Extracting Molecular Binding Relationships from Biomedical TextThomas C. RINDFLESCHNational Library of Medicine8600 Rockville PikeBethesda, MD, 20894tcr@nlm.nih.govJayant V. RAJANUniversity of RochesterRochester, NY, 14620Jayant.Rajan@ mc.rochester.eduLawrence HUNTERNational Cancer Institute7550 Wisconsin AvenueBethesda, MD, 20894lhunter@nih.govAbstractARBITER is a Prolog program that extractsassertions about macromolecular bindingrelationships from biomedical text.
We de-scribe the domain knowledge and the under-specified linguistic analyses that support heidentification of these predications.
Afterdiscussing a formal evaluation ofARBITER, we report on its application to491,000 MEDLINE ~ abstracts, duringwhich almost 25,000 binding relationshipssuitable for entry into a database of macro-molecular function were extracted.IntroductionFar more scientific information exists in the lit-erature than in any structured atabase.
Con-venient access to this information could signifi-cantly benefit research activities in variousfields.
The emerging technology of informationextraction (Appelt and Israel 1997, Hearst 1999)provides a means of gaining access to this in-formation.
In this paper we report on a project oextract biomolecular data from biomedical text.We concentrate on molecular binding affinity,which provides a strong indication of macro-molecular function and is a core phenomenon inmolecular biology.
Our ultimate goal is to auto-matically construct a database of binding rela-tionships asserted in MEDLINE citations.The National Library of Medicine'sMEDLINE textual database is an online reposi-tory of more than 10 million citations from thebiomedical literature.
All citations contain thetitle of the corresponding article along with otherbibliographic information.
In addition, a largenumber of citations contain author-supplied ab-stracts.
Initial studies indicate that there are ap-proximately 500,000 MEDLINE citations rele-vant to molecular binding affinity.Our decision to apply information extractiontechnology to binding relationships was guidednot only by the biological importance of thisphenomenon but also by the relatively straight-forward syntactic uing of binding predicationsin text.
The inflectional forms of a single verb,bind, indicate this relationship n the vast major-ity of cases, and our initial work is limited tothese instances.
For example, our goal in thisproject is to extract he binding predications in(2) from the text in (1).
(1) CC chemokine r ceptor 1 (CCR1) is ex-pressed in neutrophils, monocytes, lympho-cytes, and eosinophils, and binds the leuko-cyte chemoattractant d hematopoiesisregulator macrophage inflammatory protein(MIP)- 1 alpha, as well as several related CCchemokines.
(2) <CC chemokine receptor 1>BINDS<leukocyte chemoattractant><CC chemokine r ceptor 1>BINDS<hematopoiesis regulator macrophageinflammatory protein- 1alpha><CC chemokine r ceptor 1>BINDS<related CC chemokine>Considerable interest in information extrac-tion has concentrated on identifying named enti-ties in text pertaining to current events (for ex-ample, Wacholder et al 1997, Voorhees andHarman 1998, and MUC-7); however, severalrecent efforts have been directed at biomoleculardata (Blaschke t al.
1999, Craven and Kumlien1999, and Rindflesch et al 2000, for example).The overall goal is to transform the information188encoded in text into a more readily accessibletbrmat, typically a template with slots named forthe participants in the scenario of interest.
Thetemplate for molecular binding can be thought ofas a simple predication with predicate "bind"and two arguments which participate (sym-metrically) in the relationship: BINDS(<X>,<Y>).Various strategies, both linguistic and statis-tical, have been used in information extractionefforts.
We introduce a Prolog program calledARBITER (Assess and Retrieve Binding Termi-nology) that takes advantage of an existing do-main knowledge source and relies on syntacticcues provided by a partial parser in order toidentify and extract binding relations from text.We discuss the syntactic processing used andthen report on a formal evaluation of ARBITERagainst a test collection of 116 MEDLINE cita-tions in which the binding relations were markedby hand.
Finally, we provide a brief overview ofthe results of applying ARBITER to the 500,000MEDLINE citations discussing molecular bind-ing affinity.1 Extracting Binding Relationshipsfrom TextOur strategy for extracting binding relationshipsfrom text divides the task into two phases: Dur-ing the first phase we identify all potentialbinding arguments, and then in the second phasewe extract just those binding terms which are as-serted in the text as participating in a particularbinding predication.
In support of this proces-sing, we rely on the linguistic and domainknowledge contained in the National Library ofMedicine's Unified Medical Language System ~(UMLS ?)
as well an existing tool, theSPECIALIST minimal commitment parser (Ar-onson et al 1994).The UMLS (Humphreys et al 1998) consistsof several knowledge sources applicable in thebiomedical domain: the Metathesaums, Seman-tic Network, and SPECIALIST Lexicon(McCray et al 1994).
The Metathesaurus wasconstructed from more than forty controlled vo-cabularies and contains more than 620,000 bio-medical concepts.
The characteristic of theMetathesaurus most relevant for this project isthat each concept is associated with a semantictype that categorizes the concept into subareas ofbiology or medicine.
Examples pertinent tobinding terminology include the semantic types'Amino Acid, Peptide, or Protein' and 'Nucleo-tide Sequence'.
The SPECIALIST Lexicon(with associated lexical access tools) suppliessyntactic information for a large compilation ofbiomedical and general English terms.The SPECIALIST minimal commitmentparser relies on the SPECIALIST Lexicon aswell as the Xerox stochastic tagger (Cutting etal.
1992).
The output produced is in the traditionof partial parsing (Hindle 1983, McDonald1992, Weischedel et al 1993) and concentrateson the simple noun phrase, what Weischedel etal.
(1993) call the "core noun phrase," that is anoun phrase with no modification to the right ofthe head.
Several approaches provide similaroutput based on statistics (Church 1988, Zhai1997, for example), a finite-state machine (Ait-Mokhtar and Chanod 1997), or a hybrid ap-proach combining statistics and linguistic rules(Voutilainen and Padro 1997).The SPECIALIST parser is based on the no-tion of barrier words (Tersmette t al.
1988),which indicate boundaries between phrases.
Af-ter lexical look-up and resolution of category la-bel ambiguity by the Xerox tagger, complemen-tizers, conjunctions, modals, prepositions, andverbs are marked as boundaries.
Subsequently,boundaries are considered to open a new phrase(and close the preceding phrase).
Any phrasecontaining a noun is considered to be a (simple)noun phrase, and in such a phrase, the right-mostnoun is labeled as the head, and all other items(other than determiners) are labeled as modifi-ers.
An example of the output from theSPECIALIST parser is given below in (4).
Thepartial parse produced serves as the basis for thefirst phase of extraction of binding relationships,namely the identification of those simple nounphrases acting as potential binding arguments(referred to as "binding terms").1.1 Identifying binding terminologyIn order to identify binding terminology in textwe rely on the approach discussed in (Rindfieschet al 1999).
Text with locally-defined acronymsexpanded is submitted to the Xerox tagger andthe SPECIALIST parser.
Subsequent processingconcentrates on the heads of simple noun1RQ 189phrases and proceeds in a series of cascadedsteps that depend on existing domain knowledgeas well as several small, special-purpose re-sources in order to determine whether each nounphrase encountered is to be considered a bindingterm.As the first step in the process, an existingprogram, MetaMap, (Aronson et al 1994) at-tempts to map each simple noun phrase to a con-cept in the UMLS Metathesaurus.
The semantictype for concepts corresponding to successfullymapped noun phrases is then checked against asmall subset of UMLS semantic types referringto bindable entities, such as 'Amino Acid, Pep-tide, or Protein', 'Nucleotide Sequence', 'Car-bohydrate', 'Cell', and 'Virus'.
For conceptswith a semantic type in this set, the correspond-ing noun phrase is considered to be a bindingterm.The heads of noun phrases that do not map toa concept in the Metathesaurus are tested againsta small set of general "binding words," whichoften indicate that the noun phrase in which theyappear is a binding term.
The set of bindingwords includes such nouns as cleft, groove,membrane, ligand, motif, receptor, domain, ele-ment, and molecule.The head of a noun phrase that did not sub-mit to the preceding steps is examined to seewhether it adheres to the morphologic shape of anormal English word.
In this context such aword is often an acronym not defined locallyand indicates the presence of a binding term(Fukuda et al 1998).
A normal English word hasat least one vowel and no digits, and a text tokenthat contains at least one letter and is not a nor-real English word functions as a binding word inthis context.The final step in identifying binding terms isto join contiguous imple noun phrases qualify-ing as binding terms into a single macro-nounphrase.
Rindflesch et al (1999) use the term"macro-noun phrase" to refer to structures thatinclude reduced relative clauses (commonly in-troduced by prepositions or participles) as wellas appositives.
Two binding terms joined by aform of be are also treated as though theyformed a macro-noun phrase, as in Jel42 is anIgG which binds ...The results of identifying binding terms (andthus potential binding arguments) are given in(4) for the sentence in (3).
In (4) evidence sup-porting identification as a binding term is givenin braces.
Note that in the underspecified syn-tactic analysis, prepositional phrases are treatedas (simple) noun phrases that have a prepositionas their first member.
(3) Je142 is an IgG which binds to the smallbacterial protein, HPr and the structure of thecomplex is known at high resolution.
(4) \[binding_term(\[ head(Je142)\],{ Morphology Shape Rule }\[aux0s)\],\[det(an), head(IgG)\] { Metathesaurus }),\[pron(which)\],\[verb(binds)\],binding_term(\[prep(to), det(the),mod(small), mod(bacterial), head(protein),punc(,)\], { Metathesaurus }\[head(HPr)\] { Morphology Shape Rule }),\[conj(and)\],\[det(the), head(structure)I,binding_term(\[prep(of), det(the),head(complex)\] { General Binding Word }),\[aux(is)\],\[verb(known)\],\[prep(at), mod(high), head(resolution),punc(.
)l\]1.2 Identifying binding terms asarguments of relationshipsBefore addressing the strategy for determiningthe arguments of binding predications, we dis-cuss the general treatment of macro-nounphrases during the second part of the processing.Although ARBITER attempts to recover com-plete macro-noun phrases during the first phase,only the most specific (and biologically useful)part of a macro-noun phrase is recovered uringthe extraction of binding predications.
Terms re-ferring to specific molecules are more usefulthan those referring to general classes of bind-able entities, such as receptor, ligand, protein,or molecule.
The syntactic head of a macro-nounphrase (the first simple noun phrase in the list) isnot always the most specific or most useful termin the construction.l_qt~ 190The Specificity Rule for determining themost specific part of the list of simple bindingterms constituting a macro-noun phrase choosesthe first simple term in the list which has eitherof the following two characteristics: a) The headwas identified by the Morphology Shape Rule.b) The noun phrase maps to a UMLS concepthaving one of the following semantic types:'Amino Acid, Peptide, or Protein', 'NucleicAcid, Nucleoside, or Nucleotide', 'NucleotideSequence', 'Immunologic Factor', or 'Gene orGenome'.
For example, in (5), the second simpleterm, TNF-alpha promoter, maps to the Meta-thesaurus with semantic type 'Nucleotide Se-quence' and is thus considered to be the mostspecific term in this complex-noun phrase.
(5) binding_term(\[transcriptionally active kappaB motifs\],\[in the TNF-alpha promoter\],\[in normal cells\])In identifying binding terms as arguments ofa complete binding predication, as indicatedabove, we examine only those binding relationscued by some form of the verb bind (bind, binds,bound, and binding).
The list of minimal syntac-tic phrases constituting the partial parse of theinput sentence is examined from left to right; foreach occurrence of a form of binds, the twobinding terms serving as arguments are thensought.
(During the tagging process, we forcebind, binds, and bound to be labeled as "verb,"and binding as "noun.
")A partial analysis of negation and coor-dination is undertaken by ARBITER, but ana-phora resolution and a syntactic treatment of re-lativization are not attempted.
With the addedconstraint hat a binding argument must havebeen identified as a binding term based on thedomain knowledge resources used, the partialsyntactic analysis available to ARBITER sup-ports the accurate identification of a large num-ber of binding predications asserted in the re-search literature.1.2.1 Arguments of bindingIt is convenient o categorize binding pred-ications into two classes depending on whichform of bind cues the predication: a) binding andb) bind, binds, and bound.
In our test collection(discussed below), about half of the binding re-lationships asserted in the text are cued by thegerundive or participial form binding.
In thissyntactic predication, the resources availablefrom the underspecified syntactic parse servequite well as the basis for correctly identifyingthe arguments of the binding relationship.The most common argument configurationassociated with binding is for both arguments ooccur to the right, cued by prepositions, mostcommonly of and to; however, other frequentpatterns are of-by and to-by.
Another method ofargument cuing for binding is for the subject ofthe predication to function syntactically as amodifier of the head binding in the same simplenoun phrase.
The object in this instance is thencued by either of or to (to the right).
A few otherpatterns are seen and some occurrences of bind-ing do not cue a complete predication; either thesubject is missing or neither argument is expli-citly mentioned.
However, the examples in (6)fairly represent the interpretation f binding.
(6) These results uggest that 2 amino acids,Thr-340 and Ser-343, play important butdistinct roles in promoting the binding of ar-restin to rhodopsin.<arrestin>BINDS<rhodopsin>Surprisingly, arrestin binding to phospho-rylated T340E did not increase to the levelobserved for wild-type rhodopsin.<arrestirt>BINDS<phosphorylated 340e>1.2.2 Arguments of bindThe arguments of forms of bind other thanbinding invariably occur on either side of thecuing verb form.
The default strategy for iden-tifying both arguments in these instances is tochoose the closest binding term on either side ofthe verb.
In the cases we have investigated, thisstrategy works often enough to be useful for thesurface object.
However, due to predicate coor-dination as well as relativization, such a strategyoften fails to identify correctly the surface sub-ject of bind (binds or bound) when more than191one binding term precedes the verb.
We there-fore use the strategy summarized in (7) for re-covering the surface subject in such instances.
(7) When more than one binding term precedes aform of bind other than binding, choose themost specific of these binding terms as thesurface subject of the predication.
"Most specific" is determined (recursively) for aseries of binding terms in the same way that themost specific part of a complex binding term isdetermined.The input text (8) provides an example of abinding predication cued by binds in which thearguments appear (immediately) on either sideof the cuing verb.
The two macro-noun phrasesserving as potential arguments are underlined.
(8) A transcription factor, Auxin Response Fac-tor 1, that binds to tl!e sequence TGTCTC inauxin response lements was cloned fromArabidopsis by using a yeast one-hybrid sys-tem.
(9) <auxin response factor 1>BINDS<sequence tgtctc>In the extracted binding relationship in (9),the Specificity Rule chooses Auxin ResponseFactor 1 from the first macro-noun phrase be-cause it maps to the UMLS Metathesaurus withsemantic type 'Amino Acid, Peptide, or Pro-tein'.
In the second argument, the sequenceTGTCTC has a head that submits to the Mor-phology Shape Rule and hence is considered tobe more specific than auxin response lements.In (10), the Specificity Rule applies correctlyto select he surface subject of the binding pred-ication when multiple binding terms appear tothe left of the verb.
(10) Phosphatidylinositol transfer protein has asingle lipid-binding site that can reversiblybind phosphatidylinositol and phosphatidyl-choline and transfer these lipids betweenmembrane compartments in vitro.<phosphatidylinositol transfer protein>BINDS<phosphatidylcholine><phosphatidylinositol transfer protein>BINDS<phosphatidylinositol>Both Phosphatidylinositol transfer protein and asingle lipid-binding site occur to the left of bindand have been identified as binding terms by thefirst phase of processing.
However, Phos-phatidylinositol transfer protein maps to the cor-responding Metathesaurus concept with seman-tic type 'Amino Acid, Peptide, or Protein, thuscausing it to be more specific than a single lipid-binding site.
The second predication listed in(10) was correctly extracted ue to coordinationprocessing.ARBITER pursues limited coordinationidentification i the spirit of Agarwal and Bog-gess (1992) and Rindflesch (1995).
Only bind-ing terms are considered as candidates for coor-dination.
For each conjunction encountered, thephrase immediately tothe right is examined; if itis a binding term, all contiguous binding termsoccurring immediately tothe left of the conjunctare considered to be coordinate with the rightconjunct.
Coordination inside the simple nounphrase is not considered, and therefore structuressuch as The TCR alpha beta or -gamma deltachains are not recognized.
Nonetheless, as in-dicated in (11), this limited approach to nounphrase coordination is often effective.
(11) Purified recombinant NC 1, like authenticNC 1, also bound specifically to fibronectin,collagen type I, and a laminin 5/6 complex.<authentic ncl>BINDS<laminin 5 / 6 complex><authentic ncl >BINDS<collagen type i><authentic ncl>BINDS<fibronectin><purified recombinant cl >BINDS<laminin 5 / 6 complex><purified recombinant cl>BINDS<collagen type i><purified recombinant cl >BINDS<fibronectin>192Although the particular underspecified syn-tactic analysis used in the identification ofbinding predications in the biomedical researchliterature is limited in several important ways, itappears adequate to enable this project with auseful level of effectiveness, and this is sup-ported by evaluation.2 EvaluationIn order to determine ARBITER's effectiveness,the program was formally evaluated against agold standard of MEDLINE citations in whichthe binding predications asserted were markedby hand.
A search of MEDLINE limited to onemonth (June 1997) and based on the text words((bind, binds, binding, or bound) and (protein orproteins)) retrieved 116 citations with 1,141 sen-tences; of these, 346 contained some form of theverb bind.
260 binding predications were identi-fied in the binding sentences.
(The binding sen-tences also contained 2,025 simple nounphrases, 1,179 of which were marked as beingbinding terms.
)In processing this test collection, ARBITERextracted 181 binding predications, 132 of whichwere correct.
Since ARBITER missed 128marked binding predications (false negatives)and incorrectly identified 49 such relationships,recall and precision as measures of effectivenessare 51% and 73%, respectively.In comparing ARBITER's output against thatmarked in the gold standard, fairly stringentmatching criteria were used.
A binding predica-tion extracted from a particular sentence byARBITER had to appear in that same sentencein the gold standard (not just the same citation)in order to be counted as correct.
Further, in thegold standard, only the most specific componentof a macro-noun phrase was marked as being thecorrect argument for a particular binding predi-cation.
If ARBITER retrieved any other part of amacro-noun phrase in identifying the argumentsof that predication, it was assessed as an error.A large number of ARBITER errors are dueto two phenomena: difficulties in correctly iden-tifying binding terms during the first phase ofprocessing and syntactic omplexity confound-ing argument identification during the secondphase.
An example of the first error type is seenin (12), where the failure to identify ran as abinding term caused ARBITER to miss the cor-rect binding predication asserted in this sentence(indicated by "-FN->").
(12) Requirement of guanosine triphosphate-bound ran for signal-mediated nuclear pro-tein export.-FN-> <guanosine triphosphate>BINDS<Ran>-FP-> < guanosine triphosphate>BINDS<signal - mediate nuclear proteinexport>This error then led to the false positive error("-FP->") when the program wrongly interpretedthe next noun phrase in the sentence (signal-mediated nuclear protein export) as the secondargument in this predication.The interaction of coordination and negationin (13) caused ARBITER to partially misinter-pret the binding predications in this sentence.
(13) The nonvisual arrestins, beta-arrestin a darrestin3, but not visual arrestin, bind spe-cifically to a glutathione S-transferase- clath-rin terminal domain fusion protein.<arrestin3>BINDS<glutathione s-transferase-clathrin terminaldomain fusion protein><beta rrestin>BINDS<glutathione s-transferase-clathrin terminaldomain fusion protein><nonvisual rrestin>BINDS<glutathione s-transferase-clathrin terminaldomain fusion protein>-FN-> <visual arrestin>DOES_NOT_BIND<glutathione s-transferase-clathrinterminal domain fusion protein>Although some of the coordination i  (13)was processed properly, resulting in the relation-ships listed, the negated coordination associatedwith the noun phrase visual arrestin was not in-terpreted correctly, and thus ARBITER failed to1Q"2  193identify the predication marked as a false nega-tive.3 ApplicationAs an initial application of ARBITER we ran theprogram on 491,356 MEDLINE citations, whichwere retrieved using the same search strategy re-sponsible for the gold standard.
During this run,331,777 sentences in 192,997 citations produced419,782 total binding assertions.
Extrapolatingfrom the gold standard evaluation, we assumethat this is about half of the total binding predi-cations asserted in the citations processed andthat somewhat less than three quarters of thoseextracted are correct.The initial list of 419,982 binding triples rep-resents what ARBITER determined was assertedin the text being processed.
Many of these as-sertions, such as those in (14), while correct, aretoo general to be useful.
(14) <receptors>BINDS<Peptides><Erythrocytes>BINDS<Antibodies>Further processing on ARBITER raw outputextracted specific protein names and genomicstructures and reduced the number of suchbinding predications to 345,706.
From thesemore specific binding predication, we began theconstruction of a database containing bindingrelations asserted in the literature.
More detaileddiscussion of this database can be found in (Ra-jan et al in prep); however, here we give an ini-tial description of its characteristics.We submitted the 345,706 more specificARBITER binding predications to a search inGenBank (Benson et al 1998) and determinedthat 106,193 referred to a GenBank entry.
Thenumber of Genbank entries with at least onebinding assertion is 11,617.
Preliminary resultsindicate that the database we are constructingwill have some of the following characteristics:?
10,769 bindings between two distinct Gen-bank entries (5,569 unique)?
875 more binding assertions found betweenan entry and a specific DNA sequence?
27,345 bindings between a Genbank entryand a UMLS Metathesaurus concept?
5,569 unique relationships among pairs ofentries (involving 11,617 unique entries)ConclusionThe cooperation of structured omain knowl-edge and underspecified syntactic analysis en-ables the extraction of macromolecular bindingrelationships from the research literature.
Al-though our implementation is domain-specific,the underlying principles are amenable tobroader applicability.ARBITER makes a distinction between firstlabeling binding terms and then identifying cer-tain of these terms as arguments in a bindingpredication.
The first phase of this processing isdependent on biomedical domain knowledge ac-cessible from the UMLS.
Applying the tech-niques we propose in other areas would requireat least a minimum of semantic lassification ofthe concepts involved.
General, automated tech-niques that could supply this requirement are be-coming increasingly available (Morin and Jac-quemin 1999, for example).Although we concentrated onthe inflectionalforms of a single verb, the principles we invoketo support argument identification during thesecond phase of processing apply generally toEnglish predication encoding strategies (with aminimum of effort necessary to address preposi-tional cuing of gerundive arguments for specificverbs).
The approach to noun phrase coordina-tion also applies generally, so long as hy-pernymic lassification is available for the headsof the potential conjuncts.AcknowledgementsWe are grateful to John Wilbur for assistancewith accessing GenBank, to Alan Aronson formodifications to MetaMap, and to James Morkfor providing the distributed system that sup-ported the processing of MEDLINE citations.ReferencesAgaxwal R. and Boggess L. (1992) A simple but use-ful approach to conjunct identification.
Proceed-ings of the 30th Annual Meeting of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics, pp.
15-21.194Ait-Mokhtar S. and Chanod J.-P. (1997) Incrementalfinite-state parsing.
Proceedings of the Fifth Con-ference on Applied Natural Language Processing,pp.
72-9.Appelt D. E. and Israel D. (1997) Tutorial on build-ing information extraction systems.
Fifth Confer-ence on Applied Natural Language Processing.Aronson A. R., Rindflesch T. C., and Browne A. C.(1994) Exploiting a large thesaurus for informa-tion retrieval.
Proceedings of RIAO 94, pp.
197-216.Benson D. A., Boguski M. S., Lipman D. J., Ostell J.,and Ouelette B. F. (1998) GenBank.
Nucleic AcidsResearch, 26/1, pp.
1-7.Blaschke C., Andrade M. A., Ouzounis C., and Va-lencia A.
(1999) Automatic extraction of biologicalinformation from scientific text: protein-proteininteractions.
Intelligent Systems for Molecular Bi-ology (ISMB), 7, pp.
60-7.Church K. W. (1988) A stochastic parts program andnoun phrase parser for unrestricted text.
Proceed-ings of the Second Conference on Applied NaturalLanguage Processing, pp.
136-143.Craven M. and Kumlien J.
(1999) Constructing bio-logical knowledge bases by extracting informationfrom text sources.
Intelligent Systems for Molecu-lar Biology (ISMB), 7, pp.
77-86.Cutting D. R., Kupiec J., Pedersen J. O., and Sibun P.(1992) A practical part-of-speech tagger.
Pro-ceedings of the Third Conference on Applied Natu-ral Language Processing.Fukuda F., Tsunoda T., Tamura A., and Takagi T.(1998) Toward information extraction: Identifyingprotein names from biological papers.
PacificSymposium on Biocomputing (PSB), 3, pp.
705-16.Hearst M. A.
(1999) Untangling text data mining.Proceedings of the 37th Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, pp.
3-10.Hindle D. (1983) Deterministic parsing of syntacticnon-fluencies.
Proceedings of the 21st AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, pp.
123-8.Humphreys B. L., Lindberg D. A.
B., Schoolman H.M., and Barnett G. O.
(1998) The Unified Medicallanguage System: An informatics research collabo-ration.
Journal of the American Medical Informat-ics Association, 5/1, pp.
1-13.McCray A. T., Srinivasan S., and Browne A. C.(1994) Lexical methods for managing variation inbiomedical terminologies.
Proceedings of the 18thAnnual Symposium on Computer Applications inMedical Care, pp.
235-9.McDonald D. D. (1992) Robust partial parsingthrough incremental, multi-algorithm processing.In "Text-Based Intelligent Systems," P. S.
Jacobs,ed., pp.
83-99.Morin E. and Jacquemin C. Projecting corpus-basedsemantic links on a thesaurus.
Proceedings of the37th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics, pp.
389-96.MUC-7.
Message Understanding Conference Pro-ceedings, http://www.muc.saic.com.Rajan J. V., Hunter L., and Rindflesch T. C.
(Inprep.)
Mining MEDLINE.Rindflesch T. C. (1995) Integrating natural anguageprocessing and biomedical domain knowledge forincreased information retrieval effectiveness.
Pro-ceedings of the 5th Annual Dual-Use Technologiesand Applications Conference, pp.
260-5.Rindflesch T. C., Hunter L., and Aronson A. R.(1999) Mining molecular binding terminology frombiomedical text.
Proceedings of the AMIA AnnualSymposium, pp.
127-131.Rindflesch T. C., Tanabe L., Weinstein J. N., andHunter L. (2000) EDGAR: Extraction of drug, s,genes and relations from the biomedical literature.Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing (PSB), 5, pp.514-25.Tersmette K. W. F., Scott A. F., Moore G.W., Mathe-son N. W., and Miller R. E. (1988) Barrier wordmethod for detecting molecular biology multipleword terms.
Proceedings of the 12th Annual Sym-posium on Computer Applications in MedicalCare, pp.
207- 11.Voorhees E. M. and Harman D. K. (1998) The Sev-enth Text Retrieval Conference.Vourtilainen A. and Padro L. (1997) Developing ahybrid NP parser.
Proceedings of the Fifth Confer-ence on Applied Natural Language Processing, pp.80-7.Wacholder N., Ravin Y., and Choi M. (1997) Disam-biguation of proper names in text.
Proceedings ofthe Fifth Conference on Applied Natural LanguageProcessing, pp.
202-208.Weischedel R., Meteer M., Schwartz R., RamshawL., and Palmucci J.
(1993) Coping with ambiguityand unknown words through probabilistic models.Computational Linguistics, 19/2, pp.
359-382.Zhai C. (1997) Fast statistical parsing of nounphrases for document indexing.
Proceedings of theFifth Conference on Applied Natural LanguageProcessing, pp.
312-31.195
