Linguistic Knowledge can Improve Information RetrievalWi l l iam A .
Woods  and Lawrence  A .
Bookman*  and Ann Houston  andRober t  J .
Kuhns  and Pau l  Mar t in  and Stephen GreenSun Microsystems Laborator ies1 Network DriveBur l ington,  MA 01803{Wi l l iam.Woods ,Ann.Houston,Robert .Kuhns ,Pau l .Mart in ,Stephen.Green}@east .sun.comAbstractThis paper describes the results of some experimentsusing a new approach to information access thatcombines techniques from natural language process-ing and knowledge representation with a penalty-based technique for relevance estimation and passageretrieval.
Unlike many attempts to combine naturallanguage processing with information retrieval, theseresults how substantial benefit from using linguisticknowledge.1 In t roduct ionAn online information seeker often fails to find whatis wanted because the words used in the request aredifferent from the words used in the relevant mate-rial.
Moreover, the searcher usually spends a signifi-cant amount of time reading retrieved material in or-der to determine whether it contains the informationsought.
To address these problems, a system hasbeen developed at Sun Microsystems Laboratories(Ambroziak and Woods, 1998) that uses techniquesfrom natural language processing and knowledgerepresentation, with a technique for dynamic pas-sage selection and scoring, to significantly improveretrieval performance.
This system is able to locatespecific passages in the indexed material where therequested information appears to be, and to scorethose passages with a penalty-based score that ishighly correlated with the likelihood that they con-tain relevant information.
This ability, which we call"Precision Content Retrieval" is achieved by com-bining a system for Conceptual Indexing with analgorithm for Relaxation-Ranking Specific PassageRetrieval.In this paper, we show how linguistic knowledge isused to improve search effectiveness in this system.This is of particular interest, since many previous at-tempts to use linguistic knowledge to improve infor-mation retrieval have met with little or mixed suc-cess (Fagan, 1989; Lewis and Sparck Jones, 1996;Sparck Jones, 1998; Varile and Zampolli, 1997;Voorhees, 1993; Mandala et al, 1999) (but see thelatter for some successes as well).
* Lawrence  Bookman is now at  Tor rent  Systems,  Inc.2 Conceptua l  IndexingThe conceptual indexing and retrieval system usedfor these experiments automatically extracts wordsand phrases from unrestricted text and organizesthem into a semantic network that integrates syn-tactic, semantic, and morphological relationships.The resulting conceptual taxonomy (Woods, 1997) isused by a specific passage-retrieval algorithm to dealwith many paraphrase r lationships and to find spe-cific passages of text where the information sought islikely to occur.
It uses a lexicon containing syntac-tic, semantic, and morphological information aboutwords, word senses, and phrases to provide a basesource of semantic and morphological relationshipsthat are used to organize the taxonomy.
In addi-tion, it uses an extensive system of knowledge-basedmorphological rules and functions to analyze wordsthat are not already in its lexicon, in order to con-struct new lexical entries for previously unknownwords (Woods, 2000).
In addition to rules for han-dling derived and inflected forms of known words,the system includes rules for lexical compounds andrules that are capable of making reasonable guessesfor totally unknown words.A pilot version of this indexing and retrievalsystem, implemented in Lisp, uses a collection ofapproximately 1200 knowledge-based morphologi-cal rules to extend a core lexicon of approximately39,000 words to give coverage that exceeds that of anEnglish lexicon of more than 80,000 base forms (or150,000 base plus inflected forms).
Later versionsof the conceptual indexing and retrieval system, im-plemented in C++, use a lexicon of approximately150,000 word forms that is automatically generatedby the Lisp-based morphological nalysis from itscore lexicon and an input word list.
The base lexiconis extended further by an extensive name dictionaryand by further morphological nalysis of unknownwords at indexing time.
This paper will describesome experiments u ing several versions of this sys-tem.
In particular, it will focus on the role that thelinguistic knowledge sources play in its operation.The lexicon used by the conceptual indexing sys-tem contains yntactic information that can be used262for the analysis of phrases, as well as morphologi-cal and semantic information that is used to relatemore specific concepts to more general concepts inthe conceptual taxonomy.
This information is inte-grated into the conceptual taxonomy by consideringbase forms of words to subsume their derived andinflected forms ("root subsumption") and more gen-eral terms to subsume more specific terms.
The sys-tem uses these relationships as the basis for infer-ring subsumption relationships between more gen-eral phrases and more specific phrases according tothe intensional subsumption logic of Woods (Woods,1991).The largest base lexicon used by this system cur-rently contains semantic subsumption informationfor something in excess of 15,000 words.
This infor-mation consists of basic "kind of" and "instance of"information such as the fact that book is a kind ofdocument and washing is a kind of cleaning.
Thelexicon also records morphological roots and affixesfor words that are derived or inflected forms of otherwords, and information about different word sensesand their interrelationships.
For example, the con-ceptual indexing system is able to categorize becomesblack as a kind of color change because becomes i  aninflected form of become, become is a kind of change,and black is a color.
Similarly, color disruption isrecognized as a kind of color change, because thesystem recognizes disruption as a derived form ofdisrupt, which is known in the lexicon to be a kindof damage, which is known to be a kind of change.When using root subsumption as a technique forinformation retrieval, it is important o have a corelexicon that knows correct morphological analysesfor words that the rules would otherwise analyze in-correctly.
For example, the following are some ex-amples of words that could be analyzed incorrectly ifthe correct interpretations were not specified in thelexicon:de legate  (de4.1eg4.ate) take the legs fromcaress (car + ess) female carcashier  (cashy 4. er) more wealthydaredev i l  (dared + evil) serious risklacerate (lace 4. rate) speed of tattingpant ry  (pant + ry) heavy breathingp igeon (pig + eon) the age of peccariesratify (rat 4- ify) infest with rodentsin fant ry  (infant + ry) childish behaviorAlthough they are not always as humorous as theabove examples, there are over 3,000 words in thecore lexicon of 39,000 English words that would re-ceive false morphological nalyses like the above ex-amples, if the words were not already in the lexicon.3 Re laxat ion  Rank ing  and  Spec i f i cPassage  Ret r ieva lThe system we are evaluating uses a technique called"relaxation ranking" to find specific passages whereas many as possible of the different elements ofa query occur near each other, preferably in thesame form and word order and preferably closertogether.
Such passages are ranked by a penaltyscore that measures the degree of deviation from anexact match of the requested phrase, with smallerpenalties being preferred.
Differences in morpholog-ical form and formal subsumption of index termsby query terms introduce small penalties, while in-tervening words, unexplained permutations of wordorder, and crossing sentence boundaries introducemore significant penalties.
Elements of a query thatcannot be found nearby introduce substantial penal-ties that depend on the syntactic ategories of themissing words.When the conceptual indexing system is presentedwith a query, the relaxation-ranking retrieval algo-rithm searches through the conceptual taxonomy forappropriately related concepts and uses the posi-tions of those concepts in the indexed material tofind specific passages that are likely to address theinformation eeds of the request.
This search canfind relationships from base forms of words to de-rived forms and from more general terms to morespecific terms, by following paths in the conceptualtaxonomy.For example, the following is a passage retrievedby this system, when applied to the UNIX ?
operat-ing system online documentation (the "man pages"):Query: print a message from the mail tool6.
-2.84 print mail mail mai l toolPrint sends copies of all the selected mailitems to your default printer.
If there areno selected items, mailtool sends copies ofthose items you axe currently...The indicated passage is ranked 6th in a returnedlist of found passages, indicated by the 6 in the abovedisplay.
The number -2.84 is the penalty score as-signed to the passage, and the subsequent wordsprint, mail, mail, and mailtool indicate the wordsin the text that are matched to the correspondingcontent words in the input query.
In this case, printis matched to print, message to mail, mail to mail,and tool to mailtool, respectively.
This is followedby the content of the actual passage located.
Theinformation provided in these hit displays gives theinformation seeker a clear idea of why the passagewas retrieved and enables the searcher to quicklyskip down the hit list with little time spent lookingat irrelevant passages.
In this case, it was easy to263identify that the 6th ranked hit was the best one andcontained the relevant information.The retrieval of this passage involved use of a se-mantic subsumption relationship to match messageto mail, because the lexical entry for mail recordedthat it was a kind of message.
It used a morpho-logical root subsumption to match tool to mailtoolbecause the morphological nalyzer analyzed the un-known word mailtool as a compound of mail and tooland recorded that its root was tool and that it wasa kind of tool modified by mail.
Taking away theability to morphologically analyze unknown wordswould have blocked the retrieval of this passage,as would eliminating the lexical subsumption entrythat recorded mail as a kind of message.Like other approaches to passage retrieval(Kaszkiel and Zobel, 1997; Salton et al, 1993;Callan, 1994), the relaxation-ranking retrieval algo-rithm identifies relevant passages rather than simplyidentifying whole documents.
However, unlike ap-proaches that involve segmenting the material intoparagraphs or other small passages before indexing,this algorithm dynamically constructs relevant pas-sages in response to requests.
When responding toa request, it uses information i  the index about po-sitions of concepts in the text to identify relevantpassages.
In response to a single request, identifiedpassages may range in size from a single word orphrase to several sentences or paragraphs, depend-ing on how much context is required to capture thevarious elements of the request.In a user interface to the specific passage retrievalsystem, retrieved passages are reported to the userin increasing order of penalty, together with the ranknumber, penalty score, information about which tar-get terms match the corresponding query terms, andthe content of the identified passage with some sur-rounding context as illustrated above.
In one versionof this technology, results are presented in a hyper-text interface that allows the user to click on anyof the presented items to see that passage in its en-tire context in the source document.
In addition,the user can be presented with a display of portionsof the conceptual taxonomy related to the terms inthe request.
This frequently reveals useful gener-alizations of the request hat would find additionalrelevant information, and it also conveys an under-standing of what concepts have been found in thematerial that will be matched by the query terms.For example, in one experiment, searching the on-line documentation for the Emacs text editor, therequest jump to end of file resulted in feedback show-ing that jump was classified as a kind of move in theconceptual taxonomy.
This led to a reformulatedrequest, move to end of file, which successfully re-trieved the passage 9o to end of buffer.4 Experimental Eva luat ionIn order to evaluate the effectiveness of the abovetechniques, a set of 90 queries was collected froma naive user of the UNIX operating system, 84 ofwhich could be answered from the online documen-tation known as the man pages.
A set of "correct"answers for each of these 84 queries was manually de-termined by an independent UNIX operating systemexpert, and a snapshot of the man pages collectionwas captured and indexed for retrieval.
In orderto compare this methodology with classical docu-ment retrieval techniques, we assign a ranking scoreto each document equal to the ra~king score of thebest ranked passage that it contains.In rating the performance of a given method, wecompute average recall and precision values at 10retrieved ocuments, and we also compute a "suc-cess rate" which is simply the percentage of queriesfor which an acceptable answer occurs in the topten hits.
The success rate is the principal factoron which we base our evaluations, ince for this ap-plication, the user is not interested in subsequentanswers once an acceptable answer has been found,and finding one answer for each of two requests i  asubstantially better esult than finding two answersto one request and none for another.These experiments were conducted using an ex-perimental retrieval system that combined a Lisp-based language processing stage with a C++ im-plementation of a conceptual indexer.
The linguis-tic knowledge sources used in these experiments in-cluded a core lexicon of approximately 18,000 words,a substantial set of morphological rules, and spe-cialized morphological algorithms covering inflec-tions, prefixes, suffixes, lexical compounding, anda variety of special forms, including numbers, ordi-nals, Roman numerals, dates, phone numbers, andacronyms.
In addition, they made use of a lexicalsubsumption taxonomy of approximately 3000 lex-ical subsumption relations, and a small set of se-mantic entailment axioms (e.g., display entails see,but is not a kind of see).
This system is describedin (Woods, 1997).
The database was a snapshot ofthe local man pages (frozen at the time of the ex-periment so that it wouldn't change during the ex-periment), consisting of approximately 1800 files ofvarying lengths and constituting a total of approxi-mately 10 megabytes of text.Table 1 shows the results of comparing three ver-sions of this technology with a textbook implementa-tion of the standard tfid\] algorithm (Salton, 1989)and with the SearchItWMsearch application devel-oped at Sun Microsystems, Inc., which combines a264Table 1: A comparison of different retrieval techniques.SystemtfidfSearchIt systemRecall IIw/o morphw/o knowledgeSuccess Rate28.6%44.0%60.7%50.0%42.9%Recall(10 docs)14.8%28.5%38.6%not measurednot measuredPrecision(10 docs)2.9%7.4%7.3%not measurednot measuredsimple morphological query expansion with a state-of-the-art commercial search engine.
In the table,Recall II refers to the full conceptual indexing andsearch system with all of its knowledge sources andrules.
The line labeled "w/o morph" refers to thissystem with its dynamic morphological rules turnedoff, and the line labeled "w/o knowledge" refers tothis system with all of its knowledge sources andrules turned off.
The table presents the successrate and the measured recall and precision valuesfor 10 retrieved ocuments.
We measured recall andprecision at the 10 document level because inter-nal studies of searching behavior had shown thatusers tended to give up if an answer was not foundin the first ten ranked hits.
We measured successrate, rather than recall and precision, for our ab-lation studies, because standard recall and precisionmeasures are not sensitive to the distinction betweenfinding multiple answers to a single request versusfinding at least one answer for more requests.5 D iscuss ionTable 1 shows that for this task, the relaxation-ranking passage retrieval algorithm without its sup-plementary knowledge sources (Recall II w/o knowl-edge) is roughly comparable in performance (42.9%versus 44.0% success rate) to a state-of-the-art com-mercial search engine (SearchIt) at the pure docu-ment retrieval task (neglecting the added benefit oflocating the specific passages).
Adding the knowl-edge in the core lexicon (which includes morpho-logical relationships, emantic subsumption axioms,and entailment relationships), but without morpho-logical analysis of unknown words (Recall II w/omorph), significantly improves these results (from42.9% to 50.0%).
Further adding the morphologi-cal analysis capability that automatically analyzesunknown words (deriving additional morphologicalrelationships and some semantic subsumption rela-tionships) significantly improves that result (from50.0% to 60.7%).
In contrast, we found that addingthe same semantic subsumption relationships to thecommercial search engine, using its provided the-saurus capability degraded its results, and resultswere still degraded when we added only those factsthat we knew would help find relevant documents.It turned out that the additional relevant documentsfound were more than offset by additional irrelevantdocuments hat were also ranked more highly.6 Anecdota l  Eva luat ion  o f  Spec i f i cPassage  Ret r ieva l  Benef i t sAs mentioned above, comparing the relaxation-ranking algorithm with document retrieval systemsmeasures only a part of the benefit of the specificpassage retrieval methodology.
Fully evaluating thequality and ranking of the retrieved passages in-volves a great many subtleties.
However, two in-formal evaluations have been conducted that :shedsome light on the benefits.The first of these was a pilot study of the tech-nology at a telecommunications company.
In thatstudy, one user found that she could use a singlequery to the conceptual indexing system to find bothof the items of information ecessary to complete atask that formerly required searching two separatedatabases.
The conclusion of that study was that theconcept retrieval technology performs well enough tobe useful to a person talking live with a customer.It was observed that the returned hits can be com-pared with one another easily and quickly by eye,and attention is taken directly to the relevant con-tent of a large document: The automatic indexingwas considered a plus compared with manual meth-ods of content indexing.
It was observed that an areaof great potential may be in a form of knowledgemanagement that involves organizing and providingintelligent access to small, unrelated "nuggets" oftextual knowledge that are not amenable to conven-tional database archival or categorization.A second experiment was conducted by the Hu-man Resources Webmaster of a high-tech company,an experienced user of search engines who used thistechnology to index his company's internal HR website.
He then measured the time it took him to pro-cess 15 typical HR requests, first using conventionalsearch tools that he had available, and then usingthe Conceptual Indexing technology.
In both cases,he measured the time it took him to either find theanswer or to conclude that the answer wasn't inthe indexed material.
His measured times for thetotal suite were 55 minutes using the conventional265tools and 11 minutes using the conceptual index-ing technology.
Of course, this was an uncontrolledexperiment, and there is some potential that infor-mation learned from searching with the traditionaltools (which were apparently used first) might haveprovided some benefit when using the conceptual in-dexing technology.
However, the fact that he foundthings with the latter that he did not find with theformer and the magnitude of the time difference sug-gests that there is an effect, albeit perhaps not asgreat as the measurements.
As a result of this ex-perience, he concluded that he would expect manyusers to take much longer to find materials or giveup, when using the traditional tools.
He anticipatedthat after finding some initial materials, more timewould be required, as users would end up havingto call people for additional information.
He esti-mated that users could spend up to an hour tryingto get the information they needed...having to callsomeone, wait to make contact and finally get theinformation they needed.
Using the conceptual in-dexing search engine, he expected that these timeswould be at least halved.7 Conc lus ionWe have described some experiments using lin-guistic knowledge in an information retrieval sys-tem in which passages within texts are dynami-cally found in response to a query and are scoredand ranked based on a relaxation of constraints.This is a different approach from previous meth-ods of passage retrieval and from previous attemptsto use linguistic knowledge in information retrieval.These experiments show that linguistic knowledgecan significantly improve information retrieval per-formance when incorporated into a knowledge-basedrelaxation-ranking algorithm for specific passage re-trieval.The linguistic knowledge considered here includesthe use of morphological relationships betweenwords, taxonomic relationships between concepts,and general semantic entailment relationships be-tween words and concepts.
We have shown that thecombination of these three knowledge sources cansignificantly improve performance in finding appro-priate answers to specific queries when incorporatedinto a relaxation-ranking algorithm.
It appears thatthe penalty-based relaxation-ranking algorithm fig-ures crucially in this success, since the addition ofsuch linguistic knowledge to traditional informationretrieval models typically degrades retrieval perfor-mance rather than improving it, a pattern that wasborne out in our own experiments.AcknowledgmentsMany other people have been involved in creatingthe conceptual indexing and retrieval system de-scribed here.
These include: Gary Adams, JacekAmbroziak, Cookie Callahan, Chris Colby, JimFlowers, Ellen Hays, Patrick Martin, Peter Norvig,Tony Passera, Philip Resnik, Robert Sproull, andMark Torrance.Sun, Sun Microsystems, and SearchIt are trade-marks or registered trademarks of Sun Microsys-tems, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries.UNIX is a registered trademark in the UnitedStates and other countries, exclusively licensedthrough X/Open Company, Ltd. UNIX est unemarque enregistree aux Etats-Unis et dans d'autrespays et licenci~e xclusivement par X/Open Com-pany Ltd.Re ferencesJacek Ambroziak and William A.
Woods.
1998.Natural language technology in precision contentretrieval.
In International Conference on NaturalLanguage Processing and Industrial Applications,Moncton, New Brunswick, Canada, August.www.stm.com/research/techrep/1998/abstract-69.html.Jamie P. Callan.
1994.
Passage-level vidgnce indocument retrieval.
SIGIR, pages 302-309.J.
L. Fagan.
1989.
The effectiveness of a nonsyntac-tic approach to automatic phrase indexing for doc-ument retrieval.
Journal of the American Societyfor Information Science, 40(2):115-132, March.Martin Kaszkiel and Justin Zobel.
1997.
Passageretrieval revisited.
SIGIR, pages 302-309.David D. Lewis and Karen Sparck Jones.
1996.
Nat-ural language processing for information retrieval.CACM, 39(1):92-101.Rila Mandala, Takenobu Tokunaga, and HozumiTanaka.
1999.
Combining multiple evidence fromdifferent ypes of thesaurus for query expansion.In Proceedings on the 22nd annual internationalA CM SIGIR conference on Research and develop-ment in information retrieval.
ACM-SIGIR.Gerald Salton, James Allan, and Chris Buckley.1993.
Approaches to passage retrieval in full textinformation systems.
SIGIR, pages 49-58.Gerard Salton.
1989.
Automatic Text Processing.Addison Wesley, Reading, MA.Karen Sparck Jones.
1998.
A look back and a lookforward.
SIGIR, pages 13-29.Giovanni Varile and Antonio Zampolli, editors.1997.
Survey of the State of the Art in HumanLanguage Technology.
Cambridge Univ.
Press.Ellen M. Voorhees.
1993.
Using wordnet o disam-biguate word senses for text retrieval.
In Pro-ceedings of 16th ACM SIGIR Conference.
ACM-SIG1R.William A.
Woods.
1991.
Understanding subsump-tion and taxonomy: A framework for progress.In John Sowa, editor, Principles of Semantic2ti f fNetworks: Explorations in the Representation o/Knowledge, pages 45-94.
Morgan Kaufmann, SanMateo, CA.William A.
Woods.
1997.
Conceptual indexing:A better way to organize knowledge.
TechnicalReport SMLI TR-97-61, Sun MicrosystemsLaboratories, Mountain View, CA, April.www.sun.com/research/techrep/1997/abstract-61.html.William A.
Woods.
2000.
Aggressive morphologyfor robust \]exical coverage.
In (these proceedings).267
