Arabic Morphology Generation Using a Concatenative StrategyVioletta Cavalli-SforzaCarnegie TechnologyEducation4615 Forbes AvenuePittsburgh, PA, 15213violetta@cs.cmu.eduAbdelhadi SoudiComputer Science DepartmentEcole Nationale de L'IndustrieMineraleRabat, Moroccoasoudi@enim.ac.maTeruko MitamuraLanguage TechnologiesInstituteCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA 15213teruko @cs.cmu.eduAbstractArabic inflectional morphology requiresinfixation, prefixation and suffixation,giving rise to a large space of morphologicalvariation.
In this paper we describe anapproach to reducing the complexity ofArabic morphology generation usingdiscrimination trees and transformationalrules.
By decoupling the problem of stemchanges from that of prefixes and suffixes,we gain a significant reduction in thenumber of rules required, as much as afactor of three for certain verb types.
Wefocus on hollow verbs but discuss the widerapplicability of the approach.IntroductionMorphologically, Arabic is a non-concatenativelanguage.
The basic problem with generatingArabic verbal morphology is the large number ofvariants that must be generated.
Verbal stemsare based on triliteral or quadriliteral roots (3- or4-radicals).
Stems are formed by a derivationalcombination of a root morpheme and a vowelmelody; the two are arranged according tocanonical patterns.
Roots are said tointerdigitate with patterns to form stems.
Forexample, the Arabic stem katab (he wrote) iscomposed of the morpheme ktb (notion ofwriting) and the vowel melody morpheme 'a-a'.The two are coordinated according to the patternCVCVC (C=consonant, V=vowel).There are 15 triliteral patterns, of which at least9 are in common use, and 4 much rarerquadriliteral patterns.
All these patterns undergosome stem changes with respect o voweling inthe 2 tenses (perfect and imperfect), the 2 voices(active and passive), and the 5 moods(indicative, subjunctive, jussive, imperative andenergetic).
~ The stem used in the conjugation ofthe verb may differ depending on the person,number, gender, tense, mood, and the presenceof certain root consonants.
Stem changescombine with suffixes in the perfect indicative(e.g., katab-naa 'we wrote', kutib-a 'it waswritten') and the imperative (e.g.
uktub-uu'write', plural), and with both prefixes andsuffixes for the imperfect tense in the indicative,subjunctive, and jussive moods (e.g.
ya-ktub-na'they write, feminine plural') and in theenergetic mood (e.g.
ya-ktub-unna orya-ktub-un'he certainly writes').
There are a total of 13person-number-gender combinations.
Distinctprefixes are used in the active and passive voicesin the imperfect, although in most cases thisresults in a change in the written form only ifdiacritic marks are used.
2Most previous computational treatments ofArabic morphology are based on linguisticmodels that describe Arabic in a non-concatenative way and focus primarily onanalysis.
Beesley (1991) describes a system thatanalyzes Arabic words based on Koskenniemi's1 The jussive is used in specific constructions, forexample, negation in the past with the negativeparticle tam (e.g., tam aktub 'I didn't write').
Theenergetic expresses corroboration of an action takingplace.
The indicative is common to both perfect andimperfect tenses, but the subjunctive and the jussiveare restricted to the imperfect tense.
The imperativehas a special form, and the energetic can be derivedfrom either the imperfect or the imperative.z Diacritic marks are used in Arabic languagetextbooks and occasionally in regular texts to resolveambiguous words (e.g.
to mark a passive verb use).86(1983) two-level morphology.
In Beesley(1996) the system is reworked into a finite-statelexical transducer to perform analysis andgeneration.
In two-level systems, the lexicallevel includes hort vowels that are typically notrealized on the the surface level.
Kiraz (1994)presents an analysis of Arabic morphologybased on the CV-, moraic-, and affixationalmodels.
He introduces a multi-tape two-levelmodel and a formalism where three tapes areused for the lexical level (root, pattern, andvocalization) and one tape for the surface level.In this paper, we propose a computationalapproach that applies a concatenative treatmentto Arabic morphology generation by separatingthe issue of infixation from other inflectionalvariations.
We are developing an Arabicmorphological generator using MORPHE(Leavitt, 1994), a tool for modeling morphologybased on discrimination trees and regularexpressions.
MORPHE is part of a suite of toolsdeveloped at the Language TechnologiesInstitute, Carnegie Mellon University, forknowledge-based machine translation.
Largesystems for MT from English to Spanish,French, German, Portuguese and a prototype forItalian have already been developed.
Within thisframework, we are exploring English to Arabictranslation and Arabic generation forpedagogical purposes.
We generate Arabicwords including short vowels and diacriticmarks, since they are pedagogically useful andcan always be stripped before display.Our approach seeks to reduce the number ofrules for generating morphological variants ofArabic verbs by breaking the problem into twoparts.
We observe that, with the exception of afew verb types, there is very little interactionbetween stem changes and the processes ofprefixation and suffixation.
It is thereforepossible to decouple, in large part, the problemof stem changes from that of prefixes andsuffixes.
The gain is a significant reduction inthe size number of transformational rules, asmuch as a factor of three for certain verb classes.This improves the space efficiency of the systemand its maintainability by reducing duplicationof rules, and simplifies the rules by isolatingdifferent types of changes.To illustrate our approach, we focus on aparticular type of verbs, termed hollow verbs,and show how we integrate their treatment withthat of more regular verbs.
We also discuss howthe approach can be extended to other classes ofverbs and other parts of speech.1 Arabic Verbal MorphologyVerb roots in Arabic can be classified as shownin Figure 1.
3 A primary distinction is madebetween weak and strong verbs.
Weak verbshave a weak consonant ('w' or 'y') as one ormore of their radicals; strong verbs do not haveany weak radicals.Strong verbs undergo systematic hanges instem voweling from the perfect o the imperfect.The first radical vowel disappears in theimperfect.
Verbs whose middle radical vowel inthe perfect is 'a' can change it to 'a' (e.g.,qaTa'a 'he cut' -> yaqTa'u 'he cuts'), 4 'i' (e.g.,Daraba 'he hit' -> yaDribu 'he hits'), or 'u' (e.g.,kataba 'he wrote' -> yaktubu 'he writes') in theimperfect.
Verbs whose middle radical vowel inthe perfect is 'i' can only change it to 'a' (e.g.,shariba 'he drank' -> yashrabu 'he drinks') or 'i'(e.g., Hasiba 'he supposed' -> yaHsibu 'hesupposes').
Verbs with middle radical vowel 'u'in the perfect do not change it in the imperfect(e.g., Hasuna 'he was beautiful' -> yaHsunu 'heis beautiful').
For strong verbs, neither perfectnor imperfect stems change with person, gender,or number.Hollow verbs are those with a weak middleradical.
In both perfect and imperfect tenses, theunderlying stem is realized by two characteristicallomorphs, one short and one long, whose usedepends on the person, number and gender.3 Grammars of Arabic are not uniform in theirclassification of "hamzated" verbs, verbs containingthe glottal stop as one of the radicals (e.g.
\[sa?a\[\] 'toask').
Wright (1968) includes them as weak verbs,but Cowan (1964) doesn't.
Hamzated verbs changethe written 'seat' of the hamza from 'alif' to 'waaw'or 'yaa?
', depending on the phonetic ontext.4 In the Arabic transcription capital letters indicateemphatic onsonants; 'H' is the voiceless pharyngealfricative ; " '  the voiced pharyngeal fricative ; '?'
isthe glottal stop 'hamza'.87Istrong, Iregular hamzatedIreterit presentffect) (imperfect)' II Iactive passivetriliteralIweakII I \[ Idoubled weak initial weak middle weak finalradical radical radical radical(assimilated) (hollow) (defective)I I III Itense moodI , , Iparticiple indicativeI I Iimperative subjunctive jussive energeticFigure 1: Classification of Arabic Verbal Roots and Mood Tense SystemHollow verbs fall into four classes:.
Verbs of the pattern CawaC or  CawuC(e.g.
\[Tawut\] 'to be long'), where themiddle radical is 'w'.
Their characteristicis a long 'uu' between the first and lastradical in the imperfect.
E.g.,From the underlying root \[zawar\]:zaara 'he visited' and yazuuru 'he visits'Stem allomorphs:Perfect: -zur- and -zaar-Imperfect:-zur- and-zuur-.
Verbs of the pattern CawiC, where themiddle radical is 'w'.
Their characteristicis a long 'aa' between the first and lastradical in the imperfect.
E.g.,From the underlying root \[nawim\]:naama 'he slept and yanaamu 'he sleeps'Stem aUomorphs :Perfect: -nirn- and -naam-Imperfect:-ham- and-naam-.
Verbs of the pattern CayaC, where themiddle radical is 'y'.
Their characteristicis a long 'ii' before the first and last radicalin the imperfect.
E.g.,From the underlying root \[baya" \]:baa" a 'he sold' and yabii" u 'he sells'Stem allomorphs :Perfect: -bi'- and -baa'-Imperfect: and -bi'- and -bii'-.
Verbs of the pattern CayiC, where middleradical is 'y'.
E.g.,From the underlying root \[hayib\]:haaba 'he feared' and yahaabu 'he fears'Stem allomorphs :Perfect: -bib- and-haab-Imperfect: -hab- and-haab-In the relevant literature (e.g., Beesley, 1998;Kiraz, 1994), verbs belonging to the aboveclasses are all assumed to have the patternCVCVC.
The pattern does not show the verbconjugation class and makes it difficult topredict he type of stem allomorph to use.
Toavoid these problems, we keep information onthe middle radical and vowel in the base formof the verb.
In generation, classes 2 and 4 ofthe verb can be handled as one because theyhave the same perfect and imperfect stemsP5 The only exception is the passive participle.
Verbsof classes 1 and 2 behave the same (e.g.
Class 1:\[zawar\]: mazuwr 'visited'; Class 2 \[nawil\] --)manuwt 'obtained'), as do verbs of classes 3 and 4(e.g.
Class 3: \[baya'\]  --) mabii" 'sold', Class 4:\[hayib\] --) mahiib 'feared').88We describe our approach to modeling strongand hollow verbs below, following adescription of the implementation framework.2 The MORPHE SystemMORPHE (Leavitt, 1994) is a tool thatcompiles morphological transformation rulesinto either a word parsing program or a wordgeneration program.
6 In this paper we willfocus on the use of MORPHE in generation.Input and Output.
MORPHE's output issimply a string.
Input is a feature structure(FS) which describes the item that MORPHEmust transform.
A FS is implemented as arecursive Lisp list.
Each element of the FS is afeature-value pair (FVP), where the value canbe atomic or complex.
A complex value isitself a FS.
For example, the FS for generatingthe Arabic zurtu 'I visited' would be:((ROOT "zawar")(CAT V) (PAT CVCVC) (VOW HOL)(TENSE PERF) (MOOD IND)(VOICE ACT)(NI/MBER SG) (PERSON i))The choice of feature names and values, otherthan ROOT, which identifies the lexical item tobe transformed, is entirely up to the user.
TheFVPs in a FS come from one of two sources.Static features, such as CAT (part of speech)and ROOT, come from the syntactic lexicon,which, in addition to the base form of words,can contain morphological and syntacticfeatures.
Dynamic features, such as TENSE andNUMBER, are set by MORPHE's caller.The Morphological Form Hierarchy.MORPHE is based on the notion of amorphological form hierarchy (MFH) or tree.Each internal node of the tree specifies a pieceof the FS that is common to that entiresubtree.
The root of the tree is a special nodethat simply binds all subtrees together.
Theleaf nodes of the tree correspond to distinctmorphological forms in the language.
Eachnode in the tree below the root is built byspecifying the parent of the node and theconjunction or disjunction of FVPs that definethe node.
Portions of the Arabic MFH areshown in Figures 2-4.Transformational Rules.
A rule attached toeach leaf node of the MFH effects the desiredmorphological transformations for that node.A rule consists of one or more mutuallyexclusive clauses.
The 'if' part of a clause is aregular expression pattern, which is matchedagainst he value of the feature ROOT (a string).The 'then' part includes one or more operators,applied in the given order.
Operators includeaddition, deletion, and replacement of prefixes,infixes, and suffixes.
The output of thetransformation is the transformed ROOT string.An example of a rule attached to a node in theMFH is given in Section 3.1 below.Process Logic.
In generation, the MFH acts asa discrimination etwork.
The specified FS ismatched against the features defining eachsubtree until a leaf is reached.
At that point,MORPHE first checks in the irregular formslexicon for an entry indexed by the name of theleaf node (i.e., the MF) and the value of theROOT feature in the FS.
If an irregular form isnot found, the transformation rule attached tothe leaf node is tried.
If no rule is found ornone of the clauses of the applicable rulematch, MORPHE returns the value of ROOTunchanged.3 Handling Arabic VerbalMorphology in MORPHEFigure 2 sketches the basic MFH and thedivision of the verb subtree into stem changesand prefix/suffix additions.
7 The inflected verbis generated in two steps.
MORPHE is firstcalled with the feature CHG set to STEM.
Therequired stem is returned and temporarilysubstituted for the value of the ROOT feature.6 MORPHE is written in Common Lisp and thecompiled MFH and transformation rules arethemselves a set of Common Lisp functions.7 The use of two parts of the same tree for the twoproblems is a constraint of MORPHE'simplementation, which does not permit multipletrees with separate roots.89The second call to MORPHE, with feature CHGset to PSFIX, adds the necessary prefix and/orsuffix and returns the fully inflected verb.N) (CAT ADJ)A(CHG STEM) (CHG PSFIX)(PA~T~CCVC)  other forms( V O ~ I C E  PAS)(TENSE PERF) (TENSE IMPERF) /x /XFigure 2 : The Basic Verb HierarchyFigure 2 also shows some of the features usedto traverse the discrimination tree.
The featurePAT is used in conjunction with the ROOTfeature to select the appropriate affixes.Knowing the underlying root and its vowelingis crucial for the determination f hollow verbstems, as described in Section 1.
Knowing thepattern is also important in cases where it isunclear.
For example, verbs of patternCtVCVC insert a 't' after the first radical (e.g.ntaqat 'to move, change location',intransitive).
With some consonants as firstradicals, in order to facilitate pronunciation,the 't' undergoes a process of assimilationwhose effects differ depending on thepreceding consonant.
For example, the patternCtVCVC verb from zaHam 'to shove' insteadof *ztaHarn is zdaHam 'to team'.
It is alsodifficult to determine from just the stringntaqat whether this is pattern CVCVC of theverb *taqat (if it existed) or pattern CtVCVCof naqat 'to transport, move', transitive).3.1 Handling Strong and Hollow VerbMorphology in MORPHEAs a demonstration of our approach, wediscuss the case of hollow verbs, whosecharacteristics were described in Section 1.Figure 3 shows the MFH for strong and hollowverbs of pattern CVCVC in the perfect ense,active voice.
We use the feature vow to carryinformation about the voweling of the verb inthe imperfect (discussed below) and overload itto distinguish ollow and other kinds of verbs.
(TENSE PERF) / ' , ,~ (VOW (*or* a i u)) A(PERS (*or* 1 2)) (PERS 3)short s t e m ~(NUM (*or* sl~ dl)) (NUM PL)long stem(GENDER M) (GENDER F)long stem short stemFigure 3: The Perfect Stem Change Subtree forStrong and Hollow Verbs of Pattern CVCVCIn the perfect active voice, regular strong verbsdo not undergo any stem changes, but doubledradical verbs do.
Rules effecting these changesare attached to the node labeled with the FVP(vow (*or* a i u)).
8 The hollow verbs, on theother hand, use a long stem with a middle 'alif'(e.g.
\[daam\] 'to last') for third person singularand dual (masculine and feminine) and forthird person plural masculine.
The remainingperson-number-gender combinations take ashort stem whose voweling depends on theunderlying root of the verb, as specified earlier.Transformation rules attached to the leaf nodesperform the conversion of the ROOT featurevalue to the short and long stem.Inside the stem change rules, the four differentclasses of hollow verbs are treated as threeseparate conditions (classes 2 and 4 can bemerged, as described in Section 1) by matchingon the middle radical and the adjacent vowelsand replacing them with the appropriate vowel.8 Hamzated verbs changes are due to interactionswith specific suffixes and are best dealt with in theprefixation and suffixation subtree.90An example of such a rule, which changes theperfect stem to a short one for persons 1 and 2both singular and plural, follows.
(morph-rule v-stem-fl-act-perf-12("^%{cons}(awa)%{cons}$"(ri *i* "u"))("^%{cons}(a\[wy\]i)%{cons}$"(ri *i* "i"))("^%{cons}(aya)%{cons)$"(ri *i* "i")))The syntax %{var} is used to indicatevariables with a given set of values.
Enclosinga string in parenthesis associates it with anumbered register, so the replace infix (ri)operator can access it for substitution.Figure 4 shows the imperfect subtree for strongand hollow verbs.
Strong verbs are treatedefficiently by three rules branching on themiddle radical vowel, given as the value ofvow.
The consonant-vowel pattern of thecomputed stem is shown (e.g.
for kataba 'hewrote', the imperfect stem would be -ktub- inthe pattern CCuC).
As described in Section 1,the possible vowel in the imperfect is restrictedbut not always determined by the perfectvowel and so must be stored in the syntacticlexicon.
9 Separating stem changes from theaddition of prefixes and suffixes significantlyreduces the number of transformation rules thatmust be written by eliminating much repetitionof prefix and suffix addition for different stemchanges.
For strong verbs of pattern CVCVC,there is at least a three-fold reduction in thenumber of rules for active voice (recall thedifferent kinds of vowel changes for theseverbs from perfect to imperfect described inSection 1).
Other patterns and the passive ofpattern CVCVC verbs show less variation instem voweling but more variation in prefix andsuffix voweling.
Since some of the patternsshare the same prefix and suffix voweling,once the stem has been determined, theprefixation and suffixation rules can be sharedby pattern groups.The hollow verb subtree is not as small for theimperfect as it is for the perfect, since the stemdepends not only on the mood but also on theperson, gender, and number.
It is stilladvantageous to decouple stem changes fromprefixation and suffixation.
Suffixes differ inthe indicative and subjunctive moods; if thetwo types of changes were merged, the stemtransformations would have to be repeated ineach of the two moods and for each person-number-gender combination.
The sameobservation applies to stem changes in thepassive voice as well.
Significant replicationof transformational rules that include stemchanges makes the system bigger and harder tomaintain in case of changes, particularlybecause each transformational rule needs totake into consideration the four differentclasses of hollow verbs.3.2 An Example of GenerationConsider again the example verb form zurtu 'Ivisited' and the feature structure (FS) given inSection 2.
During generation, the feature-value pair (CHG STEM) is added to the FSbefore the first call to MORPHE.
Traversingthe MFH shown in Figure 2, MORPHE findsthe rule v-stem-fl-act-perf-12 given inSection 3.1 above.
The first clause fires,replacing the 'awa' with 'u' and MORPHEreturns the stem -zur-.
This stem is substitutedas the value of the ROOT feature in the FS andthe feature-value pair (CHG STEM) is changedto (CHG PSFIX) before the second call toMORPHE.
This time MORPHE traverses adifferent subtree and reaches the rule:(morph-rule v-psfix-perf-l-sgIt II(+s "otu") ) )This rule, currently simply appends "otu" tothe string, and MORPHE returns the string"zurotu", where the 'o' denotes the diacritic"sukuun" or absence of vowel.
This is thedesired form for zurtu 'I visited'.9 In the presence of certain second and thirdradicals, the middle radical vowel is more preciselydetermined.
This information can be incorporatedinto the syntactic lexicon as it is being built.91(TENSE IMPERF)(VOW HOL) (VOW a) (VOW i) (VOW u)(MOOD (*or* IND SUB))(NUM (*or* sg dl)) (NUM PL)l o n ~ ~ ' ~(PERS l) ~(PERS (*or* 2 3)) (PERS (*or* 2 3))(GENDER M) (GENDER F)long stem short stemCCaC CCiC CCuC(MOOD JUS)(NUM SG)(PERS (*or* 1 3)) (PERS 2)short s t e ~(GENDER M)short stem(NUM DL) (NUM PL)long s t e m ~(PERS I) /(GENDER F) (PERS (*or* 2 3)) (PERS (*or* 2 3))long stem (GENDER M) (GENDER F)long stem short stemFigure 4: The Imperfect Stem Change Subtree for Strong and Hollow Verbs of Pattern CvCvC4 ExtensionsIn this paper so far we have focused on regularand hollow verbs of the pattern CVCVC.
Herewe examine how our approach applies to otherverb types and other parts of speech.4.1 Extending the Approach to OtherVerb TypesThe two-step treatment of verbal inflectiondescribed in this paper is easily extended to thepassive, to doubled radical and hamzatedverbs, and to different patterns of strong andhollow verbs.
In fact, since not all higherpatterns are affected by the presence of amiddle or weak radical (e.g.
patterns CVCCV,CaaCVC, taCVCCVC and others), the subtreesfor these patterns will be significantly lessbushy than for pattern CVCVC.
The two-steptreatment also covers verbs with a weak firstradical, especially the radical 'w', which isnormally dropped in the active imperfect (e.g.perfect stem warad 'to come', imperfect stem -rid-).
~?
Alternatively, it can be placed in the10 Exceptions to this rule exist (e.g.
the verb waji\['to be afraid'), with imperfect stem - wjat-) but arerare and can be handled in MORPHE by placing theirregular stem in the syntactic lexicon and checkingfor it prior to calling MORPHE for stem changes.irregular lexicon, which MORPHE consultswhen it reaches a leaf node, prior to applyingany of the transformational ru es.Verbs with a weak third radical, includingdoubly or trebly weak verbs, are the mostproblematic since the stem changes interactheavily with the inflectional suffixes, and lessis gained by trying to modify the stemseparately.
We are currently investigating thisissue and the best way to treat it in MORPHE.4.2 Extending the Approach to OtherParts of SpeechThe two-step approach to generating verbalmorphology also presents advantages for theinflectional morphology of nouns andadjectives.
In Arabic, the plural of manynouns, especially masculine nouns, is notformed regularly by suffixation.
Instead, thestem itself undergoes changes according to acomplex set of patterns (e.g.
rajut 'man'pluralizes as rijaat 'men'), giving rise to so-called "broken plurals".
The inflection ofbroken plurals according to case (nominative,genitive, accusative) and definiteness,however, is basically the same as the inflectionThe radical 'y' is largely not dropped or changed.92of most masculine or feminine singular nouns.The same holds true for adjectives.Finally we note that our two-step approach canalso be used to combine derivational andinflectional morphology for nouns andadjectives.
Deverbal nouns and present andpast participles can be derived regularly fromeach verb pattern (with the exception ofdeverbal nouns from pattern CVCVC).Relational or "nisba" adjectives are derived,with small variations, from nouns.
Since theseparts of speech are inflected as normal nounsand adjectives, we can perform derivationaland inflectional morphology in two calls toMORPHE, much as we do stem change andprefix/suffix addition.ConclusionWe have presented a computational model thathandles Arabic morphology generationconcatenatively by separating the infixationchanges undergone by an Arabic stem from theprocesses of prefixation and suffixation.
Ourapproach was motivated by practical concerns.We sought to make efficient use of amorphological generation tool that is part ofour standard environment for developingmachine translation systems.
The two-stepapproach significantly reduces the number ofmorphological transformation rules that mustbe written, allowing the Arabic generator to besmaller, simpler, and easier to maintain.The current implementation has been tested ona subset of verbal morphology includinghollow verbs and various types of strong verbs.We are currently working on the other kinds ofweak verbs: defective and assimilated verbs.Other categories of words can be handled in asimilar manner, and we will turn our attentionto them next.ReferencesK.
Beesley.
1990.
Finite-State Description ofArabic Morphology.
In Proceedings of theSecond Cambridge Conference: BilingualComputing in Arabic and English.K.
Beesley.
1991.
Computer Analysis of Arabic: ATwo-Level Approach with Detours.
In B. Comrieand M. Eid, editors, Perspectives on ArabicLinguistics III: Papers from the Third AnnualSymposium on Arabic Linguistics.
Benjamins,Amsterdam, pages 155-172.K.
Beesley.
1996.
Arabic Finite-StateMorphological Analysis and Generation.
InProceedings COLING'96, Vol.
1, pages 89-94.K.
Beesley.
1998.
Consonant Spreading in ArabicStems.
In Proceedings of COLING'98.D.
Cowan.
1964.
An introduction to modernliterary Arabic.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge.G.
Hudson.
1986.
Arabic Root and PatternMorphology without Tiers.
Journal ofLinguistics, 22:85-122.G.
Kiraz.
1994.
Multi-tape Two-level Morphology:A Case study in Semitic Non-LinearMorphology.
In Proceedings of COLING-94,Vol.
1, pages 180-186.K.
Koskenniemi.
1983.
Two-level morphology: AGeneral Computational Model for Word-FormRecognition and Production.
PhD thesis,University of Helsinki.A.
Lavie, A. Itai, U. Ornan, and M. Rimon.
1988.On the Applicability of Two Level Morphologyto the Inflection of Hebrew Verbs.
InProceedings of the Association of Literary andLinguistic Computing Conference.J.R.
Leavitt.
1994.
MORPHE: A MorphologicalRule Compiler.
Technical Report, CMU-CMT-94-MEMO.J.
McCarthy and A.
Prince.
1990.
Foot and Wordin Prosodic Morphology: The Arabic BrokenPlural.
Natural Language and LinguisticsTheory, 8: 209-283.J.
McCarthy and A.
Prince.
1993.
Template inProsodic Morphology.
In Stvan, L. et al, editors,Papers from the Third Annual Formal LinguisticsSociety of Midamerica Conference,.Bloomington, Indiana.
Indiana UniversityLinguistics Club, pages 187-218.G.
Ritchie.
1992.
Languages Generated by Two-Level Morphological Rules.
ComputationalLinguistics, 18(1), pages 41-59.R.
Sproat.
1992.
Morphology and Computation.MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass.H.
Wehr.
1971.
A Dictionary of Modern WrittenArabic, J.M.
Cowan, editor.
Spoken LanguageServices, Ithaca, NY, fourth edition.W.
Wright.
1988.
A Grammar of the ArabicLanguage.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, third edition.93
