Multiple Discourse Marker Occurrence:Creating Hierarchies for Natural Language GenerationSarah Louise Oates*University of Brighton.Sarah.Oates@itri.brighton.ac.ukAbst ractMost studies on discourse markers implicitly as-sume that only one marker or discourse relationwill occur in a sentence.
In reality, more thanone relation may hold between text spans andmay be cued by multiple discourse markers.
Wedescribe here a method for hierarchically organ-ising discourse markers.
The hierarchies are in-tended for use by a generation system to enablethe selection and placement of more than onemarker in a single text span.1 In t roduct ionThe majority of studies on discourse markersimplicitly assume that only one marker or dis-course relation will occur in a sentence or thatthe presence of multiple markers will not af-fect the choice and placement of others.
How-ever, in reality, more than one relation mayhold between text spans which may be cuedby multiple markers.
The available rules de-scribing the occurrence, choice and placementof a given marker do not account for multiplemarker occurrence (Grote et al, 1995; Webberand Joshi, 1998; Power et al, 1999, e.g.,).
Wehave found that the choice and placement of dis-course markers is greatly affected, not only bythe presence and number of other markers, butalso by the style of the text and the strengthof other markers in the text span.
We describehere a method for hierarchically organising dis-course markers which takes account of these fac-tors.
The hierarchies are intended for use by ageneration system to enable the selection andplacement of multiple markers.
* The author would like to thank the Engineering andPhysical Sciences Research Council for funding2 Defining Discourse MarkersAlthough precise definitions of discourse mark-ers differ between studies, it is generally ac-cepted that their role is to signal how one propo-sition should be interpreted given the other(s) inthe discourse (Millis et al, 1995; Moore and Pol-lack, 1992).
Most researchers in this field alsoagree that the relation between these propo-sitions may exist regardless of whether a dis-course marker is used (Scott and de Souza, 1990;Knott, 1995): a discourse marker is simply anexplicit signal of a specific relation between twoor more propositions.
The non-occurrence of amarker does not mean that a discourse relationis absent:(1) no marker, 1 relation: The museum does notintend to sponsor a particular aspect ofmodern art; it intends to make a report o thepublic by offering material for study andcomparison.By the same token, the presence of more thanone discourse marker does not always signal amultitude of relations:(2) P markers, 1 relation: The museum does notintend to sponsor a particular aspect ofmodern art, but rather to make a report othe public by offering material for study andcomparison.
(BNC) 1Previous studies have accounted for a widerange of phenomena, from choosing betweensimilar discourse markers (Fraser, 1998; Sanderset al, 1992) to abstracting away from discoursemarkers and using syntax to signal underlyingdiscourse relations (Delin et al, 1996).
How-ever, the issue of multiple markers, like thosein the example above, is only now beginning1British National Corpus (Leech et al, 1994)41to be addressed.
Recent work in computa-tional linguistics has provided possible solutionsfor the use of correlative markers (Webber andJoshi, 1998) and embedded clauses (Power etal., 1999).
However, these solutions are incom-plete and further esearch is needed if we are toaccount for all examples of multiple discoursemarkers.3 Mu l t ip le  MarkersThe present project focuses on all cases of mul-tiple discourse markers, in other words, all caseswhere more than one marker occurs within twospans of text which are expressed either (a)within the same text sentence (Nunberg, 1990)covering one or more discourse relations (e.g.,examples 3 and 4);(3) Having said that,  if you weigh only 60 kg(1321b) and yet still manage to sit your 90 kg(1981b) opponent down with a solid thump tohis mid-section, then the refereeing panelmay well applaud your fervour with a fullpoint.
(BNC)(4) Since the question turns on the meaning ofthe word "appropriate" in section 1(1) of theAct of 1968, the problem is therefore one ofstatutory interpretation.
(BNC)or (b) in different ext sentences but cover-ing only one relation, the so-called correlativemarkers (Quirk et al, 1985) (e.g., example 5):(5) The job of being an Acorn Project leader is anunenviable one.
For a start, they don't getpaid, though they do receive a petrolallowance; for another thing, it's a bit likebeing in a group of unruly children for theweek... (BNC)The work described here focuses solely onmultiple discourse markers cueing a single re-lation, paying attention, when possible, to em-bedded iscourse relations and their markers.4 S ing le  Re la t ions  Mu l t ip leMarkersPreliminary tests using the British NationalCorpus (BNC) and Knott's (1995) taxonomy ofdiscourse markers suggested that the order ofmultiple markers cueing a single relation is af-fected by their position in the taxonomy; thosehigher in the taxonomy always precede thoselower in the taxonomy (see figure 1 and exam-ples 6-7);(6) This blood-line was particularly helpful to theearly breeders because the line was in-bred,his parents being brother and sister ofexcellent breeding and so consequently trueto type.
(BNC)(7) The difficulty is that the sites which have beenextensively excavated, and so produced thelargest quantities of pottery, such a Corbridgeand Newstead, are multi-period, and thestratification of the excavations early in thecentury, consequently suspect.
(BNC)However, since Knott's taxonomy only allowsus to view hierarchies of markers of a single re-lation, improvements were necessary in order toaccount for multiple markers.
Using the BNC,a list of at least 350 English discourse markersand Mann and Thompson's (1988) original 23rhetorical relations, we created a database onthe number and type of relations each markercan cue (see figure 2).
From this a hierarchywas built, similar to Knott's (1995), but bene-fiting from a wider range of markers and allow-ing more than one relation to be expressed ata time, thus reducing the redundancy presentin Knott's taxonomy.
Furthermore, in contrastto Knott's study in which examples were fab-ricated, all examples of discourse marker usagein our database are taken from the British Na-tional Corpus (BNC).
Thus, all of our exam-ples are taken from real, natural texts and are,therefore, representative of discourse marker oc-currence in natural anguage.5 Const ruct ing  the  H ierarchyOur hierarchies are constructed on the assump-tion that (a) some discourse markers may beused to cue more than one relation and (b) whenmore than one marker is needed, the number ofrelations a marker can cue will affect the choiceand position of that marker.
In our hierarchy,those discourse markers which can cue manyrelations appear at the top and those mark-ing only a single relation occur at the bottom.Markers may also have additional constraints ontheir usage depending upon the text style, otherrelations being marked simultaneously and thecontent of the related propositions.6 S t rong  ~ Weak  MarkersFigure 3 is an example of our hierarchy forthe family of contrastive relations.
Here wesee that 'but' can mark four discourse relations42IT FOLLOWS THATTHIS IMPLIES THATHENCETHUSI AND tI I.
-, -I .
.
.
.I so IITHEREFORE iCONSEQUENTLY.
.
.
.
Not in Knott's (1995)taxonomyIn Knott's (1995)taxonomy' I ) PLAINLY IN SO DOING OBVIOUSLY IN DOING THIS  ACCORDINGLY AT THAT AT ONCEI AS A RESULT IAS A CONSEQUENCEJ r / \ - - - - -  THEREBY INSTANTLYFigure 1: Example of Knott's (1995) TaxonomyDISCOURSE CATEGORY DISCOURSE SAT/ EXAMPLE IN USEMARKER RELATION NUC*so subordinator vol-cause (n) He had no chance of winning SO he pretended he wasn't rying (BNC)non-vol-cause (n)non-vol-resultenablementevaluationjustifysequencepurpose(s)(n)(s)(n)multi-nuclear(s)While deciding to stay as independent aspossible, I contacted ACET who 1knew provided practical care at home.
I had previously spent about 2 yearsasking local services and friends for help and not having it happen.
SO myflat had become pretty run down.
(BNC)While wanting to dismiss the stereotyping and silly superstition, the snagremains that within all the ballyhoo there are elements of truth.
SO insteadof being outraged, one is left with a resigned smirk.
(BNC)Loosen the cord SO you can remove the curtains easily.
(BNC)Nor is this feeling only provoked by the sight or the thought of art, he wrote.I also experienced it when I signed the marriage register aswell as when Isaw the pig slaughtered...a feeling of the heart leaping and the bloodpemping.....SO, wrote Harsnet, there is continuity as well as discontinuity.
(BNC)I f  you went on strike they didn't pay you off.
You got sacked and you justdidn't get any money.
So people had no other option but to work.
(BNC)..... that's what I guessed so I said "no", I said they're fine, SO she said"oh, I'm ever so sorry".
I said "don't be".
(BNC)He'll remind her SO she'll remember.
(BNC)*SAT/NUC = The text span upon which the discourse marker occurs - SAT(satellite), NUC(nucleus).Figure 2: Extract from Database of Discourse Markers & Relations(contrast, antithesis, concession and exception)without constraint.
When discourse markerscan be used for a large number of relations, werefer to them as 'weak' markers ince there isonly a weak correlation between the marker andthe relation being signalled.
In contrast, whena discourse marker can only cue a single rela-tion, we refer to it as a 'strong' marker, sincethere is a strong correlation between the relationand the explicit lexical cue.
In the hierarchy'notwithstanding that' is a highly constrained,strong discourse marker since it can only markone relation (concession) and occur only whenthe text is formal, legal or both.Our tests on the BNC show that the choiceand placement of a marker will be affected byits strength or weakness; the weakest markersalways precede the stronger ones.
We find thatthis rule not only applies to single relations cuedby multiple markers:43CONTRASTCONCESSIONANTITHESISEXCEPTIONbutnot thzt..tx~t_\] comaAsT- \[ ~m-rHEs=s \[notwithsumdingwhile, whibtat the s~u~ umemeanwhilein \[l~or/..,i~ pr~t~e~ one s~de..oca the c tb~~ tb~ oth?= haadhero, theirsall me same, st~l~in ma)'c~ctho'~-6s NL ISN~,BI ~4 at\]<+ SUPRISING Neve.
though, Fv~ sodcsp~ ~in iplte of even whetlatkate~m if.
only if, if~vet~lyaol oaiy...bm alsoiQ fact in reality \ ia actuLI f~r~tat f'k,~t ~ghlE X ~  I =ave, tar~ \ ]  = RELATIONS MARKER CAN CUE ~ =PREFERENCES POR OCCURRENCEFigure 3: Hierarchy of Contrastive Family of Relationsnon~thstsadlng thai.))
a ( .E~o~T~oN .....a~ay, anyh?~))cveaalbeit(s) (a) The pores in the skin are a classicexample: they can not become perceptible tous by themselves, but yet (b) their presencein the skin can be deduced from sweat.
(BNC)but also, to a certain extent, to embedded rela-tions cued by two markers in the same text span.In the following example, we have two relationsand two markers of contrast.
The superordi-hate relation, marked by 'however', holds be-tween proposition (a) and propositions (b) and(c), whilst the subordinate relation, marked by'whereas', holds between propositions (b) and(c);(9) Indeed, (a) so strong have the differentialviews on advantageous locat ions become thatone recent assessment of the total stock offoreign capital in developing countriessuggests that it is less today than it was in1900.
However, whereas (b) the G-5countries now account for 75 per cent of theworld's FDI flow, (c) their position as the fivemajor exporters is a much less concentrated45 per cent.
(BNC)In both cases, the weakest marker precedesthe stronger marker and neither could be re-versed and remain grammatical.
Thus, workingthrough the hierarchy from the weakest to thestrongest markers, a generation system can de-termine which discourse marker should occur ina particular position on the basis that the weak-est markers always precede the stronger ones.44Decisions are based on the relation(s) to bemarked, any other relation(s) already present,the style of the text, the content of the textspans, and the strength or weakness of otherdiscourse markers present.7 Conc lus ionsThus far, we have developed hierarchies for thefamily of contrastive relations in English andFrench and the family of causal relations in En-glish.
Ultimately, we intend to establish a com-plete hierarchy of all the markers of discourserelations; this will not only allow us to choosebetween different markers, regardless of whetherone or more are used, but will also help to de-termine their order when multiple markers arenecessary.
In the final version of the hierar-chy, we intend to provide the generation systemwith statistical information on the likelihood ofone marker following another.
Such informa-tion will take account of the fact that certainmarkers tend to occur together more often thanothers.
These statistics are currently being de-rived from tests on the International Corpus ofEnglish (Nelson, 1995).ReferencesJ.
Delin, D. R. Scott, and A. Hartley.
1996.Language Specific Mappings from Semanticsto Syntax.
In Proceedings of the 16th Inter-national Conference on Computational Lin-guistics, pages 292-297.
COLING96.B.
Fraser.
1998.
Contrastive Discourse Mark-ers in English.
In A. H. Jucker and Y. Ziv,editors, Discourse Markers: Descriptions andTheory, pages 301-326.
John Benjamins, Am-sterdam.B.
Grote, N. Lenke, and M. Stede.
1995.Ma(r)king Concessions in English and Ger-man.
In Proceedings of the 5th EuropeanWorkshop on Natural Language Generation,pages 11-32, Leiden, May.
Leiden University.A.
Knott.
1995.
A Data-Driven Methodology\]or Motivating a Set o.f Coherence Relations.Ph.D.
thesis, University of Edinburgh.G.
Leech, R. Garside, and M. Bryant.
1994.CLAWS4: The tagging of the British Na-tional Corpus.
In Proceedings of the 15thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics (COLING), pages 622-628, Ky-oto, Japan.W.
Mann and S. Thompson.
1988.
Rhetoricalstructure theory: Toward a functional theoryof text organisation.
Text, 8:243-281.K.
K. Millis, J. M. Golding, and G. Barker.1995.
Causal Connectives Increase InferenceGeneration.
Discourse Processes, 20(1):29-50.J.
D. Moore and M. E. Pollack.
1992.
A Prob-lem for RST: The need for multi-level dis-course analysis.
Computational Linguistics,18(4):537-544.G Nelson.
1995.
The International Corpus ofEnglish: Markup & Transcription.
In G. N.Leech, G. Myers, and J.
A. Thomas, ed-itors, Spoken English on Computer: Tran-scription, mark-up and application, pages220-223.
Longman, London.G.
Nunberg.
1990.
The Linguistics of Punctu-ation.
CSLI Lecture Notes, no.18.
Center forthe study of Language and information, Stan-ford.R.
Power, D. Scott, and C. Doran.
1999.
Gen-erating Embedded Discourse Markers fromRhetorical Structure.
In Proceedings fromthe European Workshop on Natural Lan-guage Generation EWNLG'g9, pages 30-38,Toulouse.R.
Quirk, S. Greenbaum, S. Leech, andJ.
Svartvik.
1985.
A Comprehensive Gram-mar of the English Language.
Longman, Lon-don.T.
Sanders, W. Spooren, and L. Noordman.1992.
Toward a Taxonomy of Coherence Re-lations.
Discourse Processes, 15:1-35.D.R.
Scott and C.S.
de Souza.
1990.
Gettingthe Message Across in RST-based Text Gen-eration.
In R. Dale, C. Mellish, and M. Zock,editors, Current Research in Natural Lan-guage Generation, pages 47-73.
AcademicPress, London.B.
L. Webber and A. K. Joshi.
1998.
An-choring a Lexicalised Tree-Adjoining Gram-mar for Discourse.
In M. Stede, L. Warner,and E. Hovy, editors, Discourse Relationsand Discourse Markers.
Proceedings from theWorkshop.
COLING-A CL'98, pages 86-92,Montreal.45
