Acknowledgments in Human-Computer InteractionKaren Ward and Peter A. HeemanCenter for Spoken Language UnderstandingOregon Graduate Institute of Science & Technology20000 NW Walker RoadBeaverton, Oregon 97006wardk@cse, ogi.
edu, heeman@cse, ogi.
eduAbstractAcknowledgments are relatively rare in human-computer interaction.
Are people unwilling to usethis human convention when talking to a machine,or is their scarcity due to the way that spoken-lan-guage interfaces are designed?
We found that,given a simple spoken-language interface that pro-vided opportunities for and responded to acknowl-edgments ,  about hal f  of our subjects  usedacknowledgments at least once and nearly 30%used them extensively during the interaction.1 IntroductionAs our ability to build robust and flexible spoken-language interfaces increases, it is worthwhile toask to what extent we should incorporate varioushuman-human discourse phenomena into our dia-logue models.
Many studies have shown that peo-ple alter their dialogue techniques when theybelieve that they are talking to a computer (e.g.,Brennan, 1991), so it is not clear that observationsof human-human conversation will provide us withthe guidance we need.
At the same time, we cannotalways look to current systems to determine whichdiscourse phenomena should be supported.
Cur-rent-generation interfaces are still relatively fragile,and so designers of spoken-language systems go tosome effort to structure dialogues and createprompts that guide the user toward short, content-ful, in-vocabulary responses (e.g., Basson et al1996; Cole, et al 1997; Oviatt et al 1994).
Oneresult of this approach is the suppression of meta-dialogue acts such as acknowledgement a d repeti-tion.The term "acknowledgment" is from Clark andSchaefer (1989), who describe ahierarchy of meth-ods by which one conversant may signal thatanother's contribution has been understood wellenough to allow the conversation to proceed.Acknowledgments often appear in AmericanEnglish conversation as an "okay" or "uh-huh" thatsignals understanding but not necessarily agree-ment.
These are also called "back channels" or"prompts" (e.g., Chu-Carroll & Brown, 1997),Closely related to acknowledgments are repeti-tions, in which the conversant provides a strongersignal that a contribution has been understood byrepeating part or all of the other's contribution.Repetitions are also referred to as "paraphrases"(Traum & Heeman, 1996), "echoing" (Swerts et al1998), and "demonstration" (Clark & Schaefer,1989).
Repetitions are often seen when one is con-veying complex information, such as when onecopies an address or telephone number.Neither acknowledgments or repetitions con-tribute new domain information to the conversa-tion, but they serve to assure the speaker thatinformation has been conveyed successfully.Acknowledgments also play a role in managingturn-taking in mixed-initiative dialogue; althoughacknowledgments may preface a new contributionby the same speaker (Novick & Sutton, 1994),often they occur alone as a single-phrase turn thatappears to serve the purpose of explicitly decliningan opportunity to take a turn (Sacks et al 1974).Acknowledgments and repetitions are ubiqui-tous in many types of human-human conversation.In a corpus of problem-solving spoken dialogues,for example, Traum and Heeman (1996) found that51% of turns began with or consisted of an explicitacknowledgment.
Given this, one would expectthat acknowledgments should be modeled in dia-logue models for spoken-language systems, and280indeed some research models are beginning toincorporate acknowledgments, e.g., Kita et al(1996), Aist, (1998), Iwase & Ward (1998).Typical human-computer dialogue models arestructured in ways that suppress the use ofacknowledgments.
In many systems turn-taking iscompletely controlled by one conversant, e.g., theuser responds to system prompts, which tends toeliminate the need for acknowledgments as a turn-taking mechanism.
In other systems, the use ofbarge-in defeats the common interpretation of anacknowledgment; if the user speaks, the systemcontribution is cut off before the user utterance isinterpreted.
If that utterance was intended to signalthat the contribution should continue, the effect isexactly the opposite of the one desired.Thus, current design practices both discourageand render meaningless the standard uses ofacknowledgments.
If these impediments wereremoved, would people choose to use acknowledg-ments when interacting with a computer interface?2 ExperimentThis study was designed as a pilot to our largerinvestigation into the effects of incorporatingacknowledgement behavior in dialogue models forspoken-language interfaces.
Before we attemptedto compare interfaces with and without acknowl-edgement behavior, we wanted to understandwhether people are willing to use this sort of meta-dialogue behavior when interacting with a com-puter.2.1 ApproachIn this study we hypothesized that subjects willchoose to use acknowledgments in human-com-puter interaction if they are given an interface thatprovides opportuni t ies  for and responds toacknowledgments.In designing the study, we assumed that itwould not immediately occur to subjects that theycould use acknowledgments to a computer.
At thesame time, we did not want to explicitly instruct orrequire subjects to use acknowledgment behavior,as that would tell us nothing about their prefer-ences.
We therefore decided against a comparison/control-group experimental design for this initialstudy and instead focused on creating a situation inwhich subjects would have a reason to useacknowledgments, perhaps even gain an advantagefrom doing so, while still keeping the behavioroptional.We decided to focus on a somewhat narrow useof acknowledgments.
Conversants are especiallylikely to offer acknowledgments and repetitionswhen complex information is being presented,especially when the conversant is copying theinformation.
While this is certainly explainable interms of mutuality of understanding, this particularuse of acknowledgment may be viewed from amore mechanical standpoint as regulating the paceat which information ispresented.
This insight sug-gested to us that a fruitful task for this study mightbe one in which the subject is asked to write downverbally-presented information, as when takingmessages over the telephone.2.2 TaskWe selected the domain of telephone interface toemail and designed a task in which subjects wereasked to transcribe items of information from themessages.
Writing is slow in comparison to speak-ing, so we anticipated that subjects would require aslower pace of information presentation when theywere writing.
The messages included informationnot asked for on the question list to simulate "unin-teresting" material that the subject would want tomove through at a faster pace.
In this way wehoped to motivate subjects to try to control thepace at which information was presented.The email was presented in segments roughlycorresponding to a long phrase.
After each seg-ment, the system paused to give the subject ime tomake notes.
If the subject said nothing, the systemwould continue by presenting the next messagesegment.
Subjects could accept--and perhapsmake use of--this delay, or they could reduce it byacknowledging the contribution, e.g., "okay," or bycommanding the system to continue, e.g., "go on.
"The system signalled the possibility of controllingthe delay by prompting the subject "Are you readyto go on?"
after the first pause.
This prompting wasrepeated for every third pause in which the subjectsaid nothing.
In this way we hoped to suggest othe subjects that they could control the wait time ifdesired without explicitly telling them how to doSO.On the surface, there is no functional differ-ence in system behavior between a subject's use of281a command to move the system onward (e.g., "goon" "next", "continue") and the use of an acknowl-edgment ("okay," "uh-huh", or a repetition).
Ineither case, the system responds by presenting thenext message segment, and in fact it eventuallypresents the next segment even if the subject saysnothing at all.
Thus, the design allows the subjectto choose freely between accepting the system'space (system initiative), or commanding the systemto continue (user initiative), or acknowledging thepresentations in a fashion more typical of mixed-initiative human conversation.
In this way, wehoped to understand how the subject preferred tointeract with the computer.2.3 SubjectsSubjects were told that the study's purpose was toassess the understandability and usability of theinterface, and that their task was to find theanswers to a list of questions.
They were given noinstructions in the use of the program beyond theinformation that they could talk to it using normal,everyday speech.The 14 volunteers were native speakers ofNorth American English, and most were staff at aresearch university.
Ten were female, four weremale.
Ages ranged from 13 to 57.
All used comput-ers, typically office software and games, but nonehad significant programming experience.
Each ses-sion lasted about 45 minutes total, and each subjectwas paid $10.00.
One subject declined payment.2.4 InterfaceAs mentioned earlier, one difficulty with recogniz-ing acknowledgements in poken-language inter-faces is that the use of barge-in tends to defeat hepurpose of acknowledgments when they occur inoverlapped speech.
We used a Wizard of Oz proto-col as a simple way to allow the system to respondto such utterances and to provide robustness inhandling repetitions.The wizard's interface was constructed usingthe Rapid Application Developer in the Center forSpoken Language Understanding Toolkit (Sutton,et al 1998).
A simple button panel allowed thewizard to select he appropriate response from theactions supported by the application.
The applica-tion functionality was deliberately limited to sug-gest realistic abilities for a current spoken-language interface.
Using messages pre-recordedin a synthesized voice, the wizard was able todirect he system to:?
Read a list of all messages.?
Begin reading aparticular message.?
Read the next message segment.?
Repeat he current message segment.?
Repeat he previous message segment.?
Ask the subject whether the program shouldcontinue reading the current message.?
Ask the subject o what to do next.?
End the program.?
Play one of several error and help messages.The texts of the email messages were pre-sented in phrases of varying lengths, with eachphrase followed by a pause of about five seconds.Preliminary tests showed that the combinedresponse time of the wizard and the interface wasbetween one and two seconds, and that pauses ofless than five seconds were not obviously differentfrom the normal pace of system response.
Five sec-onds is a long response time, uncomfortably soforhuman-human conversation, so we hoped that thislengthy pause would encourage the subjects to takethe initiative in controlling the pace of the interac-tion.The messages were divided into segments byhand.
The divisions were intended to simulate aphrase-level presentation, although some shortphrases were combined to make the presentationless choppy.
An example of one message and itsdivision into phrases may be seen in Figure 1.Synthesized speech from the Festival speechsynthesizer (Taylor, et al 1998) was used through-out the interface.
The message texts were presentedin a synthesized male voice, while the control por-tions of the interface used a synthesized femalevoice.
Default pronunciations were used exceptwhen the default was incorrect, e.g., "read"defaulted to the past-tense pronunciation i  all con-texts.
Also, there was minor use of the SABLEmarkup language (Wouters, et al 1999) to flattenthe pitch range at the end of phrases in list items;the intent was to suggest the prosody of list contin-uation rather than the default sentence-final drop.282Message six is from Jo at teleport dot com, about, please stop by store on your way home.I'm going to be late getting home tonight, so would you please stop by the store on your way home?We need milk,eggs,a bunch of spinach,fresh ginger,green onions,maple syrup,a pound of coos-coos,mild curry powder,a pound of coffee,and a package of seventy five watt light bulbs.Thanks!
See you tonight.Figure 1.
Text of a sample message.The subject's list of questions included "What items are you supposed to pick up at the store?
"To improve the understandability, both voices wereslowed slightly to 90% of the default speaking rate.2.5 MeasuresThe central question to be answered is: will thesubject use acknowledgments in interacting withthe program?
A subject can show one of severalpatterns of response:?
The subject may make no attempt to control thepacing of the interface, instead allowing theinteraction to proceed via time-outs.?
The subject may use only commands to controlthe pacing.?
The subject may use only acknowledgments tocontrol the pacing.?
The subject may use a mixture of commands andacknowledgments.The determination as to whether a particular utter-ance constituted an acknowledgment or a com-mand was based primarily on word choice anddialogue context; this approach is consistent withdefinitions of this behavior, e.g., Chu-Carroll andBrown (1997).
For example, "yes" in the context ofa system inform (a segment of an email message)was considered an acknowledgment, but "yes" inthe context of a system question was not.
Thewords "okay," "uh-huh," and "yes" (immediatelyfollowing an inform) were taken as evidence ofacknowledgments, and phrases such as "go on,""continue," next" following an inform were takenas evidence of commands.
The interpretation wasconfirmed uring the post-experiment i terview byquestioning the subjects about their word choice.2.6 Post-Experiment InterviewA post-experiment interview was conducted togather subject feedback and to answer subjects'questions.
The experimenter took notes and thuscould have introduced bias in the record ofresponses?
No tape recording was made.The subject was first invited to comment on theinterface and the interaction in an open-ended fash-ion.
When the subject had finished, the experi-menter asked several specific questions to assesstheir understanding of the interface functionality.During this time, the experimenter reminded thesubjects of the words that they had used most fre-quently to prompt the system to continue duringpauses and asked the subjects why they hadselected those words.Finally, the experimenter explained the truepurpose and hypothesis of the experiment, verifiedthat the subject was unaware that they had beeninteracting with a Wizard-of-Oz interface, andasked the subject to comment on the notion ofusing acknowledgments when interacting with acomputer.
The responses to this question, espe-cially, must be assumed to be somewhat optimistic,as it is likely that at least some subjects would bereluctant to disagree with the experimenter.3 ResultsResults are summarized in Table l .Because thesubject pool was not balanced for gender, resultsfor male and female subjects are reported sepa-rately.
Due to the small number of male subjects in283Table 1.
Summary of Acknowledgment BehaviorBehaviorSubjectsFemale10 subjectsMale.4 subjectsTotal(14)Used acknowledgment/repetition at least once 4 (40%) 4 (100%) 8 (57%)Used acknowledgment/repetition m re than command 3 (30%) 1 (25%) 4 (29%)Used acknowledgment bu no commands 1 (i0%) 0 1 (7%)Described acknowledgment to computer as strange 2 (20%) 0 2 (14%)this pilot study, no tests of statistical significance ofdifferences in the rates of acknowledgment behav-ior were made.Eight of the fourteen subjects used anacknowledgment or repetition at least once, andfour used acknowledgment/repetitions more fre-quently than they used commands.
Only one sub-ject used acknowledgments exclusively, while fivesubjects never used acknowledgments.
No subjectrelied exclusively on time-outs to allow the systemto proceed at its own pace, although one subjectdid use that as her predominant method (42 times,while using acknowledgments only six times andcommands three times).
Only one subject used rep-etition, and he reported uring the interview that hewas unaware of having done so.It is interesting to note that while all of themale subjects in this sample xhibited acknowledg-ment behavior at least once, only one preferredacknowledgment over command.
One of the malesubjects used acknowledgments only three times,in all cases as prefaces to commands.
Conversely,although a lower percentage of women usedacknowledgments (40%), a higher percentage ofthem (30%) used acknowledgments in preferenceto commands.
Because of the small numbers ofsubjects, however, we do not conclude that thesedifferences are significant.During the post-experiment i erview, two sub-jects (both female) described the idea of usingacknowledgments to the computer as strange andstated that they didn't feel that they would do thisunless directed tt>---and even then, they wouldregard it as simply an alternate command.
Twoother subjects, both females who had usedacknowledgments 2-6 times during the task, eachreported that she had felt silly when she had caughtherself saying "please" and "okay" to a computerbut had been pleased when it had worked.
Theremainder of the subjects either expressed nostrong opinion (two, both female) or expressed apositive attitude toward being able to use acknowl-edgments when interacting with a computer.
Twosubjects who had not used acknowledgments com-mented that they would probably be more likely touse human-like conversation if the synthesizedvoice were more human-like.Again, this report of the subjects' attitudesshould be interpreted with caution; at this point inthe interview they knew the experimenter's hypoth-esis and so may have been reluctant to disagree.3.1 Other Dialogue BehaviorsAlthough we had not formed any hypothesis aboutother dialogue behaviors, we noticed several inter-esting dialogue behaviors that we had not antici-pated.We were surprised at the number of subjectswho exhibited politeness behavior toward the inter-face, either saying "please" when issuing com-mands to the computer or responding to theprogram's "good-bye" at the end of the session.One subject used "please" throughout the interac-tion, but a more common pattern was to use"please" at the beginning of the session and to dropthe behavior as the interface became more familiar.Politeness did not seem to be strongly associatedwith a willingness to use acknowledgments, how-ever; four of the nine subjects who exhibitedpoliteness did not use any acknowledgments intheir interaction.Despite the deliberately-artificial interface,several subjects responded at least once to the mes-sage content as if they were talking to the message284System: I could come to your office now or at any of the following times, one thirtySUBJECT: continueSystem: three o clockSUBJECT: continueSystem: or five fifteenSUBJECT: continueSystem: thank you.
I look forward to your prompt replySUBJECT: thank you- uh ((laugh)) continueFigure 2.
Excerpt of transcript.Subject hanks the interface.
The system is reading the text of one of the messages.sender.
In the excerpt shown in Figure 2., for exam-ple, the subject replied "I'hank you" to the messagetext's "thank you."
This did not appear to be a mat-ter of misunderstanding the capabilities of theinterface; the subject later reported that despite thesynthesized voices she had briefly forgotten thatshe wasn't alking to her secretary.Three subjects also made one or more meta-comments, e.g., "ah, there it is" when finding a par-ticular piece of information.
These may have beenat least partially an artifact of the "treasure hunt"nature of the task.
When questioned in the post-experiment interview, subjects didn't seem awarethat they'd made these comments.
All but one ofthese instances were followed immediately by acommand, so the wizard responded to the com-mand and ignored the meta-comment.
The onestand-alone meta-comment was treated as anunrecognized command (an error message wasplayed).4 DiscussionSubjects were provided with three methods forcontrolling the pace at which information was pre-sented: silence, command, or acknowledgment/repetition.
The majority of the subjects used com-mands more than they used acknowledgments, butover one half used an acknowledgment or repeti-tion at least once during their interaction andnearly 30% used acknowledgments in preferenceto commands.
This occurred despite the fact thatsubjects were given no reason to think that thisbehavior would be effective: the interface wasdeliberately limited in functionality, and voice syn-thesis was used instead of recorded voice toemphasize the artificial nature of the interaction.Furthermore, the interface did not offer acknowl-edgments to the subjects, and the subjects weregiven no instructions uggesting that the interfaceunderstood acknowledgments.
In fact two subjectswho did use acknowledgments expressed surprisethat they had worked, and two who had not usedacknowledgments reported that they would proba-bly have used them if they had known it wouldwork.It is interesting to consider these results in lightof those reported by Okato et al(1998).
Theydescribe a Japanese-language Wizard-of-Oz studyin which the subjects were given some instructionon using the system, and in which the system bothpresented and accepted back-channel feedback.They found that even when the interface offeredback channels itself the rate of subject back-chan-nels was somewhat lower in human-computerinteraction than in comparable human-human con-versation.
This makes the fact that our interfaceelicited acknowledgments without offering themeven more encouraging.
Clearly, some people arewilling to utilize this human conversational con-vention in human-computer dialogue.
Our post-experiment interviews uggest, however, that somepeople will find the use of acknowledgementsstrange or uncomfortable in human-computer inter-action.
While self-reports of attitudes toward hypo-thetical situations must be treated with somecaution, it seems reasonable to assume that evenwhen such interfaces become available there willbe users who will prefer to interact with computersusing commands.Will attitudes and conversational behaviorchange as people gain experience with moreadvanced spoken-language interfaces?
Despite the285relatively short duration of this test--most subjectscompleted the task itself in 15-20 minutes--somechanges in behavior could be observed over thecourse of the dialogue.
In particular, politenessbehaviors were likely to be seen early in the dia-logues and then diminish as the subjects becamemore comfortable with their interaction.
We specu-late that the use of politeness words did not reflecta strong underlying politeness toward the computerso much as a falling back on human conventionswhen faced with an unfamiliar dialogue situation.One subject who had used "please" 21 times dur-ing the interaction, for example, simply hung upwithout warning when she had finished.
This con-trasts, however, with the findings of Nass et al(1999) that people do offer socially-desirablebehavior to computers.Would a better voice increase the incidence ofacknowledgment behavior?
Several subjectsthought i would, and even with the current synthe-sized voices we saw several examples of subjectsseemingly forgetting briefly that they were nottalking to a human.
We plan to explore this ques-tion in future work.4.1 Conclusions and Future WorkWe conducted a preliminary study to examine thewillingness of subjects to use a particular dialogueact, acknowledgment, in human-computer interac-tion.
Although the number of subjects was small,we saw that about half  of our subjects usedacknowledgements or repetition at least occasion-ally to control the pace at which information waspresented, and about 29% used acknowledgmentsmore frequently than they used commands for thatpurpose.Our immediate plans include extending thisstudy to a larger and gender-balanced group of sub-jects so that we can draw firmer quantitative con-clusions about the percentage of people who arelikely to prefer this style of interaction.
In particu-lar, we cannot conclude from the current study'ssmall sample how strong the preference for usingacknowledgment might be, especially among malesubjects.
Also, in our current study the subjectachieved no functional benefit in using acknowl-edgments.
With better estimates of subject prefer-ences, we can then proceed to our larger goal ofcomparing the usefulness and user acceptability ofspoken language dialogue models with and withoutacknowledgment behavior (c.f.
Walker, 1993).
Wealso plan to explore the effect of the quality of thesynthesized voice on the incidence of acknowledg-ment behavior.AcknowledgmentsThis work was partially supported by a grant fromIntel Research Council.
The authors gratefullyacknowledge and thank David G. Novick and theanonymous reviewers for their helpful commentsand suggestions.ReferencesGregory Aist.
1998.
Expanding a Time-SensitiveConversational Architecture for Turn-Takingto Handle Content-Driven I terruption.
In Pro-ceedings of lCSLP 98 Fifth International Con-ference on Spoken Language Processing, pages413-417.Sara Basson, Stephen Springer, Cynthia Fong,Hong Leung, Ed Man, Michele Olson, JohnPitrelli, Ranvir Singh, and Suk Wong.
1996.User Participation and Compliance in SpeechAutomated Telecommunications Applications.In Proceedings of ICSLP 96 Fourth Interna-tional Conference on Spoken Language Pro-cessing, pages 1676-1679.Susan E. Brennan.
1991.
Conversation With andThrough Computers.
User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction.
1:67-86.Jennifer Chu-Carroll and Michael K. Brown.
1997.Tracking Initiative in Collaborative DialogueInteractions.
In Proceedings of the 35th AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, pages 262-270.Herbert H. Clark and Edward F. Schaefer.
1989.Contributing to Discourse.
Cognitive Science,13:259-294.Ronald A. Cole, David G. Novick, Pieter J. E. Ver-meulen, Stephen Sutton, Mark Fanty, L. F. A.Wessels, Jacques Ho de Villiers, Johan Schalk-wyk, Brian Hansen and Daniel Bumett.
1997.Experiments with a Spoken Dialogue Systemfor Taking the U.S. Census.
Speech Communi-cations, Vol.
23.Peter A. Heeman, Michael Johnston, Justin Den-ney and Edward Kaiser.
1998.
Beyond Struc-tured Dialogues: Factoring out Grounding.
In286Proceedings of ICSLP 98 Fifth InternationalConference on Spoken Language Processing,pages 863-867.Tatsuya Iwase, and Nigel Ward.
1998.
Pacing Spo-ken Directions to Suit the Listener.
In Proceed-ings of ICSLP 98 Fifth InternationalConference on Spoken Language Processing,Vol.
4, page 1203-1207.K.
Kita, Y. Fukui, M. Jagata and T. Morimoto.1996.
Automatic Acquisition of ProbabilisticDialogue Models.
In Proceedings of lCSLP 96Fourth International Conference on SpokenLanguage Processing, pages 196-199.Clifford Nass, Youngme Moon and Paul Carney.1999.
Are Respondents Polite to Computers?Social Desirability and Direct Responses toComputers.
Journal of Applied Social Psychol-ogy, 29:5, pages 1093-1110.H.
Noguchi and Yasuharu Den.
1998.
Prosody-Based Detection of the Context of Backchan-nel Responses.
In Proceedings of ICSLP 98Fifth International Conference on Spoken Lan-guage Processing, Vol.
2, pages 487-490.David G. Novick and S. Sutton.
1994.
An Empiri-cal Model of Acknowledgment for Spoken-Language Systems.
In Proceedings of the 32ndAnnual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, pages 96-101.Yohei Okato, Keiji Kato, Mikio Yamamoto andShuichi Itahashi.
1998.
System-User Interac-tion and Response Strategy in Spoken Dia-logue System.
Proceedings of lCSLP 98 FifthInternational Conference on Spoken Lan-guage Processing, Vol.
2, pages 495-498.S.
L. Oviatt and P. R. Cohen and M. Wang.
1994.Toward Interface Design for Human LanguageTechnology: Modality and Structure as Deter-minants of Linguistic Complexity.
In SpeechCommunication, 15:3-4, pages 283-300.H.
Sacks, E. Schegloff and G. Jefferson.
1974.
ASimplest Systematics for the Organization ofTurn-Taking in Conversation.
Language,50:696-735.Stephen Sutton, Ronald Cole, Jacques de Villiers,Johan Schalkwyk, Pieter Vermeulen, MikeMacon, Yonghong Yan, Ed Kaiser, Brian Run-die, Khaldoun Shobaki, Paul Hosom, AlexKain, Johan Wouters, Dominic Massaro andMichael Cohen.
1998.
Universal Speech Tools:the CSLU Toolkit.
In Proceedings of the Inter-national Conference on Spoken Language Pro-cessing, pages 3221-3224.Marc Swerts, Hanae Koiso, Atsushi Shimojimaand Yasuhiro Katagiri.
1998.
On DifferentFunctions of Repetitive Utterances.
In Pro-ceedings of lCSLP 98 Fifth International Con-ference on Spoken Language Processing, Vol.2, pages 483-487.Paul Taylor, Alan W. Black and Richard Caley.1998.
The Architecture of the Festival SpeechSynthesis System.
In The Third ESCA/COCOSDA Workshop on Speech Synthesis,pages 147-151.David R. Traum and Peter A. Heeman.
1996.Utterance Units and Grounding in Spoken Dia-logue.
In Proceedings of ICSLP 96 FourthInternational Conference on Spoken Lan-guage Processing, pages 1884-1887.Marilyn A. Walker.
1993.
Informational Redun-dancy and Resource Bounds in Dialogue.
Doc-toral dissertation, University of Pennsylvania.Johan Wouters, Brian Rundle and Michael W.Macon.
1996.
Authoring Tools for SpeechSynthesis using the Sable Markup Standard.
InProceedings of Eurospeech '99.Nigel Ward.
1996.
Using Prosodic Clues to DecideWhen to Produce Back-Channel Utterances.
InProceedings of ICSLP 96 Fourth InternationalConference on Spoken Language Processing,page 1724-1727.287
