An Automatic Reviser: The TransCheck SystemJean-Marc JutrasRALI, Universit6 de Montr6alC.P.
6128, succ.
Centre-ville, Montr6al (QC), Canadajutras@iro.umontreal.caAbstractOver the past decade or so, a lot of workin computational linguistics has beendirected at finding ways to exploit theever increasing volume of electronicbilingual corpora.
These efforts haveallowed for substantial expansion of thecomputational toolbox.
We describe asystem, TransCheck, which makesintensive use of these new tools in orderto detect potential translation errors inpreliminary or non-revised translations.IntroductionFor the sake of argument, let's consider atranslator to be a black box with source textin and target ext out.
We feed that box withtexts and, to be really tricky, we input thesame text a couple of times.
Looking at theresults, the first thing we notice is thatthough the different ranslations are quitesimilar, they're not exactly the same.Nothing to worry about, this may simplyexemplify the potential for synonymy andparaphrase.
But let's further suppose the textto translate is too big for one individual totranslate in the given time frame.
In realisticconditions, uch a text would be split amongperhaps half a dozen translators, each withhis own vocabulary, experience and stylisticpreferences, which would normally lead tothe well known problem of non-uniformityof the translation.It is therefore part of the normaltranslation process to have a reviser look at atranslator's output.
His job will be to spotany typos (taken in a very broad sense toinclude missing chapters!).
Usually, at thispoint the translator probably has submittedthe preliminary version to a spell checker, sowhat could be done automatically at thatlevel has already been done.
No automaticdetection of typical translation mistakes hasbeen attempted though.
That's the gapTransCheck is designed to fill.
The conceptof a "translation checker" was initiallyproposed in Isabelle and al.
\[8\] andeventually led to a demonstration prototypeconcerned with the detection of a veryrestricted type of mistake: deceptivecognates.
In comparison, the systemdescribed in this paper goes much furthertoward a "real " usable translation checkerby allowing for the detection of errors ofomission, the comparison of diversenumerical expressions and the flagging ofinconsistent terminology.On the interface side, it allows for theautomatic alignment of the source and targettexts, the flagging of potential mistakes andthe possibility of saving any modificationsmade to the target ext.I Error detectionComplete automatic modelling of thetranslation process is still far beyond ourtechnical ability.
The same is true of ourability to detect all types of translationmistakes.
We can however, for certain well-defined sub-types of mistake, devise specificmechanisms.
And if a program capable ofdetecting all mistakes of translation wouldundoubtedly be extremely useful, so would127one capable of detecting frequent mistakes,especially when time is short and a thoroughrevision isn't possible.
Errors are then boundto escape the reviser's attention from time totime.
This will not necessary be the case ofan "automatic reviser", though.
In thatrespect, we can compare TransCheck'sbehaviour to the familiar "find and replace"now common to every text editors.
Whowould know consider doing that particulartask by hand?
We now give a shortdescription of those sub-problemsTransCheck is addressing.1.1 Errors of omissionThe ability to automatically detectunintended errors of omission would bemuch valued, as they can prove quiteembarrassing to the translator.
Yet adiversity of situations can lead to such errorsamong which translator's fatigue and theaccidental pressing of a key in a text editor,as was pointed out by Melamed \[12\].Unfortunately, detecting an omission is farfrom being simple when taken in all itsgenerality (from omission of single words towhole chapters).
This is due in part to thefact that one language may express someideas with a greater economy of means thananother, so length difference alone isn'tsufficient to identify omitted text.
Consider:?
French: Quant ~ la section 5, elle fournit lesrrsultats de nos simulations, que suit notreconclusion, h la sixi~me t dernirre section.?
English: Section 5 describes our simulationresults and the final section concludes.Excluding punctuation, the French sentencein the example above has twice as manywords as its English counterpart.
Yet there'snothing wrong with the French translation.The task is therefore to determine whetheror not correspondence at the word level isscattered throughout he whole alignedsegment.
Word alignment in general tends tobe rather fuzzy though, as the followingexample shows:?
French: Voici le plan du document.Literal translation: (Here's) (the) (plan) (ofthe) (document)?
English: The paper is organized as follows.Literal translation: (Le) (papier) (est)(organisr) (comme) (suit)Independently of the exact method used,alignment at the word level for this pair ofsentences would prove to be rather weak.
Itshould be noted however that the aboveexamples are extreme cases and, withoutbeing extremely rare, they aren't exactlytypical either.
They're still a reminder thatsmall omissions are unlikely to be detectedwith sufficient precision considering themethods available to TransCheck.1.2 Normative usage of wordsEntire repositories of usage mistakes andother linguistic difficulties of translationfrom English to French have been written tohelp language professionals become awareof them (Colpron \[3\], Dagenais \[5\], DeVilliers \[6\], Rey \[14\], Van Roey and al.\[17\]).
Unfortunately, those books are onlyuseful to confirm existing suspicions.
Towarn the unsuspecting translator,TransCheck incorporates a repository of thatnature.What's particular about some of thesewords, and of interest for an automaticreviser, is that they cannot be detected by asimple dictionary lookup, for they do appearin a monolingual dictionary.
What's wrongisn't the words themselves but the context inwhich they are used.
Consider, for example,the English word definitely (en effet)together with the French ddfinitivement (forgood, once and for all).
Though very similarin form, and both acceptable adverbs in theirrespective languages, they simply do notmean the same thing.
TransCheck, therefore,looks through aligned pairs of sentences forsuch forbidden word pairs.
It also looks forother types of mistakes, for examplecaiques, which could potentially be detected128by a complex dictionary lookup.
Calquesconsist of sequences of legitimate words thatincorrectly mimic the structure of the otherlanguage by being sort of literal translations.1.3 Numerical expressionsA variety of phenomena c n be found underthis heading (telephone numbers,percentages, fractions, etc.).
One importantpoint these otherwise very diverse types ofconstructions have in common is that, beingopen sets, they cannot be listed inrepositories.
Therefore, their detection willrequire the use of grammatical tools of somesort.
But identification is not enough in mostcases.
Having simply identified "2" in onetext and "two" in the other will not alonepermit heir comparison.
Conversion towarda common form is required.
Part of thisnormalised form must also indicate the typeof phenomenon observed.
This is sobecause, though there is a 6 underlying theordinal sixth, only alignment with an otherordinal of the same value could beconsidered an appropriate match.
InTransCheck, recognition, ormalisation andphenomenon identification of numericalexpressions are done through appropriatetransducers as will be shown in the nextsection.1.4 Terminological coherenceIt's not rare for two or more terms to refer tothe same concept.
However, all things beingequal, it's generally taken to be bad practiceto use more than one of the synonyms fortechnical terms in a given translation.Failure to follow this is referred to asterminological inconsistency.
To try andminimise this problem, each translatorworking on a project is given specificinstructions that involve standardisingterminology.
Unfortunately, it's not rare forsome translators to ignore these instructionsor even for these instructions never to reachthe translator.
Inadequacies are therefore tobe expected, and the bigger the project hemore so.
As an example, given the term airbag and possible translations sac gonflableand coussin gonflable (literally, inflatablebag/cushion), it shouldn't be allowed forboth forms to appear in a given translation,though either one of the two could actuallyappear.2 Tracking mistakesWe have presented briefly the type of errorsdetection TransCheck seeks to accomplishautomatically.
We will now see in moredetails how they are currently beingimplemented.2.1 PrerequisitesIn order for TransCheck to detect potentialtranslation errors, a relatively impressive setof mechanisms is required.
These include:1.
An aligner.
After identification of wordand sentence boundaries the text isprocessed into a bi-text by an alignmentprogram.
This alignment is done on thebasis of both length (Gale and Church\[7\]) and a notion of cognateness (Simard\[161).2.
Transducers.
In order to comparenumerical expressions, which oftendiverge in format between given pairs oflanguages, normalisation toward acommon format is required.
This is donewith transducers (Kaplan and Kay, \[10\]).3.
Part-of-speech tagger.
Misleadingsimilarities in graphical form cansometime induce translation mistakes(deceptive cognates).
~ These forbiddenpairs normally involve only one ofseveral possible parts of speech, hencethe need to disambiguate hem.
We dothis with a first-order HMM part-of-speech tagger (Merialdo \[13\]).I In the rest of the paper, we will use deceptivecognate very Iosely often to refer to normative usageof word in general.1294.
Translation models.
Being robust, thealignment program will align a pair oftexts regardless of possible omissions inthe target ext.
To detect such omissionsof text, a probabilistic bilingualdictionary is called upon.
This dictionarywas estimated along the line of Brownand al.
's first translation model \[2\].
It isused to align (coarsely) at the wordlevel.In what follows, we assume the reader to beat least remotely familiar with most of thesemechanisms.
We will however go into moretechnical details concerning the transducersconsidering the central role they play inTransCheck.2.2 Identifying omissionsGrammatical correctors greatly relies oncomplex grammars to identify "typical"mistakes.
We could imagine doingsomething similar for omission detectiontrying to construct the meaning of everysentences in a text and then "flag" thosewhere semantic discontinuity were found,not unlike what a human would do.
This is,of course, in our wildest dreams as, semanticanalyses still remain to this day extremelyelusive.
Not only that, but unlikegrammatical errors, we cannot anticipatesomething like a "typical" omission as theywill appear randomly and span over anypossible length of text.
We must thereforerecast what appears as a semantic problemin terms of more readily accessible data.
Thebasic idea here is to assimilate an omissionto a particular type of alignment where animportant contiguous et of words present inthe source text cannot belevel with the target ext.mechanisms imilar toRussell \[15\].We can distinguishaligned at the wordFor this we rely onthose described inbetween small (acouple of sentences) and big omissions (anything bigger than a few paragraphs).
Onemight expect he detection of whole missingpages and chapters not to be difficult, butthat's not necessarily true, as the burden ofthe problem then falls on the aligningprogram instead of the checker per  se.Robustness here is the key-word since analignment program that couldn't fall back onits feet after seeing big chunks of missingtext would cause TransCheck to output onlynoise thereafter.
The alignment program weuse is one such robust program which, as afirst step, seeks to approximate the realalignment by drawing lines in regions withhigh densities of cognate words.
Since thedistribution of cognates is a pr ior i  uniformthroughout the text, omitted sections, whenbig enough, will show up on the appropriategraph as an important discontinuity in thoseapproximation lines.
As the omissionsbecome smaller and smaller, however, thecognate's uniform distribution hypothesisbecomes increasingly questionable.
2Still, we are interested in detectingmissing sentences with acceptable precision.Ideally, this should be reflected as an X tozero alignment, but alignment programs tendto associate a high penalty to these cases,preferring to distribute xtra text on adjacentregions.
In order to recover from thesemergings, TransCheck takes a closer look atpairs of aligned texts whenever the lengthratio between source and target text fallsunder a certain threshold.
It then attempts toaligned those pairs at the word level using aprobabilistic bilingual dictionary that wasestimated on the Canadian Hansard.The "Art" of omission detection can beseen as one of trial and error in adjustingprecision and recall by choosing appropriatevalues for what will constitute a significantdifference in length ratio, a significant spanof words that can't be aligned, and thepenalty to be imposed if some wordsz The probability for there to be only a few cognatesbetween say two paragraphs i  very low for Frenchand English, but not that low for two sentences.130accidentally align due to the imprecision ofthe word to word alignment algorithm.As we have just seen, the problem ofdetecting a missing portion of text is, inTransCheck, closely related to that ofalignment, as it can be reduced to amisalignment a the word level.
All the othertypes of errors TransCheck is concernedwith are different in that respect.
Correctalignment is presupposed, and when givenspecific pairs of aligned "tokens" the taskwill be to decide whether they representvalid translations.
We now present he stepsinvolved in this evaluation.2.3  Ident i f i ca t ionIn order for TransCheck to evaluate atranslation pair, their constitutive lementsmust first be identified.
In some cases, thisprocess requires morphological nalysis and,in other, a limited type of syntacticalanalysis.
Both type of analysis serve, to acertain extend, a single purpose: that ofexpressing compactly what would otherwisebe a big list of tokens (in some cases,involving numerical expressions, an infiniteone).
This identification step is done throughappropriate transducers.
Basically, there aretwo things to keep in mind when dealingwith transducers.
One is that, like finite-state-automaton, they behave likerecognisers; that is, when applied to an inputstring, if it can parse it from start to finish,the string is accepted and otherwise rejected.The second is that when doing so, it willproduce an output as a result.
TransCheckrelies on that last property of transducers toproduce a unique representation for tokensthat are different in form, but semanticallyidentical, as we will now see.2.4  Normal i sa t ionThough we will normally be interested inthe identification of every morphologicalform for a given "interesting" token, onceidentified, these differences will bediscarded by TranCheck.
Compare theexamples below.?
Air bag / air bags?
$2,000,000 / two million dollars / $2 million?
June 1st, 2000 / the first of June, 2000The examples above are all in English, butthe same type of diversity can be found inFrench too.
In Figure 1 we can see anexample showing the result of both theprocess of identification (underlined) andnormalisation (=>).Itwilldefinitely => (FAC)74bedonebyJanuaryfirst2001=> (DAT)01012001(DAT) <=01012001(FAC) <=74Ceserafaitavantle?
le___rjanvier2001d6finitivementFig.
1: Token identification and normalisation.
3Notice that the central part of figure 1 actssomewhat like a partial transfer* component(in a word to word translation model)between the French and the English texts.Though we haven't implemented it yet, thiscould be used to present he user with propertranslation suggestions.
5The normalisation process depicted infigure 1, can be slightly complicated by twofactors.
One is the need to disambiguate hepart of speech of the identified token.Consider:3 FAC stands for "faux-amis complets" (deceptivecognates inall contexts)4 In the case of deceptive congnates, we could talk ofa forbidden transfer.5 Transducers can be inverted to create newtransducers that will recognise what was previouslyoutpuned and output what was recognised.131?
French and English: Local --)(POS) NomC(FAC)22Here, the condition field ((POS)NomC))state that only when nouns are involved willwe be in presence of deceptive cognates (butnot, say, when adjectives are involved).Consider now:?
from May 19th to 24th, 1999Here, the dates are intermingled.
Thetransducers we use to analyse suchconstructs will produced two distinctnormalised forms that will both be involvedin the comparison process that follows.2.5 ComparisonThe identification and normalisationprocess described in the previous twosections are common to deceptive cognates,technical terms and numerical expressionsaltogether.
However, the comparison of theresulting normalised forms as well as theprocessing they should further undergo is ofa rather case specific nature.During the comparison process,TransCheck will only be concerned with thenormalised forms resulting from theprevious transduction process (the twocentral columns in figure 1).
Each of thesetwo columns will be considered as a set inthe mathematical sense.
As a consequence,the English sentence in figure 1 and the onegiven below are indistinguishable fromTransCheck's point of view.?
It will definitely, and I mean definitely,be done by January first, 2001.Of course, both occurrences of the worddefinitely will be flagged if the decision toflag either one is eventually taken.
Each ofthese two sets will then be split into up tothree subsets depending on whether theycorrespond to numerical expressions,deceptive cognates or technical terms.
Atthis point the comparison process will bevery simple.
Given these subsets, thematching conditions will simply amount othe following:?
If a numeral expression appears in onelanguage but not in the other, flag it.?
If a deceptive cognate appears in bothlanguages, flag it.?
If a term was requested to be flagged,flag it.2.6 Putting it all togetherTo recapitulate, the transducers we use inTransCheck all have the general form:-String of interest -')(condition )(type )identifierIf a transducer identifies a string of interestand if boundary conditions are met,information about the nature of the stringwill be outputted.
In a second step, theinformation from one language will have tobe matched against he information from theother in accordance with the conditionimposed by the specific nature of theidentified strings.3 The TransCheck PrototypeIn the previous section, we have describedwhat happens when a bi-text is submitted toTransCheck.
We now turn to the steps thatwill lead to a request.Currently, TransCheck's interface isimplemented in Tcl/Tk.
This has allowed usto develop a proof of concept withoutpreoccupying ourselves with wordprocessing particularities.
The down side tothis is a limitation to ascii characters thatwill eventually have to be overcome bymaking TransCheck part of a text editor notunlike a spell checker.But for the time being, a TransChecksession would look something like this: Theuser selects through an interface a Frenchand an English text specifying with a radio-button which of the two is the source text.
66 The system was initialy developed having in mind132Then the name of an alignment file issupplied (it will be created if it doesn'talready exist).
These are the minimal stepsthat must be taken before any analysis cantake place.
If, at this point, the bi-text issubmitted for analysis, TransCheck will useall of it's default values and, after somewindow pop-up and progress report, awindow containing the target text willappear on screen together with the sourcetext facing it.
All the potential errors willappear highlighted.
At this point, the usercan modify the target text to correct anyfound errors.
When the session ends, themodified text will be saved (together withthe appropriately modified alignment file).We've just seen TransCheck's defaultbehaviour.
The user is also offered somecustomisation possibilities.
This includeshighlighting only those type of errors ofinterest o the user and setting the alignmentparameters.
The omission detectionparameters can also be modified through aninterface.
Also, since as with any normativejudgement, what is and what isn't a "correct"form will always be subject to debate,TransCheck allows the user to silence thosealleged mistakes causing too much noise ona given text.
Finally, the human reviser isallowed, any time during a session, tomodify TransCheck's behaviour so thatnewly identified incorrect terms will beflagged thereafter, this to ensure that none ofsubsequent occurrences of these errors willescape his attention.
This list of forbiddenterms can be saved in order to constituteclient specific databases o that identifiedproblems will not be lost between projects.4 Further development and discussionAt present, TransCheck allows for onlylimited customisation.
However, we are wellaware that the repositories available for saydeceptive cognates are costly to develop andEnglish as the source text.
Currently, this is stillreflected only in the deceptive cognate database.tend to include only those mistakes having acertain "history" (stability over time).
Thatsuggests the user should be allowed to addnew pairs of prohibited translations on thefly.
In most cases, however, adding newbehaviour is a complex process availableonly to the system's designer because ofmorphology and part-of-speechconsiderations.
Added flexibility in thisregard seems mandatory.
Since we cannotexpect he human reviser to concern himselfwith such technical details, these wouldhave to be hidden from him throughadequate input interfaces.
This flexibilityseems to be desired independently from thenow emerging problem of localisation.
7 Weare currently addressing these issues one at atime.So far, we have described the types oferrors TransCheck is concerned with, theway they are handled and how some aspectsof the processing can be customised.
Nofigures as to precision and recall have beengiven though.
This is in part due to thedifficulty of finding preliminary translationsand in part to TransCheck's customisability.For example, performance on omissiondetection will ultimately depend on theuser's selected values.
It seems to us that thebest way to address both of these problemsshould be to actually put the system in thehands of human revisers and monitor thechanges they would actually choose tomake.
Efforts in that direction are currentlybeing made.ConclusionTo our knowledge, TransCheck is stillunique among text checkers in addressingthe problem of translation errors.
For a longtime, only a concept without form,TransCheck, as presented in this paper, hasshown the concept of a translation checker7 Adaptation of a text for use in a different region.For example, Canadian postal code (AIB 2C3)compared to American Zip Code (12345).133to be sound and realistic.
Admittedly, a lotof work, especially on the specificgrammars, still has to be done.
But all thisnow seems like a worthwhile effortconsidering that the resulting program couldhelp translators considerably in their effortsto meet the quality requirements and tightdeadlines they are frequently facing.
Wehave also stressed TransCheck's adaptabilityto be somewhat limited.
The problem seemsmore one of ergonomics than of principle,though.
Interfaces would have to be devisedto guide users through the sometimecomplicated steps associated with addingnew restrictions.
We are now consideringthe possibility of integrating TransCheck inan off-the-shelf text editor to cross the asciibarrier.AcknowledgementsI would like to thank Elliott Macklovich,Claude B6dard, Mich~le Lamarche and GuyLapalme for their invaluable comments ondrafts of this paper.References\[1\] Brown P., Cocke J., Della Pietra S., Della PietraV., Jelinek F., Lafferty J., Mercer R., Roosin P., A.
(1990) Statistical Approach to MachineTranslation.
Computational Linguistics, 16, pp.79-85.\[2\] Brown P., Della Pietra S., Della Pietra V.,Mercer R. (1993) The Mathematics of MachineTranslation: Parameter Estimation tatisticalApproach to Machine Translation.
ComputationalLinguistics, 19, pp.
263-311.\[3\] Colpron, G. (1982) Dictionnaire d'anglicismes.Laval (Qu6bec), t~ditions Beauchemin.\[4l Dagan, I and Church K. (1997) Termight:Coordinating Humans and Machines in BilingualTerminology Acquisition.
Machine Translation, 12,pp.
89-107.\[5\] Dagenais, G. (1984) Dictionnaire des diJficultdsde la langue fran(aise au Canada.
Boucherville,Les l~ditions franqaises.\[6\] De Villiers, J.-l~.
(1988) Multidictionnaire desdifficult$s de la langue fran(aise.
Montr6al,l~ditions Qu6bec/Am&ique.\[7l Gale, W., Church K. (1991) A Program forAligning Sentences in Bilingual Corpora.Proceedings of the 29 ~h Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,Berkeley, pp.
177-184.\[8\] Isabelle P. and al.
(1993) Translation Analysisand Translation Automation.
Proceedings of theFifth International Conference on Theoretical andMethodological Issues in Machine Translation(TMI-93), Kyoto, pp.
201-217.\[9\] Justeson, J. and Slava K. (1995) TechnicalTerminology: some linguistic properties and analgorithm for identification in text.
NaturalLanguage Engineering, 1, pp.
9-28.\[10\] Kaplan, R. M., Kay, M. (1994) Regular Modelsof Phonological Rule Systems, ComputationalLinguistics, 20, pp.
331-378.\[11\] Macklovitch, E. (1996) Peut-on v~rifierautomatiquement la cohdrence terminologique?Meta, 41, pp.
299-316.\[12\] Melamed, I. D. (1996) Automatic Detection ofOmissions in Translations.
In the 16 tn InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics.Copenhagen, pp.
764-769.\[13\] Merialdo, B.
(1994) Tagging English Text witha Probabilistic Model.
Computational Linguistics,20, pp.
155-168.\[ 14\] Rey J.
(1984) Dictionnaire s~lectif et comment~des difficult~s de la version anglaise.
Paris,l~ditions Ophrys.\[15\] Russell, G. (1999) Errors of omission intranslation.
Proceedings of the Eighth InternationalConference on Theoretical and MethodologicalIssues in Machine Translation (TMI-99), Chester,1999, pp.
128-138.\[16\] Simard M., Foster G. and Isabelle P. (1992)Using Cognates to Align Sentences in ParallelCorpora.
Proceedings of the Fourth InternationalConference on Theoretical and MethodologicalIssues in Machine Translation (TMI-92), Montr6al,pp.
67-81.\[17\] Van Roey, J., Granger S. and Swallow J.
(1988)Dictionnaire des faux amis fran(ais-anglais.
Paris,Duculot.134
