TEXT ANALYSIS: SESSION INTRODUCTIONDonald E. WalkerAr t i f i c ia l  InCeUigence  CanCerSRI lncernaCionalMenlo Park, CA 94025Text analysis I s  a promis ing area  fo rapp l l caC lons  of compuCaClonal l ingu is t i cs ,  wlchregard  bosh Co the prospeces  fo r  Cechnologlca lachievement and co the potent ia l  benef i ce  thacchose achievements can prov ide .
Books, a r t i c les ,and documents in cexC form are a major  source o fin fo rmat ion .
Being able Co use computers moreeffecclvely in the analysis of chess maCerlalswould have slgnificanC impl lcaClons fo r  v i rCua l lyevery  in te l lec tua l  ac t iv i ty .
Moreover, deve lop-manes in chis area are essantlal if mankind is Cocake advantage of  as wel l  as merely  Co cope wishthe vase quant i ty  of  textua l  data a l ready  s toredin  computer--readable form, an amount that  i sincreasing rapidly because of the use of computer-d i rec ted  photocompos i t ion  for  p r in t ing  and thepracC lca l i cy  of  opt i ca l  character  recogn i t iontechn iques .I f ind  lC use fu l  to d i s t ingu ish  s ix  k inds ofoperat ions  chac can be performed on a g iven  bodyof text : "(1) Segmentat ion - -break  the text  up in to  ICeconst i tuent  e lements;  a t  the lowest  leve l  th i soperat ion  ident i f ies  the "e lementary  un i ts "  Inthe text ,  presuming,  of  course ,  that  there  i s  aparClcular seC of criteria for the i rdeterminat ion ;  somewhat h igher ,  I t  segregatesgrammatical and semanCic units within asentence; more soph is t i ca ted  proceduresde l ineate  d i scourse  s t ruc tures .
(2) Representat ion - -character i ze  the in forma-t ion  conta ined in the text ;  th i s  operat ion  canbe as s imple as ass ign ing  a set  of index tensor as complicated as creating a set ofpredicate/argument structures re la t ing  thevar ious  e lements in the text ;  summaries andabst rac ts  of the text  const i tu te  in termed ia terepresentat ions .
(3) Classlflcation--identify the text  assimilar to and different from other texts inrelation to a see of predetermined categories;this operation establishes the position of thetext In.some more general fr~unework.
(4) Modlfication--~hange the wording of somepar t  of the text; thls operation corresponds toNote that generation, the creation of the textitself, i s  presumed for  this d iscuss ion ,  and thattranslaclon of a ~exC turn another language lsalso nor inc luded.the casks o f  rewr i t ing  par ts  o f  the text  aswe l l  as making cor rect ions ;  i t  begs thequasClon of  when the mod i f i ca t ion  issu f f i c ient ly  la rge  to resu l t  in cons ider ing  thetext  to be new.
(5) Convers ioQ- -Crans for~ content  e lements  fromthe text  in to  some other  nontextua l  or  at  leas tnonsequent ia l  s t ruc ture ;  in  th i s  operat ionin fo rmat ion  i s  ext rac ted  from the text  andreorgan ized  accord in  8 to externa l ly  determinedc r i te r ia .
(6)  D i f fe rent ia t ion - - locate  par t i cu la r  const i -tuents  t r tch/n a text ;  th i s  operat ion  f indschose elements Chat whol ly  o r  par t ia l l y  march ag iven spec i  f lea  C?on.I t  should be c lear ,  on re f lec t ion ,  that  theseoperat ions  over lap  in  complex ways; some presumeothers ;  moreover,  the i r  e f faces  ere s t rong lycontext  dependent,  re f lec t ing  the purpose and thepar t i cu la r  framework fo r  the ana lys i s .
While Imake no sarong c la ims fo r  the i r  u t i l i ty ,  I be l ievechat i t  i s  impor tant  fo r  the f ie ld  to d i s t ingu ishthe d i f fe rent  k inds of th ings  that  people want todo wi th  texts .The s ix  papers  inc luded in the sess ions  ontext  ana lys i s  aC th i s  conference i l lus t ra te  thebeginnings of a technology that will allow us toaddress  some of the under ly ing  i ssues .
Three ofthem deal  wlth the problem of conversion;specifically, they show how information can beextracted from a text and formatted for storage ~na database .In "Spec ia l i zed  in fo rmat ion  ext rac t ion :auComaClc chemical  reaction coding from Englishdescriptions," Larry H. Reeker, Elaine M. Zamora,and Paul E. Blower present  a system that  ext ractsinformation on chemical  reactions from theexperimental sections of papers in specializedchemistry Journals, converting l~ Into a formatthat chemists use to identify that kind of data.James R. Cowle, in his paper "Automaticanalysis of descriptive texts," describes a systemfor interpreting texts that contain stylizeddescriptions, like those in cata logues  anddirectories.
He shows how examples from a fieldguide Co wild flowers can be processed to Identifyattributes characteristic of plants, which arethen scored in  a canonical form.107"Automatic representation of the semanticrelationships corresponding to a French surfaceexpression" describes the procedures Gian PleroZarri is using to analyze statements about Frenchhistorical events so they can he translated Intothe complex semantic data definition languageestablished for the RESEDA system.All three of these systems entail selectingtexts wlth specialized language character i s t i cs ,res t r i c ted  sub jec t  mat ter ,  and a l im i ted  number ofd isc rete  parameters  into which the in fo rmat ionext rac ted  i s  Co be scored .
None of the papersd i scusses  the procedures  fo r  access ing  theinformation once stored, although all considersuch procedures  to be an essential component of amore comprehensive retrieval system.
KESEDA is aspecial case, because It already has a facilityestablished to retrieve data stored In the systemand to make inferences based on those data.In cont ras t  to the preced ing  papers ," 'Exper tness  ?
from s t ructured  text?
~ECONSIDER: ad iagnost i c  prompt ing program,"  by Mark S. Tur t le ,David D. ShererCz,  Marsden S. S lo i s ,  and Stuar tNelson, begins wlth a text  in which theinformation is already highly structured.
Itcontains, for a large number of diseases,descriptions of the medical characteristicsassociated wlth each, which are stored as aninverted file index.
Presented wlth the findingsfor a particular patient, the system identifiesthe disease or diseases whose characteristicscorrespond most closely to them.
The authors areparticularly interested in deter~Inlng how such atext can be modified to enhance the effectivenessof the retrieval process.The paper by George Vladutz, "Naturallanguage text segmentation techniques applied tothe automat ic  compi la t ion  of  p r in ted  sub jec tindexes and for online database access," focuseson the segmentation of self-contalned textfragments into semantlc-related constituents.
Heshows how titles from bibliographic citations canbe processed to identify phrases that can be usedin a Key Word Phrase subject index.
The method,intended for application over a broad range oftopics, is based on a predetermined llst ofnominal syntactic patterns that can be recognizedusln E a small, domaln-lndependent dictionary.
"Using natural language descriptions toimprove the usability of databases," by Carole D.Hafner and John D. Joyce, shows a set ofprocedures for identifying text phrases thatcorrespond to classes of objects in a database.The authors have made extensions to the commandlanguage of a relational data management system sothat users can name and describe database objectsusing natural language phrases.
Computationallinguistic techniques make it possible torecognize partly specified names and to allowpartial recovery from ambiguity through anidentification of context.The approaches presented in these papersderive primarily from work on the syntactic andsemantic analysis of structures at the lexical orsentence level.
None as yet builds on morecomplex procedures that reflect discourseproperties of text coherence and cohesion.Further research on pragmatics and speech actscertainly is essential for some kinds of progress.However, there are other directions to pursue.One that seems important is determining howexisting knowledge resources can be applied to theproblem, People certainly make use, bothexplicitly and implicitly, of a variety of aidswhen they analyze texts.
Particularly worthconsidering are dictionaries, a number of whichare now available in machlne-readable form,reference materlals that contain biographical,geographical, or other specialized kinds ofinformation, and encyclopedias.
We need toestablish procedures that will allow theseresources to be used in text analysis.
It is alsoappropriate to note that we do not have much dataon the features of any body of text that mightserve as a standard for comparison, much less thedetailed studies of the characteristics of textsof all kinds that will be essential to ensurecontinuing progress in thls field.
A systematics tudy  of the varieties of texts and of thepurposes for which they can analyzed would provideuseful guidelines for research at thls stage ofour understanding.108
