AUTOMATIC ANALYSIS OF DESCRIPTIVE TEXTSJames R. CowlsComputer CentreUn ivers i ty  of S t ra thc lyde ,Royal Co l lege,  George St reet ,Glasgow, GI IXI~.
SCOTLANDABSTRACTThis paper descr ibes  a system that  a t temptsto in terpret  descr ip t ive  texts  w i thout  the uJe ofcomplex grammars.
The purpose of the system is  tot rans form the descr ip t ions  to a s tandard  formwhich may be used as the bas is  of a database sys -tem knowledgeable in  the sub jec t  mat ter  of theteXt.The texts  cur rent ly  used are wi ld p lantdescr ip t ions  taken d i rec t ly  from a popu lar  bookon the sub jec t .
P roper t ies  such as s i ze ,  shapeand co lour  are abst rac ted  from the descr ip t ionsand re la ted  to par ts  of the p lant  in which we arein teres ted .
The resu l t ing  output  i s  a s tandar -dined h ie rarch ica l  s t ruc ture  ho ld ing only s ign i -f i cant  features of the descr ip t ion .The system, implemented in  the PROLOG pro -gramming language,  uses keywords co ident i fythe way segments of the text  re la te  to the ob jec tdescr ibed .
In fo rmat ion  on words is held in akeyword l i s t  of nouns re la t ing  to par ts  of theob ject  descr ibed .
A d ic t ionary  conta ins  the a t -t r ibutes  of ord inary  words used by the system toana lyse  the text .
The text  i s  d iv ided in to  seE"ments us ing in fo rmat ion  provided by con junct ionsand punctuat ion .About half the texts processed are correct-ly analysed at present.
Proposals are made forfu ture  work to improve this figure.
There seemsCo be no inherent reason why the technique cannotbe generalised so chac any text of seml-standarddescriptions can be automatically converted to acanonical form.I INTRODUCTIONA lot of useful information, covering manysubject areas, is presently available in pr in tedform in catalogues, directories and guides.
Good"examples are plants in "Collins Pocket Guide toWild Flowers", aeroplanes in "Jane's All theWorld's Aircraft" and people in '~ho's Who".
Be-cause chls informaClon is represented in a styl-ised form, it is amenable CO machine processingCo abstract salient details concerning the entitybeing described.
The research described here ispar t  of a long term pro jec t  to develop a systemwhich can "read" descr ip t ive  text  and so becomean expert  on the -~ter ia l  which has been read.The f i r s t  s tage  of th i s  research  is  to es -tab l i sh  that  i t  i s  indeed poss ib le  co abst rac tuse fu l  in fo rmat ion  from descr ip t ive  text  and wehave chosen as a typ ica l  example a text  cons is t -ing of descr ip t ions  of wi ld  p lants .
Our systemreade th i s  text  and generates  a formal  canon ica lp lant  descr ip t ion .
U l t imate ly  th i s  w i l l  be in -put to a knowledse-baeed system which will thenbe able to answer quest ions  on wild plants.The paper g ives  a l im i ted  overview of therecent  work in text  ana lys i s  in o rder  to es tab-l i sh  a context  fo r  the approach we adopt .
Anoutline of the operat ion  of the system is thennadeoThe ana lys i s  of our  text  proceeds in  fourseparate  s tages  and these  are cons idered  in con-Junct ion  with a sample text .
The f i r s t  s tage  a t -Caches to each word in the text  a t t r ibutes  whichare held in either a keyword llst or the systemd ic t ionary .
This expanded text  is then split upus ing con junct ions ,  punctuat ion  marks and thekeywords in the text  to ass ign  each segment ofthe text  to a par t i cu la r  par t  of the p lant .
Thechard s tage  gathers  up the descriptions fo r  apar t i cu la r  par t  and abst rac ts  p roper t ies  fromthem.
The final operation formats the output asrequired.We then look at the more detailed operationof the system in terms of specific parts of ?n-teresto This covers the dictionary, skeletonstructures, text  splitting, text  analysis and thelimited word guessing attempted by the system.Future developments are then considered.
Inparticular the possibility of generalising thesystem to handle ocher topics.
The actual imple-mentation of the system and the use of FROLOG areexamined and we conclude with some notes on thecurrent ucillty of our system.II BACKGROUNDMany research workers are interested indifferent aspects of text analysis.
Much of theI17emphasis of this work depends on the  use of so-phisticated grammars to map to the internalrepresentation.
The work done by Schank (197~)and that of Sager (1981) are two contrasting ex-amples of this interest.
In addition to theresearch oriented work, some commercial groupsare interested in the practicability of generat-ing database input from text.its properties in a slnEle piece of text.
Thebasic properties we are lookin 8 for - shape,colour, size - are all described by words wi~h adirect physical relation or with a simple men~alassociation.
What we are really trying to do istidy the description into a set of suitable nounphrases .Although the internal details of the vari-ous systems are totally different the finalresult is some form of layout, script or struc-ture which has been filled out with details fromthe text.
The approach of the various groups canbe contrasted according to how much of the textis preserved at  this point and how much addition-al detail has been added by the system.
DeJong(1979) processes newswire stories and once thekey elements have been found the rest of the textis abandoned.
Sager makes the whole text fit intothe layout as here small details ~ay be of vitalimportance to the end user of the processed text.Schank in his story understanding programs mayactually end up with more information than theoriginal text, supplied from the system's ownworld knowledge.The other contrasting factor is the degreeof limitation of the  domain of interest of thetext  processors.
The more a system has beendesigned with a practical end in view, the morelimited the domain.
Schank is operatlng at thelevel of general language understanding.
DeJongis limiting this to the task of news recognitionand abstraction, but only certain stories arehandled by the system.
Sager has reduced therange still further to a particular type of medi-cal diagnoses.Very recent work appears to be approachingtext understanding from a word orientedviewpoint.
Each word has associated with itprocesses which drive the analysis of the text(S~ail, 198\[).
We have also been encouraged inour own approach by Kelly and Stone's (1979) workon word dlsamblguation.
The implication of whichseems to be that word driven rules can resolveambiguities of meaning in a local context.Our own case is a purely practical attemptto generate large amounts of database buildinginformation from single topic texts.
It shouldnot be assumed however that a truly comprehensivesyntax for a descriptive text would be simplerthan for other types.
The reverse may be trueand the author of the descriptions may attempt toliven up his work with asides, unusual word-orders and additional atmospheric details.Our system does not use sophisticated gram-marital techniques.
It is our contention that inthe domain of descriptive texts we can make cer-tain assumptions about the way the descriptivedata is handled.
These allow very crude parsingto be sufficient in most cases.Similarly the semantic structures involvedare simple.
A description of an object consistingof several parts usually mentions the part andIII OUTLINE OF TME SYSTEMThe text analysis system has been con-structed on the assumption that much of the in-formation held in descriptive texts can be ex-tracted using very simple rules.
These rules areanalogous to the "sketchy syntax" suggested byKelly and Stone and operate on the text on a lo-cal rather than a global basis.At the time of writing our system processesplant descriptions, in search of ten proper t ieswhich we consider distinctive.
Examples of theseproperties are the size of the plant, the colourof its flowers and the shape of its flowers.
Newproperties can be added simply by extending theskeleton plant description.Example I.
A Sample AnalysisSMALL BUGLOS$.An erect bristly annual, up to a fooC high, withwavy lanceolate leaves and small blue flowerswhich are the only ones of their family to havetheir corolla-tube kinked at the base; calyx withlanceolate teeth, hardly enlarging but muchexceeding the fruit.
Rabitat: Widespread and lo-cally frequent in open spaces on light soils.April onwards.TOPIC COMPONENT PROPERTY PROPERTYPARTS NAMES VALUESplantgenera lname small buglosssize a foot highflowerleafcolour blueshape noinfosize smallshape wavy lanceolatesize noinfocolour noinfohabitatgeog-location widespreadseason april onwardsFigurl t.  System Outlined ic t ionaryexpandedtext' a  .sesmenced~excplants t ructurefinaloutputout l inestructurepropertyrulesI19The texts being processed are plantdescriptions as found in McCllntock and Fitter(1974).
The system has been built to handlethis topic and it attempts to fill out variousproperties for selected parts of a plant.
Askeleton description is used to drive the pro-cessing of the text.
This indicates the parts ofthe plant of interest and the properties requiredfor each  part.The structure which we presently use isshown in Example I after it has been filled outby processing the accompanying description.
Itshould be noted that if the system cannot find aproperty then the null property "nolnfo' is re-turned.An outline of how a description is pro-cessed by the system and converted to canonicalform is given in Figure i.
There are four dis-tinct stages in the transformation of the text.each with an attached keyword.
This keyword In-dentlfles the text as describing a particularpart of the plant.
Text segments are gatheredtogether for a particular keyword.
This may pulltogether text from separate parts of the originaldescriptionThis new unit of text is then examined tosee if any of the words or phrases in it satisfythe specific property rules required for thispart of the plant.
If found the phrases are in-serted into appropriate parts of the structure.D.
Formatter.The ultimate output of the system is in-tended as input to a relational database systemdeveloped at the University of Strathclyde.
Atthe moment the structure is displayed in a formthat allows checking of the system performance.A.
Dictionary processor.The raw text is read in and each word inthe text is checked in a dlctionary/keyword llst.Each dictionary entry has an associated list ofattributes describing both syntactic and semanticattributes of that word.
These attributes arelooked at in more detail in section IV.
If aword in the text appears in the dictionary it issupplemented with an attribute llst abstractedfrom the dictionary.The keywords for a text depend on whichparts of the object we are interested.
Thus for aplant we need to include all possible variants offlower (floret, bud) and of leaf (leaflet) and soon.
Fortunately this is not a large number ofwords and they can be easily acquired from athesaurus.The output from this stage is a llst ofwords and attached to each word is a llst of theattributes of this word.8.
Text splitting.The expanded text ks then burst into seg-ments associated with each keyword.
We identifysegments by using "pivotal points" in the text.Pivotal points are pronouns, conjuntlons, prepo-sitions and punctuation marks.
This is the sim-plifying assumption which we make which allowsus to avoid detailed grammars.
The actual wordsand punctuation marks chosen to split the textare critical to the success of this method.
Itmay be necessary to change these for texts by adifferent author as each author's usage of punc-tuation is fairly Idiosynchratic.
Within a givenwork however fairly consistent results are ob-tained.
The actual splitting of the text iscovered more fully An section IV C.C.
Text analysis.We now have many small segments of textIV SYSTEM DETAILSA.
ThE DictionaryThe dictionary is the source of the mean-ings of words used during the search for proper-ties.
Two other word sources are incorporated inthe system, a llst of keywords which is specificto the subject being described and a list ofwords which may be used to split the text.
Thissecond list could probably be incorporated in thedictionary, but we have avoided this until thesystem has been generallsed to handle other typesof text.The dictionary entry for each word consistsof three lists of attributes.
The first containsit's part of speech, a flag indicating the wordcarries no semantic information and some addi-tional attributes to control processing.
For ex-ample the attribute "take-next" indicates that ifa property rule is already satisfied when thisword is reached in the text then the next wordshould be attached to the property phrase alreadyfound.
Thus the word "-" carries this propertyand pulls in a successive word.The second llst contains attributes whosemeaning would appear to  be expressible as a phy-sical measure of some kind:- "touch-roughness","vision-intenslty".
Many of the words used indescriptions can be adequately categorised by asingle attribute of this type.
Thus the word redis an "adjective" with a physical property"vlslon-colour".The third contains those which require phy-sical measures to  be mapped and compared tointernal representations or which deal with themanipulation of internal representations alone:-"form-shape", "context-location".
Words usingthese attributes generally tend to be more com-plex and may have multiple attributes.
Thus theword field has as attributes "context-location"120and "relaclonshlp-multlple-example" whereas theword Scot land also car r ies  "context - locat ion"  butis qualified by "relatlonship-single-example".We rea l i ze  th i s  cLtvis?on is  de l imi ted  by anextremely  fuzzy border ,  but when the search  fo r  abas is  for word definition was made ch ls  helpedthe in tu i t i ve  a l locat ion  of  a t t r ibutes .
S ix tyf i ve  d i f fe rent  a t t r ibutes  have been a l located .Only s ix teen  of these are  used in the ru les  fo rour cur rent  l i s t  of p roper t ies .The s ize  of the d ic t ionary  has been cons id -e rab ly  reduced by inc lud ing  the a lgor i thm,  g ivenby Kelly and Stone (1979), fo r  su f f i x  removal inthe lookup process .B.
Skeleton St ructureThe s t ructure  we wish to f i l l  ouC i s  mappedd i rec t ly  to a h ie rarch ica l  PROLOG s t ructure  wi ththe un ins tant ia ted  var iab les ,  shown in the s t ruc -ture  in capital letters, indicating where piecesof text are required.
The PROLOC system fills inthese  var iab les  at run time wi th  the appropr ia tewords from the text .
Each var iab le  in a complet -ed s t ruc ture  should hold a llst of words whichdescr ibe  that  par t i cu la r  p roper ty .
Thus a par t ia lp lant  s t ruc ture  is  def ined as : -p lant (genera l (s i ze (G l ) ,name(G2),),flower(colour(Fl),shape(F2) ,),).This skeleton is accompanied by a set ofkeyword lists.
Each llst being associated withone of the first levels of the structure.
Thus apartial I/st for ?flower" ~/ght be:-keyword(flower,l).keyword(bud,l).keyword(pecal,l).keyword(floret,l).The number indicates which item on thefirst level of the structure is associated withthese keywords.another ,We assume in i t ia l l y  that  we are descr ib ingthe genera l  deta i l s  of the p lant ,  so the textread up to the f i r s t  p ivota l  poin~ belongs tothat  par t  of our s t ruc ture ,  keyword leve l  O.Each subsequent  p iece of text  found ass igns  tothe same keyword unt i l  a p iece of text  i s  foundcontaining ?
new keyword.
This becomes thecurrent keyword and following pieces of cex~ be-long to th i s  kayword unt i l  yec another  keyword isfound.D.
Proper t  7 gu lesWe now gather  together  the p ieces  of textfo r  a par t  of the s t ruc ture  and look fo r  p roper -t ies  as def ined An the ske le ton  s t ruc ture .
Aproper ty  search  i s  car r ied  out fo r  each of theproperty names found at level two of the strut-cure.
The property rules have the general form:-See "proper ty"  to NOrepeat (examine a t t r ibuces  of next wordif(suitable modifier attributes)then keep wordi~(su l tab le  proper ty  a t t r ibutes )then keep word and set  "proper ty '  to YESi f (no  su i tab le  a t t r ibutes  and "propercy ' I s  NO)then throw away any words kept so farif(no suitable attributes and 'propertythen exlc repeatif(no more words)then exit repeat}if('property" is YES) then return words keptif('property" is NO) then return "nolnfo'.?
is YES)C. Text SplittingThe fundamental assumption we make fordescriptions of objects is that the partdescribed will be mentioned within the piece ofcexc referring to ic.
Thus conjunctions and punc-tuation marks are taken to flag pivotal points lothe text where attention shifts from one part to121E.
Special Purpose RulesWe are trying to avoid rules specificallyassociated with layout which would need redeflnl-tion for different texts.
However the system doesassume a certain ordering in the initial title ofthe descriptions.
Thus the name of the plant isany adjectives followed by a word or words not inthe dictionary.
It is intended to add rules todetect the Latin specific name of the plant.
Wehave excluded these from our current texts.These will in all probability be based on asimilar rule of ignorance, reinforced by someknowledge of permissible suffices.F.
Specially Recosnised WordsCertain words are identified in the dlc-tlonary by the attributes "take-next" and "take-previous".
They imply that if a property rule issatisfied at the time that word is processed thenthe successor or predecessor of that word and theword itself should be included in the property.The principal use of this occurs in hyphenatedwords.
These are treated as three words;  wordl,hyphen, word2.
The hyphen carries both "take-next" and "take-previous" attributes.
This oftenallows attachment of unknown words in a propertyphrase.
Thus "chocolate-brown" would be recog-nlsed as a colour phrase despite the fact thatthe word chocolate is not included in the dic-tionary.Words which actually name the property be-ing sought after carry a "take-previous" a~tri-bute.
Thus "coloured" when found will pull in theprevious word e.g.
"butter colour" although theword butter may be unknown or have no specificdictionary attribute recognised by the rule.particular, we intend to provide a user interfaceto allow the system to be modified for a specifictopic by user definitions and examples.The potential also exists for mapping from ourword based internal representation to a moreabstract machine manipulable form.
This may bethe most interesting direction in which the workwill lead.
?I I~LEMENTAT IONThe code for the system is written in PRO-LOG (Clocksln and Mellish, 1981) as implementedon the Edinburgh Multi Access System (Byrd,1981).This is a standard implementation of thelanguage, with the  single enhancement of a secondinternal database which is accessed using a hash-ing algorithm rather than a linear search.
Thishas been used to improve the efficiency of thedictionary search procedures.PROLOG was chosen as an implementationlanguage mainly because of the ease of manipula-tion of structures, lists and rules.
The skeletonplant and keyword lists are held as facts in thePROLOG database.
The implementation of the suf-fix stripping algorithm is a good example of theease of expressing algorithms in PROLOG.
The map-ping from the original to our code being almostone to one.V FURTHER DEVELOPMENTSIn the short term, the size of the diction-ary and the rules built into the system must beincreased so that a higher proportion of descrip-tions are correctly processed.
Another problemwhich we must handle is the use of qualifiersreferring to previous descriptions e.g.
'darkergreen" or "much less hairy than the lastspecies'.
We intend to tackle this problem bymerging the current canonical description withthat of plants referred to previouslyIt would appear from work that has beencarried out on dictionary analysis (Amsler, 1981)that a less intuitive method of word meaningcategorization may be available.
If it provespossible to ~ap from a standard dictionary to ourset of attributes or some related set then therigour of out internal dictionary would be signi-ficantly improved and a major area of repetitivework might be removed from the system.It is also intended to extend the suffixalgorithm to handle prefixes and to convert thepart of speech attribute according to thetransformations carried out on the word.
Thishas not proved important to us up to the presentbut future uses of the dictionary may depend onits being handled correctly.In the longer term we intend to generallsethe system to cope with other topic areas.
InIn addition the implementation on EMAS al-lows large PROLOG programs to be run.
The inter-pretive nature of the language also means thattrace debugging facilities are available and newpieces of code can be easily incorporated intothe system.Vll CONCLUSIONSInitial indications suggest that for about50% of descriptions, all ten properties arecorrectly evaluated and for about 30%, 8 or 9properties are correct.
The remaining 20% areunacceptable as less than 8 properties arecorrectly determined by the system.We anticipate that increasing the knowledge baseof the system will significantly increase its ac-curacy.The very primitive "sketchy syntax" ap-proach appears to offer practical solutions inanalysing descriptive texts.
Furthermore, thereseems to be no intrinsic reason why a similarmethod could not be used to analyse temporal orcausal structures.
There will always be segmentsof text that the system cannot cope with and toachieve a greater degree of accuracy we will needto allow the system to consult with the user inresolving difficult pieces of text.122The s t ructured  nature of the system outputa l lows the poss ib i l i ty  of bu i ld ing  a complex da-tabase system.
A dace base system based on theraw text  a lone has no ab i l i ty  to d l sc lngu lsh  towhich par t  of an ob jec t  any proper ty  belongs asi t s  searches  are made on the bas is  of keywordsalone wi thout  caking contextua l  in fo rmat ion  in toaccott~t.VIII ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSI would l l ke  co thank the d i rec tor  of theComputer Centre Mr. Grant F raser  fo r  makingava i lab le  time co car ry  ouc th l s  work and my su -perv l sor  Dr. fan $o- - .
- rv l l l e  fo r  h is  help in thedevelopment of the system and in  the wr i t ing  ofth l s  paper .IX REFERENCESAmBler, Robert A.
A Taxono~/ fo r  Eng l l sh  Nounsand Verbs.
Proc .
19oh Annual ACL, 1981, 133-138.Byrd, Lawrence, ed.
A User ' s  Guide co EMAS PRO-LOG.
D.A.Z.
Occas ional  Paper No.
26.
Depar tmncof A .
I .
Edinburgh Un lvers l ty ,  1981.Clocksln, William F. and Christopher $.
Hellish.Programalng in PROLOG.
Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag,  1961.DeJong, Gerald F. Sklmalns Stories In Real Time.Research Report 158.
Department of Computer Scl-ence, Yale University, 1979.Kelly E. and P. Stone.Ens l l sh  Word Senses.1979.Computer Reco~nltlon o~fAmsterdam: North-Holland,McCllncock, David and R.S.R.
Fitter.
The CollinsPocket Guide to Wlld Flowers.
London: Collins,1975.Sager, Naomi.
Natural Language Information Pro-cessln~.
Reading, .~ass.
: Addison-Wesley, 1981.Schank, Roger C. and Kenneth M. Colby, eds.
Com-puter  Models of Thought and Language.
San Fran-c isco:  Freeman, 1973.113
