AUTOMATIC REPRESENTATION OF T~E SEMANTIC RELATIONSHIPS CORRESPONDING TO AFRENCH SURFACE EXPRESSIONGian Plato ZarrlCentre National de la Recherche SclentlflquaLaboratolra d'informatiqua pour 1as Sciences de l'So---e54, Boulevard Raspall75270 Paris Cedax 06FRANCEABSTRACTThe work presented here is a preliminary sn~yconcerning the automatic translation of Frenchnatural language statements into the RESEDA seman-tic metalanguage.
The text in natural language isfirst (pre)processed in order to obtain its syntac-tic structure.
The "semantic parsing" processbegins with marking the "triggers", defined aslexical units which call one or more of the predi-cative patterns allowed for in the metalanguage.The pat terns  obtained are then merged, and theircase slots filled with the elements found in thesurface structure according to the predictionsassociated with the slots.I INTRODUCTIONThe work that I i n tend  to  presen~ here is apreliminary study concerning the automatic trans-lation of French natural language statements intothe RESEDA semantic language.The RESEDA project itself is concerned withthe creation and practical exploltation of a systemfor managing a biographical database using Arti-flcial Intelligence (AI) techniques.
The term"biographical data" must be understood in itswidest possible sense : being in fact any event, inthe public or private Ills, physical or intellectual,etc., that it is possible to gather about thepersonages we are interested in.
In the presentstate of the system, this information concerns awell-defined period in time (approximately between1350 and 1450) and a particular subject area(French history), but we are now working on theadaptation of RESEDA's methodology to the process-ing of other biographical data, for example medicalor legal data.RESEDA differs from "classical" factual data-base management systems in two ways:- The information is recorded in the base using aparticular Data Definition Language (metalan-guage) which uses knowledge representationtechniques.- A user interrogating the base obtains not onlyinformation which has been directly introducedThis research is Jointly financsd by the "Agmncede l'Informatique - A.D.I."
(CNRS/ADI contract n ?507568) and the "Centre National de la RechercheScientifique - C.N.R.S."
(ATP n ?
955045).into it, but also "hidden" information found usinginference mechanisms particular to the system :in this respect, the most important character-Istic of the system lies in the Possibility ofusing inference procedures to question the data-base about causal relationships which may existbetween the different recorded facts, and whichare not explicitly declared at the time of dataentry (Zarrl, 1979;1981).
For example, thesystem may try to explain by inference top-levelchanges in the State administration in terms ofchanges in Political power.II T~E RESEDA METALANGUAGEThe biographical information which consti-tutes the systea's database is organized in theform of units called "planes".
There are severaldifferent types of plane, sea Zarri e_~ al..L. (1977);the "predicative planes", the most important, cor-respond to a "flash" which illustrates a partlcu-lam mament in the "Ills story" of one or more per-sonagas.
A predicative plane is made up of one offlve possible "predicates" (BE-AFFECTED-BY,BERAVE, BE-PRESENT, MOVE, PRODUCE) ; one or more"modulators" may be attached to each predicate.The modulator's function is to specify anddelimit the semantic role of the predicate.
Eachpredicate is accompanied by "case slots" which in-troduce their own arguments ~ dating and spacelocation is also given within a predicative plane,as is the bibliographic authority for the state-ment.
Predicative planes can be linked togetherin a number of ways ; one way is to use expllcitlinks of "coordination", "alternative", "causalic/'5"finality", "condition", etc.
The data represen-tation we have chosen in the RESEDA project isbasically, therefore, a kind of "case grammar",according to the particular meaning attached tothe term in an AI context (Bruce, \[975~ Charniak,1981; etc.
).For example, the data "Andr~ Marchant wasnamed provost of Paris by the King's Council on22nd September 1413 ;he lost his post on 23rdOctober 1414, to the benefit of Tanguy du ChAtel,who was granted this office", will be representedin three planes - that of the nomination of Andr~Merchant, his dismissal and the nomination ofTanguy du Oh&tel.The coding of information must be made on twodistinct levels : an "external coding, up until143now performed manually by the analyst, gives rise toa first type of representation, formalized accord-ing to the categories of the RESEDA metalanguage ;a second automatic stage results in the "internal"numeric code.
The external "manual" coding of thethree events just stated is given in figure I. Thecode in capital letters indicates a predicate andi) begin?soc+BE-AFFECTED-B?
SUBJ Andr~-MarchantOBJ provost : ParisSOURCE king's-counclldatel : 22-september-1413date2 :bibl= Demurger1,2732) end+BE-AFFECTED-BY SUBJ Andr~-MarchantOBJ provost : Parisdatel : 23-october-1414date2 :bibl: Demurgerl,2733) begln?BE-AFFECTED-BY SUBJ Tanguy-du-Ch&telOBJ provost : ParisMODAL letters-of-nominationdatel : 23-october-1414date2 :bibl: Demurgerl,273figure Iits associated "case slots".
Every predicativeplane is characterized by a pair.
of "time refer-ences" (datel-date2) which give the dtLration of theepisode in question.
In these three planes, thesecond date slot (date2) is empty because theirmodulators (begin, end) specify a change of stateassociated with a punctual event.
"Andr~-Marchant"and "Tanguy-du-Ch&tel" are historical personagesknown to the system ; "provost", "king's-council"and "letters-of-nomination" are terms of RESEDA'slexicon.
The classifications associated with theterms of the lexicon provide the major part of thesystem's socio-historical knowledge of the period.
"Paris" is the "location of the object".
If thehistorical sources analyzed gave us the exactcauses of these events, we would introduce into thedatabase the corresponding planes and associatethem with these three planes by an explicit linkof type "CAUSE".This manual procedure for converting informa-tion in natural language into one or more planeshas at least two major disadvantages which theproposed study intends to deal with :- The manual representation of biographical infor-mation in the terms of the metalanguage can onlybe performed by a specialist.
This is done, atthe moment, by the researchers themselves whohave constructed the prototype system.
Such amethod is obviously out of the question if thesystem is to be used routinely by an uninitiatedpublic, especially as RESEDA was conceived as asystem supplied continuously with biographicalinformation extracted from many different sources.- In spite of the fact that the syntax of RESEDA'smetalanguage imposes strict constraints on theforming of predicative schemata accepted by thesystem and that these are then thoroughlychecked, we cannot completely exclude the poss-ibillty of two coders translating the same in-formation differently.III DESCRIPTION OF THE METHOD OF AUTOMATIC CODINGTo describe our methodology, I will use theexample given in the preceeding section.
Theinitial text in natural language is first (pre)processed to obtain its constituent structure.For this purpose, we have used in a first approachthe French surface grammar implemented in DEREDEC,a software package developed at the University ofQuebec at Montreal by Pierre Plante (1980a;1980b).This system, comparable to an ATN parser, permitsa breakdown of the surfaoe text into its syntacticconstituents, and establishes, between these con-stituents, syntagmatic relationships of the type"topic-comment", "determination" and "~oordina~ion".This preliminary analysis provides a context forsubsequent processing, without necessarily removin~all the ambiguities : in the same vein, see Bog~raevand Sparck Jones (1982).The specific tools that we intend to developfor ~his project are of two types : a generalprocedure which can be likened to a sort of sem-antic parsing, and a system of heuristic rules.A.
~emantic Parsln~The first stage of the general procedureconsists of marking the "triggers", defined aslexical units which call for one or more of thepredicative patterns allowed for in RESEDA's meta-language.
Thus we do not take into considerationevery one of the lexical items met in the surfacetext, retaining only those directly pertaining tothe "translation" to be done.However, we do not limit ourselves to asimple keyword approach, since a number of oper-ations utilizing data provided by the morpho-syntactic analysis executed by DEREDEC are necess-ary before the predicative patterns which will beactually used afterwards can be selected.One of the results of the DEREDEC analysis ~sa kind of lemmatization enabling the reduction ofsurface forms in the text to a canonical form ;for example, infinitive in the case of verbs.
Thecanonical forms found in the text under examinationare compared with a list of potential triggersstored permanently in the system.
In the case ofthe sentence we are analyzing we can constructfrom this list the following sub-list : verbalforms - "name", "loss", "qrant" ; ter~s pertainangdirectly to the metalanguage or terms which have adirect correspondence with elements of the meta-language : "office", synonymous with "post" inRESEDA ("post" is a "generic" term, a "head" of a"sub-tree" in RESEDA's lexicon), and its specifi-cation "provost".
The results of the pre-analysisexecuted by DEREDEC enable the elimination ofpotential patterns associated with the triggers"name" and "grant" which would correspond to sur-face constructions of type "active", as in thehypothetical example "The Duke of Orl~ans namedAndr~ Marchant provost of Paris ...".
The patterns14&which will be actually utilized afterwards aretherefore those shown in figure 2.
Note that inthe case of a trigger "name (active form)" theparsonage who figures as surface object would havefound as the "SUBJECT" of "BE-AFFECTED-BY",whlIstthe surface subject would have been associatedwith the slot "sOURCE" of "BE-AFFECTED-BY".the papal court (social body)".
Therefore, forexample, the pattern in figure 3 is also associ-ated with the trigger "name (passive form)" Thepatterns in this second set will be elimina=ed atthe end of the construction procedure since, as xtis not possible to obtain a surface realization ofthe concept "<soclal-body>" in the positionname (passive fo~)  ~ begin?(soc?
)BE-AFFECTED-BY~rovost ~ (sot+)BE-AFFECTED-BYloss ~ end+BE-AFFECTED-BY~ost ~ (soc+)BE-AFFECTED-BYSUBJ <personage>-surface subject of the triggerOBJ <post>-surface complement(SOURCE <personage>l<social-body>-eurfacecc~plement of the agent of ~he trigger)datel : obligatorydate2 : prohibitedbibl.
: obligatorySUBJ <personage>OBJ <post>-trlgger(SOURCE <personage>l<social-body>)datel : obligatorydate2 : optionalblbl.
: obligatorySUBJ <personage>-surface suDJect of the triggerdafial : obligatorydate2 : prohibitedblbl.
: obligatory~JBJ <personage>OBJ <post>(SOURCE <personage>I<soclal-body>)datel : obligatorydate2 : optionalbibl.
: obligatorygrant (passive form) --~ begin?(soc?
)BE-AFFECTED-BY SUBJ <personage>-surface subject of the triggerOBJ <poet.>-surface complement(SOURCE <personage>l<social-body>- complement of~he surface agent)MODAL letters-of-nomlnationofficedatel : obligatorydate2 : prohibitedbibl.
: obligatory(SOC+)BE-AFFECTED-BY SUBJ <personage>OBJ <poet>(SOURCE <personage>I<social-body>date!
: obligatorydate2 : optionalblbl.
: obligatoryfigure 2In reality, the predicative structures select-ed are not limited to those shown in figure I.They are in fact repeated with predicative patternsof the type "BE-AFFECTED-BY" which have as "SUBJECT""<social-body>",and as "OBJECT" "<personage>"accompanied by the specification ("$PECIF") of a"<post>".
These constructions each correspond tothe description : "A personage receives a post ina certain organization (the organization in ques-tion, SUBJECT, is "augmented", BE-AFFECTED-BY, bythe personage, OBJECT, in relation, SPECIF, to agiven post)".
A corresponding surface expressionwould be, for example, the following : "Andr~Marchant (personage) is named secretary (post) of"SUBJECT", they cannot provide complete predicativestructures.The last stage of the general procedureconsists of examining the triggers belonging tothe same morpho-syntactic environments, as definedby the results of the DEREDEC analysis.
If thereare several triggers pertaining to the same en-vlronment, and if the predicative patterns trigger-ed are the same - which means that the predicatesand case slots must be the same and that themodulators, dates and space location informationmust be compatible - then it can be said that thetriggers refer to the same situation.
As aname (passive form) ~ begin?
(soc+)BE-AFFECTED-BY SUBJ <social-body>OBJ <personage>-surface subject of the triggerSPECZF <post>-surface complement(SOURCE <personage>l<social-body>)datel : obligatorydate2 : prohibitedblblo : obligatoryfigure 3result, the predicative patterns are merged as toobtain the most complete description possible ;the predictions about filling the slots linkedwith the cases of the resulting patterns togethergovern to search for fillers in the surface ex-pression.Thus, the first two triggers in figure 2,recognized as relevant to the same environment,are combined in the formula in figure 4, whichgives the general framework of plane i in figure I.elements "Andr~ Marchant", "provost", "King'sCouncil" and "22nd September 1413" - standardizedaccording to RESEDA's conventions, see figure I -will take up the slots "SUBJECT", "OBJECT", "SOURCE"and "datel" directly.
The filling-in operations areusually much more complicated, and require the useof complex inference rules.
I shall say just afew words here about the heuristic rules designedto solve cases of anaphora (as in our example,"he", "this office", "who").begln+(soc*)BE-AFFECTED-BY SUBJ <personage>-surface subject of "was named"OBJ <post>-"provost"(SOURCE <personage>l<social-body>-surface complement of theagent of "was named")datel : obligatorydate2 : prohibitedbibl.
: obligatoryfigure 4The example we are considering illustrates aparticularly simple case, in which it is not necess-ary to establish links between the planes to becreated.
If we had to process the sentence"Philibert de St L~ger is nominated seneschal ofLyon on the 30th of July 1412, in lieu of the lateA.
de Viry", three planes should be generated :one for the nomination of Philibert de St L~ger,one for the death of A. de Viry, and another estab-lishing a weak causality llnk ("CONFER", in ourmetalanguage) between the first two planes.Surface items such as conjunctions, prepositionsand sentential adverbs can be used to infer linksbetween planes : causality, finality, coordination,etc.
More precisely, in the last example, "inlieu of" is a potential trigger according to thefollowing rule : if the main noun group of thesurface prepositional phrase contains a trigger,this phrase constitutes a plane environment and"CONFER" introduces the plane created.B.
Heuristic RulesThe process I have outlined so far requires acorpus of heuristic rules - organized in the formof "grammars" associated with the predicativepatterns of RESEDA's metalanguage - which willenable the slots in these patterns to be filledusing the surface information in accordance withthe predictions which characterize the slots.
Inthe case of the pattern in figure 4, this filling-in poses no real problems, since the surface146In the approach that we propose, marks ofanaphora are identified during the general analysisprocedure ; the actual solving brings into play anumber of criteria from simple pairing off andmorphological agreement to more subtle criteria,like contextual proximity, persistence of theme,etc.
Thus, morphological agreement and contextualproximity are used to replace "who" by "Tanguy duChAtel" in our example ; persistence of the themeenables us to fill in the missing date for Tanguydu Chatel's posting with the date "23rd October1414" appearing in the surface expression.We would like to integrate this approach,which has been purely empirical up to now, intothe framework of a more general theory.
Twodirections of enquiry seem particularly interest-ing in order to develop our own philosophy of thesubject.The PAL system of Candace Sidner (1979;1981),is a top-down anaphora resolution method whichMakes use of the notion of focus (likened to thetheme of the discourse).
By searching in thetext for "focuses" which refer to a system ofrepresentation organized as a series of "frames",it is able to solve references.
If the referenceis not found by using the frames themselves, itis inferred from other frames contained in thedatabase.
The interest in this study lies in thefact that RESEDA already has, as permanent data,a certain amount of general knowledge organizedin a form very similar to that of frames.
Thus,in m 7 example, the nomination and dismissal ofAndr6 Merchant refers ~o the context of the "civilwar at the beginning of the 15th century" whichis one of those frames (Zarri et el., 1977).
Theapproach used by Klappholz and Lockman (Lockman,1978) depends on the hypothesis that there is astrong llnk between co-reference and the cohesivelinks of a discourse.
These links, when markedprogressively in the text, become indloes of thestructure of the discourse, organized as a treestructure and created dynamically.
These cohesivelinks (effect, cause, syllogism, exemplification,etc.)
are very similar to the logical connectionsbetween planes in RESEDA (causality, finality,condition, etc.
).IV CONCLUSIONThe study that I have described here is In-tended to automatically achieve a representationof fundamental underlying semantic relationshipscorresponding to a French surface expression.
Ihave already pointed out the benefits that wehope to obtain fram this work as far as RESEDA isconcerned.
I should like ~o add that, on a moregeneral level, solving the problem of automati-cally recording natural language data wouldobsiously allow us to face, with a certain amountof confidence, the analogous problems of natuxallanguage interrogation of RESEDA'S database j theadvantages of this, f r~  the point of view ofwidespread use of the system, are obvious.
Butthe results of this study can, in principle, beused not only in the framework of RESEDA, but in anumber of different applications such as, forexample, automatic abet.faction, paraphrase, machinetranslation and the direct coding of naturallanguage documents in a factual database.V RZ~zaENCESBOGURAEV, B.K., SPARK JONES, Karen (1982) "ANatural Language Analyser for Database Access~Information Technology : Research an__~d Develo p-men~, I, 23-29.BRUCE, B.
(1975) "Case Systems for Natural Language'5Artificial Intelligence, VI, 327-360.CHARNIAK, E. (1981) "The Case-Slot Identity Theory~Cognitive Science, V, 285-292.LOCKMAN, A.B.
(1978) Contextual Reference Resol-ution, Technical Report DCS-TR-70.
NewBrunswick: Rutgers University Department ofComputer Science.PLANTE, P. (1980) DEREDEC - Logiclel pour le trai-temen~ !in~uisti~ue e_~t l'analyse de contenudes ~extes, manuel de l'usager.
Montreal:Universit~ du Qu4bec ~ Montreal.PLANTE, P. (1980) Un._ee ~r~mnaire DEREDEC des struc-tures de surface du Franqais, appliquesl'analyse de contenu des textes.
Montr~al:Unlversit6 du Quebec a Montr4al.SIDNER, Candace L. (1979) ~ Computational Model ofCo-reference Comprehension i__nn English, Ph.D.Thesis.
Cambridge: MIT Artificial Intelli-gence Laboratory.SIDNER, Candacs L. (1981) "Focusing for InCerpre-teflon of Pronouns", American Journal ofCom~utatlonal Linqulstics, VII, 217-231.ZARRI, G.P.
(1979) "What Can Artificial Intelll-gence Offer to Ccmputatlonal Linguistics ?
"The Experience of the RESEDA Project", inAdvances in Computer-aided Literary andL in~ist ic  Research, Ager, D.E., et el., eds.Birmlngham: University of Aston.ZARRI, G.P.
(1981) "Building the Inference Compo-nent of an Historical Information RetrievalSystem", in Proceedings of the SeventhInternational Joint Conference on ArtificialIntelligence - IJCAI/81 (Vancouver 1981).Menlo Park: The American Association forArtificial Intelligence.ZARRI, G.P., OR~ATO, Monlque, KING, Margaret,ZWI~EL,  Anne, ZARRI-BALDI, Lucia (1977)RESEDA/0: Mapport Final.
Paris:Equips Recherche Humanlsme Fran~ais.147
