KNOWLEDGE-BASED APPROACHES: SESSION INTRODUCTIONIvan A. SagDepartment of LinguisticsStanford UniversityStanford, CA 94305As research  in  natura l  l anguage process ingspawns commerc ia l  p roducts ,  as  i t  now beg ins  Co,our  research  community acqu i res  new eth ica l  andpract i ca l  respons ib i l i t i es .
All software packageshave limitations, and research progress consistsin dev is ing  techn iques  that  lead  to reduc ing  thesel im i ta t ions .
There i s  every  reason  to  be l ievethat  currently available natural languageinterfaces may be of significant value to thosewho purchase them, despite their limitations, andthat their successors will be of even greatervalue.
Our responsibility to accurately conveythe limitations of existing systems, as well astheir capabilities, is two-fold: an ethicalresponsibility to  the pub l i c  not to misleadpotential consumers, and a pract i ca lresponsibility to each other not to destroy thecredibility of fu ture  research  resu l t s  that  leadCo enhanced language process ing  capabilities.Row are we living up to this responsibility?One commercially available product now advertisesby dep ic t ing  users  that  a re  sat i s f ied  because  theycan "simply type \[their\] question in everydayconversational dialogue, PHRASED ANY WAY \[THEY\]LIKE \[emphasis added\]".
Another boasts an"understanding of IIN'REST~ICTED \[emphasis added\]English queries comparable to a human's".
Theformer acknowledges chat "every product has alimit to what it can do" (The only Englishsentence offered as beyond the system'scapability, however, is: "To be or not to be,?
..").
But the latter proudly asserts:"DISADVANTAGES: none".
The former is at bestmisleading.
But the latter makes a mockery ofboth the intellectual content of our disciplineand the basic principles of honesty inadvertising.How do we assess the limitations of naturallanguage systems?
When we are presented with auser-computer interaction, whether in a llvedemonstration or in a scholarly paper such aschose being presented at this conference, there isan implicit trust.
We assume, for example, chateach sentence being processed is really beingprocessed, and further that each sentence ismerely one instance of a large class of similarsentences, all of which can be processed in llkefashion.
Likewise, when we see cooperative,seemingly intelligent responses to queries, weassume that there is some generality to theintelligence, that tt will exhibit itself in  avariety of different circumstances, and willtransport itself to different domains.Thus we as a community would be shocked tohear reports of public demonstrations of INSTALLEDnatural language systems where unexpecteddeviations from planned presentations expose whatappear to be "canned" responses rather thanintelligent language processing, if suchincidents were to occur, there would be greatcause for alarm.
The implicit trust I referred toearlier would have been violated, and the veryintegrity of our discipline called into question.To retain credibility as a responsible researchcommunity, we must devise better methods forevaluating research, ways of exposing huckstersand charlatans in our midst, and some means ofenforcing standards that guard against overzealousand unprincipled marketing of commercial products.Sensible research of course takes manyshapes.
Among the key issues of our field thatmake good sense to address are the following:1. new techniques for representation orprocessing2.
limitations of existing techniques3.
comparisons among existing techniques4.
new problems for theories of represen-tation or processing5.
properties of system design thac ensuredesirable functioning (e.g., discussions ofmodularity and portability)6. assessing the limitations of existingsystemsThe papers in this session couch on severalsuch issues.
Boguraev and Sparck Jones discussnumber 5; both Finln and Palmer and Pazzani andEngelman touch on number 3; Montgomery isconcerned with number 4; Lehnert and Shwartzaddress number 6.
In some cases the contributionhelng made is clear.
In other cases, I for onefind it difficult to assess whether the systemsbeing described do what they do in a principledway that will generalize to other applications, orin an ad hoc fashion chat is devoid ofintellectual interest.
In the absence of agreed-upon standards for evaluating descriptions of suchsystems, I can only urge both authors and audienceto address the issues I have raised, doubtless notfor the first time, in the oral presentations andsubsequent discussion.54
