MACHINE TRANSLATION: SESSION INTRODUCTIONGary R. Mart insIn te l l igent  So f tware ,  Inc .15450 Cohasset  S t reetVan Nuys, CA 91406Having agreed ,  w i th  gra t i tude  and de l ight ,  toserve  as cha i rman of  the  mach ine- t rans la t ionsess ion  of  th i s  Conference ,  i t  became my duty  tocomment fo r  the  record  on the set  of  four  papersto  be presented  to  us .
Thus have events  la id  onme an oppor tun i ty  to  rev iew,  in  a sense ,  the  s ta teo f  a f ie ld  which was my pro fess iona l  home Inear l ie r  and head ier  days .
The task  has  g iven  meboth  en joyment  and knowledge ,  but  few surpr i ses .More than two decades ago, scholars of thestature of the late Y. Bar-Hillel were stating indetail their perceptions of the futility ofautomated language translation by the methods thenunder development.
Some years (and many "progressreports') later, others of us name to see thatgeneral translation, without the benefit of arobust and dominant semantics and praEmatlca, wasnot  thinkable.
The very  slow and scat tereddeve lopment  of  these  la t te r ,  in  both  pr inc ip le  andsubstance, is the most fundamental impediment tothe computer manipulation of language; in thosetiny domains where the work has been done, theresults are Impresslve--across a variety ofmethods.Why isn't more of this work being done, withmore focus?
Ferhaps both the potential market andthe (mostly military) research sponsors are awedby the magnitude of the challenge, and skepticalof the  payoffs.
One might envision a world inwhich, once the skepticism has been answered, suchanswers would stimulate rather than intimidateresearch.Meanwhile, we should be busy with other goalsin mind, of which aids-to-translatlon is anobv ious  example .
Two of  the  papers  be fore  usdescr ibe  approaches  to improv ing  the  humant rans la t ion  process .
A th i rd  va l iant ly  wades in tothe struggle with computational semantics.
Thefourth paper  offers unsurprislng results form anodd experiment.
I should note that all I hadavailable to me were the abstracts; my cemmentsbelow reflect that  limitation.The Slocum paper  i s  more a "s ta tement  ofwork" fo r  a paper ,  ra ther  than  a substant ivedra f t .
We expect  a repor t  on the  s ta te  o f  theS iemens-Texas  t rans la t ion  pro jec t ,  and a de fenseof  i t s  approach  in  eng ineer ing  te rms.
The goodnews in  th i s  paper  i s  the  commerc ia l  sponsorsh ipof the  work;  the  success  of such a venture  mtghts t imu la te  s t ronger  investment  in  natura l - languagepro jec ts  and s tud ies .The Melby paper  o f fe rs  an arch i tec tura lsketch  of  an open-ended t rans la tor ' s  sys tem whichcou ld  inc lude  an MT sys tem as  one component.
Th ismodest  paper  deserves  read ing  fo r  the author ' sperspect ive  on the  pro fess iona l  t rans la tor .The paper by Nishlda and Doshlta describesthe use of Montague-style functional notatlon tocreate a sentence-level semantic Interlingua.
Theobvious benefits in syntactic simplification areillustrated.
An extended example, in Japanese,may be crucial for appreciating the scope anddelicacy of the authors" work to date.The paper  by Somers d i scusses  a pro jec t  to domachine translation on a home computer, whichturns out to be difficult.148
