THE IMPACT OF NATURAL LANGUAGE ACCESS ON DATABASE DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATIONCHAIRMAN:Dr. S. Jerrold KaplanTeknowledge IncPalo Alto, CAPARTIAL LIST OF PARTICIPANTS:Mr. Jeffrey HillArtificial Intelligence Corp.Waltham, MAMr.
Francisco CorellaSymantecSunnyvale, CADr.
Jim DavidsonStanford UniversityStanford, CADr.
Steven ShwartzCognitive Systems, Inc.New Haven, CTProf.
Robert WilenskyUniversity of California, BerkeleyBerkeley, CAThe central question to be addressed by thispanel is how the provision of natural languageaccess influences the design and implementationof database systems.
Within this, there are(at least) the following four issues to discuss:i.
The augmentation of data models to supportthe specific requirements of natural languageaccess.This is perhaps the broadest category.
AmongEhe particular demands of natural language accessare: treatment of lexicon and lexical ambigu-ities; use of parenthetical expressions which mayrequire simultaneous update and query; supportfor the generation of natural language responses;storage of discourse information; representationof text structure models; accurate processing ofnatural language updates; and other interactionsthat, though not unique to natural languageaccess, have special problems in that context,such as natural language queries to dynamicdatabases requiring natural language statementsof alerting conditions, or answering "meta-questions" - questions about structure.
Currentwork in all these areas suggests the need toaugment data models in particular ways.2.
Ideas for data models that arise from thestudy of natural language Semantics.This category is related to the first, butthe emphasis here is that researchers in naturallanguage are developing ideas about modelling thatcan be very helpful in database modelling.
Oneexample of this is the uniform use of first-orderlogic as the "logical form" of natural languagesentences as the representation of knowledge anddata, and as the medium for deductive retrieval.Another example is the development of concepts ofintensionality that support the notion of an"historical" database system.3.
The organization of information in databasesystems to enhance the portability of naturallanguage interfaces.Many researchers are investigating how toreduce the difficulty of moving a naturallanguage interface from one database system toanother.
The problems in doing this include whatinformation is needed, how the information shouldbe divided into modules, and what algorithms areneeded to acquire the necessary information fora new database.
There are obvious ramificationson database structure for achieving variouslevels of natural language interface portability.4.
The requirements imposed on conventionaldatabase systems that function as the back end ofnatural language processing systems.Looking at natural language research itself,most researchers develop their own informationstorage and retrieval mechanisms specificallytailored to the kinds of data structures thatarise in natural language processing.
However,there is some recent work in investigating howconventional database systems could be used inthis role.
This work is bound to have importanteffects in the future design of databases thatdeal in less regular structures than we areused to.ACKNOWLEDGMENT:The concept for this panel and the list ofissues was developed originally by Dr. JonathanKing of Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto,California.198
