KNOWLEDGE BASED QUESTION ANSWERINGMichael J. Pazzani and Carl EngelmanThe MITRE CorporationBedford, MA 01730ABSTRACTThe natura l  language database query systemincorporated  in the KNOBS in teract ive  p lanningsystem comprises a d ic t ionary  dr iven parser ,APE-II ,  and sc r ip t  in te rpreter  which y ie ld  aconceptual  dependency conceptua l i za t ion  as arepresentat ion  of the manning of user  input .
Aconceptua l i za t ion  pat tern  matching product ionsystem then determines and executes  a procedure forext rac t ing  the des i red  in format ion from thedatabase .
In cont ras t  to syntax dr iven Q-Asystems,  e .$ .
,  those based on ATH parsers ,  AFE-IIia dr iven bottom-up by expectat ions  assoc ia ted  withword ~ean ings .
The procesa in  K of a query i s  basedon the contents  of severa l  knowledge sourcesinc lud ing the d ic t ionary  ent r ies  (par t ia lconceptua l i za t ions  and the i r  expectat ions ) ,  framesrepresent ing  conceptual  dependency pr imi t ives ,sc r ip ts  which conta in  s te reotyp ica l  knowledge aboutp lanning tasks  used to in fe r  s ta tes  enabl ing orresu l t ing  from act ions ,  and two product ion systemru le  bases for the in ference  of imp l i c i t  casef i l l e rs ,  and for  determin ing the respons ivedatabase search.
The goals  of th i s  approach, a l lof which are cur rent ly  at leas t  par t ia l l y  achieved,inc lude u t i l i z ing  s imi la r  representat ions  forquest ions  with s imi la r  meanings but widely vary ingsur face  s t ruc tures ,  developing a powerful mechanismfor the d isambiguat iou of words with mul t ip lemeanings and the determinat ion  of pronounre ferents ,  answering quest ions  which requ i rein ferences  to be understood,  and in terpret inge l l ipses  and unBra--nat ical  u t te rances .THE SETTINGThe KNOBS \[Engelman, 1980\] demonstrat ionsystem is an exper imenta l  expert  system provid ingconsu l tant  services to an Air Force tactical airmission planner.
The KNOBS database consists ofsevera l  nets  of f rames,  implemented with in  anextens ion  of FRL \ [Roberts,  1977\], represent ing  bothi nd iv idua l  and gener ic  c lasses  of ta rgets ,resources ,  and planned miss ions .
The KNOBS systemsupports a planner by checking the consistency ofplan components, enumerating or ranking poss ib lechoices for plan components, or automaticallygenerating a complete  plan.
Because theseactivities are accomplished by means of rules andconstraints expressible in English, KNOBS willhopefully be a relatively easy system to learn.For the same reasons ,  it is  a l so  being cons ideredas an a id to t ra in  mission p lanners .
The natura llanguage subsystem of KNOBS p lays  severa l  ro lesinc lud ing  those of database query,  database update,co~uand language,  plan de f in i t ion ,  and the add i t ionor modification of production system ru lesrepresent ing  domain knowledge.
The moat developedof these is  database query,  upon which th i s  paperw i l l  focus .The balance of th i s  paper will f i r s t  out l inethe use of conceptual  dependency and mention somepr io r  re la ted  work and then descr ibe  the severa lknowledge sources and the par ts  they p lay in thepars ing  of the input  query .
F ina l ly ,  i t  w i l ldescr ibe  the method of der iv ing  the appropr ia tedatabase search and output  response as wel l  as asc r ip t -based  approach to  i n te rpret t ing  COmmands.USE OF CONCEPTUAL DEPENDENCYAPE-If ut i l i zes  Conceptual  Dependency theory\[Schank, 1972\] to  represent  the meaning ofquestions.
Once the meaning of a question has beenfound, the quest ion  is  answered by a ru le  basedsystem whose teats  are CD pat terns  and whoseact ions  execute database quer ies .We fee l  i t  i s  important to represent  themeaning in th i s  manner for  severa l  reasons .
F i r s t ,the canonica l  meaning representat ion  enablesquest ions  which have d i f fe rent  sur face  express ions ,but the same meanins,  to be answered by the samemechanikm.
This is  not only of theoret i ca ls i sn i f i cance ,  but is  a lso  a prac t i ca l  mat ter  as i trequ i res  less  e f fo r t  to  produce a robust  system.Because people do not always say prec i se lywhat they mean, in fe rences  may be requ i red  toexp l i ca te  miss ing  in format ion .
This in ferenceprocess  can a lso  u t i l i ze  the canonica l  meaningrepresentat ion .
F ina l ly ,  f ind ing  the re fe rent  Qf anominal which is  modified by a relative clause is,in some cases, similar to question answeringalthough the syntactic constructions used differ.As a result of this similarity, the questionanswering productions can also be used fordetermining the referents of a relative clause.The conversation with KNOBS (whose database isfictional) in Fig.
1 illustrates these points.The first question is represented in the samemanner as "Does Ramstein have F-4G's?"
and wouldbe answered by the same rule.
The second question,73USER: Are there F-4G's at Ramatein?KNOBS: RAMSTEIN has F-4Ga.USER: Can i t s  fighters reach the target?KNOBS: F-15e can reach SE50301 from RA~SIEIN.F-4Ge and F-dCa can not reach BEb0301 from RA~STEIN.USER: Which SCL which are carried by an F-dC contain ECM?KNOBS: Sl, S7 and BB.F~guve i.
A Question Answering Interchange withi, KN08S.after resolving the pronominal reference, requiresan inference to find the location from which theF-4G's will be leaving.
This inference states thatif the source of the object of a physical transferis missing, then the source could be the initiallocation of the object.
The third question can bethought of as two questions: "Which SCL (StandardConfiguration Load - a predefined weapons package)are carried by an F-dC?"
and "Which of thosecontain ECM (Electronic Counter Measures - radarjamming equipment)?".
The first part requires ascr ip t  based  in fe rence :  In o rder  fo r  an SCL to becar r ied  by an a i rc ra f t ,  the  a i rc ra f t  must  becapab le  of  hav ing  the  SCL as a par t .
A f te r  thef i r s t  par t  i s  answered  as a quest ion ,  the  secondpart is answered as a second question to discoverwhich contain ECM.The sys tem of  representat ion  used fo r  nomina ls(or  p ic ture  producers )  d i f fe rs  from that  normal lyp resent  in a CD sys tem.
Typ ica l ly ,  an ob jec t  suchas an F-4C would be represented  as a p ic tureproducer with a TYPE case filled by VEHICLE, aSUBTYPE case filled by aircraft, and, perhaps, aMODEL case filled by F-4C.
In KNOBS, the meaningrepresentation produced by the parser is F-dC, thename of a frame.
The set membership of this frameis indicated by links to other frames.
F-dC is akind of FIGHTER which is a kind of AIRPLANE whichis an A IRCR~T which is a VEHICLE which is aPICTURE PRODUCER.
We feel that representingnominals in this manner allows a finer degree ofdiscrimination than explicitly labeled cases todenote a conceptual hierarchy.Many o f  the  a t t r ibutes  of  ob jec ts  in thedatabase  (which are  s to red  as va lue  facets  of  s lo tsin FRL) a re  represented  as k inds  of  RELATIONS inthe  KNOBS sys tem.
For example ,  the  representat ionof "Hahn's Latitude" is (LATITUDE ARGUMENT (HAHN)).Note, however, chat the representation of "Hahn'saircraft" is (AIRCRAFT LOC (AT PLACE (HAHN))).PREVIOUS WORKWe would like to distinguish the KNOBS naturallanguage facility from such familiar naturallanguage query systems as LADDER \[Hendrix, 1978\]and LUNAR \[Woods, 1972\] in both function andmethod.
The functional model of the above systemsis that of someone with a problem to solve and adatabase containing information useful in itssolution which he can access via a natural languageinterface.
KNOBS, by contrast, integrates thenatural language capability with multi-facetedproblem solving support including critiquing andBenerating tactical plans.
Our approach differs inmethod from these  prev ious  sys tems in  i t sbot tom-up ,  d ic t ionary  dr iven  pars ing  which resu l t sin  a canon ica l  representat ion  of  the  mean ing  of  thequery ,  i t s  ab i l i ty  to per fo rm context  dependentin fe rences  w i th  th i s  representat ion  dur ing  quest ionanswer ing ,  and the  use  o f  a dec la ra t iverepresentat ion  o f  the  domain to ass i s t  pars in  S,quest ion  answer ing ,  p lan  updat ing ,  and in fe renc ing .A sys tem s imi la r  to APE- I f  in  both  i t sd icc ionarydr iven  approach  to pars ins  and iced i rec t  a t tack  on word sense  d i sambiguat ion  i s  theWord Expert Parser (WEP) \[Small, 1980\].
Thisparser associates a discrimination net with eachword to guide the meanin 8 selection process.
Eachword in a sentence is a pointer to a coroutinecalled a word expert which cooperates withneighboring words to build a meanin S representationof the sentences in a bottom-up, i.e., data driven,fashion.
At each node in the discrimination net amultiple-choice test i s  executed which can querythe lexical properties or expectations,(selectional restrictions \[Katz, 1963\]) ofneighboring words, or proposed FOCUS, ACTIVITY, andDISCOURSE modules.
The sense selection process ofWEP requ i res  that  each  word know a l l  o f  thecontexts in which its senses can occur.
Forexample, to find the meaning of "pit", the pitexpert can ask if a MINING-ACTIVITY, EATING-ACTION,CAR-RACINC, or MUSIC-CONCERT-ACTION is active.APE- I I  evo lved  from APE (A Pars ingExper iment ) ,  a parser  used  by the  DSAM(D is t r ibutab le  Scr ip t  App ly ing  Mechanism) and ACE(Academic Counse l ing  Exper t )  p ro jec ts  a t  theUniversity of Connecticut \[Cullingford, 1982\].
APEis based on the CA parser \[Birnbaum, 1981\] with theaddition of a word sense disambiguation algorithm.In CA, word definitions are represented asrequests, a type of test-action pair.
The testpart of a request can check lexical and semanticfeatures of neighboring words; the actions createor connect CD structures, and activate ordeactivate other requests.The method available to select the appropriatemeaning of a word in CA is to use the test part ofseparate requests to examine the meanings of otherwords and co build a meaning representation asfunction of this local context.
For example, ifthe objeet of "serve" is a food, the meaning is"bring to"; if the object is a ball, the meaning is"hit toward".
This method works well for selectinga sense of a word which has expectations.
However,some words have no expectations and the intendedsense is the one that is expected.
For example,the proper sense of "ball" in "John kicked theball."
and "John attended the ball."
is the sensewhich the central action expects.The word definitions of APE are alsorepresented as requests.
A special concept called aVEL is used to represent the set of possiblemeanings of a word.
When searching for a conceptwhich has certain semantic features, an expectationcan select one or more senses from a VEL and74d iscard  those that  are not appropr ia te .
Inadd i t ion ,  APE can use expectat ions  from acontextua l  knowledge source such as a sc r ip tapp l ie r  to se lec t  a word sense .
Each sc r ip t  i saugmented w i th  parser  executab le  expectat ionsca l led  named requests .
For example, aCa  cer ta inpo in t  in unders tand ing  a res taurant  s to ry ,  leav ing?
t ip  fo r  the wa i te r  i s  expected.
The parser  isthen g iven a named request  which could helpdisambiguate the words "leave" and "tip", shouldthey appear .APE-IIA word de f in i t ion  in APE-I I  cons is ts  of  theset  of  a l l  of i t s  senses .
Each sense conta ins  ?concept ,  i .e .
,  ?
par t ia l  CD s t ructure  whichexpresses  the meaning of th i s  sense ,  and a set  ofconceptua l  and lex ica l  expectat ious .A conceptua l  expectat ion  ins t ructs  the parserto look for  a concept in s cer ta in  re la t ivepos i t ion  which meets a se lec t iona l  res t r i c t ion .The expectat ion  a l so  conta ins  a se lec t iona lp re ference ,  a more spec i f i c ,  p re fer red  category  fo rthe expected concept (c f .
\[Wilkg, 1972\]) .
I f  sucha concept is found, the expectat ion  conta insin fo rmat ion  on how i t  can be combined wi th  theconcept which in i t ia ted  the expectat ion .
A lex ica lexpectat ion  ins t ructs  the parser  to look fo r  acer ta in  word and add a new, favored sense to i t .This p rocess  is  use fu l  for  p red ic t ing  the funct ionof a prepositiou \[Reisbeck, 1976\ ] .
The definitionof a pronoun utilizes a context and focus mechanismco f ind the set  of poss ib le  re ferents  which agreewith i t  in number and gender .
THE PRONOUN IS THENTREATED LIKE A WORD WITH MULTIPLE SENSES.
Thedefinitions of the words "fly", "eat" and "A/C" areshown in F ig.
2.The definition of "A/C" states that it meansAIRCRAFT or AIR-CONDITIONER.
APE-If usesse lec t iona l  restrictions to choose the proper senseof "A/C" in the question "What A/C can fly fromHahn?".
On the other hand, in the sentence "Send 4A/C to BE70701.
", APE-II utilizes the facts thatthe OCA script is active, and that sending aircraftto a target is a scene of that script, Co determinethat "A/C" means AIRCRAFT.
In the question "Whatis  an A/C?
", APE-II  uses  a weaker argument toreso lve  the potent ia l  ambigu i ty .
I t  u t i l i zes  thefact  that  AIRCRAFT is  an ob ject  that  can perform aro le  in the OCA scr ip t ,  whi le an AIR-CONDITIONERcannot.The definition of "fly" states that it meansFLY which is a kind of physical transfer.
Theexpectations associated with fly state theactor of the sentence (i.e., a concept whichprecedes the action in a d~clarative sentence,follows "by" in a passive sentence, or appears invar ious  p laces in quest ions ,  e tc . )
is  expected tobe an AIRCRAFT in which case it is the OBJECT ofFLY or is expected to be a BIRD in which case it isboth the ACTOR and the OBJECT of the physicaltransfer.
This is the expectation which can selectthe intended sense of "A/C".
If the word "~o"75appears ,  i t  might serve  the funct ion  of ind icat ingthe filler of the TO case of FLY.
The word "from"is given a similar definition, which would fill theFROM case with the object of the preposition which: shou ld  be a PICTURE-PRODUCER but is pre fer red  to bea LOCATION.The definition of "eat"  conta ins  anexpectat ion  with s se lec t iona l  p re ference  whichi nd icates  that  the ob jec t  i s  p re fer red  to be food.This pre ference  serves  another  purpose a l so .
Theob jec t  w i l l  be converted to a food i f  poss ib le .For example, if the object were "chicken" then thisconvers ion  would asser t  that  i t  i s  a dead andcooked ch icken.We v i l i  f i r s t  d i scuss  the pars ing  process  asi f  sentences  could be parsed in i so la t ion  and thenexp la in  how i t  i s  augmented to account  fo r  context .The s impl i f ied  pars ing  process  cons is ts  of  addingthe senses  of  each word to an ac t ive  memory,cons ider ing  the expectat ions ,  and removin E concepts( senses)  which are not connected to o ther  concepts .Word sense d i sambiguat ion  and the reso lu t ionof  pronominal  re ferences  are achieved by severa lmechanisms.
Se lec t iona l  res t r i c t ions  can behe lp fu l  to reso lve  m-b igu i t ies .
For example, manyact ions  requ i re  an animate ac tor .
I f  there  aresevera l  cho ices  fo r  the ac tor ,  the inanimate onesw i l l  be weeded out .
Converse ly ,  i f  there  aresevera l  cho ices  fo r  the main ac t ion ,  and the ac torhas been es tab l i shed  as an imate,  then ~hose act ionswhich require an inanimate actor will be discarded.Se lect iona l  p re ferences  are  used in add i t ion  tose lec t ioua l  res t r i c t ions .
For example, i f  "eat"has an ob jec t  which is  a pronoun whose possiblere ferents  are a food and a co in ,  the food w i l l  bepre fer red  and the coin d i scarded  as a poss ib lere ferent .A conf l i c t  reso lu t ion  mechanism is  invoked i fmore than one concept sa t i s f ies  the res t r i c t ionsand pre ferences .
This cons is ts  of us ing"conceptua l  const ra in ts"  to determine i f  the CDs t ructure  which would be bu i l t  is  p laus ib le .
Theseconst ra in ts  are pred icates  assoc ia ted  wi th  CDpr imi t ives .
For example, the locat iona l  spec i f ie rINSIDE has a const ra in t  which s ta tes  that  thecontents  must be smal le r  than the conta iner .The d i snmbiguat ion  process  can make use of theknowledge s t ructures  which represent  s tereotyp ica ldomain in fo rmat ion .
The conf l i c t  reso lu t iona lgor i thm a lso  determines  i f  the CD s t ructure  whichwould be bu i l t  re fe rs  to a scene in an ac t ivescript and prefers to build this type ofconceptualization.
At the end of the parse, ifthere is an ambiguous nominal, the possibilitiesare matched against the roles of the activescripts.
Nominals which can be a script role arepreferred.A planned extension to the parsing algorithmconsists of augmenting the definition of a wordsense with information about whether it is anuncommonly used sense, and the contexts in which i?could be used (see \[Charniak, 1981\]).
Only somesenses will be added to the active memory and if(DEF-WORD A/C (SENSE (AIRCRAFT))(SENSE (AIR-CONDITIONER)))(DEF-WOED EAT (SENSE \[EAT ACTOR (NIL)OBJECT (NIL)TO (*INSIDE I PLACE (~STOMACN ~ PART (NIL\]EXPECTATIONS (\[ IF (IN-ACT-SPOT #ANI}~TE)THEN ((SLOTS (TO PLACE PART)(ACTOR\]\[IF (IN-OBj-SPOT *PP*)PREFER (#~OOO)THEN ((SLOTS (OBJECT\]))\[DEF-WORD FLY (SENSE (FLY OBJECT (N~L)ACTOR (NIL)INSTE~NT ($IIY)TO (*PROX* PLACE (NIL))FROM (*PROX* PLACE (NIL)))EXPECTATIONS (\[IF (IN-ACT-SPOT AIRCRAFT)THEN ((SLOTS (OSJECT))) ~ELSE (IF (IN-ACT-SPOT BIRD)THEN ((SLOTS (ACTOR) (OBJECT)\])LEXICAL-EXPECTATIONS ((TO (MAKE-DEF (OB-PEEP ~ppw)(TO PLACE)(*~.oc*)))(FROM (MAKE-DEF (OS-Pg~P *PP*)(FROH PLACE)( *LOt* ) ) ) ) ) )I Figure 2.
APE-\[I Dictionary Definitions.none of those  concepts  can be connected ,  o thersenses  w i l l  be added.
A s imi la r  mechanism can beused fo r  potent ia l  pronoun re ferents ,  o rgan iz ingconcepts  accord ing  to imp l i c i t  or exp l i c i t  focus inadd i t ion  to the i r  locat ion  in ac t ive  or  open focusspaces (see \[Grosz, 1977\]).Another extens ion  to APE-I I  w i l l  be theincorporat ion  of a mechanism s imi la r  to the namedrequests  of APE.
However, because the expectat ionsof APE-I I  are in a dec la ra t ive  fo rmat ,  i t  i s  hopedthat  these requests  can be generated  from thecausa l ly  l inked scenes of the sc r ip t .QUESTION ANSWERINGAf ter  the meaning of a quest ion  has beenrepresented ,  the quest ion  is  answered by means ofpat tern - invoked ru les .
Typ ica l ly ,  the pat ternmatching process  b inds var iab les  to the majornominals  in a quest ion  conceptua l i za t ion .
There ferents  of these  nominals  are  used in execut ing  adatabase query which f inds  the answer to the user ' squest ion .
A l though the quest ion  conceptua l i za t ionand the answer could be used to generate  a natura llanguage response  \[Goldman, 1975\],  the cur rentresponse  fac i l i ty  merely subst i tu tes  the answer andre ferents  in a canned response  procedure  assoc ia tedwith each quest ion  answer ing ru le .The question answering rules are organizedaccording to the context in which they areappropriate, i.e., the conversational script\[Lehnert, 1978\], and according to the primitive ofthe conceptualization and the "path to the focus"of the question.
The path to the focus of aquestion is considered to be the path of conceptualcases which leads to the subconcept in question.A quest ion  answer ing  product ion  is  d i sp layedin F ig .
3.
I t  i s  a de fau l t  pat tern  des igned toanswer quest ions  about  which ob jec ts  are at  alocat ion .
This  pat tern  is  used to answer thequest ion  "~hat f ighters  do the a i rbasee  in WestGerlmny have?"
.
In  th i s  example,  the pat ternvar iab les  &LOC is  bound to the meaningrepresentat ion  of  " the  a i rbases  in West Germany"and &OBJECT is bound to the meaning representationof "fighters".
The action is then executed and thereferent of &OBJECT is found to be (FIGHTER) andthe referent of &LOC is found to be (HAHN SEMBACHBITBURG).
The fighters at each of these locationsis found and the variable ANSWER is bound to thevalue of MAPPAIR:((HAHN .
(F-4C F-15)) (SEMBACH .
NIL)(BITBURG .
(F -~ F-15))).The response facet of the question answeringproduction reformats the results of the action tomerse locations with the same set of objects.
Theanswer "There are none at Sembach.
Hahn andBitburg have F-4Cs and F-15s."
is printed onsuccess ive  i te ra t ione  of  PMAPC.The product ion  in F ig.
3 is  used to answermost quest ions  about ob jec ts  aC a locat ion .
I tinvokes a genera l  funct ion  which f inds  the subsetof ~he par ts  of a locat ion  which belong to acertain class.
The OCA (offensive counter air)script used by the KNOBS system contains a morespecific pattern for answering question about thedefenses of a location.
This production is used toanswer the question "What SAMe are at BE70701?
".The action of this production executes a procedurewhich finds the subset of the surface to airmissiles whose range is greater than the distanceto the location.76(DEF-Q-PAT PAT (*EXISTS w OBJECT &OBJECTLOt (*PIOX* PLACE &LOt))ACTION {MAPPAIR (FIND-REFEEEMTS &LOt)(FUNCTION (LAMBDA (LOt)(MAPCONC (FII;D-LZFERZNTS &OBJECT)(FUNCTION (LAMBDA (TYPE)'(FIND-OEJECTS-AT LOC TYPE\]RESPONSE \[PMAPC (MEEGEPAIRS ANSI~lt)(FUNCTION (LA~SDA (LOt ITZMS)(CO~D ((NULL II7~S)(MSG "There ere none se "(~aMZ LOC)" . '
) )(TIII~J~-PERSON?
"have" LOC)(~U~ ZTZMS) m.N\]q-l, OCUS (o~zcT Is-A)\]Ftoure 3.
A OuestHon Answertno Production.In  add i t ion  to execut ing  a database  query ,  theac t ion  of a ru le  can racure ive ly  invoke o therqueJCion answer ing ru les .
For example, to answerthe quest ion  '*Row many a i rbasa J  have F -At 'e?"
,  agenera l  ru le  conver ts  the conceptua l i za t ion  of thequest ion  to that  of '~h ich  a i rbaees  have F-At?e?
"and counts  the resu l t  of answer ing the la rger .
Thequest ion  answer ing ru les  can a l so  be used to f indthe re ferent  of complex nominals  such as " thea i rbases  which have F-AC'e".
The path to the focusof  the "quest ion"  is  ind icated  by the conceptua lcase of the re la t ive  pronoun.INFERENCEwhen important  ro les  are not f i l l ed  in aconcept ,  "conceptua l  complet ion"  in fe rences  arerequ i red  to in fe r  the f i l l e rs  of conceptua l  cases .Our conceptua l  complet ion in fe rences  are expressedas ru les  represented  and organized in a manneranalogous to quest ion  answer ing ru les .
The path  tothe focus of a conceptua l  complet ion in fe rence  iethe conceptua l  case which i t  is  intended coexp l ioate .
Conceptual  complet ion in fe rences  arerun only when necessary ,  i .e .
,  when requ i red  by thepat tern  m4tcher to enable a quest ion  answer ingpat tern  (or  even another  in fe rence  pat tern)  tomatch success fu l ly ,An example conceptua l  complet ion in fe rence  isi l l us t ra ted  in FiE.
4.
I t  is  des igned to in fe r  themiss ing  source of a phys ica l  t rans fer .
The pat ternbinds the var iab le  &OBJECT co the f i l l e r  of theOBJECT ro le  and thq act ion  executes  a funct ionwhich looks at the LOCATION case of &OBJECT orchecks the database for the known location of thereferent of &OBJECT.
This inference would not beused in processin E the question "Which aircraft atRamstein could reach the target from Hahn?"
becausethe source has been explicitly stated.
It would beused,  on the o ther  hand, in p rocess ing  thequest ion ,  "Which a i rc ra f t  at Ramstein can reach theta rget?"
.
I t s  e f fec t  would be to f i l l  the FROMs lo t  of the quest ion  conceptua l i za t ion  withRAMSTEIN.77(DEF-IHFERZNCE PAT (*PT~S* OBJECT &OBJECT)ACTION (F~MD-LOCATION &OBJECT)I}IlP~BJKNCB (FROM))Ftgure 4; A Concelat Completion Inference.If a quest ion  answer ing product ion  cannot befound to respond to a quest ion ,  and the quest ionre fers  Co a scene in an ac t ive  sc r ip t ,  causa lin fe rences  are used CO f ind  an answerable  quest ionvh ich  can be const ructed  as a s ta te  or  ac t ion~upl iad by the or ig ina l  quest ion .
These in fe rencesare  represented  by causa l  links \[CullinKford, 1978\]which connect the lC l te l  and act ions  of as tereotyp ica l  s i tuat ion .
The causa l  l inks  used fo rth i s  type of in fe rence  are RESULT (ac t ions  canresu l t  in s ta te  changes) ,  ENABLE (s ta tes  can enableac t ion) ,  and EESULT-ENA3LE (an act ion  resu l t s  in as ta te  which enab les  an ac t ion) .
This las tin fe rence  is  so coumon that  i t  is  g iven a spec ia ll i nk .
In  soma cases ,  the in termed ia te  s ta te  isun impor tant  or  unknown.
In  add i t ion  to causa ll inks ,  temporal  l inks  are a l so  represented  toreason  about the sequencing of ac t ions .The causal inference process consists oflocating a script paCtern of an active script whichrepresents  the scene of the sc r ip t  re fer red  to by aquest ion .
The pat tern  matchfnE a lgor i thm assuresthat  the constants  ~n the pat tern  are a super -c lassof the constants in the conceptual hierarchy of FRLframes.
The variables in script patterns are thescript roles which represent the common objects andactors of the script.
The binding of script rolesto subconcepts of a question conceptualization issubject to the recursive matching of patterns whichindicate the common features of the roles.
(Thiswill be explained in more detail in the section oninteractive script instantiation.)
After the scenereferenced by the user question is identified, anew question concept is constructed by substitutingro le  b ind ings  in to  pat terus  represent ing  s ta tes  oractions linked to the identified scene.Two scr ip t  pat terns  from the OCA scr ip t  arei l l us t ra ted  in F ig .
5.
The sc r ip t  pat tern  named(DZF-SCRIPT-PAT(DEF-SCRIYT-PATNAME At-FLY-TO-TARGETPAT (*PTRANS* OBJECT &OCA:AIRCRAFTTO (*FROX* PLACE &0CA:TARGET)FROM (*PROX* PLACE &OCA:AIRHASE))SCRIPT OCAAFTER At-HIT-TARGETRESULT-ENABLE At-HIT-TARGETRESULT At-OVER-TARGET)NAME AC-HIT-TARCETPAT (*PROPEL* ACTOR &OCA:AIRCRAFTTO (*LOCSPEC* PLACE &0CA:TARGET)OBJECT &OCA:SCL)SCRIPT OCARESULT TARGET-IS-DESTROYEDAFTER At-FLY-BACK)Figure 5.
Definitions of Script Patterns,AC-FLY-TO-TARCET matches the meaning of  sentenceswhich re fer  to the a i rc ra f t  f l y ing  to the ta rgetfrom an a i rbase .
I t  resu l t s  in the a i rc ra f t  beingover the ta rget  which enab les  the a i rc ra f t  toa t tack  the ta rget .
The scr ip t  pat ternAt-HIT-TARGET represents  the prope l l ing  of a weapontoward the ta rget .
It resu l t s  in the dest ruct ion  ofthe ta rget ,  and i s  followed by the a i rc ra f t  f l y ingback Co the a i rbase .The knowledge represented  by these  sc r ip tpat terns  is  needed to answer the quest ion  "Whataircraft at Hahn can strike BE70701?".
The answerproduced by KNOBS, "Y-15s can reach BE70701 fromHahn.
", requires a causal inference and a conceptcompletion inference.
The first step in producingthis answer is to represent the meaning of thesentence .
The conceptua l i za t ion  produced by APE-I fi s  shown in F ig .
6a.
A search  fo r  a quest ionanswering pat tern  to answer this fails, so causalinferences are tried.
The question concept isidentified Co he the AC-HIT-TARGET scene of the 0CAscript, and the scene which RESULT-ENABLEs it,AC-FLY-TO-TARGET is instantiafied.
This newquestion conceptualization is displayed in Fig 6b.A question answering pattern whose focus is (OBJECTIS-A) is found which could match the inferredquestion (Fig.
6c).
To enable this pattern to matchthe inferred question, the FROM case must beinferred.
This is accompl ished by a conceptcompletion inference which produces the completeconceptualization shown in Fig.
6d.
Finally, theaction and response of the question answering areexecuted to calculate and print ~n answer.INTERACTIVE SCRIPT INSTANTIATIONThe script patterns which describe therelationships among the scenes of a situation arealso used by the KNOBS system to guide aconversation about that domain.
The conversationwith KNOBS in Fig.
7 illustrates the entering ofplan components by interactively insCantiatingscript patterns.The first user sentence instantiaces twoscript patterns (the flying of aircraft, and thes t r i k ing  of a ta rget )  and binds the sc r ip t  ro les :TARGET Co BE70501, WING to 109TFW, AIRCRAFT-NUMBERto 4,  and TIME-OVER-TARGET to 0900.
KNOB~ asks theuser  to se lec t  the AIRCRAFT.
Because the userreplied with a question whose answer is anaircraft, KNOBS asks if the user would like wouldlike to use chat  aircraft am a component of thedeve lop ing  p lan .
This i s  accompl i shed by a ru lethat  i s  ac t ivated  when KNOBS asks  the user  tospec i fy  a p lan  component.
The in terpretat ion  of  theuser  s negat ive  answer is  handled by s ru leac t ivated  when KNOBS asks a yes -no  quest ion .
KNOBSchecks the cons is tency  of the user ' s  answer andexp la ins  a const ra inc  which has fa i led .
Then, theuser  cor rects  th i s  problem,  and KNOBS processes  theext ra  information supp l ied  by matching the meaningof the user ' s  input  to a sc r ip t  pat tern .
(*PROPEL* TO (*PROX* PLACE (BE70701))ACTOR (AIRCRAFT IS-A (*?
*)LOC (AT PLACE (HAHN)))OBJECT (NIL)MODE (*POTENTIAL*))Figure 6a.
The Meaning Representation of"What ~ircraft at Hahn can strike BE70701?
"(*PTRANS ~ OBJECT (AIRCRAFT IS-A (*?
*)LOt (AT PLACE (HAHN)))TO (*PROX* PLACE (BE70701))FROM (*PROX* PLACE (alL)), MODE (*POTENTIAL*))Fioure 6b.
The Conceot Inferred from 6a.
(What aircraft at Hahn can go to BE70701?
)( *~I~S*  TO (*PROX* PLACE &TARGET)FROM (*PROX* PLACE &AIRBASE)OBJECT &AIRCRAFT)Fiqure 6c.
A Question Answering Patternwhich could Match 6b.
(*PTRANS* OBJECT (AIRCP.AFT IS-A (*?~)LOt (AT PLACE (HAHN)))TO (*PROX* PLACE (BET0701))FROM (*PROX ~ PLACE (HAHN))MODE (*POTENTIALS))Fiqure 6d.
The Complete Question Conceptualization afterInferring the Source.78USER:KNOBS:USER:KNOBS:USEI:EHOBS:USER:Send 4 a i rcraf t  from the Logcfv co sc:iks SE7050L at 0900.Whac a i rcraf t  do you vane to use7What alrcrafc are in the I09TI~TThe I09TFW has F-4Cs.WouLd you Like to use F-4Cs for the a i rcraft?NO, F-4Gs.The 10~r~ does nOC co~tain F-4Gs.F17 the P-4Gs out of the 126TFW st Eamscsia.Ftaure 7.
A Conversation with ~OSS.
(DEF-ROLE-PAT PAT (AIRCR?YT L0C (*pgOXt PLACE &OCA:AI/t3ASE)PART (PART ARGUMENT &OCA:WING))SCB.IPT-NOLZ &OCA: AIRCRAFTSCIIPT OCA)Figure 8.
A Script Role Pattern.A scr ip t  ro le  can be bound by matching aga ins tpat terns  assoc ia ted  wi th  o ther  sc r ip t  ro les  inadd i t ion  to matching aga ins t  sc r ip t  pat terns .
F ig .8 shows a ro le  pat tern  assoc ia ted  wi th  the sc r ip tro le  AIRCL~YT.
This  pat tern  serves  two purposes :to prevent  b ind ings  to the sc r ip t  ro le  vh ichwou ldnot  make sense ( i .e .
,  the ob jec t  which p lays  theAIRCRAFT ro le  ~st  be an a i rc ra f t )  and torecurs ive ly  bind o ther  sc r ip t  ro les  to a t tachedconcepts .
In  th i s  exemple, the AIRBASE or the ~NCcould be a t tached to the AIRCRAFT concept ,  e .g .
,"F-4Cs from Hahn" or "F-dCa in the 126TFW".The in teract ive  sc r ip t  in terpreter  i s  ana l te rnat ive  to the menu system prov ided by KNOBSfor  the enter ing  of important  components of a p lanCo be checked for  cons is tency .
KNOBS a lso  prov idesa means of automat ica l ly  finishing the c reat ion  ofa cons is tent  p lan .
This can a l low an exper iencedmiss ion  p lanner  to enter  a p lan by typ ing one ortwo sentences  and h i t t ing  a key which te l l s  KNOBSco choose the unspec i f ied  components.TRANSFERRING DOMAINSTo demonstrate  the i r  domain independence,  theKNOBS System and APE-II have been prov ided wi thknowledge bases to plan and answer quest ions  aboutnaval  "show of f lag"  miss ions .
This  vers ion  ofKNOBS a lso  uses FRL as a database language.A l a rge  por t ion  of the quest ion  answer ingcapab i l i ty  was d i rec t ly  app l i cab le  fo r  a number ofreasons .
F i r s t  of all, d ic t ionary  ent r ies  fo rframes are const ructed  automat ica l ly  when theyappear in a user  query.
The de f in i t ions  of thea t t r ibutes  ( s lo ts )  of a frame which are representedas RELATIONs are a l so  const ructed  when needed.
Thedefinitions of many common words such as "be","have", "a", "of", etc., would be useful inunderstanding questions in any domain.
Thequestion answering productions and conceptcompletion inferences are separated into defaultand domain specific categories.
Many of the simplebut common queries are handled by default patterns.For example, "Which airbases have fighters?"
and"What ports have cruisers?"
are answered by thesame default pattern.
Currently, the Navy versionof KNOBS has 3 domain specific question answeringpat terns ,  compared to 22 in the Air  Force vers ion .
(There are  46 de fau l t  pat terns . )
The mostimpor tant  knowledge s t ructure  miss ing  in the Navydomain is the sc r ip ts  which are  needed to per formcausa l  in fe rences  and d ia log  d i rec ted  p lann ing .There fore ,  the system can answer the quest ion  "Whatweapons does the Nimitz have?"
,  but  can ' t  answer'~ihat weapons does the NimiCz car ry?"
.CONCLUSIONWe have argued that  the process ing  of natura llanguaae database  quer ies  should be dr iven  by themeaning of the input ,  as determined pr imar i ly  bythe emaninss  of the const i tuent  words.
Thezuechanisms prov ided for  word sense se lec t ion  andfo r  the in fe rence  of miss ing  meaning e lementsu t i l i ze  a var ie ty  of  knowledge sources .
I t  i sbe l ieved  Chat th i s  approach w i l l  prove more genera land extens ib le  than those based ch ie f ly  on thesur face  s t ruc ture  of  the natura l  language query .ACKNOWLZDGENEI~ SWe would l i ke  to thank Tom Fawcett ,  BudFrawley,  Frank Je rn igan ,  and Ethan Scar l  fo r  the i rCO1vementS.This work was suppor ted  by USAF E lec t ron icsSystem D iv i s ion  under Air  Force cont ractF19628-82-C-0001.KEFERENCESBirnbaum, L .
,  and Se l f r idge ,  M., "ConceptualAna lys i s , "  in Ins%de Ar t i f i c ia l  In te l l i2ence :  FiveProera~# Plus Miniatures.
Schank, R., Riesbeck, C.K.
(was) ,  Lawrence Erlbaum Assoc ia tes ,  N i l l sda le ,NJ, 1981.Charniak,  E. ,  "Six Topics in Search of a Parser :  AnOverview of AI Language Research," in Proceeds o_.~fth.._ee 7~h International Joint Conference o__nnArtificial Intelli2ence, Vancouver, 1981.Cullingford, R., "Script Application: ComputerUnderstanding of Newspaper Stories," ResearchReport I16, Department of Computer Science, YaleUnivers i ty ,  1978.CullinKford, R. and Pazzani, M., "Word MeaningSelection in Multimodule Language-ProcessingSystems," TR-82-13, EE&CS Dept., University ofConnecticut, 1982.79Engelman, C., Scarl ,  E., and Berg, C., " Interact iveFrame Ins tant ia t lon , "  in Proc.
of The Firs~ AnnualConfere~c~ on Ar t i f i ;~a l  In te l l igen;~,  Stanford,1980.Goldman, N., "Conceptual Generation," in ConceptualInformation Processing.
Schank, R. (ed),Ninth-Holland Publishing Company, 1975.Grosz, B., "The Representation and Use of Focus inDia log Understanding," SRI Technical Note 151,1977.Hendrix, G. G., Sacerdoti,  E. D., Sagalowicz, D.,and Slocum, J .
,  '*Developing a Natural LanguageInterface to Complex Data."
Association forComputing Machinery Transactions on DatabaseSystems.
Volume 3, Number 2, June 1978.Katz, J .
S. and Fodor, J.
A., "The Structure ofSemantic Theory," Language.
39, 1963.Lehnert, W., Th_..ee Process of Question Answering.
AComvuter Simulation of Cognition.
Lawrence ErlbaumAssociates, Inc .
,  1978.Reisbeck, C., and Schank, R. Co, "Comprehension byComputer: Expectation Based Analysis of Sentencesin Context," Research Report #78, Department ofComputer Science Yale University, 1976.Roberts, R. Bruce, and Goldstein, Ira P., "The FRLManual," MIT AI Lab.
Memo 409, September 1977.Schank, R., "Conceptual Dependency: A Theory ofNatural Language Understanding," Co2nitivePsvcholoxT.
Vol.
3, No.
4, 1972.Small, S., "Word Expert Parsing: A Theory ofDistributed Word-Based Natural LanguageUnderstanding," TR-954, University of Maryland1980.Wilks, Y., Grammar.
Meaning ~ The Machine Analysisof LanguaRe.
London, 1972.Woods, W. A., Kaplan, R. M., and Nash-Webber, B.,"The Lunar Sciences Natural Language InformationSystem."
BBN Report 2378, Bole, Beranek, andNewman Inc., Cambridge, MA, 1972.80
