APPLICATION OF THE LIBERMAN-PRINCE STRESS RULESTO COMPUTER SYNTHESIZED SPEECHDavid L. McPeters* and Alan L. TharpComputer Science DepartmentNorth Carolina State UniversityRaleigh, North Carolina 27650 USAABSTRACTComputer synthesized speech is and will con-tinue to be an important feature of many artifi-cially intelligent systems.
Although currentcomputer synthesized speech is intelligible, itcannot yet pass a Turing test.
One avenue forimproving the intelligibility of computer synthe-sized speech and for making it more human-like isto incorporate stress patterns on words.
But toachieve this improvement, a set of stress predic-tion rules amenable to computer implementation isneeded.This paper evaluates one such theory for pre-dlcting stress, that of Liberman and Prince.
Itfirst gives an overview of the theory and thendiscusses modifications which were necessary forcomputer implementation.
It then describes anexperiment which was performed to determine themodel's strengths and shortcomings.
The paper con-cludes with the results of that study.I INTRODUCTIONSince speech is such an important componentof human activities, it is essential that it beincluded in computer systems simulating humanbehavior or performing human tasks.
Advantages ofinteracting with a computer system capable ofspeech include tha=a) special equipment (e.g.
a terminal) isunnecessary for receiving output from thedevice.b) the output may be communicated to severalpeople simultaneously.c) it m~y be used to gain someone's atten-tion.d) it is useful in communicating informationin an emergency.
*Current address: Bell Laboratories, Indianapolis,Indiana 46219.192The primary methods for generating computersynthesized speech are i) to use a lexicon of wordpronunciations and then assemble a message fromthese stored words or 2) to use a letter-to-soundtranslator.
A shortcoming common to both methods,and of interest to linguists and more recentlycomputer scientists, is the inclusion of Englishprosody in computer synthesized speech e.g.
Klatt\[6\], Lehlste \[8\], Wltten et al\[ll\] and Hill \[5\].Of the three primary components of Englishprosody, this paper considers only stress (theother two are intonation and pause).
It appliesthe theory for stress prediction proposed by lin-guists Mark Liberman and Alan Prince \[9\] to com-puter synthesized speech.
Their theory was chosenprimarily as a result of it having received wide-spread attention since its introduction (seeParadls \[lO\], Yip \[12\], FuJimura \[3 and 4\] andBasboll \[2\]).II THE LIBERMAN-PRINCE MODELIn addition to the attention it received, theLiberman-Prince model \[9\] (hereafter referred toas rhe LP model) is attractive for computer appli-cation for two other reasons.
First, the majorityof its rules can be applied without knowledge ofthe lexical category (part-of-speech) of the wordbeing processed since the rules are based only onthe sequences and attributes of letters in a word.This feature is especially important in an unre-stricted text-to-speech translation system.Secondly, since the metrical trees that define theprominence relations are a common data structure,a computer model may be designed which remainsvery close to the foundations and intentions ofthe theoretical model.This section will summarize the LP theory aspresented in \[9\].
The LP method of predictingstress focuses on two attributes of vowels: ?
or- !on~ and + or - low.
The ~ of b~e is +lon~ whilethe ?
of ~ is -lonE.
Each of the vowels hasboth a + and - lon~ pronunciation.
For example:state, sat, pint, pin, snow, pot, cute, and cup.The attribute + or - low is named for the heightof the tongue in the mouth during articulation ofthe sound (see Figure i).
During production of a+low vowel, the tongue is low in the mouth whileit is high for a -lo.~w vowel.
Speaking aloud thewords in the figure demonstrates this difference.front back TABLE I.
Examples of the ESR.hi gh.I a, b. c. d.mid .2 .7.3low .4 .5.6Figure i. Tongue vowel poslclons.The relative position of the highest points of thetongue in vowels in 1 heed, 2 hid, 3 bead, 4 had,5 father, 6 good, 7 food.
\[7\].America ardma defdct ive  negdcecan6n ica l  Carddna referdndum repdteEverest  hormonal amalgam er6deasparagus horlzon erector balloonpolygamous desirous anarthrous ballyhooelephant adjacent Charybdis exploitStress is not inherent to vowels in isolationbut is present only wlthin words.
Stress of avowel phoneme wichln a word is a relative qualitythat is noticeable only by contrast with surround-ing phonemes.
Consonant phonemes may also bedefined in terms of several different actrlbuces,but within thls theory their main purpose is tocombine with vowels Co complete the syllables~ructure  of the words.In English, each syllable of a word moat con-cain aC least one vowel.
A syllable can be asingle vowel, rode-E; it may be an open syllablewith the vowel at a syllable boundary, po-llce,ar-tlculate or it may be a closed syllable withthe vowel surrounded by consonants, Mo__n-tana.
Theterm 'vowel ~ in this context means vowel phonemeand noc orthographic vowel; the same is true forconsonants.
The c h in thine is considered a sin-gle consonant phoneme.The LP model defines context sensitive rulesthac can be used co predict which vowels within aword should be s t ressed .
The three  ru le  typesare:l) English Stress Rule and the Stress Retrac-tion Rule - ESR and SRR,2) English Descressing Rule - EDR, and3) Exceptionless Vowel Lengthening Rule - EVL.As the names imply, the first and second rules dealwith assignment of + or - stress, while the thirdpredicts which vowels should belong.
All threerules operate within a word from right to left.In the f i r s t  s tage ,  the shape of the penu l t i -mate (next - to - las t )  sy l lab le  determines the ass ign -ment of the + stress attribute using the ESR rule.
"If the penultimate vowel is short and followed by(at most) one consonant, then stress falls on thepreceding syllable," \[9\] as in Table l(a).
"Zfthe penultimate vowel is long \[Table l(b)\] or fol-lowed by two or more consonants \[Table l(c)\] thenit must bear stress itself."
\[9\] Each of ~heprevious statements assumes the final vowel isshort.
The fourth case of the ESR says thac if thefinal vowel is long then ic must bear stress,Table l(d).
(See \[9\] for exceptions Co thisfirst s tage .
)~n the second stage, the +stress attribute isassigned based on the position of the leftmost+stress vowel in the word.
Since the ruleretracts stress across the word It is called theStress Retraction Rule (SRR).The ESR and SRR mark certain vowels to bestressed; this however does not imply that whenthe word is spoken, each of the vowels will bestressed.
There are instances, depending on thecharacteristics of the word, where vowels willlose their stress through the application of theEnglish Destressin8 Rule (EDR).The EDR depends on the notion of metricalcrees whose purpose it is to give an alternatingrhythm to the syllables of a word and define therelative prominence of each syllable within theword.
Rhythm is reflected by the assignment ofthe actrlbuce ~, strong, to stressed syllables andw, weak, co unstressed syllables.
For the wordslabor, ca?rlce, and Pamela the trees are simple(see Figure 2).
The first rule in building thetree is if the vowel is -stress then its attributeis ~, if the vowel is +stress then it may be ~ orw.
The root node of any independent subtree orthe root node of the final tree is not labeled.The ~ E labeling defines a contrast between twoadjacent components of a word; therefore, a SOfi-tary s or E would have no meaning.A AS W W Scaprice+ - - +s w wPameLa+ - .Figure 2.
Assignment of s and w.Each time a +stress is assigned by either theESR or the SRR an attempt is made to add co thetree.
As in the word labor a node is added to thetree and the vowels are marked s or w according totheir stress markings, + or -.
Next, anyunattached vowels co the rlghc of the new node areadded, as wlch Pamela.
This builds a series ofbinary subcrees chat are necessarily left branchin~193(see Figure 3).
There are some situations wherenothing can be added to the tree after the assign-ment of +stress.
Such words cause a rephrasing o{the second step above to become: next attach anyvowels to the right of the present vowel that havenot been attached durin 8 the operation of a pre-vious rule.These t%/o steps allow trees such as those inFigure 4 to be formed.
Two questions remain.
Howis the tree completed?
How are the ~, ~ relationsdefined above the vowel level?To answer the first question; after allunattached vowels to the right have been attachedinto a left branching subtree, this subtree isjoined to the highest node of the subtree imme-diately to the right, if it exists (see Figure 5).AS W S %/ W S W W %/+ + -- -- + -- --F igure  3, Leftbranching binary subtrees.S ~ S %/ W SW ~%/~%/  S W W1 lli\[l I II I Iii teleo Og ca reconcil atlon executeFigure 4.
Connection of unattached nodes.The ~, ~ assignment is made by the LexicalCategory Prominence Rule (LCPR).
In its simplestform it states: In the configuration \[N1,N2\]within a lexical category, N2 is s if and only ifit branches.
The LCPR has already been used inthe stress assignments of teleological , Pamel@,and execute, to connect unattached vowels to theright of the + - sequences.
The LCPR also followsthe convention that no -stress vowel is assigneds .A N1 N2 w s; I  " XI,(\ /I/\ /\s ~ s %/ w S W%; S wwI lllll IIII!Itexeoxogical texeoxog lcaxFigure 5.
LCPR example.194To insure that all vowels are included in thetree, one final step is necessary as illustratedby the word Monongahela.
Following the rules aspreviously outlined will generate a stress assign-ment and tree such as that in Figure 6(a).
Thefirst vowel must be included in the tree to pro-duce Figure 6(b), This is done as the last stageof tree building.
The LCPR is used in this caseto Join the vowel and the tree structure and toassign ~, w values.=oo!o=Li !
Io!o=LL!++ - +-  ++ - +-Figure 6.
Final step in treebuilding.The English Destressin8 Rule (EDR) is used todeterm/ne which vowels should be reduced.
Gener-ally t%/o things happen when a vowel is reduced.First, it will lose its +stress attribute andsecondly, the vowel sound will be reduced to aschwa (an indeterminate sound in many unstressedsyllables, e.g.
the leading ~ in America).
Therule is based on the tree prominance relations ofthe uuetrical trees, and is restricted to operatingon only those vowels that have been marked +stressby either the ESR or SKE (see \[9\]).Finally the Exceptionless Vowel LengtheningRule (see \[9\]) is applied to handle apparentexceptions in the operation of the ESR, e.g.
wordssuch as alien, simultaneous, radium and labiawhich contain a vowel sequence preceding the vowelto be stressed.III I~LE~iENTAT I ONConverting a theoretical model such as tha:proposed by LP into a computerized implementationposes problems.
One concern is whether she rulesand definitions of the theory are well suited to acomputer implementation, or if not, must they betransformed to such an extent that they no longerresemble the originals?
Fortunately the LP theoryis expressed in rules and definitions that easilylend themselves to an implementation.Overcoming other problems while remainingclose to the LP theory involves a careful combina-tion of three factors.
First, certain modifica-tions must be made with the application of therules for locating the +stress attribute and build-ing metrical trees.
Second, several assumptionsmust be made about the exact definitions of theterms such as VOWEL and CONSONANT.
Third, some ofthe rules which are too general must be restricted.None of these modifications causes a drasticreshaping of the model.Three outcomes exist for a word being pro-cessed by such a system.
One, the stress patternof the word will be correctly predicted.
Two, thestress pattern of the word will be incorrectlypred ic ted .
Three ,  the  word w i l l  drop throughw i thout  the  sys tem be ing  ab le  to p red ic t  anystress.
Any modifications, assumptions orreet r i c t ioas  imposed shou ld  be done w i th  thepr imary  in tent  o f  reduc ing  the  number o f  words fo rwhich an incor rec t  s t ress  pat te rn  i s  p red ic ted ,even i f  th i s  means inc reas ing  the  number o f  wordswhich drop through.One modlflcation was to use a phonetic trans-lation of the word instead of its s~andard spell-ing.
This ~eant working from an underlying repre-sentation rather than the surface representation.By working from the underlying representation, theattributes +-stress, and +-low could be dlfferen-flared from the phonetic alphabet characterdirectly because a +lon~ vowel and a -lon 8 vowelwould be represented by two different charactersin the phonetic alphabet.
Four immediate resultsoccur from maklng this modification.
First, sin-gle consonant sounds such as the t_hhln thln~ arerepresented by a single character.
However, thesame is not true for dlpthongs.
Both IPA symbolsand VOTRAX codes (a VOTRAX ML-I speech synthesizerwas used to output the results of the stress pre-diction) for d lpthongs  are multiple charactercodes.
Second, in a phonet ic  translatlon allreduced vowels are already reduced.
Therefore forthe most part the EDR is of llttle value.
It onlyretains its usefulness for initial syllables thatare not stressed but whose vowel is not schwa.This syllable will draw stress by the SRR creatinga situation for the EDR to apply.
Third, the ESRand SRR also operate less freely because they willnot apply stress to a schwa.
Fourth, a new ruleis required to operate in conjunction with the EVL.This rule must give a final +!on~ vowel, such asthe ~ in stor~, the -lon~ attribute so that theESR can correctly assign stress.A second change was that the SRR could beapplied in accordance with the principle of dis-junctlve ordering.
This situation results fromthe fact that a translator system has no lexicon.Although the words therefore cannot be marked fora particular type of s~rees retraction (SRR), itdoes not  cause  a major  problem.One implication of these modifications is thesequential ordering of the rules which group wordsinto classes based solely on the characteristicsof their phonetic translation.
Therefore any setof stress rules should be organized in terms of a'best fi~' mode of application.
Secondly, thestress rules cannot be defined in a way that candifferentiate syllable boundaries, so no rule canbe based on the concept of a 'light' or 'heavy'syllable.
Although the stress rule input form doesallow an affix option, it should be kept in mindthat the e nn of enforce is considered a prefix aswell as the ann of English.
Finally, there can beno distinction between words based on the wordstem or the word origin, except, in the case ofword origin, if it can be defined in terms of adlstinc~ affix.
For example the Greek prefixhetero in: heterodox, heter0ny ~, or heterosexualis a candidate for long retraction by the SRR.Although the application model is a modifiedversion of the LP model, it still operates in themanner of their original intent.IV EVALUATIONAn experiment was conducted to evaluatestress placemenc using the computerized version ofthe LP model.
A random sample of unique Englishwords and their correct phonetic translations usedfor the axperlment was selected from the AmericanHeritage Dictionary \[i\].
Five hundred pairs ofrandom numbers were generated; the first number inthe pair was a random number between one and thepage number of the last page in the dictionary andthe second one was a random number between one andsixty.
For each pair, the first number was thepage on which the random word was to be found andthe second number, 2, determined the word to bethe ~'th on the page.
If ~ was larger than theactual number of words on the page, then n modulothe number of words on the page was used.
If theselected word was not polysyllabic, It wasrejected.
Using this technique, 357 unique randomwords were selected.
Each word was translatedinto ASCII codes for the VOTRAX according to thephonetic translation in the dictionary.
Thesetranslations were then given as input to thestress system.Because the words in the random sample con-tain combinatlons of primary, secondary, andtertiary stress, several methods arise for evalu-atlng the results (listed in the order of impor-tance):i) The number of words completely correct,the number of words incorrect, and thenumber of words which dropped through.2) The number of times primary, secondary,and tertiar 7 stress were each individuallypredicted correctly regardless of theother two.3) The number of times when secondary ortertiary stress was incorrectly predicted.4) The number of rimes secondary or tertiarystress was predicted but the word did notrequ i re  it.5) The number of times secondary or tertiarystress was needed but not predicted.The figures for the first evaluation are shownin Table 2.
The totally correct words are slightlyunder two thirds of the entire sample.
However,when the words with correct stress and the wordswhich fell through are combined, the total isslightly over 70X.~95TABLE 2.
Words: correct, incorrect, unmodified.Correct Incorrect Unmodified# 226 I01 30% 63.3 28.29 8 .4The results of the second evaluation areshown in Table 3.
While primary stress is pre-dicted correctly in 75% of the cases, secondarystress is only 53Z and tertiary stress occurs tooinfrequently to make any observations.
The numberin parentheses in Table 3 indicates the total num-ber of the particular stress level required.words of Table 2.
The importance of this factappears when one considers that the stress patternis partially correct, but is not distortec byincorrect stressing.
Therefore even though par-tial, this stress pattern would be an improvement.If these words are now combined with the totallycorrect words and those which dropped through,they equal 291 words or 81.51%, i.e.
almost 82~ ofthe words can be stressed totally, partially, orleft unchanged.TABLE 6.
Secondary and tertiary stress whichwas not predicted.Secondary TertiaryTABLE 3.
Individual stress levels correct.# 35(128) 0% 27.34 0Primary Secondary Tertiary# 270(357) 68(128) 3(4)Z 75.63 53.12 75.The third evaluation results are shown inTable 4.
The 19Z in which secondary stress wasplaced on the wrong syllable is small but stillsignificant.
Again tertiary stress occurrenceswere too few to make observations.TABLE 4.
Incorrect prediction of secondary andtertiary stress.Secondary Tertiary# 25(128) 1(4)% 19.53 25.With 63.3% of the sample words completelycorrect, 73.10% of the sample words completely orpartially correct, 8.4% unmodified and 18.49% inerror, this test has demonstrated that the stressmodel defined by the stress system and its inputrules does work in a substantial percentage ofcases.Of the 66 words that were incorrectlystressed, most fall into one of four categories.I) Two syllable words where the vowelpattern is -lons -lon~ or +lons +lon~ andthe last syllable is stressed.
In thesecases the stress system incorrectlyassigns stress to the first vowel: e.g.,transact, mistrust.2) Words in which the ESR or SKR skips oversyllables that should be stressed, e.g.isodynamic, epox-/, comprehend, remitter,inopportune.The results of the fourth test are given inTable 5.
Considering that there were 357 words inthe sample, this is a relatively small number oferroneous predictions.TABLE 5.
Stress that should not have beenpredicted.Secondary Tertiary# 3 1Finally the fifth evaluation leads to Table 6.This table shows the number of times secondary ortertiary stress was required but not predicted.
Aninterpretation of this table suggests that for 35words which needed both primary and secondarystress, only primary stress was predicted.
Thesewords are also included in the incorrectly stressed3) When in a two syllable word, the wordstem vowel is short and the prefix orsuffix vowel is long, the long vowel ismarked for stress, e.g.
fancied.4) The LCPR does not correctly assign nodes~, ~, values, e.g.
contumacy, Kastight.Each of these groups is an exception to a largergroup whose stress patterns fit the predictedpatterns.A final question is: How well does thissystem predict stress in the most common Englishwords?
Of the 200 most common, 162 have a singlevowel in their phonetic translation and thereforewould drop through the system without being modi-fied.
Of the 38 remaining words, 33 are correctlystressed by the stress system, leaving 5 incor-rectly stressed.
However, since these are themost common of words of English, it would seemreasonable to include these words as special rules196in the rule system of the translator and not allowthe stress system to operate on them.V SUI~t~YComputer synthesized speech and linguistictheories for predicting stress can interact withone another to mutual benefit.
Computer synthe-sized speech techniques can be used to evaluatethe linguistic theory.
Just as computers havebeen used so often to evaluate theories in otherdisclpllnes, so too can ~hey be used in linguis-tics.
The organizationt speed, accuracy andunblasedness of the computer makes it superiorto a person in many respects for Judging ahypothesis.On the other hand, the linguistic theoriescan provide a substantial base on which to buildlanguage components of artificially intelligentsystems.
The intelligibility of computer syn-thesized speech can be improved with the applica-tion of linguistic theories for predicting stresssuch as that proposed by Liberman and Prince.Evaluations such as that presented in thispaper will be of value not only in comparing com-peting theories but will also be helpful in deter-m/ning whether the accuracy of a theory's predlc-tions is acceptable for a particular applicationand where improvements ,my be made to the theory.VI REFERENCES9.
Libarman, M. and Prince, A., On Stress andLinsuistlc Rhythm, Linsulstlc Inquir~,8(2): 249-336, 1977.I0.
Paradls, C., The Role of Canadian Raising andAnalysis in Syllabic Structure, CanadianJournal of Lin~uisclcs, 25, 35-45, 1980.ii.
Witten, I. H. and Abbess, J., A mlcrocom-puter-based speech synthesis-by-rulesystem, Inc. Journal of Man-MachineStudle_.__.._~ss, ii: 585-620, 1977.12.
Yip, M., The Metrical Structure of RegulatedVersa, Journal of Chinese Linguistics, 8:107-125, 1980.i.
American HeritaBe Dictlonar 7, 1980.2.
Basboll, H., Phonology, Language and Speech,23: 91-111, 1980.3.
Fujimura, O., Perception of Stop Consonantswith Conflicting Transitional Cues: ACross-Lingulstlc Study, Language and Speech,21, 337-346, 1978.4.
Fujimura, O., Modern Methods of Investigationin Speech PToductlon~ Phonetica, 37: 38-54,5.
Hill, D. R., A program structure for event-based speech synthesis by rules within aflexible segmental framework, Int.
Journalof Man-Machine Studies, i0: 285-294, 1978.6.
~latt, D. H., Linguistic uses of segmentalduration in English: Acoustic and percep-tual evidence, Journal of the AcousticalSociety of America, 1976.7.
Ladefoged, P., A Course in Phonetics, HarcourtBrace Jovanovich, Inc., 1975.8.
Lehlste, I., Suprase~mentals, The M.I.T.Press, 1970.197
