HANDLING ILL-FORMED INPUT: SESSION INTRODUCTIONRalph M. WeischedelDepartment of Computer and Information SciencesUniversity of DelawareNewark, Delaware 19711i.
In t roduct ionSuppose we call "normat ive" any sys-tem based on a set of  const ra ints  (wheth-er pragmatic ,  semantic,  or syntact ic) .Input that v io lates  the constra ints  of asystem could be termed " i l l - formed".
Son-dhe imer  and Weischede l  (1980) ident i fytwo genera l  c lasses of input appear ingi l l - formed to a normat ive  system.
Inputwil l  be cal ledabso lu te ly  i l l - formed, if nat ivespeakers  genera l ly  agree that itv io lates  one or more l inguist ic  con-straints,  orre lat ive l  Z i l l - formed, if it v io la tessome co n s t r a----~nt--\[~---o f the computa-t ional  system, though nat ive speakersperce ive noth ing odd about it.Examples of  abso lute  i l l - fo rmednessinclude misspe l l ings ,  mistyp ings,mispunctuat ions ,  tense and number errors,word order problems, run-on sentences,sentence fragments, ext raneous  forms, andmeaning less  sentences.
Examples  of rela-t ive ly  i l l - formed input include unknownwords and requests that are beyond thel imits of e i ther  the computer  system orthe natural  language interface.In natura l  language access (e.g.Engl ish access) to in format ion systems,the magn i tude  of the prob lem of abso lutei l l - formedness can be seen in severalcase studies.
If one includes te legraphicand e l l ipt ica l  const ruc t ions  in the classof absolute i l l - formedness,  then cases~udies reported in Thompson (1980) andEastman and McLean (1981) indicate thatas much as 25% of quer ies  to quest ion -answer ing  systems are abso lu te ly  i l l -formed.
On the other  hand, no mat ter  howlarge the d ict ionary ,  grammar,  and under-lying system, there wi l l  a lways be unk-nown words  and phrases  (e.g.
propernames) and imposs ib le  requests  (due touser misconcept ions  of  the capab i l i t i esof  the under ly ing  system).2.
Br ie f  overv iew of the papers  of thissess ionThis sess ion cons ists  of papers  byJensen and Heidorn;  Marsh;  and Granger  etal.
The paper  by Jensen and Heidornpresents  a par t i cu la r  heur i s t i c  fordea l ing  with unparsab le  input.
S incethey have  separate  exp l ic i t  heur i s t i csfor spec i f ic  ungrammat ica l  forms, a s ig-n i f icant  p ropor t ion  of  unparsab le  inputin thei r  system wil l  be re la t ive ly  i l l -formed.
One of the goa ls  of the EPISTLEproject ,  of  wh ich  this is a part, is cr i -t iquing bus iness  letters.Marsh 's  paper  descr ibes  a techniquefor f i l l ing in mater ia l  omi t ted  fromf ragmentary  inputs.
Both syntact ic  in-format ion and domain -spec i f i c  const ra in tson semant ic  c lasses are used.
This ispart of  an ongoing ef fort  in ext ract ing  adata base from free-text  medica l  records,such as narrat ive  d i scharge  summaries.The paper by Granger  et el.
reportson NOMAD, a system for taking cryptic,er ror fu l  naval sh ip - to -shore  messages andgenerat ing  we l l - fo rmed versions.
Thepaper descr ibes  the methods  used for p~o-cess ing unknown words, fragments, miss ingpunctuat ion,  and tense errors.
*This material is based upon work partially sup-ported by the National Science Foundation underGrant No.
IST-8009673.One way to c lass i fy  i l l - fo rmednes3work is by the choices made regard ingseveral  issues.
Each of the fo l lowingsect ions wil l  present  one issue.893.
App l i ca t ion  area and respond ing  toi l l - fo rmednessI l l - fo rmedness  process ing  has beenexamined in many ~pp l i ca t ion  areas,  in-c lud ing  data  base access (Hendrix,  etal., 1978), bu i ld ing  a data base (Marsh,1983), g rammar  check ing  ( Jensen andHeidorn,  1983),.
generat ing  we l l - fo rmedmessages f rom i l l - fo rmed and incompleteones (Granger,  et al, 1983) andin te l l igent  computer -ass i s ted  languageinst ruct ion  (Weiachedel ,  et al, 1978).Proper  response to an i l l - fo rmedinput depends  on the app l i ca t ion  env i ron -ment and the user.
For example,  supposea presuppos i t ion  of  an input is incor rec taccord ing  to the computer  model .
In alanguage ins t ruc t ion  env i ronment ,  thesystem shou ld  cor rec t  the er roneous  in-put, in fo rming  the student  of  the causeof  the error;  th is  makes sense s ince stu-dents are er ror  prone in learn ing  alanguage.
In data  base  access,  the sys-tem might  in form the user  of  the falsepresuppos i t ion  and suggest  a l te rnat ivequer ies  (Kaplan, 1978), s ince the userdoes not usua l ly  benef i t  f rom the emptyset as a response.
On the other  hand, inthe app l i ca t ion  Granger  is invest igat ing ,the system should  check  an assumpt ion  ithas made regard ing  the incomplete  textand try an a l te rnat ive ,  s ince the incon-s i s tency  may stem from an assumpt ion  thesystem made in complet ing  f ragmentaryinput.4.
The role of const ra in tsPerhaps i l l - fo rmedness  should  behandled by s imply  not encod ing  some con-stra ints  in the normat ive  system.
Wal tz(1978) and Schank, et al (1980) havetaken this approach  for a large c lass ofsyntact ic  const ra in ts .
In cer ta in  app l i -cat ions,  one can get by w i th  such anapproach  due to the great  amount of~edundancy  in natura l  language.
However,it c lear ly  wi l l  not work in gener%l ,  s in-ce const ra in ts  genera l ly  car ry  mean ingand tri,n the search space.
All  threepapers of this sess ion cap i ta l i ze  on con-stra ints  (or expectat ions) ,  and proposemechan isms for p rocess ing  i l l - fo rmedness .Given a commitment  to employ  con-stra ints  rather  than ignor ing them, thereat9 sti l l  the fo l lowing des ign issues :a) whether  two separate  systems,perhaps running in para l le l ,  shouldbe bu i l t  for we l l - fo rmedness  and fori l l - fo rmednessb) whether  i l l - fo rmed process ingcan be stated as exp l ic i t  mod i f i ca -t ions ~) we l l - fo rmedness  process ing ,andc) whether  a metr ic  can be use/instead of  employ ing  any spec ia lp rocedures  for i l l - fo rmedness .We ischede l  and Sondhe imer  (1981) arguefor an approach  that exp l i c i t l y  re la tesi l l - fo rmedness  process ing  to the rules ofthe normat ive  sys tem via meta - ru les(rules that operate  on rules) .
A morecomplete  d i scuss ion  of  the a l te rnat ivesappears  there.5.
Cate~or i za t iqn  o f  e l l ips i s ,con junct ion ,  and other  g ray  casesIt is debatab le  whether  cer ta inphenomena shou ld  be c lass i f ied  as we l l -formed or not.
E l l ips is  ( f ragmentaryinput  wh ich  in context  conveys  a completethought)  is an example .
In such cases,the de f in i t ion  of  " i l l - fo rmedness"  interms of a normat ive  system, as wel l  asthe d i s t inc t ion  between abso lu te  andre la t ive  i l l - fo rmedness ,  sheds l ight  onthe issue.
In Marsh 's  system, syntact i cforms for e l l ipses  are exp l i c i t l y  codedin the normat ive  system.
Jensen  andHe idorn  do not inc lude rules for f rag-ments in the grammar,  but  v iew it asre la t ive  i l l - fo rmedness  to be processedby a recovery  strategy.
Granger ,  et ala lso v iew e l l ips i s  as re la t ive ly  i l l -formed.Con junct ion  fo rmat ion  is anotherin teres t ing  case.
Though use of con junc -t ion is c lear ly  g rammat ica l ,  a number  ofind iv idua ls  (Sager, 1973; Woods,  1973;Kwasny  and Sondhe imer ,  1981) have arguedthat it shou ld  not be inc luded in thenormat ive  grammar,  but  rather  shou ld  beprocessed  via a recovery  st rategy.Therefore ,  they have  argued for t reat ingit as re la t ive ly  i l l - formed.I suspect  that ca tegor i z ing  a lmostany par t i cu la r  const ra in t  as normat ivecould  be the bas is  for argument .
Thec r i te r ia  for dec id ing  whether  a con-s t ra int  shou ld  be inc luded in the norma-t ive sys tem inc lude at least the fol-lowing:a) whether  a nat ive speaker  wou ldedit inputs that v io la te  it,b) whether  v io la t ing  the const ra in tcan y ie ld  usefu l  inferences,c) whether  examples  exist  where  theconst ra in t  carr ies  meaning,d) whether  the constra int?
ifc lass i f ied  as normat ive,  t r ims thesearch space, ande) whether  a p rocess ing  s t ra tegyfor the const ra in t  can be statedmore eas i l y  as a mod i f i ca t ion  ofnormat ive  process ing,  as in the caseof con junct ion .906.
Knowled@e sourcesIn processing il l-formedness, thereis usually more than one alternative fordiagnosing the problem and for recover-ing.
Oftentimes there is more than onealternative for what was intended.
Whatkinds of knowledge are brought to bear onthe problem?
Jensen and Heidorn use syn-tactic information and an ordering heu-ristic in their parser.
Marsh uses syn-tactic information and semantics (pri-mari ly selection restrictions).
Grangeret al also employ syntactic and semanticconstraints, but addit ional ly employ"scripts" of stereotypical events in theenvironment of naval ship-to-shore mes-sages.Using more classes of information toinfer what was intended is an open prob-lem~ the kinds of semantic and pragmaticknowledge that could be helpful havebarely been tapped.7.
Controlmuch needed to determine the effec-tiveness and costs of competing stra-tegies.Publishing addit ional col lections ofi l l-formed input is critical.
The pat-terns of behavior evident in suchcollections not only suggest heur ist icsfor i l l -formedness processing but alsoprovide a basis for benchmarks upon whichto base empirical comparisons.One other area needing much researchis models of particular users, theirplans, and goals.
This is important toinfer the intended meaning of an indivi-dual, since many explanations exist.
Forinstance, when no interpretation can befound, spell ing corrections, inferringthe meaning of an unknown word, or relax-ing a syntactic or semantic constraintare all possibi l it ies.
Granger, et al(1983) and Allen, et al (1983) bothreport progress on using pragmatic infor-mation to deal with fragmentary input.The control mechanisms of the norma-tive system (e.g.
bottom-up versus top-down and the point at which semantic con-straints are used) are not of concern tous here.
Rather, what is of interest isa) the point at which ill-formedness strategies are employed,b) the mechanism for identifyingwhat the proble~ is,c) the nature of response, if any,once a specific hypothesis of theproblem is made, andd) the search strategy for selec-ting an intended interpretation.The obvious benefit  of ill-formedness research is more natural,easy-to-use systems.
An addit ional bene-fit is that study of i l l -formednessshould lead to better understanding ofhow normative systems should be designed.ReferencesAllen, James F., Alan M. Frisch, Diane J.Litman, "ARGOT: The Rochester DialogueSystem", Proceedings of the NationalConference on Ar t l f i c~ l  -'~tell~qenc--'~--~e,"(1982), 66-7~.
.
.
.
.
.
.Many alternatives exist for these de-cisions; an overview of them appears inSondheimer and Weischedel (1980).8.
Future directionsAs evident from this session, theprocessing of il l-formed input has becomea very active research topic that is ofcritical importance in a wide variety ofapplications.
Yet, there is much to bedone.
There are many kinds of ill-formedness for which better heuristicsare needed.~nother need is empirical studies.Controll ing the processing of i l l-formedinput is a substantial problem no matterwhat approach one takes, since processingil l-formedness requires relaxing the veryconstraints that trim the search spacefor possible interpretations.
Becausecontrol is such an important issue,thorough, rigorous empirical studies areEastman, C. M. and D. S. McLean, "On theNeed for Parsing I l l -formed ~nput,"American Journal of ComputationalL in~u is t i cs ,~(1981-T ,  2~7.
~ .........Granger, Richard H., Chris J. Staros,Gregory B. Taylor, and  Riku Yoshii,"Scruffy Text Understanding: Design andImplementation of the NOMAD System", thisvolume, 1983.Hendrix, G. G., E. D. Sacerdoti, D. Sa-galowicz and J. Slocum, "Developing aNatural Language Interface to ComplexData", ACM Transactions on DatabaseSzstems, 3, 2, (1978), i05-147-7 .
.
.
.
.Jensen, Karen and George E. Heinorn, "The'Fitted' Parse: 100% Parsing Capabi l i tyin a Syntactic Grammar of English", thisvolume, 1983.Kaplan, S. J., "Indirect Responses t9Loaded Questions," Theoretical Issues inNatural Language Pr6ces6in~i2-~ ~s i~}o---~-~llinois at ~~h'ampa ign ,  July~1978.Kwasny, S. C., and N. K. Sondheimer,"Relaxation Techniques for Parsing Ill-Formed Input", American Journal ofComputat%ona!
Lin~uissics, --77----~981\]~,99-108.Marsh, Elaine, "Util izing Domain-Specif icInformation for Processing Compact Text",this volume, 1983.Sager, Naomi, "The String Parser forScientif ic Literature."
In R.
Rustin,Ed., Natural Language Processing.
NewYork: Algorithmics Press, 1973.Schank, Roger C., Michael Lebowitz, andLawrence Birnbaum0 "An IntegratedUnderstander", American Journal ofComputational Linguistics, ~'-~--~19805~,13-30.Sondheimer, N. K. and R. M. Weischedel,"A Rule-Based Approach to I l l -FormedInput," Proceedings of the E_~h~_~hInternational'Confe'rence--on ComputatlonalLinguisticss-~-T6kyo, October 1980, 46---~4--Thompson, B. H., "Linguistic Analysis ofNatural Language Communication with Com-puters", Proceedings of the Ei_~hthInternational Conference--on Computatlona-\[Linguistics, Tokyo, October, 1980,190-201.Waltz, D. L., "An English Language Ques-tion Answering System for a Large Rela-tional Database", Communications of theACM, 21, 7, (1978), 526-539.Wei~chedel, R.M.
and N. K. Sondheimer, "AFramework for Processing I l l -FormedInput", Dept.
of Computer & InformationSciences, University of Delaware, Newark,DE, 1981.Weischedel, R. M., W. M. Voge, and M.James, "An Artif icial Intell igenceApproach to Language Instruction",Artif icial Intelligence, i0, (1978),225-240.Woods, W. A., "An Experimental ParsingSystem for Transit ion Network Grammars.
"In R. Rustin, Ed., Natur~l LanguageProcessing.
New Yor-k?
~igorlth~-icsPress, 1973.92
