THE SEMSYN GENERATION SYSTEM:INGREDIENTS,  APPL ICAT IONS,  PROSPECTSD ie tmar  RSsnerc /o  P ro jekt  SEMSYNInst i tut  ffir Informat ik,  Univers i t?t  S tut tgar tHerdweg 51, D-7000 Stut tgar t  1, West  Germanye-mail: semsyn@if istg.uucpAbstract:We report about the current status of the SEM-SYN generation system.
This system - initiallyimplemented within a Japanese to German MTproject - has been applied to a variety of gen-eration tasks both within MT and text genera-tion.
We will work out how these applicationsenhanced the system's capacities.
In additionto the paper we will give a demo of both theGerman and a recently implemented Englishversion of the system.1 The starting pointThe SEMSYN project began in 1983 with anMT application as starting point: We had toinvestigate the possibility of using seman-tic structures derived from Japanese as in-put to a generator for German.
The seman-tic structures were produced from Japanesetitles of papers in information technology bythe parser of Fujitsu's ATLAS/I I-system, theGerman generator had to be designed and im-plemented by SEMSYN.
A first prototype waspresented at the end of 1984, further en-hanced versions of this Japanese/German sys-tem were demonstrated at various meetings,e.g.
COLING-86 \[RSsner 86a\].2 Design guidelinesWhen we designed and implemented the initialSEMSYN generator we tried to base this workon guidelines like the following \[Rfsner 86b\]:?
The implemented system should not beconfined by its/ irst application.Since we had only little influence on theformat of the output of our partner'sparser for Japanese we designed a moregeneral frame language that served as in-put to our system.The generator should be easily extensibleand transportable to other applications.This gave strong motivation for choosingan object-oriented implementation tech-nique.The generator should be integrated in anenvironment of  software tools supporting~every day" work (e.g.
testing, debuggi~zg,experimentation) with the system.This led to the implementation of a wholesystem of utilities: e. g. menu-based toolsfor lexicon update and maintenance or aninteractive ditor for semantic structures.3 The basic machineryThe SEMSYN generator is organized into twomajor modules:?
the generator kernel or 'realization com-ponent' and?
the front end generator or 'morpho/-syntactic omponent'.We will have a closer look at the operationof these modules now.3.1 The  generator  kerne lThe generator kernel starts from a semanticrepresentation, i.e.
a 'message' in the sense of\[McDonald et al 87\].
Its task is to 'realize' the25message, i.e.
to decide how its content may beexpressed in natural anguage:?
What is the adequate syntactic form forthe utterance as a whole??
How should the subparts of the conceptualrepresentation be realized and integratedinto the utterance??
What are appropriate lexicalizations - aslexemes or whole phrasal structures of thetarget language - for the elements of themessage?3.2 The  l ingu is t i c  representat ionThe output of the generator kernel is a func-tional grammatical structure.
This linguisticrepresentation fully specifies the intended ut-terance:?
the syntactic ategory of the whole utter-ance and the grammatical functions andsyntactic ategories of all subparts,?
the syntactic features of the head of eachsyntactic entity,?
the lexemes or special lexical items -marked with category information like:*PN for proper names or :*NC for nouncompounds - to be used.3.3 The  f ront  end  generatorThe functional grammatical structures pro-duced by the generator kernel are input to thefront end generator.
This module has to exe-cute all syntactic and morphological processesthat are necessary to produce the correspond-ing surface string.
This involves:?
linearization, i.e.
constituent ordering,?
agreement handling,?
inflection.The need for an explicit linguistic represen-tation of the intended utterance and a sepa-rate final processing step is especially obvi-ous for highly inflectional languages with arich repertoire of agreement phenomena (e.g.French, German).3.4 Examples3.4.1 Frame structures as semantic repre-sentationSEMSYN's generator kernel expects its inputin a frame notation.
Although there are mi-nor variations between the different applica-tions the basic format is fixed: frame struc-tures consisting of a 'semantic symbol' as nameand named roles or slots with - recursively -frame structures as fillers.An example of a case frame:(GENERATE:AGENT (PROJECT :NAME (:*PN SEMSYN)):OBJECT (LANGUAGE :ATTRIBUTES GERMAN))Here the toplevel frame structure containsthe semantic symbol 'GENERATE'  and hastwo filled roles :AGENT and :OBJECT as fur-ther information.3.4.2 A realization resultWhen the generator kernel realizes this caseframe as a clause in active voice this resultsin the following functional grammatical struc-ture:( : CLAUSE(:VERB 'gener ie r '  )(:FEATURES (:VOICE ACTIVE))( : SUBJ(:NG (:HEAD(:*NC (:*PN 'SENSYN I)' - '  ' P ro jek t ' )( : FEATURES(:NUM SG)(:DET DEF)(:CAS NOM))))( :DIROBJ(:NG (:HEAD 'Sprache')(:FEATURES (:HUM SG)(:DET ZERO))(:CLASSIFIER 'deutsch' ))))This yields the following German sentence~:"Das SEMSYN-Projekt generiertdeutsche Sprache.
"(The SEMSYN project generates Ger-man language.
)3.5 Ob jec t -o r iented  imp lementa -t ion  o f  rea l i za t ion  knowledgeThe main features of the object-orientedparadigm that we exploited for the implemen-I English glosses added as convenience for the reader.26tation of realization knowledge in the genera-tor kernel are?
hierarchy as organisation principle for theknowledge base and?
message passing between objects as pri-mary control structure.The specialization hierarchy used is rooted in ageneral class that defines the basic methods forrealization (KBS-Schema).
On the next levelare general classes for?
case frames (CASE-Schema)?
concepts (CONCEPT-Schema)?
relations (RELATION-Schema).These classes differ with respect o the possi-ble realizations of their instances:?
concept-schemata allow only realizationsas noun groups?
case-schemata allow for various clausalforms (active, passive, topicalized) as wellas nominalized forms?
subclasses of relation-schema incorporateknowledge about realization possibilitiesfor (more complex) semantic relations likethe relation between :MEANS and :PUR-POSE, :REASON and :RESULT etc.3.5.1 A relation-schemaThe semantic representation of a summaryof Macbeth may contain the following framestructure:(REASON - FOR: RESULT(MURDER :AGENT MACBETH :OBJECT DUNCAN): REASON(PERSUADE:AGENT (LADY-MACBETH :SPECIALIZE AMBITIOUS):OBJECT MACBETH))One possible way to express this relation isto realize the fillers of :REASON and :RE-SULT as clauses and add the clause from:REASON as a subordinate to that of :RE-SULT:"Macbeth ermordete Duncan, da dieehrgeizige Lady Macbeth Macbethfiberredete"(Macbeth murdered Duncan becausethe ambitious Lady Macbeth per-suaded Macbeth)4 Other applications of thesystemIn the meantime improved and extended ver-sions of the SEMSYN generation system havebeen applied to quite a variety of input struc-tures and generation tasks:?
machine translation applications:- Generation of German from (hand-written) semantic structures pro-posed for use within EUROTRA\[Held, RSsner, Weck 87\]- Generation of German sentences inthe domain of doctor/patient com-munication from semantic structuresproduced from Japanese and En-glish by CMU's Universal Parser\[Tomita, Carbonell 86\]?
Text generation:- SEMTEX: generation of news storiesfrom statistical data \[R5sner 87\]-GEOTEX:  generation of descrip-tive texts for geometric onstructions\[Kehl 86\]Although the basic design of the generator\[R5sner 86b\] proved to be flexible enough andcould remain untouched each of these appli-cations has led to additional features of thewhole system.4.1 MT app l i ca t ions4.1.1 Title translationIn the first application of the system westarted from semantic representations derivedfrom titles of Japanese papers in the field ofinformation technology.
Titles are in mostcases noun groups.
In order to generate Ger-man equivalents we had to provide the proto-type primarily with knowledge about Germannoun group structures.
On the other hand,for many of these semantic structures clausalforms were possible as well.
We therefore pro-vided the system with "stylistic" switches thatallowed the alternative generation of clausesfrom case frames as well.274.1.2 MT for doctor/patient communica-tionThe sample of semantic structures in this ex-periment was taken from doctor/patient com-munication.The semantic structures producedby CMU's parsers for Japanese and Englishare basically case frames, but include syntac-tic information as well (e.g.
about :MOODor :TIME).
The fragment of German gener-able by the SEMSYN system was extended byyes/no-questions and imperatives.An example:English input to CMU's parser:"i have a pain in the throat"Semantic structure as input to SEMSYN:(*HAVE'A'SYHPTOH:HO00 DEC:AGENT (*PATIENT:HUHAN + :PRO 1 :NUHBER SG:PERSON 1):TIHE PRESENT:SYHPTOH (*PAIN:LOCATION(*BOOY-PART :NAHE *THROAT)))German generation:"Ich habe Schmerzen im Rachen.
"4.1.3 EUROTRA-D/SEMSYN experimentIn order to support he EUROTRA-D group,we ran this experiment:A sample of semantic structures asproposed for use within ECIROTRA\[Steiner 86\] should serve as input toour generator.This experiment was interesting under var-ious aspects:?
The semantic representation used is basedon systemic grammar; since the classesused are already hierarchically structuredit was relatively easy to implement themas a FLAVOR hierarchy of realizationclasses.?
The sample of semantic structures waschosen to cover the complete list of Ger-man sentential types from a textbook\[Helbig, Buscha 86\].
In order to be ableto generate all of these surface forms wehad to further enrich the generable frag-ments with e.g.- infinitival complements- genitive objects- subject and object clauses.4.2 Text  generat ion4.2.1 SEMTEX: Generation of news storiesSEMTEX starts from mere labor market data,extract a list of semantic representations fromthem as "text plan" and then converts this listinto texts like the following:"Die Zahl der Arbeitslosen inder Bundesrepublik Deutschland istim Dezember spllrbar angestiegen.Sic hat yon 2210700 auf 2347100zugenommen.
Die Arbeitslosenquotebetrug Ende Dezember 9.4 Prozent.Sic hatte sich Ende Dezember desletzten Jahres auf 9.3 Prozent be-laufen.
Der DGB hat erkllirt, er sehein der Vergriil3erung der Arbeits-losenzahl ein negatives Zeichen.
"The main concern in implementing SEM-TEX has been to provide the SEMSYN gener-ator with mechanisms that keep track of pre-vious generation decisions thus creating a rep-resentation of the textual context built up bythe already uttered sentences.
This context isused:?
to avoid repetition in wording,?
to deliberately elide information still valid(e.g.
about the time period concerned),?
to decide on pronominalisation a d othertypes of reference.In addition a representation f the temporalcontext is used?
to dynamically determine grammaticaltense and?
to produce appropriate natural languagedescriptions for the time units mentioned\[R6sner 86b\].284.2.2 GEOTEX: Verbalizing objects andoperationsIn the GEOTEX application the SEMTEXtext generator is combined with a tool forinteractively creating geometric onstructions\[Kehl 86\].
The latter offers formal commandsfor manipulating (i.e.
creating, naming and -deliberately - deleting) basic objects of Eu-clidean geometry.
The generator is used toproduce descriptive texts related to the geo-metric construction:?
descriptions of the geometric objects in-volved,?
descriptions of the sequence of steps doneduring a construction.Verbalizing the course of a construction:When GEOTEX is describing the course ofa construction in a concise and coherent ext itstarts from the sequence of commands of thegeometry language.
Let us look at an example:(PUN SA 15 10)(PUN $B 20 7)(KRE $K $8 $A)Each of these commands in turn causesGEOTEX?
to update the associated FLAVOR repre-sentation for the domain,?
to display (if possible) the objects on thescreen (in this case: point $A with co-ordinates (15, 10), point $B with coordi-nates (20, 7), circle $K with center $B andthrough $A),?
to create a message from the operation andgive it as input to SEMTEX.SEMTEX renders this information in theorder given.
For the example this resulted inthe following text:"Ich zeichne den Punkt Sa (15/10)ein.
"(I draw point Sa (15/10).
)"Und den Punkt $b (20/7).
"(And point Sb (20/7).
)"Urn ihn schlage ich den Kreis $kdurch $a.
"(Around it I draw Sk through Sa.
)To achieve this result SEMTEX' context-handling mechanisms have been enriched:Elision is no longer restricted to adjuncts.For repetitive operations verb and subjectwill be elided in subsequent sentences (cf.the sentences 1and 2).The distinction between known informa-tion (i.e.
known geometric objects) andnew one (i.e.
new objects created fromknown ones) is exploited to decide onconstituent ordering: the constituent re-ferring to the known object is "topical-ized", i.e.
put in front of the sentence (cf.sentence 3).In addition the system allows for more waysto refer to objects introduced in the text:pronouns, textual deixis using demonstrativepronouns ("dieser Punkt",this point), names.The choice is done deliberately: Pronouns areavoided if their use might create an ambigu-ity; reference by name is used when an objecthas not constantly been in focus and thereforehas to be re-introduced.5 SEMSYN's  So f tware  Envi -ronmentSEMSYN's generation system has been imple-mented on a SYMBOLICS lisp machine.
Dur-ing the implementation we aimed at utilizingas much of the functionality of this machinein order to get optimal support for our work.We have built up an environment of linguis-tic and software tools that, though designedfor our projects purposes, may be - at least inpart - of interest for other projects in MT andCL in general.
25.1 In ter face  too ls :This comprises all software that provides easyand comfortable communication with the sys-tem (even for casual users).SEMSYN's user interface is centered aroundSEMNET-GRAPHICS,  a tool for visualiz-ing semantic nets - the starting point ofthe generation - as mouse-sensitive graph-ics \[R6sner 86b\].
The graphical represen-tation is embedded in an interface "frame"2 These tools are best illustrated by an interactive demo.29\[Weinreb, Moon 81\] whose "panes" are dis-playing various intermediate structures - de-pending on the users chosen "frame configu-ration" - and the generation result.5.2 Experimentation tools:These tools extend the capabilities of the userinterface and are intended to enable and sup-port experiments with the system.SEMNET-EDIT is a tool for experimentingthe generator by interactively editing semanticnets \[Kehl 85\]:?
modification of given semantic nets?
creation of semantic nets from scratch?
generation of German from created ormodified semantic nets and/or their sub-nets.Experimentation tools of this type are not onlyuseful for purposes of debugging and systemimprovement but proved as well to be veryhelpful as comfortable means for introductioninto the system's capabilities and limitations.5 .3  Lex icon  too ls :In every realistic application dictionaries playan important role as body of linguistic knowl-edge; the need for support in maintaining andupdating them seems obvious.SEMSYSTEM uses two types of dictionar-ies: A single German root form dictionary(with morpho/syntactic nformation) for thegenerator front end and so-called "realizationdictionaries", that relate semantic symbols toGerman lexical items (root forms of verbs,nouns, adjectives .
.
.
.  )
and that may vary fordifferent applications of the generator.
Forboth types of lexica there are window- andmenu-based tools for maintenance.6 Prospects :  F rom mono-  tomulti l ingual generation6.1 Teach ing  Eng l i sh  to  the  sys temIn a recent experiment 3 we changed and ex-tended our generator system in such a way that3This work is done in collaboration with Odyssey Re-search Associates, Ithaca, N.Y.- using the same representation for the differ-ent domains - the texts of SEMTEX and GEO-TEX may be produced in English as well.A system produced example text from thenewspaper application:Increase in the number of unem-ployed.NURNBERG/BONN (cpa) DECEM-BER 5,85.
The number of unem-ployed in West Germany has in-creased slightly during November.It has increased from 2148800 by61900 to 2210700.
At the endof November the unemployment ratehad a value of 8.8 percent.
At theend of the year-ago period it hada value of 8.7 percent.
Gerd Muhr,the speaker of the DGB, declares, itsees a bad sign in the increase in thenumber of unemployed.French will be the next target language; wehave started to prepare the morphological andsyntactic data for such an experiment.6 .2  Re la ted  workThere is more recent work in "multilingualgeneration" from data:RAREAS, a system synthesizing weatherforecasts from data provided by meteo-rologists \[Kittredge t al.
86\] is currentlybeing equipped with French as secondtarget language.Kukich's ANA, a system generating En-glish stock market reports from DowJones data \[Kukich 83\], has a secondtongue as well: The generation of Frenchbulletins has been possible by replacingANA's "linguistic module" with a Frenchversion - called FRANA \[Contant 86\] -while leaving ANA's other modules un-touched (i.e.
Fact Generator, MessageGenerator, Discourse Organizer).6 .3  Why mul t i l i ngua l  generat ion?6.3.1 Aspects of application:Generation of natural anguage texts in differ-ent languages (and probably different styles)from the same knowledge base might be an30interesting alternative to human or machinetranslation of these texts.Re-Generation (of e.g.
software manualsor maintenance handbooks) in different lan-guages might be much more economic thanmanually "updating" those texts when the un-derlying knowledge base changes.6.3.2 Aspects of implementation:Multilingual generation enforces the separa-tion of generator knowledge into language de-pendent data and language independent ma-chinery.In order to keep a generator easily portableto other languages the implementor will haveto allow as much declarativity as possible.6.3.3 Aspects of linguistic theory:Work in multilingual generation from seman-tic representations may be seen as an exercisein contrastive linguistics:A central issue for any generator starting fromsemantic structures i the choice of an appro-priate syntactic structure for the expression ofa given meaning structure.What are the differences and correspondenciesbetween the different target languages withrespect o this choice?
(E. g. Focus may beexpressed by constituent order in German, inEnglish you may have to choose a passive.
)Similarly.What are the differences between the tar-get languages with respect to the seman-tic features that are obligatory in order tobe able to produce surface text?
(E.g.In the Japanese/German MT application wewere confronted with the fact that the se-mantic structures derived from Japanese didnot contain semantic information about in/-definiteness or multiplicity.
)ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS:The SEMSYN project is funded by the WestGerman Ministry for Research and Technol-ogy (BMFT).
The project is currently cooper-ating with partners from Japan (University ofKyoto; NTT Basic Research Laboratories) andUSA (International Center for MT at CMU).We have to thank all partners for their support.The SEMSYN system is the joint effort of avariety of people.
Special thanks to M. Emele(Stuttgart) for his work on the front end gen-erator, to W. Kehl (Stuttgart) for his imple-mentation of GEOTEX and the editor for se-mantic nets and to O. Rambow (Ithaca, N.Y.)for our joint experiment to teach English tothe system.A note on implementation and demonstrationThe SEMSYN generator and the applicationsas described in this paper are fully imple-mented and run in ZetaLISP and FLAVORSon SYMBOLICS lisp machines.
We would liketo demonstrate he system at the conference.References\[Contant 86\] Contant, C. "Generation automa-tique de texte: application au sous-language boursier", M.A.
thesis, Dept.
deLinguistique, Univ.
de Montreal, 1986.\[Emele 86\] Emele, M. "FREGE - Entwick-lung und lmplementierung eines objek-torientierten FRont-End-GEnerators fffrdas Deutsche", Diplomarbeit, Institut f frInformatik, Uni Stuttgart, 1986.\[Heid, R6sner, Weck 87\] Heid, U.;RSsner, D.; Weck, B.: 'Das EUROTRA-D/SEMSYN-Experiment: Generierungdeutscher S5tze aus semantischen Repr~i-sentationen', in: Tillmann, H.G.
; Will6e(Hrg.
):"Analyse und Synthese gesproch-ener Sprache", (Hildesheim: Olms), 1987.\[Helbig, Buscha 86\] Helbig, G.; Buscha, J.:"Deutsche Grarnmatik.
Ein Handbuch fh'rden Ausl~nderunterricht", Leipzig, 1986.\[Kehl 85\] Kehl, W.: "Erweiterung dergraphischen Schnittstelle des SEMSYN-Projekts", Studienarbeit, Insitut ffir In-formatik, Univ.
Stuttgart, 1985.\[Kehl 86\] Kehl, W.:"GEOTEX - Ein Systemzur Verbalisierung geometrischer Kon-struktionen', Diplomarbeit, Institut fiJrInformatik, Univ.
Stuttgart, 1986.\[Kempen 87\] Kempen, G.
(Ed.
): "Naturallanguage generation: New results in Ar-tificial Intelligence, Psychology and Lin-guistics", Kluwer Academic Publishers,Dordrecht/Boston, 1987.31\[Kittredge etal.
86\] Kittredge,R., A. Polguere, E. Goldberg: " Syn-thesizing Weather Forecasts from format-ted Data", in: COLING-86, Proceedings,Bonn, August 1986.\[Kukich 83\] Kukich, K. "Design and Imple-mentation of a Knowledge-Based ReportGenerator", ACL Annual Meeting, Pro-ceedings, 1983.\[McDonald 83\] McDonald, D.D.
"Natural Language Generation as a Com-putational Problem: an introduction", in:Brady & Berwick (eds.)
"ComputationalModels of Discourse", MIT Press, 1983.\[McDonald et al 87\] McDonald,D.D.,J.D.
Pustejovsky, M.M.
Vaughan "Fac-tors contributing to efficiency in naturallanguage generation", in: \[Kempen 87\]\[R6sner 86a\] RSsner, D.:~Vhen Mariko talksto Siegfried - Experiences froma Japanese~German Machine TranslationProject", in: COLING-86, Proceedings,Bonn, August 1986.\[RSsner 86b\] RSsner, D.: "Ein System zurGenerierung yon deutschen Texten aussemantischen Reprdsentationen", Disser-tation, Institut f. Informatik, Univ.Stuttgart, 1986.\[RSsner 87\] R6sner, D.: "The automated newsagency: the SEMTE,Y text generator forGerman", in: \[Kempen 87\]\[Steiner 86\] Steiner, E.: "Generating Se-mantic Structures in EUROTRA-D' ,  in:COLING-86, Proceedings, Bonn, August1986.\[Tomita, Carbonell 86\] Tomita, M. &J. Carbonell: "Another Stride TowardsKnowledge-Based Machine Translation",in: COLING-86, Proceedings, Bonn,August 1986.\[Weinreb, Moon 81 \] Weinreb, D. & Moon, D.:"LISP machine manual, MIT, 1981.32
