DICTIONARY TEXT ENTRIES AS A SOURCE OF KNOWLEDGEFOR SYNTACTIC AND OTHER DISAMBIGUATIONSKaren Jensen and Jean-Louis BinoOIBM Thomas J. Watson Research CenterP.O.
Box 704Yorktown Heights, New York 10598AbstractOnline reference books may be thought of asknowledge bases.
We describe here how infor-mation in the text of machine-readable dictionaryentries can be processed to help determine theproper attachment of prepositional phrases andrelative clauses; the resolution of some cases ofpronoun reference; and the interpretation ofdangling modifiers.
This approach also suggeststhe possibility of bypassing conventional effortsat hand-coding semantic information, effortswhich ate time-consuming and usually incom-plete.0.
INTRODUCrIONOnline reference books may be thought of asknowledge bases, with data structures encoded innatural anguage.
We have developed a systemthat reasons heuristically about the comparativelikelihood of various potential attachments forprepositional phrases in English sentences byanalyzing relevant definitions in Webster's onlinedictionary (W7) in their original text form (Binotand Jensen 1987, Jensen and Binot forthcoming).This paper reviews that earlier work and thenextends it by suggesting how additional informa-tion (particularly example .,entences from an-other dictionary, the Longman Dictionary ofContemporary English (I,DOCE)) might be usedto cope with throe additional problems: the at-tachment of relative clauses, the resolution ofsome cases of pronoun reference, and the inter-pretation of dangling modifiers.
The earlier workon PP attachments has been implemented, butwe have only begun work on the implementationof these additional disambiguation problems.Nevertheless, it seems like a good idea to indicatethat this dictionary-based approach should befeasible for mora than PP attachments.Our objective is to consult he dictionary tofind the kind of information that has previouslybeen supplied by means of scripts, frames, tem-plates, and other hand-crafted devices.
This ap-proach offers hope for reducing time-consuming,and usually incomplete, hand-codings of seman-tic information: and it should be of particularinterest for non-restricted text processing appli-cations such as machine translation and critiqu-ing.We are concerned here with emulating, insome sense, the way a person uses a dictionary:look up one entry, study the defmitions and theexamples, look up other entries, and so on.
Wefeel that natural anguage itself can be a reason-able knowledge representation language.
Moreneeds to be learned about how to access andmanipulate this knowledge; but the flexibilityafforded by natural anguage is an advantage forthe task, not a drawback.This research is related to other work beingdone with machine-readable dictionaries, e.g.Markowitz et al 1986, in the sense that we allshare the goal of automatically extracting se-mantic information from these rich sources.l lowever, in other respects our approaches arequite different.I.
A'VI'ACIIMENT OF PREPOSITIONALPIIRASF^~;The relationships in which we am interested canbe illustraled by the following sentences fromBinot Iq85:(!)
I ate a fish with a fork.
(2) l ate a fish with bones.
(See Appendix A, Tree I.)
In both cases, theambiguity resides in tile placement of the "with"prepositional phrase, which might modify either"fish" or "ate'.
The parse tree shows the PP at-tached to the closest possible head, "fish," with aquestion mark showing that it could alternativelybe attached to the verb "ate ~.!
The second author currently works for B.I.M., Belgium.152Focussing on (1), another way to phrase thekey question is "Is it more likely that a fork isassociated with a fish or with an act of eating?
"To answer that question, the system evaluatesseparately the plausibility of the two proposedconstructs:(la) eat with a fork(lb) a fish with a forkthen orders the solutions, and picks the one withthe highest rating.In the heuristics we are currently using, thebasic way to rate the likelihood of a construct isto try to establish, through the dictionary, somerelevant semantic onnection between the wordsof that construct.
Easier (or shorter) connectionsyield better atings.
Long connections, or con-nections making use of approximate inferences,will lead to lower ratings.
For example, the de-finition of "fork" contains the phrase "used fortaking up," and "eating" is defined as a kind of"taking" in the dictionary.
By establishing theserelationships, we see a plausible semantic con-nection between "fork" and "eat," and (la) re-ceives a high rating.The relationships are established (aS by iden-tifying equivalent function-word patterns in thedefinitions, such as the equivalence of "used for"and the instrumental "with'; (b) by linking im-portant definition words (i.e., central terms indefinitional phrases, such as heads of phrases, orelse synonyms).
This is done by parsing the de-fruitions, identifying the central word(s), and thenfollowing hierarchical chains of definitionsthrough the dictionary.Heuristic answers are expressed in terms ofcertainty factors which, as in the MYCIN system(Shortliffe 1976), take their values in the range(-1,+ 15: "-I" expresses absolute disbelief; "0"expresses complete uncertainty; "1" expresses ab-solute befief.
Intermediate values express varyingdegrees of belief or disbelief.The two main heuristics that are used toevaluate the plausability of (la) against (Ib) canbe described in English as follows:HI- for checking for an INSTRUMENT relationbetween a head and a "with" complement:I. if the head is not a verb, the relationdoesn't hold (certainty factor = -15;2. if some "instrument pattern" (see be-low) exists in the dictionary def'mitionof the complement, and if this patternpoints to a defining term that can belinked with the head, then the relationprobably holds (certainty factor = 0.7);3. else assume that there is more chancethat the relation doesn't hold (certaintyfactor = -0.35.checking for a PARTOF relation be-tween a head and a "with" complement:I. if the head is not a noun, the relationdoesn't hold (certainty factor = - 15;2. if some "part-of pattern" (see below)exists in the dictionary definition of thecomplement, and if this pattern pointsto a defining term that can be linkedwith the head, then the PARTOF re-lation probably holds (certainty factor= 0.7);3. else assume that there is more chancethat the relation doesn't hold (certaintyfactor = -0.35.H2- forEach certainty factor refers to the specificproposition (or goal) to which the heuristic isapplied.
Thus, if clause 3 of heuristic 112 is usedwhen applied to the proposition (lb), the result-ing certainty factor -0.3 will indicate a relativelymoderate disbelief in this proposition, stemmingfrom the fact that the system has not been ableto find any positive evidence in the dictionary tosustain it.The above heuristics make use of the fact thatthere are specific words and/or phrases in dic-tionary definitions, forming patterrt~, which arealmost systematically used to express pecific se-mantic relations (Markowitz et ai.
19865.
For thetwo relations considered here, some of these pat-terns  are:INS'I'RUMI:.NT: for, used for, used to, ameans for, etc.PARTOF: part of, arises from, end of,member of, etc.These patterns generally take, as their objects,some cen',rai term (or terms) in the definition ofthe complement word.
We can then try to linkthat term with the head of the construct hat isbeing studied.Focussing again on example sentence (15, thesyslem starts by examining the first construct,153(la).
It parses the definition of the complement"fork," and discovers at least one INSTRU-MENT pattern, "used for':fork: An implement with two or more pron~used esp for taking up (as in eating),pitching or digging.Taking the conjunction into account, thesystem finds three possible terms: "taking up,""pitching," and "digging," which it tries to linkwith "eat."
(For the present, we deliberatelyavoid the phrase "as in eating" -- which offers adirect match -- in order to show that our ap-proach does not rely on such lucky coincidences.
)The system is able to establish that "eat" is a di-rect hyponym of "take" according to W7:eat: to take in through the mouth as food...to take food or a meal.The link is thus probably established, and thesystem moves on to consider (lb).
Since noPARTOF pattern can be found in the definitionsof "fork," this second possible construct will beranked as much less likely -- (la) receives a cer-tainty factor of +0.7, but (Ib) gets a certaintyfactor of only -0.3.
Therefore the system recom-mends attaching the PP to the main verb in (!
).For sentence (2), the constructs to be com-pared are "eat with bones" and "a fish withbones."
In the definition of "bone," no usefulINSTRUMENT pattern is found; so "eat withbones" cannot be easily validated.
But the firstdefinition of "bone" gives the followingPARTOF pattern:bone: One of the hard parts of the skeleton of avertebrate.This yields two possible links for "fish':%keleton" and "vertebrate."
"Fish" can be iden-tiffed as a direct hyponym of "vertebrate" ac-cording to W7.fish: Any of numerous cold-blooded strictlyaquatic raniate vertebrates...Therefore, "a fish with bones" receives a highercertainty factor than "eat with bones," and thesystem recommends attaching the prepositionalphrase to the direct object in sentence (2).The above examples are among the simplest.In more difficult cases, heuristics may performvarious kinds of inferences in order to establishconnections.
It is also possible for severalheuristics to be applied to a given construct, withtheir results then being combined.
The cumula-tive effect of many heuristics, and not the per-fection of each one separately, does the job.The choice of certainty factors rests mainlyon intuition.
Some choices are easy; some infer-ences, for example, are obviously weaker thanothers.
In other cases the values have to be ad-justed by trial and error, by processing many ex-amples.
It is interesting to note that, as ourcorpus of examples increa~s, the certainty fac-tors are converging toward apparently stable val-ues.
Our system currently includes about 20heuristic rules and is able to handle the prep-ositions "with," "by," "after," and "in."
It hasbeen tested successfully on about 50 examples sofar.2.
ATFACItMENT OF RELATIVE CLAUSESA typical problem in attaching relative clausesoccurs when the clause is separated from thenoun it modifies by a prepositional phrase:(3) I want the book by my uncle that is on theshelf.In (3), the relative clause "that is on the shelf"probably modiffcs "book" and not "uncle."
Ahuman reader assumes this because of knowingthat a book is more likely to be on a shelf thanan uncle is.
I Iowcver, syntax alone cannot tellus so.
A syntactic parser will normally producea trec which shows the relative clau~ modifyingthe closest noun, namely "uncle.
~ (See AppendixA, Tree 2.)
Note that the parser attaches therelative clause (RELCI.)
node arbitrarily to theclosest head noun "uncle," but marks the otherpossible attachment site ("book ~) with a questionmark.
The higher question mark in Tree 2 is forthe PP attachment.The grammar that supports all ol" the parsing discussed here is the PI.NLP ~nglish Grammar (Jensen in preparation,Heidorn 1976).154We have implemented the solution to thiskind of relative clause ambiguity.
Our systemstarts by trying to solve the PP attachmentproblem: does "by my uncle" modify "book" or"want'?.
Of all possible relationships between thevarious word pain, the AUTHOR relationshipbetween "book" and "uncle" will receive by farthe best ranking.
This will happen because it canbe established, by using the dictionary, that anuncle can be a human being (and thus able toauthor a work), and that a book is some kind ofwork .The processing of the RELCL attachmentthen begins.
Syntax tells us that the relativepronoun "that" is the subject of the predicate "beon the shelf."
One of the properties of the verb"to be" is that a prepositional complement qual-ifying this verb really qualifies the subject of theverb.
Applied to Tree 2 of Appendix A, this "provides two possible interpretations:book on the shelfuncle on the shelfAt this point we can ~ that the relative clauseattachment in Tree 2 reduces to a prepositionalphrase attachment, which can be solved easily bythe PP attachment methods already described.Specifically, the dictionary defudtion for "shelf"will tell us that a shelf is "to hold objects" or "forplacing things on," and the word "book" can berelated to "object" or "thing" much more easilythan the word "uncle" can be so related.
Thiswill lead to the preference for -book" as theantecedent of the relative clause.However, most relative clause attachmentproblems cannot be reduced to PP attachments.Consider (4):(4) l know the actor in the movie that you metlast month.The parse tree for this sentence (Tree 3 of Ap-pendix A) shows question marks in the samepositions as Tree 2. floweret, because of thesyntactic structure of the RELCL in (4), weknow that the relative pronoun this time refer~to the obiect.
~ its main verb "met."
Either"movie" or "actdr" must be the object of "met.
"No prepositional phrase is involved.Now we have to decide which is more likely:You met an actor.You met a movie.Although semantic codes are included in the on-line version of LDOCE (i.e., features like HU-MAN and ABSTRACT are marked on nouns,and subcategoriz~ation codes using these featuresare marked on verbs), the codes do not help withproblems like this one.
According to theLDOCE codes, possible objects for the simpletransitive verb "meet," in its various sub-senses,are IIUMAN, ABSTRACT, and (moveable)SOLID.
No ranking of likelihood or preferenceis given, and of course a syntactic parser wouldnot know which sub-sense it is dealing with.
"Actor" is marked + tlUMAN, and "movie" ismarked + ABSTRACT.
So either object nounis equally likely (Mary Neff, personal communi-cation).Although we have not yet implemented this,we believe that the same "approximate r asoning"that we implemented for PP-attachments willwork here, too.
The strategy is to formulateheuristics that yield "certainty factors," not cate-gorial acceptance or rejection of an interpreta-tion.
These heuristics would propose a solutionfor the stated task by operating on the output ofthe syntactic parser.
For the current example,the first step would be to parse the LDOCE entryfor "meet" (shown in Figure I), looking for directobjects.meet '  /mi:t/ p met /mat/ 1 \[TI.IO!
to ~m8tol leth~ (with), by chancal o?
an lapmeut :  /dr#/or ~mm~Jt_...mtt h/mm the str,~ --coml~WITH Z \[TI J to find o?
ezponm1~; ~ In: I met a lot o f  d i f f~dtwj  m the m~k 3 \[ !
J\] tocome together or clme: The cars a/man mn( --oBe front aSainslt me o01~), bwr dtt, wawayanddea~aw 4 \[TI  .il)\] to |et to kJ~OW or I~inttodu?lxl (to) foe the first time: Come to thepm.tyand m~.t ~ mtc~rxtmg pcop@.j We mat at Anm'lpy.n.y, a '~t  w .
~q.
i don't r , ,mm~ ~ ,~ |\[lllJ to ,,ola at a rasltentn 8 point: .W~ skirt ~ ' tmeet round m y mtdd/G ?
{\[OI to gather tolether:77tewholtschooimeytoheardjespeeck 7 \[TL;I#IIatouciL (at  if) aetutafly: Them" li~z mtt  (at a km).lHer#~tdraM,qi l f~"emavio lomMow 811"1 (mal)Jto amtwer, etp.
i-  oppomtion: Hit cha~eJ wertraaw,k cr~, of a.
'~er.lAnlrry cry# mtt kU xpceck O\[TI  \] to be them at the zmvsi of: r l l  ~ .vow o\[/the tmm.lThe tart wdl n~tt the teamtwdl ~ youoff" the team 10 \[TI\] to pay: Can you ~ 0m~ ?
11 \ [T I \ ]  to sattdy: Does this meet mrtmpes?lThit nm~ road meets a Ionf./elt need 12.
.k .
,.,a.
m~t to u,,' one's (small amount o(1mon?~ caR(lilly 50 a to all'oN Whlll nile flesh;Is 13mee?
tmntmto's eye also look ~ Im dm eye--to look dill~tly or Steadily &t 5omeone 14( lalto ~me~lBmlD ~ meetl Ule eye h,dden fa~u arreas~ms (in oe foe somcthm8) ~ a.tso miniI.Od..rWAyFigure I.
Text of LDOCE entry for the verb"meet"155The sub-definitions are no help, because no ob-jects are shown.
But the example sentences inthe entry are a rich source of information abouttypical usage.
There are eleven different exampleobject nouns: him, lot (of difficulties), people,face, speech, you (twice), train, amount, hopes,need.
Over a third of them can be easily relatedto the word "actor': the word "people," and thethree occurrences of personal pronouns.
(Thegeneral rule here is that any personal pronounexcept "it" can be substituted for any word thathas "person" as the head of one of its def'mitions.
)None of them can be so easily related to the word"movie.
* Thus the system concludes that "actor"is a more likely object of the verb "meet" than is"movie."
This conclusion is no accident;lexicographers are experts on words, and theyhave incorporated their expertise, in ways bothobvious and subtle, into standard ictionaries.Mother  interesting example of the relativeclause attachment problem is found in the fol-lowing sentence from a large data base of busi-ness letters:(5) There are no agencies within the countrywhich would loan money to individuals for es-tablishment of boarding homes.The choice here is between possible nouns toserve as the subject of the predicate "would loanmoney':Agencies would loan money.Country Would loan money.First, the LDOCE definition for "loan" refersus to the word "lend."
Moving to the entry for"lend," we look for cited subiects.
The examplesentences, in this case, are no help: subject wordsarc either personal pronouns or the word "flags";and none of these helps us to choose between"agencies" and "country."
But one of the sub-definitions of "lend" is"to give out (money) for profit, esp.
as abusiness'.The phrase "as ?a" is often used in definitions tosignal the AGENT that does the action.
Thenwe consult the dictionary to see which betterqualifies as a "business': "agency" or "country.
"The answer comes easily; the first sub-definitionof "agency" is"a bzL~iness that makes its money esp...".The two words "country" and "business" cannotbe connected so easily as "agency" and "business"along any path of heuristic searching.
Thereforewe prefer to attach the relative clause to "agen-cies" rather than to "country.
"It is important to realize that none of the in-formation being cited here is manually coded;the English text of the LDOCE entries is beingused.
Our strategy can be considered to bemaking explicit a semantic network that existsimplicitly in this text.
The entry for -lend" shows"business" as an AGENT of "lending'; the entryfor "agency" shows that "agency" is a kind of(ISA) "business."
This implicit chunk of networkis shown in Figure 2:Figure 2.
A semantic path connecting lend" and"agency" in LDOCE3.
RESOLUTION OF PRONOUN REFER-ENCEProblems of pronoun reference are many andvaried, and not all of them will yield to this samemethod of solution (llobbs 1986, Sidner 1986).But for some, the information in dictionary defi-nitions can give important clues.
Consider (6)and (7):(6) We bought he boys apples because they werehungry.
(7) We bought he boys apples because they werecheap.In the absence of other information, humanreaders assume that "they" probably refers to theboys in (6) and to the apples in (7).
The com-puter needs to follow some inference path thatwill lead to the same tentative assumptions.156For sentence (6), we need to choose a mostlikely subject noun for the predicate "be hungry"-- either:Boys were hungry.Apples were hungry.We would first parse the dictionary defmition for?
hungry."
In LDOCE, there are two examplesentences with personal pronouns for subjects;the word "boys" can be quickly related to allpersonal pronouns.
There are no example sen-tences with subjects that can be easily related to"apples.
"Additional support can be found in two di-rections.
The first definition for "hungry" inLDOCE is "feeling or showing hunger."
Wewant to find out what sort of entity can "behungry," so we ask what sort of entity can "feel.
"Of about 30 example sentences for the verb"feel," 26 are personal pronouns (excluding "it').Hence we prefer "boys" to "apples" as the subjectof "be hungry.
"A second direction of search also reinforcesthis interpretation.
"Hungry" is defined as "feel-ing or showing hunger," and "hunger" is definedas "the wish or need for food."
Briefly summa-rized, we conclude that "food" is the object (orgoal) of hunger, hence of being hungry.
LDOCEalso tells us that an "apple" is "a hard round fruit"and "fruit" is "used for food."
ttence apples are(used for) food; hence apples can be the objectof q~'ing hungry."
Since the mggested object of"being hungry" is the same as the object of themain clause (see (6)), it stands to reason that"they" probably does no( also refer to "apples.
"The paths that we are tracing are delicate, butthey exist.
A computer program that followsthese paths extracts, from existing text, some veryinteresting real-world relationships.In solving the pronoun reference task of sen-tence (7), the program must choose between:Boys were cheap.Apples were cheap.By following paths through the LDOCE entries,the conclusion that "apples were cheap* appearsmore likely than that "boys were cheap" (al-though the latter is certainly possible).1574.
INTERPRETATION OF DANGLINGMODIFIERSEnglish teachers have long objected to a po-tential awkwardness and lack of clarity in con-structions with dangling modifiers:(8) (While) watching TV, the doorbell rang.In .sentences like (8), the attachment problemappears in a different guise.
There is only onenoun given for the participial to modify, and thatis "doorbell."
It is not possible to set up an ob-vious choice pair in the same manner as before.However, we do know that participial modifiersare a notorious ource of confusion.
So we cancheck the dictionary to find out how likely it isthat a doorbell might watch "IV.In LDOCE, the sub-definitions for "watch"are no help.
But the example sentences, onceagain, offer strong hints.
There are 16 such ex-amples.
Fifteen of them have personal pronounsas subjects for the verb "watch."
The first ex-ample is "Do you often watch TV?"
(This situ-ation was not contrived; sentence (6) was takenfrom a popular high school English grammarbook, Warriner 1963, before the dictionary wasconsulted.)
With this information in hand, wecan say that "doorbell" is, at best, an unlikelysubject for the verb "watch."5.
CONCI.USIONSThere are many important sources of infor-mation for natural anguage processing.
Syntax,logical form, intersentential context, andpresuppositions about the mental state of thespeaker and of the intended audience (to name afew) all make their cortributions, and have allbeen discussed, to varying extents, in the litera-ture.
Now it appears that the text portions ofonline dictionary entries can serve as a richsource of semantic information and worldknowledge that can aid during the processing ofother text.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSWe would like to thank George Heidom forhis helpful suggestions in the preparation of thispaper, and Yael Ravin for her continuing insightsinto problems of ambiguity.REFERENCESBinot, Jean-Louis.
1985.
SABA: vers un systemeportable d' analyse du francais ecriL Ph.D. disser-tation, University of Liege, Liege, Belgium.Binot, Jean-Louis and Karen Jensen.
1987.
"Asemantic expert using an online standard ic-tionary."
Proceedings oflJCAI-87, Milan, Italy,August 1987.Heidorn, George E. 1975.
"Augmented phrasestructure grammars" in Nash-Webber andSchank, eds., Theoretical Issues in Natural Lan-guage Processing.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Hobbs, Jerry R. 1986.
"Resolving Pronoun Ref-erence" in Grosz et al, eds., Readings in NaturalLanguage Processing.
Morgan Kaufmann Pub-fishers, Inc., Los Altos, CA.Jensen, Karen.
In preparation.
"PEG: A broad-coverage computational syntax of Engiish."
IBMResearch Report.Jensen, Karen and Jean-l~uis Binot.
forthcom-ing.
"Disambiguating prepositional phrase at-tachrncnts by using on-line dictionarydefinitions."
Computational Linguistics, specialissue on the lexicon.Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English.1978o Longman Group Ltd., England.Markowitz, Judith, Thomas Ahlswede, andMartha Evens.
1986.
"Semantically significantpatterns in dictionary definitions."
Proceedingsof the 24th Annual Meeting of the A CL,Columbia University, June 1986.Shortliffe, E.II.
1976.
Computer-based medicalconsultation: MYCIN.
Artificial Intelligence Se-ries.
Elsevier.Sidner, Candace L. 1986.
"Focusing in theComprehension f Definite Anaphora" in Groszet al, eds., Readings in Natural Language Proc-essing.
Morgan 'Kaufmann Publishers, Inc., LosAltos, CA.Warriner, John E. 1963.
English Grammar andComposition: Complete Course.
Harcourt, Brace& World, Inc., New York.Webster's Seventh New Collegiate Dictionary.1963.
G. & C. Merriam Co., Springfield, Mass.158Appendix A. Parse TreesDECL PRON*VERB* "ate"DETNOUN*?
PPPUNC "?
"i l i i l  .
i l i  t t l i l l i l  I I I i i  I i l i .
I I l l  I i I l i' t i l tADJ'* "a""fish"PREP "with"DET ADJ*NOUN* "fork"t ta t 'Tree I. Parse tree for a syntactically ambiguous PP attachmentDECL NPVERB*NPPUNC' t i "  PRON*ttwant"DETNOUN*PPI t  t,ADJ*"book"PREPDETNOUN*~LCL"the""by"ADJ'*"uncle"NPVERB*PP"my"PRON* "that"'tlSt'PREP "on"DET ADJ*NOUN* "shelf""the"Tree 2.
Syntactic parse showing rclativc clause attachmentDECL NPVERB*NPI I I i I I I  I I t  l l i l l l i l l l i l l  l l i ~  l i i l  I I t I t l  I i i I i I i t  i I i I I i l  I t t I I I  I Itt i t '  PRON*"know"DETNOUN*PPtt tt P~CADJ*"actor"PREPDETNOUN*RELCL"the""in"ADJ* "the""movie"NP PRON* "that"NP PRON* "you"VERB* "met"NP AJP ADJ*NOUN* "month""last"Tree 3.
Another elative clause attachment159
