A TOO1.
FOR INVESTIGATING TIlE SYNONYMY RELATIONIN A SENSE DISAMBIGUATED THESAURUSMartin S. ChodorowIBM T.J. Watson Research CenterYorktown Heights, New York 10598andDepartment of Psychology, Hunter College of CUNYNew York, New York 10021Yael RavinIBM T.J. Watson Research CenterYorktown Heights, New York 10598ltoward E. SacharIBM Data Systems DivisionWhite Plains, New York 10601AbstractThis paper describes an exploration of theimplicit synonymy relationship expressed bysynonym lists in an on-line thesaurus.
A seriesof automatic steps was taken to properly con-strain this relationship.
The resulting roupingsof semantically related word senses are believedto constitute a useful tool for natural languageprocessing and for work in lexicography.IntroductionThe importance of semantic processing ofnatural language i:, generally acknowledged(Grishman 1986) and needs no justification.Work on applications such as information re-trieval or machine translation has consistentlyfocused on semantic analysis.
A wide range ofmodels has been suggested, based on semanticnetworks, on fuzzy logic, on conceptual de-pendencies and more.
Common to all thesemodels, however, is the researchers' relianceon hand-built semantic databases.
These da-tabases tend to be rather limited in scope andoften restricted to narrow domains.
If theprocess of constructing them remains manual,broad-coverage s mantic analysis by comput-ers will be severely handicapped for quite along time.
It is our goal, therefore, to exploreautomatic and semi-automatic ways of con-structing these semantic databases, through themanipulation of machine-readable s manticsources.
In this paper, we concentrate onheuristics for the automatic manipulation ofsynonyms found in an on-line thesaurus.First, we should clarify what we mean by"synonyms".
The definition of synonymy andthe existence of synonyms have long been de-bated in linguistics.
Some believe it is impos-sible to capture meaning, not even of the mostconcrete terms in natural anguage.
Conse-quently, it is impossible to define synonymyor to identify synonymous terms (Quine 1960).Others believe it is possible to give full seman-tic representations of meaning and therefore todefine synonymy formally and to identify truesynonyms (Katz and Fodor 1963).
Accordingto this view, synonymy is a relationship ofsameness of meaning between words, which isdefined as the identity of their semantic rep-resentations.We have chosen an operational approachto synonymy: The synonyms of a headword ware whatever words are listed in the entry forw in an on-line version of The New CollinsThesaurus (1984) (C'I').
l According to the au-thors, "...no synonym is entered unless it isfully substitutable for the headword in a sensi-We have stored CT as a DAM file (Byrd, et al, 1986) with 16,794 keyed records containing a total of 287,136 syn-onym tokens.
It has been supplemented with part-of-speech information from the UDICT computerized lexiconsystem (Byrd, 1986).144ble English sentence" (Collins 1984:v).
Thismay suggest hat each entry (i.e., a headwordand its synonym list) contains all and onlywords that are closely related semantically.
Butthe same synonyms appear in several lists, andheadwords are themselves ynonyms of otherheadwords, so that the lists in CT are implic-itly interconnected.
We seek algorithms toprocess all the words that are interconnectedin the thesaurus into sets which share crucialsemantic features.In the first section of this paper, we char-acterize the properties of the CT intercon-nections that we discovered in ourmanipulation of the CT links.
Because of theasymmetric and intransitive nature of theselinks, our main difficulty has been to deviseproper means of control to keep the computedsets of words closely related in meaning.
In thesecond section, we describe our first controlmeasure - our manipulation of senses of wordsrather than of words themselves.
In the thirdsection, we describe automatic ways of pruningthe semantic trees we obtain.
In the final sec-tion, we illustrate how this work can benefitvarious natural language applications by pro-viding automatic access to semantically relatedword senses and an automatic means formeasuring semantic distance.Properties o f  CT-synonymsIn the context of CT, a strong criterion fordefining a set of words which share crucial se-mantic features is a criterion which requiresevery member of the set to be a synonym ofevery other member.
The words in such a setwould exhibit symmetric and transitive links.There are 27 sets of words in CT which aresymmetric and transitive.
Within the contextof the thesaurus, these may be considered tohave identical meaning.
26 out of the 27 areword pairs - the 27th is a triple - and all havea single sense and a unique part of speech.
2These sets are given below.allocate = allotaphorism = apothegmastonishing = astoundingat times = from time to time- -  7"  bystander = eyewitnesscemetery = necropoliscongratulate = felicitateeatable = edibleentomb = intereverybody = everyoneexactitude = exactnessgreetings = regardsinsomnia = sleeplessnesslozenge = pastillemyopic = near-sightednaught = noughtperk = perquisitepermeable = porouspiddling = pifflingpodium = rostrumprizefighter = pugilistprizefighting = pugilismsaw = sayingslattern = sluttesty = tetchytriad = trinity = trioweal = weltMost of the synonymy links in CT are mark-edly different from these.
62% are asymmetric(e.g., part has department as a synonym, butdepartment does not have part); and 65% arenon-transitive (e.g., part has piece as a syno-nym; piece has chunk as a synonym; but partdoes not have chunk as a synonym)) Thisasymmetry and non-transitivity have beennoted by others (Dewdney 1987).
Thus, in or-der to obtain semantic sets for most of thewords in the thesaurus, symmetry and transi-tivity are too strict.
An algorithm which per-mits asymmctric and non-transitive links mustbe developed.
(See Warnesson 1985 for a dif-ferent approach.
)According to the substitutability definitionof synonymy adopted by Collins, links shouldalways be symmetric since if it is possible tosubstitute b for a in a "sensible" English con-text, then it is always possible to reintroduce a2 It should be noted that CT's vocabulary is limited.
Thus, it does not contain the verb "perk" or the noun "saw" asan instrument of cutting.
The list of transitive and symmetric sets will vary with the size of the on-line source.3 The percentage of non-transitive links does not include synonyms which have no entries in CT (see footnote 4,); nordoes it include synonyms which could not be disambiguated (see the section on sense disambiguation).
Thus 65% isa conservative estimate.145into that context as a substitution for b. Nev-ertheless, we have found at least five differentsources of asymmetry.
23% of the totalCT-synonyms are either phrases or rare andcolloquial words, which do not appear as mainentries in the thesaurus, uch as dwelling place(a synonym of abode) and digs (a synonym ofquarters).
* About 68% 5 of the remainingasymmetries appear to be mere oversights onthe part of the lexicographers.
For example,assembly has throng listed as a synonym of oneof its senses, but throng does not list assemblyas a synonym, although it does giveassemblage, congregation, multitude, and otherrelated words.
Many of these omissions eemto be due to the fact that rare, very formal ormetaphoric words tend not to be offered assynonyms.
This may explain why conversant,familiar and informed, for example, are listedas synonyms of cognizant, while cognizant isnot listed as their synonym.
18% are instancesof hypernymy (the superordinate relation).For example, book lists manual as a synonym,but manual does not list book; instead specialtypes of books such as handbook are given.This is because book is really a hypernym (nota synonym) of manual.
I lypemym links aretruly asymmetric n nature.words whose entries list house as a synonym,produces a grouping containing 89% of all thenouns in CT. Obviously, with such a largenumber of words, it is not surprising that mostbear little semantic relation to the root node.The computational tool we have used forcomputing the transitive closure oversynonymy is a program known as SPROUT.It was originally used (Chodorow, et al, 1985)to generate taxonomic trees from the hyponymrelation as extracted from Webster's SeventhCollegiate Dictionary (Merriam 1963).SPROUT starts with a root node and retrievesfrom a designated file (in this case, a DAM fde)the words that bear the given relation to theroot.
These words are the ftrst-leveldescendents (daughters) of the root.
SPROUTthen applies recursively to each of the daughternodes, generating their daughters, etc.
In thisway, the tree is generated in a breadth-firstfashion.
The process is complete when theonly nodes that remain open are either termi-nals (i.e., nodes that have no daughters) ornodes that appear earlier in the tree, indicatinga cyclic structure.
The house tree reached clo-sure at the 1 lth level.Two other sources account for the remain-ing asymmetries: 8% of the asymmetric casesresult when a central sense of one word issynonymous with a very peripheral sense ofanother.
One sense of say lists add, as in "I leadded that he would do the demonstration.
"The entry for add does not however containthis peripheral sense and deals only with thearithmetic add.
Finally, 6% are due to vo-cabulary inconsistencies.
For example, recordhas annals, archives and diary as synonyms;whereas annals and archives have the pluralrecords; and diary has the phrase daily record.We believe that the CT-synonyms are non-transitive for many of these same reasons.Is it possible to reach any noun in CT byfollowing the synonym links to and from anyother noun?
The answer is NO, but almost.Computing the transitive closure over the syn-onyms of the noun house, where we includethe words listed in the entry for house and theSense DisanzbiguationPerhaps the diversity in meaning encount-ered in the sprout of house came from consid-ering nodes to be words.
Words are, of course,polysemous, o a better choice might be wordsenses.
The CT-entry of house is given below.The numbers 1-6 indicate six different senses.1.
abode, building, domicile, dwelling,edifice, habitation, home, homestead,residence2.
family, household, mrnage3.
ancestry, clan, dynasty, family tree,kindred, line, lineage, race, tribe4.
business, company, concern,establishment, firm, organization, outfit(*Informal), partnership5.
Commons, legislative body, p .arliament6.
hotel, inn, public house, tavern4 We had to ignore these words in our subsequent manipulation of the CT-entries because they had no synonym lists.Thus,  the total number of synonyms available for processing is 221,957.s The following percentages were computed on the basis of fifty random entries.146The synonyms listed for each sense are notseparated into their senses.
Consequently,shnply following the synonyms of housel willnot solve the problem unless each of the syn-onyms for it (abode, ..., residence) is markedwith its appropriate sense.
We have tried twoautomatic methods of sense marking (i.e.
sensedisambiguation): disambiguation by symmetryand disambiguation by intersection.In a dictionary-style thesaurus such as CT,an entry A may have word B listed as a syno-nym of its nth sense, and entry B may haveword A listed as a synonym of its mth sense.We can mark B in entry A as the mth senseof B, and A in entry B as the nth sense of A.An example of this type of one-to-one map-ping in CT is given below.dense (adj) 1 .... condensed ... solid ....2 .... dull ... stupid ...dull (adj) 1. dense .... stupid ....2 .... callous ... unsympathetic:7. drab ... muted ....ttere, sense 1 of dull is synonymous with sense2 of dense.
37% of the 287,000 synonym to-kens show this type of symmetry.
Of course,there are also mappings of the one-to-manyvariety (for example, only the first sense offeeble has faint as its synonym, whereas bothsenses I and 2 of faint have feeble), but theyaccount for only .5% of the tokens.
By thismethod of disambiguation-by-symmetry, wecould automatically mark the senses of allsynonyms in one-to-one and one-to-many re-lations.
The third type of mapping, many-to-many, accounts for just .5% of the total, butit poses a problem for the strategy outlinedabove.
This can best be seen by consideringan example.
Senses 1 and 2 of institution listestablishment as a synonym, and senses 1 and2 of establishment list institution.
Is sense 1 ofinstitution synonymous with sense 1 of estab-lishment or with sense 2?
The distribution ofthe terms institution and establishment cannotanswer the question.The problem of many-to-many mappingsand the large percentage of asymmetricCT-synonyms led us to another method.Consider again the case of dense and dull.Evidence for linking sense 2 of dense withsense I of dull comes from the symmetric dis-tribution of the two words in the entries.There is however another piece of evidence forlinking sense 2 of dense with sense 1 of dull,and that is the co-occurrence of the word stu-pid in their synonym lists.
Thus, the inter-sections of synonym lists serve as the basis foran automatic disambiguation of the many-to-many mappings, and, for that matter, for thedisambiguation f the whole CT.
This is sim-ilar to Lesk's suggestion for disambiguatinghypemyms (Lesk 1986).
The intersectionmethod disambiguated more entries than thesymmetry method, but it, too, left a certainpercentage of ambiguous words.
In somecases, the intersection of two words was null.For example: succesfful and victorious aresymmetric synonyms but none of their othersynonyms are shared.
Their entries are givenbelow.6SUCCESSFUL:> > 0acknowledged$ at the top_of the treeS99best-selling$99 booming$99 efficacious$favourable$ flourishing$0 fortunates 1.2fruitful$3 lucky$1 lucrative$0moneymaking$0 out in frontS99 paying$99profitable$1 prosperous$1 rewarding$0thriving$0 topS unbeaten$1 victorious$wealthy$0VICTORIOUS:> > 0championS conquering$99 firstsprizewinningS99 successful$triumphantS0 vanquishing$99 winningS2In other cases, there was a tie.
For example,ripe2 has equal-size intersections with bothperfeetl and perfect4.
In their following en-tries, ties are indicated by a pair of numbersjoined by a period.PERFECT:> > labsoluteS 1 completeS 1.3 completed$99consummateS2 entire$1.3 fmished$2 fulls 1out-and-outS sheerS2 unadulterated$99unalloyed$99 unmitigated$2 utterS99 wholeS l> > 4accomplished$2 adeptS 1experienced$1expertS2 finished$1 masterly$0 polished$practised$ skilful$0 skilled$0RIPE:> > 2accomplished$1 completeS2 finished$in readiness$ perfectS1.4 prepared$1ready$1The number following the dollar sign indicates the sense number.
No number indicates that the intersection is nulland therefore a sense number was not picked up.
99 indicates that the word has no entry in CT and consequentlyno sense numbers.
0 means that there was only one sense given in the entry.147No disambiguation resulted in either of thesecases.
The results obtained with each methodare shown in the following table:by symmetry:sense disambiguated: 103,648 (46.7%)ties: 1,662 (0.7%)remainder: 116,647 (52.5%)Total number of synonymsavailable for processing: 221,957by intersection:sense disambiguated:ties:remainder:179,126 (80.7%)6,029 (2.7%)36,802 (16.6%)Total number of synonymsavailable for processing: 221,957Figure 1.
Disambiguation ResultsThe quantitative advantage of the inter-section method is evident.
To determine thequalitative difference, we studied cases wherethe symmetry and the intersection methodsconflicted.
We compared fifty randomly se-lected entries.
Of the approximately 900 syno-nyms listed in the entries, 337 weredisambiguated by both methods.
Of these,there were 33 pairs for which the two methodsdisagreed.
20 were symmetric ties,disambiguated by the intersection method.
5were intersection ties, disambiguated by thesymmetry method.
The remaining 8 were givento two human reviewers.
In 3 out of the 8, thereviewers could not determine which of themethods provided better disambiguation, asshown in the following example.FEEBLE:1. debilitated, elicate, doddering, effete,enervated, enfeebled, etiolated, exhausted,failing, faint, frail, infu'm, languid,powerless, puny, shilpit (*Scottish),sickly, weak, weakened2.
fiat, flimsy, inadequate, incompetent,indecisive, ineffective, ineffectual,inefficient, insignificant, insufficient,lame, paltry, poor, slight, tame, thin,unconvincing, weakPOOR:1. badly off, broke (*Informal), destitute,hard up (*Informal), impecunious,impoverished, indigent, in need, in want,necessitous, needy, on one's beam-ends, onone's uppers, on the rocks, penniless,penurious, poverty-stricken, skint7 As before, sense numbers  follow the dollar sign.148(*BritishSlang), stony-broke (*BritishSlang)2. deficient, exiguous, inadequate,incomplete, insufficient, lacking, meagre,miserable, niggardly, pitiable, reduced,scanty, skimpy, slight, sparse, straitened3.
below par, faulty, feeble, inferior,low-grade, mediocre, rotten (*Informal),rubbishy, second-rate, shabby, shoddy,sorry, substandard, unsatisfactory,valueless, weak, worthless4.
bad, bare, barren, depleted, exhausted,fruitless, impoverished, infertile, sterile,unfruitful, unproductive5.
hapless, ill-fated, luckless, miserable,pathetic, pitiable, unfortunate, unhappy,unlucky, wretched6.
humble, insignificant, lowly, mean,modest, paltry, plain, trivialThe symmetry method linked feeble2 withpoor3, whereas the intersection method linkedfeeble2 with poor2.
The remaining 4 caseswere somewhat clearer.
In 3, the intersectionmethod performed better; in one, the symme-try method was superior.
To conclude, thebest disambiguation algorithm would be acombination of the two methods.
We are cur-rently studying more cases where the methodsdisagree in order to determine how they shouldbe combined.
In the following, though, we relyon disambiguation by intersection.TransitivityAfter numbering each token in CT by senseand disambiguating senses, we sprouted fromthe f'trst sense of house.
Each node in the newsprout is not a word anymore, but a specific(numbered) sense of a word.
Words notdisambiguated bythe intersection method wereignored in the new sprout.
Sensedisambiguation did not significantly improvethe results of the sprout.
The sprouting closureof housel contains 85% of the total numberof noun senses in CT.Using senses instead of words, we recom-puted the number of sets which are symmetricand transitive (see section on CT-propertiesabove) and found 86.
Given below are someof the new sets)adhesiveS2 = glueS1 = pasteS1beaks I = bi1155conservatory$0 = hothouseS 1drawS11 = tieS7gradeS3 = gradientS0grouchS2 = grouseS2 = grumbleS3myopic$0poisonS 1spectatorS0well-off$2wolf$2= near-sighted$0 = short-sightedSbtal noun senses in CT. Closure was reached= venomS1 at the 4th level.
The first following list in-= witness$1 cludes most of the nodes that were rejected by= well-to-doS0 the pruning method.
The second list includes= womanizerS0 most of the nodes that were accepted.
8Why is sense disambiguation so ineffectivein restricting the number of nodes encounteredin sprouting?
Consider for example thethesaurus eparation into senses for building:1. domicile, dwelling, edifice, fabric,house, pile, structure2.
architecture, construction, erection,fabricating, raisingSense 2 is a mixture of the act of building, theobject built, and its design.
This indicates thatpoor sense separation in CT is responsible forspuriously related word senses.
We feel that areliable indication of poor sense separation inCT might be an intersection of two synonymswhich is of the size 1.
For example, the inter-section of buiMing2 and erectionl containsonly construction.Erection:1. assembly, building, construction,creation, elevation, establishment,fabrication, manufacture2.
building, construction, edifice, pile,structureBy ignoring CT links with intersections of size1 we were able to eliminate some of the prob-lematic senses and reduce the sprout o includeonly 76% of the total CT-nouns, as opposedto the previous 85%.In an attempt o maintain semantic on-tent, we have explored automatically pruningthe sprout tree when a semantically irrelevantbranch is generated.
Before any CT-synonymis accepted as a node of the tree, itsdescendents are checked against he immediatedescendents of the root node.
If their inter-section is not null, the node is accepted intothe sprout tree.
We have experimented with afew variations: choosing either the daughtersor both daughters and granddaughters of eitherthe root node or the branch node.
We havealso varied the size of the intersection.
Apromising scheme involves checking thedaughters of each node against he daughtersand granddaughters of the root, discardingnodes whose intersection is of size 1.
Whenpruned this way, the sprout tree of houselreached transitive closure with a total of 173noun senses, which constitute 1.4% of the2-homeS3 2-fabricS2 3-barracks$03-assembly$2 3-compositionS 1 3-erectionS 13-fabricationS1 3-figureS3 -formS73-formationS2 3-shapeS I3-designS4 3-makeS 12 3-makingS13-manufactureS3 3-mouldS2 3-organizationS I3-productionS1 3-houseS2 3-pointS23-orientationS 1 3-quarterS 1 4-chambers 14-frameworkS0 4-systemS1 4-anatomy$24-buildS4 4-hullS 1 4-physiqueS04-rackS1 4-skeletonS0 4-arrangementS14-configurationS0 4-formatS04-organizationS2 4-arclfitecture$24-turnS17 4-conformationS04-constitutionS2 4-methodS2.
.
.4-entourageS2 4-fieldS3 4-aspectS20-houseS 1 1-abodeS0 l-buildingS 11-domicileS0 l-dweUing$0 l-edificeS01-habitationS1 l-homeS1 l-residenceS1l-address$1 -establishmentS4 1-placeS5l-seatS4 2-lodgingS0 2-quarters$02-1odgings$0 2-mansionS0 2-pileS42-structureS2 2-constructionS 12-erectionS2 -households I 2-padS42-1ocation$0 2-situationS 12-whereabouts$0 3-accommodationS23-billetS 1 3-apartmentS0 3-frameS43-make-upS2 3-structureS1 3-bearings$03-localeS0 3-placeS1 3-positions 13-siteS 1 3-spotS2 3-emplacementS 13-1ocality$2 3-seatS2 3-settingS03-stationS1 3-environmentS0 3-sceneS2ApplicationsOne way in which sprout trees of syno-nyms may prove to be useful is in measuringthe semantic distance between words.
It ispossible, for example, to sprout from two dif-ferent root nodes until their trees intersect, hatis, until they have a common node, which,with further sprouting, will become a commonbranch.
We believe that a common node in-dicates a common semantic aspect and that analgorithm for measuring semantic distance be-tween words can be formulated on the basisof the common nodes of their trees.
Intuitively,the algorithm will depend on the number ofThe number preceding the word indicates the level on which it was encountered in the tree.
The number followingthe dollar sign indicates its sense number.149common branches and on the level at whichthey occur in the respective trees.
Here we aretaking a somewhat simple view in consideringonly the hrst common node encountered.
OurSYNCHAIN program produces simultane-ously two sprout trees from two root nodes.After all words on a level are encountered inthe two trees, the program checks whether thetrees intersect.
It stops when a common nodeis encountered.
The user specifies the two rootnodes and the level to which the trees shouldbe sprouted.
The program provides a commonnode, if one was encountered.
This is illus-trated in the two following examples:the man visited the apartment in a white suit.DECL NP DETNOUN*VERBI*NP DETNOUN*9 ppPUNC ".
"ADJ* "the""man""visited"ADJ* "the""apartment"PREP "in~DET ADJ* "a"AJP ADJ* "white"NOUN* "suit"Figure 3.
Parse Tree 2synchain apartmentS0 houseS 13apartmentS0-> placeS5 <-houseS1synchain apartmentS0 suitS5 3chain could not be constructedIn the In, st example, the apartment$O tree andthe houseS1 tree intersect on their first level.Both have placeS5 as their daughter.
In thesecond example, the apartment$O tree and thesuitS5 tree (in the meaning of garment) do notintersect as far as the third level.
This suggeststhat the word senses of the t'n'st pair are muchcloser in meaning than those of the second.This distinction can assist in the analysisof natural language text (for purposes oftranslation, text critiquing .and others), byproviding semantic information to a syntacticparser.
In particular, we have in mind a parsersuch as the PLNLP English Parser, PEG(Jensen 1986), which cannot resolve cases ofsyntactic ambiguity on its own.
Consider thefollowing pair of sentences with their PLNLPanalyses:the man visited the apartment in the house.DECL NP DET ADJ* "the"NOUN* "man"VERB* "visited"NP DET ADJ* "the"N O U N * "apart ment"'~ PP PREP "in"DET ADJ* "the"NOUN* "house"PUNC ".
"PEG produces similar analyses for the twosentences, where the prepositional phrases areattached to the closest head, that is, to thenoun apartment.
A question mark indicates analternate attachment to the verb visited.
Se-mantic information is needed to resolve theattachment ambiguity (Jensen and Binot1986).
Our measure of semantic distance candetermine the proper attachment in this case.If the two nouns are semantically close, theattachment displayed by PEG is the moreplausible one.
If the two nouns are seman-tically distant, the alternate attachment is moreplausible.An automatic measure of semantic distancecan assist information retrieval systems as well.One can conceive of a system which will re-trieve documents containing synonyms ofthe key word by first searching for a very re-strictive set of synonyms (first-level synonymsperhaps).
If not enough documents are re-trieved, words that are more distant seman-tically can be searched for as well.
Anotherapplication for which a sprouted synonym treeis useful is third-generation -line dictionarysystems (Neff, et al, 1988).
Among otherthings, these systems display synonyms to us-ers who are editing natural anguage texts.
Thelist of synonyms presented by the system canbe arranged according to the semantic distancebetween the word interrogated and the wordson the synonym list.
It should be noted, how-ever, that for this application, words need tobe arranged according to additional parametersas well.
Synonyms that are polysemous or raremay be poor substitution candidates in a gen-eral text.Figure 2.
Parse Tree 1 Finally, we are now investigating the pos-sible use of our tools by lexicographers whowish to update and revise an existing on-linethesaurus.
Easy access to asymmetric links, tosynonyms with very small intersecting lists, tolists of words that are pruned from sprouttrees, and to any other sorted information thatwe can provide automatically should make the150work of lexicographers much more easilymanageable.
Our goal is to develop a tool thatwill automatically ocate all different ypes ofinconsistencies and oversights in the thesaurus(Ravin, et al, in preparation).ConclusionWe have explored the nature of the implicitsynonym links in CT and have found it com-plex but promisingly rich.
Our goal is to con-tinue to improve the automatic extraction ofinformation from this source, until we formacceptable sets of semantically related words.These sets will have to satisfy both humanintuitions about meaning and some more the-oretic linguistic riteria.
To these sets, we willadd information from other on-line sources.This direction of research seems promising asa first step towards the automatic organizationof meaning.REFERENCESByrd.
R. J.
(1986), "Dictionary Systems forOffice Practice," Proceedings of the GrossetoWorkshop "On Automating the Lexicon".
Alsoavailable as IBM Research Report RC 11872.Byrd, R. J., G Neumann, and K. S. B.Andersson (1986) "DAM - A Dictionary Ac-cess Method," IBM Research Report.Chodorow, M. S., R. J. Byrd, and G. E.tleidom (1985) "Extracting Semantic Hierar-chies from a large On-line Dictionary," Pro-ceedings of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, 299-304.Collins (1984) The New Collins Thesaurus,Collins Publishers, Glasgow.Dewdney, A. K. (1987) "Word ladders and atower of Babel lead to computational heightsdefying assault," Scientific American, August1987, 108-111.Grishman, R. (1986) ComputationalLinguistics, Cambridge University Press,Cambridge.Jensen, Karen (1986) "PEG 1986: A Broad-coverage Computational Syntax of English,"Unpublished paper.Jensen, Karen and Jean-Louis Binot (1987)"Disambiguating Prepositional Phrase Attach-ments by Using On-Line Dictionary Defi-nitions," to appear in ComputationalLinguistics, special issue on the lexicon.
Alsoavailable as IBM Research Report RC 12148.Katz, J. and J. Fodor (1963) "The Structureof a Semantic Theory," Language, 34,2:170-210Lesk, M. (1986) "Automatic sensedisambiguation using machine-readable dic-tionaries: ttow to tell a pine cone from an icecream cone," Proceedings of 1986 SIGDOCConference, Canada.Marcotorchino, F. (1986) "Maximal Associ-ation Theory", in Classification as a Tool forResearch, W. Gaul and M. Schader, eds.,North I Iolland.Merriam (1963) Webster's Seventh NewCollegiate Dictionary, G. & C. Merriam,Springfield, Massachusetts.Neff, M. S., R. J. Byrd, and O.
A. Rizk (1988),"Creating and Querying Lexical Data Bases,"ACL Second Conference on Applied NaturalLanguage Processing.Quine, W. (1960) Word and Object, MITPress, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Ravin, Y., M. Chodorow, and 1I.
Sachar (inpreparation) '~Fools for lexicographers rcvisingan on-line thesaurus.
"Wamesson, I.
(1985) "Optimization of Se-mantic Relations by Data Aggregation Tech-niques," Journal of Applied Stochastic Modelsand Data Analysis, 1,2 (December), J. Wiley,New York.151
