NATURAL LANGUAGE INTERFACES:  PRESENT AND FUTURENorman K. SondheimerUSC/Information Sciences Institute4676 Admiralty WayMarina del Rey, CA 90266, USASondheimer~isi.eduPRESENTThe 1980's have seen the arrival of commer-cially successful natural anguage interfaces.
Ar-tificial Intelligence Corporation's Inte l lect  1 wasintroduced in the 1970's, but expanded in thisdecade to support interaction with a widevariety of systems.
Each year, AIC hosts a usergroup conference that draws hundreds of people.The middle of the decade saw the arrival ofSymantec's Qg~A whose natural language inter-face has helped it win honors as one of the PCprograms that is easiest to use.
Qg~A nowspeaks many languages besides English.Worldwide sales have exceeded 100,000 copies.Just as highly rated and as popular is LotusHAL whose English interface makes Lotus 1-2-8more accessible.
Last Fall, Lotus widely adver-tised a bundled package of 1-2-8 and HAL.The two newest products, BBN Laboratories'Par lance  and Natural Language's DataTa lker ,show the most extensive and detailed control ofEnglish yet achieved.
Both have gathered sig-nificant financial support and are positioned formajor impact on the marketplace.This achievement has not been easily ob-tained.
Other products have not achieved theselevels of acceptance or technical quality.
Manydevelopment efforts have failed to produceproducts.
The field has so far failed to developthe immense market predicted for it early on inthe po.~ular press.FUTUREWithout assuming any major scientificbreakthroughs we can safely extrapolate fromthe roots of today's successes into the future.First, we know that natural language under-standing is a hard problem.
So we know thatthe natural language products that succeed willnot appear overnight, but will be the result ofcareful development.
They also need moreelaborate grammars and semantic systems.Even so we know that they will not cover any-thing but a fraction of English.
Clearly ahabitable fraction can be achieved, but successfulproducts will find ways to achieve partial under-standing and graceful error recovery.Since interfaces need to be tailored to achievethe greatest success in each new application,products will be rewarded for good knowledgeacquisition tools.
To date, these have mostlybeen tools to build lexicons, but they will haveto go further and give the customer more accessto the grammar, semantics, and pragmatics.Few users care whether a computer speakstheir natural language.
Their goal is to interactwith the computer in a natural way.
Soproducts will be rewarded that integrate naturallanguage into other means of interacting: point-ing, drawing, menus, etc.Of course, products will be rewarded for ach-ieving all the traditional data processingqualities: efficient processing, good documen-tation, trustworthy support, upward com-patibility between releases, etc.Finally, we can point to speech understand-ing as the one field where breakthroughs willmake a major difference in the natural languageinterface market.
If users can be freed from thedemands of the keyboards, they will rush tonatural anguage interfaces.THE PANELThese opinions on our technology are thoseof the moderator.
Today's panel is composed ofthe leading innovators in commercial naturallanguage interfaces.
They will try to identifywhere their systems ucceed, where they are lessthan successful, and where the field is likely tohead.
Feel free to contact them to learn moreabout their individual products.
Names, ad-dresses, and telephone numbers are provided onthe next page.1Brands and products are trademarks oftheir respective holders.176PANELISTS"Rusty BobrowDeveloper of ParlanceBBN Laboratories, Inc.Building 610 Fawcett St.Cambridge, MA 02238(617) 491-1850Jerrold GinspargDeveloper of DataTalkerNatural Language Inc.1786 Fifth StreetBerkeley, CA 94710(415) 841-3500Larry HarrisDeveloper of IntellectArtificial Intelligence Corporation100 Fifth AvenueWaltham, MA 02254(617) 890-8400Gary G. HendrixDeveloper of Q&ASymantec10201 Torre Ave.Cupertino, CA 95014(408) 253-9600Steve KleinCo-Developer of Lotus HALSingular Solutions Engineering959 East Colorado Blvd., Suite 3Pasadena, CA 91106(818) 792-9567177
