THE MULTIVOC TEXT-TO-SPEECH SYSTEMOlivier M. Emorine and Pierre M. MartinCap Sogeti InnovationGrenoble Research CenterAvenue du Vieux Chene, ZIRST38240 Meylan, FRANCEABSTRACTIn this paper we introduce MULTIVOC, areal-world text-to-speech product geared to theFrench language.Starting from a ordinary French text, MUL-TIVOC generates in real-time a high quality speechusing a synthesis-by-diphone m thod.
The process-ing is divided into 3 main transformations (phoneti-zation, automatic prosody and rhythm marking, andgeneration of LPC frames).This paper provides a full description ofMULTIVOC including not only the technical viewbut also some applications of the product within thereal world.1.
PRESENTATION OF MULTIVOCThe text-to-speech MULTIVOC system is theresult of a technology transfer from a research insti-tute (CNET Lannion, France), which developed thebasis of the system, to an industrial company (CapSogeti Innovation, France) which made the system acommercial product.
Generating Linear PredictionCoding frames from ordinary text written in French,the goal of MULTIVOC is to give any standardapplications the ability to produce (in real time)low-cost and high-quality speech output.MULTIVOC is shipped as a completesoftware system which aims to provide a sophisti-cated driver enabling applications to directly sendFrench spoken text.
The software package consistsof the kernel of the driver itself and a set of dic-tionaries used by it.
Several tools in the packageallow an advanced user to tailor his own MUL-TIVOC driver to specific usage.
Beside this staticconfiguration facility, MULTIVOC also providesseveral run-time features.
By submitting specificrequests an application can change the followingparameters:?
The sampling frequency for generated frames.Three different frequencies are available: 8 kHz, 10kHk and 16 kHz.
This parameter will characterizethe quality of the output voice, a frequency of 16kHz providing the best results.?
The tone of the output voice can be adjusted inthe range 50-350 Hz.?
The speech speed may be set from 1 to 10 syll-ables per second.?
Two styles of prosody are provided.
The"reading-style" corresponds to the usual way ofreading a text, while the "advertising-style" is dedi-cated to short commercial messages like jingles.?
One can also choose between a female or a malevoice.The method used for the synthesis producesLinear Prediction Coding (LPC) frames generatedfrom a diphone dictionary.
Such a dictionary isspecific to the sampling frequency used (8, 10 or16kHz) and also to the style of voice (Female orMale).
For this purpose, MULTIVOC provides 6differents diphone dictionaries.The overall processing is organized as a pipe-lined set of transformations applied to the input text.At the higher level, one can distinguish the follow-ing functions:The pre-processing (or lexical processing) isa text-to-text ransformation aiming to expandesome non-worded terms like numbers (1987 -->"Mille Neuf Cent Quatre-Vingt-Sept"), administra-tive numbers (A4/B5 --> "A Quatre B Cinq") oracronyms (CSINN.
--> "Cap Sogeti Innovation").The phonetization process transforms thepre-processed text into phonemes according to pre-defined rules stored in a user-modifiable base.The prosody marking process scans thephonetized text and generates appropriate marks toreflect the prosody of the text using built-in rulesbased on the different punctuation signs and thegrammatical type of words.The rhythm marking process computes theduration associated to each phoneme.Last, the frame generation process producesthe LPC frames which correspond to the input textaccording to the different parameters specified andcan be sent directly to the output device.115In this overall processing, we have deli-berately avoided a time-consuming syntax analysis,to enable MULTIVOC to run in real time.
Thischoice has made MULTIVOC a commerciallyviable product providing a high-quality speech atlow cost and which has been sold to serve as abasic component for several industrial applications.MULTIVOC is available on IBM-PC based systems.2.
THE MULTIVOC PROCESSAs explained in the previous section, the inputtext provided by an application is processed in a"pipe-line" through five processes (see figure 1).French TextPre-processingIktionJ\[Prosody markingI \[ Rhythm ComputationIGeneration of LPC frames"Reading.Style" ProsodyI11I \] \[ Generation of LPC frames \] \['Advertising-Style ProsodyJILPC FramesFigure 1 : The MULTIVOC processingEach process takes as input the result of thepreceding one and fills specific attributes of theobjects composing the internal representation of thetext.
The final result, a list of LPC frames, is thensent to the LPC interpreter of a speech synthesisdevice (not described here).?
PRE-PROCESSINGThe main purpose of this first step is todecompose the input sentences into a list of ~ordsand to set the lexical attributes of each word.
Inorder to allow ordinary-written text to be correctlyprocessed, some patterns are translated into asequence of words:?
numbers are expansed according to the Frenchlanguage rules.
The words generated are tagoed topermit a correct prosody marking for numbers.,, digital dates, time templates (not exhaustive) arematched against corresponding patterns in a set ofrules which define the transformation to be applied.Patterns corresponding to the matching part and thetransformation format are expressed using a UNIX-scanf/printf-like syntax.?
abbreviations and acronyms are translated accord-ing to a user-defined lexicon.
The translation partassociated each entry of the lexicon can be:- empty to specify that the recognized word is tobe spelledex: 'MIT.'
--> .
(which will produce 'M I T'\[EM EE TAY in French\])- a full text string which will replace the match-ing wordex: 'MIT.'
--> 'Massachusetts Institute of Tech-nology' (in French!...
)- a phonetic string if the pronunciation is verydifferent from the lexical form.
This function isparticularly useful for company or product namesex: 'MIT . '
- -> 'AI"MAYTI'.
(better)?
mathematic symbols are also translatedThe process then checks if each word can bepronounced, according to a dictionary of the Frenchsequences of pronounceable tters, and if it cannotthe word is spelled.Finally, an attribute is associated to each worddescribing the grammatical nature of the word (pro-noun, determin, preposition .
.
.
.
).
This dictionary israther small (300 entries) and does not contain mostverbs but does contain the usual auxiliaries.A complete analysis of the sentences wouldprovide a better prosody but, due to the size of thecorresponding dictionary, could not be processed inreal-time.
The resulting prosody is neverthelessjudged very natural, albeit in some few cases some-what strange.<LC> and <RC> are the respective Left andRight contexts of the Matching Sequence<PS> is the sequence of Phonetic Symbols to begeneratedand has the meaning:"Replace <MS> by <PS> if <MS> is preceded by<LC> and followed by <RC>.Each context specification (<LC> and <RC>)can be empty, in which case the rule is applicablewith no conditions, or can be expressed as a logicalcombination of elementary context:context == elementary.context AND contextI elementary.context OR context\[elementary.contextAn elementary context is either a sequence ofcharacters or a class of sequence of characters (e.g.consonants or vowels).During interpretation, if several rules areapplicable, the one containing the longest MatchingSequence is chosen: thus, the interpreter goes fromthe particular case to the general case.
If more thanone rule satisfies this criterion the first one is chosenand if no rule is applicable, a character is poppedfrom the input and pushed to the output before theprocess tart again.Example of rules:\[ _LORS \]_PUTS _QUOl \] QUE_ \[\] ..> <K><EU>_.\[\] _QUE \[\] -.> <K><E> .Note: several characters play a special role.
"- the character ' ' (underscore) denotes a blank character- the character T denotes the logical operator OR- the character '&' denotes the logical operator ANDOne of the set of rules is dedicated to the determi-nation of the correct liaisons between words.?
PHONETIZATIONThis process transforms the sentences into asequence of phonetic symbols.
This transformationis carried out by five set of rules.
The sets areapplied successively to the input text.Each rule has the following form:\[<LC>\] <MS> \[<RC>\] --> <PS>.where<MS> is the Matching Sequence of characters inthe input text?
PROSODY MARKINGThe synthetic speech produced by mere con-catenation of diphones is comprehensible but notvery natural.
To provide it with an acceptable qual-ity, it is necessary to operate a prosody processing.Prosody facts are of two kinds (Emerard, 1977),(Guidini, 1981), (Sorin, 1984):?
macro-prosody, related to the syntactic and seman-tic structure of the sentence,117?
micro-prosody, treating the interaction betweentwo consecutive phonemes.A study of a set of phrases and the diversityof the voice "styles" (reading, advertising .
.
.
.  )
hasprovided an automatic prosody generation system(Aggoun, 1987).
In the first step, this processdecomposes the sentences in a set of so-calledprosody-groups, and associates to each of them agroup category.
In the second step, each wordwithin a group is marked and a pause is associatedwith it.Prosody-Group CategorizationA prosody-group is by consecutive words.
Aset of rules determines the boundaries of a groupand its associated category.
The main criteriainvolved in this decomposition are:?
the punctuation marks (including the end of a sen-tence), each of them defining a different category?
the grammatical natures of two consecutive words.For example, a group ends after a lexicalword (noun, non-auxiliary verbal form) followed bya grammatical word (determinant, pre-position .
.
.
.
).In that case, the category of the group depends onthe second word.The resulting sequence of groups is then pro-cessed in order to adjust their categories.
Hereagain, the process is governed by rules based on thefollowing information:?
the length of the group (the number of words itcontains),?
the number of syllables of each word within thegroup,?
the number and the length of non-lexical words,?
the category of the adjacent groupsAs an example of rule:IF there exist a sequence (S) containing 3 groupsof category '5' without a pause already establishedfor one of them,AND if one of them (G) begins with one of thefollowing determinant ('AU' or 'AUX')THEN give a category '4' to G and give it a short pauseexcept if its pause is already long.For instance, 50 rules of this kind allow a completecategorization of the groups.\[Note: some of them are simpler !\]Word MarkingAccording to the category of the group it belongsto, its length, its grammatical nature, each word of agroup is then marked and, possibly, a pause isplaced at the end of the word.For example:IF the group contains exactly 2 non-lexical consecutivewords,AND the first one has one syllableAND the second more than one,THEN give the first word the mark  '6+' and give the secondthe mark  '4-'It should be noted that the set of rules used dependson the style of prosody required by the application('reading' or 'advertising').Although some attempts have been made toexpress the prosody-marking rules in a declarativeway (Sorin, 1984), (Aggoun, 1987), based on thelogic paradigm, the efficiency criteria and the real-time objective we have defined for this product ledus to represent them in a procedural way rather thanin a production-Srule form.At the end of this process, some words remainunmarked.
In the next processes, we consider asequence of unmarked word terminated by a markedone (a prosody-word) as the basic entity to dealwith.?
RHYTHM COMPUTATIONThe third process involved in MULTIVOCconsists in the computation of the duration to asso-ciate to each phoneme.
This duration is computedaccording to the different attributes attached to eachword and to each phoneme, which are:?
the kind of phoneme (plosive \[bang\], fricative\[french\], liquid \[long\]),?
the mark associated the word?
the number of syllabin of the word?
the position of the phoneme within the wordand a set of rules using this information.
As anexample of such rules:IF the last phoneme of the word is a vowelAND the mark of tire word is '5'OR if a pause is associated with the word,THEN give a duration of '1.4' to this phoneme\[Note: the default duration of every phoneme is '1.0' \]118?
PROSODY GENERATIONTo every word-mark corresponds a macro-melody schema.
This schema enables us to deter-mine the variation of the pitch along the word.Three basic functions are used to express the pitchvariation:?
constant: the pitch remains unchanged?
linear interpolation?
exponential variation,namely F(t) = F(to) * e -p(t -tO)where F(t) denotes the value of the pitch at thetime 't', tO is the initial time and p is a con-stant (p = 0.68)Every macro-melody schema begins at Fdeb,the fundamental frequency of the speaker.
Fde b is setto 240 Hz for a Female voice and 120 Hz for aMale voice.
This fundamental is adjusted if theword has a micro-mark '+' or '-'.Then a set of rules determines when thesefunctions hould be applied to a word.As an example:For words with mark  '1 '  and containing more thanfour syllables:- apply constant from the beginning until the middle ofthe second vowel,- apply exponential with p/2 until the beginning of thefirst 'voise' phoneme of the last syllable (point A),- apply constant Fdeb/2 from the end of thelast vowel (point B) to the end of the word,- interpolate f rom A to BThen a set of micro-prosody rules is appliedon the vowels ('fine tuning').Example:IF a vowel is not in the last syllable of a wordAND followed by an unvoiced consonantTHEN the pitch of the last LPC f rames of the vowel isadjusted in the following manner :let C = \[ F (LF  - 3) - 7/12 * Fde b \] * 100 inF(LF - 2) = F (LF -  3) - 10 * CF (LF -  1) = F (LF -  3) - 15 * CF(LF) = F(LF  -3) - 20 * CAt these step in the process, all needed infor-mation has been computed (pitch, duration) andMULTIVOC generates an LPC structure after hav-ing accessed a dictionary of diphones to get thecoefficient of the lattice filter for each phoneme.3.
IMPLEMENTATION OF MULTIVOCThe MULTIVOC software was developed inC on MS-DOS 3.2 and is compatible with UNIXBSD 4.2.
This product is sold either as a runningpackage (binary form) for IBM-PC compatible com-puters or as an adaptable package (source form) forspecific usage.On the IBM-PC, the speech synthesis deviceused comes from the OROS Company (France) andis featured as an IBM-PC pluggable board (OROS-AU20) based on a Texas Instruments TMS320/20processor.
Tile MULTIVOC driver is implementedas a memory-resident program which applicationcan address using an interrupt mechanism.
Doingthis, any application can very easily send text to bepronounced in real time.A Microsoft Windows application has beendeveloped to demonstrate the facilities offered byMULTIVOC.
Users can enter text using a built-ineditor and can send all or mouse-selected text toMULTIVOC.
A form (Dialogue-Box) allows thedifferent parameters of MULTIVOC to be set touser specified values.MULTIVOC has also been successfully portedto UNIX BSD 4.2 on a SUN-3 but the driverspecific aspects have not yet been developedbecause of tile lack of speech synthesis devices forsuch machines.4.
APPLICATIONS OF MULTIVOCWe give below three examples of concreteand real-world applications of MULTIVOC in anindustrial context:?
The first one was to use MULTIVOC to pro-nounce TELEX-style messages.
This has been real-ized by defining an appropriate lexicon for thenumerous abbreviations and acronyms used in suchmessages.
The sources of MULTIVOC have notbeen modified.
* The second application, or class of application, isto adapt MULTIVOC to low cost and small home-computers to devek)p a new generation of productfor this market (Computer aided education software,for example).
This is conducted by two customerswho bought the sources of MULTIVOC and arenow producing a restricted version of the product.119?
The third application is to use MULTIVOC as abasic component in a sophisticated application.
Weare now running a project for the French Telecom-munications (DGT) to develop phone-based mallservices.
Using a standard French phone, any userwill be able to call the mailing service and dialcommands to hear the different messages he hasreceived.
Several user-friendly features will enableto hear again part or all of a message or to changeMULTIVOC-Iike parameters (deeper voice, slower,...).
For the purposes of this project MULTIVOCwill not be changed.5.
FURTHER WORKThe work planned around MULTIVOC is oftwo kinds: the more research issues and the morecommercial/industrial ones.Research issues will include the handling ofother languages (English), knowing that someimportant parts of MULTIVOC have been dedicatedto French for reasons of efficiency and thereforewill have to be re-written.
More valuable results areforeseen by applying our company's experience innatural language processing (Lancel, 1986), (Deci-tre, 1987) to the input phase of MULTIVOC.As a commercial issue, we will continue tosell the MULTIVOC software system and to colla-borate with our customers.
In the industrial field wethink that a component like MULTIVOC will be amuch-appreciated complement o many commonapplications.
To prepare that, we envisage to installMULTIVOC on other machines and other operatingsystems and this should not cause any trouble.We will also adapt MULTIVOC to differentspeech synthesis devices based on the lin,:ar predic-tion technique.
Finally, we will investigate the useof other synthesis technics (synthesis by formantsfor instance).7.
REFERENCESAggoun A., "Le syst~me Synthex: Traitement de laprosodie en synth~se de la parole", Technique etScience Informatiques, vol.
6, no.
3, pp.
217-229,1987Decitre P., Grossi T., Jullien C., Solvay J.P., "Plan-ning for Problem Formulation in Advice-GivingDialogue", 3rd Conference of the European Chapterof the Association for Computational Linguistics,Copenhagen (Denmark), 1987.Emerard F., "Synth~se par Diphones et Traitementde la Prosodie", Th~se de troisi6me cycle, Univer-sit6 de Grenoble, 1977.Guidini A., Choppy C., Dupeyrat B., "Applicationde R6gles au Calcul Automatique de la Prosodie.Comparaison avec la Prosodie Naturelle", Sympo-sium Prosodic, Toronto 1981.Lancel J.M., Rousselot F., Simonin N., "A GranunarUsed for Parsing and Generation", Proceedings ofthe XIth International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, pp.
536-539, Bonn (FR Germany), 1986.Sorin C., Stella M., Aggoun A., Barthkova K.,"R~gles Prosodiques et Synth~se de la Parole'MULTI-STYLE', Symposium Franco-Sovi6tiquesur le Dialogue Homme-Machine, Pouchino, 1984.6.
CONCLUSIONAlthough based on a quite simple mechanismusing only a local lexical analysis, avoiding expen-sive syntactic or semantic analysis, the resultsobtained with MULTIVOC are impressive.
In partic-ular, the output speech has very natural prosody.Finally, the performance achieved by MULTIVOCmakes it a real-time Text-To-Speech system thatwill be widely applied in industry.120
