HANDLING SCOPE AMBIGUIT IES IN ENGLISHSven HurumDepartment of Computing Science615 General Services BuildingUniversity of AlbertaEdmonton, Canada T6G 2H1ABSTRACTThis paper describes a program for handling "scopeambiguities" in individual English sentences.
The programoperates on initial logical translations, generated by aparser/translator, in which "unscoped elements" such asquantifiers, coordinators and negation are left in place to beextracted and positioned by the scoping program.
The programproduces the set of valid scoped readings, omitting logicallyredundant readings, and places the readings in an approximateorder of preference using a set of domain-independentheuristics.
The heuristics are based on information about thelexical type of each operator and on "structural relations"between pairs of operators.
The need for suchdomain-independent heuristics is emphasized; in some casesthey can be decisive and in general they will serve as a guideto the use of further heuristics based on domain-specificknowledge and on the context of discourse.
The emphasis ofthis paper is on discussing several of the more problematicaspects of the scoping protocol which wcre encountered duringthe design of the scoping program.INTRODUCTIONNatural anguages contain a variety of "logical operators"which interact with each other to give rise to different ypes ofambiguity.
The logical operators recognized by the scopingprogram include quantifiers, coordinators and negation, whichare initially "unscoped" and must therefore be moved intoposition by the program, and adverbs, predicates andconnectives (such as if-then).
At the moment, other operatorssuch as tense, aspect and modals are left in place and thereforeassume innermost scope.
There is some evidence that thehandling of the scoping of quantifiers relative to such operatorsmay require special treatment (eg.
Fodor 1970; Enc 1981;S aarinen 1983).Three simple examples will illustrate some differenttypes of scope ambiguity and their representation i  aninformal first order predicate logic, using restrictions onquantifiers and an infix notation for sentential formulas.
Themeanings of the different interpretations should be clear.
Forexample, (4) may mean that John didn't meet either Jane orMary (5) or that he didn't meet at least one of them (6).
Furtherexamples are given in Hurum & Schubert (1986) and Hurum(1987).
Some alternative proposals for representing scopeambiguities are also discussed in the latter.
(1) Someone loves everyone(2) (3x:person (Vy:person \[x loves y\]))(3) (Vy:person (3x:person \[x loves y\]))(4) John didn't meet Jane or Mary(5) --,\[\[John met Jane\] v \[John met Mary\]\](6) \[--,\[John met Jane\] v ~\[John met Mary\]\](7) Someone always comes late(8) (3x:person (always \[x comes late\]))(9) (always (3x:person \[x comes late\]))Until quite recently, designers of natural languageunderstanding systems have given little attention to theproblem of dealing with scope ambiguities.
Two of the earliestattempts to incorporate quantifier scoping into natural anguageunderstanding systems in ,an integral way are described inWoods (1978) and Dahl (1979).
Some more recent scopingalgorithms are presented in McCord (1981), Warren & Pereira(1982), Hobbs (1983), Saint-Dizier (1985) and Hobbs &Shieber (1987).While each of these algorithms introduces some newfeatures, certain problems, such as the scoping of coordinatorsand the use of heuristics to select preferred readings, havegenerally been given little or no treatment.
Some of the mainfeatures of the algorithm being discussed here are: (a) ithandles ambiguities created by quantifiers, coordinators,negation and adverbs, ~(b) it works bottom-up and left-to-rightand generates the set of valid scoped readings in one pass, (c)it removes logically redundant readings as they areencountered uring the process of scoping and (d) it usesdomain-independent heuristics, during the scoping, to arrangethe readings in an approximate order of preference.LOGICAL REPRESENTATIONThe scoping program is designed to be used as anextension to a parser/translator which generates initialtranslations in a first order modal logic augmented with certainoperators (Schubert & Pelletier 1982).
The operators beingused include a generic kind forming operator, g, and theFour types of coordinated expression are currently handled: nounphrases, noun complements, verbs and verb phrases.
At the momentadverbs are treated as scoped (unmoved) elements.58operators ~ and x which form functions and terms,respectively, from infix and prefix expressions.
For example,the operators x I and x 2 map infix and prefix expressions,respectively, into terms.The syntax of the logical translations has been chosen tosimplify the mapping from the syntax (using a modified GPSGparser).
A mixed infix/prefix notation has been used in order tokeep the logical form as close as possible to the surface form.Two examples of the initial logical translations being used areshown below.
Unscoped operators, which are to be extractedand positioned by the scoping program, are placed in angledbrackets; the square, curly and round brackets signify infix(sentential), prefix (predicative) and functional expressions,respectively.
The suffixes which are attached to each word tomark their surface position are not shown here.
(10) Many people visit Europe every month(11) ((at 2 {during <every month>})\[<many person> (PRES {visit Europe})\])(12) That John didn't arrive surprised Jane and Mary(13) \[('r 1 \[John <not (PAST {arrive})>\])(PAST {surprise <and Jane Mary>})\]A sample of the output from the program is shown in theAppendix.
The two sentences shown are1.
All men want to marry Peggy or Sue2.
Mary (read or told some story to each child)The output for each sentence consists of an echo of the inputformula followed by a list of scoped readings orderedaccording to their average scoping weight (see below).
In theLISP notation, the prefixes i, p, f, q and c are used to markinfix, prefix, functional, quantified and coordinatedexpressions.
The first sentence is taken from Schubert &Pclletier (1982) which gives a description of the threeinterpretations.
The second sentence has been parsed as havinga verb phrase ambiguity (indicated by the brackets) and theinput formula therefore contains two duplicated operators.
Thetwo comparisons made are each~some and each~or.
Nocomparison is made between the commutative operators omeand or.COORDINATED EXPRESSIONSThe scoping of coordinated expressions poses severalproblems.
One problem is how to avoid the "vacuous"quantification or coordination which may result whenever acoordinated expression contains an unscoped operator.
Forexample, if the indefinite some blonde in (14) is applied to theclause before the coordinator, the subsequent application of thelatter will result in vacuous quantification (15).
(14) John met Mary or some blonde(1'5) \[(3x: blonde \[John {met Mary}\]) or(3x: blonde \[John {met x}\])\]Similarly, "vacuous coordination" may result when nestedcoordinators are present.
This problem could be avoided byscoping in several passes, in each pass scoping only operatorswhich are not embedded inside a coordinator.
However, thiswould considerably complicate the scoping algorithm andwould also violate the principle of applying the innermostoperator first.A second problem is how to handle the scoping ofmultiple copies of the same operator which may occur whenthe operator is embedded inside a coordinated expression.
Thisproblem is unavoidable when it results from the parser; forexample, (16) may be parsed and initially translated into (17).The brackets signify that the sentence has been parsed ashaving a VP coordination.
(16) John (hopes and intends to buy a boat)(17) \[John <and (PRES {hope(x2 (INF {buy <a I boat>}))})(PRES {intend('r 2 (INF {buy <a 1 boat>}))}) >\]Three constraints on a duplicated operator such as a I are that(a) it must scope consistently with respect to all otheroperators, (b) it must only be compared once to each otheroperator (for the purposes of computing the preferred scopeorderings) and (c) if it scopes outside a coordinator whichinitially embeds it, only one copy of the operator can becarried up.
This poses a problem for bottom-up approaches toscoping since some global knowledge is needed to ensure theconsistency of the scoping of duplicated operators inside thedifferent expressions in which they occur.
It therefore isnecessary to use some overhead to keep track of the scoperelations of operators which are present in multiple copies, andto store this information separately for each reading.Duplication of operators may also occur during thescoping process.
For example, the application of one of thecoordinators in(18) John and Bill visited Spain or Moroccowill result in the duplication of the other.
At present, thescoping program avoids this problem, as well as the problemof vacuous quantification, by using a "branch-trimming"function which removes incorrectly embedded operators fromthe different branches of a coordinator at the time of applyingthe coordinator.
This function is simple to use but does involvesome extra overhead.
The problem of duplication resultingfrom the parser is handled by labelling readings and by storingon the property list of each duplicated operator a list of theoperators having been scoped inside and outside the operator.A third problem is how to treat unscoped operatorsinside "coordinated predicates".
In example (16) it seemsevident hat the indefinite a boat cannot have both opaque andtransparent interpretations in the same reading.
That is,assuming that the opaque/transparent distinction is to berepresented in terms of scope, then both copies of theindefinite must scope consistently relative to the twocoordinated predicates hope and intend.
Since the twopredicates are distinct, and therefore should be allowed toscope independently with a boat, the current version of the59program contains a special constraint which forces coordinatedpredicates to scope consistently relative to all duplicatedoperators embedded inside them.
This rule could be treated asa heuristic rather than as a constraint, but the rule does seem tobe absolute.In contrast, there is a general, but not absolute,preference for "symmetric" interpretations whenevercoordinated expressions contain similar but not identical pairsof operators.
For example, in (19) one could imagine a contextin which it is made clear that Sue, but not Mary, has aparticular hat in mind and in (20) i t  is possible, though veryimprobable, that the two indefinites have different functionaldependencies.
(19) John (knows that Sue wants) and (thinks that Mary hopes)to buy a new hat(20) Mary read a story to each child or told a story to eachchildAt present, the program does not adequately handle thispreference for symmetric readings, which requires somenon-local heuristic knowledge.REDUNDANT READINGSA test is made for logically redundant readings wheneveran unscoped operator is about to be positioned (applied to aclausal expression).
A reading is considered to be redundant iftwo commutative operators are applied consecutively and thesuffix of the outer operator is greater than that of the inner one.
(Suffixes are attached to words by the parser to mark theirposition in the original sentence).
If one of the operators is acoordinator the criterion used is that the quantifier shouldscope inside the coordinator.
Readings will also be removed ifthey contain an ordering of a pair of operators which has ascoping weight less than a preset parameter.SCOPING WEIGHTSIn order to quantify scoping preferences, we associate a"scoping weight", a value between 0 and 1, with each pair ofinteracting operators.
The weight indicates the preference forthe reading in which the second operator (in surface order)scopes outside the first one.
For example, the value 0.9indicates a strong preference for the reading in which thesecond operator takes wide scope, a preference which might,on occasion, be overridden by pragmatics.
The weightassociated with the reverse ordering will automatically be 0.1.The value 0.5 indicates an equal preference for both scopeorderings in a pragmatically neutral context.
The followingexamples illustrate how the scoping weights are used.
(21) Some person on each team was injured .9(22) Some person playing on each team was injured .5(23) Some person who plays on each team was injured .02As the scoping weights indicate, the ability of the embeddedquantifier each team to widen scope over some persondecreases as the embedding phrase changes from aprepositional phrase (21) to a verb phrase (22) to a full clause(23).
This "embedding hierarchy" was pointed out by van Lehn(1978) and also holds for phrases serving as adverbials or asterms.The scoping weights used by the program have beenderived from the examination of a large number of sentencessuch as these.
An attempt was made to keep the sentences aspragmatically neutral as possible and to try to obtain adomain-independent weight for pairs of operators in a given"pattern", where a pattern is a combination of two operators ofgiven types and in a given structural relation to one another.Although the data reflect the intuitve judgements of the author,it is likely that there would be a good general agreement incases in which there is a strong preference for one ordering.
Inother cases, the need to include pragmatic knowldege would bemore important.
Some consideration was also given to theempirical data on scoping preferences described previously(eg.
Ioup 1975, van Lehn 1978, Gil 1982).Given that we can determine scoping weights for pairs ofoperators, it is still necessary to combine these to arrive at anoverall rating of a reading.
This involves two separateproblems: how to select pairs of operators for comparison andthen how to combine the weights obtained.
There appears to beno obvious solution to either of these problems.
There are atleast three different choices which need to be made whenpicking a strategy for selecting pairs of operators forcomparison, none of which is clearcut.
For example, if asentence contains three quantifiers at the same level, such as asubject and two objects, should all three pairs of quantifiers becompared or should the results of each comparison made beused to reduce the number of further comparisons needed?There is also no obviou.s way to combine the scopingweights obtained.
A probabilistic treatment is not feasible, inpart because different readings of a sentence may involvedifferent numbers of comparisons.
The simplest method is toorder the readings according to their average scoping weightand this appears to give quite good results.
The majordrawback to this method is that it tends to smooth out theeffect of very low individual weights.
However, there are waysto minimize this problem.
At present, a parameter is used tospecify the minimal acceptable scoping weight so that readingswith very low pairwise orderings can be removed.Alternatively, readings could be tagged with their lowestweights and some readings later be set aside or some morecomplex function could be used for combining the scopingweights.
These problems are discussed in Hurum (1987).HEURISTICS BASED ON LEXICAL TYPESThe domain-independent heuristics are based on twotypes of information: the lexical type of each operator andstructural relations between pairs of operators.
Some heuristicsare def'med for individual exical types, such as each, some andor, and others for classes of individual types, such as universalor existential quantifiers.
Most of the heuristics used by theprogram are stored in a table of scoping weights.
To minimizethe amount of data, universal and existential quantifiers aresometimes represented by the "standards" each and some and60other members of these classes are then related to the standardsby ratios.
Most, but not all, of the heuristics described here arecurrently being used by the program.The universal quantifiers may be arranged in thehierarchy each > every > all in terms of the tendency to tak~wide scope.
This hierarchy has been mentioned by both Ioupand van Lehn and a number of people have commented thatthe function of each in English may partly be to indicate thedistributive (ie.
wide scope) reading.
Universal quantifiers havea surpringly marked tendency to scope inside a negation(24-26) given their usual tendency, with the exception of both,to take wide scope:(24) All people aren't happy(25) John didn't win every race(26) John didn't win both races.6.2.1Non-universal quantifiers in the subject position of a negatedsentence seldom scope inside the negation.Few and no have very little ability to widen scope over apreceding operator but, in contrast, have a strong tendency totrap subsequent operators.
Therefore, a distinction eeds to bemade between the ability to widen scope over a precedingoperator and to trap subsequent operators.
The followingexamples show the scoping of few and no relative toquantifiers (27,28), the negation operator (29) and temporaladverbs (30).
By comparison, some does not create a strongtrap for always (31).
(27) Nobody read every article(28) Someone read no articles.02.02(29) Few people weren't surprised .01(30) Few people always come late(31) Someone always comes late.01.5There appear to be some sentences, typically containingtwo no or few quantifiers, which are used in a sense whichdoes not appear to correspond to any straightforward orderingof the quantifiers.
Instead, the total quantity of predicationsbeing made seems to be emphasized.
An example is given in(35).
One possible way of representing such sentences mightbe to use branching quantification (Hintikka 1974).
(35) Few boys kissed few girlsSentences containing operators which create negatedcontexts (eg.
few, no, not, never) are often disambiguated bythe presence of any, ever ("at any time") or neither-nor.
Forexample, after few or no the adverb sometimes is usuallyreplaced by ever (32,33) and the wide-scope reading of neverin (34) is best obtained by replacing the or with and or byusing neither-nor and ever (35).
(32) ?Few people sometimes come late(33) Few people ever come late.1.0(34) (Either) John or Bill never comes late(35) Neither John nor Bill ever comes late.05.0The singular indefinite a is quite consistently more likelythan some to take narrow scope.
For example, it would bemore natural to use (36) and (38) than (37) and (39) to indicatethe narrow scope existential reading.
Also, (40) is acceptablebut (41) is not.
(The scoping weights given for (40) and (41)have not been adjusted to take into account he effect of themodifier different).
(36) Each person grabbed a chair .3(37) Each person grabbed some chair .5(38) John didn't find a chair .3(39) John didn't find some chair .6(40) A different person brought each chair (.7)(41) *Some different person brought each chair (.5)The scoping of sentences containing the determiner amay be complicated by the presence of generic interpretations.For example, in (42) the non-specific reading could beobtained either by giving never wide scope or by treating aguest as a quasi-universal quantifier (derived from the genericinterpretation via meaning postulates).
Assuming that thegeneric reading is present, the standard interpretation i whichnever has wide scope must be treated as being either absent orlogically redundant.
(This is an oversimplified view; someattempts are currently being made to give a uniforminterpretation to indefinites which would avoid this problem ofredundancy).
A somewhat similar problem arises whenindefinites which may have generic interpretations are presentinside the antecedent clause of an if-then sentence (as in certaindonkey sentences).
Note that there is no comparable readingwhen a is replaced by some, which does not receive a genericinterpretation (43).
(42) An old sailor never gets seasick(43) Some old sailor never gets seasick.5?.01Plural indefinites can be placed in an approximatehierarchy in terms of their ability to receive collectiveinterpretations: some > three > several > many.
This correlateswith their ability to be given "specific" interpretations andtherefore with their ability to widen scope from strong clausalscope traps (44,45) and perhaps also, to a lesser extent, relativeto the negation operator (46,47).
The scoping weights shownare associated with the scoping of the existentially quantifiedcollections.
(44) If three people show up then I will come(45) If many people show up then I will come.3.05(46) John didn't find three chairs(47) John didn't find many chairs.4.2Plural indefinites may have implicit universal partitivesassociated with them (see Hurum & Schubert 1986) and, whenpresent, these must be scoped separately.
While the existential61quantifiers associated with indefinites are free to scope to anyposition, in the absence of pragmatic information, there areconsiderable restrictions on the ability of plural indefinites todistribute over preceding operators.
For example, pluralindefinites in the object position almost never distribute overquantifiers in the subject position unless preceded by anexplicit partitive.HEURISTICS BASED ON STRUCTURAL RELATIONSScoping preferences are strongly influenced by"structural relations", that is, the relations between pairs ofoperators in the initial logical translations (or, approximately,in the parse tree).
Structural relations may be loosely classifiedas "horizontal", an example being the subject-object relation,or "vertical", an example being the relation between a nounphrase determiner and an operator inside the nouncomplement.
Although this distinction is not always clearcut,the scoping program makes considerable use of it and separateheuristics are used for horizontal and vertical relations.As a general rule in English, scope order tends to followsurface order, although there axe some exceptions uch as inthe case of postposed adverbials.
The effect of surface order isstrengthened considerably by "shifting", where shifting is usedhere in a general sense to include the preposing of adverbials,topicaiization and perhaps the dative shift.
For example, it ismuch more likely that (48) refers to a different set of peopleeach year than (49) and the distributive reading is more likelyin (50) than in (51).
(48) Every year many people visit Europe(49) Many people visit Europe every year.02.5(50) Every sailor gave flowers to two girls(51) To two girls, every sailor gave flowersIt should be pointed out that Ioup (1975) has presentedevidence that in a wide range of languages "grammaticalfunction" (eg.
subject, direct object .
.
.
.  )
may be a moreimportant determiner of scope than surface order.
(Ioupconsiders "topic" to be a grammatical category rather than aresult of shifting.)
It happens that in English there is a closecorrelation between surface order and scope order.
However, itwould always be possible, if necessary, to reinterpret some ofthe heuristics shown here in terms of grammatical relationsrather than in terms of surface order.The effect of surface order and shifting also appears tohold for temporal adverbs, although the interaction ofquantifiers with such adverbs can sometimes be quite complex.In the case of negated quantifiers (eg.
no, few) and not theeffect of surface order is again quite decisive, with theexception of certain postposed adverbs (see below):(52) Often, nobody is late for lunch(53) Nobody is often late for lunch.01.0The effect of shifting can also be seen with existentialquantifiers.
The following examples how the scoping of theexistential quantifier associated with many relative to often inpreposed, medial and postposed positions.
The effect of adverbplacement is clear, although the scoping of postposed adverbswill be radically different depending on such factors as thepronounciation or the presence or absence of a comma (56,57).
(54) Often, many people are late for lunch(55) Many people are often late for lunch(56) Many people are late for lunch often(57) Many people axe late for lunch, often.02.5.1.98The principal ambiguity in these sentences is related towhether or not the same group of people is being referred to ineach situation (we may loosely interpret often as quantifyingover instances of a type of situation, in this case a lunchsetting).
This ambiguity can be represented by scoping theexistential quantifier associated with many relative to often.
Itis very unlikely that we would give many wide scope in (54)although this would be more likely with indefinites which canmore easily receive specific interpretations, such as some, threeand several.There is also an optional universal partitive associatedwith plural indefinites such as many and this must also bescoped.
The interaction of universal quantifiers with temporaladverbs involves some quite subtle ambiguities which axerelated to whether or not all members of some collection axeinvolved in the same situation.
However, the effect of surfaceposition is still notable:(58) Often, everyone is late for lunch(59) Everyone is often late for lunch.02.5Different types of embedding construct form quiteconsistent traps for quantifiers and other unscoped operators.Operators inside prepositional phrases generally widen scopeover the head quantifier, those inside full clauses almost neverdo (with the exception of specific indefinites) and those insidebare verb phrases have an intermediate ndency to do so (see(21)-(23)).
Verb phrases serving as noun complements formconsiderably weaker traps than do those serving asnominalized arguments.
Preposed antecedent clauses ofconnective sentences uch as if-then sentences appear to formabsolute traps for distributive quantifiers, in contrast toconsequent or postposed antecedent clauses, and for connectiveclauses in general the ordering of the antecedent andconsequent clauses needs to be considered.The effect of structural relations on the scoping ofquantifiers generally holds for coordinators as well.
Someexamples will illustrate the effect of the surface position of NPcoordinators relative to negation (60,61) and to quantifiers(62,63).
The presence of either, by emphasizing thedisjunction, tends to widen the scope of or somewhat.
(60) (Either) Sue or Mary didn't dance with John .2(61) John didn't dance with Sue or Mary .2(62) Few people danced with Sue or Mary .2(63) (Either) Sue or Mary danced with few people .262Verb coordinators usually scope inside quantifiers in thesubject and object positions.
For quantifiers in the subjectposition this is clearly a structural constraint; in both (64) and(65) the subject presumably scopes outside the coordinator andit is difficult to reverse this ordering by passivization or byreplacing the subject with someone different.
By  contrast, theexamples how that the seoping of a direct object relative to averb coordinator is largely dependent on pragmaties.
(64) Someone wrote and mailed a letter(65) Someone wrote and received a letterHowever, there is probably some bias, which might beconsidered structural, for scoping an object outside a verbcoordinator, and this bias is stronger for prepositional objectsand for some (66).
It is always possible for or to take widescope, both relative to subject and object quantifiers, althoughthe latter is more likely (67,68).
This is the "speaker'suncertainty" reading.
Although always present, it is particularlydifficult to get this reading with few or no in the objectposition.
(66) John drove and flew to some resort .8(67) John flew or drove to each resort(68) Each person drove or flew to the resort.7.1The interaction of plural quantifiers with verbconjunction is more complex and we make a distinctionbetween primary and secondary scope dependencies: theformer involves the scoping of the collection formed from theplural quantifier and the latter the details of the predications ofindividual members of the collection.
For example, in (69)there is presumably only one set of two people, meaning thatthe collection formed from the subject scopes outside thecoordinator.
The details of the individual predications can bespecified later.
In general, some members of the set might beinvolved in both predications and some in just one.
This typeof interaction between sets is similar to that between two pluralquantifiers.
The conjoined subject in (70) could also intitiallybe treated as a collection, or the ambiguity might in this casebe handled irectly by the parser.
(69) Two different people painted and redecorated theapartment(70) John and Fred, respectively, fixed and upholstered thechairThe scoping of noun coordinators i somewhat similar tothat of verb coordinators, although there is evidence that thewide scope and reading is elliptical for a NP coordination andshould therfore be handled by the parser.
Therefore, thescoping weights for (71)-(74) have been placed in brackets.The "scoping" of and relative to a singular indefinite is againlargely dependent on pragmatics (71,72), although there isprobably a statistical bias in favour of the wide scope(elliptical) and reading.
Again, this reading is less likely whena is replaced with (singular) some.
(71) A man and woman came to help(72) A friend and colleague came to help(.5)(.5)Plural indefinites also display two levels of interactionwith coordinated nouns.
The initial scope (or syntactic)ambiguities of (73) and (74) again are related to whether thereis one collection or two: the latter (meaning a wide scope and)is pragmatically more likely in (73) simply because wewouldn't use this wording to refer to a man and a woman.
Thedetails of applying the predicates to members of the collectioncan again be postponed until later.
(A scoping program clearlyneeds to have some specialized knowledge for handlinginteractions between sets of objects and predicates.
)(73) Two men and women arrived(74) Twenty men and women arrived(.5)(.5)Again, or tends to be trapped (75) and the trap isespecially strong with no and few (76).
(75) Every freshman or sophomore finished the course .2(76) Few freshmen or sophomores finished the course .05Coordinators are treated as forming complete scope trapsexcept for existential quantifiers and or.
This useful ruleremoves the three unwanted readings of (77) in which either orboth of the universal quantifiers take wide scope.
It mayprevent he anaphoric binding of pronouns, as in (78), but thisis part of a more general problem for which there is nosatisfactory theory at the moment (see Lepore & Garson 1983;Schubert & Pelletier 1987a,1987b; Hobbs & Shieber 1987).
(77) Every man or every woman arrived late(78) Every man or some friend of his arrived lateLike universal quantifiers, and tends to be trapped byclausal embedding whereas or, though less easily thanexistential quantifiers, can generally widen scope from strongscope traps such as "scope islands".
For example, there is noreading of (79) in which and scopes outside someone, that is inwhich there is a different person for Sue and Mary, but in (80)there is a reading, probably the preferred one, in which or mustscope outside the nested clause, meaning that each person haseither heard that his aunt or that his uncle is arriving.
There isalso a reading of (80), perhaps not obvious at first, in which orhas maximally wide scope, meaning that the speaker is notsure whether it was his aunt or his uncle that each person heardwas arriving.
(79) Someone heard the news that Sue and Mary were arriving(80) Each person heard the news that his aunt or his uncle wasarrivingIMPLEMENTATION OF HEURISTICSEach formula (given an input list of sentential formulas)is traversed in a bottom-up left-to-right order with differenttypes of expression, such as infix, prefix and coordinatedexpressions, being scoped by separate procedures.
As eachunscoped operator is encountered, its structural category isstored on its property list and this information is later used to63determine the structural relation between a given pair ofoperators.
Vertical relations are passed as parameters tosubordinate procedures; in the case of if-then sentences theparameters also contain information about the position andtype of clause being scoped (eg.
"preposed antecedent clause").The scoping weight for a pair of operators can then bedetermined from a table of weights which is indexed accordingto structural relations and operator types.
The table has beenkept as small as possible by the use of default values and"standard" operator types (such as some and each forexistential and universal quantifiers).
Although the use of atable of weights does not in itself have much psychologicalplausibility, the rules on which the table is based, such as thosedescribed above, are generally quite simple and it is hoped thatrules such as these can eventually be incorporated into a morecomprehensive model of the grammatical biases which underlyscope preferences.PRAGMATICSThe most obvious place to try to combine pragmatic anddomain-independent information is at the level of determiningthe pairwise scoping weights.
The problem of how theseweights should then be combined still remains but thisapproach does seem to be worth pursuing.
Since properlyapplied pragmatic knowledge will often result in strong, if notabsolute, preferences for certain scope orderings, the chancesof selecting the best overall reading of a sentence will beimproved when pragmatic heuristics are added.
The ability ofpragmatic knowledge to veto certain scope orderings can quiteeasily be implemented by setting the appropriate scopingweight below the value of the rain-weight parameter which willautomatically disallow any readings containing such orderings.CONCLUSIONThis paper has described some features of a programdesigned to handle scope ambiguities in English.
Some of themore problematic issues which were encountered uring thedesigning of the program were selected for discussion: thechoice of logical representation, the seeping of coordinatedexpressions, the choice of a strategy for selecting preferredscope orderings and the determination of a set ofdomain-independent heuristics.
The program is currently beingextended to include a wider range of lexical types and inputexpressions and the heuristics are being improved.
Followingthis, it is hoped to incorporate some simple types of domain-and discourse-dependent knowledge into the program, inparticular knowledge about expected relations among objectsin a given domain and a simple discourse focus structure.The selection of preferred scope orderings depends onthe complex interaction of linguistic and context-dependentknowldege.
It would be a considerable advantage to be able tofactor out the contributions of different types of knowledgerequired and then at some later time to combine them.
Oneconclusion of this work is that there is a body of largelydomain-independent k owledge which can play an important,and at times decisive, role in the disambiguation of scope.Such knowledge is most useful when it indicates a very strongor absolute preference for one reading.Absolute preferences typically occur with operators uchas any or both and with distributive quantifiers or and insidestrong clausal trap or inside a coordinator.
Very strongpreferences may occur with operators uch as few, no or each,with preposed or topicalized operators and with operatorsinside prepositional phrases.
When the domain-independentheuristics do not provide a strong preference for one reading,they may still serve as a useful guide guide for the laterapplication of pragmatic knowledge.
This is commonly thecase when indefinites are present, as the "specificity" ofindefinites is mainly context-dependent.A number of problems have not been discussed herebecause they remain unresolved.
These include: the scoping ofquantifiers relative to tense and opaque operators, the logicalrepresentation and scoping of generics, the treatment ofpronouns not embedded within their quantifier antecedents,non-local problems such as the preference for "symmetric"readings, the use of stray words, such as together and both (asan adverb), which provide important clues for preferred scoperelations and the difficult problem of combining linguistic andcontext-dependent heuristic knowledge.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSI would like to thank Dr. Len Schubert for originallysuggesting this project and for his advice and many helpfulcomments throughout the course of this work.
I would also liketo thank the members of my thesis committee and the membersof the Logical Grammar Study Group at the University ofAlberta for their comments on parts of this work.
This workwas supported in part by NSERC Operating Grant A8818.REFERENCESDahl, V. (1979), "Quantification i  a Three-V~.lued Logic forNatural Language Question-Answering Systems",Proceedings of the Sixth International Joint Conference forArtificial Intelligence, 182-187.Ene, M. (1981), Tense Without Scope: An Analysis of Nouns asIndexicals, unpublished Ph.D. Dissertation (University ofWisconsin, Madison).Fodor, J.D.
(1976), The Linguistic Description of OpaqueContexts, Ph.D. Dissertation, available from IndianaUniversity Linguistics Club.Gil, D. (1982), "Quantifier Scope, Linguistic Variation, andNatural Language Semantics", Linguistics and Philosophy5, 421-472.Hintikka, 1.
(1974), "Quantification vs. Quantification Theory",Linguistic Inquiry 5, 153-177.Hobbs, J.R. (1983), "An Improper Treatment of Quantificationin Ordinary English", Proceedings of the Twenty-FirstAnnual Meeting of the Association for ComputaionalLinguistics, 57-63.64Hobbs, J.R. & S.M.
Shieber (1987), "An Algorithm forGenerating Quantifier Scopings", (In preparation).Hurum, S. (1987), Quantifier Scoping in Initial LogicalTranslations of English Sentences, M.Sc.
thesis, Universityof Alberta, 1-242.Hurum, S. & L.K.
Schubert (1986), "Two Types of QuantifierScoping", Proceedings of the Sixth Canadian Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence", 39-43.Ioup, G. (1975), "Some Universals for Quantifier Scope", inJ.P.
Kimball (ed.
), Syntax and Semantics, Vol.
4, (NewYork: Academic Press), 37-58.Lepore, E. & J. Garson (1983), "Pronouns andQuantifier-Scope in English", Journal of PhilosophicalLogic 12, 327-358.McCord, M.C.
(1981), "Focalizers, the Scoping Problem andSemantic Interpretation Rules in Logic Grammars",Proceedings of the International Workshop on LogicProgramming for Expert Systems, Logicon, (WoodlandHills).Saarinen, E. (1980), "Quantifier Phrases are (at Least) FiveWays Ambiguous in Intensional Contexts", in F.
Heny(ed.
), Ambiguities in lntensional Contexts, (Dordrecht:Reidel), 1-45.Saint-Dizier, P. (1985), "Handling Quantifier ScopeAmbiguities in a Semantic Representation of NaturalLanguage Sentences", in V. Dahl & P. Saint-Dizier (eds.
),Natural Language Understanding and LogicProgramming, (North-holland), 49-63.Schubert, L.K.
& F.J. Pelletier (1982), "From English to Logic:Context-Free Computation of 'Conventional' LogicalTranslation", American Journal of ComputationalLinguistics 8, 26-44.
Reprinted (with corrections) in B.J.Grosz, K. Sparck-Jones & B.L.
Webber (eds.
), Readings inNatural Language Processing, (Los Altos: MorganKaufman), 1986.Schubert, L.K.
& F.J. Pelletier (1987a), "Problems in theRepresentation of the Logical Form of Generics, Pluralsand Mass Nouns", in E. Lepore (ed.
), New Directions inSemantics, (Academic Press).Schubert, L.K.
& F.J. Pelletier (1987b), "Generically Speaking,With Remarks on the Interpretation of Pronouns andTenses".
To appear in G. Chierchia, B. Partee & R.
Turner(eds.
), Property Theory, Type Theory, and Semantics,(Dordrecht: Reidel).Van Lehn, K. (1978), Determining the Scope of EnglishQuantifiers, MIT Artificial Intelligence LaboratoryTechnical Report AI-TR-483, 1-123.Warren, D.H.D.
& F.C.N.
Pereira (1982), "An Efficient EasilyAdaptable System for Interpreting Natural LanguageQueries", American Journal of Computational Linguistics8, 110-119.Woods, W.A.
(1978), "Semantics and Quantification i NaturalLanguage Question Answering", Advances in Computers,vol.
17, (New York: Academic Press), 1-87.APPENDIX: OL~I'PL~I " FROM SCOPING PROGRAMSentence 1(i (q alll man2)(f PRES (p want3 (TAU2 (f INrF (p marry4 (c or6 Peggy5 Sue"/)))))))l. The average weight is 0.7 based on t comparison(q allly5(i y5 man2)(i y5(f PRES(p want3(TAU2(I yl0(i (i yI0 (f EN'F (p marry4 Peggy5)))or6(i yl0 (f L\'F (p marry4 Sue7))))))))))2.
The average weight is 0.5 based on 2 comparisons(q allty5(i y5 man2)(i (i y5 (f PRES (p want3 (TAU2 (f 1ANF (p marry4 Peggy5))))))or6(i y5 (f PRES (p want3 (TAU2 (f EN'F (p marry4 Sue7))))))))3.
The average weight is 0.3 based on 2 comparisons(i (q allly5(i y5 man2)(i y5 (f PRES (p want3 (TAU2 (f IN'F (p marry4 Peggy5)))))))or6(q allly5(i y5 man2)(i y5 (f PRES (p want3 (TAU2 (f L-NF (p marry4 Sue*'/))))))))time used = 308 msecs.Sentence 2(i M'ary l(c or4(f PAST (p read3 (q some6 story7) (q each8 child9)))(f PAST (p tell5 (q some6 story7) (q each8 child9)))))1.
The average weight is 0.82 based on 2 comparisons(i (q each8y17(i y17 child9)(q some6 yl5 (i yl5 story7) (i Maryl (f PAST (p read3 y15 yl7)))))or4(q each8yl7(i y17 child9)(q some6 yl5 (i y15 story7) (i Maryl (f PAST (p tell5 y15 y17))))))2.
The average weight is 0.67 based on 2 comparisons(i (q some6yl5(i y15 story7)(q each8 y17 (i y17 child9) (i Maryl (f I'AST (p read3 yl5 y17)))))or4(q some6y15(i yl5 story7)(q each8 yl7 (i y17 child9) (i Maryl (f PAST (p tell5 y15 y17))))))time used = 386 msecs.65
