Automat ic  Generat ion of Mu l t imoda l  Weather  Repor ts  from DatasetsStephan M. Kerpedjiev*Institute of MathematicsB1.8, Acad.
G. Bonchev Street1113 Sofia, BulgariaAbstractWeather reports are created in various modes - -natural language text, specialized language text,tables and maps.
The system presented allows theuser to define his needs of weather information andrequirements on the form of presentation.
Thesystem analyzes a dataset obtained through spe-cific procedures of forecasting or observation, plansthe product according to the user requirementsand generates its components.
Special emphasis isplaced on the coherence of the report by investigat-ing the rhetorical structures observed in this kindof text and the coordination between a map and atext specifying it.
The method of generation is aknowledge-based one with three types of knowledgeemployed in the system - terminological, rhetori-cal and grammatical.
A prototype has been imple-mented and tested with original datasets.1 Int roduct ionThe generation of information products stepped intoa new phase characterized by the intensive applicationof artificial intelligence, computational linguistics andother modern information technologies.
Currently, var-ious data are collected into databases and specific pro-cedures are applied for processing those data into fore-casts, analyses, surveys and other types of informationproducts.
Usually, those products are in numerical formwhich is unsuitable for the general audience and evenfor many specialists.
Therefore this data has to be con-verted into a human-oriented mode such as natural lan-guage (NL) text, tables, maps, diagrams.
The automaticconversion requires formalizing the process - -  a problemwhich nowadays cannot be attacked successfully exceptby gathering, coupling and employing various types ofknowledge - -  common sense, about the subject domain,grammatical, etc.In this paper, we report on a study of the automaticgeneration of multimodal weather eports from observedor predicted data.
This particular problem is significantboth from a practical point of view (various weather e-ports are to be made every day in many weather cen-ters all over the world) and for its scientific aspects (itmanifests the basic features of the generation of verbal*This work has been partially supported by the Ministry ofEducation and Science and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences.reports from data).
Our work relates closely to three ar-eas: NL generation, multimodal documents and weatherinformation processing.The communicative act performed by the system is thedescription of an observed or predicted situation.
Otherworks that consider analogous communicative acts are(Davey, 1979) on the description of tic-tac-toe games,(Kukieh, 1983) on the generation of market reports,(Andr~ el al., 1988) about simultaneous commenting ona soccer game recorded as a sequence of digitized videoframes.
In our case the situation to be presented is codedinto a dataset obtained through routine procedures ofweather forecasting or observing.Our approach to NL generation follows the basic stepsas described by McDonald (1987), viz.
selection of thecontent portions that are to be communicated to theuser, planning the text by adoption of the most suitablerhetorical schemas, realizing the discourse plan as a sur-face structure and its rendering as a text.
The goal andthe context of the utterance are specified by the user to-gether with parameters concerning the precision of theinformation and the message length.
We place specialemphasis on the content production component whichscans the dataset and extracts assertions from it, as wellas on the rhetorical structures observed in weather re-ports.Recently an increasing interest has been observed inthe processing of multimodal documents, the researchbeing focused on the coordination between the differ-ent modalities (NL, graphics, video images, pointing).Some projects with intensive research in this area areXTRA (Algayer et al, 1989), COMET (Feiner and McK-eown, 1990), ALFresco (Stock, 1991).
To a large ex-tent this aspect of our project was inspired by the WIPproject (Wahlster el al., 1991) in which the coherence ofmUltimodal discourse is investigated and common senseknowledge is employed in the coordination between thetextual and the graphical components of instructions forthe use of domestic appliances.We consider the case of supplementing a weather mapwith a verbal note specifying those content portions thatcannot be presented on the map or whose graphical pre-sentations distort the original information.
The systemdiscovers uch deficiencies of the graphical presentationand generates a verbal comment on the map.There are various projects concerning the productionof weather reports, each of them setting specific goals48The RAREAS, RAREAS-2 and FoG series of systems(Bourbeau et al, 1990) developed by one of the mostsuccessful groups in weather report generation sharesmany concepts with the current project, the main differ-ences lying in the specification of the product and in themodality of the generated ocuments.
Thus the Cana-dian group deals exclusively with NL forecasts while ourproject considers the generation of multimodal reportsand employs diverse means of specifying what one needsand in what mode he wants to receive the information.Our previous work (Kerpedjiev, 1990; Kerepedjiev andNoncheva, 1990) concerns the conversion of weather fore-casts from textual form to weather maps or texts in an-other language.
This is a translation problem rather thana generation one.
Another feature that makes the previ-ous work different from the current one is the lack of co-ordination between the graphical and the textual parts.Finally, in this project we employ the knowledge-basedapproach which allows a higher degree of flexibility andeasy adoption to various types of products.2 Arch i tecture  of the systemThe architecture of the system is shown in Figure 1.
Theinitial data for the system are the dataset and a speci-fication of the final product prepared by the user in theform of a template.
The system works as follows:1.
The monitor interprets the template and succes-sively calls the scanner, the planner, the text ormap generator, and the formatter with parametersextracted from the template.2.
The scanner analyzes the dataset and extracts as-sertions about the weather situation.3.
The planner applies rhetorical and grammaticalknowledge to convert he extracted set of assertionsinto a surface structure or a map plan.4.
The text generator makes use of the lexicon to lin-earize the surface structure into a text; the mapgenerator creates a cartographical presentation fromthe map plan using the visual library.5.
The monitor evaluates the generated text againstparameters specified in the template (e.g.
length ofthe text), and if the result does not meet the require-ments of the user, re-activates the previous proces-sors with adjusted parameters for providing alterna-tive solutions.6.
The formatter assembles the product.3 Weather report analysisIn this section we describe the initial dataset, the asser-tions extracted from the dataset, and the form of thefinal product as well as its specification.3 .1 S t ructure  o f  the  in i t ia l  datasetThe initial dataset obtained through observations or nu-merical forecasting techniques is compiled in tabularTern l1nO1Og1C&1Know1edgeWeatherVerificationMethodsRhetoricalandGrammaticalKnowledgeLexiconVisualLibrary\[ Dataset 1Scanner )~ .
.
.
.
.I Assertion s \] Ml oPlanner )~ .
.
.
.
.Surface \] Map ~structure plan I1(Formatter )  .
.
.
.
.I Multimodal document \[ _Figure 1: The system architectureform with lines corresponding to the locations, columns- -  to the weather elements considered in the report, andsubcolumns - -  to the time instants to which the datarefer.
The locations are either the stations where datais collected or the nodes of a regular grid in which thenumerical forecast is computed.In our experiments we used weather data collectedthrough observations made at the main synoptic hours(00, 06, 12, 18 GMT) in 50 weather stations dispersedover the territory of Bulgaria.
Ten weather elements havebeen considered: cloud amount, precipitation type andamount, wind speed and direction, min and max tem-peratures, and the phenomena fog, frost, thunderstorm.3 .2  In termed iary  representat ionAn intermediary representation is necessary because theinitial dataset describes the weather in terms of a scien-tifically based model which may not meet the user con-ceptions.
It is intended to accommodate in a languageindependent form those facts that will be conveyed tothe user.What are the major differences between the initialdata and the intermediary representation?
Firstly, theypertain to different erritory and time models?
While thelocations in a dataset are weather stations or grid nodes,in the intermediary representation they are administra-tive and geographic areas known to the audience.
Thedataset contains data referring to time instants, whereasthe facts of the intermediary representation refer to partsof the day (such as morning) and whole days.
Hence, thefacts in the intermediary representation summarize theinitial data with respect o time and space?The second difference concerns the weather models.
Inaddition to the basic weather elements employed in the49initial dataset, the intermediary representation makesuse of some derived attributes.
So, the basic numericalquantities wind speed and precipitation amount are con-verted into qualitative characteristics - - wind strengthand precipitation intensity, respectively.
Particular ex-amples of other derived attributes are given in section 4.We call the facts from the intermediary representationassertions and denote them as quintuples:( w_attribut e, w_value, region, period, precision).The weather attribute and the weather value representthe goal of the assertion; the region and the time periodform its context; the last component denotes the preci-sion of the summarization both over time and space andin the case of facts with derived weather attributes.3.3 Structure of the final productThe final product is a natural or specialized languagetext, a table 1 and/or graphics.
The basic constructs ofthose modes are oriented towards the expression of as-sertions - -  the atomic content portions extracted fromthe dataset.
A NL sentence or clause, an icon placed ina certain position on the map, and a lexical or numericalweather value put in a cell of the weather table are allconstructs of this type.Figure 2 illustrates some modes.
For example, theassertion (cloud_amount, overcast, Nor_Bul, morn, high)expressible through the NL sentence "In the morning itwill be cloudy over North Bulgaria" is represented as aweather map (Figure 2d) and in the upper left cell ofthe weather table in Figure 2c.
Weather eports can bestructured in different ways.
The text in Figure 2b is anenumeration type of text with four independent segmentslabeled by the regions they pertain to, and the text inFigure 2a is a sample of a narrative text.3.4 Specif icat ion of the final productThe user's requirements on the final product are speci-fied by means of a template.
It defines the mode, goaland context of the product, as well as various parametersconcerning the precision of the information, the length ofthe message, and the style of text or map.
The templateconsists of two types of statements: tatements definingthe modal structure of the document and content pro-duction statements.There are four statements defining the modal struc-ture of the final product: narration, enumeration, tableand picture.
The general format of a modal structurestatement is given below:<modal_struct _st at ement>{<external_context>}<s equence_o~_content_product ion star ement s>.The following examples of statements are intended togenerate a product with the modal and content structureof the forecast in Figure 2.1 We should istinguish the standard tabular eport representingthe initial dataset from the user tables.nar ra t  ion{}text{clouds,precip, wind, phen, temp;Bul, whole_day ; precision=O.
6} ;enumeration{Nor_Bul, East_Bul, Sou_Bul ,West_Bul\]t ext{clouds, pre c ?p, wind, phen, t emp;whole_day; length= \[20,1003 } ;t able{Nor_Bul, East _Bul, Sou_Bul, West _Bul}value{clouds ; morn} ; value{clouds ; noon} ;value{clouds ; aftern} ; value{clouds ; even} ;picture{Nor_Bul, morn}map{clouds ; ; maxasrt=2}The content production statements are value, text an.map.
The first type of statement produces the lexicepresentation of a single weather value (e.g.
overcast, c15?C); the text production statement makes completsentences linked in a coherent text; and the map production statement generates a cartographical presentation (the assertions by placing icons of the particular weathevalues in certain positions of the map.
The format ofcontent production statement is as follows:<content_production_statement>{<goal>; <context>; <parameters>}The goal is the set of weather attributes in which thuser is interested.
The context contains the region anthe time period for which weather information shoulbe extracted.
The part of the context given as an e)ternal context in the modal structure statement makea heading of the corresponding section, and therefor(this context may not be explicitly mentioned in the rexThe parameters specifying the produced content portioare divided into three groups: precision rate, length anstyle of the message.The precision parameter defines the minimum precsion rate that must be guaranteed by the generated me~sage.
By specifying a high precision value, we rule otvague sentences like "it will be cloudy in some portiorof North Bulgaria" and force the system to retrieve molprecise assertions from the dataset.The parameters restricting the length of the messa~are of three types:?
maxasrt - determines the maximum number ofsertions generated for each attribute from the goa?
length - restricts the length of the final text by spe,ifying the minimum and maximum number of chaacters in it (applies to text production only);?
detail - specifies the level of detail of the pr(duced message on a three-element qualitative sca:{concise, normal, full}; concise detail implies th~only a summary information for each goal should kextracted; full detail makes the system extract conplete information; and normal detail produces a te)with a level of detail in between the two extremesThe style parameter defines the message language.
\]the case of text production, the language could be a sul50South and East Bulgaria willbe mostly sunny.
Cloudswith showers are expected inNorth Bulgaria and in theafternoon.
In East Bulgariathe wind will increase.
Hightemperatures 25-30?C.
Lowtemperatures 18 - 20?C.
(a) A narrative textNorth Bulgaria: Mostly cloudy weather with showers in the afternoon.
High tempera-tures 25?C.
Low temperatures 18?C.East Bulgaria: Clear in the morning and cloudy in the afternoon.
Increasing of the wind.High temperatures 25 - 270C, low temperatures - 20?C.South Bulgaria: Mostly sunny weather.
In the mountains the afternoon will be cloudywith showers.
High temperatures 27 - 32?C.
Lows 18 - 22?C, in the mountains 8- 12?C.West Bulgaria: Cloudy sky will prevail in North-West Bulgaria.
In South-East Bulgariamostly sunny weather but the afternoon will be cloudy with showers.
High temperatures25 - 30?C.
Low temperatures 18 - 20?C.
(b) An enumeration type of textRegion Cloud amountmorning noon afternoon eveningNorth Bulgaria ov pc pc crEast Bulgaria ov ov pc crSouth Bulgaria cr cr pc crWest Bulgaria pc pc pc pc(c) A weather table (cr - clear, pc -partly cloudy, ov - overcast)North Bulgaria in the morning:MA(d) A weather mapFigure 2: A multimodal weather documentset of a NL, a telegraphic type of language, or a special-purpose language conformed with specific users needs.
Inthe case of map production, the style determines whattypes of icons should be used and how the time will bepresented (through several maps, by explicitly indicatingthe time periods on the map, etc.).
For reference pur-poses, each style is given a unique identifier, e.g.
english,telegr-bul-report, avionic.4 Terminological knowledgeThe terminological knowledge-base (TKB) representsthe weather, territory and time models.The weather model consists of the set of weather at-tributes, their domains, relations between some domains,and rules for calculation of derived attributes.
So thequalitative weather element wind strength with a five-element ordered domain is calculated from the numericalbasic attr ibute wind speed by means of the rule:calm if w_speed E \[0, 2\]light if w_speed E \[3, 6\]w_strength = moderate if w_speed E \[7, 14\]strong if w_speed E \[15, 20\]gale if w_speed > 20The derived weather attr ibute cloud change with a four-element nominal scale is calculated by means of a rulebased on the properties mouotonicity and amplitude ofthe basic attr ibute cloud amount with a three-elementordered scale {clear, partly_cloudy, overcast}.
Similarrules allow the system to calculate summary weatherattributes.
For example, the clouds attr ibute unifiesthe domains of the attributes cloud amount and cloudchange into the domain {clear, partly_cloudy, overcast,clouds_increase, clouds_decrease, variable}.Two weather values Vl and v2 are considered related ifthey represent co-occurring weather characteristics (e.g.overcast and rain) and opposite if the characteristics areassociated as contrary (e.g.
clear and overcast).
Thetwo relations are defined in the TKB by means of thepredicates related(v1, v2) and opposite(v1, v2).The territory model represents the set of regions, theircarriers and certain logical links between them.
Thefunction carrier(r) returns the set of stations that be-long to r, thereby allowing us to treat the regions assets.
The predicate path(rl,r2,...,r,~) indicates thatthere is a path starting from region rl,  passing throughr2, .
.
.
,  r,~_l, and reaching rn.The time model defines the time periods as inter-vals of time instants through the functions begin(t) andend(t).
Two relations between time periods supportedby the TKB are partial order (tt < t2 iff end(tl) ~_begin(t2)) and inclusion (tl C t2 iff \[begin(tl), end(t1)\] C\[begin(t2), end(t 2)\])-The relations between weather values, regions andtime periods are employed in the selection of rhetoricalschemas (cf.
section 6).515 Scanning the datasetThe scanner determines the content portions of the mes-sage by computing relevant assertions from the dataset.The monitor calls it with two types of queries specifyingthe goal (a single weather attribute), the context anda parameter concerning either the precision rate or themaximum number of assertions to be produced:scanp(clouds, Bul, whole day, 0.8)scana(clouds, Bul, whole_day, 3)The first query makes the scanner extract assertionsabout the clouds attribute applied to Bulgaria and thewhole day, and with a precision rate greater than or equalto 0.8.
The second query restricts the maximum numberof assertions that should be extracted to three.The scanning is carried out in three steps: generationof a full set of assertions, pruning the full set of assertionsand selection of the final set of assertions.In the first step, the scanner applies weather verifica-tion techniques (Kerpedjiev and Ivanov, 1991) to gen-erate an assertion for each context that belongs to thequery context.
Such an assertion contains the weathervalue that approximates the data subset correspondingto that context with the highest precision rate.In order to avoid a combinatorial explosion during theselection, the set of assertions is pruned by removing allassertions that can be inferred from other assertions.
(Anassertion aa can be inferred from a2 if both assertionsconvey the same weather value, but aa relates to a sub-context of a2 and its precision rate does not excede thatof a~.)
The average reduction rate of the pruning is 70%.The selection of a combination of assertions is firstmade independently for each weather value of the goal at-tribute.
A combination of two assertions (w, v, rl, t l ,p l )and (w, v, r2, t2, P2) is evaluated by means of the formulamin(pl,p2, 1 -p~, 1 -p" )  where p' and p" are the pre-cision rates of the assertions (w, v, r - rl - r2, t ,p ~) and(w, v, rl-q-r2, t--t l  --t2, p"), respectively, r and t being thequery context.
Then the scanner selects the most precisecombinations for the different weather values and returnsthem as a response to the query.6 P lanning the reportThe planner assimilates a set of assertions into a surfacetext structure or a map plan.
Since planning is essen-tially a process of arranging the information in a coherentway, we will consider at first the coherence in weather e-ports and then will elaborate the planning techniques.6 .1  CoherenceCoherence can be ensured for the portions created onlyby the text production and map production statementssince the modal structure statements combine the con-stituent parts mechanically without caring for the con-sistency between them.Coherence of a text portion is achieved by selecting arhetorical schema that suits best the current set of asser-tions.
The main vehicle for ensuring proper organizationof the text content is the employment of existing rela-tions in the TKB.
Indeed, those links represent commonassociations and orderings of the objects, and followingany of them while reading or hearing the text will en-able the user to assimilate the information easily withminimum cognitive effort.Based on the analysis of a number of textual weatherforecasts and reports, we have extracted and collectedseven types of rhetorical schemas:Presentation by weather attributes.
An assertion abouta given attribute cannot interpose a sequence of as-sertions concerning another attribute.From a summary to details.
An assertion with a contextwhich includes the context of another assertion isconveyed before the second assertion.Temporal progression.
The assertions are ordered by thesuccessive time intervals they pertain to.Spatial progression.
The assertions are arranged in sucha way that their regions form a conceptually existingpath.Coupling related values.
Assertions with related valuesand intersecting contexts are rendered in a group.Contrast.
Two assertions with opposite values are con-veyed together to contrast with each other.Presentation by weather values.
The assertions aboutgiven attribute with an ordered domain are con-veyed in successive groups relating to the particulalweather values.The problem of supplementing a graphical portior(created by the map production statement) with averbal comment may arise when the situation presented oithe map is dynamic, imprecise or uncertain.
Due to th(lack of proper graphical means of expression for suctproperties, a text has tobe  created that specifies the information available on the map.
The following exampl,illustrates the problem.Suppose that the assertion (phen, fog, Nor_Bul, mornhigh) has to be shown on a map created for the whol,day.
A presentation with the pictograph for fog place(in one or more positions dispersed uniformly over th,region specified may prove misleading because the important information about the time period is absent.
T,resume the correctness of the map the following concistext message should be created:"The fog in North Bulgaria will clear by noon.
"It consists of the reference part "the fog in North Bu\]garia" and the specification part "will clear by noon"The reference part identifies the phenomenon througelements expressed on tile map while the specificatiopart conveys the missing or distorted elements.526.2 Text  p lann ingThe conversion of a set of assertions into a surface struc-ture poses two main problems:?
How to find the most suitable rhetorical structureof the text??
How to realize this structure into the surface struc-ture of cohesive sentences?We employed rhetorical and grammatical knowledge m-bedded in rules to cope with those problems.
For eachrhetorical schema, a rule is formulated whose conditionpart evaluates how well the set of assertions is stratifiedby the corresponding schema.
For example, we regarda set of assertions as well stratified by a path of regionsif all assertions pertain to the same attribute and timeperiod and there exists a one-to-one correspondence b -tween the regions of the path and the regions of the as-sertions, or a set of assertions is well stratified chrono-logically if all assertions pertain to the same region andthere is no overlap between their time periods.Since the conditions of the "temporal progression"and "spatial progression" rhetorical schemas as describedabove are too rigid and so they are rarely satisfied by theassertions produced by the scanner, we loosened them byallowing partial instead of full coincidence between theregions.
The grade of similarity between two regions rland r~ is defined by the formula:learrier(r~ ) n carrier( r~)ld( r l ,  = 1 - uand they are considered coincident if d(rl, r2) > 0.7.Thus the set of three assertions concerning the regions"the lowlands of West Bulgaria", "Central Bulgaria" and"the Black sea coast" can be successfully mapped outalong the path "West Bulgaria", "Central Bulgaria","East Bulgaria".There are certain priorities among the rhetoricalschemas.
The schemas "presentation by attributes" and"coupling related values" have priority over the others;the schema "from a summary to details" has priority overthe temporal and spatial progressions, etc.
A rule witha higher priority than another is applied first, and onlyif it fails, then the second rule is tried.The action part of the chosen rule breaks the set ofassertions into a chain of chunks.
The link betweentwo chunks represents the conversational move that takesplace when the discourse passes from the source to thetarget chunk.
Then each chunk is broken down into asubchain, and so on until a hierarchical discourse struc-ture is obtained, at the terminal nodes of which are theassertions of the initial set (cf.
Figure 3b).The conversion into a surface structure proceeds byapplying the rules embedding the grammatical knowl-edge.
They analyze the discourse structure by means ofpatterns.
The matching of a pattern with a discoursesubstructure l ads to a transformation of the latter intothe surface structure of a sentence, clause or phrase andits bounding to the surface structure of the text.
Inaddition to indicators of the elements of the discoursestructure, the patterns may contain conditions on thecontents of the assertions and on the types of the preced-ing sentences.
Figure 3c shows a portion of the surfacestructure realizing the discourse structure in Figure 3b.The following features characterize the creation of thesurface structure of a text:?
A good deal of sentences are constructed on the ba-sis of impersonal verb phrases typical for weatherdescription.?
The tense of the verbs is determined by the type ofthe report.
If it is a forecast, then future tense isadopted, otherwise - -  past tense.?
Where appropriate, function words are inserted thatindicate the type of conversational move (e.g.
"but"for contrast, "also" for addition, etc.).?
Certain elements of the context (the region and/orthe time period) are omitted, if implied from thepreceding text or the external context, or are re-placed by adverbial or relative adverbial phrases("there, then, where, when"), if the correspondingelement is implied but the grammatical structurerequires uch a phrase.?
The precision rate of the assertions, if lower thanhigh, is indicated by inserting proper modifiers, suchas "at many places of ...", "mostly" etc., whichwarn the reader to accept he information with somereservations.?
The word order of the sentences i  selected in sucha way that the elements constituting the topics andthe focuses of the consecutive sentences alternate(Haji~ov?, 1987).
For example, if the region is thefocus of one sentence, it is good to generate the nextsentence with the region being its topic.
Thus thetext will flow rhythmically and at a proper pace.6.3 Supp lement ing  a map wi th  a textA technique of converting a set of assertions into aweather map has been described in (Kerpedjiev, 1990).Here we concisely recall the technique and extend it toallow the generation of text supplements.The conversion of a set of assertion into a map is basedon the existence of a set of visual objects (pictographs)and two functions - -  f and g; f assigns a pictigraphto each weather value; and g, for each region, deter-mines the positions where the icons related to a givenattribute should be put in.
The algorithm of conver-sion scans the selected set of assertions and generates tilemap plan by replacing each assertion (w, v, r, t,p) witha list of statements {(q, xi, yi)}i=l..,~, where q = f(t').
{(xi, yi)}i=l n = g(w,r).
A statement (q,x,y) of themap plan drives the formatter to place icon q in the po-sition with coordinates (x, y).Some problems arise with this technique.
Firstly.
twopictographs may occur to overlap and distort each other.53al =< clouds,clear, Bul, whole_day, moderate>a2 =<clouds,overcast, West_Bul,whole_day,moderate>a3 = <precip, rain, West_Bul, afternoon,high>a4 = < wind, strong, Bul, whole_day, moderate>as = < wind,gale,Dobrudja,whole_day, high>a6 =< wind, gale, Black_sea, whole_day,high>(a) The extracted set of assertionsffrom-summary-to-det alcont ras~y_" \to-detail & relatea(-b specify~_1 contrast t ~ relate .~upresentation by attributesf from_summary_to_det ail-"x& relate Sspat ia l  ~i progression(~ specify ~ \ [ .
~))attr i-~-J relate \[~--Jregion "---J/butek .
.
.
X .
.
.
(b) The discourse structureclause-1NP(Bul, moderate)'much of Bulgaria'sentence-1 ~ sentence-2function(contrast clause-2VP(clouds, sunny) NP(West_Bul) VP ...'will be sunny' 'West Bulgaria'(c) The surface structureMuch of Bulgaria will be sunnybut West Bulgaria will be mostlycloudy with showers in the after-noon.
Windy in most areas withgales in Dobrudja nd at the Blacksea coast.
(d) The final textFigure 3: The successive steps in the conversion of a set of assertions into a textSecondly, certain geometrical relations between the iconsof related assertions hould be ensured.
Thirdly, the in-formation concerning the time period and the precisionrate is completely ignored by the conversion technique.The first two problems are resolved by carefully designingthe function g. Information about a time period and/orprecision rate, when necessary, is provided by a verbalcomment as described below.Suppose that the assertion (w, v, r , t ,p)  is visualizedon a map representing the weather situation in context(r',ff).
The corresponding map plan will represent theassertion correctly only if t' C t and p = high.
If anyof these relations is violated then the system has to im-part this information to the user.
We call it residualinformation or a residue.
It consists of a reference partdetermined by the weather value (the user associates itwith the corresponding icon) and possibly by the region(if r f'l r ' # / ;  the user should identify it with the lo-cations where the icons are situated) and a specificalionpart determined by the elements t'f'lt (if different from t ')and p (if not high).
The grammar for rendering a residueas a sentence is available in the grammatical knowledgebase.
Furthurmore, the residual information can be for-mulated either as a characteristics of the reference part(e.g.
"the rain in East Bulgaria will be scattered") or asa process (e.g.
"the rain in East Bulgaria will stop bynoon" ).The planning of a text supplement may face the fol-lowing problem.
Consider the example in section 6.1.
Ifanother assertion occurs about a fog in North Bulgariaat noon, then the residual information must be adjustecto the following message:"The fog in North Bulgaria will clear by theafternoon"In order to avoid any inconsistency in the generated mes.sage, the system collects the residues relating to the sam~weather attribute and region, unifies their specificatio~parts whereby some content portions may partially neutralize each other, and then generates the message.7 Generation and compositionThe text generator converts the surface structure intotext by making use of the phrasal lexicon.
For some othe terminals of the surface structure it provides ready.made strings, while other terminals have to be refine(further.
For example, if the regions "South Bulgaria'and "East Bulgaria" occur in the same phrase, the gener.ator will combine them into the contracted form "Souttand East Bulgaria".
Whenever possible, the text gener.ator takes care of the diversity of lexical forms by providing different phrases for terminal nodes of the sam~type (compare "much of Bulgaria" and "most areas" iithe example in Figure 3).The map generator interprets the map plan and converts it into an image by rendering the successive statements (cf.
section 6.3).
The maps contours as well as th~various icons are prepared in advance and stored in th~visual library.
The text supplements, if any, are prepare?in the same way as ordinary text portions and attache?to the bottom of the map.54The formatter composes the document from compo-nents delivered by the generators.
An enumeration struc-ture is created from the constituting text portions byinserting the lexical representation f each external con-text as a heading of the corresponding portion.
A tableis composed of phrases produced by the text generatorfrom a series of values extracted by the scanner.8 Conc lus ionThe system presented in this paper interprets a weatherdataset and generates a multimodal report.
The follow-ing features distinguish the method from similar projectscarried out elsewhere:?
Various weather documents have been analyzed todetermine their structures and to define a languagethat allows the user to specify the generated prod-uct with respect o mode, content, style, length andprecision of the information.?
A knowledge-based technique for selection of the dis-course structure of the generated document has beendevised on the basis of typical rhetorical schemasand relations defined in the TKB.?
The system controls the precision of the assertionsextracted.
Information with a low precision rate isrendered as a sentence with lexical indicators of im-precision (e.g.
in some portions, possibly), whichwarn the user to accept he corresponding assertionswith a certain degree of reservation.?
The cartographical presentation, though superior inmany respects to the textual presentation, still suf-fers from the lack of proper means of expression forcertain elements such as time and precision of the in-formation.
Therefore, a map may he supplementedwith a concise verbal comment on the underspec-ified elements.
Thus the two modalities, NL andgraphics, complementing each other offer a highlyexpressive and efficient weather eport.The system has been implemented in Pascal on an IBMPC.
The TKB is filled in with models of the general-purpose short-range weather forecasts for Bulgaria.
Thegrammatical knowledge base and the lexicon containstyles corresponding to subsets of Bulgarian and English.Experiments have been performed with datasets com-piled at the National Weather Service in Sofia.In order to make the system practical it has to becoupled with a layout manager.
Thus the user will beable to specify the arrangement of the different units inthe plane.Another point of future work is the enrichment of theweather model with attributes ummarizing the weatherover a longer period (say five days) taking into accountclimatic data.
Thus the system will be able to extractand render more interesting facts about the weather.A promising research area which may contribute tothe further development of the system is user modeling.Experimentation i  this area can be combined with thevarious applications of weather eports.ReferencesJ.
Algayer, K. Harbusch, A. Kobsa, C. Reddig, N. Rei-thinger, and D. Schmauks.
XTRA: A Natural-LanguageAccess System to Expert Systems.
International Journalof Man-Machine Studies, 31:161-195, 1989.E.Andr~, G.Herzog and Th.Rist.
On the SimultaneousInterpretation of Real World Image Sequences and theirNatural Language Description: The System SOCCER.In Proc.
8th ECAL pages 449-454, Munich, 1988.L.Bourbeau, D.Carcagno, E.Goldberg, R.Kittredge,A.Polguere.
Synthesizing Weather Forecasts in an Oper-ational Environment.
In Proc.
13th Int.
Conf.
COLING,vol.3, pages 318-320, Helsinki, August 1990.A.Davey.
Discourse Production.
Edinburgh UniversityPress, Edinburgh, UK, 1979.S.Feiner and K.McKeown.
Coordinating Text andGraphics in Explanation Generation.
In Proc.
8th Na-tional Conf.
of AAAI, pages 447-454, 1990.E.Haji6ovd.
Focussing - a Meeting Point of Linguisticsand Artificial Intelligence.
In Artificial Intelligence II:Methodology, Systems, Applications, eds.
Ph.Jorrandand V.Sgurev, North-Holland, Amsterdam, pages 311-321, 1987.S.Kerpedjiev.
Transformation ofWeather Forecasts fromTextual to Cartographic Form.
Computer Physics Com-munications., 61:246-256, 1990.S.
Kerpedjiev, D. Ivanov.
Automatic verification ofgeneral-purpose hort-range weather forecasts.
InternalReport, Institute of Mathematics, 1991.S.Kerpedjiev and V.Noncheva.
Intelligent Processing ofWeather Forecasts.
In Proc.
13th Int.
Conf COLING,vol.3, pages 379-381, August 1990, Helsinki.K.Kukich.
Design of a Knowledge-Based Report Gener-ator.
In Proc.
21st Annual Meeting of ACL, 1983.D.McDonald.
Natural Language Generation.
Ill Ency-clopedia of Artificial Intelligence, d. S.C.Shapiro, pages642-655, 1987.O.Stock.
Natural Language and Exploration of an In-formation Space: The AlFresco Interactive System.
InProc.
IJCAI, Australia, August 1991.W.Wahlster, E.Andr~, W. Graf, and Th.Rist.
DesigningIllustrated Texts: How Language Production is Influ-enced by Graphics Generation.
In Proc.
5th Conf.
Eu-ropean Chapter of ACL., Berlin, Germany, April 1991.55
