Acquiring and Exploiting the User's Knowledge in GuidanceInteractionsEya l  Sh i f ron i  and  Uzz i  OrnanDepar tment  of  Computer  Sc ienceTechn ion  - Israel  Ins t i tu te  of  Techno logyTechn ion  City,  Ha i fa  32000, Israelemai l :  sh i f ron i@cs .
techn ion.ac .
i l ,  o rnan@cs .
techn ion .ac .
i lJ anuary  5, 19921 IntroductionThis paper presents a model for Flexible InteractiveGuidance System (FIGS) that provides people withinstructions about natural tasks.
The model is de-veloped on the basis of a phenomenological analy-sis of human guidance and illustrated by a systemthat gives directions in geographical domains.
Theinstructions are provided through a dialog adaptedboth in form and content o user's needs.
The mainproblem addressed is how to provide a user-adaptedguidance during the normal course of the guidancedialog, without introducing a special time consumingsub-dialog to gain information about the user's stateof knowledge.A user-adapted guidance system must collect in-formation about the user's knowledge of the guid-ance domain and build a User Model (UM).
It isknown that a UM can improve the behavior of dia-log systems and contribute to the ease of their usageand the naturalness of their response ( (Rich, 1979)).However, a UM may also have negative ffects on thesystem's behavior, since the process of its acquisitionmay increase both the time and the effort the usermust invest in the interaction.
The model suggestedhere addresses this problem by weighing the effortrequired to acquire the UM against the benefits ofits usage.2 BackgroundUser modeling systems that were built during the80s were developed for advisory systems.
Early sys-tems used an explicit method to acquire the UM (e.g.,(Rich, 1979)).
In such a method facts about the userare provided to the UM by the user himself.
Thismethod however, has a major drawback, since theuser who is interested in obtaining information fromthe system, is forced to provide answers to a sequenceof questions posed by the system.
Recently, severalmethods to infer facts about the user implicitly weresuggested (see (Kass, 1990) for an overview).
Thesemethods exploit the user's questions and the user'sanswers to questions posed by the system, to indi-rectly infer new facts about him, and are thus able toconstruct a detailed UM based on a relatively shortdialog.The explicit acquisition method was describedin the recent literature as inferior to the implicitmethod because of its consumption of the user's time.However, implicit acquisition includes a risk of miss-ing essential facts about the user, and hence maycause the system to provide unnecessary informationthat is already known to the user.3 Integrating Explicit  and Im-plicit MethodsThe model suggested here integrates the explicit ac-quisition method with a variety of implicit methodsin a context of a Guidance dialog.
In contrast oadvisory dialogs that usually contain an interviewphase aiming to elicit from the user information re-quired for the advice generation, in guidance interac-tions most of the dialog consists of instructions pro-vided by the system, and user's responses to theseinstructions.
Although questions to the guidance re-cipient - the guidee - do occur, they do not con-stitute a separate phase but are rather scattered inthe instruction sequence.
In the current study and249in other studies of human guidance dialogs it wasfound that in such dialogs any instruction made bythe guide is followed by a guidee's response such asquestion, interruption, or confirmation-signal.
In hu-man interaction confirmation-signals re provided byeither verbal (e.g., "ahm") or non-verbal (e.g., headnodding) means, this can be simulated in human-computer interaction by a special "continue" buttonthat is used to signal the system to move to the nextinstruction.We claim that any instruction-response pair in theguidance sequence can serve as a basis for inferencesabout the guidee.
In general, each such pair typetriggers different inferences and consumes a differ-ent amount of the user's resources (time, effort, pa-tience).
For example, inferences can be drawn froman instruction/confirmation-signal pair; the confir-mation signal shows that the user understands theinstruction and thus affirms the assumptions whichled to its production.
Such default inferences are lesscertain than those based on answers to explicit ques-tions, but they do not consume the resources of theguidee: No special action from him is required; infact the guidee may not even be aware to the factthat inferences about him are being made.
A strat-egy of explicit questioning is justified only when theneeded fact is informative, and there was no way inwhich the system could infer it from the previousdialog.
In any other case a more implicit strategyshould be preferred.This view extends the explicit-implicit distinctionmentioned above since each utterance pair type facil-itates a different acquisition method, and each suchmethod has a different level of explicitness.
Ourmodel provides therefore, a new definition of the no-t ion  of explicitness which extends the previous no-t ion  in two ways.
First, we distinguish between Ac-quisition Explicitness and Transmission Explicitness,this way the notion can be applied both for informa-tion flowing from guide to guidee (guidance infor-mation), and for information flowing from guidee toguide (user modeling information).
Second, we al-low various levels of explicitness, rather than the twoextremes only.
The system's explicitness level is de-fined in terms of the interactive ffort that is investedin the dialog.
This can either be the effort requiredto provide a fact to the guidee, or the effort requiredto acquire a fact about him.We define FIGS as a system that provides inter-active, user-adapted guidance, and satisfies the fol-lowing two conditions: (1) It is equipped with a setof instruction-acquisition strategies, each of which ischaracterized by a different level of acquisition ex-plicitness and transmission explicitness; and (2) Ithas a mechanism to dynamically select a strategy.This mechanism attempts to reach optimMity withrespect o the interactive ffort required for providingthe information eeded by the guidee.The suggested model implements the forego-ing considerations, it includes four instruction-acquisition strategies: (1) Question - the user pro-vides a needed fact, (2) Explanation - no facts aboutthe user are used, (3) Explicit Assumption - the in-struction is based on an assumption about the user,and the assumption is mentioned, and (4) ImplicitAssumption - an assumption is used without men-tioning it.A major feature of our model is that UM acqui-sition considerations are integrated into the FIGS'sutterance planning process.
Hence, the user mod-eling and the instruction generation are done incre-mentally by inter-related processes.
We use heuris-tic rules to select among the four strategies; theserules weigh four discourse parameters: informationcontent, user knowledge (as described by the currentUM), likelihood to acquire new facts about the user,and consumption of user's resources.The computational model we suggested was imple-mented by a computer program (called FIGS1) thatoffers directional instructions in a complex universitybuilding.
FIGS1 uses heuristic rules to control boththe strategy selection and the UM construction.
Amore detailed exposition of our model and its im-plementation can be found in (Shifroni & Shanon,1991), and (Shifroni & Ornan, 1991).ReferencesKass, R. (1990).
Building a user model explicitlyfrom a cooperative advisory dialog.
In SecondInternational Workshop on User Modeling.Rich, E. (1979).
User modeling via stereotypes.
Cog-nitive Science, 3(4), 329-354.Shifroni, E. & Ornan, U.
(1991).
FIGSI: A flexibleguidance dialog system.
In Proceedings of the8th Israeli Symposium on Artificial Intelligence,(pp.
51-68).
Color print press Jerusalem.Shifroni, E. &: Shanon, B.
(1991).
Interactive usermodeling: An integrating explicit-implicit ap-proach.
Submitted to the journal of User Mod-eling and User Adapted Interaction.250
