Overview of Natural Language Processingof Captions for Retrieving Multimedia DataEugene J. GuglielmoNaval Weapons CenterInformation Systems Department,  Code 2724China Lake,  Cal i fornia 93555Neil C. RoweNaval Postgraduate SchoolComputer  Science Department,  Code 52Monterey,  Cal i fornia 93943AbstractThis paper briefly describes the current implementa-tion status of an intelligent information retrieval sys-tem, MARIE, that employs natural language process-ing techniques.
Descriptive captions are used to iden-tify photographic images concerning various militaryprojects.
The captions are parsed to produce a logicalform from which nouns and verbs are extracted toform the primary keywords.
User queries are alsospecified in natural language.
A two-phase search pro-cess employing coarse-grain and fine-grain match pro-cesses is used to find the captions that best match thequery.
A type hierarchy based on object-oriented pro-gramming constructs i used to represent the semanticknowledge base.
This knowledge base containsknowledge of various military concepts and terminol-ogy with specifics from the Naval Weapons Center.Methods are used for creating the logical form duringsemantic analysis, generating the keywords to be usedin the coarse-grain match process, and fine-grainmatching between query and caption logical forms.1 IntroductionRecent approaches to intelligent information retrieval haveused natural language (NL) understanding methods instead ofkeywords and statistical methods.
However, the best NLmethod is still unknown.
This research studies a restrictedform of information, the description associated withidentifying multimedia data, i.e., natural language captions.The rationale and motivation for using captions waspresented by Lum and Meyer-Wegener (1990).
A prototypeparser was developed for demonstrating how natural languagequeries could be used in conjunction with Structured QueryLanguage (SQL) for specifying retrieval requests from amultimedia database.Using these results at the Naval Postgraduate School, wehave been able to design a more robust natural anguageprocessing and retrieval system for potential use at the NavalWeapons Center (NWC).
The Center's Photo Lab maintainsa database of over 100,000 photographs of project andhistorical data from the last 50 years.
Both captions andsupercaptions (caption about a set of captions) are used.
Thecurrent search and retrieval strategy uses manually createdkeywords organized into a keyphrase - a head keyword and astring of descriptive nouns.
Our strategy entails parsing theEnglish captions to produce a logical form, then using thelogical form as the basis of the retrieval.
We have labeledthis system MARIE (Epistemological Information RetrievalApplied to Multimedia).2 MethodologyThe information retrieval system we have developed isbasedon two stages:.a coarse-grain match to reduce the list ofpossible information for a later fine-grain match (Rau 1987).Three tasks that we deemed essential for this system includedthe ability to represent and produce a logical form of thecaption, the ability to generate keywords from the logicalform, and the ability to load in previously stored captionlogical forms for matching against the query logical form.2.1 NL ParserWe have used an existing natural language processing pro-gram, the DBG Message Understanding System(Montgomery et al 1989), as a starting point.
This programwas developed for understanding dialog conversations.
To ac-commodate he existing captions at NWC, we had to makemodifications to the grammar, functional parser, and tem-plate processor.The grammar rules were changed to enable parsing ofpunctuation, descriptive noun phrases, dates, geographiclocations, numeric and descriptive vehicle designations.Additional rules were introduced to handle theme-orientedphrases as opposed to agent-initiated sentences.
The structureof functional parse output was altered to accommodatemapping into the type hierarchy.
Specifically, tokens wereintroduced to allow linking together words based onsyntactic relationships.
The resulting output structureappears imilar to slot-assertion notation.In the original DBG system, the template processorproduced frame structures for a semantic analysis of thesentence.
This portion of the system was redone using anobject-oriented programming methodology.
We have createda single type hierarchy to hold both nouns and verbs.Producing the logical form is a matter of mapping thepredicate xpressions from the functional parse output intothe type hierarchy.
Methods are used to set inner cases forboth nouns and verbs (e.g., theme, agent, location, etc.
); setmodifiers for nouns and verbs (e.g., adjectives and adverbs);231set correlations between classes (e.g., part_of, has_part,program_about, etc.
); and generate the logical form fromclass instances and associated slot values.2.2 Generating the KeywordsKeyword records to be used in the coarse-grain match are ob-tained from the type hierarchy directly rather than from thelogical form output.
An instance of a class uses the classname as the keyword.
The keyword is based on logicallyproper names, not definite descriptions as described byFrixione et al (1989).
Methods are defined for cachingkeyword records containing the caption identifier and anycase information to a keyword file for each class instance.Each class has a keyword file maintained in sorted order.2.3 MatchingOnce an English query is instantiated within the type hierar-chy to reflect he query logical form, the instances indicatewhich class and subclass keyword files need to be examinedin the coarse-grain match.
The corresponding keyword filesare read, and the keyword records are intersected using thecaption-id as the unique identifier.
In the future, caseinformation will be used at query time for specifying therole for a word (e.g, initiator of an action as opposed to therecipient) and treated as a filter in selecting the appropriatecase records within the keyword file.
Caption-ids whoseintersection score exceed a coarse-grain match thresholdbecome ligible for fine-grain matching.Fine-grain matching entails mapping the logical form fora stored parsed caption back into the type hierarchy andmatching it against he query instances within the hierarchy.Figure 1 shows the appearance of the type hierarchy with theexistence of both the query "missile on stand" and caption262865, "Sidewinder AIM 9R missile on stand," within it.phys obl Inoun(query-l-I) ~ /on(noun(query-l-2)) noun(query-l-2)noun(262865-1-2)lair-to-airmissile IQUERY: missile on standCAPTION: Sidewinder AIM 9R missi/e\[Sidewinder \[ on stand~ query inst'son(noun(262865-1-2) ~ caption inst'sFigure 1 Fine-Grain Matching in Type HierarchyInstance matching is based on subtype matching.
InFigure 1, the query instance for the class "missile" matchesthe query instance for the class "AIM-9R."
Matching of rela-tionships is currently based on exact matching.
The match-ing process is being modified to allow relationship matchingbased on a predefined set of relationships.
Caption-ids withmatch scores exceeding a fine-grain match threshold arepresented to the user.3 Implementat ion StatusThe majority of the system is written in Quintus Prolog.with the type hierarchy being developed using the Elsa-Lapobject-oriented Prolog tool.
The system runs on SunSparcstations and was designed using a client-serverrelationship; the user search environment and key creationinterface form the two clients and a server process handlesthe parsing of the natural anguage, generation of the keys,and the matching.
The lexicon has over 1000 lexical itemsand the type hierarchy has over 200 classes.
Furtherimplementation a d methodology details can be found inGuglielmo and Rowe (1991).4 Future ResearchThe present system handles individual captions that describean individual photograph.
Future work will investigatesupercaptions.
For example, supercaptions that are used torepresent all captions from the same chapter of a book or asupercaption that is used to represent all captions thatpertain to a combat plan.
All of the member captions haresomething in common, and the intersection of this commoninformation forms the supercaption.5 ConclusionThe ability to use natural anguage for query specificationand retrieval holds the most promise over keyword andkeyphrase approaches.
We believe that the restricted use ofnatural language in captions for multimedia data retrieval isa less difficult task than full natural anguage fact retrieval.We feel that we have a system that can be demonstrated andbuilt upon not only for retrieving images but also otherforms of multimedia data as well.ReferencesFrixione, M., S. Gaglio, and G. Spinelli.
1989.
Are ThereIndividual Concepts?
Proper Names and Individual Conceptsin SI-Nets.
Intl.
Journal Man-Machine Studies 30:489-503.Guglielmo, E.J.
and Rowe, N.C. 1991.
Natural LanguageProcessing of Captions for Retrieving Multimedia Data.Tech Pub.
TP-7203.
Naval Weapons Center, InformationSystems Department, China Lake, CA.
December.Lum, V. Y. and K. Meyer-Wegener.
1990.
"An Architecturefor a Multimedia Database Management System SupportingContent Search."
In Advances in Computing andInformation, Proceedings ofthe International Conference onComputing and Information.
Niagra Falls, Canada, May 23-26.Montgomery, C. A., J. Burge, H. Holmback, J. L. Kuhns,B.
G. Stalls, R. Stumberger, and R. L. Russel Jr. 1989.The DBG Message Understanding System.
In Proceedings ofthe Annual AI Systems in Government Conference,Washington, D.C., March 27-31.Rau, L. 1987.
"Knowledge Organization and Access in aConceptual Information System."
Information Processing &Management 23, no.
4:269-283.232
