SEISD: An environment for extraction ofSemantic Information from on-line dictionariesAlicia Agent (1) Irene Castell6n(1)M. A. Marti (2) German Rigau (1)Francese Ribas (1) Horaeio Rodriguez (1)Mariona Taul6 (2) Felisa Verdejo (1)1 Introduction.
(1) Universitat  Pol it~cnica de Catalunya.
Departament  de LSI.Pau GargaUo, 5 08028-Barce lona  Spain(2) Universitat de Barcelona.
Departament  de Fi lologia Rom~mica.Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 585 08007-Barce lona  SpainKnowledge Acquisition constitutes a main problem asregards the development of real Knowledge-based systems.This problem has been dealt with in a variety of ways.
Oneof the most promising paradigms is based on the use ofalready existing sources in order to extract knowledge fromthem semiautomatically which will then be used inKnowledge-based applications.The Acquilex Project, within which we are working,follows this paradigm.
The basic aim of Acquilex is thedevelopment of techniques and methods in order to useMachine Readable Dictionaries (MRD) * for building lexicalcomponents for Natural Language Processing Systems.SEISD (Sistema de Extracci6n de Informaci6n Semfinticade Diccionarios) is an environment for extracting semanticinformation from MRDs \[Agent et al 91b\].
The systemtakes as its input a Lexical Database (LDB) where all theinformation contained in the MRD has been stored in anstructured format.The extraction process is not fully automatic.
To someextent, the choices made by the system must be bothvalidated and confirmed by a human expert.
Thus, aninteractive environment must be used for performing such atask.One of the main contribution of our system lies in theway it guides the interactive process, focusing on the choicepoints and providing access to the information relevant odecision taking.System performance is controlled by a set of weightedheuristics that supplies the lack of algorithmic riteria ortheir vagueness in several crucial decision points.We will now summarize the most importantcharacteristics of our system:?
An underlying methodology for semantic extraction fromlexical sources has been developped taking into account thecharacteristics of LDB and the intented semantic features tobe extracted.?
The Environment has been conceived as a support for theMethodology.?
The Environment allows both interactive and batchmodes of performance.?
Great attention has been paid to reusability.
The designand implementation f the system has involved an intensive* We acknowledge the facilities received from Biblograf, S.A.for using its Vox MRD.re-use of existing lexical software (written both within andoutside Acquilex project).
On the other hand the possibilityof further use of our own pieces of software has also beentaken into account.?
The system performance is controlled by a set ofheuristics.
The system provides us with a means ofevaluating and modifying these sets in order to improve itsown autonomy.?
The system has been used to extract semanticinformation from the Vox Spanish dictionary.2 Methodo logy .The final goal of a system like ours \[Agent et al, 91a\] is toobtain a large conceptual structure where the nodes wouldcorrespond to the lexical senses in the dictionary, theinformation present in definitions would be encoded withinthe nodes and the relations would be made explicit.The kind of relations we can set between senses are therelations that appear, in an explicit or implicit form, in thedictionary entries.
The most important relation is, of course,the ISA one, which allows us to build a taxonomy ofconcepts related by the hypemym-hyponym links.Although a brute force approach is used sometimes forlimited purposes, we cannot follow this for two mainreasons:?
The lack of limitations over the words that could appearin the dictionary definitions that would imply the use of ageneral-purpose morphological nalyzer with a very largecoverage.?
The need for different grammars to parse entry definitionsbelonging to distant semantic fields (we use differentgrammars for parsing entries belonging to "substance","food" or "instrument" fields).The conclusion was to build the whole conceptualstructure from several "chunks" of conceptual nets, so thateach one would correspond toa narrow domain and would bebuilt independently.
For each of these domains we haveselected one or more starting words or senses (thatcorrespond to the root of the taxonomies we intend toextrac0 and proceeded top-down from them.3 Overv iew o f  the  sys tem.Our system carries out four differents tasks: taxonomyconstruction, semantic relations extraction, heuristics253validation and knowledge integration into a LKB (LexicalKnowledge Base that will contain the conceptual structuresextracted from the LDB) as shown in figure 1.
The first oneconsists of the extraction of the taxonomy structure whichunderlies the dictionary definitions, starting from a topentry.
The second, the extraction of the other semanticrelations which appear in the definitions of the taxonomyalready created.
The validation of the heuristics applied in thetaxonomy construction is the third task.
Finally, all theinformation acquired is integrated into the LKB.
The choosedformalism for defining LKB structures i based on a typedFeature structure (FS) system augmented with defaultinheritance.VPdL, IDA' I ' ION Tuk  3 "rtutk 4Fig.
1: General Scheme of the System.3.1 Taxonomy Extraction.This module is in charge of the extraction of the taxonomieswhich underlie the definitions of the Vox dictionary.In our case, the problem of the extraction of the genericterm is solved by means of FPar syntactic-semantic analyser\[Carroll 90\] with a general simplified grammar for theextraction of the generic term and specific ones for themodifiers.
Given a sense, using this parser, we can detect itshyperonyms as well as other semantic relations.The input of the analyser is a sense augmented with itsmorphological features..
The morphological analysis iscarded out using an optimized version of Seg-Word analyzer\[Sanfilippo 90\].3.2 Semantic Extraction.Once a taxonomy is created, a treelike structure in which allthe senses included are connected with their hyperonym(except for the first Top entry ) and their hyponym (exceptthe terminal senses) is available.The next step (semantic extraction) lies in performing asimilar process to the taxonomy building, but with adifferent grammar and without user intervention.
This batchprocess is called definition analysis.
The grammar, ofcourse, must be more complete and complex than the onefor generic term extraction, because it must allow theextraction of the "differentia" from the definitions associatedto the nodes of the taxonomy.3.3 Heuristic Validation.The definitions of sets of parametrized heuristics, the use ofthese sets for guiding the selection process and the existenceof a mechanism for evaluating the performance and allowingthe updating of such heuristics, constitute relevant featuresof our system.Heuristics are means of implementing criteria for takingdecisions in situations where no algoritmic solution can bestated.Basically, a heuristic is a procedure that assigns a score toeach of the different options it must consider.
A globalscore, result of those corresponding to each heuristic, isobtained, and then, a decision based on these global scores istaken.4 Eva luat ion .The environment has been used to extract semanticinformation from the Vox dictionary.
Vox is a monolingualSpanish dictionary containing about 90.000 entries (around150.000 senses).
We have concentrated on narrow butsignificative domains, including both noun ("substance","food", "drink", "person", "place" and "instrument"),involving around 3000 senses, and verb ("movement","ingestion" and "cooking"), involving around 300 senses,taxonomies.An initial set of heuristics has been built mainly fordealing with sense disambiguation tasks.
Differenttaxonomies have been constructed using this environment.The required linguistic knowledge sources (FPargrammars, Seg-Word rules, conversion rules) have beendevelopped concurrently with the taxonomy buildingenvironmenLReferences .\[Ageno et al, 91a\] Ageno A., Cardoze S., Castell6n I.,Martf M.A., Rigau G., Rodriguez H., Taul6 M., VerdejoM.F.
"An environment for management and extraction oftaxonomies from on-line dictionaries".
UPC, Barcelona.ESPRIT BRA-3030 ACQUILEX WP NO.020\[Ageno et al 91b\]Ageno A., Cardoze S., Castell6n I., MartfM.
A., Ribas F., Rigau G., Rodriguez H., Taul6 M.,Verdejo M. F. "SEISD: User Manual".
UPC, Barcelona.Research Report LSI-91-47\[Carroll 90\] Carroll J.
"Flexible Pattern Matching ParsingTool (FPar)."
Technical Manual.
Computer Laboratory,University of Cambridge.
ESPRIT BRA-3030 ACQUILEX\[Sanfilippo 90\] Sanfilippo A.
"Notes on Seg-Word".Computer Laboratory, University of Cambridge.ESPRIT BRA-3030 ACQUII.EX254
