DILEMMA-2: A LEMMATIZER-TAGGERFOR MEDICAL ABSTRACTSHans  Pau lussenFacult6s Universitaires Notre-Dame de la Paix,rue de Bruxelles 61, B-5000 Namur, Belgiumphone +32-81-72.41.37, fax +32-81-23.03.91, e-mail hpaulus@cc.fundp.ac.beWi l ly  Mar t inVrije Universiteit, De Boelelaan 1105, NL- 1007 MC Amsterdam, The Netherlandsphone +31-20-548.37.63, fax +31-20-661.30.54, e-mail lexico@let.vu.nlAbstract  0 In t roduct ionThis paper eports on the development ofDILEMMA-2*, a lemmatizer-tagger for thesublanguage of medical abstracts.
The programis an extension of DILEMMA-I, a lemmatizer-tagger for general English texts.In the first section a brief outline is givenof DILEMMA-1.
Particular attention _is paid tothe original concept of a default category whichis linked with a categorial graph by means of apointer system.
In the second section we showwhy DILEMMA-1 was not able to get asuitable score when lemmatizing medicalabstracts, the main reason being the inability torecognize sublanguage specific vocabulary.
Inthe next section a description is given of themost important errors along with theirsolutions; these errors are then categorized asgaps or wrong assignments.
The former couldbe dealt with in either a suffix list or a gapsfiller default.
The latter mainly concernedwrongly assigned past participles and errors onnoun, verb or adjective assignment.After implementation f the proposedsolutions, a comparison is made between theresults of DILEMMA-1 and DILEMMA-2,showing that the results of DILEMMA-1 havebeen improved substantially within asublanguage context, and this by usinglinguistic, i.e.
sublanguage, knowledge, thusavoiding ad hoc remedies.DILEMMA-2 was developed aspart of a research contractfor Elsevier Science Publishers (ESP), Amsterdam, TheNetherlands.
The development of DILEMMA-lwascarried out as part of contract research for Van DaleLexicografie Publishers, Utrecht, The Netherlands.In this paper we describe DILEMMA-2, a lemmatizer-tagger for medical abstracts, which is an updated version ofDILEMMA-1, a lemmatizer-tagger for general texts.
Aftera brief outline of DILEMMA-1 we give a description ofthe types of errors we found when running the generallemmatizer on medical abstracts.
This is followed by someexamples of the solutions we proposed and implementedinto DILEMMA-2.
Finally, the results of DILEMMA-Iand DILEMMA-2 are compared, showing that asublanguage approach can lead to workable results in thedevelopment ofreal world applications.1 D ILEMMA-1DILEMMA-1 is an automatic lemmatizer-tagger fogeneral English texts, developed at the University ofAntwerp during the academic year 1985-1986 (see\[MARTIN 88b\]).
For each word of the text it tries to findits lemma (or dictionary entry form) and its grammaticalcategory, and subcategories (orspecifiers) where necessary.Being a lemmatizer, not a parser, DILEMMA-1 is assuch limited to a relatively basic level of syntacticanalysis, which however can be used as input to a morepowerful syntactic analyzer.
In this way, a lemmatizer canbe considered an invaluable tool for corpus linguistics.To carry out the task of assigning grammarcategories and possible specifiers DILEMMA-1 looks atword forms from four different points-of-view.
First of allword forms are looked at out-of-context (dictionary look-up, morphological procedures).
In a second step theimmediate context is taken into account: word forms areanalyzed and checked by looking at the words immediatelypreceding and following them.
In a third step, the proto-syntactic module, a larger context (such as verb patterns)is taken into account.
Finally, in the temporary memory,word forms are checked by looking at the whole text.Like most modern lemmatizers, DILEMMA-1 usesas much linguistic knowledge as possible, by translatingany regularity on the lexico-morphological level into141rules, thus keeping the dictionary small.
But in the case ofDILEMMA-1 the size of the dictionary is exlxemely smallwhen compared to other lemmatizer-taggers: a little over3600 words.
For a comparison between DILEMMA-1 andCLAWS, another well-known, lemmatizer-tagger forEnglish, see \[MARTIN 88b\].
In passing it can be notedthat DILEMMA-1 uses a dictionary only half the size ofthat used in CLAWS.
This smallness is due to criteriaadopted on the macro- and micro-level of the dictionary.The vertical macro-level is concerned with the words toselect as entry, whereas the horizontal micro-level dealswith the information to store next to the dictionary entry.Figure 1: successor and predecessor relationsbetween the categories-- PRON ~ DET 1VERB ~-~ NOUN ~ ADJ 4-~ ADV 4-- PREP 4 -  PARTOn the macro-level, the dictionary entries are selectedaccording to the following three principles: frequency,closure (of classes, e.g.
prepositions) and irregularity (e.g.irregular verbs, irregular plurals).
In other words, thedictionary only contains words which are either frequent orwhich belong to closed classes or which cannot be deducedfrom the grammar of the English language.
To constructthe list of frequent words, we used Van Dale's English-Dutch Dictionary (\[MARTIN 89\]), where very frequentwords are labeled F4 or F3.
These frequency codes were theresult of an earlier research project (\[MARTIN 83\],\[MARTIN 88a\]).On the micro-level, categorial information is storedpreferentially.
Each word is given a preferential defaultcategory which can shift to other categories along acategorial graph manipulated by the program (see Fig.
1).This way of storing categorial information is based on thefact that DILEMMA-1 also tries to look for regularity inthe categories words can have, and that is what makes it sodifferent from other lemmatizers.Table h part of the DILEMMA dictionarywordform lemma DC ptr  spec i f ie rsk ing k ing noun 1k iss k iss  verb  rkit kit noun 1k i tchen  k i tchen  noun nknee knee noun 1kneel  knee l  verb  nknel t  knee l  verb  n pastpapaknew know verb  n pastBeing a morphologically poor language, English hasa large number of grammatical homonyms.
DILEMMA-1starts from the assumption (i) that English words can havedifferent categories, (ii) that each word has a defaultcategory (DC), and (iii) that the necessary categorial shiftscan be systematized.
The DC, which is the main categoryof a word, is established on the basis of frequency, analogyand/or meaning.
Next to a DC, each word in the dictionary(see Table 1) has a pointer (left, fight or neither) indicatingthe direction in which a category can shift through acategorial graph which was established after calculating thecombination and frequency of categories.
The word "kiss",for example, has the category 'verb '  as DC, and can shift' r ight '  to the 'noun'  category.
All categorial shifts areguided by condition-action rules in the rule component ofthe DILEMMA-1-program.
Note also that the categories'numera l '  and ' in ter jec t ion '  are not integrated inthe graph.
The numeral only has a predecessor, viz.
noun;the interjection has neither a predecessor nor a successor.Table 2:DILEMMA-1 output sample*W*WThei nc l inat ionhereistoacceptadefactocease- f i reinLaosra therthancont inuetoins is tonaver i f i -ca t ionofthecease- f i rebythein terna-t iona lcont ro lcommiss ionbeforepar t i c i -pat ingintheGenevaconferencethe  det  artinc l inat ion  noun sghere  advbe verb  pres 3 sgto par taccept  verb  infa det  artcease- f i re  noun sgin prepLaos  noun propra ther  advthan conjcont inue  verbto partins is t  verb  infon prepa det  artver i f i -  noun sgcat ionof p repthe det  artcease- f i re  noun sgby prepthe det  artin terna-  adjt iona lcont ro l  noun sgcommiss ion  noun sgbe fore  preppar t i c i -  verb  ingpat ingin prepthe  det artGeneva  noun propconference  noun sgThe use of categorial information and pointerschanges the dictionary into an economical and dynamic setof lexemes.
This is maybe the most striking feature of themodular architecture of DILEMMA-I, and it explains alsowhy the program can run even within a PC-environment.For a fuller account of the DILEMMA-l-program we referto \[MARTIN 88b\].
!4P  142An output sample of DILEMMA-1 is shown inTable 2, which is a sentence from the BROWN-corpus(see \[KUCERA 67\]).
The first column is the text, thesecond is the lemmatized form, and the following columnsgive the category and possible specifiers.
When a word isnot recognized, or when recognition is doubtful, it isflagged by a double asterisk.DILEMMA-I  was tested on a number of generallanguage text samples and proved to be a very powerfultool.
A sample of error analysis on 6 texts taken from astandard British English corpus (the LOB corpus\[JOHANSSON 78\]) shows e.g.
that for general languagetexts, DILEMMA-I 's  success rate does not drop below90%, nor does it exceed 97%, on the average leading to ascore of + 93.50% (see Table 3).Table 3: results LOB samplestextnumbertotal ofword-tokenstomlofmadeelTl3tpercen-tagerelativeSuccessrate1 123 6 4.87 95.132 183 7 3.82 96.183 196 7 3.57 96A34 143 14 9.79 90.215 239 17 7.11 92.896 246 19 7.72 92.281-6 1130 70 6.14 93.86Nevertheless, when DILEMMA-1 was tested on anumber of medical abstracts, its scoring reference point of93.50% was not reached at all.
'Best results' were morelikely to lie within the 90% area, the average being about86% (see Table 6).
The object of this research project washow to bring back the success rate for lemmatizingmedical abstracts, without changing the philosophy behindthe DILEMMA-I-program, which is developed as arobust, preferential, dynamic system in which items cantake different values governed by constraints.
Moreover, ina language such as English, categories are often functionalinstead of lexical (which explains, in part, the small sizeof the lexicon).2 A Sublanguage ApproachWhen running the DILEMMA-1 program on medicalabstracts, we found that most errors are related to thesublanguage of medical abstracts.
For example, most gapsin the output are due to a lack of sublanguage specificvocabulary in the DILEMMA-1 dictionary: e.g.
astrocyte,fibrillary, acidic, GFAP.
Another point which supportsthe idea of sublanguage influence is that the more abstractsresemble general language texts, the more their results liewithin the general language area.
In an extreme case therewas only one error in a text of 42 words (success rate =97.62%).
Very unlike the average medical abstract, thistext showed no symbols or abbreviations, and it had short,non-complex sentence structures.
For a fuller account oflexical differences between sublanguage and generallanguage lexicons, see \[MCNAUGHT 91\].An example showing that the sublanguage f aturesare not solely confined to the lexical level is the followingsentence, where 'counts' - -wh ich  can be either ' verb 'or 'noun '  - -  must shift from 'verb '  to 'noun '  whenfound at the beginning of a sentence:e.g.
Counts of neocortical cells did notreveal differences in cell numbers.This categorial shift is a sublanguage shift, ascategorial and syntactic ambiguity does not exist here, i.e.sentence initial verbal constructions such as imperativesand questions do not occur in the sublanguage of medicalabstracts.To improve the DILEMMA-1 program, we not onlytried to tackle the problems from a sublanguage approach,but we also decided to implement all program adaptationsin a separate module which can be called up by the userwhenever he wants.
Such a modular architecture makes iteasier to adapt he program to another sublanguage.Although not new, the sublanguage approach isbeing adopted more and more in the implementation ofreal world applications, where computational linguists areconstantly confronted with how to organize the vastamount of world knowledge.
The domains can be verydiverse as can be seen in the examples of\[CHEVALIER 78\] (automatic translation of weatherforecasts), \[DEVILLE 89\] (automatic man-machinedialogue system handling requests for administrativeinformation) and \[PALMER 90\] (physics world problemsfor college students involving pulley systems).
Only bystrictly defining the limits of the application domain canone write programs without having to resort o brute forcetechniques.Even if we stress the sublinguistic haracter of theerrors in the DILEMMA-1 output, there were of coursealso a number of general errors, most of which could notbe solved within the context of the DILEMMA-1framework which presupposes no (clause) syntacticknowledge.
In the rest of this paper we will focus ourattention on the modifications added at the sublanguagelevel.3 D ILEMMA-2DILEMMA-2 is the result of the corrections we made toDILEMMA-1 within the context of medical abstracts.
Thetype of errors encountered were either gaps or wrongassignments ( ee Table 6 at the end of this section).1433.1 GapsAs explained in section 2, most gaps were sublanguagespecific words.
Putting the missing scientific terms in thedictionary was not considered a good solution: this wouldhave been against he basic principle of the DILEMMAconcept, which was to keep the dictionary as small aspossible; in any case, it would have been a practicallyimpossible task (ESP has a database of more than 100.000scientific terms).
In as far as the missing terms showedsome regularity at the lexico-morphological and syntacticlevel, they could be dealt with outside the dictionary, byusing a sublanguage specific suffix list and a sublanguagespecific gaps filler default.
The former has been arrived atby considering medical sublanguage from a broad point-of-view, situating it within the functional domain ofscientific writing.
Table 4 gives a sample of scientificsuffixes which have categorial power and which are typicalfor the formation of medical terms in a broad sense of theterm.Table 4: part of the scientific suffix listemia  noun nenchyma noun nes i s  noun nescent  adj  nfe rous  adj  nfuge  noun rgen  noun 1gene  noun nAs to the default for the remaining aps, it becameapparent from the sample analysis that medical texts, likemost scientific texts, heavily nominalize.
As a result, weexpect remaining gaps to be (part of) NPs.
Given thecontents of the existing DILEMMA dictionary this leadsus to a choice between (predominantly) nouns andadjectives.
Therefore, only in a last module isDILEMMA-2 allowed to fill out all remaining aps asnouns unless these gaps:(a) occur in prototypical patterns foradjectives uch as (pron  is mentionedhere, because it has not been shifted toDet):Det  X NounPron  X Noun(b) occur in prototypical patterns for verbs,such as possible candidates for aVerb+Object  NP :X Ad j  (Noun)Det  (Adj) (Noun)(C) end in -a l , -a r , - i l e ,  - ine , -y ;unless followed by Noun, then they areshifted to Adjective.
These are typicalendings which can also yield adjectivesand/or verbs.In these cases the gaps remain unfilled mad are flaggedfor further processing by a higher module, such as a clausemodule or a syntactic parser.3.2 Wrong AssignmentsAlthough wrong assignments are far less frequent hangaps, they can be important in so far as they can give riseto wrong results in further processing (e.g.
in establishingNPs), and in so far as they are no longer easilyrecoverable.
The most important of these errors are relatedto either those cases where specification of simple past o~past participle is difficult to distinguish, or to erronconcerning noun, verb or adjective assignment.
Anothelproblem, we will not deal with in this paper, is the ampleuse of differently structured abbreviations, uch as: MH,VAHR,  b.i.d., mRna.
These were handled by arabbreviations procedure.A major problem, well known in English taggin~and so not only restricted to medical texts, is the wron~specification of verbs which can be either simple past olpast participle.
As long as the specifier is no~disambiguated, it is referred to as PAST_PAPA.
In thefollowing example both 'revealed' and 'increased' wereassigned PAST, whereas 'increased' should have beerassigned PAP/~e.g.
Western blot analysis revealedincreased levels of GFAP in Mo(br/y)forebrain and cerebellum.In the context of another ESP project on automaticindexing of medical abstracts, it is important to correctl3delineate NPs and therefore to recognize PAPA 'sHowever, within the framework of a lemmatizer-taggethis is not an easy task.
Again, a sublanguage approachof great help here.
Attributive PAPA 's  in ousublanguage occur much more often than in generaEnglish texts.
Consequently, in some very strictly defmeacontexts we could partly disambiguate he PAST_PAP/problem, as in the following three examples:(a) When a PAST PAPA is preceded by anING-form and f-ollowed by a noun, selectPAPA: e.g.
physicians are expressingincreased willingness.
(b) When a PAST PAPA is preceded by anoun and followed by a preposition or aparticle, select PAPA: e.g.
cells isolatedfrom ...(c) When a PAST PAPA is found at thebeginning of a ~tence ,  select PAPA: e.g.Affected males suffer profound eficits inoxidative metabolism.Each case was implemented in a condition-actioJrule, so that example (a), when written as a C-functionlooks as follows:144if ( ( th isspec == C_past)&& ( th is \ [0 \ ] .spec2 == C papa)&& (prevspec == C_ing)&& (nextcat == C_noun))th i sspec  = C_papa;th i s \ [0 \ ] .
spec2  = C_nu l l spec ;This function states thatifandandandthenandthe specif ier of the selectedword is C pastit has an a l te rnat ivespecif ier C papathe specif ier of the preced ingword is C ingthe category  of the next wordis C nounchange the specif ier of theselected word into Cpapae l iminate  the a l te rnat ive  spec i f ie rAs stated above, our proposal of PAST_PAPA ruleswas based on observations of the Elsevier corpus ofmedical abstracts at our disposal.
We found that thecontexts in which wrongly coded attributive PAPA's occur,can - -  as a rule - -  be characterized as:(a) object NP s following a verb (e.g.
andhave found marked changes);Co) NP8 not (directly) following a verb (e.g.once in individual association and once ina combined,fixed preparation);(c) complex NP 8 (e.g.
after a co-ordinatingconjunction);(d) subject NP s at the beginning of sentence(e.g.
Affected males suffer profounddeficits ...).In the case of errors concerning noun,  verb  oradj e ct ive assignment, we encountered similar contextproblems, and again, only in very strict contexts could arule be applied.3 .3  Resu l tsAfter implementation of the proposed solutions, wecompared the success rates of DILEMMA-1 andDILEMMA-2.
An output sample, based on six randomlyselected texts from 30 ESP samples, is given in Table 5.The results, summarized in Table 6, show that themodifications in DILEMMA-2 have improved the successrate considerably, even passing the scoring reference pointof DILEMMA-1 (93.5% vs. 96%).Table 5: part of lemmafized medical abstractA a det artcomparative comparative adjb ioava i la -  b ioava i la -  noun sgb i l i ty  b i l i tystudy study noun sgof of prepthe the det artant i tuber -  ant i tuber -  noun sgculosis culosisdrugs drug noun plisoniazid isoniazid noun sgr i fampin  r i fampin  noun sgand and conj coorpyraz inamide  pyraz inamide  noun sgwas be verb pastcarried carry  verb papaout out advin in prepa a det artgroup group noun sgof of prepi0 10 humhea l thy  hea l thy  adjvo lunteers  vo lunteer  noun plafter after prepadmin i -  admin i -  noun sgst rat ion s t rat ionof of p repthe the det artthree three numcompounds compound noun plonce once advin in p repind iv idua l  ind iv idua l  adjassociation associat ion noun sgand and conj cootonce once  advin in p repa a det artcombined combined adjfixed fix verb  papapreparat ion  preparat ion  noun sg4 Conc lus ionsIn this paper we have shown that it is possible to adapt ageneral lemmatizer-tagger for the specific purpose oflemmatizing medical abstracts, and this by usinglinguistic knowledge, rather than any ad hoc solutions.A dynamic, preferential, and constraint-based systemwith a very small dictionary such as DILEMMA-1 lendsitself particularly well to such an adaptation, as nomassive lexical importation is necessary, although itlooks like that at first sight.
Instead, mainlymorphological and syntactic sublanguage knowledge hasbeen made use of, leading to a sublanguage suffix list, asublanguage default procedure and improved functions of145PAS~" PAPA specifiers.
The program was modifiedmodul~ly so that adaptations toother sublanguages couldeasily be carded out.
In this way DILEMMA-2 is atpresent used as an invaluable pre-processor for an abstractsindexing program at Elsevier Science Publishers,Amsterdam.
It should be clear that, generally speaking,lemmatizing-tagging performance orrelates in a positiveway with indexing and information retrieval in that itpaves the way for finding NPs (as possible index terms)and that it abstracts away from inflectional variation (thuscovering morphological variants in search words).Although some minor corrections ate still possible(for example in the lemmatizing procedures), we believethat DILEMMA-1 cannot reach a higher score within thelimits it is conceived for.
Interestingly, improvements arepossible 'horizontally', thus allowing extensions for othersublanguages; further 'vertical' ref'mements should be leftto more powerful tools.
On the other hand, by bringing inmore flags to signal uncertainties, DILEMMA-2 couldreach, with some small guided post-editing effort, a near-perfect score.Table 6: summary dilemmatized ESP abstractstextl text2 text3 text4 text5total amount 186 86 150 176 242 of wordswrong 12 3 6 5 22assignmentsgaps 21 7 14 15 32total amount 33 10 20 20 54of errorstotal amount 25 7 16 14 37 of correctionsrema.n.n~,il- 8 3 4 6 17errorstext 6233111697TOTAL107353100153(14.25%)10845(4.19%)suc?.~ss rateDILEMMA- 185.75 %DILEMMA-295.81%References\[CHEVALIER 78\]Chevalier, M.: TAUM-METEO: description dusyst~me, Groupe de recherche en traductionautomatique, University of Montreal, 1978.\[DEVILLE 89\]Deville, G.: Modelization of task-oriented utterances ina man-machine dialogue system, PhD dissertation,UIA: Antwerpen, 1989.\[JOHANSSON 78\]Johansson, S., G. Leech & H. Goodluck (eds.
):Manual of information to accompany the Lancaster-Oslo-Bergen corpus of British English, for use withdigital computers, University of Oslo, 1978.\[KUCERA 67\]Kucera, H. & W. N. Francis (eds.
): Computationalanalysis of present-day American English, Providence,Rhode Island, 1967.\[MARTIN 83\]Martin, W.: "The construction of a basic vocabulary:an objective-subjective approach" in LinguisticaComputazionale III, 183-197, 1983.\[MARTIN 88a\]Martin, W.: "Variation in lexical frequency" inP.
vanReenen & K. van Reenen-Stein (eds.
): Distributionsspatiales et temporelles, 139-152, Benjamins:Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1988.\[MARTIN 88b\]Martin, W., R. Heymans & F. Platteau: "DILEMMA,an automatic lemmatizer" in W. Martin (ed.
):COLINGUA 1, UIA: Antwerpen, 5-62, 1988.\[MARTIN 89\]Martin, W. & G. Tops (eds.
): Van Dale GroolWoordenboek Engels-Nederlands, Van DaleLexicografie: Utrecht/Antwerpen, 1989, 2nd edition.\[MCNAUGHT 91 \]McNaught J., B. Nkwenti-Azeh, W. Martin & E. te~Pas: Feasibility of standards for terminologica~description of lexical items, report written for the ECin the EUROTRA-7 framework, UMIST: ManchesterVrije Universiteit: Amsterdam, 1991.\[PALMER 90\]Palmer, M. S.: Semantic processing for finit?domains, CUP: Cambridge, 1990.146 146
