A Method  of Automat ic  Hyper text  Construct ionfrom an Encyc lopedic  Dict ionary of a Specif ic FieldSadao Kurohash i ,  Makoto  Nagao ,  Satosh i  Sato  and  Masah iko  MurakamiDept .
of  E lect r ica l  Eng ineer ing ,  Kyoto  Un ivers i tyYosh ida-honmach i ,  Sakyo ,  Kyoto ,  606, Japan1 In t roduct ionNowadays, very large volume of texts are created andstored in computer, and as a result the retrieval of textswhich fits to a user's demand has become a difficult prob-lem.
Hypertext is a typical system to answer this prob-lem, whose primary objective is to establish flexible as-sociative links between relevant ext parts and to allowusers to select and trace links to see relevant ext con-tents which are connected by links.
A difficult problemhere is how to construct automatically a network struc-ture in a given set of text data.
This paper is concernedwith (1) automatic conversion of a plain text set intoa hypertext structure, and (2) construction of flexiblehuman interface for the hypertext system.
We appliednatural language processing methods to locate impor-tant conceptual terms in a text corpus and to establishvarieties of links between these terms and appropriatetext portions.2 Ext rac t ion  o f  thesaurus  in fo rmat ionThe text corpus we handled as a concrete xample wasthe Encyclopedic Dictionary of Computer Science (here-after abbreviated as EDCS.
Iwanami Publ.
1990.
En-glish translation will appear soon from Academic Press).It includes 4500 terms and has the text volume of twomillion Japanese characters (4 Mega bytes).The first part of the term description of EDCS isdevoted to synonyms, antonyms, abbreviations andbroader concept words.
This part has typical sententialstyles such as,(i) A is {sometimes, often, also, commonly, ...} {called,written, named, expressed, ...} as B, C, ..., or D.(ii) A is abbreviated as B.
(iii) A is {an abbreviation, a contraction, ...} of B.
(iv) A stands for B.
(v) We call A S {for short}.
(vi) A is B.
A is included in B.
(vii) A is called as B, so C as D.By finding these sentential patterns the relation betweenthe words A and B is established as follows.
(i) p-link is set up f rom a synonym word  to a sen-tence  which defines the synonym relation.
(ii) s-link (by synonym) is set up f rom a def ined wordto def in ing words  by synonym relation.Typical sentential styles of intensional definition are:(i) A is defined as B.
A is regarded as B.
(ii) A means B.
A connotes B.
A is B.
(iii) A is a {kind, form, way, branch, method, ...) of B.
(iv) A is regarded as B, so C as D.By identifying these patterns in a term description part,the relation between the defined word (A) and the defi-nition sentences i established as:(i) p-link is set up f rom the def ined word  to thedef in i t ion sentence  when the defined word is notthe headword of the term description.
This is thecase when the defined word is not so important asa headword of the dictionary, and so a rather sim-ple definition description is embedded in the termdescription.
(ii) s-link (by synonym) is set up between the  def inedwords  in the above word extraction process if thereare plurals of the defined words.isa-link is established between a narrower conceptword (A) and a broader concept word (B) as A isa B.Here A and B are descriptors which represent other syn-onym words, isa thesaurus is first established for thewords defined by intensional definitions.
By utilizingthis thesaurus extensional definitions are analyzed to getwords of broader/narrower relation defined by these sen-tences (refer to the next section).
Then the thesaurus isreformulated by the addition of new words which haveisa relation, and which are obtained from extensionaldefinitions.3 Ext rac t ion  o f  o ther  in fo rmat ionSentences of extensional definition introduce examplesand narrower concept words of the defined words.
Typ-ical sentential styles of the extensional definition are:(i) A is {divided, classified, ...} into B, C, ..., and D.(ii) A includes B, C, ..., and D.(iii) There exist B, C, ..., and D {in, for} A.From these sentences we get the information that Ais a defined word, and B, C, ..., and D are narrower (or239Table 1: Functional relations between words.RelationA isa BA syn BA anti BA hcomp BA hprop BA hfuni BA hfuno BA deal BA purp BA used BA set BAbyBMeaningA isaBA is synonym of BA is antonym of BA has B as a componentA has a property of BA has an intrinsic function of BA has an extrinsic function of BA deals with BA has a purpose of BA isused in  BA sets BA is done in/by Blower) concept words.
However, there are sometimes thecases where the above sentential styles do not necessarilymean the expected efinitions.
Therefore to make surethe relations A and B, C, ..., and D are the expected one,we introduced a simple checking procedure as follows.
(i) the semantic ategory of the narrower concept wordsmust be the same as that of the defined word.
(ii) isa thesaurus is checked to see no contradiction be-tween the defined word and its narrower conceptwords.By identifying the above sentential patterns in a termdescription just after the intensional definition sentences,the relation between the defined word (A) and its nar-rower term (B, C, ..., D) is established as:(i) p-link is set up f rom a nar rower  te rm to itsdef ining sentences  which include the word by thecondition that the narrower term is not the head-word of the dictionary.
(ii) The extracted words have broader/narrower rela-tion and are included in the isa thesaurus, and aregiven s-links (by isa).We tried to extract functional relations between wordsfrom the definitional sentences.
The extraction is mainlyperformed by checking the sentential structure and par-ticularly the verb property of the defining sentences, andadditional checking is done for the consistency betweenA and B (Table 1).
Links are established from A to Bby s-links with meaning attributes hown in Table 1.EDCS has, besides the term description, the word treewhich is similar to a thesaurus, and which shows graphi-cally the structure of the whole area of computer science.Word tree is stored in computer by s-link, and p-link isestablished from a word in the word tree to the cor-responding term description, p-link is also establishedfrom an index word to the text portion in which the in-dex word is included.
The term description has referencewords at the end of the term description.
This referenceis done by s-link.4 Retrieval systemInformation retrieval can be done from varieties of as-pects by tracing p- and s-links.
A user can start thedictionary consultation by giving an arbitrary word(W),the meaning of which he or she wants to know.
(i) When W is a headword the term description of Wis displayed.
(ii) When W is an index word the term descriptionwhich includes the explanation of the index wordis displayed with the special mark of that explana-tion part.
When there are several terms to W, thesecandidates are shown with simple explanations, andthe user can choose one of them for more detaileddescription.
(iii) When W is a basic componential word of some com-pound words these words are shown to the user toselect a proper compound word.
Then the process(ii) is activated.
(iv) When W is not in the above categories the textsearch for the whole text data of the dictionary canbe started.
The full text search will be completedin a few seconds, and all the matched parts can bedisplayed by KWIC representation.
(v) A user can see on the display the part of the wordtree which includes W when it is a headword, andcan understand the relative situation of the wordW in relation to other words in the wider scope ofthe computer science field.
The user can point anyword in the word tree to see its details.When the term description of a headword is dis-played on the screen, any word on the screen canbe marked, and the process of (i) ,~ (v) can be ac-tivated from the marked word.A user can ask what are the words which are relatedto W by a certain functional relation, and can go tothe process (i) ~, (v) with these words.5 ConclusionAutomatic linking of index words with the correspondingtext portions by p-links was compared with the indicesin the published book, which were given by human.
Wecan say that a fairly good coincidence is obtained.
Somelinks which are set by automatic process are not proper,but there are many links which were not set up by humanby his or her carelessness.
The appropriateness of the s-links which are set by automatic process was checked byrandom sampling, and 92% of the links was recognizedas appropriate.The evaluation result shows that the language pro-cessing introduced into the structuring of a large vol-ume of text data of the Encyclopedic Dictionary of Com-puter Science as a hypertext system was successful.
Thismethod is widely applicable for the hypertext construc-tion of varieties of dictionaries.
(vi)(vii)240
