Automatic Extraction of Facts from Press Releasesto Generate News StoriesPeggy M. Andersen, Philip J. HayesAlison K. Huettner, Linda M. SchmandtIrene B. NirenburgCarnegie Group, Inc.5 PPG PlacePittsburgh, PA 15222, USAAbstractWhile complete understanding of arbitrary input textremains in the future, it is currently possible to constructnatural anguage processing systems that provide a partialunderstanding of text with limited accuracy.
Moreover,such systems can provide cost-effective solutions tocommercially-significant business problems.
This paperdescribes one such system: JASPER.
JASPER is a factextraction system recently developed and deployed byCarnegie Group for Reuters Ltd. JASPER uses atemplate-driven approach, partial understandingtechniques, and heuristic procedures to extract certain keypieces of information from a limited range of text.We believe that many significant business problems canbe solved by fact extraction applications which involvelocating and extracting specific, predefined types ofinformation from a limited range of text.
The informationextracted by such systems can be used in a variety ofways, such as filling in values in a database, generatingsummaries of the input text, serving as a part of theknowledge in an expert system, or feeding into anotherprogram which bases decisions on it.
We expect todevelop many such applications in the future using similartechniques.1.
IntroductionWhile a computer program that can provide completeunderstanding of arbitrary input text remains a distantdream, it is currently possible to construct natural anguageprocessing systems that provide a partial understanding ofcertain types of text with limited accuracy.
Moreover, suchsystems can provide cost-effective solutions tocommercially-significant business problems.
This paperdescribes one such system: JASPER.
JASPER (Journalist'sAssistant for Preparing Earnings Reports) is a factextraction system recently developed and deployed byCarnegie Group for Reuters Ltd. JASPER uses a template-driven approach and partial understanding techniques toextract certain key pieces of information from a limitedrange of text.
Specifically, JASPER takes as input a liveSteven P. WeinsteinReuters Ltd85 Fleet StreetLondon, EC4P 4AJ  Englandfeed of company press releases from PR Newswire.
Itidentifies which of those releases contain information oncompany earnings and dividends, and for those releases, itextracts a predetermined set of information.
It thenreformats that information into a candidate Reuters newsstory and ships it off to a financial journalist for validationor editing.
JASPER improves both the speed and accuracyof producing Reuters stories and hence provides asignificant competitive advantage in the fast-paced world offinancial journalism.JASPER gets excellent results in terms of both accuracyand speed.
It does this by combining frame-basedknowledge representation, object-oriented processing,powerful pattern matching, and heuristics which takeadvantage of stylistic conventions, including lexical,syntactic, semantic, and pragmatic regularities observed inthe text corpus.
The shallow, localized processing approachthat we have adopted focusses on the information to beextracted and ignores irrelevant ext.
The first phase ofJASPER has been deployed at Reuters for use and testing.It provides a low-risk and high-value solution to a real-world business problem.JASPER's architecture facilitates transfer to other factextraction applications; the domain-independent core whichcontrols processing is separate from the application-specificknowledge base which makes decisions about extractinginformation, so only the latter needs to be rewritten for otherapplications.
Still, the knowledge ngineering required tobuild an application is significanL We estimate that theJASPER application involved approximately eight personmonths in knowledge ngineering, apart from basic systemdevelopment.Many significant business problems can be solved bysimilarly focussed fact extraction applications.
Theinformation extracted can used in a variety of ways, such as170filling in values in a database, generating summaries of theinput text, serving as a part of the knowledge in an expertsystem, or feeding into another program which basesdecisions on it.
We expect to develop many suchapplications in the future using similar techniques.2.
Related WorkMost text understanding systems have generally falleninto two categories:?
systems which attempt to perform a complete linguisticanalysis of the texto systems which perform partial understanding toaccomplish certain specific understanding tasksMost of the linguistically-based systems perform a moreor less pure syntactic analysis and a semantic and/orpragmatic analysis to arrive at a representation of themeaning of the text.
TACITUS \[3\], PROTEUS \[5\],PUNDIT \[2\], CAUCUS \[9\], and the News Analysis System(bIAS) \[6\] all fall into this category.
The systems differ inthe specifics of the syntactic, semantic and pragmaticanalysis used and in the degree to which the different levelsof processing are integrated.
For example, TACITUS'syntactic step does enough semantic processing to produce alogical form; a second step performs pragmatic tasks suchas reference resolution.
Some systems base their processingon a particular linguistic theory; for example, CAUCUSuses Lexical Functional Grammar and NAS uses aGovernment-Binding approach to syntax and semantics.Other systems use more idiosyncratic approaches to theanalysis.These linguistically-based systems have a tremendouspotential for complete understanding ofa wide range of text,because, in theory, they do a complete analysis of the text.However, the processing of such systems tends to berelatively slow; in addition, these systems have tended to beused in research contexts in part because the range ofcoverage that they can provide is necessarily imited.
A fullanalysis of text that covers diverse topics or that must beprocessed at a high rate of throughput is not feasible giventhe current state of the art.Systems which do not attempt a complete understandingof the text, but rather focus on specific understanding tasksare more likely to result in deployable applications.ATRANS \[7\], the only major deployed fact extractionsystem before JASPER, is the most notable example.ATRANS operates in the domain of international bankingtelexes, dealing with one major subclass of such telexes --money Iransfer telexes.
ATRANS automatically extractsthe information required to complete the transfer (thevarious banks mentioned in the telex, their roles in themoney transfer, payment amounts, dates, security keys, etc.
)and formats it for entry into the bank's automatedtransaction processing system.
The understandingtechniques used in ATRANS are based on caseframeanalysis using the Conceptual Dependency formalism\[8\] which relies on semantics over syntax, and does notrequire a complete analysis of the text.General Electric's SCISOR system \[4\] uses a hybridapproach, combining syntactic and caseframe parsing.
Thisallows it to exploit he strong top-down domain expectationsprovided by caseframes to deal with relevant fragmentsfrom text that it cannot fully analyze, while at the same timegenerating complete linguistic analyses when possible.SCISOR is also designed so that general grammaticalknowledge and domain-specific knowledge are keptseparate.
This will greatly facilitate its transfer to otherdomains.3.
Business ProblemA major component of Reuters business is to providereal-time financial news to financial traders.
Corporateearnings and dividend reports are two routine, but extremelyimportant, types of financial news that Reuters handles.Publicly-traded companies must, by law, provide thisinformation periodically, and equities traders rely on newsservices like Reuters to distill the companies' reports andmake the information available within minutes or evenseconds o that they can use it to make decisions aboutwhich stocks to buy and sell.
It is imperative that thereports be generated very quickly and very accurately; ifReuters can produce important earnings and dividend storiesfirst, they will have the edge in the very competitive r al-time financial news market.One important electronic sources of earnings informationis PR Newswire, which provides a wide range of pressreleases on many topics to subscribers.
Figure 1 is a typicalearnings press release received through the PR Newswireservice.
Figure 2 shows the corresponding Reuters newsstory which a reporter would generate from this release.While the production of these reports is crucial to Reutersbusiness, it is a routine, tedious task which requires justenough domain knowledge and human intelligence torequire trained reporters.
JASPER helps Reuters produceearnings and dividend news stories ubstantially faster, withfewer errors, and with less tedium.
JASPER automaticallygenerates draft earnings and dividend stories from the pressreleases carried on PR Newswire and makes them available171/FROM PR NEWSWIRE MINNEAPOLIS 612-871-7200/TO BUSINESS EDITOR:GREEN TREE ANNOUNCES THIRD QUARTER RESULTSST.
PAUL, Minn., Oct. 17 /PRNewswire/  -- Green TreeAcceptance, Inc. (NYSE, PSE: GNT) today reported netearnings for the th i rd quarter ended Sept.
SO of$i0,395,000, or 70 cents per share, compared with netearnings of $10,320,000, or 70 cents per share, in thesame quarter of 1989.For the nine months, net earnings were $26,671,000,or $1.70 per share, compared with the first nine monthsof 1989, which had net earnings of $20,800,000, or $1.21per share.GREEN TREE ACCEPTANCE, INC.
STATEMENT OF EARNINGS(in thousands)Throe Months Nine Months9/30/90 9/30/89 9/30/90 9/30/89Earnings before incometaxes 16,903 16,785 43,360 33,825Net earnings 10,395 10,320 26,671 20,800Earnings per share: .70 .70 1.70 1.21weighted average commonsharesoutstanding 11,599 11,494 11,597 11,450-0- 10/17/90Figure 1: An example PR Newswire r leaseGREEN TREE ACCEPTANCE, INC <GNT.N> Q3 NETST.
PAUL, Minn, Oct 17Shr 70 cts vs 70 ctsNet 10.4 mln vs 10.3 mlnAvg shrs 11.6 mln vs 11.5 mlnNine MonthsShr 1.70 dlrs vs 1.21 dlrsNet 26.7 mln vs 20.8 mlnAvg shrs 11.6 mln vs 11.5 mlnFigure 2: An example Reu~rs news torytO reporters for editing.
Reporters need only check theinformation and make any necessary changes.In all, JASPER attempts to extract 56 different valuesfrom an earnings release, though not all of these will ever bepresent in any given release.
Most of the values thatJASPER extracts are numbers -- net income, per shareincome, revenues, sales, average number of sharesoutstanding, etc.
-- and most information types are reportedfor four time periods: the quarter just ended, thecorresponding quarter of the prior year, the fiscal year todate just ended, and the corresponding year to date period ofthe prior year.
Other information types have only onevalue; these include the quarter being reported (Q1, Q2, Q3,or Q4), the end date of the quarter being reported, the placeof origin of the release, the dividend, the date on which thedividend will be paid, etc.The JASPER system was developed between December,1990 and August, 1991.
The software was installed in earlyAugust, 1991, and reporters in New York and other Reutersoffices in the United States began experimental use of thesystem immediately.Results of this use have shown that JASPER does its jobquickly and accurately.?
JASPER processes the average earnings or dividendrelease in approximately 25 seconds.?
By the standard measures of recall and precision, thesystem is over 96% accurate overall in selecting relevantreleases for processing.?
By correstxmding measures for fact extraction, thesystem is over 84% accurate overall in extracting thedesired information from the selected releases.
Over90% of the values that JASPER places in the stories itgenerates are correct.?
JASPER handles 33% of targeted releases perfectly.
Ithandles 21% of all earnings tories with no errors oromissions whatever;, and handles 82% of all dividendreleases with no errors or omissions.4.
Technica l  ApproachUpon receiving a press release from PR Newswire,JASPER first determines whether it is "relevant" -- that is,whether it is one of the earning or dividend releases fromwhich we wish to extract information.
Carnegie Group'sText Categorization Shell (TCS)\[1\] is used to do thisselection.
Only about 20% of the information on the wire isrelevant.JASPER has a frame representation which defines thespecific information types to be extracted from relevanttexts.
These frames guide the remainder of the processing.The slots of the frame define what information is to beextracted and also hold information about how theprocessing for each slot is to be performed.For each slot in the frame, the system tries to matchagainst each sentence an associated set of patterns of words;if any of the patterns match, a procedure, or extractionmethod, also associated with the particular slot, is called todecide whether the patterns which matched can be used toassign a value to the slot.
The exllaction method maydecide that no slot value should be assigned, or it maytranslate the information that matched into a canonical formand store it in the frame.
Once all available information hasbeen extracted and stored in the frame, JASPER generates anews story from the information and makes the storyavailable to reporters for editing.Together, the patterns and the extraction methods makeup the application-specific rulebase.
The rulebase is tailoredto the syntactic structures and vocabulary that we haveobserved in our analysis of the corpus.
JASPER does not docomplete syntactic parsing or complete semantic analysis ofthe text.
Instead, it matches "sketchy" patterns, lookingonly for relevant words or phrases within sentences.
Theextraction methods too were written expressly to handle theforms that we have observed in PR Newswire texts.
Therulehase makes certain assumptions about the language itexpects to fmd in a text; while these assumptions are notalways borne out, they are in most cases, and JASPERreaches avery high level of accuracy because of them.172The input press releases often have a table along with thetextual part, as in the example in Figure 1.
The informationcontained in the two parts often overlaps, but in most casesneither the textual nor the tabular part gives all the requiredinformation.
We therefore xtract he information fromboth the text and the table and then merge the two sets ofvalues.
In this paper we do not discuss the techniques usedto extract information from tables.JASPER runs under Ultrix on a DECstation 3100.
Thededicated standalone DECstation has loose systeminterfaces to the PR Newswire feed and to a Tandemcomputer on which the reporters edit stories.
The coreextraction system runs in Lucid Common Lisp and uses theCommon Lisp Object System (CLOS) to represent itsframes.4.1.
Text Understanding Contro lThe control of the text understanding component ofJASPER follows a simple algorithm.
For each sentence inthe release, JASPER checks every item on an ordered list oftargeted information types, or slots, to determine whether avalue has already been assigned to the corresponding slot.If no value has yet been stored, JASPER tries to match thecurrent sentence against a set of patterns associated with thatslot.
If any pattern matches, tentatively identified valuesfrom the sentence are bound to pattern matcher variables,and the extraction method associated with that informationtype is called to interpret the results of the pattern matching.The extraction methods are application-specificprocedures associated with individual slots which use theresults of pattern matching to determine whether any slotsshould be f'llled and what value(s) should be used.
If anextraction method assigns a value to a slot, the slot ismarked as "done" and is removed from the list of slots to tryon subsequent sentences.4.2.
The Pattern MatcherOne important component of Carnegie Group's TextCategorization Shell is a powerful pattern matcher whichmatches complex patterns of words written in a specializedpattern language against text.
This technology is alsocentral to JASPER's fact extraction technology.
Thenetwork-based left-to-right pattern matcher includesdisjunction, negation, optionality, and skipping operators,and performs regular and irregular English morphologytransformations when words are specified as nouns or verbs.The following pattern illustrates the pattern matchingoperators:((profit +N !
earnings)(&skip 8 ($n ?mil l ion dol lar  +N))(&n (per share)))This pattern says to match either the word profit or profits(+!
; indicates that it is a noun) or earnings, followed withineight words by any number ($n), followed optionally bymillion, followed by dollar or dollars; and a match will failif the phrase per share follows dollar.
This pattern wouldmatch in sentences like the following:e ABC Company announced profits of more than 50million dollars last year.The pattern will not match in the following sentences,however:?
XYZ Company'sprofits will be 2.25 dollarsper share.?
XYZ Company announced that its earnings for the thirdquarter of 1990 will exceed expectations at45.6 milliondollars.The former sentence will fail because per share followsdollars.
The latter will fall because more than eight wordsintervene between earnings and the number,JASPER uses an extended version of the TCS patternmarcher for extracting information.
It not only provides aboolean indication of whether a pattern matched, but alsosaves the information that we want to extract from thematches as special variables.
A variable binding operatorwas added which can transform words matched in the textinto a canonical form or simply save the words thatmatched.
For example, this pattern(&if ($n) %number)will match any number and bind the number that matched tothe pattern matcher variable %numbe=.This variable binding operator can also canonicalizevalues, as shown in the following pattern:(&if(((fourth !
4th) (quarter !
qtr)) !
(Q4)) (%quarter = 4))Patterns like this one can match a variety of expressionswith the same meaning, binding a pattern matcher variableto a single form representing this meaning.
This patternmatches all of the following phrases and binds the variable%q.uazter  to 4 in every case: fourth quarter, 4th quarter,4th qtr, fourth qtr, Q4.
Once the crucial information issaved as pattern marcher variables, it can be used by theexlraction methods to fill in values in a frame representationof the text4.3.
Knowledge RepresentationJASPER uses CLOS to control the extraction processingand to store the extracted information.
Each type of releasefrom which we extract information -- earnings anddividends -- has a frame, or CLOS class, associated with it,173with a slot for each information type that JASPER extracts.Figure 3 shows a portion of the earnings frame.
{lEARNINGSnet-income-group: <net-lncome-group-obJect>current-quarter-net:<net-income-obJect>prior-quarter-net <net-income-object>currrent-ytd-net: <net-income-object>prlor-ytd-net: <net-lncome-object>;eri;d-reported: <period-reported-object>)}" " .Figure 3: Earnings Extraction FrameAs mentioned above, we are interested in extractingnumbers for four different time periods for manyinformation types.
The slots current-quarter-net ,pr io r -quar ter -net ,  cur rent -y td -net ,  andpr ior -y td-net  in Figure 3 represent the four slots fornet income.
All four slots are processed together using thesame patterns and extraction methods; in order toaccomplish this, a group slot, net - income-group  in theexample, is defined to hold the information required forprocessing these slots.
The individual slots correspondingto each time period then hold the specific values extractedfrom the text.Other information types have just one slot; for exampleper iod- repor ted  in the example represents he periodfor which earnings are being reported (QI, Q2, Q3, or 04).This slot contains the information about how to extract heinformation -- the pattems and extraction methods -- andalso holds the value once it is extracted.Each of the slots in the earnings frame in turn has a classas its value; these classes tore information about how to dothe extraction, and once information has been extractedfrom the press release, they store the value extracted.
Eachof these classes has the following slots associated with it forextracting from text:?
a set of patterns to be used for extracting informationfrom text?
a procedure, or method, for extracting information fromtext?
the value extracted4.4.
The JASPER Extract ion RulebaseThis section describes application-specific patterns andprocedures used for fact extraction.
In analyzing therelevant texts, we found tremendous regularity in thelanguage and syntactic structures used due to stylisticconventions followed by U.S. companies in reportingearnings and dividends.
The patterns and extractionmethods take advantage of these regularities, handling theforms that are most likely to occur in the text with a highlevel of accuracy, and the forms that occur less frequently ornot at all less accurately.The patterns used for extraction tend to match "sketchy"phrases, with skipping between the relevant elements of thepattern.
For example, in order to find the net income weneed to know that earnings are under discussion and weneed to know what the amount of the earnings was; we canskip over other irrelevant information.
A pattern like thefollowing was used for net income:((profit +N !
earnings)(&skip 8((&if ($n) %number)?
(&if (million) %mult) dol lar +N))(&n (per share)))The patterns and extraction methods follow a few mainstrategies, depending on the kind of information to beextracted.
Each of the strategies i  described below.4.4.1.
Extracting Information for Simple SlotsSeveral slots for earnings and dividends required a verysimple strategy.
The reporting period for earnings is anexample of this type of slot.
The patterns match simplephrases and bind a variable to the value to be extracted; theextraction method then takes the value bound to thevariable, canonicalizes it if necessary, and fills in theappropriate value in the frame.Below is the pattern for the fourth quarter reportingperiod:(&if(((fourth !
4th) (quarter !
qtr)) !
(Q4))(%quarter = 4))If this pattern is matched, the pattern matcher variable%quar ter  is bound to the value 4.
The extraction methodfor the repor t ing -per iod  slot is then called to fill inthe value for the slot in the frame.4.40.
Understanding Time Context in TextEarnings figures are generally given for four periods.
Inorder to interpret he numbers in an earnings release, thesystem must not only find the figures reported anddetermine which information type they refer to (e.g.
netincome), but must also know the time period they apply to --the current or prior year, and the quarter or the year to date.For efficiency and for accuracy in handing elliptical timeexpressions, we handled time phrases separately,maintaining a time context which is then used to determinewhich of the four group slots to fill with the figuresextracted.
This time context makes it possible to processpairs of sentences like the following:?
Earnings during the fourth quarter of 1990 were 50_5million dollars.
Sales were 74.3 million dollars.When JASPER processes the fh'st sentence it stores as the174time context in working memory the fact that the last periodmentioned was a quarter and the last year mentioned wasthe current one.
After the time context is set up in this way,the earnings information is invcessed.
The followingsentence gives sales information, but does not provide anyinformation about time.
Despite this, the persistent timecontext in working memory allows us to determine that theslot to fill is the sales slot for the current quarter rather thanfor the prior quarter or for one of the year-to-date slots.The extraction procedures for time handling useheuristics based on our analysis of the particular texts to behandled and on our knowledge of English syntax, semantics,and pragmatics.
While JASPER does not handle all timecontexts correctly, it performs very well on the types thatoccur in the corpus of PR Newswire arnings reports.4.4.3.
Extracting Numbers for Group SlotsJASPER uses the same strategy for filling in all slots inearnings releases that require number values.
We will usenet income as an example.
Net income has four specificslots to fill, one for each of the reported time periods; all arehandled together by the net - income-g=oup slot, whichhas a single set of patterns to match and a single extractionmethod to sort out which of the specific slot(s) to fill whenrelevant patterns match.The net - income-group  slot has two sets of patterns,informally called current patterns and prior patterns:* current patterns match a word or phrase like earningsfollowed at some distance by a number; the number isbound to a pattern matcher variable.
For example,((profit +N !
earnings)(&skip 8((&if ($n) %number)?
(&if (million) %mult) dollar +N))(&n (per share))).
prior patterns match, in different orders, a word likeearnings and a comparison word (e.g., compared,increase ... from, rise ... from, versus, etc.)
followed atsome distance by a number, which is bound to a patternmatcher variable.
The following is an example of onesuch pattern:((profit +N !
earnings)(&skip 8 (increase +V !
decrease +V)(&skip 8 (from))(&skip 8 ((&if ($n) %number)?
(&if (million) %mult)dollar +N))(&n (per share)))These two patterns match the net income from the currentand prior period in sentences like the following:?
XFZ Company's profits for the current year increasedfrom 45.5 million dollars last year to 50 million dollars.The time context described above is used to help determinewhich time period the extracted numbers refer to.Conflicts between multiple matches are resolved by aheuristic procedure which allows JASPER to handle verycomplex sentences like the following with perfect accuracy:*ABC Company reported net earnings of 50 milliondollars or 45 cents per share on revenues of 62 milliondollars this year compared to earnings of 55 milliondollars or 51 cents per share on revenues of 71.1 milliondollars last year.5.
Status and ResultsJASPER was deployed for testing and use by reporters inearly August 1991.
Reporters in New York and otherReuters offices in the United States are currently using thesystem as an aid in producing earnings reports from PRNewswire announcements.Accuracy tests run at Carnegie Group on a set of pressreleases that the system developers had never seen showedthat JASPER's accuracy compares favorably with theresults seen at the Second Message UnderstandingConference (MUCK-II) \[9\].JASPER also runs quickly enough to be used in this real-time application at an average of about 25 seconds perrelevant press release.
Reuters required processing to beless than 30 seconds in order for the journalists to get thestories out in the very tight timeframes they have to workwith.5.1.
AccuracyBefore delivering JASPER we ran an accuracy test on100 earnings releases and 50 dividend releases that thesystem developers had not seen or analyzed prior to the test.Accuracy scores were calculated by manually comparing thevalues extracted by JASPER with the correct valuesspecified by a Reuters journalist.
We measured accuracyseparately for selection of relevant releases and factextraction.
Results are reported below.5.1.1.
SelectionSelection refers to the identification of relevant earningsand dividend reports in the slream of press releases from PRNewswire.
Selection is measured with the standardmeasures of recall and precision.
Recall is the percentageof actual earnings and dividend announcements that theselection process ucceeds in finding.
If recall is high, thesystem is not missing many items that it should select.Precision is the percentage of announcements that JASPERselects that are actually relevant, i.e.
relate to earnings ordividends.
If precision is high, the system is not wronglyselecting many items that should not be selected.
Thesemeasures correlate closely with the recall and precision175measures used for MUCK-II, with only minor differences.The figures in Figure 4 are based on 1047 PR Newswirereleases, representing four days transmissions.
The"Expected" figures represent the number of relevant releasesactually present in the sample; the "Assigned" figure.srepresent the number of releases elected by JASPER.
Wecalculate overall accuracy as the average of the recall andprecision scores.Earnings Dividend CombinedExpected 115 25 140Assigned 117 25 142Correct 112 24 136Recall 97.4 96.0 97.1Precision 95.7 96.0 95.8Overall 96.6 96.0 96.5Figure 4: JASPER Selection AccuracyTo compare our results with those of MUCK-II, we havechosen the highest score for recall and precision for each offour tests: two tests each with two different data sets.
TheIn'st test on each data set was run "cold" -- the systemdevelopers had not seen the data in advance.
The secondtest in each case was run after the system developers hadmade some changes to accommo4ate the test d_ata.
The bestrecall and precision scores for each test do not necessarilycome from the same system.TSTI TsTI TST2 TST2With WithCold Changes Cold ChangesRecall 65% 85% 100% I00%Precision 100% 90% 100% 100%Overall 83% 88% 100% 100%Figure 5: Beat MUCK-II Selection Accuracy5.1.2.
ExtractionWe use two measures of accuracy for fact extraction:completeness and correctness.
Completeness correspondsroughly to the recall measure used in MUCK-II, and to therecall measure used for selection; it measures the percentageof targeted values available in the PR announcements thatare actually extracted correctly by the system.
A targetedvalue is one that should, according to Reuters practice andstyle guidelines, appear in the Reuters news story.correct values extractedcompleteness =total targeted valuesCorrectness corresponds roughly to the precision measureused in MUCK-II and the precision measure used forselection; it measures the percentage of times that a valueextracted by the system is correct.correct values extractedcorrectness =total values extractedJASPER was designed with an emphasis on correctnessrather than on completeness onthe assumption that reportersare less likely to overlook gaps than wrong values in thestory.
To compensate for this built-in bias, we alsocalculate an overall accuracy figure for extraction byaveraging the percentages obtained for completeness andcor r~tness .In the accuracy results given in Figure 6, the"Unadjusted" figures are the raw results of the test.
The"Adjusted" figures take into account ypographical errors inthe PR Newswire input (treating them in our favor), as wellas the judgments of the same Reuters reporter egardingpermissible deviations from his output.
The figures "WithChanges" are based on a second test on the same input aftersome changes had been made to the extraction rulebase.Unadjusted Adjusted withChangesTargeted 1549 1542 1542Extracted 1274 1275 1293Correct 1153 1170 1190Completeness 74.4 75.9 77.2Correctnes 90.5 91.8 92.0Overall 82.5 83.9 84.6Figure 6: JASPER Extraction AccuracyFigure 7 shows results from MUCK-II.
The best testscores from each of four test for their correlates ofcompleteness and correctness are given.
The completenessand correctness scores do not necessarily come from thesame system for any given test.
The four tests involved twotests each of two different data sets.
The first test on eachdata set was run "cold" -- the system developers had notseen the data in advance.
The second test in each case wasrun after the system developers had made some changes toaccommodate the test data, and so should correspondroughly to our lest "with changes".
While the MUCK-IITSTI TSTI TST2 TST2With WithCold Changes Cold ChangesCompleteness 44% 67% 68% 94%Correctness 93% 95% 93% 98%Overall 69% 81% 81% 96%Figure 7: Best MUCK-II Extraction Accuracyaccuracy measures differ somewhat from JASPER's, webelieve that they are similar enough to show that JASPERcompares favorably with the results of the systems whichcompeted in MUCK-II.6.
Conclus ionsJASPER shows that text understanding technology hasprogressed to the point that it can be applied profitably toreal commercial pplications.
However, the state of the artwill not allow the technology to be applied to unconstrainedapplications.
Instead, applications must be selectedcarefully in order to yield positive results.
Certain176characteristics of applications will make them bettercandidates for fact extraction using Carnegie Group'stechnology and, we believe, other technologies a  well:?
The events or reports have predictable components, orinformation types to be extracted.?
The information to be extracted tends to be expressedthrough an unambiguous and predictable, thoughpossibly wide-ranging, set of linguistic forms.Technologies like JASPER, which extract informationfrom text using shallow, focussed processing techniquesbased on complex pattern matching and heuristic decision-making, can be profitably applied to applications havingthese characteristics.
JASPER's accuracy comparesfavorably with other text understanding systems, and itsprocessing speed allows for real-time use of the extractedinformation in a time-critical application.
JASPER is adeployed system which solves a real business problem.
Webelieve there any many other such business problems thatcould be solved with similar techniques.
We expect o seethe deployment of many more such applications in thefuture.8.
Schank, R, C. Conceptual Information Processing.North Holland, Amsterdam, 1975.9.
Sundheim, B.
Second Message UnderstandingConference (MUCK-II) Report.NavalOceanSystemsCenter, September, 1989.References1.
Hayes, P. J., Andersen, P. M., Nirenburg, I.
B., andSchmandt, L. M. TCS: A Shell for Content-Based TextCategorization.
Sixth IEEE AI Applications Conference,Santa Monica, March, 1990.2.
Hirschman, L., et.
al.
The PUNDIT Natural-LanguageProcessing System.
Proceedings of the Annual AI Systemsin Government Conference, Washington, D.C., March,1989, pp.
234-243.3.
Hobbs, J., Stickel, M., Martin, P., Edwards, D.Interpretation as Abduction.
Proceedings of the 26thAnnual Meeting of the Association of ComputationalLinguistics, Association of Computional Linguistics, June,1988, pp.
95-103.4.
Jacobs, P. S. and Rau, L.F. "SCISOR: ExtractingInformation from Online News".
Comm.
ACM 33, 11(November 1990), 88-97.5.
Ksiezyk, T., and Grishman, R. An Equipment Modeland its role in the Interpretation of Noun Compounds.
InDARPA' s 1986 Strategic Computing Natural LanguageProcessing Workshop, Information Sciences Institute,Marina del Rey, CA, 1986, pp.
81-95.6.
Kuhns, R. J.
A News Analysis System.
COLING88,Budapest, August, 1988.7.
Lytinen, S. and Gershman, A. ATRANS: AutomaticProcessing of Money Transfer Messages.
Proceedings ofthe Fifth National Conference of the American Associationfor Artificial Intelligence, Philadelphia, August, 1986, pp.1089-1093.177
