XUXEN: A Spelling Checker/Corrector forBasque Based on Two-Level MorphologyAgi r re  E. ,  A legr ia  I. ,  A r reg i  X.,A r to la  X., D iaz  de I la r raza  A.,Maritxalar M., Sarasola K.Informatika FakultateaP.K.
64920080 DONOSTIA  (Basque Country - Spain)xabier@si.ehu.esUrkia M.U.Z .E .
I .Aldapeta, 2020009 DONOSTIA  (Basque Country)AbslractThe application of the formalism of two-levelmorphology to Basque and its use in theelaboration of the XUXEN spe l l ingchecker/corrector aredescribed.
This application isintended to cover a large part of the language.Because Basque is a highly inflected language,the approach of spelling checking and correctionhas been conceived as a by-product of a generalpurpose morphological analyzer/generator.
Thisanalyzer is taken as a basic tool for current andfuture work on automatic processing of Basque.An extension for continuation c lassspecifications in order to deal with long-distancedependencies is proposed.
This extension consistsbasically of two features added to the standardformalism which allow the lexicon builder to makeexplicit he interdependencies of morphemes.User-lexicons can be interactively enriched withnew entries enabling the checker from then on torecognize all the possible flexions derived fromthem.Due to a late process of standardization f thelanguage, writers don't always know the standardform to be used and commit errors.
The treatmentof these "typical errors" is made in a specific wayby means of describing them using the two-levellexicon system.
In this sense, XUXEN is intendedas a useful tool for standardization purposes ofpresent day written Basque.1 InlroduclionThis paper describes the application of two-levelmorphology to Basque, along with its use in the elaborationof the XUXEN spell ing checker/corrector.
Themorphological analyzer included in XUXEN has beendesigned with the aim of laying the foundations for furtherdevelopment of automatic processing of Basque.
The factthat Basque is a highly inflected language makes thecorrection of spelling errors extremely difficult becausecollecting all the possible word-forms in a lexicon is anendless task.The simplicity of English inflections made for reducedinterest in research on morphological nalysis by computer.In English, the most common practice is to use a lexicon ofall of the inflected forms or a minimum set ofmorphological rules (Winograd, 83).
That means that whilea great many language independent tools have beendeveloped for syntactic and semantic analysis, the samecannot be said for morphological tools.
In 1981, Kaplan andKay (Kaplan et al, 81) made a valuable contribution indesigning aformalism for phonological generation by meansof rules compiled in an automaton.
This idea would later befollowed up by Koskenniemi (Koskenniemi, 83-85;Karttunen et al, 87) in the two-level formalism.
Thecomputational model for two-level morphology has foundwidespread acceptance in the following years due mostly toits general applicability, declarativeness of rules and clearseparation of linguistic knowledge from the program.
Theessential difference from generative phonology is that thereare no intermediate states between lexical and surfacerepresentations.
Word recognition is reduced to finding validlexical representations which correspond to a given surfaceform.
Inversely, generation proceeds from a known lexicalrepresentation and searches for surface representationscorresponding to it.
The complexity of the model is studiedin depth in (Barton, 85), who with few exceptions agreeswith Karttunen (Karttunen, 83) in feeling that thccomplexity of a language has no significant effects on thespeed of analysis or synthesis.There have been many implementations of the two-levelmodel for very different languages, ome of them taking afull coverage of the language: Finnish, English and Arabicamong others.
Our implementation is intended to copeextensively with present day Basque.XUXEN manages user-lexicons which can beinteractively enriched during correction by means of aspecially designed human-machine dialogue which allowsthe system to acquire the internal features of each new entry(sublexicon, continuation class, and selection marks).Moreover, XUXEN deals with errors often due to recentstandardization f Basque.
An additional lexicon includesalternative variants to the standard entries and additional rules119model erroneous morphophonological hanges; this allows aspecialized treatment of "typical errors".Following are given an overview of Basque morphologyand the application of the two-level model to Basque, thenthe lexical database built as a support for this and otherapplications i described, and finally, the strategies followedin the design and implementation f the spelling checker-corrector.2 Brief Description of Basque MorphologyBasque is an agglutinative language; that is, for theformation of words the dictionary entry independently takeseach of the elements necessary for the different functions(syntactic ase included).
More specifically, the affixescorresponding to the determinant, number and declensioncase are taken in this order and independently of each other(deep morphological structure).One of the principal characteristics of Basque is itsdeclension system with numerous cases, which differentiatesit from the languages from surrounding countries.
Theinflections of determination, umber and case appear onlyafter the last element in the noun phrase.
This last elementmay be the noun, but also typically an adjective or adeterminer.
For example:etxe zaharreAN (etxe zaharrean: in the old house)etxe: noun (house)zahar: adjective (old)r and e: epenthetical elementsA: determinate, singularN: inessive caseSo, these inflectional elements are not repeated in eachindividual word of a noun phrase as in the Romancelanguages.Basque declension is unique; that is, there exists a singledeclension table for all flexionable ntries, compared toLatin for instance,which has 5 declension paradigms.As prepositional functions are realized by case suffixesinside word-forms, Basque presents a relatively high powerto generate inflected word-forms.
For instance, from onenoun entry a minimum of 135 inflected forms can begenerated.
Moreover, while 77 of them are simplecombinations of number, determination, and case marks, notcapable of further inflection, the other 58 are word-formsended with one of the two possible genitives or with asequence composed of a case mark and a genitive mark.
Ifthe latter is the case, then by adding again the same set ofmorpheme combinations (135) to each one of those 58forms a new, complete set of forms could be recursivelygenerated.
This kind of construction reveals a noun ellipsisinside a complex noun phrase and could be theoreticallyextended ad infinitum; in practice, it is not usual to findmore than two levels of this kind of recursion in a word-form but, in turn, some quite frequent forms contain eventhree or more levels.
This means that a morphologicalanalyzer for Basque should be able to recognize the amountof 77 + 58 ( 77 + 58 ( 77 + 58)) = 458683 inflected formsfor each noun taking into account only these two levels ofrecursion.e.g.
semeAsemeArlsemeArENsemeArEN etxeAsemeArENAsemeArENArl(the son)(to the son)(of the son)(the house of the son)(the one (house) of the son)(to the one (house) of the son)This generation capability is similar for aLl parts ofspeech.
In the case of adjectives, due to the possibility ofgraduation, this capability is 4 times greater.The grammatical gender does not exist in Basque; thereare not masculine and feminine.
However, the verb systemuses the difference sometimes, depending on the receiver andthe grade of familiarity: this is the case of the allocutiveverb forms.Verb forms are composed of a main verb and an auxiliaryfinite form.
The verb system in Basque is a rich one: it isoften found in a single finite verb form morphemescorresponding toergative, nominative and dative cases.Derivation and composition are quite productive and theyare widely used in neologism formation.3 Application of Two-Level Morphology toBasque3.1 The RulesThe correlations existing between the lexical level and thesurface level due to morphophonological transformations areexpressed by means of the rules.
In the case of Basque 21two-level rules have been defined.
These rules are due to thefour following reasons: eminently phonological (7 rules),morphological (3 rules), orthographical (5 rules), and bothphonological nd morphological (6 rules).
The effects of therules are always phonological.
Given that suppletion casesare rare in Basque, phonemically unrelated allomorphs of thesame morpheme are included in the lexicon system asseparated entries.
No rules deal with these phenomena.
Therules are applied to express three types of realizations: addingor removing a character, or alternation of a character fromthe lexical to the surface level.
These basic transformationscan be combined.In order to control the application of the rules 17selection marks are used.
Since two-level rules are sensitiVconly to the form of the word, these marks inform on part olspeech, special endings and other features needed for handlin~exceptions in rules.Examples of rules:2nd rule: ADDITION OF EPENTHETICAL e.2:e  ?=~ \[ C:C / 8: / 6:r / 4: \]8th rule: VOICING OF t.t:d ?=> \[ i&2: l  / n&2:n  / n2:n \]where C represents any consonant, 2 is the selection marlstated at the beginning of affixes requiring epenthetical e, 1is the selection mark stated at the end of those lemmas witlfinal au diphthong, 6 is the selection mark stated at the emof those lemmas with final hard r, 4 is the selection marl120stated at the end of verb infinitives with final n, and & is theselection mark stated at the end of place names with final 1or n which forces voicing of following t.The first rule states that the selection mark 2 is realizedas surface , always and only when it is preceded either by aconsonant or a selection mark 8, or a selection mark 6realized as surface r, or a selection mark 4.The second rule specifies the voicing of lexical t, alwaysand only when it is preceded either by a n or I followed bythe selection marks & and 2, or a n followed by theselection mark 2.At the moment, the translation of rules into automatarequired by the two-level formalism is made by hand.3.2 The Lexicon SystemAmong the morphological phenomena handled by oursystem so far, we would like to emphasize the following:whole declension system --including place and personnames, special declension of pronouns, adverbs, etc.--,graduation of adjectives, relational endings and prefixes forverb forms --finite and non-finite-- and some frequent andproductive cases of derivation and compounding.The lexicon system is divided into sublexicons.
Lexicalrepresentation is defined by associating each entry to itssublexicon and giving it the corresponding continuationclass.a) Sublexicons: Lemmas, auxiliaries of verbs and finiteverb forms, and different affixes corresponding todeclension, determination, number, verb endings, andso on are distinguished.All of the entries in the sublexicons are coded withtheir continuation class and morphologicalinformation.
At present near 15,000 items arecompletely coded in the lexicon system: 8,697lemmas, 5,439 verb forms and 120 affixes.
They aregrouped into 94 different sublexicons.
Within shorttime, this number will be increased in order to codeall the 50,000 entries present at the moment in thedatabase supporting the lexicon.
The entry code gives,when appropriate, information on part of speech,determination, number, declension case, gender(exceptional cases), relation (of subordination), part ofspeech transformation that a relational affix produces,type of verb, root of finite verb forms, tense-mood,grammatical person, etc.
along with the specificinformation each entry requires.b) Continuation class: Generalizations are not alwayspossible.
For example, while with nouns andadjectives the assignment of a single continuationclass to all of the elements of each category has beenpossible, adverbs, pronouns and verbs have requiredmore particularized solutions.
A number of 79continuation classes have been defined.The system permits the unlimited accumulation andtreatment of information as it extracts data from thedictionary according to the segmentation found.
This featureis essential to Basque given that: a) a large amount ofmorpho-syntactic knowledge can be derived from a singleword-form, and b) there is no set theoretical limit to thepotential recursion of genitives.Separated representation for homographs and homonyms-- in the main sublexicon, with the same or differentcontinuation classes-- has been made possible.
Althoughthis distinction is not necessarily relevant o morphologicalanalysis, future work on syntax and semantics has beentaken into consideration.3.3 Some Problems and Possible SolutionsAlthough until now, the notation and concept o fcontinuation class have been used, in authors' opinion it isthe weakest point of the formalism.
Specially in dealingwith the Basque auxiliary verb, cases of long-distancedependencies that are not possible to express adequately havebeen found.
Different solutions have been proposed to solvesimilar problems for other languages (Trost, 90; Schiller,90).
The solution suggested below is not as elegant andconcise as a word-grammar but it seems expressive enoughand even more efficient when dealing with this kind ofproblems.
To this end, an improved continuation classmechanism is being implemented.
This mechanism supportsthe following two extra features:bans that can be stated altogether with a continuationclass; they are used to express the set of continuationclasses forbidden further along the word-form (fromthe lexical entry defined with this restrictedcontinuation class).Examples:bait (PERTSONA - LA - N)this states that among the morphemes in the word-form following to the verb prefix bait  are to beallowed those belonging to the continuation classPERTSONA but also that further on in the word nomorphemes belonging to the continuation classes LAor N will be accepted.continuat ion class-tree: the lexicon builder hasthe possibility of restricting the set of allowedcontinuation morphemes for a given one, by meansof making explicit hese morphemes through differentsegments in the word-form; this explicitation is doneby giving a parenthesized xpression representing atree.
This mechanism improves the expressiveness ofthe formalism providing it with the additional powerof specifying constraints to the set of morphemesallowed after the lexicon entry, stating in fact acontinuation "path" - -not restricted to the immediatemorpheme-- which makes explicit that set in aconditioned way.Examples:joan NA TZAI 0 (I went to him)joan NA TZAI T * (I went to me*)etorri HA TZAI T (You came to me)etorri HA TZAI N * (You came to you* (fern.
))Long-distance dependency ases are found in the verbfinite form instances above: the initial morpheme na121(nominative, first person) allows dative morphemescorresponding to the third person after the morphemetzai (root) but not those corresponding to the firstperson.
Analogously the theoretically possiblehatzain* is not grammatical in Basque because itcombines two second person morphemes innominative and dative cases.
The continuationcorresponding to na can be stated as follows:na (KI (DAT23 (N_KE)), TZAI (DAT23 (LAT)))which specifies two alternative continuation "paths"allowed after this morpheme: the one including themorphemes in the continuation class KI and thatwhich includes those in the continuation class TZAI.In both cases DAT23 restricts the set of morphemespotentially permitted as continuation of those in KIor TZAI, allowing only the 2nd and 3rd person dativemorphemes.
Without this extension of theformalism, it would be possible to do it by storingrepeatedly the morpheme tzai in two or more differentlexicons, but this is not very useful when the distancebetween dependent morphemes i  longer.
Similarly:ha (KI (DAT13 (N_KE)), TZA!
(DAT13 (LAT)))is the way to express that ha (nominative, 2ndperson) is to be combined with dative morphemes of1st and 3rd person but not with those of 2nd.Continuation classes N_KE and LAT further estrictthe morphemes allowed conditioning them in thiscase to the classes KI and TZAI respectively.
Notethat in this example two different cases of long-distance dependency are present.4 The Lexical DatabaseThe lexical database is supported permanently in a relationalsystem.
This database is intended as an independentlinguistic tool.
Within this framework, information aboutthe two-level exicon system is stored in three differentrelations.Each lexicon is mainly characterized by thesusceptibility of its components o be the initial morphemein a word-form and by whether or not they are of semanticsignificance.In another elation, continuation classes are defined interms of lexicons or other continuation classes.
It ispossible to store examples as well.Finally, the main component of the database is the set oflexicons with their associate ntries: the two-level form ofthe entry is stored along with its original form, the sourcefrom which it has been obtained, examples, and in somecases (lemmas) the usage frequency.
Obviously, thelinguistic knowledge related to the entry is also stored inthis relation.A user friendly interface allows the lexicon builder to dothe operations of addition and updating of entries,consistency checking, etc.
in a comfortable way.
Selectionmarks depending on knowledge contained in the databasesuch as part of speech, subcategorization f nouns, specialendings for certain categories, etc.
may be automaticallyderived from the information i  the base.The production of the up-to-date run-time lexicon andcontinuation class definitions in the format required by thetwo-level system is obtained automatically from thisdatabase by means of specially designed procedures.5 The Spell ing Checker /Cor~ctorThe morphological nalyzer-generator is an indispensablebasic tool for future work in the field of automaticprocessing of Basque, but in addition, it is the underlyingbasis of the spelling checker/corrector.
The spelling checkeraccepts as good any word which permits a correctmorphological breakdown, while the mission of themorphological analyzer is to obtain all of the possiblebreakdowns and the corresponding information.
Languageswith a high level of inflection such as Basque makeimpossible the storage of every word-form in a dictionaryeven in a very compressed way; so, spelling checking cannotbe resolved without adequate treatment of words from amorphological standpoint.From the user's point of view XUXEN is a valid systemto analyze documents elaborated by any word processor.
Itoperates at a usual speed and takes up reasonable amount ofspace, thus allowing it to work with any microcomputer.5.1 The Spelling CheckerThe basic idea of accepting words which have a correctmorphological nalysis is fulfilled with classic techniquesand tools for detecting spelling errors (Peterson, 80).
A filterprogram appropriate for the punctuation problems, capitalletters, numbers, control characters and so on has beenimplemented.
In addition to the mentioned problems,difficulties intrinsic to Basque, like word-composition,abbreviations, declension of foreign words, etc.
have beenalso taken into account.
Besides this filter, interactivedialogue with the user, buffers for the most frequent words(in order to improve the performance of the system), andmaintenance of the user's own dictionary (following thestructure of the two-level lexicon) are the essential elementsto be added to the morphological nalyzer for the creation ofa flexible and efficient spelling checker.It is very important to notice the necessity of a suitableinterface for lexical knowledge acquisition when it comes tomanaging with precision the inclusion of new lemmas inthe user's own dictionary.
Without this interface,morphological nd morphotactical information essential tothe checker would be left unknown and, so, no flexionscould be accepted.
Currently, the system acquiresinformation from the user about part of speech,subcategorization for nouns --person or place names,mainly-- and some morphonological features like finalhard-or-soft r distinction.
So, the user, giving to the systemseveral answers, makes possible the correct assignment ofcontinuation class and selection marks to the new lemma.
Inthis way, open class entries may be accepted and adequatelytreated.
Entries belonging to other classes may also beentered but no flexions of them will be recognized.
Thisability of the checker to deal correctly with new lemmas122requires, in turn, certain grammatical knowledge from theuser.Our prototype, running on a SUN 3/280 and using abuffer containing 4,096 of the most frequent word-forms,checks an average of 17.1 words per second in a text with arate of misspellings and unknown words (not present in thecurrent lexicon) of 12.7%.
Considering the word-forms thesystem deems as erroneous, tatistical tests have shown that60% are actual misspellings, 16% would have beenrecognized had the general lexicon been morecomprehensive, and the rest correspond to specific words(technical terms, proper nouns, etc.)
which the user shouldinclude in his own dictionary.Within a short time minor changes will provide greaterperformance.
A PC version is also in use.5.2 The Spelling ConectorWhen a word is not recognized by the spelling checker, theuser can choose, among other options, to ask the system forsuggestions for replacing the erroneous word.
Thesesuggestions, logically, must be correct words which will besimilar to the word-form given by the user.To find similar words to propose, there exists twoworking lines:1) Using as a guide the "sources of error" described byPeterson (Peterson, 80), errors are basically of two types:- Errors due to lack of knowledge of the language: theseerrors are often not dealt with on the assertion thatthey are infrequent, but Pollock and Zamora (Pollock,84) evaluate their frequency at between 10% and 15%.Moreover, because Basque is a language whosestandardization for written use has begun only inrecent years, a higher degree of error would beexpected for it.- Typographical errors.
According to the classictypification by Damerau (Damerau, 64) 80% of"typos" are one of the following four types: oneexceeding character, one missing character, a mistakencharacter, or the transposition of two consecutivecharacters.Following that, n+26(n-1)+26n+(n-1) possiblecombinations (n being the length of a word) can begenerated; they must be examined to verify theirvalidity and the most probable must be selected.
Forthis examination it is normal to use statisticalmethods which, though not very reliable, are highlyefficient (Pollock, 84).2) Definition of a measurement of distance betweenwords and calculation of which words of the dictionary givea lesser distance with respect to the erroneous word (Angell,83; Tanaka, 87).
The most frequently used measure is the"distance of Levenshtein".This second method, measurement of distance, is slowerbut much more reliable than the first one, though it is notsuitable for a lexicon system where the words areincomplete, as is the case.
Due chiefly to this, the chosenoption has been the adaptation of the first method, takinginto account the following criteria:Handling of typical errors.
A linguistic studyhas been carried out on typical errors, that is, errorsmost frequently committed ue to lack of knowledgeof the language itself or its latest standardizationrules, or due to the use of dialectal forms.
To storetypical errors a parallel two-level exicon subsystemis used.
In this subsystem, each unit is an erroneousmorpheme which is directly linked to thecorresponding correct one.
When searching for wordsthe two-level mechanism is used together with thisadditional lexicon subsystem.
When a word-form isnot accepted by the checker the typical errorssubsystem is added and the system retries theorthographical checking.
If the incorrect form is nowcorrectly analyzed --so, it contains a typical error--the correct morpheme corresponding tothe erroneousone is directly obtained from the typical errorssubsystem.
There will also be additional two-levelrules, which will reflect the erroneous, but typicalmorphonological alternations in dialectal utilizationsor training periods.Generating alternatives.
Generating alternativesto typographical errors using Damerau'sclassification.Trigram analysis.
In generating the alternatives,trigram analysis is used both for discarding some ofthem as well as for classifying them in order ofprobability.Spelling checking of proposals.
On the basisof the three previous criteria, incorrect word-formswould be offered to the user.
Therefore, the word-forms must be ted into the spelling checker to checkwhether they are valid or not.The whole process would be specially slow, due mostlyto the checking of alternatives.
To speed it up the followingtechniques have been used:If during the analysis of the word considered wrong acorrect morpheme has been found, the criteria ofDamerau are applied only in the part unrecognizedmorphologically, so that the number of possibilitieswill be considerably lower.
This criterion is appliedon the basis that far fewer "typos" are committed atthe beginning of a word (Yannakoudakis, 83).Moreover, on entering the proposals into the checker,the analysis continues from the state it was in at theend of that last recognized morpheme.On doing trigrammatical nalysis a trigram tablemechanism is used, by means of which generatedproposals will be composed only of correct rigramsand classified by their order of probability; thus,correction analysis (the slowest element of theprocess) is not carried out with erroneous trigrams andthe remaining analyses will be in the order oftrigrammatical probability.
Besides that, the numberof proposals to be checked is also limited by filteringthe words containing very low frequency trigrams, andnever exceeds 20 forms.
At any rate, after havingobtained three correct proposals, the generationprocess will end.123If a word is detected as a typical error, it will not beverified as a possible "typo".
This requires theanalysis of typical errors to take place previous tothat of "typos", in spite of being less probable.
Thejustification is that we are particularly interested ingiving preferential treatment to typical errors and,what's more, these can be handled more speedily.The average time for the generation of proposals for amisspelt word-form, on the SUN machine cited above, is1.5 s. The best case is when three or more alternatives arefound in the buffer of most frequent words, and takes lessthan 0.1 s. The worst case, when no correct proposals arefound for a long word-form and when no correct initialmorphemes were recognized uring its analysis, takes around6s.6 ConclusionsThe XUXEN analyzer/checker/corrector has been de~ribed asbased on the two-level morphological formalism.
It dealswith Basque, a highly inflected language recentlystandardized.
At the moment a prototype of the system hasbeen implemented in C language.
This implementation is ageneral tool for Basque useful for texts written by any wordprocessing programme.As is well known, in the two-level model morphemesare stored in the sublexicons without alterations, unlike inother systems.
From a linguistic standpoint, he clarity andrespect for the lexical unit promoted by this way of focusingmorphological nalysis is of great importance.
However,long-distance dependencies between morphemes can not beadequately expressed by means of the continuation classmechanism.
An improved continuation-class mechanism tosolve this problem is suggested.At present, the lexicon system contains nearly 15,000items, now the coding of new iemmas in order to reach50,000 entries is being completed.
At this moment finiteverb forms (approximately 2,000) are in the lexicon,although they could be seen as analyzable forms.
These verbforms have been described by means of their componentmorphemes taking into account the long-distance dependencyproblems they present.
This have been done using theextension of the continuation-class formalism described in3.3 which is currently being implemented.With the lemmas and morphemes coded so far, XUXENis able to recognize approximately three millions differentword-forms without at all counting forms produced bygenitive recursion.
Considering that most of lemmas in thelexicon can take genitive suffixes, our presentimplementation of the spelling checker would recognizethousands of millions of word-forms.User-lexicons can be interactively enriched with newentries enabling XUXEN to recognize from then on all thepossible flexions derived from them.An additional two-level lexicon subsystem is used in oursystem to store the so-called typical errors.
Typical errors aredue often to the recent standardization f the language anddialectal uses.
This lexicon subsystem is used preferablywhen suggesting alternatives tothe user.AcknowledgementsProf.
Koskenniemi for his fruitful comments on an earlierversion of this paper.ReferencesAgirre E., Alegria I., Arregi X., Artola X., Diaz de IlarrazaA., Sarasola K., Urkia M. Aplicaci6n de la morfologia dedos niveles al euskara.
S.E.P.L.N, vol.
8, 87-102.
1989.Angell R., Freund G., Willety P. Automatic SpellingCorrecting using a trigram similarity measure.
InformationProcessing & Management, vol 19, nQ4, 1983.Barton, E. Computational Complexity in two-levelMorphology, 1985.Damerau F. A technique for computer detection andcorrection of spelling errors.
Comm.
of ACM vol.
7 pp.171-176, 1964.Euskaltzaindia.
Aditz laguntzaile batua.
Euskaltzaindia,Bilbo 1973.Euskaltzaindia.
Euskal Gramatika: Lehen urratsak (I eta II).Euskaltzaindia, Bilbo 1985.Kaplan, R. M., and M. Kay.
Phonological rules andfinite-state transducers.
Paper read at the annual meeting of theLinguistic Society of America in New York City, 1981.Karttunen, L. KIMMO : A two-level MorphologicalAnalyzer.
Texas Linguistic Forum, Vol 22, Pp.165-186,1983.Karttunen L., Koskenniemi K., Kaplan R. A Compiler forTwo-Level Phonological Rules in "Tools for MorphologicalAnalysis", Center for the Study of Language andInformation, Report No.
CLSI-87-108.Kay, M. Morphological Analysis.. A.Zampolli & NCalzolari eds.
(1980).
Proc.
of the Int.
Conference onComputational Linguistics (Pisa), 1973.Koskenniemi, K .
.
Two-level Morphology: A genera\]Computational Model for Word-Form Recognition andProduction, University of Helsinki, Department of GeneralLinguistics.
Publications no 11, 1983.Koskenniemi, K. Compilation of Automata fror~Morphological Two-level Rules.
Pp.
143-149.
Publicatiorn ?
15.
University of Helsinki, 1985.Peterson J.L.
Computer Programs for detecting anccorrecting spelling errors.
Comm.
of ACM vol.23 n~121980.124Pollock J., Zamora A.
Automatic spelling correction inscientific and scholarly text.
Comm.
of ACM vol.27 358-368, 1984.Ritchie, G.D., S.G, Pulman, A.W.Black and G.J.
Russell.A Computational Framework for Lexical Description.Computational Linguistics, vol.
13, numbers 3-4, 1987.Sarasola, I. Gaurko euskara idatziaren maiztasun-hiztegia.(3gn.
liburukia), GAK, Donostia, 1982.Schiller A. Steffens P. A lexicon for a German two-levelmorphology.
Paper ead at Euralex 1990 (Benalm,'idena).Tanaka E., Kojima Y.
A High Speed String Correctionmethod using a hierarchical file.
IEEE transactions onpattern analysis and Machine Intelligence vol.9 n%, 1987.Trost, H. The application of two-level morphology to non-concatenative German morphology.
COLING-90, Helsinki,vol.2 371-376.Winograd, T. Language as a cognitive process.
Vol.l:Syntax, pp 544-549.
Addison-Wesley, 1983.Yannakoudakis E.J.
The rules of spelling errors.
InformationProcessing & Management vol.
19 nQ2, 1983.125125
