Tagging and Al ignment of Parallel Texts:Current Status of BCPA.
WinarskeISSCO, GenSve*S. Warwick-ArmstrongISSCO, Gen~ve tJ.
HajieCharles University, Prague ~1 IntroductionAccess to on-line corpora is a useful tool for studies inlexicography, linguistics, and translation.
Many  meansof accessing such corpora are available, but few, if any,provide more than a language for matching characterstrings.
As a result, the user is obliged to spend a greatdeal of time extracting information herself.
As moreand more texts are put in machine readable format, itbecomes increasingly obvious that more specialized, in-telligent tools are required to fully exploit the availabledata.
BCP,  the Bilingual Concordancy Program underdevelopment at ISSCO, is an instance of such a tool.In previous work done at ISSCO on BCP, a ratheroversimplified view of text structure was taken \[Warwicket.
al., 1989\].
Attention was focused on the difficultiesof alignment and somewhat less so on access questions.Alignment remains a subject of active research, but ex-perience has proven that text marking and morphologyare not to be taken so lightly.
Indeed, many small dif-ficulties have shown themselves to be insurmountablewithout the aid of heuristic decision modules.
As a re-sult, the initial approach to text tagging and morphologyhas been thoroughly revised.2 Brief OverviewThe BCP package consists of four submodules: pre-processer, morphology, alignment, and access.
The textpre-processor, bcpmark ,  marks paragraph and sentenceboundaries, numbers, words, and punctuation.
Themorphological analyzer, bcpmor f ,  is built around aunification-based parser, and returns feature-structuredescriptions in SGML format, although the featurestructure itself is in a linear notation only.
The align-ment module is the subject of much experimentation a dcurrently is running with the Church-Gale alignment al-gorithm \[Gale and Church, 1991\].
The access module hasbeen described in previous work \[Warwick et al, 1989\]and will not be discussed further here.
The focus of thisabstract will be on bcpmark  and bcpmor f .
*Many thanks to Graham Russell for his invaluable adviceon this abstract.tISSCO, 54 route des Acacias, Gen~ve 1227, Switzerland"*Institute of Formal and Applied Linguistics, Faculty ofMathematics and Physics, Charles University, Malostrauskdn~n~st~ 25, 118 00 Praha 1, Czechoslovakia3 bcpmark:  The Pre-Processorbcpmark  is the first step in preparing text for the align-ment program.
It marks paragraph and sentence bound-aries, numbers, words, and punctuation, with the out-put in SGML notation, bepmark  is easily customizedto suit a particular text type or language via a user-defined data file.
Extensions and alterations to the dataare accordingly simple.
There are accompanying toolsto check number standardization results and sentenceboundary marking.
Languages currently supported areFrench, German, Italian, Czech, and English.3.1 Input  Textbcpmark  is intended to be usable on all text types, sothat entails a certain amount of flexibility.
Regardless,there are two major problems: no interpretation of theinput text, and the need to be "parameterized" for dif-ferent textual conventions.Problems instantly arise in conjunction with numbers,abbreviations, conflicts with differing punctuation con-ventions, and capitalization.
In particular, German nouncapitalization causes great problems to a system whichrelies heavily on capitalization marking sentence begin-nings.In bcpmark ,  the sentences are marked by either theonset of a paragraph marker or by encountering an end-of-sentence punctuation mark in the appropriate contextfor a particular language.
We define six contexts essen-tial for deliminating sentences:1.
Characters are always considered part of a word.2.
Abbreviations which can never end a sentence venif they are followed by a dot.
There may also becontracted abbreviations.3.
Abbreviations which in front of a number cannotend a sentence.4.
Words which followed by a number followed by aperiod usually signal a sentence boundary.5.
The sequencesingle-capital-letter, tapir alized-wordis normally not recognized to be a sentence bound-ary.6.
Certain words followed by sequences of the formnumber, cap i ta l i zed-word227(especially in German texts) should not be markedas sentence boundaries.7.
Words which probably do not start a new sentenceif preceded by a sequence number .
This is espe-cially useful for languages like German, which markordinal numerals by dots which do not indicate anend of sentence.4 MorphologyMorphological variations can be classified as inflection,derivation, and compounding \[van Gaalen et al, 1991\].An adequate morphology should be able to handle allthree.
There are several parts to the BCP morphology:the morphology grammar, the regular and irregular dic-tionaries, and the code.
There is also a facility for testingand debugging the morphology grammar.
The outputformat is an SGML-notation version of feature struc-tures, where ambiguous analyses are expressed in tagsraher than multiple word-forms in the text.5 AlignmentThe technique originally used for aligning texts was tolink regions of texts according to regularity of word co-occurrences across texts \[Catizone t al., 1989\].
Pairsof words were linked if they have similar distributionsin their home texts.
This strategy doesn't always workwell because in many languages a good writer does notuse the exact same word many times in a text.
Simi-larly, a good translator does not always translate a wordexactly the same way every time it occurs.
Clearly thisalgorithm is heavily text dependent.
For texts with lim-ited vocabularies this might work extremely well, but in"free" text it falls.Currently we are experimenting with assorted algo-rithms; a major problem is having good test texts torun them on.
So far the best results on reasonable textcome from the Gale-Church algorithm \[Gale and Church,1991\].
It has been tested on English, German, French,Czech, and Italian parallel texts.
The Gale-Church al-gorithm relies on the length of regions, where the char-acter is the unit of measurement.
(For details see theirpaper.)
We have experienced three problems with thismethod.
First, the implementation f the algorithm pub-lished in Church-Gale severely limits the size of the inputfile \[Gale and Church, 1991\].
This is, however, merelyan implementation problem.
Second, there is no wayto set "anchor points" and align around them.
That is,one cannot pick two anchor points, one in each text, andhave the program align the corresponding regions aboveand below the anchor points.
(See \[Brown et al, 1991\]for discussion of an alternative.)
This is not necessarilya problem either, and can be worked around.
Lastly, itdoes not give usable results on texts which are not abso-lutely parallel.
That is to say, on texts which do not haveexactly the same number of large regions, with the samehierarchical structure.
A single extra line of charactersin one text will cause a complete failure of the alignmentalgorithm.
This is a major difficulty.6 Conc lus ionWe are very happy with our marking program and ea-gerly anticipating thorough testing of the new morphol-ogy, especially with regards to extensive xperimenta-tion with German texts.
We are satisfied with the cur-rent alignment method.
We may also end up writing aparser to disambiguate he tagged text and this would fitin well with previous ISSCO work on unification-basedgrammatical formalisms \[Estival, 19901.
Clearly there isroom for expansion and improvement.The modular structure of BCP is a great strength, asit enables independent use of the modules.
Similarly, theaccess module functions to its full capacity on the outputof the other three, but can also be used on output of thealignment unit alone.
This great flexibility clearly lendsitself to ease of integration into other systems.References\[Brown et al, 1991\] Brown, P., J. Lal, and R.
Mercer.
"Aligning sentences in Parallel Corpora", Proceed-ings of the Association for Computational Linguistics.Berkeley, 1991, 189-176.\[Catizone t al., 1989\] Catizone, R, G. Russell, and S.Warwick.
"Deriving Translation Data from BilingualTexts", Proceedings of the First International LezicalAcquisition Workshop.
Detroit, 1989.\[Estival, 1990\] "ELU User Manual.
", Technical ReportFondazione Dalle Molle, Geneva, 1990.\[van Gaalen et al, 1991\] van Gaalen, M., A. Hugento-bier, L. des Tombe, S. Warwick-Armstrong.
"Termi-nology Translation Checking for Company X' ,  inter-hal ISSCO/STT proposal, 1991.\[Gale and Church, 1991\] Gale, W., and Church, K.draft version of "A Program for Aligning Sentencesin Bilingual Corpora", submitted to ACL 1991.
Seefollowing entry.\[Gale and Church, 1991\] Gale, W., and K. Church.
"AProgram for Aligning Sentences in Bilingual Cor-pora", Proceedings ACL 1991, Berkeley, 1991, 177-184.\[Warwick et al, 1989\] Warwick, S, J. Haji~, and G.Russell.
"Deriving Translation Data from BilingualTexts", Proceedings of the First International Lexi-cal Acquisition Workshop, Detroit, 1989.228
