Robust parsing of natural language descriptionsexpressed in telegraphic styleMichela Fasolo, Lorenzo Garbuio,Andrea MalanimaCentro Studi CERVEDomani, CERVED SpA,Corso Stati Uniti 14, 35020 Padova (Italy)Nicola GuarinoItalian National Research Council, LADSEB-CNRCorso Stati Uniti 4, 35020 Padova (Italy)email: guarino@ ladseb.pd.cnr.it1 IntroductionSublanguages represent an important application area forNLU (Grishman and Kittredge,1986).
Their syntacticsimplicity and reduced semantic variability provide clearcomputational advantages.
In the present paper we consider asublanguage currently used for official publication ofbusiness activities which is characterized by a telegraphicstyle typical of commercial ds.
Morphological nd syntacticill-formedness i very frequent within this sublanguage,hence a robust parser is a must.The corpus we have considered was extracted from theon-line archives of the Italian Chambers of Commerce, andcontains about 4 million descriptions of economic activities.They represent an important source of information about hestructure of the Italian economy.
Since our main goal isintelligent information retrieval, only a part of theinformation contained in the sentences i  considered relevant.Basically, the kind of information we are interested ininvolves nouns, prepositions and noun modifiers, andinvolves verbs only in their nominalized or infinitive form.The peculiarity of the parsing approach described in thepaper consists in the fact that we limit the syntactic analysisto the elementary relationships occurring among theseelements, discarding whatever is not recognized by themorphological analyzer and giving up the attempt oreconstruct the syntactic tree of the whole sentence.2 The sublanguageExamples of the sublanguage we are considering are reportedbelow:Produzione conto terzi olio di oliva.
*production (for) third parties (of) olive oil.
1Mulino.
Produzione di foraggio cereali mais.*Mill.
Production of fodder cereals com.La produzione, l'importazione, l'esportazione, il commercioall'ingrosso e al dettaglio di prodotti tessili in fibre naturali esintetiche  articoli per la casa in genere.1 The translation provided is rather literal, but reflects theungrammatical, telegraphic style of the sublanguage.
*Production, import, export, wholesale and retail trade oftextile products of natural and synthetic fibres and articles forthe home.As we can see, the utterances are mostly formed bycomplex noun phrases rather than complete sentences, inwhich the number of constituents and the nesting degreemay be rather high.
Ellipses of prepositions and/orcoordinating conjunctions are also frequent; the use ofadjectives i relatively poor, and, when used, they generallybind the technical component of the information; the use oflocutions with adjectival function is also common.
Finally,the usage of verbs is quite scanty, and restricted toconversational parts; lexical mistakes are also recurrent.In their basic version, these noun phrases are formedeither by a single noun or by a group of the form NI-P-N2(noun, preposition, noun) where N1 is associated with aneconomic activity, and N2 with the object of this activitylinked by a preposition, which is often absent.3 Syntactic analysisThe core of our approach is the extraction of elementarysyntactic relationships (ESR) from a possibly ill-formedsentence.
ESR's are described by a definite clause grammar(DCG), a fragment of which appears in Fig.1.
Due to thepresence of the special symbol skip in the right side of therules, this grammar turns to be a special, very simple caseof a discontinuous grammar (Dahl, 1989).esr(na(N,A))esr(npn(N1,EN2))esr(nn(N1,N2))esr(ncn(N1 ,C,N2))---* na(N,A).
% noun-adjective-.> npn(N1, P, N2).
% noun-preposition-nounnn(N1, N2).
% noun-noun--.3. ncn(N1,C,N2).
% noun-conjunction-nounna(N,A) ~ noun(N), adj(A).npn(N1, P, N2) -~ noun(N1), skip, prep(P), possible_adjs, noun~group(N2).nn(Nl, N2) -~ noun(N1), possible_adjs, noun(N2).non(N1, C, N2) ~ noun(N1), skip, conj(C), noun group(N2).noun group(N) -~ noun(N) I art(A), noun(N).possil~e_adjs --~ adjectives I \[ \]-adjectives --~ adj(A), possible_conj, adjectives.possib~e_conj --> conj(C) I \[ \]-Prolog expansion of the skip symbol:skip(S0,S2):- appond(S1 ,$2,S0).Fig 1 A part of our DCG grammar229The introduction of the skip allows us to ignoreunknown or ill-formed words, and accounts in a verycompact way for the positional variations of the structureelements.4 The systemInput text first passes through a morphological nalyzersimilar to the one used in (Antonacci et al, 1988).
Beforeundergoing syntactical analysis, the relevant phrasesoccurring within descriptions are isolated by taking intoaccount he coarse semantic trait (activities vs. activityobjects) of the nouns involved.
After a single description hasbeen analyzed by our grammar, ESR's undergo anintermediate processing in order to reduce morphological ndsyntactic ambiguity and to take into account ellipses andconjunctions.
These phenomena are handled by employingpreference schemes improved by semantic ontrol (Hobbsand Bear, 1990).Finally, ESR's are converted into conceptualrelationships by using a many-to-many mapping betweensyntactic and conceptual relations imilar to the one used in(Antonacci et al, 1988); conceptual relationships aresubsequently validated by using a semantic knowledge base,and finally merged into a semantic tree.
The knowledgerepresentation technique adopted is inspired by the ITLsystem (Guarino, 1991), where semantic validation reducesto order-sorted unification.5 Preliminary resultsA prototype of the system has been implemented onMacintosh workstation in LPA MacProlog.
It has beentested on a significative fragment of our corpus (about 2000descriptions inthe areas of agriculture and services).The output of the system has been manually tested by alinguist, for correctness and completeness.
Errors turn out tobe independent of the syntactic algorithm, and are mainlydue to (i) lack of semantic knowledge; (ii) lack of lexicalknowledge (unknown or ill-formed words); (iii) difficultieswith disambiguation a d phrase separation.The query system is now under development.As far as system efficiency is concerned, the timecomplexity of the whole analysis process seems to bealmost quadratic with respect to the length of the sentence,while the mean understanding time is well below 10 secondson a Macintosh Ilfx.6 Discussion and conclusionsWe would like to make clear that the approach we havepresented is seriously limited, by the fact that we are notable to fully exploit syntactic information.
This means thatcomplete sentences containing verbs and subordinate clausescannot be properly handled.
However, our experiments showthat the approach behaves well in the field of real businessdescriptions.Semantic knowledge plays a fundamental role in oursystem, as it has to validate the syntactic relationshipsproposed by the shallow parsing algorithm.
Currently, ourknowledge base consists of a taxonomy of 3000 concepts,together with 360 semantic onstraints for the conceptualrelations.
Although the current prototype uses a hand-writtenknowledge base, some techniques for semi-automaticextraction of semantic knowledge from our large corpus havebeen studied in our project (Velardi et al, 1991).
The idea isthat the non-ambiguous sentence fragments present in thecorpus capture specific word usage patterns, which, via ahuman-controlled generalization process, may generate thekind of semantic onstraints we are looking for to pu t in theknowledge base.A full syntactic parsing would be too expensive for largecorpora, and it would also fail to consider useful informationembedded within ill-formed sentences.
The encouragingpreliminary results indicate that our approach constitutes agood compromise between syntactic ompleteness andmeaning extraction.In conclusion, the shallow parsing algorithm we havedescribed may play a crucial role in order to trigger a boot-strapping process of knowledge acquisition, giving us somechance to overcome, at least in our domain, a major bottle-neck in natural language understanding.ReferencesVer6nica Dahl.
Discontinous grammars.
ComputationalIntelligence, 5(4):161-179, 1989.F.
Antonacci, M. Russo, M.T.
Pazienza, and P. Velardi.Representation a d Control Strategies for large KnowledgeDomains: An Application to NLP.
Applied ArtificialIntelligence, 2 (3-4), 1988.Jaime G. Carbonell and Philip J. Hayes.
RecoveryStrategies for Parsing Extragrammatical Language.Computational Linguistics, Special Issue on Ill-FormedInput, 9(3-4), 1983.Michela Fasolo, Lorenzo Garbuio and Nicola Guarino.Comprensione di descrizioni di attivit~ economico-produttiveespresse in linguaggio naturale.
In Proceedings of the 5 ?-Convegno sulla Programmazioni Logica (GULP "90),Padova, Italy, 1990.Jerry R. Hobbs, John Bear.
Two Principles of ParsePreference.
In Proceedings of the 13th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics (COLING-90),Helsinki, Finland, 1990.Ralph Grishman and Richard Kittredge ditors.
AnalysingLanguage in Restricted Domains: Sublanguage Descriptionsand Processing.
Lawrence Erlbaum Ass., Hillsdale, NewJersey, 1986.Nicola Guarino.
A Concise Presentation f ITL.
To appearin M. Richter editor.
Processing Declarative Knowledge.Springer-Verlag, 1991.K.
Jensen, G.E.
Heidorn, L.A. Miller, and Y. Ravin.
ParseFitting and Prose Fixing: Getting a Hold on Ill-Formedness.Computational Linguistics, Special Issue on Ill-FormedInput, 9(3-4), 1983.Paola Velardi, Maria Teresa Pazienza, and Michela Fasolo.How to encode semantic knowledge: a method for meaningrepresentation a d computer aided acquisition.
To appear onComputational Linguistics, 1991.230
