Guided Sentences Composition for Disabled PeopleRober t  Pasero  Natha l ie  R ichardet  Pau l  Sabat ie rLaboratoire d'Informatique d  Marseille CNRS URA 1787Facult6 des Sciences de Luminy 163 Avenue de Luminy - Case 90113288 Marseille Cedex 9 - France{Robert-Pasero,Nathalie-Richardet2aul-Sabatier} @gia.univ-mrsfrAbst ractWe present the advantages of guided sentencescomposition for communicating in naturallanguage with computers.
We show howguidance can be achieved by means of thepartial synthesis of sentences and describe ourapproach consisting in separating knowledgethat comes under different levels ofwell-formedness and coroutining theirtreatment.
This approach as led us to developin Prolog a software, ILLICO, allowing for theconception of natural anguage interfaces withguided sentences composition.
We present anapplication we have developed by means ofILLICO : KOMBE, a communication aidsystem for handicapped persons.1 Guided  Sentences  Compos i t ionWe may distinguish two kinds of communicationwith natural language interfaces :- a "free" mode : the user types entences withoutknowing the limits of the interface but he hopeshe will be understood.
Trivial reality : user'sfreedom will always be the freedom the systemwill grant him.- a guided mode : the system guides the userwhile he composes sentences.Unlike the "free" mode, with guided compositionusers quickly perceive the limits of the interface.
Thedesigner does not have to program all the expressionsor structures having the same meaning.
Unique formsand structures are sufficient.
He may forget he others.Guided composition isa powerful principle for naturallanguage interfaces to database and knowledge access,operating and command systems.
This principle canalso be applied to learning systems (natural languagesor formal ones like database or programminglanguages).Expected tbrmulations can be provided to the userby means of partial synthesis of sentences.
Thisprinciple was introduced by Alain Colmerauer withinthe French-English interface, Orbis, which wasconnected to a database on planets (Colmerauer andKittredge, 1982).
The same system is used foranalyzing a given sentence and for synthesizingexpected fomulations.
Orbis is implemented inProlog and illustrates in a convincing manner thepotential reversibility of certain programs written inthat language.We are concerned here with the partial synthesis ofsentence from left to right.
The main problem of thisapproach is that a word or an expression that has beensynthesized by the system (and selected by the user tocompose his sentence) must not lead to a future deadend.
Theoretically, dead ends may issue from differentlevels corresponding to the differents levels ofwell-formedness of a sentence: lexical, syntactic,conceptual nd contextual levels, in particular.As a result of formal language theory, we knowthat the emptiness problem is solvable forcontext-free grammars.
So one can take all the levelsof well-formedness into account simultaneously bmerging them into one formalism, a context-freegrammar with symbols reflecting lexical, syntactic,conceptual nd contextual constraints, as it is done forinstance in "semantic grammars".
This is the case inTennant's menu-based system (Tennant, 1984).The approach we have decided to follow is different.We are interested in (1) separating knowledge thatcomes under different levels (lexical, syntactic,conceptual) into distinct modules and (2) coroutiningtheir treatment in order to avoid dead ends along theguided composition mode.2 I LL ICOIn our approach, knowledge is separated into fourdistinct modules :- a set of lexical rules (the lexicon) specifiesexpected words and expressions ;- in a restricted version of the MetamorphosisGrammar formalism (Colmerauer, 1975), a set ofsyntactic rules (the grammar) defines expectedstructures of sentences and grammaticalagreements ;- by means of lambda-expressions operating on thesemantic representation associated with relevantsyntactic ategories, a set of semantic rules allowsthe production of semantic representations ;- a set of conceptual rules (the conceptual model)defines domain constraints and connectivityconstraints (Godbert et al, 1993).The algorithm for coroutining the treatment of thedifferent kinds of knowledge in order to avoid deadends along the guided composition mode is describedin (Milhaud et al, 1992).Our approach as led us to develop in Prolog asoftware, ILLICO, allowing for the conception ofnatural anguage interfaces with guided sentences205composition.
The following figure illustratesgeneral principle of the approach.I Syntactic Parsing/SynthesisrulesENGINEI SemanticrulesC User InterfaceI Conceptual IModelthe14 The  KOMBE SystemIn the framework of the EC TIDE program, we havedevelopped by means of ILLICO, a communicationaid system for disabled people : the KOMBE system.KOMBE is devoted to Amyothrophic LateralSclerosis (ALS) patients (Guenthner t al., 1992).
Inaddition to motor weaknesses, ALS patients, mainlyelderly people, suffer from diseases of the centralnervous system that entail increasing speechimpairment and aggravate their living conditions.They have not lost their cognitive capacities but areunable to speek and some of them are unable to writeand communicate only by eye movements.
For thiskind of disabled person, the computer-assisted ai sdeveloped so far offer the user relatively slowcommunication, composing sentences letter by letteror selecting apre-formulated phrase or sentence.
Somesystems include a dictionary permitting the user toselect whole words.
Guided sentences composition isa more convivial way for them to communicate.
Stepby step, they can select on the screen for selectingwords and expression dynamically s nthesized by thesystem.
Words and expressions generated by thesystem always lead to the construction of a lexically,syntactically and conceptually well-formed sentence.The following figures show an example of a partialcomposition of a sentence by an ALS patientcommunicating with a doctor.Salsie : Edition 6uldGeFonctlhhnement : 0 Llbre 0 C!
~) C2aeFou?&lo x6 lh  'P Yl bl q zl coe i r ' ce*i S - cold J  te k O .
d'6 I d ?Gkn6ralbeaucoup de dlfflcUlt~$ ~ \[Quillbeeucoup de mal I~beeucoup de peineboso|n ' Se (~:ettededesdes dlfflcultGsJ' ai I\ [ \ ]  E3 \ [ \ ]  \ [ \ ]  t' .
- I  t" e,,l (,- e,,l I,?,i,e;J I,*,,.)
\[~,;~iFonclioanlmenl : 0 LOire: G6n6ralo I ?
l o u obtealr: I l l  6 w ouurlrg 6 x lenCheri ;h  p y plier ILk q Z )rorl~eC r ' irbsenterf S Irofltert prolongerI-- I~eceook~- q redresserSaisie : EdiUon Guid~oO ci ?
c2j' al besucoup do dlffl?ull6l i I~3E3~3E3 f~-~fr~ ~ fn iq~For example, the patient can compose the sentence :J'ai beaucoup de peine d plier le genou gauche (It isdifficuh for me to bend my left knee).ALS patientscan compose sentences about several conceptualsituations.
The introduction of a new situation onlyneeds the definition of the associated conceptual modeland lexicon.
The grammar and the other componentsof the system are domain independent.In order to resolve the big lexicon problem, thesystem proposes several "sub-lexicon" of non emptyintersection.
This thematic division is built on treestructure and operates on the lexicon level.AcknowledgmentsParts of this work were funded by the FrenchMinist~re de la Recherche t de la Technologie(ILLICO Project) and the EC TIDE (TechnologyInitiative for Disabled and Elderly people) program(KOMBE Project).
Special thanks to Franz Guenthnerand Karin Krtiger-Thielmann for their contributions inthe KOMBE Project.Re ferencesColmerauer A.
1975.
Metamorphosis Grammars.Natural Language Communication With Computers,Springer Verlag.Colmerauer A. and Kittredge R. 1982.
ORBIS :Proceedings of the 9th COLING Conference.Godbert E., Pasero R. and Sabatier P. 1993.Specifying and Using Conceptual Constraints.Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference onHuman-Computer Interaction, Elsevier.Guenthner F., Krtiger-Thielmann K., Pasero R.and Sabatier P. 1992.
Communications Aids for ALSPatients.
Proceedings of the 3rd InternationalConference on Computers for Handicapped Persons.Milhaud G., Pasero R. et Sabatier P. 1992.
PartialSynthesis of Sentences by Coroutining Constraintson Differents Levels of WellFormedness.
Proceedingsof the 14th COLING Conference.Tennant H. 1984.
Menu-Based Natural LanguageUnderstanding.
Proceedings of the National ComputerConference.206
