Understanding Location Descriptions in the LEI SystemDavid N. Chin Matthew McGranaghan Tung-Tse ChenDept.
o f  Info.
& Computer  Sciences Dept.
of  Geography Dept.
of  Info.
& Computer  SciencesUnivers i ty  o f  Hawai i  Univers i ty of  Hawai i  Univers i ty  of  Hawai i2565 The Mal l  2424 Mai le Way, Porteus Hall  445 2565 The Mal lHonolu lu ,  HI  96822 Honolulu,  HI  96822 Honolu lu,  HI  96822Chin@Hawaii .Edu matt@uhunix, uhcc.
hawaii .eduAbstractBiological specimens have historically been la-beled with English descriptions of the locationof collection.
To perform spatial, statistical,or historic studies, these descriptions must beconverted into geodetic oordinates.
A studyof the sublanguage used in the descriptionsshows much less frequent than typical usage ofobserver-relative relations uch as "left of," butshows problems with name ambiguity, findingthe referents of generic terms like "the stream,"ordinal numbering of river forks and valleybranches, object-oriented prepositions ("be-hind"), fuzzy boundaries (how close is "at,"how far is still "north of"), etc.
The LEI systemimplements a semi-automated understandingof such location descriptions.
Components ofLEI include a language analyzer, a geograph-ical reasoner, an object-oriented geographicknowledge base derived from US GeologicalSurvey digital maps with user input, and agraphical user interface.
LEI parses preposi-tional phrases into spatial relations, convertsthese into areas, then computes polygon over-lays to find the intersection, and returns theminimum bounding rectangle.
The user is con-suited on unknown words/phrases and ambigu-ous descriptions.1 IntroductionMany biological specimens collected in the past 1 are la-beled with only an English description of their locationof collection.
2 To perform any statistical or spatial anal-ysis of this historical data, these descriptions must beconverted into geodetic oordinates (latitude-longitudeor UTM), a time-consuming process that requires eye-straining poring over maps to search for each location.1Current collectors can use hand-held satellite-based geo-positioning systems to record collection coordinates.2There are an estimated several hundred millions of suchlabeled specimens.To automate his process requires understanding the nat-ural language descriptions, reasoning about he spatial re-lations described by the natural language, and mappingthese into a geographical object base to derive the collec-tion coordinates.2 Previous ResearchTalmy \[1983\], Herskovits \[1986\], and Andr6 etal.
\[1986\]among others have documented the many problems in in-terpreting and using spatial prepositions.
For example, inand on have similar but different meanings: "in the car"means within the car, while "on the car," means on top ofthe car.
However, "on the bus/plane," means within thebus or plane.
Also, each preposition typically has severaldifferent meanings or usages.
For example, one says "athome," but "at the bank," and the meaning of "the planeis at Honolulu airport," is within the area of Honolulu air-port, but the meaning of "the dog is at the telephone pole"is not within the telephone pole, but near it.
These contextdependent usages make interpretation a d application ofspatial prepositions problematic.Kuipers \[1985\], Davis \[1986\], Peuquet and Ci-Xiang\[1987\], and Frank \[1991\] have investigated qualitativeand/or quantitative r asoning techniques for dealing withspatial relations.
Freeman \[1975\] and Mark and Frank\[1991\] have identified commonly used spatial relations.3 Characteristics of the DomainAlthough general purpose natural anguage processing(NLP) is beyond current state-of-the-art, limited domainshave frequently been amenable to NLP using specifictechniques because the domains use a "sublanguage,"a fairly restricted subset of a general natural anguage,which may have its own syntax and peculiarities.
In thiscase, an analysis of one thousand three hundred and fortysample location descriptions from the Bishop Museum'sHerbarium Pacificum collection (accumulated by abouttwo hundred ifferent collectors over a period of 160years) shows a highly restricted use of language that isamenable to understanding using specialized techniques.Because these descriptions are meant o be read laterby a reader who is not at the site, they contain very fewobserver relative descriptions (e.g., behind).
Also, there138are limits to the scale of the descriptions.
For example,out of a thousand escriptions that were located manually,about half of the descriptions were judged to be accurateto within 1/3 of a mile and 73% accurate to within 1 mile.At the other end, there were no descriptions with accu-racy in the meter range and the best descriptions wereonly accurate to within several tens of meters.A typical location description is: "Punaluu Valley;Castle Trail from Punaluu to Kaluanui Valley + stream,on E. side of Northern Koolaus."
Associated acces-sion information typically includes the date, collectorname(s), genus, elevation, the museum's collection um-ber, and the collector's accession umber.
This sublan-guage is made up mostly of named objects (e.g., "PunaluuValley" and "Castle Trail") and prepositional phrases(e.g., from Punaluu to Kaluanui Valley + stream, on E.side of Northern Koolaus).
The relation of the collectionlocation to the unmodified named objects is almost al-ways "within," that is, the collection location is within thearea designated by the named geographic object.
The in-terpretation of the prepositions i  somewhat simpler thanthe general case because the sublanguage d als only witha two dimensional cartographic space supplemented byelevation markings.
This sublanguage is relatively sim-ple syntactically, but there are still many problems forautomatic interpretation f the sublanguage.One of the most common problems in interpreting thissublanguage is the inconsistent use of names.
For exam-ple, Waikane-Schofield Trail also appears as Schofield-Waikane Trail, Schofield-Waikane Ditch Trail, SchofieldTrail, W-S Ditch Trail, Schofield Waikane Trail, andWaikane Ditch Trail.
A mountain like Kaala may be re-ferred to as Mt Kaala, Mt.
Kaala, Kaala Mrs., KaalaMountain(s), Mount Kaala, Kaala Puu (puu is the Hawai-ian word for mountain), Kaala Summit, or Kaala Range.Another problem is that names are often not unique.
Forexample, Manoa is the name for Manoa Falls, ManoaValley, Manoa Valley Park, Manoa Triangle Park, ManoaStream, Manoa Elementary School, Manoa JapaneseLanguage School, Manoa Tunnel, and Manoa Falls.When Manoa appears by itself, which Manoa is meantis usually clear from the context.
In many cases, thesame name is even used for the same type of object (e.g.,many cities have Elm Streets and Main Streets).
Luckily,similar objects with shared names tend to be geograph-ically separated, otherwise confusion would result.
An-other very frequent problem is missing names.
Collec-tors often use generic terms like stream and gulch to re-fer to landmarks that do have names.
As before, the con-text is usually enough to find the correct object referenceeven without knowing the name.
This heavy reliance oncontext for disambiguation is also a frequent problem forgeneral purpose NLP systems.A difficult problem is the interpretation of ordinalnumberings, which are used to differentiate forks ofstreams and branches of valleys.
For example, "3rdbranch S of S fork of Kahanaiki Stream," refers to thethird branch after the main South fork of KahanaikiStream counting from the head of the stream.
Unfortu-nately, this description could also refer to the 3rd branchfollowing the path of the collector going up the stream.Similarly, "Honolulu Valley, 4th small gulch," refers to4th small gulch counting from the open head of the valley,although this could easily be interpreted as the 4th smallgulch along some trail that might enter the valley fromsome pass over the mountains at the tail end of the val-ley.
Another problem is the occasional use of land cover-age types uch as "middle Metrosideros forest," woodedgulch," and "Fern Forest."
Not only do most geograph-ical databases lack land coverage information, but suchinformation changes frequently over time.
Also, descrip-tions sometimes refer to rainfall frequency, sun exposureor other ephemeral ttributes of the area: "in dryish for-est," "wet valley," deep shade in wet gulch," and "shadyhillside.
"Even after converting the location descriptions into theappropriate spatial relations, there are still many prob-lems in the correct interpretation of the relations.
Forexample, "along a stream" does not mean that the col-lection site was in the stream, but within some distanceof the stream.
The problem is what exactly is the valueof that distance.
Even cardinal directions like "north of"are fuzzy concepts.
The region north of a point can bebounded by two vectors pointing NE and NW (the trian-gular model), but this model fails when computing northof an object hat is elongated in the E-W direction.
Somespatial relations like "in front of, .
.
.
.
behind," and "be-yond" are relative to the observer's direction.
Althoughthese are not very frequent (only 25 cases in the 1340sample descriptions), they still appear.
Other spatial re-lations like "above" are dependent on understanding theslope of elevation around the object.To solve some of these problems, we have developedand implemented the LEI system to partially automateinterpretation of this sublanguage.
LEI is described inthe following section.4 The LEI System4.1 OrganizationThe LEI 3 (Location and Elevation Interpreter) system isan implementation f our algorithms for interpreting thesublanguage of location description labels for biologicalspecimens.
LEI is composed of four main components:the language analyzer PPI, the geographical reasoner GR,the user interface LEIview, and the geographic knowl-edge base GKB.
The geographic knowledge base con-tains an object-oriented description of geographical ob-jects such as valleys, streams, and waterfalls with theirassociated locations and names.
The user interface dis-plays maps and allows users to add or modify object lo-cations.
The language analyzer parses the English loca-tion description and produces acollection of spatial rela-tions that relate the actual collection point to geograph-ical objects.
It uses knowledge of geographical objects3Leiis also the Hawaiian word for "garland," typically madeout of flowers, leaves, or feathers.139and their associated names from the geographic knowl-edge base.
The geographical reasoner translates spatialrelations from the language analyzer into polygons andperforms polygon intersection calculations to obtain thearea specified by the spatial relations.
Each componentis described in detail below.4.2 GKB, the Geographic Knowledge BaseLEI uses three U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) digitalcartographic databases as the starting point for GKB, theGeographic Knowledge Base.
These include the DLG(Digital Line Graph), GNIS (Geographic Name Informa-tion System), and DEM (Digital Elevation Model).
Un-fortunately, these databases are not object-oriented, thatis, they do not  link the names in GNIS to the object loca-tions in DLG.
The GNIS database contains only names,USGS quadrangles, a feature class, and the coordinatesof the name as it appears on a USGS map.
The DLGdatabase contains a hierarchical organization of points,line segments (composed of points), and areas (composedof line segments) along with a two-level type hierarchycomposed of major and minor codes.
Unfortunately,the 60 plus GNIS feature classes do not correspond tothe over 200 DLG major and minor codes.
The DEMdatabase consists of a raster style set of elevation values.To convert he three USGS databases into a usefulobject-oriented format requires human intervention toas-sociate the names with the line and area objects (pointobjects are already correctly located by the GNIS coordi-nates).
This process uses the LEIview component todis-play the appropriate section of the map to the user, thendisplays names one by one along with the geographicallyclosest object of the same type as the name.
The user canconfirm the match, ask for alternatives, ormodify the setof line segments or areas to give the actual location of thenamed object.
In many cases, there are no correspondingobjects, so the user must draw the outline of the area fromscratch.
This is required for all valleys and mountainssince these are missing from the DLG specifications.Determining the closest object of the same type re-quires matching the GNIS feature class to appropriateDLG major and minor codes.
This is done using LEI'sown type hierarchy that includes type classes correspond-ing to each GNIS feature class and to each DLG majorand minor code along with many bridging type classesand higher level types.
Given a GNIS feature class, LEIfirst indexes into LEI's type hierarchy to find the cor-responding LEI type.
If this type has a correspondingDLG code, then that is the most likely match.
Less likelymatches consist of any subtypes that might have associ-ated DLG codes.
If there are no DLG codes at this typelevel nor at subtype levels, then LEI searches up the hi-erarchy for supertypes that have associated DLG codes.Using this algorithm, the matching process manages tofind the correct match most of the time, so the user's timeis freed to worry about he many missing entries and er-rors in USGS databases (e.g., rivers that extend into whatshould be coastlines, disconnected lines, etc.
).4.3 LEIview, the User InterfaceThe LEIview component provides a graphical interfacethat allows users to view maps; zoom; scroll; rearrange,add, and delete layers of the map (including DLG lines,GNIS names, and DEM elevations); search for named ob-jects; enter points, line segments, or areas for new ob-jects; modify existing objects; and view the results ofinterpreting location descriptions (both the English de-scription and the area resulting from processing are dis-played).
LEIview is written in C under X windows withMotif widgets.LEIview is used to associate names with object loca-tions in building the GKB geographic knowledge base.
Itis also used to display the results of interpreting locationdescriptions.
When there are sections of the descriptionthat are not comprehensible to the PPI language analyzer,LEI sends the description to LEIview, which displays thedescription with the incomprehensible parts highlightedand displays the regions corresponding to the understoodportions of the description.
The user can tell LEI to ig-nore the unknown parts of the description, delay process-ing this description until later, send the description backfor reprocessing, or add new geographic objects by en-tering new points, line segments, or areas and selectingthe corresponding words in the description.
Any new ob-jects are stored in GKB and the correspondence b tweenthe words and the new object are stored in the PPI lan-guage knowledge base.4.4 PPI, the Language AnalyzerThe PPI (Prepositional Phrase Interpreter) component isresponsible for parsing the natural language location de-scriptions and converting them into spatial relations.
PPIuses the PAU 4 parser and understander \[Chin, 1992\] tointerpret the English descriptions and convert hem intospatial relations represented in the MERA (Meta En-tity Relation Attribute) semantic-network-style knowl-edge representation la guage \[Takeda et al, 1992\].
PAUis an all-paths, chart-based, unification parser that com-pletely integrates syntactic and semantic processing.Figure 1 shows the MERA graph for the grammar rule,PP ~-- Prep NP (i.e., a Prepositional-Phrase i  a Preposi-tion followed by Noun-Phrase), along with its semanticinterpretation.
The node PP-pat represents he left-hand-side of the rule, and the relations Pea (pattern componentA) and Pcb (pattern component B) point to the compo-nents on the right-hand-side of the rule.
The Ref relationdenotes the meaning of the rule: a Geographic-object thathas a Spatial-relation to some other Geographic-object.The Unify relation between the Prep and the Spatial-relation indicates that the meaning of the Prep should beunified with the relation, Spatial-relation.
Likewise, theUnify relation between the NP and the lower Geographic-object indicates that he meaning of the NP should be uni-fied with the lower Geographic-object Figure 2 speci-fies the meaning of the Prep, "along" as an instance of4pau is also the Hawaiian word for "finished.
"140PP-pat Ref ~ Geographic-object\[Spatial-relationPrep N .~n i fy  \[Unify-""---,~ Geogtraphic_objectFigure 1: Rule for PP ~-- Prep NP.PP-pat Ref ~ Geographic-objectp reP~~Np /NearFigure 3: The PP-pat rule after parsing "along" and be-fore parsing "Ainapo.
"the Spatial-relation Near relating a Geographic-object toa Linear-object (a subtype of Geographic-object).Geographic-objectPrepword=alongRefNearLinear-objectFigure 2: The meaning of the preposition "along.
"The interpretation f the PP "along Ainapo" demon-strates how the integration of syntactic and semantic pro-cessing in PAU allows the early use of semantic on-straints to reject semantically anomalous parses.
"AlongAinapo" is ambiguous because Ainapo is both a trail andan area.
However, since "along" only applies to linearobjects such as trails, the Ainapo area interpretation isrejected by PAU.
This happens when PAU is applyingthe grammar rule of Figure 1.
When unifying the mean-ing of the Prep "along" (shown in Figure 2) with theSpatial-relation, the result is a Near relation.
However,the sources and sinks of both relations must also be uni-fied.
This changes the lower Geographic-object in o aLinear-object as seen in Figure 3, which shows the stateof the "PP ~-- Prep NP" rule just before parsing "Ainapo.
"In PAU, both meanings of Ainapo are tried in parallel.The area meaning of Ainapo is rejected because an Area-object cannot unify with a Linear-object.
This leavesonly the Ainapo trail meaning to parse successfully.Table 1 shows the spatial relations in PPI along withthe corresponding prepositions.4.5 GR, the Geographical ReasonerThe GR (Geographical Reasoner) component takes theoutput from the PPI component, which is a set of spatial141relations, converts these into polygons, performs poly-gon overlay operations to find the common intersectionof all the polygons, computes the center of the mini-mum bounding rectangle (mbr) of the polygon intersec-tion, then returns the coordinates and centroid of the mbr.GR like PPI is written in Common LISP and converseswith LEIview through UNIX sockets.The first step is the most difficult since there are nogenerally accepted algorithms for converting spatial rela-tions into areas.
For the spatial relations based on cardi-nal directions uch as East-of, Peuquet and Zhan (1987)give a complex algorithm for determining if one poly-gon is in a particular directional relationship with another.Their algorithm takes into account the shapes of the poly-gons (e.g., east of an elongated N-S polygon covers a dif-ferent area than east of a small point polygon) and con-siders polygons that partially enclose or intertwine oneanother.
Their algorithm isa refinement ofthe basic trian-gular model (in which North is the open-ended triangularregion between two vectors pointing NE and NW), butit still does not give any limits concerning the distancebetween the polygons.
Unfortunately there is no abso-lute distance that forms the edge of the region North-ofsome polygon.
In a sense, the edge is given by the limitof human sight in that direction.The algorithm currently used in GR for interpretingcardinal-direction relations around an geographic objectstarts by computing the minimum bounding rectangle(mbr) for the object.
The area next to the mbr with thesame size as the mbr is taken as the meaning of the spa-tial relation.
Since the resultant area is the same size asthe original object, this makes the meaning of cardinal di-rections relative to the size of the reference object, takinginto account the fact that larger objects are visible fromfarther away.
Cardinal directions relative to point objectsare interpreted asa square, 500 meters on a side, lying inthe appropriate direction.The observer or object oriented relations such asAdjacent-to ("beside waterfall," on Kona-Hilo Hwy"),Beyond ("1 1/2 mile beyond end of 20 Mile Road," "atback of Waihoi Valley"), Front-of (no examples in thesample data), Right-of ("right hand side of Kupu KaiGap"), and Left-of ("Kulani Prison Road, toward Ku-lani Prison from intersection w/Volcano Road, left road-Spatial-relation PrepositionsAdjacent-to adjacent to, beside, next to, onAt-elevation above, at, below, down, upBetween betweenBeyond \[in/at\] back of, behind, beyondEast-of east ofFrom fromFront-of before, \[in\] front ofLeft-of \[to \[the\]\] left \[hand side\] ofNearNorth-ofRight-ofadjacent to, along, around, at, by, near, outside \[of\]north of\[to \[the\]\] right \[hand side\] ofSouth-of south ofToward to, towardWest-of west ofWithin among, at, in, inside, into, on, on top ofTable 1: Spatial Relations and Prepositions in PPI.side") require understanding the orientation of the objector observer.
Currently in GR, only object-oriented rela-tions are processed.
Given an object with a front, back,and sides (left and right), the corresponding relations areFront-of, Beyond, and Adjacent-to (Left-of and Right-of).
These areas are calculated from the object's mbr in asimilar fashion to the cardinal direction relations.The At-elevation relation with respect o a given al-titude requires computing the subregion of the commonintersection area that is within 40 meters 5 of the givenelevation.
The At-elevation relation relative to an object(e.g., "above Schofield") requires computing the preva-lent slope of the terrain around the object.
GR takes a200 meter square on the up/down side of the object.Between, From, and Toward are handled by taking thembr of the two objects, then computing the two cornerpoints on each mbr that is furthest on either side fromthe line connecting the centers of the mbrs.
These fourpoints are then connected to form the area between thetwo objects.The Near relation is converted into a buffer zonearound the area.
Currently GR uses a fixed distanceof 200 meters for simplicity, however further study isneeded to determine if this corresponds tomost people'sinterpretation.
There may be individual, cultural, or re-gional differences in interpretation.
Also, the size of thebuffer zone may depend on the size of the geographic ob-ject.Currently GR does not handle references to terraintype, wetness, or typical sun exposure because this typeof data is not available in the USGS databases.
Refer-ences to ordinal forks and branches are assumed to startfrom the head of the rivers or valleys.
Generic terms arehandled after processing all other spatial relations by ex-haustively searching for any instances of the same type5USGS DEM data have a vertical resolution of one meterand a horizontal resolution of thirty meters.142(or subtypes) that intersect with the intersection of theother known areas.
In cases of multiple matches, the useris asked to help disambiguate hrough LEIview.5 Future DirectionsBecause collectors often collect specimens on trips (ei-ther day hikes or multi-day camping expeditions), ananalysis of the path of the collectors hould yield valu-able information about he location of collection.
Speci-mens are typically labeled with the collection date and thecollector's accession umber, which provides the relativetime of collection for specimens on that day.
This infor-mation can be used to disambiguate location descriptionsand to pinpoint vague locations.
For example, in Hawaii,there are not only two Waihee Streams, but also a Wai-hee River.
In a location description that mentions, "alongWaihee Stream," there is ambiguity as to which of thesethree waterways i actually meant.
In the current versionof LEI, disambiguation is possible only if the descriptioncontains more information that specifies an area that in-tersects with only one of the three streams.
By addingreasoning about ime using accession dates and numbersand combining this with reasoning about paths, LEI coulddetermine that it is unlikely that the collector stopped col-lecting specimens along one Waihee Stream, flew to an-other island to collect a specimen along another WaiheeStream, then flew back to continue collecting along thefirst Waihee Stream.This type of reasoning can also help to pinpointwhich part of Waihee Stream is meant by "along Wai-hee Stream."
If LEI knows that the previous pecimenwas collected at point A and the following specimen wascollected at point B, then LEI can make the reasonableassumption that this specimen was collected somewherenear the intersection of Waihee Stream and a region be-tween points A and B.
Using this type of reasoning, LEIcan even make a reasonable guess about the collectionlocation of specimens that have no location labels (pro-vided only that hey have an accession umber and acces-sion date given by the collector and the adjacent specimennumbers can be located).
Adding such reasoning abouttime and paths would improve the accuracy of LEI's pro-cessing.6 ConclusionsThe LEI system demonstrates the feasibility of under-standing the sublanguage used in location descriptionsfor biological specimens.
Although this is an importantand valuable task in and of itself, there is a much greaterpotential for application of the NLP and geographicalreasoning techniques demonstrated in LEI to other areassuch as natural language interfaces to general GISs (Geo-graphic Information Systems).
There is a need for valida-tion of these techniques and a study is currently plannedto compare the results of LEI with results obtained man-ually.
Finally, the problems encountered in building LEIpoint to several new directions.
First, the GKB com-ponent shows how object-oriented geographic databasesshould be organized in the future.
Second, many newstudies are required to determine the limits of fuzzy spa-tial relations like North-of, Front-of, and Near.
Suchstudies hould investigate ask dependencies, context de-pendencies, individual variances, and cultural/regionalvariances.
Such studies would lead to advances in under-standing human cognition of spatial relations that wouldbe directly applicable in GISs like LEI.Kuipers, B. J.
(1985).
Modeling Human Knowledgeof Routes: Partial Knowledge and Individual Varia-tion.
In the Proceedings of the Third National Con-ference on Artificial Intelligence, pp.
216--219.Mark, D.M.
and A.U.
Frank (1991).
(Eds.
), Cogni-tive and Linguistic Aspects of Geographic Space,Klewer Academic Publishers, Boston.Peuquet, D. and Z. Ci-Xiang (1987).
An Algorithmto Determine the Directional Relationship betweenArbitrarily-Shaped Polygons in the Plane.
In Pat-tern Recognition 20(1), pp.
65-74.Takeda K., D. N. Chin, and I. Miyamoto (1992).MERA: Meta Language for Software Engineering.In the Proceedings of the 4th International Confer-ence on Software Engineering and Knowledge En-gineering, Capri, Italy, June, pp.
495-502.Talmy, L. (1983).
How Language Structures Space.
InH.
Pick and L. Acredolo, Eds., Spatial Orientation:Theory, Research, and Application Plenum Press,New York, pp.
225-282.7 AcknowledgementsThis research was sponsored in part by the National Sci-ence Foundation B S R&SES Grant No.
B SR-9019041.ReferencesAndr6, E., G. Bosch, G. Herzog, and T. Rist (1986).Coping with the Intrinsic and Deictic Uses of SpatialPrepositions.
In Ph.
Jorrand and V. Sgureg (Eds.
),Artificial Intelligence II, Proceedings of AIMSA-86,pp.
375-382.Chin, D. N. (1992).
"PAU: Parsing and Understandingwith Uniform Syntactic, Semantic, and IdiomaticRepresentations."
In Computational Intelligence,8(3), pp.
456-476.Davis, E. (1986).
Representing and Acquiring Geo-graphic Knowledge.
Morgan Kaufman, Los Altos,CA.Frank, A.
(1991).
Qualitative Reasoning about CardinalDirections.
In D. Mark and D. White (Eds), Pro-ceedings of Autocarto 10, pp.
148-167.Freeman, J.
(1975).
The Modeling of Spatial Relations.In Computer Graphics and Image Processing, 4, pp.156--171.Herskovits, A.
(1986).
Language and Spatial Cogni-tion.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.143
