An Inheritance-based Lexicon for Message UnderstandingSystemsLynne J. CahUl*School of Cognitive and Computing SciencesUniversity of SussexFalmer, Brighton BN1 9QH, UKlynneca@cogs, susx .
ac .
ukIntroductionPOETIC (POrtable Extendable Traffic InformationCollator)* (Gaizauskas et al, 1992) is a prototype systemwhich analyses police reports of traffic incidents, builds apicture of the incident and broadcasts advisory messagesautomatically to motorists if necessary.
The front end ofthe system can be viewed as a message understandingsystem, comprising two distinct components: a messageanalyser which is essentially a chart parser and whichreturns predicate calculus type semantic representationsof fragmented parses of the input, and a discourse in-terpreter, which puts the fragmented parser output backtogether, and incorporates the new information into theknowledge it already has about the incident.The message understanding part of the system wasadapted to the domain of commercial joint ventures(henceforth :IV) and enteredfor the fifth message under-standing conference competition, sponsored by ARPA 2(Gaizauskas et al, 1994).
On the principal evaluationmetric, the system fell in the third rank of seven statisti-caily significant rankings with only three of the thirteensystems in its group performing significantly better, apleasing result given the short time spent on the conver-sion to a completely different domain.One of the main aims of the POETIC project was todevelop an existing system (the TIC - Traffic Informa-tion Collator) to make it more readily portable to newpolice force sub domains, and increase xtendability thusimproving ease of maintenance.
The level of success ofthis aim was tested by the conversion to the :iV domain.The approach taken was to extract all domain specificknowledge into declarative knowledge bases and to de-velop these knowledge bases in such a way as to makethem easily adaptable.Naturally, one of the main areas of domain specificknowledge was the lexicon, which had to provide the,occasionally very specialised, words and expressions spe-* I would like to acknowledge the contribution to thiswork of my colleagues on the project, Roger Evans andRobert Gaizauskas.IThe POETIC project was funded jointly by the UKSERC and the DTI, under grant number IED4/1/1834,with Racal Research Ltd, the Automobile Associationand NTL.2Sussex participation supported by ARPA, the Uni-versity of Sussex, Racal Research Ltd. and Integral So-lutions Ltd.cific to the domain in question.
In this paper, we discussthe lexicon system developed in POETIC and its con-version to use in the JV task.The input to the POETIC system was verbatim po-lice radio reports of traffic incidents, frequently in non-standard, ungrammatical or telegrammatic English, withextensive use of jargon and abbreviations.
For the MUC-5 task, the input was "full" English newswire reports.The parsing processOne of the novel aspects of the POETIC system is itsoverall approach to the parsing process.
While a fullparse of each input string is attempted, it is not required,or even expected.
The parser returns fragmented analy-ses, which are then incorporated by a knowledge-baseddiscourse interpreter into an overall picture of the inci-dent being analysed.
This means that the grammar isnot required be able to cope with all possible input con-structions, and that the lexicon does not have to haveanything like total coverage.
This was vital for the PO-ETIC task since the input is frequently not in grammat-ical English, and spelling errors and typos, as well asnew/unknown words are likely to occur, but much lesslikely to be needed.The three-tier lexiconIn POETIC, a three tier lexicon system was used, in or-der to maximise modularity and minimise lookup in verylarge wide coverage lexicons.
The first and smallest ofthe tiers consisted of the lexicon specific to an individ-ual police force sublanguage.
The language used by UKpolice forces is largely the same, but there are a few, of-ten crucial, differences.
For instance, the Sussex policeforce use the word 'black' to describe a fatal accident;the Metropolitan police force, in contrast, use the word'black' to describe severe traffic congestion.The second tier contained words which were specificto the traffic domain but shared across police forces, suchas ' r ta '  (road traffic accident) and 'hgv' (heavy goods ve-hicle).
These first two tiers were consulted in the firststage of parsing, and all possible analyses with thesewords were found.
Only then was the third tier con-sulted, a general English lexicon containing basic syntaxfor around 7000 common English words.
In order toprevent excessive consultation of this lexicon, those verycommon words in the data were included in the secondtier.211Porting to a new police force domain therefore meantjust altering the first tier of the lexicon, which containedaround 100 words.
The second tier contained around1000 words.
The total lexical coverage was relativelysmall, being around 8000, but this was because of theoverall parsing strategy.For the JV domain, the three tier lexicon structurewas not needed, simply two-tiers: domain specific andgeneral English.
After a simple word frequency analy-sis of the test corpus (around 400,000 words), all thosewords which appeared more than 100 times were in-cluded in the lexicon.
Subsequently important wordswhich had not reached that threshold were added.In addition to these lexicons, there were databases ofroad and place names in POETIC and place and com-pany names in the MUC-5 task.
These had to be usedwith great care, due to their vastness and unreliability.Many important place names had several entries (e.g.Washington had 26) and some were the same as ordi-nary English words (e.g.
'Was', 'Of').The inheritance based lexiconThe two domain specific tiers of the POETIC lexiconwere written in DATR - an inheritance-based lexicalrepresentation language ((Evans and Gazdar, 1989a),(Evans and Gazdar, 1989b); for more about the devel-opment of the lexicon (Cahill and Evans, 1990), (Cahill,1993)).
The reasons for this were three-fold.
First, oneaim was to see how well suited the DATR language was toa relatively large-scale practical application.
Secondly,it permitted the use of the two tiers without any im-plications for processing, since the two DATR theoriescould be compiled into a single lexicon for use at run-time.
Thus, the domain specific part of the lexicon couldbe maintainedseparately, while being accessed as part ofthe main traffic lexicon.
Finally, and most importantly,due to its hierarchical structure and inheritance mecha-nisms, the DATR language permitted much easier exten-sion and adaptation of the lexicon, since changes affect-ing several entries could frequently be made at only onenode at a high point in the hierarchy.
Also, in a numberof significant cases, it was possible to add a whole set ofrelated entries very easily, only having to give minimal(sometimes even zero) individual information for eachentry, all members of the set inheriting their main in-formation from a common abstract node.
Examples ofthis sort of thing in the POETIC domain are makes ofcar (e.g.
'Volvo'), all of which inherit all of their infor-mation from a single "CAR" node.
In the JV domain,currencies inherit most of their information from a sin-gle "CURRENCY" node, with the individual currencyname being the only piece of individual information.ResultsThe lexicons used in the message understanding tasks de-scribed were both very small by most people's tandards.The MUC-5 lexicon contained only 850 entries, while thePOETIC lexicon contained just over 1000 entries.
Evenwith the 7000-word general lexicon of English these arenot large numbers by current hinking.
The performancelevels achieved with such small lexicons leads one to askwhether effort directed at constructing vast lexicons forNLP systems is genuinely worthwhile.
Zipf's law statesthat, after a certain threshold, marginal cost (of increas-ing lexicon size) outweighs marginal utility (in terms ofthe frequency of occurrence of the additional entries).Although the 850 word lexicon for the MUC-5 task couldundoubtedly be increased resulting in an improvement inperformance of the system overall, the precise amountthat it is worth increasing it by is debatable.In the POETIC task, the question is even more glar-ing.
There is a much broader range of information re-quired in the MUG-5 task, and even though a very wide(possibly infinite) range of information may show up inthe police logs, the range with which the POETIC sys-tem is expected to deal is strictly limited.
It is extremelyunlikely, therefore, that any significant improvement inthe system as a whole would result from a great increasein the size of the lexicon.What is clear is that far more important than thesize and coverage of the lexicons used in such systemsis the means of dealing with the cases of unrecognisedwords or phrases.
The POETIC approach, fragmentedparses pieced together by a knowledge driven discourseinterpreter, can clearly be very effective.
One advantageof such an approach is obvious - the time consumingand dreary task of adding thousands of lexical entriescan be avoided.
Even if automated lexical acquisition(which is not obviously feasible in many cases, such asthe POETIC lexicon) can remove that problem, there isstill the question of the efficiency of a system which mustperform lexical lookup on a vast dictionary, followed bydetermining which of the possibly many anaiyses is themost appropriate.ReferencesCahill, L. J.
1993.
Some Reflections on the Conversionof the TIC lexicon to DATR.
In Briscoe, de Paivaand Copestake (eds.)
Inheritance, Defaults and theLexicon.Cahill, L. J. and R. Evans.
1990.
An Application ofDATR: The TIC Lexicon.
In Proceedings of the 9thEuropean Conference on Artificial Intelligence, pp.120-125, Stockholm, 1990.Evans, R. and G. Gazdar.
1989.
Inference in DATR.In Proceedings of the Fourth Conference of the Eu-ropean Chapter of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, 1989.Evans, R. and G. Gazdar.
1989.
The semantics of DATR.In A. Cohn (ed.)
Proceedings of the Seventh Confer-ence of the Society for the Study of Artificial Intel-ligence and Simulation of Behaviour, pp.
79-87, Pit-man, London, 1989.Gaizausk_as, R., L. J. Cahill and R. Evans.
1994.
SussexUniversity: Description of the Sussex System Used forMUC-5.
In Proceedings of the Fifth Message Under-standing Conference (MUC-5), Morgan Kaufmann,1994.Gaizauskas, R. J. and R. Evans and L. J. Cahill.
1992.POETIC: A System for Gathering and DisseminatingTraffic Information.
In Proceedings of the Interna-tional Conference on Artificial Intelligence Applica-tions in Transportation Engineering, San Buenaven-tufa, California, June 1992.212
