Termight: Ident i fy ing  and Trans la t ing  Technica l  Termino logyIdo Dagan* Ken ChurchAT&T Bell Laboratories600 Mountain Ave.Murray Hill, NJ 07974, USAdagan~bimacs, cs.
biu.
ac.
ilkwc@research, att.
comAbstractWe propose a semi-automatic tool, ter-might, that helps professional translatorsand terminologists identify technical termsand their translations.
The tool makesuse of part-of-speech tagging and word-alignment programs to extract candidateterms and their translations.
Although theextraction programs are far from perfect,it isn't too hard for the user to filter outthe wheat from the chaff.
The extractionalgorithms emphasize completeness.
Alter-native proposals are likely to miss impor-tant but infrequent terms/translations.
Toreduce the burden on the user during thefiltering phase, candidates are presented ina convenient order, along with some usefulconcordance evidence, in an interface thatis designed to minimize keystrokes.
Ter-might is currently being used by the trans-lators at ATT Business Translation Ser-vices (formerly AT&T Language Line Ser-vices).1 Terminology: An Application forNatural Language TechnologyThe statistical corpus-based renaissance in compu-tational linguistics has produced a number of in-teresting technologies, including part-of-speech tag-ging and bilingual word alignment.
Unfortunately,these technologies are still not as widely deployedin practical applications as they might be.
Part-of-speech taggers are used in a few applications, suchas speech synthesis (Sproat et al, 1992) and ques-tion answering (Kupiec, 1993b).
Word alignment isnewer, found only in a few places (Gale and Church,1991a; Brown et al, 1993; Dagan et al, 1993).
Itis used at IBM for estimating parameters of theirstatistical machine translation prototype (Brown et*Author's current address: Dept.
of Mathematicsand Computer Science, Bar Ilan University, Ramat Gan52900, Israel.al., 1993).
We suggest hat part of speech taggingand word alignment could have an important role inglossary construction for translation.Glossaries are extremely important for transla-tion.
How would Microsoft, or some other soft-ware vendor, want the term "Character menu" tobe translated in their manuals?
Technical terms aredifficult for translators because they are generallynot as familiar with the subject domain as eitherthe author of the source text or the reader of thetarget text.
In many cases, there may be a num-ber of acceptable translations, but it is importantfor the sake of consistency to standardize on a singleone.
It would be unacceptable for a manual to usea variety of synonyms for a particular menu or but-ton.
Customarily, translation houses make extensivejob-specific glossaries to ensure consistency and cor-rectness of technical terminology for large jobs.A glossary is a list of terms and their translations.
1We will subdivide the task of constructing a glossaryinto two subtasks: (1) generating a list of terms, and(2) finding the translation equivalents.
The first taskwill be referred to as the monolingual task and thesecond as the bilingual task.How should a glossary be constructed?
Transla-tion schools teach their students to read as muchbackground material as possible in both the sourceand target languages, an extremely time-consumingprocess, as the introduction to Hann's (1992, p. 8)text on technical translation indicates:Contrary to popular opinion, the job ofa technical translator has little in com-mon with other linguistic professions, uchas literature translation, foreign correspon-dence or interpreting.
Apart from an ex-pert knowledge of both languages..., allthat is required for the latter professions ia few general dictionaries, whereas a tech-nical translator needs a whole library ofspecialized ictionaries, encyclopedias and1The source and target fields are standard, thoughmany other fields can also be found, e.g., usage notes,part of speech constraints, comments, etc.34technical literature in both languages; heis more concerned with the exact meaningsof terms than with stylistic considerationsand his profession requires certain 'detec-tive' skills as well as linguistic and literaryones.
Beginners in this profession have anespecially hard time...
This book attemptsto meet his requirement.Unfortunately, the academic prescriptions are of-ten too expensive for commercial practice.
Transla-tors need just-in-time glossaries.
They cannot affordto do a lot of background reading and "detective"work when they are being paid by the word.
Theyneed something more practical.We propose a tool, termight, that automates someof the more tedious and laborious aspects of termi-nology research.
The tool relies on part-of-speechtagging and word-alignment technologies to extractcandidate terms and translations.
It then sorts theextracted candidates and presents them to the useralong with reference concordance lines, supportingefficient construction of glossaries.
The tool is cur-rently being used by the translators at AT&T Busi-ness Translation Services (formerly AT~T LanguageLine Services).Termight may prove useful in contexts other thanhuman-based translation.
Primarily, it can sup-port customization f machine translation (MT) lex-icons to a new domain.
In fact, the arguments forconstructing a job-specific glossary for human-basedtranslation may hold equally well for an MT-basedprocess, emphasizing the need for a productivitytool.
The monolingual component of termigM canbe used to construct erminology lists in other ap-plications, such as technical writing, book indexing,hypertext linking, natural anguage interfaces, textcategorization and indexing in digital libraries andinformation retrieval (Salton, 1988; Cherry, 1990;Harding, 1982; Bourigault, 1992; Damerau, 1993),while the bilingual component can be useful for in-formation retrieval in multilingual text collections(Landauer and Littman, 1990).2 Monolingual Task: An Applicationfor Part-of-Speech TaggingAlthough part-of-speech taggers have been aroundfor a while, there are relatively few practical appli-cations of this technology.
The monolingual taskappears to be an excellent candidate.
As has beennoticed elsewhere (Bourigault, 1992; Justeson andKatz, 1993), most technical terms can be found bylooking for multiword noun phrases that satisfy arather estricted set of syntactic patterns.
We followJusteson and Katz (1993) who emphasize the impor-tance of term frequency in selecting ood candidateterms.
An expert terminologist can then skim thelist of candidates to weed out spurious candidatesand cliches.Very simple procedures of this kind have been re-markably successful.
They can save an enormousamount of time over the current practice of readingthe document to be translated, focusing on tables,figures, index, table of contents and so on, and writ-ing down terms that happen to catch the translator'seye.
This current practice is very laborious and runsthe risk of missing many important terms.Termight uses a part of speech tagger (Church,1988) to identify a list of candidate terms which isthen filtered by a manual pass.
We have found,however, that the manual pass dominates the costof the monolingual task, and consequently, we havetried to design an interactive user interface (see Fig-ure 1) that minimizes the burden on the expert er-minologist.
The terminologist is presented with alist of candidate terms, and corrects the list witha minimum number of key strokes.
The interfaceis designed to make it easy for the expert to pullup evidence from relevant concordance lines to helpidentify incorrect candidates as well as terms thatare missing from the list.
A single key-press copiesthe current candidate term, or the content of anymarked emacs region, into the upper-left screen.The candidates are sorted so that the better onesare found near the top of the list, and so that re-lated candidates appear near one another.2.1 Candidate terms and associatedconcordance linesCandidate terms.
The list of candidate termscontains both multi-word noun phrases and singlewords.
The multi-word terms match a small set ofsyntactic patterns defined by regular expressions andare found by searching a version of the documenttagged with parts of speech (Church, 1988).
Theset of syntactic patterns is considered as a parame-ter and can be adopted to a specific domain by theuser.
Currently our patterns match only sequencesof nouns, which seem to yield the best hit rate in ourenvironment.
Single-word candidates are defined bytaking the list of all words that occur in the docu-ment and do not appear in a standard stop-list of"noise" words.Grouping and sorting of terms.
The list ofcandidate terms is sorted to group together all nounphrase terms that have the same head word (as inFigure 1), which is simply the last word of the termfor our current set of noun phrase patterns.
Theorder of the groups in the list is determined by de-creasing frequency of the head word in the docu-ment, which usually correlates with the likelihoodthat this head word is used in technical terms.Sorting within groups.
Under each head wordthe terms are sorted alphabetically according to re-versed order of the words.
Sorting in this orderreflects the order of modification i  simple Englishnoun phrases and groups together terms that denotedifferent modifications of a more general term (see35F i le  Edit  Buffers Helpsoftware set t ingssett ingsfont  slzede@ault paper sizepaper sizeanchor pointdecimal po intend pointhgphenatlon pointinser t ion  pointsoftware sett ingsspec i f i c  set t ingssett ingschange slze~cnt sizedefau l t  paper sizepaper sizeumn sizesizeanchor pointdecimal po intend pointhgphenatlon pointl l l s s r t lon  point~neertlon pointpo int5s t t lng  Advanced OptionsIneer t lon  point117709: ourtd in gout Write document.
To move the_ inser t ionI17894: Choose OK.
The dialog box dleappears, and the Ineert lon66058: Chepter 2 Appl icat ion Baslce__2.
Place the Ineert lon122717: Inden\[at lon o f  a paragraph:_ I .
Place the inser t ion122811: aragreph bw ualng the Ruler:_ I .
Place the inser t ion122909: _ To create a hanslng Indent : _ l .
Place the inser t ioni17546: In t lng  Inelde the window and_ where the Inaer t lon36195: nd date to ang Hotep6d document:_ Move the inser t ion35870: search fo r  text  in f lo tepad:_  1.
Move the inser t ion46478: dest inat ion_ document are v l s lb le .
_3 .
Move the inser t ion32436: into  which gou want to inser t  the text  Move the inser t ion67442: ext  l lne .
Press the 5tACEBAR to_ move the inser t ion44476: card._ I f  gou are using Write.
move the inser t ion67667: f i r s t  character gou want to select  and drag the inser t ion35932: tch Case check box?_ 3.
To search ?lom the inser t ion35957: defau l t  se t t ing  is  Oown.
This searches from the12092g: inser t  a manual page break:_ Posit ion the~olnt.
po int  to a locat ion in the docume~olnt moves to the_ selected pa~olnt at  the place you want the Informer~olnt inside the paragraph you "want to~olnt inside the paragraph @ou want to c~olnt Inelde the paragraph in "which gouoolnt w i l l  move to i f  gou c l i ck  a locat loolnt to the place gou want the time and0olnt to the place gou want to s ta r t  the0olnt to the place gou want the package0olnt_ to the place gou want the textoolnt one space to the r ight .
_  Tooolnt to the place gou want the object_3olnt to  the last_  character gouoolnt to the bes inr t ln  S of  the fde.
seleinsertion-- po int  to the end of  the f i l e , _inser t ion  point  where you want the page break andFigure 1: The monolingual user interface consists of three screens: (1) the input list of candidate terms(upper right), (2) the output list of terms, as constructed by the user (upper left), and (3) the concordancelines associated with the current term, as indicated by the cursor position in screen 1.
Typos are due toOCR errors.
Underscores denote line breaks.for example the terms default paper size, paper sizeand size in Figure 1).Concordance  l ines.
To decide whether a can-didate term is indeed a term, and to identify multi-word terms that are missing from the candidate list,one must view relevant lines of the document.
Forthis purpose we present a concordance line for eachoccurrence of a term (a text line centered aroundthe term).
If, however, a term, tl ,  (like 'point') iscontained in a longer term, $2, (like 'insertion point'or 'decimal point') then occurrences of t2 are notdisplayed for tl .
This way, the occurrences of a gen-eral term (or a head word) are classified into dis-joint sets corresponding to more specific terms, leav-ing only unclassified occurrences under the generalterm.
In the case of 'point', for example, five spe-cific terms are identified that account for 61 occur-rences of 'point', and accordingly, for 61 concordancelines.
Only 20 concordance lines are displayed for theword 'point' itself, and it is easy to identify in them5 occurrences of the term 'starting point', which ismissing from the candidate list (because 'starting'is tagged as a verb).
To facilitate scanning, con-cordance lines are sorted so that all occurrences ofidentical preceding contexts of the head word, like'starting', are grouped together.
Since all the wordsof the document, except for stop list words, appearin the candidate list as single-word terms it is guar-anteed that every term that was missed by the au-tomatic procedure will appear in the concordancelines.In summary, our algorithm performs the followingsteps:?
Extract multi-word and single-word candidateterms.?
Group terms by head word and sort groups byhead-word frequency.?
Sort terms within each group alphabetically inreverse word order.?
Associate concordance lines with each term.
Anoccurrence of a multi-word term t is not associ-ated with any other term whose words are foundin t.?
Sort concordance lines of a term alphabeticallyaccording to preceding context.2.2 Eva luat ionUsing the monolingual component, a terminologistat AT&T Business Translation Services constructsterminology lists at the impressive rate of 150-200terms per hour.
For example, it took about 10 hoursto construct a list of 1700 terms extracted from a300,000 word document.
The tool has at least dou-bled the rate of constructing terminology lists, whichwas previously performed by simpler lexicographictools.362.3 Comparison with related workAlternative proposals are likely to miss importantbut infrequent terms/translations such as 'FormatDisk dialog box' and 'Label Disk dialog box' whichoccur just once.
In particular, mutual information(Church and Hanks, 1990; Wu and Su, 1993) andother statistical methods uch as (Smadja, 1993)and frequency-based methods uch as (Justeson andKatz, 1993) exclude infrequent phrases because theytend to introduce too much noise.
We have foundthat frequent head words are likely to generate anumber of terms, and are therefore more importantfor the glossary (a "productivity" criterion).
Con-sider the frequent head word box.
In the MicrosoftWindows manual, for example, almost any type ofbox is a technical term.
By sorting on the frequencyof the headword, we have been able to find manyinfrequent erms, and have not had too much ofa problem with noise (at least for common head-words).Another characteristic of previous work is thateach candidate term is scored independently of otherterms.
We score a group of related terms rather thaneach term at a time.
Future work may enhance oursimple head-word frequency score and may take intoaccount additional relationships between terms, in-cluding common words in modifying positions.Termight uses a part-of-speech tagger to identifycandidate noun phrases.
Justeson and Katz (1993)only consult a lexicon and consider all the possibleparts of speech of a word.
In particular, every wordthat can be a noun according to the lexicon is con-sidered as a noun in each of its occurrences.
Theirmethod thus yields some incorrect noun phrases thatwill not be proposed by a tagger, but on the otherhand does not miss noun phrases that may be misseddue to tagging errors.3 B i l ingua l  Task :  An  App l i ca t ion  fo rWord  A l ignment3.1 Sentence and word alignmentBilingual alignment methods (Warwick et al, 1990;Brown et al, 1991a; Brown et al, 1993; Gale andChurch, 1991b; Gale and Church, 1991a; Kay andRoscheisen, 1993; Simard et al, 1992; Church, 1993;Kupiec, 1993a; Matsumoto et al, 1993; Dagan et al,1993).
have been used in statistical machine transla-tion (Brown et al, 1990), terminology research andtranslation aids (Isabelle, 1992; Ogden and Gonza-les, 1993; van der Eijk, 1993), bilingual lexicography(Klavans and Tzoukermann, 1990; Smadja, 1992),word-sense disambiguation (Brown et al, 1991b;Gale et al, 1992) and information retrieval in amultilingual environment (Landauer and Littman,1990).Most alignment work was concerned with align-ment at the sentence l vel.
Algorithms for the moredifficult task of word alignment were proposed in(Gale and Church, 1991a; Brown et al, 1993; Da-gan et al, 1993) and were applied for parameter es-timation in the IBM statistical machine translationsystem (Brown et al, 1993).Previously translated texts provide a major sourceof information about technical terms.
As Isabelle(1992) argues, "Existing translations contain moresolutions to more translation problems than anyother existing resource."
Even if other resources,such as general technical dictionaries, are available itis important to verify the translation of terms in pre-viously translated ocuments of the same customer(or domain) to ensure consistency across documents.Several translation workstations provide sentencealignment and allow the user to search interactivelyfor term translations in aligned archives (e.g.
(Og-den and Gonzales, 1993)).
Some methods use sen-tence alignment and additional statistics to find can-didate translations of terms (Smadja, 1992; van derEijk, 1993).We suggest hat word level alignment is bettersuitable for term translation.
The bilingual compo-nent of termight gets as input a list of source termsand a bilingual corpus aligned at the word level.
Wehave been using the output of word_align, a robustalignment program that proved useful for bilingualconcordancing of noisy texts (Dagan et al, 1993).Word_align produces a partial mapping between thewords of the two texts, skipping words that cannotbe aligned at a given confidence l vel (see Figure 2).3.2 Candidate translat ions and associatedconcordance linesFor each occurrence of a source term, termight iden-tifies a candidate translation based on the alignmentof its words.
The candidate translation is defined asthe sequence of words between the first and last tar-get positions that are aligned with any of the wordsof the source term.
In the example of Figure 2 thecandidate translation of Optional Parameters box iszone Parametres optionnels, since zone and option-nels are the first and last French words that arealigned with the words of the English term.
Noticethat in this case the candidate translation is correcteven though the word Parameters i  aligned incor-rectly.
In other cases alignment errors may lead toan incorrect candidate translation for a specific oc-currence of the term.
It is quite likely, however, thatthe correct ranslation, or at least a string that over-laps with it, will be identified in some occurrencesof the term.Termight collects the candidate translations fromall occurrences ofa source term and sorts them in de-creasing frequency order.
The sorted list is presentedto the user, followed by bilingual concordances for alloccurrences of each candidate translation (see Fig-ure 3).
The user views the concordances to verifycorrect candidates or to find translations that are37You can type application parameters in the Optional Parameters box.Vous pouvez tapez les parametres d'une application dans la zone Parametres optionnels.Figure 2: An example of word_align's output for the English and French versions of the Microsoft Windowsmanual.
The alignment of Parameters to optionnels is an error.missing from the candidate list.
The latter taskbecomes especially easy when a candidate overlapswith the correct ranslation, directing the attentionof the user to the concordance lines of this particularcandidate, which are likely to be aligned correctly.A single key-stroke copies a verified candidate trans-lation, or a translation identified as a marked emacsregion in a concordance line, into the appropriateplace in the glossary.3.3 Evaluat ionWe evaluated the bilingual component of termightin translating a glossary of 192 terms found in theEnglish and German versions of a technical manual.The correct answer was often the first choice (40%)or the second choice (7%) in the candidate list.
Forthe remaining 53% of the terms, the correct answerwas always somewhere in the concordances.
Usingthe interface, the glossary was translated at a rateof about 100 terms per hour.3.4 Related work and issues for futureresearchSmadja (1992) and van der Eijk (1993) describe termtranslation methods that use bilingual texts thatwere aligned at the sentence level.
Their methodsfind likely translations by computing statistics onterm cooccurrence within aligned sentences and se-lecting source-target pairs with statistically signifi-cant associations.
We found that explicit word align-ments enabled us to identify translations of infre-quent erms that would not otherwise meet statisti-cal significance criteria.
If the words of a term occurat least several times in the document (regardless ofthe term frequency) then word_align is likely to alignthem correctly and termight will identify the correcttranslation.
If only some of the words of a term arefrequent then termight is likely to identify a transla-tion that overlaps with the correct one, directing theuser quickly to correctly aligned concordance lines.Even if all the words of the term were not Mignedby word_align it is still likely that most concordancelines are aligned correctly based on other words inthe near context.Termight motivates future improvements in wordalignment quality that will increase recall and preci-sion of the candidate list.
In particular, taking intoaccount local syntactic structures and phrase bound-aries will impose more restrictions on alignments ofcomplete terms.Finally, termight can be extended for verifyingtranslation consistency at the proofreading (editing)step of a translation job, after the document hasbeen translated.
For example, in an English-Germandocument pair the tool identified the translation ofthe term Controls menu as Menu Steuerung in 4 outof 5 occurrences.
In the fifth occurrence word_alignfailed to align the term correctly because anothertranslation, Steuermenu, was uniquely used, violat-ing the consistency requirement.
Termight, or a sim-ilar tool, can thus be helpful in identifying inconsis-tent translations.4 Conc lus ionsWe have shown that terminology research providesa good application for robust natural language tech-nology, in particular for part-of-speech tagging andword-alignment algorithms.
Although the output ofthese algorithms i far from perfect, it is possible toextract from it useful information that is later cor-rected and augmented by a user.
Our extraction al-gorithms emphasize completeness, and identify alsoinfrequent candidates that may not meet some ofthe statistical significance criteria proposed in theliterature.
To make the entire process efficient, how-ever, it is necessary to analyze the user's work pro-cess and provide interfaces that support it.
In manycases, improving the way information is presentedto the user may have a larger effect on productivitythan improvements in the underlying natural an-guage technology.
In particular, we have found thefollowing to be very effective:?
Grouping linguistically related terms, making iteasier to judge their validity.?
Sorting candidates such that the better ones arefound near the top of the list.
With this sortingone's time is efficiently spent by simply goingdown the list as far as time limitations permit.?
Providing quick access to relevant concordancelines to help identify incorrect candidates a  wellas terms or translations that are missing fromthe candidate list.38Character menumenu Caracteres 42 I ta l lque 23 No translations available 1menu Caracteres 4121163: Formatting characters135073: ~orme des caracteresThe commands on the Character menu control how you ?ormat theLee commandes du menu Caracteree permettent de determiner la pr121294:135188: :Chooee the stgle gou want to use ?rom the Character menu, Tgpe gout tcx t .
TheCholsIssez le stgle voulu dans le menu Caracteres.
Tapez votre texte.
Le texteS: Card menuT: menu FicheS: Character menuT: menu CaracteresS: Control menuT:S: Disk menuT:Figure 3: The bilingual user interface consists of two screens.
The lower screen contains the constructedglossary.
The upper screen presents the current term, candidate translations with their frequencies and abilingual concordance for each candidate.
Typos are due to OCR errors.?
Minimizing the number of required key-strokes.As the need for efficient knowledge acquisition toolsbecomes widely recognized, we hope that this expe-rience with termight will be found useful for othertext-related systems as well.AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank Pat Callow from AT&TBuiseness Translation Services (formerly AT&TLanguage Line Services) for her indispensable rolein designing and testing termight.
We would alsolike to thank Bala Satish and Jon Helfman for theirpart in the project.ReferencesDidier Bourigault.
1992.
Surface grammatical nal-ysis for the extraction of terminological nounphrases.
In Proc.
of COLING, pages 977-981.P.
Brown, J. Cocke, S. Della Pietra, V. Della Pietra,F.
Jelinek, R.L.
Mercer, and P.S.
Roossin.
1990.A statistical approach to language translation.Computational Linguistics, 16(2):79-85.P.
Brown, J. Lai, and R. Mercer.
1991a.
Aligningsentences in parallel corpora.
In Proc.
of the An-nual Meeting of the ACL.P.
Brown, S. Della Pietra, V. Della Pietra, andR.
Mercer.
1991b.
Word sense disambiguationusing statistical methods.
In Proc.
of the AnnualMeeting of the ACL, pages 264-270.Peter Brown, Stephen Della Pietra, Vincent DellaPietra, and Robert Mercer.
1993.
The math-ematics of statistical machine translation: pa-rameter estimation.
Computational Linguistics,19(2):263-311.L.
L. Cherry.
1990.
Index.
In Unix Research Sys-tem Papers, volume 2, pages 609-610.
AT&T, 10edition.Kenneth W. Church and Patrick Hanks.
1990.
Wordassociation orms, mutual information, and lexi-cography.
Computational Linguistics, 16(1):22-29.Kenneth W. Church.
1988.
A stochastic parts pro-gram and noun phrase parser for unrestricted text.In Proc.
of ACL Conference on Applied NaturalLanguage Processing.Kenneth W. Church.
1993.
Char_align: A programfor aligning parallel texts at character level.
InProc.
of the Annual Meeting of the ACL.Ido Dagan, Kenneth Church, and William Gale.1993.
Robust bilingual word alignment for ma-chine aided translation.
In Proceedings of theWorkshop on Very Large Corpora: Academic andIndustrial Perspectives, pages 1-8.Fred J. Damerau.
1993.
Generating and evaluatingdomain-oriented multi-word terms from texts.
In-formation Processing ~ Management, 29(4):433-447.William Gale and Kenneth Church.
1991a.
Identify-ing word correspondence in parallel text.
In Proc.39of the DARPA Workshop on Speech and NaturalLanguage.William Gale and Kenneth Church.
1991b.
A pro-gram for aligning sentences in bilingual corpora.In Proc.
of the Annual Meeting of the ACL.William Gale, Kenneth Church, and DavidYarowsky.
1992.
Using bilingual materials todevelop word sense disambiguation methods.
InProc.
of the International Conference on Theoret-ical and Methodolgical Issues in Machine Trans-lation, pages 101-112.Michael I-Iann.
1992.
The Key to Technical Transla-tion, volume 1.
John Benjamins Publishing Com-pany.P.
Harding.
1982.
Automatic indexing and clas-sification for mechanised information retrieval.BLRDD Report No.
5723, British Library R &D Department, London, February.P.
Isabelle.
1992.
Bi-textual aids for translators.
InProc.
of the Annual Conference of the UW Centerfor the New OED and Text Research.John Justeson and Slava Katz.
1993.
Technical ter-minology: some linguistic properties and an algo-rithm for identification in text.
Technical ReportRC 18906, IBM Research Division.M.
Kay and M. Roscheisen.
1993.
Text-translationalignment.
Computational Linguistics, 19(1):121-142.J.
Klavans and E. Tzoukermann.
1990.
The bicordsystem.
In Proc.
of COLING.Julian Kupiec.
1993a.
An algorithm for findingnoun phrase correspondences in bilingual corpora.In Proc.
of the Annual Meeting of the ACL.Julian Kupiec.
1993b.
MURAX: A robust linguisticapproach for question answering using an on-lineencyclopedia.
In Proc.
of International Confer-ence on Research and Development in InformationRetrieval, SIGIR, pages 181-190.Thomas K. Landauer and Michael L. Littman.1990.
Fully automatic ross-language documentretrieval using latent semantic indexing.
In Proe.of the Annual Conference of the UW Center forthe New OED and Text Research.Yuji Matsumoto, Hiroyuki Ishimoto, Takehito Ut-suro, and Makoto Nagao.
1993.
Structural match-ing of parallel texts.
In Proc.
of the Annual Meet-ing of the A CL.William Ogden and Margarita Gonzales.
1993.Norm - a system for translators.
Demonstrationat ARPA Workshop on Human Language Tech-nology.Gerard Salton.
1988.
Syntactic approaches to au-tomatic book indexing.
In Proc.
of the AnnualMeeting of the ACL, pages 204-210.M.
Simard, G. Foster, and P. Isabelle.
1992.
Us-ing cognates to align sentences in bilingual cor-pora.
In Proc.
of the International Conference onTheoretical and Methodolgical Issues in MachineTranslation.Frank Smadja.
1992.
How to compile a bilingual col-locational lexicon automatically.
In AAAI Work-shop on Statistically-based Natural Language Pro-cessing Techniques, July.Frank Smadja.
1993.
Retrieving collocationsfrom text: Xtract.
Computational Linguistics,19(1):143-177.R.
Sproat, J. I-Iirschberg, and D. Yarowsky.
1992.A corpus-based synthesizer.
In Proceedings ofthe International Conference on Spoken LanguageProcessing, pages 563-566, Banff, October.
IC-SLP.Pim van der Eijk.
1993.
Automating the acquisitionof bilingual terminology.
In EACL, pages 113-119.S.
Warwick, J. ttajic, and G. Russell.
1990.
Search-ing on tagged corpora: linguistically motivatedconcordance analysis.
In Proc.
of the Annual Con-ference of the UW Center for the New OED andText Research.Ming-Wen Wu and Keh-Yih Su.
1993.
Corpus-based compound extraction with mutual informa-tion and relative frequency count.
In Proceedingsof ROCLING VI, pages 207-216.40
