Symmetr i c  Pat tern  Match ing  Analys is  for Engl ish Coord inateStructuresAkitoshi Okumura and Kazunori MurakiNEC Corp. Information Technology Research Laboratories4-1-1 Miyazaki, Miyamae-ku, Kawasaki, Kanagawa 216, JAPANokumura@hum.cl.nec.co.jpAbstractThe authors propose a model for analyz-ing English sentences including coordinateconjunctions such as "and", "or", "but" andthe equivalent words.
Syntactic analysisof the English coordinate sentences i oneof the most difficult problems for machinetranslation (MT) systems.
The problemis selecting, from all possible candidates,the correct syntactic structure formed byan individual coordinate conjunction, i.e.determining which constituents are coor-dinated by the conjunction.
Typically, somany possible structures are produced thatMT systems cannot select he correct one,even if the grammars allow to write therules in the simple notations.
This pa-per presents an English coordinate struc-ture analysis model, which provides top-down scope information of the correct syn-tactic structure by taking advantage of thesymmetric patterns of the parallelism.
Themodel is based on a balance matching oper-ation for two lists of the feature sets, whichprovides four effects: the reduction of anal-ysis cost, the improvement of word dis-ambiguation, the interpretation f ellipses,and robust analysis.
This model was prac-tically implemented and incorporated intothe English-Japanese MT system, and pro-vided about 75% accuracy in the practicaltranslation use.1 IntroductionThis paper presents a model for analyzing Englishsentences including coordinate conjunctions such as"and" , "or" , "but" and equivalent words.Syntactic analysis of English coordinate sentencesis one of the most difficult problems for machinetranslation (MT) systems.
The problem is select-ing, from all possible candidates, the correct syn-tactic structure formed by an individual coordinateconjunction, i.e., determining which constituents areconjoined by the conjunction.
Although the con-junction appears to have a simple function in theEnglish language, it has been researched as a con-junct scope problem by both theoretical and com-putational linguists.
Theoretically, it is possible todescribe the syntactic and semantic onstraints hatgovern the acceptability of a structure in which twoconstituents are conjoined by the conjunction(Lesmoand Torasso, 1985; Gazdar, 1981; Schachter, 1977).Computationally, it is possible to describe the gram-mar and heuristic rules for these constraints byATN networks, logic grarnmars~ HPSG~ and cate-gorical grammars(Kosy, 1986; Fong and Berwick,1985; Huang, 1984; Boguraev et al, 1983; Blackwell,1981; Niimi et al, 1986).
However, it is not easy toapply these techniques to large-scale MT systems,because there exist a variety of conjoined patterns,many word ambiguities, ome unknown words andellipses of the words simultaneously, in real environ-ments.
Also, there may be several conjunctions andthe equivalent words, such as commas, in a singlesentence.
Typically, the methods produce so manypossible structures that MT systems cannot selectthe correct one, even if the grammars allow to writethe rules in the simple notations.Often, conjunctions might produce the readingdifficulty even for the human readers.
However, theyalso give the readers a kind of symmetry as a read-ing indication.
They exhibit the tendency to con-join the same kind of syntactic patterns, which hasbeen called "parallelism" (Beaugrande and Dressier,1981; Shinoda, 1981).
In Japanese, the similar-ity is used for analyzing conjunctive structures andthe method is found effective(Kurohashi and Nagao,1992).
While Japanese language has several coordi-nate conjunctions according to the syntactic levels(a noun phrase and a predicative clause), Englishcoordinate conjunctions are used for any level of thestructures.
More robust methods are necessary fordealing with English conjunctive structures.We propose here an English coordinate structureanalysis model, which can determine the correct syn-tactic structure in real environments by taking ad-vantage of the symmetric patterns of the parallelism.41The model is based on a balance matching operationfor two lists of the feature sets.
The lists representthe left-side and right-side structures of the coordi-nate conjunctions, including word ambiguities.
Theoperation determines the most symmetric structureby comparing both sides of the conjunction.First, the problems of the English coordinate sen-tences are explained.
Second, it is mentioned thatthe parallelism can be effective information for top-down analysis of the sentences.
Third, the balancematching analysis model is presented for solving theproblems.
This model, which was implemented inthe PIVOT English-Japanese MT system with thedictionary of 100,000 words, has been working inthe analysis module.
Finally, the results in the MTsystem are reported together with the MT systemconfiguration.2 Problems of the conjunctionsCoordinate conjunctions for MT systems presentthree difficulties(Kosy, 1986; Huang, 1983; Niimi etal., 1986; Okumura et ai., 1987).1.
Analysis cost: English coordinate conjunctionshave a variety of linguistic functions.
The con-junctions can syntactically conjoin any partsof speech; nouns, adjectives, verbs, etc., andall sorts of constituents; words, phrases andclauses.
They produce so many possible struc-tures that MT systems cannot select he correctone, even if some grammars provide the simplenotations of the rules.
The complexity of therules impose a burden on the analysis process.2.
Ambiguities of the words: Most English wordsare ambiguous in their parts of speech ,such asNoun and Verb, Preposition and Conjunction,Auxiliary Verb and others, and Adjective andNoun.
The complex rules governing the con-junctions make the word disambiguation morecomplicated, which results in the reduction ofanalysis precision.3.
Ellipses of the words: It is possible for a con-junct to contain "gaps" (elided elements) whichare not allowed if the conjunction is removed.These gaps must be filled with elements fromother conjunct for a proper interpretation, asin (1) and (1)'.
(1) NO.2 landing gear selector valves should beclosed to the full position,and NO.3 to the hM?
(1)' NO.2 landing gear selector valves should beclosed to the full position, and NO.3 \[landinggear selector valves hould be closed\] to the half\[position\].3 Parallelism of the conjunctions3.1 Symmetr ic  patterns of parallelismEnglish coordinate conjunctions have a tendency toconjoin the same kinds of syntactic patterns.
Weidentify three levels of symmetric pattern.?
Phrase(Clause) symmetric patterns:Phrase(Clause)-level symmetric patters uch as\[Verb-Phase AND Verb-Phase\] in the conjunctscope of "as well as " in (2) and a series of com-mas in (3).
(2) Such coupling is desirable because it enables adevelopment engineer to move easily within thishierarchy as well as to exploit the distinctivefeatures of each system.
(3) The add operators cause POSTSCRIPT to pickup the top two numbers from the stack, re-move them, add them, and leave the sum onthe stack.?
Word symmetric patterns: Word-level sym-metric patterns such as \[Quantifier Preposi-tion Abstract-Noun AND Quantifier Preposi-tion Abstract-Noun\] in the conjunct scope ofthe "and" in (4).
Some patterns are representedby the semantic features such as \[InstrumentAND Instrument\] about "and1" of (5).
(4) The container need not be large; if it is lOcm indiameter and 12cm in depth, that is enough.
(5) Inspect the cockpit indicators and1 levers forcracked glass and missing control knobs.?
Morphological symmetric patterns: Morpholog-ical symmetric patterns are recognized by thesorts of characters, uppercase or lowercase let-ters, as in (6) and (7) as well as an exactly samemorphological pattern \[CIC ... hatches ANDCIC ..., hatches\] in (8).
(6) An atomic bomb is a device for producingan explosively rapid neutron chain reaction inuranium-235 or plutonium-239 which is calleda fissile material.
(7) Technical orders described in AFR 8-2 andPFR 7-2 are registered in the on-line file in theform of inspection workcards.
(8) There are CIC1 ditching2 hatches3 and CIC4escape5 hatches6 in the compartment.Some symmetric patterns may appear in com-bined form \[Preposition Gerund Nominal-PhraseAND Preposition Gerund Nominal-Phrase\] in (9).
(9) Radioisotopes have played an important partin1 developing effective insecticides in2 thecountry and in3 finding the best ways o?
ap-plying them.428.2 Analysis by {he symmetr ic  patternsThe symmetric patterns can be effective informationfor top-down analysis of the conjunct scope.
For ex-ample, though (9) allows another counterpart ("in2the country") as the conjoined phrase ("in3 find-ing ..."), the symmetric pattern information makesit easy to to select the correct counterpart of thephrase ("in1 developing .... " ).
Also, where other ex-amples yntactically allow other counterparts of theconjoined noun phrases, the symmetric pattern in-formation enables easy selection.
Often, the scope ofeach conjunct is explicitly demarcated with commasand morphological patterns, as in (3) and (8).
Thesymmetric patterns can be also effective for word dis-ambiguation.
For example, (8) contains verb/nounambiguities for escape5 and hatches6.
The symmet-ric patterning of ditching2 hatches3 facilitates theirdisambiguation.In the above example sentences, the words im-mediately following the conjunction play importantroles for detecting the structures, because there isusually strong similarity between the starting wordsof each conjunct scope and the words following theconjunctions.
However, the following examples alsocontain kinds of symmetric patterns, though thewords following the conjunctions don't have similar-ity with the starting words of the conjunct scopes.
(10) In 1985 the government offered offshore regis-tration to the companies, and, in consequence,in 1985 incorporation fees generated about twomillion dollars.
(11) The damage of the landing gear selector valvecaused the leakage of the hydraulic fluid, andcompletely blockaded the return path.
(12) Close the cockpit ditching hatches, andthe cabin pressure will be dumped to relieve theair loads on the hatches.In both (10) and (11), an adverbial modifier isinserted at the start of the second conjunct; thisis a common pattern extension.
In (12), there isno real parallelism: the first conjunct clause is animperative, and the second its result.4 Balance matching analysis modelThe balance matching analysis model determines thecorrect structure by taking advantage of the sym-metric patterns.
In this section, first, the represen-tation of symmetric patterns is presented.
Then thebalance matching operation is presented.
Finally,analysis by the balance matching is described.4.1 The pattern representationThe symmetric patterns are represented by a list ofthree feature sets; Phrase features, Word features,and Morphological features, based on the symmetricpattern levels.
* Phrase feature \[?\]: Values are Predica-tive, Nominal, Nominal-Premodifier, Nominal-Postmodifier, Predicate-modifier.
These val-ues are assigned to all the constituents in thephrase.
For example, all the words in "the ef-fective insecticides" have ?.(Nominal)?
Word feature \[7\]: This feature includes 120values which subclasses of general parts ofspeech, according to their grammatical andsemantic function.
For example, some val-ues are {NounInstrument}, {NounHuman},{NounAction}, {PredicateStatic}, etc.?
Morphological feature \[6\]: The values showsthe morphological attributes of the words,which are a pair of the word and the mor-phological type.
For example, "uranium-235" is represented by &(uranium-235, alpha-bet_hyphen_arabic-n umbers) .Each word in the sentence is represented by the setof the three features.
?
and 7 can include ambiguousvalues.
The ith word-feature set Hi and the n-wordsentence S~ are respectively represented as follows.
( ~i ) ~i -= {?iI,''',?im}= = {Ti, '" ,Tin} (13),% Ai =  12}= (Wl , .
.
- ,  w , )  (14)When the conjunction is the ruth word of the n-word sentence, the left-side list S~ -1 and the right-side list S~n+l are respectively represented asfollows.S7 '-1 = (Wx, ' " ,  W~,-,) (15)S~+i = (W.~+I,'", W.) (16)The goal of the balance matching is to find themost symmetric pair of 5~-1(I _< x < m) and,$Ym+i(m < y ~ n), i.e., to find the values of x andy.4.2 The balance matching operat ionBy definition, the most symmetric pair shares themaximum number of the word-feature sets in thelists.
The pair is detected by three operations: theintersection operation for two features, the matchingoperation for two word-feature sets, and the balanc-ing operation for two lists.4.2.1 The intersect ion operat ionThe intersection operation is one of the normal setoperations for the features:@,~_ 1.
{uranium-235,alphabet_hyphen_arabic-numbers}V~ ~,~+l.
{plutonium-239, alphabet_hyphen_arabic-numbers} - {alphabet-hyphen_arabic-numbers}The mutual dependency information among the?ij and Vik is managed by bi-directional lists in thebackground.
If all ?ij dependent of Vik are disam-biguated by the operation, 7ik are removed.434.2.2 The matching operationThe matching operation N for the the word-feature sets V, 142 is defined as follows:v~ n Wj = V~Wj = r~ n r;,  (:7)A~ N A dThe matching word-feature s t V~lfl2j can exist, when?i rl ?.}
~ NULL or F in  F:.
?
NULL.?
21  .
?Especially, as is mentioned m Sectmn 3.2, in mostof the conjoined sentence, the word-feature setsof Win+l, which immediately follows the conjunc-tion, play an important role for detecting the struc-ture, because there is strong similarity between thestarting word-feature set of the conjunct scope and142m+1.4.2.3 The balancing operationThe balancing operation ?
for the lists ?~ ,T~' isdefined as follows:?
'~ ?
n7  = {(V~Wj,"' ,  VkW," ' ) IV  ?
?
i ,W ?
nT ,k > j, c1 = (v~,... ,  v,), ~7  = (w: , .
- .
,  w,)}Every word-feature set in the list doesn't alwaysmatch one of the other list.
Some word-feature s tsin ?\]' can find matching counterparts in 7?
T butothers cannot.
In (18), The: and operationsa re-spectively matches the1 and results2.
(18) The1 arithmetics operations3 and the~results2.Therefore, the balancing operation creates aset ofthe lists for exhausting all the possible combinations.The lists consist of the matching word-feature sets(12~I,Y~) which are selected to avoid crossing anyexisting lines when ~i and I4~ are connected by aline as in the following:(v: ,  , , , ,  v~, , , , ,  vk, , , , ,  v.~)/ 1 1 1 \ (:9)(w:, , , , ,  w;, , , , ,  w .
, , , ,  w .
)For example,?
3 ?
7~ is :C 3 = (V:, \])2, V3) ~2 = 0~Vl ' }/V2 )Cl 3 @ "Z~21 = {(Vl~/Vl), (Vl\]/V2), (V2Wl),'(~22~V2),(~23~21), (V3~)2), (~)1~71, V2~V2), (Vl~)I, V3~V2),(v2w~, v3w2)}(20)The balancing degree 8 for a list 2- is defined as foblOWS:o~ = ~_, wk.V'(k) z = (v~wj,..., v~w,,)dV'(?)
and Af(F) respectively represent the totalnumber of the each feature in the list 2-.
Af(A) is thetotal number of the values of A in the list 2".
Herein,wk is defined as a binary value (1.0 or 0.0) for sim-plifying the model.
Through the analysis of 10,000English conjunctive sentences in technical manuals,the structures could be divided into about 300 coor-dinate patterns, which are represented in the formof the word-feature s ts.
We manually assigned theweights to the features A, F and ?
according to thepatterns, in order to select he correct structure.4.3 Analysis by balance matchingThe n-word sentence including the conjunction asthe ruth word is analyzed according to the followingsteps.L Collect the word-feature set G(W): G(W) ={Wx\[Wx n Wm+l # NULL}This step collects a set of the words similar toW,~+I.
The collection considers ome definiteconcord markers and boundary markers, suchas "and", "both" , "either", commas, periods,and colons.
In order to deal with the cases of(10),(11) and (12), the starting words of theclause I42 k are added to G(IA~) when a commaII.is preceded byCreate the listH(?)
= {Wjl ithe conjunction.set H(?
):_<j <m- l ,  Wi6G0d))}n--m. III.
Create the list ~1 ?~,.~'-"' = {W, .+: ,  W~.+2," .
,  W.}IV.
To create the list set F(?7~) by the balancingoperation.F(Cn) = {q  ?
nr -~ lq  6 g(?)}V.
Select he list F(?7~)ma~ which has the highestbalancing degree from all the possible lists inF(?7~).For example, (9) are analyzed by the followingsteps.
Here, for the easy understanding, the word-feature set and the list are represented by the sim-plified expression.
(9) Radioisotopes have played an important partin1 developing effective insecticides in2 thecountry and in3 t~nding the best ways of ap-plying them?I.
G(W) = {in:, in2}II.
H(?)
= {(in1, developing, effective,insecticides, in, the, country), (in2, the, country)}III.
Tt~ =(inn, finding, the, best, ways, of, applying, them)IV.
F(CTt) = {... ,  (Preposition, Nominal),(Preposition, Gerund, Nominal)}V.F( E~ ) ..... = (Preposition, Gerund, Nominal)= (in1, developing, effect ive, .
.
.
,  in, the, country)7"4 = (in3, finding, the, best, ways, of, applying, them)The and5 in (21) can be analyzed as the same way.44(21) Use extreme care when using cleaning solventslike1 acetone and methyl ethyl ketone which arehighly flammable2 and shall be used3 in areaswith4 adequate fire extinguishing devices and5free6 of ignition sources.G(}/V) = {like1, flammable2, used3, with4, free6}f(~Tl)ma~ -- (NominalPostmodi fier)E. = (with4, adequate, fire, extinguishing, devices)n = (free6, of, ignition, sources)5 Empi r i ca l  resu l t s  on the  MTsystem5.1 MT configurationThe model was incorporated as a balance matchingmodule into the PIVOT English-Japanese MT sys-tem as shown in Figure.l(Muraki, 1986; Okumura etal., 1987; Okumura et al, 1991).
The system worksfor a practical use together with the dictionary of100,000 words.The input sentences, represented by the list ofthe feature sets based on the results of the mor-phological analysis, are transferred to the balancematching module.
The module produces the con-junct scope information as well as the results of thebalance matching.
The syntactic-semantic analysismodule analyzes the sentences according to this top-down information.
After the analysis, the concep-tual analysis module creates an interlingua repre-sentation.
From the interlingua, output sentencesare generated(Muraki, 1986; Okumura et al, 1991).5.2 Effects of the modelWhen 15,000 conjunctive sentences in the technicalreports and manuals were translated apart from theanalyzed 10,000 sentences, the following effects areconfirmed about the model.1.
Reduction of the analysis cost: This model pro-vides the correct top-down information aboutthe conjunct scopes for about 75~0 of the sen-tences, which result in the accurate and effectivesyntactic analysis.
Most of the sentences hadrequired backtracking for the analysis withoutthe model.
The backtracking is almost all sup-pressed by the model.2.
Improvement of the word disambiguation: Theresults of the balance matching improve worddisambiguation and the inferences of the un-known words, because the ambiguities of eachword are intersected by the counterparts of thesymmetric list.
The results provide top-downinformation for the analysis of the ambiguouswords and unknown words, as in (8).
Most ofthe sentences contained some word ambiguitiesand one sixth contained unknown words.
Byusing the top-down information, the accuracywas twice better improved...Interpretation f the ellipses: The model makesit easy to interpret the elided elements, becausethe balance matching results can suggest hemissing elements.
In sentences such as (1), T~is completely included ?:.
The differences of ?
:and 7~ complement the missing elements.Robust analysis: The model helps make the sys-tem robust because the balance matching op-eration is based on the three different kinds offeatures.
In the MT domain of technical reportsand manuals, there are some unknown words aswell as some ambiguous words as in (6),(7) and(8).
Robustness i achieved because the mor-phological features are considered as well as theother features.5.3 DiscussionsTo increase the accuracy, the model is improved fromthree points:?
Lexical disambiguation: The model is basedon lexical information.
Therefore, when manywords provide too many feature ambiguities,the model cannot always determine a correctstructure.
In order to solve this problem, filter-ing rules are applied to the sentence before thebalance matching operation.
The rules are localconstraint rules, which checks the two or threewords before a focused word to remove someambiguities of the focused word.
The filteringrules improve the model.?
Weight optimization: The weights for each fea-ture set are manually assigned based on 300 pat-terns.
They should be more appropriately as-signed as real values instead of binary values ac-cording to the domain and text styles.
We havedeveloped a learning method for the featurestructures(Okumura et l., 1992).
The methodis applicable for determining the weights ac-cording to the input patterns.?
Semantic alculation: Some conjunctive struc-tures should be analyzed by the more subdi-vided semantic features and semantic similaritycalculation.
We are introducing some semantictaxonomy and the semantic distance measure-ment algorithm(Knight, 1993; Okumura andHovy, 1994; Resnik, 1993).6 Conc lus ionThe authors propose an English coordinate struc-ture analysis model, which provides top-down scopeinformation of the correct syntactic structure by tak-ing advantage of the symmetric patterns of the par-allelism.This model was practically implemented and in-corporated into the PIVOT English-Japanese MTsystem with the dictionary of 100,000 words.
Themodel provided about 75% accuracy, which lead to45input sentences )I morphological \[_J syntactic-semantic I analysis I "1 analysis IT\[ balance matching module Ioutput sentences )I conceptual ~interlingua ~ sentence' analysis generat ionFigure 1: A MT system configuration i cluding the balance matching modulerobust analysis for the MT system, as well as helpingmake rule-based analysis effective.
In the future, weplan to improve the model according to the "abovediscussion, and also to extend the analysis to otherconjunctions and prepositions.7 AcknowledgmentsThe authors thank Eduard Hovy and Kevin Knightof USC/ISI for their precious comments.Re ferencesR.. Beaugrande and W. Dressier.
1981.
INTRO-D UCTION TO TEXT LING UISTICS.
LongmanGroup Limited, Harlow, Essex.S.A.
Blackwell.
1981.
Processing conjunctions in anatn parser.
Technical report, University of Cam-bridge.
Unpublished M.Phil.
Dissertation.B.K Boguraev, K. Sparck-Jones, and Y.
(eds) Wilks,editors.
1983.
Recognizing Conjunctions withinthe ATN Framework.
Ellis Horwood.S.
Fong and R.C.
Berwick.
1985.
New approaches toparsing conjunctions using prolog.
In Proceedingsof the 23rd A CL Conference, Chicago.G.
Gazdar.
1981.
Unbounded Dependencies and Co-ordinate Structure.X.
Huang.
1983.
Dealing with conjunctions in amachine translation environment.
In Proceedingsof European ACL Conference.X.
Huang.
1984.
Dealing with conjunctions in amachine translation environment.
In Proceedingof COLING84.Kevin Knight.
1993.
Building a large ontology formachine translation.
In Proceedings ofthe ARPAHuman Language Technology Workshop, Prince-ton, New Jersey.
AR.PA.D.
Kosy.
1986.
Parsing conjunctions deterministi-cally.
In Proceedings ofthe 24th A CL Conference.S.
Kurohashi and M. Nagao.
1992.
Dynamicprogramming method for analyzing conjunc-tive structures in japanese.
In Proceedings ofCOLING-#P, August.L.
Lesmo and P Torasso.
1985.
Analysis of conjunc-tions in a rule-based parser.
In Proceedings ofthe23rd A CL Conference, Chicago.K.
Muraki.
1986.
Venus: Two-phase machine trans-lation system.
Future Generations Computer Sys-tems 2.S.
Niimi, Y. Suwa, J Tsujii., and .M Nagao.
1986.Coordinate sentences by mu-project english anal-ysis grammar.
In Proceedings ofInformation Pro-cessing Society of Japan.
in Japanese.A.
Okumura nd E. Hovy.
1994.
Building a japanesedictionary associated with an ontology for ma-chine translation.
In ARPA Human LanguageTechnology Workshop.A.
Okumura, S. Kamei, and K. Muraki.
1987.
En-glish coordinate structure analysis.
In Proceed-ings of Information Processing Society of Japan,September.
in Japanese.A.
Okumura, K. Muraki, and S. Akamine.
1991.Multi-lingual sentence generation from the pivotinterlingua.
In Proceedings of MT SUMMIT III,July.A.
Okumura, K. Muraki, and K. Yamabana.1992.
A pattern-learning based, hybrid modelfor the syntactic analysis of structural relation-ships among japanese clauses.
In Proceeding ofFourth International Conference on the Theoreti-cal and Methodological Issues in Machine Trans-lation, June.P.
Resnik.
1993.
Semantic lasses and syntactic am-biguity.
In Proceedings ofARPA lILT Workshop.P.
Schachter.
1977.
Constraints On Coordination.Y.
Shinoda.
1981.
TECHNICAL ENGLISH.
Nagu-modou, Tokyo Japan.
in Japanese.46
