Industrial Applications of Unification MorphologyGSbor  P rdszdkyMorphoLogicF6 u.
56-58.
I /3.H-1011 Budapest ,  Hungaryh6109pro@ella.huAbst rac tIndustrial applications of a reversible,string-based, unification approach calledHumor (High-speed Unification Morphol-ogy) is introduced in the paper.
It hasbeen used for creating a variety of proofingtools and dictionaries, like spelling check-ers, hyphenators, lemmatizers, inflectionalthesauri, intelligent bi-lingual dictionariesand, of course, full morphological nalysisand synthesis.
The first industrialized ver-sions of all of the above modules work andlicensed by well-known software companiesfor their products' Hungarian versions.
De-velopment of the same modules for otheragglutinative (e.g.
Turkish, Estonian) andother (highly) inflectional anguages (e.g.Polish, French, German) have also begun.1 Suppor ted  Morpho log ica lProcesses1.1 Morphological Analysis/Synthesis andLemmatiz ingThe morphological nalyser is the kernel module ofthe system: almost all of the applications derivedfrom Humor based on it.
It provides all the possiblesegmentations of the word-form in question cover-ing inflections, derivations, prefixations, compound-ing and creating basic lexical forms of the stems.Morphological synthesis is based on analysis, thatis, all the possible morphemic ombinations built bythe core synthesis module are filtered by the ana-lyzer.Lemmatizer is a simplified version of the morpho-logical analysis ystem.
It provides all the possiblelexical stems of a word-form, but does not provideinflectional and derivational information.1.2 Spell ing Checking and CorrectionSpelling checking of agglutinative languages cannotbe based on simple wordlist based method becauseof the incredibly high number of possible word-formsof these languages.
Algorithmic solutions, that ismorphology based applications, are the only way tosolve the problem (Solak and Oflazer 1992).
Thespelling checker based on our unification morphologymethod provides a logical answer whether the word-form in question can be constructed according to theactual morphological descriptions of the system, ornot.
In case of negative answer a correction strategystarts to work.
It is based on orthographic, morpho-phonological, morphological nd lexical properties ofthe words.
This strategy also works in real corpusapplications where automatic orrections of sometypical mis-typings have to be made.1.3 HyphenationThere are languages in which 100% hyphenationcannot be made without exact morphological seg-mentation of the words.
Hungarian is a language ofthis type: boundaries between prefixes and stems,or between the components of compounds overridethe main hyphenation rules that cover around 85%of the hyphenation points.
Our unification basedhyphenator guarantees, in principle, perfect hyphen-ation (including the critical Hungarian hyphenationof long double consonants where new letters have tobe inserted while hyphenated).1.4 Mono- and Bi-l ingual DictionariesBesides the above described well-known types ofapplications there are two new tools based onthe same strategy, the inflectional thesaurus calledHelyette (Pr6sz4ky ~5 Tihanyi 1993), and the seriesof intelligent bi-lingual dictionaries called MoBiDic.Both are dictionaries with morphological knowledge:Helyette is monolingual, while MoBiDic - -  as itsname suggests 1 - -  bi-lingual.
Having analyzed theinput word both systems look for the lemma in themain dictionary.
The inflectional thesaurus toresthe information encoded in the analyzed affixes, andadds to the synonym chosen by the user.
The mor-phological synthesis module starts to work here, andprovides the user with the adequate inflected form1 MorphoLogic's Bi-lingual Dictionary213of the word in question.
This procedure has a greatimportance in case of highly inflectional languages.2 Imp lementat ion  Deta i l sHumor unification morphology systems have beenfully implemented for Hungarian.
The same pack-age for Polish, Turkish, German, French are underdevelopment.
The whole software package is writ-ten in standard C using C++ like objects.
It runson any platforms where C compiler can be found.
2The Hungarian morphological nalyzer which isthe largest and most precise implementation needsaround 100 Kbytes of core memory and 600 Kbytesdisk space for spell-checking and hyphenation (plus300 Kbytes for full analysis and synthesis).
The stemdictionary contains more than 90.000 stems whichcover all (approx.
70.000) lexemes of the ConciseExplanatory Dictionary of the Hungarian Language.Suffix dictionaries contain all the inflectional suf-fixes and the productive derivational morphemes ofpresent-day Hungarian.
With the help of these dic-tionaries Humor is able to analyze and/or generatearound 2.000.000.000 well-formed Hungarian word-forms.
Its speed is between 50 and 100 words/s onan average 40 MHz 386 machine.
The whole systemcan be tuned 3 according to the speed requirements:the needed RAM size can be between 50 and 900Kbytes.The synonym system of Helyette contains 40.000headwords.
The first version of the inflectional the-saurus Helyette needs 1.6 Mbytes disk space andruns under MS-Windows.
The size of the MoBiDicpackages vary depending on the applied terminologi-cal collection.
E.g.
the Hungarian-English BusinessDictionary needs 1.8 Mbytes space.
4Humor-based lemmatizers support free text searchin Verity's Topic and Oracle, and it is used by thelexicographers of the Institute of Linguistics of theHungarian Academy of Sciences in their every-daywork.
That is, the corpus used in creation of Histor-ical Dictionary of Hungarian has been lemmatizedby tools based on our unification morphology.Numerous versions of other Humor-based applica-tions run under DOS, OS/2, UNIX and on Macin-tosh systems.
5ReferencesPr6sz4ky, G., Tihanyi, L. A Fast MorphologicalAnalyzer for Lemmatizing Corpora of Agglutina-tive Languages.
In: Kiefer, F., Kiss, G, 8J Pa-jzs, J.
(eds.)
Papers in Computational Lexicography-- COMPLEX 92.
Linguistics Institute, Budapest:265-278.
(1992) Pr6sz4ky, G., Tihanyi, L. Helyette:Inflectional Thesaurus for Agglutinative Languages.Proceedings of the 6th Conference of EA CL, Utrecht:473.
(1993)Solak, A. and K. Oflazer.
Parsing Agglutina-tive Word Structures and Its Application to SpellingChecking for Turkish.
Proceedings of the COLING-92, Nantes: 39-45.
(1992)3 Industrial applicationsThere are several commercially available Humor sub-systems for different purposes: lemmatizers, hy-phenators, spelling checkers and correctors.
They(called HelyesLem, Helyesel and Helyes-e?, respec-tively) have been built into several word-processingand full-text retrieval systems.Spelling checkers and hyphenators are availableeither as a part of Microsoft Word for Windows,Works, Excel, Lotus 1-2-3 and AmiPro, Aldus Page-Maker, WordPerfect, etc.
or in stand-alone form forDOS, Windows and Macintosh.
Microsoft and Lo-tus licensed the above proofing tool packages for allof their localized Hungarian products.2Up to now, DOS, Windows, OS/2, UNIX and Mac-intosh environments have been tested.3Even by the end-users.4Its language specific and not application specificparts cannot be multiplied if other vocabularies also needHungarian and/or English.5For OEM partners there is a weU-defined API toHumor.214
