Representing Knowledge for Planning Multisentential TextJose Coch, Raphael DavidGSI-Erli / 1, place des Marseillais94227 Charenton-le-Pont Cedex, FRANCEe-maih jose.coch@erli.gsi.fr, aphael.david@erli.gsi.frAbstractThe AlethGen tool has been used to build asystem for automatically generating replies tocomplaints, for a European mail-order company.
Inthe current version, letters are generated in French.AlethGen consists of several modules: the textdeep structure planner (or conceptual planner), thetext surface structure planner (or rhetorical planner),the computation ofpronouns and quantifiers, and thelinguistic generator proper (globally inspired by theMeaning-Text Theory) which determines theconcrete realization of sentences.The paper mainly describes AlethGen'sconceptual and rhetorical planners and focuses onthe knowledge they use and produce.1.
Goals and general approachThe main function of the texts we had to generateconsisted indeed in replying to a complaint, thus inarguing and justifying a decision.
This implies, on theone hand, a good management of the argumentativeaspects, and on the other hand, the need to generaterather complex texts in a perfectly consistent s yle.The general approach of the conceptual planning isrelation-based, as described in the Rhetorical StructureTheory or RST (Mann & Thompson, 1988).However, as shown in (Elhadad & Mc Keown, 1990),previous works in text generation systems (includingRST) "have generally used a notion similar to rhetoricalrelations to describe the connection betweenpropositions.
They make a one-to-one mapping fromthese relations to connectives for generation (forexample, the "opposition" relation would be realized bythe connective "but").
In this approach it is difficult todistinguish between similar connectives (e.g.
\[...\] but vs.although).
"In our work, we assume that there are two differentlevels of text structure.
The deep level is represented byunordered basic relations, and the surface level isrepresented by (ordered) lists of atomic events andrhetorical operators.2.
ExampleHere is a letter generated by AlethGen and itstranslation i  English:Cher Monsieur,J'ai bien re~u votre message minitel du 22 mars1993 concernant la commande du disque XXCC et dulogiciel YYBB.
Le disque a dtd exp~did le 3 f#vrier 1993par la Poste, il aurait donc dft parvenir it votre domicile.Je vais me renseigner pour savoir ce qui a pu seproduire.Je ne peux pas renouveler cette commande carmalheureusement, ous ne pouvons pas vous livrer avantle mariage.
Dans votre intdr~t, je pr~f~re annuler cettecommande.
Elle ne fera l'objet d'aucun remboursementpuisque vous aviez pr~vu de r~gler it la livraison.Je vous prie, Cher Monsieur, ...Dear Sir,I have received your Minitel message, datedMarch 22, 1993, concerning the order of an XXCC discand a YYBB software.
The disc was sent by post onFebruary 3, 1993; you should therefore have received itby now.
I will make inquiries to find out what may havehappened.Unfortunately I cannot renew the order, as weare unable to deliver before the wedding.
In yourinterest, it would be preferable that I cancel your order.It will not be refunded as you had decided to pay ondelivery.Yours faithfully,In fact, the customer has sent a complaint letterbecause he has not received the items he had ordered.However, he maintains his order provided he receives theitems before his wedding.
The items that were sent areconsidered lost because of the dates.
As the wedding is tobe celebrated soon, it will not be possible to get the itemsbefore that date.
The order must therefore be cancelled.The deep text structure is a list of two trees (in factthe introduction and the last phrases of the letters arecomputed from the input with a trivial system):?
CONSEQUENCE (BECAUSE ( delivery_parceh modality=pastcounterfactual,parcel_sent: lost),inquiry)?
CONSEQUENCE (condition_fulfillment_impossible,CONSEQUENCE (AND (NOT renewal_of_the_order,cancellation),norefund))The surface text structure is a list of events withrhetorical features and surface operators (note that theEnglish (human) translation of the letter has a slightlydifferent surface text structure).parcel_sent:203lostparcel_delivery:modality 1=past counterfactualoperator="donc" ("therefore/so")inquiry<new paragraph>non renewal_of_the_order"car" ("because/as")condition_fulfillment_impossiblemodality2=ne_pas_pouvoir (t  be unable)modality l=malheureusement (u fortunately)cancellationmodality 1=pr6f'ere (better/preferable)no_refund3.
Knowledge3.1.
Rules for conceptual planningIf p and q are events, one can have a rule (cause pconsq q) in the knowledge base.
If the input has p & q,one can generate something like "p caused q" or "q,because p".
All the possible values are given in thefollowing table:p q one can ~enerateT T "q because p"F F nothing (does not apply)F T nothing (does not apply)T F ""<1 though p"The last line is the "exception" to the rule.Rules can be more complex, and have a condition inaddition to the cause: (cause p cond r consq q).
Forexample,cause: addressee_wants cancel (his order)cond: not_delivered (the articles have not been...)consq: cancellation (of the order)Clearly, not_delivered is not a cause for cancellationbut only a condition, because the reason for cancellationis addressee_wants_cancel.p r q one can ~enerateT T T "q because p"T F T "q because p though -r"F T/F T/F nothing (does not apply)T T F "~q though p"T F F "~q though p because -r"So the knowledge for planning the deep structure ofthe text is a set of domain-dependent conceptual rules.3.2.
Rhetorical rulesGiven a simple relational tree consisting of anoperator as well as two events, it is easy to see thatseveral surface orders and several surface operators arepossible.
For instance, the tree BECAUSE (You ask mefor X, I see to it so that X) may have the followinglinguistic realizations:- I see to it so that X, because you asked me for Y- You asked me for Y, so I see to it so that X.The rhetorical module chooses concrete operators,modalities, and order according to certain attributes, e.g.the fact that the addressee is aware of an event or not, thefact that it is in favour of the addressee or not, etc.4.
ImplementationThe system was written in C++ under Unix andeffectively runs on RS/6000 and Sun SparcStation.In the current version, there are 130 conceptual rulesfor 50 models of events, and 75 rhetorical rules.In any case, the system generates a whole letter on acomplex problem (15-20 sentences) in less than 2,5seconds.5.
ConclusionThe distinction between deep and surface structure ofthe text allows the system to generate relevant lettersfrom an argumentative point of view.Besides, letters may deal with a rather large numberof various topics (payment of lost or damaged items,etc.).
Our concern was therefore to factor the informationas much as possible, in other words we wanted to makecertain pieces of knowledge portable.
For that purpose, itis interesting here to remind the distinction betweendomain knowledge and domain communicativeknowledge (DCK) proposed in (Kittredge and al., 1991).For example a police crime report and a detective novelcan use the same domain knowledge but the DCK isquite different.
We think that it is preferable to call thisknowledge "Style Dependent Knowledge", because twodetective novels in two different "domains" (for examplea political murder and a crime of passion) could have thesame style.In our system, conceptual rules are clearly domain-dependent.
The communicative knowledge used by therhetoric module to compute the surface structure of thetext is style-dependent but it is domain-portable.ReferencesCerbah Farid (1992).
"Integrating qualitative reasoningand text planning to generate causal explanations" inProceedings of 1992 International ComputationalLinguistics Conference.Coch Jos4, and David RaphaSl (1994).
"Une applicationde g6n6ration de textes" in Actes de TALN'94.
France.Elhadad Michael, and Mc Keown, Kathleen.
R.
(1990).
"Generating connectives" in Proceedings of 1990International Computational Linguistics Conference.Elhadad Michael (1992).
"Generating coherentargumentative paragraphs" in Proceedings of 1992International Computational Linguistics Conference.Kittredge Richard, Korelsky Tanya, and Rainbow Owen(1991) "On the need for domain communicationknowledge" in Computational Intelligence V7, N4,Canada.Mann William C. and Thompson Sandra.
A.
(1988).
"Rhetorical Structure Theory: Towards a functionaltheory of text organization" in Text 8(3).204
