TECHDOC:  Multi l ingual generation ofonline and offline instructional textDietmar  RSsnerFAW UlmP.O.
Box 2060, 89010 Ulm, Germanyroesner@faw.uni-ulm.deManfred Stede(University of Toronto and) FAW UlmP.O.
Box 2060, 89010 Ulm, Germanystede@faw.uni-ulm.deProject ideaSupplying technical documentation accompanying aproduct in multiple languages is a growing prob-lem, particularly in Europe with its legislation onthe common market.
A huge amount of translationwork needs to be done when creating and updat-ing technical documentation.
In response to theseneeds, the TECHDOC project aims at supportingthe creation and maintenance of technical documen-tation by knowledge-based, multilingual generation.The idea is to build up a knowledge base that in-cludes a model of the product in question, and toproduce documentation i  multiple languages auto-matically.
At present, the system produces mainte-nance instructions in English, German, and French.The application domain of TECHDOC is techni-cal manuals, where one has to do with "real-world"texts: the domain is practical instead of a "toyworld".
At the same time, the language that is usedin such manuals tends to be relatively simple; onemostly finds straightforward instructions that havebeen written with the intention to produce text thatcan be readily understood by a person who is ex-ecuting some maintenance activity.
Moreover, thestructure of manual sections is largely uniform andamenable to formalization.System architectureThe system is based on a KB encoding knowledgeabout the technical domain and about schematictext structure in LOOM, a KL-ONE dialect (LOOM1991).
A typical manual section first describes thelocation of the object to be repaired/maintained andthen lists possible replacement parts/substances;next, the activities are described, which fall intothe three general categories of checking some at-tribute (e.g., a fluid level), adding a substance andreplacing a part/substance.
These actions are repre-sented as plans in the traditional AI sense, i.e.
withpre- and postconditions, and with recursive struc-ture (steps can be elaborated through complete re-finement plans).
We call the schematic ordering ofa manual section its macrostructure.For a language-independent text representation, alevel was sought that captures the commonalities ofthe correponding sections of the German, Englishand French texts, i.e.
that is not tailored towards oneof the specific languages.
Rhetorical Structure The-ory (RST) (Mann and Thompson 1987) turned outto be a useful formalism: for almost every section weinvestigated in our extensive corpus studies of mul-tilingual manuals, the RST analyses for the differentlanguage versions were identical.
The system imple-ments this finding by mapping the schematic planstructure to a tree that captures the microstructureof documents by means of rhetorical relations hold-ing among elementary propositions or sub-trees, anda number of specific annotations.
See (RSsner andStede 1992) for details.This document representation is successivelytransformed into a sequence of sentence plans (to-gether with formatting instructions in a selectabletarget format; SGML, ISTEX, Zmacs and - for screenoutput - formatted ASCII are currently supported),which are handed over to sentence generators.
ForEnglish, we use Penman (Penman 1991) and it ssentence planning language (SPL) as input terms.To produce German text, we have implementeda (partial) German version of Penman's grammar(NIGEL), which is enhanced by a morphology mod-ule, and a fragment of a French grammar in the samestyle.Interactive, mult imodal instructionsThe interactive variant of the system, TECHDOC-I(Peter and R6sner 1994), produces instructions on-line, by engaging in a dialog with the user.
Onthe basis of initial questions, users are assigned toa stereotypical class (ranging from 'novice' to 'ex-pert'), which subsequently influences the degree ofdetail in which instructions are produced.The generated texts on the screen are mouse-sensitive, so that the user can click on words orphrases (in any of the languages displayed) and re-quest additional information.
Depending on the unitselected, a menu offers a range of applicable itemsfor further inquiries.
For example, the location ofan object referred to in the text can be clarified by209an image in which that part is highlighted.
Or, if anaction is selected, the system offers to show a shortvideo sequence on the screen, which illustrates howthat action is to be performed.In essence, these facilities have paved the way tomove from static, inactive strings as output o an ac-tive and dynamic interface for the associated knowl-edge sources and their various presentation modal-ities.
The key is that all kinds of information (lex-emes in various languages, images and object's lo-cation therein, and video sequences) are associatedwith the underlying KB objects.Document  author ing supportApart from supporting the end user with an inter-active system, the system is now being enhanced onthe "opposite nd", where the input to the docu-ment generation process is created.
A first versionof an authoring tool has been designed and imple-mented and tested with a number of users.
This toolallows to interactively build up knowledge base in-stances of maintenance plans, including the actionsand objects involved, and to convert hem imme-diately into multilingual documents.
The processis menu-driven, and the available options are deter-mined dynamically in accordance with the currentstate of the knowledge base - -  in other words, theknowledge already encoded in the KB constrains therange of possible instances that are to be built withthe authoring tool.Portable KB: the "middle model"Our KB design focuses on the targets that the rep-resentations can be used for more than languagegeneration (tutoring, diagnosis ystems, etc.)
andthat they should be portable across different techni-cal domains.
We have collected recurring knowledgeabout various technical devices like types of connec-tions, about switches, about objects that turn up ina variety of designs and functions, for example fluidtanks, etc., in a middle modelthat can be carried, to-gether with the basic ontology (the so-called 'uppermodel' (Bateman 1990)), from one technical domainto the next.
As the first practical domain extension,we moved from automobile manuals to several sec-tions of aircraft maintenance instructions, where themodel of the specific objects and devices was sub-sumed under the middle model, in the place wherethe automobile model previously resided.The middle model is a set of quite abstract con-cepts; separating lexical from conceptual informa-tion allows us to account for lexical differences be-tween the languages; in our corpus studies of au-tomobile manuals, we found, for instance, that En-glish often uses the general remove where Germanverbs characterize the physical action more specif-ically (abziehen, abnehmen, herausschrauben, her-ausziehen, etc.).
Our lexicalization procedure cap-tures these language-specific d fferences by exploringsubsumption (see (Stede 1993)); the important pointto note here is that such lexical matters are indepen-dent of the "conceptual kernel", which is representedin a language-independent way and allows for shar-ing as much information as possible.Perspective: From research prototype topractical usageTECHDOC is being developed into two complemen-tary directions: toward online, interactive instruc-tion dialog on the one hand, and toward productionof fully formatted paper documents on the other.Each is suitable for its particular purposes; both areimportant.
Online systems, for example, will makesense in settings where the system can be given sen-sory data from the device (temperature, pressurevalues, etc.)
and thus exactly those instructions canbe generated that are relevant in the current situa-tion.
Paper documents, on the other hand, will stillbe used for getting familar with a product prior tousing it, as well as for reference purposes - -  theywon't vanish altogether.ReferencesJohn A. Bateman.
Upper modeling: A level of se-mantics for natural language processing.
In Proc.of the 5th International WS on Natural LanguageGeneration, Pittsburgh, PA, 1990.The LOOM Knowledge Representation System.Documentation package, USC/ISI, Marina DelRey, CA, 1991.William C. Mann and Sandra A. Thompson.Rhetorical structure theory: A theory of text or-ganization.
In L.Polanyi, editor, The Structure ofDiscourse.
Ablex, Norwood, NJ, 1987.The Penman documentation package.
USC/ISI, Ma-rina Del Rey, CA, 1991.Gerhard Peter and Dietmar RSsner.
User-model-driven generation of instructions.
To appearin User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction,1994.Dietmar RSsner and Manfred Stede.
CustomizingRST for the automatic production of technicalmanuals.
In R. Dale, E. Hovy, D. RSsner, andO.
Stock, editors, Aspects of Automated Natu-ral Language Generation - Proc.
of the 6th In-ternational WS on Natural Language Generation.Springer, Berlin/Heidelberg, 1992.Manfred Stede.
Lexical options in multilingual gen-eration from a knowledge base.
In: Working notesof the 4th European Workshop on Natural Lan-guage Generation.210
