SUBLANGUAGE ENGINEERING IN THE FOG SYSTEMRichard Kittredget$tDepartment of Linguistics and TranslationUniversity of MontrealMontreal, QuebecCANADA H3C 3J7kittredg@iro.umontreal.caEli GoldbergEnvironment Canada4905 DufferinDownsview, OntarioCANADA M3H 5T4goldb erge@ aest or.
dot s. doe.
caMyunghee Kim$CoGenTex, Inc.5911 rue DolbeauMontreal, QuebecCANADA H3S 2G1myunghee@cogentex.qc.caAlain Polgu~reDepartment of English Language and LiteratureNational University of Singapore10 Kent Ridge CrescentSINGAPORE 0511ellalain@leonis.nus.sgAbstractFoG currently produces bilingual marineand public weather forecasts at severalCanadian weather offices.
The systemis engineered to reflect "good professionalstyle" as found in human forecasts.
How-ever, some regularization and simplifica-tion of the output has been needed.
Sub-language ngineering issues include trade-offs in coverage and style, handling varia-tion and evolution of sublanguages, "leg-islating" lexical semantics and assuring alanguage model able to accomodate newtext types and support spoken output.1 Background and System OverviewFoG (for Forecast Generator) was developed ur-ing 1985-89 (Kittredge t al., 1986; Bourbeau et al,1990).
After tests at Environment Canada during1989-91, FoG entered regular use during 1991-92,first for marine forecasts, and more recently for pub-lic forecasts.
Forty percent of the operational marineforecasts (roughly half of all marine forecast text) inCanada is now produced using FoG.Meteorologists have been very receptive to usingFoG, which is now a "back-end" facility of the FPAgraphics workstation.
The FPA supports the graph-ical analysis of weather while providing the rule-based concept formation eeded to drive both textgeneration and non-linguistic applications.
Meteo-rologists now concentrate on weather analysis andgive less thought o how forecasts hould be verbal-ized.
Still, it has taken much time and effort to fittext generation i to their work environment, and re-spond to new requirements.
Operational experiencehas shown that some linguistic refinements first pro-posed during design were of low priority to users,compared with other features which were not origi-nally anticipated.Early work on FoG set up a specialized sublan-guage grammar for marine forecasts, based on anal-ysis of more than 100,000 words of archived En-glish text.
Corpus analysis of each forecast ype hasbeen supplemented byinterviews and other means tocheck validity of categorizations and rules.
In con-trast to earlier work on machine translation (TAUM-METEO), where sublanguage grammars had to berelatively complete to recognize ach possible hu-man input text, generation of forecasts from con-cepts provides an opportunity to "engineer out" in-frequent words and sentence patterns as long as eachintended text content coming into the text planneris sayable in good quality text.
The simplificationand regularization of sublanguage grammars raisesquestions for engineering design.
We are no longerjust engineering the system to fit the sublanguage,but also engineering the output sublanguage itself toachieve goals such as simplicity (without significantloss of expressiveness) and clarity.Different types of forecasts have differences inword usage, grammatical patterns and text struc-ture, but the similarities are strong enough for themto be treated withing the same grammatical frame-work.
This means that they require different extplanners (and lexicons), but can use similar gram-matical realizers.
Significantly, English and Frenchforecasts issued in Canada use the same principlesfor determining sentence boundaries, ordering andcombining clauses, and formatting the output text.This greatly simplifies the problem of bilingual fore-cast generation i FoG.FoG uses three major stages to compose forecasts:(1) graphically mediated content determination, (2)text planning resulting in interlingual forms, and(3) realization of English and French texts fromthe interlingua.
Details are given in (Kittredge and215Polgu~re, 1991) and (Goldberg et al, 1994).2 Sublanguage Engineering IssuesEarly corpus analysis of marine forecasts identi-fied a few kinds of information which were be-ing conveyed with high frequency, as well as a"mixed bag" of phenomena ofmuch lower frequency(e.g., WINDS HIGHER IN FJORDS and FOG LIFTINGAS WINDS GRADUALLY INCREASE in Arctic regions).It was decided not to generate those sentence typesrequiring deep meteorological reasoning, to avoidhigh implementation cost.
Over time, however,there has been some pressure to convey low fre-quency information which has significant value formarine safety (e.g., unexpectedly high winds in Arc-tic fjords).
Use of a corpus has facilitated bringinglow-frequency problems to the attention of systembuilders and users, so that deliberate design deci-sions can be made before the system is implemented.An early goal in FoG was to generate text withstylistic variation by making use of paraphrase al-ternatives.
Text generation typically provides anopportunity to introduce paraphrase variation, al-though the traditional problem has been findingways of choosing from among the possible alterna-tives (Iordanskaja et al, 1991).
However, many in-stances of apparent free variation turned out to havea tendency toward contextual determination, and itappeared easiest to build these tendencies into strictrules.
In other cases individual forecasters voiced aclearcut preference for one variant form, which wassubsequently implemented as the unique choice, atleast for a given weather centre.
The final result wasthe elimination of paraphrase from the generator.
Itis not clear that this is optimal, but it has simpli-fied the design and implementation process duringa phase when forecasters felt that there were moreurgent problems.One of the surprises in the development of FoG hasbeen the constant evolution of language usage initi-ated by forecasters.
New phenomena are being in-troduced (e.g., ultraviolet radiation warnings), otherphenomena are de-emphasized, and better ways arefound to say the same thing.
The reasons for thishave been quite varied and often specific to a givenforecasting office and its client community.
The con-stant "drift" ofsublanguage usage at individual fore-casting sites has led to maintenance of local vari-ant systems.
The flow of change requests has con-firmed the need to keep the components of FoG intheir most declarative and transparent form for easymaintenance.Early work showed cases where roughly synony-mous words turned out to have somewhat differ-ent fuzzy semantics.
For example winds can both"strengthen" and "increase", but the former termtends to be used with high wind speeds.
We incor-porated a strict separation rule by "legislating" apoint on the wind speed scale to separate the twoword definitions.
In other cases, apparently randomvariation in usage by forecasters led to an attemptto introduce a reasonable set of criteria for choos-ing one variant form over another.
It appears thatthe very idea of free variation in forecast wording isdifficult for forecasters to accept, and this naturaltendency actually makes life easier (but less inter-esting) for system designers.Future extensions to FoG are planned, includingnew forecast ypes (e.g., technical synopses) and anoption for synthesized speech output, building on theexisting linguistic model.
We would also like to gen-erate forecasts in languages such as Inuktitut, butthis may require a deeper interlingual representa-tion, such as the semantic net aleady used in otherapplications (Iordanskaja et al, 1991).
However,languages like Inuktitut also use different conceptu-alizations of the weather than English and French,which might go beyond the capabilities of the FPA.Recent attempts to produce spoken forecasts withconcatenated speech techniques or commercial text-to-speech output devices suffer from a lack of goodprosody.
FoG's Meaning-Text language model pro-vides for explicit prosodic structure, percolatingfrom the interlingual representation to a new pho-netic representation level.
Contrastive stress willcome from text planning, while most other featuresaffecting pitch will come from surface syntactic spec-ifications.ReferencesL.
Bourbeau, D. Carcagno, E. Goldberg, R. Kit-tredge and A. Polgu~re.
1990.
Bilingual Gener-ation of Weather Forecasts in an Operations En-vironment.
In Proc.
of COLING-90, v.3, pp.318-320, Helsinki.E.
Goldberg, R. Kittredge, and N. Driedger.
1994.FoG: A New Approach to the Synthesis ofWeather Forecast Text.
In IEEE Expert (SpecialTrack on NLP), April 1994.L.
Iordanskaja, R. Kittredge t A. Polgu~re.
1991.Lexical Selection and Paraphrase in a Meaning-Text Generation Model.
In Natural LanguageGeneration in Artificial Intelligence and Compu-talional Linguistics, (C. Paris, W. Swartout et W.Mann, eds.
), Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Pub-lishers, pp.293-312.Richard Kittredge and Alain Polgu~re.
1991.
De-pendency Grammars for Bilingual Text Genera-tion.
In Proc.
of the Int'l.
Conf.
on Current Issuesin Comp.
Linguistics, pages 318-330, Penang.R.
Kittredge, A. Polgu~re and E. Goldberg 1986.Synthesis of Weather Forecasts from FormattedData.
In Proc.
of COLING-86, pp.563-565, Bonn.216
