Upholding the Maxim of Relevanceduring Patient-Centered Activit iesAbiga i l  S. Ger tner  and  Bonn ie  L .
Webber  John  R .
C la rkeComputer  ~ In format ion  Sc ienceUn ivers i ty  of  Pennsy lvan iaPh i lade lph ia  PA  19104-6389agertner?linc, cis.
upenn, edubonnie@central, cis.
upenn, eduAbstractThis paper addresses "kinds and focuses ofrelevance" that a language-generating clin-ical decision-support system should adhereto during activities in which a health careprovider's attention is on his or her pa-tient and not on a computer screen.
Dur-ing such "patient-centered" activities, ut-terances generated by a computer systemintrude on patient management.
Theymust be thus seen by HCPs as havingimmediate clinical relevance, or, like thecontinual ringing of ICU monitors, theywill be ignored.
This paper describes howplan recognition and plan evaluation canbe used to achieve clinical relevance.
Thework is being done in the context of theTraumAID project, whose overall goal is toimprove the delivery of quality trauma careduring the initial definitive phase of patientmanagement.
Given an early pilot studythat showed that physicians using Traum-AID disliked the continuous presentation ofits entire management plan, we decided toexplore how TraumAID could restrict com-mentary to only those situations in whicha comment could make a clinically signifi-cant difference to patient management.
Wetook advantage of the fact that actions thatinvolve resources that need to be broughtto the trauma bay or that can only bedone elsewhere must be ordered.
Since or-ders can be rescinded, comments pointingout problems with an order can potentiallymake a clinically significant difference topatient management.
The contributions ofthis paper are (1) pointing out additional*This work has been supported in part by theArmy Research Organization under grant DAAL03-89-C0031PRI, the National Library of Medicine under grantR01 LM05217-01 and the Agency for Health Care Policyand Research under grant RO1 HS06740.
The authorswould fike to thank Mark Steedman and Jonathan Kayefor their helpful comments on earlier drafts of this paper.Depar tment  of  SurgeryMed ica l  Col lege of Pennsy lvan ia3300 Henry  AvenuePh i lade lph ia  PA  19129j clarke@gradient, cis.
upenn, edu *constraints on language generation raisedby the desire to convey information to lis-teners attending to something other thanan computer terminal, and (2) pointing outsome features of plan inference and evalu-ation raised by multiple goal planning in acomplex domain.1 In t roduct ionOrdinary use of Natural Language adheres to whatGrice has called the "cooperative principle of conver-sation" (Grice, 1975).
Four categories of "maxims"elaborate this principle.
Under the category of Re-lation, Grice places the single maxim "Be relevant",noting that this terse formulation conceals a num-ber of unsolved problems, including that of "whatdifferent kinds and focuses of relevance there maybe".This paper addresses "kinds and focuses of rele-vance" that a language-generating clinical decision-support system should adhere to during patient-centered activities - that is, activities in which ahealth care provider's (HCP) attention is on hisor her patient and not on a computer screen.
1Such activities include surgery, childbirth, and emer-gency medical care (including the responsibilities ofEmergency Medical Technicians).
During patient-centered activities, utterances generated by a com-puter system intrude on patient management.
Theymust be seen by HCPs as having immediate clinicalrelevance, or, like the continual ringing of ICU mon-itors, they will be ignored.
Utterances that wouldnot make a clinically significant difference to patientmanagement must be avoided.
This paper describeshow plan recognition and plan evaluation can beused to achieve this end.This work is being done in the context of theTraumAID project (Clarke et al, 1993; Clarke etal., 1994; Rymon et al, 1993; Webber et al, 1992),a In this sense, our emphasis differs from Sperber andWilson (Sperber and Wilson, 1986), who are concernedwith the problem of inferences that can be made underthe assumption of relevance.125whose overall goal is to improve the delivery of qual-ity trauma care during the initial definitive phase ofpatient management.
Initial definitive managementscopes a complex range of diagnostic and therapeu-tic procedures.
Resolving often conflicting demandsfor managing multiple injuries requires global rea-soning that can exceed the restricted locality of rule-based systems.
The modular architecture of the cur-rent system, TraumAID 2.0, consists of two comple-mentary processes: (1) a rule-based reasoner able todraw diagnostic onclusions and identify what goalseach of them implies; and (2) a planner that takesthe set of currently relevant goals and constructs amanagement plan - a partially-ordered sequence ofactions - that is most appropriate at that point intime.TraumAID 2.0 has been retrospectively validatedagainst actual trauma management plans for 97 non-pregnant adult patients presenting consecutively tothe Medical College of Pennsylvania (MCP) TraumaCenter with penetrating injuries to the chest and/orabdomen.
A blinded comparison of managementplans was carried out by a panel of three experiencedtrauma surgeons.
They preferred TraumAID 2.0%plans to actual management to a statistically signif-icant extent (Clarke et al, 1993).A decision support system will not be clinicallyviable without solving its interface problems.
Forus, this means (1) getting TraumAID the informa-tion it needs for its reasoning and planning, and (2)getting the results of TraumAID's reasoning to themembers of the trauma team (in particular, to thechief surgical resident) during the course of care.To get information into TraumAID, we have de-veloped an electronic version of a standard traumaflow sheet, so that information can be entered by thescribe nurse during the trauma resuscitation.
2 Theelectronic trauma flow sheet is implemented in Hy-perCard, supported by a FoxPro database.
Relevantinformation entered by the scribe nurse is automat-ically passed to TraumAID 2.0.The focus of this paper is the problem of deliveringthe results of TraumAID's deliberations, given anearly pilot study that showed that physicians usingTraumAID disliked the continuous presentation ofits entire management plan.
(Currently, this is dis-played on the nurse's monitor in a separate window.
)The reasons for physician dissatisfaction appear tobe that (1) much of the time, TraumAID's recom-2One member of the trauma team is a nurse who func-tions as a scribe, documenting all the findings, tests, andtreatments in chronological order for the record.
Themultiple page trauma flow sheet has designated areas forspecific information, such as demographics, mechanismof injury, physician response times, trauma score, Glas-gow coma score, vital signs, location of wounds, resultsof primary assessment, intravenous therapy, diagnosticand therapeutic procedures, medications given, fluid in-take and output, and disposition.mendation coincided with the physicians' own plans,and (2) having the entire plan presented made it dif-ficult for the physicians to determine what, if any-thing, they should focus on.
To put it another way,presenting the entire plan violates Grice's Maxim ofRelevance.We decided to explore how TraumAID could re-strict commentary to only those situations in whicha comment would be clinically relevant in terms ofits potential for making a clinically significant differ-ence to patient management.
We took advantage ofthe fact that actions that involve resources that needto be brought to the trauma bay or that can onlybe done elsewhere must be ordered.
Since orders canbe rescinded, comments pointing out problems withan order can potentially make a clinically significantdifference to patient management.
Our prototypeinterface for TraumAID produces commentary whenan order differs significantly from what TraumAIDwould recommend.
It also generates commentarywhen the physician fails to order something thatTraumAID thinks should be done within the imme-diate time frame.
The interface, TraumaTIQ (Gert-net, 1994; Gertner, 1994b), uses plan inference andplan evaluation to recognize both such errors of com-mission and errors of omission.
In this paper, we de-scribe TraumAID's knowledge of management goalsand actions that are used in plan inference and eval-uation (Section 2), the plan recognition and evalu-ation strategies that allow TraumaTIQ to recognizeclinically significant differences in patient manage-ment(Section 3), and the additional problems forplan recognition, plan evaluation and critique gener-ation caused by a planner's ability to optimize plansthrough what Pollack has called "overloading inten-tions" (Pollack, 1991) (Section 4).
We conclude withmention of our planned prospective valuations ofTraumAID and TraumaTIQ and a summary of ourmain points (Section 5).2 The  Representat iona l  F rameworkIn TraumAID, a plan is a set of procedures, each ofwhich comprises one or more actions.
Proceduresare used to address diagnostic and therapeutic man-agement goals motivated by what is currently knownabout the patient.
A particular action can partici-pate in more than one procedure, and thus can beused in addressing more than one goal.
As notedearlier, TraumAID uses a rule-based reasoner to de-rive a set of relevant goals from the currently avail-able knowledge about the patient and a planner tochoose appropriate procedures to address those goalsand schedules the actions they involve.TraumAID's reasoner controls information acqui-sition using a conservative, staged strategy for di-agnosis and treatment (Rymon, 1993): expensive,definitive tests are not included in a plan until theyare justified by less costly tests or observations, and126G1 (32 G1 G2A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A1 A2 A3Shared Action Shared ProcedureFigure h Three possible multipleGIqA1 A2 A3G2A4 A5 A6Independentgoal-procedure-action co figurationsgoalsproceduresactionsdefinitive treatment is not recommended without heresults of sufficient evidence from diagnostic tests.
3These strategies are reflected in the knowledge baseby the occurrence of related management goals, suchas a goal to diagnose hematuria (blood in the urine),which if present, triggers a goal to diagnose bladderinjury, which in turn can lead to a goal to treat blad-der injury.
Goals that do not participate together ina coherent strategy may still be connected by testresults.
For example, the goal of finding a bullet inthe mediastinum leads to doing a lateral chest x-ray.While this might also reveal a fractured sternum,there is no strategic relationship between the goal offinding a bullet in the mediastinum and the goal oftreating a fractured sternum.Once a set of relevant goals has been determined,the planner's choice of how address each goal isbased on both local and global considerations.
Goalsand procedures are linked via a goal-procedure map-ping which lists alternative procedures for address-ing each goal.
The procedures in a mapping arelisted in order of preference so that, all else beingequal, the first procedure will be chosen to addressthe goal.
Less preferred procedures may be selectedif they would result in a globally more optimal (lesscostly) plan.
Figure 1 shows three possible configu-rations for a portion of a plan addressing two goals.
(Section 4 discusses the consequences for plan recog-nition, evaluation and critiquing, of the ability tocreate plans in which actions and/or procedures areshared between goals.
)Actions are scheduled according to both logisticaland clinical considerations.
Logistical considerationsmean that patients are only moved in one directionthrough the Trauma Center - from the emergencycenter, optionally to the radiology suite, then op-tionally to the operating suite, and finally to the3The one case where this is not true is when a patientcomes in near death, with catastrophic chest wounds.Surgery is recommended immediately, without attempt-ing to diagnose what specific injuries may have beensustained.127trauma unit.
Since actions may have constraints onwhere they can be performed, they are scheduled soas to avoid transferring the patient back to a placehe has already been.Clnical considerations have to do with the ur-gency and priority of each action, which it inher-its from the goals it is being used to address.
Theurgency can be either calastrophic, unstable, or sta-ble, representing the patient's condition and thus theamount of time available in which to address thatgoal.
Catastrophic goals must be addressed imme-diately.
Unstable goals must be addressed beforestable goals.
Priorities represent standard practicesof trauma care: if there are no differences in urgency,problems involving the airway are addressed beforethose involving breathing, which are addressed be-fore those involving circulation, etc.
(the "ABCs oftrauma care").3 In terpret ing  and  React ing  toOrdersWe have claimed that in patient-centered activities,the effectiveness of a "by-stander" decision-supportsystem depends on focusing its clinical role on theimmediate needs of physicians rather than interven-ing with information that, while correct and apro-pos, would not make a significant difference to pa-tient management.
In order to achieve this, ourapproach is largely reactive rather than proactive.As noted in Section 1, instead of presenting Traum-AID's recommended management plan, TraumaTIQwaits for the physician's orders, which are treatedas intentions to perform those actions.
TraumaTIQinterprets and evaluates these intentions, and gen-erates a comment if it would be relevant o do so.TraumaTIQ also interprets the lack of an orderedaction within an appropriate time frame as indicat-ing the physician's lack of intention to perform thataction and evaluates it as such.
This approach is aform of critiquing, early examples of which are (Lan-glotz and Shortliffe, 1983; Miller, 1986).TraumaTIQ's critiquing process is triggeredwhenever new information is entered by the scribenurse and delivered to TraumAID.
This informationcan be in the form of (1) bedside findings, (2) di-agnostic test results (indicating both that a diag-nostic action has been performed and what the re-sults of that action were), (3) therapeutic actionsperformed, or (4) diagnostic or therapeutic actionsordered by the physician.
TraumaTIQ interprets thephysician's orders in a goal-directed manner, usingTraumAID's representation f goals, procedures andactions, so that the critique can address the likelyreasons underlying any discrepancies and can sug-gest alternative means of addressing a particulargoal.
Figure 2 shows the architecture of Trauma-TIQ, comprising plan recognition, plan evaluation,and critique generation.3.1 P lan  Recogn i t ionIn order to judge when it is relevant o commenton a physicians orders or lack thereof, it is useful toconsider not only what actions have been ordered,but also why.
For example, this can allow commentsto be withheld if an ordered action that differs fromTraumAID's choice would nevertheless atisfy perti-nent management goals.
TraumaTIQ's plan recog-nition component aims to infer the underlying oalstructure motivating the physician's orders for ac-tions to be performed.
Note that this is an exampleof keyhole recognition, rather than intended recogni-tion (Kautz, 1990).
The physician does not intend toprovide enough information to allow others to inferhis plans.
Like other members of the trauma team,TraumaTIQ must infer the plan incrementally basedon what is known about the patient and what hasbeen ordered so far.Trauma management poses particular problemsfor plan recognition.
First, there is no fully pre-set sequence in which actions are ordered and done.Secondly, multiple diagnostic and therapeutic goalsmay simultaneously be active, and a single actioncan often be used to address several related or un-related goals.
In this domain, it would thus be in-correct o simplify search by minimizing the numberof top-level goals in the inferred plan, as Kautz andothers have proposed (Kautz, 1990).
Third, a planrecognition strategy cannot assume that the physi-cian's plan is correct: management of trauma pa-tients must often be done late at night and undertime pressure, conditions that can lead to less thanoptimal decision-making even in trained profession-als.
Since the number of possible incorrect plans istoo large to encode a priori, we must make certainassumptions about physicians' plans:?
The head of a trauma team will have expert ornear-expert knowledge of trauma, and will usu-ally develop plans that are similar to Traum-AID's.
Thus, if an action has been orderedthat is also in TraumAID's plan, TraumaTIQassumes that it is being done for the same rea-son(s).
We call this giving the physician the"benefit of the doubt."?
The physician is more likely to have appropriategoals but be addressing them in a sub-optimalway, than to be pursuing the wrong goals alto-gether.?
While TraumAID follows a conservative strat-egy for pursuing diagnosis and treatment fromobservations, physicians may proceed morerapidly, pursuing a goal that may be involvedin a current strategy but for which TraumAIDdoes not yet have enough evidence to concludeits relevance.
An understanding of the strate-gic relationships between goals should help torecognize xamples of this difference.Reflecting these assumptions, the plan recognitionalgorithm works as follows:1.
When an action, a, is ordered by the physician,check whether ~ is currently a part of Traum-AID's recommended plan as a means of satisfy-ing all or part of goal 7, or all or part of eachmember of a set of goals F.2.
If so, add 3' or F to the representation of thephysician's plan.3.
If a is not currently in TraumAID's plan, de-termine whether there is a relevant goal that amight address:(a) If any of the goals that might lead to doingare present in TraumAID's current set ofactive goals, assume that c~ is being doneto address that goal or goals.
(b) In the case that there is no relevant goalto explain why the physician is ordering a,check whether any of the possible goals mo-tivating a are part of a currently active di-agnostic strategy (cf.
Section 2).
(c) If no relevant goal or strategy is found,leave the goal unspecified and add the in-tention to do a to the representation ofthe physician's plan with no goal attached.There is one exception to this rule:(d) If the system only knows of one possiblegoal that would lead to performing c~, Trau-maTIQ assumes that a is being done toaddress that goal, even though it does notconsider the goal to be relevant.3.2 P lan  Eva luat ionAfter attempting to infer the goal(s) underlying thephysician's actions, TraumaTIQ attempts to identifywhether commentary is warranted on any aspectsof his plan.
Plan evaluation begins by comparingthe plan attributed to the physician with the planproduced by TraumAID, looking for four types ofdiscrepancies:128TraumAtD 2.0 \](~.
patient "~ ( f  actions .~_ .
.~  ~ l a n ~I Generation \[ ~ .... ~ /Figure 2: The TraumaTIQ module?
Omission: A goal that TraumAID considers rel-evant is not being addressed by the physicianin a timely manner.
This can be further an-alyzed as to whether (1) the goal is not beingaddressed at all, or (2) the goal is only beingpartially addressed - some but not all the ac-tions in the procedure addressing the goal havebeen ordered.?
Commission: An action is present in the physi-cian's plan that does not address arelevant goal.If a unique goal can be inferred to explain thisdiscrepancy, that goal can be further catego-rized as to whether (1) it is unwarranted, (2) itis not fully proven, or (3) it has already beenaddressed.?
Procedure choice: A relevant goal is being ad-dressed, but not using the procedure preferredby TraumAID.?
Scheduling: Actions are not being done in theorder recommended by Traumaid, e.g., satisfy-ing urgent goals before non-urgent ones.TraumaTIQ upholds the Maxim of Relevance byattempting to avoid comments hat may later proveirrelevant.
Errors of omission are not critiqued untila sufficient period of time has elapsed uring whichthe physician might order the action.
The amountof time allowed depends on the urgency of the goalthat the action is intended to address - the rule ofthumb TraumaTIQ uses is that a comment shouldbe produced after approximately 10% of the timeperiod has passed that is available to address thegoal without significant consequences.
Furthermore,comments are only made with respect o goals thatcannot be made irrelevant by actions scheduled tobe done before those goals are addressed.Discrepancies of all types are then evaluated interms of their potential clinical significance.
Cur-rently this is only a rough estimate based on ap-proximate cost and whether or not a procedure isinvasive.
For example, an unnecessary chest x-ray isconsidered insignificant while an unnecessary (andinvasive) laparotomy is considered clinically signif-icant and worth drawing to the physician's atten-tion.
We are currently in the process of developingmore objective criteria for classifying errors accord-ing to their potential impact on the outcome of thecase.
Each discrepancy will be classified as either:(1) tolerable, probably harmless, (2) non-critical, butpotentially harmful, or (3) critical, potentially fatal.Anything in the second or third category will be con-sidered significant enough to be reported in the cri-tique, while tolerable rrors will not be mentioned.The output of plan evaluation is a set of com-municative goals containing (1) a propositional con-tent (PC) indicating the type of discrepancy and theparticular TraumAID concepts involved, and (2) ani l locutionary force (IF), such as URGE, INFOrtM oraEMIND, indicating how the information should berealized linguistically.
For example, the goal:(SUGGEST(PROCEDURE-CHOICE GET-X-RAY-LAT-ABDGET-CT-SCAN-ABD129P~O-CoMPOUND-FRACTURE-LUMBAR-VERTESRA))would be produced in a situation in which the physi-cian has ordered a CT-scan of the abdomen, whichTraumaTIQ has inferred is intended to address thegoal of diagnosing a compound fracture of the lum-bar vertebra, which TraumAID has instead chosento address with a considerably less costly, less time-consuming lateral abdominal X-ray.
The illocution-ary force of SUGGEST indicates that this is a non-critical error.
Had it been evaluated as a criticalerror, the illocutionary force would have been URGE.3.3 Cr i t ique  Generat ionCritique generation serves to organize TraumaTIQ'scommunicative goals according to the managementgoals they address and to translate them into Nat-ural Language utterances.
This is currently theleast sophisticated part of the process: each IF-PCpair indexes a sentential template with syntacticallymarked slots to be filled in with the appropriatephrasal translation of a TraumAID concept.
For ex-ample, the template indexed by (SUGGEST, PROCE-DURE CHOICE) is:"TraumAID suggests (ARG1 GERUN-DIVE) rather than (ARG2 GERUN-DIVE).
The former is preferred for (ARG3GERUNDIVE).
"The first and second slots are filled in with gerun-dive phrases corresponding to GET-X-RAY-LAW-ABD and GET-CT-SCAN-ABD, while the third slotis filled in with an untensed verb phrase corre-sponding to R,O-COMPOUND-FRACTURE-LUMBAR-VERTEBRA, resulting in the sentence:"TraumAID suggests getting a lateral X-Ray of the abdomen rather than getting aCT-sean of the abdomen.
The former ispreferred for checking for fracture of thelumbar vertebrae.
"Critiques can be delivered irectly to the traumabay through synthesized speech or to the scribenurse for subsequent delivery to the trauma team.4 Action OverloadingAs mentioned earlier, it is possible for a single actionto participate in addressing more than one manage-ment goal.
This strategy of doubling-up the use ofplan elements is called intention overloading by Pol-lack (Pollack, 1991), who argues that it can simplifythe process of computing optimal plans.
It can, how-ever, complicate the process of recognizing and eval-uating them.
Our strategy in TraumaTIQ is to as-sume that overloading occurs in the physician's planwhenever it would be beneficial.
In other words, ifan action ordered by the physician can be used to ad-dress two or more relevant goals, it is assumed thatthat is what the physician intends.
This assump-tion makes sense because as long as both goals arebeing addressed, there is no need to produce a cri-tique, even if the physician did not have both goalsin mind.If, on the other hand, there is a possibility for over-loading that the physician does not exploit, it maybe clinically relevant o mention it.
For example,consider a patient with a gunshot wound to the ab-domen, loss of sensation in both legs, and hematuria(Figure 3a).
From the first two findings, TraumAIDderives a goal of diagnosing a compound fracture ofthe lumbar vertebra, and from the type of woundand the finding of hematuria it derives a goal of di-agnosing renal injury.
Both goals can be addressedby a single abdominal CT-scan.Figure 3b shows the plan that is inferred from thephysician's order of a lateral abdominal x-ray, whichis appropriate for the goal of diagnosing a fracturedvertebra, but not for diagnosing renal injury.
In thissituation, two points are clinically relevant: (1) thegoal of diagnosing renal injury should be addressed,and (2) both goals can be addressed with the singleaction of an abdominal CT-scan, obviating the needto do an X-ray to address one'of them.
In this case acomment such as the following would be produced:"TraumAID suggests getting an abdominalCT-scan rather than a lateral abdominalX-ray.
The former can be used both to di-agnose renal injury and to diagnose a com-pound fracture of the lumbar vertebrae.
"5 ConclusionWe have presented an approach to information de-livery during patient-centered activities, in which ahealth care provider's (HCP) attention is on his orher patient and not on a computer screen.
As wellas potential applications to other areas of medicalcare, the idea of restricting the output of a decision-support system to clinically relevant information canbe generalized to other task-centered activities, suchas repair or construction, in which the person forwhom the system output is intended is focused onperforming a task rather than on the system.We recognize the need to validate the approach de-scribed here, and have proposed (with Sandra Car-berry, of the University of Delaware) such a study tothe National Library of Medicine.
In this study, wewill compare two versions of our approach againstgraphic display of the stable portion of TraumAID'smanagement plan on a monitor positioned in thetrauma bay.
In one version of our approach, cri-tiques of physician orders (or lack thereof) will beconveyed textually to the scribe nurse, who will con-vey it to the other members of the trauma team athis or her discretion.
In the other version, critiqueswill be conveyed irectly to the trauma bay throughsynthesized speech.130Hematuria Gunshot Wound Loss of Sensationin Abdomen in both legsI Rule Out I Rule Out Compound FractureRenal Injury of Lumbar VertebraGet CT-scan Get X-ray ofOf Abdomen Lateral AbdomenCT-scan ofAbdomena) TraumAID's plan with overloadingRule out Compound Fractureof Lumbar VertebraGet X-Ray ofLateral AbdomenX-Ray LateralAbdomenb) Inferred plan after ordering X-rayFigure 3: Inferring a plan with overloadingEven though this validation has not yet been done,we believe this paper has independent value in (1)pointing out additional constraints on language gen-eration raised by the desire to convey information tolisteners attending to something other than an com-puter terminal, and (2) pointing out some featuresof plan inference and evaluation raised by multiplegoal planning in a complex domain.ReferencesClarke, J.R., Rymon, R., Webber, B., Hayward, C.,Santora, T., Wagner, D. and Ruffin, A.
The Im-portance of Planning in the Provision of MedicalCare.
Medical Decision Making 13(4), October-December 1993, p. 383 (abstract).Clarke, J.R., Webber, B., Niv, M., Rymon, R., Gert-ner, A. and Kaye, J.
The Care of Injured Pa-tients: An architecture of Medical Knowledge.Der Chirurg (Special issue on surgical decision-making), to appear April 1994.Gertner, A.
Ongoing Critiquing During TraumaManagement.
Proc.
AAAI  Spring Symposium onArtificial Intelligence in Medicine: InterpretingClinical Data, Stanford CA, March 1994.Gertner, A.
Responding to Users' InformationalNeeds in Time-Critical Situations Proc.
4th Inter-national Conference on User Modeling, Hyannis,MA, August 1994.Grice, H.P.
Logic and Conversation.
In H.P.
Grice,Studies in the Way of Words.
Cambridge MA:Harvard University Press, 1975.
Reprinted in S.David (ed.)
Pragmatics: A reader.
Oxford: Ox-ford University Press, 1991, pp.
305-315,Kautz, H. A circumscriptive theory of plan recog-nition.
In Jerry Morgan Philip R. Cohen andMartha E. Pollack, editors, Intentions in Com-munication.
Bradford Books, 1990.Langlotz, C. P. and Shortliffe, E. H. Adapting a con-sultation system to critique user plans.
Interna-tional Journal of Man-Machine Studies, 19:479-496, 1983.Miller, P. L. Expert Critiquing Systems: Practice-Based Medical Consultation by Computer.
NewYork: Springer-Verlag, 1986.Pollack, M. Overloading Intentions for EfficientPractical Reasoning.
N6us XXV(4), 1991, pp.
513-536.Rymon, R. Diagnostic Reasoning and Planning inExploratory-Corrective Domains.
PhD Disserta-tion.
Dept.
Computer & Information Science, U.Pennsylvania, November 1993.
(Appears as Tech-nical Report MS-CIS-93-84).Rymon, R., Webber, B. L. and Clarke, J.R., Progressive Horizon Planning - PlanningExploratory-Corrective Behavior.
IEEE Transac-tions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics 23(6).Special issue on Planning, Scheduling and Con-trol, November 1993.Sperber, D. and Wilson, D. Relevance: communi-cation and cognition.
Harvard University Press,Cambridge, Mass., 1986.Webber, B., Rymon, R. and Clarke, J.R. FlexibleSupport for Trauma Management through GoM-directed Reasoning and Planning.
Artificial Intel-ligence in Medicine 4(2), April 1992, pp.
145-163.131
