An Interactive Rewriting Tool for Machine Acceptable SentencesHideki Hirakawa*, Kouichi Nomura**, Mariko Nakamura*** Toshiba Corporation, R&D Center ** Toshiba Corporation, Tokyo System Center1, Komukaitoshiba-cho, Saiwai-kn, 3-22, Kata-machi, Fuchuu,Kawasaki 210, Japan Tokyo 183, Japanhirakawa@islxde.toshiba.co.jp { nomura, marl }@docs.sc.fuchu.toshiba.co.jpAbstractThis paper proposes an interactive rewriting toolfor supporting people in creating machine acceptablesentences.
The experiment and evaluation of this toolconducted when applied to a pre-editing support toolin a Japanese-to-English machine translation(henceforth, MT) system are also described.1.
IntroductionSupporting people in creating machine acceptablesentences is one important issue of future NL~ appli-cations.
Agents in computers will be able to providepeople with a variety of services by grasping the con-tents of documents.
An intelligent mail server, forexample, can read mails and send appropriate repliessemi or fully automatically if the mails are machineacceptable.
This is a natural extension of the ideasexplored in the object lens(Malone, Grant, Lai, Raoand Rosenblitt, 1986).However, it is difficult for humans to write inmachine acceptable forms because of gaps betweenhumans and machines.
First, hnmans use semantics,context and common sense in interpreting a sentence,while limited resources are available to machines.
Sec-ond, unlike machines, humans cannot simulatesentence analysis proce~ in a machine to check all pos-sibilities.
As such, man-machine corporation would beone solution with the least burdens on humans.Prior to a general-purpose r writing tool, we havebeen developing a pre-editing support ool for an MTsystem(Hirakawa,Nogami and Amano,1991).
Sinceour central concern is to analyze human-computerinteraction for creating machine acceptable sentences,MT systems for bilingmd and monolingnal users areclosely related to our tool.
Considering that the dif-ficulty of interactive systems lies in "so manyinteractions for a single sentence,"(Hutehins andSomers, 1992) we need a framework which producesthe best result with least interactions.2.
Interactive Rewriting Tool2.1 Design PrinciplesThe problems of rewriting include difficulties inlearning its know-how and unpredictable ffects ofrewriting.
The following are our design principles:1) Interaction-based system: Since rewriting is adynamic process, the process should be interactive todeal with changes.2) Presentation of rewriting candidates: The systemshould present possible recommended revisions tousers so that they can select the best choice and guar-antee the correctness of the rewriting.3) Minimization of interactions: To minimize fre-quencies of interactions in rewri6ng, the systemshould fully utilize knowledge available to improvethe accuracy of the diagnoses.4) Optimization of interactions: Scales to measure thedegree of rewriting(scalability) should be introducedto optimize interactions to obtain the maximumeffects with minimum interactions.2.2 System ConfigurationThe system consists of two main parts: a sentencechecker and a user interface unitThe sentence checker is composed of a sentence ana-lyzer, an information extractor and a rewritingcandidate generator.
The information extractorextracts the information ecessary for rewriting, suchas morphological and syntactic information, from theanalysis results of an NIT system, to detect problem-atic phrases and generate recommended rewritingexamples along with guidance messages to help userswith rewriting.The user interface displays the original sentenceswhich require correction with their recommendedte lne~I I~ .TL ,  t z \ [~ .
g~-~Z'7-~X~F (~CTRL+\ ]  zyt.~3E\[Input Sentence \[ \[ which needs rewritin~~r~, :~,~ ~" sl-lg~ -\]~-~: .
Choices for2o~b=r.
rewriting/,-I'~1"~, I- : r~;,-~ctionsg~ e ~  ~o~  ~ Items to~,~t-c <r~, .
rewriting be detected~ ?
~ .
~ ~ Guidance tz~,.co~B~:~o)~ messagesFig.
1 User Interface Unit Screen207rewriting examples and guidance messages as in Fig.1.
When there are several problems in one sentence,they are presented tousers in order of importance.Knowledge for rewriting is accumulated as rulesfor the information extractor, which is actually a gen-eral-purpose information extracting tool-kit equippedwith overall linguistic analyzing modules and infor-mation extracting/diagnosing modules.3.
Knowledge for Rewriting Long SentencesOf those Japanese expressions that need rewritingbefore machine translation, long sentences whichshould be divided into shorter ones are the mostimportant, as shown in previous studies(Kim, Eharaand Aizawa, 1992).3.1 Criteria for Detecting Long SentencesIt is empirically known that simple factors, suchas the number of characters or words in a sentence, arenot sufficient o determine which sentences should berewritten.
Currently, we adopt both the number ofwords and the linguistic patterns to identify long sen-tences.
This combined algorithm provides theprecision ratio of 52% and the recall ratio of 96% forclosed data.
The two ratios improved by 9% and 6%respectively, compared with the case when the numberof words in a sentence is the only determining factor.3.2 Generation of Rewriting CandidatesThe rewriting rules also generate candidates forrewriting expressions.
There are four methods of sen-tence division:1) Simple division (60%): A sentence is divided intotwo at the division point inflecting the ending ofthe in'st sentence and inserting an appropriate con-nective at the beginning of the second sentence,where necessary.2) Supplementation of case Idlers (27%): A case,such as the subjective case, is supplemented aftersentence division.3) Supplementation f verbs (7%): Verbs are supple-mented after sentence division.4) Others (6%):Of the above, method 1) has been implemented andmethod 2) is under development using semantic treesprovided by the information extractor.4.
Experiment and EvaluationThe rewriting tool has been evaluated from twoaspects: the knowledge which forms the basis of ourpre-editing rules and the tool as a whole, includingthe interface.4.1 Evaluation of Rewriting RulesWe have carried out an experiment on the evalua-tion of our rewriting knowledge using a new testtext(211 sentences).
The experiment showed almostthe same result(62% for the precision ratio and 90%for the recall ratio) as is in Section 3.1.To evaluate the generation of rewriting candidatesin terms of rewriting positions and rewriting expres-sions, the precision ratio and the recall ratio of thesetwo have been calculated for the target text, focusingon the sentences for which the tool produced rewrit-ing candidates (i.e., type 1) in Section 3.2.The precision ratio and the recall ratio for identi-fying division points are 63% and 100% respectively;the ratios for the rewriting candidates are 10.5% and93% respectively.
The recall ratios for both divisionpoints and rewriting expressions exceed 90%, whichmeans that the probability of obtaining the correctpositions and candidates are sufficiently high.
The pre-cision ratio for substitution generation is low, but 5to 6 candidates per division point would not be muchof a burden on the user.4.2 Evaluation of the Operating CostA preliminary experiment was made on five sub-jects to evaluate an overall appraisal, including theinterface, the rate of reduction in operation time andimprovement in tim quality of rewriting.The rate of reduction in rewriting time for thefive subjects averages 23%.
The recall ratio went upfrom 83% to 96%, the precision ratio from 96% to99%.
For those subjects whose recall ratio scoredhigh when the tool was not used, the rate of reduc-tion in time also tends to be high.
For others whoserecall ratio is low when the tool was not used, therate of reduction in time does not change much, butthe recall ratio improved by far.
That is, users capa-ble of rewriting without outside help can furthershorten the total time using the tool.
Moreover,those with low rewriting skills can benefit from thetool to improve rewriting quality.5.
ConclusionWe have proposed an interactive rewriting toolfeaturing the rewriting candidate generation capabili-ties to support people in creating machine acceptablesentences.
This tool has been applied to MT pre-edit-ing in a Japanese-to-English MT system and showedpromising results in the experimental evaluations.ReferencesHirakawa, H.; Nogami, H.i and Amano, S.
(1991).
"EJ/JE Machine Translation System ASTRANSAC-Extensions toward Personalization."
Proc.
of MTSUMMIT III.Hntchins, W. J. and Somers, H. L. (1992).
An Intro-duction to Machine Translation.
ACADEMICPRESS, pp.
154-155, pp.
324-325.Kim; Y.
B.; F.hara, T.; and Aizawa, T.
(1992).
"Breaking Long Japanese Sentences Based on Morpho-logical Information.
"(in Japanese) Proc.
of IPSJ 44th,vol.
3.Malone, T. W.; Grant, K. R.; Lai, K.; Rao, R.; andRosenblitt, D. (1986).
"Semi-Structured Messages areSurprisingly Useful for Computer-Supported Coordi-nation."
Proc.
of Computer-Supported CooperativeWork.208
