MULTIFUNCTION THESAURUS FOR RUSSIAN WORDPROCESSINGIgor A. BolshakovInstitute of Russian LanguageRussian Academy of ScienceVolkhonka, 18/2, 121019, Moscow, RussiaE-mail irlras@irl.msk.suAbstractA new type of thesaurus for word process-ing is proposed.
It comprises 7 semanticand 8 syntagmatic types of links betweenRussian words and collocations.
The orig-inal version now includes ca.
76,000 ba-sic dictionary entries, 660,000 semantic and292,000 syntagmatic links, English inter-face, and communication with any text edi-tor.
Methods of delivery enriching are usedbased on generic and synonymous links.1 IntroductionThesauri for commercial text editors are reducednow to synonym dictionaries.
Meanwhile, the usersoften need to know, how might the given meaningbe expressed by other words, not obligatory strictlysynonymous or of different parts of speech, and whatwords are steadily combinable with the given onein texts.
So various semantic (i.e.
synonymous,antonymous, derivative, generic, meronymic) andsyntagmatic ( ombinatorial) links are of interest.Systematization f these links by A. ZholkovskyI.
Mel'chuk \[1, 2\] as lexical functions did not solveproblem of gathering specific LF values.
This provedto be of tremendous complexity and solved by theschool of Mel'chuk-Apresian with speed insufficientfor immediate word processing applications.
Butgrouping LF makes them simpler for a common userto comprehend and less laborious for a developer tocompile.To get a friendly reference facility on links bet-ween Russian words, we have developed a prototypethesaurus named CrossLexica.2 Directions of thesaurus  useIn non-Russian community, our thesaurus i for stu-dents of universities with Slavonic departments, pro-fessional translators and teachers of Russian.
A com-petence of such users in Russian may be various.So in the abroad version, hard-copy documentation,commands names, on-line help, error messages, andbuilt-in translation dictionary were supplied in En-glish.Modes of use are the same for all conditions andcomprise references out of or within context.
In thefirst mode, the user types in a keyword by himselfand gets, say, a set of its governing verbs.
In the sec-ond mode, a query is formed within a conventionaltext editor, with return of the available informationto the editor.
In perspective, there exist many otherways of use of thesaurus DB, e.g.
for filtering insyntactic parser.The user might get through thesaurus followinginformation: (1) synonyms; (2) antonym(s); (3) hy-peronym; (4) hyponyms; (5) holonym; (6) mero-nyms; (7) common attributes for a given key; (8)words typically attributed by a given key; (9) se-mantic derivatives, i.e.
the group of words convey-ing the same meaning through words of diverse partsof speech or through the same p.o.s., reflecting an-other participant of the situation; (10) verbs, (11)nouns, (12) adjectives, and (13) adverbs managingand steadily combinable with a given key; (14) man-aging model (case frame) for a given key, with allexamples available; (15) a complementary elementof a steadily coordinated pair (e.g.
prava i svobody'rights and liberties').
Consistently using this infor-mation, the user reaches valid and idiomatic texts.3 Compilation of linguistic DBThe linguistic kernel of thesaurus i a dictionary con-sisting of words and phraseological collocations.
Itis between them the semantic and syntagmatic linksare established.When choosing elements of the dictionary, nounlexemes as a whole seemed unacceptable, since manynouns have diverse sets of attributes and/or man-aging verbs for the two numbers.
So, as a rule,the numbers (if exist) were taken separately.
Simi-lary it is for two aspects of Russian verbs and verbswith reflexive particle -sja.
Participles and adverbialparticiples are considered independently from theirverbs, as exhibiting properties of adjectives and ad-verbs, correspondingly.200Homonyms, as usually, were numbered and sup-plied with short clear explanations.
We deal sim-ilarly with polysemantic words such tee (drink Vs.grocery).
The division took into account differencesbetween sets of related words.Compiling the dictionary, we took words coveringRussian texts not less than to 90 percent and widelyused words from sci-tech field.
When acquiring newword combinations, new constituents appeared.Methods of acquisition of word combinations weremuch more laborious:Adopt ion f rom pr inted material .
We disposedof only one dictionary of Russian word combin-ability with 2500 keyword entries, though.Introspect ion,  i.e.
purposeful recollection of allstable combinations including the given word.Analogy, i.e.
matching a given entry with key-words significantly intersecting by meaning.Systemity,  i.e.
engaging both noun numbers, bothverb aspects, verbs adjoining this noun both asan  object and a subject, etc.Automated  scanning of texts, i.e.
the use of aprogram, moving a "window" along the text,and counting frequencies of joint falling into itof two or more relevant words \[3\].
This methodis universal, even with a manual post-editing.Regretfully, we lack large corpora of Russiantexts.Calculat ion of LFs~ i.e.
intensive analysis, ifthere exist their explications for this key.Manual  scanning of texts turned to be the mostproductive.
Different sei-tech papers, books,and abstracts on radar, electronics, computerscience, automatic ontrol, business, and ap-plied linguistics were taken.
Different Russianperiodicals for 1988-1992 were also used.4 Generat ion  o f  on - l ine  DBThe source files of the linguistic DB contain format-ted texts, such as for managing verbs:zabota 'care'okruzhaet 'surrounds'projavljae~sja 'is shown'blagodarit' zal -u 'to thank for'brat' na sebya "u 'to take on oneself'We restricted marking of these texts to numbersof dictionary and preposition homonyms and toepisodic part-of-speech labels.At work, words/combinations should be automat-ically processed on entering to computer (normal-ization of inflectional forms) and on output (validformation of gender, number, case, etc.).
Thus, thedictionary entries hould be supplied with morpho-logical parameter(s).Usually, construction ofa morpho-dictionary con-sidered as a separate task to be solved beforehand,thus necessitating permanent updating and mor-phological classification of new acquisitions.
Wetook another way.
Several complex utilities werewritten for translation of the source files to anon-line form and automatic onstructing morpho-dictionary.
These comprise automatic morpho-classification ofwords based on their final letters andshort lists of peculiar lexemes, stems and prefixes,inserted irectly to texts of the utilities.Special codes were given to preposition-case com-binations.
All prepositions, including compositeones, were gathered and sorted.
A Russian case(nominative, genitive,...) corresponds to each ofthem, forming a pair (preposition string, requiredcase).
Usual cases are formally among them as pairs(empty string, required case).
The entries of theunited pair list were named generalized cases.
Theirtotal number eaches 250.
With a nonempty prepo-sition, encoding of a word combination was thusevident, otherwise several heuristics were applied.Separate verb-noun combinations reflect subject-predicate pairs.
For them, personal verb forms areused.5 De l ivery  fo rming  and  enr ichmentThe thesaurus is destined for 15 main functions,basically described above: 1) Synonyms, 2)Antonyms,  3) Genus, 4) Species, 5) Whole,  6)Parts,  7) SemGroup,  8) Att r ibut ing,  9) At-t r ibuted,  10) MngVerbs, 11) MngNouns,  12)CaseFrame, 13) Doublet,  14) MngAdjs,  15)MngAdvs.
In original version, the first twelve func-tions are implemented.Each query to the system is a pair (main function,relevant key).
A sequential use of delivery elementsfor next queries is a navigation within linguistic DB,that could lead arbitrarily far away from an initialkey.
The idea of the system implies, that none of itselement could be an isolated node of the navigationnetwork.To perform specific functions, not only data ofseparate subsystems can be independently used (fordirect delivery), but numerous links between subsys-tems (for enrichment of delivery), for example:?
If DB doesn't contain managing verbs, man-aging nouns, or attributes for the given noun,then sequentially, till finding nonempty con-tents, there are examined: other number of thesame noun; its synonymous dominant; he nea-rest described hyperonym.
E.g.
there is theword combination pick up berries in DB, but notpick up gooseberries.
So, using the hyperonymiclink gooseberries ~ berries, needed combina-tions are delivered.201?
As attributes for a given word, additionally todirectly kept attributes, all passive participlesare output, recorded in DB as predicates at thegiven noun subject.
So for abzats 'paragraph',besides bol'shoj ' large',...words like vydelennyj'chosen',... will be output.?
If there is no data for this aspect for a givenverb in the DB, then those of the same verb inanother aspect are taken.6 So f tware  imp lementat ionAs an operating environment, MS Windows ver.
3.1with Russifier (font former) was taken.
The IBM-compatible computer must have processor 386 orhigher, main memory 2 MB or more and 6.5 MBof free disk space.In the upper part of a working window, thereis a menu of auxiliary functions.
These are Edi t(link with editors), WordForms (morphological pa-radigm of the key), H is to ry  of current session, Dic-t ionary  (its fragment beginning by word closest tothe input buffer contents), and Help.
Below, thebuttons with main functions are posed.
Their in-scriptions have three variants of contrast: (1) directdelivery is available for this function; (2) indirectdelivery is possible; (3) delivery is empty.Lower, the selected function and the input editingbuffer are presented.
An English translation of ahighlighted word and a box for explanations of ahomonymous key are also here.
The input may bedirectly typed, as well as be taken from the Dic-t ionary  fragment, H is to ry  list, a previous delivery,or text Editor  message.The delivery, widely varying in size, is given atthe lower part.
For CaseFrame,  it is split to zonescorresponding to relevant generalized cases and sup-plied with questions, to which their entries response.If an input string (as such or after automatic nor-malization) proved to be a dictionary entry, it is ac-cepted as a component of a query.
But if it is notreducible to a single entry, it is subject to simpleparsing, with extaction of both potential parts andmaybe a preposition.
If both parts are in the dic-tionary and the link between them is also known, aquery is formed automatically.Though the thesaurus was developed for Russian,all its functions, run-time routines and the interfaceequally suit to other European languages.
Only util-ities for encoding of DB heavily depend on a s )ecificlanguage.derivative 44,200 5261tO0synonymous 23,500 119,600meronymous 3,200 6,400hyponymous 2,200 4,400antonymous 1,700 3,400Total: 73,800 659,900The second column counts all subsystems ele-ments only once, the third one takes stock of allreverse and mutual inks.The current numbers of word combinations are:managing verbs 149,800managing nouns 56,100attributes 85,600coordinat.pairs 1,000Total: 292,500The coverage of open texts (in percents to a totaloccurrence number) was roughly estimated for verb-noun combinations (without enrichment feature).
Itis given below for several development s eps, includ-ing the current (3rd) one and prognosis (4th) basedon Zipf distribution.St.
Num.
Mean Text Num.ofof ent.
ent.size cov.,7, combs1 2,670 9.8 40 26,5002 3,870 17.1 50 66,1003 6,270 23.9 55 149,800i 4 7,000 30.0 60 210,000Sourcevol, K B419105124084OO0Laboriousness of acquisition of new DB elementsis monstrous.
But for users with not too deep knowl-edge in Russian, all necessary means for expressionof the broadest specter of meaning through wordcombinations are already at hand.Acknowledgements .
I would like to thank Dr.P.
Cassidy, USA, for sponsoring software develop-ment and primary system testing.8 References\[1\] Zholkovsky, A.K., I.A.
Mel'chuk.
On seman-tic synthesis.
Problems of Cybernetics (in Russian).Moscow, Nauka Publ.- 1967.- v. 19.- pp.
117-238.\[2\] Mel'chuk, I.A.
Semantic bases of linguistic de-scription (Meaning-Text theory).
The Twelfth LA-CUS Forum, 1985.- Lake Bluff, Ill.: LACUS.- 1986.-p. 41-87.\[3\] Calzolari, N., R. Bindi.
Acquisition of lexicalinformation from a large textual Italian corpus.
Pa-pers of 13th Int.
Conf.
Comp.
Ling.- Helsinki.-1990.- v.3.- pp.
54-59.7 Quant i ta t ive  featuresThe total size of the source text files of DB (with-out grammar tables) exceeds now 6.8 MB, while thevolume of the dictionary is approximately 76,000.Semantic links are sized as follows:202
