I n tegrat ion  o f  example -based  t rans fer  and  ru le -based  generat ionSusumu AKAMINE, Osamu FURUSE and Hitoshi IIDAATR Interpreting Telecommunications Research Laboratories2-2 Hikaridai, Seika-cho, Soraku-gun, Kyoto 619-02, Japan{ akamine,furuse,iida} @itl.atr.co.j p1 IntroductionWhen we speak a foreign language, we use notonly grammatical rules but also memorized expres-sions.
Namely, translations are sometimes producedby mimicking translation examples.
Example-BasedMachine Translation(EBMT) adopts this strategy asfollows: 1) Retrieves the translation example whoseSource Expression (SE) is the same as or most sim-ilar to the input sentence, 2) Translates the inputsentence using the Target Expression (TE) of theretrieved translation example.Since it is impossible to memorize all possible sen-tence patterns, the "chunking + best-matching +recombination" method is practical from the pointof view of coverage.
It provides translation examplesat various linguistic levels, and decomposes an inputsentence into chunks.
For each chunk, the trans-lation example is retrieved by best-matching.
Theoutput sentence is obtained by recombining the TEparts of the retrieved translation examples.
How-ever, this method suffers from translation qualitylapses at the boundaries of the recombined chunks.These lapses are caused by serious gaps between lan-guages, such as between English and Japanese, thatdiffer widely in their syntactic features.This paper proposes a method to solve the prob-lem of the structural gap by introducing a newgeneration module to the model of (Furuse, 92),that is able to handle the entire translation pro-cess within the example-based framework.
This inte-grated method has been implemented in a prototypeEnglish-to-Japanese translation system.Figure 1 shows the proposed integrated methodbetween example-based transfer and rule-based gen-eration.
The transfer module decomposes an inputsentence using the SE(English) part of translationexamples, and converts each piece of the input sen-tence into the equivalent piece in the TE(Japanese)using translation examples.The rule-based generation part of the integratedmethod consists of a composition module and an ad-justment module.
The composition module com-poses a structure from fragmentary examples byusing Japanese grammatical constraint, and checkswhether the structure is grammatically appropriateor not.
The adjustment module refines the sentenceoutput of the composition module so that the finaloutput is as natural as colloquial Japanese.196I-q Transfer ~-~ Composition -,- Ad jus tment~example-based , rule-based generationFigure 1: Integration of Transfer and Generation2 Example-based transferThe transfer module outputs the TE structure froman input sentences by using translation examples.In the proposed translation method, translation ex-amples are classified based on the string pattern oftheir SE and are stored as empirical transfer knowl-edge, which describes the correspondence b tweenan SE and its TEs.
The following is an example ofthe transfer knowledge about "X to Y" at the verb-phrase level.X to Y --~ Y' e X' ((go, Kyoto)...)Y' ni X' ((pay, account)...)Y' wo X' ((refer, announcement)...)The first possible TE is "Y' e X",  with the exampleset ((go, Kyoto)...).
Within this pattern, X' is theTE of X, which expresses a variable correspondingto some linguistic onstituent.
(go, Kyoto) are sam-ple bindings for "X to Y", where X ="go", and Y: "Kyoto".Patterns in transfer knowledge are classified intodifferent levels according to the scale of their lin-guistic structure in order to restrict the explosionof structural ambiguity, and an input sentence is de-composed into chunks by applying SE parts of trans-fer knowledge in a top-down fashion.Suppose that an input sentence is "Please come toour company."
SE parts of transfer knowledge areapplied in the order, "please X" (simple sentence),"X to Y"(verb phrase), "our X" (compound noun),"come", "company" (surface word), yielding the fol-lowing SE structure:(Please ((come) to (our (company))))For each chunk of the SE structure, the most ap-propriate TE is selected according to the calculateddistance between the input words and the examplewords.
The distance calculation method of (Sumita,91) is adopted here.
The distance between words isdefined as the closeness of semantic attributes in athesaurus.The SE structure chunks of "Please come to ourcompany" are transferred to "X' tekudasai", "Y'e X'", "watashi-tachi no X'", "kuru\[come\] 1, and"kaisha\[company\]".
By combining these TE chunks,the following TE structure is obtained, which willbe the input of the composition module of the rule-based generation model:(((watashi-tachi no (kaisha)) e (kuru)) tekudasai)In the above structure, the honorific word"irassharu\[come\]" is more adequate than the neu-tral word "kuru" from the point of view of polite-ness.
The replacement of "kuru" with "irassharu"will be done in the adjustment module of the rule-based generation model.3 Rule-based generation3.1 Composi t ionThe composition module checks whether a trans-ferred sentence is grammatically appropriate or not,and corrects grammatical errors produced by thestructural gap.
The composing method is almostthe same as the syntactic analysis method.
How-ever, the process is much simpler, because the inputstring has the correct Japanese structure and thecorresponding English expressions.The procedure is as follows: 1) Divide the sen-tence into clauses, using not only Japanese gram-matical features but also the TE structure and itscorresponding English expressions.
2) Analyze eachclause using the Japanese syntax rule.
3) Check onJapanese grammatical constraints.
If the processfinds violations, it corrects them by using Japaneselinguistic knowledge.Japanese sentences have a peculiar grammaticalconstraint.
Some expressions cannot appear in asubordinate clause.
For example, the postpositionalparticle "wa(topic marker)" cannot appear in a con-ditional clause.
Table 1 gives examples of limita-tions on expressions.
In Table 1, "masu" expressesan auxiliary verb, which indicates the level of polite-ness, and "darou" expresses an auxiliary verb, whichindicates the speaker's supposition.The checking and correcting method is explainedhere, using the conditional clause "((anata wa ry-ohkin wo shiharau masu) baai) \[you TOPIC fee OB-JECT pay POLITE CONDITION\]."
First, the pro-cess checks on limitations for conditional clausesby referring to Table 1, so it understands thatneither "wa" nor "masu" can appear in a condi-tional clause(X baai).
Second, the process ana-lyzes the clause, so it understands that the case of"anata\[you\]" is ga", and "masu" can be deleted.Finally, the process gets the right conditional clause"((anata ga ryohkin wo shiharau) baai)"3.2 Ad jus tmentA sentence that is only grammatically appropriate,is not as natural as a colloquial sentence.
The ad-justment module refines the sentence by changing,1 \[wl ... w,\] is the list of corresponding English words.Uppercase shows the meaning of a function word.Table h limitations on Japanese clausesexample clause topic polite supposition"wa" "masu" "darou"X shite\[X, and\] Good Good GoodX to(omou)\[that X\] Good N.G.
GoodX node\[because X\] Good Good N.G.X baai\[if X\] N.G.
N.G.
N.G.Table 2: honorific expression of verbagent recipient example for okuru\[send\]- -  hearer o-okuri-suruhearer speaker okut-tekudasaruhearer - -  o-okurini-naruadding, or deleting words.
This module handles hon-orific expressions and redundant personal pronouns,which are important for generating natural Japanesesentences.Personal pronouns are usually redundant inJapanese conversations, because honorific expres-sions and modality expressions limit the agent of theaction.
The procedure is as follow: 1) Change theverb into the appropriate form based on the agentor the recipient, 2) Delete the redundant personalpronouns based on the verb form, or the modal, 3)Generate a final output by adjusting the morpholog-ical feature.This method is explained here, using the sen-tence "((anata wa watashi ni youshi wo okuru masu)ka) \[you TOPIC I OBJECT form OBJECT sendPOLITE INTERROGATIVE\]."
First, the processchanges the verb "okuru" into "okut-tekudasaru"by referring to Table 2.
Second, it deletes the re-dundant pronouns "anata wa" and "watashi ni" .Finally, it generates the sentence "youshi wo okut-tekudasai masu ka \[form OBJECT send-RESPECTPOLITE INTERROGATIVE\].
"4 EvaluationThe prototype system was evaluated by using modelconversations between an applicant and a secretaryabout conference registration.
The model conversa-tions consist of 607 sentences, and cover basic ex-pressions.
The system provided an average transla-tion time of 2 seconds for sentences with an averagelength of 10 words, and produced atranslation resultfor all of the sentences.
480 of the results were asnatural as colloquial sentences and giving a successrate of 79%.ReferencesFuruse, O. and Iida, H. 1992.
Cooperation betweenTransfer and Analysis in example-based frame-work.
In Proc.
of Coling '92.Sumita, E. and Iida, H. 1991.
Experiments andProspects of Example-based Machine Translation.In Proc.
of the 29th Annual Meeting of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics.197
