EAGLE:An Extensible Architecture for General LinguisticEngineeringBreck Baldwin, Christine Doran, Jeffrey C. Reynar, Michael Niv, B. SrinivasUniversity of PennsylvaniaDepartment of Computer and Information Science andThe Institute for Research in Cognitive Scienceemail: {breck,cdoran,jcreynar,niv,srini}@hnc.cis.upenn.eduOver the course of two summer projects, we developed a general purpose natural anguage systemwhich advances the state-of-the-art in several areas.
The system contains demonstratedadvancements in part-of-speech tagging, end-of-sentence d tection, and coreference resolution.
Inaddition, we believe that we have strong maximal noun phrase detection, and subject-verb-objectrecognition and a pattern matching language well suited to a range of tasks.
Other features of thesystem include modularity and interchangeability of components, rapid component integration and adebugging environment.The demo will feature aspects of the system currently being used to develop a coreferenceresolution engine in preparation for MUC-7, in addition to an information extraction task done overthe summer of 1996.
Two aspects of the system will be featured prominently, a diagnostic tool forevaluating system output using SRA's discourse tagging tool (DTT) and the MOP pattern matchinglanguage.The diagnostic tool takes a coreference annotated text to be evaluated, an answer key assumed tobe correct, and produces various diagnostics which evaluate system performance.
Areas ofevaluation include:?
Classification of coreference links into correct, sins of commission(precision errors), sins ofomission (recall errors)?
Noun phrase detection errors?
Filters on what sorts of links to evaluate?
Support of system trace functions in the DTT?
Fast implementation f MUC-6 scoring algorithmIn addition, we present MOP (Mother of Perl), a pattern description language developed for use inan information extraction task and currently being used to do coreference.
Patterns are described inMOP by left-to-right enumeration of components, with each component specifing at various levels ofdescriptive granularity.
The patterns are compiled into Perl scripts, which perform back-trackingsearch on the input text.
MOP also allows for rapid integration of a variety of analytical modules,such as part-of-speech taggers and parsers.23
