Syntactic Structures of Sentences from Large CorporaEmmanue l  G iguet  and Jacques  VergneGREYC - -  CNRS UPRESA 6072 - -  Universit~ de Caen14032 Caen cedex - -  France{Emmanuel.Giguet, Jacques.Vergne}@info.unicaen.fr1 The  Demonst ra t ionThe demonstration will consist in displaying thesyntactic structure of sentences from novels, scien-tific texts, newspapers, ...
The syntactic structuresare computed by our syntactic parser and the out-put shows in a human-friendly graphic interface (1)word features (as computed by POS tagger) (2) non-recursive phrases (as computed by shallow parser)and (3) their relations (the functional structure).
Itwill be a closed demo.
The outputs will be split intosets in order to focus on the resolution of differentkinds of problems (i.e.
coordination, long distancesubject-verb relation, preposition/determiner r so-lution).
A large scale corpus will be available toprove that the results are not hand-made and opendemos will be possible during informal demo ses-sions.2 Demo Sess ionsSchedule of the intended emo sessions:Tuesday April 1 12.30-13.3016.30-17.30Wednesday April 2 10.00-11.0015.30-17.00Thursday April 3 10.30-12.0015.00-16.0016.30-17.00Other informal sessions can be scheduled inorder to allow people to parse their own sentencesor texts.3 The  Graph ic  OutputOur viewer, developped with Java, allows to displayin a graphical way (see Fig.
1) the dependency treebetween on-recursive phrases and the tags of words.
Figure 1: "A GRAPHIC OUTPUTFigure 2: THE CONTROL PANEL4 The  Cont ro l  Pane lThe control panel (see Fig.
2) still in progress al-lows the choice of the corpus, the sentence to bedisplayed.
Filters can be applied in order to show orto hide specified dependency and coordination re-lations.
The tags of the words can also be shownor hidden.
This principle allows to concentrateon word-level or on dependency-level and allows tocheck precisely the behavior of our parser on spe-cific relation types.
A trace mode enables the stepby step display of the construction of the analysis.In a near future, a graphic comparison betweentwo outputs will be available to control the modifi-cation of the rule base and to point out easily thedifferences.
This comparison between two outputscan also be used to compare an output and an ex-pected output.5 Web S i te  Open ingAfter this conference, the same demonstration willbe available on Internet at the following URL.http://www.info.unicaen.fr/~iguetThis website will required a browser runningJava and is platform independent (It has beentested with Netscape on Linux, Solaris2.5, MacOS,Windows NT and Windows 95).26 Get t ing  Annotated  CorporaPeople who are interested in getting annotated cor-pora are invited to contact he authors.7 ReferencesNo references are available yet.
