Insights into the Dialogue Processing of VERBMOBILJ an  Alexandersson Norbert  l:{,eithinger E l isabeth MaierDFKI GmbHStuhlsatzenhausweg 3D-66123 Saarbriicken, Germany{alexanders s on, re i th inger  ,maier}@dfki.
un-sb, deAbst rac tWe present he dialogue module of thespeech-to-speech translation system VERB-MOBIL.
We follow the approach that thesolution to dialogue processing in a medi-ating scenario can not depend on a singleconstrained processing tool, but on a com-bination of several simple, efficient, and ro-bust components.
We show how our solu-tion to dialogue processing works when ap-plied to real data, and give some exampleswhere our module contributes to the cor-rect translation from German to English.1 In t roduct ionThe imPlemented research prototype of the speech-to-speech translation system VEaBMOBIL (Wahlster,1993; Bub and Schwinn, 1996) consists of more than40 modules for both speech and linguistic processing.The central storage for dialogue information withinthe overall system is the dialogue module that ex-changes data with 15 of the other modules.Basic notions within VERBMOBIL are tu~8 andut terances.
A turn is defined as one contribution ofa dialogue participant.
Each turn divides into utter-ances that sometimes resemble clauses as defined ina traditional grammar.
However, since we deal ex-clusively with spoken, unconstrained contributions,utterances are sometimes just pieces of linguistic ma-terial.For the dialogue module, the most important di-alogue related information extracted for each utter-ance is the so called dialogue act (Jekat et al, 1995).Some dialogue acts describe solely the illocutionaryforce, while other more domain specific ones describeadditionally aspects of the propositional content ofan utterance.Prior to the selection of the dialogue acts, we ana-lyzed dialogues from VERBMOBIL'S corpus of spokenand transliterated scheduling dialogues.
More than500 of them have been annotated with dialogue re-lated information and serve as the empirical founda-tion of our work.Throughout this paper we will refer to the exam-ple dialogue partly shown in figure 1.
The transla-tions are as the deep processing line of VERBMOBILprovides them.
We also annotated the utteranceswith the dialogue acts as determined by the semanticevaluation module. '
' / / '  ' shows where utteranceboundaries were determined.We start with a brief introduction to dialogue pro-cessing in the VERBMOBIL setting.
Section 3 intro-duces the basic data structures followed by two sec-tions describing some of the tasks which are carriedout within the dialogue module.
Before the con-cluding remarks in section 8, we discuss aspects ofrobustness and compare our approach to other sys-tems.2 In t roduct ion  to  D ia logueProcess ing  in  VERBMOBILIn contrast to many other NL-systems, the VEaB-MOBIL system is mediating a dialogue between twopersons.
No restrictions are put on the locutors, ex-cept for the limitation to stick to the approx.
2500words VERBMOBIL recognizes.
Therefore, VERBMO-BIL and especially its dialogue component has to fol-low the dialogue in any direction.
In addition, thedialogue module is faced with incomplete and incor-rect input, and sometimes even gaps.When designing a component for such a scenario,we have chosen ot to use one big constrained pro-cessing tool.
Instead, we have selected a combina-tion of several simple and efficient approaches, whichtogether form a robust and efficient processing plat-form.As an effect of the mediating scenario, our mod-ule cannot serve as a "dialogue controller" like inman-machine dialogues.
The only exception iswhen33AOI: Tag / /  Herr Scheytt .
(GREET, INTRODUCE.NAME)(Hello, Mr Scheytt)B02: Guten Tag / /  Frau Klein / /  Wir mfissennoch e inen Terrain ausmachen / /  ff ir d ieNit a~be iterbesprechung.
(GREET, INTRODUCE--NAME, INIT..DATE,SUGGEST.SUPPORT-DATE)(Hello, Mrs. Klein, we should arrange anappointment, for the team meeting)A03: Ja , / /  ich eiird?
Ihnen vorschlagen imJ anuar , / /  zwischen dam ff infzehnten undneunzehnten.
(UPTAKE, SUGGEST.SUPPORT-DATE,REQUEST_COMMENT.DATE)( Well, I would suggest in January, between thefifteenth and the nineteenth)B04: Oh / /  das i s t  ganz echlecht.
/ /zwischen dem e l f ten  und achtzehnten Janua~b in  ich in  Hamburg.
(UPTAKE, REJECT.DATE, SUGGEST.SUPPORT-DATE)(Oh, that is really inconvenient, I'm in Hamburgbetween the eighteenth of January and the eleventh, )* e eA09: Doch i ch  babe Zeit  yon sechsten Februarbis neunten Februar(SUGGEST-SUPPORT-DATE)(I have time afterall from the 6th of February to the9th of February)BIO: Sebz Eut / /  das pa~t bei mir auch / /Dann machen w i t ' s  g le ich aus / /  f i irDonnerstag // den achten // Nie w~Lre es dennum acht Ubx dreii3ig / /(FEEDBACK-ACKNOWLEDGEMENT, ACCEPT-DATE,INIT.DATE, SUGGEST.SUPPORT-DATE,SUGGEST-SUPPORT-DATE, SUGGEST_SUPPORT_DATE)( Very good, that too suits me, we will arrange for it,for thursday, the eighth, how about hal/past eighth)Al1: Am achten // ginge es bei mir leidernur bis zehn Uhr // Bei mir geht es bessernachmitt age .
(SUGGEST-SUPPORT-DATE, SUGGEST-SUPPORT-DATE,ACCEPT-DATE)(on the eighth, Is it only unfortunately possible forme until 10 o'clock, It suits me better in theafte.~oo.
)B12: gut / /  um wievie l  Uhr so l len  wir unsdann treffen ?
(FEEDBACK-ACKNOWLEDGEMENT,SUGGEST-SUPPORT-DATE)(good, when should we meet)AI3: ich w"urde "ahm vierzehn Uhrvorschlagen // geht es bei Ihnen.
(SUGGEST-SUPPORT-DATE,REQU EST_COMMENT_DATE )( I would suggest 2 o'clock, is that possible for you?
)B14: sehr gut / /  das pa"st bei  mir aach / /das k"onnen wit festhalten(ACCEPT_DATE ,ACCEPT_DATE ,ACCEPT-DATE )(very good, that suits me too, we can make a note ofthat)Figure 1: An example dialogueclarification dialogues are necessary between VERB-MOBIL and a user.Due to its role as information server in the overallVERBMOBIL  system, we started early in the projectto collect requirements from other components inthe system.
The result can be divided into threesubtasks:?
we.allow for other components to store and re-trieve context information.. we draw inferences on the basis of our input.?
we predict what is going to happen next.Moreover, within VERBMOBIL there are differentprocessing tracks: parallel to the deep, linguisticbased processing, different shallow processing mod-ules als0 enter information into, and retrieve it from,the dialogue module.
The data from these paralleltracks must be consistently stored and made acces-sible in a uniform manner.Figure 2 shows a screen dump of the graphicaluser interface of our component while processing theexample dialogue.
In the upper left corner we see thestructures of the dialogue sequence memory, wherethe middle right row represents turns, and the leftand right rows represent utterances as segmentedby different analysis components.
The upper rightpart shows the intentional structure built by the planrecognizer.
Our module contains two instances of afinite state automaton.
The one in the lower leftcorner is used for performing clarification dialogues,and the other for visualization purposes (see section7).
The thematic structure representing temporalexpressions i displayed in the lower right corner.3 Maintaining ContextAs basis for storing context information we devel-oped the dialogue sequence memory.
It is a genericstructure which mirrors the sequential order of turnsand utterances.
A wide range of operation has beendefined on this structure.
For each turn, we storee.g.
the speaker identification, the language of thecontribution, the processing track finally selectedfor translation, and the number of translated utter-34Figure 2: Overview of the dialogue moduleFigure 3: A part of the sequence memory35ances.
For the utterances we store e.g.
the dialogueact, dialogue phase, and predictions.
These data arepartly provided by other modules of VERBMOBIL orcomputed within the dialogue module itself (see be-low).Figure 3 shows the dialogue sequence memory af-ter the processing of turn B02.
For the deep anal-ysis side (to the right), the turn is segmented intofour utterances: Guten Tag/ /~u K le in / /  Witm~ssen och einen Terrain ausmachen / / f l i t  dieMitarbeiterbesprechung, for which the semantic eval-uation component has assigned the dialogue actsGREET, INTRODUCE-NAME, INIT_DATE, and SUG-GEST_SUPPORT_DATE respectively.
To the left wesee the results of one of the shallow analysis com-ponents.
It splits up the input into two utterancesGuten Tag F~au K le in / /  Wit m~ssen ... die Mi-tarbeiterbesprechung and assigns the dialogue actsGREET and INIT_DATE.The need for and use of this structure is high-lighted by the following example.
In the domain ofappointment scheduling the German phrase Geht esbei Ihnen?
is ambiguous: bei lhnen can either re-fer to a location, in which case the translation isWould it be okay at your place?
or, to a certaintime.
In the latter case the correct ranslation is Isthat possible for your.
A simple way of disambiguat-ing this is to look at the preceding dialogue act(s).In our example dialogue, turn A13, the utteranceich wiirde ahm vierzehn Uhr vorschlagen (I wouldhmm fourteen o'clock suggest) contains the proposalof a time, which is characterized bythe dialogue actSUGGEST_SUPPORT-DATE.
With this dialogue act inthe immediately preceding context he ambiguity isresolved as referring to a time and the correct rans-lation is determined.In our domain, in addition to the dialogue act themost important propositional information are thedates as proposed, rejected, and finally accepted bythe users of VERBMOBIL.
While it is the task of thesemantic evaluation module to extract time informa-tion from the actual utterances, the dialogue moduleintegrates those information in its thematic mem-ory.
This includes resolving relative time expres-sions, e.g.
two weeks ago, into precise time descrip-tions, like "23rd week of 1996".
The informationabout he dates is split in a specialization hierarchy.Each date to be negotiated serves as a root, whilethe nodes represent the information about years,months, weeks, days, days of week, period of dayand finally time.
Each node contains also informa-tion about the attitude of the dialogue participantsconcerning this certain item: proposed, rejected, oraccepted by one of the participants.Figure 4 shows parts of the thematic structureafter the processing of turn B10.
The black boxesstand for the date currently under consideration.Thursday, 8., is the current date agreed upon.
Wealso see the previously proposed interval from 6.-9.of the same month in the box above (FROM_T0 (6,9)).4 In ferencesBesides the mere storage of dialogue related data,there are also inference mechanisms integrating thedata in representations of different aspects of thedialogue.
These data are again stored in the contextmemories shown above and are accessed by the otherVERBMOBIL modules.Plan Based InferencesInspecting our corpus, we can distinguish threephases in most of the dialogues.
In the first, theopening phase, the locutors greet each other and thetopic of the dialogue is introduced.
The dialoguethen proceeds into the negotiation phase, where theactual negotiation takes place.
It concludes in theclosing phase where the negotiated topic is confirmedand the locutors ay goodbye.
This phase informa-tion contributes to the correct ransfer of an utter-ance.
For example, the German utterance GutenTag is translated to "Hello" in the greeting phase,and to "Good day" in the closing phase.The task of determining the phase of the dialoguehas been given to the plan recognizer (Alexander-sson, 1995).
It builds a tree like structure whichwe call the intentional structure.
The current ver-sion makes use of plan operators both hand codedand automatically derived from the VERBMOBIL cor-pus.
The method used is transferred from the field ofgrammar extraction (Stolcke, 1994).
To contributeto the robustness of the system, the processing ofthe recognizer is divided into several processing lev-els like the "turn level" and the "domain dependentlevel".
The concepts of turn levels and the automaticacquisition of operators are described in (Alexander-sson, 1996).In figure 5 we see the structure after processingturns B02 and A03.
The leaves of the tree are thedialogue acts.
The root node of the left subtree forB02 is a GREE(T)-INIT-... operator which belongsto the greeting phase, while the partly visible one tothe right belongs to the negotiation phase.In the example used in this paper we are process-ing a "well formed" dialogue, so the turn structurecan be linked into a structure spanning over thewhole dialogue.
We also see in figure 3 how thephase information has been written into the boxes36Figure 4: Day/Day-of-Week detail of the thematic structurerepresenting the utterances ofturn B02 as segmentedby the deep analysis.Themat ic  InferencesIn scheduling dialogues, referring expressions likethe German word ndchste occur frequently.
Depend-ing on the thematic structure it can be translated asnext if the date referred to is immediately after thespeaking time, or .following in the other cases.
Thethematic structure ismainly used to resolve this typeof anaphoric expressions if requested by the semanticevaluation or the transfer module.
The informationabout the relation between the date under consid-eration and the speaking time can be immediatelycomputed from the thematic structure.The thematic structure is also used to checkwhether the time expressions are correctly recog-nized.
If some implausible dates are recognized, e.g.April, 31, a clarification can be invoked.
The sys-tem proposes the speaker a more plausible date, andwaits for an acceptance or rejection of the proposal.In the first case, the correct date will be translated,in the latter, the user is asked to repeat he wholeturn.Using the current state of the thematic structureand the dialogue act in combination with the timeinformation of an utterance, multiple readings canbe inferred (Maier, 1996).
For example, if both lo-cutors propose different dates, an implicit rejectionof the former date can be assumed.5 P red ic t ionsA different type of inference is used to generate pre-dictions about what comes next.
While the plan-based component uses declarative knowledge, albeitacquired automatically, dialogue act predictions arebased solely on the annotated VERBMOBIL corpus.The computation uses the conditional frequencies ofdialogue act sequences to compute probabilities ofthe most likely follow-up dialogue acts (Reithinger etal., 1996), a method adapted from language model-ing (Jelinek, 1990).
As described above, the dialoguesequence memory serves as the central repository forthis information.The sequence memory in figure 3 shows in addi-37Figure 5: Intentional structure for two turnstion to the actual recognized ialogue act also thepredictions for the following utterance.
In (Rei-thinger et al, 1996) it is demonstrated that ex-ploiting the speaker direction significantly enhancesthe prediction reliability.
Therefore, predictions arecomputed for both speakers.
The numbers after thepredicted ialogue acts show the prediction proba-bilities times 1000.As can be seen in the figure, the actually recog-nized dialogue acts are, for this turn, among the twomost probable predicted acts.
Overall, approx.
74%of all recognized ialogue acts are within the firstthree predicted ones.Major consumers of the predictions are the seman-tic evaluation module, and the shallow translationmodule.
The former module that uses mainly knowl-edge based methods to determine the dialogue act ofan utterance exploits the predictions to narrow downthe number of possible acts to consider.
The shallowtranslation module integrates the predictions withina Bayesian classifier to compute dialogue acts di-rectly from the word string.6 RobustnessFor the dialogue module there are two major pointsof insecurity during operation.
On the one hand,the user's dialogue behaviour cannot be controlled.On the other hand, the segmentation as computedby the syntactic-semantic construction module, andthe dialogue acts as computed by the semantic evalu-ation module, are very often not the ones a linguisticanalysis on the paper will produce.
Our example di-alogue is a very good example for the latter problem.Since no module in VERBMOBIL must ever crash,we had to apply various methods to get a high degreeof robustness.
The most knowledge intensive moduleis the plan recognizer.
The robustness of this sub-component is ensured by dividing the construction ofthe intentional structure into several processing lev-els.
Additionally, at the turn level the operators arelearned from the annotated corpus.
If the construc-tion of parts of the structure fails, some functionalityhas been developed to recover.
An  important ingre-dience of the processing is the notion of repa i r  - ifthe plan construction is faced with something unex-pected, it uses a set of specialized repair operators torecover.
If parts of the structure could not be built,we can estimate on the basis of predictions what thegap consisted of.The statistical knowledge base for the predictionalgorithm is trained on the VZRBMOmL corpus thatin its major parts contains well-behaved dialogues.Although prediction quality gets worse if a sequenceof dialogue acts has never been seen, the interpola-38tion approach to compute the predictions till deliv-ers useful data.As mentioned above, to contribute to the correct-ness of the overall system we perform different kindsof clarification dialogues with the user.
In addi-tion to the inconsistent dates, we also e.g.
recognizesimilar words in the input that will be most likelyexchanged by the speech recognizer.
Examples arethe German words for thirteenth (dreizehnter) andthirtieth (dreifligster).
Within a uniform computer-human interaction, we resolve these problems.7 Related WorkIn the speech-to-speech translation system JANUS(Lavie et al, 1996), two different approaches, a planbased and an automaton based, to model dialogueshave been implemented.
Currently, only one is usedat a time.
For VERBMOBIL, (Alexandersson and Re-ithinger, 1995) showed that the descriptive powerof the plan recognizer and the predictive power ofthe statistical component makes the automaton ob-solete.The automatic acquisition of a dialogue modelfrom a corpus is reported in (Kita et al, 1996).They extract a probabilistic automaton using an an-notated corpus of up to 60 dialogues.
The transitionscorrespond to dialogue acts.
This method capturesonly local discourse structures, whereas the planbased approach of VERBMOBIL also allows for thedescription of global structures.
Comparable struc-tures are also defined in the dialogue processing ofTaAINS (Traum and Allen, 1992).
However, theyare defined manually and have not been tested onlarger data sets.8 Conclusion and Future WorkDialogue processing in a speech-to-speech transla-tion system like VERBMOBIL requires innovative androbust methods.
In this paper we presented differ-ent aspects of the dialogue module while processingone example dialog.
The combination of knowledgebased and statistical methods resulted in a reliablesystem.
Using the VERBMOBIL corpus as empiricalbasis for training and test purposes significantly im-proved the functionality and robustness of our mod-ule, and allowed for focusing our efforts on real prob-lems.
The system is fully integrated in the VERBMO-BIL system and has been tested on several thousandsof utterances.Nevertheless, processing in the real system cre-ates still new challenges.
One problem that has tobe tackled in the future is the segmentation of turnsinto utterances.
Currently, turns are very often splitup into too many and too small utterances.
In thefuture, we will have to focus on the problem of "glue-ing" fragments together.
When given back to thetransfer and generation modules, this will enhancetranslation quality.Future work includes also more training and theability to handle sparse data.
Although we use one ofthe largest annotated corpora vailable, for purposeslike training we still need more data.AcknowledgementsThis work was funded by the German Federal Min-istry of Education, Science, Research and Technol-ogy (BMBF) in the framework of the VERBMOBILProject under Grant 01IV101K/1.
The responsibil-ity for the contents of this study lies with the au-thors.
We thank our students Ralf Engel, MichaelKipp, Martin Klesen, and Panla Sevastre for theirvaluable contributions.
Special thanks to Reinhardfor Karger's Machine.Re ferencesAlexandersson, Jan. 1995.
Plan recognition inV~.RBMOBm.
In Mathias Bauer, Sandra Carberry,and Diane Litman, editors, Proceedings of theIJCAI-95 Workshop The Next Generation o\] PlanRecognition Systems: Challenges for and Insightfrom Related Areas of AI, pages 2-7, Montreal,August.Alexandersson, Jan. 1996.
Some Ideas for the Auto-matic Acquisition of Dialogue Structure.
In AntonNijholt, Harry Bunt, Susann LuperFoy, Gert Veld-huijzen van Zanten, and Jan Schaake, editors,Proceedings of the Eleventh Twente Workshop onLanguage Technology, TWLT, Dialogue Manage-ment in Natural Language Systems, pages 149-158, Enschede, Netherlands, June 19-21.Alexandersson, Jan and Norbert Reithinger.
1995.Designing the Dialogue Component in a SpeechTranslation System - a Corpus Based Approach.In Proceedings of the 9th Twente Workshop onLanguage Technology (Corpus Based Approachesto Dialogue Modeling), Twente, Holland.Bub, Thomas and Johannes Schwinn.
1996.
Verb-mobil: The evolution of a complex large speech-to-speech translation system.
In Proceedings ofICSLP-96, pages 2371-2374, Philadelphia, PA.Jekat, Susanne, Alexandra Klein, Elisabeth Maler,Ilona Maleck, Marion Mast, and J. JoachimQuantz.
1995.
Dialogue Acts in VERB-MOBIL.
Verbmobil Report 65, Universitiit Ham-burg, DFKI Saarbriicken, Universitiit Erlangen,TU Berlin.39Jelinek, Fred.
1990.
Serf-Organized Language Mod-eling for Speech Recognition.
In A. Walbel andK.-F. Lee, editors, Readings in Speech Recogni-tion.
Morgan Kaufraann, pages 450-506.Kita, Kenji, Yoshikazu Fukui, Masaki Nagata, andTsuyoshi Morimoto.
1996.
Automatic acquisitionof probabilistic dialogue models.
In Proceedings ofISSD-96, pages 109-112, Philadelphia, PA.Lavie, Alon, Lori Levin, Yan Qu, Alex Waibel,Donna Gates, Marsal Gavalda, Laura Mayfield,and Maite Taboada.
1996.
Dialogue process-ing in a conversational speech translation sys-tem.
In Proceedings ol ICSLP-96, pages 554-557,Philadelphia, PA.Maier, Elisabeth.
1996.
Context Constructionas Subtask of Dialogue Processing - the VERB-MOBIL Case.
In Anton Nijholt, Harry Bunt,Susann LuperFoy, Gert Veldhuijzen van Zan-ten, and Jan Sehaake, editors, Proceedings ol theEleventh Twente Workshop on Language Tech-nology, TWLT, Dialogue Management in Natu-ral Language Systems, pages 113-122, Enschede,Netherlands, June 19-21.Reithinger, Norbert, Ralf Engel, Michael Kipp, andMartin Klesen.
1996.
Predicting Dialogue Actsfor a Speech-To-Speech Translation System.
InProceedings ol International Conlerenee on Spo-ken Language Processing (ICSLP-96).Stolcke, Andreas.
1994.
Bayesian Learning of Prob-abilistic Language Models.
Ph.D. thesis, Univer-sity of California t Berkeley.Traum, David R. and James F. Allen.
1992.
A"Speech Acts" Approach to Grounding in Conver-sation.
In Proceedings ofInternational Conferenceon Spoken Language Processing (ICSLP'9~), vol-ume 1, pages 137-140.Wahl.qter, Wolfgang.
1993.
Verbmobil-Translationof Face-to-Face Dialogs.
Technical report, Ger-man Research Centre for Artificial Intelligence(DFKI).
In Proceedings ofMT Summit IV, Kobe,Japan, July 1993.40
