CATMORF: Multi two-level steps for Catalan morphologyTon i  Bad ia ,  _kngels Egea  & Anton i  Tue l l sIULA - -  Universitat Pompeu FabraLa Rambla  30-32; Barcelona 08002; Cata lunya - Spaintbadia@upf, es ANGELS@slc.ub.es tuells@upf, es1 An  Overv iew o f  the  sys temCATMORF (Badia, Egea & Tuells, 1997) is the cen-tral module of a tagger intended to deal with freeinput.
It operates on texts structurally marked withSGML tags and attaches SGML tags to every wordof the text.textI THM \]CATMORF II TAGGER "1unambiguouslytagged textFigure 1: General overview of the systemThe text-handling module (THM) receives as in-put the plain text between SGML marks.
It as-signs a tag to the textual items that be handledby CATMORF: numbers, dates, proper names...(i.e,the usual pre-process).
The input to CATMORF isthe set of textual items to which the text-handlerhas not been able to assign a tag.CA TMORF assigns as many tags to each word-form as morphological nalyses are allowed by its70000 items dictionary and its two-level and word-grammar rules.
The output of CATMORF, in theform of a set of SGML tags, is returned to the mas-ter program which assigns a dummy tag to the stillunrecognised words and passes over the tagged textto the third module.Currently the tagger is an adaptation to Catalanof the Multext tagger (Armstrong et al, 1996).2 In terna l  s t ruc ture  o f  CATMORFCATMORF's internal structure (figure 2) conformsto the two level paradigm.
In the two-level frame-work, as it is well known, morphographemics is mod-elled in two-level rules (TLR) and morphotactics ei-ther in continuation classes or in unification wordgrammars (WG).
Our system models morphotac-tics in a (DCG-like) WG and morphographemics inSEGMORF (Badia & Tuells, 1997), a variant of theALEP morphographemic formalism (CEC, 1994).2.1 The TLR modu leThe main characteristics of the formalism is thatit allows the linguist to express both the mor-phographemic and morphotacticai contexts thusconstraining the application of TLRs.Thus a rule in CATMORF may make use of thefollowing data structures: the Surface Left and Rightmorphographemic contexts; the Lexical Left andRight morphographemic contexts; the Morpholog-ical Left and Right contexts; and the Applicationcontext (i.e, a feature structure which keeps trace ofthe application of rules and which must unify withthe application-FS associated to every morph foundin the lexicon).As is customary the surface and lexical descrip-tions in rules are related by four types of operators.Note that some of the facilities in SEGMORF werenot available in the Alep formalism: the specifica-tion of the morphotactical context, the possibility ofmapping single characters onto multiple ones, andthe ability to cross morpheme boundaries.2.2 The Word GrammarDue to the expressivity of the TLRs the WG canbe very simple: it is a DCG-style grammar, whichbuilds a word out of the morphemes into which thesurface string has been divided and provides themorphosyntactic information at the word level.25stringTLMI N-TLM.4I V-TLMset of morphs$WGMappropriatelemmas+ling in\]oEMappropriatetaggs)LEXICAN-LEXICONV-LEXICONPREF-LEXFigure 2: Internal structure of CATMORF2.3 CATMORF 's  lexiconThe items in our lexicon contain information on theword form and lemma; the inflection paradigm ofverbs, nouns and adjectives (needed for both the WGand the TLR components); and the blocking of rulesby several classes of stems.All this information, including the one concerningthe inflection paradigms and the blocking of ruleshas been obtained semi-automatically from a MRD(a conventional "human-reader-in-mind" dictionaryavailable in electronic form): the IEC dictionary(IEC, 1996), which is a recent normative dictionaryfor Catalan.3 Techn ica l  deta i l sThe main technical characteristics of our analyzer:?
The system has been written in Sicstus Prolog.?
The system covers nominal and verbal inflectionfully.
A few nominal derivation processes arealso covered.
114 rules cover nominal inflection;10 rules cover verbal inflection.?
The WG has 1 rule for verbal inflection and 15rules for nominal processes.26?
The original MRD contains 67567 entries.
Ourlexicon contains 70543 entries; 11092 verbs(around 9000 stems and 2000 lexicalized verbforms), 386 verbal suffixes, 56275 nouns and ad-jectives, 3 nominal suffixes and 2555 adverbs.The rest of the entries are prepositions, con-junctions, etc.?
Only around 800 nouns and around 2000 verbforms have been added to the system by hand.The rest of the entries (around 60000) have beenadded automatically.?
The system is currently being used in the anal-ysis of Catalan newspapers.4 The  Mu l t i  two- leve l  stepsf rameworkIn Catalan, TL-rules depend on word formation pro-cesses.
114 rules cover nominal inflection and deriva-tion processes, whereas only 10 rules cover verbalinflection; thus, few rules can be considered as ap-plicable to both inflections.This shows that Catalan morphology can be moreefficiently accounted for in a multi two-level stepsframework, in which different TLR and WG rule setsare available, depending on the type of word forma-tion process to cover (as depicted in figure 2).
Mor-phemes (prefixes, noun stems, verbal stems, etc.)
donot direct to continuation classes (or sublexicons);instead, word formation processes (according to theWG) select their appropiate sublexicons.Note that this framework does not avoid the spec-ification of morpbotactical contexts for those mor-phographemic changes which involve interaction be-tween TLRs and the WG.
It simply specifies thatfor some word formation processes only a subset ofTLRs should be considered.
See (Badia & Tuells,1997) for further considerations.ReferencesCEC.
1994.
The Alep Linguistic System.Armstrong; Robert; and Bouillon 1996.
Building aLanguage Model for POS Tagging (ms.).Badia; Egea & Tuells 1997.
CATMORF: Multi-two-level steps for Catalan morphology IULAWorking Paper.Badia & Tuells 1997.
SEGMORF: An extension ofthe Alep morphographemic segmentation formal-ism.
3rd Alep User Workshop.
Saarbriicken.Institut d'Estudis Catalans.
1996.
Diccionari de laLlengua Catalana.
