CIRCSIM-Tutor: An Intelligent Tutoring SystemUsing Natural Language Dialogue*Martha W. EvensRu-Charn Chang SYoon Hee Lee SLeem Seop Shim SChong Woo Woo SYuemei ZbangDepartment of CSAMIllinois Institute of Technology10 W. 31st Street 236-SBChicago, IL 60616csevens @minna.
iit.
eduJoel A. MichaelAllen A. RovickDepartment of PhysiologyRush Medical College1750 West HarrisonChicago, IL 60612jmichael@steve.i it .eduaar@rpslmc, eduAbstractCIRCSlM-Tutor version 2, a dialogne-based intelligenttutoring system (ITS), is nearly five years old.
Itconducts a conversation with a student o help thestudent learn to solve a class of problems in cardio-vascular physiology dealing with the regulation ofblood pressure.
It uses natural anguage for both inputand output, and can handle a variety of syntacticconstructions and lexical items, including sentencefragments and misspelled words.Using CIRCSIM-TutorOne of the important topics which beginning medicalstudents must learn is how blood pressure is regulatedin the human body.
When something happens tochange the blood pressure, such as a change in thevolume of blood in the body, the body mustcompensate.
The negative feedback loop whichcontrols this process, known as the baroreeeptorreflex, can be a difficult topic for students.CIaCSlM-Tutor is based on a qualitative modelinvolving seven core physiological parameters.
Thecore parameters and the causal relationships betweenthem are shown in the concept map in Figure 1.Figure 1 also shows the influence of the nervoussystem, which plays an essential role in blood pressure*This work was supported by the Cognitive ScienceProgram, Office of Naval Research under GrantNo.
N00014-94-1-0338, to Illinois Institute of Technology.The content does not reflect the position or policy of thegovernment and no official endorsement should be inferred.~:Ru-Charn Chang is now at Baxter Laboratories, NorthChicago, IL.
Yoon Hee Lee is currently Director of Trainingand Education, Institute of Defense Analysis, Seoul, Korea.Leem Seop Shim is currently at the Department ofInformation Science and Telecommunications, HanshinUniversity, Osan, Korea.
Chong Woo Woo is currently Chairof the Department of Computer Science, KookminUniversity, Seoul, Korea.regulation.
(In the diagram, Baro=baroreceptorpressure and NS = nervous ystem response.
)Students use CIRCSIM-Tutor to learn to solveproblems like those taught in their physiology course.Students are asked to predict the value of the sevenparameters at three points in time: the DR or directresponse stage immediately atter the precipitatingevent, the RR or reflex response stage after the nervoussystem responds, and the SS or new steady state stage.When students start CIRCSIM-Tutor, they see themain user interface screen illustrated in Figure 2.
Theprecipitating event (a broken pacemaker in this case) isshown at the top of the screen.
One side of the screencontains room for students to enter their predictions.After the predictions are entered, the dialogue willunfold on the other side of the screen.Instructional and Discourse PlanningThe main components of CIRCSIM-Tutor v.2 are theinput understander, the student modeler, the instruc-tional planner, the discourse processor, the textgenerator, and the knowledge base/problem solver.FF+ B' - \ [ -  ?
+q'+Figure 113CIRCS\]M-Tutor picks a problem for the student osolve and obtains the correct answers from the problemsolver.
It collects the student's predictions and calls theinstructional planner to conduct aconversation.The planner is given the student's predictions, plus astudent model showing student errors and possiblemisconceptions.
CIRCSIM-Tutor v. 2 uses an overlaymodel.
For each causal relation in the knowledge base,the student model keeps a record of whether thestudent is correct or mistaken about that relationship.This record is built when the predictions are firstentered and updated uring the dialogue.The planning cycle is implemented with anaugmented finite state machine.
The tutoring plans arekept on a stack.
State transitions are chosen based onthe student's current input, whether the student hasattempted the question before, and domain knowledge.For example, the system only generates a hint when thestudent makes a mistake on the first try at a question.Otherwise it gives the student the right answer.The planner calls the discourse processor with a listof discourse actions uch as the following:1.
Elicit the determinants of the erroneous variable2.
Elicit the currently active determinant3.
Elicit the relationship between the active deter-minant and the erroneous variable4.
Elicit the correct valueAlternatives to elicit are to give a declarative expla-nation or a hint ("Remember that ...").Parsing, Interpretation and and Spelling CorrectionThe input understanding component of CIRCSIM-Tutorv.
2 contains a bottom-up chart parser, producing firsta phrase-structure parse and then a Lexical FunctionalGrammar f-structure.
Matching the f-structurefunctional representation f the student's utterance toProblem: Pacemaker malfunctionsDR RR SS DialogueRAPCCSVHRCOTPRMAPthe logic form of the tutor's question is largelyperformed by ad hoc code.
This task is simplified bythe fact that ten predicates cover most student answers.The CIRCSIM-Tutor v. 2 input lexicon is comprisedof approximately 750 lemmata.
Also in the lexicon arebasic Lexical-Functional Grammar annotations to beused by the parser.
Spelling correction is an importantaspect of the input understander, asstudents frequentlymisspell words, abbreviate creatively, and make wordboundary errors (two words joined together or a singleword split in two).
Spelling correction is based on athree-way match algorithm which slides a smallwindow simultaneously across both the unknown inputword and a candidate word from the lexicon.
Trans-positions, elisions, substitutions, and similar errrors arecounted and the most likely candidate is picked.Text GenerationThe text generator produces entences from logic formsgenerated by the planner.
A single tutor turn mayinvolve several logic forms, such as an acknow-ledgment, an explanation expressed as a declarativestatement, and a question.
The logic forms are used tofill in abstract emplates.
Transformations such aspassivization, insertion of auxiliary verbs and wh-movement are performed, and the final sentence islinearized with the help of an LFG grammar.Example of Generated DialogueHere is an excerpt from a conversation generated fromthe tutoring tutoring tactic illustrated above:T: Remember that the Direct Response occurs imme-diately and produces changes in the system beforeany reflex is activated.
What controls HR?S: Nervous ystem.T: Correct.
Heart rate is neurally controlled.
What isthe correct value of HR?S: Unchanged.T: Correct, the value of HR is unchanged ...AcknowledgmentsWe thank Stefan Brandle, Reva Freedman and MichaelGlass for continued enhancements to v. 2 as part oltheir research on v. 3, and for writing this document.ReferencesThe CmcslM-Tutor project has published over 5(papers.
For a complete bibliography, please see ouJWeb page http: //www.
csam.
iit.
edu/~ci  rcs im.Figure 214
