An Improvement in the Selection Process of MachineTranslation Using Inductive Learning with Genetic AlgorithmsHiroshi Echizen-yaDivision of Electronics and InformationHokkaido UniversitySapporo, 060 Japanech iChudk,  hokuda i ,  ac.
jpKenji Arak iDept.
of Electronics and InformationHokkai-Gakuen UniversitySapporo, 064 Japanaraki~eli, hokkai-s-u, ac.
jpYoshikazu Miyanaga Koji TochinaiDivision of Electronics and InformationHokkaido University Sapporo, 060 Japan{miyanaga,  toch ina i}?hudk ,  hokuda?, ac .
jpAbst rac tWe proposed a method of machine transla-tion using inductive learning with geneticalgorithms, and confirmed the effectivenessof applying genetic algorithms.
However,the system based on this method producesmany erroneous translation rules that can-not be completely removed from the dictio-nary.
Therefore, we need to improve howto apply genetic algorithms to be able to re-move erroneous translation rules from thedictionary.
In this paper, we describe thisimprovement in the selection process andthe results of evaluation experiments.1 In t roduct ionMany studies have been carried out on machinetranslation and a number of problems has been rec-ognized.
Rule-based machine translation (Hutchinsand Somers, 1992) could not deal adequately withvarious linguistic phenomena due to the use of lim-ited rules.
To resolve this problem, Example-basedmachine translation (Sato and Nagao, 1990) has re-cently been proposed.
However, this method re-quires many translation examples to achieve a prac-tical and high-quality translation.Echizen-ya and others previously proposed amethod of Machine Translation using InductiveLearning with Genetic Algorithms (GA-ILMT), andthis method has been evaluated(Echizen-ya et l.,1996).
By applying enetic algorithms, we considerthat our proposed method can effectively solve prob-lems that Example-based machine translation wouldrequire many translation examples.
However, theresults of the evaluation experiments show that thismethod has some problems.
The main problem isthat many erroneous translation rules are producedand these rules cannot be completely removed fromthe dictionary.
Therefore, we need to improve howto apply genetic algorithms to be able to removeerroneous translation rules.
In this paper, we de-scribe an improvement in the selection process ofGA-ILMT, and confirm the effectiveness ofimprove-ment in the selection process of GA-ILMT.2 Out l ine  o f  T rans la t ion  MethodFigure 1 shows the outline of our proposed transla-tion method.
First, the user inputs a source sentencein English.
Second , in the translation process, thesystem produces several candidates oftranslation re-sults using translation rules extracted in the learn-ing process.
Third, the user proofreads the trans-lated sentences if they include some errors.
Fourth,in the feedback process, the system determines thefitness value of translation rules used in the transla-tion process and performs the selection process oferroneous translation rules.
In the learning pro-cess, new translation examples are automaticallyproduced by crossover and mutation, and varioustranslation rules are extracted from the translationexamples by inductive learning.3 Improvement  in  Se lec t ion  P rocessIn the previous method of selection process de-scribed in Section 2, translation rules are evaluatedonly when they are used in the translation process.These translation rules are part of all the translationrules in the dictionary.
Therefore, many erroneous11Source Sentence\[ Translat i7 Pr?cess ~.,,.. ~Translation Result - - - \ ]  ~(~(P roofreadin~) \[ I .
.
.
.
\[ 1 ~ \[ \] ~lC~lonary for I. .
.
.
?
.
.
.
.
.
.
\[ \[Translation es\[ -r'rooIreaa lra~smuon rtesult\[ _~-  RulJ \[Feedback Process \ [ ' ~ f ~,\[Learning Process~IFigure 1: Outline of the translation methodtranslation rules cannot be completely removed fromthe dictionary.To resolve this problem, we propose an improve-ment in the selection process.
Our proposed im-provement does not require any analytical knowl-edge as initial condition.
Methods that use analyti-cal knowledge have some problems, such as difficultyin dealing with unregistered words.
We considerthat this problem can be resolved by the learningmethod without any analytical knowledge.
There-fore, we consider that our proposed improvementcan remove many erroneous translation rules by uti-lizing only the given translation examples withoutthe requirement of analytical knowledge.The system evaluates the translation rules byutilizing the given translation examples directly.Namely, it determines whether a combination of theEnglish word and the Japanese word in a translationrule is true or false by utilizing the given translationexamples.
The combination may be true when it ex-ists in a given translation example.
For example, thecombination of words which are "I" in English and" Watashi 1 (In Japanese "I")" in Japanese is truewhen this combination exists in a given translationexample.
On the other hand, the combination ofwords which are "volleyball" in English and "Ba-sukettoboru(In Japanese "basketball")" in Japaneseis false when this combination does not exist in allgiven translation examples.
In the all combinationsof words in a translation rule, the system determineswhether the each combination of words is true orfalse.
And the system determines the rate of errorbased on the number of erroneous combinations, andremoves the translation rules for which the rate oferror is high.4 Exper imentsIn the experiments, 461 translation examples wereused as data.
The examples were taken from a text-book (Hasegawa et al, 1991) for first-grade junior1Italic means pronunciation of Japanesehigh school students.
All of the translation exam-ples were processed by the method outlined in Fig-ure 1.
The initial dictionary was empty.
The exper-iments were carried out with and without the im-provement for the selection process described in Sec-tion 3.
In the experiments, the precision increasedfrom 87.5% to 93.7% and the recall increased from4.5% to 56.0%.5 Conc lus ionIn the previous selection process, the translationrules are evaluated only when they are used in thetranslation process.
Therefore, the translation ruleswhich are not used in the translation process arenever removed from the dictionary.
However, theproposed improvement can evaluate all of the pro-duced translation rules by utilizing only the giventranslation examples.6 AcknowledgementsThe part of this research as been done during thesecond author Kenji Araki's stay at CSLI of Stan-ford University.
We would like to express our specialappreciation to the stuffs of CSLI.ReferencesW.
John Hutchins and Harold L. Somers.
1992.An Introduction to Machine Translation.
ACA-DEMIC PRESS.
(London)Sato, S. and Nagao, M. 1990.
Toward Memory-based Translation.
In Proceedings of the Col-ing'90, pages 247-252, Helsinki, Finland, August.Echizen-ya, H., Araki, K., Momouchi, Y. and Tochi-nai, K. 1996.
Machine Translation Method Us-ing Inductive Learning with Genetic Algorithms.In Proceedings of the Coling'96, pages 1020-1023,Copenhagen, Denmark, August.Hasegawa, K. et al, 1991.
One World EnglishCourse 1 New Edition.
Kyoiku Shuppan.
(Tokyo).12
