Two Mult imodal  Interfaces to Military SimulationsKenneth  WauchopeNavy Center for Applied Research in Artificial Intell igenceNaval Research Laboratory,  Code 55124555 Overlook Avenue, S.W.Washington,  DC 20375-5337, USAwauchope~aic, nrl.
navy.
mil1 In t roduct ionEucalyptus and InterLACE are two projects inte-grating spoken atural language interaction with thealready-developed graphical user interfaces of cur-rently existing military simulation systems.
We takethis approach (rather than developing new, fully in-tegrated systems from scratch) to facilitate the de-velopment of Navy demonstrations of NL technol-ogy applied to their own tools, as well as to explorethe relative strengths and weaknesses of graphicalvs.
NL interfaces and how the two can be used incombination toyield more powerful interaction tech-niques.
The natural anguage processing capabilityof the two systems i described in an accompanyingProceedings technical note (Wauchope t al.
1997);here we go into a bit more detail on the issues ofmultimodal integration with graphical interfaces.2 Euca lyptusOur first venture into multimodal interface devel-opment was Eucalyptus, a spoken natural languageinterface integrated with the graphical user inter-face of the KOALAS AEW Test Planning Tool, asimulation-based mockup of a hypothetical Naval aircombat command and control system.
Our objectivewas to have the functionality ofthe NL interface du-plicate and parallel that of the GUI, allowing com-parison of language-based and graphical approachesto predication and reference.
We also sought for thetwo modalities to interact in a number of ways, suchas deictic reference (combined pointing and speak-ing) and NL interaction with graphical dialog win-dows.2.1 GuidelinesWe adhered to the following guidelines and ap-proaches in developing Eucalyptus.?
Spoken inputs are normative English utterancesonly, not just arbitrary individual words orphrases.
Such utterances can include certainelliptical or fragmentary forms, but only thosethat people might normally use with each otherunder similar circumstances.
As a result Euca-lyptus is a spoken NL system, not just a voicecommand system.
This is not to say that voicecommands are undesirable or that people pre-fer to use conversational l nguage when talkingto a machine, but just represents our particularresearch interests.We address NL input only, not output.
TheNAUTILUS NLP processor does try to gener-ate brief and helpful English sentence fragmentsin response to user queries, but this is deliber-ately underdeveloped since we also have ongo-ing work in adapting a full-fledged NL gener-ation system for full-sentence query responses(integrated into our second demo system Inter-LACE, to be discussed later).We are careful not to provide the NL interfacewith any new domain functionality not alreadyavailable in some way from the graphical inter-face.
This ensures that any comparisons be-tween the two will be based strictly on syntaxand convenience ofuse.We disallow "metalinguistic" NL references tothe graphical interface itself (e.g.
Open theadvice explanation window, Push the 'MoveFighter' button) in favor of direct references tothe task domain (Show the current advice, Movea fighter).
This avoids the user treating thegraphical interface as primary and speech as asubservient adjunct, a kind of "vocal mouse" asit were.
Again this is not to deny that speechcontrol of a GUI might be useful for handi-capped individuals or in extremely hands-busysituations, but just encourages the user's per-ception of the two interfaces as parallel andequal partners.212.2 Mu l t imoda l  In tegrat ionTo issue an order to a simulated fighter aircraft usingthe KOALAS graphical interface, the user first clicksa button labelled with the order type (e.g.
Move, Re-call) which pops up a dialog window requesting thatthe user select the desired objects by mousing themon the radar screen, echoing the objects' names intext fields as they are selected, and finally requestingan accept/quit decision.
The Move Fighter dialogbox, for example, prompts first for the fighter andthen for the new patrol station (optional parameterslike speed are not prompted for but can be adjustedat any time).This rather specialized dialog box behavior isdistinctly language-like in two ways: the resultinggraphical syntax (Move, fighter, station) closely re-sembles NL imperative syntax (Move this fighter tothis slation)~ and the prompting sequence resemblesa natural language dialog.
As a result we electedto use KOALAS dialog boxes both for accept/quitconfirmation of completely specified NL commands(Move fighter 1 to station 4), as well as to promptfor remaining unspecified arguments (Move fighter1).
In either case, speech can also be used to dis-miss the dialog (Okay, Cancel that) as well as toprovide remaining arguments to the dialog (one ofthe fighters holding station 4).The second form of multimodal integration in Eu-calyptus is through deietic reference: phrases likethis fighter accompanied by a mouse click.
Sincemouse clicks in the KOALAS graphical interface donot create a "current selected object" but rather re-port the closest object of the type being promptedfor by the current dialog box prompt, this behav-ior was easy to modify for deictic reference: themouse click identifies a set of possible objects andthe accompanying NL context (this fighter, Movethis here) provides the semantic presuppositions todisambiguate he denoted object.Finally, we allow purely graphical interactions tohave elliptical or anaphoric NL followups.
For exam-ple after completing a fighter move using the GUI,the NL inputs Same with fighter 2 or Move fighter 3there also will be properly understood.3 In terLACEInterLACE is a multimodal interface to the AirForce's LACE land/air combat simulation sys-tem, containing an extensive real-world cartographicdatabase of central Germany.
Unlike KOALAS,LACE came to us with no graphical interface, al-though all the "hooks" were in place to implementa map display with animation of simulated objects.Since with LACE there was no graphical com-mand interface to mirror in natural language, weopted instead to focus on database query (also in-cluded in Eucalyptus) and the issuing of verbal on-road route instructions to a simulated tank unit.
De-ictic reference was implemented similary to Eucalyp-tus, the difference being that we chose to implementthe conventional notion of "current selected object":objects clicked by the mouse are highlighted and re-main so until deselected.
The user can also selecta set of closely adjacent objects with a double-clickand then, as in Eucalyptus, use verbal context (thistown, What's the population here?)
to resolve thereference.3.1 Database  QueryBecause of the large size of the database (over twelvethousand objects) and the need to reduce the searchspace during information retrieval, we elected to con-strain the domain of NL discourse to only thoseobjects currently visible in the map display, repre-senting about one-eighth of the entire database atany one time.
Hence Does this road cross any smalltowns?
only reports back towns that are currentlyvisible in the display, based on the assumption thatthis is the user's current focus of attention (this con-straint applies only to quantified NPs and not propernames, i.e.
Does this road cross Berlin?
does not re-quire that Berlin be visible).3.2 Tank  CommandsLACE provides for the instantiation of simulatedground vehicles (such as tank units and SAM missilecarriers) and includes a number of routines for on-road navigation, including a route planner for com-puting paths between towns.
Verbal instructions tothe tank giving just a destination (Go to the near-est small town) invoke the route planner, but sincethe planner does not accept specification of meansfor getting to the destination, commands like Headnorth on road E2 for 5 km instead invoke an In-terLACE function called the "stretch selector" thattries to find a single stretch of road (a sequence ofroad segments between two adjacent linkage points)that reconciles every component of the means.
Thetank understands both cardinal (northeast) and rel-ative directions (left), and in ambiguous ituationschooses the stretch that bears the most closely inthe specified irection.22
