Applying Repair Processing in ChineseHomophone DisambiguationYue-Sh i  Lee  and  Hs in -Hs i  ChenDepar tment  o f  Computer  Sc ience and In format ion Eng ineer ingNat ional  Ta iwan Univers i tyTaipei ,  Taiwan,  R.O.C.E-Mai l :  { leeys, hh_chen }@csie .ntu.edu.
twAbst ractRepair processing plays an important role inspoken language processing systems.
Thispaper proposes a method for correctingChinese repetition repairs and demonstratesthe effects of repair processing in Chinesehomophone disambiguation.
Theexperimental results show that the precisionrate of 93.87% and the recall rate of 90?65%can be achieved for the repair processing.At the same time, 50% of errors in therepairing segments can be reduced forChinese homophone disambiguation.1 IntroductionRepair is a very common phenomenon in spokenlanguages.
Speakers usually repeat, add, replace, oreven abandon some constructions in the utterances forsome mental reasons.
Typical repairs in Chinesespoken data' are shown in (1) and (2).
(i) ?
..~2 ~ ~ t~ ~%--I drink wine too SHI.
.sometimes SHI...(1.3)~__ ^ ;~--not too..~F~ ~$fJ ~ .
\not too constrain-oneself particle(I am sometimes addicted to drinking.
)The transcription system proposed by Bois, et al (1992) is used totranscribe the spoken data.
The three symbols ...(N) .... and ..denote an unfilled pause (silence) is long, medium and short,respectively.
The symbol % denotes the glottal stop.
(2)because ye?
.1~1~ - -  N.\eye once close(Because ye .. Once (you) close your eyes .. .
.
)Heeman and Allen (1994) describe that 25% ofturns contain at least one speech repair in their corpus.In our study, 17% of turns contain at least one speechrepair?
Thus, the repair processing cannot benegligible and has influences to a certain extent.Recently, text-first approach and speech-firstapproach ave been proposed to touch on repairs inEnglish.
The text-first approach assumes the speechrecognizer could provide a correct ranscription.
Thatis, it tries to detect and correct speech repairsautomatically using text alone?
Hindle (1983) addsrules to a deterministic parser to tackle the problem ofcorrecting speech repairs.
His parsing strategydepends on the successful disambiguation of thesyntactic categories.
Although syntactic categoriescan be determined well by local context, Hindle admitsthat speech repair disrupts the local context.
Bear, etal.
(1992) firstly try to parse the input sentence andthen invoke a repair processing when the parsing fails?For repair processing, a simple pattern matcher findsthe candidates based on the lexical cues at the firststage.
Then the syntactic and semantic processingfilters out the impossible candidates.
Heeman andAllen (1994) present an algorithm that detects andcorrects modification and abridged repairs.
Thealgorithm uses some repair patterns to capture potentialrepairs.
These patterns are built based on theidentification of word fragments, editing terms 2, andword correspondences between the repaired segment2 The editing terms can either be filled pauses (e.g., urn, un, er) orcue phrases (e.g., I mean, 1guess, well).57and the repairing segment 3.
The resulting potentialrepairs are then passed to a statistical filter that judgesthe proposal as either fluent speech or an actual repair.The speech-first approach tries to identify speechrepairs using acoustic and prosodic cues.
Nakataniand Hirschberg (1993a; 1993b) investigate thedetection of the interruption point of speech repairsbased on this line.
The cues that they found are theoccurrence of a filled pause, the presence of a wordfragment, the energy peaks in each word and otherfeatures uch as accent.
However, they do not addressthe problem of correcting speech repairs.
In otherwords, they do not determine which words areundesired.These approaches cannot be adopted to deal withChinese speech repairs for the following reasons.First, a Chinese sentence is composed of a string ofcharacters without any word boundaries.
In otherwords, it is necessary to segment Chinese sentencebefore tagging and parsing (Chen and Liu, 1992; Sproat,et al, 1994; Chen and Lee, 1996).
Repairs makesegmentation and text-first approach more difficult.Second, Chinese repairs may not always have anediting terms between a repaired segment and arepairing segment.
In other words, editing terms donot have much effect in Chinese repair processing.Third, duplicate constructions (e.g., ~'~\['I~ (banglbangl mang2, help), \]i~:~\]i~:,~ (yan2 jiu4 yah2 jiu4,study)) generated by repeating words or phrases inChinese utterances are used very often, but they do notalways initiate a repair.
That is, a simple patternmatching mechanism cannot be workable.
Forth, theChinese speech repairs may be initiated at varioussyntactic environment (Chui, 1995), e.g., before thesubject, during the subject, after the subject and beforethe verb, during the verb, during a direct object, duringa prepositional phrase, during subordination, and so on.The variety makes the identification of Chinese speechrepairs more troublesome.Because the repairs introduce much noise inlanguage processing, we cannot defer the task of repairprocessing to the latter stages.
This paper employsacoustic and prosodic information to correct Chineserepetition repairs.
The results are applied to Chinesehomophone disambiguation.
Section 2 defines fourmajor types of speech repairs.
Section 3 introducesthe spoken corpus.
Sections 4 and 5 describe the3 A repair is composed of a repaired segment and a repairingsegment which immediately follows the repaired segment.
Arepaired segment denotes the portion of the utterance which is beingrepaired, and a repairing segment denotes the portion which isaccomplishing the repair (Fox and Jasperson, forthcoming).
That is.the repaired segment is replaced by the repairing segment.baseline and the advanced models for repetition repairs,respectively.
Section 6 demonstrates the effects ofrepair processing in Chinese homophonedisambiguation.
Section 7 concludes the remarks.2 Types of Chinese Speech RepairsHeeman and Allen (1994) divide English speech repairsinto three types: fresh start, modification repair andabridged repair.
For Chinese speech repairs, Chui(1995) classify them into eleven patterns.
In thissection, we map these eleven patterns into four majortypes according to their surface forms.Let A, B, C, D, X and Y be character strings and# be interruption point ~.
The four major types ofspeech repairs are described below.
The repair, therepaired segment and the repairing segment are inunde\[lin_e , italic and boldface, respectively.
Theyappear within an utterance or between two consecutiveutterances.
(a) Repetition RepairThe repetition repair can be represented asfollows:XA#AYThe repetition can range from a portion of a word up toseveral words.
After being repaired, the utterancesbecome XAY.
(1) and (2) are two examples.
(b) Addition RepairThere are two types of addition repairs.
(i) The type I addition repairrepresented asfollows:can beXAB#ACBYAfter being repaired, the utterances becomeXACBY.
(3) shows an example.
(3) \[^~ -~,-He say..,~ @~\] ~ ~,-He today until say...,,~ :~ ~ ~ ~ ~: ~=.\most not like drink DE SHI he(He said .. Until today he said that he is theone who dislikes drinking most.
)4 The end of the repaired segment is called the interruption point.
Itis often accompanied by a disruption i the intonation contour.58(ii) The type II addition repair can berepresented asfollows:XA#BAYAfter being repaired, the utterances becomeXBAY.
(c) Replacement RepairThere are five types of replacement repairs.
(i) The type I replacement repair canrepresented asfollows:beXAB#ACYAfter being repaired, the utterances become XACY.
(4) shows an example.
(4) .
.~  ~%-We wait.
.
\ [~\ ]  ~ .
\We chat(We wait .. We chat.
)(ii) The type II replacement repair can berepresented asfollows:XAB#CBYAfter being repaired, the utterances becomeXCBY.
(iii) The type III replacement repair can berepresented asfollows:XABC#ADCYAfter being repaired, the utterances becomeXADCY.
(iv) The type IV replacement repair can berepresented asfollows:X,4BC#ACYAfter being repaired, the utterances becomeXACY.
(v) Different from the above replacementrepairs, the repaired segment and the repairingsegment in this type do not match any characters.It can be represented asfollows:XA#BYAfter being repaired, the utterances become XBY.
(5) shows an example.
(5) ?
.~--TheyShe majors-in DE.
.^7~ <L2 Computer Science L2>.\not Computer Science(They ..
Her major is not Computer Science.
)(d) Abandon RepairThe original utterance is discarded and a new utteranceis initiated.
(6) shows an example.
(6) ...(.9)~J~J~ ;\[-<~\]~ --Yt~--Then don't together.
.~  ~ ~--Lg  ~ ~\]?/all of us sit together for what particle(Then don't together .. For what do all of us sit(here) together?
)3 Spoken CorpusThe spoken corpus used in this paper consists of twocommonplace, veryday conversations among friends.Each is about forty-minute long.
There are four andfive speakers in these two conversations, respectively.In total, this corpus contains 5,395 utterances, 22,409words and 2,602 turns.
There are totally 440 self-.
5 repairs.
On the average, 17% of turns contain at leastone repair.
Table 1 lists the frequency distribution ofeach type of repairs in two conversations.Table 1.Convers~ionsConv.
llRepeat \] Add I Replace1 122 23 162 199 26 22Total II ~=' I 49 I 38Frequency Distribution of Repairs in TwoAbandon72532In Table 1, the repetition repairs form the majority5 The speech repairs discussed in this paper are all self-repairs.That is, only the repairs accomplished by the same speaker areconsidered.
This is because this kind of repairs is the mostcommon form of repairs.
Nevertheless, thepresent s udy includesrepairs placed across different turns.59(72.62% in conversation 1 and 73.16% in conversation2) of the repairs.
Addition (Replacement) repairs have13.69% (9.52%) and 9.56% (8.09%) in conversations land 2, respectively.
The rest (4.17% in conversation land 9.19% in conversation 2) are the most complextype of repairs, i.e., Abandon.
Because this papercorrects repairs based on acoustic and prosodic cues,the Chinese characters in the spoken corpus areconverted into the corresponding syllables manually".4 Basel ine Model4.1 Simple Pattern MatchingBecause the repetition repairs form the majority, wefocus on the repetition repairs in this paper.
Althoughthe repetition repairs have the simple surface form,correcting such a kind of speech repairs is not trivial.That is, a simple pattern matching mechanism cannotwork perfectly.
Table 2 explains this point.
A repairis proposed when a string of syllables repeats within anutterance or between two consecutive utterances.Table 2.
The Experimental Results Using SimplePattern MatchingConversation II II  ro osoo1 122 2432 199 412Total II II 655Correct118196314Columns 2, 3 and 4 denote the total repetition repairs,the number of repairs proposed by the simple patternmarcher and the number of correct proposed repairs,respectively.
For example, 243 repairs are proposedby the simple pattern marcher in conversation 1, butonly 118 of them are correct.
That is, there are 125false alarms.
Since there are 122 repetition repairs inconversation I, 4 repetition repairs are not captured.They are all English repairs.
Because only Chineserepairs are considered, English repairs are lost.Although this technique can achieve recall rate of97.82%, it has a relatively low precision rate, i.e.,47.94%.Since the simple pattern matching mechanismcannot solve this problem properly, two additional cuesare firstly considered in the baseline model: the lengthof the repeated syllable string and the number of inter-utterances.6 Because we focus our efforts on correcting speech repairs, theidentification f acoustic and prosodic cues does not discuss in thispaper.4.2 The Length of the Repeated SyllableStringHow many syllables are repeated in the repetitionrepairs is an interesting problem in cognition, Table 3lists the distribution of length of the repeated syllablestrings in the repetition repairs.Table 3.
The Distribution of Length of the RepeatedSyllable StringsConversation\Length\[\[ 1 \[ 2 I 3 141 71 40 6 12 107 72 15 2Total II 178 I 112 I 21 I 3The length ranges from 1 to 4.
Thus, when a string ofsyllables repeats and the length of this string is greaterthan 4, we do not regard it as a repetition repair.4.3 The Number of Inter-UtterancesIn human conversation, most of the repetition repairsoccur within an utterance or between two consecutiveutterances of one speaker without interrupting by otherspeakers.
That is, if many utterances i sued by otherspeakers are inserted between two utterances of thesame speaker, the repetition repairs usually do notoccur.
The spoken corpus shows this point.?
Total 13.69% of repetition repairs occur in thesame utterance.?
Total 71.66% of repetition repairs occurbetween two consecutive utterances withoutinterrupting by other speakers.?
Only 0.32% of repetition repairs occur acrossmore than 3 utterances issued by otherspeakers.According to the heuristic rule, when more than 3utterances pronounced by other speakers interrupt hespeech of a speaker, we do not check whether there is arepetition repair or not.5 Advanced Model5.1 Unfilled Pause (...)In spontaneous or conversational speech, we find thatthere is a significant unfilled pause (silence) between arepaired segment and a repairing segment for repetition60repairs 7,whereas actual or intended repeated characters(syllables) usually do not have any unfilled pausesbetween them.
(1) and (2) are examples.
After theunfilled pause information is added to the baselinemodel, the experimental results for two conversationsare listed below.Table 4.PauseConversation Total II ~ro~oso~1 122 992 199 191Total 321 I 290 IThe Experimental Results Using UnfilledCorrect86158244The experimental results show that the precision rate isincreased to 84.14%, and the recall rate is decreased to76.01%.5.2 Glottal Stop (%)Glottal stop has the similar functions to unfilled pause.That is, a glottal stop may occur between the repairedsegment and the repairing segment for the repetitionrepairs, whereas actual repeated characters usually donot have such a marker between them.
(1) is anexample.
Table 5 shows the results when the glottalstop information is used to enhance the baseline model.Table 5.Conversation Total Proposed1 122 312 199 85Total II 3=, II 116The Experimental Results Using Glottal StopCorrect3182113From Table 5, we find that glottal stop is a morereliable cue than unfilled pause, but it does not occur asfrequently as unfilled pause.
These points are verifiedby the high precision rate (97.41%) and the low recallrate (35.20%).
When the unfilled pause informationand the glottal stop information are all applied to thebaseline model, the experimental results for twoconversations are listed in Table 6.
Both the precisionrate (84.71%) and the recall rate (82.87%) are all betterthan those in the former models.7 Because the filled pauses uch as urn, un and er do not occurfrequently inthe spoken corpus, the effects of filled pauses are notdemonstrated in this paper.Table 6.
The Experimental Results Using UnfilledPause and Glottal StopConversation Total\[  Proposed Correct1 122 110 972 199 204 169Total \]\] 321 314 266II5.3 Two Consecut ive Equal  UtterancesIf two consecutive utterances are equal, repetitionrepairs usually do not occur within and between themwhen the length of the utterances i long enough.
Thisis because the matched string usually denotes anemphasis when it is long enough.
This cue caneliminate some implausible repairs, so that theprecision rate can be increased.5.4 Cue PatternsIn Chinese conversation, some words or phrases arefrequently repeated, but they are not repairs.
Typicalexamples are interjections (e.g., ~ (o2, oh)) andphrase-final particles (e.g., ~I (a5, a)).
Thesepatterns called type I cue patterns are used to increasethe precision rate.
That is, a repair is proposed when astring of syllables repeats, satisfies the criteria ofbaseline model, unfilled pause and glottal stop, and thefirst syllable of the string does not belong to type I cuepatterns.In contrast to type I cue patterns, another kind ofpatterns, type II cue patterns, are also considered toincrease the recall rate.
That is, some repeatedsyllable strings that do not satisfy the criteria of unfilledpause and glottal stop, but they are usually repetitionrepairs.
Typical examples are pronouns such as(wo3, I) and '\[g (ni3, you).
Based on type II cuepatterns, some additional repairs can be proposed whena string of syllables repeats, it does not satisfy thecriteria of unfilled pause and glottal stop, but the firstsyllable of the string belongs to type II cue patterns.When all the cues proposed in the previoussubsections are all applied to the baseline model, thefinal experimental results are listed in Table 7.Table 7.
The Final Experimental ResultsConversation \[ Total Proposed1 122 1202 199 190Total 321 310Correct11118029161The experimental results show that the precisionrate of 93.87% and the recall rate of 90.65% can beachieved.6 Repair Processing in ChineseHomophone DisambiguationMandarin Chinese has approximately 1,300 syllables,13,094 commonly used characters, and more than100,000 words.
Each character is pronounced as asyllable and many syllables are shared by severalcharacters.
Some syllables correspond to even morethan 100 characters.
Thus, Chinese homophonedisambiguation is difficult but important in a Chinesephonetic input method and a Chinese speechrecognition system.The problem of Chinese homophonedisambiguation is defined as how to convert a sequenceof syllables S into the corresponding sequence ofcharacters ~ correctly.
Thus, Chinese homophonedisambiguation can be regarded as a process ofconversion of syllable-to-character.
Let S=<s I, s 2,s3, ..., Sn> be a syllable string and C=<Cl, c 2, c 3 ..... Cn>be one corresponding character string.
Here, s idenotes one of 1,300 Chinese syllables and c i denotesone of 13,094 Chinese characters.
The conversion canbe formulated as follows.= argmax P(CIS)CP(SIC)*P(C)argmaxc P(S)The denominator part does not effect he maximizationand it merely serves as a constant multiplier.
Theabove formula therefore becomes as follows.only.
Because repairs introduce much noise, directapplication of this method without repair processing isexpected to have worse performance s .For evaluating the effects of repair processing inthis application, we count how many syllables in therepairing segments are wrongly converted and howmany wrongly converted syllables are recovered afterthe repair processing.
The experimental results arelisted below".Table 8.
The Experimental Results for HomophoneDisambiguationConversation \ [Wrong \ [we  \ [CW II Net1 45 29 2 272 81 41 5 36Total 126 70 \[ 7 63IColumn 2 (Wrong) denotes the number of wronglyconverted syllables before the repair processing.Columns 3 and 4 then indicate the performance hanges.They are classified into two types: Wrong-to-Correct(WC) and Correct-to-Wrong (CW).
In the WC type, awrongly converted syllable is changed to the correctone by the repair processing.
In the CW type, asyllable which is correctly converted before repairprocessing, is changed to a wrong one after the repairprocessing.
The performance of the repair processingcan be evaluated as the net gain shown as follows.Net Gain = # of WC - # of CWIn Table 8, the number of the original errors is 126.After the repair processing, the number of the errors isreduced to 63.
That is, 63 (50%) errors are recoveredby the repair processing.
It reveals that the repairprocessing has much effect in these experiments.- argmax P(SIC)*P(C)CAs most Chinese characters are unambiguous in theirpronunciation (Sproat, 1990), we assume that P(SIC) isone in general case.
Finally, this formula is simplifiedas a Markov character bigram model shown below.= argmax P(C)Cargmax P( c~ )*1-\[ P( c, I c,_, )C i=2The language model is usually trained on fluent text7 Concluding RemarksAny spoken language systems will not perform wellwithout treating speech repairs.
Correcting speechrepairs make more reliable environments for thesubsequent processing.
This paper employs acousticand prosodic cues to correct the repetition repairs.The experimental results show that our method can8 Stolcke and Shriberg (1996) described that "'cleaning up"disfluencies reduces perplexity.9 The Academia Sinica Balance Corpus (1995) is adopted as thetraining corpus in this experiment.
It contains text of severalcategories and includes approximately 360,000 sentences comprisingof about 3,300,000 characters.62achieve the precision rate of 93.87% and the recall rateof 90.65%.
At the same time, 50% of errors in therepairing segment can be reduced for the Chinesehomophone disambiguation.O'Shaughnessy (1992) claims that most speechrepairs do not have lengthening prior to the hesitationpause.
If this cue is used in our model, it can slightlyincrease the precision rate (95.37%), but the recall rate(76.95%) is greatly decreased.Although our method can perform well inrepetition repairs, other kinds of repairs such asaddition, replacement and abandon repairs are notaddressed in this paper.
They have more complexsurface forms and should be investigated further.8 AcknowledgmentsWe are grateful to Professor Kawai Chui for her kindlyproviding the spoken corpus to us.ReferencesJ.
Bear, J. Dowding and E. Shriberg (1992) "IntegratingMultiple Knowledge Sources for Detection andCorrection of Repairs in Human-ComputerDialog," In 30 th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pages 56-63.D.
Bois, et al (1992) "Discourse Transcription," SantaBarbara Papers in Linguistics, Vol.
4.H.H.
Chen and J.C. Lee (1996) "Identification andClassification of Proper Nouns in Chinese Texts,"In 16 th International Conference onComputational Linguistics, pages 222-229.K.J.
Chen and S.H.
Liu (1992) "Word Identification forMandarin Chinese Sentences," In 14 thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, pages 101-107.K.
Chui (1995) "Repair in Chinese Conversation," In2 th International Symposium on Language inTaiwan, pages 75-96.B.A.
Fox and R. Jasperson (forthcoming) "A SyntacticExploration of Repair in English Conversation," InP.
Davis, editor, Descriptive and TheoreticalModels in the Alternative Linguistics, forthcoming.P.
Heeman and J. Allen (1994) "Detecting andCorrecting Speech Repairs," In 32 th AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, pages 295-302.D.
Hindle (1983) "Deterministic Parsing of SyntacticNonfluencies," In 21 th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics, pages123-128.C.R.
Huang, et al (1995) "An Introduction toAcademia Sinica Balance Corpus," In 8 th R.O.C.Computational Linguistics Conference, pages 81-99.C.
Nakatani and J. Hirschberg (1993a) "A Speech-FirstModel for Repair Detection and Correction," In 3 thEuropean Conference on Speech Communicationand Technology, pages 1173-1176.C.
Nakatani and J. Hirschberg (1993b) "A Speech-FirstModel for Repair Detection and Correction," In31 th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pages 46-53.D.
O' Shaughnessy (1992) "Recognition of hesitation iSpontaneous Speech," In 2 th InternationalConference on Spoken Language Processing,pages 521-524.R.
Sproat, et al (1994) "A Stochastic Finite-StateWord-Segmentation Algorithm for Chinese," In32 th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pages 66-73.R.
Sproat (1990) "An Application of StatisticalOptimization with Dynamic Programming toPhonemic-Input-to-Character Conversion forChinese," In 3 th R.O.C.
Computational LinguisticsConference, pages 377-390.A.
Stolcke and E.E.
Shriberg (1996) "StatisticalLanguage Modeling for Speech Disfluencies," InIEEE International Conference on Acoustic,Speech, and Signal Processing, pages 405-408.63
