Reading more into Foreign LanguagesJ ohn  NerbonneAlfa- informatica, BCNUniversity of Groningen9700 AS GroningenThe Nether landsnerbonne@let, rug .
nlLaur i  Kar t tunenRank  Xerox6, Chemin de Mauper tus38240 Meylan, FranceLaur i .
Kar t tunen@grenob le .
rx rc .
xerox ,  comE lena  Paska levaLinguistic Model ing LabBulgar ian Academy of Sciences25A, Acad.
G. Bonchev St.Sofia 1113, Bulgariahellen@bgcict, acad.
bgGabor  P roszekyMorphologicFo  U.
56-58  I /3H-1011 Budapest ,  Hungaryh6109pro@el la ,  huT i i t  RoosmaaComputer  ScienceUniversity of Tartu2 J. Liivi St.EE2400 Tartu,  Estoniaroosmaa@math, ut.
eeAbst ractGLOSSER is designed to support read-ing and learning to read in a foreign lan-guage.
There are four language pairs cur-rently supported by GLOSSER: English-Bulgarian, English-Estonian, English-Hungarian and French-Dutch.
The pro-gram is operational on UNIX and Windows'95 platforms, and has undergone a pilotuser-study.
A demonstration (in UNIX)for Applied Natural Language Processingemphasizes components put to novel tech-nical uses in intelligent computer-assistedmorphological nalysis (ICALL), includingdisambiguated morphological nalysis andlemmatized indexing for an aligned bilin-gual corpus of word examples.1 Mot ivat ionGLOSSER applies natural anguage processing tech-niques, especially morphological processing and cor-pora analysis, to technology for intelligent computer-assisted language learning (ICALL).The project vision foresees that intermediate lan-guage learners/users of e.g., English, perhaps a na-tive speaker of Bulgarian, might be reading on thescreen, perhaps a software manual.
We imagine sucha user encountering an unknown word or an unfamil-iar use of a known word, e.g., reverts as in:"This action reverts the buffer to the form storedon disk"The user can click the mouse on a word to invokeonline help (following a dynamically generated hy-perlink), which provides:1. a morphological parse, separating 'revert' and's', together with an explanation of the signifi-cance of the inflection ('s')--3rd person singularpresent ense;2. the entry to the word 'revert' in a bilingualEnglish/Bulgarian dictionary or a monolingualEnglish one;3. access to similar examples of the word in onlinebilingual corpora; and4.
an audible pronunciation.
(This is includedonly to demonstrate further capabilities, and isavailable only for a small number of words.
)The example of English for Bulgarians is chosenfor illustration.
Software has also been devel-oped for English/Estonian, English/Hungarian andFrench/Dutch.If we assume a rudimentary level of instructionin foreign-language rammar, then a great deal ofthe learning required in order to read is simply vo-cabulary learning, which is best pursued in context(Krashen, 1989; Swaffar, Arens, and Byrnes, 1991).GLOSSER makes  this as easy and  accurate as pos-sible: vocabulary is always presented in context,moreover  in texts which the teacher or student maychoose.
Analyses, dictionary explanations and  fur-ther examples are but a mouse  click away.The  project has developed demonstrators  as aproof of concept, and, in order to promote  use,the demonstrators run on both UNIX  and  Windows'95.
The prototypes have proven sufficiently robustto support reading of essentially all non-specialized135texts.
They have further permited a pilot user-studywhich is being followed up by broader usability stud-ies at two sites.
The initial results showed thatusers enjoyed the intelligent dictionary and were abit faster in reading.The demonstrators have been tested by students,but they might also be put to use to support read-ing directly by people who are not engaged in formallanguage instruction, or perhaps not even primarilyinterested in improving their foreign langauge abil-ity.
Given our emphasis on automatic methods ap-plicable to arbitrary texts, a spin-off in support fortranslations i conceivable.
(Nerbonne and Smit, 1996) provides more onthe ICALL background against which GLOSSERwas developed.
GLOSSER distinguishes itself frommany ICALL programs by its emphasis on languageuse as opposed to drill and test, by its ability tosupport nearly any level of text difficulty, and byits emphasis on effectively removing the tedium ofdictionary use from intermediate language learning.2 Techn ica l  Rea l i za t ionGLOSSER is designed with four major components,which are sketched in Figure 1.SENTENCE WITH SELE~ WORD" \[OU"~UT ON SCREEN}II CORPORA SEARCH \['~Figure 1: GLOSSER Architecture connects mod-ules for morphological nalysis and disambiguation,dictionary access, and (indexed) corpora search withan output module.
The "suggestive" pronunciationmodule is not  shown.The core modules provide the information otedin Section 1, (1-3): morphology, bilingual dictio-nary entry, and examples from use.
A fourth (user-interface and display) module controls interactionwith the user and formats the information provided.Among other things, it allows the range of informa-tion to be tailored to individual preference.The usefulness of the first two sorts of informationis evident.
We Chose to include the third sort as wellbecause corpora seemed likely to be valuable in pro-viding examples more concretely and certainly moreextensively than other sources.
They may provide asense of collocation or even nuances of meaning.The realization of these design goals required ex-tensive knowledge bases about morphology and thelexicon.?
Most crucially, the morphological knowledgebase provides the link between the inflectedforms found in texts and the "citation forms"found in dictionaries (Sproat, 1992).
LEMMA-TIZATION recovers citation forms from inflectedforms and is a primary task of morphologicalanalysis.
A substantial morphological knowl-edge base is likewise necessary if one is to pro-vide information about the grammatical signif-icance of morphological information.The only effective means of providing such aknowledge base is through morphological nal-ysis software.
Even if one could imagine stor-ing all the inflected forms of a language such asFrench, the information associated with thoseforms is available today only from analysis oft-ware.
The software is needed to create the storeof information.Even apart from this: people occasionally cre-ate new words.
Analysis programs can provideinformation about these, since most are formedaccording to very general and regular morpho-logical processes.?
Obviously, the quality of the online dictionary isabsolutely essential.
The only feasible option isto use an existing dictionary.
Our investigativeuser study indicates that the dictionary is themost important factor in user satisfaction.?
The essential design questions vis-?-vis the cor-pus were (i) how large must the corpus be inorder to guarantee a high expectation that themost frequent words would be found; and (ii)what sort of access techniques are needed ona corpus of the requisite size--given that accessmust succeed within at most a very few seconds.We tried to use texts from a variety of genres,and we attempted (with some limited success)to find bilingual English-Bulgarian, English-Estonian and French-Dutch texts.2.1 Morpho log ica l  Analys isAs we have seen, morphological nalysis is necessaryif one wishes to access an online dictionary.
Sincebroad-coverage analysis packages represent very ma-jor development efforts, GLOSSER was fortunate inhaving use of Locolex, a state-of-the-art system fromRank Xerox (Bauer, Segond, and Zaenen, 1995).136A French example analysis (from Figure 2):?
a t te ign issent  asatt eindre+Subj I+PL+P3+FinV;The semi-regular form is recognized as a subjunc-tive, third-person plural finite form of the verb at-teindre.
The information about the stem (lemma)from the morphological parse enables a dictionarylookup, and the grammatical information is di-rectly useful.
Note that, in contrast to commer-cially available systems, the information is generatedautomatically--so that it is available on-line for anytext.But there are also examples of words which couldhave different grammatical meanings.
Locolex incor-porates a stochastic POS tagger which it employsto disambiguate.
In case Locolex is wrong (whichis possible, but quite unlikely), the user is free tospecify an alternative morphological nalysis, whichis then looed up in the dictionary and for which cor-pora examples are sought.2.2 D ic t ionaryGLOSSER was likewise fortunate in obtaining theuse of good online dictionaries: the Van Dale dictio-nary Hedendaags Frans (van Dale, 1993) is used forFrench-Dutch, and the Kernermann semi-bilingualdictionaries are used for mapping English to Bul-garian, Estonian, and Hungarian.
Only the Esto-nian version is complete.
Although there are nopaper versions of the latter available, (KernermannPublishing, 1993) demonstrates the basic concept forEnglish-Finnish.2.3 CorpusWe have relied on other projects, the ECI and MUL-TEXT for bilingual corpora, although this has in-volved some work in (re)aligning the texts.The results of disambiguation and morphologicalanalysis erve not only as input to dictionary lookupbut also to corpus search.
The current implementa-tion of this search uses a LEXEME-based index forrapid and varied access to the corpus.In order to determine the size of corpus needed,we experimented with a frequency list of the 10,000most frequent word forms.
A corpus of 2 MB con-tained 85% of these, and a corpus of 6 MB 100%.Our goal is 100% coverage of the words (lemmata)found in the 30,000-word ictionaries, and 1007ocoverage of the most frequent 20,000 words.
Thecurrent corpus size is 8 MB.As the corpus grows, the time for incrementalsearch likwise grows linearly.
When the averagesearch time grew to several seconds (on a 70 MIPSUNIX server), it became apparent hat some sortof indexing was needed.
This was implemented andis described in (van Slooten, 1995).
The indexedlookup is most satisfactory--not nly has the abso-lute time dropped an order of magnitude, but thetime appears to be constant when corpus size is var-ied between 1 and 10 MB.Lexeme-based search looks not only for furtheroccurrences of the same string, but also for inflec-tional variants of the word.
If the selected word islivre+Masc+SG+Noun, the search should find othertokens of this and also tokens of the plural forml ivres.
This is made possible by lemmatizing theentire corpus in a preprocessing step, and retainingthe results in an index of lemmata.
It is clear thatthis improves the chance of finding examples of agiven lexeme immensely.2.4 User  In ter faceThe text the user is reading is displayed in the mainwindow.
Each of the three sorts of information isdisplayed in separate windows: MORPHOLOGY, theresults of morphological nalysis; DICTIONARY, theFrench-Dutch dictionary entry; and EXAMPLES, theexamples of the word found in corpora search.
SeeFigure 2 for details.3 Using GlosserA pilot study involving 20 university-level studentsof French was conducted in Feb. 1996.
Half of thestudents used GLOSSER, and the other half a pa-per version of the same dictionary and all read thesame text and answered questions tested text com-prehension and satisfaction.
The time needed forthe task was also measured.
The results of this pilotstudy were encouraging: although the level of stu-dent was too high (Dutch foreign language studentshave a high level of proficiency), so that no differ-nces in comprehension were noted, the GLOSSERusers were faster, and reported enjoying the experi-ence and interested in using the system further.
Wehave just completed a more careful replication withmore students at a lower level of French proficiency,and the predictions of the pilot are borne out: thereare very significant differences in speed, insignificantadvantages in comprehension, and high overall sat-isfaction (Dokter et al, to appear 1997).4 Conc lus ionsGLOSSER was developed with the philosophy of ex-ploiting available NLP technology wherever possi-ble.
Morphological analysis (lemmatization) is ro-bust and accurate and more than up to the task137DE LA TERRE A LA LUNETrajet Direct en 97 Heures 20 Minutes?
par Jules VemeILE GUN-CLUBsueme f(~'r ale de,, I~tats-Unis, un nouveau club tr~s influvnttn~ la rifle de Bali/more, en ple~n Maryland.les Am~icains sutpas~rent ~i~gu l i~rement~s ,  ceivnce de la bali~dque.
Non que leurs urinesde l~fea ion,  m~is e l l~ offri~ent des dimen*ions?
rent par ?on~quent des port~es inconnues juglu'alors.tFedr] tS1 31ire bereiken -> geraken (tot), reiken (tot) 32-> halen, komen tot 0.2 taken -> treffen,3 fig.
taken -> treffen, kwetsen 1.1 ~ 70artslen 1.1 ~ un l iwe sur l 'armoire bij een boek opnun 6.2 ~ qn.
au bras iem.
in de arm treffen~c.
km.
met let~ raken 6.3 ~ qn.
duns se~lem.
in zijn overtuigingen k~enkenatteindre + Subjl + PL+ P3+ Pin V1972, la balar~e des ~roduits de laTI @tait encore exc~clentaJre.1980, le deficit utte~alait2 mill iards de dollars et, selon:aires ~ou~ces, labarre des 10 mil l iards a@t@ frar~hie en 1982.i.. ~'~'3 -" .';-r,'-.
:.--~ "~'~'.Europe~Union.
Esprit Annotmc~e.ut (French)Figure 2: USER INTERFACE GLOSSER.
On the left is a text in which in which information for the wordatteignissent has been requested; on the right, from the top are windows for dictionary (Van Dale), morpho-logical analysis (Rank Xerox) and examples in bilingual corpora.of supporting instructional software.
The text pro-cessing techniques employed in GLOSSER are notexotic, and likely robust enough to support quickaccess to corpora on the order of 10 MB in size.5 AcknowledgementsThe Copernicus program of the European com-mission supports the GLOSSER project in grant343.
The authors are site coordinators; the projecthas been conducted by them and other members,including Mariana Damova, Duco Dokter, MargitLangemets, Auke van Slooten, Petra Smit, MariaStambolieva, Tarmo Vaino and Ulle Viks.
Valuablecriticism has come from Poul Andersen, Susan Arm-strong and Serge Yablonsky.Re ferencesBauer, Daniel, Frederique Segond, and Annie Zae-nen.
1995.
LOCOLEX: Translation rolls off yourtongue.
In Proceedings of the conference of theACH-ALLC'95, Santa Barbara, USA.Dokter, Duco, John Nerbonne, Lily Schurcks-Grozeva, and Petra Smit.
to appear, 1997.Glosser-RuG: A user study.
In Arthur van Essen,Sake Jager, and John Nerbonne, editors, LanguageTeaching and Language Technology.
to appear inproceedings of conference to be held 28-9 Apr 97.Kernermann Publishing.
1993.
Password: EnglishDictionary for Speakers of Finnish.
Porvoo, Finn-land: Kernermann.Krashen, S .D.
1989.
We acquire vocabularyand spelling by reading: Additional evidence forthe input hypothesis.
Modern Language Journal,73(4):440-464.Nerbonne, John and Petra Smit.
1996.
GLOSSER-RuG--in support of reading.
In Proc.
of COLING'96, pages 830-35, Copenhagen.Sproat, Richard.
1992.
Morphology and Computa-tion.
Cambridge: MIT Press.Swaffar, Janet, Katherine Arens, and Heidi Byrnes.1991.
Reading for Meaning : an Integrated Ap-proach to Language Learning.
Englewood Cliffs,N.Y.
: Prentice Hall.van Dale.
1993.
Handwoordenboek Frans-Nederlands + Prisma, 2e druk.
Van Dale Lexi-cografie b.v.van Slooten, Auke.
1995.
Searching and quotingexamples of word-usage in french language cor-pus.
Technical report, Alfa-Informatica, Rijksuni-versiteit Groningen.138
