An Ef f ic ient  Two Stage  Approach  to Robust  LanguageIn terpretat ionCarolyn Penstein Ros~Carnegie Mellon UniversityBaker Hall 135FPittsburgh, PA 15213cprose@cs .cmu.edu1 IntroductionThe most basic task of a natural language interfaceis to map the user's utterance onto some meaningrepresentation which can then be used for furtherprocessing.
The three biggest challenges which con-tinue to stand in the way of accomplishing even thismost basic task are extragrammaticality, ambiguity,and recognition errors.
The system presented here,ROSE1: RObustness with Structural Evolution, re-pairs extragrammatical input in two stages.
Thefirst stage, Repair Hypothesis Formation, is respon-sible for assembling a set of hypotheses about themeaning of the ungrammatical utterance.
This stageis itself divided into two steps, Partial Parsing andCombination.
In the Combination step, the frag-ments from a partial parse are assembled into a setof meaning representation hypotheses.
In ROSE'ssecond stage, Interaction with the user, the systemgenerates a set of queries and then uses the user'sanswers to these queries to narrow down to a singlebest meaning representation hypothesis.2 Comparison to AlternativeApproachesRather than placing the full burden of robustness onthe parser itself, I argue that it is more economicalfor Partial Parsing and Combination to be separatesteps in the Hypothesis Formation stage.
Effortstowards solving the problem of extragrammatiealityhave primarily been in the direction of building flexi-ble parsers.
In principle, Minimum Distance Parsers(Lehman, 1989; Hipp, 1992) have the greatest flex-ibility.
They fit an extragrammatical sentence tothe parsing grammar through a series of insertions,deletions, and transpositions.
Since any string canbe mapped onto any other string through a seriesof insertions, deletions, and transpositions, this ap-proach makes it possible to perform any desired re-pair.
The underlying assumption behind the MDPapproach is that the analysis of the string which de-viates the least from the input string is most likely1ROSE is pronounced Rosd, like the wine.3to be the best analysis.
Thus, Minimum DistanceParsing appears to be a reasonable approach.In practice, however, Minimum Distance Parsinghas only been used successfully in very small andlimited domains.
Lehman's core grammar, describedin (Lehman, 1989), has on the order of 300 rules,and all of the inputs to her system can be assumedto be commands to a calendar program.
Hipp's Cir-cuit Fix-It Shop system, described in (Hipp, 1992),has a vocabulary of only 125 words and a grammarsize of only 500 rules.
Flexible parsing algorithmsintroduce a great deal of extra ambiguity.
This inturn may deem certain approaches impractical forsystems of realistic scale.
Therefore, an importantquestion one must ask is whether the MDP approachcan scale up to a larger system and/or domain.An example of a less powerful parsing algorithmis Lavie's GLR* skipping parser described in (Lavie,1995).
This parser is capable of skipping over anyportion of an input utterance that cannot be incor-porated into a grammatical nalysis and recover theanalysis of the largest grammatical subset of the ut-terance.
Partial analyses for skipped portions of theutterance are also returned by the parser.
Thus,whereas MDP considers insertions and transposi-tions in addition to deletions, GLR* only considersdeletions.
The weakness of this and other partialparsing approaches (Abney, 1997; Nord, 1997; Srini-vas et al, 1997; Federici, Montemagni, and Pirrelli,1997) is that part of the original meaning of the ut-terance may be thrown away with the portion(s) ofthe utterance which are skipped if only the analy-sis for the largest subset is returned, or part of theanalysis will be missing if the parser only attemptsto build a partial parse.
These less powerful algo-rithms trade coverage for speed.
The idea is to in-troduce nough flexibility to gain an acceptable l velof coverage at an acceptable computational expense.The goal behind ROSE and other two stage ap-proaches (Ehrlich and Hanrieder, 1997; Danieli andGerbino, 1995) is to increase the coverage possibleat a reasonable computational cost by introducinga post-processing repair stage, which constructs acomplete meaning representation out of the frag-ments of a partial parse.
Since the input to thesecond stage is a collection of partial parses, the ad-ditional flexibility that is introduced at this secondstage can be channeled just to the part of the anal-ysis that the parser does not have enough knowl-edge to handle straightforwardly.
This is unlike theMDP approach, where the full amount of flexibilityis unnecessarily applied to every part of the anal-ysis.
Therefore, this two stage process is more ef-ficient since the first stage is highly constrained bythe grammar and the results of this first stage arethen used to constrain the search in the second stage.Additionally, in cases where the limited flexibilityparser is sufficient, he second stage can be entirelybypassed, yielding an even greater savings in time.3 A S imple  ExampleThe heart of the ROSE approach is the Combi-nation Mechanism, a genetic programming (Koza,1992; Koza, 1994) environment in which programsare evolved which combine the fragments ofa partialparse into a complete meaning representation struc-ture.
I present a simple example in Figure 1 for thesake of clarity.
This should not be taken to be anindication of the full potential of this approach.Chunks:1.
Thursday((frame *simple-time)(day-of-week thursday))2.
I am out((frame *busy)(who ((frame *i))))Ideal Repair Hypothesis:(my-comb((frame *busy) (who ((frame *i))))((frame *simple-time) (day-of-week thursday))when)An Alternative Repair Hypothesis:(my-comb((frame *busy) (who ((frame *i))))((frame *simple-time) (day-of-week thursday))why)Result of Ideal Hypothesis:((frame *busy)(who ((frame *i)))(when ((frame *simple-time)(day-of-week thursday))))Figure 1: Combination ExampleThe ideal repair hypothesis for this example is one4that specifies that the temporal expression should beinserted into the when slot in the *busy frame.
Otherhypotheses are also evolved and tested as the geneticprogramming system runs, such as the alternativeexample included in Figure 1.
A fitness functionranks hypotheses, narrowing down on a small set.The final result is selected through interaction withthe user.ReferencesAbney, S. 1997.
Partial parsing via finite-state cas-cades.
In Proceedings of the Eight European Sum-mer School In Logic, Language and Information,Prague, Czech Republic.Danieli, M. and E. Gerbino.
1995.
Metrics for evalu-ating dialogue strategies in a spoken language sys-tem.
In Working Notes of the AAAI Spring Sym-posium on Empirical Methods in Discourse Inter-pretation and Generation.Ehrlich, U. and G. Hanrieder.
1997.
Robust speechparsing.
In Proceedings of the Eight EuropeanSummer School In Logic, Language and Informa-tion, Prague, Czech Republic.Federici, S., S. Montemagni, and V. Pirrelli.
1997.Shallow parsing and text chunking: a view on un-derspecification i  syntax.
In Proceedings of theEight European Summer School In Logic, Lan-guage and Information, Prague, Czech Republic.Hipp, D. R. 1992.
Design and Development ofSpoken Natural-Language Dialog Parsing Systems.Ph.D.
thesis, Dept.
of Computer Science, DukeUniversity.Koza, J.
1992.
Genetic Programming: On the Pro-gramming of Computers by Means of Natural Se-lection.
MIT Press.Koza, J.
1994.
Genetic Programming II.
MIT Press.Lavie, A.
1995.
A Grammar Based Robust ParserFor Spontaneous Speech.
Ph.D. thesis, School ofComputer Science, Carnegie Mellon University.Lehman, J .
F .
1989.
Adaptive Parsing: Self-Extending Natural Language Interfaces.
Ph.D.thesis, School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mel-lon University.
CMU-CS-89-191.Nord, G. Van.
1997.
Robist parsing with the head-corner parser.
In Proceedings of the Eight Euro-pean Summer School In Logic, Language and In-formation, Prague, Czech Republic.Srinivas, B., C. Doran, B. Hockey, and A. Joshi.1997.
An approach to robust partial parsing andevaluation metrics.
In Proceedings of the EightEuropean Summer School In Logic, Language andInformation, Prague, Czech Republic.
