Multilingual NameTag TMMultilingual Internet Surveillance SystemMultimedia Fusion SystemSRA I n te rnat iona l4300 Fair Lakes CourtFairfax, VA 22033703-502-1180 (tel)703-803-1793 (fax)h t tp : / /www.sra .com1 Mu l t i l i ngua l  NameTag TMSRA's Multilingual NameTag is name tagging-software that can handle multiple languages, includ-ing English, Japanese, Spanish, Chinese and Thai.It finds and disambiguates in texts the names of peo-ple, organizations, and places, as well as time andnumeric expressions with very high accuracy.
Thedesign of the system makes possible the dynamicrecognition of names: NameTag does not rely onlong lists of known names.
Instead, NameTag makesuse of a flexible pattern specification language toidentify novel names that have not been encounteredpreviously.
This makes maintenance and porting tonew domains very easy.
In addition, NameTag canrecognize and link variants of names in the samedocument automatically.
For instance, it can link"IBM" to "International Business Machines" and"President Clinton" to "Bill Clinton.
"NameTag incorporates a language-independentC++ pattern-matching engine along with thelanguage-specific lexical, pattern, and other re-sources necessary for each language.
The Japanese,Chinese, and Thai versions integrate word seg-reenters to deal with the challenges of these lan-guages.NameTag is an extremely fast and robust systemthat can be easily integrated with other applicationsthrough its API.
For example, it can be integratedwith an information retrieval system to improve re-trieval accuracy and with a machine translation sys-tem to prevent name translation mistakes.
Versionsare available for UNIX and Windows 95 and NTplatforms.2 Mul t i l i ngua l  In ternet  Surve i l l anceSystemThe Multilingual Internet Surveillance System usesSRA's NameTag, the powerful SQL capability of anRDBMS, and a Java-enhanced Web-based GUI toprovide an intelligent surveillance capability.
Thespecial features include:?
Built-in Java-based Web crawler: By usingthis built-in Web crawler, the user can choosekey WWW sites for surveillance.
It automat-ically retrieves Web documents for intelligentindexing.
The crawler has a built-in schedulerand make uses of multiple threads for the quick-est possible acquisition of documents.?
Concept -based  intell igent indexing byNameTag: SRA's NameTag indexes retrievedWeb documents and extracts the most impor-tant information, i.e.
the proper names.
In ad-dition, NameTag can be customized to identifycollections of other domain specific terms whichare of interest o a particular Internet surveil-lance system (e.g., financial, legal, medical ormilitary terms).+?
P ro -ac t ive  mon i to r ing  and alert capabili-ties: Using a variety of data mining techniques,the system can monitor daily activities on theInternet (what's new and hot today?)
and alertthe user to unusual activity as it is happening.?
Powerful SQL queries through an easy-to-use Web-based GUI: Once alerts go off, theuser can perform more in-depth analysis by re-trieving relevant information through the user-friendly GU\[.
Powerful SQL capability alongwith concept-based indexing ensures high pre-cision and time saving.?
Automated hyperl inking for intelligentbrowsing: Another way to analyze the infor-mation effectively isto browse texts by followinghyperlinks automatically created by the system.Hyperlinks are added for each proper name andcustom term found by NameTag.?
Multi l ingual capabil ity for monolingualspeakers: By incorporating multilingual ver-sions of NameTag and machine translationmodules, monolingual speakers can also re-trieve, browse, and analyze the content of for-eign language documents.The multilingual capability allows the user togather and assimilate information in foreign lan-31guages without further effort.
For example, by sim-ply clicking on one of the hyperlinks, the user canview a list of other articles in any language that con-tain the same term (either original and translated).By entering queries in English, the user can obtainall documents in any language that contain the En-glish terms or their translations.The Multilingual Internet Surveillance Systemprovides a truly unique way to analyze and discovernecessary information effectively and efficiently froma vast information repositories on the Internet.
Forexample, it can answer types of questions which can-not be asked of traditional search engines, such as"Which companies are mentioned along with Inter-net and Netscape?"
or "Which people are related tothe Shinshintou Party?
"In addition, the concept-based indexing allowshigh-precision search; the user can ask for docu-ments that contain "Dole," the former senator, in-stead of "Dole," the pineapple company.
In short,the system can eliminate most of the noise associatedwith traditional search engines and focus attentionon precisely the information of interest.The Web-based client runs on multiple platforms.The server currently runs on a SUN Solaris platform(other server ports are underway).time.
The data is segmented as it is received and canbe simultaneously stored and forwarded to viewerson the network.
The server also handles data inputthrough textual newswire feeds.The Web-based client runs on multiple platforms.The server currently runs on a SUN Solaris platform.Contact:Chinatsu Aone(technical)aonec@sra.comDave Conetsco(administrative)dave_conetsco@sra.com3 Mu l t imed ia  Fus ion  SystemThe Multimedia Fusion System (MMF) combines anautomated clustering algorithm with a summariza-tion module to automatically group multimedia in-formation by content and simultaneously determineconcise keyword summaries of each cluster.
MMFassists the user who must assimilate a vast amountof information from different sources quickly and ef-fectively.
As MMF generates clusters in an unsuper-vised fashion, i.e., no pre-defined user profile needbe used, the system can adapt to new and changingworld events with no extra effort.Specifically, the system takes newspaper articlesand CNN Headline News, and creates a hierarchi-cal cluster tree in which related stories are clusteredtogether at tree nodes regardless of their sources.MMF consists of four main components: keywordselection, document clustering, cluster summariza-tion, and cluster display.
The resulting cluster treeis visualized in a Java-based interactive GUI.
Theuser can follow a cluster tree hierarchy and expandclusters all the way down to individual documents.For newspaper articles, the text is shown while forCNN Headline News, both the closed-captioned textand the captured video are displayed in-line with abrowser plug-in.
Each displayed cluster also has itsconcise keyword summary next to the correspondingtree node.In addition to its clustering capabilities, the MMFserver is also responsible for capturing video, audio,and closed-captions from a live satellite feed in real32
