An Interactive Translation Support Facilityfor Non-Professional UsersYAMABANA K iyosh i ,  MURAKI  Kazunor i ,  KAMEI  Sh in - i ch i ro ,SATOH Ken j i ,  DOI  Sh in ich i ,  TAMURA Sh inkoIn format ion Technology Research Laborator iesNEC Corporat ionMiyazaki  4-1-1, Miyamae-ku,  Kawasaki  216, JAPAN{yamabana, k-muraki, kamei, satoh, doi, shinko}~hum.cl.nec.co.jpAbst rac tWe present an interactive translationmethod to support non-professional usersto write an original document.
Themethod, combining dictionary lookup func-tion and user-guided stepwise interactivemachine translation, allows the user to ob-tain clear result with an easy operation.We implemented the method as an Englishwriting support facility that serves as atranslation support front-end to an arbi-trary application.1 In t roduct ionWith the steady decrease of network communica-tion cost and equipment prices, world-wide com-puter networks and the number of its users aregrowing very rapidly.
However, there is a largeobstacle against global communication over net-works, namely the language barrier, especially fornon English-speaking people.
This is a major reasonpersonal EJ (English to Japanese) machine transla-tion systems are gaining popularity in Japan.
Theyhelp the user to quickly grasp the content of webpages, by providing rough translation.
Since speedand lexical coverage are most important require-ments, conventional utomatic machine translationsystems developed so far are useful for this purpose.Contrary to the EJ direction, the major task in JE(Japanese to English) direction will be writing shortoriginal documents, uch as e-mail.
The most impor-tant requirement will be translation quality, becausethe reader is usually different from the MT user.To control quality, some kind of human interactionwill be inevitable.
However, interactive support forconventional MT systems doesn't seem suitable forthese users, since they are primarily intended forprofessional translators.
Their post-editing functionoften requires working in a special environment thatrequires special training.
An interactive, easy-to-use translation support facility, targeted for non-professional translators, is desirable.We may expect hat these users have basic knowl-edge and ability to read and understand English.This expectation is natural and realistic in a coun-try like Japan, where all high-school graduates aresupposed to have completed six year course in En-glish.
Their reading skill and grammar knowledge isusually enough to judge the quality of current MTsystems, but they may need help from MT systemswhen browsing the Internet.
For the JE direction,they will not be satisfied with the raw output of con-ventional MT systems, but it will be too laboriousto write down English sentence from scratch.
Forthese users, online dictionaries have been used be-cause of the reliability of the result.
However, inspite of abundant information within the dictionarysuch as inflection, verbal case frame, idioms and soon, the only electronically available part is spellingof translation equivalents (through copy & paste).Other information is only presented to be read as inthe case of a paper dictionary, with all further workleft to the user.In this article, we present an interactive trans-lation method and its implementation, which hasadvantages of both a dictionary look-up tool and amachine translation system.
The system has an in-teractive interface similar to Kana-Kanji conversionmethod, and initially serves as a dictionary look-up tool.
After dictionary lookup, the user can in-voke syntactic transformation in terms of grammat-ical information in the dictionary.
Syntactic trans-formation proceeds tep by step in a bottom-upmanner, combining smaller translation componentsinto larger ones.
This "dictionary-based interactivetranslation" approach allows the user to fully utilizesyntactic information in the dictionary while main-taining clarity of the result.In the next section, we give a simple example oftranslation steps and provide a general idea of themethod.
In section 3, we describe the basic modeland associated operations.
Section 4 gives further324explanation about disambiguation capability of theinteractive operations.
Section 5 discusses exten-sions to the basic model to treat linguistic phenom-ena such as idiomatic expressions.
Section 6 de-scribes the current implementation asa front-end toan arbitrary application.
In section 7, the method iscompared with former approaches.
The final sectionis the conclusion.2 An  ExampleIn this section we show the basic steps of simplesentence translation, in order to give a general ideaabout how the method works.Consider a situation where the user is writing amessage in English, using an editor of a mail pro-gram.
Our system is running as a daemon.
Whilethe user is typing English characters, the systemdoes nothing special and let them through to theeditor window.
The system wakes up when the usertoggles on Japanese input.
The moment the firstJapanese character is typed in, the main translationwindow is opened, and all subsequent characters aretyped in to that window instead of the editor win-dow.Suppose the input sentence is one shown in fig-ure 1 (a).
As soon as (a) is entered, the dictionarylook-up function is invoked automatically.
A mor-phological analyzer recognizes word boundaries inthe sentence, looks up corresponding word entries inthe system dictionary, and shows the result in themain window (b).
1 Content words are replaced by atranslation equivalent assumed most plausible, whilefunctional words are left unchanged.This representation step, in which English words(content words) and Japanese words (functionalwords) are mixed, separates teps for word trans-lation .and later syntactic transformation, makingtranslation steps clearer.
Since word order and func-tional words carrying grammatical functions are un-changed, the user can easily recognize the skeleton ofthe sentence, and clearly grasp the correspondencebetween the original word and its translation equiv-alent.
This representation is not only to show the re-sults of dictionary look-up like (Canisius, 1977), butalso carries all interactive operations of the methodwith it, and has a double role of showing informationand being objects of interactive manipulation.Translation equivalent alternatives for the cursorposition word (focus word) are displayed in an alter-natives window, appearing nearby that word.
Fig-ure 2 is a snapshot of the alternatives window forronbun (paper).
The second line is highlighted toshow that it is the current selection.
The user can1Slanted words show romaji transcription of respec-tive Japanese words.
They don't appear on a realwindow.
(a) ~?
t~ ~ tc ~ ~?
~b tcwatash i  -wa  kare  -n i  ronbun -o  watash i  -taI TOP  he DAT paper  OBJ  give PAST(b) I ~: he i:- paper ~ give ~v.-wa  -h i  -o  -ta(c) I gave him a paperFigure 1: Translation of a simple sentenceronbunpaper \[noun\] \ [ typical  wordthesis \[noun\] \[for degree\]essay \[noun\] \[general\]dissertation \[noun\] \[for degree\]Figure 2: Alternatives Window for ronbunchange the selection simply by a cursor movement ormouse click on this window, then the correspondingtranslation equivalent on the main window changessynchronously.
To see alternatives for another word,the user has only to move the cursor to that word onthe main window.
There is also a CD-ROM dictio-nary access function, making translation equivalentselection easier.
In addition, the user can change aninflection in a similar manner on an inflection selec-tion window, opened by the user's request.If the user needs only the result of dictionarylookup, s/he can signal the end of translation at thispoint, just after choosing the translation equivalent.If a translation is necessary, the user needs to go onemore step.
At the same time as initial translationequivalent selection, the system predicts an appro-priate area for translation, as shown by an underline(b).
Just as the translation equivalent selection canbe freely changed, the area can be changed by drag-ging the left or right edge of the underline.
Afterthe user confirms selections of translation equiva-lents and translation area on (b), the user invokestranslation.
The system performs syntactic trans-formation using syntactic information in the dictio-nary such as the verbal case frame of the main verbin the area, shows the result on the main window,and replaces the original sentence with the result(c).
When there is more than one possible transla-tion, the different possibilities are shown in an al-ternatives window similar to figure 2, allowing theuser to change the choice.
When the user triggerstranslation end, the result is sent to the original ed-itor window.
The user can continue to work in theeditor after turning off Japanese input.3 Descr ip t ion  of  the  MethodMost important characteristics of this interactivetranslation method is that the Japanese input is con-verted to English in several steps allowing user inter-action at each step.
In intermediate steps, a mixture325of target language expression and source languageexpression are shown to give the current status of theinteractive translation.
Translation proceeds from asmaller unit as word to a larger unit as sentence, stepby step in a bottom-up manner.
The result can bechecked and corrected at each step, making it easierto obtain a desired result.
Interactive operations aresimilar to those of Kana-Kanji conversion, althoughthey are further extended to be capable of control-ling syntactic transformations.
We first describe thebasic model that determines the scope and timing ofinteraction, then the set of interactive operations.3.1 Bas ic  Mode lThe basic model of our method is the syntax-directed translation scheme with bottom-up at-tribute evaluation (see chapter 5 of (Aho et al,1986)).
In this scheme, an attribute of a syntax treenode is calculated from that of the children nodesby a semantic rule, associated with the syntax ruleused to build the node from children.
Attributesrepresent partial translation result for the structurebelow the node, and attribute calculation proceedsfrom the lexical nodes to the root node in a bottom-up manner.Interactivity is integrated with this model by al-lowing interactive operation when attribute is cal-culated at each node.
Before each calculation, thesystem pauses to show an interpretation of the un-derlying structure, and allows the user to examineand change it if necessary.
When interaction is fin-ished, the system chooses a next node and pausesthere.
This process repeats until the system reachesthe root node.
Any translation method can be usedas long as it is compatible with this general scheme.Although basic model is as described, it is appar-ently too bothersome to give an operation at everynode.
In addition, some nodes only have a formalrole in the grammar, and are not meaningful to theuser.
For this reason, the nodes at which the systemautomatically pauses for interaction are restricted tothe node marked as a sentence, and the node thatdominates a relative clause and its antecedent: inshort, just restricted to contain one predicate.
Weremark that this restriction is effective only on de-fault decision of which node to pause at, and doesnot restrict operations by the user.
The system looksfor a minimal node marked as above, then pauses foruser operation.
At this time, attributes of the focusnode and lower nodes are still undetermined exceptfor lexical nodes.
When the user triggers translation,undetermined attributes are calculated, then the re-sult replaces the tree under the focus node.
Thatnode serves as a kind of lexical node in subsequenttranslation.3.2 Interactive OperationsThe basic interaction model of the method is thatthe system shows current interpretation i the formof translation equivalents and translation area, whilethe user responds to it by changing these initial se-lections.
This set of operations is essentially thesame as the Kana-Kanji conversion method, and itsobvious advantage is that everybody who can useKana-Kanji conversion is expected to be well accus-tomed to these operations.When the system pauses for interaction, it showsinitial selection of translation equivalents and trans-lation area, as in figure 1 (b).
Translation equivalentselection for all content words, and the designatedregion to be translated next, is shown in a compactmanner, allowing the user to examine and changethem before translation.
This mixed representationlevel of the source and target language expressionserves as a playground for all subsequent interac-tions.After confirming all selections, the user triggerstranslation.
Then the original area is replaced withresulting English expression.
If there are more thanone possible translation, the system presents themin a similar window as alternatives window as in fig-ure 2, and the user is allowed to change the system'sselection by the same interface as translation equiv-alent selection.Translation equivalent selection enables the userto directly manipulate target language expression.Selecting before translation is much easier than aftertranslation, because the word order and understoodsyntactic structure is that of the user's native lan-guage.
The meaning of translation area selection isalso clear.
The user should choose the area so thatit contains necessary and sufficient words to be onemeaningful expression.
Technically, it is bracketingby the user.
If the user changes the area, the systemchanges the analysis according to the new constraint.Further disambiguation capability of this operationwill be discussed in section 4.Other possible interactive operations include edit-ing and undoing the translation.
The user can freelymodify the displayed characters at any time, and thesystem responds by invoking an appropriate proce-dure, such as morphological nalysis.
Also, the usercan go back to any former steps by canceling formertranslations.All these operations are optional, except for trans-lation triggers to invoke next translation.
Theamount of interaction and timing of translation trig-ger is completely up to the user, and s/he can evenproceed without any modification to the system'sinitial choice.Steps of interactive translation can be summarizedas below.3261.
Type in the sentence.2.
Repeat until whole sentence is translated.
(a) Translation equivalent selectionand translation area are shown.
(b) Confirm all the selections areright.
Change them if necessary.
(c) Trigger translation.3.
Signal the end of translation.3.3 ExamplesNext we turn to more complex examples, and showhow more than one translation units are combined.3.3.1 A Relative ClauseFigure 3 shows translation steps for a sentencewith a relative clause.
This sentence has a depen-dency ambiguity, so we also show how to resolveit through interaction.
The original sentence (a)contains a relative clause with verb kau (buy) withan antecedent hen (book).
Since Japanese is head-final, the sentence-initial case element kare-ga (he-SUB J) can be the subject of either kau (buy) oryomu (read), causing syntactic ambiguity.First, let's suppose kare-ga is assumed to be thesubject of the relative clause by the system.
Thenthe system pauses howing (b), as soon as (a) is in-put.
In (b), the translation region is assumed tobe "he-ga buy-ta book".
After translation trigger,the system pauses showing (c).
Please note thatthe underlined part in (b) is replaced by its equiva-lent English expression "the book he bought", andthe whole sentence is underlined now.
After anothertranslation trigger, (d) is obtained, with missing sub-ject filled by some default word.Suppose after obtaining (d) the user noticed thatthis interpretation is not what s/he wants, and thecase element kare-ga should be the subject of theverb of the matrix sentence.
Then the user triggersundo of translation twice, returning to (b).
Thens/he notice that "he -ga buy -ta book" is treatedas one phrase, against his/her interpretation.
Thens/he changes the underlined area to "buy -ta book",excluding "he -ga" from the region (e), because thisis the "correct meaningful phrase" in the user's in-terpretation.
After translation trigger, (f) follows.Note that the subject of the relative clause is supple-mented by a default element.
Then (g), the desiredresult, follows.Generally, if two syntax tree nodes share a childleaf node, one is an ancestor of the other.
Thisproperty guarantees that two overlapping transla-tion units can always be combined in our stepwisebottom-up translation method.3.3.2 A ConjunctionFigure 4 shows translation steps for two sentencesjoined by a subordinate conjunct node (because).kate -ga kat -ta hen -o yon -dahe SUBJ  buy PAST book OBJ  read PAST(b) he 75~ buy fz book ,~ read fg-ga - ta  -o -da(c) the book he bought ~ read 7b:-o -da?
(d) Someone read the book he bought(e) he ~ buy ft. book ~ read fc:-ga - ta  -o -da(f) he ;0; the book someone bought ~ read Fd"-ga -o -da(g) He read the book someone boughtFigure 3: Relative Clause and Syntactic Ambiguitykanojo -ga ki -ta -node watash i -washe SUBJ  come PAST because I TOP(b) she ~ come f~.
?
)'~I ~$ glad-ga -ta -node -wa(c) Shecame ?
'~I  ~ glad-node -wa(d) She came ?
)'~ I am glad-nodeie) I am glad because she cameureshHgladFigure 4: Treatment of ConjunctionComponent sentences are translated first (c, d), thenthey are combined to produce a complex sentence.Here "because" is assumed to be the first alternativeas translation equivalent for node.4 More  on  In teract ive  Operat ionsThe selection of an equivalent translation is morethan simply choosing among synonyms, as shown in(Yamabana et al, 1995).
First, part-of-speech oftranslation equivalent may be specified through thisoperation, since translation equivalents with differ-ent part-of-speech appear distinctly in the alterna-tives window.
Second, the translation equivalent forfunctional words can be specified, which can affectthe syntactic structure of the result.
Although func-tional words remain unchanged in the intermediaterepresentation, some words provide an alternativeswindow when the cursor is placed on them.
Third,a whole unit with more than one word can be de-tected and selected in the same interface as transla-tion equivalent for a single word.An example for the first and second point is foundin a translation equivalent set for an auxiliary rareru,which is known to be highly ambiguous.
Even af-ter leaving aside less frequent "spontaneity" usageand indirect passivization, there are still at leastthree general interpretations: direct passivization,possibility, and honorific.
Automatic disambigua-tion requires detailed semantic information, espe-cially when some case elements are missing or hid-den.327rarerube -edCanpossiblyit is possible thatbe able to\[auxiliary\]\[adverb\]\[adjective\]\[adjective\]\[passive\]\[honorific\]\[capable\]\[capable\]\[capable\]\[capable\]Figure 5: Alternatives Window for rareru(a) SL I~ ~ ~ ~g ~ ~2 ?
~: l~:~z~watashi  -wa kare -ga hon -o yomu -no -o tasukeruI TOP  he SUBJbookOBJ  read COMPOBJ  help(b) I I~ he ;0~ book ~ read ?
~ help-w& -ga  -wo -no  -wo(c) I ~:~ he reads a book ~ help-Wa -0(d) I help him to read a bookFigure 6: Change of Generation StyleFigure 5 shows the content of the translationequivalent alternatives window for rareru.
It ap-pears when the cursor is placed on that word.
If "be-ed" is chosen, the auxiliary is interpreted as a pas-sive morpheme and treated as such in translation.
Ifthe second alternative is chosen, it is interpreted ashonorific.
In this case, as the translation equivalentis shown as a blank, no morpheme appears in thetranslation.
By choosing the third alternative, it istranslated to an auxiliary "can", showing capability.The fourth morpheme translates it to "possibly", anadverb.
By choosing the fifth alternative, the usercan specify the result to be a complement of an ad-jective "possible".
A tree for the structure "it is pos-sible that",  coded in the dictionary, is synthesized inthe generation module.The third point will be discussed in section 5.2.5 Extens ion  f rom Bas ic  Mode lAs explained in section 3.1, the method basically as-sumes simple compositionaiity of translation.
How-ever, this assumption apparently needs modificationto be applied to broader phenomena.
There aretwo major sources of violation.
One is inheritedattributes, corresponding to constraints posed byhigher nodes to lower ones.
Another is idiosyncraticviolation of compositionality assumption, such as id-iomatic expressions.
In this section we describe howthe basic model is extended to treat phenomena thatviolates this assumption.5.1 Constraints from Higher NodesOne obvious example of this type of violation is in-flection.
It is not an intrinsic property of a word, buta constraint by dominating or governing element.For this reason, its calculation is delayed until thelast phase of generation, when all information aregathered at the lexical node.
In addition, inflec-tion are re-calculated in every translation, even ifthe translation of that word has been already fixedby a former translation.Another example is constraint posed by a verbsubcategorization frame to subordinate lements.Although syntactic ases can be processed by inflec-tion mechanism, constraint of sentence styles, suchas to-infinitive or gerund, can not be treated in asimilar manner.
Since the sentence is a default paus-ing node, subcategorized sentence usually is alreadyfixed as a finite form before the constraint is ap-plied.
To cope with this problem, we provide abookkeeping mechanism that preserves all partialsyntax trees generated uring translation.
Whensome grammatical constraint is newly introduced onan already translated expression, and if it requiresstructural deformation, the system looks for the reg-istered structure and generates it again so that itmeets the new constraint.Figure 6 shows steps to obtain a sentence with anembedded clause "I help him to read a book".
Assoon as the original sentence (a) is entered, transla-tion equivalent selection and translation region se-lection is presented (b).
The first region is the com-plement sentence "he ga book wo read nd' ,  whereno is a complement marker.
After translation, (c) isobtained.
Then whole sentence is assumed to be thetranslation region, and (d) is obtained finally.
Pleasenote the change in the embedded sentence from a fi-nite form "he read a book" in (c) to an to-infinitiveform "him to read a book" in (d), in accordancewith the grammatical constraint posed by the verb"help".5.2 Idiomatic ExpressionThere are some sets of words that acquire specialsyntactic/semantic behavior when appearing simul-taneously.
These idiomatic expressions are anothermajor source that violates the compositionaiity as-sumption of the method.
Hereafter, the word "id-iomatic expression" is used in a rather broad sense:if translation of a combination of words is not pre-dictable from their individual behavior, we call it anidiomatic expression.In one case, cooccurring words determines trans-lations of one another, even though their mean-ing can be understood compositionally.
For exam-ple, renraku-wo toru (contact-OBJ take) should betranslated to "make a contact", not "take a con-tact" nor "get a contact".
In another case, the wholeexpression can turn into completely another mean-ing.
For example, ashi-wo arau (foot-OBJ wash)328can be interpreted as either "wash (one's) foot" or"wash one's hands", the latter case losing the orig-inal meaning of respective words.
Although theseidiomatic expressions must be recognized and trans-lated as one thing, they cannot be registered as oneword in the dictionary, since their elements can ap-pear in a distant position, or they can also have apurely compositional interpretation.To cope with this problem, we extended the trans-lation equivalent selection interface so that transla-tion equivalents can be specified as a set for theseexpressions.
Translation equivalent for the compo-nent words of an idiomatic expression changes yn-chronously when one of them is altered.
Also, weexpanded the dictionary and morphological nalyzerto allow such multi-word translation unit correspon-dence.We give an example with denwa-wo kakeru, anequivalent expression for "make a phone call".
Thisis idiomatic because the correspondence betweenkakeru and "make" is peculiar to this interpreta-tion.
When the expression denwa-wo kakeru is en-tered, the morphological nalyzer ecognizes it as anidiomatic expression and retrieves information fromthe idiom dictionary.
Figure 7 is a snapshot of al-ternatives window for "kakeru", in the idiomatic in-terpretation.
The second line is highlighted as thecurrent selection.
The leftmost word "make" showsthat the current ranslation equivalent for "kakeru",and the third column shows the current ranslationequivalent for the whole expression is "make a phonecall", an idiomatic interpretation.
The alternativeswindow for "denwa" is shown in Figure 8.
Here, theword "phone call" is highlighted corresponding tothe interpretation as "make a phone call".
When theuser triggers translation, denwa becomes "a phonecall", kakeru becomes "make", producing "make aphone call" in whole.If the user changes the selection to another alter-native, say "telephone" at the third line in the al-ternatives window kakeru, then the selection in thealternatives window denwa also changes to the thirdline synchronously.
Translation of denwa as denwashows this word will simply vanish after translation.Then the translation of whole expression becomesan one word verb phrase "telephone".At the first line of both alternatives window,the whole original Japanese expression is shown,with a slash at the boundaries of words, likedenwa/wo/kakeru.
This alternative allows the userto switch from idiomatic interpretation to non-idiomatic interpretation.
If the user chooses this al-ternative, a new alternatives window containing lit-eral translation appears as in figure 9.
At the sametime the alternatives window for denwa changes andshows literal translations for denwa.
The user candenwa/wo/kakerumake \[verb\] \[make a phone call\]telephone \[verb\] \[telephone\]call \[verb\] \[call up\]Figure 7: Alternatives for kakeru as an Idiomdenwa/wo/kakeruphone call \[countable\] \[make a phone call\]denwa \[telephone\]denwa \[call up\]Figure 8: Alternatives for denwa as an Idiomgo back to the idiomatic interpretation by choosingthe alternative denwa+wo+kakeru, at the last lineof these alternatives windows.We remark that this mechanism provides a generalmeans to treat translation unit with more than onecomponent word.6 ImplementationThe method is realized as an English writing supportsoftware on personal computers.
The main functionis divided into two modules, the interface moduleand the translation module.
The interface moduleis in charge of user interaction, morphological naly-sis and predicting translation equivalent and region,as well as function as a front-end.
The translationmodule performs translation of the specified region,obeying user specification passed by the interfacemodule.
The most important requirement for thetranslation module is robustness, in the sense thatit doesn't drop a word even when specifications arecontradictory.
In that case, the system should serveas a simple online dictionary.A prominent feature is added in this implementa-tion: it works as a language conversion front-end toan arbitrary application.
The system is placed be-tween the keyboard and an application in the dataflow.
It captures Japanese input before they are en-tered to an application, converts it into English, andthen sends the result to the application (figure 10).kakeruhang \[verb\]put \[verb\]denwa+wo+kakeruFigure 9: Alternatives for kakeru in literal interpre-tation329Any Applications (Mail, Word Processors, etc.
)tInteractive JE ConversiontAny Kana-Kanji Conversion ProgramtKeyboardFigure 10: Relation to Other ProgramsThis function is realized using a standard hook andIME API of the operating system, Microsoft Win-dows 95.
This feature allows this system used as anadd-on function of any application, enabling the userto work in a familiar document writing environment.The system dictionary contains about 100,000Japanese ntries and 15,000 idiomatic expressions.Since there was no source available to build an id-iom dictionary of this size, they were collected man-ually from scratch following a method described in(Tamura et al, 1996).
The essence of this methodis limiting search space utilizing distinguished wordclasses characteristic to idiomatic expressions, re-vealed by an intensive analysis of these expressions.A CD-ROM online dictionary accessing functionis also provided to help user's translation equivalentselection.This software is currently available either as apackage software or a pre-installed software on per-sonal computers.7 DiscussionInteractive method in machine translation have beenpursued by many people (Kay, 1973; Melby et al,1980; Tomita, 1984; Huang, 1990; Somerset al,1990a; Boitet et al, 1995).
In these approaches, thesystem asks a set of questions to the user to resolveambiguities not solvable by itself.
Among problemsof this approach are, as Melby pointed out, exces-sive interaction and necessity for special training forinteractive operations.In our method, interactive operations are initi-ated and guided by the user and all interactive op-erations are optional, except for a small number oftranslation triggers needed for translating compo-nent sentences.
The system provides its predictionas a default selection, and other possibilities as sec-ond or third choices, but the user is free to obey orignore them.
If the selection is wrong, the transla-tion result becomes wrong, which is a feedback tothe user.
Then the user can undo the translation,correct selections, and try again (for example, seefigure 3).
On the other hand, the user has only torepeat "next" i~struction to obtain a result of au-tomatic translation quality.
Frequency and contentof interaction are determined by the user.
In thismanner, the user and the system are essentially co-operative, avoiding the problem of excessive ques-tioning by the system.
The problem of difficulty inlearning interactive operations i also avoided sinceour interactions are essentially those of simple Kana-Kanji conversion operations.
We believe an averageuser can easily learn operations of our system.An interactive dependency parser reported in(Maruyama et al, 1990), is based on an interfacelike Kana-Kanji conversion, and shares character-istics described above 2.
However, their method islimited to syntactic dependency disambiguation byexplicitly specifying the words in the dependency re-lation, and it is difficult to expand the method tohandle the types of ambiguity discussed in this pa-per.A user-driven approach to interactive translation,proposed by (Somerset al, 1990b), is based on cutand paste operations, where the content of copybuffer is translated when it is pasted.
This methodseems to leave too much burden to the user, sincethe user must explicitly specify which portions of thetext Should be translated, and in what order.
Alsoit is not clear how to combine partial translations oftwo overlapping expressions, except for direct edit-ing.Our stepwise conversion scheme, in which conver-sion proceeds from smaller structures to larger ones,is a natural conclusion of our try-and-error-basedconversion approach.
As Melby says, a post-editorwill only improve by a certain increment: if the re-sult is completely wrong, s/he will simply abandonthe whole result.
Since it is easier to obtain an ap-propriate result for a shorter and simpler structure,a result obtained by stepwise conversion tends to beof better quality than a result obtained by translat-ing the whole structure at one step.
In other words,our system divides the translation step into smallerpieces, and allows post-editing at every step.As described before, target users of our methodare those who have basic knowledge to read and un-derstand the target language.
According to the tar-get language skill of the user, useful support func-tion will be different.
For example, for a user whois competent in English, our system will be usefulas an online dictionary.
While writing in English,the user can look up the system dictionary only byentering a Japanese word.
Then s/he can enjoy easy-to-use interactive operations for translation equiva-lent selection, inflection selection and CD-ROM die-tionary access.
When the user find an appropriateword, s/he only has to push the return key to enterthe word into the original application.
These users2These characteristics are inherited essentially from aKana-Kanji conversion i terface.330will also find it useful to obtain a translation equiv-alent expression for an idiomatic expression.
Theseidiomatic expressions, either of source language ortarget language, are hard to translate since they donot allow literal translation and difficult to find inother dictionaries.
By combining this idiom dictio-nary and translation function, the user can obtain auseful skeleton for target language expression.
Formany users, however, the translation function will beconsidered helpful to produce a result of the qualitylevel that matches their English reading skill.
Suit-able usage will be balanced between the user's skilland the capability of the system.The function as an add-on function to an arbitrarysoftware will be an advantage qually for all users,enabling them to work in their familiar environment,compared to conventional machine-aided translationsystems that force them to work in an independentunfamiliar environment.Finally we discuss some remaining problems anddirection of further work.Translation quality needs continuous effort for im-provement, in both linguistic coverage and preci-sion.
Precision of initial prediction of translationequivalent and translation area is crucial to the per-formance of the system, since they determine thequality of default translation.
In our experience, theusers are willing to use interactive operation to im-prove translation quality, but never to recover fromincomprehensible output.We also have to mention some ambiguities difficultto resolve though basic operations of the method.An example is grammatical relation ambiguity be-tween a case element and a verb, when the casemarker is hidden.
Generally, the system treats thesecases by producing all possibilities in the order of pri-ority and allowing the user to choose one.
However,when such ambiguities are multiplied, the numberof possibilities easily grows large, making selectiondifficult.
One possible solution would be to pro-vide more disambiguation information, possibly asequence of dialogues, to help the user to make de-cision.
An important requirement here is that thesedialogues must not force a response.
The user shouldbe able to ignore them unless they want to.Another further work is expanding the dictionary,especially idiomatic expressions.
We are also plan-ning to add translation examples to the knowledgebase, so that translation can be performed eitherusing grammars or examples in the knowledge base.These examples are effective to guarantee correct-ness of the result, hence will be useful even for usersnot very familiar in the target language.
In this di-rection, our system would be expanded as a kind ofinteractive xample-based translation support sys-tem.8 Conclus ionWe presented an interactive machine-aided trans-lation method to support writing in a foreign lan-guage, which is a combination of dictionary lookupand interactive machine translation.
The transla-t ion proceeds as a cooperative process between thesystem and the user, through interactive operationssimilar to Kana-Kanji  conversion method.
We im-plemented the method as a front-end language con-version software to an arbitrary application.ReferencesAho, A. et al 1986.
Compilers.
Principles, Techniques,and Tools.
Addison-Wesley Publishing.Boitet, C. et al 1995.
Multilingual Dialogue-BasedMT for Monolingual Authors: the LIDIA Project anda First Mockup.
In Machine Translation, vol.9(2),pages 99-132.Canisius, P. 1977.
Automatic Partial Translation ina Multilingual Information System.
In Overcomingthe Language Barrier (Third European Congress onInformation Systems and Networks), vol.1, pages 259-269.Huang, X.
1990.
A Machine Translation System forthe Target Language Inexpert.
In Proceedings ofCOLING-90, pages 364-367.Kay, M. 1973.
The MIND System.
In Natural LanguageProcessing, Algorithmic Press.Maruyama, H. et al 1990.
An Interactive JapaneseParser for Machine Translation.
In Proceedings ofCOLING-90, pages 257-262.Melby, A. et al 1980.
ITS: Interactive Translation Sys-tem.
In Proceedings of COLING-80, pages 424-429.Muraki, K. et al 1994.
TWP: How to assist English pro-duction on Japanese word processor.
In Proceedingsof COLING-94, pages 283-298.Somers, H. et al 1990a.
Machine Translation withouta source text.
In Proceedings of COLING-90, pages271-276.Somers, H. et al 1990b.
A user-driven interac-tive machine translation system.
In Proceedings ofSICONLP-90, pages 140-143.Tamura, S. et al 1996.
Collecting of Verbal Id-iomatic Expressions and Development of a Large Dic-tionary for Japanese-to-English Machine Translation.
(In Japanese) In Proceedings o\] 2nd Annual Conven-tion of Association for NLP, pages 45-48.Tomita, M. 1984.
Disambiguating rammaticallyambiguous entences by asking.
In Proceedings ofCOLING-84, pages 476-480.Yamabana, K. et al 1995.
Interactive machine-aidedtranslation reconsidered --Interactive disambiguationin TWP- -  In Proceedings of NLPRS-95, pages 368-373331
