An Eng l i sh  Grammar  Checker  as a Wr i t ing  A idfor S tudents  of  Eng l i sh  as a Second LanguageJ ong  C.  Park  1, Mar tha  Pa lmer  1, and C lay  Washburn  21 Computer  & In format ion  ScienceUn ivers i ty  of Pennsy lvan ia ,  PA 19104{park  ,mpa lmer}?l inc .
c i s .
upenn,  edu2 Engl ish Language ProgramsUn ivers i ty  of Pennsylvania.
,  PA 19104gwashbur@sas, upenn, edu1 I n t roduct ionWe present a prototype grammar checker for En-glish as a Second Language (ESL) students, utilizingCombinatory Categorial Grammar (CCG) written inSICStus Prolog.
Instead of attempting to handle allpossible grammatical errors, the grammar checkeridentifies certain specific types of grammatical mis-takes that appear more regularly than others in thepresent domain of application.2 Grammat ica l  M is takesThe current project started as part of a collabora-tion between the Computer and Information Sciencedepartment and the English Language Programs atthe University of Pennsylvania n an effort to providea computational tool for students who are learningEnglish as a second language.
As an initial attempt,the present implementation focuses on certain dom-inant types of syntactic mistakes, as identified fromthe available set of students' essays.The kind of mistakes that are detected by thecurrent system includes: Wrong capitalization (sen-tence initial, wrong lowercase/uppercase initial let-ter), missing fragments (subjects, objects, someprepositions, complements, articles, clauses, the,than, ere), some extra elements (e.g., the infini-tive marker after auxiliary verbs), wrong agreement(number, case, etc), wrong verb form, and variousmismatches (verb tense with adverbs, etc).3 Gra ln lnar  Formal i smIn order to handle ungrammatical expressions aswell as grammaticM ones, we utilized the syntac-tic domain of locality implicit in categorial exi-ca l entries under the CCG framework, by includ-ing known variations of categorial association in thelexical entries.
Multiple parts-of-speech are handledby putting all the assertions regarding rammaticalparts-of-speech before those regarding ungrammati-cal ones.4 Categor ia l  Lex iconIn constructing a categorial lexicon for the grammar,we used an existing grammar-independent lexiconthat had been made available as part of the XTAGproject at the University of Pennsylvania.
The orig-inal public domain lexicon contains about 37K quin-tuples, (INDEX, ENTRY, POS, CAT, FS), where POSand CAT are associated with a part-of-speech (suchas V or N) and a set of categories, respectively, forthe lexical item associated with ENTRY.
The lexi-cal items are supplemented by a morphology table,which has about 317K entries for various grammati-cal inflections.
We have also made use of public do-main word lists and consulted an on-line electronicdictionary for more commonly used lexical items.At the moment, the lexicon has about 18K nouns,6.5K adjectives, 4.5K transitive verbs, 2K intransi-tive verbs, among other categories.5 Engl ish  Gra ln lnar  CheckerThe user interface of the system includes a directinteraction with the Prolog interpreter, as well as anInternet interface.
The Internet interface is writtenin HTML and CGI/PEt/L,  which invokes the run-time image of the Prolog code.The project is still at an initial stage and there aremany other issues that need to be addressed, such asperformance and coverage of the mistake types.
Webelieve that the use of a standard linguistic theorysuch as CCG made it possible to develop a grammarchecker in a very short time frame and limited manpower, as the existing large standard lexicons are bemade readily available for it.
Pending further fund-ing, we believe that the prototype grammar checkercan be brought up to an industry strength.AcknowledgementsWe appreciate the students who agreed to providethei~ essays for the present project.
We also thankour beta testers, especially Laura Siegel and JinahPark, who have shared their time to test the system.24
