Prosody and the Resolution of Pronominal AnaphoraMaria Welterslnstitut l'i.ir Komlnunikationsforschung undPhonetik, Universitfit BonnPoppelsdorfer Alice 47, D-53115 Bonnwolters@ikp.uni-bonn, deDonna K. ByronDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of RochesterRe.
Box 270226, Rochester, NY 14627dbyron@cs, rochester, eduAbstractIn this paper, we investigate the acoustic prosodic mark-ing o\[" demonstrative and personal pronouns in task-oriented dialog.
Although it has been hypothesized thatacouslie marking affects pronoun resolution, we findflint {l~e prosodic information extracted from tile data isnot sufficienl to predict antcceden!
lype reliably.
Inter-speaker variation accottnts for mt, ch of lhe prosodic vari-ation that we find in our data.
We conclude that prosodiccues shot, ld be handled with care in robust, speaker-independenl dialog systems.1 I n t roduct ionPrevious work on anaphora resolution has yieMed a richbasis of theories and heuristics for finding antecedenls.However, most research to date has neglecled an impor-tant potential cue that is only available in spoken data:prosody.
Prosodic marking can be used to change theantecedent of a pronoun, as demonsh'ated by lifts clas-sic example from l.akoff ( 1971 ) (capitals indicalc a pitchaccent):( I ) Johll i called J imj a Relmblican, then hei insultedhimj.
(2) Johlll called Jim./ a Republican, then lll{j ill-sulled lllMi.But exactly how the antecedent changes due to theprosodic marking on tile pronoun, and whefller this effecthappens consistently, is an open question.
If consislcnlelfecls do exisl, they would be useful for online pronouninlerpretation i spoken dialog systems.Prosodic prominence directs tile attention of the lis-tener to what is important for understanding and inteFpretation.
But how should this principle be applied whenwords that are normally not very prominent, such asprollouns, are accented?
More generally, does acous-tic marking provide syslemalic ues to characteristics ofamecedents?
IVlore specitically, does it imply that tileantecedent is "untmtml" in some wily'?
These arc tiletwo hypofl/eses we investigate in this paper.
()ur dataconsists of 322 pronouns from a large corpus of spoma-neous lask-orientcd dialog, the TRAINS93 corpus (Hee~man and Allen, 1995).
This corpus allows us to studypronotms as they occur in spontaneous unscripted dis-COLlrse, al)d is erie of tile very few speech corporit o havebeen annotated with pronoun interpretation i fommtion.The remainder oF this paper is structured as follows:In Section 2, we SUllllllill'iZe relevant work on pl'OllOUnresolution and report on tile few proposals for integrat-ing prosody into pronoun resolution algorithms.
Next,in Section 3, we present ile dialogs used for our studyand the attributes awfilable in tile annotation data, whileSection 4 describes file acoustic measures that were corn-puled automatically from the data.
Section 5 exploreswhelher there are syslematic orrelations between theseproperties and tile acoustic measures fundamental fre-quency, duralion, and inlensity.
For lhese measures, wefind Ihat nlost correlations are in fact due to speaker vari-alien, and fl/a/ speakers differ greatly in their overallprosodic characleristics.
Finally, we investigate whetherit is possible to use Ihesc acoustic features to predictprope,'ties of tile antecedent using logistic regression.Again, we do not find acoustic features to be reliableprediclors for lhe l'catures of inleresl.
Therefore, we con-chide in Section 6 lhat acoustic measures cannot be usedin sl)eaker-independenl o ine anaphora resolution algo-rithms to predict lhe features under investigation here.2 Background and Related WorkThere is a rich literature ?
)11 resolving personal pronouns.Many approaches arc based on a notion of attentionalfoctls.
Entities in attentional focus are highly salient,and pronouns are assumed to refer to tile most saliententity in lhc discourse (el.
(Brennan el al., 1987; Az-zam et ill., 1998; Strube, 1998)).
Centering (Grosz etal., 1995) is a i}amework for predicting local attentionalfocus.
It assumes that tile most salient entity from sen-tence ,3,,_\] that is realized in sentence ,5',, is most likelyto be pronominalized in ,3,z.
That entity is termed the Cb(backward-looking center) of sentence ,5',,.
Finding illepreferred ranking criteria is an active area of research.Byron and Stem (1998) adapted this approach, which hadpreviously been applied to text, for spoken dialogs, butwilh linfited st,ccess.\]n contrast to personal pronouns, demonstratives donot rely on calculalions of salience.
In fact, Linde (1979)found lhat while it was preferred for entities within the919current local t'ocus, that was used for items outside thecurrent focus of attention.
Passonneau (1989) showedthat personal and demonstrative pronouns are used incontrasting situations: personal pronouns are preferredwhen both the pronoun and its antecedent are in sub-ject position, while demonstrative pronouns are preferredwhen either the pronoun or its antecedent is not ill sub-ject position.
She also found that personal pronouns tendto co-specify with pronouns or base noun phrases; themore clause- or seutence-likc the antecedent, he morelikely the speaker is to choose a demonstrative pronoun.Pronoun resolution algoritlnns tend not to coverdemonstratives.
Notable exceptions are Webber's modelfor discotn'se deixis (Webbcr, 1991) and the model de-veloped for spoken dialog by Eekert and Strube (1999).This algorithm encompasses both personal and delnon-strative pronouns and exploits their contrastive usage pat-terns, relying on syntactic lues and verb subcategoriza-tions as input.
Neither study investigated the intluence ofprosodic prominence on resolution.Most previous work on prosody and pronotm resolu-tion has focussed on pitch accents and third person sin-gular pronouns that co-specify with persons.
Nakatani(1997) examined the antecedents of personal pronounsin a 20-minute narrative monologue.
She found that pro-nouns tend to be accented il' they occur in subject po-sition, and if the backward-looking center (Grosz et al,1995) was shifted to the referent of that pronoun.
Shethen extended this result to a general theory of the in-teraction between l)rominencc and discourse structure.Cahu (1995)discusses accented prorJouns on the ba-sis of a theory about accentual correlates of salience.Kamcyama (1998) interprets a pitch accent on pronounsin the fl'amework of Ihe alternative semantics (Rooth,1992) theory o1' focus.
She assumes that all potential an-tecedents are stored in a list.
Pronouns arc then resolvedto the most preferred antecedent on that list which is syn-tactically and semantically compatible with the pronoun.Preference is modeled by an ordering on the set ol' an-tecedents.
An accent on lhe pronoun signals that pro-noun resolution should not be based on the default order-ing, where the default is computed by a nmnber of in-teracting syntactic, semantic, pragmatic, and attentionalconstraints.Compared to he and she, it and that lmve been some-what neglected.
There are two reasons for this: First, itis not considered to be as accentable as he and she bynative speakers of both British and American English,whereas that is more likely than it to beat" a pitch ac-cent.
An informal study of the London-Lund corptts ofspoken British English (Svartvik, 1990) confirmed thatobservation.
Second, that fi'cquently does not lmve aco-specifying NP antecedent, and most research on co-speciticatiou has focussed on pronouns and NPs.
Workon accented emonstratives and pronoun resolution is ex-tremely scarce.
Pioneering studies were conducted byFt'ethcim and his collaborators.
They tested the effect ofaccented sentence-initial demonstratives that co-specifywith the preceding sentence on the resolution of ambigu-ous personal pronouns, and found that the pronoun an-tecedents switched when the demonstrative was accented(Fretheim ct al., 1997).
However, to otu" knowledge,there are no studies that compare the co-specificationpreferences of accented vs. unaccented demonstratives.3 The Corpus: TRAINS93Our data is taken from the TRAINS93 corpus of hunlun-human problem solving dialogs in the logistics phnutingdomain.
In these dialogs, one participant plays the roleof the planning assistant and the other attempts to con-struct a plan for delivering specified cargo to its destina-tion.
We used a subset of 18 TRAINS93 dialogs in whichthe referent and antecedent of third-person on-gendcrcdpronouns I had been attnotated in a previous study (By-ron and Allen, 1998).
In the dialogs used for the presentstudy, 322 pronouns (158 personal and 164 demonstra-live) have been annotated.
Personal pronouns ill the di-alogs are it, its, itselJ; them, the3,, their and themselves.Demonstrative pronouns in the annotation data are that,this, these, those.
There are live nmle and 11 fenmlespeakers.
One female speaker contributed 89 pronouns,two others produced more than 30 each (one female, onemale), the rest is divided unevenly among tile remain-ing 13 speakers.
The set of dialogs chosen for annota-tion intentionally included a variety of speakers o thatno speaker's idiosyncratic discourse strategies would beprevalent ill the resulting data.Table 1 describes the attributes caplurcd for eachpronoun.
These features were chosen for tile annota-tion because many previous studies have shown themto be imporlant for pronoun resolution.
Features ill-clude attributes of the pronoun, its antecedent ( he dis-cotu'se constituent Ihat previously triggered lhe refer-ent), and its referent (the entity that should be substi-tuted for the pronoun in a semantic representation ofthe sentence).
Cb was annotated using Model3 from(Byron and Stent, 1998) with a linear model of dis-course  st ructure .
Note that anno la led  prononns  werenot limited to those with NP antecedents, as is tile casewith most other studies.
In addition to NP antecedents,pronouns in this data set could have an antecedent ofsome other phrase or clause type, or no annomtablc an-tecedent at all.
There are two categories of pronounswith no annotalable antecedent.
Ill the simplest case,tim pronominal reference is the first mention of the ref-erent ill tile dialog.
That happens when the referent is in-ferred liom the problem solving state.
For example, af-ter" tile utterance send the engine to Comingand p ick  up the  boxcars ,  a new discourse n-I No gendcred entities exist in this co,'pus, so gendered pronounswc,-c not inchtdcd.
All dcmonst,'ativc pronouns were annolated; how-evcf, lhcre were only 5 occurrences of "this" in the selected ialogs,so eonstrasts between proxinml and distal dcmonslratives could not bestudied.920Feature 11) l)escriplionI'RONTYPE Pronoutl TypeI'RONSUB,I Pronoun is suljcclANTI,\]I~()I{M Antecedenl formI)IST I)islance to antecedentANTESUILI Antecedent is subjcc!CB Backward-looking center|trOllOU 11categoryPossible Valuesdef= tile pronoun is one of {it, its, itself, them, dmy, thcin themselves}dcm = the inonoun is one of {that, this, these, fllose}Y = prOllOtltl subject of lllaill clause of its ulleranceN : pronotm not subject of main clauseI'I~,()NOUN = antecedent is pronounNI' = antecedent is mse noun phraseN()N-NP = antecedent is other constituent, at most one utterance longNONE = pronotm is lit'st mention or antecedent length > one tttteranceSAME = antecedent and pronoun in same utteranceAI)J = antecedent and pronoun in adjacent utterancesRI{MOTE = antecedent more than one utterance before pronounY = alSteccdel l l  subject o1' the lllain chmse of its tttteranceN = antecedent not subject of a main clauseY = pronoun is Cb of its utteranceN = pronoun is not CbDISTcldj.
I'CqllO\[?Table 1: The features avaihtble ill the annotation data set.ANTE ANTESUBJNP/pmn.
non-NP  none yes no same75.9% 6.3% 17.8 % 37.3% 62.7% 29.1%28.0% 36.1t0% 36.0% 14.0% 86.11% 18.9%51.60{, 21.4% 27.0% 25.5% 74.5% 23.9%personal 33.5% 20.2%demonslrafive 29.9% 15.2%lolal 31.7% 17.7%3hble 2: Typical properties of antccedcnts lbr personal and demonst,'ative pronouns ill file corpus.
All percentagesare given relative to tile lolal ntnnber of pronouns in that category and rounded.
Boldface: most frequent antecedentproperty.tity, tile train composed of tile engine and Ix)xcars, isawfilable for anaphoric reference.
In the more subtlecase, Ihe entity was built from a stretch (51" discourselonger than one utterance.
In an effort to achieve an ac-ceptable level of inier-annotalor agreelnenl for the awnohltion, the maxinmm size \[or a consfiluenl to serve as~tll ~ltllecedelll W\[lS de\[illed l(1 be OllC ullCl'~,lllCC, l)iscourseentities that are built fi'om longer she/chcs of lexl includeobjects uch as tile entire 131an or tile discourse itself, andsuch items are less reliable lo annotate.qaking the annotated dialogs as a whole, 21.4% of allprollouns have ;.l non-NP antecedent, and 27% do nothave an mmolatal~le antecedent a  a11.
qhble 2 shows thaltile default antecedenls o1' personal and denlonsh'alivepronouns follow the predictions of Schiffman (1985).The antecedent of personal pronouns i  most likely itselflo be a pronoun or a full NP, while demonstratives m'emost likely to have no antecedent, or if there is one, it isntost likely to be a non-NR The main role of prosodic ill-lksr,nation is to help pronoun resolution algorithms iden-tify cases where flmse default predictions are false.4 Acoustic Prosodic CuesOur selection (51' acottstic measures covers three classiccomponents of prosody: fundamental frequency (IV()),duration, and intensity (Lehiste, 1970).
The relation-ship between those cues and prosodic pronlinencc hasbeen demonstrated bye.g.
(Fant and Kruckenberg, 1989;Heufl, 1999).
Tile main correlate of English stress is F0,the second rues!
imporlant is duration, and the least im-porlanl is inlensity (1,chisle, 1970).
Therefore, we willpay more allelllioll lo F0 illeflsUl'eS.
Although cxperi-menial results indicate flint 1;0 cues of pronlinencc candepend on the shape of file 1:0 conlour of the uucranec(c.f.
(Gussenhoven cl al., 1997)), we do nol control forsuch illleraclions.
\]llstead, we reslricl ourselves to cuesthat are easy to COnlpute fr(ml limiled dala, so that a run-ning spoken dialogue system might be able to computethem in real time.4.1 Acoustic MeasuresDuration: For duration, we found lhat 1he logarith-mic duration wllues a,'c nornmlly distributed, bolh pooledover all speakers and for lhoso speakers willl more than20 pronouns.
Logariflmtic duration is also tile target vari-able of many duration models such as that of (van San-ten, 1992).
We assume that speaker-related variation iscovered by the w,'iance of lhis normal distribution; wecan control for speaker effects by including a SPEAKERfactor in our models.F0 variables: F0 was computed using the \]2ntropicESPS Waves tool get_f0 with standard settings and aframe rate (51' 10 ms. All F0 wdues were transt'onned intolhe log-domain and then pooled imo mean, minimum,and maximum F0 values for each word and each utter-ance.
This log donmin is well motiw~led psychoacousti-cally (Zwicker and lhtstl, 1990).
F0 range was computedoil the values in tile log-domain.
We assume lhat the Iog-m'ithm of F0 has a nomml distribution.
Therefore, we921can nommlize for speaker-dependent differences in pitchrange by using z-scores, and we can use standard statis-tical analysis methods uch as ANOVA.Intensity: Intensity is measured as the root-mean-square (RMS) of signal amplitudes.
We measureRMS relative to a baseline as given by the formulalog(l{MS/RMSb~olino).
The baseline RMS was com-puted on the basis of a simple pause detection algorithm,which takes the first nmximum in the amplitude his-togram to be the average amplitude of background noise.The baseline RMS was slightly above that value.4.2 Inter-Speaker DifferencesSince we need to pool data from many different speak-ers, we qeed to control for inter-speaker differences.Tim number of pronouns we have fl'om each speakervaries between 1 for speaker GD and 86 for speakerCK.
Speakers PH, male, and CK, female, are theonly ones to lmve produced more than 15 personalpronouns and 15 demonstratives.
In order to testwhether the SPEAKER factor affects the choice be-tween personal pronouns and demonstratives, we tit-ted a logistic regression model with the target variablePRONTYPE (personal or demonstrative) and the predic-torsANTE, ANTESUBJ ,  DIST, REFCAT,  CBandSPEAKER (in this sequence).
REFCAT is an additionalvariable that describes the senmntic category of a pro-noun's referent (eg.
donmin objects vs. abstract enti-ties).
Even though SPEAKER is the last factor in themodel, an analysis of deviance shows a signilicant intlu-euce (p<0.005,F=2.51,df13).
A possible explanationfor this is that some speakers prefer to use demonstra-tives in contexts where others would choose a personalpronotm, and vice versa, or perhaps the SPEAKER vari-able mediates the intluence of a far ,nore complex factorsuch as problem solving strategy.
Resolving this ques-lion is beyond the scope of this paper.On the basis of F0, we can establish four groups ofspeakers: The first group consists of male speakers witha low mean F0 and a low F0 range.
In the next group,we find both male and female speakers with a low meanF0, but a far higher range.
Speaker PH belongs to thissecond group.
Interestingly, for these speakers, the meanF0 on pronouns is lower titan for those of the first group.Groups 3 and 4 consist entirely of female speakers, withgroup 3 using a lower range than group 4.
Speaker CKbelongs to group 4.5 Exploring Prominent PronounsIf data about prosodic prominence is to be useful for pro-noun resolution, then there must be prosodic cues thatcarry information about properties of the antecedent.
Inthis section, we investigate if there are such cues for theproperties that we have available in the annotation data,defined in ~lable 1.
More specitieally, we hypothesizethat prosodic ues will be used if the antecedent is some-what unusual.
For example, the results of Linde andPropertyANTEFORFID ISTANTESUBJdfall3 range3 none2 durDam SetpeJw.
dem.
CK110110 none  nonel lono none  nonedur,  no l le  \])ors.
:mean energyrangeTable 3: Significant Inlluences of Antecedent Proper-ties (p <0.05) on Prosodic Cues.
inean=z-score meanF0, range=range of z-score F0, dur=logarithmic dura-tion, dem=demonstratives, pets=personal pronotmsPassonneau would lead us to expect that personal pro-nouns with non-NP antecedents and demonstratives withNP and pronoun antecedents will be marked.
Since theantecedents of pronouns tend to occur no more than 1-2clauses ago, we would also expect pronouns with moreremote antecedents obe marked.
A first qualitative lookat the data suggets that even il' such these tendencies arepresent in the data, they might not turn out to be signifi-cant.
For example, in Figure 1, the means of l zmeanf0behave roughly as predicted, but the variation is so largethat these differences might well be due to chance.5.1 Correlations between Measures and PropertiesNext, we examine whether the measures delined in Sec-lion 4 correlate with any particular properties o1' theantecedent.
More precisely, if a property is cued bysome aspect ot' prosody (either duration, F0, or inten-sity), then the prosody of a pronoun depends to a cer-lain degree on its antecedent.
In a statistical analysis,we should lind a significant effect of the relevant an-tecedent property on the prosodic measure.
We selectedANOVA as our analysis method, because our prosodictarget variables appear to have a normal distribution.
Foreach of the antecedent features delined above, we ex-amined its inlluence on mean F0 (imeanf0), the z-score of mean F0 ( l zmeanf0) ,  the z-score of F0 range( l z rg f0 ) ,  logarithmic duration (dur) ,  and normalizedenergy (energy) .
In addition, we added the tactors,PRONTYPE and SPEAKER.Results: The results are summarized in Table 3.
Fori zmeanf0  and energy, the influence of SPEAKERis always considerable.
There are also consistent ef-fects of the syntactic position of a pronoun: In general,demonstratives are shorter in subject position, and forCK, mean F0 on personal pronouns in subject positionis higher than on non-subject ones (228 Hz vs. 190 Hz).But when we turn to the factors that interest us lnOSt,properties of the antecedent, we cannot lind any consis-tent correlates, although in ahnost every data set, thereare some prosodic ues to ANTESUBJ for personal pro-nouns.
But what these cues are may well depend on thespeaker, as the results for CK show.
Her pitch range onpronouns with a stdjcct antecedent is double the rangeon pronouns with an antecedent in non-su/lject position.922EP?l'SOll l l l  l i ro l lOUl lST - - : -- -7  : :" L ~o ~o o o?oI I I ~ - -NI I lie alllt~ non-NP  I/lO"\['ype of AtllCci~dt~lllF~7t ) I_qll O II,"i \[ fa t  i'?
(~ P fo I IO I ln~: 8NP IIO1|11\[~ no I I -NP  pfOType of Alltcccdcnly~K8o- -  ft~on slkhiPerso l | l l l  P fo l lOt l l lS- \ ] - -1 ;oool - -  III(II1L~ stiltAi/tecctletll is Stlbjc'ctEoiDemonst ra t ive  P ronounsmClfi,8t - - \ ] - - -  iI|OII-SlIIj Ill)lie suljAiItecctlct~l is SubjectFigure 1: Distribution el: z-score of mean F0 for dilferellt values of ANTEFORM and ANTESUI3JPronouns with subject antecedents are also considerablylouder.
All ill all, antecedent prol)ertics can only ac-COUllt for a very small percelltage of tile wtriatioll inthese prosodic ues.
Therefore, we should i~ot expect heprosodic ues to be slablc, robust indicators for predict-ins antecedent properlies ill spoken dialog systems.5.2  In ter -Speaker  Var ia t ionwe have sccn that inter-speaker di ffcrcl~ces cxpl;~i n muchof the variation in the prosodic measures.
Table 4 givesan idea of the size and direction of these differences.On the complete data set, wc lilKl that personal pro-nouns are shorlor lhan demonslratives, they have a lowerintensity and show a higher average 1;0 (3~tble 4).
Acloser examination reveals considerable inter-speakervariation in the data, illustrated in Table 4.
CK is fairlyptototypical.
PH barely shows the difference il~ F0, al~dfor MF, the difference in intensity is actually reversed.MF also has rather shor!
demonstratives.
Such speaker-specilic wlriation callnot be eliminated by nomtalization.It has to be controlled for in the statistical lcsls.
Dis-covering types of speakers is diflicult - two of the 15speakers, CK, and PH, con/ribute 48% of all pronouns.5.3  P red ic t ing  Proper t ies  o f  t i le  AntecedentFinally, we examine how much information prosodiccues yield about the ~tntecedent.
For this purpose, weset till a prediction lask not unlike one that all actualNLU syslenl ~lces.
The input variables arc the prosodicproperties of the pronoun, whether the protloun is per-sonal or demonstrative (P\]R.ONTYPE), whether it is thesubject (PRONSUBJ), and whether it is sentence-initial(PRONZNIT).
From this, we now have to deduce l~roper -lies of thc antecedent: syntactic i'olc (ANTESrdBJ), fern1(ANTEFORM), and distance (DZST).
For prediction, wcused logistic regression (Agresti, 1990).
This has two ad-vantages: not only can wc compare how well the differ-cnt regression models lit the data, wc call also re-analyzethe titled model to determine which factors have a signif-icant inlluence oll classiIication accuracy.Firsl, we conslrucl a model on the basis ofPRONTYPE,  PRONSUBJ ,  and PRONIN IT .
Then,we conslruct a model with these three faclors plusSPEAKER.. finally, we train a model with PRONTYPE,923Speakerdis'c.all 156 HzCK 188HzPH 126 HzMF 166 Hzmean F0pelw.
dem.157 Hz 142 Hz208 Hz 187 Hz109 Hz 110 Hz184 Hz 182 Hzz-score meanpets.
dent-0.04 -0.240.31 0.00-0.43 -0.470.32 0.26durationpelw.
dem161 ms 206 ms151 ms 193 ms179ms 252 ms166 ms 164 msintensitypetw.
dem2.36 2.382.51 2.542.57 2.842.69 2.40Table 4: Inter-speaker variation in prosody, disc.
: complete discourse.
All speakers: 322 pronouns, CK: 41 personal,45 demonstrative, PH: 18 personal, 24 demonstrative, MF: 7 personal, 8 demonstrativePRONSUBJ, PRONINIT, SPEAKER and one of thethree measures l zmeanf0 ,  dur ,  energy .
The mod-els are trained to predict whether there is an antecedent(task noAnte) ,  whether the antecedent is a non-NP(task nonNP), whether the antecedent is remote (taskremote) ,  whether the antecedent is in subject position(task u j ante ) ,  and whether the antecedent is the currentCb (task cb).
All models are computed over the full dataset, because the data set for speaker CK is not suflicient?
for estimating the regression coefficients.
The modelsare then compared to see which step yielded a significantimprovement: adding SPEAKER or adding the prosodicvariable after we have accounted for SPEAKER variation.Results: The results arc summarized in Table 5.
Onall tasks except remote ,  PRONTYPE and PRONSUBJperformed well.
Both features have ah'oady been shownto be reliable cnes for prononn resoluti(m (c.f.
Sec-tion 2).
On task cb, only PRONTYPE can explain asignilicant amount of wuiation.
Models which includea speaker factor ahnost always fare better.
In modelswithout speaker information, F0-relaled measures yielda larger reduction in deviance than the duration measure.The reason for this is that the F0 measures preserve someinformation about the ditl'ercnt speaker strategies.
OnceSPEAKER has been included as well, only dur  leadsto significant improvements on task nonNP (p<0.05).Both demonstratives and personal pronouns are shorterwhen the antecedent is a non-NR6 Conclusion and OutlookIn this paper, we cxamincd patterns of acoustic prosodichighlighting of personal and demonstrative pronouns ina corpus of task-oriented spontaneous dialog.
To ourknowledge, this is the lirst comparative study of thiskind.
Wc used a straightforward, theory-neutral opera-tionalization of "prosodic highlighting" that does not de-pend on complex algorithms for F0 stylization or (focal)accent detection and is thus very easy to incorporate intoany real-time spoken dialog system.
We chose a spo-ken dialog corpus that includes demonstrativc pronounsbecause demonstratives are both a prominent feature ofproblem-solving dialogs and a sorely neglected lield ofstudy.
In particular, we asked two questions:Do Speakers Signal Antecedent PropertiesAcoustically?
Based on our data, the answer to thisquestion is: If they do,/hey do it in a highly idiosyncraticway.
We cannot posit any safe generalizations over sev-eral speakers, and li"om the perspective of an NLP appli-cation, such generalizations might even be dangerous.
Inorder to evaluate the impact of speaker strategies on theresolution of pronouns, we need more data - 150 to 200pronouns from 4-5 speakers each.
Collecting this amountof data in a dedicated corpus is inefficient.
Therefore,further acoustic investigations do not make much sense atthis point; rather, the data should be examined carefullyfor tendencies which can form the basis for dedicatedproduction and perception experiments which arc explic-itly designed for uncovering inter-speaker variation.Are Acoustic Features Useful for PronounResolution?
The answer is: probably not.
At least forthis corpus, we were not able to determine any numeri-cal heuristics that could be utilized to aid pronoun reso-lution.
The logistic regression experiments show that ona speaker-independent basis, logarithmic duration mightwell be a reliable cue to certain aspects of a pronoun'santecedent.
In order to incorporate prosodic cues intoan actual algorithm, we will need more training materialand a principled evaluation procedure.
We will also needto take into account other influences, such as dialog actsand dialog structure.Acknowledgements.
Wc would like to thank the threeanonymous reviewers, Rebecca Passonneau, LncicnGalescu, James Alhm, Michael Strube, Dictmar Lancdand Wolf gang Hess for their comments on earlier vet'-sions of this work.
Donna K. Byron was funded by ONRresearch grant N00014-95-1-1088 and Columbia Univer-sity/NSF research grant OPG:1307.
For all statisticalanalyses, wc used R (Ihaka and Gentleman, 1996).ReferencesA.
Agresti.
1990.
Categorical Data Analysis.
John Wi-ley.S.
Azzam, K. Humphreys, and R. Gaizauskas 1998.E?tending a Simple Co,'eference Algorithm with aFocusing Mechanism.
In New Approaches to Dis-course Anaphora: Proceedings of the Second Collo-quium on Discoulwe Anaphora and Anaphor Resolu-tion (DAARC2), pages 15-27.S.
Brennan, M. Friedman, and C. Pollard.
1987.
A cen-tering approach to pronouns.
In Proceedings of the25 th Ammal Meeting of the Association.fi~r Compu-tational Linguistics (ACL '87), pages 155-162.924\]hsknonNPnoAnteremotes jantecbsignificant illfluencePRONTYPE, PRONSUBJ, PRONINIT, durPRONTYPE, PRONSUBJ, PRONINIT, SPEAKER.110110PRONTYPE, PRONSUBJPRONTYPE,  SPEAKERTable 5: Perlbrmance of Reg,'ession Models on Tasks.
Listed are factors which improve perfornmnce signilicantly(p < 0.05)D. Byron and J. Allen.
1998.
Resolving demonstra-tive pronouns in the TRAtNS93 corpus.
In New Ap-proaches to Discoume AnaFhora: Proceedings ofthe Second Colloquium on Discou/we AnaFhora attdAnaphor Resolution (DAARC2), pages 68 - 81.I).
Byron and A.
Stem.
1998.
A preliminary model ofcentering in dialog.
In Proceedings of tire 36 th An-total Meeting of the Association .for ComputationalLinguistics (A CL '98).3.
Cahn.
1995.
The effect of pitch accenting on pro-norm referent resolulion.
In Proceedings of the 33 tj~Ammal Meeting of" the Association./or Computatiomd?ingtdstics (ACL '95), pages 290-292.M.
F, ckert and M. Strubc.
1999.
Resolving discourse de-ictic anaphora in dialogs.
111 I~roceedings oJ"the 9 thCoq/'erence of the European Chapter of the Associa-tion Jbr Conq)utational Linguistics ( I';ACL '99).G.
Fant and A. Kruckenberg.
1989.
Preliminariesto tim study of Swedish prose reading and readingstyle.
KT'II Speech 7)ansmission Laborato O, Quar-terly Progress and Status Report, 2: 1-83.T Frelheinl, W. wm 1)onmlelen, and K. 13orthen.
1997.lJnguislic constraints on relevance in reference reso-lution.
In K. Singer, R. Eggert, and G. Anderson, edi-tors, CLS, volume 33, pages 99-113.B.
Grosz, A. Joshi, and S. Weinstein.
1995.
Cenlering:A framework for modeling the local coherence of dis-course.
ComputationalLinguistics, 21(2):203-226.C.
Gussenhoven, B.H.
Repp, A. Rietveld, II.
P, umpand J. Terken.
1997.
The perceptual prominence oft'undanmntal frequency peaks.
J. Acoust.
Soc.
Ame,:,102:3009-3022.P.
Heeman and J. Allen.
1995.
The Trains Spoken l)ia-log Corpus.
CD-ROM, lJngt, istic Data Consortium.B.
Heuft 1999.
F, ine prominenzbasierte M thode ztttProsodieanalyse trod -synthese.
Peter Lang, Frank-furt.R.
Ihaka and R. Gentlenmn (1996).
R: A language fordata analysis and graphics.
Journal q/Co/nputationaland Graphical Statistics, 5:299-314.M.
Kameymna.
1998.
Stressed Pronouns.
111 R Bosch,R.
van Sandt, editors, The Focus Book, pages 89-112.
()xford University Press, Oxford.G.
lmkoff.
1971.
P,'esuppositions and relative well-formedness.
Iii Semantics: An InteMisciplinao,Reader in Philosophy, Linguistics, and l'sydtology,pages 329-340.
Cambridge University Press.I.
Lchiste.
1970.
Suprasegmentals.
Mrl" Press, Cam-bridge, Mass.C Limle.
1979.
Focus o1' attention and the choice ofpronouns in discourse.
In qhhny Given, editor, &,maxand Semantics 12: Discomwe arid ,S),ntax, New York.Academic Press.C.
Nakatani.
1997.
The Computational Processing oflntonatiolml Prominence: A Functional Prosody Per-spective.
Ph.l).
thesis, Harvard University.R.
Passonneau.
1989.
Gelling al discourse referents.
InProceedings of the 27 u' Ammal Meeting of the Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics (ACL '89), pages51-59.M.
Rooth.
1992.
A theory of focus interpretation.
Natu-ral Language Semantics, 1:75-112.P,.
Schiffnlan (Passo,mcau).
1985.
DA'course con-strair2ts on 'it' and 'that': A study of la/tguage use incareer-courtseling interviews.
Ph.\]).
thesis, Universilyof Chicago.\].
Swulvik, editor.
1990.
7he London Coq)us o.fSl~okenEnglish: Descril)tion and Reseamh.
l.und UniversilyPress, Lund.M.
Strube 1998.
Never look back: An alternative tocentering.
In Proceedings (!/" the 36 th Amlual Meet-ing o.f the Association for Comtmtational Linguistics(ACL '98), pages 1251-1257.J.
van Sanlen 1992 Contexlt, al effects on vowel dura-tion.
Speech Co/mmmication, 11:513-546.B.
Webber.
1991.
Structure and ostension in the inter-pretation of discourse deixis.
Language and CognitiveProcesses, 6:107-135.E.
Zwicker and H. Fastl 1990.
Psychoacoustics.Springer, Be,'lin.925
