A word-grammar based morl)hoh)gieal nalyzerfor agglutinative languagesAduriz 1.+, Agirre E., Aldezabal I., Alegria I., Arregi X., Arriohl J. M., Artola X., Gojenola K.,Marilxalar A., Sarasola K., Urkia M.+l)ept, of Colllptiier 1Aulgtlages and Systems, University of lhe Basqtlo Cotlnlry, 64.9 P. K.,E-20080 1)onostia, Basque Counh'ytUZEI, Aldapeta 20, E-20009 1)onostia, Basque Country+Universidad de Barcelona, Grin Vfii de Isis Cortes CalaiallaS, 585, E-08007 Flarcelonaj ipgogak @ si.elm, es.Abst rac lAgglutinative languages presenl richmorphology and for sonic applicationsthey lleed deep analysis at word level.Tile work here presenled proposes amodel for designing a full nlorpho-logical analyzer.The model integrates lhe two-levelfornlalisnl alld a ullificalion-I)asodfornialisni.
In contrast to other works,we propose to separate the treatment ofsequential and non-sequetTtial mou)ho-lactic constraints.
Sequential constraintsare applied in lhe seglllenlalion phase,and non-seqtlontial OlleS ill the filialfeature-combination phase.
Early appli-cation of sequential nlorpholacticcoilsli'aiills during tile segnloillaiioi/process nlakes feasible :,ill officienliinplenleilialion of tile full morpho-logical analyzer.The result of lhis research has been tiledesign and imi)len~entation of a fullnlorphosynlactic analysis procedure foreach word in unrestricted Basque texts.I n t roduct ionMorphological analysis of woMs is a basictool for automatic language processing, andindispensable when dealing willl highlyagglutinative languages like Basque (Aduriz elal., 98b).
In lhis conlext, some applications,like spelling corfeclion, do ilOI need illOl'e lhanthe seglllOlltation of each word inlo itsdifferent COlllponenl nlorphellles alollg withtheir morphological information, ltowever,there are oiher applications such as lemnializa-tion, lagging, phrase recognition, anddelernlinaiion of clause boundaries (Aduriz elal., 95), which need an additional globalmorphological i)arsing j of the whole word.Such a complete nlorphological analyzer haslo consider three main aspects (l~,ilchie et al,92; Sproal, 92):1 Morl)hographenfics (also called morpho-phonology).
This ternl covers orthographicvariations that occur when linkingI l lOfphellleS.2) morpholactics.
Specil'ication of whichnlorphenles can or cannot combine witheach other lo form wflid words.3) Feature-combination.
Specification of howthese lnorphemes can be grouped and howtheir nlorphosyntactic features can becomlfined.The system here presented adopts, oil the onehand, tile lwo-level fornlalisnl to deal withmorphogralfilemics and sequential morl)ho-lactics (Alegria el al., 96) and, on the otherhand, a unification-based woM-grammar 2 tocombine the grammatical information definedin nlorphemes and to  tackle complexnlorphotactics.
This design allowed us todevelop a full coverage analyzer that processesefl'iciently unrestricted texts in Basque.The remainder of tills paper is organized sisfollows.
After a brief' description of Basquenlorphology, section 2 describes tilearchitecture for morphological processing,where the morphosynlactic omponent isincluded.
Section 3 specifies tile plaenomenacovered by the analyzer, explains its desigi~criteria, alld presents implementation andewthialion details.
Section d compares fileI This has also been called mo*7)hOSh,ntacticparsitlg.
When we use lhc \[(fill #11017~\]lOSyltl~/X WCwill always refer to il~c lficrarchical structure atwoM level, conlbining morphology and synlax.2 '\]'\]lt3 \[IDl'll\] WOl'd-gF(lllllllUl" should not be confusedwith the synlaclic lilcory presented in (Hudson, 84).system with previous works.
Finally, the paperends with some concluding renmrks.1 Brief description of BasquemorphologyThese are the most important features ofBasque morphology (Alegria et al, 96):?
As prepositional functions are realized bycase suffixes inside word-fornls, Basquepresents a relatively high power to generateinflected word-forms.
For instance, froth asingle noun a minimum of 135 inflectedforms can be generated.
Therefore, thenumber of simple word-forms covered bythe current 70,000 dictionary entries wouklnot be less than 10 million.?
77 of the inflected forms are simplecombinations of number, determination,and case marks, not capable of furtherinflection, but the other 58 word-formsending in one of the two possible genitives(possessive and locative) can be furtherinflected with the 135 morphemes.
Thiskind of recursive construction reveals anoun ellipsis inside a noun phrase andcould be theoretically exteuded adinfinitum; however, in practice it is notusual to fiud more than two levels of thiskind of recursion in a word-form.
Takinginto account a single level of noun ellipsis,the number of word-forum coukl beestimated over half a billion.?
Verbs offer a lot of grammaticalinformation.
A verb tbrln conveys informa-tion about the subject, the two objects, aswell as the tense and aspect.
For example:diotsut (Eng.
: 1 am telling you something).o Word-formation is very productive inBasque.
It is very usual to create newcompounds as well as derivatives.As a result of this wealth of infornmtioncontained within word-forms, complex struc-tures have to be built to represent completemorphological information at word level.2 An architecture for the fullmorphological ana lyzerThe framework we propose for themorphological treatment is shown in Figure 1.The morphological nalyzer is the fiont-end toall present applications for the processing ofBasque texts.
It is composed of two modules:the segmentation module and themorphosyntactic analyzer.conformant .................. ~ U~atabas N TEZ-conf~\[Segmentation module____~| HorphograDhemicsMorphotactics ITEI-FS .............. ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ - p ~conformant Cegmented TexNMorphosyntacticanalyzerFeature- combinationMorphotactics IITEI-FS \] .............. ~ acticallyLermnatization, linguistic Analysis tagging toolsFigure 1.
Architecture 1"o1" morphological processing.The segmentation ,nodule was previouslyimplemented in (Alegria et al, 96).
Thissystem applies two-level morphology(Koskenniemi, 83) for the morphologicaldescription and obtains, for each word, itspossible segmentations (one or many) intocomponent morphemes.
The two-level systemhas the following components:?
A set of 24 morphograf~hemic rules,compiled into transducers (Karttunen, 94).?
A lexicon made up of around 70,000 items,grouped into 120 sublexicons and stored ina general lexical database (Aduriz et al,98a).This module has full coverage of free-runningtexts in Basque, giving an average number of2.63 different analyses per word.
The result isthe set of possible morphological segmenta-tions of a word, where each morpheme isassociated with its corresponding features inthe lexicon: part of speech (POS),subcategory, declension case, number,definiteness, as well as syntactic function andsome semantic features.
Therefore, the outputof the segmeutation phase is very rich, asshown in Figure 2 with the word amarengan(Eng.
: on the mother).grammarmother)POS noun)subc~t common:count: +)(an imate  +)(nleasurable "-)aren(of life)(POS decl-suffix)(definite +)(number sing)(case genitive)(synt-f @nouncomp)J gan \](o.1 /(POS decl-suf fix) I(case inossivo) \](synt-f @adverbial)I=>amarengan(o. the mother)POS noun)subcat common)number sing)definite +)case inessive)count +)animate +)measurable -)synt-f @adverbial)iq:e, ure 2.
Morphosynlactic analysis eof (unureugun (l{ng.
: (mThe architecture is a modular envhoument thatallows different ypes of output depending onthe desired level of analysis.
The foundation ofthe architecture lies in the fact lhat TEI-confommnt SGML has been adopted for thecomnmnication allloIlg modules (Ide andVCFOIIiS, 95).
l~'eature shucluleS codedaccoMing TIU are used to represent linguisticinformation, illcluding tile input mM outl)ut ofthe morplaological analyzer.
This reprcscnta-tion rambles the use of SGML-aware parsersand tools, and Call he easily filtered intodifferent formats (Artola et ill., 00).3 Word level morl)hosyntactic analysisThis section Hrst presents the l~henomena lhatmust be covered by the morphosyntacticanalyzer, then explains ils design criteria, andfinally shows implementation and ewfluationdetails.3.1 Phenomena covered by the analyzerThere are several features that emphasized theneed of morphosyntactic almlysis in order tobuild up word level information:I) Multiplicity of values for the same featurein successive morphemes.
In the analysisof Figure 2 there are two different valuesfor the POS (noun and declension suffix),two for the case (genitive and inessive),and two for the syntactic function(@nouncomp and @adverbial).
Multiplevalues at moq~hemc-level will have to bemerged to obtain the word level infermation.2) Words with phrase structure.
Although thesegmentation is done for isolated words,independently of context, in several cases3 l?calurc wtlues starling with the "@" charactercorrespond to syntactic functions, like @noullcomp(norm complement) or @adverbial.the mother)tile resulting structure is oquiwflent o theaualysis of a phrase, as can be seen i,Figure 2.
111 this case, although there aretwo different cases (genitive and inessive),lhe case of the full word-form is simplyinessive.3) Noun ellipsis inside word-lbrms.
A nounellipsis can occur withi, the word(oceasi(mally more than once).
Thisinformation must be made explicit in theresulting analysis.
For example, Figure 3shows the analysis of a single word-forlnlike diotsudumtrel&z (Eng.
: with what I amlelling you).
The first line shows itssegmentation into four morphemes(die tsut+en+ 0 +arekin).
The featurecompl ill tile final analysis conveys theinformation for the verb (l um lelliHg you),that carries information about pc'rson,number and case o1' subject, object andindirect object.
The feature comp2represents an elided noun and itsdeclension stfffix (with).4) l)erivation and composition are productivein Basque.
There arc more than 80 deri-w/tion morphemes (especially suffixes)intensively used in word-fornlatioll.3.2 Design of the word-grammarThe need to impose hierarchical structure uponsequences of morphemes and to build complexconstructions from them forced us to choose aunil'ication mechanism.
This task is currentlyunsolwlble using finite-state techniques, clue tothe growth in size of the resulting network(Beesley, 98).
We have developed a unifica-tion based word-grammar, where each rulecombines information flom differentmot+lJlemes giving as a result a featurestructure for each interpretation of a word-fol'nl, treating the previously mentioned cases.3diotsutI am tellh,g you)POS verb)(tense present)(pers-ergative is)\[(pets-dative 2s)(pers-absol 3s)en(what)(POS relation)(subcat subord)(relator relative(synt-f @rel-clause0()(POS ellipsis)arekin(wire)(POS declension-suffix))(case sociative)(number sing)(definite +)(synt-f @adverbial)=> diotsudanarekin (wi~ what lamtel l ingyou)(POS verb-noun_ellipsis)(case sociative)(number sing)(definite +)(synt-f @adverbial)(compl (POS verb)(subcat subord)(relator relative)(synt-f @tel-clause)(tense present)(pers-ergative is)(pets-dative 2s)(pers-absol 3s))(comp2 (POS noun)(subcat common)(number sing)(definite+)(synt-f @adverbial))Figure 3.
Morphosyntactic analysis of diotxudanarekin (Eng.
: with what I am tellittg you)As a consequence of the rich naorphology ofBasque we decided to control morphotacticphenomena, as much as possible, in themorphological segmentation phase.
Alterna-tively, a model with minimal morphotactictreatment (Ritchie et al, 92) would producetoo many possible analyses after segmentation,which should be reiected in a second phase.Therefore, we propose to separate sequentialmorphotactics (i.e., which sequences ofmorphemes can or cannot combine with eachother to form valid words), which will berecognized by the two-level system by meansof continuation classes, and non-sequentialmorphotactics like long-distance dependenciesthat will be controlled by the word-gmnunar.The general linguistic principles used to defineunification equations in the word-grannnarrules are the following:1) Information risen from the lemma.
ThePOS and semantic features are risen flomthe lemnm.
This principle is applied tocommon nouns, adjectives and adverbs.The lemma also gives the mnnber inproper nouns, pronouns and determiners(see Figure 2).2) lnfornmtion risen from case suffixes.Simple case suffixes provide informationon declension case, number and syntacticfunction.
For example, tile singulargenitive case is given by the suffix -tell inama+ren (Eng.
: of the mother).
Forcompound case suffixes the number anddetermination are taken from the firstsuffix and the case from the second one.First, both suffixes are joined and afterthat they are attached to the lemma.3) Noun ellipsis.
When an ellipsis occurs, thePOS of the whole word-form is expressedby a compound, which indicates both thepresence of the ellipsis (always a noun)and the main POS of the word.For instance, the resulting POS isverb-noun_e l l ips is  when a noun-ellipsis occurs after a verb.
All theinformation corresponding to both units,the explicit lemma and the elided one, isstored (see Figure 3).4) Subordination morl~hemes.
When asubordination morpheme is attached to averb, the verb POS and its featm'es arerisen as well as the subordhmte relationand the syntactic fnnction conveyed by thenaorpheme.5) Degree morphemes attached to adjectives,past participles and adverbs.
The POS anddiotsudan(diotsut + en)(POS verb)(tense present)(relator relative)/ \ /diotsut(POS verb)(tense presentdiotsudanarekin(diotsut + en -I 0 + arekin)(POS verb-noun_ell ipsis)(case sociative)arekin(0 + arekin)(POS noun ellipsis)(case sociative)en(pos?
.
.o(POS e l l ips i s  re la t ion)arekin(case sociative)Figure 4.
Parse tree for diotmuhmarekitl (Eng.
: with what I am lellittg yott)main features arc taken from the lemmaand the features corresponding to thedegrees of comparison (comparative,supcrhttive) aft taken from the degreemorphemes.6) l)efiwttion.
1)miwttion suffixes select tilePOS of the base-form to create the deriw>tive anti in most cases to change its POS.For instance, the suffix -garri (Eng.
: -able)is applied to verbs and the derived word isan adjective.
When the derived form isobtained by means o1' a prefix, it does notchange the POS of the base-form.
In bothcases the morphosyntactic rules add a newfeature representing the structure of tileword as a derivative (root and affixes).7) Composition.
At the moment, we onlytreat the most freqttent kind ofcomposition (noun-noun).
Since Basque issyntactically characterized as a right-headhmguage, the main information of thecompound is taken from the secondelement.8) Order of application of the mofphosyn-tactic phenomena.
When several morpho-syntactic phenomena are applied to thesame leml l la ,  so as to eliminatenonsensical readings, the natural order toconsider them in Basque is the following:lemmas, derbation prefixes, deriwltionsuffixes, composition and inflection (seeFigure 4).9) Morl)hotactic constraints.
Elimination ofillegal sequences of morphemes, such asthose due to long-distance dependencies,which are difficult to restrict by means ofconti.uation classes.The first and second principles are defined locombine information of previously recognizedmOrl~hemcs, but all the other principles arcrelated to both feature-combination a d non-sequential moq~hotactics.3.3 ImplementationWe have chosen the PATR formalism(Shiebcr, 86) for the definition of the moqflm-syntactic rules.
There were two main reasonsfor this choice:?
The formalism is based o.  unification.Unification is adequate for the treatment ofcomplex phenomena (e.g., agreement ofconslituents in case, tmmber and definite-hess) and complex linguistic structures.?
Simplicity.
The grammar is not linked to alinguistic theory, e.g.
GPSG in (Ritchie etal., 92)?
The fact that PATR is simpler thanmore sophisticated formalisms will allowthat in @e future the grammar could beadapted to any of them.25 rules have been defined, distributed in thefollowing way:?
11 rules for the merging of declensionmorphemes and their combination with themain categories,?
9 rules for the description of verbalsubordination morphenles,?
2 general fulcs for derivation,?
1 rule for each of the followingphenomeml: ellipsis, degree of COlnpavisonof adjectives (comparative and SUl)erlative)and noun composition.3.4 Evaluat ionAs a cousequence of the size of the lexicaldatabase and tile extensive treatment ofnlorphosyntax, the resulting analyzer offersfull coverage when applied to real texts,capable of treating unknown words and non-standard forms (dialectal wtriants and typicalerrors).We performed four experilnents to ewtluatetile efficiency of the implemented analyzer(see Table 1).
A 10,832-word text wasrandomly selected from newspapers.
Wemeasured tile number of words per secondanalyzed by the morphosyntactic analyzer andalso by the whole morphological analyzer(results taken on a Sun Ultra 10).
Ill the firstexperiment all tile word-t'ornls were analyzedone-by-one; while ill tile other three experi-ments words with more than one occurrencewere analyzed only once.
Ill the last twoexperimeuts a memory with the analysis of tilemost frequent word-forms (MFW) in Basquewas used, so that only word-forms not foundin the MFW were analyzed.TestdescriptionAllword formsDiffcrentword formsMFW10,000 words(I 5 Mb)MFW50,000 words(75 mb)# words/sccanalyzed Morphosynt.words analyzer10,8323,6921,48353315,1344 40111 95308 270words/seeFullmorphologicalanalyzer13,5Table 1.
Evaluation results.Even when our language is agglutinative, andits morphological phenomena need morecomputational resources to build complex anddeep structures, the results prove tile feasibilityof implementiug efficiently a fifllmorphological analyzer, although efficiencywas not the main concern of ourimplementation.
The system is currently beingapplied to unrestricted texts in real-timeapplications.4 Related work(Koskeniemmi, 83) defined the formalismnamed two-level morphology.
Its maincontributiou was the treatment ofmorl)hographemics and morphotactics.
Theformalisnl has been stmcessfully applied to awide wlriety ot' languages.
(Karttunen, 94) speeds the two-level modelcompiling two-level rules into lexicaltransducers, also increasing the expressivenessof the modelThe morphological analyzer created by(Ritchie et al, 92) does not adopt finite statemechanisms to control morphotacticphenomena.
Their two-level implementationincorporates a straightforward morphotactics,reducing tile number of sublexicons to theindispensable (prefixes, lemmas and suffixes).This approximation would be highlyinefficient for agglutinative languages, as itwould create lnany nonsensical interpretatiolasthat should be rejected by tile unificationphase.
They use the word-grammar for bothmorphotactics and feature-conlbination.ill a similar way, (Trost, 90) make a proposalto combine two-level morphology and non-sequential morphotactics.The PC-Kimmo-V2 system (Antworth, 94)presents an architecture similar to ours appliedto English, using a finite-state segmentationphase before applying a unification-basedgrammar.
(Pr6szdky and Kis, 99) describe a morpho-syntactic analyzer for Hungarian, an agglu-tinative language.
The system clots not use thetwo-level model for segmentation, precom-piling suffix-sequences to improve efficiency.They claim the need of a word-grammar,giving a first outline of its design, althoughthey do not describe it in detail.
(Oflazer, 99) presents a different approach forthe treatment of Turkish, an agglutinativelanguage, applying directly a dependencyparsing scheme to morpheme groups, that is,merging morphosyntax and syntax.
Althoughwe are currently using a similar model toBasque, there are several applications that areword-based and need full morphologicalparsing of each word-t'orm, like the word-oriented Constraint Graminar formalism fordisambiguation (Karlsson et aI., 95).Conc lus ionWe propose a model for fllll morphologicalanalysis iutegrating two different components.On tile one hand, the two-level formalismdeals with morphographenfics and sequentialmorphotactics and, on the other hand, aunil\]cation-based word-grammar combines lhegranlll-iatical in\['ornlatioli defined in illoi'-phelllOS alld also handles COlllplcx illori)ho-tactics.Early application of sCqtloniial I/lOrl)hotacticconslraints dtu-ing the segmentation processavoids all excessive laUlllber of nleaninglesssegmentation possibilities before thecoulputationally lllOlO expensive unificationprocess.
Unification permits lhe resohition of awide variety of morl)hological phenonlena,like ellipsis, thal force the definition of:complex and deep structures Io roprosenl theoutput of the analyzer.This design allowed us io develop a fullcoverage allalyzor that processes efficientlyunrestricted loxis in Basque, a stronglyagglulinafive langttage.The anaiyzcl" has bccll integrated ill a gCllOl'alfranlework for the l)lOCessing of l~asquc, withall the linguistic inodulos communicating byl l leallS O\[: foattll'C stltlClll l 'eS ill accord  {o theprinciples of ihe Text Encoding Initiative.AcknowledgementsThis research was partially supported by theBasque Government, the University of the\]71aS(lUe Cotlntry {/lid the CICYq' (Cotllisidnlntcrministorial de Ciencia y Tecnologfil).ReferencesAduriz 1., Aldczabal I., Ansa ()., Arlola X., I)faz deIlarraza A., Insau.~li .I.M.
(1998a) EI)BL: aMttlli-l~ttrposed Lexica/ Sttl)l)c;rl .lot theTreatment of Ba,s'que.
Proceedings of the l;irstInlernational Confcncncc on l Auiguagc Resourcesand Ewduation, Granada.Aduriz I., Agirre E., Aldczabal 1., Alegria 1., AnsaO., Arrcgi X., Arriola J.M., ArtolaX., I)faz delhu'raza A., Ezciza N., Gqicnola K., Maritxahu"A., Maritxalar M., Oronoz M., Sarasola K.,Soroa A., Urizar R., Urkia M. (1998b) AFramework .for the Automatic Pmce.vsi#~g (if"Basqtte.
Proceedings o1 the First Ii~ternationalCon \[elel i te on Lall.gtlagc Resources turfEvaluation, Granada.Aduriz I., Alcgria I., Arriohl J.M., Artola X., l)fazdo Ilarraza A., Ecciza N., Gojcnola K.,Maritxalar M. (1995) Di\[.ferelt!
Issues in theDesign qf a lemmatizer/Tagger fo Ba,s'qtte.
FromTcxls to Tags: Issues in Mullilingual LanguageAnalysis.
ACL SIGI)AT Workshop, l)ublin.Alcgria 1., Art(Ha X., Sarasoht K., Urkia M. (1996)Automatic moqdzological analysis of Basque.IAtcrary and IAnguistic Computing, 11 (4): 193-203.
Oxford University.Aniworlh E. I.. (1994) Morphological Par, ffng witha lhl(fication-ba,s'ed Word Grcmmutr.
NorlhTe, xas Natural l~anguage Processing Workshop,Texas.Arlola X., Dfaz de \]larraza A., Ezciza N., Oo.icnohiK., Marilxahu' A., Soma A.
(2000) A proposalfor the integration of NLP tools using SGML-lagged documeHls.
Proceedings of ll~e SecondCotfforence or1 Language Resources andEvaltmfion (IA~,EC 2000).
Athens, Greece 2000.Bcesl%, K. (1998)AraDic Morphological Analysis(m the lnlernet, l'rocccdings of the InternationalConference on Mulii-IAngual Computing (Arabic& lhlglish), Cambridge.Hudson R. (1990) English Word Grammmar.Oxford: Basil Blackwcll.ldc N., Vcronis J. K. (1995) Text-Ettcoding hHtia-tire, Bac:kgmtmd and Context.
Kluwcr AcademicPublishers.Karlsson F., Voulilaincn A., Heikkiht J., Anltila A.
(1995) Constrai, t Gnmmmr: A lxm,?tmge-i#ldcpcndent System Jor Pm:ffng Um'estricledText, Mouton do Gruyicr ed..Kartmnen 1,.
(1994) Con,s'tructin~ l,e.vical7)'ansdttcers.
Proc.
of CO13NG'94, 406-411.Koskcnniemi, K, (1983) Two-level Mc;qdlo\[ogy: Age,eral Comptttational Model ./br Word-FormRecognition and Pmduclioth University ofIlclsinki, l)clmrtmcnt of General IAnguisiics.l~ublications " 11.
()flazcr K (1999) l)epetMe/t O' Parsing, with a,E.rtended I:inite State Approac\]t. ACL'99,Maryland.Pr6sz6ky G., Kis B (1999)A Unificati(m-hascdApl~roach to Moqdto-syntactic I'arsitl<~ ofAgghttinative and Other (Highly) lnjlectionalLanguages.
ACtd99, Ma,yhmd.Ritchie G., Pulhnan S. G., FJlack A. W., Russcl G.J.
(1992) Comlmtational Moudu)logy: PracticalMechanism,s'.fi)r the l#lglish l,exico,.
ACL-MITSeries on Natural Language Processing, MITPress.Shicbcr S. M. (1986) At/ lntroductiotz toUnification-Based Approaches to Grammar.CSLI, Slanford.Sproat R. (1992) Morphology anU Computcaion.ACL-MIT Press series in Natural LanguageProcessing.Trost It.
(1990) The application of two-levelmorldzo/ogy to rzon-concatenative Germanmoqgtology.
COIANG'90, Hclsinki.7
