You'll Take the High Road and I'll Take the Low Road:Using a Third Language to hnprove Bilingual Word AlignmentLars BorinDepartment of Linguistics, Uppsala UniversityBox 527SE-751 20 Uppsala, SwedenLars.Borin@ling.uu.seAbstractWhile language-independent selztence align-ment programs typically achieve a recall in the90 percent range, tile same cannot be said aboutword alignment systems, where normal recallfigures tend to fall somewhere between 20 and40 percent, in tile language-indepeudent case.As words (and phrases) for wlrious reasonsare more interesting to align than sentences,we need methods to increase word alignmentrecall, preferably without sacrificing precision.This paper reports on a series of experimentswith pivot aligtunent, which is tile use of one ormore additional hmguages to improve bilingualword aligment.
Tile conclusion is that in amultilingual parallel corpus, pivot alignment isa safe way to iucrcase word alignment recallwithout lowering the precision.1 IntroductionFor about a decade and a half now, researchersin Natural language processing (NLP) andgeneral and applied linguistics have beenworking with parallel corpora, i.e., in theprototypical case corpora consisting of originaltexts in some soume language (SL) togetherwith their translations into one oi" more targethmguages (TL).
In general linguistics, theyare used--in tile same fashion as monolingualcorpora--as handy sources of authenticlanguage.
In computational linguistics andhmguage engineering, various methods for(semi-)automatic extraction from such corporaof, among others, translation equiwdents, havebeen explored.2 Why is word alignment moreinteresting and why is it difficult?Alignment--tile explicit linking of items in theSL and TL texts judged to correspond to eachother~is a prerequisite for the extraction oftranslation cquiwdents fi'om parallel corpora,and tile granularity of tile alignment naturallydetermines what kind of translation units youcan get out of these resources.
With sentencealigmnent, you get data which can be usedin, e.g., translation memories.
If you wantto build bi- or multilingual lexica for machinetranslation systems (or for people), however,you want to be able to align parallel texts onthe word (and phrase) level.
This is because,in the last two decades, NLP grammarshavc become increasingly lexicalized, andgranlnlars 1'o1" machine translation--as opposedto translation melnories, or example-basedmachine translation, neither of which usesa grammar in any interesting sense of tileword--forna no exception in this regard.The entries of tile lexicon, which is themajor repository of linguistic knowledge ina lexicalized gramnlar, are mainly made upof units oil tile linguistic levels of words andphrases.The problem here is that sentence alignmentis a fairly well-understood problem, butword alignment is much less so.
This meansthat while language-independent sentencealignment programs typically achieve a recallin the 90 percent range, the same cannot be saidabout word alignment systems, where nornmlrecall ligures tend to fall somewhere between20 and 40 percent, in the language-independentcase.
Thus, we need methods to increase wordalignment recall, preferably without sacrificing97precision.There are many conceivable reasons for wordalignment being less 'effective' than sentencealignment.
Different language structuresensure that words comparatively more seldomstand in a one-to-one relationship between thelanguages in a parallel text, because, e.g.,?
SL function words may correspond toTL grammatical structural features, i.e.morphology or syntax, or even to nothingat all, if the TL happens not to expressthe feature in question.
At the sametime, function words tend to display ahigh type frequency, both because of highfunctional oad (i.e., they are needed allover the place) and because they tend tobe uninflected (i.e.
each function wordis typically represented by one text wordtype, while content words tend to appearin several inflectional variants).
This ofcourse means that function words willaccount for a relatively large share ofthe differences in recall figures betweensentence and word alignment;?
orthographic conventions may disagree onwhere word divisions should be written,as when compounds are written as severalwords in English, but as single wordsin German or Swedish, the extreme casebeing that some orthographies get alngentirely without word divisions;?
word alignment must by necessity(because word orders differ betweenlanguages) work with word types ratherthan with word tokens, while sentenceI Alignment recall is here understood as the numberof units aligned by the alignment program divided bythe total number of correct alignments (established byindependent means, normally by human annotation).Precisiolz is the number of correct alignments (againestablished by independent means) divided by thenumber o1' units aligned by the alignment program (i.e.,the numerator in the recall calculation).
We will not inthis paper go into a discussion of null alignments ( ourcelanguage units having no correspondence in the targetlanguage xpression) or partial alignments (part, but notall, of a phrase aligned), as we believe that he results wepresent here are not dependent on a particular treatmentof thcse--admiuedly troublesome--phenomena.alignment always works with sentencetokens, 2 i.e., it relies on linear order.This means that polysemy (one typein the SL corresponding to severaltypes in the TL), homonymy (severaltypes in the SL corresponding to onetype in the TL), and combinations ofpolysemy and homonymy will disrupt hecorrespondence even between structurallysimilar languages;Thus, the circumstance that linear ordercannot be used to constrain word alignment- -beyond the restriction that putative wordalignments must appear in one and thesame sentence alignment unit--together withthe other factors .just mentioned, conspireto make word alignment a much harderproblem than sentence alignment in thelanguage-independent case.
33 Improving word alignment bycombining knowledge sourcesThe project in which the research reportedhere has been carried out, the ETAP project(see section 8, below), is a parallel translationcorpus project, the aim of which is to createan annotated--understood as part-of-speech(POS) tagged and aligned--multi l ingualtranslation corpus, which will be used as thebasis for the development of methods andtools for the automatic extraction of translationequivalents.Lately, we have been concentrating onfinding good ways to improve word alignment.Tile word alignment system we currently use(which was developed in a sister projectin our depamnent, the PLUG project; seeSfigvall Hein (to appear)) works itel'ativelywith many kinds of information sources, andit seems that this is a good way to proceed.Distributional parallelism, coocurrence, string2In parallel corpus alignment, hat is, but not e.g.
insearching intranslation memories.3We must stress that we are talking about thela,guage-i, dependellt case here.
For any particularlanguage pair, language-specific linguistic (and possiblyother) information can be used to improve both sentenceand word alignment, although the former will probablystill stay ahead of the latter in terms of perfor,nance.98similarity (both between and within languages),and part of speech are some of the informationsources used, and also (heuristically based)stemming to increase type frequencies for thedistributional measures (see, e.g.
Tiedemann(to appear a), Tiedemann (to appear b);Molamed (1995), Melamed (1998)).
111 OUl"work in the ETAP proiect we are looking foradditional such information sources, and so farwe have coricoiltratod our ell:errs ori oxploririglinguistically rich information, such as wordsimilarity (Berth, 1998) and the combinationOf word alignlllent and POS taggillg (Borill, toappear a).There must certainly exist other sources ofinformation, in addition t:o those mentionedabove, lhat carl be used to ilnprovo wordalignlnent.
This paper discusses one particularsuch source, namely the use of a third hlnguagein the aligmnent process.
Apart fronl an earlierpresentation by the present author (Berth, toappear b), I have not seen any mention inthe literature of the possibility of using athird language in this way for improving wordalignmorit.
Simard (1999) describes how theuse of a third language can be brought tobear upon the simpler problem of senlencealignment, but he does not consider the harderproblem of word alignmenl.
Perhaps it hasnot being thought of for the silnplc reason thatit is possible only with ###ulUlingual parallelcorpora, and--for obvious reasons--not withb/lingual corpora, which has been the kind ofparallel corpus that has received nlost attentionfrom researchers in the field.4 Pivot alignmentSince the third language acts as, as it were,a pivot for the alignment of the two otherlanguages, we refer to the method as pivotalignment, and it works as follows, with threelanguages, e.g.
Swedish (SE), Polish (PL)and Serbian-Bosnian-Croatian (SBC), wherethe aim is to align Swedish with the other twolanguages on the word level....Perform the pairwise alignments SE-~PL,SE-->SBC, PL--->SBC, and SBC-oPL;Check whether there exist alignedwords on the indirect 'alignment path '4SE-oSFJC-oPL, which are not on thedirect path SE--->PL.
If there are, add themto the SE-oPL alignnaents.Do the same for the indirect pathSE-->PL-oSBC and the direct pathSE-oSBCIn order lor this procedure to work, we mustbelieve that1.
there will be differences in tile SE-+PLand SE--bSBC alignments, and2.
that these dilTerenees will 'survive' thePI,---bSBC and SBC-->PL aligments.
5Hypothesis (1) seems plausible, since theword alignment system used (Tiedemann (toappear a), Tiedenlann (to appear b)) actuallyaheady utilizes several kinds of informationto align the words in the two texts.
Inparticuhu, it uses distributional information,cooccurrence statistics, iterative size reduction,'naive' stemming, and string simihuity toselect arid rank word alignment carididates(but #*el linear order; cf.
also section 3above).
Thus it is fully conceiwtble, e.g.,that distributional information will provideone o t' the links and word similarity theother in a three-language path, such asSE-->PL--->SBC, 6while synonymy or polysemy( i .e .
,  distributional differences; see above) will4It is this metaphor of the alignments going bydifferent 'paths' or 'roads' to lhe salne goal which hasinspired nle lo borrow the firsl part of the title of thispaper frolll tile chorus of tile song "Loeb LolllOlld".5Incidentally, the indirect path could be extendedwith lilt)re lallgtlaoes, e.g.
Swedish--> Polish--+E,lglish-o Spanish, etc., but we have not investigated thispossibility, although we explore the possibility of usingseveral additional languages in parallel, below.6This is perhaps intuitively the most likelysituation in this particular case, since Polish andScrbian-Bosnian-Croatian are fairly closely rchltedSlavic languages lhat share many easily recognizablecognates, while both ~.ll'e lllHch lllOrc reinoiely related toSwedish99languagesalignedse-sbc+ se-pl-sbcse-pl+ se-sbc-plSO-OS+ se-en-esse-Oll+ se -os -0nfoundlinks82183574618789595499links in recallstandard429 19.11%19.35%370 15.41%16.49%454 19.16%20.92%442 21.49%22.40%correct partly not(C) con: (PC) con:57 17 8158 17 837 14 6441 14 665 14 87 172 14 970 14 112 272 14 13precision, precisioncorrect C + PC69.51% 90.24%69.88% 90.36%64.91% 89.47%67.21% 90.16%74.71% 90.80%75.79% 90.53%73.68% 88.42%72.73% 86.87%Table 1."
First pivot alignment experiment results (null links in standard not counted) \[From Borin (to appear b)\]prevent he first link to be made on the directpath SE-+SBC.5 An experiment with pivotalignmentIn recent work (Borin, to appear b), we reportedon a small preliminary experiment to test thefeasibility of the method.
We proceeded asfollows:1.
The ETAP IVTI corpus was used forthe experiment.
This is a five-languageparallel translation corpus of text fromthe Swedish newspaper for immigrants(Invandrartidningen; the English versionis called News and Views).
Swedishis the source language, and the otherfour languages are English (EN), Polish,Serbian-Bosnian-Croatian and Spanish(ES).
The IVTI corpus has roughly100,000 words of text in each language;2.
The PLUG link annotator (Merkel (1999),Merkel et al (to appear )) wasused to produce evaluation standards("gold standards") for the followingalignment directions: SE-+PL, SE-+SBC,PL--+SBC, SBC---,'PL in one group, andSE-+EN, SE-+ES, EN--+ES, ES-+EN inthe other.
500 words were sampledrandomly fl'om the Swedish source text,and the standards with Swedish as thesource were made manually by me fromthis sample.
The target units of these..standards were then used as the basis forthe manual establishment (again by me)of the various target language alignmentevaluation standards.
Because of nulllinks, misaligned or differently alignedsentences, etc., the size of the evaluationstandards varied fi'om 366 to 500 words;In addition to the already word alignedSE--+{EN,ES,PL, SBC}, we aligned theother language pairs necessary for theexperiment;The evaluation function in the aligmnentsystem was used to calculate recall andprecision for each word alignment.
Inaddition to this, we manually extractedthe additional inks, if any, that wouldbe found on the indirect path through thethird language.The null links mentioned in (2) above werelargely due to the sampling procedure choosingmany function words, which often (also in thiscase) are troublesome in the context of findinggood translation equivalents, since they maynot correspond to words in the TL (see section2 above).The results of the preliminary experiment areshown in Table 1.We see that only a few units survived thetrip through two languages, but out of thosethat did, most contributed positively to thetotal result.
SE-+ES and SE-+PL were thealignments which benefitted most from pivot100languagesaligned (standard)sc-pl (501 )+ se-en-pl+ se-es-pl+ se-sbc-plsc-cs (501)+ Se-OIl-CS+ se-i~l-esso-on (501)+ SC-eS-Cll+ se-pl-ense-sbc (501)+ sc-pl-sbcCOI'I'{~Cglillks11222616796139721372HotCOITeCt1113I1121accumttlated recall precisionconvct+2+2+5+9+9+3+1224.55%24.95%24.95%25.75%26.35%35.93%37.9237.13%38.52%91.06%91.20%91.20%91.47%91.67%92.78%92.63%93.01%92.75%30.14% 92.05%+7 31.74% 91.82%+1 30.54% 92.16%+8 31 .94% 91 .87%28.94% 94.48%+2 29.34% 94.56%Table 2."
New pivot aligmnent experiment results(null links i J1 stamlard not counted,"correct and partly correct lillk.s" counted together)alignment (through EN and SBC, respectively),while the result wets insignificant for SE-+SBCand perhaps even detrimental in the case ofSE--+EN.We saw these results as suggestive, ratherthan conclusive.
It certainly seemed thatthe closer genetic relatedness of the twoShtvic languages worked to our advantage,but we concluded that we needed to domore experiments, bolh with more languagecombinations and with a modilied samplingprocedure.
In pmticular, we wanted to get rido1' the problematic function words (see above).Since the recall is faMy low to start with,even a few correct additional alignments meana great deal for the overall performance of theword alignment system.
Thus, we thought hatthis approach would be worth pursuing t'urther.6 A new experiment with pivotalignmentTo coufirm these results, we redesigned slightlyand extended our experimental procedure, intile following way.
A new sampling o1' the samecorpus was performed, but this time we lirstconstructed a stop word list consisting of the 50most frequent word types in the Swedish partof the IVT 1 corpus, as a language-independentway of approximating the set o1' function wordsin the language.
Thus, we had a new sample,with more content words, to compare with theprevious one, tile hyt~othesis being that a largerpercentage of content words would be able tocontribute more links in the pivot alignmentprocess.We also added some new hmguagecombinatious, so that we now would beable to whether there is a difference in usingSpanish as a pivot in aligning Swedish andEnglish, as opposed to using Polish.
We alsoinvestigated what the result would be of usingmore than one additional language in parallel.The new pivot alignment paths investigated(in addition to the ones investigated in the lirstexperiment) are represented by the following'language triads':?
SE-->EN-~PL?
SE--~ES-+PL?
SE-->PL-+EN?
SE-->PL-+ESThe hypothesis wets that the new setupwould make the possible effect of close geneticrelatedness more discernible, which indeedseems to be the case (see below).The results of the new experiment are shownin Table 2.
We see that101?
initial (non-pivot alignment) recall hasgone up quite a bit, presumably becausefunction words have been avoided in thestandard;?
initial alignment precision still remains atthe same high level as before;?
all but two of the alignments added bypivot alignment are correct, i.e.
recall israised without a decrease in precision;?
difl~rent pivot languages add differentalignments, i.e.
there seems to be acunmlative positive effect fiom addingmore languages;?
the degree of relatedness of the languagesin a triad seems to play a role for howwell pivot alignment will work for theparticular triad.7 Discussion and conclusionsWith the new experimental setup, we conlirmedthe results fiom the earlier experiment, i.e.,recall increases, but precision does not suffer.This tendency is even more marked in thenew series of experiments, in addition, thereseems to be a clear division along geneticlines; Polish is the best pivot language forSwedish-Serbian-Bosnian-Croatian alig ment,and vice versa, while Spanish works bettertogether with English.
Another subcorpus inthe ETAP project contains a Finnish part, andwe aim at investigating the effects of using thisnon-Indo-European language (all the languagesare Indo-European in the two experimentsdescribed here) as one of the languages in asimilar experimentIt seemed that the choice of content words (orrather: lower-frequency words) over functionwords did lead to a better esult, but this shouldbe t'urther investigated.We also see that the more languages we add,the better the results become, i.e., differentadditional anguages complement each other.In general, there was little overlap in thecontributions that each language added to thefinal result.It should be mentioned at this point, thatthe sampling and annotation procedure useddid not allow us to check up on incorrectalignments which may have propagatedthrough the pivot language.
The samplingprocedure would have to be redesigned for thisto be possible, 7 which we plan to do in thefuture.For the same reason, we do not have allthe data needed to calculate the significanceof the results.
Thus, the results will have toremain suggestive for the time being, althoughthe suggestion is strong that pivot alignmentworks the way it was hypothesized to work.In sc.
:nmary, the results are encouraging, inthat the links added through pivot alignmentwere largely correct links, i.e.
pivot alignmentcould be expected to make a positive and safecontribution--i.e, increasing recall withoutlowering precision--in a word alignmentsystem as one of many independent knowledgesources.8 AcknowledgementsThe research reported here was carried outwithin the ETAP project (Borin, to appearc), supported by the Bank of SwedenTercentenary Foundation as part of the researchprogramme Translation and Interpreting--aMeeting between Languages and Cultures.
Seehttp://www.translation.su.se/Leif-J6ran Olsson, who is responsible forsystems development in the ETAP project,wrote most of the software which made theexperiment reported here possible.I wish to thank the members of the PLUGproject for generously letting us use the Uplugsystem and the PLUG link annotator.7To do this, you would sample sentences instead ofsampling words randomly throt, ghout he corpus, whichis the way it is done at present.
Actually, the samplingand annotation software was devised for strictly bilingualword alignment evaluation, and not t"o1" the purposewhich it has been pressed into serving here.102ReferencesLars Borin.
1998.
Linguistics isn't always theanswer: Word comparison in computationallinguistics.
In The l lth Nordic Confereuceon Computatioual Linguistics.
NODALIDA'98 Proceedings, pages 140-151.
Centerfor Sprogteknologi and Dept.
of Generaland Applied Linguistics, University ofCopenhagen.Lars Borin.
to appear a. Alignment andtagging.
In Parallel Corpora, ParallelWorlds.
Dept.
of Linguistics, UppsahtUniversity.Lars Borin.
to appear b. Pivot alignment.
InProceedings of the 12th Nordic Conferenceou Compulatiomtl Liuguislics (Nodalida99).Lars Borin.
to appear c. The ETAPproject - -  a presentation and status report.ETAP research report etap-rr-01, Dept.
ofLinguistics, Uppsala University.I.
Dan Mehtmed.
1995.
Automatic ewfluationand uniform filter cascades for inducingN-best translation lexicons.
In l'roceediugsq\[" the Thi;zl Worksho I) ou Ve O, LargeCmpora.i.
Dan Melamed.
1998.
Word-to-word modelsof translational equiwflence.
TechnicalReport IRCS Technical Report -#98-08,Department of Computer and InformationScience, University of Pennsylwmia.Magnus Merkel.
1999.
Undelwlaudingam/ Enhanciug Trauslatiou I) 3, ParallelText Processing.
Dept.
of Computer andInformation Science, Link6ping University.Magnus Merkei, Mikael Andersson, and LarsAhrenbmg.
to appear.
The PLUG LinkAnnotator - interactive construction of datafroln parallel corpora.
In PcuMlel Corpolzt,Parallel Worlds.
Dept.
of Linguistics,Uppsala University.Anna Sagvall Hein.
to appear.
The PLUGproject: Parallel corpora in Link(Sping,Uppsala, G~3teborg: Aims and achievements.In Parallel Corpora, Parallel Worlds.
Dept.of  Linguistics, Uppsala University.Michel Simard.
1999.
Three languages arebetter than two.
In Proceediugs of the 1999Joint SIGI)AT Conference on Eml)iricalMethods iu Natural Lauguage P~vcessingand Ve O, Large Cowora, pages 2-11.J6rg Tiedemann.
to appear a. Uplug - amodular corpus tool for parallel corpora.
InParallel Corpora, l'alz~llel Worlds.
Dept.
ofLinguistics, Uppsala University.J6rg Tiedemann.
to appear b.
Word alignmentstep by step.
In Proceediugs q/' the12th Nordic Confereuce ou CompulalioualLiuguis'tics (Nodalida99).103
