Matching a tone-based and tune-based approach to Englishintonation for concept-to-speech generationElke  TeichUniversitgt des Saarlandes, Saarbr{icken & University of SydneyCather ine  I. Watson  and Cdci le Pere i raMacquarie University, SydneyAbst ractTlle paper describes the results of a compari-son of two annotation systems for isstoslal;ion,the tone-based ToBI al)proach and the 1;une-based api)roach proposed by Systemic Func-ti(mal Grammar (SFO).
The goal of this compar-ison is to detine a mapping between the two sys-tems tbr the purpose of concept-to-speech gen-eration of English.
Since ToB: is widely usedin Sl)eech synthesis and SFG is widely used innal;ural language generation and oft~rs a lin-guistically motivated aecollnt of intonation, it;appears a promising step to comt)ine the twoapproaches for concept-to-speech.
A corpus ofEnglish utterances has been analysed with both~\].~()13I and SFG categories; eomparison of theanalysis results has lead to the identification ofsome basic equivalents between the two systemson which a mapping can be based.1 In t roduct ionThe pallet describes the main results of a con>parison of /;he ToB: (Tone-and-Break-Indices)ai)proach (Pierrehumbert, 1.9801 Silverman el;al.., 19961 to annotating English speech datawith information about intonation and one ofthe British School approaches (e.g., Brazil et al(1980)), Systenfie Fmmtional Grammar (SFO;(Halliday, 19671 Halliday, 1970)).
The goal ofthis comparison is the definition of a mappingbetween the two systems.This attempt has a two-fbld motiw~tion.First, it is motivated by computational ppli-cation in concept-to-si)eech systems, in whichtext in spoken mode is automatically generatedfrom an underlying abstract lneaning represen-tation, it is widely acknowledged that in orderfor spoken language technology to gain wideracceptance, it has to improve on the quality ofoutput considerably.
Itere, appropriate intona-tion is one of the major factors (ct'.
Cole etal.
(1995)).
The concrete goal we are pursu-ing is to connect an oil-the-shelf speech syn-thesizer for English (FESTIVAL; (Black et al,1998)) with an automatic text generation sys-tem tbr English based on SFO (Matthiessen &Bateman, 19911.
Since in the SFO approach, in-tonation is accounted for as part of grammarrather than as an independent component, it isstraightforward to extend the grammatical re-sources of a systemically based text generationsystem with an account of intonation (cf Teichet al (1.997) iml)lenmnting such all approach forGerman concet/t-to-speech generation).
Con-necting such a system to a speech synthesizerrequires mapping the OUtl)ut of the generatorto the input requirements of the st)eech synth(>sizer.
In the FESTIVAL systei11, the intonation ofthe text to be synthesized can be manipulated1)y ~mnotation with TOBI labels.
Therefore, amapl)ing betweeIl the SFC and the ToBI anno-tation systems is required.Second, there is a theoretical lnotivation.With a mapping between tile ToBI and the slposystems for intonation almotation, it will bepossible to link the 1)honetic analysis of speechdata to an interpretation f intonational mean-ing as it is proposed by SFO.
Existing speechcorpora that are acoustically analysed and an-notated with ToBI tail then be used to testsome of the assumptions brought forward bySFO about the natm:e of intonation.
Also, witha mapping between ~oBI and SFG annotations,an exchange of annotated corpora between ToBIand SFO users would be possible.We report on the analysis of a sl)eech cor-pus compiled fl'om Halliday (1970) with ToBIand SFO labels (See.
3).
The intonation analy-sis is based on an acoustic analysis of the speechdata in terms of fundamental frequency (F0).829The data are represented in EMU (Cassidy &;Harrington, 1996), a database system for stor-ing speech data that provides for a nmltiple-tier analysis of acoustic (e.g., F0 contour andspeech wavetbrm) and phonological (segmentaland suprasegmental) features.
We present hemajor differences and commonalities betweenToBI and SFO (See.
2).
On the basis of thecorpus analysis, we identify matches betweenthe tunes assmned by Halliday and unique se-quences of To\]~I tones (See.
4).
We concludewith a smmnary and a sketch of future work.2 In tonat ion  Annotat ionThe majority of text-to-speech systems that al-low for the manipulation of an input string soas to control intonation employ the ToBI system(Silverman et al, 19961, which is based on theautosegmental-metrical approach originally setup by Pierrehumbert (19801 to describe Amer-ican English intonation.
Versions of ToBI forother languages have been developed, e.g., Griceet al (19961 for German, and are also widelyused in computational contexts.
One major the-oretical difference between the ToBI approachand the British School approaches, uch as theone advocated by SFG, is that in the latter thereis a built-in focus on the relation between into-mttion and nmaning.
In spG, intonation con-tours are distinguished according to their di, ffcrcntial meanings, i.e., they label pitch move-ments that are commonly interpreted by thespeakers of (British) English as having quitedifferent pragmatic purport (cf.
Teich et al(1997)).
This is what snakes the SFO approachattractive in the context of concept-to-speechgeneration, in which it is crucial to be ableto represent criteria for selecting an intonationcontour appropriate in a given context.
TOBI,on the other hand, is a phonetic-phonologicalannotation scheme tbr intonation.
Since it iswidely used, there exist nmnerous tools sup-porting analysis with a high degree of analyt-ical rigor.
It seems theretbre doubly significantto combine the two approaches in an attempt oachieve high-quality synthesized speech output.While clearly some fimdamental theoreticalditferences exist between the ToBI and SFG ap-proaches, more technically there is a basic com-mortality.
Any annotation scheme tbr intonationnmst establish three principal constructs for therepresentation f intonation: the units of into-nation, a set of categories that describe the pitchmovement occurring in that unit, and a set oflabels that mark the nuclear stress oi1 which thepitch movement is realised.In the remainder of this section we briefly de-scribe how these constructs are realised in ToBI(Sec.
2.1) and in SFG (See.
2.2) and sketch themQor differences between them.2.1 ToBIThere are two tiers to the ToBI analysis, thetonal analysis and the analysis of the strengthof the word boundaries, which is referred to asthe "break index".
The Tom tones are eitherhigh (H) or low (L).
The break index gives thestrength of a word's association with the tbl-lowing word, where 0 is the strongest perceivedconjoining and 4 is the most disjoint (Beckmangc Ayers, 19971.
In our analysis (See.
3), weonly consider the tonal part of TOBI.The Tom intonational phonology modelaligns a tune with the words of an utterance(cf.
Harrington 8c Cassidy (1999)), wherc someof these words are accented.
The words of anutterance are grouped into phrases.
There aretwo types of phrases, intonational and inter-mediate ph, mses.
Utterances always consist ofone or more intonational phrases which iu tm:nconsist of one or lnore intermediate phrases.The break between two intonational 1)hrases isgreater than 1)etween two intermediate )hrases,the bl'eak index being 4 in the former case and3 or 2 in the latter.Words that have prominence in a phrase orutterance m:e accented (sentence level stress).Unlike lexical stress which is usually fixed, sen-tence level stress is variable.
When a wordcarries sentence level stress, a pitch accent isassociated with the syllable of primary stress.Pitch accents are denoted by *.
The most com-mon pitch accent is an H*, which is usuallyrealised as a pitch peak near tim vowel in theprimary stressed syllable, it is also possible tohave pitch accents which are a combination of apitch movement towards and including a peakor trough.
One sudl bitonal accent is L+H*,which moves from a low in pitch towards a high.Intermediate and intonational phrases carryedge tones.
Intermediate phrases carry phrasetones, indicated by - .
The phrase tone L- is lowpitch following the final pitch accent of a phrase.830H*Margaret's looking for youL%L-c)eqC)C)C)22600 22800 23000 23200 23400time (ms)(a)23600 23800is there any more news of the Frencho H* L*electionsH%H-24500 25000 25500 26000time (ms)(b)in the farH*25000H%L-corner of that field the!1t*FI.T tUK,25500 26000 26500footpathL%L-goes over a stileH*27000 27500 28000time (ms)(c)Figure 1: Examples of' the pitch contours of three utterances in the corpus, mid the associated ToI\]Ilabels831tone 1tone 2tone 3tone 4tone 5\ (fidl)conveys certainty/ (rico)conveys uncertainty- -  (level/low rise)"continuation tone"\ /  (fall-rise)seems certain (reservation)/ \  (rise-fall)seems uncertain (strongly assertive)Figure 2: SFC tones and their meaningsThe phrase tone H- represents high pitdt follow-ing the last pitch accent.
Tile tone associatedwith an intonation phrase is a boundary toneand is indicated by %.
The boundary tone H%represents a final rise and the L% boundary toneis typically interpreted as the absence of a finalrise (cf.
Ladd (1996)).Every intermediate phrase must have at leastone pitch accent.
By definition, the last ac-cented word in any intermediate phrase is al-ways the nuclear accented word, and it is usu-ally perceived as more prominent han any otheraccented word.
The utterance (a) in Fig.
1 isproduced by an H'L-L% combination and typ-ically interpreted as a neutral declarative.
Thesecond utterance (b) has a H 'L 'H -H% combi-nation (yes/no question).
The final example(c) illustrates a complex ntterance, made up ofmore than one intonation phrase.2.2 SFGAccording to SFG the unit to which intonationis attr ibuted is the tone group.
A tone groupconsists of.feet, and feet consist of syllables.
Atone group carries a tune or tone, which can befalling (tone 1), rising (tone 2), level (tone 3),faning-risiug (tone 4), or rising-f~lling (tone 5).See Fig.
2 giving these five options with theirapproximate pragmatic meanings.
The exam-ples in Fig.
3 show how tone is annotated inSFG: the nmnber gives the kind of tone, thedouble slashes snark the tone group boundariesand the single slashes mark feet.
Also, theremay be combinations of different; tones in oneutterance, e.g., tone 4 followed by tone 1 (ex-ample (c) in Fig.
3).Each tone group contains an element whichcarries the nuclear stress, called Tonic.
In thedefault case, the Tonic is placed on the last lex-(a) / /1 Margaret's / looking for you / /(b) / /2 A is there / any more / news of the / Iq-enche/ leet ions/ /(c) / /4  A in the/ far corner of that/f ield the / /  1 foot-path goes / over a / sq;i\]e_//Figure 3: Examples of SFG labellingical elenmnt in tile tone group (unmarked nu-clear stress).
In marked cases, the Tonic canbe placed on other elements in the tone group.For an example of the tbrmer see (b) in Fig.
3(Tonic denoted by underlining); an example ofthe latter is (a) in Fig.
3.The Tonic represents the nuclear stress andis part of the tonic segment of the tone group.If the Tonic does not fall on the frst  syllable ofthe tone group, there is an element precedingit, called the pretonic segment.
It carries a so-called Pretonic stress (see (b) in Fig.3).2.3 P re l iminary  compar i sonOn a technical level, the major differences wecan observe between the ToBI and SFG annota-tion schemata of intonation are the following.Uni ts .
While there is a rough cor-respondence between the intonationphrase/intermediate phrase in ToB~ andthe tone group in SFG (cf.
Harrington &Cassidy (1999)), in Tom the refit of the foot isnot acknowledged.P i tch  movement .
While in ToBI, the prim-itives of description of pitch movement are dis-tinct highs (It) and lows (L), where a particularpitch movement is described by a sequence ofhighs and/or lows in the pitch, in SFC the prim-itive of description is the tune, i.e., a relativeconcept, such as a rising, falling or level tune.Nuc lear  stress.
While in ToBI, the mmlearstress is marked by the last starred tone in thesequence of tones and is thus only implicitly in-dicated in the annotation, SFG marks nuclearstress explicitly by marking up the Tonic)While there is a basic match in terms of ac-counting for the pitch movement and we castthus expect to be able to recast ToBI tone se-quences as SFC tones, we may encounter someproblems due to the non-acknowledgement oftile unit of foot in ToBI on the one hand, anddue to ToBI marking up pitch accents otherICE Sec.
2.1, however: the nuclear stress in Tom isby definition the last starred tone.832than the nuclear stress, on the other hand.3 Method3.1 The CorpusThe eorl)us was obtained from tlm recorded (lat~which colnes with Italliday (1970).
We inv(;sti-gated tones 1, 2, and/l, and tone sequen('es 1 &1, l&  2, 2 & l, 2 & 2, l & 4, mid4  & 1.
Atotal of 290 utterances were analysed (= 1700words of text, approx.
350 tone groul)s).
Theutter~mces ranged fl:om inono- and polysyllabicwords to sentences.
The utterances varied intone, number of feet, the position of the Tonic,and whether there were silent t)eats in the tonegroup.
Also, some of the utteran(:es had a pre-tonic segmenl;, others did not.3.2 Labe l l ingThe labelling of the data a(:(:or(ling to SFG (:ri-teria was obtained from Halliday (1970).
Thelabelling of the dater using ToBI was done l)ya trained acoustic l)honeti(:ian.
2 The exisl;ingrecording was digitised at 20 kltz as 16 bit san>ples, and stored on a Unix machine.
The pitchtracks were calculated using ESPS WAVES+.The labelling of the data was done in F, MU(Cassidy & Harrington, 1996).
All the intona-tional and inl;ermedit~te l)hrases were marked,as', were the pit(:h ac(',ents, 1)hrasal and 1)oun(l-ary tones.4 Resu l tsThe first l)art of the study estaMished that thereis a basic eorresl)onden(:e l) tween the SFG tonesmid particular sequences of ToBI lal)els tbr thesimplest possible utterances, i.e., those consist-ing of a tonic segment only.
As can be seen from~l~,l)le 1, tone 1 usually corresponds to H'L-L%,tone 2 to L 'H-H% and tone 4 to II*L-H%.
aThese siml)le milts usually have one pitch a('-cent and (;oincide with one intonation t)hrase(:(resisting of one internmdiate 1)hrase.In a second step, we looked at the more com-plicated utterances, i.e., those with a pretonicsegment, and those consisting of a sequence oftone groups.
In these cases there is usually more2The phonetieimt was aware of the Sl.
'(' analysis.
How-ever, the ToBI analysis was done listening to the audiofiles and looking at the pitch plots.aThis confirms e.g., Ladd (1.996) stating that theBritish-style "nuclear-tones" are merely the specific ont-binations of accents and edge tones.than one l)itch accent per utterance.
Further, ifthe utterance has a Pretonic, there is always apitch accent in that segment.
Also, what canlie seen here is that there is no more than oneinternlediate l)hrase per tone group, and morethan (}lie tone group per intonation phrase.Table 2 gives |;lie ToBI seqllenee for the ut-t;eran(;es which include a pretonic segnle.nt.
Theresults are essentially the same as for the sin>ph; utterances (~151)le 1).
One small difference isthat tone 1 and tone 4 can have either an H* ora !H* nuclear accent.
This however is expected,|)ecause it simply means that although the nu-clear accent is high, it is down-stepped from anearlier It* accent.rl'al)le, 3 gives the TOBI S(Xluences for utter-anees consisting of SF(; tone groul) sequences.The Toni analysis tbr the final tone in a se-quence are essentially the same as tbr the utter-anees given in Table 2.
The first tone group ina se(lllen(;e is more often than not an interme-(liate t)hrase rather than a separate intonationl)hrase.
Itowevei', keel)ing in mind the dominat-ing intonation 1)hrase, the ToBI sequences forthe first elenmnt in a sequence are essentiallythe same as t'omld for utterances with a 1)re-toni(: clement (Table 2).
The results shown inTal)les 1, 2, and 3 taken together show that tbrtones 1, 2, 4 there is one corresponding 'l.
'oBI se-quence each tlmt characterizes tile interval 1)e-tween the nuclear accented word and the edgeof the 1)hrase regardless of the complexity ofthe ul;terance.We also tbund a very close correspondencebetween the ~ibnic in SFG and the nuclear ac-cented syllable in the Tom analysis: In virtu-ally all cases they were in exactly the same placein the analyses.
When the utteran(:es are more(:on lplex, e.g., they have a 1)retonic segment, orconsist of sequences, in l;he ToBI analysis 1)itchaccents are also lint in other places, not juston the mmlear accented syllaMe.
ToBI analysis,unlike SFC, allows for more than just the nu-clear accented syllable to be marked up.
Theextra pitch accents from the ToBI analysis arepotential ly a problem for a ToBI-SFG mapping.However, closer examination of the placelnent ofthese other 1)itch accents revealed that they al-ways fall on the first syllable of a foot (also whenthat is not the one carrying the nuclear stress).This suggests that the SFG feet can give some833information about where these other pitch ac-cents are likely to tM1 or, that these other pitchaccents may be an indication of toot boundaries.5 Conc lus ionsIn this paper we have presented the resultsof a comparison between the ToBI and theSFG systems for analysing intonation.
Thegoal of this comparison has been to establishequivalents between them.
The motivation be-hind this is to make the two systems collabo-rate in concept-to-speech generation: Tom is aphonetic-phonological approach to the deserip-tion of intonation, SFG offers a linguistic ap-proach to intonation, tbcusing on the meaning-ful intonation patterns.
ToBI i8 widely used inspeech synthesis, SFG is widely used in natu-ral language generation.
It seems therefore apromising step to combine the two approachestbr concept-to-speech generation.Through this study we have established somebasic matches between SFG tones and ToBI se-quences of pitch accents and edge tones.
Here,we have concentrated on the SFG tones 1, 2 and4.
We have analysed tones 3 and 5 as well andidentified their ToBI equiwdents using the samemethod (cf.
Sections 3 and 4).
In the next stepwe will integrate the SFG description of intona-tion for English in the existing SFG-based Pen-man generation system and then interface theFESTIVAL synthesizer with the generator usingthe correspendences tablished by our analy-ses.In another step of analysis we will look moreclosely at other kinds of realization of nuclearstresses, such as bitonal pitch accents, to es-tablish whether they reflect linguistic meanings.What also remains to be investigated is the as-signment of pitch accents other than the nuclearstress.
Nuclear stress can be predicted on thebasis of linguistic and pragmatic information,but it is not clear under which conditions otherpitch accents hould be placed.
Our observationabove (See.
4) that pitch accents other than thenuclear stress are typically placed on the firstsyllable of a foot may be a possible motivation.We are aware that there is controversy amongresearchers about rhythm.
However, if it turnsout that rhythm is a useful concept in the pre-diction of non-nuclear pitch accents, then wewill consider including it in our approach.6 AcknowledgementsWe thank J. Harrington, C. Matthiessen, M. Hall-iday and the anonymous reviewers for their usefulcomments.ReferencesM.
E. Beckman & G. M. Ayers.
1997.
Guidelinesfor ToBI labeling (Version 7.0).
Ohio State Uni-versify.
(ling.ohio-state.edu/Phoneties/E-ToBI).A.
Black, P. Taylor, & R. Caley.
1998.
The FESTI-VAL speech synthesis ystem; system documen-tation, (Version 1.3.1).
University of Edinburgh.(www.cstr.ed.ac.uk/projects/festival/).D.
Brazil, M. Coulthard, & C. Johns.
1980.
Dis-course Intonation and Language Teaching.
Long-lIlan, London.S.
Cassidy & J. Harrington.
1996.
Emu: An en-hanced hierarchical speech data management sys-tem.
PTvceedings o\]" the 6th Australian Interna-tional Conference on Speech Science and Technol-ogy , pp.
361--366.R.A.
Cole, J. Marimfi, H. Uszkoreit, A. Zae-hen, & V. Zue.
1995.
Survey of the Stateof the Art in Human Language Technology.(c.sht.cse.ogi.edu/nI~Tsurvey/ItLTsurvey.html).M.
Grice, M. Reyelt, R. Benzlniiller, J. Mayer, &A. Batliner.
1996.
Consistency in transcriptionlabelling of German intonation with GTom.
Pw-ceedings of the 4th International Conference onSpoken Language Processing, pp.
1716-1719.M.
A.K.
Halliday.
1967.
Intonation and Grammarin British English.
Mouton, The Hague.M.
A.K.
Halliday.
1970.
A Course in Spoken En-glish: Intonation.
Oxford University Press, Ox-ford.J.
Harrington & S. Cassidy.
1999.
Tcch, niques inSpeech Acoustics.
Kluwer Academic Publishers,Dordrecht.D.R.
Lad& 1996.
Intonational Phonology.
Cam-bridge University Press, Cmnbridge.C.
M.I.M.
Matthiessen & J.
A. Bateman.
1991.
TextGeneration and Systemic Functional Linguistics:Experiences from English and Japanese.
Pinter,London.J.
B. Pierrehulnbert.
1980.
The phonology and pho-netics of English intonation.
Ph.D. thesis, MIT.K.
Silverman, M. Beckman, J. Petrelli, M. Osten-dorf, C. Wightman, P. Price, J. Pierrehumbert,& J. Hirschberg.
1996.
ToBI: A standard tbrlabelling English prosody.
Proceedings of ICSLP92, volmne 2, pp.
867-870.E.
Teich, E. Hagen, B. Grote, &: J. Bateman.
1997.From communicative context o speech: Integrat-ing dialogue processing, speech production, andnatural anguage generation.
Speech Communici-ation, 21:73-99.834Hallid;wan descrit)tion Toll(~ ql.
'olu descril)tionTonic:l foot 1 H*I,-L% (20)and 1 or more 2 L*II-H% (20)syllables 4 H'L-H% (19)Tonic:l in- 1.
H'L-L% (18)coml)lete foot 2 L'H-H% (9),% 1. foot 4 H*I,-H% (10)Tonic:>1 foot (first might 1.
H'L-L% (17), L+H*L-L% (1),be incomplete) II*L-H*L-L% (1), H*L-!II*L-L% (1)2 I1*It-It% (1), L'H-It% (10)4 tt*H-It% (1), IVL-It% (9)2~d)lc' 1: Simple tone groupsIbdlidayan descril)tion Tone ToBI description1 (4O) !H'L-L% (18), H'L-L% (22)Pretonic + tonic with 1. or > 1 feet 2 (20) L'H-H% (20)4 (19) !H'L-n% (12), H'L-H% (7)Table 2: tivOli(?
groups with a Pr(~,tOlfi(:2bnes Tone & ToB\] descrit)tion1 & 1 Tone 1(20) !It*L- (4), H'L-L% (5), It*L-(11)2 & 1 Tone 2(10) L'It- (5), L*It-tt% (4), L+It*H- (1)1 ~Q, 2 Tone 1(9) H'L- (9)2 & 2 Tone 2(9) It*It- (1), II*L-It% (1), L*It- (8)1 & 4 Tone 1(10) It*L- (1.0)4 ck5 1.
~lbne 4(10) !H'H- (1), !H*L-II% (3), 1I*I:It% (6)Ton(; 1I~*L-L% (20)Tone 1H'L-L% (6), !H'L-L% (2), L'L-L% (2)Tone 2L*II-H% (9)Tone 2L'H-H% (10)Tone 4H'L-It% (10)Tone 1H'L-L% (9),!It*L-L% (1)2}d)lc 3: Tone group sequences835
