Deletions and their reconstruction in tectogrammatical syntactictagging of very large corporaEva ItAJICOVAUFALCharles UniversityMalostransk6 nfim.
25118 00 Prague, Czech Republichajicova @ufal.mff.cuni.czMarkEta CEPLOVA0FALCharles UniversityMalostransk6 n&n.
25118 00 Prague, Czech Republicceplovam@yahoo.comAbstractThe procedure of reconstruction of theunderlying structure of sentences (in theprocess of tagging a very large corpus ofCzech) is described, with a special attentionpaid to the conditions under which thereconstruction of ellipted nodes is carriedout.1.
The tagging scenarios with different(degrees and types of) theoreticalbackgrounds have undergone a rather rapiddevelopment flom morphologically basedpart-of-speech (POS) tagging throughtreebanks capturing the surface syntacticstructures of sentences to semanticallyoriented tagging models, taking into accountthe underlying structure of sentences and/orcertain issues of the 'inner' semantics oflexical units and their collocations.One of the critical aspects of the taggingscenario capturing the underlying structureof the sentences i  the 'depth' of the resultingtree structures; in other words, how far thesestructures differ from the surface structures.If we take for granted (as is the case in mostof the syntactic treebanks) that every wordof the (surface) sentence should have a nodeof its own in the surface tree structure, thenthis issue can in part be reformulated interms of two subquestions:(i) which surface nodes are superfluous andshould be 'pruned away',(ii) which nodes should be assumed to bedeleted in the surface and should be'restored' in the underlying structure (e.g.
informs of different kinds of dummy symbols,see Fillmore 1999).In our paper, we are concerned with thepoint (ii).2.
In the TG and post-TG writings, it iscommon to distinguish between two types ofdeletions: (a) ellipsis proper and (b)gapping.
For both of them, it is crucial thatthe elliptical construction and its antecedentshould be parallel and 'identical' at least insome features.
The two types of ellipsis canbe illustrated by examples (1) and (2),respectively.
(1) Psal jenom flkoly, kterd chtal.lit.
'He-wrote only homework's which he-wanted'(2) Honza dal Marii rfiki a Petr Ida tulipfin.lit.
'John gave Mary rose and Peter Ida tulip'For both types, a reconstruction i  someway or another is necessary, if the treestructure is to capture the underlyingstructure of the sentences.3.
The examples quoted in the previoussection cover what Quirk et al (1973, pp.536-620) call 'ellipsis in the strict sense';they view ellipsis as a purely surface278phenomenon: the recoverability of theellipted words is always unique and 'fits'into the surface structure.
They difl'erentiateellipsis fiom 'semantic implication' whichwould cover e.g.
such cases as (3) and (4):(3) John wants to read.
(4) Thanks.If (3) is 'reconstructed' as 'John wants Johnto read', then the two occurrences of 'John'are referentially different, which is not trueabout the interpretation of (3).
With (4), itcannot be uniquely determined whether thefull corresponding structure should be '1 oweyou thanks' or 'I give you thanks' etc.4.
For tagging a corpus on the underlyinglevel, it is clear that we cannot limitourselves to the cases of ellipsis in tile strictsense but we have to broaden lhe notion of'reconstruction' to cover both(i) deletions licensed by the grammaticali)roperties of sentence lements or sentencestructure, and(it) deletions licensed only by the precedingcontext (be it co-text or context of situation).4.1.
In our analysis of a sample of CzechNational Corpus, two situations may occurwithin the group (i):(a) Only the position itself that should be"filled" in the sentence structure ispredetemfined (i.e.
a sentence element issubcategorized for this position), but itslexical setting is Tree'.This is e.g.
the case of the so-called pro-drop character of Czech, where the positionof the subject of a verb is 'given', but it maybe filled in dependence on the context.
(5) Pi:edseda vlfidy i:ekl, ~e pf'edlo~i nfivrh nazmenu volebniho systdmu.
'The Prime-minister said that (0) will submita proposal on tile change of the electoralsystem.
'The 'dropped' subject of the verb pi:edlo2i'will submit' may refer to the Prime-minister, to the Govermnent, or tosomebody else identifiable on the basis ofthe context.Here also belong cases of the semanticallyobligatory but deletable complementationsof verbs: the Czech verb l)i:(/et 'to arrive' hasas its obligatory complementation a Actorand a Directional "where-to" (theobligatoriness of the Directionalcomplementation can be tested by a questiontest, see Panevovfi 1974; Sgall et al 1986),which can be deleted on the surface; itsreference is determined by the context.
(6) Vlak pi~ijede v poledne.
'Tile train will arrive at noon.
'The utterer of (6) deletes the Direction'where-to' because s/he assumes that thehearer knows the referent.
(b) Both the position and its 'filler' arepredetermined.This is the case of e.g.
the subject of theinfinitival complement of the so-called verbsof control as in (7).
(7) Pi"edseda vVldy slibil pi~edlo~it nfivrh nazm6nu volebniho systdmu.
'The Prime-minister promised to submit aproposal on the change of the electoralsystem.
'The identification of the underlying subjectof the infinitive is 'controlled' by the Actorof the main verb, in our example it is 'thePrime-minister'.Another example of this class of deletionsare the so-called General Participants (closeto the English one or German man): GeneralActor in (8), General Patient in (9), orGeneral Addressee in (10).
(8) Ta kniha byla u~ vydfina dvakrfit.
'The book has already been published twice.
'(9) V nedeli obvykle pe~,u.
'On Sundays (I) usually bake.
'(10) D6dei?ek 6asto vypravuie pohfidky.
'Grandfather often tells fairy-tales.
'2794.2 Within the group (ii), there belong casesof the so-called 'occasional ellipsis'conditioned by the context alone.We are aware that not everything in anyposition that is identifiable on the basis ofthe context can be deleted in Czech (asmight be in an extreme way concluded fromexamples (11) through (14)).
However, theconditions restricting the possibility ofellipsis in Czech seem to be less strict thane.g.
in English, as illustrated by (15):(11) Milujeme a ctime svdho u~itele.
'We love and honour our teacher.
'(12) Marii j sem vid~l a slygel zpivat.lit.
'Mary-Acc.
Aux-be saw and heard to-sing''!
saw and heard Mary singing.
'(13) Jirka se v~era v hospod6 opil don6moty a Honza dneska.lit.
'Jirka himself yesterday in pub drunk todeath and Honza today.
''In the pub, Jirka drunk himself to deathyesterday and Honza today.
'(14) Petr f-ikal Pavlovi, aby ~el ven, aMartin, aby zflstal doma.
'Peter told Pavel to go outside and Martin(told Pavel) to stay at home.
'(15) (Potkaljsi veera Toma?)
Potkal.
'(Did you meet Tom yesterday?)
Met'.4.3 in addition to setting principles of whichnodes need to be restored it is also importantto say in which cases no restoration isdesirable.
Nodes are not restored in cases of:(a) accidental omission (due to emotion,excitement or insufficient command oflanguage, see e.g.
Hlavsa 1990);(b) unfinished sentences, which usually lackfocus (unlike ellipsis where the 'missing'elements belong to topic);(c) sentences without a finite verb that canbe captured by a structure with a noun in itsroot (in these cases there are no emptypositions, nothing can be really added).All these cases have no clear-cut boundaries,rather it is more appropriate to expectcontinual transitions.5.1 The Prague Dependency Tree Bank(PDT in the sequel), which has beeninspired by the build-up of the PennTreebank (Marcus, Santorini &Marcinkiewicz 1993; Marcus, Kim,Marcinkiewicz et al 1994), is aimed at acomplex annotation of (a part of) the CzechNational Corpus (CNC in the sequel), thecreation of which is under progress at theDepartment of Czech National Corpus at theFaculty of Philosophy, Charles University(the corpus currently comprises about 100million tokens of word forms).
PDTcomprises three layers of annotations: (i) themorphemic layer with about 3000morphemic tag values; a tag is assigned toeach word form of a sentence in the corpusand the process of tagging is based onstochastic procedures described by Haii6and Hladkfi (1997); (ii) analytic treestructures (ATSs) with every word form andpunctuation mark explicitly represented asanode of a rooted tree, with no additionalnodes added (except for the root of the treeof every sentence) and with the edges of thetree corresponding to (surface) dependencyrelations; (iii) tectogrammatical treestructures (TGTSs) corresponding to theunderlying sentence representations, againdependency-based.At present the PDT contains 100000sentences (i.e.
ATSs) tagged on the first twolayers.
As for the third layer, the input forthe tagging procedure are the ATSs; thisprocedure is in its starting phase and isdivided into (i) automatic preprocessing (seeBOhmov~ and Sgall 2000) and (ii) themanual phase.
The restoration of thesyntactic information absent in the surface(morphemic) shape of the sentence (i.e.
forwhich there are no nodes on the analyticlevel) is mostly (but not exclusively) done -280at least for the time being - in the manualphase of the transduction procedure.
In thisphase, the tagging of the topic-focusarticulation is also performed (seeBurfifiovfi, Hajieovfi and Sgall 2000).5.2 The reconstruction of deletions inTGTSs is guided by the following generalprinciples:(i) All 'restored' nodes standing for elementsdeleted in the surface structure of thesentence but present in its underlyingstructure get marked by one of the followingvalues in the attribute DEL:ELID: the 'restored' element stauds alone;e.g.
the linearized TGTS (disregarding otherthan structural relations) for (16) is (16').
(Note: Every dependent item is enclosed in apair of parenthesis.
The capitalizedabbreviations stand for dependency relationsand are self-explaining; in our examples weuse English lexical units to make therepresentations more transparent.
)(16) Sbfral houby.
'Collected-he mushrooms.
'(16') (he.ACT.ELID) collected(mushrooms.PAT)ELEX: if the antecedent is an expandedhead node and not all the deleted nodesbelong to the obligatory colnplementationsof the given node and as such not all arereconstructed, cf.
e.g.
the simplified TGTSfor (13) in (13').
(13') ((Jirka.ACT) (yesterday.TWHEN)(pub.LOC) drunk-himself (to-death.MANN)) and (drunk-himself.ELEX(Honza.ACT) (today.TWHEN))EXPN: if the given node itself was notellipted but some of its complementationswere and are not restored (see the principle(iii)(b) below), cf.
e.g.
the simplified TGTSin (15') for (15) above, with non-reconstructed telnporal modification:(15') (I.ACT.ELID) met.EXPN(Tom.PAT.ELID)(ii) The restored nodes are addedimmediately to the left of their governor.
(iii) The following cases are prototypicalexamples of restorations (for an easierreference to the above discussion of thetypes of deletions, the primed numbers oftile TGTSs refer to the example sentences inSection 4):(a) Restoration of nodes forcomplementations for which the head nodes(governors) are subcategorized.
Theassignment of the lexical labels is governedby the following principles: in pro-dropcases (5') (comparable to Fillmore's 1999CNI - constructionally-licensed nullinstantiation) and with an obligatory butdeletable complementation (6') (cf.Filhnore's definite null instantiation, DNI)the lexieal value corresponds to therespective pronoun; with grammaticalcoreference (control), the lexical value isCor (7'); in both these cases, the lexicalwdue of the antecedent is put into a specialattribute of Coreference; in cases of generalparticipants (cf.
Filllnore's indefinite nullinstantiation - INI) the lexical value is Gen(10'):(5') (prime-minister.ACT) said((he.ACT.ELID; COREF: prime-minister)will-submit.PAT (proposal.PAT(change.PAT (system.PAT(electoral.RSTR)))))(6') (train.ACT) will-arrive (noon.TWHEN)(here/there.ELID.DIR3)(7') (prime-lninister.ACT) promised((Cor.ACT.ELID; COREF: prilne-nainister)submit.PAT (proposal.PAT (change.PAT(system.PAT (electoral.RSTR)))))(10') (grandfather.ACT) (often.TWHEN)(Gen.ADDR.ELID) tells (fairy-tales.PAT)(b) Elipted optional complelnentations arenot restored (see (13') above) unless they aregovernors of adjuncts.
(c) For coordinated structures, the guidingprinciple says: whenever possible, give281precedence to a "constituent" coordinationbefore a "sentential" one (more generally:"be as economical as possible"), thusexamples like (t7) are not treated assentential coordination (i.e.
they are nottransformed into structures corresponding to(17')).
(17) Karel pfinesl Jan6 kv6tiny a knihu.
'Katel brought Jane flowers and a book.
'(17') Karel pfinesl Jan6 kv6tiny a Katelpfinesl Jan6 knihu.
'Karel brought Jane flowers and Karelbrought Jane a book.
'A special symbol CO is introduced in thecomplex labels for the coordinated nodes tomark which nodes stand in the coordinationrelation and which modify the coordinationas a whole (see (11')); the lexical value ofthe restored elements is copied from theantecedents (see (13') above):(11') ((we.ACT) (love.CO) and (honour.CO)(our teacher.PAT))The analysis of (11') is to be preferred tosentential coordination with deletion also forits correspondence with the fact, that inCzech object can stand after coordinatedverbs only if the semantic relation betweenthe verbs allows for a unifyinginterpretation, as shown by cases, where theobject must be repeated with each verb(compare the contrast between (18) and(19)).
(I 8) Potkal jsem Petra, ale nepoznal jsemho.
'I met Peter, but I didn't recognize him.
'(19) ?
?Potkal, ale nepoznal jsem Petra.
'I met but didn't recognize Peter.
'However, there are cases where thecoordination has to be taken as sentential orat least at a higher level.
As modal verbs arerepresented asgramatemes of the main verb,sentences as (20) have to be analysed as in(20'):(20) Petr musel i cht61 pfijit.
'Peter had to and wanted to come.
'(20') (Peter.ACT) (had-to-come.CO) and(wanted-to-come.ELID.
CO)Another case of a less strict adherence to theeconomy principle are sentences withdouble reading.
Such a treatnaent henallows for a distinction to be made betweenthe two readings, e.g.
in (21), namelybetween (a) 'villagers who are (both) old andsick' and (b) 'villagers who are sick (but notnecessarily old) and villagers who ate old(but not necessarily sick)':(21) Jim zachrfinil star6 a nemocndvesnieany.
'Jim saved old and sick villagers.
'(2 l'a) (Jim.ACT) saved (villagers.PAT((old.CO.RSTR) and (sick.CO.RSTR)))(2 l'b) (Jim.ACT) saved((villagers.CO.PAT.ELID (old.RSTR)) and(villagers.CO.PAT (sick.RSTR)))5.3 The research reported oll in thiscontribution is work in progress: theprinciples are set, but precisions areachieved as the annotators progress.
Thereare many issues left for furtherinvestigation; let us mention just one ofthem, as an illustration.
Both in (22) and in(23), the scope of 'mfilokdo' (few) is (at leaston the preferential readings) wide ('there arefew people such that...'); however, (24) isambiguous: (i) there were few people suchthat gave P. a book and M. flowers, (ii) fewpeople gave P. a book and few people gaveM.
flowers (not necessarily the samepeople).
A similar ambiguity is exhibited by(25): (i) there was no such (single) personthat would give P. a book and M. flowers,(ii) P. did not get a book and M. did not getflowers.
However, there is no suchambiguity in (26).
(22) Mfilokdo jf jablka a nejf ban,~ny.lit.
'Few eat apples and do-not-eat bananas''Few people eat apples and do not eatbananas.
'282(23) Mfilokdo dal Petrovi knihu a Mariikvetiny ne.lil.
'Few gave Peter book and Mary flowersnot''l~ew people gave Peter a book and did notgive Mary flowcrs.
'(24) Mfilokdo dal Petrovi knihu a Mariikv6tiny.lit.
'Few gave Peter book and Mary flowers''Few people gave Peter a book and Maryflowers.
'(25) Nikdo nedal Petrovi knihu a Mariikv6tiny.lit.
'Nobody did-not-give Peter book andMary flowers''Nobody gave Peter a book and Maryflowers.
'(26) Petrovi nikdo nodal knihu a Mariikv6tiny.lit.
'Peter nobody did-not-give book andMary flowers''To Peter, nobody gave a book and to Mary,flowers.
'An explanation of this behaviour offersitself in terms of the interplay el!
contrast inpolarity and of topic-focus articulation: anelement standing at Ille beginning of thesentence with a contras\[ in polarity carries awide scopc ('few' in (22) and (23)); withsentences without such a contrast both widescope and narrow scope interpretations arepossible ('few' and 'nobody' in (24) and (25),respectively); (25) differs from (26) in thatin the latter sentence, the element incontrastive topic is 'Peter' in the firstconjunct and 'Mary' in the second, ratherthan 'nobody', and there is no contrast inpolarity involved.The tagging scheme sketched in theprevious ections offers only a single TGTSfor the ambiguous structures instead of two,which is an undesirable result.
However, iflhe explanation offered above is confl'ontedwith a larger amount of data and confirmed,lhe difference between the twointerpretations could be captured either bymeans of a combination of tags for therestored nodes and for the topic-focusarticulation or by diflerent structures forcoordination: while example (22) supportsthe economical treatment of coordinatestructures (the ACT modifying thecoordination as whole), examples (24)through (26) seem to suggest hat there maybe cases where the other approach(sentential coordination with ellipsis) ismore appropriate to capture the differencesin meaning.Acknowledgement.
The research reportedon in this paper has bccn predominantlycarried out within a project suplgorted by theCzech Grant Agency 405-96-K214 and inpart by the Czech Ministry o17 Education VS96-151.Referencesl~;6hmc, v{l A. and Sgall F'.
(2000) Automat icprocedures in tectogrammatical t gging.
In theselhocecdings.Burfifiovfi E., ltaji~ovfi E. and Sgall P. (2000)Tagging oJ' ve O' large coq~ora: T<)pic-FocttsArticuhltion.
In this volume.Fillmore C. J.
(1999) Silem amtFhora."
Corlms,FrallleNel, all(\[ missin,~ colslplelllellts.
Paperpresented atthe TELI~.I workshop: P, ratislava.llaji,2 J. and ltladkfi 13.
(1997) Probabilistic cragrule-based tagger of an iqflective hmguage - aeomparisols.
In "Proceedings of the FifthConference on Applied Natural LanguageProcessing", Washington, D.C., pp.
111 -118.llaii6ovfi E., Panevovfi J. and Sgall P. (1998)Language Resources Need Amtotatimls 7b MakeThem Really Reusable: The Prague Dependency7)'eebank.
in "Proceedings ofthe First InternationalConference on Language Resources &Evaluation", Granada, Spain, pp.
713-718.llaji~ovfi E., Partee B. and Sgall P. (1998) 7bpic-focus articulation, trOmrtite structures, andsemantic ontent.
Kluwcr, l)ordrccht.Hlavsa Z.
(1990) Some Notes on Ellipsis in CzechLanguage cmd Linguistics.
Studi italiani dilinguistica leorica cd applicata 19, pp.
377-387.Marcus M. P., Kim G., Marcinkicwicz M. A. et al(1994) 7'he Penn Treebank: Amzotating l'redicate283Argunwnt Structure.
Proceedings of tile ARPAHuman Language Technology Workshop.
MorganKaufmann, San Francisco.Marcus M. P., Santorini B. and Marcinkiewicz M.
A.
(1993) Building a Large Annotated Ccnpus ofEnglish: the Penn Treebank.
ComputationalLinguislics, 19(2), pp.
313-330.Panevovfi J.
(1974) On verbal frames in FunctionalGenerative Description.
Prague Bulletin ofMathematical Linguistics 22, pp.
3-40; 23(1975),pp.
17-52.Quirk R., Greenbaum S., Leech G. and Svartvik J.
(1973) A glztmmar of contemporao, English.
2ndEd.
Longman, London.Sgall P., Haji~ovfi E. and Panevovfi J.
(1986) TheMeaning of the Sentence in lts Semalttic andPragmatic Aspects, ed.
by J. L. Mey, Dordrecht,Reidel - Prague, Academia.284
