Modelling Speech Repairsin German and Mandarin Chinese Spoken DialoguesShu-Chuan TsengDa-Yeh University112 Shan-Jiao Rd.
Da-TsuenChanghua, Taiwan 515tseng@aries.dyu.edu.twAbstractResults presented in this paper stronglysupport the notion that similarities as well asdifferences in language systems can beempirically investigated by looking into thelinguistic patterns of speech repairs in realspeech data.
A total of 500 Gemmn and 325Mandarin Chinese overt immediate speechrepairs were analysed with regard to theirinternal phrasal structures, with particularfocus on the syntactic and morphologicalcharacteristics.
Computational models in theform of finite state automata (FSA) alsoillustrate the describable regularity ofGerman and Mandarin Chinese speechrepairs in a formal way.IntroductionSpontaneous speech analysis has recently beenplaying a crucial role in providing empiricalevidence for applications in both theoretical ndapplied fields of computational linguistics.
Forthe purpose of constructing more salient androbust dialogue systems, recent analyses onspeech repairs, or more generally speaking, onspeech disfluencies in spoken dialogues havetried to explore the distributional characteristicsof irregular sequences in order to developannotation systems to cope with speech repairs(Heeman and Allen 1999, Nakatani andHirschberg 1994).
This new research direction,nevertheless, has until recently merely focusedon the surface structure of speech repairs on theone hand.
On the other hand, except for very fewilwestigations tarting to deal with speechrepairs across several languages (Eklund andShribcrg 1998), most of the studies on speechrepairs have investigated only single languages.In addition, studies have shown that syntacticand prosodic features of spontaneous speechdata provide empirical evidence with regard toreflecting the speaking habits of speakers, andalso help to develop better parsing strategies andnatural language processing systems (Heemanand Allen 1999, Hindle 1983).
These systemsshould understand and react o the language useof human users (Lickley and Bard 1998, Tseng1998).This paper presents results of a comparativestud), of speech repairs with the goal ofexamining and modelling repair syntax bylooking into empirical cross-linguistic spccchdata.
In this paper, the phenomena of speechrepairs are introduced first, followed by anempirical cross-linguistic analysis of speechrepairs in German and Mandarin Chinese, whichhave different language typologies.
Speech data,therefore, were collected to look for linguisticsequences and particularities of spontaneousspeech, which usually cause difficulties forlanguage dialogue systems.
Syntactic patternsfound in the comparative analysis havesubsequently been formalised to make clear theinternal structures of speech repairs.
Formalmodelling in FSA should finally show thefonnal characteristics of repair sequences inthese two language systems.1 Related WorkThis section sumlnariscs previous results related864to speech repairs.
First, a generally adoptedtemplate model of describing repairs isintroduced, lbllowed by a brief sumnaary ofrecent studies on speech repair processing inGerman and Mandarin Chinese.1.1 Template Model of RepairsMost models of repair structures (Lcvclt 1983)apply a template-based approach.
In 1)rinciplc, atelnplate model is colnposed of three parts:rcparandum (Rcp), editing tcnns (Et) andalteration (Alt).
The rcparanduna denotes thespeech stretch, which nccds to bc repaired,whereas the alteration is the repair itself.
Editingterms are seqnences produced between thereparandum and the alteration, which oftenappear in tbrm of silent or filled pauses and canalso bc absent, depending on the Sl)cakingsituation.
A classification systenl of repairs canbc derived from the structural relations betv,'ecllthe reparandum, the editing term and thealteration:?
addil ion repait:s'Ex an\]pie: -#: -2~,~, - -~, i,J ~,,= e,~4'\[.
*./ ej~j (Rcp) %.
"IN ~ ;-~-#~ n g (TWPTH Corpus) l __t'J"J (Alt) .
.
.
.
': ,a -'~ ,,?
suhstilulion repaitwExaml)lc: Und unten rnnten ist halt die gelbeMutter (Rcp) /ilA (Et) die orangc Mutter (Alt)(Sagcrer el al.
1994) -~?
repel/l/or1 repairsExample: En aan dc rechtcrkallt een oraRjc stip(Rcp) oranjc stip (Alt).
(Lcvelt 1983) 3?
abr idged repair,s'Example: I think that you get - it is more strict inCatholic schools.
(Hindle 1983)1.2 Gramnmr-Or iented  Product ion ofGernmn Speech RepairsGerman, an Indo-Europcan language, is alanguage with a strong emphasis on grammaticalflexion.
Phrases with congruence in gender,i Verbatiln translation: will influence wholePOSSESSIVF,-particle Mmle industryPO SS\]:;SS1VI ';-particle investment interests.Sentential translation : It will influence the whole thewhole industrial investment interests.2 And beneath that is the yellow nut dl the orangenut.3 And at the right-side an orange dot orange dot.munber and case are important from syntacticand naorphological viewpoints.
Tiros, phrasalboundaries may play a role in the production ofGerman repairs.
Results provided by Tseng(1999) empirically support the significant role ofphrasal boundaries in German by examiningGcmmn specch repairs.
Phrasal boundaries seemto be the positions to start as well as to endspeech repairs.
The following utterance in whicha German repair is produced clearly illustratesthis t)henolneuon: "lch habe eiuen Wiirfel raileiner mit emem Gewmde 4'', where mit einer is aphrasal liagmcnt and mit einem Gewinde,starting fi'oln the phrasal beginning, is acomplete phrase repairing the previous phrasalfiagment.
In her conversation analysis onsclf-rcpairs in Gennan, Uhmalm (1997) alsolnentions that repairs tend to appear atconstituent boundaries ill nlost cases, i.e.,deleting problem sequences involved in repairswill result in the utterances containing speechrepairs becolning well-formed.1.3 Lcxis-Oricnted Production of ChineseSpeech RepairsOne way to illustrate the differences inlanguages is to examine and to compare thetypes of speech repairs in the languagesrespectively.
The modcrn descriptionmethodologies of gralmnar structures in Germanand Chinese (Chao 1968, Li and Thompson1981) originated froln similar theoreticalbackgrounds.
However, Chinese has a greatvariety of colnpound words, but lacksgrammatical narkings at the morphologicallevel.
To be morn specific, the word formationin Chinese is accomplished by combiningmorphelncs, where each morpheme has its ownlexical content and orthographic character.
Thisis essentially different from thesyntactic-lnorphological derivation as well ascompounding in Gennan.Lee and Chen (1997) classified Chinese speechrepairs in patterns and developed a languagelnodol for their language recognition system to4 I have one cube with a\[fcminine, singular, dative,indefinite\] with a\[neuter, singular, dative, indefinite\]bolt.865cope with speech repairs.
However, they did notcarry out any further investigations on thestructure of repairs.
Different fronl theproduction of German speech repairs, Chui(1996) proposed, in her studies on repairs inChinese spoken conversations, that syntax seemsto play a less important role than the lexicalcomplexity and tile size of words in theproduction of Chinese speech repairs.
Forinstance, not tbe constituent boundaries, but thecompleteness of the lexical content and thescope of the lexical quantity of the words should(~)  and engineer (~-~_~) in the utterance/ ,g~ ;/c //g~y ~ ~_~ ~4~'~,f #/;~ "/2t~.~ s, are the major factors which influence theproduction of repairs.2 Data and CorpusIn order to examine the production of speechrepairs in different languages, the Germancorpus BAUFIX and the Chinese corpusTWPTH were chosen to carry out furthercomparative analyscs.2.1 German Data: BAUFIXThe BAUFIX corpus (Sagerer el al.
1994)consists of 22 digitally recorded Germanhuman-human dialogues.
44 participantsco-operated in pairs as instructor and constructor,where their task was to build a toy-plane.Because of the limited visual contact betweendialogue partners in some given cases, subjectshad to rely on their verbal comnmnication to agreat extent.
This corpus setting was especiallyconstructed to force subjects to repair theirspeech errors.
For the purpose of this paper toinvestigate repair syntax, the corpus analysis ismainly concerned with immediate self-repairs.They were identified and hand-annotated by theauthor.
In total, 500 speech repairs wereclassified according to their syntactic attributessuch as categories and parts of speech.
Theywere subsequently analysed with respect o the5 Verbatim translation: Hc shouldNEGATION-particle should promote ngineer(wordfragment) engineer so quickly DISCOURSE-particle.Sentential translation: He shouM should not bepromoted to engineel(word fragment) engineer sosoon .location of interruption and their repair structure.2.2 Mandarin Chinese Data: TaiwanPutonghua Corpus (TWPTH)Taiwan Putonghua Corpus (TWPTH), wherePutonghua refers to Mandarin Chinese, wasrecorded in Taiwan.
The speakers were all bornin Taiwan and their first language is Taiwancsc(Southern Min).
The speakers wcrc given theinstructions in advance to speak in usualconversation style and they could speak on anytopic they wanted to, or even on no topic at all.Thus, the spontaneous and conversation-orientedspeech data were obtained.
A total of 40speakers were recorded including five dialoguesand 30 monologues.
Three dialogues wereanalysed for the study in this paper and each isabout 20 nfinutes long.
In total, 325 immediatespeech repairs were identified in these threedialogues and they were annotated according tothe POS system developed for the Sinica Corpus(CKIP 1995).2.3 Comparison of Repair DataSeine central statistics on BAUFIX and TWPTHdata are summarised in Table 1:Table 1: Summary Statistics13AUFIX TWPTHLanguage German Mandarin Chinesetotal no.
ofwoMs 35036 9168 wordswoMs 47655 characterstotal no.
of repairs 500 325no.
words involved 1823 words 950 woMsm rcpairs 1622 characters% repair-woMs of 5.2 % 10.4 % (woM)total words 3.4 % (chmacter)% of phrases PP 34.8 % VP 35.7 %involved in repairs NP 38 % NP 41.2 %Table 1 shows that the percentage of problemwords (words involved in speech repairs) issimilar in both BAUFIX and TWPTH corpora.Witb regard to the number of words (i.e.
lexicalitelns) 10.4% of overall words in TWPTH areinvolved in repair sequences, whereas only 5.2%of words in BAUFIX are found in repairsequences.
However, the statistics show apattern, Mlich is more closely related, 3.4% and5.2% respectively, if we consider the number ofcharacters instead of words ill Chinese.
Chinese866words can bc mono- or multi-syllabic.
InChinese, lexical items are composed ofcharacters, where each character is allindependent lneaningful monosyllabicmorpheme.
This study can possibly provideinsights into the role of characters in Chinese atsyntactic and morphological levels.Other interesting results that can be noted fromTable 1 are the types of phrases involved inrepair sequences.
In BAUFIX, because of thetask-oriented corpus setting, few verbs wereused.
lnstead, the focus is more on NPs and PPs,since the speakers had to express exactly whatthe parts look like and where to place them.Different from BAUF1X, the TWPTH speakersdid not have to give exact descriptions.Therefore, a considerable number of verbs wereused, which we can observe from the highpereentage of VPs involved in repair sequences.However, in both corpora, NPs make up a highpercentage, 38% and 41.2% respectively.
Forthis reason, NPs will bc further investigated fortheir syntactic structures.3 Analysis of Repair Syntax in NPsTiffs section is concerned with the distributionand patterns of NPs in the context of repairsyntax in German and Mandarin Chinese.3.1 Regular PatternsAmong 190 NPs involved in repair sequences inBAUFIX, there arc 147 NPs for which theinternal structure within the NPs can bc givenexactly as follows (Tscng 1999),NP => NNP => DET + NNP => DET + ADINP => DET + ADI + NNP --> DET + ADJ + ADJ + NNP =>so + DET+ NNP => so + DET + ADI 4- NNP => so + DET + AD\] + ADJ + Nwhere lhe other 43 NPs in repairs are abridgedrepairs, therefore, their internal structures cannotbe determined.Compared with Gennan NP-rcpairs, Chinesespeakers produce rather simple repair sequencesin NPs.
Only 62.7% (84 out of 134) of Chineserepairs found in the corpus are single NP phrases.The rest of repair sequences in which NPs areinvolvcd, contain other phrasal categories uchas verb phrases or adverbials.
Since thesedialogues arc concerned with normal andeveryday conversations, no complicated nounphrases were used.
These NP-rcpairs have thefollowing structures:NP => NNP => DETNP => DET + NNP => ADI + NNP => QUAN + CLASSNP => OUAN + CLASS + Nwhere QUAN denotes numbers and CLASSmeans classifiers in Chinese.3.2 Syntactic Formalization83.4% out of 147 specific NP repairs in Germanstart at phrase-initial positions and end atphrase-final positions.
In the Chinese data, onlythrcc NP-repairs among the 84 single NP-repairswere not traced back to file phrase-initialposition.
Phrasal boundaries play a role whilespeech repairs are produced in both languages,especially phrase-initial positions before thercparandum.
The syntactic structure of themaiority of German and Chinese repairs in NPscan bc fonnally described by means of phrasalmodelling.Figure 1 : Phrasal Modelling of German NP-Rcpairs63Figure 1 models 50% of NP repair sequcnces ofthe type DET ADJN  in BAUFIX, where thereflexive arrow on DET designates the sequence867DET DET.
The first DET can be a fragmentaryor a false determiner, whereas the second DET issupposed to be the corrected word accordingly.The initial element DET in a German nounphrasc, i.e.
the phrase-initial boundary is themost frequent location at which a repair isrestarted.
In other words, while producingrepairs, speakers tend to go back to thedeterminer torepair NPs.Although the data investigated here is notnecessarily representative for most Chinesespeakers, this result, does not empiricallyconfirm Chui's conclusion (1996) that syntaxshould play a less important role than the lexicalcomplexity and the quantity constraint of theto-be-repaired lexical items, hlstead, thephrase-initial position seems to be the locationto restart repairs in Chinese.
Therefore, theresults indicate that the lexical content of theto-be-repaired itclns tends to play a lessimportant role than syntax in both languages.3.3 Cross-Linguistic DifferencesIn contrast o the similarities between Germanand Chinese speech repairs lncntioned in thesections above, differences can also be identified.Some differences can bc noted through acomparison of repair syntax in German andMandarin Chinese.
It is more colnnlon for NPsin German to be repaired directly within NPs,whereas in Chinese NPs are often repairedwithin a more complex syntactic context, i.e.Chinese repairs arc composed of more than onephrasal category.
To investigate the syntacticand morphological distribution of speech repairsin both languages, the length of retracing in bothlanguages i examined.
The results are presentedin Table 2.Table 2: Distribution of Retracingretraced words or German Chinesecharacters (words) (characters)0 22.5% 3.6%1 62.9% 61.9%2 12.9% 27.4%3 1.7% 6%4 0 1.2%No similarity between German and Chinese wasobtained by checking the nulnbcr of retracedwords in Chinese, because the majority of "theretraced parts" in Chinese are word fragments.But it is clearly shown in Table 2 that Gennanwords and Chinese characters play a similar rolein the production of speech repairs.
Whether ithas to do with the syllabic weighting in bothlanguages or the semantic ontcnt of charactersin Chinese necds fnrther linguistic investigation.4 Formal ModellingWith regard to relations of repair syntax and theediting structuring in repairs, instead of onlylooking into their surface structure, the syntacticregularity in German and Chinese NP-repairscan be modelled in the form of finite stateautomata.
We again take German as example.4.1 Finite State AutomataFinite state automata similar to M withe-transitions denoted by a quintuple <Q, E, 8, q0,IF> defined as follows can model more than 80%of overall German NP-repairs:Q = {q0, ql, q2, q3, qf},E = {det, adj, 11, dct-d G, adj-d, n-d, e},q0 is the initial state,F ={q3} and~5(q0, det)=ql, 8(q l, adj)=q2, 6(@, n)=q3,8(q0, det-d)-qf, 6(ql, adj-d)=qf, 8(q2, n-d)=qf,6(qf, e)=q0, 8(ql, e)=q0, 6(@, e)=q(),8(@, e)=q0M is graphically illustrated in Figure 2.
Severalparticularities are described in this automaton.First, when NP-repairs are produced, no matterwhere the real problmn word is located (It can bedct-d, adj, adj-d, n or n-d), speakers tend to goback to the phrase-initial position to restart lheirspeech.
It the case of NPs, the determiner is themost frequent location for re-initiating a correctspeech.
The final position is in most casesphrase-final.
Therefore, in M, there is only onefinal state q3.
This models the coherence withinNP phrases in German that speakers usuallycomplete pluTases, after they have started them.6 Det-d, adj-d, and n-d denote fragmentary (or false)determiners, adjectives and nouns respectively.868Figure 2: Finite State Automaton ME4.2 DiscussionThe FSA M suggested above is suitable for thesyntactic haracteristics of speech repairs in bothGerman and Chinese.
Repair syntax has beentaken into consideration from a procedural pointof view, instead of simply dcscribing thesequential structures.
In this modcl, probabilities(for instance, word frequency or acousticfeatures) on the arcs can be implemented tooperate a parsing system, which can deal withspeech repairs, ttowcver, speech data ofappropriate size are needed to obtain significantprobabilities.\["or more linguistic insights into theword-character relations in Chinese or acrosslanguages, i.e.
the ovcrlapping syntactic andmorphological role of phrasal boundaries,further modification is necded to make the rcpairprocessing and detection in the Chinese casemore realistic.ConclusionThis paper has shown that speech repairs notonly play a decisive role in speech processingtechnology systems, they also provide empiricalevidence and insights into the inherent linguisticcharacteristics of languages.
Based on the resultsof corpus analysis, similar syntactic features ofspeech repairs ill German and Chinese wereidentified and the repair syntax was formallymodelled by means of phrasal modelling andfinite state automata.
Discrepancy at themorphological evel of both languages wasshown and more detailed investigations arenecessary.
Further analyses on acoustic-prosodicfeatures of cross-linguistic data am CmTentlybeing can'ied out.AcknowledgementsFd like to thank the Sonderforschungsbereich(SFB 360) colleagues in Bielefeld who collcctedand pre-proeessed the BAUFIX data as wall asthe colleagues in the Industrial ResearchTechnology Institute (IRTI) in Chu-Dong whokindly supported me with the TWPTH corpusdata.
Without them the investigation describedin this paper would not have been carried outand this paper could not possibly have beenwritten.Refe fencesChao Y.-R. (1968) A Grammar of S))ol:en Chinese.Berkeley: University of California Press.Clmi K.-W. (1996) Organization oJ" Repair #7Chinese Convel:vation.
Text 16/3, pp.
343-372.CKIP (1995) S#Tica Balanced ('.orpus.
TedmicalReport no.
95-02/98-04.
(in Chinese)Ekhmd R. and Shribcrg E. (1998) Civ.~'s-l, ingui.vticl)i,vfhten~3, Modeling: A Comparative AnaO~si,v o J",S~,edish and American Engli,s'h thtman-Humanand Hltnlan-Machme Dialogs.
in: ProceedingsoflCSLP'98.
Sydney, Australia.
pp.
2631-2634.Hecman, P. and Allen, J.
(1999)Speech Repair.~',hTtonational Phra,s'es and Discozuwe Marketw:Modell#Tg ,S)~eaketw' Utterances in ,S))okenDialogue.
Computational Linguistics 25/4.
toappear.Hindle, D. (1983) Determ#dstic Par,s'mg of,~vntactic Non-Jluencies.
In: ACL'83.Philadelphia, USA.
pp.
123-128.Lee Y.-S. and Chen H.-H. (1997) Using Acousticand Prosodic Cues to Correct Chhwse SpeechRepaim.
In: Proceedings of EUROSPEECH'97.Rhodes, Greece.
pp.
2211-2214.Levelt W. J.
(1983) Monitoring and 5'elf-l~epair #7Speech.
Cognition 14. pp.
41-104.869Li C. and Thompson S. (1981)Mandarin Chinese:A Functional Reference Grammar.
Berkeley:University of California Press.Liekley, R. J. and Bard, E. G. (1998) When CanListeners Detect Di~fluency m SpontaneousSpeech?
Language and Speech 41/2.
pp.203-226.Nakatani, C. and Hirschberg, J.
(1994) ACorpus-Based Study of Repair Cues mSpontaneous Speech.
Journal of lhe AcousticalSociety of America 95. pp.
1603-1616.Sagerer G. and Eikmeyer H. and Riekheit G. (1994)"Wtr bauen jetzt em Flugzeug": Konstruierenim Dialog.
Arbeitsmateriafen, Technical Report.SFB360 "Situierte Ktinstliche Kommunikation.University of Bielefeld, Germany.Tseng S.-C. (1999)Grammat; Pro.vody and SpeechDLsfluencies #~ Spolcen Dialogues.
PhD Thesis.University of Bielefeld, Gemlany.Tscng S.-C. (1998) A L#~guistic Analysis of RepairS(~,,nals m Co-operative Spoken Dialogues.
In:Proceedings of ICSLP'98.
Sydney, Australia.
pp.2099-2102.Uhmann, S. (1997) Selbstreparaturen inAlltagsdialogen: Ein Fall .\[ilr eine integrativeKonvetwationstheorie.
In: Syntax desgesprochenen Deutsehen.
Ed.
Schlobinski.Westdeutscher Verlag.
pp.
157-180.870
