A Formal Semantics for Generating and Editing PluralsPaul  P iwekITRI - University of  BrightonWatts Building, Moulsecoomb,Brighton BN2 4GJUKPaul .P iwek@itr i .br ighton.ac.ukAbst rac tWc present a formal semantics for an object-oriented formalism which allows for the represen-tation of plura, l objects (such as 'Three N', 'Mostof the N', 'Some N',...).
The semantics is given interms of it mapping to a variant of Discourse Rep-resentation Theory.
It is motivated by its suitabilitylkw natural anguage generation and interactive dit-ing of the representations.1 In t roduct ionA natural anguage generator typically generates anoun plnase l'rom a representation consisting of anobject with one or more attributes (cf.
Reiter &l)ale, 2000).
Usually this representation is sup-plemented with inl'ormation concerning the contextin which the noun phrase has io be realized (e.g.,the set of distractors, whether tile object is in fo-cus, etc.).
\];or instance, the lil,ICUP, l{ system (Dale,1992) deals with reference to plural objects by hav-ing the l'ollowing three attributes on physical ob-jects: structure, whose wflue can be either a set orindividual, cardinalio, which in case of a set recordsthe numbers of elements which the set has, and con-stituents which in case of a set contains the elementsof the set.Our proposal is intended to extend the representa-tions proposed in (Dale, 1992)) Most importantly,wc replace the attribute cardinalily with the moregeneral attribute quant (for quantifier) whose valueis a quantilier such as 'most', 'few', '5', '<  6' (atmost 6), etc.
Furthermole, we introduce the new at-tribute parl_of which takes its a value an ob.jecl ofwhich the object in question is a part.
~~Note that we are dealing with the generation of pluralsfrom (logically) structured data as opposed lo raw data as in,e.g., Stone (1999).2We use the mcfcologicat 'part of' relation as an alternativeIt} "subset' For details, see the next section.The object-oriented (00) forlnalism in which weimplement tile al'orelnentioned attributes is an ex-tension of standard oo  formalisms.
It is knownas Scoped Semantic Networks (SSN; Kibble et al,1999; Power, 1999).
3 An SSN consists of a net-work of objects together with a mapping o1' theseobjects to a set o1' logical contexts.
This makes itpossible to represent universal quantification, im-plication, negation and other logical operators.
Inparticulal; Power (1999) shows how an SSN can bemapped into a I)iscourse Representation Structure(DRS; Kamp & Reyle, 1993), lhus providing a for-lnal semantic interpretation of SSNs.In tiffs paper, we provide a mapping of SSNs withplural objects to an adapted version of DiscourseRepresemation Theory (I)RT).
The mapping is pro-vided to obtain t%rmal truth conditions for the SSNs.Such a lnaPlfing provides us with a mathenmlicallyprecise characterization el'the information which isrepresented by a SSN ill terms of its truth-condilions.This is useful if we want to automatically nanipu-lale lhe information which is represented by meansof an SSN.
For example, we can formally definewhether some piece of information is aheady im-plicit in some other piece of information; in otherwords, we can deline a notion of logical conse-quence.
Related to this is the possibility to use thesemantics in order to test the consistency of the in-formatiou conveyed by an SSN.
For tlmt purpose, wecan do so-called model checking: an SSN is consis-lent if we can construct a model -that is, a logicallypossible state of the world- in which tile SSN is trueaccording to our truth-conditional semantics.We do not provide a direct formal semantics forSSN, but rather map it to a more convenient log-ical l'ormalistn, i.e., I)P,T.
The main reason fortiffs approach is that phenomena which we will bemodelling in this paper, i.e.
(plural) reference andaScc also, e.g., Sowa (1984).607anaphora, have been studied extensively within I)RT(see, e.g., Kamp & Reyle, 1993; Krahmer & VanDeemter, 1998; Piwek, 1997).
Fnrthermore, we be-lieve that the adaptation of DRT that we propose isof interest in its own right.The mapping which we provide from SSNs withplural objects to DRSs requires some modificationsto standard DRT with plurals (Kamp & Reyle, 1993:Chapter 4).
For networks with only singular objects,there is a straightforward mapping of the objects ina network to the discourse referents which populatea DRS.
Things are different for networks with pluralobjects.
Consider:(1) Susan has found most books which Bill needs.The DP, S for this sentence is:(2)ybook(y)need(bill,y) found(susan,y)Intuitively, the meaning of this condition is that: fi')rmost y which satisfy the conditions to the le/'t of thediamond, it holds that they also sati,@~ the conditionon the right.
Note, that the representation containsno plural discourse referent corresponding tothe Nt''most books which Bill needs'.
The 'y' in this repre-sentation is a referent for singular individuals.
Thismight make one wonder how it is possible in stan-dard DRT to refer back to plural individuals as in:(3) Susan has found most books which Bill needs.They were on her desk.For this purpose, there is a so-called abstraction op-eration (Kamp & Reyle, 1993:313) with which wecan obtain a discourse referent for the set of bookswhich Bill needs and Susan Jbund.
In more tech-nical terms, the set is obtained by the summationof the values which 'y' can take.
Thus there is nodirect way of mapping a plural object in a seman-tic network (which represent the interpretation of anNP) to a plural discourse referent in the correspond-ing DRS.
For this reason we have chosen to adaptthe DP, T formalism, so that plural noun phrases dodirectly colTelate with plural discourse referents.We now proceed as follows.
In Section 2, wespecify the mapping from SSNs to our version ofDRT.
In the next section (Section 3), we describe anapplication which uses the SSNs with plurals.
Wefinish this paper with a conclusions ection (Section4).2 From SSNs to DRSsIn this section, we provide a mapping from SSNsinto discourse representation structures (DRSs) withplurals.
We start out by specifying the target of themapping, i.e., plural DRT.DRSs with Plurals Following Kamp & Reyle(1993), we treat singular objects and sets of objectsas entities of the same kind.
Both am consideredto be individuals: atomic and non-atomic individ-uals, respectively.
Thus, the model theory followsthe models which Link (1983) provides for countnounsfl The idea is that the denotation of an NPwhich contains a count noun can be uniquely subdi-vided into atomic parts (as opposed to the denotataof mass nouns).
The domain for NPs is structured bya prot-whole relation which satisfies the axioms ofupper semilattices (for background information onthese lattices see Kamp & Reyle, 1993:398-406).In formal terms, a model is defined as follows:A model _/14 is a quintuple (Lt, g, Pred, @mrzt, Name)which consist of:(1) A domain of individuals with the structure of a com-plete, free, atomic upper scmilattice H = (U, C) withzero;(II) A domain of eventualities with the structure of acomplete, free, atomic upper semilattice g = @7, C);(III) A function Pred mapping predicates P to their ex-tensions in k//, such that(III.1) for tim relations representing thematic roles, suchas agent and patiertt, I@ed assigns aset of tuples (c, a),wherecCEandaGU.
(III.2) for eventuality predicates, Prod(P) C_ E.(I11.3) For object ype predicates, Prod(P) C U.
(IV) A function Qua~tt mapping determiners DEW totheir corresponding interpretations, i.e., a set consistingof tuples {a, b) (where a, b C U).
(V) A function Name mapping constants o members ofU.
in particular, the constants c/,, where P is a predi-cate are mapped to ?Pred(P), i.e., the supremum, alsoknown as the sum, of the interpretation f P.Notice that in our models there are separate domainsfor objects and eventualities (i.e., states and events).4Fora critical discussion and alternative to Link (1983), seefor instance Landman (1989).608The relations agent and patient have an eventual-ity as their first argument and an object as secondargument (cf.
Parsons, 1990).
agent(e,o) is to beinterpreted as: object o is the agent of  eventual ity e.Furtherlnore, there are predicates applying to even-tualities and others applying to objects.For our purposes, the most interesting part of  thedefinition is the function Q~ta,~,t; which maps deter-miners to their respective interpretations.
We takethe interpretation of a determiner to be a set of tu-pies, where each tuple consist of a pair of  (plural) in-dividuals.
For instance, take the deterlniner 'most ' .Q'~m, nt, maps it to the fol lowing interpretation: '5(4) Q~ga~,t(Most) = {(r ,  c) : r c c & r is a non-atomic entity of M & kl  -> }Thus 'most '  corresponds to the set of  all tuples ofindividuals, such that the first individual is a non-atomic part of the second one and the cardinalityof the first is greater than or equal to the cardinal-ity of the second divided by two.
Henceforth,  wewill call the second individual the context individual(cf.
Westerstfihl, 1985).
Given a noun phrase, suchas 'most  birds',  the first individual is intended asthe interpretation of  the entire noun phrase whereasthe second individual plays the role of the con-text against which the noun phrase is interpreted.The context individual can be restricted by extra-linguistic c ircumstances (e.g., the siluation in wlaicha noun phrase is produced) and by linguistic means(as in 'most  of the birds on the beach' ,  where 'thebirds on the beach'  supplies the contextual individ-ual).Let us focus on the DRS condition which is inter-preted in the models in terms of @m,~,t.
This con-dition functions as a substitute for the duplex condi-tions of  standard DRT 6 The condition in question is:'51tere we follow Ihe 'more than half' interpretation of'most' common fi'om the literature on GEneralized Quantiliers(see, e.g, I?,arwise & Cooper, 1981; Keenan & Westerstahl,1997).
This interpretation is not entirely unproblematic; see,for instance, (Kamp & P, eyle, 1993).
Our use of the interpre-tation is, however, solely for illustrative purposes.
We can alsoaccommodate for alternative mappings fur Q~u~nt(Most).Similarly we cannot go into detailed iscussions of other quan-tifiers such as, for instance, 'many' (of.
Lappin, 1988).6Within the conlines of this paper it is impossible to give afull formal delinition of our version of plural I)RT, thcrelore wefocus on the aforementioned condition.
The other definitionsclosely lollow those in Kamp & P, eyle, 1993: 425-427, 677-6'79).If z is a discern;re referent and t is a discourse re\[er-ent or constant, then DETt(:c) is a condition.The verification condition for this condition is:(5) M ~f  DETt(:C) (if"(11 II II t IIAJ'f>Let us illustrate these definitions with a s imple ex-ample.
Consider:(6) At most two men walk.The NP 'At most two men'  introduces a plural dis-course referent X, together with a number  of condi-tions on that referent.
Additionally, the verb 'walk 'supplies a condition to the effect that all the mem-bers of X walk.
7,s(7)XAT_MOST_2c ....... (X)man(z)walk(z)walk*(X)The first condition says that X consists of a subset ofthe set of all men (cm,,,~, alternatively, we could usea set of contextually given men) and that X shouldconsist of  at most 2 individuals belonging to thatset.
'?
The implicative condition is there to make surethere is no other set apart from X with (other) menwho are also walking.
Such a closure condition isparticularly useful for the direct representation ofmonotonical ly decreasing quantifiers.
~?
A quantorQ is monotonical ly decreasing if and only if for all7For cxpository reasons, we have left out explicit represEn-tations of events in this example.
But, see the next section for aDP, S with plurals and events.8Note that when a predicate in a condition is marked witha '*', this means that the prcdicate is interpreted distributivelyover the atomic parts of the objects in its denotation.
"JWe assume that: @Umt(AT_MOST_2) = {(r, c) : r C c& I,'1 < 2}mln Van Eijck (1983), an allemative approach is proposedwithin a fl'amework which also allows for the direct representa-tion of plural referents in DRT.
lie proposes to reanalyse mono-tonically decreasing quantiliers in terms of negation and mono-tonically increasing ones.
This, however, means that WE nolonger have a direct correlation between plural discourse ref-erents and monotonically decreasing quantifiers.
Furthermore,it prevents uch quantifiers from any anaphoric uptake as in'Fewer than ten students took the test.
They all passed it'.609X,Y ,Z  it holds that: if QXY and Z ~ Y ,  thenQXZ.
Thus, for instance, (a) 'At most two meuwalk and talk' does not imply that (b) 'At most twomen walk'.
If we would represent (a) without theclosure condition (i.e., there is a set of at most twomen and each of them walks and talks), then (b) (i.e.,there is a set q\[" at most two men and each of themwalks) would follow fi'om (a).
However, if we addto the representation f (a) that there are no othersets of men who walk and talk and to the represen-tation of (b) that that there are no other sets of  menwho walk, then (a) no longer follows fiom (b); theadditional information in (a) that there are no othersets e lmen who both walk and talk, does not entailthat there are no other sets o/'men who walk.Seeped Semantic Networks A seeped semanticnetwork (SSN) is a triple (D, L, f ) ,  consisting of atyped DAG (Directed Acyclic Graph) D, a sef of log-ical contexts L and a function f which assigns a log-ical context (which are treated as primitive objectsseparate from those in the DAG) to each of the ob-jects in the DAG.
In the DAG, there are objects whichcorrespond with logical operators, such as implica-tion and negation, and non-logical objects, such asphysical objects and events.
The function f ,  whichassigns logical contexts to objects in a typed DAGD, satisfies the following constraints:(I) The root object and all the objects which are directdescendants of a logical operator are assigned a uniquelogical context.
These contexls inherit he partial order-ing (in the DAG) of the objects with which they are asso-ciated.
Furthermore, this set of logical contexts consti-tutes the range of f.(II) Logical operators which have not been assigned acontext by clause 1. are mapped to the logical context oftheir nearest ancestor to which clause 1.
applies.
(III) Objects which arc not assigned to a logical contextby the clauses 1. and 2. are assigned to a logical contextin accordance with DRT's accessibility rules.Consider, for instance, the following sentence:(8) If a man is happy, then he whistles.We can represent this sentence by means of the SSNin Figure 1.
In this representation, the dots repre-sent objects, the circles represent logical contexts(an object inside a circle belongs to the correspond-ing logical context), the solid arrows represent at-tributes and the dotted arrows represent that the ob-ject fi'om which the arrow originates belongs to thecontext o which the arrow points.There is a straightforward procedure for mappiuga SSN into a I)RS:(I) Logical contexts are mapped into boxes, where thenesting of the boxes is isomorphic to the partial orderingof the corresponding logical contexts.
(II) Objects are inserted into the box which correspondswith their logical context, except for logical operators.The latter are mapped onto the appropriate operators onthe boxes of their directly subordinate objects.
(III) Typing statements T(z) of a non-logical object areadded to the same box as the object z itself.
(IV) Attributions/{(.% !/), where z and !/are non-logicalobjects, are added to the same box as z.:~= ~ impl i cat ion%%happy(e)  ~ ?
)wh is t le4 #.e'~'O0~ ""0:4~?
manFigure 1" Network for (8)By applying these rules, we obtain the followingDP, S for the SSN in Figure 1 :(9)xehappy(e)man(x)agent(e,x)e ~=> whistle(e')agem(e',x)Note how the three circles in the SSN correspondwith the three boxes of the DRS.
Furthermore, thediscourse referent z colresponds to the object in theSSN of the type man and inhabits the same box asthe conditions which correspond to the object oftype happy and the attribute agent.SSNs with Plurals In this section, we describe anextension of SSNs for countable plural objects.
Thisextension requires no changes to the format of SSNs.Rathel, we introduce a number of special-purpose610attributions and types.
Subsequently, we specifytheir mapping to appropriate terms in a DRS.We introduce two attributes on cotmlable objects:(I) quant.
The wdue of this feature is reslricted to anoltiect of the type det_type.
Examples of tlle subtypes ofdcl, d, ype arc 2, > 1, < 3, all,.f>w, etc.
(11) parl,_of.
The value of this feature is restricted tocountable objects.The lnapping of SSNs which include these special-purpose attributions and types to a l)P,s is defined asfollows:(1) For typing statements T(x), where T is a subtype ofdel,_type: ignore the statement 7'(x) and the object x;(H) For attributions quant(x,y) such that ~z :p(,,rt_of(:,:,z) & z is an a,,cho,'& Tt(x) & 7~(y), addto the box in which also x lives the lbllowing condition:.r = T2(c7~).
Note that in this case T~ is subtype of&:t_type,.
The role of contextual individual is played by(:7,~, i.e., a constant which denotes lhe supremum of thedenotation of TI.
Furthermore, we add a closure condi-tion;(I\]tl) For attributions q'uant(:r,y) such that ~z :part_of(x, z) & T1 (x) & 7)(y) add to the box in whichalso :r lives the following condition: x = 5/)(z) .Further-more, we add a closure condition;(IV) Otherwise apply the standard mapping rules forSSNs (see the previous ection).Consider, lbr instance, the (phual) SSN for lhe sen-tence 'At most two men walk' in Figure (2).
:, ? )
wa lk-.f: 133V?
mar,at most 2Figure 2: Network for 'At most two men wall<'This SSN contains only one logical context which isinhabited by the objects of type man and walk.
Theobject of type man is possibly plural: its quant at-tribute points to an object of type at.anost_2.
Thevalue of the other attribute, i.e., part_oJ; is not in-stantiated in this case.
This is represented by meansof the empty box.
When we apply the rules for map-ping SSNs to DRSS, we obtain the following repre-sentation:(lO)atAT_MOST_2  c' ...... (X )man(X)walk(c)agent(e,X)z e Iman(z) z c Xagent(e',z) =>walk(e') ~e .
'~The first four conditions correspond to the types ofthe nodes and the attributes of the SSN.
They arefollowed by the closure condition.3 Ed i t ing  P lura lsIn tiffs section, we describe how plural SSNs can beused for WYSIWYM editing (Power et al, 1998).
1~WYSIWYM stallds for What Yott See \]s What YottMeant.
it is a technology for directly manipulat-ing knowledge representations u ing natural lan-guage feedback.
WYSIWYM \ ] las been used in var-ious systems for (multilingual) document authoringand query formulation.
The proposal which is pre-sented in tiffs paper has been inaplemented as partof the M ILF, query-answering system (e.g., Piwek ctal., 2000).The basic idea underlying WYSIWYM editing canbe presented by means of a simple diagram.W~- " update ,~'(!llt't'{ll(!Feedback text with anchors\[//.
~  select, paste, VIeW cut, copyFigure 3: The editing cycle11SCC also:http://www.itri.l~righton.ac.uk/resea,'ch.htnfl:ff:WYSlWYM611Figure 3. represents the editing cycle.
Given aSemantic Network (SN) in a knowledge base (KB),the system generates a description of the SN in theform of a 'feedback text' containing 'auchors' rep-reseuting places where the knowledge base can beextended.
Each anchor is associated with pop-upmenus, which present he possible editing opera-tions on the SN.
On the basis of the operation thatthe user selects, the knowledge base is updated anda new feedback text is generated from the slew con-tents of the SN.?
conjunctionfitted_with ?/~- -~ ?
conjunctioncarrierS?lid bulkl~ bilge'~l?
pump ?v1 3?
purposestatesequipment fire.
fightingFigure 4: Network underlying (11)Let us slow go through an example of editing pluralsas it is supported by our prototype system.
Let usjoin in at a point where the network in figure 4 hasbeen constructed.
12This network is presented to theuser by means of the following feedback text:( l l )  A solid bulk carries" is fitted with three bilgepumps.
Some equipment is used fox" firefight-ing.
Some states.copycopy somecutFigure 5: Pop-up menu on 'three bilge pumps'The spans in bold face indicate where tile network isstill incomplete.
Other spans of text represent spe-cific objects in the network.
For instance, the span'three bilge pumps' is associated with a plural ob-ject of the type 'bilge pump'.
When the user clicks12In order to keep the example transparent, not all informa-tion in the network has been represented.
Attribute names onthe edges, attributes without a value which arc not expressed inthe feedback text and the mapping fi'om objects to their logicalcontexts have been ommited.on this span, tile menu of Figure 5. pops up.
Letus assume that the user selects 'copy'.
In that case,the object which is associated with the span is savedin a buffer.
Subsequently, the user can click on thespan 'Some equipment'.
This causes tile followingmenu to pop up:I insert newpasteNow, file user can paste the object from tile bufferinto tlle location in tile network which is associatedwith 'Some equipment'.
This gives rise to the net-work in figure 6 and the following feedback text:(12) A solid bulk carrier is fitted with three bilgepumps.
They ax'e used for firefighting.
Somestates,?
conjunctionfittedwith ?
?
conjunctioncarrierS?lid bulk/~ bilge Zl ?
~purposepump ?
Z.. statesfire_fightingv1 3Figure 6: Network underlying (12)Note that now tile first attributes of both 'fitted_with'aud 'purpose' point to the same object.
In the feed-back text, this is expressed by using a pronoun forthe second reference to the object.Van Deemter and Power (1998) originally definedthe 'copy' operation for singular objects.
When wemove to plurals, alternatives to a simple copy op-eration become available.
Here, we want to dis-cuss one of those operations, i.e., copying part ofan object, instead of the entire object.
Let us returnto (l 1).
Suppose that the user had chosen 'copysome' on the menu of Figure 5.
The effect wouldhave been that a new object would have been cre-ated in the buffer with its attribute 'part_of' pointingto the object conesponding to 'three bilge pumps'(its 'quant' attribute would still have to be filledill).
Pasting this object into tile location marked by'Some equipment' would have yielded the follow-ing result:612(13) A solid bulk carrier is fitted with three bilgepumps.
Some number  of  them is used for fire-lighting.
Some states.Note that the text contains an anchor for the yet tobe specified value of  the 'quant'  attribute.
Clickingon the anchor activates the fol lowing menu:Selection of  'one'  yields the fol lowing text, whichis generated from the network in Figure 7:(14) A solid bulk carrier is fitted with three bilgepumps.
One of them is used for firefighting.Some states.
* conjunctionfitted with ?/ fsolid bulk /carrierV1-k ?
conjunction, ,  bilge J--bi lge, pumpz~ ?purp?se \[&pump~ Z.
~,~..o~ 4 Istates?
fire_fightingt03Figure 7: Network underlying (14)4 Conc lus ionsIn this papel, we have described some editing oper-ations on object-oriented networks with plural ob-jects and provided a Deeise formal interpretationfor these networks in terms of  a version of  Dis-course Representation Theory.
The networks whichwe have used are an extension of  commonly  usedoo  networks for natural language generation.
Inparticulm, our networks cover quantificational plu-ral noun phrases such 'most  N' ,  ' few N' ,  etc.Acknowledgements The research reported in thispaper was carried out as part of the EC Esprit fundedCLIME proiect (EP 25.414).
Thanks are due to LynneCahill, Roger Evans and Neil Tipper for stimulating co-of, eration within the CLIME temn at the University ofBrighton.
Furthermore, i would like to thank AlexanderBoer, Kces vail Deemtcr, Rodger Kibble, Richard Powerand two anonynlous COLING reviewers for commentingon earlier versions of tiffs paper.ReferencesBarwise, J.
& P,.
Cooper (I 981), Generalized Quantifiers andNatural Language, in: Linguistics and Philosophy 4.Dale, R. (1992), Generating Referring Expressions, M1TPress, Cambridge.Kamp, 1t.
& U. Reyle (1993), From Discourse to Logic,Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht.Keenan, E. & D. Westcrstfihl (1997), Generalized quantifiersin linguistics and logic, ill: Van 13enthem, J.
& A. terMeulen, Handbook of Logic and Language, Elsevim,Amsterdam, 837-894.Kibble, R., P,.
Power & K. van l)eemtcr (1999), Editing logi-cally complex discourse meanings, in: Proceedings of1WCS II1, 147-162.Kmhmel; E. & K. van l)ccmter (1998), 'On the Interpretationof Anaphoric Noun Phrases'.
in: Journal of Semantics,15 (3/4), 355-392.l,andman, F. (1989), G,'oups I and II.
in: Linguistics and Phi-losophy, 12, 559-605,723-744.Lappin, S. (1988), The Semantics of 'Many' as a Weak Deter-miner, in: Linguistics, 26, 1021-1037.Link, G. (1983), The Logical Analysis of l)lurals and MassTerms.
in: Baeucrle, R., C. Schwarze & A. yon Stcchow(eds.
), de Gmyter, P, erlin/New York, 303-323.Parsons, T. (1990), Events in the Semantics of English.
TheM1T Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Piwek, P. (1997), Accent Interpretation, Anaphora P, csolutionand hnplicature l)erivation, in: The Proceedings of lhe1 l th Amsterdmn Colloquium, University of Amsterdam,55-60.Piwek, P., R. Ewms, L. Cahill & N. Tippe, (2000), NaturalLanguage Generation in the MILl- System, in: Pro-ceedings of the IMPACTS in NLG Workshol), Schlosst)agstuhl, Germany.Powe,', R., 1).
Scott and P,.
Evans (1998), What Yott See IsWhat You Meant, Proceedings of ECAI 98, \]h'ighton,UK.Powcl; R. (1999), Controlling logical scope in text generation,Proceedings of the European Workshop on Natural Lan-guage Generation, Toulouse, France.P, eitct; E. & P,.
Dale (2000), Bt, ilding Natural Language Gen-eration Systems, Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge.Sowa, J.
(19841, Conceptual Structures, Addison Wesley,Reading, Massachusetts.Stone, M. (1999), Describing Sets with Covers and Sets of Ofdinary Assigmnents, in: Proe.
of The Generation Nomi-nal Expressions, workshop associated with ESSLLI 99.Van l)eemter, K. and R. Power (1998), Corefe,'enee in knowl-edge editing, in: Proceedings of the COLING-ACLworkshop on the Computational Treatment of .Nominals,Montreal Canada, 56-60.Van Eijck, J.
(1983), l)iscourse Representation Theory andl)lurality.
In: ter Meulen, A.
(ed.)
Studies in Modeltheo-relic Semantics, Foris, GRASS-I.Westcrstfihl, D. (1985), l)eterminers and Context Sets.
in: J.van Benthem and A. ter Meulen (eds.)
GeneralizedQuantiliers in Natural Language, Foris, GRASS-4.613
