Authoring Multimedia Documents using WYSIWYM EditingKees  van  Deemter  and  R ichard  PowerInfbrmat ion Technology Research Inst i tuteUIfiversity of Brighton, Brighton, UK,{Kees.
van.
Deemter, Richard.
Power}@itri.
brighton, ac.
ukAbst ract(1) This paper outlines a future 'ideal' nmlti-media document authoring system that allowsauthors to speci\[y content and form of the docu-ment independently of each other and at a h igt~level of abstraction;(2) It describes a working system that imple-ments a small but significant part of the flmc-tionality of such an ideal system, based on se-mantic modeling of tile pictures as well as thetext of the docunmnt; and(3) It explains what needs to be done to bridgethe gap between the implemented system andthe ideal one.1 A Future  ~Ideal' Mu l t imed iaDocument  Author ing  SystemA Document Authoring System is a tool thathelps an author to writ(; docmnents.
If the sys-tem supports tile authoring of documents thatcombine 'presentations' in diflb.rent media (textand images, for example), we will speak of amultimedia document authoring system.
Ide-ally, a multimedia document authoring systemwould allow authors to speci(y the content andfbrm of a high-quality document in ways thatare both simple and etiicient.
More specifically,an ideal system would aftbrd the tbllowing op-tions to the author:1.
Easy determination of content.
~Content'is taken to mean the factual (i.e., proposi-tional) content of the docmnent - in otherwords, the content of the Knowledge Base(KB) that forms the input to tilt documentauthoring system.2.
Easy determination of style and layout.
Inthe absence of specific instructions from theauthor, style and layout should be deter-mined using intelligent defimlts.
(For ex-ample, tile standard settings may requiretilt document o be infi)rmal, with avoid-ancc of technical terms, lists and footnotes,without nlaximum paragraph length, andwith numbered sections.)
Defaults can beoverridden by the author, whereupon otherdefaults mw become relevant.3.
Easy allocation oJ' media.
As in the caseof style and layout, the system has to usejudiciously chosen de.faults: perhaps usingillustrative pictures wherever suitable pic-turks are available, and graphs or tableswherever large amomlts of homogeneouslystructured quantitative information are in-volved.
As above, defaults may be over-ruled by specific requests from the author;if a request is impossible to fifllfil, an appro-priate error message should tm generatc(t.4.
Easy annotation of non-generated presen-tations.
In some cases, it will be possibletbr the system to generate presentations.
Inother cases, this mw be impossible: Liter-ally quoted texts, for example, or historicphotogral)hs , m~y predate the use of thesystem, in which case it may be necessaryto treat them as 'canned' and to annotatethenl to allow the system to make intelli-gent use of them.5.
Easy post-editin.q.
Once tile system hasproduced a document according to thespecifications of the author, the ideal sys-tem would oiler tools to address remainingilmdequacies using post-editing.
'Easy' means efficient, protected against incon-sistencies, and not requiring specialist skills orknowledge.
A domain specialist, - who may notknow anything about knowledge representation,logic, or linguistics - could use such a system to222build KBS that l;he sysl;elll call turn into docu-menl;s in any desired bmguage using any desired(:olnbination of media.
The 1)reduction and ut)-(b~ting of (;omplex documents would l)e greatlysimplitied as a result.In present-day practice, these requirements endto be far from realized: authoring docuxnents bymeans of such l;oots as MS WORD or POWER,-POINT requires much low-level int;eraction, suchas the typing of (:haracters (m a keyl)o;trd antithe dragging of figures from one plwsic~d lo-cal;ion t;o m~other.
In SOllle cases, all h~telli-gent Mult, inledia l)resentation Systc, ln (IMMPSe.g., Bordegoni et al 1.997) can be used (seeAIR 1995, Maybury and Wahlster 1998 for somesurveys), which (nnploys techniques from Arti-ficial Intelligence to allow higher-lew~l intera('-l;ion.
Present IMMI'S, howev(,r, meel; few of the\]'e(luirenmnl;s nenl;ioned al)ove.
Most ()f l;hem,fi)r exmnl)le ~ require intmt ()t' a highly Sl)e(:ial-ize.d 11al;llre (e.g., the (;omt)lex logical fornm-las ent;ere(t in the wIP sysl;em, An(trd and II.isI;1995) 1 and l;hey allow an author little (:ontrolover the tbnn (e.g., layout, textual style, me(liaallocation) of the (loellnlenl;.
The issue of easyamlol.ation (d) is never even ad(lress(',(t, to timbe, st of our knowledge.The, next section descril)es an iml)hnnented sys-tem tbr l;he authoring of teztual (lo(:uinents l,hal.can |)e ~rgue(l to fltllill requirements (1) and(2) and which tbrms n suitnbh: st~rtin g pointfor working towards the 'ideal' multimedia sys-l;e111 outlined above,.
Section 3 des(:ril)es ~tll ex-tension of this system in which signiticallt as-1)ect;s of re(luireln('nt;s 3-5 h~we also been ilnl)le-menl;ed.
Key features of l;his new sysl;em nre itsability to use .semantic 'repre.s'entatio'n.s l;hat are.common to the different media, and the abil-ity to construct natural language feedback textsto help the author understand the contenl; andthe form of |;lie document while it is still raidereonsl;ruction.
The concluding section exl)lainswhat needs to be done to till the gap |)el, weenthe iml)lemenl;ed sysl;eln and |,tie ideal one.1An exception is AIA,Tes(:o whit:h takes natural lan-guage input~ requiring the system to interpret uncon-strained natural language (Stock 1991).
Avoiding theneed for doing this is an important design motivationfor WYSlWYM-based syst;enis.2 A WYSIWYM-based  System tbrthe  Author ing  o f  Textua lDocumentsElsewhere (Power mid Scott 1998, Scott el; al.1998, Scott 1999), a new knowledge-editing1net;hod called ~WYSIWYM editing' has been in-troduced and motivated.
WYSIWYM editingallows a domain expert to edit a knowledgebase (KB) by inl;er~wl;ing with a .\[~edbaek ic.
:rt,,generated by the system, which pl'esents boththe knowledge, already defined and the optionsfor exl;ending and modit~ying it.
Knowledge isadded or modified by return-based choices whichdirectly Mti;et the knowledge base; the result isdisplayed to the author by means of an auto-matic~lly generated feedback text: thus ~WhatYou See ls What You Meant'.
WYSIWYM in-stant|ares a general recent trend in dialogue sys-l;ems |;owards moving some of the initiative fromthe user to the sysl;em, ~dlowing such systenls toavoid the (titli(;ulties of t)ro(;essing %t)cn ~ (i.e.,tureens|rained) input.Of parti(:ular importance, here, m:e at)plieationsof WYSIWYM to the generation of documents(:ont~dning text mid 1)ietures; the t)resent sec-tion tbcuses on (multilingual) tezt generation:l;he KB (:re~Lted with the help of WYSIWYM isused as input to a natural language generation(NLG) l)rogrmn, pro(hu:ing as output a docu-ment of some sort, for I;he benelit of ~m enduser.
Present apt)lications of WYSIWYM \[;o i;exl;generation use a KL-ONE-I,yl)e knowledge rep-resentation language as input to two NLG sys-\[;elliS.
()lie NLG sys|;elll generates tb.edback texts(for l;he raft;her) ml(t I;h(' other gener~d;es on|trotl;exi;s (for all ell(t l lser).
Ol le at)plication cur-rent ly  under develotmmnl; has 1;11(; creation ofPatient Informal;ion Leaflets (PILLS) aS its do-main.
The present vt;rsion of this PILLs systemallows authors to enter information about pos-sible side eft'cots ( ' i f  you are either pre.qnant o1"allergic to penicillin, then tell your doctor') andhow to handle lnedical devices such as inhalers,inoculators, etc.
By interacting with the feed-back texts generated by the system, the authorcan detine a procedure for perfornfing a task,e.g.
preparing an inhaler for use.
A llew KBleads to the creation of a procedure instance,e.g.
p. The permanent part of the KB (i.e.,the T-Box) spt, eifies l;haI; procedures ma, y be223complex or atomic, and lists a number of op-tions in both cases.
In the atomic case, the op-tions include Clean, S tore ,  Remove, etc., andthese are made visible by means of a metal fromwhich tile author can select, say, Remove.
Tileprogram responds by adding a new instance, oftype Remove, to the KB:Remove(p)('There is a procedure p whose type is Remove.
')th'om the updated knowledge base, the genera-for produces a feedback textRemove this device or device-partfrom this device or device-part,making use of the infbrmation, in the T-Box ofthe system, that Remove procedures require anActee and a Source.
Such not yet defined at-tributes are shown through mouse-sensitive an-chors.
By clicking on all anchor, the authorobtains a pop-up metal listing the pernfissiblevalues of the attrilmte; by selecting one of theseoptions, the author updates the knowledge base.Clicking on this device or device part yieldsa pop-up menu that lists all the types of devicesand their parts that the systenl knows about, in-eluding a Cover (which, according to the T-Boxmust have a Device as Owner).
By continuingto make choices at anchors, the author mightexpand the knowledge base in the tbllowing se-quence:?
Remove a device's  cover from a deviceor device-part?
Remove a device's  cover from an inhalerof a person?
Remove a device's  cover from your inhaler?
Remove your inhaler's cover from your in-halerAt this point the knowledge base is potentiallycomplete, so a (less stilted) outp'ut tczt can begenerated and incorporated into the leaflet, e.g.Please remove the cover of your ill-haler.Longer output texts can be obtained by expand-ing the feedback text fitrther.
A numl)er ofproi)erties of the PILLS system are worth stress-ing.
First, the system sut)ports a high-level di-alogue, allowing the author to disregard low-level details, such as the exact words used in theoutput text.
This makes it possible to interactwith the system using, say, French (provided agenerator tbr French feedback texts is available),for the i)roduction of leatlets in Japanese (pro-vided a generator for Japanese output texts isavailable).
The semantic model in the T-Boxguarantees that many types of inconsistencies(e.g., a medicine that has to be taken both onceand twice a day) are prevented.
Second, a sire-ple version of WYSIWYM has also been appliedto the tbrm of the text, allowing the author tospecit) it separately from its content.
This isdone by allowing the author to use WYSIWYMtbr building a second, form-related KB whichdescribes the st~.tlc and layo'ut of the docmnent.Th is  KB, for example, may state that the maxi-mum paragraph length is 10 sentences and thatthere are no tbotnotes.
(A second, form-relatedT-Box deternfines what the options determininglayout are.)
This form-related KB constrains thetexts that are generated.
By interacting withfeedback texts describing the tbrm-related KB,the author changes the stylistic/layout proper-ties of the document.A WYSIWYM-based  System forthe  Author ing  o f  Mu l t imed iaDocumentsILLUSTrl, ATE is ai1 extension of PILLS produc-ing documents that contain pictures as well aswords.
Consider a toy exalnl)le, adapted fromABPI (1997).
Suppose the document says Re-move the cover of your inhaler.
An instructionof this kind may be illustrated by the picturebelow.
How can a document authoring systemproduce a document in which appropriate pic-tnres illustrate the text when this is desired?ILLUSTRATE does this by allowing an author toask tbr pictorial il lustration of the intbrmationin the document by interacting with the feed-back texts.
The author can indicate, fbr a givenmouse-sensitive stretch s of the feedback text,whether she would like to see the part of thedocument hat corresponds to s illustrated.
Ifso, the system searches its library to find a pic-ture that matches the meaning of s. In Fig.2,the author has requested illustration of the in-224i .
.
.
.
.
.
.
1_/IFigure 1: One of the picture.s ill the lit)rary ofthe a, uthoring systemstruction (:orresl)onding with tim text 'Removeyour inhaler's cov(,r fi'om your inhaler'.
(Theotlmr four options are irrelevant for t)resent pur-poses . )
In domains where all the pictures are, i\[:Jle ;%.
'.ture f,.',oda!~t?
C,srltr0l\ ]{en lova  your  inha le r '  s cover  h ' ,  .
.
.
.
.
.
, .
, , , .
; , .h  .
I .
.
, .ti i i l i  i:. '
.t 2c .
.
fvs , : l : t ;C,:,I>'~CLR(gel)ell : t~,  a,%i.
: !
!,,,,d,, di, r ~Figur(' 2: Screen(hunt): Author makes a re-.quests for illustrationvariations on a common theme, suitnble pic-tures can be generated.
Ill the case.
of l)atient;Information LeMtets, however, this was not apractical option because of the many ditDrentkinds of things depicted in the leaflets: medicinepackages, body parts, medical at)l)licmmes, var-.ious t;yl)eS of actions, etc.
Pictures, moreover,are he,wily reused in the diit'erent leatlets writ-tell \])y the S&lilO company.
For these reasons,IIAAJSTRATt?, llses ~tii alternative al)proaeh, se-lecting pictures from a library, each of which is;tnnol;at,ed with ~t formal rel)r(;sentation of itsmeaning.
We will explain the workings of IL-LUSTRATE by answering three questions: (\])What kinds of rei)resent~tions are used ill the li-brary to annotate the pictures with relevant as-l)ects of their meaning'?
(2) How is the .~;emanti-(:ally annotated library of t)i(:tures created'?
and(3) What selection algorithm is employed to re-trieve all optimally approt)riate illustration for agiven part of the, KB frolll the library?
We shallassmne that the information whose illustrationis requested con'esponds with the following for-mul~t in the KB, which tel)resents the metalingof the feedback text ill Fig.
2.R,'~,,,,o~,,'.
(t,) ,V Acto,'(p) = .
',:I~,.a~.,'(.~:) g So,,,,.,:c~(;,) = v a~Inhalcr(y) ~ Actce(p) = zg = v.('There exists a 'Remove.'
action whose Sere'cois an Inhah'.r and who.~e Ad, ee is a Cover of thesame inhaler.')1.
What  k inds  of  representat ions  areused?
Representations say what informationeach pictm'e intends to convey.
Irrelewmt de-tails shouht be omitted.
It has been observedthat photographic pictures express 'vivid' in-formation and that this intbrmation can beexpressed by a conjmmtion of positive, literals(Levesque 1!)86}.
In line with this obserwttion,ILLUSTI/ATE rei)resents the lllea, nillg of the pic-ture in Fig.
1, for example, as follows:;~+.',,,.o~,+.
'(p) *+ So',,.r',:+.
'(p) = :\]H-I*",'(V) ,V A,tc~;(~,) =a C,,',.
',,'(~) a O',,,,,.
', '(~) = :,j.
(The leattet.~; (le,~mril)e Inhalers, Autohale.rs, andAerohalers.)
If any of the wtriables c, :r, y, z has&Ii oc('urrelice ill the llle;tlling rel)resentation ofmlother 1)i(:ture thei~ these occurrences coref'er.This ~:dlows the systmn to know wh(.
'n two pi(:-tm'es depict the same.
i)erson, for examt)le (VailDemrd:er and Power 1999).2.
How is the  l ib rary  c reated?
This is aquestion of great imi)ortmlce because the librarycontains emantic representations that m'e lIlltChmore detailed than those in current picture re-t r ieval  systems (e.g.
Van de ~vVaal \]995) nml thiscouht potentially nmke the &llllOtat;iOll t;ask ex-tremely })ur(lensome (Enser 1995).
The an,~werto this t)rol)lem may be unext)e(:t;e(l: ILLUS-TI1ATE u.qi'.s WYSIWYM it;self to emtl)le authorst.t) associate ;t given t)icture with a novel rep-resenl;;tl;ion.
The class of representations tlmt225are suitable for expressing the meaning of a pic-ture is, alter all, a ('vivid') subset of tile classof representations allowed by the T-Box tbr timtext of the document, and consequently, timsame WYSIWYM interlhce can be used to createsnch representations.
Fig.
3 contains a screen-dump of the annotation process, wtmre the cnr-rent annotation corresponds with the formulaCover(z) & Owner(z) = y.
Note that thisformula is still incomplete because the natureof the Source is undefined.
(When it is finished,the feedback text will be eqniwtlent o that inFigure 2.)
The top of the screendump shows theaccompanying feedback text containing anchorstbr flsrther additions.Figure 3: Screendump: A stage during tile an-notation of a picture3.
What  is the select ion algorithm?
A pic-ture can illustrate ass item of information with-out expressing everything in it.
For example,Fig.
1 does not show that the Actor is theReader and it leaves the type of 'Haler' unspec-ified.
(They all look alike.)
So, a selection rulemust allow pictures to omit intbrmation:Select ion Rule: Use the logicallys t rongest  picture whose representa-tion is logically impl ied  by  the infor-mation to be illustrated.
(Van Deemter1999)Logical strength is determined on the basis ofthe two semantic representations alone.
Deter-mining whether one representation logically ira-lilies tim other, where one is an instance in theKB and tim other a representation of a picture,is easy, given that both are conjunctions of pos-itive literals.This brief description should suffice to highlightthe following advantages of ILLUSTRATE:?
One unifbrm interface is employed for allactions that involve the editing of semanticrepresentations, regardless of the type ofpresentation i volved (i.e., its media).?
When used for the construction of anno-tations of pictures, the T-Box of the sys-tem snakes sure that only those propertiescan enter an annotation that are relevant inconnection with it.
In the present domain,for example, the height of the patient is ir-relevant, and consequently the T-Box doesnot make height all attribnte of a person.,, Pictures are retrieved by a reasoning pro-cess involving classical ogic; since a matchbetween a picture and a piece of the KBcan never be inexact, there is no need tbrthe retriewfl process to be probabilistic, ashas to be done when the system has lesscontrol over the form of annotations (VanRijsl)ergen 1985, Van Deesnter 1999).Specific aspects of ILLUSTRATE have been de-scribed elsewhere, but the assumptions belfindthe system as a whole have not beess tated be-fore.
(For tlm representation scheme and theselection scheme see Van Deemter 1999; tbrthe treatment of sequences of pictures see VanDeemter and Power 1999.)
We have so t'nr sin>plified by assuming there to be only one au-thor.
In fact, however, an intelligent authoringsystem is most useflfl when there are several au-thors (each of which can be allowed to work in adifferent langnage).
More specifically, it is plan-sible that the person anthoring the annotationsin the library is not the santo as the person(s)who author(s) the document itself.4 Future  Work  Towards  the  I dea lThe PILLS system (section 2) makes a firststab at fnlfilling text-related requirements 1 and2 nmntioned in section 1.
The ILLUSTRATEdemonstrator goes beyond this, fulfilling impor-tant aspects of requirements 3 and 4 as well.226Yet, there is a considerable ga t) l)etween the im-i)hmlented system and the ideal one of section1.
Possit)le improvements do not only concernthe (:overage of the sysl;em, but matters of sys-tem arehitectm:e as well.
Three (titti;rent sets ofimprovements may l)e dis(:erned.
Firstly, thereis rcquirelnent 5 of section 1, whi(:h requireseasy postediting.
It is easy to allow at%hers tomake h)w-levcl corrections in the document a.f-let the interaction with WYSIWYM, HIlL unlessthe system 'understands' the, meaning of theediting actions, i)ostediting destroys tlm con-ne(:tion t)etween the edited document an(l the(:ontent of l;he various knowledge l)nses.
Conse-quenl;ly, l)OSt-editing is not a t)ractieal t)ossit)il-ity yet, giv(;n the state of the, m:t in text- andpicture understanding.Other imt)rovements would 1)e less t)rol)lem-atic.
On the one hand, there are issues thathave been t~mkled by other research groups andwhose sohltions we inten(t to (:arty over to aWYSlWYM-l)ased setl;ing.
These (:on(:ern thegeneration ot' gral)hies Kern underlying rel)re-sentations (Wahlster et; al.
1993) and the 1)rot)-lem of ot)timizing tim layout of text & \])i(:turedo(:uments (e.g.
Grat)h et al 1996), l'or in-stall(;e. Three remaining imt)rovements , (m theOt\]ler \]lall(t~ ~LFe lllal;t(~rs for fill;tire l;('.s(?~l;(;ll:?
Media alloc,,tio'n,.
\]LLUSTRATF eml)o(li(',sone way in whi(:h media may be allocated.Other mechanisms (:ould give the systemmore autonomy.
For example, l;he systemmay use rules (e.g.
I/.oth and Hettey 1.!
)93)to decide alltOllOnlOllsly what illforlllationis in need of illustration.
Simih~rly, authorsmay 1)e enabled to 1)oint at thmnlmail 1)ie-tures, whereul)On the system tries to fin(t asuitable place in the document o includethem, based on the ret)resentation of theirmeaning and making use, of the Se lect ionRu le  of section 3.
By thus allowing the au-thor and the system to coot)crate on mediaallocation, this ditiicult task will t)e lnademore tractable (see the recent discussionsill ETAI 1997-8).?
Other media.
Little in ILLUSTRATE hingeson the fact that the ol)jects in the lil)raryare t)ictures.
The Salll(.
~ system, for exam-t)le, can be used tbr ammtating somul orcanned tez t  (for examl)le, a complex t)it ofbtw {:ode, which needs to be rendered liter-ally).
Of great practical interest, finally, isthe 1)ossil)ility of including docunlents au-thored previously (and possibly by a dif-ferent author), leading to iterative applica-tions of WYSIWYM.?
bttcract ion bctwc.cn media.
Ide~flly, thewords in a text should be Ml'ected by theinclusion of a picture: First, and most obvi-ously, texts im~y be cnlauicd by retbrencesto 1)ictures (e.g., references like ~See Fig.3' may l}e.adde{t, {:f Paraboni an{t Vanl)eemter 1999).
Secondly, texts may 1)ered,uccd because information expressed inthe 1)ictme can l)e shortened (or left outall;ogether).
One type of situation wherethis h~q)l)ens i  cxempliiied by t;he text '12,o-move the ('al)sule frolll the foil as shownin the \])i(:ture' (ABPI 1997), a(:(:omt)anie(t1)y a t)i(:ture showing how this may bedone.
Oth(;r tyt)es of situation in(:lude thecase where quantil;ative inforln~ttion is ex-1)resse(t through a vague textual descril)l;ion('a blol) of (:ream', ~a tingertip of ointmead:')that is made more l)re(:ise by means of apicture showing t\]w, required amount.It should 1)e noted that each of these extensionsdel)ends ('ru('ially on ILLUSTRA'I'E:s at)ility toma.nil)ulate the semanti(: rel)resentations ass()-('iated with multimedia objc(:ts, whoxc' one midthe same rel)resental;ion language is used fbrthe difl'erent media: a lmfltimedia qnterlingua'(e.g.
Barkcr-Plummer and Greeves 1995).In the ('ase of an author selecting a t)icturcusing tlmmbnails, tbr exami)le , the semanticrel)resentation cnal)les the author to (a) t indasuitabh; local;ion for the t)ieture and (1)) adat)tthe, (;ext l)y omitting fl'om i(; information thatis now expressed by the picture.A final extension of the ideas outlined in thist)aper would involve completing the symmetrybetween feedl)ack and outl)ut: all t)resentWYSIWYM systems IlSe Imrely textual feedback.In prin(:it)le, however, feedt)ack can l)e asmultimodal as the target document.
We arecurrently exploring the 1)ossibility of allowingan author to express some of her choices byclicking on a mouse-sensitive part of a picture;the system could generate an ui)dated feedbacktext (possibly along with an updated t)icture)227as a result.
Iu some technologically complexdomains, for example, where a brief descriptionof an object may be difficult to obtain, thismight lead to a fllrther improvement of theWYSIWYM technique.ReferencesABPI (1997).
The Association of the BritishPharmaceutical Industry, 1996-1997 ABPICompendium of Patient Information Leaflets.Am (1995).
Special Issue, edited by P. McKevitt, on Integration of Natural Languageand Vision Processing: Intelligent Multimedia.Artificial Intelligence Review 9, Nos.2-3.E.
Andr6 and Th.
Rist (1995).
GeneratingCoherent Presentations Employing Textual andVisual Material.
Art{ficial Intelligence Review9:147-165.D.
Barker-Hummer and M. Greeves (1995).Architectures for Heterogeneous Reasoning.In J.Lee (Ed.)
Prec.
of First InternationalWorkshop on Intelligence and Multimodality inMnltimedia Inte1:faces: Research and Applica-lions (IMMI- 1), Edinburgh.M.
Bordegoni, G. Faconti, S. Feiner, M.T.Maybury, T. I{ist, S. Ruggieri, P. Trahanias,and M. Wilson (1997).
A Standard ReferenceModel for Intelligent Multimedia PresentationSystems.
Computer Standards & Interfaces 18,pp.
477-496.P.
Enser (1995).
Progress in Docmnentation;Pictorial hffbrmation II,etrieval.
Journal ofDocumentation, Vol.51, No.2, pp.126-170.ETM (1997, 1998).
ETAI News Journal onIntelligent User Interfaces, Vol 1, No's 1 and 2.W.H.
Graf, S. Neurohr, and R. Goebel (1996).A Constraint-Based Tool for the Pagination ofYellow-Page Directories.
In U. Geske and H.Simonis (Eds.)
Procs.
of KI96 workshop ondeclarative constraint programnfing.
GMD-Studien 297, St. Augustin.H.J.
Levesque (1986).
Ma~king Believers out ofComputers.
Artificial Intelligence 30, pp.81-108M.
Maybury and W. Wahlster (1998).
Read-ings in Intelligent User Interthces.
MorganKaufmmm Publ., San Francisco.I.
Paraboni and K. van Deemter (1999).
Issuesfor Generation of Document Deixis.
Ill E.Andrd c ta l .
(Eds) Procs.
of workshop onDeixis, Demonstration and Deictic Belief inMultimedia Contexts, ill association with tilel l th  European Smnmers School in Logic,Language and Information (ESSLLI99).R.
Power and D. Scott (1998).
MultilingualAuthoring using Feedback Texts.
In Prec.
ofCOLING/A CL co#:ference, Montreal.S.
Roth and W. Hefley (1993).
IntelligentMultimedia Presentation Systems: Researchand Principles.
In M.Maybury (Ed.)
IntelligentMultimedia Interlaces, AAAI Press, pp.13-58.D.
Scott, R. Power, and R. Evans (1998).
"Generation as a Solution to its own Problem",Accepted for Prec.
of 9th International Work-shop on Natural Language Generation.D.
Scott (1999).
The Multilingual GenerationGame: authoring fluent texts in unfamiliar lan-guages.
Proceedings of the 16th InternationalJoint Conference on Artificial Intelligence(IJCAI'99).O.
Stock (1991).
Natural Language and Explo-ration of an Information Space: the aLFfl'escoInteractive Systein.
In M. Maytmry and W.Wahlster (1998).K.
van Deemter (1999).
Docunlent Geuerationand Picture Retrieval.
In Prec.
of ThirdInt.
Conf.
on Visual hfformation Systems,Amsterdam, Springer Lecture Notes.K.
van Deemter and R. Power (1999).
Inclusionof Picture Sequences in Generated Docmnents.In Prec.
of iburth Portuguese Conf.
onArtificial Intelligence, Evora, Springer LectureNotes.H.
van de Waal (1995).
ICONGLASS; An leone-graphic classification system.
Amsterdam 1973-1985 (17 vols).
ISBN 0-7204-8264-X.
See also<http : / / i cone lass .
leg .
ruu.
n l /home, html>.C.J.
van Rijsbergen (1989).
Towards an inibr-mation logic.
In: Prec.
ACM SIGIR.W.
Wahlster, E. Andrd, W. Finkler, H.-J.Profitlich, and Th.Rist (1993).
Plan-basedIntegration of Natural Language and Graph-ics Generation.
Artificial Intelligence 63,p.387-427.228
