Binding Constraints as Instructions of Binding MachinesAnt6nio BrancoI)ept.
of ll~fi)rmatics, University of LisbonFaculdade de Ciancias de LisboaCampo Grande, 1700 Lisboa, PortugalAntonio .B ranco@di .
fc.ul .p tAbstractBinding constraints have resisted to be fullyintegrated into the course of grammaticalprocessing despite its practical relevanceand cross-linguistic generality.
The ultimateroot for this is to be found in the exponential"overgenerate & filter" procedure of themainstream rationale for their satisfaction.In this paper we design an alternativeapproach based on the view that nominalsare binding machines.IntroductionBinding constraints are an important set of filtersin the process of anaphor resolution'.
As theydelimit the relative positioning of anaphors andtheir possible antecedents in the grammaticalgeometry, these constraints are of crucialimportance for restricting the search space forantecedent candidates and enhancing theperformance of resolvers.
From an empiricalperspective, they stem from quite robustgeneralizations and exhibit a universal character.given their parameterized validity across naturallangnages.
From a conceptual point of view, inturn, the relations anaong binding constraintsinvolve non-trivial symmetry, which lends thema moduhtr nature.
Accordingly, they havetypically been taken as one of the mostintriguing and robust gramnaar modules.I See Annex for examples and the definition ofbinding constraints.Ill contrast to this, however, the formal andcomputational handling of binding constraintshas presented non-negligible resistance when itcomes to their integration into the representationand processing of grammatical knowledge.In its mainstream formulation, the methodologyfor verifying the compliance of grammaticalrepresentations with binding constraints requiresa series of extra grammatical parsing steps(Chomsky, 81).
More recently, prominentunification-based frameworks either requirespecial purpose extensions of the descriptionformalism for a partial handling of theseconstraints (LFG: Dalrymple, 93), or offer nointegration yet for them into the grammaticalsetup (HPSG: Pollard and Sag, 94.. Backofen etal., 96).Our primary aim in this paper is to bridge thisgap between the gram,natical nature of bindingconstraints and their full integration intogrammar processing.
In Section 1, we reviewprevious steps towards this goal proposed in theliterature.
Building on these contributions inSection 2, we introduce the rationale of a newmethodology for the verification of bindingconstraints, in Section 3, in the light of this newapproach, we show how these constraints arefully integrated into g,ammar and the drawbacksof current methodology are overcome.1 The Cohldexation ParadigmThe specification of binding constraints havegreatly evolved in the htst three decades.
Thedevice of coindexation for marking anaphoric104links has, however, remained quite stable.
Thisstems from the fact this device is at the heart ofthe mainstrealn lethodology for verifying theseconstraints, a methodology whose basics wereproposed in (Chomsky, 80, 81) and have beenadopted since then in its different variants.L1 Post -g rammat ica l l  overgerierat ior~and fi lteringThis methodology can be outlined as in Fig.
1.After the grammatical parsirig of a seritericewith n NPs has been completed:(i) iteration:repeat (ii)-(iii) uritil allpossible different assignments of n indices(tokens) have been exhausted;(ii) indexat ion:generate a tree by assigningindices to its NPs;( i l l ) f i l ter ing:store the arniotated tree if theindexation of NPs respects bindingconstraints, otherwi'~e dc:letc it.Fig.
1 ?
('/wm,vk),'.v al:;()i?ithmAs noted as early as in (Correa, g/'), thi:~approach is grossly inefficient.
Later Fong, 90?showed that its complexity is of exponentialorder.
Moreover, this methodology disregardsany concern with interfacing grarnmar withsystems for reference processing.
The input forsuch systems wil l  riot l)c a grammaticalrepresentatiori to lie refined vis4-vis theheuristics for anaphor esohition, but a forest ofdifferently labeled trees that have to beinternally searched and compared with eachother by anaphor esolvers.Besides the efficiency issue, this methodologyimplies the conceptual awkwardne.,;s of having a<2 tnodnle of ~rammar that is not made operative~,ranallaatical processing, but as an during the <2extra-grammatical dd-on.
Correa, 88, p.123~observed that although the integration of bindingconstraints "into rules which rnay be used toderive structure that a l ready  satisfies the\[constraints\] is not a straightforward task", thatshould be the path to follow, a point alsostrongly stressed in subsequent elaboration o11this isstie by Merle, 93.1.2 Packag inganaphor ic  ambigu i tyA first proposal for enhancing integration ofbinding cosntraints into grammar is due toCorrea, 88.
Simplifying some details, theproposed algorithm can be outlined as in Fig.2.Start fl'om the top of the tree with two emptystacks A and B where indices will becollected, respectively ocal c-commandingindices and non-local c-commanding indices.While walking down a tree where every NPl-ias a distinct index (type):When an NP is found:(i) copy:leave a copy of A (if it is ananaphor) or B (if it is a pronoun) at the NPnode;(ii) a,vsign:take the first index i of the stackcopied into the NP node., take the NP iridex j,and annotate the NP with j=i;(iii) collect:add NP index j to A.When a local domain border is crossed:(iv) reset:reset B to A m:B.t,'i,g-.
2 -, Cor/ea's a&orithmThis algorithm was given two differentimplementations, one by Correa, 88, the other byIngria and Stallard, 89.
Further elaboration byGiorgi et al, 90, and Pianesi, 91, led to arestatement of this algorithm using formallanguage techniques.The do-it-while-parsing approach of Correa'simplelnenlation has the advantage of discarding)OSW a special-purpose \[ .'
erammatical module forbinding.
That iml~lementation, however, tulnsout to be del)cndent on a top-down parsingstrategy.
On the other hand, lngria and Stallard'simplementation has the advantage of beingindelmridenl of the parsing strategy adopted.105This was done however at the cost of stillrequiring a special purpose postgrammaticalparsing module for binding.Besides the issue of bringing binding intogrammar, it is worth noticing that this evolutioninside the coindexation paradigm presented asignificant improvement and yet a cleardrawback.
On the one hand, if one disregardsstep (ii) (a disguised recency heuristic spuriouslymixed with binding constraints) and considersthe result of verifying binding constraints to bethe assignment to an NP of the set of indices ofits antecedent candidates, then it is possible todiscard the proliferation of indexed trees as away to express anaphoric ambiguity.On the other hand, the algorithm isacknowledged not to be able to cope withconstraints possibly involving non-localanaphoric links.
Principle C, backwardsanaphora or cross-over cases were not accountedfor (Correa, 88, p.127, Ingria and Stallard, 89,p.268).
Moreover, as stack B only containsindices of the non-local c-commanders 2, but notall indices in the tree except those of the localc-commanders, Principle B is also not correctlyaccounted for.1.3 Packaging non-localityOther contributions to improve the coindexationmethod are due to Dalrymple, 93 andJohnson, 95.
Instead of being directed topackaging ambiguity as the one above, theyhave in common being concerned withpackaging non-locality.1.3.1 Nodes as mirrors o f  treesJohnson's algorithm is embodied in Prolog code.Abstracting away from details associated to thatformat, it gets the outline in Fig.3.2 C-command is a configurational version of thecommand relation where x c-commands y iff the firstbranching node that dominates x dominates y.Although this outline renders the algorithm in abottom up fashion, Johnson ingeniouslydeveloped an implementation that is independentof the parsing strategy resorting to delayingmechanisms.
Crucially, in spite of its postgrammat ica l  f lavor, l ikewise Correa'simplementation, this algorithm does not requirepostgrammatical processing.These results were obtained with some(i) Repeat (ii) until all NP~ (l<_i_<n) in thetree have been used as starting points;(ii) Walk up the tree from NPi andrepeat (iii) until the top node of the tree isreached;(iii.i) When other locally c-commandingNPj is found:(iii.i.i) if NPi is a short-distancereflexive, annotate NPi with i=j;(iii.i.ii) if NPi is a non-reflexive,annotate NP~ with i:~j;(iii.ii) When other non-locallyc-commanding NP 3 is found: if NP~ is anon-pronoun, annotate NP~ with i~j.Fig.
3 - .lohnson's algorithmaccessory devices: Each node in the tree is"conceptualized asa pair consisting of a tree anda vertex in that tree" (p.62).
Consequently, thewhole tree where a given NP appears is locallyaccessible to be "walked up" since its replica ispresent at the pair (Category, Tree), which is theNP node itself.This algorithm improves the coindexationmethodology in terms of efficiency as it does notresort to free indexation.
Note, however, that theanaphoric ambiguity of pronouns andnonprououns i not captured (Principles B andC) since grammatical coindexation of pronounsor nonpronouns with their possible antecedentsis dismissed.
Only reflexives and theirantecedents end up coindexed, while the indexof a pronoun is only made "unequal" with the106indices of its (non-grammatical) locallyc-commanding antecedents.
Nevertheless, evendispensing with free indexation and restrictingthe representation of anaphoric ambiguity toreflexives, this approach does not get rid of theproliferation of trees: For a given reflexive, eachcorresponding tree/coindexation represents adifferent antecedent candidate.1.3.2 Equations with regular expressionsThe I_,FG/I)alrymple, 93, account of bindingresorts to a different approach to generalize overthe eventual non-locality of anaphoric links.
Ituses lexical "inside-.out equations", aspecial-purpose extension of the descriptionformalism which may include regular'expressions (as in (3) below for long-distancereflexives):(1) John/introduced Billj to himself//)-.kimse(\[!
((()Bi-c;<,,,i "1" ) SUB J) o.
= 1"c~ or((()13L(;<,~u "1" ) ()B\])c ~ = ~'o(2) *John introduced Bill/to hirrli.him: ((()BI<<,:,I I" ) ()BJ)o.
~ "i" o.
(3) Zhangsani yiwei \[LMi yiwei\[...z_~i_i/j/k/...\]...\]Zkangsani thouglu \[Li.v(i tlumgkt f .. kimi/j,d../...Jz(ji: ((OBJ * J" ) S\[JBJ)<, = 1" oThe right-hand side of the equation stands forthe sernantic representation (c~) of tilefunctional-strncture ('\]') of the anaphor.
The lefthand side stands for the semantics of theantecedent: In (3) the Chinese long-distancereflexive is an Object in a functional--structurewhere one of the upstairs Subjects may be theantecedent.Although initial scepticism about the tractabilityof these equations was dissipated by Kaphm andMaxwell, 88, the survey by Backofen et al, 96,reports that no iml~lemented I,FG grammar wasknown to handle binding.
To a significant extentthis bears on tile fact that many differentequations have to be defined for every anaphor:Each equation specify concrete grammaticalfunctions for the anaphor and its potentialantecedent, but either the anaphor or theantecedents may occur with one of a range ofseveral grammatical functions (see a n-finimalex,'lnlple ill (1)).
Moreover, it is not defined hownon-lexical NPs (e.g.
anaphoric definitedescriptions, ruled by Principle C) may beassigned the respective equation.However these difficulties turn out to be solved,the LFG variant of the coindexationmethodology presents the same type of problemsof Johnson's approach.
The proliferation ofrepresentations is not avoided: The ambiguity ofreflexives may end up represented by severaldifferent grammatical representations.
Theserepresentations correspond to the satisfaction ofthe different equations involving differentgrammatical functions, as in (1), and possiblyresult also from the several existentialinterpretations of functional tmcertainty in thecase of long-distance reflexives, as in (3).Likewise, the ambiguity of pronouns is omittedin the single functional-structure resulting fromthe universal interpretation f negative quationsassociated with these anaphoric expressions.Moreover, the positive equations for reflexivesdo not require identity of indices betweenanaphorically related expressions, but insteadimpose identity of semantic representations, thisway incorrectly enforcing any type of anaphora(bound, bridging, e-type, "donkey", etc.)
to thesole modality of coreference.2 The  Concept  o f  B ind ing  Mach ineBeing partially successful in overcomingproblems of tile original post-gramnmtical"overgenerate & filter" methodology, each of tilecontributions mentioned above brought to tilefore essential dimensions of binding that have tobe concomitantly acconnted for.
Accordingly, analternative methodology for binding constraints107verification should find a way to harmonize allthese dimensions: lexicalization, anaphoricambiguity, packaging and non-local contextpackaging.Given these hints, a breakthrough depends nowon changing some entrenched primitivesunder ly ing the concept ion of bindingconstraints.
These constraints have beenbasically taken as syntactic wellconditions: "\[they\] capture the distribution ofpronouns and reflexives" (Reinhart andReuland, 93, p.657).
In line with Gawron andPeters, 90, however, we take them as conditionson semantic interpretation, as they delimitnon-local aspects of meaning composition.In what follows, we set up a semantics-drivenmethodology for verifying binding constraints,organized under the rationale that an NP is abinding machine: (i) it reads a representation ofthe context; (ii) updates its own semantics giventhis context and its own anaphoric potential (inaccordance with its binding constraint, if it is anon-quantificational NP); (iii) and makes acontribution to the context, against which otherNPs are interpreted.
This rationale is in line withthe insights of Johnson and Klein,90 concerningthe processing of the semantics of nominals, andalso the spirit (but by no means the letter) of thedynamic semantics framework (Chierchia, 95).The output of a nominal n as a binding machineis simply the incrementing of the context with acopy of its reference marker (Kamp andReyle, 93).
The internal state of the machineafter its operation is a compacted representationof the anaphoric potential of n, if any, under theform of the set of the reference markers of thegrammatically admissible antecedents of n - -this internal state results fiom the bindingconstraint, lexically associated to n, beingapplied to the input.
The input is a representationof the relevant aspects of the context under theform of a set of three lists of reference markers,A ,  Z and U ,  from which the internalstate/semantics of anaphors can be computed.Taking n and its subcategorizing predicator p, Ais the list with the reference markers of thecomplements of p ordered according to theirrelative obliqueness; Z includes the elements ofA plus the reference markers of the upstairspredicators directly or indirectly selecting thedomaiu of p, observing the multiclausalobliqueness hierarchy; and U is the list of allreference markers in the discourse context.Given this setup, the verification of bindingconstraints consists in a few simple steps.
If n isa short-distance r flexive, A' is associated to itssemantic representation, where A' contains thereference markers of the o-commanders of n inA.
If n is a long-distance reflexive, its semanticrepresentation i cludes Z', such that Z' containsthe o-commanders of n in Z.
If n is a pronoun,the set B=U\(A'u{refin,,}) is coded into itsrepresentation.
Finally if n is a nonpronoun, itssemantics keeps a copy of C=US(Z'u{ refin,,}).3 An HPSG exerciseThis methodology can be easily accommodatedin a unification-based framework such as HPSG.We designed an extension to the UDRTcomponent for HPSG of Frank and Reyle, 95.This component is encoded as the CONT(ENT)value, which is enhanced now with featureANAPH(ORA).
On a par with this extension, alsothe NONLOC(AL) value is extended with the newfeature BIND(ING), with subfeatures LIST-A,LIST-Z, LIST-U and LIST-protoU.The SYNSEM value of a pronoun is as follows:p ,  MAXLS LI,-MIN ~V~\]SU.ORD { }J\[l ,ABEl, LOC\[CONT / C?NDs \[LARG-R ~\ ]}\[.A.NAPIt \[-REFM \[JJ \[ANTEC non - Ioc -  ocom(lW\], VVI,~j-)-LIST- ANLOC I BIND LIST- Z IJST- ULIST- protoU (\[~\])j108The relational constraint ~on-loc-ocomm takes(in first argnnlent) all markers in the context.~iven in LISI'-U wflue, and remove l'rom themboth the local o-commanders (included insecond argunrent) of tlie t)ronoun and thepronoun itself (in third argument).Under the conception of nominals as bindingmachines, LISTSA, LIST-Z and LIST-U stand forthe input, ANTEC(EDFNTS) encodes the internalstate, and REF(ERENCE)M(ARKF.R) encodes theoutput.
The SYNSEM of other anaphors, ruled byPrinciples A, C or Z, art quite similar to the oneabove.
The major difference lies in the relationalconstraints in ANTEC value, which encode thecorresponding binding constraint 3.Turning now to the lists with reference markers,we handle them by means of a new HPSGprinciple, the Binding I)omains Principle.
Thisprinciple consists of three clauses constrainingsigns and their values with respect o these lists.I)ue to space limitations a, we illustrate thisPrinciple with its ('lause 1, for LIST-U andLIST-protoU:Binding Domain~ Principle, Clause I(i) in every sign, LlST-protoW value is identicalto the concatenation f LlST-protoU values of itsdaughters;(ii) in a sign of sort discourse, I,IST-protoUand LIST-U wflues are token-identical;(iii) in a non-NP sign, LIST-U wflue istoken-identical to each LIST-U value of itsdaughters;(iv) in an NP sign k:(iv.i) in Spec-daughter, LIST-U value is theresult of removing the elements of LIST-e\ valueof Head-daughter from the I,IST-U value ot' k;3 Binding constraints fin non-lexical nominals arelexically stated in their determiners.4 Binding constraints are fttlly integrated in acomputational lIPS(; gramma,, documented in(Branco, 99).
(iv.ii) in Head-daughter, LIST-U value is theresult of removing the value of REFM ofSpec-daughter from the IJST-U value of k.The HPSG ontology was extended with the sortd iscourse  corresponding to sequences ofsentential signs.
Subclause (iv) above is meantto avoid what is known as i-within-i effect.ConclusionIn this paper we designed an alternative to themainstream postgrammatical "overgenerate &filter" methodology for the verification ofbinding constraints.
Our semantics-drivenmethodology is based on the conception of NPsas binding machines.
We showed how thisinnovation helped to integrate bindingconstraints into grammar epresentation andprocessing and to avoid the intractability impliedby the mainstream ethodology.AcknowledgementsI am grateful to Hans Uszkoreit for patientadvice and criticism.
My thanks go also to MarkJohnson for helpful discussion.AnnexRecent results (Xue et al, 94, Branco andMarrafa, 98) indicate that there are four bindingconstraints:Principle A.
'A locally o-commanded short-distance r flexivemust be locally o-bound.Lee i thinks \[Ma.~ i saw himselj,i/j/.Principle Z:An o-commanded long-distance r llexive mustbe o-bound.Zhang.valq zhidao /Lis'{/ remvei \[gqH~gwttk:ui .vihmm z!/i/.//kl/Zhangsan k ow \[Lisi think \[Wangwu most like sell'I\]Zhangsani knows that Lis!/ thinks that \Vangwu k likeshimi,j/lmnself k most (Xue et al, 94)1 09Principle B:A pronoun must be locally o-free.Leei thinl~v \[Ma.x).
saw himi/*j\]\].Principle C:A nonpronoun must be o-free.\[Kimi'sJJ'iend \]j tkinks \[Lee saw Kimi/*j\].These constraints are defined on the basis ofsome auxil iary notions.
The notion of localdomain involves the partition of sentences andassociated grammatical geometry into two zonesof greater or less structural proximity withrespect o the anaphor.
O-command is a partialorder under which, in a clause, Subjectso-command Direct Objects, Direct Objectso -command Indirect Objects, and so on,following the usual obliqueness hierarchy ofgrammat ica l  funct ions,  being that in amulticlausal sentence, the upstairs argumentso-command the embedded arguments, etc.
Thenotion of o-binding is such that x o-binds y iff xo..commands y and x and 3' are coindexed, wherecoindexation is meant to represent anaphoriclinks.ReferencesBackofen, R., T. Becker, J. Calder, 3.
Capstick,L.
Dini, J. D6rre, G. Erbach, D. Estival,S.
Manandhar, A. Mineur, G. van Noord, S. Oepen,1t.
Uszkoreit.
1996.
Final Report of the EAGLESFormalisms Working Group.
Luxemburg: EC.Branco, A., and P. Marrafa.
1998.
Long-distanceReflexives and the Binding Square of Opposition.G.
Webelhuth, J. Koenig and A, Kathol.
eds.Lexical and Constructiomll Aspects of LinguisticExplamaion.
Stanford: CSLI Press, 163-177.Branco, A.. 1999.
Reference ProcessMg and itsUlliversal ConstraMts.
Doctoral disse,tation.Lisbon: University of Lisbon.Chierchia, G.. 1995.
Dylmmics of Mealling.Chicago:Univ.
of Chicago Press.Chomsky, N.. 1980.
On Binding.
Linguistic lnquily,1-46.Chomsky, N.. 1981.
Lectures on GovermneJlt andBinditlg.
Dordrecht: Foris.Cor,ea, N.. 1988.
A Binding Rule forGovernment.-binding Parsing.
COLING'8&123-129.Dah'ymple, M.. 1993.
The Sy~tax of AmtphoricBinding.
Stanford: CSLI Press.Erbach, G.. 1995.
ProFIT, Prolog with Features,Inheritance and Templates.
EACL'95, 180-187.Fong, S.. 1990.
Free Indexation.
ACL'90, 105-110.Frank, A., and U. Reyle.
1995.
Principle--BasedSemantics for HPSG.
EACL'95, 9-16.Giorgi, A., F. Pianesi and G. Satta.
1990.
AComputational Approach to Binding Theory.COLING'90, 1-6.Ingria, R., and D. Stallard.
1989.
A ComputationalMechanism for Pronominal Reference.
ACL'89,262-271.Johnson, M.. 1995.
Constraint-based NaturalLanguage Parsing.
Barcelona: 7th ESSLI.
CourseNotes.Johnson, M., and E. Klein.
1990.
Discourse,Anaphora nd Parsing.
ACL'90, 197-302.Kamp, H., and U. Reyle.
1993.
From Discourse toLogic.
Dordrecht: Kluwer.Kaplan, R., and J. Maxwell.
1988.
An Algorithm forFunctional Uncertainty.
COLING'88, 297-302.Merlo, P.. 1993.
For an Incremental Computation ofIntra-sentential Coreference.
IJCAI'93, 1216-1221.Pianesi.
F.. 1991.
Indexing and ReferentialDependencies within Binding Theory.
EACL'93,39-44.Pollard, C., and I.
Sag.
1994.
Head-Driven PhraseStructure Grammar.
Stanford: CSLI Press.Reinhart, T. and E, Reuland.
1993.
Reflexivity.Linguistic lnquio,, 657-720.Xue, P., C. Pollard, and I.
Sag.
1994.
A NewPerspective o,1 Chinese Ziji.
WCCFLI3.
Stanford:CSLI Press.110
