Integrating compositional semantics into a verb lexiconHoa Trang Dang, Karin Kipper and Martha PalmerDepartment of Computer and Information SciencesUniversity of Pennsylvania200 South 33rd StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19104, USA{htd,kipper, mpahner} @linc.cis.upenn.eduAbstractWe present a class-based approach to building averb lexicon that makes explicit the close asso-ciation between syntax and semantics for Levinclasses.
We have used Lexicalized Tree Adjoin-ing Grammars to capture the syntax associated witheach verb class and have augmented the trees to in-clude selectional restrictions.
In addition, semanticpredicates are associated with each tree, which al-low for a colnpositional interpretation.1 IntroductionThe difficulty o1' achieving adequate hand-craftedsemantic representations has limited the lield ofnatural language t)rocessing to applications thatcan be contained within well-deIined sub-domains.Despite many different lexicon development ap-proaches (Mel'cuk, 1988; Copestakc and Sanfil-ippo, 1993; Lowe et al, 1997), the field has yetto develop a clear conseusus on guidelines for acolnputational lexicon.
One of the most controver-sial areas in building such a lexicon is polyselny:how senses can be computationally distinguishedand characterized.
We address this problem hy em-ploying compositional semantics and the adjunctionof syntactic l)hrases to support regular verb senseextensions.
This differs l'rom the Lexical Concep-tual Structure (LCS) approach exemplified by Voss(1996), which requires a separate LCS representa-tion for each possible sense extension.
In this pa-per we describe the construction of VerbNet, a verblexicon with explicitly stated syntactic and seman-tic information for individual exical items, usingLevin verb classes (Levin, 1993) to systematicallyconstruct lexical entries.
We use Lexicalized TreeAdjoining Grammar (LTAG) (Joshi, 1987; Schabes,1990) to capture the syntax for each verb class, andassociate semantic predicates with each tree.Althougla similar ideas have been explored forw:rb sense extension (Pusteiovsky, 1995; Goldberg,1995), our approach of applying LTAG to the prob-lem of composing and extending verb senses isnovel.
LTAGs have an extended omain of local-ity that captures the arguments of a verb in a localmanner.
The association of semantic predicates to atree yields a complete semantics for the verb.
More-ovel, the operation of adjunction in LTAGs providesa mechanism for extending verb senses.2 Levin classesLevin verb classes are based on the ability of a verbto occur in diathesis alternations, which are pairsof syntactic frames that are in some sense meaningpreserving.
The fundalnental ssulnption is that thesyntactic frames arc a direct reflection of the under-lying semantics, ltowever, Levin classes exhibit in-consistencies that have hampered researchers' abil-ity to reference them directly in applications.
Manyverbs ale listed in multiple classes, some of whichhave confl icting sets of syntactic frames.
Dang et al(1998) showed that multiple listings could in somecases be interpreted as regular sense xtensions, anddefined intersective Levin classes, which are a moreline-grained, syntactically and semantically coher-ent refinement of basic Levin classes.
We representthese verb classes and their regular sense xtensionsin the LTAG forlnalism.3 Lexicalized rI?ee Adjoining Grammars3.1 Overview of formalismLexicatized Tree Adjoining Granunars consist of afinite set of initial and auxiliary elementary hees,and two operations to combine them.
The min-imal, non-recursive linguistic structures of a lan-guage, such as a verb and its complements, are cap-tured by initial trees.
Recursive structures of a lan-guage, such as prepositional modifiers which resultin syntactically embedded VPs, are represented byauxiliary trees.1011Elementary trees are combined by the operationsof substitution and adjunction.
Substitution is a sim-ple operation that replaces a leaf of a tree with a newtree.
Adjunction is a splicing operation that replacesan internal node of an elementary tree with an aux-iliary tree.
Eveu tree is associated with a lexicalitem of the language, called the anchor of the tree.Tile tree represents the domain over which the lex-ical item can directly specify syntactic onstraints,such as subject-verb number agreement, or seman-tic constraints, uch as selectional restrictions, all ofwhich are implemented as features.LTAGs are more powerful than context free gram-mars (CFG), allowing localization of so-called un-bounded dependencies that cannot be handled byCFGs.
There are critical benefits to lexical seman-tics that are provided by the extended omain oflocality of the lexicalized trees.
Each lexical en-try corresponds to a tree.
If the lexical item is averb, the conesponding tree is a skeleton for an en-tire sentence with the verb already present, anchor-ing the tree as a terminal symbol.
The other partsof the sentence will be substituted or adjoined in atappropriate places in the skeleton tree in the courseof the derivation.
The composition of trees duringparsing is recorded in a derivation tree.
The deriva-tion tree nodes correspond to lexically anchored el-ementary trees, and the arcs are labeled with infor-mation about how these trees were combined to pro-duce the parse.
Since each lexically anchored initialtree corresponds to a semantic unit, the derivationtree closely resembles a semantic-dependency rep-resentation.3.2 Semantics for TAGsThere is a range of previous work in incorporatingsemantics into TAG trees.
Stone and Doran (1997)describe a system used for generation that simul-taneously constructs the semantics and syntax ofa sentence using LTAGs.
Joshi and Vijay-Shanker(1999), and Kallmeyer and Joshi (1999), describethe semantics of a derivation tree as a set of attach-ments of trees.
The semantics of these attachmentsis given as a conjunction of formulae in a flat seman-tic representation.
They provide a specific method-ology for composing semantic representations muchlike Candito and Kahane (1998), where the direc-tionality of dominance in the derivation tree shouldbe interpreted according to the operations used tobuild it.
Kallmeyer and Joshi also use a flat semanticrepresentation to handle scope phenomena involv-ing quantifiers.4 Descr ip t ion  of  the verb lexiconVerbNet can be viewed in both a static and a dy-namic way.
Tile static aspect refers to the verb andclass entries and how they are organized, providingthe characteristic descriptions of a verb sense or averb class (Kipper et al, 2000).
The dynamic as-pect of the lexicon constrains the entries to allowa compositional interpretation i LTAG derivationtrees, representing extended verb meanings by in-corporating adjuncts.Verb classes allow us to capture generalizationsabout verb behavioL Each verb class lists the tlle-mafic roles that the predicate-argument structure ofits members allows, and provides descriptions ofthe syntactic fi'ames conesponding to licensed con-structions, with selectional restrictions defined foreach argument in each frame, l Each frame alsoincludes semantic predicates describing the partic-ipants at various stages of the event described bythe frame.Verb classes are hierarchically organized, ensur-ing that each class is coherent - that is, all its mem-bers have common semantic elements and share acommon set of thematic roles and basic syntacticframes.
This requires ome manual restructuring ofthe original Levin classes, which is facilitated by us-ing intersective Levin classes.5 Compositional SemanticsWe use TAG elementary trees for the descriptionof allowable frames and associate semantic predi-cates with each tree, as was done by Stone and Do-ran.
The semantic predicates are primitive enoughso that many may be reused in different rees.
Byusing TAGs we get the additional benefit of an ex-isting parser that yields derivations and derived treesfiom which we can construct the compositional se-mantics of a given sentence.We decompose each event E into a tripar-tite structure in a manner similar to Moens andSteedman (1988), introducing a time function foreach predicate to specify whether the predicate istrue in the preparatory (d~ring(E)), cuhnination(er~d(E)), or consequent (res~ll:(E)) stage of anevent.hfitial trees capture tile semantics of the basicsenses of verbs in each class.
For example, manyIThese restrictions are more like preferences that generate apreferred reading of a sentence.
They may be relaxed epend-ing on the domain of a particular pplication.1012S \[ cvcnt=E \] S \[ event=E2 \]NP.,.sH$ VP \[ cvcnt=E \] NParqo$ VP \[ event=E1 \]\[ +aninmtc \] \] \[ +animale \]V V NI),~,.ql$I \] \[ +animate \]1"1.11| rU l lmotion(during(E), Xa,.al ) motion(during(El), Xargl )Figure 1 : Induced action alternation for the Run verbsverbs in the Run class can occur in the induced ac-tion alternation, in which the subject of the inmmsi-tive sentence has the same thematic role as the directobject in the transitive sentence.
Figure l shows theinitial trees for the transitive and intransitive vari-ants for the Run class, along with their semanticpredicates.
The entity in motion is given by argl,associated with the syntactic subject of the intransi-tive tree and the direct object of the transitive tree.The event denoted by the transitive variant is a com-position of two subevents: E1 refers to the event ofav.ql running, and E2 refers to the event of an entity(argO) causing event E l .Predicates are associated with not only the verbtrees, but also the auxiliary trees.
We use a flatsemantic rcpmsentatiou like that of Kalhncycr andJoshi, and the semantics of a sentence is the con-junction of the semantic predicates of the trees usedto derive the sentence.
Figure 2 shows au auxiliarytree for a path prepositional pllrase headed by "to",along with its associated semantic predicate.When the PP tree for "to the park" is adjoiued intothe intransitive tree for "John ran", the semantic in-terpretation is the conjunction of the two predicatesmotion(during(E),john) A goal(end(E),john, park);adjunction into the transitive tree for "Bill ranthe horse" yields cause(during(E2),bilI, El) A mo-tion(during(El), horse) A goal(end(El), horse, park).In both cases, the argument X,rs?0.,rgl (john orhorse) for the anxiliary tree is noulocal and colnesfrom the adjunction site.
2 The arguments are re-covered from the derivation tree, following Canditoand Kahane.
When an initial tree is substituted intoanother tree, the dependency mirrors the derivationstructure, so the variables associated with the sub-2X.,..qo,.,.ga is the variable associated with the cntity in mo-tion (ar91) in the tree to which tile PP a(Uoins (argO).stituting tree can be referenced as arguments in thehost tree's predicates.
When an auxiliary tree isadjoined, the dependency for the adjunction is re-versed, so that variables associated with the hosttree can be referenced as arguments in the adjoin-ing tree's predicates.VPVPar:jO* PP\[ evc,~t=l~ \]I' NP.rql$Iloqoal (end(E), X,.,.
;jo.,,.r11, Xa,.~j1)Figure 2: Auxiliary path PP treeThe tripartite vent structure allows us to expressthe semantics of classes of verbs like change ofstate verbs whose description requires reference toa complex event structure.
In the case of a verbsuch as "break", it is important to make a distinc-tion between the state of the object before the endof the action and the new state that results after-wards.
This event structure also handles the eona-tive construction, in which there is an intention ofa goal during the event, that is not achieved atthe end of the event.
The example of the cona-rive construction shown in Figure 3 expresses theintention of hitting something.
Because the in-tention is not satisfied the semantics do not in-clude the predicates manner(end(E),fi~rcefuI, X, rgo )A conmct(end(E),X, rgo,Xc~rgO, that express thecompletion of the contact with impact event.The ability of verbs to take on extended sensesin sentences based on their adjuncts is captured in a1013S \[ event=E \]NPa~.qO$ VP \[ evcnt=E \]V NPargl$Ihitmanner(during(E), direetedmotion, Xa,..qo )Acontact(end(E), Xar~O, Xar~l )A7naT,,nel' (end(E), f of'ee f '~l, Xar9O )s \[ cvcnt=r~: \]NParq0$ VPV VPIhit V PPIIatmanner (during(E), direct, edmotion, X~r:io )Figure 3: Syntax and semantics of transitive and conative construction for Hit verbsnatural way by the TAG operation of adjunction andour conjunction of semantic predicates.
The orig-inal Hit verb class does not include movement ofthe direct object as part of the meaning of hit; onlysudden contact has to be established.
By adjoininga path PP such as "across NP", we get an extendedmeaning, and a change in Levin class membershipto the Throw class.
Figure 4 shows the class-specificauxiliary tree anchored by the preposition "across"together with its semantic predicates, introducing amotion event that immediately follows (meets) thecontact event.VP \[ evenI:E \]VP.rf/o*\[ cvcnt=EargO \] PPP NPargl.~IaCI'OSSmeets (E,,..,jo, E) Amotion(during(E), X~m~,0.,,.91 )Avia(during(E), X~r,jo.~r~l , Xa,.,j1)Figure 4: Auxiliary tree for "across"oll the LTAG formalism, for which we already havea large English grammar.
Palmer et al (1998) de-fined compositional semantics for classes of verbsimplemented in LTAG, representing general seman-tic components (e.g., motion, manner) as featureson the nodes of the trees.
Ore" use of separate log-ical forms gives a more detailed semantics for thesentence, so that for an event involving motion, it ispossible to know not only that the event has a motionsemantic omponent, but also which entity is actu-ally in motion.
This level of detail is necessary forapplications uch as animatiou of natural anguageinstructions (Bindiganavale t al., 2000).
Anotherimportant contribution of this work is that by divid-ing each event into a tripartite structure, we permit amore precise definition of the associated semantics.Finally, the operation of adjunction in TAGs pro-vides a principled approach to representing the typeof regular polysemy that has been a major obstaclein buildiug verb lexicons.Researching whether a TAG grammar for Verb-Net can be automatically constructed by using de-velopment tools such as Xia et al (1999) or Candito(1996) is part of our next step.
We also expect o beable to factor out some class-specific auxiliary treesto be used across several verb classes.6 ConclusionWe have presented a class-based approach to build-ing a verb lexicon that makes explicit and imple-ments the close association between syntax and se-mantics, as postulated by Levin.
The power of thelexicon comes from its dynamic aspect hat is based7 AcknowledgmentsThe authors would like to thank the anonymous re-viewers for their valuable comments.
This researehwas partially supported by NSF grants IIS-9800658and IIS-9900297 and CAPES grant 0914-95.1014ReferencesRalna Bindiganawde, Willianl Schuler, Jan M. All-beck, Nornlan I. Badler, Aravind K. Joshi, andMartha Pahner.
2000.
Dynamically AlteringAgent Behaviors Using Natural Language In-structions.
Fourth International Cot!ference onAutonomous Agents, June.Marie-Hdl~ne Candito and Sylwtin Kahane.
1998.Can the TAG derivation tree represent a senlan-tic graph?
An answer ill the light of Meaning-Text Theory.
In Piz)ceedhtgs of the Fourth 77~G+Workshop, pages 21-24, Philadelphia, PA, Au-gust.Marie-Hdl~ne Candito.
1996.
A Principle-BasedHierarchical Representation f LTAGs.
In Pro-ceedings of COLING-96, Copenhagen, Denlnark.Aim Copestake and Antonio Sanfilippo.
1993.Multilingual exical representation.
In Proceed-ings ,2.1" the AAAI Spring Symposium: BttildingLexicons.for Machine Translation, Stanford, Cal-ifornia.Hoa Trang l)ang, Karin Kipper, Martha Pahner, andJoseph Rosenzweig.
1998. hwestigating regu-lar sense extensions based on intersective Levinclasses .
In Proceedings of COLING-ACL98,Montreal, Canada, August.Adele E. Goldberg.
1995.
C'onslruclions.
A Con-struction Grammar Approach 1o k rgument Slrttc-lure.
University of Chicago Press, Chicago, Ill.Aravind K. Joshi and K. Vijay-Shanker.
1999.Compositional semantics wilh LexicalizedTlee-ac\[joilfing Granllnar: How nlueh under-specification is necessary?
In Proceedings ofthe Third International Worksho I) on Conq)tt-rational Semantics (IWCS-3), pages 131-145,Tilburg, The Netherlands, January.Aravind K. Joshi.
1987.
An introduction to tree ad-joining grannnars.
In A. Manaster-Ramer, ditor,Mathematics of Language.
Jolm 13elljamins, Am-sterdaln.Laura Kalhneyer and Anwind Joshi.
1999.
Under-specified selnantics with LTAG.
In Proceedhlgsof Amsterdam Colloquium on Semantics.Karin Kippm, Hoa Trang Dang, and Martha Palmer.2000.
Class-based construction of a verb lexi-COll.
Ill Pn)ceedings of the Seventh National Con-ference on Art!\[icial httelligence (AAAI-2000),Austin, TX, July-August.Beth Levin.
1993.
English Verb Classes and A Iter-nation, A Preliminary hwestigation.
Tile Univer-sity of Chicago Press.J.B.
Lowe, C.E Baker, and C.J.
Filhnore.
1997.
Afnnne-semantic approach to semantic annotation.Ill Proceedings 1997 Siglex WorksholJ/ANLP97,Washington, I).C.I.
A. Mel'cuk.
1988.
Semantic description of lex-ical units ill an explanatory combinatorial dic-tionary: Basic plilmiples and heuristic criteria.International ,lournal of Lexicography, I:3:165-188.M.
Moens and M. Steedman.
1988.
Telnporal on-tology and tenlporal refel'ence.
ComputationalLinguistics, 14:15-38.Martha l~allnel ", Joseph Rosenzweig, and WillialnSchuler.
1998.
Capturing Motion Verb General-izations in Sylmhronous TAG.
Ill Patrick Saint-l)izim, editol, Predicative Forms in Natural Lan-guage and in Lexical Knowledge Bases.
KluwerPress.James Pustejovsky.
1995.
The Generative Lexicon.MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.Yves Sehabes.
1990.
Mathematical nd Computa-tional Aspects of Lexicalized Grammars.
Ph.D.thesis, Compnter Science Department, Universityof Pennsylvania.Matthew Stone and Christine Doran.
1997.
Sell-tence Plalming as l)escription using Tree Adjoin-ing Grammar.
Ill Proceedings of ACL-EACL '97,Madrid, Spain.Clare Voss.
1996. lnlerlinxua-l)ased Machine7'ranslation o\[" &~atial Expressions.
PI'LD.
the-sis, University of Maryland, Depamnent of Com-puter Science.Fei Xia, Martha Pahnei, and K. Vijay-Shanker.1999.
Toward senli-autolnating grannnardevelopment.
Ill Proceedings of the 51hNatural Language Proces'sing Pacific Rim3),mposium(NLPRS-99), Beijing, China.1015
