Unscrambl ing  Engl ish word orderAllan Ramsay L: Helen SevilleCentre for Computational LinguisticsUMIST, PO Box 88, Manchester M60 1QD, Englandallan/he:teng@cc:t, umist, ac.
ukAbstractWe propose a treatment of 'extraposition' whichallows items to be assimilated irectly even whenthey at)pear far from their canonical positions.
Thistreatnmnt supports analyses of a number of phenom-ena which are otherwise hard to describe.
The ap-1)roach requires a generalisation of standard charti)arsing techniques.1 Extraposition in EnglishIt is widely accei)ted that sentences such as1 I saw the girl wh, o your tnvther said h,e fancied.2 The soup was OK, but th, e main course I th, oughtwas awful.involvc items ('who', 'the mai'a, eoursc') being foundfar away from their normal i)ositions (as the com-plement of 'fancied' and the subject of 'was a@d' ) .It seems likely that; the modifiers 'in the parle' and"with, all my heart' in3 l>n the park I met Arthur.4 I bclievcd with, all my heart th, at sh, c loved me.arc also 'out of position', since you would normallyexpect VP-modi(ying PPs of this kind to appear im-mediately to the right of the modified VP (so thatthe canonical versions of these sentences would havebeen '1 met Arthur in the park' and 'I believed thatsite loved me with all my heart.').
There arc vari-ous reasons for moving things around in this way-moving 'who' to the left; in (1) provides an easy wayof l)icking out the boundary of the relative clause;moving 'the main course' and 'in the park' in (2)and (3) puts them into tlmmatically/informationallymore prominent positions; and moving the senten-tial complement 'that she lovcd me'  to the right in(4) reduces the attachment ambiguity that arises inthe alternative form.This is all well-known, and is treated in mostgrammatical frameworks by hallucinating an item inthe canonical position, and then rememl)ering thathalhlcination uI) to (;tie 1)oint at which the out-of-place item is encountered.
Exactly how the halhlci-nation is remelnbered varies fron~ one framework toanother, with Ulfification grammars generally carry-ing intbrmation about it on a category-valued fea-ture (usually called slash,).
The main problem withthis al)l)roach is that it is difficult to control the sit-uations in which 'traces' of this kind get proposed.
(Johnson and Kay, 1994) suggest using ~sponsors' inorder to license the introduction of traces, where ast)onsor is some item of the required kind that hasalready 1)een found, and which is hence potentiallygoing to cancel with the trace.If your parser works ti'om le f t , r ight  then thiswill work for items which have been left-shifted, butclearly it cmmot work for right-shifted items, sincethe sI)onsor will not have t)een found at the timewhen it is needed.
Thus we cannot use a sI)onsor tojustify hallucinatillg an S-comp ti)r 'believed' in (4),or for the heavy-NP-shifts in5 He6 Iteh, ouse.gave up his job.built on that .spot th, e most appallingly uglyIn any casc, the notion that some item has beenleft- or right-shifted fails to account for cases of 'in-traposition':7 I bclievc Betty is a fool.8 Betty, I belicvc, is a fool.9 Betty is, I believe, a fool.It is at least 1)lausible that (8) and (9) are variantsoil (7).
They're made out of the same words, theyhave the same truth conditions: the only trouble isthat part of the sentence seems to be in the wrongt)laee.This is analogous to the situation in (2) and (3),where items were moved to the fi'ont to make themmore prominent.
It seems as though in (;tie currentcase the words 'I believe' have been shifted into themiddle, and 1)arcnthesised, to nmke them less promi-nent.
We will show how to deal with this by adal)ting66313 Charles danced with Eliza, but Diana he kissed.mid when we say that tim PP that results from satu-rating 'on' modifies a VP to its left we are referringto cases like (12), not to14 On the mat the cat sat.
(or even 'On the mat sat the cat.
', where tile expec-tation that the subject will appear to the left of theverb has also been violated.
)It seems as though we need the standard FRCP tocope with the canonical cases; the weakened FRCP'to cope with cases where the phrase occurs in someunexpected position; and something else to constrainthe unexpected positions which are actually possible.Tile constraints on what can be moved aroundtake two tbrnls.
Firstly, we have say whether some-thing can be nloved at all, which we do by intro-ducing a polar-valued feature called moved: itemswhich appear away from their canonical positionsare marked moved(rioht) or moved(left), depend-ing on the direction in which they have been shifted.Arguments and targets which aren't allowed to movewill be marked -moved by tile item that subcate-gorises for them.Secondly, we have to specify where those itemsthat can move are allowed to get to.
We do thisby using linear precedence rules (LP-rules), most ofwhich place constraints on immediate local subtrees.Thus we can say things like{A, B, C} : +wh@A&-wh.
@B-+ start@A < start@Bto capture tile fact that if A and B are local subtreesof C, then if A is WH-marked and B is not thenA must precede B (A's start must be before B's).Note that the signature of the rule mentions C, eventhough in this case the body does not.The facts about extraposition are captured byrules which specify the circumstances under which alocal subtree can (or must)be +moved.
Tile key con-straints for trees representing structures with verbalheads are as follow:{ A, B, C} : -wh@A& -aux@C&A = snbject@C- moved@A(if A is the subject of C, where A is not WH-markedand C is not mi auxiliary, then A may not be moved){A, B, C} : movcd@A = right~X(X  E dtrs@C& start@core@C < start@X)start@X < start(~A)(if A has been right-shifted, then C had better havesome other daughter X between C's head and A.Tile flfll rule says that C must be heavier than X,where we take 'C is heavier than X'  to mean that Ccovers more words than X, so that tlfis rule covers(4), (5) and (6)).There are a nmnber of other such rules, of which themost complex relates to 'ttmt'-clauses (denoted by-~cornp).
The description of such clauses comes intwo parts, one to say that -~vh phrases may not beextracted and one to say that +wh phrases must beextracted.
(i) {A, B, C} :C C clause& +comp@C & +compact@C---} - wh@B(ii) {A, B, C} : C C clause& +cornp@C & -compact@C--~ + wh@BThe first part of this says that if combining A andB produces a 'that'-clause C, then if C is +compact(so nothing has been extracted from it) then it, hadbetter be -wh  (in other words, nothing properlyinside it can be +wh).
If on tile other hand C is-compact hen there must be solnething extractedfrom it, in which case the item which has been ex-tracted must mark it as +wh,.
These rules cover the(un)aeceptability of15 I know that she loves me.16 ~ I know me that she loves.17 who I know that sh, e loves.18 * I know that who she loves.5 I n t rapos i t ionThe rules in Section 4 provide a reasonable accountof simple extraposition (both left and right) fromclauses.
We now return to7 I believe Betty is a fool.8 Betty, I believe, is a fool.9 Betty is, I believe, a fool.Suppose we use FRCP' ,  with no LP-rules, to analyse(8).
We will get, mnong other things, the phrasesand part phrases shown in Fig.
1 (tile commas aretreated as lexical items, so that 'Betty' starts at 0,the first comma at 1, and 'I' at 2, and so on).The first couple of steps are straightforward: 'afool' results fl'om combining 'a' and 'fool'.
It; has noholes in it, its extreme start and end are the stone asits compact start and end.
Then 'is a fool' resultsfroin combining 'is' and 'a fool', and again all thepieces are in the right place, so the extreme startand end are the santo as the compact start and endand the phrase is +compact.At step 3, 'Betty' is integrated as the subject of'is a fool'.
The result starts at 0, since that's where666l)hrase start end xstart xend1 a fool 6 8 6 82 is n tbol 5 8 5 83 Betty is a. fool 5 8 0 84 believe Betty is a fool 3 4 0 85 I 1)elieve Betty is a %ol 2 4 0 86 ,I believe Betty is a tbol 0 4 0 87 ,I believe Betty is a fool, 0 8 0 8Figure 1: Analysis of (8)(:Oral)act+++'Betty' starts, and is -compact ,  since it does notinclude all the intervening words.At 4 this -compact  sentence l)ecomes the com-plement of 'believe'.
The result is again -compact ,since it fails to include the word q'  or the two com-mas which at)pear 1)etween its start and end l)oints.The compact core is now the word 'believe', so thecomi)act start and en(t are 3 and d..At; 5, the VP 'believe Betty is a fool' combineswith 'I' to produce 'I believe Betty is a fool'.
Thetwo commas then combine with this phrase, mark-ing it as being parenthe.tieal nd, when the secondcomma is included, finally marking it as +compact.Similar structures would be created during thet)rocessing of (9), with the only difl'erence l)eing that'is a fool' would 1)e the first -corn, pact phrase found.Apart fl:om that the analysis of (9) would tm identi-cal to the analysis of (8).
'i~hcre m'e two problems with this ai)l)roa(:h to sen-Ix'ames of this kind: (i) 1)ecause we obtain identicalsyntact i c  ana lyses  o f  (7),  (8) mid  (9),  then  any  (:Oln-t)ositional semantics will assign all three the sameinterpretation.
This is not entirely wrong: I cannotfairly say a.ny of these sentences unless I do believethat Betty is a tbol.
But it is also clearly not entirelyright, since it misses the diflbrence in emi)hasis.
Wewill not discuss this any further here.
(ii) be(:mlse weare not applying the LP-rules, we get rather a largenumber of mmlyses.
Without LP-rules, we gel; a sin-gle analysis of '1 believe Bctty is a fool', having con-structed 23 t)artial and complete, edges.
1,br 'Betty,I believe, is a fool' we get three analyses (includingthe correct one) having constructed 1.01 edges.
Mostof t, hese m'ise fl'om the t)resence of the commas, sincewe have to allow for the possibility that each of these(:ommas is either an ot)ening or closing l)racket, or aconjmmtion in a comma-sei)arated list of co l t iunets .Others arise fl'om the fact that we have removedall the LP-rules, so that we are treating English ashaving completely Dee word order.
Case markingstill provides ome constraints on what can combinewith what, so that in the current case 'I' is the onlypossible sul)ject for 'believe' and 'Betty' is the onlypossible subject for 'is'.
If we had been dealing with19 Betty, Fred believes, is a foolthen we would have had six analyses froln 107 edges,with the new ones arising because we had assigne(1~Fred' as the subject of %" and 'Betty' as the sul)-jec~ of 'believes'.Clearly we need to reinstate the general LP-rule.%whilst allowing for the cases we are interested in.These cases are characterised in two ways: (i) someword that requires a sentence has oc(-urre(1 in ~ con-text where a :st)lit' sentence is available, and (ii) thisword  is ad jaee i l t  to  a 1 )arenthet i ca l  comlna .
Thestatement of this rule is rather long-winded, but theresult is to provide a single analysis of (8) from 66edges, and a single analysis of (9) from 70 edges.6 ~more X than Y'Most (:ases of extral)osition in English involve sen-tences, lint there are a numl)er of other 1)henomenawhere items seem to have 1)een shifted around.
Con-sider for instance the following examples:20 Geo~ye ate more than six peaches.21 Harriet ate more peaches than pears.22 \[a'n, ate more pcaehcs than ,\]ulia.n.In (20), "more' than si:r' looks like a complex deter-miner.
How many peaches did George eat?
Morethan six.
The easiest way to analyse this is byassmning theft 'more' subcategoriscs for a ' than-phrase'.In (21) and (22), however, the than-phrase seemsto have become di@)inted.
It still seems as though'more.'
heads a complex determiner, since (22) wouldsupport the answer 'more than Julian' to the ques-tion 'How many peachcs did Ian cat?'
aWe therefore introduce lexical entries tbr 'more'and 'tha'n' which look roughly as follows:athough (21) does not seem to support  ~morc than pears'as an mmwer to 'How many peaches did Harriet cal'?'.
Theproblem seems l;o be that NP complements  o 'than' are actu-ally elliptical (see below), and it seems to be harder to recoverthe elllpsed sentence 'More than she ate pears' than to recover~More than Julian ate peaches' or era, ore than Julian ate'.667sign/ n?m?
?,' / fl J J /sy'l / L J i l l  Lfoo Iwh< JMsubcat / \ [ in  \[phon ' than ' \ ] l \  IIsemantics.
.
.signphon 'than'I onfootsyn \[ \ [ .
.
.\[foot\[wit <>\]subcat (X}semantics.
.
.The entry for 'more' says that it will make a specifierif it finds a satmated phrase headed by 'than'.
Theentry for 'than' says that it will make a phrase ofthe required type so long as it finds sonm argumentX.
We know very little about X.
In (20) it is anumber, in (21) and (22) it appears to be an NP.
Infact, as (Puhnan, 1987) has shown, the best way totlfink about these examples is by regarding them aselliptical fbr the sentences23 Harriet ate more peaches than site ate pears.24 1an ate more peaches than Julian ate peach, es.Other kinds of elliptical phrase are permitted, as in25 Keith ate more peaches than Lucy did.or  even26 Martha ate more ripe titan unripe pcach, es.
4We theretbre allow arbitrary phrases as tile argu-ment to 'than'.
All we need now are the LP-rulesdescribing when arguments of 'than' should be ex-traposed.
These simply say that if you are combin-ing the determiner 'more' with a 'than'-phrase, thenif the sole daughter of the 'than'-phrase is a nmnberthen it must not be shifted, and if it is not then itmust be right-shifted.
(i) {d, B, C} : A E det&phon@A = 'more'& cat@B = than& dtrs@B = <D>& (DEnnmorDead j )4Note that  in this case the argument  of ' than'  is not  dis-placed.--> - moved@ B(ii) {A, B, C} :A  E det&phon@A = 'more'cat?
}B = than& not(dtrs@B = <D>& (D < .
:am or D < adj))--~ moved@B = rightWith these LP-rules, we get approl)riate structuralanalyses for (20) (25).
We do not, however, cur-rently have a treatment of ellipsis.
We thereforecannot provide sensible semantic analyses of (21)and (22), since we cannot determine what sentences'peaches' and 'Julian' are elliptical for (imagine, forinstance, trying to decide whether 'Eagles eat morespar~vws than crows' meant 'Eagles eat more spar-rvws than crows cats sparrows' or 'Eagles eat moresparrows than eagles eat crows').If the structure of 'more peaches th, an pears' in-volves a displaced 'than'-phrase, then it seems veryplausible that the stone is true for27 Nick wrote a more elegant program th, an Olive.28 Peter wrote a more elegant prvgram th, an th, at.This is given further supt)ort by the acceptability ofexamples like29 A progrum more elegant han that would be hardto find.where tile 'than'-I)hrase is adjacent o the modifiedadjective 'elegant' rather than to the noun 'program'which is modified by the whole phrase 'more elegantthan that'.Frustratingly, it just does not seem possible toreuse the lexical entry above for 'more' to cope withthese cases.
In (20) (25), 'more' made a deternfinerwhen supplied with an apl)ropriate 'than'-phrase.For (27)-(29) it needs to make somettfing whicll willcombine with an adjective/adverb to produce an in-tensified version of the original.
We therefore needtile tbllowing entry:) l ion ~more  ~subcat sign < > J|semantics.
.
.668This needs a 'than'-phrase to saturate it, and once itis saturated it will combine with an adj (adjective ora(tverb) to nmke a new adj.
There are two questionsto be answered: should such a complex adj attpear tothe left; or right of its target, and should the 'than'-phrase be extraposed or not?
(28) and (29) show that these questions are in-timately connected.
If the 'than'-phrase is right-shifted, then the resulting modifier aptmars to theleft of its target (28); if it is not, then the moditierappears to the right (29).
This is exactly what is pre-dicte(1 by (Willimns, 1981)'s suggestion that head-final moditiers generally appear to the left of theirtargets ( 'a quietly sleeping man') whereas non-head-final ones apt)ear to the right ( 'a 'llt(t'lt sleeping qui-etly').
All we need to do is to make right-shifting ofthe 'than'-l)hrase optional, and to invoke Williams'rule., using the coral)act core of the modifier.
Thusthe compact modifier 'more elegant h, an thai,' fl'om(2{I) is not head final, since the whole thing is cora-l)act but the head, 'elwant' , is i1ot; the last word; thenon-colnt)aet one 'move ch;gant .. .
than that' from(28) is head final, since this time 'elegant' is thelast, word in the (:ompact core 'more elwant'.
Hetme'more clegant h, an that' tbllows its targe, t a.nd 'moreclwant .
.
.
than th, at' precedes it.
No new LP-rulesare required, and 110 challg(}s 1;(1 th(} gellel:al rllle forlocating moditiers are required.7 Conc lus ions\?e have shown how retrieving disl)laeed items di-rectly, rather than t)ositing a trace of some kindand then eancellillg it against an appriate itelnwhen one turns up, can I)rovide treatlllellts of left-and right-extraposition which display the advan-tages that (Johnson and Kay, 1994) obtain for left-extraposition.
This approach to extraposition canbe extended to deal with 'intraposition' and to caseswhere items have been extracted ti'om non-clausalitems.
In order to avoid overgeneration, we neededto introduce a set of LP-rules which are appliedas phrases are constructed in order to ensure, thatitems have not been shifted to unacceptable posi-tions.
The extra computation required for checkingthe LP-rules has no effect on l;he comI)lexity of theparsing process, since they simply add a constant(and t~irly small) extra set of steps each time a newedge is proposed.
As a rough tmrformance guide, thegralnInar generates five analyses for30 Ite built on that site a more unattractive housethan the eric which he built in Greenwich.on the basis of 237 edges (the different global anal-yses m'ise from the attachment ambiguities for thewn:ious modifiers), and takes 4.1 seconds to <1o so(compiled Sicstus on a Pentiunl 350).
This sentencecontains a right-shifted NP, which itself contains a'more ... than ...' construction and also a relativeclause with a left-shifted WII-pronoun, and hencecould be expected to cause problems for al)l)roachesusing si)onsors , while8 Betty, I believe, is a fool.takes 0.27 seconds.
Tit('.
worst case comple?ityanalysis for this kind of approach is fairly awflfl(O(l y) X 22(N-I)) where 1 ~ is the number of unsatu-rated edges in the initial chart and N is the lengthof the sentence (Ramsay, in press)).
In practice theLP-rules provide sufficient constraints on the gener-ation of non-coral)act phrases for pertbrmalme to begenerally acceptable on sentences of about twentywords.Re ferencesM Johnson and M Kay.
1994.
Parsing and emptynodes.
Computational Linguistics, 20(2):289 300.R M Kal)lan.
1973.
A general syntactic processor.In R.. Rustin, editor, Natural language proeessin.q,pages 193 241, New York.
Algorithmics Press.M Kay.
1973.
The MINI) system.
In R. Rustin,editor, Naturnl Language Processing, pages 155188, New York.
Algorithmics Press.C J Pollard and I A Sag.
1988.
An I'nfovmationBased Approach to Syntax and Semantics: Vol1 Fundamentals.
CSLI lecture notes 113, ChicagoUniversity Press, Chi(:ago.C J l?ollard and I A Sag.
1994.
Head-driven Ph~nscStr'uct'nre G~nmmar.
(~hi(',ago University Press,Chicago.S G l 'uhnan.
1987. l~vents and VP-modifiers.
inB.G.T.
Lowden, editor, Proceedings of the AlvcySponsored Workshop On Formal Semantics inNatural Languagc P'roecssiug, Colchester.
Univer-sity of Essex.A M Ramsay.
in press.
Parsing with discontinuousphrases.
Nat'mnl Language Engincering.I A Sag and T Wasow.
1999.
Syntactic theory: aformal introduction.
CSLI, Stratford, Ca.E Williams.
1981.
On the notions 'lexically related'att(t 'head of a word'.
Ling'uistic Inquiry, 12:254274.M M Wood.
1993.
Categorial Grammars.
Rout-ledge, London.669
