The Week at a Glance -Cross-language Cross-documentInformation Extraction and TranslationJim Cowie, Yevgeny Ludovik, Hugo Molina-Salgado, and Sergei NirenburgComl)uting Research LaboratoryNew Mexico State UniversityLas Cruces, New Mexico{\]cowie, eugene, hsalgado, sergei} @crl.nmsu.eduAbstractWork oll tile production of texts in Englishdescribing instances of a particular event typefrom multiple news sources will be described.
Asystem has been developed which extractsevents , such as meetings, fi-om texts hi English,P, ussian, Spanish, and Japanese.
The extractionis currently carried out using only ontologicalinformation.
Tile results of a set of suchextractions were combined to produce a table ofevent instances, date stamped, with links back tothe original documents.
The original documentscan then be summarized and translated by thesystem on demand.By using techniques flom information retrieval,information extraction, summarization, andmachine translation, in a multi-lingualcnvironl-nent, new documents can be producedwhich provide "at a ghmce" access to news ellevents fron3 multiple sources.The paper concludes with a discussion of thekey resources which need to be developed toenhance tile accuracy and coverage of thetechniques used in our experiment.1 Introduct ionMulti-lingual inlormation extraction (MUC6),:mmmarization (AAAI 98), and cross-hmguageiiHormation retrieval (tlarntan, 1995) have overtile past three or four years become emergingtechnologies which are being driven in part bytile developn\]ent of tile WWW, iuld also by thegeneral availability of machine readable texts inmany languages.
It appeared to the authors thatan interesting application could be built whichdemonstrated an integrated use of thesetechnologies in combination with a variety ofmachine translation techniques.The system we describe here has as its centralcomponent a multi-lingual informationextraction engine, which uses an ontology as itsmain controlling element.Extraction based summarization producessummaries, either in tabular form, or bygenerating sentences using structuredinformation derived flom texts.
Sumnmries ofthis type are fl)cused on whatever events, theunderlying extraction system handles.
Thesummaries are inli)rmative in nature.
Thai isthey provide specific facts which may allow auser to gain sufficient in|ormation withoutreference to tile original documents.
Thepotential applications are: producing personalprofiles, assuming a series of documents on anindividual are awfilable over time; trackingcomplex events, assuming a script is availablewhich describes the event in terms of simplerevents; and monitoring re, single event types ina data stream.
This is tile application we foctlson in this paper.The method is partictdarly pronlising lor textsin multiple hmguages its tile structuredinformation produced by infl)rmation extractionis relatively easy to translate.
The principledrawback is that an information extractionsystem of this kind needs st.oh expensiveresources its ontology (one for all languages) andotological lexicons (one per language).
Thedevelopment of tile system itself is notexpensive, il we can get these resources.1007The extraction method described here is basedon tile Mikrokosmos ontology (Mahesh, 1995),and uses the concepts in the ontology both todefine an extraction template and to control theextraction process.
At present the onlyinfornlation used fl'om tile Mikrokosnloslexicons, which supply language specificsemantic and syntactic subcategorizationinformation, is the mapping flom a citation formto an ontological concept.The complete system is composed of many pre-existing components and has been tested usingtwo weeks of news from English, Spanish,Russian, and Japanese newspapers.
We first givean overview of the steps used to generate anevent based cross-document summary.2 Overv iew of  ProcessingThe system uses a set of pre-existing modules.These are: automatic language/codesetrecognition for a text (Ludovik et al, 1999),sentence based summarization (biased towardsdomain keywords) (Cowie et al., 1998), part ofspeech tagging, noun phrase recognition, propername recognition and classification (Cowie et al1993; Cow}e, 1996), ontology based extraction,translation of the final filled template to English,and output generation.
Additional document andtemplate filters have been added at tile fi'ont andback ends of the system to reduce the amount oftext to be processed and to remove templateswhich are only sparsely filled.For example, when a text is gathered in Spanishby the web spider it will be checked to see ifany of the person names of interest occur in thedocument using a list of names in Spanish.
Ifthis is the case the document is then part-of-speech tagged and noun phrases and propernames are recognized.
In the present systemproper names are handled using a table lookupprocess, rather than a more complex (andaccurate) pattern based method.
The ontologybased extraction fills out tile slots to produce acompleted template.
This is then translated bylooking tip words in the lexicon and bytransliterating, or translating, proper names.
Thecompleted template is then stored withreferences to the original document.A set of templates are then used to produce oneof a variety of reports either for all events or fora single event type.
These can be sorted on thedifferent slots in tile template.
A table is thenproduced using HTML containing links to eachoriginal docunaent, o document summarizationand translation tools, and the slot fillers fromeach template.In tile rest of this paper we focus ol l  theconfigurable xtraction method, tile preliminarytests caMed out on the system, and we closewith a discussion oll tile improvements toresources and tools needed to make this a robustand useful technology.3 ExtractionThe three events used in the present system are"election", "travel", and "meeting".
For each ofthese a template was defined containing slotswhose content would seem likely to occtu innewspaper articles.
Each of these slots was thenmapped to one or more ontology concepts toproduce a "control template".
The three eventsare currently defined as follows:ELECTION{"ELECT", "ELECT"}{ "PERSON-ELECTED", "NAME-HUMAN"}{"PLACE", "NAME-PLACE"}{"DATE", "TIME"}{ "POSITION-ELECTED TO","SOCIAL-ROLE"}TRAVEL{ "TRAVEL", "TRAVEL-EVENT"}{ "PERSON-TRAVELLING", "NAME-HUMAN"}{"ROLE", "SOCIAL-ROLE"}{"TO-PLACE", "NAME-PI.ACE" }{"DATE", "TIME"}MEETING"MEETING", "MEETING"}"PERSON 1", "NAME-HUMAN" }"PERSON 1", "NAME-HUMAN"}"PERSON3", "NAME-HUMAN" }"ROLE 1", "SOCIAL-ROLE"}"ROLE2", "SOCIAL-ROLE"};'"ROLEY', "SOCIAI,-ROLE"}"PLACE".
"NAME-PLACE"}"DATE", "TIME"}The left hand label defines the nalne/,ole of theslot, tile right hand defines one.
or more,ontological concepts which should be found forany phrase in the text which is a potential fillerfor tile slot.
The method of tOtal)late definition iscompletely generic, and should allow a user with1008a reasonable knowledge of tile ontology torapidly configure an extraction system for newsimple event types.To perform an extraction, after the phraserecognition step, each headword in a sentence islooked up in tile lexicon and its associatedconcepts found.
Each lexicon entry is thenmatched with the concepts in tile controltemplate slots.
A lnatch may also be found usingancestors of the concept found in tile lexiconentry.
Thus for the lexicon entry "Bishop", inEnglish, the attached concept is "RELIGIOUS-ROLE", which is a kind of "SOCIAL-ROLE".Tile combination of lexical entries which has thehighest match, and which contains the keyconcept for the event is chosen and a completedextraction template is produced.Lexical subcategorization patterns, which willalso help increase the accuracy of this selectionprocess, have not been used yet.The ontological lexicons for Japanese andRussian were created by joining a bi-lingualSource language to English lexicon with anEnglish to ontology lexicon.
This process adds asignificant amount of artificial ambiguity to thefinal source language to ontology lexicon.Using correctly created lexicons for eachlanguage and syntactic knowledge for eachlexical entry would allow the extraction processto operate more accurately.Lexical E.try Exampleelect elect V LG-np\[PROPEI{TY-NAME agent\]-V-np\[PROPERTY-NAME beneficiary\]-pp_adjunct\[ PROPERTY-NAME inverse-social-role-relation CONSTRAINT social-object PREPtelOntology Entry Example(MAKE-FRAME ELECT (IS-A (VALUE(COMMON VOTE)))(1)EFINITION(VALUE (COMMON "to select for an officeby voting")))(BENEFICIAR.Y (SEM (COMMONHUMAN)))(INSTRUMENT (SEM (COMMONBALLOT-BOX))))Two Examples of ExtractionThe following examples are both produced bytile extraction method operating on bracketedtexts produced by part-of speech tagging andphrase recognition.On Thursday  Apr i l  16, C l in ton  beganh is  two day  s ta te  v i s i t  inSant iago ,  Ch i le  to meet  w i thCh i lean  Pres ident ,  Eduardo  Frei,and  then onto  the Sur@nit of theAmer icas .S lo t=MEETING ; F i l l e r  = meetS lo t -PERSON1 ; F i l l e r  = C l in tonS lo t=PERSON2;  F i l l e r  = Eduardo  Fre iS lo t=ROLE1 : EMPTYS lo t :ROLE2;F i l l e r=Ch i lean  Pres identS lo t=PLACE ; F i l l e r  = Sant iagoS lo t -DATE ;F i l l e r=Thursday  Apr i l  161-Ipe,'3Ja,I~eHT BopHc EJlblkHH Bc'rpeTHolc>~ cI-\[petBla~eH'l'OM CIIIA KYlFIHTOtfOM 19 HO~t6p~41987 I'.
U MocKue.SI,OT = MEETING ; filler = ~c'rpe'rxa~c~iSLOT = PERSON1 ; filler = IBopm' g~bl l ,  IJnSI,OT = PERSON2 => EMPTYSI.OT = ROLE1 ; l\]ller = FIpeaHy~eH'rSLOT = ROLE2 ; filler = l - Ipe~eH'rOMSLOT = PLACE ; filler = MocKt~eSI,OT = DATE ; filler = 19 no~.ldp~.119874 TestingTwo weeks of news stories were gathered fromtwo newspapers in each of our four languages:English, Spanish, Russian, and Japanese.
Wethen filtered this docmnent collection and keptonly those doculnents which mentioned specificsurnames, for eighteen different people.
Thisentailed generating lists of these names in allfour languages, including moq)hologicalvariants for Russhm.
This was intended to focusthe extraction process to specific domains(business and politics principally).
Theextraction process was then run on the remainingset of documents and the resulting templatestranslated and used to generate the final tables ofevents.Many of the entries are inaccurate.
One of theprincipal causes is the lack of syntacticinformation to constrain the extraction process.Simple improvements could be made by addingconstraints based on appositions, prepositions,1009particles and morphology.
However, asignificant number of entries do contain usefulinformation and the ability to scan, in onelanguage, the output from eight sources in fourlanguages i  obviously a useful one.5 Prob lemsThere are many problems associated with asystem of this degree of complexity.
Many arerelated to the quality and coverage of theresources available for processing.
Techniques,for example, for proper name recognition andclassification are well known.
However, goodquality name recognition software is only freelyavailable at the present for English.
Usinggeneral web resources it is often difficult todiscover document creation dates, an importantpiece of information in a system of this type.Co-reference resolution is not handled in tiffssystem at present.
This is normally achieved incurrent information extraction systems byallowing merging of templates fiom adjacentsentences.The availability of large scale onomastica (bi-lingual lists of proper names) is also crucial tothe translation of extracted information.
Work iscurrently underway to develop these resourcesfor a variety of languages.The problem of reference in general is a moreinteresting one.
There are currently two BorisBerezovsky(s) appearing in the news.
One is apianist, the other the Russian politician.
Thequestion is, "How is it possible to let our enduser appreciate which person a reference isbeing made to?".
Perhaps some documentclassification system needs to be added to allowthe automatic detection of document topics,which could be used to provide additionalinformation in the interface, either for display orfor filtering.ConclusionThe current system demonstrates the feasibilityof a knowledge based approach to informationextraction.
It appears that it is possible togenerate meaningful documents flom multi-language sources, although the initial amount ofelTort required to get reasonable coverage androbust perlk)mmnce is significant, particularly inthe area of resource development.AcknowledgementsWe would like to acknowledge the contributionsof many colleagues at CRL.
We would also liketo thank MITRE and Kyoto University lbrallowing us to use their English and Japanesepart of speech taggers.ReferencesCowie, J., L. Guthrie~ T. Wakao, W. Jim J.Pustejovsky and S. Waterman (1993) TheDiderot Infornaation Extraction System.
InProceedings of the Filwt Cop!\['erence of thePacific Association for ComputationalLinguistics, (PA CLING 93).
Vancouver,Canada.Cowie, J.
(1996) CRL's approach to MET(Multilingual Named Entity Recognition).
InProceedings of the Tipster Text II 24 MonthWorkshop.
Morgan Kaufinan.Cowie, J., E. Ludovik and H. Molina-Salgado(1998) hnproving Robust DomainIndependent Summarization.
In Proceedingsof Natural Language Processing andIndustrial Applications.
Moncton, Canada.Harman, D.K., ed.
(1995) NIST SpecialPublication: The Fourth Text RetrievalConference (TREC-4), Systems Laboratory,NIST.Ludovik, Y., R. Zacharski and J. Cowie (1999)Language Recognition for Mono- and Multi-lingual Documents.
In Proceedings ofVEXTAL'99, Venice, Italy, pp.
209-214.Mahesh, K. and S. Nirenburg.
(1995) A SituatedOntology for Practical NLP.
In Proceedings q/'theWorkshop on Basic Ontological Issues inKnowledge Sharing, International Joint Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence.
Montreal, Canada.MUC6 (1995) Proceedings of the Sixth MessageUnder~'tanding Conference (MUC6) MorganKaufman.
San Mateo, Calilbrnia.1010
