Real iz ing Express ions of Doubt  in Col laborat ive Dia logue *Leah Schroeder  and Sandra  Carber ryComputer  and In format ion  SciencesUn ivers i ty  of De lawareNewark ,  DE  19716{schroede,  carber ry}@cis .ude l .eduAbst ractOne way to 1)egin a negotiation subdialogue is to ex-press doubt at a proposition.
However, expressionsof doubt occur in a variety of forms, each of whichconveys information about the nature of the doubtthat is important for the subsequent resolution ofthe conflict.
This paper presents our work on real-izing expressions of doubt appropriately in naturallanguage dialogues.1 IntroductionParticipants in a collaborative natural anguage di-alogue must develop mutual beliefs about what issaid, what is meant, and the implications for the taskat hand.
We may think of each utterance as a pro-posed change to the agents' common ground (Clark,1996).
Since autonomous agents enter the dialoguewith differing domain, world, and personal knowl-edge, it is inevitable that some beliefs conveyed byan utterance will not be accepted because they con-flict with existing beliefs of the agent.
However, itis also the case that these conflicting belief~ will notnecessarily result in rejection of the proposed beliefS,but in subdialogues to negotiate a modification thatis acceptable to both agents(Chu-Carroll and Car-berry, 1995).
One w~y to begin such a subdialogucis to express doubt ~t the beliefs proposed by anutterance.
In the following example, the boldfaceutterance is expressing doubt at the previous utter-ance 1 (Transcripts, 1982)2:H: and - there's no reason  why you shouldn't havcan ira for last yrJ: well i thought they just s tar ted  this yr* This work was supported by NSF grant ~GER-9354869and #CDA-97030881Throughout his paper I use the phrase "doubt at anutterance" in place of "doubt at a proposition conveyed orimplied by an utterance."
I do not mean the utterance itselfis somehow doubted, but that the utterance introduced theobject of doubt into the dialogue.
It may be the case that theagent is doubting a proposition expressed in the uttermme, ordoubting the optimality of, or ability to execute, an actionsuggested in the utterance.2All of the examples in this paper, except where otherwisenoted, are from this source.H: oh no .
ira's were available as long as you arenot a participant in an czisting pensionAn e?pression of doubt is an utterance that con-veys uncertain disbelief in a proposition that wasintroduced in an earlier utterance.
An expression ofdoubt signals that the speaker does not accept theutterance at which she is expressing doubt, but sheis neither expressing a "neutral" attitude toward itnor rejecting it with certainty 3.
In the above e?am-ple, J cammt be said to be rejecting the proposaloutright, because her response indicates that she isuncertain in her disbelief.A natural language system must be able to ex-press doubt, particularly in cases where it; has in-complete or uncertain knowledge.
Exmnination ofnatural anguage corpora shows that expressions ofdoubt may be realized in a variety of forms.
Further-more, the fbrm of the utterance conveys informationabout the nature of the doubt that is important brthe subsequent resolution of the conflict.
Thus acollaborative natural anguage system must be ableto generate utterances that convey doubt naturallyand effectively.
This paper presents our work on re-alizing expressions of doubt appropriately in naturallanguage dialogues.2 Prev ious  WorkIn Chu-Carroll and Carberry (1998) the collabo-rative planning process is modeled as a Propose-Evaluate-Modify cycle, in which an agent is able todetect conflicts in belief and initiate collaborativenegotiation subdialogues to attempt o resolve theconflicts.
They use a modified version of Galliersbelief revision inechanisln(Galliers, 1992; Logan etal., 1994) to determine whether to accept a proposi-tion and in determining which conflicting beliefs touse to refute an utterance that is not accepted.
How-ever, their work does not address how an exi)ressionof doubt should be realized in a natural languageutterance.Vander Linden and Di Eugenio (Vander Lindenand Di Eugenio, 1996) studied negative imperatives3Absolute rejection may be expressed as doubt for the sakeof politeness.
We do not address that issue here.740in instructional texts.
They used machine learn-lug to correlate features of an action X's relation-ship to the reader in terms of attention, awareness,and safety, with whether it was realize(t as Don't X,Never X, or Take care not to X.
In our research, wedraw on their notion of identifying how features ofthe generation context correlate with how an utter-ance should be expressed.
However, our work differsDora theirs in that we must deal with an agent's be-lie?s motiw~ting his doubt and we consider a widerrange of variations in realization.3 Communicat ing  an  Express ion  o fDoubtWe assume appropriate mechmfisms for detectingconflict and determining when to engage in a sub-dialogue by expressing doul)t(Chu-Carroll and Car-berry, 1998), as well as an approi)riate belief revisionmechmfism, and in this paper concentrate on how anexpression of doubt should be realized as an utter-anee.
A cooperative agent should be as informativeas ne.eded, without expressing too much irreleva.ntintbnnation(Grice, 1975).
Thus, in formulating anexpression of doubt, we must consider how much thedoubted ageut needs to know in order to collaboratein resolving the doubt and how much we can ex-pect him to infer without being exl)lieitly told.
Inaddition, Clark (1.996) argues that particiI)ants indiscourse select; utterances that express their eom-muni(:ative intent efficiently, oft, ca in sentence flag-meats.
Since such efficiency of ezpression is the ex-pected natural form of discourse, a hearer is likelyto (terive unintended imt)lications from significantlyless economical realizations.Expressions of doubt, by our detinition, signalnonacceptance because of 'unccrl, ain disbelief.
Inorder for the doubted agent to attemt)t o collab-orate in resolving the doubt, he needs to know sev-eral things.
Most basically, he nee(is to recognizethat there is doubt in a particular utterance.
Inthe absence of an objection to an utterance, thespeaker will assmne an implicit acceptance(Lmnbertand Carberry, 1999).
To efficiently negotiate anacceptable resolution to the belief conflict, ideallythe doubted agent must know something about the1)ellen of the doubtiug agent; in particular, whichbelief(s) are causing her nonacceptance, and thestrength of these beliefS.
If the doubted agent de-cides to retain his original beliet:s, this informationhelps him to construct an argument hat will bemaximally effective and efficient in his attempt toconvince the doubting agent(Chu-Carroll and Car-berry, 1998).To i(lentifs~ how expressions of (loubt are realizedin naturally occurring dialogue and how tiles(; re-alizations convey the requisite beliet's, we analyzedfeatures of individual ext)ressions of doubt extractedfrom natural corpora, and correlated the variousforms of the utterances with the features of the un-derlying beliefs, t{owever, as explained ill Section3.3, the use of machine learning techniques was notapt)ropriate due to the nature of our corpus.
Sec-tion 3.1 discusses features of underlying beliefs andSection 3.2 discusses the various forms that an ex-pression of doubt can take.
Section 3.3 then presentsit set of rules that relate the two.3.1 Bel ie f  featuresAs noted above, beliefs play a prominent role inexpressions of doubt, since a speaker will ideallyconvey enough intbrmation tbr the hearer to dis-eern 1) that she is expressing doubt, 2) what she isdoubting, 3) any support she has tbr the doubt, and4) the strength of this supi)ort.
In addition, speak-ers tend to differentiate new SUl)porting int'ornla-lion from that which is already part of the COlIlliIOUground aud which should already have been consid-ered.
These beliefs are often IIot explicitly stated,but are assumed to be inferable by the doubted agentbased on his knowledge of the previous dialogue,knowledge of the other agent's belieN, a model ofstereotypical beliefs, linguistic knowledge, and theparticular ealization of the doubting agent's utter-alice.For example, consider the following assertion andtwo possible responses, each expressing doubt at;the prot)osition P, to~,a that John Smith gets $800a month fl'om Social Seeurityd:S: ,loh, n Smith, (lets $800 a month in Social Security.1) U: Isn't h,e less th, an 62 yem's old?2) U: $800'?In 1) U relies on illutua,1 donmin knowh:dge to ex-press (hml)t at Pdo,,bt by contending some ()tilerpropos i t ion  Pi that implies -,P, to~,bt(Lamllert andCarberry, 1999), namely that Slnith is younger than62.
In the rest of this paper, P, to,,a refers to thedoubted proposition and Pi to a proposition otherthan Pao,,bt, if any, that is the reason for this doubt.In addition, expectations also play a role in ex-pressions of doubt.
In the simplest case, the violatedexpectation is just that I~to~,bt is fiflse.
In other sit-uations, an agent may have an expectation that aproposition will be false if instmltiated with someparticular subset of its possible instantiations.
Re-sponses that conflict with these expectations mayprovoke an expression of doubt, even though thedoubting agent may have little or no support forthe ext)ectation.
Such violated expectations are of-tel1 signaled by elliptical fragments, such as response2) above where U conveys not oIfly that she doesn't4This is not a naturally occurring example, but was madeup for exl)lanatory lmrposes.741accept Pdo~tbt, but also that her doubt steins fromtile instantiation of tile amount term as 8800.
Wehypothesize that U might accept a t)roposition witha different instantiation of tile amount term, lint Udoesn't explicitly state this, and other instantiationsmay be irrelevant.
A violated expectation will bereferred to as PC and is described further in Sec-tion 3.1.2.
When and how these expectations ariseis a topic for fllture research.We assume the t)ropositions Pao~,l,t, Pc, and Pi,as well as the fact that we want to express doubt,as inputs to our generation process.
Note that ev-ery expression of doubt will be associated with somePdoubt and solne Pc, since for every expression ofdoubt, there must be some doubted proposition andsome inconsistency between the doubting agent's ex-pectations and belief in Pdoubt.
There may or maynot be an associated Pi, depending on the doubt-ing agent's beliet~ supporting ~Pdo,,bt.
Lack of a Piindicates that tile agent's belief in ~P(to,tbt is unsup-ported ~.Based on the information that a speaker will ide-ally convey when expressing doubt (as discussed atthe beginning of this section), we hypothesize thatthe following aspects of a speaker's beliefs are sig-nificant factors in how an expression of doubt is re-alized.3.1.1 Features Assoc ia ted  w i th  P,,o,a,tEndorsement  of  Pdo,a,t: Refers to the authoritybehind the asserted proi)osition, which imi)acts thestrength of tlm hearer's doubt(Chu-Carroll and Car-berry, 1998)?
Expert - The information is coming from a do-main expert, or coming from someone with first-hand knowledge (including personal preferences).?
Reliable - The agent suggesting the propositionis not an expert, trot is considered a generally knowl-edgeable source.?
Questionable - hffbrmation thai; doesn't comefl'om an expert or reliable agent, or that is stateduncertainly by such an agent.3.1.2 Features Assoc ia ted  w i th  P,,Pc.
feature:  /2~ refers to a violated expectation.
Inthe following, we identify three kinds of expectationsthat may be violated by an assertion.
For illustra-tive purposes, assume that S has made the followingassertion:S: The most you will 9et back on your taxes is $~00.?
Term-value:Pe = False(-I~to,,bt, _term, _value)5AIthough human agents may generally be able to offersoine weak supt)orl, for their l)ellefs, it is possible, depend-ing on the belief revision system used, to have no support ingevidence for a belief (Logan et al, 1994).Tile doubting agent may fail to accept -P, lo,bt with_term instantiated to _value, due to an expectationthat _value is not one of tile instantiations of _termthat would make -Pdo,,~t true.
For example, thehearer of the above assertion by S may have ex-pected a much larger vahm than $400, with littleor no support for this expectation.?
Constraint:P~ = F alse(-P~toubt , _term, _value, _constraint)The doubting agent may fail to accept -\]~lo~,bt dueto an expectation that -Pdo,,~t will be false when_term is instantiated with _value, in situations inwhich _constraint holds.
This constraint is not aterm in -Pdo,,~t, lint tile doubting agent believes thatthe speaker of -l~zo,,~t intends that the constrainthold.
For example, the hearer of the above assertionby S may believe that S means $400 for the whole3,ear, but may have expected a larger amount unlessS was referring to, say, quarterly taxes.?
General:P~ = False(-P~lo,bt)The doubting agent may fail to accept l%~o,,~t in itsentirety without having a specific objection to anyparticular term in tile prol)osition.3.1.3 Features Assoc ia ted  with Pi ~Commona l i ty  of  Pi refers to tile source of thedoubting agent's conflicting belief, if any.?
Old - A prior conflicting belief is already i)art oftile explicit common ground of tile dialogue.?
New - The doubting agent doesn't believe, thather conflicting belief is already part of the commonground estat)lished t)y the preceding dialogue.Endorsement  of  Pi refers to the strength of evi-dence supporting the belief 1~ that is in eonfiiet withthe doubted belief.
The endorsements are listed herefrom strongest to weakest.?
First-hand - Belief is a personal t)reference orsometlfing directly experienced.?
Expert - Belief supported 1)y expert testimony,or thought o be common knowledge among expertsin tlfis domain.?
Reliable - Belief conmmnicated from someonewho, while not an expert, is generally considereda knowledgeable source of information.?
Default - Belief believed to be common knowl-edge, in tim sense that the speaker strongly believesit and strongly believes that others who belong toa certain community (namely one which she has incommon with the other dialogue agent) believe it aswell.awe make the simpl i fying assumpt ion that  only one suchproposition has been identified for use in an expression ofdoubt, as this is 1;he case in all of the expressions of doubtwe encountered in our corpus.
We leave consideration of ex-pressing mult iple l~ 's  in one utterance for fllture work.742?
Derived - Belief is (leriv('.d froln other 1)e.liefs insuch a way that  it is considered strong.?
I ly l )othesis - The 1)elief is derived fl'om other be-liefs in such a way that  it; is considered weak.
Thiscategory includes beliefs derived from analogy withanother belief in a similar 1)roposition.?
None - The belief is unsupported.Endorsement  o f  hnp l i ca t ion  ret>rs to thestrength of evidence SUl)l)Orl;ing the belief that  Pibeing true ilnl)lies thai; Pdo~,bt is not l;rue.
The en-dorsements are l isted from strongest o weakest.
Wcassume the salne definitions as the category aboveand that  the two lists lie on the same strengthscale.
That  is, a.n iml)l ication endorsed as rel iableis the same streng(;h as a P+ endorsed as rel iable andstronger t lmn a I} endorsed as hypothesis.
The onlyaddit ion to this list; is the Logical (,Jldorsement to ac-(:omd; for instance.s in which P,~,,,,a can I)e logicallydeduced from Pi.?
l ,ogieal - ~P,l<,,,bl dircc(,ly inferred from I}.?
F i rst-han( l  r?
ExI)ert?
Rel iableo l )efault?
l )erived?
l Iypothesis?
NOlle3.2 Form featuresExpressions of (lollbl; ()c(:ur in a variol;y of forlllS.
Wedis(Anguish l;holn actor( l ing to l;h0, surfa(:(~ form o17 l;h(~lll;1Ler~tllce~ tim t)l'eSc, n(:(~ of two clue wor(ls, and ~hesl)ecifi('ii;y of tim informal;ion conve, ye(1.Sur face  Form?
Surface Negative Question - " Isn't  that, onlyworth what  someone will I)ay ti)r it?"
This (;ai;(~goryalso includes negative tag (tuestions.?
Simple in ter rogat ive-  "Can I join the \[RA wheni am 657"?
S tatement  as Question - "I must tile a return?
"t n s category also in(:ludes ellit)ti(:al fragments u('has "$4007"?
Siml)le declarat ion - "I calculated 10."?
Prot)osit ion within a belief ('lause - "I thoughtthey only started this year.
"C lue  word?
Bill;?
Even ~hough7Tho, (lUO, stion of how l\[lllCh experience is lmedo, d to lO~tl'lla Imlief in ;m iml)lical,ion is I)eyond the scope of this 1)a,l)er.Spec i f i c i ty  - General forms of the expression (;all1)e more or less specific in ti le amount of intbrnmtionCOil\Toyed.?
Generic: Sentence that  is a general question ofthe previous utterance.h.
you .still -you have to file a state income taxreturn as wellj.
i do??
Repetit ion:  Rel)etit ion of a phrase from i)reviousutterance.h.
OK, what I 'd likc you to do is lend h, im the 20thousand.1.
20 thousand??
l /e i )et i t ion+ : l~,et)etitioil of t)hrase froln 1)reviousutterance t)lus new intbrmat ionh.
rigM,, the maz imum amount of credit that youwill b(', able to get will be $/~00 on their taz rot'ame.
$400 for the  who le  year??
Contradict;: Presentat ion of a 1)citer t, hat  iinl)li(!sthe negat ion of \])do,,bth.
and th, crc's no reason why you shouldn't havean ira for last yrj.
we l l  i thought  they  jus t  s ta r ted  th i s  yr?
Contra(l icl ;+Source: Pre, senta.tion of a (:ontra(lic-l,()ry lmlieJ' and th(' sour(',e of that  1)elief.h had told j he nlust t)ay tax on his $6256j.
ram.
h, arry another th, in.q.
i have  the  in terna luh  revenue uh  ask  you about  that  6256$ uh  s ince  i have  the  fund  he sa id  no!
,sowh, at do i do now??
Exp l ic i t+Contrad ic t :  ExI)licit s tatement  of dis-belief, followed by a contradictory  belief.b.
well ah, h,c uh, ... h,c belongs to a money mar-kct )t'nd now and uh, th, ey will do that \[investit in govt securities as part of thcir individualretirement accou'nt\] for himh.
i 'm not  so sure  o f  i t .
.
they  may move itah  in(;() a in to  a govt  secur i t ies  fund ,  1)uti 'm not  so sure  that  they  can  move it in toind iv idua l  secur i t ies  - check  that  out3.3 Rea l i z ing  an  Express ion  of  DoubtMany of the exi)ressions of doubt in our COlI)tlS arenon-ideal,  t)ecause they were not recognized as doul)tor because information that  was not included int, he utterance,  l int could have been, was u l t imatelyneeded to resolve the doul)t. Thus it was not al)l)ro-pr iate to use the corlms as training data  tbr machinelearning.
Consequently, ti le following rules are l)ased743and implication beliefs that would have caused tileform of expression of doubt to be generated.
We alsoencouraged subjects to write in beliet's which werenot inchlded, but none (lid.
Out of the 60 instances(ten expressions of doubt times six subjects), timsubjects five times chose beliefs that we did not rep-resent as contributing to the doubt and three timesfailed to recognize a belief that (lid contribute.The subjects also rated the beliefs according tostrength.
We evaluated these ratings to see if thecommunicated strengths were correlated with theendorsements of beliefs that would have generatedthis form.
Since subjects varied in the ranges thatI;hey used in rating the strengths of the beliefs, welooked at tile scores relative to each subjects ratingsof the other beliefs.Most of the strength ratings were consistent withthe rules.
The most fi'equent inconsistency was thecase in which we would have generated a form basedon slightly different endorsements for Pi and the in>plication, but our subjects rated them equivalentstrengths.
While it may be the case that tmotfledon't actually perceive a difli;renee, it may also bethe case that numerical ratings don't fully capturethe same information that t, he notion of endorse-ments do.The only significant inconsistency with our ruleswas one utterance ill which doubt was expressed by"1 thought that, but my husl)and, lie wasn't sure ifthat just uleant ss pension."
We had represented the,husband as a relial/le source an(l t;hus generated ill-formatioll about the, source of the conflicting proposit;ion.
In this instance, the doul)t was not judgedvery strong l)y our subje(:ts, and tlm agent's t)eli(~fin her husband's exl)ertise as relatively weak.
Infuture work, we will further explore exi)ression:s ofdoubt for which it is imi)ortant o (:omnmnicate thesom'(:e of inforlnation.\Ve consider this a l)reliminary (;valuation to showthat the rules we have l'ormulated thus fitr are re;>sortable, l?urther evahlation will tie neexle, d to pro-vide cvitlem:e that subjects really do draw &J.\[('rcntinferences based on the different forms of exl)ressionand that our rules accurately captnr(.
~ these ditti?r-eUCeS.5 Conc lus ion  and  Future  workThis pape.r has 1)resented rules that could be usedby a natural language system to realize exl)ressionsof doubt.
We have identified sew;ral forms that areused to express doubt ill naturally occurring dia-logues.
Our rules correlate these forms to 1)eliet~of the doul)ting agent, takiug into consideration thel)eliefs that must be conveyed tbr the utterance tobe a successflll exl)ression of doubt.Preliininary evaluation shows that the belief fea-ture values in our rules correspond to hmnan sul>jects' intuitions about tile strength of tile doubt.
Inaddition, the beliefs that would generate ach t:onnare consistent with the belief~ that the subjects at-trilmte to tile doubting agent when that form wasused.Future work will e(meentrate on refining the fea-tures and exploring more explicit reasoning abouttile beliefs of the other agent.
We also plan to ex-plore the role of intonation in realizing expressionsof doubt.Re ferencesJennifer Chu-Carroll and Sandra Carberry.
1995.Comnmnieation for conflict resolution iu multi-agent collaborative planning.
In Proceedings ofthe .Inter'national CoT@rcncc on Multi-Agent Sys-tems, pages 49 56.Jennifer Chu-.Carroll and Saudra Carberry.
1998.Collaborative response generation in planning di-alogues.
Computational Linguistics, 24(3):355400.Iterbert Clark.
1996.
Using Langua9('.
CambridgeUniversity Press.Julia.
Rose Galliers.
1992.
Autonomous belief revi-sion and communic.ation, in P. Gardenf'or.% esli-tor, Belief Revision, Cambridge tracts ill theoreti-cal colnlmter science.
Cambridg(; University Press,Cambridge, England.H.
Paul Grice.
1975.
Logic and Conversation.
InP.
Cole and J. L. Morgan, editors, Synta:c and ,%-ma'u, tic.s IIl: Speech Acts, pages 4 t  58, N.Y. Aca-demic Press.Lynn Lambert and Sandra Carberry.
1999.
A pro-tess model for recognizing communicative actsand modeling negol, iation subdialogues.
Co'mpu-tatio'nal \]Ang'aistics , 25:1 54.Brian Logan, St, even II.c, ece, Allison Cawsey, JuliaGalliers, and Karen Sparck .lones.
:1994.
Beliefrevision and dialogue management in int'ormat;iouretrieval.
T(.
'chnicaI report, University of (Jan>bridge Computer lmboratory.ra  , ra  ~q * Harry Gross lranscrlpts.
1982.
\[ran, crq)ts derivedKern tapes of the radio talk show harry gross:Streaking of your money.
Provided by the l)epl;.of Comlmter Science at the Universii,y of Pemlsyi--vania.Keith Vmlder Linden and Barbara l)i Eugenio.
1996.A corpus study of negative imlleratives in natm'ailanguage instruci;ionso In Proceedings of the 15th.International Confl'.rcnce on Uomputat, io'n, al Lin-gusitics (COLINU-96)~ Copenhagen.746
