Learn ing  to Se lect  a Good Trans la t ionDan T idhar  and Uwe Ki i ssnerTechnische UniversitAt 13erlinFachbereich InformatikFranklinstr.
28/29D-10587 BerlinGermany{ukl dan}~cs,  tu -ber l in ,  deAbst ractWithin tile machine translation system Verb-mobil, translation is 1)ertbrmed simultaneously1)y four indel)endent translation lnodules.
The\['our competing l;ranslatiol~s are coati)|ned 1)y ase,\[e('tion module so as to forln a single opti-mal outlmt for each intmt utterance.
The se-lection module relies on confidence values thatare delivered together with each of the alter-native translations.
Sin(:e the (:onfidence val-ues are computed t)y four independent mod-ules that are flmdanlentally difl'erent from (meanother, they are not dire(:tly (:oml)arat)le andne, ed to l)e rescaled in order to gain (:onq)arativesigniticance.
In this pat)er we describe a ma-chine lecturing method tailored to overcome thisdifficulty l)y using offl ine hmnan thedback todetermine an at)prol)riate confidence res(:alingscheme.
Additionally, we des(:rit)e some othersour(:es of information that are used tbr select-ing 1)el;ween the comt)eting translations, and de-scribe the way in which the seh',ction t)rocessrelates to quality of service specifi('ations.1 In t roduct ionVerbmobil (Wahlster, 2000) is a speech tospeech machine translation system, aimed athandling a wide range of spontaneous pee('hphenomena within the restricted domain oftravel t)lanning and at)pointment sche(hflingdialogues.
For the language 1)airs English-German an(1 Gerinan-English, tbur differenttranslation methods are applied in parallel, thusincreasing the system's robustness and versa-tility.
Since, exa(:tly one translation should t)(;t)roduce(1 for each int)ut utterance, a selection1)rocedure is necessary.
In order to benelit morefrom this diversity, the alternative translationsare furthermore, combined within the t)omld-aries of single utterances, o as to form \]low corn-pound translations.
Combining translationst'ronl different sources within a multi-thread MTsystem has already proved beneficial in the past(Frederking and Nire, nlmrg, 1994).
Our i)resentwork diflhrs fl:om the work reported in there illseveral ways (at)art from the trivial fact thatwe use 'four heads' rather than three).
Firstly,we attempt o investigate a systematic solutionto |;11(; incolnparability of the various confidencevalues.
Secondly, as we deal with speech tospeech rather than text to text translation, dit'-ti;renl; segmentations for each given input stringare allowed, lnaking the segment combinationprocess signitic~mtly ulore COml)licated.1.1 I ncomparab i l i tyEat;h translation lnodule calculates a confidencevalue tbr each translation that it; produces.However, since the w~rious translation methodsare flmdalnentally difl'erent from one another,the resulting contidenee values cannot t)e di-re(:tly (:omt)ared across modules.
Whereas wedo assmne a gener~fl (:orrest)ondence betweenconfidence wflues and translation quality withineach one of the mo(hfles, there is no guarantywhatsoever that a high value delivered t)y a cer-tain module wouM indeed signify a l)etter trans-lation when comt)ared with another value, evena much lower one, which was delivered l)y an-other module.
An additional step needs to 1)etaken in order to make the confidence wfluescomparable with one another.1.2 Working HypothesesIt should be noted that one of our workinghypotheses, namely, that coniidence values dogenerally reflect translation quality, also (:om-t)ensates to ~t certain extent tbr tile lack of awide range theory of translation, according towhich translations of difli;rent sorts could bemlanimously ewduated.
The task of evaluating843translation quality is non-trivial also for humanannotators, ince the applicable criteria are di-verse, and at the absence of a comprehensivetranslation theory, very often lead to contra-dicting conclusions.
This difficulty is partiallydealt with in section 4.1 below, but tbr practicalreasons we tend to accept the need to rely onhuman judgment, partially theory assisted andpartially intuitive, as inevitable.
Another pre-supposition that underlies the current work isthat the desirable rescaling Call be well approx-imated by means of linear polynomials.
Thisassumption allows us to remain within the rel-atively friendly realm of linear equations (al-beit inconsistent), and reflects two basic guid-ing principles: firstly, that tile rescaling is mo-tivated by pragnlatical needs, rather than bydescriptive aspirations, and secondly, that itshould not contradict he presupposed correla-tion between confidence and quality within eachmodule, which implies that the rescaling func-tions should be monotonous.2 The Var ious Trans lat ion  PathsThe Vcrbmobil system includes four indepen-dent translations paths that operate ill paral-lel.
The input shared by all paths consistsof sequences of annotated Word ItypothcscsGraphs (WHG), produced by the speech rec-ognizer.
Each translation inodule chooses in-dependently a path through the WItG, and apossible segmentation according to its gram-mar and to the prosody information (Buckowet al, 1998).
This implies that even thoughall translation modules share the same inputdata structure, both the chosen input string andits chosen segmentation may well differ acrossmodules.
This section provides tile reader withvery brief descriptions of the different trans-lation subsystems, along with their respectiveconfidence value calculation methods.?
The ali subsystem implenlents an exam-pie based translation approach.
Confi-dence values are calculated according to thematching-level of the input string with itscounterparts in the database.?
The s ta t t rans  (Ochet  al., 1999) sub-system is a statistical translation system.Confidence values are calculated accordingto a statistical language model of the targetlanguage, in conjunction with a statisticaltranslation model.?
The syndia log (K ippct  al., 1999) subsys-tem is a dialogue act based translation sys-tem.
Here the translation invariant con-sists of a recognized ialogue act, togetherwith its extracted propositional content.Tile confidence value reflects the probabil-ity that tile dialogue act was recognizedcorrectly, together with the extent o whichthe propositional content was successflfllyextracted.?
The deep translation path in itself con-sists of nmltiple pipelined nlodules: lin-guistic analysis, senlantic onstruction, di-alogue and discourse semantics, and trans-fer (Emele and Dorna, 1996) and gener-ation (Kilger and Finklcr, 1.995) compo-nents.
The transfer module receives dis-anlbiguation information from the conte.xt(Koch et al, 2000) and dialogue modules.The linguistic analysis part consists of sev-eral parsers which, in turn, also operate illparallel (Ruland et al, 1998).
They includeall HPSG parser, a Clmnk Parser and astatistical parser, all producing data struc-tm:es of tile same kind, namely, the Verb-mobil Inter:face Terms (VITa) (Schiehlen ctal., 2000).
Thus, within the deep process-ing path, a selection problem arises, simi-lar to the larger scale problem of selectingthe best translation.
This internal selec-tion process within the deep path is basedon a probabilistic VIT model.
Confidencevalues within the deep path are computedaccording to the amount of coverage of theinput string by the selected parse, and aresubject to modifications as a byproduct ofcombining and repairing rules that oper-ate within the semantics mechanism.
An-other source of intbrmation which is usedfor calculating the 'deetf confidence val-ues is the generation module, which es-timates the percentage of each transferedVIT which can be successfiflly realized illthe target language.Although all confidence values are finally scaledto the interval \[0, 100\] by their respective gen-crating modules, there seems to be hardly anyreason to believe that such fimdamentally dif-844ferent calculation methods would yield magni-tudes that aye directly comi)aral)le with one an-other.
As expected, our experience has shownttsat when confidence values are taken as such,without any further modification, their compar-at|w; significance is indeed very linfited.3 The Se lec t ion  ProcedureIn order to improve their coml)arative signifi-cance, the delivered confidence wflues c(s), tbreach given segment s, arc rescaled by linearflmctions of the tbrm:a-c(,s) + b .
(1)Note that each inI)ut utterance is decomt)osedis|to several segments indet)endently , and hencet)otentially differently, by each of tim translationI)aths.
The different segments arc then cora-l)|ned to tbrm a data structure which, by anal-ogy to Word Itypotheses Graph, (:ass be called~l~'av, slation Alternatives Graph, (TAG).
The sizeof tiffs graph is bound t)y 4 '~, whi(:h is reached ifall translation paths hat)pen to (:hoose an idea>tical partition into exactly n segments.
Thefollowing vectorial not~tion was adot)ted in or-deY to simpli(y the simultaneous reference to alltYanslation t)aths.
The linear coefficients arerepresented by the following tbur-disnensionalvectors:~, ~ O"syndial?g i; = l)'s'Y'ndial?9(1,start,tans ~)~tattra'n.sadccp bdeep(2)Single vector comt)onents cms then be referredto by sinq)le t)Yojections, if we ret)Yenent the d i fferent translatiols paths as orthogonal refit vec-tors, so that .~ denotes the vector torrent)endingto the module by which s had been generated.The normalized confidence in then representedby:(a.
+ (3)In order to express the desirable fav<)ring oftranslations with higher input string coverage,the COml)ared magnitudes are actually the(rescaled) confidence wflues integrated withrespect to the time axis, rather than the(rencaled) confides, co values as n.ch.
Le|; I1 11be tim \]ength of a segment .s of the inputstream, in milliseconds.
Let SEQ be the set ofall possible segment sequences wil;lfin the TAG,and Seq E SEQ any particular sequence.We define tile normalized confidence ofSeq as tbllows:s~SeqTlfis induces the following order relation:Based on this relation, we define the set B ofbest sequences as tbllown:B(SEQ)  = {scq E SEQI  seq is a maxinmmelement in (SEQ; _<c)} ?
(4)The selection procedure consists isl generatingthe various possible sequences, comlmting theirrespective normalized confidence values, and ar-bitrarily choosing a member of the set of bestsequences.
It should be noted that not allsequences need to be actually generated andtested, due to the incorporation of Dijkstra'swell known "Shortest Path" algorithm (e.g.
in(Cormen ctal., 1989)).4 The Learn ing  Cyc leLearning the Yes(:aling coefficients in l)erformedoff-line, and shouht normally take place onlyonce, ulsless new training data is asseml)led, ornew criteria tbr the desirable nystelll l)eh~tviorhave been tbrmulate(l. Tim learning <;y<:le con-sisl, n of incorporating human feedback (trainingset alotation) and finding a set of rescaling(:oe\[ticients so as to yield a selection t)ro(:edurewith optimal or close to optimal accord with thehuman ewfluation.
A training set, consisting oftest dialogues that cover the desirable systensfunctionality, is fed through the system, whileseparately storing the outt)uts produced 1)y thevarious translation modules.
These are thensubject to two phases of mmotation (see sec-tion 4.1), resulting in a set of 'best' sequencesof translated segments tbr each input utterance.The next tank is to determine the atsl)ropri -ate linear rescaling, that would maximize theaccord 1)etween the rescaled confidence wfluesand the 1)references xpressed by those 'best' se-quences.
In order to do that, we first generate alarge set of ilmqualities as (tescYibed in section4.2 below, and then ai)proximate their optimalsolution, as described in section 4.a.8454.1 Training Set Annotat ionAs mentioned above, evaluating alternativetranslations is a complex task, which some-times appears to be difficult even for speciallytrained people.
When one alternative seemshighly appropriate and all the others are clearlywrong, a vigilant annotator would normally en-counter very little difficulty.
But when all op-tions fall within the reasonable reahn and differonly slightly fl'om one another, or even moreso, when all options are far from perfect, eachhaving its mfiquely combined weaknesses andadvantages what criterion should be used bythe annotator to decide which weaknesses aremore crucial tlmn the others?
Our human feed-back cycle is twotbld: first, the outputs of the al-ternative translations paths are annotated sep-arately, so as to enable the calculation of the'off-line confidence values' as described below.For each dialogue turn, all possible combina-tions of translated segments that cover the in-put are then generated.
For each of those possi-ble combinations, an overall off-line confidencevalue is calculated, in a similar way to whichthe 'on-line' confidence is calculated (see sec-tion 3), leaving out the rescaling coefficients,but keeping the time axis integration.
Thesesegment combinations are then t)resented to theannotators tbr a second round, sorted accord-ing to their respective otfl ine confidence values.Tlle annotator is requested at this stage merelyto select the best segment combination, whichwould normally be one of the first; to appearon the list.
The first mmotation stage may bedescribed as 'theory assisted annotation', andthe second is its more intuitive complement.
%)assist the first mmotation rotund we have com-piled a set of mmotation criteria, and designed aspecialized annotation tool for their application.These criteria direct the annotator's attentionto 'essential information items', and rethr to thenumber of such items that have t)een deleted,inserted or maintained during the translation.Other criteria are the semantic and syntacticcorrectness of the translated utterance as wellas those of the source utterance.
The separateannotation of these criteria allows us to expressthe 'off-line confidence' as their weighted linearcombination.
The different weights can be seenas implicitly establishing a method of quantify-ing translation qnality.
One can determine, forinstance, which is of higher importance - -  syn-tactical correctness, or the transmission of allessential intbrmation items.
Using the vague no-tion of 'translation qnality' as a single criterionwould have definitely caused a great divergencein personal annotation style and preferences, ascan be very well exemplified by the case of thedialogue act based translation: some people findword by word correctness of a translation mchmore important than the dialogue act; invari-ante, while others argue exactly the opposite(Schmitz, 1997),(Schmitz and Quantz, 1995).4.2 Generat ing Inequalit iesOnce the best segment sequences for each ut-terance have been determined by the completedam~otation procedure, a set of inequalities iscreated using the linear rescaling coetficients asvariables.
This is done simply by stating the re-quirement hat the normalized confidence valueof the best segment sequence should be betterthan the normalized confidence values of eachone of the other possible sequences.
For eachutterance with n possible segment sequences,this requirement is expressed by (n -1 )  inequal-ities.
It is worth mentioning at this point thatit sometimes occurs during the second annota-tion phase, that numerous equences relating tothe same utterance are considered 'equally best'by the annotator, in such cases, when not allsequences are concerned but only a sul)set ofall possible sequences, we have allowed the an-notator to select nnfltiple seqnences as q)est',correspondingly multiplying the number of in-equalities that are introduced by the utterancein question.
These multiple sets are known inadwmce to be inconsistent, as they in fact for-mulate contradictory requirements.
Since theoptinfization procedure attempts to satisfy thelargest possible subset of inequalities, the logi-cal relation between such contradicting sets canbe seen as disjunction rather than conjunction,and they do seem to contribute to the learn-ing process, because the different 'equally best'sequences are still favored in comparison to allother sequences relating to the same utterance.The overall resulting set; of inequalities is nor-mally very large, and can be expected to be con-sistent only in a very idealized world, even inthe absence of 'equally best' mmotations.
Theinconsistencies reflect many imperfections thatcharacterize both the problenl at hand and the846long way to its solution, inost outstanding ofwhich is the fact that the original confidencevalues, as useflfl as they may l)e, are neverthe-less far from reilecting the human annotationand evaluation results, which are, furthermore,not always consistent anlong themselves.
Therest of the learning process consists in trying tosatisf~y as many inequalities as possible withoutreaching a contradiction.4.3 Opt imizat ion  Heur i s t i csThe l)rol)lem of finding the l)est rescaling co-eiliciellts reduces itself, under the al)ove inen-tioncd presut)t)ositions, to that of fin(ling themaxilnal COllsistent sul)set of inequalities withina larger, most likely inconsistent, set; of linear in-equalities, and solving it.
In (Amaldi and Mat-tavel\]i, 1997), the problem of extracting close-to-lnaxilllUlll consistent subsystelns fi'om an in-consistent linear system (MAX CS) is treatedas part of a strategy for solving the prol)lenlof partitioning an inconsistent linear systeminto a lain|real nuIntmr of consistxmt sul)systems(MIN PCS).
Both t)rol)h',nls are NP-hard, |)uI;through a thernlal variation of previous workby (Agmon, 1954) and (Motzkin and Schoen-berg, 1954), a greedy algorithm is tbrmulatedt)y (Amaldi and Mattavclli, 1997), which canserve as an effective heuristic tbr ol)taining op-timal or near to optimal solutions lbr MAX CS.hnplementing this algorithm ill the C lmlguagc,ellal)led us to comple, te the learning cych', t)ytindiug a sol; of coetlicients that maximizes, oral.
least nearly maximizes, the accord of t;h(;rescaled (:onfidence wflues with the judgment1)rovided by human aunot;ators.5 Add i t iona l  I n fo rmat ion  Sourcesllndel)endently of the confidence rescaling pro-cess, we have made several attempts to incorpo-rate additional latin'mat|on ill order to refine theselection procedure.
Some of these attempts,such as using probabilistic language model in-fi)rmation~ or inferring fi'om the logical relationbetween the approximated propositional con-te, nts of neighboring utterances (e.g.
trying toeliminate contra(liction), have not been fruit-ful enough to be worth full descril)tion ill thepresent work.
The following two sections de-scribe two attempts that do seem to be worthmentioning in fltrther detail.5.1 D ia logue  Act  I n fo rmat ionOur experience shows that the translation qual-ity that is accomplished by the different mod-ules w~ries, among the rest;, according to thedialogue act at hand.
This seelns to be par-ticularly true for syndia log,  the dialogue actbased translation path.
Those dialogue actsthat normally transmit very little propositionalcontent, or those that transmit no propositionalcontent at all, are normally handled bettert)y synd ia log  compared to dialogue acts thattransmit more information (such as INFORM,wlfieh can in principle transmit any proposi-tion).
The dialogue act recognition algorithmused by synd ia log  does not comt)ute the sin-gle most likely dialog act, but rather a probabil-ity distril)ution of all possible dialogue acts 1 Werepresent the dialogue act probability distribu-tion for a giv(m segment .s by the vector d~t(,~),where each component denotes the conditionali)rol)al)ility of a certain dialogue act, given thesegment .s:( P I ) &(.
*) =The.
vectors g and b fl:om section 3 above are re-placed by the matrices A and 13 which are sim-ply a coneatem~tion f the rest)ective (tbdoguea('t v(x'tors?lJ,,t X = and 0 =The normalized confidence wflue, with.
incorpo-rated dialogue act information can then be ex-pressed as:= + ?
.7 ) .
I t , l l  ?.sd?
'cq5.2 Disambiguat ion  In format ionWithin the deep translation path, several typesof underspecitication are used for representingambiguities (Kiissner, 1997), (Kiissner, 1998),(Emele and Dorna, 1.998).
Whenever an ambi-guity has to be resolved in order for the trans-lation to succeed, resolution is triggered on de-mand (Buschbeck-Wolf, 1997)?
Several types1For more ilfformation about dialogue, acts in Vca'b-mobil, see (Alexandersson ctal., 1997)847of disambiguation are perfornmd by the contextmodule (Koch et al, 2000), which uses variousknowledge sources in conjunction fbr resolvinganaphorical and lexical ambiguities.
Examplesfor such knowledge sources are world knowl-edge, knowledge about the dialogue state, aswell as various sorts of morphological, syntac-tic and semantic information.
Since the deeptranslation path is the only one that includescontextual disambiguation, its confidence valueis incremented by the selection module when-ever such ambiguities occur.6 Qual i ty of Service ParametersTranslation quality is t)erhaps the most signifi-cant Quality of Service (QoS) parameter as faras MT systems are concerned.
The selectionmodule and the learning procedure as describedabove, are indeed ainmd at optimizing this pa-rameter.
Additionally, we have further exper-imented with our selection module in order toaccommodate for other QoS parameters as well.Analogously to QoS in Open Distributed Pro-gramming (ODP), we can distinguish t)etweenthe tbllowing main categories: timeliness, vol-ume, and reliability.
In the timeliness category,we refer to the delay from the beginning of theacoustic intmt till the begilnfing of the acousticoutput, which is highly dependent on the sys-tem's incrementality.
The algorithm describedso far requires the presence of all translated seg-ments within a given dialogue turn, betbre theselection itself cast take place.
This implies arelatively long delay, because the biggest pos-sible increment unit, i.e.
the whole turn, isbeing used.
The maximal increlnentality, andtherefore the minimal delay, are achieved whenthe first ready segment is being chosen at eachpoint.
This implies, however, a possible deterio-ration in translation quality, and increasing therisk that due to segmentation differences acrossmodules, no appropriate continuation would befound tbr the frst  segment hat had been cho-sen.
The latter is referred to as 'loss rate', andbelongs to the reliability category of QoS di-mensions.
The trade-off between loss rate andincrementality is parameterized by the selec-tion module, by selecting a segment as soon asn translation modules have delivered segmentswith similar segmentations (1 < n < 4).
Withinthe vohnne category, we define the real time fac-tor (RTF) as the relation between the overallprocessing time (from the beginning of acous-tic input till the end of acoustic output) andthe overall speaking time (lmginning of acous-tic input till the end of acoustic input).
Inorder to SUl)port conformance to RTF specifi-cation tbr the translation service, the selectionmodule supports a QoS signal interface.
A QoSmanagenmnt module monitors the runtime be-havior of the translation modules, and signalsthe selection process if the estimated R3~F isexpected to exceed the specification.
Upon re-ceiving such a signal, the selection module at-tempts to complete its output without waiting\['or fllrther translated segments.7 Conclus ionWe have described certain difficulties that arisefl'om the attempt o integrate multiple alterna-tive translation paths and to choose their op-timal coml)ination into one 'l)est' translatiou.Using confidence values that originate fl'om dif-ferent translation modules as our basic selec-tion criterion, we have introduced a learningmethod which enables us to select in maximalaccord with decisions taken by human annota-tors.
Along the way, we have also tackled someproblematic aspects of translation evaluation assuch, described some additional sources of in-formation that are used by our selection mod-ule, and briefly sketched the way in which it;supports quality of service specifications.
Theextent to which this module succeeds in creat-ing higher quality compound translations is ofcourse highly dependent on the appropriate as-signment of confidence values, pertbrmed by thetranslation modules themselves.
As a rough cri-terion tbr evaluating our success, we comparedthe selection module's output to the best re-suits achieved by a single translation path.
Re-cent Verbmobil evaluation results demonstratean improvement of 27.8% achieved by the selec-tion module, measured by the number of dia-logue turns that were marked 'good' by amm-tators who were presented with live alternativetranslations tbr each turn, namely, those deliv-ered by the four single paths, and the coml)oundtranslation delivered by the selection module.848ReferencesS.Agmon.
Th, c rclazatiov, mcth, od for linear in-cq'aalitics C;madi:m ,\]ournM of M~tthcmati(:s,6:382-392, 19M.J.Ale.xmMersson, B.liuschb(~(:k-Wolf,T.lhtjin~tmi, M.Kipp, S.Koch, l,kMaier,N.1l.cithingcr, B.Schmil;z, M.Siegel.
DialoqucActs in VERBMOBIL-2 Sc<:oud Editio~l,\])FKI Saarbriickcn, Universitiil; Sl;ul;l;garl;,Technis('he Univ(,rsitSt \]h'rlin, Univ('rsiti~tdes Sa~MmMcs, Verbmol)il Rot)oft 226, Mai\ ] .997.E.AmMdi, M.Mattavelli.
A combinatorical op-timization approach to extract pieccwise tin-car structure .\[:rom nonlinear data and a'n ap-plication to optical Jto'w scgmantatio'n , TR\[)7-12, Corncll Comlml;ational ()t)timiz~tionProject, Corn(;ll University, Itlm(:a NY, USA.J.Bu(:kow, A.Batlincr, F.Gallwitz, R.Ihfl)cr,E.NSth, V.Wm:nke, mM H.Nicmmm.
Dove-tailing of Acov, stics and Prosody i'n ,5'pov, ta-rico'as Speech R, ccognitio',, In Pro(:.
int.
Conf.on St)okcn Languagc Processing, vohmw, 3,pages 571-574, Sydlmy, Australia, De,(:cmbcr1998.B.Buschbc(:k-Wolf.
lb:sol,atio',, on Demar~,d.1Jnivcrsil;i~t Stuttgarl;.
Verl)mol)il l{,et)ort 196.May \]997.T.
(~orlllCll, (Ll~eiscrson, \].\]/,ivcl;.
I)~.t'rod'ltctionto Algorithms MIT \])r(;ss, (Smfl)ri(tgc, Mas-sachusetts, \] 98!t.M.Emcle, M.Dorna.
EJficicnt hnph:mcu, tationof a Semantic-based T'lnn.~/~r Approach InProceedings ofthe 12th Eurot)can Conferenceon Artificial intelligence (ECAI-9(i).
August1996.MZEmclc, M.Dorna.
Ambiguity Pre, s+:r,ving Ma-chine 7;innslation 'asing l)ackcd Rcprcs'c'uta-tions.
In Proceedings of tim \]7th Int(;rna-l;iomfl Confcrcncc on Comtml;~tionM Linguis-tics (COLING-ACL '98), MontreM, Canada.August 1998.FLlKcdcrking, S.Nirenburg.
Thr(',c ltc,,ds arcBetter than One, ANLP94P, p 95-100, 1994.A.Kilger, W.Finklcr.
\]ncrcmcntal Generation.for Real-Time Applications, DFKI Report;RR-95-11, German tl,('sc~rch Center for Ar-titiciM Intelligence - DFKI GmbH, 1995.M.Kipp, J.Alcxandersson, N.Rcithinger.
Un-derstanding Spou, tancous Negotiation Dia-h).q'uc Proceedings of the, IJCAI Worksho I)Knowledge and Reasoning in Practical Dia-h)guc Systcllts, Stockhohn, Sweden, August1999.S.Koch, U.Kfissncr, M.Stcdc.
Contc:ctnaI Dis-ambig'aation, hi W.Wahlstcr, Ed.
Vcrbmobihl;b'andations of Spccch, to Speech, 2~'anslationSpringer Verlag, 2000.U.Kiissncr.
Applying DL in Automatic Dialogv, eInterpreting, Proceedings of the InternaI;ionalWorkshop on Descril)tion Logics - DL-97, pp54-58, Gif sur Yvette, France, 1997.U.Kiissncr.
Description Logic Unplugged Pro-ceedings of the, InternationM Workshop onDescription Logics - DL-98, pp 142-146,~lYcnto, Italy, 1998.T.S.Motzkin, I.J.Schocnberg.
Th, c rclazationmethod for linear inequalities Cmm(tian Jour-nal of Mathem~l;ics, 6:393-4()4, 1954.F..l.()ch, C.Tillmnnn, lt.Ncy.
Improvcd Align-mcnt models for Statistical A/htchinc ~J)'au, sla-tion, In Proc.
of the Joint SIGI)AT Conf.
onEmpirical Methods in Natural Language Pro-tossing and Very Large Corpora, Univcrsityof Maryland, 1999.T.Ruland, C.J.Rut)p, J.Spilker, H.Weber,C.Worm.
Mak, in 9 th, c Most of Mult@licity: AM'ulti-Parscr Multi-Strategy Ar(:h, itcct'ar~: forth, c \]?,ob'ast Proccssiu, g of ,5'poke.v, La'n,g'aagc.Proceedings of ICSLP 1998.M.Schich;n, ,\].Bos, M.l)orna Verbmobil nl, c,r-fat(', ~lhrms (VITs), In W.Wahlsl;er, Ed.Ve'rbmobil: I,b',,ndatiou,~" of Spccch, to Spccch,'l'ranslation Springer Vcrlag, 2000.B.Schmitz.
Pragmatikbasicrtcs Masch, inellcsDolmctschcn.
\])isscrtation, FB Informatik,TU Berlin, 1997.B.S(:hmitz, J.J.Quantz.
Diah)guc Acts in Auto-matic Dialoquc Interpreting in Proceedings ofthe Sixth inl;crll~l;ion~l Conference OlI rlThco-rcticM and McthodologicM Issues in Machine'lYanslation (TMI-95), Lcuven, 1995.W.Wahlster, Ed.
Vcrbmobih ~bundations ofSpeech, to Speech, ~}'anslation Springer Vcrlag,2000.C.Worm, C.J.l:l,ut)t).
Towards Robust Uudcr-standing of Spccch by Combination of PartialAnalyses Proceedings of ECAI 1998849
