Machine Translation by Interactionbetween Paraphraser and TransferKazuhide YamamotoATR Spoken Language Translation Research Laboratories2-2-2, Hikaridai, Seika-cho, Soraku-gun, Kyoto, 619-0288 Japanyamamoto@fw.ipsj.or.jpAbstractA machine translation model has been pro-posed where an input is translated throughboth source-language and target-language para-phrasing processes.
We have implemented ourprototype model for the Japanese-Chinese lan-guage pair.
This paper describes our core ideaof translation, where a source language para-phraser and a language transfer cooperates intranslation by exchanging information aboutthe source input.1 IntroductionHumans generally have language capability,mostly for their mother tongue and to a lesserextent for foreign languages.
This leads usto making the most of our mother language,even in conducting translation.
That is, whenwe translate our language into a foreign oneunfamiliar to us, we may try to paraphrasethe source input into easier expressions we cantranslate.In contrast, there is no such machine trans-lation (MT) model so far proposed where thesource language module is biased over the bilin-gual language module.
All of the MT models areeither those where the bilingual processor takesthe initiative over the source language analyzer(conventional analyze-transfer-generate model)or integration models of analyzer and transfer,such as example-based or statistical models.
Al-though some MT models have a paraphraser(also called a ?pre-editor?
), such as that of Shiraiet al (1993), paraphrasing is performed in thesemodels because it is necessary to prepare for thesubsequent bilingual process.
In other words,the paraphraser operates as a sub-module forsuccessful transfer.We have proposed a new MT model thatis more similar to the human translation pro-cess than other MT systems (Yamamoto etal., 2001).
This model, called the Sandglassmodel, is designed so that the system can gener-ate a translation through source language para-phrasing, even if the system does not havesufficient bilingual knowledge.
In this sense,our model design can be considered a non-professional translator?s model.From the engineering point of view, ourmodel has an advantage in language portability;it is easy to construct an MT for a new language,since our model depends only on source lan-guage and thus can reduce dependence on bilin-gual knowledge.
Moreover, the better sourcelanguage paraphraser we make, the easier theimplementation of other language MT becomes.Another advantage is task portability, since allof the paraphrasing knowledge, except for lex-ical paraphrasing knowledge, is independent ofthe task, so we do not need to fit most of theparaphrasing knowledge to the required task.
Itis also significant that this model?s paraphrasercan be employed not only for MT but also formost natural language processing (NLP) appli-cations.
This is possible because both the inputand output of a paraphraser is the same naturallanguage.We have been building the Sandglass MTsystem for the Japanese-Chinese, Chinese-Japanese language pairs (Yamamoto et al,2001; Zhang and Yamamoto, 2002).
We havealready constructed a prototype for Japanese-Chinese.
In this paper, we report the core con-cepts of this prototype and discuss issues of bothour principle and our implementation.2 Sandglass Translation ModelFigure 1 shows our paradigm for a translationmodel.
In the conventional MT model, the pro-cess load and the information used to deal withConventional paradigmSandglass paradigmtranslation processloadmaximum load in abilingual transferprocessmaximum load in amonolingual processby paraphrasingFigure 1: Comparison of the two MT paradigmsit are maximized in the transfer module; how-ever, we propose that they be minimized in thetransfer in consideration of language portabilityand task portability.This translation approach is effective in MTwhere neither the source- nor target-languageis English.
Although there are a large numberof bilingual corpora currently available, most ofthem are between English and other language.This suggests that it is not useful to applybilingual-corpus-based approaches to situationsnot involving English.
Moreover, conventionalapproaches based on hand-written rules are alsounsuccessful due to lack of bilingual speakers ofnon-English pairs.We also assume that reduction of bilingualprocessing costs is crucial for multilingual MTconstruction.
Although both interlingual MTand MT with controlled language satisfies thisrequest, our MT paradigm has an advantagein that it does not require design of interlin-gua/controlled language, which can be a criticalproblem.2.1 Modularity and paraphrasingstrategyThe Sandglass translation model has asource language paraphraser (hereafter theparaphraser) and a bilingual language transfer(hereafter the transfer), which have high modu-larity with each other in order to develop themas independently as possible.
One of our aimsin this model is to develop a general-purposeparaphraser that can also be used in other NLPapplications.When the system has modularity, the para-phraser does not need to consider the knowl-edge or translation capability of the transfer.However, the paraphraser has trouble in plan-ning a paraphrasing strategy, since the purposeof paraphrasing in this model is to help small-knowledge transfer.
One may think of it as asolution to generate all possible paraphrases,transfer them into the target language, and se-lect the best one among the successful outputs.We believe that, although this strategy works,it is not practical due to the computation cost.In many cases, there are local paraphrases pos-sible for one input, which may result in com-binatorial explosion for generating paraphrases.Moreover, this strategy leads to a more seriousproblem in speech translation that requires real-time computation.As an alternative, we propose the followingstrategy for planning paraphrases.
We firstput the controller between the paraphraser andthe transfer.
The controller communicates withboth the paraphraser and the transfer and ex-changes information between them on the targetsentence be translated.
As opposed to the one-way information path from the paraphraser tothe transfer, a bi-directional information flowenables cooperation by allowing each moduleto provide its counterpart with information onwhat is possible and what is impossible.This kind of process is not necessary in thetypical MT model, since each process has the re-sponsibility to perform its mission successfullyand giving up is never allowed.
If one of theprocesses gives up its mission, the entire transla-tion process also gives up and fails.
On the con-trary, our model (sometimes) allows the transferto give up generating the target language.
Al-though this responsibility continuously enlargesthe transfer knowledge, it is one of the criticalproblems of the typical MT.
In general, in or-der to avoid a fatty transfer, we propose shiftingthe responsibility of generating the target lan-guage from the transfer process to monolingualprocesses.<1> "W1 W2 W3 W4"<2>  W3 -> W3+ ?<3> "W1 W2 W3+ W4"W3 -> W3+W5 -> W5+ W6W10 W11-> W12...W1 W2 W3+ W4 -> ...W1 W5 W3 -> ...W7 W8 W9 W10 -> ......TransferKnowledgeParaphrasingKnowledgeController TransferParaphraserNGOKTo TargetLanguageParaphraser<5><4>OKFigure 2: Translation strategy by interaction ofthe two modules2.2 Interaction between paraphrasingand transferFigure 2 illustrates our translation strategy.The translator mainly consists of the para-phraser and the transfer, where a controlleris located between the two modules in orderto control the information flow1.
This modelhas the following characteristics: (1) the para-phraser and the transfer are equivalent in termsof process sequences, i.e., the process flow is notan assembly line type, and (2) the knowledge forparaphrasing and that for transferring are sep-arated so that the paraphraser and the trans-fer are responsible for monolingual and bilingualprocessing, respectively.The translation process is achieved as follows.The output of word segmentation and part-of-speech (POS) tagging is first attempted totransfer to the target language through the con-troller.
Assume that a sequence of morphemesW1W2W3W4, where Wi is each morpheme, failsto transfer (process ?1?
in the figure).In this case, the transfer may obtain informa-tion on the failed input morphemes that is use-ful for the paraphrasing strategy, such as similarmorpheme sequences that can be transferred or1For simplicity, other parts of the translator are hid-den in the figure.parts of the input that are impossible to trans-fer.
Our transfer can obtain expressions similarto the input, if any exists, when the transferfails.
In this example, the transfer found thatthe morpheme sequence W1W2W3+W4 is simi-lar to one in its knowledge, i.e., it understandsthat the input can be transferred if W3 can beparaphrased into W3+.
Accordingly, the trans-fer provides this information to the paraphraseras a paraphrasing hint (process ?2?
).Then the paraphraser attempts to use thissuggestion prior to other paraphrasing trials.
Itjudges whetherW3 is replaceable byW3+, and ifit has such knowledge, it paraphrases based onthe transfer hint and returns this paraphrase tothe transfer (process ?3?).
Again, the transfercarries out a new trial and it succeeds in transla-tion this time (process ?4?).
Finally, the targetlanguage expression is passed to the subsequentprocesses (process ?5?
).Among the possibilities other than thoseshown in the figure, if the transfer cannot findany similar expression, the paraphraser thenattempts to rewrite the input by utilizing itsown paraphrasing knowledge.
Similarly, if theparaphraser cannot accept the rewriting hintthat the transfer suggests, the paraphraser alsothinks by itself.2.3 ParaphraserCurrently, our paraphraser can deal with sixparaphrasing types: (1) verification of thetransfer?s suggestion, (2) input segmentation,(3) reduction of honorific expressions (Ohtakeand Yamamoto, 2001), (4) simplification offunctional words (Yamamoto, 2001), (5) chunk-ing of noun phrases, and (6) deletion of minorelements.
Paraphrasing is conducted in this or-der.
If one of the pattern conditions in thisparaphrasing knowledge is matched, the para-phraser then finishes and returns its paraphrase;no other paraphrase is pursued.
(1) As the first type of the paraphrasing, theparaphraser verifies the paraphrasing hint thatthe transfer suggests, if any.
In our model, all ofthe suggested paraphrasing rules are formed assingle-morpheme replacements, most of whichare functional words.
Therefore, the para-phraser has a list of these types of rephrasingrules in advance to verify the suggestion.
Wehave built a list that contains 175 replacementpatterns.Ex.1 ?(It seems interesting.
)Ex.2?(Until what time is it?
)In the above two examples, a sentence-finalparticle and an auxiliary verb are replaced, re-spectively.
These slight differences should bemerged before bilingual processing in order torestrict unnecessary combinations in the targetlanguage.
(2) If the verification fails, the paraphraserthen attempts to split the input utterance ac-cording to the pre-defined segmentation rules.This is necessary because we are dealing withspoken language, which has no clear sentenceboundaries.
The segmentation rules, consistingof 30 rules, are defined by checking sequencesof either word or POS.
For example, in manycases, if there is a sentence-final particle, thenthe input is segmented after that word.
In thefollowing example, a segmentation border is de-scribed by the symbol ?
;?.Ex.3 ?;(So, see you!
)Ex.4 ?;(How much?
That one.
)It is possible to regard the above two exam-ples as single sentences, so it is difficult in gen-eral in Japanese speech to determine whetherto segment them or not.
However, this is nota problem in the proposed method because oursegmentation is conducted only if the transferfails to deal with the input as a single sentence.
(3) Honorific expressions are seen in Japanesespeech very frequently.
These expressions in-volve many variations for expressing one sense,so they should be unified before the transfer toavoid the great amount of increase in unnec-essary bilingual knowledge that would be ex-pected.
Our paraphraser for honorifics, whichwas proposed by Ohtake and Yamamoto (2001),reduces such variations to as few as possible.
Wehave 212 paraphrasing patterns for honorific ex-pressions.Ex.5 ?(Then how should we do?
)Ex.6  !
"?#!
"(Unfortunately, there isn?t.
)(4) Similarly to honorifics, there are alsomany variations in Japanese verbal expressions,so we again need to reduce variations.
Spoken-style expressions are targets of paraphrasinghere, and they are replaced by written- ornormal-style expressions.
The target phenom-ena and the effects of this paraphraser havebeen discussed in Yamamoto (2001).
The para-phraser we use involves 302 patterns.Ex.7 $%&'"(?$%(I think it may be a cold.
)(5) Noun phrases are chunked here accordingto simple pattern matching by lexicon or POS:if two or more nouns are consecutive with orwithout a possessive-like particle ?),?
we thenregard them as one noun phrase.
This processis necessary because we parse input utterancesin neither the paraphraser nor the transfer, andthe transfer only see POS sequences.
We ex-pect that this chunking would help to makeour template-based poor transfer more robustagainst input variations.
However, we place thisprocess at a low priority in the paraphrasing or-der because an unconditional operation of thisprocess is considered to be troublesome, espe-cially in spoken language.
A chunk is illustratedas {?
?
?}
below:Ex.8 *+,)-./"?
{*+,)-./}"(It?s Tuesday, at five p.m.)(6) As the final paraphrasing measure,the paraphraser deletes relatively unimportantparts of the input expressions, such as adverbsof manner and degree, as well as particles ex-pressing topical markers.
Changing POS se-quences of the input changes the searching spacein the transfer knowledge.
In the followingtwo examples, two particles and an adverb aredeleted, respectively.
Currently, we have 22 pat-terns in this type.Ex.9 0,12?0,12(It will be ready by tomorrow.
)Ex.10 3"456&'?456&'(Perhaps it takes ten minutes.
)2.4 Transfer knowledge constructionOur transfer knowledge is constructed as fol-lows.
Because our principle requires that thebilingual processing and its efforts should be re-duced as much as possible, our bilingual knowl-edge is primitive and easy to construct automat-ically.
Our knowledge sources are a sentence-aligned text corpus between Japanese and Chi-nese, a Japanese-Chinese dictionary where onesource word may correspond to many targetwords, and a Japanese analyzer.
Note that weused neither a Chinese analyzer nor tagging inthe Chinese corpus.Our transfer process is based on a word-template transfer technique, and we conductedautomatic word alignment for its knowledge.We first analyzed all Japanese sentences in thecorpus by the free-to-use morphological ana-lyzer JUMAN2.
We then checked, by stringmatching, whether each source language con-tent word has a corresponding target word.
Ifthis alignment succeeds, both source and tar-get language words are tagged with the sameID number.
When more than one translation inthe dictionary can be aligned, the longest wordin the target side is selected for alignment.One source language word may correspondto a target word that appears more than once.For example, a translation of the Japanese ques-tion ?78!"?
is ??.
We can dealwith this result by accepting multiple corre-spondences, e.g., ?
?#538? ?#538??where ??
?
??
is a word boundary and #538 is an(example) ID number.Hereafter, we call these sentence sets tem-plates and the aligned parts in a sentence vari-ables.2.5 TransferThe transfer module converts the source lan-guage input into the corresponding target lan-guage expressions by using the templates.
The2http://www-nagao.kuee.kyoto-u.ac.jp/nl-resource/juman-e.htmlprocess consists of two parts, i.e., template re-trieval and template matching.The process first searches for templates sat-isfying similarity to the input expression.
Inorder to judge similarity between the input andthe templates, we only use the POS sequencesof the input.
If the retrieval succeeds, i.e., tem-plates are found that have the same POS se-quence, we then compare, word by word, theinput and each retrieved template.
If a word is avariable in the template, this comparison alwayssucceeds.
If there is no template retrieved, thetransfer reports to the paraphraser (through thecontroller) that the retrieval process has failed.In this case, the paraphraser is required to some-how change the input sentence in terms of POSsequences.Suppose that some templates are retrievedbut matching fails, implying that some lexiconsare different.
Although this case is a trans-fer failure as well, the transfer has informationon which parts of the input sentence failed totransfer, and such information could be a keyfor paraphrasing.
Therefore, information onunmatched parts is also returned to the para-phraser with the result of the transfer failure.
Ifmultiple templates are retrieved and all of themfail in matching, all of the unmatched parts arereturned in parallel.If both the template retrieval and the tem-plate matching succeeds, this indicates that thetransfer process has finished successfully.
Theinput sentence is converted to the target lan-guage, and the transfer throws it to the con-troller for the following process.
If more thanone target language expression is returned dueto the multiple successes in template matching,all of them are returned in parallel, and the fol-lowing processes determine the best results.3 Preliminary ExperimentWe conducted a preliminary experiment to eval-uate the translation capability under the cur-rent paraphrasing skills.
Although there aremany items that should be evaluated in MT, ourfirst interest in the prototype is how much theparaphraser supports poor transfer knowledgeand how small the acceptable transfer knowl-edge can be.The transfer knowledge contains a bilingualdictionary of approximately 51,000 source lan-guage lexical entries, as well as up to 233,000020406080100100 1k 10k 100kOutput Performance(%)Transfer Knowledge (templates)partialwholeno paraphrasingFigure 3: Changes in output ratios by amountof transfer knowledgeutterances, in the domain of travel situations,and their translations.
For evaluation, we use1,000 utterances, each of which is 10 or fewermorphemes long, selected at random and un-seen by the transfer.The prototype is programmed in Perl lan-guage, and the running time at the maximumtransfer knowledge is 0.555 second per utterancewith a Pentium III 600 MHz processor.
Theratios of the fully- and partially-translated ut-terances to several transfer knowledge sizes areplotted in figure 3.
For comparison purposes,translation performance without the paraphras-ing process is also illustrated in the figure.
Theexperiments were conducted three times undereach condition.We can understand the importance of para-phrasing by observing the approximately 20%-40% performance gaps between full output andno paraphrasing.
The paraphraser improvesperformance regardless of the knowledge size.The gaps are not trivial, so the experiments con-firmed that the paraphraser plays an importantrole in the interaction process.The figure also shows the fact that only 30%of the unseen input is translated using POS-sequence-based maximum templates.
Consider-ing that all inputs are 10 morphemes or fewer,this low performance implies the necessity toacquire 70% knowledge by somehow generaliz-ing the existing 30% knowledge.
The currentparaphrasing knowledge ?
a collection of humanintuition ?
can cover 40% of the inputs, whileit seems difficult to cover the same or higher22.533.54100 1k 10k 100kNumber of trials(times)Transfer Knowledge (templates)Figure 4: Changes in number of paraphrasingtrials by the amount of transfer knowledgelevel by only automatically-acquired informa-tion from corpora.Figure 4 shows the average number of para-phrasing trials.
It would be a major problem inthis design if there were many interaction loopsbetween the paraphraser and the transfer, butwe found that such worries are unwarranted inthe current system.
However, it is necessary tobe careful in this measure, since we need to addmore functions to the paraphraser in order toavoid zero output.4 Related WorksIt is important to reduce the burden of trans-fer to realize multilingual MT.
In this sense,MT using a controlled language, such as theKANT system (Mitamura et al, 1991), has sim-ilar principles to our approach.
We believe thatmultilingual MT systems should not place theobligation of transferring the target languageon the transfer module.
Difficult or ambiguousinput should be checked in document transla-tions, while it should somehow be resolved be-fore the transfer module in speech translation,since real-time dialog conversation is a require-ment.Although we cannot find an MT model wherean interactive (that is, feedback) approach be-tween the two sub-modules is implemented, sev-eral types of interactive models have been dis-cussed in natural language generation systems.In the Igen system (Rubinoff, 1992), which hasa similar interactive operation, the Formulatormodule provides feedback to the Conceptualizermodule with information on how much of thecontent can been covered by a particular wordchoice.
The Conceptualizer can then determinewhich choice satisfies its secondary goals withthese annotations.Two similar works paraphrase source inputfor MT.
One is the work of Shirai et al (1993),where they proposed a pre-editing approach fora Japanese-English MT system ALT-J/E.
Theother is the work of Yoshimi and Sata (1999),where they presented an approach to rewritingEnglish newspaper headlines for the English-Japanese MT system Power E/J.
The signif-icant difference between their approaches andours is the model design, i.e., whether the para-phraser and the transfer are sequential or inte-grated.
Moreover, the purposes of paraphrasingare also different: in the pre-editing system it isfor expediting the transfer and in the newspaperheadline system it is for reducing peculiaritiesin the headline; on the other hand, our para-phraser?s purpose is to support poor transferknowledge.5 ConclusionsWe have proposed that many MT problems canbe resolved if we have two paraphrasers, inboth the source- and target-language.
We havealso proposed that bilingual knowledge be min-imized in order to increase portability to otherlanguages or other tasks.This paper explained details of our MT sys-tem design and discussed its advantages.
Onefeature of our design is that the translationprocess is achieved by interaction between thesource language paraphraser and the transfer,unlike the conventional sequential MT model.We illustrated this advantage concretely byshowing examples of the information exchangedbetween the two modules.It is obvious that the bilingual burden is dras-tically eased in this model, while the importanceof the monolingual process (i.e., paraphrasing)is increased.
Although we did not illustratemany problems, such as ambiguity reduction forsyntax or semantics, we will explore these is-sues in the future.
Also, we need to evaluatethe quality of the translation outputs after thetarget paraphraser is implemented.AcknowledgmentThe research reported here was supported in part bya contract with the Telecommunications Advance-ment Organization of Japan entitled, ?A study ofspeech dialogue translation technology based on alarge corpus.
?ReferencesTeruko Mitamura, Eric Nyberg, and Jaime Car-bonell.
1991.
An efficient interlingua transla-tion system for multi-lingual document pro-duction.
In Proc.
of MT Summit III, pages55?61.Kiyonori Ohtake and Kazuhide Yamamoto.2001.
Paraphrasing honorifics.
In Proc.
ofNLPRS2001 Workshop on Automatic Para-phrasing: Theories and Applications, pages13?20.Robert Rubinoff.
1992.
Integrating text plan-ning and linguistic choice by annotating lin-guistic structures.
In R. Dale, E. Hovy,D.
Rosner, and O.
Stock, editors, Aspects ofautomated natural language generation, pages45?56.
Berlin: Springer.Satoshi Shirai, Satoru Ikehara, and TsukasaKawaoka.
1993.
Effects of automatic rewrit-ing of source language within a Japanese toEnglish MT system.
In Proc.
of TMI?93,pages 226?239.Kazuhide Yamamoto, Satoshi Shirai, MasashiSakamoto, and Yujie Zhang.
2001.
Sand-glass: Twin paraphrasing spoken languagetranslation.
In 19th International Conferenceon Computer Processing of Oriental Lan-guages (ICCPOL2001), pages 154?159.Kazuhide Yamamoto.
2001.
Paraphrasing spo-ken Japanese for untangling bilingual trans-fer.
In Proc.
of NLPRS2001, pages 203?210.Takehiko Yoshimi and Ichiko Sata.
1999.Automatic preediting of English newspaperheadlines and its effects in a English-to-Japanese MT system.
In Proc.
of NaturalLanguage Processing Pacific-Rim Symposium(NLPRS?99), pages 275?279.Yujie Zhang and Kazuhide Yamamoto.
2002.Paraphrasing of Chinese utterances.
In Proc.of COLING2002.
