Reasoning in Metaphor Understanding:The ATT-Meta Approach and SystemJohn Barnden, Sheila Glasbey, Mark Lee, Alan WallingtonSchool of Computer ScienceUniversity of BirminghamBirmingham B15 2TT{J.A.Barnden, S.R.Glasbey, M.G.Lee, A.M.Wallington}@cs.bham.ac.ukAbstractA detailed approach has been developed forcore aspects of the task of understanding abroad class of metaphorical utterances.
Theutterances in question are those that dependon known metaphorical mappings but thatnevertheless contain elements not mappedby those mappings.
A reasoning system hasbeen implemented that partially instantiatesthe theoretical approach.
The system, calledATT-Meta, will be demonstrated.
The paperbriefly indicates how the system works, andoutlines some specific aspects of the system,approach and the overall project.IntroductionThe sentence In the far reaches of her mind,Anne believed that Kyle was having an affair1can be analyzed as depending on metaphoricalviews of MIND AS PHYSICAL SPACE andIDEAS AS PHYSICAL OBJECTS (see Barnden2001a).
These views are, plausibly, familiar totypical users of English.
However, it isreasonable to assume that typical users do notalready have a mapping into the mental domainof the physical notion of "far reaches".
Ourapproach to metaphor is predicated on the notionthat one should, when possible, avoidconstructing source-to-target mappings for suchelements of a metaphorical utterance thattranscend the already known mappings in themetaphorical views underlying the utterance.Instead, we advocate the use of metaphor-pretence "cocoons" (reasoning spaces) where theutterance is taken as literally true.
Within-1Slightly adapted from real discourse.cocoon reasoning will attempt to connect these"map-transcending" elements to aspects of thesource using a set of specified conversion rules.The far-reaches qualification in the sentenceimplies by source-domain reasoning that Annecould only to a very low degree physicallymanipulate the idea that Kyle was having anaffair.
Then, if we can appeal to a conversionrule, i.e.
a known mapping of ability tophysically manipulate an idea to ability toconsciously process it, we can draw thereasonable conclusion that Anne only had a verylow degree of ability to consciously process theidea.
In our presentation, we shall demonstratehow the ATT-Meta system deals with thisexample.Note that the rules of reasoning are given aqualitative certainty level, and that predicatescan be graded, using a scale of qualitativedegrees.
For instance, someone can berepresented as understanding a situation to a"medium" degree.Our approach also makes heavy use of "view-neutral mapping adjuncts" (VNMAs).
These aregeneral mapping principles (inspired by thework of Carbonell 1982) that apply, though onlyby default, no matter what metaphorical viewsare in play.
For instance, the ability to do thingsand the degrees with which states of affairs holdare automatically mapped by VNMAs.
In manyexamples of metaphor, most of the real mappingwork is done by VNMAs.Much of the approach has been implemented inthe ATT-Meta system, which is an uncertainrule-based system operating by backchaining(see also Barnden 1998, Barnden 2001, Lee &Barnden, 2001a).
ATT-Meta performsreasoning, but does not yet interface directly tonatural language.
Instead, hand-constructedlogical forms couching the source-domainmeaning of metaphorical sentences are passed toit.
In the above example, the source-domainmeaning is that Anne?s believing was literallyphysically located in the physical far reaches ofher mind.The following sections summarize variousabilities of the system, principles of theapproach, and aspects of ongoing theoreticalwork aimed at further extensions to the system.A major item of current implementational workis a fuller realization of VNMAs.1 UncertaintyAlthough reasoning conflict and uncertainty areintricately involved in metaphor, very fewapproaches attempt to grapple with the issues.Propositions and reasoning within both thetarget and source domains, being largely ofcommon-sense varieties, are typically uncertain.It can be uncertain what metaphorical views areinvolved; information transferred from thesource domain can conflict with target-domaininformation; and transfers can even conflict witheach other.
The ATT-Meta system handles allthese types of uncertainty and conflict.
Itsuncertainty handling is based on fairly crudequalitative uncertainty annotations on rules andpropositions, but there is a sophisticatedconflict-resolution mechanism.The uncertainty-handling and conflict-resolutionare almost entirely orthogonal to the provisionsfor metaphor.
This leads to clean design andhelps to address long-standing issues aboutmetaphor.
One such issue is the conflict betweeninformation transferred from the source domainand the target information.
ATT-Meta allowseither side to win, depending on standardspecificity principles.
This goes against a naiveassumption in most of the literature that targetinformation should automatically overridetransfers.
But, this is only convincing when thetarget information is certain.
Indeed, we claimthat metaphor is often used precisely to describean exception to a target-domain default.2 Mixed MetaphorsIssues such as reasoning about uncertainty areparticularly important in the processing of mixedmetaphors.
Mixed metaphors need not featureobvious cases of conflict but can includegraceful combinations of metaphors, such as thefollowing sentence to be examined below: Onepart of John hotly resented the verdict.
Thiscombines a view of John as made up of sub-agents and a view of agents?
emotional states asthings that can have temperature.
It is possible todistinguish two types of mixed metaphor:parallel mixes and serial mixes.
In a parallelmixed metaphor, the target (A) is seen partlythrough an A-as-B metaphor and partly throughanother metaphor, A-as-B?.
B and B?
are ingeneral different domains, but may overlap.Also, different aspects of A may be involved inthe two metaphors.
In a serial mixed metaphor(commonly called a chained metaphor), thetarget (A) is seen as a source (B), which is inturn then seen as a different source (C).Previous work on the understanding of metaphorhas assumed that mixing is a relatively rarephenomenon that can be handled once a moretheory of simple metaphor is developed.
Weargue that this assumption is detrimental toprogress since mixed metaphors rely on thesame conceptual knowledge as simplemetaphors and can, therefore, provide valuableinsight into the processes and representationsunderlying metaphorical reasoning.
Moreover,we claim that the reasoning processes and datastructures involved in understanding mixedmetaphors are identical to those used inunderstanding simple metaphors.
Therefore, anycurrent theory of metaphor should (at least inprinciple) be extensible to deal with mixing.
Tothis end, ATT-Meta handles mixed metaphor ina manner consistent with the way it handlessimple metaphors.
The two types of metaphorare processed in subtly different ways.
Parallelmixed metaphors create separate pretence-cocoons that are mapped in parallel to the targetdomain where their respective contributions areunderstood.
Serial mixed metaphors createnested pretence cocoons where the metaphoricalview of B as C is nested within a pretencecocoon with the view of A as B.3 Reverse Transfers in MetaphorThe use of metaphor involves a flow of effectsof some kind from the source domain to thetarget domain, where effects can include insightsinto the target, hypotheses about the target, orthe highlighting of parts of the target.
However,although the overall effect flow is always fromsource to target, in many cases, this does notpreclude a reverse flow where a literalproposition, command, or question is mappedonto an equivalent within the currentmetaphorical domain.The ATT-Meta system allows conversion rulesto map from propositions in the source domainto propositions in the target domain and also inthe opposite direction.
So a source domainproposition such as "Socrates was the midwifefor an idea" might be mapped onto the targetdomain proposition "Socrates helped in theproduction of the idea".
However, the ruleswould equally allow the proposition "Socrateshelped in the production of the idea" to bemapped to the source domain proposition"Socrates was the midwife for an idea".
Weargue that there are at least three reasons whyATT-Meta should have this ability:(1) Given that metaphors are ultimately used tohave an effect on the target domain, the use of ametaphorical utterance can be seen asanswering, in some sense, a target domainquery.
This sets up a choice between taking themetaphorical utterance and applying allconversion rules to it in the hope that one of theresulting propositions might provide a suitableanswer, or taking the question and converting itinto a question in terms of the current metaphor.We argue that the latter is often more efficient.
(2) Certain source domain propositions wouldallow ATT-Meta to draw a tentative conclusion,which would, were it more strongly supported,provide an argument via a chain of reasoning forsome other, target level, proposition or query.
Atarget-level statement might give the addedsupport, but for this to be the case it would firstneed to be converted into its source-levelequivalent.
(3) The combination of source and target domaininformation within a discourse that onlyintermittently maintains a metaphorical view ofthe target domain may best be done in the sourcedomain after the target domain information hasbeen "metaphorized".
This would be especiallyso if the source domain was information-richcompared to the target domain, so allowingmuch more reasoning to be carried out thanwould be possible in the target domain.4 Non-Declarative MetaphorAlmost all examples of metaphorical languagediscussed in the literature are of declarativeutterances rather than questions, commands,ejaculations, etc.
However, these other forms ofutterance can obviously occur.
For instance, justas one can state "John is a steamroller??
one canask "Is John a steamroller???
Just as one can state"The champion knocked the cream-puff out??
onecan issue the command "Knock that cream-puffout!??
The observation that questions, inparticular, can be metaphorical, plays asignificant role in our theoretical approach.
Thisis because their processing is contiguous withthat of implicit queries generated within themetaphorical pretence cocoon (see Introduction)during ATT-Meta?s goal-directed reasoning.However, the theoretical significance of non-declarative metaphorical utterances is evengreater, because such utterances call intoquestion accounts of metaphor that assume thetask of understanding is to work out what claimabout the target domain the metaphoricalutterance is making.Compiling such examples is an additional goalof our corpus work (see section 6).5 Time and changeWork is ongoing which addresses the temporal,aspectual and causal facets of metaphor.
Asurvey of metaphors in the ATT-Meta Databankreveals, unsurprisingly, that the metaphoricalexpressions there involve a wide range of tenseand aspectual constructions in English, includingpast, present and future tenses, simple andprogressive aspects, and the full set of aspectualclasses.
A wide variety of temporal adverbials isalso present.
A key topic under investigation isthe mapping of temporal and aspectualinformation between source and target domains.For example, if an event is telic in the sourcedomain, to what extent does that telicity carryover to the target domain?
Preliminaryinvestigations confirm the expectation that suchaspectual information is preserved in themajority of cases.
Exceptions exist, however,and these merit further study.The mapping of temporal duration betweendomains is also being investigated.
In somecases, a mapping appears to exist whereby anevent of long duration relative to the sourcedomain maps to an event with long durationrelative to the target domain.
This can becaptured by an appropriate VNMA, which mapsrelative durations between domains.
The logic ofATT-Meta is episode-based, which means that itis relatively straightforward to express this kindof constraint and employ it in reasoning.Currently underway is a detailed examination ofmetaphorical expressions involving both explicitand implicit temporal durations.
This will resultin a set of VNMAs covering a wide range oftense/aspect/temporal-adverbial constructions.A second strand of the work on time involves adetailed study of the metaphors used to describetimes, states and events, including spatialmetaphor for time (Lakoff 1994).6 Corpus Studies of MetaphorAs an adjunct to the development of the ATT-Meta approach and system, we have beenconducting corpus studies of metaphor, mainlyusing the British National Corpus but also usingthe Bank of English and, to a limited extent, websearch engines.
We have used both hand-annotation of small numbers of documents fromthe BNC and automated search for particulartypes of metaphorical phraseology (mainlyrelatively fixed metaphorical phrases concerningmental states) over the whole of corpora.Current objectives are (a) to develop largedatabanks of examples of various types ofmetaphorical utterance, for the benefit ofmetaphor researchers in general, (b) todemonstrate more extensively and objectivelythe importance in discourse of "map-transcending" metaphorical utterances (seeIntroduction), (c) relatedly, to reveal the degreeto which relatively conventional metaphorphraseology can be varied in real discourse (cf.Moon 1998), and (d) to uncover (in smallnumbers of documents) the degree to whichmetaphorical utterances relate to context: howmuch their understanding depends on contextand how much the understanding of the contextdepends in turn on them.
We are interested in (d)because in the ATT-Meta approach the processof metaphorical understanding is partiallyguided by discourse goals set up by context.This feature goes a long way to side-steppingproblems of apparent indeterminacy of meaningof metaphorical utterances when taken inisolation.We also have the methodological objectives ofdeveloping a good annotation regime formetaphor and better-automated searchtechniques for metaphor.
As part of the latter,we plan to investigate the usefulness of a largeset of morphological, lexical, syntactic andphraseological clues to the presence ofmetaphor, inspired by the clues discussed byGoatly (1997).
These clues are only present in aminority of metaphorical utterances but couldnevertheless form a useful weapon in theautomated search armoury.Metaphor detection techniques developed forcorpus study should also help with developing ameans for an understanding system to notice thepresence of metaphor.
Such noticing is notcurrently performed by ATT-Meta but is animportant topic for future research.ConclusionThe ATT-Meta project is making headway inshowing how metaphorical utterances can becomputationally processed.
It is based on adistinctive set of principles as to how tounderstand metaphor, some of which are originaland some related to those of previousresearchers.
In particular, it seeks to avoidexpensive computation of new analogicalmappings between domains as a regular part ofmetaphorical understanding.
This is inspiredpartly by the observation that genuinely novelpairings of domains are relatively rare in realdiscourse.
What are more common are novelextensions of familiar metaphorical views, andnovel mixes of views.
This is true even in poetry(Lakoff and Turner 1989).
The project is alsoseeking to take full account of the important rolethat uncertainty, gradedness and dynamism ofsituations plays in metaphor.The approach and system have been evaluated ina number of ways.
We have applied theimplemented system or the theoretical approachto (simplified versions of) selected real-discourse examples from an existing databank(http://www.cs.bham.ac.uk/~jab/ATT-Meta/Databank): see Barnden (2001a),Barnden & Lee (2001a) and Barnden & Lee(2001b).
We have applied the implementedsystem to examples of all the metaphors ofmental states listed in the Master Metaphor List(Lakoff 1994, Lee & Barnden 2001a).
Theexamples here were found by search over theBank of English.
Finally, we have applied thetheoretical approach to various real-discourseexamples included in Goatly (1997): seeBarnden (2001b).AcknowledgementsThis research is supported by grant GR/M64208from the Engineering and Physical SciencesResearch Council of the UK.ReferencesBarnden, J.
A.
(1998a)  Combining uncertain beliefreasoning and uncertain metaphor-basedreasoning.
In "Procs.
Twentieth Annual Meeting ofthe Cognitive Science Society", Lawrence ErlbaumAssociates, Hillsdale, N.J, pp.114-119.Barnden, J.A.
(2001a)  Application of the ATT-MetaMetaphor-Understanding Approach to VariousExamples in the ATT-Meta Project Databank.Technical Report CSRP-01-02, School ofComputer Science, The University of Birmingham,U.K.Barnden, J.A.
(2001b)  Application of the ATT-Metametaphor-understanding approach to selectedexamples from Goatly.
Technical Report CSRP-01-01, School of Computer Science, The University ofBirmingham, U.K.Barnden, J.A (2001c)  Uncertainty and conflicthandling in the ATT-Meta context-based system formetaphorical reasoning.
In ?Lecture Notes inArtificial Intelligence?, J.G.Carbonell andJ.Siekmann, eds, Springer Verlag, Berlin.Barnden, J.A.
and Lee, M.G.
(1999)  An implementedcontext system that combines belief reasoning,metaphor-based reasoning and uncertaintyhandling.
In " Modelling and Using Context", P.Bouquet, P. Brezillon, L. Serafini ed., LectureNotes in Artificial Intelligence, No.
1688,Springer-Verlag, pp.
28-41.Barnden, J.A.
and Lee, M.G.
(2001a)  Understandingopen-ended usages of familiar conceptualmetaphors: An approach and artificial intelligencesystem.
Technical Report CSRP-01-05, School ofComputer Science, The University of Birmingham,U.K.Barnden, J.A.
and Lee, M.G.
(2001b)  Application ofthe ATT-Meta metaphor-understanding system toan example of the metaphorical view of MINDPARTS AS PERSONS.
Technical Report CSRP-01-09, School of Computer Science, The University ofBirmingham, U.K.Carbonell, J.G.
(1982)  Metaphor: an inescapablephenomenon in natural-language comprehension.In "Strategies for Natural Language Processing",W. Lehnert & M. Ringle ed., Lawrence Erlbaum,Hillsdale, N.J, pp.415-434.Goatly, A.
(1997)  The language of metaphors.Routledge, London and New York.Lakoff, G. (1994)  The Master Metaphor List.http://cogsci.berkeley.edu/, University ofCalifornia, Berkeley.Lakoff, G. and Turner, M. (1989)  More than coolreason: a field guide to poetic metaphor.University of Chicago Press, Chicago.Lee, M. G. and Barnden, J.
A.
(2001a)  Reasoningabout mixed metaphors within an implemented AIsystem.
Metaphor and Symbol 16, 1& 2, pp.
29-42.Lee, M. G. and Barnden, J.
A.
(2001b)  MentalMetaphors from the Master Metaphor List:Empirical Examples and the Application of theATT-Meta System Technical Report CSRP-01-03,School of Computer Science, The University ofBirmingham, U.K.Moon, R. (1998)  Fixed idioms and expressions inEnglish.
Clarendon Press, Oxford, U.K.
