Analysis of Titles and Readers?
For Title Generation Centered on the ReadersYasuko Senda??
and Yasusi Sinohara?
?Communication & Information Research LaboratoryCentral Research Institute of Electric Power Industry, Japan?Department of Computational Intelligence and Systems ScienceTokyo Institute of Technology, Japan{senda, sinohara}@criepi.denken.or.jpAbstractThe title of a document has two roles, to givea compact summary and to lead the reader toread the document.
Conventional title gener-ation focuses on finding key expressions fromthe author?s wording in the document to givea compact summary and pays little attentionto the reader?s interest.
To make the title playits second role properly, it is indispensable toclarify the content (?what to say?)
and word-ing (?how to say?)
of titles that are effective toattract the target reader?s interest.
In this arti-cle, we first identify typical content and wordingof titles aimed at general readers in a compar-ative study between titles of technical papersand headlines rewritten for newspapers.
Next,we describe the results of a questionnaire sur-vey on the effects of the content and wordingof titles on the reader?s interest.
The survey ofgeneral and knowledgeable readers shows bothcommon and different tendencies in interest.1 IntroductionThe title is expected to play two roles.
One is togive the reader a very compact summary of thedocument, and the other is to attract the targetreader?s interest and lead the reader to read thedocument.
It is preferable that a title plays bothroles, because the reader may be disappointedwith a gap between the title and the documentif the title plays the former role poorly, and thereader may not read the document if the titleplays the latter role poorly.
Therefore, it is veryimportant what title is attached to a document.Several techniques have been reportedon generating titles (Jin and Hauptmann,2000)(Berger and Mittal, 2000), and they focuson the former role, that is, to give a compactsummary.
The main approach is to find a fewkeywords from the document by calculatingthe importance of each word in the document.This approach, incidentally, is similar to mosttext summarization techniques.
The selectedkeywords or title strongly reflect the author?swordings.
In other words, this approach is an?author-centered approach?.
In some cases, thetitle generated by this approach might play thelatter role poorly and fail to get the reader?sinterest.To make generated titles play their latter roleproperly, it is not sufficient to look into onlythe author?s document.
It is important to alsopay more attention to the reader.
It is neces-sary in the ?reader-centered approach?
to clar-ify the features of the reader?s attention, thatis, the relationship between the reader?s atten-tion and the content and wording of the title.Based on this knowledge, it will be possible toextract information from the document that ismore attractive to the reader than the author?skey expressions and to include it in the gener-ated title.Our first goal is to clarify the kind of contentand wording that are key to getting the reader?scomprehension, interest in, and positive feel-ing toward the document.
For this purpose, wefirst conducted a comparative study on the ti-tles of technical papers and headlines rewrittenfor newspapers to identify the typical contentand wording of titles aimed at general readers.We then conducted a questionnaire survey onthe effects of different content and wording oftitles on different kinds of readers?
interest.The following sections are as follows: section2 describes the comparative study and its re-sults, section 3 and 4 explain the details andthe results of our questionnaire survey, and sec-tion 5 relates our conclusion and future work.2 Comparison between Paper Titlesand Newspaper HeadlinesTo identify the typical content and wording oftitles aimed at general readers, we conducteda comparative study on the Japanese titles ofresearch papers and the headlines of Japanesenewspaper articles describing the correspondingtechnology.We first divided the titles and headlines intoseveral syntactic components (text segments)and assigned each component a syntactic func-tion tag, such as ?P(urpose of development)?and ?M(ethod for realization)?, and then com-paratively analyzed the expression of paper titleand headlines on the basis of each component.2.1 Overview of Collected DocumentsTable 1 shows the outlines of collected docu-ments, including research papers (articles andtechnical reports) and newspaper articles (fromthree trade newspapers and one general newspa-per).
The Japanese titles and headlines were re-trieved from a document database at a researchinstitute.
They cover science and technology atlarge.We identified one or a few technical papersclosely related to about 90% of the headlines.2.2 Syntactic Function TagsWe found that most text segments of the col-lected titles and headlines could be classifiedinto the following syntactic function tags.
Here,we define each syntactic function tag and de-scribe the tagging process we used in the anal-ysis. B(ehavior): Behavior is expressed by a ver-bal noun or verb.
For example, in the title?Development of an Exploration System ofBuried Cables?, the word ?exploration?
de-scribes the main behavior or action of thedeveloped technology and is assigned the tag?B?. O(bject): The object is a noun phrase in theobjective case of the verbal noun of behav-ior ?B?.
In the above example, the compoundnoun ?buried cables?
is assigned the tag ?O?. T(echnology type): The words assigned thetag ?T?
(echnology type) are very restrictedand include such words as ?system?, ?model?and ?method?.
They express the form of thedeveloped technology. P(urpose): The purpose of development isusually expressed by a noun phrase followinga preposition, such as ?for?
(?no tame-ni/no?in Japanese).
(e.g., ?for power distributioncables under pavements?
) M(ethod): The tag ?M?
stands for themethod for realization and is expressed by anoun phrase following a preposition, such as?by?
(?ni yori?
in Japanese).
(e.g., ?by un-derground radar?
) S(trong point): ?S?
stands for the advantageor merit of the developed technology.
It isusually expressed by an adjective or adverbphrase.
(e.g., ?highly accurate?
). D(evelopment): ?D?
stands for the expres-sion that frequently appears in paper titlesand headlines, such as ?the development of?,?the evaluation of?, and ?a study on?. E(t alia): There are several text segmentsthat do not fall into the above seven cat-egories.
They appear mainly in newspaperheadlines.
Two examples are names of devel-opment organizations and descriptions of theissue for practical use of the technology.We excluded the two tags ?D?
and ?E?
in acomparative analysis because they do not di-rectly relate to the content of the developedtechnology.2.3 Tagging ProcessAs for paper titles (in Japanese), we dividedthem semiautomatically according to the follow-ing patternP?
M?
S?
O S?
B S?
T?
D?
(Each alphabet means syntactic function tag.???
means ?either zero times or one time?.
)using the ?ChaSen?
Japanese morphological an-alyzer (Asahara and Matsumoto, 2000) and syn-tactic clues (such as word order, syntactic cate-gory and specific prepositions).
The results arereviewed and errors are manually corrected.As for headlines, automatic tagging is difficultbecause of the frequent use of verbal omissionsand inversion.
Therefore, we manually dividedthe headlines.
In order to improve the preci-sion of human tagging as highly as possible, thehuman tagger divided them according to the fol-lowing procedure.1.
Find the verbs (or verbal nouns).Table 1: Features of Documents Used in the Comparison of Their Titles or HeadlinesKind of Target Author Publication Number ofDocuments Reader Date Documents1 Article Researcher Researcher ?89?
?00 14642 Technical Report General Researcher ?80?
?00 2861?
Reader3 Trade on the Power Industry 5314 Newspaper on Technology General Newspaperman ?88?
?98 3135 on the Economy Reader 2036 General Newspaper 364Table 2: Components Included in the Title of Technical PapersEach Syntactic Compo-nent?s FunctionSyntactic Cat-egorySpecific Expression orPrepositionFrequencyB Behavior of the Technology Verbal Noun - > 80%O Object of the Behavior Noun Phrase Japanese particle ?wo?
> 80%M Method for Realizing Noun Phrase Japanese expression ?ni yori?,etc.< 30%(such as ?by?
in English)S Strong Point Adjective/AdverbPhrase- < 30%P Purpose of Development Noun Phrase Japanese expression ?no tameni/no?, etc.< 30%(such as ?for?
in English)T Technology type Noun - 58%D Development Noun Japanese expression ?no kai-hatsu?, etc.
(such as ?development of?)2.
Determine the verb (or verbal noun) whichcorresponds to ?B?
using syntactic and se-mantic clues (such as special prepositions andsemantic modification relations).3.
Identify the other components which modify?B?
using the clues used in the above step 2.2.4 Comparative AnalysisWe analyzed the results of the above tagging inthe following two ways.1.
The difference in the frequency of the six maincomponents with tag B(ehavior), O(bject),M(ethod), S(trong point), P(urpose) andT(echnology type) in paper titles and head-lines.2.
The difference in the expression of the samesyntactic components in paper titles andheadlines.2.5 Obligatory and OptionalComponentsThe last column in Table 2 indicates the fre-quency of the occurrence of each tag in titlesand headlines.
The components (text segments)with tags ?B?
, ?O?, and ?T?
appear more than80%, 80%, and 58%, respectively, in titles andheadlines 1 .
We call these high-frequency com-ponents ?obligatory component?
and the othercomponents with ?P?, ?M?, and ?S?, ?optionalcomponents?
.2.5.1 Obligatory ComponentsObligatory components are important becausethey are essential in reporting the substance ofthe technology to the reader.By comparing the expression of the obligatorycomponents (labeled ?T?, ?B?, and ?O?
), wecategorized the difference of the expression intotwo points.
One is that technical jargons areused in paper titles while plain terms are usedin headlines to express the same thing.
Theother is that in the obligatory component thetitle explains the concrete content of the tech-1?B?
and ?O?
appear 100% in the paper titles and80% in the headlines because verbal omissions sometimesoccur in newspaper headlines.nology while the headline expresses the purposeof the technology, which general readers can un-derstand.In other words, we identified two expressingtechniques of newspapermen. Instead of using technical jargons, the plainsynonymous terms are used. Instead of expressing what the technologydoes, they express what the purpose of thetechnology is.An example of the former in English is as fol-lows:Title: Method to Shorten Radioactive Half-lifeHeadline: Method to Shorten the Duration of Ra-diationAn example of the latter is as follows:Title: Method to Shorten Radioactive Half-lifeHeadline: Method to Shorten Storage Period ofRadioactive WasteThe expression patterns typical in obligatorycomponents are summarized in Table 3.
It isarranged from the two viewpoints of ?what tosay?
and ?how to say?.2.5.2 Optional ComponentsBy comparing the expression of the optionalcomponents, in the ?M?
component we foundthat technical jargons are frequently used in pa-per titles while plain terms are used in head-lines.
Moreover, by analyzing the frequencyof component combinations, we found that thecombination of optional components with ?M?and ?S?
is seldom used in any title or headline.We also found that the use of ?M?
in titles ismore frequent than in headlines while the de-scription of the advantages (?S?)
in headlinesis five times more frequent than in titles.
Theanalysis suggests that the description of ?M?found in paper titles are omitted in headlinesand the description of advantages (?S?)
are usedin headlines.The expressing techniques we identified are asfollows: Instead of using technical jargons, the plainsynonymous terms are used in the ?M?
com-ponent. Instead of expressing the method of realizingthe technology, they express the advantage(?S?)
of the technology.An example of the former in English is as fol-lows.Title: Method to Shorten Storage Period of Ra-dioactive Waste by Metallic Fuel FBRHeadline: Method to Shorten Storage Period ofRadioactive Waste by BurnoutAn example of the latter is as follows:Title: Method to Shorten Storage Period of Ra-dioactive Waste by Metallic Fuel FBRHeadline: Method to Shorten Storage Period ofRadioactive Waste by 1/10000The expression patterns typical in optionalcomponents are summarized in Table 4.
Thetable is also arranged from the two viewpointsof ?what to say?
and ?how to say?, as in Table3.3 Questionnaire SurveyIn this section, we explain the details of ourquestionnaire survey.3.1 Viewpoint of the SurveyWe assume that the factors which affect thereader?s impression of a title which expressesnewly developed technology are the following:F1 Mode of expression for titles (in otherword, the expression patterns)F2 Whether or not the reader has an interestin the technical fieldF3 The reader?s level of expertise in the tech-nical fieldTherefore, in order to clarify what kind ofimpression the title based on each expressionpattern (F1) gives the reader, we should inves-tigate how the impressions that each reader whodiffers in F2 and F3 receives change with eachexpression pattern.
We then prepared our ques-tionnaire survey according to the following pro-cedures.1.
Select the technical fields for the survey (weselected three fields: electric transmission,architectural engineering, and environmentalscience).2.
Categorize the respondents by their interestin each technical field and their expertise inthat field.3.
Generate titles describing new technologies inthe three technical fields by using expressionpatternsTable 3: Expression Patterns in Obligatory ComponentsWhat to Pattern 1 Pattern 2say (What the technology does) (What the purpose of thetechnology is)How to Pattern 1.1 Pattern 1.2 Pattern 2.0say (Using technical jargon) (in plain terms) (in plain terms)T(ype) Method Method MethodB(ehavior) to Shorten to Shorten to ShortenO(bject) Radioactive Half-life the Duration of Radiation Storage Period of Ra-dioactive WasteTable 4: Expression Patterns in Optional ComponentsWhat to Pattern 3 Pattern 4say (What the method of realizing the technology is) (What the strong pointof the technology is)How to Pattern 3.1 Pattern 3.2 Pattern 4.0say (Using technical jargon) (in plain terms) (in plain terms)T(ype) Method Method MethodB(ehavior) to Shorten to Shorten to ShortenO(bject) Storage Period of Ra-dioactive WasteStorage Period of Ra-dioactive WasteStorage Period of Ra-dioactive WasteM(ethod) by Metallic Fuel FBR by BurnoutS(trong Point) by 1/100004.
Draw up a questionnaire which asks the re-spondents what kind of impression they hadwhen they read each generated title.In the following three subsections, we explainthe details of the above procedures step 2, 3 and4, in order.3.2 Categorization of RespondentsIn order to categorize the respondents by theirinterest in each technical field and their exper-tise of that field, we asked the respondents twoquestions in the preliminary questionnaire.One asked them if they were con-cerned/unconcerned with one of the threetechnical fields, and the other asked themabout their main source of information (threeoptions: general newspaper, trade newspaper,and academic journal, were given, if they wereconcerned).We categorized them into two types (?Un-concerned?
and ?Concerned?)
by the formerquestion.
We then categorized ?Concerned?into three types (?Commoner?, ?Engineer?
and?Researcher?, whose main sources of informa-tion are general newspaper, trade newspaperand academic journal in turn.)
by the lat-ter question.
We labeled ?Unconcerned?
andthree types of ?Concerned?
(?Commoner?, ?En-gineer?
and ?Researcher?)
as readership.
Table5 shows the number of respondents by reader-ship.3.3 Titles Prepared for OurQuestionnaireIn this section, we explain the method for com-posing the titles used in the questionnaire.
Theprocedure for composing the titles follows.1.
Select three new technologies in each of thethree technical fields, which were developedin a research institute.2.
Retrieve the phrases of titles and headlinesconcerning each technology, from the docu-ment database of the institute, that corre-spond to each expression pattern.3.
Combine the phrases to compose twelve ti-tles per each technology, using three types ofobligatory component expression pattern ofby four types of optional component expres-sion pattern (including a pattern without op-tional components).
The total number of thetitles per one field is 36 (twelve titles by threefields).Table 5: Number of RespondentsUnconcerned ConcernedCommoner Engineer ResearcherElectric Transmission 151 114 69 48Architectural Engineering 168 115 62 45Environmental Science 108 153 71 53We divided thirty six titles per each field intofour groups (each group consists of nine titles).The breakdown of the nine titles is three typesof obligatory component expression pattern bythree types of optional component expressionpattern.
We randomly divided the respondentsof each readership into four groups and thenasked four groups of the respondents about theimpression of four groups of the titles respec-tively.3.4 Contents of Our QuestionnaireIn order to investigate whether each prepared ti-tle is effective in getting each readership?s com-prehension, positive feelings, and interest, weasked the respondents the following questionsin turn. Do you think the title is comprehensible? Do you feel positive toward the technologyafter reading this? Do you want to know more about the tech-nology?3.5 MethodRespondents to the questionnaire were the staffof a research institute and monitors of a market-ing research firm.
We asked them to answer ourquestionnaire on a Web page which is preparedfor this survey.4 Difference in ImpressionAccording to ObligatoryComponent Expression PatternIn this section, we report on the analysis ofthe correlation between the obligatory compo-nent expression pattern in titles and each read-ership?s impression of the titles.Figure 1 shows the graph of the percentage oftitles regarded as ?comprehensible?
by the re-spondents with each readership using each ex-pression pattern.
Figure 2 and 3 also show theones regarded as ?evoked positive feelings?, ?in-teresting?
respectively.
We also made a 3x2100%80%60%40%20%1.
Unconcerned2.
Commoner3.
Engineer4.
Researcher0%1.1 1.2 2.0Content ofTechnologyusing Tech-nical JargonContent ofTechnologyin PlainTermsPurpose ofTechnologyin PlainTermsWhat to sayHow to sayFigure 1: Percentage of Titles That Re-spondents Regard as Comprehensible100%80%60%40%20%0%4.
Researcher1.
Unconcerned2.
Commoner3.
Engineer1.1 1.2 2.0Content ofTechnologyusing Tech-nical JargonContent ofTechnologyin PlainTermsPurpose ofTechnologyin PlainTermsWhat to sayHow to sayFigure 2: Percentage of Titles That Re-spondents Regard as Able to Evoke Pos-itive Feelings100%80%60%40%20%4.
Researcher1.1 1.2 2.00%1.
Unconcerned2.
Commoner3.
EngineerContent ofTechnologyusing Tech-nical JargonContent ofTechnologyin PlainTermsPurpose ofTechnologyin PlainTermsWhat to sayHow to sayFigure 3: Percentage of Titles that Re-spondents Regard as InterestingTable 6: Results of the Chi-square Test and Cramer?s V(In this table, ?Chi-square?
means the significant level tested by the Chi-square,and ?Cramer?s?
means the value calculated by Cramer?s V.)Unconcerned ConcernedCommoner Engineer ResearcherComprehensible Chi-square 1% 1% 1% 1%Cramer?s 0.62 0.59 0.38 0.43Able to Evoke Chi-square 1% 1% 1% 1%Positive Feelings Cramer?s 0.45 0.45 0.22 0.24Interesting Chi-square 1% 1% 1% 5%Cramer?s 0.27 0.35 0.22 0.1contingency table (expression patterns ?
yes/noanswer on impressions) for each impression andeach readership and calculated the significancelevel of the ?2-test and the Cramer?s V 2.Because all significance levels in Table 6 areunder 5%, it is confirmed that there exists asso-ciations among expression patterns and impres-sions for each readership.However, the strength of the associations islow as for the respondents with readership ?en-gineer?
or ?researcher?, who have expertise, be-cause of lower values of Cramer?s V, while thestrength of the association is high as for thosewho has readership ?unconcerned?
or ?com-moner?
because of higher values of V.Because all graphs slope up from left to rightin Figures 1, 2 and 3, the expression pattern2.0 (expressing what the purpose of the tech-nology is) is the most effective to make a titleimpressive (more precisely, regarded as ?com-prehensible?, ?evoked positive feelings?
and ?in-teresting?)
for readers with most of readership,especially the ?unconcerned?
readers or ?com-moner?.
As for the readers with expertise, othertypes of expression patterns such as 1.1 or 1.2should also be considered because of their flatterslopes.5 Conclusion and Future WorkWe emphasized the need for title generationcentered on the reader and identified the typicalcontent and wording of titles aimed at generalreaders by conducting a comparative study onpaper titles and headlines.
Moreover, we ver-2V =?X2/N(k ?
1) where N = total number ofcases in the table; k = number of rows or columns,whichever is smaller.
Cramer?s V ranges 0 to 1 where0 means that the two value variables are perfectly unre-lated and 1 means that they are perfectly related.ified the effects of different content and word-ing of titles.
As a result, titles using expres-sion pattern 2.0 (expressing what the purposeof the technology is) in obligatory component isthe most effective in getting the general reader?scomprehension, positive feelings, and interest.However, the more expertise in a technical fieldthe reader has, the less the reader tends to beinfluenced.In future work, we will verify the differencein impression according to optional componentexpression patterns by analyzing the results ofour questionnaire survey.
We plan to establishthe method for generating a title by extract-ing phrases from the body text and combiningthem, which correspond to the expression pat-tern which is effective in getting target reader?sinterest.AcknowledgementsThe authors would like to express our gratitudeto Dr. Manabu Okumura of Tokyo Institute ofTechnology for his valuable suggestions to im-prove our research and anonymous reviewers fortheir suggestions to improve our paper.ReferencesMasayuki Asahara and Yuji Matsumoto.
2000.
Ex-tended models and tools for high-performancepart-of-speech tagger.
In Proceedings of COLING2000, pages 113?120.A.L.
Berger and V.O.
Mittal.
2000.
Ocelot: A sys-tem for summarizing web pages.
In Proc.
of the23rd Annual International ACM-SIGIR Confer-ence on Research and Development in Informa-tion Retrieval, pages 144?151.Rong Jin and Alex G. Hauptmann.
2000.
Title gen-eration for spoken broadcast news using a trainingcorpus.
In Proc.
of the 6th International confer-ence on Spoken Language Processing(ICSLP).
