An Agent-based Approach to Chinese Named Entity RecognitionShiren Ye Tat-Seng Chua Liu JiminSchool of Computing, National University of Singapore,Singapore, 117543yesr@comp.nus.edu.sg chuats@comp.nus.edu.sg Liujm@comp.nus.edu.sgAbstractChinese NE (Named Entity) recognition isa difficult problem because of theuncertainty in word segmentation andflexibility in language structure.
This paperproposes the use of a rationality model in amulti-agent framework to tackle thisproblem.
We employ a greedy strategy anduse the NE rationality model to evaluateand detect all possible NEs in the text.
Wethen treat the process of selecting the bestpossible NEs as a multi-agent negotiationproblem.
The resulting system is robustand is able to handle different types of NEeffectively.
Our test on the MET-2 testcorpus indicates that our system is able toachieve high F1 values of above 92% on allNE types.1.
IntroductionNamed entity (NE) recognition is a fundamentalstep to many language processing tasks.
It was abasic task of the Message UnderstandingConference (MUC) and has been studiedintensively.
Palma & Day (97) reported thatperson (PER), location (LOC) and organization(ORG) names are the most difficult sub-tasks ascompared to other entities as defined in MUC.This paper thus focuses only on the recognitionof PER, LOC and ORG entities.Recent research on NE recognition has beenfocused on the machine learning approach, suchas the transformation-based learning (Aberdeen95), hidden Markov model (Bikel et al 97),decision tree (Sekin et al 98), collocationstatistics (Lin 98), maximum entropy model(Borthwick 99), and EM bootstrapping(Cucerzan & Yarowsky 99).
Other than English,several recent works examined the extraction ofinformation from Spanish, Chinese, andJapanese (Isozaki 01).
Most approaches forChinese NE recognition used handcrafted rules,supplemented by word or character frequencystatistics.
These methods require a lot ofresources to model the NEs.
Chen et al (98)used 1-billion person name dictionary andemployed mainly internal word statistics with nogeneralization.
Yu et al (98) employed acommon framework to model both the contextand information residing within the entities, andperformed rule generalization using POS(part-of-speech) and some semantic tags.
Asimilar system is also reported in Luo & Song(01).Chinese NE recognition is much more difficultthan that in English due to two major problems.The first is the word segmentation problem(Sproat et al 96, Palmer 97).
In Chinese, there isno white space to delimit the words, where aword is defined as consisting of one or morecharacters representing a linguistic token.
Wordis a vague concept in Chinese, and Palmer (97)showed that even native speakers could onlyachieve about 75% agreement on ?correct?segmentation.
As word segmentation is the basicinitial step to almost all linguistic analysis tasks,many techniques developed in English NLPcannot be applied to Chinese.Second, there is no exterior feature (such as thecapitalization) to help identify the NEs, whichshare many common characters with non-NE (orcommon words).
For example, while ?
isnormally associated with the country China, itcould also mean the concepts in, at or hit; and?normally refers to the surname Zhang, but it alsomeans the concepts open, sheet or spread.Moreover, proper names in Chinese may containcommon words and vice versa.Because of the above problems, the use ofstatistical and heuristic rules commonly adoptedin most existing systems is inadequate to tacklethe Chinese NE recognition problem.
In thispaper, we consider a new approach of employinga rationality model in a multi-agent framework.The main ideas of our approach are as follows.First, we use an NE rationality measure toevaluate the probability of a sequence of tokensbeing a specific NE type, and adopt a greedyapproach to detect all possible NEs.
Second, wetreat the process of selecting the best NEs amonga large set of possibilities as a multi-agentnegotiation problem.
We test our overallapproach on the MET-2 test set and the system isable to achieve high F1 values of over 92% on allNE types.
The results are significantly betterthan most reported systems on MET-2 test set.The rest of the paper describes the details of ourrationality-based and multi-agent negotiationapproach to detect and refine NEs.2.
Rationality Model for NE Detection2.1 Named Entity and Its tokens FeatureFor clarity and without lost of generality, wefocus our discussion mainly on PER entity.
Theproblems and techniques discussed areapplicable to LOC and ORG entities.
Weconsider a simple PER name model comprisingthe surname followed by the first-name.
Giventhe presence of a surname (as cue-word) in atoken sequence, we compute the likelihood ofthis token playing the role of surname and thenext token as the first-name.
The pair could berecognized as PER only if both tokens arelabeled as positive (or of the right types) asshown in Table 1.
If either one of both of thetokens are evaluated negatively, then the pairwill not be recognized as PER based on themodel defined above.Sentence PER?
Label Remarks??????
Y ?
(+) ?(+)...
invite Zhang Feito speak ...??????
N ?
(-) ?(-)?
a piece of airlineticket ???????
?
?
(+) ?
(-) //Illegal PER????
* ?
?
(-) ?
(+) //Illegal PER* Strictly, ???
and Mr. Zhang are not really person names.They are references to person names and should be detected viaco-reference.Table 1: An example of NE and non-NEAlthough the example depicted in Table 1 is verysimple, the same idea can be extended to themore complex NE Types for ORG and LOCs.The number of tokens in a NE may vary from 2in PER to about 20 for ORG.
One constraint isthat the sequencing of tokens and their labelsmust be consistent with the respective NE type.Also, there are grammatical rules governing thecomposition of different NE type.
For example,LOC may consist of a sequence of LOCs; andORG may include PER and/or LOC on its left.Thus by considering one pair of tokens at a time,and by extending the token sequence to theadjacent token one at a time, we can drawsimilar conclusion as that depicted in Table 1 forcomplex NE types.2.2 The Rationality ComputationIf we know the probability distribution of eachtype of token in a window, NE recognition isthen the procedure of evaluating the rationalityor certainty of a sequence of tokens with respectto a NE type.
Motivated by the results in Table 1we view NE recognition as a special coloringproblem.
Initially, all the tokens in the corpus areconsidered as a sequence of White balls.
Given achain of tokens appears in a NE window, wewant to use the probability distribution of thesetokens to re-paint some of the white balls todifferent colors.
A sequence of appropriatelycolored balls would induce an appropriate NE.For simplicity, we again focus on PER NE typewith 2 tokens.
The surname token will becolored red and first-name blue.
We assume thatthe number of PER names in the corpus is N,and the rest of tokens is M. Because there are Nsurname and N first-name tokens in the corpus,the total number of tokens is M+2N.
Hence themarginal probability of PER name isPr(PER)=N/(2N+M) .Red  Blue WhiteFormat Pr.
Format Pr.
Format Pr.Red aRbR 0 aRbB 1 aRbW 0Blue aBbRN/(N+M) aBbB 0 aBbWM/(N+M)White aWbRN/(N+M) aWbB 0 aWbWM/(N+M)Note: Red ?
Surname; Blue ?
First-name; White - OthersTable 2: Possibility combination of neighboringtokens within the corpus for PERTable 2 shows the possible relationshipsbetween the red and blue balls for the PER NEtype by  considering the grammer that thesurname must be followed by a first-name in aformal PER.
As we only permit the token pairfor PER to be labeled as a red ball followed by ablue ball, the following sequences are notpossible under our model: (a) a red (or blue) ballfollows by itself; (b) a red ball follows by whiteball; and (c) a white ball follows by the blue ball.Thus aRbR (a red follows by a red), aRbW, aBbB,and aWbB are illegal combinations.Given a pair of tokens a and b in the corpus,they are labeled as surname |aR| and |bR| times, asfirst-name |aB| and |bB| times, and as non-PER|aW| and |bW| times respectively.
The expectedvalue of a token sequence ab representing a PERwhen a is red and b is blue is:| | | | | || | | | B R BR B Rb a ba b aN N?= ?
=  (1)The expected value of the cases when the tokenpair ab is not a PER name is the sum of expectedvalues of four cases: aBbR, aBbW, aWbR, aWbW (seeTable 2), which after simplification, is given by:| | | | | | | | | || | | | | | | | | | | || | | |(| | | |) (| | | |)(2)B R B W W R W WR BB W W R W RB RB W R Wa b a b a b a b a ba b a b a ba bN M N M N M N Ma a b bN M= + + +?
?
?
?= + + ++ + + ++ ?
+= +The ratio between the cases when ab is a PERversus when ab is not a PER is:| || |C R BR Bab a bR Ba ba b??
= = ??
?
?     (3)where | | | |;(| | | |) (| | | |)R BR Ba bB W R Wa ba a b b?
= ?
=+ + ;and N MN?
+= .
We call RbRacab and ???
,,the rationality values of tokens ab, a and b ofbeing a PER, red ball or blue ball respectively.On the other hand, the probabilities of a as asurname (red ball) and b as a first-name (blueball) are:| | | |,| | (| | | |) | | (| | | |)R BR Ba bR B W B R Wa bP Pa a a b b b= =+ + + +Thus, ;1 1R BR Ba ba bR Ba bP PP P?
= ?
=?
?
(4)The form of Equation (4) is similar to theconcept of odds likelihood O(h), first introducedin Duda et al (79) as a generic term to denotethe ratio of the probability and converseprobability in the Prospector system, namely:( ) ( )( )(- ) 1- ( )P h P hO hP h P h= =  (5)Eq.
(5) is used in a modified version of theBayes theorem to solve the uncertaintyreasoning problems.
Surprisingly, our approachof rationality ?
for NE with two tokens can bededuced as the product of their odds-likelihood.By linking the concept of odds-likelihood andrationality, we can compute the probability of asequence of tokens being a specific NE type.Since the rationality values of tokens couldvary from 0 to ?, it may incur overflow orunderflow during the rationality evaluation.
Thisis especially so for unknown tokens where theirrationality values will be zero.
To resolve thisproblem, we construct a piecewise function tomap the rationality values from the range [0, ?
]to [?min,?max].
Here we set the parameters?min=0.05 and ?max=50, and ensure that mostrationality values will retain their original valuesafter transformation.2.3 The Context of NEsIn addition to identifying the structuralinformation within the NEs, it is equallyimportant to model the context around the NEs.Context is especially pivotal to language such asthe Chinese or Korean where there is no whitespace and capital characters among the tokens.For PER type, the context tokens are likely to beperson titles and action words.Figure 1: A NE detection windowThus after we have computed the rationalityvalues of possible NEs, we enlarge the analysiswindow to cover both the NE candidate and itscontext.
As shown in Figure 1, the windowconsists of three components: prefix, suffix andthe NE candidate.
If the NE is at the beginningor end of a paragraph, then the correspondingPrefixBoundary of a possibleWindowSuffix??
?
??
??
?
?NEprefix or suffix is set to void.
We can extend therationality computation for an NE to the contextwindow by incorporating both the prefix andsuffix tokens separately.2.4 The Overall ProcedureThe overall procedure for estimating thelikelihood of an NE among a sequence of tokensis as follows.a) Convert prior probability Pr(e) of each tokene to rationality ?(e).
A token e may havemultiple Pr(e) values, each is dependent onthe role token e plays in a possible NE, suchas the probability of being a surname,first-name, prefix, suffix, general token orcue-word.b) At each cue-word position, compute therationality of a possible NE by consideringone pair of tokens at a time, and extending tothe next token on the left or right dependingon the NE type.
The boundaries of PERs areextended forward; while that of ORGs andLOCs are extended backward.
Each extensionwill produce a new NE candidate.
The scopeof the extension is also determined by thetype of NE.
The process terminates when therationality value of the next token falls belowa minimum threshold.c) For all possible NEs, construct the contextwindow and compute its final rationalityvalue within the context window.The process will result in multiple possible NEs,with most NEs overlapping with one another.3.
Multi-Agent Framework for NEConfirmation3.1 Relationships between possible NEsOur greedy approach of identifying all possibleNEs using the rationality model results in oversegmentation of NEs.
Figure 2 shows a list of 80possible NEs detected from a test article in theMET-2 test corpus.
The number of correct NEsin this case is only 13.
These possible NEs relateto each other in a complex way.
The possiblerelationships between them are:a. Overlapping: This is the most common casewhen the tokens of multiple NEs overlap eachother.
Examples include ????????
?and ???????????.
They are bothreasonable ORGs if considered separately.However, only one of them can be true.b.
Repetition: Some possible NEs may repeatthemselves with same or similar tokens.
Forexample, the NE ???????????
?is similar to ??????????????????
in different part of the text.
It meansthat these NEs have same beliefs and couldcooperate to enhance each other?s belief.Figure 2: All possible NEs identified in a test articlec.
Unification: When the tokens of two NEs areadjacent to each other in a sentence, they maybe unified to become a new NE by combiningtheir tokens.
For instance, the NEs ???
?and ????
may be combined to form a newNE ?????
?.
By the way, not allneighboring NEs can be unified because theunification must satisfy the syntactic andsemantic specifications of the language.
Forexample, two adjoining PERs cannot beunified, while it is possible for LOCs.d.
Enumerated name list: This is a commonlanguage construct to present a list of names.An example of such construct is: ?????(??)??
?, ????????
?, and??????????????
?.If we knew the relationships between possibleNEs, we can use this knowledge to modify therationality values of possible NEs.
The firstrelationship (overlapping) is of type competitionwhile the other three are of type supporting.
In acompetition relationship, the rationality values oflosing NEs are decremented, whereas in asupporting relationship, the rationality of thewinning NE can be used to reinforce other NEs.??????????????????????????????????
????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
?a team3.2 Agent-based Reasoning & NegotiationThere is a need to modify the rationality valuesof possible NEs in order to identify the bestpossible NEs.
One way to achieve this is toemploy a decision tree (Sekine 98) to select thebest possible candidates.
However, it is difficultto use the decision tree to handle multiplerelationships between conflicting NEs, and toperform incremental updates of rationalityvalues in situations where the number,distribution and relationships in possible NEs areuncertain.
In this work, we adopt a multi-agentapproach to refine the rationality of possible NEsand vote the best potential NEs.Agents are software entities that perform someoperations on behalf of their users or anotherprograms with some degree of autonomy, and inso doing, employ some knowledge orrepresentation of the user?s goals or desires (Donet al 96).
In our system, we map every possibleNE detected to an agent, which acts as thedeputy of the NE and depicts all its attributes.Following the approach taken in the DBI system,we use the rationality of the NE as the belief,denoted by Br(A), of agent A.
Agents aredivided into Teams (Decker & Lesser 95)according to their contents and positions in thecorpus.
The division of agents into teamsfacilitates the negotiation of agents?
beliefs.The negotiation between agents aims toeliminate underlying conflicts and uncertaintyamong them.
The process of multi-agentnegotiation is carried out as follows.a.
We identify agents involved in an unificationrelationship.
These agents will be unified ifthe constraints of unification are fulfilled.
Thenew agents would inherit the evidences,including the rationality values, of its childagents.b.
We divide the resulting agents into teams.Agents with overlapping tokens will begrouped into same teams, while independentagents will be assigned to different teams.c.
We perform negotiation between agents basedon the type of their relationship.
For agentsthat are in competition relationship (i.e.
thoseoverlapping agents within the same team), weselect the agent with the maximal belief (saidai) as the winner, and decrement the beliefs ofthe rest of Nt agents in the same team by ?
(ai),i.e.Br(aj) = Br(aj) - ?
(ai), for j=1,.. Nt, and j?iFor agents involved in the supportingrelations, we again select the agent with themaximal belief (of say ak) as the winner, butincrement the rest of agents in the same set Skby ?
(ak), i.e.Br(aj) = Br(aj) + ?
(ak), for all j in Sk & j?kd.
Repeat step c until the pre-defined rounds ofnegotiations have been reached.In order to ensure fairness in the negotiationprocess, we limit the amount of beliefadjustment, ?
(ai), during each round ofnegotiation.
If the desired rounds of negotiationis NR, then the amount of adjustment in eachround should be limited to ?(ai)/NR.
NR shouldbe set to allow all agents to have a fair chance toparticipate in the negotiation process.
Here weset NR to 10.At the end of negotiation, only agents whosebeliefs are greater than the threshold are selected.Figure 3 shows the resulting set of NEs derivedfrom the list given in Figure 2.Fig.
3: NEs after agents-based modification4.
The Overall Process of NE RecognitionSince there is no white space between words inChinese, the first essential step is to performpreliminary segmentation.
Here, we adopt agreedy approach of generating all possiblesegmentation from the input text by performingthe dictionary-based look-up using a commonword dictionary.
The common word dictionary isgenerated from the PKU corpus (Yu 99) (seeSection 5.1).Second, we compute the rationality value ofeach token in the context of being a keyword,general word, or as boundary (prefix or suffix)of a specific NE type.??????????????????????????????????
??
??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
????????????????????????????
?Third, we identify all possible NE cue-wordsand use them as seeds of NE candidates.
Weconstruct all possible NEs from the cue-wordpositions through boundary extension andcontext inclusion.Forth, we modify the rationality values of allpossible NEs using the agent-based negotiationmethodology.
The conflicts between possibleNEs will disappear.Fifth, we select NEs with the labels of itscorresponding seed if their rationality values areabove a predefined limit ?.
The value ?
affectsthe balance between recall and precision.5.
Experimental Results and Discussions5.1 The Datasets Used in Our ExperimentsWe use a number of openly available datasetsfor our training and testing, including thePKU-corpus (Yu 99), Hownet (Dong & Dong00), MET2 Chinese resources (Chinchor 02),and two name lists (for foreign and ORG names)collected from the web by using a bootstrappingapproach.
The PKU is a manually tagged corpuscontaining one-month of news report fromChina?s People Daily.
It uses over 30 POS tagsincluding separate tags for surname andfirst-name.
It contains about 37,000 sentenceswith over 106 tokens.
From these resources, wegenerate the following dictionaries and statistics.a.
We use the PKU corpus to build a commonword dictionary by removing all words thatare tagged as NE.
The resulting dictionarycontains 37,025 common words.b.
From the PKU corpus, we compute eachtoken?s distribution information based on itsPOS tags, and if it is an NE, its NE type andits role with respect to the NE.
Altogether, weobtain the distribution information of about37,000 different tokens.c.
We maintain a list of LOCs found in theMET-2 test corpus.
We do not maintain thePER and ORG lists, because theirre-occurrence probabilities are low.d.
We supplement the distribution informationderived in step (b) by incorporating tokensobtained from other resources stated above.The resources we derived are available for downloading at http://www.pris.nus.edu.sg/ie.html5.2 The Experiment and ResultsWe test our resulting model on the MET-2 testcorpus.
Table 3 tabulates the results of oursystem in terms of recall (Rc), precision (Pr) andF1 measures.
In order to demonstrate theeffectiveness of our approach, we perform thetests under 3 different test configurations.a.
We perform the baseline test by simplyperforming name-dictionary look-up.
Noticethat we do not use PER dictionary, and hencethe performance under PER is left blank (*).b.
We extract all possible NEs by using only therationality-based approach where thethreshold ?
is set to 1.1.
If there are conflictsbetween possible NEs, we simply select theNE with the maximal rationality.c.
We employ the agent-based modification inconjunction with the rationality-basedapproach to select the best possible NEs.For comparison purpose, we also list in Table 3the corresponding results reported in Yu et al(98) and Chen et al (98) for the MUC-7 tests.Type NC NP NW NM NS Rc Pr F1Base-line test(a)ORGPERLOC79 3 0 295 0*   * * * *363 84 0 303 2621 98 35.0*  * *54 86 66.0Config(b)ORGPERLOC309 5 28 35 47154 2 7 11 87618 0 29 103 11283 79 81.089 62 73.482 81 81.7Config(c)ORGPERLOC356 2 5 14 21167 1 2 4 9703 0 18 29 5295 93 93.796 93 94.794 91 92.3Resultsof Chenet (98)ORGPERLOC393 0 7 77 44159 0 0 25 56583 0 65 102 19478 83 81.391 74 81.678 69 73.2Resultsof Yu etal.
(98)ORGPERLOC331 0 14 32 25160 0 7 7 74682 0 1 67 8388 89 88.592 66 76.791 89 0.0where Pr = (NC + 0.5*NP)/(NC + NW + NP + NS);Rc = (NC + 0.5*NP)/(NC + NW + NP + NM);F1 = 2*Pr*Rc/(Pr+Rc).and NC gives the number of NEs correctly recognized;NP denotes the number of NEs partially recognized;NW gives the number of NEs incorrectly recognized;NM denotes the number of NEs missed; and finallyNS gives the number of NEs found by the system but notin the tagged list.Table 3: Results of MET2 under different configurationsTable 3 shows that as we apply the rationalitymodel (Config.
b) followed by multi-agentframework (Config.
c), the performance of thesystem improves steadily until it reaches a highperformance of over 92% in F1 value.
In factConfig c results in significant improvementsover Conig b in both precision and recall forallNE types.
This shows that the agent-basedmodification could significantly reduce spuriousand missing NEs.
The performance of ouroverall system is significantly better than bothreported systems as listed in Table 3.To demonstrate the effectiveness of ourapproach on general web-based documents, weperform another informal test to recognize NEson the 100 randomly collected headline newsarticles from the well-known Chinese web sites(www.sina.com.cn, www.sohu.com, www.zaobao.com, www.Chinese times.com).
Thetopics covered in these articles ranging frompolitic, economic, society to sports.
Theinformal test shows that our approach couldperform well on general web-based articles withF1 measures of over 90%.6.
ConclusionChinese NE recognition is a difficult problembecause of the uncertainty in word segmentation.Many existing techniques that requireknowledge of word segmentation, and syntacticand semantic tagging of text cannot be applied.In this paper, we propose a new approach ofemploying a rationality model in a multi-agentframework.
We employ a greedy strategy anduse the NE rationality measures to detect allpossible NEs in the text.
We then treat theprocess of selecting the best possible NEs as themulti-agent negotiation problem.
The resultingsystem is robust and is able to handle differentNE models.
Our test on the MET-2 test corpusindicates that we could achieve high F1 values ofabove 92% on all NE types.We plan to further test our system on alarge-scale test corpus.
We will refine ourtechniques on a wide variety of text corpuses,and apply the bootstrapping technique to tacklethe data sparseness problem.
Finally, we willextend our research to perform relation andinformation extraction in multilingual text.ReferencesBikel D.M., Schwartz R. & Weischedel R.M.
(1999)An Algorithm that Learns What?s in a Name.Machine Learning, 34(1-3), 211-231Borthwick A.
(1999) A Maximum Entropy Approachto Named Entity Recognition.
Ph.D. Thesis, NewYork Univ.Chen H. H., Ding Y. W. Tsai S.C. & Bian, G.W.
(1998)Description of the NTU System used for MET-2.
InMUC-7 Proc.Chinchor N. A.
(2002), http://www.itl.nist.gov/iaui/894.02/related_projects/muc/.Cucerzan S. & Yarowsky D. D. (1999) LanguageIndependent Named Entity Recognition CombiningMorphological and Contextual Evidence.
In Procof 1999 Joint SIGDAT Conference on EmpiricalMethods in NLP & Very Large Corpora, 90-99.Decker K., & Lesser V. (1995) Designing a Family ofCoordination Algorithm, In Proc Of 1st Int?l Conf.on Multiagent Sys, 73-80, Menlo Park, CA, AAAIPress.Don Gilbert, Manny Aparicio, et al(1996) Whitepaper on intelligent agents (IBM), http://activist.gpl.ibm.com:81/WhitePaper/ptc2.htm.Dong Z.D.
& Dong Q.
(2000) HowNet, available athttp://www.keenage.com/zhiwang/e_zhiwang.html.Duda R., Gaschnig J., & Hart P. (1979) Model designin the prospector consultant system for mineralexploration.
In Expert systems in the micro-electronic age, Michie D.
Ed., Edinburgh Univ.Press, Edinburgh, England.Isozaki H. (2001) Japanese Named EntityRecognition Based on a Simple Rule Generator andDecision Tree Learning, In ACL?01, 306-313.Lin D. (1998) Using collocation statistics ininformation extraction.
In MUC-7 Proc.Luo Z.Y.
& Song R. (2001) An Integrated and FastApproach to Chinese Proper Name Recognition inChinese Word Segmentation, In Proc.
of Int?lChinese Computing Conf., Singapore 323-328.Palmer D. D. (1997) A Trainable Rule-BasedAlgorithm for Word Segmentation, In Proc of 35thof ACL & 8th conf.
of EACL, 321-328.Sproat R., Shih C., et al(1996) A StochasticFinite-state Word Segmentation Algorithm forChinese.
Computational Linguistics, 22(3),377-404.Yu S.H., Bai S.H.
& Wu P. (1998) Description of theKent Ridge Digital Labs System Used For MUC-7,1998, In MUC-7 Proc.Yu S.W.
(1999) The Specification and Manual ofChinese Word Segmentation and Part of SpeechTagging.
http:// www.icl.pku.edu.cn/Sekine S. (1998) NYU: Description of The JapaneseNE System Used for MET-2, in MUC-7 Proc.
