Complexity of Event Structure in IE ScenariosSilja Huttunen, Roman Yangarber, Ralph GrishmanCourant Institute of Mathematical SciencesNew York Universityfsilja,roman,grishmang@cs.nyu.eduAbstractThis paper presents new Information Extrac-tion scenarios which are linguistically and struc-turally more challenging than the traditionalMUC scenarios.
Traditional views on eventstructure and template design are not adequatefor the more complex scenarios.The focus of this paper is to show the com-plexity of the scenarios, and propose a way torecover the structure of the event.
First weidentify two structural factors that contributeto the complexity of scenarios: the scatteringof events in text, and inclusion relationshipsbetween events.
These factors cause di?cultyin representing the facts in an unambiguousway.
Then we propose a modular, hierarchi-cal representation where the information is splitin atomic units represented by templates, andwhere the inclusion relationships between theunits are indicated by links.
Lastly, we discusshow we may recover this representation fromtext, with the help of linguistic cues linking theevents.1 IntroductionInformation Extraction (IE) is a technologyused for locating and extracting specic piecesof information from texts.
The knowledge basesare customized for each new topic or scenario,as dened by ll rules that state which facts areneeded for constitution of an extractable event.A scenario is a set of predened facts to be ex-tracted from a large text corpus, such as newsarticles, and organized in output templates.Our experience with customizing our IE sys-tem called Proteus (Grishman, 1997; Grishmanet al, 2002) to new scenarios suggests that thelexical and structural properties of the scenarioaect the performance of the system.
To makean IE systemexible for tasks of varying com-plexity, it is essential to conduct a linguisticanalysis of the texts relating to dierent sce-narios.In this paper, we focus on the Infectious Dis-ease Outbreak scenario (Grishman et al, 2002),and the Natural Disaster scenario (Hirschmanet al, 1999) collectively called the \Nature" sce-narios.
During the customization of the IE sys-tem to the Nature scenarios, we encounteredproblems that did not arise in the traditionalscenarios of the Message Understanding Con-ferences (MUCs).
This included, in particular,delimiting the scope of a single event and orga-nizing the events into templates.We identify two structural factors that con-tribute to the complexity of a scenario: rst, thescattering of events in text, and second, inclu-sion relationships between events.
These factorscause di?culty in representing the facts in anunambiguous way.
We proposed that such eventrelationships can be described with a modular,hierarchical model (Huttunen et al, 2002).The phenomenon of inclusion is widespread inthe Nature scenarios, and the types of inclusionsare numerous.
In this paper we present prelim-inary results obtained from our corpus analysis,with a classication and distribution of inclu-sion relationships.
We discuss the potential forrecovery of these inclusions from text with thehelp of the linguistic cues, of which we showsome examples.This paper will argue that a thorough linguis-tic analysis of the corpus is needed to help recov-ery of the complex event structure in the text.In the next section we give a brief descriptionof the scenarios we are investigating.
In section3 we review the problems of scattering, inclusionand event denition, and propose a method forrepresenting template structure.
In section 4we present examples of the linguistic cues toDisaster Date Location VictimDead Damagetornado Sunday night Georgia one person motelDisease Date Location VictimDead VictimSickEbola since September Uganda 156 people -Table 1: Disaster Event and Disease Eventrecover the complex event structure, followedby discussion in section 5.2 Background2.1 Information ExtractionOur IE system has been previously customizedfor several news topics, as part of the MUCprogram, such as Terrorist Attacks (MUC,1991; MUC, 1992) and Management Succession(MUC, 1995; Grishman, 1995).
Subsequently tothe MUCs, we customized Proteus to extract,among other scenarios, Corporate Mergers andAcquisitions, Natural Disasters and InfectiousDisease Outbreaks.We contrasted the Nature scenarios with theearlier MUC scenarios (Huttunen et al, 2002).The \traditional" template structure is suchthat all the information about the main eventcan be presented within a single template.
Themain events form separate instances, and thereare no links between them.
Management Suc-cession scenario presents a slightly more com-plicated template structure, but it is still possi-ble to present in one template.
The traditionalrepresentation is not adequate to represent thecomplex structure of the Nature scenarios.In the next section, we give a short descrip-tion of the Nature scenarios.2.2 ScenariosFor the Natural Disaster scenario, the taskis to nd occurrences of disasters (earthquakes,storms, etc.)
around the world, as reported innewspaper articles.
The information extractedfor each disaster should include the type of dis-aster, date and location of the occurrence, andthe amount of human or material damage.An example of a Natural Disaster templateis in table 1, extracted from the following newsfragment:\[...] tornadoes that destroyed a Geor-gia motel and killed one person in amobile home Sunday night.
"For the Infectious Disease Outbreak sce-nario, the task is to track the spread of epi-demics of infectious diseases around the world.The system has to nd the name of the disease,the time and location of the outbreak, the num-ber of victims (infected and dead), and type ofvictims (e.g., human or animal).
The next ex-ample is a fragment of a disease outbreak report,and the extracted facts are shown in table 1.\Ebola fever has killed 156 people, [...],in Uganda since September.
"3 Structure of EventsThe complex event structure in Nature scenar-ios is partly due to the fact that the events arereported in a scattered manner in the text.By scattering of events we mean that theircomponents are not close to each other in thetext, and a typical text contains several relatedevents.
This is partly because the articles areoften in a form of an update, where the latestreported damages contribute to the total dam-ages reported earlier, over several locations andover dierent time spans.The example in table 2 illustrates scatteringin the Disease scenario.
It is a fragment of anupdate about a cholera epidemic in Sudan, fromthe World Health Organization's (WHO) webreport.
The locations are highlighted in italicsand the victim counts are in boldface, to showthe scattering.
In this example there are sixseparate mentions|partial descriptions of theevent in text|giving the number of infectedand dead victims, in Sudan, and in two loca-tions within Sudan.
Paragraph (1) reports thenumber of victims in Sudan, 2549 infected, and186 dead.
In paragraph (2), the focus is shiftedto another location in Sudan, and new numbersare reported.
Paragraph (3) gives the respective(0) Meningococcal in Sudan(1) A total of 2 549 cases of meningococcal disease, of which 186 were fatal, was reported to thenational health authorities between 1 January and 31 March 2000.
(2) Bahar aj Jabal State has been most aected to date, with 1 437 cases (including 99 deaths)reported in the Juba city area.
(3) Other States aected include White Nile (197 cases, 15 deaths), [...]Table 2: Example of a Disease Outbreak ReportDisease Location Infected DeadMeningococcal Sudan 2549 186Bahar aj Jabal State 1437 99White Nile 197 15Table 3: Facts from Disease Outbreak Reportnumbers for yet another location in Sudan.
Thementions are summarized in table 3.3.1 Inclusion RelationshipsAs we frequently observe in the Nature scenar-ios, the information in the various mentions intable 2 is overlapping, and the mentions par-tially include each other.For example, the numbers for infected victimsin paragraph (2) and (3), contribute to the totalnumber of infected cases in paragraph (1).
Theextraction system should be able to extract allthe numbers for this text.
The problem is howto group these mentions into a template in anunambiguous and coherent way.
It is impossi-ble to represent an event with overlapping in-formation in a single template, since it consistsof multiple numbers of victims in several areasand several time intervals.For the purpose of handling this phenomenon,we rst introduce a distinction between out-breaks and incidents.
An incident is a short de-scription, or a mention, of one occurrence thatrelates to an outbreak.
It covers a single specicspan of time in a single specic area.
An out-break takes place over a longer period of time,and possibly over wider geographical area: itconsists of multiple incidents.In general, one incident may include others,which give further detailed information.Therefore, we analyze the news fragment intable 2 as containing six incidents, with twotypes of inclusions: rst, inclusion by status,where the dead count contributes to the infectedcount of the same area, and second, inclusion bylocation, where the numbers of infected cases inBahar aj Jabal State, in paragraph (2), and inWhite Nile, in (3), contribute to the infectedcount in Sudan, in paragraph (1).The Natural Disaster scenario poses furthercomplications for this schema.
The scatteringis complicated by the relationship of causation:the main disaster triggers derivative disasters(sub-disasters), which in turn may cause dam-ages that contribute to the overall damage.
Thisis illustrated by the news fragment in table 4,from the New York Times.
Names of disastersare in bold, and the damages are italicized.In table 4, paragraph (1), a disaster includesrain and winds, which causeooding.
In para-graph (3), the human damages caused by snoware included in the total human damages causedby the storm in (2).
The derivative disastersand their damages often take place in several lo-cations, appearing relatively far in the text fromthe rst mention of the main disaster.
The -nal logical representation of the event should besuch that the eects of the sub-disasters couldbe traced back to the main event.The following is a summary of the inclusionrelationships found in the two Nature scenarios: location: e.g, victim count in one city con-tributes to the victim count in the wholecountry. time: e.g.
victim count for an update re-port contributes to the overall victim countsince the beginning of the outbreak. status: dead or sick count is included in(1) A brutal northeaster thrashed the Eastern Seaboard again Thursday with cold, slicing rainand strong winds that causedooding in coastal areas of New Jersey and Long Island.
[...](2) Elsewhere along the East Coast, 19 deaths have been attributed to the storm since it beganon Monday.
(3) The 19 deaths include ve in accidents on snowy roads in Kentucky and two in Indiana.
[...]Table 4: Example of Disaster Reportingthe infected count, as in paragraph (2) oftable 2. victim type or descriptor: e.g., \people" in-cludes \health workers", and \children". disease name (Disease scenario): e.g., thenumber of Hepatitis C cases may be in-cluded in the number of Hepatitis cases. disaster (Disaster scenario): e.g., damagescaused by rain may be included in the dam-ages caused by rain and winds. causation (Disaster scenario): a disastercan trigger derivative disasters.3.2 Type and Distribution of InclusionsTo investigate the extent of inclusions and theirdistribution by type, we analyzed 40 documentsrelated to Nature scenarios.1To conrm the feasibility and applicability ofthis approach, we manually tagged the inclu-sion relationships present in these documents.Table 5 shows the number of incidents found inthe documents, as well as the number and thetypes of inclusion.
There are also multiple in-clusions: e.g., infected health workers in a townin Uganda are included in the total number ofinfected people in the whole country: this is in-clusion by both case-descriptor and location.Multiple inheritance also occurs: in table 2,the deaths in Bahar aj Jabal State contributeto the infected count in that state, as well as tothe total number of deaths in Sudan.
However,in table 5, we show only the inclusion in theimmediately preceding parent.3.3 Hierarchical Template StructureOur proposed solution is to have a separate tem-plate for each incident.
Once we have broken1The training corpus was used to evaluate the per-formance of our IE system on these tasks.
For the Dis-aster scenario we analyzed a total of 14 reports fromNYT, ABC, APW, CNN, VOA and WSJ.
For DiseaseOutbreaks, a total of 26 documents from NYT, Promed,WHO, and ABC.Scenario Disease DisasterDocuments 26 14Words 9 500 6500Incidents 125 112Inclusions 57 81time 6 6location 19 20status 19 1case-descriptor 6 1case-desc/location 3 {disease 1 {causation { 19causation/location { 11causation/time { 3time/location { 7disaster { 5disaster/location { 2damage { 4others 3 2Table 5: Type and Number of Inclusiondown the information into smaller incident tem-plates, the inclusion relationship between themis indicated by event pointers.
This approachmakes it possible to represent the informationin a natural and intuitive way.The nal template for the Infectious Diseasescenario is shown in table 6.
Note that there isa separate slot indicating the parent incident.Disease NameDateLocationVictim NumberVictim DescriptorVictim StatusVictim TypeParent EventTable 6: Infectious Disease TemplateFigure 1: Infectious Disease OutbreakFigure 2: Natural DisasterFigure 1 is a graphical representation of theinclusion relationships among the incidents ex-tracted from the Disease report in table 2.
Thegure shows the main incident with several sub-incidents.
Two of the sub-incidents have, inturn, sub-incidents.
The types of inclusions areshown in the last row.Figure 2 shows a graphical representation ofinclusion by causation in Natural Disaster sce-nario.
The incidents are extracted from ta-ble 4.2There is a causation relationship be-tween the incidents.
It is important to recoverthe long causation chains from the text.As a result, the templates are simple, but2Note that the northeaster is not in causation rela-tionship with storm, which began on Monday.
The dam-ages that the synonymous northeaster caused, are fromthe following Thursday.there are typically many templates per docu-ment.
The separation of incidents aects theprocess of extraction, since we can now focuson looking for smaller atomic pieces rst.
Thenwe must address the problem of linking togetherrelated incidents as a separate problem in theoverall process of IE.4 Linguistic cuesThe process of tracking the inclusion relation-ships between the incidents is not trivial.
Ahuman reader uses the cohesive devices in thetext to construct the connections between partsof text (see e.g., (Halliday and Hasan, 1976; Hal-liday, 1985)).
Finding the relationship betweenincidents may be a less complex task than track-ing cohesion through an entire text or discourse.Our task is limited to nding the cohesive de-vices connecting a small set of pre-dened facts,that may occur nearby within one sentence, orare separated by one or more sentence bound-aries.
Our goal is to locate the cues in the text,and use them to automatically recover these re-lationships.An example of a linguistic cue is in the fol-lowing fragment of an update from table 4:Elsewhere along the East Coast, 19deaths have been attributed to thestorm [...]Elsewhere indicates a shift in the focus fromone location to another and there is probablyno inclusion between the following and immedi-ately preceding mention of the damages.We have identied several linguistic cues thatsignal the presence or absence of an inclusionrelationship between two incidents.
These cuescan be one of following types: Specic lexical items, which can be e.g.,adverbs, verbs, prepositions, connectives.Elsewhere in the previous example impliesthat damages caused by the following dis-aster do not contribute to the damages ofthe immediately preceding disaster. Two expressions in separate incidentswhich are related in the scenario-specicconcept hierarchy, may indicate the pres-ence and also the direction of an inclusion,e.g., health worker is included in people;names of plants, animals and terms refer-ring to human beings, are hyponyms of vic-tim. Locative or temporal expressions that arein a hierarchical relationship in a locationhierarchy or in the implicit time hierarchy,often indicate presence or direction of in-clusion. Elliptical elements create cohesion.
Ellipsisindicates the presence of a parent incidentearlier in the text.
In paragraph (3) of table4, in the parent incident we observe a casedescriptor, deaths, which is elided in thetwo sub-incidents. Anaphora: anaphoric reference usually in-dicates the absence of an inclusion betweentwo incidents, merging into one.
For exam-ple, in table 4, paragraph (3), the 19 deathsis coreferential with 19 deaths caused by thestorm in paragraph (2). Coordination tends to indicate the absenceof inclusion relationship.
For example,when two incidents are conjoined by andand do not share information about loca-tion or time, there is typically no inclusion.However, there are cases where other cuesoverride this general tendency.These cues often do not appear in isolation,and they may interact.We give an example of three lexical items andtheir role as an indicator of inclusion in the In-fectious Disease Outbreak Scenario.
Considerthe preposition with3, the participle includingand the nite verb include.\More than 500 cases of dengue hem-orrhagic fever were reported in Mexicolast year, with 30 deaths, Ruiz said.
"The 30 deaths are included in the 500 cases.The direction of the inclusion is reversed in thefollowing example:"Disease has killed 10 persons, with242 cases having already been re-ported.
"The latter incident includes the former.
Hereadditional cues are provided by the concept hi-erarchy, and the numbers: a smaller numbercannot include a larger one.The following illustrates the participle includ-ing as cue:Ebola fever has killed 156 people, in-cluding 14 health workers, in Ugandasince September.The incidents are connected by including,which also indicates the direction explicitly.
Ad-ditional information is obtained from the case-descriptors, related in the concept hierarchy.The context for such \trigger" words as theyindicate inclusion, is that the trigger appearsbetween two incidents, preceding and preceded3In the case of with we look only at free prepositions,that is, those not bound to a preceding verb (Biber etal., 1999).by a quantied NP4and optional phrases oritems from the concept hierarchy.Q fcase-descriptor j statusg [reportedj get sick j time j location j disease] [,]trigger Q fcase-descriptor j statusgThese triggers can indicate inclusion also in-side a parenthetical phrase, preceding a quanti-ed NP, as in table 2 in paragraph (2).The trigger include (as a nite verb) functionssimilarly, but can also occur between sentences:[...] the Ugandan Ministry of Healthhas reported [...] 370 cases and 140deaths.
This gure includes 16 newconrmed cases in Gulu [...]In our training corpus, when these cue wordsoccurred in this context, they consistently indi-cated an event inclusion relation.5 DiscussionComplexity of a scenario seems to depend ofmultiple factors.
The notion of complexity,however, has not been investigated in greatdepth.
Some research on this was done by(Bagga and Biermann, 1997; Bagga, 1997),classifying scenarios according to di?culty bycounting distances between \components" of anevent in the text.
In this way it attempts to ac-count for variation in performance across theMUC scenarios.Our analysis suggests that the type andamount of inclusion relationships depend onthe nature of the topic.
In such scenarios asManagement Succession and Corporate Acqui-sitions, an event usually occurs at one specicpoint in time.
By contrast, the Nature eventstypically take place across a span of time andspace.
As the event \travels" and evolves, itsmanifestations are reported in a piecewise fash-ion, sometimes on an hour-by-hour basis.An extensive linguistic analysis of the cor-pus is necessary to resolve these complex is-sues.
For evaluation and training, we are build-ing test and training corpora, totaling 70 doc-uments and annotated with inclusion relation-ships.4Here the case descriptor or status can be elided:however, one of quantiers should have a case descriptoror a status.AcknowledgmentsThis research is supported by the Defense AdvancedResearch Projects Agency as part of the Translin-gual Information Detection, Extraction and Sum-marization (TIDES) program, under Grant N66001-001-1-8917 from the Space and Naval Warfare Sys-tems Center San Diego, and by the National ScienceFoundation under Grant IIS-0081962.This paper does not necessarily reect the posi-tion or the policy of the U.S. Government.ReferencesA.
Bagga and A. W. Biermann.
1997.
Analyzingthe complexity of a domain with respect to aninformation extraction task.
In Proc.
10th Intl.Conf.
on Research on Computational Linguistics(ROCLING X).A.
Bagga.
1997.
Analyzing the performance ofmessage understanding systems.
In Proc.
Natu-ral Language Processing Pacic Rim Symposium(NLPRS'97).D.
Biber, S. Johansson, G. Leech, S. Conrad, andE.
Finegan.
1999.
Longman Grammar of Spokenand Written English.
Longman.R.
Grishman, S. Huttunen, and R. Yangarber.
2002.Real-time event extraction for infectious diseaseoutbreaks.
In Proc.
HLT 2002: Human LanguageTechnology Conf., San Diego, CA.R.
Grishman.
1995.
The NYU system for MUC-6, or where's the syntax?
In Proc.
6th MessageUnderstanding Conf.
(MUC-6), Columbia, MD.Morgan Kaufmann.R.
Grishman.
1997.
Information extraction: Tech-niques and challenges.
In M. T. Pazienza, editor,Information Extraction.
Springer-Verlag, LectureNotes in Articial Intelligence, Rome.M.A.K.
Halliday and R. Hasan.
1976.
Cohesion inEnglish.
Longman, London.M.A.K.
Halliday.
1985.
Introduction to FunctionalGrammar.
Edward Arnold, London.L.
Hirschman, E. Brown, N. Chinchor, A. Douthat,L.
Ferro, R. Grishman, P. Robinson, and B. Sund-heim.
1999.
Event99: A proposed event indexingtask for broadcast news.
In Proc.
DARPA Broad-cast News Workshop, Herndon, VA.S.
Huttunen, R. Yangarber, and R. Grishman.
2002.Diversity of scenarios in information extraction.In Proc.
3rd Intl.
Conf.
of Language Resourcesand Evaluation, LREC-2002, Las Palmas de GranCanaria, Spain.1991.
Proc.
3th Understanding Conf.
(MUC-3).Morgan Kaufmann.1992.
Proc.
4th Message Understanding Conf.(MUC-4).
Morgan Kaufmann.1995.
Proc.
6th Message Understanding Conf.(MUC-6).
Morgan Kaufmann.
