Paraphrasing of Chinese UtterancesYujie Zhang?Communications Research Laboratory2-2-2, Hikaridai, Seika-cho, Soraku-gun, Kyoto 619-0289 Japanyujie@crl.go.jpKazuhide YamamotoATR Spoken Language Translation Research Laboratories2-2-2, Hikaridai, Seika-cho, Soraku-gun, Kyoto 619-0288 Japanyamamoto@fw.ipsj.or.jpAbstractOne of the key issues in spoken language trans-lation is how to deal with unrestricted expres-sions in spontaneous utterances.
This researchis centered on the development of a Chineseparaphraser that automatically paraphrases ut-terances prior to transfer in Chinese-Japanesespoken language translation.
In this paper, apattern-based approach to paraphrasing is pro-posed for which only morphological analysis isrequired.
In addition, a pattern constructionmethod is described through which paraphras-ing patterns can be efficiently learned from aparaphrase corpus and human experience.
Us-ing the implemented paraphraser and the ob-tained patterns, a paraphrasing experiment wasconducted and the results were evaluated.1 IntroductionIn spoken language translation one of the keyissues is how to deal with unrestricted expres-sions in spontaneous utterances.
To resolve thisproblem, we have proposed a paraphrasing ap-proach in which the utterances are automati-cally paraphrased prior to transfer (Yamamotoet al, 2001; Yamamoto, 2002).
The paraphras-ing process aims to bridge the gap between theunrestricted expressions in the input and thelimited expressions that the transfer can trans-late.
In fact, paraphrasing actions are often seenin daily communication.
When a listener can-not understand what a speaker said, the speakerusually says it again using other words, i.e., heparaphrases.
In a Chinese-Japanese spoken lan-guage translation system, the pre-processing ofChinese utterances is involved and we attemptto apply a paraphrasing approach.
This paper?
This work was done when the author stayed at ATRSpoken Language Translation Research Laboratories.is focused on the paraphrasing of Chinese utter-ances.Some cases of paraphrasing research with cer-tain targets have been reported.
For example,there has been work on rewriting the sourcelanguage in machine translation with a focuson reducing syntactic ambiguities (Shirai et al,1993), research on paraphrasing paper titleswith a focus on transforming syntactic struc-tures to achieve readability (Sato, 1999), andresearch on paraphrasing Japanese in summa-rization with a focus on transforming a nounmodifier into a noun phrase (Kataoka et al,1999).
We have reported some research onChinese paraphrasing (Zhang and Yamamoto,2001; Zhang et al, 2001; Zong et al, 2001).
Thetechniques of paraphrasing natural languagecan be applied not only to the pre-processingof machine translation but also to informationretrieval and summarization.2 Goals and ApproachIn the pre-processing stage of translation, Chi-nese paraphrasing focuses on(1) transforming the expressions of spoken lan-guage into formal expressions,(2) reducing syntactic and semantic ambigui-ties,(3) generating as many different expressions aspossible in order to include expressions thatcan be translated by the transfer, and(4) paraphrasing the main constituents of theutterance in case the paraphrasing of thewhole utterance has no effect.The aim of paraphrasing types (1), (2) and (4)is to simplify the expressions of utterances, andthat of paraphrasing type (3) is to increase thevariations of utterances.
At present, we focuson paraphrasing types (1), (2) and (3).Paraphrasing is a process that automaticallygenerates new expressions that have the samemeaning as the input sentence.
At first glanceone would think that the problem could be re-solved by separating it into two processes: theparsing process that analyzes the input sentenceand obtains its meaning, and the generationprocess that generates sentences from the ob-tained meaning.
However, this solution is notpracticable for the following reasons.?
At present, the techniques of parsing andsemantics analysis of the Chinese languageare far below the level needed for appli-cation.
When studying spoken language,research on parsing and research on se-mantics analysis are major themes them-selves.
For automatic paraphrasing, weshould first determine what kind of anal-ysis is required and then start to develop aparser or a semantics analyzer.?
Even if meanings can be obtained, goal (3)cannot be achieved if only one sentence isgenerated.
Here, the demand that para-phrasing should generate multiple expres-sions is the most important.
This focus isdifferent from that of conventional sentencegeneration.In fact, the paraphrasing can be conductedat many different levels, for instance, words,phrases, or larger constituents.
Although theparaphrasing of such constituents is probablyrelated to context, it is not true that paraphras-ing is impossible without being able to under-stand the whole sentence (Kataoka et al, 1999).The paraphrasing process encounters the fol-lowing problems.
(i) How to identify objects,i.e., which components of an input sentence willbe paraphrased, (ii) how to generate new sen-tences, and (iii) how to ensure that the gener-ated sentences have the same meaning as theinput sentence.
In order to avoid the large costof syntax and semantics analysis, we proposea pattern-based approach to paraphrasing inwhich only morphological analysis is required.The focus is placed on how to generate as manydifferent expressions as possible and how to getparaphrasing patterns from a paraphrasing cor-pus.Table 1.
Part of the part-of-speech tag set ofthe Penn Chinese TreebankSymbol ExplanationNN common nounNR proper nounPN pronounDT determinerDEC  in a relative-clauseDEG associative M measure wordJJ other noun-modifierVA predicative adjectiveVC VE  as the main verbVV other verbAD adverbP preposition excl.
 and LC localizerCD cardinal numberOD ordinal numberSP sentence-final particleBA  in ba-constructionCC coordinating conjunction3 Paraphrasing PatternThe paraphrase corpus of the spoken Chineselanguage consists of 20,000 original sentencesand 44,480 paraphrases, one original sentencehaving at least two paraphrases (Zhang et al,2001).
The paraphrases were obtained by themanual rephrasing of the original sentences:words may be reordered, some words may besubstituted with synonyms, or the syntacticstructures may be changed.
Such a paraphrasecorpus contains the knowledge of how to gener-ate paraphrases for one sentence.
We intend toget paraphrasing patterns from the corpus.
Bypairing each paraphrase with its correspondingoriginal sentence, 44,480 pairs were obtained.Hereafter, we call such pairs paraphrase pairs.Word segmentation and part-of-speech taggingwere carried out on the paraphrase pairs.
Thepart-of-speech tagger accepted the Penn Chi-nese Treebank tag set, which comprises 33parts-of-speech (Xia, 2000).
A part of the PennChinese Treebank tag set is shown in Table 1.3.1 Extraction of InstancesFor one paraphrase pair, the paraphrase maydiffer from its original sentence in one of thefollowing paraphrasing phenomena: (1) wordorder, (2) substitution of synonyms, and (3)change of syntactic structure.
For most para-phrase pairs, the paraphrases contain a mixtureof the above phenomena.
We need to classifythe paraphrasing phenomena and learn the rela-tive paraphrasing patterns.
In this way, we canrestrict the paraphrasing process to some lan-guage phenomena and summarize the changesin the information of the resultant paraphrases.The following paraphrasing phenomena wereconsidered and related paraphrase pairs wereextracted.3.1.1 Word OrderWord order in the spoken Chinese is com-paratively free.
In the paraphrase corpus,quite a large proportion of the paraphrasesis created by word reordering.
We extractedthe paraphrase pairs in which the morphemenumber of the original sentence is equal to thatof the paraphrase and each morpheme of theoriginal sentence appears in the paraphrase andvice versa.
One example is shown in 3-1.[3?
1] An extracted paraphrase pair.Original:  /VV  /AD  /VV /P  /PN  /VA 	 /SP(Please call me again, could you?
)Paraphrase:  /VV  /AD  /P  /PN /VV  /VA 	 /SPGuided by the extracted paraphrase pair, wecan in fact paraphrase the original sentence byreordering its words according to the word orderof the paraphrase.
The extracted paraphrasepairs of this kind provided instances for learningword order paraphrasing patterns.3.1.2 Negative ExpressionsIn some paraphrase pairs, we observed thatparaphrasing phenomena were related tonegative expressions.
For example, originalsentences include negative words ? (do not)?
or ? (did not)?
, but their correspondingparaphrases appear as affirmative forms with-out these negative words.
This fact impliedthat the sentences could be simplified by delet-ing the negative expressions.
For this purpose,the paraphrase pairs were extracted in whichthe original sentences included the words ??or ??
and the corresponding paraphrases didnot.
One example is shown in 3-2.[3?
2]Original: ?
/VV ?
/AD ??
/VV  /PN/DEG ??
/NN(Do you know my telephone number?
)Paraphrase: ??
/VV  /PN/DEG ?
?/NN 	 /SP3.1.3 Expression of ??The Chinese language has a few grammaticalmarkers.
The particle ??
is one of such mark-ers.
The sentences with the form ?S(subject)V(verb) O(object) C(complement)?
may bechanged into the form ?S  O V C?
byinserting the particle ??
(Zhang and Sato,1999).
The usage of ??
emphasizes theobject by moving it before the verb.
Whenthe particle ??
is in a sentence, it is easierto identify the object.
So the insertion of ??will supply more information about syntacticstructure and reduce syntactic ambiguities.Moreover, paraphrasing the sentences withparticle ??
may be more exact because theidentification of the object is more accurate.We extracted the paraphrase pairs in which theoriginal sentences included the particle ??and the corresponding paraphrases did not.See example 3-3 below.[3?
3]Original:  /DT  /M /NN  /VV /PN  /VV(Could you fill out this form, please.
)Paraphrase:  /VV  /PN  /BA  /DT/M /NN  /VV(Could you make this form filled out, please.
)3.2 Automatic Generalization ofInstancesThen we attempted to generalize the extractedinstances in order to obtain paraphrasing pat-terns.
For each extracted paraphrase pair, theoriginal sentence is generalized to make thematching part of the pattern, and the para-phrase is generalized to make the generationpart of the pattern.
The matching part spec-ifies the components that will be paraphrasedas well as the context conditions.
The genera-tion part defines how to construct a paraphrase.When the constituted pattern is applied to oneinput sentence, if the input matches with thematching part, a new sentence will be generatedaccording to the generation part.In fact, the purpose of generalization is toget a regular expression from the original sen-tence and to get an operation expression con-taining substitutions from the paraphrase.
Asshown in 3-3, both the original sentence and theparaphrase are series of morphemes, and eachmorpheme consists of a part-of-speech and anorthographic expression.
The important thingin paraphrasing is to maintain meaning.
Towhat extent the series of morphemes will begeneralized depends on each paraphrasing pair.First, parts-of-speech keep the syntactic infor-mation and therefore they should be kept.
Sec-ond, orthographic expressions of verbs, auxil-iary verbs, adverbs, etc., are important in de-ciding the main meaning of the sentence andtherefore they should also be kept.
The ortho-graphic expressions of other categories, such asnouns, pronouns and numerals, can be general-ized to an abstract level by replacing each or-thographic expression with a wild card.The pattern generalized from 3-3 is illus-trated in 3-4.
The left part is the matching partand the right part is the generation part.
Thelexical information may be an orthographicexpression or a variable represented by symbolXi.
Xi in the matching part is in fact awild card, which means it can match withany orthographic expression in the matchingoperation.
Xi in the generation part defines asubstitution operation.[3?
4] A generalized pattern./DT  /M X1/NN  /VV X2/PN  /VV?
 /VV X2/PN  /BA  /DT  /M X1/NN /VVHowever, we found two problems in this kindof automatic generalization.
The first is that re-strictions on the patterns generalized from longsentences are too specific at the lexical level.
Infact, the clauses and noun phrases used as modi-fiers have no effect on the considered paraphras-ing phenomena and can be generalized further.The second is that some orthographic expres-sions with important meanings are generalizedto wild cards, for instance, the numeral ?
(how many)?
may imply that the sentence isinterrogative.
Therefore, a method is neededto prevent some orthographic expressions frombeing automatically replaced with wild cards.3.3 Semi-Automatic Generalization ofInstancesSpecifying which morphemes should be general-ized and which orthographic expressions shouldbe kept requires human experience.
In order tointegrate human experience into automatic gen-eralization, we developed a semi-automatic gen-eralization tool.
The tool consists of descriptionsymbols and a transformation program.
Thedescription symbols are designed for people todefine generalization information on instances,and the transformation program automaticallytransforms the defined instances into patterns.Three description symbols are defined as fol-lows.
[ ]: This symbol is followed by a numeraland is used to enclose a sequence of mor-phemes.
The enclosed part is a syntac-tic component, e.g., a noun phrase or aclause.
Except for the part-of-speech of thelast morpheme, the enclosed part will bereplaced with a variable.
In the Chineselanguage, the syntactic property of a se-quence of words is most likely reflected inthe last word, so we keep the part-of-speechof the last morpheme.
The enclosed partsin the original sentence and the paraphrasedenoted by the same numerals will be re-placed with the same variables.
{ }: This symbol is used to enclose a mor-pheme.
The orthographic expression of themorpheme will be kept.
In this way, thelexical information of morphemes can beutilized to define the context.
A few or-thographic expressions can be defined in-side one symbol so that words that can beparaphrased in the same way can be storedas one pattern.?
?
: This symbol is used to enclose a mor-pheme.
The orthographic expression of themorpheme will be replaced with a variable.In this way, the orthographic expressions ofverbs or adverbs can also be generalized.The usage of the symbols is explained in 3-5 and3-6.
Example 3-5 is a paraphrase pair in whichdescription symbols are defined.
Example 3-6 isthe paraphrasing pattern generalized from 3-5.[3?
5] A defined instance.Original:  /VV  /VV  /PN  /CD ?/M?
[ /NN/DEG]1 [ /NN  /NN]2(Could you give me two copies of the Japanesepamphlet, please?
)Paraphrase: [ /NN/DEG]1 [ /NN /NN]2  /VV  /VV  /PN  /CD ?/M?[3?
6] The generalized pattern. /VV  /VV X1/PN X2/CD X3/M Y1/DEGY2/NN ?
Y1/DEG Y2/NN  /VV  /VVX1/PN X2/CD X3/MXi has the same meaning as that of 3-4.Y1/DEG in the matching part implies that itcan match with any sequence of morphemes inwhich the part-of-speech of the last morpheme isequal to DEG.
Y1/DEG in the generation partdefines a substitution operation.
Y2/NN im-plies the same meaning, but the part-of-speechof the last morpheme is equal to NN.
In additionto the automatic generalization for morphemesof category PN and CD, the defined ?
? /M?
?is also generalized to X3/M.
The defined ?
[ (guide)/NN  /NN]2?
in Original and ?
[ (tourist guide)/NN  /NN]2?
in Paraphraseare both generalized to Y2/NN, although theyare not exactly the same.3.4 Construction of the ParaphrasingPatternsUsing the developed tool, we manually de-fined generalization information on the ex-tracted paraphrase pairs and then obtained thefollowing four groups of paraphrasing patternsthrough automatic transformation.
(1) 459 patterns of deleting negative expres-sions.
(2) 160 patterns of inserting ??.
(3) 160 patterns of deleting ??.
(4) 2,030 patterns of reordering words.The patterns of (3) were obtained by reversingthe matching part and the generation part ofeach pattern of (2).4 Design of the ParaphrasingProcessIn order to generate as many different expres-sions as possible, we designed a mechanism forapplying different groups of paraphrasing pat-terns.
As described in Section 2, the paraphras-ing process can be roughly classified into sim-plification paraphrasing aimed at simplifyingexpressions, and diversity paraphrasing aimedat increasing variations.
Bearing in mind thatsimplification paraphrasing can reduce syntac-tic and semantic ambiguities, we apply this typeof paraphrasing first, and then apply diversityparaphrasing.
Using this strategy, we antici-pate that the accuracy of diversity paraphrasingwill be higher because there will be fewer am-biguities in syntax and semantics.
In the fourgroups of patterns obtained above, group (1)belongs to simplification paraphrasing, and theother groups belong to diversity paraphrasing.For one input sentence, the procedure for ap-plying the different groups of patterns is de-signed as follows.
(1) Make the input sentence the applicationdata for all groups of patterns.
Set groupnumber i = 1.
(2) In the application of group i, get one pat-tern from the group and repeat step (2.1)to step (2.3).
(2.1) Match the input with the match-ing part of the selected pattern.
Ifthe matching succeeds, generate a sen-tence according to the generation partof the pattern.
(2.2) Make the generated sentencethe application data for all groupsj (i < j ?
4).
(At present there arefour groups of patterns.
)(2.3) Get another pattern then go to step(2.1) until there are no patterns left ingroup i.
(3) Set i = i + 1 and go to step (2) until i > 4.
(4) When passing the generated sentences tothe transfer, do not pass duplicated ones.Using this procedure, the generated paraphrasescan be passed to the transfer at any time ofthe paraphrasing process.
If one of the para-phrases can be translated by the transfer, theparaphrasing process will be stopped.
In addi-tion, the generated paraphrases can be para-phrased further by the patterns of followinggroups, therefore more expressions are likely tobe produced.
Based on this design, a para-phraser was implemented.5 Experiment and EvaluationA paraphrasing experiment was carried out onthe paraphrase corpus using the implementedparaphraser and the obtained patterns.
In or-der to get the same effect as that of using opentest data, each pattern was not applied to thesentence from which the pattern was general-ized.
For 45,110 test sentences, 4,908 test sen-tences (about 10.9%) were paraphrased.
Fromthe 4,908 test sentences, 8,183 paraphrases weregenerated and the average number of para-phrases for one test sentence was 1.66.
The gen-erated paraphrases were evaluated by Chinesenatives from two viewpoints, i.e., naturalnessand meaning-retaining, with their correspond-ing test sentences.
As a result, 7,226 generatedparaphrases were correct and an 88% accuracywas achieved.
The experimental result is shownin Table 2.Table 2.
Result of Paraphrasing Experiment# Test Sentences 45,110# Paraphrased Test Sentences 4,908 (10.9%)# Generated Paraphrases 8,183# Correct Paraphrases 7,226 (88%)Three examples of the paraphrasing resultsare given below.[5?
1]Input: ?
(Could you reserve the earliest plane for me?
)Paraphrase 1:?Paraphrase 2: ?[5?
2]Input: (May I reserve a restaurant here?
)Paraphrase 1: Paraphrase 2: Paraphrase 3: Paraphrase 4: Paraphrase 5: [5?
3]Input:  !"#$.
(A room with a nice view, please give me.
)Paraphrase 1: # !"$.
(Please arrange a room with a nice view forme.
)Paraphrase 2:%& !".
(I would like a room with a nice view.
)Paraphrase 3: #$!".
(Please give me a room with a nice view.
)Paraphrase 4: !"#$.
(As for room, please give me one with a niceview.
)In the Input of 5-1 there is an expression ofrepeated interrogation ?
?
that consists ofan affirmation ?
(can)?
and a negation ?(can not)?.
After the application of the patternsof deleting negative expressions, Paraphrase 1and Paraphrase 2 were generated.
Both para-phrases are in affirmative form and both are cor-rect.
From the Input of 5-2, five paraphraseswere generated only by reordering words.
Para-phrases 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 are all correct.
In theInput of 5-3, the order of the predicate ?#$?and the object ?
!"?
is inverted.
Af-ter the patterns of inserting ??
were applied,Paraphrase 1 was obtained.
Then, the patternsof deleting ??
were applied to this generatedparaphrase and Paraphrase 2 and Paraphrase3 were obtained.
In Paraphrase 3 the commonword order was recovered.
Finally, the patternsof reordering words were applied to Paraphrases1, 2, 3 and the input.
Paraphrase 4 was ob-tained from Paraphrase 3.
Paraphrases 1, 2, 3and 4 are all correct.From the experimental results we see that theproposed approach can realize the goal of sim-plifying the expressions of the inputs and in-creasing variations with a high level of accu-racy.
If one of the paraphrased results can betranslated, we can say that the paraphraser iseffective in the translation system.Through the analysis of wrong results, wefound two reasons for paraphrasing errors.
Onereason is that some constituents or modificationrelations are incorrectly recognized based on theobtained paraphrasing patterns.
For example,when pattern 3-6 was applied to the sentence?#$'()*!"
(A room for two people,please.
)?, the quantity phrase ?
'( (two)?
waswrongly recognized as modifying ?)*!"
(aroom where people can live)?, whereas it in factmodifies the noun ?)
(people)?.
Because ofthis wrong recognition, the generated sentencewas ?)*!
"#$'( (Please give me tworooms where people can live.)?.
Its meaning isdifferent from the input and therefore the resultis not correct.
The other reason for paraphras-ing errors is that there were errors in part-of-speech tagging.
For example, the word ?$?
in?#$+,-./0 (Please gift-wrap this)?was tagged as a verb while it really acts as apreposition.
The wrong tagging resulted in thewrong application of patterns.6 ConclusionIn this paper, a pattern-based approach to theparaphrasing of Chinese utterances is proposedand a method of constructing paraphrasing pat-terns from a corpus is described.
Based on theproposed approach and method, a paraphraseris implemented and four types of paraphrasingpatterns are constructed.
Also, a paraphrasingexperiment is conducted and experimental re-sults are reported.
The proposed approach hasthe following advantages.
(1) Because only morphological analysis is re-quired, it is easy to implement the para-phraser and the processing time is short.
(2) By using the developed semi-automaticgeneralization tool, paraphrasing patternscan be efficiently learned from a paraphras-ing corpus and human experience.
The pat-terns enhanced by human experience havea higher accuracy.
(3) The classification of paraphrasing phenom-ena in pattern learning makes it possible torestrict the paraphrasing process to somelanguage phenomena.
The mechanism ofapplying different types of patterns empha-sizes how to raise the accuracy of para-phrasing and how to increase variations.In this research, only four types of paraphras-ing phenomena are involved.
The coverageachieved using the current patterns is stilllow.
In the next phase, we are going to usethe proposed approach on other paraphrasingphenomena in order to be able to paraphrasemore Chinese utterances.AcknowledgementThis research was supported in part by theTelecommunications Advancement Organiza-tion of Japan.
We would also like to thank Ms.Lan Yao for her help in our experiments.ReferencesAkira Kataoka, Shigeru Masuyama, andKazuhide Yamamoto.
1999.
Summarizationby Shortening a Japanese Noun Modifier intoExpression ?A no B?.
In Proc.
of NLPRS?99,pages 409?414.Satoshi Sato.
1999.
Automatic Paraphrase ofTechnical Papers.
Transactions of Informa-tion Processing Society of Japan, 40(7):2937?2945.
(in Japanese).Satoshi Shirai, Satoru Ikehara, and TsukasaKawaoka.
1993.
Effects of Automatic Rewrit-ing of Source Language within a Japanese toEnglish MT System.
In Proc.
of TMI ?93,pages 226?239.Fei Xia.
2000.
The Part-of-speech Tag-ging Guideline for the Penn Chi-nese Treebank (3.0).
Available athttp://www.ldc.upenn.edu/ctb.Kazuhide Yamamoto, Satoshi Shirai, MasashiSakamoto, and Yujie Zhang.
2001.
Sand-glass: Twin Paraphrasing Spoken LanguageTranslation.
In Proc.
of ICCPOL?01, pages154?159.Kazuhide Yamamoto.
2002.
Machine Transla-tion by Interaction between Paraphraser andTransfer.
In Proc.
of Coling 2002.Li Zhang and Haruhiko Sato.
1999.
Chi-nese Expression Grammar-28 Points.
Toho-Shoten.
(in Japanese).Yujie Zhang and Kazuhide Yamamoto.
2001.Analysis of Chinese Spoken Language forAutomatic Paraphrasing.
In Proc.
of IC-CPOL?01, pages 290?293.Yujie Zhang, Chengqing Zong, KazuhideYamamoto, and Masashi Sakamoto.
2001.Paraphrasing Utterances by ReorderingWords Using Semi-Automatically AcquiredPatterns.
In Proc.
of NLPRS?01, pages195?202.Chengqing Zong, Yujie Zhang, Kazuhide Ya-mamoto, Masashi Sakamoto, and Satoshi Shi-rai.
2001.
Approach to Spoken Chinese Para-phrasing Based on Feature Extraction.
InProc.
of NLPRS?01, pages 551?556.
