The Grammatical Function Analysis between Korean Adnoun Clauseand Noun Phrase by Using Support Vector MachinesSongwook LeeDept.
of Computer Science,Sogang University1 Sinsu-dong, Mapo-guSeoul, Korea 121-742gospelo@nlprep.sogang.ac.krTae-Yeoub JangDept.
of English,Hankuk University of ForeignStudies270, Imun-dong,Dongdaemun-gu, Seoul,Korea 130-791tae@hufs.ac.krJungyun SeoDept.
of Computer Science,Sogang University1 Sinsu-dong, Mapo-guSeoul, Korea 121-742seojy@ccs.sogang.ac.krAbstractThis study aims to improve theperformance of identifyinggrammatical functions between anadnoun clause and a noun phrase inKorean.
The key task is to determinethe relation between the twoconstituents in terms of suchfunctional categories as subject, object,adverbial, and appositive.
Theproblem is mainly caused by the factthat functional morphemes, which areconsidered to be crucial for identifyingthe relation, are frequently omitted inthe noun phrases.
To tackle thisproblem, we propose to employ theSupport Vector Machines(SVM) indetermining the grammatical functions.Through an experiment with a taggedcorpus for training SVMs, theproposed model is found to be useful.1 IntroductionMany structural ambiguities in Korean sentencesare one of the major problems in Koreansyntactic analyses.
Most of those ambiguities canbe classified into either of two categories knownas "noun phrase (NP) attachment problem" and"verb phrase (VP) attachment problem".
The NPattachment problem refers to finding the VPwhich is the head of an NP.
On the other hand,the VP attachment problem refers to finding theVP which is the head of a VP.In resolving the NP attachment problem,functional morphemes play an important role asthey are the crucial elements in characterizing thegrammatical function between an NP and itsrelated VP.
However, the problem is that thereare many NPs that do not have such functionalmorphemes explicitly attached to each of them.This omission makes it difficult to identify therelation between constituents and subsequentlyto solve the NP attachment problem.
Moreover,most Korean sentences are complex sentences,which also makes the problem more complicated.In this research, we make an attempt to solvethis problem.
The focus is on the analysis of thegrammatical function between an NP and anembedded adnoun clause with a functionalmorpheme omitted.We adopt Support Vector Machines(SVM) asthe device by which a given adnoun clause isanalyzed as one of three relative functions(subject, object, or adverbial) or an appositive.Later in this paper (section 3), a brief descriptionof SVM will be given.2 Korean Adnoun Clauses and theiranalysis problemsAdnoun clauses are very frequent in Koreansentences.
In a corpus, for example, they appearas often as 18,264 times in 11,932 sentences (seesection 4, for details).
It means that effectiveanalyses of adnoun clauses will directly lead toimproved  performance of lexical, morphologicaland syntactic processing by machine.In order to indicate the difficulties of theadnoun clause analysis, we need to have somebasic knowledge on the structure of Koreanadnoun clause formation.
Thus, we will brieflyillustrate the types of Korean adnoun clauses.Then, what makes the analysis tricky will bemade clear.2.1 Two types of adnoun clausesThere are two types of adnoun clauses inKorean : relative adnoun clause and appositiveadnoun clause.
The former  is a more generalform of adnoun clause and its formation can beexemplified as follows :1.a Igeos-eun(this) geu-ga(he) sseu-n(wrote)chaeg-ida(book-is).
(This is the book which he wrote.
)1.b Igeos-eun(this) chaeg-ida(book-is).
(This is a book.
)1.c Geu-ga(he) chaeg-eul(book)sseoss-da(wrote).
(He worte the book.
)1.a is a complex sentence composed of twosimple sentences 1.b and 1.c in terms of adnounclause formation.
The functional morpheme?eul?, which represents the object relationbetween ?chaeg?
and ?sseoss-da?
in 1.c, does notappear in 1.a  but ?chaeg?
is the functional objectof ?sseu-n?
in 1.a.
This adnoun clause is called arelative adnoun clause whose complement movesto the NP modified by the adnoun clause and theNP modified by a relative adnoun clause is calleda head NP.
In 1.a ?geu-ga sseun?
is a relativeadnoun clause and ?chaeg?
is its head noun (orNP).Let us consider another example of an adnounclause.2.
Geu-ga(he) jeongjigha-n(be honest)sasil-eun(fact) modeun(every) saram-i(body)an-da(know).
(Everybody knows the fact that he is honest.
)The adnoun clause in 2 is a complete sentencewhich has all necessary syntactic constituents initself.
This type of adnoun clause is called anappositive adnoun clause.
And the head NPmodified by the appositive adnoun clause iscalled a complement noun (Lee, 1986; Chang1995).
In 2, ?geu-ga jeongjig-han?
is anappositive adnoun clause and ?sasil?
is acomplement noun.
Generally, such words as?iyu(reason), gyeong-u(case),  jangmyeon(scene),il(work), cheoji(condition), anghwang(situation),saggeon(happening), naemsae(smell),somun(rumor) and geos(thing)?
are typicalexamples of the complement noun (Chang, 1995;Lee, 1986).2.2 The problemsThe first problem we are faced with whenanalyzing grammatical functions of Koreanadnoun clauses is obviously the disappearance ofthe functional morphemes which carry importantinformation, as shown in the previous subsection(2.1).Apart from the morpheme-ommissionproblem, there is another reason for the difficulty.As it is directly related to a language particularsyntactic characteristic of Korean, we need firstto understand a unique procedure of Koreanrelativization.
Unlike English, in which relativepronouns (e.g., who, whom, whose, which andthat) are used for relativization and theythemselves bear crucial information foridentifying grammatical function of the headnoun in relative clauses (see example 1.a, insection 1), there is no such relative pronouns inKorean.
Instead, an adnominal verb ending isattached to the verb stem and plays agrammatical role of modifying its head noun.However, the problem is that these verb endingmorphemes do not provide any informationabout the grammatical function associated withthe relevant head noun.Take 3.a-c for examples.3.a Sigdang-eseo(restaurant) bab-eul(rice)meog-eun(ate) geu(he).
(He who ate a rice in a restaurant.
)3.b Sigdang-eseo geu-ga meog-eun bab.
(the rice which he ate in a restaurant.
)3.c Geu-ga bab-eul meog-eun sigdang.
(the restaurant in which he ate a rice.
)Despite all three sentences above have the sameadnominal ending ?eun?, the grammaticalfunction of each relative noun is different.
Thegrammatical function of the head noun in 3.a issubject, in 3.b, object and in 3.c, adverbial.The word order gives little informationbecause Korean is a partly free word-orderlanguage and some complements of a verb maybe frequently omitted.
For example, in sentence4, the verb of relative clause ?sigdang-eseomeog-eun(who ate in the restaurant or which oneate in the restaurant)?
have two omittedcomplements which are subject and object.
So?bab?
can be identified as either of subject orobject in the relative clause.4.
Sigdang-eseo(restaurant) meog-eun(ate)bab-eul(rice) na-neun(I) boass-da(saw).
(I saw the rice which (one) ate in a restaurant.
)Korean appositive adnoun clauses have the samesyntactic structure of relative adnoun clauses asin example 2 in section 2.Yoon et al (1997) classified adnoun clausesinto relative adnoun clauses and appositiveadnoun clauses based on a complement noundictionary which was manually constructed, andthen tries to find the grammatical function of arelative noun using lexical co-occurrenceinformation.
But as shown in example 5, acomplement noun can be used as a relative noun,so Yoon et al (1997)?s method using thedictionary has some limits.5.
Geu-ga(he) balgyeonha-n(discover)sasil-eul(truth) mal-haess-da(talk).
(He talked about the truth which he discovered.
)Li et al (1998) described a method usingconceptual co-occurrence patterns and syntacticrole distribution of relative nouns.
Linguisticinformation is extracted from corpus andthesaurus.
However,  he did not take into accountappositive adnoun clauses but only consideredrelative adnoun clauses.Lee et al (2001) classified adnoun clauses intoappositive clauses and one of relative clauses.
Heproposed a stochastic method based on amaximum likelihood estimation and adopted thebacked-off model in estimating the probabilityP(r|v,e,n) to handle sparse data problem (thesymbols r, v, e and n represent the grammaticalrelation, the verb of the adnoun clause, theadnominal verb ending, and the head nounmodified by an adnoun clause, respectively).The backed-off model handles unknown wordseffectively but it may not be used with all thebacked-off stages in real field problems wherehigher accuracy is needed.3 Support Vector MachinesThe technique of Support VectorMachines(SVM) is a learning approach forsolving two-class pattern recognition problemsintroduced by Vapnik (1995).
It is based on theStructural Risk Minimization principle for whicherror-bound analysis has been theoreticallymotivated (Vapnik, 1995).
The problem is tofind a decision surface that separates the datapoints in two classes optimally.
A decisionsurface by SVM for linearly separable space is ahyperplane H : y = w?x ?
b = 0 and twohyperplanes parallel to it and with equaldistances to it,H1 : y = w?x ?
b = +1,H2 : y = w?x ?
b = ?1,with the condition that there are no data pointsbetween H1 and H2, and the distance between H1and H2 is maximized.We want to maximize the distance between H1and H2.
So there will be some positive exampleson H1 and some negative examples on H2.
Theseexamples are called support vectors because theyonly participate in the definition of the separatinghyperplane, and other examples can be removedand/or moved around as long as they do not crossthe planes H1 and H2.
In order to maximize thedistance, we should minimize ||w|| with thecondition that there are no data points betweenH1 and H2,w?x ?
b ?
+1 for yi = +1,w?x ?
b ?
?1 for yi = ?1.The SVM problem is to find such w and b thatsatisfy the above constraints.
It can be solvedusing quadratic programming techniques(Vapnik,1995).
The algorithms for solving linearlyseparable cases can be extended so that they cansolve linearly non-separable cases as well byeither introducing soft margin hyperplanes, or bymapping the original data vectors to a higherdimensional space where the new featurescontain interaction terms of the original features,and the data points in the new space becomelinearly separable (Vapnik, 1995).
We useSVMlight1 system for our experiment (Joachimes,1998).SVM performance is governed by the features.We use the verb of each adnoun clause, theadnominal verb ending and the head noun of thenoun phrase.
To reflect context of sentence, weuse the previous noun phrase, which is locatedright before the verb, and its functionalmorpheme.
The previous noun phrase is thesurface level word list not the previous argumentfor the verb in adnoun clause.
Part ofspeech(POS) tags of all lexical item are also usedas feature.
For example, in sentence ?Igeos-eungeu-ga sseu-n chaeg-ida.
?, ?geu?
is a previosnoun pharse feature, ?ga?
is its functionalmorpheme feature, ?sseu?
is a verb feature, ?n?
isa verb ending feature, ?chaeg?
is a head nounfeature and all POS tags of lexical items arefeatures.Because we found that the kernel of SVM doesnot strongly affect the performance of ourproblem through many experiments, weconcluded that our problem is linearly separable.Thus we will use the linear kernel only.As the SVMs is a binary class classifier, weconstruct four classifiers, one for each class.Each classifier constructs a hyperplane betweenone class and other classes.
We select theclassifier which has the maximal distance fromthe margin for each test data point.4 Experimental ResultsWe use the tree tagged corpus of KoreanInformation Base which is annotated as a form ofphrase structured tree (Lee, 1996).
It consists of11,932 sentences, which corresponds to 145,630eojeols.
Eojeol is a syntactic unit composed ofone lexical morpheme with multiple functionalmorphemes optionally attached to it.
We extractthe verb of an adnoun clause and the noun phrasewhich is modified by the adnoun clause.
Weregard an eojeol consisting of a main verb andauxiliary-verbs as a single main-verb eojeol.
Incase of a complex verb, we only take into accountthe first part of it.
Every verb which hasadnominal morphemes and the head word of anoun phrase which is modified by adnoun clause,were extracted.
Because Korean is head-fiinal1  The SVMlight system is available athttp://ais.gmd.de/~thorsten/svm_light/.language, we regard the last noun of a nounphrase as the head word of the noun phrase.The total number of extracted pairs of verb andnoun is 18,264.
The grammatical function ofeach pair is manually tagged.
To experiment, thedata was subdivided into a learning data set from10,739 sentences and a test data set from 1,193sentences.
We use 16,413 training data pointsand 1,851 test data points in all experiments.Table 1 shows an accuracy at each of thegrammatical categories between an adnounclause and a noun phrase with SVMs, comparedwith the backed-off method which is proposed by(Lee, 2001).Table 1. the acuracy of SVM and Backed-offmodel at each of the grammatical categoriessubj obj adv app totalSVM 84.4 62.9 92.0 97.5 88.7SVM withcontextfeature88.8 75.6 89.6 96.1 90.8Backed-off 86.2 42.0 62.0 91.7 83.5proportion inthe trainingdata(%)52.8 4.5 6.7 36.0 100It should be noted that SVM outperformsBacked-off model in Table 1.
By using contextinformation we acquire an improvement ofoverall 2.1%.Table 2 represents the accuracies of theproposed model compared with the Li?s model.The category ?appositive?
is not taken intoaccount for fair comparison.
It should be notedthat Li et al (1998)?s results are drawn from mostfrequent 100 verbs while ours, from 4,684 verbsall of which are in the training corpus.Table 2. the accuracy of SVM withoutconsidering appositive clausessubj obj adv totalSVM withcontextfeature94.1 87.8 85.7 93.3Li et al(1998) 90 92 89.2 90.4It is shown that our proposed model shows thebetter overall result in determining thegrammatical function between an adnoun clauseand its modifying head noun.Most errors are caued by lack of lexicalinformation.
Actually, lexical information in19% of the test data has not occurred in thetraining data.
The other errors are caused by thecharacteristics that some verbs in adnoun clausescan have dual subjects which we did not considerin the problem.
Take 6 for an example.6.
Nun-i(eyes) keu-n(be big) Cheolsu(Cheolsu who has big eyes)In example 6, the context NP is ?nun?
and itsfunctional word is ?i?
which may represent  that itis subject of ?keu-da?, thus system may wronglydetermine that ?Cheolsu?
is not a subject of?keu-da?
because the subject of ?keu-da?
has beenmade with ?nun?.
However, both ?Cheolsu?
and?nun?
are the subjects of ?keu-da?.5 Conclusion and Future worksAdnoun clause is a typical complex sentencestructure of Korean.
There are various types ofgrammatical relations between an adnoun clauseand its relevant noun phrase.
Unlike in betweengeneral content words and modifying clauseswhere their grammatical relations can be easilyextrated in terms of various grammaticalcharacteristics by the functional morphemes, thefunctional morphemes are omitted in a nounphrase when it is modified by an adnoun clause.This omission makes it difficult to characterizetheir grammatical relation.In this paper, we used SVM to take care of thisproblem and analyze the relation between nounphrase and adnoun clause.
We reflected contextinformation by using the previous word of theverb in adnoun clauses as feature.
Contextinformation helped the grammatical functionanalysis between adnoun clause and the headnoun.
The SVM can also handle the sparse dataproblem as the backed-off model does.
Weacquired overall accuracy of 90.8%, which isobviously an improvement from the previousworks.In the future, we plan to compare with othermachine learning methods and to enhance oursystem by using a publicly available Koreanthesaurus to increases general accuracy.
Moredata needs to be collected for furtherperformance improvement.
We will also workon utilizing the proposed model in some partialparsing problem.ReferencesChang, Suk-Jin, 1995.
Information-basedKorean Grammar, Hanshin Publishing Co.Yoon, J., 1997.
Syntactic Analysis for KoreanSentences Using Lexical Association Based onCo-occurrence Relation, Ph.D. Dissertation,Yonsei University.Katz, S., 1987.
Estimation of Probabilitiesfrom Sparse Data for the Language ModelComponent of a Speech Recogniser.
IEEETransactions on Acoustics, Speech, and Signalprocessing, Vol.
ASSP-35, No.
3.Lee, Ik-Sop, Hong-Pin Im, 1986, KoreanGrammar Theory, Hagyeonsa.Lee, Kong Joo, Jae-Hoon Kim, Key-Sun Choi,and Gil Chang Kim.
1996, Korean syntactictagset for building a tree annotated corpus.Korean Journal of Cognitive Science, 7(4):7-24.Lee, Songwook, Tae-Yeoub Jang, JungyunSeo.
2001, The Grammatical Function Analysisbetween Adnoun Clause and Noun Phrase inKorean, In Proceedings of the Sixth NaturalLanguage Processing Pacific Rim Symposium,pp709-713.Li, Hui-Feng, Jong-Hyeok Lee, Geunbae Lee,1998.
Identifying Syntactic Role of Antecedentin Korean Relative Clause Using Corpus andThesaurus Information.
In Proceeding ofCOLING-ACL, pp.756-762.Vapnik, Vladimir N. 1995, The Nature ofStatistical Learning Theory.
Springer, NewYork.Joachims, Thorsten.
1998, TextCategorization with Support Vector Machines:Learning with Many Relevant Features.
InEuropean Conference on Machine Learning, pp.137-142.
