Applying an NVEF Word-Pair Identifier tothe Chinese Syllable-to-Word Conversion ProblemJia-Lin TsaiIntelligent Agent Systems Lab.Institute of Information Science, Academia Sinica,Nankang, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C.tsaijl@iis.sinica.edu.twWen-Lian HsuIntelligent Agent Systems Lab.Institute of Information Science, Academia Sinica,Nankang, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C.hsu@iis.sinica.edu.twAbstractSyllable-to-word (STW) conversion is importantin Chinese phonetic input methods and speechrecognition.
There are two major problems inthe STW conversion: (1) resolving the ambigu-ity caused by homonyms; (2) determining theword segmentation.
This paper describes anoun-verb event-frame (NVEF) word identifierthat can be used to solve these problems effec-tively.
Our approach includes (a) an NVEFword-pair identifier and (b) other word identifi-ers for the non-NVEF portion.Our experiment showed that the NVEFword-pair identifier is able to achieve a 99.66%STW accuracy for the NVEF related portion,and by combining with other identifiers for thenon-NVEF portion, the overall STW accuracy is96.50%.The result of this study indicates that the NVEFknowledge is very powerful for the STW con-version.
In fact, numerous cases requiring dis-ambiguation in natural language processing fallinto such ?chicken-and-egg?
situation.
TheNVEF knowledge can be employed as a generaltool in such systems for disambiguating theNVEF related portion independently (thusbreaking the chicken-and-egg situation) andusing that as a good fundamental basis to treatthe remaining portion.
This shows that theNVEF knowledge is likely to be important forgeneral NLP.
To further expand its coverage, weshall extend the study of NVEF to that of otherco-occurrence restrictions such as noun-nounpairs, noun-adjective pairs and verb-adverb pairs.We believe the STW accuracy can be furtherimproved with the additional knowledge.1.
IntroductionMore than 100 Chinese input methods have beencreated in the past [1-6].
Currently, the mostpopular input method is based on phoneticsymbols.
Phonetic input method requires littletraining because Chinese are taught to write thecorresponding pinyin syllable of each Chinesecharacter in primary school.
Since there aremore than 13,000 distinct Chinese characters(with around 5400 commonly-used), but only1,300 distinct syllables, the homonym problemis quite severe in phonetic input method.Therefore, an intelligent syllable-to-word (STW)conversion for Chinese is very important.
Acomparable (but easier) problem to the STWconversion in English is the word-sensedisambiguation.There are basically two approaches for the STWconversion: (a) the linguistic approach based onsyntax parsing or semantic template matching[3,4,7,8] and (b) the statistical approach basedon the n-gram model where n is usually 2 or 3[9-12].
The linguistic approach is more laboriousbut the end result can be more user friendly.
Onthe other hand, the statistical approach is lesslabor intensive, but its power is dependent ontraining corpus and it usually does not providedeep semantic information.
Our approach adoptsthe semantically oriented NVEF word-pairs (tobe defined formally in Section 2.1) plus otherstatistical methods so that not only the resultmakes sense semantically, but the model is alsofully automatic provided that enough NVEFshave already been collected.According to the studies in [13], good syllablesequence segmentation is crucial for the STWconversion.
For example, consider the syllablesequence ?zhe4 liang4 che1 xing2 shi3 shun4chang4?
of the Chinese sentence ????????
(This car moves well).?
By dictionary, thetwo possible segmentation results are (we use?/?
to indicate syllable word boundary)(1) ?zhe4/liang4/che1 xing2/shi3/shun4 chang4?
(2) ?zhe4/liang4/che1/xing2 shi3/shun4 chang4?using the longest-syllabic-word-first strategy[14].
The two ambiguous portions are /che1xing2/shi3/ (/{??
,??}/{?,?,?,?,?,?
,?
}/) and /che1/xing2 shi3/ (/{?,?,?
}/{??,??
}/), respectively.
In this case, if the systemhas the information that ??-??
(car, move)?
isa permissible NVEF word-pair and itscorresponding syllable-pair ?che1-xing2shi3?has been collected, then the correct segmentationand word-pair ??
-??
(che1-xing2shi3)?
ofthis syllable sequence can be determinedsimultaneously.Since NVEF word-pairs are usually the keyfeatures of a sentence, if identified correctly,they become good reference words for then-gram models to predict the remainingunconverted syllables.
We [15] showed that theknowledge of NVEF sense-pairs and theircorresponding NVEF word-pairs (NVEFknowledge) are useful for effectively resolvingword sense ambiguity and getting highlyaccurate word-segmentation for thoseambiguous NVEF word-pairs in Chinese.In this paper, we shall show that the NVEFknowledge can be used effectively in the STWconversion for Chinese.
Section 2 describes ourapproach.
The experimental result is presentedin Section 3.
Directions for future research willbe discussed in section 4.2 .
Development of an NVEF-based WordIdentifierHownet [16] is adopted as the system?sword-sense dictionary, which provides theknowledge of Chinese lexicon (58,541 words),parts-of-speech (POS) and word senses.
Wehave integrated Chinese words in Hownet,Sinica corpus [17], Cilin (tong2yi4ci2ci2lin2???
?
?
?
?)
[18], Chinese dictionary(guo2yu2ci2dian3??????)
[19] and Chineseword lists in [20] into a commonly-usedmachine-readable dictionary (MRD) calledcommon MRD, which provides the knowledge ofChinese lexicon (in which the top 60,000 wordsare selected from the list of 252,307 words indescending order of word frequency), wordfrequencies and syllable words.
The syllable ofeach word in common MRD was translated bythe inversed process of phoneme-to-charactersystem presented in [4,8].
Word frequency iscomputed according to a fixed size trainingcorpus consisting of 4,539,624 Chinesesentences obtained from the on-line UnitedDaily News [21] (during the period of 17January, 2001 to 30 December, 2001).2.1 Definition of the NVEF Sense-Pair,Word-Pair and Syllable Word-PairThe sense of a word is defined as its DEF(concept definition) in Hownet.
Table 1 liststhree different senses of the Chinese word??(Che/car/turn).?
In Hownet, the DEF of aword consists of its main feature and secon-dary features.
For example, in the DEF?character|?
?
, surname|?
, human|?
,ProperName|??
of the word ??(Che),?
thefirst item ?character|???
is the main fea-ture, and the remaining three items, ?sur-name|?
,?
?human|?
,?
and ?ProperName|?,?
are its secondary features.
The mainfeature in Hownet can inherit features in thehypernym-hyponym hierarchy.
There areapproximately 1,500 features in Hownet.Each feature is called a sememe, which re-fers to a smallest semantic unit that cannotbe further reduced.Table 1.
Three different senses of the Chineseword ??
(Che/car/turn)?Word POS/Sense (i.e.
DEF in Hownet)?
Che N/character|??
,surname|?,human|?,ProperName|??
car N/LandVehicle|??
turn V/cut|?
?The Hownet dictionary used in this study con-tains 58,541 words, in which there are 33,264nouns, 16,723 verbs and 16,469 senses (includ-ing 10,011 noun-senses and 4,462 verb-senses).In our experiment, we have also added the DEFsfor those words not in Hownet.A permissible NV word-pair such as ??-??(car-move)?
is called a noun-verb event-frame(NVEF) word-pair.
According to the sense of theword ??(Che/car/turn)?
and the word ???(move),?
the only permissible NV sense-pair forthe NV word-pair ??
- ??
(car, move)?
is?LandVehicle| ?
?-?VehicleGo| ?
.?
We callsuch a permissible NV sense-pair an NVEFsense-pair.
Note that an NVEF sense-pair is aclass that includes the NVEF word-pair instance??-???
as well as the corresponding NVEFsyllable word-pair ?che1-xing2 shi3.
?2.2 Definition of the NVEF KR-TreeA knowledge representation tree (KR-tree) ofNVEF sense-pairs is shown in Fig.1.
There aretwo types of nodes in the KR-tree: conceptnodes and function nodes.
Concept nodes referto words and features in Hownet.
Functionnodes are used to define the relationshipsbetween their parent and children concept nodes.If a concept node A is the child of anotherconcept node B, then A is a subclass of B.Following this convention, we shall omit thefunction node ?subclass?
between A and B.Noun-sense class is divided into 15 subclassesaccording to their main features.
They arebacteria, animal, human, plant, artifact, natural,event, mental, phenomena, shape, place, location,time, abstract and quantity.Three function nodes are used in the KR-tree asshown in Fig.
1:Figure 1.
An illustration of the KR-tree using ????(artifact)?
as an example noun-sense subclass.
(1) Major-Event (????
): The content of itsparent node represents a noun-sense subclass,and the content of its child node represents averb-sense subclass.
A noun-sense subclassand a verb-sense subclass linked by aMajor-Event function node is an NVEFsubclass sense-pair, such as ?&LandVehicle|?
?
and ?=VehcileGo|??
in Fig.
1.
Todescribe various relationships betweennoun-sense and verb-sense subclasses, wehave designed three subclass sense-symbols,in which ?=?
means ?exact,?
?&?
means?like,?
and ?%?
means ?inclusive.?
Anexample using these symbols is given below.Given three senses S1, S2 and S3 defined by amain feature A and three secondary featuresB, C and D, let S1 = A, B, C, D,S2 = A, B, and S3 = A, C, D. Then, we havethat sense S2 is in the ?=A,B?
exact-subclass;senses S1 and S2 are in the ?&A,B?like-subclass; and senses S1 S2, and S3 are inthe ?%A?
inclusive-subclass.
(2) Word-Instance (??
): The content of itschildren are the words belonging to the sensesubclass of its parent node.
These words arelearned automatically by the NVEFsense-pair identifier according to sentencesunder the Test-Sentence nodes.
(3) Test-Sentence (???
): Its content includesseveral selected test sentences in support ofits corresponding NVEF subclass sense-pair.2.3 An NVEF Word-Pair IdentifierWe [15] have developed an NVEF sense-pairidentifier for word-sense disambiguation (WSD).This sense-pair identifier is based on the NVEFKR-tree and the techniques of longest syllabicNVEF-word-pair first (LS-NVWF) andexclusion word list (EWL) checking.
Bymodifying this identifier, we obtain our NVEFword-pair identifier described below.Step 1.
Input a syllable sequence.Step 2.
Generate all possible NV word-pairswhose corresponding NV syllableword-pairs are found in the inputsequence.
Exclude certain NV word-pairsbased on EWL checking.Step 3.
Check each NV word-pair to see if itscorresponding NV sense-pairs (there canbe several such pairs) can be matched toan NVEF subclass sense-pair in theKR-tree.
If one such NV sense-pairmatches an NVEF subclass sense-pair inthe KR-tree, then this permissible NVEFsense-pairs and their corresponding NVEFword-pairs can be used for the sentence.Resolve conflicts using the LS-NVWFstrategy.Step 4.
Arrange all remaining permissibleNVEF sense-pairs and their correspondingNVEF word-pairs in a sentence-NVEFtree.
If no NVEF word-pair can beidentified from the input sequence, a nullsentence-NVEF tree will be produced.A system overview of the NVEF word-pairidentifier is given in Fig.
2.
The output of thisNVEF word-pair identifier is called asentence-NVEF tree, as shown in Fig.
3.NVEF word-pair identifierKR treesentence-NVEF treeinput syllablesHownetLS-NVWF & EWL checkingFigure 2.
A system overview of the NVEF word-pairidentifier.Figure 3.
A sentence-NVEF tree for the Chinesesyllables ?yin3 liao4 li3 han2 you3 bu4 ming2 wu4zhi2(????????
?|There are uncertainmatters in the drink).
?2.4 A Word Identifier for the non-NVEFportionTo supplement the NVEF word-pair identifierfor the portion of syllable sequence that is notconverted by the NVEF knowledge, a separateword identifier is developed.
A system overviewof the identifier for the NVEF portion andnon-NVEF portion is given in Fig.
4.
Our wordidentifier for the non-NVEF portion includesfour sub-identifiers whose details are given be-low:(1) Number-classifier-noun phrase (NCNphrase) identifier: There are many specificlinguistic units, such as names, addresses,determinatives-measure compounds (DM) etc.
insyllables which need to be recognized in order tosupplement the NVEF word-pair identifier(which works in a top-down fashion) Althoughthe number of these linguistic units are infinite,they can be recognized by finite regularexpressions [22].
Following this fact andChinese grammar, we have developed an NCNphrase identifier to identify phrases consisting ofthe numbers, classifiers, and nouns, in particular,the commonly-used number-classifier-nounsyllable pattern, such as syllables ?yi1 bai3 wu3shi2 ge4 guan1 zhong4 (??????
?|onehundred and fifty audience).
?To develop this identifier, we first divide therelated words in Hownet into three subclassesfor the construction of the NCN phrase, i.e.numbers (the POS is ?NUM?
), classifiers (thePOS is ?CLAS?)
and nouns (the POS is ?N?.
)Secondly, to enrich the knowledge in Hownet,12 new numbers and 172 new classifiers areadded into the original Hownet.
Then we createa table listing 13,366 classifier-noun word-pairs(CN word-pairs) and their corresponding CNsyllable word-pairs, such as ?ge4-guan1 zhong4( ?
- ?
?
).?
This table is called the CNword-pair list, which is generated by trainingcorpus (Monosyllabic nouns are not consideredin this table).NVEF word-pair identifierKR treesegmented sentence and asentence-NVEF treeunsegmentedsyllable inputHownetNCN wordidentifierspecific-monosyllabicword identifierunique-syllabicword identifiercommon MRD training corpusnon-unique-syllabic wordidentifierFigure 4.
A system overview of the NVEF-basedword identifier.Now, take the syllables ?yin1 yue4 ting1 you3yi1 bai3 wu3 shi2 ge4 guan1 zhong4 (??????????
?|There are one hundred andfifty audiences in concert hall)?
as an example.The NCN phrase identifier will first identify thewords of number syllables ?yi1 bai3 wu3shi2( ?
?
?
?
|one hundred and fifty)?combined by combining two matching numbersyllables ?yi1 bai3( ??
|one hundred)?
and?wu3 shi2(??
|fifty).?
Secondly, if the numberof characters of the recognized number syllablesis greater than 1, the NCN word identifier willcontinue on checking the following syllableswith the CN word-pair list.
In this case, since thefollowing syllables ?ge4 guan1 zhong4?
arefound in the CN word-pair list, it will beidentified as CN word-pair ??-??.?
(2) Specific-monosyllabic word identifier:When a monosyllabic word in Hownet hasexactly one POS, and that POS is in the set{ADJ (adjective), ADV (adverb), AUX(auxiliary), COOR (coordinator), CONJ(conjunctive), PREP (preposition), STRU(structure word)}, we call this word aspecific-monosyllabic word.
There are 525specific-monosyllabic words found in the usedHownet.Consider the following monosyllabic word ??|already(yi3).?
We shall use the POSinformation of polysyllabic words immediatelypreceding and following this word to decide if?yi3?
should be identified as ??
(already)?.According to the training corpus, the top 3preferred POSs of words following ?
?(already)?
are V (verb), ADV (adverb) and ADJ(adjective).
Therefore, the top 3 preferred POSsof syllable words following ?yi3?
should also beV, ADV and ADJ provided that ??(already)?
isto be identified.
The top 3 preferred POSs ofsyllable words preceding and following aspecific-monosyllabic word will be called thetop 3 preceding and following preferred POSs,respectively.Now, consider the syllable sequence ?gong1cheng2 yi3 wan2 cheng2 le5 (?????
?|The project has been done)?
as an example.First, by checking syllable-by-syllable from leftto right, our algorithm recognizes that there is aspecific-monosyllabic word ?yi3?
in thissentence.
Then, it will use thelongest-syllabic-word-first strategy to identifythe syllable word ?wan2 cheng2?
following?yi3?
and the syllable word ?gong1 cheng2?preceding ?yi3?.
It will check whether at leastone of the distinct POSs of the preceding andfollowing syllable words are within the set oftop 3 preceding and following preferred POSs of?yi3?, respectively .
Since this is indeed the case,the word ???
will be identified.After the input syllables have been processed bythe NVEF word-pair identifier, the NCN wordidentifier, and the specific-monosyllabic wordidentifier, the remaining unconverted syllableswill be segmented in a right-to-left fashion usingthe LS-NVWF strategy in the following process.
(3) Unique-syllabic word identifier: Whena given syllable word maps to exactly one wordin the common MRD, we call the mapped wordin MRD a unique-syllabic word, e.g.
the word?
?
?
?
/yin1 yue4 hui4/?.
Theseunique-syllabic words will be identified directlyfrom right to left.
(4) Non-unique-syllabic word identifier:This identifier is used at the very end to dealwith those remaining unconverted syllables.
It isan n-gram based approach.
Define the NVEFfrequency to be the number of sentencesincluding a given NVEF word-pair in thetraining corpus.
First of all, the identifier willselect, from the sentence-NVEF tree, the NVEFword-pair having the largest NVEF frequency asthe main NVEF word-pair.
Recall that theunconverted syllables have been segmented bythe longest-syllable-word-first strategy fromright to left.
Finally, it will convert eachsegmented syllable word to its correspondingword by the following steps: (a) find alldistinctly mapped words of a given syllableword from the common MRD, (b) compute theco-occurrence frequency of each mapped wordwith the key NVEF word-pair one-by-one indescending order of mapped words?
frequencies,(c) whenever the co-occurrence frequency isgreater than 0, then convert the given syllableword to this mapped word, (d) if all thecomputed co-occurrence frequencies in step (b)are 0, the given syllable word will be convert toits mapped word with the largest wordfrequency.Take the non-unique syllable word ?jin4?
inTable A1 as example, the list of its mappedwords in descending order of word frequencywere ??
(enter)/212,481?, ??(near)/115,913?,??(exhaustive)/58,387?
, ??(forbid)/17,702?,??
(strongly)/8,089?, ??
(Jin Dynasty)/4,524?,??
(soak)/1,677?
, ?
?
(cinder)/722?
, ?
?(Jin)/114?
and ?
?
(red silk)/41.?
Since theco-occurrence frequency of the mapped wordswith the key NVEF word-pair ???
- ??
(locale, enter)?
is first greater than 0 at the word??
(near)?, the non-unique syllabic word ?jin4?will be converted to the word ??.?3.
Experimental ResultsDefine the STW accuracy to be the ratio of the #of correct characters identified over the total # ofcharacters.
We use the inverse translator ofphoneme-to-character system in [3] to convert atest sentence into a syllable sequence, then applyour STW algorithm to convert this syllablesequence back to characters and calculate itsaccuracy.If a sentence contains an NVEF word-pair, thissentence is called an NVEF identified sentence.Since the purpose of this study is to demonstratethe effect of applying NVEF word-pair identifierto the STW conversion, we shall focus onconverting NVEF identified sentences.10,000 NVEF identified sentences are randomlyselected from the test sentences in the KR-tree tobe the closed test set; and another 10,000sentences are randomly selected from Sinicacorpus to be the open test set.
Note thatsentences in open test set are not necessarilyNVEF identified sentences.The results of the STW experiment are shown inTable 2 listed in three columns: (1) the NVEFword-pair identifier; (2) the other foursub-identifiers for the non-NVEF protion; and (3)the combination of (1) and (2).Table 2.
The results of the STW experiment.
(1)       (2)    (3)Closed test 99.76%    94.65% 97.10%Open test 99.55%    93.64% 95.97%Average  99.66%    94.08% 96.50%For more details, the accuracies of the fouridentifiers in Section 2.4 are listed in Table 3below.Table 3.
The STW accuracies of the foursub-identifiers for the non-NVEF portion(1) (2) (3) (4)Closed test   100.00% 94.68% 97.45% 89.01%Open test     97.25% 94.02% 97.37% 86.10%Average       98.31% 94.32% 97.41% 87.35%4.
Conclusions and Directions for FutureResearchIn this paper, we have applied an NVEFword-pair identifier to the Chinese STWconversion problem and obtained excellent ratesas shown in Table 2.
The knowledge used in thisstudy includes: (1) the NVEF knowledge, (2) theCN word-pair list, (3) the top 3 preferred POSsfollowing or preceding thespecific-monosyllabic words, (4) theunique-syllabic word list and (5) theco-occurrence frequency of words with aselected key NVEF word-pairs.
Besides theNVEF knowledge in (1), which can be (and hasbeen) generated semi-automatically, the otherknowledge can all be trained automatically.Our database for the NVEF knowledge has notbeen completed at the time of this writing.
TheNVEFs are constructed by selecting anoun-sense in Hownet and searching formeaningful verb-sense associated with it.Currently, only 66.34% (=6,641/10,011) of thenoun-senses in Hownet have been considered inthe NVEF knowledge construction.
This resultsin 167,203 NVEF subclass sense-pairs and317,820 NVEF word-pairs created in theKR-tree.
In the training corpus, about 50% ofthe sentences includes at least one NVEFword-pair in it.Based on this experiment, we find that theNVEF-based approach has the potential toprovide the following information for a givensyllable sequence: (1) well-segmented Chinesesentence, (2) sentence-NVEF tree includingmain verbs, nouns, NVEF word-pairs, NVEFsense-pairs, NVEF phrase-boundaries, and (3)the CN word-pairs.
This information will likelybe useful for general NLP, especially forsentence understanding.The NVEF knowledge is a general linguistickey-feature for sentence analysis.
We areencouraged to note that the NVEF knowledgecan achieve a high STW accuracy of 99.66% forthe NVEF related portion.
Our NVEF wordidentifier can be easily integrated with otherexisting STW conversion systems by using theNVEF word identifier as a first round filter,namely, identifying words in the NVEF relatedportion (thus, providing a good fundamentalbasis) and leaving the remaining unconvertedsyllables to other systems with a good potentialto enhance their accuracies.We shall continue our work on covering all thenoun-senses in Hownet for the NVEFknowledge construction.
This procedure cannow be done fully automatically with 99.9% ofconfidence.
The study of NVEF will also beextended to that of other co-occurrencerestrictions such as noun-noun (NN) pairs,noun-adjective (NA) pairs and verb-adverb (ND)pairs.
Note, however, that the study of theselatter pairs will be much simpliefied once thekey-feature NVEFs of a sentence have beencorrectly extracted.
We shall also try to improveour NVEF-based approach for the STWconversion and further extend it to speechrecognition.The results in [15] indicate that the NVEFknowledge can also be used effectively for wordsense disambiguation.
In the future, we shallapply the NVEF knowledge to other fields ofNLP, in particular, document classification,information retrieval, question answering andspeech understanding.References1.
Huang, J. K. 1985.
The Input and Output of Chineseand Japanese Characters.
IEEE Computer, 18(1):18-24.2.
Chang, J.S., S.D.
Chern and C.D.
Chen.
1991.
Conver-sion of Phonemic -Input to Chinese Text Through Con-straint Satisfaction.
Proceedings of ICCPOL'91, 30-36.3.
Hsu, W. L. and K.J.
Chen.
1993.
The Semantic Analy-sis in GOING - An Intelligent Chinese Input System.Proceedings of the Second Joint Conference of Com-putational Linguistics, Shiamen, 338-343.4.
Hsu, W. L. and Y.S.
Chen.
1999.
On Pho-neme-to-Character Conversion Systems in ChineseProcessing.
Journal of Chinese Institute of Engineers,5:573-579.5.
Lua, K.T.
and K.W.
Gan.
1992.
A Touch-Typing Pin-yin Input System.
Computer Processing of Chinese andOriental Languages, 6:85-94.6.
Sproat, R. 1990.
An Application of Statistical Optimi-zation with Dynamic Programming to Phone-mic-Input-to-Character Conversion for Chinese.
Pro-ceedings of ROCLING III, 379-390.7.
Chen, B., H. M. Wang and L. S. Lee.
2000.
Retrieval ofbroadcast news speech in Mandarin Chinese collectedin Taiwan using syllable -level statistical characteristics.Proceedings of the 2000 International Conference onAcoustics Speech and Signal Processing.8.
Hsu, W. L. 1994.
Chinese parsing in a pho-neme-to-character conversion system based on seman-tic pattern matching.
Computer Processing of Chineseand Oriental Languages, 8(2):227-236.9.
Kuo, J. J.
1995.
Phonetic -input-to-character conversionsystem for Chinese using syntactic connection table andsemantic distance.
Computer Processing and OrientalLanguages, 10(2):195-210.10.
Lin, M. Y. and W. H. Tasi.
1987.
?Removing the am-biguity of phonetic Chinese input by the re laxationtechnique,?
Computer Processing and Oriental Lan-guages, 3(1):1-24.11.
Gu, H. Y., C. Y. Tseng and L. S. Lee.
1991.
Markovmodeling of mandarin Chinese for decoding the pho-netic sequence into Chinese characters.
ComputerSpeech and Language, 5(4):363-377.12.
Ho, T. H., K. C. Yang, J. S. Lin and L. S. Lee.
1997.Integrating long-distance language mode ling to pho-netic-to-text conversion.
Proceedings of ROCLING XInternational Conference on Computational Linguistics,287-299.13.
Fong, L. A. and K.H.
Chung.
1994.
Word Segmenta-tion for Chinese Phonetic Symbols.
Proceedings of In-ternational Computer Symposium, 911-916.14.
Chen, C. G., K. J. Chen and L. S. Lee.
1986.
A modelfor Lexical Analysis and Parsing of Chinese Sentences.Proceedings of 1986 International Conference on Chi-nese Computing, Singapore, 33-40.15.
Tsai, J. L, W. L. Hsu and J. W. Su.
2002.
Word sensedisambiguation and sense-based NV event-frame iden-tifier.
Computational Linguistics and Chinese Lan-guage Processing, 7(1):29-46.16.
Dong, Z. and Q. Dong, Hownet,http://www.keenage.com/17.
CKIP.
1995.
Technical Report no.
95-02, the contentand illustration of Sinica corpus of Academia Sinica.Institute of Information Science, Academia Sinica,http://godel.iis.sinica.edu.tw/CKIP/r_content.html18.
Mei, J. et al 1982.
Tong2Yi4Ci2Ci2Lin2 ??????
?, Shanghai Dictionary Press.19.
Taiwan?s Ministry of Education.
1998.Guo2Yu2Ci2Dian3 (Electronic Chinese Dictio nary),http://www.edu.tw/mandr/clc/dict/20.
Tsai, C. T. (2001) A Review of Chinese Word ListsAccessible on the Internet.
Chih-Hao Tsai ResearchPagehttp://www.geocities.com/hao510/wordlist/.21.
On-Line United Daily News,http://udnnews.com/NEWS/22.
Huang, C. R. et al 1996.
Readings in Chinese NaturalLanguage Processing.
Journal of Chinese Linguistics,9:1-174.
