A Methodology for Terminology-basedKnowledge Acquisition and IntegrationHideki Mima1?, Sophia Ananiadou2, Goran Nenadic2 and Junichi Tsujii11Dept.
of Information Science, University of TokyoHongo 7-3-1, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan{mima, tsujii}@is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp2Computer Science, University of SalfordNewton Building, Salford M5 4WT, UK{S.Ananiadou, G.Nenadic}@salford.ac.uk?
Current affiliation: Dept.
of Engineering, University of Tokyo, Hongo 7-3-1, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113- 8656, JapanAbstractIn this paper we propose an integrated knowledgemanagement system in which terminology-basedknowledge acquisition, knowledge integration,and XML-based knowledge retrieval arecombined using tag information and ontologymanagement tools.
The main objective of thesystem is to facilitate knowledge acquisitionthrough query answering against XML-baseddocuments in the domain of molecular biology.Our system integrates automatic term recognition,term variation management, context-basedautomatic term clustering, ontology-basedinference, and intelligent tag information retrieval.Tag-based retrieval is implemented throughinterval operations, which prove to be a powerfulmeans for textual mining and knowledgeacquisition.
The aim is to provide efficient accessto heterogeneous biological textual data anddatabases, enabling users to integrate a widerange of textual and non-textual resourceseffortlessly.IntroductionWith the recent increasing importance ofelectronic communication and data sharing overthe Internet, there exist an increasingly growingnumber of publicly accessible knowledge sources,both in the form of documents and factualdatabases.
These knowledge sources (KSs) areintrinsically heterogeneous and dynamic.
Theyare heterogeneous since they are autonomouslydeveloped and maintained by independentorganizations for different purposes.
They aredynamic since constantly new information isbeing revised, added and removed.
Such anheterogeneous and dynamic nature of KSsimposes challenges on systems that help users tolocate and integrate knowledge relevant to theirneeds.Knowledge, encoded in textual documents, isorganised around sets of specialised (technical)terms (e.g.
names of proteins, genes, acids).Therefore, knowledge acquisition relies heavilyon the recognition of terms.
However, the mainproblems that make term recognition difficult arethe lack of clear naming conventions andterminology variation (cf.
Jacquemin andTzoukermann (1999)), especially in the domainof molecular biology.
Therefore, we need ascheme to integrate terminology management asa key prerequisite for knowledge acquisition andintegration.However, automatic term extraction is not theultimate goal itself, since the large number ofnew terms calls for a systematic way to accessand retrieve the knowledge represented throughthem.
Therefore, the extracted terms need to beplaced in an appropriate framework bydiscovering relations between them, and byestablishing the links between the terms anddifferent factual databases.In order to solve the problem, severalapproaches have been proposed.
MeSH Term inMEDLINE (2002) and Gene Ontology (2002)provide a top-down controlled ontologyframework, which aims to describe and constrainthe terminology in the domain of molecularbiology.
On the other hand, automatic termacquisition approaches have been developed inorder to address a dynamic and corpus-drivenknowledge acquisition methodology (Mima et al,1999; 2001a).Different approaches to linking relevantresources have also been suggested.
TheSemantic Web framework (Berners-Lee (1998))aims to link relevant Web resources in bottom-upmanner using the Resource DescriptionFramework (RDF) (Bricklet and Guha, 2000) andan ontology.
However, although the SemanticWeb framework is powerful to express content ofresources to be semantically retrieved, somemanual description is expected using theRDF/ontology.
Since no solution to thewell-known difficulties in manual ontologydevelopment, such as the ontologyconflictions/mismatches (Visser et al, 1997) isprovided, an automated ontology management isrequired for the efficient and consistentknowledge acquisition and integration.
TAMBIS(Baker et al, 1998) tried to provide a filter frombiological information services by building ahomogenising layer on top of the differentsources using the classical mediator/wrapperarchitecture.
It intended to provide sourcetransparency using a mapping from terms placedin a conceptual knowledge base of molecularbiology onto terms in external sources.In this paper we introduce TIMS, an integratedknowledge management system in the domain ofmolecular biology, where terminology-basedknowledge acquisition (KA), knowledgeintegration (KI), and XML-based knowledgeretrieval are combined using tag information andontology management tools.
The management ofknowledge resources, similarly to the SemanticWeb, is based on XML, RDF, andontology-based inference.
However, our aim is tofacilitate the KA and KI tasks not only by usingmanually defined resource descriptions, but alsoby exploit ing NLP techniques such as automaticterm recognition (ATR) and automatic termclustering (ATC), which are used for automaticand systematic ontology population.The paper is organised as follows: in section 1we present the overall TIMS architecture andbriefly describe the components incorporated inthe system, while section 2 gives the details of theproposed method for KA and KI.
In the lastsection we present results, evaluation anddiscussion.1 TIMS ?
system architectureXML-based Tag Information ManagementSystem (TIMS) is a core machinery for managingXML tag information obtained from subfunctional components.
Its main aim is tofacilitate an efficient mechanism for KA and KIthrough a query answering system forXML-based documents in the domain ofmolecular biology, by using a tag informationdatabase.Figure 1 shows the system architecture ofTIMS.
It integrates the following modules viaXML-based data exchange: JTAG ?
anannotation tool, ATRACT ?
an automatic termrecognition and clustering workbench, and theLiLFeS abstract machine, which we brieflydescribe in this section.
ATRACT and LiLFeSplay a central role in the knowledge acquisitionprocess, which includes term recognition,ontology population, and ontology-basedinference.
In addition to these modules, TIMSimplements an XML-data manager and a TIQLquery processor (see Section 2).1.1 JTAGJTAG is an XML-based manual annotation andresource description aid tool.
Its purpose is tosupport manual annotation (e.g.
semantictagging), adjusting term recognition results,developing RDF logic, etc.
In addition, ontologyinformation described in XML can also bedeveloped and modified using the tool.
All theannotations can be managed via a GUI.1.2 ATRACTIn the domain of molecular biology, there is anincreasing amount of new terms that representnewly created concepts.
Since existing termFigure 1: System architecture of TIMSXML DataRetrievalTIMSTag Information DatabaseXML DataManagementATRACTAutomatic TermRecognitionand TermClusteringXML dataXML dataXML dataDocument/DatabaseRetrieverL iLFeSSyntactic andSemantic Parser /RDF and OntologyManagerJTAGManual ResourceDescriptionAid Interface XML datadictionaries cannot cover the needs of specialists,automatic term extraction tools are important forconsistent term discovery.
ATRACT (Mima et al,2001a) is a terminology management workbenchthat integrates ATR and ATC.
Its main aim is tohelp biologists to gather and manage terminologyin the domain.
The module retrieves andclassifies terms on the fly and sends the results asXML tag information to TIMS.The ATR method is based on the C/NC-valuemethod (Frantzi et al, 2000).
The originalmethod has been augmented with acronymacquisition and term variation management(Nenadic et al 2002), in order to link differentterms that denote the same concept.
Termvariation management is based on termnormalisation as an integral part of the ATRprocess.
All orthographic, morphological andsyntactic term variations and acronym variants (ifany) are conflated prior to the statistical analysis,so that term candidates comprise all variants thatappear in a corpus.Besides term recognition, term clustering is anindispensable component in a knowledgemanagement process (see figure 2).
Sinceterminological opacity and polysemy are verycommon in molecular biology, term clustering isessential for the semantic integration of terms,the construction of domain ontology and forchoosing the appropriate semantic information.The ATC method is based on Ushioda?s AMI(Average Mutual Information)-hierarchicalclustering method (Ushioda, 1996).
Ourimplementation uses parallel symmetricprocessing for high speed clustering and is builton the C/NC-value results.
As input, we useco-occurrences of automatically recognisedterms and their contexts, and the output is adendrogram of hierarchical term clusters (like athesaurus).
The calculated term clusterinformation is stored in LiLFeS (see below) andcombined with a predefined ontology accordingto the term classes automatically assigned.1.3 LiLFeSLiLFeS (Miyao et al, 2000) is a Prolog-likeprogramming language and language processorused for defining definite clause programs withtyped feature structures.
Since typed featurestructures can be used like first order terms inProlog, the LiLFeS language can describevarious kinds of applications based on featurestructures.
Examples include HPSG parsers,HPSG-based grammars and compilers fromHPSG to CFG.
Furthermore, other NLP modulescan be easily developed because feature structureprocessing can be directly written in the LiLFeSlanguage.
Within TIMS, LiLFeS is used to: 1)infer similarity between terms using hierarchicalmatching, and 2) parse sentences usingHPSG-based parsers and convert the results intoan XML-based formalism.2 Knowledge Integration and ManagementKnowledge integration and management inTIMS is organised by integrating XML-datamanagement (section 2.1) and tag- andontology-based information extraction (section2.2).
Figure 3 illustrates a model of theknowledge management based on the knowledgeintegration and question-answering processwithin TIMS.
In this scenario, a user formulates aquery, which is processed by a query manager.The tag data manager retrieves the relevant datafrom the collection of documents via a tagdatabase and ontology-based inference (such asPOS TaggerAcronym RecognitionC-value ATROrthographic VariantsMorphological VariantsSyntactic VariantsNC-value AnalyzerTerm Clustering(Semantic Analyzer)XML Documents IncludingTerm Tags and TermVariation/Class InformationInput DocumentsFigure 2.
Term Ontology DevelopmentRecognition of TermVariations (synonyms)Recognition of TermClasses (Similar Terms)hierarchical matching of term classes).2.1 XML-tag data managementCommunication within TIMS is based onXML-data exchange.
TIMS initially parses theXML documents (which contain relevantterminology information generated automaticallyby ATRACT) and ?de-tags?
them.
Then, like inthe TIPSTER architecture (Grishman, 1995),every tag information is stored separately fromthe original documents and managed by anexternal database software.
This facility allows,as shown in figure 4, different types of tags (POS,syntactic, semantic, etc.)
for the same documentto be supported.2.2 Tag- and ontology-based IEThe key feature of KA and KI within TIMS is afacility to logically retrieve data that isrepresented by different tags.
This feature isimplemented via interval operations.
The mainassumption is that the XML tags specify certainintervals within documents.
Interval operationsare XML specific text/data retrieval operations,which operate on such textual intervals.
Eachinterval operation takes two sets of intervals asinput and returns a set of intervals according tothe specified logical operations.
Currently, wedefine four types of logical operations:?
Intersection ???
returns intersected intervalsof all the intervals given.?
Union ???
returns merged intervals of all theintersected intervals.?
Subtraction ?y?
returns differences inintervals of all the intersected intervals.?
Concatenation ?+?
returns concatenatedintervals of all the continuous intervals.For example, the interval operation 1<VP>?
(<V>?<term>) describes all verb(<V>)-term (<term>) pairs within a verb phrase(<VP>).
Similarly, suppose X denotes a set ofintervals of manually annotated tags for adocument and Y denotes a set of intervals ofautomatically annotated tags for the samedocument.
The interval operation ((X?Y)?
{X?Y}) results in the differences betweenhuman and machine annotations (see figure 5).Interval operations are powerful means fortextual mining from different sources using taginformation.
In addition, LiLFeS enables tag(interval) retrieval to process not only regular1 ???
denotes a merged set of all the elements.Figure 3: Question-answering process in TIMSDatabaseAAAAAAXML / HTMLKnowledgeSourcesTag DataLanguageAnalyzerTag DataManagerTIQLProcessorNLP ComponentsTIMSQuery to TIQLTranslatorQueryATRACTOntologyDataAAAAAALiLFeSKnowledge AcquisitionKnowledge Integration?26 15 VERB?110 100 ADJ?
150 140 DNA?
?
?
?..?
209 203 RNA?
10 5 NOUN.
.
.
end start Tag?35 15 VP?100 35 PP?150 100 VP?
?
?
?..?
209 203 NP?10 5 NP.
.
.
end start TagFigure 4: Tag data managementPart-of-speech tags?80 40 PROTEIN?180 160 DNA?220 200 DNA?
?
?
?..
?260 240 RNA?18 5 DNA.
.
.
end start TagSemantic tagsSyntactic tagsX = {                                                           }Y = {                                                            }X?Y  = {                                                              }?
{X?Y}={}(X?Y) ?
{X?Y}={}Figure 5.
(X?Y) ?
{X ?Y}pattern/string matching using tag information,but also the ontological hierarchy matching tosubordinate classes using either predefined orautomatically derived term ontology.
Thus,semantically-based tag information retrieval canbe achieved.
For example, the interval operation2<VP>?<nucleic_acid*> will retrieve allsubordinate terms/classes of nucleic acid, whichare contained within a VP.The interval operations can be performed overthe specified documents and/or tag sets (e.g.syntactic, semantic tags, etc.)
simultaneously orin batch mode, by selecting the documents/tagsets from a list.
This accelerates the process ofKA, as users are able to retrieve information frommultiple KSs simultaneously.2.3 TIQL - Tag Information Query LanguageIn order to integrate and expand the abovecomponents, we have developed a taginformation query language (TIQL).
Using thislanguage, a user can specify the intervaloperations to be performed on selecteddocuments (including the ontology inference toexpand queries).
The basic expression in TIQLhas the following form:SELECT [n-tuple variables]FROM [XML document(s)]WHERE [interval operation]FROM [XML document(s)]WHERE [interval operation]?
?where, [n-tuple variables] specifies thetable output format, [XML document(s)]denotes the document(s) to be processed, and[interval operation] denotes an intervaloperation to be performed over the correspondingdocument with variables of each interval to bebound.For example, the following expression:SELECT   x1, x2FROM   ?paper-1.xml?WHERE<VP>?
{x1:<EVENT*>?x2:<nucleic_acid*>}FROM   ?paper-2.xml?WHERE<VP>?
{x1:<EVENT*>?x2:<nucleic_acid*>}2 ?*?
denotes hierarchical matching.extracts all the hierarchically subordinate classesmatched to (<EVENT>, <nucleic_acid>) pairwithin a VP from the specified XML-documents,and then automatically builds a table to displaythe results (see figure 6).Since formulating an appropriate TIQLexpression using interval operations might becumbersome, in particular for novice users,TIMS was augmented with a capability of?recycling?
predefined queries and macros.3 Evaluation and discussionWe have conducted preliminary experimentsusing the proposed framework.
In this paper webriefly present the quality of automatic termrecognition and similarity measure calculationvia automatically clustered terms.
After that, wediscuss the practical performance of tagmanipulation in TIMS compared to string-basedXML tag manipulation to show the advantage ofthe tag information management scheme.The term recognition evaluation was performedon the NACSIS AI-domain corpus (Koyama etal., 1998), which includes 1800 abstracts and on aset of MEDLINE abstracts.
Table 1 shows asample of extracted terms and term variants.
TheATR precisions of the top 100 intervals rangefrom 93% to 98% (see figure 7; for detailedevaluation, see Mima et al (2001b) and Nenadicet al (2002)).TitleBackground........<DNA>androgenreceptor gene</DNA>...............paper-2.xmlTitleBackground........<RNA>HB-EGFmRNA</RNA>...............paper-1.xmlnucleic_acidnucleic acid EVENTEVENTandrogen receptorgene acid HB-EGF mRNA...activatebind...Figure 6.
Ontology-based TaggedInformation Retrievalterms (and term variants) term-hoodretinoic acid receptorretinoic acid receptorretinoic acid receptorsRAR, RARs6.33nuclear receptornuclear receptornuclear receptorsNR, NRs6.00all-trans retionic acidall trans retionic acidall-trans-retinoic acidsATRA, at-RA, atRA4.759-cis-retinoic acid9-cis retinoic acid9cRA, 9-c-RA4.25Table 1: Sample of recognised terms8590951002.65-3.99 4.00-5.99 6.00-TopC-valueprecisionFigure 7: ATR interval precisionFor term clustering and tag manipulationperformance we used the GENIA resources(GENIA corpus, 2002), which include 1,000MEDLINE abstracts (MEDLINE, 2002), withoverall 40,000 (16,000 distinct) semantic tagsannotated for terms in the domain of nuclearreceptors.
We used the similarity measurecalculation as the central computing mechanismfor inferring the relevance between the XML tagsand tags specified in the TIQL/interval operation,determining the most relevant tags in theXML-based KS(s).
As a gold standard, we usedsimilarities between the terms that werecalculated according to the hierarchy of theclustered terms according to the GENIAontology.
In this experiment, we have adopted asemantic similarity calculation method formeasuring the similarity between terms describedin (Oi et al, 1997).
The three major sets ofclasses (namely, nucleic_acid, amino_acid,SOURCE) of manually classified terms fromGENIA ontology (GENIA corpus, 2002) wereused to calculate the average similarities (AS) ofthe elements.
ASs of the elements within thesame classes were greater than the ASs betweenelements from different classes, which provesthat the terms were clustered reliably accordingto their semantic features.In order to examine the tag manipulationperformance of TIMS, we measured theprocessing times consumed for executing aninterval operation in TIMS compared to the timeneeded by using string-based regular expressionmatching (REM).
We focused on measuring theinterval operation ???
with intervals (tags)<title> and <term> (i.e.
extracting all termswithin titles).
In the evaluation process, we used5 different samples to examine IE performancesaccording to their size (namely the number oftags and file size in Kb).Sample1 Sample2 Sample3 Sample4 Sample5TIMS(millisec.)
16 28 40 44 62REM(millisec.)
24 38 58 80 104# of tags 1146 2383 3730 4799 5876Size(K bytes) 92 191 298 382 470Table 2: TIMS - practical performanceTable 2 and Figure 8 show the results: theprocessing times of TIMS were about 1.4-1.8times faster (depending on number of tags andcorpus length) than those of REM.
Therefore, weassume that the TIMS tag informationmanagement scheme can be considered as anefficient mechanism to facilitate knowledgeacquisition and information extraction process.0204060801001200 2000 4000 6000# of tagstime(milli sec.
)TIMSREMFigure 8.
IE performance (TIMS vs. REM)ConclusionIn this paper, we presented a methodology forKA and KI over large KSs.
We described TIMS,an XML-based integrated KA aid system, inwhich we have integrated automatic termrecognition, term clustering, tagged datamanagement and ontology-based knowledgeretrieval.
TIMS allows users to search andcombine information from various sources.
Animportant source of information in the system isderived from terminological knowledge, which isprovided automatically in the XML format.Tag-based retrieval is implemented throughinterval operations, which ?
in combination withhierarchical matching ?
prove to be powerfulmeans for textual mining and knowledgeacquisition.The system has been tested in the domain ofmolecular biology.
The preliminary experimentsshow that the TIMS tag information managementscheme is an efficient methodology to facilitateKA and IE in specialised fields.Important areas of future research will involveexpanding the scalability of the system to realWWW knowledge acquisition tasks andexperiments with fine-grained termclassification.ReferencesBaker P. G., Brass A., Bechhofer S., Goble C., PatonN.
and Stevens R. (1998) TAMBIS: TransparentAccess to Multiple Bioinformatics InformationSources.
An Overview in Proc.
of the SixthInternational Conference on Intelligent Systems forMolecular Biology, ISMB98, Montreal.Berners-Lee, T. (1998) The Semantic Web as alonguage of logic, available at: http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/Logic.htmlBrickle, D. and Guha R. (2000) Resource DescriptionFramework (RDF) Schema Specification 1.0, W3CCandidate Recommendation, available athttp://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schemaFrantzi K. T., Ananiadou S. and Mima H. (2000)Automatic Recognition of Multi-Word Terms: theC-value/NC-value method, in International Journalon Digital Libraries, Vol.
3, No.
2, 115?130.Gene Ontology Consortium (2002) GO ontology.available at  http:// www.geneontology.org/GENIA corpus (2002) GENIA project home page.http://www-tsujii.is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/GENIA/Grishman R (1995) TIPSTER Phase II ArchitectureDesign Document.
New York University, availableat http://www.tipster.org/arch.htmJacquemin C. and Tzoukermann E. (1999) NLP forTerm Variant Extraction: A Synergy of Morphology,Lexicon and Syntax.
In T. Strzalkowski (editor),Natural Language Information Retrieval, Kluwer,Boston, pp.
25-74.Koyama T., Yoshioka M. and Kageura K. (1998) TheConstruction of a Lexically Motivated Corpus - TheProblem with Defining Lexical Unit.
In Proceedingsof LREC 1998, Granada, Spain, pp.
1015?1019.MEDLINE (2002) National Library of Medicine,http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/PubMed/Mima H., Ananiadou S. and Nenadic G. (2001a)ATRACT Workbench: An Automatic TermRecognition and Clustering of Te rms, in Text,Speech and Dialogue - TSD2001, Lecture Notes inAI 2166, Springer VerlagMima H. and Ananiadou S. (2001b) An Applicationand Evaluation of the C/NC-value Approach for theAutomatic term Recognition of Multi-Word units inJapanese, in International Journal on Terminology,Vol.
6(2), pp 175-194.Mima H., Ananiadou S. and Tsujii J.
(1999) AWeb-based integrated knowledge mining aidsystem using term-oriented natural languageprocessing, in Proceedings of The 5th NaturalLanguage Processing Pacific Rim Symposium,NLPRS'99, pp.
13?18.Miyao Y., Makino T., Torisawa K. and Tsujii J.
(2000) The LiLFeS abstract machine and itsevaluation with the LinGO grammar.
Journal ofNatural Language Engineering, CambridgeUniversity Press, Vol.
6(1), pp.47-62.Nenadic G., Spasic I. and Ananiadou S. (2002)Automatic Acronym Acquisition and TermVariation Management within Domain SpecificTexts, in Proc.
of LREC 2002, Las Palmas, Spain,pp.
2155-2162.Oi K., Sumita E. and Iida H. (1997) DocumentRetrieval Method Using Semantic Similarity andWord Sense Disambiguation (in Japanese), inJournal of Natural Language Processing, Vol.4,No.3, pp.51-70.Visser P.R.S., Jones D.M., Bench-Capon T.J.M.
andShave M.J.R.
(1997) An Analysis of OntologyMismatches; Heterogeneity versus Interoperability.In AAAI 1997 Spring Symposium on OntologicalEngineering, Stanford University, California, USA.Ushioda A.
(1996) Hierarchical Clustering of Words.In Proc.
of COLING ?96, Copenhagen
