Computation of modifier scope in NP by a language-neutral methodRichard CAMPBELLMicrosoft Research1 Microsoft WayRedmond, WA, USA 98052richcamp@microsoft.comAbstractThe relative logical scope of multiplemodifiers within NP is often semanticallysignificant.
This paper proposes a structurallybased method for computing the relative scopeof such modifiers, based on their order, type,and syntactic complexity.
The algorithm islanguage-neutral, in that it works withminimal errors for a wide range of languageswithout language-specific stipulations.IntroductionNoun phrases quite commonly have multiplemodifiers, including quantifiers, attributiveadjective phrases, relative clauses, possessors,appositives and the like.
As frequently noted in theliterature (e.g., Shaw and Hatzivassiloglou, 1999),the linear order of modifiers can signify theirlogical scope (though other factors are involved,too), as in the English examples (1) and (2)(bracketing indicates logical scope):(1) my [favorite [new movie]](2) my [new [favorite movie]]In (1) favorite modifies the phrase new movie;hence the NP refers to my favorite among the newmovies (there may be an old movie I like better); in(2) new modifies favorite movie; hence the NPrefers to my favorite movie, which has just becomemy favorite.The computation of the scope of modifiers isof inherent linguistic interest:  it is necessary fordetermining the correct interpretation of NPs like(1) and (2).
It follows that it is potentially useful inany application that may depend on such aninterpretation.
In addition, for multilingualapplications such as transfer-based machinetranslation (MT) (as discussed for example byRichardson et al (2001)) modifier scope may itselfbe used as an abstract, language-neutralrepresentation of their surface configuration,including linear order.
The generation componentof the MT application could then make use ofscope information, perhaps in addition toscope-independent ordering conventions (Malouf,2000), to generate the modifiers in the correctorder.The focus of the current paper is a method forcomputing the relative scope of modifiers based onstructural information, which works independentlyof any particular language; that is, the samealgorithm that computes the scope of the modifiersin the English NP (3)  also correctly computesmodifier scope in (4), its French translation, eventhough the two examples do not have exactlyparallel surface structures:(3) the [twenty-ninth [American state]](4) le [vingt-neuvi?me [?tat am?ricain]]the twenty-ninth      state AmericanThe proposed algorithm considers severalstructural factors in addition to linear order,including the type and internal structure of themodifiers themselves.
The algorithm describedhere is currently implemented in the NLPWinsystem at Microsoft Research (Heidorn, 2000).The paper is organized as follows:  Section 1examines the various structural factors thatdetermine modifier scope, and a preliminaryalgorithm for modifier scope assignment isproposed; in Section 2, we compare the predictionsof the algorithm to a diverse set of examples fromsix languages, and propose a revised algorithm;Section 3 considers some related work; andSection 4 is a conclusion.1 Modifier scopeEnglish examples like (1) and (2) seem to showthat linear order is a principal factor in determiningthe scope of modifiers.
Examination of a widerrange of examples from a variety of languagesmakes it clear that matters are not that simple.
Inthis section, we explore some ways in which strictlinear order is not sufficient to determine the scopeof modifiers.1.1 Order of postnominal modifiersStrictly speaking, linear order plays only anindirect role in scope assignment, the relevantordering factor being distance from the head noun:all else being equal, modifiers that are farther fromthe head noun in the surface structure have scopeover modifiers that are closer to the head.Linear order plays a different role indetermining scope, depending on whether themodifiers precede or follow the head noun; this isillustrated by the Spanish examples (5) and (6):(5) una [[moneda americana] falsa]a        coin      American   counterfeit?a counterfeit American coin?
(6) una [[moneda falsa] americana]?an American counterfeit coin?The NPs in (5) and (6) differ only in modifier orderand indeed this reflects their relative scope; butunlike the prenominal modifiers in (1) and (2), thepostnominal modifiers in (5) and (6) have a scopeorder that is the reverse of their linear order:  (5)refers to an American coin that is counterfeit, e.g.
afake half-dollar, perhaps produced in Canada; (6)refers to a counterfeit coin from America, e.g.
afake Canadian dollar produced in the U.S.The difference in the way that linear order ofpre- and postnominal modifiers determines scopemakes it clear that in a multilingual applicationsuch as MT, it is not sufficient merely to record theorder of modifiers, since the order must bereversed going e.g.
from Spanish to English.
Amore straightforward way to record theinformation stored in the linear order of modifiersin the source language would be to record theirrelative distance from the head noun.
Given thefrequent occurrence in many languages of NPswith both pre- and postnominal modifiers, as in (4),above, this can only be accomplished by recordingthe logical scope of the modifiers.1.2 Quantifier-like adjectivesRelative distance from the head is only obvious incases of multiple prenominal or multiplepostnominal modifiers.
In many languages,however, it is relatively common for an NP tocontain both pre- and postnominal modifiers, as in(4).
In such a case, the notion of relative distancefrom the head is unavailable as a guide to relativescope.
The following examples illustrate theproblem:(7) the [heaviest [isotope found in nature]](8) a [[new domain] devoted to insects andworms]The prenominal adjective in (7) has wider scopethan the postnominal participial phrase; thus theNP refers to the heaviest member of the set ofisotopes of some element that are found in nature,and not e.g.
to the heaviest isotope overall of thatelement.
In (8) on the other hand, the postnominalparticipial phrase has wider scope than theprenominal adjective:  the NP refers to a newdomain or classification (invertebrates), which isdevoted to insects and worms, and not, e.g., to anew member of the set of domains so devoted.The relevant difference between theseexamples is the prenominal modifier:  superlatives,along with comparatives, ordinals, certain otheradjectives that are quantifier- or determiner-like,such as another, certain, numerous, and only (allthe preceding are henceforth referred to as ?q-likeadjectives?
), along with quantifiers take widerscope than most postnominal modifiers, whileeveryday modifiers like new generally takenarrower scope when prenominal.
Assuming thatthe class of q-like adjectives can be identified, ascope assignment algorithm needs to take this intoaccount as well.1.3 Nonrestrictive postnominal modifiersNonrestrictive modifiers generally take very widescope, typically having wider scope than anyrestrictive modifiers or quantifiers; compare (7),above, with (9):(9) the [[heaviest isotope], which is found innature]Unlike (7), this NP does refer to the heaviestisotope (of some element), and not just to theheaviest isotope found in nature, because thenonrestrictive relative clause has wider scope thanthe prenominal adjective.In English and other languages, nonrestrictivepostnominal relative clauses, adjective phrases,and participial clauses are easily identifiable by thepreceding comma or other structural cues.Whether a modifier is restrictive or nonrestrictiveis clearly relevant to the computation of its scoperelative to other modifiers; however in somelanguages, notably German and Japanese, there areoften no reliable structural cues to whether arelative clause is restrictive or not.
This part of thescope computation algorithm can therefore only beexpected to work in languages where thisinformation is available in the input.1.4 Competing principles of scopeassignmentIn most cases, the various principles of scopeassignment outlined in this section are not inconflict.
For instance, q-like adjectives, whenprenominal, typically precede other prenominaladjectives.
In some cases this is not true, however,and in many such cases, relative distance from thehead noun is a principle of last resort only.
A goodillustration of this fact comes from Japanese,where all relative clauses are prenominal, andoften precede other prenominal modifiers, such asadjective phrases and quantifiers; this is illustratedby the following examples:(10) higai-ni          a-tta   shuyou-na    toshidamage-DAT encountered  major-ADN cities'major cities that were damaged?
(11) sakana-ga  tabe-ru    arayuru esafish-NOM eat-PRES all         bait'all bait which fish eat'In (10) the relative clause has wider scope than thefollowing adjective, but in (11) the quantifierarayuru ?all?
has wider scope than the precedingrelative clause.
The principle that such adjectivesand quantifiers are assigned wider scope takesprecedence over the principle that assigns scope onthe basis of relative distance from the head noun.1.5 Algorithm for computing modifierscope ?
First passBased on these observations, a simple,language-neutral algorithm can be formulated tocompute modifier scope based on structural factors.As a first step, we factor all modifiers into threecategories:  nonrestrictive modifiers, quantifiersand q-like adjectives, and other modifiers.
Forpractical purposes, nonrestrictive modifiers arelimited to postnominal relative clauses, adjectivephrases, and participial clauses, that have somestructural indication of their nonrestrictiveness,such as being preceded by a comma; in principle,however, any nonrestrictive modifier should fallinto this category.
Q-like adjectives includecomparatives, superlatives, ordinals, and modifiers(e.g.
only) that are marked in the dictionary asbeing able to occur before a determiner.
Also, if aq-like adjective is prenominal, then any otheradjective that precedes it is treated as if it wereq-like; if the q-like adjective is postnominal, thenany other adjective that follows it is treated as ifq-like.
In this paper, PPs, possessors andappositive NPs are not treated.
The algorithm isdescribed in (I):I. Computation of modifier scope1.
nonrestrictive modifiers have wider scopethan all other groups;2. quantifiers and q-like adjectives havewider scope than other modifiers notcovered in (I.1);3. within each group, assign wider scope topostnominal modifiers over prenominalmodifiers;4. among postnominal modifiers in the samegroup, or among prenominal modifiers inthe same group, assign wider scope tomodifiers farther from the head noun.Consider the NP in (12), which, though awkward,will serve as illustration of how (I) works:(12) [[two [other [[counterfeit [American coins]]produced here]]], which I saved]The nonrestrictive (set off by commas) relativeclause which I saved is assigned widest scope by(I.1); the quantifier two and the q-like adjectiveother have wider scope than the remainingmodifiers (I.2), and two has wider scope than other(I.4); the participial clause produced here haswider scope than counterfeit and American (I.3);finally, counterfeit has wider scope than American(I.4).For a more realistic illustration, consider again(3) and (4), repeated here:(3) the [twenty-ninth [American state]](4) le [vingt-neuvi?me [?tat am?ricain]]the twenty-ninth      state AmericanIn both (3) and (4), the ordinal is assigned widerscope than American/am?ricain, regardless of thelatter?s position in the NP, by principle (I.2).Finally, consider again (5), repeated here:(5) una [[moneda americana] falsa]a        coin       American   falseBy (I.4), falsa is assigned wider scope thanamericana.2 Examination of broader range ofexamplesThe algorithm in (I) is motivated by a small set ofexamples; a broader range of examples is neededto really determine whether (I), and especially itsclaim to language-neutrality, is viable.
Thepurpose is not to provide a statistical measure ofthe accuracy of the algorithm, but simply toprovide a set of examples that is larger, morediverse and more realistic than could have beendevised by introspection.2.1 Testing (I)Initial sets of examples from six languages,Chinese, English, French, German, Japanese andSpanish, were collected; the Chinese exampleswere taken from Du Zhe (?Reader?
), for all otherlanguages, the examples were taken from EncartaEncyclopedia.
To be selected, sentences had tocontain an NP with exactly one prenominal andone postnominal modifier (thus (I.4) was notdirectly tested).
Several hundred such exampleswere then given to teams of two native speakerlinguists per language to determine (a) whether itmade any difference which modifier was assignedwider scope, and (b) if so, which one had widerscope; for an NP to make it into the final set ofexamples, both annotators had to agree on both (a)and (b).
Annotators aimed for approximately 100examples for which the answer to (a) was positive;in practice, between 50 and 100 examples for eachlanguage made it into the final set.The annotated examples were then analyzedusing the NLPWin system, which incorporates thisalgorithm, the results manually compared to theannotations, and differences (errors) examined.
Insome cases, errors could be attributed tomisanalysis or other deficiencies of the system,independently of the scope assignment algorithm;these might include syntactic errors (e.g.
Englishcourt favorite analyzed with court as the headnoun and favorite as a postnominal adjective), orlexical/morphological problems (e.g.
Sp.numeroso ?numerous?
not recognized as aquantifier, failure to treat Fr.
Premier ministre as asingle noun, etc.).
Overall, the results were quitegood for English (3 errors in 97 examples,including system errors), German (6/81) andChinese (2/66), mediocre for Spanish (13/60) andJapanese (15/59), and poor for French (46/78).In addition to system errors, certain patternsemerged.
The most obvious one was that, in manylanguages, prenominal adjectives meaning ?same?or ?different?, which should take wider scope thana nonrestrictive postnominal modifier, wereassigned narrower scope according to (I.3); a goodexample from Spanish is given below:(13) el [mismo [a?o que contrajo matrimonio conCarmen Polo]]?the same year that he contracted marriagewith Carmen Polo?Adjectives meaning ?same?, ?different?
and ?other?have much in common with comparatives; forexample, English same, different, and other cantake as- or than-complements.
Our system doesnot currently encode this similarity in anysystematic way, but if it did so, examples like (13)would be handled correctly by (I.2).12.2 Syntactic complexityAn unexpected pattern among the errors, however,had to do with the internal structure of postnominalmodifiers.
The French examples (14) and (15)have the same prenominal adjective:(14) de [nouvelles [valeurs culturelles]]new         values  cultural?new cultural values?
(15) un [[nouveau domaine] consacr?
auxinsectes et aux vers]?a new domain devoted to insects andworms?The relevant difference in this case is in thepostnominal modifier:  in (14), the postnominaladjective is syntactically simple, containing nosyntactic dependents of its own, while in (15) thepostnominal participial clause is complex,containing a complement prepositional phrase.
(I.3) incorrectly assigns wider scope to thepostnominal modifier than to the prenominalmodifier in (14); an unexpectedly large proportionof the French and Spanish errors from this exampleset were of this type.This leads to a revision of the scopeassignment algorithm that treats syntacticallysimple (unmodified) postnominal modifiers as aspecial case, getting assigned narrower scope thanregular prenominal modifiers:II.
Computation of modifier scope, revised1.
nonrestrictive modifiers have wider scopethan all other groups;2. quantifiers and q-like adjectives havewider scope than other modifiers notcovered in (II.1);3. syntactically complex postnominalmodifiers that are not relative clauses have1 The special status of such adjectives has been noted inother contexts:  For example, Hawkins (1978) groupssame together with superlatives into a class of?unexplanatory?
modifiers; Vieira and Poesio (2000),extending this class to include only and a few others,make use of them in identifying discourse-new definitedescriptions.wider scope than other modifiers notcovered by (II.1-2);4.  prenominal modifiers not covered by(II.1-3) have wider scope than othermodifiers not covered by (II.1-3);5. otherwise, within each group, assign widerscope to postnominal modifiers overprenominal modifiers;6. among postnominal modifiers in the samegroup, or among prenominal modifiers inthe same group, assign wider scope tomodifiers farther from the head noun.The difference between (I) and (II) is in (II.3) and(II.4), which ensure that syntactically complexpostnominal modifiers have wider scope thannon-quantificational prenominal ones, and thatprenominal modifiers have wider scope thansyntactically simple postnominal ones.
In this case,?syntactically complex?
means (a) if not acoordinate structure, then there are non-headconstituents; and (b) if a coordinate structure, thenat least one of the conjuncts is syntacticallycomplex.Implementing the revised algorithm (II) intothe system reduced the number of French andSpanish errors in the example set considerably:French went from 46 errors in 78 examples to 2;Spanish went from 13/60 to 5; all other languagesremained essentially the same.To ensure that the revision from (I) to (II) wasnot tailored specifically to the example set, asecond set of randomly selected examples wereannotated as before; the examples were thenanalyzed using the system incorporating (II), andthe results compared to the annotation.2.3 DiscussionThe results bear out the essential correctness of (II),while at the same time highlighting areas in whichfurther refinement is possible.
For each languagethere were just a handful of errors in this exampleset :  Chinese had 3 in 57 total examples, English10/98, French 4/55, German 4/45, Spanish 8/96and Japanese 8/55.
Since the test is not meant to bea statistical measure of accuracy, it is important toexamine the errors.
Two English and two Spanisherrors were system errors of the kind described inSection 2.1.
The problem of identifyingnonrestrictive relative clauses arose as well,accounting for one English and one German error,and possibly all the Japanese errors.Of the remainder, both the French and Spanishsets contained errors which suggest simplemodifications to (II), e.g.
where both theprenominal and postnominal modifiers were q-like,and for which (II.5) incorrectly assigns widerscope to the postnominal.
Another error that couldbe handled by a simple refinement of (II) is Sp.
losgrandes reba?os de ovejas no estabulados, ?the largeunstabled herds of sheep?
; in this case thepostnominal adjective phrase no estabulados istreated as syntactically complex, and incorrectlyassigned scope wider than grandes by (II.3); it seemssimple enough to modify (II.3) to take account ofnegative morphemes and the like.Another category of error that suggests a furtherrefinement is suggested by the Spanish example (16)and by English (17):(16) una [[quinta cl?usula] que no tuvo efecto]a        fifth    clause    that not took effect(17) [[longer poems] written from 1789 on]In both cases, (II.2) incorrectly assigns widerscope to the prenominal adjective than to thepostnominal one.
Examples such as these suggestthat q-like adjectives, or at least comparatives andordinals, should be treated as in (II.2) (i.e., astaking wider scope than other modifiers) only inNPs that are definite.
One Spanish, one English,and two German examples of this kind occurred inthis example set; since there are not many errors ofthis kind, it is not clear how much would be gainedfrom this modification.Aside from such systematic errors, the Frenchset contained only one error that is irredeemable;i.e., which (II) could not handle even with perfectinput, without being supplemented by lexicallyspecific, and hence language-specific, rules; theSpanish set contained only three irredeemableerrors; English had three, and German one.While it is worth noting that (II) is not withoutcounterexamples, it is significant that truecounterexamples are evidently rare enough inactually occuring text, at least when compared toexamples for which (II) predicts the correct scopeassignment, that (II) appears to be very promisingas a means for computing modifier scope inarbitrary languages.2.4 Why complexity?It is not clear exactly why the syntactic complexityof a postnominal modifier affects its scope relativeto other modifiers in NP.
It may be significant thatpostnominal modifiers that are themselvesmodified tend to be participial or relative clauses,rather than adjective phrases.
Participial andrelative clauses are always intersecting in theirinterpretation, meaning that the denotation of thenoun + modifier construction is the intersection ofthe set denoted by the noun and the set denoted bythe modifier;  adjectives, on the other hand, areoften non-intersecting (Keenan and Faltz, 1985).It is possible then that a deeper principle underlies(II.3), namely that intersecting modifiers takewider scope than non-intersecting ones.It remains to be explained why prenominaladjectives typically take wider scope thansyntactically simple postnominal ones.
Onepossible explanation is that N + unmodified Adjcombinations, such as Fr.
valeurs culturelles in(14), are often analyzed by native speakers as akind of compound; i.e., as though the Adj wereincorporated into the N to form a complex word.Typically the parts of a complex word cannotbe individually syntactically modified.
It is to beexpected, then, that a prenominal modifier such asnouvelles in (14) would be unable to modifyvaleurs by itself, but must modify the wholecompound.
Moreover, it is to be expected that theadjective in the N + Adj compound could not havemodifiers.
Consequently, a noun + [adjective + PP]construction, such as Fr.
huiles originaires desr?gions m?diterran?ennes ?oils originating frommediterranean regions?, could not be analyzed as acompound; instead the postnominal adjectivephrase would have to be a true phrasal modifier,taking wider scope than a prenominal modifiersuch as c?l?bres ?famous?, according to the generalprinciples in (II).This account is purely speculative, of course,and thus far untested.
Other kinds of explanationfor (II.3) are possible as well, but limitations ofspace preclude substantial discussion of this issue.3 Related workCopestake et al (1995) briefly address the issue ofadjective scope in an NP such as a fierce black cat.Since both adjectives are intersecting in this case,their relative scope is semantically irrelevant (ablack fierce cat, though infelicitous, would meanthe same thing).
Since a translation of this NPmight have a different structure, e.g.
Spanish gatoferoz y negro lit.
?cat fierce and black?, Copestakeet al argue that the logical form (LF) for such anNP ought to be flattened (i.e., no scope assigned tothe adjectives), so as to ensure that the NP and itstranslation do not have syntactically different LFs,which is required for system-internal reasons.If this conclusion is justified, it poses aproblem for the approach taken in this paper, since(II) assigns wider scope to fierce.
Mostdictionaries do not mark adjectives according towhether they are intersecting or not, nor do weknow of any large corpora that are annotated in thisway; therefore, it seems unlikely that (II) could bereliably turned off just in those cases where scopeassignment is logically unnecessary.Copestake et al?s conclusion is based on thesystem-internal assumption that transfer-based MTrequires the LF of the input (e.g.
gato feroz y negro)to have the same syntactic structure as the LF ofthe output (e.g.
fierce black cat).
However, atransfer-based MT system in which transfer rulesare learned from aligned corpora, such asdescribed by Richardson et al (2001), does nothave this requirement; hence the problemCopestake et al discuss does not arise.4 ConclusionThe fact that (II) works so well across a variety oflanguages is of inherent linguistic interest, as itsuggests that the cross-linguistic variation in wordorder within NP, while considerable, isnevertheless subject to universal principles thatenable the relative scope of modifiers to berecovered.
These principles take accountprimarily of the type of modifier, but also of theirplacement relative to one another and, at least inthe case of postnominal restrictive modifiers, theirinternal structure, assigning wider scope tomodifiers that are themselves modified, perhapsbecause they are intersecting.
Application of thealgorithm to more languages would of course berequired to fully substantiate this claim.The success of (II) is of substantial practicalinterest, as well, since it does not makeunreasonable demands on the.
For example,although (II.3) may ultimately derive from adeeper principle that assigns wider scope tointersecting modifiers, it is not necessary toidentify modifiers as (non-)intersecting for (II.3) towork, since syntactic complexity works wellenough.
To work correctly, (II) requiresquantifiers to be distinguished from adjectives,adjectives to be identified as superlative,comparative, ordinal or as able to occur before adeterminer, and postnominal modifiers to bemarked as nonrestrictive.
The first tworequirements are reasonable things to expect ofany parser; the third requirement is not easily metin all languages, but even in those languages wherenonrestrictives are not easily identifiable, (II)works reasonable well.AcknowledgementsI would like to thank my colleagues in the NLPgroup at MSR, especially Mike Carlson andHisami Suzuki, for their help.ReferencesCopestake A., Flickinger D., Malouf R., Riehemann S.and Sag I.
(1995) Translation using MinimalRecursion Semantics.
In ?Proceedings of TMI 6,?Leuven, Belgium.Hawkins J.
(1978) Definiteness and Indefiniteness.Croom Helm, London, 316 p.Heidorn G.E.
(2000) Intelligent Writing Assistance.
In?Handbook of Natural Language Processing?, R.Dale et al, ed., Marcel Dekker, New York, pp.181-207.Keenan E.L. and Faltz L.M.
(1985) Boolean Semanticsfor Natural Language.
D. Reidel Publishing Co.,Dordrecht, 387 p.Malouf R. (2000) The order of prenominal adjectives innatural language generation.
In ?Proceedings of the38th Annual Meeting of the ACL,?
pp.
85-92.Richardson S., Dolan W., Menezes A. and Pinkham J.
(2001) Achieving commercial-quality translationwith example-based methods.
In ?Proceedings of theVIIIth MT Summit?, Santiago de Compostela, Spain.293-298.Shaw J. and Hatzivassiloglou V. (1999) Orderingamong premodifiers.
In ?Proceedings of the 37thAnnual Meeting of the ACL,?
pp.
135-143.Vieira R. and Poesio M. (2000) An Empirically BasedSystem for Processing Definite Descriptions.Computational Linguistics 26/4, pp.
539-593.
