Using an Ontology to Determine English CountabilityFrancis Bond?
and Caitlin Vatikiotis-Bateson??
* bond@cslab.kecl.ntt.co.jp ** caitlinvb@yahoo.com2-4 Hikari-dai Seika-cho, Kyoto, Japan 619-0237NTT Communication Science Laboratories,Nippon Telegraph and Telephone CorporationAbstractIn this paper we show to what degree the count-ability of English nouns is predictable from theirsemantics.
We found that at 78% of nouns?countability could be predicted using an ontol-ogy of 2,710 nodes.
We also show how thispredictability can be used to aid non-nativespeakers to determine the countability of En-glish nouns when building a bilingual machinetranslation lexicon.1 IntroductionIn English, nouns heading noun phrases are typ-ically either countable or uncountable (alsocalled count and mass).
Countable nouns canbe modified by denumerators, prototypicallynumbers, and have a morphologically markedplural form: one dog , two dogs.
Uncountablenouns cannot be modified by denumerators, butcan be modified by unspecific quantifiers suchas much, and do not show any number dis-tinction (prototypically being singular): * oneequipment , some equipment , *two equipments.Knowledge of countability is important whentranslating from a source language withoutobligatory number and countability distinctionsto a target language that does make num-ber distinctions.
Some examples are Japanese-to-English (Ehara and Tanaka, 1993; Bond,2001), Japanese-to-German (Siegel, 1996), andChinese-to-English.For a system generating English, it is impor-tant to know the countability of the head noun,as this determines whether it can become plural,and the range of possible determiners.
Knowl-edge of countability is particularly important inmachine translation, because the closest trans-?
?This research was done while the second author wasvisiting the NTT Communication Science Laboratorieslation equivalent may have different countabil-ity from the source noun.
Many languages, suchas Chinese and Japanese, do not mark count-ability, which means that the choice of count-ability will be largely the responsibility of thegeneration component.In this paper, we measure how well seman-tic classes predict countability.
Obviously, theanswer depends both on how many countabilitydistinctions are made, and how many semanticclasses are used.
If every sense of every wordbelongs to its own semantic class, then seman-tic classes will uniquely, although not usefully,predict countability.
This is effectively the po-sition taken by Wierzbicka (1988), where thesemantics of a noun, given in the Natural Se-mantic Metalanguage, always provides enoughinformation to predict the countability.
On theother hand, if there are only a handful of se-mantic classes, then they will have little pre-dictive power.
We first define countability, anddiscuss its semantic motivation (?
2).
Then wepresent the lexical resources used in our exper-iment (?
3), including the ontology of 2,710 se-mantic classes.
Next, we describe the experi-ment, which uses the semantic classes of wordsin a Japanese-to-English transfer dictionary topredict their countability (?
4).
Finally, wepresent the results and discuss the theoreticaland practical implications in (?
5).2 Linguistic BackgroundGrammatical countability is motivated bythe semantic distinction between objectand substance reference (also known asbounded/non-bounded or individuated/non-individuated).
Imai and Gentner (1997)show that the presence of countability in En-glish and its absence in Japanese influences hownative speakers conceptualize unknown nounsas objects or substances.
There is definitelysome link between countability and conceptual-ization, but it is a subject of contention amonglinguists as to how far grammatical countabilityis motivated and how much it is arbitrary.
Jack-endoff (1991) assumes countability and numberto be fully motivated, and shows various rulesfor conversion between countable and uncount-able meanings, but does not discuss any of theproblematic exceptions.The prevailing position in the natural lan-guage processing community is to effectivelytreat countability as though it were arbitraryand encode it as a lexical property of nouns.Copestake (1992) has gone some way towardrepresenting countability at the semantic levelusing a type form with subtypes countableand uncountable with further subtypes belowthese.
Words that undergo conversion betweendifferent values of form can be linked with lexi-cal rules, such as the grinding rule that links acountable animal with its uncountable inter-pretation as meat.
These are not, however di-rectly linked to a full ontology.
Therefore thereis no direct connection between being an animaland being countable.Bond et al (1994) suggested a division ofcountability into five major types, based onAllan (1980)?s noun countability preferences(NCPs).
Nouns which rarely undergo conver-sion are marked as either fully countable,uncountable or plural only.
Nouns that arenon-specified are marked as either stronglycountable (for count nouns that can be con-verted to mass, such as cake) or weaklycountable (for mass nouns that are readily con-vertible to count, such as beer).
Conversion istriggered by surrounding context.
Noun phrasesheaded by uncountable nouns can be convertedto countable noun phrases by generating clas-sifiers: one piece of equipment , as described inBond and Ikehara (1996).Full knowledge of the referent of a nounphrase is not enough to predict countability.There is also language-specific knowledge re-quired.
There are at least three sources of ev-idence for this: the first is that different lan-guages encode the countability of the same ref-erent in different ways.
To use Allan (1980)?sexample, there is nothing about the concept de-noted by lightning that rules out *a lightningbeing interpreted as a flash of lightning .
Inboth German and French (which distinguish be-tween countable and uncountable uses of words)the translation equivalents of lightning are fullycountable (ein Blitz and un e?clair respectively).Even within the same language, the same ref-erent can be encoded countably or uncount-ably: clothes/clothing , things/stuff , jobs/work .The second evidence comes from the psycho-linguistic studies of Imai and Gentner (1997)who show that speakers of Japanese and En-glish characterize the same referent in differentways depending on whether they consider it tobe countable (more common for English speak-ers) or uncountable (more common for Japanesespeakers).
Further evidence comes from the En-glish of non-native speakers, particularly thosewhose native grammar does not mark countabil-ity.
Presumably, their knowledge of the worldis just as complete as English native speakers,but they tend to have difficulty with the Englishspecific conceptual encoding of countability.In the next section (?
3) we describe the re-sources we use to measure the predictability ofcountability by meaning, and then describe ourexperiment (?
4).3 ResourcesWe use the five noun countability classes ofBond et al (1994), and the 2,710 seman-tic classes used in the Japanese-to-English ma-chine translation system ALT-J/E (Ikehara etal., 1991).
These are combined in the machinetranslation lexicons, allowing us to quantify howwell semantic classes predict countability.3.1 Semantic Transfer DictionaryWe use the common noun part of ALT-J/E?sJapanese-to-English semantic transfer dictio-nary.
It contains 71,833 linked Japanese-English pairs.
A simplified example of the entryfor usagi ?rabbit?
is given in Figure 1.
Eachrecord of the dictionary has a Japanese indexform, a sense number, an English index form,English syntactic information, English seman-tic information, domain information and so on.English syntactic information includes the partof speech, noun countability preference, defaultnumber, default article and whether the nounis inherently possessed.
The semantic informa-tion includes common and proper noun seman-tic classes.
In this example, there are two se-mantic classes: animal subsumed by livingthing, and meat subsumed by foodstuff .Because the dictionary was developed fora Japanese-to-English machine translation sys-tem, many of the English translations are longerthan the Japanese source terms: many conceptsencoded in a single lexical item in Japanese mayneed multiple words in English.
Of the 71,833entries, 41,285 are multi-word expressions inEnglish (57.4%).3.2 Semantic OntologyALT-J/E?s ontology classifies concepts to usein expressing relationships between words.
Themeanings of common nouns are given in terms ofa semantic hierarchy of 2,710 nodes.
Each nodein the hierarchy represents a semantic class.Edges in the hierarchy represent is-a or has-a relationships, so that the child of a semanticclass related by an is-a relation is subsumedby it.
For example, organ is-a body-part.The semantic hierarchy and the Japanese dic-tionary marked with it have been published asGoi-Taikei: A Japanese Lexicon (Ikehara et al,1997).The semantic classes are primarily used todistinguish between word-senses using the se-lectional restrictions which predicates place ontheir arguments.
Countability has not beenused as a criterion in deciding which wordshould go into which class.
In fact, becausethe dictionary has been built mainly by nativeJapanese speakers, who do not have reliable in-tuitions on countability, it was not possible touse countability to help decide into which classto put a given word.Although the dictionary has been extensivelyused in a machine translation system, errors stillexist.
A detailed examination of user dictionar-ies with the same information content, made bythe same lexicographers who built the lexicon,found errors in 11?21% of the entries (Ikeharaet al, 1995).
A particularly common source oferrors was words being placed one level too highor low in the hierarchy.
The same study foundthat 90% of words entered into a user dictio-nary could be automatically assigned to lexicalclasses with 13?25% errors, although words wereassigned to too many semantic classes 32?56%of the time (the range in errors is due to differ-ent results from different domains: newspapersand software manuals).3.3 Noun Countability PreferencesNouns in the dictionary are marked with oneof five major countability preference classes:fully countable, strongly countable,weakly countable, uncountable and pluralonly, described at length in Bond (2001).In addition to countability, default valuesfor number and classifier (cl) are also partof the lexicon.
The classes and additionalfeatures are summarized in Table 1, along withtheir distribution in ALT-J/E?s common noundictionary.1 The most common NCP is fullycountable, followed by uncountable.The two most basic types are fullycountable and uncountable.
Fully countablenouns such as knife have both singular and plu-ral forms, and cannot be used with determinerssuch as much, little, a little, less and overmuch.Uncountable nouns, such as furniture, have noplural form, and can be used with much.Between these two extremes there are a vastnumber of nouns, such as cake, that can beused in both countable and uncountable nounphrases.
They have both singular and plu-ral forms, and can also be used with much.Whether such nouns will be used countably oruncountably depends on whether their refer-ent is being thought of as made up of discreteunits or not.
As it is not always possible todetermine this explicitly when translating fromJapanese to English, we divide these nouns intotwo groups: strongly countable, those thatrefer to discrete entities by default, such as cake,and weakly countable, those that refer to non-bounded referents by default, such as beer .
Atpresent, these distinctions were made by thelexicographers?
intuition, as there are no largesense-tagged corpora to train from.In fact, almost all English nouns can be usedin uncountable environments, for example, ifthey are given the ground interpretation.
Theonly exception is classifiers such as piece or bit ,which refer to quanta, and thus have no un-countable interpretation.Language users are sensitive to relative fre-quencies of variant forms and senses of lexi-cal items (Briscoe and Copestake, 1999, p511).The division into fully, strongly, weakly1We ignore the two subclasses in this paper:collective nouns are treated as fully countable andsemi-countable as uncountable.???????????
?Index usagisense 1????????
?English Translation rabbitPart of Speech nounNoun Countability Pref.
strongly countableDefault Number singularSemantic Classes[common noun animal, meat]????????????????????
?Figure 1: Japanese-English Noun Lexical Entry (usagi ?
rabbit)Table 1: Noun Countability PreferencesNoun Countability Code Example Default Default # %Preference Number Classifierfully countable CO knife sg ?
47,255 65.8strongly countable BC cake sg ?
3,110 4.3weakly countable BU beer sg ?
3,377 4.7uncountable UC furniture sg piece 15,435 21.5plural only PT scissors pl pair 2,107 2.9and uncountable is, in effect, as a coarse wayof reflecting this variation for noun countability.The last major type of countability prefer-ence is plural only: nouns that only have aplural form, such as scissors.
They can neitherbe denumerated nor modified by much.
pluralonly are further divided depending on whatclassifier they take.
For example, pair pluralonly nouns use pair as a classifier when theyare denumerated: a pair of scissors.
This ismotivated by the shape of the referent: pairplural only nouns are things that have a bi-partite structure.
Such words only use a sin-gular form when used as modifiers (a scissormovement).
Other plural only such as clothesuse the plural form even as modifiers (a clotheshorse).
In this case, the base (uninflected) formis clothes, and the plural form is zero-derivedfrom it.
The word clothes cannot be denumer-ated at all.
If clothes must be counted, thena countable word of similar meaning is substi-tuted, or clothing is used with a classifier: agarment, a suit, a piece of clothing .Information this detailed about noun count-ability preferences is not found in standarddictionaries.
To enter this information intothe transfer lexicon, a single (Australian) En-glish native speaker with some knowledge ofJapanese examined all of the entries in Goi-Taikei?s common-noun dictionary and deter-mined appropriate values for their countabilitypreferences.4 Experiment and ResultsTo test how well the semantic classes predict thecountability preferences, we carried out a seriesof experiments.We ran the experiments under several condi-tions, to test the effect of combinations of se-mantic classes and single-word or multi-wordentries.
In all cases the baseline was togive the most frequently occurring noun count-ability preference (which was always fullycountable).In the experiments, we use five NCPs (fully,strongly, weakly countable, uncountableand plural only), we do not consider defaultnumber in any of the experiments.For each combination of semantic classesin the lexicon, we calculated the most com-mon NCP.
Ties are resolved as follows: fullycountable beats strongly countable beatsweakly countable beats uncountable beatsplural only.
For example, consider the se-mantic class 910:tableware with four mem-bers: shokki ?
tableware (UC), youshokki ?dinner set (CO), youshokki ?
Western-styletableware (UC) and toukirui ?
crockery (UC).Conditions Entries % Range BaselineTraining=Test all 77.9 76.8?78.6 65.8Tenfold Cross Validation all 71.2 69.8?72.1 65.8Tenfold Cross Validation single-word 66.6 65.6?67.7 58.6Tenfold Cross Validation multi-word 74.8 73.9?75.8 71.1Table 2: ResultsThe most common NCP is UC, so the NCP as-sociated with this class is uncountable.In our first experiment, we calculated the per-centage of entries whose NCP was the sameas the most common one.
For example,the NCP associated with the semantic class910:tableware is uncountable.
This is correctfor three out of the four words in this semanticclass.
This is equivalent to testing on the train-ing data, and gives a measure of how well se-mantic classes actually predict noun countabil-ity in ALT-J/E?s lexicon: 77.9% of the time.This is better than the base-line of all fullycountable which would give 65.8%.
All the re-sults are presented in Table 2.In order to test how useful countability wouldbe in predicting the countability of unknownwords, we tested the system using stratifiedten-fold cross validation.
That is, we dividedthe common noun dictionary into ten sets, thentested on each set in turn, with the other nine-tenths of the data used as the training set.
Inorder to ensure an even distribution, the datawas stratified by sorting according to semanticclass with every 10th item included in the sameset.
If the combination of semantic classes wasnot found in the test set, we took the count-ability to be the overall most common NCP:fully countable.
This occurred 11.6% of thetime.
Using only nine tenths of the data,the accuracy went down to 71.2%, 5.4% abovethe baseline.
In this case the training set for910:tableware will still always contain a ma-jority of uncountable nouns, so it will be asso-ciated with UC.
This will be correct for all thewords in the class except youshokki ?
dinnerset (CO).Finally, we divided the dictionary into singleand multiple word entries (looked at from theEnglish side) and re-tested.
It was much harderto predict countability for single words (66.6%)than it was for multi-word expressions (74.8%).We will discuss the reason for this in the nextsection.5 DiscussionThe upper bound of 78% was lower than weexpected.
There were some problems withthe granularity of the hierarchy.
In English,the class names of heterogeneous collectionsof objects tend to be uncountable, while thenames of the actual objects are countable.For example, the following terms are all hy-ponyms of tableware in Wordnet (Fellbaum,1998): cutlery, chopsticks, crockery, dishware,dinnerware, glassware, glasswork, gold plate,service, tea set, .
.
.
.
Most of the entriesare either uncountable, or multi-word expres-sions headed by group classifiers, such as ser-vice and set .
The words below these classesare almost all countable, with a sprinkling ofplural only (like tongs).
Thus in the threelevels of the hierarchy, two are mainly un-countable, and below that mainly countable.However, ALT-J/E?s ontology only has twolevels here: 910:tableware has four daugh-ters, all leaf nodes in the semantic hierarchy:911:crockery, 912:cookware, 913:cutleryand 914:tableware (other).
The majorityNCPs for all four of these classes are fullycountable.
The question arises as to whetherwords such as cutlery should be in the upper orlower level.
Using countability as an additionalcriterion for deciding which class to add a wordto makes the task more constrained, and there-fore more consistent.
In this case, we would addcutlery to the parent node 910:tableware, onthe basis of its countability (or add a new layerto the ontology).Adding countability as a criterion would alsohelp to solve the problem of words being enteredin a class one level too high or too low, as notedin Section 3.2.We were resigned to getting almost all of thepair plural only wrong, and we did, but theyamount to less than 3% of the total.
Althoughthere are some functional similarities, such asa large percentage of 820:clothes for thelower body, it was more common to get one ortwo in an otherwise large group, such as tongs inthe 913:cutlery class, which is overwhelminglyfully countable.
Because the major differen-tiator is physical shape, which is not included inour semantic hierarchy, these words cannot belearned by our method.
This is another argu-ment for the importance of representing phys-ical shape so that it is accessible for linguisticprocessing.We had expected single word entries to beeasier to predict than multiple word entries, be-cause of the lack of influence of modifiers.
How-ever, the experiment showed the opposite.
In-vestigating the reason found that single wordentries tended to have more semantic classes perword (1.38 vs 1.34) and more varied combina-tions of semantic classes.
This meant that therewere 5.1 entries per combination to train on forthe multi-word entries, but only 3.7 for the sin-gle word entries.
Therefore, it was harder totrain for the single word entries.As can be seen in the case of tableware givenabove, there were classes where the single-wordand multi-word expressions in the same seman-tic class had different countabilities.
Therefore,even though there were fewer training exam-ples, learning the NCPs differently for singleand multi-word expressions and then combingthe results gave an improved score: 72.0%.Finally, there were also substantial numbersof genuine errors, such as  sofutokara?
which has two translations soft colour andsoft collar .
Their semantic classes should havebeen hue and clothing respectively, but thesemantic labels were reversed.
In this case thecountability preferences were correct, but thesemantic classes incorrect.An initial analysis of the erroneous predic-tions suggested that the upper bound with allgenuine errors in the lexicon removed would becloser to 85% than 78%.
We speculate thatthis would be true for languages other than En-glish because is not specifically tuned to En-glish, it was developed for Japanese analysis.Unfortunately we do not have a large lexicon ofFrench, German or some other countable lan-guage marked with the same ontology to teston.5.1 Further WorkFirst, we would like to look more at multi-word expressions.
There is a general trendfor the head of a multiword expression to de-termine the overall countability, which we didnot exploit.
Modifiers can also be informative,particularly for quantified expressions such aszasshoku ?
various colors whose English partmust be countable as it is explicitly denumer-ated.Second, we would like to investigate furtherthe relation between under-specified semanticsand countability.
Words such as usagi ?
rab-bit are marked with the semantic classes foranimal and meat, and the single NCP stronglycountable.
It may be better to explicitly iden-tify countability with the animal sense, and un-countability with the meat sense.
In this way,we could learn NCPs for each semantic classindividually (ignoring plural only) and lookat ways of combining them, or of dynamicallyassigning countability during sense disambigua-tion.
Learning NCPs for each class individuallycould also help to predict NCPs for entries withidiosyncratic combinations, for which trainingdata may not be found.Finally, from a psycho-linguistic point ofview, it would be interesting to test whether un-predictable countabilities (that is those wordswhose countability is not motivated by their se-mantic class) are in fact harder for non-nativespeakers to use, and more likely to be translatedincorrectly by humans.5.2 ApplicationsIn general, many errors in countability that hadbeen overlooked by the lexicographers in theoriginal compilation of the lexicon and its subse-quent revisions became obvious when looking atthe words grouped by semantic class and nouncountability preference.
Most entries were madeby Japanese native speakers, who do not makecountability distinctions.
They were checkedby a native speaker of English, who in turndid not always understand the Japanese sourceword, and thus was unable to identify the cor-rect sense.Adding a checker to the dictionary tools,which warns if the semantic class does not pre-dict the assigned countability, would help toavoid such errors.
Such a tool could also beused for fine tuning the position of words in thehierarchy, and spotting flat-out errors.Another application of these results is in au-tomatically predicting the countability of un-known words.
It is possible to automaticallypredict semantic classes up to 80% of the time(Ikehara et al, 1995).
These semantic classescould then be used to predict the countabilityat a level substantially above the baseline.6 ConclusionsEven with a limited ontology and noisy lexicon,semantics does predict countability around 78%of the time.
Therefore countability is shown tocorrelate with semantics.
This semantic motiva-tion can be used to build tools to (a) automat-ically predict countability for unknown words,and (b) serve as a check on consistency whenbuilding a dictionary.AcknowledgmentsThe authors would like to thank the other mem-bers of the NTT Machine Translation ResearchGroup, as well as the NTT Linguistic MediaGroup, Timothy Baldwin and Ann Copestake.This research was supported by the researchcollaboration between the NTT Communica-tion Science Laboratories, Nippon Telegraphand Telephone Corporation and CSLI, StanfordUniversity.ReferencesKeith Allan.
1980.
Nouns and countability.
Lan-guage, 56(3):541?67.Francis Bond and Satoru Ikehara.
1996.
When andhow to disambiguate?
?
countability in machinetranslation ?.
In International Seminar on Mul-timodal Interactive Disambiguation: MIDDIM-96, pages 29?40, Grenoble.
(Reprint of MIDDIM-1996).Francis Bond and Kentaro Ogura.
1998.
Referencein Japanese-to-English machine translation.
Ma-chine Translation, 13(2?3):107?134.Francis Bond and Kyonghee Paik.
1997.
Classifyingcorrespondence in Japanese and Korean.
In 3rdPacific Association for Computational LinguisticsConference: PACLING-97, pages 58?67.
MeiseiUniversity, Tokyo, Japan.Francis Bond, Kentaro Ogura, and Satoru Ikehara.1994.
Countability and number in Japanese-to-English machine translation.
In 15th Interna-tional Conference on Computational Linguistics:COLING-94, pages 32?38, Kyoto.
(http://xxx.lanl.gov/abs/cmp-lg/9511001).Francis Bond.
2001.
Determiners and Number inEnglish contrasted with Japanese ?
as exemplifiedin Machine Translation.
Ph.D. thesis, Universityof Queensland, Brisbane, Australia.Ted Briscoe and Ann Copestake.
1999.
Lexicalrules in constraint-based grammars.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 25(4):487?526.Ann Copestake.
1992.
The Representation of Lexi-cal Semantic Information.
Ph.D. thesis, Univer-sity of Sussex, Brighton.Terumasa Ehara and Hozumi Tanaka.
1993.Kikaihonyaku-ni-okeru shizengengo shori (natu-ral language processing in machine translation).Journal of Information Processing Society ofJapan, 34(10):1266?1273.
(in Japanese).Christine Fellbaum, editor.
1998.
WordNet: AnElectronic Lexical Database.
MIT Press.Satoru Ikehara, Satoshi Shirai, Akio Yokoo, and Hi-romi Nakaiwa.
1991.
Toward an MT system with-out pre-editing ?
effects of new methods in ALT-J/E?.
In Third Machine Translation Summit:MT Summit III, pages 101?106, Washington DC.
(http://xxx.lanl.gov/abs/cmp-lg/9510008).Satoru Ikehara, Satoshi Shirai, Akio Yokoo, Fran-cis Bond, and Yoshie Omi.
1995.
Automatic de-termination of semantic attributes for user de-fined words in Japanese-to-English machine trans-lation.
Journal of Natural Language Processing,2(1):3?17.
(in Japanese).Satoru Ikehara, Masahiro Miyazaki, Satoshi Shirai,Akio Yokoo, Hiromi Nakaiwa, Kentaro Ogura,Yoshifumi Ooyama, and Yoshihiko Hayashi.
1997.Goi-Taikei ?
A Japanese Lexicon.
IwanamiShoten, Tokyo.
5 volumes/CDROM.Mutsumi Imai and Dedre Gentner.
1997.
A crosslin-guistic study of early word meaning: Univer-sal ontology and linguistic influence.
Cognition,62:169?200.Ray Jackendoff.
1991.
Parts and boundaries.
InBeth Levin and Steven Pinker, editors, Lexicaland Conceptual Semantics, pages 1?45.
BlackwellPublishers, Cambridge, MA & Oxford, UK.Kazumi Kawamura, Yasuhiro Katagiri, andMasahiro Miyazaki.
1995.
Multi-dimensionalthesaurus wth various facets,.
In IEICE TechnicalReport NLC94-48, pages 33?40.
(in Japanese).Melanie Siegel.
1996.
Definiteness and numberin Japanese to German machine translation.
InD.
Gibbon, editor, Natural Language Processingand Speech Technology, pages 137?142.
Moutonde Gruyter, Berlin.Anna Wierzbicka.
1988.
The Semantics of Gram-mar.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam.
