Linking syntactic and semantic arguments in a dependency-based formalismChristian Korthals and Ralph DebusmannComputational LinguisticsUniversita?t des Saarlandes, Geb.
17Postfach 15 11 5066041 Saarbu?cken, Germany(cnkortha|rade)@coli.uni-sb.deAbstractWe propose a formal characterization of variationin the syntactic realization of semantic arguments,using hierarchies of syntactic relations and thematicroles, and a mechanism of lexical inheritance to ob-tain valency frames from individual linking types.We embed the formalization in the new lexicalized,dependency-based grammar formalism of Topologi-cal Dependency Grammar (TDG) (Duchier and De-busmann, 2001).
We account for arguments that canbe alternatively realized as a NP or a PP, and modelthematic role alternations.
We also treat auxiliaryconstructions, where the correspondance betweensyntactic and semantic argumenthood is indirect.11 IntroductionThis paper deals with the mapping (or linking) of se-mantic predicate-argument structure to surface syn-tactic realizations.
We present a formal architecturein the framework of a multi-dimensional, heavilylexicalized, efficiently parsable dependency formal-ism (Duchier and Debusmann, 2001), which useslexical inheritance as a means to explicitly modelsyntactic variation.
We concentrate on variation be-tween prepositional phrases and nominal phraseswhich realize verbal arguments, and remedy prob-lems that occur with this kind of variation in recentapproaches like the HPSG linking architecture pro-posed by (Davis, 1998).Section 2 presents and analyses some of the prob-lematic data we can model, English dative shift, op-tional complements and thematic role alternations.Section 3 compares the HPSG account with less for-mal valency or dependency based approaches andcomments on the shortcomings, focusing on thetreatment of PP complements.
We then present anew account in the formal framework of Topologi-1The authors wish to thank Denys Duchier and Geert-JanKruijff for lots of helpful comments on this paper.cal Dependency Grammar (TDG) by adding a newrepresentational level (thematic structure addition-ally to ID structure) to the framework in Section4.1 and introducing the concept of a valency framein the TDG inheritance lexicon (Sections 4.2 and4.3).
We then show how we use syntactic role hi-erarchies to account for the data in a linguisticallyconcise way and define admissibility conditions fora TDG derivation.
Section 5 contrasts our analysisof the dative shift construction with the analysis ofthematic role alternations.2 Linguistic DataInsights from corpus studies (e.g.
the NEGRAtreebank for German (Skut et al, 1998), or thematerial annotated in the Framenet (Baker et al,1998) project on the basis of The Bank of English(Cobuild, 2001) show that the syntactic patternsspecific verbs occur with vary stongly.
Not only dowe observe different patterns for different verbs, butalso alternative patterns with the same verbs.
(1)to (6) illustrate the well-known dative shift (Levin,1993):45 phenomenon, which occurs with a re-stricted class of verbs only.
While the distinctionbetween (2) and (4) can be explained in terms oflexical semantics, even semantically closely relatedverbs as English give and deliver can differ in theirsyntactic behaviour, as the contrast between (1) and(5) shows.
(1) [The postman] gave [him] [a package].
(2) [The postman] gave [a package] [to him].
(3) [The postman] charged [him] [5 Euros].
(4) *[The postman] charged [5 Euros] [to him].
(5) *[The postman] delivered [him] [a package].
(6) [The postman] delivered [a package] [to him].In contrast to (Davis, 1998):3:562 for instance,we do not assume a difference in meaning between(1) and (2).3 Therefore, in order to compute a se-mantics from this data without spurious ambigu-ity, we must be able to express the semantic gen-eralisation that to him and him realize the samesemantic argument.
It is useful to employ the-matic roles in the lexicon and in grammatical de-scriptions for this purpose.4 See e.g.
(Tarvainen,1987), (Helbig, 1989), (Sgall et al, 1986) or theFramenet project (Baker et al, 1998) for differ-ent application-oriented sets of thematic roles (or?frame elements?).
For discussion see e.g.
(Helbig,1995) or (Kruijff, 2001), for criticism see (Dowty,1991).
We can also use thematic roles to structureverbs into an ontology, as e.g.
attempted by (Helbig,1995), (Davis, 1998) or (Baker et al, 1998) in orderto make semantic predictions for syntactic valencypatterns.
For instance, it is a regularity in Englishthat verbs of charging do not show the dative shift(Levin, 1993), while verbs of change of possessionsometimes do.Now consider the set of German examples in (7)to (11), which all roughly express the propositionPeter robs her of her money.
All of the patterns areattested in the NEGRA corpus (Skut et al, 1998),but (10) cannot be found.
(7) [Peter]Peterberaubtrobs[sie]her+ACC[ihresher+GENBargelds].cash+GEN?Peter robs her of her cash.?
(8) [Peter]Peterberaubtrobs[sie]her+ACC[umofihrherBargeld].cash?Peter robs her of her cash.?
(9) [Peter] beraubt [sie].
(10) *[Peter] beraubt.
(11) [Peter]Peterraubt.robs?Peter steals.
?The data illustrates that it can be a lexical prop-erty of verbs to allow or prohibit omission of their2We cite the chapter and the page num-ber of the online postscript version athttp://www-csli.stanford.edu/?tdavis/3We expect English give to have at least two separate mean-ings (a) cause someone to physically have something and (b) tocause someone trouble, pain, etc.
with different lexical entries,following established lexicographic practice.
While the lexicalentry for meaning (b) will exhibit the syntactic pattern illus-trated by (1) only (*To give headache to someone), the entryfor meaning (a) exhibits both the patterns in (1) and (2).4Note that we do not commit ourselves to a specific set ofthematic roles in this paper.complements (Levin, 1993):33, (Helbig, 1995):99.Therefore, we will analyse syntactic arguments interms of optionality and obligatoriness.
Note thatthis distinction is not predictable from the thematicroles realized by the syntactic elements (e.g.
bydistinguishing inner and outer roles in (Sgall etal., 1986) and (Tarvainen, 1987)) nor by the syn-tactic form or even function of the syntactic ele-ments.
Neither is the distinction between obliga-tory and optional elements the same as the comple-ment/adjunct distinction.We analyse (1) to (6) as alternative realizationsof a thematic role, because one semantic argument(the PATIENT) can either be realized as indirect ob-ject or PP, while the THEME is always realized as adirect object NP.
Compare this data to alternationsas in (12) and (13).
Here, additionally, one syntac-tic function (direct object) is open for either of twothematic roles (Levin, 1993).
(12) [He] cleared [the dirt] [from the table].
(13) [He] cleared [the table] [of the dirt].We will show in Section 4 how we can accountfor the data illustrated in this section in a lexical-ized dependency grammar formalism and show thatthe linguistic view taken above helps to reduce re-dundancy in the lexicon.3 Alternative approachesThe approach taken in this paper formalizes notionsthat have only been informally employed in depen-dency grammar.
(Helbig, 1995):167 defines valencyframes on a formal syntactic and functional syntac-tic level, a thematic role level and a logical level inhis 6-level-model, but only informally and for thepurpose of learners?
dictionaries.
There is a longtradition in German lexicography which has pro-duced a number of valency dictionaries (e.g.
(Hel-big and Schenkel, 1975), (Fischer, 1997), (Engeland Schumacher, 1976)).
The syntactic analyses inthese dictionaries are compatible with our model,but they do not provide a thematic role level.
(Melcuk, 1988) characterizes valency frames ina similar fashion (94), but uses informal additionsin natural language to constrain the possible pat-terns.
Also (Melcuk, 1988) assumes different levelsof representation.
A shortcoming of the syntacticlevel in (Melcuk, 1988) is, though, that his syntacticclasses are dependent on the specific lexical item,and therefore problematic to define.
The approachwe will take resembles LFG (Kaplan and Bresnan,1982) (Bresnan, 2001) in that it assumes syntacticrelations.
(Davis, 1998) has recently proposed a linking the-ory in the formal framework of HPSG.
He sepa-rates syntax and semantics by postulating thematicroles under the CONTENT feature of his HPSG ar-chitecture (Pollard and Sag, 1994), and syntac-tic characterizations of the arguments under CAT-EGORY|ARG-ST and CATEGORY|SUBCAT.
He hasseparate hierarchies of syntactic patterns (intrans,trans, ditrans, 5:32) and semantic classes (subtypesof RELATION, 5:72).
These hierarchies interact bya set of linking constraints and yield a hierarchyof predicators (5:41), which specifies possible link-ings of thematic roles to syntactic arguments.
While(Helbig, 1995) obviously employs a large role set,(Davis, 1998) has only 6 roles, and moves thematicroles further down into semantics than we assumeby postulating them on an event level, which ?ef-fectively amounts to a limited amount of seman-tic decomposition?
(5:39).
The shortcoming of themodel is that the syntactic patterns assumed are verysparse indeed with only three transitivity classes.Due to this, semantic predictions can be made onlyfor NP-complements, while PPs must be treated bya separate mechanism (?content sharing account?
).Thus, there is no specific prediction for the preposi-tional complement in English dative shift construc-tions.
The advantage of Davis?s model, in contrast,is the lexical inheritance architecture which is a for-mal means to capture generalizations.4 FormalizationWe formalize our idea of linking and valency framesas an extension of the new lexicalized, dependency-based grammar formalism of Topological Depen-dency Grammar (TDG) (Duchier and Debusmann,2001), (Debusmann, 2001).
So far, TDG is onlyconcerned with syntax: every TDG analysis con-sists of an unordered dependency tree (ID tree) andan ordered and projective topology tree (LP tree).We only describe a subset of the full TDG grammarformalism (e.g.
completely ignoring any issues con-cerning word order) and extend it with the notion ofa thematic graph (TH graph).
We call the version ofTDG described in this paper TDGTH.4.1 Thematic graphsPeter will live in Taipeisubj vbseppinpcomp(14)What is a ?thematic graph??
We illustrate thisnotion by an example.
(14) is an ID tree analysis forthe sentence Peter will live in Taipei: We show thecorresponding TH graph in (15).
Here, Peter is thepatient of will live and in Taipei the locative.
Notethat we collapsed the auxiliary will and its verbalcomplement live into a single node, and also the PPin Taipei:Peter will live in Taipeith loc (15)4.2 The lexiconThis section deals with the TDGTH-lexicon.
We as-sume a finite set of syntactic roles R and a finite setof thematic roles T .
We write ?
for a syntactic rolein R and ?
for a thematic role in T .
?
= {!,?}
is theset of optionality flags pi.
A = {valID,valTH, link} isthe set of lexical features ?, and E the set of lexicalentries e, having the following signature:5?
?valID : 2R ?
?valTH : 2T ?
?link : 2T ?R?
?E is a lattice of TDGTH-lexicon entries; lexical en-tries either correspond to words or to lexical typeswhich can be inherited (see below).The value of feature valID is a set of pairs (?,pi)of syntactic roles and an optionality flag modelingthe concept of syntactic valency.
The value of valTHa set of pairs (?,pi) of thematic roles and an option-ality flag (thematic valency).
For convenience, wewrite ?pi for (?,pi), and ?pi for (?,pi).
The value oflink is a set of pairs (?,?)
of thematic and syntacticroles, expressing the mapping between them.
Wecall a pair in this set a linking.5We write ?
(e) to denote the value of feature ?
at lexicalentry e.eat :??
?valID : {subj!,objd?
}valTH : {ag!, th?
}link : {(ag,subj),(th,objd)}???
(16)As an example, (16) is a lexical entry for finiteeat: eat has an obligatory subject (subj) and an op-tional direct object (objd) in its syntactic valency.
Itsthematic valency contains an obligatory AGENT andan optional THEME.
The link-feature defines twolinkings: one links the AGENT to the subject andthe THEME to the direct object.4.3 Lexical inheritanceWe introduce a mechanism of lexical inheritance.We write e = e1 u .
.
.u en for ?lexical entry e in-herits from lexical entries e1, .
.
.
,en?, and define in-heritance as the set union of the individual features?values:e1 u .
.
.u en =?
?valID : valID(e1)?
.
.
.?
valID(en)valTH : valTH(e1)?
.
.
.?
valTH(en)link : link(e1)?
.
.
.?
link(en)?
?We can now use lexical inheritance to model ournotion of valency frames.
We introduce the notionof a linking type as a lexical entry that does not spec-ify any other lexical attributes besides valID, valTHand link.
Such linking types specify a partial va-lency frame from which we can build complete va-lency frames by inheritance.
For instance, considerthe following two linking types:l ag subj :?
?valID : {subj!
}valTH : {ag!
}link : {(ag,subj)}??
(17)l th objd :?
?valID : {objd?
}valTH : {th?
}link : {(th,objd)}??
(18)The linking type l ag subj maps the agent to thesubject, and l th objd the theme to the direct object.Out of the two, we can construct our lexical entryfor eat by lexical inheritance:eat = l ag subj u l th objd (19)which amounts precisely to the lexical entry dis-played in (16) above.
We call the values of the threefeatures valID, valTH and link in a lexical entry ob-tained by inheriting from linking types a valencyframe.4.4 Role hierarchiesWe arrange the set R of syntactic roles in a rolehierarchy modeled as a meet semi-lattice.
Here isan example cut-out of the role hierarchy:dativeshift ppdirectional ppspatialobji ppto ppinto ppin ppunder(20)We write ?
v ??
for ?
is a specialization of ??
(i.e.?
is below ??
in the hierarchy).We employ the role hierarchy to model alterna-tive realizations in the sense of section 2: e.g.
us-ing the hierarchy above, dativeshift can be realizedas either obji or ppto but not by either ppdirectional,ppinto or ppin.
Note that certain roles (ppto, ppinto,etc.)
will be realized by only two lexical entries,viz.
the prepositions to and into respectively, whileother roles like subj, obji or objd can be realized bya large set of lexical entries.In the same fashion, we arrange the set T of the-matic roles in a role hierarchy, but in this article wekeep this hierarchy completely flat.Lexical entry constraint.
To forbid that differentthematic roles are mapped to the same syntactic rolerealization, we add a condition for well-formed lex-ical entries: for every lexical entry e, the value ofits link-feature, link(e) = {(?1,?1), .
.
.
(?n,?n)} mustnot include two syntactic roles ?i, ?
j (1?
i 6= j ?
n)such that ?i v ?
j.4.5 TDGTH analysesWe can now define a TDGTH-analysis as a tuple(V,EID,?,?,ETH).
It consists of the finite set Vof nodes w, the finite set EID of ID edges EID ?V ?V ?R , where R is the set of syntactic roles, andthe lexical assignment function ?
: V ?
E assigninglexical entries to nodes.
We write w1??
?IDw2 foran ID edge from node w1 to node w2 labeled withsyntactic role ?.Collapsing nodes.
As in the example ID tree andTH graph-analyses in (14) and (15) above, wewould like to be able to collapse sets of nodes inthe ID tree into single nodes in the TH graph.
Weintroduce a collapsing principle into the grammarformalism, according to which the node of an auxil-iary verb, a preposition or a determiner will collapsewith its daughter.To capture this idea, we posit an equivalence re-lation ?, and write V/?
for the set of equivalenceclasses over V .
An equivalence class directly cor-responds to a ?collapsed node?
in the TH graph.ETH ?
(V/?)?
(V/?
)?T is the finite set of of THedges, and we write w for the equivalence class con-taining w.
w1??
?THw2 is a TH edge from node w1to node w2 labeled with ?.When we collapse nodes, we also collapse theirlexical entries: the value of the lexical feature ?
ofa collapsed node w1 = {w1, .
.
.
,wn} is the set unionof the values assigned to the individual nodes:?
(w1) = ?(w1)?
.
.
.??
(wn) (21)In the example TH graph in (15) above, the twonodes will and live are collapsed into the equiva-lence class will live.
We assume that will is mappedto the following lexical entry:will :?
?valID : {subj!,vbse!
}valTH : {}link : {}??
(22)Here, we use the independent definition of the valID,valTH and link features in order to express that func-tion words like auxiliaries or prepositions realizesyntactic arguments which are semantically depen-dent on different lexical items.
This also allows foran elegant treatment of semantically void syntacticarguments as fake-reflexives and non-referential it.6Infinitive live has this lexical entry:live :??
?valID : {ppspatial!
}valTH : {ag!, loc!
}link : {(ag,subj)(loc,ppspatial)}???
(23)When the two nodes collapse into one (will live),these are the values of valTH and link:7valTH(will live) = {ag!, loc!
}link(will live) = {(ag,subj),(loc,ppspatial)}Valency constraints.
The well-formedness con-ditions of a TDGTH-analysis are stated in termsof lexicalized constraints of syntactic valency, the-matic valency and linking.
The syntactic valency6Fake-reflexives occur in German and are reflexive pro-nouns that do not have any semantic content, as e.g.
the Ger-man verb sich fu?rchten (be afraid, sich is the reflexive pro-noun).
The linking type for a fake reflexive will only specifyvalID : reflpronoun, but empty valTH and link.7We omit those features that are not relevant to the TH graphaccording to its well-formedness conditions.
In particular, thevalue of the valID feature is not relevant to the TH graph.constraint restricts the number of outgoing edges ofeach node in the ID tree: if (?, !)
?
valID(w), then wmust have precisely one outgoing edge labeled with??
v ?, at most one if (?,?)
?
valID(w), and noneotherwise.
Thus, (?, !)
stands for an obligatory ?-complement of w and (?,?)
for an optional one.
Thethematic valency constraint is defined analogously.Linking constraint.
An edge in the TH graph isonly licensed if it satisfies the lexicalized linkingconstraint.
It states that an edge w1??
?THw2 inthe TH graph is licensed only if there is a linking(??,??)
?
link(w1) and an edge w?1??
?IDw?2 in theID tree such that w1?
= w1, w2?
= w2, ?
v ??
and?
v ?
?.Consider the example ID tree and TH graphanalyses in (14) and (15) above.
The edgewill live?loc?THin Taipei is mandated by the the-matic valency of will live, but it must also be li-censed by the linking principle: indeed there is alinking (loc,ppspatial) in link(will live) and an IDedge live?ppin?IDin such that live = will live andin = in Taipei, and loc v loc and ppin v ppspatial.5 ApplicationThis section describes the linguistic examples fromsection 2 within the framework developed above.We define a linking type for the English dativeshift construction as follows, realizing our notion ofan alternative realization from section 2.l pat dativeshift :?
?valID : {dativeshift!
}valTH : {pat!
}link : {(pat,dativeshift)}??
(24)As can be seen from the role hierarchy in (20),the syntactic role dativeshift can either be realized asobji or ppto.
This linking type will be inherited by allEnglish verbs that exhibit the dative-shift alternativerealization.
For instance, it is inherited by the lexi-cal entry for the English verb give (cf.
examples (1)and (2)).
Additionally, give inherits from the link-ing type l ag subj defined in (17).
l ag subj will beshared among a large set of other verbs which re-alize their agents as subjects, thus reducing redun-dancy in the lexicon.gives = l ag subj ul pat dativeshift ul th objd(25)The lexicon entry for deliver ((5) and (6)) willdiffer from the one for give by inheriting froml pat obji instead of l pat dativeshift and thus notallow for a dative shift.For the German data in examples (7) to (11) wedefine a syntactic role hierarchy in the same fashion,where genitive and ppum are below a role ppumgen.Then, the lexical entry for berauben inherits from alinking type l theme ppumgen.In contrast to alternative realizations, alternationsas in examples (12) and (13) realize two differentthematic roles (pat and th) as the same syntactic role(objd).
By the lexical entry constraint in section 4.4,there cannot be a single lexical entry for both alter-nants of clear.
We therefore model finite forms ofclear by two separate valency frames (we skip thedefinitions of some of the linking types).clears = l ag subj ul pat objd ul th ppof(26)clears = l ag subj ul th objd ul pat ppfrom(27)6 ConclusionWe proposed an architecture that abstractly cap-tures reocurring patterns in the way in which dif-ferent lexical items syntactically realize their se-mantic arguments.
We focused on interchange-ability between prepositional phrases and nominalphrases.
We therefore defined a hierarchy of the-matic roles, and a separate hierarchy of syntacticfunctions, clearly separating between syntax and se-mantics.We enriched the framework of Topological De-pendency Grammar (Duchier and Debusmann,2001) (TDG) with a third level of representation,thematic structure, and defined well formednessconditions on the thematic structure and on the re-lation between thematic structure (TH) and syntac-tic dominance (ID) structure.
This enabled us topresent a formal definition of the concept of multi-level valency frames.
We demonstrated how suchvalency frames can be assembled using the lexicalinheritance model of TDG, in order to reduce lex-ical redundancy.
We also proposed a treatment ofauxiliary constructions using a notion of node col-lapsing.We applied our formalism to English dative shiftconstructions, variation between NP and PP in Ger-man, optional complements, semantically empty el-ements, and thematic role alternations.Our approach makes weaker theoretical predic-tions about ?alternations?
as opposed to ?alternativerealizations?
than the approach in (Davis, 1998), butis more powerful in the treatment of PPs.
This ispartly due to the choice of an underlying depen-dency formalism, because dependency structureslead to concise and semantically flat parse trees.Our approach is data-driven in the sense that a widerrange of syntactic patterns can be mapped to se-mantic arguments.
Thus, it lends itself easy totechniques of automatically acquiring lexica fromsyntactically and semantically annotated corpora,which start developing at present ((Baker et al,1998), (Skut et al, 1998)).It is possible to include a mechanism that makesstronger predictions about alternations of the cleartype, or about passivization.
Another phenomenonwe would like to tackle in this framework are raisingand control constructions.
We think we can use aconcept similar to node collapsing for them.ReferencesCollin F. Baker, Charles J. Fillmore, and John B.Lowe.
1998.
The Berkeley FrameNet project.In Christian Boitet and Pete Whitelock, editors,36th ACL and 17th ICCL Proceedings, pages 86?90, San Francisco, California.
Morgan KaufmannPublishers.Joan Bresnan.
2001.
Lexical Functional Syntax.Blackwell.Cobuild.
2001.
The bank of english.http://titania.cobuild.collins.co.uk/boe info.html.Tony Davis.
1998.
Linking as constraints in the hi-erarchical lexicon.
Chicago UP.Ralph Debusmann.
2001.
A declarative grammarformalism for dependency grammar.
Master?sthesis, University of the Saarland.David Dowty.
1991.
Thematic proto-roles and ar-gument selection.
Language, 67(547?619).Denys Duchier and Ralph Debusmann.
2001.Topological dependency trees: A constraint-based account of linear precedence.
In ACL 2001Proceedings, Toulouse, France.Ulrich Engel and Helmut Schumacher.
1976.Kleines Valenzlexikon deutscher Verben.Forschungsbericht IDS Mannheim.Klaus Fischer.
1997.
German-English Verb Va-lency.
Narr.Gerhard Helbig and Wolfgang Schenkel.
1975.Wo?rterbuch zur Valenz und Distributiondeutscher Verben.
VEB BibliographischesInstitut.Gerhard Helbig.
1989.
Deutsche Grammatik.
VEBEnzyklopa?die.Gerhard Helbig.
1995.
Probleme der Valenz- undKasustheorie.
Narr.Ron Kaplan and Joan Bresnan.
1982.
Lexical func-tional grammar: A formal system for grammati-cal representation.
In The mental representationof grammatical relations.
MIT Press.Geert-Jan Kruijff.
2001.
A categorial-modal log-ical architecture of informativity.
Ph.D. thesis,Charles University, Prague.Beth Levin.
1993.
English verb classes and alter-nations.
Chicago UP.Igor Melcuk.
1988.
Dependency syntax: Theoryand practice.
Albany: State Univ of NY.Carl Pollard and Ivan A.
Sag.
1994.
Head DrivenPhrase Structure Grammar.
Chicago UP.Petr Sgall, Eva Hajicova, and Jarmila Panenova.1986.
The Meaning of the Sentence in its Seman-tic and Pragmatic Aspects.
Reidel.Wojciech Skut, Thorsten Brants, Brigitte Krenn,and Hans Uszkoreit.
1998.
A linguistically in-terpreted corpus of German newspaper text.
InProceedings of the ESSLLI Workshop on RecentAdvances in Corpus Annotation.Kalevi Tarvainen.
1987.
Cases in the framework ofdependency grammar.
In Concepts of Case.
Narr.
