The Chinese Aspect System and its Semantic InterpretationGuowen Yang and  John A. BatemanFB10, Sprach und LiteraturwissenschaftenBremen University, 28334 Germanygwyang@uni-bremen.de  bateman@uni-bremen.deAbstract: Motivated by a systematicrepresentation of the Chinese aspect formsthat explores their intrinsic semantics andtemporal logical relations, we are constructinga Chinese aspect system network based onsystemic functional grammar andimplemented using the multilingual generatorKPML.
In this paper, we introduce the basicsimple primary aspect forms and a set ofsecondary types of the unmarked-durativeaspect in our Chinese aspect system, describethe semantic temporal relations of complexaspect in terms of temporal logic theories, andpropose principled semantic conditions foraspect combination.
Finally, we give a briefexplanation of the system implementation.1.
MotivationChinese aspect is a traditional area of researchthat has always brought up questions andconfusion for both theoretical andcomputational linguists.
Our own practicalmotivation for  exploring  this area addressestwo concerns.
First, most existing researchachievements in Chinese aspect haveinterpreted the semantics of Chinese aspect inintuitive and general terms rather than interms of temporal logic theories1; the latter ishowever crucial for computational imple-mentation.
Second, Chinese linguiststraditionally focus their attention on simpleprimary aspect (simple aspect) forms, butmake no efforts either theoretically orcomputationally to deal with the large varietyof complex aspects.
Although the frequencyof appearance of complex aspects is not ashigh as that of simple primary aspect types,they nevertheless play an important role in theChinese aspect system and cannot be ignored.To meet these problems, we are constructinga  complete  Chinese  aspect  system in which1 Exception to this are Smith (1991) and Dai Y-J(1997) who have investigated Chinese aspect interms of temporal logic theories.
Their studieshave focused particularly on simple aspect formshowever.all aspect expressions, including both simpleprimary aspect forms and complex aspectforms,  are systematically organized.
We areimplementing the system using the KPMLmultilingual generator (Bateman, 1997),interpreting the intrinsic semantics of eachaspect  form   in  terms  of  existing   temporallogic  theories.
In  this  paper  we  focus onthe generation of complex aspect.2.
The overview of Chinesecomplex aspectBoth Chinese and English have complexaspect forms.
Halliday (1976) describes fortyeight possible forms of English tense andelaborates the ways in which the complextense forms are combined.
In Halliday?s tensetheory, the complex tense forms of Englishare recursively built up from primary tense tosecondary tense, to tertiary tense, etc.Compared with English, the Chinese aspectsystem 2  is rather different.
In the Chineseaspect system, the combination of individualaspects is much more semantically restrictedand much less grammatically regular than thatin English.
As a consequence, it gives rise tomore difficulties in both theoreticalexplanation and practical implementation.We look into the details of this below.We propose that the Chinese aspect systemhas basically seventeen simple primary aspectforms3.
They are shown diagrammatically inFigure 1.2  Chinese has no morphological tense markers.Tense in Chinese is realized lexically.3 It is our opinion that the Chinese aspect systemis actually composed of both aspect morphemes(-le, -zhe, -guo4, etc.)
and aspect adverbials (Yang,1999, 2001).name              form               name               formunmarked-perfect ??(yi3jing1)+V+?
(le) unmarked-realized V+?
(le)marked-perfect ??(yi3jing1)+Vunmarked-remote-experiential??(ceng2jing1)+V+?
(guo) unmarked-experientialV+?(guo)marked-remote-experiential??
(ceng2jing1)+Vrecent-past-existing V+ (N) + ??
(lai2zhe)unmarked-durative V+?
(zhe)activity-durative ?
(zai4)+V long-durative ??
(yi1zhi2)+Vactivity-progressive ??
(zheng4zai4)+V unmarked-progressive?
(zheng4)+Vstart-and-continue V+??
(qi3lai2) continue-to-future V+??(xia4qu4)written-imminent-future-existing??/??(jiang1yao4/ji2jiang1)+Vunmarked-future-existing?(jiang1)+Vspoken-imminent-future-existing??/?
(jiu4yao4/kuai4)+VFigure 1.
The simple primary aspect formsname & form                                examplelong-and-unmarked-durative??(yi1zhi2)+V+?(zhe)?????????
?nuo4ke4si1 hao4 yi1zhi2 hang2xing2 zhe(The Knox has been sailing all along.)marked-remote-experiential-unmarked-durative??(ceng2jing1)+V+?(zhe)??????????
?na4 fu2 hua4 ceng2jing1 zai4 zhe4er gua4 zhe(That picture was once hanging here.)recent-past-existing-unmarked-durativeV+?(zhe)+??(lai2zhe)????????????
?na4 fu2 hu4 gang1cai2 zai4 zhe4er gua4 zhe lai2zhe(That picture was hanging here just now.)unmarked-realized-unmarked-durativeV+?(zhe)+?(le)????????????
?ming2tian1 na4 fu2 hua4 jiu4 zai4 zhe4er gua4 zhe le(That picture  will be hanging here from tomorrow.)unmarked-perfect-unmarked-durative??(yi3jing1)+V+?(zhe)+?(le)?????????????
?na4 fu2 hua4 xian4zai4 yi3jing1 zai4 zhe4er gua4 zhe le(That picture is already hanging here now.)unmarked-future-existing-unmarked-durative?(jiang1)+V+?(zhe)???????????
?ming2tian1 na4 fu2 hua4 jiang1 zai4 zhe4er gua4 zhe(That picture will be hanging here tomorrow.)unmarked-progressive-unmarked-durative?(zheng4)+V+?(zhe)???????????
?na4 fu2 hua4 xian4zai4 zheng4 zai4 zhe4er gua4 zhe(That picture is hanging here now.
)Figure 2.
The secondary types of unmarked-durative aspectThe ?V?
in the aspect forms denotes ?verb?
;the ?/?
shows disjunction; the name of eachindividual aspect was  chosen based on itsintuitive semantic function.
The unmarked-perfect aspect ??+V+?
(yi3jing1+V+le) isregarded as a simple aspect because it has thesame function as the marked-perfect aspect?
?
+V (yi3jing1+V).
They differ onlylexically.
The situation is the same for theunmarked-remote-experiential aspect ?
?+V+?
(ceng2jing1+V+guo) and the marked-remote-experiential aspect ??
+V (ceng2jing1+V).
The seventeen simple primaryaspect forms belong to the three subsystemsof perfective, imperfective (Comrie, 1976) orfuture-existing 4  according to the semanticproperties in individual cases.
Some simpleprimary aspect forms can combine to formvarious kinds of complex aspect.
We call acombination involving two types of simpleprimary aspect an aspect of secondary type;the combination with three types of simpleprimary aspect  is an aspect of tertiary type.By analogy, we also have an aspect ofquaternary type; this is the maximumpossibility: no further types are attested (Yang,1999, 2001).
The combination capacities ofdifferent simple primary aspect forms differ.For example, the simple primary aspectunmarked-durative V+ ?
(V+zhe), whichbelongs to the subsystem of  imperfective,combines with several other types of simpleprimary aspect to construct complex  aspectforms as shown in Figure 2.
Some simpleprimary aspect forms, e.g.
the simple primaryaspect unmarked-experiential V+?
(V+guo),have a very restricted capacity to combinewith other simple aspect forms  to buildcomplex aspect forms.3.
The semantic interpretation ofChinese complex aspectWe briefly look into the profile of tense,aspect, and situation type, before examiningclosely the semantic temporal relations ofcomplex aspect forms.
We adopt Comrie?stheoretical framework of tense and aspect.
?As far as tense is concerned, then, thereference point is typically the presentmoment, and tenses locate situations either atthe same time as the present moment, or priorto the present moment, or subsequent to thepresent moment??
(Comrie, 1985, p.14).
?Aspects are different ways of viewing the4 It is controversial whether to include ?futurity?within the aspect category.
We favor Halliday?stense theory (Halliday, 1976).
We also agree withBache?s viewpoint ?it seems to me not onlyconvenient but also legitimate to accept futureTEMPORALITY as a genuine member of themetacategory of tense?
(Bache, 1995, p. 266).Compatible claims are also made by Dahl (Dahl,1985, p.102-112).
Also see Gong Q-Y (1995).internal temporal constituency of a situation?.
(Comrie, 1976, p.3) Aspect is determined bythe type of process 5  (in terms of systemiclinguistics), the type of object, and thespecific allocation of event initial time,speaking time and  reference time.
Theaspectual properties of different kinds ofevent may be generalized in terms ofVendler?s four situation types: states,activities, accomplishments, and achieve-ments (Vendler, 1967).
Situation types havenothing to do with the referential time of theevent and are influenced only by process,object, and the time point or time intervalover which the event holds.We define several predicates to be used toexpress temporal relations based on andslightly altering those of Allen (1984).
Theimportant ones are:PRECEDE(t1, t2) ?
(t1<t2)SAME(t1, t2) ?
(t1=t2)FAR-PRECEDE(t1, t2) ?
(t1?t2)SHORTLY-PRECEDE(t1, t2) ?
(t1^t2)NEARLY-EQUAL(t1, t2) ?
(t1?t2)The predicates PRECEDE(t1, t2) andSAME(t1, t2) correspond to Allen?s predicatesBEFORE(t1, t2) and EQUAL(t1, t2) respec-tively.
The difference between Allen?s predi-cates and ours is that we use time points fordefinitions rather than time intervals.
Thereason for this slight change is that when thesystem is going to generate an aspectexpression, either a simple aspect or acomplex aspect, the breakdown into therelevant time points is often needed.The predicate PRECEDE(t1, t2) indicates thatthe time point t1 precedes the time point t2 onthe time axis.
The predicate SAME(t1, t2)indicates that the time point t1 equals the timepoint t2 on the time axis.
Three additionalpredicates are defined to meet the particularneeds of expressing the temporal relationsentailed by Chinese aspects.
The predicateFAR-PRECEDE(t1, t2) indicates that the timepoint t1 precedes the time point t2 con-siderably on the time axis.
The predicateSHORTLY-PRECEDE(t1, t2) indicates that5  ?A process consists potentially of threecomponents: (i) the process itself; (ii) participantsin the process; (iii) circumstances associated withthe process.?
(Halliday, 1985, p.101)the time point t1 only shortly precedes thetime point t2.
The predicate NEARLY-EQUAL(t1, t2) indicates that the time point t1lies close to the time point t2.
We define ti, tf6,tr, and ts as the event initial time, the eventfinishing time, the reference time, and thespeaking time respectively.From a theoretical point of view, to generatecomplex aspect forms not only must thetemporal relations of individual  aspect formsand the complex aspect forms be correctlyrepresented, but the semantic requirements forthe combination must also be met.
Whatdetermines the combining possibility betweendifferent  aspect forms is their  own intrinsiclogical temporal attributes.
When the intrinsiclogical temporal attributes of each aspect typeare in harmony, the two aspect forms cancombine; otherwise they cannot.
We haveobserved the following principled conditionsfor this.
First, it is feasible to express theprocess in each individual aspect form beforethe combination is made.
Second, eachindividual aspect form has its own semanticfunction which is different from that of others.Third, in a specific situation, when twodifferent aspect forms combine, the referencetime points of each aspect type may moveaccording to the temporal attributes of thecombined aspect?however, no matter howreference time points change, the event initialtime must remain unique, i.e.
there must onlybe a single event initial time to which thecomplex aspect refers.
If there is any conflictover this, the two aspects are incompatiblewith each other  and the combination cannotbe made.
Finally, the combination must be ina proper order.
This means that the selectionof the aspect which is to serve as primaryaspect has important consequences.
We taketwo complex aspect forms as examples toillustrate these points.The first example is the secondary aspectlong-and-unmarked-durative ?
?
+V+ ?(yi1zhi2+V+zhe).
The combination is com-posed of two simple primary aspect forms:the unmarked-durative aspect V+?
(V+zhe)6 The tf here not only refers to the event intrinsicterminating point, which  an event of accomplish-ment situation type usually has, but it also refers tothe time point at which an event of other situationtypes  is terminated by some kind of outside force.
(UDR) and the long-durative aspect ?
?+V(yi1zhi2+V) (LDR).
Examples 1, 2 and 3illustrate the two simple primary aspect formsand the complex aspect respectively.1 ???
?
??
?nuo4ke4si1 hao4 hang2xin2 zhethe Knox number sail UDR(The Knox is sailing.
)The simple primary aspect of unmarked-durative is realized lexically by the marker?
?
(zhe)?.
The unmarked-durative aspectindicates either a dynamic or static durativestate of the situation; it means that thesituation begins before the reference time andis continuing at the reference time point.
Thetemporal relations of the unmarked-durativeaspect V+?
(V+zhe) are: ti<tr and tr<tf.
Wepresume further  here, for present purpose,that tr=ts.
Both ti and tf are unspecific timepoints: ti can be any time point before tr, and tfcan be any time point after tr.
This isrepresented graphically in Figure 3.ti                   tr=ts,             tfFigure 3.
The temporal relations of the unmarked-durative aspect V+?
(V+zhe)2  ???
?
??
?
?nuo4ke4si1 hao4 yi1zhi2 hang2xing2the Knox number LDR sail(The Knox kept sailing until now.
)The simple primary aspect long-durative,which is realized lexically by the marker ???
(yi1zhi2)?, indicates a relatively longdurative state of the situation; it means thatthe process holds over a relatively long timeduration from the event initial time to theevent finishing time and that the eventfinishing time equals the reference time.
Thetemporal relations of the long-durative aspect?
?+V (yi1zhi2+V) are: ti?tf, and tr=tf=ts.This is represented graphically in Figure 4.The dotted line denotes the long duration.ti                                                 tr=ts=tfFigure 4.
The temporal relations of the long-durative aspect ?
?+V (yi1zhi2+V)3  ???
?
?
?nuo4ke4si1 hao4 yi1zhi2the Knox number LDR??
?hang2xing2 zhesail UDR(The Knox has been sailing all along.
)In example 3, because the event initial time tiof the unmarked-durative aspect V+?
(V+zhe) precedes the reference time point and itis an unfixed time point which can at anypoint precede the reference time, it can alsobe identical to the event initial time of thelong-durative aspect ??
+V (yi1zhi2+V).The two individual aspect forms can share aunique event initial time so that a specificframework of temporal relations for thecomplex aspect can be established.
In thiscase, we say that the two individual aspectforms are compatible; the combination can bemade.
The complex aspect indicates a longexisting and continuing state of affairs withrespect to the reference time.
The temporalrelations of the long-and-unmarked-durative??+V+?
(yi1zhi2+V+zhe) are then: ti?tr,tr=ts and tr<tf.
This is represented graphicallyin Figure 5.ti                           tr=ts               tfFigure 5.
The temporal relations of the complexaspect long-and-unmarked-durative ?
?+V+?Comparing Figure 5 with Figure 3 and Figure4, we can see that for the unmarked-durativeaspect V+?
(V+zhe), the event initial timeafter the combination  comes to ?far precede?the reference time.
For the long-durativeaspect ?
?
+V (yi1zhi2+V), the eventfinishing time does not equal the referencetime any more, which means that the situationis continuing.The simple aspect forms differ in terms ofhow restricted they are in their usage withparticular situation types or process types.
Inthe design of the system network, it isnecessary to arrange the logical dependenciessuch that less restricted aspect forms are madedependent on more restricted aspect forms.This avoids potentially incompatible logicalconditions being required.
For example,compared with other simple primary aspectforms, the unmarked-durative aspect V+?
(V+zhe) (Figure 3) has more restrictedrequirements in its usage, therefore, it shouldbe selected first; then it combines with thelong-durative aspect ?
?+V (yi1zhi2+V) toform the complex aspect long-and-unmarked-durative ??+V+?
(yi1zhi2+V+zhe).The secondary aspect long-and-unmarked-durative ??
+V+?
(yi1zhi2+V+zhe) canfurther combine with another primary aspect,e.g.
the unmarked-future-existing aspect(UFT) which is realized lexically by ?
(jiang1), to form a tertiary aspect type: ?+??+V+?
(jiang1+yi1zhi2+V+zhe).
We takethis as another example to illustrate the aspectcombining conditions; see  example 4 below.4.
???
?
?
?
?nuo4ke4si1      hao4      jiang1    yi4zhi2the Knox       number   UFT         LDR??
?hang2xing2           zhesail                  UDR(The Knox will keep sailing all along.
)The unmarked-future-existing aspect ?
+V(jiang1+V) means that the process will holdsometime in the future.
The temporalrelations of the unmarked-future-existingaspect are: tr<ti, (ti<tf or ti?tf).
In example 4,the temporal relation between ti and tf is ti<tfbut not ti?tf which corresponds to anachievement situation.
This is representedgraphically in Figure 6.tr=ts          ti                                tfFigure 6.
The temporal relations of the unmarked-future-existing aspect ?+V (jiang1+V)When any aspect form combines with theunmarked-future-existing aspect, its owninternal temporal relations as a whole will notbe modified.
The only change is that the eventinitial time may move.
So when the long-and-unmarked-durative aspect ??+V+?
(yi1zhi2+V+zhe) combines with the unmarked-future-existing aspect ?+V (jiang1+V), thetemporal relations of the long-and-unmarked-durative aspect ??+V+?
(yi1zhi2+V+zhe)(Figure 5) become:  ts<ti,  ti?tr, and tr<tf.
Thisis represented graphically in Figure 7.ts             ti                     tr                tfFigure 7.
The temporal relations of the long-and-unmarked-durative aspectCompared with Figure 5, we can see that thereference time of the long-durative-unmarked-durative aspect ??
+V+?
(yi1zhi2+V+zhe) has moved, from tr=ts to ts<tr,and the event initial time correspondinglychanges from ti<ts to   ts<ti.Because the event initial time ti, which isinherited from the long-and-unmarked-durative aspect ??+V+?
(yi1zhi2+V+zhe),is unique, and the reference time tr equals thespeaking time ts, the tertiary aspect ?+?
?+V+ ?
(jiang1+yi1zhi2+V+zhe) has thefollowing temporal relations:  ti?tf and tr<tiand tr=ts.
This is represented graphically inFigure 8.tr=ts       ti                                    tfFigure 8.
The temporal relations of the tertiaryaspect unmarked-future-existing-long-durative-unmarked-durative ?+??+V+?
(jiang1+yi1zhi2+V+zhe)We can see from Figure 8 that although theviewpoint of the situation changes after thecombination,  a unique event initial time cannevertheless be established.
The event initialtime of the long-and-unmarked-durativeaspect  ??+V+?
(yi1zhi2+V+zhe) stillfunctions in the complex aspect.Now let us look into one further example tosee the situation when two aspect formscannot combine.
The simple primary aspectlong-durative ?
?+V (yi1zhi2+V) and thesimple primary aspect activity-progressive(APG), which is lexically realized by themarker ??
(zheng4zai4), are not compatible.The two aspect forms cannot combine.Example 5 is unacceptable.5.
* ???
?
?
?nuo4ke4si1       hao4      yi1zhi2the Knox       number    LDR??
?
?zheng4zai4            hang2xing2APG                        sail(* The Knox has been being sailing allalong.
)The activity-progressive aspect ?
?
+V(zheng4zai4+V) indicates a dynamic pro-gressive state of the situation holding since aspecific time point (event initial time ti).
Itstemporal relations are: ti=tr and ti<tf.
This isrepresented graphically in Figure 9.ti=tr=ts                          tfFigure 9.
The temporal relations of  the unmarked-progressive aspect ?
?+V (zheng4zai4+V)Comparing the temporal relations of the long-durative aspect ?
?
+V (yi1zhi2+V) inFigure 4 with the temporal relations ofactivity-progressive aspect ?
?+V (zheng4zai4+V) in Figure 9, we can see that the twoaspect forms have obviously different eventinitial time points.
One has an event initialtime which precedes the reference time;another has an event initial time which equalsthe reference time.
A unique event initial timecannot be found.
Therefore the two types ofaspect  are incompatible and cannot combine.4.
The implementation of the systemTo generate a specific aspect expression,temporal relations as described in the lastsection must be taken.
Semantic inputsrepresenting the temporal relations are a set oftime points ti, tf, tr, and ts.
Each of the timepoints is expressed in a specific concept,which could correspond to a specific timevalue,  showing its relative position on thetime axis; e.g.
at-past, at-present, or at-future.The semantic inputs are represented in theform of a set of examples making up a test-suite.
Using the predicates described insection 3, appropriate temporal relations canbe automatically built by the system.
Then thesystem traverses a grammar network andchooses appropriate grammatical features byuse of relevant inquiries and choosers(Matthiessen & Bateman, 1991, Teich &Henschel, 1991).
The main function ofchoosers is to guide traversal of the grammarand choose grammatical features by askingthe relevant inquiries and testing all therequired conditions  that they give.
An inquirycontains a set of conditions to test whether thegiven inputs meet some set of semanticrequirements.
For example, the inquiry usedto test the unmarked-durative aspect V+?
(V+zhe) contains the following conditions: tiprecedes tr, tr precedes tf, tr same as ts, theprocess is not of intensive-relational type withverbs like ?
(shi4, be) or adjectivesdescribing properties, and not of possessivetype with verb  ?
(you3, have).
Once afeature is chosen, realization rules attached tothe feature place constraints on lexicalselection and syntactic structure.
Followingtraversal of the grammar the combined lexicaland grammatical constraints are resolved inorder to give the final lexicalized grammaticalstructure.5.
ConclusionIn this paper, we have introduced the basicsimple primary aspect forms and a set ofsecondary types of the unmarked-durativeaspect V+?
(V+zhe) in our Chinese aspectsystem, described the semantic temporalrelations of complex aspect forms in terms oftemporal logic theories, and proposedprincipled semantic conditions required foraspect combination.
In respect of aspect,English and Chinese are semantically ratherdifferent.
As future work we are nowinvestigating potential applications of ourdescription in several areas.
In addition to thegeneration of Chinese texts per se, we are alsoconsidering the use of multilingual generationin, for example, contrastive referencegrammars, and language teaching.ReferencesAllen, J.F.
(1984) Towards a General Theory ofAction and Time, Artificial Intelligence, 1984,23, p.123-154Bache, C. (1995) The Study of Aspect, Tense andAction: Towards a Theory of the Semantics ofGrammatical Categories.
Frankfurt/M.
: Lang.Bateman, J.A.
(1997) Enabling technology formultilingual natural language generation: theKPML development environment, NaturalLanguage Engineering, 3(1), p.15-55Comrie, B.
(1976) Aspect, Cambridge, England:Cambridge University Press.Comrie, B.
(1985) Tense, Cambridge, England:Cambridge University Press.Dahl, ?.
(1985) Tense and Aspect Systems, Oxford:Blackwell.Dai, Y-J.
(1997) ????????
(A Study ofChinese Aspect), Zhejiang Education Publisher.Gong, Q-Y.
(1995) ???????????
(Phase, Tense and Aspect in Chinese), Beijing:Commercial Press.Halliday, M.A.K.
(1976) System and Function inLanguage, Oxford University press.Halliday, M.A.K.
(1985, first edition) (1994,second adition) An Introduction to FunctionalGrammar, Edward Arnold, London.Matthiessen, M.I.M.
& Bateman, John A.
(1991)Text Generation and Systemic-FunctionalLinguistics, Pinter Publishers, LondonSmith, C.S.
(1991) The Parameter of Aspect,Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic.Teich, E. & Henschel, R. (1991) Aspect choice ina fragment of a systemic grammar of Russian,GMD-IPSI, Germany.Vendler, Z.
(1967) Linguistics in Philosophy,Ithaca: Cornell University Press.Yang, G-W. (1999) ??????????????????????
(The semantic relationtypes of complex aspect and the directionalrequirements in  generation), in Proceedings ofthe 5th Chinese Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, Tsinghua University Press, Beijing,p.21-26Yang, G-W. (2001) ?????????????
(The Generation of Chinese ComplexAspect), Zhong1Guo2 Yu3Wen2, 2001 No 5,p.418-427
