Interactive ParaphrasingBased on Linguistic AnnotationRyuichiro HigashinakaKeio Research Institute at SFC5322 Endo, Fujisawa-shi,Kanagawa 252-8520, Japanrh@sfc.keio.ac.jpKatashi NagaoDept.
of Information EngineeringNagoya UniversityFuro-cho, Chikusa-ku,Nagoya 464-8603, Japannagao@nuie.nagoya-u.ac.jpAbstractWe propose a method ?Interactive Paraphras-ing?
which enables users to interactively para-phrase words in a document by their definitions,making use of syntactic annotation and wordsense annotation.
Syntactic annotation is usedfor managing smooth integration of word sensedefinitions into the original document, and wordsense annotation for retrieving the correct wordsense definition for a word in a document.
Inthis way, documents can be paraphrased so thatthey fit into the original context, preserving thesemantics and improving the readability at thesame time.
No extra layer (window) is necessaryfor showing the word sense definition as in con-ventional methods, and other natural languageprocessing techniques such as summarization,translation, and voice synthesis can be easilyapplied to the results.1 IntroductionThere is a large number of documents of greatdiversity on the Web, which makes some of thedocuments difficult to understand due to view-ers?
lack of background knowledge.
In particu-lar, if technical terms or jargon are contained inthe document, viewers who are unfamiliar withthem might not understand their correct mean-ings.When we encounter unknown words in a doc-ument, for example scientific terms or propernouns, we usually look them up in dictionar-ies or ask experts or friends for their mean-ings.
However, if there are lots of unfamiliarwords in a document or there are no expertsaround, the work of looking the words up canbe very time consuming.
To facilitate the effort,we need (1) machine understandable online dic-tionaries, (2) automated consultation of thesedictionaries, and (3) effective methods to showthe lookup results.There is an application which consults onlinedictionaries when the user clicks on a certainword on a Web page, then shows the lookup re-sults in a popped up window.
In this case, theapplication accesses its inner/online dictionariesand the consultation process is automated usingthe viewer?s mouse click as a cue.
Popup win-dows correspond to the display method.
Otherrelated applications operate more or less in thesame way.We encounter three big problems with theconventional method.First, due to the difficulty of word sense dis-ambiguation, in the case of polysemic words, ap-plications to date show all possible word sensecandidates for certain words, which forces theviewer to choose the correct meaning.Second, the popup window showing thelookup results hides the area near the clickedword, so that the user tends to lose the contextand has to reread the original document.Third, since the document and the dictio-nary lookup results are shown in different layers(e.g., windows), other natural language process-ing techniques such as summarization, transla-tion, and voice synthesis cannot be easily ap-plied to the results.To cope with these problems, we realized asystematic method to annotate words in a doc-ument with word senses in such a way thatanyone (e.g., the author) can easily add wordsense information to a certain word using a user-friendly annotating tool.
This operation can beconsidered as a creation of a link between a wordin the document and a node in a domain-specificontology.The ?Interactive Paraphrasing?
that we pro-pose makes use of word sense annotation andparaphrases words by embedding their wordsense definitions into the original document togenerate a new document.Embedding occurs at the user?s initiative,which means that the user decides when andwhere to embed the definition.
The generateddocument can also be the target for another em-bedding operation which can be iterated untilthe document is understandable enough for theuser.One of the examples of embedding a doc-ument into another document is quotation.Transcopyright (Nelson, 1997) proposes a wayfor quoting hypertext documents.However, quoting means importing other doc-uments as they are.
Our approach is to convertother documents so that they fit into the orig-inal context, preserving the semantics and im-proving the readability at the same time.As the result of embedding, there are no win-dows hiding any part of the original text, whichmakes the context easy to follow, and the newdocument is ready to be used for further naturallanguage processing.2 ExampleIn this section, we present how our system per-forms using screenshots.Figure 1 shows an example of a Web docu-ment 1 after the automatic lookup of dictionary.Words marked with a different remains back-ground color have been successfully looked up.Figure 1: Example of a web document showingdictionary lookup resultsThe conventional method such as showing thedefinition of a word in a popup window hides theneighboring text.
(Figure 2)Figure 2: Example of a conventional methodpopup window for showing the definition1This text, slightly modified here, is from ?InternetAgents: Spiders, Wanderers, Brokers, and Bots,?
Fah-Chun Cheong, New Riders Publishing, 1996.Figure 3 shows the result of paraphrasing theword ?agent.?
It was successfully paraphrasedusing its definition ?personal software assistantswith authority delegated from their users.?
Theword ?deployed?
was also paraphrased by thedefinition ?to distribute systematically.?
Theparaphrased area is marked by a different back-ground color.Figure 3: Example of the results after para-phrasing ?agents?
and ?deployed?Figure 4 shows the result of paraphrasing theword in the area already paraphrased.
The word?authority?
was paraphrased by its definition?power to make decisions.
?Figure 4: Example of incremental paraphrasing3 Linguistic AnnotationSemantically embedding word sense definitionsinto the original document without changingthe original context is much more difficult thanshowing the definition in popup windows.For example, replacing some word in a sen-tence only with its word sense definition maycause the original sentence to be grammaticallywrong or less cohesive.This is due to the fact that the word sense def-initions are usually incapable of simply replac-ing original words because of their fixed forms.For appropriately integrating the word sensedefinition into the original context, we employsyntactic annotation (described in the next sec-tion) to both original documents and the wordsense definitions to let the machine know theircontexts.Thus, we need two types of annotations forInteractive Paraphrasing.
One is the word senseannotation to retrieve the correct word sensedefinition for a particular word, and the other isthe syntactic annotation for managing smoothintegration of word sense definitions into theoriginal document.In this paper, linguistic annotation coverssyntactic annotation and word sense annota-tion.3.1 Syntactic AnnotationSyntactic annotation is very useful to make on-line documents more machine-understandableon the basis of a new tag set, and to de-velop content-based presentation, retrieval,question-answering, summarization, andtranslation systems with much higher qual-ity than is currently available.
The newtag set was proposed by the GDA (GlobalDocument Annotation) project (Hasida,http://www.etl.go.jp/etl/nl/gda/).
It is basedon XML , and designed to be as compatibleas possible with TEI (The Text Encoding Ini-tiative, http://www.uic.edu:80/orgs/tei/)and CES (Corpus Encoding Standard,http://www.cs.vassar.edu/CES/).
It specifiesmodifier-modifiee relations, anaphor-referentrelations, etc.An example of a GDA-tagged sentence is asfollows: ?<su><np rel="agt">Time</np><v>flies</v><adp rel="eg"><ad>like</ad><np>an <n>arrow</n></np></adp>.</su>?
?The tag, <su>, refers to a sentential unit.The other tags above, <n>, <np>, <v>, <ad> and<adp> mean noun, noun phrase, verb, adnounor adverb (including preposition and postposi-tion), and adnominal or adverbial phrase, re-spectively.Syntactic annotation is generated by auto-matic morphological analysis and interactivesentence parsing.Some research issues concerning syntactic an-notation are related to how the annotation costcan be reduced within some feasible levels.
Wehave been developing some machine-guided an-notation interfaces that conceal the complexityof annotation.
Machine learning mechanismsalso contribute to reducing the cost becausethey can gradually increase the accuracy of au-tomatic annotation.3.2 Word Sense AnnotationIn the computational linguistic field, word sensedisambiguation has been one of the biggest is-sues.
For example, to have a better translationof documents, disambiguation of certain poly-semic words is essential.
Even if an estimationof the word sense is achieved to some extent, in-correct interpretation of certain words can leadto irreparable misunderstanding.To avoid this problem, we have been pro-moting annotation of word sense for polysemicwords in the document, so that their wordsenses can be machine-understandable.For this purpose, we need a dictionary of con-cepts, for which we use existing domain ontolo-gies.
An ontology is a set of descriptions of con-cepts - such as things, events, and relations -that are specified in some way (such as specificnatural language) in order to create an agreed-upon vocabulary for exchanging information.Annotating a word sense is therefore equal tocreating a link between a word in the documentand a concept in a certain domain ontology.
Wehave made a word sense annotating tool for thispurpose which has been integrated with the an-notation editor described in the next section.3.3 Annotation EditorOur annotation editor, implemented as a Javaapplication, facilitates linguistic annotation ofthe document.
An example screen of our anno-tation editor is shown in Figure 5.Figure 5: Annotation editorThe left window of the editor shows the docu-ment object structure of the HTML document.The center window shows some text that wasselected on the Web browser as shown on theright top of the figure.
The selected area is auto-matically assigned an XPointer (i.e., a locationidentifier in the document) (World Wide WebConsortium, http://www.w3.org/TR/xptr/).The right bottom window shows the linguisticstructure of the sentence in the selected area.
Inthis window, the user can modify the results ofthe automatically-analyzed sentence structure.Using the editor, the user annotates textwith linguistic structure (syntactic and seman-tic structure) and adds a comment to an ele-ment in the document.
The editor is capable ofbasic natural language processing and interac-tive disambiguation.The tool also supports word sense annotationas shown in Figure 6.
The ontology viewer ap-pears in the right middle of the figure.
The usercan easily select a concept in the domain ontol-ogy and assign a concept ID to a word in thedocument as a word sense.Figure 6: Annotation editor with ontologyviewer4 Interactive ParaphrasingUsing the linguistic annotation (syntactic andword sense annotation), Interactive Paraphras-ing offers a way to paraphrase words in the doc-ument on user demand.4.1 InteractivityOne of the objectives of this research is to makeonline documents more understandable by para-phrasing unknown words using their word sensedefinitions.Users can interactively select words to para-phrase by casual movements like mouse clicks.The paraphrase history is stored for later usesuch as profile-based paraphrasing (yet to bedevelopped) which automatically selects wordsto paraphrase based on user?s knowledge.The resulting sentence can also be a targetfor the next paraphrase.
By allowing incremen-tal operation, users can interact with the doc-ument until there are no paraphrasable wordsin the document or the document has becomeunderstandable enough.Interactive Paraphrasing is divided into clickparaphrasing and region paraphrasing accord-ing to user interaction type.
The former para-phrases a single word specified by mouse click,and the latter, one or more paraphrasable wordsin a specified region.4.2 Paraphrasing MechanismAs described in previous sections, the originaldocument and the word sense definitions are an-notated with linguistic annotation, which meansthey have graph structures.
A word correspondsto a node, a phrase or sentence to a subgraph.Our paraphrasing is an operation that replacesa node with a subgraph to create a new graph.Linguistic operations are necessary for creatinga graph that correctly fits the original context.We have made some simple rules (principles)for replacing a node in the original documentwith a node representing the word sense defini-tion.There are two types of rules for paraphrasing.One is a ?global rule?
which can be applied toany pair of nodes, the other is a ?local rule?which takes syntactic features into account.Below is the description of paraphrasing rules(principles) that we used this time.
Org standsfor the node in the original document to beparaphrased by Def which represents the wordsense definition node.
Global rules are appliedfirst followed by local rules.
Pairs to which rulescannot be applied are left as they are.- Global Rules -1.
If the word Org is included in Def , para-phrasing is not performed to avoid the loopof Org.2.
Ignore the area enclosed in parentheses inDef .
The area is usually used for makingDef an independent statement.3.
Avoid double negation, which increases thecomplexity of the sentence.4.
To avoid redundancy, remove from Def thesame case-marked structure found both inOrg and Def .5.
Other phrases expressing contexts in Defare ignored, since similar contexts are likelyto be in the original sentence already.- Local Rules -The left column shows the pair of linguisticfeatures 2 corresponding to Org and Def .
(e.g.N ?
N signifies the rule to be applied betweennodes having noun features.
)2N stands for the noun feature, V , AJ and AD forverbal, adjective and adverbial features respectively.N ?N Replace Org with Def agreeing innumber.N ?
V Nominalize Def and replace Org.
(e.g., explain ?
the explanation of)V ?N If there is a verbal phrase modify-ing Def , conjugate Org using Def ?sconjugation and replace Org.V ?
V Apply Org?s conjugation to Defand replace Org.AD ?N Replace Org with any adverbialphrase modifying Def .AJ ?N Replace Org with any adjectivephrase modifying Def .4.3 ImplementationWe have implemented a system to realize Inter-active Paraphrasing.
Figure 7 shows the basiclayout of the system.
The proxy server in themiddle deals with user interactions, documentretrievals, and the consultation of online dictio-naries.Figure 7: System architectureThe paraphrasing process follows the stepsdescribed below.1.
On a user?s request, the proxy serverretrieves a document through which itsearches for words with word sense anno-tations.
If found, the proxy server changestheir background color to notify the user ofthe paraphrasable words.2.
The user specifies a word in the documenton the browser.3.
Receiving the word to be paraphrased, theproxy server looks it up in online dictio-naries using the concept ID assigned to theword.4.
Using the retrieved word sense definition,the proxy server attempts to integrate itinto the original document using linguisticannotation attached to both the definitionand the original document.5 Related WorkRecently there have been some activities to addsemantics to the Web (Nagao et al, 2001) (Se-manticWeb.org, http://www.semanticweb.org/)(Heflin and Hendler, 2000) enabling comput-ers to better handle online documents.
Asfor paraphrasing rules concerning structureddata, Inui et al are developing Kura (Inuiet al, 2001) which is a Transfer-Based Lexico-Structural Paraphrasing Engine.6 Conclusion and Future PlansWe have described a method, ?Interactive Para-phrasing?, which enables users to interactivelyparaphrase words in a document by their defi-nitions, making use of syntactic annotation andword sense annotation.By paraphrasing, no extra layer (window) isnecessary for showing the word sense definitionas in conventional methods, and other naturallanguage processing techniques such as summa-rization, translation, and voice synthesis can beeasily applied to the results.Our future plans include: reduction ofthe annotation cost, realization of profile-basedparaphrasing using personal paraphrasing his-tory, and retrieval of similar pages for semanti-cally merging them using linguistic annotation.ReferencesJeff Heflin and James Hendler.
2000.
Semantic In-teroperability on the Web.
In Proceedings of Ex-treme Markup Languages 2000.
Graphic Commu-nications Association, 2000. pp.
111-120.Kentaro Inui, Tetsuro Takahashi, Tomoya Iwakura,Ryu Iida, and Atsushi Fujita.
2001.
KURA:A Transfer-Based Lexico-Structural ParaphrasingEngine.
In Proceedings of the 6th Natural Lan-guage Processing Pacific Rim Symposium, Work-shop on Automatic Paraphrasing: Theories andApplications.Katashi Nagao, Yoshinari Shirai, and Kevin Squire.2001.
Semantic annotation and transcoding:Making Web content more accessible.
IEEE Mul-tiMedia.
Vol.
8, No.
2, pp.
69?81.Theodor Holm Nelson.
1997.
Transcopyright: Deal-ing with the Dilemma of Digital Copyright.Educom Review, Vol.
32, No.
1, pp.
32-35.
