Varying Cardinality in Metonymic Extensions to NounsHelmut HoracekUniversit?t des SaarlandesF.R.
6.2 InformatikPostfach 151150D-66041 Saarbr?cken, Germanyemail: horacek@cs.uni-sb.deAbstractMeaning shifting phenomena such as metonymyhave recently attracted increasing interest ofresearchers.
Though these phenomena have beenaddressed by plenty of computational methods,the impacts of cardinalities of metonymicallyrelated items have been widely ignored in all ofthem.
Motivated by this lack of analysis, we havedeveloped a method for representing expect-ations and knowledge about the cardinalities ofmetonymically related entities and for exploitingthis information to build logical forms express-ing metonymic relations, the entities related, andtheir cardinalities.
The representation of lexicallymotivated knowledge is realized as an enhan-cement to Pustejovsky's Generative Lexicon, andthe process of building logical forms takes intoaccount overwriting of default information andmismatch of cardinality requirements.
Ourmethod enables a precise attachment of sentencecomplements, and it supports reference reso-lution in the context of metonymic expressions.1 IntroductionMeaning shifting phenomena such as metonymyhave recently attracted increasing interest.
Com-putational approaches to these phenomena aim atinferring implicitly represented relations, predict-ing meaning shifts of nouns or verbs, expressingrestrictions on these meaning shifts in depen-dency of context- or language-specific factors,and facilitating reference resolution.
Measures toachieve these issues include representation ofdefault knowledge and various sorts of inferencemethods and constructive procedures.
However,the entities in the texts examined almost alwaysappear in singular form so that issues of cardina-lity of metonymically related items have beenwidely ignored by the approaches made so far.Motivated by this lack of analysis, we haveexamined metonymic expressions by varyingcardinalities of the items appearing explicitly orimplicitly, to analyze effects of these alternations.The results have inspired us to build increasinglyexplicit versions of logical forms, and to formul-ate conditions on pronominal accessibility.
Theinsights gained improve analysis methods forrelating contextual specifications to the appropri-ate entity, and for supporting reference reso-lution to entities related implicitly.This paper is organized as follows.
We reviewcomputational approaches to metonymy.
Thenwe illustrate the phenomena investigated.
Weelaborate suitable techniques to deal with thesephenomena, that is, an enhancement to entries inthe Generative Lexicon, and a procedure forbuilding a logical form.
Finally, we discuss im-pacts of our analysis on pronominal resolution.2 Approaches to MetonymyMetonymy is a natural language phenomenonthat contributes to expressing information in aneffective and economic way.
It involves what hasbeen termed 'transfers of meaning' by (Nunberg1995), i.e., the meaning of some constituent doesnot correspond to what can be expected accord-ing to the syntactic and semantic environment ?the speaker is "using one entity to refer toanother that is related to it" (Lakoff andJohnson 1980).
For example, in the utterance"The ham sandwich is waiting for his check" , it isnot literally the ham sandwich, which wants topay, but the person who ordered it.Computational approaches such as the NLdatabase interface TEAM (Grosz et al 1988) areconcerned with inferring implicitly expressedmetonymic relations, mostly in English; someanalyses consider German (Horacek 1996) andFrench (Kayser 1988, Pustejovsky and Bouillon1995).
Prominent representatives include Fass'program met* (1991), which makes use offormal definitions of several kinds of metonymicrelations, Sowa's conceptual graphs (1992), inwhich an a priori unspecific relation is insertedbetween a concept of the type expected and theconcept appearing on the surface, and theTACITUS system (Hobbs et al 1993) whichtreats metonymy as a special case of referenceresolution, in a uniform abduction process to?find the best explanation for the observables?
.Altogether, these approaches have two charac-teristic properties: (1) The conditions expressingwhen leaving a metonymic relation implicit ornot is possible are too unconstrained to cover alarger number of examples in several languages,or to generate sentences with metonymic expres-sions systematically.
(2) The intended and the lit-eral referent always appear in singular definiteform.
There are only three approaches which insome aspects deviate from this characterization.Pustejovsky's Generative Lexicon (1991) ad-dresses the first aspect.
He proposes a Theory ofQualia, with an explanation of systematic polyse-my.
Applying type coercion enables one to arri-ve at cases of ordinary metonymy which can begrounded in terms of the semantics of lexemes,as well as at word senses which Pustejovsky hastermed logical metonymy, like the reading of abook in the sentence ?Mary enjoyed the book?.Such contexts reflect prototypical knowledgederived from AGENTIVE or TELIC roles of thelexical entry for 'book', which are prominentroles in the Qualia Structure of nouns.
Particular-ities of the Qualia Structure of nouns regulate theacceptability of leaving a metonymic relationimplicit (Pustejovsky and Bouillon 1995).Stallard (1993) indirectly addresses thesecond aspect by taking into account scoping re-lations and impacts on pronominal reference.
Heintroduces a distinction between referential andpredicative metonymy, depending on whetherthe intended or the literal argument is accessiblefor subsequent pronominal reference.
This dis-tinction manifests itself in different scope rela-tions that hold between these arguments in thecorresponding logical forms.
We will argueagainst his usage of scoping and the resultingstrict distinction of pronominal accessibility.Markert and Hahn (1997) address interactionsof metonymic relation extension and anaphoraresolution, which enables them to handle textualellipsis references.
They apply extensive langu-age independent conceptual definitions with rela-tional path classifications and preference rules.In their corpus, there are also cases of indefinitemetonymic NPs, which is an indication formetonymic relations to several objects.Though neither Pustejovsky's nor Stallard'sapproach address cardinalities, we show that bothcan be extended accordingly: we augment theGenerative Lexicon by representing cardinalityinformation, and techniques for building logicalforms are enhanced to yield more precise speci-fications of the metonymically related entities.3 Phenomena InvestigatedFor a number of metonymic relations, such asPRODUCER for PRODUCT (?I bought a Ford?
),ARTIST for ARTWORK  (?He plays Bach?
), aswell as eventualities involved in logical meto-nymy, cardinalities are not a problem becausethe literal referents are expressed as propernames.
For other metonymic relations, especiallyORGANIZATION for M E M B E R  and P A R T  forWHOLE, several complications may arise, as thefollowing examples demonstrate.
Let us start withtwo contrastive sentences (1) and (2), taken from(Lakoff and Johnson 1980), and (Hobbs et al1988), respectively (see also (Horacek 1994)):(1) The ham sandwich is waiting for his check.
(1a) He is getting impatient.
(1b)It is 2 $.
(2) The Boston office called.?
(2a) He was angry.
(2b)It is our head quarter.
(2c) They want us to organize a meeting.Following Stallard, (1) is interpreted as an ex-ample of referential reading, while (2) as an ex-ample of predicative reading: (1) can be rephras-ed more explicitly by The manx who has eaten aham sandwichy is waiting for hisx check, while (2) in a similar way gets expanded to The Bostonofficex represented by one of itsx employeesy call-ed.
These reformulations suggest that the man  in(1) and the Boston office in (2) have wider scopein Stallards representation than the ham sand-wich in (1) and the employee in (2), which pre-dicts pronominal accessibility in (1a) and (2b), asopposed to (1b), (2a) and (2c).
We challenge thisanalysis with evidence from the examples above.Pronominal reference in (1b) is also possible, butmay be less common than in (1a).
(2c) seemseven more natural than (2b), only (2a) is unclear.Further complications arise when variations ofcardinality in sentence (1) (see sentences (3) to(6) and their follow-ups), and variation of cir-cumstances in sentence (2) (see the follow-ups ofsentences (7) and (8)) are considered.
For dishesmade of animals ('the mussels'), complicationsarise through interference between animals andpersons as pronominal referents.
Because wewant to study the effects of cardinality variationsper se, we avoid such examples.
(3) The pizzas are waiting for their checks.?
(3a) He/she is getting impatient.
(3b)They are getting impatient.
(4) The fruit dumplings is/are waiting forhis/her/their check(s).
(4a) He/she/they is/are getting impatient.
(5) The meat plate is/are waiting for his/her/their check(s).
(5a) He/she/they is/are getting impatient.
(6) Table 7 is/are waiting for his/her/theircheck(s).
(6a) He/she/they is/are getting impatient.These sentences demonstrate that both intra- ((1)and (3)) and intersentential ((1a) and (3b)) pro-nonminal reference work fine, if the literal ref-erents (here, various sorts of food) and the realreferents (here, the persons) agree in number.Otherwise, a variety of complications arise in in-trasentential reference, which also demonstrate aspecificity of English.
Whereas pronouns agreewith the literal referent in most languages, it isthe intended referent that determines verb agree-ment and pronominal reference in the samesentence in English.
For example, metonymicextension to the expression 'fruit dumplings' isambiguous in the sense that it can refer to oneplate of dumplings to be eaten by a single per-son, or to several plates, each for another person(see the variants in (4)).
Conversely, metonymicextension to the expression 'meat plate' can alsobe interpreted as a reference to several personssharing that dish (see the variants in (5)).
Finally,metonymic extension to the expression 'table'seems to be more neutral with respect to thenumber of persons sharing it (see the variants in(6)).
Thus, the syntactic subject and the verbwould not agree in number in English, when thedefault situation concerning these dishes is pre-sent.
Hence, English is, in principle, more infor-mative than other languages when the cardinalityof the intended referent differs from the numberof the literal referent.
However, those expressionswithout subject/verb agreement are unlikely tooccur in practice, since they appear to be strange.Unlike with intrasentential reference, intersen-tential pronominal reference with number feat-ures deviating from the referent that is pronomi-nally accessible intrasententially is possible dueto default expectations about the cardinality ofthe real referents (compare complementary vari-ants in (4a) and (5a)).
It is more problematic inother cases (see (3a)).
In the less precise referen-ce by the table, all variants in (6a) are felicitous.
(7) The Boston office is represented in themeeting.?
(7a) He/she is an expert in marketing.
(7b) They are experts in marketing.
(7c) They always send someone to meetings.
(8) The Boston office will meet for anexcursion today.
* (8a) He/she likes to walk.
(8b) They will make a lunch break at 2 pm.
(8c) They like to organize social events.The following sentences ((2), (7), (8), and theirfollow-ups) involve slightly harder restrictions.Plural pronominal references as in sentences(7b), (7c), (8b) and (8c) are felicitous, but thereis a difference between the sets of entities theplural pronouns refer to.
While in (7c) and (8c),the pronouns refer to the entire set of employeesof the Boston office, they more plausibly refer tothe representatives in the meeting in (7b) and tothe excursion participants in (8b).
These examp-les indicate an additional demand on the treat-ment of cardinalities and referential accessibilityof metonymic expressions: a distinction is to bemade between the entities referred to metonymi-cally (here: employees of the Boston office), andthose of its members involved in the eventexpressed by the sentence (here: the meeting andthe excursion).
For the restaurant scenario, thesesets of persons are mostly identical except tothose cases where one person out of a group ofpersons eating together and referred to metony-mically is the one who intends to pay.
(9) Which airlines serve food from Boston toNew York ?
(9a) In the first class?As a further aspect of metonymic expressions,the last two examples demonstrate chaining ofmetonymic relations and the relevance of eachset of items involved for the associated analysis.In sentence (9), the airlines are the literal, and thepersons the real referents.
However, relating thesetwo entities directly by an employment relation isproblematic, since it is impossible to connect thelocality information (from Boston to New York)and the first class restriction to either of them.Linking this information appropriately requiresexplicit elaboration of the relation between theairlines and their employees to include theimplicitly referred flights.The consideration exposed so far primarilyhold for English.
Apart from the partitive con-struction, which seems to be a specificity of Eng-lish in comparison to many other languages, theresults can widely be transferred to other langu-ages.
However, there are a lot a language-specificsubtleties which may influence the felicity ornon-felicity of some of the expressions discussedin one particular language.
In order to find out,to what extent other languages behave similar toEnglish, we have asked native speakers of Ger-man, French, Italian, Spanish, Russian, and Viet-namese about the transferabillity of the Englishsentences to these languages.
Though the resultsare subjective to a certain extent (only onespeaker was available for most of these langu-ages), some tendencies became apparent.
Evensentence (1) was considered unacceptable insome languages, in which there is more emphasison referring to persons explicitly.
In Spanish,this seems to be caused syntactically, by theabsence of personal pronouns, while the reasonsseem to be more pragmatically or culturallyrelated in French and Vietnamese, respectively.Moreover, references to objects ((1b) and (2b))appeared unusal in some languages, includingVietnamese and Italian.
Also in German, a de-monstrative pronoun seems to be preferable to apersonal pronoun.
Finally, (2) is quite weird inSpanish, since the alternative 'From the Bostonoffice _ called'  exists (unlike in (7) and (8)).
Inconstrast, precisely (2) is acceptable in Vietname-se, because only 'calling' is considered technical.f o o d ( x )CONST = {ingredients, ?
}FORMAL = eatable(x)TELIC = eat(eT , y ,x )AGENTIVE = cook(e ' T , z ,x )sandwich(x)CONST = {ham, bread, ?
}FORMAL = eatable(x)TELIC = eat(eT , y ,x )AGENTIVE = prepare(e'T ,z ,x)p i z z a ( x )CONST = {dough, tomato, ?
}FORMAL = eatable(x)TELIC = eat(eT , y ,x )AGENTIVE = bake(e'T ,z ,x)Fig.
1.
Some 'standard' examples of Qualia Structures, for 'food', 'sandwich', and 'pizza'4 Expressing Lexical KnowledgeIn order to capture distinctions between thevarying interpretations of metonymic expres-sions, knowledge about the lexical items involvedplays a crucial role.
For adequately expressingthis knowledge, we make use of entries in theGenerative Lexicon (see Figure 1).
Since theinformation represented there is insufficient forreasoning about cardinalities, we extend theentries in the Generative Lexicon, prominentlythe TELIC role, by quantifier specifications.
Inthe original form, the entities involved (typically,the lexical item itself and some related entity) areimplicitly quantified, and a typed event variableis used (an event may be a state (S), a process(P), or a transition (T)).
A similar exploitation oftaxonomic knowledge in terms of cardinalityrestrictions has been undertaken for scope dis-ambiguation in (Fliegner, 1988).In the extended form, we introduce explicitquantifiers and scoping, and we optionally addsort restrictors to variables referred to by eventpredicates.
We introduce new quantifiers to coverthe cases elaborated in the previous section, inaddition to the usual NL quantifiers EXIST andWH: SINGLE and MULTIPLE for a single resp.multiple objects without defaults, DEFSINGLEand DEFMULTIPLE for the same with defaults.Figures 2 and 3 show entries in the GenerativeLexicon with extended TELIC roles.
The sameextensions also apply to the AGENTIVE roles, butwe do not elaborate this aspect here.
Figure 2, forexample, shows some sorts of food associatedwith different expectations about how many per-sons typically eat them.
Fruit dumplings appearas sets (quantified by DEFMULTIPLE), to be eatenas a dish by a single person (quantified by DEF-SINGLE).
For the meat plate, cardinality relationsare inverted.
For a table in a restaurant, relationsto food eaten at that table are not specified.Unlike in the restaurant scenario, cardinalityrelations are less vague for some relations inorganizations.
Each office and each airline aresupposed to employ several persons, and eachperson is working for one organization only, atleast in his/her individual activities (this is ex-pressed by the quantifiers SINGLE and MULTIPLEin the lexical entries in Figure 3).
Each flightcarries some set of people, each of which parti-cipates in one flight only (at the same time).These extensions allow us to derive cardina-lities for the referents involved in a metonymicexpression ?
compare the entries for FRUIT-DUMPLING  and MEAT-PLATE , as contrastingexamples.
To achieve this goal, the knowledgerepresented in the lexicon entries is used forbuilding logical forms in which metonymicrelations are made entirely explicit.
The eventpredicates in the TELIC (or AGENTIVE) roles areexploited to infer the relation involved.
More-over, the new quantification specification yieldscrucial information to build an explicit logicalform with cardinality specifications from concisesurface expressions in a precise manner.5 Building Logical FormsBased on entries in the Generative Lexicon andon the context given by a sentence to be inter-preted, logical forms can be built that representthe semantic relations involved more explicitlythan this is the case with previous approaches.
Ina nutshell, metonymic extensions are triedaccording to specifications found in the lexicon,as long as the sort of an NP  and the sort of thereferring case role are incompatible.
In addition,agreement between syntactic number and seman-fruit -dumpling(x)CONST = {dough, fruit, ?
}FORMAL = eatable(x)TELIC = (DEFSINGLE y(DEFMULTIPLE x( e a t ( e T , y , x ) ) ) )AGENTIVE = cook(e ' T , z ,x )meat -p la te (x )CONST = {pork, beef, ?
}FORMAL = eatable(x)TELIC = (DEFSINGLE x(DEFMULTIPLE y( e a t ( e T , y , x ) ) ) )AGENTIVE = prepare(e'T ,z ,x)t a b l e ( x )CONST = {legs, plate, ?
}FORMAL = physobj (x )TELIC = (DEFSINGLE x(DEFMULTIPLE y( s i t - a t ( e S , y , x ) ) ) )AGENTIVE = build(e'T , z ,x)Fig.
2.
Some 'extended' examples of Qualia Structures, for special food sorts and 'table'o f f i c e ( x )CONST = {employees, ...}FORMAL = organizat ion(x)TELIC = (SINGLE x(MULTIPLE yPERSON( w o r k ( e P , y , x ) ) ) )AGENTIVE = establ i sh(e ' T , z , x )a i r l i n e ( x )CONST = {planes, office, ...}FORMAL = organizat ion(x)TELIC = (SINGLE x(MULTIPLE yFLIGHT( o r g a n i z e( e T , y , x ) ) ) )AGENTIVE = found(e'T,z,x)f l i g h t ( x )CONST = {place, source, ...}FORMAL = loc -change(x)TELIC = (SINGLE x(DEFMULTIPLE yPERSON(carry(eT , y ,x ) ) ) )AGENTIVE = organize(e'T,z,x)Fig.
3.
Some 'extended' examples of Qualia Structures, for 'office', 'airline', and 'flight'tic cardinality specifications is achieved, whichmay require overwriting defaults or introducinga new set of entities as a subset of a known set.
Inconcrete, logical forms are built by pursuing theprocedure in Figure 4.
Logical forms appear as(Q x S <P>), where Q is a quantifier, x and S itsassociated variable and sortal restrictor, and <P>the predication related.
In step 2a, metonymicextensions are carried out, which can potentiallybe chained, and in step 2c a final extension isperformed in case of a cardinality mismatch.
Inthe following, we illustrate the procedure bysome examples.
For sentence (4), ?The fruitdumplings wants to pay?, the initial logical form(MULTIPLE x FRUIT-DUMPLING (WANT-PAY x))contains a sortal incompatibility.
Using the lexi-cal entry for 'fruit dumplings' and expanding theexpression according to the TELIC role yields(SINGLE y PERSON(MULTIPLE x FRUIT-DUMPLING(AND (EAT y x) (WANT-PAY y))))where the sortal incompatibility is removed.Note, that the cardinality of PERSON is singular,due to the inflection of the predicate 'wants'.
InGerman, the quantifier is unspecific concerningthe cardinality, because the sentence predicatewould not give the same indication as this is thecase in English.
For another predicate, such anambiguity may not be present, as in the example(SINGLE x OFFICE (AND (BOSTONIAN x)(CALL x)))Making use of the TELIC role in the lexical entryof 'office', as exposed in Figure 3, yields(SINGLE x OFFICE (AND (BOSTONIAN x)(MULTIPLE y PERSON (AND (WORK y x)(CALL y)))))1.
Build an initial logical form out of the surface expression.The representation is composed as an expression of the form (QE xE SE <P>):xE being the variable whose representation is to be extended (initially x, the literal referent),QE being its quantifier, and SE its sort (initially Q and S, associated with the literal referent), and<P> being a structured representation of the sentence predicate and its modifiers.SR is the sort required in the referring case frame, and QR the quantifier of its case slot restrictions.2.
Extend the meaning of noun phrases which are involved in a sortal incompatibility.2a.
Build a metonymically extended expression by consulting lexical knowledge.Merge the partial expression (QE xE SE <P>) with the extended lexicon representation for SE:(Q1 x1 S1 (AND <P1> (Q2 x2 S2 <P2>))) ?from the lexicon, <Q1,x1,S1> = <QE,xE,SE> and <Q2,x2,S2> = <QN,xN,SN>if the referent with the same sort as xE has wider scope in the lexicon, or with inverted equalities.<P> is partitioned according to sortal compatibility of its components:if x1 = xE then <P1> contains parts that refer to xE, sortally compatible with SE, otherwise <P2>.The remaining parts of <P> become <P2>, if x1 = xE, and <P1> otherwise.2b.Test the compatibility of the newly inserted sort with the restrictions to be met.If SN (SN = S2, if S1 = SE, and SN = S1 otherwise) is incompatible with SR,then repeat step 2a with xN, SN, QN and <PN> as xE, SE, QE and, <P>, respectively;else QR overwrites QN if QN is a default quantifier compatible with QR.2c.
Test the cardinality compatibility of the new sort with the restrictions to be met.If SN is compatible with SR, but QN is incompatible with QR, insert MEMBER between xE and xN.If not the whole set of entities bound to xE participates in the eventuality, insert SUBSET instead.Fig.
4.
The procedure for building logical forms with extended metonymic relationswhich still contains a cardinality incompatibility.Further expanding this form by performing step2c in the procedure leads to the insertion of aMEMBER relation, yielding(SINGLE x OFFICE (AND (BOSTONIAN x)(MULTIPLE y PERSON (AND (WORK y x)(SINGLE z PERSON (AND (MEMBER z y)(CALL z)))))))in which all incompatibilities are resolved.
Pro-ceeding in the same manner, the analysis of thesentence ?The Boston office makes an excur-sion?
yields a similar result, with only two minordeviations, partially grounded in the semanticdifference between 'calling' and 'excursionmaking': (1) The variable z  is quantified byM U L T I P L E  instead of S I N G L E , and (2) theexpression (SUBSET z y) replaces (MEMBER z y).However, obtaining precisely this representation,that is, performing the insertion of the SUBSETrelation, additionally requires some sort of prag-matic knowledge: typically not all members ofan organization participate in events such asexcursions.
Nevertheless, suitable ways to repre-sent such domain-dependent pieces of knowl-edge adequately are delicate.Finally, sentence (9), ?Which airlines servefood from New York to Boston?
?, shows howchained metonymic extensions are handled:(WH x AIRLINE (AND (SERVE x FOOD)(SOURCE x NEW YORK) (GOAL x BOSTON)))The first metonymic extension, based on thelexicon entry for 'airline' (see Figure 3), tenta-tively inserts 'flights' linked to 'airline' via anORGANIZE relation, and yields(WH x AIRLINE (MULTIPLE y FLIGHT(AND (ORGANIZE x y) (SERVE y FOOD)(SOURCE y NEW YORK) (GOAL y BOSTON))))and the final operation based on the lexiconentry for 'flight' (see Figure 3) leads to a similarextension, inserting 'person' related to 'flight' viaa CARRY relation:(WH x AIRLINE(MULTIPLE y FLIGHT (AND (ORGANIZE x y)(SOURCE y NEW YORK) (GOAL y BOSTON)(MULTIPLE z PERSON(AND (CARRY y z) (SERVE z FOOD))))))Note the distinguished treatment of the predi-cations containing the variable which representsthe phrase to be extended, as opposed to theprevious examples.
In all cases discussed so far,appearances of this variable are replaced by thenew variable introduced in the course of anextension.
Here, replacing y by z in the secondextension step is only carried out in (SERVE yFOOD), while y remains unchanged in (SOURCE yNEW YORK) and (GOAL y BOSTON) .
This isbecause SOURCE and GOAL can be established asproperties of flights, while C A R R Y  needs afurther extension to 'person' to be connectedappropriately.
Building explicit logical forms inthis way demonstrates a number of achievementsover other methods:?
Scoping of variables reflects their depen-dencies in the event they are involved in.?
More referents than just the real and the literalreferent may be introduced, through chainedmetonymic extensions or through member-ship/subset insertions.?
An additional referent may provide a properplace to relate sentence complements.Note, that there is a scoping difference between?one and the same person eating several fruitdumplings?
and ?several persons sharing a meatplate?, which contrasts Stallard's approach.Finally, we have to admit that this procedureis overgenerating, as it does not take into accountthe restrictions imposed on the use of metonymicexpressions discussed in Section 3.
The proce-dure is cooperative in the sense that it attempts tointerpret a given metonymic expression, but it isnot strong enough to distinguish felicity or infe-licity of a metonymic expression, which may bedue to various lexical and pragmatic factors.6 Impacts on Reference ResolutionEmpirically supported by the considerablenumber of examples discussed in section 3, ourapproach is able to explain more pronominalreferences to metonymic expressions than others:?
Reference to literal and intended referents ispossible in an increasing number of cases.?
Pronominal reference in plural form may ha-ve as antecedents distinguished sets of entities.?
Cross-language differences in the treatment ofintersentential pronominal reference exist.In order to express scoping relations among setsproperly, the logical forms representing meto-nymic expressions with entities of cardinalitygreater than one must deviate from Stallard'smethods.
According to Stallard, pronominalreference to literal and real referents is regulatedby their scope, which distinguishes referentialfrom predicative kinds of metonymy.
Unfortu-nately, this realization of metonymic extension isincompatible with the common use of scoping.However, we believe that Stallards distinction is insome sense artificial, because the felicity of pro-nominal reference seems to be more complexand influenced by other factors than scoping.For example, the sentence ?the ham sandwich iswaiting for his check?
can be followed by someinformation useful to a novice waiter: ?It costs2$.?
Moreover, the message ?The Boston officecalled?
can be followed by the remark ?He spo-ke angrily?
in some plausible contexts.
Hence, itdoes not seem to be referential inaccessibilitywhich makes many similar examples sound odd,but the rare occurrence and the low coherence inneutral contexts.
For example, it is usually ofminor interest whether the person calling onbehalf of the Boston office is angry himself; it isthe attitude of the responsible representatives atthe office that is usually more interesting.Given these pieces of evidence, referenceresolution is supported by the explicit logicalform built through our techniques, and it is addi-tionally guided as follows:Intrasentential referencePossessive pronouns always relate to the intendedreferent.
Since possessive pronouns in the samesentence agree with the real referent in English,while they agree with the literal referent in mostother languages, only English sentences containinformation about cardinality and gender of theintended referent.
For example, the sentence 'thefruit dumplings is waiting for his check' carriesthe additional implication that there is one maleperson who wants to pay.Intersentential referenceReference through personal pronouns is possibleto the literal and to the real referent, and to refer-ents of the same sort but with possibly differentcardinality as the real referent.
Thus, all entitiesinvolved in a metonymic expression in its ap-pearance in the explicit logical form are potentialantecedents, except to internal elements of ametonymic chain.
For example, following thesentence ?The Boston office called?, pronomi-nal reference is possible to the office (the literalreferent), to the caller (the real referent), and tothe people at the office (differing from the callerby number only).
However, 'the flights' appear-ing in the logical form representing the sentence?Which airlines serve diet food from New Yorkto Boston??
are not pronominally accessible.7 ConclusionIn this paper, we have presented an approach todeal with cardinality aspects of metonymic ex-tensions to nouns.
We have discussed a variety ofconstellations with pronominal references to im-plicitly related items, sometimes associated withsubtle conditions, focusing on English, also in-cluding some language specificities.
In order tobuild explicit logical forms with cardinalityspecifications, we have extended entries in Pustej-ovsky's Generative Lexicon by default quantifierspecifications.
Through exploiting these entries,metonymic extensions are introduced on thebasis of events represented in the roles of theQualia structure, and member or subset relationsare introduced on the basis of the associatedquantifier specification.
Our method for buildingexplicit logical forms challenges Stallard'sdistinction of predicative and referential readingsof metonymic expressions: it produces scopingsthat reflect proper quantifier dominance relationsrather than pronominal accessibility conditions,and it allows for additional cases of pronominalreference.
In addition, our method enables amore precise attachment of contextual specifi-cations to related entities, and it supports refer-ence resolution to metonymically related entities.References(Fass, 1991) Dan Fass.
met*: A Method for Discrimina-ting Metonymy and Metaphor by Computer.Computational  Linguistics 17(1), pp.
49-90,1991.
(Fliegner, 1988) Michael Fliegner.
HOKUSKOPUS -Verwendung terminologischen Wissens bei der Ana-lyse von Quantorenskopus und Distributivit?t.
InProc.
of GWAI-88, pp.
112-117, 1988.
(Grosz et al 1988) Barbara Grosz, Doug Appelt, PaulMartin, and Fernando Pereira.
TEAM: An Exper-iment in the Design of Transportable Natural-Langu-age Interfaces.
Artificial Intelligence 32, pp.
173-243, 1987.
(Hobbs et al 1993) Jerry Hobbs, Mark Stickel, DougAppelt, and Paul Martin.
Interpretation as Abduc-tion.
Artificial Intelligence, pp.
69-142, 1993.
(Horacek 1994) Helmut Horacek.
Some Issues inDealing with Metonymy.
In Proc.
of KONVENS-94,pp.
171-180, Vienna, Austria, 1994.
(Horacek 1996) Helmut Horacek.
On Expressing Meto-nymic Relations in Multiple Languages.
MachineTranslation 11, pp.
109-158, 1996.
(Kayser 1988) Daniel Kayser.
What Kind of Thing is aConcept.
Computational Intelligence 4(2), pp.
158-165, 1988.
(Lakoff and Johnson 1980) George Lakoff and M.Johnson.
Metaphors We Live By.
Univ.
of ChicagoPress, 1980.
(Markert and Hahn 1997) Katja Markert and Udo Hahn.On the Interaction of Metonymies and Anaphora.
InProc.
of IJCAI-97, pp.
1010-1015, Nagoya, Japan,1997.
(Nunberg 1995) Geoffrey Nunberg.
Transfers ofMeaning.
Journal of Semantics 12, pp.
109-132,Oxford University Press, 1995.
(Pustejovsky 1991) James Pustejovsky.
The GenerativeLexicon.
Computational Linguistics 17(4), pp.
409-441, 1991.
(Pustejovsky and Bouillon 1995) James Pustejovsky,and P. Bouillon.
Aspectual Coercion and LogicalPolysemy.
Journal of Semantics 12, pp.
133-162,Oxford University Press, 1995.
(Sowa 1992) John Sowa.
Logical Structures in theLexicon.
In J. Pustejovsky, S. Bergler (eds.
): LexicalSemantics and Knowledge Representation, pp.
39-60, Springer, 1992.
(Stallard 1993) David Stallard.
Two Kinds of Meto-nymy.
In Proc.
of ACL-93, pp.
87-94, Columbus,Ohio, USA, 1993.
