Fertilization of Case Frame Dictionaryfor Robust Japanese Case AnalysisDaisuke Kawahara?
and Sadao Kurohashi??
?Graduate School of Information Science and Technology, University of Tokyo?PRESTO, Japan Science and Technology Corporation (JST){kawahara,kuro}@kc.t.u-tokyo.ac.jpAbstractThis paper proposes a method of fertilizing aJapanese case frame dictionary to handle com-plicated expressions: double nominative sen-tences, non-gapping relation of relative clauses,and case change.
Our method is divided intotwo stages.
In the first stage, we parse a largecorpus and construct a Japanese case frame dic-tionary automatically from the parse results.
Inthe second stage, we apply case analysis to thelarge corpus utilizing the constructed case framedictionary, and upgrade the case frame dictio-nary by incorporating newly acquired informa-tion.1 IntroductionTo understand a text, it is necessary to find outrelations between words in the text.
What isrequired to do so is a case frame dictionary.
Itdescribes what kinds of cases each verb has andwhat kinds of nouns can fill a case slot.
Sincethese relations have millions of combinations,it is difficult to construct a case frame dictio-nary by hand.
We proposed a method to con-struct a Japanese case frame dictionary auto-matically by arranging large volumes of parseresults by coupling a verb and its closest casecomponent (Kawahara and Kurohashi, 2001).This case frame dictionary, however, could nothandle complicated expressions: double nomi-native sentences, non-gapping relation of rela-tive clauses, and case change.This paper proposes a method of fertiliz-ing the case frame dictionary to handle thesecomplicated expressions.
We take an iterativemethod which consists of two stages.
Thismeans gradual learning of what is understoodby an analyzer in each stage.
In the first stage,we parse a large raw corpus and construct aJapanese case frame dictionary automaticallyfrom the parse results.
This is the method pro-posed by (Kawahara and Kurohashi, 2001).
Inthe second stage, we apply case analysis to thelarge corpus utilizing the constructed case framedictionary, and upgrade the case frame dictio-nary by incorporating newly acquired informa-tion.We conducted a case analysis experimentwith the upgraded case frame dictionary, andits evaluation showed effectiveness of the fertil-ization process.2 Japanese GrammarWe introduce Japanese grammar briefly in thissection.Japanese is a head-final language.
Word or-der does not play a case-marking role.
Instead,postpositions function as case markers (CMs).The basic structure of a Japanese sentence is asfollows:(1) kareheganom-CMhonbookwoacc-CMkakuwrite(he writes a book)ga and wo are postpositions which mean nom-inative and accusative, respectively.
kare gaand hon wo are case components, and kaku is averb1.There are two phenomena that case markersare hidden.A modifying clause is left to the modifiednoun in Japanese.
In this paper, we call anoun modified by a clause clausal modifiee.A clausal modifiee is usually a case componentfor the verb of the modifying clause.
There is,however, no case marker for their relation.1In this paper, we call verbs, adjectives, andnoun+copulas as verbs for convenience.
(2) honbookwoacc-CMkaitawritehitoperson(the person who wrote the book)(3) kareheganom-CMkaitawritehonbook(a book which he wrote)In (2), hito ?person?
has ga ?nominative?
rela-tion to kaita ?write?.
In (3), hon ?book?
has wo?accusative?
relation to kaita ?write?.There are some non case-marking postposi-tions, such as wa and mo.
They topicalize oremphasize noun phrases.
We call them topicmarkers (TMs) and a phrase followed by oneof them TM phrase.
(4) karehewaTMhonbookwoacc-CMkaitawrite(he wrote a book)(5) kareheganom-CMhonbookmoTMkaitawrite(he wrote a book also)In (4), wa is interpreted as ga ?nominative?.
In(5), mo is interpreted as wo ?accusative?.3 Construction of the initial caseframe dictionaryThis section describes how to construct the ini-tial case frame dictionary.
This is the first stageof our two-stage approach, and is performed bythe method proposed by (Kawahara and Kuro-hashi, 2001).
In the rest of this section, we de-scribe this approach in detail.The biggest problem in automatic case frameconstruction is verb sense ambiguity.
Verbswhich have different meanings should have dif-ferent case frames, but it is hard to disam-biguate verb senses very precisely.
To dealwith this problem, we distinguish predicate-argument examples, which are collected froma large corpus, by coupling a verb and itsclosest case component.
That is, examplesare not distinguished by verbs such as naru?make/become?
and tsumu ?load/accumulate?,but by couples such as ?tomodachi ni naru?
?make a friend?, ?byouki ni naru?
?becomesick?, ?nimotsu wo tsumu?
?load baggage?, and?keiken wo tsumu?
?accumulate experience?.This process makes separate case frameswhich have almost the same meaning or usage.For example, ?nimotsu wo tsumu?
?load bag-gage?
and ?busshi wo tsumu?
?load supply?
areseparate case frames.
To merge these similarcase frames and increase coverage of the caseframe, we cluster the case frames.We employ the following procedure for theautomatic case frame construction:1.
A large raw corpus is parsed by a Japaneseparser, and reliable predicate-argument ex-amples are extracted from the parse re-sults.
Nouns with a TM such as wa ormo and clausal modifiees are discarded, be-cause their case markers cannot be under-stood by syntactic analysis.2.
The extracted examples are bundled ac-cording to the verb and its closest case com-ponent, making initial case frames.3.
The initial case frames are clustered usinga similarity measure, resulting in the finalcase frames.
The similarity is calculated byusing NTT thesaurus.We constructed a case frame dictionary fromnewspaper articles of 20 years (about 20,000,000sentences).4 Target expressionsThe following expressions could not be handledwith the initial case frame dictionary shown insection 3, because of lack of information in thecase frame.Non-gapping relationThis is the case in which the clausal modifieeis not a case component of the verb in the modi-fying clause, but is semantically associated withthe clause.
(6) kare gahesyudoken woinitiativenigiruhavekaigimeeting(the meeting in which he has the initiative)In this example, kaigi ?meeting?
is not a casecomponent of nigiru ?have?, and there is no caserelation between kaigi and nigiru.
We call thisrelation non-gapping relation.Double nominative sentenceThis is the case in which the verb has twonominatives in sentences such as the following.
(7) kurumacarwaTMengine gaengineyoigood(the engine of the car is good)In this example, wa plays a role of nominative,so yoi ?good?
subcategorizes two nominatives:kuruma ?car?
and engine.
We call this outernominative outer ga and this sentence doublenominative sentence.Case changeIn Japanese, to express the same meaning,we can use different case markers.
We call thisphenomenon case change.
(8) Tom gaTomMaryMarynoofshiji wosupportetaderive(Tom derived his support from Mary)In this example, Mary has kara ?from?
relationto eta ?derive?.
In this paper, we handle casechange related to no ?of?, such as (no, kara).The following is an example that outer nom-inative is related to no case.
(9) kuruma nocarengine gaengineyoigood(the engine of the car is good)The outer nominative of (7) can be nominalmodifier of the inner nominative like this ex-ample.
This is case change of (no, outer ga).There is a different case from the above thatan NP with no modifying a case componentdoes not have a case relation to the verb.
(10) kare gahekaigi nomeetingsyudoken woinitiativenigiruhave(he has the initiative in the meeting)In this example, kaigi ?meeting?
has a no rela-tion to syudoken ?initiative?, but does not have acase relation to nigiru ?have?.
This example is atransformation of (6), and includes case changeof (no, non-gapping).5 Fertilization of case framedictionaryWe construct a fertilized case frame dictionaryfrom the initial case frame dictionary shown insection 3, to handle the complicated expressionsdescribed in section 4.We apply case analysis to a large corpus usingthe dictionary, collect information which couldnot be acquired by a mere parsing, and upgradethe case frame dictionary.The procedure is as follows (figure 1):1.
The initial case frames are acquired by themethod shown in section 3.2.
Case analysis utilizing the case frames ac-quired in phase 1 is applied to a large cor-pus, and examples of outer nominative arecollected from case analysis results.3.
Case analysis utilizing the case frames ac-quired in phase 2 is applied to the largecorpus, and examples of non-gapping rela-tion are collected similarly.4.
Case similarities are judged to handle casechange.5.1 Case analysis based on the initialcase frame dictionaryCase analysis of TM phrases and clausal modi-fiees is indebted to a case frame dictionary.
Thissection describes an example of case analysisutilizing the initial case frame dictionary.
(11) sonothathonbookwaTMkare gahetosyokanlibrarydeinyondaread(he read that book in the library)Case analysis of this example chooses the fol-lowing case frame ?tosyokan de yonda?
?read inthe library?
(?*?
in the case frame means theclosest CM.
).CM examples inputreadnom person, child, ?
?
?
heacc book, paper, ?
?
?
bookloc* library, house, ?
?
?
librarykare ?he?
and tosyokan ?library?
correspond tonominative and locative, respectively, accordingto the surface cases.
The case marker of TMphrase ?hon wa?
?book (TM)?
cannot be under-stood by the surface case, but it is interpretedas wo ?accusative?
because of the matching be-tween ?hon wa?
?book (TM)?
and the accusativecase slot of the case frame (underlined in thecase frame).gano fueruconsumerbankcompany{ }outerga{ }corporationbankJapan { }effectresultprofit}{(1) case frames based onparsing(2) collection ofouter nominative(3) collection ofnon-gapping relation(4) case similarity judgementFigure 1: Outline of our method5.2 Collecting examples of outernominativeIn the initial case frame construction describedin section 3, the TM phrase was discarded, be-cause its case marker could not be understoodby parsing.
In the example (7), ?engine ga yoi?
?the engine is good?
is used to build the initialcase frame, but the TM phrase ?kuruma wa?
?the car?
is not used.Case analysis based on the initial case framedictionary tells a case of a TM phrase.
Corre-spondence to outer nominative cannot be under-stood by the case slot matching, but indirectly.If the TM cannot correspond to any case slots ofthe initial case frame, the TM can be regardedas outer nominative.
For example, in the caseof (7), since the case frame of ?engine ga yoi?
?the engine is good?
has only nominative whichcorresponds to ?engine?, the TM of ?kurumawa?
cannot correspond to any case slots and isrecognized as outer nominative.
On the otherhand, in the case of (11), the TM of hon wais recognized as accusative, because hon ?book?is similar to the examples of the accusative slot.We can distinguish and collect outer nominativeexamples in this way.We apply the following procedure to each sen-tence which has both a TM and ga. To reducethe influence of parsing errors, the collectionprocess of these sentences is done under the con-dition that a TM phrase has no candidates ofits modifying head without its verb.1.
We apply case analysis to a verb which is ahead of a TM phrase.
If the verb does nothave the closest case component and can-not select a case frame, we quit processingthis sentence and proceed to the next sen-tence.
In this phase, the TM phrase is notmade correspondence with a case of the se-lected case frame.2.
If the case frame does not have any caseswhich have no correspondence with thecase components in the input, the TM can-not correspond to any case slots and isregarded as outer nominative.
This TMphrase is added to outer nominative exam-ples of the case frame.The following is an example of this process.
(12) nagailongsumosumowaTMashi-koshi nilegs and loinsfutan gaburdenkakaruimpose(long sumo imposes a burden on legs andloins)Case analysis of this example chooses the fol-lowing case frame ?futan ga kakaru?
?impose aburden?.CM examples inputimpose nom* burden burdendat heart, legs, loins, ?
?
?
legs and loinsfutan ?burden?
and ashi-koshi ?legs and loins?correspond to nominative and dative of the caseframe, respectively, and sumo corresponds to nocase marker.
Accordingly, the TM of ?sumowa?
is recognized as outer nominative, andsumo is added to outer nominative examples ofthe case frame ?futan ga kakaru?.This process made outer nominative of 15,302case frames (of 597 verbs).5.3 Collecting examples of non-gappingrelationExamples of non-gapping relation can be col-lected in a similar way to outer nominative.When a clausal modifiee has non-gapping re-lation, it should not be similar to any exam-ples of any cases in the case frame, because theconstructed case frames have examples of onlycases except for non-gapping relation.
From thispoint of view, we apply the following procedureto each example sentence which contains a mod-ifying clause.
To reduce the influence of pars-ing errors, the collection process of example sen-tences is done under the condition that a verbin a clause has no candidates of its modifyinghead without its clausal modifiee (??
?
?
[modify-ing verb] N1 no N2?
is not collected).1.
We apply case analysis to a verb which iscontained by a modifying clause.
If theverb does not have the closest case compo-nent and cannot select a case frame, we quitprocessing this sentence and proceed to thenext sentence.
In this phase, the clausalmodifiee is not made correspondence witha case of the selected case frame.2.
If the similarity between the clausal modi-fiee and examples of any cases which haveno correspondence with input case com-ponents does not exceed a threshold, thisclausal modifiee is added to examples ofnon-gapping relation in the case frame.
Weset the threshold 0.3 empirically.The following is an example of this process.
(13) gyomubusinesswo itonamucarry onmenkyolicensewo syutoku-shitaget(?
got a license to carry on business)Case analysis of this example chooses the follow-ing case frame ?
{gyomu, business} wo itonamu?
?carry on { work, business }?.CM examples inputcarry on nom bank, company, ?
?
?
-acc* work, business businessNominative of this case frame has no corre-spondence with a case component of the in-put, so the clausal modifiee, menkyo ?license?,is checked whether it can correspond to nom-inative case examples.
In this case, the sim-ilarity between menkyo ?license?
and examplesof nominative is not so high.
Consequently, therelation of menkyo ?license?
is recognized as non-gapping relation, and menkyo is added to exam-ples of non-gapping relation in the case frame?
{gyomu, business} wo itonamu?.
(14) ihouniillegallydenwatelephonegyomubusinesswoitonande-itacarry onutagaisuspect(suspect that ?
carried on telephone busi-ness illegally)In this case, the above case frame is also se-lected.
Since utagai ?suspect?
is not similar tothe nominative case examples, it is added tocase examples of non-gapping relation in thecase frame.This process made non-gapping relation of23,094 case frames (of 637 verbs).Collecting examples of non-gapping rela-tion for all the case framesNon-gapping relation words which have widedistribution over verbs can be considered tohave non-gapping relation for all the verbs orcase frames.
We add these words to examplesof non-gapping relation of all the case frames.For example, 5 verbs have menkyo ?license?
(ex-ample (13)) in their non-gapping relation, and381 verbs have utagai ?suspect?
(example (14)).We, consequently, judge utagai has non-gappingrelation for all the case frames.
We call such aword global non-gapping word.We treated words which have non-gapping re-lation for more than 100 verbs as global non-gapping words.
We acquired 128 global non-gapping words, and the following is the exam-ples of them (in English).possibility, necessity, result, course, case,thought, schedule, outlook, plan, chance,?
?
?5.4 Case similarity judgementTo deal with case change, we applied the fol-lowing process to every case frame with outernominative and non-gapping relation.1.
A similarity of every two cases is calculated.It is the average of similarities between allthe combinations of case examples.
Butsimilarities of couples of basic cases are nothandled, such as (ga, wo), (ga, ni), (wo,ni), and so on.2.
A couple whose similarity exceeds a thresh-old is judged to be similar, and is mergedinto one case.
We set the threshold 0.8 em-pirically.The following example is the case when thisprocess is applied to ?
{setsumei, syakumei} womotomeru?
?demand {explanation, excuse}?.CM examplesdemandnom committee, group,acc* explanation, excusedat government, president,about progress, condition, state,no progress, reason, content,In this case frame, the examples of no ?of?2 aresimilar to those of ni-tsuite ?about?, and the sim-ilarity between them is very high, 0.94, so thesecase examples are merged into a new case no/ni-tsuite ?of/about?.By this process, 6,461 couples of similar casesare merged.
An NP with no modifying a casecomponent can be analyzed by this merging.6 Case AnalysisTo perform case analysis, we basically employthe algorithm proposed by (Kurohashi and Na-gao, 1994).
In this section, our case analysismethod of the complicated expressions shownin section 4 is described.6.1 Analysis of clausal modifieesIf an clausal modifiee is a function word suchas koto ?
(that clause)?
or tame ?due?, or a timeexpression such as 3 ji ?three o?clock?
or saikin?recently?, it is analyzed as non-gapping rela-tion.2In no case in case frames, every noun which modifiesthe closest case component of the verb is collected.The other clausal modifiee can correspondto ga ?nominative?, wo ?accusative?, ni ?dative?,outer ga ?outer nominative?, non-gapping rela-tion, or no ?of?.
We decide a corresponding casewhich maximizes the score3 of the verb in theclause.
If a clausal modifiee corresponds to ga,wo, ni, or outer ga, the relation is decided as itis.
If it corresponds to non-gapping relation orno, the relation is decided as non-gapping re-lation.
In the case of corresponding to no, theclausal modifiee has no relation to the closestcase component of the verb.A clausal modifiee can correspond to non-gapping relation or no under the condition thatsimilarity between the clausal modifiee and caseexamples of non-gapping relation or no is themaximum value (which means two nouns locatein the same node in a thesaurus).
This is be-cause a noun which is a little similar to caseexamples of non-gapping relation may not havenon-gapping relation.6.2 Analysis of TM phrasesIf a TM phrase is a time expression, it is ana-lyzed as time case.
The other TM phrase cancorrespond to ga ?nominative?, wo ?accusative?,or outer ga ?outer nominative?.
We decide acorresponding case which maximizes the scoreof the verb modified by the TM phrase.
Whenthe verb has both a case component with ga anda TM phrase, the case component with ga cor-responds to ga in the selected case frame, andits TM phrase corresponds to wo or outer ga. Ifthe correspondence between the TM phrase andouter ga case components gets the best similar-ity, the input sentence is recognized as a doublenominative sentence.6.3 Analysis of case changeIf the selected case frame of the input verb hasmerged cases which include no ?of?, no case inthe input sentence is interpreted as the counter-part of no between the merged cases.
If not, theno case is considered not to have a case relationto the verb and has no corresponding case inthe case frame.3This score is the sum of each similarity between aninput case component and examples of the correspondingcase in the case frame.Table 1: Case analysis accuracyclausalmodifiee TMour method 301/358 307/34584.0% 88.9%baseline 287/358 305/34580.1% 88.4%Table 2: Non-gapping relation accuracyprecision recall Four method 82/116 82/9270.7% 89.1% 78.8%baseline 88/148 88/9259.5% 95.7% 73.3%7 ExperimentWe made a case analysis experiment onJapanese relevance-tagged corpus (Kawahara etal., 2002).
This corpus has correct tags ofpredicate-argument relations.
We conductedcase analysis on an open test set which consistsof 500 sentences, and evaluated clausal modi-fiees and TM phrases in these sentences.
Toevaluate the real case analysis without influenceof parsing errors, we input the correct structureof the corpus sentences to the analyzer.The accuracy of clausal modifiees and TMphrases is shown in table 1, and the accuracy ofnon-gapping relation is shown in table 2.
Thebaseline of these tables is that if a clausal mod-ifiee belongs to a non-gapping noun dictionaryin which nouns always having non-gapping re-lation as clausal modifiees are written, it is an-alyzed as non-gapping relation.The accuracy of clausal modifiees increasedby 4%.
This shows effectiveness of our fertil-ization process.
However, the accuracy of TMphrases did not increase.
This is because the ac-curacy of TM phrases which were analyzed us-ing added outer nominative examples was 4/6,and its frequency was too low.
The accuracy ofcase change was 2/4.8 Related workThere has been some related work analyzingclausal modifiees and TM phrases.
Baldwin etal.
analyzed clausal modifiees with heuristicrules or decision trees considering various lin-guistic features (Baldwin et al, 1999).
Its ac-curacy was about 89%.
Torisawa analyzed TMphrases using predicate-argument cooccurencesand word classifications induced by the EM al-gorithm (Torisawa, 2001).
Its accuracy wasabout 88% for wa and 84% for mo.It is difficult to compare the accuracy becausethe range of target expressions is different.
Un-like related work, it is promising to utilize ourresultant case frame dictionary for subsequentanalyzes such as ellipsis or discourse analysis.9 ConclusionThis paper proposed a method of fertilizingthe case frame dictionary to realize an analy-sis of the complicated expressions, such as dou-ble nominative sentences, non-gapping relation,and case change.
We can analyze these expres-sions accurately using the fertilized case framedictionary.
So far, accuracy of subsequent an-alyzes such as ellipsis or discourse analysis hasnot been so high, because double nominativesentences and non-gapping relation cannot beanalyzed accurately.
It is promising to improvethe accuracy of these analyzes utilizing the fer-tilized case frame dictionary.ReferencesTimothy Baldwin, Takenobu Tokunaga, andHozumi Tanaka.
1999.
The parameter-basedanalysis of Japanese relative clause construc-tions.
In IPSJ SIJ Notes 1999-NL-134, pages55?62.Daisuke Kawahara and Sadao Kurohashi.
2001.Japanese case frame construction by couplingthe verb and its closest case component.
InProceedings of the Human Language Technol-ogy Conference, pages 204?210.Daisuke Kawahara, Sadao Kurohashi, and Ko?itiHasida.
2002.
Construction of a Japaneserelevance-tagged corpus.
In Proceedings ofthe 3rd International Conference on Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation, pages 2008?2013.Sadao Kurohashi and Makoto Nagao.
1994.A method of case structure analysis forJapanese sentences based on examples incase frame dictionary.
In IEICE Transactionson Information and Systems, volume E77-DNo.2.Kentaro Torisawa.
2001.
An unsupervisedmethod for canonicalization of Japanese post-positions.
In Proceedings of the 6th NaturalLanguage Processing Pacific Rim Simposium,pages 211?218.
