Lexicalisation Strategies in Cooperative Question-Answering SystemsFarah BENAMARA, Patrick SAINT-DIZIERIRIT, 118 route de Narbonne31062 TOULOUSE Cedex, FRANCEbenamara, stdizier@irit.frAbstractIn this project note, we present the main features of lex-icalisation strategies deployed by humans in question-answering (QA) tasks.
We then show how these can bereproduced in automated QA systems, in particular in In-telligent Cooperative Question-Answering Systems.1 MotivationsThe framework of Advanced Question Answering(QA) systems, including cooperative QA answer-ing, as described in a recent road map (Voorees2003), raises new challenges for language gener-ation since answers are often produced via dedi-cated inference mechanisms operating over variousknowledge sources, including conceptual ontolo-gies.
Producing well-formed and informative re-sponses gives a whole new insight to language gen-eration, and in particular to the difficult problem oflexicalisation.For example, the question:A bungalow in Mege`ve for 15 persons ?has the response:There are no bungalows in Mege`ve, we can proposeyou 2 close-by chalets or a country cottage for 15persons in Mege`ve, or a 15 person bungalow in lesHouches (8kms) or in Acacias (12kms),where closely related alternatives are proposed on:(1) sister concepts of bungalow (the question fo-cus): a country cottage or 2 close-by chalets (as-suming a chalet capacity does not exceed 10 per-sons) in the same village or (2) sister concepts ofthe Mege`ve village (the strongest constraint on thefocus): close-by villages where bungalows meet the15 person constraint.
The response involves evalu-ating village proximity and sorting responses, e.g.by increasing distance from Mege`ve.
The first partof the response There are no bungalows in Meg`eveis the direct response, which corrects the user falsepresupposition, while the remainder of the responsereflects the cooperative know-how of the respon-der.
Cooperative know-how involves several formsof responses that include relaxations, intensionalcalculus, expression of restrictions, of warnings andconditional responses (Benamara et al 2004).This simple example shows that, if a direct re-sponse cannot be found, several forms of knowledgeand reasoning schemas need to be used and that theNL form of the response requires adequate and sub-tle lexicalisations, often directed by the reasoningschemas.Lexicalisation is the operation that associates aword or an expression to a concept.
It is a majorparameter in response production (Reiter et Dale,1997), (a good synthesis can be found in (Cahill,1999)).
Lexicalisation is often decomposed into twodifferent stages: lexical choice, which occurs dur-ing content determination, where the lexical termchosen, which may still be underspecified, is depen-dent on reasoning procedures, the knowledge basecontents, and grammatical constraints; and lexicalvariation which is the choice of a particular wordor form among possible synonyms or paraphrases.Lexical variation occurs in the surface realizer, andmay have some pragmatic connotations, for exam-ple an implicit evaluation via the language levelchosen (e.g.
argotic entails low evaluation).In this project note, we show the different facetsof lexicalisation in advanced QA, where the twostages, lexical choice and variation, play crucial andvery distinct roles in the different parts of the re-sponse.
Our model is based on a detailed analysisof QA pairs, and on annotation tasks, from which amodel emerged, suitable for NLG.2 The WEBCOOP project and itsenvironmentThis research is part of the WEBCOOP system (Be-namara et al 2004), that makes a heavy use of arich domain ontology, which is a concept ontologystructured by means of several semantic relations(Cruse 1986).
To better understand the perspectivein which this work has been carried out, let us say afew words about the WEBCOOP project, a systemdesigned to provide cooperative answers to querieson the Web.2.1 Typology of the domain ontologyThe ontology on which our project is based is basi-cally a conceptual ontology where nodes are associ-ated with concept lexicalizations and essential prop-erties, as it is now often the case in restricted domainontologies (http://www.daml.org/ontologies/).
Inour implementation, each node is represented bythe predicate :onto-node(concept, lex, prop)where concept has properties prop, representedas attribute-value pairs, and lexicalisations lex.Most lexicalisations are entries in the lexicon,where morphological and grammatical aspects aredescribed.
For example, for hotel, we have (codedin Prolog):onto-node(hotel,[[hotel], [residence, hoteliere]],[night-rate= X: integer ,nb-of-rooms= N: integer, facilities:List]) .There are several well-designed public domainontologies on the net.
Our ontology is a synthesisof two existing French ontologies, that we cus-tomized: TourinFrance (www.tourinfrance.net)and the bilingual (French and English) the-saurus of tourism and leisure activities(www.iztzg.hr/indokibiblioteka/THESAUR.PDF)which includes 2800 French terms.
We manuallyintegrated these ontologies in WEBCOOP (Be-namara et al 2004a) and added ourselves mostproperties by hand.
We also revised slightly theontology by removing concepts which are eithertoo specific (i.e.
too low level), such as some basicaspects of ecology or rarely considered, as e.g.the economy of tourism.
We also removed quitesurprising classifications such as sanatorium undertourist accommodation.
We finally reorganizedsome concept hierarchies, so that they ?look?
moreintuitive for a large public.
Finally, we found thatsome hierarchies are a little bit odd, for example,we found at the same level accommodation ca-pacity and tourist accommodation whereas, in ourcase, we consider that capacity is a property of theconcept tourist accommodation.We have, at the moment, 1000 concepts in ourtourism ontology which describe the different as-pects of accommodation and transportation and afew other satellite elements (geography, health, im-migration).
Besides the traditional ?isa?
relation, wealso coded the ?part-of?
relation and the opposition.We also have a few proportional series in order toencode graduality.
In the tourism domain there isa reasonable number of part-of pairs, and a smallnumber of opposites and proportional series.
Syn-onymy is encoded via the list of lexicalizations.
En-coding these relations is straightforwardly realizedby introducing facts, which operate at the conceptlevel, not at the lexicalization one:part-of(journey, trip).As shall be seen below, this ontology is futher an-notated for lexicalization tasks.Finally, in (Benamara et al 2004), we define aconceptual metrics that determines the distance be-tween two concepts, evaluated in terms of distancein the hierarchy between the two concepts and prop-erty differences (nature of properties and values as-sociated).2.2 Outline of WEBCOOPFollowing Grice?s maxims (Grice, 1975) and re-lated works, e.g.
(Searle, 1975), in the early 1990s,a number of forms of cooperative responses wereidentified.
Most of the efforts in these studies andsystems focussed on the foundations and on the im-plementation of reasoning procedures (Gal, 1988),(Minock et al., 1996), while little attention waspaid to question analysis and NL response gener-ation.
An overview of these systems can be foundin (Gasterland et al, 1994) and in (Webber et al.,2002), based on works by (Hendrix et al., 1978),(Kaplan, 1982), (Mays et al., 1982), among oth-ers.
These systems include e.g.
the identificationof false presuppositions and various types of misun-derstandings found in questions.
They also includereasoning schemas based e.g.
on constant relaxationto provide approximate or alternative, but relevant,answers when the direct question has no response.Intensional reasoning schemas can also be used togeneralize over lists of basic responses or to con-struct summaries.The framework of Advanced Reasoning forQuestion Answering (QA) systems, as described ina recent road map, raises new challenges since an-swers can no longer be only directly extracted fromtexts (as in TREC) or databases, but require the useof a domain knowledge base, including a concep-tual ontology, and dedicated inference mechanisms.Such a perspective, obviously, reinforces and givesa whole new insight to cooperative answering.In WEBCOOP, user questions may range fromkeywords to comprehensive natural language ex-pressions.
Their parse produces a semantic logi-cal representation that includes the question con-ceptual category, the question focus and the ques-tion contents.
Responses are structured in two parts.The first part contains explanation elements in nat-ural language.
It is a first level of cooperativitythat reports user misconceptions, if any, in rela-tion with the domain knowledge.
The second partis the most important and the most original.
It re-flects the know-how of the cooperative system, go-ing beyond the cooperative statements given in thefirst part.
It is based on intensional description tech-niques and on intelligent relaxation procedures go-ing beyond classical generalization methods used inAI.
This component also includes additional dedi-cated cooperative rules that make a thorough use ofthe domain ontology and of general knowledge.
Re-sponses provided to users are built in web style, byintegrating natural language generation (NLG) tech-niques with hypertext links to produce ?dynamic?responses.
Hyperlinks are dynamically created atgeneration time.
This leaves up to the user the high-level planning tasks inherent to NLG and improvesreadability and information access.
The standardgeneration difficulties (lexicalisation, aggregation,argumentation) remain crucial to generate cooper-ative responses, but their web-style greatly reducesthe overall complexity.The goal of the present contribution is to clarifyand model the lexicalization aspects, which are, infact, in close dependence with the aggregation func-tions.3 Investigating lexicalisations fromcooperative QA corporaTo carry out our study, we considered threetypical sources of cooperative discourses: Fre-quently Asked Questions (FAQ), Forums, and emailquestion-answer pairs (EQAP), these latter obtainedby sending ourselves emails to relevant services(e.g.
for tourism: tourist offices, airlines, ho-tels).
Our study was carried out on 670 cooperativequestion-answer pairs.
We have about 50% pairscoming from FAQ, 25% from Forums and 25% fromEQAP.
The domains considered are basically large-public applications: tourism (45%), health (22%),sport, shopping and education (19%).
In all thesecorpora, no user model is assumed, and there is nodialogue: QA pairs are isolated, with no context, ina way similar to web search engine querying.4 Lexicalisation strategies deployed byhumansFrom the analysis of these QA pairs, we have identi-fied the main lexicalisation strategies presented be-low.
Between parentheses are introduced XML-type labels, used to annotate our corpora.?
Identity (ID): the term in the question is keptunchanged in the response,?
Quasi-synonyms (SYN): under this term, weobserve a large spectrum of variations:SYN(a) terms which are almost equivalent(have/possess),SYN(b) usages with a specific orientation orconnotation, such as the use of commerciallyoriented terms to attract customers or of moretechnical terms, possibly with slight nuances,on the part of the responder (refund / finan-cial compensation, breathing stops / respira-tion pauses), quite typical of financial or healthcorpora where the responder is often a profes-sional,SYN(c) transcategorial variations or shortparaphrases (international ?
from the entireworld, from abroad, from all the countries inthe world).
This latter subclass is much moredifficult to characterize, it often indicates aform of insistence or stress, or the desire tomake information more explicit (e.g.
interna-tional is really from all the countries in theworld),?
Opposites (OPP): used on a limited scale toaccount e.g.
for the differences in point of viewbetween the questioner and the responder (e.g.lend / borrow, pay/charge, stay/leave) (Cruse1986).?
Subtypes (SUB): often subtypes in the ontol-ogy (accommodation ?
hotel, motel, bunga-low, country cottage, etc.)
or enumerationsof basic terms (e.g.
different types of creditcards).
We have the following main subtypes:SUB(a) lower-level elements in an ontology(possibly terminal elements),SUB(b) focuses on sub-events or sub-activitiesof the larger event lexicalised in the question,or (simple) procedure description instead ofthe procedure name, andSUB(c) subtyping via modification (officialguide, mountain guide).?
Sisters (SIS) are used when the response in-troduces minor superficial corrections to theterms used in the question (not as important asfalse presuppositions), often related to ?lexicalapproximations?
(e.g.
bungalow used insteadof hut, cabin in a camping), these should notbe confused with SYN(b).
SIS is also useful innegative responses, where the correct responseis a sister of the concept used in the query (ismy metro ticket valid on the bus ?
no, you needto buy a bus ticket).?
Generalizations (GEN): their main use is in in-tensional answers, where generalizations arerealized to make the answer more compact.Generalizations can also be used e.g.
to insiston a certain facet of the term (castle / building),or to provide a certain form of help (where isthe Dominican Republic ?
?
in the Antilles).It is possible, in addition, to indicate the gener-alization level w.r.t.
the ontology.?
Metonymies (MET): are relatively frequent,and focus on a particular ?facet?
of the termused in the question to better emphasize a par-ticular aspect, such as a means or an instrumentof an action, or use of make for object, con-tainer for containee.?
Fuzzy term interpretation (FTI): close inter-preted as 50 meters.These lexical variations are relatively well dis-tributed over the above different categories, roughlyas follows (all situations included) in % :ID SYN OPP SUB SIS GEN MET FTI32% 21% 2% 21% 4% 5% 14% 2%As the reader may note it, almost none of theselexical variations are neutral.
They convey a spe-cific connotation, point of view, focus or they mayactivate a concept property or facet usually in thebackground.To have a more systematic analysis of lexicali-sation, we manually annotated lexicalisation formsin QA pairs.
The examples in Fig.
1, on the nextpage, illustrate several forms frequently encoun-tered.
Terms considered are labelled as T1, T2, etc.
(including terms within the focus), a special annota-tion is reserved for the whole structure identified asthe focus (FOC) and op= specifies the variation op-eration at stake (e.g.
SYN(a), SUB(b), etc.).
Q1-R1have several layers of lexicalisations: guided touris a subtype of visit, guided tours at fixed hours11AM and 3 PM is a subtype of visit hours, whilebuilding is a generalization of castle, necessary toallow for the reference to town hall, since buildingis the least upper bound in the ontology for castleand town hall.
Q2-R2 stresses on and makes moreexplicit drinkable in water from the tap, while Q3-R3 requires the GEN strategy, which is the simplestway to locate a country or any object, via its rela-tions with others.5 Enriching the ontology forlexicalisations tasks in NLGLet us consider again the ontology presented in sec-tion 2.1.
It needs some refinements so that the lex-icalization situations identified can be automated.Let us consider the main cases.SYN(a) is based on the set of lexicalizationsassociated with the concept considered.
SYN(b)requires lexicalisations to be marked according totheir language level, in our case: slang, popularterm, standard term (the one chosen by default) andtechnical term.
SYN(c) requires another type ofnotation: the category of the lexicalisation: wordversus expression + category.
For example, possessis marked technical (contrasted with have), andfrom the entire world is identified as an expressionof type PP.
In terms of coding, the last example iscoded as:lex([from,the,entire,world],standard, expr:pp).Opposites are encoded via a specific set of facts inthe ontology at the concept level, same for SUB(b)where subactivites of an activity are considered asparts.
Treating SIS is more delicate since all thesisters of a node may not be appropriate.
At thislevel, we use the conceptual metrics advocated insection 2.1, with a quite high threshold, that we pa-rameterize to evaluate its best level.
The metrics ishighly dependent on the number of properties en-coded, but it seems hard to have another strategy,since sampling methods would require too muchcorpus work.
As an example, hut and cabin are con-sidered as close sisters of bungalow, but chalet andcountry cottage are more remote.
This aspect is cru-cial when relaxing concepts to find alternative solu-tions.Finally, metonymies will not be treated at the mo-ment and FTI are dealt with in a more or less ad?hocway, using simple and naive geometrical considera-tions.6 A lexicalisation model for QAAs shown in Fig.
2, lexicalisation strategies inQA pairs occur at five levels: L1: between thequery and the direct response, L2: between thequestion and the cooperative know-how part, L3:within the direct response (insistence, paraphrases,exclusions, etc.
), L4: between the direct responseand the know-how part, and, finally, L5: within theknow-how part, which may be composed of severalcomponents, as shown in (Benamara et al.
2004b).It seems that L1, L2, L3, L4 and L5 are organizedhierarchically in the lexicalisation process.6.1 The relation L1Let us concentrate on the question focus, which isthe term the most sensitive to lexical variation (vari-ations on other terms are essentially synonyms).
Letus first consider L1, the lexicalisation strategies be-tween the question and the direct response.
TheQ1: What are the < FOC >< T2 >< T 3 > visit < /T 3 > hours < /T 2 > of the < T 1 > castle ?
< /T 1 ></FOC >R1: This< T 1 op = GEN >building< /T 1 > being the town hall, there are only< T 2 op = SUB >< T3 op =SUB > guided tours < /T 3 > at fixed hours: 11 AM and 3 PM < /T 2 >.Q2: Is water < FOC > drinkable < /FOC > in the Dominican Republic ?R2: No, you must not < FOC op = SY N(c) > drink water from the tap < /FOC >, always water from bottles.Q3: < FOC > Where < /FOC > is the Dominican Republic ?R3: It is in the very heart of < FOC op = GEN > the Caribbean < /FOC >, it is the second largest <FOC op = GEN > island of the Antilles< /FOC >.Figure 1: Lexicalisation annotationsFigure 2: Lexicalisation relations in a QA pairmain criterion turns out to be the ?conceptual?
over-lap, observed in the domain ontology, between theresponse elements and the question focus.
This isdetermined by comparing the subtree ST1 in the do-main ontology whose root is the concept associatedwith the question focus, with the subtree ST2 as-sociated with the response, or, in case of an enu-meration, the smallest subtree that includes all thesolutions.
We basically have four situations:?
Focus adequate w.r.t.
the response: both sub-trees coincide, or ST2 is a proper subtree ofST1, (Q: what kind of tourist accommodationin Chamonix?
R: we have all kinds of hotels,bungalows, chalets and campings),?
Focus too large: ST2 is only a portion of aproper subtree of ST1 (Q: what kind of touristaccomodation in La Trairie?
we have onlycabins and bungalows),?
Focus too narrow: ST2 is larger than ST1, i.e.ST2 dominates ST1 or has elements not in-cluded into ST1, for example: (Q: An expresstrain to Marseille at 11.PM ?
R: We have anexpress train at 11.15, but also a TGV, which ismuch faster, at 11.25., where there is a gener-alization over the types of trains,?
Shifts: ST2 is not included into ST1 (but, insome cases, a few solutions can be common)(what hotel categories ?
we only have camp-sites and bungalows).The above situations are categorized in terms ofthe lexicalisation functions below, percentage perfocus situation is given for L1 only, more pragmaticaspects are briefly commented:Focus Lexicalisation Strategies(1) Adequate, ID, SYN(a)Response SYN(b) specific orientationpositive or SYN(c) for stressnegative (40%) SUB(a)(b) for a more refinedresponse via enumeration(2) Too large SUB(c), MET,(21%) SUB(a,b) for enumerations(3) Too GENrestricted (6%) reference to generic concepts(4) Fuzzy or FTI,needs an SYN not interpretedinterpretation (2%)(5) Adequate SUB(a)(b) for enumerationswithconditions (18%)(6) Minor SIS for adjustmentsshifts (13%)In an NLG system, more schematic than real-lifecorpora, the above strategies allow for the produc-tion of adequate lexicalisations for the following sit-uations, which seem to cover all the cases we foundfor yes/no and entity (what is, who) questions:illustration: Q: what kinds of hotels in Mege`ve??
direct response, simple or complex, (ID,SYN), we have all kinds of hotels in Mege`ve.?
response with restrictions (SYN, ID + SUB,GEN + SUB), We have all kinds of touristaccomodation except 4* hotels and huts, orsimple adaptations (SIS),?
response scoping on precise subtopics orsubtypes (SUB), response can be negative onthe query focus and then positive on a subtype:We do not have hotels, but comfortable, highstandard, chalets,?
response with some form of generalization(as in example Q1), We have all types oftourist accomodation, from the cheapest to thefanciest (GEN, least upper bound),?
response with interpretation of fuzzy term(FTI),?
response with conditions, or case structures(SUB), we have 2* hotels at 30-60 Euros, 3*hotels at 50-80 Euros, etc.?
response with forms of stress, insistence, ex-plicitation via enumerations or paraphrases(SYN, SUB, OPP, GEN), we have all types ofhotels: 2*, 3*, 4* and even 5* hotels.The implementation of L1 is functionally quitestraightforward.
The reasoning component pro-duces a logical formula, from which the NLG func-tions (lexicalisation, but also aggregation and mi-croplanning) operate.
As indicated in the above ar-ray, the generator evaluates the relative overlapp be-tween the question focus and the response.
It canthen activate, for the terms to generate, the rele-vant lexicalisation function(s).
The GEN function isquite specific since it has also some stylistic motiva-tions, it is described in depth in (Benamara 2004).There are, at this level, several choices, that wemanage via preferences given a priori since we donot have any user model.
Stress and various ad-ditional enumerations have essentially a pragmaticmotivation, as indicated above.
At the implementa-tion level, these can just be parameterized.6.2 The relations L2, L3 and L4Within the direct response, the most direct lexical-isation forms (L3, Fig.
2), can be paired with cat-egories like OPP, SUB, FTI or MET.
OPP is usedwithin the response to reinforce some terms by say-ing what they are not.
MET is in general a form ofstress or focus on a particular point.
MET is pro-duced via the concept properties of the ontology.SUB(a)(b) are also used as forms of elaborations, tomake more explicit a term (e.g.
we accept all formsof payments: cheques, credit cards, cash, money or-ders, etc.
), or to give a precision, possibly using FTI.Such lexicalisations have a strong pragmatic basis.However, in NLG, the use of OPP or of SYN(a)(b)can be motivated either by the user model, or, if itdoes not exist, by the need of some elaboration ifsome concepts in the response are complex or quiteremote from the original question focus.
The im-plementation relies on the conceptual metrics, alsoused for concept relaxation (Benamara et al2004a)and also on manually marked really complex con-cepts in the ontology.
The lexicalization programmeis simply able to propose additional lexicalizations,structured by the aggregation procedure, e.g.
as alist of SUB or OPP.In the know-how part of the cooperative response,lexicalisation strategies (L2) are more rigid, sincethey are guided by the reasoning procedures.
Weobserve a large number of relaxations, involvinglexicalisations based on SUB, SIS or GEN, depend-ing on how the ontology is traversed by relaxation.Several intensional operations are also developed tomake the response more compact, involving lexical-isations based on GEN (Benamara 2004).
Lexical-ization choices totally depend on the reasoning pro-cedures and are just direct language realizations ofthe concepts introduced by relaxation or generaliza-tion inference schemas.There are lexicalisation relations between the di-rect response and the know-how part (L4, which hassome relations with L2) in particular when the directresponse is negative.
The know how part involvesrealisations which are in:- GEN, SUB, SIS or FTI relation with the term usedin the direct response when relaxation or intentionalcalculus is used in the know how part,- SYN or SUB relation when the know-how part is awarning or a restriction.
Pronominal or other formsof references are possible at this level (yes, we dohave cabins, but they can only be rent on a weeklybasis).6.3 The relation L5The relation L5 has a specific status, it covers a largenumber of situations, we therefore simply evokeprototypical situations here.
Its motivation comesfrom the fact that the know how part of a responseis composed, in general, of several segments, calledmeaningful units.
As explained in detail in (Bena-mara et al.
2004b), the know-how part is in gen-eral composed of a response elaboration (related toconstraint relaxation, or any other type of inference)followed by a number of additional information un-der the form of justifications, warnings, restrictions,counter-proposals, etc.For example, in the following example, we haveseveral segments:Q: How can I get to the Borme castle ?Direct response + elaboration: You must take theGR90 from the old castle:additional information - precision: walking dis-tance: 30 minutes.warning: There is no possibility to get there by car.In this example, the warning segment uses a kindof opposite of walking, namely driving, to warn theuser e.g.
about the lack of alternative.The following example has a know-how partbased on relaxation, and then proposes an alterna-tive to cinemas by means of a sister concept:Q: Is there a cinema in Borme ?Direct response: No,Know-how (relaxation on the localization): theclosest cinema is at Londes (8 kms) or at Hyeres,Cinema Olbia (at 20 kms).Additional information (counter-proposal on the ac-tivity) : however, there is a niceopen air theater inBorme.In this latter example, we see that, again, the addi-tional information segment introduces a sister con-cept of cinema.Implementing L5 is largely dependent on the rea-soning procedures, on the knowledge found in thedatabase, and on the way the general form of the re-sponse is planned.
The role of lexicalisation here isessentially choosing the appropriate terms, with theappropriate level in the ontology.7 PerspectiveThis study shows several original lexicalisationstrategies in advanced, cooperative QA forms.
Lex-ical choice, realized in the content determinationphase in conjunction with the cooperative inferenceschemas, mainly involves the SIS, GEN, SUB, FTIand ID functions, whereas lexical variation, realizedat the level of the surface realizer, along the fiverelations L1, L2, L3, L4 and L5, mainly involvesSYN, OPP and MET, characterized by the produc-tion of lists of potential candidate words.
This latterlevel interacts also with grammatical considerationssuch as aggregation (Reiter and Dale 1997) or theuse of alternations.These lexicalisations require a quite advanced do-main model, necessary for the development of co-operative functions, in particular a rich ontology.These functions have been tested in the WEBCOOPprototype, that cooperatively responds to queries onthe WEB, on the tourism domain (accommodationand transportation).This study can be applied to open generation, ona purely conceptual representation basis, or to morerestricted forms of generation, such as underspeci-fied templates with calls to lexicalisation.Acknowledgements We thank the CNRS GDRTCAN and Ve?ronique Moriceau for providing uscorpora and for helpful discussions.
We also thankthe three reviewers for their useful comments.ReferencesBenamara, F, Saint Dizier, P., Advanced Relaxationfor Cooperative Question Answering, in NewDirections in Question Answering, Chapter 21.Mark T. Maybury (ed.
), AAAI/MIT Press, 2004a.Benamara, F., Moriceau, V., Saint-Dizier, P.,COOPML: Towards Annotating CooperativeDiscourse, in Workshop on discourse annotation,ACL?04, Barcelona, July 2004b.Benamara, F., AAAI.Cahill, L., Lexicalisation in applied NLG systems,Research report, ITRI-99-04, 1999.Cruse, A., Lexical Semantics, CUP, 1986.Gal, A., Cooperative Responses in DeductiveDatabases, PhD Thesis, Univ.
of Maryland,1988.Gaasterland, T., Godfrey, P., Minker, J., AnOverview of Cooperative Answering, Papers innon-standard queries and non-standard answers,Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1994.Grice, H., Logic and Conversation, in Cole andMorgan (eds), Syntax and Semantics, AcademicPress, 1975.Hendrix, G., Sacerdoti, E., Sagalowicz, D., Slocum,J., Developing a Natural Language Interface toComplex Data, ACM transactions on databasesystems, 3(2), 1978.Kaplan, J., Cooperative Responses from a PortableNatural Language Query System, in M. Bradyand R. Berwick (ed), Computational Models ofDiscourse, 167-208, MIT Press, 1982.Lehnert, W., The Process of Question Answering:a Computer Simulation of Cognition, LawrenceErlbaum, 1978.Mays, E., Joshi, A., Webber, B., Taking the Ini-tiative in Natural Language Database Interac-tions: Monitoring as Response, EACL?82, Orsay,France, 1982.Minock M, Chu W, Yang H, Chiang K, Chow, Gand Larson, C, CoBase: A Scalable and Exten-sible Cooperative Information System.
Journal ofIntelligent Information Systems, volume 6, num-ber 2/3,pp : 223-259, 1996.Reiter, R., Dale, R., Building Applied Natural Lan-guage Generation Systems, Journal of NaturalLanguage Engineering, volume 3, number 1,pp:57-87, 1997.Searle, J., Indirect Speech Acts, in Cole and Morgan(eds), Syntax and Semantics III, Academic Press,1975.Voorees, E. M., Overview of the TREC 2002 Ques-tion Answering Track.
Proceedings of TREC-11,NIST, 2003.
