Resolving Individual and Abstract Anaphora in Texts andDialoguesCostanza NavarrettaCenter for Sprogteknologi, University of CopenhagenNjalsgade 802300 Copenhagen Scostanza@cst.dkAbstractThis paper describes an extension of thedar-algorithm (Navarretta, 2004) for re-solving intersentential pronominal anaphorsreferring to individual and abstract enti-ties in texts and dialogues.
In dar indi-vidual entities are resolved combining mod-els which identify high degree of saliencewith high degree of givenness (topicality)of entities in the hearer?s cognitive model,e.g.
(Grosz et al, 1995), with Hajic?ova?
etal.
?s (1990) salience account which assignsthe highest degree of salience to entitiesin the focal part of an utterance in Infor-mation Structure terms, which often intro-duce new information in discourse.
Anaph-ors referring to abstract entities are resolvedwith an extension of the algorithm pre-sented by Eckert and Strube (2000).
Theextended dar-algorithm accounts for differ-ences in the resolution mechanisms of differ-ent types of Danish pronouns.
Manual testsof the algorithm show that dar performsbetter than other resolution algorithms onthe same data.1 IntroductionAlthough most pronominal anaphora resolu-tion algorithms only account for anaphors re-ferring to individual entities, anaphors re-ferring to abstract entities evoked by verbalphrases, clauses or discourse segments (hence-forth APAs) are quite common in English seei.a.
(Byron and Allen, 1998) and even morein Danish (Navarretta, 2004).
Recently, twoalgorithms for resolving APAs and individ-ual pronominal anaphors (henceforth IPAs) inspecific English dialogues have been proposedEckert and Strube?s (2000) es00 and Byron?s(2002) phora.
Furthermore Strube and Mu?ller(Strube and Mu?ller, 2003) have presented amachine learning approach for resolving APAsin spoken dialogues.1 Both es00 and phora1We do not discuss this approach further in this pa-per.recognise IPAs and APAs on the basis of se-mantic constraints on the argument position oc-cupied by the anaphors and account for differ-ences in reference between personal and demon-strative pronouns.
In es00 demonstrative pro-nouns preferentially refer to abstract entities,while personal pronouns preferentially refer toindividual ones.
es00 resolves IPAs applyingStrube?s (1998) algorithm.
In phora the an-tecedents of personal pronouns are searched forlooking at their degree of salience which is im-plemented by word order as in (Grosz et al,1995).
Demonstratives, instead, are searchedfor in the list of activated entities (Gundel et al,1993) containing non NP antecedents, which areassumed to be less salient.
In phora demon-stratives can also refer to Kinds.es00 requires that the structure of dialogueshas been marked.
Byron?s phora-algorithmdoes not rely on predefined dialogue structure,but only searches for abstract antecedents ofAPAs in the sentence preceding the anaphor.Thus it does not account for APAs referring tolarger discourse segments.
phora relies on bothsemantic knowledge and a model of speech actsand accounts for more phenomena than es00.Differing from es00, phora has been imple-mented.To resolve IPAs and APAs in Danish textsand dialogues Navarretta (2004) has proposedthe so-called dar-algorithm (Navarretta, 2004).In dar APAs are resolved following the es00strategy, but dar accounts for the Danish ab-stract anaphors which occur in much more con-texts than the English ones.
Individual anaph-ors are resolved in dar following a novel strat-egy which combines models which identify highdegree of salience with high degree of givenness(topicality) of entities in the hearer?s cognitivemodel, e.g.
(Grosz et al, 1995), with Hajic?ova?et al?s (1990) salience account which assigns thehighest degree of salience to entities in the focalpart of an utterance in Information Structureterms.
These entities often introduce new in-formation in discourse.In the present paper we describe an extendedversion of the dar-algorithm accounting for dif-ferences in the reference of various types of Dan-ish demonstratives which we found analysingthe uses of pronouns in three text collections(computer manuals, novels and newspaper ar-ticles) and three corpora of recorded naturally-occurring dialogues (the sl (Duncker and Her-mann, 1996), the bysoc (Gregersen and Peder-sen, 1991) and the pid corpora (Jensen, 1989)).In the following we first discuss the backgroundfor our proposal (section 2) then we describethe extended dar-algorithm (section 3).
In sec-tion 4 we evaluate it and compare its perfor-mance with that of other known algorithms.
Fi-nally we make some concluding remarks.2 Background for DARIn most applied approaches resolving pronom-inal anaphors mainly consists in the followingsteps: 1: determining the anaphoric antecedentdomain; 2: choosing the most prominent orsalient antecedent among possible candidates.Thus determining the degree of salience of dis-course elements, henceforth DEs, is essential toanaphor resolution.
Although there is not al-ways an identity relation between linguistic an-tecedents and referents, we also follow this strat-egy, well aware that it is particularly problem-atic for resolving APAs (se especially (Webber,1991)).
Nearly all salience-based algorithmsidentify high degree of salience with high de-gree of givenness of DEs.
In fact, although dif-ferent criteria are used for ranking DEs, such aslinear order, hierarchy of grammatical roles, in-formation structure, Prince?s Familiarity Scale(Prince, 1981), all algorithms assign the highestprominence to the DEs which are most topi-cal, known, bound, familiar and thus given, e.g.
(Grosz et al, 1995; Brennan et al, 1987; Strube,1998).
Analysing the Danish data we found arestricted number of cases where high degree ofsalience did not correspond to high degree oftopical ity, as it is the case in example (1).
(1)A: hvem...hvem arbejdede [din mor]imed?
(with whom... whom did [your mother]iwork)B: [Hun]iarbejdede med [vores nabo]k([She]iworked with [our neighbour]k)[Hun]kvar enke ... havde tre s?nner [bysoc]([She]kwas a widow... had three sons) In (1)the antecedent of the second occurrence of thepronoun hun (she) is the object vores nabo (ourneighbour) which provides the information re-quested in the preceding question.
This nominalis assigned lower prominence than the subjectpronoun hun (she) in most salience models.The only salience model which departs fromthe givenness2 assumption has been proposedby Hajic?ova?
et al (1990).
Hajic?ova?
et al, infact, assign the highest degree of salience to DEsin the focal part of an utterance in informationstructure terms (Sgall et al, 1986).
These enti-ties often represent new information.
Hajic?ova?et al?s approach is original and can account forthe data in (1), but it is problematic from anapplied point of view.
In the first place it isdifficult to determine the information structureof all utterances.
Secondly, focal candidate an-tecedents are ranked highest in Hajic?ova?
et al?smodel, but they still compete with given can-didate antecedents in their system.
Finally thedata does not confirm that all entities in the fo-cal part of an utterance have the highest degreeof accessibility.We agree with Hajic?ova?
?s insight, but in or-der to operationalise the influence of focality ina reliable way propose the following.
Accessi-bility by default is connected with givenness asassumed in most algorithms.
However, whenspeakers explicitly change the degree of accessi-bility of entities in discourse by marking themas salient with information structure related de-vices, these entities get the highest degree ofsalience and are proposed as the preferred an-tecedents of anaphors.
In cases of explicit focusmarking the shift of focus of attention is as co-herent as continuing speaking about the sameentities, because it is preannounced to the ad-dressee.
On the basis of the data we proposea list of identifiable constructions in which ex-plicit focus marking occurs.3 Examples fromthe list are the following:a: Entities referred to by NPs which in Danishare focally marked structurally (clefts, existen-tial and topicalised constructions).b: Entities referred to by NPs that follow fo-cusing adverbs.c: Entities focally marked by the prosody (ifthis information is available) and/or entitiesproviding information requested in questions, asin (1).2Giveness subsumes here concepts such as topicalityand familiarity.3Many of these constructions are also studied in theInformation Structure and in some anaphora resolutionliterature, e.g.
(Sidner, 1983).Givenness preference in Danish can be mod-elled by the hierarchy of verbal complements.In addition to salience preferences we foundthat parallelism can account for numerous usesof Danish anaphors.4 Inspired by the work of(Kameyama, 1996) we have defined a prefer-ence interaction model to be used in resolution.Our model is given in figure 1.5 The interac-Parallel.
?
Focality ?
Pronom.
chain?
GivennessFigure 1: Interaction of preferencestion model states that givenness preferences areoverridden by focality preference, when in con-flict, and that they all are overridden by paral-lelism.dar also accounts for reference differences be-tween Danish demonstrative and personal pro-nouns.
Weak (cliticised and unstressed) pro-nouns usually refer to the most salient entity inthe utterance.
Strong (stressed and demonstra-tive) pronouns emphasise or put in contrast theentities they refer to and/or indicate that theirantecedents are not the most expected ones.6Demonstratives preferentially refer to abstractentities, while personal pronouns preferentiallyrefer to individual entities in ambiguous con-texts.
All these differences are also accountedfor in the literature on anaphora.
However wealso found more language-specific peculiaritiesin our data.
Two examples of these pecular-ities are the following.
The Danish demon-stratives denne/dette/disse (this common gen-der/this neuter gender/these) never corefer witha subject antecedent intrasententially.
In thefew cases where they have a subject antecedentin a preceding clause, there are no other an-tecedent competitors.
The abstract anaphordette, furthermore, is often used to refer to thelast mentioned situation in the previous sen-tence, often expressed in a subordinated clause,and not to the whole sentence or to an abstractanaphor in the preceding sentence.
The partic-4According to parallelism in adjacent utterances withparallel grammatical complements, the preferred an-tecedent of an anaphor in the second utterance is thelinguistic expression in the first utterance with the samegrammatical function.5Commonsense preferences which override all theother preferences are not implemented.6The most frequent Danish third person singular gen-der pronoun det can both be a personal pronoun (cor-responding to it) and a demonstrative pronoun (corre-sponding to this/that).
In the latter case it is alwaysstressed.ular phenomena are also accounted for in dar.Approx.
half of the APA occurrences in ourdialogues refer to entities evoked by larger dis-course segments (more turn takings).
Thus wefollow Eckert and Strube?s approach of mark-ing the structure of dialogues and searching forAPA antecedents in the right frontier of the dis-course tree (Webber, 1991).
dar presupposesdifferent discourse structures for texts and dia-logues.
dar follows the es00 and phora strat-egy of discriminating between IPAs and APAsby rules looking at the semantic constraints onthe predication contexts in which the anaphorsoccur.
dar relies on more discriminating rulesthan es00, which were defined on the basis oflarge amounts of data and of the encodings of alarge computational lexicon.dar uses language-specific rules to accountfor Danish APAs.
These occur in much morecontexts than in English where elliptical con-structions or other anaphors such as too and soare used.
Examples of Danish-specific uses ofabstract anaphors are given in (2)-(3).
(2) Han var sulten.
Det var jeg ikke.
[pid](lit.
He was hungry.
That was I not)(My friends were hungry.
I wasn?t.
)(3) Han kunne sv?mme, men det kunne hunikke(lit.
He could swim, but it could she not)(He could swim, but she couldn?t)A language-specific rule recognising APAs isthe following: constructions with modal verbsand an object, such as x skal man (lit.
x shallone) (one shall), x vil man (lit.
x will one) (onewill).3 The DAR Algorithm3.1 Search Space and DE listsdar presupposes the discourse structure de-scribed by Grosz and Sidner (1986).
The min-imal discourse unit is the utterance U .
Para-graphs correspond to discourse segments intexts.
In dialogues discourse segments weremanually marked (se section 4).
The dialogueswere structured with Synchronising Units (SU)according to the definitions in ES00.The immediate antecedent search space of apronoun x in utterance Unis the previous utter-ance, Un?1.
If Unis the first component in SUmin dialogues the immediate search space for x isSUm?1.
dar assumes two antecedent domainsdepending on whether the pronoun has or hasnot been recognised as an IPA.
The antecedentdomain for IPAs is first Un?1and then the pre-ceding utterances in the right frontier of the dis-course tree searched for in recency order.7 Theantecedent domain for APAs or anaphors whichcan both be IPAs and APAs is Un?1.dar operates on two lists of DEs, the Ilistand the Alist.
The Ilist contains the NPs re-ferred to in Un?1ranked according to their de-gree of salience and enriched with informationon gender, number, animacy and other sim-ple semantic types necessary to implement se-lectional restrictions.
In the Ilist informationabout the grammatical role of nominals is pro-vided and strongly focally marked elements areindicated.
The leftmost element in the Ilist isthe most salient one.
Givenness and focalitypreferences are accounted for in the Ilist, as il-lustrated in figure 2.
Focally marked entitiesare put in front of the list while the remainingDEs are ordered according to verbal comple-ment order.
Inside verbal complements nomi-nals are ordered according to their occurrenceorder as illustrated in the second row of the fig-ure.
The abstract entities which are referred toby an APA in Un?1or SUm?1are encoded inthe Alist.
They are removed from the list af-ter a new utterance (SU in dialogues) has beenprocessed if they have not been mentioned in it.The context ranking for abstract entities is thatproposed by Eckert and Strube (2000).3.2 The Algorithm and Its Functionsdar consists of two different functions Re-solveDet and ResolveIpa.
The former is ap-plied if the actual pronoun x is third personsingular neuter, while the latter is applied in allthe remaining cases:if x is singular & neuterthen go to ResolveDet(x)else go to ResolveIpa(x)The main steps of ResolveIpa are given infigure 3.
The ResolveIpa approach of indi-cating possible reference ambiguities resemblesthat proposed by Kameyama (1996).
The mainstructure of the function ResolveDet is in-spired by es00.
ResolveDet tests the pro-noun x using the IPA and APA discriminatingrules discussed in section 2.
ResolveDet issimplified in figure 4.
ResolveIpa-neu is likeResolveIpa except that it returns if no NP an-tecedents are found in Un?1(case A) so thatResolveApa can be applied.
ResolveApa7The search space in es00 is the preceding utterancefor all pronouns.distinguishes between types of pronoun.
If xis weak, the preferred antecedent is searchedfor among the elements indicated in the con-text ranking, unless it is the object of the verbg?re (do), modals, have (have) or the abstractsubject in copula constructions.
In these casesthe pronoun is resolved to the VP of the ele-ment in the A-list or in the context ranking.If x is strong ResolveApa attempts to resolveor classify it as vague depending on the typeof pronoun.
This part of the algorithm is spe-cific to Danish and accounts for the fact thatdifferent strong pronouns preferentially refer todifferent abstract entities in the data.
ResolvedAPAs are inserted into the Alist.
In case of fail-ure ResolveApa returns so that ResolveIpa-neu can be applied.
If both functions fail, thepronoun is classified as vague.3.3 Some ExamplesIn the following we look at the resolution of ex-ample (1) from section 2.
The simplified Ilistsand Alists after each utterance has been pro-cessed are given in figure 5.
(1) contains threeSUs.
U2is an I/A thus it belongs to two syn-chronising units (SU1and SU2).
The Ilist afterU1has been processed, contains one element,din mor (your mother).
In U2the personalpronoun hun (she) occurs, thus ResolveIpa isapplied.
It resolves hun to the compatible NPin the Ilist, din mor.
After U2has been pro-cessed the Ilist contains two elements in thisorder: the focal marked entity vores nabo (ourneighbour) and the pronoun hun (= din mor).ResolveIpa resolves the occurrence of the pro-noun hun (she) in U3to the most salient can-didate NP in the Ilist, vores nabo.
Here fo-cal preference overrides pronominal chain pref-erence.
Example (4) contains the APA det.SU1: U1(I) U2(I/A):U1: hvem...hvem arbejdede din mor med?
(with whom... whom did your mother work)Ilist: [din mor]Alist:[]?????????????????
?SU2: U2(I/A)U2: Hun arbejdede med vores nabo(She worked with our neighbour)Ilist: [vores nabo,hun=din mor]Alist: []?????????????????
?SU3: U3(I)U3: Hun var enke ... havde tre s?nner(She was a widow... had three sons)Ilist: [hun=vores nabo,tre s?nner]Alist: []Figure 5: Ilists and Alists for example (1)(4): Du har sv?rt ved at se musemark?ren p?ask?rmen.
Hvordan klarer du det?
[edb](You have difficulties seing the mouse-cursorFOCAL MARKED > SUBJECT > OBJECT/PrepOBJECT > OBJECT 2 > OTHER COMPLS > ADJUNCTS????????????????????????????????????????????????-NCOMPL1>precNCOMPL2>prec.
.
.>precNCOMPLnFigure 2: Order of DEs in the Ilistantecedent in Ilistfor Un?1or Sm?1?no antecedent 1 anteced.
more anteced.look in prec.Ilists apply preferences(1) parallelism?ant.
found ant.
not found return it yes noreturn it x =inferable return y = return y =parallel leftmostcandidate and cand.
in Ilistcandid.
list and c. listx is weak?yes noreturn y return secondand candidate andlist ambig.
list ambig.Figure 3: ResolveIpa(common-gend) on the screen (common-gend).How do you manage it/this (neuter gender))?The simplified Ilists and Alists after the twoutterances in (4) have been processed are pre-sented in figure 6.
After U1has been pro-U1: Du har sv?rt ved at se musemark?ren p?a sk?rmen.Ilist: [musemark?ren, sk?rmen]Alist:[]?????????????????????
?U2: Hvordan klarer du det?Ilist:[]Alist:[det=U1]Figure 6: Ilists and Alists for example (4)cessed there are two common gender singularNPs in the Ilist, musemark?ren (the mousecursor) and sk?rmen (the screen).
In U2thesingular neuter gender pronoun det (it) occurs,thus ResolveDet is applied.
The pronounis neither IPA nor APA according to the dis-criminating rules.
ResolveDet attempts tofind an individual antecedent of the weak pro-noun, applying the function ResolveIpa-neu.ResolveIpa-neu fails because the two DEs inthe Ilist do not agree with the pronoun.
Thenthe function ResolveApa resolves x looking atthe context ranking.
Being the Alist empty, U1,is proposed as antecedent.
The resolved APAis added to the Alist.4 Tests and EvaluationWe have manually tested dar on randomly cho-sen texts and dialogues from our collections.The performance of dar on dialogues has beencompared with that of es00.
The functionfor resolving IPAs (ResolveIpa) has similarlybeen tested on texts, where APAs were ex-cluded.
We have compared the obtained re-sults with those obtained by testing bfp (Bren-nan et al, 1987) and str98 (Strube, 1998).In all tests the intrasentential anaphors havebeen manually resolved and expletive and cat-aphoric uses of pronouns have been marked andexcluded from the test.
Dialogue act units weremarked and classified by three annotators fol-lowing (Eckert and Strube, 2000).
The relia-bility for the two annotation tasks (?-statistics(Carletta, 1996)) was of 0.94 and 0.90 respec-tively.
Pronominal anaphors were marked, clas-sified and resolved by two annotators.
The ?-statistics for the pronoun classification was 0.86.In few cases (one in the texts and two in the dia-logues) where the annotators did not agree uponresolution, the pronouns were marked as am-biguous and were excluded from the test.
Theresults obtained for bfp and str98 are given intable 1, while the results of dar?s ResolveIpaare given in table 2.
In the tables CR stands for?correctly resolved?, HR stands for ?resolvedby humans?, RA stands for ?resolved over all?,P stands for precision and R stands for recall.Because dar both classifies and resolves anaph-ors, both precision and recall (respect to hu-man resolution) are given in table 2.
The re-sults indicate that ResolveIpa performs sig-nificantly better than bfp and str98 on thetype of x?IPA APA IPA/APA?ResolveIPA-new ResolveAPA x weak?x weak?
yes noyes no ResolveIpa-new ResolveApalook in Alist x = det x = dette x = det herresolve look in Alist look in Alist markas es00 as es00 prefer subclause as vagueFigure 4: ResolveDetDanish texts.
The better performance of darwas due to the account of focal and parallelismpreferences, of the different reference mecha-nisms of personal and demonstrative pronounsand to the enlarged resolution scope.
Further-more dar recognises some generic pronouns andinferable pronouns and excludes them from res-olution, but often fails to recognise antecedent-less and inferable plural pronouns, because itfinds a plural nominal in the preceding discourseand proposes it as antecedent.
The lack of com-monsense knowledge explains many incorrectlyresolved anaphors.
The results of the test ofalgorithm CR HR Pbfp 513 645 79.53str98 524 645 81.24Table 1: Results of bfp and str98 on textsCR RA HR P R575 651 645 88.33 89.14Table 2: Results of ResolveIpa on textsthe dar algorithm on written texts are in ta-ble 3.
These results are good compared with theresults of the function ResolveIpa (table 2).The discriminating rules identify correctly IPAsand APAs in the large majority of the cases.Recognition failure often involves pronouns incontexts which are not covered by the discrim-inating rules.
In particular dar fails to resolvesingular neuter gender pronouns with distantantecedents and to identify vague anaphors, be-cause it always ?finds?
an antecedent in the con-text ranking.
Correct resolution in these casesrequires a deep analysis of the context.
Theresults of applying dar and es00 on Danish di-alogues are reported in table 4.8 The results ofthe tests indicate that dar resolves IPAs sig-nificantly better than es00 (which uses str98).8We extended es00 with the Danish-specific identifi-cation rules before applying it.resolution IPACR RA HR P R560 651 645 86.02 86.82resolution APACR RA HR P R68 87 77 78.16 88.31Table 3: Results of dar on textsdar correctly resolves more Danish demonstra-tive pronouns than es00, because it accountsfor language-specific particularities.
In general,however, the resolution results for APAs aresimilar to those obtained for es00.
This is notsurprising, because dar uses the same resolu-tion strategy on these pronouns.
dar performsbetter on texts than on dialogues.
This reflectsthe more complex nature of dialogues.
The re-sults indicate that the IPA/APA discriminat-ing rules also work well on dialogues.
The casesof resolution failure were the same as for thetexts.
As an experiment we applied dar on theresolution IPAAlgorithm CR RA HR P RES00 258 411 414 62.77 62.31DAR 289 386 414 74.87 68.81resolution APAAlgorithm CR RA HR P RES00 179 286 269 62.59 66.54DAR 199 277 269 71.84 73.98Table 4: Results of es00 and dar on dialoguesdialogues without relying on the predefined di-alogue structure.
In this test the recognition ofIPAs and APAs was still good, however the suc-cess rate for IPAs was of 60.1 % and for APAswas of only 39.3%.
Many errors were due tothe fact that antecedents were searched for inthe preceding discourse in linear order and thatungrounded utterances were included in the dis-course model.5 Concluding RemarksIn this paper we presented dar, an algorithmfor resolving IPAs and APAs in Danish textsand dialogues.
In dar differences between thereferential characteristics of Danish weak andstrong pronouns are accounted for and a novelstrategy for resolving individual anaphors isproposed.
This strategy combines givennesswith focality preferences to model salience andalso accounts for parallelism preferences.
darperforms significantly better on IPAs than al-gorithms which only rely on givenness-basedsalience models.dar extends the es00 strategy of classify-ing and resolving (some types of) APAs.
Thetests of dar indicate that the es00?s approachof recognising APAs is also promising for textsand other languages than English.dar has not been compared with phorawhich is the only abstract anaphora algorithmimplemented.
We find the algorithm very inter-esting because it addresses many of the samephenomena, but with different strategies.
Itwould be useful to combine some of these strate-gies with the approaches proposed in dar andes00 to improve the still problematic resolutionof abstract anaphors.ReferencesS.
F. Brennan, M. W. Friedman, and C. J. Pol-lard.
1987.
A Centering Approach to Pro-nouns.
In Proceedings of the ACL?87, pages155?162, CA.D.
Byron and J. Allen.
1998.
Resolving demon-strative pronouns in the trains93 corpus.
InProceedings of DAARC 2, pages 68?81.D.
K. Byron.
2002.
Resolving Pronominal Ref-erence to Abstract Entities.
In Proceedings ofthe ACL 2002.J.
Carletta.
1996.
Assessing agreement on clas-sification tasks.
The kappa statistic.
In Com-putational Linguistics, 22(2):249?254.D.
Duncker and J. Hermann.
1996.
Patien-tord og l?geord - s?rord eller f?llesord?M?anedsskrift for Praktisk L?gegerning, pages1019?1030.M.
Eckert and M. Strube.
2000.
Dialogue acts,synchronising units and anaphora resolution.Journal of Semantics, 17:51?89.F.
Gregersen and I. L. Pedersen, editors.
1991.The Copenhagen study in urban sociolinguis-tics.
Reitzel.B.
J. Grosz and C. L. Sidner.
1986.
Attention,Intentions, and the Structure of Discourse.Computational Linguistics, 12(3):175?284.B.
Grosz, A. K. Joshi, and S. Weinstein.
1995.Centering:A Framework for Modeling the Lo-cal Coherence of Discourse.
ComputationalLinguistics, 21(2):203?225.J.
K. Gundel, N. Hedberg, and R. Zacharski.1993.
Cognitive status and the form of re-ferring expressions in discourse.
Language,69(2):274?307.E.
Hajic?ova?, P.
Kubon?, and V. Kubon?.
1990.Hierarchy of Salience and Discourse Analy-sis and Production.
In H. Karlgren, editor,Proceedings of COLING?90, volume III, pages144?148, Helsinki.K.
A. Jensen.
1989.
Projekt invandrerdansk.Technical report, Copenhagen University.M.
Kameyama.
1996.
Indefeasible Semanticsand Defeasible Pragmatics.
In M. Kanazawa,C.
Pin?on, and H. de Stwart, editors, Quanti-fiers, Deduction and Context, pages 111?138.CSLI, Stanford, CA.C.
Navarretta.
2002.
Combining Informa-tion Structure and Centering-based Mod-els of Salience for Resolving Intersenten-tial Pronominal Anaphora.
In A. Branco,T.
McEnery, and R.Mitkov, editors, Pro-ceedings of the 4th DAARC, pages 135?140.Edic?oes Colibri.C.
Navarretta.
2004. .
In Proceedings of Refer-ence Resolution and Its Applications Work-shop at ACL 2004, Barcelona, Spain.E.
F. Prince.
1981.
Toward a taxonomy ofgiven-new information.
In P. Cole, editor,Radical Pragmatics, Academic Press, pages223?255.C.
Sidner.
1983.
Focusing in the Comprehen-sion of Definite Anaphora.
In M. Brady andR.
Berwick, editors, Computational Models ofDiscourse, MIT Press, pages 267?330.P.
Sgall, E.
Hajic?ova?, and J. Panevova?.
1986.The Meaning of the Sentence in its Semanticand Pragmatic Aspects.
Reidel, Dordrecht.M.
Strube.
1998.
Never Look Back: An Al-ternative to Centering.
In Proceedings ofCOLING-ACL?98, II, pages 1251?1257.M.
Strube and C. Mu?ller.
2003.
A ma-chine learning approach to pronoun resolu-tion in spoken dialogue.
In Proceedings of theACL?03, pages 168?175.B.
L. Webber.
1991.
Structure and Osten-sion in the Interpretation of Discourse Deixis.Natural Language and Cognitive Processes,6(2):107?135, January.
