Integrating Cross-Lingually Relevant News Articles andMonolingual Web Documents in Bilingual Lexicon AcquisitionTakehito Utsuro?
and Kohei Hino?
and Mitsuhiro Kida?Seiichi Nakagawa?
and Satoshi Sato?
?Graduate School of Informatics, Kyoto University, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto, 606-8501, Japan?Department of Information and Computer Sciences, Toyohashi University of TechnologyTenpaku-cho, Toyohashi, 441?8580, JapanAbstractIn the framework of bilingual lexicon acquisitionfrom cross-lingually relevant news articles on theWeb, it is relatively harder to reliably estimate bilin-gual term correspondences for low frequency terms.Considering such a situation, this paper proposes tocomplementarily use much larger monolingual Webdocuments collected by search engines, as a resourcefor reliably re-estimating bilingual term correspon-dences.
We experimentally show that, using a suf-ficient number of monolingual Web documents, itis quite possible to have reliable estimate of bilin-gual term correspondences for those low frequencyterms.1 IntroductionTranslation knowledge acquisition from paral-lel/comparative corpora is one of the most im-portant research topics of corpus-based MT.This is because it is necessary for an MT sys-tem to (semi-)automatically increase its trans-lation knowledge in order for it to be used inthe real world situation.
One limitation ofthe corpus-based translation knowledge acquisi-tion approach is that the techniques of transla-tion knowledge acquisition heavily rely on avail-ability of parallel/comparative corpora.
How-ever, the sizes as well as the domain of existingparallel/comparative corpora are limited, whileit is very expensive to manually collect paral-lel/comparative corpora.
Therefore, it is quiteimportant to overcome this resource scarcitybottleneck in corpus-based translation knowl-edge acquisition research.In order to solve this problem, we proposedan approach of taking bilingual news articleson Web news sites as a source for translationknowledge acquisition (Utsuro et al, 2003).
Inthe case of Web news sites in Japan, Japaneseas well as English news articles are updated ev-eryday.
Although most of those bilingual newsarticles are not parallel even if they are fromthe same site, certain portion of those bilingualnews articles share their contents or at least re-port quite relevant topics.
This characteristicis quite important for the purpose of transla-tion knowledge acquisition.
Utsuro et al (2003)showed that it is possible to acquire translationknowledge of domain specific named entities,event expressions, and collocational expressionsfrom the collection of bilingual news articles onWeb news sites.Based on the results of our previous study,this paper further examines the correlation ofterm frequency and the reliability of bilingualterm correspondences estimated from bilingualnews articles.
We show that, for high frequencyterms, it is relatively easier to reliably estimatebilingual term correspondences.
However, forlow frequency terms, it is relatively harder to re-liably estimate bilingual term correspondences.Low frequency problem of this type often hap-pens when a sufficient number of bilingual newsarticles are not available at hand.Considering such a situation, this paper thenproposes to complementarily use much largermonolingual Web documents collected by searchengines, as a resource for reliably re-estimatingbilingual term correspondences.
Those col-lected monolingual Web documents are re-garded as comparable corpora.
Here, a stan-dard technique of estimating bilingual term cor-respondences from comparable corpora is em-ployed.
In the evaluation, we show that, usinga sufficient number of monolingual Web docu-ments, it is relatively easier to have reliable esti-mate of bilingual term correspondences.
As oneof the most remarkable experimental evalua-tion results, we further show that, for the termswhich appear infrequently in news articles, theaccuracy of re-estimating bilingual term corre-spondences does actually improve.Figure 1: Translation Knowledge Acquisitionfrom Web News Sites: Overview2 Estimating Bilingual TermCorrespondences fromCross-Lingually Relevant NewsArticles2.1 OverviewFigure 1 illustrates the overview of our frame-work of translation knowledge acquisition fromWeb news sites.
First, pairs of Japanese andEnglish news articles which report identical con-tents or at least closely related contents are re-trieved.
In this cross-lingual retrieval process,translation knowledge such as a bilingual dic-tionary and an MT software is used for mea-suring similarity of Japanese and English arti-cles across languages.
Then, by applying pre-viously studied techniques of translation knowl-edge acquisition from parallel/comparative cor-pora, translation knowledge such as bilingualterm correspondences are acquired.2.2 Cross-Language Retrieval of Rel-evant News ArticlesThis section gives the overview of our frame-work of cross-language retrieval of relevant newsarticles from Web news sites (Utsuro et al,2003).
First, from Web news sites, bothJapanese and English news articles within cer-tain range of dates are retrieved.
Let dJ anddE denote one of the retrieved Japanese andEnglish articles, respectively.
Then, each En-glish article dE is translated into a Japanesedocument dMTJ by some commercial MT soft-ware1.
Each Japanese article dJ as well as theJapanese translation dMTJ of each English ar-ticle are next segmented into word sequences,and word frequency vectors v(dJ ) and v(dMTJ )are generated.
Then, cosine similarities betweenv(dJ ) and v(dMTJ ) are calculated2 and pairs ofarticles dJ and dE which satisfy certain criterionare considered as candidates for cross-linguallyrelevant article pairs.As we describe in section 4.1, on Web newssites in Japan, the number of articles up-dated per day is far greater (about 4 times)in Japanese than in English.
Thus, it ismuch easier to find cross-lingually relevant ar-ticles for each English query article than foreach Japanese query article.
Considering thisfact, we estimate bilingual term correspon-dences from the results of cross-lingually re-trieving relevant Japanese articles with Englishquery articles.
For each English query articlediE and its Japanese translation dMTiJ , the setDiJ of Japanese articles that are within certainrange of dates and are with cosine similaritieshigher than or equal to a certain lower boundLd is constructed:DiJ ={dJ | cos(v(dMTiJ ), v(dJ )) ?
Ld}(1)2.3 Estimating Bilingual Term Cor-respondences with Pseudo-Parallel CorpusThis section describes the technique we apply tothe task of estimating bilingual term correspon-dences from cross-lingually relevant news texts.Here, we regard cross-lingually relevant newstexts as a pseudo-parallel corpus, to which stan-dard techniques of estimating bilingual termcorrespondences from parallel corpora can beapplied3.1In this query translation process, we compared anMT software with a bilingual lexicon.
CLIR with querytranslation by an MT software performed much betterthan that by a bilingual lexicon.
In the case of newsarticles on Web news sites, it is relatively easier to findarticles in the other language which report closely relatedcontents, with just a few days difference of report dates.In such a case, exact query translation by an MT soft-ware is suitable, because exact translation is expected toeasily match the closely related articles in the other lan-guage.
As we mention in section 3.3, this is opposite tothe situation of monolingual Web documents, where it ismuch less expected to find closely related documents inthe other language.2It is also quite possible to employ weights other thanword frequencies such as tf ?idf and similarity measuresother than cosine measure such as dice or Jaccard coef-ficients.3We also applied another technique based on con-textual vector similarities (Utsuro et al, 2003), whichFirst, we concatenate constituent Japanesearticles of DiJ into one article D?iJ , and regardthe article pair diE and D?iJ as a pseudo-parallelsentence pair.
Next, we collect such pseudo-parallel sentence pairs and construct a pseudo-parallel corpus PPCEJ of English and Japanesearticles:PPCEJ ={?diE , D?iJ ?
| DiJ = ?
}Then, we apply standard techniques of es-timating bilingual term correspondences fromparallel corpora (Matsumoto and Utsuro, 2000)to this pseudo-parallel corpus PPCEJ .
First,from a pseudo-parallel sentence pair diE and D?iJ ,we extract monolingual (possibly compound4)term pair tE and tJ :r?tE , tJ ?
s.t.
?diE?dJ , tE in diE , tJ in dJ , (2)cos(v(dMTiJ ), v(dJ )) ?
LdThen, based on the contingency table of co-occurrence document frequencies of tE and tJbelow, we estimate bilingual term correspon-dences according to the statistical measuressuch as the mutual information, the ?2 statistic,the dice coefficient, and the log-likelihood ratio.tJ ?tJtE df(tE , tJ ) = a df(tE ,?tJ ) = b?tE df(?tE , tJ) = c df(?tE ,?tJ) = dWe compare the performance of those fourmeasures, where the ?2 statistic and the log-likelihood ratio perform best, the dice coefficientthe second best, and the mutual information theworst.
In section 4.3, we show results with the?2 statistic as the bilingual term correspondencecorrEJ(tE , tJ):?2(tE , tJ) =(ad ?
bc)2(a + b)(a + c)(b + d)(c + d)3 Re-estimating Bilingual TermCorrespondences usingMonolingual Web Documents3.1 OverviewThis section illustrates the overview of the pro-cess of re-estimating bilingual term correspon-dences using monolingual Web documents col-lected by search engines.
Figure 2 gives itsrough idea.has been well studied in the context of bilingual lexiconacquisition from comparable corpora.
In this method,we regard cross-lingually relevant texts as a compara-ble corpus, where bilingual term correspondences are es-timated in terms of contextual similarities across lan-guages.
This technique is less effective than the one wedescribe here (Utsuro et al, 2003).4In the evaluation of this paper, we restrict Englishand Japanese terms tEand tJto be up to five wordslong.Figure 2: Re-estimating Bilingual Term Corre-spondences using Monolingual Web Documents:OverviewSuppose that we have an English term, andthat the problem to solve here is to find itsJapanese translation.
As we described in theprevious section and in Figure 1, with a cross-lingually relevant Japanese and English newsarticles database, we can have a certain num-ber of Japanese translation candidates for thetarget English term.
Here, for high frequencyterms, it is relatively easier to have reliableranking of those Japanese translation candi-dates.
However, for low frequency terms, hav-ing reliable ranking of those Japanese transla-tion candidates is difficult.
Especially, low fre-quency problem of this type often happens whenwe do not have large enough language resources(in this case, cross-lingually relevant news arti-cles).Considering such a situation, re-estimation ofbilingual term correspondences proceeds as fol-lows, using much larger monolingual Web doc-uments sets that are easily accessible throughsearch engines.
First, English pages whichcontain the target English term are collectedthrough an English search engine.
In the simi-lar way, for each Japanese term in the Japanesetranslation candidates, Japanese pages whichcontain the Japanese term are collected througha Japanese search engine.
Then, texts con-tained in those English and Japanese pages areextracted and are regarded as comparable cor-pora.
Here, a standard technique of estimat-ing bilingual term correspondences from com-parable corpora (e.g., Fung and Yee (1998) andRapp (1999)) is employed.
Contextual sim-ilarity between the target English term andthe Japanese translation candidate is measuredacross languages, and all the Japanese transla-tion candidates are re-ranked according to thecontextual similarities.3.2 Filtering by Hits of Search En-ginesBefore re-estimating bilingual term correspon-dences using monolingual Web documents, weassume there exists certain correlation betweenhits of the English term tE and the Japaneseterm tJ returned by search engines.
Dependingon the hits h(tE) of tE , we restrict the hits h(tJ )of tJ to be within the range of a lower boundhL and an upper bound hU :hL < h(tJ ) ?
hUAs search engines, we used AltaVista(http://www.
altavista.com/ for En-glish, and goo (http://www.goo.ne.jp/) forJapanese.
With a development data set con-sisting of translation pairs of an English termand a Japanese term, we manually constructedthe following rules for determining the lowerbound hL and the upper bound hU :1.
0 < h(tE) ?
100hL = 0, hU = 10, 000 ?
h(tE)2.
100 < h(tE) ?
20, 000hL = 0.05 ?
h(tE), hU = 1, 000, 0003.
20, 000 < h(tE)hL = 1, 000, hU = 50 ?
h(tE)In the experimental evaluation of Section 4.4,the initial set of Japanese translation candi-dates consists of 50 terms for each English term,which are then reduced to on the average 24.8terms with this filtering.3.3 Re-estimating Bilingual TermCorrespondences based on Con-textual SimilarityThis section describes how to re-estimate bilin-gual term correspondences using monolingualWeb documents collected by search engines.For an English term tE and a Japanese termtJ , let D(tE) and D(tJ) be the sets of docu-ments returned by search engines with queriestE and tJ , respectively.
Then, for the Englishterm tE, translated contextual vector cvtrJ (tE)is constructed as below: each English sen-tence sE which contains tE is translated intoJapanese sentence strJ , then the term frequencyvectors5 v(strJ ) of Japanese translation strJ are5In the term frequency vectores, compound terms arerestricted to be up to five words long both for Englishand Japanese.Table 1: Statistics of # of Days, Articles, andArticle Sizestotal total average # average# of # of of articles articledays articles per day size (bytes)Eng 935 23064 24.7 3228.9Jap 941 96688 102.8 837.7summed up into the translated contextual vec-tor cvtrJ(tE):cvtrJ (tE) =?
?sEin D(tE) s.t.
tEin sEv(strJ )The contextual vector cv(tJ ) for the Japaneseterm tJ is also constructed by summing up theterm frequency vectors v(sJ) of each Japanesesentence sJ which contains tJ :cv(tJ ) =?
?sJin D(tJ) s.t.
tJin sJv(sJ)In the translation of English sentences intoJapanese, we evaluated an MT software and abilingual lexicon in terms of the performance ofre-estimation of bilingual term correspondences.Unlike the situation of cross-lingually relevantnews articles mentioned in Section 2.2, trans-lation by a bilingual lexicon is more effectivefor monolingual Web documents.
In the case ofmonolingual Web documents, it is much less ex-pected to find closely related documents in theother language.
In such cases, multiple trans-lation rather than exact translation by an MTsoftware is suitable.
In Section 4.4, we showevaluation results with translation by a bilin-gual lexicon6.Finally, bilingual term correspondencecorrEJ(tE , tJ) is estimated in terms of co-sine measure cos(cvtrJ (tE), cv(tJ )) betweencontextual vectors cvtrJ (tE) and cv(tJ ).4 Experimental Evaluation4.1 Japanese-English Relevant NewsArticles on Web News SitesWe collected Japanese and English news articlesfrom a Web news site.
Table 1 shows the totalnumber of collected articles and the range ofdates of those articles represented as the num-ber of days.
Table 1 also shows the number ofarticles updated in one day, and the average ar-ticle size.
The number of Japanese articles up-dated in one day are far greater (about 4 times)than that of English articles.6Eijiro Ver.37, 850,000 entries, http://homepage3.nifty.com/edp/.Table 2: # of Japanese/English Articles Pairs with Similarity Values above Lower BoundsLower Bound Ld of Articles?
Sim w/o 0.3 0.4 0.5Difference of Dates (days) CLIR ?
2# of English Articles 23064 6073 2392 701# of Japanese Articles 96688 12367 3444 882# of English-Japanese Article Pairs ?
16507 3840 918Next, for several lower bounds Ld of thesimilarity between English and Japanese arti-cles, Table 2 shows the numbers of English andJapanese articles as well as article pairs whichsatisfy the similarity lower bound.
Here, thedifference of dates of English and Japanese arti-cles is within two days, with which it is guaran-teed that, if exist, closely related articles in theother language can be discovered (see Utsuro etal.
(2003) for details).
Note that it can happenthat one article has similarity values above thelower bound against more than one articles inthe other language.According to our previous study (Utsuro etal., 2003), cross-lingually relevant news arti-cles are available in the direction of English-to-Japanese retrieval for more than half of theretrieval query English articles.
Furthermore,with the similarity lower bound Ld = 0.3, pre-cision and recall of cross-language retrieval arearound 30% and 60%, respectively.
Therefore,with the similarity lower bound Ld = 0.3, atleast 1,800 (?
6, 073?0.5?0.6) English articleshave relevant Japanese articles in the results ofcross-language retrieval.
Based on this analysis,the next section gives evaluation results withthe similarity lower bound Ld = 0.3.4.2 English Term List for EvaluationFor the evaluation of this paper, we first man-ually select target English terms and theirreference Japanese translation, and examinewhether reference bilingual term correspon-dences can be estimated by the methods pre-sented in Sections 2 and 3.
Target English termsare selected by the following procedure.First, from the whole English articles of Ta-ble 1, any sequence of more than one wordswhose frequency is more than or equal to 10 isenumerated.
This enumeration is easily imple-mented and efficiently computed by employingthe technique of PrefixSpan (Pei et al, 2001).Here, certain portion of those word sequencesare appropriate as compound terms, while therest are some fragments of a compound term,or concatenation of those fragments.
In or-der to automatically select candidates for cor-rect compound terms, we parse those word se-Figure 3: Accuracy of Estimating BilingualTerm Correspondences with News Articlesquences by Charniak parser7, and collect nounphrases which consist of adjectives, nouns, andpresent/past participles.
For each of those wordsequences, the ?2 statistic against Japanesetranslation candidates is calculated, then thoseword sequences are sorted in descending order oftheir ?2 statistic.
Finally, among top 3,000 can-didates for compound terms, 100 English com-pound terms are randomly selected for the eval-uation of this paper.
Selected 100 terms satisfythe following condition: those English terms canbe correctly translated neither by the MT soft-ware used in Section 2.2, nor by the bilinguallexicon used in Section 3.3.4.3 Estimating Bilingual Term Cor-respondences with News ArticlesFor the 100 English terms selected in the pre-vious section, Japanese translation candidateswhich satisfy the condition of the formula (2) inSection 2.3 are collected, and are ranked accord-ing to the ?2 statistic.
Figure 3 plots the rateof reference Japanese translation being withintop n candidates.
In the figure, the plot labeledas ?full?
is the result with the whole articles inTable 1.
In this case, the accuracy of the topranked Japanese translation candidate is about40%, and the rate of reference Japanese trans-lation within top five candidates is about 75%.7http://www.cs.brown.edu/people/ec/Table 3: Statistics of Average Document Frequencies and Number of DaysDocument Frequencies of target English Term # of DaysData Set df(tE) df(tE, tJ) Eng Japfreq=10, 13.6 days 14.9 9.1 13.6 21.9freq=10, 20 days 14.9 9.1 21.0 78.7freq=10, 200 days 14.9 9.1 200 581freq=70, 600 days 37.4 24.9 600 872full 53.9 35.6 935 941On the other hand, other plots labeled as?Freq=x, y days?
are the results when the num-ber of the news articles is reduced, which aresimulations for estimating bilingual term cor-respondences for low frequency terms.
Here,the label ?Freq=x, y days?
indicates that newsarticles used for ?2 statistic estimation is re-stricted to certain portion of the whole newsarticles so that the following condition be satis-fied: i) co-occurrence document frequency of atarget English term and its reference Japanesetranslation is fixed to be x,8 ii) the number ofdays be greater than or equal to y.
For eachnews articles data set, Table 3 shows documentfrequencies df(tE) of a target English term tE ,co-occurrence document frequencies df(tE, tJ )of tE and its reference Japanese translation tJ ,and the numbers of days for English as well asJapanese articles.
Those numbers are all aver-aged over the 100 English terms.
The number ofdays for Japanese articles could be at maximumfive times larger than that for English articles,because relevant Japanese articles are retrievedagainst a query English article from the dates ofdifferences within two days (details are in Sec-tions 2.2 and 4.1).As can be seen from the plots of Figure 3,the smaller the news articles data set, the lowerthe plot is.
Especially, in the case of the small-est news articles data set, it is clear that re-liable ranking of Japanese translation candi-dates is difficult.
This is because it is not easyto discriminate the reference Japanese transla-tion and the other candidates with statistics ob-tained from such a small news articles data set.4.4 Re-estimating Bilingual TermCorrespondences with Monolin-gual Web DocumentsFor the 100 target English terms evaluated inthe previous section, this section describes theresult of applying the technique presented inSection 3.3, i.e., re-estimating bilingual term8When the co-occurrence document frequency of tEand tJin the whole news articles is less than x, all theco-occurring dates are included.Figure 4: Accuracy of Re-estimating BilingualTerm Correspondences with Monolingual WebDocumentscorrespondences with monolingual Web docu-ments.
For each of the 100 target Englishterms, bilingual term correspondences are re-estimated against candidates of Japanese trans-lation ranked within top 50 according to the?2 statistic.
Here, as a simulation for termsthat are infrequent in news articles, 50 can-didate terms for Japanese translation are col-lected from the smallest data set labeled as?Freq=10, 13.6 days?.
As mentioned in Sec-tion 3.2, those 50 candidates are reduced to onthe average 24.8 terms with the filtering by hitsof search engines.
For each of an English termtE and a Japanese term tJ , 100 monolingualdocuments are collected by search engines9 10.Figure 4 compares the plots of re-estimationwith monolingual Web documents and estima-tion by news articles (data set ?Freq=10, 13.69In the result of our preliminary evaluation, accuracyof re-estimating bilingual term correspondences did notimprove even if more than 100 documents were used.10Alternatively, as the monolingual documents fromwhich contextual vectors are constructed, we evaluatedeach of the short passages listed in the summary pagesreturned by search engines, instead of the whole docu-ments of the URLs listed in the summary pages.
Thedifference of the performance of bilingual term corre-spondence estimation is little, while the computationalcost can reduced to almost 5%.days?).
It is clear from this result that mono-lingual Web documents contribute to improvingthe accuracy of estimating bilingual term corre-spondences for low frequency terms.One of the major reasons for this improve-ment is that topics of monolingual Web doc-uments collected through search engines aremuch more diverse than those of news articles.Such diverse topics help discriminate correctand incorrect Japanese translation candidates.For example, suppose that the target Englishterm tE is ?special anti-terrorism law?
and itsreference Japanese translation is ???????????.
In the news articles we used for evalua-tion, most articles in which tE or tJ appear have?dispatch of Self-Defense Force for reconstruc-tion of Iraq?
as their topics.
Here, Japanesetranslation candidates other than ???????????
that are highly ranked according tothe ?2 statistic are: e.g., ?????
(dissolutionof the House of Representatives)?
and ????????
(assistance for reconstruction of Iraq)?,which frequently appear in the topic of ?dis-patch of Self-Defense Force for reconstructionof Iraq?.On the other hand, in the case of monolin-gual Web documents collected through searchengines, it can be expected that topics of docu-ments may vary according to the query terms.In the case of the example above, the majortopic is ?dispatch of Self-Defense Force for re-construction of Iraq?
for both of reference termstE and tJ , while major topics for other Japanesetranslation candidates are: ?issues on JapaneseDiet?
for ?????
(dissolution of the Houseof Representatives)?
and ?issues on reconstruc-tion of Iraq, not only in Japan, but all over theworld?
for ????????
(assistance for re-construction of Iraq)?.
Those topics of incor-rect Japanese translation candidates are differ-ent from that of the target English term tE, andtheir contextual vector similarities against thetarget English term tE are relatively low com-pared with the reference Japanese translationtJ .
Consequently, the reference Japanese trans-lation tJ is re-ranked higher compared with theranking based on news articles.5 Related WorksIn large scale experimental evaluation of bilin-gual term correspondence estimation from com-parable corpora, it is difficult to estimate bilin-gual term correspondences against every possi-ble pair of terms due to its computational com-plexity.
Previous works on bilingual term cor-respondence estimation from comparable cor-pora controlled experimental evaluation in var-ious ways in order to reduce this computationalcomplexity.
For example, Rapp (1999) filteredout bilingual term pairs with low monolingualfrequencies (those below 100 times), while Fungand Yee (1998) restricted candidate bilingualterm pairs to be pairs of the most frequent 118unknown words.
Cao and Li (2002) restrictedcandidate bilingual compound term pairs byconsulting a seed bilingual lexicon and requir-ing their constituent words to be translationof each other across languages.
On the otherhand, in the framework of bilingual term corre-spondences estimation of this paper, the compu-tational complexity of enumerating translationcandidates can be easily avoided with the help ofcross-language retrieval of relevant news texts.Furthermore, unlike Cao and Li (2002), bilin-gual term correspondences for compound termsare not restricted to compositional translation.6 ConclusionIn the framework of bilingual lexicon acquisitionfrom cross-lingually relevant news articles onthe Web, it has been relatively harder to reliablyestimate bilingual term correspondences for lowfrequency terms.
This paper proposed to com-plementarily use much larger monolingual Webdocuments collected by search engines, as a re-source for reliably re-estimating bilingual termcorrespondences.
We showed that, for the termswhich appear infrequently in news articles, theaccuracy of re-estimating bilingual term corre-spondences actually improved.ReferencesY.
Cao and H. Li.
2002.
Base noun phrase translationusing Web data and the EM algorithm.
In Proc.
19thCOLING, pages 127?133.P.
Fung and L. Y. Yee.
1998.
An IR approach for trans-lating new words from nonparallel, comparable texts.In Proc.
17th COLING and 36th ACL, pages 414?420.Y.
Matsumoto and T. Utsuro.
2000.
Lexical knowledgeacquisition.
In R. Dale, H. Moisl, and H. Somers,editors, Handbook of Natural Language Processing,chapter 24, pages 563?610.
Marcel Dekker Inc.J.
Pei, J. Han, B. Mortazavi-Asl, and H. Pinto.
2001.Prefixspan: Mining sequential patterns efficiently byprefix-projected pattern growth.
In Proc.
Inter.
Conf.Data Mining, pages 215?224.R.
Rapp.
1999.
Automatic identification of word trans-lations from unrelated English and German corpora.In Proc.
37th ACL, pages 519?526.T.
Utsuro, T. Horiuchi, T. Hamamoto, K. Hino, andT.
Nakayama.
2003.
Effect of cross-language IR inbilingual lexicon acquisition from comparable cor-pora.
In Proc.
10th EACL, pages 355?362.
