Automatic Construction of Nominal Case Frames andits Application to Indirect Anaphora ResolutionRyohei Sasano, Daisuke Kawahara and Sadao KurohashiGraduate School of Information Science and Technology, University of Tokyo{ryohei,kawahara,kuro}@kc.t.u-tokyo.ac.jpAbstractThis paper proposes a method to auto-matically construct Japanese nominal caseframes.
The point of our method is the in-tegrated use of a dictionary and examplephrases from large corpora.
To examine thepractical usefulness of the constructed nom-inal case frames, we also built a system ofindirect anaphora resolution based on thecase frames.
The constructed case frameswere evaluated by hand, and were confirmedto be good quality.
Experimental results ofindirect anaphora resolution also indicatedthe effectiveness of our approach.1 IntroductionWhat is represented in a text has originallya network structure, in which several conceptshave tight relations with each other.
However,because of the linear constraint of texts, mostof them disappear in the normal form of texts.Automatic reproduction of such relations can beregarded as the first step of ?text understand-ing?, and surely benefits NLP applications suchas machine translation, automatic abstraction,and question answering.One of such latent relationship is indirectanaphora, functional anaphora, or bridging ref-erence, such as the following examples.
(1) I bought a ticket.
The price was 20 dollars.
(2) There was a house.
The roof was white.Here, ?the price?
means ?the price of a ticket?and ?the roof?
means ?the roof of a house.
?Most nouns have their indispensable or req-uisite entities: ?price?
is a price of some goodsor service, ?roof?
is a roof of some building,?coach?
is a coach of some sport, and ?virus?is a virus causing some disease.
The relationbetween a noun and its indispensable entity isparallel to that between a verb and its argu-ments or obligatory cases.
In this paper, we callindispensable entities of nouns obligatory cases.Indirect anaphora resolution needs a compre-hensive information or dictionary of obligatorycases of nouns.In case of verbs, syntactic structures such assubject/object/PP in English or case markerssuch as ga, wo, ni in Japanese can be utilizedas a strong clue to distinguish several obliga-tory cases and adjuncts (and adverbs), whichmakes it feasible to construct case frames fromlarge corpora automatically (Briscoe and Car-roll, 1997; Kawahara and Kurohashi, 2002).
(Kawahara and Kurohashi, 2004) then utilizedthe automatically constructed case frames toJapanese zero pronoun resolution.On the other hand, in case of nouns, obliga-tory cases of noun Nh appear, in most cases, inthe single form of noun phrase ?Nh of Nm?
inEnglish, or ?Nm no Nh?
in Japanese.
This sin-gle form can express several obligatory cases,and furthermore optional cases, for example,?rugby no coach?
(obligatory case concerningwhat sport), ?club no coach?
(obligatory caseconcerning which institution), and ?kyonen ?lastyear?
no coach?
(optional case).
Therefore, thekey issue to construct nominal case frames is toanalyze ?Nh of Nm?
or ?Nm no Nh?
phrases todistinguish obligatory case examples and others.Work which addressed indirect anaphora inEnglish texts so far restricts relationships to asmall, relatively well-defined set, mainly part-ofrelation like the above example (2), and utilizedhand-crafted heuristic rules or hand-crafted lex-ical knowledge such as WordNet (Hahn et al,1996; Vieira and Poesio, 2000; Strube andHahn, 1999).
(Poesio et al, 2002) proposeda method of acquiring lexical knowledge from?Nh of Nm?
phrases, but again concentrated onpart-of relation.In case of Japanese text analysis, (Murata etal., 1999) proposed a method of utilizing ?Nmno Nh?
phrases for indirect anaphora resolutionof diverse relationships.
However, they basicallyused all ?Nm no Nh?
phrases from corpora, justexcluding some pre-fixed stop words.
They con-fessed that an accurate analysis of ?Nm no Nh?phrases is necessary for the further improve-ment of indirect anaphora resolution.As a response to these problems and follow-ing the work in (Kurohashi and Sakai, 1999), wepropose a method to construct Japanese nom-inal case frames from large corpora, based onan accurate analysis of ?Nm no Nh?
phrasesusing an ordinary dictionary and a thesaurus.To examine the practical usefulness of the con-structed nominal case frames, we also built asystem of indirect anaphora resolution based onthe case frames.2 Semantic Feature DictionaryFirst of all, we briefly introduce NTT Seman-tic Feature Dictionary employed in this paper.NTT Semantic Feature Dictionary consists of asemantic feature tree, whose 3,000 nodes are se-mantic features, and a nominal dictionary con-taining about 300,000 nouns, each of which isgiven one or more appropriate semantic fea-tures.The main purpose of using this dictionary isto calculate the similarity between two words.Suppose the word x and y have a semantic fea-ture sx and sy, respectively, their depth is dxand dy in the semantic tree, and the depth oftheir lowest (most specific) common node is dc,the similarity between x and y, sim(x, y), is cal-culated as follows:sim(x, y) = (dc ?
2)/(dx + dy).If sx and sy are the same, the similarity is 1.0,the maximum score based on this criteria.We also use this dictionary to specify seman-tic category of words, such as human, time andplace.3 Semantic Analysis of JapaneseNoun Phrases Nm no NhIn many cases, obligatory cases of nouns aredescribed in an ordinary dictionary for humanbeing.
For example, a Japanese dictionary forchildren, Reikai Shougaku Kokugojiten, or RSK(Tajika, 1997), gives the definitions of the wordcoach and virus as follows1:coach a person who teaches technique in somesportvirus a living thing even smaller than bacte-ria which causes infectious disease like in-fluenza1Although our method handles Japanese nounphrases by using Japanese definition sentences, in thispaper we use their English translations for the explana-tion.
In some sense, the essential point of our method islanguage-independent.Based on such an observation, (Kurohashiand Sakai, 1999) proposed a semantic analy-sis method of ?Nm no Nh?, consisting of thetwo modules: dictionary-based analysis (abbre-viated to DBA hereafter) and semantic feature-based analysis (abbreviated to SBA hereafter).This section briefly introduces their method.3.1 Dictionary-based analysisObligatory case information of nouns in an ordi-nary dictionary can be utilized to solve the dif-ficult problem in the semantic analysis of ?Nmno Nh?
phrases.
In other words, we can say theproblem disappears.For example, ?rugby no coach?
can be inter-preted by the definition of coach as follows: thedictionary describes that the noun coach has anobligatory case sport, and the phrase ?rugby nocoach?
specifies that the sport is rugby.
That is,the interpretation of the phrase can be regardedas matching rugby in the phrase to some sportin the coach definition.
?Kaze ?cold?
no virus?is also easily interpreted based on the definitionof virus, linking kaze ?cold?
to infectious disease.Dictionary-based analysis (DBA) tries to finda correspondence between Nm and an obliga-tory case of Nh by utilizing RSK and NTT Se-mantic Feature Dictionary, by the following pro-cess:1.
Look up Nh in RSK and obtain the defini-tion sentences of Nh.2.
For each word w in the definition sentencesother than the genus words, do the follow-ing steps:2.1.
When w is a noun which shows anobligatory case explicitly, like kotog-ara ?thing?, monogoto ?matter?, nanika?something?, and Nm does not have asemantic feature of human or time,give 0.8 to their correspondence2.2.2.
When w is other noun, calculate thesimilarity between Nm and w by us-ing NTT Semantic Feature Dictionary,and give the similarity score to theircorrespondence.3.
Finally, if the best correspondence score is0.75 or more, DBA outputs the best corre-spondence, which can be an obligatory caseof the input; if not, DBA outputs nothing.2For the present, parameters in the algorithm weregiven empirically, not optimized by a learning method.Table 1: Examples of rules for semantic feature-based analysis.1.
Nm:human, Nh:relative ?
<obligatory case(relative)> e.g.
kare ?he?
no oba ?aunt?2.
Nm:human, Nh:human ?
<modification(apposition)> e.g.
gakusei ?student?
no kare ?he?3.
Nm:organization, Nh:human ?
<belonging> e.g.
gakkou ?school?
no seito ?student?4.
Nm:agent, Nh:event ?
<agent> e.g.
watashi ?I?
no chousa ?study?5.
Nm:material, Nh:concrete ?
<modification(material)> e.g.
ki ?wood?
no hako ?box?6.
Nm:time, Nh:?
?
<time> e.g.
aki ?autumn?
no hatake ?field?7.
Nm:color, quantity, or figure, Nh:?
?
<modification> e.g.
gray no seihuku ?uniform?8.
Nm:?, Nh:quantity ?
<obligatory case(attribute)> e.g.
hei ?wall?
no takasa ?height?9.
Nm:?, Nh:position ?
<obligatory case(position)> e.g.
tsukue ?desk?
no migi ?right?10.
Nm:agent, Nh:?
?
<possession> e.g.
watashi ?I?
no kuruma ?car?11.
Nm:place or position, Nh:?
?
<place> e.g.
Kyoto no mise ?store????
meets any noun.In case of the phrase ?rugby no coach?, ?tech-nique?
and ?sport?
in the definition sentencesare checked: the similarity between ?technique?and ?rugby?
is calculated to be 0.21, and thesimilarity between ?sport?
and ?rugby?
is cal-culated to be 1.0.
Therefore, DBA outputs?sport?.3.2 Semantic feature-based analysisSince diverse relations in ?Nm no Nh?
are han-dled by DBA, the remaining relations can bedetected by simple rules checking the semanticfeatures of Nm and/or Nh.Table 1 shows examples of the rules.
For ex-ample, the rule 1 means that if Nm has a seman-tic feature human and Nh relative, <obliga-tory case> relation is assigned to the phrase.The rules 1, 2, 8 and 9 are for certain oblig-atory cases.
We use these rules because theserelations can be analyzed more accurately by us-ing explicit semantic features, rather than basedon a dictionary.3.3 Integration of two analysesUsually, either DBA or SBA outputs some re-lation.
When both DBA and SBA output somerelations, the results are integrated (basically, ifDBA correspondence score is higher than 0.8,DBA result is selected; if not, SBA result is se-lected).
In rare cases, neither analysis outputsany relations, which means analysis failure.4 Automatic Construction ofNominal Case Frames4.1 Collection and analysis of Nm no NhSyntactically unambiguous noun phrases ?Nmno Nh?
are collected from the automatic parseresults of large corpora, and they are analyzedusing the method described in the previous sec-tion.Table 2: Preliminary case frames for hisashi?eaves/visor?.DBA result1.
a roof that stick out above the window ofa house.
[house] hall:2, balcony:1, building:1, ?
?
?
[window] window:2, ceiling:1, counter:1, ?
?
?2.
the fore piece of a cap.
[cap] cap:8, helmet:1, ?
?
?SBA result<place> parking:3, store:3, shop:2, ?
?
?<mod.> concrete:1, metal:1, silver:1, ?
?
?No semantic analysis result<other> part:1, light:1, phone:1, ?
?
?By just collecting the analysis results of eachhead word Nh, we can obtain its preliminarycase frames.
Table 2 shows preliminary caseframes for hisashi ?eaves/visor?.
The upper partof the table shows the results by DBA.
The linestarting with ?[house]?
denotes a group of anal-ysis results corresponding to the word ?house?in the first definition sentence.
For example,?hall no hisashi?
occurs twice in the corpora,and they were analyzed by DBA to correspondto ?house.
?The middle part of the table shows the resultsby SBA.
Noun phrases that have no semanticanalysis result (analysis failure) are bundled andnamed <other>, as shown in the last part of thetable.A case frame should be constructed for eachmeaning (definition) of Nh, and groups start-ing with ?[...]?
or ?<...>?
in Table 2 are possi-ble case slots.
The problem is how to arrangethe analysis results of DBA and SBA and howto distinguish obligatory cases and others.
Thefollowing sections explain how to handle theseproblems.Table 3: Threshold to select obligatory slots.type of case slots threshold of probabilityanalyzed by DBA 0.5% (1/200)<obligatory case> 2.5% (1/40)<belonging> 2.5% (1/40)<possessive> 5% (1/20)<agent> 5% (1/20)<place> 5% (1/20)<other> 10% (1/10)<modification> not used<time> not usedProbability = (# of Nm no Nh) / (# of Nh)4.2 Case slot clusteringOne obligatory case might be separated in pre-liminary case frames, since the definition sen-tence is sometimes too specific or too detailed.For example, in the case of hisashi ?eaves/visor?in Table 2, [house], [window], and <place>have very similar examples that mean buildingor part of building.
Therefore, case slots aremerged if similarity of two case slots is morethan 0.5 (case slots in different definition sen-tences are not merged in any case).
Similarityof two case slots is the average of top 25% sim-ilarities of all possible pairs of examples.In the case of Table 2, the similarity between[house] and [window] is 0.80, and that between[house] and <place> is 0.67, so that these threecase slots are merged into one case slot.4.3 Obligatory case selectionPreliminary case frames contain both obliga-tory cases and optional cases for the head word.Since we can expect that an obligatory caseco-occurs with the head word in the form ofnoun phrase frequently, we can take frequentcase slots as obligatory case of the head word.However, we have to be careful to set upthe frequency thresholds, because case slots de-tected by DBA or <obligatory case> by SBAare more likely to be obligatory; on the otherhand case slots of <modification> or <time>should be always optional.
Considering thesetendencies, we set thresholds for obligatorycases as shown in Table 3.In the case of hisashi ?eaves/visor?
in Table 2,[house-window]-<place> slot and [cap] slot arechosen as the obligatory cases.4.4 Case frame construction for eachmeaningCase slots that are derived from each definitionsentence constitute a case frame.If a case slot of <obligatory case> by SBAor <other> is not merged into case slots in def-inition sentences, it can be considered that itindicates a meaning of Nh which is not coveredin the dictionary.
Therefore, such a case slotconstitutes an independent case frame.On the other hand, when other case slots bySBA such as <belonging> and <possessive>are remaining, we have to treat them differently.The reason why they are remaining is that theyare not always described in the definition sen-tences, but their frequent occurrences indicatethey are obligatory cases.
Therefore, we addthese case slots to the case frames derived fromdefinition sentences.Table 4 shows several examples of resul-tant case frames.
Hyoujou ?expression?
has acase frame containing two case slots.
Hisashi?eaves/visor?
has two case frames according tothe two definition sentences.
In case of hiki-dashi ?drawer?, the first case frame correspondsto the definition given in the dictionary, andthe second case frame was constructed from the<other> case slot, which is actually anothersense of hikidashi, missed in the dictionary.
Incase of coach, <possessive> is added to the caseframe which was made from the definition, pro-ducing a reasonable case frame for the word.4.5 Point of nominal case frameconstructionThe point of our method is the integrateduse of a dictionary and example phrases fromlarge corpora.
Although dictionary definitionsentences are informative resource to indicateobligatory cases of nouns, it is difficult to doindirect anaphora resolution by using a dictio-nary as it is, because all nouns in a definitionsentence are not an obligatory case, and onlythe frequency information of noun phrases tellsus which is the obligatory case.
Furthermore,sometimes a definition is too specific or detailed,and the example phrases can adjust it properly,as in the example of hisashi in Table 2.On the other hand, a simple method thatjust collects and clusters ?Nm no Nh?
phrases(based on some similarity measure of nouns)can not construct comprehensive nominal caseframes, because of polysemy and multiple oblig-atory cases.
We can see that dictionary defini-tion can guide the clustering properly even forsuch difficult cases.Table 4: Examples of nominal case frames.case slot exampleshisashi :1 ?eaves/visor?
(the edges of a roof that stick out above the window of a house etc.
)[house, window] parking, store, hall, ?
?
?hisashi :2 ?eaves/visor?
(the fore piece of a cap.
)[cap] cap, helmet, ?
?
?hyoujou ?expression?
(to express one?s feelings on the face or by gestures.
)[one] people, person, citizen, ?
?
?
[feelings] relief, margin, ?
?
?hikidashi :1 ?drawer?
(a boxlike container in a desk or a chest.
)[desk, chest] desk, chest, dresser, ?
?
?hikidashi :2 ?drawer?
<other> credit, fund, saving, ?
?
?coach (a person who teaches technique in some sport.
)[sport] baseball, swimming, ?
?
?<belonging> team, club, ?
?
?kabushiki ?stock?
(the total value of a company?s shares.
)[company] company, corporation, ?
?
?5 Indirect Anaphora ResolutionTo examine the practical usefulness of the con-structed nominal case frames, we built a pre-liminary system of indirect anaphora resolutionbased on the case frames.An input sentence is parsed using theJapanese parser, KNP (Kurohashi and Nagao,1994).
Then, from the beginning of the sen-tence, each noun x is analyzed.
When x hasmore than one case frame, the process of an-tecedent estimation (stated in the next para-graph) is performed for each case frame, and thecase frame with the highest similarity score (de-scribed below) and assignments of antecedentsto the case frame are selected as a final result.For each case slot of the target case frame ofx, its antecedent is estimated.
A possible an-tecedent y in the target sentence and the previ-ous two sentences is checked.
This is done oneby one, from the syntactically closer y.
If thesimilarity of y to the case slot is equal to orgreater than a threshold ?
(currently 0.95), itis assigned to the case slot.The similarity between y and a case slot isdefined as the highest similarity between y andan example in the case slot.For instance, let us consider the sentenceshown in Figure 1. soccer, at the beginning ofthe sentence, has no case frame, and is consid-ered to have no obligatory case.For the second noun ticket, soccer, which isa nominal modifier of ticket, is examined first.The similarity between soccer and the examplesof the case slot [theater, transport] exceeds thesoccer-noticket-gatakainedan-deurareteita.expensivepricebe soldcase slot examples resultticket [theater, transport] stage, game,?
?
?
soccernedan [things] thing, ticket,?
?
?
ticketticket a printed piece of paper which shows that you havepaid to enter a theater or use a transportnedan the amount of money for which things are sold orboughtFigure 1: Indirect anaphora resolution example.threshold ?, and soccer is assigned to [theater,transport].Lastly, for nedan ?price?, its possible an-tecedents are ticket and soccer.
ticket, whichis the closest from nedan, is checked first.
Thesimilarity between ticket and the examples ofthe case slot [things] exceeds the threshold ?,and ticket is judged as the antecedent of nedan.6 ExperimentsWe evaluated the automatically constructednominal case frames, and conducted an experi-ment of indirect anaphora resolution.6.1 Evaluation of case framesWe constructed nominal case frames from news-paper articles in 25 years (12 years of Mainichinewspaper and 13 years of Nihonkeizai newspa-per).
These newspaper corpora consist of aboutTable 5: Evaluation result of case frames.precision recall F58/70 (0.829) 58/68 (0.853) 0.84125,000,000 sentences, and 10,000,000 ?Nm noNh?
noun phrases were extracted from them.The result consists of 17,000 nouns, the averagenumber of case frames for a noun is 1.06, andthe average number of case slots for a case frameis 1.09.We randomly selected 100 nouns that occurmore than 10,000 times in the corpora, and cre-ated gold standard case frames by hand.
Foreach test noun, possible case frames were con-sidered, and for each case frame, obligatory caseslots were given manually.
As a result, 68 caseframes for 65 test nouns were created, and 35test nouns have no case frames.We evaluated automatically constructed caseframes for these test nouns against the goldstandard case frames.
A case frame which hasthe same case slots with the gold standard isjudged as correct.
The evaluation result isshown in Table 5: the system output 70 caseframes, and out of them, 58 case frames werejudged as correct.The recall was deteriorated by the highly re-stricted conditions in the example collection.For instance, maker does not have obligatorycase slot for its products.
This is because makeris usually used in the form of compound nounphrase, ?products maker?, and there are fewoccurrences of ?products no maker?.
To ad-dress this problem, not only ?Nm no Nh?
butalso ?Nm Nh?
(compound noun phrase) and?Nm ni-kansuru ?in terms of?
Nh?
should becollected.6.2 Experimental results of indirectanaphora resolutionWe conducted a preliminary experiment ofour indirect anaphora resolution system using?Relevance-tagged corpus?
(Kawahara et al,2002).
This corpus consists of Japanese news-paper articles, and has relevance tags, includingantecedents of indirect anaphors.We prepared a small test corpus that con-sists of randomly selected 10 articles.
The testcorpus contains 217 nouns.
Out of them, 106nouns are indirect anaphors, and have 108 an-tecedents, which is because two nouns have dou-ble antecedents.
49 antecedents directly dependon their anaphors, and 59 do not.
For 91 an-tecedents out of 108, a case frame of its anaphorTable 6: Experimental results of indirectanaphora resolution.precision recall Fw dep.
40/46 (0.870) 40/59 (0.678) 0.762w/o dep.
31/61 (0.508) 31/49 (0.633) 0.564total 71/107 (0.664) 71/108 (0.657) 0.660includes the antecedent itself or its similar word(the similarity exceeds the threshold, 0.95).
Ac-cordingly, the upper bound of the recall of ourcase-frame-based anaphora resolution is 84.3%(91/108).We ran the system on the test corpus, andcompared the system output and the corpus an-notation.
Table 6 shows the experimental re-sults.
In this table, ?w dep.?
(with dependency)is the evaluation of the antecedents that directlydepend on their anaphors.
?w/o dep.?
(with-out dependency) is the case of the antecedentsthat do not directly depend on their anaphors.Although the analysis of ?w dep.?
is intrinsi-cally easier than that of ?w/o dep.
?, the recallof ?w dep.?
was not much higher than thatof ?w/o dep.?.
The low recall score of ?w dep.
?was caused by nonexistence of case frames whichinclude the antecedent itself or its similar word.The antecedents that directly depend on theiranaphors were often a part of compound nounphrases, such as ?products maker?, which arenot covered by our examples collection.Major errors in the analyses of the an-tecedents that do not directly depend on theiranaphors were caused by the following reasons.Specific/generic usages of nounsSome erroneous system outputs were caused bynouns that have both specific and generic us-ages.
(3) kogaisya-nosubsidiarykabushiki-wostockbaikyaku-shita.sell(?
sold the stock of the subsidiary.
)In this case, kogaisya ?subsidiary?
is an oblig-atory information for kabushiki ?stock?, which isspecifically used.
kogaisya matches the [kaisya?company?]
case slot in Table 4.However, kabushiki ?stock?
in the following ex-ample is used generically, and does not need spe-cific company information.
(4)kabushikistocksouba-nopriceoshiageriseyouin-to naru.factor become(?
become the rise factor of the stock prices.
)Since the current system cannot judge genericor specific nouns, an antecedent which corre-sponds to [kaisha ?company?]
is incorrectly esti-mated.Beyond selectional restriction of caseframesSelectional restriction based on the case framesusually worked well, but did not work to distin-guish candidates both of which belong to Hu-man or Organization.
(5) Bush beiAmericanseiken-waadministrationRussia-tono... Bush daitouryou-gapresidentshutyou-shita.claim(Bush American administration ... withRussia ... President Bush claimed ...)In this example, daitouryou ?president?
re-quires an obligatory case kuni ?nation?.
The sys-tem estimates its antecedent as Russia, thoughthe correct answer is bei ?America?.
This is be-cause Russia is closer than beikoku.
This prob-lem is somehow related to world knowledge, butif the system can carefully exploit the context,it might be able to find the correct answer from?Bush bei seiken?
?Bush American administra-tion?.7 ConclusionThis paper has first proposed an automaticconstruction method of Japanese nominal caseframes.
This method is based on semantic anal-ysis of noun phrases ?Nm no Nh?
?Nh of Nm?.To examine the practical usefulness of the con-structed nominal case frames, we built a pre-liminary system of indirect anaphora resolutionbased on the case frames.
The evaluation indi-cated the good quality of the constructed caseframes.
On the other hand, the accuracy of ourindirect anaphora resolution system is not satis-factory.
In the future, we are planning to makethe case frames more wide-coverage, and im-prove the indirect anaphora resolution by con-sidering larger context and more various factors.ReferencesTed Briscoe and John Carroll.
1997.
Auto-matic extraction of subcategorization fromcorpora.
In Proceedings of the 5th Confer-ence on Applied Natural Language Process-ing, pages 356?363.Udo Hahn, Michael Strube, and Katja Markert.1996.
Bridging textual ellipses.
In Proceed-ings of the 16th International Conference onComputational Linguistics, pages 496?501.Daisuke Kawahara and Sadao Kurohashi.
2002.Fertilization of case frame dictionary for ro-bust Japanese case analysis.
In Proceedings ofthe 19th International Conference on Compu-tational Linguistics, pages 425?431.Daisuke Kawahara and Sadao Kurohashi.
2004.Zero pronoun resolution based on automati-cally constructed case frames and structuralpreference of antecedents.
In Proceedings ofthe 1st International Joint Conference onNatural Language Processing.Daisuke Kawahara, Sadao Kurohashi, and Ko?itiHasida.
2002.
Construction of a Japaneserelevance-tagged corpus.
In Proceedings ofthe 3rd International Conference on Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation, pages 2008?2013.Sadao Kurohashi and Makoto Nagao.
1994.
Asyntactic analysis method of long Japanesesentences based on the detection of conjunc-tive structures.
Computational Linguistics,20(4):507?534.Sadao Kurohashi and Yasuyuki Sakai.
1999.Semantic analysis of Japanese noun phrases:A new approach to dictionary-based under-standing.
In Proceedings of the 37th AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, pages 481?488.Masaki Murata, Hitoshi Isahara, and MakotoNagao.
1999.
Pronoun resolution in Japanesesentences using surface expressions and exam-ples.
In Proceedings of the ACL?99 Workshopon Coreference and Its Applications, pages39?46.Massimo Poesio, Tomonori Ishikawa,Sabine Schulte im Walde, and RenataVieira.
2002.
Acquiring lexical knowledge foranaphora resolution.
In Proceedings of the3rd International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation, pages 1220?1224.Michael Strube and Udo Hahn.
1999.
Func-tional centering ?
grounding referential coher-ence in information structure.
ComputationalLinguistics, 25(3):309?344.Jun-ichi Tajika, editor.
1997.
Reikai SyogakuKokugojiten.
Sanseido.Renata Vieira and Massimo Poesio.
2000.
Anempirically based system for processing defi-nite descriptions.
Computational Linguistics,26(4):539?592.
