Predicative NPs and the annotation of reference chainsKaja BorthenNorwegian University of Science and Technology7491 Trondheim,Norway,kaja.borthen@hf.ntnu.noAbstractIn the development of machine learning sys-tems for identification of reference chains,hand-annotated corpora play a crucial role.This paper concerns the question of howpredicative NPs should be annotated w.r.t.coreference in corpora for such systems.This question highlights the tension thatsometimes appears in the development ofcorpora between linguistic considerationsand the aim for perfection on the onehand and practical applications and the aimfor efficiency on the other.
Many currentprojects that seek to identify coreferentiallinks automatically, assume an annotationstrategy which instructs the annotator tomark a predicative NP as coreferential withits subject if it is part of a positive sentence.This paper argues that such a representa-tion is not linguistically plausible, and thatit will fail to generate an optimal result.1 IntroductionPredicative NPs in positive sentences aremarked as coreferential with their subject inmany projects that develop corpora for coref-erence chains.
This is exemplified by the an-notation scheme of MUC-7 (Hirschman andChinchor, 1997), on which several annotationschemes are based.
Also in more theoreticalworks this has been a common mark-up, at leastfor definite predicative NPs.
For example, theproper name David Beckham and the definitephrase the second best player in the world in (1)below are regarded as coreferential and anaphor-ically related to each other by Mitkov (2002),whose intention seems to be to present the stan-dard view on this issue.
(1) David Beckham was voted the secondbest player in the world behind Rivaldo.There are several arguments in favor of treat-ing a predicative NP and its subject as part ofthe same reference chain if they appear in a pos-itive sentence.
A predicative NP and its subjectare often used to describe the same individual inthe world.
As the goal for automatic identifica-tion of reference chains is primarily to identifyequivalence sets, i.e.
sets of nominals that referto the same entity, this is a strong argument forassuming coreference between predicative NPsand their subject.A second argument in favor of this is that oneotherwise loses important information about ref-erents in terms of descriptive content.
Considerthe following example:(2) Skogfoss is your parents?
farm, isn?t it?I remember that farm.In (2) above, we want to capture the fact thatSkogfoss and that farm refer to the same entity.If one assumes an annotation strategy whereSkogfoss and the predicative NP your parents?farm are marked as part of the same referencechain, then the descriptive content contributedby farm is added to the reference chain, whichin turn makes it highly likely that the later ex-pression that farm belongs to the same referencechain, as desired.
In other words, the descrip-tive content contributed by a predicative phrase- if assumed to be coreferential with its subject -can be useful for identifying desired subsequentcoreferences.
Correspondingly, it can also beuseful for ruling out undesired ones.The fact that the majority of annotated cor-pora for coreference identification mark predica-tive NPs in positive sentences as coreferentialwith their subject, is in other words quite wellmotivated.
Still, we will claim that it is legit-imate to question the plausibility of this prac-tice, due to facts that we will look at in thenext section.
These arguments give support tovan Deemter and Kibble (2000), who argue thatit is problematic that the annotation strategyassumed in MUC-6 and MUC-7 goes beyond amark-up of coreference.2 Why non-reflexive predicative NPsare not anaphoric to their subjectReference chains may be marked in terms of setmembership, but they can also be marked interms of anaphor-antecedent pairs.
We there-fore want to consider whether it is plausible toassume that predicative NPs are anaphoric totheir subject.An anaphor is often defined as a constituentwhose interpretation is dependent on somemeaning aspect of a prior constituent, calledthe antecedent.
The need for an antecedentis assumed to be due to an impoverished se-mantic content in the anaphor itself, and typ-ically, the antecedent is a more complete se-mantic description.
There are different typesof anaphor-antecedent relations, but we will fo-cus on anaphor-antecedent relations that encodeidentity of reference.
In such relations, nominalforms play an important role in identifying ananaphor?s antecedent, as different nominal formssignal different attention states for the associ-ated referent (Gundel et al, 1993).Given this notion of anaphor, we will mentionfour reasons not to assume that predicative NPsare anaphorically related to their subject.First, it is inherent in the notions anaphorand antecedent that the antecedent is the sourceof interpretation for the anaphor.
Thus, ifan anaphor?s antecedent is identified and in-terpreted, the anaphor is supposed to be inter-pretable as well.
If one assumes that predicativeNPs are anaphoric to their subject, this raisesthe expectation that a predicative NP will al-ways be interpretable as long as its subject isinterpreted.
But this is not always the case:(3) a. Fido is the dog I talked about.b.
A: Who is the witch in this play?B: I am the witch.In (3a), imagine a situation where Fido ispresent in the immediate context, so that thesubject phrase Fido can easily be understood.Assuming that predicative NPs are anaphoric totheir subject, this should mean that the predica-tive NP the dog I talked about can be sufficientlyinterpreted without any special contextual re-quirements except from the sentence itself andthe presence of Fido.
But this is not the case, asthe dog I talked about can only be fully under-stood if the phrase has some other antecedentthan Fido.
Thus, in this case, identifying thesubject as the antecedent of a predicative NPis not sufficient to interpret the predicative NP.The example in (3b) is another case where apredicative NP does not seem to be anaphori-cally related to its subject.
The phrase the witchin B?s reply is an anaphor, as it cannot be in-terpreted in isolation.
As for its antecedent, itmakes more sense to say that it has the witchin this play as its antecedent than the subjectphrase I. I is not anaphoric to the expressionthe witch in this play, as the interpretation of Iis independent it.
Thus, if one assumes that thesubject phrase I is the antecedent of the pred-icative phrase the witch in (3b), then one doesnot get access to the desired information thatthe predicative phrase the witch refers to thesame witch as does the prior phrase the witch inthis play.
In sum, the examples in (3) show thatassuming coreference between a predicative NPand its subject in a positive predicative sentenceis not always enough to interpret the predicativeNP.
This, in turn, suggests that a predicativeNP and its subject in a positive sentence do notalways stand in an anaphor-antecedent relationto each other.Something that supports this suggestion isthat it is hard to find differences between pos-itive and negative predicative sentences w.r.t.the interpretation of the predicative phrase.
Ob-viously, predicative NPs in negated sentencesare not coreferential with their subjects, and notanaphorically related to them.
If a predicativeNP and its subject were necessarily anaphor-ically related in positive sentences, one wouldexpect that the interpretation of a predica-tive NP in a positive sentence would be lesscontext-dependent than for a corresponding iso-lated negative sentence, due to the presence ofa sentence-internal antecedent.
But examplesthat support this expectation are hard to find,and have not yet been detected by this author.It seems that in both positive and negative pred-icative sentences the predicative phrase can beinterpreted and sufficiently understood indepen-dently of its subject.A third argument for not assuming that pred-icative NPs in positive sentences are anaphoricto their subject is that they do not follow thenormal pattern for anaphoric expressions w.r.t.NP-form.
Whereas anaphora are often pronom-inal and only very rarely indefinite, predicativeNPs are hardly ever pronominal and quite oftenindefinite.
The contrast w.r.t.
nominal form isillustrated by the following text fragments:(4) a. Kari is in good shape.
She is oftenexercising.
She/ a sporty girl bikesto work every day.b.
Kari is in good shape.
She is oftenexercising.
She is a sporty girl.In (4a), the two occurrences of the pronounshe are interpreted as referring to Kari.
The in-definite phrase a sporty girl, on the other hand,is not likely to refer to Kari in (4a); rather, thephrase is interpreted generically.
This illustratesthe fact that indefinite NPs are bad candidatesfor being anaphora.
This tendency does nothold for predicative NPs, though, assuming thatthey are anaphora.
This is shown in (4b), wherewe see that an indefinite predicative NP can verywell be preceded by a pronoun that describes thesame individual as the predicative NP.
In otherwords, if one assumes that predicative NPs areanaphoric to their subject, one has to explainwhy predicative NPs do not have the expectedforms of nominal anaphora.1Predicative NPs aretypically either indefinite or initiated by the def-inite article, which are forms that do not requireprevious familiarity with the referent (Gundel etal., 1993).A fourth argument for not treating predica-tive NPs as anaphoric to their subject has to dowith binding principles (Chomsky, 1981).
Theinterpretation of a reflexive predicative NP isdependent on the interpretation of its subject,so we take it as uncontroversial that a reflexivepredicative NP like the one in (5a) is anaphoricto its subject, just as the reflexive in (5b).
(5) a.
She has always been herself.b.
She blamed herself.Usually, in positions that license reflexives,full lexical NPs cannot be inserted without af-fecting the interpretation.
This is illustrated bythe contrast between (5b) above and (6b) below.
(6) a.
She has always been my best friend.b.
She blamed my best friend.There is a very strong preference for interpret-ing my best friend and she in (6b) as referring1Mitkov (2002) suggests that whereas definite pred-icative NPs should be regarded as anaphoric to theirsubject, indefinite ones should not be regarded as such.This solves the problem that predicative NPs are oftenindefinite, whereas most anaphora are not.
However,this distinction between indefinite and definite predica-tive NPs does not solve the more general problem thatdefinite as well as indefinite predicative NPs do not seemto get their interpretation through their subject.to different individuals, and it is impossible touse (6b) to enforce coreference between the ob-ject and the subject, as in (5b).
This illustratesthe motivation for a binding principle which pre-dicts, among other things, that a lexical NP can-not be anaphorically bound by a co-argument.If we say that the lexical predicative NP in(6a) is anaphoric to, and coreferential with, itssubject, then we have to assume that there aredifferent binding principles for the arguments ofthe verb be than for other verbs.
The differenceis then that with predicative NPs, unlike non-predicative ones, both reflexive and nonreflexiveNPs can appear in the same position with thesame anaphoric interpretation.
If we, on theother hand, do not assume coreference and ananaphor-antecedent relation in (6a), we can dowith one general binding principle.3 DiscussionIn section 2 we have seen arguments which sug-gest that non-reflexive predicative NPs are notanaphoric to their subject.
First of all, as-suming that a predicative NP is coreferentialwith its subject is not always enough to as-sign it an interpretation.
Secondly, contraryto what one would expect, there is no differ-ence between positive and negative predicativesentences w.r.t.
the context-dependency of thepredicative phrase.
Thirdly, non-reflexive pred-icative NPs do not have the forms that areexpected for nominal anaphora.
And finally,non-reflexive predicative NPs behave differentlyw.r.t.
binding than what is expected if they areassumed to be anaphora.These facts suggest that the reason why manypredicative NPs are intuitively seen as describ-ing the same individual as their subject is a dif-ferent reason from that which identifies the an-tecedent of an anaphor.
We propose that non-reflexive predicative NPs are not anaphoric totheir subject, but rather part of a predicationwhich holds of the subject referent.But marking coreference is not necessarily thesame as marking anaphor-antecedent pairs, asreference chains can also be thought of in termsof equivalence sets.
So does the conclusion thatnon-reflexive predicative NPs are not anaphoricto their subject mean that one should neverannotate predicative NPs as coreferential withtheir subject when building corpora with refer-ence chains?
As far as we can see, that dependson the intended application for the system, onthe machine learning system?s abilities, and onwhat additional information is available or re-trievable from the corpus and/or the system.On the one hand: As long as the machinelearning method applied is capable of learningtwo different systems at once, it may be desir-able to include predicative NPs in the same ref-erence chain as their subject, if part of posi-tive sentences.
As argued in section 1, predica-tive NPs in positive sentences do describe thesame individual as their subject does, and thesemantic information in predicative NPs can beuseful for identifying desired later coreferencesand ruling out undesired ones.
For practicalapplications it is a goal to collect equivalenceclasses, and the richer these are, the better.The approach is furthermore not very effort-demanding.
The drawback of the approach isthat it seems to mix two distinct phenomena,i.e.
reference tracking and predication.
The an-notation strategy is therefore theoretically ques-tionable and is likely to lead to unsatisfactoryresults in some cases, as illustrated by the ex-amples in (3).On the other hand: Imagine a system wherereferents are not seen as individuals in the world,but abstract entities where e.g.
(1) states a be-relation between the discourse referent associ-ated with David Beckham and the intensionalobject corresponding to the second best playerin the world.
Imagine further that one dis-tinguishes between (discourse) referent trackingand collection of predications.
Predicative NPswill only be annotated as coreferential with theirsubject if they are reflexive, but any predicativeNP will be kept track of as part of a predicationthat holds of its subject referent.
Thus, thereare two sources of information about referents;the descriptions used to refer to them, and pred-ications made about them.
The latter sourcewill be of importance for reference tracking alsoindependently of predicative NPs.
Consider (7).
(7) Fred drives a taxi, whereas Joe studiesmath.
Who would you prefer to meet,the math student or the taxi driver?The information retrieved from the predica-tions about Fred and Joe is crucial to assignthe correct interpretation to the expressions themath student and the taxi driver.
If predicationsabout referents are kept track of just as well asreference chains, then we are in principle able toachieve the correct interpretation for (7).Thus, with the present approach, whichkeeps reference tracking and predication track-ing apart, it is not necessary to assume thatpredicative NPs are coreferential with their sub-ject in order to exploit the important semanticinformation they may contribute about the sub-ject referent.
The present approach is also moretheoretically plausible in that it singles out twoarguably distinct phenomena, and it is not likelyto go wrong in cases like those in (3).
The maindrawback of this approach is that it is effort-demanding, as it requires a semantic componentthat keeps track of predications as well as ref-erents.
Such a component is not part of mostcurrent automatic systems for reference track-ing, and without it, the approach produces lessinformation about referents than its competitordescribed above.
For instance, without the com-ponent to keep track of predications, one doesn?tcapture the fact that a predicative NP in a pos-itive sentence is a property of the subject ref-erent, whereas a predicative NP in a negativesentence is not.4 ConclusionWe claim that the common practise in anno-tation of reference chains conflates two dis-tinct phenomena when it comes to predica-tive NPs; i.e.
reference tracking on the onehand and tracking of predications on the other.We acknowledge that this conflation may bethe most efficient and successful approach atthe time being, but we believe that treat-ing these two phenomena as distinct will turnout to be the most successful approach whenricher systems are being developed.
The Nor-wegian coreference task project BREDT (seehttp://ling.uib.no/BREDT/) follows this latterstrategy.ReferencesChomsky, N. 1981.
Lectures on government andbinding.
Foris, Dodrecht.Gundel, J., N. Hedberg and R. Zacharski.
1993.Cognitive status and the form of referring ex-pressions in discourse.
Language, 69:274-307.Hirschman, L. and N. Chinchor.
1997.
MUC-7coreference task definition.
MUC-7 Proceed-ings.
Science Applications International Cor-poration.
See www.muc.saic.com.Mitkov, R. 2002.
Anaphora Resolution.
Pear-son Education.van Deemter, K. and R. Kibble.
2000.
On Core-ferring: Coreference in MUC and RelatedAnnotation Schemes.
Computational Linguis-tics, 26(4).
