A Support System for Revising Titlesto Stimulate the Lay Reader?s Interest in Technical AchievementsYasuko Senda?
?, Yasusi Sinohara?, and Manabu Okumura?
?System Engineering Research Laboratory,Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry, Tokyo Japan?Department of Computational Intelligence and Systems Science,Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo Japan?Precision and Intelligence Laboratory, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo JapanAbstractWhen we write a report or an explanationon a newly-developed technology for readersincluding laypersons, it is very important tocompose a title that can stimulate their in-terest in the technology.
However, it is dif-ficult for inexperienced authors to come upwith an appealing title.In this research, we developed a support sys-tem for revising titles.
We call it ?title revi-sion wizard?.
The wizard provides a guid-ance on revising draft title to compose a titlemeeting three key points, and support toolsfor coming up with and elaborating on com-prehensible or appealing phrases.In order to test the effect of our title revisionwizard, we conducted a questionnaire sur-vey on the effect of the titles with or with-out using the wizard on the interest of layreaders.
The survey showed that the wiz-ard is effective and helpful for the authorswho cannot compose appealing titles for layreaders by themselves.1 IntroductionWhen we read a document, we usually read itstitle first, and then we read the body text onlyif the title catches our interest.
Therefore, whenwe write a report or an explanation on a newly-developed technology intended for readers in-cluding laypersons, it is very important to com-pose a title that will stimulate their interest inthe technology.
However, technical specialistsare not necessarily good at composing appeal-ing titles, because it isn?t clear what sort of titleswill stimulate the interest of lay readers in thetechnology.In the field of NLP and linguistics, there arefew researches which help the specialists com-pose appealing titles for lay readers.
Severalresearches have been reported on title genera-tion (Jin and Hauptmann, 2000) (Berger andMittal, 2000) and readability of texts (Minel etal., 1997) (Hartley and Sydes, 1997) (Inui et al,2003).
However, the researches on title gener-ation focus on generating a very compact sum-mary of the document rather than composingan appealing title.
The previous researches onreadability mainly see it as comprehensibilityrather than interestingness.In this regard, our previous study (Senda andSinohara, 2002) clarified what sort of contentand wording in titles are effective in stimulat-ing lay readers?
interest in the technology by ananalysis of a parallel corpus of Japanese techni-cal paper titles and Japanese newspapers head-lines.
The study categorized the effective con-tent and wording of the titles into the followingthree key points.Key Point 1 (for Wording) Instead of tech-nical terms, use synonymous plain termseven where the plain term is not synony-mous with the technical term in a precisesense.Key Point 2 (for Content) Describe whatthe technology is for, rather than whatthe technology does.Key Point 3 (for Content) Describe the ad-vantages of the technology, rather thanthe method of realizing the technology.Our next goal is to enable inexperienced au-thors to compose a title according to these keypoints.
To this end, we developed a supportsystem for revising titles.
We call it ?title revi-sion wizard?.
The wizard provides a guidanceon revising draft title to compose a title meet-ing the key points, and a few support tools forcoming up with and elaborating on appealingphrases.
In this paper, we report on the titlerevision wizard, and a questionnaire survey onthe effect of titles composed with and withoutusing the wizard on the interest of lay readers.2 Method for Revising TitlesIntended for Lay ReadersIt is difficult for inexperienced authors to changetheir ?specialist-centered mind-set?
and come5VGR+PRWVUQOGRJTCUGUKPVQVJGVKVNGVGORNCVG5VGR4GXKUGVJGRJTCUGUKP1$2UNQVU5VGR4GXKUGVJGRJTCUGUKP122UNQVU5VGR5GNGEVVJGVKVNGHTQORQUUKDNGVKVNGUIGPGTCVGFKPVJGCDQXGUVGRU/GVJQFVQ5JQTVGPVJG4CFKQCEVKXG*CNHNKHGD[/GVCNNKE(WGN($4=1DNKICVQT[2CTV1$2?
=1RVKQPCN2CTV122?/GVJQFVQ5JQTVGPVJG&WTCVKQPQH4CFKCVKQP/GVJQFVQ5JQTVGPVJG5VQTCIG2GTKQFQH4CFKQCEVKXG9CUVGD[$WTPQWV6GORNCVGQH1$2HQT-G[2QKPV%JCPIGVGEJPKECNVGTOUVQU[PQP[OQWURNCKPVGTOU/GVJQFVQ5JQTVGPVJG5VQTCIG2GTKQFQH4CFKQCEVKXG9CUVG'ZRNCKPYJCVVJGVGEJPQNQI[KUHQTTCVJGTVJCPYJCVVJGVGEJPQNQI[FQGU6GORNCVGQH1$2122HQT-G[2QKPV%JCPIGVGEJPKECNVGTOUVQU[PQP[OQWURNCKPVGTOU'ZRNCKPVJGCFXCPVCIGUQHVJGVGEJPQNQI[TCVJGTVJCPVJGOGVJQFQHTGCNK\KPIVJGVGEJPQNQI[/GVJQFVQ5JQTVGPVJG5VQTCIG2GTKQFQH4CFKQCEVKXG9CUVGD[6KVNG6KVNG6KVNG6KVNG6GORNCVGQH1$2HQT-G[2QKPV6GORNCVGQH1$2122HQT-G[2QKPV&TCHV8GTUKQP9JKVGITQWPFKUUNQVHQTKPRWVVKPICPFTGXKUKPI2CTCNNGN%QTRWUQH6KVNGUCPF*GCFNKPGU6GEJPKECN6GTOU%JGEMGT/GPW1RVKQPUQHVJG2JTCUGU7UGFKP0GYURCRGT*GCFNKPG5WRRQTV6QQNU2TQXKFGFKPVJG9K\CTFFigure 1: Steps in the Procedure for Revising draft title Using the Wizardup with appealing titles for lay readers evenwhen they know the three key points.In our title revision wizard, therefore, the au-thors first input draft title into the title tem-plate, and then compose candidates of title byrevising the phrases of the draft title accordingto the wizard?s guidance with the help of thesupport tools provided.The steps in the wizard?s procedure are il-lustrated in Figure 1 1 .
In the following, weexplain the steps with reference to Figure 1.2.1 Inputting Some Phrases into theTitle TemplateIn step 1, the user inputs draft title into thetitle template displayed in the wizard window.The title template consists of an ?OBligatoryPart?
(OB-P) and an ?OPtional Part?
(OP-P).The OB-P phrase describes what the technologydoes, and OP-P phrase describes the methodused to implement the technology or the advan-tages of the technology.2.2 Revising the Obligatory PhrasesIn step 2, the wizard presents only OB-P to theuser, and hides OP-P.
The user revises only theOB-P phrase according to the two key points.First, the user changes technical terms to thesynonymous plain terms according to key point1The sample titles presented in Figure 1 are trans-lated into English from original Japanese titles.1.
In the template 2-1 in step 2, the technicalterm ?the Radioactive Half-life?
is changed tothe plainer term ?the Duration of Radiation?from this viewpoint.Secondly, the user changes the phrase in theOB-P slots to describe the purpose of the tech-nology rather than what the technology does,according to key point 2.
In the template 2-2in step 2, the phrase ?Shorten the RadioactiveHalf-life?
is changed to the phrase ?Shorten theStorage Period of Radioactive Waste?
from thisview point.These revised OB-P phrases without optionalphrase are recorded as candidates of ?simple?title for future selection in step 4.
At the endof step 2, for future revision in step 3, the userselects one title that he/she deems the betterone from these candidates of title.2.3 Revising the Optional PhrasesIn step 3, the wizard presents new title combin-ing OB-P phrase (selected at the end of step 2)and the OP-P phrase (inputted in step 1) as adraft title.
The user revises only the OP-P draftphrase according to the two key points.First, the user changes technical terms to syn-onymous plain terms according to key point 1.In the template 3-1 in step 3, the technical term?Metallic Fuel FBR?
in the slot is changed tothe plainer term ?Burnout?
from this viewpoint.Secondly, the user changes the phrase in theslot to describe the advantages of the technologyrather than the method of realizing the technol-ogy according to key point 3.
In the template3-2 in step 3, the OP-P phrase is changed to thephrase ?by 1/10000?
from this viewpoint.The title combining the title selected in step2 and each phrase revised at step 3 are recordedas candidates of title for future selection in step4.
Before next step, the user can return to step2 to select another OB-P phrase and revise OP-P phrase attached to the OB-P phrase in step3 again if he/she likes.2.4 Select the Title from TitleCandidatesIn step 4, the user selects one title from thecandidates of title composed in the above steps.2.5 An Example of the Wizard WindowFigure 2 is a screenshot of the Wizard.
Thisscreenshot shows the window in step 2 describedin section 2.2.
The Japanese text in upper paneof the window is the explanation of key point1.
The template for the OB-P Phrase for keypoint 1 is displayed at the bottom of the win-dow.
The buttons in the center of the pane arefor accessing the support tools for coming upwith and elaborating the input phrase.
Detailof the support tools will be given in the nextsection.Title revision wizard is implemented in PHP(Hypertext Preprocessor).
Users can access thewizard using a web browser such as Internet Ex-plorer.3 Support Tools provided in theWizardIn this section, we explain the three supporttools provided in the title revision wizard.3.1 Database of Paper Titles andNewspapers Headlines for RelatedTechnologiesIt is difficult for inexperienced authors to comeup with a phrase meeting the three key points.We therefore prepared a parallel corpus of titlesand headlines for related technologies in orderto provide clues for coming up with an appropri-ate phrase.
The database consists of about 420titles and 440 headlines.
They were categorizedinto 150 groups on technology that has been de-veloped in a research institute, and covers sci-ence and technology in general.
The databaseis (b) in Figure 1.Figure 3 shows an example of the databasewindow.
The upper pane in the window showsthe phrases in titles and the headlines describ-ing related technologies.
The lower part of thewindow presents search boxes for menu-basedretrieval and keyword-based retrieval.
The pull-down menu options are organized by technicalfields.
Users can search the clues for revising thetitle of the draft version from these search boxesas well as by scrolling through the window.The role of this parallel corpus is basi-cally the same as the one of ?Example-BasedTranslation Aid (EBTA)?
(Sato, 1992) (Furu-gori and Takeda, 1993) (Kumano and Tanaka,1998).
EBTA researches have shown that par-allel translation examples (pairs of source textand its translation equivalent) are very helpfulfor translators to translate the similar text be-cause parallel translation examples give themuseful clues for translation.
From the viewpointthat paper titles and newspapers headlines forrelated technologies are also regarded as paral-lel translation examples (pairs of text for spe-cialists and its translation equivalent for layreaders) describing newly-developed technolo-gies, the our database is expected to be helpfulfor the user of the wizard.3.2 Technical Terms CheckerThe author should use comprehensible term forlay readers in order to compose the titles meet-ing the key point 1.
In order to avoid incompre-hensible terms, it is important to identify diffi-culty level of a term that authors want to use inhis/her title.
We, therefore, prepared ?techni-cal term checker?
estimating the difficulty levelof a term.It has been reported that human recognitionlevel of a term correlates with its frequency ofappearance (Homes and Solomon, 1951).
Fromthat standpoint, it is considered that frequencyof a term on the academic website representsthe recognition level of a term for the special-ists of the field, and that frequency of the termon the general website represents the one forlaypersons of the field.
On the basis of this con-cept, our ?technical term checker?
estimates thedifficulty level of a technical term on the basisof the frequencies on the academic and generalwebsite, and then inform the users about the re-sult on three level (?plain?, ?may be difficult?,?difficult?
).5WRRQTV6QQNUHQTKPRWVVKPI6KVNG6GORNCVGFigure 2: Screenshot of Title Revision WizardSearch Boxes for keyword retrieval and menu retrieval organized by technical fieldsTechnical Field The OB-P Phrases in Paper Titles The OB-P Phrases in Newspaper HeadlinesFigure 3: Parallel Corpus of Titles and Headlines for Related Technology3.3 Menu Options of the Phrases Usedin Newspapers HeadlinesIn order to meet key point 3, the authors have toconsider how to represent the advantages of thetechnologies from various viewpoints, and comeup with the phrase that can concisely representthe advantages.
However, it is considered thatthose who have a detailed knowledge of a techni-cal field are unaccustomed to represent the ad-vantages of the technologies in a title becauseprevious research showed that most of technicalpaper titles in Japanese does not included sucha phrase (Senda and Sinohara, 2002).We therefore prepared the pull-down menuoptions of the phrases representing technical ad-vantages used in newspapers headlines.
Themenu options presents about 70 phrases catego-rized by the way to describe the advantages oftechnology.
For example, in our menu options,the following phrases are listed by the followinggroup: high density, high concentration, highaccuracy, .
.
.
, low price, low cost, low pollution,.
.
.
, long-lived, long distance, .
.
.
, short time,short duration, .
.
.
, ; etc 2 .Figure 4 shows the menu options installed atthe title template for key point 3.
This menuoptions can help the users come up with or elab-orate on the phrases by offering various expres-sions and viewpoints.4 Effect of Title Revision WizardIn order to test the effect of the title revisionwizard, we conducted an experiment which had17 technical researchers revise their titles withand without using our wizard.
We then con-ducted a questionnaire survey on the effect ofthe titles on the interest of lay readers.4.1 Outline of the ExperimentWe conducted the experiment according to thefollowing procedures.Experiment 1 (Ex 1)1.
We showed each subject his technical pa-per title (published after 2000) on hisown developed technology.
We asked himto imagine himself writing an explanationof the same technology for lay readers.2.
We asked each subject to compose threecandidates of title for the explanation byhis own effort (that is, without our wiz-ard) within the 20-minute time limit.Experiment 2 (Ex 2)1.
After Ex 1, we input original technicalpaper title into first title template of ourtitle revision wizard (for draft title), andpresented each subject with the wizard.2.
We asked each subject to compose candi-dates of titles for the same document us-ing the wizard and select thee titles fromthe candidates within the 20-minute timelimit.The research fields of subjects were physics,electrical engineering, material science and me-teorology.
There was no intermission betweenEx 1 and 2.2These sample phrases are translated into Englishfrom original Japanese phrases.4.2 Outline of the QuestionnaireSurveyIn the questionnaire, each respondent wasshown seven titles per one technology that eachsubject developed.
They consisted of an origi-nal technical paper title, three titles composedat Ex 1, and three titles composed at Ex 2.
Eachrespondent was asked to select three-most inter-esting titles from these 7 titles per one technol-ogy.Respondents to the questionnaire were 108persons and general monitors of an Internet re-search firm.
We asked them to answer our ques-tionnaire on a Web page which was prepared forthis survey.This means, of course, that the results of thequestionnaire only contain responses from peo-ple who have some skill at using the Internet,rather than the public at large, because all re-spondents were able to use E-mail and accessthe web page.
However, at least, the resulthelps to write document on a Web page whichexplains new technology for lay readers.Moreover, the result is also an exercise inreaching the general lay readers over the Inter-net, and the use of the Internet is expected tobe increasingly important in reaching the gen-eral public.4.3 Analysis of Experiment andQuestionnaire SurveyFigure 5 shows the (average) share of the votewhich the respondents select three-most inter-esting titles from each author?s seven titles (bymethod of composing).
Figure 5 indicates that: The average share of the vote of the titlesrevised using the wizard are distributedwithin the highest range. The average share of the vote of the titlesrevised without using the wizard are dis-tributed within the second highest range, The share of the vote of original techni-cal paper titles are distributed within thethird highest range,We checked if there is a significant differencebetween the (average) share of the vote of orig-inal technical paper titles and the titles revisedwithout using the wizard by t-test.
As the re-sult, we confirmed that there is a significant dif-ference between these titles (the significant levelis 1%).
We also checked if there is a significantdifference between the share of the vote of thetitles revised with and without using the wizardPull down menu of the phrases describing the advantage of the technologyFigure 4: Pull-down Menu Options Organizing the Phrases Used in Newspaper Head-line????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
???
???
???
???
????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
?Figure 5: Histogram of Share of the Votewhich the Respondents Select Three-most Interesting Titles from Each Au-thor?s 7 Titles (by Method of Composing)by t-test.
As the result, We also confirmed thatthere is a significant difference between thesetitles (the significant level is 5%).These results show that the titles composedusing the wizard could stimulate the lay readers?interest the most among each subject?s seventitles.
In other words, the authors can stablycompose the more appealing titles for lay read-ers with using the wizard than without usingthe wizard.If an author could compose effective titles byhimself, he might not take an advantage fromthe wizard.
We, therefore, focused only onseven subjects who could not compose the ti-tles stimulating a majority of the respondents?interest without the wizard, and analyze the ef-?
?
?
?
?
?
??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
?Figure 6: Average Share of the Vote ofthe Titles Composed with and withoutUsing Wizardfect of their titles on the respondents?
interestin more detail.We, then, compared the average share of thevote for the titles which each of the seven au-thor revised with and without using the wizard.figure 6 shows that all the subjects can stablycompose the more appealing titles with usingthe wizard than without using the wizard.
Wechecked if there is a significant difference be-tween the share of the vote of the titles revisedwith and without using the wizard by t-test.
Asthe result, We also confirmed that there is a sig-nificant difference between these titles (the sig-nificant level is 1%).As the result of the above analysis, we con-firmed that the title revision wizard can helpthe users who cannot compose effective titlesby their own efforts.5 Conclusion and Future WorkWe emphasized that, in order to stimulate thelay reader?s interest in newly-developed technol-ogy, it is very important to compose an appeal-ing title, however it is difficult for inexperiencedauthors to come up with an appealing title.In this research, we developed a title revi-sion wizard that provides a guidance on revisingdraft title and a few support tools for comingup with and elaborating on appealing phrases.Moreover, we verified the effect of the title re-vision wizard.
As a result, the titles composedusing the wizard can stimulate the lay reader?sinterest more than the titles composed withoutusing the wizard.
In particular, our title revi-sion wizard can help the users who cannot com-pose effective titles by their own effort.In future work, we will analyze the differenceof the expression of the titles composed withand without using the wizard, and investigatewhat sort expression is effective to lay readers.AcknowledgementsThe authors would like to express our grati-tude to Ms. Tomoko Tsuchiya, Ms. MotokoKosugi, and Ms. Tomoko Mitamura of CentralResearch Institute of Electric Power Industryfor their valuable advices for our questionnairesurvey, and Mr. Masahito Tanaka of DenryokuComputing Center, Ltd. for his valuable sup-ports to implement our title revision wizard.
Inaddition, the authors would like to express ourgratitude to anonymous reviewers for their sug-gestions to improve our paper.ReferencesAdam L. Berger and Vibhu O. Mittal.
2000.Ocelot: A system for summarizing web pages.In Proc.
of the 23rd Annual InternationalACM-SIGIR Conference on Research andDevelopment in Information Retrieval, pages144?151, Athens, Greece.Teiji Furugori and Akiko Takeda.
1993.
Anexample-based system of writing english sen-tences for japanese english users.
Literaryand Linguistics Computing, 8(2):85?90.James Hartley and Matthew Sydes.
1997.
Arestructured abstracts easier to read than tradi-tional ones?
Journal of Research in Reading,20(2):122?136.Davis H. Homes and Richard L. Solomon.
1951.Visual duration threshold as a function ofword-probability.
Journal of ExperimentalPsychology, 41:401?410.Kentaro Inui, Atsushi Fujita, Tetsuro Taka-hashi, Ryu Iida, and Tomoyo Iwakura.2003.
Text simplification for reading assis-tance: A project note.
In Proc.
of The Sec-ond International Workshop on Paraphras-ing: Paraphrase Acquisition and Applications(IWP2003), pages 9?16, Sapporo, Japan.Rong Jin and Alex G. Hauptmann.
2000.
Ti-tle generation for spoken broadcast news us-ing a training corpus.
In Proc.
of the 6th In-ternational Conference on Spoken LanguageProcessing (ICSLP), pages 680?683, Beijing,China.Tadashi Kumano and Hideki Tanaka.
1998.Translation examples browser: Japanese toenglish translation aid for news articles.
InProc.
of NLP+IA 98/TAL+AI 98, pages 96?102, Moncton, Canada.Jean-Luc Minel, Sylvaine Nugier, and GeraldPiat.
1997.
How to appreciate the qualityof automatic text summarization?
examplesof fan and mluce potocols and their resultson seraphin.
intelligent scalable text summa-rization.
In Proc.
of 35th Annual Meeting ofthe ACL Workshop Intelligent Scalable TextSummarization, pages 25?30, Madrid, Spain.Satoshi Sato.
1992.
Ctm: An example-basedtranslation aid system.
In Proc.
of COLING1992, pages 23?28, Nantes, France.Yasuko Senda and Yasusi Sinohara.
2002.Analysis of titles and readers for title gen-eration centered on the readers.
In Proc.
ofCOLING 2002, pages 421?424, Taipei, Tai-wan.
