Representing Verbal Semantics with DiagramsAn Adaptation of the UML for Lexical SemanticsAndrea C. SCHALLEYSchool of Languages, Cultures and LinguisticsUniversity of New EnglandArmidale, NSW 2351, Australiaandrea.schalley@une.edu.auAbstractThe paper presents a new way of accounting forthe meaning of verbs in natural languages, usinga diagrammatic notation based on the UnifiedModeling Language (UML).
We will introducethe new framework by outlining some model-ing elements and indicating major differencesto the UML.
An extended example will be dis-cussed in more detail.
We will then focus onthe cognitive background of the framework, andin particular address the question why the usageof graphical elements within a linguistic model-ing language proves to be very fruitful.
Finally,we will briefly indicate the potential of the newframework and its applicability.1 IntroductionToday, the Unified Modeling Language (UML) isaccepted as lingua franca for the design of object-oriented systems, being widely used for softwaredevelopment processes.
Although the UML has alsobeen employed in other fields such as business mod-eling (cf.
the example profile in the UML specifi-cation, Object Management Group 2003), researchin theoretical and computational linguistics has notyet tried to apply a graphical language as rich as theUML.
Such an approach will be advocated in thispaper, focussing on the question how verbal mean-ing is to be represented adequately.
Our answer is anew framework adapted from the UML to model themeaning of verbs, as developed in extenso in Schal-ley (2004).
This framework for linguistic semanticsis called Unied Eventity Representation (UER),because it is a true extension of the UML and notjust a profile.
Living up to its name, the UER triesto unify both intuitivity and formality.
It employsintuitive semantic primes as building blocks and in-cludes these within a framework of specified mod-eling elements.
Semantics and syntax of the mod-eling elements are explicated in the specification ofthe UER, which was done in the style of the UMLspecification.
Being an adaption from the UML, theUER introduces a third formal paradigm of com-puter science into linguistic semantics, one that isneither functional nor logical but object-oriented innature.
This is one of the factors contributing to thecognitive adequacy of the UER.
Since the UER isbased on the UML, it can be easily put to use incomputational linguistics.In Section 2, the UER as adapted from the UMLwill be sketched.
The cognitive relevance of theUER is outlined in Section 3 ?
graphical model-ing elements in general represent prominent kindsof concepts, or, respectively, structural or meta-concepts.
In particular, we will discuss the impor-tance of these graphical modeling elements for thecognitive adequacy of representational frameworkssuch as the UER.
Section 4 finally comprises an out-look, listing some potential areas of application ofthe UER.2 A Diagrammatic Modeling Languagefor Linguistic SemanticsThe UER exhibits a novel use of a diagrammatic no-tation.
But even though it adapts a well-known andwell-elaborated framework used in computer sci-ence, it constitutes not only a new use of the UML?sdiagrammatic notation but is a redesign in order toachieve better cognitive and in particular linguisticadequacy.
In order to get a grasp of the characterof the UER we will indicate some major differencesbetween the UER and the UML and then discussan extended example, modeling two particular con-crete readings of a verb in more detail.The UER?s focus does not rest on computationaladequacy to the same extent as the UML?s does.
Itis not designed to develop software systems, but torepresent meaning.
This objective entails, for exam-ple, that pure software specific modeling elementsare not part of the UER.
Instead, it aims to be closeto conceptualization as revealed in natural language.Nevertheless, the UML has been a perfect startingpoint for the endeavour of developing an adequatemodeling language for verbal semantics, becauseon a coarse level of granularity the UML itself sup-ports cognitive modeling in the sense that it allowsto model software requirements, without going toodeep into implementational issues in the beginning.But why has a new framework been developed ?why has it not been sensible or feasible to establisha UML profile?
We believe that for the purpose ofa linguistic modeling language which is designed torepresent verbal semantics, new modeling elementsare required and therefore new metamodel elementsare inevitable.Roughly, verbs encode events or similar entities,entities that are called eventities within the UER.1That is, the semantics of a verb or, as in most cases,one of its readings, corresponds to the eventity thatis encoded by the verb.2 Then, to represent themeaning is to model the eventity.We believe that eventities are conceptual units inhuman cognition and comprise particular compo-nents that are combined in a particular way.
In orderto model this appropriately, the UER has a graphicalcontainer for eventity concepts: octagons representeventities as such and contain their components in astructured way.
As modeling elements of the UER,they are called eventity frames and model eventi-ties, the specificities of which are graphically con-tained within these diagrammatic elements.
Simi-larly, the components are again diagrammatic ele-ments as long as they represent structural or meta-concepts that hold content.
Here the notions of stateand transition (which are part of the UML), or thenew notion of participant class, which is a modelingelement reminiscent of the UML?s classifier role,could be mentioned.
New modeling elements notbeing part of the UML, such as the eventity frameor participant class, clearly establish an extension ofthe UML.
Therefore, the UER is not a profile of theUML, but a close relative.In addition to defining new modeling elementsfor the UER (and adapting UML ones), the UML?sdivision into different modeling views resulting inseparate diagrams (such as class, statechart, activ-ity, or collaboration diagrams, cf.
Object Manage-ment Group 2003: I?2)3 is given up in the UER.Since both dynamic as well as static aspects are part1 The term ?eventity?
has been adopted from Zaefferer(2002).2 We use the term eventity as a term for a kind or type, not aninstantiation or token.
Hence, ?to wake up?
is an eventity,termed WAKE UP 1 in the following (eventities are usuallynotated with capital letters), whereas ?John wakes up?
is aninstantiation of this eventity.3 Not all parts of the UML are relevant to our endeavour.
Ac-cordingly, non-relevant parts such as use case and imple-mentation diagrams are not included into the specificiationof the UER at all in order not to overload it and to adjust itto our purposes.of an eventity concept (in modeling an eventity onehas to answer the questions what is happening andto whom it is happening), both aspects are modeledwithin one eventity frame and not in several sepa-rate diagrams.
Nevertheless, we take care to distin-guish the aspects within the eventity frame, with thedynamic aspects being graphically contained by theso-called dynamic core, thereby forcing users of theUER to go for clear distinctions.
The integration ofdynamic and static aspects seems to be feasible inthe UER, because ?
differently from software sys-tems ?
we expect eventity concepts not to exceeda particular level of complexity due to an assumedmaximum of complexity applying to any cognitiveunit.
Accordingly, we expect eventity frames toonly come up with straightforward models whichare in general easily manageable.To get a better idea what a model of an eventity,or, respectively, a model of a verb?s reading lookslike, we will discuss two readings of wake up in thefollowing.
Consider the eventity frame representingthe semantics of its non-causative reading in Fig.
1(as in He woke up or in Suddenly Eleni woke up).?intrinsic?
ani : Animacy = animate[[y]] / Patient : Ineventitywake_up_1?do?
?undergo?yAwake?spontaneous?Figure 1: The non-causative reading of wake upThe octagon depicts the eventity that is encodedby the verb and hence represents the conceptual unitcorresponding to the verb?s reading.
Each even-tity frame can have a name shown in the upper leftcorner, in this case the name wake up 1 was se-lected according to the first ?wake up?
eventity, theWAKE UP 1 eventity.
The eventity?s componentsare nested within the octagon.
First of all, partic-ipants of an eventity are rendered as solid-outlinerectangles similar to UML class symbols and areattached to the dynamic core by a dashed line (asin UML collaboration diagrams) that indicates theirstatus as participants, the participate association.
Inthe case of WAKE UP 1, there is only one partici-pant, the undergoer that wakes up and thus enduresthe course of events.4 The participant?s name ex-pression, [[y]], means that y is a representativename for entities that could potentially be partici-pants in the eventity (therefore, a notation reminis-cent of mathematical equivalence class notation hasbeen chosen).The dynamic components of the eventity conceptare contained in the dynamic core itself which is dis-played as a dashed-outlined rectangle with roundedcorners and generally comprises the state machinesof prominent participants.5 For the sake of clarity(and because it is necessary when there is more thanjust one participant), the representative?s name, inthis case y, is cited in the upper left corner of itsstate machine.
y experiences a transition from anunknown source state to the known passive simplestate of being Awake.
In order to undergo a tran-sition into the state of being awake and thus to un-dergo a change of state at all, the undergoer musthave been in a source state differing from the tar-get state.
This is the only information we do have,we do not know whether the undergoer was asleep,dozing or unconcious while in the source state.
Buty must have been in a state which was not the oneof being awake, such that a transition could resultin the state of being awake.
Accordingly, the targetstate is specified, whereas the source state is dis-played as an unspecified source state.
Moreover,there is no reason and thus trigger for the transitionconceptualized, therefore the transition is marked asspontaneous and distinguished from completiontransitions or transitions triggered by signals.y in the dynamic core is a reference to the partici-pant class displayed outside of the dynamic core, inthe static periphery.
The static periphery in generaldepicts the participants, the roles they hold withinthe eventity, and the relationships that hold betweenthem.
In the example modeling in Fig.
1, the un-dergoer y is in fact a patient, i.e., has the role ofundergoing some change of state or condition (andnot only a change of location as a theme, for in-4 The term undergoer ?
as well as its counterpart actor ?are taken from Van Valin and LaPolla (1997: 141?147).5 There are at most two prominent participants in eacheventity, the most active one (the actor, with the stereo-type do attached to its participate association) and themost passive one (the undergoer, with the stereotype un-dergo attached to its participate association).
Only promi-nent participants are assigned their own state machinewithin the dynamic core.stance, would).
This is indicated in the role speci-fication Patientwithin y?s participant class.
Ad-ditionally, in order to be ?wakeable?
(that is to say,to be a potential undergoer of a WAKE UP 1 even-tity), y has to be an animate Ineventity, anon-eventity entity in the UER?s participant ontol-ogy which has the intrinsic property of being ani-mate.
The specification of both an ontological cate-gory as well as a property (technically captured inthe UER in form of a type-expression and an at-tribute) rules out that SLEEP, as an eventity, or astone, as an inanimate ineventity, could be potentialundergoers of the WAKE UP 1 eventity.
In otherwords, the participant class specification works likea filter on the set of all entities, ruling out those en-tities which cannot be participants of the eventity inquestion because they do not fulfil the required char-acteristics.
This is important in describing verbalsemantics because it is an essential part of a verb?ssemantics which selectional restrictions apply.The first, non-causative reading of wake upis simple in the sense that only one participantis involved.
Turning to the causative reading,WAKE UP 2 (as in He woke me up or The stormwoke him up), the modeling in Fig.
2 becomes morecomplex: there are two interacting participants,both of which are prominent participants ?
theyare both assigned their own state machine, each ofwhich is depicted in a swimlane in the dynamic core(the two swimlanes are divided by a solid verticalswimlane border).?do?
?undergo?yx[[x]] / Instigator : Entity ?intrinsic?
ani : Animacy = animate[[y]] / Patient : Ineventitywake_up_2/ Agent / EffectorcausecauseAwakeFigure 2: The causative reading of wake upThe undergoer y essentially endures the samecourse of events, although this time the transitionhas a trigger in that it is caused by the active insti-gator, the actor.
That is, the transition is triggeredby a cause signal, the receipt of which is renderedin the concave pentagon in y?s swimlane.
The sig-nal is sent from the actor x, with the signal sendingbeing represented in x?s swimlane as convex pen-tagon.
The signal sending is the result of an un-specified action state.
In other words, the actor per-forms some action (where action is broadly under-stood and does not necessarily entail intention), thenature of which is not conceptualized and irrelevant,thus leaving the specifics of the action state irrele-vant (which is indicated by the underscore).
All thatis important is that there is some ?action?
by x in-volved so that x wakes y up.6In the case of the actor?s specification in the staticperiphery, there are not many restrictions.
The actoris primarily an entity that instigates the transition.The italicized role description pays tribute to thefact that natural languages distinguish between vo-litional and involitional instigators.
Instigator is anabstract role description, meaning that it cannot bedirectly instantiated but only by its children (we em-ploy the object-orientational concept of inheritanceat this point), namely Agent (volitional instigator)or Effector (involitional instigator).
Althoughin English users are not forced to decide whetherthey are conceptualizing an agent or an effector, inHare, for example, an Athapascan language spo-ken in Canada, users have to mark agents differ-ently than effectors (cf.
Frawley 1992: 207).
Thus,Hare forces its users to definitely make a decisionwhether it is an agent or an effector they are talkingabout.
If the model was a modeling of Hare (andnot English as it is), we would add the constraint{disjoint} to the inheritance relations in orderto indicate that the actor can be either an agent oran effector, but not both at the same time.
This way,natural language specificities come into the models.3 Cognitive Relevance of DiagrammaticModeling ElementsWe trust that the above illustrations suffice to givean impression what UER diagrams entail, althoughthere are details of the diagrams that have not beenexplained.
But in exactly what way does such agraphical representation as in Fig.
2 differ from aWunderlich-style decomposition as in (1) (cf.
alsoWunderlich 1996, 1997)?
(1) CAUSE (x, BECOME (AWAKE(y)))(s)6 Action states are rendered with convex arcs on bothsides, whereas passive states are shown as rectangles withrounded corners.Essentially, the same information concerning dy-namic structuring seems to be included in (1): thereis an xwhich causes that y becomes awake.
But ob-viously necessary information about the participantsis not included.
Of course, one could add this infor-mation as in (2) (in this case, the decomposition isnot within Wunderlich?s framework any more).
(2) (AGENT(x)?EFFECTOR(x))?PATIENT(y)?ANIMATE(y)?INEVENTITY(x)?
INEVENTITY(y)?CAUSE (x, BECOME (AWAKE(y)))(s)Comparing (2) to Fig.
2, the diagrammatic represen-tation is to be preferred for several reasons, one ofthese being the intuitivity that is brought forwardin the graphical structure: those modeling elementsthat are cognitively connected are graphically con-nected via connectors, containment resp.
nesting, orvisual attachments.
That is, the cognitive structur-ing is reflected in the diagrammatic representationin a straightforward way, which is not the case in thelinearized representation in (2).
Moreover, the ex-plicit partition of static and dynamic aspects withinone eventity frame as well as the specified syntax ofthe modeling elements facilitates not only the un-derstanding of the representation, but at the sametime forces users of the UER to make sure theyproduce sound diagrams.
That entails reflecting onwhat exactly causes, for instance, the undergoer?stransition in WAKE UP 2.
In (1) and (2) it is x as aparticipant that directly causes the transition, whilein Fig.
2 it is some action of x that causes the tran-sition.
The latter is more appropriate and also sup-ported by speakers?
intuition and conceptualization?
something has, in a very broad sense, to ?happen?
(even if it was pure presence) in order to cause atransition.7 To represent that ?something?, a featurehas been included into the UER that is not part ofthe UML, namely unspecified elements (generallyrendered with underscores in the name slot).
Theseare elements where only the graphical ?
and thuscognitive ?
structure is present (such as the actionstate in the actor?s swimlane in Fig.
2), but no con-tent of the structure is given.
That is, the exact con-cept is irrelevant and underspecified, the only thingthat matters is structure: in Fig.
2 it is merely con-ceptualized that some kind of action takes place, but7 This is also supported by the fact that (a) is fine, but (b) isnot:(a) The ball broke the window.
(b) *The window broke as a result of the ball.In other words, explication (b) would need some action ofthe ball to be specified in order to be sound, such as in (c):(c) The window broke as a result of the ball?s rolling into it.the specifics of the action are not specified.
Sincethe UER aims at representing cognitive structures,this is a sensible feature ?
which it would not bewithin the UML, of course, as the UML has to headtowards determinism, being a computational mod-eling language.The general layout of both the UML and the UERas graphical languages supports cognitive adequacy.In graphical languages such as the UML and theUER, prominent structural concepts can be distin-guished by non-textual symbols, namely their cor-responding graphical modeling elements.
Exam-ples in the UER we have seen are the octagon foreventities, the rectangle for participants, and therectangle with rounded corners for passive simplestates.
In other words, the structure is passed oninto the graphical-visual domain, whereas the con-tents are kept in linearized form.
Representationallanguages in linguistic semantics to date only rarelydistinguish in their formalizations between struc-tural meta-concepts, such as the ones mentionedabove, e.g., or state and transition, and the con-cepts themselves, such as the state of being Awake.Meta-concepts exist at the most implicitly in thearity of predicates, in particular predicate names(where the reader has to know that BECOME, forexample, represents a transitional concept), or infixed combinations of predicates.
Although meta-concepts are extensively discussed in the literature(cf.
the discussions about Aktionsarten), it is nottaken care to explicate them in a distinct way and todistinguish them from specified concepts, i.e.
theircontents.The UER is the first linguistic representa-tional framework that explicitly accounts for meta-concepts, rendering them graphically and thus fun-damentally different from their contents, and dis-playing different structural concepts with visuallydifferent modeling elements.
That way, an intuitiveline is drawn that divides these two levels of rep-resentation, that divides the specified concepts em-bedded in a structure from the structure itself.
Thedistinction between structural concepts and ?filled?concepts is in our eyes a very vital one not onlyin terms of modeling precision ?
users have toclearly distinguish these levels of representation ?but also in terms of cognitive adequacy and univer-sality.
We believe that structural meta-concepts areuniversal due to them being based on human expe-riences, and that they are in principle stable.
Thisdoes most certainly not apply in this generality tocontents, although one might assume a very funda-mental shared knowledge across cultures and thuslanguages.Hence, in fixing the meta-concepts but not theircontents, the UER is a modeling language that canreadily accommodate different linguistic facts andallows for adequate recording of language speci-ficity due to its flexibility concerning the ?filling?
ofthe meta-concept.
Since it moreover includes theUML?s extension mechanisms such as constraintsand stereotypes, it can even be more easily adaptedto modeling needs ?
modeling elements and thuscognitive components can, if necessary, be adjusted.The degree of granularity of a representation andthus the understanding of what is primitive within amodeling can be aligned to the modeling purposes.It is our hope that the UER is a modeling languagethat can be universally applied to model verbal se-mantics because of its general flexibility, no matterwhat natural language?s verbal system is describedand what granularity is needed for the semantic de-scriptions.4 Applicability in Linguistic ResearchThis last section is devoted to an outlook on whatthe UER should be able to do and where poten-tial applications of this new modeling language canpossibly be found.
Within linguistic semantics, theUER is expected to facilitate and enhance research.First of all, as has already been indicated, it forcessemanticists to reflect on their representations, inparticular on the structure they model and on whatthey consider to be primitive components withintheir endeavour.
The syntax of the UER has beenspecified with the aim to allow sensible linguisticmodeling; ensuring that diagrams are syntacticallycorrect (that is, conform to the specification) will beof invaluable help in semantic work, and the designof the UER allows, as has been argued, to achievecognitive adequacy more easily than other rigorouslinguistic frameworks do.
Secondly, the UER sup-plies mechanisms to capture any potential compo-nent of verbal semantics, thus allowing for compre-hensive modeling.
Thirdly, case studies applyingthe UER framework have shown a strong potentialof the UER in capturing structural relations betweendifferent readings of one lexical item and also be-tween different lexical items.
In other words, theUER is a practical tool for the study of semantic re-lationships.In the study of polysemy, that is, the study of lex-ical items (elements of our lexicon) and their differ-ent readings shared on systematic grounds, expli-cating the different readings in the UER allows topin down the systematic changes from one readingto another (cf., for instance, Chapter 9 in Schalley2004).
A comparison of UER diagrams and intu-itions of native speakers in cases of polysemy hasshown a thrilling interconnection.
The closer themodeling of the different readings were structurallyto each other, the surer were native speakers intu-itively that the readings in questions were instancesof polysemy.
On the other hand, it seems as if atleast a major change affecting one of the graphi-cal modeling elements has to occur ?
such as thegain of a participant (cf.
the two readings of wakeup as modeled in Fig.
1 and 2) ?
in order for na-tive speakers to readily identify different readingsof a lexical item and not to consider instances ofboth readings to be instantiations of only one read-ing used in different contexts.Taking the distinction between structure and con-tent into account, the UER offers a new perspectiveon decompositional semantics.
In eliminating allcontent within modeled readings and just keepingthe graphical structure, one can ask what changesthe remaining structures can undergo and whetherone finds instances of such changes in the seman-tics of natural languages.
This enables scholars tosystematically study not only polysemy, but also se-mantic change and verb classification, and to deter-mine where irregularities in meaning structures ofnatural languages are to be found.
Moreover, al-ternations such as causativation or resultatives canbe systematically captured and studied within theUER.In addition, it might be interesting to ask whatdegree of complexity eventity structures can maxi-mally obtain while still being lexicalized in a singleverb.
In other words: what are possible verbs?
Thiscan be investigated within the UER framework, be-cause the UER in principle allows for the modelingof eventities which are too complex to be coded in asingle verb.
For instance, one would expect that, ifthere are two prominent participants involved (i.e.,actor and undergoer), there has to be some inter-action between the participants, some causation totake place in order for the modeled eventity to belexicalized.
A verb expressing that something be-comes liquid and another something becomes fullat the same time is not likely to exist (also cf.
Kauf-mann 1995: 198f.).
Systematic analysis applyingthe UER can show which structures are most likelyruled out because they do not constitute a cognitiveunit, with the missing unity showing up in uncon-nected swimlanes within the dynamic core, for in-stance.There are, due to the proximity of the UER tothe UML, not only theoretical linguistic, but natu-rally computational linguistic applications that sug-gest themselves.
For example, the usefulness ofUER structures for machine translation could be ex-plored.
Pattern matching could be applied to UERdiagrams.
Having the semantics of a verb in thesource language captured in a diagram, one couldask which verb and thus which representation dia-gram in the target language would be most appro-priate for the translation.8 This should be the verbthe representation of which comes ?closest?
to themodeled one in the source language.
Evidently, cri-teria for what is considered to be ?closest?
wouldhave to be identified.Apart from progress in scientific discovery, theUER as a UML-based modeling language is a newmodeling language that allows for envisaging ap-plications also in speech processing systems, forexample.
The UER is a rigorous, but cognitivelyoriented, non-iconic, but intuitive decompositionalmodeling language both suitable for human andcomputational usage.
We hope that the UER will betested extensively and applied to different researchareas within theoretical and computational linguis-tics.
Since it is a rather new modeling language, itstesting is just about to begin, but we are confidentthat the UER will prove very fruitful for many re-search enterprises.ReferencesWilliam Frawley 1992.
Linguistic Semantics.
Hills-dale: Lawrence Erlbaum.Ingrid Kaufmann 1995.
Konzeptuelle Grundla-gen semantischer Dekompositionsstrukturen.
DieKombinatorik lokaler Verben und pr?adikativerKomplemente.
(Linguistische Arbeiten 335.
)Tu?bingen: Niemeyer.Object Management Group 2003.
OMG UniedModeling Language Specication.
Version 1.5.Andrea C. Schalley 2004.
Cognitive Modeling andVerbal Semantics.
A Representational Frame-work Based on UML.
(Trends in Linguistics.Studies and Monographs 154.)
Berlin/New York:Mouton de Gruyter.Robert D. Van Valin and Randy J. LaPolla 1997.Syntax: Structure, Meaning and Function.
(Cam-bridge Textbooks in Linguistics.)
Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.Dieter Wunderlich 1996.
Models of lexical de-composition.
Lexical Structures and LanguageUse.
Proceedings of the International Confer-ence on Lexicology and Lexical Semantics, ed.8 This is of course a simplification of the translation prob-lem, because idiomatic constructions and syntactic environ-ments are, for instance, not taken into account ?
or onewould have to model them within the UER as well.Edda Weigand and Franz Hundsnurscher.
Tu?bin-gen: Niemeyer, 169?183.Dieter Wunderlich 1997.
Cause and the structure ofverbs.
Linguistic Inquiry 28(1):27?68.Dietmar Zaefferer 2002.
Polysemy, polyvalency,and linking mismatches.
The concept of rain andits codings in English, German, Spanish, and Ital-ian.
DELTA ?
Documentac?
?ao de Estudos emLing?u?stica T?eorica e Aplicada 18(spe.
):27?56.
