Thai Spelling Recognition Using a Continuous Speech CorpusChutima PisarnSirindhorn International Institute of Technology131 Moo 5 Tiwanont Rd., Bangkadi,Muang, Phathumthani, Thailand, 12000chutimap@siit.tu.ac.thThanaruk TheeramunkongSirindhorn International Institute of Technology131 Moo 5 Tiwanont Rd., Bangkadi,Muang, Phathumthani, Thailand, 12000thanaruk@siit.tu.ac.thAbstractSpelling recognition is an approach to enhance aspeech recognizer?s ability to cope with incorrectlyrecognized words and out-of-vocabulary words.This paper presents a general framework for Thaispeech recognition enhanced with spellingrecognition.
In order to implement Thai spellingrecognition, Thai alphabets and their spellingmethods are analyzed.
Based on hidden Markovmodels, we propose a method to construct a Thaispelling recognition system by using an existingcontinuous speech corpus.
To compensate thedifference between spelling utterances andcontinuous speech utterances, the adjustment ofutterance speed is taken into account.
Assigningdifferent numbers of states for syllables withdifferent durations is helpful to improve therecognition accuracy.
Our system achieves up to79.38% accuracy.1 IntroductionNowadays, several works on automatic speechrecognition (ASR) for continuous speech are beingdeveloped, not only system that rely on dictionary,but also the recognition on out of vocabularycircumstances.
In a situation of misrecognition andout-of-vocabulary words, a practical and efficientsolution that would assist the ASR is to equip thesystem with a spelling recognition subsystem,where users can spell out a word letter by letter.Spelling recognition is a challenging task with ahigh interest for directory assistance sevices, orother applications where a large number of propernames or addresses are handled.
Many works thatfocus on spelling recognition were widelydeveloped in several languages, for instance,English, Spanish, Portuguese and German.
In (San-Segundo et al, 2001) the hypothesis-verificationSpanish continuous spelled proper namerecognition over the telephone was proposed.
Inthis work, several feature sets were investigated byusing models of neural networks.
In theirsucceeding work (San-Segundo et al, 2002), threedifferent recognition architectures, including thetwo-level architecture, the integrated architectureand the hypothesis-verification architecture, areanalyzed and compared.
In (Rodrigues et al,1997), a Portuguese speaker -independent systemfor recognizing an isolated letter was introduced.The system dealt with speech utterances over atelephone line using Hidden Markov Model(HMM).
A number of experiments were made overfour different perplexity language models.
Mitchelland Setlur (1999) proposed a fast list matcher toselect a name from a name list that was createdfrom an n-best letter recognizer on spelling over atelephone line recognition task.
In (Bauer andJunkawitsch, 1999), an approach is proposed tocombine word recognition with spellingrecognition in a user-friendly manner as a fall backstrategy.
As a German city name recognizer, thesystem was applied to directory assistanceservices.Unlike other languages, spelling in Thai hasseveral styles.
One of them is similar to spelling inEnglish, i.e., /d-ii//z-oo//g-ii/ for ?dog?.
There arethree more methods in Thai spelling, where somesyllables are inserted to make it clearer for thehearer.
One is to spell out a letter followed by itsrepresentative word?s utterance.
Another way is tomix the former two types.
The third method is tospell out a set of letters that form a syllable,followed by its corresponding utterance.
So farspelling recognition for Thai language has not beenexplored yet.
One of the main reasons is that thereis no standard corpus for this purpose.
Creating acorpus of spelled utterances is a time comsumingtask.
In this work we use the NECTEC-ATR ThaiSpeech Corpus, a standard continuous Thai speechcorpus, for our spelling recognition system.Another objective of this work is to examine how aspelling system can be implemented using anormal Thai continuous speech corpus.
That is, asthe preliminary stage, we investigate the effects ofspelling using such existing corpus.This paper is organized as follows.
In section 2,language characteristics in Thai are introduced.Section 3 presents our recognition framework.
Thespelling styles for Thai words are discussed insection 4.
The experimental results and analysis areshown in section 5.
Finally, the conclusion andfuture works are given in section 6.2 Thai Language CharacteristicsIn this section, Thai alphabets, phonetic symbolsand the phone components of Thai syllable aredescribed.2.1 Thai AlphabetsTheoritically, Thai language has totally 69alphabets which can be basically grouped intothree classes of phone expression; consonant,vowel and tone.
There are 44, 21, and 4 alphabetsfor consonants, vowels, and tones, repectively.Some Thai consonant alphabets share the samephonetic sounds.
There are only 21 phones forThai consonants.
Since some vowels can becombined with others, there are possible 32phones.
However, in practical spelling manner,only 18 alphabets in the vowel class are mostlyused.
There are 5 tones in Thai, including onewithout an alphabet.
In conclusion, there are totally66 alphabets actually used.
They are shown inTable 1.Basic Classes  Alphabets in each classConsonant ?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?,?Vowel ?
?, ?, ?
?, ?, ?
?, ?
?, ?
?, ?
?, ?
?, ?
?, ?, ?, ?, ??
?, ?,?, ?, ?
?Tone ?
?, ?
?, ?
?, ?
?Table 1.
Thai Alphabets: Consonants, Vowelsand Tones.2.2 Thai Syllable Characteristics andPhonetic RepresentationInitialConsonantVowelFinalConsonantTone(Ci) (V) (Cf) (T)p,pr,phr,pl,phl,t,tr,thr,c,kr,khr,k,z,ph,th,ch,k,kl,khl,kw,khw,h,b,br,bl,d,dr,m,n,ng,r,f,fr,fl,s,h,w,ja,aa,i,ii,v,vv,u,uu,e,ee,x,xx,o,oo,@,@@,q,qq,ia,iia,va,vva,ua,uuap^,t^,k^,n^,m^,ng^,j^,w^,f^,l^,s^,ch^,jf^,ts^0,1,2,3,4Table 2.
Phonetic Symbols Grouped as InitialConsonants, Vowels, Final Consonants and Tones.In Thai language, a syllable can be separated intothree parts; (1) initial consonant, (2) vowel and (3)final consonant.
The phonetic representation of onesyllable can be expressed in the form of /Ci-VT-Cf/,where Ci is an initial consonant, V is a vowel, Cf  isa final consonant and T is a tone which isphonetically attached to the vowel part.
Followingthe concept in (Pisarn and Theeramunkong, 2003)there are 76 phonetic symbols and 5 tone symbolsapplied in this work as shown in Table 2.3 Our FrameworkThe recognition framework illustrated in Figure 1presents our overall framework designed for Thaicontinuous speech recognition system thatincorporates a conventional recognizer with aspelling recognition subsystem.
The whole processcan be divided into two modules; (1) trainingmodule and (2) recognition module.SpeechCorpusSignalProcessingText CorpusGeneralPronunc.
Dict.Acoustic ModelfsConventionalSpeechRecognizerNewUtterancesSpellingRecognizerSpelledutteranceThe hypothesesAcceptable?SignalProcessingSpeaker spellthe wordRecognitionResultYesLanguage Modelw1 w2 w3w4w6 w7Proper  NameCorpusLanguage ModelL1 L2 L3L4L6 L7AlphabetPronunc.
Dict.SpellingResultNoTRAINING MODULERECOGNITIONMODULEFigure 1.
The Recognition FrameworkIn the training module, waveforms of continuousspeech utterances in a corpus are transformed tofeature vectors by using a signal quantizationtechnique.
The derived feature vectors are used fortraining a set of acoustic models.
In the system,two language models are equiped; one stands fortraditional word recognition, whereas the other oneis used for spelling recognition.
The traditionallanguage model is trained by transcriptions in thetext corpus, while the spelling language model istrained by sequences of letters in a proper namecorpus.In the recognition module, the two well-trainedmodels; the acoustic model and the traditionallanguage model, together with a pronunciationdictionary are applied to recognize a newutterance, yeilding a set of hypothesis results.
Thehypotheses are then verified whether it is valid ornot.
If it is not, the system will turn to the spellingrecognition subsystem.At this stage, the user is asked to spell the wordletter-by-letter.
The utterance of spelling is thenfed to the signal-processing module for convertingthe waveform to feature vectors.
In this work, asour preliminary stage, we used the acoustic modelstrained by normal continuous speech utterancesbecause of a lacking spelling corpus.
Working withwell-trained spelling language model andalphabetic pronunciation dictionary, the spellingresults could be obtained.4 Spelling Style for Thai Word4.1 Basic Pronunciation of Thai AlphabetsAs refered in section 2.1, there are three basicclasses of Thai alphabets.
Pronouncing Thaialphabets in different classes has different styles.The consonant class alphabets can be uttered ineither of the following two styles.
The first style issimply pronouncing the core sound of a consonant.For example, the alphabet ??
?, its core sound can berepresented as the syllable phonetic /k-@@0/.Normally, some consonants share a same coresound, for instance ??
?, ??
?, ???
have the samephonetic /kh-@@0/.
In such case, the hearer mayencounter an alphabet ambiguity.
To solve thisissue, the second style is generally applied byuttering a core sound of the consonant followed bythe representative word of that consonant.
Everyconsonant has its representative word.
Forexample, the representative word of ???
is ?????
(chicken), with the phonetic sound /k-a1-j^/, andthat of  ???
is ?????
(egg, /kh-a1-j^/).
To express thealphabet ???
using this style, the sound /k-@@0/+/k-a1-j^/ is uttered.Expressing alphabets in the vowel class is quitedifferent to that of the consonant class.
There aretwo types of vowels.
The first-type of vowels canbe pronounced in two ways.
One is to pronouncethe word ?????
(meaning: ?vowel?, sound: /s-a1//r-a1/), followed by the core sound of the vowel.
Theother is to pronounce by simply pronouncing thecore sound of the vowel.
The second-type ofvowels are uttered by calling their names.
Thevowel alphabets of each type are listed in Table 3.As the last class, tone symbols can be pronouncedby calling their names.Type VowelsThe first-type   ?,  ?, ?
?, ?
?, ?
?, ?
?, ?
?, ?
?, ?, ?, ?, ??
?, ?.
?The second-type ?
?, ?
?, ?
?, ?Table 3.
Two Types of Vowels4.2 Thai Word Spelling MethodsSpelling out a word is the way to utter eachalphabet in the word in order.
It refers tocombinations of the pronunciation style of eachalphabet in the word.
Only the four Thai mostcommonly used spelling methods have beenaddressed.
For all methods, the second-type vowelsand tones are pronounced by calling their names.The differences are taken place in spellingconsonants and the first-type vowels.
For the firstspelling method, the consonants are spelled out byusing only their core sounds, and the first-typevowels are pronounced by their core sound withoutthe word ?????
(/s-a1//r-a1/).
This spelling methodis similar to the spelling approach in Englishlanguage.In the second method, the representative word ofeach consonant is pronounced followed by its coresound while pronounce a first-type vowel is toutter the word ?????
and then its core sound.
In thethird method, the way to pronounce a consonantand vowel are varied.
For instance, the word canbe spelled a consonant by using only core soundtogether with a vowel beginning with the word?????.
The last method is to spell out a set of lettersthat form a syllable and then followed by itscorresponding utterances.
The spelling sequence ofalphabets in each syllable starts with initialconsonant, vowel, and followed by final consonant(if any) and tone (if any), and then, the sound ofthat syllable is inserted at the end of the sequence.The examples of these methods in spelling theword ???????
are depicted in Figure 2.?
?
?
?
?/s-@@4/ /ng-@@0/ /h-@@4/Core-Sound: /z-ii1/Calling by name /k-aa0//r-a0-n^/Basic Class: Consonant Consonant ConsonantVowel VowelRepresentative word /s-vva4/ /ng-uu0/ /h-ii1-p^/?Vowel?
/s-a1//r-a1/Sequence of word??????
?/s-@@4/ /ng-@@0/ /h-@@4//z-ii1/ /k-aa0//r-a0-n^/1 st Method:2 nd  Method:3 rd Method: /s-@@4/ /ng-@@0/ /h-@@4/ /k-aa0//r-a0-n^//z-ii1//s-a1//r-a1//k-aa0//r-a0-n^//s-@@4//s-vva4//ng-@@0//ng-uu0//h-@@4//h-ii1-p^//z-ii1//s-a1//r-a1//s-@@4/ /ng-@@0/ /h-@@4//z-ii1/ /k-aa0//r-a0-n^/4 th Method: /s-ii4-ng^/Figure 2.
Four spelling methods for the word??????
?In this paper, we concentrate on the secondmethod as the first step, since this is the mostpopular spelling method in Thai language.5 Experimental Results and Analysis5.1 Experimental EnvironmentAs mentioned above, the corpus for a spellingrecognition task is unfortunately not available atthis time.
Therefore, this work applies theNECTEC-ATR Thai Speech Corpus, constructedby NECTEC (National Electronics and ComputerTechnology Center) incorporated with ATRSpoken Language Translation Laboratories.
InThai language speech recognition, this corpus isnormally used for a continuous speech recognitiontask.
This speech corpus is used as the training setfor our spelling recognition system.
The corpuscontains 390 sentences gathered by assigning 42speakers (21 males and 21 females) to read allsentences for a trail.
So, there are totally 16,380read utterances.In the first place, by the reason of computationtime, only utterances of 5 males and 5 females, areused, i.e., totally 3,900 trained utterances.
Inaddition, as our preliminary work, the effects ofspelling result with a normal continuous trainingcorpus are investigated.
Even though, the trainingcorpus has quite different characteristics comparedto the test utterances, we can expect a reasonableresult.
The test utterance is constructed byrecording the spelling of 136 proper names by afemale participant.The speech signals were digitized by 16-bit A/Dconverter of 16 kHz.
A feature vector used in ourexperiment is a 39-feature vector, consists of 12PLP coefficients and the 0th coefficient, as well astheir first and second order derivatives.
Therefore,there are totally 39 elements.The language model used in this task is a bigramlanguage model, trained from totally 6,107 propernames, i.e., 5,971 Thai province, district andsubdistrict names, as well as 136 proper namesfrom the test transcription.A phone-based HMM is applied as therecognition system.
The acoustic units used in thisexperiment are defined in the same manner as in(Pisarn and Theeramunkong, 2003).
Allexperiments, including automatic transcriptionlabelling, are performed using HTK toolkit (Younget al, 2002).
The word correctness is given by thepercentage of numbers of correct words divided bytotal number of words and the accuracy iscomputed by the percentage of subtracted thenumbers of correct words by the number ofinsertion errors, which are then divided by totalnumber of words.5.2 Setting a BaselineIn the first experiment, we investigate the spellingresults using the original training and testing dataas they are.
This will be a baseline for all of ourexperiment.
In this initial stage, the context-independent method (CI), achieves 79.94 and57.99 for correctness and accuracy, respectively.The system with context-dependent method (CD)gains 70.80 and 46.09 for correctness and accuracyrespectively.
In principle, low accuracy is triggeredby a large number of insertion errors.
Because ofthis figure, two possible assumptions can be made(1) there is in compatible duration between thetraining and the test set, and (2) Our HMM modelsare inappropriate.5.3 Adjusting the DurationTo investigate the results of the first assumption,the utterance speed of the utterances from thetraining and testing are measured in the form of thenumber of phone per second.
The speed can becomputed by dividing the number of total phonesin each utterance transcription by its utterancesduration in seconds.
As a result, the averageutterance speed of the training set is 11.7phones/sec while the average utterance speed ofthe test set is only 4.6 phones/sec.
This indicatesthat the speed of test utterances are approximately2.5 times slower than that of train utteraces.
Thisdifference may cause low accuracy.To compensate for this duration differenceamong the training utterance and the testingutterance, a method to shrink and stretch a speechsignal, by preserving pitch and auditory features ofthe original signal, is applied in our signalpreprocessing.
The experiments are done in twoenvironments; stretching the training utterancesand shrinking the test utterences.
By adjusting theduration of the training and testing utterances,insertion errors could be reduced.
Stretching thetraining utterances and shrinking the test utterancesare performed using various scale factors in orderto investigate the effectiveness.
Table 4 shows therecognition results of stretched training utteranceswith various scale factors.
Here, the original testutterances are used.Duration Model %Correct AccuracyCI 81.91 62.49 1.25Train CD 82.05 66.36CI 85.43 68.54 1.43Train CD 85.86 70.09CI 86.42 63.34 1.67Train CD 84.59 63.97Table 4.
Recognition Results of StretchedTraining Utterances with Various Scale Factors.In principle, stretching training utterances causesthe original utterances to be distorted.
The morescale the utterances are stretched, the more distoredthe utterances we obtain.
As stated in the previoussection, utterances training are approximately 2.5times faster than the test utterances.
However, theyare expected to achieve a very low accuracy.
Theexperimental results show that by adjustingtraining utterances 1.43 times slower than theoriginal one (1.43Train) can improve thecorrectness to 85.86 % and the accuracy to 70.09%in a context-dependent method.
But with morestretching, the accuracy drops to 63.97%.Reversely we also examine the system accuracywhen the test utterances are shrinked on variousscale factors.
The original training utterances areused for training our system.
The recognitionresults are shown in Table 5.Duration Model %Correct AccuracyCI 86.28 74.88 0.71Test CD 82.41 73.12CI 82.97 77.34 0.43Test CD 80.93 75.93Table 5.
Recognition Results of Shrinked TestUtterances with Various Scale Factors.Shrinking test utterances can improve accuracy.Especially, the test utterances with 0.43 scalingfactor can reduce the accuracy error to 19.35%,from 57.99% to 77.34%.No.ofstatesModel %Correct AccuracyCI 82.97 77.34 3 CD 80.93 75.93CI 80.01 76.78 4 CD 79.73 76.85CI 80.79 79.38 5 CD 79.31 78.25CI 78.04 76.99 6 CD 76.92 76.21Table 6.
Recognition Accuracy with VariousNumbers of States for a Long Vowel Phoneme.5.4 Acoustic Models with DifferentNumbers of StatesIn fact, phone durations of each phoneme in Thailanguage do not have the same duration.
Especiallyin the vowel class, there are vowels pairs, whereone has a longer phone while the other has ashorter phone.
For example, the vowel pair, a andaa, have a similar phone but different durations.The phoneme a has a shorter duration than thephoneme aa.
The other vowel pairs are i-ii, v-vv, u-uu, e-ee, x-xx, o-oo, @-@@, q-qq, ia-iia, va-vva,and ua-uua.
The shorter phone should not have thesame number of state as the longer one.
Therefore,we examined the recognition rate on differentnumbers of HMM states.
The experiment isexamined using the 0.43Test set since it is the bestone in the previous experiment.
The results areshown in Table 6.
In this experiment, the numberof states for a long vowel phoneme is varied from3 to 6 states.
However, the numbers of states forthe other phonemes are set to 3 states.Table 6 shows that a 5-state HMM for a longvewel phoneme and a 3-state HMM for the otherphonemes achieve the highest recognitionaccuracy, i.e., 79.38.
This is, 2.04% error ratereduction compared with the 3-state HMM.6 ConclusionIn this paper, we present a general framework forThai speech recognition enhanced with spellingrecognition.
Four styles for spelling Thai wordswere discussed.
To recognize spelling utterances,HMMs were constructed using a continuousspeech corpus.
To achieve higher correctness andaccuracy, we compensated the utterance speedamong the training and test utterances bystretching the training utterances or shrinking thetest utterances.
The experimental results indicatedpromising performance of 79.38% recognitionaccuracy after this adjustment.
With a good scalingfactor, the system achieved 19.35% improvementcompared with the baseline where the training andtest utterances were used as they are.
Assigning alarger number of states to a longer syllable (i.e.,long vowel) could improve recognition accuracyby 2.04 %.
Our further works include (1) toconstruct a system that deals with several kinds ofspelling methods, and (2) to explore theincorporation of spelling recognition into theconventional speech recognition system.AcknowledgementsThe authors would like to thank NationalElectronics and Computer Technology Center(NECTEC) for allowing us to use the NECTEC-ATR Thai Speech Corpus.
We also would like tothank Dr. Virach Sornlertlamvanich for his usefulsuggestions through this work.
This work haspartly been supported by NECTEC under projectnumber NT-B-22-I5-38-47-04.ReferencesA.
Anastasakos, R. Schwartz and H. Shu.
1995.?Duration Modeling in Large VocabularySpeech Recognition?.
In, ?Proceedings of IEEEInternational Conference on Acoustics, Speech,and Signal Processing?, pages 628-631.Carl D. Mitchell and Anand R. Setlur.
1999.Improved Spelling Recognition using a Tree-based Fast Lexical Match.
In ?Proceedings ofIEEE International Conference on Acoustics,Speech, and Signal Processing?, volume2,  pages597-600.Chutima Pisarn and Thanaruk Theeramunkong.2003.
Incorporating Tone Information toImprove Thai Continuous Speech Recognition.
In?Proceedings of International Conference onIntelligent Technologies 2003?.Daniel Jurafsky and James H. Martin.
2000.Speech and Language Processing: AnIntroduction to Natural Language Processing,Computational Linguistics, and SpeechRecognition.
Prentice Hall.Frederico Rodrigues, Richardo Rodrigues and CiroMartins.
1997.
An Isolated Letter Recognizer forProper Name Identification Over the Telephone.In ?Proceedings of 9th Portuguese Conferenceon Pattern Recognition (RECPAD?97)?,Coimbra.Josef G. Bauer and Jochen Junkawitsch.
1999.Accurate recognition of city names with spellingas a fall back strategy.
In ?Proceedings ofEUROSPEECH 1999?, pages 263-266.Martin Betz and Hermann Hild.
1995.
LanguageModels for a Spelled Letter Recognizer.
In?Proceedings of IEEE International Conferenceon Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing?.Pages 856-859.Nattakorn Thubthong and Boonserm Kijsirikul.2001.
Tone Recognition of Continuous ThaiSpeech under Tonal Assimilation andDeclination Effects using Half-Tone Model.Journal of International of Uncertainty,Fuzziness and Knowledge-Based System,9(6):815-825.Ruben San-Segundo, J. Macias-Guarasa, J.Ferreiros, P. Martin and J.M.
Pardo.
2001.Detection of Recognition Errors and Out of theSpelling Dictionary Names in a Spelled NameRecognizer for Spanish.
In ?Proceedings ofEUROSPEECH 2001?, Aalborg (Dinamarca).Ruben San-Segundo, Jose Colas, Ricardo deCordoba and Jose M. Pardo 2002.
SpanishRecognizer of Continuously Spelled NamesOver the Telephone.
Journal of SpeechCommunication, volume 38,  pp.287-303.Steve Young, Gunnar Evermann, Thomas Hain,Dan Kershaw, Gareth Moore, Julian Odell, DaveOllason, Dan Povey, Valtcho Valtchev, and PhilWoodland.
2002.
The HTK Book (for HTKVersion 3.2.1).
Cambride University EngineeringDepartment.W.Verhelst and M.Roelands.
1993.
An overlap-add technique based on waveform similarit(wsola) for high quality time-scale modificationof speech.
In ?Proceedings of IEEE InternationalConference on Acoustics, Speech, and SignalProcessing?, volume 2, pages 554-557,Minneapolis, Minnesota.
