Creative Discovery in Lexical OntologiesTony VEALEDept.
of Computer ScienceBelfield,Dublin, Ireland, D4Tony.Veale@UCD.ieNuno SECO, Jer HAYESDept.
of Computer ScienceBelfield,Dublin, Ireland, D4{nuno.seco, jer.hayes}@UCD.ieAbstractCompound terms play a surprisingly key rolein the organization of lexical ontologies.However, their inclusion forces one to addressthe issues of completeness and consistencythat naturally arise from this organizationalrole.
In this paper we show how creativeexploration in the space of literal compoundscan reveal not only additional compoundterms to systematically balance an ontology,but can also discover new and potentiallyinnovative concepts in their own right.1 IntroductionBroad-coverage lexical knowledge-bases likeWordNet (Miller et al, 1990) generally contain alarge number of compound terms, many of whichare literal in composition.
These compounds areundoubtedly included for a reason, yet the idea thatliteral compounds might actually be essential toWordNet?s usefulness may strike some as hereticalon at least two fronts: first, the lexicon is a finiteresource, while the space of compounds ispotentially infinite; and at any rate, literalcompounds can be created as needed from purelycompositional principles (Hanks, 2004).
However,these retorts are valid only if we view WordNet asa dictionary, but of course it is much more thanthis.
WordNet is a lexical ontology, and ultimately,ontologies derive a large part of their functionalityfrom their structure.So, while the meaning of literal compounds likeGreek-deity and animal-product may well bepredictable from compositional principles alone,such concepts still serve an importantorganizational role in WordNet by adding muchneeded structure to the middle ontology.
Havingconceded the importance of such compounds, oneis forced to address the issues of completeness andconsistency that then arise from their inclusion.Completeness suggests that we strive to include asmany literal compounds as are sensible, if theyenhance the organization of the ontology or if thereis evidence that they are in common usage in thelanguage.
Systematicity is a related issue thatarises when a group of existing compoundssuggests that another should also exist for theontology to be consistent.
For instance, theexistence of Greek-deity, Greek-alphabet andHebrew-alphabet leads to the hypothesis thatHebrew-deity should also exist if WordNet is to beboth consistent and symmetric in its treatment ofdifferent cultural groupings.Indeed, because literal compounds like thesearise from the yoking together of two differentontological branches into one, compoundingrepresents an important contextualization device inthe design of ontologies, allowing lexical elementsto be logically grouped into clusters or familiesthat share important dimensions of meaning.
Thisclustering facilitates both automated reasoning bymachines (such as the determination of semanticsimilarity based on taxonomic distance) andeffective browsing by humans.
Sometimes thisyoking results in a compound that, followingBoden (1990) and Wiggins (2003), deserves to becalled ?creative?, because it exhibits both noveltyand value.
Novelty can be measured along either apsychological or a historical dimension, whileutility is a reflection of the uses to which acompound can be put.
For instance, a newcompound may have utility as a clustering nodewhen added to the middle ontology if itsappropriate hyponyms can be identified.Alternately, a new compound may represent analternate nominalization of an existing concept(e.g., see Vendler?s (1967) insights aboutnominalization, and Lynott and Keane?s (2003)application of these insights to compoundgeneration).In this paper we present a process of ontologicalexploration to identify those areas of the lexiconthat can contribute to, and may in turn benefitfrom, the invention of new compound terms.
Sincethe discovery of new compound terms isessentially a process of creative exploration, weframe our discussion within the theoreticalframework of creative computation.
Within thisframework two approaches to validating newcompounds are presented: internal validationdetermines whether the ontology itself providesevidence for the sensibility of a new compound,while external validation uses web-search to findevidence that the compound already exists outsidethe ontology.
We then go on to show how thesedifferent strategies create a validation gap that canbe exploited to identify the small number of trulycreative compounds that arise.2 Exploring the Space of LMH ConceptsCreative discovery requires that we givestructure to the space of possible concepts that weplan to explore.
This is made somewhat easier ifwe consider the meaning of conceptual structuresto be grounded in a semiotic system of meaning-creating oppositions.
Given a starting structure,knowledge of allowable oppositions can then beused to transform this starting point into a varietyof different conceivable structures, some of whichmay be novel and possess value on a particularutility scale.The notion of opposition employed here is muchbroader than that of antonymy.
For our purposes,contextual oppositions exist between terms thatcompete to fill a given dimension of the sameconcept.
For instance, Greek1 and Hindu can eachbe used to differentiate the concept deity along aculture dimension, and so, in the context of deity,both are opposed.
However, this is a contextualopposition that, unlike the role of antonymy, doesnot constitute part of the meaning of eitherconcept.
WordNet is a rich source of explicitantonymous oppositions, but contextualoppositions must be inferred from the structure ofthe ontology itself and from existing compounds.Fortunately, WordNet contains many instancesof literal modifier-head terms, such as "pastrycrust" and "Greek alphabet".
The concepts denotedby these compound terms, or LMH concepts forshort, have the lexical form M-H (such as pizza-pieor prairie-dog) and express their literality in twoways.
First, they must be stored in the WordNetontology under an existing sense of the lexeme H;for instance, pizza-pie is actually stored under thehypernym pie.
Secondly, the gloss for the conceptM-H should actually contain the lexeme M orsome synonym of it.
Thus, while Greek-alphabet isa LMH (it literally is a kind of alphabet, and it isliterally Greek), neither monkey-bread (which isnot literally a kind of bread) nor Dutch-courage(which is not literally Dutch) is a LMH concept.2.1 A Framework for CreativityWe use the terminology of Wiggins (2003) toframe our discussion of creative exploration.Wiggins, following earlier work by Boden (1990),1To avoid later confusion with set notion, we denoteWordNet senses not as synsets but as italicized terms .formalizes the creative exploration process usingthe following abstractions:C  -  the realm of concepts that is being exploredR - the set of rules for forming concepts andconversely, deconstructing existing onesT - the transformational rules that generate newconcepts via RE -  the evaluation mechanism that ascribes valueor utility to these new conceptsIn applying these terms to creativity in WordNet,we introduce the following refinements:Cw  - the subset of C described explicitly inWordNet as synsetsC* - the set of LMH concepts in Cw consideredas a starting point for creative explorationR* - the subset of R needed to construct anddeconstruct LMH compounds in C*T* - the subset of T needed to hypothesize newLMH concepts for R* to constructSo for our current purposes, we define C* as theset of LMH concepts in WordNet, and R* as thecompositional criteria used to identify anddecompose existing LMH entries and to constructnew ones by concatenating an appropriate M and Hterm pair.
However, to define T*, we first need toconsider how taxonomic differentiation is used tocreate LMH concepts in the first place.3 Domain DifferentiationLMH concepts exist in WordNet to differentiatemore general concepts in meaningful taxonomicways.
For instance, the LMH concepts Greek-alphabet, Hebrew-alphabet and Roman-alphabeteach serve to differentiate the concept alphabet.This is a useful ontological distinction thatcontributes to the definition of individual letterconcepts like Alpha, Beta and Gimel.
Since we canrepresent this specialization pattern via adifferentiation set Dalphabet as follows:Dalphabet  = {Greek, Hebrew, Roman}More generally, the differentiation set of a conceptH comprises the set of all concepts M such that theLMH concept M-H is in C*.
Thus we have:Ddeity        = {Hindu, Roman, Greek,  ...}Darchitecture =  {Greek, Roman, ...}Dcalendar =  {Muslim, Jewish, Hebrew, ...}We use D to denote the set of all differentiationsets that are implied by C*, allowing us to definethe absolute affinity between two modifier terms c1and c2 in terms of differentiation as follows:Aabs(c1, c2) =   |{x ?
D: c1 ?
x ?
c2 ?
x}|       (1) (1)This simply counts the number of base conceptsthat c1 and c2 can both differentiate.
We thusdefine the relative affinity between two modifierterms c1 and c2 as follows:Arel(c1, c2) =     |{x ?
D : c1 ?
x ?
c2 ?
x}|      (2)/  |{x ?
D : c1 ?
x ?
c2 ?
x}|A relative affinity of 1.0 means that both termsdifferentiate exactly the same concepts inWordNet.
It follows that the higher the relativeaffinity between c1 and c2, then the greater thelikelihood that a concept differentiated by c1 canalso be differentiated by c2, while the higher theabsolute affinity, the more reliable this likelihoodestimate becomes.
Affinity thus provides aneffective basis for formulating the transformationrules in T*.We should naturally expect near-synonymousmodifiers to have a strong affinity for each other.For instance, Jewish and Hebrew are near-synonyms because WordNet compounds Jewish-Calendar and Hebrew-Calendar are themselvessynonymous.
This is clearly a form of contextualsynonymy, since Jewish and Hebrew do not meanthe same thing.
Nonetheless, their affinity can beused to generate new compounds that add value toWordNet as synonyms of existing terms, such asJewish-alphabet, Hebrew-Religion, and so on.Recall that literal compounds represent a yokingtogether of two or more ontological branches.
Inexploring the space of novel compounds, it will beimportant to recognize which branches mostnaturally form the strongest bonds.
Another variantof affinity can be formulated for this purpose:Adomain(x, y) =     |Dx ?
Dx|                   (3)For instance,  Adomain(sauce, pizza) = 2, since inWordNet the modifier overlap between the pizzaand sauce domains is {anchovy, cheese}.4 Creative Exploration in the LMH SpaceWe consider as an exploratory starting point anyLMH concept M-H in C*.
We can transform thisinto another concept M'-H by replacing M withany M' for which:M' ?
{x | x ?
D - {DH} ?
M ?
x}             (4)This formulation may suggest a large range ofvalues of M'.
However, these candidates can besorted by Arel(M, M'), which estimates theprobability that a given M'-H will later bevalidated as useful.
One rule in T* can now beformulated for our further consideration:T*:   M1-H1 ?
M1-H2 ?
M2-H1   ?
M2-H2     (5)This rule allows the LMH space to be exploredvia a process of modifier modulation.
Suppose wechoose Greek-deity as a starting point.
Since M =Greek and H = Deity, we can choose M' from anyset other than Ddeity that contains Greek:Dalphabet      = {Hebrew, Greek, Roman}Ddeity          = {Greek, Roman, Norse, Hindu, ?
}These differentiation patterns suggest that newcompounds can meaningfully be created by yokingthe ontological branches of alphabet and deitytogether.
Thus, from Dalphabet we can choose M'to be either Hebrew or Roman, leading to thecreation of the LMH concepts Hebrew-deity andRoman-deity.
One of these, Roman-deity, alreadyexists in C*, but another, Hebrew-deity is novel ina way that Boden terms psychologically or P-Creative, inasmuch as it is neither in Cw nor C*.
Itmay thus be of some value as a hypernym forexisting WordNet concepts like Yahwe andJehovah.Rule (5) is a general principle for ontologicalexploration in the space of compound terms.Consider the compound software-engineering,which, following (5), is suggested by the jointexistence in WordNet of the concepts software-engineer, automotive-engineer and automotive-engineering.
While this particular addition couldbe predicted from the application of simplemorphology rules, the point here is that a singleexploration principle like (5) can obviate the needfor a patchwork of such simple rules.Of course, one can imagine rules other than (5)to exploit the regularities inherent in WordNetdefinitions.
For instance, consider the sensegasoline-bomb, which WordNet glosses as: ?acrude incendiary bomb made of a bottle filled withflammable liquid and fitted with a rag wick?.
Bydetermining which definite description in the glossconforms to the modifier ?
in this case it is?flammable liquid?
?
other modifiers can be foundthat also match this description.
Thus, the newconcepts methanol-bomb and butanol-bomb can begenerated, and from this the creative conceptalcohol-bomb can be generalized.
However, eachstrategy raises its own unique issues, so for nowwe consider a T* comprising (5) only.4.1 The Evaluation Mechanism EFor purposes of ascribing value or ontologicalutility to a new LMH concept M'-H, the conceptmust first be placed into one of the followingcategories:a) M'-H already exists in C* is thus ascribed zerovalue as an addition to C*.b)  M'-H does not exist in C* but does exist in Cw,and thus corresponds to an existing non-literalconcept (such as monkey-bread).
While it mayhave value if given a purely literal reading, itcannot be added to Cw without creatingambiguity, and so has zero value.c)  Using R*, M'-H can be seen to describe a non-empty class of existing concepts in Cw, andwould thus have value as either a synonym(when this set is a singleton) or as a neworganizing super-type (when this set is aseveralton).
In this case, we say that M'-H hasbeen internally validated against Cw.d) Using a textual analysis of a large corpus suchas the World-Wide-Web, M'-H is recognizedto have a conventional meaning in C even if itis not described in Cw.
In this case, we say thatM'-H has been externally validated forinclusion in Cw.
The fact that M'-H is novel tothe system but not to the historical context ofthe web suggests that it is merely apsychologically or P-Creative invention in thesense of Boden (1990).e) M'-H is recognized to have a hypothetical ormetaphoric value within a comprehensionframework such as conceptual blending theory(e.g., see Veale et al 2000), mental spacetheory, etc.
In this case, M'-H may truly be ahistorically or H-Creative invention in thesense of Boden (1990).In general, a new compound has value if itsexistence is suggested by, but not recognized by,the lexical ontology.
As noted in the introduction,this value can be realized in a variety of ways, e.g.,by automatically suggesting new knowledge-baseadditions to the lexical ontologist, or by providingpotentially creative expansions for a user query inan information retrieval system (see Veale, 2004).4.2 Validating New ConceptsThe evaluation strategies (c) and (d) abovesuggest two ways of validating the results of newcompound creation: a WordNet-internal approachthat uses the structure of the ontology itself toprovide evidence for a compound?s utility, and aWordNet-external approach that instead looks toan unstructured archive like the web.
In both cases,a new compound is validated by assembling asupport set of precedent terms that argue for itsmeaningfulness.4.2.1 Internal ValidationThe internal support-set for a new compound M-His the set of all WordNet words w that have: (i) atleast one sense that is a hyponym of a sense of H;and (ii) a sense that contains M or some variant ofit in its gloss.
For instance, the novel compound?rain god?
is internally validated by the word set{?Thor?, ?Parjanya?, ?Rain giver?
}.When w is polysemous, two distinct senses maybe used, reflecting the fact that M-H may bemetonymic in construction.
For instance, thecompound ?raisin-wine?
can be validatedinternally by the polysemous word ?muscatel?,since one sense of ?muscatel?
is a kind of wine,and another, a kind of grape, has a WordNet glosscontaining the word ?raisin?.
From thisperspective, a ?raisin wine?
can be a wine madefrom the same grapes that raisins are made from.Likewise, the compound ?Jewish robot?
can bevalidated by simultaneously employing both sensesof ?Golem?
in WordNet, which defines ?Golem?as either a Jewish mythical being or as a roboticautomaton.Creative products arise when conceptualingredients from different domains are effectivelyblended (see Veale and O?Donoghue, 2000).
Itfollows that a creative product can be validated bydeblending it into its constituent parts anddetermining whether there is a precedent forcombining elements of these types, if not thesespecific elements.
We can thus exploit this notionof deblending to provide internal validation fornew compounds.
For instance the WordNet glossfor pizza lists ?tomato sauce?
as an ingredient.This suggests we can meaningfully understand acompound of the form  M-pizza if there exists acompound M-sauce that can be viewed as areplacement for this ingredient.
Generalizing fromthis, we can consider a new compound M1-H1 tobe internally validated if H has a sense whose glosscontains the compound M2-H2, and if the ontologyadditionally contains the concept M1-H2.
It followsthen that the novel compounds apple-pizza,chocolate-pizza, taco-pizza, and curry-pizza willall  be internally validated as meaningful (if notnecessarily enjoyable) varieties of pizza.4.2.2 External ValidationIn contrast, the external validation set for acompound M-H is the set of distinct documentsthat contain the compound term ?M H?, asacquired using a web search engine.
For instance,given the WordNet concepts naval-engineer,software-engineer and naval-academy, rule (5)generates the hypothesis software-academy, whichcannot be validated internally yet which retrievesover 1000 web documents to atest to its validity.This web strategy is motivated by Keller andLapata?s (2003) finding that the number ofdocuments containing a novel compound reliablypredicts the human plausibility scores for thecompound.Nonetheless, external validation in this way isby no means a robust process.
Since webdocuments are not sense tagged, one cannot besure that a compound occurs with the sense that itis hypothesized to have.
Indeed, it may not evenoccur as a compound at all, but as a coincidentaljuxtaposition of terms from different phrases orsentences.
Finally, even if found with the correctsyntactic and semantic form, one cannot be surethat the usage is not that of a non-native, secondlanguage learner.These possibilities can be diminished byseeking a large enough sample set, but this has theeffect of setting the evidential bar too high for trulycreative compounds.
However, another solutionlies in the way that the results of externalvalidation are actually used, as we shall later see.4.2.3 Validating New SynonymsMany of the compounds that are validated eitherby internal or external means will be synonyms ofexisting WordNet terms.
As such, their creativevalue will not represent an innovative combinationof ideas, but rather a creative use of paraphrasing.The nature of (5) makes it straightforward todetermine which is the case.In general, when M1-H1 and M2-H1 arethemselves synonyms, then M2-H2 will be asynonym of M1-H2.
For instance, from thecombination of applied-science, engineering-science and applied-mathematics, we can generatefrom (5) the new compound engineering-mathematics.
This compound cannot be validatedinternally, but since it retrieves more than 300,000documents from the web, this is enough toadequately atest to its meaningfulness.
Now, sinceapplied-science and engineering-science aresynonymous in WordNet, we can conclude thatengineering-mathematics and applied-mathematicsare themselves synonymous also.4.3 Creativity in the Validation GapThe difference between internal and externalvalidation strategies can be illuminating.
Internalvalidation verifies a compound on the basis that itcould meaningfully exist, while external validationverifies it on the basis that it does actually exist ina large corpus.
Therefore, if a compound can bevalidated externally but not internally, it suggeststhat the concept may by P-Creative.
In contrast, ifthe compound can be validated internally but notexternally, it suggests that the compound may beH-Creative and represent a genuine historicalinnovation (if only a lexical one, and of minorproportions).For instance, the new compound ?sea dance?
(analogous to ?rain dance?)
cannot be validatedinternally, yet can be found in over 700 internetdocuments.
It thus denotes a P-Creative concept.
Incontrast, the compound ?cranial vein?
yields nodocuments from a web query (on AltaVista), yetcan be internally validated by WordNet via theword-concept Diploic-Vein, a blood vessel thatserves the soft tissue of the cranial bones.Likewise, the compounds ?chocolate pizza?, ?tacopizza?
and many more from the yoking of Dpizzaand Dsauce can all be validated externally viahundreds of different web occurrences, and sorepresent P-Creative varieties of pizza.
However,compounds like ?Newburg pizza?
(a pizza madewith lobster sauce) and ?wine pizza?
(a pizza madewith wine sauce) can only be validated internallyand are thus candidates for H-Creative innovation.5 Large-Scale EvaluationA large scale evaluation of these ideas wasconducted by exhaustively applying the T* rule of(5) to the noun taxonomy of WordNet 1.7.
Tobetter see the effect of affinity between modifiers,Table 1 ranks the results according to the measureAabs from (1).Aabs 1 2 3No.
compoundsgenerated941,841 22,727 2,175% H-Creative 0.49% 0.63% 1.38%% P-Creative 35.65% 33.77% 34.57%% Conflations 0.10% 0.10% 0.05%%Indeterminate 63.76% 65.49% 64.00%Table 1: Number of compounds created, and theirassessment, for each affinity level.Conflations are terms that exist both as compoundsand as conflated lexical atoms.
For instance, whilethe compound ?bull dog?
may not exist inWordNet, its conflation ?bulldog?
does.Compound discovery is thus a useful means of re-expanding these conflations when it is meaningfulto do so.As one might expect, lower affinity levels allowgreater numbers of new compounds to be created.Interestingly, however, Table 1 suggests that as theaffinity threshold is raised and the number ofcompounds lowered, the creativity of thesecompounds increases, as measured by the relativeproportion of H-Creative terms that are generated.Generating compound terms in a lexicalontology is a creative process that demandsrigorous validation if the ontology is not to becorrupted.
Of the two strategies discussed here,external validation is undoubtedly the weaker ofthe two, as one should be loathe to add newcompounds to WordNet on the basis of webevidence alone.
However,  external validation doesserve to illustrate the soundness of internalvalidation, since 99.51% of internally validatedconcepts (at Aabs = 1) are shown to exist on theweb.
It follows then that the absence of externalvalidation yields a very conservative basis forassessing H-Creativity.
Web validation is perhapsbetter used therefore as a means of rejectingcreative products than as a means of discoveringthem.
In fact, when used as a reverse barometer inthis way, the inevitable errors that arise from web-based validation serve only to make the creativeprocess more selective.6 Conclusions and Future WorkWe are currently considering ways ofbroadening the scope of internal validation whilemaintaining its conceptual rigour.
This shouldcounter-balance the high rejection rate caused  byan overly conservative external validation process,and thereby allow us to identify a higherpercentage of H-creative products.
As shown withthe ?pizza?
examples of section 4.3, we havealready begun to explore the possibilities ofvalidation latent in the WordNet ontology itself.
Sowhile the use of web content for external validationsuggests that creative discovery has a role to playin producing and expanding web queries, internalvalidation remains our central thrust, leading towhat we hope will be a new, more creative modelof the thesaurus.In grounding our discussion in the creativeframework of Boden (1990) and its formalizationby Wiggins (2003), we have placed particularemphasis on the labels P-Creative and H-Creative.However, the empirical results of section 5 suggestthat this binary categorization may be overlyreductive, and that a more gradated system oflabels is needed.
For instance, the novelcompounds computer-consultant and handwriting-consultant are both created from a yoking of thedomains expert and consultant, and because each isexternally validated, each is considered P-Creative.However, while only a handful of documents canbe marshalled to support handwriting-consultant,the amount of web evidence available to supportcomputer-consultant is vast.
So it is wrongheadedto consider both as equally P-Creative and lackingin H-Creativity, since the dearth of existing usessuggests handwriting-consultant has far greaternovelty.
Perhaps what is needed then is not abinary categorization but a continuous one, anumeric scale with P- and H-Creativity as its poles.This scale would function much like the continuumused by (MacCormac, 1985) to separate banalmetaphors (which he dubbed epiphors) fromcreative ones (or diaphors).ReferencesM.
A. Boden.
1990.
The Creative Mind: Myths andMechanisms.
New York: Basic Books.P.
Hanks.
2004.
WordNet: What is to be done?
Inthe proceedings of GWC?2004, the 2nd GlobalWordNet conference, Masaryk University, Brno.F.
Keller, and M. Lapata.
2003.
Using the web toobtain frequencies for unseen bigrams.Computational Linguistics.Lynott, Dermot and Mark Keane, 2003.
The role ofknowledge support in creating noun-nouncompounds.
In the proceedings of the 25thConference of the Cognitive Science Society.E.
R. MacCormac.
1985.
A Cognitive Theory ofMetaphor.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.G.
Miller, R. Beckwith, C. Fellbaum, D. Grossand K.J.
Miller.
1990.
Introduction to WordNet:an on-line lexical database.
International Journalof Lexicography, 3(4):235 ?
244.G.
Wiggins.
2003.
Categorizing Creative Systems.In the proceedings of the 3rd Workshop onCreative Systems, IJCAI?03, Acapulco, Mexico.T.
Veale and D. O?Donoghue.
2000.
Computationand Blending.
Cognitive Linguistics, 11(3/4):253?
281.T.
Veale.
2004.
Creative Information Retrieval.
Inthe proceedings of CICLing 2004, A. Gelbukh,ed.
LNCS 2945, Springer: Berlin.Z.
Vendler.
1967.
Linguistics and Philosophy.Ithaca, New York: Cornell University Press.
