Improving Statistical Machine Translation in the Medical Domainusing the Unified Medical Language SystemMatthias Eckmatteck@cs.cmu.eduStephan VogelCarnegie Mellon University5000 Forbes AvenuePittsburgh, PA, 15213, USAvogel+@cs.cmu.eduAlex Waibelahw@cs.cmu.eduAbstractTexts from the medical domain are animportant task for natural languageprocessing.
This paper investigates theusefulness of a large medical database (theUnified Medical Language System) for thetranslation of dialogues between doctors andpatients using a statistical machine translationsystem.
We are able to show that theextraction of a large dictionary and the usageof semantic type information to generalize thetraining data significantly improves thetranslation performance.1 IntroductionHospitals in the United States have to deal withan increasing number of patients who have noknowledge of the English language.
It is notsurprising that in this area translation errors canlead to severe problems (Neergard, 2003; Flores etal.
2003).
This is one of the main reasons why themedical domain plays an important role in many ofthe current projects involving natural languageprocessing.
Especially many text or speechtranslation projects include tasks to translate textsor dialogues with medical topics.The goal of this research was the improvementof translation quality in the medical domain usinga statistical machine translation system.
Astatistical machine translation system deducestranslation rules from large amounts of paralleltexts in the source and target language.The general approach to gather as much trainingdata as possible is usually complicated andexpensive.
So it is necessary to make use ofalready available data and databases and it isreasonable to hope that some ideas and specialmethods could actually improve the performancein limited domains, like the medical domain.The Internet and especially the WWW offers alot of data related to medical topics.
Especiallyinteresting and promising for us was the UnifiedMedical Language System?
(UMLS, 1986-2004)available from the US National Library ofMedicine.
It provides a vast amount of informationconcerning medical terms and we extractedinformation from this database to improve anexistent translation system.The paper will first give an introduction into theUnified Medical Language system.
We will thenpoint out which parts could be useful for statisticalmachine translation and later show how thebaseline system was actually significantlyimproved using this data.2 The Unified Medical Language System2.1 IntroductionThe Unified Medical Language System (UMLS,1986-2004) project was initiated in 1986 by theU.S.
National Library of Medicine.
It integratesdifferent knowledge sources into one database (e.g.biomedical vocabularies, dictionaries).The goal is to help health professionals andresearchers to use biomedical information fromthese different sources.
It is usually updated about3 or 4 times per year.It consists of three main knowledge repositories,the UMLS Metathesaurus, the UMLS SemanticNetwork and the SPECIALIST lexicon.Interesting facts about the UMLS, related workand further information can be found in(Lindbergh, 1990; Kashyap, 2003; Brown et al,2003; Friedman et al, 2001; Zweigenbaum et al,2003).2.2 The UMLS MetathesaurusThe UMLS Metathesaurus provides a commonstructure for approximately 100 source biomedicalvocabularies.The 2003AB1 version of the Metathesauruscontains exactly 900,551 concepts named by2,247,457 terms.
It is organized by concept, whichis a cluster of terms (i.e.
synonyms, lexical variants12003AB was the actual release when theexperiments described in this paper were executed.
Themost recent version now is 2004AA, which containscertain additional and updated information.
All numbersgiven in this paper are according to the 2003ABversion.and translations) with the same meaning.Translations are present for up to 14 additionallanguages besides English.
It is very likely thatother languages will be added in later releases.Table 1 shows the distribution of the termsaccording to the 15 different languages.Language Number of TermsEnglish 1860683Spanish 73136German 71316Portuguese 69127Russian 44907Dutch  38600French 38249Italian 24992Finnish 22382Danish 723Swedish 723Norwegian 722Hungarian 718Basque 695Hebrew 484Table 1: Languages in the UMLSFor example the concept ?arm?
includes theEnglish lexical variant, its plural form, ?arms?
andwith ?bras?, ?arm?, ?braccio?, ?braco?, ?ruka?
and?brazo?
the French, German, Italian, Portuguese,Russian and Spanish translations.Some entries contain case information, too, andthe entries are not limited to words but some termsare also longer phrases like  ?third degree burn oflower leg?
or ?loss of consciousness?.It also includes inter-concept relationshipsacross the multiple vocabularies.
The mainrelationship types are shown in Table 2:Relationship typesbroadernarrowerother relatedlikeparentchildsiblingis allowed qualifiercan be qualified byis co-occurring withTable 2: Relationship typesThe synonym-relationship is implicitly realizedby different terms that are affiliated with the sameconcept.The co-occurrence relationship refers toconcepts co-occurring in the MEDLINE-publications.In addition each concept is categorized intosemantic types according to the UMLS SemanticNetwork.2.3 The UMLS Semantic NetworkThe UMLS Semantic Network categorizes theconcepts of the UMLS Metathesaurus throughsemantic types and relationships.Every concept in the Metathesaurus is part ofone or more semantic types.There are 135 semantic types arranged in ageneralization hierarchy with the two roots?Entity?
and ?Event?.
This hierarchy is still ratherabstract (e.g.
not deeper than six).A more detailed generalization hierarchy isrealized with the child, parent and siblingrelationships of the UMLS Metathesaurus.Figure 1 shows some examples for semantic types.EntityPhysical ObjectOrganismAnatomical StructureFully Formed Anatomical StructureBody Part, Organ or Organ ComponentManufactured ObjectMedical DeviceDrug Delivery DeviceClinical DrugEventActivityBehaviorSocial BehaviorOccupational ActivityHealth Care ActivityLaboratory ProcedurePhenomenon or ProcessHuman caused Phenomenon or ProcessFigure 1: Some semantic types2.4 The SPECIALIST lexiconThe SPECIALIST lexicon contains over 30,000English words.
It is intended to be a generalEnglish lexicon including many biomedical terms.The lexicon entry for each word or term recordsthe syntactic, morphological and orthographicinformation.
{base=anestheticspelling_variant=anaestheticentry=E0330018cat=nounvariants=regvariants=uncount}Figure 2: Example entry from theSpecialist LexiconFigure 2 shows the entry for ?anesthetic?.
Thereis a spelling variant ?anaesthetic?
and an entrynumber.
The category in this case is noun (there isanother entry for ?anesthetic?
as an adjective).
Thevariants-slot contains a code indicating theinflectional morphology of the entry.
?anesthetic?can either be a regular count noun (with regularplural ?anesthetics?)
or an uncountable noun.3 Machine Translation Experiments3.1 The Baseline SystemThe Baseline system, which we used to testdifferent approaches to improve the translationperformance, is a statistical machine translationsystem.
The task was to facilitate doctor-patientdialogues across languages.
In this case we chosetranslation from Spanish to English.The Baseline system was trained using 9,227lines of training data (90,012 English words,89,432 Spanish words).
3,227 lines of this data are?in-domain?
data.
We collected doctor patientdialogues during ongoing research projects in ourgroup and used this data as training data.
The6,000 other lines of training data are out of domaindata from the C-Star Project.
This data alsoconsists of dialogues but not from the medicaldomain.The test data consists of 500 lines with 6,886words.
The test data was also taken from medicaldialogues between a doctor and a patient andcontains a reasonable number of medical terms butthe language is not very complex.
Figure 3 showssome example test sentences (from the referencedata).(?
)Doctor: The symptoms you are describing andgiven your recent change in diet, I believeyou may be anemic.Patient: Anemic?
Really?
Is that serious?Doctor: Anemia can be very serious if leftuntreated.
Being anemic means your bodylacks a sufficient amount of red blood cellsto carry oxygen through your body.(?
)Figure 3: Example test sentences (reference)The Baseline system uses IBM1 lexicontransducers and different types of phrasetransducers (Zhang et al 2003, Vogel et al 1996,Vogel et al 2003).
The Language model is atrigram language model with Good-Turing-Smoothing built with the SRI-Toolkit (SRI, 1995-2004) using only the English part of the trainingdata.The Baseline system scores a 0.171 BLEU and4.72 NIST.
[BLEU and NIST are well knownscoring methods for measuring machine translationquality.
Both calculate the precision of atranslation by comparing it to a referencetranslation and incorporating a length penalty(Doddington, 2001; Papineni et al, 2002).
]3.2 Extracting dictionaries from the UMLSThe first way to exploit the UMLS database for astatistical machine translation system naturally isto extract additional Spanish-English lexicons orphrasebooks.The UMLS Metathesaurus provides translationinformation as we can assume that Spanish andEnglish terms that are associated with the sameconcept are respective translations.
For exampleas the English term ?arm?
is associated with thesame concept as the Spanish term ?brazo?
we candeduce that ?arm?
is the English translation of?brazo?.Unfortunately the UMLS does not containmorphological information about languages otherthan English.
This means it cannot beautomatically detected that ?brazo?
is the singularform and thus the translation of ?arm?
and not thetranslation of ?arms?.As most of the entries are in singular form wejust extracted every possible combination ofSpanish and English terms regardless of possibleerrors like combining the singular ?brazo?
and theplural ?arms?.The resulting (lower-cased) Spanish-Englishlexicon/phrasebook contains 495,248 pairs ofwords and phrases.
This means each Spanish termis combined with seven English terms on average.This seems to be an extremely huge amount butit has to be considered that there are terms in theUMLS and the resulting lexicon that are probablytoo special to be really useful for the translation ofdialogues  (e.g.
?1,1,1-trichloropropene-2,3-oxide?translating to ?oxido de tricloropropeno?
).Nevertheless there are lots of meaningful entriesas the following experiments show.Applying the dictionaries to the Baseline systemIn the first step we just added thislexicon/phrasebook as an additional transducer anddid not change the language model.The experiment showed a nice increase in BLEUand NIST performances and scored at 0.180 BLEUand 4.86 NIST.This system especially has a higher coverage, asonly 302 words (types) are not covered by thetraining data compared to 411 for the baselinesystem.Adding the English side to the Language ModelAs the extracted dictionary contained manyphrases it seemed reasonable to add the Englishside to the language modeling data.
This alsoprevents words from the extracted dictionary to betreated as ?unknown?
by the language model ifthey were not in the language model training data.This further improved the BLEU and NIST scoresto 0.182 BLEU and 4.92 NIST.It should not be surprising to get an improvementin these first two experiments because basicallyjust more data was used to train the systems.
Thereally interesting ideas will be presented in thenext sections.3.3 Using the Semantic Type InformationThe overall idea to use the semantic typeinformation is to generalize the training data.The training data contains for example sentencepairs like:Necesito examinar su cabeza.I need to examine your head.Necesito examinar su brazo.I need to examine your arm.Necesito examinar su rodilla.I need to examine your knee.If we could generalize these sentences byreplacing the special body parts like ?head?, ?arm?and ?knee?
with a general tag e.g.?@BODYPART?
and especially treat this tag wecould use one sentence of training data for everybody part imaginable in this sentence.We would just need an additional lexicon that justtranslates body parts.Necesito examinar su @BODYPART.I need to examine your @BODYPART.We could additionally correctly translate possiblyunseen sentences like ?Necesito examinar suantebrazo?
(?I need to examine your forearm?)
ifwe could automatically deduce that?antebrazo/forearm?
is a body part and if we justknew this translation pair.Some additional similar sentences in which wecould apply the same ideas are:Enseneme que @BODYPART es.Show me which @BODYPART.
?Que @BODYPART le/la duele?Which @BODYPART hurts?
(In the last sentence it actually depends on thegender of the body part on the Spanish side if thesentence is ?
?Que @BODYPART la duele??
or?
?Que @BODYPART le duele??.
But as we aretranslating from Spanish to English this did notseem to be a big problem.
)As stated before every concept in the UMLSMetathesaurus is categorized into one or moresemantic types defined in the UMLS SemanticNetwork.The two semantic types ?Body Part, Organ, orOrgan Component?
and ?Body Location orRegion?
from the UMLS Semantic Network coverpretty closely what we usually affiliate with thecolloquial meaning of body part.
[The terminological difference is that thesemantic type ?Body Part, Organ, or OrganComponent?
is defined by a certain function.
Forexample ?liver?
and ?eye?
are part of this semantictype, whereas the semantic type ?Body Location orRegion?
is defined by the topographical location ofthe respective body part.
Examples are ?head?
and?arm?.
The function in this case is not as clearlydefined as the function of a ?liver?.
]This information was used in the nextexperiment.
We first filtered the general Spanish-English dictionary, we had extracted from theUMLS, to contain only words and phrases from thetwo semantic types ?Body Part, Organ, or OrganComponent?
and ?Body Location or Region?.
Thisgave a dictionary of 11,260 translation entries forbody parts.
Again each Spanish term is combinedwith about seven English terms on average.In the next step we replaced every occurrence of aword or phrase pair from this new dictionary in thetraining data (i.e.
if it occurred on the Spanish andEnglish side) with a general body-part-tag.527 sentence pairs of the original 9,227 sentencepairs contained a word or phrase pair from thisdictionary.A retraining of the translation system with thischanged training data resulted in transducer rulescontaining this body-part-tag.By using cascaded transducers (Vogel and Ney,2000) in the actual translation the first transducer,that is applied (in this case the body-partdictionary) replaces the Spanish body part with itstranslation pair and the body-part tag.The following transducers can apply theirgeneralized rules containing the body-part-taginstead of the real body part.E.g.
translation of the sentence:Necesito examinar su antebrazo.First step apply body-part dictionary rule(antebrazo?forearm)Necesito examinar su @BODYPART(antebrazo?forearm).Apply generalized transducer rule: (a rule couldbe: Necesito examinar su @BODYPART ?
I needto examine your @BODYPART)I need to examine your @BODYPART(antebrazo?forearm).Resolve tags:I need to examine your forearm.By applying this to the whole translation systemthe score improved to 0.188 BLEU/4.94 NIST.Using other semantic typesAs the body-part lexicon and the replacement ofbody-parts proved to be helpful we applied twomore of these replacement strategies.
Consider thefollowing 4 sentence pairs from the training data.
?Siente dolor cuando respira?Do you feel pain when you breathe?
?Cuando le empezo la fiebre?When did the fever start?
?Podria ser artritis?Could this be arthritis?
?Es grave la anemia, doctor?Is anemia serious, doctor?The first two sentences contain findings orsymptoms with the terms ?dolor/pain?
and?fiebre/fever?.
The second two sentences containdiseases with ?artritis/arthritis?
and?anemia/anemia?.
The appropriate semantic typesfrom the UMLS Semantic Network for these termsare ?Finding?
and ?Sign or Symptom?
for ?pain?and ?fever?
and ?Disease or Syndrome?
for?arthritis?
and ?anemia?Filtering the Spanish-English dictionary resultedin 25,987 ?Finding/Sign or Symptom?
translationpairs (approximately three English terms perSpanish term) and 116,793 ?Disease or Syndrome?translation pairs (approximately five English termsper Spanish term).198 sentence pairs from the training datacontained a ?Finding/Sign or Symptom?-pair and127 sentence pairs contained a ?Disease orSyndrome?-pair from these dictionaries.The final translation with those three semantictypes replaced in the training data and using thethree filtered dictionaries with the cascadedtransducer application gave a translationperformance of 0.190 BLEU/5.02 NIST.This shows that although less than 10% of thesentences were affected by the replacement withthe appropriate tags we could nicely improve theoverall translation performance.Example translationsSome example translations comparing the baselineand the best system with the reference are listed intable 3.1.
SentenceReferencethe condition is called tenosynovitis, whichis an inflammation of the tendon sheath.Baselinethis condici?n diagnostic, which is ainflammation from the of the tendon.Best Systemthis condition is called tenosynovitis, whichis a inflammation of tendon sheath.2.
SentenceReferencei guess your work involves a lot of repetitivemovement, huh?Baselinedo you I guess your work require plentybaby?s, no?Best Systemi guess you your work require plentyrepetitive movements, not?3.
SentenceReferenceyou need vitamin c and iron in your bloodto help your bodyBaselineyou need vitamin c and iron in your bloodhelp rescue toBest Systemyou need vitamin c and iron in your bloodto help the body4.
SentenceReferencedid you take anything for the pain?Baselinedid you sleep taken anything for the pain?Best Systemdid you taken anything for the pain?5.
SentenceReferencei can feel it here, behind my breastbone.Baselinei here, behind of the estern?n.Best Systemi here, behind of sternum.Table 3: Example translationsThe last example sentence is an interesting case.The best system does not get more words rightcompared to the baseline system and so theBLEU/NIST-score does not improve.
But?sternum?
is a synonym of the correct?breastbone?
and a more technical term.
Thissupports the claim that the UMLS tends to containmore technical terms (like ?tenosynovitis?
in thefirst sentence).4 Future workIt is surely possible to use every semantic typefrom the semantic network in the same way likethe overall five semantic types, which were used inthe experiments.
We did not do this here becausefurther semantic types occurred extremely rarely inthe test and training data.
But this could easily bedone for other test and training data and it isreasonable to expect similar improvements.Another idea is to use a more specializedapproach and to make use of the relationships inthe UMLS Metathesaurus.
Each concept could begeneralized by its parent-concepts instead of itssemantic type.
The generalization hierarchy for theconcept ?leg?
is for example: leg ?
lower extremity?
extremity ?
body region ?
anatomy.This could be especially helpful when translatingto morphologically richer languages than Englishbecause the usage of extremities could differ fromother body parts for example.In the extracted dictionaries every translationpair was given the same translation probability.
Itmight be helpful to re-score these probabilities byusing information from bilingual or monolingualtexts to improve the translation probabilities forusually frequently used terms compared to rarelyused terms.As the example translations showed, theextracted dictionaries from the UMLS tend tocontain technical terms instead of colloquial terms(translation ?sternum?
instead of ?breastbone?
).We can further assume that a doctor prefers to usethe more technical terms and a patient prefers themore colloquial terms.
Therefore it could beinteresting to examine if having two differenttranslation systems for sentences uttered by adoctor and a patient would improve the overalltranslation performance.5 ConclusionWe carried out four different experiments in orderto improve a Spanish-English medical domaintranslation system.
After sequentially applyingdifferent ideas the final system shows an 11%improvement in BLEU and 6% improvement inNIST score.Table 4 compares the different experiments andscores (the 500k dictionary refers to the dictionarythat was first extracted from the UMLS with495,248 word pairs).System BLEU NISTBaseline system 0.171 4.72+500k dictionary 0.180 4.86+LM improvement 0.182 4.92+body part-tags 0.188 4.94+sign/symptom/finding+disease/syndrome0.190 5.02Table 4: Experiments and improvementsWith more investigation and the ongoing effortof the National Library of Medicine to extent theUMLS databases it will hopefully be possible tofurther improve the translation performance.ReferencesAllen C. Browne, Guy Divita, Alan R. Aronson,Alexa T. McGray, 2003.
UMLS Language andVocabulary Tools, Proceedings of the AmericanMedical Informatics Association (AMIA) 2003Symposium, Washington, DC, USA.George Doddington.
2001.
Automatic Evaluationof Machine Translation Quality using n-GramCooccurrence Statistics.
NIST Washington, DC,USA.Glenn Flores, M. Barton Laws, Sandra J. Mayo,Barry Zuckerman, Milagros Abreu, LeonardoMedina,Eric J. Hardt, 2003.
Errors in medicalinterpretation and their potential clinicalconsequences in pediatric encounters, Pediatrics,Jan 2003.Carol Friedman, Hongfang Liu, Lyuda Shagina,Stephen Johnson, George Hripcsak, 2001.Evaluating the UMLS as a Source of LexicalKnowledge for Medical Language Processing,Proceedings of the AMIA 2001 Symposium,Washington, DC, USA.Vipul Kashyap, 2003.
The UMLS semanticnetwork and the semantic web, Proceedings ofthe AMIA 2003 Symposium,  Washington, DC,USA.C.
Lindberg, 1990.
The Unified Medical LanguageSystem (UMLS) of the National Library ofMedicine, Journal of the American MedicalRecord Association, 1990;61(5):40-42.Lauren Neergard, 2003.
Hospitals struggle withgrowing language barrier, Associated Press, TheCharlotte Observer Sept. 2, 2003Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, andWei-Jing Zhu, 2002.
BLEU: a Method forAutomatic Evaluation of Machine Translation,Proceedings of the ACL 2002, Philadelphia,USA.SRI Speech Technology and Research Laboratory,SRI Language Modeling Toolkit, 1995-2004(ongoing)http://www.speech.sri.com/projects/srilm/UMLS Unified Medical Language System,National Library of Medicine, 1986-2004(ongoing)http://www.nlm.nih.gov/research/umls/Stephan Vogel and Hermann Ney, 2000.Translation with Cascaded Finite StateTransducers.
Proceedings of the 38th AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (ACL 2000), pp.
23-30.
Hongkong,China, October 2000.Stephan Vogel, Hermann Ney, and Christoph Till-mann, 1996.
HMM-based Word Alignment inStatistical Translation, Proceedings of COLING1996: The 16th International Conference onComputational Linguistics, pp.
836-841.Copenhagen, August 1996.Stephan Vogel, Ying Zhang, Fei Huang, AliciaTribble, Ashish Venogupal, Bing Zhao, AlexWaibel, 2003.
The CMU Statistical TranslationSystem, Proceedings of MT-Summit IX.
NewOrleans, LA.
Sep 2003.Ying Zhang, Stephan Vogel, Alex Waibel, 2003.Integrated Phrase Segmentation and AlignmentAlgorithm for Statistical Machine Translation,Proceedings of International Conference onNatural Language Processing and KnowledgeEngineering 2003, Beijing, China, Oct 2003.Pierre Zweigenbaum, Robert Baud, Anita Burgun,Fiammetta Namer, ?ric Jarrousse, NataliaGrabar, Patrick Ruch, Franck Le Duff, Beno?tThirion, St?fan Darmoni, 2003.
UMLF: aUnified Medical Lexicon for French,Proceedings of the AMIA 2003 Symposium,Washington, DC, USA.
