Interpreting Vague Utterances in ContextDavid DeVault and Matthew StoneDepartment of Computer ScienceRutgers UniversityPiscataway NJ 08854-8019David.DeVault@rutgers.edu, Matthew.Stone@rutgers.eduAbstractWe use the interpretation of vague scalar predi-cates like small as an illustration of how system-atic semantic models of dialogue context en-able the derivation of useful, fine-grained utter-ance interpretations from radically underspeci-fied semantic forms.
Because dialogue contextsuffices to determine salient alternative scalesand relevant distinctions along these scales,we can infer implicit standards of comparisonfor vague scalar predicates through completelygeneral pragmatics, yet closely constrain the in-tended meaning to within a natural range.1 IntroductionModeling context and its effects on interpretationmay once have seemed to call for an open-ended in-vestigation of people?s knowledge of the common-sense world (Hobbs et al, 1993).
But research onthe semantics of practical dialogue (Allen et al,2001) now approaches dimensions of context sys-tematically, through increasingly lightweight, fac-tored models.
The evolving state of real-world ac-tivity proceeds predictably according to backgroundplans and principles of coordination (Rich et al,2001).
The status of the dialogue itself is definedby circumscribed obligations to ground prior ut-terances, follow up open issues, and advance real-world negotiation (Larsson and Traum, 2000).
Fi-nally, the evolving state of the linguistic contextis a direct outgrowth of the linguistic forms inter-locutors use and the linguistic relationships amongsuccessive utterances (Ginzburg and Cooper, 2001;Asher and Lascarides, 2003).
These compatiblemodels combine directly to characterize an aggre-gate information state that provides a general back-ground for interpretation (Bunt, 2000).We argue in this paper that such integrated mod-els enable systems to calculate useful, fine-grainedutterance interpretations from radically underspec-ified semantic forms.
We focus in particular onvague scalar predicates like small or long.
Thesepredicates typify qualitative linguistic expression ofquantitative information, and are thus both chal-lenging and commonplace.
Building on a mul-tidimensional treatment of dialogue context, wedevelop and implement a theoretically-motivatedmodel of vagueness which is unique in treatingvague predicates as genuinely vague and genuinelycontext-sensitive, yet amenable to general processesof contextual and interpretive inference.1.1 Semantic insightsWe pursue our argument in the context of an imple-mented drawing application, FIGLET, which allowsusers to give English instructions to draw a carica-ture of an expressive face.
Figure 1 shows a repre-sentative interaction with FIGLET; the user gives thesuccessive instructions in (1):(1) a.
Make two small circles.b.
Draw a long line underneath.Like Di Eugenio and Webber (1996), we empha-size that understanding such instructions requirescontextual inference combining linguistic, task anddomain knowledge.
For example, consider the re-sponse to (1a) of placing circles so as to form theeyes of a new face.
To recognize the possibilityof drawing eyes exploits knowledge of the ongoingdrawing task.
To put the eyes where they belongin the upper part of the new face exploits domainknowledge.
The response to (1b) adds the linguis-tic context as another ingredient.
To identify wherethe line goes, the user uses the objects mentionedrecently in the interaction as the understood spatiallandmark for underneath.
Figure 1 highlights theimportance of using multidimensional representa-tions of dialogue context in understanding instruc-tions for quantitative domains.We leverage this background context in our com-putational approach to vagueness.
We model avague utterance like draw a long line as though itmeant draw a line with, you know, length.
In thisapproach, vague predicates are completely under-specified; linguistic knowledge says nothing abouthow long something long is.
Instead, vague lan-guage explicitly draws on the background knowl-Initial blank figure state.
After the user utters (1a):Make two small circles.After the user utters (1b):Draw a long line underneath.Figure 1: Motivating interaction: Vague instructions to draw a face.edge already being applied in utterance interpre-tation.
The user?s motivation in using long is todifferentiate an intended interpretation, here an in-tended action, from alternative possibilities in con-text.
Background knowledge already sets out therelevant ways to draw a line; drawing a long linemeans singling out some of them by the length ofthat new line.
This model recalls dynamic theo-ries of vague scalar predicates, such as the seman-tics of Kyburg and Morreau (2000), Barker (2002),or Kennedy (2003), but it is exactly implementedin FIGLET.
The implementation capitalizes on therichness of current models of context to recovercontent for the you know of vagueness.1.2 OverviewIn Section 2, we motivate approaches to the seman-tics of vague scalar predicates that associate themwith a presupposed standard of comparison.
We il-lustrate how context can be understood to supplypossible standards, and how pragmatic reasoningfrom utterances allows interlocutors to infer them.In Section 3, we establish a bridge to the generaltreatment of practical dialogue, by showing howmultiple dimensions of context generally contributeto recognizing possible interpretations for under-specified utterances.
Section 4 builds on Sections 2and 3 to show how FIGLET exploits a rich model ofutterance context to respond cooperatively to vagueutterances like (1a) and (1b), while Section 5 de-tails FIGLET?s actual implementation.
We concludein Section 6 by suggesting further challenges thatvagueness still poses for computational semantics.2 Vague standards in contextWe adopt a view of vague predicates motivated bylinguistic theory, particularly Kennedy?s approach(1999; 2003).
We assume that gradable adjectivesare associated with measurement functions mappingindividuals to degrees on a scale.
In FIGLET?s draw-ing domain, the relevant measurements pertain tospatial properties.
For long, for example, the mea-surement maps individuals to their spatial lengths;for small, it maps individuals to degrees on an in-verted scale of size.Positive gradable adjectives compare measureddegrees against a standard on the scale which is de-rived from context.
For example, long says that anobject?s length exceeds the threshold set by the cur-rent standard for length.
Other forms, such as com-parative adjectives or adjectives with explicit mea-sure phrases, compare degrees differently.Importantly, grammar says nothing about howstandards for positive gradable adjectives are de-rived.
In other words, contra Cresswell (1977) andothers, the interpretation of adjectives is not com-puted relative to a grammatically-specified ?com-parison class?
of related objects.
And, contra Oateset al (2000) and Roy and Pentland (2002), the in-terpretation of adjectives need not require statisticalknowledge about how objects with different mea-surements on a scale tend to be described.
Instead,standards are derived directly from an evolving con-text by the general principles that govern pragmaticresolution of context dependence.Kennedy synthesizes a range of evidence for thisclaim.
Here we go further, and provide a formal,implemented model.
We can sketch the evidenceand our model by considering two key examples.First, we illustrate that vagueness depends di-rectly on specific contextually-relevant distinctions.Consider the session with FIGLET shown in Fig-ure 2.
The user has elected to draw two objects side-by-side.
The initial context just contains a square.The user utters (2).
(2) Make a small circle.To interpret (2) it doesn?t seem to help to appeal togeneral knowledge about how big circles tend to be.
(It?s quite convoluted to even frame the idea in asensible way.)
Graff (2000) observes that standardsoften implicitly appeal to what we expect about par-ticular individuals, not just what we know aboutsimilar individuals.
In context, here, the user justseems to be asking for a circle vaguely smaller thanthe square.
This is the interpretation FIGLET builds;to comply, FIGLET draws the circle an arbitrary butrepresentative possible size.
The point is that salientobjects and actions inevitably set up meaningful dis-Initial figure state.
After the user utters (2).
Initial figure state.
After the user utters (3).Figure 2: Taking standards from context in (2):Make a small circle.Figure 3: Disambiguating contextual standardsin (3): Make the small square a circle.tinctions in the context.
Interlocutors exploit thesedistinctions in using vague adjectives.Figure 3 illustrates that understanding vaguenessis part of a general problem of understanding utter-ances.
Figure 3 shows FIGLET?s action in a morecomplex context, containing two squares of differ-ent sizes.
We consider the user?s instruction (3):(3) Make the small square a circle.FIGLET?s action changes the smaller of the twosquares.
The standard behind this interpretationis implicitly set to differentiate the contextually-salient objects from one another; the natural reso-lution of (3) does not require that either square bedefinitely small (Kyburg and Morreau, 2000).
InFigure 3, for example, there are different potentialstandards that would admit either both squares orneither square as small.
However, we can rule outthese candidate standards in interpreting (3).
Theuser?s communicative intention must explain howa unique square from the context can be identifiedfrom (3) using a presupposed small standard.
If thatstandard is too big, both squares will fit.
If that stan-dard is too small, neither square will fit.
Only whenthat standard falls between the sizes of the squaresdoes (3) identify a unique square.The examples in Figures 2 and 3 show two waysnew standards can be established.
Once established,however, standards become part of the evolvingcontext (Barker, 2002).
Old standards serve as de-faults in interpreting subsequent utterances.
Onlyif no better interpretation is found will FIGLET goback and reconsider its standard.
This too is generalpragmatic reasoning (Stone and Thomason, 2003).3 Dimensions of context in interpretationTo cash out our account of contextual reasoningwith vagueness, we need to characterize the con-text for practical dialogue.
Our account presupposesa context comprising domain and situation knowl-edge, task context and linguistic context.
In this sec-tion, we survey each of these dimensions of context,and show how they converge in the resolution of un-derspecification across a wide range utterances.Domain and situation knowledge describes thecommonsense structure of the real-world objectsand actions under discussion.
Practical dialogue re-stricts this otherwise open-ended specification to thecircumscribed facts that are directly relevant to anongoing collaboration.
For example, in our drawingdomain, individuals are categorized by a few types:types of shape such as circles and squares; and typesof depiction such as eyes and heads.
These typescome with corresponding constraints on individuals.For example, the shape of a mouth may be a line, anellipse, or a rectangle, while the shape of a head canonly be an ellipse.
These constraints contribute tointerpretation.
For instance, a head can never be de-scribed as a line, for example, since heads cannothave this shape.Task context tracks collaborators?
evolving com-mitment to shared goals and plans during joint ac-tivity.
In FIGLET?s drawing domain, available ac-tions allow users to build figure parts by introducingshapes and revising them.
Our experience is thatusers?
domain plans organize these actions hierar-chically into strategic patterns.
For example, userstend to complete the structures they begin drawingbefore drawing elsewhere; and once they are satis-fied with what they have, they proceed in naturalsequence to a new part nearby.
Task context playsa powerful role in finding natural utterance inter-pretations.
By recording a plan representation andkeeping track of progress in carrying it out, FIGLEThas access to a set of candidate next actions at eachpoint in an interaction.
Matching the user?s utter-ance against this candidate set restricts the interpre-tation of instructions based on the drawing alreadycreated and the user?s focus of attention within it.For example, if the user has just drawn the right eyeonto an empty face, they are likely to turn to the lefteye next.
This context suggests making a winkingleft eye in response to draw a line, an interpretationthat might not otherwise be salient.Linguistic context records the evolving statusof pragmatic distinctions triggered by grammaticalconventions.
One role of the linguistic context is itscontribution to distinguishing the prominent entitiesInitial figure state.
After the user utters (4):Draw a line underneath.Figure 4: Context in instructions.that can serve as the referents of pronouns and otherreduced expressions.
To see this, note that, as faras domain knowledge and task context go, the in-struction make it bigger could apply to any objectcurrently being created.
If the figure is hierarchi-cal, there will be many possibilities.
Yet we typi-cally understand it to refer specifically to an objectmentioned saliently in the previous utterance.
Thelinguistic context helps disambiguate it.Figure 4 illustrates how the three different dimen-sions of context work together.
It illustrates an inter-action with FIGLET where the user has just issued aninstruction to create two eyes, resulting in the figurestate shown at the left in Figure 4.
The user?s nextinstruction is (4):(4) Draw a line underneath.We focus on how the context constrains the positionand orientation of the line.Linguistic context indicates that underneathshould be understood as underneath the eyes.
Thisprovides one constraint on the placement of the line.Task context makes drawing the mouth a plausiblecandidate next action.
Domain knowledge showsthat the mouth can be a line, but only if furtherconstraints on position, orientation and length aremet.
In understanding the instruction, FIGLET ap-plies all these contextual constraints simultaneously.The set of consistent solutions?drawing a horizon-tal line at a range of plausible mouth positions be-low the eyes?constitutes the utterance interpreta-tion.
FIGLET acts to create the result in Figure 4 bychoosing a representative action from this set.4 Interpreting vague utterances in contextIn our approach, the linguistic context stores agreedstandards for vague predicates.
Candidate standardsare determined using information available from do-main knowledge and the current task context.
InFIGLET?s drawing domain, possibilities include theactual measurements of objects that have alreadybeen drawn.
They also include the default domainmeasurements for new objects that task context sayscould be added.
Setting standards by a measure-ment is our shorthand for adopting an implicit rangeof compatible standards; these standards remainvague, especially since many options are normallyavailable (Graff, 2000).We treat the use of new candidate standards in in-terpretation as a case of presupposition accommo-dation (Bos, 2003).
In presupposition accommo-dation, the interpretation of an utterance must beconstructed using a context that differs from the ac-tual context.
When speakers use an utterance whichrequires accommodation, they typically expect thatinterlocutors will update the dialogue context to in-clude the additional presumptions the utterance re-quires.
We assume that all accommodation is sub-ject to two Gricean constraints.
First, we assumewhenever possible that an utterance should have auniquely identifiable intended interpretation in thecontext in which it is to be interpreted.
Second, weassume that when interpretations in alternative con-texts are available, the speaker is committed to thestrongest one?compare Dalrymple et al (1998).Inferring standards for vague predicates is a specialcase of this general Gricean reasoning.The principles articulated thus far in Sections 2?4allow us to offer a precise explanation of FIGLET?sbehavior as depicted in Figure 1.
The user startsdrawing a face with an empty figure.
In this domainand task context, make two circles fits a number ofpossible actions.
For example, it fits the action ofdrawing a round head and its gaping mouth.
How-ever, in (1a), what the user actually says is maketwo small circles.
The interpretation for (1a) mustaccommodate a standard for small and select fromthe continuum of size possibilities two new circlesthat meet this standard.The standards in this context are associated withthe size distinctions among potential new objects.The different qualitative behavior of these standardsin interpretation can be illustrated by the standardsset from possible new circular objects that are con-sistent with the face-drawing task.
We can set thestandard from the default size of an eye, from thedefault size of a mouth (larger), or from the defaultsize of a head (larger still).1 Because each stan-dard allows all smaller objects to be created next,these standards lead to 1, 3, and 6 interpretations,respectively.
So we recover the standard from theeye, which results in a unique interpretation.21Since the default sizes of new objects reflect the relativedimensions of any other objects already in the figure, FIGLET?sdefault sizes are not generally equivalent to static comparisonclasses.2Note that there are many potential sources of standards forsmall that FIGLET does not currently pursue.
E.g.
the averagesize of all objects already in the figure.
We believe that generalIn tandem with its response, FIGLET tracks thechanges to the context.
The task context is updatedto note that the user has drawn the eyes and mustcontinue with the process of creating and revisingthe features of the face.
The linguistic context isupdated to include the new small standard, and toplace the eyes in focus.This updated context provides the backgroundfor (1b), the user?s next instruction draw a longline underneath.
In this context, as we saw withFigure 4, context makes it clear that any responseto draw a line underneath must draw the mouth.Thus, unlike in (1a), all the interpretations here havethe same qualitative form.
Nevertheless, FIGLET?sGricean reasoning can still adjust the standard forlength to differentiate interpretations quantitatively,and thereby motivate the user?s use of the word longin the instruction.
FIGLET bases its possible stan-dards for length on both actual and potential ob-jects.
It can set the standard from an actual eye orfrom the two eyes together; and it can set the stan-dard from the default mouth or head.
The mouth, ofcourse, must fit inside the head; the largest standardis ruled out.
All the other standards lead to uniqueinterpretations.
Since the length of the two eyes to-gether is the strictest of the remaining standards, itis adopted.
This interpretation leads FIGLET to theresponse illustrated at the right in Figure 1.5 ImplementationWe have implemented FIGLET in Prolog usingCLP(R) real constraints (Jaffar and Lassez, 1987)for metric and spatial reasoning.
This sectionpresents a necessarily brief overview of this imple-mentation; we highlight how FIGLET is able to ex-actly implement the semantic representations andpragmatic reasoning presented in Sections 2?4.
Weoffer a detailed description of our system and dis-cuss some of the challenges of building it in DeVaultand Stone (2003).5.1 Semantic representationIn FIGLET, we record the semantics of user instruc-tions using constraints, or logical conjunctions ofopen atomic formulas, to represent the contextualrequirements that utterances impose; we view theseconstraints as presuppositions that speakers make inusing the utterance.
We assume matches take theform of instances that supply particular domain rep-resentations as suitable values for variables.
Stone(2003) motivates this framework in detail.methods for specifying domain knowledge will help providethe meaningful task distinctions that serve as candidate stan-dards for vague predicates on our approach, but pursuing thishypothesis is beyond the scope of this paper.In (5a-d), we show the presuppositions FIGLETassigns to an utterance of Make two small circles,arranged to show the contributions of each individ-ual word.
In (5e), we show the contribution madeby the utterance to an evolving dialogue; the effectis to propose that an action be carried out.
(5) a. simple(A)?
target(A,X)?fits plan(A)?holds(result(A,now),visible(X))?holds(now, invisible(X))?b.
number(X ,2)?c.
standard(small,S)?holds(result(A,now),small(X ,S))?d.
number(X ,multiple)?holds(result(A,now),shape(X ,circle))e. propose(A)We formulate these constraints in an expressiveontology.
We have terms and variables for ac-tions, such as A; for situations, such as now andresult(A,now); for objects, such as X ; for stan-dards for gradable vague predicates (scale-thresholdpairs), such as S; and for quantitative points and in-tervals of varying dimensionality, as necessary.5.2 Pragmatic reasoningConstraint networks such as (5a-e) provide a uni-form venue for describing the various contextualdependencies required to arrive at natural utteranceinterpretations.
Thus, the contextual representationand reasoning outlined in Sections 3 and 4 is real-ized by a uniform mechanism in FIGLET: specifica-tions of how to reason from context to find solutionsto these constraints.For example, Section 3 described domain knowl-edge that links particular object types like eyes andheads with type-specific constraints.
In our imple-mentation, we specify real and finite constraints thatindividuals of each type must satisfy.
In order for anindividual e of type t to serve as part of a solutionto a constraint network like (5a-e), e must addition-ally meet the constraints associated with type t. Inthis way, FIGLET requires utterance interpretationsto respect domain knowledge.Solving many of the constraints appearing in (5a-e) requires contextual reasoning about domain ac-tions and their consequences.
Some constraintscharacterize actions directly; thus simple(A) meansthat A is a natural domain action rather thanan abstruse one.
Constraints can describe theeffects of actions by reference to the state ofthe visual display in hypothetical situations; thusholds(result(A,now),shape(X ,circle)) means thatthe individual X has a circular shape once actionA is carried out.
Constraints can additionally char-acterize causal relationships in the domain; thustarget(A,X) means that action A directly affects X ,and the constraints of (5a-d) together mean that car-rying out action A in the current situation causes twosmall circles to become visible.
These constraintsare proved in FIGLET by what is in effect a plannerthat can find complex actions that achieve specifiedeffects via a repertoire of basic domain actions.Task context is brought to bear on interpretationthrough the fits plan(A) constraint of (5a).
FIGLETuses a standard hierarchical, partially ordered planrepresentation to record the structure of a user?stask.
We specify the solutions to fits plan(A) tobe just those actions A that are possible next stepsgiven the user?s current state in achieving the task.Since these task-appropriate actions can factor addi-tional constraints into interpretation, enforcing thefits plan(A) constraint can help FIGLET identify anatural interpretation.As discussed in Section 4, FIGLET records alist of current standards for vague scalar adjec-tives in the linguistic context.
The constraintstandard(small,S) of (5c) connects the overall ut-terance interpretation to the available standards forsmall in the linguistic context.
FIGLET interprets ut-terances carrying semantic constraints of the formstandard(vague-predicate,S) in one or two stages.In the first stage, the constraint is solved just incase S is the prevailing standard for vague-predicatein the linguistic context.
If there is no prevailingstandard for an evoked vague property, or if thisstage does not yield a unique utterance interpreta-tion, then FIGLET moves to a second stage in whichthe constraint is solved for any standard that cap-tures a relevant distinction for vague-predicate inthe context.
If there is a strongest standard that re-sults in a unique interpretation, it is adopted and in-tegrated into the new linguistic context.5.3 Parsing and InterpretationLanguage understanding in FIGLET is mediated by abottom-up chart parser written in Prolog.
As usual,chart edges indicate the presence of recognized par-tial constituents within the input sequence.
In ad-dition, edges now carry constraint networks thatspecify the contextual reasoning required for under-standing.
In addition to finite instances (Schuler,2001), these networks include real constraints thatformalize metric and spatial relationships.
Interpre-tation of these networks is carried out incremen-tally, during parsing; each edge thus records a setof associated candidate interpretations.
Since do-main reasoning can be somewhat time-intensive inour current implementation, we adopt a strategyof delaying the solution of certain constraints untilenough lexical material has accrued that the asso-ciated problem-solving is judged tractable (DeVaultand Stone, 2003).6 Assessment and ConclusionIn our approach, we specify a genuinely vague se-mantics: vague words evoke a domain-specific scalethat can differentiate alternative domain individuals.To find a unique interpretation for a vague utter-ance, we leverage ordinary inference about the do-main, task, and linguistic context to recover implicitthresholds on this scale.We believe that further methodological advanceswill be required to evaluate treatments of vaguenessin indefinite reference, such as that considered here.For example, obviously the very idea of a ?goldstandard?
for resolution of vagueness is problem-atic.
We believe that the best argument for a theoryof vagueness in a language interface would showthat naive users of the interface are, on the whole,likely to accept its vague interpretations and un-likely to renegotiate them through clarification.
Butthe experiment would have to rule out confoundingfactors such as poorly-modeled lexical representa-tion and context tracking as sources for system in-terpretations that users reject.We intend to take up the methodological chal-lenges necessary to construct such an argument infuture work.
In the meantime, while our current im-plementation of FIGLET exhibits the promising be-havior discussed in this paper and illustrated in Fig-ures 1?4, some minor engineering unrelated to lan-guage understanding remains before a fruitful eval-uation can take place.
As alluded to above, the tightintegration of contextual reasoning and interpreta-tion that FIGLET carries out can be expensive if notpursued efficiently.
While our initial implementa-tion achieves a level of performance that we acceptas researchers (interpretation times of between oneand a few tens of seconds), evaluation requires us toimprove FIGLET?s performance to levels that exper-imental participants will accept as volunteers.
Ouranalysis of FIGLET indicates that this performancecan in fact be achieved with better-regimented do-main problem-solving.Nevertheless, we emphasize the empirical andcomputational arguments we already have in sup-port of our model.
Our close links with the linguis-tic literature mean that major empirical errors wouldbe surprising and important across the language sci-ences.
Indeed, limited evaluations of treatments ofvague definite reference using standards of differ-entiation or very similar ideas have been promising(Gorniak and Roy, In Press).
The computational ap-peal is that all the expensive infrastructure requiredto pursue the account is independently necessary.Once this infrastructure is in place the account isreadily implemented with small penalty of perfor-mance and development time.
It is particularly at-tractive that the approach requires minimal lexicalknowledge and training data.
This means addingnew vague words to an interface is a snap.Overall, our new model offers three contribu-tions.
Most importantly, of course, we have devel-oped a computational model of vagueness in termsof underspecified quantitative constraints.
But wehave also presented a new demonstration of the im-portance and the feasibility of using multidimen-sional representations of dialogue context in under-standing descriptions of quantitative domains.
Andwe have introduced an architecture for resolving un-derspecification through uniform pragmatic mech-anisms based on context-dependent collaboration.Together, these developments allow us to circum-scribe possible resolutions for underspecified utter-ances, to zero in on those that the speaker and hearercould adopt consistently and collaboratively, andso to constrain the speaker?s intended meaning towithin a natural range.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Kees van Deemter and our anonymous re-viewers for valuable comments.
This work was sup-ported by NSF grant HLC 0308121.ReferencesJ.
Allen, D. Byron, M. Dzikovska, G. Ferguson,L.
Galescu, and A. Stent.
2001.
Towards conver-sational human-computer interaction.
AI Maga-zine, 22(4):27?37.N.
Asher and A. Lascarides.
2003.
Logics of Con-versation.
Cambridge.C.
Barker.
2002.
The dynamics of vagueness.
Lin-guistics and Philosophy, 25(1):1?36.J.
Bos.
2003.
Implementing the binding andaccommodation theory for anaphora resolutionand presupposition.
Computational Linguistics,29(2):179?210.H.
Bunt.
2000.
Dialogue pragmatics and contextspecification.
In H. Bunt and W. Black, editors,Abduction, Belief and Context in Dialogue, pages81?150.
Benjamin.M.
Cresswell.
1977.
The semantics of degree.
InB.
H. Partee, editor, Montague Grammar, pages261?292.
Academic.M.
Dalrymple, M. Kanazawa, Y. Kim, S. Mchombo,and S. Peters.
1998.
Reciprocal expressions andthe concept of reciprocity.
Linguistics and Phi-losophy, 21(2):159?210.D.
DeVault and M. Stone.
2003.
Domain inferencein incremental interpretation.
In Proc.
ICoS.B.
Di Eugenio and B. Webber.
1996.
Pragmaticoverloading in natural language instructions.
Int.Journal of Expert Systems, 9(2):53?84.J.
Ginzburg and R. Cooper.
2001.
Resolving ellip-sis in clarification.
In Proc.
ACL.P.
Gorniak and D. Roy.
In Press.
Grounded seman-tic composition for visual scenes.
Journal of Ar-tificial Intelligence Research.D.
Graff.
2000.
Shifting sands: An interest-relative theory of vagueness.
Philosophical Top-ics, 28(1):45?81.J.
Hobbs, M. Stickel, D. Appelt, and P. Martin.1993.
Interpretation as abduction.
Artificial In-telligence, 63:69?142.J.
Jaffar and J.-L. Lassez.
1987.
Constraint logicprogramming.
In Proc.
POPL, pages 111?119.C.
Kennedy.
1999.
Projecting the adjective: Thesyntax and semantics of gradability and compar-ison.
Garland.C.
Kennedy.
2003.
Towards a grammar of vague-ness.
Manuscript, Northwestern.A.
Kyburg and M. Morreau.
2000.
Fitting words:Vague words in context.
Linguistics and Philos-ophy, 23(6):577?597.S.
Larsson and D. Traum.
2000.
Information stateand dialogue management in the TRINDI dia-logue move engine toolkit.
Natural LanguageEngineering, 6:323?340.T.
Oates, M. D. Schmill, and P. R. Cohen.
2000.Toward natural language interfaces for roboticagents.
In Proc.
Agents, pages 227?228.C.
Rich, C. L. Sidner, and N. Lesh.
2001.
COL-LAGEN: applying collaborative discourse the-ory to human-computer interaction.
AI Maga-zine, 22(4):15?26.D.
Roy and A. Pentland.
2002.
Learning wordsfrom sights and sounds: A computational model.Cognitive Science, 26(1):113?146.W.
Schuler.
2001.
Computational properties ofenvironment-based disambiguation.
In Proc.ACL, pages 466?473.M.
Stone and R. H. Thomason.
2003.
Coordinat-ing understanding and generation in an abductiveapproach to interpretation.
In Proc.
DiaBruck,pages 131?138.M.
Stone.
2003.
Knowledge representation for lan-guage engineering.
In A. Farghaly, editor, AHandbook for Language Engineers, pages 299?366.
CSLI.
