Medical WordNet:A New Methodology for the Construction and Validation of InformationResources for Consumer HealthBarry SMITHDepartment of PhilosophyUniversity at BuffaloBuffalo, NY 14260, USAandInstitute for Formal Ontologyand Medical Information ScienceSaarland UniversityD-66041 Saarbr?cken, Germanyphismith@buffalo.eduChristiane FELLBAUMDepartment of PsychologyPrinceton UniversityPrinceton, NJ 08544, USAandBerlin-Brandenburg Academy of SciencesBerlin, Germanyfellbaum@princeton.eduAbstractA consumer health information system mustbe able to comprehend both expert and non-expert medical vocabulary and to mapbetween the two.
We describe an ongoingproject to create a new lexical database calledMedical WordNet (MWN), consisting ofmedically relevant terms used by and intel-ligible to non-expert subjects and supple-mented by a corpus of natural-languagesentences that is designed to providemedically validated contexts for MWN terms.The corpus derives primarily from onlinehealth information sources targeted toconsumers, and involves two sub-corpora,called Medical FactNet (MFN) and MedicalBeliefNet (MBN), respectively.
The formerconsists of statements accredited as true onthe basis of a rigorous process of validation,the latter of statements which non-expertsbelieve to be true.
We summarize the MWN /MFN / MBN project, and describe some of itsapplications.1 From WordNet to Medical WordNetWordNet is the principal lexical database usedin natural language processing (NLP) researchand applications.
(Miller, 1995), (Fellbaum, ed.,1998) While WordNet?s current version (2.0) hasbroad medical coverage, it manifests a number ofdefects, which reflect both the lack of domainexpertise on the part of the responsiblelexicographers, and also the fact that WordNetwas not built for domain-specific applications.The research community has long been aware ofthese defects (Magnini and Strapparava, 2001),(Bodenreider and Burgun, 2002), (Burgun andBodenreider, 2001), (Bodenreider, et al, 2003).Our response is to create Medical WordNet(MWN), a free-standing lexical database designedspecifically for the needs of natural-languageprocessing in the medical domain, with the goal ofremoving the ?noise?
which is associated with theapplication of WordNet and similar resources tothis specialized domain.MWN?s initial focus is on English single-wordexpressions as used and understood by non-experts.
We systematically review WordNet?sexisting medical coverage by assembling a vali-dated corpus of sentences involving specificmedically relevant vocabulary.
Input to ourvalidation process includes the definitions ofmedical terms already existing in WordNet, andalso sentences generated via the semantic rela-tions linking such terms in WordNet.
In addition,input includes sentences derived from onlinemedical information services targeted toconsumers.Our methodology is designed (1) to documentnatural language sentential contexts for eachrelevant word sense in such a way that theexpressed information can be (2) validated bymedical experts and (3) accessed automatically byNLP applications such as information retrieval,machine translation, question-answer systems,and text summarization.A major stumbling block for existing NLPapplications is automatic sense disambiguation.An automatic system can detect with highreliability that a given occurrence of a word likefeel or dead is a verb or adjective.
But it cannoteasily determine which of a variety of alternativemeanings such polysemous words have in anygiven context.WordNet?s architecture, designed for repre-senting and distinguishing word senses, has madean important contribution towards a solution ofthe automatic word sense disambiguation prob-lem.
Our corpus of English language sentencesrelating to medical phenomena is designed tobuild upon this contribution.
The corpus isrestricted to grammatically complete, syntacticallysimple sentences in natural language which havebeen rated as understandable by non-experthuman subjects in controlled questionnaire-basedexperiments.
It is restricted in addition to sen-tences which are self-contained in the sense thatthey make no reference to any prior context anddo not contain any proper names, or anaphoricelements (like it or he or then) that need to be in-terpreted with respect to other sentences or somesurrounding discourse or context.
This corpus isdesigned to be used initially for purposes ofquality assurance of MWN and also to support thepopulation of MWN by yielding new families ofwords and word senses for inclusion.
As willbecome clear, however, our use of humanvalidators will allow us to extend the usefulnessof the corpus in a variety of ways.
Thus we canuse it to build new sorts of applications forinformation retrieval in the domain of consumerhealth.
But it also allows new avenues of researchin linguistics and psychology, for example inallowing us to explore individual and groupdifferences in medical knowledge and vocabulary,and in understanding non-expert medicalreasoning and decision-making.2 Medical FactNet and Medical BeliefNetTo this end, however, we need to exploit ourvalidation data to create two sententialsubcorpora, called Medical FactNet (MFN) andMedical BeliefNet (MBN), respectively.MFN consists of those sentences in the corpuswhich receive high marks for correctness onbeing assessed by medical experts.
MFN is thusdesigned to constitute a representative fraction ofthe true beliefs about medical phenomena whichare intelligible to non-expert English-speakers.MBN consists of those sentences in the corpuswhich receive high marks for assent.
MBN is thusdesigned to constitute a representative fraction ofthe beliefs about medical phenomena (both trueand false) distributed through the population ofEnglish speakers.The validation process that is involved in theconstruction of MFN is used to detect errors in theexisting WordNet, and also to ensure that thecoverage of the natural language medical lexiconin MWN is of a scientific level sufficient to allowMWN technology to work in tandem withterminology and ontology systems designed foruse by experts.Both MFN and MBN inherit from MWN theformal architecture of the Princeton WordNet.
(Fellbaum, ed., 1998) However, we enhance thisarchitecture to maximize its usefulness in medicalinformation retrieval.Compiling MFN and MBN in tandem allowssystematic assessment of the disparity betweenlay beliefs and vocabulary as concerns medicalphenomena and the corresponding expert medicalknowledge.
The ultimate goal of our work onMFN is to document the entirety of the medicalknowledge that can be understood by averageadult consumers of healthcare services in theUnited States today.
If the methodology for thecreation and validation of the corpus heredescribed proves successful, then we believe thatthe preconditions for the realization of this muchlarger goal will have been established.
Responsesfrom NLP researchers and from online informa-tion providers to our initial work on MFN/MBNconvinces us that this realization would haveconsiderable significance for the management andretrieval of consumer health information in thefuture.3  Background and MotivationRecent studies of the use of computer-basedtools for consumer health information retrievalpoint to a mismatch between existing tools andthe non-expert language used by most consumers?
the language used not only by patients but alsoby family members, advisors, administrators,lawyers, and so forth, and to some degree also bynurses and physicians.
(Slaughter, 2002), (C. A.Smith, et al, 2002), (Tse, 2003), (Tse andSoergel, 2003), (McCray and Tse, 2003), (Zeng,et al, in press)Where the usage of medical terms byprofessionals is at least in principle subject tocontrol by standardization efforts, the highlycontextually dependent usage of medical terms onthe part of lay persons is much more difficult tocapture in applications ?
and this in spite of thefact that it is in many ways simpler than expertusage.
The taxonomies reflecting popularlexicalizations in all domains are indeed muchless elaborate at both the upper and lower levelsthan in the corresponding technical lexica.
(Medinand Atran, eds., 1999) Thus there are no popularterms linking infectious disease and mumps, sothat in the popular medical taxonomy of diseasesthe former immediately subsumes the latter.
Thepopular medical vocabulary naturally covers onlya small segment of the encyclopedic vocabularyof medical professionalsm, and it lexicalizesmainly at the level of taxonomic orders.
Popularmedical terms (flu) are often fuzzier than technicalmedical terms.
Many popular terms also cover alarger range of referent types than do technicalterms; others may cover only part of the extensionof their technical counterparts.
We hypothesize,however, that with few exceptions the focalmeanings (Berlin and Kay, 1969) of expert andnon-expert terms will be identical.
ConstructingMFN and MBN allows us to test this and relatedhypotheses in a systematic way.4 Mismatches in Doctor-PatientCommunicationThe skills of a physician in general practicecomprise the ability to acquire relevant andreliable information through communication withpatients through the use of non-expert languageand to convey diagnostic and therapeuticinformation in ways tailored to the individualpatient.Since the physician, too, is a member of thewider community of non-experts, and continues touse the non-expert language for everydaypurposes, one might assume that there are nodifficulties in principle keeping him from beingable to formulate medical knowledge in avocabulary that the patient can understand.
As(Slaughter, 2002) and (C. A. Smith, et al, 2002)have shown, however, there are limits to thiscompetence.
The former examines dialoguebetween physicians and patients in the form ofquestion-answer pairs, focusing especially on therelations documented in the UMLS SemanticNetwork.
Only some 30% of the relations used byprofessionals in their answers directly match therelations used by consumers in formulating theirquestions.
An example of one such question-answer pair is taken from (Slaughter, p. 224):Question Text: My seven-year-old son developed arash today that I believe to be chickenpox.
My concernis that a friend of mine had her 10-day-old baby at myhome last evening before we were aware of the illness.My son had no contact with the infant, as he was in bedduring the visit, but I have read that chickenpox iscontagious up to two days prior to the actual rash.
Isthere cause for concern at this point?Answer Text: (a) Chickenpox is the common namefor varicella infection.
[...] (b) You are correct in that aperson with chickenpox can be contagious for 48 hoursbefore the first vesicle is seen.
[...] (c) The fact thatyour son did not come in close contact with the infantmeans he most likely did not transmit the virus.
(d) Ofconcern, though, is the fact that newborns are at higherrisk of complications of varicella, including pneumo-nia.
[...] (e) There is a very effective means to preventinfection after exposure.
A form of antibody tovaricella called varicella-zoster immune globulin(VZIG) can be given up to 48 hours after exposure andstill prevent disease.Such examples illustrate also that there arelexically rooted mismatches in communication(which may in part reflect legal and ethicalconsiderations) between experts and non-experts.Professionals often do not re-use the concepts andrelations made explicit in the questions put tothem by consumers.
In our example, thequestioner requests a yes/no-judgment on thepossibility of contagion in a 10-day-old baby.
Infact, however, only section (c) of the answerresponds to this question, and this in a way whichinvolves multiple departures from the type of non-expert language which the questioner can bepresumed to understand.
Rather, physiciansexpand the range of concepts and relationsaddressed (for example through discussion ofissues of prevention, etc.
).In all cases, the information source, whether itbe a primary care physician or an online informa-tion system, must respond primarily with genericinformation (i.e.
with information that is inde-pendent of case or context), and this is so evenwhere requests relate to specific and episodicphenomena (occurrences of pain, fever, reactionsto drugs, etc.).
(Patel, et al, 2002) In our example,all sections except for (c) are of this generic kind.They contain answers in the form of context-independent statements about causality, abouttypes of persons or diseases, about typical orpossible courses of a disease.
MFN is accordinglydesigned to map the generic medical informationwhich non-experts are able to understand.5 Non-Expert Language in OnlineCommunicationUnderstanding patients requires both explicitmedical knowledge and tacit linguisticcompetence dispersed across large numbers ofmore or less isolated practitioners.
This is not aproblem so long as this knowledge is to be appliedlocally, in face-to-face communication withpatients.
However, as a result of recent develop-ments in technology, including telemedicine andinternet-based medical query systems, we nowface a situation where such dispersed, practical(human) knowledge does not suffice.
(Ely, et al, 2000) and (Jacquemart andZweigenbaum, 2003) have shown that clinicalquestions are expressed in a small number ofdifferent syntactic-semantic patterns (about 60patterns account for 90% of the questions).
Suchyes/no questions are of the forms: Do hair dyescause cancer?, Can I use aspirin to treat ahangover?
With the right sort of informationresource, questions such as these can easily betransformed automatically into statementsproviding correct answers: Hair dyes can causebladder cancer, Aspirin doesn?t help in case of ahangover , and these answers can be linkedfurther to relevant and authoritative sources.MEDLINEplus is described in its onlinedocumentation as a source of medical informationfor both experts and non-experts ?that isauthoritative and up to date.?
Enquirers can useMEDLINEplus like a dictionary, choosing healthtopics by keywords.
Alternatively, they can usethe system?s search feature to gain access to adatabase of relevant online documents selected forreliability and accessibility on the basis of pre-established criteria.Table 1 shows the problems that can arise whena system fails to take account of the specialfeatures of the knowledge and vocabulary oftypical non-expert users.
Here success in findingthe needed information depends too narrowly onthe precise formulation of the query text.
Thustremble and trembling call forth differentresponses (one lists caffeine, the other phobias),even though the terms in question differ only in amorphological affix that does not involve ameaning distinction.
Such problems arecharacteristic of information services of this kind.Experienced internet users are of course familiarwith the limitations of search engines, and so theyare able to manipulate their query texts in order toget more and better results.
Even experiencedusers, however, will not be able to overcome thearbitrary sensitivities of an information system,and the latter cannot have the goal of bringingnon-experts?
ways of using language into linewith that of the system.6 Corpus- and Fact-Based Approaches toInformation Retrieval(Patel, et al, 2002) make clear that if a medicalinformation system is to mediate between expertsand non-experts, then it must rest on anunderstanding of both expert and non-expertmedical vocabulary.
But terms, or word forms, arenot always associated with word meanings in aclear-cut and unambiguous fashion; and theproblem of polysemy is compounded whendifferent speaker populations are involved.
Alexical database must represent all and only themeanings of each given term in such a way thatthese meanings can be clearly discriminated andmapped onto word occurrences in natural text andspeech.
Achieving these ends is one of the hardestchallenges facing both theoretical and appliedlinguistic science today.
It is generally agreed thatthe meanings of highly polysemous terms cannotbe discriminated without consideration of theircontexts (e.g., Pustejovsky, 1995).
People managepolysemy without apparent difficulties; butmodeling human speakers?
capacity for lexicaldisambiguation in automatic language processingtasks is hard.
The idea underlying the presentproposal draws on currently emerging NLPmethodologies that harness the ability of powerfuland fast computers to store and manipulate bothlexical databases and large collections of text col-lections or corpora.
The strategy is to train auto-matic systems on large numbers of semanticallyannotated sentences that are naturally used andunderstood by human beings, and to exploitstandard pattern-recognition and statistical tech-niques for purposes of disambiguation.
Words andthe representation of their senses, stored in lexicaldatabases, can be linked for this purpose tospecific occurrences in corpora.7 Related WorkCurrently, several resources are being built inthe spirit of this methodology.
Examples areFrameNet (Baker, et al, 1998), (Baker, et al,2003) and Penn Proposition Bank (Kingsbury andPalmer, 2002), both of which focus on word usagein general, rather than on domain-specificcontexts.
In contrast to our own project, neither ofthe mentioned resources attempts to build acorpus in a systematic way that is designed toensure adequate coverage of some given domain.Furthermore, neither project is concerned with thequestions of factuality or validation of statements.Another project with goals similar to those ofMFN is the CYC (short for enCYClopedia)knowledge base, a collection of hundreds ofthousands of statements, mostly about the externalworld, such as: The earth is round, Albany is thecapital of New York.
(Lenat, 1995), (Guha, et al,1990) These statements, which were entered overmany years by CYC employees, are parcelled outinto separate micro-theories devoted to differentdomains.
(On CYCs medical coverage see(Bodenreider and Burgun, in press).
)Query text MEDLINEplus?
response (with links todocuments sorted by the following keywords)tremor Tremor, Multiple Sclerosis, Parkinson?sDisease, Degenerative Nerve Diseases,Movement DisordersintentionaltremorTremor, Multiple Sclerosis, Parkinson?sDisease, Spinal Muscular Atrophy,Degenerative Nerve Diseasestremble Anxiety, Parkinson?s Disease, PanicDisorder, Caffeine, Tremortrembling Anxiety, Parkinson?s Disease, PanicDisorder, Phobias, TremorTable 1: Online-Inquiry to MEDLINEplus?
(http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus)Our work differs in a number of ways fromCYC: (i) we focus on one single (albeit verylarge) domain; (ii) CYC does not store Englishsentences but rather ?
in keeping with its goal ofbeing language-unspecific ?
statements couchedin the symbolism of a modified first-order logic;(iii) CYC incorporates folk beliefs and expertknowledge indiscriminately, and its separatemicro-theories are not designed to be consistenteither with each other or with the body ofestablished science; (iv) only a reduced part ofCYC is publicly available.8 WordNetWordNet 2.0 is a large electronic lexical data-base of English that has found wide acceptance inareas as diverse as artificial intelligence, naturallanguage processing, and psychology.
(Agirre andMartinez, 2000), (Al-Halimi and Kazman, 1998),(Artale, et al, 1997), (Basili et al, 1997),(Berwick, et al, 1990), (Burg and van de Riet1998), (Cucchiarelli and Velardi 1997), (Fellbaum1990), (Gonzalo, et al, 1998), (Harabagiu andMoldovan, 1996) Its coverage, which iscomparable to that of a collegiate dictionary,extends over some 130,000 word forms.
The mostcommon application is in information technology,where it is used for information retrieval,document classification, question-answer systems,language generation, and machine translation.WordNet was originally conceived as a full-scalemodel of human semantic organization, and itsdesign was guided by early experiments inartificial intelligence.
(Collins and Quillian, 1969)WordNet was quickly embraced by the NLPcommunity, a development that has guided itssubsequent growth and design, and WordNet isnow widely recognized as the lexical database ofchoice for NLP.
The appeal of WordNet?s designis reflected in the fact that wordnets have been,and continue to be, built in dozens of languages.Wordnets supporting many European and non-European languages are already available.
All arelinked to the original English WordNet, whichthereby functions as an interlingual index.
Inconsequence, all wordnets can be mapped to oneanother.
This means that our work on MedicalWordNet will ultimately be translatable intodozens of languages with very little additionaleffort.8.1 Architecture of WordNetThe building blocks of WordNet are synonymsets (?synsets?
), which are unordered sets ofdistinct word forms and which correspond closelyto what, in medical terminology research, arecalled ?concepts.?
Membership in a synsetrequires that the word forms express the sameconcept and are in this sense ?cognitivelysynonymous?
(Cruse, 1986).
More formally,synset members must be interchangeable in somesentential contexts without altering the truth-valueof the sentences involved.
WordNet?s architectureis thus grounded in the notion of truth-preservinginterchangeability of word forms in sententialcontexts, although research has not thus farfocused on this feature.
Constructing MedicalFactNet alows us to rectify this gap by makingexplicit the contexts in which word forms are usedin an environment that allows the systematictesting of the effects of word form substitution.Examples of synsets are {car, automobile} or{shut, close}.
WordNet 2.0 contains some115,000 synsets, with many word formsbelonging to a plurality of synsets.WordNet is a net in virtue of the fact that thesynsets are linked to one another via a smallnumber of binary relations that differ for each ofthe four syntactic categories covered by WordNet:nouns, adjectives, verbs, adverbs.
Noun synsetsare interlinked by means of the subtype (or is-a)relation, as exemplified by the pair poodle-dog,and by means of the part-of relation, asexemplified by the pair tire-car.
Verb synsets areconnected by a variety of lexical entailment rela-tions that express manner elaborations, temporalrelations, and causation (walk-limp, forget-know,show-see).
(Fellbaum, 2002), (Fellbaum, 2003)Thus if X limps, then X also walks, but not viceversa.
The links among the synsets structure thenoun and verb lexica into hierarchies, with nounhierarchies being considerably deeper than thosefor verbs.WordNet?s appeal for NLP applications stemsfrom the fact that its synset architecture can beexploited in building NLP applications that targetthe problem of automatic word sense dis-ambiguation.
Although most word forms inEnglish are monosemous (clinician, epidemic),the most frequently occurring words are highlypolysemous (host, dress, arm).
The ambiguity of apolysemous word in a context can be resolved bydistinguishing the multiple senses in terms of theirlinks to other words within the WordNet net.
Forexample, the noun club can be disambiguated byan automatic system that considers thesuperordinates of the different synsets in whichthis word form occurs: association, playing card,and stick.The information contained in WordNet is oftwo sorts: lexical (i.e.
verbal) knowledge, storedin WordNet?s synset architecture, andencyclopedic (i.e.
factual) knowledge, found inthe definitions (or ?glosses?)
associated with eachconcept.
These definitions can be problematic,however, as they were generated by lexico-graphers who were not specialists in the domainsto which the words in the synsets belong.
Often,the definitions were modelled on those found inexisting dictionaries, but in these cases, too,problems have arisen above all in the form of amismatch between definitions representingtechnical (specialist) knowledge and definitionsreflecting non-expert usage.
To resolve thisproblem each synset in MWN is augmented withtwo glosses.
One is formulated for the layman, theother in expert language.A further problem turns on the fact that thesentences included in WordNet 2.0 as illustrationsof the use of synonyms in sentential contexts donot always reflect correct or characteristic usagesof the words in the synset.
Constructing MFNaddresses this problem in a systematic way.9 Uses of WordNet in Medical Informatics(Xiao and R?sner, 2003) shows how WordNetcan be used as a tool for simplifying informationextraction from MEDLINE.
Parsing tools are usedto extract verbs from the corpus of MEDLINEabstracts, and it is then shown that very many(both low- and high-frequency) verbs are groupedtogether into WordNet synsets in such that, withinthis specific discourse domain, there is only oneconceptual relation linking all the verbs in each ofthe relevant synsets.
In this way it is possible tosimplify the process of information abstraction byreducing the number of relations that need to betaken into account in the analysis of texts.
(Buitelaar and Sacaleanu, 2001) describe workshowing how, using the German version ofWordNet, one can use statistical analysis tosupport automatic selection of the most likelysynset associated with given nouns appearing inmedical corpora.WordNet?s design allows users with specifictechnical applications to augment the database,primarily by adding new terms as leaves to theexisting branches of its subsumption and part-whole hierarchies.
Such enriched wordnets retainall of the original information, and the addedwords are semantically specified in terms ofWordNet?s relations.
(Turcato, et al, 2001) and(Buitelaar and Sacaleanu, 2002) describe anattempt to extend the German wordnet withsynsets pertaining to the medical domain usingautomatic methods, in particular the detection ofsemantic similarity from co-occurrence patterns ina domain-specific corpus.
The results, while good,are hampered by problems of lexical polysemyand by the characteristically German tendency forcompound formation, which leads to potentiallyopen-ended lexicon growth, and thus poses posinggreat problems for automatic word senserecognition and discrimination.
One clearconclusion from this study is that fully automatedlexical acquisition provides inadequate results,and that much of the work must be performedmanually.
Our proposal reflects this conclusion.
(Bodenreider and Burgun, 2002) and (Burgunand Bodenreider, 2001) characterize thedefinitions of anatomical concepts in WordNetand in various portions of the UMLS Meta-thesaurus.
They found that anatomical definitionsare characteristically of the form: superordinate +distinguishing feature (the latter expressedthrough some form of adjectival modification orrelative clause, etc.).
This way of defining wordsis in fact the canonical one (for nouns, and, tosome degree, for verbs as well) and lexico-graphers follow it as much as possible whenwriting definitions.
MWN will observe thisstandard consistently in its augmentation andstandardization of WordNet?s definitions, drawingon the results of the studies of best practice in theformulation of definitions in biomedical termi-nologies and ontologies in (Smith and Rosse,2004), (Bodenreider, et al, 2004) and (Smith, etal., 2004).10 The Medical Coverage of WordNet 2.0For the verb feel, WordNet 2.0 distinguishes inall 13 separate meanings, of which at least thefollowing have an obvious medical significance,and are handled by WordNet in rough accordancewith their usage in medical contexts:3. sense ?
(perceive by a physical sensation, e.g.,coming from the skin or muscles: He felt the wind;She felt an object brushing her arm; He felt hisflesh crawl; She felt the heat when she got out ofthe car; He feels pain when he puts pressure on hisknee.)4.
feel ?
(seem with respect to a given sensationgiven: My cold is gone ?
I feel fine today; She felttired after the long hike)10. palpate, feel ?
(examine (a body part) bypalpation: The nurse palpated the patient?sstomach; The runner felt her pulse)For the adjective dead, WordNet 2.0 distin-guishes 21 meanings, with only two approxi-mating to meanings of this term as used inmedical contexts:1. dead (vs. alive) ?
(no longer having or seemingto have or expecting to have life: The nerve is dead;A dead pallor)9. dead, deadened ?
(devoid of physical sensation;numb: his gums were dead from the Novocain)Not only does WordNet fail to distinguish thosemedically relevant meaning distinctions illustratedby phrases such as dead tissue, dead organ, deadmatter, dead cell, dead body, etc., but itsdefinition of the primary medically relevant senseof dead (as: ?no longer having or seeming to haveor expecting to have life?)
runs together threeseparate notions which it is medically important tokeep separate.WordNet recently added domain labels to manysynsets.
One such label is medicine; others aresurgery and drug.
However, it was left undecidedon what criteria terms should be selected asdomain labels and what the relations among therelevant domains should be (arguably, surgeryand drug should be included in the wider domainof medicine).
In addition, labels were notsystematically assigned to WordNet terms.Currently, when asked to output terms associatedwith medicine, the browser returns some 504nouns, verbs, and adjectives (both single wordsand phrases), representing some 270 differentsenses.
On the other hand, many cognate senseswith clear medical uses are currently not labeledin this way.
Table 2 provides examples, with themedicine label picked out in bold:autopsy#1{autopsy, necropsy, postmortem,PM, postmortem examination ?
(an examination and dissection ofa dead body to determine cause ofdeath or the changes produced bydisease)}fester#1{fester, maturate, suppurate ?
(ripen and generate pus; herwounds are festering)}festering#1{festering, suppuration,maturation ?
((medicine) theformation of morbific matter in anabscess or a vesicle and thedischarge of pus)}festering#2{pus, purulence, suppuration,ichor, sanies, festering ?
(a fluidproduct of inflammation)}infection#1{(the pathological state resultingfrom the invasion of the body bypathogenic microorganisms)}infection#3{((medicine) the invasion of thebody by pathogenicmicroorganisms and theirmultiplication which can lead totissue damage and disease)}infection#4{infection, contagion,transmission ?
(an incident inwhich an infectious disease istransmitted)}maturation#2{growth, growing, maturation,development, ontogeny,ontogenesis ?
((biology) theprocess of an individual organismgrowing organically; a purelybiological unfolding of eventsinvolved in an organism changinggradually from a simple to a morecomplex level; he proposed anindicator of osseous developmentin children)}maturation#3{festering, suppuration,maturation ?
((medicine) theformation of morbific matter in anabscess or a vesicle and thedischarge of pus)}zymosis#2{((medicine) the developmentand spread of an infectiousdisease (especially one caused bya fungus))}Table 2.
Examples of Medically Relevant Entriesin WordNet 2.0Table 2 also illustrates the degree to whichWordNet currently includes obsolete medicalterms (ichor, morbific, unction) and also termsdrawn seemingly indiscriminately from both tech-nical medical vocabularies and from naturallanguage.
Some synsets contain only folk or onlytechnical terms, some contain a mixture of both.Definitions are largely taken over from medicaldictionaries prepared for experts.To provide a preliminary estimate of the extentof WordNet?s somewhat arbitrary medicalcoverage we derived a test lexicon of 2838 single-word medical terms from an existing digitalizedlexical resource for medical language processing(LinKBase of the Belgian NLP company L&C),which was constructed independently of WordNetby medical professionals.
The method used was totransform LinKBase into an alphabeticallyordered term list and to eliminate automatically allacronyms, all multi-word terms, all proprietaryterms, all terms containing numbers, and all termslonger than 10 letters.
Remaining technical termswere then removed manually.
Of the residual2838 terms, only 11 were not present in any formin WordNet 2.0, though considerably more werenot treated adequately in regard to theirspecifically medical usages.
Almost all missingterms were compounds such as bedwetting,breastfed, coldsore.WordNet 2.0 has inadequate treatment of thesystematic polysemy of nouns like dizziness anditching.
These, like many other nouns, are bothsensations and symptoms.
The symptom role isalso not encoded for many other nouns, includingredness, retching, swelling, and so forth.
WordNetstates: a tumor is a mass of tissue and a tumor isabnormal, but not: some tumors are malignant.WordNet?s treatment of is-a, part-of and otherrelations, too, is marked by inadequacies in themedical domain.
Thus WordNet currently con-tains a verb entailment relation exemplified by thepair snore-sleep defined as: ?if someone snores,then he necessarily also sleeps.?
In medicine,however, it is recognized that it is quite possibleto snore while awake, since snoring is theredefined as the respiratory induced vibration ofglottal tissues and this is associated not only (andmost usually) with sleep but also with relaxationor obesity.Our methodology for constructing MFNinvolves the validation by experts of all relationsbetween WordNet?s medically relevant synsets.
Itprovides us with a systematic means to detectsuch errors.
Constructing MBN gives us inaddition the resources to do justice to the reasonwhy such cases were included in WordNet in thefirst place: People can only snore when they areasleep and similar sentences belong precisely tothe folk beliefs about medicine which MBNdocuments ?
not, however, to MFN.
Moregenerally, constructing MBN in tandem withMFN allows us to highlight those cases wherenon-experts and experts use the same term indifferent ways.Another family of terms currently poorlytreated in WordNet are those manifestingpolysemy along the medical/non-medical axis.For example, the medical senses of recession orrigors are not recorded in WordNet 2.0.
A lexicaldatabase for purposes of automatic sensedisambiguation must clearly differentiate all suchsenses.
(Computerized medical informationsystems do not offer the possibility of follow-upin the sort of cases of misunderstanding which wehave in communication between laypersons andmedical practitioners.)
Thus while MWN willcontain only word forms that are used by non-experts (and thus part of natural rather thantechnical language), it must for practical reasonsrecord word senses that are peculiar to thetechnical vocabulary.11 Method for Translating Online Contentinto Basic SentencesWe carried out experiments designed to test avariety of methodologies for deriving terms andsentences for our corpus, including elicitationexperiments with expert and non-expert humansubjects, and data-mining from online bulletinboards.
We established that the most promisingsources for both term- and sentence-generationare certain online information sources targetedspecifically to non-specialist users.In one experiment the basic sentences meetingour MFN/MBN criteria were derived byresearchers in medical informatics from factsheetson Airborne allergens in NIAID?s HealthInformation Publications and on Hay fever andperennial allergic rhinitis in the UK NetDoctor?sDiseases Encyclopedia.There is no good way totell the differencebetween allergysymptoms of runnynose, coughing, andsneezing and coldsymptoms.
Allergysymptoms, however,may last longer thancold symptoms.from NIAID HealthInfo(information alsoincluded inMEDLINEplus)1.
Allergies have symptoms.2.
Colds have symptoms.3.
A runny nose is a symptomof an allergy.4.
Coughing is a symptom ofan allergy.5.
Sneezing is a symptom ofan allergy.6.
Cold symptoms are similarto allergy symptoms.7.
A cold is not an allergy.8.
Allergy symptoms maylast longer than coldsymptoms.What is hay fever?
Hayfever, otherwise knownas seasonal allergicrhinitis, is an allergicreaction to airbornesubstances such aspollen that get into theupper respiratorypassages ?
the nose,sinus, throat ?
and alsothe eyes.from NetDoctor (UK)1.
Hay fever is an allergy.2.
Hay fever is an allergicreaction.3.
Hay fever is a type ofallergy.4.
Hay fever is a type ofallergic reaction.5.
Hay fever is a reaction topollen.6.
Hay favor is a reaction toairborne substances.7.
In hay fever airbornesubstances get into the nose.8.
In hay fever airbornesubstances get into the throat.9.
In hay fever airbornesubstances get into the eyes.Table 3: Sample sentences derived from onlinemedical information sourcesThe initial documents were divided intoparagraph-length sections, and raters wereinstructed to associate with each section completeself-contained sentences expressing the genericmedical knowledge it contains.
Sentences were tobe formed using simple syntax and as far aspossible drawing on terms used in the originalsources.
Processors were instructed to eliminatesentences containing anaphora, indexical expres-sions, formulations of instructions, warnings andthe like, and to replace them where possible bycomplete statements constructed via simplesyntactic modifications.
Subjects were instructedto include only such terms and information whichthey themselves judged would be intelligible tonon-experts.1644 sentences were produced, representingsome 20 person hours of effort; examples arepresented in Table 3.
500 of these sentences weresubjected to a preliminary evaluation, eachsentence being presented to pairs of beginningmedical students for independent evaluation.
58%of the sentences were rated by both members ofeach pair with a score of 5.
However, a closeranalysis of the results revealed that the weightedkappa measure for inter-rater agreement was toolow for these results to be statistically significant.Further testing of this methodology will thus callfor larger sample sizes and for the use of raterswith specific expertise in relation to thephenomena described.12 Sources and SelectionThe primary sources for terms in MWN and forsentences in our test corpus are the relevantgeneral lexical information contained in WordNet,supplemented by medical dictionaries and largemedical terminology and ontology systems suchas MeSH and LinKBase, and by internet resourcessuch as MEDLINEPlus and NetDoctor focusingespecially on coverage of common diseases.
Weshall maintain an internet portal through whichlinks to sources used and the results of our term-and sentence-extraction will be made availableonline as raw data for use by other researchers.In this initial phase of our project we areinterested primarily in self-contained generic(case- and context-independent) statements with arelatively simple syntax.
To derive such sentenceswe use two methods:Method 1 derives sentences from a lexicaldatabase such as WordNet.
We treat the databaseas a set of links between terms of the form tLu(where L ranges over ?is-a?, ?part-of?, and otherrelations) and t, u range over terms which occur inthe medical sublexicon.
Some members of theresulting class of tLu formulas can be transformedautomatically into English sentences with aminimal amount of post-processing.
For exampleeach ?t is-a u?
formula can be transformed intosentences of the forms ?a t is a u?
and ?a t is a typeof u?
(with corrections for articles and plurals, asin: A cut is a type of wound; An abrasion is awound; Patients are people).
Others must besubject to manual extraction, which can be carriedout by native English-speakers (linguists or otherstrained in manipulation of lexical databases) withno special medical expertise.
Each extractedsentence is given a precise identifying number andassociated with metadata identifying its source.Method 2 derives single sentences from on-lineconsumer health information sources along thelines described in section 11 above.
Here eachsentence in the source documentation is given aprecise identifying number, indicating sourcedocument, position in this document, and sectionfrom which sentences have been inferred.Extracted sentences, too, are given preciseidentifying numbers and are associated withmetadata documenting section and document oforigin, date of processing, and also individualresponsible for extraction.13 Human Subject ValidationsThe output sentences from the above will serve,together with a random infusion of non-medical,folk-medical-but-false and medical-but-technicalsentences, as inputs to validations carried out byhuman subjects.
These will be of three primarytypes, referred to in what follows as U, B and C,for understanding, belief, and correctness,respectively.
All sentences will pass through theU filter, in which laypersons will be recruited torate sentences for understandability.
Thosesentences which survive will pass on to B and C.In B laypersons will rate sentences for degree ofbelief, in C medically trained participants(?experts?)
will rate sentences for correctness.Statements receiving a rating of 4 or higher (outof a range from 1 to 5) from each of two raters inB will be stored as components of MedicalBeliefNet; statements receiving a similarly highrating from each of two raters in C will be storedas components of Medical FactNet.
The ratingsfor all sentences, both those which do and thosewhich do not pass through the MBN/MFN filters,will be stored for further analysis.14 Future WorkWe envisage the MBN/MFN methodologybeing used in the fields of medical education andmedical literacy to evaluate the reliability of themedical knowledge of different non-expertcommunities.
On the basis of metadata pertainingto the sources of entries in MBN it will bepossible to keep track of specific kinds of falsebeliefs as originating in specific populations ofinformants.
This may prove a valuable source ofinformation in targeting particular groups forspecific types of remedial medical education.Furthermore, the extended MBN will provideopportunities for a new type of research in thefield of consumer health.
Specifically, weenvisage experiments that investigate how thedomain of medical phenomena is conceptualizedby non-expert human subjects.
Cognitivepsychologists and anthropologists such as Roschand others (Rosch, 1975), (Rosch, 1973), (Rosch,1978) have postulated a level of lexicalspecification that they call ?basic level.?
Basiclevel words correspond to basic kinds in theontology of language-using subjects.
Such wordsexist in all semantic domains, but they have beenstudied predominantly among words denotingnatural kinds, such as animals, vegetables, fruit,and colors.
(Medin and Atran, 1999), (Berlin andKay, 1969) For example, tomato is often cited asan example of a basic level word, whereasvegetable is a superordinate, and cherry tomato isa subordinate.
Basic level words have manystriking properties: they are universallylexicalized, characterized by high frequency ofoccurrence, and they are learned first by children.The concepts they denote have properties thatdiffer maximally from each other (e.g., a tomato isvery different from a cabbage or a bean), but thedifference between a basic level word and asubordinate (such as between a tomato and acherry tomato) is less pronounced.
The basic levellexicon in the medical domain has thus far notbeen explored, but such research promisesimportant theoretical benefits.
MBN might beused to determine the basic level in the domainunder investigation by examining the difference inthe frequency of occurrence of synonyms: highlyfrequent terms are good candidates for basic levelwords.
We can then use the results of this work toprovide a specification of the non-expert ontologyof the medical domain and begin to exploredifferences between it and the ontologiesunderlying expert medical terminologies.Note that, in all of the above, MFN and MBNhave characteristically played different roles.Thus where MFN has been associated withconstructing practical tools designed to assistusers in coming to believe what is true, MBN hasbeen associated with research, for exampleregarding what people believe about medicalphenomena.15 Towards a Comprehensive Documentationof Consumer Health KnowledgeWe estimate that the two documents referred toin Table 3 above represent together some 0.5 % ofthe information available on these two sites that isrelevant to the purposes of constructing a com-prehensive survey of consumer health knowledge.This suggests that a future comprehensive versionof MFN might contain some 320,000 sentences.The prospect of constructing a sentence-basedinformation resource of this size would until veryrecently have rightly been consideredoverwhelming.
The success of WordNet gives usconfidence that this problem, too, can be solved.16 AcknowledgementsWork on this paper was supported by theWolfgang Paul Program of the Alexander vonHumboldt Foundation.
Smith?s work was furthersupported by the European Union Network ofExcellence on Semantic Datamining, and by theproject ?Forms of Life?, sponsored by theVolkswagen Foundation.
Our thanks go inaddition to Werner Ceusters, Christopher Chute,James Cimino, Jean-Pierre Koenig, David Mark,Daniel Osherson, and Martin Trautwein.ReferencesAgirre, E., Martinez, D. Exploring automaticword sense disambiguation with decision listsand the Web.
Proceedings of the SemanticAnnotation and Intelligent AnnotationWorkshop, organized by COLING, Luxem-bourg, 2000.Al-Halimi, R., Kazman, R. Temporal indexingthrough lexical chaining.
Fellbaum C.
(ed.
),WordNet: An Electronic Lexical Database, MITPress, Cambridge, Maryland, May 1998.Artale, A., Magnini, B., Strapparava C. WordNetfor Italian and its use for lexical discrimination.Proceedings of the 5th Congresso dell?Associazione Italiana per l?Intelligenza Artifi-ciale, Rome, September 1997; 16-19.Baker, C. F., Fillmore, C. J., Cronin, B. Thestructure of the framenet database.
InternationalJournal of Lexicography, 2003; 16.3: 281-296.Baker, C. F., Fillmore, C. J., Lowe, J.
B. TheBerkeley FrameNet project.
Proceedings of theCOLING-ACL, Montreal, Canada, 1998.Basili, R., DellaRocca, M., Pazienza, M. T.Contextual word sense tuning anddisambiguation.
Applied Artificial Intelligence1997; 11 (3): 235-262.Berlin, B., Kay, P. Basic color terms.Berkeley/Los Angeles: University of CaliforniaPress, 1969.Berwick, R., Fellbaum, C., Gross, D., Miller, G.WordNet: A lexical database organized onpsycholinguistic principles.
In Zernik U.
(ed.
),Using On-line Resources to Build a Lexicon.Erlbaum, Hillsdale, NJ, Erlbaum, 1990; Chapter9: 211-231.Bodenreider, O., Burgun, A., Mitchell, J. A.Evaluation of WordNet as a source of layknowledge for molecular biology and geneticdiseases: a feasibility study.
Studies in HealthTechnology and Informatics 2003; 95: 379-384.Bodenreider, O., Burgun, A. Characterizing thedefinitions of anatomical concepts in WordNetand specialized sources.
Proceedings of theFirst Global WordNet Conference, January2002; 223-230.Bodenreider, O., Burgun, A. Ontologies in thebiomedical domain.
Part II: examples.
Journalof the American Medical InformaticsAssociation (in press).Bodenreider, O., Smith B., Kumar A., Burgun A.Investigating Subsumption in DL-basedterminologies: A case study in Snomed-CT.
In:R. Cornet and S. Schulz (eds.
), Proceedings ofKR-MED 2004: Knowledge Representation inMedicine.
(Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics2994), Springer, Berlin: 2004.Buitelaar, P., Sacaleanu, B.
Ranking and selectingsynsets by domain relevance.
In: Proceedings ofWordNet and Other Lexical Resources:Applications, Extensions and Customizations,NAACL 2001 Workshop, Carnegie MellonUniversity, Pittsburgh, 3-4 June 2001.Buitelaar, P., Sacaleanu, B.
Extending synsetswith medical terms.
In: Proceedings of the FirstInternational WordNet Conference, Mysore,India, January 21-25, 2002.Burg, J. F. M., van de Riet, R. P. COLOR-X:Using knowledge from WordNet for conceptualmodeling.
Fellbaum, C.
(ed.
), WordNet: AnElectronic Lexical Database, MIT Press,Cambridge, Maryland, May 1998.Burgun, A., Bodenreider, O.
Comparing terms,concepts and semantic classes in WordNet andthe Unified Medical Language System.
Pro-ceedings of the NAACL Workshop on WordNetand Other Lexical Resources, Pittsburgh, 2001;77-82.Collins, A. M., Quillian, M. R. Retrieval timefrom semantic memory, Journal of VerbalLearning and Verbal Behavior 1969; 8: 240-248.Cruse, D. A. Lexical semantics.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge, UK, 1986.Cucchiarelli, A., Velardi, P. Automatic selectionof class labels from a thesaurus for an effectivesemantic tagging of corpora.
Proceedings of the5th Conference on Applied Natural LanguageProcessing, Washington, 1997; 380-387.Ely, J. W., Osheroff, J.
A., Gorman, PN., Ebell,M.
H., Chambliss, M. L., Pifer, E. A., Stavri, P.Z.
A taxonomy of generic clinical questions:classification study.
British Medical Journal,2000; 321: 429-432.Fellbaum, C.
(ed.).
WordNet: an electronic lexicaldatabase.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, 1998.Fellbaum, C. Distinguishing verb types in a lexi-cal ontology.
Proceedings of the Second Inter-national Workshop on Generative Approachesto the Lexicon.
ISSCO, Geneva, 2003.Fellbaum, C. English verbs as a semantic net.International Journal of Lexicography 1990; 3(4): 278-301.Fellbaum, C. On the semantics of troponymy.
In:The Semantics of Relationships: An Inter-disciplinary Perspective.
R. Green, C. A. Bean,S.
H. Myaeng (eds.
), Dordrecht, Kluwer, 2002;23-34.Gonzalo, J., Verdejo, F., Chugur, I., Cigarran, J.Indexing with WordNet synsets can improvetext retrieval.
Proceedings of the COLING/ACLWorkshop on Usage of WordNet in NaturalLanguage Processing Systems, Montreal, 1998.Guha, R., Lenat, D., Pittman, K., Pratt, D.,Shepherd, M. Cyc: A midterm report.Communications of the ACP 1990; 33 (8).Harabagiu, S. M., Moldovan, DI.
A markerpropagation text understanding and inferencesystem.
J. H. Stewman (ed.
), Proceedings of the9th Florida Artificial Intelligence ResearchSymposium, Key West, 1996; 55-59.Jacquemart, P., Zweigenbaum, P. Towards amedical question-answering system: afeasibility study.
In: P. Le Beux and R.
Baud(eds.
), Proceedings of Medical InformaticsEurope, IOS Press, Amsterdam, 2003; 463-468.Kingsbury, P., Palmer, M. From TreeBank toPropBank.
Proceedings of 3rd InternationalConference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC-2002), Las Palmas, Spain,2002.Lenat, D. Cyc: a large-scale investment inknowledge infrastructure.
Communications ofthe ACM 1995; 38 (11).Magnini, B., Strapparava, C. Using WordNet toimprove user modelling in a web documentrecommender system.
Proceedings of theNAACL 2001 Workshop on WordNet and OtherLexical Resources, Pittsburgh, June 2001.McCray, A. T., Tse, T. Understanding searchfailures in consumer health information sys-tems.
Proceedings of the American MedicalInformatics Symposium 2003: 430-4.Medin, D. L., Atran, S.
(eds.)
Folkbiology.Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999.Miller, G. A. WordNet: a lexical database forEnglish.
Comm ACM 38, 11, November 1995;39-41.Patel, V. L., Arocha, J. F., Kushniruk, A.
Patients?and physicians?
understanding of health andbiomedical concepts: relationship to the designof EMR systems.
Journal of BiomedicalInformatics, 2002; 35(1): 8-16.Pustejovsky, J.
The generative lexicon.
MITPress, Cambridge, 1995.Rosch, E. Cognitive representations of semanticcategories.
Journal of Experimental Psychology,General 1975; 104: 192-253.Rosch, E. On the internal structure of perceptualand semantic categories.
Cognitive Develop-ment and the Acquisition of Language, T. E.Moore (ed.
), Academic Press, New York, 1973.Rosch, E. Principles of categorization.
In:Cognition and Categorization.
E. Rosch and B.B.
Lloyd (eds.
), Erlbaum, Hillsdale, NJ, 1978.Slaughter, L. Semantic relationships in healthconsumer questions and physicians?
answers: abasis for representing medical knowledge andfor concept exploration interfaces.
Doctoraldissertation, University of Maryland at CollegePark, 2002.Smith, B., K?hler, J., Kumar, A.
On theapplication of formal principles to life sciencedata: a case study in the Gene Ontology.Proceedings of DILS 2004 (Data Integration inthe Life Sciences), (Lecture Notes in ComputerScience), Berlin, Springer, 2004, in press.Smith B., Rosse C. The role of foundationalrelations in the alignment of biomedicalontologies.
Proceedings of Medinfo, SanFrancisco, 7-11 September, 2004.Smith, C. A., Stavri, P. Z., Chapman, W. W. Intheir own words?
A terminological analysis ofe-mail to a cancer information service.Proceedings of AMIA Symp.
2002;: 697-701.Tse, A., Soergel, D. Procedures for mappingvocabularies from non-professional discourse: acase study: in ?consumer medical vocabulary?.Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of theAmerican Society for Information, 2003.Tse, A. Y. Identifying and characterizing aconsumer medical vocabulary.
Doctoraldissertation, College of Information Studies,University of Maryland, College Park,Maryland, March 2003.Turcato, D., Fass, D., Tisher, G., Popowich, F.Fully automatic bilingual lexical acquisitionfrom EuroWordNet.
Proceedings of NAACL2001 Workshop on WordNet and Other LexicalResources, Pittsburgh, June 2001.Xiao, C., R?sner, D. Finding high-frequentsynonyms of domain-specific verbs in theEnglish sub-language of MEDLINE abstractsusing WordNet.
Proc 2nd Global WordNet Conf(GWC 2004), Brno, Czech Republic, December2003; 242-247.Zeng, Q., Kogan, S., Ash, N., Greenes, R. A.,Boxwala, A.
A. Characteristics of consumerterminology for health information retrieval: Aformal study of use of a health informationservice.
Methods of Information in Medicine, inpress.
