Contextual processing of locative prepositional phrasesNicolas DENAND & Monique ROLBERTLaboratoire d?Informatique Fondamentale de Marseille163, avenue de Luminy - Case 901F-13288 Marseille Cedex 9France{Nicolas.Denand,Monique.Rolbert}@lif.univ-mrs.frAbstractThis paper deals with contextual aspects of loca-tive preposition processing.
Firstly, accordingly to astudy on the referential behavior of the pronominaladverb ?y?
in its locative uses, we show that staticlocative prepositions are functions, not only at theconceptual level (as shown in previous studies), butalso from a contextual point of view.
Such functionsintroduce new objects in the discourse context, thathave to be taken into account in classical contex-tual processing tasks, such as reference resolution orquestion answering.
Then, we show how these phe-nomena can fit into contextual formalisms like DRTand DPL.1 IntroductionMost often, in a nominal anaphoric relation, apersonal pronoun (like ?le?(clitic)/?him?)
is in-volved in an anaphoric relationship with a nom-inal phrase (NP), located in the same sentenceas the pronoun or a previous one.
The pronounis therefore related to the discourse individualreferred to by the NP:(1)Un homme est venu ce matin.
Paul leconnaissait.
(A man came this morning.Paul knew him.
)In this example, the pronoun ?le?/?him?
isanaphorically linked to the NP ?un homme?/?aman?.
The pronoun refers to the discourse en-tity introduced by the NP.The antecedent NP can be found in differentsyntactical configurations, without being neces-sarily related to the case of the pronoun itself.For instance, the personal pronoun ?elle?/?it?
(subject) can be in anaphoric relation to a NP,itself embedded in a complement (here, loca-tive):(2)J?ai pose?
mon portable sur la table parcequ?elle e?tait propre.
(I put my laptop onthe table because it was clean.
)Similarly, the clitic pronoun ?y?
in its non-locative uses is anaphorically linked to a NP.These uses were already studied (see, for exam-ple, (Ruwet, 1990)).What about locative uses of the pronominaladverb ?y?1?
That is, when it is used to replacethe locative prepositional complement of a verb(Locative Prepositional Phrase, or LPP), likein:(3)Cette ville est belle.
J?y ai ve?cu autre-fois.
(This town is beautiful.
I lived thereformerly.
)Here again, in a classical way, one can say that?y?/?there?
refers to a ?place?
introduced bya NP preceding the pronoun.
We have a prob-lem though, to rebuild the exact locative seman-tics of the pronominal sentence (here, somethinglike ?in this town?).
The situation gets evenmore complicated when the antecedent of thepronoun lies itself in a LPP, like in the follow-ing:(4)J?ai passe?
mes vacances dans le Gard.
J?yai ve?cu autrefois.
(I spent my holydays inthe Gard.
I lived there formerly.
)In this paper, we show that the pronominaladverb ?y?
can be anaphorically linked to aLPP, locative preposition included.
This leadsus to the fact that some LPPs introduce indi-viduals in the discourse context.
We discussthe functional role played by locative preposi-tions in this process.
Finally, we explain howto account for these contextual functions withina discourse representation system such as DRTand DPL and its integration into processing asubset of French.1?y?
is usually considered a pronoun for its non loca-tive uses (Ce vase est casse?.
N?y touche pas.
(This vaseis broken.
Don?t touch it.))
and an adverb elsewhere(Paul y va.(Paul goes there.)).
(Grevisse, 1975) notescertain uses in which the status of ?y?
is unclear.
It isthen called ?pronominal adverb?.2 Locative prepositions arecontextual functionsA lot of examples show that ?y?, as a pronom-inal adverb, may have a NP as syntactical an-tecedent:(5)Je vois la table.
Tu y as pose?
tes clefs.
(Isee the table.
You put your keys there.
)If we replace the pronoun with its referent, wehave:(6)Je vois la table.
Tu as pose?
tes clefs surla table.
(I see the table.
You put your keyson the table.
)But, differences appear between this last ex-ample and a classical anaphoric relationship:first of all, the preposition ?sur?/?on?, appear-ing in the rebuilt LPP in (6) does not come fromeither the antecedent (since this one is a NP),or the verb (?sur?/?on?
is not a mandatorypreposition for the verb ?poser?/?put?, sincethis one accepts other prepositions like in ?poserdans?/?put in?
or ?poser sous?/?put under?
).Moreover, the coreference link between the pro-noun and its antecedent (usually generated bythe anaphoric relation) is unclear: can we re-ally assume that ?y?/?there?
refers to the ob-ject designated by the NP ?the table??
A firstanswer to these problems could be that thereis a kind of metaphoric interpretation of theobject designated by the antecedent NP, whichwould allow it to designate also a place, for in-stance the location where it stands, or its inte-rior when the name of the object clearly sug-gests an interiority feature.
This approach wasstudied and approved by (Mackenzie, 2004) andsimilar ideas (though in the conceptual domain)can be found in (Flageul, 1997).
Nevertheless,we can notice that it is rare for the pronoun ?y?to designate the place defined this way.
In ex-ample (5), one cannot say that ?y?
refers to theplace occupied by the table.
Moreover, such aninterpretation of the involved phenomenon doesnot allow to account for the following examples:(7)Va chercher pre`s de la table, je croisque ton ballon s?y trouve.
(Go looknear the table, I think your ball is there.
)(8)Je suis alle?
derrie`re la maison.
Un ve?lo s?ytrouvait.
(I went behind the house.
A bicy-cle was there.
)(9)Quand j?ai pose?
mon saca` co?te?
de la tasse, ton portable s?y trou-vait.
(When I put my bag next to the cup,your laptop was there.
)If we replace the pronoun with its antecendent,we have:(10)Va chercher pre`s de la table, je crois queton ballon se trouve pre`s de la table.
(Golook near the table, I think your ball is nearthe table.
)(11)Je suis alle?
derrie`re la maison.
Un ve?lo setrouvait derrie`re la maison.
(I went behindthe house.
A bicycle was behind the house.
)(12)Quand j?ai pose?
mon sac a` co?te?
de latasse, ton portable se trouvait a` co?te?
de latasse.
(When I put my bag next to the cup,your laptop was next to the cup.
)The difference between these examples and(5) resides in the fact that, here, the prepo-sition employed in rebuilt examples (10), (11)and (12) is necessarily the same as the prepo-sition involved in the LPP of the previous sen-tence.
We notice that the syntactical similar-ity between the antecedent LPP and the rebuiltone does not come from a pure syntactic rela-tionship between the pronominal adverb and itsantecedent.
In addition, there really is a coref-erence relationship since, in example (10) for in-stance, both LPPs mention the same table and,in fact, the same ?place?.
Therefore, we haveto account for the coreference link between pro-noun ?y?
and a ?place?, described by the an-tecedent LPP.
We must then consider that ?y?is anaphorically related to the LPP and, hence,refers to an ?object?
introduced by this LPP anddifferent from that designated by the NP.Studying where-questions raises a valuableanalogy.
For instance, let us consider a staticlocative question like:(13)Ou` se trouve mon portable ?
(Where is mylaptop?
)One possible answer to this question, within auniverse described by example (9) above, is:(14)A` co?te?
de la tasse.
(Next to the cup.
)If we classically consider that the semantics ofsuch questions (wh-questions) is the maximalset of individuals satisfying the property corre-sponding to the question (on this subject, see(Van Rooy, 1999), (Groenendijk and Stokhof,1984)), then we must admit that ?a` co?te?
de latasse?/?next to the cup?
is an individual.
Asa matter of fact, the semantics of question (13)is:{x/se trouve(mon portable, x)}2and one element of this set is therefore an objectthat can be designated by the LPP ?a` co?te?
dela tasse?/?next to the cup?
(which is clearly adifferent object from the one designated by theNP ?la tasse?/?the cup?
).Thus, we conclude that LPPs introduce indi-viduals that can be viewed as answers to loca-tive questions.
Then it appears that these in-dividuals are precisely those that can be des-ignated by adverb ?y?
in situations similar tothe examples given above.
Other examples givesupport to this point of view.
The anaphoricuse of locative adverb ?la`?/?there?3 or repeti-tions by definite description show us other casesthat require to assume the existence of LPPs-generated individuals:(15)Je suis en face du cine?ma.
On se retrouvela`.
(I am in front of the cinema.
Let?s meetthere.
)(16)Je suis a` droite de l?arbre.
L?endroit estmagnifique.
(I am to the right of the tree.The place is beautiful.
)Therefore, we give the following rule:Some4 LPPs introduce/designate twoindividuals: one classical, given by thecontextual interpretation of the embed-ded NP, the other given by the in-terpretation of the LPP itself (thatis, by the compound [prep + NP]).The pronominal adverb ?y?
may beanaphorically linked to a LPP (thatis, precisely, to the phrase made of[prep+NP]), thus referring to the indi-vidual introduced by the complete LPP.Then, what happens when ?y?
has a NP foran antecedent?
The NP is its antecedent butit has no coreference relationship with it.
Oncan think here that we are facing a relationshipclose to bridging anaphora (like ?la porte?/?thedoor?...
?la poigne?e?/?the handle?).
But in-stead of having a classical part/whole relation-ship between the two members of the anaphora,we have an underspecified (the preposition ismissing) relationship of type object/place.
?y?2There is no way to introduce the preposition ?nextto?
in this semantic formula from the surface form of thequestion.3See the work of (Lorentzen, 1998) on the distinctbehaviors of ?ici?/?here?
and ?la`?/?there?.4We will see later that determining what LPPs areinvolved in this rule is a difficult question, unansweredin this paper.is therefore involved in a coreference relation-ship with another object than the one desig-nated by its antecedent.
The semantics of thisobject depends on the antecedent NP and a (yetundetermined) preposition.
We notice that evenif the antecedent NP is embedded in a LPP, thepreposition of the latter is not always referredto by the pronoun.
The following example:(17)Max habite loin du parking mais j?y ai(quand me?me) gare?
ma voiture.
(Max livesfar from the carpark, but I (nevertheless)left my car there.
)can be paraphrased by:(18)Max habite loin du parking mais j?ai quandme?me laisse?
ma voiture dans le park-ing.
(Max lives far from the carpark, but I(nevertheless) left my car in the carpark.
)In these situations, the preposition ?far from?is not part of the anaphoric relation.
We willsay that the syntactic antecedent of the pronounis the embedded NP (and not the LPP) andwe will introduce a new locative preposition tocalculate the referent of ?y?/?there?.We notice that this process makes the inter-pretation of pronoun ?y?
potentially ambiguouswhen this one refers to a LPP: the pronoun canindeed refer to the LPP or have the NP (embed-ded in the LPP) as an antecedent.
The followingexample shows such an ambiguity:(19)J?habite a` co?te?
de Paris et j?y travaille.
(Ilive near Paris and I work there.
)There are two possible interpretations for thissentence:(20)J?habite a` co?te?
de Paris et je travaille a`co?te?
de Paris.
(I live near Paris and I worknear Paris.
)(21)J?habite a` co?te?
de Paris et je travaillea` Paris.
(I live near Paris and I work inParis.
)Finally, we notice that the behavior of relativesentences introduced by ?ou`?/?where?
is similarto the examples above, except the fact that theantecedent is always a NP:(22)Je vois la table ou` tu as pose?
ton portable.
(Isee the table where you put your laptop.
)(23)Max habite loin du parking ou` j?ai laisse?ma voiture.
(Max lives far from the carparkwhere I left my car.
)The antecedent of the relative pronoun?ou`?/?where?
is the NP which is embedded inthe locative complement and its semantics mustbe completed by a (implicit) locative preposi-tion (it could be replaced in surface forms by?on which?/?in which?
).Now that we showed that some LPPs in-troduce/designate one discourse individual, wemust have a closer look at the underly-ing phenomenon.
Many studies dealt withcontextual effects of NPs (definite/indefinite,generic/specific, etc.
see, for instance, (Cor-blin, 1987)).
A summary of these can be foundin (Salmon-Alt, 2001).
Where do LPPs fit inthere?
First of all, we notice that the situationis complicated since it depends obviously on thenature of the NP which is embedded in the LPPand, for example, some cases of ?generic LPPs?can be encountered, like in:(24)Habiter pre`s d?un cre?matorium comportee?galement des risques : la mortalite?
nataley est plus e?leve?e de 4%.
(It is also risky tolive near a crematorium: birth mortality ishigher by 4% there.
)We will firstly focus on LPPs containing twotypes of NPs: indefinite with specific interpre-tation and definite descriptions (or any refer-ential expression, for instance pronominal).
Inboth cases we get, after the interpretation of theembedded NP, an entity, either pre-existing theinterpretation of the NP or newly created.
Thisentity serves as a basis to determine the new en-tity generated by the interpretation of the LPP.Clearly, the other tool allowing to determinethis new entity is the locative preposition in-volved in the LPP: what is its status?
Severalstudies on space representation give definitions(either qualitative or quantitative) of the part ofspace designated by a spatial function appliedto an object or a place.
These works usuallyfocus on explaining the conditions under whichone can say that a point of space (or an object)is or not within such a part of space (see, forexample (Vieu, 1991), (Schang, 1997)).
Thisbelonging is then most often represented by aspatial relation (like to be on the right of) be-tween objects, which will be either true or false.These processes do not highlight this part ofspace that we aim to raise as a discourse object,but they show the matching between some loca-tive prepositions and spatial functions5.
Other5Here, again, it seems difficult to state that everylocative preposition matches a spatial function.
Thisquestion will not be discussed in this paper.
But, sucha study could probably rely on the classification of loca-tive prepositions proposed in (Borillo, 1993) and (Borillo,studies also highlight this role of locative prepo-sitions.
V. Flageul (Flageul, 1997) considerslocative prepositions as conceptual-level opera-tors, which turn a type object into a type place.A.
Peyraube (Peyraube, 2003) describes the his-torical evolution of Chinese localizers and notesthat ?their main function in pre-medieval Chi-nese is to follow nouns and transform them intoplace words, tending to behave like functionalwords?.
We take one step further and state thatlocative prepositions are contextual-level oper-ators (or ?functions?, from a logical point ofview) which produce an object from another,the former being the part of space cited before.The work of V. Flageul allows us to specify theconceptual type of this object according to theinvolved preposition.Concerning LPPs that contain NPs quanti-fied by ?every?, the situation slightly differs:typically, such NPs imply universally quantifiedvariables.
We will get back on this point whenexamining examples in the next paragraph.As a conclusion for the current section, westate that in the situations described above: -Some locative prepositions denote contextualfunctions: they associate to one individual Xfrom the context another one, noted f(X).
-Some LPPs produce an object f(X) where f isthe function associated to the locative preposi-tion and X, the object designated or producedby the embedded NP.3 Processing preposition functionswith DRT and DPLWe are now going to show how to integrate thesefunctions when representing discourse and ref-erential links.
First of all, we show on exam-ples6 how this works within DRT-like formal-ism.
Then we show results obtained in a DPLapproach.2000).6The examples we use here are simple on purpose andmay therefore seem odd or ill-formed.
Nevertheless, wecan give many others where ?y?
refers to a LPP.
A briefsearch on the Internet alowed us to reveal examples ofvarious types:(25)Nous nous sommes promene?s pre`s d?un volcan etnous y avons trouve?
des roches inte?ressantes.
(Wehad a walk near a volcano and we found interestingrocks there.
)(26)Les terrains primitifs, en faisant irruption dans lesterrains primordiaux, y ont amene?
un certain nom-bre de mine?raux inte?ressants.
(Primitive terrains,when rushing into primordial terrains, brought acertain number of interesting minerals there.
)DRT ((Kamp, 1981)) is a theory proposing adiscourse representation formalism, essentiallyoriented towards (pronominal and others) ref-erence problems.
We show here with the casesstudied in the previous section how a LPP anda referent to a LPP can be accounted for withinthis formalism.
(30)Un arbre se trouve derrie`re une maison.Il y fait de l?ombre7.
(There is a treebehind a house.
It casts shadow there.
)tree xx y zhouse yz = behind(y)is_located(x,z)Figure 1: DRS of example (30) (step 1)Comments: indefinite NPs ?un arbre?/?atree?
and ?une maison?/?a house?
classicallyintroduce two new individuals in the DiscourseRepresentation Structure (DRS).
The LPP in-troduces a new individual z, being the result ofthe application of function behind on referencemarker y.Example continuation:(27)Au moment du projet, la densite?
des moulesze?bre?es,.
.
.
, e?tait de faible a` mode?re?e pre`s deBurritts Rapids, mais elle y augmentait rapide-ment.
(At the time of the project, the density of ze-bra mussels,.
.
.
, was low to moderate near BurrittsRapids, but it was quickly increasing there.
)(28)Durant le projet, c?est pre`s de chaque section qu?ona observe?
les plus bas niveaux de bacte?ries E. Colide toute la rivie`re.
Le niveau d?E.
Coli y e?tait assezfaible pour que la baignade y soit permise presquetous les jours.
(During the project, the lowest levelsof E. Coli bacteria in all the river were observednear every section.
The level of E. Coli was lowenough there to permit swimming on most days.
)(29)Les gens pre?fe`rent acheter loin du centre ville carils y trouvent des logements peu chers.
(People pre-fer buying far from downtown because they findcheap residences there.
)casts_shadow(v,w)x y z v wtree xhouse yz = behind(y)is_located(x,z)v = xw = zFigure 2: DRS of example (30) (step 2)Comments: classically, pronoun ?il?/?it?
in-troduces a new reference marker v linked to itsantecedent by the equality v = x.
?y?/?there?also introduces a new reference marker w linkedto its antecedent by equality w = z.
The factthat the antecedent z is itself linked to a func-tional term is without consequence.
(31)Si un arbre se trouve derrie`re une maison,il y fait de l?ombre.
(If a tree isbehind a house, it casts shadow there.
)is_located(x,z)casts_shadow(x,v)v = zvx y ztree xhouse yz = behind(y)Figure 3: DRS of example (31)Comments: this example is equivalent to a don-key sentence.
Thanks to its location inside theDRS, reference marker z is accessible from vari-able v.(32)Un arbre se trouve derrie`re chaque maisonet y fait de l?ombre.
(A tree isbehind every house and casts shadowthere.
)casts_shadow(z,y)xhouse xy zy = behind(x)tree zis_located(z,y)Figure 4: DRS of example (32)Comments: we chose here the interpretationin which the quantifier ?chaque?/?every?
hasa scope beyond the indefinite subject.
We no-tice that the quantification associated to vari-able y is existential (from its presence in theright box of the implication) and not universal,like it would have been the case if variable y waspresent in the left box.
This choice is not reallyimportant since the result of a function is, bydefinition, unique.Through these examples, we can see that rep-etitions of functional terms are always donewithin the scope of the argument quantification:indeed, either both terms are introduced in thesame box - at the same level - or the functionalterm is introduced in the right box of an impli-cation (it is therefore in the scope of the variableintroduced in the left box).
To remain correct,every reference to this functional term will oc-cur in the same context.These processes are thus classical.
Functionalterms just have to be introduced in DRT no-tation.
In the ?classical?
DRT definition (likeit is presented, for instance, in (van Eijck andKamp, 1997), p. 191), terms are either con-stants or variables used as reference markers ordiscourse referents.
We added functions in thelanguage.
We assume that a set of function let-ters with their arities is given.
Then the set ofterms is augmented by functional terms.
Prac-tically, these functional terms are obtained byapplying functions on variables.Thus, a locative preposition corresponds toa function from this language.
One can see towhich typed lambda-expressions lexical items orphrases must be associated to obtain the resultsgiven above.
According to notations from (vanEijck and Kamp, 1997) p. 217, we can statethat a locative preposition is of type < e, e >and has as lambda-expression ?v (behind v) ifbehind is the function associated to the prepo-sition.
The LPP causes the new individual toappear in the DRS.
It is of type << e, T >, T > (like a NP) and its lambda expression is?P (ui; (NP ?v(ui = (Loc Prep v) .
P (ui))))where NP denotes the lambda-expression givenfrom the LPP-embedded NP, Loc Prep is thelambda-expression of locative preposition givenabove and ui the reference marker introducedby the LPP.
Finally, pronoun ?y?
will be asso-ciated to lambda-expression ?P (P ui) where uiis its antecedent reference marker8.8We can not detail here the lambda-expressions as-sociated to other phrases or items required for completeDPL (Groenendijk and Stokhof, 1984) is an-other discourse representation system allowingeasy expression of referential links.
To accountfor our LPP processing, the language must beaugmented with functions and functional terms(which raises a priori no problem).
Here aresome DPL formulas corresponding to the fol-lowing examples:(33)Un arbre se trouve derrie`re une maison.
(Atree is behind a house.
)?x ?y [tree(x) ?
house(y) ?
is(x, behind(y))](34)Il y fait de l?ombre.
(It casts shadow there.
)?x ?y [tree(x) ?
house(y) ?
is(x, behind(y))] ?casts shadow(x, behind(y))The occurrence of the variable in the functionalterm is linked by its quantifier, like in case ofpronominal repetition without function.
Thewell-formedness of formulas is therefore guar-anteed.
(35)Si un arbre se trouve derrie`re une maison,il y fait de l?ombre.
(If a tree is behind ahouse, it casts shadow there.
)[?x tree(x)?
?y [house(y)?is(x, behind(y))]] ?casts shadow(x, behind(y))In order to build these DPL formulas,we associate to locative prepositions thelambda-expression ?v(behind v) of type <e, e >, and to LPPs the lambda-expression?P [NP ?y[P [Prep Loc y]]] of type << e, T >, T > ([ ] are used as application operator).These expressions are very close to those usedin DRT, apart from the fact that they do notintroduce reference markers.
In the absence ofthese markers, the link between pronoun ?y?and its functional antecedent is established byusing the same variable appearing in the an-tecedent functional term and building a newfunctional term from the same function.
Thelambda-expression associated to ?y?
then be-comes ?P [P [Prep Loc x]] where [Prep loc x]is the antecedent of ?y?.4 ConclusionIn this paper, we studied the contextual conse-quences of the referential interpretation of loca-tive prepositional phrases through references bypronominal adverb ?y?.
We stated that locativeprepositions are functions at a contextual leveland that LPPs introduce new individuals intothe discourse context.processing of our examples.
The approach is classicaland the reader can refer, for instance, to (van Eijck andKamp, 1997)The results described here are used withina platform (made by our team) allowing todevelop natural language understanding appli-cations featuring a syntactical analysis phase,a lambda-calculus-based representation of sen-tences and a contextual processing of discourse(proforms and definite descriptions resolution).We use DRT to resolve references, then DPL fora final discourse representation.Many difficult questions remain unanswered.First of all, it seems that only some LPPs pro-vide such a productive ability at a contextuallevel and that it depends on both the locativepreposition and the type of the embedded NP.Classifying and characterizing these types ofNPs remain to be done.
Dynamic LPPs shouldalso be studied.
Besides we could study the be-havior of other prepositional syntagms (tempo-ral prepositions, for instance).ReferencesA.
Borillo.
1993.
Pre?positions de lieu etanaphores.
Langages, pages 27?46.A.
Borillo.
2000.
Formes et sens despre?positions.
In PREP-AN 2000.
Universityof Tel-Aviv.D.
Corblin.
1987.
Inde?fini, de?fini etde?monstratif.
Droz, Gene`ve-Paris.V.
Flageul.
1997.
Description se?mantico-cognitive des pre?positions spatiales dufranc?ais.
Ph.D. thesis, Universite?
Paris IV ?Sorbonne.M.
Grevisse.
1975.
Le bon usage.
Duculot.J.
Groenendijk and M. Stokhof.
1984.
Studiesin the semantics of questions and the prag-matics of answers.
Ph.D. thesis, Universityof Amsterdam.H.
Kamp.
1981.
A theory of truth and semanticrepresentation.
In J. Groenendijk, T. Jansen,and M. Stokhof, editors, Formal methods inthe study of language, Mathematisch Cen-trum, Amsterdam.L.
R. Lorentzen.
1998.
Je serai la` ou J?yserai ?
?
voila` la question.
In A. Englebert,M.
Pierrard, L. Rosier, and D. van Raem-donck, editors, Actes du XXIIe Congre`s In-ternational de Linguistique et de PhilologieRomanes, Bruxelles.L.
Mackenzie.
2004.
Anaphoric reference to en-tities and places in literal and metaphoricalcontexts.
In J. Andor and P. Pelyva?s, edi-tors, Empirical, cognitive-based studies in thesemantics-pragmatics interface, Amsterdam.Elsevier.
to be published.A.
Peyraube.
2003.
On the history of placewords and localizers in chinese: a cognitiveapproach.
Space in languages: linguistic sys-tems and cognitive categories, february.N.
Ruwet.
1990.
En et y : deux clitiquespronominaux antilogophoriques.
Langages,97.
Larousse.S.
Salmon-Alt.
2001.
Re?fe?rence et dialoguefinalise?
: de la linguistique a` un mode`leope?rationnel.
Ph.D. thesis, LORIA, Univer-site?
Henri Poincare?, Nancy I.D.
Schang.
1997.
Repre?sentation et in-terpre?tation de connaissances spatiales dansun syste`me de dialogue homme-machine.Ph.D.
thesis, Universite?
Henri Poincare?,Nancy I.J.
van Eijck and H. Kamp.
1997.
Representingdiscourse in context.
In J. van Benthem andA.
ter Meulen, editors, Handbook of Logic andLanguage.
Elsevier.R.
Van Rooy.
1999.
Questioning to resolve de-cision problems.
In P. Dekker, editor, Pro-ceedings of the 12th Amsterdam Colloquium,Amsterdam.L.
Vieu.
1991.
Se?mantique des relations spa-tiales et infe?rences spatio-temporelles : unecontribution a` l?e?tude des structures formellesde l?espace en Langage Naturel.
Ph.D. thesis,IRIT, Universite?
Paul Sabatier.
