A Flexible Example Annotation Schema: Translation CorrespondingTree RepresentationFai WONG, Dong Cheng HU, Yu Hang MAOSpeech and Language Processing Research Center,Tsinghua University, 100084 Beijinghuangh01@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn{hudc, myh-dau}@mail.tsinghua.edu.cnMing Chui DONGFaculty of Science and Technologyof University of Macao,PO Box 3001, Macao SARdmc@inesc-macau.org.moAbstractThis paper presents work on the task of con-structing an example base1 from a given bi-lingual corpus based on the annotationschema of Translation Corresponding Tree(TCT).
Each TCT describes a translation ex-ample (a pair of bilingual sentences).
It repre-sents the syntactic structure of sourcelanguage sentence, and more importantly isthe facility to specify the correspondences be-tween string (both the source and target sen-tences) and the representation tree.Furthermore, syntax transformation clues arealso encapsulated at each node in the TCTrepresentation to capture the differentiation ofgrammatical structure between the source andtarget languages.
With this annotationschema, translation examples are effectivelyrepresented and organized in the bilingualknowledge database that we need for the Por-tuguese to Chinese machine translation sys-tem.1 IntroductionThe construction of bilingual knowledge base, inthe development of example-based machinetranslation systems (Sato and Nagao, 1990), isvitally critical.
In the translation process, the ap-plication of bilingual examples concerns withhow examples are used to facilitate translation,which involves the factorization of an input sen-tence into the format of stored examples and theconversion of source texts into target texts interms of the existing translations by referencingto the bilingual knowledge base.
Theoreticallyspeaking, examples can be achieved from bilin-1 Or bilingual knowledge base, we use the two terms inter-changeably.gual corpus where the texts are aligned in senten-tial level, and technically, we need an examplebase for convenient storage and retrieval of ex-amples.
The way of how the translation examplesthemselves are actually stored is closely relatedto the problem of searching for matches.
In struc-tural example-based machine translation systems(Grishman, 1994; Meyers et al, 1998; Watanabeet al, 2000), examples in the knowledge base arenormally annotated with their constituency (Kajiet al, 1992) or dependency structures (Matsu-moto et al, 1993; Aramaki et al, 2001; Al-Adhaileh et al, 2002), which allows the corre-sponding relations between source and target sen-tences to be established at the structural level.
Allof these approaches annotate examples by meanof a pair of analyzed structures, one for each lan-guage sentence, where the correspondences be-tween inter levels of source and target structuresare explicitly linked.
However, we found thatthese approaches require the bilingual examplesthat have ?parallel?
translations or ?close?
syntac-tic structures (Grishman, 1994), where the sourcesentence and target sentences have explicit corre-spondences in the sentences-pair.
For example, in(Wu, 1995), the translation examples used forbuilding the translation alignments are selectedbased on strict constraints.
As a result, these ap-proaches indirectly limit their application in us-ing the translation examples that are ?freetranslation?
to the development of example-based machine translation system.
In practice,most of the existing bilingual corpus, the mean-ings of the source sentences are interpreted intarget language in the nature of ?freer?, other thanliterally translated in a projective manner andstayed as close to the source text as possible, inparticular for the languages-pair that are struc-tural divergences, such as Portuguese and Chi-nese.As illustrated in Figure 1, the translation of thePortuguese sentence ?Onde ficam as barracas depraia??
is interpreted into ????????
(Where are the bathhouses?)?
other thanstraightly translated to ????????
?
(Where are the tents of beach?)?.
The translationsof the words, i.e.
?barracas?
and ?praia?, of thesource sentence do not explicitly appear in targetsentence.
As a result, in the conventional align-ment process, to achieve a fully aligned structuralrepresentation for such sentences-pair may beproblematic.
However, we found that such typeof examples is very common.
We have investi-gated around 2100 bilingual examples that areextracted from a grammar book ?Gram?tica daL?ngua Portuguesa?
(Wang and Lu, 1999), andfound that 63.4% of examples belong to the dis-cussed case, where the number of unmatchedwords is more than half the number of words insource sentence.
In this paper, we overcome theproblem by designing a flexible representationschema, called Translation Corresponding Tree(TCT).
We use the TCT as the basic structure toannotate the examples in our example bilingualknowledge base for the Portuguese to Chineseexample-based machine translation system.?
?Onde ficam as barracas de praia ??????
?Figure 1.
An example of ?free translation?, wherethe translations of some words in Portuguese sen-tence do not appear in target Chinese sentence.2 Translation Corresponding Tree(TCT) RepresentationTCT structure, as an extension of structure string-tree correspondence representation (Boitet andZaharin, 1988), is a general structure that canflexibly associate not only the string of a sen-tence to its syntactic structure in source language,but also allow the language annotator to explic-itly associate the string from its translation intarget language for the purpose to describe thecorrespondences between different languages.2.1 The TCT StructureThe TCT representation uses a triple sequenceintervals [SNODE(n)/STREE(n)/STC(n)] en-coded for each node in the tree to represent thecorresponding relations between the structure ofsource sentence and the substrings from both thesource and target sentences.
In TCT structure, thecorrespondence is made up of three interrelatedcorrespondences: 1) one between the node andthe substring of source sentence encoded by theinterval SNODE(n), which denotes the intervalcontaining the substring corresponding to thenode; 2) one between the subtree and the sub-string of source sentence represented by the in-terval STREE(n), which indicates the interval ofsubstring that is dominated by the subtree withthe node as root; and 3) the other between thesubtree of source sentence and the substring oftarget sentence expressed by the interval STC(n),which indicates the interval containing the sub-string in target sentence corresponding to thesubtree of source sentence.
The associated sub-strings may be discontinuous in all cases.
Thisannotation schema is quite suitable for represent-ing translation example, where it preserves thestrength in describing non-standard and non-projective linguistic phenomena for a language(Boitet and Zaharin, 1988; Al-Adhaileh et al,2002), on the other hand, it allows the annotatorto flexibly define the corresponding translationsubstring from the target sentence to the repre-sentation tree of source sentence when it is nec-essary.
This is actually the central idea behind theformalism of TCT.NP(4/3-6/1-3)Onde1 ficam2 as3 de5 praia6PP(5/5-6/?
)Adv(1/1/5-6) V(2/2/4)S(2/1-6/1-6)VP(2/2-6/1-4)NP(4/3-4/?
)Syntactic TreeSourceString{ Det(3/3/?)
Prep(5/5/?)
N(6/6/?)barracas4N(4/4/?
)?4?1?2?3?5?6Target String{Figure 2.
An TCT representation for annotatingthe translation example "Onde ficam as barracasde praia?
(Where are the bathhouses?)
/???????"
and its phrase structure togetherwith the correspondences between the substrings(of both the source and target sentences) and thesubtrees of sentence in source language.As illustrated in Figure 2, the translation ex-ample ?Onde ficam as barracas de praia?/????????
is annotated  in a TCT struc-ture.
Based on the interpretation structure of thesource sentence ?Onde ficam as barracas depraia?
?, the correspondences between the sub-strings (of source and target sentences) and thegrammatical units at different inter levels of thesyntactic tree of the source sentence are ex-pressed in terms of sequence intervals.
The wordsof the sentences pair are assigned with their posi-tions respectively, i.e.
?Onde (1)?, ?ficam (2)?,?as (3)?, ?barracas (4)?, ?de (5)?
and ?praia (6)?for the source sentence, as well as for the targetsentence.
But considering that Chinese usesideograms in writing without any explicit worddelimiters, the process to identify the boundariesof words is considered to be the task of wordsegmentation (Teahan et al, 2000), instead ofassigning indices in word level with the help ofword segmentation utility, a position interval isassigned to each character for the target (Chi-nese) sentence, i.e.
??
(1)?, ??
(2)?, ??
(3)?,??
(4)?, ??
(5)?
and ??
(6)?.
Hence, a sub-string in source sentence that corresponds to thenode of its representation is denoted by the inter-vals encoded in SNODE(n) for the node, e.g.
theshaded node, NP, with interval, SNODE(NP)=4,corresponds to the substring ?barracas?
in sourcesentence that has the same interval.
A substringof source sentence that corresponds to a subtreeof its syntactic tree is denoted by the interval re-corded in STREE(n) attached to the root of thesubtree, e.g.
the subtree of the shaded node, NP,encoded with the interval, STREE(NP)=3-6, cor-responds to the substring ?as barracas de praia?in source sentence.
While the translation corre-spondence between the subtree of source sen-tence and substring in the target sentence isdenoted by the interval assigned to the STC(n) ofeach node, e.g.
the subtree rooted at shaded node,NP, with interval, STC(NP)=1-3, corresponds tothe translation fragment (substring) ?????
intarget sentence.2.2 Expressiveness of Linguistic Infor-mationAnother inherited characteristic of TCT structureis that it can be flexibly extended to keep variouskinds of linguistic information, if they are con-sidered useful for specific purpose, in particularlythe linguistic information that differentiating thecharacteristics of two languages which are struc-tural divergences (Wong et al, 2001).
Basically,each node representing a grammatical constituentin the TCT annotation is tagged with grammati-cal category (part of speech).
Such feature isquite suitable for the describing specific linguis-tic phenomena due to the characteristic of a lan-guage.
For instance, in our case, the crossingdependencies (syntax transformation rules) forthe sentence constituents between Portuguese andChinese are captured and attached to each nodein the TCT structure for a constituent that indi-cates the order in forming the correspondingtranslation for the node from the subtrees itdominated.
In many phrasal matching ap-proaches, such as constituency-oriented (Kaji etal., 1992; Grishman, 1994) and dependency-oriented (Matsumoto et al, 1993; Watanabe etal., 2000; Aramaki et al, 2001), crossing con-straints are deployed implicitly in finding thestructural correspondences between pair of repre-sentation trees of a source sentence and its trans-lation in target.
Here, in our TCT representation,we adopted the use of constraint (Wu, 1995) for aconstituent unit, where the immediate subtreesare only allowed to cross in the inverted order.Such constraints, during the phase of target lan-guage generation, can help in determining theorder in producing the translation for an interme-diate constituent unit from its subtrees when thecorresponding translation of the unit is not asso-ciated in the TCT representation.TreeSourceString { Onde1 ficam2Adv(1/1/5-6) V(2/2/4)NP(4/3-6/1-3)S(2/1-6/1-6)VP(2/2-6/1-4)?4 ?5?6?1?2?3TargetString {as3 barracas4 de5 praia6Figure 3.
The transfer relationships between thesentence-constituents of source language and itstranslation in target language are recorded inTCT structure.Figure 3 demonstrates the crossing relationsbetween the source and target constituents in anTCT representation structure.
In graphical struc-ture annotation, a horizontal line is used to repre-sent the inversion of translation fragments of itsimmediate subtrees.
For example, the translationsubstring ??????
of the shaded node, VP,can be obtained by inverting the order of the cor-responding target translations ???
and ????
?from the dominated nodes V and NP.
Therefore,such schema can serve as a mean to representtranslation examples, and find structural corre-spondences for the purpose of transfer grammarlearning (Watanabe et al, 2000; Matsumoto etal., 1993; Meyers et al, 1998).3 Construction of Example BaseIn the construction of bilingual knowledge base(example base) in example-based machine trans-lation system (Sato and Nagao, 1990; Watanabeet al, 2000), translation examples are usuallyannotated by mean of a pair analyzed structures,where the corresponding relations between thesource and target sentences are established at thestructural level through the explicit links.
Here,to facilitate such examples representation, we usethe Translation Corresponding Tree as the basicannotation structure.
The main different and ad-vantage of our approach is that it uses a singlelanguage parser to process other than two differ-ent parsers, one for each language (Tang and Al-Adhaileh, 2001).In our example base, each translation pairs isstored in terms of an TCT structure.
The con-struction starts by analyzing the grammaticalstructure of Portuguese sentence with the aid of aPortuguese parser, and a shallow analysis to theChinese sentence is carried out by using the Chi-nese Lexical Analysis System (ICTCLAS)(Zhang, 2002) to segment and tag the words witha part of speech.
The grammatical structure pro-duced by the parser for Portuguese sentence isthen used for establishing the correspondencesbetween the surface substrings and the inter lev-els of its structure, which includes the correspon-dences between nodes and its substrings, as wellas the correspondences between subtrees andsubstrings in the sentence.
Next, in order to iden-tify and establish the translation correspondencesfor structural constituents of Portuguese sentence,it relies on the grammatical information of theanalyzed structure of Portuguese and a given bi-lingual dictionary to search the correspondingtranslation substrings from the Chinese sentence.Finally, the consequent TCT structure will beverified and edited manually to obtain the finalrepresentation, which is the basic element of theknowledge base.3.1 The TCT Generation AlgorithmIn the overall construction processes, the task tocompile the syntactic structure of source sentenceinto the TCT representation by linking the trans-lation fragments from the target sentence is thevital part.
The following steps present the com-plete process to generate an TCT structure for atranslation example ?Actos anteriores ?
publici-dade da ac?
?o (Publicity of action prior to acts) /???????????
?.Parsing Portuguese SentenceThe process begins by parsing the Portuguesesentences with a Portuguese parser.
The parsingresult is a phrase structure in terms of bracketedannotation.
Each bracketed constituent of thestructure tree is attached with a grammaticalcategory.
Figure 4 shows the resultant parsedstructure of the Portuguese sentence.
(S (N Actos) (AdjP (Adj anteriores) (PP (Prep ?
)(NP (N publicidade) (PP (Prep da) (N ac?
?o))))))ParserActos anteriores ?
publicidade da ac?
?oFigure 4.
Portuguese sentence is analyzed by alinguistic parser, and its output is the phrasestructure expressed in bracket notation.???????????
?/p ?
?/v ?
?/v ?/f ?/u ?/v ?/u ?
?/nLexicalAnalyserFigure 5.
The analyzed lexical items for Chinesesentence.Analyzing Chinese SentenceThe construction of TCT structure is fundamen-tally based on the syntactic structure of Portu-guese sentence.
The finding of translation unitsbetween the sentences pair is relying on structuretree of Portuguese sentence and the sequences oflexical words from Chinese sentence.
Thus, in-stead of analyzing the Chinese sentence in deep,we analyze the Chinese sentence in the lexicallevel by using the Chinese Lexical Analysis Sys-tem (ICTCLAS) (Zhang, 2002).
Each Chineseword is delimited with spaces and assigned witha part of speech as illustrated in Figure 5.Constructing Correspondence Structurefor Portuguese SentenceAfter parsing and obtaining the syntactic struc-ture of Portuguese sentence, next step is to com-pute the correspondences for the structure againstthe surface strings of the source sentence, whichincludes the corresponding phrase for a constitu-ent unit in the tree and the corresponding contentword that headed the constituent unit, both ofthese correspondences are denoted by the se-quence intervals of the substrings spanningacross the sentence fragments.
In finding the cor-responding phrasal substrings for subtrees, westart associating the lexical words to the corre-sponding terminal nodes of the structure tree byassigning the related offsets to SNODE(n) andSTREE(n) of the nodes.
Then we proceed to nextupper level constituent units in the tree where thecorresponding substrings are derived by connect-ing the lexical words from the nodes in the lowerlevel it dominated.
Theoretically, if node, N, hasm daughters, N1?Nm, then the sequence intervalfor N will be STREE(N) = STREE(N1) ?STREE(N2) ???
STREE(Nm), the interval isbounded by spanning nodes of its immediate sub-trees.
To identify the lexical head for a constitu-ent unit, we use simple rule to determine it byconsidering the grammatical category of thephrasal unit, and choose the word that owns thesame category from the daughter nodes, then as-sign the interval of chosen to SNODE(N).
Figure6 shows the structure produced in this stage.Actos1N(1/1)anteriores2 ?3 publicidade4 da5 ac?
?o6S(1/1-6)AdjP(2/2-6)PP(3/3-6)NP(4/4-6)PP(5/5-6)Adj(2/2) Prep(3/3) N(4/4) Prep(5/5) N(6/6)Figure 6.
The Portuguese correspondence struc-ture.Associating Translation CorrespondencesIn this process, we adopt a search for alignmentsbetween constituent units of Portuguese sentenceand the corresponding translation fragments fromChinese sentence, proceeding bottom-up throughthe tree.
It makes use of the information aboutpossible lexical correspondences from a bilingualdictionary and the grammatical categories of thelexical words, tagged in previous stage, to gener-ate initial candidate alignments.
Figure 7 presentsthe initial lexical alignments.ActosN  anterioresAdj  ?Prep  publicidadeN  daPrep  ac?
U  ?
V  ?
U??oN?
P  ??
V  ??
V  ?
F  ??
NFigure 7.
Initial candidate alignments of corre-sponding words.Based on the possible word correspondences,the associated structure of the Portuguese sen-tence, together with the grammatical categoriesinformation, the search proceeds to align phrasesby gradually increasing length (phrasal corre-spondences in different levels of constituent tree)based on the following criterions.First, for any un-aligned words sequence ?wua?being bounded by aligned words of daughternodes ?wa-left?
and ?wa-right?, we take the wholefragment ?wa-leftwuawa-right?
(including the bound-ing words or phrases) as the corresponding sub-string for the parent node that immediatelydominates the daughter nodes, such that STC(N)= STC(Nleft) ?
STC(Nright).Second, for the case that the un-aligned frag-ment is not bounded by any aligned units, ourapproach relies on the assumption that if two setof sentence constituents (source and target sen-tences) are corresponding, their grammaticalcategories as well as the number of constituentsshould be consistent.
The essential idea of thesearch is to look for inter levels where the con-stituent units of the structure of Portuguese sen-tence and the lexical words in Chinese sentencecan be projected in one-to-one manner.
We usethe previous example ?Onde ficam as barracasde praia?
(Where are the bathhouses?)/????????
to illustrate the searching strat-egy.
Beside the corresponding lexical items, e.g.
?Onde / ???
and ?Ficam / ?
?, that can be de-termined with the aid of a given dictionary, theprocess proceeds bottom-up and searches throughthe tree by considering only the unmatched itemsthat if the assumption hold or not.
For example,at the leaf level, the different numbers of thelexical items (?asDet, barracasN, dePrep, praiaN?and ????N?)
violates the assumption.
Theprocess repeats the investigation in next upperlevel in the representation structure of Portuguesesentence.
As illustrated in Figure 8, the alignmentcan be identified only at the level where thenumber and the part of speech of constituent unitof Portuguese (?
[as barracas de praia]NP?)
areconsistent to that of the lexical item in Chinesesentence (?[???]N?).
Consequently, the corre-spondences between the associated structure ofPortuguese sentence and the translation frag-ments of Chinese sentence can be determined andestablished.
For any node in the structure whichhas no translation equivalent is assigned with?empty (?)?
interval to STC(N).PP(5/5-6/?
)Adv(1/1/5-6) V(2/2/4)NP(4/3-6/1-3)S(2/1-6/1-6)VP(2/2-6/1-4)NP(4/3-4/?)Det(3/3/?)
N(4/4/?)
Prep(5/5/?)
N(6/6/?
)Onde1 ficam2 as3 barracas4 de5 praia6?1?2?3[N] ?4[V] ?5?6[Adv]Figure 8.
Finding the alignment for unboundedwords.Third, for acquiring the crossing constraint fora constituent node in the representation tree,which is determined by examining the order ofthe translation correspondences of the spanningnodes against the sequence of those appeared inChinese sentence.
For any node that representingPortuguese phrase whose corresponding transla-tion is derived from its daughters by inverting thecorresponding translations is denoted by assign-ing a Boolean value to INVERT(N) attached tothe node.
In graphical annotation, a horizontalline is used as a sign for indicating the inversion.As demonstrated in Figure 9, the correspondingtranslations of the daughters of node S arecrossed between the sentences of Portuguese andits translation in Chinese.
The correspondingtranslation ????????
of its second daugh-ter appears prior to that ????
of the first daugh-ter node in the target translation of Portuguesesentence.
Hence the inversion property for theconstituent node in the syntactic structure ofsource sentence is consequently determined.S(1/1-6/1-11)?1?2?3?4?5?6             ?7?8?9             ?10?11anteriores2 ?3 publicidade4 da5 ac?
?o6AdjP(2/2-6/1-6)N(1/1/10-11)Actos1Figure 9.
Determination of crossing dependencybetween the translation correspondencesFinally, in case the representation of TCT gen-erated in previous process needs further editing,an TCT editor can be used to perform the neces-sary amendment.
Figure 10 presents the finalTCT structure describing a translation example.S(1/1-6/1-11)AdjP(2/2-6/1-6)PP(3/3-6/1-5)NP(4/4-6/2-5)PP(5/5-6/2-3)N(1/1/10-11) Adj(2/2/6) Prep(3/3/1) N(4/4/4-5) Prep(5/5/?)
N(6/6/2-3)Actos1 anteriores2 ?3 publicidade4 da5 ac??o6?
1   ?
2?
3   ?
4?
5   ?
6   ?
7   ?
8   ?
9   ?
10?
11Figure 10.
An TCT structure constructed for thetranslation example ?Actos anteriores ?
publici-dade da ac?
?o (Publicity of action prior to acts) /???????????
?.3.2 Translation EquivalentsThrough the notation of translation correspond-ing structure for representing translation exam-ples in the bilingual knowledge base, thetranslation units between the Portuguese sentenceand its target translation in Chinese are explicitlyexpressed by the sequence intervals STREE(n)and STC(n) encoded in the intermediate nodes ofan TCT structure, that may represent the phrasaland lexical correspondences.
For instance, fromthe translation example being annotated under theTCT representation schema as shown in Figure10, the Chinese translation ???
?
of Portugueseword ?ac??o?
is denoted by [STREE(n)=6/STC(n)=2-3] in the terminal node.
For phrasaltranslation, we may visit the higher level con-stituents in the representing structure of TCT andapply the similar coding information to retrievethe corresponding translation for the unit thatrepresenting a phrasal constituent in a sentence.Each TCT structure is being indexed by its nodesin the bilingual knowledge base, in order that therepresentation examples can be effectively con-sulted.4 ConclusionIn this paper, a novel annotation schema fortranslation examples, called Translation Corre-sponding Tree (TCT) structure, is proposed andhas been applied to the construction of bilingualknowledge base (example base) to be used for thePortuguese to Chinese machine translation sys-tem.
The TCT representation provides a flexiblenature to describe the corresponding relationsbetween the inter levels of the structure againstits substrings in a sentence, in particular the cor-responding translation fragments (substrings)from the target translation sentence are explicitlyexpressed in the structure.
We have proposed astrategy to semi-automate the example base con-struction process.
A preliminary TCT structurefor a translation example is first produced by thesystem, then the representation structure can befurther modified manually through an TCT editorto get the final structure.AcknowledgementThe research work reported in this paper wassupported by the Research Committee of Univer-sity of Macao under grant CATIVO:3678.ReferencesMosleh Hmoud Al-Adhaileh, Enya Kong Tang, andYusoff Zaharin.
2002.
A Synchronization Structureof SSTC and Its Applications in Machine Transla-tion.
The COLING 2002 Post-Conference Work-shop on Machine Translation in Asia, Taipei,Taiwan.Eiji Aramaki, Sadao Kurohashi, Satoshi Sato, andHideo Watanabe.
2001.
Finding Translation Corre-spondences from Parallel Parsed Corpus for Ex-ample-based Translation.
In Proceedings of MTSummit VIII, pp.27-32.Christian Boitet, and Yusoff Zaharin.
1988.
Represen-tation trees and string-tree correspondences.
InProceeding of COLING-88, Budapest, pp.59-64.Ralph Grishman.
1994.
Iterative Alignment of Syntac-tic Structures for a Bilingual Corpus.
In Proceed-ings of Second Annual Workshop on Very LargeCorpora (WVLC2), Kyoto, Japan, pp.57-68.Hiroyuki Kaji, Yuuko Kida, and Yasutsugu Mori-moto.
1992.
Learning Translation Templates fromBilingual Text.
In Proceeding of COLING-92,Nantes, pp.672-678.Yuji Matsumoto, Hiroyuki Isimoto, and TakehitoUtsuro.
1993.
Structural Matching of ParallelTexts.
31st Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, Columbus, Ohio,pp.23-30.Adam Meyers, Roman Yangarber, and Brown Ralf.1998.
Deriving Transfer Rules from Dominance-Preserving Alignments.
In Proceedings of Coling-ACL (1998), pp.843-847.Satoshi Sato, and Magnus Nagao.
1990.
TowardMemory-Based Translation.
In Proceeding of Col-ing (1990): pp.247-252.Enya Kong Tang, and Mosleh Hmoud Al-Adhaileh.2001.
Converting a Bilingual Dictionary into a Bi-lingual Knowledge Bank based on the SynchronousSSTC.
In Proceedings of Machine TranslationSummit VIII, Spain, pp.351-356.Suo Ying Wang, and Yan Bin Lu.
1999.
Gram?tica daL?ngua Portuguesa.
Shanghai Foreign LanguageEducation Press.Fai Wong, Yu Hang Mao, Qing Fu Dong, and YiHong Qi.
2001.
Automatic Translation: Overcomethe Barriers between European and Chinese Lan-guages.
In Proceedings (CD Version) of First In-ternational UNL Open Conference 2001, SuZhouChina.Dekai Wu.
1995.
Grammarless extraction of phrasaltranslation examples from parallel texts.
In Pro-ceedings of TMI-95, Sixth International Confer-ence on Theoretical and Methodological Issues inMachine Translation, v2, Leuven Belgium, pp.354-372.Hua Ping Zhang.
2002.
ICTCLAS.
Institute of Com-puting Technology,Chinese Academy of Sciences:http://www.ict.ac.cn/freeware/003_ictclas.asp.
