Cognate Mapping ?
A Heuristic Strategy for the Semi-SupervisedAcquisition of a Spanish Lexicon from a Portuguese Seed LexiconStefan Schulza,b Korne?l Marko?b,c Eduardo Sbrissiaa Percy Nohamaa Udo HahncaMaster Program in Health Technology, Parana?
Catholic University, Curitiba, BrazilbDepartment of Medical Informatics, Freiburg University Hospital, GermanycComputational Linguistics Research Group, Jena University, Germanyhttp://www.coling.uni-freiburg.de/AbstractWe deal with the automated acquisition of aSpanish medical subword lexicon from an al-ready existing Portuguese seed lexicon.
Usingtwo non-parallel monolingual corpora we de-termined Spanish lexeme candidates from Por-tuguese seed lexicon entries by heuristic cog-nate mapping.
We validated the emergent lex-ical translation hypotheses by determining thesimilarity of fixed-window context vectors onthe basis of Portuguese and Spanish text cor-pora.1 IntroductionMedical language presents a unique combinationof challenges for language engineering, with a fo-cus on applications such as information retrieval,text mining and information extraction.
Documentcollections ?
on the Web or in clinical databases?
are usually very large and dynamic.
In addi-tion, medical document collections are truly multi-lingual.
Furthermore, the user population which ac-cess medical documents are really diverse, rangingfrom physicians and nurses to laypersons, who usedifferent jargons and sublanguages.
Therefore, thesimplicity of the content representation of the docu-ments, as well as automatically performed intra- andinterlingual lexical mappings or transformations ofequivalent expressions, become crucial issues for anadequate machine support.We respond to these challenges in terms ofthe MORPHOSAURUS system (an acronym forMORPHeme TheSAURUS).
It is centered around anew type of lexicon, in which the entries are sub-words, i.e., semantically minimal, morpheme-styleunits (Schulz and Hahn, 2000).
Intralingual as wellas interlingual synonymy is then expressed by theassignment of subwords to concept-like equivalenceclasses.
As subword equivalence classes abstractaway from subtle particularities within and betweenlanguages, and reference to them is achieved viaa language-independent code system, they form aninterlingua characterized by semantic identifiers.Compared to relationally richer, e.g., WORDNETbased, interlinguas as applied for cross-language in-formation retrieval (CLIR) (Gonzalo et al, 1999;Ruiz et al, 1999), we use a rather limited set ofsemantic relations and pursue a more restrictive ap-proach to synonymy.
In particular, we restrict our-selves to the specific sublanguage used in the con-text of the medical domain.
Our claim that thisinterlingual approach is useful for the purpose ofcross-lingual text retrieval and categorization has al-ready been experimentally supported (Schulz et al,2002; Marko?
et al, 2003).The quality of cross-lingual indexing fundamen-tally depends on the underlying lexicon and the-saurus.
Its manual construction and maintenanceis costly and error-prone.
Therefore, machine-supported lexical acquisition techniques increas-ingly deserve attention.
Whereas in the medical do-main parallel corpora are only available for a lim-ited number of language pairs, unrelated (i.e., non-parallel, non-aligned) corpora might provide suffi-cient evidence for cognate identification, at least inlanguages which are closely related.In this paper, we present the results of such an ex-periment.
We have chosen Spanish and Portugueseas a pair of closely related languages.
Both lan-guages exhibit a high degree of similarity in theirlexical inventory, as well as in the rules govern-ing word formation.
Accordingly, a Portuguese na-tive speaker is able to understand technical texts inSpanish without much effort, and vice versa.
Inboth languages, there is also an increasing numberof electronic texts available, so that a cross-lingualsearch interface would significantly improve the ac-cessibility of domain relevant documents.2 Lexicographic Aspects ofMorpho-Semantic IndexingWe briefly outline the lexicographic and semanticaspects of our approach, called Morpho-SemanticIndexing (henceforth, MSI), which translates sourcedocuments (and queries) into an interlingual repre-sentation in which their content is represented bylanguage-independent semantic descriptors.2.1 Subwords as Lexicon UnitsOur work is based on the assumption that neitherfully inflected nor automatically stemmed wordsconstitute the appropriate granularity level for lex-icalized content description.
Especially in scien-tific and technical sublanguages, we observe a highfrequency of domain-specific and content-bearingsuffixes (e.g., ?-itis?, ?-ectomia?
in the medical do-main), as well as the tendency to construct ut-terly complex word forms such as ?pseudo?hypo?para?thyroid?ism?, ?gluco?corticoid?s?, or ?pan-creat?itis?.1 In order to properly account for theparticularities of ?medical?
morphology, we in-troduced subwords (Schulz et al, 2002) as self-contained, semantically minimal units and moti-vated their existence by their usefulness for docu-ment retrieval rather than by linguistic arguments.The minimality criterion is quite difficult to de-fine in a general way, but its implications canbe illustrated by the following example.
Giventhe text token ?diaphysis?, a linguistically plausiblemorpheme decomposition would possibly lead to?dia?phys?is?.
From a medical perspective, a seg-mentation into ?diaphys?is?
seems much more rea-sonable, because the linguistically canonical mor-phological decomposition is far too fine-grainedand likely to create too many ambiguities.
For in-stance, comparable ?low-level?
segmentations of se-mantically unrelated tokens such as ?dia?lyt?ic?,?phys?io?logy?
lead to morpheme-style units ?dia?and ?phys?, which unwarrantedly match segmenta-tions such as ?dia?phys?is?, too.
The (semantic)self-containedness of the chosen subword is oftensupported by the existence of a synonym, e.g., for?diaphys?
we have ?shaft?.2.2 Subword Lexicon and ThesaurusSubwords are assembled in a multilingual lexiconand thesaurus, which contain subword entries, spe-cial subword attributes and semantic relations be-tween subwords.
Up until now, the lexicon andthe thesaurus have both been constructed manually,with the following considerations in mind:?
Subwords are entered, together with their at-tributes such as language (English, German,Portuguese) and subword type (stem, prefix,suffix, invariant).
Each lexicon entry is as-signed a unique identifier representing onesynonymy class, the MORPHOSAURUS iden-tifier (MID), which contains this entry as itsunique member.1???
denotes the concatenation operator.?
Synonymy classes which contain intralingualsynonyms and interlingual translations of sub-words are fused.
We restrict intra- and inter-lingual semantic equivalence to the context ofmedicine.?
Semantic links between synonymy classes areadded.
We subscribe to a shallow approachin which semantic relations are restricted to aparadigmatic relation has-meaning, which re-lates one ambiguous class to its specific read-ings,2 and a syntagmatic relation expands-to,which consists of predefined segmentations incase of utterly short subwords.3We refrain from introducing hierarchical rela-tions between MIDs, because such links can be ac-quired from domain-specific vocabularies, e.g., theMedical Subject Headings (MESH, 2001).Table 1 depicts how source documents (cf.
thefirst column with an English and Portuguese frag-ment) are converted into an interlingual represen-tation by a three-step procedure.
First, each in-put word is orthographically normalized in termsof lower case characters and according to language-specific rules for the transcription of diacritics (sec-ond column).
Next, words are segmented into se-quences of semantically plausible sublexical itemsaccording to the subwords listed in the lexicon (thirdcolumn).
Finally, each meaning-bearing subwordis replaced by its language-independent semanticidentifier, the MID, which unifies intralingual andinterlingual (quasi-)synonyms.
Then, the systemyields the interlingual output representation of thesystem (fourth column).The manual construction of the trilingual sub-word lexicon and the subword thesaurus has con-sumed, up until now, three and a half personyears.
The project originally started from a bilin-gual German-English lexicon, while the Portuguesepart was added in a later project phase.
The com-bined subword lexicon contains 58,479 entries,4with 21,397 for English, 22,053 for German, and15,029 for Portuguese.Taking into account, on the one hand, the out-standing importance of Spanish as a major Western2For instance, {head} ?
{zephal,kopf,caput,cephal,cabec,cefal} OR {leader,boss,lider,chefe}3For instance, {myalg} ?
{muscle,muskel,muscul} ?
{schmerz, pain,dor}4Just for comparison, the size of WORDNET assem-bling the lexemes of general English in the 2.0 version ison the order of 152,000 entries (http://www.cogsci.princeton.edu/?wn/doc.shtml, last visited on Jan-uary 3, 2004).
Linguistically speaking, the entries are basicforms of verbs, nouns, adjectives and adverbs.Original Orthographic Morphological SemanticDocument Normalization Segmentation NormalizationHigh TSH values suggestthe diagnosis of primaryhypothyroidism whilea suppressed TSH levelsuggests hyperthyroidism.high tsh values suggest thediagnosis of primary hy-pothyroidism while a sup-pressed tsh level suggestshyperthyroidism.high tsh value s suggest thediagnos is of primar y hypothyroid ism while a sup-press ed tsh level suggest shyper thyroid ism.#up# tsh #value##suggest# #diagnost##primar# #small# #thyre##suppress# tsh #nivell##suggest# #up# #thyre# .A presenc?a de valoreselevados de TSH sug-ere o diagn o?stico dehipotireoidismo prim a?rio,enquanto n ?
?veis suprim-idos de TSH sugeremhipertireoidismo.a presenca de valores ele-vados de tsh sugere o diag-nostico de hipotireoidismoprimario, enquanto niveissuprimidos de tsh sugeremhipertireoidismo.a presenc a de valor es ele-vad os de tsh suger e o di-agnost ico de hipo tireoidismo primari o, enquantoniveis suprimid os de tshsuger em hiper tireoid ismo.#actual# #value# #up#tsh #suggest# #diagnost##small# #thyre# #primar#, #nivell# #suppress# tsh#suggest# #up# #thyre# .Table 1: Morpho-Semantic Indexing Example for English (row 1) and Portuguese (row 2): The original document(column 1) is orthographically transformed (column 2), segmented according to the subword lexicon (column 3), whilecontent-bearing subwords are mapped to MSI-specific equivalence classes whose identifiers (MIDs) are automaticallygenerated by the system (column 4).
(Bold MIDs co-occur in both documents.
)language and, on the other hand, the close lexicalties between Portuguese and Spanish as Romancelanguages, we intended to augment the existingMORPHOSAURUS system by Spanish as its fourthlanguage and at the same time reuse the knowledgeof Portuguese for the purpose of speeding up andfacilitating the Spanish lexicon acquisition.3 ExperimentsWe use the following resources for the experiments:?
A Portuguese subword lexicon, as described inthe previous section.?
A manually created list of 842 Spanish affixes.?
Medical corpora for Spanish and Portuguese.These corpora were compiled exploiting het-erogeneous WWW sources.
The size of theacquired corpora amounts to 2,267,841 tokenswith 118,021 types for Spanish and 3,406,589tokens with 133,146 types for Portuguese.?
Word frequency lists generated from these cor-pora, for Spanish and Portuguese.3.1 Spanish Subword GenerationIn order to acquire a first-shot Spanish subword lex-icon we designed the following lexeme generationstrategy: Using the Portuguese lexicon, identicaland similarly spelled Spanish subword candidates(cognates) are generated.
As an example, the Por-tuguese word stem ?estomag?
(?stomach?)
is identi-cal with its Spanish cognate.
An example for a pairof similar stems is ?mulher?
(?woman?)
(Portuguese)vs. ?mujer?
(Spanish).
Similar subword candidatesRule Portuguese Spanish(P ?
S) Example Examplequa ?
cua quadr cuadreia ?
ena veia venass ?
s fracass fracaslh ?
j mulher mujerlh ?
ll detalh detalll ?
ll lev llevi ?
y ensai ensayf ?
h formig hormig+ca ?
za cabeca cabeza+o+ ?
ue sort suert... ... ...Table 2: Sample of Portuguese-to-Spanish String Sub-stitution Ruleswere generated by applying a set of string substitu-tion rules some of which are listed in Table 2.
In to-tal, we formulated 45 rules as a result of identifyingcommon-language Portuguese-Spanish cognates ina commercial dictionary.
Some of these substitu-tion patterns cannot be applied to starting or end-ing sequences of characters in the Portuguese sourcesubword.
These regularities are captured by using awildcard (?+?
in Table 2) representing at least onearbitrary character.First, for each Portuguese lexicon entry (n =14,183 stems and invariants, excluding affixes),all possible Spanish variant strings were generatedbased upon the set of string substitution rules.
Thisled, on the average, to 9.53 Spanish variant hypothe-ses per Portuguese subword entry (ranging from 5.3variants for high-frequency four-character words to355.2 for low-frequency 17-character words).
Allthese candidates were subsequently compared tothe Spanish word frequency list, we had previouslycompiled from our Spanish text corpus.
Wherevera left-sided string match (in the case of stems) oran exact one (in the case of invariants) occurred,the matching string was listed as a potential Span-ish cognate of the Portuguese subword it originatedfrom.
Whenever several Spanish substitution alter-natives for a Portuguese subword had to be con-sidered (cognate ambiguity) that particular one waschosen which had the closest relative distributionin the corpus-derived Spanish word frequency list,when compared to its Portuguese equivalent in thePortuguese word list.
As a result, we obtained a listof tentative Spanish subwords each linked by the as-sociated MIDs to its corresponding cognate in thePortuguese lexicon.Quantitatively, starting from 14,183 Portuguesesubwords, a total of 132,576 Spanish subword can-didates were created using the string substitutionrules.
Matching these Spanish candidates againstthe Spanish corpus and allowing for a maximum ofone Spanish candidate per Portuguese subword, weidentified 11,206 tentative Spanish cognates (79%of the Portuguese seed lexicon) which are linked toa total of 8,992 MIDs from their Portuguese corre-lates (hence, 2214 synonym relationships have alsobeen hypothesized).
2,977 generated items couldnot be found in the Spanish corpus, at all.3.2 Manual Semantic ValidationOne of the authors evaluated manually a randomsample of 388 (3.5% of all generated) cognate pairsin order to identify false friends, i.e., similar wordsin different languages with different meanings.
Inour sample we found, e.g., the Spanish candidate*?crianz?
for the Portuguese ?crianc?
(the normal-ized stem of ?crianc?a?
; English: ?child?).
The cor-rect translation of Portuguese ?crianc?
to Spanish,however, would have been ?nin?
(the stem of ?nin?o?
),whilst the Spanish ?crianz?
refers to ?criac?
(stem of?criac?a?o?
in Portuguese; English: ?breed?).
Takingthese false friend errors into account, the automaticgeneration of Portuguese-Spanish cognate pairs stillyields 89,4% accuracy.Assuming then that approximately 1,188 falsefriends are among the list of 11,206 generatedSpanish subword translations (10.6%), the questionarises how to distinguish false friends from true pos-itives (cognates).
Because a manual examination ofthe entire candidate set is a tedious and still error-prone work, we shifted our attention to automaticsemantic validation techniques.3.3 Automatic Semantic ValidationIn order to automatically validate all the generatedcognate pairs, we examined the local context inwhich these cognates occur in non-parallel corporaof both languages involved.
The basic idea thatunderlies this approach is that a subword that ap-pears in a certain context should have a (true posi-tive) cognate that occurs in a similar context, at leastwhen (very) large corpora are taken into account.Cognate similarity can then be measured in termsof context vector comparison (cf.
also Rapp (1999)or Koehn and Knight (2002)).We therefore processed the Portuguese corpus us-ing the morpho-semantic normalization routines asdiscussed in Section 2.
In the next step, we cre-ated a context vector for each MID, the compo-nents of which contained the relative frequencies ofco-occurring MIDs in a local window of four sub-sequent, yet unordered MID units (a size also en-dorsed by Rapp (1999)).In order to compute the context vector for eachSpanish subword candidate, we then constructeda seed lexicon with all the automatically createdSpanish subword candidates, together with the listof Spanish affixes.
Based on this lexicon, the Span-ish corpus was morphologically normalized in thesame way, using the MIDs that were licensed by thePortuguese cognates.
For each of the candidate cog-nate MIDs, we built a corresponding context vector.We then measured the context similarity for eachMID considering its Portuguese source context andthe corresponding Spanish one.
We chose two sim-ilarity metrics, viz.
the well-known cosine metric(Salton and McGill, 1983) and an inverted, normal-ized (within the interval [0,1]) variant of the city-block metric (advocated by Rapp (1999) as an alter-native that outperformed cosine in his experiments).00.20.40.60.810  500  1000  1500  2000  2500  3000  3500VectorSimiliarityMID (n = 3809)CosineCity-BlockFigure 1: Context Similarity of MIDs Representing Por-tuguese and Spanish Sources1101001000100001000000  1000  2000  3000  4000  5000  6000  7000  8000  9000AbsoluteFrequencyinCorpus(log-scale)MID (n = 8992)Portuguese CorpusSpanish CorpusFigure 2: Distribution of MIDs in the Portuguese andSpanish CorporaFigure 1 depicts the resulting curves.
Both met-rics reveal almost the same characteristics.
Only forhigher similarities, city-block allows a more fine-grained distinction.For 5,183 (57.6%) from 8,992 pairs of MIDs (onefrom a ?Portuguese?
vector, the other from a ?Span-ish?
vector), no vector similarity at all could be mea-sured.
We distinguish between the following cases:?
There was no MID occurrence in the Spanishcorpus.?
There was a MID occurrence in the Spanishcorpus, but none in the Portuguese one.?
The vectors were orthogonal, i.e., the contextsdid not overlap at all, although the MID oc-curred in the Spanish corpus, as well as in thePortuguese one.
This can be interpreted in twoways: For reasonably frequent MIDs (cf.
Fig-ure 2 for the distribution in the corpora) this isthe strongest evidence for false friends (formalcognates which are not semantically related),whereas for sparsely distributed MIDs, it doeshardly permit any valid judgment concerningtheir status as false or true cognates.On the other hand, 1,540 MID pairs (in the sensefrom above) exceed similarity values of 0.2 (17.1%)and 2,065 pairs still share values greater than 0.15(23%).
The obvious question is: What is an ade-quate threshold?Figures 3 and 4 convey an answer to this ques-tion.
Both figures are meant to illustrate the trade-off when one increases the threshold for the similar-ity of both vectors, the Portuguese and the Span-ish one, for the MIDs under consideration.
Thecentral notion in these two figures is that of KeptHypotheses, i.e., the proportion of MIDs for which01020304050607080901000.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5%of All GeneratedMIDHypotheses(n= 8992)Cosine Value ThresholdKept HypothesesFalse NegativesFalse PositivesFigure 3: The Effects of Applying a Threshold Value tothe Cosine Metrics for the Validation of MID Hypotheses01020304050607080901000.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5%of All GeneratedMIDHypotheses(n= 8992)City Block Value ThresholdKept HypothesesFalse NegativesFalse PositivesFigure 4: The Effects of Applying a Threshold Valueto the City-Block Metrics for the Validation of MID Hy-pothesesthe assignment of the underlying cognate is judgedas being semantically valid.
When we consider all(100%) of the generated MIDs (n=8,992) as valid(hence, cosine and city-block are both zero), weget 953 false positives (given our empirically de-termined accuracy rate of 89.4%, and, hence, er-ror rate of 10.6%) and, obviously, no false negative.Alternatively, when we consider instead 50% of thegenerated MIDs (n=4,496) as valid (with thresholdsfor cosine set at 0.05 and for city-block at 0.035),we get 297 (3.3%) false positives, and the num-ber of false negatives increases at a level of 3,687(around 41%, for both metrics).
In order to reducethe set of false friends to zero using the cosine met-ric, 92.2% of all generated MID cognates will berejected by the automatic validation for manual re-vision (analogously, the number of false negativeswill increase).
Interestingly, the same procedure us-ing the city-block metric will lead to a rejection rateof 97%.At a first glance, this seems to contradict thestatement of Rapp (1999), who found in a num-ber of experiments that the city-block metric yieldsthe best results among others, viz.
cosine and Jac-card measure, Euclidean distance and scalar prod-uct.
However, his measures were taken to find themost similar vector for a given word in order to au-tomatically identify word translations.
On the otherhand, in our experiments, we intended to express thedegree of similarity given a pair of cognates.
We hy-pothesized that the city-block metric allows a morefine grained similarity judgment whilst others, e.g.,cosine, the Jaccard and Dice coefficient, etc., whichonly account for overlapping elements of a vector,have a stronger demarcation power.Summarizing, when we increase the similaritythresholds, the number of MID hypotheses de-creases as does the number of false positives (al-ready at a rather low level), while the number offalse negatives increases almost inversely related tothe number of MID hypotheses.
Therefore, it is upto the lexicon engineer to determine the level of pre-selection in these three dimensions.
We also con-clude from our experiments that a much larger cor-pus is needed in order to collect reasonable contextevidence for the infrequent MIDs, in particular.4 Related WorkThe rise of the empirical paradigm in the field ofmachine translation is, to a large degree, due to thewide-spread availability of parallel corpora (Brownet al, 1990).
They also constitute an important re-source for the automated acquisition of translationallexicons (Turcato, 1998).
Unfortunately, the limitedavailability of parallel corpora (e.g., the CanadianHansard corpus of English and French parliamentdebates) restricts this method to a few languagepairs, mostly focused on specific sublanguages (e.g.politics, legislation, economy).
Neither exist suchparallel corpora for the medical sublanguage, norfor the particular language pair, Spanish and Por-tuguese, we focus on in this work.The acquisition of unrelated, albeit comparablecorpora is much easier.
Rapp (1999) used unre-lated parallel corpora in order to learn English andGerman word-to-word translations.
His approachis based on similarity measures and context clues,using a seed lexicon of trusted translations.
Koehnand Knight (2002) derived such a seed lexicon fromGerman-English cognates which were selected byusing string similarity criteria.
An additional boostcan be achieved by retrieving content-related doc-ument pairs using CLIR techniques (Utsuro et al,2003).
An alternative generative approach is pro-posed by Barker and Sutcliffe (2000) who createdPolish cognate candidates out of an English wordlistusing a set of string mapping rules.Pirkola et al (2003) used aligned translation dic-tionaries as source data.
Based on that, they createdan algorithm to automatically generate transforma-tion rules from five different languages to English,including Spanish.
Applying a two-step technique(translation rules and fuzzy n-gram matching), theyachieved 81.1% of average precision in a Spanish-to-English context covering biomedical words only.However, their evaluation metrics considerably dif-fered from ours, since they considered multiple hy-potheses.Our work differs from these precursors in manyways.
First of all, due to domain and language re-strictions the size of our corpora is much smallerthan the commonly used newspaper corpora.
Forthe same reasons, CLIR techniques for retrievingcomparable documents are not yet available (on thecontrary, the goal of our work is to provide re-sources for a medical CLIR system).
Thirdly, thetwo languages are so similar that a high amountof translations could already be acquired by apply-ing string mapping rules (this approach to cognatemapping has also been discussed by MacWhinney(1995) for second language acquisition of humanlearners).
Finally, rather than acquiring bilateralword translation, our focus lies on assigning sub-words to interlingual semantic identifiers.5 Conclusions and Further WorkIn a first round of experiments, we have shownthat a considerable amount of Portuguese subwordsfrom the medical domain could be mapped to Span-ish cognate stems applying simple string transfor-mation rules.
We then used the local context inlanguage-specific corpora in order to validate thesecognate pairs.
However, our results also reveal thelimitations of such an approach, at least for infre-quent stems, due to the small corpus size.
Ac-cordingly, for future experiments one has to pro-vide much larger text corpora, paticularly in the nextsteps of our experiments, in which the Spanish lexi-con will be completed by subwords which cannot begenerated from their Portuguese translations.
Here,we will acquire new Spanish lexeme candidates byautomated stemming, and retrieve their Portuguesetranslations by exploring their local context.
Thisrequires, however, huge corpora, exceeding the cur-rent ones by several orders of magnitude.
Addition-ally, their documents will have to be related usingclustering techniques.
The usability of the resulting,mainly automatically generated Spanish extensionof the MORPHOSAURUS lexicon for the purpose ofcross-language text retrieval can then be evaluatedin real CLIR experiments as previously done forEnglish, German and Portuguese (cf.
Hahn et al(2004)).Acknowledgements.This work was partly supported by the GermanResearch Foundation (DFG), grant KL 640/5-1,and by the Brazilian National Council for Scien-tific Research and Development (CNPq), grants551277/01-7 and 550240/03-9.ReferencesGosia Barker and Richard F. E. Sutcliffe.
2000.
Anexperiment in the semi-automatic identificationof false-cognates between English and Polish.
InProceedings of the Irish Conference on ArtificialIntelligence and Cognitive Science.Peter F. Brown, John Cocke, Stephen A. DellaPietra, Vincent J. Della Pietra, Fredrick Je-linek, John D. Lafferty, Robert L. Mercer, andPaul S. Roossin.
1990.
A statistical approach tomachine translation.
Computational Linguistics,16(2):79?85.Julio Gonzalo, Felisa Verdejo, and Irina Chugur.1999.
Using EUROWORDNET in a concept-based approach to cross-language text retrieval.Applied Artificial Intelligence, 13(7):647?678.Udo Hahn, Korne?l Marko?, Michael Poprat, Ste-fan Schulz, and Joachim Wermter.
2004.
Cross-ing languages in text retrieval via an interlingua.In Proceedings of the 7th International RIAO?04Conference, pages 82?99.Philipp Koehn and Kevin Knight.
2002.
Learninga translation lexicon from monolingual corpora.In Unsupervised Lexical Acquisition: Proceed-ings of the Workshop of the ACL Special Inter-est Group on the Lexicon (SIGLEX), pages 9?16.Association for Computational Linguistics.Brian MacWhinney.
1995.
Language-specific pre-diction in foreign language learning.
LanguageTesting, 12(3):292?320.Korne?l Marko?, Phillip Daumke, Stefan Schulz,and Udo Hahn.
2003.
Cross-language MESHindexing using morpho-semantic normalization.In AMIA?03 ?
Proceedings of the 2003 AnnualSymposium of the American Medical InformaticsAssociation, pages 425?429.
Philadelphia, PA:Hanley & Belfus.Ari Pirkola, Jarmo Toivonen, Heikki Keskustalo,Kari Visala, and Kalervo Ja?rvelin.
2003.
Fuzzytranslation of cross-lingual spelling variants.
InSIGIR 2003 ?
Proceedings of the 26th Annual In-ternational ACM SIGIR Conference on Researchand Development in Information Retrieval, pages345?352.
Toronto, Canada, 2003, New York, NY:ACM.Reinhard Rapp.
1999.
Automatic identificationof word translations from unrelated English andGerman corpora.
In Proceedings of the 37th An-nual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, pages 519?526.
San Francisco,CA: Morgan Kaufmann.Miguel Ruiz, Anne Diekema, and Pa?raic Sheridan.1999.
CINDOR conceptual interlingua documentretrieval: TREC-8 evaluation.
In Proceedingsof the 8th Text REtrieval Conference (TREC-8),pages 597?606.
National Institute of Standardsand Technology (NIST).
NIST Special Publica-tion, No.
500-246.Gerard Salton and Michael J. McGill.
1983.
Intro-duction to Modern Information Retrieval.
NewYork, NY: McGraw Hill.MESH.
2001.
Medical Subject Headings.Bethesda, MD: National Library of Medicine.Stefan Schulz and Udo Hahn.
2000.
Morpheme-based, cross-lingual indexing for medical docu-ment retrieval.
International Journal of MedicalInformatics, 59(3):87?99.Stefan Schulz, Martin Honeck, and Udo Hahn.2002.
Biomedical text retrieval in languages witha complex morphology.
In Proceedings of theACL 2002 Workshop ?Natural Language Process-ing in the Biomedical Domain?, pages 61?68.New Brunswick, NJ: Association for Computa-tional Linguistics (ACL).Davide Turcato.
1998.
Automaticaly creating bilin-gual lexicons for machine translation from bilin-gual text.
In COLING/ACL?98 ?
Proceedings ofthe 36th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics & 17th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics, vol-ume 2, pages 1299?1306.
San Francisco, CA:Morgan Kaufmann.Takehito Utsuro, Takashi Horiuchi, TakeshiHamamoto, Kohei Hino, and Takeaki Nakayama.2003.
Effect of cross-language IR in bilinguallexicon acquisition from comparable corpora.
InEACL?03 ?
Proceedings of the 11th Conferenceof the European Chapter of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pages 355?362.Association for Computational Linguistics.
