Coling 2008: Companion volume ?
Posters and Demonstrations, pages 3?6Manchester, August 2008Metaphor in Textual EntailmentRodrigo AgerriSchool of Computer Science, University of BirmimghamB15 2TT Birmingham, UKr.agerri@cs.bham.ac.ukAbstractMetaphor understanding in ComputationalLinguistics has largely been focused on thedevelopment of stand-alone prototypes forwhich only small-scale evaluations are car-ried out.
This has made difficult the in-clusion of metaphor in the developmentof natural language processing applica-tions.
However, dealing with metaphorproperly is ultimately crucial for any au-tomated language technology that is to betruly human-friendly or able to properlyappreciate utterances by humans.
This pa-per proposes to bring metaphor into theRecognizing Textual Entailment task.
Bydoing so, the coverage of textual entail-ment systems would be broadened andmetaphor research would benefit from thetextual entailment evaluation framework.1 IntroductionUsing metaphorical language is common in mostforms of everyday language, from ordinary con-versation, ?having ideas in the back of the mind?,through newspaper articles, ?global oil pricesclung near their highest levels?, to scientific ar-ticles, ?the variable N goes from 1 to 100?.Metaphor is important in part because it is aneconomical and directly appealing way of talkingabout many sorts of subject matter in human life,such as time, money, relationships, emotions, poli-tics, etc.
Most importantly, metaphor can have ma-jor effects on what can be properly inferred froman utterance or passage.c?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative CommonsAttribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unported li-cense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).Some rights reserved.Most of the development of natural languageprocessing (NLP) applications has been focused onspecific tasks such as Information Retrieval (IR)and Question Answering (QA), largely ignoringthe question of figurative use of language.
More-over, considering the inherent difficulty in evaluat-ing deep approaches to language in a large-scalemanner, up to date there is not a common eval-uation framework, corpora or other resources formetaphor processing.
It certainly has not helpedthat most of the computational developments onmetaphor processing have largely been stand-alonesystems that are not empirically evaluated on alarge scale (Fass, 1997; Falkenhainer et al, 1989;Hobbs, 1992; Martin, 1990; Barnden et al, 2003).This paper proposes to address this by adaptingthe Recognizing Textual Entailment (RTE) frame-work for metaphor interpretation.
RTE aims to bean abstract and generic task that captures major se-mantic inference needs across applications (Daganet al, 2007).
RTE is considered central for thedevelopment of intelligent yet robust natural lan-guage processing systems because most of the se-mantic inference needed in natural language appli-cations such as QA and IE can be characterized asproblems in RTE (Dagan et al, 2007).
Intuitively,textual entailment consists of determining whethera hypothesis can be inferred from a given text.
Thetextual entailment operational definition is a direc-tional relation between two text fragments, Text Tand Hypothesis H such that T entails H if humansreading T and considering H will infer that H fol-lows from T. An illustration can be given by ex-ample 1560 of the RTE-1 dataset (which involvesa metaphor in the use of ?incubate?
):T: The technological triumph known as GPSwas incubated in the mind of Ivan Getting.3H: Ivan Getting invented the GPS.As in other NLP applications, figurative languagehas merely been noted as problem in the RTE field.However, we believe that RTE provides a gen-eral evaluation framework for semantic processingwhich can be adapted for the computational test-ing and evaluation of theories that aim to explainthe semantic inferences involved in metaphor res-olution.
Furthermore, including metaphor in theRTE task may improve the performance and scopeof textual entailment systems, which in turn mayallow to bring metaphor into the development ofNLP systems.2 The Role of Metaphor in TextualInferenceMetaphorical use of language crucially affects theinferences that can be drawn from a text.
Includ-ing metaphor in textual entailment would amountto establish whether a hypothesis H can be in-ferred from a text T, where (at least) T containsa metaphorical expression whose processing is rel-evant to judge the entailment.2.1 Re-formulating the problemIt is usual to assume a view of metaphor under-standing as involving some notion of propertiesand relations of events that are transferred froma source domain into a target domain.
In thisview, a (declarative) metaphorical text conveys in-formation about some target domain by means ofa number of correspondences between entities inthe source and the target domains.
Lakoff andassociates argue that source to target correspon-dences are part of more general schemes called?conceptual metaphors?
(Lakoff, 2004) which wecall ?metaphorical views?.
For the GPS T-H pairin the previous section, a metaphorical view suchas MIND AS PHYSICAL SPACE would capturethe correspondence between mind in the source tospecial container or incubator in the target.Most of the computational approaches tometaphor processing have focused on the develop-ment of reasoning systems which take a metaphor-ical expression as input and perform some reason-ing to prove the correct output ?
previously givenby the researcher.
The difficulties in scaling-upand the lack of empirical evaluation have been themain chronic problems of metaphor understandingsystems.
Furthermore, a task consisting of provid-ing an interpretation of a text such as T above ?the GPS being incubated in the mind of Ivan Get-ting ?
is very complex because it needs to con-sider and resolve what the ?correct interpretation?is from the number of possible interpretations thatcan be conveyed by (the use of) ?incubating?.
Con-versely, the task becomes easier if the task faced isto judge whether H follows from T; in the GPS ex-ample above, H sets up the context to interpret themetaphorical expression in T, which in turn wouldhelp to correctly judge that the GPS was inventedby Ivan Getting (?incubate?
can be used instead of?develop?, ?invent?, etc.).
Thus, a slightly modi-fied H would presumably lead to connotations ofthe metaphorical use of ?incubate?
previously notconsidered:T: The technological triumph known as GPSwas incubated in the mind of Ivan Getting.H?
: Ivan Getting accidentally invented theGPS.A reasonable judgment is that H is not entailed byT, since an incubation process in this particular ex-ample would seem to indicate a careful nurturingof ideas that were brought slowly into life and soon, within Ivan Getting?s mind.
The modified Hbrings extra connotations of the metaphorical useof ?incubate?
that are crucial to establish the nega-tive entailment judgment.2.2 Metaphor in RTE ChallengesEven though annotators aimed to filter outmetaphorical uses of language from the RTEdatasets (Zaenen et al, 2005), some metaphori-cal texts have eluded the annotators?
selection poli-cies (Bos and Markert, 2006).
Our study of RTEdatasets looking for pairs in which resolving ametaphorical expression was relevant for the en-tailment judgment uncovered few and mostly con-ventional metaphors.
We have focused on 10 pairsin RTE-1 and 9 in RTE-2.
Some of them are listedhere:T1: Lyon is actually the gastronomic capital of France.H1: Lyon is the capital of France.T2: The upper house of the Russian parliament has ap-proved a controversial bill to tighten state control overnon-governmental organisations (NGOs).H2: Russian parliament closes NGOs.T3: Convinced that pro-American officials are in the ascen-dancy in Tokyo, they talk about turning Japan into ?theBritain of the Far East.
?4H3: Britain is located in the Far East.T4: Stocks rallied for a second session Thursday, boostedby falling oil prices and ongoing relief that the presi-dential election has passed without incident.H4: The falling oil prices had a positive impact on stocks.An evaluation of the systems?
accuracy for thepairs involving metaphor was performed to test ifthere was any significant difference with respect tothe overall accuracy results reported in the officialRTE challenges.
The RTE-1 results are not pub-licly available, so the study is restricted to the 7runs which were made available ?
including 4 ofthe best 5 systems.
Table 1 shows the official over-all accuracy results and the results of the evaluationover the 10 pairs involving metaphor:Author (Group) Overall MetaphorBayer (MITRE) 0.586 0.4Herrera (UNED) 0.566 0.20.558 0.2Bos (Rome/Leeds) 0.563 0.20.555 0.1Newman (Dublin) 0.563 0.10.565 0.6Table 1: RTE-1 Accuracy Comparison.Although the sample of metaphor pairs is fairlysmall, table 1 shows that there is a trend for the ac-curacy to be significantly lower when metaphor isinvolved than for the overall results (which agreeswith Bos and Markert?s (2006) diagnostic).RTE-2 results are publicly available and for thisstudy 8 runs of the best scoring systems (onlythose which also submitted the average precisionresults are considered) and 2 with lower accuracywere chosen.
Table 2 confirms the trend sug-gested by table 1, namely, that the accuracy scoreis lower when the judgement depends on process-ing metaphorical uses of language.
How signif-icant are these results?
For the RTE-1 pairs, aFisher?s test of independence establishes that for5 out of the 7 runs the difference in performance isstatistically significant at the 0.05 level.
The sameresults were obtained for 7 of the 10 RTE-2 runscompared in table 2.3 DiscussionAlthough only few pairs containing fairly conven-tional metaphors were uncovered from the RTEAuthor (Group) Overall MetaphorHickl (LCC) 0.7538 0.4444Tatu (LCC) 0.7375 0.5555Zanzotto (Milan/Rome) 0.6388 0.2222Adams (Dallas) 0.6262 0.3333Bos (Rome/Leeds) 0.6162 0.1111Kouylekov (Trento) 0.6050 0.1111Vanderwende (Stanford) 0.6025 0.1111Herrera (UNED) 0.5975 0.1111Clarke (Sussex) 0.5275 0.1111Newman (Dublin) 0.5250 0.4444Table 2: RTE-2 Accuracy Comparison.datasets, the results obtained confirm the hypoth-esis that the ability to process metaphor wouldbroaden the coverage of textual entailment sys-tems, thereby improving their overall performance.It should also be considered that achieving statisti-cal significance is harder when the overall resultsare not that high, as shown by the fact that we getstatistical significance for Hickl?s system and notfor Newman?s and Adam?s.Moreover, it is envisaged that the relatively goodperformance of some of the systems (e.g, Hickland Tatu) is due to the relative lack of open-endedmetaphors in the pairs used for the analysis.
Thisalso shows that shallow techniques can be fruitfulfor processing conventional metaphor.
However,open-ended metaphors may pose more complexproblems.
For example, a fairly deep analysis maypresumably be needed to extract the metaphori-cal connotations conveyed by ?incubate?
(about thesource to target transfer of carefully growing andnurturing) to correctly judged the lack of entail-ment for the modified hypothesis ?Ivan Getting ac-cidentally invented the GPS?.
This is also true formetaphors about ?deepest recesses of the mind?
(in RTE-1 dataset), etc.
This type of open-endedmetaphors have been subjected to a in-depth anal-ysis (both formal and computational) within theATT-Meta system and approach for metaphor in-terpretation (Agerri et al, 2007; Barnden et al,2003).
Adapting it for textual entailment may fa-cilitate the processing of open-ended metaphor ina textual entailment task.Metaphor understanding systems have notaimed to be empirically evaluated on a large-scale, but have chosen to focus instead on the in-depth analysis of small number of examples.
Asa consequence, there are not common resources5such as corpora or shared task evaluation exer-cises for metaphor resolution.
In order to makeuse of the RTE evaluation framework to promoteempirically-based research on metaphor under-standing, the first task would aim to build datasetsthat for the first time would allow researchers totrain and (empirically) evaluate their systems.
Anobvious strategy would be to follow RTE guide-lines with the additional requirement that at least Tshould contain a metaphorical expression relevantto judge the entailment.The RTE evaluation framework has the advan-tage that it is theory neutral, namely, it does notdepend on any semantic formalism and works onopen domain data.
However, the RTE evaluationframework has the disadvantage of being a ?black-box?
type of evaluation.
It makes very difficult toisolate the semantic task from the task of retriev-ing the necessary background knowledge (Zaenenet al, 2005; Bos, 2008).
Furthermore, it is not de-signed to measure performance on specific seman-tic phenomena, and it is therefore difficult to knowwhy a system is working correctly or incorrectly.For example, all but one of the RTE-1 runs stud-ied incorrectly judged the T1-H1 pair to be true(about ?gastronomic capital?).
It is difficult to becertain that this was solely due to a lack of abilityto deal with metaphor instead of a problem aboutnoun modifiers.
However, there is not currently asuitable alternative to RTE semantic evaluation astrying to isolate the semantic task (e.g., metaphor)from background knowledge usually results in us-ing artificial examples.
On the bright side, the RTEframework will allow metaphor research to grapplemore extensively than before with the interactionsbetween metaphor and other language phenomena.4 Concluding RemarksThe aim of this paper is two fold: Firstly, it pro-vides evidence showing that the ability of process-ing metaphor may improve the performance of tex-tual inference systems.
Secondly, it argues thatRTE may provide a much needed general semanticframework for common evaluations and computa-tional testing of theories that aim to explain open-ended usages of metaphor in everyday text.
TheATT-Meta approach and system to metaphor inter-pretation may be adapted for this particular task(Barnden et al, 2003).
Including metaphor pro-cessing in textual entailment systems can also pro-mote the inclusion of metaphor resolution in NLPapplications such as Question Answering, Docu-ment Summarization or Information Retrieval.AcknowledgmentsThanks to the RTE-1 participants that made avail-able their results.
Special thanks to John Barndenand Alan Wallington for their comments and sug-gestions.ReferencesAgerri, R., J.A.
Barnden, M.G.
Lee, and A.M. Walling-ton.
2007.
Metaphor, inference and domain in-dependent mappings.
In Proceedings of ResearchAdvances in Natural Language Processing (RANLP2007), pages 17?24, Borovets, Bulgaria.Barnden, J., S. Glasbey, M. Lee, and A. Wallington.2003.
Domain-transcending mappings in a systemfor metaphorical reasoning.
In Companion Proceed-ings of the 10th Conference on the European Chap-ter of the Association for Computational Linguistics(EACL-03), pages 57?61.Bos, J. and K. Markert.
2006.
Recognizing tex-tual entailment with robust logical inference.
InQui?nonero-Candela, J., I. Dagan, B. Magnini, andF.
d?Alch?e Buc, editors, MLCW 2005, volume 3944of LNAI, pages 404?426.
Springer-Verlag.Bos, J.
2008.
Lets not argue about semantics.
InProceedings of the Sixth International Language Re-sources and Evaluation (LREC?08), Marrakech, Mo-rocco.Dagan, I., O. Glickman, and B. Magnini.
2007.
ThePASCAL Recognising Textual Entailment challenge.In Qui?nonero-Candela, J., I. Dagan, B. Magnini, andF.
d?Alch?e Buc, editors, MLCW 2005, volume 3944of LNAI, pages 177?190.
Springer-Verlag.Falkenhainer, B., K.D.
Forbus, and D. Gentner.
1989.The structure-mapping engine: algorithm and exam-ples.
Artificial Intelligence, 41(1):1?63.Fass, D. 1997.
Processing metaphor and metonymy.Ablex, Greenwich, Connecticut.Hobbs, J.R. 1992.
Metaphor and abduction.
In Ortony,A., J.
Slack, and O.
Stock, editors, Communicationfrom an Artificial Intelligence Perspective, pages 35?58.
Springer-Verlag, Berlin.Lakoff, G. 2004.
Conceptual metaphor home page.http://cogsci.berkeley.edu/lakoff/MetaphorHome.html.Martin, J.H.
1990.
A computational model of metaphorinterpretation.
Academic Press, New York.Zaenen, A., L. Karttunen, and R. Crouch.
2005.
Lo-cal textual inference: Can it be defined or circum-scribed?
In Proceedings of the ACL 05 Workshop onEmpirical Modelling of Semantic Equivalence andEntailment, pages 31?36.6
