Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2008), pages 945?952Manchester, August 2008A Fluid Knowledge Representation for Understanding and GeneratingCreative MetaphorsTony VealeSchool of Computer ScienceUniversity College DublinIrelandtony.veale@ucd.ieYanfen HaoSchool of Computer ScienceUniversity College DublinIrelandyanfen.hao@ucd.ieAbstractCreative metaphor is a phenomenon thatstretches and bends the conventions of se-mantic description, often to humorous andpoetic extremes.
The computational mod-eling of metaphor thus requires a knowl-edge representation that is just as stretch-able and semantically accommodating.
Wepresent here a flexible knowledge repre-sentation for metaphor interpretation andgeneration, called Talking Points, and de-scribe how talking points can be acquiredon a large scale from WordNet (Fellbaum,1998) and from the web.
We show howtalking points can be fluidly connected toform a slipnet, and demonstrate that talk-ing points provide an especially conciserepresentation for concepts in general.1 IntroductionMetaphor serves two important roles in language.The first of these is to make the unfamiliar and thestrange seem more familiar and understandable(Indurkhya, 1992).
For instance, one mightdescribe a burqa (a full body covering for Muslimwomen) as a suit of armor, as a shield againstprying eyes or, depending on one?s communi-cation goal, as a wearable cage.
The other roleof metaphor is most often associated with thepoetic and fanciful use of language, but is no lessimportant: to make the familiar and mundaneseem strange and unfamiliar.
In this latter guise,metaphor allows us to view a commonplace ideafrom a new and revealing category perspectivec?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative CommonsAttribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unported li-cense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).Some rights reserved.
(Camac and Glucksberg, 1984).
For instance,one might describe makeup as ?the Westernburqa?, to communicate not just the idea that eachinvolves a covering of the female form, but thateach reflects a society-imposed expectation onthe public presentation of women.
Each of theseroles is a manifestation of the same underlyingmechanism for combining concepts, for under-standing how they interact (Black, 1962) and fordetermining how they are connected (Fauconnierand Turner, 1998), even if those connections aretenuous, hidden or not always obvious (Collinsand Loftus, 1975).
For example, consider theconnections needed to make and understand theabove metaphors:Burqa ??
for concealing a Muslim woman?
for protecting a Muslim woman?
protecting a woman?
for protecting a personArmor ?Make-up ??
typically worn by women?
expected to be worn by women?
must be worn by women?
must be worn by Muslim womenBurqa ?In each case we see how metaphor draws outand highlights, in a modified or exaggerated form,an existing aspect of each target concept.
Inother words, metaphor does not indiscriminatelytransplant arbitrary aspects of a source conceptonto a target, but accommodates a selectivegraft of the most salient aspects of this sourceconcept onto those aspects of the target that can945be highlighted by the comparison (Ortony, 1979).This connection between concepts requires aflexible knowledge representation, one that allowsthe connections between non-identical source andtarget aspects to be recognized, reconciled andeven compressed (Fauconnier and Turner, 1998).This fluid representation (Hofstadter et al, 1995)defines the search space in which the processes ofmetaphor generation and metaphor understandingare cognitively situated (Veale and O?Donoghue,2000): for generation, fluid connectivity allows asystem to search outwards from a given target tofind those potential source concepts that offer anew yet appropriate perspective; for understandingpurposes, connectivity allows an agent to focuson those key aspects of a source concept that aremost apt for a target because they can be linked tothat target.In this paper we describe the constructionof a fluid knowledge representation for creativemetaphor processing, one that is acquired automat-ically from WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998) and fromthe texts of the web.
In section 2 we summarizerelated work in the field of metaphor as it pertainsto flexible knowledge representation.
In section 3we describe two complementary means of acquir-ing the basic elements of this representation, fromWordNet and from the web, before describing howthese elements can be placed into a fluid networkof connections - what Hofstadter (ibid) calls a slip-net - in section 4.
We then present in section 5some empirical evaluation of the acquired repre-sentation on an objective test of term categoriza-tion, before concluding with some consideration offuture work in section 6.2 Related WorkSince metaphor can be viewed as a stretchingof linguistic conventions to cover new conceptualground, the interpretation of metaphor cruciallyhinges on a systems ability to recognize these con-ventions and accommodate the exceptional mean-ing conveyed by each figurative expression.
In-deed, most computational approaches embody asense of what it means to be literal, and accom-modate metaphoric meanings within this conven-tional scheme through a form of relaxation, map-ping or translation.
Wilks (1978) advocates thatthe typically hard constraints that define a literalsemantics should instead be modeled as soft pref-erences that can accommodate the violations thatarise in metaphoric utterances, while Fass (1991)builds on this view to show how these violationscan be repaired to thus capture the literal intent be-hind each metaphor.
This repair process in turnrelies on the availability of a concept taxonomythrough which metaphoric uses can be mappedonto their literal counterparts; a car that ?drinksgasoline?
would thus be understood as a car that?consumes gasoline?.
Way (1991) emphasizesthe importance of this taxonomy by positing acentral role for a dynamic type hierarchy (DTH)in metaphor, one that can create new and com-plex taxonyms on the fly.
For instance, Way?sDTH would understand the ?make-up as Westernburqa?
metaphor via a dynamically created tax-onym like things-women-are-expected-to-wear-in-public, though Way offers no algorithmic basisfor the workings of such a remarkable taxonomy.Another family of computational approaches com-bines explicit knowledge about certain metaphorswith knowledge about the domains connected bythese metaphors.
Martin?s (1990) Midas sys-tem encodes schematic knowledge about conven-tionalized metaphors such as ?to kill a process?and ?to open a program?, and uses this knowl-edge to fit novel variations of these metaphorsinto the most appropriate schemas.
Barnden andLee (2002) focus on the role of inference in ametaphorically-structured domain, and describe asystem called ATTMeta that contains sufficientknowledge about e.g., conventional metaphors ofmind to reason about the mental states implied bythese metaphors.
Each of these approaches seesmetaphor interpretation as a process of fitting whatis said to what can meaningfully be representedand reasoned about.
This fitting process is most ex-plicitly modelled by Hofstadter et al (1995), whofocus on the slippage processes that are required tounderstand analogies in abstract domains that e.g.,involve the mapping of letter sequences or the mir-roring of actions in a highly stylized tabletop en-vironment.
Though simplified and toy-like, theseare non-deterministic problem domains that arenonetheless shaped by a wide range of pragmaticpressures.
Hofstadter and Mitchell (1994) modelthese pressures using a slipnet, a probabilistic net-work in which concepts are linked to others intowhich they can slip or be substituted with.
In thisview, deeply embedded concepts that are furtherremoved from direct observation are less likely toengage in slippage than more superficial concepts.946To take a linguistic example, word choice in natu-ral language generation is more susceptible to slip-page (as influenced by synonym availability) thanthe concepts underlying the meaning of a sentence.Slippage can be seen as a lossy form of con-ceptual re-representation: the greater the slippage,the more dramatic the re-representation and thegreater the potential for loss of accuracy.
Forinstance, a recent magazine cover proclaims thegovernor of California, Arnold Schwarzenegger,as ?president of 12% of the United States?.
Thisconceptualization can be viewed as an interme-diate stage in a slippage path from Governor toPresident as follows:Governor of California ??
governor of 12% of the United States?
leader of 12% of the United States?
president of 12% of the United States?
president of 100% of the United StatesPresident of the U.S. ?This labeling is creative enough to grace amagazine cover because it involves an ambitiouslevel of re-conceptualization, at least from acomputational perspective.
The pivotal insightcomes from California = 12% of the UnitedStates, an ad-hoc synonym that one is unlikely tofind in a dictionary or general-purpose resourcelike WordNet.
While ultimately aiming for thiskind of creative transformation, our goal in thispaper is more modest: to build a slippage networkof concepts that are connected via their mostsalient features, one that combines the principledflexibility of a Hofstadter-style slipnet with thecomprehensive scale of a resource like WordNet.3 Acquiring Conceptual Talking PointsWe refer to the knowledge elements connectedby this slipnet as conceptual talking points.
Wefirst describe the form of these talking pointsand how they are acquired, before describing insection 4 how slippage operates between thesetalking points.
We discuss two complementarykinds of talking point here: objective descriptions,extracted from WordNet glosses, and informal,stereotypical descriptions, harvested from the textof the web via a search engine like Google.3.1 Objective Talking PointsObjective talking points are aspects of conceptualdescription that contribute to the consensus defini-tional view of a concept.
Though WordNet doesnot provide explicit semantic criteria for the defi-nition of each lexical concept, many of these cri-teria can be gleaned from a shallow parse of thepithy dictionary gloss it associates with each (e.g.,see Ahlswede and Evans, 1988).
Thus, wheneverthe head phrase of a concept?s gloss has the form?ADJ+NOUN?
where NOUN can denote a hyper-nym of the concept, we can associate the talkingpoint is ADJ:NOUN with that concept.
For exam-ple, the gloss of {Hamas} is ?a militant Islamicfundamentalist political movement that ...?, whichyields the talking points is militant:movement,is islamic:movement, is fundamentalist:movementand is political:movement for Hamas.
When aWordNet concept has a hypernym of the form{ADJ NOUN}, where NOUN can denote a hy-pernym of this concept, we likewise associatethe talking point is ADJ:NOUN with that con-cept.
For example, {Taliban, Taleban} has{religious movement} as a hypernym, whichyields is religious:movement as a talking point forTaliban.Objective talking points can also be gleanedfrom the subject-verb-object structure of a Word-Net gloss.
For instance, the gloss for synset{conductor, music director} is ?the person wholeads a musical group?, which yields the talkingpoint leads:musical group.
The hypernym ofthis concept, {musician}, has the gloss ?artistwho composes or conducts music ...?, whichyields the talking points composes:music and con-ducts:music that are then inherited by {conductor,...} and other sub-types of musician in WordNet.A shallow parse will generally not lead to acomplete understanding of a concept, but willtypically produce some interesting talking pointsof the predicate:object variety that can be usedto relate a concept to others that are analogicallyor metaphorically similar.
Using WordNet?snoun and verb taxonomies, we can identify thefollowing slippage paths between talking points:composes:music ?
composes:speech ?writes:speech ?
writes:oration ?
writes:sermon?
writes:law ?
writes:philosophy ?writes:theorem ?
writes:plan ?
...947In all, we extract talking points of the formis adj:noun for over 40,000 WordNet concepts,and talking points of the form verb:noun for over50,000 concepts.
However, the real power oftalking points emerges when they are connected toform a slipnet, as we discuss in section 4.3.2 Stereotypical Talking PointsThe talking points we harvest from the web do nothave the authoritative, definitional character wefind in hand-crafted resources like WordNet, butthey do reflect how people typically speak of (and,perhaps, actually think of) the world.
Veale andHao (2007) argue that similes present the clear-est window into the stereotypical talking pointsthat underpin everyday conversations, and collectfrom the web instances of the pattern ?as ADJ as a*?
for thousands of WordNet adjectives.
Thoughthe simile frame is somewhat leaky in English,and prone to subversion by irony, Veale and Haoconstruct a comprehensive database of more than12,000 highly stereotypical adjective:noun asso-ciations, such as precise:surgeon, straight:arrow,balanced:pyramid and sharp:knife.
We use theirdata here, as the basis of an additional web harvest-ing process to gather stereotypical talking pointsof the form has ADJ:facet.
For every stereotypi-cal association ADJ:NOUN in their database, wesend the query ?the ADJ * of a|an|the NOUN?
toGoogle and collect noun values for the wildcard *from the first 200 hits returned for each query.This pattern allows us to determine the con-ceptual attributes that are implicit in each stereo-typical adjective:noun pairing.
For instance, ?thedelicate hands of a surgeon?
and ?the inspiringvoice of a preacher?
reveal that hand is a salientattribute of surgeons while voice is a salient at-tribute of preachers.
The frequency with whichwe find these attributes on the web also allowsus to build a textured representation for each con-cept.
So while these expanded web patterns alsoreveal that surgeons have a thorough eye andsteady nerves, ?the hands of a surgeon?
are men-tioned far more frequently and are thus far moresalient to our understanding of surgeons.
To avoidnoise, the set of allowable attribute nouns, suchas hands, soul, heart, voice, etc., is limited to thenouns in WordNet that denote a kind of trait, bodypart, quality, activity, ability or faculty.
This al-lows us to acquire meaningful talking points likehas magical:skill for Wizard, has brave:spirit forLion and has enduring:beauty for Diamond, whileavoiding dubious or misleading talking points likehas proud:owner for Peacock that lack either rep-resentational value or insight.
In all, this pro-cess acquires 18,794 stereotypical talking pointsfor 2032 different WordNet noun senses, for an av-erage of 9 facet:feature pairs per sense.
Specificsenses are identified automatically, by exploitingWordNet?s network of hypernymy and synonymyrelations to connect talking points that describevariations of the same concept.4 Building a Slipnet of Talking PointsTo construct a slipnet in the style of Hofstadterand Mitchell (1994), but on the scale of WordNet,we need to connect those talking points that ex-press similar but different meanings, and to quan-tify the difference between these meanings.
Is-sues of scale mean that we need only connecttalking points that are close in meaning, sincegreater slippage can be achieved by followinglonger paths through the slipnet.
This slippage canbe based on semantic or pragmatic criteria.
Thus,the talking points has sacred:authority (for Pope)and has sacred:power (for God) are semanticallysimilar since the potency sense of ?authority?
isa specialization of the control sense of ?power?in WordNet.
Likewise, writes:speech and com-poses:speech are similar because ?compose?
and?write?
are synonymous in the context of literarycreation, and it is this particular linkage that sup-ports a slippage pathway from composes:music towrites:poetry.
In contrast, is political:movement(for Hamas) and is religious:movement (for Tal-iban) are pragmatically similar since movementsthat are religious often have a political agenda also.We can use WordNet to construct the semanticlinks of the slipnet, but pragmatic links like theserequire not just word senses but a sense of theworld, of a kind we can distil from the text of theweb.Two talking points is ADJ1:OBJ1andis ADJ2:OBJ2should be connected in theslipnet if: OBJ1and OBJ2are semantically close(i.e., synonymous, or semantic siblings in Word-Net); and ADJ1and ADJ2are synonymous, orADJ1frequently implies ADJ2or ADJ2frequentlyimplies ADJ1.
These implications are recog-nized and quantified using another web trawlingprocess, in which the query ?as * and * as?
isused to harvest pairs of adjectives that are seen to948mutually reinforce each other in web comparisons.This search reveals that ?religious?
reinforces?superstitious?
(5 times), ?moral?
(4), ?political?
(3), ?conservative?
(3), ?intolerant?
(2) and?irrational?
(1).
These slippage connections linkis religious:movement to is political:movement(pragmatic) to is political:campaign (semantic)to is military:campaign (pragmatic), therebyconnecting Taliban (is religious:movement) toCrusade (is military:campaign).4.1 The Slipnet in ActionSlippage is a phenomenon best explained with anexample, so consider again the task of creatingmetaphors for the concept Pope.
We have al-ready seen that slippage among talking points al-lows Pope to be linked to the concept God via Pope?
has sacred:authority ?
has sacred:power ?God.
Pope can also be linked to Rabbi via thepath Pope ?
has sacred:words ?
has wise:words?
Rabbi and to Judge by extending this pathway:Pope ?
has sacred:words ?
has wise:words ?has solemn:words ?
Judge.
Black (1962) sawmetaphor as an interaction between concepts, inwhich the interpretation of a particular source con-cept depends crucially on how it is able to inter-act with a specific target concept.
This concept-sensitive interplay is clearly on display here.
ThePope can be metaphorically viewed as a warriornot by considering what it means for a genericperson to be a warrior, but by considering howthe concept Pope actually interacts with the con-cept Warrior, e.g., Pope ?
has infallible:voice ?has powerful:voice ?
Warrior.Consider the potential for slippage between ob-jective talking points from WordNet:Pope ??
leads:Roman Catholic Church?
leads:congregation?
leads:flock?
leads:mob?
leads:organized crimeDon (Crime Father) ?Pope ??
leads:Roman Catholic Church?
leads:congregation?
leads:political movement?
leads:gang?
leads:military forceWarlord (Military Leader) ?One can typically terminate a slippage path atany point, to produce different metaphors withvarying semantic similarity to the starting con-cept.
Thus, at leads:flock one can reach Shepherd,and from leads:political movement, one can reachCivil rights leader.A lexicon alone, like WordNet, is generally in-sufficient for metaphor processing, but such a re-source can still reveal useful lexical resonancesthat may enrich an interpretation.
In the exam-ple above, we see a resonance between the Pope,which WordNet alo lexicalizes as ?holy father?,and a mafia Don, which WordNet alo lexicalizesas ?father?.
Indeed, since WordNet conceptualizesRoman Catholic Church as a specialization of Or-ganized religion, the metaphor establishes a par-allelism between crime and religion as organizedactivities.5 Empirical EvaluationTo understand whether talking points are suffi-ciently descriptive of the concepts they are ac-quired for, we replicate here the clustering ex-periments of Almuhareb and Poesio (2004, 2005)which are designed to measure the effectiveness ofweb-acquired conceptual descriptions.
Since Al-muhareb and Poesio use WordNet as a semanticgold-standard, we consider here the effectivenessof stereotypical talking points alone; it would becircular to consider objective talking points, sincethese are extracted from WordNet.Almuhareb and Poesio describe two differentclustering experiments.
In the first, they choose214 English nouns from 13 of WordNet?s upper-level semantic categories, and proceed to harvestproperty values for these concepts from the webusing the pattern ?a|an|the * C is|was?.
This pat-tern yields a combined total of 51,045 values forall 214 nouns; these values are primarily adjec-tives, such as hot, black, etc., but noun-modifiersof C are also allowed, such as fruit for cake.
Theyalso harvest 8934 attribute nouns, such as temper-ature and color, using the query pattern ?the * ofthe C is|was?.
These values and attributes are thenused as the basis of a clustering algorithm to parti-tion the 214 nouns back into their original 13 cate-gories.
Comparing these clusters with the originalWordNet-based groupings, Almuhareb and Poesioreport a cluster accuracy of 71.96% using just val-ues like hot (all 51,045), an accuracy of 64.02% us-ing just attributes like temperature (all 8934), and949Table 1: Experiment 1, accuracy for 214 nounsApproach Values Attr?s Allonly only (V + A)Almu.
+ Poesio 71.96% 64.02% 85.51%(51045 (8934 (59979vals) attr) v+a)Talking Points 70.2% 78.7% 90.2%(2209 (4974 (7183vals) attr) v+a)an accuracy of 85.5% using both together (59979features).In a second, larger experiment, Almuhareb andPoesio select 402 nouns from 21 different seman-tic classes in WordNet, and proceed to harvest94,989 property values (again mostly adjectives)and 24,178 attribute nouns from the web usingthe same retrieval patterns.
They then appliedthe repeated bisections clustering algorithm to thislarger data set, and report an initial cluster puritymeasure of 56.7% using only property values likehot, 65.7% using only attributes like temperature,and 67.7% using both together.
Suspecting thatnoisy features contribute to the perceived drop inperformance, those authors then applied a varietyof noise filters to reduce the value set to just 51,345values and the attribute set to just 12,345 attributes,for a size reduction of about 50% in each case.This in turn leads to an improved cluster puritymeasure of 62.7% using property values only and70.9% using attributes only.
Surprisingly, filteringactually appears to reduce the clustering perfor-mance of both data-sets used together, to 66.4%.We replicate here both of these experiments us-ing the same data-sets of 214 and 402 nouns re-spectively.
For fairness, we collect raw descrip-tions for each of these nouns directly from the web,and use no filtering (manual or otherwise) to re-move poor or ill-formed descriptions.
We thus usethe pattern ?as * as a|an|the C?
to collect 2209 rawadjectival values for the 214 nouns of experiment1, and 5547 raw adjectival values for the 402 nounsof experiment 2.
We then use the pattern ?the ADJ* of a|an|the C?
to collect 4974 attributes for the214 nouns of experiment 1, and 3952 for the 402nouns of experiment 2; in each case, ADJ is boundto the raw adjectival values that were acquired us-ing ?as * as a|an|the C?.
A comparison of cluster-ing results is given in Tables 1 and 2.
These tablesillustrate that clustering is most effective when itTable 2: Experiment 2, accuracy for 402 nounsApproach Values Attr?s Allonly only (V + A)Almu.
+ Poesio 56.7% 65.7% 67.7%(no filtering) (94989 (24178 (119167vals) attr) v+a)Almu.
+ Poesio 62.7% 70.9% 66.4%(with filtering) (51345 (12345 (63690vals) attr) v+a)Talking Points 64.3% 54.7% 69.85%(5547 (3952 (9499vals) attr) v+a)is performed on the basis of both values and at-tributes (yielding the highest scores, 90.2% and69.85%, in each experiment respectively).
Theseresults thus support the combination of conceptualattributes with specific adjectival values into inte-grated talking points which reflect how people ac-tually talk about the concepts concerned.6 ConclusionsMetaphor is a knowledge-hungry phenomenon, soany computational treatment of metaphor will onlybe as good as the knowledge representation thatsupports it.
Moreover, from a computational per-spective, any theory of metaphor ?
cognitive, lin-guistic, or otherwise ?
is only as good as the al-gorithmic and representational insights that it pro-vides, and the scale of the implementation that itultimately allows us to realize.
In this paper wehave given computational form to some of the keyinsights in the metaphor literature, from the in-teraction theory of Black (1962) to the salienceimbalance theory of Ortony (1979) to the theoryof conceptual blending of Fauconnier and Turner(1998).
We also employ a key insight from thework of Hofstadter and his fluid analogies group(1995), that robust reasoning on a conceptual levelrequires a degree of slippage that must be sup-ported by the underlying knowledge representa-tion.Our knowledge base of talking points is derivedfrom two complementary information sources: theobjective definitions contained in WordNet (Fell-baum, 1998) and the stereotypical comparisonsthat pepper the texts of the web.
These sourcesyield a knowledge-base that is neither small norhand-crafted.
While the knowledge-base needsto grow by at least an order of magnitude, slip-950page means that non-identical talking points canbe treated as equivalent for purposes of robustprocessing, which in turn extends the halo oftalking points that surrounds each concept in theknowledge-base (Hofstadter et al, 1995).
Theexperiments of section 5 also indicate that, in apinch, new talking points for a previously under-represented concept can be acquired dynamicallyfrom the web with reasonable accuracy.
As itcurrently stands, the talking points approach tometaphor is robust enough and scalable enough togenerate simple but imaginative metaphors on de-mand for a wide range of user inputs.But what does it mean to state, at a knowledge-representation level, that lions and knights bothhave a brave heart, that wolves and tyrants bothhave a cruel face, or that eagles and warriorshave a fierce expression?
Stereotypical talkingpoints such as these can be poetic or metaphor-ical, and may express a viewpoint that is overlysimplistic, subjective or even technically inaccu-rate.
Nonetheless, our experiments suggest thatthe linguistic insights we acquire from non-literaldescriptions strongly reflect our ontological intu-itions about concepts and are more than mere lin-guistic decorations.
Most significantly, we seefrom these experiments that stereotypical talkingpoints yield an especially concise representation,since with no filtering of any kind, this approachachieves comparable clustering results with featuresets that are many times smaller than those used inprevious work.
We anticipate therefore that stereo-typical descriptions will be a key growth area forthe development of the talking points knowledge-base.The Pope examples of section 4.1. exem-plify the competence of the system as it is cur-rently implemented, while the Burqa and Gover-nor/President examples of sections 1 and 2 markout our future directions.
The Burqa examplesdemonstrate the need for a more complex repre-sentation of talking points that can accommodatenested propositions, while the Governor exampledemonstrates the need for more radical and ad-hocslippage patterns in creative metaphors.
Ratherthan add special rules to handle such individualcases (which are creative because of their one-off disposal nature), our ambition is to develop ageneral corpus-grounded mechanism for explain-ing all metaphor-related slippage.
We remain aconsiderable distance from this goal, yet believeit is best attained using the kind of robust and scal-able approach described here.ReferencesAlmuhareb, A. and M. Poesio.
2004.
Attribute-Based and Value-Based Clustering: An EvaluationIn proceedings of EMNLP, the Conference on Em-pirical Methods on Natural Language Processing.Barcelona.Almuhareb, A. and M. Poesio.
2005.
Concept Learn-ing and Categorization from the Web.
In proceed-ings of the annual meeting of the Cognitive Sciencesociety.
Italy.Ahlswede, T. and M. Evans.
1998.
Parsing vs. TextProcessing in the analysis of dictionary definitions.In proceedings of the 26th Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, 217?224.Barnden, J.
A. and M. G. Lee.
2002.
An ArtificialIntelligence Approach to Metaphor Understanding.Theoria et Historia Scientiarum, 6(1):399?412.Black, M. 1962.
Models and Metaphor: studies inlanguage and philosophy.
Ithaca, NY: Cornell Uni-versity Press.Camac, K. and S. Glucksberg.
1984.
Metaphorsdo not use associations between concepts, they areused to create them.
Journal of Psycholinguistic Re-search,13(6).Collins, A. and E. F. Loftus.
1975.
A Spreading-Activation Theory of Semantic Processing.
Psycho-logical Review 82, 407?428.Fauconnier, G. and M. Turner.
1998.
Conceptual In-tegration Networks.
Cognitive Science, 22(2):133?187.Fellbaum, C.
(ed.).
1998.
WordNet: An electronic lex-ical database.
The MIT Press.
1985 A comprehen-sive grammar of the English.Hofstadter, D. R. and M. Mitchell.
1994.
The Copy-cat Project: A model of mental fluidity and analogy-making.
In Holyoak, K.J.
& Barnden, J.
A.
(Eds.
)Advances in Connectionist and Neural ComputationTheory, Vol.
2.
Norwood, NJ: Ablex.Hofstadter, D. R. and the Fluid Analogy ResearchGroup.
1995.
Fluid Concepts and Creative Analo-gies: Computer Models of the Fundamental Mecha-nisms of Thought.
NY: Basic Books.Fass, D. 1991.
Met*: a method for discriminatingmetonymy and metaphor by computer.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 17(1):49?90.Indurkhya, B.
1992.
Metaphor and Cognition: Studiesin Cognitive Systems.
Kluwer Academic Publishers,Dordrecht: The Netherlands.951Martin, J. H. 1990.
A Computational Model ofMetaphor Interpretation.
NY: Academic Press.Ortony, A.
1979.
Beyond literal similarity.
Psycholog-ical Review, 86, 161?180.Veale, T. and Y. Hao.
2007.
Making WordNet Func-tional and Context-Sensitive.
In proceedings of the45th Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.
Czech Republic.Veale, T. and O?Donoghue.
2000.
Computation andBlending.
Cognitive Linguistics, 11(3?4), special is-sue on Conceptual Blending.Way, E. C. 1991.
Knowledge Representation andMetaphor.
Studies in Cognitive systems.
Holland:Kluwer.Wilks, Y.
1978.
Making Preferences More Active,Studies in Cognitive systems.
Artificial Intelligence11(3), 197?223.952
