Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2008), pages 73?80Manchester, August 2008A Classification of Dialogue Actions in Tutorial DialogueMark Buckley and Magdalena WolskaDept.
of Computational LinguisticsSaarland University66041 Saarbr?ucken, Germany{buckley|magda}@coli.uni-sb.deAbstractIn this paper we present a taxonomy of di-alogue moves which describe the actionsthat students and tutors perform in tutorialdialogue.
We are motivated by the need fora categorisation of such actions in order todevelop computational models for tutorialdialogue.
As such, we build both on exist-ing work on dialogue move categorisationfor tutorial dialogue as well as dialoguetaxonomies for general dialogue.
Our tax-onomy has been prepared by analysing acorpus of tutorial dialogues on mathemati-cal theorem proving.
We also detail an an-notation experiment in which we apply thetaxonomy and discuss idiosyncrasies in thedata which influence the decisions in thedialogue move classification.1 IntroductionThe field of Intelligent Tutoring Systems has seenrecent developments moving towards adding natu-ral language capabilities to computer-based tutor-ing (Graesser et al, 1999; Zinn, 2004; Litman andSilliman, 2004), motivated by empirical investiga-tions which point to the effectiveness of human tu-tors (Bloom, 1984; Moore, 1993; Graesser et al,1995).
However, to be able to interact with a stu-dent through the medium of natural language dia-logue, the system must have a model of how suchtutorial dialogues can progress and what utterancesare licenced.
In order to develop such a modelof dialogue, we need to understand and describethe ?actions?
performed with words, i.e.
speechacts (Austin, 1955) or dialogue moves.
This in-volves identifying and categorising the functionsc?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative CommonsAttribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unported li-cense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).Some rights reserved.that utterances may have in dialogue and their re-lationships to each other.Researchers in conversation and dialogue the-ory have proposed various general categorisa-tions of dialogue moves.
DIT++ (Bunt, 2000)is an example of a comprehensive multidimen-sional taxonomy of dialogue acts for informa-tion dialogues based on DAMSL (Allen and Core,1997), a general-purpose extensible taxonomy pro-posed as a standard for dialogue annotation.
TheDAMSL dialogue act taxonomy characterises utter-ances along four dimensions which correspond tofour levels of functions utterances may have.
Theforward looking function describes the utterance?seffect on the following interaction, the backwardlooking function, its relation to previous dialogue,the communicative status describes the compre-hensibility or interpretability of the utterance, andthe information level characterises the content ofthe utterance.Tsovaltzi and Karagjosova (2004) proposed anextension of the DAMSL classification based on ananalysis of tutorial dialogue corpora.
The pro-posed taxonomy adds a Task dimension whichconcentrates on tutor actions in the dialogue.1Building on this work, we propose a further ex-tension to this taxonomy inspired by our analysisfrom the point of view of task-related goals.
Theclassification we present (i) includes modificationsof the DAMSL categorisation motivated by tutorialdialogue, (ii) accounts for student?s actions, and(iii) introduces a Task progress dimension whosepurpose is to characterise the completion status ofa generally viewed ?task?, instantiated for the pur-pose of tutorial dialogue.
We validated our dia-logue act categorisation in a small-scale annotationexperiment whose results we present.This paper is organised as follows: In Section 2we introduce our data and taxonomy development1This classification has not been, to our knowledge, quan-titatively evaluated.73methodology.
In Section 3 we present the taxon-omy.
The results of the annotation experiment andtheir discussion are presented in Section 4.
Sec-tion 5 presents related work and Section 6 con-cludes the paper.2 The Data and Analysis MethodologyOur work is based on an analysis of two corpora oftutorial dialogues on mathematical theorem prov-ing.
We use the data to (i) verify the generaldialogue dimensions of the DAMSL taxonomy inthe context of tutorial dialogues, and (ii) extendthe taxonomy by developing the task dimension.While the specific task-level moves are instanti-ated for the mathematics tutoring domain, our aimis to maintain generality that would allow us tomodel task-level moves in other tutoring domainsas well as task-oriented dialogues in general.
Be-low we briefly introduce the corpora and outlineour methodology.Corpora We analysed two corpora of tutorialdialogues in the domain of mathematical theo-rem proving collected in Wizard-of-Oz experi-ments in which a human tutor (wizard) simulatedthe system?s behaviour (Benzm?uller et al, 2003;Benzm?uller et al, 2006a).
The domains of mathe-matics in the first (Corpus-I) and second (Corpus-II) corpora are naive set theory and binary relationsrespectively (Wolska et al, 2004; Benzm?uller etal., 2006b).In both experiments the dialogues were con-ducted in German using the keyboard and a graph-ical user interface.
The tutoring in the experimentdescribed in (Benzm?uller et al, 2003) was per-formed under three experimental conditions.
Thecontrol group (8 subjects) were tutored accordingto the minimal feedback strategy in which the tu-tor?s reactions were limited to informing the stu-dent as to the correctness and completeness of theircontributions.
In the didactic group (7 subjects)and socratic group (7 subjects) the tutor?s strategyfocused on disclosing partial solutions to the stu-dent in case of lack of progress and leading towardthe solution (hinting) respectively.
Given the tutor-ing strategy the verbosity of the minimal feedbacktutors was limited, while in both other conditionsas well as in the other experiment, the subjects andthe tutors were unconstrained in terms of the lin-guistic realisation of their turns.
Table 1 shows theoverview of the size of the corpora in terms of thenumber of turns.Corpus-I Corpus-IIno.
subjects 22 37no.
turns 775 1917no.
student turns 332 937no.
tutor turns 443 980Table 1: Overview of the corporaMethodology In developing the taxonomy wepursued the following iterative methodology:First, in order to build the initial taxonomy, weanalysed 18 dialogues from Corpus-I containing299 utterances (the development set).
The purposeof this analysis was to (i) verify the general suit-ability of the DAMSL scheme in the tutoring do-main,2(ii) identify features of dialogues moves rel-evant in tutoring that were not present in the origi-nal taxonomy (see the discussion in Section 4), (iii)identify an initial set of task-level moves.
We de-scriptively defined the move types and wrote draftannotation guidelines.Second, we applied the initial taxonomy to 4 di-alogues (108 utterances) taken from the two cor-pora in an annotation task performed indepen-dently by the authors of this paper (a preliminarytest set), after which we extended the taxonomyand refined the existing category definitions.
Fi-nally, we randomly3selected an 64-utterance sub-set taken from both corpora (validation set) to testthe coverage of the final taxonomy.3 A Dialogue Move TaxonomyOur goal in the analysis of the development setand preliminary test set of the corpus was to deter-mine a categorisation of the actions that can be per-formed by students and tutors in tutorial dialogues.The taxonomy which we have created from thiscategorisation contains the dialogue moves whichrealise these actions.
Now the utterances per-formed by students and tutors realise actions whichmay or may not address or have an effect on thecurrent task.
We thus speak of the task-level func-tion of an utterance in addition to a general di-alogue level function which all utterances have.Task-level vs. general dialogue level function istherefore the basic split in our taxonomy.2We expected this to be suitable because DAMSL is a tax-onomy with general applicability.3We avoided dialogues in which the student?s utterancescontained formulas only.74The full definition of the taxonomy is presentedin Table 2.
For each dialogue move we give a shortexplanation of what function it is intended to cap-ture as well as a short example.
In the followingsections we discuss some of our design decisions.3.1 The Forward and Backward DimensionsAt the general dialogue level we follow the DAMSLtaxonomy and categorise the functions of utter-ances according to their relationship with the pre-vious dialogue and their effect on the dialogue tofollow.
For these functions we use a Forwarddimension and a Backward dimension, respec-tively.
In general, we try to accommodate theDAMSL categories in order to build as much aspossible on existing generally accepted work ondialogue moves.
The forward dimension capturesutterances which are either assertions, requests orcommands.
The backward dimension captures ut-terances which agree or disagree with previousutterances, address questions, signal the under-standing status of previous utterances, or standin some information relation to previous utter-ances.
The main differences between DAMSL andour categorisation within these two dimensions arethe following: (i) we combine DAMSL?s Assertand Re-assert in a single category Assert whichmay be optionally marked as repeating informa-tion, (ii) we combine DAMSL?s Action-directiveand Info-request in a higher-level category of Re-quests, (iii) in place of DAMSL?s Answer, we in-troduce a more general Address category in thebackward dimension with subcategories Answer,Deflect, and Neutral, where Deflect accounts foravoiding answering and Neutral refers to those ut-terances which simply address a previous informa-tion request without answering it or a previous ac-tion directive without acceding to it.
The remain-ing DAMSL categories were left unchanged; theyare also not presented in Table 2.3.2 The Task and Task Progress DimensionsAt the task level we have utterances which addressthe task at hand.
These can mean altering the stateof the task solution, for instance by performing astep in the solution, or talking about the task solu-tion without altering it, for instance making state-ments about previously performed steps.
We di-vide the task related actions in those which addressthe task directly and those which address the solu-tion construction process, and capture these in thetask and task progress dimensions respectively.The Task dimension contains most of the taskrelated dialogue moves.
We follow Tsovaltzi andKaragjosova (2004) by splitting the task dimen-sion into two subdivisions which relate to the par-allel tasks being carried out and the roles of thedialogue participants.
Since the roles of studentand tutor restrict what actions can be performedby the speakers, we split the task dimension intoactions which contribute to the solving task andthose which contribute to the teaching task.
Ac-tions in the solving task are typically performedby the student, actions in the teaching task are typ-ically performed by the tutor and are pedagogicallymotivated.
This is important for example to differ-entiate between requests for task level information?
requests coming from the student are of an in-formation seeking nature, those that come from thetutor contribute to diagnostic or pedagogical goals.Within the solving task, changes or additions tothe solution are captured by Solution-step, whichmay be a new step or an extension of an exist-ing step, and Solution-strategy.
Solution-strategyis divided into stating a strategy which will be fol-lowed and stating a solution step which will be per-formed in the future.
The difference between theseis that the statement of a future step refers to a sin-gle step in the solution which the student is com-mitting to perform, whereas a strategy is a moreabstract concept.
A strategy is more like a solutionapproach which may consist of a number of steps,however which actual steps are to be performed isleft open.
In the domain of mathematical theoremproving a strategy may refer to a particular provingtechnique, for instance a proof by induction or bycontradiction, which may be realised by an utter-ance such as ?I will now do a proof by induction?.Exactly what constitutes a step and a strategy is amatter of how the domain is modelled.Request-assistance covers actions which ask forhelp with the task.
Within the teaching task,Solution-step-evaluation refers to utterances thatconvey the correctness or otherwise of steps.
Do-main relevant requests ask for domain related in-formation such as definitions.
Hint covers directhints about how to continue the task, for instanceby giving away a concept which should be used bythe student.
The hint category will need to covermany different kinds of actions depending on thetutorial strategy which tutors follow ?
we havenot subdivided this category and refer to Tsovaltziet al (2004) where this is further elaborated.75The Task Progress dimension equates in part tothe task management dimension in DAMSL.
Herethe dialogue moves related to the current task arethose which start, finish, restart or abandon it.
Thestudent can indicate the status of the solution con-struction process to be on-track or finished or sig-nal that he is lost.In summary, we have prepared our taxonomy ofdialogue moves for tutoring by adding a Task andTask Progress dimensions to the original DAMSLtaxonomy.
We have tried to keep as close to theDAMSL specification as possible with regard to thegeneral dialogue level function of dialogue moves,while at the same time adapting it to capture thephenomena of tutorial dialogue.
Although somemoves will typically by performed by either thestudent or the tutor (for example, only the tutorwill realistically give hints) we do not introduceany constraints which restrict this.4 Validating the TaxonomyWe used the taxonomy to perform a small-scaleannotation experiment on a validation set takenfrom the two corpora introduced in Section 2.
Thedata had previously been segmented into utter-ances.
The goal of this experiment was to seewhether our categorisation can be reliably appliedto data and to validate the coverage of the taxon-omy.
The annotation was carried out by two an-notators (the authors of this paper), following thedefinitions of the dialogue moves informally pre-sented above.
We did not consider the categoryinformation-relation because no definition is givenby the original DAMSL taxonomy, however we willreturn to the question of information relation laterin the discussion.Results Inter-annotator agreement was calcu-lated using Cohen?s kappa (Cohen, 1960) and theresults of the experiment are given in the followingtable.Dimension ?
valueForward 0.87Backward 0.47Task 0.75Task Progress 0.91These results can be considered very good for theForward and Task Progress dimensions, goodfor the Task dimension, and low for the Back-ward dimension.
Among the categories with thelowest agreement were Neutral at 0.11 and Step-augmentation at 0.37.
In this preliminary evalua-tion our strategy was not to use an category ?other?for utterances which did not appear to belong toany existing category, but rather to try to fit the an-notation to the categories as they are.
We markedpossibly problematic utterances for further discus-sion.Example We give examples of two fully anno-tated dialogue excerpts in Figure 1.
The exam-ples illustrate some of the types of problematic ut-terances which the corpora contain.
For instanceboth utterances ?Really??
and ?Yes??
are ques-tions and could appear to be information requests,but in fact act more like prompts to continue, forwhich we had no category.
Similarly the functionsof the questions in sequence in the second exam-ple are difficult to abstract.
We have tagged theseas Neutral, since they discharge the obligationsintroduced by the questions before them, but thelink between consecutive interrogative utterancesis elusive.Discussion We will now briefly discuss the re-sults and findings of our annotation experimentand allude to some of the possible causes of thedifficulties we encountered.The nature of tutorial dialogue is an underlyingfactor which makes it difficult to annotate cate-gories reliably.
Students tend to be very concise,which makes it difficult to determine how the stu-dent intended to relate the latest input to the pre-vious discourse.
This is reflected in our agreementscore for the backward dimension, which at 0.47is much lower than the other dimensions, as wellas in the agreement score of 0.37 for the Solution-step augmentation category, which is heavily de-pendent on previous context.
This result may evenpoint to a general characteristic of tutorial dialoguewhich makes computational modelling challeng-ing.
In particular the Neutral category resulted inconflicting annotations because it is often unclear,as in the examples shown above, whether Requestsare being answered or merely addressed.We have found that tutors typically perform ut-terances which contribute to many different goals?
for instance they can simultaneously reject pro-posed solution steps while giving hints on how tocontinue in the task.
The purpose of multidimen-sional dialogue move taxonomies is to handle thisvery multifunctionality, and while this is success-76Utterance Forward Backward TaskS: It holds that P (C ?
(A ?B)) ?
P (C) ?
.
.
.
assert solution-step:newT: Really?
info-request reject signal-incorrectS: no it?s not, answerS: the other way around assert solution-step:newT: that?s right at last assert accept signal-correctS: R ?
S := {(x,y)| ?
z(z ?
M ?
(x,z) ?
R ?
.
.
.
assert solution-step:newT: That?s right!
assert accept signal-correctS: now i want the inverse of that assert state-future-stepT: yes?
neutral hintS: (R ?
S)?1assert neutral solution-step:newT: = ?
info-request request-clar request-explanationS: How will the system answer?
info-request neutralT: What?s the question?
info-request neutralS: Can the system conclude (R ?
S)?1from R ?
S info-request neutralT: yes assert answerT: But try it yourself!
action-dir hintFigure 1: Annotated example from the corpusful to a point, conflicts in the annotation experi-ment have highlighted some dual functions withinthe same category.
For instance, utterances simul-taneously rejecting steps and requesting explana-tions of the errors in the steps were found a numberof times.We have found at least three categories that mayneed to be added to the current taxonomy to makeit cover tutorial dialogue more completely.
As dis-cussed above, a prompt type in the forward dimen-sion seems necessary.
In addition, we would fore-see a backward category which corrects a previ-ous utterance, a category in the solving task whichrequests the next step in the solution, and a cate-gory in the task progress dimension to check if thecurrent task is being restarted.
Similar categoriesare proposed by Tsovaltzi and Karagjosova (2004),and may be taken up.We can draw attention to the fact that there aremany interrelations between the dimensions whichare not captured by our presentation of the tax-onomy, and which may for instance be accountedfor by introducing constraints on label combina-tions.
We observe that many utterances stand insome information relation (a DAMSL category) tothe previous discourse, although we have not fur-ther specified what this relation might be.
Suchutterances are typically step augmentations, andcould be described for instance (in RST terms) aselaborations.Finally we have adopted Tsovaltzi andKaragjosova?s top-level structure, with Task as adimension.
However, we observe that it would beequally valid and more in keeping with the originalDAMSL categorisation of utterance functions tomake use of the existing Task sub-category ofthe Info-level dimension.
Similarly, our Taskprogress corresponds to Info-level?s sub-categoryTask management.
This is a straightforward struc-tural change which will not affect the annotationresults within these categories.5 Related WorkThe original DAMSL taxonomy was applied to andevaluated on the TRAINS corpus of problem solv-ing dialogues (Core and Allen, 1997).
In this an-notation a single label Task was used to mark alltask-related utterances.
In the Verbmobil project,a set of dialogue moves specific to negotiationwas proposed (Alexandersson et al, 1997).
Thesemoves capture only the task-specific functions ofthe utterances.
Similarly, the HCRC Map Taskcoding scheme concentrates on the task functionsof utterances, here specific to instruction-givingdialogues.
This classification is based on con-versational games approach to dialogue seman-tics (Houghton, 1986).The DIT++ taxonomy of dialogue acts (Bunt,2006) provides a more fine grained categorisationof general dialogue actions, however there is noone category or dimension dedicated to task spe-cific functions.
The category closest to (a subsetof) our Task dimension would be Activity-SpecificFunctions, which however is defined in terms ofperformative verbs or graphical actions.
In the tu-toring domain not all task-related actions are re-alised by performatives.There are a number of categorisations of dia-logue actions specific to tutoring and motivatedby the development of tutorial dialogue systems.Closely related to our work is a recent study by77Porayska-Pomsta et al (2008), who categorise taskrelated student actions and tutor feedback in a in-vestigation of student affect.
(Dzikovska et al,2006) propose a flat coding scheme for tutorial di-alogues on mathematics and relate it to a model ofcollaborative problem solving dialogue.
A simplertaxonomy is presented by Marineau et al (2000)which differs from our approach in that it was de-veloped with the goal of automatic classification inan intelligent tutoring system.
In a pedagogicallymotivated analysis of a corpus of tutorial dialogueson computer literacy, Graesser et al (1999) cate-gorise tutors?
actions in order to propose a modelof tutorial dialogue structure.6 Conclusions and Future WorkIn this paper we have presented a taxonomy of dia-logue moves which captures the actions performedin by students and tutors in a corpus of tutorial dia-logues.
We then detailed an annotation experimentwhich applied the taxonomy to a validation dataset and achieved good inter-annotator agreement.This preliminary study showed that we are able tocover the data well.
We did however find a num-ber of problematic phenomena in the data, such asthat of relating task level actions to the previousdiscourse, which are of particular importance forclassifying tutorial dialogue actions.In our future work we plan a larger scale anno-tation of a further test set of our corpus, which webelieve will confirm the tendencies found so far.We also intend to apply our taxonomy in an an-notation of tutorial dialogue dealing with differ-ent task domains, for example, tutorial dialoguecorpora in domains other than mathematics andgeneral problem-solving dialogues (e.g.
TRAINS).One of the goals of our work is to inform the de-velopment of models for tutorial dialogue, and sowith a view towards operationalisation of the di-alogue moves in our taxonomy, we will work onan axiomatic formalisation of the dialogue moves.This can form important input into developing aplan-based model for tutorial dialogue.ReferencesAlexandersson, Jan, Bianka Buschbeck-Wolf, TsutomuFujinami, Elisabeth Maier, Norbert Reithinger, BirteSchmitz, and Melanie Siegel.
1997.
Dialogue actsin verbmobil-2.
Technical report, DFKI.Allen, James and Mark Core.
1997.
Draft ofDAMSL: Dialogue act markup in several layers.DRI: Discourse Research Initiative, University ofPennsylvania.
http://www.cs.rochester.edu/research/cisd/resources/damsl/RevisedManual/.Austin, John L. 1955.
How to do things with Words.2005, second edition.
William James Lectures.Benzm?uller, Christoph, Armin Fiedler, Malte Gabsdil,Helmut Horacek, Ivana Kruijff-Korbayov?a, ManfredPinkal, J?org Siekmann, Dimitra Tsovaltzi, Bao QuocVo, and Magdalena Wolska.
2003.
A Wizard-of-Oz experiment for tutorial dialogues in mathemat-ics.
In Aleven, Vincent, Ulrich Hoppe, Judy Kay,Riichiro Mizoguchi, Helen Pain, Felisa Verdejo,and Kalina Yacef, editors, AIED2003 SupplementaryProceedings, volume VIII: Advanced Technologiesfor Mathematics Education, pages 471?481, Sydney,Australia.
School of Information Technologies, Uni-versity of Sydney.Benzm?uller, Christoph, Helmut Horacek, Ivana Kruijff-Korbayov?a, Henri Lesourd, Marvin Schiller, andMagdalena Wolska.
2006a.
DiaWozII ?
A Toolfor Wizard-of-Oz Experiments in Mathematics.
InProceedings of the 29th Annual German Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence (KI-06), Lecture Notes inComputer Science, number 4314, pages 159?173,Bremen, Germany.
Springer-Verlag.Benzm?uller, Christoph, Helmut Horacek, HenriLesourd, Ivana Kruijff-Korbayov?a, Marvin Schiller,and Magdalena Wolska.
2006b.
A corpus of tuto-rial dialogs on theorem proving; the influence of thepresentation of the study-material.
In Proceedingsof the 5th International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC-06), pages 1766?1769, Genoa, Italy.
ELDA.Bloom, B.
1984.
The 2 Sigma Problem: The Search forMethods of Group Instruction as Effective as One-to-One Tutoring.
Educational Researcher, 13(6):4?16.Bunt, Harry.
2000.
Dialogue pragmatics and contextspecification.
In Bunt, Harry and William Black,editors, Abduction, Belief and Context in Dialogue.Studies in Computational Pragmatics, volume 1,pages 81?150.
Benjamins.Bunt, Harry.
2006.
Dimensions in Dialogue Act An-notation.
In Proceedings of the 5th InternationalConference on Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC-06), pages 919?924, Genova, Italy.Cohen, Jacob.
1960.
A coefficient of agreementfor nominal scales.
Educational and PsychologicalMeasurement, 20(1):37?46.Core, Mark G. and James F. Allen.
1997.
Codingdialogues with the DAMSL annotation scheme.
InTraum, David, editor, Working Notes: AAAI FallSymposium on Communicative Action in Humansand Machines, pages 28?35.
AAAI, Menlo Park,CA, USA.78Dzikovska, Myroslava O., Charles B. Callaway,Matthew Stone, and Johanna D. Moore.
2006.
Un-derstanding student input for tutorial dialogue in pro-cedural domains.
In Schlangen, David and RaquelFernandez, editors, Proceedings of Brandial, the10th Workshop on the Semantics and Pragmatics ofDialogue, pages 10?17.Graesser, A. C., N. K. Person, and J. P. Magliano.1995.
Collaborative dialogue patterns in naturalisticone-on-one tutoring.
Applied Cognitive Psychology,9:495?522.Graesser, Arthur C., Katja Wiemer-Hastings, PeterWiemer-Hastings, and Roger Kreuz.
1999.
Auto-tutor: A simulation of a human tutor.
Cognitive Sys-tems Research, 1:35?51.Houghton, G. 1986.
The Production of Language inDialogue: A Computational Model.
Ph.D. thesis,University of Sussex.Litman, Diane J. and Scott Silliman.
2004.
ITSPOKE:An Intelligent Tutoring Spoken Dialogue System.In Proceedings of the Human Language Technol-ogy Conference: 4th Meeting of the North AmericanChapter of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics (HLT/NAACL) (Companion Proceedings),Boston, MA.Marineau, Johanna, Peter Wiemer-Hastings, DerekHarter, Brent Olde, Patrick Chipman, Ashish Kar-navat, Victoria Pomeroy, Sonya Rajan, and ArtGraesser.
2000.
Classification of speech acts in tu-torial dialogue.
In Proceedings of the Workshop onModeling Human Teaching Tactics and Strategies,ITS 2000, pages 65?71.Moore, Johanna.
1993.
What makes human explana-tions effective?
In Proceedings of the 15thMeet-ing of the Cognitive Science Society, pages 131?136,Hillsdale, NJ.Porayska-Pomsta, Ka?ska, Manolis Mavrikis, and He-len Pain.
2008.
Diagnosing and acting on studentaffect: the tutor?s perspective.
User Modeling andUser-Adapted Interaction, 18(1-2):125?173.Tsovaltzi, Dimitra and Elena Karagjosova.
2004.
AView on Dialogue Move Taxonomies for TutorialDialogues.
In Strube, Michael and Candy Sidner,editors, Proceedings of 5th SIGdial Workshop onDiscourse and Dialogue, pages 35?38, Cambridge,Massachusetts, USA.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Tsovaltzi, Dimitra, Armin Fiedler, and Helmut Ho-racek.
2004.
A multi-dimensional taxonomy for au-tomating hinting.
In Lester, James C., Rosa MariaVicari, and F?abio Paraguac?u, editors, IntelligentTutoring Systems ?
7th International Conference(ITS-04), number 3220 in LNCS, pages 772?781.Springer.Wolska, M., B. Q. Vo, D. Tsovaltzi, I. Kruijff-Korbayova, E. Karagjosova, H. Horacek, M. Gabs-dil, A. Fiedler, and C. Benzm?uller.
2004.
An an-notated corpus of tutorial dialogs on mathematicaltheorem proving.
In Proceedings of the Fourth In-ternational Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC-04), pages 1007?1010, Lisbon.Zinn, Claus.
2004.
Flexible dialogue managementin natural-language enhanced tutoring.
In Konvens2004 Workshop on Advanced Topics in ModelingNatural Language Dialog, pages 28?35, Vienna,Austria.79Label Explanation ExampleForward DimensionAssert Makes a claim about the world ?It holds that P ?Request Introduces an obligation on the hearer to answerAction-directive The obligation is that an action is performed ?Please show the following ?Info-request Request for a piece of information ?What is the definition of...?
?Open-option Suggestion of future action without obligation ?You could do a proof by induction?Backward DimensionAgreement Acceptance or rejection of plans or propositionsAccept Accepts a proposal ?Ok?Reject Rejects a proposal ?That?s incorrect?Address Responses to requestsAnswer Answers a previously posed info-request ?Yes?/?No?Deflect Shows inability or unwillingness to answer ?I can?t answer that?Neutral Addresses without answering or deflecting ?Why do you ask?
?Information relation Relation to an antecedent utteranceUnderstanding related Refers to problems understanding the speakerRequest clarification Asks to clarify a previous utterance ?What do you mean by X?
?Request rephrase Asks for a repeat/rephrase of an utterance ?Could you repeat that?
?Signal non-understanding Catch-all for signalling understanding problemsTask Dimension: Solving TaskSolution-step Refers to a step to the current solutionStep augmentation Adds to an existing step ?Concluded using Rule X?New Contributes a new step ?Rewrite formula A to B?Solution-strategy Refers to a solution strategyState strategy States a solution strategy which will be used ?I now do a case split?state future step State a step that will be executed later ?I will use DeMorgan2?Request assistance Ask for help with the taskRequest concept explanation Ask to explain a domain concept ?What does P mean?
?Request worked example Ask for an example to be presented ?Could you give me an example?
?Request solution strategy Ask what strategy to proceed with ?How should i do this task?
?Task Dimension: Teaching TaskSolution-step-evaluation References to evaluations of soln stepsSignal correct Indicates the step was correct ?Correct!
?Signal incorrect Indicates the step was incorrect ?Wrong!
?Hint Give a hint towards solving the taskGive-away-concept Give away a concept to help with the task ?You should use rule X?Request domain relevant Requests which refer to domain conceptsExplain Ask for an explanation to be given ?T: What is the defn of powerset?
?Identify Ask for a concept to be identified ?T: What does ?
denote?
?Define Ask for a definition ?What is the definition of...?
?Task ProgressStart task Starts the solution construction process ?Please prove P = Q?Finish task Indicates end of the solution construction process ?I?m done?, ?Q.E.D?Restart task Indicates solution being started again ?Start again?Give-up task Abandons the current solution attempt ?I give up?Task solution status References to solution progressOn-track Solution construction is on track ?Am i ok?
?, ?You?re doing fine?Lost Indicates speaker is lost in current solution ?I?m lost?Table 2: The full taxonomy.
Each type is given along with an explanation and an example80
