Coling 2008: Companion volume ?
Posters and Demonstrations, pages 91?94Manchester, August 2008Rank Distance as a Stylistic SimilarityMarius PopescuUniversity of BucharestDepartment of Computer ScienceAcademiei 14, Bucharest, Romaniampopescu@phobos.cs.unibuc.roLiviu P. DinuUniversity of BucharestDepartment of Computer ScienceAcademiei 14, Bucharest, Romanialdinu@funinf.cs.unibuc.roAbstractIn this paper we propose a new distancefunction (rank distance) designed to reflectstylistic similarity between texts.
To assessthe ability of this distance measure to cap-ture stylistic similarity between texts, wetested it in two different machine learningsettings: clustering and binary classifica-tion.1 IntroductionComputational stylistics investigates texts from thestandpoint of individual style (author identifica-tion) or functional style (genres, registers).
Be-cause in all computational stylistic studies / ap-proaches, a process of comparison of two or moretexts is involved, in a way or another, there wasalways a need for a distance function to measuresimilarity (more precisely dissimilarity) of textsfrom the stylistic point of view.
Such distancemeasures were proposed and used for example inauthorship identification (Labb?e and Labb?e, 2001;Burrows, 2002) or clustering texts by genre (Luy-ckx et al, 2006).In this paper we propose a new distance mea-sure designed to reflect stylistic similarity betweentexts.
As style markers we used the function wordfrequencies.
Function words are generally con-sidered good indicators of style because their useis very unlikely to be under the conscious con-trol of the author and because of their psycholog-ical and cognitive role (Chung and Pennebaker,2007).
Also function words prove to be very effec-tive in many author attribution studies.
The nov-c?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative CommonsAttribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unported li-cense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).Some rights reserved.elty of our approach resides in the way we useinformation given by the function word frequen-cies.
Given a fixed set of function words (usuallythe most frequent ones), a ranking of these func-tion words according to their frequencies is builtfor each text; the obtained ranked lists are subse-quently used to compute the distance between twotexts.
To calculate the distance between two rank-ings we used Rank distance (Dinu, 2003), an ordi-nal distance tightly related to the so-called Spear-man?s footrule (Diaconis and Graham, 1977).Usage of the ranking of function words in thecalculation of the distance instead of the actual val-ues of the frequencies may seem as a loss of infor-mation, but we consider that the process of rank-ing makes the distance measure more robust actingas a filter, eliminating the noise contained in thevalues of the frequencies.
The fact that a specificfunction word has the rank 2 (is the second mostfrequent word) in one text and has the rank 4 (isthe fourth most frequent word) in another text canbe more relevant than the fact that the respectiveword appears 349 times in the first text and only299 times in the second.To assess the ability of this distance function tocapture stylistic similarity between texts, we testedit in two different machine learning settings: clus-tering and binary classification.Compared with other machine learning and sta-tistical approaches, clustering was relatively rarelyused in stylistic investigations.
However, few re-searchers (Labb?e and Labb?e, 2001; Luyckx et al,2006) have recently proved that clustering can bea useful tool in computational stylistic studies.Apart of this, clustering is a very good test bed fora distance measure behavior.
We plugged our dis-tance function into a standard hierarchical cluster-ing algorithm and test it on a collection of 21 nine-91teenth century English books (Koppel et al, 2007).The results are very encouraging.
The family treesproduced grouped together texts according to theirauthor, genre, even gender.Also a distance measure can be used to solveclassification problems if it is coupled with properlearning algorithm.
One of the simplest such algo-rithms is nearest neighbor classification algorithm.We chose nearest neighbor algorithm because itsperformance is entirely based on the appropriate-ness to the data of the distance function on which itrelies.
In this way the accuracy of the classificationwill reflect the adequacy of the distance measure todata and domain on which the method was applied.We used the new distance function in conjunctionwith nearest neighbor classification algorithm andtested it on the well known case of authorship ofdisputed Federalist papers.
The method attributedall disputed papers to Madison, the result beingconsistent with that of Mosteller and Wallace.To check if the usage of ranks of function wordsis better suited for capturing stylistic differencesthan the usage of actual frequencies of the functionwords, we repeated the above experiments on clus-tering and binary classification with the standardeuclidean distance between the vectors of frequen-cies of the same function words that were used incomputing the rank distance.
The comparison is infavor of rank distance.2 Rank Distance and Its Use as a StylisticDistance Between TextsRank distance (Dinu, 2003) is an ordinal met-ric able to compare different rankings of a set ofobjects.
It is tightly related to the Spearman?sfootrule (Diaconis and Graham, 1977), and it hadalready been successfully used in computationallinguistics, in such problems as the similarity ofRomance languages (Dinu and Dinu, 2005).A ranking of a set of n objects can be repre-sented as a permutation of the integers 1, 2, .
.
.
, n,?
?
Sn.
?
(i) will represent the place (rank) of theobject i in the ranking.
The Rank distance in thiscase is simply the distance induced by L1norm:D(?1, ?2) =n?i=1|?1(i)?
?2(i)| (1)This is a distance between what is called full rank-ings.
However, in real situations, the problem oftying arises, when two or more objects claim thesame rank (are ranked equally).
For example, twoa been had its one that wasall but has may only the werealso by have more or their whatan can her must our then whenand do his my shall there whichany down if no should things whoare even in not so this willas every into now some to withat for is of such up wouldbe from it on than upon yourTable 1: Function words used in computing thedistanceor more function words can have the same fre-quency in a text and any ordering of them wouldbe arbitrary.The Rank distance allocates to tied objects anumber which is the average of the ranks the tiedobjects share.
For instance, if two objects claim therank 2, then they will share the ranks 2 and 3 andboth will receive the rank number (2+3)/2 = 2.5.In general, if k objects will claim the same rankand the first x ranks are already used by other ob-jects, then they will share the ranks x + 1, x +2, .
.
.
, x + k and all of them will receive as rankthe number:(x+1)+(x+2)+...+(x+k)k= x+k+12.
Inthis case, a ranking will be no longer a permutation(?
(i) can be a non integer value), but the formula(1) will remain a distance (Dinu, 2003).Rank distance can be used as a stylistic distancebetween texts in the following way:First a set of function word must be fixed.
Themost frequent function words may be selected orother criteria may be used for selection.
In all ourexperiments we used the set of 70 function wordsidentified by Mosteller and Wallace (Mosteller andWallace, 1964) as good candidates for author-attribution studies.
The set is given in Table 1.Once the set of function words is established,for each text a ranking of these function words iscomputed.
The ranking is done according to thefunction word frequencies in the text.
Rank 1 willbe assigned to the most frequent function word,rank 2 will be assigned to the second most frequentfunction word, and so on.
The ties are resolved aswe discussed above.
If some function words fromthe set don?t appear in the text, they will share thelast places (ranks) of the ranking.The distance between two texts will be the Rankdistance between the two rankings of the functionwords corresponding to the respective texts.3 Clustering ExperimentsOne good way to test the virtues of a distance mea-sure is to use it as a base for a hierarchical cluster-92Group Author BookAmerican Novelists Hawthorne Dr. Grimshawe?s SecretHouse of Seven GablesMelville RedburnMoby DickCooper The Last of the MohicansThe SpyWater WitchAmerican Essayists Thoreau WaldenA Week on ConcordEmerson Conduct Of LifeEnglish TraitsBritish Playwrights Shaw PygmalionMisallianceGetting MarriedWilde An Ideal HusbandWoman of No ImportanceBronte Sisters Anne Agnes GreyTenant Of Wildfell HallCharlotte The ProfessorJane EyreEmily Wuthering HeightsTable 2: The list of books used in the experimenting algorithm.
The family trees (dendogram) thusobtained can reveal a lot about the distance mea-sure behavior.In our experiments we used an agglomerative hi-erarchical clustering algorithm (Duda et al, 2001)with average linkage.In the first experiment we cluster a collectionof 21 nineteenth century English books written by10 different authors and spanning a variety of gen-res (Table 2).
The books were used by Koppel etal.
(Koppel et al, 2007) in their authorship verifi-cation experiments.The resulted dendogram is shown in Figure 1.As can be seen, the family tree produced is a verygood one, accurately reflecting the stylistic rela-tions between books.
The books were groupedin three big clusters (the first three branches ofthe tree) corresponding to the three genre: dramas(lower branch), essays (middle branch) and novels(upper branch).
Inside each branch the works werefirst clustered according to their author.
The onlyexceptions are the two essays of Emerson whichinstead of being first cluster together and after thatmerged in the cluster of essays, they were addedone by one to this cluster.
Apart of this, the familytree is perfect.
Even more, in the cluster of novelsone may distinguished two branches clearly sepa-rated that can correspond to the gender or national-ity of the authors: female English (lower part) andmale American (upper part).For comparison, the dendogram in Figure 2show the same books clustered with the same al-gorithm, but using the standard euclidean distanceinstead of the rank distance as measure of stylis-tic similarity.
The same set of function words asin the case of rank distance was used.
This timethough, each text was represented as a vector ofFigure 1: Dendogram of 21 nineteenth century En-glish books (Rank Distance)Figure 2: Dendogram of 21 nineteenth century En-glish books (Euclidean Distance)93relative frequencies of these function words in thetext.
The relative frequency of a particular func-tion word in a text is calculated as the number ofappearances of the respective function word in thetext divided by the length (in tokens) of the text.The distance between two texts is given by the eu-clidean distance between the corresponding vec-tors of relative frequencies of function words.
Inthe family tree obtained using euclidean distance,most of the books are still grouped according totheir author, but the distinct clusters correspondingto genre and gender disappeared and the novels ofMelville were separated: one being clustered withthe essays of Thoreau (Moby Dick) and the otherwith the novels of Hawthorne.4 Binary Classification ExperimentsWhen a distance measure is available, the mostnatural choice of a classification algorithm is thenearest neighbor algorithm (Duda et al, 2001).We tested the nearest neighbor classification al-gorithm combined with both rank distance and eu-clidean distance on the case of the 12 disputed fed-eralist papers (Mosteller and Wallace, 1964).
Inour experiments we followed the Mosteller andWallace setting, treating the problem as a binaryclassification problem.
Each one of the 12 dis-puted papers has to be classified as being writtenby Hamilton or Madison.
For training are used the51 papers written by Hamilton and the 14 paperswritten by Madison.Tested on disputed papers, the nearest neighborclassification algorithm combined with rank dis-tance attributed all the 12 papers to Madison.
Thismatches the results obtained by Mosteller and Wal-lace and is in agreement with today accepted thesisthat the disputed papers belong to Madison.
Whenthe nearest neighbor classification algorithm wascombined with euclidean distance only 11 paperswere attributed to Madison, the paper 56 was at-tributed to Hamilton.5 DiscussionIn this paper we have proposed a new distancemeasure based on the ranking of function words,designed to capture stylistic similarity betweentexts.
We have tested it in two different machinelearning settings: clustering and binary classifica-tion; we have compared its performance with thatof standard euclidean distance on vectors of fre-quencies of the function words.
Though testing onmore data is needed, the initial experiments shownthat the new distance measure is indeed a good in-dicator of stylistic similarity and better suited forcapturing stylistic differences between texts thanthe standard euclidean distance.In future work it would be useful to test this dis-tance measure on other data sets and especially inother machine learning paradigms like one-classclassification to solve authorship verification prob-lems (Koppel et al, 2007).Acknowledgments Research supported byMEdC-ANCS, PNII-Idei, project 228 and Univer-sity of Bucharest.ReferencesBurrows, John.
2002.
?delta?
: a measure of stylisticdifference and a guide to likely authorship.
Literaryand Linguistic Computing, 17(3):267?287.Chung, Cindy K. and James W. Pennebaker.
2007.
Thepsychological function of function words.
In Fiedler,K., editor, Social communication: Frontiers of socialpsychology, pages 343?359.
Psychology Press, NewYork.Diaconis, P. and R.L.
Graham.
1977.
Spearman?sfootrule as a measure of disarray.
Journal of theRoyal Statistical Society, Series B (Methodological),39(2):262?268.Dinu, Anca and Liviu Petrisor Dinu.
2005.
On the syl-labic similarities of romance languages.
In CICLing-2005, pages 785?788.Dinu, Liviu Petrisor.
2003.
On the classification andaggregation of hierarchies with different constitutiveelements.
Fundamenta Informaticae, 55(1):39?50.Duda, R. O., P. E. Hart, and D. G. Stork.
2001.
PatternClassification (2nd ed.).
Wiley-Interscience Publi-cation.Koppel, Moshe, Jonathan Schler, and ElishevaBonchek-Dokow.
2007.
Measuring differentiabil-ity: Unmasking pseudonymous authors.
Journal ofMachine Learning Research, 8:1261?1276.Labb?e, Cyril and Dominique Labb?e.
2001.
Inter-textual distance and authorship attribution corneilleand moliere.
Journal of Quantitative Linguistics,8(3):213?231.Luyckx, Kim, Walter Daelemans, and Edward Van-houtte.
2006.
Stylogenetics: Clustering-basedstylistic analysis of literary corpora.
In Proceedingsof LREC-2006, the fifth International Language Re-sources and Evaluation Conference, pages 30?35.Mosteller, Frederick and David L. Wallace.
1964.
In-ference and Disputed Authorship: The Federalist.Addison-Wesley, Massachusetts.94
