Coling 2008: Companion volume ?
Posters and Demonstrations, pages 119?122Manchester, August 2008Construction of an Infrastructure for Providing Userswith Suitable Language ResourcesHitomi Tohyama?
Shunsuke Kozawa?
Kiyotaka Uchimoto?Shigeki Matsubara?
and Hitoshi Isahara?
?Nagoya University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya, 464-8601, Japan{hitomi,kozawa,matubara}@el.itc.nagoya-u.ac.jp?National Institute of Information and Communications Technology3-5 Hikari-dai, Seika-cho, Soraku-gun, Kyoto, 619-0289, Japan{uchimioto,isahara}@nict.go.jpAbstractOur research organization has been con-structing a large scale database namedSHACHI by collecting detailed meta in-formation on language resources (LRs) inAsia and Western countries.
The metadatadatabase contains more than 2,000 com-piled LRs such as corpora, dictionaries,thesauruses and lexicons, forming a largescale metadata of LRs archive.
Its meta-data, an extended version of OLAC meta-data set conforming to Dublin Core, havebeen collected semi-automatically.
Thispaper explains the design and the structureof the metadata database, as well as the re-alization of the catalogue search tool.1 IntroductionThe construction of LRs such as corpora, dictio-naries, thesauruses, etc., has boomed for yearsthroughout the world in its aim of encouragingresearch and development in the main media ofspoken and written languages, and its importancehas also been widely recognized.
Of the organiza-tions willing to store and distribute LRs, there ex-ist some consortia fulfilling their function such asLDC1, ELRA2, CLARIN3, and OLAC4, in West-c?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative CommonsAttribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unported li-cense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).Some rights reserved.1LDC:Linguistic Data Consortium,http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/2ELRA: European LRs Association3CLARIN: Common Language Resources and Technolo-gies Infrastructure, http://www.ilsp.gr/clarin eng.html4OLAC: Open Language Archives Community,http://www.language-archives.org/ern countries, and GSK5 which does so mainly inJapan.
However, those released LRs are scarcelyconnected with each other because of the dif-ference between written and spoken language aswell as the difference between languages suchas Japanese, English, and Chinese (OLAC UserGuide, 2008).This situation makes it difficult for researchersand users to find LRs which are useful for their re-searches.
In the meantime, by connecting system-atically existing various LRs with Wrapper Pro-gram, the attempt to realize multilingual transla-tion services has already begun (Ishida et al 2008,Hayashi et al 2008).
Moreover, since language in-formation tags given to those LRs and their dataformats are multifarious, each LR is operated in-dividually.
As LR development generally entailsenormous cost, it is highly desirable that the re-search efficiency be enhanced by systematicallycombining those existing LRs altogether and ex-tending them, which will encourage an efficientdevelopment of unprecedented LRs.Our research organization has been constructinga large scale metadata database named SHACHI6by collecting detailed meta information on LRsin Western and Asian countries.
This researchproject aims to extensively collect metadata suchas tag sets, formats, and usage information aboutresearches on those LRs.
and recorded contents ofLRs existing at home and abroad and store themsystematically.
Meanwhile, we have already de-veloped a search system of LRs by the use of metainformation and are attempting the experiment ofwidely providing meta information on our stored5GSK: Gengo Shigen Kyokai; Language Resource Asso-ciation, http://www.gsk.or.jp/6SHACHI: Metadata Database of Language Resources-SHACHI, Shachi means ?orca?
in English.119Figure 1: A sample page of SHACHI catalogue (ex.
Euro WordNet)LRs to those from researchers to common users.This metadata database has been now open to thepublic in the Web and allows every Internet userto access it for the search and read information ofLRs at will.2 Purpose of Metadata DatabaseConstructionThe purpose of the construction of the database isthe following fivefold.1.
To store language resource metadata:SHACHI semi-manually collects detailedmetadata of language resources and con-structs their detailed catalogues.
Figure 1shows a sample page of a LR catalogue storedin SHACHI (ex.
Euro WordNet).
The cata-logue provides more detailed meta informa-tion than other LR consortia do.2.
To systematize language resource meta-data: Language resource ontology is tenta-tively constructed by classifying types of lan-guage resources (in this paper, it is called ?on-tology?).
Figure 2 shows an example of itsontology.
At the moment, it is under investi-gation what is the most useful and functionalontology for users by developing some on-tologies such as human-made ontology, semi-automatically produced ontology, and auto-matically produced ontology.3.
To make each language resource relatedto each other: The detailed metadata en-abled us to describe characteristics of eachlanguage resource and to expectably specifyrelationships among language resources.
Fig-ure 3 shows a part of the SHACHI searchscreen.
It shows language resources found asa search result, the references to which theselanguage resources conform as well as otherlanguage resources whose formats are com-mon to theirs.4.
To statistically investigate language re-sources: By statistically analyzing the meta-data, users are able to grasp what kinds of lan-guage resources exist in different part of theworld and to understand current tendencies oflanguage resources which have been availableto the public.5.
To promote the distribution of language re-sources: Since this metadata database en-ables users to easily gain access to languageresources in accordance with their needs,owing to fully equipped search functions,SHACHI will be able to support an effectiveuse and an efficient development of languageresources.Some 2,000 resources of metadata have alreadybeen collected in the database so far and they willbe enlarged by a further 3,000.
To that end, it is120Figure 2: Automatically produced ontologyindispensable for us to work in cooperation withlanguage resource consortia at home and abroadand to take the initiative in contributing to Asianlanguage resources.3 SHACHI Metadata Set3.1 Policy for Collecting MetadataThe LRs which our metadata database storesshould satisfy the following conditions:?
Those resources should be stored in a digitalformat.?
Those resources should be one of the follow-ing: corpus, dictionary, thesaurus, or lexicon.
(Numeric data are not considered to be thesubject of collection for SHACHI.)?
Those resources should be collected from En-glish websites and its data must be open to thepublic.?
Those resources should be created by re-search institutions, researchers, or businessorganizations.
(Developed tools such as facetsearch.
)LRs metadata database SHACHI covers metainformation provided by LR consortia such asELRA, LDC, and OLAC whose more detailedmetadata are fed into the database by semi-automatic means of importing.3.2 Extensions of Metadata ElementSince users sometimes search for LRs without aclear objective, it is necessary for language re-source providers to construct language resourceontology.
This database conforms to the OLACmetadata set which is based on 15 kinds of fun-damental elements of Dublin Core7 and consti-tutes an extended vision of OLAC with 19 newlyadded metadata elements which were judged tobe indispensable for describing characteristics ofLRs.
SHACHI provides usage information abouthow and in which situation language resource re-searchers utilized each language resource, whichis also important for users.
The usage informa-tion about LRs is automatically retrieved from aca-demic article databases (Kozawa et al 2008).
(See?Utilization?
in Figure1).3.3 Systematic Storage of LRsClear description of the relations among LRs canbe applied to the efficient development of LRsand search tools for common users of database.Figure 2 shows ontology generated through auto-matic means, based on language resource metadatastored in SHACHI.
We first surveyed the frequencyof possible values of metadata element choicesandgenerated the ontology by hierarchicalizing metaelements of our meta categories.
While ontologycan be constructed in various ways from differentstandpoints, our ontology is particularly designedfor users to enable to find them efficiently by fol-lowing the hierarchical classes of our ontology.4 Search Tools for ProvidingUsers-Oriented InformationFigure 3 shows a screen image of a search re-sult through SHACHI.
This section discusses threesearch functions provided in SHACHI.4.1 Three Types of Search FunctionsFor the purpose of facilitating users of this meta-data database to find their intended language re-source catalogues, SHACHI provides three searchfunctions:1.
Keyword search function: This tool is suit-able for users who have clear images to search7Dublin Core Metadata Initiative, http://dublincore.org/121Figure 3: Catalogue search toolfor specified LRs and a technical knowledgeof language processing.
It allows them to in-put keywords as they want and to search allwords stored in SHACHI metadata archive.2.
Facet search function: This tool is suitablefor users who have a vague idea of what kindof LR they want.
It is equipped with a choiceof 15 kinds of metadata elements selectedfrom the SHACHI metadata set.
The usersnarrow down the target LRs one by one inorder to find the intended one.
For example,with one click on ?age?, three choices such as?Childrenfs utterance?
?, ?Adultsf utterance?
?and ?Both are OK??
will be shown.3.
Ontology search function: This tool was de-veloped by adopting the idea acquired by sys-tematizing LRs registered in SHACHI.
Whenusing the ontology search function, users findthe intended LRs by following the vertical re-lationship of the ontology.
It was ascertainedthat ontology search function tool had themerit of enabling users to discover LRs thathave not been ever found by keyword searchand facet search functions.5 ConclusionIn this paper, we reported on the design ofSHACHI, a metadata database of LRs now be-ing developed, the expansion and construction ofmetadata for it, and an actualization of a searchfunction.
At present, it contains approximately2,000 pieces of meta information on LRs suchas corpora, dictionaries and thesauruses.
One ofSHACHIfs characteristic features is that with acollection of tag sets, format samples, and us-age information on LRs which is automatically re-trieved from scholarly papers given to LRs.
Fromnow on the SHACHI project is intended to promotecooperation among other LRs consortia abroad aswell as in Japan and to take the initiative in con-tributing to the development of LRs in Asia.ReferencesIshida,T., Nadamoto, A., Murakami,Y., Inaba, R. et al2008.
A Non-Profit Operation Model for the Lan-guage Grid, In proceedings of the 1st InternationalConference on Global Interoperability for languageResources, pp.114-121.Kozawa, S., Tohyama, H., Uchimoto, K., Matsubara,S., and Isahara.
H. 2008.
Automatic Acquisition ofUsage Infor-mation for Language Resources, In pro-ceedings of the 6th edition of the Language Re-sources and Evaluation Conference.OLAC (Open Language Archives Communi-ty), 2008.Searching of OLAC Metadata: User Guide, http://www.language-archives.org/tools/search/searchDoc.htmlYoshihito Hayashi, Thierry Declerck, Paul Buitelaar,Monica Monachini.
2008.
Ontologies for a GlobalLanguage Infrastructure, In proceedings of the 1stInternational Conference on Global Interoperabilityfor language Resources, pp.105-112.122
