Coling 2008: Companion volume ?
Posters and Demonstrations, pages 67?70Manchester, August 2008Modelling Multilinguality in OntologiesElena Montiel-Ponsoda, Guadalupe Aguado de Cea,Asunci?n G?mez-P?rezOntology Engineering GroupUniversidad Polit?cnica de Madridemontiel@delicias.dia.fi.upm.es,{lupe,asun}@fi.upm.esWim PetersSheffield Natural LanguageProcessing GroupUniversity of Sheffieldw.peters@dcs.shef.ac.ukAbstractMultilinguality in ontologies has becomean impending need for institutionsworldwide with valuable linguistic re-sources in different natural languages.Since most ontologies are developed inone language, obtaining multilingual on-tologies implies to localize or adapt themto a concrete language and culture com-munity.
As the adaptation of the ontologyconceptualization demands considerableefforts, we propose to modify the ontol-ogy terminological layer, and provide amodel called Linguistic Information Re-pository (LIR) that associated to the on-tology meta-model allows terminologicallayer localization.1 IntroductionMultilinguality in ontologies is nowadays de-manded by institutions worldwide with a hugenumber of resources in different languages.
Oneof these institutions is the FAO 1 .
Within theNeOn project2, the FAO is currently leading acase study on fishery stocks in order to improvethe interoperability of its information systems.The FAO, as an international organization withfive official languages -English, French, Spanish,Arabic and Chinese- deals with heterogeneousand multilingual linguistic resources with differ-ent granularity levels.
This scenario is an illustra-tive example of the need for semantically orga-nizing great amounts of multilingual data.
Whenproviding ontologies with multilingual data, oneof the activities identified in the NeOn ontology?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative Commons Attri-bution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unportedlicense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).
Some rights reserved.1 http://www.fao.org/2 http://www.neon-project.org/network development process is the OntologyLocalization Activity, that consists in adaptingan ontology to a concrete language and culturecommunity, as defined in (Su?rez-Figueroa et al,2007).
In particular, our aim is to obtain multi-lingual ontologies by localizing its terminologi-cal layer (terms or labels that name ontologyclasses), rather than modifying its conceptualiza-tion.
Thus, we propose to link ontologies with alinguistic model, called LIR, whose main featureis that it is holistic in the sense that it (1) pro-vides a complete and complementary amount oflinguistic data that allows localization of ontol-ogy concepts to a specific linguistic and culturaluniverse, and, (2) provides a unified access toaggregated multilingual data.
The model we pre-sent in this paper is an enhanced version of theone introduced in (Peters et al, 2007).2 Related workThe most widespread modality for introducingmultilingual data in ontology meta-models con-sists in using some ontology properties(rdfs:label and rdfs:comment3)that definelabels and descriptions in natural language ofontology classes.
In this system, information isembedded in the ontology.
In a similar way, theSimple Knowledge Organization System(SKOS4) data model for semantically structuringthesauri, taxonomies, etc., permits the labellingof ontology classes with multilingual strings, andeven the establishment of some relations betweenlabels (preferred label against the alternativeone).
In any case, however, both modelling mo-dalities restrict the amount of linguistic data thatcan be included in the ontology, and assume fullsynonym relations among the multilingual labelsassociated to one and the same concept.A further multilingual model is one adopted bythe general purpose lexicon EuroWordNet 53 www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/4 http://www.w3.org/2004/02/skos/specs5 http://www.illc.uva.nl/EuroWordNet/67(EWN).
EWN consists of monolingual ontolo-gies, each one reflecting the linguistic and cul-tural specificities of a certain language, linked toeach other through an interlingual set of commonconcepts that allows building equivalencesamong ontologies.
Although concept equiva-lences among localized ontologies are reliableand reflect cultural differences, the quantity oflinguistic information is also limited to labels anddefinitions attached to concepts.Finally, we come to the upward trend in recentresearch for providing ontologies with linguisticdata, which is the association of the ontologymeta-model to a linguistic model keeping bothseparate.
The model for representing and orga-nizing the linguistic information can be a database (as in GENOMA-KB6 or OncoTerm7), or anontology (as in the case of LingInfo (Buitelaar etal., 2006) or LexOnto (Cimiano et al 2007)).The main advantage of this modeling modality isthat it allows the inclusion of as much linguisticinformation as wished, as well as the possibilityof establishing relations among linguistic ele-ments.
Thus, conceptual information is greatlyenriched with linguistic data.
Additionally, thesesystems are considered domain independent, andcan be linked to any domain ontology.The differentiating aspect among the men-tioned systems is determined by the kind of lin-guistic classes that make up each model.
De-pending on the linguistic needs of the end user,some models will be more suitable than others.LingInfo or LexOnto can offer not only multilin-gual strings to classes and properties of the on-tology, but also a deeper morphosyntactic de-composition of linguistic elements, in the case ofLingInfo, or a greater focus on syntactic struc-tures by means of subcategorization frames, inLexOnto.
Our LIR model, however, is more inthe line of GENOMA-KB or OncoTerm, in thesense that they follow localization or transla-tional approaches.
The main objective of the LIRis to localize a certain ontology category to thelinguistic and cultural universe of a certain natu-ral language and to capture translation specifici-ties among languages.
Morphosyntactic informa-tion is left in the background, although interop-erability with ISO standards for representing thatsort of information is foreseen.
Contrary to GE-NOMA-KB or OncoTerm, the LIR is representedas an ontology and will be provided with thenecessary infrastructure to access external re-6 http://genoma.iula.upf.edu:8080/genoma7 http://www.ugr.es/~oncoterm/alpha-index.htmlsources for obtaining linguistic data and main-taining links to supplier resources (cf.
5).2.1 Interoperability with existing standardsLexical knowledge is expressed in various waysin terminological and linguistic resources.
Thereis a wealth of proposals for enhancing the inter-operability of lexical knowledge by encoding itfollowing standard models.
As the most impor-tant initiatives we take into account two ISO (In-ternational Organization for Standardization 8 )standards: The Terminological Markup Frame-work (TMF9) (and the associated TermBase eX-change format; TBX10), which captures the un-derlying structure and representation of comput-erized terminologies, and the Lexical MarkupFramework (LMF) (Francopoulo et al, 2006), anabstract meta-model that provides a common,standardized framework for the construction ofcomputational lexicons.The LIR model adopts a number of data cate-gories from these standards in order to guaranteeinteroperability with them.
For instance, the no-tion of lexical entry or lexeme, in itself a wellknown central linguistic notion of a unit of formand meaning, has been taken from LMF, whereasthe attribute term type, which covers representa-tional aspects such as full forms versus abbrevia-tions,  has been taken from TMF.3 Linguistic Information RepositoryAs shown in Figure 1, the linguistic informationcaptured in the LIR is organized around theLexicalEntry class.
A lexical entry is a unit ofform and meaning in a certain language (Saloniet al, 1990).
Therefore, it is associated to theclasses Language, Lexicalization andSense.
A set of related lexicalizations or termvariants shares the same meaning within the spe-cific context of a certain cultural and linguisticuniverse.
E.g., Food and Agriculture Organiza-tion and FAO would be two lexicalizationslinked to the same sense.
Thanks to the expres-siveness of the hasVariant relation, it is possi-ble to say that the one is acronym of the other.The Language class at the LexicalEntrylevel allows launching searches in which justthose lexical entries related to one natural lan-guage are shown to the user, thus displaying theontology in the selected language.8 www.iso.org9 http://www.loria.fr/projets/TMF/10 http://www.lisa.org/standards/tbx/68Sense is considered a language-specific unitof intensional lexical semantic description(ibidem), which comes to fruition through theDefinition class expressed in natural lan-guage.
Therefore, Sense is an empty class real-ized by means of the Definition.
By keepingsenses in the linguistic model independent fromontology concepts, we allow capturing culturalspecificities that may slightly differ from theconcept expressed in the ontology.
Definitionhas a pointer to the linguistic resource it has beenobtained from.
In this way reliability and author-ity of definitions are guaranteed.Then, Lexicalization is related to itsSource or provenance, to a Note class and to aUsageContext class.
The Source class aimsagain at being a pointer to the resource where theinformation has been extracted from.
Note ishere linked to Lexicalization, but it could belinked to any other class in the model.
It allowsthe inclusion of supplemental information; e.g.,usage specificities of a certain lexicalizationwithin its language system.
By linking Note tothe Sense or Definition classes we couldmake explicit possible differences among sensesin different languages.
The UsageContext classprovides information about the behaviour of acertain lexicalization within the language systemit belongs to.
Finally, lexical semantic equiva-lences are established among lexical entrieswithin the same language (hasSynonym orhasAntonym), or across languages (hasTrans-lation).
Note that we use the latter label to es-tablish equivalences between lexicalizations indifferent languages, although it is assumed thatwords identified as translation equivalents arerarely identical in sense.
As Hirst (2004) stated,more usually they are merely cross-lingual near-synonyms, but this approach is adopted for thepractical reason of providing multilinguality.The LIR is linked to the OntologyElementclass of the OWL meta-model permitting in thisway the association of multilingual informationto any element of the ontology.
Finally, it is leftto say that the rationale underlying LIR is not todesign a lexicon for different natural languagesand then establish links to ontology concepts, butto associate multilingual linguistic knowledge tothe conceptual knowledge represented by theontology.
What the LIR does is to associate wordsenses ?as defined by Hirst (2004)- in differentlanguages to ontology concepts, although wordsenses and concepts can not be said to overlapsince they are tightly related to the particular vi-sion of a language and its culture, whereas ontol-ogy concepts try to capture objects of the realworld, and are defined and organized accordingto expert criteria agreed by consensus.4 Application of the LIR in NeOnThe LIR has been developed within the NeOnproject and is currently being implemented.
Inorder to check its suitability, it was evaluatedagainst the linguistic requirements of the usecases participating in this project (see Note 2):the Spanish pharmaceutical industry, and theFisheries Stock system of the FAO.
Both usecases are working in the development of ontolo-gies for organizing the information they have inseveral languages.
As a consequence, one of therequirements for the NeOn architecture was tosupport multilingual ontologies.As already introduced, the LIR not only pro-vides multilingual information to any ontologyelement, but it also enables unified access to ag-gregated multilingual data, previously scatteredin heterogeneous resources.
In that way, it inte-grates the necessary linguistic information fromuse case resources and offers a complete andcomplementary amount of linguistic data.Regarding the FAO use case, the LIR wasevaluated against the recent developed model forthe AGROVOC thesaurus, the AGROVOC Con-cept Server (Liang et al, 2008).
This is a con-cept-based multilingual repository, which, com-pared to a traditional Knowledge OrganizationSystem, allows the representation of more se-mantics such as specific relationships betweenconcepts and relationships between multilinguallexicalizations.
It serves as a pool of agriculturalconcepts and is a starting point in the develop-ment of domain ontologies.
The adequacy of theLIR model was positively evaluated against thelinguistic requirements of the Concept Server interms of flexible association of language specificlexicalizations with agricultural domain con-cepts, and compatibility with TBX.5 Conclusions and future researchIn this contribution we have raised the impendingneed of international organizations dealing withmultilingual information for representing multi-linguality in ontologies.
In order to obtain multi-lingual ontologies, we have proposed the associa-tion of the ontology meta-model to a linguistic69Figure 1.
LIR model.model, the LIR.
The LIR has proven to be a ho-listic linguistic information repository with thefollowing benefits:?
Provision of a complete and complementaryset of linguistic elements in each language forlocalizing ontology elements?
Homogeneous access to linguistic informationdistributed in heterogeneous resources with dif-ferent granularity?
Establishment of relations between linguisticelements, and solution to conceptualization mis-matches among different culturesBesides, within NeOn there is a current researchregarding the integration of the LIR with the La-belTranslator tool (Espinoza et al, 2007), thatallows: (1) quick access to external multilingualresources, (2) an automatic translation of the on-tology terminological layer, (3) an automaticstorage of the resulting multilingual informationin the LIR, and (4) convenient editing possibili-ties for users in distributed environments.Acknowlegements.
This research was supportedby the NeOn project (FP6-027595)ReferencesBuitelaar, P., M. Sintek, M. Kiesel.
2006.
A Multi-lingual/Multimedia Lexicon Model for Ontologies.In Proc.
of  ESWC, Budva, Montenegro.Cimiano, P., P. Haase, M. Herold, M. Mantel, P. Bui-telaar.
2007.
LexOnto: A Model for Ontology Lexi-cons for Ontology-based NLP.
Proc.
of OntoLex.Espinoza, M., A. G?mez-P?rez, and E. Mena.
2008.Enriching an Ontology with Multilingual Informa-tion.
Proc.
of ESWC, Tenerife, Spain.Francopoulo, G, M. George, N. Calzolari, M.Monachini, N. Bel, M. Pet, C. Soria.
2006.
LexicalMarkup Framework (LMF).
Proc.
of LREC.Hirst, G. 2004.
Ontology and the Lexicon.
In S. Staab,and R. Studer (eds.)
Handbook on Ontologies andInformation Systems.
Springer, Berlin.Liang, A.C., B. Lauser, M. Sini, J. Keizer, S. Katz.2008.
From AGROVOC to the Agricultural Ontol-ogy Service/Concept Server.
An OWL model formanaging ontologies in the agricultural domain.
InProc.
of the ?OWL: Experiences and Directions?Workshop, Mancherter, U.K.Peters, W., E. Montiel-Ponsoda, G. Aguado de Cea.2007.Localizing Ontologies in OWL.Proc.
OntoLexSaloni, Z., S. Szpakowicz, M. Swidzinski.
1990.
TheDesign of a Universal Basic Dictionary of Con-temporary Polish.
International Journal of Lexi-cography, vol.
3 no1.
Oxford University Press.Su?rez-Figueroa, M.C.
(coord.)
2007.
NeOn Devel-opment Process and Ontology Life Cycle.
NeOnProject D5.3.170
