Coling 2008: Companion volume ?
Posters and Demonstrations, pages 185?188Manchester, August 2008Semantic visualization and meaning computationFabienne VenantLoriaCampus ScientifiqueBP 23954506 Vandoeuvre-les-Nancyfabienne.venant@loria.frAbstractWe present here VISUSYN, a prototype wedeveloped in order to study meaning con-struction.
This software implements themodel of dynamic construction of meaningproposed by Victorri and Fuchs (1996).
Itallows a semantic visualization that can beused to compute the meaning of a lexicalunit in a given context1 IntroductionMeaning construction ?
how words take meaningin a sentence or in a text ?i s an important issue forcomputational linguistics.
The major problem wehave to deal with is that each word can have a lotof different meanings, depending on context.
Thisphenomenon ?
called polysemy ?
is constitutive oflanguage, and is the basis of its richness.
Howeverit is quite difficult to formalize.
In most models oflanguage, polysemy is considered as a kind of arte-fact.
In these models, polysemy amounts to verylittle: a choice in a list of pre-existing meanings.However the omnipresence of polysemy alwaysleads this kind of computation to combinatorial ex-plosions.
To avoid this problem, we want to give acentral place in meaning construction to polysemy:that is why we define our model within the frame-work of continuous mathematics.
This model wasfirst proposed by Victorri and Fuchs (1996).
It isdeeply rooted in Gestalttheorie (Guillaume, 1979).Each linguistic unit is associated with a semanticspace, where its different meanings are organizedaccording to semantic proximity.
The other unitsof the utterance define a potential function, whichc?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative CommonsAttribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unported li-cense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).Some rights reserved.allows us to determinate the region of the seman-tic space corresponding to the meaning of the unitstudied within the utterance.Figure 1: ModelWe present here VISUSYN, the software we de-veloped in order to implement this model.
VIS-USYN is still a work in progress.
The working ver-sion was developed in Matlab.
A Java version willbe developed as soon as possible.2 Presentation of VISUSYNVISUSYN makes two kinds of operations, corre-sponding to the two componants of the model:it constructs semantics spaces and then com-putes meaning functions defined on these semanticspaces.The algorithm for building semantic spaces re-lies on the analysis of a graph of synonyms.
Theaim of the exploration is to reveal the structure ofthe lexicon modelled by the graph so an automaticsystem can reach the information it contains.
VIS-USYN can construct local spaces, representing thesemantic of a given unit, as well as global spaces,representing a lexical paradigm in its whole (forFrench adjectives, or adverbs for instance).
Local185spaces are used to compute meaning of the unitunder study when accompanied by a given wordin a sentence.
To compute the corresponding po-tential function, VISUSYN uses cooccurence datafrom large scale corpora.3 Small-world graphsIt has been discovered recently that most lexicalgraphs belong to the class of small-world graphs.This term denotes graphs where most nodes areneighbors of one another, but every node can bereached from other by a small number of hopsor steps.
Small-world networks were defined byWatts and Strogatz (1998).
They noted that graphscould be classified according to their clustering co-efficient (C) and their characteristic path length(L).
Additionally, a third property can be associ-ated with small-world networks even though it isnot required for that classification.
Specifically,if a small-world network has a degree-distributionwhich can be fitted with a power law distribution,it is taken as a sign that the network is small-world.
These networks are known as scale-freenetworks.
Ravasz and Barab?asi (2003) showed thata high clustering coefficient with scale free topol-ogy determines an original combination of modu-larity and hierarchical organization.
It is not a sim-ply pyramidal organization.
The structure is madeof groups of nodes, with small clusters at the bot-tom and very large groups at the top.
Moreover,groups of nodes may overlap at any level.
Thisself-similar nesting of different groups or moduleinto each other forces a strict fine structure on realnetworks (Ravasz and Barab?asi, 2003).4 Building semantic spacesThe algorithm will be here illustraded on theFrench adjective lexicon.
The graph under study,called Synadj, is a graph of synonymy with 3,699vertices and 22,568 links.
We verified the small-word structure of this graph (C, L and degree dis-tribution).
This small-world structure led us touse the cliques1of the graph as a tool for build-ing the semantic space.
A clique in a graph is amaximal set of pairwise adjacent vertices, or ?
inother words ?
an induced subgraph which is a max-imal complete graph.
In the present case, a cliqueis made of adjectives which are all synonyms in1Following the idea first proposed by Ploux and Vic-torri (1998)a one to one relationship.
By virtue of the defi-nition, small-world networks will inevitably havehigh representation of cliques, and subgraphs thatare a few edges shy of being cliques, i.e.
small-world networks will have sub-networks that arecharacterized by the presence of connections be-tween almost any two nodes within them.
Thisfollows from the requirement of a high cluster co-efficient.
We can consider as a first approxima-tion that the cliques define very precise meaningsthat can be considered as the intersection of themeanings of all the units belonging to the clique.We thus define the semantic space as the euclidianspace generated by the vertices of the graph (theadjectives, here).
Each clique of the graph is as-sociated with a point of this space, which coordi-nates depend on wich vertices belong to the clique.VISUSYN uses the chi-square distance to computethe distances between the cliques.
Then a princi-pal component analysis is applied to reduce the di-mensionality of the space.
In order to build a lo-cal semantic space (for example associated with agiven word), we select a sub-graph, made only bythe word under study and all its synonyms.
Thelocal space only contains the cliques of this sub-graph2.
Figure 2 shows a visualization of the se-mantic space associated with the French adjectivesec (dry, severe, brusque...).
It accounts for the sixmain meanings we can find in a dictionary.Figure 2: Local space associated with the Frenchadjectives secThe global semantic space is generated byall the vertices of Synadj.
It contains all the11,900 cliques of Synadj.
Figure 3 shows a partof the global space of French adjectives.
The2Ploux and Victorri (1998) first proposed the algo-rithm and built the lexical data.
Local semantic spacescan be consulted at http://elsap1.unicaen.fr/dicosyn.html orhttp://dico.isc.cnrs.fr/fr/index.html.186Figure 3: Global semantic space: French adjectives (2D)very centre of the space only contains intensivemeanings like authentique; certain; evident; in-contestable (authentic; certain; evident; incon-testable) or agr?eable; charmant; enivrant; ravis-sant; s?eduisant (agreeable; delightful; exciting;attractive).
These meanings are very generalmeanings and can apply to any nouns.There are now many semantic branches moreor less long growing out from the central core.These branches are very dense near the centre andthen go in all the directions becoming sparser andsparser.
They are homogenous from a semanticviewpoint.
Each branch only contains one sort ofadjectival meaning: relational, qualificative, or in-tensive.
VISUSYN had also been used to exploreother global lexicons, like French verbs (Figure 4?
(Gaume et al, 2006)) or French adverbs endingin -ment (more or less corresponding to english ad-verbs ending in -ly).5 Meaning ComputationLet?s go on with French adjectives.
An attributiveadjective is always linked to a noun.
It is this nounwhich mostly constrains the meaning of this adjec-tive, even if other units like the article can play arole.We show here how Visynsyn can be used to au-tomatically find which synonyms match better themeaning of an adjective (here the French adjec-tive sec) when used with a given noun.
In order todo this, VISUSYN associates a characteristic func-Figure 4: Global semantic space: French verbs(3D)tion with each synonym.
To compute the value ofthe function in a given point, it evaluates wetherthe synonym belongs to the corresponding cliqueor not.
The basins of this function represent themeaning zones of the semantic space in which thesynonymy between the word and the given syn-onym is relevant.To compute the meaning of sec when used witha given noun, VISUSYN associates a potentialfunction with the noun.
The value of this func-tion in each point depends on the frequencies ofcooccurrence of the noun with the adjectives of thecorresponding clique.
The basins of the functiondetermine the zone of the semantic space corre-sponding to the meaning of sec when used withthe associated noun.
Figure 6 shows the potential187function associated with fleur (flower).
In this casethe noun fleur forces sec to take a precise meaningin the zone ?lack of water?.Figure 5: Characteristic function associated withthe adjective brusqueFigure 6: Potential function associated with fleur(flower)The method of disambiguation consists in com-paring the function of a synonym to the functionof the noun under focus.
The more the functionsoverlap, the more you can replace sec with its syn-onym without changing the meaning of the syn-tagm.
This method has been used to computethe overlap rate for 20 nouns among the most fre-quently used with sec in a large corpus (Frantext,http://atilf.atilf.fr/frantext.htm).
The results auto-matically processed were compared with the hu-man answers on the same task.
The rate of successis 79% (Venant, 2006).This works for a fined grained disambiguation.VISUSYN can also deal with a more macrocopicpartition of the semanctic space.
Figure 2 showsa division of the semantic space of sec in 6 zones.VISUSYN can decide automatically which of thesesix zones correspond to the meaning of sec , whenused with a given noun.
The method is similar tothe previous: It now associates each zone (and notonly each synonym) with a characteristic function.This function is computed according to the cliquesbelonging to the zone.
For each noun, VISUSYNcompares its potential function with that of eachzone.
It thus computes an affinity rate betweeneach noun and each zone.
This method gives betterresults than the previous6 ConclusionAlthough VISUSYN is still a prototype, it seemsvery promising.
Our basic result is that the kindof visualization presented here displays the struc-ture of lexical graphs.
It also constitutes an ori-ginal tools to explore the structure of small-worldgraphs.
As the algorithm is independent of the na-ture of the relation modelized by the graph, it couldbe used to explore other small-world graphsIt offers interesting possibilities of using seman-tic informations in computational linguistics, espe-cially in the domain of automatic disambiguation.
(We also evaluated its results on verbs and noun).From a more theoretical point of view, it accountsfor the validity of the underlying model.
Of coursethis model has some limits and the work is still inprogress.
We have to develop the system.
How-ever, this work shows how continuous mathema-tics can be relevant for semantic modelization andencourages us in the challenge of using continuityfor corpus linguistics.ReferencesGaume, Bruno, Fabienne Venant, and Bernard Victorri.2006.
Hierarchy in lexical organisation of naturallanguages.
Hierarchy in Natural and social SciencesDenise Pumain (ed), pages 121?142.Guillaume, Gustave.
1979.
La psychologie de la forme.Flammarion.Ploux, Sabine and Victorri Bernard.
1998.
Construc-tion d?espaces s?emantiques ?a l?aide de dictionnairesde synonymes.
Traitement automatique des langues,39:161?182.Ravasz, Erzs?ebet and Albert L?aszl?o Barab?asi.
2003.Hierarchical organization in complex networks.Physical Review, E 67:026112.Venant, Fabienne.
2006.
A geometric approach tograph exploration.
In Fourth Workshop in Informa-tion and Human Language Technology (TIL?2006).Victorri, Bernard and Catherine Fuchs.
1996.La polys?emie, construction dynamique du sens.Herm`es.Watts, Duncan .J.
and Steven H. Strogatz.
1998.
Col-lective dynamics of small-world networks.
Nature,393:440?442.188
