Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2008), pages 289?296Manchester, August 2008An Algorithm for Adverbial Aspect ShiftSabine Gr?underDepartment of Computer Science, University of LeipzigJohannisgasse 26, 04103 Leipzig, Germanygruender@uni-leipzig.deAbstractThe paper offers a new type of approachto the semantic phenomenon of adverbialaspect shift within the framework of finite-state temporal semantics.
The heart of theproposal is a supervaluational concept ofunderspecification, and the idea of treat-ing the meanings of temporal prepositionsas dynamic presuppositions.
The simpleshifting algorithm used in the present ap-proach derives the correct set of possiblereadings on the basis of lexical semanticinput only, and, furthermore, may claimcognitive plausibility.1 IntroductionThe referents of temporally determined sentencesare usually talked of as situations.
The traditionalontological classification schema (Vendler, 1957)divides up the respective situational types into atleast four abstract subclasses: states, activities, ac-complishments and achievements.
This aspectualtaxonomy takes into account the internal temporalstructure of the situations, and is based on a smallnumber of features, such as: telic, dynamic, dura-tive.Situations are referred to by verbal phrases.
Dif-ferences in truth conditions, presuppositions andentailments of the respective sentences, as well aseffects on temporal sequencing in discourse areplausibly built on the aforementioned structuraldifferences.
That the assumed ontological aspec-tual classification is reflected on linguistic level is(at least partly) borne out by a number of languagec?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative CommonsAttribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unported li-cense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).Some rights reserved.internal testing procedures, such as grammaticalityeffects in connection with imperative, progressive,pseudo cleft and adverbial constructions.The aspectual character of a verbal phrase is notsolely fixed on the basis of verbal lexical informa-tion but can change during the process of semanticcomposition under the influence of nominal argu-ments and prepositional phrases, tense and aspec-tual markers, aspectual auxiliaries, or temporal ad-verbials.
Accordingly, the aim of a theory of as-pect is to determine the aspectual characteristicsof complex verbal phrases on the basis of semanticinformation associated with certain of its parts.In the last thirty years, considerable progresshas been made in formally describing the aspec-tual contribution of nominal and prepositional ar-guments.
However as far as the aspectual behav-ior of temporal adverbials is concerned, some puz-zling sets of data still await proper explanation andappropriate formalization.
The observation thatproblems arise right at that point gets particularlyworrying given that the very same types of ex-amples are standardly used as linguistic test casesto differentiate telic from atelic verbal phrases.Therefore, if we could find significant problemswith the theory just here, the whole idea of a lan-guage internal criterion for the division of verbalexpressions according to the aspectual situationalschema would suddenly become vague and un-grounded.The troublesome examples under discussion testfor compatibility of a verbal phrase with ?for?
and?in?-adverbials.
According to observational facts- so the traditional story goes - atelic states andactivities admit modification by a ?for?-adverbial,but give rise to ungrammaticality when combinedwith an ?in?-adverbial.
For telic achievementsand accomplishments things are precisely the other289way around.
The data under (1) and (2) shortly re-peat this well-known pattern.
(1) be quiet for an hour / *in an hourswim for an hour / *in an hour(2) arrive *for an hour / in an hourbuild a tower *for an hour / in an hourHowever, after closer inspection, these claimedtest cases do not seem to be as simple and clear cutas one would like, given their fundamental theoret-ical status.
The marked phrases, far from being un-grammatical, quite naturally display several kindsof meanings.
The focus of the ?in?-temporal ad-verbial under (1) can be read as being shifted fromthe situation itself towards its pre-phase, which isto lead up to the swimming process or to the stateof being quiet only an hour later than the present.In cases where an implicit boundary for the activ-ity is given by context (e. g., a triathlon competi-tion) the process itself can be also modified by theadverbial.
For the telic examples in (2), an itera-tive interpretation appears to be available, with the?for?-adverbial giving the duration of the wholecomplex situation rather than just of one of the in-cluded basic events.
Another interpretational pos-sibility here is to let the adverbial fix the durationof the preparatory phase, i. e., when the change isunder development, which precedes the culmina-tion of the situation.
Finally, the ?for?-adverbial isalso able to modify the result state following theculmination of the event.These phenomena in connection with the appli-cation of temporal adverbials to situations that are- under the perspective of traditional aspectual the-ory - not suitable for them have proven to be noto-riously difficult to treat in every kind of availableframework.
At the same time, the observed casesdo not have the status of real exceptions, but ap-pear cross-linguistical and spread over the wholeverbal lexicon.
Therefore, no theory of aspect canbe seen as fully adequate as long as it is not able toaccount for this flexibility in adverbial semantics.The aim of this paper is to work out a semanticanalysis of the cases in question which allows toderive the correct set of possible readings in a sim-ple and fully compositional manner.
Additionally,the proposal will aim at explaining the underlyingsemantic mechanism in terms of a more generalcognitive principle.2 The State of the ArtBefore turning to my own proposal for an analy-sis of aspectual meaning shifts in connection withthe interpretation of temporal adverbial modifiers,let me briefly discuss the idea figuring prominentlyin virtually all recent approaches, e. g., (Pulman,1997), (deSwart, 1998).
I am going to arguethat by following this general line of thought toostrictly, linguistic research so far failed to answerthe question about the source of the semantic flex-ibility of temporal adverbials (compare (Gruender,2008)).
The claim to be made in this section isthat the problems one can point out come about in-evitably and for principle reasons.
And that theyshould be seen as the result of an attempt to take agood metaphor too literally.Moens and Steedman (1988) conceived tempo-ral adverbials as ?functions which ?coerce?
theirinputs to the appropriate type, by a loose [sic!
]analogy with type-coercion in programming lan-guages?.
Under this perspective, aspectual shift istriggered by a conflict between the aspectual typeof the situation to be modified and the aspectualconstraint set by the temporal preposition head-ing the modifier.1Coercion operators, then, arethought to adapt the verbal input on the level ofmodel-theoretical interpretation by mapping onesort of situation onto another.
The underlyingmodel is commonly supposed to include situationsas first-order objects of the four basic types pre-viously mentioned, i. e., states, activities, accom-plishments and achievements.A first problem is immediately evident with thisapproach.
Since the temporal prepositions con-strain the aspectual type of the situation only as faras telicity is concerned, the relation established bycoercion cannot be functional.
With there beingno types telic and atelic but just two more spec-ified primitive types for each case, which are ful-filling the respective aspectual requirement equallywell, application of coercion inevitably leaves onewith several possible outputs.
Since, on the otherhand, in examples of real type-coercion, as appliedin programming languages, the introduced relationis always functional, a first clear, formal difference1Accordingly, the approach is not going to treat examples(i. e. ?hiccup all day?)
where aspectual shifts appear to fol-low solely from conceptual background knowledge concern-ing default durations of certain sorts of events, rather than be-ing triggered by a formal semantic conflict in aspectual typerequirements.
Likewise, I will disregard the possibility ofgeneric interpretations.290between the operations in the two domains has tobe noted.
A simple mapping between two primi-tive situations cannot be what is formally going onin cases of meaning shifts triggered by temporaladverbials, as the relevant formal criterion is toogeneral as to effectively constrain the output type.This problem becomes even more serious whenwe take into account the variety of aspectual shiftsthat actually occur according to the previouslygiven examples.
There it becomes clear that even ifconfined to one of the assumed primitive ontolog-ical sorts, the output value of the operation wouldstill remain underspecified.
So, for instance, afterapplying a ?for?-adverbial to an accomplishment,the iterative and the result state interpretation countas stative alike.
According to the type-coercionparadigm, however, in order to remedy ungram-maticality just one such type-adapted output valuewould have been sufficient.
The fact of there beingthis exact number and kinds of readings thereforebecomes a miracle, which the theory is unable toexplain and formally account for.On the one hand, when the telicity/atelicity con-straint is associated with the temporal adverbialin the known way, it generally seems to be tooloose with respect to the observed transitions, atthe same time it appears to be too restrictive.
Inthe boundary reading, the adverbial is successfullyapplied to a situational concept carrying the wrongtelicity feature without any visible aspectual shiftsoccuring.
At this point the type-coercion paradigmobviously is as close as it could be to being led intocontradiction.How do these very general problems presentthemselves within the known theoretical ap-proaches?
In the course of semantic compositioncoercion operations get introduced as some kindof metavariables.
These variables are instantiatedby a variety of concrete operations which relatethe input situation to an output situation in all theways possible.
The answer to the decisive questionof which functions actually are the ones possiblehere, however, is just read off the data.
From the-ory alone nothing beyond the telicity/atelicity re-quirement for the output value would follow, andeven this prediction is not strictly borne out, as wasargued in the previous paragraph.
Therefore, thesolution has just been given by empirical obser-vation rather than derived through any theoreticalsystematization.
Here, semantic formalization hasbecome a mere record of the data without furtherexplanatory power.Furthermore, by having set theoretical focus onthe ontological level when implementing aspectualshifts, linguistic research has taken up a perspec-tive entirely extrinsic to language and the adaptivepowers of meanings themselves.
In result of fol-lowing the type-coercion metaphor, language com-prehension is seen as proceeding via an implicit se-ries of program clashes, only to be repaired by sim-ply not obeying to compositional rules for combin-ing lexical semantic information any longer.
How-ever, according to a linguistically inspired, repre-sentational view, the manipulations at work in caseof aspectual shifting would take place within therealm of Fregean sense, rather than that of refer-ence.
The denotation of a situational expressionso would constantly get re-computed, as semanticcomposition proceeds, via the systematic modifi-cation of its meaning.
By not only involving on-tological type information but also semantic infor-mation proper, such transition process should ef-fectively determine the denotation of the respectiveoutput situational concept in the end, and thereforedeliver the theoretical derivation of the aspectualshifting operations that we are after.Summarizing the result of this section, I claimthat the analogy between aspect shift as trig-gered by temporal adverbials and type-coercion asknown in the programming language domain is notas close as generally assumed, and surely does notrecommend itself for direct implementation.
Ap-plying the formal mechanism used in the latter casetoo strictly to the former, inevitably leads to the in-terrelated problems mentioned, and seems by nowto obstruct a deeper understanding of what is ac-tually going on when senses change and adapt oftheir own accord.3 The FrameworkIn this section, I will shortly introduce a decom-positional approach to event semantics within theframework of finite-state temporal semantics de-veloped by Fernando (2003), (2004).
The deci-sion to apply this kind of formalism in the presentcontext was motivated by the intuition that whatwas needed to appropriately handle aspectual se-mantic phenomena was the concept of a situationas a complex but logically coherent, dynamic unit.That means, if aspectual features are defined withrespect to some internal, temporal structure of asituation, and if aspectual transitions proceed via291shifting focus of an adverbial along the time linefrom one part of that structure to another, this verystructure must be represented by the formalism,and has to be made easily accessible by the for-mal operations.
Obviously, the traditional David-sonean event semantics, where events are seen asindivisible atoms, and modifiers as just indiffer-ently predicating over such atoms, is not a conve-nient formal tool in this respect.In Fernando?s approach a situational concept, ischaracterized as a regular language, accepted by afinite-state automata, that may amount to a finiteKripke model with partial valuations.
Each stringof such language is viewed as a temporal sequenceof observations or a comic stripe.
The symbols inthe alphabet of the language are the still-picturesor snapshots to be strung together in chronologi-cal order.
Given a finite set ?
of formulas, or flu-ents, a symbol consists of a consistent subset of?, which non-exhaustively enumerates what holdstrue at some single point in time.
Therefore, a sit-uation is represented not just as an atom, but all itsinternal states are taken into account as well.A suitable compositional device for stepwiseconstruction of complex situational concepts isavailable in form of a regular operation superposi-tion (&) over two languages (L and L?).
Superposi-tion performs componentwise alignment of stringsof equal length and is realized model-theoreticallyas conjunction.L & L?=?k?1{(?1?
?
?1) ... (?k?
?
?k)| ?1...?k?
L, ??1...
??k?
L?
}A simple example (by Fernando), deriving therepresentation for the phrase ?rain from dawnto dusk?, should make clear the general idea (stands for ?-as-a-symbol, boxes replacing braces).rain+& dawn+&+dusk =rain,dawnrain?rain,duskNegation of symbols is defined in De Morganstyle by:?
= ?
; ?
?1,...,?n= ?
?1+ ... + ?
?n(writing + for non-deterministic choice).Fernando?s central idea for a definition of aspec-tual features is to formally base it on the symbols ?and ?
that start and finish a given language, respec-tively.
This serves to enable a nice formal encodingof the idea of a situational type being initially or fi-nally bounded or unbounded.
If the condition ?
isimmediately switched after the first stage an initialboundary is marked; if ?
is preserved the conceptis initially unbounded.
In the same way ?
can beused to mark a final boundary.
Aspectual featuresthen just enumerate all the possibilities for a corre-sponding concept to be bounded or unbounded inthat sense.telic (L) = ??
(L)+iter (L) = ?
(L)+prog (L) = ??
(L)+reten (L) = ?
(L)+Notably, on this perspective, the four classicalaspectual classes are derivable as the set oflogically possible cross-combinations of the fouraspectual features as defined above.
The corre-sponding properties of being initially or finallybounded, are marked by using a short binary code,with the first digit referring to the beginning, thesecond to the ending, and 1 and 0 indicating thepresence or absence of a boundary, respectively.
Ifwe let a and o refer to the two boundary markingpropositions inside the symbols ?
and ?
we getthe abstract characterizations on the very right.state: reten, iter (0 0) a, o+activity: prog, iter (1 0) a, ?o ?a, o+achievem.
: reten, telic (0 1) a, ?o+?a, oaccompl.
: prog, telic (1 1) a, ?o ?a, ?o+?a, oThe following translations, which give formal-izations within the framework of two of the initialexamples, ?swim?
and ?build a tower?, may serveas a concrete illustration.2(3) ?
?x 6= ?
(swim(x)) ?x 6= ?
(swim(x))+(4) ?
?x ?
t (build(x)) ?x ?
t (build(x)), ?build(t)+build(t)4 The ProposalWithin the formalism introduced so far, the com-monly assumed constraint on the interpretabilityof temporal adverbials reads as follows (where Vrepresents a verbal phrase, and I an expressiondenoting a temporal interval):?
(V in I) = {?
(V) & ?
(I) if ?
(V) is telic; ?
otherwise}?
(V for I) = {?
(V) & ?
(I) if ?
(V) is iter; else ?
otherwise}.2For the sake of abbreviation, here and in all that followsobvious entailment relations are taken into account.
So, forinstance, ?a is suppressed in presence of o here.292The aim of this section is to improve on that by giv-ing room, within the semantic framework itself, forthose kinds of adapted interpretations that actuallyoccur, as shown by the initial examples.
The ap-proach will set the representational view (section2) at work here, as it makes use of the possibilityto introduce the concept of underspecification.The logical heart of the proposal to be madeis Supervaluation Theory, developed by vanFraassen (1969) as a formal tool for handling pre-supposition failure.
The more general theoreticalaim of van Fraassen was to account for the ?thirdpossibility?
beside the classical valuations Truthand False in a way that preserves as much as pos-sible from the classical framework.
So, notably,while the supervaluationist denies the metalogicalPrinciple of Bivalence, he still accepts the logicalLaw of Excluded Middle together with all otherclassical tautologies.
This decisive difference tothe several three-valued logical systems known isdue to the idea of using truth-value gaps ratherthan a proper third value.
Ordinary partial valua-tions are extended to supervaluations by consider-ing the possible completions of a given model, thatis the set of classical valuations such that all miss-ing values get filled up in one way or the other.Take metavariable M to stand for partial models,M?to range over all possible completions of M,and M* to be the supermodel of M, comprising Mtogether with all its M?.A supervaluation based on M is a func-tion that assigns Truth with respect toM* to a proposition ?
just in case ?
isclassically true in all M?, False just incase it is false in all M?, and # (gap) oth-erwise.That means, if a proposition ?
has received super-value # there are underlying, more precise modelssuch that ?
is true in some of them and false inothers.With this additional technical equipment avail-able, let me now turn back to the problem of giv-ing an appropriately flexible, but non-ambiguousformal characterization of the semantic contribu-tion of temporal adverbials.
The main task obvi-ously consists in offering a proper semantics forthe prepositions ?in?
and ?for?
that accords withthe overall aspectual semantic formalism ratherthan just stipulating ungrammaticality.
In order tokeep the idea of a language internal criterion forthe aspectual characteristics of a situation intactwhile allowing for the observed interpretationalflexibility, those semantic characterizations shouldeffectively constrain the basic applications of theadverbials in the way commonly assumed, but atthe same time allowing and triggering composi-tional adaptions of sense via meaning shifts.
Thealgorithm I am going to introduce is proceeding inthree steps, illustrated here firstly by means of atelic example, and afterwards an atelic one.
Thegeneral lead-in will be the idea of formally treat-ing aspectually sensitive temporal prepositions assome kind of dynamic, structural presuppositions.As the starting point, I assume the representa-tions of the meanings of the two temporal prepo-sitions ?in?
and ?for?
under (5) and (6).
Theseformalizations take into account the known pref-erences with respect to the aspectual type of thesituational concept to be modified by encoding theproperties telic and iter according to the formaldefinitions given in the previous section.
(5) ?
(in) = ?o+(6) ?
(for) = o+In the first, preparatory step of composition, theprepositions get combined via superposition withthe nominal phrase ?an hour?, as done below.
(7) ?
(for an hour) = o+& time(m)+time(n), hour(m,n)= time(m) o+o, time(n), hour(m,n)(8) ?
(in an hour) = ?o+& time(m)+time(n), hour(m,n)= ?o, time(m) ?o+time(n), hour(m,n)Now, the adverbials are ready for modifyingthe situational concepts, whose abstract aspectualcharacterizations are given once more in (9) and(10).3The explanation will proceed with respectto the telic example first.
(9) ?
(Viter) = a, ?o ?a, o+(10) ?
(Vtel) = a, ?o ?a, ?o+?a, oIn its first, obligatory phase, the algorithm com-bines the representation of the temporal adverbialwith the abstract characterization of the situationalconcept by means of superposition.
If the aspec-tual type of the situational concept agrees withthe structural condition set by the preposition, the3Here, an activity is chosen as the atelic example, an ac-complishment as the telic one.
For states and achievements,though, the respective procedures would work out in exactparallel.293incorporation of prepositional meaning does nothave any visible effect.
The semantic material justcombines normally via superposition, as can beseen in (11), and the algorithm finishes here.
(11) ?
(Vtelin an hour) =a, ?o, time(m) ?a, ?o+?a, o, time(n), hour(m,n)However, in case of an aspectual clash betweenpreposition and event description, combining theconcepts leads to a contradiction at some predeter-mined position inside the complex situational type,as happens in (12).
This formal accident can betraced back to the preposition and the situationaltype contributing different claims with respect tothe truth-value of the proposition o, encoding thetelicity feature.
(12) ?
(Vtel*for an hour) =a, ?o, time(m) ?a, ?o, o+?a, o, time(n), hour(m,n)As these are the cases where interesting aspec-tual shifts turn up, the real action starts here.
Inits second phase, the algorithm applies a repairingmechanism by assigning a truth-value gap (#) to theproposition that previously had received contradic-tory valuations.
The rationale behind this may bethought of as not passing judgement in the face ofequally probable but opposing evidences.
(13) ?
(Vtel #for an hour) =a, ?o, time(m) ?a, #o+?a, o, time(n), hour(m,n)The general formal rule applied here is right theone standardly assumed for other cases of presup-position failure.
That means, the meaning of a tem-poral preposition is thought of as some kind of dy-namic, structural presupposition with respect to thedevelopment of the truth value of a certain proposi-tion.
Its semantic contribution is empty in case theverbal concept it combines with shows the right in-ternal structure, but it causes the introduction of atruth-value gap at a particular position inside thesituational string whenever its structural constraintis not satisfied.
In the latter case, the result of thissemantic operation is a situational concept whichis underspecified with respect to the aspectual fea-ture telic (#telic).As stated above, lacking a truth-value in thesense of supervaluationism, consists in the capac-ity in principle to make precise in more than oneway.
That means, for the proposition o havingbeen marked # in a supermodel M*, there are un-derlying models in M?such that o is true in oneof them but false in the other.
This determina-tion of previously underspecified information in allpossible directions, by grounding the freshly in-troduced supervalue # in the underlying classicalmodels, is just what the algorithm is supposed todo in its third, last step.
Intuitively, instead of loos-ing any information previously received, the ideallanguage user is developing different hypotheticalinterpretations separately.
This might be taken as astrategy to save monotonicity of the interpretationprocess by allowing reciprocal adaptions betweenpreposition and situation.
The two obvious out-puts with respect to the telic example are spelledout below.
(14) ?1(Vtelfor an hour) =a, ?o, time(m) ?a, o+?a, o, time(n), hour(m,n)(15) ?2(Vtelfor an hour) =a, ?o, time(m) ?a, ?o+?a, o, time(n), hour(m,n)This reintroduction of truth-values after aforced gap gives rise to a specific set of newregular languages.
What situational concepts dothose rebuilt structures encode?
In (14) the resultstate description appears to have spread over theentire internal part of the expression.
Under thisperspective the preparatory phase got abstractedaway, and the event culminates immediately afterstart.
In consequence, the adverbial now getsinterpreted as indicating the duration of the resultstate of the situation.
Obviously, this is one ofthe readings we had found in connection withthe modification of telic situational concepts by?for?-adverbials at the very beginning.
Under (16)this point gets further illustrated with the help ofthe familiar example (?build a tower for an hour?).(16)?
?x ?
t (build(x)),time(m)?x ?
t (build(x)),build(t)+build(t),time(n), hour(m,n)In contrast, the second way to make precisethe aspectually underspecified concept in (13)leads up to the description under (15).
Here, thepreparatory phase is making up the whole innerpart of the regular expression.
Consequently, ap-plying the temporal adverbial gives the descriptionof an event that takes an hour to culminate.
Whatwe have here clearly amounts to the preparatoryphase reading of the ?for ?-adverbial.
Again, (17)offers concrete illustration.(17)?
?x ?
t (build(x)),time(m)?x ?
t (build(x)),?build(t)+build(t),time(n), hour(m,n)294Notice that the formal mechanism does in prin-cipal not serve to get rid of the factivity entailmentfor the result state here.
While this seems plausi-ble for examples like ?grow old for many years?, itis certainly not so for ?read a book for a few min-utes?.
I take this ambivalence as indicating thatthis question is not a matter of aspectual logicalform, causing ?hard?
semantic inferences, but thatit depends on background knowledge concerningdefault durations of certain kinds of events.
Withrespect to the above example, this would mean thatin order to eventually strip off the result state, asecond, pragmatic principle would have to get ap-plied to the intermediate, semantic output gainedhere.So far so good.
But what about the iterativereading we found as the third possibility whenlooking at this kind of example at the very begin-ning?
To get this interpretation derived, let us takeone out of the several different-sized strings en-coded by the regular expression in (13), which, forinstance, may look like this.
(18) ??
(Vtel #for an hour) =a, ?o,time(m)?a, #o ?a, #o ?a, #o ?a, #o?a, o,time(n), hour(m,n)Now, obviously, different classical valuationscan be chosen for different states, leading, for in-stance, to the pattern under (19).
(19) ?3(Vtel #for an hour) =a, ?o,time(m)?a, o ?a, ?o ?a, o ?a, ?o?a, o,time(n), hour(m,n)That means, preparatory phases freely alternatewith result states, thereby forming a situational de-scription which can only be interpreted as referringto a situation comprising several iterations of theoriginal event.
This complex situation as a wholebecomes the attaching point of the temporal infor-mation carried by the adverbial.
Under (20) thismove is spelled out with respect to the concreteexample.(20)??x?
t (build(x)),time(m)build(t)?x ?
t (build(x)),?build(t)build(t) ...?x ?
t (build(x)),?build(t)build(t),time(n), hour(m,n)After having derived all possible interpretationsof a ?for?-adverbial when applied to a telic con-cept, the task of accounting for adapted readingsof an ?in?-adverbial modifying an atelic situationaldescription is still at stake.
A preparatory phaseand a boundary reading is what we would wishthe semantic mechanism to deliver here.
The fol-lowing formulas are the result of trying out thethree steps of the shifting algorithm - superposi-tion, reparation, determination - for the atelic case.
(21) ?
(Viter*in an hour) =a, ?o, time(m) ?a, o, ?o+?a, o, time(n), hour(m,n)As before, in order to escape contradiction thealgorithm proceeds by underspecifying the criticaltelicity structural information.
The side effect ofthe truth-value gap spreading over from o to a inthe atelic example in (22) is due to the fact of theboth proposition generally being negation variantsof each other here (compare (3)).
(22) ?
(Viter #in an hour) =a, ?o, time(m) #a, #o+?a, o, time(n), hour(m,n)Then, fulfilling the third, determination stepwith respect to the above underspecified concept,leads to the following two regular languages.
(23) ?1(Viterin an hour) =a, ?o, time(m) a, ?o+?a, o, time(n), hour(m,n)(24) ?2(Viterin an hour) =a, ?o, time(m) ?a, o+?a, o, time(n), hour(m,n)In (23) the start of the phase of activity is post-poned to the very last symbol.
On that basis, thetemporal adverbial gets interpreted as specifyingthe duration of the respective pre-phase.
In (24),on the other hand, the activity phase of the situ-ation got spread over the entire real suffix of theregular expression.
Therefore, the adverbial addsinformation concerning the temporal boundariesof the whole situation.
So, both known interpre-tational possibilities can be accounted for by theproposed formalism.4Again, the concrete exam-ple (?swim in an hour?)
may ease understanding.(25)?
?x 6= ?
(swim(x)),time(m)?
?x 6= ?
(swim(x))+?x 6= ?
(swim(x)),time(n), hour(m,n)(26)?
?x 6= ?
(swim(x)),time(m)?x 6= ?
(swim(x))+?x 6= ?
(swim(x)),time(n), hour(m,n)The aim of the semantic interpretation processhas been achieved at this point.
It was to makeprovision for the set of possible readings found inthe cases under consideration in a fully composi-4The formally possible third variant, parallel to the iter-ative interpretation gained for the telic example, is not veryprominent here and usually not discussed in the literature.
Butthere are certainly special contexts in which this descriptionmay nevertheless apply (imagine some sort of interval train-ing session, for instance).
So, there is no over-generation here.295tional manner, i. e., only using lexical semantic en-tries and general rules for combining them.
Fur-ther methods will have to apply in order to filterout the best actual candidate with the help of morecontextual information and world knowledge.5 ConclusionThe aim of this paper was to show how the mean-ing potential of temporal adverbials can be for-mally accounted for, and to give room, within thecompositional semantic framework itself, for anefficient derivation and systematic explanation ofthe exact number and kinds of possible readings.According to the proposal made here, aspectualshifts consist in restructuring a situational conceptfrom inside rather than in simple mappings fromone atomic event onto another.
Aspectual transi-tions thus happen with respect to linguistic repre-sentations rather than ontological entities and aremade on a finer, subatomic semantic level.The heart of the proposal is the concept of as-pectual underspecification and the idea of formallytreating the meaning of temporal prepositions assome kind of dynamic, structural presuppositions.Thus, the whole process is triggered by some kindof type conflict, as traditionally assumed, but getsnow controlled by the introduction and consequentfilling in of a truth-value gap.
Literally, the mean-ing of a verbal phrase including an aspectual clashbetween temporal adverbial modifier and situa-tional concept to be modified is an aspectually un-derspecified situational concept.
The possible as-pectually shifted readings then appear as the dif-ferent ways of specifying it.As opposed to what is the case in traditional the-ories of aspect shift, those possible ways of spec-ifying are compositionally determined, i. e. byexclusive recurrence of semantic material alreadypresent in the enriched representation, and via ap-plication of the standardly assumed rule for casesof presupposition failure.
Therefore, the seman-tic process in question is analysed here as entirelylanguage internal.Another interesting feature of the proposed al-gorithm when compared to the traditional ap-proach seems to be that it is not the one-sidedcompliance of letting the verbal phrase possiblybe type-changed by the adverbial, but rather theidea of allowing reciprocal adaptations that finallyleaves us with the right set of predictions.
Hereby,monotonicity of the overall interpretation processis preserved.Last but not least, the procedure of systemati-cally introducing underspecification as some kindof claimed ignorance in the presence of conflictingevidence, and of subsequently trying out all possi-ble specifications separately, seems to be a plausi-ble hypothesis about the rational strategies we re-ally may use when adapting sense.Referencesde Swart, Henriette.
1998.
Aspectual Shift and Co-ercion.
Natural Language and Linguistic Theory,16:347?385.Fernando, Tim.
2003.
Finite-state descriptions for tem-poral semantics.
Computing Meaning, volume 3.Kluwer, Tilburg.Fernando, Tim.
2004.
A finite-state Approach toEvents in Natural Language Semantics.
Journal ofLogic and Computation, 14(1):79?92.Gr?under, Sabine.
2008.
Aspectual Shift asSupervaluation.
(to appear), Available un-der: http : //www.asv.informatik.uni ?leipzig.de/opencms/opencms/asv/de/Mitarbeiter/Sabine Gruender.htmlMoens, Marc and Steedman, Mark.
1988.
TemporalOntology and Temporal Reference.
ComputationalLinguistics, 14(2):15?28.Pulman, Stephen, G. 1997.
Aspectual Shift as TypeCoercion.
Transactions of the Philological Society,95(2):279?317.Vendler, Zeno.
1957.
Verbs and Times.
PhilosophicalReview, 66:143?160.van Fraassen, Bas.
1969.
Presuppositions, supervalua-tions and free logic.
in K. Lambert (ed) The LogicalWay of Doing Things, 67?91.
Yale University Press,New Haven.296
