Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2008), pages 761?768Manchester, August 2008Event Frame Extraction Based on a Gene Regulation CorpusYutaka Sasaki 1    Paul Thompson 1    Philip Cotter 1    John McNaught 1, 2Sophia Ananiadou1, 21 School of Computer Science, University of Manchester2  National Centre for Text MiningMIB, 131 Princess Street, Manchester, M1 7DN, United KingdomYutaka.Sasaki@manchester.ac.ukAbstractThis paper describes the supervised ac-quisition of semantic event frames  basedon a corpus of biomedical abstracts, inwhich the biological process of E. coligene regulation has been linguisticallyannotated by a group of biologists in theEC research project "BOOTStrep".
Generegulation is one of the rapidly advancingareas for which information extractioncould boost research.
Event frames are anessential linguistic resource for extractionof information from biological literature.This paper presents a specification forlinguistic-level annotation of gene regu-lation events, followed by novel methodsof automatic event frame extraction fromtext.
The event frame extraction per-formance has been evaluated with 10-fold cross validation.
The experimentalresults show that a precision of nearly50% and a recall of around 20% areachieved.
Since the goal of this paper isevent frame extraction, rather than eventinstance extraction, the issue of low re-call could be solved by applying themethods to a larger-scale corpus.1 IntroductionThis paper describes the automatic extraction oflinguistic event frames based on a corpus ofMEDLINE abstracts that has been annotatedwith gene regulation events by a group of do-?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative Commons Attri-bution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unportedlicense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).
Some rights reserved.main experts.
Annotation is centred on bothverbs and nominalised verbs that describe rele-vant events.
For each event, semantic argumentsthat occur within the same sentence are markedand labelled with semantic roles and named en-tity (NE) types.The focus of the paper is the extraction ofevent frames on the basis of the annotated corpususing machine learning techniques.
Event framesare linguistic specifications concerning the be-haviour of verbs and nominalised verbs, in termsof the number and types of semantic argumentswith which they typically co-occur in texts.
Oureventual goal is to exploit such information toimprove information extraction.
Event frame ex-traction is different to event instance extraction(or template filling).
Our event frames are des-tined for incorporation in the BOOTStrepBioLexicon to support identification of relevantevent instances and  discovery of event instanceparticipants by NLP systems.2 BackgroundThere are several well-established, large-scalerepositories of semantic frames for general lan-guage, e.g., VerbNet (Kipper-Schuler, 2005),PropBank (Palmer et al, 2005) and FrameNet(Rupenhoffer et al 2006).
These all aim to char-acterise verb behaviour in terms of the semanticarguments with which verbs occur but differ inhow they represent semantic arguments andgroupings of verbs.In VerbNet, the semantic roles of argumentscome from frame-independent roles, e.g.
Agent,Patient, Location and Instrument.In contrast, PropBank and FrameNet use amixture of role types: some are common amongsta number of frames; others are specific to par-ticular frames.Whilst FrameNet and VerbNet differ in theirtreatment of semantic roles, they both specify761semantic frames that correspond to groups ofverbs with similar behaviour.
However, framesin PropBank correspond to individual verbs.Biology-specific extensions have been at-tempted both for PropBank (Wattarujeekrit et al,2004) and FrameNet (Dolbey et al, 2006).
How-ever, to our knowledge, there has been no suchattempt at extending VerbNet into the biologicaldomain.In common with VerbNet, our work is focus-sed on producing event frames that use a set offrame-independent semantic roles.
However, weadopt a smaller set of roles tailored to the domain.This use of frame-independent roles allows lin-guistic generalisations to be captured more easily(Cohen and Hunter, 2006).
Also, the use of suchroles is more suitable for direct exploitation byNLP systems (Zaphirain et al, 2008).Unlike VerbNet, we aim to produce a set offrames that are verb-specific (rather than framesthat apply to groups of verbs).
Verb-specificframes are able to provide more detailed argu-ment specifications?particularly important inthe biomedical field, where phrases that identifyinformation such as location, manner, timing andcondition are essential for correct interpretationof events (Tsai et al 2007).3 Annotated corpusTo aid semantic event frame extraction, we needa corpus annotated with event-level information.Several already exist for biology.
Some targetextraction of PropBank-style frames (e.g.
Chouet al (2006), Kulick et al (2004)).
The corpusproduced by Kim et al (2008) uses frame-independent roles.
However, only a few semanticargument types are annotated.The target of our event frame extraction is aset of semantic frames which specify all potentialarguments of gene regulation events.
For thispurpose, we had to produce our own annotatedcorpus, using a larger set of event-independentsemantic roles than Kim et al (2008).
Our roleshad to cover sufficiently wide scope to allow an-notation and characterization of all instantiatedarguments of relevant events within texts.
To ourknowledge, this makes our scheme unique withinthe biomedical field.In contrast to many other comparable re-sources, annotated events are centred on bothverbs and nominalised verbs, such as transcrip-tion and control.
Nominalised verbs play an im-portant and possibly dominant role in biologicaltexts (Cohen and Hunter, 2006).
Our own corpusconfirms this, in that the nominalised verb ex-pression is the most commonly annotated wordon which gene regulation events are centred.
Byannotating events centred on nominalised verbsin a similar way to verbs, it becomes possible toextract separate event frames for nominalisedverbs.
This enables their potentially idiosyncraticbehaviour to be accounted for.Role Name Description Example (bold = semantic argument, italics = focussed verb)AGENT Drives/instigates event The narL gene product activates the nitrate reductase operonTHEME a) Affected by/results from eventb) Focus of events describing statesrecA protein was induced by UV radiationThe FNR protein resembles CRPMANNER Method/way in which event is car-ried outcpxA gene increases the levels of csgA transcription by dephosphoryla-tion of CpxRINSTRUMENT Used to carry out event EnvZ functions through OmpR to control NP porin gene expression inEscherichia coli K-12.LOCATION Where complete event takes place Phosphorylation of OmpR modulates expression of the ompF and ompCgenes in Escherichia coliSOURCE Start point of event A transducing lambda phage was isolated from a strain harboring aglpD?
?lacZ fusionDESTINATION End point of event Transcription of gntT is activated by binding of the cyclic AMP (cAMP)-cAMP receptor protein (CRP) complex to a CRP binding siteTEMPORAL Situates event in time w.r.t anothereventThe Alp protease activity is detected in cells after introduction of plas-mids carrying the alpA geneCONDITION Environmental conditions/changesin conditionsStrains carrying a mutation in the crp structural gene fail to repress ODCand ADC activities in response to increased cAMPRATE Change of level or rate marR mutations elevated inaA expression by  10-  to 20-fold over that ofthe wild-type.DESCRIPTIVE-AGENTProvides descriptive informationabout the AGENT of the eventIt is likely that HyfR acts as a formate-dependent regulator of the hyfoperonDESCRIPTIVE-THEMEProvides descriptive informationabout the AGENT of the eventThe FNR protein resembles CRP.PURPOSE Purpose/reason for the event occur-ringThe fusion strains were used to study the regulation of the cysB gene byassaying the fused lacZ gene productTable 1.
Semantic Roles762Our annotated corpus consists of 677 MED-LINE abstracts on E. Coli.
Within them, a totalof 4770 gene regulation events have been anno-tated.3.1 Semantic RolesBased on the observations of Tsai et al(2007)regarding the most important types of informa-tion specified for biomedical events, togetherwith detailed examination of a large number ofrelevant events within our corpus, in discussionwith biologists, we defined a set of 13 frame-independent semantic roles that are suitable forthe domain.Certain roles within the set are domain-independent, and are based on those used inVerbNet, e.g.
AGENT, THEME, and LOCA-TION.
To these, we have added a number of do-main-dependent roles, e.g.
CONDITION andMANNER.
The size of the role set attempts tobalance the need for a sufficiently wide-rangingset of roles with the need for one that is as smalland general as possible, to reduce the burden onannotators, whilst also helping to ensure consis-tency across extracted verb frames.
The full setof semantic roles used is shown in Table 1.3.2  Named Entity CategorisationAlthough our semantic roles are rather general,the annotation scheme allows more detailed in-formation about semantic arguments to be en-coded in the corpus through the assignment ofnamed entity (NE) tags.
Unlike other corpus pro-jects, we do not annotate all entities within eachabstract, but just those entities that occur as se-mantic arguments of annotated gene regulationevents.Our set of NE tags goes beyond the traditionalview of NEs,  in that labelling is extended to in-clude events represented by nominalised verbs(e.g.
repression).
A total of 61 NE classes havebeen defined as being relevant to the gene regu-lation field, which are divided into four entity-specific super-classes (DNA, PROTEIN, EX-PERIMENTAL and ORGANISMS) and oneevent-specific super-class (PROCESSES).
TheNEs within each of these classes are hierarchi-cally-structured.
Table 2 provides definitions ofeach of these five super-classes.
The NEs corre-spond to classes in the Gene Regulation Ontol-ogy (Splendiani et al 2007), which has been de-veloped as part of the BOOTStrep project inwhich this work has been carried out.
The GeneRegulation Ontology integrates parts of otherestablished bio-ontologies, such as Gene Ontol-ogy (Ashburner et al, 2000) and Sequence On-tology (Eilbeck,2005).3.3 Annotation processAnnotation was carried out over a period of threemonths by seven PhD students with experiencein gene regulation and with native or near-nativecompetence in English.Prior to annotation, each abstract was auto-matically processed.
Firstly, linguistic pre-processing (i.e.
morphological analysis, POStagging and syntactic chunking)1 was carried out.Secondly, all occurrences from a list of 700biologically relevant verbs were automaticallymarked.
Annotators then considered each markedverb within an abstract.
If the verb denoted agene regulation event, annotators then:a.
Identified all semantic arguments of theverb within the sentenceb.
Assigned a semantic role to each identi-fied argument1 Each abstract to be annotated is first pre-processed withthe GENIA tagger (Tsuruoka et al 2005).NE class DefinitionDNAEntities chiefly composed of nucleicacids and their structural or positionalreferences.
This includes the physicalstructure of all DNA-based entitiesand the functional roles associatedwith regions thereof.PROTEINEntities chiefly composed of aminoacids and their positional references.This includes the physical structureand functional roles associated witheach type.EXPERIMENTALBoth physical and methodologicalentities, either used, consumed orrequired for a reaction to take place.ORGANISMSEntities representing individuals orcollections of living things and theircomponent parts.PROCESSES A set of event classes used to label biological processes described in text.Table 2.
Description of NE super-classes  Table 3.
Most commonly annotated verbs andnominalised verbsWord Count Typeexpression 409 NVencode 351 Vtranscription 125 NVbind 110 Vrequire 100 Vexpress 93 Vregulate 91 Vsynthesis 90 NVcontain 80 Vinduce 78 V763c.
If appropriate, assigned named entitycategories to (parts of) the semantic ar-gument spand.
If the argument corresponded to a nomi-nalised verb, repeated steps a?c to iden-tify its own arguments.Syntactic chunks were made visible to annota-tors.
In conjunction with annotation guidelines,the chunks were used to help ensure consistencyof annotated semantic arguments.
For example,the guidelines state that semantic argumentsshould normally consist of complete (and pref-erably single) syntactic chunks.
The annotationwas performed using a customised version ofWordFreak (Morton and LaCivita, 2003), a Java-based linguistic annotation tool.3.4  Corpus statisticsThe corpus is divided into 2 parts, i.e.1) 597 abstracts, each annotated by a singleannotator, containing a total of 3612events,2) 80 pairs of double-annotated documents,allowing checking of inter-annotatoragreement and consistency, and contain-ing 1158 distinct events.In the corpus, 277 distinct verbs were annotatedas denoting gene regulation events, of which 73were annotated 10 times or more.
In addition,annotation has identified 135 relevant nominal-ised verbs, of which 22 were annotated 10 timesor more.
The most commonly annotated verbsand nominalised verbs are shown in Table 3.3.5 Inter-annotator agreementInter-annotator agreement statistics for the 80pairs of duplicate-annotated abstracts are shownin Table 4.The figures shown in Table 4 are directagreement rates.
Whilst the Kappa statistic isvery familiar for calculating inter-annotatoragreement, we follow Wilbur et al (2006) andPyysalo (2007) in choosing not to use it, becauseit is not appropriate or possible to calculate it forall of the above statistics.
For instance:1.
For some tasks, like annotation of events andarguments spans, deciding how to calculaterandom agreement is not clear.2.
The Kappa statistic assumes that annotationcategories are discrete and mutually exclu-sive.
This is not the case for the NE catego-ries, which are hierarchically structured.Table 4 shows that, in terms of identifyingevents  (i.e.
determining which verbs denote generegulation events), agreement between annotatorsis reached about half the time.
The main reasonfor this relatively low figure is that reaching aconsensus on the specific types of events to beannotated under the heading of ?gene regulation?required a large amount of discussion.
Thus, par-ticularly towards the start of the annotation phase,annotators tended to either under- or over-annotate the events.Greater amounts of consistency seem to beachievable for other sub-tasks of the annotation,with agreement rates for the identification andsubsequent labelling of semantic arguments be-ing achieved in around three quarters of cases.Comparable, but slightly lower rates of agree-ment were achieved in the identification of NEs.In terms of assigning categories to them, theagreement rate for exact category matches is alittle lower (62%).
However, if we relax thematching conditions by exploiting the hierarchi-cal structure of the NE categories (i.e.
if wecount as a match the cases where the categoryassigned by one annotator was the ancestor of thecategory assigned by the other annotator), thenthe agreement increases by around 11%.The large number of NE categories (61),makes the decision of the most appropriate cate-gory rather complex; this was verified by the an-notators themselves.
Based on this, we will con-sider the use of a more coarse-grained schemewhen carrying out further annotation of this type.However, in the current corpus, the hierarchicalstructuring of the NE categories means that itwould be possible to use a smaller set of catego-ries by mapping the specific categories to moregeneral ones.4 Corpus FormatFor the purposes of event frame extraction, theannotations in the corpus were converted to anXML-style inline format consisting of three dif-ferent types of element:Table 4.
Inter-annotator agreement ratesAGREEMENT RATE VALUEEvent identification 0.49Argument identification (partial span match) 0.73Semantic role assignment 0.78NE identification (partial span match) 0.68NE category assignment (exact) 0.62NE category assignment (including parent) 0.65NE category assignment (including ancestors) 0.73764EVENT ?
surrounds text spans (i.e.
verbphrases and nominalised verbs) on whichevents are centred.SLOT ?
surrounds spans corresponding to se-mantic arguments (i.e.
slots) of events.
Thehead verb/nominalised verb of the event is alsotreated as a SLOT, with role type Verb.
Theeventid attribute links each slot with its respec-tive event, whilst the Role attribute indicatesthe semantic role assigned to the slot.NE ?
surrounds text spans annotated as namedentities.
The cat attribute stores the NE cate-gory assigned.Where there are several annotations over sometext span, elements are embedded inside eachother.
If more than one annotation begins at aparticular offset, then the ordering of the embed-ding is fixed, so that SLOT elements are embed-ded inside EVENT elements, and that NE ele-ments are embedded inside SLOT elements.
Anexample of the annotation for the sentence "TaqIrestriction endonuclease has been subcloneddownstream from an inducible phoA promoter"is shown below:<SLOT argid="4" eventid="5" Role="Theme"><NE cat="ENZYME">TaqI restriction endonucle-ase</NE></SLOT> <EVENT id="5">has been <SLOT argid="6" eventid="5"Role="Verb">subcloned </SLOT></EVENT><SLOT argid="8" eventid="5"Role="Location">downstream from<NE cat="PROMOTER">an inducible phoA pro-moter</NE></SLOT>.The EVENT created over the VP chunk hasbeen subcloned has been annotated as having 2semantic arguments (SLOTs), i.e.
a THEME,TaqI restriction endonuclease and a LOCATION,i.e.
downstream from an inducible phoA pro-moter.
A 3rd SLOT element corresponds to thehead verb in the VP chunk.
Named entity tagshave also been assigned to the THEME span andpart of the LOCATION span.5 Event Patterns and Event FramesThis section defines event patterns and eventframes.
Event patterns are syntactic patterns ofsequences of surface words, NEs, and semanticroles, whilst event frames are the record-like datastructures consisting of event slots and event slotvalues.5.1 Event PatternsEvent patterns are fragments of event annotationsin which semantic arguments are generalized totheir semantic role and NE categories, if present.An event pattern is extracted for each uniqueevent id within an abstract.
An event annotationspan begins with the earliest SLOT span, andends with the latest SLOT assigned to the event.An example event span is as follows:<SLOT eventid="9" Role="Agent"><NE cat="OPERON"> transfer operon</NE></SLOT><EVENT id="9"><SLOT eventid="9" Role="Verb">expression </SLOT></EVENT></SLOT> of<SLOT eventid="9" Role="Theme"><NE cat="DNA_FRAGMENT"> F-like plasmids</NE></SLOT>For each event, each event span is generalizedinto an event pattern as follows:?
?Verb?
role slots of the event are convertedinto a tuple consisting of the role type, part-of-speech and surface form, i.e.,[Verb:POS:verb].?
Other semantic role slots and their NE slotsfor the event are generalized to tuples con-sisting of the role and NE super class, i.e.,[role:NE_super_class].?
Other XML tags are removed.The above example event span is thus general-ized to the following event pattern:[Agent:DNA] [Verb:NN:expression] of [Theme:DNA].5.2 Event framesEvent frames are directly extracted from eventpatterns, and take the following general form:event_frame_name(slot_name => slot_value,?slot_name => slot_value).where?
event_frame_name is the base form of theevent verb or nominalized verb;?
slot_names are  the names of the semanticroles within the event pattern;?
slot_values are NE categories, if presentwithin the event pattern.For example, the event frame corresponding tothe event pattern shown in the previous section isas follows:expression( Agent=>DNA,Theme=>DNA ).7656 Event Frame ExtractionOur event frame extraction is a fusion of sequen-tial labelling based on Conditional RandomFields (CRF), and event pattern matching.
Eventframes are extracted in three steps.
Firstly, aCRF-based Named Entity Recognizer (NER)assigns biological NEs to word sequences.
Sec-ondly, a CRF-based semantic role labeller deter-mines the semantic roles of word sequences withNE labels.
Thirdly, word sequences are com-pared with event patterns derived from the cor-pus.
Only those event frames whose semanticroles, NEs, and verb POS satisfy event patternconditions will be extracted.6.1 Biological NERSince it is costly and time-consuming to create alarge-scale training corpus annotated by biolo-gists, we need to concede to use coarse-grainedbiological NE categories.
That is, the NER com-ponent is trained on the five NE super classes,i.e., Protein, DNA, Experimental, Organisms,and Processes.The NER models are trained by CRFs(Lafferty et al, 2001) using the standard IOB2labelling method.
That is, the label ``B-NE'' isgiven to the first token of the target NE sequence,?I-NE?
to each remaining token in the target se-quence,  and ``O'' to other tokens.Features used are as follows:?
word feature- orthographic features:the first letter and the last four letters of theword form, in which capital letters in a word arenormalized to ?A?, lower case letters are normal-ized to ?a?, and digits are replaced by ?0?.
Forexample, the word form ?IL-2?
is normalised to?AA-0?.- postfix features:  the last two and four let-ters?
POS featureWe applied first-order CRFs using the above fea-tures for the tokens within a window size of  ?2of the current token.6.2 Semantic Role LabellingFirst of all, each NE token sequence identified byB and I labels is merged into a single token withthe NE category name.
Then, the semantic rolelabelling models are trained by CRFs in a similarway to NER.
That is, the label ``B-Role'' is givento the first token of the target Role sequence, ?I-Role?
to each remaining token in the target se-quence, and ?O?
to other tokens.Features used here are as follows:?
word feature?
base form feature?
POS feature?
NE featureThe window size was ?2 of the current token.6.3 Event pattern matchingWhen a new sentence is given, sequential label-ling models decide NE and semantic role labelsof tokenized input sentences.
Then, the tokensequences are converted into the following tokensequences with POS, semantic role, and NE in-formation (called augmented token sequences):1.
Each token sequence labelled by IOB seman-tic role labels is merged into a token labelledwith the role.2.
Verbs and nominalized verbs are convertedto [Verb:POS:surface_form].3.
Tokens with semantic role label and NE su-per-class are converted into the form[Role:NE_super_class].4.
Other tokens with O label are converted tosurface tokens.Then, event patterns are generalized:5.
Event patterns are modified so that elementscorresponding to verbs and nominalizedverbs will match any words with the samePOS, e.g., [Verb:POS:*].Finally, each event pattern is applied to aug-mented token sequences one by one:6.
By matching the generalized event patternswith augmented token sequences, i.e.
whenverbs or nominalized verbs and the surround-ing semantic roles and NEs satisfy the eventpattern conditions, then successfully unifiedevent patterns are extracted as new event pat-terns.7.
The newly obtained event patterns are con-verted into event frames in the same way asdescribed in Section 5.2.7 Experimental ResultsThe aim of this section is to evaluate semanticframe extraction performance, given a set of an-notated training data.The annotated corpus was randomly separatedinto 10 document groups and their event patterns766and event frames were segmented into 10 groupsaccording to the document separation.We conducted 10-fold cross validation basedon the 10 document groups.
Named entity rec-ognizers and semantic role labellers were trainedusing 9 groups of annotated documents.
Eventframes were then extracted from the remaininggroup of documents.
Micro-average precisionand recall for the set of event frames extractedfrom all the folds were evaluated.Table 5 shows the event frame extraction per-formance.
#TP, #FN, and #FP indicate the num-ber of true positives, false negatives, and falsepositives, respectively.Named entity recognition performance wasalso evaluated (Table 6).
Since the training datasize is small, the performance is between ap-proximately 20-60% F-measure.
However, thiswill not cause a problem for the event frame ex-traction task.
This is because, if a particularevent frame occurs multiple times in a corpus, itis sufficient to extract only a single occurrence ofthe event description.
So, whilst the NE and se-mantic role labelling may not be successful forall occurrences of the event frame, there is agood chance that at least one occurrence of theevent will be realized in the text in such a way asto allow the labelling to be carried out success-fully, thus allowing the extraction of an appro-priate event frame.8 DiscussionLinguistic-level event annotation of biologicalevents is an inherently difficult task.
This issupported by the fact that the inter-annotatoragreement level for the identification of eventswas 0.49 (see Table 4).
Therefore, in terms ofevent extraction performance, a precision of49.0% on 10-fold cross validation is almostcomparable to human experts.
The low recall of18.6% may not be an issue, as the recall is likelyto improve with the size of the target corpus.The precision may additionally be underesti-mated in the evaluation due to inconsistencies inthe annotation.
We found that the average preci-sion of our event frame extraction over 10 foldsis around 30%, despite the fact that the precisionof all event frames extracted from 10 folds isalmost 50% compared with the annotated eventframes in the whole corpus.
This happens be-cause some events not annotated in a particularfold are annotated in the rest of corpus.
Fromthis insight, our conjecture is that the true preci-sion against the whole corpus would be some-what higher (potentially 70-80%) if we were us-ing an annotated corpus 10 times larger for theevaluation.The automatic NER performance was alsocomparable to human annotators.There are several approaches to the generationof information extraction patterns (e.g.
Soderlandet al, 1995; Califf et al, 1997; Kim and Moldo-van, 1995).
Our event patterns are similar to in-formation extraction rules used in conventionalIE systems.
However, the goal of this paper isnot event instance extraction but event (or se-mantic) frame extraction.
We also combinedCRF-based NER and semantic role labellingtuned for gene regulation with event extractionfrom sentences so that the clues of gene regula-tion event frames could be assigned automati-cally to un-annotated text.9 ConclusionThis paper has presented linguistic annotation ofgene regulation events in MEDLINE abstracts,and automatic event frame extraction based onthe annotated corpus.
Semantic event frames arelinguistic resources effective in bridging betweendomain knowledge and text in IE tasks.Although biological event annotations carriedout by domain experts is a challenging task, ex-perimental results on event frame extractiondemonstrate a precision of almost 50%, which isclose to the inter-annotator agreement rate ofhuman annotators.The extracted event frames will be included inthe BOOTStrep BioLexicon, which will be madeavailable for research purposes.AcknowledgementThis research is supported by EC IST projectFP6-028099 (BOOTStrep), whose Manchesterteam is hosted by the JISC/BBSRC/EPSRCsponsored National Centre for Text Mining.Table 5.
10-fold cross validation resultsScore #TP #FN #FPRecall  0.186 165 730Precision 0.490 165  172Table 6.
NE identification performanceNE Type Recall Precision FDNA 0.627  0.660  0.643Protein 0.525  0.633  0.574Experimental 0.224  0.512  0.312Processes 0.125  0.337  0.182Organisms 0.412  0.599  0.488767ReferencesCaliff, Mary E. and Raymond J. Mooney (1997).Relational Learning of Pattern-Match Rules for In-formation Extraction, In Proceedings of the ACL-97 Workshop in Natural Language Learning, pp 9?15.Chou, Wen-Chi., Richard T.H.
Tsai, Ying-Shan Su,Wei Ku, Ting-Yi Sung and Wen-Lian Hsu (2006).A Semi-Automatic Method for Annotating a Bio-medical Proposition Bank.
In Proceedings of theWorkshop on Frontiers in Linguistically AnnotatedCorpora 2006, pp 5?12.Cohen, K. Bretonnel and Laurence Hunter (2006).
Acritical review of PASBio's argument structures forbiomedical verbs.
BMC Bioinformatics 7 (Suppl.
3),S5.Dolbey, Andrew, Michael Ellsworth and JanScheffczykx (2006).
BioFrameNet: A Domain-Specific FrameNet Extension with Links to Bio-medical Ontologies.
In O. Bodenreider (Ed.
), InProceedings of KR-MED, pp 87?94.Eilbeck, Karen, Suzanna .E Lewis., Christopher J.Mungall, Mark Yandell, Lincoln Stein, RichardDurbin and Michael Ashburner.
(2005) The Se-quence Ontology: A tool for the unification of ge-nome annotations.
Genome Biology 6:R44Kim, Jin-Dong,  Tomoko Ohta and Jun?ichi Tsujii(2008).
Corpus annotation for mining biomedicalevents from literature.
BMC Bioinformatics 9:10.Kim, Jun-Tae and Dan I. Moldovan (1995).
Acquisi-tion of Linguistic Patterns for Knowledge-BasedInformation Extraction.
IEEE Transaction onKnowledge and Data Engineering (IEEE TKDE),7(5), pp.713?724.Kipper-Schuler, Karen (2005).
VerbNet: A broad-coverage, comprehensive verb lexicon.
PhD Thesis.Computer and Information Science Dept., Univer-sity of Pennsylvania.
Philadelphia, PA.Kulick Seth, Ann Bies, Mark Liberman, Mark Mandel,Ryan McDonald, Martha Palmer, Andrew Schein,and Lyle Ungar  (2004) Integrated Annotation forBiomedical Information Extraction.
In HLT-NAACL 2004 Workshop: BioLink 2004, LinkingBiological Literature, Ontologies and Databases,pp 61?68.Lafferty John, Andrew McCallum and FernandoPereira (2001).
Conditional Random Fields: Prob-abilistic Models for Segmenting and Labelling Se-quence Data.
In Proceedings of the Eighteenth In-ternational Conference on    Machine Learning(ICML-2001), pp 282?289.Morton, Thomas and Jeremy LaCivita (2003).
Word-Freak: an open tool for linguistic annotation.
InProceedings of the 2003 Conference of the NorthAmerican Chapter of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics on Human Language Technology,pp 17?18.Palmer Martha, Paul Kingsbury and Daniel Gildea(2005).
The Proposition Bank: An Annotated Cor-pus of Semantic Roles.
Computational Linguistics,31(1), pp 71?106.Pyysalo, Sampo, Filip Ginter, Juho Heimonen, JariBj?rne, Jorma Boberg, Jouni J?rvinen and  TapioSalakoski (2007).
BioInfer: a corpus for informa-tion extraction in the biomedical domain?.
BMCBioinformatics 8:50.Ruppenhofer, Josef, Michael Ellsworth, Miriam R.L.Petruck, Christopher R. Johnson, and JanScheffczyk (2006).
FrameNet II: Extended The-ory and Practice.
Available online athttp://framenet.icsi.berkeley.edu/Soderland, Steven, David Fisher, Jonathan Aseltineand  Wendy Lenert (1995).
CRYSTAL: Inducing aConceptual Dictionary, In Proceedings of The 13thInternational Joint Conference on Artificial Intelli-gence (IJCAI-95).
pp.1314?1319.The Gene Ontology Consortium.
(2000).
Gene Ontol-ogy: tool for the unification of biology.
Nature Ge-netetics 25, pp 25?29.Tsai Richard T.H, Wen-Chi Chou, Ying-San Su, Yu-Chun Lin, Chen-Lung Sung, Hong-Jie Dai, IreneT.H Yeh, Wei Ku, Ting-Yi Sung and Wen-LianHsu (2007).
BIOSMILE: A semantic role labelingsystem for biomedical verbs using a maximum-entropy model with automatically generated tem-plate features, BMC Bioinformatics 8:325Tsuruoka, Yoshimasa, Yuka Tateishi, Jin-Dong Kim,Tomoko Ohta, John McNaught, Sophia Ananiadou,and Jun?ichi Tsujii (2005).
Developing a RobustPart-of-Speech Tagger for Biomedical Text, In Ad-vances in Informatics - 10th Panhellenic Confer-ence on Informatics, pp 382?392.Wattarujeekrit, Tuangthong, Parantu K. Shah andNigel Collier (2004).
PASBio: predicate-argumentstructures for event extraction in molecular biology,BMC Bioinformatics 5:155.Wilbur, W.John, Andrey Rzhetsky, and Hagit Shatkay(2006).
New Directions in Biomedical Text Anno-tations: Definitions.
Guidelines and Corpus Con-struction.
BMC Bioinformatics.
7:356Zapirain, Be?at, Eneko Agirre, Llu?s M?rquez (2008).A Preliminary Study on the Robustness and Generali-zation of Role Sets for Semantic Role Labeling.
InAlexander F. Gelbukh (Ed.
), Computational Linguis-tics and Intelligent Text Processing, 9th InternationalConference, CICLing 2008.768
