Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2008), pages 801?808Manchester, August 2008Discourse Level Opinion Interpretation ?Swapna SomasundaranDept.
of Computer ScienceUniversity of PittsburghPittsburgh, PA 15260swapna@cs.pitt.eduJanyce WiebeDept.
of Computer ScienceUniversity of PittsburghPittsburgh, PA 15260wiebe@cs.pitt.eduJosef RuppenhoferIntelligent Systems ProgramUniversity of PittsburghPittsburgh, PA 15260josefr@cs.pitt.eduAbstractThis work proposes opinion frames as arepresentation of discourse-level associa-tions which arise from related opinion top-ics.
We illustrate how opinion frames helpgather more information and also assistdisambiguation.
Finally we present the re-sults of our experiments to detect these as-sociations.1 IntroductionOpinions have been investigated at the phrase, sen-tence, and document levels.
However, little workhas been carried out regarding interpreting opin-ions at the level of the discourse.Consider the following excerpt from a dialogabout designing a remote control for a television(the opinion targets ?
what the opinions are about?
are shown in italics).
(1) D :: And I thought not too edgy and like a box, morekind of hand-held not as computery, yeah, more or-ganic shape I think.
Simple designs, like the last onewe just saw, not too many buttons.Speaker D expresses an opinion in favor of adesign that is simple and organic in shape, andagainst an alternative design which is not.
Severalindividual opinions are expressed in this passage.The first is a negative opinion about the design be-ing too edgy and box-like, the next is a positiveopinion toward a hand-held design, followed by anegative opinion toward a computery shape, andso on.
While recognizing individual expressions?This research was supported in part by the Department ofHomeland Security under grant N000140710152.?c?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative CommonsAttribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unported li-cense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).Some rights reserved.of opinions and their properties is important, dis-course interpretation is needed as well.
It is by un-derstanding the passage as a discourse that we seeedgy, like a box, computery, and many buttons asdescriptions of the type of design D does not pre-fer, and hand-held, organic shape, and simple de-signs as descriptions of the type he does.
These de-scriptions are not in general synonyms/antonymsof one another; for example, there are hand-held?computery?
devices and simple designs that areedgy.
The unison/opposition among the descrip-tions is due to how they are used in the discourse.This paper focuses on such relations betweenthe targets of opinions in discourse.
Specifically, inthis work, we propose a scheme of opinion frames,which consist of two opinions that are related byvirtue of having united or opposed targets.
Weargue that recognizing opinion frames will pro-vide more opinion information for NLP applica-tions than recognizing individual opinions alone.Further, if there is uncertainty about any one of thecomponents, we believe opinion frames are an ef-fective representation incorporating discourse in-formation to make an overall coherent interpreta-tion (Hobbs et al, 1993).
Finally, we also reportthe first results of experiments in recognizing thepresence of these opinion frames.We introduce our data in Section 2, presentopinion frames in Section 3 and illustrate their util-ity in Section 4.
Our experiments are in Section 5,related work is discussed in Section 6, and conclu-sions are in Section 7.2 DataThe data used in this work is the AMI meet-ing corpus (Carletta et al, 2005) which con-tains multi-modal recordings of group meetings.Each meeting has rich transcription and seg-801ment (turn/utterance) information for each speaker.Each utterance consists of one or more sentences.We also use some of the accompanying manual an-notations (like adjacency pairs) as features in ourmachine learning experiments.3 Opinion FramesIn this section, we lay out definitions relating toopinion frames, illustrate with examples how theseare manifested in our data, and consider them inthe context of discourse relations.3.1 DefinitionsThe components of opinion frames are individualopinions and the relationships between their tar-gets.
Following (Wilson and Wiebe, 2005; So-masundaran et al, 2007), we address two types ofopinions, sentiment and arguing.Sentiment includes positive and negative eval-uations, emotions, and judgments.
Arguing in-cludes arguing for or against something, and argu-ing that something should or should not be done.Opinions have a polarity that can be positive ornegative.
1 The target of an opinion is the entity orproposition that the opinion is about.
We establishrelations between targets, in the process relatingtheir respective opinions.
We address two types ofrelations, same and alternative.The same relation holds between targets thatrefer to the same entity, property, or proposi-tion.
Observing the relations marked by an-notators, we found that same covers not onlyidentity, but also part-whole, synonymy, gener-alization, specialization, entity-attribute, instan-tiation, cause-effect, epithets and implicit back-ground topic, i.e., relations that have been studiedby many researchers in the context of anaphora andco-reference (e.g.
(Clark, 1975; Vieira and Poe-sio, 2000; Mueller and Strube, 2001)).
Actually,same relations holding between entities often in-volve co-reference (where co-reference is broadlyconceived to include relations such as part-wholelisted above).
However, there are no morpho-syntactic constraints on what targets may be.
Thus,same relations may also hold between adjectivephrases, verb phrases, and clauses.
An instance ofthis is Example 1, where the same target relationholds between the adjectives edgy and computery.1Polarity can also be neutral or both (Wilson and Wiebe,2005), but these values are not significant for our opinionframes.SPSPsame, SNSNsame, APAPsame, ANANsame,SPAPsame, APSPsame, SNANsame, ANSNsame,SPSNalt, SNSPalt, APANalt, ANAPalt,SPANalt, SNAPalt, APSNalt, ANSPaltSPSNsame, SNSPsame, APANsame, ANAPsame,SPANsame, APSNsame, SNAPsame, ANSPsame,SPSPalt, SNSNalt, APAPalt, ANANalt,SPAPalt, SNANalt, APSPalt, ANSNaltTable 1: Opinion FramesThe alternative relation holds between targetsthat are related by virtue of being opposing (mu-tually exclusive) options in the context of the dis-course.
For example, in the domain of TV remotecontrols, the set of all shapes are alternatives toone another, since a remote control may have onlyone shape at a time.
In such scenarios, a positiveopinion regarding one choice may imply a nega-tive opinion toward competing choices, and viceversa.
Objects appear as alternatives via world anddomain knowledge (for example, shapes of a re-mote); the context of the discourse (for example,Hillary Clinton and Barak Obama are alternativesin discussions of the primaries, but not in discus-sions of the general election); and the way the ob-jects are juxtaposed while expressing opinions (forinstance hand-held and computery in Example 1).While same and alternative are not the only pos-sible relations between targets, they commonly oc-cur in task-oriented dialogs such as those in thedata we use.Now that we have all the ingredients, we candefine opinion frames.
An opinion frame is de-fined as a structure composed of two opinions andtheir respective targets connected via their targetrelations.
With four opinion type/polarity pairs(SN,SP,AN,AP), for each of two opinion slots, andtwo possible target relations, we have 4 * 4 * 2 =32 types of frame, listed in Table 1.3.2 ExamplesWe will now illustrate how the frames are appliedwith the following meeting snippets from the AMImeeting corpus.
In our examples, the lexical an-chors revealing the opinion type (as the words areinterpreted in context) are indicated in bold face.The text span capturing the target of the opinion(as interpreted in context) is indicated in italics.
Tomake it easier to understand the opinion frames,we separately list each opinion, followed by themajor relation between the targets and, in paren-theses, the relevant subtype of the major relation.In the passage below, the speaker D expresses802his preferences about the material for the TV re-mote.
(2) D:: ... this kind of rubbery material, it?s a bit morebouncy, like you said they get chucked around a lot.A bit more durable and that 2 can also be ergonomicand it kind of feels a bit different from all the otherremote controls.Opinion Span - target Span TypeO1 bit more bouncy - it?s [t1] SPO2 bit more durable - ellipsis [t2] SPO3 ergonomic - that [t3] SPO4 a bit different from all the other remote - it [t4] SPTarget - target Relt1 - t2 same (ellipsis)t3 - t4 same (identity)t1 - t3 same (identity)The speaker?s positive sentiment regarding therubbery material is apparent from the text spansbit more bouncy (Sentiment Positive or SP), bitmore durable (SP), ergonomic (SP) and a bit dif-ferent from all the other remote controls (SP).As shown, the targets of these opinions (it?s [t1],that [t3], and it [t4]) are related by the same rela-tion.
The ellipsis occurs with bit more durable.Target [t2] represents the (implicit) target of thatopinion, and [t2] has a same relation to [t1], thetarget of the bit more bouncy opinion.
The opin-ion frames occurring throughout this passage areall SPSPsame denoting that both the opinion com-ponents are sentiments with positive polarity witha same relation between their targets.
One frameoccurs between O1 and O2, another between O3and O4, and so on.Example 2 illustrates relatively simple same re-lations between targets.
Now let us consider themore involved passage below, in which a meetingparticipant analyzes two leading remotes on themarket.
(3) D:: These are two leading remote controls at the mo-ment.
You know they?re grey, this one?s got loads ofbuttons, it?s hard to tell from here what they actuallydo, and they don?t look very exciting at all.Opinion Span - target Span RelO1 leading - remote controls [t1] SPO2 grey - they [t2] SNO3 loads of buttons - this one [t3] SNO4 hard to tell - they [t4] SNO5 don?t look very exciting at all - they [t5] SNTarget - target Relt1 - t2 same (identity)t2 - t3 same (t3 subset of t2)2Note that the ?that?
refers to the property of beingdurable; however, as our annotation scheme is not hierarchi-cal, we connect it to the entity the opinion is about ?
in thiscase the rubbery material.t3 - t4 same (t4 partof t3)t5 - t1 same (identity)Target [t2] is the set of two leading remotes; [t3],which is in a same relation with [t2], is one of thoseremotes.
Target [t4], which is also in a same rela-tion with [t3], is a part of that remote, namely itsbuttons.
Thus, opinion O3 is directly about one ofthe remotes, and indirectly about the set of both re-motes.
Similarly, O4 is directly about the buttonsof one of the remotes, and indirectly about that re-mote itself.
The assessments at different levels ac-crue toward the analysis of the main topic underconsideration.Moving on to alternative (alt) relations, con-sider the passage below, where the speaker is ar-guing for the curved shape.
(4) C:: .
.
.
shapes should be curved, so round shapes.Nothing square-like....C:: .
.
.
So we shouldn?t have too square corners andthat kind of thing.B:: Yeah okay.
Not the old box look.Opinion Span - target Span RelO1 should be - curved [t1] APO2 Nothing - square-like [t2] ANO3 shouldn?t have - square corners [t3] ANO4 too - square corners [t3] SNO5 Not - the old box look [t4] ANO6 the old box look - the old box look [t4] SNTarget - target Relt1 -t2 alternativest2 - t3 same (specification)t3 - t4 same (epithet)Opinion O1 argues for a curved shape, O2 ar-gues against a square shape, and O3 argues againstsquare corners.
Note that square corners is alsothe target of a negative sentiment, O4, expressedhere by too.
Opinion O5 argues against the oldbox look.
In addition, the wording old box lookimplies a negative sentiment ?
O6 (we list the tar-get span as ?old box look,?
which refers to the lookof having square corners).There is an alt relation between [t1] and [t2].Thus, we have an opinion frame of type APANaltbetween O1 and O2.
From this frame, we are ableto understand that a positive opinion is expressedtoward something and a negative opinion is ex-pressed toward its alternative.3.3 Link TransitivityWhen individual targets are linked, they form achain-like structure.
Due to this, a connecting pathmay exist between targets that were not directly803linked by the human annotators.
This path can betraversed to create links between new pairs of tar-gets, which in turn results in new opinion framerelations.Let us illustrate this idea with Example 4.
Theframes with direct relations are O1O2 APANalt.By following the alt link from [t1] to [t2] and thesame link from [t2] to [t3], we have an alt linkbetween [t1] and [t3], and the additional framesO1O3 APANalt and O1O4 APSNalt.
Repeatingthis process would finally link speaker C?s opinionO1 with B?s opinion O6 via a APSNalt frame.Simple recipes such as this can be used by ap-plications such as QA to gather more informationfrom the discourse.3.4 Frame TypesIn our corpus, we found that the 32 frames of Ta-ble 1 can be categorized into two functional types:reinforcing frames and non-reinforcing frames.The set of frames that occur in scenarios wherethe speaker intends to fortify or reinforce his opin-ion/stance are called reinforcing frames.
Theseare the ones in the top row of the Table 1.
Note thatthese frames cover all opinion types, polarities andtarget relations.
It is the particular combination ofthese frame components that bring about the rein-forcement of the opinion in the discourse.On the other hand, the frames at the bottom rowof the table are non-reinforcing.
In our corpus,these frames occur when a speaker is ambivalentor weighing pros and cons.Example 2 is characterized by opinion framesin which the opinions reinforce one another ?
thatis, individual positive sentiments (SP) occurringthroughout the passage fortify the positive regardfor the rubbery material via the same target rela-tions and the resulting SPSPsame frames.Interestingly, interplays among different opin-ion types may show the same type of reinforce-ment.
For instance, Example 4 is characterized bymixtures of opinion types, polarities, and target re-lations.
However, the opinions are still unified inthe intention to argue for a particular type of shape.3.5 Discourse Relations and Opinion FramesOpinion-frame recognition and discourse interpre-tation go hand in hand; together, they providericher overall interpretations.
For example, con-sider the opinion frames and the Penn DiscourseTreebank relations (Prasad et al, 2007) for Ex-ample 2.
PDTB would see a list or conjunctionrelation between the clauses containing opinionsbit more durable (O2) and ergonomic (O3), aswell as between the clauses containing opinionsergonomic (O3) and a bit different from all theother remote controls (O4).
All of our opinionframes for this passage are of type SPSPsame, areinforcing frame type.
This passage illustratesthe case in which discourse relations nicely corre-spond to opinion frames.
The opinion frames fleshout the discourse relations: we have lists specifi-cally of positive sentiments toward related objects.However, opinion-frame and discourse-relationschemes are not redundant.
Consider the followingthree passages.
(e1) Non-reinforcing opinion frame (SNSPsame); Con-trast discourse relationD:: .
.
.
I draw for you this schema that can be maybetoo technical for you but is very important for me.
.
..(e2) Reinforcing opinion frame (SNAPalt); Contrastdiscourse relationD:: not too edgy and like a box, more kind of hand-held(e3) Reinforcing opinion frame (SPSPsame); no dis-course relation.
.
.
they want something that?s easier to use straightaway, more intuitive perhaps.In both e1 and e2, the discourse relation be-tween the two opinions is contrast (?too technical?is contrasted with ?very important?, and ?not tooedgy and like a box?
is contrasted with ?more kindof hand-held?).
However, the opinion frame in e1is SNSPsame, which is a non-reinforcing frame,while the opinion frame in e2 is SNAPalt, whichis a reinforcing frame.
In e3, the opinion frameholds between targets within a subordinated clause(easier to use and more intuitive are two desiredtargets); most discourse theories don?t predict anydiscourse relation in this situation.Generally speaking, we find that there are notdefinitive mappings between opinion frames andthe relations of popular discourse theories.
For ex-ample, Hobbs?
(Hobbs et al, 1993) contrast cov-ers at least four of our frames (SPSPalt, APAPalt,APANsame, SPSNsame), while, for instance, ourSPSPsame frame can map to both the elaborationand explanation relations.4 Benefits of Discourse Opinion FramesThis section argues for two motivations for opinionframes: they may unearth additional informationover and above the individual opinions stated inthe text, and they may contribute toward arriving804Positive NegativeCounting only individual opinionsAccepted Items 120 20Rejected Items 9 12individual + opinions via Reinforcing Opinion framesAccepted Items 252 63Rejected Items 22 26Table 2: Opinion Polarity Distribution for Ac-cepted/Rejected Itemsat a coherent interpretation (Hobbs et al, 1993) ofthe opinions in the discourse.4.1 Gathering More InformationFrame relations provide a mechanism to relateopinions expressed in non-local contexts - theopinion may occur elsewhere in the discourse, butwill become relevant to a given target due to a re-lation between its target and the given target.
Forinstance, in Example 3, there is one direct eval-uation of the leading remotes (O1) and two eval-uations via identity (O2, O5).
Following framesconstructed via t2-t3 and t3-t4, we get two moreopinions (O3 and O4) for the leading remotes.Furthermore, opinions regarding something notlexically or even anaphorically related can be-come relevant, providing more opinion informa-tion.
This is particularly interesting when alt re-lations are involved, as opinions towards one alter-native imply opinions of opposite polarity towardthe competing options.
For instance in Example 4,if we consider only the explicitly stated opinions,there is only one (positive) opinion, O1, about thecurved shape.
However, the speaker expresses sev-eral other opinions which reinforce his positivitytoward the curved shape.
Thus, by using the frameinformation, it is possible to gather more opinionsregarding curved shapes for TV remotes.As a simple proof of concept, we counted thenumber of positive and negative opinions towardsthe items that were accepted or rejected in themeetings (information about accepted and rejecteditems is obtained from the manual abstractive sum-maries provided by the AMI corpus).
Counts areobtained, over opinions manually annotated in thedata, for two conditions: with and without frameinformation.
The items in our meeting data aremainly options for the new TV remote, which in-clude attributes and features like different shapes,materials, designs, and functionalities.
We ob-served that for the accepted items, the number ofpositive opinions is higher and, for rejected items,the number of negative opinions is higher.
Thetop section of Table 2 shows a contingency ta-ble of counts of positive/negative opinions for ac-cepted/rejected items for 5 AMI meetings.Then we counted the number of reinforc-ing opinions that were expressed regarding theseitems.
This meant also counting additional opin-ions that were related via reinforcing frames.
Thebottom section of Table 2 shows the counts whenthe reinforcing frames are considered.
Comparedto the counts of only individual opinions, we seethat the numbers in each cell have increased, whilemaintaining the same pattern of distribution.Thus, in effect we have procured more instancesof opinions for the items.
We believe this addedinformation would help applications like meetingsummarizers and QA systems to make more in-formed decisions.4.2 Interdependent InterpretationWe believe that our opinion frames, anaphoric re-lations and discourse relations can symbioticallyhelp disambiguate each other in the discourse.
Inparticular, suppose that some aspect of an individ-ual opinion, such as polarity, is unclear.
If the dis-course suggests certain opinion frames, this may inturn resolve the underlying ambiguity.Revisiting Example 2 from above, we see thatout of context, the polarities of bouncy and dif-ferent from other remotes are unclear (bounci-ness and being different may be negative attributesfor another type of object).
However, the polari-ties of two of the opinions are clear (durable andergonomic).
There is evidence in this passage ofdiscourse continuity and same relations such as thepronouns, the lack of contrastive cue phrases, andso on.
This evidence suggests that the speaker ex-presses similar opinions throughout the passage,making the opinion frame SPSPsame more likelythroughout.
Recognizing the frames would resolvethe polarity ambiguities of bouncy and different.In the following example (5), the positive senti-ment (SP) towards the this and the positive arguing(AP) for the it are clear.
These two individual opin-ions can be related by a same/alt target relation, beunrelated, or have some other relation not coveredby our scheme (in which case we would not havea relation between them).
There is evidence in thediscourse that makes one interpretation more likelythan others.
The ?so?
indicates that the two clausesare highly likely to be related by a cause discourse805relation (PDTB).
This information confirms a dis-course continuity, as well as makes a reinforcingscenario likely, which makes the reinforcing frameSPAPsame highly probable.
This increase in like-lihood will in turn help a coreference system to in-crease its confidence that the ?that?
and the ?it?co-refer.
(5) B :: ... and this will definitely enhance our marketsales, so we should take it into consideration also.Opinion Span - target Span RelO1 definitely enhance our market sales - this [t1] SPO2 so we should - it [t2] APTarget - target Relt1 -t2 same (identity)5 ExperimentsThere has been much work on recognizing indi-vidual aspects of opinions like extracting individ-ual opinions from phrases or sentences and recog-nizing opinion type and polarity.
Accordingly, inour machine learning experiments we assume ora-cle opinion and polarity information.
Our experi-ments thus focus on the new question: ?Given twoopinion sentences, determine if they participate inany frame relation.?
Here, an opinion sentence is asentence containing one or more sentiment or ar-guing expression.
In this work, we consider framedetection only between sentence pairs belonging tothe same speaker.5.1 Annotation of Gold StandardCreating gold-standard opinion-frame data is ac-complished by annotating frame components andthen building the frames from those underlying an-notations.We began with annotations created by Soma-sundaran et al (2007), namely four meetingsof the AMI meeting corpus annotated for senti-ment and arguing opinions (text anchor and type).Following that annotation scheme, we annotatedan additional meeting.
This gave us a corpus of4436 sentences or 2942 segments (utterances).
Weadded attributes to the existing opinion annota-tions, namely polarity and target-id.
The target-id attribute links the opinion to its local targetspan.
Relations between targets were then anno-tated.
When a newly annotated target is similar (oropposed) to a set of targets already participating insame relations, then the same (or alt) link is madeonly to one of them - the one that seems most natu-ral.
This is often the one that is physically closest.Content Word overlap between the sentence pairFocus space overlap between the sentence pairAnaphoric indicator in the second sentenceTime difference between the sentence pairNumber of intervening sentencesExistence of adjacency pair between the sentence pairBag of words for each sentenceTable 3: Features for Opinion Frame detectionLink transitivity is then used to connect targets thatare not explicitly linked by the annotators.All annotations were performed by two of theco-authors of this paper by consensus labeling.The details of our annotation scheme and inter-annotator agreement studies are presented in (So-masundaran et al, 2008).Once the individual frame components are an-notated, conceptually, a frame exists for a pair ofopinions if their polarities are either positive ornegative and their targets are in a same or alt rela-tion.
For our experiments, if a path exists betweentwo targets, then their opinions are considered tobe participating in an opinion-frame relation.The experimental data consists of pairs of opin-ion sentences and the gold-standard informationwhether there exists a frame between them.
Weapproximate continuous discourse by only pair-ing sentences that are not more than 10 sentencesapart.
We also filter out sentences that are less thantwo words in length in order to handle data skew-ness.
This filters out very small sentences (e.g.,?Cool.?)
which rarely participate in frames.
Theexperiments were performed on a total of 2539sentence pairs, of which 551 are positive instances.5.2 FeaturesThe factor that determines if two opinions arerelated is primarily the target relations betweenthem.
Instead of first finding the target span foreach opinion sentence and then inferring if theyshould be related, we directly try to encode targetrelation information in our features.
By this ap-proach, even in the absence of explicit target-spaninformation, we are able to determine if the opin-ion sentence pairs are related.We explored a number of features to incorpo-rate this.
The set that give the best performanceare listed in Table 3.
The content word overlapfeature captures the degree of topic overlap be-tween the sentence pair, and looks for target re-lations via identity.
The focus space overlap fea-ture is motivated by our observation that partici-806Acc.
Prec.
Recall F-measureFalse 78.3% - 0% -Distribution 66% 21.7% 21.7% 21.4%Random 50.0% 21.5% 49.4% 29.8 %True 21.7% 21.6% 100% 35.5 %System 67.6% 36.8% 64.9% 46%Table 4: Automatic Detection of Opinion Framespants refer to an established discourse topic with-out explicitly referring to it.
Thus, we construct afocus space for each sentence containing recentlyused NP chunks.
The feature is the percent over-lap between the focus spaces of the two opinionsentences.
The anaphoric indicator feature checksfor the presence of pronouns such as it and thatin the second sentence to account for target rela-tions via anaphora.
The time difference betweenthe sentences and the number of intervening sen-tences are useful features to capture the idea thattopics shift with time.
The existence of an adja-cency pair 3 between the sentences can clue thesystem that the opinions in the sentences are re-lated too.
Finally, standard bag of words featuresare included for each sentence.5.3 ResultsWe performed 5-fold cross validation experiments,using the standard SVMperf package (Joachims,2005), an implementation of SVMs designedfor optimizing multivariate performance measures.We found that, on our skewed data, optimizing onF-measure obtains the best results.Our system is compared to four baselines in Ta-ble 4.
The majority class baseline which alwaysguesses false (False) has good accuracy but zerorecall.
The baseline that always guesses true (True)has 100% recall and the best f-measure among thebaselines, but poor accuracy.
We also constructeda baseline that guesses true/false over the test setbased on the distribution in the training data (Dis-tribution).
This baseline is smarter than the otherbaselines, as it does not indiscriminately guess anyone of the class.
The last baseline Random guessestrue 50% of the time.The bottom row of Table 4 shows the perfor-mance of our system (System).
The skewness ofthe data affects the baselines as well as our sys-tem.
Our system beats the best baseline f-measureby over 10 percentage points, and the best base-line precision by 14 percentage points.
Comparing3Adjacency Pairs are manual dialog annotations availablein the AMI corpus.it to the baseline which has comparable accuracy,namely Distribution, we see that our system im-proves in f-measure by 24 percentage points.Our results are encouraging - even using simplefeatures to capture target relations achieves consid-erable improvement over the baselines.
However,there is much room for improvement.
Using moredetailed target and discourse information promisesto further improve system performance.
These areavenues for future work.6 Related workEvidence from the surrounding context has beenused previously to determine if the current sen-tence should be subjective/objective (Riloff et al,2003; Pang and Lee, 2004) and adjacency pair in-formation has been used to predict congressionalvotes (Thomas et al, 2006).
However, these meth-ods do not explicitly model the relations betweenopinions.
An application of the idea of alterna-tive targets can be seen in Kim and Hovy?s (2007)work on election prediction.
They assume that ifa speaker expresses support for one party, all men-tions of the competing parties have negative po-larity, thus creating automatically labeled trainingdata.In the field of product review mining, sentimentsand features (aspects) have been mined (Popescuand Etzioni, 2005), where the aspects correspondto our definition of targets.
However, the aspectsthemselves are not related to each other in anyfashion.Polanyi and Zaenen (2006), in their discussionon contextual valence shifters, have also observedthe phenomena described in this work - namelythat a central topic may be divided into subtopicsin order to perform evaluations, and that discoursestructure can influence the overall interpretation ofvalence.
Snyder and Barzilay (2007) combine anagreement model based on contrastive RST rela-tions with a local aspect model to make a moreinformed overall decision for sentiment classifi-cation.
In our scheme, their aspects would berelated as same and their high contrast relationswould correspond to the non-reinforcing framesSPSNsame, SNSPsame.
Additionally, our framerelations would link the sentiments across non-adjacent clauses, and make connections via alt tar-get relations.With regard to meetings, the most closely re-lated work includes the dialog-related annotation807schemes for various available corpora of conver-sation (e.g., Carletta et al (2005) for AMI).
Asshown by Somasundaran et al (2007), dialogstructure information and opinions are in fact com-plementary.
We believe that, like the discourserelations, the dialog information will additionallyhelp in arriving at an overall coherent interpreta-tion.7 ConclusionsIn this paper, we described the idea of opin-ion frames as a representation capturing discourselevel relations that arise from related opinion tar-gets and which are common in task-oriented di-alogs.
We introduced the alternative relations thathold between targets by virtue of being opposingin the discourse context.
We discussed how ouropinion-frame scheme and discourse relations gohand in hand to provide a richer overall interpreta-tion.
We also illustrated that such discourse levelopinion associations have useful benefits, namelythey help gather more opinion information andhelp interdependent interpretation.
Finally, weshowed via our machine learning experiments thatthe presence of opinion frames can be automati-cally detected.ReferencesCarletta, J., S. Ashby, S. Bourban, M. Flynn,M.
Guillemot, T. Hain, J. Kadlec, V. Karaiskos,W.
Kraaij, M. Kronenthal, G. Lathoud, M. Lincoln,A.
Lisowska, I. McCowan, W. Post, D. Reidsma, andP.
Wellner.
2005.
The AMI Meetings Corpus.
InProceedings of Measuring Behavior Symposium on?Annotating and measuring Meeting Behavior?.Clark, H. H. 1975.
Bridging.
Theoretical issues innatural language processing .
New York: ACM.Hobbs, J., M. Stickel, D. Appelt, and P. Martin.
1993.Interpretation as abduction.
AI, 63.Joachims, T. 2005.
A support vector method for multi-variate performance measures.
In ICML 2005.Kim, Soo-Min and Eduard Hovy.
2007.
Crystal: An-alyzing predictive opinions on the web.
In EMNLP-CoNLL 2007.Mueller, C. and M. Strube.
2001.
Annotatinganaphoric and bridging relations with mmax.
In 2ndSIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue.Pang, B. and L. Lee.
2004.
A sentimental education:Sentiment analysis using subjectivity summarizationbased on minimum cuts.
In ACl 2004.Polanyi, L. and A. Zaenen, 2006.
Contextual ValenceShifters, chapter 1.
Computing Attitude and Affectin Text: Theory and Applications.
Springer.Popescu, A.-M. and O. Etzioni.
2005.
Extracting prod-uct features and opinions from reviews.
In HLT-EMNLP 2005.Prasad, R., E. Miltsakaki, N. Dinesh, A. Lee, A. Joshi,L.
Robaldo, and B. Webber, 2007.
PDTB 2.0 Anno-tation Manual.Riloff, E., J. Wiebe, and T. Wilson.
2003.
Learningsubjective nouns using extraction pattern bootstrap-ping.
In CoNLL 2003.Snyder, B. and R. Barzilay.
2007.
Multiple aspectranking using the good grief algorithm.
In HLT2007: NAACL.Somasundaran, S., J. Ruppenhofer, and J. Wiebe.
2007.Detecting arguing and sentiment in meetings.
InSIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue 2007.Somasundaran, S, J Ruppenhofer, and J Wiebe.
2008.Discourse level opinion relations: An annotationstudy.
In SIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Di-alogue.
ACL.Thomas, M., B. Pang, and L. Lee.
2006.
Get out thevote: Determining support or opposition from con-gressional floor-debate transcripts.
In EMNLP 2006.Vieira, R. and M. Poesio.
2000.
An empirically basedsystem for processing definite descriptions.
Comput.Linguist., 26(4).Wilson, T. and J. Wiebe.
2005.
Annotating attributionsand private states.
In Proceedings of ACL Workshopon Frontiers in Corpus Annotation II: Pie in the Sky.808
