Coling 2008: Companion volume ?
Posters and Demonstrations, pages 169?172Manchester, August 2008Multilingual Assistant for Medical Diagnosing and Drug PrescriptionBased on Category RankingFernando Ruiz-RicoUniversity of Alicantefrr@alu.ua.esJose-Luis VicedoUniversity of Alicantevicedo@dlsi.ua.esMar?
?a-Consuelo Rubio-Sa?nchezUniversity of Alicantemcrs7@alu.ua.esAbstractThis paper presents a real-world applica-tion for assisting medical diagnosis anddrug prescription, which relies on theexclusive use of machine learning tech-niques.
We have automatically processedan extensive biomedical literature to traina categorization algorithm in order to pro-vide it with the capability of matchingsymptoms to MeSH descriptors.
To in-teract with the classifier, we have devel-oped a multilingual web interface so thatprofessionals in medicine can easily getsome help in their decisions about di-agnoses (lookfordiagnosis.com) and pre-scriptions (lookfortherapy.com).
We alsodemonstrate the effectiveness of this ap-proach with a test set containing severalhundreds of real clinical histories.1 IntroductionText categorization consists of automatically as-signing documents to pre-defined classes.
It hasbeen extensively applied to many fields and in par-ticular, some efforts have been focused on MED-LINE abstracts classification (Ibushi and Tsujii,1999).
However, as far as we are concerned, ithas never been used to assist multilingual medicaldiagnosing and drug prescription by using the tex-tual information provided by biomedical literaturetogether with patient histories.Every year, thousands of documents are addedto the National Library of Medicine and the Na-c?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative CommonsAttribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unported li-cense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).Some rights reserved.tional Institutes of Health databases1 .
Most ofthem have been manually indexed by assigningeach document to one or several entries in a con-trolled vocabulary called MeSH2 (Medical SubjectHeadings).
The MeSH tree is a hierarchical struc-ture of medical terms which are used to define themain subjects that a medical article or report isabout.
Due to the wide use of this terminology, wecan find translations into several languages such asPortuguese and Spanish (i.e.
DeCS3 - Health Sci-ence Descriptors).
This paper focuses on both thediseases sub-tree (from C01 to C23) and drugs sub-tree (from D01 to D20).
The first one defines on itsown more than 4,000 pathological states, and alsooffers the chance to search for documented case re-ports related to each of them.
The drugs sub-treeprovides the capability of arranging around 8,000active principles, which can be directly matched tocommercial drugs.Our proposal tries to estimate a ranked list of di-agnoses and possible prescriptions from a patienthistory.
To tackle this problem, we have selectedan existing categorization algorithm, and we havetrained it using the textual information providedby lots of previously reported cases and labora-tory findings.
This way, a detailed symptomaticdescription is sufficient to obtain a list of possiblediseases and prescriptions, along with an estima-tion of probabilities and bibliography.We have not used binary decisions from binarycategorization methods, since they might leavesome interesting MeSH entries out, which shouldprobably be taken into consideration.
Instead, wehave chosen a category ranking algorithm to obtainan ordered list of all possible diagnoses and pre-1http://www.pubmed.gov2http://www.nlm.nih.gov/mesh3http://decs.bvs.br/I/homepagei.htm169scriptions so that the user can finally decide whichof them better suits the clinical history.In this paper, first of all, we will explain the waywe have developed our experiments, including afull description of the sources and methods used toget both training and test data.
Secondly, we willprovide an example of a patient history and boththe expected and provided diagnoses.
We will alsoshow the suggested drugs recommended by the al-gorithm for a common disease.
And we will finishby showing and commenting several evaluation re-sults on.2 Procedures2.1 Medical DiagnosisWe have extracted the training data from thePubMed database1 by selecting every case re-ports on diseases written in English including ab-stract and related to human beings.
These docu-ments were extracted by using the ?diseases cat-egory[MAJR]?
query, where [MAJR] stands for?MeSH Major Topic?, asking the system for re-trieving only documents whose subject is mainly adisease.
The query provided us with 483,726 doc-uments4 leading us to 4,024 classes with at leastone training sample each.With respect to the test set, we have used 400medical histories from the School of Medicineof the University of Pittsburgh (Department ofPathology5).
Although, so far the web page con-tains more than 500 histories4, not all of them aresuitable for our purposes.
There are some whichdo not provide a concrete diagnosis but only a dis-cussion about the case, and some others do nothave a direct matching to the MeSH tree.
Wehave used from each document both the title andall the clinical history, including radiological find-ings, gross and microscopic descriptions, etc.
Toget the expected output, we extracted the top levelMeSH diseases categories corresponding to the di-agnoses given on the titles of the ?final diagnosis?files (dx.html).As the ranking algorithm, we have chosen theSum of Weights (SOW) approach (Ruiz-Rico etal., 2006), that is more suitable than the rest for itsefficiency, accuracy and incremental training ca-pacity.
Since medical databases are frequently up-dated and they also grow continuously, we havepreferred using a fast and unattended approach4Data obtained on February 14th 20075http://path.upmc.edu/casesthat lets us perform updates easily with no sub-stantial performance degradation after increment-ing the number of categories or training samples.The restrictive complexity of other classifiers suchas SVM could derivate to an intractable problem,as stated by (Ruch, 2005).To evaluate how worth our suggestion is, wehave measured accuracy through three commonranking performance measures (Ruiz-Rico et al,2006): Precision at recall = 0 (Pr=0), mean aver-age precision (AvgP) and Precision/Recall breakeven point (BEP).
Sometimes, only one diagno-sis is valid for a particular patient.
In these cases,Pr=0 let us quantify the mistaken answers, since itindicates the proportion of correct topics given atthe top ranked position.
To know about the qual-ity of the full ranking list, we use the AvgP, sinceit goes down the arranged list averaging precisionuntil all possible answers are covered.
BEP is thevalue where precision equals recall, that is, whenwe consider the maximum number of relevant top-ics as a threshold.
To follow the same procedure as(Joachims, 1998), the performance evaluation hasbeen computed over the top diseases level.2.2 Drug PrescriptionMultilingual drug prescription can be achievedthrough the international active principles, whichare the constituents of drugs on which the charac-teristic therapeutic action of the substance largelydepends.
The appropriate nomenclature for the ac-tive principles can be found translated to severallanguages from MeSH, and can lead to the finalcommercial medicaments in most of the countriesaround the world.To train the algorithm for this new purpose, wehave launched the following query to the PubMeddatabase:(?Plant Families and Groups?
[majr] OR ?InorganicChemicals?
[majr] OR ?Organic Chemicals?
[majr] OR?Heterocyclic Compounds?
[majr] OR ?Polycyclic Com-pounds?
[majr] OR ?Macromolecular Substances?
[majr]OR ?Hormones, Hormone Substitutes, and Hormone An-tagonists?
[majr] OR ?Enzymes and Coenzymes?
[majr] OR?Carbohydrates?
OR ?Lipids?
[majr] OR ?Amino Acids, Pep-tides, and Proteins?
[majr] OR ?Nucleic Acids, Nucleotides,and Nucleosides?
[majr] OR ?Complex Mixtures?
[majr])AND ?therapeutic use?
[sh] NOT (?adverse effects?
[sh] OR?contraindications?
[sh] OR ?poisoning?
[sh] OR ?radiationeffects?
[sh] OR ?toxicity?
[sh])After filtering only articles written in Englishwhich have abstract, a total amount of 540,2354training documents are left.170Figure 1: Example of the first level of a hierarchical diagnosis2.3 Multilingual EnvironmentSince all training data is written in English, ev-ery symptom provided to the algorithm must alsobe written in English.
For this purpose, an au-tomatic translation tool is used for input data inother languages than English.
We also promote thetranslation by using the MeSH vocabulary, whichhas been delivered by human experts, and pro-vides a reliable correspondence of thousands ofnon phrases in many language pairs.
Althoughthe automatic translation method is not accurateenough for natural speaking, it may be capableof giving quite good results for independent nounphrases (Ruiz-Rico et al, 2006), which are thepieces of information the ranking algorithm uses.2.4 Availability and RequirementsNo special hardware nor software is neces-sary to interact with the assistant.
Just anInternet connection and a standard browserare enough to access on-line through the fol-lowing sites: www.lookfordiagnosis.com andwww.lookfortherapy.com.By using a web interface and by presenting re-sults in text format, we allow users to access frommany types of portable devices (laptops, PDA?s,etc.).
Moreover, they will always have availablethe latest version, with no need of installing spe-cific applications nor software updates.3 A Couple of Examples3.1 Medical DiagnosisOne of the 400 histories included in the test setlooks as follows:Case 177 ?
Headaches, Lethargy and a Sel-lar/Suprasellar MassA 16 year old female presented with two monthsof progressively worsening headaches, lethargyand visual disturbances.
Her past medical his-tory included developmental delay, shunted hydro-cephalus, and tethered cord release ...The final diagnosis expected for this clinical his-tory is: ?Rathke?s Cleft Cyst?, which is a syn-Figure 2: Output example after manual expansion of highranked topics (up) and by selecting the flat diagnosis mode(down)rheumatoid arthritisFigure 3: Example of the drug prescription suggestions forrheumatoid arthritis (up) and the final medicament (down)found through the drugs link provided by the assistant.171onym of the preferred term ?Central Nervous Sys-tem Cysts?.
Translating this into one or severalof the 23 top MeSH diseases categories we areled to the following entries: ?Neoplasms?, ?Ner-vous System Diseases?
and ?Congenital, Heredi-tary, and Neonatal Diseases and Abnormalities?.In hierarchical mode, our approach provides au-tomatically a first categorization level with ex-panding possibilities as shown in figure 1.
We pro-vide navigation capabilities to allow the user to godown the tree by selecting different branches, de-pending on the given probabilities and his/her owncriteria.
Moreover, a flat diagnosis mode can beactivated to directly obtain a ranked list of all dis-eases, as shown on the lower part of figure 2.After an individual evaluation of this case, wehave obtained the following values: Pr=0 = 1,AvgP= 0.92, and BEP= 0.67, since the right top-ics in figure 1 are given at positions 1, 2 and 4.3.2 Drug PrescriptionAs an example for drug prescription, figure 3shows the suggestions that the ranking algorithmprovides for rheumatoid arthritis, where the userobtains a ranked list of active principles.
Fi-nally, we reach the name of one of the possiblemedicaments containing the selected active princi-ple, along with particular recommendations frompharmacists (secondary effects, etc).4 ResultsLast row in table 1 shows the performance mea-sures calculated for each medical history and itsdiagnosis, averaged afterwards across all the 400decisions.
Pr=0 indicates that we get 69% of thehistories correctly diagnosed with the top rankedMeSH entry.
AvgP value means that the rest of thelist also contains quite valid topics, since it reachesa value of 73%.First row in table 1 provides a comparison be-tween SVM (Joachims, 1998) and sum of weights(Ruiz-Rico et al, 2006) algorithms using the wellknown OHSUMED evaluation benchmark.
Evenusing a training and test set containing differentdocument types, BEP indicates that the perfor-mance is not far away from that achieved in textclassification tasks, meaning that category rankingcan also be effectively applied to our scenario.Regarding drug prescription tests, we are stillworking under the evaluation process, colaborat-ing with companies such as CMPMedica, whichTable 1: Averaged performance for both text categorizationand diagnosisCorpus Algor.
Pr=0 AvgP BEPOHSUMED SVM - - 0.66SOW - - 0.71Case reports andpatient histories SOW 0.69 0.73 0.62is in charge of many sites containing drug com-pendiums (vademecum.es, vidal.fr, cddata.co.uk,etc.).
We have already performed preliminary testsby using the symptoms and diseases in the MeSHtree as the input data, and an arranged list of activeprinciples as the output data.
We have reached anAvgP around 0.9.5 Conclusions and Further WorkWe believe that category ranking algorithms mayhelp in multilingual medical diagnosing and drugprescription from clinical histories.
Although theoutput of the categorization process should not bedirectly taken as a medical advice, the accuracyachieved could be good enough to assist human ex-perts.
However, due to the large amount of new ar-ticles continuously added to biomedical literature,it becomes quite difficult for a practitioner to keepup to date.
Further works are focused on providingbibliographic references for each suggestion of theclassifier.
We pretend to select from the PubMeddatabase those entries most related to the patholog-ical states entered by the user.ReferencesIbushi, Katsutoshi, Collier-Nigel and Jun?ichi Tsujii.1999.
Classification of medline abstracts.
GenomeInformatics, volume 10, pages 290?291.Joachims, Thorsten.
1998.
Text categorization withsupport vector machines: learning with many rel-evant features.
In Proceedings of ECML-98, 10thEuropean Conference on Machine Learning, pages137?142.Ruch, Patrick.
2005.
Automatic assignment ofbiomedical categories: toward a generic approach.Bioinformatics, volume 22 no.
6 2006, pages 658?664.Ruiz-Rico, Fernando, Jose Luis Vicedo, and Mar?
?a-Consuelo Rubio-Sa?nchez.
2006.
Newpar: an au-tomatic feature selection and weighting schema forcategory ranking.
In Proceedings of DocEng-06, 6thACM symposium on Document engineering, pages128?137.172
