Coling 2008: Companion volume ?
Posters and Demonstrations, pages 83?86Manchester, August 2008A Language-Independent Approach toKeyphrase Extraction and EvaluationMari-Sanna Paukkeri, Ilari T. Nieminen, Matti Po?lla?
and Timo HonkelaAdaptive Informatics Research Centre, Helsinki University of Technologyfirst.last@tkk.fiAbstractWe present Likey, a language-independentkeyphrase extraction method based on sta-tistical analysis and the use of a referencecorpus.
Likey has a very light-weight pre-processing phase and no parameters to betuned.
Thus, it is not restricted to any sin-gle language or language family.
We testLikey having exactly the same configura-tion with 11 European languages.
Further-more, we present an automatic evaluationmethod based on Wikipedia intra-linking.1 IntroductionKeyphrase generation is an approach to collect themain topics of a document into a list of phrases.The methods for automatic keyphrase generationcan be divided into two groups: keyphrase assign-ment and keyphrase extraction (Frank et al, 1999).In keyphrase assignment, all potential keyphrasesappear in a predefined vocabulary and the task is toclassify documents to different keyphrase classes.In keyphrase extraction, keyphrases are supposedto be available in the processed documents them-selves, and the aim is to extract these most mean-ingful words and phrases from the documents.Most of the traditional methods for keyphraseextraction are highly dependent on the languageused and the need for preprocessing is extensive,e.g.
including part-of-speech tagging, stemming,and use of stop word lists and other language-dependent filters.c?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative CommonsAttribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unported li-cense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).Some rights reserved.1.1 Related WorkIn the statistical keyphrase extraction, many vari-ations for term frequency counts have beenproposed in the literature including relativefrequencies (Damerau, 1993), collection fre-quency (Hulth, 2003), term frequency?inversedocument frequency (tf.idf) (Salton and Buck-ley, 1988), among others.
Additional fea-tures to frequency that have been experimentedare e.g.
relative position of the first occur-rence of the term (Frank et al, 1999), impor-tance of the sentence in which the term oc-curs (HaCohen-Kerner, 2003), and widely stud-ied part-of-speech tag patterns, e.g.
Hulth (2003).Matsuo and Ishizuka (2004) present keyword ex-traction method using word co-occurrence statis-tical information.
Most of the presented methodsneed a reference corpus or a training corpus to pro-duce keyphrases.
The reference corpus acts as asample of general language, whereas the trainingcorpus is used to tune the parameters of the sys-tem.Statistical keyphrase extraction methods with-out reference corpora have also been proposed,e.g.
(Matsuo and Ishizuka, 2004; Bracewell et al,2005).
The later study is carried out for bilingualcorpus.1.2 Reference CorporaThe reference corpus of natural language pro-cessing systems acts as a sample of general lan-guage.
The corpus should be as large as possi-ble to get sufficiently many examples of languageuse.
In our study, we used the Europarl corpus thatconsists of transcriptions of European Parliamentspeeches in eleven European languages, includ-ing four Romance languages (Spanish, French,Italian and Portuguese), five Germanic languages83(Danish, German, English, Dutch and Swedish),Finnish and Greek (Koehn, 2005).
The numberof words in the corpora is between 23 million inFinnish and 38 million in French, while the num-ber of word types differs from 98 thousand in En-glish to 563 thousand in Finnish.2 The Likey MethodWe present a keyphrase extraction method Likeythat is an extension of Damerau?s method (Honkelaet al, 2007).
In Damerau?s (1993) method, termsare ranked according to the likelihood ratio and thetop m terms are used as index terms.
Both sin-gle words and bigrams are considered to be terms.Likey produces keyphrases using relative ranksof n-gram frequencies.
It is a simple language-independent method: The only language-specificcomponent is a reference corpus in the correspond-ing language.
Likey keyphrases may be singlewords as well as longer phrases.The preprocessing phase of Likey consists of ex-traction of the main text body without captions offigures and tables, and removing special characters(except for some hyphens and commas).
Numbersare replaced with <NUM> tags.An integer rank value is assigned to each phraseaccording to its frequency of occurrence, wherethe most frequent phrase has rank value one andphrases with the same frequency are assigned thesame rank.
Rank values rankaand rankrare cal-culated from the text and the reference corpus, re-spectively, for each phrase.
Rank order rank is cal-culated separately for each phrase length n. Thuswe get ranks from unity to max rank for each n.This way n-gram frequencies for n ?
2 are scaledto follow approximately the same distribution as1-grams in the corpus.
The ratioratio =rankarankr(1)of ranks is used to compare the phrases.In highly inflective languages, such as Finnish,and languages with frequent word concatenation,such as German, many of the phrases occurring inthe analysed document do not occur in the refer-ence corpus.
Thus, their ratio value is related tothe maximum rank value, according to Eq.
2,ratio =rankamax rankr+ 1(2)where max rankris the maximum rank in the ref-erence corpus.
The ratios are sorted in increasingorder and the phrases with the lowest ratios are se-lected as the extracted keyphrases.
Phrases occur-ring only once in the document cannot be selectedas keyphrases.3 EvaluationThe most straightforward way to evaluate the ex-tracted keyphrases is to first decide which phrasesare appropriate to the document and then calculatehow many of the extracted keyphrases belong tothe appropriate phrases set, e.g.
by using precisionand recall measures.There are two widely used approaches for defin-ing the appropriate phrases for a document.
Thefirst method is to use human evaluators for rat-ing extracted keyphrases.
The other approach is toanalyse documents that have author-provided key-word lists.
Each document has a list of keyphraseswhich are easy to accept to be correct.
Anyway,automated keyphrase extraction methods are usu-ally poor in predicting author-provided keyphrasessince many of the provided phrases do not existin the document at all but they are sort of super-concepts.3.1 Multilingual ApproachIn our framework, there are keyphrases in 11languages to be evaluated.
Due to many prob-lems related to human evaluation in such a con-text, we needed a new way of evaluating the re-sults of our language-independent keyphrase ex-traction method.
We took our evaluation data fromWikipedia, a free multilingual online encyclope-dia.1 We present a novel way to use Wikipedia ar-ticles in evaluation of a multilingual keyphrase ex-traction method.
Wikipedia corpus has lately beenused as a resource for automatic keyword extrac-tion for English (Mihalcea and Csomai, 2007) aswell as to many other tasks.We suppose that those articles which are linkedfrom the article at hand and which link back to thearticle, are potential keyphrases of the article.
Forexample, a Wikipedia article about some conceptmay link to its higher-level concept.
Likewise, thehigher-level concept may list all concepts includ-ing to the group.3.2 Evaluation DataFinding Wikipedia articles of adequate extent in allthe languages is quite challenging, basically due1http://wikipedia.org84to generally quite short articles in Greek, Finnishand Danish.
We gathered 10 articles that have suf-ficient amount of content in each of the 11 Eu-roparl languages.
These 110 selected Wikipediaarticles were collected in March 2008 and their En-glish names are Beer, Cell (biology), Che Guevara,Leonardo da Vinci, Linux, Paul the Apostle, Sun,Thailand, Vietnam War, and Wolfgang AmadeusMozart.The average lengths of articles in Finnish, Dutchand Swedish are below 2 000 words, the lengthsof articles in Portuguese, Greek and Danish arearound 3 000 words and the rest are between 5 000and 7 000 words.
The normalised lengths wouldswitch the order of the languages slightly.Among the 67 links extracted from the En-glish Wikipedia article Cell include phrases suchas adenosine triphosphate, amino acid, anabolism,archaea, bacteria, binary fission, cell division, cellenvelope, cell membrane, and cell nucleus.
Theextracted links serve as evaluation keyphrases forthe article.4 ResultsIn our study, we extracted keyphrases of lengthn = 1 .
.
.
4 words.
Longer phrases thanfour words did not occur in the keyphrase listin our preliminary tests.
As a baseline, thestate-of-the-art keyphrase extraction method tf.idfkeyphrases were extracted from the same material.Tf.idf (Salton and Buckley, 1988) is another sim-ple and non-parameterized language-independentmethod that can be used for keyphrase extraction.For tf.idf we split the Europarl reference corporain ?documents?
of 100 sentences and used the samepreprocessing that for Likey.
To remove uninterest-ing tf.idf-produced phrases like of the cell, a Likey-like post processing was tried, and it gave slightlybetter results.
Thus the post processing is used forall the reported results of tf.idf.Generally, Likey produces longer phrases thantf.idf.
Each keyphrase list characterises the topicquite well, and most of the extracted keyphrasesrecur in every language.
Both methods extracted aFrench word re that is frequently used in the articleas an acronym for re?ticulum endoplasmique.
Thesame word in Dutch is extracted by tf.idf in a formendoplasmatisch reticulum er.We compared our Likey keyphrase extractionmethod to the baseline method tf.idf by calculat-ing precision and recall measures according to theWikipedia-based evaluation keyphrases for bothmethods.
We extracted 60 keyphrases from eachdocument for the first evaluation round and thenumber of keyphrases available in the evaluationkeyphrase list for the document for the secondevaluation round.
Precision and recall values ofboth Likey and tf.idf evaluated with Wikipediaintra-links are comparatively low (Table 1) but onehas to take into account the nature of the evalua-tion set with notably varying number of ?correctkeyphrases?.60 keyphrases N keyphrasesMethod Prec.
Recall Prec.
RecallLikey 0.1475 0.2470 0.1795 0.1795tf.idf 0.1225 0.2203 0.1375 0.1375tf.idf + p 0.1343 0.2341 0.1622 0.1622Table 1: Average precisions and recalls for Likey,tf.idf and tf.idf with post processing (p).
Nkeyphrases refers to the amount of evaluationkeyphrases available for each article.The obtained precisions and recalls of thefirst evaluation differed significantly between lan-guages.
In Figure 1, the precision and recall ofLikey and tf.idf with post processing for each lan-guage is given.
Within the 11 European languages,English and German performed best according tothe precision (Likey: 23.0% and 22.8%, respec-tively), but not that well according to the recall,where best performed Dutch and Greek (Likey:33.4% and 31.8%, respectively).5 Conclusions and DiscussionIn this paper, we have introduced Likey, a sta-tistical keyphrase extraction method that is ableto analyse texts independently of the language inquestion.
In the experiments, we have focusedon European languages among which Greek andFinnish differ considerably from Romance andGermanic languages.
Regardless of these differ-ences, the method gave comparable results foreach language.The method enables independence from thelanguage being analysed.
It is possible to ex-tract keyphrases from text in previously un-known language provided that a suitable refer-ence corpus is available.
The method includesonly lightweight preprocessing, and no auxil-iary language-dependent methods such as part-of-speech tagging are required.
No particular param-85el da fi sv nl pt es it de fr en00.050.10.150.20.250.30.350.40.450.5Likeytf.idfel da fi sv nl pt es it de fr en00.050.10.150.20.250.30.350.40.450.5Figure 1: Average precisions (left-hand side) and recalls (right-hand side) of Likey and tf.idf with postprocessing for each language.
The number of extracted keyphrases is 60.eter tuning is needed either.
A web-based demon-stration of Likey is available at http://cog.hut.fi/likeydemo/ as well as more detailed infor-mation on the method.
The system highlightskeyphrases of a document written in one of elevenlanguages.Future research includes an extension of Likey inwhich unsupervised detection of morphologicallymotivated intra-word boundaries (Creutz, 2006) isused.
This extension could also handle languagesthat have no white space between words.
We alsoplan to apply the method within statistical ma-chine translation.
A methodological comparisonof keyphrase-based dimension reduction and e.g.PCA will also be conducted.AcknowledgementsThis work was supported by the Academy of Fin-land through the Adaptive Informatics ResearchCentre that is a part of the Finnish Centre of Ex-cellence Programme.
We warmly thank JaakkoJ.
Va?yrynen and Sami Hanhija?rvi for their usefulcomments and ideas.ReferencesBracewell, David B., Fuji Ren, and Shingo Kuriowa.2005.
Multilingual single document keyword ex-traction for information retrieval.
In Proceedings ofNLP-KE?05.Creutz, Mathias.
2006.
Induction of the Morphol-ogy of Natural Language: Unsupervised MorphemeSegmentation with Application to Automatic SpeechRecognition.
Ph.D. thesis, Helsinki University ofTechnology.Damerau, Fred.
1993.
Generating and evaluatingdomain-oriented multi-word terms from text.
In-formation Processing and Management, 29(4):433?447.Frank, Eibe, Gordon W. Paynter, Ian H. Witten, CarlGutwin, and Craig G. Nevill-Manning.
1999.Domain-specific keyphrase extraction.
In Proceed-ings of IJCAI?99, pages 668?673.HaCohen-Kerner, Yaakov.
2003.
Automatic extrac-tion of keywords from abstracts.
In Palade, V., R.J.Howlett, and L.C.
Jain, editors, KES 2003, LNAI2773, pages 843?849.
Springer-Verlag.Honkela, Timo, Matti Po?lla?, Mari-Sanna Paukkeri, IlariNieminen, and Jaakko J. Va?yrynen.
2007.
Termi-nology extraction based on reference corpora.
Tech-nical Report E12, Helsinki University of Technol-ogy, Laboratory of Computer and Information Sci-ence, Espoo.
Unpublished.Hulth, Anette.
2003.
Improved automatic keyword ex-traction given more linguistic knowledge.
In Pro-ceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods inNatural Language Processing, pages 216?223.Koehn, Philipp.
2005.
Europarl: A parallel corpus forstatistical machine translation.
In MT Summit 2005.Matsuo, Yutaka and Mitsuru Ishizuka.
2004.
Keywordextraction from a single document using word co-occurrence statistical information.
Int?l Journal onArtificial Intelligence Tools, 13(1):157?169.Mihalcea, Rada and Andras Csomai.
2007.
Wikify!
:linking documents to encyclopedic knowledge.
InCIKM ?07: Proceedings of the sixteenth ACM con-ference on Conference on information and knowl-edge management, pages 233?242, New York, NY,USA.
ACM.Salton, G. and C. Buckley.
1988.
Term weightingapproaches in automatic text retrieval.
InformationProcessing and Management, 24(5):513?523.86
