Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2008), pages 1025?1032Manchester, August 2008Switching to Real-Time Tasks in Multi-Tasking DialogueFan Yang and Peter A. HeemanCenter for Spoken Language UnderstandingOGI School of Science & EngineeringOregon Health & Science Universityfly,heeman@cslu.ogi.eduAndrew KunElectrical and Computer EngineeringUniversity of New Hampshireandrew.kun@unh.eduAbstractIn this paper we describe an empiricalstudy of human-human multi-tasking dia-logues (MTD), where people perform mul-tiple verbal tasks overlapped in time.
Weexamined how conversants switch from theongoing task to a real-time task.
We foundthat 1) conversants use discourse markersand prosodic cues to signal task switch-ing, similar to how they signal topic shiftsin single-tasking speech; 2) conversantsstrive to switch tasks at a less disruptiveplace; and 3) where they cannot, they ex-ert additional effort (even higher pitch) tosignal the task switching.
Our machinelearning experiment also shows that taskswitching can be reliably recognized usingdiscourse context and normalized pitch.These findings will provide guidelines forbuilding future speech interfaces to sup-port multi-tasking dialogue.1 IntroductionExisting speech interfaces have mostly been usedto perform a single task.
However, we envisionthat next-generation speech interfaces will be ableto work with the user on multiple tasks at the sametime, which is especially useful for real-time tasks.For instance, a driver in a car might use a speechinterface to catch up on emails, while occasionallychecking upcoming traffic conditions, and receiv-ing navigation instructions.Several speech interfaces that allow multi-tasking dialogues have been built (Lemon et al,2002; Kun et al, 2004).
However, these interfacesc?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative CommonsAttribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unported li-cense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).Some rights reserved.freely switch between different tasks without muchsignaling.
Thus the user might be confused aboutwhich task the interface is talking about.
Multi-tasking dialogues, even in the best circumstances,will be difficult for users, as users need to remem-ber the details of each task and be aware of taskswitching.In order to build a speech interface that supportsmulti-tasking dialogue, there needs to be a set ofconventions for the user and the interface to followin switching between tasks.
To design such a set,we propose to start with conventions that are ac-tually used in human-human conversations, whichare natural for users to follow and probably effi-cient in problem-solving.
Multi-tasking dialogues,where multiple independent topics overlap witheach other in time, regularly arise in human-humanconversation: for example, a driver and a navigatorin a car might be talking about their summer plans,while occasionally interjecting road directions orconversation about what music to listen to.In order to better understand the human con-ventions on task switching, we have collected theMTD corpus (Heeman et al, 2005), which consistsof a set of human-human dialogues where pairs ofconversants have multiple overlapping verbal tasksto perform: an ongoing task that takes a long timeto finish, and a real-time task that can be done ina couple of turns but has a time constraint.
Thispaper is focused on how conversants switch fromthe ongoing task to a waiting real-time task.Previous research suggested the correlation be-tween task switching and certain discourse con-text; for example, conversants try to avoid taskswitching in the middle of an adjacency pair (Shy-rokov et al, 2007).
In a preliminary study (Hee-man et al, 2005), we examined the timing whenconversants switched from the ongoing task to areal-time task using some pilot data, and found that1025conversants did not always switch to a real-timetask as soon as it arose, but instead waited for dif-ferent amounts of time depending on its time con-straint.
In this study, we hypothesize that conver-sants strive to switch at an opportune place in theongoing task, and we examine the discourse con-text where task switching occurs for evidence tosupport this hypothesis.We are also interested in the cues that conver-sants use to signal task switching.
Although thereis a substantial body of research on how peoplesignal topic shifts in single-tasking speech (mono-logue and dialogue), such as using discourse mark-ers and prosodic cues (see Section 2.2), little re-search work has been done in investigating taskswitching in multi-tasking dialogues.
In this study,we examine discourse markers and prosodic cuesfor their correlations with task switching.
We alsoexamine combining these cues to recognize taskswitching with machine learning techniques.In Section 2, we review related literature.
InSection 3, we describe the MTD corpus.
In Sec-tion 4, we examine the discourse contexts in whichtask switching occurs.
In Section 5, we examinethe use of discourse markers and prosody associ-ated with task switching.
In Section 6, we exam-ine automatic recognizing task switching with ma-chine learning techniques.
We conclude the paperin Section 7.2 Related ResearchIn this section, we first describe two existingspeech interfaces that allow multi-tasking dia-logues.
These speech interfaces, however, freelyswitch between tasks as soon as a new task arises,and without much signaling.
We then review lit-erature on how people signal topic shifts in single-tasking speech, which sheds light on our researchof signaling task switching in multi-tasking dia-logues.2.1 Speech Interfaces for MTDKun et al (2004) developed a system calledProject54, which allows a user to interact withmultiple devices in a police cruiser using speech.The architecture of Project54 allows for handlingmultiple tasks overlapped in time.
For example,when pulling over a vehicle, an officer can first is-sue a spoken command to turn on the lights andsiren, then issue spoken commands to initiate adata query, go back to interacting with the lightsand siren (perhaps to change the pattern after thevehicle has been pulled over), and finally receivethe spoken results of the data query.
While thecurrent implementation of Project54 assumes thatthe officer initiates the task switching (e.g.
theone about lights and the one about data query), thesystem can initiate task switching too.
However,Project54 does not provide infrastructure for sig-naling to the officer a system-initiated switch.
Anysuch signaling would have to be hand-coded by de-velopers.Lemon et al (2002) also explored multi-taskingin a dialogue system.
They built a multi-taskingdialogue system for a human operator to directa robotic helicopter on executing multiple tasks,such as searching for a car and flying to a tower.The system keeps an ordered set of active dialoguetasks, and interprets the user utterance in terms ofthe most active task for which the utterance makessense.
Conversely, during the system?s turn ofspeaking, it can produce an utterance for any ofthe dialogue tasks.
Thus the system does not takeinto account the user?s cost of task switching.
Thesystem switches to a new task as soon as it arises,instead of at an opportune place to minimize theuser?s effort.
Moreover, the system does not sig-nal when it switches between tasks.
As with theapproach of Kun et al (2004) to multiple devices,it is unclear whether an actual user will be able tounderstand such conversations.
The user might be-come confused about which task the system is on.2.2 Signaling Topic Shifts in STPAlthough speech interfaces have not used cues tosignal task switching, researchers have found vari-ous cues that people naturally use in single-taskingspeech to signal topic shifts.
These cues are a goodstarting point from which to study how people sig-nal task switching in multi-tasking dialogue.Signaling topic shifts in single-tasking speech isabout signaling the boundary of related discoursesegments that contribute to the achievement of atask.
Two types of cues have been identified forsignaling topic shifts.
The first type is discoursemarkers (Moser and Moore, 1995; Schiffrin, 1987;Grosz and Sidner, 1986; Passonneau and Litman,1997; Bangerter and Clark, 2003).
Discoursemarkers can be used to signal the start of a new dis-course segment and its relation to other discoursesegments.
For example, ?now?
might signal mov-ing on to the next topic, while ?well?
might signal1026a negative or unexpected response.The second type of cue is prosody.
In readspeech, Grosz and Hirschberg (1992) studiedbroadcast news and found that pause length is themost important factor that indicates a new dis-course segment.
Ayers (1992) found that pitchrange appears to correlate more closely with hi-erarchical topic structure in read speech than inspontaneous speech.
In spontaneous monologue,Butterworth (1972) found that the beginning of adiscourse segment exhibited slower speaking rate;Swerts (1995), and Passonneau and Litman (1997)found that pause length correlates with discoursesegment boundaries; Hirschberg and Nakatani(1996) found that the beginning of a discoursesegment correlates with higher pitch.
In human-human dialogue, similar behavior was observed:the pitch value tends to be higher for starting a newdiscourse segment (Nakajima and Allen, 1993).
Inhuman-computer dialogue, Swerts and Ostendorf(1995) found that the first utterance of a discoursesegment correlates with slower speaking rate andlonger preceding pause.
Clearly, prosody is usedto signal topic shifts in single-tasking speech.3 The MTD CorpusIn order to fully understand multi-tasking human-human dialogue, we collected the MTD corpus, inwhich pairs of subjects perform overlapping verbaltasks.
Details of the corpus collection can be foundin (Heeman et al, 2005).3.1 Design of TasksConversants work on two types of tasks via conver-sation: an on-going task that takes a long time tofinish and a real-time task that just takes a coupleturns to complete but has a time constraint.In the ongoing task, a pair of players work to-gether to form as many poker hands as possible,where a poker hand consists of a full house, flush,straight, or four of a kind.
Each player has threecards in hand, which the other cannot see (playersare separated so that they cannot see each other.
)Players take turns drawing an extra card and thendiscarding one, until they find a poker hand, forwhich they earn 50 points; they then start over toform another poker hand.
To discourage playersfrom simply rifling through the cards to look for aspecific card without talking, one point is deductedfor each picked-up card, and 10 points for a missedpoker hand or incorrect poker hand.
To completeFigure 1: The game display for playersthis game, players converse to share card informa-tion, explore and establish strategies based on thecombined cards in their hands (Toh et al, 2006).The poker game is played on computers.
Thegame display, which each player sees, is shown inFigure 1.
The player with four cards can click ona card to discard it.
The card disappears from thescreen, and an extra card is automatically dealt tothe other player.
The player with four cards clicksthe ?Done Poker Hand?
button to start a new gameonce they find a poker hand.From time to time, the computer generates aprompt for one player to find out whether the otherhas a certain picture on the bottom of the display.The picture game has a time constraint of 10, 25or 40 seconds, which is (pseudo) randomly deter-mined.
The players get 5 points for the picturegame if the correct answer is given in time.
Theoverall goal of the players is to earn as many pointsas possible from the two games.To alert the player to the picture game, twosolid bars flash above and below the player?s cards.Thus the player will know that there is a wait-ing picture game without taking the attention awayfrom the poker game.
The color of the flash-ing bars depends on how much time is remaining:green for 26-40 seconds, yellow for 11-25 seconds1027and red for 0-10 seconds.
The player can see theexact amount of time in the heading for the pic-ture game.
In Figure 1, the player needs to find outwhether the other has a blue circle, with 6 secondsleft.3.2 Corpus AnnotationsWe transcribed and annotated ten MTD dialoguestotaling about 150 minutes of conversation.
Thedialogues were by five pairs of players, all na-tive American-English speakers.
Each pair par-ticipated in two sessions and each session lastedabout 15 minutes.
During each session, 9 picturegames (3 for each time constraint) were promptedfor each player.
Of the total 180 picture gameprompted, 8 were never started by players1.
Thusthe corpus contains 172 picture games.The ongoing task can naturally be divided intoindividual poker games, in which the players suc-cessfully complete a poker hand.
Each poker gamecan be further divided into a sequence of card seg-ments, in which players discuss which card to dis-card, or a poker hand is found.
In total, there are105 game segments and 690 card segments in thecorpus.
As well, we grouped the utterances in-volved in each picture game into segments.
Fig-ure 2 shows an excerpt from an MTD dialoguewith these annotations.
Here b7 is a game segmentin which players got a poker hand of flush; andb8, b10, b11, b12 and b14, inside of b7, are cardsegments.
Also embedded in b7 are b9 and b13,each of which is an segment for a picture game.As can be seen, players switched from the ongo-ing poker-playing to a picture game.
After the pic-ture game was completed, the conversation on thepoker-playing resumed.4 Where to SwitchIn a preliminary study (Heeman et al, 2005), wefound that players did not always switch to a real-time task as soon as it arose, but instead waited fordifferent amounts of time depending on the timeconstraint of the real-time task.
We thus hypoth-esize that players strive to switch at an opportuneplace in the ongoing task (poker-playing).
Thereare three types of places where a player could sus-pend the poker playing and switch to a waitingpicture game: (G) immediately after completinga poker game (at the end of a game), (C) immedi-1Although in the post-experiment survey all players re-ported that they never ignored a picture game on purposeFigure 2: An excerpt of an MTD dialogueately after discarding a card (at the end of a card),and (E) embedded inside a card segment, whereplayers are deciding which card to discard.
In thissection, we examine where task switching occurs.4.1 Time Constraint and Place of SwitchingWe first examine the place of switching under dif-ferent time constraints.
As shown in Table 1, forthe time constraint of 10s, 75% of the task switch-ing was embedded inside a card segment, 23% atthe end of a card, and 2% at the end of a game;for the time constraints of 25s and 40s2, 46% em-bedded inside a card segment, 33% at the end of acard, and 21% at the end of a game.
The differencein the places of switching between the time con-straint of 10s and 25s/40s is statistically significant(?2(2) = 15.92, p < 0.001).
The time constraintof 10s requires players to start a picture game veryquickly in order to complete it in time.
On theother hand, when given 25s or 40s, players are ina less hurry to switch.
Compared with 10s, whenplayers had 25s or 40s, the percentage of switch-ing embedded inside a card segment decreases by29%, while at the end of a card increases by 10%,and at the end of a game increases by 19%.
Theseresults suggest that when given more time, playerstry to switch at the end of a game or a card.2We combined the time constraints of 25s and 40s because25s seemed to be sufficient for most players.1028Table 1: Time constraint and place of switchingE C G Total10s 42 (75%) 13 (23%) 1 (2%) 56 (100%)25/40s 54 (46%) 38 (33%) 24 (21%) 116 (100%)Table 2: Waiting time and place of switchingE C G Total?
3s 47 (69%) 18 (27%) 3 (4%) 68 (100%)> 3s 49 (47%) 33 (32%) 22 (21%) 104 (100%)4.2 Waiting Time and Place of SwitchingWe next examine the place of task switching fromthe perspective of waiting time.
Waiting timerefers to the time interval between when a pic-ture game is prompted to a player and when theplayer actually starts the picture game.
Our ques-tion is: if players wait at least a certain amountof time, where would they switch tasks?
We arbi-trary choose a time amount of 3 seconds.
We as-sume that when the waiting time is shorter than 3s,the player starts the picture game as soon as he orshe notices it without significant waiting; in otherwords, based on human reaction time, if playersare going to respond to it right away, they shouldbe able to do so within 3s.
The results are shownin Table 2.
When the waiting time is shorter than3s, 69% of the task switching is embedded insidea card segment, 27% at the end of a card, and only4% at the end of a game; when longer than 3s, 47%is embedded inside a card segment, 32% at the endof a card, and 21% at the end of a game.
The dif-ference in the places of switching is statisticallydifferent (?2(2) = 11.88, p = 0.003).
When thewaiting time is longer than 3s, the percentage ofswitching inside a card decreases by 22%, whileswitching at the end of a card increases by 5%, andat the end of a game increases by 17%.
These re-sults suggest that players wait for the end of a gameor a card to switch to a picture game.4.3 DiscussionWe examined the discourse context of task switch-ing, and found that 1) when given more time, play-ers intend to switch to a picture game at the end ofa (poker) game or a card; and (2) if players wait,they are waiting for the end of a (poker) game or acard to switch to a picture game.
These results sug-gest that players strive to switch to a picture gameat the end of a (poker) game or a card.In fact, we also observed that after a picturegame that is at the end of a game, players smoothlystart a new poker game as if nothing had hap-pened; after a picture game that is at the end of acard, players might sometimes remind each otherwhat cards they have in hands; while after a pic-ture game that is in the middle of a card segment,players might even repeat or clarify the previousutterances that were said before the interruption.It is thus reasonable to assume that switching em-bedded inside a card segment is the most disrup-tive, followed by at the end of a card, and at theend of a game is the least.
Our experiment resultshence suggest that players strive to switch to a real-time task at a less disruptive place in the ongoingtask.
This is consistent with Clark and Wilkes-Gibbs (1986), that conversants try to minimize col-laborative effort.5 How to SwitchIn Section 2.2, we discussed how people use cer-tain cues, such as discourse markers and prosody,to signal topic shifts in single-tasking speech.
Thissuggests that people might also signal task switch-ing in multi-tasking dialogues.
In this section, weexamine how players signal that they are switch-ing from the ongoing task to a real-time task withdiscourse markers and prosody.5.1 Task Switching and Discourse MarkersClose examination of the MTD corpus foundthat ?oh?
was the most frequently used discoursemarker when switching to a picture game.
An-other discourse marker, ?wait?
(including ?wait aminute?
), was often used together with ?oh?
in theway of ?oh wait?.
Thus we examined the use of?oh?
and ?wait?
in switching to a picture game.Players used the discourse markers ?oh?
or?wait?
14.5% (25/172) of the time in switching toa picture game.
In poker playing, 5.7% (238/4192)of utterances contain the words ?oh?
or ?wait?, andonly 4.6% (32/690) of card segments are initiatedwith the two discourse markers (i.e.
the first ut-terance of a card segment has ?oh?
or ?wait?
atthe very beginning).
Players have a statisticallyhigher percentage of using ?oh?
or ?wait?
at taskswitching than in poker playing (?2(1) = 22.89,p < 0.001) or to initiate a card segment (?2(1) =21.84, p < 0.001).5.2 Task Switching and ProsodyTo understand the prosodic cues in initiatinga topic, traditionally researchers compared the1029prosody of the first utterance in each segment withother utterances (e.g.
(Nakajima and Allen, 1993;Hirschberg and Nakatani, 1996)).
This approachencounters two problems here.
First, the words inan utterance might affect the prosody.
For exam-ple, the duration and energy of ?bat?
are usuallylarger than ?bit?.
Thus a large amount of data arerequired to balance out these differences.
Second,in the MTD corpus, players typically switch to apicture game by using a yes-no question, such as?do you have a blue circle?, while most forwardutterances (c.f.
Core and Allen 1997) in the ongo-ing task are statements or proposals.
As questionshave very different prosody than statements or pro-posals, a direct comparison is further biased.Examination of the MTD corpus found that 86%(148/172) of the picture games were initiated by?do you have ...?
with optional discourse markersat the beginning.
While in the poker game, playersused ?do you have ...?
108 times to ask whetherthe other had certain cards, such as ?do you have aqueen??
This observation inspired us to comparethe prosody of the phrase ?do you have?
in switch-ing to a picture game and during poker-playing.3This avoids comparing prosody of different wordsor of different types of utterances.We measure pitch, energy (local root meansquared measurement), and duration of each caseof ?do you have?.
We aggregate on each player andcalculate the average values.
The results are shownin Table 3.
The second and third columns show theaverage pitch of the phrase ?do you have?
for task-switching (SWT) and poker-playing (PKR) respec-tively.
When switching to a picture game, play-ers?
average pitch is statistically higher than poker-playing (t(9) = 4.15, p = 0.001).
In fact, for eachof the ten players, the average pitch of ?do youhave?
in switching to a picture game is higher thanin poker-playing.
These results show a strong cor-relation between task switching and higher pitch.We next examine the correlation between energyand task switching.
The fourth and fifth columns inTable 3 show the average energy of the phrase ?doyou have?
for task switching and poker-playing re-spectively.
We do not find a statistically significantdifference (t(9) = 0.80, p = 0.44).
We also exam-ine the duration of ?do you have?.
The sixth and3Note that most cases of ?do you have?
in poker-playingare not at the beginning of a card segment.
It would havealso been interesting to compare the prosody of ?do you have?of initiating a picture game and of initiating a card segment.However, we do not have enough data for the latter.Table 3: Average prosodic values for each playerPlayer pitch (Hz) energy duration (s)SWT PKR SWT PKR SWT PKR4A 136 123 383 266 0.28 0.384B 178 156 466 506 0.32 0.305A 164 152 357 367 0.37 0.255B 214 182 231 153 0.36 0.286A 144 126 414 370 0.32 0.216B 122 117 564 496 0.25 0.238A 238 199 973 1061 0.36 0.218B 150 143 246 180 0.33 0.359A 109 102 538 465 0.44 0.599B 125 122 702 814 0.33 0.24Table 4: Pitch (Hz) and place of switchingPlayer E C & G PKR4A 137 131 1234B 180 173 1565A 167 161 1525B 219 206 1826A 146 143 1266B 124 121 1178A 245 233 1998B 152 140 1439A 110 108 1029B 130 117 122seventh columns in Table 3 show the results.
Wedo not find a statistically significant difference ei-ther (t(9) = 1.03, p = 0.33).
These results do notsupport that energy or duration (i.e.
speaking rate)is correlated to task switching.5.3 Intensity of SignalTo better understand how pitch is used in signalingtask switching, we next examine whether it corre-lates with place of switching, i.e., switching at theend of a game, at the end of a card, or embeddedinside a card segment.
Because there are relativelyless data for switching at the end of a game (seeTable 1 and 2), we combine switching at the endof a game and at the end of a card (C & G) as acategory.Table 4 shows the average pitch of ?do youhave?
when switching to a picture game embeddedinside a card segment, at the end of a card or gamesegment, and during poker-playing.
The differencebetween these three conditions is statistically sig-nificant (F (2, 9) = 15.61, p < 0.001).
Switchingembedded inside a card segment has a statisticallyhigher pitch than switching at the end of a card orgame segment (t(9) = 5.54, p < 0.001), whichin turn has a statistically higher pitch than duringpoker-playing (t(9) = 2.91, p = 0.01).10305.4 DiscussionConsistent with previous research on topic shifts insingle-tasking speech, our experiments show thatswitching to a real-time task correlates with theuse of certain discourse markers and prosodic vari-ations.
It is not surprising that ?oh?
and ?wait?
cor-relate with task switching.
Task switching involvesa sudden change of the conversation topic, and pre-vious research found that conversants use ?oh?
tomark a change of state in orientation or awareness(Heritage, 1984).
?Wait?
is used to mark a discon-tinuity in the ongoing topic, which is also requiredby task switching.
Thus people may use these dis-course markers to signal switching to a real-timetask.
In terms of prosodic variations, we find thattask switching correlates with higher pitch.
Thissuggests that pitch is used to signal switching to areal-time task.Our experiments have also shown that pitch cor-relates to place of switching.
As discussed in Sec-tion 4.3, task switching embedded inside a cardsegment is the most disruptive, switching at theend of a card is less, and at the end of a game is theleast.
Our results show that switching embeddedin a card segment has a higher pitch than switch-ing at the end of a card or a game, which in turn hasa higher pitch than non-switching (poker-playing).This suggests that the degree of disruptiveness cor-responds to the value of pitch: the more disruptiveplace to switch, the higher is the pitch.From our results we speculate that pitch is usedto divert the hearer from the ongoing task, sig-naling an unexpected event (c.f.
(Sussman et al,2003)).
When task switching is more disruptive,the speaker uses higher pitch; probably because thehearer has a stronger expectation of the next utter-ance to be in the context of poker-playing.
Theuse of higher pitch servers as a cue that the hearershould suspend the ongoing context and interpretthe utterance in a new context.
According to thetheory of least collaborative effort, the effort ofraising the pitch by the speaker is probably to re-duce the effort of recognizing and processing thetask switching by the hearer (Clark and Wilkes-Gibbs, 1986).6 Machine Learning ExperimentIn the previous sections, we showed the correlationof various cues with task switching.
In this sec-tion, we conduct a machine learning experiment todetermine whether we can reliably recognize taskswitching using these cues.
For the reasons givenin Section 5.2, we limit our experiment to the 256cases of ?do you have?, 148 for task switchingand 108 for poker playing.
We train a decisiontree classifier (C4.5) to discriminate task switchingfrom poker playing.
We use 5-fold cross validationto evaluate the performance.
We use decision treelearning because its output is interpretable and wehave found its performance comparable to otherdiscriminative classifiers for this task.The feature set includes 1) discourse context:whether the utterance before ?do you have?
is theend of a poker game, the end of a card segment,or in the middle of a card segment4; 2) cue word:whether the ?do you have?
follows the cue word?oh?
or ?wait?
; and 3) normalized pitch: the pitchof ?do you have?
divided by the average pitch ofthe speaker during the dialogue.The decision tree learning obtains an accuracyof 83% in identifying whether a ?do you have?
ini-tiates a task switching or belongs to poker playing;and the recall, precision, and F measure for taskswitching are 90%, 82%, and 86% respectively.
Asa baseline, if we blindly assume that all cases of?do you have?
are for task switching, we have anaccuracy of 58%.
Thus decision tree learning withthe three features has 43% relative error reductionover the baseline.To examine the structure of the decision tree, webuild a single tree from all 256 cases of ?do youhave?.
We find that the decision tree first examinesthe normalized pitch; if it is greater than 1.085, it isa task-switch.
Otherwise, if the discourse contextis at the end of a game, then it is for task switch-ing; if the discourse context is embedded in a cardsegment, it is for poker playing; if the discoursecontext is at the end of a card: if normalized pitchis higher than 0.975 then it is for task switching,otherwise for poker playing.
Interestingly, the fea-ture of cue word is not used in the tree.The performance and structure of the learnedtree suggest that discourse context and normalizedpitch are useful features for discriminating taskswitching.7 ConclusionIn this paper we have described an empirical studyof human-human multi-tasking dialogues, wherepeople perform multiple verbal tasks overlapped4Card and game segments can be determined fairly accu-rately from the mouse clicks even without the speech.1031in time.
We first examined the place of taskswitching, i.e.
where players suspend the ongoingtask and switch to a real-time task.
Our analysisshowed that people strive to switch at a less dis-ruptive place.
We then examined the cues to signaltask switching.
We found that task switching cor-relates with certain discourse markers and prosodicvariations.
More interestingly, the more disruptivethe switching is, the higher is the pitch.
We thusspeculate that pitch is used by the speaker to helpthe listener be aware of task switching and under-stand the utterance.
Finally, our machine learn-ing experiment showed that discourse context andpitch are useful features to reliably identify taskswitching.AcknowledgementThis work was funded by the National ScienceFoundation under IIS-0326496.ReferencesAyers, Gayle M. 1992.
Discourse functions of pitchrange in spontaneous and read speech.
Presented atthe Linguistic Society of America Annual Meeting.Bangerter, Adrian and Herbert H. Clark.
2003.
Nav-igating joint projects with dialogue.
Cognitive Sci-ence, 27:195?229.Butterworth, Brian.
1972.
Hesitation and semanticplanning in speech.
Journal of Psycholinguistic Re-search, 4:75?87.Clark, Herbert H. and Deanna Wilkes-Gibbs.
1986.Referring as a collaborative process.
Cognitive Sci-ence, 22:1?39.Core, Mark G. and James F. Allen.
1997.
Codingdialogues with the DAMSL annotation scheme.
InWorking Notes: AAAI Fall Symposium on Commu-nicative Action in Humans and Machines, pages 28?35, Cambridge.Grosz, Barbara J. and Julia Hirschberg.
1992.
Someintonational characteristics of discourse structure.
InProceedings of 2nd ICSLP, pages 429?432.Grosz, Barbara J. and Candace L. Sidner.
1986.
Atten-tion, intentions, and the structure of discourse.
Com-putational Linguistics, 12(3):175?204.Heeman, Peter A., Fan Yang, Andrew L. Kun, andAlexander Shyrokov.
2005.
Conventions inhuman-human multithreaded dialogues: A prelimi-nary study.
In Proceedings of IUI (short paper ses-sion), pages 293?295, San Diego CA.Heritage, John.
1984.
A change-of-state token and as-pects of its sequential placement.
In Atldnson, J. M.and J.
Heritage, editors, Structures of social action:Studies in conversation analysis, chapter 13, pages299?345.
Cambridge University Press.Hirschberg, Julia and Christine H. Nakatani.
1996.
Aprosodic analysis of discourse segments in direction-giving monologues.
In Proceedings of 34th ACL,pages 286?293.Kun, Andrew L., W. Thomas Miller, and William H.Lenharth.
2004.
Computers in police cruisers.IEEE Pervasive Computing, 3(4):34?41, October-December.Lemon, Oliver, Alexander Gruenstein, Alexis Battle,and Stanley Peters.
2002.
Multi-tasking and collab-orative activities in dialogue systems.
In Proceed-ings of 3rd SIGdial, Philadelphia PA.Moser, Megan and Johanna D. Moore.
1995.
Inves-tigating cue selection and placement in tutorial dis-course.
In Proceedings of 33rd ACL, pages 130?135.Nakajima, Shin?ya and James F. Allen.
1993.
A studyon prosody and discourse structure in cooperativedialogues.
Technical report, Rochester, NY, USA.technical report.Passonneau, Rebecca J. and Diane J. Litman.
1997.Discourse segmentation by human and automatedmeans.
Computational Linguistics, 23(1):103?139.Schiffrin, Deborah.
1987.
Discourse Markers.
Cam-bridge University Press.Shyrokov, Alexander, Andrew Kun, and Peter Hee-man.
2007.
Experiments modeling of human-human multi-threaded dialogues in the presence ofa manual-visual task.
In Proceedings of 8th SIGdial,pages 190?193.Sussman, E., I. Winkler, and E. Schrg?oer.
2003.
Top-down control over involuntary attention switching inthe auditory modality.
Psychonomic Bulletin & Re-view, 10(3):630?637.Swerts, Marc and Mari Ostendorf.
1995.
Discourseprosody in human-machine interactions.
In Proceed-ings of ESCA workshop on spoken dialogue systems:theories and applications, pages 205?208, VisgoDenmark.Swerts, Marc.
1995.
Combining statistical and pho-netic analyses of spontaneous discourse segmenta-tion.
In Proceedings of the 12th ICPhS, volume 4,pages 208?211.Toh, Siew Leng, Fan Yang, and Peter A. Heeman.2006.
An annotation scheme for agreement analy-sis.
In Proceedings of 9th ICSLP, pages 201?204,Pittsburgh PA.1032
