Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2008), pages 729?736Manchester, August 2008Anomalies in the WordNet Verb HierarchyTom RichensAston UniversityAston TriangleBirmingham B4 7ET, Englandrichentm@aston.ac.ukAbstractThe WordNet verb hierarchy is tested,with a view to improving the perform-ance of its applications, revealing topo-logical anomalies and casting doubt onits semantic categories.
Encoded tro-ponyms frequently misrepresent otherkinds of entailment.
Approaches are pro-posed for correcting these anomalies in-cluding a new top ontology.1 IntroductionWordNet is a lexical database widely used forNLP tasks.
Any application of WordNet whichmeasures semantic distance employs WordNetrelations to do so.As part of a wider project to build an improvedand enriched lexical database using existing re-sources, in the hope of improving on the per-formance of WordNet, this study investigates thecorrectness of the hypernymy/troponymy rela-tions between verbs.The broader project would ideally model thesehierarchical relations as trees but for the phe-nomenon of multiple inheritance, which is in-vestigated here to see if it is semantically justi-fied.
Moreover it seems intuitively likely thatanomalies will be concentrated where the rela-tional structure is more complex.1.1 DefinitionsThe only document found to specify the Word-Net verbal relations is Fellbaum (1998), who de-fines troponymy (the verb equivalent of hy-ponymy) as a special case of entailment, where?
2008.
Licensed under the Creative Commons Attri-bution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unportedlicense (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).
Some rights reserved.the entailing and entailed verb are temporally co-extensive, distinguishing it from causation, tem-poral inclusion, and backward presupposition, ofwhich the last two are not encoded as distinctrelations in WordNet, but are combined underthe general heading of entailment.
The expres-sion sister terms is used to designate a pair ofsynsets which share a hypernym.This study distinguishes between transitivecausation (causing another to do something) andreflexive causation (causing oneself to dosomething).
The term quale (plural: qualia) isborrowed from Pustejovsky (1991).
As applied toverbs within the context of this study, the formalquale means what is physically done, while thetelic quale means the purpose or intended resultof the action.1.2 Application of WordNet RelationsBanerjee & Pedersen (2003) have employedWordNet relations in an extension to the Lesk(1986) algorithm for word sense disambiguation.In order to establish the relatedness of twowords, the glosses of their WordNet relatives arecompared.
Their results are noticeably inferiorfor verbs than for nouns.
Moreover, while themost useful relations for disambiguating nounswere hyponymy and meronymy, in the case ofverbs, the example sentences proved more usefulthan any relations.
Their best results were ob-tained by using all relations between verbs indis-criminately.
This finding reflects on the distinc-tions between kinds of verb relations and sug-gests that at least where verbs are concerned, thelimited success achieved by algorithms relyingon WordNet relations arises from the probabilitythat when a relation is encoded, some relationexists, even though the kind of relation is notnecessarily correct.
This observation suggeststhat improvements to the WordNet relations maywell be useful for improving on the performance729of WordNet as a tool for interlingual tasks andword sense disambiguation.1.3 Validation of WordnetsSmr?
(2003) proposes a number of tests forvalidating wordnets.
These involve checking for"cycles", "dangling uplinks" and "top-mostsynset not from the defined set" and criticallyexamining "multi-parent relations".
These testshave been applied in the development ofBalkanNet (Various 2004).
The present studylooks for any of the listed faults or potentialfaults within WordNet 3.0.
Without a defined setof unique beginners, it is impossible todistinguish a "dangling uplink" from "top-mostsynset not from the defined set".
All verbssynsets without any hypernym will therefore beconsidered as candidate unique beginners.1.4 Potential Hypernymy FaultsLiu et al (2004) have found thousands of casesof rings within the hierarchies, which arise whena synset has two hypernyms within the same se-mantic category, which themselves have a com-mon hypernym, along with isolators, trees iso-lated within their own category whose only hy-pernym lies in another category.
Such deviationsfrom a tree-structure, if not semantically justifi-able, should be considered as faults.The occurrence of a ring implies multipleinheritance, which is not necessarily a fault butmerits investigation to ensure that it is justified.There are two other kinds of potential faultwhich should also be considered: another kind ofring is a cycle, which is formed where followingthe hypernymy relation in one direction leadsback to where one started; a special case of anisolator occurs where a synset has no hypernymat all, which makes it a candidate uniquebeginner.
Liu et al (2004) dismiss thispossibility as legitimate, without furtherconsideration, on the grounds that this applies tothe unique beginners of each semantic category.In fact, Fellbaum (1998) allows for more thanone unique beginner per verb category.
Howevercases where there is a large number of uniquebeginners in one category merit investigation.1.5 MethodologyThe present study has been conducted using amodel of WordNet where synsets, word sensesand relations are implemented as Java objects,constructed from the WordNet 3.0 Prolog files.Focussing mainly on verbs, three main aspectsare investigated, topological anomalies, anoma-lies relating to categories and the top ontology.An algorithm was developed to discover occur-rences of each of the kinds of potential hy-pernymy fault identified above.
To investigatetopological anomalies, the algorithm recursivelyconstructs an upside-down tree from each synset,using that synset as root with its most remoteindirect hypernyms as the leaves.
Where a cycleoccurs, a stack error will result.
A ring is identi-fied wherever a synset is found more than oncein the same upside-down tree.
This approach isan extension of the methodology employed byLiu et al (2004), in that it assumes no correlationbetween semantic categories and hypernymy soas to identify rings which straddle categoryboundaries.
An examination of rings in the verbhierarchy leads onto a more general examinationof dual inheritance among verbs (there are noverbs with more than 2 hypernyms).An isolator occurs when the only hypernym is ina different semantic category to the synset underinvestigation.
Examination of isolators revealsmore anomalies in the verb hierarchy but alsoraises questions about the validity of the seman-tic categories.A candidate unique beginner is identified when-ever a synset has troponyms but no hypernym.The proliferation of unspecified unique beginnersamong verbs prompts a full review of the topontology.The full results which are analysed here are cur-rently available at:http://www.rockhouse.me.uk/Linguistics.2 Topological Anomalies and Remedies2.1 CycleThe algorithm implementation generated a stackerror when applied to a number of verbal synsets:in each case the same cycle was encountered,which is the only one in WordNet 3.0.Figure 1.
Cycle topologyThe two synsets in fig.
1 appear to besynonymous.
Merging them to remove the cyclewould improve structural consistency.7302.2 RingsLiu et al (2004) define a ring as being formedwhere a synset "has at least 2 fathers in its owncategory", which have a common ancestor alsowithin that category.
Our algorithm uses abroader definition of ring as any instance of asynset having two hypernyms such that thesehypernyms themselves have a common ancestoror one of them is the ancestor of the other (table1).Case with respect tosemantic categoriesVerbs NounsSingle category 5 1Ancestry crosses categoriesbut direct relations are insame category as headword2 1984Ancestry crosses categoriesand direct relations crosscategories1 379TOTAL 8 2364TOTAL using definitionfrom Liu et al (2004)7 1985Results of Liu et al (2004)using WordNet 2.017 1839Table 1.
Rings in WordnetFigure 2.
Asymmetric ring topologyFigure 3.
Symmetric ring topologyAn analysis of the rings among nouns is outsidethe scope of this study.
Out of the 8 rings in theverb hierarchies, 4 are asymmetric and 4 aresymmetric.In 3 out of 4 cases of the asymmetric topology(fig.
2), the link between the initial synset and thecompound hypernym is redundant and can beremoved.
In the remaining case, "eat" (transitive)has the simple hypernym "eat" (intransitive)which simply fails to specify what is eaten.
Thiscan be considered as synonymy and so there is acase for merging these synsets.
The compoundhypernym "consume, ingest" would also seem tobe a synonym, unless one relies on the gloss:"serve oneself to, or consume regularly", inwhich case it as ambiguous between reflexivecausation and iteration, neither of which fits thedefinition of hypernymy.The instances of symmetric topology (fig.
3)raise different issues.
Liu et al (2004) assert thata ring implies a paradox because they assumethat two hyponyms of a single hypernym musthave opposite properties in some dimension andtherefore cannot have a common hyponym, as ahyponym must inherit all the properties of itshypernym.
In fact there need not be any paradoxas two hyponyms can modify two different prop-erties of their hypernym (see Amaro et al, 2006,for a discussion with particular reference toqualia properties).
The symmetric ring startingfrom the word "turn" in the sense "the leaves turnin Autumn" involves different properties: "turn,grow" is distinguished from "change" by specify-ing that the timescale is gradual, while "discol-our" specifies which attribute is to change; "turn"in the above sense inherits both properties ofgradual timescale and colour attribute.In the remaining three cases of symmetric rings,the gloss for the initial synset contains the word"or", conveying an ambiguity.
The two hy-pernyms in each case are in fact hypernyms orsynonyms of the respective two meanings, andthe grandparent is indeed a common ancestor.Splitting the ambiguous synsets to remove thering would improve consistency.We conclude that in 7 out of 8 instances, ringsamong verbs can be corrected and in theremaining case (?turn?, above) the ring and thedual inheritance are justified.
The question thenarises as to why there should only be one case ofa semantically justifiable ring.
The answer to thisquestion is sought through an investigation of theremaining 23 cases of dual inheritance amongverbs, where there is no ring.7312.3 Dual inheritanceTable 2 shows the results of a review of the se-mantic relations encoded as hypernymy in a dualinheritance context.
3 hypernyms have an am-biguous troponym whose gloss contains the word"or", and 2 hypernyms are themselves ambiguouswith glosses containing "or".Correct: Telic quale 5Correct: Formal quale 4Otherwise correct hypernym 10Hypernym of 1 sense of ambiguoustroponym3No near relation 4Synonym of other hypernym 2Temporal inclusion 4Backward presupposition 1Ambiguous hypernym 2Reflexive cause of sister term 1Sister term 1Reverse proper inclusion of 1 senseof ambiguous troponym2Intransitive form of transitive tro-ponym1Synonym 1Non-reflexive form of reflexivetroponym1Transitive cause 1Troponym 2Literal sense of metaphor 1TOTAL 46% correct 34.78%Table 2.
Verb hypernyms involved in dual inheritancewithout ringsThe cases of proper inclusion and backward pre-supposition should be encoded as entailmentsaccording to Fellbaum's (1998) specification andcauses also should be encoded as such.Word forms Formal quale Telic qualedate,date stampstamp dateassemble,piecejoin, bringtogethermake, createexecute, putto deathKill punish, pe-nalizeCarve Cut shape, formSing Utter interpret,renderTable 3.
Dual inheritance justified by qualiaTable 3 shows details of those 4 cases where dualinheritance can be justified in terms of inheri-tance of two different qualia (Amaro et al,2006).
The fifth example, in italics, is not as en-coded in WordNet: "sing" (intransitive) is givenas a hypernym of "sing" (transitive), which isotherwise synonymous, consistent with the en-coding of "eat" mentioned above.
The other hy-pernym, "interpret, render" is necessarily transi-tive.
The hypernym of "sing" (intransitive) isgiven as "talk, speak", which is really a sisterterm whose common hypernym would be "utter"(Miller & Johnson-Laird, 1976), which repre-sents the formal quale, while "interpret, render"represents the telic quale.
So there is an underly-ing dual inheritance of different qualia proper-ties.The only cases of dual inheritance which can beconsidered legitimate are those where differentbut compatible properties are inherited.
Whilethis handful of examples has been identified,there are no doubt many more which could bediscovered (Amaro et al, 2006).
The encoding ofthese might well result in further justifiable rings.3 Anomalies relating to Categories3.1 Isolators1593 examples were found of isolators amongverbs and 2527 among nouns.
These results ap-proximate to those of Liu et al (2004), whofound 1551 verb isolators and 2654 noun isola-tors in WordNet 2.0.
A review of the semanticrelations was undertaken on a sample of 41 pairsof troponym and hypernym in different catego-ries among verbs (table 4).Correct hypernymy 26Troponym is true troponym of onemeaning of ambiguous hypernym1Hypernym is cause of troponym 2Troponym is true troponym of causeof hypernym2Hypernym temporally includes tro-ponym1Hypernym is backward presupposi-tion of troponym1Synonymous 5Metaphor 1No near relation 2TOTAL 41% correct 63%Table 4: Semantic relations among isolator samples732Again we find cases of causation and entailmentencoded as hypernymy.
In most cases the hy-pernymy relation is correct, while the synsetsbelong to different categories.
This arises inevi-tably because the WordNet verb categories are,for the most part, not mutually exclusive.
In onlyone sample were the categories found to be mu-tually exclusive (change and stative).
14 out ofthe 82 synsets were judged not to belong to thecategory to which they are assigned, while 17synsets do belong to the other's category.The majority of WordNet's verbal semanticcategories represent overlapping semantic fields.It is not therefore surprising that the isolatorphenomenon occurs and this does not necessarilyimply an error.
The only categories which couldbe considered not to overlap are stative withchange and creation, and weather with most ofthe other semantic fields.A more detailed examination was made of asample of 76 cases of isolator, where the hy-pernym and troponym categories could be con-sidered mutually exclusive.
The incorrect exam-ples in table 5 are typical of the kinds of errorswe have already seen in the encoding of Word-Net relations.Valid relation 55No near relation 5Hypernym is reflexive cause oftroponym1Indeterminate (ambiguous syn-set)6Syntactic alternation 2Hypernym is backward presup-position of troponym2Hypernymy only because of mis-leading gloss1Sister terms 1Hypernym is reflexive of tro-ponym1Synonymous 1Troponym is transitive cause oftrue troponym1TOTAL 76% correct 72%Table 5.
Semantic relations among isolator samplesinvolving mutually exclusive categoriesSome 53 synsets (34.9%) were considered to bein the correct category.
Change has been usedindiscriminately to include both causative andinchoative alternations, while both creation andstative have been used for the causative alterna-tions and stative has also been used for some ofthe inchoative alternations.
By transferring all theinchoative alternations to change, and all thecausative alternations to creation, some of thecategory mismatches disappear.Some of the verbs in this dataset have genericmeanings like doing and happening, which donot fit into any of the WordNet categories.Creating categories for these verbs mighteliminate more anomalies.3.2 Theoretical Basis of CategoriesIn theory, WordNet nouns and verbs are arrangedas a set of hierarchies (Fellbaum 1998), eachwith an unique beginner, but multiple inheritanceis not ruled out, particularly where the secondhypernym of a synset is in a different semanticcategory.
The semantic categories in WordNetare based, according to Fellbaum (1998) on astandard work on psycholinguistics (Miller &Johnson-Laird, 1976).
The latter discusses indetail verbs of motion, possession, vision(WordNet perception) and communication,which are the basis for the correspondingWordNet categories.
Other semantic fieldsmentioned are contact, bodily activity (WNbody), thought (WN cognition) and affect (WNemotion).
Miller & Johnson-Laird, (1976)acknowledge that these categories overlap, butWordNet does not allow a verb to belong to morethan one category.
No theoretical basis has beenfound for the remaining categories.
Competitionis subsumed by social, and consumption issubsumed by body.
Weather would seem self-contained, but change, creation and stative arenot semantic fields at all.
Stative belongs to theAktionsart categorisation of verbs distinguishingit from verbs of activity, achievement andaccomplishment, which is orthogonal to thecategorisation of verbs into semantic fields(Vendler, 1967, Moens & Steedman 1988,Amaro, 2006).
Moreover, a verb can belong tomore than one Aktionsart category, as theseapply to verbs in contexts.3.3 Suggested Revision of CategoriesAmong verbs, the level of arbitrariness and in-correctness of the WordNet categories seemsgreater than that of the relations.
Whereas thetheoretical basis for WordNet relations is consis-tent and the errors are failures to conform to thespecification, in the case of categories, the theo-retical basis is inconsistent, being, a compromisebetween more than one system of categorisation.733Many anomalies arise because WordNet onlyallows a verb to belong to one category.
It is im-possible to encode semantic categories correctlyon the basis of one category per verb.
At leasttwo semantic fields need to be allowed, plus atleast one orthogonal category.
Miller & Johnson-Laird (1976) themselves point out that semanticcomponents like cause and intention cross theboundaries between semantic fields as do opera-tors like happen, do, act, possible and permissi-ble.4 Top Ontology4.1 Candidate Unique BeginnersWordNet 3.0 has 559 verbs with no hypernym,spread over all categories.
Of these, 225 have notroponyms either.
A further 96 have a singletroponym of which 80 have no furthertroponyms.
This leaves 254 verbs which have nohypernym and more than 1 direct or indirecttroponym, in contrast with the theoreticalposition that each verb category has at most ahandful of unique beginners (Fellbaum, 1998).These 254 verbs will therefore be considered ascandidate unique beginners.More than one candidate was found in everycategory, the minimum being 5 for category 34consumption.
According to Fellbaum (1998),category 38 motion should have two unique be-ginners "expressing translational movement" and"movement without displacement" respectively.There are 17 other candidates in this category.Similarly category 40, possession should have 3unique beginners, representing the basic concepts"give", "take" and "have", whereas there are 12other candidates.Again, according to Fellbaum (1998) "Commu-nication verbs are headed by the verb communi-cate but immediately divide into two independ-ent trees expressing verbal and nonverbal (ges-tural) communication".
There are 7 senses of"communicate" in WordNet 3.0 all of whichhave hypernyms.
Fellbaum (1998) identifies afurther subdivision between spoken and writtenlanguage, but the only reference to "write"among these 254 synsets occurs in category 36:creation.
In fact category 32 communication has18 candidates.
There appears to be no connectionbetween the theory and the practice here.It is always possible to define a verb in terms ofanother verb with one or more arguments.
This isa method of identifying hypernyms, whichappears to have been used extensively, thoughinconsistently, in the construction of WordNet,using the glosses for semi-automatic hypernymgeneration.
Full automation of such a techniquewould lead inevitably to the cycle scenariodefined above.
There have to be uniquebeginners in order to avoid this.4.2 Deriving a New Top OntologyOn a dataset of this size, it is feasible to manuallyidentify hypernyms for most of the synsets,though there is more than one possible solutionin many cases.
In some cases it is sufficient toprovide a more generic verb or verbal phrase ashypernym, which already belongs to a hierarchy.In other cases a combination of a verb and one ormore arguments (mostly involving an additionalverb) is required in order to define the verb, inwhich case the syntactic main verb in the defini-tion can be considered as the hypernym.
Auxil-iary verbs required by the definitions include onemodal verb ("can") not included in WordNet.The 254 synsets were manually annotated eitherwith proposed hypernyms or with definitions interms of verbs and arguments, without referenceto semantic categories.
In some cases auxiliariesact in conjunction with each other to form morecomplex definitions.
The definitions are tenta-tive, the objective being to demonstrate the pos-sibility of generating a compact and consistenttop ontology.
However, there is scope for intro-ducing more rigour by formalising the definitionsalong the lines of Jackendoff's (1983, 1990) lexi-cal conceptual structures.Table 6 shows the auxiliaries used in defining thecandidate unique beginners.
The first row repre-sents verbs which can be defined as the passiveof another verb, namely "hang?
(be supportedfrom above), "depend (on)?
(be caused by) and"belong (to)?
(be had by).The next row but one represents transitive causa-tion verbs e.g.
"kill?
(cause to die), "sensitize?
(cause to sense), show (cause to see) etc.
Thereis also negative causation, of which the most ge-neric case is the verb "prevent".
There are fewer,but a significant number of examples of reflexivecausation, e.g.
"look?
(cause self to see) andmore complex cases concerning possession:"give?
(cause to have + cause self to not have),"take?
(cause to not have + cause self to have).There are a number of unique beginners whichexpress starting or stopping e.g.
"learn?
(start toknow), "get?
(start to have), "become?
(start tobe) and "lose" (stop having).Finally there are verbs which can be defined asthe negation of other verbs: "displease?
(notplease), "reject?
(not accept), "fail?
(not suc-734ceed), "lack?
(not have), "refrain?
(not do).
Al-though "NOT" is not a verb, "doesn't/don't" is averb which is generally substituted for "NOT",except in the infinitive.
On these grounds "NOT"is not out of place in this list.Aux.
Syntax n Hyp.
Args.Be done 3 happenCan do 1Cause to do 43 makeCause self to do 6 make selfFeel like doing 2Keep(repeat)doing 6 do againStart doing 11Stop doing 8Tell (1) (someone)to do1 tell (2) that youmustTry to do 1 will althoughNOTknowwhethercanNOT do 22Additional verbs used to define above auxilia-riesTell (2) (someone)that3 cause knowMust do 1Will do 43Table 6.
Auxiliaries needed to define candidateunique beginners (Aux.
= auxiliary; n = number ofcandidates defined; Hyp.
= proposed hypernym; Args.= arguments)In order to identify hypernyms from these defini-tions consistently, we take the auxiliaries, includ-ing "NOT", as the immediate hypernyms.A second meaning of "tell" has been added totable 6 as this has not been subsumed.
The hy-pernyms and arguments themselves introducetwo more modal auxiliaries, "must" and "will"(in the Old English sense of volition).The implementation of this approach to identify-ing hypernyms for candidate unique beginners,left 14 which could not be subsumed, (table 7).The two synonymous synsets in category 41 canbe merged.
Weather verbs of zero valency aresubsumed by "happen".Those auxiliaries used in the definitions whichcannot be subsumed by a hypernym must be rep-resented in the list of outstanding unique begin-ners.
Of these, "feel", "start" and "stop" are al-ready listed.
The modals ("can", "must" and"will") and "NOT" need to be added to table 7 tocomplete a proposed new compact and consistenttop ontology for verbs comprising 18 unique be-ginners.There are relations between these concepts andthe list could probably be further reduced.
Themodal verbs, together with "know" form a natu-ral set of entailments for "do".
The concept "do"compulsorily backwardly presupposes the com-bination of "can" and "will" ("able and willing").
"Will" may be underlain or superseded by"must".
"Can" can mean either "is physicallyequipped to" or "knows how to" or both and cor-responds to the operator possible in the schemaof Miller & Johnson-Laird (1976) referred toabove, while "must" means NOT(permissi-ble(NOT to)) using the operator permissible fromthe same schema.Synset ID Word Forms Cat.200109660 change 30200339934 happen, hap, go on 30200594621 know, cognize, cognise 31200628491 think, cogitate, cerebrate 31201617192 make, create 36201712704 perform, execute, do 36201771535 feel, experience 37201831531 move (non-translational) 38201835496 travel, go, move (transla-tional)38202106506 perceive, comprehend 39202367363,202419073act, move 41202603699 exist, be 42202608347 begin, start 42202609764 end, stop, finish, terminate 42Addendum can n/aAddendum must n/aAddendum will n/aAddendum NOT n/aTable 7.
New top ontology comprising outstandingunique beginners and modals5 ConclusionIn the course of this study, one cycle has beenfound in WordNet and a number of "multi-parentrelations" have been found to be unjustified.Over 500 instances have been found of "top-mostsynset not from the defined set" or "dangling up-links" (Smr?, 2003).
Many shortcomings havebeen found in the encoding of hypernymy be-tween verbs, where the implementation fre-735quently does not conform to the theory.
In theirpresent state, the encoded relations can only re-liably serve to indicate that a relation exists be-tween two verbs and not to elucidate what thatrelation is.
One is left with the impression thatmany hypernyms have been encoded arbitrarily,whether manually or automatically, with littlerespect for distinctions between kinds of relation.The hierarchy could be improved by mergingsynonymous synsets and removing redundantrelations and by adopting a consistent approachto causative/inchoative alternations.
The onlyvalid cases of dual inheritance are where differ-ent but compatible properties are inherited.
Manymore such relations could be encoded.
The se-mantic categories are, for the most part, not mu-tually exclusive and lack a consistent theoreticalbasis.
If semantic categories are required, then averb needs to be allowed to belong to more thanone.
A new top ontology has been proposedwhich reduces the number of unique beginnersfrom 254 to 18 with the aid of auxiliaries includ-ing modal verbs.The issues identified can be addressed by build-ing a new lexical database from the samesources, but there would be a very substantialoverhead of applying manual corrections to theentire verb hierarchy or constructing an entirelynew set of relations with a clear theoretical basisin a non-arbitrary manner, along the lines sug-gested by Guarino (1998).
One possible alterna-tive is to borrow the relational structure fromanother lexical database.AcknowledgementThanks are due to Dr. S. H. S. Wong and Dr. C.Buckingham of Aston University for suggestionsregarding the presentation of these findings.ReferencesAmaro, R. 2006.
WordNet as a base lexicon model forcomputation of verbal predicates.
Proceedings ofthe Third Global WordNet Conference, 22-26January 2006, Jeju Island, Korea.Amaro, R., Chaves, R. P., Marrafa, P. & Mendes S.2006.
Enriching Wordnets with new Relations andwith Event and Argument Structures.
Seventh In-ternational Conference on Intelligent Text Process-ing and Computational Linguistics, Mexico City,2006, 28 - 40.Banerjee, S. & Pedersen, P. 2003.
Extended GlossOverlaps as a Measure of Semantic Relatedness.Proceedings of the Eighteenth International JointConference on Artificial Intelligence, Acapulco,Mexico, August, 2003.Fellbaum, C. 1998.
A Semantic Network of EnglishVerbs, Fellbaum, C.
(ed.
), WordNet: An ElectronicLexical Database, Cambridge, Massachusetts, MITPress, 69-104.Guarino, N., 1998.
Some ontological principles fordesigning upper level lexical resources.
In: Pro-ceedings of the First International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation, LREC 98.Jackendoff, R., 1983, Semantics & Cognition, Cam-bridge, Massachusetts, MIT Press.Jackendoff, R., 1990, Semantic Structures, CurrentStudies in Linguistics Series, Cambridge, Massa-chusetts, MIT Press.Lesk, M., 1986.
Automatic sense disambiguation us-ing machine readable dictionaries: How to tell apine cone from a ice cream cone.
In Proceedings ofSIGDOC ?86,Liu, Y., Jiangsheng Y., Zhengshan W. & Shiwen Y.2004.
Two Kinds of Hypernymy Faults in Word-Net: the Cases of Ring and Isolator.
Proceedings ofthe Second Global WordNet Conference.
Brno,Czech Republic, 20-23 January 2004.
347-351.Miller & Johnson-Laird.
1976.
Language & Percep-tion, Cambridge University Press, Chapter 7, 524-689.Moens, M. & Steedman, M. 1998.
Temporal Ontol-ogy and Temporal Reference, Computational Lin-guistics, 14 (2), June 1988, 15-28.Pustejovsky, J., 1991.
The Generative Lexicon, Com-putational Linguistics, 17, (4), 409-441Smr?, P. 2004.
Quality Control for Wordnet Devel-opment.
Proceedings of the Second Global Word-Net Conference.
Brno, Czech Republic, 20-23January 2004.
206-212.Various, 2004.
Design and Development of a Multi-lingual Balkan Wordnet Balkanet, IST-2000-29388, WP8: Restructuring Improvement Word-Nets, Deliverable D8.1: Restructuring WordNetsfor the Balkan languages, Project Report, Euro-pean CommissionVendler, Z., 1967, Verbs & Times, Vendler, Z.
(ed.
),Linguistics in Philosophy, Cornell UniversityPress, Ithaca & London, 97-121,Vossen, P. 2002.
EuroWordNet General Document,Project Report.736
