Coling 2010: Demonstration Volume, pages 1?4,Beijing, August 2010A Paraphrasing System for TransformingRegular Expressions into HonorificsDongli Han, Shuntaro Kamochi, Xin Song, Naoki Akegawa, Tomomasa HoriDepartment of Computer Science and System Analysis,College of Humanities and Sciences, Nihon Universityhan@cssa.chs.nihon-u.ac.jpAbstractHonorifics in Japanese plays an incred-ibly important role in all walks ofsocial life.
The demand to transformregular expressions in Japanese intohonorifics automatically has increasedrapidly especially in business situations.This paper reviews existing studies andproposes a system to fill this demandwith more practicable functions.
Theexperiment shows the effectiveness ofour strategy.1 IntroductionThe Japanese language is a kind of highlyspecific language in establishing hierarchicalrelations among people, or paying respects topeople comparing with other languages.
Thehonorifics in Japanese include different levelsof respectful, humble, and polite speecheswhich are frequently used in various social orbusiness situations.
The mechanism ofhonorifics in Japanese is so complicated thatrecent young generations in Japan could hardlymaster it or use it properly.This situation has encouraged the studydealing with honorifics in Japanese includingautomatic paraphrasing.
For instance, Noguchiet al generate all kinds of honorific forms forsingle verbs automatically (Noguchi et al2007).
In their study, verbs are consideredexclusively, and hence no contextualinformation has been employed.In another study, Tazoe et al have proposeda computer model to translate regularexpressions into respectful speeches (Tazoe etal.
2005).
They determine the type and level ofhonorifics for a verb in a sentence based on thesubject of the sentence and the listener level,the situation level, and the topic level retrievedfrom the entire article.
Comparing with thestudy of Noguchi et al , this one is morepractical.
However, there exist some problemsin this work.
No strategy seems to have beenprepared in case multiple verbs with differentagents appear in a same sentence.
Anotherproblem is the omission of subjects in Japanesesentences.
This will obstruct the determinationof the honorific form of the verb.
Worst of all,the method proposed in this work seems to beremaining as a computer model without beingimplemented at all.This paper describes a practical systemdeveloped to transform regular expressions inJapanese into honorific forms automatically.Specifically, we manage to retrieve thehierarchical relationships among characters ina sentence so as to determine differenthonorific forms for multiple verbs withdifferent agents in the same sentence.
Anothermajor difference from previous studies is thatwe employ a series of strategies to cope withthe problem of subject-omission.
Here in ourstudy, we mainly concentrate our attention onthe situation of composing business e-mails.We first describe the framework of our sys-tem in Section 2, and then some main modulesin the following sections.
Finally we discussthe experiment and conclude this paper in Sec-tion 7.2 Framework of Our SystemOur system contains four main parts: Informa-tion-retrieval Unit, Subject-complement Unit,Honorific-Form-Determination Unit, and Pa-raphrasing Unit.
We illustrate the wholeframework in Figure 1.1Figure 1: Framework of our systemBefore running the system, the user (the per-son who has composed an e-mail and wants tocheck the honorifics with the system) is rec-ommended to input the names and the posi-tions or statuses of both himse lf and the personhe is going to contact by e-mail, represented asthe Writer and the Reader in Figure 1.
Thisoptional function is to help the system makemore precise judgment on the hierarchical rela-tions among characters in the e-mail article ,and hence make more reasonable decision onrespect type and status level which will beused in Honorific-form-determination Unit.The procedure will be repeated until all sen-tences in the input article are processed.
Wedescribe the main parts next in section 3, 4, 5,and 6 in detail.3 Information RetrievalInformation-retrieval Unit is the first and mostessential part in our system.
We first retrievebasic information including parts of speechand dependency relations among constituentwords from a sentence through a free morpho-logical and dependency parsing software, Ca-bocha1.Then based on the basic information ob-tained above, the system attempts to extractnouns or pronouns representing characters1 http://chasen.org/~taku/software/cabocha/from the sentence, using a Japanese conceptthesaurus: EDR Concept Dictionary2.
The ex-tracted nouns will be divided into three catego-ries: first-person group, second-person group,and third-person group, by checking themagainst a first-person noun list and a second-person noun list we have made beforehand.The identification results will be used later inthe Honorific-form-determination Unit.Finally, the system assigns a respect typeand a status level to each character that is ap-pearing together with nouns showing duty po-sitions or social statuses.
Respect type reflectsthe degree of respect.
A larger number indi-cates a character with higher position, suggest-ing that a higher honorific form with more re-gard to the character should be appropriate.Status level has a similar nuance with respecttype.
It breaks each respect type down intoseveral positions and ranks them according totiny difference among them.4 Subject ComplementThe system could not determine which kind ofhonorific form should be applied to a verb withthe information on characters only.
We need toknow the subject of each verb as well.
Gener-ally, the subject of a predicate is identifiedthrough the dependency analyzing process.However, in case the subject of a verb is omit-ted, we have to find the subject to help deter-mine the honorific form as described later inSection 5.In our system, we employ five factors to helprecognize the subject for a verb.
In this section,we first explain the factors and then describethe method for complementing subjects basedon the five factors.4.1 Nonhuman-behavior VerbsOur final purpose with this system is totransform a verb into an appropriate kind ofhonorific form to show the writer?s regard orrespect to the reader.
Situation will be differentwhen the subject of a verb is not a person orcharacter.
No respect is needed to be paid to athing.In our system, before supplementing thesubject, we check the verb against the EDR2 http://www2.nict.go.jp/r/r312/EDR/J_index.html2Dictionary to see whether the verb represents anonhuman-behavior.
For example, theJapanese verb ??????
meaning boil, willnever appear with a person as its subject.
Inthis case, the system will not supplement thesubject for the verb, but leave a check-markhere to change the verb into a polite speechlater in Section 6.4.2 Expressions for EstimationThere are a number of expressions in Japanesefollowing verbs and implying estimation orhearsay.
For example, ?????
or ?????
?indicates possibility but uncertainty.
In caseone of these expressions appears following averb in a subject-omitted sentence, the subjectof the verb tends to be the second person or thethird person.
We prepare a list containing theseexpressions and supplement the subject as non-first-person if we find such an expression afterthe verb.4.3 Auxiliary PredicatesExpressions following the predicate and ap-pearing in the end of a sentence are called asauxiliary predicates (Kudo et al 1993).
Theyhelp predicates describe the modality of a sen-tence, and at the same time contain the infor-mation on subjects.
For instance, ?~(?)??
?represents the desire of the writer, while ?~???????
meaning that it is all right (for some-body) to do (something), indicates that some-body here should be the second person or thethird person.4.4 Expressions of Internal FeelingInternal feeling means the emotion or feelingin the back of one's mind, implying that no onecould understand or represent your feeling ex-cept yourself.
In Japanese, we use adjectives oradjective verbs to express internal feelings, andthe second person or the third person will nev-er act as the subject of such an adjective oradjective verb.
Here is an example.
????
?meaning happy, is a frequently used adjective.But different from happy which can be usedfor anybody, ?????
in Japanese is used onlyfor the first person.This fact helps us supplement the subject ina sentence with the first-person noun that wehave extracted in the Information-retrievalUnit.
We use a Japanese lexicon, Goi-Taikei(Ikehara et al 1999) as the data source, andemploy all the adjectives or adjective verbs inthe category of state of mind of a person in oursystem.4.5 Property of CaseIn most situations, if a character or personnoun has been used as a surface case withsome certain particles in a sentence, the cha-racter will seldom act as other surface cases inthe same sentence (Isozaki et al 2006).
Alongthis idea, we avoid supplementing subjectswith non-first-person characters or personnouns if they have appeared as other surfacecases.
Here the reason we exclude the first-person characters from applying the rule lies inthe fact that some first person characters do actas multiple surface cases although not that fre-quently.4.6 Subject-complement ProcedureOur system tries to supplement the subject fora verb in a sentence utilizing all the previouslydescribed factors in a comprehensive manner.At first, every rule is checked to see whether itis applicable or not.
Then we generate a slotcontaining four bits representing nonhuman,the first person, the second person, and thethird person respectively for each rule.Figure 2: An example of subject complementAccording to the applying result of each rule,each slot is updated with 1 or 0 representingpossibility and impossibility at the appropriatebit.
At last, we carry out an And Operation3with all slots and get the final answer.
Figure 2is an example of subject complement.If we get multiple candidates for the omittedsubject, we have to determine the final onebased on the priority order: nonhuman > thefirst person > the second person > the thirdperson as shown in Figure 2.
We have estab-lished the above priority order from the resultof a preliminary experiment.Here in this example, the system will sup-plement the subject of the corresponding verbin the sentence with the first-person noun.5 Honorific Form DeterminationIn this section, we describe the method of de-termining the honorific forms for verbs.
Wehave obtained the respect types, the status le-vels, and have supplemented the subjects forverbs in Information-retrieval Unit and Sub-ject-complement Unit respectively.
Now, thesystem will determine the honorific form foreach verb according to the following rules(R1~R4).
Here, the signals sub, nth P, andnSLindicates the subject, the nth person, and thestatus level of the nth person.R1.
If ((sub = 2nd P) and (1SL < 2SL  )) or((sub = 3rd P) and (1SL < 3SL  ) and(2SL < 3SL ))Then Respectful SpeechR2.
If ((sub = 1st P) and (1SL < 2SL  ))Then Humble SpeechR3.
If ((sub = 1st P) or (sub = 3rd P)) and(1SL < 2SL  ) and ( 3SL < 2SL )Then Teichogo SpeechR4.
Otherwise Polite SpeechThe formulamSL < nSL  means that the nth per-son has a higher position than the mth person.6 ParaphrasingIn accordance with the results of honorific-form determination, we transform verbs ineach sentence into their corresponding speech-es.
There are two types of transformation.
Oneis with most normal verbs based on generalparaphrasing rules and the respect levels thatwe have got in Section 3, such as the verb ????
meaning work , and ????
meaning write.Another transformation is more complicated.We have to convert the original verb into someparticular form first, and then inflect the newform according to the same general paraphras-ing rules as those being used for normal verbs.Here is an example.
The verb ????
meaninggo, holds a particular form: ????????
forexpressing respect, and ????
for expressingmodesty.Besides, we have added some exceptionprocessing into our system to cope with indi-vidual or isolated cases.7 ConclusionsWe have conducted a questionnaire to examinethe practicality of our system.
Participants inthe questionnaires include 5 Japanese collegestudents.
They are told to evaluate the natural-ness and correctness of a set of transformedarticles from our system in 3 levels: 2 for good,0 for bad, and 1 for the intermediate level be-tween good and bad: not good but acceptable.The average evaluation result is 1.32 showingthe effectiveness of our system.
We believethat the system could be utilized in situationsof creating business documents or learninghonorifics in Japanese.ReferencesIkehara, S., Miyazaki, M., Shirai, S., Yokoo, A.,Nakaiwa, H., Ogura, K., Ooyama, Y., and Haya-shi, Y.
1999.
Goi-Taikei - A Japanese Lexicon,Iwanami Shoten, Tokyo.
(in Japanese)Isozaki, H., Kazawa, H., and Hirao, T. 2006.
Japa-nese Zero Pronoun Resolution Based on Lexico-graphical Ordering of Penalties .
IPSJ Trans.47(7):2279-2294.
(in Japanese)Kudo, I., and Tomokiyo, M. 1993.
An Ellipsis-Resolution Mechanism by Using Japanese Pre-dicate Particu larity.
IEICE Trans.
J76-D-II(3):624-635.
(in Japanese)Noguchi, S., Nanjo.
H., and Yoshimi, T. 2007.Doushi No Tsujohyogen Kara Keigohyogen EnoKangen.
Proc.
of the 13th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Natural Language Processing,pages 978-981.
(in Japanese)Tazoe, T., Watanabe, C., Shiino, T. 2005.
Devel-opment of a Computer Model for Translating inRespect Language.
IPSJ SIG Notes 2005(94):1-6.
(in Japanese).4
