Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2010), pages 46?52,Beijing, August 2010Automatic Detection of on-deverbal Event ouns forQuick Lexicon Production?ria BelIULAUniversitat Pompeu Fabranuria.bel@upf.eduMaria CollIULAUniversitat Pompeu Fabramaria.coll02@campus.upf.eduGabriela ResnikUniversidad Nacional deGeneral Sarmiento and Uni-versitat Pompeu Fabragresnik@ungs.edu.arAbstractIn this work we present the results of ex-perimental work on the development oflexical class-based lexica by automaticmeans.
Our purpose is to assess the useof linguistic lexical-class based informa-tion as a feature selection methodologyfor the use of classifiers in quick lexicaldevelopment.
The results show that theapproach can help reduce the human ef-fort required in the development of lan-guage resources significantly.1 IntroductionAlthough language independent, many linguistictechnologies are inherently tied to the availabili-ty of particular language data (i.e.
Language Re-sources, LR).
The nature of these data is verymuch dependent on particular technologies andthe applications where are used.
Currently, mostsystems are using LR collected by hand that stilldo not cover all languages, or all possible appli-cation domains, or all possible information re-quired by the many applications that are beingproposed.
Methods for the automatic and quickdevelopment of new LR have to be developed inorder to guarantee a supply of the required data.Esuli and Sebastiani (2006) did a classificationexperiment for creating lexica for opinion min-ing, for instance, and the importance of lexicalinformation for event extraction in Biomedicaltexts has been addressed in Fillmore et al(2006).
One way of producing such resources isto classify words into lexical classes via methodsbased on their morphosyntactic contexts of oc-currence.In the next three sections we report on an ex-periment on cue-based lexical classification fornon-deverbal event nouns, that is, nouns such as?party?
or ?conflict?, which refer to an event butcannot be identified by their morphology, as isthe case with deverbal nouns such as ?construc-tion?.
The purpose of this experiment was, asalready stated, to investigate methods for therapid generation of an event nouns lexicon fortwo different languages, using a reduced quanti-ty of available texts.
Assuming that linguisticinformation can be provided by occurrence dis-tribution, as is usually done in linguistic theoryto motivate lexical classes (e.g.
Grimshaw,1990), cue information has been gathered fromtexts and used to train and test a Decision Tree-based classifier.
We experimented with two dif-ferent languages to test the potential coverage ofthe proposed technique in terms of its adaptationto different languages, and also used differenttypes of corpora to test its adaptability to differ-ent domains and sizes.2 Some properties of on-DeverbalEvent ouns in Spanish and English.We based our experiment on the work by Resnik(2004) who proposes a specific lexical class forSpanish event nouns like accidente (?accident?
)or guerra (?war?)
which cannot be identified bysuffixes such as ?-ci?n?
(?-tion?)
or ?miento?
(?-ment?
), i.e.
the morphological marks of deverbalderivation.
Her proposal of creating a new classis motivated by the syntactic behaviour of thesenon-deverbal event nouns that differ significant-ly both from deverbal nominalizations and fromnon event nouns.
This proposal differs signifi-cantly from work such as Grimshaw (1990).In Grimshaw (1990) a significant difference isshown to exist between process and result no-minals, evident in certain ambiguous nouns suchas building, which can have a process reading ?46in a sentence like The building of the accessroad took three weeks (= 'process of building')?and a non-eventive or result reading ?in a sen-tence like The building collapsed (= 'edifice').These two types of nominals differ in many lex-ico-syntactic properties, such as the obligato-ry/optional internal argument realization, themanner of external argument realization, the de-terminer selection and their ability to controlinfinitival clauses.
Simple event nouns such astrip share several syntactic properties with resultnominals, although their lexical meaning is in-deed similar to that of the process or complexevent nouns.
The main difference is the fact thatresult nominals and simple event nouns, contraryto complex event nominals, are not verb-like inthe way they combine with their satellites(Grimshaw 1990).
The similarity between resultnominals and simple event nouns is accepted inPicallo's (1991, 1999) analysis of Catalan andSpanish nominalizations and in Alexiadou's(2001) work on nominalizations in Greek, Eng-lish, Hebrew and other languages.Although the similarities between non-deverbal event nouns like accidente and resultnominals are undeniable, some evidence (Res-nik, 2004 and 2009) has been found that non-deverbal event nouns cannot be assimilated toeither result nominals or simple non event nounslike tren (?train?
), in spite of their shared proper-ties.
In the next sections, we briefly present evi-dence that non-deverbal event nouns are a sepa-rate lexical class and that this evidence can beused for identifying the members of this classautomatically, both in Spanish and in English.Our hypothesis is that whenever there is a lexicalclass motivated by a particular distributional be-haviour, a learner can be trained to identify themembers of this class.
However, there are twomain problems to lexical classification: noiseand silence, as we will see in section 4.Resnik (2004) shows that non-deverbal eventnouns occur in a unique combination of syntac-tic patterns: they are basically similar to resultnouns (and simple non event nouns) regardingthe realization of argument structure, yet theypattern along process nominals regarding eventstructure, given that they accept the same rangeof aspectual adjuncts and quantifiers as thesenouns and are selected as subjects by the same?aspectual?
verbs (empezar, ?to start?
; durar, ?tolast?, etc.)
(cf.
section 3.2).
As to other nominalproperties, such as the mass/count distinction,the contexts show that non-deverbal event nounsare not quite like either of the two kinds of no-minalizations, and they behave like simple nonevent nouns.
The table below summarizes thelexico-syntactic properties of the different nounsdescribed by Grimshaw (1990) with the additionof Resnik?s proposed new one.NDV E N(war)PR-N(construction=event)RES-N(construction=result.
obj.
)NEN(map)Obligatoryinternal ar-gumentno yes no NoExternalargumentrealizationgenitiveDPPP_by genitiveDPgenitiveDPSubject ofaspectualverbs(begin, last..)yes yes no noAspectualquantifier(a period of)yes yes no noComplementof during, ?yes yes no noCount/mass(determiners,plural forms)mass/count mass count mass/countTable 1.
Lexico-syntactic properties of Eng-lish Non-Deverbal Event Nouns (NDV E N),Process Nouns (PR-N) and Result Nouns (RES-N) and Non Event Nouns (NEN).3 Automatic Detection of on-deverbalEvent ounsWe have referred to the singularities of non-deverbal event nouns as a lexical class in con-trast with other event and non-event nouns.
Inour experiment, we have extracted the characte-ristics of the contexts where we hypothesize thatmembers of this class occur and we have usedthem as variables to train an automatic learnerthat can rely on these features to automaticallyclassify words into those which are indeed non-deverbal event nouns and those which are not.Because deverbal result nouns are easily identi-fiable by the nominal suffix they bear (for in-stance, ?-tion?
for English and ?-ci?n?
for Span-ish), our experiment has been centered in sepa-rating non-deverbal event nouns like guerra/warfrom non event nouns like tren/train.47Some work related to our experiments can befound in the literature dealing with the identifi-cation of new events for broadcast news and se-mantic annotation of texts, which are two possi-ble applications of automatic event detection(Allan et al 1998 and Saur?
et al 2005, respec-tively, for example).
For these systems, howev-er, it would be difficult to find non-deverbalevent nouns because of the absence of morpho-logical suffixes, and therefore they could benefitfrom our learner.3.1 Cue-based Lexical Information Acqui-sitionAccording to the linguistic tradition, words thatcan be inserted in the same contexts can be saidto belong to the same class.
Thus, lexical classesare linguistic generalizations drawn from thecharacteristics of the contexts where a number ofwords tend to appear.
Consequently, one of theapproaches to lexical acquisition proposes toclassify words taking as input characteristics ofthe contexts where words of the same class oc-cur.
The idea behind this is that differences inthe distribution of the contexts will separatewords in different classes, e.g.
the class of tran-sitive verbs will show up in passive construc-tions, while the intransitive verbs will not.
Thus,the whole set of occurrences (tokens) of a wordare taken as cues for defining its class (the classof the type), either because the word is observedin a number of particular contexts or because itis not.
Selected references for this approach are:Brent, 1993; Merlo and Stevenson, 2001; Bald-win and Bond, 2003; Baldwin, 2005; Joanis andStevenson, 2003; Joanis et al 2007.Different supervised Machine Learning (ML)techniques have been applied to cue-based lexi-cal acquisition.
A learner is supplied with classi-fied examples of words represented by numeri-cal information about matched and not matchedcues.
The final exercise is to confirm that thedata characterized by the linguistically moti-vated cues support indeed the division into theproposed classes.
This was the approach takenby Merlo and Stevenson (2001), who workedwith a Decision Tree and selected linguistic cuesto classify English verbs into three classes: un-accusative, unergative and object-drop.
Anima-cy of the subject, for instance, is a significantcue for the class of object dropping verbs, incontrast with verbs in unergative and unaccusa-tive classes.
Baldwin and Bond (2003) used anumber of linguistic cues (i.e.
co-occurence withparticular determiners, number, etc.)
to learn thecountability of English nouns.
Bel et al (2007)proposed a number of cues for classifying nounsinto different types according to a lexical typol-ogy.
The need for using more general cues hasalso been pointed out, such as the part of speechtags of neighboring words (Baldwin, 2005), orgeneral linguistic information as in Joanis et al(2007), who used the frequency of filled syntac-tic positions or slots, tense and voice features,etc., to describe the whole system of Englishverbal classes.3.2 Cues for the Detection of on-deverbalEvent ouns in SpanishAs we have seen in section 2, non-deverbalevent nouns can be identified by their occur-rence in particular syntactic and lexical contextsof co-occurrence.We have used 11 cues for sepa-rating non-deverbal event nouns from non eventnouns in Spanish.
These cues are the following:Cues 1-3.
Nouns occurring in PPs headed byprepositions such as durante (?during?
), hasta elfinal de (?until the end of?
), desde el principio de(?from the beginning of?
), and similar expres-sions are considered to be eventive.
Thus, occur-rence after one of such expressions will be in-dicative of an event noun.Cues 4-8.
Nouns occurring as external or in-ternal arguments of verbs such as ocurrir (?oc-cur?
), producir (?produce?
or ?occur?, in the caseof ergative variant producirse), celebrar (?cele-brate?
), and others with similar meanings, arealso events.
Note that we identify as ?externalarguments?
the  nouns occurring immediatelyafter the verb in particular constructions, as ourpos- tagged text does not contain informationabout subjects (see below).
In many cases it isthe internal argument occurring in these con-texts.
These verbs tend to appear in ?presenta-tive?
constructions such as Se produjo un acci-dente (?An accident occurred?
), with the pronounse signalling the lack of external argument.Verbs like ocurrir appear in participial absoluteconstructions or with participial adjectives,which means they are unaccusatives.Cue 9.
The presence of temporal quantifyingexpressions such as dos semanas de (?two weeks48of?)
or similar would indicate the eventive cha-racter of a noun occurring with it, as mentionedin section 2.Cue 10.
Non-deverbal event nouns will not bein Prepositional Phrases headed by locative pre-positions such as encima de (?on top of?)
or de-bajo de (?under?).
These cues are used as nega-tive evidence for non-event deverbal nouns.Cue 11.
Non-deverbal event nouns do have anexternal argument that can also be realized as anadjective.
The alternation of DP arguments withadjectives was then a good cue for detectingnon-deverbal events, even when some othernouns may appear in this context as well.
Forinstance: fiesta nacional (?national party?)
vs.mapa nacional  (?national map?
).3.3 Cues for the Detection of on-DeverbalEvent ouns in EnglishAs for Spanish, cues for English were meant toseparate the newly proposed class of non-deverbal event nouns from non-event nouns ifsuch a class exists as well.Cues 1-3.
Process nominals and non-deverbalevent nouns can be identified by appearing ascomplements of aspectual PPs headed by prepo-sitions like during, after and before, and com-plex prepositions such as at the end of and at thebeginning of.Cues 4 and 5.
Non-deverbal nouns may occuras external or internal arguments of aspectual aswell as occurrence verbs such as initiate, takeplace, happen, begin, and occur.
Those argu-ments are identified either as subjects of activeor passive sentences, depending on the verb, i.e.the therapy was initiated and the conflict tookplace.Cue 6.
Likewise, nouns occurring in expres-sions such as frequency of, occurrence of andperiod of would probably be event nouns, i.e.
thefrequency of droughts.Cue 7 and 8.
Event nouns may as well appearas objects of aspectual and time-related verbs,such as in have begun a campaign or have car-ried out a campaign.Cues 10 and 11.
They are intended to registerevent nouns whose external argument, althoughoptional, is realized as a genitive complement,e.g.
enzyme?s loss, even though this cue isshared with other types of nouns.
Following thecharacterization suggested for Spanish, we alsotried external arguments realized as adjectives incue 11, as in !apoleonic war, but we found em-pirical evidence that it is not useful.Cues 12-16.
Finally, as in the experiment forSpanish, we have also included evidence that ismore common for non-event nouns, that is, wehave used negative evidence to tackle the prob-lem of sparse data or silence discussed in thenext section.
It is considered a negative cue for anoun to be preceded by an indefinite determiner,to be in a PP headed by a locative preposition,and to be followed by the prepositions by or of,as a PP headed by one these prepositions couldbe an external argument and, as it has been notedabove, the external argument of event nounstends to be realized as a genitive complement (asin John?s trip/party).In the selection of these cues, we have con-centrated on those that separate the class of non-deverbal event nouns from the class formed bysimple non event nouns like train, where no par-ticular deverbal suffix can assist their detection.If it is the case that these are really cues for de-tecting non-deverbal event nouns, the learnershould confirm it by classifying non-deverbalevent nouns correctly, separating them from oth-er types of nouns.4 Experiment and resultsFor our experiments we have used Regular Ex-pressions to implement the patterns just men-tioned, which look for the intended cues in apart-of-speech tagged corpus.
We have used acorpus of 21M tokens from two Spanish news-papers (El Pa?s and La Vanguardia), and anEnglish technical corpus made of texts dealingwith varying subject matter (Economy, Medi-cine, Computer science and Environmental is-sues), of about 3.2M tokens.
Both Spanish andEnglish corpora are part of the Technical Corpusof IULA at the UPF (CT-IULA, Cabr?
et al2006).
The positive or negative results of the n-pattern checking in all the occurrences of a wordare stored in an n-dimension vector.
Thus, a sin-gle vector summarizes all the occurrences of aword (the type) by encoding how many timeseach cue has been observed.
Zero values, i.e.
nomatching, are also registered.We used a Decision Tree (DT) classifier inthe Weka (Witten and Frank, 2005) implementa-tion of pruned C4.5 decision tree (Quinlan,491993).
The DT performs a general to specificsearch in a feature space, selecting the most in-formative attributes for a tree structure as thesearch proceeds.
The goal is to select the minim-al set of attributes that efficiently partitions thefeature space into classes of observations andassemble them into a tree.
During the experi-ment, we tuned the list of cues actually used inthe classification task, because some of themturned out to be useless, as they did not show upeven once in the corpus.
This was especially truefor the English corpus with cues 5, 11 and 12.Note that the English corpus is only 3.2 millionwords.In the experiment we used a 10-fold cross-validation testing using manually annotatedgold-standard files made of 99 non-event and100 non-deverbal event nouns  for Spanish and93 non event and 74 non-deverbal event nounsfor English1.
In this first experiment, we decidedto use mostly non-deverbal non event nounssuch as map, because detecting result nouns likeconstruction is easy enough, due to the deverbalsuffix.
However, for the English experiment, andbecause of the scarcity of non-deverbal nounsoccurrences, we had to randomly select somedeverbals that were not recognized by the suffix.The results of our experiment gave a total ac-curacy of 80% for Spanish and 79.6% for Eng-lish, which leads to think that corpus size is not a1Positive: accident, assembly, audience, battle, boycott,campaign, catastrophe, ceremony, cold, collapse, confe-rence, conflict, course, crime, crisis, cycle, cyclone, change,choice, decline, disease, disaster, drought, earthquake, epi-demic, event, excursion, fair, famine, feast, festival, fever,fight, fire, flight, flood, growth, holiday, hurricane, impact,incident, increase, injury, interview, journey, lecture, loss,meal, measurement, meiosis, marriage, mitosis, monsoon,period, process, program, quake, response, seminar, snows-torm, speech, storm, strike, struggle, summit, symposium,therapy, tour, treaty, trial, trip, vacation, war.
egative:agency, airport, animal, architecture, bag, battery, bird,bridge, bus, canal, circle, city, climate, community, compa-ny, computer, constitution, country, creature, customer,chain, chair, channel, characteristic, child, defence, direc-tor, drug, economy, ecosystem, energy, face, family, firm,folder, food, grade, grant, group, health, hope, hospital,house, illusion, information, intelligence, internet, island,malaria, mammal, map, market, mountain, nation, nature,ocean, office, organism, pencil, people, perspective, phone,pipe, plan, plant, profile, profit, reserve, river, role, satellite,school, sea, shape, source, space, star, statistics, store, tech-nology, television, temperature, theme, theory, tree, medi-cine, tube, university, visa, visitor, water, weather, window,world.determinant factor and that this method can beused for addressing different languages, pro-vided a good characterization of the lexical classin terms of particular occurrence distributions isachieved.
Yet, although the accuracy of bothEnglish and Spanish test sets is similar, we willsee later on that the size of the corpus does in-deed affect the results.An analysis of the errors shows that they canbe classified in two groups: errors due to noise,and errors due to silence.
(i) Noise.
In his seminal work, Brent (1993)already pointed out that ?the cues occur in con-texts that were not aimed at?.
Noise can be dueto errors in processing the text, because we hadonly used low-level analysis tools.
For instance,in ?during the first world war?
our RE cannotdetect that ?world?
is not the head of the NounPhrase.
Brent?s hypothesis, followed by mostauthors afterwards, is that noise can be eliminat-ed by statistical methods because of its low fre-quency.
However, the fact is that in our test setsignificant information is as sparse as noise, andthe DT cannot correctly handle this.
In our datasets, most of the false positives are due to noise.
(ii) Silence.
Some nouns appear only once ortwice in the corpus and do not show up in any ofthe sought contexts (for instance, terremoto,?earthquake?, in Spanish press).
Moreover, thisis independent of the size of the corpus, becausethe Zipfian distribution of tokens allows us topredict that there will always be low-frequencynouns.
Low frequency words produce non in-formative vectors, with only zero-valued cues,and our classifier tends to classify non-informative vectors as non-event nouns, becausemost of the cues have been issued to identifyevent nouns.
This was the main reason to intro-duce negative contexts as well as positive ones,as we mentioned in section 3.However, these systematic sources of errorcan be taken as an advantage when assessing theusability of the resulting resources.
Havingabout 80% of accuracy would not be enough toensure the proper functioning of the applicationin which the resource is going to be used.
So, inorder to gain precision, we decided to separatethe set of words that could be safely taken ascorrectly classified.
Thus, we had used the con-fidence, i.e.
probability of the classification de-50cisions to assess which are below a reasonablelevel of confidence.In the Spanish test set, for instance, precisionof the positive classification, i.e.
the percentageof words correctly classified as event nouns,raises from 0.82 to 0.95 when only instances ofclassification with a confidence of more than 0.8are selected.
In the figure below, we can see theprecision curve for the Spanish test set.Figure 1: Precision curvefor the Spanish test set.In general, precision is higher when confi-dence is higher, except for complete confidence,1, as we will explain later with the English case.This general behavior could be interpreted as aguarantee that there is a significant number ofclassified nouns (87 out of 199 for the Spanishtest set with a threshold of 0.8 confidence) thatneed not to be manually reviewed, i.e.
a 43% ofthe automatically acquired lexica can safely beconsidered correct.
From figure 1, we can alsosee that the classifier is consistently identifyingthe class of non-deverbal event nouns even witha lower threshold.
However, the resulting non-event noun set contains a significant number oferrors.
From the point of view of the usability,we could also say that only those words that areclassified as non-event nouns must be revised.Figure 2 for English test set shows a differentbehavior, which can only be justified because ofthe difference in corpus size.
A small corpusincreases the significance of silence errors.
Few-er examples give less information to the classifi-er, which still makes the right decisions but withless confidence in general.
However, for the ex-treme cases, for instance the case of 7 word vec-tors with only zero-values, the confidence isvery high, that is 1, but the decisions are wrong.These cases of mostly zero values are wronglyconsidered to be non-events.
This is the reasonfor the low precision of very confident decisionsin English, i.e.
sparse data and its consequence,silence.Figure 2: Precision curvefor the English test set.5 ConclusionsIn this paper we have proposed the use of lexicalclassification methods based on differences inthe distributional behavior of word classes forthe quick production of lexica containing theinformation required by particular applications.We have dealt with non-deverbal event nouns,which cannot be easily recognized by any suf-fixes, and we have carried out a classificationexperiment, which consisted in training a DTwith the information used in the linguistic litera-ture to justify the existence of this class.
Theresults of the classifier, close to 80% accuracy intwo different languages and with different sizeand types of source corpora, show the validity ofthis very simple approach, which can be decisivein the production of lexica with the knowledgerequired by different technologies and applica-tions in a time-efficient way.
From the point ofview of usability, this approach can be said toreduce the amount of work in more than a 40%.AcknowledgementsWe want to thank Muntsa Padr?
for her valu-able contribution.
This work was partially sup-ported by the PANACEA project (EU-7FP-ITC-248064).51ReferencesAlexiadou, A.
(2001).
Functional Structure in No-minals: Nominalization and Ergativity.
Amster-dam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins PublishingCompany.Allan, J.; Papka, R.; Lavrenko, V. (1998).
On-lineNew Event Detection and Tracking.
SIGIR98,Melbourne, Australia.Baldwin, T. and F. Bond.
2003.
?Learning the Coun-tability of English Nouns from Corpus Data?.
Pro-ceedings of the 41st.
Annual Meeting of the Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics, Sapporo, Ja-pan.Baldwin, T. 2005.
General-Purpose Lexical Acquisi-tion: Procedures, Questions and Results, In Pro-ceedings of the Pacific Association for Computa-tional Linguistics 2005, Tokyo, JapanBel, N.; Espeja, S.; Marimon, M. 2007.
AutomaticAcquisition of Grammatical Types for Nouns.
In HLT 2007: The Conference of the !AACL.
Compa-nion Volume, Short Papers.
Rochester, USA.Brent, M. R. 1993, ?From grammar to lexicon: unsu-pervised learning of lexical syntax?.
Computatio-nal Linguistics 19: 243-262.Cabr?, M. T.; Bach, C.; Vivaldi, J.
2006.
10 anys delCorpus de l'IULA.
Barcelona: Institut Universitaride Ling?
?stica Aplicada.
Universitat Pompeu FabraEsuli, A. and Sebastiani, F.. 2006.
Determining termsubjectivity and term orientation for opinion min-ing.
In Proceedings of EACL-06, 11th Conferenceof the European Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics, Trento, IT.Fillmore, Charles J.Srini Narayanan, and Collin F.Baker.
2006.
What Can Linguistics Contribute toEvent Extraction?
Proceedings of the 2006 AAAIWorkshop on Event Extraction and Synthesis, page18--23.Grimshaw, J.
(1990).
Argument Structure.
Cam-bridge: The MIT Press.Joanis, E; Stevenson, S; and James, D. 2007.
A Gen-eral Feature Space for Automatic Verb Classifica-tion.
!atural Language Engineering, 14.Korhonen, A.
2002.
?Subcategorization acquisition?.As Technical Report UCAM-CL-TR-530, Univer-sity of Cambridge, UK.Merlo P. and Stevenson S. 2001.
Automatic VerbClassification based on Statistical Distribution ofArgument Structure, Computational Linguis-tics, 27:3.Picallo, M. C. (1999).
?La estructura del sintagmanominal: Las nominalizaciones y otros sustantivoscon complementos argumentales?, en Bosque, I.
&V. Demonte (eds.)
Gram?tica descriptiva de lalengua espa?ola.
Madrid: Real Academia Espa?o-la / Espasa Calpe.
Vol.
1, Cap.
6, 363-394.Quinlan, R.J. 1993.
C4.5: Programs for MachineLearning.
Series in Machine Learning.
MorganKaufman, San Mateo, CA.Resnik, G. (2004).
Los nombres eventivos no dever-bales en espa?ol.
Proyecto de Tesis.
Institut Uni-versitari de Ling?
?stica Aplicada, UniversitatPompeu Fabra.Resnik, G. (2009) ?La determinaci?n de la eventivi-dad nominal en espa?ol?.
En G. Ciapuscio (ed.
)De la palabra al texto: estudios ling?
?sticos delespa?ol.
Buenos Aires: Eudeba.Saur?, R.; R. Knippen, M. Verhagen and J. Puste-jovsky.
2005.
Evita: A Robust Event Recognizerfor QA Systems.
Proceedings of HLT/EM!LP2005: 700-70Witten, I. H. and Frank E. 2005.
Data Mining: Prac-tical machine learning tools and techniques.
2ndEdition, Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco.52
