Coling 2010: Poster Volume, pages 937?945,Beijing, August 2010Word Space Modeling for Measuring Semantic Specificity in ChineseChing-Fen PanDepartment of EnglishNational Taiwan Normal Universitydebbychingxp@hotmail.comShu-Kai HsiehDepartment of EnglishNational Taiwan Normal Universityshukai@gmail.comAbstractThe aim of this study is to use theword-space model to measure the seman-tic loads of single verbs, profile verballexicon acquisition, and explore the se-mantic information on Chinese resulta-tive verb compounds (RVCs).
A distri-butional model based on Academia SinicaBalanced Corpus (ASBC) with Latent Se-mantic Analysis (LSA) is built to investi-gate the semantic space variation depend-ing on the semantic loads/specificity.
Thebetween group comparison of age-relatedchanges in verb style is then conductedto suggest the influence of semantic spaceon verbal acquisition.
Finally, it demon-strates how meaning exploring on RVCsis done with semantic space.1 IntroductionThe issue of ?word space?
has been gaining atten-tion in the field of distributional semantics, cogni-tive and computational linguistics.
Various meth-ods have been proposed to approximate words?meanings from linguistic distance.
One of themost popular models in distributional semantics isLatent Semantic Analysis (LSA) with dimension-reduction technique, Singular Value Decomposi-tion (SVD)(Landauer and Dumais, 1997; Karl-gren and Sahlgren, 2001; Sahlgren, 2002; Wid-dows et al, 2002).
The backbone of LSA isthe co-occurrence distributional model in whichwords are conceived as points scattered in a texts-built n-dimensional space(Lenci, 2008).
Ratherthan trying to predict the best performing modelfrom a set of models, this study highlights the ex-tent to which word space or semantic space mea-sured from a vector-based model can access theverbal semantics and has influence on verbal ac-quisition.This paper is organized as follows: Section 2 pro-files the variation of semantic space affected bythe semantic loads of single verbs.
Section 3discusses the correlation between the developingchange in verbal lexicon and word space from theexperimental data collected by M31 project.
Itwill reveal how semantic space facilitates earlychild verbal learning.
Section 4 demonstrates howto assess the meaning of Chinese resultative verbcompounds (RVCs) from semantic space.
The re-sults of this work are finally concluded in Section5.2 The Variation of Semantic SpaceBetween Two Verb Types (G/S) in LSAThe goal of this section is to examine the seman-tic variation between two verb types, generic ver-sus specific verbs.
It first creates a taxonomy forthe classification of various verb groups (genericverbs versus specific verbs) based on the seman-tic distance with Latent Semantic Analysis (LSA)and Cluster Analysis.2.1 Distributional Model Based on SinicaCorpusThe distributional model built in this survey isbased on the Chinese texts collected in Academia1Model and Measurement of Meaning: A Cross-lingualand Multi-disciplinary Approach of French and MandarinVerbs based on Distance in Paradigmatic Graphs.
Projectwebsite: http://140.112.147.149:81/m3/937Sinica Balanced Corpus (ASBC)2.
It includes 190files containing about 96000 word types3.
Theoriginal matrix (M ) is further decomposed intothe product of three matrices (TSDT ).
These ma-trices are then reduced into k dimensions.
In thefollowing reconstruction process based on k di-mensions, it multiplies out the truncated matricesTkSkD?k and then gets a Mk matrix (the approx-imation of X)(Landauer et al, 1998; Sahlgren,2005; Widdows and Ferraro, 2008).
The follow-ing shows an example of finding the nearest neigh-bors of the word da (?
/ to hit) via two methods(see Table 1).
For the convenience of visualizationand cluster analysis, Euclidean distance is appliedin the following study.qu ?go?
na ?take?
zhao ?find?Cosine 0.928 0.926 0.920Distance 0.377 0.382 0.397Table 1: Associating words of da ?hit?.2.2 Semantic ClusteringThe primary objective of cluster analysis is to ex-amine the formation of a taxonomy: whether Gverbs and S verbs form two groups separately.The clusters also help us grasp the semantic spaceamong verbs as well as the potential semantic re-lation of them.
Based on the distance matrix oflexical items generated in the last section, thispart applied cluster analysis on the selected 150verbs/observations4.
For the convenience of com-parison, each verb is coded with its type and a se-rial number like zuo (?/ to do) is G1 and si (?/2ASBC website:http://dbo.sinica.edu.tw/ftmsbin/kiwi1/mkiwi.sh3The hapax legomena (words occur only once in thewhole data) are not included in the matrix.
The total wordtypes including hapax amount to 220000 or so.
To avoid timeand computer consuming, we excluded those hapax from theco-occurrence matrix.4These 150 verbs are single verbs selected from the ex-perimental data.
In the previous study of classification,these verbs are divided into two types (G:generic versusS:specific).
There are 78 G verbs and 45 S verbs, along with27 U(undetermined) verbs.
It is noticeable that U verbs donot count as one type of verbs.
They are floating verbs be-tween G and S. We keep their identity as U and examine theirpotential characteristics in a binary cluster analysis.to tear) is S275.Once the similarity measure is done, thenext procedure is to combine similar verbs intogroups.
The clustering procedure starts witheach verb/observation in its own cluster, andcombines two clusters together step by step untilall the verbs are in a single cluster6 The clusterdendrogram is plotted is Figure 1, in whichclusters are formed from the bottom to the top.Figure 1 demonstrates that the highest splitseparates these verbs into two big groups: theleft branch group and right branch group drawnin different squares.
The constituents of the twobranches are listed in Table 2.
It is clear that mostof the constituent parts of the left group are Gverbs whereas S verbs count as majority in theright group.
If the left group is considered as agroup formed with G verbs and right group withS verbs, the hit ratio7 of G verbs (74.6%) is muchhigher than that of S verbs (57.1%).
The cluster-ing algorithm that we applied shows some struc-ture, but there is no accurate separation of thesetwo verb types.
A detailed investigation of the re-lationship between the verb type and the distanceis discussed in the next section.left group right groupGeneric verbs 59 (64.1%) 18 (33.3%)Specific verbs 20 (21.7%) 24 (44.5%)Undetermined verbs 13 (14.1%) 12 (22.2%)Hit ratio 74.6% 57.1%Table 2: Distribution of G/S verbs in two big clus-ters.5In fact, only 146 of 150 verbs are being classified be-cause four words are missed in Sinica Corpus.
To avoid con-fusion, we still call them 150 verbs in cluster analysis.6Agglomerative method is implemented in the processin which single points are agglomerated into larger groups.This is termed a hierarchical cluster procedure that exploresthe co-relational structure of these single verbs.
In completelinkage, all objects in a cluster are linked to each other withthe longest distance.
The use of the longest distance in com-plete linkage makes the least similar pair of objects grouptogether.
In other words, the maximum distance of the groupresults from the linkage of objects with minimum similarity.7The hit ratio is calculated as follows:hit ratio of G in the left group: 59/(59 + 20) = 74.6%hit ratio of S in the right group: 24/(18 + 24) = 57.1%It is noticeable that U verbs are temporarily ignored here.9382.3 Distance Variation in Small-G/S-clustersFollowing the line of argumentation, this sectiondemonstrates how distance varies within small-G-clusters and small-S-clusters.
In order to examinethe distance difference, small-G-cluster (or small-S-cluster) is defined as a cluster formed with thenearest twenty words of the G verb (or S verb) tar-get.8 In the example of one G verb yong (?/use)coded as G5, the closest twenty words are almostG verbs and the only one S verb is the farthestword xie (?/write) (see Figure 2).
The distanceexamination of the small cluster is applied to allof the 150 verbs studied in this survey.
Table 3has illustrated the comparison of verb types andthe distance in the small cluster.
As expected, thesemantic distance is significantly affected by theverb type of the target word in the small cluster.The distances among words in most of the small-G-clusters range between 0.4 and 0.8.
In contrast,over eighty percent small-S-clusters obtain a dis-tance from 0.8 to 1.2.
As for those U verbs whichcan not be decided as generic or specific in themanual tagging because of the lacking of agree-ment, they have distance between 0.6 and 1.
Theirdistance shows an overlap with part of G verbs andpart of S verbs.
It confirms that U verbs are in afuzzy zone between G verbs and S verbs.In summary, G verbs are words with moresenses and they appear more frequently in variouscontext.
Based on their high frequency distribu-tion, G verbs construct a solid relation with eachother in small-G-clusters.
In contrast, S verbs are8In order to test the representative power of small-clusterswith 20 words, we have examined the clusters with 25 and30 words as well.
In all of the cases, the curves in 20-wordcluster don?t change significantly when the sample size is setto 25 or 30.
The small-G/S-clusters with the sample size(N=20) is justified as representative.Figure 2: The small-G-cluster of yong (?/use).words with restricted meanings and they have rel-atively limited distributional patterns.
Due to theirlow variety of patterns, S verbs are not easy tohave tight relations with other words.
It showsthat words with generic meaning have high dis-tribution variety and the distances among themare much shorter.
The lack of polysemous fea-ture makes the specific verbs be short of vari-ous distributional patterns and lose the opportu-nities to form close semantic relation with oth-ers.
The semantic space among G verbs is shortenough to form a solid cluster whereas S verbsare relatively remote from each other in seman-tic space.
The distance of each verb cluster canhelp assess the verb category as generic (G) orspecific (S).
Approximately 75% of generic verbsform small clusters with distance lower than 0.8while more than 80% of specific verbs acquire aFigure 1: Agglomerative hierarchical cluster analysis of 150 verbs.939distance greater than 0.8 .
As to the verbs of inde-terminacy, they are averagely scattered in a fuzzyzone between G and S verbs.
Over 70% U verbsare centering the distance 0.8, which suggests thatwords near distance 0.8 are likely to be undeter-mined verbs.
This analysis has proved that seman-tic space varies in accordance with verb?s meaningspecificity.
The distributions in context representnot only the linguistic behaviors but the semanticcontents of lexical items.3 The Influence of Specificity onAcquisitionThis section assesses the influence of semanticspace on the acquisition of the verbal lexicon.With the examination of Specific verb (S verb)progress, this study proposes that Generic verbs(G verbs) are acquired earlier than S verbs dueto the closer semantic space.
It also testifieswhether the S verb development is a developingtrend parallel with the acquisition of conventionalverbs(Chen et al, 2008; Hsieh et al, 2009)9 fromthe experimental data collected by M3 project.Based on the developing trend of conventionallexical items, the following parts analyze therelation of meaning specificity and the acquisitionof lexical items.3.1 Decreasing in Lexical VariationThe section is concerned with lexical variationamong participants within the same age group.9They rearranged the five groups of participants into threeunits and then investigated the learning trend by ReplacingRate (Frequency of V 2freq / Frequency of V 1freq ).
Bydefining adults?
usages as the conventional one called V1,children?s second highest frequency verb is counted as V2.Along with the increase of age, the number of V2 dropsslowly whereas the amount of V1 increases gradually.It measures type-token ratios of each groupand profiles the lexical variation10 in verbalacquisition.
Data analyzed in this part includefive groups of respondents?
usages of verbs tofour different films, each of which pictures oneevent.
Respondents are assigned into five groupsaccording to their age: 3-year-old, 5-year-old,7-year-old, and 9-year-old groups have 20 respon-dents separately while 60 respondents are in theAdult group composed of people in their twenties.In respondents?
answers, only one single verb isextracted from each respondent in this study.
Thenumber of verbs in each group is equal to theamount of participants.
The first analysis beginswith the lexical variation or lexical flexibilityin these five groups.
It is done with the ratioof lexical variation: the amount of word type isdivided by the amount of word token, as shownin Table 4.
The greater number of the ratio meansthe lexical variation is more abundant and thesmaller ratio means a low diversity of word types.The ratio of lexical variation in these four films allshow a decreasing trend from 3-year-old groupsto adult groups.
The quantity of different verbsis higher in children group (3y, 5y,7y, 9y) thanthat in adult group.
That is, children appear morecreative in event description tasks while adultsare confined in the conventional usage.
With thedecreasing trend of lexical variety, the next stepis to propose an increasing trend of specific verb10Lexical diversity or sometimes called lexical variationis used to mean a combination of lexical variation and lex-ical sophistication.
It is also referred to an indication of acombination of vocabulary size and the ability to use it ef-fectively(Malvern et al, 2004).
However, lexical variation orlexical diversity doesn?t mean lexical richness in this study.In other kinds of experiment like writing tests, adults shouldperform better than children in lexical diversity.
But the ex-perimental data applied in this study is action-naming task.The trend of lexical variation may perform in an oppositeway.Distance 0.4-0.6 0.6-0.8 0.8-1.0 1.0-1.2Small-G-cluster 24 (31.2%) 32 (41.6%) 17 (22.0%) 4 (5.2%)Total:72.8% Total:27.2%Small-S-cluster 0 (0) 6 (13.6%) 19 (43.2%) 19 (43.2%)Total:13.6% Total:86.4%Small-U-cluster 1 (4%) 8 (32%) 11 (44%) 5 (20%)Table 3: Comparison of verb types (G/S) and semantic distance within small cluster.940usage when the age raises.
It will show that thechange is from various generic verbs to one ortwo specific verbs rather than various specificverbs.Films carrot-peelpaper-crumpleplank-sawglass-break3y 0.35 0.55 0.2 0.335y 0.25 0.47 0.2 0.27y 0.3 0.2 0.25 0.19y 0.21 0.105 0.157 0.157Adult 0.016 0.083 0.066 0.066Table 4: The ratio of lexical variation (ratio =word type/word token).3.2 Increasing in Specific VerbsWith regard to the aim of the investigation, thefindings reported above provide evidence of thechanging trend of lexical variety in action-namingtasks.
The next step is to discover the developingtrend of verb type (G/S) usage.
According to theannotation result of verb category, each verb in thedata is now transferred into either generic (label asG or 1) or specific (S or -1) and the proportions ofS verbs is plotted as Figure 3.3.2.1 The Non-proportionality of S Verbamong Age GroupsA closer investigation is then implemented fornon-proportionalities by chi-squared test(Baayen,2008).
Although the proportion of S verb changesmore or less in different groups, it is still need toconfirm that whether S verbs are more frequentlyused by adults than children.
The hypothesis isformulated as follows:H0: The proportions of the two verbtypes (G verb vs. S verb ) do NOT varyin five age groups.With Pearson?s chi-square test for four setsof data.
It is reported that the small p-values(9.779e-07, 1.324e-09, and 1.191e-13) in thefirst three sets of data (carrot-peel (f 6), paper-crumple (f 2), and plank-saw (f 16)) suggest anon-proportionality of S verb in different agegroups.
However, the p-value (0.8467) obtainedin the last data set (glass-break (f 3)) is tooFigure 3: The proportion of S (-1) verbs to G (1)verbs from 5 groups of respondents to four events.large to suggest a significant variation of S verbproportion in different age groups.
It provesthat the proportions of S verb change with theparticipant?s age in the three event-naming tasksbut that doesn?t happen in the glass-break (f 3)event.
Except for the data in glass-break (f 3)event, the null hypothesis doesn?t hold in theanalysis.3.2.2 The Relationship between S Verb andAgeIn order to test the correlation of S verbproportion and age variation, four groups (3y, 5y,7y, 9y) are merged into one group called Childversus Adult group.
The data are now representedby two by two contingency tables with onecategorical dependent variable (verb types) andone categorical independent variable (age).
Heresummarizes the hypothesis:H0: The frequency of the two verb types(G verb vs. S verb, the dependentvariable) do NOT vary depending onparticipants?
age (Child vs. Adult,the independent variable).The result has shown that the small p-values(2.803e-05, 0.001225, 1.754e-12) verify thesignificant difference of S verb in Child group941and Adult group with regard to the three datasets in carrot-peel (f 6), paper-crumple (f 2), andplank-saw (f 16).
Along with the correlationexamination, the effect size is revealed withcorrelation coefficient from 0 (no correlation) to1 (perfect correlation)(Gries, 2009).
Accordingto the Phi value in this table, only the data inplank-saw (f 16) has a correlation coefficient(0.612) greater than 0.5.
That is, the correlationbetween S verb usage and age group is consideredas significantly correlated in the one data set(plank-saw (f 16)).
As for the other two data sets(carrot-peel (f 6) with phi:0.379, paper-crumple(f 2) with phi: 0.297), the correlation is notparticularly strong but it is still highly significant.Over half of the data sets exhibit a significantnon-proportionality of S verb usage in differentage groups but the correlation of S verb andparticipants?
age requires.In relation to the aim of this study, it has shownthat meaning specificity functions as a factor inthe development of verbal lexicon.
The results ofthe analysis also show a significant variety of Sverb between children and adults.
It is plausibleto suppose that verbs with specific meaning areacquired later than those with generic meanings.This developing trend suggests that a closer se-mantic space among G verbs facilitates the acqui-sition of verb meanings whereas a distant spaceamong S verbs causes difficulties in meaning ac-quiring.
Once those verbs with specific meaningsare picked up, most of them will become the so-called conventional verbs.
When the conventionaluse to an action is a specific verb, the progress ofS verb usage is more obvious.
The usage of verbswith specificity meaning is a developing trend oflanguage acquisition.4 Meaning Exploring on ChineseResultative Verb Compounds (RVCs)In the verb-event co-occurrence matrix, verbselicited from the same event are considered tobe verbs have the same object in a verb-objectco-occurrence matrix.
With the distributionalmodel, it then shows how meaning specificity af-fects the linguistic behavior and semantic contentof Chinese resultative verb compounds (RVCs).Those RVCs with similar distributional patternswill present a high semantic relation.
This se-mantic relation could result from the meaning ofthe first verbal morpheme (Vcaus) or the secondone (Vres).
It is further proposed that the verbtype (generic or specific) of Vcaus would affect thewhole meaning content of V-V compounds.4.1 The RVC Structure in the DataA Chinese resultative verb compound (RVC) con-sists two main elements: the first element (Vcaus)expresses a causing event or a state while the sec-ond element (Vres) denotes a resulting event or theaspectual properties of the object.
According tothe Aspectual Interface Hypothesis(Tenny, 1989),the property of an internal argument can measureout the event.
In the Chinese example, da-po bo-li(????
/ hit-break glass), the state of the objectbo-li (??
/ glass) is changed into smashed andthis change points out an end point of the event.The resultative po (?
/ broken) is an delimitingexpression which refers to the property of the ob-ject.
In addition to defining the second elementof an RVC as a delimiting expression, other sur-veys label it as Vres which requires the saturationof arguments.
Four possible V-V compound argu-ment structures are proposed in Li?s (1990) works.In the following studies, most of RVCs requirean argument structure like (1).
The first verbalmorpheme (Vcaus) has a theta-grid <1, 2> andthe second morpheme (Vres) has <1?>.
Vcaus re-quires an external argument (a person) and an in-ternal argument (a glass).
The internal argument(a glass) is identified with the argument of Vres.Since the internal argument of Vcaus has to beidentified with the argument of Vres, it raises theissue that which one functions more prominent inchoosing the object of a V-V compound.
From thestudy of RVCs?
distributional pattern, it examineswhich one (Vcaus or Vres) is more salient and alsodominates the argument selection of a V-V com-pound.942(1) V < 1, 2-1?
> (da-po bo-li)Vcauseda< 1, 2 >< person, glass >Vrespo< 1?>< glass >4.2 Semantic AssessmentThe semantic links among words are built by mea-suring the linguistic distances among them.
In or-der to examine the semantic information of RVCs,a sub-sample with thirty-six verbs is selected to docluster tasks.
The semantic relationships of wordin the sub-sample is visualized as a clustering tree,as shown in Figure 4.
The figure shows that anRVC with a G verb as its Vcaus (GVcaus ?
Vres)build a close relation with other RVCs which havethe same Vres with it.
Take the most extreme Gverb da (?/hit)as an example, da-lan (?
?/hit-ruin) is closer to pai-lan (?
?/hit with palm andruin) than da (?/hit).
On the other hand, anRVC with an S verb as its Vcaus (SVcaus ?
Vres),are grouped with those having the same Vcaus.The RVC, ju-kai (?
?/saw-open), with a S verbju (?/saw) as its head, forms a cluster with ju(?/saw) and ju-duan (?
?/saw-crack).Figure 4: Semantic clustering of selected verbs.With regard to the semantic relation of RVCsshown in the cluster plot, the next step is to jus-tify the proportion of RVCs with the structureGVcaus ?
Vres in which Vres selects a G verb asits Vcause.
As Table 5 shows, the proportion ofGVcaus ?
Vres and SVcaus ?
Vres is 50% respec-tively.
That is, half of the selected seven Vres pickup a G verbs as its head while the other half wordsgo with S verbs.
Those Vres preferring a G headto a S head are sui, po, lan, duan; those prefer-ring a S verb to a G verb head are kai, diao, xia.According to the semantic content these resulta-tive verbs, kai, diao, xia describes the directionof the action and the motion of objects and theyare defined as ?path?
Vres in Ma and Lu?s (1997)work.
As for sui, po, lan, duan called as ?result?Vres, they mainly express the result of the objectaffected by the action.
The outcome reported heresuggests that ?result?
Vres is apt to have a G verbas its head verb whereas ?path?
Vres tends to pickup a S head verb.
The proposal in literatures thatVres tends to choose a G head verb is justified asvalid when the Vres expresses the meaning of ?re-sult?
rather than ?path.
?GVcaus SVcaus?result?
Vressui (?/smash) da, nong,pai, ya, qiaosi?
po (?/break) da, nong, ya,qiaosi, cilan (?/ruin) da, pai si?duan (?/crack) qie ?Proportion 47% 15%?path?
Vreskai (?/open) qie zhe, ju, si,bo?diao (?/fall) zhe, ju, si, boxia (?/down) boProportion 3% 35%Table 5: GVcaus ?
Vres versus SVcaus ?
Vres.In summary, words with small distance re-sulting from their similar distributional patternscan be interpreted to be semantically similarin a semantic cluster.
The result of semanticclustering has suggested that the meaning ofRVCs depend on either the Vcaus or the Vres.
Themeaning of GVcaus ?
Vres is more determinedby Vres because GVcaus is more polysemous andthe Vres becomes a prominent role to dominatethe meaning of GVcaus ?
Vres.
In contrast,SVcaus?Vres focuses on the part of SVcaus since943SVcaus expresses its meaning specific enough.In addition, the property of Vres also affects thecategory of its head verb.
When Vres like suibelong to the ?result?
Vres, it tend to choose a Gverb as its Vcaus.
On the other hand, the ?path?Vres like xia, its head verb is apt to be a S verb.
Itis suggested that ?path?
Vres is more likely to havea G verb than ?path?
Vres.
As the empirical studyillustrates the semantic information on ChineseRVCs are affected by the semantic space of words.5 ConclusionIn this paper, we argue the following points:firstly, the distributional model shows that the se-mantic space differ clearly in accordance with thespecificity of verbs.
The G verbs form tight re-lations with each other and become a larger clus-ter whereas the semantic space among S verbs istoo distant to become a solid group.
Secondly,semantic space has influence on the acquiring ofwords?
meanings.
Generic verbs are earlier andeasier acquired due to the closer semantic spaceamong words.
The developing trend of specificverb lexicon parallel with conventional usage sug-gests a language acquisition phenomenon.
Fi-nally, the G/S verbs play an influential role in Chi-nese resultative compounds.
The resultative verbbecomes more prominent when the first verb iswith a generic meaning.
The ?result?
Vres is aptto have a G verb as its head verb whereas ?path?Vres tends to pick up a S head verb.
We believethat results of our analysis will shed light on se-mantic assessment and make predictions for lexi-cal acquisition.ReferencesBaayen, R. H. 2008.
Analyzing Linguistic Data: APractical Introduction to Statistics using R. Cam-bridge University Press.Chen, P., M.-A.
Parente, K. Duvignau, L. Tonietto, andB.
Gaume.
2008.
Semantic approximations in theearly verbal lexicon acquisition of chinese: Flexi-bility against error.
The 7th Workshop on ChineseLexical Semantics.Gries, Stefan Thomas.
2009.
Quantitative CorpusLinguistics with R: A Practical Intriduction.
Rout-ledge.Hsieh, Shu-Kai, Chun-Han Chang, Ivy Kuo, HintatCheung, Chu-Ren Huang, and Bruno Gaume.
2009.Bridging the gap between graph modeling and de-velopmental psycholinguistics: An experiment onmeasuring lexical proximity in chinese semanticspace.
Presented at The 23rd Pacific Asia Confer-ence on Language, Information and Computation(PACLIC 23).
Hong Kong: City University of HongKong., December 3-5.Karlgren, J. and M. Sahlgren.
2001.
From wordsto understanding.
In Uesaka, Y., Kanerva P. andH.
Asoh, editors, Foundations of Real-World Intel-ligence, pages 294?308.Landauer, T. K. and S. T. Dumais.
1997.
A solution toplato?s problem: The latent semantic analysis theoryof the acquisition, induction, and representation ofknowledge.
Psychological Review, 104:211?240.Landauer, T. K., P. W. Foltz, and D. Laham.
1998.Introduction to latent semantic analysis.
DiscourseProcesses, 25:259?284.Lenci, A.
2008.
Distributional semantics in linguisticand cognitive research.
From context to meaning:Distributional models of the lexicon in linguisticsand cognitive science, special issue of the ItalianJournal of Linguistics, 20/1:1?31.Li, Yafei.
1990.
On v-v compounds in chinese.
Natu-ral Language and Linguistic Theory, 8:177?207.Ma, Zhen and Jian-Ming Lu.
1997.
Xingrongci zuojieguobuyu qingkuang kaocha yi (????????????(?)).
Hanyuxuexi (????
), 1:3?7.Malvern, David D., Brian J. Richards, Ngono Chipere,and Pilar Duran.
2004.
Lexical diversity and lan-guage development : quantification and assessment.New York : Palgrave Macmillan.Sahlgren, M. 2002.
Random indexing of linguisticunits for vector-based semantic analysis.
ERCIMNews, 50.Sahlgren, Magnus.
2005.
An introduction to ran-dom indexing.
In Proceedings of the Methods andApplications of Semantic Indexing Workshop at the7th International Conference on Terminology andKnowledge Engineering (TKE).
Copenhagen, Den-mark.Tenny, Carol.
1989.
The aspectual interface hypothe-sis.
In Proceedings of NELS 18.
University of Mas-sachusetts at Amherst.Widdows, Dominic and Kathleen Ferraro.
2008.Semantic vectors: a scalable open source pack-age and online technology management applica-tion.
In Nicoletta Calzolari (Conference Chair),944Khalid Choukri, Bente Maegaard Joseph MarianiJan Odjik Stelios Piperidis Daniel Tapias, editor,Proceedings of the Sixth International LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC?08), Marrakech,Morocco.
European Language Resources Associa-tion (ELRA).Widdows, Dominic, Scott Cederberg, and BeateDorow.
2002.
Visualisation techniques foranalysing meaning.
In Fifth International Confer-ence on Text, Speech and Dialogue (TSD 5), pages107?115.
Brno, Czech Republic.945
