Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2010), pages 215?222,Beijing, August 2010An ontology-driven system for detecting global health eventsNigel CollierNational Inst.
Informaticscollier@nii.ac.jpReiko Matsuda GoodwinFordham Universityreikogoodwin@gmail.comJohn McCraeBielefeld Universityjohnmccrae@gmail.comSon DoanVanderbilt Universityson.doan@vanderbilt.eduAi KawazoeTsuda Collegezoeai@tsuda.ac.jpMike ConwayUniversity of Pittsburghconwaym@pitt.eduAsanee KawtrakulKasetart Universityak@ku.ac.thKoichi TakeuchiOkayama Universitykoichi@cs.okayama-u.ac.jpDinh DienVietNam National Universityddien66@yahoo.comAbstractText mining for global health surveillanceis an emerging technology that is gainingincreased attention from public health or-ganisations and governments.
The lackof multilingual resources such as Word-Nets specifically targeted at this task haveso far been a major bottleneck.
This pa-per reports on a major upgrade to theBioCaster Web monitoring system andits freely available multilingual ontology;improving its original design and extend-ing its coverage of diseases from 70 to 336in 12 languages.1 IntroductionThe number of countries who can sustain teamsof experts for global monitoring of human/animalhealth is limited by scarce national budgets.Whilst some countries have advanced sensor net-works, the world remains at risk from the healthimpacts of infectious diseases and environmen-tal accidents.
As seen by the recent A(H5N1),A(H1N1) and SARS outbreaks, a problem in onepart of the world can be rapidly exported, leadingto global hardship.The World Health Organization (WHO) esti-mates that in the future, between 2 to 7.4 mil-lion people could be at risk worldwide from ahighly contageous avian flu virus that spreadsrapidly through the international air travel net-work (WHO, 2005).
Pandemics of novelpathogens have the capacity to overwhelm health-care systems, leading to widespread morbidity,mortality and socio-economic disruption (Coxet al, 2003).
Furthermore, outbreaks of live-stock diseases, such as foot-and-mouth disease orequine influenza can have a devastating impact onindustry, commerce and human health (Blake etal., 2003).
The challenge is to enhance vigilanceand control the emergence of outbreaks.
Whilsthuman analysis remains essential to spot complexrelationships, automated analysis has a key roleto play in filtering the vast volume of data in realtime and highlighting unusual trends using reli-able predictor indicators.BioCaster (http://born.nii.ac.jp) (Collier et al,2008) is a Web 2.0 monitoring station for the earlydetection of infectious disease events.
The sys-tem exploits a high-throughput semantic process-ing pipeline, converting unstructured news textsto structured records, alerting events based ontime-series analysis and then sharing this informa-tion with users via geolocating maps (Fig.
1(a)),graphs (Fig.
1(b)) and alerts.
Underlying the sys-tem is a publicly available multilingual applica-tion ontology.
Launched in 2006 (Collier et al,2006) the BioCaster Ontology (BCO) has beendownloaded by over 70 academic and industrialgroups worldwide.
This paper reports on a ma-jor upgrade to the system and the ontology - ex-panding the number of languages from 6 to 12,redefining key relations and extending coverage inthe number of diseases from 70 to 336, includingmany veterinary diseases.215(a) Bio-geographic map (b) Trend graph analyser(c) BioCaster processesFigure 1: (a)BioCaster?s bio-geographic map for a suspected foot-and-mouth outbreak on 22nd March,2010 with links to the multilingual ontology, NCBI, HighWire, GoPubMed and Google Scholar; (b)The trends analyser showing aggregated document counts for health events in China between 13ndMarch and 12th April, 2010; (c) The system?s pipeline of processes with example semantic markup.2162 BackgroundAs the world becomes more interconnected andurbanized and animal production becomes in-creasingly intensive, the speed with which epi-demics spread becomes faster, adding to pressureon biomedical experts and governments to makequick decisions.
Traditional validation methodssuch as field investigations or laboratory analysisare the mainstay of public health but can requiredays or weeks to issue reports.
The World WideWeb with its economical and real time delivery ofinformation represents a new modality in healthsurveillance (Wagner and Johnson, 2006) and hasbeen shown to be an effective source by the WorldHealth Organization (WHO) when Public HealthCanada?s GPHIN system detected the SARS out-break in southern China from news reports dur-ing November 2002.
The recent A(H1N1) ?swineflu?
pandemic highlighted the trend towards agen-cies using unvalidated sources.
The technologi-cal basis for such systems can be found in sta-tistical classification approaches and light weightontological reasoning.
For example, Google FluTrends (Ginsberg et al, 2009) is a system that de-pends almost entirely on automatic statistical clas-sification of user queries; MedISys-PULS (Yan-garber et al, 2008), HealthMap (Freifeld et al,2008) and BioCaster use a mixture of statisti-cal and ontological classification; and GPHIN(Mawudeku and Blench, 2006) and Argus (Wil-son, 2007) rely on a mixture of ontological classi-fication and manual analysis.Compared to other similar systems BioCasteris characterized by its richly featured and pub-licly downloadable ontology and emphasizes crit-ical evaluation of its text mining modules.
Em-pirical results have included: topic classification,named entity recognition, formal concept anal-ysis and event recognition.
In the absence ofa community gold standard, task performancewas assessed on the best available ?silver?
stan-dard - the ProMED-mail network (Madoff andWoodall, 2005), achieving F-score of 0.63 on 14disease-country pairs over a 365-day period (Col-lier, 2010).Despite initial skepticism within the publichealth community, health surveillance systemsbased on NLP-supported human analysis of me-dia reports are becoming firmly established inEurope, North America and Japan as sources ofhealth information available to governments andthe public (Hartley et al, 2010).
Whilst there is nosubstitute for trained human analysts, automatedfiltering has helped experts save time by allow-ing them to sift quickly through massive volumesof media data.
It has also enabled them to sup-plement traditional sources with a broader base ofinformation.In comparison with other areas of biomedicalNLP such as the clinical and genetics?
domains, arelative lack of building block resources may havehindered the wider participation of NLP groupsin public health applications.
It is hoped that theprovision of common resources like the BCO canhelp encourage further development and bench-marking.3 MethodBioCaster performs analysis of over 9000 news ar-ticles per day using the NPACI Rocks cluster mid-dleware (http://www.rockcsclusters.org) on a plat-form of 48 3.0GHz Xeon cores.
Data is ingested24/7 into a semantic processing pipeline in a short1 hour cycle from over 1700 public domain RSSfeeds such as Google news, the European MediaMonitor and ProMED-mail.
Since 2009, news hasalso being gathered under contract from a com-mercial news aggregation company, providing ac-cess to over 80,000 sources across the world?s lan-guages.The new 2010 version of BioCaster uses ma-chine translation into English (eleven languages)to source news stories related to currently oc-curring infectious and environmental disease out-breaks in humans, animals and plants.Access to the site is freely available but lo-gin registration applies to some functions such asemail alerts.
Processing is totally automatic, butwe have the potential within the login system toenable human moderated alerts which broadcastto Twitter and RSS.Below we describe in detail two key aspects ofthe system that have been significantly upgraded:the BCO and the event detection system.2173.1 Ontology3.1.1 AimThe BioCaster Ontology aims:?
To describe the terms and relations necessaryto detect and risk assess public health eventsin the grey literature;?
To bridge the gap between (multilingual)grey literature and existing standards inbiomedicine;?
To mediate integration of content across lan-guages;?
To be freely available.The central knowledge source for BioCasteris the multilingual ontology containing domainterms such as diseases, agents, symptoms, syn-dromes and species as well as domain sensitiverelations such as a disease causing symptoms oran agent affecting particular host species.
This al-lows the text mining system to have a basic un-derstanding of the key concepts and relationshipswithin the domain to fill in gaps not mentionedexplicitly in the news reports.
To the best of ourknowledge the BCO is unique as an applicationontology, providing freely available multilingualsupport to system developers interested in out-break surveillance in the language of the open me-dia.The BCO however has little to say outside ofits application domain, e.g.
in disease-gene in-teraction or for supporting automatic diagnosis.As discussed in Grey Cowell and Smith (2010),there are many other resources available that havethe potential to support applications for infec-tious disease analysis including controlled vocab-ularies and ontologies such as the the UnifiedMedical Language System (UMLS) (Lindberg etal., 1993), International Classification of Diseases(ICD-10) (WHO, 2004), SNOMED CT (Stearnset al, 2001), Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)(Lipscomb, 2000) and the Infectious Disease On-tology (IDO) (Grey Cowell and Smith, 2010).
In(Collier et al, 2006) we discussed how BCO com-pared to such ontologies so we will focus fromnow on the implication of the extensions.3.1.2 ScopeThe new version of the BCO now covers 12 lan-guages including all the United Nation?s officiallanguages: Arabic (968 terms), English (4113),French (1281), Indonesian (1081), Japanese(2077), Korean (1176), Malaysian (1001), Rus-sian (1187), Spanish (1171), Thai (1485), Viet-namese (1297) and Chinese (1142).
The multi-lingual ontology can be used as a direct knowl-edge source in language-specific text mining mod-ules, as an indexing resource for searching acrossconcepts in various languages and as a dictionaryfor future translation modules.
Currently news inall 12 languages is available via the Web portalbut news in additional languages such as German,Italian and Dutch are being added using machinetranslation.3.1.3 DesignLike EuroWordNet (Vossen, 1998), on whichit is loosely based, the BCO adopts a thesaurus-like structure with synonym sets linking to-gether terms across languages with similar mean-ing.
Synonym sets are referred to using rootterms.
Root terms themselves are fully defined in-stances that provide bridges to external classifica-tion schemes and nomenclatures such as ICD10,MeSH, SNOMED CT and Wikipedia.
The centralbackbone taxonomy is deliberately shallow andtaken from the ISO?s Suggested Upper MergedOntology (Niles and Pease, 2001).
To maintainconsistency and computability we kept a singleinheritance structure throughout.
18 core domainconcepts corresponding to named entities in thetext mining system such as DISEASE and SYMP-TOM were the results of analysis using a formaltheory (Guarino and Welty, 2000).We have endeavoured to construct definitionsfor root terms along Aristotelean principles byspecifying the difference to the parent.
For ex-ample in the case of Eastern encephalitis virus:Eastern equine encephalitis virus is aspecies of virus that belongs to thegenus Alphavirus of the family Togaviri-dae (order unassigned) of the groupIV ((+)ssRNA) that possesses a positivesingle stranded RNA genome.
It is the218etiological agent of the eastern equineencephalitis.We are conscious though that terms used inthe definitions still require more rigorous controlto be considered useful for machine reasoning.To aid both human and machine analysis rootterms are linked by a rich relational structurereflecting domain sensitive relations such ascauses(virus,disease), has symptom(disease,symptom), has associated syndrome(disease,syndrome), has reservoir(virus, organism).In such a large undertaking, the order of workwas critical.
We proceeded by collecting a list ofnotifiable diseases from national health agenciesand then grouped the diseases according to per-ceived relevance to the International Health Reg-ulations 2005 (Lawrence and Gostin, 2004).
Inthis way we covered approximately 200 diseases,and then explored freely available resources andthe biomedical literature to find academic and lay-man?s terminology to describe their agents, af-fected hosts, vector species, symptoms, etc.
Wethen expanded the coverage to less well knownhuman diseases, zoonotic diseases, animal dis-eases and diseases caused by toxic substancessuch as sarin, hydrogen sulfide, sulfur dioxide andethylene.
At regular stages we checked and val-idated terms against those appearing in the newsmedia.As we expanded the number of conditions to in-clude veterinary diseases we found a major struc-tural reorganization was needed to support animalsymptoms.
For example, a high temperature inhumans would not be the same as one in bovids.This prompted us in the new version to group dis-eases and symptoms around major animal familesand related groups, e.g.
high temperature (human)and high temperature (bovine).A second issue that we encountered was theneed to restructure the hierarchy under Organi-cObject which was divided between MicroOrgan-ism and Animal.
The structure of the previousversion meant that the former were doing dou-ble duty as infecting agents and the later were af-fected hosts.
The MicroOrganism class containedbacterium, helminth, protozoan, fungus and virus,which then became the domain in a relation ?xcauses y?.
Expansion forced us to accomodate thefact that some animals such as worms and mites(e.g.
scabies) also infect humans as well as ani-mals.
The result was a restructuring of the organicclasses using the Linnean taxonomy as a guide-line, although this is probably not free from errors(e.g.
virus is typically not considered to be an or-ganism).3.2 Event alerting systemFigure 1(c) shows a schematic of the modular de-sign used by the BioCaster text mining system.Following on from machine translation and topicclassification is named entity recognition and tem-plate recognition which we describe in more detailbelow.
The final structured event frames includeslot values normalized to ontology root terms fordisease, pathogen (virus or bacterium), countryand province.
Additionally we also identify 15 as-pects of public health events critical to risk assess-ment such as: spread across international borders,hospital worker infection, accidental or deliberaterelease, food contamination and vaccine contami-nation.Latitude and longitude of events down to theprovince level are found in two ways: using theGoogle API up to a limit of 15000 lookups perday, and then using lookup on the BCO taxonomyof 5000 country and province names derived fromopen sources such as Wikipedia.Each hour events are automatically alerted toa Web portal page by comparing daily aggre-gated event counts against historical norms (Col-lier, 2010).
Login users can also sign up to receiveemails on specific topics.
A topic would normallyspecify a disease or syndrome, a country or regionand a specific risk condition.In order to extract knowledge from docu-ments, BioCaster maintains a collection of rulepatterns in a regular expression language thatconverts surface expressions into structured in-formation.
For example the surface phrase?man exposes airline passengers to measles?would be converted into the three templates?species(human); disease(measles); interna-tional travel(true)?.
Writing patterns to producesuch templates can be very time consuming andso the BioCaster project has developed its own219D3: :- name(disease){ list(@undiagnosed) words(,1) list(@disease) }S2: :- name(symptom) { list(@severity) list(@symptom)}CF1: contaminated food(?true?)
:- ?caused?
?by?
list(@contaminate verbs past)list(@injested material)SP4: species(?animal?)
:- name(animal,A) words(,3) list(@cull verbs past)Table 1: Examples of SRL rules for named entity and template recognition.
Template rules containa label, a head and a body, where the head specifies the template pattern to be output if the bodyexpression matches.
The body can contain word lists, literals, and wild cards.
Various conditions canbe placed on each of these such as orthographic matching.light weight rule language - called the SimpleRule Language (SRL) and a pattern building inter-face for maintaining the rule base (McCrae et al,2009).
Both are freely available to the researchcommunity under an open source license.
Cur-rently BioCaster uses approximately 130 rules forentity recognition, 1000 word lists and 3200 tem-plate rules (of which half are for location recogni-tion) to identify events of interest in English.
Us-ing SRL allows us to quickly adapt the system tonewly emerging terminology such as the 11+ des-ignations given to A(H1N1) during the first stagesof the 2009 pandemic.The SRL rulebook for BioCaster can recognizea range of entities related to the task of diseasesurveillance such as bacteria, chemicals, diseases,countries, provinces, cities and major airports.Many of these classes are recognized using termsimported from the BCO.
The rule book also con-tains specialised thesauri to recognize subclassesof entities such as locations of habitation, eater-ies and medical service centres.
Verb lists aremaintained for lexical classes such as detection,mutation, investigation, causation, contamination,culling, blaming, and spreading.Some examples of SRL rules for named entityrecognition are shown in Table 1 and describedbelow:Rule D3 in the rulebook tags phrases like ?mys-tery illness?
or ?unknown killer bug?
by matchingon strings contained within two wordlists, @un-diagnosed and @disease, separated by up to oneword.Rule S2 allows severity indicators such as ?se-vere?
or ?acute?
to modify a list of known symp-toms in order to identify symptom entities.Rule CF1 is an example of a template rule.
Ifthe body of the rule matches by picking out ex-pressions such as ?was caused by tainted juice?,this triggers the head to output an alert for con-taminated food.Rule SP4 identifies the victim species as ?ani-mal?
in contexts like ?250 geese were destroyed?.The rulebook also supports more complex in-ferences such as the home country of nationalpublic health organizations.Since BioCaster does not employ systematicmanual checking of its reports, it uses a number ofheuristic filters to increase specificity (the propor-tion of correctly identified negatives) for reportsthat appear on the public Web portal pages.
Forexample, reports with no identified disease andcountry are rejected.
Since these heuristics mayreduce sensitivity they are not applied to news thatappears on the user login portal pages.4 Results and DiscussionVersion 3 of the ontology represents a significantexpansion in the coverage of diseases, symptomsand pathogens on version 2.
Table 2 summarizesthe number of root terms for diseases classified byanimal familes.The thesaurus like structure of the BCO is com-patible in many respects to the Simple KnowledgeOrganization System (SKOS) (Miles et al, 2005).In order to extend exchange and re-use we haveproduced a SKOS version of the BCO which isavailable from the BCO site.
We have also con-verted the BCO terms into 12 SRL rule books (1for each language) for entity tagging.
These tooare freely available from the BCO site.As the ontology expands we will consideradopting a more detailed typing of diseases suchas hasInfectingPart to indicate the organ affected220Species N ExampleAvian 22 Fowl poxBee 6 Chalk brooddiseaseBovine 24 BluetongueCanine 4 Blastomycosis(Canine)Caprine 14 ContagiousagalactiaCervine 2 Chronic wastingdiseaseEquine 17 StranglesFeline 4 Feline AIDSFish 2 Viral hemorrhagic septicemiaHuman 216 Scarlet feverLagomorph 2 MyxomatosisNon-human 16 Sylvanprimate yellow feverOther 2 Crayfish plagueRodent 8 Colorado tickfever (Rodent)Swine 12 Swine erysipelasTable 2: Major disease groups organized by af-fected animal family.
N represents the number ofroot terms.or hasProtectionMethod to indicate broad classesof methods used to prevent or treat a condition.The typology of diseases could also be extendedin a more fine grained manner to logically groupconditions, e.g.
West Nile virus encephalitis,Powassan encephalitis and the Japanese B en-cephalitis could be connected through a hasTyperelation on encephalitis.5 ConclusionMultilingual resources specifically targeted at thetask of global health surveillance have so far beenvery rare.
We hope that the release of version 3can be used to support a range of applications suchas text classification, cross language search, ma-chine translation, query expansion and so on.The BCO has been constructed to provide corevocabulary and knowledge support to the Bio-Caster project but it has also been influentialin the construction of other public health ori-ented application ontologies such as the Syn-dromic Surveillance Ontology (Okhamatovskaiaet al, 2009).
The BCO is freely available fromhttp://code.google.com/p/biocaster-ontology/ un-der a Creative Commons license.AcknowledgementsThe authors greatly acknowledge the many co-workers who have provided comments and feed-back on BioCaster.
Funding support was pro-vided in part by the Japan Science and TechnologyAgency under the PRESTO programme.ReferencesBlake, A., M. T. Sinclair, and G. Sugiyarto.
2003.Quantifying the impact of foot and mouth disease ontourism and the UK economy.
Tourism Economics,9(4):449?465.Collier, N., A. Kawazoe, L. Jin, M. Shigematsu,D.
Dien, R. Barrero, K. Takeuchi, and A. Kaw-trakul.
2006.
A multilingual ontology for infectiousdisease surveillance: rationale, design and chal-lenges.
Language Resources and Evaluation, 40(3?4).
DOI: 10.1007/s10579-007-9019-7.Collier, N., S. Doan, A. Kawazoe, R. Matsuda Good-win, M. Conway, Y. Tateno, Q. Ngo, D. Dien,A.
Kawtrakul, K. Takeuchi, M. Shigematsu, andK.
Taniguchi.
2008.
BioCaster:detecting publichealth rumors with a web-based text mining sys-tem.
Bioinformatics, 24(24):2940?1, December.doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btn534.Collier, N. 2010.
What?s unusual in online dis-ease outbreak news?
Biomedical Semantics, 1(1),March.
doi:10.1186/2041-1480-1-2.Cox, N., S. Temblyn, and T. Tam.
2003.
Influenzapandemic planning.
Vaccine, 21(16):1801?1803.Freifeld, C., K. Mandl, B. Reis, and J. Brownstein.2008.
Healthmap: global infectious disease mon-itoring through automated classification and visual-ization of internet media reports.
J. American Med-ical Informatics Association, 15:150?157.Ginsberg, J., M. Mohebbi, R. Patel, L. Brammer,M.
Smolinski, and L. Brilliant.
2009.
Detectinginfluenza epidemics using search engine query data.Nature, 457:1012?1014.Grey Cowell, L. and B. Smith.
2010.
Infectious dis-ease informatics.
In Sintchenko, V., editor, Infec-tious Disease Informatics, pages 373?395.
SpringerNew York.221Guarino, N. and C. Welty.
2000.
A formal ontologyof properties.
In Dieng, R. and O. Corby, editors,EKAW-2000: Proc.
12th Int.
Conf.
on KnowledgeEngineering and Knowledge Management, pages97?112.Hartley, D., N. Nelson, R. Walters, R. Arthur, R. Yan-garber, L. Madoff, J. Linge, A. Mawudeku, N. Col-lier, J. Brownstein, G. Thinus, and N. Lightfoot.2010.
The landscape of international biosurveil-lance.
Emerging Health Threats J., 3(e3), January.doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btn534.Lawrence, O. and J. Gostin.
2004.
Internationalinfectious disease law - revision of the WorldHealth Organization?s international health regula-tions.
J. American Medical Informatics Associa-tion, 291(21):2623?2627.Lindberg, Donald A.B., L. Humphreys, Betsy, andT.
McCray, Alexa.
1993.
The unified medical lan-guage system.
Methods of Information in Medicine,32:281?291.Lipscomb, C. 2000.
Medical subject headings(MeSH).
Bulletin of the Medical Library Assoca-tion, 88:256?266.Madoff, Lawrence C. and John P. Woodall.
2005.
Theinternet and the global monitoring of emerging dis-eases: Lessons from the first 10 years of promed-mail.
Archives of Medical Research, 36(6):724 ?730.
Infectious Diseases: Revisiting Past Problemsand Addressing Future Challenges.Mawudeku, A. and M. Blench.
2006.
Global pub-lic health intelligence network (gphin).
In Proc.
7thInt.
Conf.
of the Association for Machine Transla-tion in the Americas, Cambridge, MA, USA, August8?12.McCrae, J., M. Conway, and N. Collier.
2009.
Simplerule language editor.
Google code project, Septem-ber.
Available from: http://code.google.com/p/srl-editor/.Miles, A., B. Matthews, and M. Wilson.
2005.
SKOSCore: Simple knowledge organization for the web.In Proc.
Int.
Conf.
on Dublin Core and MetadataApplications, Madrid, Spain, 12?15 September.Niles, I. and A. Pease.
2001.
Towards a standard up-per ontology.
In Welty, C. and B. Smith, editors,2nd Int.
Conf.
on Formal Ontology in InformationSystems FOIS-2001, Maine, USA, October 17?19.Okhamatovskaia, A., W. Chapman, N. Collier, J. Es-pino, and D. Buckeridge.
2009.
SSO: The syn-dromic surveillance ontology.
In Proc.
Int.
Soc.
forDisease Surveillance, Miami, USA, December 3?4.Stearns, M. Q., C. Price, K. A. Spackman, and A. Y.Wang.
2001.
SNOMED clinical terms: overview ofthe development process and project status.
In Proc.American Medical Informatics Association (AMIA)Symposium, pages 662?666.Vossen, P. 1998.
Introduction to EuroWordNet.
Com-puters and the Humanities, 32:73?89.Wagner, M. and H. Johnson.
2006.
The internet assentinel.
In Wagner, M. et al, editor, The Hand-book of Biosurveillance, pages 375?385.
AcademicPress.WHO.
2004.
ICD-10, International Statistical Classi-fication of Diseases and Related Health Problems,Tenth Revision.
World Health Organization, De-cember.WHO.
2005.
Avian influenza: assessing the pandemicthreat.
Technical Report WHO/CDS/2005.29,World Health Organization, Geneva, January.Wilson, J.
2007.
Argus: a global detection and track-ing system for biological events.
Advances in Dis-ease Surveillance, 4.Yangarber, R., P. von Etter, and R. Steinberger.
2008.Content collection and analysis in the domain ofepidemiology.
In Proc.
Int.
Workshop on Describ-ingMedical Web Resources (DRMED 2008), Goten-burg, Sweden, May 27th.222
