Coling 2010: Poster Volume, pages 1363?1372,Beijing, August 2010Applying Syntactic, Semantic and Discourse Constraints in ChineseTemporal AnnotationNianwen XueBrandeis Universityxuen@brandeis.eduYuping ZhouBrandeis Universityyzhou@brandeis.eduAbstractWe describe a Chinese temporal annota-tion experiment that produced a sizabledata set for the TempEval-2 evaluationcampaign.
We show that while we haveachieved high inter-annotator agreementfor simpler tasks such as identification ofevents and time expressions, temporal re-lation annotation proves to be much morechallenging.
We show that in order to im-prove the inter-annotator agreement it isimportant to strategically select the anno-tation targets, and the selection of annota-tion targets should be subject to syntactic,semantic and discourse constraints.1 IntroductionEvent-based temporal inference is a fundamen-tal natural language technology that attempts todetermine the temporal location of an event aswell as the temporal ordering between events.
Itsupports a wide range of natural language appli-cations such as Information Extraction, QuestionAnswering and Text Summarization.
For somegenres of text (such as news), a temporal order-ing of events can be the most informative summa-rization of a document (Mani and Wilson, 2000;Filatova and Hovy, 2001).
Temporal inferenceis especially important for multi-document sum-marization where events extracted from multipledocuments need to be put in a chronological or-der (Lin and Hovy, 2001; Barzilay et al, 2002)to make logical sense.
Event-based temporal in-ference is also necessary for Question Answer-ing (Harabagiu and Bejan, 2005; Harabagiu andBejan, 2006).
For example, to answer ?Whenwas Beijing Olympics held?
?, events extractedfrom natural language text have to be associatedwith a temporal location, whereas to answer ?howmany terrorists have been caught since 9/11?
?,temporal ordering of multiple events is the pre-requisite.
Event-based temporal inference hasalso been studied extensively in the context ofInformation Extraction, which typically involvesextracting unstructured information from naturallanguage sources and putting them into a struc-tured database for querying or other forms of in-formation access.
For event extraction, this meansextracting the event participants as well as its tem-poral location.
Generally, an event has to occur ina specific time and space, and the temporal loca-tion of an event provides the necessary context foraccurately understanding that event.Being able to infer the temporal location of anevent in Chinese text has many additional applica-tions.
Besides Information Extraction, QuestionAnswering and Text Summarization, knowing thetemporal location of an event is also highly valu-able to Machine Translation.
To translate a lan-guage like Chinese into a language like Englishin which tense is grammatically marked with in-flectional morphemes, an MT system will haveto infer the necessary temporal information todetermine the correct tense for verbs.
Statisti-cal MT systems, the currently dominant researchparadigm, typically do not address this issue di-rectly or even indirectly.As machine learning approaches are gainingdominance in computational linguistics and pro-ducing state-of-the-art results in many areas, theyhave in turn fueled the demand for large quan-tities of human-annotated data of various types1363that machine learning algorithms can be trainedon and evaluated against.
In the temporal in-ference domain, this has led to the creation ofTimeBank (Pustejovsky et al, 2003), which is an-notated based on the TimeML language (Puste-jovsky et al, 2005).
TimeML is becoming an ISOstandard for annotating events and time expres-sions (ISO/TC 37/SC 4/WG 2, 2007).
A versionof the TimeBank has been provided as a sharedpublic resource for TempEval-2007, the first tem-poral evaluation campaign aimed at automaticallyidentifying temporal relations between events andtime expressions as well the temporal ordering be-tween events.In this paper, we report work for a Chinese tem-poral annotation project as part of the 2010 multi-lingual temporal evaluation campaign (TempEval-2)1.
Besides Chinese, TempEval-2 also includesEnglish, French, Italian, Korean and Spanish.Our temporal annotation project is set up withinthe confines of BAT2, a database-driven multilin-gual temporal annotation tool that is also usedto support other TempEval-2 languages.
TheTempEval-2 evaluation framework takes a divide-and-conquer approach to temporal annotation.With the eventual goal being the annotation oftemporal relations between events and betweenevents and time expressions, the TempEval-2 an-notation consists of a series of event and temporalannotation subtasks.
The idea is that each of thesesubtasks will be easier to annotate than the largertask as a whole and is less demanding on the an-notators.
The hope is that this will lead to moreconsistent annotation that will be easier to learnfor automatic systems as well.The rest of the paper will be organized as fol-lows.
In Section 2, we briefly describe the sevenlayers of annotation.
In Section 3, we describe ourannotation procedure.
In Section 4, we address amajor issue that arises from our annotation effort,which is the question of how to select annotationtargets.
Our experience, some positive and somenegative, shows that temporal annotation can becarried out much more smoothly and with higherquality when the right annotation targets are pre-sented to the annotators.
This is especially true1http://www.timeml.org/tempeval2/2http://www.timeml.org/site/batduring the annotation of temporal relations be-tween events and between events and time expres-sions, which are more complex than simpler anno-tation tasks such as identifying the events and timeexpressions.
Section 5 concludes our paper.2 Layers of annotation2.1 Events and time expressionsThe ultimate goal for a temporal annotationproject is to determine the temporal relationshipbetween events, and between events and time ex-pressions.
In order to achieve that objective,events and time expressions must be first iden-tified.
Specifically, this means marking up textspans in a document that can be used to representthe events and time expressions.
Events in partic-ular are abstract objects and a full description ofan event would include its participants and tempo-ral and spatial location.
The TempEval annotationframework simplifies this by just marking a verbor a noun that best represents an event.
The verbor noun can be considered as an ?event anchor?that represents the most important aspect of theevent.
This is illustrated in (1), where the verbs??
(?attend?
), ??
(?hold?)
and the noun ??
(?ceremony?)
are marked as event anchors.
(1) ??
?State Council??
?Vice Premier??
?Zou Jiahua??attend?ASP??today??hold?DE??commissioning??ribbon-cutting??ceremony?.
?Vice Premier Zou Jiahua of the State Coun-cil attended today?s commissioning ribbon-cutting ceremony?.Once the text spans of event anchors are anno-tated, these events are then annotated with a set ofattributes.
The TempEval annotation frameworkallows variations across languages in the numberof attributes one can define as well as the valuesfor these attributes.
For example, in the Englishannotation, one of the event attributes is grammat-ical tense which can be read off the morphologicalinflections of a verb.
Chinese verbs, on the otherhand, are not inflected for tense.
Instead, in the1364Chinese annotation, we have a more fully devel-oped aspect attribute that has eight possible val-ues: Actual, Experiential, Complementive, Delim-itative, Progressive, Durative, Inceptive, and Con-tinuative, largely based on the theoretical work ofXiao and McEnery (2004).The most important attribute for both Englishand Chinese, however, is the Class attribute.
Thevalues for this attribute include Reporting, As-pectual, Perception, I-Action, I-State, State, andOccurrence.
The different values of the Classattribute effectively constitute a classification ofevents, and they are defined in the TimeML spec-ification language (Pustejovsky et al, 2005).The other building block in the TempEval anno-tation framework is time expressions.
Like events,time expressions are marked with both text spansand a set of attributes.
The annotation of timeexpressions is relatively straightforward, and wefollow the TimeML standards in our annotationstudy.
In TimeML, time expressions are formallycalled TIMEX3s, and they have two obligatory at-tributes: Type and Value.
The value of Type is oneof time, date, duration or set.
The Value attributeis essentially a normalized time value based onthe TIDES standard for annotating time expres-sions (Ferro et al, 2004).
The normalization al-lows easy comparison of time expression.
For ex-ample, there are three time expressions in (2), ?????(?1992?),?????
(?1996?)
and??
(?this year?).
Note that even though ?????
?
?????
(?
1992 to 1996?)
formsone duration, it is annotated as two time expres-sions.
All three time expressions in the sentenceare dates, and their normalized values are 1992,1996, and 1997 respectively.
To determine thenormalized value for ??
(?this year?
), we needto know the document creation time, and fortu-nately this information is available in the meta-data for the Chinese Treebank documents.
(2) ?????1992?to?????1996??Shanghai??
??
??GDP?
?per year on average??grow???????14.2%?,?
?this year?DE??growth??speed?also?will??reach?????13%??above?
?From 1992 to 1996, Shanghai?s GDP on av-erage grows at14.2% per year.
This year the(GDP) growth will also reach above 13%.
?2.2 Temporal relationsOnce the events and time expressions are in place,we are in a position to annotate various temporalrelations that are defined over them.
(Since eventsand time expressions are entities that temporal re-lation is defined upon, we will subsume them un-der the cover term ?temporal entity?
when conve-nient.)
The ultimate goal of temporal annotationis to identify all temporal relations in text.
Thisgoal cannot be achieved by manually annotatingtemporal relation of all temporal entities for threereasons.
First, it is infeasible, given the number oftemporal entities in a typical document.
Second,it is unnecessary due to the transitive property ofcertain types of temporal relation.
For example, ife1, e2 and e3 are all events, and if e1 is before e2,and e2 is before e3, there is no need to also an-notate the relation between e1 and e3.
Third, theresult of annotating all temporal entity pairs doesnot reflect the natural temporal relations that existin text.
Verhagen et al (2009) found that a majorcontributor to high inter-annotator disagreementwas hard-to-classify cases that annotators were in-structed not to avoid.
If a temporal relation is notmade clear in text, then it should not be present inannotation.Since it is infeasible, unnecessary and evendetrimental to manually annotate all possible rela-tions between temporal entities, the question thenbecomes one of selecting which temporal rela-tions to annotate.
The TempEval-2 evaluationstarts by annotating the following temporal rela-tions, which it considers to be a priority:1. between an event and a time expression2.
between an event and the document creationtime3.
between a subordinating event and its corre-sponding subordinated event13654.
between a main event and its immediatelypreceding main eventThe TempEval-2 annotation uses six values forall temporal relations, and they are Before, Before-or-Overlap, Overlap, Overlap-or-After, After andVague.
The Vague value is only used as the lastresort when the annotator really cannot determinethe temporal relationship between a pair of tem-poral entities.
In the meantime, the TempEval-2also allows variations from language to languageregarding specific annotation strategies for eachsubtask.
For Chinese temporal annotation, mostof the decisions we have to make revolve aroundone central question, and that is which temporalentity pair to annotate.2.2.1 Relation between events and timeexpressionsThe annotation of the relationship betweenevents and time expressions involves i) determin-ing which event is related to which time expres-sion, and ii) what is the nature of this relation-ship.
In (3), for example, there are three eventsand three time expressions that enter into the tem-poral relation annotation.
If the annotator is re-quired to annotate all possible event/time combi-nations, there will be nine possible pairs.
Thereare at least three possible strategies to go aboutselecting event/time pairs to annotate.
The firststrategy is to annotate all possible pairs.
Thisseems to add unnecessary burden to the annota-tor because if we know that e1 overlaps t1, wecan infer the temporal relationship between e1 andt3 by virtue of the fact that t1 occurs before t3.The second strategy is to allow the annotator tofreely choose which event/time pair to annotatebased on whether there is a clear temporal rela-tion between them.
This eliminates the possibilitythat the annotator is forced to annotate hard-to-classify and inconsequential relations, but leavingthis decision to the annotator entirely might leadto low inter-annotator agreement where annota-tors choose to annotate different event/time pairs.
(3) ??
??
??
?
?International Monetary Fund[t1???21st]?at??here[e1??publish]?one?CL??preliminary??assessment??report?,??again[e2?
?lower]?AS?its?regarding[t2?this] [t3?next]?two?year??global??economic??growth??speed?DE[e3??forecast]?.
?The International Monetary Fund on 21published a preliminary assessment report,again lowering its forecast of the global eco-nomic growth for this year and next year.
?In our annotation, we adopt a third strategy.
In-stead of simply asking which event bears a tem-poral relation to which temporal expression in thesame sentence, we ask annotators to judge whichevent(s) a given temporal expression is intendedto modify.
In essence, this amounts to asking theannotator to first make a syntactic decision aboutwhich events fall within the scope of a time ex-pression.
In (3), all three events e1, e2 and e3fall within the scope of t1, and none of them arein the scope of t2 and t3.
This approach reducesthe number of fuzzy temporal relations that an-notators might disagree on due to preference forthoroughness vs. accuracy.2.2.2 Temporal relation betweensubordinating event and subordinatedeventThe two tasks in the TempEval framework thatdeal with event pairs are to annotate temporal re-lation between the subordinating event and thesubordinated event, as well as the relation inmain event pairs.
The division of labor betweenthem is quite clear: the former deals with intra-sentential temporal relations whereas the latterhandles inter-sentential relations.
It is not imme-diately clear, however, how each of the two typesof relations should be defined.Unlike in the event/time annotation where syn-tactic notions are invoked in selecting event/timepairs to annotate, our definitions of subordinat-ing and subordinated events are primarily basedon semantic criteria.
The subordinating event isroughly the predicate while the subordinated eventis one of its arguments, provided that both the1366predicate and the argument are anchors of events.For example, in (4), there are two subordinatingand subordinated event pairs.
e2 is a subordinatedevent of e1, and e4 is a subordinated event of e3.
(4) ??Guangdong[e1??]hold[e2???]symposium[e3??]introduce[e4??
]tax reform?and??processing??trade??accounting?
?regulation?Guangdong held a symposium introducingthe tax reform and the accounting regulationson processing trade.
?An alternative to using the notion of predicate-argument structure in determining the subordinat-ing/subordinated events is to resort to syntactic re-lations such as the verb and its object.
The net re-sult would be the same for Example (4).
However,the same argument that motivates the annotationof the predicate-argument structures in the Prop-bank (Palmer et al, 2005) and the Chinese Prop-bank (Xue and Palmer, 2009) also applies to tem-poral annotation.
That is, the predicate-argumentstructure and temporal relations tend to hold con-stant in spite of the syntactic alternations and vari-ations.
For example, the temporal relation be-tween the noun???
(?symposium?)
event andthe verb??
(?hold?)
event remains the same in(5) in spite of the change in the syntactic relationbetween them.
If only event pairs in a verb-objectrelation are annotated, the temporal relation be-tween e2 and e1 in (5) would be lost.
(5) [e2???]symposium?PREP??Guangdong[e1??
]hold?The symposium was held in Guangdong.
?2.2.3 Temporal relations between maineventsThe purpose of annotating the temporal relationbetween main events is to capture the temporal or-dering of events scattered in different sentencesthat constitute the main chain of events coveredin the article.
Annotation of the temporal relationbetween main events is further divided into twosteps.
In the first step, main events are first iden-tified among all events in a sentence, and then thetemporal relation between the main events in adja-cent pairs of sentences is annotated.
As a first ap-proximation, we define ?main event?
as follows:a main event is the event expressed by the mainverb of the top-most level clause of a sentence.The underlying assumption is that good writingwould place words representing important eventsin prominent positions of a sentence and the firstchoice of a prominent position in a sentence isprobably the main verb.
An additional stipulationis that in case of a co-ordinated construction in-volving two or more main verbs at the top-mostlevel, the event represented by the first is the mainevent of the sentence.
This is to ensure that eachsentence has only one main event.
As we shallsee in Section 3, this seemingly simple turns outto be surprisingly difficult, as reflected in the lowinter-annotator agreement.2.2.4 Temporal relation between events andthe document creation timeIn this layer, all the events identified in a doc-ument are annotated according to their temporalrelation to the document creation time.
This taskis particularly challenging and intellectually inter-esting for Chinese.
As an isolating language (Liand Thompson, 1981), Chinese has a small wordto morpheme ratio.
That is, the majority of itswords consist of single morphemes.
As a result, itlacks the inflectional morphology that grammat-ically marks tense.
Tense directly encodes thetemporal location of an event in natural languagetext and the lack of observable grammatical tensemakes it that much harder to determine the tem-poral location of an event in Chinese text.
This isnot to say, however, that Chinese speakers do notattempt to convey the temporal location of eventswhen they speak or write, or that they cannot inter-pret the temporal location when they read Chinesetext, or even that they have a different way of rep-resenting the temporal location of events.
In fact,there is evidence that the temporal location is rep-resented in Chinese in exactly the same way as it isrepresented in English and most world languages:in relation to the moment of speech.
One piece ofevidence to support this claim is that Chinese tem-poral expressions like ??
(?today?),??
(?to-morrow?)
and ??
(?yesterday?)
all assume a1367temporal deixis that is the moment of speech in re-lation to which all temporal locations are defined.Annotating the temporal relation between eventsand document creation time would then directlycapture the temporal location of events.3 Annotation procedure and annotationconsistencyThe data set consists of 60 files taken from theChinese Treebank (Xue et al, 2005).
The sourceof these files is Xinhua newswire.
It goes througha two-phase double blind and adjudication pro-cess.
The first phase involves three annotators,with each file annotated by two annotators; thesecond phase involves two judges, with each dou-ble annotated document assigned to a single judgefor disagreement resolution.
The inter-annotatoragreement between the two annotators (A and B)as the agreement between each annotator and thejudge (J) are presented in Table 1.
The agree-ment is measured in terms of F1-score3, which isa weighted average between precision and recall.The F1-score is calculated as follows:F = 2 ?
precision ?
recallprecision + recall (1)The agreement statistics in Table 1 clearly showthat event and time expression annotations areeasier but temporal relations are harder as re-flected in the lower inter-annotator agreementscores.
This is somewhat expected because rela-tions involve two temporal entities while we areonly dealing with one temporal entity with eventand time expression annotations.
The figures alsoshow the seemingly simple task of main event an-notation (which only involves picking one eventper sentence as the main event) has a surprisinglylow inter-annotator agreement score.
One reasonmight be that in a less grammaticalized languagelike Chinese, it is not always clear which verb isthe main verb when the syntactic tree informationis not displayed in the annotation interface.
An-other reason is that annotators sometimes disre-3For a subset of the tasks, the total number of annotatedinstances for the two annotators is the same.
This subsetincludes identification of main events, the temporal relationbetween the main events in two adjacent sentences, and thetemporal relation between an event and the document cre-ation time.Layer f(A, B) f(A, J) f(B, J)event-extent 0.90 0.93 0.94timex-extent 0.86 0.88 0.93main-events 0.74 0.90 0.82tlinks-main-events 0.65 0.70 0.75tlinks-dct-events 0.77 0.86 0.90tlinks-e-t 0.75 0.88 0.83tlinks-sub-e 0.53 0.74 0.70Table 1: Inter-annotator agreement for the sub-tasks: event-extent, the textual extent of an eventanchor; timex-extent, the textual span of a timeexpression; tlinks-main-event, the temporal rela-tion between the main events; tlinks-dct-events,the temporal link between an event and the doc-ument creation time; tlinks-e-t, the temporal re-lation between an event and a time expression;tlinks-sub-e, the temporal relation between a sub-ordinating event and a subordinated event.gard the syntax-based rule when it runs too muchafoul to their intuition, a point that we will comeback to and discuss in greater detail in Section 4.It is worth noting that the annotation of the tem-poral relation between an event and a time ex-pression, and between a subordinating event anda subordinated event involves two decisions.
Theannotator needs to first decide which pairs of tem-poral entities to annotate, and then decide whattemporal relation should be assigned to each tem-poral entity pair.
To take a closer look at whichof these two decisions creates more of a prob-lem for the annotator, we computed the agreementfigures for these two steps respectively.
In Table2, Column 3 presents the figure for just identify-ing which pair to annotate, and Column 4 is theagreement for just assigning the temporal relation,assuming the same pair of temporal entities arefound by both annotators.Layer all identification f relationtlinks-e-t 0.75 0.86 0.89tlinks-sub-e 0.53 0.60 0.87Table 2: Detailed agreement for event-time andsubordinating-subordinated eventsFrom Table 2, it is clear that for both tasks,1368there is lower agreement between the annotatorsin deciding which pair to annotate.
Once the twoannotators agree on which pair to annotate, deter-mining the temporal relation is relatively easier, asreflected in higher agreement.4 Detailed discussionAs described in Section 2, when annotating thetemporal relation between an event and a time ex-pression, the annotators are instructed to annotatean event-time pair if the event is falling within thesyntactic scope of the time expression.
When an-notating the relation between subordinating andsubordinated events, the annotators are instructedto select event pairs based on the semantic notionof predicate-argument structure.
This assumesa certain level of linguistic sophistication on thepart of the annotators.
From the lower agreementscore in identifying event-time pairs (Table 2), itis clear that our annotators, who are not trainedlinguists, lack in this type of specialized knowl-edge.
They are better at making the more in-tuitive judgment regarding the temporal relationbetween two temporal entities.
One solution isobviously to find better trained linguists to per-form these tasks, but it may not always be fea-sible.
Since our data is taking from the ChineseTreebank and has already been annotated withsyntactic structures and predicate-argument struc-tures (from the Chinese Propbank annotation (Xueand Palmer, 2009)), an alternative is to extract theevent-time or event-event pairs using the syntacticand predicate-argument structures as constraints.4The annotation of main events and their rela-tions presents a different challenge.
Our first ap-proximation is to select main events based on syn-tactic considerations.
A main event is equatedwith the matrix verb in a sentence.
In manycases this turns out to be unintuitive.
Two of therecurring counter-intuitive cases involve directlyquoted speech and coordination structures.Directly quoted speech In Chinese newswiretext, it is often the case that the source of informa-tion is explicitly cited in the form of direct quota-tions.
(6) is such an example:4See a similar approach in Bethard et al (2007).
(6) ??Song-Jian?say?,????nowadays?,??China?already?can??produce??tens-of-thousands?CL??digital??telephone?????PBX??
?Song Jian said, ?nowadays, China is capa-ble of producing tens of thousands of digitaltelephone PBX.?
?While the event represented by the underlinedverb ?
(?say?)
may very well be important insome natural language processing applications(for example, sometimes the source of the targetinformation is crucial), it is not normally part ofthe intended information being covered by a newsarticle.
And it does not make much sense to anno-tate its temporal relation to adjacent main eventsthat are on a par with what was said, not the sayingevent itself.
The point would be even clearer whensuch a case is contrasted with a case in which asimilar semantic relation is formulated in a differ-ent syntactic structure, as shown in (7):(7) ?according to??official??authority??source??divulge?,??this-year??China??government??determine?DE??economic??
?growth rate?be????8%?
?According to some official sources in posi-tion of authority, the economic growth ratedetermined by the Chinese government is8%.
?Because of the presence of the preposition?
(?according to?
), the underlined reporting verb??
(?divulge?
), similar to?
(?say?)
in (6) withrespect to its semantic relation to the followingmaterial, would not be annotated as representingthe main event of the sentence.
The differencein the annotation of the main event between (7)and (6) seems to be an undesirable artifact of thepurely syntax-based annotation rule for identify-ing main events.1369Co-ordination structure Co-ordination by nomeans is a rare occurrence in the data, and of-ten times, all events within a co-ordination struc-ture, taken together, represent the main event ofthe sentence.
For example, in (8), both eventsrepresented by the underlined verbs seem to beequally significant and should be included in thesame chain of events.
Given the prevalence of co-ordination between verbs, the stipulation that onlythe first one counts significantly undermines thecoverage of the task and goes against the annota-tor?s intuitions.
(8) ?
?This year??September?,?many?CL??foreign??oil??company?with?Kazakstan??national??oil??company??sign?LE??
?a series of????century???contract??,??these??contract?will?in??future??40?years?within??generate?????700-billion??dollar?DE??enormous??profit?
?In September of this year, many foreign oilcompanies signed a series of ?century con-tract?
with Kazakstan National Oil Company.These contracts will generate an enormousprofit of 700-billion dollars.
?The issue in the annotation of the temporal re-lation between main events seem to be more in theselection of main event pairs than in the determi-nation of the nature of their relationship.
Our cur-rent rule states that any two main events in consec-utive sentences form a pair for annotation.
Thistask suffers a low level of inter-annotator agree-ment partly because many main events identifiedby syntactic criteria are not actually main eventsin our intended sense.
Often times, two consecu-tive main events come from different levels of thediscourse structure or different chains of events,which puts annotators in a hard-to-classify situa-tion.To achieve high inter-annotator consistencywhen annotating the temporal relation betweenevents from different sentences, we believe the se-lection of event pairs has to be informed by thediscourse structure of the document.
This onlymakes sense given that the annotation of tempo-ral relation between events and time expressionswithin one sentence is informed by the syntacticstructure, and the temporal relation between sub-ordination and subordinating events benefits froman understanding of the predicate-argument struc-ture.The specific type of discourse structure we havein mind is the kind represented in the Penn Dis-course Treebank (Miltsakaki et al, 2004).
ThePenn Discourse Treebank-style of annotation caninform temporal relation annotation in at least twoways.
First, the Penn Discourse Treebank anno-tates the discourse relation between two adjacentsentences.
The discourse relation holds betweentwo abstract objects such as events or proposi-tions.
If a discourse relation holds between twoevents, the temporal relation between those twoevents might also be what we are interested in fortemporal annotation.
The implicit assumption isthat the discourse structure of a document repre-sents the important temporal relations within thatdocument as well.
(9) is an example taken fromthe Penn Discourse Treebank.
The discourse re-lation, characterized by the discourse connective?in particular?, holds between the events anchoredby?dropped?
and ?fell?.
The temporal relation be-tween these events also happens to be what wewould be interested in if we are to annotate themain events between two adjacent sentences.
No-tice that in (9), material that is irrelevant to thediscourse relation is taken out of the two argu-ments of this discourse relation, which are markedin italics and bold face respectively.
(9) Meanwhile, the average yield on taxablefunds dropped nearly a tenth of a percent-age point, the largest drop since midsum-mer.
implicit = in particular The averageseven-day compound yield, which assumesthat dividends are reinvested and that currentrates continue for a year, fell to 8.47%, itslowest since late last year, from 8.55% theweek before, according to Donoghue?s.The Penn Discourse Treebank also marks attri-butions when annotating discourse relations.
In1370(10), for example, ?he says?
will be marked as acase of attribution and the ?say?
verb would bemarked as the main event of the sentence if syn-tactic criteria are followed.
Having attributionsidentified would directly help with the temporalannotation of examples like (6), where the mainevent is embedded in direct quoted speech.
(10) When Mr. Green won a $240,000 verdict ina land condemnation case against the Statein June 1983, [he says] Judge O?Kickiunexpectedly awarded him an additional$100,000.As of now, the data we use for our temporalannotation experiment have not yet been anno-tated with discourse structures.
In order to makeour temporal annotation sensitive to the discoursestructure, we either have to annotate the discoursestructure in a separate pass, or to incorporate thekey elements of the discourse structure when de-veloping guidelines for temporal annotation.5 ConclusionWe described a Chinese temporal annotation ex-periment that produced a sizable data set forthe TempEval-2 annotation campaign.
We showthat while we have achieved high inter-annotatoragreement for simpler tasks such as identifica-tion of events and time expressions, temporal rela-tion annotation proves to be much more challeng-ing.
We show that in order to improve annotationconsistency it is important to strategically selectthe annotation targets, and this selection processshould be subject to syntactic, semantic and dis-course constraints.AcknowledgementsThis work is supported by the National Sci-ence Foundation via Grant No.
0855184 entitled?Building a community resource for temporal in-ference in Chinese?.
All views expressed in thispaper are those of the authors and do not neces-sarily represent the view of the National ScienceFoundation.ReferencesRegina Barzilay, Noemie Elhadad, and Kathleen McK-eown.
2002.
Inferring strategies for sentence order-ing in multidocument news summarization.
Journalof Artificial Intelligence Research, 17:35?55.Steven Bethard, James H. Martin, and Sara Klin-genstein.
2007.
Finding Temporal Structure inText: Machine Learning of Syntactic Temporal Re-lations.
International Journal of Semantic Comput-ing, 11(4).Lisa Ferro, Laurie Gerber, Inderjeet Mani, Beth Sund-heim, and George Wilson.
2004.
TIDES 2003 Stan-dard for the Annotation of Temporal Expressions.Elena Filatova and Eduard Hovy.
2001.
AssigningTime-Stamps to Event Clauses.
In Proceedings ofthe Workshop on Temporal and Spatial InformationProcessing, Toulouse.Sanda Harabagiu and Cosmin Adrian Bejan.
2005.Question Answering Based on Temporal Inference.In Proceedings of the AAAI-2005 Workshop on In-ference for Textual Question Answering, Pittsburgh,Pennsylvania.Sanda Harabagiu and Cosmin Adrian Bejan.
2006.
AnAnswer Bank for Temporal Inference.
In Proceed-ings of LREC 2006, Genoa, Italy.ISO/TC 37/SC 4/WG 2.
2007.
Language ResourceManagement ?
Semantic Annotation Framework(SemAF) ?
Part 1: Time and events.Charles Li and Sandra Thompson.
1981.
MandarinChinese: A Functional Reference Grammar.
Berke-ley, Los Angeles, London: University of CaliforniaPress.Chin-Yew Lin and Eduard Hovy.
2001.
Neats: A mul-tidocument summarizer.
In Proceedings of the Doc-ument Understanding Workshop.Inderjeet Mani and George Wilson.
2000.
Robusttemporal processing of news.
In Proceedings of theACL?2000, Hong Kong, China.Eleni Miltsakaki, Rashmi Prasad, Aravind Joshi, andBonnie Webber.
2004.
The Penn Discourse Tree-Bank.
In Proceedings of the Language Resourcesand Evaluation Conference, Lisbon, Portugal.Martha Palmer, Daniel Gildea, and Paul Kingsbury.2005.
The Proposition Bank: An annotated cor-pus of semantic roles.
Computational Linguistics,31(1):71?106.James Pustejovsky, Patrick Hanks, Roser Sauri,Andrew See, David Day, Lisa Ferro, RobertGaizauskas, Marcia Lazo, Andrea Setzer, and Beth1371Sundheim.
2003.
The TimeBank Corpus.
CorpusLinguistics, pages 647?656.James Pustejovsky, Bob Ingria, Roser Sauri, Jose Cas-tano, Jessica Littman, Rob Gaizauskas, Andrea Set-zer, G. Katz, and I. Mani.
2005.
The specificationlanguage TimeML.
In I. Mani, J. Pustejovsky, andR.
Gaizauskas, editors, The Language of Time: aReader.
Oxford University Press.Marc Verhagen, Robert Gaizauskas, Frank Schilder,Mark Hepple, Jessica Moszkowicz, and JamesPustejovsky.
2009.
The TempEval Challenge:Identifying Temporal Relation in Text.
LanguageResources and Evaluation, 43(1):161?179.Richard Xiao and Tony McEnery.
2004.
Aspect inMandarin Chinese: A Corpus-based Study.
Ams-terdam: John Benjamins.Nianwen Xue and Martha Palmer.
2009.
Adding se-mantic roles to the Chinese Treebank.
Natural Lan-guage Engineering, 15(1):143?172.Nianwen Xue, Fei Xia, Fu dong Chiou, and MarthaPalmer.
2005.
The Penn Chinese TreeBank: PhraseStructure Annotation of a Large Corpus.
NaturalLanguage Engineering, 11(2):207?238.1372
