Coling 2010: Poster Volume, pages 312?319,Beijing, August 2010Chinese Sentence-Level Sentiment Classification Based on Fuzzy SetsGuohong Fu and Xin WangSchool of Computer Science and Technology, Heilongjiang Universityghfu@hlju.edu.cn,wangxincs@hotmail.comAbstractThis paper presents a fuzzy set theorybased approach to Chinese sentence-levelsentiment classification.
Compared withtraditional topic-based text classificationtechniques, the fuzzy set theory providesa straightforward way to model theintrinsic fuzziness between sentimentpolarity classes.
To approach fuzzysentiment classification, we first proposea fine-to-coarse strategy to estimatesentence sentiment intensity.
Then, wedefine three fuzzy sets to represent therespective sentiment polarity classes,namely positive, negative and neutralsentiments.
Based on sentence sentimentintensities, we further build membershipfunctions to indicate the degrees of anopinionated sentence in different fuzzysets.
Finally, we determine sentence-levelpolarity under maximum membershipprinciple.
We show that our approach canachieve promising performance on thetest set for Chinese opinion analysis pilottask at NTCIR-6.1 IntroductionWith the explosive growth of the user-generatedcontent on the web over the past years, opinionmining has been attracting an ever-increasingamount of attention from the natural languageprocessing community.
As a key issue inopinions mining, sentiment classification aims toclassify opinionated documents or sentences asexpressing positive, negative or neutral opinions,and plays a critical role in many opinion miningapplications such as opinion summarization andopinion question answering.Although recent years have seen a greatprogress in sentiment analysis, it is stillchallenging to develop a practical sentimentclassifier for open applications.
This is largelydue to the particularities of subjective languages.Unlike factual text, opinion text is usuallyexpressed in a more subtle or arbitrary manner(Pang and Lee, 2008).
Moreover, the sentimentorientation of a subjective expression is oftencontext, domain and/or even order-dependent(Pang and Lee, 2008).
This makes it hard toexplore informative cues for sentimentclassification.
In particular, the final semanticorientation of an opinionated sentence oftendepends on the synthetic effects of all sentimentunits (e.g.
sentiment words or phrases) within it.Therefore, sentiment granularity selection andpolarity aggregation are two important factorsthat affect sentiment classification performance.In addition, real opinion texts do not containprecisely-defined criteria of membership withrespect to polarity classes.
Most current workemploys supervised machine learning techniqueslike naive Bayesian models and support vectormachines to perform sentiment classification.While they have shown a good performance intraditional topic-based text classification tasks(Wang, 2006), their applications in sentimentclassification are far from satisfactory (Pang etal., 2002).
The reason might be the intrinsicfuzziness between sentiment polarity classes.Relative to the concept of objective topics likesports and politics in traditional textclassification, the division between positivesentiments and negative sentiments is rathervague, which does not make clear boundarybetween their conceptual extensions.
Such vagueconceptual extension in sentiment polarityinevitably raises another challenge to sentimentclassification.312To address the above problems, in this paperwe exploit fuzzy set theory to perform Chinesesentiment classification at sentence level.
Toapproach this task, we first consider multiplesentiment granularities, including sentimentmorphemes, sentiment words and sentimentphrases, and develop a fine-to-coarse strategy forcomputing sentence sentiment intensity.
Then,we reformulate the three classes of sentimentorientations, namely positive, negative andneutral sentiments, as three fuzzy sets,respectively.
To describe the membership of anopinion sentence in a special sentiment fuzzy set,we further construct membership functions basedon sentence sentiment intensity, and thusdetermine the final semantic orientation of agiven opinionated sentence under the principle ofmaximum membership.
We show that theproposed approach can achieve a promisingperformance on the test set for Chinese opinionanalysis pilot task at NTCIR-6.The remainder of the paper is organized asfollows: Section 2 provides a brief review of theliterature on sentiment classification.
In Section 3,we describe the fine-to-coarse strategy forestimating sentiment intensity of opinionatedsentences.
Section 4 details how to apply fuzzyset theory in sentiment classification.
Section 5reports our experimental results on NTCIR-6Chinese opinion data.
Finally, section 6concludes our work and discusses some possibledirections for future research.2 Related WorkSentiment classification has been extensivelystudied at different granularity levels.
At lexicallevel, Andreevskaia and Bergler (2006) exploitan algorithm for extracting sentiment-bearingadjectives from the WordNet based on fuzzylogic.
Following (Turney, 2002), Yuen et al(2004) investigate the association betweenpolarity words and some strongly-polarizedmorphemes in Chinese, and present a method forinferring sentiment orientations of Chinese words.More recently, Ku et al (2009) consider eightmorphological types that constitute Chineseopinion words, and develop a machine learningbased classifier for Chinese word-level sentimentclassification.
They show that using wordstructural features can improve performance inword-level polarity classification.
At phase level,Turney (2002) presents a technique for inferringthe orientation and intensity of a phraseaccording to its PMI-IR statistical associationwith a set of strongly-polarized seed words.More recently, Wilson et al (2009) distinguishprior and contextual polarity, and thus describe amethod to phrase-level sentiment analysis.
Atsentence level, Yu and Hatzivassiloglou (2003)propose to classify opinion sentences as positiveor negative in terms of the main perspectivebeing expressed in opinionated sentences.
Kimand Hovy (2004) try to determine the finalsentiment orientation of a given sentence bycombining sentiment words within it.
However,their system is prone to produce error sentimentclassification because they only considersentiment words near opinion holders and ignoresome important words like adversativeconjunctions.
To compute sentiment intensity ofopinionated sentences, in this study we propose afine-to-coarse strategy, which take into accountmultiple granularity sentiments, from sentimentmorphemes, sentiment words to sentimentphrases, and can thus handle both unknownlexical sentiments and contextual sentiments insentiment classification.Most recent studies apply machine learningtechniques to perform sentiment classification.Pang et al (2002) attempt three machine learningmethods, namely naive Bayesian models,maximum entropy and support vector machinesin sentiment classification.
They conclude thatthe traditional machine learning methods do notperform well enough in sentiment analysis.Wilson et al (2009) further employ severalmachine learning algorithms to explore importantfeatures for contextual polarity identification.Different from most existing works that focus ontraditional text classification techniques, in thisstudy we attempt to resolve sentimentclassification problems under the framework offuzzy set theory.
We choose fuzzy set theorybecause it provides a more straightforward wayto represent the intrinsic fuzziness in sentiment.3 Sentence-Level Sentiment IntensityIn this section, we describe a fine-to-coarsestrategy to compute sentence-level sentimentintensity.
After a brief discussion of therelationship between Chinese sentiment wordsand their component morphemes in Section 3.1,313we extract a dictionary of sentiment morphemesfrom a sentiment lexicon, and compute theiropinion scores using a modified chi-squaretechnique.
Then, we develop two rule-basedstrategies for word-level and phrase-levelpolarity identification, respectively.
Finally, wecalculate the final sentiment intensity of anopinionated sentence by summing the opinionscore of all phrases within it.3.1 Sentiment words and morphemesAs shown in Table 1, Chinese sentiment wordscan be categorized into static polar words anddynamic polar words.
The polarity of a staticpolar word remains unchanged while a dynamicpolar word may have different polarity indifferent contexts or domains.Type ExamplePositive??
?beautiful?, ??
?gentle?Negative??
?beggary?, ??
?wrong?Staticpolarword Neutral???
?acceptable?Dynamic polar words?
?big?, ?
?high?Table 1.
Types of Chinese sentiment wordsFor a static polar word, its polarity can beeasily determined by referring to a sentimentlexicon.
However, a precompiled dictionarycannot cover all sentiment words in real text,which raises an issue of predicting the polarity ofout-of-vocabulary (OOV) sentiment words.
Toaddress this problem, we introduce sentimentmorphemes.
As Table 2 shows, here we considertwo types of sentiment morphemes, namelypositive morphemes and negative morphemes.MorphemetypesSentimentmorphemesSentiment wordscomposed by sentimentmorphemes??beauty?
??
?exquisite???
?graceful?
Positivemorphemes??love?
??
?like???
?adoration???dirty?
??
?pollution???
?corruption?
Negativemorphemes??fail?
??
?corruption???
?undermine?Table 2.
Types of Chinese sentiment morphemesIn most cases, the polarity of a sentiment wordis closely related to the semantic orientation ofits component morphemes.
In other words, word-level polarity can often be determined by somekey component sentiment morphemes withinsentiment words.
Take the following threesentiment words for example, ??
?undermine?,??
?corruption?, and ??
?degenerate?.
Theyshare a same negative sentiment morpheme ?
?fail?, and thus have the same negativeorientation.
Based on this observation, here weuse morpheme-level polarity, rather than asentiment lexicon, to predict the polarity of staticsentiment words, particularly the OOV sentimentwords in real text.As for dynamic sentiment words, traditionallexicon-based methods do not work for their realpolarity changes with contexts.
We will discussthe problem of dynamic polarity identification inSection 3.4.3.2 Identifying morpheme-level polaritySentiment morphemes prove to be helpful indealing with OOV polarity (Ku et al 2009).However, there is not a dictionary of sentimentmorphemes available for sentiment analysis.
Toavoid this, we propose to automatically extractsentiment morphemes from some existingsentiment lexicon using chi-square (?2) technique.Formula (1) presents the ?2 of a morpheme mwithin a sentiment word of category c.))()()(()(),(22122111222112112211222112nnnnnnnnnnnnncm++++????=?
(1)where m denotes a sentiment morpheme.
c?
{positive, negative} denotes the polarity of acertain sentiment word w that contain m. n is thetotal number of sentiment words in the lexicon.To calculate ?2, we need to construct a 2?2contingency table from the sentiment lexicon.
Asshown in Table 3, n11, n12, n21 and n22 denote theobserved frequencies, respectively.Polar word w belong to c not belong to ccontain m n11 n12not contain m n21 n22Table 3.
The 2?2 contingency table for ?2The traditional ?2 statistics in Formula (1) candemonstrate the degree of contributions that asentiment morpheme forms a special group ofsentiment words.
However, it cannot indicatewhether the morpheme and the sentimentcategory are either positively- or anti-correlated.314Such information is very important for inferringword-level polarity from sentiment morphemes.To compensate for this deficiency, we modifythe traditional ?2 by injecting positive correlationand anti-correlation.
Following (Wang, 2006),we introduce the following two rules indetermining the sign of correlation between thesentiment category of words and their componentsentiment morphemes. If n11?n22-n12?n21>0, the morpheme andthe sentiment category are positivelycorrelated.
In this case, a larger ?2 impliesa higher likelihood that the morphemebelongs to the sentiment category. If n11?n22-n12?n21<0, the morpheme andthe sentiment category are anti-correlated.In this case, a larger ?2 value implies ahigher likelihood that the morpheme doesnot belong to the sentiment category.Thus, we obtain a modified ?2 statistics asfollows.))()()(()()('2212211122211211221122211211222112nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnsign++++???????=?
(2)With the ?2' statistic, we can build a dictionaryof sentiment morphemes from a source sentimentlexicon, and further determine the polarity ofeach sentiment morpheme using the two rules asshown in Definitions 1 and 2.Definition 1 (positive sentiment morphemes).If the ?2' statistic between a morpheme m andpositive sentiment words is greater than zero,then m can be identified as positive.Definition 2 (negative sentiment morphemes).If the ?2' statistic between a morpheme m andpositive sentiment words is smaller than zero,then m can be identified as is negative.Table 4 illustrates some extracted sentimentmorphemes and their ?2' values.Types of morphemes Examples?2???beautiful?
111.78??love?
65.88 Positive morphemes??happy?
40.72??die?
-104.97??failed?
-45.28 Negative morphemes??evil?
-72.37Table 4.
?2?
values of sentiment morphemes3.3 Identifying word-level polarityTo determine word-level polarity, we employmorpheme-based rules.
First of all, we normalizethe ?2' value of each sentiment morpheme m into[-1, 1] by dividing it with the maximum absolutevalue.
Such normalized chi-square, denoted bychi(m), is further viewed as the opinion score ofthe sentiment morpheme m. Thus, we candetermine whether a word is a sentiment or notusing a simple rule: if a word contains sentimentmorphemes, it is a sentiment word.
Finally, wecan calculate the opinion score of a word wconsisting of morphemes mi, (1?i?2)1, using thefollowing two rules. If m1 is a negation, e.g.
?
?not?
and ?
?non-?, then Score(w)= -1?
chi(m2). If m1 is not a negation morpheme, thenScore(w)=Sign(chi(mi))?Max(|chi(mi)|).Where, Max(|chi(mi)|) is the largestabsolute value among the opinion scoresof morphemes within a word w,Sign(chi(mi)) denotes the positive ornegative sign of m, namely ?-?
and ?+?.3.4 Identifying phrase-level polarityTo handle contextual polarity, we apply lexicalpolarity to determine the sentiment orientation ofphrases within an opinionated sentence.
Based on(Hatzivassiloglou and Wiebe, 2000) and (Turney,2002), we consider four types of structures (asshown in Table 5) during sentiment phraseextraction.
To simplify the process, we reducesome function words like ?
??s?
and ?
?and?from the input sentences before extraction in thatthey have no influence on sentiment orientationdetermination, and focus on extracting twoconsecutive words.
Different from (Turney,2002), we consider phrases with negations astheir initial words.
In this way, we can handle thelocal negation that may reverse polarity.Phrase structures ExamplesPhases containing aadjective ????
?high success rate?Phrases containing averb ????
?carefully discuss?Phrase containing anidiom??????
/?intent todeceive the public?Phrases beginning witha negation ????
?no evidence?Table 5.
Structures of opinion phrases1For words that contain three or more characters,particularly the four-character idioms, their polaritycan be determined using the second rule.315After opinion phrase extraction, we continueto calculate the opinion score of the extractedphrases using rules that are similar to (Hu andLiu, 2004).
Before going to the details of phrase-level opinion score calculation, we need to givesome definitions in advance.Definition 3 (increased dynamic polar words).An increased dynamic polarity word can increasethe orientation strength of sentiment words that itmodifies without changing their polarity.
Forexample, the word ?
?serious?
in the phrase???
?serious pollution?
and the word ??high?
in  the phrase ???
?high benefit?.Definition 4 (decreased dynamic polar word).A decreased dynamic polarity word can decreasethe orientation strength of sentiment words that itmodifies and at the same time, reverse theirpolarity.
For example, the word ???
?little?
inthe phrase???
?little pollution?
and the word?
?low?
in the phrase ???
?low benefit?.To calculate phrase-level opinion scores, weconstruct a dictionary of dynamic polar words byextracting adjectives and verbs that contain asingle-character seed morpheme like ?
?little?from the training corpus.
Table 6 illustrates someincreased and decreased dynamic polar wordsand their signs for changing polarity.Dynamicpolar word Example Polarity signIncreased?
?high???
?increase???
?upgrade?Sign(increased)=1Decreased??
?down???
?reduce???
?diminish?Sign(decreased)=-1Table 6.
Dynamic words and their polarity signWith these dynamic polar words, we can thencalculate the opinion score of a given opinionphrase pi that consists of two words (denoted bywj, j?
{1,2}), using three rules as follows. If w1 is a negation, e.g.
?
?no?
and ??
?without?, then Score(pi) =  -1?Score(w2). If pi involves a dynamic word wd, thenScore(pi) = Sign(wd) ?
Score(wj).
Where,Sign(wd) denotes the polarity sign ofdynamic words shown in Table 6. Otherwise, Score(pi) = Sign(wj) ?
Max(|Score(wj)|).
Where Max(|Score(wordj)|)is the largest absolute value among theword-level opinion scores.4 Sentence Sentiment Classification4.1 Sentiment fuzzy sets and membershipfunctionsAs we have mentioned above, sentiment polarityis vague with regard to its conceptual extension.There is not a clear boundary between theconcepts of ?positive?, ?neutral?
and ?negative?.To better handle such intrinsic fuzziness insentiment polarity, we apply the fuzzy set theoryby (Zadeh, 1965) to sentiment classification.
Todo so, we first redefine sentiment classes as threefuzzy sets, and then apply existing fuzzydistributions to construct membership functionsfor the three sentiment fuzzy sets.In our formulation, all the opinionatedsentences under discussion are represented as asorted set, denoted by X, in terms of their opinionscores.
Thus, we have X = [Min(OpinionScore(Si)), ?, Max(Opinion Score(Si))].
Where,i={1,?,n}, Min(Opinion Score(Si)) andMax(Opinion Score(Si)) denotes the respectiveminimum and maximum opinion scores.
Thedetails of the fuzzy sets and their membershipfunctions are given in Definitions 5, 6 and 7,respectively.Definition 5 (positive sentiment fuzzy set).
if Xis a collection of sentiment opinions (denoted byx), then a positive sentiment fuzzy set P~ in X canbe defined as a set of ordered pairs, namely}|))(,{(~ ~ XxxxP P ?= ?
,where )(~ xP?
denotes the membership function ofx in P~  that maps X to the membership space M.We choose the rise semi-trapezoid distribution(Zimmermann, 2001) as the membershipfunction of the positive sentiment fuzzy set,namely???????>????<=bxbxaabaxaxxP,1,,0)(~?
(3)where x denotes the opinion score of a sentenceunder discussion.
The adjustable parameters aand b can be defined as a = Min(xi) + ?1(Max(xi)- Min(xi)/k) and b = Min(xi) + ?2(Max(xi) -Min(xi)/k), respectively.
Max(xi) and Min(xi)316denote the respective minimum and maximumvalues within X.
?1, ?2 and k are parameters.
Herewe set ?1= 5.2, ?2 = 5.4, and k = 10.Definition 6 (neutral sentiment fuzzy set).
if Xis a collection of sentiment opinions (denoted byx), then a neutral sentiment fuzzy set E~ in X canbe defined as a set of ordered pairs, namely}|))(,{(~ ~ XxxxE E ?= ?
,where )(~ xE?
denotes the membership function ofx in E~  that maps X to the membership space M.As shown in Formula (4), we also select thesemi-trapezoid distribution (Zimmermann, 2001)as the membership function of the neutralsentiment fuzzy set.????????????<???<?<???<=dxdxccdxdcxbbxaabaxaxxE,0,,1,,0)(~?
(4)where x denotes the opinion score of a sentenceunder test.
a, b, c and d are adjustable parametersthat can be defined as a = Min(xi) + ?1(Max(xi)-Min(xi)/k), b=Min(xi) +m1(Max(xi) - Min(xi)/k),c = Min(xi) + m2(Max(xi) - Min(xi)/k) and d=Min(xi) + ?2(Max(xi) - Min(xi)/k), respectively.Max(xi) and Min(xi) denotes the respectiveminimum and maximum values within X.
?1, ?2,m1, m2  and k are parameters, Here  we set ?1 =5.2, ?2 = 5.5, m1 = 5.26, m2 = 5.33, and k = 10.Definition 7 (negative sentiment fuzzy set).
if Xis a collection of sentiment opinions (denoted byx), then a negative sentiment fuzzy set N~ in Xcan be defined as a set of ordered pairs, namely}|))(,{(~ ~ XxxxN N ?= ?
,where )(~ xN?
denotes the membership functionof x in N~  that maps X to membership space M.To represent the membership function of thenegative sentiment fuzzy set, we employ the dropsemi-trapezoid distribution (Zimmermann, 2001),namely???????>????<=bxbxaabxbaxxN,0,,1)(~?
(5)where x denotes the opinion score of a subjectivesentence under discussion.
The adjustableparameters a and b can be defined as a = Min(xi)+ ?1(Max(xi) - Min(xi)/k) and b = Min(xi) +?2(Max(xi) - Min(xi)/k), respectively.
Max(xi) andMin(xi) refer to the corresponding minimum andmaximum values in X.
?1, ?2, and k areparameters.
Here we set ?1=5.2, ?2=5.3 and k=10.4.2 Determining sentence polarityBased on the above membership functions, wecan now calculate the grade of membership of agiven opinionated sentence in each sentimentfuzzy set, and thus determine its polarity underthe principle of maximum membership.
Thebasic idea is as follows: Let ?1, ?2, ?, ?n  be thefuzzy sets of X.
?x0?X, if~ ~0 01( ) max{ ( )}k ii nA x A x?
?=then x0 is a membership of the fuzzy set ?k.5 Experiments and ResultsTo assess the effectiveness of our approach, weimplemented a classification system for Chinesesentence-level sentiment analysis.
The systeminvolves three main modules, namely a lexicalanalysis module, a subjectivity detection moduleand a sentiment classification module.
Toexplore lexical cues for sentiment analysis, themorpheme-based chunking technique by (Fu, Kitand Webster, 2008) is employed in the lexicalanalysis module to carry out word segmentationand part-of-speech tagging tasks.
To conform tothe NTCIR-6 evaluation, a sentiment density-based naive Bayesian classifier is also embeddedin the second module to perform opinionatedsentence detection.
The details of this classifiercan be seen in (Wang and Fu, 2010).
To evaluateour system, we conducted experiments on theNTCIR-6 Chinese opinion data.
This sectionreports the experimental results.5.1 Experimental setupIn our experiments, we use the same test set forthe Chinese opinion analysis tasks at NTCIR-6.The basic statistics is presented in Table 7.
Forcomparison, the performance is reported in termsof the same metrics as used in NTCIR-6.
Theyare F-score (F), recall (R), precision (P) underthe LWK evaluation with lenient standard.317Item NumberTopics 32Documents 843Sentences 11907Opinionated sentences under thelenient standard62%Table 7.
Basic statistics of the test set forChinese opinion tasks at NTCIR-6The basic sentiment lexicon used in oursystem contains a total of 17138 sentiment words,which is built from the CUHK and NTUsentiment lexica by excluding some derivedopinion words like ???
?not beautiful?.
Inaddition, we also construct a list of 95 dynamicpolarity words using the method described inSection 3.4.5.2 Experimental resultsThe experiments are designed to examine thefollowing two issues:(1) As we have discussed above, it is a keyissue to select a proper granularity for sentimentclassification.
To determine the sentimentorientation of an opinionated sentence, we use afine-to-coarse strategy that considers three typesof sentiment units, namely sentiment morphemes,sentiment words and sentiment phrases.Therefore, the first intention of our experimentsis to investigate how the use of differentsentiment granularity affects the performance ofChinese sentence-level sentiment classification.To do this, we take the above three sentimentgranularity as the basic units for computingsentence-level sentiment intensity, respectively,and examine the relevant sentiment classificationresults.
(2) To the best of our knowledge, this studymay be the first attempt to apply the fuzzy settheory in Chinese sentiment classification.Therefore, our second motivation is to examinewhether it is feasible to apply fuzzy set theory insentiment classification by comparing our systemwith other public systems for Chinese opinionanalysis pilot task at NTCIR-6.Table 8 presents the experimental results withdifferent sentiment granularities.
It can beobserved that the system with word as the basicsentiment units slightly performs better than thesystem based on sentiment morphemes.
But aprominent improvement of performance can beobtained after using sentiment phrases.
Thisreason may be that under the fine-to-coarseframework, sentiment classification based onsentiment phrases can handle both internal andexternal contextual sentiment information, andcan thus result in performance improvement.Granularity P R FMorpheme 0.389 0.480 0.430Word 0.393 0.485 0.434Phrase 0.415 0.512 0.458Table 8.
Performance on sentiment classificationwith different sentiment granularityTable 9 illustrates the comparison of oursystem with the best system for Chinese opinionanalysis pilot task at NTCIR-6, namely theCUHK system (Seki et al, 2007; Xu, Wong andXia, 2007).
As can be seen from Table 9, oursystem outperforms the CUHK system by 5percents with regard to F-score, showing thefeasibility of using fuzzy set theory in sentimentclassification.System P R FCUHK 0.522 0.331 0.405Our system 0.415 0.512 0.458Table 9.
Comparison of our system with the bestsystem at NTCIR-6 under lenient standard6 Conclusion and Future WorkIn this paper, we have described a fuzzy settheory based framework for Chinese sentence-level sentiment classification.
To handleunknown polarity and contextual polarity as well,we consider three types of sentimentgranularities, namely sentiment morphemes,words and phrases in calculating sentimentintensity of opinionated sentenced.
Furthermore,we define three fuzzy sets to represent polarityclasses and construct the relevant membershipfunctions, respectively.
Compared with mostexisting work, the proposed approach provides astraightforward way to model the vagueness inconceptual division of sentiment polarity.
Theexperimental results show that our systemoutperforms the best system for Chinese opinionanalysis pilot task at NTCIR-6 under the lenientevaluation standard.The encouraging results of the fuzzy set-basedapproach suggest several possibilities for future318research.
Our experiments demonstrate that theincorporation of multiple granularity polarity hasa positive effect on sentiment classificationperformance.
To further enhance our system, infuture we intend to exploit more tailoredtechniques for aggregating multiple-granularitypolarity within opinionated sentences.
Moreover,we plan to optimize the proposed membershipfunctions for fuzzy sentiment classification.AcknowledgmentsThe authors would like to thank ChineseUniversity of Hong Kong, National TaiwanUniversity and NTCIR for their data.
This studywas supported by National Natural ScienceFoundation of China under Grant No.60973081,the Returned Scholar Foundation of EducationalDepartment of Heilongjiang Province underGrant No.1154hz26, and Harbin InnovativeFoundation for Returnees under GrantNo.2009RFLXG007, respectively.ReferencesAlina Andreevskaia, and Sabine Bergler.
2006.Mining WordNet for a fuzzy sentiment: Sentimenttag extraction from WordNet glosses.
InProceedings of EACL-06, pages 209-216.Xiaowen Ding, Bing Liu, and Philip S. Yu.
2008.
Aholistic lexicon-based approach to opinion mining.In Proceedings of the International Conference onWeb Search and Web Data Mining, pages 231-240.Guohong Fu, Chunyu Kit, and Jonathan J. Webster.2008.
Chinese word segmentation as morpheme-based lexical chunking.
Information Sciences,7(1):2282?2296.Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou, and Janyce Wiebe.
2000.Effects of adjective orientation and gradability onsentence subjectivity.
In Proceedings of ACL-00,pages 299-305.Soo-Min Kim, and Eduard Hovy.
2004.
Determiningthe sentiment of opinions.
In Proceedings ofCOLING-04, pages 1267-1373.Lun-Wei Ku, Ting-Hao Huang, and Hsin-Hsi Chen.2009.
Using morphological and syntactic structuresfor Chinese opinion.
In Proceedings of EMNLP-09,pages 1260-1269.Bo Pang, Lillian Lee, and Shivakumar Vaithyanathan.2002.
Thumps up?
Sentiment classification usingmachine learning techniques.
In Proceedings ofEMNLP-02, pages 79-86.Bo Pang, and Lillian Lee.
2008.
Opinion mining andsentiment analysis.
Foundations and Trends inInformation Retrieval, 2(1-2): 1-135.Yohei Seki, David Kirk Evans, Lun-Wei Ku, Hsin-Hsi Chen, Noriko Kando, and Chin-Yew Lin.
2007.Overview of opinion analysis pilot task at NTCIR-6.
In Proceedings of NTCIR-6 Workshop Meeting,pages 265-278.Peter D. Turney.
2002.
Thumbs up or thumbs down?Semantic orientation applied to unsupervisedclassification of reviews.
In Proceedings of ACL-03, pages 417-424.Xin Wang, and Guohong Fu.
2010.
Chinesesubjectivity detection using a sentiment density-based na?ve Bayesian classifier.
In Proceedings ofIWWIP-10.Yu Wang.
2006.
Research on text categorizationbased on decision tree and K-nearest neighbors.PhD thesis, Tianjin University.Theresa Wilson, Janyce Wiebe, and Paul Hoffmann.2009.
Recognizing contextual polarity: Anexploration of features for phrase-level sentimentanalysis.
Computational Linguistics, 35(3):99-433.Ruifeng Xu,  Kam-Fai Wong, and Yunqing Xia.
2007.Opinmine: Opinion mining system by CUHK forNTCIR-06 Pilot Task.
In Proceedings of NTCIR-6Workshop Meeting, pages 350-357.Hong Yu, and Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou.
2003.Towards answering opinion questions: Separatingfacts from opinions and identifying the polarity ofopinion sentences.
In Proceedings of EMNLP-03,pages 129-136.Raymond W.M.
Yuen, Terence Y.W.
Chan, Tom B.Y.Lai, O.Y.
Kwong, and Benjamin K.Y.
T'sou.
2004.Morpheme-based Derivation of Bipolar SemanticOrientation of Chinese Words.
In Proceedings ofCOLING-04, pages 1008-1014.Lotfi A. Zadeh.
1965.
Fuzzy sets.
Information andControl, 8:338-353.Hans-J?rgen Zimmermann.
2001.
Fuzzy set theoryand its applications.
Kluwer Academic Publishers,Norwell, MA, USA.319
