Coling 2010: Poster Volume, pages 534?542,Beijing, August 2010Identifying Contradictory and Contrastive Relations between Statementsto Outline Web Information on a Given TopicDaisuke Kawahara?
Kentaro Inui??
Sadao Kurohashi??
?National Institute of Information and Communications Technology?Graduate School of Information Sciences, Tohoku University?Graduate School of Informatics, Kyoto Universitydk@nict.go.jp, inui@ecei.tohoku.ac.jp, kuro@i.kyoto-u.ac.jpAbstractWe present a method for producing abird?s-eye view of statements that are ex-pressed on Web pages on a given topic.This method aggregates statements thatare relevant to the topic, and shows con-tradictory and contrastive relations amongthem.
This view of contradictions andcontrasts helps users acquire a top-downunderstanding of the topic.
To realizethis, we extract such statements and re-lations, including cross-document implicitcontrastive relations between statements,in an unsupervised manner.
Our experi-mental results indicate the effectiveness ofour approach.1 IntroductionThe quantity of information on theWeb is increas-ing explosively.
Online information includes newsreports, arguments, opinions, and other coverageof innumerable topics.
To find useful informationfrom such a mass of information, people gener-ally use conventional search engines such as Ya-hoo!
and Google.
They input keywords to a searchengine as a query and obtain a list of Web pagesthat are relevant to the keywords.
They then usethe list to check several dozen top-ranked Webpages one by one.This method of information access does notprovide a bird?s-eye view of the queried topic;therefore it can be highly time-consuming and dif-ficult for a user to gain an overall understanding ofwhat is written on the topic.
Also, browsing onlytop-ranked Web pages may provide the user withbiased information.
For example, when a userdirect contrastive statement ?A is more P than B?contrastive keyword pair (A, B)contradictory relation ?A is P?
?
?A is not P?contrastive relation ?A is P?
?
?B is P (not P)?Table 1: Overview of direct contrastive state-ments, contrastive keyword pairs and contradic-tory/contrastive relations.
Note that ?P?
is a pred-icate.searches for information on ?agaricus,?
claimedto be a health food, using a conventional searchengine, many commercial pages touting its healthbenefits appear at the top of the ranks, while otherpages remain low-ranked.
The user may miss anexisting Web page that indicates its unsubstanti-ated health benefits, and could be unintentionallysatisfied by biased or one-sided information.This paper proposes a method for produc-ing a bird?s-eye view of statements that are ex-pressed on Web pages on a given query (topic).In particular, we focus on presenting contradic-tory/contrastive relations and statements on thetopic.
This presentation enables users to graspwhat arguing points exist and furthermore to seecontradictory/contrastive relations between themat a glance.
Presenting these relations and state-ments is thought to facilitate users?
understandingof the topic.
This is because people typically thinkabout contradictory and contrastive entities and is-sues for decision-making in their daily lives.Our system presents statements and relationsthat are important and relevant to a given topic,including the statements and relations listed in Ta-ble 1.
Direct contrastive statements compare twoentities or issues in a single sentence.
The con-trasted entities or issues are also extracted as con-trastive keyword pairs.
In addition to them, our534sekken-wa gosei senzai-to chigai, kankyo-ni yoi.!"#$%&'%("")%*"+%,-.%./0&+"/1./,%#'%2"1$#+.
)%,"%'3/,-.42%).,.+(./,5!gosei senzai-de yogore-ga ochiru (15)6#'-%',#&/'%6&,-%'3/,-.42%).,.+(./,!gosei senzai-ni dokusei-ga aru (9)'3/,-.42%).,.+(./,%-#'%,"7&2&,3!
gosei senzai-ni dokusei-ga nai (2) '3/,-.42%).,.+(./,%&'%/",%,"7&2!sekken-de yogore-ga ochi-nai (6)/",%+.1"0.%',#&/%6&,-%'"#$!
sekken-de yogore-ga ochiru (4) +.1"0.%',#&/'%6&,-%'"#$!goseisenzai-de te-ga areru (7)13%-#/)%(.,'%+"8(-%6&,-%'3/).,!gosei senzai-wa kaimen kasseizai-wo fukumu (5)'3/,-.42%).,.+(./,%2"/,#&/'%'8+*#2,#/,!
[direct contrastive statement]!contrastive relation!contradictory relation!Legend:!Figure 1: Examples of statements on ?gosei senzai?
(synthetic detergent), which are represented byrounded rectangles.
Each statement is linked with the pages from which it is extracted.
The number ina parenthesis represents the number of pages.system shows contradictory and contrastive rela-tions between statements.
Contradictory relationsare the relations between statements that are con-tradictory about an entity or issue.
Contrastiverelations are the relations between statements inwhich two entities or issues are contrasted.In particular, we have the following two novelcontributions.?
We identify contrastive relations betweenstatements, which consist of in-documentand cross-document implicit relations.These relations complement direct con-trastive statements, which are explicitlymentioned in a single sentence.?
We precisely extract direct contrastive state-ments and contrastive keyword pairs in anunsupervised manner, whereas most previ-ous studies used supervised methods (Jindaland Liu, 2006b; Yang and Ko, 2009).Our system focuses on the Japanese language.For example, Figure 1 shows examples of ex-tracted statements on the topic ?gosei senzai?
(synthetic detergent).
Rounded rectangles repre-sent statements relevant to this topic.
The firststatement is a direct contrastive statement, whichrefers to a contrastive keyword pair, ?gosei sen-zai?
(synthetic detergent) and ?sekken?
(soap).The pairs of statements connected with a broadarrow have contradictory relations.
The pairs ofstatements connected with a thin arrow have con-trastive relations.
Users not only can see what iswritten on this topic at a glance, but also can checkout the details of a statement by following its linksto the original pages.2 Related WorkStudies have been conducted on automatic extrac-tion of direct contrastive sentences (comparativesentences) for English (Jindal and Liu, 2006b) andfor Korean (Yang and Ko, 2009).
They prepared aset of keywords that serve as clues to direct con-trastive sentences and proposed supervised tech-niques on the basis of tagged corpora.
We pro-pose an unsupervised method for extracting directcontrastive sentences without constructing taggedcorpora.From direct contrastive sentences, Jindal andLiu (2006a) and Satou and Okumura (2007) pro-posed methods for extracting quadruples of (tar-get, basis, attribute, evaluation).
Jindal and Liu(2006a) extracted these quadruples and obtainedan F-measure of 70%-80% for the extraction of?target?
and ?basis.?
Since this extraction was535not their main target, they did not perform er-ror analysis on the extracted results.
Satou andOkumura (2007) extracted quadruples from blogposts.
They provided a pair of named entitiesfor ?target?
and ?basis,?
whereas we automati-cally identify such pairs.
Ganapathibhotla and Liu(2008) proposed a method for detecting which en-tities (?target?
and ?basis?)
in a direct contrastivestatement are preferred by its author.There is also related work that focuses on non-contrastive sentences.
Ohshima et al (2006) ex-tracted coordinated terms, which are semanticallybroader than our contrastive keyword pairs, usinghit counts from a search engine.
They made useof syntactic parallelism among coordinated terms.Their task was to input one of coordinated termsas a query, which is different from ours.
Soma-sundaran and Wiebe (2009) presented a methodfor recognizing a stance in online debates.
Theyformulated this task as debate-side classificationand solved it by using automatically learned prob-abilities of polarity.To aggregate statements and detect relations be-tween them, one of important modules is recogni-tion of synonymous, entailed, contradictory andcontrastive statements.
Studies on rhetoricalstructure theory (Mann and Thompson, 1988) andrecognizing textual entailment (RTE) deal withthese relations.
In particular, evaluative work-shops on RTE have been held and this kind of re-search has been actively studied (Bentivogli et al,2009).
The recent workshops of this series set upa task that recognizes contradictions.
Harabagiuet al (2006), de Marneffe et al (2008), Voorhees(2008), and Ritter et al (2008) focused on rec-ognizing contradictions.
For example, Harabagiuet al (2006) used negative expressions, antonymsand contrast discourse relations to recognize con-tradictions.
These methods only detect relationsbetween given sentences, and do not create abird?s-eye view.To create a kind of bird?s-eye view, Kawahara etal.
(2008), Statement Map (Murakami et al, 2009)and Dispute Finder (Ennals et al, 2010) identi-fied various relations between statements includ-ing contradictory relations, but do not handle con-trastive relations, which are one of the importantrelations for taking a bird?s-eye view on a topic.Lerman and McDonald (2009) proposed a methodfor generating contrastive summaries about giventwo entities on the basis of KL-divergence.
Thisstudy is related to ours in the aspect of extractingimplicit contrasts, but contrastive summaries aredifferent from contrastive relations between state-ments in our study.3 Our MethodWe propose a method for grasping overall infor-mation on the Web on a given query (topic).
Thismethod extracts and presents statements that arerelevant to a given topic, including direct con-trastive statements and contradictory/contrastiverelations between these statements.As a unit for statements, we use a predicate-argument structure (also known as a case structureand logical form).
A predicate-argument struc-ture represents a ?who does what?
event.
Pro-cesses such as clustering, summarization, compar-ison with other knowledge and logical consistencyverification, which are required for this study andfurther analysis, are accurately performed on thebasis of predicate-argument structures.
The ex-traction of our target relations and statements isperformed via identification and aggregation ofsynonymous, contrastive, and contradictory rela-tions between predicate-argument structures.As stated in section 1, we extract direct con-trastive statements, contrastive keyword pairs, rel-evant statements, contrastive relations and contra-dictory relations.
We do this with the followingsteps:1.
Extraction and aggregation of predicate-argument structures2.
Extraction of contrastive keyword pairs anddirect contrastive statements3.
Identification of contradictory relations4.
Identification of contrastive relationsBelow, we first describe our method of extract-ing and aggregating predicate-argument struc-tures.
Then, we explain our method of extract-ing direct contrastive statements with contrastivekeyword pairs, and identifying contradictory andcontrastive relations in detail.5363.1 Extraction and Aggregation ofPredicate-argument StructuresA predicate-argument structure consists of a pred-icate and one or more arguments that have a de-pendency relation to the predicate.We extract predicate-argument structures fromautomatic parses of Web pages on a given topicby using the method of Kawahara et al (2008).We apply the following procedure to Web pagesthat are retrieved from the TSUBAKI (Shinzatoet al, 2008) open search engine infrastructure, byinputting the topic as a query.1.
Extract important sentences from each Webpage.
Important sentences are defined as sen-tences neighboring the topic word(s).2.
Obtain results of morphological analysis(JUMAN1) and dependency parsing (KNP2)of the important sentences, and extractpredicate-argument structures from them.3.
Filter out functional and meaninglesspredicate-argument structures, which arenot relevant to the topic.
Pointwise mutualinformation between the entire Web and thetarget Web pages for a topic is used.Note that the analyses in step 2 are performed be-forehand and stored in an XML format (Shinzatoet al, 2008).Acquired predicate-argument structures varywidely in their representations of predicates andarguments.
In particular, many separate predicate-argument structures have the same meaning due tospelling variations, transliterations, synonymousexpressions and so forth.
To cope with this prob-lem, we apply ?keyword distillation?
(Shibataet al, 2009), which is a process of absorbingspelling variations, synonymous expressions andkeywords with part-of relations on a set of Webpages about a given topic.
As a knowledge sourceto merge these expressions, this process uses aknowledge base that is automatically extractedfrom an ordinary dictionary and the Web.
Forinstance, the following predicate-argument struc-tures are judged to be synonymous3.1http://nlp.kuee.kyoto-u.ac.jp/nl-resource/juman-e.html2http://nlp.kuee.kyoto-u.ac.jp/nl-resource/knp-e.html3In this paper, we use the following abbreviations:(1) a. sekken-wosoap-ACCtsukauuseb.
sopu-wosoap-ACCtsukauusec.
sekken-wosoap-ACCshiyou-suruutilizeWe call the predicate-argument structures thatare obtained as the result of the above proce-dure statement candidates.
The final output ofour system consists of direct contrastive state-ments (with contrastive keyword pairs), top-Nstatements (major statements) in order of fre-quency of statement candidates, and statementswith contradictory/contrastive relations.
Contra-dictory/contrastive relations are identified againstmajor statements by searching statement candi-dates.Another outcome of keyword distillation is a re-sultant set of keywords that are important and rel-evant to the topic.
We call this set of keywordsrelevant keywords, which also include words orphrases in the query.
Relevant keywords are usedto extract contrastive keyword pairs.3.2 Extraction of Contrastive Keyword Pairsand Direct Contrastive StatementsWe extract contrastive keyword pairs from con-trastive constructs, which are manually speci-fied as patterns of predicate-argument structures.Statements that contain contrastive constructs aredefined as direct contrastive statements.For example, the following sentence is a typi-cal direct contrastive statement, which contains acontrastive verb ?chigau?
(differ).
(2) sekken-wasoap-TOPgosei senzai-tosynthetic detergent-ABLchigai,differ?
?
?
(soap differs from synthetic detergent, ?
?
?
)From this sentence, a contrastive keyword pair,?sekken?
(soap) and ?gosei senzai?
(synthetic de-tergent), is extracted.
The above sentence is ex-tracted as a direct contrastive statement.We preliminarily evaluated this simple pattern-based method and found that it has the followingthree problems.NOM (nominative), ACC (accusative), DAT (dative),ABL (ablative), CMI (comitative), GEN (genitive) andTOP (topic marker).537?
Keyword pairs that are mentioned in a con-trastive construct are occasionally not rele-vant to the given topic.?
Non-contrastive keyword pairs are erro-neously extracted due to omissions of at-tributes and targets of comparisons.?
Non-contrastive keyword pairs that have anis-a relation are erroneously extracted.To deal with the first problem, we filter out key-word pairs that are contrastive but that are not rel-evant to the topic.
For this purpose, we apply fil-tering by using relevant keywords, which are de-scribed in section 3.1.As an example of non-contrastive keywordpairs (the second problem), from the followingsentence, a keyword pair, ?tokkyo seido?
(patentsystem) and ?nihon?
(Japan), is incorrectly ex-tracted by the pattern-based method.
(3) amerika-noAmerica-GENtokkyo seido-wapatent system-TOPnihon-toJapan-ABLkotonari,different?
?
?
(patent system of America is different from ?
ofJapan ?
?
?
)In this sentence, ?nihon?
(Japan) has a meaning of?nihon-no tokkyo seido?
(patent system of Japan).That is to say, ?tokkyo seido?
(patent system),which is the attribute of comparison, is omitted.In this study, in addition to patterns of con-trastive constructs, we use checking and filteringon the basis of similarity.
The use of similarityis inspired by the semantic parallelism betweencontrasted keywords.
As this similarity, we em-ploy distributional similarity (Lin, 1998), whichis calculated using automatic dependency parsesof 100 million Japanese Web pages.
By search-ing similar keywords from the above sentence, wesuccessfully extract a contrastive keyword pair,?amerika?
(America) and ?nihon?
(Japan), andthe above sentence as a direct contrastive state-ment.Similarly, a target of comparison can be omittedas in the following sentence.
(4) nedan-waprice-TOPgosei senzai-yorisynthetic detergent-ABLtakaidesuhigh(price of ?
is higher than synthetic detergent)In this example, the similarity between ?nedan?
(price) and ?gosei senzai?
(synthetic detergent) islower than a threshold, and this sentence and theextracts from it are filtered out.As for the third problem, we may extract non-contrastive keyword pairs that have an is-a rela-tion.
From the following sentence, we incorrectlyextract a contrastive keyword pair, ?konbini?
(con-venience store) and ?7-Eleven,?
which cannot befiltered out due to its high similarity.
(5) 7-Eleven-wa7-Eleven-TOPhokanootherkonbini-toconvenience store-ABLkurabete,compare?
?
?
(7-Eleven is ?
?
?
compared to other conveniencestores)To deal with this problem, we use a filter on thebasis of a set of words that indicate the existenceof hypernyms, such as ?hokano?
(other) and ip-panno (general).
We prepare six words for thispurpose.To sum up, we use the following procedure toidentify contrast keyword pairs.1.
Extract predicate-argument structures that donot match the above is-a patterns and matchone of the following patterns.
They are ex-tracted from the statement candidates.?
X-wa Y-to {chigau | kotonaru | kuraberu}(X {differ | vary | compare} from/with Y)?
X-wa Y-yori [adjective](X is more ?
?
?
than Y)Note that each of X and Y is a noun phrasein the argument position.2.
Extract (x, y) that satisfies both the follow-ing conditions as a contrastive keyword pair.Note that (x, y) is part of a word sequence in(X, Y), respectively.?
Both x and y are included in a set of rel-evant keywords.?
(x, y) has the highest similarity amongany other candidates of (x, y), and thissimilarity is higher than a threshold.Note that the threshold is determined based on apreliminary experiment using a set of synonyms(Aizawa, 2007).
We extract the sentence that con-tains the predicate-argument structure used in step1 as a direct contrastive statement.5383.3 Identification of Contradictory RelationsWe identify contradictory relations between state-ment candidates.
In this paper, contradictory re-lations are defined as the following two types(Kawahara et al, 2008).negation of predicateIf the predicate of a candidate statement isnegated, its contradiction has the same or synony-mous predicate without negation.
If not, its con-tradiction has the same or synonymous predicatewith negation.
(6) a. sekken-gasoap-NOMkankyou-nienvironment-DATyoigoodb.
sekken-gasoap-NOMkankyou-nienvironment-DATyoku-nainot goodantonym of predicateThe predicate of a contradiction is an antonymof that of a candidate statement.
To judge antony-mous relations, we use an antonym lexicon ex-tracted from a Japanese dictionary (Shibata et al,2008).
This lexicon consists of approximately2,000 entries.
(7) a. gosei senzai-gasynthetic detergent-NOManzen-dasafeb.
gosei senzai-gasynthetic detergent-NOMkiken-dadangerousTo identify contradictory relations betweenstatements in practice, we search statement can-didates that satisfy one of the above conditionsagainst major statements.3.4 Identification of Contrastive RelationsWe identify contrastive relations between state-ment candidates.
In this paper, we define a con-trastive relation as being between a pair of state-ment candidates whose arguments are contrastivekeyword pairs and whose predicates have synony-mous or contradictory relations.
Contradictory re-lations of predicates are defined in the same wayas section 3.3.In the following example, (a, b) and (a, c) havea contrastive relation.
Also, (b, c) has a contradic-tory relation.
(8) a. gosei senzai-desynthetic detergent-CMIyogore-gastain-NOMochiruwashTopic: bio-ethanol?
(bio-ethanol fuel, gasoline)(bio-ethanol car, electric car)Topic: citizen judgment system?
(citizen judgment system, jury system)(citizen judgment system, lay judge system)Topic: patent system?
(patent system, utility model system)(large enterprise, small enterprise)Topic: Windows Vista?
(Vista, XP)Table 2: Examples of extracted contrastive key-word pairs (translated into English).b.
sekken-desoap-CMIyogore-gastain-NOMochiruwashc.
sekken-desoap-CMIyogore-gastain-NOMochi-nainot washThe process of identifying contrastive relationsbetween statements is performed in the same wayas the identification of contradictory relations.That is to say, we search statement candidatesthat satisfy the definition of contrastive relationsagainst major statements.4 ExperimentsWe conducted experiments for extracting con-trastive keyword pairs, direct contrastive state-ments and contradictory/contrastive relations on50 topics, such as age of adulthood, anticancerdrug, bio-ethanol, citizen judgment system, patentsystem and Windows Vista.We retrieve at most 1,000 Web pages for a topicfrom the search engine infrastructure, TSUBAKI.As major statements, we extract 10 statement can-didates in order of frequency.Below, we first evaluate the extracted con-trastive keyword pairs and direct contrastive state-ments, and then evaluate the identified contradic-tory and contrastive relations between statements.4.1 Evaluation of Contrastive Keyword Pairsand Direct Contrastive StatementsContrastive keyword pairs and direct contrastivestatements were extracted on 30 of 50 topics.
99direct contrastive statements and 73 unique con-trastive keyword pairs were obtained on 30 topics.The average number of obtained contrastive key-word pairs for a topic was approximately 2.4.
Ta-539Topic: ?tyosakuken hou?
(copyright law)?syouhyouken-wa tyosakuken-yori zaisantekina kachi-wo motsu.
?The trademark right has more financial value than the copyright.
?tyosakuken hou-de hogo-sareru?
?
?tyosakuken hou-de hogo-sare-nai?protected by the copyright law not protected by the copyright law?tyosakuken-wo shingai-suru?
?
?tyosakuken-wo shingai-shi-nai?infringe the copyright not infringe the copyright?
?syouhyouken-wo shingai-shi-nai?not infringe the trademark rightTopic: ?genshiryoku hatsuden syo?
(nuclear power plant)?genshiryoku hatsuden syo-wa karyoku hatsuden syo-to chigau.
?Nuclear power plants are different from thermoelectric power plants.
?CO2-wo hassei-shi-nai?
?
?CO2-wo hassei-suru?not emit carbon dioxide emit carbon dioxide?genpatsu-wo tsukuru?
?
?genshiryoku hatsuden syo-wo tsukura-nai?construct a nuclear power plant not construct a nuclear power plant?
?karyoku hatsuden syo-wo tsukuru?construct a thermoelectric power plantTable 3: Examples of identified direct contrastive statements, contradictory relations and contrastiverelations.
The sentences with two underlined parts are direct contrastive statements.
The arrows ??
?and ???
represent a contradictory relation and a contrastive relation, respectively.ble 2 lists examples of obtained contrastive key-word pairs.
We successfully extracted not onlycontrastive keyword pairs including topic words,but also those without them.Our manual evaluation of the extracted con-trastive keyword pairs found that 89% (65/73) ofthe contrastive keyword pairs are actually con-trasted in direct contrastive statements.
Correctcontrastive keyword pairs were extracted on 28 of30 topics.
We also evaluated the contrastive key-word pairs extracted without similarity filtering.In this case, 190 contrastive keyword pairs on 41topics were extracted and 44% (84/190) of themwere correct.
Correct contrastive keyword pairswere extracted on 31 of 41 topics.
Therefore, sim-ilarity filtering did not largely decrease the recall,but significantly increased the precision.We have eight contrastive keyword pairs thatwere incorrectly extracted by our proposedmethod.
These contrastive keyword pairs acciden-tally have similarity that is higher than the thresh-old.
Major errors were caused by the ambiguity ofJapanese ablative keyword ?yori.?
(9) heisya-waour company-TOPbitWallet sya-yoribitWallet, Inc.-ABLEdy gifuto-noEdy gift-GENgyomu itaku-woentrustment-ACCukete-imasuhave(Our company is entrusted with Edy gift by bitWal-let, Inc.)In this example, ?yori?
means not the basis ofcontrast but the source of action.
The similar-ity filtering usually prevents incorrect extractionfrom such a non-contrastive sentence.
However,in this case, the pair of ?heisya?
(our company)and ?bitWallet sya?
(bitWallet, Inc.) was not fil-tered due to the high similarity between them.
Tocope with this problem, it is necessary to use lin-guistic knowledge such as case frames.4.2 Evaluation of Contradictory andContrastive RelationsContradictory relations were identified on 49 of50 topics.
For 49 topics, 268 contradictory re-lations were identified.
The average number ofidentified contradictory relations for a topic was5.5.
Contrastive relations were identified on 18of 30 topics, on which contrastive keyword pairswere extracted.
For the 18 topics, 60 contrastiverelations were identified.
The average number ofidentified contrastive relations for a topic was 3.3.Table 3 lists examples of the identified contra-dictory and contrastive relations as well as directcontrastive statements.
We manually evaluatedthe identified contradictory relations and the con-trastive relations that were identified for correctcontrastive keyword pairs.
As a result, we con-cluded that they completely obey our definitions.We also classified each of the obtained contra-dictory and contrastive relations into two classes:?cross-document?
and ?in-document.?
?Cross-540Topic: age of adulthoodlower the age of adulthood to 18?
lower the voting age to 18Topic: anticancer druganticancer drugs have side effects?
anticancer drugs have effectsTable 4: Examples of unidentified contrastive re-lations (translated into English).document?
means that a contradictory/contrastiverelation is obtained not from a single page butacross multiple pages.
If a relation can beobtained from both, we classified it into ?in-document.?
As a result, 67% (179/268) of contra-dictory relations and 70% (42/60) of contrastiverelations were ?cross-document.?
We can see thatmany cross-document implicit relations that can-not be retrieved from a single page were success-fully identified.4.3 DiscussionsWe successfully identified contradictory relationson almost all the topics.
However, out of 50 top-ics, we extracted contrastive keyword pairs on 30topics and contrastive relations on 18 topics.
Toinvestigate the resultant contrastive relations fromthe viewpoint of recall, we manually checkedwhether there were unidentified contrastive rela-tions among 100 statement candidates for eachtopic.
We actually checked 20 topics and foundsix unidentified contrastive relations in total.
Ta-ble 4 lists examples of the unidentified contrastiverelations.
Out of 20 topics, in total, 44 contrastiverelations are manually discovered on 13 topics,but out of 13 topics, 38 contrastive relations areidentified on eight topics by our method.
There-fore, we achieved a recall of 86% (38/44) at rela-tion level and 62% (8/13) at topic level.
We cansee that our method was able to cover a relativelywide range of contrastive relations on the topicson which our method successfully extracted con-trastive keyword pairs.To detect such unidentified contrastive rela-tions, it is necessary to robustly extract contrastivekeyword pairs.
In the future, we will employ abootstrapping approach to identify patterns of di-rect contrastive statements and contrastive key-!"#$"%&'(#)*$+#'#,-#&'!+.$&.'$!"#$"%&'(#)*$+#'#,-#&'!!"#$"./0!1/"($12'($"%&'(#)*$+#'#,-#&'!1/"($12'($"./0!3!#,%4$"%&'(#)*$+#'#,-#&'!5678$92#1$.:$;!"#$"%&'(#)*$+#'#,-#&'<!5678$92#1$.:$;+.$&.'$!
"#$"%&'(#)*$+#'#,-#&'<!Figure 2: A view of major, contradictory and con-trastive statements in WISDOM.word pairs.
We will also use patterns of con-trastive discourse structures as well as those ofpredicate-argument structures.5 ConclusionThis paper has described a method for producing abird?s-eye view of statements that are expressed inWeb pages on a given topic.
This method aggre-gates statements relevant to the topic and showsthe contradictory/contrastive relations and state-ments among them.In particular, we successfully extracted directcontrastive statements in an unsupervised man-ner.
We specified only several words for theextraction patterns and the filtering.
Therefore,our method for Japanese is thought to be easilyadapted to other languages.
We also proposeda novel method for identifying contrastive rela-tions between statements, which included cross-document implicit relations.
These relations com-plemented direct contrastive statements.We have incorporated our proposed methodinto an information analysis system, WISDOM4(Akamine et al, 2009), which can show multi-faceted information on a given topic.
Now, thissystem can show contradictory/contrastive rela-tions and statements as well as their contexts asa view of KWIC (keyword in context) (Figure 2).This kind of presentation facilitates users?
under-standing of an input topic.4http://wisdom-nict.jp/541ReferencesAizawa, Akiko.
2007.
On calculating word similarityusing web as corpus.
In Proceedings of IEICE Tech-nical Report, SIG-ICS, pages 45?52 (in Japanese).Akamine, Susumu, Daisuke Kawahara, YoshikiyoKato, Tetsuji Nakagawa, Kentaro Inui, Sadao Kuro-hashi, and Yutaka Kidawara.
2009.
WISDOM:A web information credibility analysis system.
InProceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 SoftwareDemonstrations, pages 1?4.Bentivogli, Luisa, Ido Dagan, Hoa Dang, Danilo Gi-ampiccolo, and Bernardo Magnini.
2009.
The fifthPASCAL recognizing textual entailment challenge.In Proceedings of TAC 2009 Workshop.de Marneffe, Marie-Catherine, Anna N. Rafferty, andChristopher D. Manning.
2008.
Finding contradic-tions in text.
In Proceedings of ACL-08: HLT, pages1039?1047.Ennals, Rob, Beth Trushkowsky, and John MarkAgosta.
2010.
Highlighting disputed claims on theweb.
In Proceedings of WWW 2010.Ganapathibhotla, Murthy and Bing Liu.
2008.
Miningopinions in comparative sentences.
In Proceedingsof COLING 2008, pages 241?248.Harabagiu, Sanda, Andrew Hickl, and Finley Laca-tusu.
2006.
Negation, contrast and contradictionin text processing.
In Proceedings of AAAI-06.Jindal, Nitin and Bing Liu.
2006a.
Identifying com-parative sentences in text documents.
In Proceed-ings of SIGIR 2006.Jindal, Nitin and Bing Liu.
2006b.
Mining compar-ative sentences and relations.
In Proceedings ofAAAI-06.Kawahara, Daisuke, Sadao Kurohashi, and KentaroInui.
2008.
Grasping major statements and theircontradictions toward information credibility analy-sis of web contents.
In Proceedings of WI?08, shortpaper, pages 393?397.Lerman, Kevin and Ryan McDonald.
2009.
Con-trastive summarization: An experiment with con-sumer reviews.
In Proceedings of NAACL-HLT2009, Companion Volume: Short Papers, pages113?116.Lin, Dekang.
1998.
Automatic retrieval and cluster-ing of similar words.
In Proceedings of COLING-ACL98, pages 768?774.Mann, William and Sandra Thompson.
1988.
Rhetor-ical structure theory: toward a functional theory oftext organization.
Text, 8(3):243?281.Murakami, Koji, Eric Nichols, Suguru Matsuyoshi,Asuka Sumida, Shouko Masuda, Kentaro Inui, andYuji Matsumoto.
2009.
Statement map: Assistinginformation credibility analysis by visualizing argu-ments.
In Proceedings of WICOW 2009.Ohshima, Hiroaki, Satoshi Oyama, and KatsumiTanaka.
2006.
Searching coordinate terms withtheir context from the web.
In Proceedings of WISE2006, pages 40?47.Ritter, Alan, Stephen Soderland, Doug Downey, andOren Etzioni.
2008.
It?s a contradiction ?
no, it?snot: A case study using functional relations.
In Pro-ceedings of EMNLP 2008, pages 11?20.Satou, Toshinori and Manabu Okumura.
2007.
Ex-traction of comparative relations from Japanese we-blog.
In IPSJ SIG Technical Report 2007-NL-181,pages 7?14 (in Japanese).Shibata, Tomohide, Michitaka Odani, Jun Harashima,Takashi Oonishi, and Sadao Kurohashi.
2008.SYNGRAPH: A flexible matching method based onsynonymous expression extraction from an ordinarydictionary and a web corpus.
In Proceedings of IJC-NLP 2008, pages 787?792.Shibata, Tomohide, Yasuo Banba, Keiji Shinzato, andSadao Kurohashi.
2009.
Web information organi-zation using keyword distillation based clustering.In Proceedings of WI?09, short paper, pages 325?330.Shinzato, Keiji, Tomohide Shibata, Daisuke Kawa-hara, Chikara Hashimoto, and Sadao Kurohashi.2008.
TSUBAKI: An open search engine in-frastructure for developing new information accessmethodology.
In Proceedings of IJCNLP 2008,pages 189?196.Somasundaran, Swapna and Janyce Wiebe.
2009.Recognizing stances in online debates.
In Proceed-ings of ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 226?234.Voorhees, Ellen M. 2008.
Contradictions and justi-fications: Extensions to the textual entailment task.In Proceedings of ACL-08: HLT, pages 63?71.Yang, Seon and Youngjoong Ko.
2009.
Extract-ing comparative sentences from korean text docu-ments using comparative lexical patterns and ma-chine learning techniques.
In Proceedings of ACL-IJCNLP 2009 Conference Short Papers, pages 153?156.542
