Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2010), pages 1110?1118,Beijing, August 2010Hungarian Corpus of Light Verb ConstructionsVeronika VinczeUniversity of SzegedDepartment of Informaticsvinczev@inf.u-szeged.huJa?nos CsirikHungarian Academy of SciencesResearch Group on Artificial Intelligencecsirik@inf.u-szeged.huAbstractThe precise identification of light verbconstructions is crucial for the successfulfunctioning of several NLP applications.In order to facilitate the development ofan algorithm that is capable of recogniz-ing them, a manually annotated corpus oflight verb constructions has been built forHungarian.
Basic annotation guidelinesand statistical data on the corpus are alsopresented in the paper.
It is also shownhow applications in the fields of machinetranslation and information extraction canmake use of such a corpus and an algo-rithm.1 IntroductionIn this paper, we report a corpus containing lightverb constructions in Hungarian.
These expres-sions are neither productive nor idiomatic andtheir meaning is not totally compositional (thenoun is usually taken in one of its literal senses butthe verb usually loses its original sense to someextent), as it can be seen in the examples from dif-ferent languages shown below.
Since their mean-ing is the same, only literal translations are pro-vided:?
English: to give a lecture, to come intobloom, the problem lies (in)?
German: halten eine Vorlesung to hold a pre-sentation, in Blu?te stehen in bloom to stand,das Problem liegt (in) the problem lies (in)?
French: faire une pre?sentation to make a pre-sentation, e?tre en fleur to be in bloom, leproble`me re?side (dans) the problem resides(in)?
Hungarian: elo?ada?st tart presentation-ACC holds, vira?gba borul bloom-ILL falls,proble?ma rejlik (vmiben) problem hides (insg)Several terms like complex verb structures, sup-port verb constructions or light verb constructionshave been used1 for these constructions in the lit-erature (Langer, 2004).
In this paper, the termlight verb constructions will be employed.The structure of the paper is as follows.
First,the importance of the special NLP treatment oflight verb constructions is emphasized in section2.
The precise identification of such constructionsis crucial for the successful functioning of NLPapplications, thus, it is argued that an algorithmis needed to automatically recognize them (sec-tion 4).
In order to facilitate the development ofsuch an algorithm, a corpus of light verb construc-tions has been built for Hungarian, which is pre-sented together with statistical data in section 5.Finally, it is shown how NLP applications in thefields of machine translation and information ex-traction can profit from the implementation of analgorithm capable of identifying light verb con-structions (section 6).2 Light verb constructions in NLPIn natural language processing, one of the mostchallenging tasks is the proper treatment of col-1There might be slight theoretical differences in the usageof these terms ?
e.g.
semantically empty support verbs arecalled light verbs in e.g.
Meyers et al (2004a), that is, theterm support verb is a hypernym of light verb.
However,these differences are not analyzed in detail in this paper.1110locations, which term comprises light verb con-structions as well.
Every multiword expressionis considered to be a collocation if its membersoften co-occur and its form is fixed to some ex-tent (Siepmann, 2005; Siepmann, 2006; Sag et al,2001; Oravecz et al, 2004; Va?radi, 2006).
Col-locations are frequent in language use and theyusually exhibit unique behaviour, thus, they oftenpose a problem to NLP systems.Light verb constructions deserve special atten-tion in NLP applications for several reasons.
First,their meaning is not totally compositional, that is,it cannot be computed on the basis of the mean-ings of the parts of the collocation and the waythey are related to each other.
Thus, the result oftranslating the parts of the collocation can hardlybe considered as the proper translation of the orig-inal expression.
Second, light verb constructions(e.g.
make a mistake) often share their syntac-tic pattern with other constructions such as lit-eral verb + noun combinations (e.g.
make a cake)or idioms (e.g.
make a meal), thus, their identi-fication cannot be based on solely syntactic pat-terns.
Third, since the syntactic and the seman-tic head of the construction are not the same ?the syntactic head being the verb and the seman-tic head being the noun ?, they require specialtreatment when parsing.
It can be argued thatthey form a complex verb similarly to phrasal orprepositional verbs (as reflected in the term com-plex verb structures).
Thus, it is advisable to indi-cate their special syntacto-semantic relationship:in dependency grammars, the new role QUASI-ARGUMENT might be proposed for this purpose.3 Related workLight verb constructions ?
as a subtype of multi-word expressions ?
have been paid special atten-tion in NLP literature.
Sag et al (2001) classifythem as a subtype of lexicalized phrases and flex-ible expressions.
They are usually distinguishedfrom productive or literal verb + noun construc-tions on the one hand and idiomatic verb + nounexpressions on the other hand: e.g.
Fazly andStevenson (2007) use statistical measures in orderto classify subtypes of verb + noun combinationsand Diab and Bhutada (2009) developed a chunk-ing method for classifying multiword expressions.Identifying multiword expressions in generaland light verb constructions in particular is notunequivocal since constructions with similar syn-tactic structure (e.g.
verb + noun combinations)can belong to different subclasses on the produc-tivity scale (i.e.
productive combinations, lightverb constructions and idioms).
That is why well-designed and tagged corpora of multiword ex-pressions are invaluable resources for training andtesting algorithms that are able to identify multi-word expressions.
For instance, Gre?goire (2007)describes the design and implementation of a lexi-con of Dutch multiword expressions.
Focusing onmultiword verbs, Kaalep and Muischnek (2006;2008) present an Estonian database and a corpusand Krenn (2008) describes a database of GermanPP-verb combinations.
The Prague DependencyTreebank also contains annotation for light verbconstructions (Cinkova?
and Kola?r?ova?, 2005) andNomBank (Meyers et al, 2004b) provides the ar-gument structure of common nouns, paying atten-tion to those occurring in support verb construc-tions as well.
On the other hand, Zarrie?
and Kuhn(2009) make use of translational correspondenceswhen identifying multiword expressions (amongthem, light verb constructions).
A further exam-ple of corpus-based identification of light verbconstructions in English is described in Tan et al(2006).Light verb constructions are considered to besemi-productive, that is, certain verbs tend to co-occur with nouns belonging to a given semanticclass.
A statistical method is applied to measurethe acceptability of possible light verb construc-tions in Stevenson et al (2004), which correlatesreasonably well with human judgments.4 Identifying light verb constructionsA database of light verb constructions and an an-notated corpus might be of great help in the au-tomatic recognition of light verb constructions.They can serve as a training database when imple-menting an algorithm for identifying those con-structions.The recognition of light verb constructions can-not be solely based on syntactic patterns for other(productive or idiomatic) combinations may ex-hibit the same verb + noun scheme (see section11112).
However, in agglutinative languages such asHungarian, nouns can have several grammaticalcases, some of which typically occur in a lightverb construction when paired with a certain verb.For instance, the verb hoz ?bring?
is a transitiveverb, that is, it usually occurs with a noun in theaccusative case.
On the other hand, when it is pre-ceded or followed by a noun in the sublative orillative case (the typical position of the noun inHungarian light verb constructions being right be-fore or after the verb2), it is most likely a light verbconstruction.
To illustrate this, we offer some ex-amples:vizet hozwater-ACC bring?to bring some water?zavarba hoztrouble-ILL bring?to embarrass?The first one is a productive combination (withthe noun being in the accusative form) while thesecond one is a light verb construction.
Note thatthe light verb construction also has got an argu-ment in the accusative case (syntactically speak-ing, a direct object complement) as in:Ez a megjegyze?s mindenkit zavarba ho-zott.this the remark everyone-ACC trouble-ILL bring-PAST-3SG?This remark embarrassed everybody.
?Thus, the presence of an argument in the ac-cusative does not imply that the noun + verb com-bination is a light verb construction.
On the otherhand, the presence of a noun in the illative orsublative case immediately preceding or follow-ing the verb strongly suggests that a light verb in-stance of hoz is under investigation.Most light verb constructions have a verbalcounterpart derived from the same stem as thenoun, which entails that it is mostly deverbal2In a neutral sentence, the noun is right before the verb,in a sentence containing focus, it is right after the verb.nouns that occur in light verb constructions (asin make/take a decision compared to decide ordo?nte?st hoz vs. do?nt in Hungarian).
The identifi-cation of such nouns is possible with the help of amorphosyntactic parser that is able to treat deriva-tion as well (e.g.
hunmorph for Hungarian (Tro?net al, 2005)), and the combination of a possiblelight verb and a deverbal noun typically results ina light verb construction.Thus, an algorithm that makes use of mor-phosyntactic and derivational information andpreviously given lists can be constructed to iden-tify light verb constructions in texts.
It is impor-tant that the identification of light verb construc-tions precedes syntactic parsing, for the noun andthe verb in the construction form one complexpredicate, which has its effects on parsing: otherarguments belong not solely to the verb but to thecomplex predicate.To the best of our knowledge, there are no cor-pora of light verb constructions available for Hun-garian.
That is why we decided to build such acorpus.
The corpus is described in detail in sec-tion 5.
On the basis of the corpus developed, weplan to design an algorithm to automatically iden-tify light verb constructions in Hungarian.5 The corpusIn order to facilitate the extraction and the NLPtreatment of Hungarian light verb constructions,we decided to build a corpus in which light verbconstructions are annotated.
The Szeged Tree-bank (Csendes et al, 2005) ?
a database in whichwords are morphosyntactically tagged and sen-tences are syntactically parsed ?
constitutes thebasis for the annotation.
We first selected thesubcorpora containing business news, newspapertexts and legal texts for annotation since light verbconstructions are considered to frequently occurin these domains (see B. Kova?cs (1999)).
How-ever, we plan to extend the annotation to othersubcorpora as well (e.g.
literary texts) in a laterphase.
Statistical data on the annotated subcor-pora can be seen in Table 1.5.1 Types of light verb constructionsAs Hungarian is an agglutinative language, lightverb constructions may occur in various forms.1112sentences wordsbusiness news 9574 186030newspapers 10210 182172legal texts 9278 220069total 29062 582871Table 1: Number of sentences and words in theannotated subcorporaFor instance, the verbal component may be in-flected for tense, mood, person, number, etc.However, these inflectional differences can be eas-ily resolved by a lemmatizer.
On the other hand,besides the prototypical noun + verb combination,light verb constructions may be present in differ-ent syntactic structures, that is, in participles andinfinitives and they can also undergo nominaliza-tion.
These types are all annotated in the corpustexts since they also occur relatively frequently(see statistical data in 5.3).
All annotated typesare illustrated below.?
Noun + verb combination <verb>bejelente?st teszannouncement-ACC makes?to make an announcement??
Participles <part>?
Present participlee?letbe le?po?
(inte?zkede?s)life-ILL stepping (instruction)?
(an instruction) taking effect??
Past participlecso?dbe ment (ce?g)bankrupt-ILL gone (firm)?
(a firm) that went bankrupt??
Future participlefontolo?ra veendo?
(aja?nlat)consideration-SUB to be taken (offer)?
(an offer) that is to be taken into con-sideration??
Infinitiveforgalomba hoznicirculation-ILL bring-INF?to put into circulation??
Nominalization <nom>be?rbe ve?telrent-ILL taking?hiring?Split light verb constructions, where the nounand the verb are not adjacent, are also annotatedand tagged.
In this way, their identification be-comes possible and the database can be used fortraining an algorithm that automatically recog-nizes (split) light verb constructions.5.2 Annotation principlesCorpus texts contain single annotation, i.e.
oneannotator worked on each text.
Light verb con-structions can be found in between XML tags<FX></FX>.
In order to decide whether a noun+ verb combination is a light verb construction ornot, annotators were suggested to make use of atest battery developed for identifying Hungarianlight verb constructions (Vincze, 2008).The annotation process was carried out manu-ally on the syntactically annotated version of theSzeged Treebank, thus, phrase boundaries werealso taken into consideration when marking lightverb constructions.
Since the outmost boundaryof the nominal component was considered to bepart of the light verb construction, in several casesadjectives and other modifiers of the nominal headare also included in the construction, e.g.
:<FX>nyilva?nos aja?nlatot tesz</FX>public offer-ACC make?to make a public offer?In the case of participles, NP arguments maybe also included (although in English, the sameargument is expressed by a PP):<FX>Ny?
?regyha?za?n tartottu?le?se?n</FX>Ny?
?regyha?za-SUP hold-PPT session-3SGPOSS-SUP?at its session held in Ny?
?regyha?za?Constructions with a nominal component in theaccusative case can be nominalized in two waysin Hungarian, as in:1113szerzo?de?st ko?tcontract-ACC bind?to make a contract?<FX>szerzo?de?sko?te?s</FX>contract+bind-GERUND?making a contract?<FX>ada?sve?teli szerzo?de?sekmegko?te?se</FX>sale contract-PL PREVERB-bind-GERUND-3SGPOSS?making of sales contracts?Both types are annotated in the corpus.Besides the prototypical occurrences of lightverb constructions (i.e.
a bare common noun +verb3), other instances were also annotated in thecorpus.
For instance, the noun might be accompa-nied by an article or a modifier (recall that phraseboundaries were considered during annotation) or?
for word order requirements ?
the noun followsthe verb as in:O?
hozta a jo?
do?nte?st.he bring-PAST-3SG-OBJ the gooddecision-ACC?It was him who made the good deci-sion.
?For the above reasons, a single light verb con-struction manifests in several different forms inthe corpus.
However, each occurrence is manu-ally paired with its prototypical (i.e.
bare noun +verb) form in a separate list, which is available atthe corpus website.5.3 Statistics on corpus dataThe database contains 3826 occurrences of 658light verb constructions altogether in 29062 sen-tences.
Thus, a specific light verb construction3As opposed to other languages where prototypical lightverb constructions consist of a verb + a noun in accusative ora verb + a prepositional phrase (see e.g.
Krenn (2008)), inHungarian, postpositional phrases rarely occur within a lightverb construction.
However, annotators were told to annotatesuch cases as well.occurs 5.8 times in the corpus on average.
How-ever, the participle form ira?nyado?
occurs in 607instances (e.g.
in ira?nyado?
kamat ?prime rate?
)due to the topic of the business news subcorpus,which may distort the percentage rates.
For thisreason, statistical data in Table 2 are shown theoccurrences of ira?nyado?
excluded.verb part nom split totalbusiness 565 270 90 40 965news 58.6% 28% 9.3% 4.1% 25.2%news- 458 192 55 67 772papers 59.3% 24.9% 7.1% 8.7% 20.2%legal 640 504 709 236 2089texts 30.7% 24.1% 33.9% 11.3% 54.6%total 1663 966 854 236 382643.5% 25.2% 22.3% 9% 100%Table 2: Subtypes of light verb constructions inthe corpusIt is revealed that although it is verbal occur-rences that are most frequent, the percentage rateof participles is also relatively high.
The numberof nominalized or split constructions is consider-ably lower (except for the law subcorpus, wheretheir number is quite high), however, those to-gether with participles are responsible for about55% of the data, which indicates the importanceof their being annotated as well.As for the general frequency of light verb con-structions in texts, we compared the number ofverb + argument relations found in the Szeged De-pendency Treebank (Vincze et al, 2010) wherethe argument was a common noun to that of lightverb constructions.
It has turned out that about13% of verb + argument relations consist of lightverb constructions.
This again emphasizes thatthey should be paid attention to, especially in thelegal domain (where this rate is as high as 36.8%).Statistical data are shown in Table 3.V + argument LVCbusiness news 9524 624 (6.6%)newspapers 3637 539 (14.8%)legal texts 2143 889 (36.8%)total 15574 2052 (13.2%)Table 3: Verb + argument relations and light verbconstructionsThe corpus is publicly available for re-1114search and/or educational purposes atwww.inf.u-szeged.hu/rgai/nlp.6 The usability of the corpusAs emphasized earlier, the proper treatment oflight verb constructions is of primary importancein NLP applications.
In order to achieve this,their identification is essential.
The corpus cre-ated can function as the training database for theimplementation of an algorithm capable of recog-nizing light verb constructions, which we plan todevelop in the near future.
In the following, theways machine translation and information extrac-tion can profit from such a corpus and algorithmare shortly presented.6.1 Light verb constructions and machinetranslationWhen translating collocations, translation pro-grams face two main problems.
On the one hand,parts of the collocation do not always occur nextto each other in the sentence (split collocations).In this case, the computer must first recognize thatthe parts of the collocation form one unit (Oraveczet al, 2004), for which the multiword context ofthe given word must be considered.
On the otherhand, the lack (or lower degree) of compositional-ity blocks the possibility of word-by-word trans-lation (Siepmann, 2005; Siepmann, 2006).
How-ever, a (more or less) compositional account oflight verb constructions is required for successfultranslation (Dura and Gawron?ska, 2005).To overcome these problems, a reliable methodis needed to assure that the nominal and verbalparts of the construction be matched.
This re-quires an algorithm that can identify light verbconstructions.
In our corpus, split light verb con-structions are also annotated, thus, it is possible totrain the algorithm to recognize them as well: theproblem of split collocations can be eliminated inthis way.A comprehensive list of light verb construc-tions can enhance the quality of machine transla-tion ?
if such lists are available for both the sourceand the target language.
Annotated corpora (es-pecially and most desirably, parallel corpora) andexplanatory-combinatorial dictionaries4 are possi-4Explanatory combinatorial dictionaries are essential forble sources of such lists.
Since in foreign languageequivalents of light verb constructions, the nomi-nal components are usually literal translations ofeach other (Vincze, 2009), by collating the cor-responding noun entries in these lists the foreignlanguage variant of the given light verb construc-tion can easily be found.
On the other hand, in or-der to improve the building of such lists, we planto annotate light verb constructions in a subcorpusof SzegedParalell, a Hungarian-English manuallyaligned parallel corpus (To?th et al, 2008).6.2 Light verb constructions andinformation extractionInformation extraction (IE) seeks to process largeamounts of unstructured text, in other words, tocollect relevant items of information and to clas-sify them.
Even though humans usually overper-form computers in complex information process-ing tasks, computers also have some obvious ad-vantages due to their capacity of processing andtheir precision in performing well-defined tasks.For several IE applications (e.g.
relationshipextraction) it is essential to identify phrases ina clause and to determine their grammatical role(subject, object, verb) as well.
This can be carriedout by a syntactic parser and is a relatively sim-ple task.
However, the identification of the syn-tactic status of the nominal component is morecomplex in the case of light verb constructionsfor it is a quasi-argument of the verb not to beconfused with other arguments (Alonso Ramos,1998).
Thus, the parser should recognize the spe-cial status of the quasi-argument and treat it in aspecific way as in the following sentences, one ofwhich contains a light verb construction while theother one a verbal counterpart of the construction:Pete made a decision on his future.Pete decided on his future.relation descriptions (up to the present, only fractions of thedictionary have been completed for Russian (Mel?c?uk andZ?olkovskij, 1984) and for French (see Mel?c?uk et al (19841999)), besides, trial entries have been written in Polish, En-glish and German that contain the relations of a certain lexi-cal unit to other lexemes given by means of lexical functions(see e.g.
Mel?c?uk et al (1995)).
These dictionaries indicatelight verb constructions within the entry of the nominal com-ponent.1115In the sentence with the verbal counterpart, theevent of deciding involves two arguments: he andhis future.
In the sentence with the light verb con-struction, the same arguments can be found, how-ever, it is unresolved whether they are the argu-ments of the verb (made) or the nominal compo-nent (decision).
If a precise syntactic analysis isneeded, it is crucial to know which argument be-longs to which governor.
Nevertheless, it is stilldebated if syntactic arguments should be dividedbetween the nominal component and the verb (seeMeyers et al (2004a) on argument sharing) and ifyes, how (Alonso Ramos, 2007).For the purpose of information extraction, sucha detailed analysis is unnecessary and in generalterms, the nominal component can be seen as partof the verb, that is, they form a complex verb sim-ilarly to phrasal or prepositional verbs and thiscomplex verb is considered to be the governorof arguments.
Thus, the following data can beyielded by the IE algorithm: there is an eventof decision-making, Pete is its subject and it isabout his future (and not an event of makingwith the arguments decision, Pete and his fu-ture).
Again, the precise identification of lightverb constructions can highly improve the perfor-mance of parsers in recognizing relations betweenthe complex verb and its arguments.7 ConclusionIn this paper, we have presented the developmentof a corpus of Hungarian light verb constructions.Basic annotation guidelines and statistical datahave also been included.
The annotated corpuscan serve as a training database for implementingan algorithm that aims at identifying light verbconstructions.
Several NLP applications in thefields of e.g.
machine translation and informationextraction may profit from the successful integra-tion of such an algorithm into the system, whichwe plan to develop in the near future.AcknowledgementsThis work was supported in part by the NationalOffice for Research and Technology of the Hun-garian government within the framework of theproject MASZEKER.The authors wish to thank Gyo?rgy Szarvas forhis help in developing the annotation tool andRicha?rd Farkas for his valuable comments on anearlier draft of this paper.ReferencesAlonso Ramos, Margarita.
1998.
Etude se?mantico-syntaxique des constructions a` verbe support.
Ph.D.thesis, Universite?
de Montre?al, Montreal, Canada.Alonso Ramos, Margarita.
2007.
Towards the Syn-thesis of Support Verb Constructions.
In Wanner,Leo, editor, Selected Lexical and Grammatical Is-sues in the Meaning-Text Theory.
In Honour of IgorMel?c?uk, pages 97?138, Amsterdam / Philadelphia.Benjamins.B.
Kova?cs, Ma?ria.
1999.
A funkcio?ige?s szerkezeteka jogi szaknyelvben [Light verb constructions in thelegal terminology].
Magyar Nyelvo?r, 123(4):388?394.Cinkova?, Silvie and Veronika Kola?r?ova?.
2005.
Nounsas Components of Support Verb Constructions in thePrague Dependency Treebank.
In S?imkova?, Ma?ria,editor, Insight into Slovak and Czech Corpus Lin-guistics, pages 113?139.
Veda Bratislava, Slovakia.Csendes, Do?ra, Ja?nos Csirik, Tibor Gyimo?thy, andAndra?s Kocsor.
2005.
The Szeged TreeBank.In Matousek, Va?clav, Pavel Mautner, and Toma?sPavelka, editors, Proceedings of the 8th Interna-tional Conference on Text, Speech and Dialogue,TSD 2005, Lecture Notes in Computer Science,pages 123?132, Berlin / Heidelberg, September.Springer.Diab, Mona and Pravin Bhutada.
2009.
Verb NounConstruction MWE Token Classification.
In Pro-ceedings of the Workshop on Multiword Expres-sions: Identification, Interpretation, Disambigua-tion and Applications, pages 17?22, Singapore, Au-gust.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Dura, Elz?bieta and Barbara Gawron?ska.
2005.
To-wards Automatic Translation of Support Verbs Con-structions: the Case of Polish robic/zrobic andSwedish go?ra.
In Proceedings of the 2nd Language& Technology Conference, pages 450?454, Poznan?,Poland, April.
Wydawnictwo Poznan?skie Sp.
z o.o.Fazly, Afsaneh and Suzanne Stevenson.
2007.
Distin-guishing Subtypes of Multiword Expressions UsingLinguistically-Motivated Statistical Measures.
InProceedings of the Workshop on A Broader Perspec-tive on Multiword Expressions, pages 9?16, Prague,Czech Republic, June.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.1116Gre?goire, Nicole.
2007.
Design and Implemen-tation of a Lexicon of Dutch Multiword Expres-sions.
In Proceedings of the Workshop on A BroaderPerspective on Multiword Expressions, pages 17?24, Prague, Czech Republic, June.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Kaalep, Heiki-Jaan and Kadri Muischnek.
2006.Multi-Word Verbs in a Flective Language: The Caseof Estonian.
In Proceedings of the EACL Workshopon Multi-Word Expressions in a Multilingual Con-texts, pages 57?64, Trento, Italy, April.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Kaalep, Heiki-Jaan and Kadri Muischnek.
2008.Multi-Word Verbs of Estonian: a Database and aCorpus.
In Proceedings of the LREC WorkshopTowards a Shared Task for Multiword Expressions(MWE 2008), pages 23?26, Marrakech, Morocco,June.Krenn, Brigitte.
2008.
Description of Evaluation Re-source ?
German PP-verb data.
In Proceedingsof the LREC Workshop Towards a Shared Task forMultiword Expressions (MWE 2008), pages 7?10,Marrakech, Morocco, June.Langer, Stefan.
2004.
A Linguistic Test Battery forSupport Verb Constructions.
Lingvisticae Investi-gationes, 27(2):171?184.Mel?c?uk, Igor and Aleksander Z?olkovskij.
1984.Explanatory Combinatorial Dictionary of ModernRussian.
Wiener Slawistischer Almanach, Vienna,Austria.Mel?c?uk, Igor, Andre?
Clas, and Alain Polgue`re.
1995.Introduction a` lexicologie explicative et combina-toire.
Duculot, Louvain-la-Neuve, France.Mel?c?uk, Igor, et al 1984?1999.
Dictionnaire ex-plicatif et combinatoire du franc?ais contemporain:Recherches lexico-se?mantiques I?IV.
Presses del?Universite?
de Montre?al, Montreal, Canada.Meyers, Adam, Ruth Reeves, and Catherine Macleod.2004a.
NP-External Arguments: A Study of Argu-ment Sharing in English.
In Tanaka, Takaaki, AlineVillavicencio, Francis Bond, and Anna Korhonen,editors, Second ACL Workshop on Multiword Ex-pressions: Integrating Processing, pages 96?103,Barcelona, Spain, July.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Meyers, Adam, Ruth Reeves, Catherine Macleod,Rachel Szekely, Veronika Zielinska, Brian Young,and Ralph Grishman.
2004b.
The NomBankProject: An Interim Report.
In Meyers, Adam,editor, HLT-NAACL 2004 Workshop: Frontiers inCorpus Annotation, pages 24?31, Boston, Mas-sachusetts, USA, May 2 - May 7.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Oravecz, Csaba, Ka?roly Varasdi, and Viktor Nagy.2004.
To?bbszavas kifejeze?sek sza?m?
?to?ge?peskezele?se [The treatment of multiword expressionsin computational linguistics].
In Alexin, Zolta?nand Do?ra Csendes, editors, MSzNy 2004 ?
II.
Ma-gyar Sza?m?
?to?ge?pes Nyelve?szeti Konferencia, pages141?154, Szeged, Hungary, December.
Universityof Szeged.Sag, Ivan A., Timothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, AnnCopestake, and Dan Flickinger.
2001.
MultiwordExpressions: A Pain in the Neck for NLP.
In Pro-ceedings of the 3rd International Conference on In-telligent Text Processing and Computational Lin-guistics (CICLing-2002, pages 1?15, Mexico City,Mexico.Siepmann, Dirk.
2005.
Collocation, colligation andencoding dictionaries.
Part I: Lexicological Aspects.International Journal of Lexicography, 18(4):409?444.Siepmann, Dirk.
2006.
Collocation, colligationand encoding dictionaries.
Part II: LexicographicalAspects.
International Journal of Lexicography,19(1):1?39.Stevenson, Suzanne, Afsaneh Fazly, and Ryan North.2004.
Statistical Measures of the Semi-Productivityof Light Verb Constructions.
In Tanaka, Takaaki,Aline Villavicencio, Francis Bond, and Anna Ko-rhonen, editors, Second ACL Workshop on Multi-word Expressions: Integrating Processing, pages 1?8, Barcelona, Spain, July.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Tan, Yee Fan, Min-Yen Kan, and Hang Cui.
2006.Extending corpus-based identification of light verbconstructions using a supervised learning frame-work.
In Proceedings of the EACL Workshop onMulti-Word Expressions in a Multilingual Contexts,pages 49?56, Trento, Italy, April.
Association forComputational Linguistics.To?th, Krisztina, Richa?rd Farkas, and Andra?s Kocsor.2008.
Hybrid algorithm for sentence alignment ofHungarian-English parallel corpora.
Acta Cyber-netica, 18(3):463?478.Tro?n, Viktor, Gyo?rgy Gyepesi, Pe?ter Hala?csy, Andra?sKornai, La?szlo?
Ne?meth, and Da?niel Varga.
2005.hunmorph: Open Source Word Analysis.
In Pro-ceedings of the ACL Workshop on Software, pages77?85, Ann Arbor, Michigan, June.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Va?radi, Tama?s.
2006.
Multiword Units in an MTLexicon.
In Proceedings of the EACL Workshop onMulti-Word Expressions in a Multilingual Contexts,pages 73?78, Trento, Italy, April.
Association forComputational Linguistics.1117Vincze, Veronika, Do?ra Szauter, Attila Alma?si, Gyo?rgyMo?ra, Zolta?n Alexin, and Ja?nos Csirik.
2010.Hungarian Dependency Treebank.
In Calzolari,Nicoletta, Khalid Choukri, Bente Maegaard, JosephMariani, Jan Odjik, Stelios Piperidis, Mike Ros-ner, and Daniel Tapias, editors, Proceedings of theSeventh conference on International Language Re-sources and Evaluation (LREC?10), Valletta, Malta,May.
European Language Resources Association(ELRA).Vincze, Veronika.
2008.
A puszta ko?zne?v + ige kom-plexumok sta?tusa?ro?l [On the status of bare commonnoun + verb constructions].
In Sinkovics, Bala?zs,editor, LingDok 7.
Nyelve?sz-doktoranduszok dolgo-zatai, pages 265?283, Szeged, Hungary.
Universityof Szeged.Vincze, Veronika.
2009.
Fo?ne?v + ige szerkezetek aszo?ta?rban [Noun + verb constructions in the dictio-nary].
In Va?radi, Tama?s, editor, III.
AlkalmazottNyelve?szeti Doktorandusz Konferencia, pages 180?188, Budapest.
MTA Nyelvtudoma?nyi Inte?zet.Zarrie?, Sina and Jonas Kuhn.
2009.
Exploit-ing Translational Correspondences for Pattern-Independent MWE Identification.
In Proceedingsof the Workshop on Multiword Expressions: Identi-fication, Interpretation, Disambiguation and Appli-cations, pages 23?30, Singapore, August.
Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics.1118
