Coling 2010: Poster Volume, pages 1283?1291,Beijing, August 2010Urdu and Hindi: Translation and sharing of linguistic resourcesKarthik Visweswariah, Vijil Chenthamarakshan, Nandakishore KambhatlaIBM Research India{v-karthik,vijil.e.c,kambhatla}@in.ibm.comAbstractHindi and Urdu share a common phonol-ogy, morphology and grammar but arewritten in different scripts.
In addition,the vocabularies have also diverged signif-icantly especially in the written form.
Inthis paper we show that we can get rea-sonable quality translations (we estimatedthe Translation Error rate at 18%) betweenthe two languages even in absence of aparallel corpus.
Linguistic resources suchas treebanks, part of speech tagged dataand parallel corpora with English are lim-ited for both these languages.
We use thetranslation system to share linguistic re-sources between the two languages.
Wedemonstrate improvements on three tasksand show: statistical machine translationfrom Urdu to English is improved (0.8in BLEU score) by using a Hindi-Englishparallel corpus, Hindi part of speech tag-ging is improved (upto 6% absolute) byusing an Urdu part of speech corpus anda Hindi-English word aligner is improvedby using a manually word aligned Urdu-English corpus (upto 9% absolute in F-Measure).1 IntroductionHindi and Urdu are official languages of Indiaand Urdu is also the national language of Pak-istan.
Hindi is spoken by around 853 million peo-ple and Urdu by around 164 million people (Maliket al, 2008).
Although native speakers of Hindican comprehend most of spoken Urdu and viceversa, these languages have diverged a bit sinceindependence of India and Pakistan ?
with Hindideriving a lot of words from Sanskrit and Urdufrom Persian.
One clear difference between Hindiand Urdu is the script: Hindi is written in a left-to-right Devanagari script while Urdu is writtenin Nastaliq calligraphy style of the right-to-leftPerso-Arabic script.
Hence, despite the similari-ties, it is impossible for an Urdu speaker to readHindi text and vice versa.
The first problem weaddress is the translation between Hindi and Urduin the absence of a Hindi-Urdu parallel corpus.Though these languages together are spoken byaround a billion people they are not very rich inlinguistic resources.
A treebank for Hindi is stillunder development1 and part of speech taggers forHindi and Urdu are trained on very small amountsof data.
For translation between Hindi/Urdu andEnglish there are no large corpora, the availablecorpora are an order of magnitude smaller thanthose available for European languages or Arabic-English.
Given the lack of linguistic resourcesin each of the languages and the similarities be-tween these languages, we explore whether eachlanguage can benefit from resources available inthe other language.1.1 Urdu-Hindi script conversion/translationSharing resources between Hindi and Urdu re-quires us to be able to convert from one writtenform to the other.
Given that the languages share agood fraction of their spoken vocabularies, the ob-vious approach to convert between the two scriptswould be to transliterate between them.
While thisapproach has recently been attempted (Malik etal., 2009), (Malik et al, 2008) there are two mainproblems with this approach.Challenges in Hindi-Urdu transliteration:Urdu uses diacritical marks that were taken fromthe Arabic script which serve various purposes.Urdu has short and long vowels.
Short vowelsare indicated by placing a diacritic with the con-1https://verbs.colorado.edu/hindiwiki/index.php/Hindi Treebank Data1283Figure 1: An Urdu sentence transliterated andtranslated to Hindisonant that precedes it in the syllable.
The diacrit-ical marks are also used for gemination (doublingof a consonant), which in Hindi is handled using aconjunct form where the consonant is essentiallyrepeated twice.
Yet another function of diacriticalmarks is to mark the absence of a vowel follow-ing a base consonant.
Though diacritical marksare critical for correct pronunciation and some-times even for disambiguation of certain words,they are sparingly used in written material in-tended for native speakers of the language.
Miss-ing diacritical marks create substantial difficultiesfor transliteration systems.
Another difficulty iscreated by the fact that Urdu words cannot havea short vowel at the end of a word, whereas thecorresponding Hindi word can sometimes have ashort vowel.
This cannot be resolved deterministi-cally and results ambiguity in transliteration fromUrdu to Hindi.
A third issue is the presence ofcertain sounds (and their corresponding letters)that have no equivalent in Urdu.
These lettersare approximated in Urdu with phonetic equiva-lents.
Transliteration from Urdu to Hindi suffersin the presence of words with these letters.
Re-cent work on Urdu-Hindi transliteration (Malik etal., 2009) report transliteration word error ratesof 16.4% and 23.1% for Urdu sentences with andwithout diacritical marks respectively.
This prob-lem is illustrated in Figure 1.
The figure shows anUrdu sentence that is transliterated to Hindi usingthe Hindi Urdu Machine Transliteration (HUMT)system 2 and translated using our Statistical Ma-chine Translation System.
The words which arein red are transliteration errors (mainly because ofmissing diacritical marks).Difference in Word Frequency Distribu-tions: Even if we could transliterate perfectly be-tween Urdu and Hindi it might not be desirable to2http://www.puran.info/HUMT/HUMT.aspxdo so from the point of view of human understand-ing or for machine consumption.
This is becauseword frequencies of shared words would be dif-ferent in Hindi and Urdu.
At the extreme, thereare several Urdu words that a fluent Hindi speakerwould not understand and vice versa.
More com-monly, native speakers of Hindi and Urdu woulduse different words to refer to the same concept,even though both these words are technically cor-rect in either of these languages.
In initial experi-ments to quantify this issue on our corpus, whichis mainly from the news domain, we estimatedthat around 28% of the word tokens in Urdu wouldnot be natural in Hindi.
This estimate assumesperfect transliteration, and we estimated the totalerror rate including transliteration at around 55%for the publicly available HUMT system.
In Fig-ure 1, the words that have been underlined havebeen replaced using a different word by our SMTsystem, even though the original word might betechnically correct.
Our preliminary experimentsexploring this issue convinced us that to be ableto convert from Urdu into natural Hindi (and viceversa) we would need to go beyond transliterationto translation to deal with the divergence of thevocabularies in the written forms of the two lan-guages.Importance of Context We would like to pointout that in addition to word for word fidelity,there are more subtle issues in translating fromUrdu-Hindi.
One issue is that words in Hindi aredrawn from different source languages, and withword to word translations, we might end up withphrases that are unnatural.
For example, considerdifferent ways of writing the English phrase Na-tional and News in Hindi.
The word Nationalin Hindi could possibly be written as rashtriya,kaumi or national which have origins in Sanskrit,Persian/Arabic and English respectively.
Simi-larly the word News could be written as samachar,khabaren or news (once again with origins in San-skrit, Persian/Arabic and English).
The naturalways for writing the phrase national news are:rashtriya samachar, kaumi khabaren or nationalnews, any of the other six combinations would bequite rare.Another issue is that corresponding words inHindi and Urdu might have different genders.
An1284example from (Sinha, 2009) are the words vajah(Urdu, feminine) and karan (Hindi, masculine),which would mean that the phrase because of himwould be written as us ke karan in Hindi and as uski vajah se in Urdu.
We note that the ke in Hindiand ki in Urdu are different because of the differ-ence in genders of the word following them.
Thissuggests we would need to go beyond word forword translation and would need to use a higherorder n-gram language model to translate with fi-delity between Hindi and English.We have established the need for going beyondtransliteration, but a key challenge is to achievegood translation accuracy in the absence of aHindi-Urdu parallel corpus.
In Section 3 we de-scribe a multi-pronged approach to translate be-tween Hindi and Urdu in the absence of a parallelcorpus that exploits the similarities between thelanguages.1.2 Applications: sharing linguistic resourcesWe next outline the three tasks for which we con-sider sharing resources between Hindi and Urduwhich serve as a test of the efficacy of our sys-tems.Statistical machine translationIn recent years, there is a lot of interest in Statis-tical Machine Translation (SMT) Systems (Brownet al, 1993).
Modern SMT systems (Koehn et al,2003; Ittycheriah and Roukos, 2007) learn trans-lation models based on large amounts of paral-lel data.
The quality of an SMT system is de-pendent on the amount of parallel data on whichthe system is trained.
Unfortunately, for the pairsUrdu-English and Hindi-English, parallel data arenot available in large quantities, thereby limitingthe quality of these SMT systems.
In this pa-per we show that we can improve the accuracy ofan Urdu?English SMT system by using a Hindi-English parallel corpus.Part of Speech taggingPart of Speech (POS) tagging involves markingthe part of speech of a word based on its defini-tion and surrounding context in a sentence.
Se-quential modeling techniques like HiddenMarkovModels (Rabiner, 1990) and Conditional RandomFields (Lafferty et al, 2001) are commonly usedto build Part of Speech taggers.
These models aretypically trained using a manually tagged part ofspeech corpus.
Manual tagging of data requireslot of human effort and hence large corpora are notreadily available for many languages.
We improvea Hindi POS tagger by using a manually taggedUrdu POS corpus.Supervised bitext alignmentMachine generated word alignments betweenpairs of languages have many applications: build-ing statistical machine translation systems, build-ing dictionaries, projection of syntactic informa-tion to resource poor languages (Yarowsky andNgai, 2001).
Most of the early work on generat-ing word alignments has been unsupervised, e.g.IBM Models 1-5 (Brown et al, 1993), recent im-provements on the IBM Models (Moore, 2004),and the HMM algorithm described in (Vogel et al,1996).
Recently, significant improvements in per-formance of aligners have been achieved by theuse of human annotated word alignments (Itty-cheriah and Roukos, 2007; Lacoste-Julien et al,2006).
We describe a method to transfer man-ual word alignments from Urdu-English to Hindi-English to improve Hindi-English word align-ments.1.3 ContributionsOur main contributions are summarized below:We present a hybrid technique to translate be-tween Hindi and Urdu in the absence of a Hindi-Urdu parallel corpus that significantly improvesupon past efforts to convert between Hindi andUrdu via transliteration.
We validate the efficacyof the translation systems we present, by using itto share linguistic resources between Hindi andUrdu for three important tasks:1.
We improve a part of speech tagger for Hindiusing an Urdu part of speech corpus.2.
We use manual Urdu-English word align-ments to improve the task of Hindi-Englishbitext alignments.3.
We use a Hindi-English parallel corpus toimprove translation from Urdu to English.12852 Related workConverting between the scripts of Hindi and Urduis non-trivial and has been a recent focus (Ma-lik et al, 2008; Malik et al, 2009).
(Malik etal., 2008) uses hand designed rules encoded us-ing finite state transducers to transliterate betweenHindi and Urdu.
As reported in (Malik et al,2009) these hand designed rules achieve accu-racies of only about 50% in the absence of di-acritical marks.
(Malik et al, 2009) improvesUrdu?Urdu transliteration performance to 79%by post processing the output of the transducerwith a statistical language model.
In contrast to(Malik et al, 2009) we use a statistical modelfor character transliteration.
As discussed in Sec-tion 1.1, due to the divergence of vocabulariesin written Hindi and Urdu, transliteration is notsufficient to convert from written Urdu to writtenHindi.
We also use a more flexible model thatallows for more natural translations by allowingUrdu words to translate into Hindi words that donot sound the same.
(Sinha, 2009) builds an English-Urdu machinetranslation system using an English-Hindi ma-chine translation system and a Hindi-Urdu wordmapping table, suitably adjusted for part of speechand gender.
Their system is not statistical, andis largely based on manual creation of a largedatabase of Hindi-Urdu correspondences.
Addi-tionally, as mentioned in the conclusion, their sys-tem cannot be used for direct translation fromHindi to Urdu, since a grammatical analysis ofthe English provides information necessary for theHindi to Urdu mapping.
In contrast to this work,our techniques are largely statistical, require min-imal manual effort and can directly translate be-tween Hindi and Urdu without the associated En-glish.3 Approach to translating between Hindiand UrduAs discussed in Section 1, transliteration betweenHindi and Urdu is not a straightforward task andcurrent efforts result in fairly high error rates.
Wewould like to combine the approaches of translit-eration and translation since our goal is to use thetranslation for sharing linguistic resources ratherthan for direct consumption.We use a fairly standard phrase based transla-tion system to translate between Hindi and Urdu.The key challenge that we overcome is being ableto develop such a system with acceptable accu-racy in the absence of Hindi-Urdu resources (wehave neither a parallel corpus nor a dictionary withsufficient coverage).
In spite of the absence of re-sources, translation between this language pair ismade feasible by the fact that word order is largelymaintained and translation can be done maintain-ing a word to word correspondence.
There aresome exceptions to the monotonicity in the twolanguages.
Consider the English phrase Govern-ment of Sindh which in Urdu would be hukumate sindh in the same word order as in English,while in Hindi it would be sindhi sarkar with theword order flipped (with respect to English andUrdu).
This example also shows that sometimeswe do not have a word for word translation be-tween Hindi and Urdu, the word sindhi in Hindicorresponding to the Urdu words e sindh.
In spiteof these exceptions, Hindi-Urdu translation canlargely be done with the monotonicity assumptionand with the assumption of word to word corre-spondences.
Thus the central issue in translatingbetween Hindi and Urdu is the creation of a wordto word conditional probability table.
We explainour technique assuming we are translating fromUrdu to Hindi.
We take a hybrid approach to cre-ating this table, using three different approaches.The first approach is the pivot language ap-proach (Wu and Wang, 2007), with English as apivot language.
We get probabilities of a Urduword u being generated by a Hindi word h, con-sidering intermediate English phrases e as:Pp(u|h) =?eP (u|e)P (e|h)The translation probabilities P (u|e) and P (e|h)are obtained using an Urdu-English and anEnglish-Hindi parallel corpus respectively.This approach works reasonably well, but suf-fers from a couple of drawbacks.
There are sev-eral common Hindi and Urdu words for which thetranslation is unsatisfactory.
This is because thealignments for these words are not precise, theyoften do not align to any English word, or align to1286an English words in combination with other Hindiwords.
A common example of this is with verbs,consider for example the English sentenceHe workswhich would translate into Hindi/Urdu as:vah kaam karta haiwith word alignments He?
vah, works?
kaamkarta hai .
Automatic aligners often make mis-takes on these multi-word alignments, and thiscreate problems for words like karta and haiwhich often do not have direct equivalents in En-glish.
To deal with this issue we manually build asmall phrase table for the most frequent Hindi andUrdu words by a consulting an online Hindi-Urdu-English dictionary (Platts, 1884).
We also man-ually handle the frequent examples we observedof cases where we need to handle differences intokenization between Hindi and Urdu (e.g keliyewritten as one word in Urdu and as ke liye inHindi).The other issue with the pivot language ap-proach is that for word pairs which are rare inone of the languages,?e P (u|e)P (e|h) can eas-ily work out to zero.
This is exacerbated by align-ment errors for rarer words.
Thus, to strengthenour phrase table especially for infrequent words,we use a transliteration approach to build a phrasetable.
Note that for rare words like names of peo-ple and places, the words in Hindi and Urdu aretransliterations of each other.In light of the issues in transliterating betweenHindi and Urdu (Malik et al, 2008; Malik etal., 2009) we take a statistical approach (Abdul-Jaleel and Larkey, 2003) to building a translitera-tion based phrase table.We assume a generative model for producingUrdu words from Hindi words based on a charac-ter transliteration probability table Pc.
The prob-ability Pt(u|h) of generating a Urdu word u froma Hindi word h is given by:Pt(u|h) =?a?iPc(ui|ha(i))P (ai|ai?1),where a represents the alignment between theHindi and Urdu characters, a(i) is the the indexof the Hindi character that the ith Urdu charac-ter is aligned to, Pc(uc|hc) is the probability ofan Urdu character uc being generated by a Hindicharacter hc and P (ai|ai?1) represents a distor-tion probability.
Since transliteration is mono-tonic and we want to encourage small jumps weset: P (ai|ai?1) = c?
(ai?ai?1) for ai > ai?1 and0 otherwise.
To obtain Pc we use the EM algo-rithm and we can reuse standard machinery thatis used to obtain HMM word alignments in Statis-tical Machine Translation (with the constraint ofMonotone alignments).
To calculate a translitera-tion based phrase table, for each Hindi word h wesearch over a large vocabulary of Urdu words andretain words u for which Pt(u|h) is sufficientlyhigh as possible transliterations of h. We set theprobabilities in the transliteration based phrase ta-ble to be proportional to Pt(u|h).
Finding this ta-ble requires calculating Pt(u|h) for every pair ofwords in the Urdu and Hindi vocabulary, we usethe Forward-Backward algorithm for efficiencyand parallelize the calculations over several ma-chines.The only remaining issue is how we get train-ing data to train our transliteration model.
To ob-tain such training data we use a table of consonantcharacter conversions between Hindi and Urdu asgiven in (Malik et al, 2008).
We look for words inour pivot language based translation table, wherethere are at least three consonants and at least 50%of the consonants are shared.
We observed thatthis yields pairs of words that are transliterationsof one another with high precision.
These wordpairs are used as training data to build our charac-ter transliteration model Pc.Final word translation table is obtained by com-bining our three approaches as follows: If theword is present in our dictionary, we use the trans-lation given in the dictionary and exclude all oth-ers, if not we linearly interpolate between theprobability table we get based on using Englishas a pivot language and probability table we getbased on transliteration.4 Experimental resultsIn this section we report on experiments to eval-uate the quality of our translation method de-scribed in Section 3 and report on the applicationof Hindi?Urdu translation to the sharing of lin-guistic resources between the two languages.1287Algorithm 1 Create Urdu-Hindi Phrase Tablefor all u such that u is very frequent Urdu worddoh?
Hindi word for u from dictionaryPd(u|h)?
1end forU ?
Urdu vocabularyH ?
Hindi vocabulary vocabularyfor all u ?
U , h ?
H doPp(u|h) ?
?e P (u|e)P (e|h) {Create anUrdu-Hindi translation table using English asthe pivot}end forfor all u ?
U , h ?
H such that Pp(u|h) > ?and ConsonantOverlap(u, h) > ?
doAdd (u, h) to training set Tend forPc ?argmaxQ?
(u,h)?T?a?iQ(ui|hai))P (ai|ai?1){Maximize using EM}for all u ?
U , h ?
H doPt(u|h) ?
c?a?iPc(ui|ha(i))P (ai|ai?1){Use Forward-Backward Algorithm}end forfor all u ?
U , h ?
H doif Pd(u|h)?
1 thenPfinal(u|h)?
1elsePfinal(u|h)?
?pPp(u|h) + ?tPt(u|h)end ifend for4.1 Evaluation of Hindi-Urdu translationWe built a Hindi-Urdu transliteration system asexplained in Section 3.
For building a pivotlanguage based translation table we used 70ksentences from the NIST MT-08 corpus train-ing corpus for Urdu-English.
For Hindi-Englishwe used an internal corpus of 230k sentences.We built our statistical transliteration model onroughly 3k word pairs that we obtained as de-scribed in Section 3.
For Urdu?Hindi translation,we used a five gram language model built froma crawl of archives from Hindi news web sites(the corpus size was about 60 million words).
ForHindi?Urdu translation we use the MT-08 Urducorpus (about 1.5 million words) to build a trigramLM.We evaluated the translation system in translat-ing from Urdu to Hindi.
We asked an annotator toevaluate 100 sentences ( 2700 words), by markingan error on a word if it was a wrong translation orunnatural in Hindi.
We compared our translationsystem against the Hindi Urdu Machine Translit-eration (HUMT) system3.
We found an error rateof 18% for our system as against 46% for theHUMT system.4.2 Word alignmentsIn this section we describe experiments at im-proving a Hindi-English word aligner using handalignments for an Urdu-English corpus.
For theUrdu-English corpus we use a manually wordaligned corpus of roughly 10k sentences, whilefor the Hindi-English corpus we had roughly 3ksentences out of which we set aside 300 sentences( 5300 words) for a test set.
In addition to these(relatively) small supervised corpora we also usea sentence parallel Hindi-English corpus (withoutmanual word alignments) of roughly 250k sen-tences.For word alignments we use the MaximumEntropy aligner described in (Ittycheriah andRoukos, 2005) that is trained using hand alignedtraining data.
We first translate the Urdu sentencesin the Urdu-English word aligned corpus to Hindi,and then transfer the alignments by simply replac-ing the alignment links to a Urdu word by linksto the corresponding decoded Hindi word.
Theabove procedure covers bulk of the cases sinceUrdu-Hindi translation is largely a word to wordtranslation.
The special case of a phrase of multi-ple Urdu words decoded to multiple Hindi wordsis handled as follows: we align each of the wordsin the Hindi phrase to the union of the sets ofEnglish words that each word in the Urdu phrasealigns to.
Once we convert the Urdu-English man-ual alignments to an additional corpus we buildtwo Hindi-English alignment models, one on theoriginal corpus, the other on the (Urdu?Hindi)-English corpus.
The MaxEnt aligner (Ittycheriahand Roukos, 2005) models the probability of a3http://www.puran.info/HUMT/HUMT.aspx1288nTrain Hindi data + Urdu5 60.8 69.850 64.1 70.5800 71.4 73.02800 75.1 75.7Table 1: Word alignment F-Measure as a func-tion of the number of manually aligned Hindi-English sentences used for training.
The third col-umn shows improvements obtained by adding 10kUrdu-English word alignments sentences.particular set of links in the alignment L given thesource sentence S and the target sentence T as:P (L|S, T ) = ?Mi=1 p(li|tM1 , sK1 , li?11 ).
Let us de-note by Ph and Pu the alignment models trainedon the Hindi-English and the (Urdu?Hindi)-English corpora respectively.
We combine thesemodels log-linearly to obtain our final model foralignment:P (L|S, T ) = P?h (L|S, T )P 1?
?u (L|S, T ).To find the most likely alignment we use the samealgorithm as in (Ittycheriah and Roukos, 2005)since the structure of the model is unchanged.We report on the performance (Table 1) of abaseline Hindi-English word aligner built withvarying amounts of Hindi-English manually wordaligned training data compared against an alignerthat combines in a model trained on the 10k(Urdu?Hindi)-English sentences.
We observelarge gains with small amounts of labelled Hindi-English alignment data, and even when we have2800 sentences of Hindi-English data we see again in performance adding in the Urdu data.We note that the MaxEnt aligner we use (Itty-cheriah and Roukos, 2005) defaults to (roughly)doing an HMM alignment using a word trans-lation matrix obtained via unsupervised training.Thus the aligners reported on in Table 1 use alarge amount of unsupervised data in addition tothe small amounts of labelled data mentioned inthe Table.4.3 POS taggingUnlike English for which there is an abundanceof POS training data for Hindi and Urdu data isquite limited.
For our experiments, we use thenum.
words f(wi, ti), g(ti?1, ti) + h(tui , ti)5k 76.5 82.510k 81.7 84.720k 84.5 86.747k 90.6 91.0Table 2: POS tagging accuracy as a function ofthe amount of Hindi POS tagged data used tobuild the model.
The third column indicates theuse of the Urdu data via a feature type.CRULP corpus (Hussain, 2008) for Urdu and acorpus from IITB (Dalal et al, 2007) for Hindi.The CRULP POS corpus has 150k words anduses a tagset of size 46 to tag the corpus.
TheIITB corpus has 50k words and uses a tagset ofsize 26.
We set a side a test set of size 5k wordsfrom the IITB corpus.
For part of speech taggingwe use CRFs (Lafferty et al, 2001) with two typesof features, f(ti, wi) and g(ti, ti?1).
With thesmall amounts of training data we have, addingadditional feature templates degraded the perfor-mance.In our POS tagging experiments we considerusing the Urdu corpus to help POS tagging inHindi.
We first translate all of the CRULP Urdudata to Hindi.
We cannot simply add in this datato the training data because of differences in thetagsets used in the data sets for the two languages.In order to make use of the additional Urdu POStagged data (translated to Hindi), we build a sep-arate POS tagger on this data, and use predictionsfrom this model as a feature in training the HindiPOS tagger.
We use these predictions via a fea-ture template h(ti, tui ) where tui denotes the tagassigned to the ith word by the POS tagger builtfrom the CRULP Urdu data set translated intoHindi.We present results in Table 2 with varyingamounts of Hindi data used for training, in eachcase we present results with and without use ofthe Urdu resources.
We see a small gain evenwhen we use all of the available Hindi trainingdata and as expected we see larger gains whensmaller amounts of Hindi data are used.We analyzed the type of errors and the er-ror reduction when using the Urdu data for thecase where we used only 5k words of Hindi data.1289We find that the two frequent error types thatwere greatly reduced were noun being taggedas main verb (reduction of 65% relative) andmain verb tagged as auxiliary verb (reduction of71%).
Reduction in confusion between nouns andmain verbs is expected since these are open wordclasses that can most benefit from additional data.This also causes the reduction in errors of tag-ging main verbs as auxiliary verbs, since in Hindi,verbs are multi word groups with a main verb fol-lowed by one or more auxiliary verbs.
Reductionof error rate in most of the other error types wereclose to the overall error rate reduction.4.4 Sharing parallel corpora for machinetranslationWe experimented with using our internal Hindi-English parallel corpus ( 230k) sentences to obtainbetter translation for Urdu-English.
The Urdu-English corpus we use is the NIST MT-08 trainingdata set ( 70k sentences).
We use the Direct Trans-lation Model 2 (DTM) described in (Ittycheriahand Roukos, 2007) for all our translation experi-ments.We build our baseline Urdu?English systemusing the NIST MT-08 training data.
In trainingour DTM model we use HMM alignments, align-ments with the MaxEnt aligner, and hand align-ments for 10k sentences (the hand alignmentswere used to train the MaxEnt aligner).We translated the Hindi in our Hindi-Englishcorpus to Urdu, creating an additional Urdu-English corpus.
We then use a MaxEnt alignerto align the Urdu-English words in this corpus.Since we expect this corpus to be relatively noisydue to incorrect translation from Urdu to Hindi wedo not include this corpus while generating HMMalignments.
We add the synthetic Urdu-Englishdata with MaxEnt alignments to our baseline dataand train a DTM model.
Results comparing to thebaseline are given Table 3, which shows an im-provement of 0.8 in BLEU score over the baselinesystem by using data from the Hindi-English cor-pus.This improvement is not due to unknownwords being covered (the vocabulary covered isthe same).
Also note that in the bridge languageapproach we cannot get alernative translationsCorpus MT08 EvalUrdu 23.1+Hindi 23.9Table 3: Improvement in Urdu-English machinetranslation using Hindi-English data .for single words that were not already present inthe Urdu-English phrase table.
Thus, we believethat the improvement is due to longer phrasesbeing seen more often in training.
An exampleimproved translation is shown below:Ref: just as long as its there they feel safeBaseline: as long as this they just think there are safeImproved: just as long as they are there they feel safe5 ConclusionsIn this paper, we showed that we can translate be-tween Hindi and English without a parallel corpusand improve upon previous efforts at transliterat-ing between the two languages.
We also showedthat Hindi-Urdu translation can be useful to thesharing of linguistic resources between the twolanguages.
We believe this approach to sharinglinguistic resources will be of immense value es-pecially with resources like treebanks which re-quire a large effort to develop.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Salim Roukos and Abe Ittycheriah fordiscussions that helped guide our efforts.References[AbdulJaleel and Larkey2003] AbdulJaleel, Nasreenand Leah S. Larkey.
2003.
Statistical transliterationfor english-arabic cross language informationretrieval.
In CIKM.
[Brown et al1993] Brown, Peter F., Vincent J.DellaPietra, Stephen A. Della Pietra, and Robert.
L. Mer-cer.
1993.
The mathematics of statistical machinetranslation: Parameter estimation.
ComputationalLinguistics, 19:263?311.
[Dalal et al2007] Dalal, Aniket, Kumara Nagaraj, UmaSawant, Sandeep Shelke, and Pushpak Bhat-tacharyya.
2007.
Building feature rich pos taggerfor morphologically rich languages.
In Proceed-ings of the Fifth International Conference on Nat-ural Language Processing, Hyderabad, India, Jan-uary.1290[Hussain2008] Hussain, Sarmad.
2008.
Resources forurdu language processing.
In Proceedings of the 6thworkshop on Asian Language Resources.
[Ittycheriah and Roukos2005] Ittycheriah, Abrahamand Salim Roukos.
2005.
A maximum entropyword aligner for arabic-english machine translation.In HLT/EMNLP.
[Ittycheriah and Roukos2007] Ittycheriah, Abrahamand Salim Roukos.
2007.
Direct translation model2.
In Sidner, Candace L., Tanja Schultz, MatthewStone, and ChengXiang Zhai, editors, HLT-NAACL,pages 57?64.
The Association for ComputationalLinguistics.
[Koehn et al2003] Koehn, Philipp, Franz Josef Och,and Daniel Marcu.
2003.
Statistical phrase-basedtranslation.
In NAACL ?03: Proceedings of the 2003Conference of the North American Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics on Hu-man Language Technology, pages 48?54, Morris-town, NJ, USA.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.
[Lacoste-Julien et al2006] Lacoste-Julien, Simon,Benjamin Taskar, Dan Klein, and Michael I. Jordan.2006.
Word alignment via quadratic assignment.
InHLT-NAACL.
[Lafferty et al2001] Lafferty, J., A. McCallum, , andF.
Pereira.
2001.
Conditional random fields: Prob-abilistic models for segmenting and labeling se-quence data.
In International Conference on Ma-chine Learning.
[Malik et al2008] Malik, M. G. Abbas, ChristianBoitet, and Pushpak Bhattacharyya.
2008.
Hindiurdu machine transliteration using finite-state trans-ducers.
In Proceedings of the 22nd InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics (Coling2008), pages 537?544, Manchester, UK, August.Coling 2008 Organizing Committee.
[Malik et al2009] Malik, Abbas, Laurent Besacier,Christian Boitet, and Pushpak Bhattacharyya.
2009.A hybrid model for urdu hindi transliteration.
InProceedings of the 2009 Named Entities Workshop:Shared Task on Transliteration (NEWS 2009), pages177?185, Suntec, Singapore, August.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.
[Moore2004] Moore, Robert C. 2004.
Improvingibm word alignment model 1.
In Proceedings ofthe 42nd Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics (ACL?04), Main Volume, pages518?525, Barcelona, Spain, July.
[Platts1884] Platts, John T. 1884.
A dictionary ofUrdu, classical Hindi and English.
W. H. Allen andCo.
[Rabiner1990] Rabiner, Lawrence R. 1990.
A tutorialon hidden markov models and selected applicationsin speech recognition.
pages 267?296.
[Sinha2009] Sinha, R. Mahesh K. 2009.
Developingenglish-urdu machine translation via hindi.
In ThirdWorkshop on Computational Approaches to Arabic-Script-based Languages.
[Vogel et al1996] Vogel, Stephan, Hermann Ney, andChristoph Tillmann.
1996.
Hmm-based word align-ment in statistical translation.
In Proceedings ofthe 16th conference on Computational linguistics,pages 836?841, Morristown, NJ, USA.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.
[Wu and Wang2007] Wu, Hua and Haifeng Wang.2007.
Pivot language approach for phrase-basedstatistical machine translation.
In ACL.
[Yarowsky and Ngai2001] Yarowsky, David and GraceNgai.
2001.
Inducing multilingual pos taggers andnp bracketers via robust projection across alignedcorpora.
In NAACL.1291
