Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2010), pages 725?733,Beijing, August 2010TimeML Events Recognition and Classification:Learning CRF Models with Semantic RolesHector Llorens, Estela Saquete, Borja Navarro-ColoradoNatural Language Processing GroupUniversity of Alicante{hllorens,stela,borja}@dlsi.ua.esAbstractThis paper analyzes the contribution of se-mantic roles to TimeML event recognitionand classification.
For that purpose, anapproach using conditional random fieldswith a variety of morphosyntactic featuresplus semantic roles features is developedand evaluated.
Our system achieves anF1 of 81.4% in recognition and a 64.2%in classification.
We demonstrate that theapplication of semantic roles improves theperformance of the presented system, es-pecially for nominal events.1 IntroductionEvent recognition and classification has beenpointed out to be very important to improve com-plex natural language processing (NLP) applica-tions such as automatic summarization (Daniel etal., 2003) and question answering (QA) (Puste-jovsky, 2002).
Natural language (NL) texts oftendescribe sequences of events in a time line.
In thecontext of summarization, extracting such eventsmay aid in obtaining better summaries when thesehave to be focused on specific happenings.
Inthe same manner, the access to such informationis crucial for QA systems attempting to addressquestions about events.The analysis of events as well as the classifica-tion of the different forms they adopt in NL text isnot a new issue (Vendler, 1967).
It relates not onlyto linguistics but different scientific areas such asphilosophy, psychology, etc.In NLP, different definitions of event can befound regarding the target application.On the one hand, in topic detection and track-ing (Allan, 2002), event is defined as an instanceof a topic identified at document level describingsomething that happen (e.g., ?wars?).
The aim ofthis task is to cluster documents on the same topic,that is to say, the same event.On the other hand, information extraction (IE)provides finer granularity event definitions.
IEproposes standard schemes to annotate the indi-vidual events within the scope of a document.STAG scheme (2000) was aimed to identify eventsin news and their relationship with points in a tem-poral line.
More recently, TimeML (Pustejovskyet al, 2003a) presented a rich specification for an-notating events in NL text extending the featuresof the previous one.This paper is focused on the TimeML view ofevents.
TimeML defines events as situations thathappen or occur, or elements describing statesor circumstances in which something obtains orholds the truth.
These events are generally ex-pressed by tensed or untensed verbs, nominaliza-tions, adjectives, predicative clauses or preposi-tional phrases.
TimeML guidelines define sevenclasses of events:?
Reporting.
Action of a person or organization declar-ing or narrating an event (e.g., ?say?)?
Perception.
Physical perception of another event (e.g.,?see?, ?hear?)?
Aspectual.
Aspectual predication of another event(e.g., ?start?, ?continue?)?
I Action.
Intensional action (e.g., ?try?)?
I State.
Intensional state (e.g., ?feel?, ?hope?)?
State.
Circumstance in which something holds thetruth (e.g., ?war?, ?in danger?)?
Occurrence.
Events that describe things that happen(e.g., ?erupt?, ?arrive?
)The following sentence shows an example of anoccurrence event and a state event.It?s <EVENT class="OCCURRENCE">turning</EVENT>out to be another <EVENT class="STATE">bad</EVENT>financial week.725The automatic annotation of events has beenaddressed with different data-driven approaches.Current approaches are mainly based on mor-phosyntactic information.
Our hypothesis is thatsemantic roles, as higher language level analysisinformation, may be useful as additional featureto improve the performance of such approaches.Within this setting, the main objective of thispaper is to analyze (1) the contribution of seman-tic roles, as additional feature, and (2) the influ-ence of conditional random fields (CRFs), as ma-chine learning (ML) technique, in the events auto-matic recognition and classification task.This paper is structured as follows.
Firstly,related work in the task is reviewed in Section2.
The next section provides a detailed descrip-tion of our proposal to address event recognitionand classification.
After that, Section 4 includesan evaluation of the proposal, and a comparativeanalysis of the results.
Finally, conclusions aredrawn in Section 5.2 Related WorkThere is only one corpus available annotated withTimeML events: TimeBank (Pustejovsky et al,2003b).
Hence, all the approaches regardingTimeML events extraction have been evaluatedusing this corpus.EVITA system (Saur??
et al, 2005) recognizesevents by combining linguistic and statistical tech-niques.
The main features used to manuallyencode event recognition rules are the follow-ing: part-of-speech (PoS) tagging, lemmatizing,chunking, lexical lookup and contextual pars-ing.
Furthermore, WordNet information com-bined with Bayesian learned disambiguation wasused to identify nominal events.
EVITA obtained74.03% precision, 87.31% recall, and 80.12%F?=1 in event recognition over TimeBank.Boguraev and Ando (2005) present an evalu-ation on automatic TimeML events annotation.They set out the task as a classification prob-lem and used a robust risk minimization (RRM)classifier to solve it.
The F?=1 results obtainedby a 5-fold cross validation over TimeBank were78.6% for recognition and 61.3% for classifica-tion.
Moreover, they evaluated the impact of ap-plying word-profiling techniques over their ap-proach to exploit unannotated data.
Using this ad-ditional information, the F?=1 results improved to80.3% and 64.0%.
In this evaluation, neither pre-cision nor recall were given.STEP (Bethard and Martin, 2006) is a systemfor TimeML event recognition and classification.This approach uses a rich set of textual, morpho-logical, dependency andWordNet hypernymy fea-tures to build a Support Vector Machine (SVM)model.
The model was trained using 9/10 of theTimeBank.
The test, carried out using the remain-ing 1/10 of the corpus, obtained a 82.0% preci-sion, 70.6% recall and 75.9% F?=1 for recognitionand a 66.7% precision, 51.2% recall and 57.9%F?=1 for classification.Finally, March and Baldwin (2008) present anevaluation on event recognition using a multi-class classifier (BSVM).
The main features usedto train the classifier are word and PoS contextwindow, stop words removal and feature general-ization through words grouping (numbers, namedentities, etc.).
The result for the best feature com-bination in a 10-fold cross validation over Time-Bank was 76.4% F?=1.It is worth mentioning that there are two ver-sions of the TimeBank corpus, 1.1 and 1.2.
Thelatest version is the current gold standard.
Bothversions consist of the same documents1, mainlynews articles and transcribed broadcast news fromdifferent domains.
EVITA is the only referencewhich used TimeBank 1.2 while the rest of re-viewed references used TimeBank 1.1.3 Our proposal: semantic rolesenhancing a CRF modelIn this section, the motivation for our proposal,and our specific approach are presented.3.1 MotivationThe next two subsections describe the mainfeature (semantic roles) and the ML algorithm(CRFs) we selected to address event recognitionand classification; and the reasons why we thinkthey could be useful in that task.1Except 3 documents removed in TimeBank 1.27263.1.1 Semantic rolesSemantic role labeling (SRL) has achieved im-portant results in the last years (Gildea and Juraf-sky, 2002).
For each predicate in a sentence, se-mantic roles identify all constituents, determiningtheir arguments (agent, patient, etc.)
and their ad-juncts (locative, temporal, etc.).
Currently, thereexist different role sets aimed to cover opposed re-quirements.
They range from more specific, suchas FrameNet (Baker et al, 1998), to more generallike PropBank (Palmer et al, 2005).
Figure 1 il-lustrates a semantic role labeled sentence.Figure 1: Semantic roles exampleMany research efforts into the application of se-mantic roles demonstrated that this information isuseful for different NLP purposes (Melli et al,2006).
Focusing on TimeML, semantic roles havebeen applied to temporal expressions recognition(Llorens et al, 2009), and temporal links classi-fication (Hage`ge and Tannier, 2007).
However,they have not been used to recognize and classifyTimeML events.Semantic roles provide structural relations ofthe predicates in which events may participate.Beyond syntactic relations expressed by means ofthe different types of phrases, semantic roles givefurther information about semantic relations be-tween the arguments of a predicate.
Therefore,as richer information, roles may better distinguishtokens to be candidate events.
In addition, differ-ent semantic role settings may represent specificevent classes.Example 1 shows four sentences annotated withPropBank semantic roles (in square brackets) inwhich the noun ?control?
participates.
In the sen-tences 1 and 2, ?control?
does not represent anevent, while in the sentences 3 and 4, it repre-sents an state event.
It can be seen that the noun?control?, when it is contained by A1 role it mayrepresent an event.
However, it is not an eventwhen contained by A0 or AM-MNR roles.
Theanalysis may also take into account the governingverb.
In the example, we could specify that ?con-trol?
represents an event when contained by A1role of ?seek?
and ?obtain?
verbs; and the oppo-site for the A0 role of ?emerge?
and the AM-MNRof ?had?.
(1) 1.
?
[Control procedures A0] will emerge?2.
?
[Iraq A0] had [thousands of Americans A1] [underits control AM-MNR]?3.
?
[Crane Co. A0] may obtain [control of Milton RoyCorp.
A1]?4.
?
[Pattison?s A0] decided to seek [control A1]?Our hypothesis is that semantic roles, as ad-ditional information, may help in the recogni-tion and classification of events.
The informationabout the role of a token and the verb it dependson, or the set of roles of the sentence, could beuseful for determining whether a token or a se-quence of tokens is an event or not.
Due to thefact that roles represent high level information inNL text, they are more independent from word to-kens.
Hence, roles may aid in learning more gen-eral models that could improve the results of ap-proaches focused on lower level information.3.1.2 CRF probabilistic modelConditional Random Fields is a popular and ef-ficient ML technique for supervised sequence la-beling (Lafferty et al, 2001).
CRFs are undirectedgraphical models, a special case of conditionally-trained finite state machines.
A key advantage ofCRFs is their flexibility to include a wide varietyof arbitrary, non-independent features of the input.We see the task set out in this paper as a se-quence labeling problem.
Assume X is a randomvariable over data sequences to be labeled, and Yis a random variable over the corresponding labelsequences (hidden), being all Y components (Yi)members of a finite label alphabet ?.
X mightrange over NL sentences and Y range over eventannotations of those sentences, with ?
the set ofpossible event IOB22 labels.
The following ex-ample illustrates the event recognition problem.
(2) X Ywas ?another ?
B-EVENTbad ?
?
= I-EVENTweek ?
O2IOB2 format: (B)egin, (I)nside, and (O)utside727The variables X and Y are jointly distributedover both label and observation sequences.
How-ever, unlike Hidden Markov Models (generative)in which p(X,Y ), CRFs (discriminative) con-struct a conditional model from paired observa-tion and label sequences: p(Y |X).
Graphically,CRFs are represented by undirected graphs, G =(V,E) such that Y = (Yv), v  V , so that Y isindexed by the vertices of G. Then (X,Y ) is aconditional random field if Yv variables obey theMarkov property with respect to the graph whenconditioned on X:P (Yv|X,Yw, v 6= w) = P (Yv|X,Yw, v ?
w),where v ?
w means that Yv and Yw are connectedneighbors in G.To extend the problem to event classification,the alphabet ?
must be extended with the eventclasses (state, aspectual, etc.
).CRFs have been successfully applied to manysequence labeling tasks (Sha and Pereira, 2003;McCallum and Li, 2003).From our point of view, the task addressed inthis paper is well suited for this ML technique.Events may depend on structural properties of NLsentences.
Not only the word sequence, but mor-phological, syntactic and semantic information isrelated with the event structure (Tenny and Puste-jovsky, 2000).For example, sequences of verbs may representi action+occurrence or aspectual+occurrenceevents (see Example 3).
(3) ?The president will <EVENT class="i action"> try</EVENT> to <EVENT class="occurrence"> assist</EVENT> to the <EVENT class="occurrence">conference </EVENT>?
?Saddam will <EVENT class="aspectual"> begin</EVENT> <EVENT class="occurrence"> withdrawing</EVENT> troops from Iranian territory on Friday?In addition, for instance, many state event in-stances are represented by ?to be?
plus a variablequality (see Example 4).
(4) ?It is <EVENT class="occurrence"> turning</EVENT> out to be another <EVENT class="state">bad </EVENT> financial week.
?Given this analysis, our hypothesis is that CRFswill be useful in the recognition of events in whichthe sequential and structural properties are rele-vant.3.2 Approach descriptionThis paper proposes CRFs as learning methodto infer an event recognition and classificationmodel.
Our system includes CRF++ toolkit3 fortraining and testing our approach.
The learningprocess was done using CRF-L2 algorithm andhyper-parameter C=1.The definition of the features is crucial for thearchitecture of the system.
The features used inour approach are grouped in two feature sets.
Onthe one hand, general features, which comprisemorphosyntactic and ontological information.
Onthe other hand, semantic roles features, which arethe main focus of this paper.The general features used to train our CRFmodel are described regarding each languageanalysis level.?
Morphological: The lemma and PoS con-text, in a 5-window (-2,+2), was employed.This basic linguistic feature showed good re-sults in different NLP tasks, as well as inevent recognition and classification (Marchand Baldwin, 2008).
Tokenization, PoS andlemmatization were obtained using TreeTag-ger (Schmid, 1994).?
Syntactic: Different events are contained inparticular types of phrases and syntactic de-pendencies.
This feature tries to tackle thisby considering syntactic information.
Char-niak parser (Charniak and Johnson, 2005)was used to obtain the syntactic tree.?
Lexical semantics: WordNet (Fellbaum,1998) top ontology classes have been widelyused to represent word meaning at ontologi-cal level, and demonstrated its worth in manytasks.
We obtained the four top classes foreach word.The specific semantic roles features used to en-hance the training framework of the CRF modelwere developed considering PropBank role set.PropBank was applied in our system due to thehigh coverage it offers in contrast to FrameNet.In order to get PropBank semantic roles, the CCG3http://crfpp.sourceforge.net/728SRL tool (Punyakanok et al, 2004) was used forlabeling the corpus.?
Role: For each token, we considered the roleregarding the verb the token depends on.
Se-mantic roles information may be useful fordistinguish particular lemmas that are eventsonly when appearing under a precise role.?
Governing verb: The verb to which the cur-rent token holds a particular role.
This maydistinguish tokens appearing under the influ-ence of different verbs.?
Role+verb combination: The previous twofeatures were combined to capture the rela-tion between them.
This introduces new clas-sification information by distinguishing rolesdepending on different verbs.
The impor-tance of this falls especially on the numberedroles of PropBank (A0, A1, ...) holding dif-ferent meanings when depending on differentverbs.?
Role configuration: This consists of the setof roles depending on the verb the token de-pends on.
This may be particularly usefulfor distinguish different sentence settings andthus, whether a token denotes an event in aparticular sentence type.The system consists of two main processes.Firstly, given TimeML annotated text, it obtainsthe defined features plus the IOB2 tags of the an-notated events.
Then, using this data the systemlearns (trains) a model for event recognition anda model for event classification.
Secondly, givenplain text, it automatically gets the defined fea-tures using the described tools.
With this data,the system applies the learned models to recog-nize and classify TimeML events.4 EvaluationIn this section, firstly, the corpus, criteria and mea-sures are defined.
Secondly, the results obtainedby our approach are presented.
After that, the con-tribution of our approach is measured through dif-ferent experiments: (1) general contribution, (2)semantic roles contribution, and (3) CRFs contri-bution.
And finally, our approach is compared tothe state of the art systems.4.1 Corpus, criteria and measuresFor the evaluation, the TimeBank 1.2 corpus(7881 events) was used without modification.
Allthe results reported in this evaluation were ob-tained using a 5-fold cross validation.
The n-foldtrain-test sets were built sorting the corpus filesalphabetically and then sequentially select eachset regarding the documents size.
It is importantto highlight the latter because if the n-folds weremade regarding the number of documents, the setshad not been homogeneous due to the differencesin TimeBank document sizes.Only annotations matching the exact event spanwere considered as correct in recognition andclassification, requiring also the class matching inthe second case.The following measures were used to score theevaluated approaches.?
Precision correct annotationstotal approach annotations?
Recall correct annotationtotal corpus annotations?
F?=1 2 ?
precision ?
recallprecision + recall4.2 Our approach resultsTable 1 shows the results obtained by our ap-proach for both recognition and classification ofevents.
The last column (BF) indicates the bestF?=1 results obtained in the individual folds.Precision Recall F?=1 BFRecognition 83.43 79.54 81.40 82.43Classification 68.84 60.15 64.20 69.68Table 1: Our approach (CRF+Roles) resultsThe results show a high F?=1 score in bothrecognition and classification, showing a goodbalance between precision and recall.
This indi-cates that our approach is appropriate to addressthis task.Focusing on classification task, Table 2 showsthe detailed scores for each event class.Looking at the specific class results, reportingobtained the best results.
This is due to the factthat 80% of reporting events are represented bylemmas ?say?
and ?report?
with PoS ?VBD?
and?VBZ?.
Occurrence, perception, aspectual andi state obtained classification results over 50%.729Class (instances) Precision Recall F?=1Reporting (1021) 91.90 89.18 90.51Perception (48) 65.93 66.83 66.37Aspectual (258) 81.35 47.00 59.57I Action (673) 51.40 29.30 37.32I State (582) 68.44 43.70 53.34State (1107) 50.01 24.84 33.19Occurrence (4192) 66.73 72.07 69.29Table 2: CRF+Roles 5-fold detailed resultsAlthough perception and aspectual are quite re-stricted to some lemmas, they obtained results be-low reporting.
This is due to the fact that Time-Bank contains very few examples of these classes.I action and state show poorer results.
In thecase of the former, this is because some non-intensional verbs (e.g., ?look?)
appear in the cor-pus as i action under certain conditions, for exam-ple, when there is modality or these verbs appearin conditional sentences.
This suggests the neces-sity of incorporating a word sense disambiguation(WSD) technique.
Our approach did not take intoaccount this information and thus the results arelower for this event class.
In the case of state, thereasons for the low performance are the richnessof this event class by means of lemmas, PoS, andphrases.Finally, Table 3 shows the results of our ap-proach by word class.Precision Recall F?=1Verb 91.56 92.15 91.33Recognition Noun 72.67 48.26 58.42Adj.
66.78 38.09 48.35Verb 73.86 74.21 73.51Classification Noun 62.73 41.33 49.53Adj.
55.69 31.12 40.41Table 3: CRF+Roles 5-fold word class resultsIt may be seen that the best results in bothrecognition and classification are obtained in verbevents, followed by noun and adjective.4.3 Contribution analysisThis subsection details the contribution of each as-pect of our approach through three comparativeexperiments.First experiment: general contributionThis experiment measures the general contribu-tion of our approach by comparing its results witha baseline.
TimeBank was analyzed to find a ba-sic general rule to annotate events.
The events aremainly denoted by verbs, pertaining to occurrenceclass.
Hence, we propose a baseline that annotatesall verbs as occurrence events.
Table 4 shows re-sults obtained by this baseline for both recognitionand classification of events.Prec.
Recall F?=1Our approach Recog.
83.43 79.54 81.40Class.
68.84 60.15 64.20Baseline Recog.
72.50 65.20 68.60Class.
46.01 53.19 49.34Table 4: Our approach vs Baseline resultsGiven the simplicity of the baseline, the resultsobtained are quite high.
However, our approachF?=1 significantly improves baseline by 19% forrecognition and 30% for classification.Second experiment: roles contributionThe main objective of this paper is to determinethe impact of semantic roles in this task.
To quan-tify it, a non-roles version of our approach wasevaluated.
This version only uses the general fea-tures described in section 3.
Table 5 shows theresults obtained.Precision Recall F?=1Our approach Recog.
83.43 79.54 81.40Class.
68.84 60.15 64.20Non-roles Recog.
82.96 74.81 78.67Class.
67.53 54.80 60.50Table 5: Our approach vs Non-roles resultsComparing these results with the ones obtainedby our full featured approach, the applicationof roles improved especially the recall.
Specifi-cally, recall improved by 6% and 10% for recog-nition and classification respectively.
The mainimprovement was achieved by state and occur-rence classes (60% of the total improvement), es-pecially, nominal events of that classes that con-centrate around the 70% of the total contribution.To illustrate corpus examples that have beenimproved by roles, Example 5 shows two sen-tences containing state events that were correctlytagged by the roles approach and missed by the730non-roles.
In the examples, the TimeML eventsannotation and below the semantic roles annota-tion is reported.
(5) ?There are still few buyers and the mood is <EVENTclass=STATE>gloomy</EVENT>??
[There A0] are [still AM-TMP] [few buyers A1] and [themood A0] is [gloomy AM-MNR]?
?Security is now <EVENT>better</EVENT>??
[Security A0] is [now AM-TMP] [better AM-MNR]?In these cases, AM-MNR role information lead toa correct state event recognition.Third experiment: CRFs contributionIn order to measure the CRFs contribution to thistask, an extra experiment was carried out.
Thisconsisted of comparing, under the same setting,CRFs with a popular learning technique: supportvector machines (SVM).
As in Bethard and Mar-tin (2006), YamCha4 software was used (parame-ters: C=1 and polynomial degree=2).Table 6 shows the results obtained by the SVM-based approach in recognition and Table 7 reportsthe improvement (CRFs over SVM) distributionin the different word classes.Precision Recall F?=1Our approach (CRF) 83.43 79.54 81.40SVM 80.00 75.10 77.40Table 6: Our approach (CRF) vs SVM resultsVerb Noun Adj.
Adv.
Prep.General 22% 71% 5% 1% 1%Table 7: CRF improvement distribution amongthe word classesThese results verify that CRF improves SVMF?=1 by 5% in this task.
Furthermore, especiallynoun events take advantage of using CRF.Finally, Figure 2 illustrates the results of our ap-proach over the described experiments.4.4 Comparison with the state of the artMost systems found in the literature are data-driven approaches using morphosyntactic fea-tures.
SVM based approaches (Bethard and Mar-tin, 2006; March and Baldwin, 2008) achieved,4http://chasen.org/?taku/software/YamCha/Figure 2: F?=1 Resultsapproximately, 76% and 58% F?=1 in eventrecognition and classification respectively.
Bogu-raev and Ando (2005) used a robust risk mini-mization classifier to address this task and ob-tained 78.6% and 61% (without exploiting unan-notated data).
These results are very similar to theones obtained by our non-roles approach.
Thissuggests that using, apart from morphosyntacticfeatures, additional features based on semanticroles could improve the approaches.EVITA system (Saur??
et al, 2005) combineslinguistic and statistical techniques.
On the onehand, it consists of a set of manually encoded rulesbased on morphosyntactic information.
On theother hand, it includes a Bayesian learned disam-biguation module to identify nominal events.
Thelater was trained and tested using the whole cor-pus, therefore, the results could be inflated by thisfact.
For that reason, Bethard and Martin (2006)presented an EVITA implementation (Sim-Evita)to compare the results.
Sim-Evita obtains an 73%and 51% F?=1 in event recognition and classifica-tion respectively.
These results suggest that data-driven improve rule-based approaches.Only STEP evaluation showed detailed classifi-cation results.
We agree that state events are themost complex and heterogeneous ones.
Focus-ing on such events, our F?=1 results (33%) im-prove Bethard?s (25%) by 32%.
Regarding theresults obtained for each word class.
Bethard?sresults presented good performance on classify-ing verb events (71%), but lower results in nounevents (34%).
Our approach results for nounevents (49%) improve theirs by 44%.
This sug-gests that the application of semantic roles en-ables our approach on making more general pre-dictions.
In this manner, our system may recog-731nize unseen nominal event instances as long asthey share, with the seen instances, some semanticroles features.5 Conclusions and Further WorkThis paper presented an approach for the recogni-tion and classification of TimeML events consist-ing of a CRF model learned using semantic rolesas main feature.
In addition to morphosyntacticfeatures, the model was enhanced including ex-tra semantic information, semantic role labeling,used for other applications with satisfactory re-sults, but never employed before for this purpose.Our proposal was evaluated using the gold stan-dard corpus, TimeBank 1.2, and the results ob-tained were analyzed and compared to measurethe impact of both semantic roles and CRFs in thedescribed task.The obtained F?=1 results demonstrated thatsemantic roles are useful to recognize (81.43%)and classify (64.20%) TimeML events, improv-ing the presented baseline by 19% for recogni-tion and 30% for classification.
Specifically, Se-mantic roles employed as additional feature im-proved the recall of the non-roles version by 6%and 10% for recognition and classification respec-tively.
This indicates that roles features led tomore general models capable of better annotat-ing unseen instances.
The roles contribution wasmore significant in state and occurrence classes ofnoun events, concentrating around the 70% of theimprovement.Furthermore, it was verified that CRFs achievehigher results than models learned using otherML techniques such as SVM (5% improvement),contributing especially to nominal events.
Thisdemonstrated that CRF models are appropriate toface the task.Finally, to the extent our results are compara-ble to state of the art evaluations, ours outper-form the F?=1 scores in both recognition and clas-sification.
Especially, our approach showed bet-ter performance than related works in state (32%improvement) and nominal events (44% improve-ment).
Hence, the extension of the current ap-proaches with semantic roles features could bene-fit their performance.The main difficulties found in the task ad-dressed in this paper are related to i action andstate events.
In the former, we detected thatmodality and the word senses are important andmust be treated to distinguish such events.
Inthe later, although they were improved by ourapproach, state events are still the most com-plex class of events due to their richness in con-trast to the reduced size of the training data.
Weagree with related literature that event classifi-cation results are still below other tasks perfor-mance, which indicates that this task is inherentlycomplex and more training data may lead to sig-nificant improvements.As further work we propose, firstly, improv-ing the i action results by taking into account themodality considering the AM-MOD role, and theword senses using a WSD technique.
Secondly,the application of FrameNet role set (finer granu-larity) to determine which kind of roles are betterto improve the current event annotation systems.AcknowledgmentsThis paper has been supported by the SpanishGovernment, projects TIN-2006-15265-C06-01, TIN-2009-13391-C04-01 and PROMETEO/2009/119, whereHector Llorens is funded (BES-2007-16256).ReferencesAllan, James.
2002.
Topic Detection and Tracking:Event-Based Information Organization.
KluwerAcademic Publishers, Norwell, MA, USA.Baker, Collin F., Charles J. Fillmore, and John B.Lowe.
1998.
The Berkeley FrameNet Project.
InCOLING-ACL, pages 86?90.Bethard, Steven and James H. Martin.
2006.
Identi-fication of event mentions and their semantic class.In EMNLP: Proceedings of the Conference on Em-pirical Methods in NLP, pages 146?154.
ACL.Boguraev, Branimir and Rie Kubota Ando.
2005.
Ef-fective Use of TimeBank for TimeML Analysis.
InAnnotating, Extracting and Reasoning about Timeand Events 05151.Charniak, Eugene and Mark Johnson.
2005.
Coarse-to-fine n-best parsing and maxent discriminativereranking.
In 43rd Annual Meeting of the ACL.Daniel, Naomi, Dragomir Radev, and Timothy Allison.2003.
Sub-event based multi-document summariza-732tion.
In HLT-NAACL Text summarization workshop,pages 9?16.
ACL.Fellbaum, Christiane.
1998.
WordNet: An ElectronicLexical Database (Language, Speech, and Commu-nication).
MIT Press.Gildea, Daniel and Daniel Jurafsky.
2002.
Automaticlabeling of semantic roles.
Computational Linguis-tics, 28(3):245?288.Hage`ge, Caroline and Xavier Tannier.
2007.
XRCE-T: XIP temporal module for TempEval campaign.In TempEval (SemEval), pages 492?495, Prague,Czech Republic.
ACL.Lafferty, John D., Andrew McCallum, and FernandoC.
N. Pereira.
2001.
Conditional random fields:Probabilistic models for segmenting and labelingsequence data.
In Proceedings of the 18th ICML,pages 282?289.
Morgan Kaufmann.Llorens, Hector, Borja Navarro, and Estela Saquete.2009.
Using Semantic Networks to Identify Tem-poral Expressions from Semantic Roles.
In VIRANLP, pages 219?224.March, Olivia and Timothy Baldwin.
2008.
Auto-matic event reference identification.
In ALTA 2008,pages 79?87, Australia.McCallum, Andrew and Wei Li.
2003.
Early resultsfor named entity recognition with conditional ran-dom fields, feature induction and web-enhanced lex-icons.
In HLT-NAACL, pages 188?191.Melli, G., Y. Liu Z. Shi, Y. Wang, and F. Popowich.2006.
Description of SQUASH, the SFU QuestionAnswering Summary Handler for the DUC-2006Summarization Task.
In DUC.Palmer, Martha, Daniel Gildea, and Paul Kingsbury.2005.
The Proposition Bank: An Annotated Corpusof Semantic Roles.
Computational Linguistics, 31.Punyakanok, Vasin, Dan Roth, W. Yih, D. Zimak, andY.
Tu.
2004.
Semantic role labeling via generalizedinference over classifiers.
InHLT-NAACL (CoNLL),pages 130?133.
ACL.Pustejovsky, James, Jose?
M. Castan?o, Robert Ingria,Roser Saur?
?, Robert Gaizauskas, Andrea Setzer, andGraham Katz.
2003a.
TimeML: Robust Specifica-tion of Event and Temporal Expressions in Text.
InIWCS-5.Pustejovsky, James, Patrik Hanks, Roser Saur?
?, A. See,Robert Gaizauskas, Andrea Setzer, Dragomir R.Radev, Beth Sundheim, David Day, Lisa Ferro, andM.
Lazo.
2003b.
The TIMEBANK Corpus.
In Cor-pus Linguistics, pages 647?656.Pustejovsky, James.
2002.
TERQAS: Time and EventRecognition for Question Answering Systems.
InARDA Workshop.Saur?
?, Roser, Robert Knippen, Marc Verhagen, andJames Pustejovsky.
2005.
Evita: A robust eventrecognizer for qa systems.
In HLT/EMNLP.
ACL.Schmid, Helmut.
1994.
Probabilistic part-of-speechtagging using decision trees.
In Proceedings of theInternational Conference on New Methods in Lan-guage Processing, pages 44?49.Setzer, Andrea and Robert Gaizauskas.
2000.Annotating Events and Temporal Information inNewswire Texts.
In LREC 2000, pages 1287?1294.Sha, Fei and Fernando C. N. Pereira.
2003.
Shal-low parsing with conditional random fields.
InHLT-NAACL.Tenny, Carol and James Pustejovsky.
2000.
Events asGrammatical Objects.
The Converging Perspectivesof Lexical Semantics and Syntax.
CSLI.Vendler, Zeno, 1967.
Linguistics and philosophy,chapter Verbs and times, pages 97?121.
CornellUniversity Press, Ithaca, NY.733
