Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2010), pages 1?9,Beijing, August 2010Testing SDRT?s Right FrontierStergos D. Afantenos and Nicholas AsherInstitut de recherche en informatique de Toulouse (IRIT),CNRS, Universit?
Paul Sabatier{stergos.afantenos, nicholas.asher}@irit.frAbstractThe Right Frontier Constraint (RFC), as aconstraint on the attachment of new con-stituents to an existing discourse struc-ture, has important implications for the in-terpretation of anaphoric elements in dis-course and for Machine Learning (ML) ap-proaches to learning discourse structures.In this paper we provide strong empiricalsupport for SDRT?s version of RFC.
Theanalysis of about 100 doubly annotateddocuments by five different naive annota-tors shows that SDRT?s RFC is respectedabout 95% of the time.
The qualitativeanalysis of presumed violations that wehave performed shows that they are eitherclick-errors or structural misconceptions.1 IntroductionA cognitively plausible way to view the construc-tion of a discourse structure for a text is an incre-mental one.
Interpreters integrate discourse con-stituent n into the antecedently constructed dis-course structure D for constituents 1 to n ?
1 bylinking n to some constituent in D with a dis-course relation.
SDRT?s Right Frontier Constraint(RFC) (Asher, 1993; Asher and Lascarides, 2003)says that a new constituent n cannot attach to anarbitrary node in D. Instead it must attach to ei-ther the last node entered into the graph or one ofthe nodes that dominate this last node.
Assumingthat the last node is usually found on the right ofthe structure, this means that the nodes availablefor attachment occur on the right frontier (RF) ofthe discourse graph or SDRS.Researchers working in different theoreticalparadigms have adopted some form of this con-straint.
Polanyi (1985; 1988) originally pro-posed the RFC as a constraint on antecedents toanaphoric pronouns.
SDRT generalizes this to acondition on all anaphoric elements.
As the at-tachment of new information to a contextuallygiven discourse graph in SDRT involves the reso-lution of an anaphoric dependency, RFC furnishesa constraint on the attachment problem.
(Webber,1988; Mann and Thompson, 1987; 1988) havealso adopted versions of this constraint.
But thereare important differences.
While SDRT and RSTboth take RFC as a constraint on all discourse at-tachments (in DLTAG, in contrast, anaphoric dis-course particles are not limited to finding an an-tecedent on the RF), SDRT?s notion of RF is sub-stantially different from that of RST?s or Polanyi?s,because SDRT?s notion of a RF depends on a 2-dimensional discourse graph built from coordinat-ing and subordinating discourse relations.
Defin-ing RFC with respect to SDRT?s 2-dimensionalgraphs allows the RF to contain discourse con-stituents that do not include the last constituententered into the graph (in contrast to RST).
SDRTalso allows for multiple attachments of a con-stituent to the RFC.SDRT?s RFC has important implications for theinterpretation of various types of anaphoric ele-ments: tense (Lascarides and Asher, 1993), ellip-sis (Hardt et al, 2001; Hardt and Romero, 2004;Asher, 2007), as well as pronouns referring to in-dividuals and abstract entities (Asher, 1993; Asherand Lascarides, 2003).
The RFC, we believe, willalso benefit ML approaches to learning discoursestructures, as a constraint limiting the search spacefor possible discourse attachments.
Despite itsimportance, SDRT?s RFC has never been empiri-cally validated, however.
We present evidence inthis paper providing strong empirical support forSDRT?s version of the constraint.
We have cho-sen to study SDRT?s notion of a RF, because ofSDRT?s greater expressive power over RST (Dan-los, 2008), the greater generality of SDRT?s defi-1nition of RFC, and because of SDRT?s greater the-oretical reliance on the constraint for making se-mantic predictions.
SDRT also makes theoreticallyclear why the RFC should apply to discourse re-lation attachment, since it treats discourse struc-ture construction as a dynamic process in whichall discourse relations are essentially anaphors.The analysis of about 100 doubly annotated docu-ments by five different naive annotators shows thatthis constraint, as defined in SDRT, is respectedabout 95% of the time.
The qualitative analysis ofthe presumed violations that we have performedshows that they are either click-errors or structuralmisconceptions by the annotators.Below, we give a formal definition of SDRT?sRFC; section 3 explains our annotation procedure.Details of the statistical analysis we have per-formed are given in section 4, and a qualitativeanalysis is provided in section 5.
Finally, sec-tion 6 presents the implications of the empiricalstudy for ML techniques for the extraction of dis-course structures while sections 7 and 8 presentthe related work and conclusions.2 The Right Frontier Constraint in SDRTIn SDRT, a discourse structure or SDRS (Seg-mented Discourse Representation Structure) is atuple < A,F , LAST >, where A is the set oflabels representing the discourse constituents ofthe structure, LAST ?
A the last introduced labeland F a function which assigns each member ofA a well-formed formula of the SDRS language(defined (Asher and Lascarides, 2003, p 138)).SDRSs correspond to ?
expressions with a contin-uation style semantics.
SDRT distinguishes coor-dinating and subordinating discourse relations us-ing a variety of linguistic tests (Asher and Vieu,2005),1 and isolates structural relations (Paralleland Contrast) based on their semantics.The RF is the set of available attachment points1The subordinating relations of SDRT are currently: Elab-oration (a relation defined in terms of the main eventualitiesof the related constituents), Entity-Elaboration (E-Elab(a,b)iff b says more about an entity mentioned in a that is not themain eventuality of a) Comment, Flashback (the reverse ofNarration), Background, Goal (intentional explanation), Ex-planation, and Attribution.
The coordinating relations are:Narration, Contrast, Result, Parallel, Continuation, Alterna-tion, and Conditional, all defined in Asher and Lascarides(2003).to which a new utterance can be attached.
Whatthis set includes depends on the discourse relationused to make the attachment.
Here is the defini-tion from (Asher and Lascarides, 2003, p 148).Suppose that a constituent ?
is to be attached to aconstituent in the SDRS with a discourse relationother than Parallel or Contrast.
Then the avail-able attachment points for ?
are:1.
The label ?
= LAST;2.
Any label ?
such that:(a) i-outscopes(?, ?)
(i.e.
R(?, ?)
orR(?, ?)
is a conjunct in F(?)
forsome R and some ?
); or(b) R(?, ?)
is a conjunct in F(?)
forsome label ?, where R is a subordi-nating discourse relation.We gloss this as ?
< ?.3.
Transitive Closure:Any label ?
that dominates ?
through asequence of labels ?1, ?2, .
.
.
?n such that?
< ?1 < ?2 < .
.
.
?n < ?We can represent an SDRS as a graph G, whosenodes are the labels of the SDRSs constituents andwhose typed arcs represent the relations betweenthem.
The nodes available for attachment of a newelement ?
in G are the last introduced node LASTand any other node dominating LAST, where thenotion of domination should be understood as thetransitive closure over the arrows given by sub-ordinating relations or those holding between acomplex segment and its parts.
Subordinating re-lations like Elaboration extend the vertical dimen-sion of the graph, whereas coordinating relationslike Narration expand the structure horizontally.The graph of every SDRS has a unique top labelfor the whole structure or formula; however, theremay be multiple < paths defined within a givenSDRS, allowing for multiple parents, in the ter-minology of (Wolf and Gibson, 2006).
Further-more, SDRT allows for multiple arcs between con-stituents and attachments to multiple constituentson the RFC, making for a very rich structure.SDRT?s RFC is restricted to non-structural rela-tions, because structural relations postulate a par-tial isomorphism from the discourse structure ofthe second constituent to the discourse structureof the first, which provides its own attachmentpossibilities for subconstituents of the two relatedstructures (Asher, 1993).
Sometimes such paral-lelism or contrast, also known as discourse subor-dination (Asher, 1993), can be enforced in a long2distance way by repeating the same wording in thetwo constituents.RFC has the name it does because the segmentsthat belong on this set (the ?s in the above def-inition) are typically nodes on a discourse graphwhich are geometrically placed at the RF of thegraph.
Consider the following example embel-lished from Asher and Lascarides (2003):(1) (?1) John had a great evening last night.
(?2) He firsthad a great meal at Michel Sarran.
(?3) He ateprofiterolles de foie gras, (?4) which is a specialty ofthe chef.
(?5) He had the lobster, (?6) which he hadbeen dreaming about for weeks.
(?7) He then wentout to a several swank bars.The graph of the SDRS for 1 looks like this:(2) ?1Elaboration???2ElaborationNarration?7???
?3E-elabNarration?5Background?4 ?6where ??
and ???
represent complex segments.Given that the last introduced utterance is repre-sented by the node ?7, the set of nodes that areon the RF are ?7 (LAST), ??
(the complex segmentthat includes ?7) and ?1 (connected via a subordi-nating relation to ??).
All those nodes are geomet-rically placed at the RF of the graph.SDRT?s notion of a RF is more general thanRST?s or DLTAG?s.
First, SDRSs can have com-plex constituents with multiple elements linkedby coordinate relations that serve as argumentsto other relations, thus permitting instances ofshared structure that are difficult to capture in apure tree notation (Lee et al, 2008).
In addi-tion, in RST the RF picks out the adjacent con-stituents, LAST and complex segments includingLAST.
Contrary to RST, SDRT, as it uses 2-dimensional graphs, predicts that an available at-tachment point for ?7 is the non local and non ad-jacent ?2, which is distinct from the complex con-stituent consisting of ?2 to ?6.2 This differenceis crucial to the interpretation of the Narration:2The 2-dimensionality of SDRSs also allows us to rep-Narration claims a sequence of two events; mak-ing the complex constituent (essentially a sub-SDRS) an argument of Narration, as RST does,makes it difficult to recover such an interpreta-tion.
Danlos?s (2008) interpretation of the Nu-clearity Principle provides an interpretation of theNarration([2-4],5) that is equivalent to the SDRSgraph above.3 But even an optional NuclearlityPrinciple interpretation won?t help with discoursestructures like (2) where the backgrounding ma-terial in ?4 and the commentary in ?6 do not andcannot figure as part of the Elaboration for seman-tic reasons.
In our corpus described below, over20% of the attachments were non adjacent; i.e.
theattachment point for the new material did not in-clude LAST.A further difference between SDRT and othertheories is that, as SDRT?s RFC is applied re-cursively over complex segments within a givenSDRS, many more attachment points are availablein SDRT.
E.g., consider the SDRS for this example,adapted from (Wolf and Gibson, 2006):(3) (?1) Mary wanted garlic and thyme.
(?2) She alsoneeded basil.
(?3) The recipe called for them.
(?4)The basil would be hard to come by this time of year.?
Explanation?1 Parallel ?2E-elab?3?4Because ?
is the complex segment consistingof ?1 and ?2, attachment to ?
with a subordinat-ing discourse relation permits attachment ?
?s openconstituents as well.43 Annotated CorpusOur corpus comes from the discourse structure an-notation project ANNODIS5 which represents anon going effort to build a discourse graph bankfor French texts with the two-fold goal of test-ing various theoretical proposals about discourseresent many examples with Elaboration that involve cross-ing dependencies in Wolf and Gibson?s (2006) representationwithout violation of the RFC.3Baldridge et al (2007), however, show that the Nuclear-ity Principle does not always hold.4This part of the RFC was not used in (Asher and Las-carides, 2003).5http://w3.erss.univ-tlse2.fr/annodis3structure and providing a seed corpus for learningdiscourse structures using ML techniques.
ANN-ODIS?s annotation manual provides detailed in-structions about the segmentation of a text intoElementary Discourse Units (EDUs).
EDUs corre-spond often to clauses but are also introduced byframe adverbials,6 appositive elements, correla-tive constructions ([the more you work,] [the moreyou earn]), interjections and discourse markerswithin coordinated VPs [John denied the charges][but then later admitted his guilt].
Appositive ele-ments often introduce embedded EDUs; e.g., [JimPowers, [President of the University of Texas atAustin], resigned today.
], which makes our seg-mentation more fine-grained than Wolf and Gib-son?s (2006) or annotation schemes for RST or thePDTB.The manual also details the meaning of dis-course relations but says nothing about the struc-tural postulates of SDRT.
For example, there is nomention of the RFC in the manual and very littleabout hierarchical structure.
Subjects were toldto put whatever discourse relations from our listabove between constituents they felt were appro-priate.
They were also told that they could groupconstituents together whenever they felt that as awhole they jointly formed the term of a discourserelation.
We purposely avoided making the man-ual too restrictive, because one of our goals wasto examine how well SDRT predicts the discoursestructure of subjects who have little knowledge ofdiscourse theories.In total 5 subjects with little to no knowledgeof discourse theories that use RFC participatedin the annotation campaign.
Three were under-graduate linguistics students and two were grad-uate linguistics students studying different areas.The 3 undergraduates benefitted from a completedand revised annotation manual.
The two gradu-ate students did their annotations while the anno-tation manual was undergoing revisions.
All inall, our annotators doubly annotated about 100French newspaper texts and Wikipedia articles.Subjects first segmented each text into EDUs, andthen they were paired off and compared their seg-6Frame adverbials are sentence initial adverbial phrasesthat can either be temporal, spatial or ?topical" (in Chem-istry).mentations, resolving conflicts on their own or viaa supervisor.
The annotation of the discourse re-lations was performed by each subject workingin isolation.
ANNODIS provided a new state ofthe art tool, GLOZZ, for discourse annotation forthe three undergraduates.
With GLOZZ annotatorscould isolate sections of text corresponding to sev-eral EDUs, and insert relations between selectedconstituents using the mouse.
Though it did por-tray relations selected as lines between parts of thetext, GLOZZ did not provide a discourse graph orSDRS as part of its graphical interface.
The rep-resentation often yielded a dense number of linesbetween segments that annotators and evaluatorsfound hard to read.
The inadequate interline spac-ing in GLOZZ also contributed to certain numberof click errors that we detail below in the paper.The statistics on the number of documents, EDUsand relations provided by each annotator are in ta-ble 1.annotator # Docs # EDUs # Relationsundergrad 1 27 1342 1216undergrad 2 31 1378 1302undergrad 3 31 1376 1173grad 1 47 1387 1390grad 2 48 1314 1321Table 1: Statistics on documents, EDUs and Rela-tions.4 Experiments and ResultsUsing ANNODIS?s annotated corpus, we checkedfor all EDUs ?, whether ?
was attached to a con-stituent in the SDRS built from the previous EDUsin a way that violated the RFC.
Given a discourseas a series of EDUs ?1, ?2, .
.
.
, ?n, we constructedfor each ?i the corresponding sub-graph and cal-culated the set of nodes on the RF of this sub-graph.
We then checked whether the EDU ?i+1was attached to a node that was found in this set.We also checked whether any newly created com-plex segment was attached to a node on the RF ofthis sub-graph.4.1 Calculating the Nodes at the RFTo calculate the nodes on the RF, we slightly ex-tended the annotated graphs, in order to add im-4plied relations left out by the annotators.7Disconnected Graphs While checking the RFCfor the attachment of a node n, the SDRS graphat this point might consist of 2 or more disjointsubgraphs which get connected together at a laterpoint.
Because we did not want to decide whichway these graphs should be connected, we defineda right frontier for each one using its own LAST.We then calculated the RF for each one of themand set the set of available nodes to be those inthe union of the RFs of the disjoint subgraphs.
Ifthe subgraphs were not connected at the end ofthe incremental process in a way that conformedto RFC, we counted this as a violation.
Annotatorsdid not always provide us with a connected graph.Postponed Decisions SDRT allows for the at-tachment not only of EDUs but also of subgraphsto an available node in the contextually givenSDRS.
For instance, in the following example, theintended meaning is given by the graph in whichthe Contrast is between the first label and the com-plex constituent composed of the disjunction of ?2and ?3.
(?1) Bill doesn?t like sports.
(?2) But Sam does.
(?3) Or John does.
?1 Contrast ??
?2 Altern.
?3Naive annotators attached subgraphs instead ofEDUs to the RF with some regularity (around 2%).This means that an EDU ?i+1 could be attached toa node that was not present in the subgraph pro-duced by ?1, .
.
.
, ?i.
There were two main rea-sons for this: (1) ?i+1 came from a syntacticallyfronted clause, a parenthetical or apposition in asentence whose main clause produced ?i+2 and?i+1 was attached to ?i+2; (2) ?i+1 was attachedto a complex segment [.
.
.
, ?i+1, .
.
.
, ?i+k, .
.
.
]which was not yet introduced in the subgraph.Since the nodes to which ?i+1 is attached insuch cases are not present in the graph, by def-inition they are not in the RF and they could becounted as violations.
Nonetheless, if the nodes7In similar work on TimeML annotations, Setzer et al(2003; Muller and Raymonet (2005) add implied relations toannotated, temporal graphs.which connect nodes like ?i+1 eventually link upto the incrementally built SDRS in the right way,?i+1 might eventually end up linked to somethingon the RF.
For this reason, we postponed the de-cision on nodes like ?i+1 until the nodes to whichthey are attached were explicitly introduced in theSDRS.The Coherence of Complex Segments In anSDRS, several EDUs may combine to form a com-plex segment ?
that serves as a term for a dis-course relation R. The interpretation of the SDRSimplies that all of ?
?s constituents contribute tothe rhetorical function specified by R. This im-plies that the coordinating relation Continuationholds between the EDUs inside ?, unless there issome other relation between them that is incom-patible with Continuation (like a subordinatingrelation).
Continuations are often used in SDRT(Asher, 1993; Asher and Lascarides, 2003).
Dur-ing the annotation procedure, our subjects did notalways explicitly link the EDUs within a complexsegment.
In order to enforce the coherence ofthose complex segments we added Continuationrelations between the constituents of a complexsegment unless there was already another path be-tween those constituents.Expanding Continuations Consider the fol-lowing discourse:(4) [John, [who owns a chain of restaurants]?2 , [and is adirector of a local charity organization,]?3 wanted tosell his yacht.
]?1 [He couldn?t afford it anymore.
]?4Annotators sometimes produced the followingSDRT graph for the first three EDUs of this dis-course:(5) ?1E-Elab?2 Continuation ?3In this case the only open node is ?3 due tothe coordinating relation Continuation.
Nonethe-less, ?4 should be attached to ?1, without vi-olating the RFC.
Indeed, SDRT?s definition ofthe Continuation relation enforces that if we haveR(?1, ?2) and Continuation(?2, ?3) then we ac-tually have the complex segment [?2, ?3] withR(?1, [?2, ?3]).
So there is in fact a missing com-plex segment in (5).
The proper SDRS graph of (4)is:5(6) ?1E-Elab?
?2 Continuation ?3which makes ?1 an available attachment site for?4.
Such implied constituents have been added tothe SDRS graphs.Factoring Related to the operation of Ex-pansion, SDRT?s definition of Continuation andvarious subordinating relations also requiresthat if we have R(a, [?1, ?2, .
.
.
, ?n]) where[?1, ?2, .
.
.
, ?n] is a complex segment with?1, .
.
.
?n linked by Continuation and R is Elabo-ration, Entity-Elaboration, Frame, Attribution, orCommentary, then we also have R(a, ?i) for eachi.
We added these relations when they were miss-ing.4.2 ResultsWith the operations just described, we added sev-eral inferred relations to the graph.
We then cal-culated statistics concerning the percentage of at-tachments for which the RFC is respected usingthe following formula:RFCEDU =# EDUs attached to the RF# EDUs in totalAs we explained, an EDU can be attached to anSDRT graph directly by itself or indirectly as partof a bigger complex segment.
In order to calcu-late the nominator we determine first whether anEDU directly attaches to the graph?s RF, and if thatfails we determine whether it is part of a largercomplex segment which is attached to the graph?sRF.
The results obtained are shown in the first twocolumns of table 2.
The RFC is respected by atleast some attachment decision 95% of the time?i.e., 95% of the EDUs get attached to another nodethat is found on the RF.
The breakdown across ourannotators is given in table 2.SDRT allows for multiple attachments of anEDU to various nodes in an SDRS; e.g.
while anEDU may be attached via one relation to a nodeon the RF, it may be attached to another node offthe RF.
To take account of all the attachments for agiven EDU, we need another way of measuring thepercentage of attachments that respects the RFC.So we counted the ways each EDU is related to anode in the SDRS for the previous text and thendivided the number of attachment decisions thatrespect the RFC by the total number of attachmentdecisions?i.e.
:RFCr =# RF attachment decisions# Total attachment decisions.annotator RFCEDU RFCrundergrad 1 98.57% 91.28%undergrad 2 98.12% 94.39%undergrad 3 91.93% 89.17%grad 1 94.38% 86.54%grad 2 92.68% 83.57%Mean for all annotators 95.24% 88.91%Mean for 3 undergrad 96.17% 91.71%Table 2: The % with which each annotator has re-spected SDRT?s RFC using the EDU and attachmentdecision measures.The third column of table 2 shows that havinga stable annotation manual and GLOZZ improvedthe results across our two annotator populations,even though the annotation manual did not sayanything about RFC or about the structure of thediscourse graphs.
Moreover, the distribution of vi-olations of the RFC follows a power law and only4.56% of the documents contained more than 5 vi-olations.
This is strong evidence that there is littlepropagation of violations.5 Analysis of Presumed ViolationsAlthough 95% of EDUs attach to nodes on theRF of an SDRT graph, 5% of EDUs don?t.
SDRTexperts performed a qualitative analysis of someof these presumed violations.
In many cases, theexperts judged that the presumed violations weredue to click-errors: sometimes the annotators sim-ply clicked on something that did not translate intoa segment.
Sometimes, the experts judged that theannotators picked the wrong segment to attach anew segment or the wrong type of relation duringthe construction of the SDRT graph.
For example,in the graph that follows the relation between seg-ments 74 and 75 is not a Comment but an Entity-Elaboration.6As expected, there were also ?structural?
er-rors, arising from a lack or a misuse of complexsegments.
Here is a typical example (translatedfrom the original French):[Around her,]_74 [we should mention JosephRacaille]_75 [responsible for the magnificent ar-rangements,]_76 [Christophe Dupouy]_77 [reg-ular associate of Jean-Louis Murat responsi-ble for mixing,]_78 [without forgetting her twoguardian angels:]_79 [her agent Olivier Gluz-man]_80 [who signed after a love at firstsight,]_81 [and her husband Mokhtar]_82 [whohas taken care of the family]_83Here is the annotated structure up to EDU 78:74Comment75E-elab Cont77E-elab76 78 (LAST)Note that the attachment of 77 to 75 is non-localand non-adjacent.
The annotator then attachesEDU 79 to 75 which is blocked from the RF due tothe Continuation coordinating relation.
By nothaving created a complex segment due the enu-meration that includes EDUs 75 to 78, the annota-tor had no option but to violate the RF.
Here is theproper SDRT graph for segments 74 to 79 (wherethe attachment of 79 to 74 is also both non-localand non-adjacent):74ElabElab?
7975E-elabContinuation77E-elab76 78In this case, before the introduction of EDU 79,EDU 78 is LAST and by consequence 77, ?
and 74are on the RF.
Attaching 79 to 74 is thus legiti-mate.We also found more interesting examples ofright frontier violations.
One annotator produceda graph for a story which is about the attacks of9/11/2001 and is too long to quote here.
A sim-plified graph of the first part of the story is shownbelow.
EDU 4 elaborates on the main event of thestory but it is not on the RF for 19.
However, 19is the first recurrence of the complex definite de-scription le 11 septembre 2001 since the title andthe term?s definition in EDU 4.4E-elabContinuation7 Result [11-13] Result [14-16]Comment19This reuse of the full definite description could beconsidered a case of SDRT?s discourse subordina-tion.6 RFC and distances of attachmentOur empirical study vindicates SDRT?s RFC, butit also has computational implications.
Using theRFC dramatically diminishes the number of at-tachment possibilities and thus greatly reduces thesearch space for any incremental discourse pars-ing algorithm.8 The mean of nodes that are openon the RF at any given moment on our ANNODISdata is 16.43% of all the nodes in the graph.Our data also allowed us to calculate the dis-tance of attachment sites from LAST, which couldbe an important constraint on machine learningalgorithms for constructing discourse structures.Given a pair of constituents (?i, ?j) distance iscalculated either textually (the number of inter-vening EDUs between ?i and ?j) or topologically(the length the shortest path between ?i and ?j).Topological distance, however, does not take intoaccount the fact that a textually further segment iscognitively less salient.
Moreover, this measurecan give the same distance to nodes that are textu-ally far away between them due to long distancepop-ups (Asher and Lascarides, 2003).
A purelytextual distance, on the other hand, gives the samedistance to an EDU ?i and a complex segment[?1, .
.
.
, ?i] even if ?1 and ?i are textually dis-tant (since both have the same span end).
We useda measure combining both.
The distance schemethat we used assigns to each EDU its textual dis-tance from LAST in the graph under consideration,while a complex segment of rank 1 gets a distancewhich is computed from the highest distance oftheir constituent EDUs plus 1.
For a constituent ?of rank n we have:Dist = Max{dist(x) : x in ?
}+ n8An analogous approach for search space reduction is fol-lowed by duVerle and Prendinger (2009) who use the ?Prin-ciple of Sequentiality?
(Marcu, 2000), though they do not sayhow much the search space is reduced.7The distribution of attachment follows a powerlaw with 40% of attachments performed non-locally, that is on segments of distance 2 or more(figure 1).
This implies that the distance betweencandidate attachment sites that are on the RF is animportant feature for an ML algorithm.
It is impor-tant to note at this point that following the baselineapproach of always attaching on the LAST misses40% of attachments.
We also have 20.38% of thenon-local, non-adjacent attachments in our anno-tations.
So an RST parser using Marcu?s (2000)adjacency constraint as do duVerle and Prendinger(2009) would miss these.01020304050600 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20PercentageAttachment distance33333333333333333333Figure 1: Distribution of attachment distance7 Related WorkSeveral studies have shown that the RFC may beviolated as an anaphoric constraint when thereare other clues, content or linguistic features, thatdetermine the antecedent.
(Poesio and di Euge-nio, 2001; Holler and Irmen, 2007; Asher, 2008;Pr?vot and Vieu, 2008), for example, show thatanaphors such as definite descriptions and com-plex demonstratives, which often provide enoughcontent on their own to isolate their antecedents,or pronouns in languages like German which mustobey gender agreement, might remain felicitousalthough the discourse relations between them andtheir antecedents might violate the RFC.
Usuallythere are few linguistic clues that help find theappropriate antecedent to a discourse relation, incontrast to the anaphoric expressions mentionedabove.
Exceptions involve stylistic devices likedirect quotation that license discourse subordina-tion.
Thus, SDRT predicts that RFC violations fordiscourse attachments should be much more rarethan those for the resolution of anaphors that pro-vide linguistic clues about their antecedents.As regards other empirical validation of var-ious versions of the RFC for the attachment ofdiscourse constituents, Wolf and Gibson (2006)show an RST-like RFC is not supported in theircorpus GraphBank.
Our study concurs in thatsome 20% of the attachments in our corpus can-not be formulated in RST.9 On the other hand,we note that because of the 2 dimensional natureof SDRT graphs and because of the caveats intro-duced by structural relations and discourse sub-ordination, the counterexamples from GraphBankagainst, say, RST representations do not carry overstraightforwardly to SDRSs.
In fact, once thesefactors are taken into account, the RFC violationsin our corpus and in GraphBank are roughly aboutthe same.8 ConclusionsWe have shown that SDRT?s RFC has strong empir-ical support: the attachments of our 3 completelynaive annotators fully comply with RFC 91.7% ofthe time and partially comply with it 96% of thetime.
As a constraint on discourse parsing SDRT?sRFC, we have argued, is both empirically andcomputationally motivated.
We have also shownthat non-local attachments occur about 40% of thetime, which implies that attaching directly on theLAST will not yield good results.
Further, many ofthe non local attachments do not respect RST?s ad-jacency constraint.
We need SDRT?s RFC to get theright attachment points for our corpus.
We believethat empirical studies of the kind we have givenhere are essential to finding robust and useful fea-tures that will vastly improve discourse parsers.9One other study we are aware of is Sassen and K?hn-lein (2005), who show that in chat conversations, the RFCdoes not always hold unconditionally.
Since this genre ofdiscourse is not always coherent, it is expected that the RFCwill not always hold here.8ReferencesAsher, N. and A. Lascarides.
2003.
Logics of Con-versation.
Studies in Natural Language Processing.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK.Asher, N. and L. Vieu.
2005.
Subordinating and co-ordinating discourse relations.
Lingua, 115(4):591?610.Asher, N. 1993.
Reference to Abstract Objects in Dis-course.
Kluwer Academic Publishers.Asher, N. 2007.
A large view of semantic content.Pragmatics and Cognition, 15(1):17?39.Asher, N. 2008.
Troubles on the right frontier.In Benz, A. and P. K?hnlein, editors, Constraintsin Discourse, Pragmatics and Beyond New Series,chapter 2, pages 29?52.
John Benjamins PublishingCompany.Baldridge, J., N. Asher, and J.
Hunter.
2007.
An-notation for and robust parsing of discourse struc-ture on unrestricted texts.
Zeitschrift fur Sprachwis-senschaft, 26:213?239.Danlos, L. 2008.
Strong generative capacity of rst,sdrt and discourse dependency dags.
In Benz, A.and P. K?hnlein, editors, Constraints in Discourse,Pragmatics and Beyond New Series, pages 69?95.John Benjamins Publishing Company.duVerle, D. and H. Prendinger.
2009.
A novel dis-course parser based on support vector machine clas-sification.
In Proceedings of ACL, pages 665?673,Suntec, Singapore, August.Hardt, D. and M. Romero.
2004.
Ellipsis andthe structure of discourse.
Journal of Semantics,21:375?414, November.Hardt, D., N. Asher, and J. Busquets.
2001.
Discourseparallelism, scope and ellipsis.
Journal of Seman-tics, 18:1?16.Holler, A. and L. Irmen.
2007.
Empirically assessingeffects of the right frontier constraint.
In Anaphora:Analysis, Algorithms and Applications, pages 15?27.
Springer, Berlin/Heidelberg.Lascarides, A. and N. Asher.
1993.
Temporal interpre-tation, discourse relations and commonsense entail-ment.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 16(5):437?493.Lee, A., R. Prasad, A. Joshi, and B. Webber.
2008.Departures from tree structures in discourse: Sharedarguments in the penn discourse treebank.
In Con-straints in Discourse (CID ?08), pages 61?68.Mann, W. and S. Thompson.
1987.
Rhetorical struc-ture theory: A framework for the analysis of texts.Technical Report ISI/RS-87-185, Information Sci-ences Institute, Marina del Rey, California.Mann, W. and S. Thompson.
1988.
Rhetorical struc-ture theory: Towards a functional theory of text or-ganization.
Text, 8(3):243?281.Marcu, D. 2000.
The Theory and Practice of Dis-course Parsing and Summarization.
The MIT Press.Muller, P. and A. Raymonet.
2005.
Using inferencefor evaluating models of temporal discourse.
In12th International Symposium on Temporal Repre-sentation and Reasoning, pages 11?19.
IEEE Com-puter Society Press.Poesio, M. and B. di Eugenio.
2001.
Discourse struc-ture and anaphoric accessibility.
In Proc.
of theESSLLI Workshop on Discourse Structure and In-formation Structure, August.Polanyi, L. 1985.
A theory of discourse structure anddiscourse coherence.
In Kroeber, P. D., W. H. Eil-fort, and K. L. Peterson, editors, Papers from theGeneral Session at the 21st Regional Meeting of theChicago Linguistics Society.Polanyi, L. 1988.
A formal model of the structure ofdiscourse.
Journal of Pragmatics, 12:601?638.Pr?vot, L. and L. Vieu.
2008.
The moving right fron-tier.
In Benz, A. and P. K?hnlein, editors, Con-straints in Discourse, Pragmatics and Beyond NewSeries, chapter 3, pages 53?66.
John BenjaminsPublishing Company.Sassen, C. and P. K?hnlein.
2005.
The right fron-tier constraint as conditional.
In ComputationalLinguistics and Intelligent Text Processing, LectureNotes in Computer Science (LNCS), pages 222?225.Setzer, A., R. Gaizauskas, and M. Hepple.
2003.Using semantic inferences for temporal annotationcomparison.
In Proceedings of the Fourth Interna-tional Workshop on Inference in Computational Se-mantics (ICoS-4).Webber, B.
1988.
Title discourse deixis and discourseprocessing.
Technical Report MS-CIS-88-75, Uni-versity of Pennsylvania, Department of Computerand Information Science, September.Wolf, F. and E. Gibson.
2006.
Coherence in NaturalLanguage: Data Stuctures and Applications.
TheMIT Press.9
