Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2010), pages 1020?1028,Beijing, August 2010Ukwabelana - An open-source morphological Zulu corpusSebastian SpieglerIntelligent Systems GroupUniversity of Bristolspiegler@cs.bris.ac.ukAndrew van der SpuyLinguistics DepartmentUniversity of the Witwatersrandandrew.vanderspuy@wits.ac.zaPeter A. FlachIntelligent Systems GroupUniversity of Bristolpeter.flach@bris.ac.ukAbstractZulu is an indigenous language of SouthAfrica, and one of the eleven officiallanguages of that country.
It is spokenby about 11 million speakers.
Althoughit is similar in size to some Westernlanguages, e.g.
Swedish, it is consid-erably under-resourced.
This paperpresents a new open-source morphologi-cal corpus for Zulu named Ukwabelanacorpus.
We describe the agglutinatingmorphology of Zulu with its multipleprefixation and suffixation, and alsointroduce our labeling scheme.
Further,the annotation process is described andall single resources are explained.
Thesecomprise a list of 10,000 labeled and100,000 unlabeled word types, 3,000part-of-speech (POS) tagged and 30,000raw sentences as well as a morphologicalZulu grammar, and a parsing algorithmwhich hypothesizes possible word rootsand enumerates parses that conform to theZulu grammar.
We also provide a POStagger which assigns the grammaticalcategory to a morphologically analyzedword type.
As it is hoped that the corpusand all resources will be of benefit toany person doing research on Zulu or oncomputer-aided analysis of languages,they will be made available in the publicdomain from http://www.cs.bris.ac.uk/Research/MachineLearning/Morphology/Resources/.1 IntroductionZulu (also known as isiZulu) is a Bantu languageof South Africa, classified as S.30 in Guthrie?sclassification scheme (Guthrie, 1971).
Since1994, it has been recognized as one of the elevenofficial languages of South Africa.
It has a writtenhistory of about 150 years: the first grammar waspublished by Grout (1859), and the first dictionaryby Colenso (1905).
There are about 11 millionmother-tongue speakers, who constitute approxi-mately 23% of South Africa?s population, makingZulu the country?s largest language.Zulu is highly mutually intelligible with theXhosa, Swati and Southern Ndebele languages,and with Ndebele of Zimbabwe (Lanham, 1960),to the extent that all of these can be consid-ered dialects or varieties of a single language,Nguni.
Despite its size, Zulu is considerablyunder-resourced, compared to Western languageswith similar numbers of speakers, e.g.
Swedish.There are only about four regular publications inZulu, there are few published books, and the lan-guage is not used as a medium of instruction.This of course is partly due to the short time-span of its written history, but the main reason, ofcourse, is the apartheid history of South Africa:for most of the twentieth century resources wereallocated to Afrikaans and English, the two formerofficial languages, and relatively few resourcesto the indigenous Bantu languages.
Since 1994,Zulu has had a much larger presence in the media,with several television programs being broadcastin Zulu every day.
Yet much needs to be done inorder to improve the resources available to Zuluspeakers and students of Zulu.The aim of the project reported in this paperwas to establish a Zulu corpus, named the Uk-wabelana corpus1, consisting of morphologicallylabeled words (that is, word types) and part-of-speech (POS) tagged sentences.
Along with thelabeled corpus, unlabeled words and sentences, amorphological grammar, a semi-automatic mor-1Ukwabelana means ?to share?
in Zulu where the ?k?
ispronounced voiced like a [g].1020phological analyzer and a POS tagger for morpho-logically analyzed words will be provided.The sources used for the corpus were limited tofictional works and the Zulu Bible.
This meansthat there is not a wide variety of registers, andperhaps even of vocabulary items.
This defect willhave to be corrected in future work.The Ukwabelana corpus can be used to de-velop and train automatic morphological analyz-ers, which in turn tag a large corpus of writ-ten Zulu, similar to the Brown corpus or theBritish National Corpus.
Moreover, the list ofPOS tagged sentences is an essential step towardsbuilding an automatic syntactic tagger, which stilldoes not exist for Zulu, and a tagged corpus ofZulu.
Such a corpus would be beneficial to lan-guage researchers as it provides them with ex-amples of actual usage, as opposed to elicitedor invented examples, which may be artificial orunlikely to occur in real discourse.
This wouldgreatly improve the quality of Zulu dictionariesand grammars, most of which rely heavily onthe work of Doke (1927) and Doke, Malcom andSikakana (1958), with little in the way of inno-vation.
Morphological tagging is also useful forpractical computational applications like predic-tive text, spell-checking, grammar checking andmachine translation; in the case of Zulu, wherea large percentage of grammatical information isconveyed by prefixes and suffixes rather than byseparate words, it is essential.
For example, inEnglish, the negative is expressed by means of aseparate word ?not?, but in Zulu the negative isconstructed using a prefix-and-suffix combinationon the verb, and this combination differs accord-ing to the mood of the verb (indicative, participialor subjunctive).
The practical computational ap-plications mentioned could have a very great im-pact on the use of Zulu as a written language, asspell-checking and grammar checking would ben-efit proofreaders, editors and writers.
Machinetranslation could aid in increasing the number oftexts available in Zulu, thus making it more of aliterary language, and allowing it to become es-tablished as a language of education.
The useof Zulu in public life could also increase.
Cur-rently, the tendency is to use English, as this isthe language that reaches the widest audience.
Ifhigh-quality automatic translation becomes avail-able, this would no longer be necessary.
As it ishoped that the Ukwabelana corpus will be of ben-efit to any person doing research on Zulu or oncomputer-aided analysis of languages, it will bemade available as the first morphologically anal-ysed corpus of Zulu in the public domain.2 Related workIn this section, we will give an overview of lin-guistic research on Nguni languages, followingthe discussions in van der Spuy (2001), and there-after a summary of computational approaches tothe analysis of Zulu.2.1 Linguistic research on Nguni languagesThe five Nguni languages Zulu, Xhosa, SouthAfrican Ndebele, Swati, and Zimbabwean Nde-bele are highly mutually intelligible, and for thisreason, works on any of the other Nguni languagesare directly relevant to an analysis of Zulu.There have been numerous studies of Ngunigrammar, especially its morphology; in fact,the Nguni languages probably rival Swahili andChewa for the title of most-studied Bantu lan-guage.
The generative approach to morphologi-cal description (as developed by Aronoff (1976),Selkirk (1982), Lieber (1980), Lieber (1992)) hashad very little influence on most of the work thathas been done on Nguni morphology.Usually, the descriptions have been atheoreti-cal or structuralist.
Doke?s paradigmatic descrip-tion of the morphology (Doke, 1927; Doke, 1935)has remained the basis for linguistic work in theSouthern Bantu languages.
Doke (1935) criticizedprevious writers on Bantu grammars for basingtheir classification, treatment and terminology ontheir own mother tongue or Latin.
His intentionwas to create a grammatical structure for Bantuwhich did not conform to European or classicalstandards.
Nevertheless, Doke himself could notshake off the European mindset: he treated thelanguages as if they had inflectional paradigms,with characteristics like subjunctive or indicativebelonging to the whole word, rather than to identi-fiable affixes; in fact, he claimed (1950) that Bantulanguages are ?inflectional with [just] a tendencyto agglutination?, and assumed that the morphol-1021ogy was linear not hierarchical.
Most subsequentlinguistic studies and reference grammars of theSouthern Bantu languages have been directed atrefining or redefining Doke?s categories from aparadigmatic perspective.Important Nguni examples are Van Eeden(1956), Van Wyk (1958), Beuchat (1966), Wilkes(1971), Nkabinde (1975), Cope (1984), Davey(1984), Louw (1984), Ziervogel et al (1985),Gauton (1990), Gauton (1994), Khumalo (1992),Poulos and Msimang (1998), Posthumus (1987),Posthumus (1988), Posthumus (1988) and Posthu-mus (2000).
Among the very few generativemorphological descriptions of Nguni are Lanham(1971), Mbadi (1988) and Du Plessis (1993).
Lan-ham (1971) gives a transformational analysis ofZulu adjectival and relative forms.
This analy-sis can be viewed as diachronic rather than syn-chronic.
Mbadi (1988) applies Lieber (1980)and Selkirk?s percolation theory (Selkirk, 1982)to a few Xhosa morphological forms.
Du Plessis(1993) gives a hierarchical description of the mor-phology of the verb, but he assumes that deriva-tion is syntactical rather than lexical.In short, there has been no thorough-goinggenerative analysis of the morphology whichhas treated the Nguni languages as agglutinativerather than inflectional.2.2 Computational approaches to analyzingZuluIn the last decade, various computational ap-proaches for Zulu have been reported.
Based onthe Xerox finite-state toolbox by Beesley and Kart-tunen (2003), Pretorius and Bosch (2003) devel-oped a prototype of a computational morpholog-ical analyzer for Zulu.
Using a semi-automatedprocess, a morphological lexicon and a rule-basewere built incrementally.
Later work (Pretoriusand Bosch, 2007) dealt with overgeneration ofthe Zulu finite-state tool concerning locative for-mation from nouns and verbal extensions to verbroots.
Pretorius and Bosch (2009) also used cross-linguistic similarities and dissimilarities of Zuluto bootstrap a morphological analyser for Xhosa.Joubert et al (2004) followed a bootstrappingapproach to morphological analysis.
A simpleframework uses morpheme lists, morphophono-logical and morphosyntactic rules which are learntby consulting an oracle, in their case a linguis-tic expert who corrects analyses.
The frame-work then revises its grammar so that the updatedmorpheme lists and rules do not contradict previ-ously found analyses.
Botha and Barnard (2005)compared two approaches for gathering Zulu textcorpora from the World Wide Web.
They drewthe conclusion that using commercial search en-gines for finding Zulu websites outperforms web-crawlers even with a carefully selected startingpoint.
They saw the reason for that in the fact thatmost documents on the internet are in one of theworld?s dominant languages.
Bosch and Eiselen(2005) presented a spell checker for Zulu based onmorphological analysis and regular expressions.It was shown that after a certain threshold forthe lexicon size performance could only be im-proved by incrementally extending morphologicalrules.
Experiments were performed for basic andcomplex Zulu verbs and nouns, and large num-bers of words still were not recognized.
Spiegleret al (2008) performed experiments where theytested four machine learning algorithms for mor-phological analysis with different degrees of su-pervision.
An unsupervised algorithm analyzeda raw word list, two semi-supervised algorithmswere provided with word stems and subsequentlysegmented prefix and suffix sequences, and thesupervised algorithm used a language model ofanalysed words which was applied to new words.They experimentally showed that there is a cer-tain trade-off between the usage of labeled dataand performance.
They also reckoned that com-putational analysis improves if words of differentgrammatical categories are analysed separatelysince there exist homographic morphemes acrossdifferent word categories.3 Zulu morphologyZulu is an agglutinative language, with a complexmorphology.
It presents an especial problem forcomputational analysis, because words usually in-corporate both prefixes and suffixes, and there canbe several of each.
This makes it hard to identifythe root by mechanical means, as the root couldbe the first, second, third, or even a later mor-pheme in a word.
The complexities involved are1022exacerbated by the fact that a considerable num-ber of affixes, especially prefixes, have allomor-phic forms.
This is largely brought about by thefact that Zulu has a prohibition against sequencesof vowels, so that a prefix whose canonical form isnga- will have an allomorph ng- before roots thatbegin with vowels.
Given a sequence nga-, then, itis possible that it constitutes an entire morpheme,or the beginning of a morpheme like the verb rootngabaz- ?to be uncertain?, or a morpheme ng- fol-lowed by a vowel-commencing root like and- ?toincrease?.
Furthermore, many morphemes are ho-mographs, so that the prefix nga- could representeither the potential mood morpheme or a form ofthe negative that occurs in subordinate clauses;and the sequence ng- could be the allomorph of ei-ther of these, or of a number of homographic mor-phemes ngi-, which represent the first person sin-gular in various moods.
Besides these phonologi-cally conditioned allomorphs, there are also mor-phologically conditioned ones, for example thelocative prefix e- has an allomorph o- that occursin certain morphological circumstances.
Certainmorpheme sequences also exhibit syncretism, sothat while most nouns take a sequence of prefixesknown as the initial vowel and the noun prefix, asin i-mi-zi ?villages?, nouns of certain classes, likeclass 5, syncretise these two prefixes, as in i-gama?name?, where the prefix i- represents both the ini-tial vowel and the noun prefix.Like all other Bantu languages, Zulu divides itsnouns into a number of classes.
The class is oftenidentifiable from the noun prefix that is attachedto the noun, and it governs the agreement of allwords that modify the noun, as well as of predi-cates of which the noun is a subject.
Object agree-ment may also be marked on the predicate.
Twoexamples of this agreement are given below.Example 1.Leso si-tshudeni e-si-hle e-ngi-si-fundis-ile si-phas-e kahle.that student who-AGR-good who-I-him-teach-PAST AGR-pass-PAST well.
?That good student whom I taught passed well.
?Example 2.Lowo m-fundi o-mu-hle e-ngi-m-fundis-ile u-phas-e kahle.that learner who-AGR-good who-I-him-teach-PAST AGR-pass-PAST well.
?That good learner whom I taught passed well.
?The differences in agreement morphology in thetwo sentences is brought about because the nounssitshudeni and mfundi belong to different classes.Canonici (1996) argues that a noun should be as-signed to a class by virtue of the agreement that ittakes.
In terms of this criterion, there are twelvenoun classes in Zulu.
These classes are numbered1?7, 9, 10, 11, 14, 15.
The numbering systemwas devised by Meinhof (1906), and reflects thehistorical affinities between Zulu and other Bantulanguages: Zulu lacks classes 8, 12 and 13, whichare found in other Bantu languages.
In the labelsused on the database, morphemes that commandor show agreement have been labeled as <xn>,where x is a letter or sequence of letters, and n isa number: thus the morpheme m- in mfundi is la-beled <n1>, as it marks the noun as belonging tonoun class 1.
The morpheme si- in engisifundis-ile is marked <o7>, as it shows object agreementwith a noun of class 7.Zulu predicatives may be either verbal or non-verbal ?
the latter are referred to in the literature ascopulatives.
Copulatives usually consist of a pred-icative prefix and a base, which may be a noun,an adjective, or a prepositional, locative or adver-bial form.
There may also be various tense, aspectand polarity markers.
They translate the Englishverb ?be?, plus its complement ?
Zulu has no di-rect equivalent of ?be?
; the verb -ba, which hasthe closest meaning, is probably better translatedas ?become?.
Examples of copulative forms areubenguthisha ?he was a teacher?, zimandla ?theyare strong?, basekhaya ?they are at home?.
Pred-icatives may occur in a variety of moods, tenses,aspects and polarities; these are usually distin-guished by the affixes attached to the base form.Thus in engasesendlini ?
(s)he no longer being inthe house?, the initial prefix e- indicates third per-son singular, class 1, participial mood; the prefixnga- denotes negative; the first prefix se- denotescontinuative aspect; the second prefix se- is thelocative prefix; n- shows that the noun belongs toclass 9; dl- is the noun root meaning ?house?, anallomorph of the canonical form -dlu; and -ini isthe locative suffix.
Thus in typical agglutinativemanner, each affix contributes a distinctive part of1023the meaning of the word as a whole.
This charac-teristic of the language was exploited in the label-ing system used for the morphological corpus: la-bels were designed so as to indicate the grammati-cal function of the morpheme.
A person searchingfor past tense negative verbs, for example, couldsimply search for the combination of <past >,<neg> and <vr>.
A complete list of morphemes,allomorphs and their labels is provided along withthe corpus and other resources.According to the Dokean grammatical tradition(Doke, 1927), Zulu has a large number of partsof speech.
This is because what would be sepa-rate words in other languages are often prefixes inZulu, and also because various subtypes of deter-miner are given individual names.
The parts ofspeech recognised in the corpus are: noun, verb,adjective, pronoun, adverb, conjunction, prepo-sitional, possessive, locative, demonstrative, pre-sentative, quantitative, copulative and relative.Adjective includes the traditional Dokean ad-jective (a closed class of roots which take nounprefixes as their agreement prefixes) and the pred-icative form of the Dokean relative, which isseen as an open class of adjectives (cf.
van derSpuy (2006)).
Pronouns are the personal pro-nouns, which may also (sometimes in allomor-phic form) be used as agreement morphemes inquantifiers.
Adverbs may be forms derived fromadjectives by prefixing ka- to the root, or mor-phologically unanalysable forms like phansi ?infront, forward?.
Ideophones have been includedas adverbs.
Prepositionals are words that incor-porate the Dokean ?adverbials?
na- ?with?, nga-?by means of?, njenga- ?like?, kuna- ?more than?,etc., which are better analysed as prepositions.The presentative is Doke?s ?locative demonstra-tive copulative?
- the briefer name was suggestedby van der Spuy (2001).
Copulatives are allDoke?s copulatives, excluding the adjectives men-tioned above.
Relatives are all predicative formsincorporating a relative prefix.4 The labeling schemeThe labeling scheme has been based on the ideathat each morpheme in a word should be la-beled, even when words belong to a very re-stricted class.
For example, the demonstrativescould have been labeled as composite forms, butinstead it is assumed that demonstratives con-tain between one and three morphemes, e.g.le<d>si<d7>ya<po3> ?a demonstrative of thethird position referring to class 7?
- i.e.. ?that oneyonder, class 7?.
It should be possible from thisdetailed labeling to build up an amalgam of themorphological structure of the word.
The labelshave been chosen to be both as brief as possi-ble and as transparent as possible, though trans-parency was often sacrificed for brevity.
Thus in-dicative subject prefixes are labeled <i1-15>, rel-ative prefixes are labeled <r>, and noun prefixesare labeled <n1-15>; but negative subject pre-fixes are labeled <g1-15> and possessive agree-ment prefixes are labeled <z1-15>.
Sometimes asingle label was used for several different forms,when these are orthographically distinct, so forexample <asp> (aspect) is used as a label forthe following, among others: the continuative pre-fix sa- and its allomorph se-, the exclusive pre-fix se-, and the potential prefix nga- and its allo-morph ng-.
A person searching for forms contain-ing the potential aspect would have to search for?nga<asp> + ng<asp>?.
However, there shouldbe no ambiguity, as the orthographic form wouldeliminate this.
The detailed description of thescheme is provided by Spiegler et al (2010).5 Annotation processThe goal of this project was to build a reason-ably sized corpus of morphologically annotatedwords of high quality which could be later usedfor developing and training automatic morpholog-ical analyzers.
For this reason, we had gathered alist of the commonest Zulu word types, defineda partial grammar and parsed Zulu words with alogic algorithm which proposes possible parsesbased on the partial grammar.
Compared to acompletely manual approach, this framework pro-vided possible annotations to choose from or theoption to type in an annotation if none of the sug-gestions was the correct one.
This semi-automaticprocess speeded up the labeling by an estimatedfactor of 3-4, compared to a purely manual ap-proach.
In Figure 1 we illustrate the annotationprocess and in the following subsections each stepis detailed.1024?Hypothesis?generation?Hypothesis?evaluation?Best?hypothesis?Parsing?algorithm?Grammar?update?Web?interface?Annotation?framework?Curation?
Ukwabelana?corpus?Annotated?word?list?Unannotated?word?list?Partial?grammar?Figure 1: Process view of the annotation.5.1 Unannotated word listA list of unannotated Zulu words has been com-piled from fictional works and the Zulu Bible.
Theoriginal list comprises around 100,000 of the com-monest Zulu word types.
No information, mor-phological or syntactic, was given along with thewords.
We selected an initial subset of 10,000words although our long-term goal is the completeanalysis of the entire word list.5.2 Partial grammarOur choice for representing the morphologicalZulu grammar was the formalism of DefiniteClause Grammars (DCGs) used in the logic pro-gramming language Prolog.
Although we de-fined our grammar as a simple context-free gram-mar, DCGs can also express context-sensitivegrammars by associating variables as argumentsto non-terminal symbols (Gazdar and Mellish,1989).
When defining our morphological gram-mar, we assumed that a linguistic expert couldenumerate all or at least the most important mor-phological rules and morphemes of ?closed?
mor-pheme categories, e.g.
prefixes and suffixes ofnouns and verbs.
Morphemes of ?open?
categorieslike noun and verb roots, however, would need tobe hypothesized during the semi-automatic anal-ysis and confirmed by the linguistic expert.
Ourfinal grammar comprised around 240 morpholog-ical rules and almost 300 entries in the morphemedictionary.
Since we did not only want to recog-nize admissible Zulu words but also obtain theirmorphological structure, we needed to extend ourDCG by adding parse construction arguments asshown in the example below.Example 3.w((X)) --> n(X).n((X,Y,Z)) --> iv(X),n2(Y),nr(Z).iv(iv(a)) --> [a].n2(n2(ba))--> [ba].A possible parse for the word abantu ?people?could be iv(a),n2(ba),*nr(ntu) where?*?
marks the hypothesized noun root.With our partial grammar we could not directlyuse the inbuilt Prolog parser since we had to ac-count for missing dictionary entries: Zulu verband noun roots.
We therefore implemented analgorithm which would generate hypotheses forpossible parses according to our grammar.
The al-gorithm will be described in the next subsection.5.3 Hypothesis generationFor the hypothesis generation we reverted to logicprogramming and abductive reasoning.
Abduc-tion is a method of reasoning which is used withincomplete information.
It generates possible hy-potheses (parses) for an observation (word) and agiven theory (grammar).
Depending on the im-plementation, abduction finds the best hypothe-sis by evaluating all possible explanations.
Ourabductive algorithm is an extension of the meta-interpreter designed by Flach (1994) which onlyenumerates possible parses based on the grammar.A linguistic expert would then choose the best hy-pothesis.
The algorithm invokes rules top-downstarting with the most general until it reaches thelast level of syntactic variables.
These variables1025are then matched against their dictionary entriesfrom the left to the right of the word.
A possi-ble parse is found if either all syntactic variablescan be matched to existing dictionary entries orif an unmatched variable is listed as abducible.Abducibles are predefined non-terminal symbolswhose dictionary entry can be hypothesized.
Inour case, abducibles were noun and verb roots.5.4 Evaluation and best hypothesisOur annotation framework only enumerated al-lowable parses for a given word, therefore a lin-guistic expert needed to evaluate hypotheses.
Weprovided a web-interface to the annotation frame-work, so that multiple users could participate inthe annotation process.
They would choose eithera single or multiple correct parses.
If none of thehypotheses were correct, the user would providethe correct analysis.
Although our grammar wasincomplete it still generated a substantial numberof hypotheses per word.
These were in no par-ticular order and a result of the inherent ambi-guity of Zulu morphology.
We therefore experi-mented with different ways of improving the pre-sentation of parses.
The most promising approachwas structural sorting.
Parses were alphabeticallyre-ordered according to their morphemes and la-bels such that similar results were presented nextto each other.5.5 Grammar updateThe grammar was defined in an iterative processand extended if the linguistic expert found mor-phemes of closed categories which had not beenlisted yet or certain patterns of incomplete or in-correct parses caused by either missing or inaccu-rate rules.
The updated rules and dictionary wereconsidered for newly parsed words.5.6 Annotated word list and curation processAlthough there had been great effort in improv-ing the hypothesis generation of the parsing al-gorithm, a reasonable number of morphologicalanalyses still had to be provided manually.
Dur-ing the curation process, we therefore had to dealwith removing typos and standardizing morphemelabels provided by different experts.
In order toguarantee a high quality of the morphological cor-Category # Analyses #Word typesVerb 6965 4825Noun 1437 1420Relative 1042 988Prepositional 969 951Possessive 711 647Copulative 558 545Locative 380 379Adverb 156 155Modal 113 113Demonstrative 63 61Pronoun 38 31Interjection 24 24Presentative 15 15Adjective 14 14Conjunction 3 3Total# 12488 10171Table 1: Categories of labeled words.pus, we also inspected single labels and analysesfor their correctness.
This was done by examin-ing frequencies of labels and label combinationsassuming that infrequent labels and combinationswere likely to be incorrect and needed to be man-ually examined again.
The finally curated corpushas an estimated error of 0.4 ?
0.5 incorrect sin-gle labels and 2.8?
2.1 incorrect complete analy-ses per 100 parses.
Along with each word?s anal-ysis we wanted to provide part-of-speech (POS)tags.
This was done by using a set of rules whichdetermine the POS tag based on the morphologi-cal structure.
We developed a prototype of a POStagger which would assign the part-of-speech to agiven morphological analysis based on a set of 34rules.
A summary of morphological analyses andwords is given in Table 1.
The rules are providedin Spiegler et al (2010).5.7 POS tagging of sentencesIn addition to the list of morphologically labeledwords, we assigned parts-of-speech to a subset of30,000 Zulu sentences.
This task is straightfor-ward if each word of a sentence only belongs to asingle grammatical category.
This was the case for2595 sentences.
For 431 sentences, however, weneeded to disambiguate POS tags.
We achievedthis by analysing the left and right context of aword form and selecting the most probable part-of-speech from a given list of possible tags.The overall error is estimated at 3.1?0.3 incor-rect POS tags per 100 words for the 3,000 sen-1026Dataset # Sentences #Word tokens #Word types #Words per sentence Word lengthRaw 29,424 288,106 87,154 9.79?6.74 7.49?2.91Tagged 3,026 21,416 7,858 7.08?3.75 6.81?2.68Table 2: Statistics of raw and POS-tagged sentences.tences we tagged.
The summary statistics for rawand tagged sentences are shown in Table 2.6 The Ukwabelana corpus - a resourcedescriptionThe Ukwabelana corpus is three-fold:1.
It contains 10,000 morphologically labeledwords and 3,000 POS-tagged sentences.2.
The corpus also comprises around 100,000common Zulu word types and 30,000 Zulu sen-tences compiled from fictional works and theZulu Bible, from which the labeled words andsentences have been sampled.3.
Furthermore, all software and additional dataused during the annotation process is provided:the partial grammar in DCG format, the ab-ductive algorithm for parsing with incompleteinformation and a prototype for a POS taggerwhich assigns word categories to morphologi-cally analyzed words.We are making these resources publicly availablefrom http://www.cs.bris.ac.uk/Research/MachineLearning/Morphology/Resources/ sothat they will be of benefit to any person doingresearch on Zulu or on computer-aided analysisof languages.7 Conclusions and future workIn this paper, we have given an overview of themorphology of the language Zulu, which is spo-ken by 23% and understood by more than half ofthe South African population.
As an indigenouslanguage with a written history of 150 years whichwas only recognised as an official languages in1994, it is considerably under-resourced.
We havespent considerable effort to compile the first open-source corpus of labeled and unlabeled words aswell as POS-tagged and untagged sentences topromote research on this Bantu language.
Wehave described the annotation process and thetools for compiling this corpus.
We see this workas a first step in an ongoing effort to ultimatelylabel the entire word and sentence corpus.Our future work includes further automation ofthe annotation process by extending the describedabductive algorithm with a more sophisticated hy-pothesis evaluation and by combining syntacticaland morphological information during the deci-sion process.
Our research interest also lies in thefield of automatic grammar induction which willhelp to refine our partial grammar.
Another aspectis interactive labeling where a linguistic expert di-rects the search of an online parsing algorithm byproviding additional information.
Apart from thebenefits to language researchers, we foresee an ap-plication of the corpus by machine learners whichcan develop and train their algorithms for morpho-logical analysis.AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank Etienne Barnard and theHuman Language Technologies Research Groupfrom the Meraka Institute for their support duringthis project.
Furthermore, we want to acknowl-edge Johannes Magwaza, Bruno Gole?nia, KseniaShalonova and Roger Tucker.
The research workwas sponsored by EPSRC grant EP/E010857/1Learning the morphology of complex syntheticlanguages and a grant from the NRF (S. Africa).ReferencesAronoff.
1976.
Word Formation in Generative Grammar.The MIT Press.Beesley and Karttunen.
2003.
Finite State Morphology.University of Chicago Press.Beuchat.
1966.
The Verb in Zulu.
African Studies, 22:137?169.Bosch and Eiselen.
2005.
The Effectiveness of Morpho-logical Rules for an isiZulu Spelling Checker.
S. AfricanJournal of African Lang., 25:25?36.Botha and Barnard.
2005.
Two Approaches to GatheringText Corpora from the World Wide Web.
16th Ann.
Symp.of the Pattern Recog.
Ass.
of S. Africa.1027Canonici.
1996.
Zulu Grammatical Structure.
Zulu Lang.and Literature, University of Natal, Durban.Colenso.
1905.
Zulu-English Dictionary.
Natal, Vause,Slatter & Co.Cope.
1984.
An Outline of Zulu Grammars.
African Stud-ies, 43(2):83?102.Davey.
1984.
Adjectives and Relatives in Zulu.
S. AfricanJournal of African Lang., 4:125?138.Doke.
1927.
Text Book of Zulu Grammar.
WitwatersrandUniversity Press.Doke.
1935.
Bantu Linguistic Terminology.
Longman,Green and Co, London.Doke.
1954.
Handbook of African Lang., chapter The S.ernBantu Lang.
Oxford University Press.Doke, Malcom and Sikakana.
1958.
Zulu-English vocabu-lary.
Witwatersrand Uni.
Press.Du Plessis.
1993.
Linguistica: Festschrift EB van Wyk,chapter Inflection in Syntax, pp.
61?66.
Van Schaik, Pre-toria.Flach.
1994.
Simply Logical.
John Wiley.Gauton.
1990.
Adjektiewe en Relatiewe in Zulu.
Master?sthesis, University of Pretoria.Gauton.
1994.
Towards the Recognition of a Word Class?adjective?
for Zulu.
S. African Journal of African Lang.,14:62?71.Gazdar and Mellish.
1989.
Natural Language Processing inProlog.
Addison-Wesley.Grout.
1859.
The Isizulu: A Grammar Of The Zulu Lang.Kessinger Publishing.Guthrie.
1971.
Comparative Bantu: An Introduction tothe Comparative Linguistics and Prehistory of the BantuLang.
Farnborough, Gregg International Publishers.Joubert, Zimu, Davel, and Barnard.
2004.
A Frameworkfor Bootstrapping Morphological Decomposition.
Tech.report, CSIR/University of Pretoria, S. Africa.Khumalo.
1992.
African Linguistic Contributions, chapterThe morphology of the direct relative in Zulu.
Via Afrika.Lanham.
1960.
The Comparative Phonology of Nguni.Ph.D.
thesis, Witwatersrand Uni., Jo?burg, S. Africa.Lanham.
1971.
The Noun as Deep-Structure Source forNguni Adjectives and Relatives.
African Studies, 30:294?311.Lieber.
1980.
On the Organization of the Lexicon.
Ph.D.thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.Lieber.
1992.
Deconstructing Morphology.
The Universityof Chicago Press.Louw.
1984.
Word Categories in Southern Bantu.
AfricanStudies, 43(2):231?239.Mbadi.
1988.
Anthology of Articles on African Linguisticsand Literature, chapter The Percolation Theory in XhosaMorphology.
Lexicon, Jo?burg.Meinhof.
1906.
Grundzu?ge einer Vergleichenden Gram-matik der Bantusprachen.
Reimer, Berlin.Nkabinde.
1975.
A Revision of the Word Categories in Zulu.Ph.D.
thesis, University of S. Africa.Posthumus.
1987.
Relevancy and Applicability of Terminol-ogy Concerning the Essential Verb Categories in AfricanLang.
Logos, 7:185?212.Posthumus.
1988.
Identifying Copulatives in Zulu and S.ernSotho.
S. African Journal of African Lang., 8:61?64.Posthumus.
2000.
The So-Called Adjective in Zulu.
S.African Journal of African Lang., 20:148?158.Poulos and Msimang.
1998.
A Linguistic Analysis of Zulu.Via Afrika.Pretorius and Bosch.
2003.
Finite-State ComputationalMorphology: An Analyzer Prototype For Zulu.
MachineTranslation, 18:195?216.Pretorius and Bosch.
2007.
Containing Overgeneration inZulu Computational Morphology.
Proceedings of 3rdLang.
and Technology Conference, pp.
54 ?
58, Poznan.Pretorius and Bosch.
2009.
Exploiting Cross-LinguisticSimilarities in Zulu and Xhosa Computational Morphol-ogy.
Workshop on Lang.
Technologies for African Lang.
(AfLaT), pp.
96?103.Selkirk.
1982.
The Syntax of Words.
MIT Press.Spiegler, Golenia, Shalonova, Flach, and Tucker.
2008.Learning the Morphology of Zulu with Different Degreesof Supervision.
IEEE Workshop on Spoken Lang.
Tech.Spiegler, van der Spuy, Flach.
2010.
Additional material forthe Ukwabelana Zulu corpus.
Tech.
report, University ofBristol, U.K.van der Spuy.
2001.
Grammatical Structure and Zulu Mor-phology.
Ph.D. thesis, University of the Witwatersrand,Jo?burg, S. Africa.van der Spuy.
2006.
Wordhood in Zulu.
S.ern African Lin-guistics and Applied Lang.
Studies, 24(3):311?329.Van Eeden.
1956.
Zoeloe-Grammatika.
Pro Ecclesia, Stel-lenbosch.Van Wyk.
1958.
Woordverdeling in Noord-Sotho en Zulu:?n bydrae tot die vraagstuk van word-identifikasie in dieBantoetale.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Pretoria.Wilkes.
1971.
Agtervoegsels van die werkwoord in Zulu.Ph.D.
thesis, Rand Afrikaans University.Ziervogel, Louw, and Taljaard.
1985.
A Handbook of theZulu Lang.
Van Schaik, Pretoria.1028
