Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2010), pages 1011?1019,Beijing, August 2010Explore the Structure of Social Tags by Subsumption RelationsXiance Si, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong SunDepartment of Computer Science and TechnologyState Key Lab on Intelligent Technology and SystemsNational Lab for Information Science and TechnologyTsinghua University{sixiance,lzy.thu}@gmail.com, sms@tsinghua.edu.cnAbstractThanks to its simplicity, social taggingsystem has accumulated huge amount ofuser contributed tags.
However, usercontributed tags lack explicit hierarchi-cal structure, while many tag-based ap-plications would benefit if such a struc-ture presents.
In this work, we explorethe structure of tags with a directed andeasy-to-evaluate relation, named as thesubsumption relation.
We propose threemethods to discover the subsumption rela-tion between tags.
Specifically, the taggeddocument?s content is used to find the re-lations, which leads to better result.
Be-sides relation discovery, we also proposea greedy algorithm to eliminate the re-dundant relations by constructing a Lay-ered Directed Acyclic Graph (Layered-DAG) of tags.
We perform quantita-tive evaluations on two real world datasets.
The results show that our methodsoutperform hierarchical clustering-basedapproach.
Empirical study of the con-structed Layered-DAG and error analysisare also provided.1 IntroductionIn this work, we aim at exploring the structure ofsocial tags.
Social tagging is widely used in Web-based services, in which a user could use any wordto annotate an object.
Thanks to its simplicity, ser-vices with social tagging features have attracted alot of users and have accumulated huge amount ofannotations.
However, comparing to taxonomies,social tagging has an inherent shortcoming, thatFigure 1: Examples of (a) flat tag cloud, (b) hier-archical clusters, and (c) subsumption relations.there is no explicit hierarchical relations betweentags.
Figure 1 (a) shows an example of the com-monly used flat tag cloud, in which only the pop-ularity of a tag is concerned.
Kome et al (2005)argued that implicit hierarchical relations exist insocial tags.
Previous literature shows that orga-nizing tags in hierarchical structures will help tag-based Information Retrieval applications (Begel-man et al, 2006; Brooks and Montanez, 2006).Hierarchical clustering could reveal the simi-larity relations of tags.
Figure 1 (b) shows anexample of a typical hierarchical clustering oftags.
While clusters can capture similarity be-tween tags, problems still remain: First, clustersmix different relations, such as synonyms and hy-pernyms.
Second, clusters also ignore the direc-tion of relations, for example, the direction inbrowser ?
firefox.
Third, it is hard to evalu-ate the correctness of clustering.
Specifically, itis hard to tell if two tags are similar or not.
Inpractice, directed and easy-to-evaluate relationsbetween tags are preferred, such as Figure 1 (c).In this work, we explore the structure of so-cial tags by discovering a directed and easy-to-evaluate relation between tags, named subsump-tion relation.
A tag ta subsumes tb, if and onlyif wherever tb is used, we can also replace it1011with ta.
Unlike similar-to, subsumption relationis asymmetric, and its correctness is easier to as-sess.
Then, we propose three ways to discover thesubsumption relations, through tag-tag, tag-wordand tag-reason co-occurrences respectively.
In thethird way, A tag?s reason is defined as the wordin the content that explains the using of the tag.We employ the Tag Allocation Model (TAM) pro-posed by Si et al (2010) to find the reason foreach tag.
Besides subsumption relation discov-ery, we also propose a greedy algorithm to removethe redundant relations.
The removal is done byconstructing a Layered Directed Acyclic Graph(Layered-DAG) of tags with the subsumption re-lations.We carried out the experiments on two realworld data sets.
The results of quantitative evalu-ation showed that tag-reason based approach out-performed other two methods and a commonlyused hierarchical clustering-based method.
Wealso do empirical study on the output of Layered-DAG construction.The contribution of this paper can be summa-rized as follows:1.
We explore the structure of social tags bya clearly defined subsumption relation.
Wepropose methods to discover the subsump-tion relation automatically, leveraging boththe co-occurred tags and the content of an-notated document.2.
We propose an algorithm to eliminate the re-dundant relations by constructing a Layered-DAG of tags.3.
We perform both empirical and quantitativeevaluation of proposed methods on two realworld data sets.The rest of the paper is organized as follows:Section 2 surveys the related work; Section 3 de-fines the subsumption relation we used, and pro-poses methods for relation discovery; Section 4proposes a greedy algorithm for Layered-DAGconstruction; Section 5 explains the experimen-tal settings and shows the evaluation results.
Sec-tion 6 concludes the paper.2 Related WorkTo explore the hierarchical relations between tags,an intuitive way is to cluster the tags into hier-archical clusters.
Wu et al (2006b) used a fac-torized model, namely Latent Semantic Analy-sis, to group tags into non-hierarchical topics forbetter recommendation.
Brooks et al (2006) ar-gued that performing Hierarchical AgglomerativeClustering (HAC) on tags can improve the col-laborative tagging system.
Later, HAC on tagswas also used for improving personalized recom-mendation (Shepitsen et al, 2008).
Heymann etal.
(2006) clustered tags into a tree by a similarity-based greedy tree-growing method.
They evalu-ated the obtained trees empirically, and reportedthat the method is simple yet powerful for orga-nizing tags with hierarchies.
Based on Heymannet al?s work, Schwarzkopf et al (2007) proposedan approach for modeling users with the hierarchyof tags.
Begelman et al (2006) used top-down hi-erarchical clustering, instead of bottom-up HAC,to organize tags, and argued that tag hierarchiesimprove user experiences in their system.
Mostof the hierarchical clustering algorithms rely onthe symmetric similarity between tags, while thediscovered relations are hard to evaluate quantita-tively, since one cannot distinguish similar fromnot-similar with a clear boundary.People have also worked on bridging social tag-ging systems and ontologies.
An ontology definesrelations between entities.
Peter Mika (2005) pro-posed an extended scheme of social tagging thatincludes actors, concepts and objects, and usedtag co-occurrences to construct an ontology fromsocial tags.
Wu et al (2006a) used hierarchicalclustering to build ontology from tags that alsouse similar-to relations.
Later, ontology schemesthat fits social tagging system were proposed, suchas (Van Damme et al, 2007) and (Echarte etal., 2007), which mainly focused on the relationbetween tags, objects and users, rather than be-tween tags themselves.
Alexandre Passant (2007)mapped tags to domain ontologies manually toimprove information retrieval in social media.
Toconstruct tag ontology automatically, Angeletouet al (2007) used ontologies built by domain ex-perts to find relations between tags, but observeda very low coverage.
Specia et al (2007) pro-posed an integrated framework for organizing tagsby existing ontologies, but no experiment was per-formed.
Kim et al (2008) summarized the state-1012of-the-art methods to model tags with semanticannotations.Before social tagging was invented, Sandersonet al (1999) proposed to use subsumption relationto organize words in text hierarchically.
Schmitzet al (2006) followed the idea to use subsumptionrelation for organizing Flickr 1 tag, where tag-tagco-occurrences are used for discover the relations.We follow the idea of subsumption relation in thispaper, and explore alternative ways for relationdiscovery.3 Subsumption Relations in TagsIn this section, we define the subsumption relationused in our study, and propose three methods todiscover the subsumption relations.3.1 DefinitionsFirst, we introduce the symbols used through outthe paper: A tag is denoted as t ?
T , where T isthe set of all tags.
To distinguish from words, weuse fixed-width to represent the example tags.An annotated document is denoted as d ?
D,where D is the set of all documents.
The wordsin d are denoted as a set {wdi}, where i ?
[1, |d|],and |d| is the number of words in d.Inspired by (Sanderson and Croft, 1999), wedefine the subsumption relation between ta and tbas follows: ta subsumes tb, means that whereverthe tag tb is used, ta can also be used withoutambiguity.
The subsumption relation between taand tb is denoted as ta ?s tb.Subsumption relation is directional, that is,ta ?s tb does not imply tb ?s ta.
For ex-ample, literature ?s chineseliterature,since for any document annotated withchineseliterature, we can also annotateit with literature.
However, if we swapped thetwo tags, the statement would not hold.Subsumption relation is more strict than simi-larity.
For example, during the time of Haiti earth-quake, the tag earthquake is close to haiti insimilarity, but none of them implies the use of theother one: document annotated with earthquakemay refer to the earthquake in China, while docu-1http://www.flickr.com.
An image sharing site that allowsusers to annotate images with tagsment annotated with haiti may mean the travel-ing experience in Haiti.Note that the subsumption has transitivity prop-erty, that ta ?s tb and tb ?s tc means ta ?stc, which corresponds to our intuition.
For in-stance, naturaldisaster ?s earthquake anddisaster?snaturaldisaster means disaster?searthquake.3.2 Discover Subsumption RelationWe discover the subsumption relations by estimat-ing the probability p(ta|tb).
The motivation is, ifta ?s tb and tb is used, it would be more likely tosee ta.
So, by sorting all (ta, tb) pairs by p(ta|tb)in descending order, top-ranked pairs are morelikely to have subsumption relations.In this work, we present three methods to esti-mate the probability p(ta|tb), using tag-tag, tag-word and tag-reason co-occurrences respectively.By using tag-word and tag-reason co-occurrences,we leverage the content of the annotated docu-ment for subsumption relation discovery.3.2.1 Tag-Tag Co-occurrences ApproachThe most intuitive way to estimate p(ta|tb) isvia tag-tag co-occurrences.
Specifically, we usethe following formula:p(ta|tb) =Nd(ta, tb)Nd(tb), (1)where Nd(ta, tb) is the number of documents thatare annotated by both ta and tb, and Nd(tb) is thenumber of documents annotated by tb.
We de-note the tag-tag co-occurrences approach as TAG-TAG.The use of TAG-TAG can be found in previousliterature for organizing tags for photos(Schmitz,2006).
One of TAG-TAG?s benefits is that it doesnot rely on the content of the annotated document,thus it can be applied to tags for non-text objects,such as images and music.
However, when com-ing to text documents, this benefit is also a short-coming, that TAG-TAG makes no use of the con-tent when it is available.Using TAG-TAG for subsumption relation dis-covery relies on an implication, that if a user hasannotated d with tb, he would also annotate alltags that subsumes tb.
The implication may notalways hold in real world situations.
For example,1013a novel reader would use tags such as scifi andmystery to organize his collections, but he is notlikely to annotate each of his collection as novelor book, since they are too obvious for him.
Wename the problem as the omitted-tag problem.3.2.2 Tag-Word Co-occurrences ApproachWhen the content of the annotated documentis available, using it for estimating p(ta|tb) is anatural thought.
The content is expected to becomplete and information-rich whether or not theuser has omitted any tags.
We use the follow-ing formula to estimate p(ta|tb) by tag-word co-occurrences:p(ta|tb) =?w?Wp(ta|w)p(w|tb)=?w?WNd(ta, w)Nd(w)Nd(tb, w)Nd(tb), (2)where Nd(ta, w) is the number of documents thatcontains both tag ta and word w, and Nd(w) isthe number of documents that contains the wordw.
We denote this approach as TAG-WORD.Instead of computing tag-tag co-occurrencesdirectly, TAG-WORD uses words in the documentas a bridge to estimate p(ta|tb).
By introduc-ing words, the estimation is less affected by theomitted-tag problem, Take the novel reader exam-ple again: Although he does not use the tag noveltoo often, the words in book descriptions wouldsuggest the using of novel, according to all otherdocuments annotated by novel.While using the content may weaken theomitted-tag problem, it also brings the noise intext to the estimation.
Not every word in the con-tent is related to one of the tags.
To the oppo-site, most words are functional words or that aboutother aspects of the document.
p(ta|tb) estimatedby using all words may largely depends on theseirrelevant words.3.2.3 Tag-Reason Co-occurrences ApproachTo focus on the words that are highly relevantto the interested tags, we propose the third methodthat uses tag-reason co-occurrences.
The reason isdefined as the word(s) that can explain the usingof a tag in the document.
For example, the tagscifi for a book could be explained by the words?robot?, ?Asimov?
in the book description.
If thereason of each tag could be identified, the noise incontent-based p(ta|tb) could be reduced.Si et al (2010) proposed a probabilistic modelfor content-based social tags, named Tag Allo-cation Model (TAM).
TAM introduces a latentvariable r for each tag in the data set, knownas the reason variable.
The value of r can be aword in the corresponding document, or a globalnoise variable ?.
Allowing the reason of tags tobe a global noise makes TAM deal with content-irrelevant tags and mistakenly annotated tags ef-fectively.
The likelihood that a document d is an-notated by tag t is given as:p(t|d) =?w?dp(t|r = w)p(r = w|d)p(s = 0)+ p(t|?
)p(r = ?
)p(s = 1), (3)where r is the reason of the tag t, r ?
{wdi|i ?
[0, |d|]} ?
{?
}, ?
is the global noise variable.
s isthe source of reason t, s = 0 means the source isthe content of the document, while s = 1 meansthe source is the global noise variable ?.
TAMcan be trained use Gibbs sampling method.
Forthe details of TAM, please refer to (Si and Sun,2010).With a trained TAM, we can infer p(t|r), theprobability of seeing a tag t when using r as thereason, and p(r|t), the probability of choosing ras the reason for tag t. With these probabilities,we can estimate p(ta|tb) byp(ta|tb) =?r?Wp(ta|r)p(r|tb).
(4)Note that we use only word reasons (r ?
W ),ignoring the noise reason ?
completely.
We de-note this approach as TAG-REASON.With the help of TAM, TAG-REASON cov-ers the problems of the TAG-WORD method intwo aspects: First, instead of using all words,TAG-REASON emphasizes on the really relevantwords, which are the reasons identified by TAM.Second, by ignoring the noise variable ?, TAG-REASON is less affected by the content-irrelevantnoise tags, such as thingstodo or myown.After p(ta|tb) is estimated for each (ta, tb) ?T ?T , we use the top-n pairs with largest p(ta|tb)1014Figure 2: DAG and Layered-DAGas the final set of discovered subsumption rela-tions.4 Remove Redundancy withLayered-DAG ConstructionThe discovered subsumption relations connect alltags into a directed graph G = {V,E}, where Vis the set of nodes, with each node is a tag; E isthe set of edges, an edge eta,tb from ta to tb meansta ?s tb.
Furthermore, we define the weight ofeach edge we as the probability p(ta|tb).Recalling that subsumption relation has transi-tivity property, to avoid the cyclic references in G,we would like to turn G into a Directed AcyclicGraph (DAG).
Further, DAG may also containsredundant information.
Figure 2 (a) shows a partof a DAG.
Note the edge marked as ?
*?, whichis perfectly correct, but does not provide extrainformation, since literature ?s novel andnovel?s scifi-novel have already implied thatliterature?s novel.
We would like to removethese redundant relations, turning a DAG into theform of Figure 2 (b).We define Layered-DAG formally as follows:For a DAG G, when given any pair of nodes, if ev-ery path that can connect them has equal length, Gis a Layered-DAG.
Layered-DAG prohibits edgesthat link cross layers, such like edge ?*?
in Fig-ure 2 (a).
Constructing a Layered-DAG from thediscovered relations can eliminate the redundantinformation.Given a set of subsumption relations, multipleLayered-DAGs may be constructed.
In particular,we want to find the Layered-DAG that maximizesthe sum of all edges?
weights.
Weight maximiza-tion implies two concerns: First, when we needto remove a relation to resolve the conflicts or re-dundancy, the one with lower weight is prefered.Layered-DAG Construction AlgorithmInput: A set of weighted relations, R = {ta ?s tb|ta ?
T, tb ?
T},wta?stb > 0Output: A Layered-DAG of tags G?
= {V ?, E?
}1: V ?
= {}2: while R 6= ?3: if V ?
= ?4: choose ta ?s tb ?
R with highest weight.5: E?
?
ta ?s tb6: V ?
?
ta, V ?
?
tb.7: remove ta ?s tb from R.8: else9: C ?
{ta ?s tb|ta ?s tb ?
R, {ta, tb} ?
V ?
6= ?
}10: for ta ?s tb ?
C in descending weight order11: if adding ta ?s tb to G?
keeps G?
a Layered-DAG.12: E?
?
ta ?s tb13: V ?
?
ta, V ?
?
tb.14: break15: endif16: remove ta ?s tb from R.17: endfor18: endif19: endwhile20: output G?Figure 3: A greedy algorithm for constructingLayered-DAG of tagsSecond, when more than one valid Layered-DAGsare available, we want to use the one that containsas many edges as possible.Finding and proving an optimal algorithm formaximum Layered-DAG construction are beyondthe scope of this paper.
Here we present a greedyalgorithm that works well in practice, as describedin Figure 3.The proposed algorithm starts with a minimalLayered-DAG G?
that contains only the high-est weighted relation in R (Steps 1-8).
Then, itmoves an edge in G to G?
once a time, ensuringthat adding the new edge still keeps G?
a validLayered-DAG (Step 11), and the new edge has thehighest weights among all valid candidates (Steps9-10).5 ExperimentsIn this section, we show the experimental resultsof proposed methods.
Specifically, we focus onthe following points:?
The quality of discovered subsumption rela-tions by different methods.?
The characteristics of wrong subsumption re-lations discovered.?
The effect of Layered-DAG construction onthe quality of relations.?
Empirical study of the resulted Layered-DAG.1015Name N N?tag N?contentBLOG 100,192 2.78 332.87BOOK 110,371 8.51 204.76Table 1: Statistics of the data sets.
N is the num-ber of documents.
N?tag is the mean number oftags per document.
N?content is the mean numberof words per document.5.1 Data SetsWe use two real world social tagging data sets.The first data set, named BLOG, is a collectionof blog posts annotated by blog authors, whichis crawled from the web.
The second data set,named BOOK, is from a book collecting and shar-ing site2, which contains description of Chinesebooks and user contributed tags.
Table 1 lists thebasic statistics of the data sets.The two data sets have different characteristics.Documents in BLOG are longer, not well written,and the number of tags per document is small.
Tothe opposite, documents in BOOK are shorter butwell written, and there are more tags for each doc-ument.5.2 Discovered Subsumption Relations5.2.1 Experimental SettingsFor BLOG, we use the tags that have been usedmore than 10 times; For BOOK, we use the tagsthat have been used more than 50 times.
We per-form 100 iterations of Gibbs sampling when train-ing the TAM model, with first 50 iterations asthe burn-in iterations.
All the estimation meth-ods require proper smoothing.
Here we use ad-ditive smoothing for all methods, which adds avery small number (0.001 in our case) to all rawcounts.
Sophisticated smoothing method could beemployed, but is out of the scope of this paper.5.2.2 EvaluationWe use precision and coverage to evaluate thediscovered relations at any given cut-off thresholdn.
First, we sort the discovered relations by theirweights in descending order.
Then, we take thetop-n relations, discarding the others.
For the re-maining relations, precision is computed as Nc/n,Nc is the number of correct relations in the top-n2http://www.douban.comlist; coverage is computed as Nt/|T |, where Nt isthe number of unique tags appeared in the top-nlist, and |T | is the total number of tags.To get Nc, the number of correct relations, weneed a standard judgement of the correctness ofrelations, which involves human labeling.
To min-imize the bias in human assessment, we use pool-ing, which is a widely accepted method in Infor-mation Retrieval research (Voorhees and Harman,2005).
Pooling works as follows: First, relationsobtained by different methods are mixed together,creating a pool of relations.
Second, the pool isshuffled, so that the labeler cannot identify thesource of a single relation.
Third, annotators arerequested to label the relations in the pool as cor-rect or incorrect, based on the definition of sub-sumption relation.
After all relations in the poolare labeled, we use them as the standard judge-ment to evaluate each method?s output.Precision measures the proportion of correct re-lations, while coverage measures the proportion oftags that are connected by the relations.
The cut-off threshold n affects both precision and cover-age: the larger the n, the lower the precision, andthe higher the coverage.5.2.3 Baseline methodsBesides TAG-TAG, TAG-WORD and TAG-REASON, we also include the method describedin (Heymann and Garcia-Molina, 2006) as abaseline, denoted as HEYMANN.
HEYMANNmethod was designed to find similar-to relationrather than subsumption relation.
The similar-torelation is symmetric, while subsumption relationis more strict and asymmetric.
In our experiments,we use the same evaluation process to evalu-ate TAG-TAG, TAG-WORD, TAG-REASON andHEYMANN, in which only subsumption relationswill be marked as correct.5.2.4 ResultsFor each method, we set the cut-off thresholdn from 1 to 500, so as to plot the psrecision-coverage curves.
The result is shown in Figure 4.The larger the area under the curve, the better themethod?s performance.We have three observations from Figure 4.First, TAG-REASON has the best performance101600.20.40.60.810  0.05  0.1  0.15  0.2  0.25  0.3  0.35  0.4PrecisionCoverageTAG-REASONTAG-TAGTAG-WORDHEYMANN(a) BLOG00.20.40.60.810  0.05  0.1  0.15  0.2  0.25  0.3  0.35PrecisionCoverageTAG-REASONTAG-TAGTAG-WORDHEYMANN(b) BOOKFigure 4: The precision and coverage of TAG-TAG, TAG-WORD, TAG-REASON and HEYMANNmethods.
The larger the area under the curve, the better the result.
The cut-off threshold n ?
[1, 500].BLOG BOOKInsufficient Reversed Irrelevant Insufficient Reversed Irrelevantchildedu?s father stock?s security travel?sbuilding textbook?s exam English?s foreignlang japan?slightnovelchildedu?s grandma stock?s financial emotion?stime history?s military biography?speople building?stextbookemotion?swarm delicious?staste emotion?soriginal piano?sscores jpbuilding?s jpculture sales?sOchildedu?schild delicious?sfood culture?sspring history?sculture novel?spureliterature japan?s showereducation?schild earthquake?sdisaster poem?snight novel?slove ancientgreek?sgreek photo?sumbrellaTotal 52% Total 14% Total 34% Total 37% Total 48% Total 15%Table 2: Examples of mistakes and the percentage of each mistake type.on both data sets: On the BOOK data set, TAG-REASON outperforms others by a marked mar-gin; On the BLOG data set, TAG-REASON hashigher precision when coverage is smaller (whichmeans within top-ranked relations), and has com-parable precision to TAG-TAG when coverageincreases.
Second, similarity-based clusteringmethod (namely HEYMANN) performed worsethan others, suggesting it may not be adequate fordiscovering subsumption relation.
Third, whilealso using content information, TAG-WORD per-forms poorer than both TAG-REASON and TAG-TAG, which suggests that noise in the contentwould prevent TAG-WORD from getting the cor-rect estimation of p(ta|tb).To summarize, by leveraging relevant con-tent, TAG-REASON could discover better sub-sumption relations than just using tag-tag co-occurrences and similarity-based hierarchicalclustering.5.2.5 Mistakes in Discovered RelationsWe also studied the type of mistakes in sub-sumption relation discovery.
To our observation, amistakenly discovered relation ta ?s tb falls intoone of the following categories:1. insufficient ta relates with tb, but using tbdoes not implies the using of ta in all cases.2.
reversed tb ?s ta is correct, while ta ?s tbis not.3.
irrelevant There is no obvious connectionbetween ta and tb.We collected all incorrect relations discoveredby the TAG-REASON method.
Then, the type ofmistake for each relation is labeled manually.
Theresult is shown in Table 2, along with selected ex-amples of each type.Table 2 shows different error patterns forBLOG and BOOK.
In BLOG, most of themistakes are of the type insufficient.
Taking?education?s child?
for example, annotating adocument as child does not imply that it is aboutchild education, it may about food or clothes fora child.
In BOOK, most of the mistakes are re-versed mistakes, which is a result of the omitted-tag problem discussed in Section 3.2.1.1017Figure 5: Part of the constructed Layered-DAG from the BOOK data set.BLOG BOOKMethod Precision Coverage Precision CoverageTAG-TAG ?4.7% +7.9% ?7.4% +12.5%TAG-WORD 0% 0% ?9.0% +2.2%TAG-REASON ?3.6% +5.4% ?0.9% +5.4%Table 3: The effects on precision and coverage byLayered-DAG construction5.3 Layered-DAG ConstructionUsing the algorithm introduced in Section 4, weconstructed Layered-DAGs from the discoveredrelations.
Constructing Layered-DAG will re-move certain relations, which will decrease theprecision and increase the coverage.
Table 3shows the changes of precision and coveragebrought by Layered-DAG construction.
In mostof the cases, the increasing of coverage is morethan the decreasing of precision.As a representative example, we show part ofa constructed Layered-DAG from the BOOK dataset in Figure 5, since the whole graph is too big tofit in the paper.
All tags in Chinese are translatedto English.6 Conclusion and Future WorkIn this paper, we explored the structure of socialtags by discovering subsumption relations.
First,we defined the subsumption relation ta ?s tbas ta can be used to replace tb without ambigu-ity.
Then, we cast the subsumption relation iden-tification problem to the estimation of p(ta|tb).We proposed three methods, namely TAG-TAG,TAG-WORD and TAG-REASON, while the lasttwo leverage the content of document to help esti-mation.
We also proposed an greedy algorithm forconstructing a Layered-DAG from the discoveredrelations, which helps minimizing redundancy.We performed experiments on two real worlddata sets, and evaluated the discovered subsump-tion relations quantitatively by pooling.
Theresults showed that the proposed methods out-perform similarity-based hierarchical clusteingin finding subsumption relations.
The TAG-REASON method, which uses only the relevantcontent to the tags, has the best performance.
Em-pirical study showed that Layered-DAG construc-tion works effectively as expected.The results suggest two directions for futurework: First, more ways for p(ta|tb) estima-tion could be explored, for example, combiningTAG-TAG and TAG-REASON; Second, externalknowledge, such as the Wikipedia and the Word-Net, could be exploited as background knowledgeto improve the accuracy.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThis work is supported by the National ScienceFoundation of China under Grant No.
60873174and the National 863 High-Tech Program of Chinaunder Grant No.
2007AA01Z148.
We also thankDouban Inc.(www.douban.com) for providing theDOUBAN data set, and Shoukun Wang, GuozhuWen et al of Douban Inc. for insightful discus-sion.1018ReferencesAngeletou, S., M. Sabou, L. Specia, and E. Motta.2007.
Bridging the gap between folksonomies andthe semantic web: An experience report.
In Work-shop: Bridging the Gap between Semantic Web andWeb, volume 2.
Citeseer.Begelman, Grigory, Keller, and F. Smadja.
2006.
Au-tomated tag clustering: Improving search and explo-ration in the tag space.
In Collaborative Web Tag-ging Workshop, 15 th International World Wide WebConference.Brooks, Christopher H. and Nancy Montanez.
2006.Improved annotation of the blogosphere via auto-tagging and hierarchical clustering.
In WWW ?06:Proceedings of the 15th international conference onWorld Wide Web, pages 625?632, New York, NY,USA.
ACM.Echarte, F., J. J. Astrain, A. Co?rdoba, and J. Villadan-gos.
2007.
Ontology of folksonomy: A New mod-eling method.
Proceedings of Semantic Authoring,Annotation and Knowledge Markup (SAAKM).Heymann, Paul and Hector Garcia-Molina.
2006.
Col-laborative creation of communal hierarchical tax-onomies in social tagging systems.
Technical Re-port 2006-10, Stanford University, April.Kim, Hak L., Simon Scerri, John G. Breslin, StefanDecker, and Hong G. Kim.
2008.
The state of theart in tag ontologies: a semantic model for taggingand folksonomies.
In DCMI ?08: Proceedings ofthe 2008 International Conference on Dublin Coreand Metadata Applications, pages 128?137.
DublinCore Metadata Initiative.Kome, Sam H. 2005.
Hierarchical subject relation-ships in folksonomies.
Master?s thesis, Universityof North Carolina at Chapel Hill, November.Mika, P. 2005.
Ontologies are us: A unified model ofsocial networks and semantics.
The Semantic Web?ISWC 2005, pages 522?536.Passant, Alexandre.
2007.
Using ontologies tostrengthen folksonomies and enrich information re-trieval in weblogs.
In Proceedings of InternationalConference on Weblogs and Social Media.Sanderson, M. and B. Croft.
1999.
Deriving concepthierarchies from text.
In Proceedings of the 22ndannual international ACM SIGIR conference on Re-search and development in information retrieval,pages 206?213.
ACM.Schmitz, P. 2006.
Inducing ontology from flickrtags.
In Collaborative Web Tagging Workshop atWWW2006, Edinburgh, Scotland, pages 210?214.Citeseer.Schwarzkopf, E., D. Heckmann, and D. Dengler.2007.
In Workshop on Data Mining for User Mod-eling, ICUM?07, page 63.
Citeseer.Shepitsen, Andriy, Jonathan Gemmell, BamshadMobasher, and Robin Burke.
2008.
Personalizedrecommendation in collaborative tagging systemsusing hierarchical clustering.
In Proceedings ofACM RecSys?08.Si, Xiance and Maosong Sun.
2010.
Tag allocationmodel: Modeling noisy social annotations by reasonfinding.
In Proceedings of 2010 IEEE/WIC/ACMInternational Conferences on Web Intelligence andIntelligent Agent Technology.Specia, Lucia and Enrico Motta.
2007.
Integratingfolksonomies with the semantic web.
pages 624?639.Van Damme, C., M. Hepp, and K. Siorpaes.
2007.Folksontology: An integrated approach for turningfolksonomies into ontologies.
Bridging the Gap be-tween Semantic Web and Web, 2:57?70.Voorhees, E.M. and D.K.
Harman.
2005.
TREC: Ex-periment and evaluation in information retrieval.MIT Press.Wu, Harris, Mohammad Zubair, and Kurt Maly.2006a.
Harvesting social knowledge from folk-sonomies.
In HYPERTEXT ?06: Proceedings of theseventeenth conference on Hypertext and hyperme-dia, pages 111?114, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.Wu, Xian, Lei Zhang, and Yong Yu.
2006b.
Exploringsocial annotations for the semantic web.
In WWW?06: Proceedings of the 15th international con-ference on World Wide Web, pages 417?426, NewYork, NY, USA.
ACM.1019
