Coling 2010: Poster Volume, pages 498?506,Beijing, August 2010s???????Tz???????Gz????????Gh???????G??Gt??????????????Gy???Gs???????
?GHayeon JangDept.
of LinguisticsSeoul National Universityhyan05@snu.ac.krHyopil ShinDept.
of LinguisticsSeoul National Universityhpshin@snu.ac.krAbstractIn this paper, we propose language-specific methods of sentiment analysis inmorphologically rich languages.
In con-trast of previous works confined to statis-tical methods, we make use of variouslinguistic features effectively.
In particu-lar, we make chunk structures by usingthe dependence relations of morphemesequences to restrain semantic scope ofinfluence of opinionated terms.
In con-clusion, our linguistic structural methodsusing chunking improve the results ofsentiment analysis in Korean news cor-pus.
This approach will aid sentimentanalysis of other morphologically richlanguages like Japanese and Turkish.1 IntroductionThe Internet is a global forum where citizens ofthe world gather to express their opinions.
On-line services exist for users to share their person-al thoughts while the use of blogs and Twittersubstitutes for private diaries.
For this reason,sentiment analysis which automatically extractsand analyzes the subjectivities and sentiments(or polarities) in written texts has recently beenreceiving attention in the field of NLP.Sentiment analysis of English employs vari-ous statistical and linguistic methods referencingsuch linguistic resources as The Berkeley Parserand SentiWordNet.
In the case of Korean, how-ever, most previous works have been confined tostatistical methods which focus either on the fre-quency of words or relevance of co-occurringwords only.
This is because it is hard to findproper resources due to the nature of Korean,exhibiting such features as rich functional mor-phemes, a relatively free word-order and fre-quent deletion of primary elements of sentenceslike the subject and object.
The major drawbacksof statistical-based approaches are the facts thatthe ?real?
meaning of the expressions which wefeel when we read them cannot be reflected inthe analysis, and that complex statistical measur-ing methods are computationally taxing.In this paper, in order to overcome previousshortcomings, while making use of Korean casestudies we propose a new approach for morpho-logically rich languages that makes effective useof linguistic information such as the semanticclasses of words, semantic scope of negationterms like not, no, and the functional meaning ofmodal affixes.
Especially, this approach makeschunk structures by using dependency relation ofmorpheme sequences to limit the semantic scopeof influence of opinionated terms.
This chunkingmethod is simpler and more efficient than totalsyntactic parsing.
In addition, we utilize subjec-tivity clues and contextual shifters whose effec-tiveness is established in previous references.The contents of this paper are as follows:firstly, we review previous works related to ourapproaches.
We follow up by introducing theframework and main processes of our approachare introduced.
Finally, we describe our experi-ments and show how a linguistic approach isfeasible in sentiment analysis of Korean as amorphologically rich language.2 Related WorkSentiment analysis research has been performedto distinguish the authors?
polarity (sentimentorientation) on certain topics from document-level (Turney, 2002: Pang et al, 2002; Dave etal., 2003) to sentence-level (Hu and Liu, 2004;498Kim and Hovy, 2004).
We will focus on sen-tence-level sentiment classification with our pre-supposition that the polarity of sentences in asingle document can be diversified due to theinclusion of various subtopics.Recently, much research has focused on sub-jectivity1 extraction that divides objective factsfrom subjective opinions in data.
Pang and Ri-loff (2005) and Yu and Hatzivassiloglou (2003)trained sentence-level subjectivity classifiers andproved that performing sentiment analysis tar-geting selected subjective sentences only getshigher results.
We adopt a method of Wiebe andRiloff (2005)?s methods which classifies sen-tences containing more than two lexical itemsassociated with subjectivity and compare theresult of the experiments on full and extractedsubjective corpora.The core of the proposed new approach is theuse of structural information in morphologicallyrich languages in the process of sentiment analy-sis.
Choi et al (2005) and Mao and Leba-non(2006) are representative of the structuredsentiment analysis approach which takes advan-tage of Conditional Random Fields (CRF) todetermine sentiment flow.
McDonald et al(2007) also dealt with sentiment analysis, via theglobal joint-structural approach.
Furthermore,since there are a lot of good parsers for Englishdata, Meena and Prabhakr (2007) and Liu andSeneff (2009) utilized sentiment structure infor-mation by such parsers such as Berkeley Parser.1 The term ?subjectivity?
is equivalent to Quick et al(1985)?s private state which was defined as the words andphrases expressing individual mental and emotional states.In the case of Korean, much research appliesdependency grammars for reducing the complex-ity of sentences to match the characteristics ofKorean (Kim and Lee, 2005; Nam et al, 2008)but this still causes problems which prohibitwide use.
Therefore we suggest a new morpho-logical chunking method that binds semanticallyrelated concatenations of morphemes.
This helpsto define boundaries of semantic scopes of opi-nionated terms and is faster, simpler and moreefficient on sentiment analysis than a general fullparser.Our approach focuses on the role of contex-tual shifters as well.
In this paper, the term ?con-textual shifter?
covers both negation shifters andflow shifters: the former refers to the termswhich can change semantic orientation of otherterms from positive to negative and vise versa,the latter the terms which can control sentimentflow in sentences, for example, in English not,nobody (negation shifters), however, but (flowshifters).
Kennedy and Inkpen (2006) did senti-ment analysis of movie and product reviews byutilizing the contextual shifter information.Miyoshi and Nakagami (2007) also used thismethod to see the advancement of the result onsentimental analysis of electric product reviewsin Japanese.
In this work, we make use of thefunctions of each shifter to properly modify thevalue of the terms in the sentences and limit thenumber of the features which have to be ob-served in the analysis process to increase effi-ciency.Figure 1.
Sentiment Analysis Framework4993 Sentiment Analysis FrameworkThe process of sentiment analysis in this paper isdescribed in Figure 1.
In this section, we explaineach step of the process in detail.3.1 Morphological AnalysisKorean is an agglutinative language where rootsand affixes which have their own functionalmeaning combine to form complete words.
Con-sequently, sufficient morphological analysis isvery important to catch the precise and deepmeaning of such expressions.
If a certain sen-tence is misunderstood by wrong morphologicalanalysis, there will be a strong possibility thatopinionated terms in the sentence cannot be cor-rectly analyzed.We used the KTS 2  which is open-sourceprobability based Korean morphological analyz-er.
Although the probabilistic rules established inKTS are elaborate, the main source of inaccura-cy is rooted in the inadequacy of the lexicon.After categorizing all listed words in the sen-tence, the remaining words are mostly classifiedas general nouns.
In this case, the terms whichshould play a role as important features in theprocess of sentiment analysis will be probablymisunderstood.
(1) ??
???
?
?nemu cinpuha-n nayyongtoo  stale-AD3  content?too stale contents?
(2) ?
?/a   ?
?/ncs  ?/xpanemu/a4 cinpu/ncs ha/xpa?/exm ?
?/ncn/exm nayyong/nc(3) ?/npp ?
?/nc ?/ncne/npp mucin/nc pu/nc?/nc ?
?/nchan/nc nayyong/nc2 http://kldp.net/projects/kts/3 Abbrebiates: AD(adnominal suffix), NM(nominativeparticle), IN(instrumental particle), SC(subordinativeconjuctive suffix), CP(conjunctive particle), PST(pasttense suffix), DC(declarative final suffix), RE(retrospect-ive suffix), CN(conjectural suffix), PR(pronoun), PP(pr-opositive suffix), AC(auxiliary conjunctive suffix), GE(genitive particle)4 POS tags of KTS: a(adverb), ncs(stative common noun),xpa(adjective-derived suffix), exm(adnominal suffix),nc(common noun), npp(personal pronoun)?you Mujin(place name)wealth resentment con-tents?For example, if sentence (1) which has to beanalyzed as in (2) is incorrectly analyzed as in(3).
This fault result ignores original spacing andrandomly conjoins syllables in order to find thelexical items included in the dictionary becauseof the lack of lexicon.
As the result, we cannotgrasp the intended sentiment cinbu ?stale?
in re-spect to the object nayyong ?contents?
in the sen-tence.
In order to solve such problems, we ex-panded the lexicon of KTS by adding 53,800lexical items which are included in the Sejong5dictionary.3.2 Subjectivity and Polarity TaggingNews corpora have no marks representing polar-ity of sentences as exist in the grading systemsfound in movie review corpora.
In addition newsdata contain relatively more objective sentenceswhich corpora tend to refer to as facts, as com-pared with reviews.
Therefore in the case ofnews corpora there is a need to process the anno-tation of subjectivity and polarity tags for eachsentence manually.In our work, two native Korean annotatorsmanually attached polarity labels to each sen-tence.
Sentences are classified as subjectivewhen they contain opinions pertaining to a cer-tain object.
Even if the opinion is not expressedon the surface using direct sentiment terms, thesentences are classified as subjective when theannotator can feel the subjectivity through thetone of voice.
In the case of sentences containingcommon sense polarity value words such as do-nation, murder, etc, terms do not work as thejudgment criterion, rather the annotator?s judg-ment about the main theme of the sentence isapplied.
Only when the sentences are classifiedas subjective, the polarity tags are attached.
Theagreement rate of the two annotators in the ma-nual annotation of polarity is 71%.5 The 21 st century Sejong Project is one of the Korean in-formation policies run by the Ministry of Culture andTourism of Korea.
The project was named after King Se-jong the Great who invented Hangeul.
(http://www.sejong.or.kr/)5003.3 Subjectivity ExtractionThe subjective lexicon used in subjectivity ex-traction contains 2,469 lexical items which in-cludes 1,851 nouns, 201 verbs, 247 adjectives,124 adverbs, 44 suffixes, and 2 conjunctive par-ticles.
The lemmas of Sejong dictionary are clas-sified by a total of 581 semantic classes.
Amongthem are 23 subjectivity-related semantic classeswhich include Abusive Language, ExternalMental State, Internal Mental State etc.
Firstly,we have registered those lexical items ?nouns,adjectives, verbs- under subjectivity-related se-mantic classes.
Since they will be compared withmorphologically analyzed data before subjectivi-ty classification, all items were registered astagged forms.
Nouns took the biggest portion inthe lexicon through this process, since adjectivesand verbs which consist respectively of stativenouns (ncs) and active nouns (nca) plus derivedsuffixes (xpa, xpv) were all registered as nouns.In Korean, sentiment can also be judged fromparticles and affixes having modal meaning.(4)???
?????
????3???
??
?.jengpwu-ka mwuungtap-ulotayungha-nci 3il-ina   cina-ss-ta.Government-NM no response-INaction-SC    3days-CP  pass-PST-DC?It already passed 3 days af-ter government did not re-sponse?
(5) ?
???
?
?????????
?.ku paywu-ka an-nao-ass-te-lamyen coh-ass-ltheynteythe actor-NM not-star-PST-RE-if nice-PST-CN?It were nice, if the actorwould not have starred themain character?
(6) ??
??
????
?.ku-ke   cengmal masiss-ess-keyss-tathat-PR  really delicious-PST-CN-DC?That must have been reallydelicious?For example, conjunctive particle -(i)na in thesentence (4), final suffix -ltheyntey in (5), andpre-final suffix -keyss in (6) are very influentialin judging the subjectivity of sentences.
There-fore, we added those functional terms in the sub-jective lexicon.We classified the sentences which containsmore than two subjective items as subjective.When the sentence contained less than five mor-phemes, however, we manage to judge the sen-tence as subjective even when only one subjec-tive item shows.
The result of subjectivity ex-traction is confirmed by the widely used statis-tical method, TFIDF, in the following section.3.4 Term WeightingIn our process of sentiment analysis, every termgets its own values by using polarity dictionariesand contextual shifters.
In this section we intro-duce our polarity dictionary and contextual shif-Label Number of items Lexical itemsPositive 2,285 (1838 nouns, 133 verbs , 314 ad-jectives)Coh/pa ?good?, kelcak/nc ?masterpiece?,chincel/ncs ?kind?Negative 2,964 (2300 nouns, 359 verbs , 305 ad-jective)Nappu/pa ?bad?, ssuleki/nc ?trash?,koylophi/pv ?harass?Cynical 21 (adverbs) celday/a ?Never?, kyeu/a ?barely?Intensifier 91 (80 adverbs, 10 nouns, 1 interjections)acu/a ?very?, hancung/a ?more?,tanyeonkho/a ?decisively?Conjectural 19 (13 final suffixes, 4 pre-final suffixes,2 adnominal suffixes)keyss/efp  CN, lthenteyo/ef CN,l/exm CNObligative 6 (4 final suffixes,  2 auxiliary conjunc-tive suffixes)eya/ecx ?must?, eyacyo/ef PPQuotative 5 (final suffixes) ntanunkun/ef  DC, tayyo/ef DCTable 1.
Polarity Dictionary501ters, and their lexical items.
Also, the term-weighting methods of our approach is described.Polarity dictionary:  Table 1 shows our po-larity dictionary used in sentiment classification.In the same way as a subjective lexicon, all lexi-cal items are registered in the shape of a taggedmorpheme.
In addition, every item has labelswith its own functional categories.First, Positive and Negative refer to the basicpolarity value of individual terms of sentences.The terms that are neither positive nor negativeare classified as neutral.
We registered nouns,adjectives and verbs included in Sejong dictio-nary?s semantic class related with emotion orevaluation such as Positive Property Human,Negative Property Human, etc.
After that, weselected the terms that are generally used to ex-press polarity from other review corpora andadded them to the dictionary.
Since we deal withon-line texts, we also added acronyms, neolog-isms and new words which are frequently usedto express opinion online.Next we add various functional lexical itemsthat are from other parts of speech to the polaritydictionary.
Cynical items play a role of addingnegative nuance to sentences.
Intensifiers em-phasize the meaning of following expressions.Conjectural, Obligative and Quotative items re-fer to something other than the author?s opinion.Conjectural and Obligative means that the opi-nion included in the expressions is not actual buthypothetical.
Quotative means that opinionatedterms which are in same phrase express anotherperson?s opinions.To determine the value of the terms, our ap-proach uses a very simple measuring method.Every term initially gets +1 if Positive, -1 ifNegative.
All other words receive a value of 0.In the next step, the contexts of the sentences areexamined and the values are modified.
In thecase of simple classification which does not gothrough the chunking process, we consider thedistance of content words in Korean sentenceswhich have various auxiliaries and affixes, andset a [-2, +2] window.
In the case of structuralclassification, we take advantage of structuresmade by chunking.
If Positives and Negativesare neighboring, we modify the values of theterms to reflect the fact that they influence eachother.
When Cynical items appear with Positives,we multiply by -1 to the value of Positives.When Cynicals appear with Negative items, weintensify the value of Negative by multiplyingby 2.
If Cynicals appear with neutral terms, wechange the value of neutral terms to -1.
The val-ue of the terms which are affected by the Inten-sifier doubles, whereas the values of the termswhich are in the scope of Conjectural, Obligativeand Quotative items are reduced to half.
In thisway we control the importance of the terms inthe sentence.Contextual Shifters: contextual shifters inKorean consist of 13 negation shifters (adverbssuch as an/a ?not?, mos/a ?cannot?
and  auxiliaryverbs such as anh/px ?not?, mal/px ?stop?)
and 23flow shifters (sentence-conjunctive adverbs suchas kulena/ajs, haciman/ajs ?but, though?, subor-dinative conjuctive suffixes pnitaman/ecs,ntey/ecs CN and conjunctive suffixes such aseto/ecx AC).Since negation shifters play the role of shift-ing the polarity of the sentiment terms in ourapproach, we multiply them by -1.
In the case offlow shifters, we limit the number of features tothe terms after the shifter appears.
We deemed itmore important to understand an author?s empa-thetic point, rather than to catch full sentimentflow in the sentences.
Also such emphasizedcontents mostly exist after the flow shifters.Therefore we utilize this characteristic to reducethe work load and to prevent confusions whichare caused by other minor sentiment terms.
(7) ???
??
???
????????
???
?.umak-to  coh-ko yengsang-tocoh-ass-nuntey sutholi-kapyello-yess-tamusic-also good-CN image-also good-CN story-NM notso good-PST-DC?music was good and image al-so good though, story isnot so good,?For example, in the sentence (7) -nuntey func-tions as a flow shifter.
Dealing with the wordsafter ?nuntey, we can limit the object mor-phemes to 5 out of 14.
Therefore, measuringload is significantly reduced, and furthermore,we can prevent the confusion from two positiveterms coh ?good?
before the flow shifter.5023.5 Chunking using morphological depen-dency relationIn our approach, instead of complete syntacticparsing we use a chunking method based on thedependency relation of morpheme sequences interms of the provision that it is important to limitthe semantic influential scopes of main opinio-nated expressions.Korean is a head-final language: in terms ofdependency grammar, governors are always lo-cated after their dependents.
We reflect upon thischaracteristic to form a relation if a certain mor-pheme acts as the governor of a previous mor-pheme.
Chunks (small and mid nodes shown infigure 2.)
are formed until an unrelated mor-pheme appears.
The terms in a single chunk ex-ert great semantic influence to control the valueof each other.
After determining the values ofevery morpheme in each chunk, this process isreplicated at a higher level and finally the ulti-mate values of every term in the sentence aredetermined.For example in Figure 2, the structure[[chen+nyen]+uy] [seywel+i] [hulu+eto][kkuthna+ci+anh+nun] [miwan+uy] [sarang]is the result of the chunking process of the sen-tence chen-nyen-uy seywel-i hulu-eto kkuthna-cianh-nun miwan-uy salang 1000-year-GE time-NM flow-CN finish-CN not-AD incomplete-GElove ?an incomplete love that has not finishedeven after 1000 years?.
If we focus on the termsafter the flow shifter -eto, the negation shifteranh ?not?
in the first phrase only influences theverb kkuthna- ?finish?
in the same chunk.
Thislimitation of semantic scope of the negation shif-ter eliminates the possibility that it excessivelymodifies the values of other unrelated elements.Since the simple classification has a [-2, +2]window, miwan ?incomplete?
is also influencedby -anh.
Then the value of miwan becomes +1which is classified as a positive term, and thewhole expression miwan-uy salang ?an incom-plete love?
is misclassified as positive.4 Experiment4.1 CorporaSince movie review data is commonly used forsentiment analysis, we primarily collected moviereviews.
Following the comments of many pre-vious works that it is hard to separate the sen-tences which mention the plot of movies fromopinion sentences, especially short movie re-views which containing 1~2 sentences delibe-rately selected.
The reason is that short reviewshaving limited space probably include opinionsonly.
Movie review data of less than 20 charac-ters was crawled from a representative moviesite in Korea, Cine216.
It contains 185,405 re-views ranging from December 31, 2003 to De-cember 28, 2009 (total 19.5MB).Next, we collected 79,390 news articles fromJanuary 1, 2009 to April 7, 2010 (total146.6MB) from the web site of the daily news-paper, The Hankyoreh7.
The news data includesboth objective and subjective sentences, and iscategorized into 3 groups by the following cha-racteristics: 71,612 general news articles, 3,743opinionated news articles having subjective sub-topics such as ?Yuna Kim, terrorism, etc.?
and3,432 editorial articles including columns andcontributions.
After randomly extracting 100articles from each data group a Korean annotatorattached subjectivity and polarity labels to each6 http://www.cine21.com/7 http://www.hani.co.kr/Figure 2.
Chunking structure of the below sentence.
(A short movie reviews)??????????????????
?chen-nyen-uy seywel-i hulu-eto kkuthna-ci anh-nun miwan-uy salang1000-year-GE time-NM flow-CN finish-CN not-AD incomplete-GE love?an incomplete love that has not finished even after 1000 years?503sentence.
The collection of sample sentencesconsists of 1,225 general news sentences, 1,185subtopic news sentences and 2,592 sentences ofeditorial articles.4.2 Experiment 1: Short Movie ReviewsTable 2 shows the result of a 5-fold cross varia-tion experiment on the sentiment analysis ofshort movie review data using SVMlight.
Thenumbers in bold face are the values being largerthan the baseline, the results using TFIDF.
Asubjectivity extraction experiment was not car-ried out because of the presumption that all mov-ie reviews used in this work are subjective.
(There were a few reviews containing quotesfrom the movies or meaningless words only.Such cases, however, were ignored.)
In the caseof movie review data, selected subjective data isregarded as having stronger subjectivity.When subjective data is compared with totaldata by the same experimental methods, thereare consistent improvements in sentiment analy-sis for the subjective data.
It is no surprise thatthe sentences that contain a more intense level ofsubjectivity can be easily classified as correctpolarity.In addition, contrary to our expectations, theapplication of the simple classification method(NO chunking) gets the higher results in compar-ison with the structural classification method(YES chunking) regardless of the use of contex-8 F-measure = 2*precision*recall/(precision+recall)tual shifters.
This phenomenon can be analyzedbased on the limited length of reviews and thecharacteristics of online data.
First, most sen-tences have a simple structure like the sequenceof nouns or noun phrases due to restricted writ-ing space.
For this reason, the effect of chunkingand contextual shifters on sentiment classifica-tion is insignificant.
Second, the data includesvarious terms only seen on the Internet, vulgar-isms and ungrammatical words.
Furthermore,there are the problems of word spacing and spel-ling.
Because of these drawbacks of online data,morphological analysis errors frequently oc-curred.
The errors are further propagated tostructures as a result of chunking.
For this reason,when the chunking method is used, contextualshifters are ineffective at all as shown the resultsusing the chunking method in Table 1.4.3 Experiment 2: News articlesSubjectivity Extraction: The results of a 5-foldcross variation experiment of subjectivity extrac-tion using SVMlight are described in Table 3.
Inthis experiment, we use the commonly used sta-tistical method TFIDF to compare total data withsubjective data in the three groups in the subjec-tivity classification task.
In conclusion, the cho-sen subjective data of all groups get higher re-sults.
Especially in the cases of news articles andsubtopic news articles which are less subjectivethan editorial articles, F-measure value is greatlyincreased.Table 2.
Sentiment analysis of short movie review corporaMethodtotal subjectiveAccuracy (%) F-measure8 (%) Accuracy F-measureTFIDF 87.67 93.431 90.02 94.748NO chunking NO shifter 87.676 93.432 90.034 94.757NO chunking YES shifters 87.674 93.433 90.018 94.745YES chunking NO shifter 83.212 90.835 87.29 93.214YES chunking YES shifters 83.212 90.835 87.29 93.214Method Data Accuracy (%) F-measure (%)TFIDFNews articlesTotal 63.032 28.532Subjective 82.00 89.919Subtopic NewsarticlesTotal 61.95 32.287Subjective 73.332 84.44Editorial articlesTotal 57.53 73.04Subjective 87.23 93.18Table 3.
Subjectivity extraction of news corpora504Sentiment Analysis: The results of sentimentanalysis on the three groups of news data aresummarized in Figure 3.
The white points inFigure 3 are the values being larger than thebaseline, the results using TFIDF.First of all, all of our proposed classificationmethods get higher results than TFIDF, except inthe case of F-measure of subjective News data.This shows that using language-specific featureswhich inflect the target language?s linguisticcharacteristics well, without complex mathemat-ical measuring techniques, we could get betterresults than statistical methods in sentiment clas-sification.Secondly, similar to the result of movie re-view corpora, mostly subjective data showsgreatly improved results in experimental me-thods overall.
This means that our subjectivityextraction works successfully.Finally, in contrast to the results of experi-ment 1, we get higher values of sentiment classi-fication by using chunking and contextual shif-ters.
This implies that the restriction on semanticscope of opinionated terms and the methods re-ducing features and properly modifying valuesof polarity terms by using contextual shiftersalso have merits in sentiment analysis of datasuch as news which has complex sentence struc-ture like news.
Furthermore, this tendency is no-ticeable particularly in the subjective data of allthree groups.
This confirms the effectiveness ofutilizing linguistic methods in subjectivity ex-traction and sentiment analysis for news datawhich tries to maintain objectivity.5 Discussion and Further WorkIn this paper, we verified that simple measure-ments utilizing language-specific features canimprove the results of sentiment analysis.
Partic-ularly the chunking method using morphologicaldependency relations and the lexicon which con-tains suffixes and particles having importantfunctional meanings is expected to aid the sen-timent analysis of other agglutinative languagessuch as Turkish and Japanese.
In addition, thisapproach of sentiment analysis can be applied tovarious applications for extracting important in-formation on the Internet to monitor a certainbrand?s reputations or to make social network forpeoples who have similar opinions.We have plans to confirm the results of thispaper by experiments on corpora which are ex-panded in size and type in future work.
We willalso increase the number of lexical items of sub-jectivity lexicon and polarity dictionary.
Fur-thermore, we will utilize other linguistic infor-mation such as synonym lists of Korean ontolo-gy and elaborate measuring methods using lin-guistic-specific features of morphologically richlanguages effectively.Figure 3.
Sentiment analysis of  news corpora505ReferencesChoi, Y., C. Cardie, E. Riloff, and S. Patwardhan.2005.
Identifying sources of opinions with condi-tional random fields and extraction patterns.
InProceedings of the HLT/EMNLP.Dave, K., S. Lawrence, and D. M. Pennock.
2003.Mining the peanut gallery: Opinion extraction andsemantic classification of product reviews.
In Pro-ceedings of the WWW-2003.Hu, Minqing, and Bing Liu.
2004.
Mining and sum-marizingcustomer reviews.
In Proceedings of theKDD.Kennedy, A., and D. Inkpen.
2006.
Sentiment Classi-fication of Movie and Product Reviews UsingContextual Valence Shifters.
Computational Intel-ligence, 22(2):110?125.Kim, Mi-Yong, and Jong-Hyeok Lee.
2005.
SyntacticAnalysis based on Subject-Clause Segmentation.In Proceedings of the KCC 2005, 32(9):936-947.In Korean.Kim, S. M., and E. Hovy.
2004.
Determining the sen-timent of opinions.
In Preceeding of the COLING.Liu, Jingjing, and Stephanie Seneff.
2009.
Reviewsentiment scoring via a parse-and-paraphrase para-digm.
In Proceedings of the 2009 Conference onEmpirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing, 1(1).Mao, Y., and G. Lebanon.
2006.
Isotonic conditionalrandom fields and local sentiment flow.
In Pro-ceedings of the NIPS.McDonald, R., K. Hannan, T. Neylon, M. Wells, andJ.
Reynar.
2007.
Structured Models for Fine-to-Coarse Sentiment Analysis.
In Proceedings of the45th Annual Meeting of the Association of Compu-tational Linguistics, 432?439.Meena, Arun, and T. V. Prabhakar.
2007.
SentenceLevel Sentiment Analysis in the Presence of Con-juncts Using Linguistic Analysis.
Lecture Notes inComputer Science, 573-580.
Springer.Nam, Sang-Hyub, Seung-Hoon Na, Yeha Lee, Yong-Hun Lee, Jungi Kim, and Jong-Hyeok Lee.
2008.Semi-Supeervised Learning for Sentiment PhraseExtraction by Combining Generative Model andDiscriminative Model.
In Proceedings of theKCC(Korea Computer Congress) 2008, 35(1):268-273. in Korean.Pang, Bo, Lillian Lee, and Shivakumar Vaithyana-than.
2002.
Thumbs up?
Sentiment classificationusing machine learning techniques.
In Proceedingsof the ACL-2002 conference on Empirical methodsin natural language processing, 10.Pang, Bo, and Lillian Lee.
2004.
A sentimental edu-cation: Sentiment analysis using subjectivity sum-marization based on minimum cuts.
In Proceed-ings of the ACL-2004.Polanyi, Livia, and Annie Zaenen.
2004.
Contextualvalence shifters.
In Proceedings of the AAAI Sym-posium on Exploring Attitude and Affect in Text:Theories and Applications.Ptaszynski, Michal, Pawel Dybala, WenhanShi, Rafal Rzepka, and Kenji Araki.
2010.
Contex-tual affect analysis: a system for verification ofemotion appropriateness supported with Contex-tual Valence Shifters.
International Journal ofBiometrics, 2(2):134-154.Quirk, R., S. Greenbaum, G. Leech, and J. Svartvik.1985.
A Comprehensive Grammar of the EnglishLanguage.
Longman, New York.Riloff, Ellen, and Janyce Wiebe.
2003.
Learning ex-traction patterns for subjective expressions.
InProceedings of the 2003 Conference on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing, 105-112.Tetsuya, Miyoshi, and Nakagami Yu.
2007.
Senti-ment classification of customer reviews on electricproducts.
In Proceeding of the IEEE InternationalConference on Systems Man and Cybernetics,2028-2033.Turney, P. D. 2002.
Thumbs up or thumbs down?Semantic orientation applied to unsupervised clas-sification of reviews.
In Proceedings of the 40thAnnual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics (ACL'02), 417-424.Wiebe, Janyce, Theresa Wilson, Rebecca Bruce, Mat-thew Bell, and Melanie Martin.
2004.
Learningsubjective language.
Computational Linguistics,30(3).Wiebe, Janyce, and E. Riloff.
2005.
Creating subjec-tive and objective sentence classifiers from unan-notated texts.
In Proceedings of the CICLing 2005,486-497.Wilson, Theresa, Janyce Wiebe, and Paul Hoffmann.2005.
Recognizing Contextual Polarity in Phrase-Level Sentiment Analysis.
In Proceedings of theHLT/EMNLP, 347-354.Yu, H., and Hatzivassiloglou V. 2003.
Towards ans-wering opinion questions: Separating facts fromopinions and identifying the polarity of opinionsentences.
In Proceedings of EMNLP, 32.506
