Coling 2010: Demonstration Volume, pages 41?44,Beijing, August 2010Antelogue: Pronoun Resolution for Text and DialogueEleni MiltsakakiUniversity of Pennsylvaniaelenimi@seas.upenn.eduAbstractAntelogue is a pronoun resolution prototype de-signed to be released as off-the-shelf software tobe used autonomously or integrated with largeranaphora resolution or other NLP systems.
It hasmodules to handle pronouns in both text and dia-logue.
In Antelogue, the problem of pronoun reso-lution is addressed as a two-step process: a) acquir-ing information about properties of words and theentities they represent and b) determining an algo-rithm that utilizes these features to make resolutiondecisions.
A hybrid approach is implemented thatcombines known statistical and machine learningtechniques for feature acquisition and a symbolicalgorithm for resolution.1 IntroductionPronoun resolution is the well-known problem ofidentifying antecedents for pronominal referencesin text or dialogue.
We present a prototype ofnew system for pronoun resolution, Antelogue,that handles both text and dialogues.
In our ap-proach, pronoun resolution is done in two steps:a) feature acquisition of properties of words andthe entities they represent and b) resolution algo-rithm.
We adopt a hybrid approach to the problem,using statistical and machine learning techniqueswidely available in the NLP literature to collectfeatures and a symbolic algorithm informed byprior research in anaphora resolution and modelsof entity salience to appropriately rank and evalu-ate antecedents.The design and architecture of Antelogue ismodular and flexible and will soon be releasedfor off-the-shelf use as an independent compo-nent or for possible integration of larger anaphoraresolution systems, such as the GuiTAR (Gen-eral Tool for Anaphora Resolution) (Poesio andKabadjov, 2004) that currently is released with(Mitkov et al, 2002)?s statistical pronoun resolu-tion algorithm, MARS, that processes pronouns intext.
Motivation for building a new algorithm fortext and dialogues has been the problem of align-ment between caption dialogues and stage direc-tions on one hand and video content in movies onthe other.
While pronoun resolution in stage direc-tions proved to be a fairly easy task, in dialogueswe are facing the following challenges:1.
Part of speech taggers trained on text (typicallythe Wall Street Journal texts of Penn Treebank)perform poorly on dialogues, primarily due to thefragmented nature of spoken language.
As a resultNP tags are overgenerated.2.
Fragmentary speech and disfluencies or falsestarts common in dialogues cannot be handled byparsers trained on text.3.
First and second person pronouns are common.Special algorithms are needed to handle them.4.
Special addressee patterns need to be identifiedto block first and second person named references(e.g., ?Hey, John, where did he go??)
becomingantecedents for third person pronouns.5.
In dialogues, pronouns can be used for ref-erence to people or objects that are visually butnot textually accessible.
Special algorithms areneeded to identify when an antecedent is notpresent in the text.6.
Pronouns are used for reference to people orobjects that are visually salient in the scene but notmentioned explicitly in the dialogue, i.e., there areno textual antecedents.7.
Multi-party dialogues, sometimes 3rd personpronouns are used to refer to other speakers.
It ishard to identify when an instance of a 3rd personpronoun has an antecedent in the prior discourse41or another speaker.In what follows, we present the system?s de-sign and architecture and the components thathave already been implemented.
In the demo, theusers will be able to use Antelogue?s GUI to entertheir own data and evaluate the system?s perfor-mance in real time.
The current version handlesfirst, second, and third person singular pronouns,including a classification recognizing referentialand non-referential instances of ?it?.
Anteloguedoes not, yet, handle plural pronouns or recognizeimpersonal uses of singular ?you?.ResourceProcessorResourceProcessorResourceProcessorInput textAntelogue RepositoryPronoun ResolutionXML-annotationE-GridrepresentationResource Resource ResourceFigure 1: General System Architecture2 System designThe problem of pronoun resolution is addressedas a two-step process: a) acquiring informationabout properties of words and the entities theyrepresent and b) determining an algorithm that uti-lizes these features to make resolution decisions.A hybrid approach is implemented that combinesknown statistical and machine learning techniquesfor feature acquisition and a symbolic algorithmfor resolution.For the feature acquisition step, any numberof feature acquisition sub-modules can be imple-mented.
The architecture is flexible such that newfeature acquisition modules can be added as theymay become available or deemed crucial for spe-cific applications.
The demo version acquires fea-tures from a sentence tokenizer, word tokenizer,NER tagger, gender and number database andPOS tagger.
For every sub-module a correspond-ing parser analyzes the output of the submodulesto retrieve the features and store them in the Ante-logue repository.The resolution step implements an algorithmfor utilizing the features in the repository to makeresolution decisions.
The resolution module needsto communicate only with the repository to getfeature information and outputs xml annotatedtext or, what we call, e-grid output in which pro-nouns have been replaced by their antecedents.
Ifthe identified antecedent is a pronoun, it is fur-ther looked-up until a non-pronominal antecedentis found.
A pronominal antecedent is shown onlyin case there is no nominal antecedent available.The architecture of Antelogue is illustrated inFig.
1.
Antelogue can be set to perform pro-noun resolution in both dialogue and text.
A pre-processing step is required to ensure that the filesare in the appropriate format.
Because Anteloguewas built to perform pronoun resolution in the di-alogues and stage directions of screenplays, thepre-processing steps required to extract dialoguesand text from the TV seriesLost, are available.3 System architectureFeature acquisition Sentence and word tok-enization: built based on (Ratnaparkhi, 1996).To address dialogue idiosyncrasies, sentence to-kenization is forced to respect speaker turns thusblocking forming sentences across speaker turns.Word processor.
This module processes the wordtokenized file and creates an indexed entry for ev-ery word in the Antelogue repository.Named Entity Recognizer tagging (NER): We in-tegrated Stanford?s NER tagger (Finkel et al,2005).NER processor.
This module processor the NERtagged file and associates identified NER tagswith the corresponding words in the Anteloguerepository.Gender and Animacy processor: This modulescollects gender information from the gender cor-pus1 (Bergsma and Lin, 2006) and checks a self-1http://www.cs.ualberta.ca/?bergsma/Gender.42made corpus for profession (teacher, doctor, etc)and family relations (mother, father, etc), ex-tracted from web searches.
In the gender corpus,gender and number data are collected statisticallyand are not always reliable.
We developed a sim-ple confidence metric to evaluate the reliability ofthe gender and number data.
If the ratio of thehighest probability to the sum of all other proba-bilities is lower than 60% we mark gender or num-ber unknown.2 Part-of-speech tagging (POS).
Wetrained (Ratnaparkhi, 1996)?s POS tagger on di-alogue data obtained from the English CTS Tree-bank with Structural Metadata released by LDC in2009.
POS parser.
This modules parses the POS-tagged input and updates the Antelogue reposi-tory.Pronoun resolution The pronoun resolutionsubmodule, currently, has three submodules: a)first and second person pronouns, b) third personsingular masculine and feminine pronouns, and c)third person singular neuter pronouns.For the first and second person pronouns, Ante-logue identifies and resolves all instances of ?I?
tothe speaker name and all instances of ?you?
to thenext speaker.
It there is no other speaker (when?you?
is in the last turn), the algorithm will pickthe speaker from the previous turn.
If there is noprevious turn, it is declared unresolvable.For the third person ?he?
and ?she?
module, thealgorithmAntelogue searches for pronouns back-wards starting at the last sentence of the dialogue.For every sentence we construct a list of potentialantecedents identified as nouns or pronouns by thePOS tagger.
A number of filters, then apply, to fil-ter out incompatible antecedents.
A category ofincompatible antecedents for ?he?
and ?she?
thatis almost unique to dialogues are addressee ref-erences.
We identify references to addressee us-ing surface punctuation features.
Resolution startswith a look-up at antecedents of the current sen-tences, processing them from left-to-right.
If thefirst antecedent is identified in the human cor-pus and has compatible gender information, it ispicked.
If not, the gender corpus is searched forreliable matches.
Once a match is identified, it2(Charniak and Elsner, 2009)?s system ?learns?
gender in-formation using Expectation Maximization.is filtered by NER.
The gender corpus often as-signs feminine or masculine gender to commonnouns.
Only those entities that have a NER tagpass the compatibility test.
If no compatible an-tecedent is found in the current sentence, Antel-ogue continues search in the previous sentence.
Ifthe dialogues have scene boundaries, as the caseis in Lost, the search for an antecedents stops ata scene boundary.
Otherwise it will not stop be-fore the first sentence of the dialogue is reached.If no compatible antecedent is found, it is declared?unresolvable?.
Correctly declaring pronouns un-resolvable is extremely useful in dialogues, espe-cially from movies, in which a referent of a thirdperson pronoun may be visually available but notintroduced in the prior discourse.
Correctly un-resolvable feminine and masculine pronouns sig-nal a cue for search in the visuals scene, a cross-modal direction that we are pursuing as part of fu-ture work.For the third person ?it?, we first need to ad-dress the issue of identifying referential and non-referential instances of ?it?.3 Non-referential in-stances of ?it?
include pleonastic ?it?
(e.g., ?itrains?, or ?it is certain that...?)
and references toa verbal or other clausal antecedent (e.g., ?it?
in?Mary got the award.
It?s wonderful!).
For the?it?
classification task, we follow (Bergsma et al,2008)?
approach.
We generate 4 and 5 word pat-terns out using the found occurrences of ?it?
thenreplace ?it/its?
with ?they/theirs/them?.
Frequen-cies of the substituted versions are computed us-ing data from the Google n-gram corpus.
If substi-tutions with ?they/theirs/them?
are not common,?it?
is classified as non-referential.Antelogue outputs a)an XML file with annota-tions of entities, pronouns and antecedents, andb)an ?e-grid representation file?
in which all pro-nouns have been replaced with their referents.
Inthe XML file, pronouns are either resolved ordeclared unresolvable if no antecedent is identi-fied.
The pronoun ?it?
can, additionally, be de-clared non-referential.
The e-grid representationfile is useful for evaluating text coherence usingthe file directly as input to the (Barzilay and La-pata, 2008)?s e-grid model, a direction we want3For simplicity, we are sloppy here using the term non-referential to mean non-referring to a nominal entity.43to take in the future to explore its strengths inautomatically identifying scene boundaries.
De-spite well-known problems in making meaningfulcomparisons in pronoun resolution systems, An-telogue?s performance is comparable to some ofthe highest reported performances, either identify-ing correctly an antecedent or correctly declaringa pronoun unresolvable or non-referential in 85%of 600 annotated pronouns.Text module: Antelogue?s architecture for re-solving pronouns in text is identical to dialoguesexcept that a)the pre-processing text extracts textfrom the stage directions in the screenplay, b)addressee patterns are not used to filter out an-tecedents for ?he?
and ?she?
and instances of ?I?and ?you?
are ignored.
In the future we plan toimplement resolution of ?I?
and ?you?
as well asa dialogue style resolution of ?he?
and ?she?
forinstances of embedded speech.
These instanceswere extremely rare in our data but they need tobe catered for in the future.
Antelogue?s perfor-mance exceeds 90% for stage directions becausestage directions are relatively simple and fairlyunambiguous.
For this reason, a syntactic parsewhich slows down the system considerably wasnot used.
However, to retain similar levels of per-formance in different domains, the use of syntac-tic parse will be needed.4 Antelogue API and demoAntelogue is implemented in Java.
Its API in-cludes an executable file, an empty database forthe repository and command line instructions forrunning the system.
The dialogue POS tagger isalso available.
The other feature acquisition sub-modules, text POS tagger, NER tagger and gen-der database are publicly available.
Anteloguemakes use of the google n-gram corpus, availablethrough the Linguistic Data Consortium.4As an off-the-shelf application, designed bothfor integration but also for experimentation, eval-uation and comparison with other systems, Ante-logue runs on a single unix command.
The useris prompted to choose the dialogue or text moduleand then is asked to determine the path with the4http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Catalog/CatalogEntry.jsp?catalogId=LDC2006T13data.
Antelogue returns annotated files with re-solved pronouns in seconds for a reasonably sizedfile (approx.
2,000-3,000 words) or in couple ofminutes for very large files.
These processingtime estimates apply to the demo version.
Pro-cessing time will carry depending on the numberof submodule implemented in the feature acquisi-tion step.For the demo, we built a special Graphical UserInterface.
In the left part of the GUI, the user caneither type in his or her own text or dialogue, pastetext or dialogue, or select a local file.
There are se-lections for the text/dialogue mode and xml/e-gridoutputs.
Antelogue performs pronoun resolutionin real time and show the results on the right handside part of the GUI.Acknowledgments: Special thanks to BenTaskar for his help and guidance in this projectand to NSF IIS-0803538 grant for financialsupport.ReferencesBarzilay, R. and M. Lapata.
2008.
Modeling local co-herence: An entity-based approach.
ComputationalLinguistics.Bergsma, S. and D. Lin.
2006.
Bootstrapping path-based pronoun resolution.
In ACL?06, pages 33?40.Bergsma, S., D. Lin, and R. Goebel.
2008.
Distribu-tional identification of non-referential pronouns.
InACL?08, pages 10?18.Charniak, E. and M. Elsner.
2009.
Em works for pro-noun resolution.
In Proceedings of EACL 2009.Finkel, J.R., T. Grenager, and C. Manning.
2005.
In-corporating Non-local Information into InformationExtraction Systems by Gibbs Sampling.
Ann Arbor,100.Mitkov, R., R. Evans, and C. Orasan.
2002.
A new,fully automatic version of Mitkov?s knowledge-poorpronoun resolution method.
Lecture notes in com-puter science, pages 168?186.Poesio, M. and M.A.
Kabadjov.
2004.
A general-purpose, off-the-shelf anaphora resolution module:Implementation and preliminary evaluation.
InProc.
of the 4th International Conference on Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation.
Lisbon, Portugal.Citeseer.Ratnaparkhi, A.
1996.
A maximum entropy modelfor part-of-speech tagging.
In In Proceedings ofEMNLP?96, pages 133?142.44
