Coling 2010: Poster Volume, pages 1480?1488,Beijing, August 2010Metaphor Interpretation and Context-based Affect DetectionLi ZhangSchool of ComputingTeesside Universityl.zhang@tees.ac.ukAbstractMetaphorical and contextual affect de-tection from open-ended text-based di-alogue is challenging but essential forthe building of effective intelligent userinterfaces.
In this paper, we report up-dated developments of an affect detec-tion model from text, including affectdetection from one particular type ofmetaphorical affective expression andaffect detection based on context.
Theoverall affect detection model has beenembedded in an intelligent conversa-tional AI agent interacting with humanusers under loose scenarios.
Evaluationfor the updated affect detection compo-nent is also provided.
Our work contri-butes to the conference themes on sen-timent analysis and opinion mining andthe development of dialogue and con-versational agents.1 IntroductionAffect sensing from open-ended text-basednatural language input is a rising research area.Zhang et al (2008a) reported an affect detectioncomponent on detecting simple and complexemotions, meta-emotions, value judgments etcfrom literal expressions.
Recently, metaphoricallanguage has drawn researchers?
attention sinceit has been widely used to provide effectivevivid description.
Fainsilber and Ortony (1987)commented that ?an important function ofmetaphorical language is to permit theexpression of that which is difficult to expressusing literal language alone?.
In Wallington etal?s work (2008), several metaphorical affectiveexpressions (such as animal metaphor (?X is arat?)
and affects as external entities metaphor(?joy ran through me?))
have been intensivelystudied and affect has been derived from somesimple animal metaphorical expressions.The work presented here reports develop-ments on affect detection from one particularcomparatively complex metaphorical phenome-non with affect implication, i.e.
the cooking me-taphor (?the lawyer grilled the witness on thestand?, ?I knew I was cooked when the teachershowed up at the door?)(http://knowgramming.com/cooking_metaphors.htm).
Since context plays an important role inthe interpretation of the affect conveyed by theuser during the interaction, we have used lin-guistic contextual analysis and cognitive emo-tional modeling based on Markov chain model-ing and a dynamic algorithm to interpret affectfrom context in our application.Our developments have been incorporated in-to an affect detection component, which candetect affect and emotions from literal text inputand has been embedded in an intelligent conver-sational agent, engaged in a drama improvisa-tion with human users under loose scenarios(school bullying and Crohn?s disease).
The con-versational AI agent also provides appropriateresponses based on the detected affect from us-ers?
input in order to stimulate the improvisa-tion.
In both scenarios, the AI agent plays a mi-nor role in drama improvisation.
E.g.
it plays aclose friend of the bullied victim (the leadingrole) in school bullying scenario, who tries tostop the bullying.We have also analyzed affect detection per-formance based on previously collected (other)transcripts from user testing by calculatingagreements via Cohen?s Kappa between twohuman judges and between human judges andthe AI agent with and without the new devel-1480opment respectively in order to verify the effi-ciency of the metaphorical and contextual affectsensing.The content is arranged as follows.
We reportrelevant work in section 2 and the new devel-opments on affect detection from the cookingmetaphor in section 3.
Contextual affect sensingis discussed in section 4.
System evaluation andconclusion are presented in section 5.2 Related WorkThere is well-known research work in the re-lated fields.
ConceptNet (Liu and Singh, 2004)is a toolkit to provide practical textual reasoningfor affect sensing for six basic emotions, textsummarization and topic extraction.
Shaikh etal.
(2007) provided sentence-level textual affectsensing to recognize evaluations (positive andnegative).
They adopted a rule-based domain-independent approach, but they haven?t madeattempts to recognize different affective statesfrom open-ended text input.Although Fa?ade (Mateas, 2002) includedshallow natural language processing for charac-ters?
open-ended utterances, the detection ofmajor emotions, rudeness and value judgementsis not mentioned.
Zhe and Boucouvalas (2002)demonstrated an emotion extraction moduleembedded in an Internet chatting environment.It used a part-of-speech tagger and a syntacticchunker to detect the emotional words and toanalyze emotion intensity for the first person(e.g.
?I?).
The detection focused only on emo-tional adjectives and first-person emotions, anddid not address deep issues such as figurativeexpression of emotion.
There is also work ongeneral linguistic cues useful for affect detec-tion (e.g.
Craggs and Wood, 2004).In addition, there is well-known researchwork on the development of emotional conver-sational agents.
Egges et al (2003) providedvirtual characters with conversational emotionalresponsiveness.
Aylett et al (2006) also focusedon the development of affective behavior plan-ning for their synthetic characters.
Cavazza etal.
(2008) reported on a conversational agentembodied in a wireless robot to provide sugges-tions for users on a healthy living life-style.Hierarchical Task Networks (HTN) planner andsemantic interpretation have been used in thiswork.
The cognitive planner plays an importantrole in assisting with dialogue management.
Theuser?s response has also been considered for thegeneration of a new plan.
However, the systemwill hesitate when open-ended user input goingbeyond the planner?s knowledge has been usedintensively during interaction.
The system wepresent here intends to deal with such challenge.Our work focuses on the following aspects:(1) affect detection from metaphorical expres-sions; (2) real-time affect sensing for basic andcomplex emotions in improvisational role-playsituations; (3) affect detection for second andthird person cases (e.g.
?you?, ?she?
); and (4)affect interpretation based on context profiles.3 Further Development on Metaphori-cal Affect DetectionWithout pre-defined constrained scripts, ouroriginal system has been developed for 14-16year old school students to conduct creative im-provisation within highly emotionally chargedscenarios.
Various metaphorical expressionswere used to convey emotions (K?vecses,1998), which are theoretically and practicallychallenging and draw our attention.Metaphorical language can be used to conveyemotions implicitly and explicitly, which alsoinspires cognitive semanticists (K?vecses,1998).
In our previous study (Zhang et al2008b; 2009), we detected affect from severalcomparatively simple metaphorical affectivephenomena.
Another type of comparativelycomplex metaphor has also drawn our attention,i.e.
the cooking metaphor.
Very often, the agenthimself/herself would become the victim ofslow or intensive cooking (e.g.
grilled, cooked).Or one agent can perform cooking like actionstowards another agent to realize punishment ortorture.
Examples are as follows, ?he basted herwith flattery to get the job?, ?she knew she wasfried when the teacher handed back her paper?.In these examples, the suffering agents havebeen figuratively conceptualized as food.
Theybear the results of intensive or slow cooking.Thus, these agents who suffer from such cook-ing actions carried out by other agents tend tofeel pain and sadness, while the ?cooking per-forming?
agents may take advantage of suchactions to achieve their intentions, such as per-suasion, punishment or even enjoyment.
Thesyntactic structures of some of the above exam-1481ples also indicate the submissive stance of thesuffering agents.
E.g.
in the instances, passivesentences (?he knew he was cooked when hesaw his boss standing at the door?)
have beenused to imply unwillingness and victimizationof the subject agents who are in fact the objectsof the cooking actions described by the verbphrases (?X + copular form + passive cookingaction?).
In other examples, the cooking actionshave been explicitly performed by the subjectagents towards the object agents to imply theformer?s potential willingness and enjoymentand the latter?s potential suffering and pain (?A+ [cooking action] + B?
).Thus in our application, we focus on theabove two particular types of expressions.
Weuse Rasp (Briscoe & Carroll, 2002) to recognizeuser input with such syntactic structures (?A +copular form + VVN?, ?A + VV0/VVD/VVZ(verb) + B?).
Many sentences could possesssuch syntactic structures (e.g.
?Lisa was bul-lied?, ?he grills Lisa?, ?I was hit by a car?, ?Li-sa was given the task to play the victim role?, ?Isteamed it?
etc), but few of them are cookingmetaphors.
Therefore we need to resort to se-mantic profiles to recognize the metaphoricalexpressions.
Rasp has also provided a syntacticlabel for each word in the user input.
Thus themain verbs were identified by their correspond-ing syntactic labels (e.g.
?given?
labeled as ?pastparticiple form of lexical verbs (VVN)?, ?likes?and ?grills?
labeled as ?-s form of lexical verbs(VVZ)?)
and the semantic interpretation fortheir base forms is discovered from WordNet(Fellbaum, 1998).
Since WordNet has providedhypernyms (Y is a hypernym of X if every X isa (kind of) Y) for the general noun and verblexicon, ?COOK?
has been derived as thehypernym of the verbs?
described cooking ac-tions.
E.g.
?boil?, ?grill?, ?steam?, and ?simmer?are respectively interpreted as one way to?COOK?.
?Toast?
is interpreted as one way to?HEAT UP?
while ?cook?
is interpreted as oneway to ?CREAT?, or ?CHEAT?
etc.
One verbmay recover several hypernyms and in our ap-plication, we collect all of them.
Another evalu-ation resource (Esuli and Sebastiani, 2006) isresorted to in order to recover the evaluationvalues of all the hypernyms for a particularverb.
If some hypernyms are negative (such as?CHEAT?)
and the main object of the overallinput refers to first/third person cases or singu-lar proper nouns (?him?, ?her?, or ?Lisa?
), thenthe user input (e.g.
?he basted her with flatteryto get the job?)
conveys potential negative af-fect (e.g.
pain and sadness) for the human ob-jects and potential positive affect (e.g.
persua-sion or enjoyment) for the subjects.
If the evalu-ation dictionary fails to provide any evaluationvalue for any hypernyms (such as ?COOK?
and?HEAT UP?)
of the main verbs, then we stillassume that ?verbs implying COOK/HEAT UP+ human objects?
or ?human subjects + copularform + VVN verbs implying COOK/HEAT UP?may indicate negative emotions both for thehuman objects in the former and the human sub-jects in the latter.
E.g.
for the input ?I was friedby the head teacher?, the processing is as fol-lows:1.
Rasp identifies the input has the followingstructure: ?PPIS1 (I) + copular form (was) +VVN (fried)?;2.
?Fry?
(base form of the main verb) is sentto WordNet to obtain its hypernyms, which in-clude ?COOK?, ?HEAT?
and ?KILL?;3.
The input has the following syntactic se-mantic structure: ?PPIS1 (I) + copular form(was) + VVN (Hypernym: COOK)?, thus it isrecognized as a cooking metaphor;4.
The three hypernyms are sent to the evalu-ation resource to obtain their evaluation values.?KILL?
is labeled as negative while others can?tobtain any evaluation values from the profile;5.
The input is transformed into: ?
?PPIS1 (I)+ copular form (was) + VVN (KILL: negative)?6.
The subject is a first person case, then theinput indicates the user who is speaking suf-fered from a negative action and may have a?negative?
emotional state.Although our processing is limited to theverb metaphor examples and hasn?t consideredother instances like ?tasty tidbits of informa-tion?, it points out promising directions for fi-gurative language processing.
After our inten-tion to improve the performance of affect sens-ing from individual turn-taking input, we focuson improvement of the performance using con-text profiles.
In future work, we intend to use ametaphor ontology to recognize metaphors.4 Affect Sensing from Context ProfilesOur previous affect detection (Zhang et al2008a) has been performed solely based on in-1482dividual turn-taking input.
Thus the context in-formation has been ignored.
However, the con-textual and character profiles may influence theaffect implied in the current input.
In this sec-tion, we will discuss relationships between cha-racters, linguistic contextual indicators, cogni-tive emotion simulation from a communicationcontext and our approach developed based onthese features to interpret affect from context.4.1 Relationship InterpretationRelationships between characters in drama im-provisation are very crucial for the contextualaffect interpretation for the emotionally ambi-guous users?
input.
During the improvisation ofeach scenario, like any other drama progression,normally the recorded transcripts for creativeroleplays are composed of three main improvi-sational sections, including the starting of thedrama, the climax and the final ending.
Rela-tionships in these three drama progression stag-es between characters are different from oneanother.
E.g.
in the climax of the improvisationof the school bullying scenario, we normallyexpect very negative relationships between thebully and the bullied victim (Lisa) & her friendssince the big bully is very aggressive at Lisa andher friends who try to stop the bullying.
Moreo-ver, in nearly the end of the improvisational ses-sion, sometimes the big bully feels sorry for hisbehavior and is cared by Lisa and her friendssince he is abused by his uncle.
The intensenegative relationships between the big bully andLisa & her friends are changed to those with atleast less negativity or even normal relation-ships.
Because of the creative nature of the im-provisation, sometimes the bully and the victimmay even have a positive relationship towardsthe ending of the drama improvisation.However in our current study, we only as-sume consistent negative relationships betweenthe bully and the bullied victim & her friendsthroughout the improvisation to simplify theprocessing.
We will report our work on relation-ship interpretation using fuzzy logic to dynami-cally capture the changing relationships be-tween characters as the drama progresses in thenear future.4.2 Linguistic Contextual IndicatorsIn our study, we noticed some linguistic indica-tors for contextual communication in the rec-orded transcripts.
One useful indicator is (i) im-peratives, which are often used to imply nega-tive or positive responses to the previous speak-ing characters, such as ?shut up?, ?go on then?,?let?s do it?
and ?bring it on?.
Other useful con-textual indicators are (ii) prepositional phrases(e.g.
?by who??
), semi-coordinating conjunc-tions (e.g.
?so we are good then?
), subordinatingconjunctions (?because Lisa is a dog?)
andcoordinating conjunctions (?and?, ?or?
and?but?).
These indicators are normally used bythe current ?speaker?
to express further opinionsor gain further confirmation.In addition, (iii) short phrases for questionsare also used frequently in the transcripts to gainfurther communication based on context, e.g.?where?
?, ?who is Dave?
or ?what?.
(iv) Cha-racter names are also normally used in the userinput to indicate that the current input is in-tended for particular characters, e.g.
?Dave goaway?, ?Mrs Parton, say something?, ?Davewhat has got into you??
etc.
Very often, suchexpressions have been used to imply potentialemotional contextual communication betweenthe current speaking character and the namedcharacter.
Therefore the current speaking cha-racters may imply at least ?approval?
or ?disap-proval?
towards the opinions/comments pro-vided by the previous named speaking charac-ters.
Finally there are also (v) some other wellknown contextual indicators in Internet relaychat such as ?yeah/yes followed by a sentence(?yeah, we will see?
)?, ?I think so?, ?no/nah fol-lowed by a sentence?, ?me too?, ?exactly?,?thanks?, ?sorry?, ?grrrr?, ?hahahaha?, etc.Such expressions are normally used to indicateaffective responses to the previous input.Since natural language is ambiguous andthere are cases in which contextual informationis required in order to appropriately interpret theaffect conveyed in the input (e.g.
?go on then?
),our approach reported in the following inte-grates the above contextual linguistic indicatorswith cognitive contextual emotion prediction touncover affect conveyed in emotionally ambi-guous input.4.3 Emotion Modeling in CommunicationContextThere are also other aspects which may influ-ence the affect conveyed in the communicationcontext.
E.g.
in our application, the affect con-1483veyed by the speaking character himself/herselfin the recent several turn-taking, the ?improvisa-tional mood?
that the speaking character iscreated, and emotions expressed by other cha-racters, especially by the contradictory ones(e.g.
the big bully), have great potential to influ-ence the affect conveyed by the current speak-ing character (e.g.
the bullied victim).
Some-times, the story themes or topics also have po-tential impact to emotions or feelings expressedby characters.
For example, people tend to feel?happy?
when involved in discussions on posi-tive topics such as harvest or raising salary,while people tend to feel ?sad?
when engaged inthe discussions on negative themes such aseconomy breakdown, tough examination etc.In our application, although the hidden storysub-themes used in the scenarios are not thatdramatic, they are still highly emotionallycharged and used as the signals for potentialchanges of emotional context for each character.E.g.
In the school bullying scenario (which ismainly about the bully, Mayid, is picking on thenew comer to the school, Lisa.
Lisa?s friends,Elise and Dave, are trying to stop the bullying.The school teacher, Mrs Parton, also tries tofind out what is going on), the director mainlyprovided interventions based on several mainsub-themes of the story to push the improvisa-tion forward, i.e.
?Mayid starts bullying Lisa?,?why Lisa is crying?, ?why Mayid is so nasty/abully?, ?how Mayid feels when his uncle findsout about his behavior?
etc.
From the inspectionof the recorded transcripts, when discussing thetopic of ?why Lisa is crying?, we noticed thatMayid (the bully) tends to be really aggressiveand rude, while Lisa (the bullied victim) tendsto be upset and other characters (Lisa?s friendsand the school teacher) are inclined to showanger at Mayid.
For the improvisation of thehidden story sub-theme ?why Mayid is so nas-ty/a bully?, the big bully changes from rude andaggressive to sad and embarrassed (e.g.
becausehe is abused by his uncle), while Lisa and othercharacters become sympathetic (and sometimescaring) about Mayid.
Usually all characters aretrying to create the ?improvisational mood?
ac-cording to the guidance of the hidden story sub-themes (provided via director?s intervention).Therefore, the story sub-themes could be usedas the indicators for potential emotional contextchange.
The emotion patterns expressed by eachcharacter within the improvisation of each storysub-theme could be very useful for the predic-tion of the affect shown in a similar topic con-text, although the improvisation of the charac-ters is creative within the loose scenario.
It willimprove the performance of the emotional con-text prediction if we allow more emotional pro-files for each story sub-theme to be added to thetraining data to reflect the creative improvisa-tion (e.g.
some improvisations went deeper for aparticular topic).Therefore, a Markov chain is used to learnfrom the emotional context shown in the rec-orded transcripts for each sub-theme and foreach character, and generate other possible rea-sonable unseen emotional context similar to thetraining data for each character.
Markov chainsare usually used for word generation.
In our ap-plication, they are used to record the frequenciesof several emotions showing up after one par-ticular emotion.
A matrix has been constructeddynamically for neutral and the 12 most com-monly used emotions in our application (caring,arguing, disapproving, approving, grateful, hap-py, sad, threatening, embarrassed, angry/rude,scared and sympathetic) with each rowrepresenting the previous emotion followed bythe subsequent emotions in columns.
The Mar-kov chains employ roulette wheel selection toensure to produce a greater probability to selectemotions with higher frequencies than emotionswith lower occurrences.
This will allow thegeneration of emotional context to probabilisti-cally follow the training data, which may reflectthe creative nature of the improvisation.Then a dynamic algorithm is used to find themost resembling emotional context for any giv-en new situation from the Markov chain?s train-ing and generated emotional contexts.
I.e.
byusing the algorithm, a particular series of emo-tions for a particular story sub-theme has beenregarded as the most resembling context to thetest emotional situation and an emotional stateis recommended as the most probable emotionfor the current user input.
Since the most recentaffect histories of other characters and relation-ships between characters may also have an im-pact on the affect conveyed by the speakingcharacter, the recommended affect will be fur-ther evaluated (e.g.
a most recent ?insulting?input from Mayid could make Lisa ?angry?
).1484At the training stage, first of all, the schoolbullying transcripts collected from previous usertesting have been divided into several topic sec-tions with each of them belonging to one of thestory sub-themes.
The classification of the sub-themes is mainly based on the human director?sintervention which was recorded in the tran-scripts.
Then we used two human annotators tomark up the affect of every turn-taking input inthe transcripts using context inference.
Thus, foreach character, we have summarized a series ofemotions expressed throughout the improvisa-tion of a particular story sub-theme.
Since theimprovisation is creative under the loose scena-rio, some of the sub-themes (e.g.
?why Mayid isso nasty?)
have been suggested for improvisa-tion for one than once in some transcripts andsome of the topics (e.g.
?why Lisa is crying?
)are only shown in a few of the collected tran-scripts.
We made attempts to gather as manyemotional contexts as possible for each charac-ter for the improvisation of each sub-theme inorder to enrich the training data.The following is a small portion of one rec-orded transcript used for the training of theMarkov chain.
The human annotators havemarked up the affect expressed in each turn-taking input.DIRECTOR: why is Lisa crying?Elise Brown [caring]: lisa stop cryinLisa Murdoch [disagree]: lisa aint crying!!!
!Dave Simons [caring]: i dunno!
y u cryin li-sa?Mayid Rahim [rude]: cuz she dnt realise sheis lucky to b aliveElise Brown [angry]: beat him up!
itss onliifat..he'll go down straight awayMayid Rahim [insulting]: lisa, y u crying?
ubig baby!Mrs Parton [caring]: lisa, r u ok?For example, the emotional context for May-id from the above example is: ?rude?
and ?insult-ing?
(we use one letter to represent each emo-tional label, thus in this example, i.e.
?R I?
), andin the similar way, the emotional contexts forother characters have been derived from theabove example, which are used as the trainingdata for the Markov chain for the topic ?whyLisa is crying?.
We have summarized the emo-tional context for each story sub-theme for eachcharacter from 4 school bullying transcripts andused them for the training of the Markov chain.The topics considered at the training stage in-clude: ?Mayid starts bullying?, ?why is Lisacrying?, ?why is Mayid nasty/a bully?
and ?howdoes Mayid feel if his uncle knew about his be-havior?
?At the test stage, our affect detection compo-nent, EMMA, is integrated with an AI agent anddetects affect for each user input solely based onthe analysis of individual turn-taking input it-self.
The above algorithms for context-basedaffect sensing will be activated when the affectdetection component recognizes ?neutral?
fromthe current input during the emotionally chargedproper improvisation after all the charactershave known each other and went on the virtualdrama stage.
First of all, the linguistic indicatorsare used to identify if the input with ?neutral?implication is a contextual-based input.
E.g.
wemainly focus on the checking of the five contex-tual implications we mentioned previously, in-cluding imperatives, prepositional phrases, con-junctions, simplified question sentences, charac-ter names, and other commonly used contextualindicators (e.g.
?yeah?, ?I think so?).
If any ofthe above contextual indicators exists, then wefurther analyze the affect embedded in the inputwith contextual emotion modeling reportedhere.For example, we have collected the followingtranscript for testing.
Normally the director in-tervened to suggest a topic change (e.g.
?findout why Mayid is a bully?).
Thus for a testingsituation for a particular character, we use theemotion context attached with his/her user inputstarting right after the most recent director?sintervention and ending at his/her last secondinput, since such a context may belong to oneparticular topic.DIRECTOR: U R IN THE PLAYGROUND(indicating bullying starts)1.
Lisa Murdoch: leave me alone!
[angry]2.
Mayid Rahim: WAT U GONNA DU?
[neu] -> [angry]3.
Mayid Rahim: SHUT UR FAT MOUTH[angry]4.
Elise Brown: grrrrr [angry]5.
Elise Brown: im telin da dinna lady![threatening]6.
Mayid Rahim: go on den [neutral] -> [an-gry]7.
Elise Brown: misssssssssssssssss [neu]8.
Elise Brown: lol [happy]14859.
Lisa Murdoch: mayid u gna gt banned[threatening]10.
Mayid Rahim: BY HU [neu] -> [angry]The affect detection component detected thatLisa was ?angry?
by saying ?leave me alone!?.
Italso sensed that Mayid was ?neutral?
by saying?WAT U GONNA DU (what are you going todo)??
without consideration of context.
FromRasp, we obtained that the input is a simplifiedquestion sentence (a linguistic contextual indi-cator).
Thus, it implies that it could be an emo-tional situation caused by the previous context(e.g.
previous input from Lisa) and the furtherprocessing for emotion prediction is activated.Since we don?t have an emotional context yet atthis stage for Mayid (the very first input fromMayid after the director?s intervention), wecannot resort to the Markov chain and the dy-namic algorithm currently to predict the affect.However, we could use the emotional context ofother characters to predict the affect for Mayid?scurrent input since we believe that an emotionalinput from a character, especially from an op-ponent character, has great potential to affectthe emotions expressed by the current speakingcharacter.In the most recent chat history, there is onlyone input from Lisa after the director?s interven-tion, which implied ?anger?.
Since Lisa andMayid have a negative relationship (pre-definedby character profiles), then we predict Mayidcurrently experiences negative emotion.
Sincecapitalizations have been used in Mayid?s input,we conclude that the affect implied in the inputcould be ?angry?.
However, EMMA could befooled if the affect histories of other charactersfail to provide any useful indication for predic-tion (e.g.
if Lisa implied ?neutral?
in the mostrecent input, the interpretation of the affect con-veyed by Mayid would be still ?neutral?
).EMMA also detected affect for the 3rd, 4th,and 5th user input in the above example (basedon individual turn-taking) until it detected ?neu-tral?
again from the 6th input ?go on den (go onthen)?
from Mayid.
Since it is an imperativemood sentence (a linguistic contextual indica-tor), the input may imply a potential (emotional)response to the previous speaking character.Since we couldn?t obtain the affect embedded inthe imperative purely based on the analysis ofthe input itself, the contextual processing is re-quired.
Thus the emotional context profile forMayid is retrieved, i.e.
[angry (the 2nd input)and angry (the 3rd input)].
The Markov chain isused to produce the possible emotional contextbased on the training data for each sub-themefor Mayid.The following are generated example emo-tional profiles for the sub-theme ?Mayid startsbullying?
for the Mayid character:1.
T A A N A A [?threatening, angry, angry,neutral, angry and angry?]2.
N A A A [?neutral, angry, angry, and an-gry?]3.
D A I A A A N A [?disapproval, angry, in-sulting, angry, angry, angry, neutral, and an-gry?]4.
I A A N [?insulting, angry, angry and neu-tral?
]The dynamic algorithm is used to find thesmallest edit distance between the test emotion-al context [angry and angry] and the trainingand generated emotional context for the Mayidcharacter for each sub-theme.
In the above ex-ample, the second and fourth emotional se-quences have the smallest edit distance (dis-tance = 2) to the test emotional context and theformer suggests ?angry?
as the affect conveyedin the current input (?go on den?)
while the lat-ter implies ?neutral?
expressed in the currentinput.
Thus we need to resort to the emotionalcontext of other characters to justify the rec-ommended affects.
From the chatting log, wefind that Lisa was ?angry?
in her most recentinput (the 1st input) while Elise was ?threaten-ing?
in her most recent input (the 5th input).Since the bully, Mayid, has a negative relation-ships with Lisa (being ?angry?)
and Elise (being?threatening?
), the imperative input (?go onden?)
may indicate ?angry?
rather than ?neutral?.Therefore our processing adjusts the affect from?neutral?
to ?angry?
for the 6th input.In this way, by considering the linguistic con-textual indicators, the potential emotional con-text one character was in, relationships withothers and recent emotional profiles of othercharacters, our affect detection component hasbeen able to inference emotion based on contextto mark up the rest of the above test exampletranscript (e.g.
Mayid being ?angry?
for the 10thinput).
However our processing could be fooledeasily by various diverse ways for affective ex-pressions and creative improvisation (test emo-tional patterns not shown in the training and1486generated sets).
We intend to adopt better emo-tion simulation tools, more linguistic hints, psy-chological (context-based) emotional theoriesfor further improvements.
Also, our processingcurrently only focused on the school bullyingscenario.
We are on our way to extend the con-text-based affect sensing to the Crohn?s diseasescenario to further evaluate its efficiency.5 Evaluation and ConclusionWe carried out user testing with 220 secondaryschool students from Birmingham and Darling-ton schools for the improvisation of school bul-lying and Crohn?s disease scenarios.
Generally,our previous statistical results based on the col-lected questionnaires indicate that the involve-ment of the AI character has not made any sta-tistically significant difference to users?
en-gagement and enjoyment with the emphasis ofusers?
notice of the AI character?s contributionthroughout.
Briefly, the methodology of thetesting is that we had each testing subject havean experience of both scenarios, one includingthe AI minor character only and the other in-cluding the human-controlled minor characteronly.
After the testing sessions, we obtainedusers?
feedback via questionnaires and groupdebriefings.
Improvisational transcripts wereautomatically recorded during the testing so thatit allows further evaluation of the performanceof the affect detection component.Therefore, we produce a new set of results forthe evaluation of the updated affect detectioncomponent with metaphorical and context-basedaffect detection based on the analysis of somerecorded transcripts of school bullying scenario.Generally two human judges (not engaged inany development stage) marked up the affect of150 turn-taking user input from the recordedanother 4 transcripts from school bullying sce-nario (different from those used for the trainingof Markov chains).
In order to verify the effi-ciency of the new developments, we provideCohen?s Kappa inter-agreements for EMMA?sperformance with and without the new devel-opments for the detection of the most common-ly used 12 affective states.
In the school bully-ing scenario, EMMA played a minor bit-partcharacter (Lisa?s friend: Dave).
The agreementfor human judge A/B is 0.45.
The inter-agreements between human judge A/B andEMMA with and without the new developmentsare presented in Table 1.HumanJudge AHumanJudge BEMMA (pre-vious version)0.38 0.30EMMA (newversion)0.40 0.32Table 1: Inter-agreements between humanjudges and EMMA with and without the newdevelopmentsAlthough further work is needed, the new de-velopments on metaphorical and contextual af-fect sensing have improved EMMA?s perfor-mance of affect detection in the test transcriptscomparing with the previous version.The evaluation results indicated that most ofthe improvements (approximately 80%) are ob-tained for negative affect detection based on theinference of context information.
But there arestill some cases: when the two human judgesboth believed that user inputs carried negativeaffective states (such as angry, threatening, dis-approval etc), EMMA regarded them as neutral.One most obvious reason is that some of theprevious pipeline processing (such as dealingwith mis-spelling, acronyms etc, and syntacticprocessing from Rasp etc) failed to recover thestandard user input or recognize the complexstructure of the input which led to less interest-ing and less emotional context and may affectthe performance of contextual affect sensing.
(The work of Sproat et al (2001) can point outhelpful directions on this aspect.)
Currently weachieved 69% average accuracy rate for thecontextual affect sensing for the emotion inter-pretation of all the human controlled charactersin school bullying scenario.
We also aim to ex-tend the evaluation of the context-based affectdetection using transcripts from other scenarios.Moreover, some of the improvements (nearly20%) in the updated affect sensing componentare made by the metaphorical processing.
How-ever, since the test transcripts contained a verysmall number of metaphorical language pheno-mena comparatively, we intend to use other re-sources (e.g.
The Wall Street Journal and othermetaphorical databases (such as ATT-Meta,2008)) to further evaluate the new developmenton metaphorical affect sensing.1487ReferencesATT-Meta Project Databank: Examples of Usage ofMetaphors of Mind.
2008.http://www.cs.bham.ac.uk/~jab/ATT-Meta/Databank/.Aylett, A., Louchart, S. Dias, J., Paiva, A., Vala, M.,Woods, S. and Hall, L.E.
2006.
Unscripted Narra-tive for Affectively Driven Characters.
IEEEComputer Graphics and Applications 26(3).
42-52.Briscoe, E. & Carroll, J.
2002.
Robust Accurate Sta-tistical Annotation of General Text.
In Proceed-ings of the 3rd International Conference on Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation, Las Palmas,Gran Canaria.
1499-1504.Cavazza, M., Smith, C., Charlton, D., Zhang, L.,Turunen, M. and Hakulinen, J.
2008.
A ?Compa-nion?
ECA with Planning and Activity Modelling.In Proceedings of the 7th International Confe-rence on Autonomous Agents and Multi-AgentSystems.
Portugal, 1281-1284.Craggs, R. & Wood, M. 2004.
A Two DimensionalAnnotation Scheme for Emotion in Dialogue.
InProceedings of AAAI Spring Symposium: Explor-ing Attitude and Affect in Text.Egges, A., Kshirsagar, S. & Magnenat-Thalmann, N.2003.
A Model for Personality and Emotion Si-mulation, In Proceedings of Knowledge-Based In-telligent Information & Engineering Systems(KES2003), Lecture Notes in AI.
Springer-Verlag:Berlin, 453-461.Esuli, A. and Sebastiani, F. 2006.
Determining TermSubjectivity and Term Orientation for OpinionMining.
In Proceedings of EACL-06, 11th Confe-rence of the European Chapter of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, Trento, IT.
193-200.Fainsilber, L. and Ortony, A.
1987.
Metaphoricaluses of language in the expression of emotions.Metaphor and Symbolic Activity, 2(4), 239-250.Fellbaum, C. 1998.
WordNet, an Electronic LexicalDatabase.
The MIT press.K?vecses, Z.
1998.
Are There Any Emotion-SpecificMetaphors?
In Speaking of Emotions: Conceptua-lization and Expression.
Athanasiadou, A. andTabakowska, E.
(eds.
), Berlin and New York:Mouton de Gruyter, 127-151.Liu, H. & Singh, P. 2004.
ConceptNet: A practicalcommonsense reasoning toolkit.
BT TechnologyJournal, Volume 22, Kluwer Academic Publish-ers.Mateas, M. 2002.
Interactive Drama, Art and Artifi-cial Intelligence.
Ph.D. Thesis.
School of Com-puter Science, Carnegie Mellon University.Rayson, P. 2003.
Matrix: A statistical method andsoftware tool for linguistic analysis through cor-pus comparison.
Ph.D. thesis, Lancaster Universi-ty.Shaikh, M.A.M., Prendinger, H. & Mitsuru, I.
2007.Assessing sentiment of text by semantic depen-dency and contextual valence analysis.
In Pro-ceeding of ACII 2007, 191-202.Sproat, R., Black, A., Chen, S., Kumar, S., Osten-dorf, M. and Richards, C. 2001.
Normalization ofNon-standard Words.
Computer Speech and Lan-guage, 15(3), 287-333.Wallington, A.M., Agerri, R., Barnden, J.A., Lee,M.G.
& Rumbell, T. 2008.
Affect Transfer byMetaphor for an Intelligent Conversational Agent.In Procs of LREC 2008 Workshop on SentimentAnalysis: Emotion, Metaphor, Ontology and Ter-minology, pp.107-113.
Morocco.Zhang, L., Barnden, J.A.
Hendley, R.J. Lee, M.G.Wallington, A.M. and Wen, Z.
2008a.
Affect De-tection and Metaphor in E-drama.
Int.
J. Continu-ing Engineering Education and Life-Long Learn-ing, Vol.
18, No.
2, 234-252.Zhang, L., Gillies, M. & Barnden, J.A.
2008b.
EM-MA: an Automated Intelligent Actor in E-drama.In Proceedings of International Conference on In-telligent User Interfaces.
13th ?16th Jan 2008.Canary Islands, Spain.
pp.
409-412.Zhang, L., Gillies, M., Dhaliwal, K., Gower, A., Ro-bertson, D. & Crabtree, B.
2009.
E-drama: Facili-tating Online Role-play using an AI Actor andEmotionally Expressive Characters.
InternationalJournal of Artificial Intelligence in Education.Vol 19(1), pp.5-38.Zhe, X.
& Boucouvalas, A.C. 2002.
Text-to-EmotionEngine for Real Time Internet Communication.
InProceedings of International Symposium onCommunication Systems, Networks and DSPs,Staffordshire University, UK, 164-168.1488
