Coling 2010: Demonstration Volume, pages 9?12,Beijing, August 2010Annotation Tool for Discourse in PDTJi??
M?rovsk?, Lucie Mladov?, Zden?k ?abokrtsk?Charles University in PragueInstitute of Formal and applied Linguistics{mirovsky,mladova,zabokrtsky}@ufal.mff.cuni.czAbstractWe present a tool for annotation of se?mantic  inter?sentential  discourse  rela?tions  on  the  tectogrammatical  layer  ofthe  Prague  Dependency  Treebank(PDT).
We present  the way of helpingthe annotators by several useful featuresimplemented in the annotation tool, suchas a possibility to combine surface anddeep  syntactic  representation  of  sen?tences during the annotation, a possibili?ty  to  define,  display and connect  arbi?trary  groups  of  nodes,  a  clause?basedcompact  depiction  of  trees,  etc.
Forstudying differences among parallel an?notations, the tool offers a simultaneousdepiction of parallel  annotations of thedata.1 IntroductionThe  Prague  Dependency  Treebank  2.0  (PDT2.0; Haji?
et al, 2006) is a manually annotatedcorpus of Czech.
It belongs to the most complexend elaborate linguistically annotated treebanksin the world.
The texts  are annotated on threelayers  of  language description:  morphological,analytical (which expresses the surface syntacticstructure),  and  tectogrammatical  (which  ex?presses the deep syntactic structure).
On the tec?togrammatical layer, the data consist of almost50 thousand sentences.For the future release of PDT, many addition?al  features  are  planned,  coming  as  results  ofseveral  projects.
Annotation  of  semantic  in?ter?sentential  discourse  relations  (Mladov?
etal., 2009)1 is one of the planned additions.
The1 It is performed in the project From the structure of a sen?tence to textual relations (GA405/09/0729), as one of sev?goal is not only to annotate the data, but also tocompare the representation of these relations inthe Prague Dependency Treebank with the an?notation done at the Penn Treebank, which wascarried  out  at  University  of  Pennsylvania(Prasad et al, 2008).Manual  annotation  of  data  is  an  expensiveand time consuming task.
A sophisticated anno?tation  tool  can  substantially  increase  the  effi?ciency of the annotations and ensure a higher in?ter?annotator agreement.
We present such a tool.2 Tree  Editor  TrEd  and  the  Annota?tion ExtensionThe primary format of PDT 2.0 is called PML.It is an abstract XML?based format designed forannotation of linguistic corpora, and especiallytreebanks.
Data  in  the  PML  format  can  bebrowsed  and  edited  in  TrEd,  a  fullycustomizable  tree  editor  (Pajas  and  ?t?p?nek,2008).TrEd is completely written in Perl and can beeasily customized to a desired purpose by exten?sions that are included into the system as mod?ules.
In this paper,  we describe the main fea?tures of an extension that has been implementedfor  our  purposes.
The  data  scheme  used  inPDT 2.0 has been enriched too, to support theannotation of the discourse relations.2.1 Features of the Annotation ToolA tool for the annotation of discourse needs tooffer several features:?
creation of a link between arguments ofa relation?
exact specification of the arguments ofthe relationeral tasks.9?
assigning a connective to the relation?
adding additional information to the re?lation (a type, a source, a comment etc.
)Links between arguments:  The annotationof discourse relations in PDT is performed ontop of the tectogrammatical (deep syntactic) lay?er of the treebank.
Similarly to another exten?sion of TrEd, dedicated to the annotation of thetextual  coreference  and the  bridging  anaphora(M?rovsk?
et al, 2010), a discourse relation be?tween nodes is  represented  by  a dedicated  at?tribute  at the initial  node of the  relation,  con?taining a unique identifier of the target node ofthe relation.2 Each relation has two argumentsand is oriented ?
one of the arguments is initial,the other one is a target of the link.
The link isdepicted as a curved arrow between the nodes,see Figure 1.
Although the arrow connects thetwo nodes, it does not mean that the two nodesthemselves equal the two arguments of the rela?tion ?
more about it later.Figure 1.
An arrow represents a link.Additional  information  about  the  relation  isalso  kept  at  the  initial  node  ?
there  is  an  at?tribute for the type, an attribute for the source(who annotated it) and an attribute for a com?ment.Extent of the arguments:  Usually, an argu?ment  of  a  discourse  relation  corresponds  to  asubtree  of a tectogrammatical  tree  and can berepresented simply by the root node of the sub?tree.
However,  there  are  exceptions  to  this2 The data representation allows for several discourse linksstarting at a single node ?
there is a list of structured dis?course elements representing the individual relations.?rule?.
Sometimes it is necessary to exclude apart of the subtree of a node from the argument,sometimes the argument consists of more thanone tree and sometimes it is even impossible toset exactly the borders of the argument.
To al?low for  all  these  variants,  each discourse  linkhas two additional attributes specifying range ofthe initial/target argument (both are stored at theinitial node of the link).
The possible values are:?
?0?
(zero) ?
the argument correspondsto the subtree of the node?
N (a  positive  integer)  ?
the  argumentconsists of the subtree of the node and ofN subsequent (whole) trees?
?group?
?
the argument consists of anarbitrary set of nodes (details below); thisshould only be used if the previous op?tions are not applicable?
?forward?
?
the  argument  consists  ofthe subtree of the node and an unspeci?fied number of subsequent trees; shouldonly be used if more specific options arenot applicable?
?backward?
?
similarly,  the  argumentconsists of the subtree of the node and anunspecified  number  of  preceding  trees;should only be used if more specific op?tions are not applicableGroups: An argument of a discourse relationcan consist of an arbitrary group of nodes, evenfrom  several  trees.
The  fact  is  indicated  in  arange  attribute  of  the  relation  (by  value?group?).
Another  attribute  then  tells  whichgroup it  is.
Groups of nodes inside one docu?ment are identified  by numbers  (positive inte?gers).
Each node can be a member  of severalgroups; a list of identifiers of groups a node be?longs to is kept at the node.
Every group has arepresentative  node  ?
if  a  discourse  linkstarts/ends at a group, graphically it starts/endsat the representative node of the group, which isthe depth?first  node of the group belonging tothe leftmost tree of the group.
Figure 2 shows anexample of a group.
In the example,  the rightson (along with its subtree) of the target node ofthe relation has been excluded from the targetargument of the relation (by specifying the tar?get group of nodes, which is graphically high?lighted).
The right son (and its subtree) is actu?ally the initial argument of the relation.10Figure 2.
A group of nodes.Connectives: A connective of a discourse re?lation  is  represented  as  a  list  of  identifiers  of(usually)  tectogrammatical  nodes  that  corre?spond to the surface tokens of the connective;the list is kept at the initial node of the relation.It is often only one node, sometimes it consistsof several nodes.
However, some tokens (like acolon  ?
?:?)
are  not  represented  on  the  tec?togrammatical  layer  (at  least  not  as  a  node).Therefore, identifiers of nodes from the analyti?cal layer are allowed as well.Collapsed trees: To be able to display moreinformation using less space, a collapsed modeof depicting trees has been implemented.Figure 3.
A collapsed mode of depicting trees.A simple algorithm based on the tectogram?matical  annotation  has  been  employed  to  col?lapse  each  subtree  representing  an  individualclause of the sentence into one node.
Figure 3shows an example of two collapsed trees.Discourse  relations  most  often  start/end  atnodes representing roots of the clauses.
In thoserare  cases  when  the  discourse  relation  shouldlead inside a clause, the annotators can un?col?lapse  the  trees,  create  the  link,  and  collapseback.
Such a link would then be depicted with adotted arrow.Other  features:  The  tool  also  incorporatessome other features that make the annotation ofdiscourse relations easier.
Based on their prefer?ence,  the annotators  can annotate the relationseither on the trees or on the linear form of thesentences in the text window of the tool.
In thesentences,  the  tokens  that  represent  theinitial/target nodes of the relations are highlight?ed and easily visible.2.2 Parallel AnnotationsTo study discrepancies in parallel annotations, amode for depicting parallel annotations exists.
Itcan display annotations of the same data fromtwo or more annotators.
Figure 4 shows parallelannotations from two annotators.
In this exam?ple, the two annotators (?JZ?
and ?PJ?)
agreedon the relation on the top of the figure, they alsomarked the same connective (?Pot??
),  and se?lected the same type of the relation (?preced(?ence)?).
They also agreed on the range of boththe  arguments  (?0?,  i.e.
the  subtrees  of  thenodes).
The other relation (on the left, below thefirst one) has only been recognized by one an?notator (?JZ?
).Figure 4.
Parallel annotations.113 ConclusionFrom the technical point of view, we have de?scribed features of an annotation tool for seman?tic  inter?sentential  discourse  relations  in  thePrague  Dependency  Treebank  2.0.
We  haveshown how it (hopefully in a simple and intu?itive manner) allows for quite complex configu?rations  of  arguments,  and  offers  features  thatmake the annotation easier.
A mode for study?ing  parallel  annotations  has  also  been  imple?mented.Evaluation of such a tool designed for a high?ly specific task is difficult, as the tool does notproduce any direct results (apart from the anno?tated data) and is highly adapted to our ?
giventhe tectogrammatical trees ?
quite unique needs.
(The annotated data themselves, of course, canbe (and have been,  see Zik?nov?
et  al., 2010)evaluated in various ways.)
Bird and Liberman(2001) listed some very general requirements onannotation tools for linguistic corpora, namely:?
generality, specificity, simplicity,?
searchability, browsability,?
maintainability and durability.The first requirement applies both to the an?notation tool and the annotation framework.
Asdescribed e.g.
in Mladov?
et al (2009), the an?notation framework that we use is based on theknowledge obtained from studying various oth?er systems, especially the Penn Discourse Tree?bank (Prasad et al, 2008), but naturally it hasbeen  adjusted  to  specific  needs  of  the  Czechlanguage and PDT.
The inter?connection of oursystem with the tectogrammatical layer of PDThelps  in  some  annotation  decisions,  as  manyambiguities have already been solved in the tec?togrammatical annotation.The second requirement  ?
searchability  andbrowsability  ?
is  very  easily  fulfilled  in  ourframework.
A  very  powerful  extension  forsearching in PML?formatted  data,  called PMLTree  Query,  is  available  in  TrEd  (Pajas  and?t?p?nek, 2009).PML is  a  well  defined  formalism  that  hasbeen  used  extensively  for  large  variations  ofdata  annotation.
It  can be processed automati?cally using btred, a command?line tool for ap?plying Perl scripts to PML data, as well as inter?actively using TrEd.
Therefore, we believe thatour  annotation  framework  and  the  annotationtool fulfill also the third requirement.AcknowledgmentsWe gratefully  acknowledge  support  from  theCzech  Ministry  of  Education  (grant  MSM?0021620838),  and  the  Grant  Agency  of  theCzech  Republic  (grants  405/09/0729  andP406/2010/0875).ReferencesBird S. and M. Liberman.
2001.
A formal frameworkfor linguistic annotation.
Speech Communication33, pp.
23?60.Haji?, J., Panevov?, J., Haji?ov?, E., Sgall, P., Pajas,P.,  ?t?p?nek,  J.,  Havelka,  J.,  Mikulov?,  M.,?abokrtsk?,  Z.,  and  M.
?ev??kov??Raz?mov?.2006.
Prague  Dependency  Treebank  2.0.
CD?ROM,  LDC2006T01,  Linguistic  Data  Consor?tium, Philadelphia, USA.Mladov?,  L.,  Zik?nov?,  ?.,  Bed?ichov?,  Z.,  and E.Haji?ov?.
2009.
Towards a Discourse Corpus ofCzech.
Proceedings of the fifth Corpus LinguisticsConference, Liverpool, UK.M?rovsk?, J.,  Pajas,  P.,  and A.  Nedoluzhko.
2010.Annotation  Tool  for  Extended  Textual  Corefer?ence  and  Bridging  Anaphora.
Proceedings  ofLREC 2010, European Language Resources As?sociation, Valletta, Malta.Pajas, P. and J.
?t?p?nek.
2008.
Recent advances ina feature?rich framework for treebank annotation.Proceedings  of  Coling  2008.
Manchester,  pp.673?680.Pajas, P. and J.
?t?p?nek.
2009.
System for QueryingSyntactically Annotated Corpora.
Proceedings ofthe ACL?IJCNLP 2009 Software Demonstrations,Association  for  Computational  Linguistics,  Sun?tec, Singapore, pp.
33?36.Prasad R., Dinesh N., Lee A., Miltsakaki E., Robal?do L., Joshi A., and B. Webber.
2008.
The PennDiscourse  Treebank  2.0.
Proceedings  of  the  6thInternational Conference on Language Resourcesand Evaluation (LREC 2008), Marrakech.Zik?nov?,  ?.,  Mladov?,  L.,  M?rovsk?,  J.,  and  P.J?nov?.
2010.
Typical Cases  of  Annotators'  Dis?agreement  in  Discourse  Annotations  in  PragueDependency  Treebank.
Proceedings  of  LREC2010, European Language Resources Association,Valletta, Malta.12
