Coling 2010: Poster Volume, pages 1023?1031,Beijing, August 2010Realization of Discourse Relations by Other Means: AlternativeLexicalizationsRashmi Prasad and Aravind JoshiUniversity of Pennsylvaniarjprasad,joshi@seas.upenn.eduBonnie WebberUniversity of Edinburghbonnie@inf.ed.ac.ukAbstractStudies of discourse relations have not, inthe past, attempted to characterize whatserves as evidence for them, beyond listsof frozen expressions, or markers, drawnfrom a few well-defined syntactic classes.In this paper, we describe how the lexical-ized discourse relation annotations of thePenn Discourse Treebank (PDTB) led tothe discovery of a wide range of additionalexpressions, annotated as AltLex (alterna-tive lexicalizations) in the PDTB 2.0.
Fur-ther analysis of AltLex annotation sug-gests that the set of markers is open-ended, and drawn from a wider varietyof syntactic types than currently assumed.As a first attempt towards automaticallyidentifying discourse relation markers, wepropose the use of syntactic paraphrasemethods.1 IntroductionDiscourse relations that hold between the contentof clauses and of sentences ?
including relationsof cause, contrast, elaboration, and temporal or-dering ?
are important for natural language pro-cessing tasks that require sensitivity to more thanjust a single sentence, such as summarization, in-formation extraction, and generation.
In writtentext, discourse relations have usually been con-sidered to be signaled either explicitly, as lexical-ized with some word or phrase, or implicitly dueto adjacency.
Thus, while the causal relation be-tween the situations described in the two clausesin Ex.
(1) is signalled explicitly by the connectiveAs a result, the same relation is conveyed implic-itly in Ex.
(2).
(1) John was tired.
As a result he left early.
(2) John was tired.
He left early.This paper focusses on the problem of how tocharacterize and identify explicit signals of dis-course relations, exemplified in Ex.
(1).
To re-fer to all such signals, we use the term ?discourserelation markers?
(DRMs).
Past research (e.g.,(Halliday and Hasan, 1976; Martin, 1992; Knott,1996), among others) has assumed that DRMsare frozen or fixed expressions from a few well-defined syntactic classes, such as conjunctions,adverbs, and prepositional phrases.
Thus the lit-erature presents lists of DRMs, which researcherstry to make as complete as possible for their cho-sen language.
In annotating lexicalized discourserelations of the Penn Discourse Treebank (Prasadet al, 2008), this same assumption drove the ini-tial phase of annotation.
A list of ?explicit con-nectives?
was collected from various sources andprovided to annotators, who then searched forthese expressions in the text and annotated them,along with their arguments and senses.
The sameassumption underlies methods for automaticallyidentifying DRMs (Pitler and Nenkova, 2009).Since expressions functioning as DRMs can alsohave non-DRM functions, the task is framed asone of classifying given individual tokens as DRMor not DRM.In this paper, we argue that placing such syn-tactic and lexical restrictions on DRMs limitsa proper understanding of discourse relations,which can be realized in other ways as well.
Forexample, one should recognize that the instantia-tion (or exemplification) relation between the twosentences in Ex.
(3) is explicitly signalled in thesecond sentence by the phrase Probably the mostegregious example is, which is sufficient to ex-press the instantiation relation.
(3) Typically, these laws seek to prevent executivebranch officials from inquiring into whether cer-tain federal programs make any economic sense orproposing more market-oriented alternatives to reg-ulations.
Probably the most egregious example is a1023proviso in the appropriations bill for the executiveoffice that prevents the president?s Office of Man-agement and Budget from subjecting agriculturalmarketing orders to any cost-benefit scrutiny.Cases such as Ex.
(3) show that identifyingDRMs cannot simply be a matter of preparing alist of fixed expressions and searching for them inthe text.
We describe in Section 2 how we identi-fied other ways of expressing discourse relationsin the PDTB.
In the current version of the cor-pus (PDTB 2.0.
), they are labelled as AltLex (al-ternative lexicalizations), and are ?discovered?
asa result of our lexically driven annotation of dis-course relations, including explicit as well as im-plicit relations.
Further analysis of AltLex anno-tations (Section 3) leads to the thesis that DRMsare a lexically open-ended class of elements whichmay or may not belong to well-defined syntacticclasses.
The open-ended nature of DRMs is achallenge for their automated identification, andin Section 4, we point to some lessons we havealready learned from this annotation.
Finally, wesuggest that methods used for automatically gen-erating candidate paraphrases may help to expandthe set of recognized DRMs for English and forother languages as well (Section 5).2 AltLex in the PDTBThe Penn Discourse Treebank (Prasad et al,2008) constitutes the largest available resource oflexically grounded annotations of discourse rela-tions, including both explicit and implicit rela-tions.1 Discourse relations are assumed to havetwo and only two arguments, called Arg1 andArg2.
By convention, Arg2 is the argument syn-tactically associated with the relation, while Arg1is the other argument.
Each discourse relation isalso annotated with one of the several senses in thePDTB hierarchical sense classification, as well asthe attribution of the relation and its arguments.In this section, we describe how the annotationmethodology of the PDTB led to the identificationof the AltLex relations.Since one of the major goals of the annota-tion was to lexically ground each relation, a firststep in the annotation was to identify the explicit1http://www.seas.upenn.edu/?pdtbmarkers of discourse relations.
Following stan-dard practice, a list of such markers ?
called ?ex-plicit connectives?
in the PDTB ?
was collectedfrom various sources (Halliday and Hasan, 1976;Martin, 1992; Knott, 1996; Forbes-Riley et al,2006).2 These were provided to annotators, whothen searched for these expressions in the corpusand marked their arguments, senses, and attribu-tion.3 In the pilot phase of the annotation, wealso went through several iterations of updatingthe list, as and when annotators reported seeingconnectives that were not in the current list.
Im-portantly, however, connectives were constrainedto come from a few well-defined syntactic classes:?
Subordinating conjunctions: e.g., because,although, when, while, since, if, as.?
Coordinating conjunctions: e.g., and, but,so, either..or, neither..nor.?
Prepositional phrases: e.g., as a result, onthe one hand..on the other hand, insofar as,in comparison.?
adverbs: e.g., then, however, instead, yet,likewise, subsequentlyEx.
(4) illustrates the annotation of an explicitconnective.
(In all PDTB examples in the paper,Arg2 is indicated in boldface, Arg1 is in italics,the DRM is underlined, and the sense is providedin parentheses at the end of the example.
)(4) U.S. Trust, a 136-year-old institution that is one ofthe earliest high-net worth banks in the U.S., hasfaced intensifying competition from other firms thathave established, and heavily promoted, private-banking businesses of their own.
As a result,U.S.
Trust?s earnings have been hurt.
(Contin-gency:Cause:Result)After all explicit connectives in the list wereannotated, the next step was to identify implicitdiscourse relations.
We assumed that such rela-tions are triggered by adjacency, and (because ofresource limitations) considered only those thatheld between sentences within the same para-graph.
Annotators were thus instructed to supplya connective ?
called ?implicit connective?
?
for2All explicit connectives annotated in the PDTB are listedin the PDTB manual (PDTB-Group, 2008).3These guidelines are recorded in the PDTB manual.1024each pair of adjacent sentences, as long as the re-lation was not already expressed with one of theexplicit connectives provided to them.
This proce-dure led to the annotation of implicit connectivessuch as because in Ex.
(5), where a causal relationis inferred but no explicit connective is present inthe text to express the relation.
(5) To compare temperatures over the past 10,000years, researchers analyzed the changes in concen-trations of two forms of oxygen.
(Implicit=because)These measurements can indicate temperaturechanges, .
.
.
(Contingency:Cause:reason)Annotators soon noticed that in many cases,they were not able to supply an implicit connec-tive.
Reasons supplied included (a) ?there is a re-lation between these sentences but I cannot thinkof a connective to insert between them?, (b) ?thereis a relation between the sentences for which Ican think of a connective, but it doesn?t soundgood?, and (c) ?there is no relation between thesentences?.
For all such cases, annotators wereinstructed to supply ?NONE?
as the implicit con-nective.
Later, we sub-divided these ?NONE?
im-plicits into ?EntRel?, for the (a) type above (anentity-based coherence relation, since the secondsentence seemed to continue the description ofsome entity mentioned in the first); ?NoRel?
(norelation) for the (c) type; and ?AltLex?, for the (b)type, which we turn to next.Closer investigation of the (b) cases revealedthat the awkwardness perceived by annotatorswhen inserting an implicit connective was due toredundancy in the expression of the relation: Al-though no explicit connective was present to re-late the two sentences, some other expression ap-peared to be doing the job.
This is indeed whatwe found.
Subsequently, instances of AltLex wereannotated if:1.
A discourse relation can be inferred betweenadjacent sentences.2.
There is no explicit connective present to re-late them.3.
The annotator is not able to insert an im-plicit connective to express the inferred rela-tion (having used ?NONE?
instead), becauseinserting it leads to an awkward redundancyin expressing the relation.Under these conditions, annotators were in-structed to look for and mark as Altlex, whateveralternative expression appeared to denote the re-lation.
Thus, for example, Ex.
(6) was annotatedas AltLex because although a causal relation is in-ferred between the sentences, inserting a connec-tive like because makes expression of the relationredundant.
Here the phrase One reason is is takento denote the relation and is marked as AltLex.
(6) Now, GM appears to be stepping up the pace of itsfactory consolidation to get in shape for the 1990s.One reason is mounting competition from newJapanese car plants in the U.S. that are pour-ing out more than one million vehicles a yearat costs lower than GM can match.
(Contin-gency:Cause:reason)The result of this procedure led to the annota-tion of 624 tokens of AltLex in the PDTB.
Weturn to our analysis of these expressions in thenext section.3 What is found in AltLex?Several questions arise when considering the Alt-Lex annotations.
What kind of expressions arethey?
What can we learn from their syntax?Do they project discourse relations of a differentsort than connectives?
How can they be identi-fied, both during manual annotation and automat-ically?
To address these questions, we examinedthe AltLex annotation for annotated senses, andfor common lexico-syntactic patterns extractedusing alignment with the Penn Treebank (Marcuset al, 1993).43.1 Lexico-syntactic CharacterizationWe found that we could partition AltLex annota-tion into three groups by (a) whether or not theybelonged to one of the syntactic classes admit-ted as explicit connectives in the PDTB, and (b)whether the expression was frozen (ie, blockingfree substitution, modification or deletion of anyof its parts) or open-ended.
The three groups areshown in Table 1 and discussed below.4The source texts of the PDTB come from the PennTreebank (PTB) portion of the Wall Street Journal corpus.The PDTB corpus provides PTB tree alignments of all itstext span annotations, including connectives, AltLex?s, argu-ments of relations, and attribution spans.1025AltLex Group No (%) ExamplesSyntacticallyadmitted, lexi-cally frozen92 (14.7%) quite the contrary (ADVP), for one thing (PP), as well (ADVP),too (ADVP), soon (ADVP-TMP), eventually (ADVP-TMP),thereafter (RB), even (ADVP), especially (ADVP), actually(ADVP), still (ADVP), only (ADVP), in response (PP)Syntacticallyfree, lexicallyfrozen54 (8.7%) What?s more (SBAR-ADV), Never mind that (ADVP-TMP;VB;DT), To begin with (VP), So (ADVP-PRD-TPC),Another (DT), further (JJ), As in (IN;IN), So what if(ADVP;IN), Best of all (NP)Syntacticallyand lexicallyfree478 (76.6%) That compares with (NP-SBJ;VBD;IN), After these payments(PP-TMP), That would follow (NP-SBJ;MD;VB), The plungefollowed (NP-SBJ;VBD), Until then (PP-TMP), The increasewas due mainly to (NP-SBJ;VBD;JJ;RB;TO), That is why (NP-SBJ;VBZ;WHADVP), Once triggered (SBAR-TMP)TOTAL 624 ?Table 1: Breakdown of AltLex by Syntactic and Lexical Flexibility.
Examples in the third column areaccompanied (in parentheses) with their PTB POS tags and constituent phrase labels obtained from thePDTB-PTB alignment.Syntactically admitted and lexically frozen:The first row shows that 14.7% of the strings an-notated as AltLex belong to syntactic classes ad-mitted as connectives and are similarly frozen.
(Syntactic class was obtained from the PDTB-PTB alignment.)
So, despite the effort in prepar-ing a list of connectives (cf.
Section 1), additionalones were still found in the corpus through AltLexannotation.
This suggests that any pre-defined listof connectives should only be used to guide anno-tators in a strategy for ?discovering?
connectives.Syntactically free and lexically frozen: AltLexexpressions that were frozen but belonged to syn-tactic classes other than those admitted for thePDTB explicit connectives accounted for 8.7%(54/624) of the total (Table 1, row 2).
For exam-ple, the AltLex What?s more (Ex.
7) is parsed asa clause (SBAR) functioning as an adverb (ADV).It is also frozen, in not undergoing any change (eg,What?s less, What?s bigger, etc.5(7) Marketers themselves are partly to blame: They?veincreased spending for coupons and other short-term promotions at the expense of image-buildingadvertising.
What?s more, a flood of new prod-ucts has given consumers a dizzying choice of5Apparently similar headless relative clauses such asWhat?s more exciting differ from What?s more in not func-tioning as adverbials, just as NPs.brands, many of which are virtually carboncopies of one other.
(Expansion:Conjunction)Many of these AltLex annotations do not con-stitute a single constituent in the PTB, as withNever mind that.
These cases suggest that ei-ther the restrictions on connectives as frozen ex-pressions should be relaxed to admit all syntacticclasses, or the syntactic analyses of these multi-word expressions is irrelevant to their function.Both syntactically and lexically free: Thisthird group (Table 1, row 3) constitutes the major-ity of AltLex annotations ?
76.6% (478/624).
Ad-ditional examples are shown in Table 2.
Commonsyntactic patterns here include subjects followedby verbs (Table 2a-c), verb phrases with comple-ments (d), adverbial clauses (e), and main clauseswith a subordinating conjunction (f).All these AltLex annotations are freely modifi-able, with their fixed and modifiable parts shownin the regular expressions defined for them in Ta-ble 2.
Each has a fixed ?core?
phrase shown aslexical tokens in the regular expression, e.g, con-sequence of, attributed to, plus obligatory and op-tional elements shown as syntactic labels.
Op-tional elements are shown in parentheses.
<NX>indicates any noun phrase, <PPX>, any prepo-sitional phrase, <VX>, any verb phrase, and1026AltLex String AltLex Pattern(a) A consequence of their departure could be ... <DTX> consequence (<PPX>) <VX>(b) A major reason is ... <DTX> (<JJX>) reason (<PPX>) <VX>(c) Mayhap this metaphorical connection made ... (<ADVX>) <NX> made(d) ... attributed the increase to ... attributed <NX> to(e) Adding to that speculation ...
Adding to <NX>(f) That may be because ... <NX> <VX> becauseTable 2: Complex AltLex strings and their patterns<JJX>, any adjectival phraseThese patterns show, for example, that othervariants of the identified AltLex A major reasonis include The reason is, A possible reason for theincrease is, A reason for why we should considerDRMs as an open class is, etc.
This is robust sup-port for our claim that DRMs should be regardedas an open class: The task of identifying them can-not simply be a matter of checking an a priori list.Note that the optional modification seen hereis clearly also possible with many explicit con-nectives such as if (eg, even if just if, only if ),as shown in Appendix C of the PDTB manual(PDTB-Group, 2008).
This further supports thethesis that DRMs should be treated as an openclass that includes explicit connectives.3.2 Semantic CharacterizationAltLex strings were annotated as denoting the dis-course relation that held between otherwise un-marked adjacent utterances (Section 2).
We foundthem to convey this relation in much the sameway as anaphoric discourse adverbials.
Accord-ing to (Forbes-Riley et al, 2006), discourse ad-verbials convey both the discourse relation and ananaphoric reference to its Arg1.
The latter may beeither explicit (e.g., through the use of a demon-strative like ?this?
or ?that?
), or implicit.
Thus,both as a result of that and as a result are dis-course adverbials in the same way: the latter refersexplicitly to Arg1 via the pronoun ?that?, whileformer does so via an implicit internal argument.
(A result must be a result of something.
)The examples in Table 2 make this same two?part semantic contribution, albeit with more com-plex expressions referring to Arg1 and more com-plex modification of the expression denoting therelation.
For example, in the AltLex shown in(Table 2c), Mayhap this metaphorical connectionmade (annotated in Ex.
(8)), the relation is de-noted by the causal verb made, while Arg1 isreferenced through the definite description thismetaphorical connection.
In addition, the adverbMayhap further modifies the relational verb.
(8) Ms. Bartlett?s previous work, whichearned her an international reputationin the non-horticultural art world, of-ten took gardens as its nominal subject.Mayhap this metaphorical connection madethe BPC Fine Arts Committee think she had aliteral green thumb.
(Contingency:Cause:Result)These complex AltLex?s also raise the questionof why we find them at all in language.
One part ofthe answer is that these complex AltLex?s are usedto convey more than just the meaning of the rela-tion.
In most cases, we found that substituting theAltLex with an adverbial connective led to someaspect of the meaning being lost, as in Ex.
(9-10).
Substituting For example for the AltLex withan (necessary) accompanying paraphrase of Arg2loses the information that the example provided asArg2 is possibly the most egregious one.
The con-nective for example does not allow similar modi-fication.
This means that one must use a differentstrategy such as an AltLex expression.
(9) Typically, these laws seek to prevent exec-utive branch officials from inquiring intowhether certain federal programs makeany economic sense or proposing moremarket-oriented alternatives to regulations.Probably the most egregious example is a pro-viso in the appropriations bill for the executiveoffice that prevents the president?s Office ofManagement and Budget from subjecting agri-cultural marketing orders to any cost-benefitscrutiny.
(Expansion:Instantiation)(10) For example, a proviso in the appropriations billfor the executive office prevents the president?s Of-1027fice of Management and Budget from subjectingagricultural marketing orders to any cost-benefitscrutiny.Another part of the answer to Why AltLex?
isthat it can serve to convey a relation for which thelexicon lacks an adverbial connective.
For exam-ple, while English has several adverbial connec-tives that express a ?Cause:Consequence?
relation(eg, as a result, consequently, etc.
), it lacks anadverbial connective expressing ?Cause:Reason?
(or explanation) albeit having at least two sub-ordinating conjunctions that do so (because andsince).
Thus, we find an AltLex whenever this re-lation needs to be expressed between sentences, asshown in Ex.
(11).
(11) But a strong level of investor withdrawals ismuch more unlikely this time around, fund man-agers said.
A major reason is that investors al-ready have sharply scaled back their purchasesof stock funds since Black Monday.
(Contin-gency:Cause:reason)Note, however, that even for such relations suchas Cause:Reason, it is still not the case that a list ofcanned expressions will be sufficient to generatethe Altlex or to identify them, since this relationcan itself be further modified.
In Ex.
(12), for ex-ample, the writer intends to convey that there aremultiple reasons for the walkout, although onlyone of them is eventually specified in detail.
(12) In Chile, workers at two copper mines, LosBronces and El Soldado, which belong to theExxon-owned Minera Disputada, yesterday votedto begin a full strike tomorrow, an analystsaid.
Reasons for the walkout, the analyst said,included a number of procedural issues, such asa right to strike.
(Contingency:Cause:reason)4 Lessons learned from AltLexLike all lexical phenomena, DRMs appear tohave a power-law distribution, with some veryfew high-frequency instances like (and, but), ablock of mid-frequency instances (eg, after, be-cause, however), and many many low-frequencyinstances in the ?long tail?
(eg, much as, on thecontrary, in short, etc.).
Given the importanceof DRMs for recognizing and classifying dis-course relations and their arguments, what havewe learned from the annotation of AltLex?First, the number of expressions found throughAltLex annotation, that belong to syntactic classesadmitted as connectives and also similarly frozen(Table 1, row 1) shows that even in the PDTB,there are additional instances of what we havetaken to be explicit connectives.
By recognizingthem and unambiguously labelling their senses,we will start to reduce the number of ?hard cases?of implicit connectives whose sense has to be rec-ognized (Marcu and Echihabi, 2002; Sporlederand Lascarides, 2008; Pitler et al, 2009; Lin et al,2009).
Secondly, the number of tokens of expres-sions from other syntactic classes that have beenannotated as AltLex (Table 1, rows 2 and 3) mayactually be higher than was caught via our Alt-Lex annotation, thus making them even more im-portant for discourse processing.
To assess this,we selected five of them and looked for all theirtokens in the WSJ raw files underlying both thePTB and the PDTB.
After eliminating those to-kens that had already been annotated, we judgedwhether the remaining ones were functioning asconnectives.
Table 3 shows the expressions weused in the first column, with the second and thirdcolumns reporting the number of tokens annotatedin PDTB, and the number of additional tokens inthe WSJ corpus functioning as connectives.
(Theasterisk next to the expressions is a wild card to al-low for variations along the lines discussed for Ta-ble 2.)
These results show that these DRMs occurtwo to three times more frequently than alreadyannotated.Increased frequencies of AltLex occurrence arealso observed in discourse annotation projects un-dertaken subsequent to the PDTB, since they wereable to be more sensitive to the presence of Alt-Lex.
The Hindi Discourse Relation Bank (HDRB)(Oza et al, 2009), for example, reports that 6.5%of all discourse relations in the HDRB have beenannotated as AltLex, compared to 1.5% in thePDTB.
This also provides cross-linguistic evi-dence of the importance of recognizing the fullrange of DRMs in a language.5 Identifying DRMs outside the PDTBAs the set of DRMs appears to be both open-endedand distributed like much else in language, witha very long tail, it is likely that many are miss-ing from the one-million word WSJ corpus anno-tated in the PDTB 2.0.
Indeed, in annotating En-1028AltLex Annotated UnannotatedThe reason* 8 15That?s because 11 16The result* 12 18That/This would* 5 16That means 11 17TOTAL 47 82Table 3: Annotated and Unannotated instances of AltLexglish biomedical articles with discourse relations,Yu et al(2008) report finding many DRMs thatdon?t appear in the WSJ (e.g., as a consequence).If one is to fully exploit DRMs in classifyingdiscourse relations, one must be able to identifythem all, or at least many more of them than wehave to date.
One method that seems promisingis Callison-Burch?s paraphrase generation throughback-translation on pairs of word-aligned corpora(Callison-Birch, 2007).
This method exploits thefrequency with which a word or phrase is backtranslated (from texts in language A to texts inlanguage B, and then back from texts in languageB to texts in language A) across a range of pivotlanguages, into other words or phrases.While there are many factors that introducelow-frequency noise into the process, includinglexical ambiguity and errors in word alignment,Callison-Burch?s method benefits from being ableto use the many existing word-aligned translationpairs developed for creating translation models forSMT.
Recently, Callison-Burch showed that para-phrase errors could be reduced by syntacticallyconstraining the phrases identified through back-translation to ones with the same syntactic cat-egory as assigned to the source (Callison-Birch,2008), using a large set of syntactic categoriessimilar to those used in CCG (Steedman, 2000).For DRMs, the idea is to identify through back-translation, instances of DRMs that were neitherincluded in our original set of explicit connec-tive nor subsequently found through AltLex an-notation.
To allow us to carry out a quick pi-lot study, Callison-Burch provided us with back-translations of 147 DRMs (primarily explicit con-nectives annotated in the PDTB 2.0, but also in-cluding a few from other syntactic classes foundthrough AltLex annotation).
Preliminary analysisof the results reveals many DRMs that don?t ap-pear anywhere in the WSJ Corpus (eg, as a con-sequence, as an example, by the same token), aswell as additional DRMs that appear in the cor-pus but were not annotated as AltLex (e.g., aboveall, after all, despite that).
Many of these latterinstances appear in the initial sentence of a para-graph, but the annotation of implicit connectives?
which is what led to AltLex annotation in thefirst place (Section 2) ?
was not carried out onthese sentences.There are two further things to note before clos-ing this discussion.
First, there is an additionalsource of noise in using back-translation para-phrase to expand the set of identified DRMs.
Thisarises from the fact that discourse relations canbe conveyed either explicitly or implicitly, anda translated text may not have made the samechoices vis-a-vis explicitation as its source, caus-ing additional word alignment errors (some ofwhich are interesting, but most of which are not).Secondly, this same method should prove usefulfor languages other English, although there will bean additional problem to overcome for languages(such as Turkish) in which DRMs are conveyedthrough morphology as well as through distinctwords and phrases.6 Related workWe are not the first to recognize that discourse re-lations can realized by more than just one or twosyntactic classes.
Halliday and Hasan (1976) doc-ument prepositional phrases like After that beingused to express conjunctive relations.
More im-portantly, they note that any definite descriptioncan be substituted for the demonstrative pronoun.1029Similarly, Taboada (2006), in looking at how of-ten RST-based rhetorical relations are realized bydiscourse markers, starts by considering only ad-verbials, prepositional phrases, and conjunctions,but then notes the occurrence of a single instanceof a nominal fragment The result in her corpus.Challenging the RST assumption that the basicunit of a discourse is a clause, with discourse rela-tions holding between adjacent clausal units, Kib-ble (1999) provides evidence that informationaldiscourse relations (as opposed to intentional dis-course relations) can hold intra-clausally as well,with the relation ?verbalized?
and its argumentsrealized as nominalizations, as in Early treatmentwith Brand X can prevent a cold sore developing.Since his focus is intra-clausal, he does not ob-serve that verbalized discourse relations can holdacross sentences as well, where a verb and oneof its arguments function similarly to a discourseadverbial, and in the end, he does not provide aproposal for how to systematically identify thesealternative realizations.
Le Huong et al (2003),in developing an algorithm for recognizing dis-course relations, consider non-verbal realizations(called NP cues) in addition to verbal realizations(called VP cues).
However, they provide only oneexample of such a cue (?the result?).
Like Kib-ble (1999), Danlos (2006) and Power (2007) alsofocus only on identifying verbalizations of dis-course relations, although they do consider caseswhere such relations hold across sentences.What has not been investigated in prior workis the basis for the alternation between connec-tives and AltLex?s, although there are several ac-counts of why a language may provide more thanone connective that conveys the same relation.For example, the alternation in Dutch betweendus (?so?
), daardoor (?as a result?
), and daarom(?that?s why?)
is explained by Pander Maat andSanders (2000) as having its basis in ?subjectiv-ity?.7 Conclusion and Future WorkCategorizing and identifying the range of ways inwhich discourse relations are realized is impor-tant for both discourse understanding and gener-ation.
In this paper, we showed that existing prac-tices of cataloguing these ways as lists of closedclass expressions is problematic.
We drew on ourexperience in creating the lexically grounded an-notations of the Penn Discourse Treebank, andshowed that markers of discourse relations shouldinstead be treated as open-class items, with uncon-strained syntactic possibilities.
Manual annota-tion and automatic identification practices shoulddevelop methods in line with this finding if theyaim to exhaustively identify all discourse relationmarkers.AcknowledgmentsWe want to thank Chris Callison-Burch, whograciously provided us with EuroParl back-translation paraphrases for the list of connectiveswe sent him.
This work was partially supportedby NSF grant IIS-07-05671.ReferencesCallison-Birch, Chris.
2007.
Paraphrasing and Trans-lation.
Ph.D. thesis, School of Informatics, Univer-sity of Edinburgh.Callison-Birch, Chris.
2008.
Syntactic constraints onparaphrases extracted from parallel corpora.
In Pro-ceedings of Conference on Empirical Methods inNatural Language Processing (EMNLP).Danlos, Laurence.
2006.
Discourse verbs.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Constraints in Dis-course, pages 59?65, Maynooth, Ireland.Forbes-Riley, Katherine, Bonnie Webber, and AravindJoshi.
2006.
Computing discourse semantics: Thepredicate-argument semantics of discourse connec-tives in D-LTAG.
Journal of Semantics, 23:55?106.Halliday, M. A. K. and Ruqaiya Hasan.
1976.
Cohe-sion in English.
London: Longman.Huong, LeThanh, Geetha Abeysinghe, and ChristianHuyck.
2003.
Using cohesive devices to recog-nize rhetorical relations in text.
In Proceedings of4th Computational Linguistics UK Research Collo-quium (CLUK 4), University of Edinburgh, UK.Kibble, Rodger.
1999.
Nominalisation and rhetoricalstructure.
In Proceedings of ESSLLI Formal Gram-mar conference, Utrecht.Knott, Alistair.
1996.
A Data-Driven Methodologyfor Motivating a Set of Coherence Relations.
Ph.D.thesis, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh.1030Lin, Ziheng, Min-Yen Kan, and Hwee Tou Ng.
2009.Recognizing implicit discourse relations in the penndiscourse treebank.
In Proceedings of the Confer-ence on Empirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing, Singapore.Maat, Henk Pander and Ted Sanders.
2000.
Do-mains of use or subjectivity?
the distribution ofthree dutch causal connectives explained.
TOPICSIN ENGLISH LINGUISTICS, pages 57?82.Marcu, Daniel and Abdessamad Echihabi.
2002.
Anunsupervised approach to recognizing discourse re-lations.
In Proceedings of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Marcus, Mitchell P., Beatrice Santorini, and Mary AnnMarcinkiewicz.
1993.
Building a large annotatedcorpus of english: The Penn Treebank.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 19(2):313?330.Martin, James R. 1992.
English text: System andstructure.
Benjamins, Amsterdam.Oza, Umangi, Rashmi Prasad, Sudheer Kolachina,Dipti Mishra Sharma, and Aravind Joshi.
2009.The hindi discourse relation bank.
In Proceedingsof the ACL 2009 Linguistic Annotation Workshop III(LAW-III), Singapore.Pitler, Emily and Ani Nenkova.
2009.
Using syntax todisambiguate explicit discourse connectives in text.In Proceedings of the Joint Conference of the 47thMeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics and the 4th International Joint Conferenceon Natural Language Processing, Singapore.Pitler, Emily, Annie Louis, and Ani Nenkova.
2009.Automatic sense prediction for implicit discourserelations in text.
In Proceedings of the Joint Con-ference of the 47th Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics and the 4th InternationalJoint Conference on Natural Language Processing.Power, Richard.
2007.
Abstract verbs.
In ENLG ?07:Proceedings of the Eleventh European Workshop onNatural Language Generation, pages 93?96, Mor-ristown, NJ, USA.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Prasad, Rashmi, Nikhil Dinesh, Alan Lee, Eleni Milt-sakaki, Livio Robaldo, Aravind Joshi, and BonnieWebber.
2008.
The Penn Discourse TreeBank 2.0.In Proceedings of 6th International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2008).PDTB-Group.
2008.
The Penn Discourse TreeBank2.0 Annotation Manual.
Technical Report IRCS-08-01, Institute for Research in Cognitive Science, Uni-versity of Pennsylvania.Sporleder, Caroline and Alex Lascarides.
2008.
Usingautomatically labelled examples to classify rhetori-cal relations: an assessment.
Natural Language En-gineering, 14(3):369?416.Steedman, Mark.
2000.
The Syntactic Process.
MITPress, Cambridge MA.Taboada, Maite.
2006.
Discourse markers as signals(or not) of rhetorical relations.
Journal of Pragmat-ics, 38(4):567?592.Yu, Hong, Nadya Frid, Susan McRoy, P Simpson,Rashmi Prasad, Alan Lee, and Aravind Joshi.
2008.Exploring discourse connectivity in biomedical textfor text mining.
In Proceedings of the 16th AnnualInternational Conference on Intelligent Systems forMolecular Biology BioLINK SIG Meeting, Toronto,Canada.1031
