Coling 2010: Poster Volume, pages 739?747,Beijing, August 2010Visually and Phonologically Similar Characters in IncorrectSimplified Chinese WordsChao-Lin Liu?
Min-Hua Lai?
Yi-Hsuan Chuang?
Chia-Ying Lee???
?Department of Computer Science; ?
?Center for Mind, Brain, and LearningNational Chengchi University?Institute of Linguistics, Academia Sinica{?chaolin, ?g9523, ?g9804}@cs.nccu.edu.tw, ?chiaying@gate.sinica.edu.twAbstractVisually and phonologically similar cha-racters are major contributing factors forerrors in Chinese text.
By defining ap-propriate similarity measures that consid-er extended Cangjie codes, we can identi-fy visually similar characters within afraction of a second.
Relying on the pro-nunciation information noted for individ-ual characters in Chinese lexicons, wecan compute a list of characters that arephonologically similar to a given charac-ter.
We collected 621 incorrect Chinesewords reported on the Internet, and ana-lyzed the causes of these errors.
83% ofthese errors were related to phonologicalsimilarity, and 48% of them were relatedto visual similarity between the involvedcharacters.
Generating the lists of phono-logically and visually similar characters,our programs were able to contain morethan 90% of the incorrect characters inthe reported errors.1 IntroductionIn this paper, we report the experience of ourstudying the errors in simplified Chinese words.Chinese words consist of individual characters.Some words contain just one character, but mostwords comprise two or more characters.
For in-stance, ???
(mai4)1 has just one character, and????
(yu3 yan2) is formed by two characters.Two most common causes for writing or typingincorrect Chinese words are due to visual andphonological similarity between the correct and1 We show simplified Chinese characters followed bytheir Hanyu pinyin.
The digit that follows the symbolsfor the sound is the tone for the character.the incorrect characters.
For instance, one mightuse ???
(hwa2) in the place of ???
(hwa4)  in??????
(ke1 hwa4 xing2 xiang4) partiallybecause of phonological similarity; one mightreplace ???
(zhuo2) in ??????
(xin1 lao2li4 zhuo2) with ???
(chu4) partially due to visu-al similarity.
(We do not claim that the visual orphonological similarity alone can explain theobserved errors.
)Similar characters are important for under-standing the errors in both traditional and simpli-fied Chinese.
Liu et al (2009a-c) applied tech-niques for manipulating correctness of Chinesewords to computer assisted test-item generation.Research in psycholinguistics has shown that thenumber of neighbor characters influences thetiming of activating the mental lexicon during theprocess of understanding Chinese text (Kuo et al2004; Lee et al 2006).
Having a way to computeand find similar characters will facilitate theprocess of finding neighbor words, so can be in-strumental for related studies in psycholinguistics.Algorithms for optical character recognition forChinese and for recognizing written Chinese tryto guess the input characters based on sets ofconfusing sets (Fan et al 1995; Liu et al, 2004).The confusing sets happen to be hand-craftedclusters of visually similar characters.It is relatively easy to judge whether two cha-racters have similar pronunciations based ontheir records in a given Chinese lexicon.
We willdiscuss more related issues shortly.To determine whether two characters are vi-sually similar is not as easy.
Image processingtechniques may be useful but is not perfectlyfeasible, given that there are more than fiftythousand Chinese characters (HanDict, 2010)and that many of them are similar to each otherin special ways.
Liu et al (2008) extend theCangjie codes (Cangjie, 2010; Chu, 2010) to en-code the layouts and details about traditional739Chinese characters for computing visually simi-lar characters.
Evidence observed in psycholin-guistic studies offers a cognition-based supportfor the design of Liu et al?s approach (Yeh andLi, 2002).
In addition, the proposed methodproves to be effective in capturing incorrect tra-ditional Chinese words (Liu et al, 2009a-c).In this paper, we work on the errors in simpli-fied Chinese words by extending the Cangjiecodes for simplified Chinese.
We obtain two listsof incorrect words that were reported on the In-ternet, analyze the major reasons that contributeto the observed errors, and evaluate how the newCangjie codes help us spot the incorrect charac-ters.
Results of our analysis show that phonolog-ical and visual similarities contribute similar por-tions of errors in simplified and traditional Chi-nese.
Experimental results also show that, we cancatch more than 90% of the reported errors.We go over some issues about phonologicalsimilarity in Section 2, elaborate how we extendand apply Cangjie codes for simplified Chinesein Section 3, present details about our experi-ments and observations in Section 4, and discusssome technical issues in Section 5.2 Phonologically Similar CharactersThe pronunciation of a Chinese character in-volves a sound, which consists of the nucleus andan optional onset, and a tone.
In Mandarin Chi-nese, there are four tones.
(Some researchers in-clude the fifth tone.
)In our work, we consider four categories ofphonological similarity between two characters:same sound and same tone (SS), same sound anddifferent tone (SD), similar sound and same tone(MS), and similar sound and different tone (MD).We rely on the information provided in a lex-icon (Dict, 2010) to determine whether two cha-racters have the same sound or the same tone.The judgment of whether two characters havesimilar sound should consider the language expe-rience of an individual.
One who live in thesouthern and one who live in the northern Chinamay have quite different perceptions of ?similar?sound.
In this work, we resort to the confusionsets observed in a psycholinguistic study con-ducted at the Academic Sinica.Some Chinese characters are heteronyms.
LetC1 and C2 be two characters that have multiplepronunciations.
If C1 and C2 share one of theirpronunciations, we consider that C1 and C2 be-long to the SS category.
This principle applieswhen we consider phonological similarity in oth-er categories.One challenge in defining similarity betweencharacters is that the pronunciations of a charac-ter can depend on its context.
The most commonexample of tone sandhi in Chinese (Chen, 2000)is that the first third-tone character in wordsformed by two adjacent third-tone characters willbe pronounced in the second tone.
At present, weignore the influences of context when determin-ing whether two characters are phonologicallysimilar.Although we have confined our definition ofphonological similarity to the context of theMandarin Chinese, it is important to note the in-fluence of sublanguages within the Chinese lan-guage family will affect the perception of phono-logical similarity.
Sublanguages used in differentareas in China, e.g., Shanghai, Min, and Cantonshare the same written forms with the MandarinChinese, but have quite different though relatedpronunciation systems.
Hence, people living indifferent areas in China may perceive phonologi-cal similarity in very different ways.
The study inthis direction is beyond the scope of the currentstudy.3 Visually Similar CharactersFigure 1 shows four groups of visually similarcharacters.
Characters in group 1 and group 2differ subtly at the stroke level.
Characters ingroup 3 share the components on their right sides.The shared component of the characters in group4 appears at different places within the characters.Radicals are used in Chinese dictionaries toorganize characters, so are useful for finding vi-sually similar characters.
The characters in group1 and group 2 belong to the radicals ???
and ?
?,respectively.
Notice that, although the radical forgroup 2 is clear, the radical for group 1 is notobvious because ???
is not a standalone compo-nent.However, the shared components might not bethe radicals of characters.
The shared compo-nents in groups 3 and 4 are not the radicals.
InFigure 1.
Examples of visually similar characters740many cases, radicals are semantic components ofChinese characters.
In groups 3 and 4, the sharedcomponents carry information about the pronun-ciations of the characters.
Hence, those charac-ters are listed under different radicals, thoughthey do look similar in some ways.Hence, a mechanism other than just relying oninformation about characters in typical lexiconsis necessary, and we will use the extended Cang-jie codes for finding visually similar characters.3.1 Cangjie Codes for Simplified ChineseTable 1 shows the Cangjie codes for the 13characters listed in Figure 1 and five othercharacters.
The ?ID?
column shows theidentification number for the characters, and wewill refer to the ith character by ci, where i is theID.
The ?CC?
column shows the Chinesecharacters, and the ?Cangjie?
column shows theCangjie codes.
Each symbol in the Cangjie codescorresponds to a key on the keyboard, e.g.
??
?and ?
?
?
collocate with ?W?
and ?L?,respectively.
Information about the completecorrespondence is available on the Wikipedia2.Using the Cangjie codes saves us from usingimage processing methods to determine the de-grees of similarity between characters.
Take theCangjie codes for the characters in group 2 (c5, c6,and c7) for example.
It is possible to find that thecharacters share a common component, based onthe shared substrings of the Cangjie codes, i.e.,????.
Using the common substring  (shown inblack bold) of the Cangjie codes, we may alsofind the shared component ???
for characters ingroup 3 (c10, c11, and c12), the shared component???
in c13 and c14, the shared component ???
inc15 and c16, and the shared component ?
?
in c16and c17.Despite the perceivable advantages, theseoriginal Cangjie codes are not good enough.
Inorder to maintain efficiency in inputting Chinesecharacters, the Cangjie codes have been limitedto no more than five keys.
Thus, users of theCangjie input method must familiarize them-selves with the principles for simplifying theCangjie codes.
While the simplified codes helpthe input efficiency, they also introduce difficul-ties and ambiguities when we compare the Cang-2en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cangjie_input_method#Keyboard_layout ; last visited on 22 April 2010.jie codes for computing similar characters.
Theprefix ????
in c16 and c17 can represent ?
?,???
(e.g., c8), and ???
(e.g., c9).
Characterswhose Cangjie codes include ????
may con-tain any of these three components, but they donot really look alike.Therefore, we augment the original Cangjiecodes by using the complete Cangjie codes andannotate each Chinese character with a layoutidentification that encodes the overall contours ofthe characters.
This is how Liu and his col-leagues (2008) did for the Cangjie codes for tra-ditional Chinese characters, and we employ asimilar exploration for the simplified Chinese.3.2 Augmenting the Cangjie CodesFigure 2 shows the twelve possible layouts thatare considered for the Cangjie codes forsimplified Chinese characters.
Some of thelayouts contain smaller areas, and the rectanglesshow a subarea within a character.
The smallerareas are assigned IDs between one and three.Notice that, to maintain read-ability of thefigures, not all IDs for subareas are shown inFigure 2.
An example character is providedbelow each layout.
From left to right and fromtop to bottom, each layout is assigned anidentification number from 1 to 12.
For example,the layout ID of ???
is 8.
???
has two parts, i.e.,???
and ??
?.Researchers have come up with other ways toID CC Cangjie ID CC Cangjie1 ?
?!
10 ?!
????
!2 ?
??!
11 ?!
???
!3 ?
??!
12 ?!
???
!4 ?
???!
13 ?!
???
!5 ?
????!
14 ?!
????
!6 ?
????!
15 ?!
????
!7 ?
???!
16 ?!
????
!8 ?
????
17 ?!
?????
!9 ?
????
18 ?!
?????
!Table 1.
Examples of Cangjie codesFigure 2.
Layouts of Chinese characters741decompose individual Chinese characters.
TheChinese Document Lab at the Academia Sinicaproposed a system with 13 operators for describ-ing the relationships among components in Chi-nese characters (CDL, 2010).
Lee (2010b) pro-pose more than 30 possible layouts.The layout of a character affects how peopleperceive visual similarity between characters.For instance, c16 in Table 1 is more similar to c17than to c18, although they share ?
?.
We rely onthe expertise in Cangjie codes reported in (Lee,2010a) to split the codes into parts.Table 2 shows the extended codes for somecharacters listed in Table 1.
The ?ID?
columnprovides links between the characters listed inboth Table 1 and Table 2.
The ?CC?
columnshows the Chinese characters.
The ?LID?
columnshows the identifications for the layouts of thecharacters.
The columns with headings ?P1?,?P2?, and ?P3?
show the extended Cangjie codes,where ?Pi?
shows the ith part of the Cangjiecodes, as indicated in Figure 2.We decide the extended codes for the partswith the help of computer programs and subjec-tive judgments.
Starting from the original Cang-jie codes, we can compute the most frequent sub-strings just like we can compute the frequenciesof n-grams in corpora (cf.
Jurafsky and Martin,2009).
Computing the most common substringsin the original codes is not a complex task be-cause the longest original Cangjie codes containjust five symbols.Often, the frequent substrings are simplifiedcodes for popular components in Chinese charac-ters, e.g., ?
?
and ?
?.
The original codes for ?
?and ?
?
are ?????
and ????
?, but they areoften simplified to ????
and ???
?, respec-tively.
When simplified, ?
?
have the sameCangjie code with ??
?, and ?
?
have the sameCangjie code with ???
and ??
?.After finding the frequent substrings, we veri-fy whether these frequent substrings are simpli-fied codes for meaningful components.
For mea-ningful components, we replace the simplifiedcodes with complete codes.
For instance theCangjie codes for ???
and ???
are extended toinclude ???
in Table 2, where we indicate theextended keys that did not belong to the originalCangjie codes in boldface and with a surroundingbox.
Most of the non-meaningful frequent sub-strings have two keys: one is the last key of apart, and the other is the first key of another part.They were by observed by coincidence.Although most of the examples provided inTable 2 indicate that we expand only the firstpart of the Cangjie codes, it is absolutely possiblethat the other parts, i.e., P2 and P3, may need tobe extended too.
c19 shows such an example.Replacing simplified codes with completecodes not only help us avoid incorrect matchesbut also help us find matches that would bemissed due to simplification of Cangjie codes.Using just the original Cangjie codes in Table 1,it is not easy to determine that c18 (???)
in Table1 shares a component (?
?)
with c16 and c17 (??
?and ???).
In contrast, there is a chance to findthe similarity with the extended Cangjie codes inTable 2, given that all of the three Cangjie codesinclude ????
?.We can see an application of the LIDs, using??
?, ???
and ???
as an example.
Consider thecase that we want to determine which of ??
?and ???
is more similar to ???.
Their extendedCangjie codes will indicate that ???
is the an-swer to this question for two reasons.
First, ??
?and ???
belong to the same type of layout; and,second, the shared components reside at the samearea in ???
and ??
?.3.3 Similarity MeasuresThe main differences between the original andthe extended Cangjie codes are the degrees ofdetails about the structures of the Chinese cha-racters.
By recovering the details that were ig-nored in the original codes, our programs will beID CC LID P1 P2 P35 ?
2 ???!
??!
!6 ?
2 ???!
??!
!7 ?
2 ???!
?!
!10 ?
10 ??!
?!
?
!11 ?
10 ?!
?!
?
!12 ?
10 ?!
?!
?
!13 ?
5 ?!
??!
!14 ?
9 ?!
?!
??
!15 ?
2 ???!
??!
!16 ?
2 ???!
??!
!17 ?
2 ???!
???!
!18 ?
3 ???!
??!
?
!19 ?
4 ?!
???!
??
!Table 2.
Examples of extended Cangjie codes742better equipped to find the similarity betweencharacters.In the current study, we experiment with threedifferent scoring methods to measure the visualsimilarity between two characters based on theirextended Cangjie codes.
Two of these methodshad been tried by Liu and his colleagues?
studyfor traditional Chinese characters (Liu et al,2009b-c).
The first method, denoted SC1, con-siders the total number of matched keys in thematched parts (without considering their partIDs).
Let ci denote the ith character listed in Table2.
We have SC1(c15, c16) = 2 because of thematched ????.
Analogously, we have SC1(c19,c16) = 2.The second method, denoted SC2, includesthe score of SC1 and considers the followingconditions: (1) add one point if the matched partslocate at the same place in the characters and (2)if the first condition is met, an extra point will beadded if the characters belong to the same layout.Hence, we have SC2(c15, c16) =SC1(c15,c16)+1+1=4 because (1) the matched ????
lo-cate at P2 in both characters and (2) c15 and c16belong to the same layout.
Assuming that c16 be-longs to layout 5, than SC2(c15, c16) would be-come 3.
In contrast, we have SC2(c19, c16)=2.
Noextra weights for the matching ????
because itlocates at different parts in the characters.
Theextra weight considers the spatial influences ofthe matched parts on the perception of similarity.While splitting the extended Cangjie codes in-to parts allows us to tell that c15 is more similarto c16 than to c19, it also creates a new barrier incomputing similarity scores.
An example of thisproblem is that SC2(c17, c18)=0.
This is becausethat ?????
at P1 in c17 can match neither ????
at P2 nor ???
at P3 in c18.To alleviate this problem, we consider SC3which computes the similarity in three steps.First, we concatenate the parts of a Cangjie codefor a character.
Then, we compute the longestcommon subsequence (LCS) (cf.
Cormen et al,2009) of the concatenated codes of the two cha-racters being compared, and compute a Dice?scoefficient (cf.
Croft et al, 2010) as the similari-ty.
Let X and Y denote the concatenated, ex-tended Cangjie codes for two characters, and letZ be the LCS of X and Y.
The similarity is de-fined by the following equation.SYXZDiceLCS stringoflength theisS where,2u(1)We compute another Dice?s coefficient be-tween X and Y.
The formula is the similar to (1),except that we set Z to the longest common con-secutive subsequence.
We call this scoreLCCSDice .
Notice that LCSLCCS DiceDice d ,1dLCCSDice , and 1dLCSDice  .
Finally, SC3 of twocharacters is the sum of their SC2, LCCSDiceu10 ,and LCSDiceu5 .
We multiply the Dice?s coeffi-cients with constants to make them as influentialas the SC2 component in SC3.
The constantswere not scientifically chosen, but were selectedheuristically.4 Error Analysis and EvaluationWe evaluate the effectiveness of using the pho-nologically and visually similar characters tocaptures errors in simplified Chinese words withtwo lists of reported errors that were collectedfrom the Internet.4.1 Data SourcesWe need two types of data for the experiments.The information about the pronunciation andstructures of the Chinese characters help us gen-erate lists of similar characters.
We also needreported errors so that we can evaluate whetherthe similar characters catch the reported errors.A lexicon that provides the pronunciation in-formation about Chinese characters and a data-base that contains the extended Cangjie codes arenecessary for our programs to generate lists ofcharacters that are phonologically and visuallysimilar to a given character.It is not difficult to acquire lexicons that showstandard pronunciations for Chinese characters.As we stated in Section 2, the main problem isthat it is not easy to predict how people in differ-ent areas in China actually pronounce the charac-ters.
Hence, we can only rely on the standardsthat are recorded in lexicons.With the procedure reported in Section 3.2, webuilt a database of extended Cangjie codes forthe simplified Chinese.
The database was de-signed to contain 5401 common characters in theBIG5 encoding, which was originally designedfor the traditional Chinese.
After converting thetraditional Chinese characters to the simplifiedcounterparts, the database contained only 5170743different characters.We searched the Internet for reported errorsthat were collected in real-world scenarios, andobtained two lists of errors.
The first list3 camefrom the entrance examinations for senior highschools in China, and the second list4 containederrors observed at senior high schools in China.We used 160 and 524 errors from the first andthe second lists, respectively, and we refer to thecombined list as the Ilist.
An item of reportederror contained two parts: the correct word andthe mistaken character, both of which will beused in our experiments.4.2 Preliminary Data AnalysisSince our programs can compare the similarityonly between characters that are included in ourlexicon, we have to exclude some reported errorsfrom the Ilist.
As a result, we used only 621 er-rors in this section.Two native speakers subjectively classified thecauses of these errors into three categories basedon whether the errors were related to phonologi-cal similarity, visual similarity, or neither.
Sincethe annotators did not always agree on their clas-sifications, the final results have five interestingcategories: ?P?, ?V?, ?N?, ?D?, and ?B?
in Table3.
P and V indicate that the annotators agreed onthe types of errors to be related to phonologicaland visual similarity, respectively.
N indicatesthat the annotators believed that the errors werenot due to phonological or visual similarity.
Dindicates that the annotators believed that theerrors were due to phonological or visual similar-ity, but they did not have a consensus.
B indi-cates the intersection of P and V.Table 3 shows the percentages of errors inthese categories.
To get 100% from the table, wecan add up P, V, N, and D, and subtract B fromthe total.
In reality there are errors of type N, andLiu and his colleagues (2009b) reported this typeof errors.
Errors in this category happened to bemissing in the Ilist.
Based on our and Liu?s ob-3www.0668edu.com/soft/4/12/95/2008/2008091357140.htm; last visited on 22 April 2010.4 gaozhong.kt5u.com/soft/2/38018.html; last visited on 22April 2010.servations, the percentages of phonological andvisual similarities contribute to the errors in sim-plified and traditional Chinese words with simi-lar percentages.4.3 Experimental ProcedureWe design and employ the ICCEval procedurefor the evaluation task.At step 1, given the correct word and the cor-rect character to be intentionally replaced withincorrect characters, we created a list of charac-ters based on the selection criterion.
We maychoose to evaluate phonologically or visuallysimilar characters.
For a given character, ICCEv-al can generate characters that are in the SS, SD,MS, and MD categories for phonologically simi-lar characters (cf.
Section 2).
For visually similarcharacters, ICCEval can select characters basedon SC1, SC2, and SC3 (cf.
Section 3.3).
In addi-tion, ICCEval can generate a list of charactersthat belong to the same radical and have the samenumber of strokes with the correct character.
Inthe experimental results, we refer to this type ofsimilar characters as RS.At step 2, for a correct word that people origi-nally wanted to write, we replaced the correctcharacter with an incorrect character with thecharacters that were generated at step 1, submit-ted the incorrect word to Google AJAX SearchP V N D BIlist 83.1 48.3 0 3.7 35.1Table 3.
Percentages of types of errorsProcedure ICCEvalInput:ccr: the correct character; cwd:the correct word; crit: the selec-tion criterion; num: number of re-quested characters; rnk: the cri-terion to rank the incorrectwords;Output: a list of ranked candidatesfor ccrSteps:1.
Generate a list, L, of charac-ters for ccr with the specifiedcriterion, crit.
When using SC1,SC2, or SC3 to select visuallysimilar characters, at most numcharacters will be selected.2.
For each c in L, replace ccr incwd with c, submit the resultingincorrect word to Google, andrecord the ENOP.3.
Rank the list of incorrect wordsgenerated at step 2, using thecriterion specified by rnk.4.
Return the ranked list.744API, and extracted the estimated numbers ofpages (ENOP) 5  that contained the incorrectwords.
In an ordinary interaction with Google, anENOP can be retrieved from the search results,and it typically follows the string ?Results 1-10 of about?
on the upper part of the browserwindow.
Using the AJAX API, we just have toparse the returned results with a simple method.Larger ENOPs for incorrect words suggestthat these words are incorrect words that peoplefrequently used on their web pages.
Hence, weranked the similar characters based on theirENOPs at step 3, and return the list.Since the reported errors contained informa-tion about the incorrect ways to write the correctwords, we could check whether the real incorrectcharacters were among the similar characters thatour programs generated at step 1 (inclusion tests).We could also check whether the actual incorrectcharacters were ranked higher in the ranked lists(ranking tests).Take the word ??????
as an example.
Inthe collected data, it is reported that people wrotethis word as ?????
?, i.e., the second charac-ter was incorrect.
Hoping to capture the error,ICCEval generated a list of possible substitutionsfor ???
at step 1.
Depending on the categoriesof sources of errors, ICCEval generated a list ofcharacters.
When aiming to test the effectivenessof visually similar characters, we could ask IC-CEval to apply SC3 to generate a list of alterna-tives for ??
?, possibly including ??
?, ???,??
?, and other candidates.
At step 2, we createdand submitted query strings ?????
?, ?????
?, and ??????
to obtain the ENOPs forthe candidates.
If the ENOPs were, respectively,410000, 26100, and 7940, these candidateswould be returned in the order of ??
?, ??
?, and???.
As a result, the returned list contained theactual incorrect character ??
?, and placed ??
?on top of the ranked list.Notice that we considered the contexts inwhich the incorrect characters appeared to rank.We did not rank the incorrect characters with justthe unigrams.
In addition, although this runningexample shows that we ranked the charactersdirectly with the ENOPs, we also ranked the list5According to (Croft et al, 2010), the ENOPs may not re-flect the actual number of pages on the Internet.of alternatives with pointwise mutual information:)Pr()Pr()Pr(,XCXCXCPMIu?,                 (2)where X is the candidate character to replace thecorrect character and C is the correct word ex-cluding the correct character to be replaced.
Tocompute the score of replacing ???
with ???
in?????
?, X = ??
?, C=?????
?, and (C?X)is ??????.
(?
!denotes a character to be re-placed.)
PMI is a common tool for judging collo-cations in natural language processing.
(cf.
Ju-rafsky and Martin, 2009).It would demand very much computation ef-fort to find Pr(C).
Fortunately, we do not have toconsider Pr(C) because it is a common denomi-nator for all incorrect characters.
Let X1 and X2be two competing candidates for the correct cha-racter.
We can ignore Pr(C) because of the fol-lowing relationship.
)Pr()Pr()Pr()Pr(,,221121 XXCXXCXCPMIXCPMI?t?
?tHence, X1 prevails if  1, XCscore  is larger.)Pr()Pr(,XXCXCscore?
(3)In our work, we approximate the probabilitiesused in (3) by the corresponding frequencies thatwe can collect through Google, similar to themethods that we used to collect the ENOPs.4.4 Experimental Results: Inclusion TestsWe ran ICCEval with 621 errors in the Ilist.
Theexperiments were conducted for all categories ofphonological and visual similarity.
When usingSS, SD, MS, MD, and RS as the selection crite-rion, we did not limit the number of candidatecharacters.
When using SC1, SC2, and SC3 asthe criterion, we limited the number candidatesto be no more than 30.
We consider only wordsthat the native speakers have consensus over thecauses of errors.
Hence, we dropped those 3.7%of words in Table 3, and had just 598 errors.
TheENOPs were obtained during March and April2010.Table 4 shows the chances that the lists, gen-SS SD MS MD PhoneIlist 82.6 29.3 1.7 1.6 97.3SC1 SC2 SC3 RS VisualIlist 78.3 71.0 87.7 1.3 90.0Table 4.
Chances of the recommended list con-tains the incorrect character745erated with different crit at step 1, contained theincorrect character in the reported errors.
In theIlist, there were 516 and 3006  errors that wererelated to phonological and visual similarity, re-spectively.
Using the characters generated withthe SS criterion, we captured 426 out of 516phone-related errors, so we showed 426/516 =82.6% in the table.Results in Table 4 show that we capturedphone-related errors more effectively than visual-ly-similar errors.
With a simple method, we cancompute the union of the characters that weregenerated with the SS, SD, MS, and MD criteria.This integrated list suggested how well we cap-tured the errors that were related to phones, andwe show its effectiveness under ?Phone?.
Simi-larly, we integrated the lists generated by SC1,SC2, SC3, and RS to explore the effectiveness offinding errors that are related to visual similarity,and the result is shown under ?Visual?.4.5 Experimental Results: Ranking TestsTo put the generated characters into work, wewish to put the actual incorrect character high inthe ranked list.
This will help the efficiency insupporting computer assisted test-item writing.Having short lists that contain relatively moreconfusing characters may facilitate the data prep-aration for psycholinguistic studies.At step 3, we ranked the candidate charactersby forming incorrect words with other charactersin the correct words as the context and submittedthe words to Google for ENOPs.
The results ofranking, shown in Table 5, indicate that we mayjust offer the leading five candidates to cover theactual incorrect characters in almost all cases.The ?Total?
column shows the total number oferrors that were captured by the selection crite-rion.
The column ?Ri?
shows the percentage ofall errors, due to phonological or visual similarity,that were re-created and ranked ith at step 3 inICCEVAL.
The row headings show the selectioncriteria that were used in the experiments.
Forinstance, using SS as the criterion, 70.3% of ac-tual phone-related errors were rank first, 7.4% ofthe phone-related errors were ranked second, etc.If we recommended only 5 leading incorrect cha-6The sum of 516 and 300 is larger than 598 becausesome of the characters are similar both phonologicallyand visually.racters only with SS, we would have captured theactual incorrect characters that were phone re-lated 81.6% (the sum of R1 to R5) of the time.For errors that were related to visual similarity,recommending the top five candidates with SC3would capture the actual incorrect characters87.1% of the time.
Since we do not show thecomplete distributions, the sums over the rowsare not 100%.
In the current experiments, theworst rank was 21.We also used PMI to rank the incorrect words.Due to page limits, we cannot show completedetails about the results.
The observed distribu-tions in ranks were not very different from thoseshown in Table 5.5 DiscussionCompared with Liu et al?s analysis (2009b-c)for the traditional Chinese, the proportions oferrors related to phonological factors are almostthe same, both at about 80%.
The proportion oferrors related to visual factors varied, but the av-erages in both studies were about 48%.
A largerscale of study is needed for how traditional andsimplified characters affect the distributions oferrors.
Results shown in Table 4 suggest that it isrelatively easy to capture errors related to visualfactors in simplified Chinese.
Although we can-not elaborate, we note that Cangjie codes are notgood for comparing characters that have fewstrokes, e.g., c1 to c4 in Table 1.
In these cases,the coding method for Wubihua input method(Wubihua, 2010) should be applied.AcknowledgementThis research was supported in part by the researchcontract NSC-97-2221-E-004-007-MY2 from the Na-tional Science Council of Taiwan.
We thank the ano-nymous reviewers for constructive comments.
Al-though we are not able to respond to all the commentsTotal R1 R2 R3 R4 R5SS 426 70.3 7.4 2.9 0.4 0.6SD 151 25.6 2.7 0.6 0.0 0.4MS 9 1.4 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0MD 8 1.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0SC1 235 61.3 10.3 4.3 2.0 0.3SC2 213 53.7 11.0 3.7 2.3 0.3SC3 263 66.7 12.7 5.7 1.7 0.3RS 4 1.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0Table 5.
Ranking the candidates746in this paper, we have done so in an extended versionof this paper.ReferencesCangjie.
2010.
Last visited on 22 April 2010:en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cangjie_input_method.CDL.
2010.
Chinese document laboratory, AcademiaSinica.
Last visited on 22 April, 2010;cdp.sinica.edu.tw/cdphanzi/.
(in Chinese)Chen, Matthew.
Y.
2000.
Tone Sandhi: Patternsacross Chinese Dialects, (Cambridge Studies inLinguistics 92).
Cambridge University Press.Chu, Bong-Foo.
2010.
Handbook of the Fifth Genera-tion of the Cangjie Input Method.
last visited on 22April 2010: www.cbflabs.com/book/5cjbook/.
(in Chi-nese)Cormen, Thomas H., Charles E. Leiserson, Ronald L.Rivest, and Clifford Stein.
2009.
Introduction toAlgorithms, third edition.
MIT Press.Croft, W. Bruce, Donald Metzler, and Trevor Stroh-man, 2010.
Search Engines: Information Retrievalin Practice, Pearson.Dict.
2010.
Last visited on 22 April 2010,www.cns11643.gov.tw/AIDB/welcome.doFan, Kuo-Chin, Chang-Keng Lin, and Kuo-Sen Chou.1995.
Confusion set recognition of on-line Chinesecharacters by artificial intelligence technique.
Pat-tern Recognition, 28(3):303?313.HanDict.
2010.
Last visit on 22 April 2010,www.zdic.net/appendix/f19.htm.Jurafsky, Daniel and James H. Martin.
2009.
Speechand Language Processing, second edition, Pearson.Kuo, Wen-Jui, Tzu-Chen Yeh, Jun-Ren Lee, Li-FenChen, Po-Lei Lee, Shyan-Shiou Chen, Low-ToneHo, Daisy L. Hung, Ovid J.-L. Tzeng, and Jen-Chuen Hsieh.
2004.
Orthographic and phonologicalprocessing of Chinese characters: An fMRI study.NeuroImage, 21(4):1721?1731.Lee, Chia-Ying, Jie-Li Tsai, Hsu-Wen Huang, DaisyL.
Hung, Ovid J.-L. Tzeng.
2006.
The temporalsignatures of semantic and phonological activationsfor Chinese sublexical processing: An even-relatedpotential study.
Brain Research, 1121(1):150-159.Lee, Hsiang.
2010a.
Cangjie Input Methods in 30Days 2.
Foruto.
Last visited on 22 April 2010:  in-put.foruto.com/cccls/cjzd.html.Lee, Mu.
2010b.
A quantitative study of the formationof Chinese characters.
Last visited on 22 April2010: chinese.exponode.com/0_1.htm.
(in Chinese)Liu, Chao-Lin, and Jen-Hsiang Lin.
2008.
Usingstructural information for identifying similar Chi-nese characters.
Proc.
of the 46th Annual Meetingof the Association for Computational Linguistics,short papers, 93?96.Liu, Chao-Lin, Kan-Wen Tien, Yi-Hsuan Chuang,Chih-Bin Huang, and Juei-Yu Weng.
2009a.
Twoapplications of lexical information to computer-assisted item authoring for elementary Chinese.Proc.
of the 22nd Int?l Conf.
on Industrial En-gineering & Other Applications of Applied Intel-ligent Systems, 470?480.Liu, Chao-Lin, Kan-Wen Tien, Min-Hua Lai, Yi-Hsuan Chuang, and Shih-Hung Wu.
2009b.
Cap-turing errors in written Chinese words.
Proc.
of the47th Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, short papers, 25?28.Liu, Chao-Lin, Kan-Wen Tien, Min-Hua Lai, Yi-Hsuan Chuang, and Shih-Hung Wu.
2009c.
Phono-logical and logographic influences on errors inwritten Chinese words.
Proc.
of the 7th Workshopon Asian Language Resources, the 47th AnnualMeeting of the ACL, 84?91.Liu, Cheng-Lin, Stefan Jaeger, and Masaki Nakagawa.2004.
Online recognition of Chinese characters:The state-of-the-art.
IEEE Transaction on PatternAnalysis and Machine Intelligence, 26(2):198?213.Wubihua.
2010.
Last visited on 22 April 2010:en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wubihua_method.Yeh, Su-Ling, and Jing-Ling Li.
2002.
Role of struc-ture and component in judgments of visual simi-larity of Chinese Characters.
Journal of Expe-rimental Psychology: Human Perception and Per-formance, 28(4):933?947.747
