Coling 2010: Poster Volume, pages 1068?1076,Beijing, August 2010Argument Optionality in the LinGO Grammar MatrixSafiyyah SaleemUniversity of Washingtonssaleem@u.washington.eduEmily M. BenderUniversity of Washingtonebender@u.washington.eduAbstractWe present a library of implementedHPSG analyses for argument optional-ity based on typological studies of thisphenomenon in the world?s languages,developed in the context of a grammarcustomization system that pairs a cross-linguistic core grammar with extensionsfor non-universal phenomena on the ba-sis of user input of typological proper-ties.
Our analyses are compatible withmultiple intersecting phenomena, includ-ing person, number, gender, tense, aspectand morphological rule formulation.
Weachieve 80-100% coverage on test suitesfrom 10 natural languages.1 IntroductionThe LinGO Grammar Matrix customization sys-tem (Bender et al, 2002; 2010) is a web-basedtool that creates starter grammars based on users?input to a questionnaire.
The system comprises acore grammar covering linguistic phenomena thatare posited to be universal (e.g.
semantic compo-sitionality) and a set of libraries providing anal-yses for phenomena that vary across languages(e.g.
case).
These resources are developed in thecontext of HPSG (Pollard and Sag, 1994), Mini-mal Recursion Semantics (Copestake et al, 2005),and the LKB grammar development environment(Copestake, 2002).Previous to the work reported here, the Gram-mar Matrix customization system did not handleargument optionality?the possibility of leavingarguments unexpressed in lieu of overt pronouns.This phenomenon, also called pro-drop, argumentdrop, or null instantiation, is extremely common:according to Dryer (2008), 79% of the 674 lan-guages sampled cannot or do not normally use in-dependent pronouns in subject position.
Accord-ingly, adding it to the customization system im-proves the system?s ability to handle a large classof core sentences in many languages.For example, in Modern Standard Arabic [arb](Semitic), overt pronominal subjects are droppedin non-emphatic contexts.
Previously, the systemwas able to model only the longer variant of (1).
(1) (hiyya)(3.FEM.SG)naama-tsleep.PAST-3.FEM.SGShe slept.
[arb]Furthermore, there was no way to adequately ac-count for languages such as Hausa [hau] (Chadic)which do not allow overt simple pronominal sub-jects and prohibit overt objects after certain verbforms.
The grammar would predict the oppositegrammaticality for the examples in (2).
(2) (*n??
)(*1.SG)na?-san1.SG.COMP-knowamsa?answerI know the answer.
[hau]It might seem that these facts could be han-dled by adding a rule that allows arguments tobe dropped if an appropriate option is checked inthe customization system.
However, the data fromArabic and Hausa suggest that such an approachwould be insufficient, as languages place differentconstraints on the contexts in which overt argu-ments are required or prohibited.In ?2 we discuss the broad range of typologicalvariation in argument optionality in the world?slanguages.
In ?3 we offer a set of HPSG analy-ses for these patterns.
?4 explains how these anal-yses were incorporated into the Grammar Matrix1068customization system and integrated with the ex-isting libraries.
We then present the results of athree-tiered evaluation of the implemented systemin ?5.
The results demonstrate that the system iscapable of accurately modeling the attested syn-tactic argument optionality patterns exhibited bya typologically diverse group of languages as wellas the currently unattested but logically possibleco-occurrence restrictions on affixes and overt ar-guments.
To our knowledge, this is the first suchsystem.
The paper closes with a brief look at howthe library could be extended even further to cap-ture the range of semantic distinctions.2 Typological PatternsThe typological literature shows that argumentoptionality is extremely common: Dryer (2008)found that of 674 geographically and geneticallydiverse languages, only 141 normally or obli-gatorily used independent pronominal subjects.Dryer distinguishes 4 categories in the remaining533 languages, corresponding to how informationabout the person, number, and gender (PNG) ofthe subject is encoded: affixation on the verb, cl-itics on variable hosts, no encoding, or a mixedstrategy.
In addition, there are other dimensionsin which languages vary, e.g., constraints on con-texts in which dropping is done (see (1)?
(2)).Although we were unable to find a similar com-prehensive survey of unexpressed objects, thereis evidence to suggest that it too may be verywidespread.
In particular, lexically-licensed ob-ject dropping seems to be very common.
Even En-glish, which has a very strong preference for overtsubjects, can be analyzed as licensing lexically-based object dropping (Fillmore, 1986).
As withsubject dropping, we also found a number of dif-ferent co-occurrence restrictions on the presenceof verbal affixes and overt objects.
Some lan-guages always encode the PNG of an object on theverb, others optionally do so if an overt object ispresent and obligatorily do so if one is not, whilestill others do not encode this information at all.Drawing on work by Dryer and others, Table 1summarizes the 6 major dimensions along whichthe rules licensing argument dropping differ.
Thefirst constraint is syntactic context.
Most lan-guages that license argument dropping do so re-gardless of tense/aspect, mood, or person.
Finnish[fin] and Hebrew [heb] are two notable exceptions(Vainikka and Levy, 1999).The second constraint, lexically-based licens-ing, is most commonly found in object dropping.For example, while English usually prohibits ar-gument dropping, it arguably licenses it withverbs such as ?found out?, ?agree?, and ?promise?
(Fillmore, 1986).
Lexically-based subject dropis found in Tamil [tam], which generally licensessubject dropping aside from some weather relatedverbs (Asher, 1985).The third constraint, noun phrase type, capturesthe difference between a language such as Hausawhich generally prohibits independent pronounsfrom appearing as subjects and other languages,which allow pronouns in subject position (possi-bly with emphatic interpretations).The fourth constraint concerns the position ofPNG markers.
Of the languages with subject PNGmarkers and subject dropping, many encode sub-ject PNG as a verbal affix.
This pattern is ex-hibited by such geographically and genetically di-verse languages as Spanish [spa], Arabic [arb],West Greenlandic [kal], Tamil [tam], and Nkore-Kiga [nyn].
Other languages such as Chemehuevi[ute], Polish [pol], and Warlpiri [wbp] make useof a clitic which can attach to different types ofhosts (Dryer, 2008).The final two constraints concern co-occurrence restrictions between PNG markersand overt objects.
In some Bantu languages suchas Nkore-Kiga, a verbal affix is not used unlessthe object precedes the verb or is pronominal.Object markers are not used when a full NPfollows the verb (Taylor, 1985).
In written French[fra], verbal affixes1 are required if an object isdropped and not permitted if it is overt.
In Arabic,for most transitive verbs, an object marker isrequired if an object is dropped and is optionalif it is present.
Hausa exhibits a more complexpattern: for tenses in which the verbal affixdenoting PNG is morphologically separable fromthe tense marker, the PNG affix is optional if anovert noun phrase is present and required if it isnot (Newman, 2000).1See (Miller and Sag, 1997) for convincing argumentsthat so-called ?clitics?
in French are actually affixes.1069Constraint (GF) Possible ValuesSyntactic context (SUBJ) { All, select } tenses/aspects/moods/personsLexically-based (SUBJ, OBJ) { All, select } verbsNoun phrase type (SUBJ, OBJ) Independent pronouns { allowed, prohibited }Placement of PNG marker (SUBJ) { Verb, variable host }PNG marking w/ dropped argument (OBJ) { Required, optional, not permitted }PNG marking w/ overt argument (OBJ) { Required, optional, not permitted }Table 1: Typological variation in licensing argument droppingNoting these differences led us to posit thatwhen an argument is dropped, there are three pos-sibilities.
A verbal affix can be: not permitted,optional, or required.
The same three possibilitiesexist for overt objects as well.
Combining whathappens when an argument is dropped with whathappens when it is present, gives us nine logicallypossible co-occurrence patterns.Our review of the typological literature hasshown that languages place different constraintson argument dropping.
These constraints canbe lexical, syntactic, or related to affixation andaffix/overt-argument co-occurrence restrictions.3 AnalysisThis section presents HPSG analyses modelingthe six dimensions of variation described in ?2.HPSG models natural language by positing lex-ical entries, lexical rules, and phrase structurerules, all described in terms of feature struc-tures.
A central idea, inspired by earlier workin Categorial Grammar (Ajdukiewicz, 1935; Bar-Hillel, 1953), is the notion of valence features.These list-valued features (including SUBJ andCOMPS) contain information about the dependentsrequired by a head.
The valence lists are projectedup the tree within the domain of each head, butshortened as the dependents are realized.
A sen-tence is thus a verbal projection with empty SUBJand COMPS lists.In this context, argument dropping is the short-ening of a valence list without the overt realiza-tion of the argument.
Formally, this can be ac-complished in at least three different ways: (1) Inthe mapping of arguments from the ARG-ST (ar-gument structure) feature to the valence lists, oneor more arguments can be suppressed, (2) lexicalrules can operate on the valence lists, shorteningthem, or (3) unary (non-branching) phrase struc-ture rules can cancel off valence elements.
In thiswork, we take the third approach, as we find itaffords us the most flexibility to deal with varia-tions across languages in constraints on argumentoptionality, while promoting similarity of analy-ses across languages.We control the applicability of the unary-branching rules with the boolean feature OPT,marked on elements of valence lists.2 For lan-guages which allow subject/object dropping, weinstantiate new phrase structure rules: head-opt-subj-phrase and/or head-opt-comp-phrase.
Theserules allow the head verb to satisfy a valence re-quirement without combining with another ex-pression.
To undergo these rules, the head daugh-ter (the verb) must specify that the argument thatis to be dropped is compatible with [OPT +].
Thisis sufficient to account for many languages.
How-ever, to ensure that languages which have lexical,syntactic context, and affix co-occurrence restric-tions do not overgenerate, further additions to thegrammar are necessary.For lexical and affix-co-occurrence restrictions,we prevent overgeneration by manipulating theOPT feature.
In languages which only licenseargument dropping for certain lexical items, weforce those verbs which do not allow argumentdropping to have arguments that are constrainedto be [OPT ?].
This prevents them from under-going the subject/object dropping rules.
Verbsare then classified into four different types basedon whether or not they allow subject and/or ob-ject dropping.
Individual lexical items instantiatethese types.
For those verbs which do not allowa particular argument to be dropped, the only wayto satisfy the valence requirement is to combinewith an overt argument.2This feature was provided by the core Matrix but was notpreviously used in the customization system.
To our knowl-edge it is not commonly used within HPSG analyses asidefrom in grammars that were derived from the Matrix.1070Dropped/Overt Argument Affix Overt Arg Rule No-Marker-Rule Marker-Rule Transitive Verb Lexrequired/required underspecified none underspecified needs lex ruleoptional/optional underspecified none underspecified underspecifiednot permitted/not permitted underspecified none none underspecifiedrequired/optional OPT ?
OPT ?
underspecified needs lex ruleoptional/not permitted OPT ?
none OPT + underspecifiednot permitted/required OPT ?
OPT + OPT ?
needs lex rulerequired/not permitted OPT ?
OPT ?
OPT + needs lex ruleoptional/required OPT ?
OPT + underspecified needs lex rulenot permitted/optional OPT ?
none OPT ?
underspecifiedTable 2: Constraints associated with logically possible affix co-occurrenceLanguages with complex affix co-occurrencerestrictions are modeled by manipulating the OPTfeature in a different way: Constraints are placedon lexical and phrase structure rules, as well ason lexical types.
In particular, we constrain therules which combine verbs with overt argumentsto check that that argument position is compati-ble with [OPT ?].
This allows the lexical rulesattaching the affixes to constrain the optionalityof the corresponding argument position.
In someof the nine logical possibilities, enforcing theseconstraints requires sending the verb through ?no-marker?
lexical rules so that constraints associ-ated with markerless verbs can be enforced.
Ta-ble 2 summarizes the constraints on the OPT fea-ture on lexical and phrase structure rules, as wellas the constraints on lexical types.
The first col-umn of this table lists the nine logically possiblecombinations described in ?2.
For example, therow labeled ?required/required?
gives the analysisfor a language like West Greenlandic, which al-lows object dropping and always requires an ob-ject marker on the verb regardless of whether ornot an overt object is present.
In such a language,neither the lexical rules nor the overt-complementphrase structure rule constrain OPT, but the tran-sitive verb lex type is required to undergo someobject marking lexical rule.For licensing that is based on syntactic context(subject dropping only) such as the Finnish andHebrew examples presented in ?2, we place con-straints on the daughter of the unary subject droprule which restrict its application to the right con-texts.
For example, to account for the argumentoptionality pattern present in Finnish, we con-strain the head-opt-subj-phrase rule to require thatthe item on the head daughter?s SUBJ list be spec-?
?head-opt-subjsubj ?
?obj ?
????
?head-compsubj ?
NP[3sg.m] ?obj ?
????
?no-marker-lex-rulesubj ?
NP[3sg.m] ?obj ?
NP[OPT ?]
????
?3sgm-subj-lex-rulesubj ?
NP[3sg.m] ?obj ?
NP ????
?trans-verb-lexsubj ?
NP ?obj ?
NP ??
?ishtaraaacc-lex-rulenoun-lexkitaab-anFigure 1: Parse structure for (3)ified as non-third-person ([PER non-third]).
Verbsnot meeting this constraint are only allowed toempty their SUBJ lists by combining with an overtsubject via the standard, binary head-subj-phraserule.
We have not seen a language which licensessubject dropping in syntactic contexts which donot form a natural class according to our featuresystem.
However, our analysis easily lends it-self to modeling this type of pattern if it exists bycreating multiple different subtypes of the subjectdrop rule.We close this section by illustrating our analysiswith an example from Arabic.
The sentence in (3)involves subject drop and an overt object.
Sincethe object is overt, the verb bears only marking ofsubject PNG.
The grammar that our system gener-ates for Arabic assigns (3) the structure sketchedin Figure 1.
(3) ishtaraa3ms.buy.pastkitaab-anbook-accHe bought a book10714 Customized Grammar CreationBefore the addition of the argument optionalitylibrary, the phenomena covered in the GrammarMatrix customization system included word order,person, number, gender, case, tense/aspect, coor-dination, matrix yes-no questions, and sententialnegation.
The user is also allowed to specify lex-ical items and the morphological rules associatedwith each of them.
Each of the phenomena corre-spond to a page of the questionnaire.As the user answers questions, the choices aresaved in a ?choices?
file.
The questionnaire is dy-namic and the answers contained in the ?choices?file affect the types of features that the user isable to choose from on subsequent pages.
Forexample, if the user describes the language ashaving 1st, 2nd, and 3rd persons on the Personpage, then on the lexicon page, the user can cre-ate separate noun types for each person.
Oncethe ?choices?
file contains responses to requiredsections, the user is able to create the customizedstarter grammar by clicking on the ?create gram-mar?
button.
This invokes the customization scriptwhich uses the responses contained in the file tocreate a grammar that is compatible with the LKBgrammar development environment.Our implementation entailed additions to twomajor components of the system: the web-basedquestionnaire and the customization script.
To de-termine which, if any, of the analyses presentedin ?3 should be included in the customized gram-mar, we needed to elicit the type of argument op-tionality pattern the language exhibited.
Thus, weadded an Argument Optionality page to the ques-tionnaire.
The page is divided into two sections?one for subject dropping and one for object drop-ping.
In the section on subject dropping, the useris asked whether subject dropping exists and ifso, whether it is context-dependent.
For context-dependent subject dropping, the user is allowedto specify the syntactic contexts in which subjectdropping is licensed by choosing from a multi-select list of features.
There is the option to createmultiple contexts.
The features that appear in thelist are drawn from those that the user chose onprevious pages in the questionnaire.
The user isalso directed to select whether subject droppingis lexically-based, whether affixes are required,optional or not permitted with overt argumentsand whether affixes are required, optional or notpermitted with dropped arguments.
The ques-tions presented in the object dropping section areidentical to those in the subject dropping sectionwith the exception that there is no question aboutcontext-dependent object dropping.Since some of the constraints must be placed onindividual lexical items and morphological rules,the page also includes instructions to the user onadditional steps that need to be taken when com-pleting the Lexicon page.
For example, when de-scribing a language where affixes are optional ifan argument is dropped and not permitted if anovert argument is present, users are instructed toselect ?overt-arg-not-permitted?
for those affixeson the Lexicon page.The changes to the customization script in-cluded adding each of the analyses described in?3 along with a mechanism for determining whichof the analyses should be included in the gram-mar depending on the choices related to argu-ment optionality, lexical items, and morphologicalrules contained in the ?choices?
file.
The result-ing customized grammars include the rules andconstraints necessary to allow and prohibit stringsthat do not contain overt arguments based uponthe facts of a particular language as described bythe user in the questionnaire.5 EvaluationThe evaluation was conducted in a three stage pro-cess.
Each stage involves constructing a set of testsuites containing grammatical and ungrammaticalstrings representing the argument optionality pat-tern of a set of languages, generating grammarsfor the languages by answering the Grammar Ma-trix questionnaire, using the grammars to parse thesentences in the test suite, and hand-verifying theresults.
The three stages differed in the nature ofthe languages, the method by which the languageswere selected, and the breadth of the customizedgrammars.
The test suites are small, as they arespecifically targeted at the phenomenon of argu-ment optionality, but representative in the sensethat they cover the space of relevant contrasts ineach language.10725.1 Set 1: Pseudo-LanguagesIn the first stage, we tested the analyses presentedin ?3 by creating and then using the Grammar Ma-trix customization system to generate grammarsfor 38 pseudo-languages (sets of strings with as-sociated grammaticality assignments) which col-lectively exhaustively exhibit each of the lexical,syntactic context or affix co-occurrence restric-tion patterns described in Table 1 (?2).
All ofthe possible values identified for these given pat-terns are present in at least one language, as wellas cross-classifications of different dimensions ofconstraints where appropriate.
For example, thereare pseudo-languages which share the propertyof always requiring object markers but differ inthat one has lexically licensed object dropping andthe other general object dropping.
These pseudo-languages test the argument optionality analysesin isolation in that argument optionality is not con-strained by other phenomena such as word order.The customized grammars were able to accu-rately parse grammatical strings and rule out un-grammatical ones.
Coverage on this set of 38pseudo-languages was 100% with 0% overgener-ation and no spurious ambiguity, thus validatingthe functioning of our analyses across the knowntypological space.5.2 Set 2: Illustrative LanguagesNext, we tested the system?s performance in mod-eling part of a natural language.
For this stagewe deliberately chose several languages which ex-emplified interesting licensing and co-occurrencerestriction patterns, including some which wereconsidered during the development of the system.Each test suite included examples of grammaticaland ungrammatical strings that were constructedbased on the descriptions of the language givenin the following sources: Suleiman 1990 (Ara-bic), Sulkala and Merja 1992 (Finnish), Newman2000 (Hausa), and Asher 1985 (Tamil).
As thetest suites were designed to evaluate argument op-tionality, we restricted the test items to this phe-nomenon only.
Other syntactic phenomena wereonly included if they affected the argument op-tionality pattern in the language.
For example,gender distinctions were considered only for lan-guages in which this was relevant to affix mark-ing.
A brief description of the argument optional-ity patterns found in these languages follows.Arabic [arb] (Semitic) Pronominal subjectsand objects are generally dropped.
Subject affixesare always required whether or not an overt nounphrases is present.
Affixes marking object per-son, number, and gender are required for strictlytransitive verbs when an overt noun phrase is notpresent.
Other transitive verbs appear to allow ob-ject drop without the object affix.Finnish [fin] (Uralic) First and second personsubjects are freely dropped and markers appearon the verb whether or not an overt noun phraseis present.
Third person subjects are not allowedto be dropped with a referential interpretation;however, third person pronouns are obligatorilydropped for what Sulkala and Merja (1992) de-scribe as a generic impersonal meaning.
This de-scription fits into what some linguists refer to asthe fourth person?a non-referential impersonalsyntactic/semantic distinction that is often real-ized in English as the impersonal pronoun one.Since Finnish shows evidence of further syntac-tic distinctions between generic and referentialuse of the third person marker, we have analyzedthis marker as actually corresponding to two ho-mophonous morphemes.
One requires an overtsubject and the other requires a dropped subject.There are no verbal affixes for PNG of the object.Hausa [hau] (Chadic) Hausa generally re-quires pronominal subjects to be dropped.
Simple,unmodified, uncoordinated independent pronounsare ungrammatical in subject position.
SubjectPNG is marked in a person aspect complex (PAC)along with tense and aspect information.
ThePAC precedes the lexical verb.
When the PNGmarker is morphologically segmentable from thetense/aspect, the PNG marker can be omitted if anovert noun phrase is present and is required if thenoun phrase is not present.
PNG is not marked forobjects; however the verb form changes depend-ing on whether a full noun phrase, pronoun, or noobject immediately follows the verb.Tamil [tam] (Dravidian) Subjects and objectscan be freely dropped aside from a special classof weather verbs requiring overt subjects.
Subject1073PNG markers are always required whether a sub-ject is overt or not.
PNG is not marked for objects.Lg.
Items Gram- Ungram- Coverage/matical matical Over-generation (%)Arabic 13 10 3 90/0Finnish 11 9 3 100/0Hausa 20 8 12 100/0Tamil 7 5 2 100/0Table 3: Illustrative Languages ResultsAs shown in Table 3 we achieved 100% cov-erage over every test suite in this set except forArabic.
In addition, there was no overgenerationor spurious ambiguity.
One Arabic item did notparse because the current implementation of ouranalyses does not elegantly account for obligatoryobject marking (with object drop) on some tran-sitive verbs and optional object marking on oth-ers.
We could have customized a grammar thatincluded another, parallel set of lexical rules thatwould account for this item.
Improvements to thisaspect of the argument optionality library dependon upgrades to the morphotactic system.5.3 Set 3: Held-out LanguagesFinally, we tested a set of ?held out?
languagesnot considered during development and chosen fortheir geographic and genetic diversity without re-gard for argument dropping patterns.
We had pre-viously created the non-argument optionality por-tions of these test suites and choices files to testthe coverage of other libraries in the customiza-tion system and thus they include a wider varietyof linguistic phenomena than Sets 1 or 2.
As be-fore, the construction and grammaticality judge-ments of the strings were based on descriptivegrammars: Chirikba 2003 (Abkhaz), Press 1979(Chemehuevi), Smirnova 1982 and Newman 2000(Hausa), Pensalfini 2003 (Jingulu), Asher andKumari 1997 (Malayalam), Taylor 1985 (Nkore-Kiga), and Fortescue 2003 (W. Greenlandic).Due to space constraints, we provide only asummary of the argument optionality patterns inthese languages (Table 4).
All the languages li-censed both subject and object dropping and intwo of the six, dropping pronominal argumentswas strongly preferred.
Three languages haveword order constraints on how argument option-ality is realized: Abkhaz restricts the appearanceof one of the third person affixes depending onverb-object order.
Nkore-Kiga requires and pro-hibits the appearance of an object marker depend-ing on where the overt object occurs.
Chemehuevirequires that the clitic which is used to mark thesubject appear in second position.
It is also theonly language that has lexical constraints on ob-ject dropping.
Malayalam was the only languagewhich did not mark person, number, and genderinformation for the subject.The customized grammars were able to accountfor the majority of the patterns demonstrated inthese languages (Table 5).
We achieved 100%coverage on four languages with zero (Jingulu,Malayalam, West Greenlandic) or moderate (Abk-haz) overgeneration.
The main source of errorsfound in the results is the handling of word or-der constraints: The grammars were unable to li-cense (Chemehuevi) or restrict (Nkore-Kiga andAbkhaz) argument optionality based on the verb?sand argument?s positions in the sentence.
Oncethe Grammar Matrix word order library has beenimproved and is able to account for second po-sition clitics and fine-grained head-complementword order constraints, it will be a simple pro-cess to add the new feature(s) to existing lexicalrules to account for these patterns.
Incorporatingthe new functionality will not require any majorchanges to the argument optionality library asidefrom modifying the questionnaire to elicit the newinformation from the user.Language Items Gram- Un- Coverage/mat- gram- Overgen-ical matical eration (%)Abkhaz 10 6 4 100/10Chemehuevi 8 6 2 83.3/0Jingulu 9 6 3 100/0Malayalam 4 4 0 100/0Nkore-Kiga 10 4 6 100/83.3W.
Greenlandic 5 3 2 100/0Table 5: Held-out Language ResultsIn addition, we verified that the addition of ar-gument optionality didn?t reduce coverage on anyother portion of these testsuites.
This indicatesthat the new argument optionality library is inter-acting properly with existing libraries.
Additionalinteractions will be tested as we add new librariesto the customization system.1074Object Dropping Subject Dropping Word Order Constraints Lexical ConstraintsAbkhaz opt opt yes noneChemehuevi opt opt yes yesJingulu opt opt none noneMalayalam opt opt no noneNkore-Kiga pref pref yes noneW.
Greenlandic pref pref none noneTable 4: Existence of and constraints on argument optionality in six languages6 Related WorkSubject dropping has been studied extensivelywithin theoretical linguistics under many differ-ent frameworks (Rizzi, 1986; Bresnan, 2001;Ackema et al, 2006; Ginzburg and Sag, 2000).Within the context of HPSG, our analysis is simi-lar to the one in the Grammar Matrix-derived Por-tuguese grammar (Branco and Costa, 2008) and toMu?ller?s (2009) treatment of subject dropping inMaltese.
These analyses differ from Ginzburg andSag?s (2000) HPSG analysis which uses languagespecific variations on the Argument RealizationPrinciple to control whether the subject/object isplaced onto the COMPS and/or SUBJ lists.Language specific analyses have been imple-mented in deep, broad-coverage grammars forlanguages such as Japanese (Masuichi et al(2003), Siegel and Bender (2002)) and Portuguese(Branco and Costa (2008)).
Within the ParGramproject (Butt et al, 2002), Kim et al (2003) wereable to directly port the argument optionality re-lated rules from a Japanese grammar to Korean.However, to our knowledge, no one has imple-mented an analysis that has been applied to a largenumber of typologically, geographically, and ge-netically diverse languages.7 ConclusionOur current work has focused on modeling thevariation in syntactic constraints on the licens-ing and restriction of argument dropping.
To ourknowledge, this is the first analysis of argumentoptionality that combines typological breadthwith precision analyses that have been imple-mented and tested on a number of geographicallyand genetically diverse languages.
Although wehave tried to account for the patterns found in thetypological literature, there may be variants thatwe are unaware of.
We hope to learn of more pat-terns as the Grammar Matrix customization sys-tem is applied to an ever wider set languages.While the current work focuses on syntacticvariation, we intend to expand the argument op-tionality library to include semantic distinctionsas well.
A likely starting point would be the pro-posal given by Bender and Goss-Grubbs (2008)who present a way to model the discourse status(Prince, 1981) of an NP taking into account thedifferences between definite and indefinite null in-stantiation described by Fillmore (1986).
In addi-tion, ongoing work to improve the word order li-brary may eventually allow us to more accuratelymodel word-order based constraints.AcknowledgmentsThis material is based upon work supported bythe National Science Foundation under Grant No.0644097.
Any opinions, findings, and conclusionsor recommendations expressed in this material arethose of the authors and do not necessarily reflectthe views of the National Science Foundation.ReferencesAckema, Peter, Patrick Brandt, Maaike Schoorlemmer,and Fred Weerman, editors.
2006.
Arguments andAgreement.
Oxford University Press, Oxford.Ajdukiewicz, Kazimierz.
1935.
Die syntaktische kon-nexita?t.
Studia Philosophica, 1:1?27.Asher, R.E.
and T.C.
Kumari.
1997.
Malayalam.Routledge, NY.Asher, R.E.
1985.
Tamil.
Croom Helm, London.Bar-Hillel, Yehoshua.
1953.
A quasi-arithmetical no-tation for syntactic description.
Language, 29:47?58.Bender, Emily M. and David Goss-Grubbs.
2008.
Se-mantic representations of syntactically marked dis-course status in crosslinguistic perspective.
In Proc.2008 Conference on Semantics in Text Processing,pages 17?29.1075Bender, Emily M., Dan Flickinger, and StephanOepen.
2002.
The grammar matrix: An open-source starter-kit for the rapid development of cross-linguistically consistent broad-coverage precisiongrammars.
In Proc.
Workshop on Grammar Engi-neering and Evaluation at COLING 2002, pages 8?14.Bender, Emily M., Scott Drellishak, Antske Fokkens,Michael Wayne Goodman, Daniel P. Mills, LauriePoulson, and Safiyyah Saleem.
2010.
Grammarprototyping and testing with the LinGO GrammarMatrix customization system.
In Proc.
ACL 2010Software Demonstrations.Branco, Anto?nio and Francisco Costa.
2008.
A com-putational grammar for deep linguistic processing ofPortuguese: LXGram, version a.4.1.
Technical re-port, University of Lisbon, Dept.
of Informatics.Bresnan, Joan.
2001.
Lexical Functional Syntax.Blackwell, Boston.Butt, Miriam, Helge Dyvik, Tracy Holloway King, Hi-roshi Masuichi, and Christian Rohrer.
2002.
Theparallel grammar project.
In Proc.
Workshop onGrammar Engineering and Evaluation at COLING2002, pages 1?7.Chirikba, Viachesiav.
2003.
Abkhaz.
LINCOM, Mu-nich.Copestake, Ann, Dan Flickinger, Carl Pollard, andIvan A.
Sag.
2005.
Minimal recursion semantics:An introduction.
Research on Language & Compu-tation, 3(4):281?332.Copestake, Ann.
2002.
Implementing Typed FeatureStructure Grammars.
CSLI, Stanford.Dryer, Matthew.
2008.
Expression of proniminalsubjects.
In Haspelmath, Martin, Matthew Dryer,David Gil, and Bernard Comrie, editors, The WorldAtlas of Language Structures Online, chapter 101.Max Planck Digital Library.Fillmore, Charles.
1986.
Pragmatically controlledzero anaphora.
In Proc.
12th annual meeting of theBerkeley Linguistics Society, pages 95?107.Fortescue, Michael.
2003.
West Greenlandic.
CroomHelm, London.Ginzburg, Johnathan and Ivan Sag.
2000.
Interroga-tive Investigations.
CSLI, Stanford.Kim, Roger, Mary Dalrymple, Ronald M. Kaplan,Tracy Holloway King, Hiroshi Masuichi, andTomoko Ohkuma.
2003.
Multilingual grammar de-velopment via grammar porting.
In ESSLLI 2003Workshop on Ideas and Strategies for MultilingualGrammar Development, pages 49?56.Masuichi, Hiroshi, Tomoko Ohkuma, HirokiYoshimura, and Yasunari Harada.
2003.
Japaneseparser on the basis of the lexical-functional gram-mar formalism and its evaluation.
In Dong Hong Ji,Kim Teng Lua, editor, Proc.
PACLIC17, pages298?309.Miller, Philip H. and Ivan A.
Sag.
1997.
French cliticmovement without clitics or movement.
NaturalLanguage & Linguistic Theory, 15(3):573?639.Mu?ller, Stefan.
2009.
Towards an HPSG analysis ofMaltese.
In et al Bernard Comrie, editor, Introduc-ing Maltese linguistics.
Papers from the 1st Inter-national Conference on Maltese Linguistics, pages83?112.
Benjamins, Amsterdam.Newman, Paul.
2000.
The Hausa Language: An ency-clopedic reference grammar.
Yale University Press,New Haven.Pensalfini, Rob.
2003.
A Grammar of Jingulu: AnAboriginal language of the Northern Territory.
Pa-cific Linguistics, Canberra.Pollard, Carl and Ivan A.
Sag.
1994.
Head-DrivenPhrase Structure Grammar.
The University ofChicago Press, Chicago, IL.Press, Margaret.
1979.
Chemehuevi: A grammar andlexicon.
University of California Press, Berkeley.Prince, Ellen.
1981.
Toward a taxonomy of given-newinformation.
In Cole, P., editor, Radical Pragmat-ics, pages 223?255.
Academic Press, NY.Rizzi, Luigi.
1986.
Null objects in Italian and the the-ory of pro.
Linguistic Inquiry, 17(3):501?557.Siegel, Melanie and Emily M. Bender.
2002.
Ef-ficient deep processing of Japanese.
In Proc.
3rdWorkshop on Asian Language Resources and Inter-national Standardization at COLING 2002.Smirnova, Mirra A.
1982.
The Hausa Language: ADescriptive Grammar.
Routledge, Boston.Suleiman, Saleh M. 1990.
The semantic functions ofobject deletion in classical arabic.
Language Sci-ences, 12(2-3):255 ?
266.Sulkala, Helena and Karjalaninen Merja.
1992.Finnish.
Routledge, NY.Taylor, Charles.
1985.
Nkore-Kiga.
Croom Helm,London.Vainikka, Anne and Yonata Levy.
1999.
Empty sub-jects in Finnish and Hebrew.
Natural Language andLinguistic Theory, 17:613?671.1076
