,C ..~1965 International Conference on Computational LinguisticsSOME CO~ONENTS OF A PROGRm',\[ FOR DYNAMIC MODELLINGOF HISTORICAL CHANGE IN'LANGUAGESheldon KleinCarnegie Institute of TechnologyPittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213USAandSystem Deve lopment  C.OrporationSanta Monica, CaliforniaUSA\.~o 0 ."
,0 <>.
.
\2FKlein i.SOME COMPONENTS OF A PROGRAM FOR DYNg.MIC MODELLINGOF HISTORICAL CHANGE IN LANGUAGESheldon KleinABSTRACTA system that is to serve as a vehicle for testing modelsof language change is being programmed in jOVIAL.
Inherent inthe design of the system is the requirement that each member ofa speech community be represented by a generation grammar and arecognition grammar.
The units of interaction in a simulationare conversations.
Grammar rules may be borrowed or lost byindividuals during the course of a simulation.
The rules them-selves need not be limited to those suggested by a particulartheory of lanquaqe; also, they may refer to any or all levelsof linguistic phenomena.
Extralinquistic factors pertinentto language change may be incorporated in simulations.Klein I.1.0 The Simulation SystemA general simulation system which is to serve as a device fortesting of hypotheses about language change through time is beingprogram~ned in JOVIAL, an ALGOL language, and is partially operation-1 a!
on the Philco computer (4).
The basic assumptions about thenature of language change inherent in the design of the Programinclude the notion of generation grammar, Bloomfield's concept ofspeech community (i), and Sapir's concept of genetic drift (5).Aside from these built in concepts, the program is designed as avehicle for testing models of language change as a function ofvariables selected at the discretion of an experimenter.
It isintended that the simulation system be sufficiently flexible to workwith either transformational or stratificational models of language;to simulate the interaction of members of a speech community amongthemselves and with members of other communities; to model specialrelations among particular members, e.g.
family groups and socialclasses; to simulate multilanguage acquisition; and to model thetransmission of language from generation to generation.A basic assumption of the simulation system is that theinteraction among members of a speech community is the prime1This research is supported in part by Grant ~4}{-07722, NationalInstitutes of Health, United States Public Health Services (tothe Carnegie Institute of Technology).Klein 2.focal point of language change.
Each member of a speech communityor sample from a speech community is represented by boZh a generationgrammar and a recognition grammar.
Members  of a community who arefamiliar with more than one language may be represented by additionalgray,mars.
The contents of the grammars may vary among individuals.Grammars of newborn children would be empty.
An adult enteringa new community as a speaker of an alien language might acquire anempty recognition and generation grammar to supplement the nonemptyones representing the languages he knows.The basic units of interaction are speech forms produced inresponse to other speech forms.
~ primary function of the systemis to simulate conversations among members of a speech community.During the course of a conversation, one individual will generatea form and another will attempt to parse it.
Should the parser'srules be inadequate for the task, he maybor row the necessary rulesfrom the generation grammar of the speaker, and perhaps use it whenit is his turn to speak.
Note that a bilingual speaker mightattempt parsings with rules from all of his grammars.Many decisions within the simulation system are made withthe use of random numbers and functions governing the transitionfrom one state of events to another.
Monte Carlo techniques willbe used in conducting simulations.
Basically, the term refers tothe use of random elements to solve essentially deterministicproblems which may be too complicated to solve by deterministicmethods.
Accordingly, to evaluate the predictions of such a system,it is essential to determine the effects of different choices ofKlein 3.random numbers numbers upon the results, if the model is deter-ministic, the results of repeated trials relying on differentinputs of random numbers should be similar.2.0 ComponentsThe basic components of the the simulation system consist ofa table containing the grammar rules and parameters associated witheach individual in the simulation; a generation and parsing devicethat makes use of the grammars of interacting individuals; a tableof functional relationships containing the rules of interactionpertinent to a particular simulation model; and, finally, a monitorprogram thai determines the flow of the simulation and the passageof time, and that periodically takes a census to inform the experiment-er of the changes occuring at various stages of the simulation.The first version of the simulation system is being constructedaround the author's automatic essay paraphrasing system (2) whichproduces essaylike paraphrases of an input consisting of a restrictedEnglish text and an outline of the desired output essay.
Thesyntactic style of the output is controlled by manipulation ofparameters pertaininq to the frequency of usage of specific generationgrammar rules (3).The table of functional relationships thai contains the definitionof a particular model of language change might include rules express-ing such features as:i.
Members of the same social group are more l ikely to speakto each other than.to members of other groups.2.
Each time an individual interacts with a particular memberof the community the probability of future interactions with thaiKlein 4.member increases.More complex functions pertaining to particular socio-culturalconditions might also be used.Other functions might control the deletion of infrequentlyused grammar rules, or the shift of a grammar rule from a recognitionqrammar to a qeneration qrammar.The monitoring system is designed to work with a mixed assort-ment of functional relationships pertaining to very differentphenomena.
At a given decision point the monitor scans thetable of functions sequentially until it finds an applicable item.3.0 A Hand SimulationThe nature and function of the basic components can be illustratedby a hand simulation of the flow of an extremely simple languagemodel.Let the population contain six members: JOHN, ~4ARY, HELEN,PETER, HE~.~N and BABY.
Let each have a separate generation andrecognition grammar.
Let each be assigned a status in the rangeof .Ol to .99, and let the letters A,B,C,D,E,F represent the grammarrules existinq in the community.
(See table i.)
The content ofthe rules is deliberately left unspecified.
The rules may refer tosemantics, syntax, morphology and/or phonology.
Each rule isassociated with a weighted frequency.
A rule with a frequency weightless than a specified threshold value (.i in this simulation) canexist only in a recognition grammar.
A rule with a frequency weightgreater than or equal to the threshold must exist both in an individual'sgeneration and recognition grammars.
A rule existing in both grammarshas the same frequency weight in each.
A rule whose weight dropsKlein 5.JOHN@RT0,0 T0,1 T0,2 T0,3 TI,0 TI,I.
T1, 2S .8 S .8A .5 A .47C .5 C .48D .5 D .53A .5 A .47B .04 B .02C .5 C .48D .5 D .53Y~RYGRS .7 S .72 S .7 S .64A ;5B .5D .5A .5B .5D .5E .O8Popular ionTable 1' Klein 6.HELENGRT0,0 T0,1 TO, 2 TO, 3 T~, 0 TI, 1 TI, 2S .4B .5E .5B .SC .02E .5F .06S .4B .48E .5F .iSB .48E .5F .15PETERCRmS .3B .5E .5F .5B .5D .08E .5F .5S .32 S .38Table 1 Cont.S .38Klein 7.GRT0,0S .6B .5C .5B .5C .5D .02TO, 1m?0,2S .6B .53C .48B .53C .48A .07r~=0,3 Ti,O Tl iS .6C .46B .57" 46 t .
,  .A .05F .05TI,2BABYGRmS .4 S .4A .07B .07D .07S .4B .16A .05B .16D .05E .05F .05Table i Cont.?
Klein 8.below a minimum value (.i in this simulation) is deleted from allqrammars.Table 1 contains a record of the various states of the speechcommunity at time Ti,j, where i refers to a major cycle--a singleindividual's interaction with a variety of speakers, and where jrefers to a minor cycle--the interval of an interaction with a singlespeaker.
At each increment in the value i, the monitor randomlyselects a member as speaker for a major cycle."
The monitor thenscans the population Sequentially to determine which members areto be auditors of the speaker.
The determination follows theappropriate function contained in table 2.
Each time an auditoris selected, the minor cycle time j is incremented by i. Whenthe monitor has scanned the entire community, the speaker's turnis over and a new one is selected to ~ o~ the next major Cycle.At the beginning of each major cycle the j or minor cycle valueis set to zero.
The data in column T0, 0 of table 1 are startlngdata supplied by the author.
The  data existing at Ti, j is usedin comDutinq the state of events during Ti,j~ 1 .
Blank entriesin table 1 indicate that the state of events is unchanged fromthe previous interval.Table 2 contains the list of active rules refered to by themonitor during the course of the simulation.
All computed valuesqreater than or equal to 1 are rounded to .99; values computed atless than or equal to 0 are rounded to .01~ in all cases, computedvalues are rounded to the second decimal place.Klein 9!.
Probabil ity of x speaking to y:Psi(X,y) = .I/Stalust.i(x) - staiusi .!
(y) /2.
Frequency weight of recognition rule m at time t after use inparsing:Ft(m) = Ft.l(m) (Ft_l(m) - relative frequency of m)in iparsinq at time t53.
Frequency of rule not used in parsing at time t:Fi(m) = Fi.l(m) - .024.
Threshold frequency weight for adding or  removing a rulefrom a qeneration grammar:.i5.
Threshold frequency weight for removing rule from a recognitiongramma r :.016.
Status of speaker x after speaking to auditor y:Statust(x) = Statust.i(x) - (Statust.l(x) - otatus~_\](v)5\[FunctionsTable 2Klein i0.The simulation begins at time T0, 1 rather than at time T0, 0 forinitialization purposes:T0,1The monitor selects }&~RY as speaker for the 0 cycle, andexamines the list of potential auditors.
The first candidate isJOHN.
Accordinq to function 1 of table 2 the probability of }4ARYspeakinq 9o /OHN is .
i  divided by the absolute value of the statusdifference of the pair:.i =-.99 (rounded)/ .7 VS-/"Y~RY will speak to JOHN because the random n~mber qenerator of themonitor fails to yield a value greater than .99.
Assume that ~v~Ygenerates the form:G(A, 2D)which is to be interpreted as indicatinq tha~ in the generation,JO~N is able to parse the rule A was used once, rule D twice, u.-form with his o~ ~ecoqnition~rules, and their frequency weightsare a!tered accordinq to functions 2 and 3 in table 2.
Rule Ais computed as:.5 - (.5 - .33) : .475Rule D as:.5 -  ( .5  - .77)  - .535~ $OHN's recoqnition rules B and C were not used in the parsinq; afterfunction 3 of table 2each  of their weiqhts is decremented by .02 .According to function 6 of table 2, }~RY's new status becomes:,7  - ( .7 -  .8 )  _ .725Klein ii.T0,2The mon i to r  searches  fo r  Y~,RY's next  aud i to r .
,,~,~?v~ i s sk ippedas  a ,cand idate .
HELEN.
i s  next .
The probab i l i ty  o f  IVLARY speak ing  ?io HELEN after function !
of table 2 is: ' '.!
: !7.
'7"2" -  .
4:/-Assume HELEN is rejected as an auditor because monitor's randomnumber generator produces a value greater than this.
Assume thatthe next auditor candidate, PETER, is also rejected.
The monitorthen selects HERf~IAN as the next candidate.
Now assume that HER\]v~Nis selected as auditor after appropriate computations.
Let f,\[ARY'sgenerated utterance be:@(A, 2B)~.~,,,~ musfi borrow rule A froml YblRY's generation grammar to completethe parsing?
Rule A enters HER~'~%N,s recognition grammar, by function 2of table 2, with a value:0-  (0  - ?33)  : .07"" 5 ' " 'Since this value is less than .i, it does not enter HERMAN'sgeneration grammar.
The new value of B is computed as:.5  - ( .5  - .67)  - .535The rules not used in parsing are decremented by 02 HE~IIA~ srecognition rule D, accordingly, drops below the minimum retentionvalue of ?0~,and is deleted from his recognition grammar.Klein 12~,'~.RY's status is now computed as:.72  - (,:72 - .6) -5.7T0,3BABY is the next candidate for MARY's a'uditor.
Assume thatthe monitor accepts BABY as a listener, and that ~RY tells him:G(A,B,D)BABY must borrow every pertinent rule from MARY's grammar, eachwith a frequency weight,computed by function 2 of table ?.,that is:0 - (0  - .33)  - .075~L%RY's new s~atus is now computed as:.7 -  ( .7 -  .4) : .645The monitor has exhausted the list of candidates for auditor anda new speaker must be selected randomly.
'~71,0Let PETER be selected as the new speaker.
Assume that IOHNand ~LiRY are rejected as auditors, but that HELEN is accepted:G(E, F)Rule E is inHELEN's  recognition grammar and its new weight is:.5 -  ( .5  - .5 )  - .55remaining unchanged.
The~weiqht:.of rule F is computed as:.06  - ( .06  - .5 )  - .155and after function 4 of table 2, ?
enters her generation grammar.H=LsN's unused rules are decremented by .02 .PETER's new status is:.3  - .
( ,3  - .4 )  - .325TI,IKlein 13.Assume HER},t%N is picked as PETER's next auditor, and PETERsays :G(SB, F)Rule B i s  in HEF?4AN's grammar and its new frequency weight is:.53  - ( .53  - .75)  - .57, , , , ,5Ru le  F i s  bor rowed f rom PETER 's  g rammar  and  enters  HER~AN's  generat iongrammar with a value:0 - (0 - .25) : .055HER~N's  unused rules are each decremented by .02 .
PETER's newstatus is :.32  - \ [ .32  - .6 )  - .385TI ,2Assume the monitor determines BABY to be the next auditor, andthat PETER generates:@(2B, E,F)Ru le  B is in BABY's.
recognit ion grammar and it's new weight is:.O7-  ( ,O7  - .5 )  -, .
.~65 ""Accordingly, rule B enters BABY's generation grammar.Rules E and F must be borrowed from PETER, and each entersKlein 14.BABY's recognition grammar with a weight:0 - (0 - .25)  : .05'"5 'The rules not used in the parsing are each decremented by .02 .PETER's new status is:.38  - ( .38  - .4 )  : .38'54.0 DiscussionThe preceding hand S'imulation should be sufficient to illustratethe operation of the simulation system.
Anticipated computersimulations will involve 50 to 100 individuals, each associated withseveral<hundred grammar rules, iUnique ~ parsings can be obtainedby using 6xistinq frequency weights to determine preferentialapplicability of 'rules.
The functions contained in table 2can be qreatly extended in number and content.
One miqht wishto add special rules for interaction between :parent ,'and Child, spouses,and among members of the same age'group, etc., plus a mechanismfor determining the birth and death of various members.
The statusfactor might be divided into weights refering to social status, aqe,geographical proximity and the like.The ideal test of the validity of a simulation is prediction.Hopefully, one miqht predict an attested state of a language froma model of an attested earlier stage.
A major problem in suchtesting may be i i~.xlreme sensitivity of a model to the choice ofparameter values and constants.
For example, the constants inthe functions of table 2 seem to have the effect of making BABYlearn too quickly.
One might use a higher rate of decay for unusedKlein 15.rules to decrease the learning rate.
The need for trial anderror manipulation of values will increase with the complexityof a model.
Accordingly, one might start with simple models,increasing the complexity by stages.The author's immediate research goal is to produce a stabilitysimulation involving about 50 members,each associated with asimple phrase structure gra~nar of ~ nqmish, over a time span of3 or 4 qenerations--a simulation in which the language at the startof the simulation is reasonably similar to the language existingat the conclusion.Referencesi.
Bloomfield, L. Lanquaqe.
New York: Holt, Rinehart, 19S3.2.
Klein, S. Automatic Paraphrasing in Essay Format.Mechanical Translation.In press,3.
Klein, S. Control of Style with a Generative Grammar.Language.In press,4.
Klein, S. Dynamic Simulation of Historical Change in LanguageUsing Monte Carlo Techniques.
SP-1908, System Develo3mentCorporation, Santa Monica, December 1984.5.
Sapir, E. Language.
New York: Harcourt, Brace, 1921.
