201965 I n te rnat iona l  Conference  onComputational LinguisticsENDOCENTRIC CONSTRUCTIONS AND TIlE COCKEPARSING LOGICJ ane  J .
Rob insonThe RAND Corporat ion1700 Main S t reetSanta  Monica  D Ca l i fo rn ia  90406h.- Uo/~ xI _~, ..~.'
~ '%.
"~,.\Robinson 2ABSTRACTAutomatic syntactic analysis is simplified by dis-engaging the grammatical rules, by means of a parsinglogic, from the computer routines that apply them.
A casein point is the John Cocke logic.
It iterates on fivesimple parameters and finds all structures permitted bythe grammar, thus testing the rules, which can then bechanged without changing the routines.
The rules them-selves need not be ordered so far as the logic of thesystem is concerned.
However, in operating with an ICgrammar, rules for bracketing endocentric constructionsmust be made quite complex merely to avoid multiple analy-ses of unambiguous or trivially ambiguous expressions.The rules can be simplified if they are classified andif the system is provided with an additional capabilityfor applying them in a specified order.
Although anadditional parameter is introduced into the system, thedisengagement of grammar from routine is preserved.
Theadditional parameter controls the direction, left-to-rightor right-to-left, in which constructions are put together.The decision as to which direction should be specified isa grammatical decision, and is related to Yngve's hypothe-sis of asymmetry in language.
It does not affect the opera-tion of the parsing logic.Robinson 3ACKNOWLEDGMENTSI wish to acknowledge the ass i s tance  of M. Kay andS.
Marks in  d i scuss ing  po in ts  ra i sed  in the paper and inprepar ing  the f lowchar t .
A more genera l  acknowledgment i sdue to D. G. Hays,  who f i r s t  ca l led  my at tent ion  to theproblem of o rder in~ the a t tachment  of  e lements .Robinson 4ENDOCENTRIC CONSTRUCTIONS AND THECOCKE PARSING LOGICAutomat ic  sentence  s t ruc ture  determinat ion  (SSD) i sg reat ly  s imp l i f ied  i f ,  through the in tervent ion  of apars ing  log ic ,  the grammat ica l  ru les  that  determine  thes t ruc ture  are par t ia l l y  d i sengaged from the computer rou-t ines  that  apply  to them.
Some ear l ie r  pars ing  programsana lyzed  sentences  by rout ines  that  b ranched accord ing  tothe grammat ica l  p roper t ies  or s igna ls  encountered  at par -t i cu la r  points in the sentence, making the routines them-selves serve as the rules.
This not only required separateprograms for each language, but led to extreme proliferationin the routines, requiring extensive rewriting and debu~gin~with every discovery and incorporation of a new ~rammaticalfeature.
More recently, programs for SSD have employedgeneralized parsing logics, applicable to different lan-guages and providing primarily for an exhaustive and sys-tematic application of a set of rules.
(1,2,5,5) The rulesthemselves can be changed without changing the routinesthat apply them, and the routines consequently take fulleradvantage of the speed with which digital computers canrepeat the same sequence of instructions over and overagain, changing only the values of some parameters at eachcycle.Rob inson  SThe case in point is the parsing logic (PL) devisedby John Cocke in 1960, for applying the rules of a context-free phrase structure grammar (PSG), requiring that eachstructure recognized by the grammar be analyzed into twoand only two immediate constituents.
(I)Although all PSGs appear to be inadequate in someimportant respects to the task of handling natural lan-guage, they still form the base of the more powerfultransformational grammars, which are not yet automatedfor SSD.
Moreover, even their severest critic acknowledgesthat "The PSG conception of grammar...is a quite reasonabletheory of natural language which unquestionably formalizesmany actual properties of human language.
"(6,P "78) Boththeoretically and empirically the development and automaticapplication of PSGs are of interest to linguists.The PSG on which the Cocke Pl, operates is essentiallya table of constructions.
Its rules have three entries,one for the code (a descriptor) of the construction, theother two specifying the codes of the ordered pair ofimmediate constituents out of which it may be formed.The logic iterates in five nested loops, controlled bythree simple parameters and two codes supplied by thegrammar.
They are: i) the string length, starting withlength 2, of the segment being tested for constructionalRobinson 6s ta tus ;  2) the  pos i t ion  of the f i r s t  word in the  tes teds t r ing ;  3) the  length  of  the  f i r s t  const i tuent ;  4) thecodes of  the  f i r s t  const i tuent ;  and 5) the  codes of  thesecond const i tuent .A f te r  a d ic t ionary  lookup rout ine  has ass i~.ned grammarcodes to a l l  the  occur rences  in  the  sentence  or  to ta ls t r ing  to  be parsed  ( i t  need not  be a sentence) ,  the PLoperates  to o f fe r  the  codes of  pa i rs  o f  ad jacent  segmentsto a pars ing  rout ine  that  tes ts  the i r  connectab i l i ty  bylook ing  them up in  the  s tored  tab le  of  const ruct ions ,  i .e .
,in the  grammar.
I f  the  ordered  pa i r  i s  matched by a pa i rof ICs in  the  tab le ,  t i le code of  the  const ruct ion  formedby the  ICs is  added to  the  l i s t  of  codes to be o f fe redfo r  tes t in~ when i te ra t ions  are per fo rmed on longer  s t r ings .In the RAND program for  pars ing  Eng l i sh ,  the  rout inesproduce  a labe led  b inary -branch ing  t ree  fo r  every  completes t ruc tura l  ana lys i s .
There w i l l  be one t ree  i f  the  grammarrecogn izes  the  s t r ing  as we l l - fo rmed and syntact i ca l l yunambiguous ;  more than  one i f  i t  i s  recogn ized  as ambiguous .Even i f  no complete  ana lys i s  i s  made of  the  whole s t r ing ,a resum~ l i s t s  a l l  const ruct ions  found in  the  process ,including those which failed of inclusion in larger con-structions.
(8,9)*This  in teract ion  between a PL and a rout ine  fo r  tes t ingthe connectab i l i ty  of  two i tems is  descr ibed  in somewhatgreater  deta i l  in Hays (2 ) .Rob ins on 7Besides simplifying the problem of revising the grammarby separating it from the problem of application to sen-tences, the PL, because it leads to an exhaustive applicationof the rules, permits a rigorous evaluation of thegrammar's ability to assign structures to sentences andalso reveals many unsuspected yet legitimate ambiguitiesin those sentences.
(4, 7) But because of the difficulties in-herent in specifying a sufficiently discriminatory set ofrules for sentences of any natural language and becauseof the very many syntactic ambiguities, resolvable onlythrough lar~er context, this method of parsing producesa long list of intermediate constructions for sentencesof even modest length, and this in turn raises a storageprob lem.By way of illustration, consider a string of fouroccurrences, x I x 2 x 3 x4, a dictionary that assigns asingle grammar code to each, and a grammar that assignsa unique construction code to every different combinationof adjacent segments.
Given such a grammar, as in Table I,the steps in its application to the string by the parsingroutines operating with the Cocke PL are represented inTable II.
(The preliminary dictionary lookup assigningthe original codes to the occurrences is treated as equiv-alent to iterating with the parameter for string lengthset to I ) .Rob inson  8Table IRule # ICl IC2 COI.
A B E2o B C F3.
c D o4.
A F H5.
E C I6.
B G J7.
F D I<ICl:IC2:code of first constituentcode of second constituentRule # iCl 102 CO8.
A J L9.
A K MlO.
E G Nii.
H D12.
I D P13.
A C Q14.
etc.CC: code of constructionTable IISteps?i ~ M W P C(P) C(Q) C(M) Rule ~ Combined Structure AssignedI.
i I i A A2.
1 2 i B B3.
I 3 \] c c4.
1 4 1 D DDictionary x Ilookup x 2assio~ning x 3codes to: x 45.
?6.
27.
28.
39.
3I0.
xll.
312.
413.
414.
415.
416.
4#:P:c(P).i 12 i3 11 1!
22 I21 1 AI I ,'.I o Ei 3 H1 3 iA RB C FC D GA F H~ C IB G JF D KJ Li,; MO >TD i'stel; numberstrinj \].en~Tth of segmentI t3.o5.6.7.~o9.\].0.Ii.12.lenr'th of first constructions t,-ingcode of first construction1+2 (Xl+X 2 )2+3 (x2~x 3)~+4 (x3+x 4)5+3 < (Xl+~2)~," 3 )?
2+7 (x2(x3+x 4) )/ X 6~ (~x2+.
3)x4)c(M).i+i0!+ll5+78+49+4(x1(x2(x3+x4)))(Xl((x2+x3)%))( (:c I ,x~) (~ 3?~4) )( (xj (x2+x 5) )xg)(((x l+x2)x ~)xL~)code of second const, stringcode for string, to be storedwhen C(P) and C(Q) are matchedin the o~r_ammar.C(M) = CC of crammar.The boxed section represents the PL iterations.Rob inson  9With such a grammar, the number of constructions tobe stored and processed through each cycle increases inproportion to the cube of the number of words in thesentence.
If the dictionary and grammar assign more thanone code to occurrences and constructions, the number maygrow multiplicatively, making the storage problem stillmore acute.
For example, if x I were assigned two codesinstead of one, additional steps would be required forevery string in which x I was an element and iteration onstring length 4 would require twice as many cycles andtwice as much storage.Of course, reasonable grammars do not provide forcombining every possible pair of adjacent segments intoa construction, and in actual practice the growth of theconstruction list is reduced by failure to find the twocodes presented by the PL, when the grammar is consulted.If Rule i is omitted from the grammar in Table I, thensteps S, 9, 14, and 16 will disappear from Table II andboth storage requirements and processing time will be cutdown.
Increasing the discriminatory power of the grammarthrough refining the codes so that the first occurrencemust belong to class Aa and the second to class Bb inorder to form a construction provides this limiting effectin essentially the same way.Robinson I0Another way o?
limiting the growth o?
the storedconstructions is to take advantage of the fact that inactual grammars two or more different pairs of constituentssometimes combine to produce the "same" construction.Assume that A and F (Table I) combine to form a construc-tion whose syntactic properties are the same, at leastwithin the discriminatory powers of the grammar, as thoseof the construction formed by E and C. Then Rules 4 and Scan assign the same code, }l, to their constructions.
Inconsequence, at both steps 8 and 9 in the parsing (TableIf), |1 will be stored as the construction code C(M) forthe string x I x 2 x3, even though two substructures arerecorded for it: i.e.
(Xl(X 2 + x3) ) and ((x I + x2)x3).The string can be marked as having more than one structure,but in subsequent iterations on string length 4, only oneconcatenation of the string with x 4 need be made and step16 can be omitted.
When the parsing has terminated, allsubstructures of completed analyses are recoverable,including those of marked strings.Eliminating duplicate codes for the same string fromthe cycles of the PL results in dramatic savings in timeand storage, partly because the elimination of any stephas a cumulative effect, as demonstrated previously.
Inaddition, opportunities to eliminate duplicates arisefrequently, in English at least, because of the frequentRob in s on 11occur rence  o?
endocent r i c  const ruct ions ,  .
const ruct ionswhose syntact i c  p roper t ies  are  la rge ly  the  same as thoseo?
one of  the i r  e lements - - the  head.
In Eng l i sh~ nounphrases  are  typ ica l ly  endocent r i c ,  and when a noun headis flanked by attributives as in a phrase consisting ofarticle, noun, prepositional phrase (A N PP), the require-ment that constructions have only two ICs promotes theassignment of two structures, (A(N+PP)) and (~A+N) PP),unless the grammar has been carefully formulated to avoidit.
Since NPs of this type are ubiquitous, occurrinp,as subjects, objects of verbs, and objects of prepositions,duplicate codes for them are likely to occur at severalpoints in a sentence.Consideration of endocentric constructions, however,raises other questions, some theoretical and some practi-cal, suggesting modification of the grammar and theparsing routines in order to represent the language moreaccurately or in order to save storage, or both.
Theoreti-cally, the problem is the overstructuring of noun phrasesby the insistence on two ICs and the doubtful proprietyof permitting more than one way of structuring them.Practically, the problem is the elimination of duplicateconstruction codes stored for endocentric phrases whenthe codes are repeated for different string lengths.Rob inson  12Cons ider  the  noun phrase  sub jec t  in  A l l  the  o ld  menon the  corner  s ta .
red .
I t s  syntact i c  p roper t ies  a reessent ia l l y  the  same as that  o f  men.
But f i f teen  o therphrases ,  a l l  made up f rom the  same e lements  but  vary ingin  length ,  a l so  have  the  same proper t ies .
They areshown be low:Tab le  I I ILengthI .
72.
65.
64.
65.
56.
57.
5.8.
49.
4i0.
3i i .
312.
313.
214.
215.
216.
1Noun phraseA l l  the  o ld  men on the  cornerThe o ld  men on the  cornerA l l  the  men on the  cornerA l l  o ld  men on the  cornerO ld  men on the  cornerThe men on the  cornerA l l  men on the  cornerMen on the  cornerA l l  the  o ld  menThe o ld  menA l l  the  menA l l  o ld  menOld  menThe menA l l  menMen(s ta red)A reasonab ly  good grammar shou ld  prov ide  fo r  therecogn i t ion  of  a l l  s ix teen  phrases .
Th is  i s  not  to  saythat  s ix teen  separate  ru les  a re  requ i red ,  a l though th i swou ld  be one way o f  do ing  i t .
M in ima l ly ,  the  grammar mustp rov ide  two ru les  fo r  an endocent r i c  NP, one to  combinethe  head  noun or the  s t r ing  conta in ing  i t  w i th  a preced inga t t r ibut ive  and another  to  combine  i t  w i th  a fo l low ingRobinson 13attributive.
The codes for all the resulting constructionsmay be the same, but even so, the longest phrase will re-ceive four different structural assignments or bracketingsas its adjacent elements are gathered together in pairs;(a l l  (the (old (men (on the corner ) ) ) ) )(a l l  (the ((o ld men) (on the corner ) ) ) )(a l l  ( ( the (old men)) (on the corner ) ) )and ( (a l l  (the (old men))) (on the corner))I f  i t  is assumed that  the same code, say that  of ap lura l  NP, has been assigned at each s t r ing  length,  i t  istrue that  only one add i t iona l  step is needed to concatenatethe string with the following verb when the PL iterationis performed for string length 8.
But meanwhile a numberof intermediate codes have been stored during iterationson string lengths 5, 6, and 7 as the position of the firstword of the tested string was advanced, so that the listalso contains codes for:men on the corner stared (length 5)old men on the corner stared (length 6)and the old men on the corner stared (length 7)Again, the codes may be the same, but duplicate codes willnot be eliminated from processing if they are associatedwith different strings, and strings of different length aretreated as wholly different by the PL, regardless of over-lap.
If this kind of duplication is to be reduced orname ly:Robinson 14avo ided ,  a d i f fe rent  p rocedure  i s  requ i red  from that  ava i l -ab le  fo r  the  case  of  s imp le  dup l i ca t ion  over  the  sames t r ing .But f i r s t  a theoret i ca l  quest ion  must be dec ided .Is  the  noun phrase ,  as exempl i f ied  above ,  perhaps  rea l lyfour -ways  ambiguous and do the  four  d i f fe rent  b racket ingscor re la te  sys temat ica l ly  w i th  four  d i s t inc t  in terpreta t ionsor  ass ignments  of  semant ic  s t ruc ture?
(Cf"  4 ,7)  And  i f  so ,i s  i t  des i rab le  to  e l im inate  them?
I t  i s  poss ib le  to  a rguethat  some of  the  d i f fe rent  b racket ings  do cor respond tod i f fe rent  mean ings  or  emphases ,  o r - - in  ear l ie r  t rans forma-t iona l  te rms- - to  d i f fe rent  o rder ings  in the  embeddings  o fthe  men were o ld  and the  men were on the  corner  in to  a l l  themen s tared .
Admi t ted ly  the nat ive  speaker  can ind icatecontrasts in meaning by his intonation, emphasizing in onereading that all the men stared and in another that it wasall the ol___dd men who stared; and the writer can resort toitalics.
But it seems reasonable to assume that there isa normal intonation for the unmarked and unemphatic phraseand that its interpretation is structurally unambiguous.In the absence of italics and other indications, it seems~_~_reasonable to produce four different bracketings at everyencounter with an NP of the kind exemplified.Robinson 15One way to reduce the duplication is to write thegrammar codes so that, with the addition of each possibleelement, the noun head is assigned a different constructioncode whose distribution as a constituent in larger construc-tions is carefully limited.
For the sake of simplicity,assume that the elements of NPs have codes that reflect,in part, their ordering within the phrase and that the NPcodes themselves reflect the properties of the noun headin first position and are subsequently differentiated bycodes in later positions that correspond to those of theat t r ibutes .
Let the codes fo r  the elements be 1 (a l l ) ,2 ( the) ,  3 (o ld ) ,  4 (men), 5 (on the corner ) .
Rules maybe written to restrict the combinations, as follows:Robinson 16Tab le IVR# ICI IC2 CCi ,  1+4 ?412.
2+4 ?423.
3+4 ?434.
4+5 ?455.
i + 42 ?
4126.
1 + 43 ?
4137.
2 + 43 ?
4238.
I + 423 ?
41239.
1 + 45 ?
41S10.
2 ?
45 ?
42SI I .
3 + 45 ?
43512.
2 + 435 ?
423513.
1 ?
4235 ?
41235(a l l  men)(the men)(old men)(men on the corner)(a l l  the men)(a l l  old men)(the old men)(a l l  the old men)(a l l  men on the corner ) ;  but not"41 + S ?
415(the men on the corner ) ;  but  not*42 + 5 ?
425(o ld  men on the corner ) ;  but  not*43 + 5 ?
435( the o ld  men on the corner ) ;  but  not*423 + 5 ?
4235(a l l  the o ld  men on the corner ) ;  butnot  "4123 + 5 ?
41235With these ru les ,  the Rrammar prov ides  for  only ones t ructura l  ass ignment o the s t r ing :  (a l l  ( the (old (men +on the corner ) ) ) ) .This method has the advantage of acknowledging thegenera l  endocent r i c i ty  of the NP whi le a l lowing for  i t sl im i ta t ions ,  so that  where the subt le r  d i f fe rences  amongNPs are not re levant ,  they can be ignored by ignor ingcer ta in  pos i t ions  of the codes, and where they are re levant ,the fu l l  codes are ava i lab le .
The method should lendRobinson 17i t se l f  qu i te  wel l  to code matching rout ines  for  connect-ab i l i ty .
However, i f  car r ied  out fu l l y  and cons is tent ly ,i t  g reat ly  inc reases  the length and complex i ty  of boththe codes and the ru les ,  and th i s  may a lso  be a source ofproblems in s torage  and process ing  t ime.
(c f .
Flays, 2)Another method is to make use of a classification ofthe rules themselves.
Since the lowest loop of the PL(see Fig.
I) iterates on the codes of the second constitu-ents, the rules against which the paired strings aretested are stored as ordered by first IC codes and sub-ordered by second IC codes.
If the iterations of thelogic were differently ordered, the rules would also bedifferently ordered, for efficiency in testing.
In otherwords, the code of one constituent in the test locatesa block of rules within which matches for all the codesof the other constituent are to be sought; but the hierarchyof ordering by one constituent or the other is a matterof choice so long as it is the same for the PL and for storingthe table of rules that constitute the grammar.
In writingand revising the rules, however~ it proves humanly easierif they are grouped according to construction types.Accordingly, all endocentric NPs in the RAND grammar aregiven rule identification tags with an A in first position.Within this grouping, it is natural to subclass the rulesaccording to whether they attach attributives on the rightRobinson 18or  on the  le f t  of  the  noun head .
I f  p roper ly  fo rmal i zed ,th i s  p ract i ce  can lead  to  a reduct ion  in the  mul t ip leana lyses  of  NPs w i th  fewer  ru les  and s imp ler  codes  thanthose  of  the  prev ious  method.As app l ied  to the  example ,  the th i r teen  ru les  andf i ve -p lace  codes of  Tab le  IV can be reduced  to two ru lesw i th  one-p lace  codes and an add i t iona l  feature  in  the  ru leidentification tag.
*AIThe rules can be written as:1 N N23$A2 N 4 NAlthough the construction codes are less finely differen-tiated, the analysis of the example will still be unique,and the number of abortive intermediate constructions willbe reduced.
To achieve this effect, the connectabilitytest routine must include a comparison of the rule tagassociated with each C(P) and the rule tags of the grammar.If a rule of type *A is associated with the C(P), that is,if an *A rule assigned the construction code to the stringP which is now being tested as a possible first constitu-ent, then no rule of type $A can be used in the currenttest.
For all such rules, there will be an automatic"no match" without checking the second constituent codes.
(See Fig.
I.)
As a consequence of this restriction, inRobinson 19the final analysis, the noun head will have been com-bined with all attributives on the right before acquiringany on the left.To be sure, the resume of intermediate constructionswill contain codes for ol___dd men, the old men, and all theol__.dd me__n_n , produced in the course of iterations on stringlengths 2, 3, and 4, but only one structure is finallyassigned to the whole phrase and the intermediate dupli-cations of codes for strings of increasing length willbe fewer because of the hiatus at string length 5.
Ofcourse, in the larger constructions in which the NP par-ticipates, the reduction in the number of stored inter-mediate constructions will be even greater.Provisions may be made in the rules for attachingstill other attributives to the head of the NP withoutgreat increase in complexity of rules or multiplicationof structural analyses.
Rule $A2, for example, couldinclude provision for attaching a relative clause as wellas a prepositional phrase, and while a phrase like themen on the corner who were sad might receive two analysesunless the codes were sufficiently differentiated to pre-vent the clause from being attached to corner as well asto me___n, at least the further differentiation of the codesneed not also be multiplied in order to prevent the multipleanalyses arising from endocentricity.Robinson 20S imi la r ly ,  fo r  verb phrases  where the ru le  must a l lowfo r  an indef in i te  number of  adverb ia l  mod i f ie rs ,  a s ing leana lys i s  can be obta ined  by marking the s t r ings  and theru les  and fo rc ing  a combinat ion  in  a s ing le  d i rec t ion .
Inshor t ,  a l though the  Cocke PL tends to promote mul t ip le  ana ly -s i s  of  unambiguous or t r i v ia l l y  ambiguous endocent r i cphrases ,  at the same t ime increas ing  the problem of s to r ingin termed ia te  const ruct ions ,  the number of  ana lyses  can begreat ly  reduced and the s torage  problem great ly  a l lev ia tedi f  the  ru les  of  the grammar recogn ize  endocent r i c i ty  whereverposs ib le  and i f  they  are c lass i f ied  so that  ru les  fo r  endo-cent r i c  const ruct ions  are marked as le f t  (*) or r ight  ($ ) ,and the i r  o rder  of  app l i ca t ion  is  spec i f ied .A f ina l  theoret i ca l -p ract i ca l  cons iderat ion  can atleas t  be touched on, a l though i t  i s  not poss ib le  to developi t  adequate ly  here .
The fo rego ing  descr ip t ion  prov ided  fo rcombin ing a head w i th  i t s  a t t r ibut ives  (or dependents )  on theright before combining it with those on the left, buteither course is possible.
Which is preferable dependson the type of construction and on the language generally.If Yngve's hypothesis that languages are essentiallyasymmetrical, tending toward right-branching constructionsto avoid overloading the memory, is correct, then theRobinson 21requirement to combine first on the right is pre ferab le .
(10)This is  a pure ly  grammatical  cons iderat ion ,  however, anddoes not affect the procedure sketched above, in principle.For example, consider an endocentric construction of stringlength 6 with the head at position 3, so that its extensionis predominantly to the right, thus: 1 2 (3) 4 5 6.
If allcombinations were allowed by the rules, there would bethirty-four analyses.
If combination is restricted toeither direction, left or right, the number of analyses isreduced to eleven.
However, if the Cocke PL is used toanalyze a left-branching language, making it preferable tospecify prior combination on the left, then the order ofnesting of the fourth and fifth loops of the PL should bereversed (Fig.
I) and the rules of the grammar should bestored in order of their second constituent codes, suborderedon those of the first constituents.Robinson 22N"P:Q:M:Fig.
IFLOWCHART FOR THE COCKE PLsentence lengthstring length of firstconstituentstring length of secondconstituentP+Q - string length ofconstructionW"L(W) :C(P):c (Q) :number of first word of MN-M+I = limit of first wordcode of first constituentcode of second constituentl~ M+I?MI<~ >CONSTRUCTION CODEASSOCIATED WITH M,AND KEEP TRACKINPUT SENTENCE OF LENGTH Ndo dictionary lookupassociate grammar codeswith words and keep track\[SET M EQUAL TO 2\[>ISET L(W) EQUAL TO (N-M+I)l .... SET W EQUAL TO I,<~OMPARE W AND L(W)~\[SET p EQUAL iO I l~OMPARE P AND_~M~---- " \ ]  W+:OUTPUTlI?W Ino more t. l P+I?Pmo reRESET TO FIRST C(Q), GETNEXT C (P)IM-P ICOMPARE C(P), C(Q) WITH DE~IRST IC CODE, SECOND IC COIN THE GRAMMARmatch ~no matchSTORE RULE # AND (~EST FOR MORE C(Q) S~ k ' -  - jno more ~ ~ moreRobinson 23REFERENCES.........I0.
}lays, D. G., "Automatic Language-Data Processing,"Computer Applications in the Behavioral Sciences,Chapter 17, Prentice-Hall, 1962.
}lays, D. G. "Connectability Calculations, syntacticFunctions, and Russian Syntax," Mechanical Transla-tio.___~n, Vol.
8, No.
1 (August 1964).Kuno, S .
,  and A. G. Oet t inger ,  "Mu l t ip le -path  Syntact i cAnalyzer," Mathematical Linguistics and AutomaticTranslation, Report No.
NSF-8, Sec.
TT-The Computa-tion Laboratory of }larvard University, 1965.Kuno, S., and A. G. Oettinger, "Syntactic Structure andAmbiguity of English," AFIPS Conference ProceedingsVol.
24, 1965 Fall Joint--~mputer Con?erence.National Physical Laboratory, 1961 InternationalConference o__n_n Machine Trans-T~ion of Languages andApplied Language Analysis, Vol.
2,-\[\[.
M. StationeryOffice, 1962.Postal, P. M. Constituent Structure, Publication Thirtyof the Indiana Un ivers~rch  Center in Anthro-pology, Folklore, and Linguistics, January 1964.Robinson, J.)
"Automated Grammars as Linguistics Tools,"(Unpublished), Presented at the Thirty=ninth AnnualMeeting of the Linguistic Society of America, NewYork, December 1964.Robinson, J., The Automatic Recognition of PhraseStructure and Paraphrase, RM-4005-PR (Abridlged),The RAND Corporation, Santa Monica, December 1964.Robinson, J., Preliminary Codes and Rules for the AutomaticParsing of English, RM-S339-PR, =The RAN\]) Corporation,Santa Mort}ca, December 1962.Yngve, V.
li., "A Model and an Hypothesis for LanguageStructure," Proceedings of the American PhilosophicalSociety, Vol.
104, No.
S--\[Oct-~e-r 1960).
