?by John Olney , Carter Revard, and Paul ZiffThe work reported herein was supported by contract F1962867C0004,InfOrmation Processing Techniques, with the Electronic SystemsDivision, Air force Systems Command, for the Advanced ResearchProjects Agency Information Processing Techniques Office.System Development CorporatJon2500 Colorado AvenueSantaMonica , Callfornia 90406?
Some Computational Aids for Obtaining a Formal Semantic Description of EnglishbyJohn Olney, Carter Revard, and Panl ZiffSystem Development Corporation2500 Colorado AvenueSanta Monica, California 90406~-e goal of a formal semantic description of a language may becharacterized approximately as follows: to specify a set of lexical entriesand a system of  rules sufficient to provide s~propriate readings for bothindividual sentences and multi-sentence connected discourses in the isngusge~given appropriate structural descriptions of the sentences and discourses.
(It cannot be required that only s~propriate readings be ~rivable from thedescription 2 since sems~tic dissmbiguation often requires extralinguisticinformation.
However, one would expect that the appropriateness of thereadings derived will be correlated with their provision for inferencessemantically warranted by the text segments in question. )
As a contributiontow~ developing a formal semantic description of English (henceforthabbreviated as FSDE), ~ have transcribed two English dictionaries intomachine-usable form and are developing programs for processing the informationcontained therein.
The dictionaries are Webster's Seventh New Colle~iateDictionary (W7) and The New Merrism-Webster Pocket Dictionary (MPD), bothpublished by G. & C. Ferri~n Co. Apart from pictorial illustrations andtables, the transcript of W7 is complete, even to the extent of preservingvirtually all typographic distinctions made in the original.We make the simplifying assumption that the word and phrase sensesto be accounted for by the lexical entries and rules of an FSDE include ?
allthe ~se~?
described for entries in W7.
Our routines for processing the W7and MPD transcripts are designed to 81d in the discovery of:-I-(a) rules for obtaining certain of the senses described for W7entries from other senses described for the ssme entries orfrom senses described for other W7 entries from which theflrst were derived morphologically; and(b) semantic components land rules for combining them to yieldspecifications of senses that cannot conveniently be obtainedby the rules referred to in (a) above.A first ~pproximation to the set of lexical entries of an F~E couldbe specified when the rules and semantic components referred to in (a) and(b) have been discovered; their discovery wil l  of course require rosiny, ms~man-years of effort and also close collaboration with researchers in Englishsyntax.
The basic contribution of our dictionary processing routines to thisenterprise will be to permit semiautomatic generation of lexical fields forthe main entries in ~7.
One type of lexical field which we plan to generatewould display all words and phrases that are ~ entries and have been derivedwith the a~dltion of a given affix or have been derived from a given base word ~by any morphological process.
Appended to the field would be a printout listingthe senses given in W7 for the words and phrases in the field.
We have alreadyconstructed such derivational fields manually for a considerable number ofaffixes.
By providing syntactic feature characterizations of the ussgesof the entries in.
each field, we have often been able to discern which element(if any)of  the sense shift(s) accompanying the addition of the affix correspondsto a shift in syntactic function.
In general, we anticipate that the derivationalfields will prove quite useful as a computational aid for discovering the rulesreferred to in (a) above.-2-We also plan to generate semiautomatically a type of lexical fieldclosely resembling what has traditionally been called a semantic field, viz.,to construct for a given sense described at some entry in ~V a labeled networkin which the nodes are other senses described in ~ that are closely relatedsemantically to the given sense, and the labels indicate the type of relation-ship, e.g., synonymy, antor4vmy, etc.A major objective of our current research is to determine, for the typesof uses of the fields that we now foresee, exactly which relationshipsbetween word senses should be considered constitutive of semantic fields,and to what extent these relationships are signaled by machine-recognizablecharacteristics of W7 sense descriptions.
Our results to date indicate that:(1) the semantic field output for a given word sense in the form of suchnetwork should be based on occurrences of the word in that sense , and occurrencesof the non~unction words used to describe that sense, in other sense descriptionsprovided in WT; and (2) a variety of other clues involving the syntax ofdefining phrases, stylistic regularities observed in ~,  derivational morphology,the etymological information provided in WT, etc., shc~tld be taken into accountbefore the field is output.As part of our stylistic study of W7, we are working out conceptualanalyses of the meanings of nonfunction words and phrases that are used veryfrequently in ~ definitions, starting with those chiefly used in definingderived senses.
We will use these analyses to develop precise terminologyfor describing semantic relationships.Probably the most frequent and serious errc~s in our mechanical tracingof fields will result from establishing links (in the network) between wordsenses whose descriptions in W7 contain a pair of word occurrences that are-3-spelled the ss~e, are functioning as the ssme part of speech, but are usedin radically different senses.
Clues based on stylistic regularities inW7 should help in disambiguating words occurring in sense descriptions, butthe availability of MPDin  machine-usable form should help still more.
AlthoughMPD describes only one-sixth as many senses as WT~ nonetheless, for almost all~r~ occurrences in ~7 sense descriptions it defines the senses appropriatefor those occurrences.
M~reover, each MPD sense description is usually sucha straightforward abbreviation of one or more W7 sense descriptions that ourroutines will generally be able to determine ~hich W7 sense description(s)it abbreviates.
Words occurring in ~ sense descriptions can then be dis-smbigu~ted semantically to the extent of provisionally eliminating sensesdescribed for them in W7 which are not abbreviated in MPD.
No doubt thetracing of semsmtic fields by our routines will still have to be monitoredclosely by the user, at least initially.E~ward Bendix has already shown in his recent dissertation how apls~sible apprax_imation to specifying semantic components of each of a groupof words closely related semantically can be obtained by applying a series ofsemantic tests to all pairs in the group.
Accordingly, we anticipate thatour semiautomatically generated semantic fields will be used mainly to aidin discovering the semantic components and rules referred to in (b) above--more particularly for discovering components of words which~ unlike kinshipand color terms, do not belong to domains of the English vocab~ary that areobviously well-structured.As a further contribution toward discovering the elements of (b), weare attempting to arrive at a gross approximation to a set of semanticprimitives for English by roughly the following procedure: Where A is-4-the set of words occurring in W7 sense descriptionsp find B~ ~ set of wordsoccurring in the sense descriptions of the members of A, and print oust allpairs like 'infantile paralysis' a~l 'polion~elitis', each of which occurs(ss a crossreference) in the sense description of the other.
Wherever possibleeliminate one member of every such pair from B, then find C, the set of wordsoccurring in the sense descriptions of the remainder of B, and iterate theprooess until the set most recently found is not significantly smaller thanthe set found immediately before it.
The members of the smallest set foundwill then be scanned to see whether any further eliminations can be made.Preliminary results obtained by this procedure will be presented, togetherwith the results of our stylistic analysis of W7 and our study of derivationalprocesses.
Applications of our routines for processing the W7 and MPD transcriptsto lexicography, and to tasks in computational linguistics not directly concernedwith semantics, will be discussed briefly.-5-
