AUTOLING : AN AUTOMATED LINGUISTIC FIELDWORKERby  Sheldon KLEIN+COmputer Sciences DepartmentUniversity of WisconsinMADISON-WISCONSIN 53706U.
S. A.Sheldon Klein, Barbara G. Davis, William Fabens, Robert G. Herriot, Bill J.Katke, Michael A. Kuppin and Alicia E. Towster.ABSTRACTA system intended to act as a linguistic fieldworker via teletype'interaction with a linguistically unsophisticated informant has been designedand ls being progra,~med in extende~GOL for the Burroughs5500 and8500computers.The system consists of the three major analytic components ; a programfor performing morphological analyses and deriving a segmentation algorithm forsentences in any language ; a syntactic learning program that formulates contextfree and context sensitive phrase structure rules (monolingual learning componentto be added later) ; and a machine translation program that learns to translatein both directions between the query language (English) and the language of thellve informant via bi-lingual transformations.The informant may be viewed as a fourth component, and is assumedto be able to read and write English in standard graphemics, and to be able toread and writeh~on-English language in a phonemic notat ion.-I-The analytic methods used by the AUTOLIN@ are heuristic rather thaalgorithmic, and hence do not guarantee complete success.
~he various componentsmake use of protocols derived~from the experience of live fieldworkers .
Therepresentations of these strategies are relatively separeted from the analyticmechanisms of the program and, accordingly, may be deleted, altered or incre-mented at the discretion of the system designers~As a partial illustration of the system's operation, assume thatthe analystic process is at an intermediate stage, i.e.
some morphological,syntactic and translation rules have been posited.
Under the control of a moni-tor program, the system would test a nexly formulated syntactic rule by :i- Generating (via usage of the new rule) a form implied by thegrammar butnever  elicited from the live informant.2- Translating the Hypothetical form into the query language(English).3- Asking the informant via a teletype query to translate theEn~glish output of step 2.If the informant's reply is equivalent to the form derived fromstep 2, the newly posited rule is maintened in the tenative grammar (althoughsubject to later check).
If the informant's reply deviates from the output ofstep 2, the new rule is treated as suspect and subjected to further verificationprocedures.
If thedeviating reply contains new morphological material, themonitor program instructs the morphological analytic component to update itsanalysis.
The machine translation learning component would also recheck andupdate its rules.The program as a whole continues its interaction with the informantindefini~.ly, using the just mentioned strategies as well as others.
At anygiven time the system designers may interrupt the field work process and ask themachine to list its corpus and current rules.-2-
