AN EXPERIMERTAL SYSTEM FORA~OMATIC RECOGNITION OF PERSONAL TITLESA~D E~O~AL ~A~S ~N ~PAPER TEXTSCasimir BorkowskiThomas J. Watson IBM Research CenterYorktown Heights, N.Y.Smry .Natural language seems to contain various special-purposesublanguages (e.g., personal titles, personal names) -- each withits own structure which relative to the total structure of languageis quite simple.An ability to generate and to recognize automaticallywords and word strings belonging to various special-purpose sub-languages may prove to he very useful since they play an importantrole in indexing ~ in various systems for extracting and dis-tributing information.This paper (i) describes some of the main problems in-volved in automatic recognition of personal titles and names innewspaper texts, (2) outlines some rules of an algorithm designedto perform this task, (3) presents statistics concerning the algo-rithm's accuracy and exhaustiveness obtained in manual applicationof the algorithm to texts, (4) discusses and interprets some of theresults, and (5) suggests some applications for computer programscapable of recognizing personal titles and names.Motivation for  the Exl~eriment.One of the major questions of the day is the extent towhich a computer can be instructed to identify various parts oftexts  written in plain, ordinary language.
In trying to answerthis question, we set ourselves the preliminary l imited objectiveof developing an automatic procedure for identifying personaltitles and personal names in English-language texts.iExperimental Design.Our procedure in setting up an automatic method for iden-tifyin~ personal names and titles was approximately as follows:(i) We investigated permissible patterns of personal titles au~of E~l ish,  French, Russian, German, Spanish, Chinese, Arabic, andother personal names whose occurrence in texts we could anticipate.
(2) We obtained a 60,O00-word sample of newspaper texts and de-termined: Ibl patterns of occurrence of personal names and titlesin texts, patterns of personal names and titles occurring intexts, and (C) problems involved in distinguishing personal namesand titles from each other and from other parts of texts.
(3) Based on (1):sagdl (2) above, we set up an automatic proceduredesigned to identify personal names and titles in newspaper texts.This procedure was embodied in flowcharts and a dictionary of about8,000 ent r ies .
(4) We tested our procedure manually on a lO0,000-word sampleof new newspaper texts, and we emended the rules and expanded thedictionary on the basis of the information provided by the tests.
(5) We then stabilized the improved procedure and (a) tested itout manually on a new 40,000-word sample of newspaper texts and(b) collected statistics concerning its accuracy and exhaustiveness.
(Our reasons for applying the algorithm manually were as follows:(a) our identification system was embodied in dictionary entriesand flow charts which were sufficiently detailed to Permit accurateexecution of recognition procedures, and (b) we thought that itwould not pay to code and debug over a period of months what wouldprobably turn out to be a "one-shot" program)(6) We then investigated what types of errors had occurred andproposed various amendments to the automatic recognition procedure.Some Problems of Automatic Identification of Personal Titles and Names.Automatic identification of titles and names in texts isof course not without its difficulties.
First of all, many personalnames are orthographically identical with other types of words inthe language.
This is the case since among the main sources ofsurnames are: (i) titles (e.g., "King"), (2) names of occupations(e.g., "Baker"), (3) topographic terms (e.g., "Hill"), (4) Personalattributes (e.g., "Coward"), (5) place names (e.g., "London"),(6) names of animals (e.g., "Fox"), (7) names of%~eeS ~ (e.g.,"Pine" ), etc.There is considerable ambiguity between personal namesand place names due to the fact that not only are the names of)p laces  a f requent source of  personal  names but a lso  because manylocalities were named after people, as for example, El izabet~ NewJersey andDallas, Texas.
And to make matters worse, hotels~ busi-ness firms, universities, etc.
can be named after people~a~d areoften referred to by an abbreviated name which is that of a person(e.g., "He is staying at the Hilton", "He graduated from Stanford""Ford was hit by a strike last "~ UT~m -~ ~st ''~ .
week  of them cl lmbedthe ~ e~e )As for personal names like "HelenaRubinstein" and "Max Factor",they designate persons as well as business firms, while "PhilipMorris" is the name of a person, of a corporation, and of a brandof cigarettes.Yet another difficulty arises in case of names of persons(e.g., "Madison") when they perform a naming function with regardto something, say an avenue, (e.g., "Madison Avenue").
Presumbly,it would be worthwhile to distinguish automatically references topersons from references to things named after persons.Further difficulties in automatic recognition result fromthe co-occurrence in texts of names belonging to different namestrings (e.g., "John Byron" as in "Estelle gave John Byron's DonJuan", "Mary Jane" as in "For Mary Jane had nothing but sympat-~" I~xander  Montgomery" as in "According to Alexander Montgomerywas slow in exploiting successes".
).Other difficulties in :recOgnizing personal names resultfrom the fact that personal titles are not unfailing aids in iden-tifying and disambiguating personal names since titles themselvescan be homographic with other types of words.
For instance,"General" is a military rank in "General Mobutu", but not in "GeneralMotors".Further difficulties result from the fact that some titlesare homographic with given names.
How is an automaton to tell that"Dean" is a.title in "Dean Wiesner" but a name in "Dean Rusk", that"King" is a title in "King James" but a name in "James King", that'~arl" is a title in "the fourth Earl Russell" but a name in "theChief Justice Earl Warren"?Some Reco~nltion Rules.Our recognition algorithm was intended a~ a frame ofreference in an investigation of the trade-off between the effi-ciency and the complexity of a series of algorithms.To be able to investigate the trade-off between the ef-ficiency and the complexity of a series of algorithms, we avoidedtaking as our point of departure a strong theory about the struc-ture of language, memant~cs, pragmatics, etc., and about the amountof syntactic recognition required for successfUl identification intexts of personal titles and names.
Instead, we sought to discover?\what ~ssumptions and what information about natura l  l~a@e~ahdtext~ may be pertinent .to.
;.the resolution of the limited problems inrecognition which we set for ourselves.Stronger assumptions and muze elaborate techniques of ana-lysis can be built into subsequent algorithms if required and asrequired.
For instance, since parsing may be helpful in identifyingsequences of names each of which is followed by its title (e.g.,"The President nominated John Gordon Ambassador to Guatemala, Wil-liam T. M. Beale Jr.
Ambassador to Jamaica...") future recognitionalgorithms may parse sentences containing: (1) double-object verbs(e.g., "nominate") and (2) strings consisting of personal names fol-lowed by titles.At a later time, parsing and/or other types of analysesmay be extended to sentences, paragraphs, and articles containingother kinds of words and phrases.
However, since parsing and othertypes Of analyses may be expensive, it would seem advisable toapply them only when they can reasonably be expected to provideeconomic solutions to valid problems.Our rules describe the arrangement in the sentence ofthe words, phrases, and punctuation marks which are pertinent torecognition of names and titles.
Generally, the description startswith the first, that is, the leftmost pertinent element and termi Inates with the last, or rightmost pertinent element.
Recognitionrules were given a "left-to-right" format because rules expressedin this way are easy to implement on an electronic computer.For greater ease of understanding, the rules are'expressedhere in narrative form.
For the sake of brevity, only some recog-nition rules are listed here.
A more complete description of iden-tification rules is available elsewhere.
(1) -Our rules for recognizing names of persons take advantageof the style rules of The New York Times.
We would conjecture thatwhereas details of name recognition rules may vary from newspaperto newspaper, their general pattern will remain fairly stable andindependent of editorial conventions.The rule for identifying personal titles which was selec-ted as a reasonable first approximation states that a word orphrase in text is a personal title either:(i) if it matches a word or string of words on a list of titlesor(2) if it matches a word or a string of words which is on allst of words and phrases which commonly combine with titles (e.g.,"Acting", "Assistamt", '"~ice") and is followed by a personal title(e.g., "Acting Mayor,, "Acting Assistant Vice President")or(3) if it is a personal title followed by a wor~ or a strim~ ofwords which is on a list of words which commonly combine with titles(e.g.
t "-elect ~, " at Large", "pro tempore") as in "Senator-elect","Ambassador at Large", "President pro tempore".or(4) if it is a title designated by a llst, like say "Commis-sioner", followed by the word "of" and any capitalized word (e.g.,"Co~nissioner of Parks").or(5) if it is a word beginning with a capital letter and followedby a title designated by a list (e.g., "Co~zmlssioner" as in "PoliceCo~,issioner" ).
~'A preliminary (and a highly tentative) rule specifieshow titles concatanate.
This rule permits distinguishing somestrings such as "Prime Minister, Sir" as in "Prime Minister, SirAlec Douglas-Home", "Rev.
Dr." as in "Rev.
Dr. Martin Luther King","Mr. Chairman"3"Mr.
Counsel", "Mr. Chairman, Ladies, and Gentlemen:",and so forth from titles followed by names.The present set of rules for identifying titles which arehomographic (that is, ortographically identical) with other wordsis relatively simple.
It divides ambiguous titles into four classes;words of Class I (e.g., "King", "Pope", "Prince") are assumed tobe titles (e.g., "King John", "Pope John") unless:(1) preceded by either personal titles designated by a 1/stsuch as "Mr.", "Dr.", "M.
Sgt.
", "General", etc., or by given namesand initials in various combinations (e.g., "Mr. King", "John King","Dr. Pope", "John Pope", "John M.
King'!, "J. M. King")or(2) followed by such postnomial elements as "Sr." (e.g., "King, Sr."),"& Bros." (e.g., "King & Bros.), "and Company" (e.g., "King andCompany"), and so forth.Occasionally, words of Class I are followed by capitalizedwords or phrases which designate various institutions, establish-ments, locations, and so forth which are frequently named afterpersons (e.g.
3 "Drug Store", "College", "Avenue", "Theorem").Although, the llst of such words and phrases is open-ended, itsmost frequently occurring members can be discovered and listedquite easily.
Furthermore, there is some evidence that many ormost such phrases can be identified by means of recogniti6n rules.Words which are members of Class I are assumed to be names whenthey are followed by words such as "College" o~ phrases such as"Drug Store" .Words which are members of Class II (e.g., "Kaiser","Chamberlain", '~arl") are assumed to be personal names., Commonlyoccurring exceptionsto this rule (e.g., "Kaiser Wilhelm", "LordChamberlain", '~arl of" (if followed by a word beginning with acapital letter)) are listed.Words which are members of Classes III and IV (e.g.,"General", "Principal", "Justice") are assumed to be titles.
Com-monly occurring exceptions to this rule are listed ("GeneralAssembly", "Major Medical Plan", "Principal Investigator", "JusticeDepartment" ).As our rules become more sophisticated, the need for listsof exceptions will diminish.
However, it is likely that listingexceptions will often be an attractive alternative to rendering arule more complicated.Personal titles in the plural are recognized by means of a simplerule.
It states that a string of characters is a personal title inthe plural i f :(i) it is recognizable as a personaltitleand if either(2) its final word is followed by the letter "s" (e.g., "MajorGenerals" )or else(3) if one of the words of which it is composed and which a llstdesignates as the stem for the plural is followed by the letter "s"(e.g., "Collector" as in "District Collector of Internal Revenue").A procedure similar to the one for identifying titlesin the plural is used to recognize personal titles in the possessivecase (e.g., singular: "Major General's", plural: "Major Generals'").Our rules assume that the capitalized word or string ofwords and initials which frequently follows a title is the name ofa person (e.g., "President Nkrumah", '~r.
Paul-Henri Spaak", "Gover-nor Nelson Rockefeller").If a title is followed by a word beginning with a lower-case letter or by certain punctuation marks, this indicates thatthe title is not followed by a name.
However, occasionally personaltitles arm followed by names beginning with lower-case letters(e.g.
I "President de Gaulle").On occasion, titles are followed by capitalized wordswhich are not names.
This happens in particular when a title isfollowed by a capital~zed word or  phrase which designates aninstitution, an establisb~ment', a site, and so forth, nsu~ed after apersonal title (e.g., "Ambassador Bar", "Archduke Trio", "EmperorConcerto"~ "President Hotel", "Queens County", "Viceroy LumberCompany" ) ?Although -- as mentioned earlier -- the list of such wordsand phrases is open-ended, its most frequently occurring membershave been listed and are consequently identifiable.
Co~nly  oc-curring exceptions to this rule are also listed and are thereforeidentifiable.
In addition, we have some simple preliminary rulesfor identifying phrases whose designata often bear as names wordsor phrases which are personal titles (e.g., "President Radio Re-pair Shop", "Viceroy Lumber Company").
However, since the iden-tification of phrases which designate such namesakes has been givenlittle attention, these rules are very tentative.Words which are generally names of weekdays when theyoccur after personal titles (e.g., "They saw the President Monday")are of course listable and therefore identifiable.Occasionally, titles are followed by capitalized wordswhich are not names and for the recognition of which the rulesmake no provisions (e.g., "British" in "The Prime Minister, Britishsources said, wi l l  arrive on Monday."
and "New York" in "Mr. Steven-son prefers Washington and Mr. Rusk, the Secretary of Stat% NewYork.").
Constructions such as these are, however, quite rare.Occasionally, prepositional and other phrases intrudebetween a title and a name (e.g., "the French Ambassador to the_United States, Herve Alphand", "the Foreign Minister of France,Maurice Couve de Murville").
Prepositional phrases of this sortand other adjuncts are identified by various rules of the "bruteforce" type whose statements are constructed as follows: If apersonal title (e.g., "Foreign Minister") is followed by a phraseconsisting of the preposition "of" and of the name of a country,such phrase is part of the title.In general 3 in a string of words consisting of titlesand names t titles precede names (e.g., "the Secretary of State,Dean Rusk I the Foreign Minister of the Federal Republic, GerhardSchrSder, the Foreign Minister of France, Maurice Couve de Mur-ville").
Sequences of names each of which is followed by its title(e.g., "Dean Rusk, the Secretary of State, Gerhard SchrSder, theForeign Minister of the Federal Republic, ...") are rare.
(Ordinarily, iz.
a construction of this type, each title is set offfrom the name which follows it by a semi-colon.
)In spite of counter-examples such as the ones above, onecan reasonably assume that if the capitalized word or string ofwords and initials which frequently follows a personal title isNOT an identifiable word like "Hotel", "Garage", "Street" I "Monday",etc., or a phrase li~e "Barber Shop", '~rug Store", "Meat PackingCompany", etc., then it is a personal name.While counter-examples to this rule and to similar rulesare easy to invent, the inventors of counter-examples usually missthe point that rules such as these are statistical observations a~that in actual application to texts they hold up rather well.
Asstate~ earlier, among the goals of an investigation of this typeis to obtain experimental evideuce as to how well the rules hol~up an~ what amendments are required to simplify them, ~to renderthem more accurate, and to expand their scope.If a personal title (e.g., "President") is conjoined tothe titles "Mrs." or "Miss" (as in "the President and Mrs. Johnson"),the capitalized word or string of words which follows the conjoinedtitles is generally the name of a person.In general, the name of a person acts distributively withregard to the preceding titles, that is to say, a phrase like "thePresident and Mrs. Johnson" decomposes into "President Johnsonand Mrs. Johnson".Occasionally, a personal name does not act distributivelywith regard to conjoined titles which precede it (as in "an agree-ment between the Cardinal and Mrs. Johnson", "a meet i~  between thePresident and Mrs. Luce"); however, the present set of rules makesno provisions for recognizing such cases.Generally, in newspaper ~rticles, capitalized words andinitials which (a) frequently follow a personal title in the plural(e.g., "Senators") and (b) which ar~ not followed by other titles(e.g., "Senators, Congressmen, and Generals") are strings of person-al names (e.g., "Senators Javits and Kennedy", "Senators JacobJavits, Robert Kennedy and George D. Aiken", "Presidents Johnsonand Lopez Mateos").Of course, "Ambassadors Bar and Grill" is not a title inthe plural followed by two names.
However, commonly occurringphrases such as "Bar and Grill" are listable and therefore identi-fiable.As a rule, the first name string -- which is often se-parated from the title by a comma -- terminates before the firstconjunction "and" or before the next comma; the second name stringbegins after "and" or after the comma; etc.If two name strings which follow a title in the plural(e.g., "Senators Jacob Javits, Robert Kennedy, ...") are separatedby a comma, then -- generally -- the end of the second name stringis marked by a comma or by the conjunction "and".If two name strings which follow a title in the pluralare separated by "and", then -- generally -- the end of the secondname string is marked either by punctuation marks such as sentenceperiod I a colon, a semi-colon, etc., or by a word beginning with alower-case letter (e.g., "arrived" in "Presidents Johnson and LopezMateos arrived today.").
However, if the word beginning with alower-case letter is a name conjunction (e.g., "de", "yon"), thensuch word does not mark the end of the second name (e.g., "Presi-1 8dents Lyndon Johnson and Charles de Gaulle").Occasionally, the string of words which follows a titlein the plural consists of both names and prepositional phrases(e.g., "Senators Javlts of New York and Fulbright of Arkansas","Senators from New York, Javits and Kennedy").
Our rules permitidentifying some prepositional and other phrases which may intrudebetween titles in the plural and the names which follow them.Generally, the title in the plural acts distributivelywith regard to the names which follow it, that is to say, a phraselike "Senators Javits and Kennedy" decomposes into "Senator Javltsand Senator Kennedy".Generally, the end of a name string which may follow apersonal title in the singular is marked by punctuation (comma,sentence period, dash, semi-colon, colon, exclamation point, apos-trophe t three dots, left or right parenthesis, etc.)
or by a wordbeginning with a lower-case letter.However, a lower-case letter does not mark the end of aname string if the word which begins with it is either:(1) a name conjunction (e.g., "de" as in "Attorney GeneralNicolas deB.
Katzenbach")or(2) the last element of a hyphenated Chinese given name (e.g-,"lai" in "Premier Chou En-lai")or(3) the one-letter Spanish word "y" (e.g., "President JoseBustamante y Rivero")(4) if it is one of the Arabic words "ibn", "el", "al", "er",and so forth (as in "Abdul-Assiz ibn-Saud", "Abd-el Eader", "Abd-al-Kadir", "Abd-er-Rahman" ).The end of a name string is often marked by its last ele-~ment (e.g., "Jr." as in "Rev.
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.", "2nd" asin "Douglas MacArthur 2nd", the Roman numerals "I", "If", "III", etc.,as in "King Idris I").
Cases in which Roman numerals are in themiddle of a name are rare and can be treated as listable exceptions(e.g., "King Gustaf VI Adolf").NOTE: The present rule makes no provisions for distinguishingRoman numerals "I", '~", and "X" from the first person pronoun "I"and from the letters "V" and "X" since contexts in which these ambi-guities may cause error in name recognition seem rare (e.g.
I "MalcolmX", "Pope Leo X", "Idrls I", "May I leave?
").Ordinarily, a left parenthesis or a left bracket are amongthe punctuations which mark the end of a name string.
This, however~is not the case when a person'~s title and given name are followedby his nickname in quotation marks, as for example in "Gen. Howell("Howling Mad") Smith", "Adm. William ("Bull") Halsey", etc.Similarly, whereas ordinarily a left bracket marks theend of a name string, occasionally, when quoting someone, newspaperssupply in brackets the part of name which the original state~ntomitted (e.g., "M~ agreement with Senator ~qichard B.\] Russell...");sequences such @s these do not mark the end of a name.The rule for identifying nicknames which was selected asa reasonable first approximation states that "strings of words inparentheses and quotes which occur immediately after the titleand/or given names and before a surname are nicknames"..A parallel rule serves to identify names in brackatswhich act as amplifications of original statements.The preceding section has stated in considerable althoughby no means full detail some rules for identifying titles and names.We hope that this form of presentation indicates the vast amountof detail involved in rules for automatic recognition without,however, overburdening the reader with a multitude of minute pointsof information.Results of the Experiment.Since our identification rules were embodied in dictio-nary entries and flow charts which were sufficiently detailed topermit an accurate manual execution of identification procedures,it was decided that our identification system would be tested outby hand on a sample of The New York Times texts.Identification procedures were applied manually to some40,000 words of texts.
Altogether eighty-eight articles fromeleven issues were selected and processed.
Only newsartlcles wereincluded in the sample.
All materials found in the special sectionssuch as (1) entertainment, (2) food-fashions-family-furnishings,(3) social events, (4) necrology, etc.
were omitted.
Materials inthe sample consisted of only texts of newsartic?es; picture cap-tions, advertisements, italicized lists of various sorts, chartsand diagrams, etc.
were excluded from the data.Our 40,577-word sample contained 806 occurrences of ~ sof persons.
Of the 806 occurrences of names of persons, 46 orabout 6% of the total were missed.
In addition, 47 words and wordstrings were mistakenly identified as personal names or personaltitles.Figure of merit F for the results of this identificationlOsystem was computed by means of the following formula:F=C 2(C+M)  x Twhere C is the number of correct identifications, M is the numberofmistaken identifications, and T is thenumber of names of personsin the sample.
(2)For T = 806, C =746, and M = 47F = 7462 = .87(746+47)  x 806Ar~l~sis of Ma~or Errors.Twenty-six misses (out of a total of forty-six) andthirty mistaken identifications (out of a total of forty-seven) oc-curred in attempted identifications of words, word stems, and wordstrings which perform a naming function vis-a-vis some namesake(e.g., "Grumman Aircraft Engineering Corporation").
This source ofmisses and false identifications would be eliminated if in thefuture the automatic identification system was not required to de-cide whether words, word stems, and word strings (e.g., "Grumman")performing a naming function vis-a-vis some identifiable namesake(e.g., "Aircraft Engineering Corporation") are names of persons.We also need more effective rules for computing namesakephrases (e.g., "Aircraft Company") and personal titles (e.g., "Fire-man Apprentice") from their respective elements (e.g.
I "Aircraft","Company", "Fireman", "Apprentice").In addition, we need to prevent or c~eliminate the errorscaused by the assumption that all capitalized words occurring afterambiguous words such as "General", "Justice", "Major", "Principal",etc.
are names of persons.We also require more effective rules to distinguish stringsof t i t les (e.g., "President, Secretary of State") from titles fol-lowed by names.
In addition, we need more effective rules for dis-tributing a title among all ~ s  of persons which follow it in thetext (e.g., "Senators Vance Hartke and Birch Bayh of Indiana andEugene J. McCarthy and Walter F. Mondale of Minnesota").In ad@ition, we ~y requi~e rules which ~m0uld uheCk onHthe d idones : rather than supersede them.
The new set of rules would be ap-plied to words and phrases which were identified as names of personsby the old set of rules.
The new rules could indicate the degree3_Iof confidence with which the al6orithm identified a wor~ or a stringof wor~s as name of a person s or as a personal title followed bythe name of a person, etc.The advantage of this procedure consists in not havingto revamp the algorithm in order to accomodate new rules.
New ruleswould simply be tacked on to the old ones.
New rules might che~kwhether the elements of a string of letters, punctuation marks,spaces, numbers, etc.
which the old rules had identified as acan be (a) words of the English language and (b) names of persons.Whether a string of characters is a personal name couldbe decided by probability tables constructed along these lines:Is this string ofletters an Englishword?YesYesNoNoCan this string ofletters be a personalname?~(esUnknownYesUnknownIs this string ofletters the nameof a person?Probably yesIt ' s unlikelyYesit ' s very likelyThe new rules should be relatively easy to implement.The question "Is this string of letters an English word?"
could beanswered by means of (a) a lookup in a dictionary based on somedesk dictionary -- say Webster's Collegiate, and (b) si,~le rulesfor identifying affixes of the plural, the past tense, the gerund,the negation, etc.
The question "Can this string of letters be apersonal name?"
could be answered by means of (a) a lookup in adictionary based On a large telephone directory -- say the Man-hattan Telephone D i rec ts ,and  (b) simple rules for identifyingthe plural (e.g., "es" and "s" as in "the Joneses" and "the Wein-bergs") and other affixes.Improving the automatic identification system may requireseveral subsidiary investigations.
For instance, we may be welladvised to determine the relationship -- if any -- between, on theone hand, the length, the date, the place of origin, the subjectmatter, the authorship, and the type of newspaper articles proces-sed through the system~nd on the other, the effectiveness of thealgorithm.12Discussion and InteI~retation.Automatic classification of words and phrases of the typedescribed here can be regarded as a particularly simple case ofmachine translation.
However, the goal of this type of machinetranslation is not translation into another natural language butTEXT REDUCTION: certain words and word strings are identified as"pertinent" (e.g., personal titles, personal names~ place names 2street addresses, numbers and measures, dates and other time phrases,company names, trade names, chemical formulas, etc., etc.
)andothers as "not pertinent".
Pertinent words and phrases are re-tained and labeled, and all others are suppressed.Even this simple goal requires rules which are rathercomplex.
However, because many word strings which the algorithmssuch as this one attempt to recognize have simple structure ("phrasestructure"), they can be generated and possibly also recognizedwith a reasonable degree of accuracy by simple automata ("push-down storage") or by a combination of linguistic and statisticaltechniques.More generally, it may be useful to view natural languageas a macro-language containing certain special-purpose micro-langua-ges (or "sublanguages") -- each with its own structure which re-lative to the total structure of language is quite simple.
It maybe of some practical and theoretical interest (a) to investigatethe structures and the inter-relations of such sublanguages and (b)to construct algorithms for identifying in texts words and wordstrings belonging to such sublanguages.An ability to produce and identify automatically wordsand word strings belonging to various special-purpose categories(i.e., sublanguages, each with its own set of rules) may prove tobe very useful in information retrieval because they play an im-portant role in various systems for extracting and distributinginformation.It would appear that along with researching and developingmethods for high-quality fully automatic classification of wordsin texts, it may be advisable to set up efficient procedures for(a) manual classification and tagging of words and word strings intexts, and (b) subsequent automatic extraction of data from textswhich were recognized either manually or automatically.
One pro-cedure for manual classification of words in texts would requirecomputer-legible texts which can be projected on TV-type tubes(hereafter, "display screens") and either lightpens or cursors forwriting on display screens.
It may look approximately as follows:A newspaper article would be copied from some type ofmachine-readable tape into a suitable computer.
The computer would?L~n project the article on a display screen.
A clerk would thenscan the display screen and locate various types of words andphrases in the article (say, names of persons, names of organiza-tions, dates, addressesj and so forth).13Upon identifying a type of word.or of word string, theclerk would flash a lightpen or a cursor at the display screen andbracket that word or word string in suitable identifying symbols.Next, identifying symbols would be transferred from display screento tape by means of a computer program.
The recognized tape couldthen be processed in various ways by miscellaneous information ex-tracting programs.It seems likely that manual assignment of word strings intexts to special-purpose sublanguages (akin to thesaurus classes)would provide a valuable interim service while methods for high-quality automatic classification are researched and developed.If and when automatic procedures for recognizing in texts dotes,personal titles, various technical and professional terms, meta-linguistic terms, names, etc., etc.
become competitive with manualones, the data processing community will be already in possessionof operational computer programs capable of extracting data fromrecognized texts.Some Possible Applications.In the absence of figures on the cost of identifying per-sonal titles and names by computer, the subject of the applicationsof computer programs capable of recognizing names of persons innewspaper texts must remain in the domain of speculations.We would conjecture that if the speed of computation washigh and its price could be kept low, and if the figure of meritcould be raised to .98 or higher, then a computer program for iden-tifying names of persons in texts would be worth incorporating intoexisting information retrieval systems of very large newspapersand periodicals.It is still unknown whether a program with a figure ofmerit lo~er than .98 would be useful in information retrieval.
Wewould surmise that it might be adequate for some purposes providedthat it is sufficiently fast and cheap.Several uses suggest themselves immediately for computerprograms capable of identifying cheaply, rapidly, accurately, andexhaustively the names and titles of persons in computer-legiblenewspaper texts.
They seem to fall into five broad and overlappingcategories: (1) automatic indexing of newspaper articles, (2) de-termining how the nsm~s of persons cluster with one another andwith other words, (3) establishing frequency counts of names ofpersons, (4) tracing associations between names of persons, and(5) answering questions of the '~gho?"
type within an automatic orsemi-automatic system capable of providing answers to "Who?"
"Whom?""whose?"
"When?"
and "where?"
types of questions addressed to anewspaper file.Systems for (a) either automatic or manual classification14of words and word strings in texts, and (b) subsequent automaticextraction of data from texts which were recognized either auto-matically or manually may be useful to many groups, among them:(l~ipolltical scientists, sociologists, lexicographers, onomasti-clans, and literary scholars concerned with the occurrence ofnames, titles, and other words in texts, (2) editors, documentallsts,librairians, and others concerned with automation of editing and ofliterature searching, (3) opinion survey and market research statls-ticians concerned with the occurrence of names in texts, celebrityratings, measurement of opinion trends, etc.Footnotes.
(i) Borkowski, C.G., A System for Automatic Reco6nition of PersonalNames in Newspaper Texts, Report RC-1563, Watson IBM ResearchCenter, Yorktown Heights, N.Y., 1966, 62 pp.
(2) Meetham, A.R., Preliminary Studies for Machine Generated Vo-cabularies, Language and Speech, 6 (Part 1): 22-36 (January-March 1963).15
