SEGMENTING NATURAL LANGUAGE BY ARTICULATORY FEATURESDavid ShillanCambridge Language Research Unit,ENGLAND.I.
For many purposes it is necessary to segment textinto units convenient for handling.
The sentence hasbeen generally accepted as the natural unit, sincethere was no obvious alternative other than the word-wh ich  by itself tells us too little - or the para-graph - which is a vague and shifting unit, ~unlessredefined.
But the sentence is not satisfactoryeither: it ks very variable in length; studies ofspeech show that in its conventional form it is notalways recognizably present I ; it may depend semant-ically upon its context up to at least paragraphlength; and in any case what constitutes a sentenceis not consistently defined (Fries 2 indicates morethan 200 definitions).2.
There is another way of segmenting text, whichdoes not suffer from these limitations, being basedupon the rhythmical features of articulated speech.This use of the term "articulated" results from avlew of language as basically speech, that is asskilled bodily movement.
We have found it possibleto bridge the gap between spoken language and writtenlanguage by using features which both the writer andthe reader of language tend to adopt from speech.3.
Studies of ?poken language, particularly in re-latiQn to foreign language teaching, show agreementon at least the terminal boundary of the "tone group"which Crystal & Quirk3 call "the most striking proso-dic unit in English speech", and on which they havefound experimentally a high rate of agreement byinformants.
Many different teaching books* exemplifythis agreed feature, despite the lack of satisfactoryinstrumental evidence on continuous speech (into whichresearch is now being planned).4.
Less agreement is found on the configuration ofthe whole unit which terminates in the "nucleus".Some authors refer to "tone groups" or "tone units",some to "sense groups", some use both terms: thisoverlapping category of tone and sense suggested afield for further study, which has been proceedingat C.L.R.U.
for some time.
Syntax is not usuallybrought into the treatment of this subject, sincethe approach is phonological; but among the authors* Work supported by Canadian National Research Council..I.re fer red  to  4, MacOarthy do~nd icate  that  syntact i cc r i te r ia  determine  the  s$~ure  o f  h i s  " in tonat iongroups" .
Our s tud ies  suppor t  the  work o f  those  whosuggest that what is commonly called "stress" has asemantic functionS, and what can be an~ysed in termsof intonation is the syntactic feature , - a kind ofaudible syntactic braketting.5.
I t  i s  common pract i ce  in  the  teach ing  o f  Eng l i shas  a fo re ign  language (see  Ba i rd7)  to  use  tone  groupso f  two s t resses  (head and nuc leus)  as  examples ,  butth i s  conf igurat ion  i s  not  usua l ly  fo rmal i zed .
In  myown use  o f  such dr i l l  mater ia l  fo r  the  fo re ign  learner ,I have fo r  many years  adopted  th i s  un i t ,  marked i tw i th  a mus ica l  p~rase-mark ,  and ca l led  i t ,  s ince  my1954 publication ?, a "phrasing".
MY drill use of thisun i t  g ives  a minimal  context  o f  not  less  than  one sen-tence  - a sentence  be ing  se~nentab le  in to  one or  morephrasim~s, the phrasing being thus aud i t  between theword and the sentence but not necessarily coterminouswith the clause or grammatical phrase.
(The musicalanalogy shows phrasing as a category distinct from thenote, the bar, and the section.)6.
Ten years after publication of these drills, mywork was called upon by Margaret Masterman9 in re-lation to her own semantic approach, for which the twostress-points of the phrasing were seen to correspondto two information points.
In the ~eantime I had beenled by teaching experience to  consid6r the ~ifficultyof foreign lezrners with adequate vocabulary andadequate syntax but no adequate speech-experience ofEnglish.
They were unable to read a piece of currentEnglish (e.g.
a "Times" leading article) with under-standing, wherean the native English reader, even ifmomentarily puzzled by perhaps a hastily-worded sen-tence, would immediately feed back into his readingof it (i.e.
"in his mind's ear") the natural speechform (i.e.
the phrasing) with which the writer hadwritten it.7.
From this the conception of "stress-point" becamedifferentiated from precise syllabic location of stress(which is itself a complex of amplitude, frequency, andduration) and was defined as the word or words centred,i n  s t ress -and- tone  prominence,  on the  nuc lear  tone ,~nd the  word or  words cent red  (in th  e same sense  o f,p rominence" )  on that  head t_one which predominatesabove any o ther  head or  heads  which might fo l low thepreced in~ nuc leus ..2.r Th is  method o f  dea l ing  w i th  tone  groups whichapparent ly  have more than  one head proves  to  beoperationally satisfactory.
It gives us a consis-tent phrasing of two beats, the second of which con-sists, in certain cases, of a "silent stress~ (phenomenon vouched for by many phoneticianslO), a Italso helps to meet~the difficulty of differently timedlan@nla~es, referred to in para.
13 below.8.
It follows from the treatment of stress-points in-dicated in para.
7 above, that spread stress will occurin regular compounds, such as "semi+readiness", and italso occurs very frequently in cases of a noun with itsqualifier, whether true adjective or noun acting asadjective, e.g.
"political+requirements", or "staff+planning", and in g~neral where we find intimatelyassociated words on which the stress falls with vir-tually equal emphasis.9.
The silent beat may or may not be a perceptiblepause, but tends to occur in certain typical locations,e.g.
where some expression of significant semanticcontent is about to follow.
It would also be possiblein many cases to imagine the phrasing re-written usingrelevant syllables instead of the silent beat, e.g.
"in a review of progress" instead of"in a review () ".In marking phrasings on text two symbols are used inaddition to the + sign for spread stress and the ()sign for silent beat.
They are the well-known tonetiom~rker ~ (originally representing a high falling tone)used for the nuclear stress, and the stress-mark' usedfor the head stress.
These may also be referred to asprimary and secondary stress-points, the nucleus beingprimary because in general it indicates the ~ ofthe utteraace and the head being secondary because ingeneral i t  indicates the cqmment.
Thus reading downall the nuclear stress-points of a text printed as aseries of phrasings one below the other, we have anindex of the topic of the whole text.10.
A piece of text reading"Politically Canada is divided into ten provinces andtwo territories" can be phrased-up either as.3.
"~o l i t i ca l l~  ( )" ~ Canada i s  "d iv ide~" in to  ' ten  "Prov ince6"and 'two ~er r l to r ie ' s  TM or  as~ol i t i ca l l y  ( )'Canada i s  "d iv idedin to  ' ten  ~province8and ' two ~ter r i to r ies .The "quat ra in"  form in to  which th i s  fa l l s  proves  to  bevery  f requent ,  par t i cu la r ly  a t  the  bU inn ing  o f  apassage .
Th is  passage cont inues  in  two more quat ra ins :'Each+prov ince i s  ~sovere ignin  i t s  ' own "sphereand 'admin is ters  i t s  ~own'natura l  ~resource8,and upon ' such  " resourcesas ' re la ted  to  ~topography,' pos i t ion  and "c l i l a tei8  'based  the  "economy?of?the?prov ince.A s t ra ight fo rward  text  o f  th i s  k ind  o f fe rs  i f  not  a word.fo r -word ,  a t  leas t  something l i ke  a phras ing- fo r -phras ing  poss ib i l i ty  in  t rans la t ion .
But the  t rans -la t ion  cor respondence ,  fo r  French fo r  example,  i s  o f tennot  d i rec t  but expanded (e .g .
2 or  more French fo r  1Eng l i sh ) ,  or  t ransposed  in  o rder .
Apart from theseocns iderat ions ,  there  a re  many cases  in  which thephras ing  s t ruc ture  reso lves  syntact i c  or semant ic  un-cer ta in ty .
Here i s  a case where the  lack  o f  such ameans o f  segmentat ion  led  to  a ser ious  mls t rans la t ion :I t  'may be ?assumedthat  an ' in ternat iona l  ~forceon a ' s tandby  ~bas isw i l l  ' take+shape as a ?
developmentout o f  'p rac t i ce  which has a l ready  "begun.The pub l i shed  t rans la t ion  has  tu rned  the  las t  two l inesin to"prendra  une fo r~e assez  s ingu l i~re ,  ce qu 'e l le  a d6Jhconeno6 h faire".1 1.
Passages of text An various styles and of variouslengths have been analyse~ by hand, and show a con-sistent tendency  fo r  th i s~hythm to  be found.
Theremay be phys io log ica l  reasons  fo r  th i s .
Neuro log ica ls tud ieseshow pers i s tence  of  tone and rhythm in  caseswhere normal  a r t i cu la t ion  i s  impaired1 .
~ood reasonsfo r  th i s  rhythm to  be b inary  inc lude  the  fac t  that  the*For neurological literature I am indebted to Dr.Violet MacDermot..4 .rhythm o f  the  motk~Ms hear t -beat  i s  p resent  even tothe  unborn ch i ld ,  and the  in /out  rhythm o f  resp i ra t ionand the left/right rhythm of walking are basic to h~anlife in general.
Studies in articulatory phoneticssupport the belief that some form of kinaestheticactivity is involved in silent reading, as well as inlistening to live speech, which is why we can legiti-mately refer to "the rhythm of the prose" in spite ofthe lack, up to the present, of acoustic instrumentaldocumentat ion  of th i s .12.
Though in tonat ion  supp l ies  the  contour  on which thephrasing is founded, the rhyth~of stress is the moreessent ia l  fac tor .
As T ibb i t t s  '~ sayss  "The cor rectbas ic  s t ress ing  i s  mandator~ wh i le  the  in tonat ion  i svar iab le  w i th in  as  yet  undef ined  l im i ts" .
Th is  i s  thereason  wh~ She phras ing  hypothes is  i s  unaf fec ted  byd i f fe rences  o~ d ia lec t  o r  accent .
The quest ion  o fi sochromic i ty  in  Eng l i sh  prose  has  a l i te ra ture  s t r~tch-in~ back to  Joshua  Stee le  in  1775, th rough Covent ry  Pat -more in  1856, and on to  i t s  thorough exper imenta l  .
.
( though not  ins t rumenta l )  examinat ion  by  AndrT~Classei n  1939 and d iscuss ion  by Abercrombie in  1951 o. Therei s  ev idence  fo r  a t  leas t  a s t rong  tendency  towards  anormal  regu lar  per iod ic i ty  o f  s t ress -po in ts .
Ourobservat ions  suggest  that  a speaker  tends  to  se lec tand order  h i s  words so as  to  d i s t r ibute  them aboutthese  pu lsat ions  o f  s t ress  in  such a way that  po in tso f  emphasis  fa l l  natura l ly  upon them.13.
The question of whether the phrasing can be equallywell observed in languages other than English is notincluded in the present paper, except by the observa-tion that when parallel texts in English and ~rench areanalysed in this way, the French equivalent of theEnglish phrasing, as clearly delimited by the Frenchnuc lear  tone  (and notw i ths tand ing  the  d i f fe rence  bT~tween a sy l lab le - t imed and a s t ress - t~ed language )supp l ies  a form o f  " t rans la t ion  un i t  " ' l  w i th l~ measur -ab le  ra te  o f  cor respondence  w i th  the  Eng l i sh  .13.
Examination of given phrasings in a text of 377phrasings a followed by another of over 900 phrasings,led Dolby'9 to say: "Phrasing length, as measured bythe number of syllables, appears to be a reasonablybehaved statistic when viewed in isolation with routinestatistical tools".
(See Appendix I)14.
A method o f  observ ing  the  phono log ica l  conf igura -t ion  o f  phras ings  i s  to  tu rn  wr i t ten  text  in to  spokenprose  on magnet ic  tape ,  pass  th i s  th rough a su i tab lep i tch  detector  and in tens i ty  detector  (such as  that  o f.5 .the University of Grenoble or the University ofCopenhagen), and record the result on mlngographscrolls.
Research now being started at C.L.R.U.
iscomparing the output of these two sets of apparatuswith that of apparatus developed in England, with aview to finding the best selection of acoustic databy which to observe the terminal point of the phrasing(frequently a steep fall or rise in pitch), and the twostress-points as peaks of frequency-plus-amplitude-plus-duration.15.
An extension of the usefulness of this unit ofsegmentation can be seen in algorithmic production bycomputer of a form of phrasing, based on observationof the criteria used in making articulatory p~asings.This has beeh done at 0.L.R.U.
by J.E.
Dobson=Vin aform which while not in every single case identicalwith hand-marked phrasings nevertheless provides anew and operational segmentation of continuous text.As part of the work done under contract to the NationalResearch Council of Canada, this programme is now beingapplied to the phrasing of a text of 20,000 words fromthe 0~uada Year Book of 1962.16.
The normal rhythmical stress can also be providedalgorithmically.
This makes possible a computerizedordering of the phrasings of a text alphabeticallyaccording to four different valuations, i.e.
(i) the primary Snuclear) stress!
(ii) the secondary (=head) stress,(ill)pendants (= unstressed strings attached) toprimary stress;(iv) pendants (= unstressed strings attached) tosecondary stress.This gives a semantic concordance (called SE~O) fromwhich statistical and other information can be derived.The computer can process text in this way as it couldnot do using the sentence as a unit, and both moreeconomically and with more information than it couldby merely cutting the text into lines of the lengthof the computer print-out.17.
The patterning of stressed and unstressed words,i.e.
of stress-points and unstressed words can be ex-pressed as a calculus of ordered pairs, on whichresearch is proceeding..6.Pm m c sI.
C.C.
Fries: "The Structure of English"; HarcourtBrace, 1952, Longmans Green, 1957.R.
Quirk, A. Dmckworth, J. Svartvik, J.P.L.Rusiecki, A.V.T.
0olin: "Studies in the corres-pondence of prosodic to grammatical features  inEngl ish";  IXth In ternat iona l  Congress of L ingu is t i cs1962.2.
See I.3.
D. Crystal & R. Quirk: "Systems of prosodic andparalinguistic features in English"; Mouton, 1964,.
Armstrong & Ward: "Handbook of English intonation";Heffer, 1931.W.
Stannard Allen: "Living English Speech"; Long-mans Green, 1954.0'0onnor & Arnold: "Intonation of colloquialEnglish"; Longmans Green, 1961.Arnold & Gimson: "English Pronunciation Practice",Lonaon Univ.
Press, 1965.J.T.
Pring: "Colloquial English Pronunciation",Longmans Green, 1959.R.A.
Close: "Patterns of Spoken English"; Kenyusha(Tokyo), 1954.R.
Kingdon: "The Groundwork of English Intonation";Loh~mans Green, 1958.Lado & Fries: "English Pronunciation"; Ann Arbor,1954.L.A.
Hill: "Stress and Intonation step by step";Oxford, 1965.W.R.
lee:"An English intonation reader"; Macmillan,1963.P.
MacCarthy: "Endlish Pronunciation", Heffer,1944/50.D.
Shillan: "Spoken English", Longmans Green,1954/65.5.
e.g.R.
Gunter: in Journal of Linguistics 2,2 Oct. 1966.. M.A.K.
Halliday: "Some aspects of the thematicorganisation of the English clause"; RandMemorandum, Jam.
1967.. A. Baird: "Transformation and sequence in pro-nunciation", English Language Teaching XX, 2, J~n.1966.8.
See 4..7.9.
Margaret Masterman: "Commentary oK the Guberinahypothes is .
;  Methodos 57-58, XV, 196310. e .g .D .
Jones: "Outl ine of Engl ish Phonetics";Cambridge, 1932.D.
Abercrombie: "Studies in Phonetics andLingu/stics", Oxford, 1965.11. e .g .T .
AlaJouanine: "Verbal rea l i za t ion  iaaphasia";  Brain 79, part  I ,  March 1965.12.
R.H. Stetson:  "Motor Phonetics";  Amsterdam, 1951.13.
E.L. T ibb i t te :  in Engl ish Language Teaching XXI,1, Oct. 1966.14.
A. Olasse: "The Rhythm of E~glish Prose";Blackwell, 1939.15.
See 10.16.
K.L.
Pike: "The Intonation of Americ" English";Ann Arbor, 1946.17.
D. Shill--: in Meta (Montreal) XI, 3, Sept. 1966.D.
Shill--: in Eng l ieh~e Teaching XXI, 2,Jan.
1967.18.
J.Y.
Dolby: Reports to O.L.R.U.
1965-66.19.
See 18.20.
J .E.
Dobson: O.L.R.U.
work paper ML 185, andla ter  developments.
(see Appendix I I ) ..8 .APPENDIX IA: Histogram of phrasing frequencyversus phrasing length in words.280260~02202O0180140.,~ 1 20o 1003oooo 60og 2oo!0r -| !
l1 2 3 4mI w5 6 '7 8 9 10Phrasing length in words.9.APPENDIX IB: Histogram of phrasing frequencyversus phrasing length in syllables.mal \[O'l0m0Q0000g1 PO140130120110IO0908O7060504O302O1000--1imi i .
- ?
I !1 2 3 i 5 6 7 8 9 1'0 t 1'213 14151'6 1'718~hrasim~ len&~h in syllables.. tO  -APPENDIX II: 0omputer outpmt from phrasl~ program.\WHILE THEy ARE WELL KNOWN AND ESTABLISHED,,I THOU3HT IT WOUL?
BE APPROPiATE:To DRA'~ YOUR ATTE~TIO~TO CERTAIN OF THE DEPARTMENTAL PROBRAM~ESTHAT AXE ~ESS WELL KNE~WNIN RELATIOrJSHIP TC SERVICESFOR THE ABED,BuT wHiCH NEvERTH~ESSCAN CONTRIBUTE SIGNiFiCANTLYTO THEIR WELL BEI~6.ONE OF THESE I~THE NATIONAL WELFARE GRANT PROGRA~!~EWHICH ~AS ESTABLISHEDA9 LATE AS NINETEEN SIXTYTWOWITH CONSIDERABLE SUPFORT AND ENTHUSIASMFROM THE PROVINCIAL 60VERNMENTS,AND FROM THE NATICNAL AND LOCAL VO~UNCARY WELFAREAGENCIES.ONE MILLION DOLLARSI~ AVAILABLEUNDER THtS PROBRA~MEOURIN6 THE CURRENT FISCAL YEARAND THAT AfJOUNT I~ TO iNCPEASEA~ THE RATE O~ HALF A ~ILLION DOLLAR3A YEAR.11.
