?
?The Elimination of Grammatical Restrictions in a String Grammar of EnglishM.
Salkoff and N. SagerInstitute for Computer Research in the HumanitiesNew York University, New Yorki.
Sun~nary of String TheoryIn writing a grammar of a natural language, one is faced with the problemof express ing rammatica For example, in the sentence formN V N (N, noun: V, verb), the subject N and the verb V must agree innumber: The boy eats the meat; ~ The boys eats the meat.
Or, in thesequence Q N 1 P N 2 (Q a number; P, preposition), e.g., five feet in length,N 1 and N 2 are of particular subclasses: ~ five feet in ?beauty.
One of thetheories of linguistic structure which is particularly relevant to this problemis linguistic string analysis?\[1\].
In this theory, the major syntacticstructures of English are stated as a set of elementary strings (a string isa sequence of word categories, e.g., N V____NN, N V P N, eta).
Each sentenceof the language consists of one elementary sentence (its center string) pluszero or more elementary adjunct strings which are adjoined either to the rightor left or in place of particular elements of other elementary strings in thesentence.
17.~The elementary strings can be grouped into classes according to how andwhere they can be inserted into other strings.
If Y = X 1 X 2 .
.
.
X n isan elementary string, X ranging over the category symbols, the followingclasses of strings are defined:-1-~X left adjuncts of X: adjoined to a string Y to the left of X in Y, orto the left of an ~X adjoined to Y in this manner.r X right adjuncts of X: adjoined to a string Y to the right of X in Y,or to the right of an r X adjoined to Y in this manner.nX replacement strings of X: adjoined to a string Y, replacing X in Y.Sy sentences adjuncts of the string Y, adjoined to the left of X 1 orafter X i in Y (l~ i ~ n), or to the right of an Sy adjoined to Yin this manner.in Y (i< i < n), or to Cy, i conjunctional strings of Y, conjoined after X i _ _the right of a Cy, i adjoined to Y in this manner.z center strings, not adjoined to any string.These string-class definitions, with various restrictions on the repetition~and order of members of the classes, constitute rules of combination on theelementary strings to form sentences.Roughly speaking, a center string is the skeleton of a sentence and theadjuncts are modifiers.
An example of a left adjunct of N is the adjectivegreen in the green blackboard.
A right adjunet of N is the clause whomwe met in the man whom we met.
A replacement formula of N is, for example,what he said in the sentence What he said was interesting.
The same sentencewith a noun instead of a noun replacement string might be The lecture wasinteresting.
Examples of sentence adjuncts are in general, at this time,since he left.
The c strings have coordinating conjunctions at their head.An example is but left in He was here but left.
Examples of center stringsare He understood and also We wondered whether he understood.The grammatical dependencies are expressed by restrictions on the stringsas to the word subcategories which can occur together in a string or in stringsrelated by the rules of combination.
Thus, in the center string N 1 V N2, the-2-grammatical dependency mentioned above is formulated by the restriction: iffN1 is plural, theh V does not carry the singular morpheme -_ss.
The stringgrammar with restrictions gives a compact representation of the linguisticdata of a language, and provides a framework within which it is relativelysimple to incorporate more linguistic refinement, i.e., more detailedrestrictions.
JOne may ask whether it is possible to write such a string grammar with-out any restrictions at all, i.e., to express the grammatical dependencies(restrictions) in the syntactic structures themselves.
In the resultingrestrictionless grammar, any elements which are related by a grammaticaldependency w i l Lbee lements  of the same elementary string.
No grammaticalrelations, other than those given by the simple rule of string combination,obtain between two strings of a sentence.
The result of this paper is todemonstrate that such a restrictionless grammar can be written \[4\].In order to obtain a restrictionless form of a string grammar of English,we take as a point of departure the grammar used by the computer program forstring decomposition of sentences, developed at the University of Pennsylvania\[2,3\].
This gran~nar is somewhat more detailed than the sketch of an Englishstring grammar in Ill. A summary of the form of the computer grammar ispresented below in section 2.
In section 3 we show how the restrictions can beeliminated from the gran~nar.An example of a typical output obtained for a short sentence from a textof a medical abstract is shown in Figs.
1 and 2.
The decomposition of thesentence into a sequence of nested strings is indicated in the output by thenumbering of the strings.
As indicated in line 1., the sentence consists ofthe two assertion centers in lines 2.and ~ ~ conjoined by and.
The line B ?-3-contains a sentence adjunct th~_~) on the assertion center as a whole .
Theassertion center 2 .
is of the form N V A : Spikes would be effective .
The nounspikes has a left adjunct (such enhanced) in line 5 - ?
as indicated by theappearance of 5 .
to the left of spikes .
The object effective has a leftadjunct ~9_~)  in line 6 .
and a right adjunct in line 7 ?
In the same wsy,each of the elements of the adjunct strings may have its own left and rightadjuncts.
Line IO .
contains an assertion center in which the subject and themodal verb (woul____dd) have been zeroed.
This zeroing is indicated in theoutput by printing the zeroe~ element in parentheses.The difference between the two analyses in Figs.
i an~ 2 lies in thedecomposition of the sequence in initiating synaptlc action.
In the firstanalysis (Fig.
I), this sequence is taken as a P_~N right adjunct oneffective, where initiating synaptlc is a left adjunct (onaction) of theform of a repeated adjective (parallel to escaping toxic in the sequencein eseap.ing toxic gases) .
In the second analysis (~ig.
2), this samesequence is taken as a ~ right adjunct of effective, where initiating/is the Ving, and synaptic action is the Object of initiating.-4-2.
The Computer String Grammar.In representing the string grammar in the computer, a generalized grammarstring is used 5 which is defined as(i) Y = Y1 / Y2 / " " " / Ynwhere(2) Yi = Yil Yi2 " " " Yimand(3) Y-.
= Y' IS where Y' is a grammar string like Y.This system of nested gram~nar strings terminates when one of the grammarstrings is equal to an atomic string (one of the word-category symbols).
TheY.
are called the options of Y, and each option Y. consists of the elements Y... l l 13Not every option of a grammar string Y will be well-formed each time thesentence analysis program finds an instance of Y in the sentence being analyzed.Associated with each option Yi is a series of zero or more tests, calledrestrictions.
'If RiP is the set of tests associated with Yi then the grammarstring Y can be written:(4) Y = RIY I / R2Y 2 / .
.
.
/ RnY nA restriction is a test (which will be descrfbed below) so written that if itdoes not give a positive result its attached option may not be chosen.All of the restrictions in the grammar fall into two types:TypeA:  The restrictions of type A enable one to avoid defining manysimilar related sets of grammar strings.
The options of the grammar string Yhave been chosen so that Y represents a group of strings which have related-5-linguistic properties.
This allows the grammar to be written verycompactly, and each grammar string can be formulated as best suitsthe linguistic data.
However, when a grammar string Y appears as aY' .
of some other string Y' ij , some of the options of Y may lead tonon-wellformed sequences.
In order to retain the group of options ofY and yet not allow non-wellformed sequences wherever options of Ywhich would have that effect are used, we attach a restriction of type Ato th0s~ options of Y.For example, let Y beY = Y1 / Ra Y2 / " " " (~)where(6)andYI = which Z V (e.g., which he chose)Y2 = what E V (e.g., what he chose)Then Y can appear in the subject Z of the linguistic center string CI:(7) Cl = z v nThis yields Which he chose was important; What he chose was impDrtant.As it is defined here, Y can also be used to represent the wh-clausesin the right adjuncts of the noun:(8 )  Y '  = rN  = .
.
.
/ Y / .
.but in r N only the which option of Y gives wellformed sequences:3 the book which he chosethe book what he chose-6-Hence a restriction R a is attached to the what option of Y (eq.
5) whoseeffect is to prevent that option from being used in r N.Type B: With some given set of rather broadly defined major categories (noun,verb, adjective, etc.)
it is always possible to express more detailed linguisticrelations by defining sub-categories of the major categories.
These relationsthen appear as constraints on how the sub-categories may appear together inthe grammar strings Y.If some element Yij of Yi is an atomic string (hence a word-categorysymbol) representing some major category, say C, then R b may exclude the sub-category Cj as value of Yij if some other element Yik of Yi has the value C k.Y ikmay also be a grammar string, in which case Rbmay exclude a particularoption of Yik when Yij has value C..The restrictions R b may be classified into three kinds:(a) Between elements of some string Y. where the Y.. correspond to elements 1 i~of a linguistic string.For example,A noun in the sub-category singular cannot appear with a verb inthe sub-category plural.
~ The man agree.Only a certain sub-category of adjective can appear in the sentenceadjunct P__AA : in general, in particular, ~ in ha~py.
(b) Between a Yij and a Yik where Yij corresponds to an element of a linguisticstring and Yik corresponds to a set of adjuncts of that element.
For example,In rN, the string to V 2 cannot adjoin a noun of sub-categoryN 2(proper names): the man to do the job ~ John to do the ~ob.-7-Only a certain adjective sub-category (e.g., re~/.e~, available)can appear in r N without any left or right adjunct of its own:the people present ; ~ the people happy.
(c) Between Yij and Yik ' where one corresponds to an element of alinguistic string and the other corresponds to an adjunct set which canrepeat itself, i.e., which allows 2 or more adjuncts on the same ling-uistic element.
These restrictions enable one to express the orderingamong adjuncts in some adjunct sets.
For example,Q (quantifier) and A (adjective) are both in the set?N ' the left adjuncts of the noun.
However, _Q canprecede A but A cannot precede _Q when both are adjunctsof the same N in a sentence: 3 Q A N e.g., five greenbooks , but ~ A Q N e.g., green five books.The string grammar defined by eqs.
i-3, together with the atomicstrings (word-category symbols) have the form of a BNF definition.The system with eq.
4, however, departs from a BNF definition in twoimportant respects :(a) it contains restrictions (tests) on the options of a definition;(b) the atomic strings (word-categories) of the grammar havesub-classifications.With the elimination of the restrictions, the computer grammar will againhave the form of a BNF definition.-8-3.
Elimination of the RestrictionsThe restrictionless string grammar is obtained from the grammardescribed above by the methods of (A) and (B) below.
Initially (inthis paper), conjunctional strings have not been included in therestrictionless grammar.
We estimate that the addition of conjunctions/strings will increase the size of the restrictionless grammar by afactor of about 5.
(A) The linguistic strings represented in the computer graz~,arare reformulated in accordance with the following requirement.
Givenany utterance of a language containing A .
.
.
B .
.
.
, where agrammatical dependency obtains between A and B , the elementary stringsof a restrictionless string grammar are defined so that A and B appeartogether in the same linguistic string, and any iterable sequencebetween A and B is an adjunct of that string.
Iterable sequences of thetype seemed to begin to in It seemed to be~in to surprise him that weworked seriously , or is said to be known to in It is said to be knownto surprise him that we worked seriuusly are analyzed as adjuncts.If we place such sequences among the left adjuncts of the verb, ?v 'then the sentences above can be put in the form(9) It~_?
v surprise him that we worked seriously-9-~v = seemed to begin to ; is said to be known to ; etc.However, when the adjunct ~v takes on the value zero (as can all adjuncts,by definition), then (9) above becomes the non-grammatical sequence Itsurprise him that we worked seriously.
This happens because the firstverb of ~v (seemed or is__) carries the tense morpheme, and the latterdisappears when ~ = O.
We separate the tense morpheme from the verb, andVplace it in the center string as one of the required elements.
(i0) C1 = Z t ~ V g;Vt = o I -?
I -ed I will, ca.__~n, ...This formulation of the assertion center string C1 (lO), in whichthe tense morpheme is an independent element and iterable sequences are takenas adjuncts, is necessary in ord@r to preserve, for example, the dependencebetween the particle it and the succeeding sequence surprises him that weworked seriously: ~ The book surprises him that we worked seriously.
In thegrammar~which includes restrictions, this formulation is not necessary becausethis dependence can be checked by a restriction.
(B) Turning to the computer form of the grammar, all the restrictions ofthe grammar are eliminated either by defining new grammar strings (for theelimination of the restrictions Ra) ' or by replacing the general word-categories by the particular subclasses of those categories which arerequired by the restriction (to eliminate Rb).
The application of thisprocedure increases the number of strings in the grammar, of course.The restrictions R a can be eliminated in the following manner.
Supposethe option Yi of Y has a restriction R a on it which prevents it from beingchosen in Y' (Y is a Y'ij of Y').
Then define a new grammar string Y 'wh ich-lO-contains all the options of Y but Y. :1(15) !~ = Y1 / Y2 / " " " / Yi-i / Yi+l / ?
?
/Then the new gran~nar string Y* replaces Y in Y'.
Thus, in the example ofR a on p. 5, the string Y* = which Z t fv V / .... (in the modified treatmentof tense and iterable sequences) would replace Y in r N.The restrictions R b are eliminated in a different way, according tothe types described on p.
6.
(a) New strings must be written in which only the wellformed sequencesof subcategories appear.
In the example of subject-verb agreement, theoriginal Yi (Yi = C1) must be replaced by two options:C l= N t V ~ ?
Ns t Vs ~ / N t V - P 2Pwhere N s and Np are singular and plural nouns, V s and Vp singular and pluralverbs.
(b) If an element of a particular subcategory, say Ai, can take only asubset of the adjuncts rA, then a new adjunct s~ring rAi is defined.
Itcontains those options~_ of r A which can appear only with A i plus all theoptions of r A which are common to all the sub-categ0ries of A.
When thishas been done f0r ?
all A i having some particular behavior withrespect  to rA,all the remaining sub-categories of A will have a common adjunct string r : aA r A ~ A l rA1  / A3rA3 / .
.
.
/ A2r a / A4r a / .
.As many new sets rAi must be defined as there were special sub-categories ofA.
A similar argument holds for ~A and other adjunct sets which depend on A.-ll-(c) A new element corresponding to the/adjunct set must be defined inwhich the adjuncts appear correctly ordered with respect to each other, andeach one must be able to take on the value zero.This procedure for eliminating restrictions is also the algorithm forintroducing further grammatical refinements into the restrictionless grammar.Such a general procedure can be formulated because of an essential propertyof a string grammar: In terms of linguistic (elementary) strings, allrestrictions are either a) ?between elements of a string, or b) between anelement of the string and its adjunct, or c) between related adjuncts of thesame string.
Further, there is no problem with discontinuous elements in astring grammar: all elements which depend in some way on each other grammatic-ally appear in the same string or in strings which are contiguous by adjunction.The cost of the elimination of all restrictions in this way is about anorder of magnitude increase in the number of strings of the grammar.
Insteadof about 200 strings of the computer grammar, the grammar presented here hasabout 2000 strings.
It is interesting that the increase in the size of thegrammar is not greater than roughly one order of magnitude.
This suggests thatthere may be practical applications for such a grammar, e.g.
in a programdesigned to carry out all analyses of a sentence in real time.
Also, sincethe restrictionless grammar is equivalent to a B.N.F.
grammar of English, itmay prove useful in adding English-language features to programming languageswhich are written in B.N.F.-12-SENTENCE NEUH- IB  ?
SUCE ENHANCED SPIKES WOULD BE MORE EFFECTIVEIN IN IT IAT ING SYNAPTIC ACTION AND THUS BE RESPONSIBLEFOR THE OBSERVED POST-TETANIC POTENTIATION ?PARSE OlI .
SENTENCE = INTRODUCER CENTER AND END MARKZ,  AND 3 ,  4 ,  ?2 ,  C I  ASSERTION ?
$ SUBJECT $ VERB $ OBJECT5.
SPIKES gOULD BE 6 .
EFFECTIVE T ,RV $3,  ACVERB = ADVERBTHUS~,  CONJUNCTION ?
CENIER10 ,5 .
LN = ARTICLE QUANTIF IER ADJECTIVE TYPE-NS" NOUNSUCH ENHANCED6 .
AEVERB = ADVERBMORE7 .
P NlO .
C I  ASSERTIONI I .
LN= LP PREPOSITION NIN I t ,  ACTION= $ SUBJECT $ VERBI 5 .
SPIKES | (WOULD | BE$ OBJECT RV $RESPONSIBLE t2 ,ARTICLE QUANTIF IER ADJECTIVEIN IT IAT ING SYNAPTICTYPE-MS NOUN12 .
P N = LP PREPOS|TICN NFOR 13 ,  POTENTIATION13 .
LN = ARTICLE GUANTIF IER ADJECTIVE TYPE-NS NOUNTHE OBSERVED POST-TETANIC-13-+F i~e 2SENIENCE NEUH-.IB ?
SUCH ENHANCED SPIKES kOULD BE MORE EFFECTIVEIN IN I | iAT ING SYNAPTIC ACTION AND THUS UE RESPONSIBLEFOR THE OBSERVED POST-TETANIC POTENTIATION ?PARSE 021?
SENTENCE = |NTROOUCER CENTER AND END MARKZ .
AND 3?
6?
?2 ,  C I  ASSERTION ?
= ?
S~BJECT.
5 .
SPIKES3?
ACVERB S ADVERBIHUS?
VERB ?
OBJECTkOULD BE 6?
EFFECTIVE T ,RV ?6 .~NJUNCTIGN = CENIER10 .5.
LN ?
ARTICLE QUANTIF IER ADJECTIVE TYPE-NS NOUNSUCH ENHANCED6 ,  lCVERB = ADVERBMORETo P NS V INGIOF|  0 = PREPOSITION SNIN IN I I IAT ING 11o ACTION10 .
CI ASSERTION ?
?
SUBJECT ?
VERB ?
OBJECT RV ?
( 5 .
SPIKES I (WOULD)  BE RESPONSIBLE 12 ,11.
LN = ARTICLE QUANTIF IER ADJECT|VE TYPE-NS NOUNSYNAPT|C?12.
P N = LP PREPOSITICN NFOR 13o POTENTIATION13 , ' LN  = ARTICLE QUANTIF IER ADJECTIVE TYPE-NS NOUNTHE OBSERVEO POST-TETANICNG MCRE PARSES- lh -REFERENCESi.
Harris, Z. S., String Analysis of Sentence Structure, Papers on FormalLinguistics, No.
l, Mouton and Co., The Hague, 1962.2.
Sager , N., Salkoff, M., Morris, J., and Raze, C., Report on the StringAnalysis Programs, Department of Linguistics, University of Pennsylvania,March 1966.3.
Sager, N., "Syntactic Analysis of Natural Language", Advances in Computers(Alt, F. and Rubinoff, M., eds.
), vol.
8, pp.
153-188.
Academic Press,New York, 1967.4.
This problem was suggested by Professor J. Schwartz of the Courantinstitute of Mathematical Sciences, New York University.5.
The option Yi here corresponds to the linguistic string Y of the previoussection.
The symbol / separates the options of a string definition.-15-
