SOME LINGUISTIC ARGUMENTS IN FAVOUR OF Mr BAR-HILLEL'S"NON UNIQUENESS" HYPOTHESISBy Prof. REVEINInstitut de Philologie Slave de l'Acad~mie des Scimnces30 a avenue TroubnikovskiMOSCOURESUMEI.
In his "Four Lectures" (1963) Mr Bar-Hillel advanced a hypothesisof "different grammars for the same language lying peacefully side by sidesomewhere in our brain".
In recent years the writer -quite independantly fromBar-Hillel (whose "lectures" were unknown to him)- came across many argumentsin favour of this "non-uniqueness" hypothesis.
Stylistic considerations involvedwere discussed in a paper read at the Semiotic Conference in Kazimlerz (Poland)in September 1966.
In the following some grammatical questions are brieflysketched (the whole being presented in the writers book "Methods of Modellingand Typology of Slavic Languages" - to appear in summer 1967);;2.
There are no linguistic or loglc obstacles for producing words -out of morphs or simple syntactic groups (phrases) - out of words or morphs by aFS (finite state) grammar.
Mr Vauquois and his colleagues have already demonstra-ted this fact for words in their brilliant study on the use of models in mechani~cal translation.3.
As for simple syntactic groups, one can get some insights in totheir structure by interpreting states on the diagramm of the FS grammar aslinguistic categories (following in this a proposal by Bar-Hillel and Shamirfrom a work of 1960).
For this the writer considers a restricted FS grammar(the diagramm of such grammar does not contain two arrows labelled by the samenon-empty word).
Under this restriction the distribution of non-elimlnableempty words provides for an adequate segmenting of the group.
It is-I-/worth mentioning that there is only on~ restricted FS graummr for a givenlanguage (if abstraction is made from arrows labelled with the empty word),4.
The described restriction must be abandoned, if homonymousconstructions are investigated.
Nevertheless it will be shown that even here the~distribution of the empty word labelling some arrows provides for an explanationof homonymity (e.f. there can be two different paths So they S I are $2~ S 4 flyingS 5 planes So " and So they S 1 are $3 flying S6~S 5 planes So, giving the sentencethey are flying planes.5.
It can be assumed that the units of the level of words and thatof syntactic groups (in some cases also of simple sentences) are generated not'only by a device equivalent to a phrase Structure grammar (e.f. a dependency gram-mar), but may be generated by a simplifier device (a restricted or non-restrlctedFS grammar), the only linguistically relevant difference being the fact thatthe former provides for a hierarchization of the parts (which can be semanticallyinterpreted for all endocentric construction as a property-attributing relation),and the latter does not.6.
Almost the same applies to the relation of phrase structuregrammars to transformational grammars, the latter providing for a still higherdegree of hlerarchization (and semantic depth).7.
Following Bar-Hillel we assume that the speaker (or the hearer)constantly swltches, over from one to another way of production according tothe needed (or possible) degree of hierarchization.
In one particular case -that of ?he seml-idlomatlc expressions- such a solution seems obvious (onecan store them in the vocabulary as whole or construct them from parts).
Butthe most of human speech seems to be seml-idiomatic in a broader sense.8.
The non-uniqueness of syntactic description can be compared withthe non-uniqueness of phonemic solutions as described first by Yuen Ren Chaoand shown in its full importance in ~ remarkable paper by Vjach.-2-9.
On contemplating the picture of Grammatic Activity as aconstant switching over from one device to another, one is Struck by theanalogy to the picture of many computing devices working in parallel, whichaccording to yon Neumann ("Computers and Brain") explanesthe m~racleof human intuition in genral./-3-
