SYNTACTIC AND SEMANTIC PROBLEMS IN AUTOMATIC SENTENCE GENERATION, ~ ~ O~#/Kenneth E. Harper ~/v{~/..~.-.~A program for automatic sentence generation (ASG) has been deve loped~cJ /~, .
rin the linguistic group at The RAND Corporation, as a device for study- / ~  /ing selected problems in syntax and distributional semantics.
Thegeneral purpose of the study is to test certain linguistic assumptionsby experimentation:" what is the result when a computer program "com-poses" sentences on the basis of these assumptions?
The assumptions,and their implementation in the computer program, are subject to mod-ification, as deficiencies are observed in the output sentences.
Thistrial-and-error procedure is presently at an early stage of develop-ment; the present paper is a brief, non-technical description of theprocedure, and a report on some of the initial problems encountered,together with tentative solutions.
The ultimate goal of the researchis the generation of "paragraphs" (meaningful strings of sentences)as a contribution towards automatic abstracting.i.
The Sentence Generation RoutineThe ASG program operates with Russian language materials, for thesimple reason that the kind of data on which the linguistic assump-tions are based is available only for Russian.
The data is derivedfrom the corpus of Russian physics text processed at The RAND Corpora-tion (References i, 2).
In effect, the program described here dealswith a sub-set of the Russian language found in these physics texts.The program may be said to consist of three parts: a glossary ofwords, a granlnar, and a program for synthesizing sentences.
(i) The glossary is merely a list of 550 Russian words on magnetictape; each entry consists of a "word number" (the word-identificationnumber in the RAND physics glossary), (Reference 3) and a representa-tive Russian form (not necessarily the canonical form).
The glossarycomes into operation only at the end of the sentence generation rou-tine.
Generally, the words in the glossary are used in a single sensein physics texts.
(ii) The~r~ar  employed is a simplified dependency grannnar forRussian.
Its essential feature is that it is word-specific: eachword in the glossary is provided a list of words with which it maycombine in a dependency or governor relationship.
The basic prin-ciple is that syntactic cooccurrence (e.g., the pairing of a givennoun with a given adjective) is allowed only if this pairing is at-tested in the previously processed physics text.
(An exception ismade in the pairing of members of Semantic Classes, as explained be-low.
)The following information, available for each word in the glossary,may be said to constitute the grammar:i )  Word number2) Part-of-speech code.
Six such codes are used: VT (transitiveverb), Vl (intransitive verb), N (noun), A (adjective), DV (ad-verb), and DS (sentence adverb).
A word may bear only one suchcode.3) Semantic Class code (SC).
Twenty such classes are recognized;all are distributionally formed.
(References 4, 5)4) Set of governing probabilities5) Set of dependent probabilities6) Coordinate probability- I -7) Li~t of word nmnbers of governors8) List of word numbers of dependents9) List of word numbers of coordinatesTable i illustrates the meanlngof governing probabilities.
Readingacross the top line in the table, we see that each VT has a probabil-ity of Pl "of governing some noun as subject and a probability of i ofgoverning some noun as object.
The VT has probabilities of P~ and Pqof governing an adverb and a sentence adverb respectively, an~ a pro:bability of 0 of governing anything else.
The table shows also thateach VI must govern a noun as subject, and governs a DV and DS withprobabilities PA and P. respectively; each noun governs another nounor an adjective-with p~obabilities P~ and P.; a DS has a probabilityof i of governing a noun; adjectives-and adverbs never govern.Table 2 shows the meaning of dependent probabilities; here, readingacross, the various probabilities of being governed by other parts-of-speech are shown for nouns, adjectives, adverbs, and sentence ad-verbs; verbs do not have governors.The sets of governing probabilities for a word are associated withindependent situations.
For example, a transitive verb governs anoun as subject, a noun as object, an adverb and a sentence adverbindependently.
Therefore, in sentence generation, the decision toselect a dependent type will be made without regard to any dependenttypes already selected for that governor.
This is not the case, how-ever, when selecting a governor for a particular word.
The possibil-ities here are dependent events.
An adverb, for example, must be gov-erned by either a transitive or intransitive verb.
Thus, the set ofprobabilities for each word will add to one.Probabilities for coordination are assigned for relatively few words.Since coordinate conjunctions are not represented as a word class, theassignment of a Russian form for "and" and "or" will be generated bythe program (rather than by the glossary) in the sentence output stage.As previously mentioned, each word is accompanied by a list of theword nombers that may function as its governors and dependents.
Gen-erally, these dependency pairs have been attested in physics text.However, a Semantic Class may also function as a word's governor ordependent; when this happens, the program is free to choose randomlyany member of the SC in building the dependency pair.
Many such pairswill not have been attested in text; the purpose here is to test theadequacy of the Semantic Classes in word combination.
A complete listof the SC's cannot be given here; examples are (a) nouns that namephysical properties ("height," "weight"), ~) verbs and nouns referr-ing to a quantitative change ("to increase," "change"), and (c) thenames of physical particles ("atom," "proton").
The classes, andtheir members, are purely experimental and are subject to modification.
(iii) The ~rogram for ASG (written in MAP for the IBM 7044) is intri-cately bound up with the grarmnar, but for purposes of discussion wemay consider it separately.
Essentially, the program has three func-tions.
First, it restructures the grammar, in order to access I tw l thminimal search time.
(The grau~ar and the program are maintained incore storage.)
Secondly, the program generates sentences; beginningat some arbitrary point, it proceeds, pair-wise, up and down the tree" 2 "O8VT 0Vl 0N 0A 0DV 0DS 0Possible DependentsN A DV DSS 00 Pl i 0 P2 P3S @0 1 0 0 P4 P500P6 P7am0 00 0 00 i 0Table iGoverning ProbabilitiesVTVT0Possible GovernorsVI N A DV0 0 0 0DS0Cle~VI 0 0 0 0 0 0S SN Pl P5 P8 0 0 P98 0P2 0A 0 0 i 0 0 0DVDSP3P4P6 0 0P7 0 0Table 2Dependent Probabilities" 3 -0000structure until a terminal point is reached.
In the process, the al-gorithm provides that decisions of two kinds will be made at each node:(~ shall a dependent (or governor) be chosen for the word at this node,and (ii) if so, which word shall be chosen to complete the dependencypair?
The grammar supplies the basic information necessary for makingdecisions; a pseudo-random number generator with uniform distributionis used in conjunction with the grammar when a choice exists.
Final-ly, the program prints out the generated sentences in a fixed format.In their preliminary form, the sentences are merely strings of wordnumbers, together with associated data; glossary lookup then providesthe transliterated Russian form associated with each word number.
Atpresent, the problem of morphology is bypassed: no attempt is madeto supply the correct inflection of words in the sentence.
The infor-mation necessary to carry out an inflection routine is available fornouns and adjectives (i.e., inflection for case and number); for verbs,person and number are specified, but tense is not.
In the sentencesdiscussed below, correct forms for nouns, verbs and adjectives havebeen supplied for reasons of clarity.An example will perhaps serve to clarify the operation of the ASG pro-gram.
In a greatly simplified way, the algorithm proceeds as fol-lows.
(i) A starting point is chosen for the sentence.
Possible startingpoints are transitive verb (VT), intransitive verb (VI), and noun(N).
By random selection, VI is chosen for this sentence.
(2) Randomly, a particular VI is chosen from the list of Vl's in theglossary.
Here, we assume that word number 56410 is chosen.
(3) The possible dependent types of a VI are considered.
(Accord-ing to the gran~nar, verbs do not have governors, so that only de-pendents need be considered.
)(3.1) The grammar specifies that a VI must have a subject (the prob-ability P is one for this pairing).
The list of dependents servingas subject for word number 56410 is consulted, and an individual wordis randomly chosen: word nomber 34550.
(3.2) A Vl may have an adverb (DV) as dependent.
For the verb inour sentence, the probability for this event is found to be .5.
Weassume that in this sentence the decision is made that a DV will beselected.
The list of dependent DV's for word number 56410 is con-suited, and an individual adverb is randomly selected: word number14090.
(3.3) A VI may have a sentence adverb (DS) as a dependent.
For ourparticular verb, the probability for this event is found to be .i.We assume that a decision in made not to select a DS dependent.
(4) Next, the dependents of the dependents of the verb are consider-ed, but only with respect to their possible dependents (i.e., work ingdown the dependency tree structure).
(4.1) The noun chosen as subject (word 34550, from 3.1 above) mayhave various dependents, with varying probabilities.
Each of theseis considered in turn.
For sake of brevity, we assume that only one-4 -is chosen in our ss~nple sentence: an adjective.
A particular ad-jective is randomly selected from the list of dependents for the noun:word number 63610.
(5) The adverb selected in 3.2 above has no dependents, accordingto the grammar, nor does the adjective selected in 4.1.
At this point,the downward search for dependents is terminated, and the sentence isconsidered complete.In form, the sentence is at this point a string of word numbers on atape: 56410, 34550, 14090, 63610.
Attached to each word n~nber isdata about its function in the sentence, its governor, the order inwhich it was selected, and, for nouns, an indication of grammaticalnumber.
Glossary lookup is then performed on this tape, and the trans-literated Russian forms are printed out: uvellcennoe otnosenlezametna ~ta.If fixed rules relating to word order and morphology are applied toto this string of forms, the sentence emerges as:Eto otnosenie zametno uveli~ivaetsja.This ratio increases noticeably.The foregoing is a drastically abbreviated description of the mainsteps in the ASG program.
Sentences are presently generated at therate of three per second; the addition of programming rules to ac-count for morphology and word order would increase this time by anestimated ten percent.
The program may, then, be considered as apractical, operational tool for research.~.
Discussion of Generated SentencesAt the present stage of development, the ASG program produces iso-lated sentences of varying degrees of complexity and ~fcorreetness.
"Since words in the glossary are limited in usage to one sense, andsince semantic controls are guaranteed at least over pairs of words,a large number of sentences are quite acceptable.
(The developmentof a context into which such sentences can be placed is, naturally,a far more difficult programming task.)
The following are examplesof ~freasonable" sentences.
(i) Fejnman vy~islil integraly, s cel'ju opredelenija massy.Feynman calculated the integrals in order to determine themass.
(2) Re~enie zada~ predlagaetsja v nastoja~ej stat'e.A solution of the problems is proposed in the present article.
(3) Ob~mkr is ta l lov  izbyto~nogo serebra bystro umen'~aetsja.The volume of the crystals of excess silver rapidly decreases.
(4) Vozmo~nost' sil'nogo vzaimodejstvija tela vne~nego " istocnikaprivlekaet interes.The possibility of the strong interaction of the body of theinternal source is interesting.Sentence (4) illustrates the approximate limit in number of levels-5 -(six) for "reasonable" sentences in the present system.
Additionallevels can easily be generated, but only through the process of an-nexing genitive noun modifiers (i.e., English "of" phrases).
Veryfew sentences have been generated with more than six levels, princi-pally because of the drastically reduced probabilities of noun com-plementatlon at lower levels in the tree.
Thus, most sentences areshort , The chief obstacle to increasing sentence length (and com-plexity) is, however, the absence in the grannnar of provisions forsubordinate and coordinate clauses.
Also inhibiting, from thispoint of view, i s the absence of participles, prepositional phrases(beyond those used as adverbs), and pronouns.
The price for addingany of these grammatical categories is increased complexity in theprogram.
In an experimental situation, brevity and stylistic monot-ony can be tolerated.Deficiencies in the generated sentences are of two main types: syn-tactic and semantic.
Problems in both areas will be illustrated,although the line of demarcation is so~aetimes difficult to draw.Syntactic problems are chiefly the result of inadequate complementa gtion of nouns by adjectives or other nouns.
It will be recalled thatthe gran~nar specifies for each noun the probability of its modifica-tion by an adjective or a genitive noun.
These probabilities are as-signed on the basis of the noun's behavior in text (Refernce 6).Since P is normally less than one for both kinds of modification, agiven noun may frequently appear in a generated sentence withoutmodification:(5) Stepanov ustanovil teorii zada~.Stepanov established theories of the problems.
(6)(7)(8)Formulytipa ispol'zuJutsja.Formulae of the t.zp_~ are used.Razrjad issledovan pri ras~ete.The charge was studied in calculating.. .
Proverka daet metod polucen13a atoma.Verification gives a method for obtaining the atom.In (5), the noun phrase, "theories of the problems," appears to beill-formed; the difficulty may not really be syntactic, since in anappropriate context the phrase may be nothing more than an instanceof ellipsis.
Nonetheless, specificity as to "what kind of problems"should be provided in the given sentence, or in preceding sentences.The tmanodified use of "type" in sentence (6) is more difficult tojustify on the basis of ellipsis; our tentative solution is to __re-quire either an adjective or noun modifier for words like "type,""kind," etc.
(A modification in the program is necessitated here,since at present the selection of adjective and noun dependents ismade independently.
)The nouns in (7) and (8) are strongly verbal, and appear to be de-ficient in complementation.
This is particularly true of "ras~ete"in (7), translated with the "-ing" form because of its verbal usagewith the sentence adverb, "pri."
It should be said that all sentenceadverbs in our grammar have the property of conferring a verbal func-tion upon noun dependents.
(This is, of course, a very limited use-6  -of sentence modifiers.)
In order to maintain consistency inthegrammar, it is clear that the program should be modified: the prob-ability that a given noun will govern a genitive noun should equalone when the noun is itself governed by ~ sentence adverb.In general, it is clear that a word's combining potential (i.e., itscomblnin E probabilities) may be affected by the syntactic environmentin which it is placed.
A generation program that does not take intoaccount this possibility will be woefully inadequate.
The problemis: which syntactic environments affect which words, and under whichconditions?
One use of the ASG program is to generate problems ofthis kind, and to test provisional solutions.A second kind of syntactic problem arises when the grammatical num-ber of nouns is inappropriate.
(At present, the selection of numberis made by the random number generator, operating on data in thegrammar about the relative frequency of singular and plural in phy-sics text.)
Thus, in sentence (7) above, the combination "pri ras-~etax" ("in calculations") could have easily been generated, sincethe noun, "ras~et," is frequently used in the plural.
The stronglyverbal nature of the noun in this environment, as noted above, makesthe use of the singular noun almost imperative.
(Deverbative nounsare almost never used in the plural when indicating a process.)
Theprogram should therefore be modified to require that a noun dependentof a sentence adverb be singular.Two other instances of incorrect~umber in nouns may be mentioned.Nouns of the general classification, "abstract collective," requirethat genitive noun dependents be plural (unless the latter noun israrely, or never, plural).
Since the grammar contains no such spec-ification, the~following ill-formed sentence was generated:(9) Cislo ~to~o ~ otsutstvuet.A number of this later is absent.Other nouns (deverbatives), and their corresponding transitive verbs,appear to require that the noun complement be plural.
(I0) Izu~enie stolknovenij atom__~aopublikovano v predydus~e 3 rabote.A study of the collisions of an atom was published in a pre-ceding paper.The solution to the problem is to modify the grammar so that "col-lison," will require the (subjective) genitive noun dependent inthe plural.
(A variation of this principle is '~ultiple comple-mentation": "the collision of an atom with (and) another atom.
"Grammatical rules to account for this phenomenon are beyond thescope of the present grammar.
)We conclude that there are no major syntactic problems in the sen-tences so far generated, chiefly because the grammar is relativelyprimitive.Semantic problems are more difficult to isolate.
Again, it is some-times possible that the absence of appropriate context is the chiefcause ofodd-soundinE sentences.A trivial kind of error is caused by the inappropriate repetition" 7 -of a word:(ii) Analogi~naja formula i formula zaplsalis'.An analogous formula and a formula were written.It is easy to forbid the repetition of a word i~a  sentence; sucha restriction, however, would betoo  severe (cf., for example, "Weused formula i in deriving formula 2.").
In general, it appearsthat recurring words tend to be used in different clauses of thesentence.
Until the program is capable of producing sentences ofmore than one clause, the best strategy is probably to forbid wordrepetition.In some sentences, the choice of adjective modifier appears logl-cally inconsistent, or incompatible.
(12) Molekuly detal'no izuceny, s ce l ' ju ra~_~ i~nerenija.The molecules were studied in detail, for the purpose of adifferent measuring.The issue here is not the lack of a complement for '~easurlng," butthe use of "different" with the strongly verbal noun governor.
Inone sense, the difficulty "my be syntactic: "different" would inRussian normally be used with a plural noun, whereas a singular nounis strongly indicated in the present context.
The oddity of the con-struction is, thus, partly the result of conflicting "forces" in theadjective and the noun.Some sentences show the loss of meaning that may\ easily result fromthe expanslon 0f noun phrases by the addition of Ee~itive noun mod-ifiers.
(13) Uravnenie zakonovra_~ada effekta pribli~eni~ pulucenl.The equation of the laws of the decay of the effect of approxl-matlo_._.____n.nn is obtained.The problem here is apparently the use of "effect" in two differentphrases: "the decay of the (e.g., photoelastic) effect" is the kindof phrase found in physics texts, as is "the effect of approxima-ting (e.g., the energy)."
The confusion in (13) may be explainedby the fact that the former expression refers to a physical phenom-enon, whereas the latter refers to an exercise of the mind; the twoincompatible phrases are forced together by the fact that "effect"is common to both.
The anomaly may also be explained, more simply,by the different lexlcal properties of "effect.
"A similar problem.my also arise iners in a noun phrase.
Thus, in theof adjectlve/noun," varying degreesthe adjectives:the use of two adjective modlfl-construction, "adjective/nounof f ltness.my be observed forAll (the) present ..Usual theoreticalNew results of detailed investigation showI ncor rec t  futureExperimental-8 -Should some of these combinations be forbidden?
If so, on whatbasis?
What is the effect of expanding the grammar so that con-ditional clauses ("if .
.
., then .
.
.")
can be generated?
Onepossibility is that adjectives can be semantically classified, sothat logically incompatible combinations can be avoided.
It isdifficult to estimate whether or not such a path of investigationis fruitful.At the present stage of research, problems of semantic "interfer-ence" have occurred infrequently.
The generation of certain problemconstructions is strongly indicated.
For example, the program can bemodified so as to produce, at a given point, one hundred sentences inwhich the construction, '~oun of noun of noun," appears; likewise, itcan be required that the second of the three nouns be a specific word(e.g., "effect").
From an examination of the output, we hope to gainsome insight into the question of semantic compatibility.REFERENCESI .
Hays, D. G., Basic P r inc ip les  and Technical  Var ia t ions  in2.3.4.5.Sentence-Structure Determination, The ~ Corporation,P-1984, May 1960.Edmundson, H. P., K. E. Harper, D. G. Hays and B. J. Scott,'~4anual for Posteditlng RusslanText," Mechanical Transla-tio_._.nn, Vol.
6, 1961.Kozak, A. S. and C. H. Smith, Studies in Machine Transla-tion--12: A Glossary of Russian Physics, The RAND Corpora-tion, RM-2655, October 1960.Harper, K. E., .Measurement of Similarity Between Nouns, TheRAND Corporation, RM-4532-PR, May 1965.Sparck-Jones, K., "A Small Semantic Classification Experi-ment Using Cooccurrence Data," M. L. 196, Cambridge LanguageResearch Unit, January 1967.6.
Harper, K.E., Some Combinatorial Properties of Russian Nouns,The RAND Corporation, RM-5077-PR, September 1966.SUMMARY - Syntactic and Semantic Problems in Automatic SentenceGenerationA computer program for the automatic generation of sentences waswritten, based on a simplified dependency grammar for Russlan anda vocabulary of 550 words.
Each word is provided a list of al-lowable constituents; the structure of a sentence is conditionedentirely by the lexical items chosen at each node in the dependencytree.
Some of the generated sentences exhibit certain syntacticdeficiencies (nouns are inadequately complemented or are given thewrong number); other problems result from the "interference" of.semantic fields beyond the context of the word-palr.9 -
