/CAN OVERT SYNTACTIC STRUCTURE BE INTERPRETEDAS A LOGICAL DEVICE ?Helmut RICHTER and Georg HINCHAUniversity of Cologne, GermanyRESUMEAttempts to reduce syntactic Structures to logical ones , as knownto the authors, tend to discover a special kind of underlying structure beyondthe overt syntactic constructions.
In an alternative approach, the authors tryto interpret as much as possible of overt syntactic strucoa~, as in~nediatelyrepresenting the elements of a particular logical calculus.
The paper to be pre-sented is planned to be an extension of the authors' Syllogon Model which willbe published for the first time at the Conference of the Societas LinguisticaEuropea in Brussels, 2nd April, 1967.It is asked whether the Syntactic elements of natural languages canbe said to correspond to the elements of the calculus of multiple relations~i.e., may be identified with the particular variables, constants, and operator sof that calculus.
This seems to be possible not only in the general sense thatrelations remaining under a certain threshold of logical complexity can beverbalized.
(Such verbal paraphrasing may be exemplified by REICHEMBACH classifyingthe preposition between as a three-place relation, obviously relying on con~nonunderstanding or alleged semantics.
This interpretation reminds of illustrativeexamples in textbooks of symbolic logic.)
It should, however, also be possibleto show that, regardless of content, syntactic elements organize into specificsets according to their functions as logical entities.The authors tentatively start froa the axiomatic premises that theslot of the relation variables is filled by finite verb forms and combinationsof the type copulative plus nominal, whereas the slot of object variables isfilled by nominals (at least those being granmmtical subjects and objects).
AsylloKon is defined as a syntactic construction when interpreted as a predicativefunction.
A syllogon is called a n-syllogon if it is identifiable with a n-placerelation.
The class of the n-sylloga is the n-syllogeme.-I-All syntactic structures known to be universal are either !-syllogaior 2-sylloga.
(Possibly, syllogeme~ of higher order maY be necessary to account"for constructions with subordinate sentences).
In order to become a statement,generally a predicative function must be either quantified, or its variables mustbe substituted by individual names.
While the constituents of the predicativefunction must be overtly present in natural syntax, the explicit quantificationof a syllogon is optional.
Thus, many sentences, taken in isolati0~ , remainmere predicative functions, which imposes serious restrictions upon any attemptto detect a peculiar covert structure (of separate sentences) aimed at by somelinguists under the labels of depth structure, innere Form, nomostructure, andthe like.
Rather, something-like "quantification by context of situation" mustbe conceived of.On the other hand, many of those linguistic elements denoting aqualification are loaded with additional meaning.
It is distinguished, withregard to predicative functions in natural languages, between the strictlyextentional aspect of quantification and additional features in the productionof statements.
(We therefore subsume both qua~ificationand additional featuresunder the more general label of amplification.
)Variables in the different slots may be augmented by subordinatesyntactic elements.
It is this device which provides natural languages withthe possibility to hint, within its restricted algorithm, at fairly complexrelationships.
Present investigation is devoted to the question how subordinatesentences can be accounted for along the lines of the present scope.It is to be hoped that the syllogon model, with its emphasis on theovert structure as a restricted but clearly determined ~mechan ism,  willoffer a ~ewway of tackling with the problems of ambiguity in translation.
