1967 INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCEON COMPUTATIONAL L INGUIST ICSAn INTEGRATED LANGUAGETHE0,RYS.
Abraham7; 13 Decembrle , Timlsoara IV, RumaniaRumanian Mathematical SocietyvABSTRACT.
?
The outlines of an INTEGRATED LANGUAGE THEORY are drawn,with granmmr, semantics and text-theory as components.
Problems of machineretrieva!
and machine translation are discussed on the bas i~f  the outlinedtheory.At present it is unanimously agreed that no computational linguistics ?
can bedeveloped without an (before - hand constructed) eXact language theory.
(The computer - handling of such an exact4theory is in no way a transparentproblem).
The aim of the present paper is to outline such an exact integratedlanguage theory.The most promising basis for such a theory is the generative view on language.Unfortunately the generative theory of language is at present unsatisfacto-rily developed.
First, this is true for generative grammars.
But all otherlanguage theory constructions rely heavily on grammar (Katz & Fodor, Katz &Postal, Abraham & Kiefer).At present generative grammar consists of two components : a phrase -structure compgnent and a transformational one (I do not touch upon theproblems of the phonemic and morphophonemic levels).
In Chomaky's formula-tfon the phrase - structure component necessarily contains context-restrictedrules.
But this has the unpleasant consequence that the most important decisionproblems are unsolvable (in this component).
Besides this, no satisfactorysolution is formulated for the generation of discontinous structures.Chomsky's last formulation of this component has even some more inconveniences.The transformational component has no exact formulation as the transformationalrules are unsatisfactorily defined.
The problem of analysis is also notsatisfactorily solved.For these reasons I propose a generative grammar also of two components :a matrix component and a transformational component.
The matrix componentconsists of a regular elementary matrix ~rammar, containing only (ordered)elementary context - free rules , with Solvable main decision problems,and which generates in a natural way discontinous structures.
Within thetransformational component the notion of transformational rule is exactlydefined.
The problem of an adequate analysis (of the generated sentences),the main problem of generative language theory, is s~isfactori l  M solved- l ""rby introducing the following analyses (graphs) : morphological (whichusually is called the (phrase - structure) derivational graph), syntactical(not considered in Chomsky's variant), configurational (not consideredin Chomsky's variant).At present no (integrated) language theory can be conceived without a ?semantic component.
In the theory which is outlined the semantic componentis constructed as follows.
A finite number of semantic categories (of thegiven language) are considered.
Each word of the language is characterizedby a proper semantic matrix and its definition .
The dictionary of the languageconsists of triplets (word, proper semantic matrix, definition) calledlexical issues.
Each word of a configuration is characterized by itsSemantic matrix and its definition.
On the basis of the semantic matricesthe notion of semantic regularity of configurations is defined.
The semanticregularity of a sentence is defined as the condition of the semantic regula-rity of all the configurations in the configurational analysis of thesentence.
The sense of a(semantic regular) sentence i~'its configu~ationalgraph, with all the words substituted by their lexical issues.
The notionof truth is introduced (in accordance with Tarski), and three types ofanaliticity are defined : grammatical, semantical and deductive analit?icity.On the basis of the above outlined theory an exact text eomponen~?~isdeveloped, i.e.
a component of the integrated language theory which dealswith units larger than the sentence.The outl inedintegrated language theory differs essentially from theconstructions of Chomsky, Katz & Fodor, Katz et Postal, Abraham & Kiefer.The exactly (and formally) constructed language theory permits to givea satisfactory solution to the theoreticali~ based machine translationand machine retrieval.
This last is formulated in the terms of A -oriented~bstract (of a paper), ~ - oriented abstract, N - oriented abstract,minimal N - oriented abstract, maximal N -oriented abstract and E - maximalsuperior N - oriented abstract.-2-BIBLIOGRAPHIEI - R. C. CR05, J. C. 8ARDIN, F. LEVY : "L'automatisation dee recherches documen-ta i res .
Un module g~n~ral : l e  5YNTOL."
Gauth ie r -V i l l a rs ,  Par i s ,  1964, 260 p.2 - A. BORILLO, M. COYAUD, J. VIRBEL : "Etude sur l ' indexation automatique".Convent ion'de recherche n ~ 65 - FR - 160 de la  D~16gation 86n6rale ~ laRecherche 5c ient i f ique  et  Technique.
Rapport Semeetr ie l  n !
1, juin 1966,37 p.3 - M. COYAUD : "Une m~thode s~mantique dtindexation automatique de documents",International Conference on Computational Linguistics, New-York, mai 1965,32 p.4 - M. COYAUD et N. 510T-DECAUVILLE, "L'analyse automatique des documents",Mouton, Paris 1967 (sous presee) .5 - "Un syst~me g~n~ral de documentation automat ique,  le  ~YNTOL", Presses acad@-miques europ6ennes, Bruxelles, 1964, 4 tomes, 588 p.
