AUTOMATIC S I~IAT ION OF HISTORICAL CHANGERaoul N. SmithNorthwestern University0.0 Purpose.
One of the principal reasons for studying the historyof a language has been to explain the system of its modern reflex,the contemporary language.
This has been especially true inattempting to deal with certain anomalies in the modern language.But the role, if appropriate, of utilizing information concerningdiaehronie processes in a synchronic description is not a~ alliclear.
Recent studies describing contemporary languages, basedpurely on synchronically motivated grounds, suggest a much moreintimate relation between a synchronic grammar and what has been2previously posited as a dlachronic description of that language.The two major problems involved in historical studies havebeen the statement of the sound change (or, as this has beenreinterpreted, the grammar change) and the relation of this changeto other diachronic changes, that is, its relative chronology.A great deal of attention has been paid to the former but verylittle to the latter, whose significance has g-oatly increased1See, for example, Lightner, 1965 and Schaehter and Fromkin, 1968.2Since a naive native speaker of a language can not be ex~cte  +know the history of his language, the reason for this rei~.ionmay lie in the manner in which the rules were added to the grammarsof his ancestors.
It is hoped that the future results of thisstudy will help to shed light on this relation by comparing themand their associated grammars with synchronic descriptions.due to recent results in generative grammar.
One of the reasonsfor the lack of rigor in stating the relative chronology hasprobably been the large amounts of data required for input to theset of rules and the very large number of stages/rules which mustbe accounted for and the many permutations of these rules whichshould be tested.
This lack of rigor, in turn, has made it verydifficult to discuss coherently the historical development of alanguage.The purpose of this paper is to discuss certain limitedaspects of historical language change and suggest the possibleuse of the computer in approaching their solution.
The types ofproblems discussed are only phonological and include only thosechanges conditioned by phonetic environment and which do notrequire syntactic information (for example, the change of theOld Russian unstressed infinitive ending /t'i/ to /t'/).1.0 Language change.
The discovery or postulation of the historyo f  a language has been approached by two rather well-known methods.These are the reconstruction of the parent language of a set ofgenetically related languages and the reconstruction of an olderstage of a language given a later stage.
Both assume thatlanguages evolve, thst is, change (either gradually or abruptly)and that the relation of one language stage to the  other is thatone preceded the other.
By comparing these stages in thedevelopment of the same or related sister languages one can3therefore reconstruct or recover the parent or proto language fromwhich it or its sister languages evolved.The two problems or reconstruct lon -- the reconstruction ofa parent language of related sister languages and the reconstructionof an earlier form of a single language -- have been approached byseparate methods.The problem of reconstructing the parent of a set of relatedsister languages has been formalized by the so-called comparativemethod.
The comparative method assumea~ among other things and ina simplified version, that hF comparing sets of sounds occurringin the same positions of the same words in the sister languagesone can reconst ruct  the sound from whi h these sister soundsevolved.
("Same position" and "same word" may be difficult todefine in a particular case.)
For example, the word for "three"in various Indo-European languages isJ"Sanskrit trayahGreek LMI  #5 "Latin tresGothic ~reisLithuanian trysOld Church Slavonic tr~jeSince five of the six forms have some kind of voiceless, dental stopin word initial position and that the fricative in Gothic can beaccounted for by a change particular to Gothic, the assumption ismade that the parent language of these, Proto-lndo-European, had4a voiceless, dental stop symbolized by *t, and this fact ishighlighted by arranging these correspondences in tabular form:PIE Skr G~ Lat Go Lith OCS*t t ~ t ~ t tIOnce the proto language has been reconstructed, the correspon-dences used in the reconstruction can be reinterpreted as theresults of phonological changes, for example, Proto-lndo-European*t became t in Old Church Slavonic, or, as it is usually expressedPIE *t > OCS tThe problem of discovering an older stage of a languagegiven only a later stage of that language is approached byexamining certain alternations in the language at the later stageand from these postulate a proto form from which it could haveevolved.
The alternations in the later s tagewhich are usuallychosen are in the form of morphophonemic alternations, that is,phonemically differently shaped forms of the same morpheme.
Theassumption is made that these irregularities in the shape of onenand the same morpheme must have been condi t i~d regularly so thatby postulating one proto form and accounting for the change by ageneral rule, we have successfully reconstructed that form of theearlier language.IThe forms of the proto language reconstructed by thecomparative method can be interpreted as a statement of thestate of the art in reconstruction for that language family.5 ~For example, in Modern Russian the first person singularpresent of the verb "to be able" is /mogu/ and the second personsingular is /mo~i~/.
The first singular of "to read" is /~itaju/and the second singular is /~itaji~/.
From these and other setsof verbs we would conclude that the first singular ending is /u/and that of the second singular is /i~/.
Therefore, the stemmorpheme alternants must be ImogNmo~# and \[~itaj ~ ~itaj}The first of these two sets exhibits a morphophonemic alternationof g/~.
This same alternation in the first person singular occursin other sets of verbs when the stem ends in a velar.
From this(and other corroborative forms) we postulate that an earlierstage of Russian had one form for this verb stem, namely /mog/,and that before the vowel /i/ /g/ later became /~/.The proposal in this paper is to reverse the bottom-to-topmodel of the comparative method and that of internal reconstructioninto a top-to-bottom generative model where the input forms arereconstructed leKical items and the rules are the set of postulatedsound changes for the language.
But there are two major difficul-ties in reversing the older models.
One, the documented changeshave often been incorrectly or incompletely stated and, two, therelative chronology of various rules ~as not been adequatelydescribed.
We hope to show how the computer can be used at leastto test the accuracy of the rules and secondly to test or, hopefully,to help discover the relative chronology of the rules exhibitedby their ordering.6The model )roposed here is one where the proto language is aset of reconstructed forms (chosen, for example, from a standardreference work).
The rules describing the phonological changesin that language are then described and ordered.
As the programoperates on these forms, the output from each rule represents asynchronic stage in the development of that language.
As finaloutput one hopes to get the modern language.
If any of the outputis incorrect, then it is assumed to be from one of four possiblesources: an incorrectly formulated rule (including analogicalformation), a non-existent rule, an incorrectly ordered rule,or an incorrectly reconstructed form.
Being able to differentiatewhich of these is the actual cause for the incorrect output issimplest only in the case where all of the output was the resultof the application o?
only one rule.2.0 A sketch of the phonological ~ of Russian.
The ruleswhich were tested were an abridged version of a set presented by1the author in a recent paper.
The rules attempt to account forcertain aspects of the development of the phonological system ofC~ntemporary Standard Russian from a late form of Proto-Indo-European.
These rules were:IKantor, Marvin and R.N.
Smith, "A sketch of the major develppmentsin Russian historical phonology" (to appear).
The original formu-lation was in terms of distinctive features; however, for thisprogrammatic study a segmental notation has been used for ease ofstatement, etc.1.
,\]g~L.
Lkl g k~ g~2.3.8 > ,li} non-obst ruent4,5.
\[ {~:}a6.
t k \] gx \],-If}7. tdSZj>  / J8.J l J fW9.10 .11 .13 .i I?l YbeL-~ j{1} !
nr\[i 114,xv > 15. e aJ16.
or  o roo l  C C ol ~ /ere/erLo:oj\[:i > L_I/918.
w > v,~.
~ > ~, / ~21.
~ > eSome of these rules appear in a less formal and explicitway in all standard texts of the history of the Russian languagebut none of them has all of these rules and in most cases thereis little or no discussion of ordering?10~.0 Description of test.
Approximately five hundred reconstructedProto-lndo-European forms were chosen from Walde and Pokorny (1932).These were punched onto cards along with their English glosses.A separate Russian gloss was typed onto a print-out of the PIEforms.
The transcription of Walde and Pokorny for the PIElexical items was maintained as closely as possible, ?ncludingsuch notations as subscript e and o.
The only criterion imposedon choice of words was that they be as long as possible, so as tohave a variety of environments.The program was written in SNOBOL4 for the CDC 6400.
Each ruleset was numbered so as to coincide with the set of rules listedin section 2, wlth a zero appended to each rule number so as toallow for later insertions.
Changing a rule consists at themoment of simple removal and replacement of cards.
The historyof a word or set of words can be gotten by a11'owlng it to beprocessed with accompanying output generated by each rule set.Similarly, the lexicon for a particular stage can be generated byallowing the input to be processed up through the rule covering thatstage and, if wanted, suppressing output from intermediate stages.With the availability of larger storage capacity the output f~emeach stage can be generated once and stored in such a way thatit can be referenced simply and thereby ellminate regeneration ofinput forms when the need for a rule change arises.Frequency counters will be added in older to measure thefunctional load of a rule, at least in terms of dictionaryIIfrequency.
How this can be incorporated meaningfully into atheory of language change is not clear at this time.The effect of borrowing can be simulated by introduction oflexical items just prior to a specific stage, There are toomany variables involved in this case and the predictions have beenpoor.
The effects of loss of original PIE are even more obviousbut will require much further study.4.0 Discussion of results.
The program is obviously languagedependent but the basic conception is of general applicability.The set of rules described in section 2.0 has been programmedand has successfully predicted the Modern Russian form from thePIE input in many cases including the following:PIEE Hod.
Russian*bhel~ h- boloz-*medhi - me~-*aloNg- slug-*ang~hi - u~*~orm- sram*~omb h- zub*g~rffg h- griz-The number of forms of PIE which were not related toModern Russian was much greater.
The main reason is probablydue to loss (again assuming a uniform parent PIE as the solesource of the lexicon).
The differences between generated12and actual Modern Russian could be accounted for in a few instances,for example *apsa did not become Mod.
R 'osina' in part becausethere are no explicit rules in the program for the simplificationof consonant clusters.
But other incorrect outputs can not beaccounted for in many instances by any easily accessible, docu-mented rule.
For example, there is no rule to handle the twodisparate outputs from similar input forms with respect to theinitial cluster 'sp-' in the formsPIE Mod.
Russian*sperg- pr'ad-*sp le~ h- selez-Similarly, there is a rule eu>u,  for example, to account for*leut- becoming l~ud -, and others, but there are at least twoexceptions to this r~le:~bhreu~k - b ros -*bhleu - bles-Whether the original rule has too general an environmentalcondition or whether u was generated and later underwent someother changes, heretofore unpostulated, is unknown.
It ispossible that these forms should not have been considered ascorrespondences.No case of an error in rule ordering has been found yet forlthis sample.Examining the output is at times a forbidding task.
It mayhelp to simplify the discovery of causes of error by generatingthe output of each rule in the form of a KWIC index where theoccurrences of each phone would be grouped together and the13environments then made quite clear.
When input and output arethen compared one might find more easily why a rule was notapplied or why it should be generalized, etc.5.0 Conclusions.
This paper is necessarily meant to be only apreliminary progress report and as such has raised many otherquestions in addition to its concrete results.
Some of thesequestions are very basic, in particular, since many of the outputforms could not be accounted for, should one really attempt togenerate forms of a modern language from reconstructed lexicalitems if the rules used are not those postulated during theprocess of reconstruction since the former should be a recordof the latter.
Given, therefore, a set of reconstructed formsand a separate set of rules, it becomes very difficult toaccount for the source of errors in the output.
Also, theassumption of a uniform, single-stage ~roto language may requiremany restrictions.The computer can under ideal conditions be successfullyused in testing hypothesized changes in the history of alanguage, given certain simplifying assumptions.
It can beexpected to operate best when the rules and reconstructed protoforms are established by the same investigator, working withinthe bounds established by a general theory of historical change.14BibliographyKantor, Marvin and R. N. Smith, "A sketch of the major developmentsin Russian historical phonology" (to appear).Lightner, Theodore M., Segmental phonology of modern standardRussian.
MIT dissertation, 1965.Schachter, Paul and V. Fromkin, ~ phonology of Akan: Akuapem,Asante and Fante.
(Working Papers in Phonetics No.
9)UCLA, 1968.Walde, A. and J. Pokorny, Ver~leichendes Worterhuch der indo-~ermanlschenSprachen.
Berlin, 1932.
