Prepr in t  No.
5 Classi f icat ion:  D 1.2AN APPLICATION OF COMPUTER PROGRAMMING TO THERECONSTRUCTION OF A PROTO-LANGUAGEStanton P. Durham and David Ellis RogersUniversity of Michiganl.Purpose.
This paper illustrates the use of a computerprogram as a tool in linguistic research.
The programunder consideration produces a concordance on words ac-cording to phonological segments and environments.
Pho-nological segments are defined as a predetermined aet ofconsonants and vowels.
An environment is defined as thelocus of occurrence of any of the phonological segments.The concordance facil itates the recognition of sound cor-respondances that lead to the reconstruction of a proto-language.2.0,Program Description.
The program for production ofthe concordance was written in the SNOBOL4 programminglanguage, which was selected because of its pattern match-1 ing capabilities.
The summary Flow Chart of the program,found in ?7, should be adequate for the experienced rea-der.
Nevertheless, a few general comments are in order.2.1.1nitlallzation.
All patterns to be used in the pro-gram are created during the Initialization.
As originallyconceived, the program was composed of one long run where1For a full exposition of SNOBOL4, see Griswold, R.E.,Page, J.F., and Polonsky, I.P., The SNOBOL4 ProgrammingLan_~.
Holmdel, New Jersey, Bell.
19~8.2all steps of the analysis were carried out.
However, dueto problems of internal storage caused by the numerousdata, it was decided to run the program in two passes,each of which is explained below.2.2.Pass One.
During the first pass of the program allcards of an item are read.
An item is defined as theClassical Latin dictionary form, followed by the author'sphonemicization of the Latin form according to the mostconservative estimate of the maximal phonological systemcapable of giving rise to the various dialects of spokenLatin.
These two elements are followed optionally by themodern ~eflexes in as many as eleven dialects from thearea commonly subsumed under the heading Franco-Proven-cal.
An optional comment concludes the item.As the items are read, determination is made ofthe largest size of each element for later column slign-ment in the print-out.
Each item is then stored as astrlmE named after the sequential number assigned to the~tem, and the phonological form on which the concordancewill be based is selected.
The phonological form is thenanalyzed, ln order to retain the generic types and specificsegment-environments occurring in that,phonological form,A generic type is defined as a consonant or vowel in agiven environment, as for example, word-initial consonant3or tonic free vowel.
A specific segment-environment isdefined as one certain consonant or vowel in a given en-vironment, as for example, word-initial P or tonic free A.For each specific segment-environment found, a list iscreated composed of the numbers of the items containingthat specific segment-envlronment.As all items are read and analyzed, errors in phono-logical form are outputted.
After the analysis of all in-put items is completed, a generic type list is examinedfor a specific segment-environment.
From the list namedafter that specific segment-environment the numbers of theitems containing the specific segment-environment are ob-tained and the items are written onto tape in condensedform for accessing in Pass Two.2.3.Pass Two.
During the second pass.
the condensed lis-tings are accessed from the tape, along with the largestsize of each element, and alignment of columns is madeJust prior to printing for easier reading of the print-out.3.0.S~eclfication.
The program is designed to list allwords in a dialect (for example, Latin or a present-daydialect of Latin) containing a specific segment in a givenenvironment.
The order for the production of the lists isoutlined in the following paragraphs.3 .
1 .
~  Consonants.
All words containing single conson-4ants are listed according to two parameters: a predeter-mined order of those consonants and, within that parameter,according to the fol~owing environments: word-initial, ge-minate, syllable-initial, syllable-flnal, and word-flna~position.
A geminate consonant is defined as a long con-sonant, sometimes described as double, occurring acrosssyllable boundaries.3.2.Ciu__ sters.
A cluster is defined as the occurrence oftwo or more consonants in immediate succession in the samesyllable.
All words containing clusters of two consonantsare l isted according to the parameters of ~3.1, but in re-verse order.
This order of consonants is the same as theorder used to list single consonants with the additionalst ipulation that the value of the consonant In left-mostposition have precedence ever the one in rlght-most posi-tion, as in any dictionary order.Lists of words containing clusters of three or moreconsonants follow, according to the same parameters asthose specified for two-consonant clusters.
Where thereare different numbers of consonants (three or more) in theclusters, the words are listed giving the highest value tothe consonant in the n th position, followed by the conson-ant in the n ~ I th position (counting consonants from leftto right), and according to the predetermined order of con-5sonants.
For example, given the predetermined order KPWFSTDMNRBLJGQXZ, listings of words having the following clu-sters in word-inltial position would appear in this order:all words containing word-lnitial KLJ" ' .
.
.
.
.
KJ.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
STR" ' .
.
.
.
.
ST RJ.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
STJ" .
.
.
.
.
.
.
MJ.3.3.Sequences.
A sequence is defined as the occurrence oftwo or more consonants in immediate succession across syl-lable boundaries, the syllable boundary always being indi-cated by a period.
Words containing strong sequences, com-posed of a geminate consonant plus at least one additionalconsonant, are listed first, and the sequence is abbrevia-ted CI.CI Cn.
The order of the listing is the same as thatspecified in ~3.1, except that there is only one environ-ment, "strong."
For example, given the predetermined or-der KPWFSTDMNRBLJGQXZ, listings of words having the follow-ing strong sequences would appear in this orders K.KL,K.KJ, P.PJ, T.TJ, N.NTR, N.NTRJ.Following the words containing strong sequences,all other sequences are listed.
The first words listed arethose with two-consonant sequences!
that is, sequences withonly one consonant on either side of the syllable boundary,abbreviated C1.C 2.
Then all words containing sequencesof a single consonant followed by a syllable boundary,6by more than one consonant, abbreviated C1.C2Cn , fol lowedare listed!
followed by words containing all other sequen-ces, abbreviated cnc.c(cn), where the parentheses indicateoptlonality.
In each of these listings the consonant orth syllable boundary in the n position has higher valuethan the consonant in the n v i th position (consonantsbeing counted from left to right).
For example~ if thefol lowing sequences were found, they would be listed in thefol lowing order: M.P, R.L, N.STJ, R.LJ, NT.T, NT.TJ.3.5.Vowels.
Words containing vowe\]s are listed next, ac-cording to the fol lowing ordered parameters and subpara-meters: s t ress  (tonic, pre-tonlc, post-tonic), length(long, non-long), position (in free or checked syllable),and the predetermined order of vowels.
For example, giventhe predetermined order ~EAOU, the listings would occurfn the fol lowing order:ail words containing long tonic free I, I  I !
I, I I  I~ f' EI I  I I  I I  Ig ~I f lI I  I I  Ig I I  I I  I II I  ,e I I  I~ I I  I I  ~ fand so on, through the long tonic checked vowels, the non-long tonic free and checked vo~els, the long pre-tonlc freeand checked vowels, the non-long pre-tonic free and checkedvowels, etc., until all possible combinations of parame-ters have been listed.3.6.S~ecial Environments.
Listed lastly are occurrences7of the so-called velar consonants /k g kw gw/ (symbolizedin the program as K,G,Q,X) followed by a front vowel or/J/.
These lists are called "special" and are printed asa separate portion of the print-out, because of the well-known phenomen of the palatalization of these Latin conson-ants plus a front vowel or /J/?3.7.Errors.
Toward the end of the first pass, before thecondensed listings are outputted onto the tape, certainerrors are printed out.
Errors may be errors in phonolo-gical form, as for example, use in the phonological form ofa consonant symbol that has not been pre-defined, failureto punch a syllable boundary, or failure to punch length orstress symbols~ or the error may be the lack of occurrenceof the phonological form for which the program is search-ing.3 .8 .A l i __~nt .
The second pass is almost entirely composedof the subroutine in which the elements of an Itam arealigned in columns in the listings on the basis of the num-ber of characters in the longest occurrence of that parti-cular element.4.0.1nstructions to User.
A system of symbolization forvocalic and consonantal specific segments must be decidedon.
During the processing there must be only one computercharacter for each segment the computer will examine.
If8it is necessary (because of the non-availabil lty of manycustomary linguistic symbols as characters in the computeralphabet) to encode the data with two symbols for one pho-nological segment, the program should have all the doublesymbols used and the corrseponding single computer symbolsby which the program will process the data defined.
Be-cause of peculiarit ies in the program it is also necessaryto change any numbers, V, or C, that may be used as conson-antal or vocalic symbols in the phonological form to beconcordanced on to some other unique computer symbol.
Forexample, if theta a~d delta are encoded as TH and DH, andif the symbols C, V, and 5 are used in the input programand in the representation of a specific phonological seg-ment, then the fol lowing two statements should be insertedat the appropriate place in the program:EXT3 = 'TH DH C V ~INT3 = 'a b c d e 'where a, ~b, c, d, and e are unique symbols belonging to thecharacter set of the particular computer, and differentfrom other symbols punched in the phonological form to beconcordanced on.
In the present program double symbols arefreely used in the transcription of the dialect reflexes.IIf a concordance is to be produced on the basis of one ofthe dialects, the above modifications must still apply.~.l.Restrictions.
The present program is designed to con-9cordance on the second element of an item, the phonologicalrepresentation of the spoken Latin form.
To produce a con-cordance on a dialect, the phonological form to be concor-danced on must be redefined.A special environment may be searched for and listedseparately by means of the insertatlon of a statement de-fining an appropriate pattern in the ~nitial ization of theprogram, and by the placement of a search for that patternin the body of the program.
If one is producing a concor-dance on a particular dialect, then special environmentsmay be defined according to symbols used in that particu-lar dialect.4.2,Encoding of the Data.
All cards will have informationbeginning in column one and may have information punchedcontinuously through column seventy-five, Columns seventy-six through eighty may be unlque\]y sequentially numberedfor each entry (column seventy-nlne having units positionand column eighty being saved for insertions).
A linguis-tic unit may be split between cards; in such cases no hy-phenation will be needed.
That is, in all ~nstanees theinformation beginning in the first column of the second andsubsequent cards of an entry will be abutted to the seven-ty-fifth column of the previous card.The first card of an item will begin in column onewith the dictionary entry of the Latin word, with bothI0vowel length and stress indicated, followed by two spaces.Indication of stress is redundant, stress being predictablein Classical Latin.
However, stress is indicated in dic-tionary fashion, as an aid toward rapid recognition of theproper stress by the reader.
Though the accusative singu-lar of Classical Latin nouns is the citation form, withfew exceptions, for the first element, the final m has inall instances been omitted.
Thus, where the noun nox iscited, it is spelled NO-CTE, rather than NO-CTEM, to savespace, and because texts which cite spoken Latin nouns usu-ally cite such nouns without final 2.
The asterisk is usedto indicate an unattested Classical Latin form, in most in-stances taken from Wilhelm Meyer-Lubke's Romanishces Et Z-I,molo~isches Wortebuch, but in a few instances posited bythe author.
In all cases where words of Germanic or Celticorigin have been latinized in spelling, they are also pre-ceded by an asterisk.
In Latin dictionary forms of morethan one word, the words are separated by a plus, which isremovedat  the end of the program.The second l inguistic information, the phonemiciza-tion of the spoken Latin word, is fol lowed by at least onespace.
The dialect entries follow, each composed of,first, the identifying abbreviation enclosed in parenthesesand second, the reflex in that dialect, preceded by onespace and fol lowed by at least one space.
At least one11space is obligatory after each dialect entry, but morespaces facilitate correction of an erroneously punchedform.
An optional comment concludes the item; the abbre-viation for the co~Lment, (CON), must precede the commentand be followed by one space.
When dialect identifyingabbreviations are used in the comment, they must not beenclosed in parentheses, lest the computer mistake one ofthese abbreviations for the actual identifier.
~n end-of-item slash completes the item, and a single space is obli-gatory before the slash.5.Example.
The examination of one item will suffice toillustrate the working of the program.
Let us suppose theitem currently under consideration by the computer is theLatin word alteru.
The data cards containing this word andits reflexes w~11 have the followlng information:A-LTERU A-L.TRU (B) < :-.TRE (V) ?
:-.TRO (O)A:-.TRO (A) O-TR (R) O-.TR@ (S)>: -TR  (P)O:-,TRU (N) A:-.TR> (COM) S IS PLU AND FINALVOW OF R,P,N ALL SEMI-PRONOUNCED.
B,V HAVE FEM<,-.TRA, >,-.TRA.
/ 000001where < stands for /~/I ?, /2%/I @, /8/~ and >, /D/.After the entire item has been read into computermemory, and determination has been made as to the size ofeach entry relative to the individual entries of all other12items, a search is made for the so-called "special" envir-onments, at Ci in the Flow Chart.
None of these environ-ments are applicable in the case of alteru.
Therefore,these searches will fail, and the next search will be fora word-lnit ial consonant or consonants, at C2 in the FlowChart.
In the case of alter~ this search, too, will fail,and the next search will be for a vowel, at A8 in the FlowChart.
A tonic vowel in a checked syllable will be foundat A8.2 and A8.6, and in the subroutine Br tonic checked Awill be queued to the string containing all tonlc checkedvowels, and the item number will be queued to a string con-taining the numbers of all items having a tonic checked A.The next search will be for a consonant or consonantsin all possible environments, beginning at  At0 in the FlowChar t .
Searches for a strong sequence or  a geminate con-~onant will fail.
At Ai2 the search for a sequence will besuccessful, the  sequence found being L.TR.
Once more, sub-routine B is entered, the sequence L.TR is queued to thestring labeled "sequence C.CC" at BI.1, if this is thefirst occurrence of L.TR, and the item number is queued tothe string containing the item numbers o f  all items havingthe sequence L.TR at B~2.
Next, at A131 the syllable-finalL, and at A14, the syllable-lnltial cluster TR, will bequeued respectively to the strings containing syllable-final consonants and syllable-initial clhsters, and the13item number will be queued to the strings containing thenumbers of all items having syllable-final L's in the onecase, and to the string containing the item numbers of allitems having syllable-initial TR in the other.The subsequent search for a post-tonic vowel willsucceed at A8.3, and the vowel U in free syllable (in factin word-final position) will, In subroutine B, be queued tothe string of post-tonlc vowels in free syllables, theitem number being queued to the string containing the itemnumbers of all items with post-tonic free U.
At this point,return is made out of subroutine B to the beginning of theprogram for the reading of the next item.After all items have been read and operated on, thestrings and their headings stored in computer memory areoutputted in condensed form onto magnetic tape.
The itemalteru will be found under the following headings~ syl-lable-final L, syllable-initial TR, sequence L.TR, tonicchecked A, and post-tonic free U.In Pass Two, the tape will be read, and the listingswill be printed with the elements of each item aligned incolumns.6?O?Li_~uistlc C0ncl~sions.
During the course of recon-struction, one interesting question that arose was thefollowing: do the so-called Franco-Provencal dialects14rea l ly  show f inal  (post-tonic)  vowels, as for example, inthe above-ment ioned  Lat in  etymon, a l teru?
With all itemsconta in ing  ref lexes of Lat in  post- tonic  free U in one con-ven ient  list, check ing the possible correspondances  is mademuch easier.
Alteru, for  example, shows the fo l lowing cor-respondances  :d ia lect  B E" 0 0" P U" N >" H (unavai lable)" V 0" D (unavai lable)~' C it" A zero??
R @" S zero,as do al l  examples of U after  a consonanta l  sequence.
How-ever, for  most other examples of C lass ica l  Lat in post - tonicfree U, al l  d ia lects  show zero.
On the basis  of all exam-ples under  the heading "post-tonlc free U" one may concludethat there is a ref lex of Lat in  post - tonic  U in these dia-lects  as asuppor t  vowel  af ter  an otherwise unpronounceab lesequence.
Furthermore,  this support  vowel keeps the qual i tyof its phonolog ica l  ancestor.Such quest ions  as this are capable  of much more ra-pid, if not surer, solution, by consu l ta t ion  of the l ist ingson the computer  print-out,  than s imply by means of the ex-aminat lon  of index cards, where examples might be skippedover.
The number  of examples avai lab le  for  examinat ion  is15greatly increased as well.
Since the data are so numerouswlth this method, very comprehensive analysis is requiredof the linguist.This program is general enough to be applicable inthe compilation of a concordance for any group of relateddialects for which such a concordance would be useful.
Forexample, In a proposed reconstruction of Proto-Slavlc, pre-sent-day reflexes of a selected corpus could be encoded andthe concordance produced on any one of the dialects selec-ted.The chief advantages of the use of the computer toproduce such a concordance are the increased facil ity forthe exhaustive handling of a large amount of data (as com-pared to the customary handling of data on index cards),and the avoidance of many time-consuming searches throughmany lists of forms for occurrences of a specific segmentin a specific environment, since all such lists are rea-dily available on the prlnt-out.7.Flow Chart, 16~fr f~Mixt  JI / -h&~=S~ IIELwMmur l~'lI$ E L ~CTIFo~A4 ~'oico.co~,~u?
I 0'~I~?~ sP~,~L~I?Ir s~r  VE,vV/A = "pRE.
To a'/C.
)IS~r I ENv iR  - ,I17H SGr'~'o~r.ro~/c.
'E'v'*'i'~ ="1I?
~L~rE ir I IV~TVVl~kFRoM Fae,~, I I~g'.2~F_ t .Er ,  ff ,; Tb~\ [ "  ENV) I~ ?S~r V~cv iR  =i T~f  TE~t'vf?
=PR iNt  PRINTq1rnmm.
TO.a o )V6r, ,  , /b )jQu.uu~ 1.13 ~.ao)181951~g?tF J  a" I5.?
(r4f~NY AM~ I~ l .n l "  i r  IJ, Ro~ FoR~ I\[S.rENI,'/ R .~\[ '6f.MiN~TE, ~g(p~6-e /7)N'oJ zA?
E ,2o)SO~" jFi~.S E SA~EIV'rI SEr  EA/V/'R - -20sP~ci ~icSE6-MB~ ~ql~I $#r  =~:WViR *$Yi.L~gJ.
?.~I.IFrE iT IIENVjR -" I(PAG?/7}NGMaMB~/~SP~?I~ICEHViR =t wo l~p,p~-____.2CP.~&E ig}C P,~Ga tW').
i: ?
?21RouT"j~ZN'OENViR  -P~ i F J  c -5 ~ ~-41~ Iv3 t"~t'S1"I-.,,,?oMa~ I"o. Ik'~vi, v,..~,~cipl(.I~ J~r ,I
