Constructional Potentiality: Prlscianlc gra1~nar as a dlsamblguatlontechnique in the automatic recognition of Latin syntaxIn most languages word order plays the major role in determiningwhich words form a single phrase or constitute.
A tree s?ructure can beabstracted automatically from a sentence by linear determination of themajor syntactic constitutes.
However, in certain highly-inflectedlanguages, of which Latin is perhaps the most extreme example, constitutesmay be broken up in the word order of the sentence.
Inflectional endingsform the signals for placing each constituent in its constitute.
Theoretic-ally the higher degree of syntactic explicitness provided by inflectionalmorphemes should make these languages easier to analyse.mechanlcally.
Yetit proves that there is a high degree of ambiguity in the morphemes ormorphophonemie alternations used to mark inflection and that nativespeakers rely heavily on their ability to identify both~e semantic meaningand the  in f lec t iona l  hab i ts  o f  a g iven  word .Recogn iz ing  th i s  s ta te  o f  a f fa i r s  those ins t i tu tes  invo lved  w i thautomat ic  pars ing  o f  Lat in ,  the  Laborato i re  pour  l lAna lyse  Stat i s t iquedes Langues Anclennes, Liege, and the Centro Automazlone AnalisiLinguistica,formerly in Gallarate but now in Pisa, have constructed rather largeparsing dictionaries which identify the word-class and inflectional habitsof lexlcal lenmmta.
These parsers do not, to my knowledge, produce treestructures of analysed sentences or give any deep-structure representatiflQ.Anlaternatlve approach to the automatic syntactic analyses ofLat in  i s  o f fe red  by the  const ruct iona l  syntax  o~ Lat in  deve loped by ?
r i sc ianf rom Greek grammat ica l  theory .
Each word i s  a mc.,mber o f  a t  leas t  one2-member const ruct ion .
There  are  two types  o f  const ruct lona l  re la t ionsh ipconvenientia (agreement), (a) verb agrees with subject in number, (b) adjectiveagrees with noun; regimen (government), (a) verb governs object, (b) pre-position governs noun.
Several word-classes do not participate in cons-tructions, notably connectives, some ordinal numerals, modifiers andadverbs, but these can be located in the syntax of the sentence, usuallyby word order, occasionally by the reduction of all possible constituenciesto one.
Prlsclan's llst of constructions must be extended in some directionssuch as to include the genitive (dependent on the nearest noun) and theablative.The deep s t ruc ture  of the Latin sentence can be shown to consist ofa left side containing, as in Chinese, a cluster of presentences, labelsand topics, and a right side, which proceeds logically towards the speaker'scomment on the main topic.
The items of the deep structure are formed intoa syntax tree structure (slmilar to the Russlan~-structure) by virtueof their membership in constructions legal in Latin syntax.The first word of the sentence, if inflected, has a constructionalpotentiality assigned to each possible inflectional segment metched in alook-up of inflectional morphemes.
Each inflectional morpheme has a codeof constructional potentiality assigning to it all possible syntactic roles.The probability factor is not the same for this potentiality in the firstposition as for this potentiality further to the right in the sentence.The parsing program assigns construction ~des  to each possible construc-tional pair until it arrives at a series of surface-level hmodes which makea wel l - formed~-structure.By adding to the dlct ionarythe constructlonal potentiality of alllexical items which are basic verbs one can assign values and sem--tic featuresto the words belonging to the multl-member constructions of transitive andbl-transitlve verbs.
-2
