Irene R. FalrleyC.W.Post College, L.I.U.Greenvale, New York?
Stylistic Analysis of PoetryThe Trlcon program has been adapted as an aid to theanalysis of syntax in poetry with the hope of identifyingthe dominant patterns that characterize a poet's style.The Trlcon program (described in Concordances from Com-~ , S.M.Lamb and L.Gould, University of Callf0~nia, ey,1964)has three active lines which this research-er has used for text, syntactic analysis (following aphrase-str~cture grammar) and a deviance indicator.
Theanalysis for the three lines is charted and then trans-fered to punched cards.
Abbreviated alphabetical symbolsare used for the syntactic analysis (AP=adJective phrase)because of the program's 24unlt search limitation.The program provides the usual textual concordancesfor vocabulary, punctuation, etc., and a concordance ofsyntactic patterns and deviances.
Syntactic and deviancelines may be concorded for identiSal units (wholes: ~-I~P-PP-P) Or for partials (all tokens for S or P).
The pro-gram has a wide range of subsort possibil it ies includingmultl-dlmenslonal crossconcordance : subsorts are possibleby left or right context on all three lines.
It also hasthe advantage of a neat multi-l ine centered print-out,so that the searched token appears with left and ri~ntcontext; this is especially helpful in the analysis ofpoetry.
The concordances provide totals of the number oftokens for each type as well as totals of the number oftypes and tokens searched.An extensive analysis of a poet' s poems with the aidof a program llke Trlcon could provide the basis for aformulaic expression of the poet's syntactic habits, asa set of patterns and deviances.
This kind of analysismight aid in the comparison of styles by Identifylngdifferences in their dominant and minor syntacticpatterns and deviations (qualitative distinctions) andthe variations in their frequencies of occurrence (quan-tltatfwe distinctions).
Such a formal treatment, ofcourse, looks far into the future, and a program llke Trl-con must be regarded as at best a breaking of ground.This researcher is exploring Tricon' s possibil it ies inthe analysis of e.e.
cummings poetry.
A substantialanalysis of h l spoems usln~ Trlcon would help determinewhat syntactic patterms create the "cummings style" andto what extent and in what manner they are deviant fromthe standard grammar of English.
