Some Remarks on J.L.Mey's Paper for the InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics, Sweden 1969P.Sgall, E.Haji~oviMey's criticism of the functional approac~ to gene-rative description concerns (1) the formal propertiesof the system proposed by Sgall et el.
(its weak gene-rative power, recursivit$~), and (2) some itl~or!~al que-stions connected with the mentioned approach.
(1) From the formal point of view, Mey's paper con-tains many quite unclear points and errors, which makehis cl~Jms unfounded.
Some of those may be due to a me-re unpreciseness and carelessness Jn formulations (cf.for instance P.7, where he speaks ~,bout "e languagethat is not CF, or may be not even regular", w!ich isas if one says "This mineral is not found in Europe,not even in whole Switzerland") but others hsve a moreconsequential bearing on his further argumentation.
Heconfuses (p.3) the trsnsl~tion by the means of s push-down store transducer in Evey's sense (henceforth pdt)with the question of CF-preservation in the sense ofGinsburg (and Rose); he dose not seem to realize fully(pp.3-4) that Sgall et aluse only the notion of pdtin the sense of Evey and not in that of Ginsburg.Ginsburg and Rose's theorem is not identical with Evey'stheorem 2.6.6, which is based on a different definit ionof pdt, connected with notions of input and output lan-guages defined by the means of the notion of computation.Although the theorem of Ginsburg and Rose, partly inspi-- 2 -red  by that of Evey, needed a correction, it does notfollow that Evey's theorem is wrong.
Of course, itwould be of interest to analyze the relationships be-tween Evey's system of notions and that of Ginsburg,es well as to give an explicit account of the eventualbearing of Ginsburg and Rose's result with respect tothe theorems and proofs contained in Sgall et el.
ButMey does not undertake an~ such analysis in his paper;without giving any proofs he simply assumes that one ofthese results is c0ntradicted by the others.Thus we can state that Mey has not shown that asystem of the discussed type generates a language thatis not context-free, to say nothing about his clearlyexaggerated claim (P.7) of having 'shown" ths~ thelengusge generated by such a system "simply never" iscontext-free (cf.
the bottom of p.4, where Ginsburg andRose's formuletions are rendered in a rather c6nfusedw~y).Further, Mey is not right in claiming that a deviceof the discussed type is "practically equivalent" to(universel) Turing machine (P.5), or that its outputl~nzu~ge is not necessarily a recursive set(pp.4, 5, 9).
As shown in ~lha (1966), quoted in Sgali(1967), and as ststed again in Chapter 5, of Sgell etel., s recognition procedure for the system under con-sideration does exist (this is ensured by the preserva-tion of the 1,n~th of the strings).b-- 3 I(2~) The informal parts of Mey~ crit icism containfirst / of all hls question "what about the remaininginput, where does it all come from?"
(P.7); in casethat the output language of a device in our system (orthe terminal language of the grammar) i8  a proper sub-set of the input language of its successor in the sequen-ce of devices, the difference between these two languagesshould be taken as a formal counterpart pecific syntaxof a given level ( cf.
the distinction between ft ik  andblik, or that between or cqmed at home and golf pla2edJohn;cf.
Sections 2.1.4 and 2.2.5 in Sgall et el.
).We cannot discuss here st length questions of thiskind, es well as other items, which are,under the givenconditions, rather questions of taste.
Certainly, thesignificance of the eventual possibil ity (not claimedby us) to use the existing CF-recognition routines (May,P.5) or the significance of the results obtained byEuropean traditional and structural linguistics may beappreciated differently.
We do not take the "time-hono-red" European linguistic tradition as a linguistic argu-ment, but we do not want to give a mere preference toAmerican traditional high-school gra~,ar over the Euro-pean one.
We would like only to recall that in the de-velopment of the transformational theory there are vari-ous points showing that a more careful attitude to the"classical" linguistics could have saved some detours;so one would have been able e.g.
to see earlier the ne-- 4 -cess i ty  to distinguish between a deep (or semantic)3tructure and a surface one (and not to provide thetransfor~:~ational component with recursive propertles)~Ys it not clear that the transformational descriptiondoes lose, successively, at least some of the propertiesdistingulsling it from a description of the stratifica-~ional or functional type?Reference:R.J.Evey (1963), The Theory and Application of PushdownStore Machines, Mathematical Linguistics andAutomatic Translation, Rep. No.
NSF-10,HarvardComput.Lsb., Cambridge, Mass.S.Ginsburg (1966), The Mathematical Theory of Context-Free Grammars, New YorkS.Ginsburg & G.Rose (1966), "Preservation of Languagesby Transducers", Inf.Contr.9, 153~176.S.Ginsburg & G.Rose (1968), " A Note on Preservation OrLanguages by Transducers", Inf.contr.12,549-552.J.~\[.Mey (1969), On the Preservation of Context-FreeLanguages in a Level-Based System, Int.Conf.on Comp.Ling., SwedenA .~ha (1966), On the Recognition Procedure for PushdownStore Transduoers, The Prague Bulletin ofMathematical Linguistics 5, Pp.3-15 ~ 'P.S~ell (1967), Generativn~ popis jazyk~ a ~esk~ deklina-- 5 -ce  ( A Generative Description of Language andthe Czech Declension), PrahaP.Sgall et al (1969), A Functional Approach to Syntaxin a Generative Description of Language,New York
