AbstractAN APPLICATION OP COMPUTER TECHNIQUES TO ANALYSISOF THE VERB PHRASE IN HINDI AND ENGLISH:A Preliminary ReportDr, LoM, Khubohandanl and WoW.
GloverAuthors worked on the Project at ~oona, India withthe facilities of the computer CDC 3600-160A installedat the Tats Institute for Fundamental Research, Bombay.The Project uses two sets of data: a corpus of verbalphrases drawl1 from a modern Hindi play and a oomplet@para-digm of Engl isksentences generate6 from the kernel"heeats i%".
The computer was programmed to group intoclasses the words occurring in identical contexts, andsubstitute in the data corpus for these words a referenceto the class where they have been put.
The classificationand substitution thus produced suggested phrase patterns,with the filler class for each tagmeme defined as the classrepresented in the particular slot of the pattern.The results obtained with a criterion for classifica-tion of "identical context one-deep on both sides" werequite satisfactory.
In Hindi 25 classes were formed fromthe corpus of 65 phrases.
Atleast one word was classifiedin each 37 (62%) of the phrases and all words were classi-fied in 3 phrases (15%).
\ With an increased sample of simi-lar data these percentages would be expected to increase.In English 24 patterns were obtained and 15 classes wereformed from the full paradigm of ll2 sentences.However, as so~ of the classes contained grammaticallydissimilar members, the criterion was altered to "identicalcontext two-deep on both sides".
The results with thiscriterion appear less promising in Hindi.
The data samplewas extended to 248 phrases of three words or more.
Themachine discovered 223 patterns and 13 classes, and in only29 patterns (13%) one word was replaced b~ a class refer-ence.
This criterion, however, enjoyed some success inanalysing the English paradigm which is, of course, highlyrestricted data.
With the full paradigm, the machine dis-covered 30 patterns and 19 classes.
18 of them are quitehomogeneous in membership and the sentences generatedbythe patterns usir~ these classes are all legitimate.wou{~__ is felt a useful basis for further investigationbe to refine the broad classes formed with a "one-deep" criterion in a subsequent run through the samm ornew data ,19
