Project DOCDictionary On Computer, hereafter DOC, is part of an overall effortto harness an on-line computer for phonological research.
For certainproblems the linguist finds it necessary to organize large amounts ofdata or to perform rather involved logical tasks -- such as checking outa body of rules with intricate ordering relations.
In these situationsa computer is invaluable, for it forces the linguist to analyze his problemswith greater precision and it executes certain Jobs with a speed andaccuracy not otherwise possible.The overt aim of DOC is the reconstruction of the phonologicalhistories of the major Chinese dialects.
~ a deeper level, our interest isto learn more about how phonological structures change in general andabout the relation between these changes and the synchronic systems theylead to.
The achievement of this understanding is crucial for the formu-lation of a general theory of linguistic change.Of the many language families in the world, Chinese offers an ideallaboratory within which to study phonological change, due both to itsunrivaled wealth of materials and to its distinctive phonology andorthography.
Thus it affords both the time depth of philological docu-mentation and the spatial wealth o fa l l  the dialects.
Since modernlinguistics was born in the hands of the Indo-Europeanists during thelast century, our conception of how language changes and how it patternshas been excessively dominated by Indo-EurOpean studies.
Analyzing alanguage family with a very different structure car, help us balancethis skewed perspective.The challenge of ~onet ic  explanations, however, can only bemet when a sufficient fund of information is available, enabling phonologyto make the exciting transition from a descriptive effort into anexplanatory science.
DOC is designed to facilitate the gathering ofthis fund of information.
In this paper, I will describe the actualorganization of the DOC data and the methodology involved in applying it.William S-Y.
WangDepartment of L ingu is t i csUniversity of Ca l i fo rn ia ,  BerkeleyBerkeley, Cal i fornia 94720
