DISCOURSE REFEREFTSLauri KarttunenUniversl=y of Texas at Aust inDepartment of LinguisticsAustin, Texas 78712Consider  an interoretive device that in some manner keeps trackof indiv iduals  that have been mentioned iu a discourse and what hasbeen said about them.
One feature any such device must have is to heable to recognize wPen a novel individual aopears in so~e sentence.For examole, in Drocessin~ sentence (1), it N~st recognize that theNP a car refers to some yet unmentioned object, which in the fol lowingsentence may be referred to a~ain by any of tke alternative waysin (2).
(a) It is black.
(1) I have a car.
(2)(b) .The car is black.However, the same noun phrase does not refer to any car in (3)oConsequently,  none of the al ternat ives in (4) is acceptable as acont inuat ion of (3).
(a) * I t  is black.
(3) I don't have a car.
(I~) u(b) *The car is black.The above examples show that sometimes the occurrence of anindef inite NP in the discourse establ ishes a 'discourse referent'- somethin~ that may'be referred back to by a pronoun or a definitenoun phrase - and sometimes it does not.
There are of course manyother factors involved besldes negation.
For example, (5) is ambiguousbetween two interpretat ions and only in one sense would it be accept-able to continue the discourse with (6).
(5) Mary wants to marry a Swede.
(6) H_ee is tall.Several  l inguists (e.g.
LeRcy Baker, Janet Dean) have recentlystudied these constraints on coreferentlal l ty.
They have general lyinvest igated the problem in the framework of Noam Chomsky's Aspectsof the Theory of S.?ntax.
It has been assumed that noun phrases areassoc iated with ' re~rent ia l  indices' and marked with respect to thefeature \ [~sDec i f l c \ ] ,~hat  is relevant especial ly in the case of (5).In this paper I wi l l  argue that Chomsky's indices and the notionof soec i f ic i ty  are not adequate for han~l lng the problem of discoursereferents and that we must adopt the more abstract analysis of nounphrases f i rst  put forth by Emmon Bach and James D. NcCawley.
That is,noun phrases must be considered as having an under ly ing variable whichis bound by a quant i f ier  s imi lar  to those in ordinary ~redlcatecalculus.
In this framework, it is a re lat ively sinple matter todescr ibe the c ircumstances under  which an indefinite NF establ ishesa d iscourse referent.
- This happens in case the sentence bound bythe ~uant l f ler  is asserted or presupposed to be true by the speaker.~owever, there are some special  cases that have to be recognized.These involve at least the following: (1) counterfactual  condit ional,(ii) modals,  and (iii) quant i f ler - l ike adverbs, such as always,often, etc.
