AUTOMATED PROCESSING OF MEDICAL ENGLISHInt ro duct ionThe present interest of the scientific community in automatedlanguage processing has been awakened by the enormous capabilities ofthe high speed digltal computer.
It was recognized that the com-puter which has the capacity to handle symbols effectively can alsotreat words as symbols and language as a string of symbols.Automated language processing as exemplified by currentresearch, had its origin in machine translation.
The first attemptto use the computer for automatic language processing took place in1954.
It is known as the "IBM-Georgetown Experiment" in machinetranslation from Russian into English.
(I ,2)The experiment revealed the following facts:a. the digital computer can be used for automated language pro-cessing 2 butb.
much deeper knowledge about the structure and semantics oflanguage will be required for the determination and semanticinterpretation of sentence structure.The field of automated language processing is quite broad; itincludes machine translation, automatic information retrieval (ifbased on language data), production of computer generated abstracts,indexes and catalogs, development of artificial languages, questionanswering systems, automatic speech analysis and synthesis, andothers.Approaches to automatic information retrieval, quantitativestudies of generic relations between languages and style analysis~have been based to a great extent on statistical considerations~ suchas frequency counts of linguistic units (phomemes, morphemes~ words,fixed phrases).
In each of these approaches linguistic analysis wasconsidered to be a useful but insufficient method for automatedinformation processing because of the many unresolved problems inlanguage analysis.Implementation of statistical techniques for automated indexing,classification and abstracting has proved useful despite certainlimitations caused by our lack of knowledge of language.Some of the major problems in language processing are:a.
There is no method for Storing in a computer the speaker'sknowledge of the universe.b.
Syntactic and semantic ambiguities pose severe difficultiesfor implementation.c.
Difficulties associated with the design of a general purposeformal semantic language (intermediate language) into whichan input natural language could be mapped by an algorithm.d.
Recognition and interpretation of logical inferences whichare contained implicitly in natural language.e.
Lack of computer-oriented dictionaries and microglossaries.In recent years mathematically oriented studies'of the natureof natural languages have been directed to the development of formalmodels of grammars, such as context free r context sensitive andtransformational grammars.
Formal characteristics of these models ofgrammars, their generative power, and their adequacies and inadequa-cies may be found in the literature (3, 4, 5, 6, 7).Several noted scientists, such as Bar-Hillel (8), have expresseda pessimistic view in regard to practical implementation of machinetranslation.Nevertheless, there is merit in continuing efforts for morefundamental research in the area of formal and applied linguisticsand computer applications.
Even if we are not able to resolve allthe problems in language processing at once, limited goals can beattained and tested for validity by design of a model for languageprocessing within a restricted language domain, such as medicine.Some Characteristics of Medical EnglishAware of the many problems associated with automated processingof natural language, we have limited our efforts, for the present, tothe language domain used in pathology diagnoses, a subset of MedicalEnglish.Medical diagnosis may be described as the process used by thephysician to determine the nature of disease, or as the art of dis-tinguishing one disease from another.
The name which is assigned toa disease ~pl ies the unique configuration of signs and symptomsbelieved to be characteristic of the condition which has been diag-nosed.
The diagnosis can be regarded as a summary of the more com-plete medleal document in a conventionalized medical style.Medical diagnoses are characteristically free of verb phrases.The copulative verb "to be" is frequently implied by the use ofcomma.
Often~ the pseudosentence structures appear to be grammati-cally illogical.
Nevertheless~ these structures carry semantic mean-ing and are generally understood by others in medicine.
Modifiersfrequently occur in discontinuous sequence with the nouns they modify.Anaphoric expressions are eo~auonplace.The terminology consists of a mixture of Latin~ Greek and Eng-lish derivatives.
Not uncommonly~ diagnostic statements exhibitfeatures of all three languages.
Evidence of heterogeneous linguis-tic origin is also found in single word forms.
The language is richin the use of compound word forms which are segmentable into singleconstituents.The distinctive semantic features of diagnostic statements maybe categorized as follows:?
anatomic site affeeted~ or body system involved inthe disease process;?
disease condition, including structural changes rangingfrom gross observations to intracellular ultrastructuralchanges;?
causative agent of the abnormality;?
disease manifestations~ including physiological andchemical changes~ observable manifestations, andsymptoms reported by the patient;?
therapeutic agents or processes used;?
causal relationships among disease entities;?
method or souree of diagnosis.Two or more of these distinctive semantic features may be com-bined.in a single conceptual unit, e.g., "measles" implies both thespecific infectious disease manifested, and the etiology, the rubeolavirus; while "pneumonia" describes the inflammatory disease processor condition, as well as the anatomic site affected,, lung.On the other hand, the precise designation of the loeation atwhich a disease entity has manifested itself may require a complexstatement for adequate description of the semantics relative to ana-tomic site affected, e.g., a lesion may be found in the "apicoposte-riot segment in the upper division of the upper lobe of the lung.
"After mentioning some of the pecularities of Medical English wewill turn to the description of the system for automated processingof Medical English which is now under development at the Division ofComputer Research and Teehnology, National Institutes of Health.
(9,I0, II, 122 13)Systematized Nomenclature of PathologyIn any type of automated language processing at least two basiccomponents are required:a. Lexiconb.
GrammarExperience in machine translation revealed that commercial dic-tionaries consisting mostly of word lists are not suitable for auto-mated language processing.
Their main disadvantages are that theyare out-of-date, incomplete and inaccurate for the purpose of mor-phological~ syntactic and semantic analysis.In our work we have been using as a lexicon base the System-atized Nomenclature of Pathology (SNOP) (14), the structure of whichis described below:SNOP is a special purpose lexicon created by pathologists toassist them in the organization and retrieval of information.
TheSNOP language consists of a relatively rich word vocabulary and aprimitive grammar.A term or conceptual unit is listed in only one of the foursemantic categories of the vocabulary and is assigned a unique numer-ical code within the given information class.The four semantic categories of the SNOP are:Topography (T) - the body site affectedMorphology (M) - the structural changes resulting fromdiseaseEtiology (E) - the causative agents (micro-organisms,drugs and chemicals)Function (F) - the physiological manifestations associ-ated with disease, including symptoms anda limited number of specific infectiousdiseases.The conceptual units in each category are information contentwords which are used by the pathologist to convey in a condensedform the concept being described.
The basic syntactic structures ofthe dictionary entries are: single nouns, adjective phrases, attri-butive noun phrases and participial phrases.The code of dictionary entries is divided into four separateand independent fields T, M, E, F. Within a given field, terms areassigned a four digit number.
The first digit refers to the sectionof the field, while the other three digits indicate progressivelyfiner subdivisions.
These groupings reflect natural relations amongthe terms insofar as possible.
The code structure permits selectionof more specific terms by moving down the list and of more genericterms by moving up the list (see Appendix I).Semantic linkage pointers are also incorporated in the diction-ary which enable the cross-referencing of information within the sameor another category.We intend to extend the semantic codes and also to allow theinsertion of additional semantic information.
The individual codeswill be linked together to represent the content of the messages andmessages will be linked to represent the content of a diagnosis orother relevant medical document.GrammarAutomated processing of Medical English (APME) consists of aseries of computer programs which given as input a body of medicaltext, will produce as output~ a linguistic description and semanticinterpretation of the given utterance.In the initial stage of our research, our attention was focusedon patholoEy diagnoses since this domain of discourse intersects withall other medical specialty areas.
Consequently, research work inthis area should be applicable to other medical specialties.The APME parsin E algorithms consist of series of interrelatedlinguistic and programming operations which are described briefly asfollows :Morphological Analysis embodies the identification and transfor-mation of terminal morphemes and recognition of a limited set of pre-fixes.
The input to the morphological analysis and subsequent mor-phosyntactic transformations is the unedited Medical English of apathologist.
The transformation procedure consists of a set of rulesby which the adjective forming suffixes are substituted by a set ofnominalizing suffixes (adjective to noun transforms) or plural nominalsuffixes are substituted by their singular allomorphs (plural tosingular noun transforms) and, finally~ transforms of nouns to theirsynonymous or near-synonymous forms (i.e., DIS~TERY--~DISENTERIA).
(12)The main reason for the transformation of terminal morphemes isto provide a means for the successful retrieval of word forms whichoccur in the text in a derivative form but are listed in the SNOP die-tionary in an alternative form.We have been preparing rules for morphosemantie segmentation ofcomposite word forms which aremainly derived from Greek or Latin.The decomposition implies the recognition of constitutents, the orderof constituents, how they are intertwined and the assignment ofsemantic value to productive components.For example, the composite 'BRONCHITIS' is segmented into twocomponents CI-T and C2-M, namely:a. Terminal morpheme-ITIS (C2-M) which is the semantic markerof inflammation process (semantic category 'M'), andb.
The stem morpheme BRONCH(US) (CI-T)~ the site of the bodywhere the inflammation process occurs (semantic category'T').
The semantic structure of the class of word formssuch as 'BRONCHITIS' is expressed asW (T, M) -+ (CI -T) + (C2-M)where the order of semantic components CI-T and C2-M isfixed and cannot be reversed.It is expected that the analysis of the semantic structure ofcomponents into their semantic constituents and the formalization ofthe structural and semantic relationships among them will be usefulfor the preparation of computer-oriented medical micro-glossaries.S~ntactic and Semantic AnalysisSyntactic and semantic analysis of medical text involves thedetermination of sentence structure and its semantic interpretation.This problem can be resolved by the implementation of trans-formational rules by which different types of noun Phraseswill be transformed into a set of semantically equivalentphrases.
For example:NP-~ N 1 + N 2 (muscle atrophy)--~ N 2 + OF + N 1 (atrophy ofmusc le )~ N 2 + COMMA + N 1 (atrophy, muscle) ~ (N2--> A) ?N 1 (atrophic musc le )~ (NI--> A) + N 2 (muscular atrophy).Two tree diagrams are required for the representation of cumu-lative derivations in an abbreviated form.NPN / ~ N  (muscle atrophy)(A ---+N) N (muscular atrophy)(A --~ N) of Nco lm~a2.
(atrophic muscle)(atrophy of muscle)(atrophy, muscle)The problem of paraphrasing is closely related with auto-matic recognition of synonymous or nearly-synonymous expres-sions which are not found in the lexicon.
Even if we wouldbe able to assign an approximative value to so-called "unknow~terms" by the implementation of deductive rules, the physi-cian o~ the expert in the related field will have to make thedecision about the synonymity of the term in question.123.4.In both cases it is assumed that the semantic content ofthe message is understood.
Otherwise, if the transforma-tional rules were based only on the formal structure ofnoun phrases they could generate phrases which are not com-patible with the semantic content of the message.
Conse-quently, the transformational or paraphrasing rules shouldnot be based only on syntactic features but also on semanticfeatures of components of the given semantic unit~ i.e., onthe deep structure of the message.The boundaries of the semantic unit do not correspond,necessarily, to the boundaries of the noun phrase.
Forthis reason, we prefer the term "kernel phrase" instead ofnoun phrase.
However, it seems reasonable to identify firstthe semantic correlations within the frame of the syntacticconstruction (noun phrase, adjectival phrase, verb phrase,etc. )
.The noun phrase structure grammar comprises - among others -the analysis and synthesis of adjectival phrases and attri-butive noun phrases.The adjectives were classified in terms of their semanticcompatibility with semantic classes of head nouns.
The fol-lowing properties of adjectives and nouns were considered:Ad j act ives : ta.
Feature of transformabillty (A-# N; A + ed--) N; A + ing.-)N)b. Semantic class membership (Topography, Morphology,Etiology, Function, General)c. Admissible semantic correlations with semantic classesof head nouns NPx --> Ax + Nx where (x) denotes the typecorrel at ion.Noun._.._.~s:a.
Feature of transformabillty (N-->N; N-+A) ;b. Semantic class membership (T,M,E,F,G as above)For example:ACUTE STAPHYLOCOCCAL PNEUMDNIAA-TR/G/M + A-TR/E/M + N-T'R/M-~(NP) M,E whereA-TR/G/M (acute) = Adjective (A), transformable(TR), 'General' (G), semantic correlation with N(M) ;A-TR/E/M = Adjective, transformable, semanticclass membership-'Etiology' (E), modifying N(M) ;N-TR/M = noun, non-transformable (TR), belonging tosemantic category 'Morphology' (M).
(NP)M,E = adjectival kernel phrase belonging to thesemantic category 'M' (morphology) and category 'E' (etiol-ogy).The semantics assigned to adjectivals reflect, to a greateror lesser extent~ the semantic and syntactic relations betweenthe adjectivals and the head nouns that they modify.
Ruleswere written for strings of adjectives which are preposed or14postposad to the head noun as immediate constituents or indiscontinuous sequence.
Analogous criteria were used to pre-pare rules for recognition of attributive noun phrases.
(13)Z. Harris suggested that it might be possible to establish, whathe calls, "classified relationships" between adjective and noun inadvance r i.e., to have dictionary pairing of words and their classi-fiers for a scientific language because the metaphorical usage ishighly restricted in scientific discourse.
It seems reasonable thatadjectival phrases or appositional noun phrases which are perceivedas single conceptual units should be listed and treated in the sameway as compounds.Any treatment of ~hglish adjectives shows that the attributionand predication is far from simple.
For instance, an adjective maymodify a noun whleh is not present explicitly.
An example is thephrase "parathyroid (gland) adenoma" meaning "parathyroid gland ade-home" where the adjective "parathyroid" is semantically related tothe absent noun "gland."
iThe complexity of the analysis of adjectival phrases becomesapparent in attempting to semantically classify adjectives.
Manyadjectives may be members of two or more classes~ i.e., the given Axycan modify either N x or Ny, e.g.~ general adjective 'ab~ormal' can becorrelated semantically with N T or N~ or N E or ~F' thus, yielding multiple readings.
Even further refinement of the classification ofadjectives will not completely solve the difficulty.16Semant icsIt was already mentioned before that our goal is the successfulmechanical recognition, interpretation and subsequent storage ofMedical English for meaningful and timely retrieval of medical datain accordance with the needs of the user.When the boundaries of kernel phrases are identified by theimplementation of syntactic and semantic algorithms the next step isthe establishment of semantic correlations among the major semanticunits of the utterance.
The semantics of kernel phrases are conveyedby a set of relational predicates.Relational predicate having a propositional function f(x) des-cribes the type of semantic relationship among the major kernelphrases as mentioned before.For example, the statement: "Pneumonia~ due to staphylococcus"can be formalized as\[(RI) (M,E) 1where R 1 is the causative relational predicate "due to," "pneumonia"is the kernel phrase belonging to the semantic category 'M' (morpho-logy) and "staphylococcus" being a member of the category 'E ~ (caus-ative agent).
The relational expression "due to" can be substitutedby other equivalent expressions such as "caused by" or "resultingfrom," since they designate a similar relationship between the samesemantic categories.
The notion of argument pair(M,~ is not limitedto single constituents as in the example above but it refers to kernelphrases in which the number of constituents is variable.
For example~the statement mentioned above can be expanded as follows: "Acute andsevere pneumonia caused by staphylococcus albus" where the left-boundphrase "acute and severe pneumonia" (M) and the right-bound phrase"staphylococcus albus" (E) are related by the relational predicate"caused by" (RI).
Consequently, the statement \[(R 1) (M,E)\] holds inboth cases.The classification of relational predicates RI, R2 - - R n willreveal different types of relations among the semantically markedkernel phrases belonging to the semantic categories T~M,E,F or per-haps to other categories which may result from further semantic anal-ysis.
The precision of relational predicate rules may be increasedby refinement of admissible co-occurrences of subclasses of the basicsemantic constituents of kernel noun phrases.For example, statement: \[(Rx) (M 12"*, T II**)\] is to beinterpreted that there is a certain relationship Rx (not defined here)between the subclass MI2** (fractures) and subclass T II** (bones)where ** implies any member of the respective subclass.The syntactic structure of relational predicates consists eitherof a single functional element~ such as the preposition 'in,' or com-pound expressions~ such as 'due to~' or it can be a punctuation marksuch as colm~a?The semantic rules can be regarded as the axioms of the systemand therefore theorems derived from these axioms will describe variousproperties of Medical English which can be tested for truth or falsityfor completeness, and for ambiguity.18The body Of theorems will constitute the grammar of a formalintermediate language having the semantic classes T, M, E, F andothers to be defined, as its vocabulary.The axioms of the system are based upon the distribution ofsemantically significant elements.
The key components consist ofoperators and their operands.
The operands~ linguistically relatedto noun phrases, are members of particular semantic categories, andthe operators are theorems describing the relationship among theoperands ?Relationships among syntactically connected parts of sentenceswill be tabulated and associated with the meaning of semantic cate-gories in the SNOP dictionary.
The relationship between syntactic~nd semantic units is expressed by a set of linguistic operators whichlave the function of relational predicates in the intermediate language.Conceptual analysis and preparation of algorithms for trans-lating restricted Medical English into well-formed expressions willequire definition of the functional form of relational predicates in:he intermediate language and their syntactic features as linguistic)perators in natural language.We assume that heuristic-type rules for automatic problem-solving~ill be expanded beyond the present logical framework and combined~ith linguistic techniques for automatic processing of natural lan-l.Tuage.
This will lead to the development of a more powerful theory of)roblem-solving, in general (15, 16).ConclusionsThe development of a methodology for machine encoding of diag-nostic statements into a file, and the capability to retrieve informa-tion meaningfully from data file with a high degree of accuracy andcompleteness is the first phase towards the objective of processinggeneral medical text.The results of morphological, syntactic and semantic analysisare translated via computer programs into the existing intermediatelanguage which comprises four information fields: Topography, Mor-phology, Etiology~ and Function, as they are listed in the SNOP die-tionary.
Once the units are identified and mapped into the inter-mediate language, they could be replaced interlingually by equiva-lent units of another syntactic and semantic system.
The replacementcould be implemented mechanically through the selection of the equiv-alent syntactic structure, in our case, SNOP noun phrases in theirintermediate language form.The most amazing aspect of language is the fact that despite itsenormous complexity human beings are able to use it with success as acommunication tool.
If we are ever able to discover and describe theprocess of human thought, we will be closer to the resolution of manyproblems associated with the formalization and subsequent automatiza-tion of natural language.
It is not our intention to tackle all theproblems inherent in natural language.
We believe that we will beable to refine our algorithms and further develop a system which willprocess medical text by applying the formalized linguistic analyticprocedures for the storage of data in such a way that the users'cequirements can be met.q-Ol6lT TOPOGRAPHY-NUMERICAL (contlnuad)SECTION 2: RESPIRATORY TRACT20-RESP IRATORY TRACT i2000 Resp i ratory  t rac t ,  NOS201-Upper  Resp i ra tory  T ract2010 Upper resp i ra tory  t rac t ,  NOSNose, accessory  s inus and2020nasopharynx combined s i tes  .21382139.202 -Lower Resp i ra tory  TractLower resp i ra tory  t rac t ,  NOSLarynx, t rachea,  bronchi andlungs combined s i tes  220021 - NOSEZlO0 Nose, NOS2101 Mucous membrane of  nose2102 Respiratory region of nose2102 Olfactory region of nose2104 Nasal gland2100 Ol factory  gland2100 Cavernous plexus of nose2107 Lamina propr la  of  nose2100 Nasal meatl211-Externa l  Nose2110 Externa l  nosez111 Roof 'o f  noseI 2112 Dorsum of nose2113 Apex of nose2114 Ala nasl2115 Nasal septum, mobile portion212 -Nasa l  Car t i lage2120 Nasal car t i l age2121 Greater  a la r  car t i l age2122 Latera l  nasal  car t i l age2123 Nasal septa l  car t i l age2124 Lesser a la r  car t i l age2125 Vomeronasal car t i l age213,214  - In terna l  None2130 In terna l  nose2131 Nares2132 Nasal ves t ibu le2133 Nasal fossae2134 Nasal septum, NOS2135 Cboanae2136 Nasal tu rb inate ,  NOS2137 In fer io r  nasal  tu rb lnateMiddle nasal  tu rb lnateSuper ior  nasal  tn rb lnate22012202220322102211221228132214221522202221222222232224222522302231| |2 |22  - ACCESSORY SINUSAccessory s inus,  NOSParanasal  s inusAccessory nasal  s inusMucous membrane of accessorys inusAccessory s inus  glandLamina propr ia  of accessorys inus221 -Max i l l a ry  S inusMaxi l lary s inus ,  NOSMaXillary antrum ,Bight max i l la ry  s inusLeft  maxi l la ry  s inusMucous membrane of  max i l la rys inusMaxi l lary s inus  glandLamina propr ia  of max i l la rySinus222-Fronta l  S inusFronta l  s inus ,  NOSBight f ronta l  s inusLeft  , f rontal  s inusMucous membrane of f ronta l  s inusFronta l  s inus glandLamina propr la  of f ronta l  s inus223-Ethmoid  S inusEthmold s inus ,  NOSEthmold antrumRight ethmoid s inusLef t  ethmoid s inusReferencesI.2.3.DOSTERT, L.E.
: Machine Translation and Automatic Language Pro-cessing: Vistas in Information Handling; Spartan Books; Washing-ton 1963GARVlN, P.L.
: The Georgetown - IBM Experiment of 1954: AnEvaluation in Retrospect: Papers in Linguistics in Honor ofLeon Dostert; Ed.
by W. M. Austin; Mouton Co.; The Hague, 1967SEDELOW, S.Y., SEDELOW, W.A.
JR.: Stylistic Analysis; Auto-mated Language Processing; John Wiley and Sons~ Inc.; New York19674.
CHO~KY, N.: Aspects of The Theory of S~ntax; MIT Press;Cambridge, Mass.~ 19655.
Automatic Language Processing Advisory Committee, LANGUAGE andMACHINES - COMPUTERS IN TRANSLATION AND LINGUISTICS : National6.7.8.9.I0.II.Academy of Sciences, Washington 1966BOBROW~ D.G.
: S~n~tactic Theory in Computer Implementations;Automated Language Processing; John Wiley and Sons, Inc.;New York 1967Seminar on Computational Linguistics; Edited by A. W. Pratt,A.
H. Roberts and K. Lewis; U.S. Department of Healthy Educationand Welfare; National Institutes of Health; Public Health Service;Publication No.
1716; U.S. Printing Office 1967BAR-HILLEL, Y.: Language and Information; Addison-Wesl~y, Read-ing~ Massachusetts 1964PRATT, A.W., THOMAS, L.B.
: An Information Processing System forPathology Data; Pathology Annual-66; Appleton-Cen%ury-CroftsPublishers; 1967DUNHAM, G.: Pathology Diagnoses Language Encoder; Division ofComputer Research and Technology; National Institutes of Health;Internal Report.EPSTEIN, M.: A STstem for Pathology Data Processing; Divisionof Computer Research and Technology; National Institutes of Health;Bethesda, Maryland 196912.13.14.15.16.PRATT, A.W., PACAK, M.: Identification and Transformation ofTerminalFbrphemesin Medical English; Methods of Information inMedicine; Vol.
8; No.
2, April 1969; F. K. Schatauer Verlag,Stuttgart, New YorkPACAK, M., DEFRANCESCO, H: Adjectival Phrases in Medical~ ;  Division of Computer Research and Technology;National Institutes of Health; Bethesda, Maryland; in pre-paration.Systematized Nomenclature of Pathology; College of AmericanPathologists, Chicago~ Illinois 1965GARVIN, P.L.
: The., Place of Heuristics in the Fulcrum Ap.
p,,.roach,to Machine Translation; Lingua, Vol.
21; North-Holland Publish-ing Company; Holland, 1968SLAGLE, J.R. : E~eriments with a Deductive Question-Answerin ~~ ;  Comm.
ACM 8, 12, 1965
