: ?\I~I~RODUCTIONThe problem of explicating the meaning of natural language discourseand how this meaning is obtained has been of central importanceto the study of philosophy since the time of Aristotle.
Thisproblem has continued to perplex philosophers, linguists,psychologists, and other academicians right up to this very day,such perplexity manifesting itself in disputes such as nominalismvs.
realism, behaviorism vs. mentalism, logical positivism vs.the "ordinary-language" approach, and structuralism vs. trans-formationalism.
Basic to this perplexity has been the lack of anadequate set of tools with which to formalize meaning in naturallanguage, resulting in a basic split between those who use exist-ing tools to produce formalizations that are oversimplified andinadequate and those who attempt to account for the fullcomplexity of natural language but, in doing so, abandon anyattempt at formalization.
Clearly, any move toward providing amore powerful set of tools with which to formalize the semanticsof natural languages will have implications that will reverberatethrough a variety of academic disciplines.A formalization of natural language semantics that is keyed tothe computer will have a variety of very practical applicationsas well.
Two decades of research in machine translation havefailed to produce effective systems, chiefly because machines havenot yet been able to duplicate the translator's function ofunderstanding the material in the source language and then re-stating it in the target language.
Once computers are capableof analyzing natural language to a depth where it becomespossible to mechanically determine equivalence of meaning incontext of statements in two different languages, and capable ofgenerating well-formed natural-language discourse from such ananalysis, mechanical translation of scientific and other expository2text will be straightforward.
Information storage and retrievalwill also be much simpler once it is possible to store andretrieve information by means of statements, questions, andc~mmands in natural language--which requires, at least, that thesenatural-language inputs be interpretable as commands to thestorage and retrieval mechanism.
Computer-assisted instructionwill not realize its full potential until student answers canbe evaluated with respect to their meaningful content and thisevaluation used to generate appropriate remedial instructionform a body of lesson information.
And most importantly, acapabi l i ty for meaningful analysis and generation of naturallanguage will make computers accessible to people for an infinitevariety of problem-solving applications in the way which is bestSuited to  them as human beings.The thesis of this paper is that, as a result of recent advancesof the state of the art in linguistics, computation, and theirinterface, we are on the verge of being able to formalize thesemantics of natural languages for the computer in a mannerthat will be philosophically interesting, linguistically andpsychologically revealing, and computationally useful in themanners just suggested.
Such a formalization, it shall be arguedhere, may be based on the notion that natural language isbasically explicable as a method of programming a particularkind of computer--a computer with a relational associativememory structure that is purposive and goal-directed in itsactions, in the manner of a human being.T~ PROBLEMA.
Requirements for a Semantic Theory1.
A Definition of SemanticsThe term semantics is generally used to denote the system ofrelations between the expressions of a language and their mean-ings--in contrast to synts~x, which describes the acceptablestructural forms of linguistic expression, and pragmatics, whichconcerns itself with the effects of communications in a languageupon the communicants.
The term "meaning" here is to be analyzedin terms of its particular relevance to the act of communication.An act of communication includes a sender who encodes a messageinto a signal (usually a string of phonetic or alphanumericsymbols), a channel along which the signal is sent, and a receiverwho decodes the signal into the original message and interpretsthe message.
Meaning is the functional import of the message,which calls forth a re sponse--cognitive~ affective, and/orconative--from the receiver in the partfcular communicationsituation; it is a relation of the message to the receiver.
Letus now make the simplifying assumption that this meaning isdetermined by the functional form of the message under some"standard" functional interpretation (this is basically anoversimplification, since the rules of functional interpretation,especially on the affective response dimension, will vary fromreceiver to receiver and even for the same receiver over time);we may then define semantics as the explication o f  the relation-ship between the surface forms of linguistic utterances (asspatial or temporal arrangements of morphological units, whichare the minimal linguistic units that have a direct functionalrelationship to the determination of meaning) and the functionalforms of the messages they express.
For a semantics to beformalized, this relationship must be sufficiently well definedto enable the processes of encoding and decoding to at leastbe formally explicable in terms of it, if not totally formal-ized within it.2.
The Semantics of Formalized LanguagesThe most successful attempts to formalize semantics have beenfor the formalized languages of the  deductive sciences.
Tarski,in his classic paper \[43\]3 has set down a systematic methodfor formalizing the semantics of a formalized language, whichis any language for which the set of meaningful sentences isdefined by a formal syntactic grammar, all sentences areunambiguous, and there is a set of (syntactically defined)axioms and rules of inference from which theorems in thelanguage may be derived.
The method involves construction of ametalan~uage containing expressions and axioms of a generallogical kind, translations of the expressions and axioms of thelanguage L to be characterized, and expressions and axiomswhich define the syntax of L. The notions of satisfaction andtruth for the language L, which together constitute a semanticdescription of L, can be defined in the metalanguage M as follows:Given a domain D of individuals, a "semantic interpretationfunction" ~ is defined in M which assigns to each individualconstant and individual variable of L an individual of the domainR, to each function letter of L of degree n m 1 a function fromD n (the set of all ordered n-tuples of elements of D ) intoD, toeach predicate letter of L of degree n ~ 1 an n-ary relation onD (defined as a subset of Dn), and to each phrase-forming ruleof L a function Ti, which determines the semantic interpretationof the phrase formed in terms of the semantic interpretations ofthe constituent phrases.
An n-tuple (al,...,an> of individualconstants then satisfies the sentential function F of n freevariables whenever ?
(F) \[~5 (al),... ~ ~5 (an) \] = T (truth).
Thenotion of truth is defined as a special case of the notion ofsatisfaction for sentential functions of zero free variablesl(i.e., sentences of L).
Examples of the application of the Tarskiapproach are to be found in any standard logic textbook in thetruth-table interpretations (standard and non-standard) of thepropositional calculus and the standard set of semantical rulesfor the first-order predicate calculus.The Tarski approach runs into difficulty, however, in that itestablishes only a single notion of truth, without referenceto the different ways in which truth may be epistemologicallyestablished.
This becomes critical when it comes to establishingrules of substitutability for "oblique" or "nonextensional"contexts such as quotation, indirect discourse, modal sentences,and belief sentences, in which the unrestricted substitutivityof equivalence does not preserve truth-value--one must heredefine types of equivalence stronger than identity of reference,which is the type of semantic equivalence defined in the Tarskiapproach.
It was mainly to deal with this problem that Carnap\[9\] proposed a method of semantic analysis called "the methodof extension and intension."
In the framework of Tarski's formu-lation, the method can be stated as follows: Given a "model"of the language L, consisting of an individual domain D and asemantic interpretation function ~b for L over P,  the extensionof any well-formed expression E in L is defined as the set ofvalues for E of all semantic interpretation functions #' overP which differ from # at most on their assignments to thefree variables of E. Now if one considers the domain of possiblemodels for L, the intension of any well-formed expression E inL may be defined as that function over models of L which yieldsas its value for any model the extension of E in that model.The notion of intension may be formalized by considering themetalanguage translations of well-formed expressions of L to beintensional structures for these expressions, which, sinceintensions are funcZions, will take the form of function defini-tions.
The translations may be defined by a translation functione which assigns to each individual constant, function letter, andpredicate letter of L an appropriate function letter of themetalanguage M, to each variable of L a variable of M ranging overfunctions on models of L which map into the appropriate extensionalrange, and to each phrase-forming rule of L a function-definitionoperator ~i (which could be functional composition, c~nplement,union, intersection, iteration, transitive closure, summation,minimalization, etc.
).
Given this definition, one can recreateTarski's definition of satisfaction and truth by noting that forany model .
of L the corresponding semantic interpretationifunction ?i is given by ?i (E) = \[ e (E)\] (Mi).
And one can define,along with the ordinary notion of (extensional) equivalence,the notions of L-equivalence and intensional isomorphism asequivalence of intension and intensional structure respective-ly--and show, as Carnap does in \[9\], how these stronger types ofequivalence permit the establishment of suitable substitutabilitycriteria for "oblique" contexts.To fit the semantics of formalized languages into our generaldefinition of semantics, which presupposes use of the languagefor the purpose of communication, we must introduce one morething into the metalanguage, namely, the performative operatorsof asserting, questioning, and ccmmmading.
We posit that thelanguage L is being used to communicate between two informationand control systems A and B, both of which possess inccmpleteand/or changing models of L 2 corresponding to knowledge of someenvironmental situation over which both A and B can exercisei2~ote that the reference to disparate models of L (the onlysituation in which communication would ma/~e sense in thiscontext) and changing models of L necessitates the use, atleast ?mplicitly, of an intensional semantics.certain degrees of control.
Then for any sentence $ of Lj anassertion '$.'
from A to B carries the functional import ofinstructing B to modify its model so as to make S evaluate totruth, a ~uestion '$?'
from A to B instructs B to evaluate Sin its model and return the result to A, and a command 'S ''from A to B instructs B to modify its environment (if possibleand if necessary) so that S ~-lll evaluate to truth in the modelof the environment so changed.
The metalanguage translationsof the assertion, question, and command signs in L will be, ofcourse, the corresponding performative operators.
By identify-ing, now, the notion of message with metalanguage translation,the notion of arrangement of morphological units with syntacticdescription in the metalanguage, the notion of decoding withthe translation function e, and the notion of encoding with theinverse of ~, we show how the semantics of formalized languagesmeets our general requirements for a formalization of semantics.3- Natural Language SemanticsWe may now arrive at a set of specific requirements for a formaltheory of natural language semantics by examining the crucialdifferences that are kno~m to exist between natural languagesand formalized languages and noting the revisions and extensionsof the formalized-language paradigm that are required to takethese differences into account.
This approach is indicated bythe fact that the semantics of formalized languages representsthe most highly-developed point of departure frc~ which toundertake a formal description of the real-world phenomenon ofnatural language semantics, and thus, if it indeed contains thepotential of producing a description that fits the phenomenon,brings one much closer to that description than if one were tostart with only the general definition of semantics given atthe beginning of this section.
What, then, does this approachindicate for the features of a revised paradigm under which theknown properties of natural language as an instrument ofcommunication may be subsumed?Natural languages, first of all, are used for a vastly widervariety of communication acts than are formalized languages.
Themessages that are communicated in natural language relate tovirtually every area of human activity and extend to nearly everypurpose involving some kind of human interaction.
As a result,there is a large inventory of different types of messages thatare expressed in natural language, each in its own particularway or ways.
3 The three basic types of performative operators--assertion, questioning, and commanding--are subject to modifi-c~ ion  as to the manner of the request conveyed by the message(which indicates, among other things, the speaker' s perceivedor intended relation to the hearer 4) and to functional combination,as in the case of threatening and warning, both of which combinecommanding with asserting.
A formal theory of natural languagesemantics must explicate these dimensions of the performative andalso the relation of the performative to the notions of speaker,hearer, and context of utterance.The explication of the non-performative parts of messages asintensional definitions requires some extension and elaboration3Austin \[1\] has compiled what is perhaps the most extensive andsystematized inventory of these message types.4A very interesting discussion of this aspect of communication iscontained in Watzlawick et al\[46\].Iin order to be applicable to natural language.
First, peoplecarry in their memories not one model but many, correspondingto the many different situations that they have knowledge of.Thus, a message must refer either to a specific model, to aspecific range of models, or generically to all models in whichthe specified intensions have nonempty extensions.
Restrictingthe range of applicable models is accomplished in natural languagethrough presuppositions, which indicate prior conditions thatmust be satisfied in a model for a given message to be applicableto it.
Indicating generic vs. model-specific information, as wellas "given" (for locating the appropriate model) vs. "new" (foradding to the model) information in the model-specific case, isaccomplished through the subject-predicate division and throughan extensive assortment of quantifiers.
Furthermore, as Morris\[31, 32\] has pointed out, natural-language expressions not onlydesignate but also appraise and prescribe--thus, natural-languageintensions may take on as extensions not only objects, sets, andrelations, but also values and actions.
Natural-language inten-sions may also take on as extensions other intensions, thusgiving natural language a "recursiveness" of logical order and aself-referential capability (which leads, naturally, to theclassical logical paradoxes).Intensional definitions are also more complex in their formalstructure for natural languages than for formalized languages.Intensions may be defined by specifying the combination of testsand results that indicate which elements of any given modelare to be included in their extensions--these tests may be oneither "inherent" or "contextual" attributes of the element andthe values of these attributes may be either countable sets ormeasurements on some continuous scale.
For formalized languages,lOthe identification function of an intension must distinguishclearly and unequivocally between exemplars and non-exemplars onthe basis of a Boolean combination of the results fo the varioustests.
For natural languages, however, tests may be eithercriterial for identification of an exemplar or else have only aprobabilistic bearing on identification; thus, the identificationof exemplars of natural-language intensions is by no meansclear-cut, but rather may resemble the assignment of degreesof confirmation to hypotheses (with a certain "level of confidence"being required for identification to take place).
The use inEnglish of generic determiners such as 'many', 'most', 'almostall', and 'few', and (corresponding) intensional adverbs such as'co~only', 'usually', 'characteristically', and 'seldom', isindicative of the probabilistic nature of intensional definitionS?n natural l anguage.
5The morphological structure of natural languages is also consider-ably more complex than that of formalized languages, as has beenwell recognized by contemporary linguists.
The simple phrase-structure grammars that suffice to describe the syntax offormalized languages simply do not work for natural languages;to dascribe the surface syntactic structure of a natural languagerequires a system, such as a relational phrase-structuregrammar (Bellert, \[4\]) or a complex-feature-symbol grammar, withthe power of expressing the various relations of grammaticalagreement among constituents.
If the language to be analyzedis spoken language, the arrangements of morphological units are5A full analysis of these generic determiners and adverbs, theirlogical interrelationships, and their relation to notions ofprobability is given in Celce and Schwarcz \[131.
A capsulesumma~j of this analysis is presented later in this paper.llnot simply linear strings of symbols (connected by whatevergra~natical relations) but are, rather, two-dimensional sequencesconsisting of both segmental and suprasegmental (stress, intona-tion, etc. )
morphemes.
Furthermore, the exact correspondencebetween gra~aatical sentences and semantically-interpretablesentences that obtains in formalized languages does not hold fornatural languages, which permit of both "grammatical nonsense"and syntactically deviant utterances that make perfect sense--thefirst phenomenon requires a semantic theory to posit nonsyntacticconditions for semantic acceptability; the second, a procedurefor syntactic error correction in decoding.The above are only two of the phenomena that render explication ofthe process of encoding and decoding much more complex for naturallanguages than for formalized languages.
In formalized languagesall well-formed expressions are unambiguously interpretable in orout of context, their interpretations are determined in astraightforward compositional manner by function-definitionoperators in one-to-one correspondence With the syntacticformation rules of the language, and performatives are representedas single symbols preceding or following each sentence.
Fornatural language none of these properties hold--indeed, semanticambiguity and anomaly, discourse structure and other forms ofcontext dependence, syntactic-semantic non-correspondence, idiomsand figures of speech, and complex encodin~s of performativesare all common features of natural language.
Their explicationin a semantic theory requires, first, that the correspondencebetween syntactic form and semantic function be taken as many-to-many rather than as one-to-one; second, that intensional "well-formedness" relative to the particular domain of discourse andapplicability to the model or range of models currently under12consideration be taken as criteria for semantic acceptability ina discourse context; and third, that the theory specify the variousalternative encodings of a message rather than a single encod-ing.
There is also a need to incorporate analogical processesinto the explications of encoding and decoding in order to accountfor the metaphorical use of language.Finally, there are two inherent limitations that govern any attemptto formalize the semantics of natural languages: one formal,the other eplstemological.
The formal limitation is a conse-quence of Tarski's theorem \[43\], which states that any consistentand complete semantic theory of a language must be formulated ina metalaugua~e of higher order than the lsmguage being described.But since the set of theorems of any deductive system must berecursively enumerable, and since there are subsets of naturallanguages sufficiently powerful to define any recursively enumer-able set, any formalization of natural language semantics using adeductive logic (including the logic of computation) as a meta-language will be incomplete in the sense that there will bequestions about the language 6 that are theoretically unanswerablein the metalanguage (one could, however, go to inductive logicsand probabilistic metatheories as the basis for a metalanguage ).The epistemological limitation derives from the fact that, whileformalized languages are uniquely defined, no two speakers of anatural language have quite the same idea of what their languageis.
It is clearly impossible, then, to formulate a semantictheory that describes all the speakers of a natural language.6Including~ of course, any question as to the truth-value of asentence  xpress ing  a log ica l  paradox.I13Neither is it practicable to attempt an "ideal speaker-hearer"theory that purports to explain how native speakers of a language"generally" assign meanings to utterances and express meaningsthrough utterances 3 since validation of such a theory would be nextto impossible.
A more appropriate goal, especially in light ofthe fact that the data for any semantic theory must ultimatelyderive from the use of the language for communication, is toconstruct a theory of a "typical speaker-hearer" of the languagein question, whose validity would then derive from the ability ofa physical realization of the theory (e.g., as a program runningon a digital computer) to engage in successful purposive cCm~uni-7 cation with native speakers of the language.Let us enumerate, then, the requirements for a formal theory ofnatural language semantics that have been indicated here:1.
The theory shall be couched in a formal metalanguage.2.
The metalanguage shall contain models of possible discoursecontexts, expressions representing extensions, expressionsrepresenting intensions, and axioms defining the relation ofextension to intension for any given model.3.
The metalanguage shall contain expressions representing themessages ecmm~nicated in the natural language, which willcontain performatives specified as to type and manner,intensional definitions of both fixed and recursive logicalorder with criterial and/or noncriterial components on thedescriptive, appraisive, and prescriptive dimensions,presuppositions, and both generic and specific quantifiers.7Further reasons for preferring the "typical speaker-hearer" modelto the "ideal speaker-hearer" model are given in Schwarcz \[38\].144.
The metalanguage shall contain axioms characterizing thefunctional import of messages, sufficient to define bothextensional and intensional equivalence, entailment, andcontradiction among messages up to the limits of theoret-ical decidability.5.
The metalsm~uage shall contain expressions and axiomsdefining a "standard" syntax of the language at the levelof surface arrangements of morphological units, in termsof both phrase structure and relations of grammaticalagreement.6.
The metalanguage shall contain axioms defining the possibleencodings of any message in any discourse context to whichit is applicable.7.
The metalanguage shall contain axioms defining the possibledecodings of arrangements of morphological units that are~?ell-formed in the "standard" syntax or deviate from itby at most a tolerable degree and determining the inten-sional well-formedness and applicability to a given discoursecontext of these decodings.8.
The theory, to be validated as a description of a "typicalspeaker-hearer" of the language under consideration, mustsupport a physical embodiment that is capable of engagiD~successfully in purposive corm~unication with native speakersof the lar~uage.B.
Computational Avenues of Approach to a Semantic TheorySince language is an instrument of communication and communicationis essentially purposive, any semantic theory that one developsfor the computer will of necessity be based, unless one is simplyengaged in an academic exercise, on the purpose for which oneIwishes to communicate with the computer in natural language.
In15this section several such purposes and the sorts of semantic theorythey have led to or are likely to lead to will be described.The purpose of oldest vintage is, of course, translation bymachine from one langua?~ to another.
The problem here is,given a discourse in one language 3 to produce a discourse in asecond language that has the same functional import with respectto a model of the domain of discourse as the first.
Perhaps thereason that no efforts in this direction have achieved notablesuccess to date is that the model of the domain of discourse andits functional interaction with the language have generally beenignored in the design of translation systems.
The direction thatwill lead to a breakthrough here is that of developing domain-specifi___.____~e (rather thau langllage-specific) translation systems forwell-understood and formally structurable domains of discourse suchas physics and mathematics--once a fomnal model of the subjectmatter ~id a canonical procedural language for communicating withthat model are defined, efforts can be directed toward specifyingthe decodings of as much of the relevant natural-language subsetsas possible into the procedural language aud reasonable encodingsof the procedural langaago into each of the natural languages.Data management and infor,~ation retrieval is another purpose of-widespread interest.
The domains of discourse to which thesesystems may apply may be arbitrarily broad or narrow; whateverthe case, the requirements for formal structurability and aformal procedural language for storing and retrieving informationin the data base are present.
If the system is to do deductivequestion answering (or ~hat Travis \[~5\] has called "analyticinformation retrieval"), the system must be able to store andutilize the logical relationships among concepts and facts.
The16problem of specifying encodings and decodings here is simpler thanfor machine translation 3 since the user may make do with a fairlyrestricted natural-language subset for input, and natural-languageoutput may be generated in a canonical form if it is in factnecessary at all.
Thus it is possible here to get by with anoversimplified semantic theory, but for that very reason it canbe expected that more progress can be made sooner with this thanwith any other approach (and this has, in fact, turned out to bethe case).Another purpose is the use of natural language to interface ~r'?thpictorial information.
Here the model is a set of logical state-ments describing the visual image, derived by the application ofpattern-recognition operations to the visual image.
The model,once derived, can then be either directly encoded into a set ofnatural-language sentences or else used as a data base forinformation retrieval.
An alternative approach is to decodenatural-language retrieval statements into search procedures onthe visual image itself, performing the pattern-recognitionoperations, then, during the execution of these search procedures.If the visual image is what a robot sees in its environment, therobot may not or, Sy be asked about what it sees but also told tomove about in its environment and to move parts of the environ-ment about~ thus 3 the intensional structure of the robot'smessage language will  include a prescriptive as well as adescriptive dimension.
As in the case of data management andinformation retrieval systems, the input language can be restrictedand the output language can be minimal, thus obviating the needfor sophisticated fornmlations of decoding and encoding.17The use of the computer to develop models of human thoughtprocesses is a purpose that can lend revealing insights into thenature of a semantic theory.
Here one starts with hypothesesabout the structure of human memory and the informationprocesses that take place there, embeds these hypotheses in acomputer program, and runs the program to determine the conse-quences of these hypotheses in terms of predictions of observablebehavior.
In terms of a semantic theory, the emphasis here is?
likely to focus on models, messages, and the pragmatic functionsof messages on models; only limited attention is likely to bepaid to the syntactic structure of the language, and encodingand decoding are likely to be formulated in a rough-and-readyheuristic fashion rather than in a way motivated by linguisticconsiderations.
8 Nevertheless, such models are an excellentway to test the workability of semantic ideas, for the models'linguistic poverty is compensated for in experimentation bytheir designers' linguistic flexibility--and once the innardsare working right, they may serve as a basis for a morelinguistically sophisticated formulation of decoding and encoding.A purpose incorporating both analytic information retrievaland psychological modeling is computer-aided instruction withnatural language.
9 The capabilities required here are tosemantically analyze a student's natural-language response orquestion, to compare an analyzed response to a standard "correctresponse" to determine the logical difference if any, to generateremedial feedback in natural language by application of "tutorialdecision rules" to the structure representing this difference,8The one exception is models of linguistic performance, asdiscussed in Sehwarez \[38\]; there, of course, linguisticconsiderations are paramount from the beginning.9This approach to CAI is described in Bennik, Sehwarcz, andSilberman \[6\].18and to answer a student's analyzed question and generate a natural-la r~age reply.
For natural-language CAT all the components of asemantic theory, except perhaps for encoding, must be developedto their full extent with respect to the subject areas to betaught.
The linguistic requirements are not quite so severe asfor machine translation, since the capability of dynamic inter-action enables students to put up with a certain amount of rigidityon the machine's part and since the machine will not be requiredto analyze or generate long coherent discourses, but the require-ment of thorough and complete logical analysis is more demandinghere than in any other application of a semantic theory.Finally, there is the purpose of enabling people to program thecomputer in natural language.
Messages here are statements in ageneral-purpose progrsm~ning language which includes capabilitiesfor defining both macros and closed subroutines; they will thushave both descriptive and prescriptive dimensions.
Nouns, verbs,and adjectives will be decoded into either data items (if propernames, numbers, or truth values), primitive functions, macros,or closed subroutines, conjunctions and prepositions will decodeinto operators for combining program steps, adverbs will decodeinto designations of program sequencing, and quantifiers willdecode into specifications for iterative loops.
The decodingprocess will likely be some form of syntax-directed compiling,which exactly fits the decoding paradigm for formalized-languagesemantics, except in that the procedure may allow for a smalldegree of ambiguity.
Encoding will either be completelystandardized or else be defined in terms of a sublanguage of out-put specifications that may be associated in an arbitrarymanner with computational procedures.
All this assumes, however,that natural language is being used to program the computer in35for small western cities?'
produced a ten-item request 3 and thequestion 'For the smoggy high-income cities what is the age-income value-range?'
produced twenty separate procedural requests.Although most of Kellogg's e~perimentation has been performed ona data base of census information, his system has also beensuccessfully tier prostrated with airline-schedule and educationaldata bases.If Kellogg's system can be f~Atlted as a semantic theory~ otherthan in its lack of a nontrivial formulation of encoding, it isprincipally in its failure to deal with certain of the require-ments specific to the semantics of natural languages.
Chief inimportance among these are noneriterial attributes of intensions(except those quantified by 'some'), recursiveness of logicalorder, the appraisive dimension of language, discourse structurerecognition, disambiguation by discourse context, and deviationsfrom standard syntax.. 14 The logic of equivalence, entailment, andcontradiction among messages, particularly on the intensionalside, has also not been formalized to the extent that it could be.In all fairness, however, it must be pointed out that few if anyof the other current approaches to semantics have dealt withany of these requirements (except the last 3 for predicate-calculus-based systems) in a formally satisfying way.
Kellogg hassucceeded in putting together the best of current knowledge inlinguistics, fomal  semantics, and systems programming todevelop an eminently usable formalization of English semanticsfor the computer.Both the linguistic and the computational formalizations ofnatural language semantics, when looked at individually, canbe seen to fall considerably short of the requirements for ai Thish last item# as well as undefined words and zemanticanomalies, is handled by Kellogg through appropriate feed-back messages to the user.36semantic theory that is adequate for natural languages.
Whentaken collectively, however, they contribute an enormous reser-voir of ideas and experience upon which one may draw in under-taking the formulation of an adequate semantic theory.
Withthe addition of recent advances in linguistic theory, programminglanguages, and artificial intelligence to this reservoir, ~ maydraw from it the elements that will combine to make up anadequate approach.
Let us now look at one possible such approach.AN OFERI~IONAL-MEANING APPROACH TO SEMANTICSA.
Methodological BasisTo arrive at a formal theory of natural language semantics, wemust start from the set of requirements enumerated earlier--particularly those concerning the relation of a message to itsfunctional import.
Intensions are the principal components of?
messages, and they are classified according to their values alongthe descriptive, appraisive, and prescriptive dimensions.Prescriptive intensions have values which are actions of thecommunicating system, and therefore can be sensibly regardedonly as p ro~ for action.
Appraisive intensions havevalues which are evaluations of one kind or another; the onlysensible way to regard these, then, is as evaluation functions.Descriptive intensions have values which are objects, sets ofobjects, and relations among objects, where the objects may inturn be intensions.
Here we adopt the operationist philosophy,in the formulation of Benjsmin \[5\], and assert that descriptiveintensions are functional operations on a data space whichyield elements of knowledge as their result.37It is clear, then, that  the most natural representation ofintensions is as programs is some programming language.
Sinceintensions are functions on models, the operations thatconstitute them will be performed on structures that representmodels--and since intensions may be values of intensions, thestructure of programs must be of the same form as thestructures of models.
Furthermore, the progran~ning system whichinterprets the language must interpret it n0ndeterministically,for natural language may al~rays specify alternative definitionsof a concept, or alternative procedures for evaluation, oralternative ways to perform an action; with respect to thefirst, it is a fund~nental premise of modern operationism thatone can arrive at the same item of knowledge by means ofdifferent operational procedures, and that, in fact, theutility of a concept is largely as an expression of thegeneralization that a class of different operational proceduresproduce identical results.
15 Nondeterministic operation andthe existence of evaluation functions characterizes a class ofartificial-intelligence programs that have been written to dogame playing, theorem proving, and general problem solving 2all of which are based on the paradigm method of goal-directedheuristic search.
A programming system based on this method ofprogram operation, similar to the one that Pople \[34\] hasrecently implemented, would thus be indicated as the basis foran operational formalization of natural language semantics.Let us now turn to a sketch of how the semantics of naturallanguages might be formalized within such a system.15This view is expressed clearly in Bridgman \[8\].38B.
Models and MessagesThere are two basic issues to be decided in the formulation ofany model: what information is to be contained in the model,and in what form that information is to be represented.
Inthe formulation of a message language for conT.municating withthe model, it must furthermore be decided what computationalprocesses are to be performed in the model.
A semantic theorywill rise or fsll on the basis of the extent of information thatcan be represented in the model, the extent of informationprocessing that can be formulated in the message language, andthe ease with which translation algorithms can be formulatedbetween the message language and the corresponding naturallanguage subset.Because of its close similarity to both formal logic and theattribute-value list structures and relational associativestructures that have been employed in many artificial-intelli-gence programs, as well as its demonstrated advantages forlinguistic formulations, the Fillmore case structure appears tobe the most useful starting point for representing both modelsand messages.
Additional specifications must be added in torepresent the logical features which are lacking in Fillmore'sformulation: logical connectives, quantification and quanti-ficational ordering~ other function-definition operators, thestructure of the modality constituent, etc.
The inventory ofcase relations must also be completely specified and, sincecase relations are all contextual, supplemented with a set ofinherent relations that will enter into both extensional andintensional description--s~ne of which, like the "spatiallycontains' relation, will be converses of the case relationslthemselves.39The formal content of both intensional and extensional descriptionis still largely an open question, to which the various attemptsto formalize nattu~al language semantics can only suggest methodsfor solution.
At the lowest level of semantic description, theactions that an operational semantic model will be able to performwill be computer actions and not human actions, and the evaluationsthat it will be able to make will a//nost certainly be pragmaticevaluations rather than aesthetic evaluations (this iS not toassert, however, that no way will ever be found to program acomputer to simulate a human being's appreciation of poetry,art, or musi&).
It is the descriptive dimension that is mostinteresting, especially since both appraisive and prescriptiveintersions -~xe instances of second-order (or higher) descriptiveintersiors, with the consequence that the values and actions ofhumaa beings ma~, be described in an operational semantic frame-work, and perhaps as a consequence also modeled by analogythough not applied directly.
On the descriptive dimensionBenjamin \[5\] lists the following types of operations, which weshall characterize as intensions with corresponding extensions:l?2.Inters ionDiscriminatingAssociatinga.
Co-occurrenceb.
Temporal successionc.
ConfigurationalExtensionDeictic references (presentevents)Co-occurrence classes andrelationsTemporal and causal relations;durable objects and statesPart-whole relations; Gestalts~03.
Generalizing4.
Ordering5.
Measuring6.
Analogizing anddisanalogizingSupersets and class-inclusionrelationsPartial and total orderings( including enumerations )Numerical valuesAnalogies, icons; modelsAll these operations may be combined, of course, by function-definition operators in defining intensions.
Models may bedefined in this context in terms of situations, which arehierarchically structured configurations of events where theelements of each level of the hierarchy are connected byrelations of co-occurrence and temporal succession, and differentlevels are connected by part-whole relations.
With each node ofa situational hierarchy will be associated that extensionalinformation which applies (inherently or contextually) to allevents below it.
Some situations will be associated with goalsof the communicating system, which are intensional descriptionsfor which the communicating system seeks to transform the situationin order to satisfy.
These goals form the basis for the operationof programs in the system.The criteriality or noncriteriality of intensional attributesmay be represented by associating with each attribution aquantifier; in an intensional definition these quantifiersrepresent levels of criteriality for attributions.
In Englishand other natural languages there are five levels of criterialityfor both positive and negative attributions that acquire lexicalek~pression~ these, as represented by generic determiners, adverbsof relative frequency and adjectives of possibility, are shown in thediagram below, along with their relations of implication andminLmal mutual contradiction, and their relation to the absolute41scale of probability (represented by the diagonal in the figure).almost all;characteris-some; many; most; .tically; all;sometimes; often; generally; almost always;possible likely probable certain certain/ < ,, < ,, < , ,5~L1I I ?
l' ?
, / ,," X x x ~ ~ ,o .s<J , ,  > ,' > .'
> ,no; few; most + not; not nearly not all;never; seldom; generally + all; not always;impossi- unlikely not; often + not; not certainble improbable not nearlycertainWith a bit of intuition, patience, and attention to therequirements of commutativity and associativity, one may alsoconstruct a heuristic "multiplication table" that will defineproducts of these levels of possibility, to handle conjunc-tive and disjunctive attributions.The most general possible explication of messages, and probablythe one that will prove to be necessary for a semantic theory,is that they be simply any programs in the system.
Other thanperformative operations and intensional evaluation operations,the set of operations that constitute messages will includefinding an instance of an intension, creating a new instance ofan intension, finding or creating an intension similar to agiven intension, inserting or deleting quantified relations42between extensions and/or intensions, comparing extensions orintensions for equality, inclusion, or mutual exclusiveness,adding or deleting intensional definitions, modifying inten-sional definitions, rearranging and otherwise modifying situationstructures, numerical computations, and the logical operationsindicated by the function-definition operators.
The specificform of the language in which all these operations may best becombined into programs is yet to be determined, but it may wellturn out to be similar to Woods' procedural language, in whichthe basic statement form is a quantified "pattern-operation" rule.C.
Decoding and EncodingThe process of decoding natural language consists of three stages:syntax recognition, semantic translation, and application to themodel representing the current discourse context.
Syntaxrecognition includes recognition of both phrase structure andrelations of gra~natical ~em~nt  among the two or moreconstituents that are combined by a syntactic rule.
Syntacticerror correction might be handled by a method akin to Chomsky's\[l~\] notion of "degrees of g r~t ica lness" :  relaxation offirst grammatical agreement and then syntactic categorizationconditions could be allowed until a parsing leading to asemantically-acceptable decoding was obtained.
Semantictranslation of the cembination of constituents recognized intoa functional form in the message language then proceeds byway of one or more interpretation functions associated with therule of grammar.
These interpretation functions will maketests for agreement among the inherent and contextual attributesof the intensions they combine; if any of these tests fails,metaphorical interpretation rules (which operate by analogizin~43and disanalogizing) might be invoked to attempt to resolve theconflict through appropriate construal of one or more of theconstituents before the interpretation is rejected entirely.
Inthe final step, application to the model representing the discoursecontext, antecedents of anaphoric and elliptical expressions arefound through appropriate intensional evaluation, and furtherdisambiguation may be achieved in case one or more of thealternative decodings contains presuppositions that are notsatisfied in the model.
Here additional rules of application mayneed to be introduced to add information to the model that isrequired by a presupposition but with respect to which the modelis nonc cmnittal.The problem of encoding is that of transforming a message into awell-formed surface syntactic structure through lexical substitu-tion and formation of syntactic constructions.
Encoding may beformulated as a recursive top-down procedure, which operates fromthe outermost level of functional application in the message oninward to the point where each expression may be replaced by alexical item, therea?%er "unwinding" its way back outward,applying syntactic encodings followed optionally by syntactictransformations to each functional composition encountered onthe way.
There will, of course, be alternative paths that maybe followed in the encoding of a message, because of thepossibilities of alternative lexical substitutions, applicationsof alternative encoding rules, and optional application oftransformations.
Some of these paths may block because syntacticconditions on the application or output of the encoding rulesare not satisfied, others because certain "performance-oriented"constraints, such as constraints on the level of certain typesof embedding, are not met in the resulting surface structure.~4The rules for lexical substitution can probably be formulated alongthe lines proposed by Gruber, those for encoding into nominalstructures along lines suggested by Celce and Schwarcz \[ll, 12\],and those for encoding into clauses and sentences along the linessuggested by Fillmore.Both decoding and encoding may be formulated most neatly as non-deterministic procedures employing heuristic search and evaluation.The rules employed in both, furthermore, are of the pattern-opera-tion type, the syntactic structures they operate on are of theform of situation structures, and the semantic structures theyoperate on are, of course, components of models and messages.Therefore both procedures and rules for decoding and encodingshould be formulatable, and perhaps formulatable most elegantly,in the message language, since it is a general-purpose programminglanguage containing all these features.
Such a formulationwould have the further advantages of parsimony with respect tocomputer implementation of the semantic theory and easy modifi-ability through the ability to use natural-language statementsto effect changes in these procedures and rules.D.
ImplicationsThe approach described above, though it has not yet been imple-mented, can be regarded as a sincere attempt to meet the require-ments set forth for a formal theory of natural language semanticsin the first part of this paper--an achievement that no otherapproach advanced to date can claim, despite the many valuableideas these approaches have produced.
Evaluation of thisattempt as a semantic theory must, of course, await thesatisfaction of the final requirement: that the proposed system,45when progrmmned, engage successfully in purposive co~unlcat ionwith speakers of a natural language.
Simply as an approach thatholds the promise of adequacy as a semantic theory, h0wever , itcan provide a unifying direction for research in a number ofareas, including linguistics, lexicology, logic, theory ofcomputing, and artificial intelligence.
The unification of sucha diversity of directions of exploration, along with therigorous test that the approach implies for an operationist theoryof knowledge and meaning, should render the approach an interest-ing and fruitful one for philosophical study and exploration.Adopting an approach such as this, or any approach satisfyingthe requirements for a semantic theory, as ~ metatheoreticalbasis would also help greatly to resolve the confusion thatexists today in linguistic theory.
This state of disarray is aresult of the fact that, with a very few exceptions, linguistshave basically ignored the fundamental fact of language asbeing a tool for communicating sc~ethin~ to somebody.
They havealmost without exception ignored the interface between languageand the speaker's or hearer's model of the universe of discourse.Operating in this sort of vacuum, linguists are under too fewempirical constraints to determine any theory of grammar, letalone one that is meaningful.
Only a semantic metatheory thattakes the con~nunicational significance of language explicitlyinto account can provide a satisfactorily sound basis for atheory of gra~nar.The exploration of the approach offered here would bear verymuch upon the interests of cognitive psychologists, too, in thatit offers a unified framework for a theory of language andcognitive processing.
The heuristic-search-and-evaluation mode~6of operation is the paradigm that has emerged from an extensiveamount of empirical research on human thinking and problemsolving; its successful extension to explicating the understand-ing and production of language would lend support to the viewthat the mechanisms employed in language processing are thesame as those employed in human thinking in general.
The specificforms of model and message structures would, conversely, providea basis for a formal theory of cognition that would receivesupport from the linguistic side as well.Finally, the formulation of the approach as a general-purposeprogramming system implies that it would be usable, in principleat least, for any application of computers to linguistic andsemantic information processing, including all the ones mentionedearlier in the paper.
Availability of suitable computer hardvareand operating systems would, of course, be essential to anyapplication of the approach on a realistic scale.
A more demand-ing requirement, however, is that of encoding the definitions ofthe thousands of different words that make up any natural languageinto an appropriately structured lexicon.
A standard dictionaryis one possible source of this information, but it will obviouslynot contain enough to define every word of a language operationally.The work of Olney e ta l  \[BBS should be very helpful, however, indetermining what can be gleaned from a standard dictionary andwhether this information can be appropriately supplemented toyield an adequate operational lexicon, or whether a major newlexicographic effort, more rigorous in its requirements than anythat have gone before, will have to be undertaken.
Nhatever thecase, the operational lexicon, once created, would be usable forall varieties of applications--and its construction, as well asthe programming of applications, would be made 'easier by thecapability implied by this approach to program the system in a47natural language once it had been supplied with sufficientinformation to define the semantics of a suitable "base"subset of the language.This approach, of course, is only one of many that might betaken to formalizing the semantics of natural languages.
Likeall other approaches that have been attempted or proposed sofar, it will surely reveal its limitations somewhere alongthe way.
But at a time when linguistics, semantics, andcomputational linguistics are all anxiously searching fora paradigm to follow, this may well be a fruitful one to try.~8l?2.3.4..6.7.8.REFERENCESAustin, John L., How to do thln~s with words.
Oxford,Clarendon Press, 1962.Bar-Hillel, Yehoshua, The outlook for computational semantics.Proceedin6s of the Conference on Computer-Related SemanticAnalysis (Las Vegas, Nevada, December 3-5~ 1965), Detroit,Wayne State University Press, 1965.Bar Hillel, Yehoshua, Dictionaries and meaning rules.Foundations .
of Language ~, November 1967, ~09-~1~.Bellert, Irena, Relational phrase structure grammar and itstentative applications.
Information and Control 8, October1965, 5o3-53o.Benjamin 3 A. Cornelius, Operatlonism.
Springfield, Illinois,Charles C. Thomas, 1955.Bennik, F. D., R. M. Sehwarcz and H. F. Silberman, Linguisticand tutorial modeling for natural language CAI.
SystemDevelopment Corporation SP-3266, Santa Monica, California,December 1968.Bohnert, H. G. and P. O.
Backer, Automatic English-to-logictranslation in a simplified model, IR~ Watson Research CenterRC-1744, Yorktown Heights, New York, January 1967.Bridaman, P. W., The wa~ thin6s are.
Cambridge, Massachusetts,Harvard University Press, 1959.18.
Craig, J.
A., S. C. Berezner, H. C. Carney and C. R. Longyear,DEACON: Direct English Access and CONtrol.
Pre@eedln~s 1968AFIPS Fall Joint Com~uter Con.re .fence 29, 365-380.19.20.Darlington, Jared L., Machine methods for proving logicalarguments expressed in English.
Mechanical Translation 8,July 1965, ~1-67.Fillmore, Charles J., The case for case.
In E. Bach andRo Harms (eds.
), Universals in linguistic theory, New York,Holt Rinehart s~nd Winston, 1968.2_1.
Fillmore, Charles J., Types of lexlcal information.
InC.  J .Fillmore and I. Lehiste, Working papers in lin6uistics No.
2,CISRC Technical Report 68-3, Ohio State University, Columbus,Ohio, November 1968, 65-103.22.
Green, C. Cordell and Bertram Raphael, The use of theorem-proving techniques in question-answering systems.
Proceedin6s1968 AC~4 National Conference, 169-182.23.
Gruber, Jeffrey, Functions of the lexicon in formal descriptive~rs .
System Development Corporation TM-3770,Santa Monica, California, December 1967.24.
Katz, Jerrold J., Analyticity and contradiction in naturallanguage.
In Fodor and Katz, 519-544.25.26.Katz, Jerrold J., Recent issues in semantic theory.
Foundationsof Language 3--, May 1967, 124-194.Katz, Jerrold J. and Jerry A. Fodor, The structure of a semantictheory.
In Fodor and Katz, 479-518.27.
Katz, Jerrold J. and Psul M. Postal, An inte~Tatedtheor~oflinguistic descriptions.
Cambridge, Massachusetts, M.I.T.Press, 1964.28.
Kellogg~ Charles H., Designing artificial languages forinformation storage and retrieval.
In H. Borko (ed.
),Automated language processing: the  state of the art, NewYork, Wiley, 1967, 325-368.29.
Kellogg, Charles H., A natural language compiler for on-linedata mauagement.
Proceedings 1968AFIPS Fall Joint Com~uterConference 3_~3, &73-~gR.3O.
Kirsch, Russell A., Computer interpretation of English textand picture patterns.
IEEE Transactions on ElectronicComputers EC-13, 1964, 363-376.31.
Morris, Charles, Signs, language, and behavior.
EnglewoodCliffs, New Jersey, Prentice-Hall, 1946.32.
Morris, Charles, Signification and significance.
Cambridge,Massachusetts, M.I.T.
Press, 1964.33.
Olney, John, Carter Revsrd and Paul Ziff, Toward thedevelopment of computational aids for obtaining a formalsemantic description of English.
System DevelopmentCorporation SP-2766/001/003 October 1968.3~.
Pople, Harry E. Jr., A ~oal-oriented language for the com~uter.Ph.D.
thesis, Carnegie-Mellon Universitys Pittsburgh 3Pennsylvania, January 1969.9.i0.ll.12.15-16.7.Carnap, Rudolf, Meanln~ and necessity.
2nd ed., Chicago,University of Chicago Press, 1956.Celee, Marianne and Robert M. Schwarez, A note on two basicsemantic distinctions.
System Development Corporation SP-3353,Santa Monica, California, April 1969.Celce, Marianne and Robert M. Schwarcz, Counting, collecting,measuring, and quantifying in English.
System DevelopmentCorporation SP-3378, Santa Monica, California, May 1969.Celce, Marianne and Robert M. Sch~rcz, Predicate nominals:lexieally single s~Id lexieally complex.
System DevelopmentCorgoration SP-3379, Santa Monica, California, May 1969.Celee, Marianne and Robert M. Sehwarcz, Nominal quantificationin En@lish: a semantic description.
System DevelopmentCorporation SP-3380, Santa Monica, California, May 1969.Chomsky, Noam, Deg~ees of grammaticalness.
In J.
A. Fodorand J. J. Katz (eds.
), The structure of language: readingsin the philosophy of language, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey,Prentice-Hall, 1964, 384-389.Chomsky, Noam, Aspects of the t heor~ of s~qtax.
Cambridge,Massachusetts, M.I.T.
Press, 1965.Cohen, L. Jonathan, Review of J. J. Kstz, The philosophy oflanguage.
Journal of Linguistics ~, April 1967, 163-165.Coles, L. Stephen, An on-line question-answering system withnatural language and pictorial input.
Pro.ceedin6s 1%8 ACMNational Conference, 157-168.35.36.37.38.39.~o.Quillian, Mo Ross, Semantic memory.
Ph.D. thesis, CarnegieInstitute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, February1966.Quillian, M. Ross, Word concepts: a theory and simulationof some basic semantic capabilities.
Behavioral Science 1~2,September 1967, &lO-&30.Quillian, M. Ross, The Teachable Language Comprehender: aprogram to understand English.
Report No.
1693, Bolt Beranekand New~n Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts, March 1968.
(To be published in Communications of the ACM)Schwarcz t Robert M. ~ Steps toward a model of linguisticperformance: a preliminary sketch.
Mechanical Translationand Computational Linguistics i0, September and December 1967,39-52.Schwarcz, R. M., J. F. Burger and R. F. Si~nons~ A deductivequestion answerer for natural-language inference.
SystemDevelopment Corporation SP-327~, Santa Monica, California,November 1968.
(Submitted for publication to Communicationsof the ACM)Simmons, Robert F., Answering English questions by computer:a survey.
Communications of the ACM 8, January 1965, 53-70.Simmons, Robert F., Natural language question answerlngsystems: 1969, Computation Center report TNN-87, Universityof Texas, Austin, Texas, January 1969.
(To be published inCommunications of the ACM).5342.43.44.45.46.47.48.~9.Simmons, R. F., J. F. Burger and R. M. Schwarcz, A ccarputationalmodel of verbal understanding.
Proceedings i~8 AFIPS FallJoint Computer Conference 33, 441-h56.Tarski, Alfred, The concept of truth in formalized languages.In A. Tarski, Logic, semanticsj and metamathematics (trans.
byJ.
H. Wood@er), Oxford, Clarendon Press, 1956, 152-278.Thompson, Frederick B., English for the computer.
Proceedinss1~66 AFIPS Fall Joint Computer Conference 29, 349-356.Travis, Larry E., Analytic information retrieval.
In P. L.Garvin (ed.
), Natural language and the computer, New York,McGraw-Kill, 1963, 310-353.Watzlawiek, P., J. K. Beavin and D. D. Jackson, Pra~matics ofhuman co~nunication.
New York, Norton~ 1967.Weinreich, Uriel, Explorations in semantic theory.
In T.Sebeok (ed.
), Current issues in lin~istics, The Hague, Moutonand Co., 1966, Vol.
3, 395-477.Wilks, Yorick 3 Computable semantic derivations.
SystemDevelopment Corporation SP-3017, Santa Monica, California,January 1968.Woods, William k. ~ Procedural semantics for a question-answering machine.
Proceedin6s 1968 AFIPS Fall Joint ComputerConference 33, 457-471.
