MONTE CARLO SIMULATION OF LANGUAGE CHANGEIN TIKOPIA & MAORI*bySheldon Klein, Michael A. Kuppin& Kirby A. MeivesComputer Sciences Department1210 W. Dayton StreetUniversity of WisconsinMadison, Wisconsin 53706i.
IntroductionThe use of Monte Carlo Simulation with micro socio-linguistic models permits testing of many hypotheses un-verifiable by any other known method.
The methodology un-derlying the research described in th i spaper  in outlined,and, to some extent, justified in \[20-22\].
Basically, thetechnique requires a simulation model with the followingsubcomponents:a) A stochastic socio-demographic model of a speechcommunity for the starting date of the simulation.This model governs the conversational interactionpatterns among members.b) A metamodel of significant historical events andchanges during the simulated time period for usein generating periodic revisions in the basic modelmentioned above.Sponsored in part by the National Science Foundationand the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation.c) Individual  models  of members of the society in theform of dynamical ly  modi f iable inputs to the para-meters that serve as inputs to the rules of thebasic model.
The model of each individual alsoincludes one or more grammars that may be f i l ledwith generat ive rules for several languages.d) A language learning component, both for chi ldrenand adults.
This module permits the generat ion andpars ing of sentences using rules from the grammarsof speci f ied members of the simulation.
The learn-ing component makes it possible for a chi ld borndur ing the s imulat ion to acquire the language orlanguages of his speech community through conver-sational interact ion with other members of the so-ciety, and permits an adult either to modi fy  oneof his grammars in response to some contemporaryl inguist ic  innovation, or to acquire a new lan-guage with rules stored in a separate list.
Thelearning component to be used in the system is agreat ly  improved vers ion of the AUTOLING system\[22 ,23 \]-?
.tA pre l iminary test ing of the s lmulat lon method was success-ful ly carr ied out using a hypothet ica l  speech community con-ta in ing 15 adults and 5 children.
\[ 21 \] The behavioralmodel  was extremely simple, as were the grammars (l imitedto a tiny subset of English).
The learning model was alsosimplistic, involving the actual borrowing of full-fledgedrules rather than their synthesis from fundamental analyticheuristics.
The goal of this test, to attain linguisticand social stability through several generations, was at-tained.
It was important because it demonstrated controlof the model as a preliminary to innovations that mightintroduce linguistic or social change.
(The particularsimulation used a different kind of phrase structure rulenotation than we currently use.
)Now our research is directed toward the testing of themethodology through simulation of language change in a realspeech community, in sufficient depth and detail that thepredictions of the simulation will be subject to empricalverification.
In our preliminary search for a suitable test/case we first selected the speech community on the islandof Tikopia in the South Pacific.
This community seemedideal because of the existence of excellent functionalethnological studies by Raymond Firth that took place in1928-29, 1951 and 1962 \[ 7-11 \], and because Tikopia wasvirtually untouched by World War II.
Both the pertinentdetail of Firth's studies and the relatively restricted anddocumented foreign contacts during this period seemed idealfor our work, and we put some effort into desig~ling a simu-lation system that could handle Tikopian Society and yet4have a basic general ity.
Unfortunately,  F irth was unableto supply us with his l inguist ic f ield notes for T ikopia( l i tt le else of a suitable nature exists%.We then dec ided to switch to a s imulat ion of languagechange among the Maor i  of New Zealand.
The documentat ionfor this group is voluminous and covers several centuries.Of part icu lar  value is the existence of census data on theMar io  dat ing back to the nineteenth century.
The timescale and detai l  level of the Maori  model  mustbe of a coarser sort than for T ikopia because of computert ime and space demands, for it must  account for a popula-t ion 40 to 90 t imes greater  than that of T ikopia over at ime per iod of perhaps 150 years.
However, we found thatthe des ign of our s imulat ion system needed l itt le or nomodi f i cat ion  for the Maori.We expl icate the representat ion of both soci~l inguist ics i tuat ions in Sect ion 3 to provide the reader with insightinto the methodology.2.
Language Learning ComponentThe language learning logic of the AUTOLING System wil lfurn ish the basis for the learning component of the simula-t ion system.
AUTOLING is an automated l inguist ic  f ield-worker  capable of learning generat ive grammars through tele-type interact ion with a live human informant.
The program5is operational on the Burroughs 5500 computer*, and hasbeen successful ly tested on selected problems in English,Latin, Roglai, Indonesian, Thai and German.
The discoverymethods are heurist ic rather than algorithmic, and thesystem is under continued modif ication.
One subcomponentis capable of learning context free phrase structure rulesin response to informant inputs consist ing of sentencessegmented into morphemes.
An attempt is made to parse eachinformant input sentence on the basis of the current tenta-tive grammar.
If the rules are adequate, the program printsthe fact in a teletype message.
If no~ it posits rulesthat might enable the parsing process to be completed.These rules, and their more general ramif icat ions for thegrammar as a whole, are tested via productions offered tothe informant for acceptabi l i ty verif ication.
Rejectedsentences cause the newly posited rules to be discarded.Acceptance of false rules through incomplete testing canoccur.
At the present time, the program tests for such apossibi l i ty by attempting to parse various known il legalsentences.
The most recent ly recorded ones are tested everytime a new rule is coined.
All i l legal sentences are tested atperiodic intervals.
If the bad rules were coined too far in thePrel iminary programming is in ALGOL for the Burroughs5500 computer, eventual ly the program will  be shifted tothe compatible Burroughs 6500.6past for correction, the program throws out its entire gram-mar, and reanalyses the entire corpus, using the i l legalsentence responsib le for the s i tuat ion as one of the keycontrols  on the new grammar.
A later vers ion of AUTOLINGwil l  make a stronger attempt to determine the specif ic cul-prit  rules, and take correct ive act ion in form of trans-formations or s imple context-sens i t ive phrase structurerules.
In fact, eventual ly, the system wil l  learn a trans-formational  grammar consist ing of unordered phrase structurerules plus obl igatory transformat ions that operate whenevercondit ions permit  dur ing the generat ion process.
Also, amorpho logy learning component wi l l  be integrated int O thesystem.For the s imulat ion system, the human informant is re-p laced by another grammar associated with another membero~ the community.
Whi le the system wil l  contain only onelearning program with its associated parsing and generat ionroutines, each grammar associated with each member of thecommunity  might~on various occasions, serve as the grammarin which learning takes place, or as the grammar used toaccept or reject the product ions of an 'embryonic ' grammar.Learning feedback in an adult -adult  conversat ion wi l l  notoccur as often as in a chi ld-adult  context.
The exactc i rcumstances under which an indiv idual 's  grammar learnsor teaches are determined by the soc io-demographic  model.Special features that must be added t~ or modif ied inthe AUTOLING system include the following:a. Mult i l in~ual Dictionary: For Tikopia, a list ofTikopian, English and Melanesian Pidgin morpheme equivalents.Any individual audit ing new lexical items wil l  add a listl ink in his grammar (which references terminal e~lementsonly indirectly) to the appropriate entries.
Links tocorresponding morphemes (if any exist) in other languageswil l  be entered only if the person has actually been exposedto the form in conversation.For special ized vocabulary, the entries will also con-tain markers of the context in which the item is to be used.b.
Sentence Generator: Both the Generator and the Parseruse the same grammars.
The generator selects non-terminalrewrite rules according to relative frequency parametersthat are modif ied during the parsing process.
Terminalelements are referred to by links to the dictionary.
Someterminals are selected on the basis of the generation con-text, i.e., special ized vocabulary referring to items ofmaterial  culture.
Under some conditions, a terminal 'stranslat ion equivalent in another language may be chosen.In the special ized case of normative learning, e.g., ina chi ld-parent relationship, the generator will test newlyformed rules by pert inent test productions offered to thenormative teacher for acceptance or rejection.c.
Parser: The parsing component may modify the fre-quency parameters  pert inent to the generat ion process as afunct ion of a part icu lar  rule's use in recent parsings.3.
Model l ing T ikop ia  and MaoriSome genera l i ty  in the system design would be necessaryeven if one intended to model  only one society.
In parti-cular, the rules governing the interact ion of members of%he populat ion would undoubtedly  be subject to frequentrev is ion dur ing the course of research as it might  becomeapparent that some var iables model led were not pert inent,ana that ommitted ones were signif icant.
A ful ly generalsystem, capable of model l ing  any society, must  contain,impl ic it ly,  a universal  theory of soc io- l inguist ic  behavior.A basic assumpt ion of our system is that an indiv idual 'sgroup membersh ips  const i tute the major  determinants of hisconversat ion  behavior.
Therefore it is essential  that thesystem provide an ef f ic ient  means of descr ibing an individ-ual 's age, sex, pol it ical ,  kin, work and social group member-ships as well  as data of a purely geographic nature.Speci f ical ly ,  for Tikopia, it seemed that age, sex,vi l lage, clan, rel igion, household, mar i ta l  state, workgroups, and social status were the key var iables governingconversat ional  interact ion .
We planned to s imulatea thirty or th i r ty- f ive year t ime span in a model  contain-ing a populat ion sample of about 120-165 people d istr ibuted9among three villages, representing about 1300 to 1800 peopledistr ibuted among approximately 25 vil lages.The decision to construct the model with a few vi l lagescontaining a large fraction of their real-world populat ion(as opposed to more vi l lages with fewer modeled people pervillage) was made on the basis of material  contained inFirth \[ 7-11 \] indicating the vi l lage as thelargest pertinent unit for our purposes.
The decision tomodel three vi l lages was based on the recognit ion of thesubordinate, but real pert inence of inter-vi l lage relations.The problem of representing a complete mult i -generat ionkinship structure for each individual also set a lower boundon the number of people per village.The actual method of crea}ing an initial populat ionstate is rather complex, and is descr ibed in Section 4.The researcher attempting to model Maori society isfaced with the problem of f inding pert inent data in a vastl i terature of essential ly non-pert inent material.
Fortu-nately, off icial government census information, dating backto the mid-ninteenth century, provide valuable demographicdata.The populat ion size demands a dif ferent kind of samplingthan in the Tikopia model.
The population ranged from56,000 in 1857-8 to 167,000 in 1961.
A study of the litera-ture suggestS that the Maori -Engl ish l inguistic acculturat ioni0phenomena might best be modelled in the following way:a.
Population: Sample size ranging from i00 to 300Maori plus English speakers.b.
Geographical Distribution: Two communities remotefrom white contact, plus the graduate creation ofa city population group, and a group in an inter-mediate location.c.
Key Social Variables: Tribe, hap~ or tribal sub-group, social class (aristocrat or commoner~ age group(child, young unmarried, young married to middle aged,elder) l ineag~ work groups or occupat io~ and relig-ion.
The hap~, rather than the immediate family,appears to be the minimal significant social unitof organization for the goals of our simulation.In the case of city dwelling Maori, residence inthe same city constitutes another group membership.d.
Meta-model of Historical Change: Gradually in-creasing contact with English speakers, wars, grad-ual migrations to urban areas.4.
Systgm Organization and Construction of the Data BaseThe learning program, as it stands, demands an inter-action between a live informant and teletype outputtedquestions.
It is necessary, for the purpose of reducingthe enormous computer time required for the successfuliis imulat ion of change in l inguist ic patterns, to be able tobreak the current program into two parts -- one part thatcan read sentences input to it without asking for immediatehelp, and another which wil l  generate sentences randomly,based on the rules that were formulated during the inputstage.The port ion of the program that is responsible for thegenerat ion of random sentences wil l  also determine the con-text in which the sentence was spoken.
Context is deter-mined by def ining the subclass of persons who would bel istening to this sentence, and placing an indicator of thissubclass in the fi le of sentences which are generated.
Thesentences wil l  be placed in a file, that wil l  later bepassed against all individuals in the sample in order thatpart icular aquaintances are able to "hear" what was said--at the same time creating rules which shall be used in thenext generat ion pass.At major  points in the process, events take place thatneed not be thought of during the normal cycl ic activity.These involve the life and death routines, marr iage cere-monies, arr ival-departures,  and recreation of the aquain-tance lists that descr ibe who is l istened to.
Because ofthe one-to-many character of speeches, it is possible tokeep the aquaintance lists to a manageable size by l ist ingonly those persons whom one l istens to, and not those who12are spoken to.Before we examine the conversat ion process further letus d iscuss the general  problem of creat ing a sample fordata that is avai lable only in aggregate form.4.1 Sample Generat ionFor many groups to be studied by the process descr ibedin this paper, samples do not exist.
If any informationexists at al l  about these groups it is often in the formof c ross - tabu lat ion  tables publ ished as an indicat ion ofcensus patterns, and is usual ly  not g iven in its raw form.
*The problem of creat ing a k inship structure is not ofthis uype.
In the case of T ikopia it is essent ia l  to keepurack of kin re lat ions wi th  contemporar ies  that may oweunelr or ig in  to l inks with common ancesters, perhaps 2 or3 qenerat ions  removed, who may be deceased at the start ofthe slmulation.
The best  automated method we could deviseinvolves running an accelerated,  prefatory, part ia l  simu-ia=Ion of the society beginning several generat ions beforenhe of f ic ia l  start date.
The only aspects model led wouldhe those governing birth and death, residence change andmarr lage rules.
Init ial ly,  al l  indiv iduals would be assumedzc De unrelated, and marr iage would take place with rela-t lve freedom.
As the prefatory  s imulat ion progreSSes throughsuccess ive generat ions,  kin t ies are createdjand the freechoice of spouses disappears.
By the time the pres imulat ionis completed,  the or ig inal  start ing populat lon is aeao, andeach member  of the main s imulat ion populat ion has a completeand cons istent  set of k insh ip  relations.
The level of de-zail in the  Maori  s i tuat ion does no~ demand this micro-computat ion of k inship (see Sect ion 3).13To model groups of people where it is impossible to col lectraw data because of expense, time, or other compl icat ionssuch as the passage of time rendering the sample change(historical groups), it is often necessary to create asample of people art i f ic ial ly.
Since any such attempt wil lresult in an incorrect sample, it is important to real izethis beforehand and be on guard when viewing the resultsof the study against arr iving at conclusions which are in-valid.
We can, however, obtain results that have someval id i ty by restr ict ing our discussion to those character-istics of the sample that we are able to insert into oursample creation process by the heurist ic methods descr ibedbelow.
We real ize that heurist ic processes are just that--there is no real guarantee of success in creating a samplewhich is total ly accurate.
But by prefacing theresu l t sof our study with this disclaimer, and restr ict ing ourstated conclusions to those populat ion character ist icswhich we know to be true, useful research can be expected.We can i l lustrate the sample creation best by an immediateexample.Suppose we are interested in the study of l inguist icpatterns as they are formed with respect to three var iables--age, sex, and marital  status.
It is necessary f irst to des-cribe the catagories that are important to us foreach of the variables in the model.14If we posit that age does not inf luence l inguist ic patternsexcept in major  catagories, we can break the ages into thethree groups Young, Adult, and Elder.Since the other two var iables Sex and Mar i ta l  Statushave well  def ined groupings (Male, Female; Married, Un-marr ied),  we can def ine our task with the fol lowing table:Mar i ta l  Percent ofAge Se___xx StatusYoung Male Marr iedAdult  Male Marr iedElder Male Marr iedYoung Female Marr iedAdult  Female Marr iedElder Female Marr iedYoung Male Unmarr iedAdult  Male Unmarr iedElder Male Unmarr iedYoung Female Unmarr iedAdult  Female Unmarr iedElder Female Unmarr iedPopulat ion9999999999?Def in ing a populat ion ar t i f i c ia l ly  for the requirementsof the s imulat ion process involves the accurate choice ofpercentages of the total  populat ion for each of the abovepermuted catagories of variables.
This can be done in manyways.15i.
By hand.
The above percentages may be chosen bythe researcher after careful reading of documents descri -bing populat ion characterist ics.2.
By computer algorithm.
There are often publ ishedstat ist ics on populat ions that can be used to create appro-pr iate percentages.
Cross-tabulat ion tables are the mostfruitful  in this attempt, as they often contain all of thenecessary information within them.
If they do not, otherpopulat ion statist ics such as correlat ion matr ices may beused ~.g., lacking a publ ished table displaying the rela-t ionship between Age and Income, a correlat ion coeff ic ientof .46 is useful).
Since some of the information may beeither contradictory or of d isproport ionate value, it isnecessary that a decis ion be made on the actual ~istr ibut ioncharacterist ics.
If tables are avai lable showing the rela-t ionships, they should be used.
But if tables are not avail-able, or if the only avai lable information about a part icularre lat ionship is in the form of another statistic, the prefer-able thing to do is to create the table by hand, based onresearch of the textaal  material.For example, assume that we wish to bui ld a fi le of per-sons as ment lon~d earlier.
In reviewing the publ ished tables,however, we cannot f ind a table relat ing Ag4~and MaritalS ta tus .
We do find, on the other hand, that the correlat ionbetween Age and Marital  Status is given as .43.
Using this16information, together with research of the text, it may bepossible to generate a table of the fol lowing form:Marr ied Unmarr iedYoung 2% 28%Adult  46% 16%Elder 3% 5%If we make no use of the knowledge of the corre lat ioncoef f ic ient  of .43 between Age and Marital  Status, we maygenerate a sample that has serious faults.
Not makinguse of it in this case would be similar to creat ing a tableof the form:Marr ied Unmarr iedYoung 15% 15%Adult  32% 30%Elder 4% 4%(approximate corre lat ion coeff ic ient  r = 0)This table is c lear ly  incorrect, Mar i ta l  Status shouldlnot be d istr ibuted evenly with respect to age.If a process of random select ion over the specif iedprobabi l i ty  d istr ibut ions (the relat ive frequency tables)is used to create the persons in our sample, it should be17possible to run a cross-tabulat ion on this data with theresult  being that we can reproduce the tables that westarted with to create that data.After  the process of sample creat ion is finished, wemay produce a table of the form:Percent ofMarita l  Populat ionAge Se___xx Status (rounded)Young Male Marr ied 0%Adult  Male Marr ied 22%Elder Male Marr ied 2%Young Female Marr ied 2%Adult Female Marr ied 24%Elder Female Marr ied 1%Young Male Unmarr ied 13%Adult Male Unmarr ied 9%Elder Male Unmarr ied 2%Young Female Unmarr ied 15%Adult  Female Unmarr ied 7%Elder Female Unmarr ied 3%This table would imply the use, in part, of the marginalrelat ive distr ibutions:18~ le  48%Female 52%Young 30%Adult  62%Elder 8%Marr ied  51%Unmarr ied 59%It can be seen that s ince there are few (the number isrounded to 0%) young marr ied  males, more information wasused to arr ive at these values than merely  the use of themargina l  d istr ibut ions.
Their  use alone would imply that1 there should be approx imate ly  6~ % young marr ied males.4.2 Aqua intance Lists.To model  the l inguist ic  patterns as they occur in thereal world, it is necessary  to account in some way for appro-pr iate d isseminat ion  of  informat ion by insist ing that eachperson speak for the most  part  wi th the same persons hespoke to in the past.
This is a tedious process if donedynamica l ly  at the t ime the conversat ions are to take placein the computer simulation, we can show that it is par-s imonious to create an "acquaintance list" of those personswho are in frequent contact  with each individual,  and to changetthis acquaintance l ist at more infrequent intervals.
Theacquaintance l ists may be updated together with other majoract ions,  such as the b i r th and death routines, arr ivals  anddepartures,  and the occurance of natural  phenomena such asseasonal  change.19We may bui ld the acquaintance list by a technique close-ly approximat ing that which occurs natural ly by the "bestfit" method in which two persons are said to be "acquain-tances" if they have various attr ibutes in common -- theymay live near each other, work together, or belong to thesame social group.
If many attr ibutes are in common, then,these people wil l  be very l ikely to be forced to speak toone another whether or not they might be c lass i f ied correct-ly as "friends".More formally, we may def ine a person's attr ibutes byhis posit ion in the sample space.
For a sample of nvariables, a person can be def ined by t:he n - tup le  (?I,V2,...,Vn).
By a simple calculus, we can map this point from theinteger n-space into the boolean m-space, where m isgreater than or equal to n , and each var iable now has thevalue 1 if the persons can be character ized by the truthof this attribute, and 0 otherwise.
For example, thevar iable Ag~ in our example abov~ would be changed from onevariable with three values to three var iables with twovalues each.
From Age: l=Young, 2=Adult, 3=Elder, wewould construct Young in Age: l=True, 0=False; Adult  inAge: l=True, 0=False; Elder in Age: l=True, 0=False.A person in our sample can now be character ized by theb~olean m-tuple (BI,B2,...,Bm).
In order to determine whichattr ibutes that two persons have in common, it is necessary20to ADD (mult iply) these  to boo lean  vectors  together .
Theresu l tant  vector  has l 's in the pos i t ions  where  the twopersons  or ig iona l ly  both  had had l's, and no p lace  e lseare there  l's.To account  for the d i spropor t ionate  impor t  of the factthat  two a t t r ibutes  are  in common,  and in some ins tancesto cor rect  for the fact  that  persons  may be more  l ike ly  tobe acqua in tances  if they do not  have two par t i cu la r  a t t r i -butes  in common (e.g., Sex),  the resu l tant  vector  is mu l t i -p l ied  by a th i rd  Weight  vector  W .The  Resu l tant  vector  is summed to a scalar ,  and th isnumber  is compared  to an externa l ly  spec i f ied  "hit" va lue"H" to determine  whether  these  two persons  are sa id  to be"acqua in tances" .
Example := ( l ,0 ,0 ,1 ,0 ,1 ,1 ,0 ,1 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,1 ,0 ,1 ,1 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,1 ,1 )= (0 ,1 ,1 ,1 ,1 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,1 ,1 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,1 ,0 ,1 )A--B = (0 ,0 ,0 , i ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0~0,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 , i ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 , i )= (4 ,4 ,5 ,4 ,5 ,4 ,4 ,4 , -5 ,4 ,4 ,4 ,4 ,4 ,4 ,4 ,1 ,4 ,4 ,4 ,4 ,4 ,4 )R=ABW = (0 ,0 ,0 ,4 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,4 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,4 )mX = ~ R i=12i=lH = 35In th is  case  we see that  s ince  the va lue  of our  ca lcu -la t ion  X does  not  exceed or equa l  the hi t  va lue  H , were jec t  these two persons  as be ing  acqua in tances .
Th is  re-21jec t ion  can be eas i ly  changed into a more  dynamic  techn iqueby the use of  more  soph is t i ca ted  s tochast i c  methods ,  suchas the re jec t ion  be ing cond i t ions  on a random number  ex-ceed ing  the d i f fe rence  between the numbers  X and H .Fur ther  se lec t ion  is necessary  to determine  one-s ided  re-la t ionsh ips .
It may be poss ib le  that  A is an acqua in tanceof B (B l i s tens to A) but  B is not  an acqua in tance  ofA (A does not  l i s ten to B), for ins tance  if A is av i l l age  chief ,  and B is a non-dest ingu ished  v i l l age  mem-ber.4.3 Conversat ion  In teract ionThe f low of the generat ion  and pars ing  process  is asfo l lows  (the on ly  except ions  are in the case of normat ivelearn ing  were immediate  aud i to r  feedback  is requ i red) :a. Conversat ion  Creat ion:i.
Generate  al l  u t te rances  f rom each grammar  atone t ime, by pass ing  the grammar  f i le  ser ia l ly .A.
The number  of u t te rances  for each pass  isset as an externa l  parameter  ?
'S" .B.
Generate  "S" sentences  in context  C 1 .Generate  "S" sentences  in context  C 2 .Generate  "S" sentences  in context  C 3 .Generate  "S" sentences  in context  C n2.
Enter  conversat ion  c reat ion  rout ine.22The conversat ion  c reat ion  rout ine  wi l l  perusethe acqua in tance  l is ts  of each  persons  to generate" l i s tens"  in  the form of o rdered  t r ip les  (a,b,c),wherea = ID of l i s tenerb = ID of Acqua in tancec = Context  of talk.Th is  t r ip le  (a,b,c) w i l l  be p laced  in a f i leca l led  the " l is ten" f i le.
The " l is ten" f i le, whenf in i shed,  w i l l  be a s tack  of ent r ies  in o rder  bythe f i r s t  ent ry  a i .a I b I c 1a 2 b 2 c 2a 3 b 3 c 3: : :a b c n n n3.
Enter  the rout ine  wh ich  parses  the sentenceproduced.b.
The Pars ing  Process :For  any two persons  A and B, A Can l i s ten  tosentences  produced by B in on ly  one  context .i.
B r ing  in the grammar  for person  A f romsecond- leve l  memory2.
Determine  the address  on second- leve l  memoryof the conversat ion  spec i f ied  by the t r ip le  (a,b,c)23and bring it into f i rst- level  memory (core).3.
Parse, or "listen" to the sentence.4.
Iterate on step 2 until  all sentences are parsed.5.
Put the new grammar for this person on second-level memory .
.
.
.
.6.
Get the next grammar from second- level  memoryand go to step 2.7.
If no next grammar, increment the time counter.8.
If t ime to recreate the acquaintance lists orother major  events such as birth/death rout ines andarr ivals/departures do so.9.
Iterate on step 1 unti l  f in ished with ent ires imulat ion process.5.
Interpretat ion of ResultsThe key problem is determining the success or fai lureof a simulation.
Assuming everything else has gone well,how does one compare the grammars of the populat ion membersto determine their mutual s imi lar i t ies and their re lat ionto the language situation in contemporary, real wor ld MaoriSociety?The design of the system offers a un iqu~ deta i ledsquan-t i tat ive method for determining the similar ity of the com-petence of speakers.
Every legal sentence ever generatedin the course of the simulat ion is saved by the system.
At24the end of the s imulat ion (or some other time) each individ-ual must attempt to parse every legal sentence ever produced.Di f ferent  individuals may expect to have varying degrees ofsuccess in their  pars ing attempts.
Analysis  of the resultscan offer a deta i le~ object ive picture of the dialect  situ-at ion on the basis of common success or fai lure in parsingpart icu lar  sentences.
These results may be correlated withany soc io-demographic  factors recorded in the data base ofthe model.Given these rssults, one may then send the same l ist ofsentences to New Zealand, and have the analogous test per-formed on a sample of the Maori  population, asking informantsto indicate the legal and i l legal sentences.The results of the l ive testing may then be comparedwith the s imulat ion results.
Thus, the Monte Car lo simu-lat ion approach appears to of fer  L inguist ics a strongempir ica l  methodology for test ing otherwise unver i f iab lehypotheses.25References and Bibliography1.
Ausubel, David: Maori Youth, Price Milburn, Wellington,1961.2.
Best, Elsdon: The Maori, 2 vols., Memoirs of the Poly-nesian Society, No.
5, Wellington, 1924.3.
Beaglehole, Ernest and Pearl: Some Modern Maoris, NewZealand Council for Educational Research, Wellington,1946.4.
Biggs, Bruce: Maori Marria@e, Polynesian Society MaoriMonographs No.
i, Wellington, 1960.5.
Biggs, Bruce: The Structure of New Zealand Maori, Re-prlnted from Anthropological Linguistics, Vol.
3, No.
3;En~lish-Maori Dictionary, Reed, Wellington, 1966.6.
Buck, Peter: The Comin~ of the Maori, Maori PurposesFund Board and Whitecombe and Tombs Ltd., Wellington,First Edition 1949.7.
Firth, Raymond: Economics of the New Zealand Maori,Government Printer, Wellington, First Edition 1929,Second Edition 1959.8.
Firth.
Ravmond: We the Tikopia, George Allen & Unwin,London, ' 1936.9.
Firth.
Raymond: 'A Note on Descent-Groups in Polynesia',Man, Vol.
57, 1957, pp.
4-8.i0.
Firthm Raymond: Social Chan~e in Tikopia, George Allen& Unwin, London, 1959.ii.
Fi~th m Raymond: Primitive Polynesian Economy, 2ndEdition, Routledge & Kegan Paul, London, 1965.12.
Groube, L. M.: Settlement Pattern in Prehistoric NewZealand, M.A.
Thesis, The University of Auckland, 1964.13.
Hargreaves, R. P.: 'Changing Maori Agriculture in Pre-Waitange New Zealand', J.P.S~, Vol.
72, No.
2, 1963,pp.
101-17; 'Maori Agriculture of the Auckland Provincein the Mid-Nineteenth Century', J.P.S., Vol.
68; No.
21959, pp.
61-79; 'Maori Agriculture after the Wars(1871-1886)', J.P.S., Vol.
69, No.
4, 1960, pp.
354-67.14.
Harre, John: 'The Relevance of Ancestry as a Factorin Social and Cultural Choice', J.P.S., Vcl.
74, No.
i,1965, pp.
3-20.
*Journal of the Polynesian Society.2615.
|larre, John: Maori and Pakeha, Institute of RaceRelations and Oxford University Press, 1966.16.
Hawthorn, H. B.: The Maori: A Study in Acculturation,American Anthropology Association Memoir 46, 1944.17.
Holst, Halvor: 'The Maori Schools in Maori Education',Education, Vol.
7, Department of Education, Wellington,March 1958, pp.
53-59.18.
Hunn, J. K.: Report on Department of Maori Affiars24 August 1960, Government Printer, Wellington, 1961.19.
Keesing, Felix: The Changing Maori, The Board of MaoriEthnological Research, New Plymouth, 1928.20.
Klein, S.: Some Components of a Program for DynamicModelling of Historical Change in Language.
Paper No.14 of Preprints of Invited Papers for 1965 InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics, May 19-21,New York.
\[To appear in Russian in a book on LanguageContact edited by V. Rosentsveig\].21.
Klein, S.: Historical Change in Language Using MonteCarlo Techniques.
Mechanical Translation, Vol.
9,Nos.
3 & 4, September & December, 1966 (Pub.
May 1967).\[To appear in English in an English version of theabove mentioned Rosentsveig book.\]22.
Klein, S.: Current Research in the Computer Simulationof Eistorlcal Change in Language.
In press, Proceedingsof the Xth International Congress of Linguists, 1968,Romanian Government, Bucharest.
(See papers presented).23.
Klein, S., Fabens, W., Herriot, R., Katke, W., & Towster,A.
: The AUTOLING System.
University of Wisconsin Com-puter Sciences Department.
Technical Report No.
43, Sept.1968.24.
Maunsell, R.: Grammar of the New Zealand Language,Upton & Co. Auckland, 1894.25.
Maori Affairs, Department of: The Maori Today, (a) FirstEdition 1949; (b) Third Edition 1964; Government Printer,Wellington.26.
Merge, Joan: 'Marriage in Modern Maori Society', Man,Vol.
57, 1957, pp.
166-70.27.
Metge, Joan: A New Maori Migration: Rural and UrbanRelations in Northern New Zealand, London School ofEconomics Monographs in Social Anthropology No.
27,Athlone Press and Melbourne University Press, 1964.28.29.30.31.32.33.34.35.27Metge, Joan: The Maoris of New Zealand, Rutledge andKegan Paul, London, 1967.Miller, John: Egrl~ Victorian New Zealand, OxfordUniversity Press, 1958.Parr, C. J.: 'A Missionary Library, Printed Attemptsto instruct the Maori', J.P.S., Vol.
70, No.
4, 1961,pp.
429-50; 'Maori Literacy 1843-1887, J.P.S., Vol.
72,No.
3, 1961, pp.
211-34.Sinclair, Keith: The Ori@in of the Maori Wars, NewZealand University Press, Wellington, 1957.Sorrenson, M. P. K.: 'Land Purchase Methods and theirEffect on Maori Population 1865-1901', J.P.S., Vol.
65,No.
3, 1956, pp.
183-99; 'The Maori King Movement 1858-1885', Studies of a Small Democracy (edited by RobertChapman and Keith Sinclair), Paul's Book Arcade forthe University of Auckland, 1963.Williams, H. W.: A Dictionary of the Maori Language,6th edition, Revised and Augmented under the Auspicesof the Polynesian Society, R. E. Owen, Government Printer,Wellington, 1957.Williams W. L. & Williams H. W., First Lessons in Maori,Trubner, London, 1862.Wright, Harrison M.: New Zealand 1769-1840: The EarlyYears of Western Contact, Harvard University Press, 1959.
