THE MEASURE~NT OF PHONETIC SIMILARITYPeter LadefogedUniversity of California, Los AngelesThere are many reasc~s for wanting to measure the degree of phoae-tic similarity between members of a group of languages or dialects.
Thepresent study grew out of a research project which was designed to getdata that might have a bearing on some of the practical problems whichexist in Uganda.
In the Southern part of Uganda, where two thirds ofthe nine million people live, there are numerous closely related Bantulanguages or dialects.
The official Ugandan census data lists 15 Bantulanguages.
The current study uses data on these and six others.
Wewanted to assess their phonetic similarity so that there would be dataon which to base decisions on which languages to use for broadcasting(the government currently broadcasts in 8 or 9 of these languages, aswell as in i0 non-Bantu languages), which to use in schools (3 are usedofficially and a further 5 unofficially, but with the connivance of thelocal education authorities), and which for other purposes.One method of obtaining a measure might have been by devising ametric that could be applied to formal comparisons of phonologicaldescriptions of each of these languages.
This method was not attempted,largely because of time limitations.
The data had to be collected andfirst analyses made within a period of one year.
Furthermore, it soonappeared that the sound patterns of nearly all of these languages werevery similar, and the phonological descriptions would have to be eX-tremely detailed before systematic differences became apparent.
Finally,before we could quauti~j, in practical terms, the overall degree of pho-netic similarity between a pair of languages, the phonological descrip-ticas would have to be supported by counts of the frequency of occur-rence of each rule.
A difference between two languages due to, s~,the addition of a rule in one but not the other would be more or lessimportant depending on the number of times in which the rule was involvedin ordinary utterances.The technique which we chose to use instead was to measure thedegree of phonetic similarity in a list of 30 co-,,on words in each lan-guage, all of which were historically cognate forms in at least 16 outof the 20 languages.
The list was a subset of a list of lO0 words whichhad been recorded so that lexico-statistical comparisons might be made.The  complete lists had been recorded in a narrow phonetic transcriptionby the author, u~ing IPA symbols except for the voiced and voicelesspalatal affricates, which Were transcribed j and C in accordancewith the conventions of Ugaudan orthographies.
Long vowels and longconsonants (both of which are phonemic in sone of these languages) weretranscribed with double letters.
Tones were transcribed by acute accents(high), grave accents (low) and circumflex accents (falling); as far asis known these possibilities will account for nearly all the tonal con-trasts that occur in these languages.
Table 1 exemplifies the data fortwo words in each of the 20 languages.The fundamental problem in making phonetic comparisons is how toline up two words, one in one dialect and one,in another, in such a ws~that we can make a valid point by point comparison of all the thingswhich affect phonetic similarity.
In the Bantu languages with which wewere concerned, each noun consists of a stem, and a prefix indicatingthe noun class.
Only the stems were used in these phonetic comparisons.In general, a stem begins with a consonant, C, followed by a vowel, V,and may contain additional alternations of consonants and vowels.
Thecommonest form is CVCV.
Some problems in lining up segments will beconsidered after we have considered how they may be compared.There have been a number of attempts to devise measures of thedegree of phonetic similarity of isolated segments.
Some of these havebeen based on experimental studies showing, for instance, the degree ofconfusability of different segments (Miller and Nicely 1955, Peters 1963,Wickelgren 1965, 1966, Klatt 1968, Greenberg and Jenkins 1962, Mohr andWang 1968); others have been based on more theoretical arguments (Austin1957, Peterson and Harary 1961).
All of these are of interest here, inthat the knowledge of the degree of phonetic similarity between segmentsis a necessary prerequisite to a statement about the degree of phoneticsimilarity of languages as a whole.Some of the studies cited above have discussed the possibility ofquantifying the degree of difference between segments by counting thenumber of differences in their specifications in terms of features.Various ways of specifying segments in terms of features have been sug-gested, the most important being the early distinctive feature systemof Jakobson, Fant, and Halle (1951), its revision by Jakobson and Halle(1956), and the system proposed by Chomsky and Halle (1968).
All thesefeatures sets are intended for classifying the segments which occur inphonemic or phonological contrasts within a language.
But it is by nomeans obvious that the specification of the phonetic level in the waysuggested by Chc~sky and Halle, for instance, is directly related to thespecification of the kind of phonetic similarity measure which is usefulin cross language studies.
Chomsky and Halle were certainly not tryingto produce a phonetic specification of this kind.
Accordingly for thepurposes of the present study an ad hoc set of phonetic features wasused.For the sake of computational simplicity, the phonetic features wereconsidered to be independent binary categories.
This is obviously aninvalid assumption which will be discussed further towards the end ofthis paper.
Because vowels were being compared only with vowels, andconsonants only with consonants, there was no need for features such asconsonantal and vocalic; they would never have contributed anything tothe cross language comparisons.
Furthermore there was no need to usethe same features for both consonants and vowels.
The feature systemwhich was set up was adequate for specifying all the phonetic differenceswhich had been observed sunnng Ugandan Bantu languages and seemed, on thebasis of the experimental studies cited above, likely to be the bestpossible measure of segment similarity within the constraints previouslynoted.Each consonant segment in a Ugandan Bantu language was described asbeing, or not being: (i) a stop; (2) a nasal; (3) a fricative; (4) an.terior -- made in the front of the mouth; (5) alveolar -- made near theteeth ridge; (6) coronal -- made in the centr~ of the mouth; (7) voiced;(8) long; (9) followed by a w-glide; (i0) followed by a y-glide.
Theeasiest way of appreciating the way in which these terms were used isthrough the examples showing the partial characterization of some ~o-nants given in Tables 2 and 3.
A plus sign indicates the presence ~feature, and a minus sign shows its absence.The degree of similarity between segments is exemplified in Ts~ ~.Thus b and d have nine out of the ten points in common; and b =~5Y differ in seven points, and have only three points in cc~amon.In one or two details this measure is not entirely satisfactory.There is no reason why b should be considered to have seven points ~ncow,non with I and only six points in common with r ; and, what i~important, there is no reason why h should have such varying degz1~s ~similarity with b , d , d , d- .
These anomalies occur becauBements were specified in terms of independent binary categories.
Wi~l~classification system of this kind it is impossible to give a specif~ca.-tion of h which is equuZ~ different from all the stop consonants.these inequities probably did not have a significant effect.
Among2,400 segments compared, h occurred only 31 times.In specifying the vowels we stated whether each one was, or was ~.
-(i) high; (2) mid; (3) low; (4) front; (5) central; (6) back; (7) long~(8) high tone; (9) falling tone.
At one time we added the possibilitlr.-(i0) low tone.
But preliminary results showed that this gave too muchimportance to tonal similarity, and it was better to consider low to~eas simply the absence of high or falling tone.
The degree of similark~rin vowels was measured by counting the number of features they had incommon, in the same way as for consonants.Using this measure of the ~\[egree of phonetic similarity, the fea-tures in each segment were compared with the corresponding features inthe corresponding segment in each of 30 words in each of the 20 Bantulanguages.
The 144,000 comparisons involved, the st, ms indicatingthedegree of phonetic similarity of each pair of languages, and the tabula-tions were all done on a cumputer.A number of problems arose in the comparison of specific segments,two of which will be considered here.
Both are due to the constraintof having to compare words segment by segment, a constraint which isnecessary only because of the difficulties of formalizing the compari-sons in any other way.The first was that not all the stems to be compared were the samelength.
For exe~ple, the stem in the word for 'ear' has the form -~or -~wf in many of these languages; but in two languages it is disyllabic,being either - t~yf  or -t~yf.
One might guess that these are the olderforms, and there has been some kind of shortening process in all theother languages.
The solution that was adopted was to add dummy seg-msnts with entirely negative feature values to all the languages havinga monosyllabic form.
This did not affect the similarity measure withinthe monosyllabic group of languages ; and it made the two languages havingdisyllabic forms more similar to the monosyllabic group than they wouldhave been to another language which had a different second syllable.The second problem arose when a phonetic feature such as palatali-zation was realized in one language in a consonant and in another in avowel.
The word for 'crocodile', for example, often has a stem of theform -g66~ ~ but sometimes, instead of the p~latal nasal, the form is-g6fn~.
Note that if these two forms were lined up so that the conso-nants were compared only with the consonants and the vowels only withthe vowels, then there would be differences in both the last vowel andthe last consonant.
Consequently this pair would be counted as lesssimilar than a pair such as -g6~n~ and -g6~.
This is not a desirableresult.
It was avoided by an ad hoc solution in which -in was arbi-trarily specified as a consonant differing in one feature from thepalatal nasal p .
Note also that the problem is not avoided by usingthe same features for consonants and vowels~ it is simply a matter ofthe lining up of the segments to be compared.The ad hoc approaches discussed above are, of course, unsatisfac-tory.
They were adopted simply in the interests of expediency.
Workis continuing on a better formalization of the problem of comparingwhole words, but so far without success.
Meanwhile, a computer programhas been written which compares the features in each segment in eachword in e~ch language with the corresponding features in each word inevery other language.
The sums indicating the degree of phoneticsimilarity of each pair of languages are printed out in matrix form.The results for this particular group of 20 Ugandan languages are notparticularly relevant here~ they are given in detail elsewhere (Criper,Glick,and Ladefoged, forthcoming).
It is sufficient to note that therelationships revealed suggested plausible and interesting groupingsinto dialect clusters.What is of more interest here is the validation of the claim thatthis technique measures phonetic similarity between languages.
Weattempted to do this in two ways, first by assessing local opinionconcerning the degree of similarity between one language and another,and secondly by testing the extent to which people actually understandother languages?
The first of the6e two methods did not produce reliabledata; different local experts gave different figures, and even the ssmeman gave different estimates when the questions were put to him in aslightly different ws~ on different occasions.
The second method pro-duced limited but valid data.
The procedures are described in fullelsewhere (Criper, Glick, and Ladefoged, forthcoming).
We conductedtests with speakers of two different languages.
For each of these lan-guages we used five groups of speakers, and pls~ed them recordings ofstories in their own and four other languages, rotating stories, lan-guages, and groups in a Latin square design.
The group scores inanswering questions about these stories were subjected to an analysisof variance, which showed that there were no significant differencesbetween any of the listening groups, or between auy of the stories ; butthere were very significant differences in the comprehension of thedifferent languages.
We therefore had valid scores on the co~rehensionof two languages relative to four other languages.
These eight scoreswere compared with the degrees of phonetic similarity of the correspondingpairs of languages end, provided one score was left out for reasonsdiscussed below, a high correlation was found (r = 0.98).It is virtually impossible to test the relative comprehension ofall possible pairs of a large number of languages, because of the com-plexities in the experimental design which are necessary.
But it wouldappear that, at least in the case of these Ugandan Bantu languages,valid predictions ms~ be made on the basis of the phonetic similaritymeasure described above.
There are, however, circumstances in whichour predictions would be wrong.
The degree of comprehension of onelanguage to another is not always a reversible relationship~ speakersof a prestige language do not understand a minor l~uguage as wel l  asspeakers of the minor language understand the prestige language.
Itis this discrepancy which accosts  for our having to leave out onescore in order to get a high correlation as described above.
Phoneticsimilarity is a good predictor of intelligibility only if  questionsof prestige are not involved.Finally we must consider w~s in which we could improve themetric used for comparing the phonetic similarity of segments.
Perhapsthe mo~t obvious improvement is to allow for variations in the importanceof different features.
The experimental studies cited above generallyagree in finding that differences in manner of articulation contributemore to perceptual distance than differences in voicing, and both con-tribute more than differences in place of articulation.
Accordinglyfeatures must be assigned different weights.The situation is, however, more complicated.
We must also allowfor the interaction of features.
For example, the experimental studiescited above have shown that there is a greater difference between themembers of the set pa - ta - ka than there is between the members ofthe set b8 - ds - 9.~ ; and the members of the set ma - na - ~8are even less different from one another.
Consequently differences inplace of articulationD however coded, must be made to have less effectwhen the feature voiced is also present; and even less effect when thefeature nasal is also present.It seems that it would also be advisable to allow for non-binaryspecifications of features.
Multivalued feature specifications can bel0treated in either of two wssrs.
In one way, each value is regarded asbeing equally different from all others.
Thus if  the consonantsp , ~ , c , k are assigned the values l, 2, 3, 4 on a feature ofarticulatory place, they wi l l  each be regarded as being c~e point dif-ferent from each other with respect to this feature, assuming it hasbeen given a weight of 1.
Alternatively multivalued specifications can ~be treated as scalar quantities.
I f  this is done and, for example, thevowels i , e , a are specif ied as having the values l, 2, 3 on afeature of vowel height, then e would be counted as one point differentfrom i and a , but i and a would be two points different fromeach other (assuming this feature has a weight of 1).
I f  they had beenspecif ied as l, 2, 7 then e would have been three points from I and aand the~ would have been six points different from each other.The use of independent multivalued feature specifications allowsus to correct an anc~aly which was mentioned above.
It wi l l  be re-membered that using the previous system it was impossible to specify hin a way such that it was equally different from all stop consonants.But if  place of articulation is an independent multivalued feature, andif  h is assigned a value different from any of the stop consonants,then it can be made equally different from all of them.
In other words,this type of specification allows us to formalize within the metric thenotion of an irrelevant feature.A computer program has now been written which compares segmentswhich may be specif ied in terms of weighted, interacting, multivalued,independent or scalar, features.
It is hoped that results of experimentsusing this program wil l  be available for reporting to the conference.\iiReferencesAustin, W.M.
(1957) 'Criteria for phonetic similarity' Language 33,538-~3.Ch~msky, A.N.
and Halle, M. (1968) The Sound Pattern of EnglishHarper and Row, New York, New York.Criper, C., Glick, R., and Ladefoged, P. (forthcoming) Lang~ge inUg~a.Greenberg, J.H.
and Jenkins, J..T. (1964) 'Studies in the psychologicalcorrelates to the sound system of American English' Word 20, No.
2,157-77.Jakobson, R., Fant, G., and Halle, M. (1951) Pr~iminca~es to SpeechAnalysis (sixth printing, 1965) Cambridge, Mass., M.I.T.
Press.Jakobson, R. and Halle, M. (1956) Fundaz~ntaZ8 of LangUage Mouton,The Hague.Klatt, D.H. (1968) 'Structure of confusions in short-term memory betweenEnglish consonants' J. Acoust.
Soc.
Amer.
44, No.
2, 401-7,Miller, G.A.
and Nicely, P.E.
(1955) 'An analysis of perceptusl con-fusions among same English consonants' J. Acoumt.
Soc.
Amer.27, 338-52.Mohr, B. and Wang, W. (1968) 'Perceptual distance and the specificationof phonological features' Phonetica 18, 31-45.Peters, R.W.
(1963) 'Dimensions of perception for consonants' J. Acoust.Soc.
Amer.
35, 1985-9.Peterson, G.E.
and Harary, F. (1961) 'Foundations of phonemic theory' inStructure of Language and its Mathematical Aspects (ed.
R. Jakobson)American Mathematical Society, Providence, Rhode Island.Wickelgren, W.A.
(1965) 'Distinctive features and errors in short-termmemory for English vowels' J. Acoust.
Soc.
Amer.
38, 583-8.Wickelgren, W.A.
(1966) 'Distinctive features snd errors in short-termmemory for English consonants' J. Acoust.
Soc.
Amer.
39, 388-98.Table i: Phonetic transcriptions of the words for 'bee' end 'bone'in 20 Ugandan Bantu languages.
IPA symbols ere used,except that j and c are used for the voiced and voice-less palatal affricates.
Doubled letters denote longsounds.
The stems (which are all that were used in thecmmparisons) are separated from the noun class prefixesby a vertical line.Language 'bee ' 'bone 'Lumas ab aLunyoleLus amiaLugweLugwereLukenyiLus ogaLugandaRuruliRunyoroRut ooroRuhororoRut agwendaRu~rm~oreRuki gaLubwi s iRukonJoRugunguRunyarwaudaRwamban zn jn jnnn jnnmn jnn tsnn jn zk~ hn zn jk f  I |, ' ,h i '  6~ h f,J h ib k f  ~ lb k f  6 |b k f  $ |~ k 1 $ '& c f  ~ l6 k l  ~ 16 k l  16 c l  1b x f  (} 16 k l  ~ 16 k f  ~ I6 k lu c1  ~r lb k i  t~ k l  I~k l  n~ mb~J~ mbk ~J~ mbk uu mbg ~mb~g 6b mbg ,'.
', mb ~9g '~ mb9 ~ mbg ~ f ~g ~ f ~g 6 f ~k ~ mbg ~ f ~g ,~ f ~6 w ~k 6 h ~k ~ h ~9k, u f ~,~ w ~Table 2: The classification of the places of articulation requiredfor the description of Ugaudan Bantu languages.Example Phcaeti c Characteristic Featuresterm anterior alveolar corcmalb labial + - -denta l  + - +d alveolar + + +d- post alveolar + +j prep alat al - +9 velar - -Table 3: The classification of some manners of articulation requiredfor the descriptiom of Ugasdan Bantu languages.Example Phonetic Characteristic Featuresterm nasal stop fricativen nasalnz prenas alfricativend prenasalstopd stopj affri carez fricativeI approximaut?
- ??
?
-- ?
-?
?Table 4: The degree of similarity between some ccasonant segmentsin Ug~d~ B~tu l~ages .~ d d- j g dY dW d: dz z nz I r h s ~ sY ~Yb 9 8 7 7 9 7 7 7 7 6 5 7 6 7 5  ~ 439 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 7 6 8 7 6 6 5 5 4d 9 7 7 9 9 9 9 8 7 9 8 5 7 6 6 5d- 8 8 8 8 8 8 7 6 8 9 6 6 7 5 6j 86668 '  7 6 6 7 6 6 7 5 6g 6 6 6 6 5 4 6 7 8 4 5 3 hdY 8 8 8 7 6 8 7 4 6 5 7 6d w 8 8 7 6 8 7 4 6 5 5 4d: 8 7 6 8 7 4 6 5 5 4dz  9 8 8 7  h 8 7 7 6z 9 9 8 5 9 8 8 7nz 8 7 4 8 7 7 6I ,  9 6 8 7 7 6r 7 7 8 6 7h 6 7 5 6s 9 9 889sY 9
