INSTITUTE OF GENERALLINGUISTICSGroningen, March 1969 .Abstract of a paper for the Third InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics to be held inSanga Sgby I - 4 September 1969 .I.2.3.
(4.Hobbes ~ Calculus of WordsHobbes' (1588-1679) philosophy of language transpires fromhis much quoted adage: "Words are wise men's counters".
(Leviathan ch.
IV, p. 25, in the edition of 1885)His ideas meant the rather revolutionary initiation of thepreliminaries of computational linguistics.Hobbes' pioneering work underwent two influences, namely:A) a doctrinary influence from Nominalism (e.g.
Oocam 1300-1350), which was overlapped byB) the disciplinary impact of contemporary Physics, moreprecisely of the newly established Mechanics (Galileo 156 ~-1641).Leibniz (1646-1715) is Hobbes' main heir; he develops Hobbes'ideas, together with questions of artificial languages andsymbolic systems, into the conception of Representation, whichbecame the nuclear theorem of his philosophy.Frege~(1848-1925) and Russell (born 1872) are the mainparticipants in the last relay that took Hobbes' initiativeto our day.)Prof.Dr.
Pieter A. VerburgHagepr eekkamp 4Gronin~en - The NetherlandsHOBBES' CALCULUS OF WORDSProf.
Dr. P. A. V~.,-bu:g}-\]agep:eekka ~,.
p 4G~onin(',en Tel 05900-~<355~I.
Hobbes' phi losophy of language transpires from his much quotedadage: Words are wise men's counters.
The context gives moreevidence of his deeper intentions; the subsequent text runs asfollows: " .......... , they do but reckon by them; but they arethe money of fools, that value them by the authority of anAristotle, a Cicero, or a Thomas, or any other doctor whatsoever,if but a man.
- 'Subject to names', is whatsoever can enter intoor be considered in an account, and be added one to another tomake a sum, or subtracted one from another and leave a remainder.The Latins called account of money rationes, and accountingratiocinatio; and that which we in bil ls or books of account call' i tems ' ,  they call nomina, that is 'names'; and thence it seemsto proceed, that they extended the word 'ratio' to the faculty Ofreckoning in all other things.
The Greeks have but one word, k6~osfor both 'speech' and 'reason'; not that they thought there was nospeech without reason, but no reasoning without speech: and theact of reasoning they called 'syllogism', which signif ieth summingup of the consequences of one saying to another.
"Hobbes' phi losophy allows for the funct ioning of natural words ascounters - or, as he more often calls it: as marks (in his Latinworks: notae) - only in one respect, namely in the cognition ofreality.
The opposit ion 'cognitive versus communicative use ofwords' is maintained consistently; the fol lowing diagram may serveto make this clear:DIAGRAM I: Hobbes (1588-1679)Invention , Demonstrat ion(Words as ) (Reason) (Words as )(N?t--~Marks) e'~ I or I ( S i~S igns  )Reality(--( ( c~ i t ive ) )  Mind )-'* ( c~un icat ive) )  P'@ Others-2-The inventive application of natural words puts them to an enno-etical - i.e.
intelligence-integrated - and instrumental use,which accurately handled turns out to be a reliable procedure forattaining rational truth.
In so doing Hobbes posited the moststriking and consequential linguistic theory of his time.The sign-use of  natural language is allowed to be weaker; theinterhuman communicative application is not a philosopher'sprivilege, but the everyday practice of ordinary people.
Theyoperate with prudence, which is the common mind as it consists ofmemor~y_~ perception and imagination.
Philosophers, on the otherhand, operate with their calculative reason, which is the countingand reckoning mind.Hobbes elaborates on his calculus of words in the sense that hedemonstrates that the syntactic procedure is of an arithmeticalnature in so far as we add or subtract the notions of which thecommon words are urged to become the bearers.2.
Regarding influences Hobbes underwent from earlier theories andphilosophies, we must first remember that he was an excellentclassicist, who had acquired a thorough knowledge of all theoutstanding authors of Antiquity.
We suspect that Hobbes'opposition 'inventio versus demonstratio', is related to Plato'sconcept of the dual function of language, namely diakrinein towardsthings, didaskein towards fellow men.There is little basis for thinking of Hobbes as an Aristotelian.In the domain of language-theory and philosophical grammar, the~iddle Ages had yielded a realist grammar, largely under theinfluence of Aristotle's theories.
The so-called GrammaticaSpeculativa did not appeal to Hobbes and only the fact that Leibniz,who continued and improved on Hobbes' work, reintroduced thistheory, makes it worth mentioning at all.-3-The main trends Hobbes' l inguistic phi losophy had to cope with,were more topical.
We can distinguish a doctrinar~ and adiscipl inary trend.A.
Nominal ism had been strong and dominating since Ockham(1300-1350).
Nominalist epistemology had taken the fol lowingbasic form:DIAGRAM II: Nominal ismReal i ty  (on ly )  ( (( Intellectus,individua) ) (-- Words, nominal--  ( conceptus, intentioTo the nominalist, the direct intellectual or conceptualapproach to real i ty is primary.
From this approach he learnsthat real ity consists of individua.
This immediate inventiveintel lection is fundamental and the insertion of words into itis in a way redundant and possibly even misleading since manywords stand for nonexistent generalities; rel iable nomina onlyrefer to indivi~ua.
What Hobbes evidently learned fromnominalist doctrine, was the intermediary role language couldplay as a means, as a tool in inventive thought - anepistemological model, which, however, he did not take overalong with the critical and suspicious attitude towardslanguage inherent in the nominalist view.
For that matter, acritical att itude towards common language also characterizedthe pol it ic ian and philosopher whom Hobbes served as asecretary~ namely Francis Bacon (1561-1626).
Well-known arethe latter's warnings against the pitfal ls forming a constantdanger for those who make too negligent a use of words.
His'idola fori' especially, focused attention on l inea l  errorsand inconsistencies.B.
A much stronger impact on Hobbes' p~ilosophy came fromMechanics, the newly established sub-discipline of Physics,founded by Gali leo and olosely related to the new ideas onmotion of contemporary astronomers like Kepler.
The scientif icnature of Mechanics is in this case of great importance.-4-Inventors and designers of all kinds of machines were numerousin the Quattrocento and Cinquecento - one of them the greatartist Leonardo da Vinci (1452-1519).
Some published their works,though in the vernacular, and Galileo was acquainted with suchwritings.
In Galileo this tradition of practical oraftmanshi pand technical skill merges with the academic tradition of theAristotelian philosophy of nature.
In other words: The practicalmanipulation of arithmetical and geometrical knowledge asacquired in the scholastic quadrivium on the one hand, andtheories about natural motion that were radically non-mathematicaland linked up with the pseudo-explanation of a transition frompotentiality to actuality on the other hand, united in Galileo.His great achievement, which in his era places him in thecategory of outstanding scholars and inventive minds like Planck,de Broglie, Einstein and Heisenberg in our era, was hisapplication of mathematics to physical research, more precisely,his analysis of macroph~sical motion by means of countin~ andmeasurin6 (As a verys imple but most significant example wepoint to the so-called parallelogram of forces).Galileo himself was highly conscious of the importance of hisinnovation and the perspectives it opened up.
This is evidencedby statements like the following: "The book of nature is writtenin an alphabe~ of triangles, squares, parallelograms, circles,etc."
Kepler had already said that the 'caelestic machina' wasno__~t 'instar divini animalis 2 sed instar horolo~ii' and Galileooften expressed himself in similar terms, especially in hisfamous adage: 'universum horolo~ium est'.The following diagram represents Galileo's position:DIAGRAM III: Galileo (1564-1641)Physics ) ( Means: ) ( 'intelletto,(Motion in Astronomy ) ~--~ (Mathematical) (---q ( ~ 'and Mechanics) ) ( Symbols ) ((Reason)-5-The transition to a philosophical theory like that of Hobbes wasfacil itated because Galileo himself led the way by talking aboutthe Universe as a whole instead of about Physics as the objectof his science.The transition from artificial mathematical symbolism to a moregeneral concept of natural language was also expedited by Galileohimself already comparing cyphers and figures to an alphabet.H.obbes' extrapolation from Physics to Universe and theSubstitution of natural language words for mathematical s~mbclscan be represented as follows:Diagram IV: from Galileo to HobbesGalileo : Physics4---- Symbols4---- Intellectgobbes : Reality4---  Words ~ ReasonThis part of Hobbes' conception then is the left half (Invention)of Diagram I.The inventive use of words takes the form of a calculus.
Initself the embedding of words as tools in the cognitive processcorresponds to the nominalist 'ennoesis', i.e.
inclusion intothinking, of nomina.
Yet there is a decisive difference inevaluation: for the nominalist the use of words is firstlyoptional and secondly unreliable and full of uncertainty.
ForHobbes, however, the computational use of natural words isfirstly necessary to obtain rational, i.e.
true insights, andsecondly, provided the calculation is performed accurately,fully certain and reliable.
The calculation can only succeed ifperformed by philosophers, i.e.
rationalist philosophers, - the"wise men" of his above quoted adage.tFor the calculative use of words Hobbes introduces the Latinterm ratiooinari, i.e.
reasoning and  reckoning in one!
In hisview it consists of addition and subtraction, in short, of-6-arithmetical operations.
He adduces all manner of evidence,for example that the Laticn ratio - a~d come to that theGreek loges too - had alwaFs properly signified reokonlmg,counting, calculating, etc.
; further, that 'syllogism'properly means addition, summing up, etc.So Hobbes' calculus with words corresponds to grammar orsyntax in natural language, conceived of as an operationwith words; it may be mentiomsd that in this view thed~namic and functional character of syntax as a kind oftechnical procedure is retained - this in contradistinctionto its fate in Leibniz' philosophy.
Natural words are, forphilosophers, usable as counters, i.e.
as premeditatedartificial symbols.
There is more to this mark/nora roleimparted to natural signs.
As a matter of fact, theirsymbolic character is, in Hobbes' opinion, their essentialnature, right from the beginning of creation.
Adam inventedwords ex arbitrio!
This theorem subsumes the concept ofnatural language and its units under that of artificialsymbolism.
We must hold against this thesis that thedrawing up of ar4y artificial symbolism is only possiblebecause of our human endowedness with a lingual faculty.Any system of symbols is a posteriori to natural "linguality"and only possible because of the a priori and innate humanlanguage faculty.
Hobbes' subsumption is like the statement:Look how that mother resembles her daughter!3.
LEIBNIZ - and not Spinoza or Locke - accepted and digestedthe inheritance of Hobbes' philosophy of language.
Leibnizwas a character averse to any sort of quarrel, dispute,controversy, contrast, opposition, and conflict in any form.-7-In religion, politics, science and phi losophy he endeav-cured to achieve harmony by stressing mutualities, agree-ments, similarities, gradualities, shading transition andso on.
Let me examine the circumstances in which Leibnizconceived of his mathematical phi losophy of representation.~.
Hcbbes began publ ishing as early as 1642 and continuedunti l  the year of his death, 1679.
In 1668 "An essay towardsa real character and a philosophical language" by J.Wilkinsappeared in London.
It is not fortuitous that the seven-teenth century in part icular was very ferti le with regardto art i f icial  language projects.
The vital point is thatthese artefacts are not intended to be learned as aneasier means of interhuman communication - Hobbes' demon-strative use of language!
- but, quite positively~ as"the distinct expression of all things a~ notions" - i.e.as an inventive language "which may l ikewise be styledphilosophical,  rational and universal" as well.
For Leibnizthe numerous artif icial language projects bridged the gap -see Diagram IV - between Hobbes' exact, symbolic-notative,computational calculative and artif icial appl ication of anatural but unfit  material, namely natural words of anatural vernacular, and the establishment of an a priori,purely artif icial system of symbols, i.e.
mostly writtencharacters or figures.
In the inventory of problems whichLeibniz encountered in the second half of the century, thenumerous newly-constructed artif icial languages proved tobe very important for his elaboration of Hobbes' ini-tiatives.B.
Leibniz found that on the side of the demonstrativenatural signs in interhuman discourse it was possible tooperate calculat ively as well~ This insight rendered Hcbbes'-8-functional opposit ion of inventive mark versus demonstrativesign essential ly invalid.
We see this where Leibniz expectsin the case of interhuman disputes about matters of ethicsor rel igion to bring about a solution through mathemat-ically stric~ and rationally convincing arguments; in suchcases, claims Leibniz, we can say: Calculons!The fact that Invention and Demonstration coincide is alsosignificant in that the "others", i.e.
fellow-men, (righthand side of Diagram I) now also belong to real ity (lefthand side of Diagram I).
If with Leibniz we further assumethat non-human plus human reality together form a hugecollection of units - in his terminology 'monads' - it isclear that e~ch human, rational monad emits spontaneoussignals to other monads.
Consequently this process must bereciprocal and any human monad must operate at once as atransmitter and a receiver.
This means that Leibniz minglesthe originally nomina\]ist active mind theory with a passivemind coucept (tabula rasa) similar to that of the realist~rammatica speculativa, which, il~deed, he reintroduces.~.
And he does not even stop here.
Towards the end of hisl~fe Leibniz taught that thei.e is no question of anyimpact on the monads from outside, for this would interferewith the pre-establ ished progress of world history.
Monadshave no windows.
Their existence is representation.
Thefol lowing image, naturally not Leibniz' own~ ma~ serve toi l lustrate this point.
The monads resemble a number ofcinemas, completely shut off from outside, where day andnight the same endless film is being shown with perfectsynchronization.
The only variation possible is ~hen themonad is asleep and the light being, as it were, somewhatweaker, i l lumination and clarity are reduced.
The Leibniz-Jan idea of representation reaches Von Humboldt via Wolff.-9-~.
Hobbes based the certainty that he would obtain trueand rel iable results from his reasoning on the accuracyand correctness of the computational procedure.
Hiscalculus with words is analogous to the intralingaaloperations with words that we call syntactic or grammaticalprocedure.
IIobbes was only an arithmetician, and a poorone at that.
Leibniz was a geometer as well, i.e.
an all-round mathematician, and a bri l l iant one too.
Hobbescontinues to see grammar as a procedure, a computational,an arithmetical procedure, but nevertheless a process.
Theo lder  Leibniz eventual ly arrives at a static view of theworld and a geometrical ly conceived model of grammar.
Anylanguage, whether natural or artificial, any mathematicalsymbolism, mirrors in its own system the structure of the?
universe, the order of the world; and this correspondenceis fundamentum veritatis, ths very basis of truth.
LsibrJiz'static paral lel ism replaces Hobbes' dynamic-calculat iveapproach, which strives for the truth.
For Leibniz, thetruth is present a priori, in the deep structure, the"grammaire rationelle et universel le" of any sign- orsymbolsystem, except that in a, rather irrational, naturallanguage it may be somewhat obscured.
To demonstrate thishe uses a geometrical comparison: if for example, a circlewith inscribed figures is viewed from a point not alongits vertical axis, it will appear oval, but the innerorder and proportions will be preserved in spite of thedistortion.In the latter case there is only less "clarity" because ofthe shift in "point de rue" but the fundamental adequacyand truth is maintained.-10-4.
We wanted to confine ourselves to describing and histor-ically locating Hobbes' arithmetical philosophy of language.And we must confine ourselves to merely sketching Leibniz'role as Hobbes' heir and successor.
Just as it may happenin architecture that the initiator of a new style is out-stripped by a successor, so, in language philosophy,Leibniz overshadows Hobbes.
In linguistics proper Leibnizinfluenced the founder of the discipline, Bopp, thoughindirectly, through Wolff; in mathematics he influencedFrege, who wanted to draft a Leibnizian "Begriffssohrift";in philosophy and mathematical logic he influenced Russellin the farter's attempt to create an ideal language, whichhe recommended as the goal of the philosophy of language.
"The'ideal language' would satisfy perfectly the intentionsto make the relation of 'picturing' the sole essentialbasis of symbolism ..... Russell .... is unwilling to abandonthe notion that language must "correspond" to the "facts",through one-to-one correlation of elements and identity oflogical structure."
(Black)It has been said that the failure of Machine Translationwas due to the absence of an adequate philosophy oflanguage; I feel inclined to agree.
Such a philosophy isstill in its infancy and it cannot be successful withoutscanning the past for its origins.Prof.
Dr.Pieter A. VerburgHagepreekkamp 4 - Gronin~enThe Netherlands
