A NEW APPROACH TO SYNTAXByB.
J. Dasher, Georgia Institute of TechnologyThis paper describes a new method for syntactic analysis ofEnglish.
Instead of the conventional subject-predicate structureas a basis for analysis, elementary sentence patterns are used.
Itis observed that there are two basic sentence formats in English.One, using a transitive verb, consists of the sequence noun, verb,noun, noun.
The other, using an intransitive verb, consists of thesequence nou_.._nn, verb, adjective, noun.
In each of these basic forms,syntax is specified by the word order.
Since there are 64 ways toarrange four words when they are taken one, two, three, and four ata time, there are 12B elementary or cannonical sentences to be stud-ied.
The central goal of analysis is to determine the particularc annonical sentence corresponding to a given statement.In order to show how any sentence can be reduced to its basicformat, certain essentially algebraic operations are proposed, to-gether with certain rules for transforming one structure into another.Conversely, the same rules may be used to construct a generative gram-mar that permits a cannonical sentence to be expanded to an equiva-lent form in accord with prescribed requirements.
In as much as theoperations are essentially algebraic, the method is very advantageousfor computer use.Through the use of various devices, word order can be changedwithout changing essential syntax.
Also, the same basic structurescan be used to express a variety of semantic relationships.
For ex-ample, the two sentences, "Give the book to John" and "Save the bookfor John", have the same structure.
The difference between the t__o_oand fo___~r relationship is semantic rather than grammatical.
Moreover,the two statements, "Give John the money" and "Give the money toJohn", express the same relationship between~ive,  Joh____~n, and money,and it would be the same if an inflected form for Joh_.__~n were used in-stead of the preposition, or if some other syntactic label were used.Thus, it should be possible to begin with a statement in one language,find its corresponding cannonical sentence, transform this cannonicalsentence into a corresponding cannonical sentence in a new language,and then reconstruct the statement in the new language.
Thus, themethod is advantageous for machine translation.This paper describes the fund~enta l  concepts of the scheme andillustrates its potential.
Many details remain to be supplied inorder to obtain a working system.
