N EXUSA LINGUISTIC TECHNIQUEFORP RECOORDINAT IONR.
A. BensonConvair Division of General DynamicsGraduate StudentSan Diego State CollegeSan Diego, CMiforniaAbstractA method for automatical ly  precoordinat ing index te rms was devised toform combinat ions of te rms  which are  s tored as subject  headings.
A compu-ter  p rogram accepts l i s ts  of auto- indexed te rms and by applying l inguist icand sequence rules combines appropr iate te rms ,  thereby effecting improvedsearchabi l i ty  of an information storage and retr ieval  sys tem.A ser ious  fal l ing ex ists  in many indexing sys tems in that index te rmsauthor ized for use  are  too genera l  for use  by technical ly-knowledgeablesearchers .
A search  conducted us ing these  te rms frequently produces toomany documents not speci f ical ly related to the users '  requ i rements .
Anindexing method using the language in which the document was wr i t ten cor -rects  this  fai l ing, but e l iminates the general i ty  of the prev ious  approach.
Acompromise  between indexing general i ty  and specif ic i ty is  offered by NEXUSprecoord inat ion which combines specif ic  te rms  into sub ject -headings ,  e l imi -nating improper  coordination of te rms  when match ing search  requ i rementswith document te rm sets .NEXUS examines  the suffix morpheme of each input te rm and determineswhether  or not the te rm should be a member  of an index te rm combinat ionor  preeoordinat ion.
If insuff ic ient evidence is  p resent  o make  such adetermination, a sequence rule goes into effect which combines terms basedon their  syntax.A variety of corpora was used to test and develop the NEXUS precoordina-tot.
Data bases consisting of legal information, computer program descr ip-tions and NASA l inear tape system documentation were used.
More varietywas present  in the NASA documents which made the results of the applicationof NEXUS to this collection more  significant han the others.
Also, a fullerbattery of rules was developed by this time, increasing the power of the pro -gram.SummaryNEXUS is a research project which is concerned with input process ingof natural language for information retr ieval.The computer  program used to do this task consists of l inguistic rulesthat operate on the suffix portions of printed words, and the order  of thesewords as they appear in a sentence.NEXUS accepts l ists of index terms that have resulted from the applica-tion of an auto-indexer program to titles and abstracts.
Thcsc term l istsare  processed by NICKUS in order  to form combinations of terms which areJstored as subject headings.
Such subject headings or  precoordinations aidthe searcher  in finding information when they are used in a bibliographicprintout.
As opposed to coordinate-indexed printouts, consisting of l istsof individual te rms and the accession umbers of the source documents,those printouts of NEXUS-processed terms contain word combinations thathave been precoordinated, saving time and increasing accuracy for thesearcher .It must  be s t ressed  that NEXUS operates on general rules.
There areoccur rences  in language that are not covetable by this method.
Storage byindividual terms is effected in conjunction wRh NEXUS so that nothing ismissed because of rule exceptions.Comparison tests have been run using the full NEXUS program,  a part ialapplication of the program using sequence rules (SEQS), and human analysisof the same data.
Although falling short  of human analysis in some respects(except for consistency), the NEXUS approach is more effective than SEQSin producing effective combinations.Although some suggestions arc made for applying this technique alongwith a possible output format for a bibliographic application, the chief valueof this effort, however, has been to further study those aspects of languagethat are amenable to computerized analysis for the purpose of improving in-put and output functions in information retr ieval.SECTION 1IntroductionOf all the various operations of an information retr ieval  system, the in-put function is the most  important.
The decision of what to s tore  to bestrepresent  the contents of a document involves predicting to a degree howthis representation will be looked for by a user .
If a user  is not conversantwith a subject he must be led into it by famil iar,  more general routes.
If auser  is conversant with a subject and is perhaps a contributor to its l i tera-ture himself  he will be after specific details which he will request,  p re fer -ably in the language of his discipline.
This dichotomy of users  probablyexists, to some extent, in any information retr ieval situation, it is the in-tent of such research as NEXUS to help alleviate this paradox by permittingaccess to information by both general and specific indexing accomplished bymachine.The indexing process  is discussed in this paper starting at the point whereit f i rs t  becomes necessary.
The qualifications for an expert indexer are thenenumerated, and the activity of the indexer is examined.
Generalized andspecif ic indexing are compared and, finally, a suggestion is made for con-vett ing the results  of specific indexing into generalized subject headings,whiei~ is the purpose of the NEXUS programs.Operational tests have been conducted uring the stages of developingthis approach, and a variety of data was used to allow testing across differ-ent types of information.Comparison tests were made using the full set of NEXUS rules vs. onlythe sequence rule, SEQS.
The intent was to find out how more effective theprogram works using suffixal morphemes to combine te rms than to merelyconnect words that follow one another in sequence.The NEXUS-generated subject headings can be used in bibliographicpr intouts to aid in locating desired information.
Combinations of te rms pre -pared in this way avoid the occurrence of incorrect  coordinations of te rmswhich somet imes happens when individual te rms are coordinated by the user .SECTION 2Indexing for  Information RetrievalAn individual is faced with the prospect  of maintaining a growing col lec-tion of documentation.
The documents in this collection contain informationthat will answer  frequently asked questions.
When the collection consists of afew documents, this individual can read them all and be prepared to answerthese questions.
But, as the amount of documeqts increases,  he will be forcedto find some method of recording clues to the information found in each docu-ment.
These clues will have to be stored separately from the documents,on a l ist or  perhaps on file cards,  so that the maintainer of the documentscan scan them easily.
When he is asked a question, instead of trying toremember  which document or documents have the answer,  he goes to hisl ist  of clues, and then selects the documents from the collection.
The num-ber  assigned to each group of clues is the same as the number on the docu-ment.Let us assume that most  or even all of the questions asked of this indi-vidual are predictable.
He is then in the fortunate posit ion of being able tolook for specific answers to specific questions as he records the clues f romeach incoming document.
He can then arrange the l ist of clues in whateverorder  is most  convenient for him.
He can arrange the clues by frequency ofquestions asked, he can classify the clues by hierarchical  relationship, bychronology or by any other convenient method that might best or most  quicklyanswer these stock questions.In some very fortunate cases,  a collection of documentation consists ofdocuments that have been specifically designed to answer questions.
Eachdocument is constructed with a consistent number of information or  data blocksand the contents of these blocks vary to a predictable degree.
The recordingof information clues (we may as well now refer  to this function as indexing)then becomes a simple task.Collections of technical papers ,  the most common type of informationcollections, do not lend themselves to s imi lar  handling.
One can predictonly to a very small  degree, what questions will be asked of such a collection.Therefore,  the indexer must  select clues from each document based on hisspeculation of what questions will be asked in the future.
It would seem thatwearenow getting a vague picture of what an indexer looks like.
He is ableto pick up any highly technical paper,  most  of which are at the forefront oftheir  disciplines (otherwise why should they be publ ished?
),  to understandthe content of this document so expertly that he can predict the questions thatwill  be asked and then answered  by this  document,  and then to record thec lues  to i ts  contents in such a manner  that they will lead a searcher  direct lyto this  segment  of recorded knowledge at some unknown future date.
Thisas tute  person  must  cer ta in ly  possess  knowlege equivalent o advanced egreelevel  in numerous  c ient i f ic  d isc ip l ines,  he must  have working knowledge ofmany  of the wor ld 's  languages,  sure ly  he must  possess  an advanced egree inL ib rary  Science {more popular  - Information Science), and the knowledge ofp ract ica l  economics  to such an extent that he can subs is t  comfortably on sixto seven thousand a year  (the going rate for indexers) .
A rmed with such afo rmidab le  background this individual would render  better  serv ice,  at leastto h imse l f ,  by doing the research  and writ ing the paper  h imsel f .Obviously, the indexing function must  be per fo rmed by someone lessqual i f ied than the individual descr ibed above.In a normal  l ib rary  a tmosphere ,  the area  usual ly  given responsib i l i tyfor  the important  endeavor  of mainta in ing documentat ion col lect ions,  thereis  a t radit ional  way to process  such mater ia l .
Indexing is per fo rmed usingsuch  aids as sub ject -heading l ists  or thesaur i .
The documenta l i s t / l i b ra r ianuse  of the te rm,  thesaurus ,  re fers  to a d ic t ionary -order  l ist  of approved in-dexing te rms,  s imi la r  to a sub ject -heading l ist .The indexer ,  in the above-ment ioned nv i ronment ,  scans  a document,t r ies  to f igure it  out the best  he can, and then se lects  te rms  f rom theseapproved l i s ts  that he thinks best  descr ibe  the document.
Somet imes thisworks ,  somet imes  not.
After  all, the indexer  cannot be expected to beexper t  in al l  technical  f ields.
Anyway, the resul t ing te rms that a re  the c luesto the document ' s  content a re  genera l i zat ions  of this content.
It goes withoutsay ing,  ff a researcher  is  wr i t ing about a new usage of holography in patho-logical x - ray  appl icat ions,  th is  document sure ly  has someth ing to do withphotographic  techniques in medic ine.
If holography i s  not an approved te rm,it will eventually be added to the l ist when approved.
In the meantime, it can-not be used, of course.
But the term, x-ray,  has been around long enough tobe acceptable, and the searcher  can hunt around at a higher (more general)level until he locates the document.The point is, such approved term l ists are designed to aid the partial lyknowledgeable ibrary user  (or l ibrary worker) who does not know the techni-cal vocabularies of special disciplines well enough to use them intelligently.The use of generalized terms s tems also from the attempt, on the part  ofl ibrar ians,  to store their reading mater ials in related clumps within al ibrary.
This is understandable in a public l ibrary or  even in a book col lec-tion of a technical ibrary.
A user  wants a book on computer programming,so he goes to the section of books that contains programming books.
How-ever, if he wants to know the latest published research on a part icu lar  p ro -gramming technique he will find it in document or  journal article form.
Hewill know, in his own terminology, what he wants at a considerably morespecific level than "computer p rogramming, "  or say, than the approvedL ibrary of Congress ubject heading, "Electronic digital computers - P ro -gramming.
"Why not use the te rms the researcher  uses?
Well, they are not con-trolled, you might say.
A term might be in vogue today that is turned intosomething else tomorrow.
You will clutter up your l ist of document clues(index) with variat ions of the same term.
You may find some words thatmean the same thing.
The truth of the matter  is, that the actual synonym isnot as common as you might think.
Slight variat ions of meaning exist inmany words that seem to be synonymous with others.
These slight var ia -t ions  may turn out to be highly significant in many contexts.
If the words ofactual technical jargon are used, some later editing may be in order ,  it istrue, due to the high volatility of language in fast-moving technology, butthe documents will be accessible to people who know this language, withouttranslation for the benefit of the middle-man.The knowledgeable s archer  knows this language.
He uses it every day,and keeps up with its variations.
The collection of documents i for his bene-fit, not for the convenience of the l ibrary worker.What impact does all this have on documentation ?
And specifically onindexing ?Let us assume, for just a minute, that we do not have a crew of super-intelligent people for indexers.
Instead, we have a few competent clericalworkers well-enough educated to spell words properly.
They can't do foreignlanguages, so let us,  necessar i ly ,  eliminate those documents for the present.But they can read tit les; they know an author from a date; they can identify anabstract.
Within the latter, they are able to tell what words are being usedto descr ibe some esoteric subject although they are unable to define themeanings of those words.If these people know enough to get them this far, they can eliminate thefunction words (is, an, the, but, etc. )
from the content words (holography,pathology, thorax, etc.
), copy down these latter content words and, in effect,perform indexing.
This is indexing at the specific, not the general evel.To general ize these terms one would have to know that holography is relatedto photography, pathology is related to medicine, thorax is related to anatomy,and so on.
We don't expect hat much sophistication from our clerical workers.We real ly can't afford to pay for that much knowledge.
Actually, we don't wantthem to know that much.
It could bias their indexing.This is exactly the way the KARDIAK 1 automated bibliography on art i -ficial heart  research was produced.
Now that it has been released (almostthree years  ago) and has received some acclaim throughout the world of medi-cal research  (e. g .
,  Harvard Medical School, National L ibrary of Medicine,National Institutes of Health, etc.
), we in Technical Data Systems (betterknown as IS&R), the compilers of this useful work, are still unable to useit!
Why?
Because we are not, nor should we be, conversant with the te rmi -nology used to index it.
We just don't know that much about the technicalspecialty of cardiac medicine.
When we are asked to demonstrate howKARDIAK works,  we must  use a standard search of two terms;  " t~ste in"and "Anomaly."
During the production of this, Dr. Shafer, Artificial HeartStudy Program leader, introduced us to Dr. Grey, an eminent cardiacspecial ist f rom India.
At this point, KARDIAK was 50% compiled.
We hadabout a thousand entries and had produced an inter im version.
Dr. Greywas asked by Dr. Sharer to pose a question to this half-KARDIAK.
Hethought for a moment and then asked us if we had anything in the bibliographyon "Ebste in 's  anomaly."
For  all we knew of this phenomenon, it could aswell have been "EinsteinVs anachrony. "
KARDIAK was queried with theseterms,  however, and produced a sufficient quantity of answers,  to our re -lief and to the pleasant surpr i se  of Dr. Grey.
(He later  asked for  copies.
)Anyway, we now use this same query as a test query of the system, becausewe don't have the sophistication to ask anything else.We should add, however, for just ice's sake, that if the KARDIAK wereon "Information Science" instead of "Cardiac Medicine", the situation wouldsurely be reversed.The thesis,  so far,  has hopefully convinced the reader  that it is possibleto index highly technical collections cheaply and accurately without super -intelligent, universal  men wielding the indexer's pencil.
But we are stil lfaced with the problem of some cross,  discipline communication.
We cannotquery a collection on "Cardiac Medicine", and they cannot query a collectionon "Information Science. "
Now then, how do we go about communicating toone another through the medium of a general - information collection?
Thati s ,  how do we do this without getting too general and paying the pr ice for thisgeneral i ty?KARDIAK, once again, has giver us a clue to how this may be done.As we were feeding KARDIAK the te rms selected by our c lerk/ indexer,some of these te rms kept recurr ing;  recurr ing with such frequency that ourcomputer  p rogram could not hold them all in storage.
That is, there wasnot enough room set aside to hold all the document numbers  with which thesete rms were  associated.
The number of these terms was small,  only sevenin all, but the number of documents that used these seven terms was exten-sive.
Because of the physical impossibl ity of storing all these documentnumbers ,  these terms were rejected for storage.
Oddly enough, perhapsserendipitously enough, if you will, these were the te rms that general lydescr ibed the collection:Artif icialHeartCardiacValveExtracorporealBloodCirculationWe have here, then, the general te rms to describe the KARDIAK col lec-tion, and we have them delivered automatically.
If we were to decide thatwe must  have subject headings to communicate in a general fashion to otherless knowledgeable searchers ,  in this case to ourselves,  these are doubt-less  the best candidates.
Just for practice, let'~ make subject headings outof this l ist:Artif icial HeartCardiac Valve10Extracorporeal  Blood Circulation.We don't need an approved list of te rms.
We couldn't have found one,nor  known how to use one, if we had had one.
It has been said, "Let thedocuments themselves generate their own terms.
,,2 One step further,  letthe te rms rejected because of over-frequency be combined as subject-headings.
These combinations can then be used as general descr iptors  forthe part icular  collection.Tile KARDIAK is a closed collection.
That is,  it was produced for aspecific purpose, it served its purpose, and it is now a static piece of docu-mentation history.
Of course, it can always be picked up at a later date andbe added to; but we don't foresee this happening at the present  ime.
Thisis all leading up to the fact that there is any amount of manipulation one canper form on a static collection that cannot be done on a growing one.
When acollection is constantly being added to, one must f igure out away to main-tain control of it as it develops.
If the collection is specialized enough, theterm rejection factor, mentioned above, will stil l appear.
But, as the col-lection grows, we certainly must  increase our storage capacity of the ratio ofdocument numbers to terms.
This ratio probably remains  the same, but wecantt say so for sure unless we do some research on it.
This is an area forfurther work with which we are not principally concerned in this report.What wewould now like to suggest is an inter im feature: an aid to in-dexing and searching that is in between a free, specific, individual key wordsystem and a generalized, controlled subject-heading system.
We havealready shown an almost algorithmic way of doing indexing.
The clericalworker identifies a title and an abstract,  and separates content words fromfunction words.
The function words are then copied down, or  in the case ofKARDIAK, are keypunched irectly on punched paper tape.
I t 's  easy to11imagine a macMne doing essential ly the same operation, and this is what wehave done.A program was written s imi lar  to one described in previous research 3which, using a function word deletion list, scans lines of text and records thecontent words that are  in the original syntactical order of the text.
Such amethod resembles  the well-known KWIC indexing system.
These remainingcontent words can be used as index terms for searching the collection on aspecific level.
They can be stored on tape with each term added to pre -viously stored usages of the term by recording the document number underthat term.
Or, in the case of a f i r s t - t ime usage of a term,  a new entry ontape is made.
Now, so far, this is essential ly what was done by the clericalworker .
But now we have avoided her occasional human er rors ,  and sinceher  human judgment was previously discouraged we have lost very little, andhave gained a great deal in speed and accuracy.At this point, let 's  switch over to the searching function.
The searcherknows the te rms he is looking for, if he knows the technical specialty con-cerned.
His query will be couched in these same terms.
Therefore, heproceeds in his search of the collection by combining te rms and looking forcoordinating document numbers .
(This follows no matter  if he is doing itmanually, such as with KARDIAK, or whether a computer search is made.
)One element is miss ing,  however, and that is syntax.
He must p resumethat the hits he comes up with are of terms arranged in the same syntact i -cal o rder  as his search query.
In other words,  he is attempting to regen-erate  sentence order .
This is successful  much of the t ime, but then againthere are  t imes that it doesn't  work.If we had our cler ical  worker  again, we could show her  some lines oftext and ask her to combine words that bear  relationship to one another.
Ifshe did a good job of making combinations, some of this miss ing syntax12would be recovered.
Let's fake a title, for example: "Applications of Lin-guistic Experiments to the Industrial Community. "
Our clerk would prob-ably make the following combinations:"Applications" (not combined)"Linguistic Experiments" (combined)"Industrial Community" (combined).These term combinations aid in restoring syntax, to some degree, wherethe free terms might be recalled out of order; for example, something like"Linguistic Community" or "hflustrial Experiments" or "Community Experi-ments, " all of which are entirely misleading in regard to the actual meaningof the title.
Now, for the clerk to do term combining correctly, she uses somesimple rules.
The most obvious rule is that of sequence.
There are otherrules used that are not so obvious, even to her, because she may not know sheis using them.
These rules have to do with linguistics, specifically suffixalmorph(~logy.
This is to say that the suffixal morphemes ofthe words in thistitle are giving her clues about he relationship of one word to another.
Inother words, the presence ofone of a group of particles at the end of a contentword in a line of text will give a clue to its relationship to the next content word.Of course, the next word in sequence must be examined for the presence ofafinal particle, as well.
Let's take "linguistic experiments" as an example.The two words are in sequence in the text line, even though this is not anabsolute indication that they should be combined.
The suffixal morpheme of"linguistic" is "-ic, " an adjectival ending.
And since there is no punctuationfollowing "-ic," this indicates the proximity of some next entity to be modi-fied, some noun form coming up.
In our example it is "experiments."
But,if the suffixal morpheme of"experiments" were "-al" instead of "-s, " andthere is still no following punctuation, we would have a clue that we don't yet13have a noun form to be modified.
We have two adjectives tacking up, and thenext following word may be the noun form we have been waiting for.
However,the " - s "  morpheme is most  likely acceptable nough as a noun plural ending,and the combination "linguistic experiments" is a valid one.The application of such rules by our clerical worker is automatic becauseshe does all these operations following the rules that are built into her knowledgeof the language.
She might possibly be able to explain the process but it is soob~ous  and natural to her that she might not be able to.To do this function by machine ia another matter.
We must  not only ex-plain the process ,  but we must also instruct he computer precisely what to doand in what order  to do it.
And also, unfortunately, we must  put up whichoccur rences  of letter construct ions that look like a legitimate suffixal morpheme,such as the plural " - s " ,  but are actually not; constructions which would beimmediately obvious to our clerical worker.Succeeding sections of this report  will outline the method used (NEXUS) toprecoordinate te rms during the automatic indexing process .All p rogramming of this research task was accomplished by James C. Mooreand G. E. Sullivan, of Department 591-0, in FORTRAN lI.
The computer usedwas the CDC 160G.SECTION 3NEXUS IThe inspirat ion for NEXUS came from a part icular  collection compiled byIS&R on legal l i terature.The indexing was done by an individual highly trained in law but who hadnever  done any previous indexing.
His indexing consistency, to begin with, wassl ightly errat ic  in that he occasionally repeated te rms in bound form that he hadalready noted down in f ree form.
However, as he progressed  through the col lec-tion of 1742 documents his indexing became more stabilized.14Each document was given an accession umber.
The index terms,usually six or  seven of them, were l isted under the number.
The indexerwanted retr ieval by date at some future time, so he used the year the docu-ment was published as an index term in every case.The output of this project was a KARDIAK-type (or "busted.
book", asit is known in IS&R) manual index, which was produced by computer.
Thete rms were sorted alphabetically and the document numbers  of the documentsindexed by the term listed beneath each term in ascending order.Precoordination of these terms would have aided the searcher ,  in theway pre~ous ly  indicated, as a t ime-saver  and a syntax safeguard.
Thiswould have prevented the searcher  from erroneously hooking together te rmsthat actually were not related.To begin with, the unsorted sets of index te rms were used as input toNEXUS.
NEXUS was f i rst  put together in a very rudimentary form.
Thedates were isolated and the cr i ter ia  for  precoordination were  based on(1) sequence, (2) "-ed" suffixal morpheme in the f i rs t  position, and (3) "-s: 'suffixal morpheme in the second position.
The flow chart for NEXUS I, withthe aforementioned legal collection in mind, is shown in F igure 3-1.
Thef i rs t  step (1) is to examine the f i rs t  term in the document term set underinitial examination.
If the f i rs t  term is a date (2), we don't want to couple itwith another term, so we leave it as a single term and move on to the nextword (3), if there is one.
The next word is examined as a f i rst  word (4), andif it is not a date, it is tested (5) for  a final plural morpheme,  " - s " .
If itdoes end with " - s " ,  a preceding word is looked for  (6).
If no preceding heldword exists, the term is printed as a single term (7)..
If the term does nothave an " - s "  ending, it is held for pair ing (8) with the next word in the set  (9).If this held word is the last  in the set, it is also (7) pr inted as a singleterm.
But, if there is a next word (16), thenext  word is examined and (11)15O0o~1 ~ ~O.Iv.gt - I,--Tt.~16tested for being a date.
If it is a date, it is printed (12) as a single term.If not, it receives a test for "-ed" (13) as the final morpheme.
This mor -pheme can only be allowed with the f i rst  word of a pair  (unless, of course,it is the last term in the set; in which case it is printed alone), ff "-ed"is present,  the held f i rst  word (14) is printed by itself, and the "-ed"word is held for f i rst -posit ion pairing.
If " -ed" is not present,  the heldword is printed with this word (15) as a coupled pair.Let 's go back to (5) where a word is tested for the presence of an " - s "final morpheme.
The word does end with " - s " ,  so we check for a precedingword (6).
In this case we will get "yes" for an answer,  and the next test is(16), "Does the preceding word end with " - s "?
If '~no" to this test (17), theword with " - s "  ending is printed in the second position of a pair ,  with thepreceding word in f i rs t  position.
If the answer to (16) is "yes",  the function(18) is activated, which checks the word preceding and (19) checks that wordfor a suffixal " -s" .
The program loops between (18) and (19) until a non-" -s "suffixal morpheme word is found.
It then (20) prints the latter word in f i rs tposition, followed by all " -s  "-ending words.
This portion of the NEXUS Iprogram can produce precoordinations of more  than two words.
The re -mainder of the tests and functions on this flow chart are probably sel f -explanatory.
If the program runs through the set of terms for one document,indicated by a "no" at test (3), the next test (21) asks " Is there a next record?"
.If "yes",  the next set  of te rms for a document is brought up by function (22)and the process ing continues.
If all document term sets have been processed.the answer to (21) is "no", and the program terminates.The NEXUS I program processed all 1742 document sets contained in thelegal information system.
The results of this processing produced 4078 com-binations.
3527 of these were good precoordinations.
154 t imes te rms with" - s "  suffixal morphemes were isolated and thereby avoided ambiguous17combinations.
397 precoordinat ions were unsuccessful .
The latter  quantity,however,  was the source of further  rules that will be applied to future ver-s ions of NEXUS.
We knew that the development of this program would have toinvolve expansion of the rules step by step.
So some of the bad coordinationsshowed us where more rules could have been applied to avoid them.
Of course,some of these anomalies were unavoidable.
They were mere ly  caused bycharacter is t ics  of the language with which we have to live if we are going tocontinue to speak English.te rms:Ju r imet r i csCommitteeScientificFor  example, one term set l isted the followingInvestigationLegalProblems.Because of our " - s "  rule in second position only, the program isolated" Ju r imet r i cs"  instead of making the obvious (to a human) coordination," Ju r imet r i cs  Committee."
The rule must  be valid for  only one position, andthe second position is the most  common one.
Continuing the sequence,"Committee" was precoordinated with "Scientific" because of the sequencerule.
This is also an,obvious er ror  to a human, because of the suffixalmorpheme "- ic" ,  which is  part  of "Scientific. "
In analyzing the production,so far,  " - ie"  seems like a good candidate for  a f i rst -post ion suffixal mor -pheme; so, it became one in the next version of the program.
The next com-bination, "Scientific Invest igat ion," turned out successful ly because ofsequence, but "Investigation Legal" went bad; once again because of a suffixalmorpheme cue that wasn' t  included in the program.This morpheme was the " -a l "  on the term ,"Legal" which was laterincluded as a f i rst -pos i t ion rule.
Finally, "Legal P rob lems"  was produced,meeting the requi rements  of both sequence and " -s "  rules.18Please bear in mind that the rules incorporated in this p rogram cannever attain 100% effectivity.
Natural language won't allow it.
Still, NEXUS Idelivered 90% correct  precoordinations, which is encouraging as the f i r s t  t ryof an experimental program.SECTION 4NEXUS IIBased on the success (and the fai lures) of NEXUS I, an expanded vers ionof the program was written.
NEXUS II was made more effective by addingrules principally affecting f i rst-posit ion qualification, and one rule affectingboth f i rs t  and second position.The new f i rst -posit ion rules included the suffixal morphemes " -a l" ," -e rn" ,  " -ese" ,  "- ic" ,  " - ive",  "- ly" and " -ous" .
The remaining rule was onethat prevented two words with "- ing" endings f rom being paired together.As you may have noticed, the f i rst -posi t ion rule, " -ous"  conflicts withthe second-posit ion rule, " - s " .
The latter rule looks for a final " - s "  only andwhen it finds one, qualifies the term for second position.
Because of this, the" - s "  test must  also include a test for preceding "o" and "u".
When these arepresent,  we have a f i rst -posit ion rule in effect; when absent, a second-posit ionrule.One of the NEXUS I rules was eliminated.
The rule for stacking " - s "words and attaching the f i rst  non-" -s "  as a f i rst -posit ion word.
This rule didnot produce anything of value, and could possibly have contributed to ambiguity.However, a turnabout version of this rule was adopted.
This rule, if it locatesa sequence of f i rst -posit ion suffixal morphemes,  will stack them up until itfinds a second-posit ion word.
It then pr ints them all in combination.
In thisway, we have a method for creating str ings of terms in precoordination con-s ist ing of more  than two words.
"Three-dimensional  Holographic Techniques,"is an example of a production of this kind.19NEXUS I contained an overlapping feature which we haven't  ment ioned,but  which may have been obvious when we went through the " Ju r imet r i cs ,Commit tee ,  Scientif ic, and so on" example.
The purpose of overlapping wasto le f t - just i fy  each te rm whether  combined or left alone, so that it could bes to red  alphabet ical ly  in an IS&R sys tem.
In this way, no te rm is hidden f romthe search  by reason of being fo rever  concealed in second posit ion in storage.We did insta l l  a jump switch in NEXUS II, so that we can e l iminate overlapping,if des i red.
If mere  subject -headings are  required,  overlapping is of no value;but  if the option for a f ree - te rm search  is  needed, the overlapping featureal lows s to rage  and search  exposure  of each individual term.Two very  di f ferent corpora  were run against  NEXUS II.
The f i rst  wasa col lect ion of computer  p rogram descr ipt ions  which was assembled  for  theScientif ic Master  P rogramming  System (published as " Information Storageand Retr ieval  Computer  P rogram Index, GDC-DBA68-003).
The second wasa ser ies  of documents  f rom the NASA Tape System col lection.The program descr ipt ions  cons is ted  of abs t rac ts  of what each par t i cu larp rogram was intended to do, and how it operated.
Each descr ipt ion also hada shor t  name,  a t it le, the computer  language used,  the name of the respons ib lep rogrammer  and the respons ib le  ng ineer ,  and a set  of te rms  used to index thedescr ipt ion .The abst ract  port ion of each descr ipt ion was used to supply NEXUS IIwith mater ia l  to work with.
The abst racts  were  f i r s t  p rocessed  through anauto - indexer  to produce l i s ts  of te rms .
These l is ts  were next presented  toNEXUS II and then pr inted out for  ana lys is  after  the term-b ind ing  operat ionswere  per fo rmed.
NEXUS lI was run two ways; with and without the overlappingfeature .The program worked well with this mater ia l ,  with one exception.
Thesuff ixal  morpheme car r ied  by the third person  s ingular ,  p resent  tense  verb,20" - s " ,  has  the same physical  appearance as the p lura l  morpheme,  " - s " .Since the computer  can' t  tell the di f ference,  there  occur red  some boundte rms that were somewhat  loss  than ri fe with meaning;  for example,"P rogram Calculates" ,  "Computes" ,  "P rogram Generates" ,  "P rogram Uses" .Although these  odd combinat ions could be avoided by employing a di f ferentwrit ing sty le  when producing the abst rac ts ,  we are  not concerned with pre -condit ioning a corpus,  rather  with handling it in whatever  fo rm we happen tof ind it.
The above combinat ions can certa in ly  be tolerated,  however,  s incethey have no effect on the other precoord inat ions.
Still, the i r  value in a fu-ture search  may be predicted as sl ight.
A NEXUS II p rocessed  record  of thecomputer  p rogram descr ipt ions hows:9916 Computes9916 Allowable Moments9916 Axial Loads9916 At las9916 Tank Skins9916 Compress ion  Capabil ity9916 St ructures9916 Tech Memo9916 5 Funct ion9916 Ullage9916 Hydrostat ic P ressure9916 GeometryThe second corpus processed  through NEXUS II cons is ted of t i t les ofdocuments  f rom the NASA Tape System.
These  t i t les were  f i r s t  auto- indexedin the same way as the abst racts  of the computer  p rogram descr ipt ions.
Thel i s ts  of te rms  derived in this way were then given the NEXUf~ II t reatment .21The rules applied were:" - s "  Final Position"-ed" 1st Position"- ie" i s t  Position"- ly" i s t  Position"-a l"  I s t  Position"- ing" I s t  Position"-able" 1st Position"- ive" 1st Position"-OUS" Ist Position" -a r "  1st Position" -ary"  I s t  Position"-ese" Ist Position" -ern"  1st PositionImmediately following NEXUS II processing, the same NASA documenta-tion was run using only a sequencing rule, without suffixal morpheme xamina-tion.
The results of this modified program, SEQS, were merged in alternationwith the NEXUS II results ,  and printed out for analysis.The f i rst  twenty-five NASA documents resulted in I08 good precoordina-tlons out of 124 for NEXUS II, and 73 good precoordinations out of 113 for SEQS.Some term sets are shown using NEXUS II, SEQS, and human analysis:NEXUS II SEQS HUMAN9993 Developm e~t 9993 Development 9993 DevelopmentThin-Fi lm Thin-Fi lm Thin-Fi lm Space-9993 Space-Charge 9993 Space-Charge Charge Limited9993 Limited Triode Limited Triode9993 Final Report 9993 Triode Final 9993 Final Report Mar.9993 Mar.
1965 9993 Report Mar.
1965 - Jun.
19669993 Jun.
1966 9993 1965 Jun.9993 196622NEXUS II SEQ~._ HUMAN9988 Electron Impact 9988 Electron Impact 9988 Electron Impact9988 Broadening 9988 Broadening BroadeningIsolated Ion Isolated 9988 Isolated Ion Lines9988 Lines 9988 Ion Lines9996 Man System 9996 Man System 9996 Man System9996 Criter ia 9996 Criteria Extra- Criter ia9996 Extraterrestr ia l  ter restr ia l  9996 Extraterrestr ia lRoving Vehicles 9996 Roving Vehicles Roving Vehicles9996 Phase IB 9996 Phase IB 9996 Phase IB9996 Lunex II 9996 Lunex II 9996 Lunex II Simula-9996 Simulation Interim 9996 Simulation tion9996 Technical Report Interim 9996 Interim Teehni-9996 Technical Report eal Report9998 Bodies 9998 Bodies Maximum 9998 Bodies9998 Maximum Lift-  9998 Lift-to-Drag 9998 Maximum Lift-to-Drag Ratio to-Drag Ratio9998 Ratio 9998 Hypersonic Flow 9998 Hypersonic Flow9998 Hypersonic FlowConclusionsSECTION 5As an exercise in demonstrating the difficulties encountered in handlingnatural anguage for computerized information retrieval, the NEXUS experi -ments have been very successful .The intent has been to expand upon more or less  standard automaticindexing techniques by reestabl ishing a connection between te rms that, whencombined, aid the searcher  in retrieving a document reference from storage.We have named this process precoordination because of its relationship tocoordinate index systems.
In a coordinate index the searcher  combinesterms,  looking for a common accession umber, thereby indicating theiroccurrence together in a document description.
NEXUS has an application23in precoord inat ing these  te rms,  when applicable, to save t ime for  thesearcher  and to ensure  a cor rec t  coordination and to prevent  coordinatingte rms that give a mis lead ing  impl icat ion.
Precoord inated te rms are  then,in effect, equivalent to subject  headings insofar  as they part ia l ly express  aconcept in one or  more  words  in a syntatic construct ion.The compar ison  of NEXUS, and its severa l  l inguist ica l ly -based rules,with SEQS, and i ts  s ingle rule for sequent ia l  l inking, has shown that NEXUSis the more  eff icient of the two approaches.
Neither,  of course ,  can comparewith human decis ion power,  which has the abil ity to employ knowledge, pastexper ience,  and heur i s t i cs .
Since we are  try ing to approach a human intel -lectual  act ivity us ing  a machine,  however,  the work of a human will probablya lways make  our resu l t s  look infer ior .
We arc  l imited to looking at wordspr imar i l y  as  phys ica l  ent it ies and then re lat ing these  phys ica l  features  tosemant ic  re lat ionsh ips .
There  is only so much to work with in Engl ish, andthat much  is not 100% rel iable,  as we have seen.We have attempted to use  a s imple  a lgor i thm, and to add to it, o r  sub-t rac t  f rom it, through tr ia l  and er ror .
No doubt these rules can be expandedmore  than they have been,  so the program is open to fur ther  additions at anyt ime.The NEXUS II flow chart ,  F igure 5-1, with a nar rat ive  explanation,fol lows.The f i r s t  step at (1) is to read a record,  a document e rm set.
Step (2)examines  the f i r s t  te rm in the set  and if there  is one, moves  through the datetes t  (3), which is  a holdover f rom the legal data col lection.
Next, the programmakes  the f i r s t  suff ixal  morpheme test  (4).
If tlie examined word does notend in ~-s  TT, it is  held for  pa i r ing  (5) and the T~-ed~t counter  is  se t  to zero.This  counter  is  used  for  all f i r s t -pos i t ion  suff ixal morpheme words,  not justfor  those  that end in " -ed ' .
The counter  is  used to keep t rack of the amount24MHB,rl25of f i rst -posi t ion words that accumulate before a second-posit ion word appears,so that they can all be printed out in a str ing; e .g .
,  "BINARY DIGITALCALCULATING MACHINE".The program then moves to (6) where a next word is looked for.
If "no",the word held at (5) is printed as a single term (7) and a return to (2) is made,in turn going to (1) and the next record is begun.
If (6) is "yes",  the NEXUS Idate check is made (8) which results  in "yes"  back through (7) and then (2)again, or  "no", which is governed by Sense Switch 2 (9).
Sense Switch 2 canbe set to pass  an examined work through the tests for "- ing" in f i rs t  position(10) and in second position (11) in order  to prevent coupling of words bearingthese suff ixes.
These tests current ly have no value because "- ing" has beenestabl ished as a fairly reliable f i rst -posit ion suffixal morpheme and thereforemust  be allowed to stack up with words bearing "-tug" or  any of the other *(* re fers  to NOTE - center of page, F igure 5-1) words.
The test has been leftin in case it ever appears to be of any future use.Assuming Sense Switch 2 to be in an "on" position, a "no" answer to (8)proceeds directly to (12) where the held f i rs t  word receives the f i rst -posit iontest for  " -ed".
If "yes",  the "-ed" counter is incremented and the second wordis passed through an " -ed" test (14).
A "no" at (12) passes  the program directlyto (14).
If (14} is "no", the second word is tested for  presence of any of the othersuffixal morphemes qualifying a word for f i rs t  position (noted as *) (15).
If (14)is "no", the second word is tested for presence of any of the other suffixal mor -phemes qualifying a word for f i rs t  position (noted as *) (15).
If (14) is "yes",the f i r s t  word is tested for an * ending (16).
A "no" at (15} moves the programto (17) where the f i rst  and second words are printed, the counter is set  to zeroand a flag, 2, (for later  identification as a coupled pair) is placed at the end ofthe f i r s t  and second words.
This flag is externally suppressed.26Pass ing through an indexer (pointing to the last word of a combination}and moving further to {18}, there is a Sense Switch 1, that controls overlapping.This is the feature that assures  all te rms a left-justif ied accessibi l ity, by pr int -ing te rms indi~cidually as well as in combinations.
With the sense switch off,the program moves to (7) and the last word in the combination is printed alone.With the sense switch on, the program returns to (2) and continues through therecord.Backing up now, to (15}.
If a "yes" answer is made at (15), the f i rstword is tested for * ending at (16}.
If "no" at (16), the f i rst  word receives an"-ed" test (19} and upon receiving another "no" at (19) the f i rst  word is printedalone at (7).
If "yes" at either (16) or  (19}, the "-ed" counter (20) (which alsocounts * words}, is incremented and a test for a next word is encountered at(21).
If there is not a next word in the record under examination, each " -ed"{or *) word is printed individually (22) and the counter eset  to zero.
Theprogram then goes back to (2).
If there is a next word in the record, the datetest is made (23).
If "yes" on (23), the pr int  instruction (22) is applied to all"~ed"/* words,  and then back to (2).
If "no" on (23), the next word is checkedfor " -ed",  (24) and * (25).
Failing both of these tests,  all "-ed" and * wordsare printed in a str ing (with the last member  of the str ing a non-" -ed"/*)  (26).If either of these tests (24}, (25) are posit ive, the program loops back through(2}, increments the "-ed" counter and cycles through (21), etc.
,  again.Let 's  now go back to the f i r s t  suffixal morpheme test, the last word " - s "test  at (4), and assume a "yes" answer.
We then must find out if it is a plural" - s " ,  o r  part  of an * ending, " -ous"  (27).
If it is " -ous" ,  we then go to (5),and thence through the route just explained above.
If it is not " -ous" ,  but aplural  " - s " ,  we move to {28} to check for a preceding word.
If there is nopreceding word, the " - s "  word is printed as a single word (29}, and back to (2).27If there is a preceding word, the date check (30) goes into effect.
If positive,the program moves to (29) and the " - s "  word is printed as a single term.
If"no" on (30) the test is made "Does preceding word end with ' - s '  ?"
(31) which,when "no", moves the program to (32) "Is the preceding word part  of a coupledpair  ?".
This is the reason for the flag put at the end of the 1st and 2nd wordsat (17}.If "yes" at (32) the program shifts to (29) where the " - s "  word is printedas a single word.
If "no v' at (32), the program prints the preceding word withthis " - s "  word (33).
If "yes" at (31), there is a test for a preceding word (34).If "yes" at (34), the date test (35) takes place.
If "no" at (34), the programshifts to (29) and prints the " - s "  word as a single word, and then goes back to(2).
This also occurs when there is a "yes"  answer at (35).
If "no" at (35),the program goes back to (29) where the " - s "  word is printed as a single word.This is the latest version of NEXUS II.
The flow chart has superfluit iesthat haven't been removed.
Many instructions could be combined to saveoperations.
But, the intent has been to get this program operating and re -ported on.
The flaws that are  obvious are  the combining of various rules thatapply to "-ed" endings as well as * endings.
These rules are to be treatedthe same.
No doubt, other things could be combined to make a more efficientp rogram.A few suggestions for  applying this method should be made.
The pre -vious method for auto-iudexed terms has been to use them in a "busted-book"o r  computer-generatod coordinate index.
The NEXUS-generated subjectheadings are  definitely not Suitable for this type of output.
The best type ofoutput format  would be something approaching v~hat was done for the Aero-medical Evacuation Study Bibliography.
4 That was a subject-heading listing,followed by a full bibl iographical entry: author, title, date, ser ies  number,and corporate author.
Sample entries are  shown below:28BLOOD PRESSUREROMAN JHENRY JPMEEHAN JPVAL ID ITY  OF FLIGHT BLOOD PRESSURE DATA,AEROSPACE NED 361436-41 j  SAY 65BLooD PRESSURE SENSORRESEARCH + TECHNOLO~GY RESUHE (S) FOR THE DEVEL.OFtN) DOPPLER ULTRASONIC BLO00 PRESSURE SENSORBLOOD VOLUHEGRABLE ELURUS AOSOFSRY HTHE PREDICTABIL ITY  OF BLOOD VOLUHE IN NORHALA IR  FORCE PERSONNEL AND THEIR DEPENDENTS.H IL IT  HED ~32,1t4 -8 ,  FEB 67BLOOD VOLUMERESEARCH + TECHNOLOGY RESUHE(S) FOR THE DEVEL.Q) INVESTIGATION OF BLOOD VOLUH\[ ?
GASALTERATIONS MEASUREMENTS DURING AEROHEDICALEVACUATIONThis bibl iography was machine processed  after  all input was subjectedto human analys is .The final bibl iography cons isted of four sect ions:  by subject ,  by author,by tit le, and by source.
The la t ter  sect ion was an alphabetical  sor t  of thejournals ,  books, papers ,  and manua ls  f rom which the mater ia l  was taken.A modif icat ion of th is  form of output has been suggested by Mr.  JamesMoore of 591-0, who was respons ib le  for NEXUS I and II p rogramming .
Hissuggest ion involves a sor t  and pr intout  of each auto- indexed te rm and beneatheach such te rm is pr inted the N F2KUS preeoord inated set  of which the te rm isa member .
Beneath this te rm set would be the bibl iographic entry,  in ent i rety.Where  te rms are  not members  of a precoord inated set,  they are  pr inted alone,followed by the full bibl iographic entry.
A hand-generated xample of th is29format would appear like this:(in "S" portion of alphabet)SUPERSONICCOMMERCIAL SUPERSONIC TRANSPORTBOEING CO.COMMERCIAL SUPERSONIC TRANSPORT PROPOSAL,A-111, AIRCRAFT DESCRIPTION.D6-2400-9 THE BOEING CO. 15 JAN 64(in "C" portion Of alphabet)COMMERCIA LCOMMERCIAL SUPERSONIC TRANSPORTBOEING CO.COMMERCIAL  SUPERSONIC  TRANSPORT PROPOSAL,  A - i l l ,  A IRCRAFTDESCRIPT ION.D6-2400-9  THE BOEING CO.  15 JAN 64(in "T" portion of alphabet)T:RANSPORTCOMMERCIAL  SUPERSONIC TRANSPORTBOEING CO.COMMERCIAL  SUPERSONIC TRANSPORT PROPOSAL ,A-ill, A IRCRAFT  DESCRIPTION.D6-2400-9 THE BOEING CO. \]5 JAN 64(in "P" portion of alphabet)P ROP OSA LPROPOSAL  A-illBOEING CO.COMMERCIAL  SUPERSONIC TRANSPORT PROPOSAL,A-111, A IRCRAFT  DESCRIPTION.D6-2400-9 THE BOEING CO. 15 JAN 64(in "A" portion of alphabet)A IRCRAFTBOEING CO.COMMERCIAL  SUPERSONIC TRANSPORT PROPOSAL,A-ill, A IRCRAFT  DESCRIPTION.D6-2400-9 THE BOEING CO. 15 JAN 6430(in "D" portion of alphabet)DESCRIPTIONBOEING CO.COMMERCIAL SUPERSONIC TRANSPORT PROPOSAL,A-111, AIRCRAFT DESCRIPTION.D6-2400-9 THE BOEING CO.15 JAN 64Six subject entr ies per document reference may seem excessive at f i rstglance, and there may be more if an abstract is also processed,  but roughlythis same approach was used for the Aeromedical Evacuation Bibliography andwas found to be helpful.
Unfortunately, the same human analysis that wasemployed in process ing the input to that program was not completely thoroughin picking up all possible subject headings for sorting.
A machine-analysissystem would not suffer from this fallibility.SECTION (iRecommendationsLinguistics is becoming more and more recognized as a basic researcharea in information retr ieval.
The problem of document analysis and index-term selection is the most  fundamental ctivity of all in the cycle of document-to-storage-to-document user ,  which is what information retr ieval  reallyamounts to.No matter  how sophisticated the storage medium might be, no matterhow fast the computer can sift through a data bank searching for information,an information retr ieval  system is only as good as its contents.Linguistics, as applied to information retr ieval,  is concerned withimproving the input function in the design of automatic indexing, abstractingand classif ication methods.
The kind of l inquistics used in these applicationsis l imited to the written word or the analysis and manipulation of graphemes.Linquistics, in a general sense, concerns itself with speech sounds, from whicha graphemic representat ion f a language is one step removed.
If the day ever31comes that a computer can more  efficiently accept the spoken word than thewritten word l inguistics, in a ful ler sense, will be found applicable.
Therewill probably be interim improvements in methods for computer .input thatwill predate voice input, however,Such input devices as optical scanners and page readers may make along-awaited appearance, for practical purposes,  before people can talk toa computer in any application other than an experimental one.
If there isany doubt of the super ior i ty of the spoken word over the written as an infor-mation car r ie r ,  one merely  has to read a television jingle or such a phraseas,  "very interestting~ " heard on a popular TV program, to real ize that thesuprasegmental  phonemes of s t ress ,  pitch, juncture and even accent in thedialect sense,  completely lost in the written word, are very much presentand necessary  in the spoken word.Getting back to the kind of l inguistics with which we have been directlyconcerned, we have been devising rules f i r  joining together two or more wordsto make up a phrase.
The rules are activated when one or more  characters(graphemes) are found at the ends of words (suffixal morphemes} that have aneffect on the word's  connectability to other words in a sequence (syntax}.These rules work every time.
There is no decision maker involved allowinga somet imes exemption to a rule.
Since the rules are of a general -purposekind, they are set up to operate on the most  frequent conditions.
The excep-tions to these conditions that occur occasionally are merely  tolerated.
Noattempt has been made to set up ad hoc rules to cover them.
It so happens,unfortunately, that the name "Information Retrieval" is one of these exceptionsand would not be produced as a combination by the NEXUS program.Although the NEXUS method is far  f rom perfect, even in its presentstate it is reasonably workable as a subject-heading generator.
Its con-s istency of operation, of course,  exceeds human processing; an advantage32in some respects and a disadvantage in others,  as already pointed out.Research of this type is not intended to produce a panacea that will solve allnatural- language-input roblems, but is intended to shed a little more lighton language manipulation by computer and perhaps take a few tentative stepstowards a solution of these problems.
Hopefully, this research as beensuccessful to that extent.The following pages are S-C 4020 microf i lm hard copies showing acomparison between NF~US process ing and SEQS process ing of NASA LinearTape System documents.5The NASA System has been previously converted to the IS&R format formore  efficient information searching.
The titles of a 1000-document corpuswere f i rst  auto-indexed using IS&R SIMPL programming techniques, The pro -duct of the auto-indexing operation is shown in .the f i rs t  column on the left ofeach page.
It consists of a l ist of content words remaining after the functionwords were deleted from the title.The middle column is a l ist of the word combinations created by theNEXUS II p rogram employing l inguistic rules and sequence rules.The SEQS column l ists the combinations formed by using sequence rulesalone.
Here eve*T two terms are connected as they occur in syntactical order.33CORPUS OFNASA TAPE SYSTEHDOCUMENTSNEXUSA LINGUISTIC TECHNIQUEFORPRECOORDINATIONDEC 1968TITLE 'GEODETIC JUNCTION OFPHOTOGRAPHS TAKEN FRON ECHOAUTO-INDEXEDTERMS;,GEODETIC I,GEODETIC JUNCTION2.JUNCTION 2,FRANCE3.FRANCE 3.NORTH AFRICA4.NORTH 4.SYNCHRONIZED PHOTOGRAPHSS.AFRICA S.ECHO SATELLITE6oSYNCHRONIZED?.PHOTOGRAPHS8.ECHO9.SATELLITEFRANCE AND NORTH AFRICA BY SYNCHRONIZEDI SATELLITENEXUS SEQS1.GEOOETIC JUNCTION2.FRANCE NORTH3.AFRICA SYNCHRC4CIZED4.PHOTOGRAPHS ECHOS.SATELLITETITLE 'L IMITS OF HEAD-WAVE AHPLITUDES FOR SI'IO~T ,SPREADS FROt4 VARIOUS CHARGESIZESe BLASTING CAPSi AND 4S-KG WEIGHT DROPAUTO-INDEXED NEXUS SEQSTERMSI .L IMITS2 ?
HEAD-WAVE3 ?
AHPL I TUDES4 .SHORT5 ?
SPREADS6 ?
CHARGE7.SIZES8.DLASTING9.CAPSIO.45-KGZl.WEIGHT12.DROPI .
L IM ITS  I .
L IM ITS  HEAD-WAVE2.HEAD-WAVE AMPLITUDES 2.AMPLITUDES SllO~T3.SI'IORT SPREADS 3.SPREADS CHARGE4.CHARGE SIZES 4,SIZES BLASTINGS.BLASTING CAPS 5.CAPS 4S-KG6o4S-KG~cI~IGHT S.~/IE1GHT DROP7.DI~PCORPUS OF NEXUSNASA TAPE SYSTEM A LINGUISTIC TECHNIQUED~UHENTS FORPRECOORDINATIONOEC 1968TITLE 'STRUCTURE AND COHPOSITION OF THE SOUTHERN COULEE,CALIFORNIA - A PUMICEOUS RHYOLITE FLOWAUTO-INDEXED NEXUSTERNSI .STRUCTURE2 .COHPOS I T ION3.SOUTHERN4.
COULEE5 * t4'.~'~O6.CRATERS7.CALIFORNIAB.PUH ICEOUS9.RNYOL|TE1D.FL,Ob/1.STRUCTURE COI4FOSlTlOfl2.SOUTHERN COULEE3.HONOCRATERS4.CALIFORNIA5.PUMICEOUS RHYOLITE6 .FL~NONO CRATERS,SEQSI.STRUCTUR\[ COHPO$1TION2.SOUTHERN COULEE3.MONOCRATER84.CALIFORNIA PUM|CEOUS5.RHYOLITE FL~TITLE 'ON THE THE~RMK~OYNANICS (~ ELASTIC MATERIALSAUTO-INDEXED NEXUS SEQSTERNSI.THERHODYNANICS 1.THERI4ODYNANICS I.TI'I~RHOOYNANICS ELASTIC2.ELASTIC 2.ELASTIC MATERIALS Z.NATERIAL$3.NATERIALS$ $ $ $ $ $ $TITLE 'A FINITE DIFFERENCE NETHCO FOR COMPUTING UNSTEADYD INCOMPRESSIBLE, LAMINARBOUNOARY LAYER FLCIb/S FINAL SCIENT|FIC REPORTAUTO-INDEXEOTEENS1.FINITE2.DIFFERENCE3.NETHC~4?COHPUTZNG$.UNSTEADY6.1NCOHPRE$SIBL\[7.LAHINAR8.BOUNDARY9.LAYERIO.FLC$/S11.FINALIR*&CIENTIFIC13.REPORTNEXUS 5EQS1.FINITE DIFFERENCE2.NETMGOS.COHPUT|NG UNSTEADY4.1NCOHPR?$SIBLE LAMINAR BOUNOARYLAYER FLCIk/S$.FINAL 6CI?NT|FZC REPORT35I.FINIT?
DIFFERENCE2.METHCO COMPUTING3?UNSTEADYINCOHPRESSIDL?4.LAMINAR BOUNDARY5.LAYER FLO|,/$6.FINAL SCIENTIFIC7.REPORYCORPUS OF N?XUSNASA TAP?
SYSTEM A LINGUISTIC TECHNIQUEOOCUNENT$ FORPRECOORDINATIOHDEC 1968TITLE 'INTERPLANETARY NONITORING PLATFORM IMP I I I  - EXPLORER XXVl | l  INTERIMFLIGHT REPORT NO, 2AUTO-INDEXED NEXUS SEQ$TERMS1,INTERPLANETARY2.HONITORING3.PLATFORH4.IMP5.1116.EXPL~ER7.XXVIII8.1NTERIN9,FLIGHTIO,REPORT11.2I.INTERPLANETARY MONITORING PLATIrORH2.
II4P 1113.EXPLORER XXVl I l4 ,  INTERIH FLIGHTS * REPORT 21 .
INTERPLANETARYNONITOR IHG2.PLATFORM INP3 ,1 I f  EXPLORER4,XXVI I I INTERIM$.FL|GHT REPORT6 .2?
TITLE 'ELECTROt4AGNETIE SCATTERING CHARACTERISTICS CF A #,ICTEOROLOGICAL RADAR ANGELNCsOEL BY HETHOOSOF PHYSICAL OPTICSAUTO-INDEXED NEXUS SEQSTERHSI.ELECTROHAGNETIC I,\[LECTROHAGNETIC SCATTERING2.SCATTERING CHARACTERIS~|CS3.CHARACTERISTIC8 Z.HETEOROLOG|CAL RADAR ANGEL4,METEOROLOGICAL 3,HOOEL NETI-IO085.RADAR 4,PHYS|CAL(~PTICS6,ANGEL7.MOOELB,HETHOOS9,PHYSICAL|O.OPTZC$Z.ELECTEOHAGNET|CSCATTERING2,CHARACTERISTICSNETEOEOLOGIEAL3.RADAR ANGEL4.HOOEL METFIOOS5,PHY$1CAL OPTICS3~CORPUS OF NEXUSNASA TAPE SYSTEN A LINGUISTIC TECHNIQUEDOCUMENTS FORPRECOORDINAT|ONDEC lgSBTITLE 'EXTENSIONAL NECHAN|CAL PROPERTIES OF POLYESTER AND POLYETHER BASEDFOLYURETHANESAUTO-INDEXED MEXUS SEQSTERM5I.
?XT\[NSIONAL2,MECHANICAL3.FROPERTIES4,FOLYESTER5.POLY\[TH\[RG.PO(.YURETHAMES|.EXTENSIONAL MECHANICAL PI~PERTIES2.POLYESTER FOLYETH?R POLYURETHANE;S1.EXTENSIONAL HECHANICAL2.PROPERTIES POLYESTER3oPOLYETHERI~X.YURETHANESTITL\[ 'FR~AGATION ~r HARMONIC WAVES 1N ~4POSITE CIRCULAR CYLINDRICAL SHELLS,PART X - THEORETICAL INVESTIGATIONAUTO-|NDEXEB NEXUS SEQSTERMS1.PROIPAGATION2.HARI~'Mq|C3.WAVES4.COHFOSIT\[5.CIRCULAR6,CYLINDRICAL7,SHELLS8.PART9,THEORETICALID.INVEST|GATION2.PR(SPAGATIONZ,HARMONIC WAVES3,?
(~t.IF~)SITE4,C|RCULAR CYLINDRICAL 8HELL85,PARTG,THEORETICAL INVESTIGATiON1,PROPAGATION HARMONIC2,WAVES COHFOSlTES,CIRCULAR CYLINDRICAL4,SHELLS PARTS,TI'IEORETICALINVESTIGATIONTZTL\[ 'M?AN NOLECULAR MASS AND SCALE I II~iGHTS (~ THE UPPER ATMOSPHEREAUTO-INDEXED NEXUS SEBSTERMS1,MEAN 1,MEAN 1,H\[AN MOLECULAR2.MOLECULAR 2.MOLECULAR MASS ~,MASS SCALE3,MASS 3,SCALE HEIGHTS 3,HEIGHTS UPPER4,SCALE 4,UPPER ATMO.~PI'I?RE 4,ATHOSPHERE$,HEIGHTSS,UPPER7,ATNOSPHI~RE37CORPUS OF" NEXUSNASA TAPE SYSTEM A LINGUISTIC TECHNIQUEDOCUMENTS FORPRECOORDINATIONDEC 1968TITLE 'MAGNETIC FIELD MEASUREMENTS IN INTERPLANETARY SPACEAUTO-INDEXED NEXUS SEaSTEEHSI.HAGNETIC I.HAGNETIC FIELD I.MAGNETIC FIELD2.FIELD 2oMEASUREMENTS 2?MEASUREMENTS3?HEASUREMENTS 3.INTERPLANETARY SPACE INTERPLANETARY4,1NTERPLANETARY 3.SPACE5.SPACETITLE 'HEASUREMENTS OF MAGNETIC PRC~E~ES DURING TIm PREHEATING PHASE OF A SPINDLECUSP EXPERIH~NTAUTO-INDEXED NEXUS SEQSTERHS1.HEASUREMENTS /.MEASUREMENTSa.MAGNETIC 2.MAGNETIC PRC~ES3,FROliCS 3oPREHEATING PHASE4.PREHEATING 4?SPINDLE CUSP5.PHASE S.EXPER|HENT6,SPINDLE7.CUSP8.EXPERIMENT1,MEASUREHENTS MAGNETIC2.PROISES PREHEATING3.PHASE SPINDLE4.CUSP EXPERIMENTTITLE 'THE EFFECTS OF THE LAUNCH VEHICLE ON ~PACECRAPT DESIGNAUTO-INDEXED NEXUSTERHSSEQS\].~FFECTS !.EFFECTS2.LAUNCH 2.LAUNCH VEH|CL~3.VEHICLE 3.SPACECRAFT D?$|GN4oSPAC?CRAFT5.DESIGN1.EFFECTS LAUNCH2.VEHICLE SPACECRAFT3.DES|ON~8CORPUS OF" NEXUSNASA TAPE SYSTEM A LINGUISTIC TECHNIQUEDOCUMENTS FORPRECOORDINATIGNDEC 196BTITLE 'A TWO-TEHPERATURE STATISTICAL HOOEL FOR PARTICLE PRODUCTION AT HIGHENERG I ESAUTO- l NDEXED NEXUS SEQSTERHSl .
T~..~-TEMPERATURE 1 .TWO-TEMPERATURE 1 ?
TWO-TEMPERATURE2.STATIST ICAL 2.STAT IST iCAL HOOEL STATISTICAL3.MODEL 3.PARTICLE PRODUCTION 2.HO~EL PARTICLE4.PARTICLE 4,HIGH ENERGIES S.PROOUCTIC~I HIGHS ?
P RCOOUC T ION 4 ?
ENERG I ESG.HIGH7.ENERGIESTITLE 'PRCJPAGATION OF SPHERICAL WAVES THROUGH AN INHOHOGENEOUS HEDIUH CONTAININGANISOTROFIC IRREGULARITIESAUTO-INDEXED NEXUS SEQSTERMS|.PRC4:AGATION2.SPHERICAL3.WAVES4.INH~.
'~.-~GENECXJS5.HEDIUH6.CONTAINING7.ANISOTROPIC8.1RREGULARIT|ES1.PROPAGATION2.SPHERICAL WAVES3.1NHOt4OGENEOUS HEDIUH4,CONTAINING ANISOTROPICiRREGULARITIES1.PROPAGATION SPHERICAL2.WAVE8 INHC~,tOGENEOUS3.MEDIUM CONTAINING4.ANISOTROPICIRREGULARITIESTITLE 'PULSED ELECTRICAL POWER GENERATION FROH HAGNETICALLY LOADED EXPLOSIVESAUTO-INDEXED NEXUS SEQ$TERMS1.PULSED2.ELECTRICAL3.POWER4,GENERATION5,MAGNETICALLY6,LOADED7oEXPLOS~ES|.PULSED ELECTRICAL POI,~R GENERATION2.MAGNETICALLY LOADED EXPLOSIVES1.PULSED ELECTRICAL2.Pck/ER GENERATIONS,HAGNETICALLY LOADED4,EXPLOS|VES3~CORPUS OF NEXUSNASA TAPE SYSTEM A LINGUISTIC TECHNIQUEDOCUMENTS FORPRECOORDINATIONDEC 1968TITLE 'ELECTRICAL PULSES FROH HELICAL AND COAXIAL EXPLOSIVE GENERATORSAUTO-INDEXED NEXUS SEQSTERMSI.ELECTRICALE.PULSES3.HELICAL4,COAXIALS,EXPLOSIVE6.GENERATORSI,ELECTRICAL PULSES2.HELICAL COAXIAL EXPLOSIVEGENERATORSI.ELECTRICAL PULSES2.HELICAL COAXIAL5.EXPLOSIVE GENERATORSTITLE 'PLASMA COHPRESSION BY EXPLOSIVELY PR?OUCED MAGNETIC FIELDSAUTO-INDEXED NEXUSTERMSSEQS1,PLASHA2,CC)HPRES~I~I3?EXPLOSIVELY4.PROOUCED5.MAGNETIC6,FIELDS1.PLASMA COHPRE$SI~goEXPLOSIVELY PROOUCED MAGNETICFIELDSI,PLASHA COHPRESSION2,EXPLOSIVELY PRCOUCED3.MAGNETIC FIELDSTITLE 'EFFECTIVE FEEDING SYSTEMS FOR PULSE GENERATORSAUTO-INDEXED NEXUSTERHSSEQSI.EFFECTIVE2.FEEDING3.SYSTEMS4.PULSES.GENERATORSI.EFFECTIVE FEEDING SYSTEMS2.PULSE GENERATORSt.EFFECTIVE FEEDING2.SYSTEHS PULSE3.GENERATORS40References1.
M.A .
Newcomb, R. A. Benson, Technique for the Automatic Genera-tion of Bibliographies (A Biomedical Application), San Diego, GeneralDynamics/Convair, 1965.2.
J .A .
Sanford and Frederick R. Theriault, Problems in the Applicationof Uniterm Coordinate Indexing, College and Research Libraries,January 1956, v. XVIII, pp.
19-23.3.
R .A .
Benson, Linguistic Experiments at Convair, San Diego, GeneralDynamics/Convair, 1967, pp.
5-1 to 5-3.4.
Medical Systems Analysis, Aeromedical Evacuation System, San Diego,General Dynamics Convair, 1 August 1968.5.
W.F .
MacDonald, Conversion of Large-Scale IS&R Systems for General-Purpose Operations, Convair division of General Dynamics, San Diego,.December 1968.41
