On the Use of  IAn6u is t i?
Quant i fy ing  0pera~ors  in  theLog ico-Semanttc  S t ruc ture  Representat ion  of  Ut te rancesIrena BellertWarsaw UniversityI.
IntroductionBy now i t  has become o lee~ to  most l insu is ts  that  sur faces t ruc tures  of  u t te rances  in  natura l  laD6uage are not  a su f -f i c ient  basis for the semantic interpretation, an~ that anabstTact ~eep structure representation has to be assumed ina lin6uistlc desc~Iption, whlch la supposed to correlate thesurface strua~xre hierarchical representation of each utter-ance with its msaniDg (or meanings in case of homonimi~y)?Since the problem of what should be understood as the meanln6of an utterance is not clear, the question of how deep etTuc-tures should be represented remains open for linguists, evenfor those who have been known as adherents of the transforma-tional generative 5Tammar, where deep structures are deter-mined in terms of generalized phrase markers (or some othersimilar concepts which get modified in the course of work).The questions which arise in postulating deep structurerepresentations are often due to the lack of a possible guidellne ?oncernin6 the division between the knowledge of l~a~eand knowled6e of the world, and thus between the informationwhich should be included in a full description of a lan6ua~ea~ that which shoul~ or need not.
The classical distinctionbetween syntax, which concerns relations between lan~ua6e-2 -s igns ,  and semant ics ,  uh ich  co lumns  re la t ions  bergen  lan -~a6e s igns  and extra l iD6uis%- lc  "ob jec ts"  (o r  ext ra l i z~a is t -i c  re la t ions ) ,  has a l so  become b lur red  up by the fac t  of  in -t roduc inK in to  the l in~u is t i c  des~pt tem abst rac t  s t ruc -tu res  which are only ind i rec t ly  re la ted  to  the  sur face  s ignsrepresent in~ the e lements  t2~at ac tua / ly  occur  in  u t te rances .However, even i f  we reckon the abst rac t  deep s t ruc ture  dee-c r ip~lons  as per ta in in6  to  syntact i ca l  re la t ions  - in  sp i teof cex~ain  a t tempts  tO the contreury 3 -  we w i l l  s t i l l  be le f tw i th  d i f f i cu l t ies  in  t ry ing  to  es tab l i sh  ~he scope of  semant-i c  re la t ions ,  that  i s ,  the re la t ions  between l ingu is t i c  s ignswhich occur in deep structure rep~esent~a~ions and extralln-Kuistio "objects" or relations.The difficulties whi=h arise in establiahln~ the scope ofsemant ics  are  before  a l l  due to  the  fac t  that  the  overhe l~n 6major i ty  Of u t te rances  conta in  s iKns mhich are  used in  re fe r -ence to  the  addresser ,  addressee ,  t~e t ime,  p lace  and s i tua -t ion  in  which a g iven  ut te rance  i s  produced2.
There fore ,  i fwe wanted to  take s~tous ly  the requ izement  that  semant ic  re -la t ions  should cons is t  in  re la t~ S~DS wi th  extTa~st ic"ob jec ts" ,  such a task  would s~p ly  be unfeas ib le  fo r  a l in -~/s t  or  semant ic i s t ,  fo r  i t  i s  cleeur that  a~y two ident i ca lu t te rances  used a t  a d i f fe rent  t ime,  p lace ,  or  produced by ad i f fe rent  speaker ,  should be in te :pre ted  d i f fe rent ly  i f  theyconta in  " token- re f lex ive"  s igns ,  ~ obv ious ly  they  are  re la t -ed to two d i f fe rent  ext r~st i c  s i tuat ions .-3-I t  i s  cer ta in~ much more reasonab le  to  fo l low a v iew he ldby  some ph i losophers ,  log ic ians  and l ingu is ts ,  wh ich  can  bebr ie f ly  reca l led  by  means o f  a quotat ion  f rom Roman Jakobson:"the meanln~ of any linguistic sign is its translation intosome further, alternative sign, especially a si@u "in mhichit is more fully developed" as Peirce, the deepest inquirerinto the essence of signs, insistently stated "3.
The gener-al i dea  i s  cer ta in ly  r ight ,  but  such  an  approach  leaves  muchf reedom wi th  respect  to  var ious  poss ib le  ways of  p resent in~" the  a l te rnat ive  s igns" .
Ne w i l l  not  d i scuss  here  the  d i f fe r -ent  p roposa ls  connected  w i th  such  an  approach  to  semant ics ,the i r  assets  and drawbacks ,  but  - accept ing  in  pr inc ip lethe  thes is  that  a semant ic  model  fo r  natura l  language can  on-l y  be  es tab l i shed  by  means o f  "a l te rnat ive  s igns"  - we w i l lsuggest one of the possible ways of descr ib i~ the semanticinterpretation of utterances.Following a concept which has already a certain traditionin philosophy, semantics an~ logic ~, but has never been takenseriously by linguists, I will accept the view that the sem-antic interpretation c~ an utterance is the set of consequen-ces which can be derived from that utterance (or more strict-ly, from its deep structure description) on the basis ofcertain implicatienal rules that can be established for thegiven language.
Accordingly, I attempt to search for sucha description of deep structures for which it ,/ill be pos-sible to formulate the rules ~hich i call quasi implica-tions 5.
In order to avoid confusion in using the term "deeps t ruc tures"  (which by now i s  employed in  d i f fe rent  senses ,  butshould be reserved  fo r  t rans format iona l  deep s t ruc tures ,  fo rwhich i t  has been c lear ly  de f ined) ,  I w i l l  re fe r  to  the log i -co -semant ic  s t ruc ture  (LS s t ruc ture)  o f  u t te rances  6.The ident i f i ca t ion  of  the  semant ic  in terpreta t ion  of  anu t te rance  wi th  the  set  of  consequences or conc lus ions  whichcan be drawn on the grounds of that  u t te rance  i s  very  c loseto our in tu i t i ve  unders tand ing  of how we in terpret  u t te rances .To say that the addressee understands an utterancep only if heis able to draw all the conclusions implied by the given ut-terancep seems to be compatible with the ordinary th ink i~ andthe estimation of a fully adequate understanding of an utter-ance.
The fact that certain conclusions are based on prem-isses corresponding to the addressee's beliefs which belongto his knowledge of the world precisely reflects what hasbeen mentioned earlier about the lack of a clearcut divisionbetween the knowledge of language and knowledge of the world.In fact such a division can only be arbitrarily establishedfor a given description of language.
For instance, in des-cribing a lexicon (or the rules of the lexicon in a theoryof language), we have to make a decision as to Whether cer-tain information concerning a lexical item should be includ-ed in the lexicon~ or treated as encyclopaedic information,which pertains to such or other domain of science, speciali-zation, etc.
The arbitrariness of this division ooncerns,lhowever, usually the boundary problems with respect towhich such quest ions  a r i se ,  but  i t  does not  e f fec t  the  fac t-5-that in the majority of problems there is a general agreem-ent of lin6uists as to what syntactical and lexical inform-ation should be included in the linguistic description insome or other way.
Once such a decision is made, and the in-formation is included in a lin6uistic description, we shouldbe able to define clearly what consequences can be drawn onthe basis of a given utterance and linguistic quasi iMplica-tions, and what ones require additional premisses which be-l on~ to  the  knowledge o f  the  wor ld .To g ive  an  example ,  we may say  that  a speaker  or  authoruses  appropr ia te ly  7 the  u t terance  :(1 )  ~ ixon  has  le f t  the  Un i ted  States8only if his purported belief is that :(la) there is one and only "object" which is bein~ referredto bj him as "Nixon"(Ib) there is one and only "object" which is being referredto by him as "the United States"(1?)
Nixon was in the United States beforeand if his purported claim is that :(1~)  N ixon i s  not  in  the  Un i ted  States  a t  that  t ime.The propos i t ions  ( la ,  lb ,  l c  and ld )  can  be  der ived  fo rmal -l y  from (I) on the basis of certain linguistic quasi i~pli-cations 9, and they be low,  among ethers, to the set of con-sequences which constitutes the interpretation of (I).
On theother hand, the proposition(le) The President of the United States has left the UnitedState sis a conclusion based on the premiss :"Nixon is the PresidentOf the United States"~ which may belong to the speaker's andheater's knowledge of the wOrld, but if not included in the-6 -descr ip t ion  of  the  lex icon ,  i t  w i l l  not  be der ived  fo rmal -l y  as  a consequence .It is worth noting that the propositions (la, Ib, ic)concern the speaker's purported beliefs, whereas the pro-pOs i t ion  ( ld )  concerns  the  speaker ' s  purpor ted  c la im orassertion.
The difference is significant, for if we con-vert (I) into a ~aestion, negation, wish, command, etc(Has Nixom left the United S~ates.
E ~ixon has not left theUni ted  States ,  I want Nixon to  leave  the  Un i ted  States ,  e tc )then the consequences pertaini~6 to the speaker's beliefswill remain the same, and it is only the consequence (Id)pertalnin6 to the speaker's assertion that will becomeoorrespomdln61y d/fferent.
In general all the consequen-ces der ived  from an ut terance  can be accepted  on ly  as  aset  of  p ropos i t ions  which cor respond to  the  purpor ted  a t -t i tude  of the  speaker ,  n .~ as a set  of  p ropos i t ions  whichho ld  t rue .
The quest ion  of w~ether  such propos i t ions  aretrue or not is not a linguistic question, similarly as theproblem of whether the "object" being referred to existsin reality or is to be assumed in the context of a novel 10In terms of the approach suggested here~ontological consld-erations have no beariD6 on the LS structure descriptionof utterances, from which ~he same consequences can bed~awn~independently of whether the speaker is sayIn6 theltruth or lyin6, whether  he is re la t i~ his dream, tellln6a s tory  or  repcr t iDg  fac ts .In  th i s  paper  we w i l l  d i scuss  on ly  those  aspects  o f  theLS s t ructure  representat ion  which concern  cer ta in  l i z~ is t -- ?
-i c  quant i fy iD~ operator2.
As in  genera l  we assume that  theLS s~ructure  could be represented  in  a language somehow an-a logous to that  of a modi f ied  pred icate  ca lcu lus ,  our aimin  the present  d i scuss ion  i s  to  suggest  a cer ta in  w~y of de f -in ing  the use of l ingu is t i c  quant i fy i~ ,  operators  whichwould be in  agreement with the in terpreta t ion  o f  u t te rancesin  natura l  language ~ the present  paper i s  concerned with11 Eng l i sh  u t te rances  only.The problem of de f in ing  the use of  l ingu is t i c  quant i fy ingoperators  in  the LS s t ruc ture  descr ip t ion  seems to  be oneof  g reat  s ign i f i cance  fo r  the semant ic  in terpreta t ion  ofthe sur face  syntact i c  re la t ions ,  fo r  i t  appears that  i t  i shard ly  poss ib le  to ass ign  an adequate semant ic  in terpreta -t ion  12 to an u t te rance ,  i f  i t s  LS s t ruc ture  i s  not  conce ivedof in terms of at least one predlcate and its ars~ment (orarguments) prefixed by some linguistic quantl fyi~ operator.AD~thing we talk about~ that is~ any subject (or sub~ects)of predication, is either a particular "object", a particul-ar relation between "objects" of some sort, a particular si-tuatlon, event, stc~ or else it m~y be a certain number 13 of~'objects"p situations, etc which are such and such, or final-ly the subject of predication may be each "obJect"~ situation,ere, which is such and such.
Generally speaki~, en utteranceis analogous to a logical sentence or proposltion~ ratherthan to a propositional function with free variables~ and~hus the LS structure of an utterance may be best conceive~as a fo~nula in which ~e make use of some sort of lin@~ulst~Io quantlfyin~ operators.-8-The analogy with the language of predicate calculus is notvery precise though, and - as we shall try to show - the lin-guistic quantifying operators must be defined differently thanthese defined in logic.
In the first place, there is a great-er number of linguistic devices which function as quantifiersof some sort, and in the second place, even those devices whichshow an analogy with the operators used in logic have a slight-ly different semantic function and cannot be defined for ouruse in the same way as those defined in logic.
In the pres-ent paper we shall discuss only two linguistic quantifyingoperators I@, one being analogous to the iota operator def-ined for the predicate calculus, the other one being analog-ous to the general quantifier.2- The linguistic iota operatorThe iota operator, as defined in logic 15  can he used inthe expression (~x)~(x) ,on ly  if the propositional functionis a unit function, that is, if it satisfies two con-ditions, one concerning the existence, the other the unique-ness of the "object" which is ~ .
Such conditions ms2 beexpressed formally asThe express ion  (~x)~(x)  has the category of an argument(not of a statement), and may be interpreted as the Englishexpression of the category of a nominal phrase, namely, :"thatone and only ob jec t  which i s  ~ ".Now when comparing the express ions  in  Eng l i sh  which have-9-a similar semantic function as the un i t  function, namely,lingulstlc indices 16, it is immediately obvious that weare not in a position to prove that they satisfy the con-ditions of existence and uniqueness, on the contrary, itwould be hard if not impossible to find a single lin6ulst~ci ndex  which ,  as  such,  would sat i s fy  such cond i t ions .~evertheless, it is an empirical fact quite evlden~ ~hatwhenever  an addresser  uses  an u t te rance  conta in iDg  an in -dex  ~ in the normal ~ process of communicatlon, itis always in accordance with his purported belief thatthere is one and only "object" which is being referred toas ~ ?I n  cont rad is t inc t ion  to  a fo rmal  sys tem for  wh ich  wehave  ~e def ine  the  ru les  and cond i t ions  of  cor rec t  use ,the  l ingu is t  works in  the  oppos i te  d i rec t ion .
For  we a l -rea~7 have a given system which we all use successfullyfo r  the  purpose  of in tercommunAcat ion ,  and the  l ingu is t ' sor the semanticist's job is to detect the rules that makepossible the achievement of mutual understandln 6 among~he competent  users  o f  the  g iven  language sys tem?
Thusin the first place we can analyse utterances only withthe assumption that they are used appropriately - other-wise no consistent analysis would have been possible.The appropriate use of language, as defined for our pur-pOSeSD is nothing mere than a use which is consistent with~he rules of language and with the speaker's purportedpropositional attitudes.
It would be thus unreasonable~o reject such an obvious assumption.- lO -We may t ry t then) to  es tab l i sh  quas i  imp l i ca t ions  ~ l i ch  w i l lhe ld  t rue lTand thus  y ie ld  the  cor respond i~ consequences  fo ra l l  eases  o f  l in6u is t i c  use  in  the  process  of communicat ion .Accord in61y ,  we w i l l  show that  what  i s  de f ined  as  a cond i t ionof  cor rect  use  in  a fo rmal  sys tem,  w i l l  be  der ivab le  in  ouroase  as  a consequence  o f  a g iven  ut terance .In  the  second p lace ,  we take  in to  account  the  fac t  thatu t te rances  of  natura l  lan6uage are  never ,  so to  speak ,  hun6in  the  a i r ,  but  a re  a lways  in terpretab le  in  te rms of  what  we18 ca l l  the  propos i t iona l  a t t i tude  p or  moda l  f rame 19 when re fer -r iD6  to  i t s  exp l i c i t  representat ion .
For  no u t terance  usedin  the  process  o f  communicat ion  can  be  fu l l y  in terpretedw i thout  our  unders tand iD6 i t  as  a propos i t ion  wh ich  expresses ,amoD6 other  th ings ,  the  speaker ' s  or  author ' s  p ropos i t iona lattitudes, which may be beliefs, assertions, doubts, requests( fo r  o ra l  o r  o ther  responses)  o r  any o ther  a t t i tudes .Accord in6  to  such  an  argumentat ion ,  the  propos i t ions  wh ichcor respond to  the  two cond i t ions  fo r  the  cor rect  use  of  aun i t  funct ion ,  (a )  and (b ) ,  w i l l  be accepted  in  our  case  asconsequences  wh ich  be loD6 to  the  in terpretat ion  of  any ut ter -ance  ~ conta in in8  a l ingu is t i c  index  .
Such propos i t ionscannot ,however ,  be  represented  as  ocour r in~ in  an  asser tor iomodal frame, but in the modal frame :"The speaker believesthat ... " (where the term "believe" is used in the sense ofpurported belief).
The quasi implicational scheme on whichsuch consequences are drawn is roughly speakin6 as follows:For any linguistic index ~ , the speaker uses appropriate-W ~ only if he believes that there is an "object" which ly- l l -i s  ~ , and  that  the  "ob jec t "  be ing  re fer red  to  as  ~ i sun i  que.S ince  the  consequent  o f  th i s  s ta tement  can  be  assumed toexpress  one o f  the  necessary  cond i t ions  fo r  the  antecedent  20,we ma~ cons ider  the  whole s ta tement  as  a quas i  iMp l i ca t i sn .Thus in  the  case  of  any  ut terance  which conta ins  a l in@uis t -accepti c  index ,  we may ~ a s ta tement  cor respon~ing  tothe  antecedent  as  ho ld~ t rue  - by  v i r tue  of  our  genera lassumpt ion  of  appropr ia te  use  - end there fore  we can  a l -ways in fe r  the  cor respond ing  consequent  as  a consequence .We thus  preserve  the  un iqueness  of  the  purpor ted  "ob jec t "by  means of  inser t ing  in to  the  common (and  thus  in tersub Jee-t i re )  semant ic  in terpretat ion  of  ind ices  a parameter  wh ichi s r t token- re f lex iverPand wh ich  serves  i t s  purpose(a~ t ime anut terance  i s  ac tua l ly  used~ in  re la t ing  s igns  to  ext ra l in -~st i c  "ob jec ts"  o r  re la t ions , throug~h the  ident i f i ca t iono f  the  speaker ,  the  t ime,  p lace  and s i tuat ion  in  wh ich  ~heg iven  ut terance  i s  used .
Accord ing ly ; the  va lue  o f  the  argum-ent  - wh ich  in  the  case  under  d i scuss ion  i s  a l ingu is t i c  in -dex~ is understood in any particular case, without beingpossibly indicated in a general linguistic description.
Inrefersother words~ the fact that the speaker ~ to  oneam~ only "object"!
each time he is using an imde~ belongs tothe  semantic Interpretatlonpan~ is reflected in the  propose~LS structure representation and the corresponding consequen-ces "which ere derivable from It, but the question of what"object" me~ actually be identified by means of such an ex-pression does not belong to the domain of lingaistics?- 12  -A~ such  "ob jec t "  m~y on ly  be  descr ibed  in  te rms of  l ingu is t -i c  express ions  - i t  may e i ther  be  po in ted  to  by  means  o fa name used  as  an  index ,  o r  descr ibed  in  te rms o f  the  lex -i ca l  i tems conta ined  in  the  de f in i te  descr ip t ion  used  as  an21index .
A l ingu is t  so lves  thus  the  prob lem of  how an  "ob-jec t "  i s  descr ibed  or  po in ted  to  in  o rder  to  be  ident i f ied ,and  he  ~ not  be  concerned  w i th  Iha___~t i t  i s .It thus appears that the  lin6uistic iota operator is aclose analog to the iota operator as defined in logic, thed i f~erences  ly ing  in  our  t reat ing  the  cond i t ions  of  cor rectuse  de f ined  in  log ic  as  the  consequences  of  the  ever -assumedappropriate use of utterances, and in our introducing thepropositional attitudes into the LS structure description.As it will be argued below, the next linguistic quantifyin~operator to be discussed in this paper, namely, the all-op-erator, will also be defined partly by analogy to the iotaoperator, for the reasons based on linguistic evidence.The all-operatorIn the preceding section we have discussed a certain typeof ars~Ament prefixed by the iota operator.
Such an argum-ent will be referred to as an argument of type I.
Its ex-plicit exponent on the surface can only be a linguisticindex, and its role is to indicate one and only "object"to which a given predicate applies.
At present we willdiscuss another type of argument - which will be referredto as an argument of type 2 - whose role is to indicate allthe "objects" to which a given predicate applies.
The ex-plicit exponents on the surface of English utterances areusually nominal phrases preceded by "all", "every", "each".-13-However, i t  i s  not  a lways  the  case  that  such  nomina l  phrasesare  to  be  in terpreted  as  a rguments  of  type  2 (cons iderphrases such as, for instance, "all the country", every sec-ond French man", "each time", etc).
Let us now discuss thefollowln6 examples by means of which we will show the anal-ogy between arguments of type 1 and those of type 2.
(2) John has awaken(3) JY father has awaken(4) Ky parents have awaEen(5) All the members of my family have awaken(6) All the inhabitants of this house have awaken(7) All the inhabitants of the moon have awakenIndependently of other problems connected with the properLS structure representation of utterances in which a pred i~applies to each individual of a set determined by a given ~es-22cription, we have to admit that all the nominal phrases inour examples have a similar function ; they serve to identifyeither a single individual (utterances 2 and 2), or a certainnumber of individuals (utterances 4,5, 6 and 7), and thusserve to indicate the values of the argument used with thepredicate "has awaken".
Thus if we compare :(8) The boy standing in the doorway is tallwith(9) All the boys standing in the ~oorw~7 are tallit seems clear that the difference between the t~ lies inthat the nominal phrase in (8) serves to indicate or identifyone indlvldual~ whereas the nominal phrase in (9) serves to in-dicate or identify a certain number of individuals, both n@~-inal phrases beinK used as "instructions" for identification,and as such correspond to the argument of the predicate "tall".Such "instructions " are used approprlatelyponly if the speak-er believes that there is a boy standing in the doorway (for8 ) and that  there  i s  more than one boy s tand in  6 in  the  door -way ( fo r  9) .
Consequent ly  by v i r tue  of  our Keneral  assmap-t ion  of appropr ia te  use,  i t  i s  poss ib le  to  in fe r  such pseudo-existential propositions in the model frame "The speaker be-lieves that ?
?..
"One might object to this interpretation of all-statementsand t ry ,  by ana logy  to log ica l  s ta tements  wi th a genera l  quan-t i f i e r ,  to  in terpret  them as imp l i ca t iona l  s ta tements  :For  a~if x is ~ , then x is ~ .
Under such an interpreta- xpt ion  the u t te rance  (9)  would be a paraphrase  of  --(i0) If anythlng is a boy standing in the doorway it is tallIf anybody is a boy stsnding in the doorway he is tallAnybody who is a boy standin6 in the doorway is tallEven if we ignore ~he awkwardness of utterances such as (i0),we cannot accept such utterances as paraphrases of (9) forreasons.
First, (i0) could, then, equally well be taken as aparaphrase of (9) as that of (87, as there is no uention withrespect to the plurality of the individuals being referred to.Thus (i0) could be accepted as one of the consequences from(9 ) ,  (and th i s  w i l l  be shown below to  be the case) ,  but  not  asan equivalent proposition.
Second,, the speaker implies by (9)his purportecl belief that there are individuals who are boysstanding in the doorw~7, whereas no such izplication bho ldsfor (10).
To give a clearer example, if someone says(11) All the inhabitants of the moon must feel coldthe heater's reaction might be expressed by ~'"~at are ~ou- 15 -ta lk lng  about.
~- There are no inhabitants on the moon."
On theother hand, no such reaction would follow if someone says :(12) If anything is an inhabitant of the moon it must feel coldThe response might then be : "Right you are, but fortunatelythere are no inhabitants on the moon".
?nother  a rgument  suppor t in6  th i s  in terpretat ion  may be  prov id -ed  by  the  fo l low in6  tes t .
I f  we cons ider  the  u t terance :(13)  I doubt  whether  there  are  inhab i tants  on the  moon, buta l l  inhab i tants  o f  the  moon must  fee l  co ldit leaves the impression of a certain awkwardness, ~hich is aresu l t  o f  the  incons is tency  between the  expressed  doubt  andthe  i~ l ied  be l ie f  concern ing  the  same propos i t ion .
On theo ther  hand,  the  u t terance  :(1~)  I doubt  whether  there  are  inhab i tants  on the  moon, but  i fanyth ing  i s  an  inhab i tant  oZ the  moon i t  must  fee l  co lddoes  not  seem awkward, s ince  accord ing  to  our  a rgumentat ionimplicational statements do not imply ext7 belief or assumptionconcernlng existence.
Evidently there are different i~ l ioa -tional rules concerning the if.oothen-statements, and theydepend on the tense used in the If-clauseo If we denote theif-clause by S~ the hea~er may infer, for instance~ that thespeaker believes that S~ or believes that it is not the casethat S~ or believes that it is probable that S~ etcoIn any case~ it seems clear for the reasons ~iven abovethat (I0) is not  a paraphrase of (9), nor (12) is a paraphraseof (11).
In spite of the fact that implicational statementscan be considered as truthfunctionally equivalent to the cor-responding all~statements (and this is the basis of the log~Ic-al equivalence)~ yet they cannot be represented by the same- 16 -LS  s t ructure ,  fo r  obv ious ly  the  la t te r  convey  add i t iona l  sem-ant ic  in fo rmat ion ,  that  i s ,  add i t iona l  consequences  can  be  in -fe r red  f rom them.A?cord in61y ,  ins tead  o f  mak ing  use  of  a genera l  quant i f ie r ,we w i l l  in t roduce  a quant i fy ing  operator  wh ich  we mal l  a l l -op -e ra tor .
The a l l -operator  i s  assumed to  be  an  argument - fo rmingeperator ,  not  a s ta tement - fo rming  speratorp  as  in  the  case  o fa genera l  quant i f ie r  in  leg ic .
In  o ther  words ,  i t  i s  not  anoperator  wh ich  makes  a s ta tement  when pre f ixed  to  a propos i -t iona l  fo rm,  but  one wh ich  makes an  argument  when pre f ixedto  a funct ion  represent ing  a nomina l  phrase  in  the  p lura lro leform.
It ~hus has the same ~ as the iota operator, whichis used to make an expression of ~he category of an argument 23.We assume here that the all-operator belongs to a speclf-ic class of modifiers which we call ~ linguistic quantl-lying operators.
Such operators will occur in the LS structurerepresentation;always being prefixed to a variable x.A logical statement which is prefixed by a general quantifierwith limited range ?is an abbreviation fo r  the i~l ieat ional  statementWe will, however, use a different expression, provisionallydenoted by (All x) ~ (x), which will not be interpreted asa statement equivalent to an impli'cati@nal statement, but- by analogy to the expression bound by the iota operator -it will be interpreted as an expression of the argumenttype : all the "objects" which are ~ .
According to ouri n te rpretat ion ,  the  cor respond ing  imp l i ca t iona l  s ta tement- 17  -will be accepted as one of the consequences which followfrom a l l - s ta tements .By analogy to  the case of  the io ta  operator ,  we canhere  a l so  es tab l i sh  a quasi  imp l i ca t ion  concern ing theuse of  the a l l -operatorpon  the bas i s  of  ~he empi r i ca l l yg iven  cond i t ions  of  appropr ia te  use of a l l - s ta tementsConsider the fo l low ing  propos i t iona l  schemes:(a) There is more than one "object" which is,or any "objeot-.
if it i, .
it isThe two propos i t iona l  schemes correspond to propos i t ionswhich may be cons idered  only  in  terms of cer ta in  propos i -~ionsu% at t i tu?es  of the speaker  who i s  ut-ber iag an a l l -s ta tement .
We ma~ def ine  a genera l  quasi  impl icat ionsulscaeme whiCh, rough ly ,  w i l l  be as fo l lows :A speaker  uses  appropr ia te ly  an a l  !
s ta tementpon ly  i f  h i spurpoz~ed be l ie f  i s  that  there  i s  more than one "ob jec t "w~ich i s  ~ , and h i s  pu~or ted  c la im i s  that  any "ob-jec t "  which i s  ~ i s  ~ ?Now by our genera l  assumption that  we are concerned on lywi th those u t te rances  which are appropr ia te ly  used, we canalways der ive  a propos i t ion  cor respond ing  to (a)  as repre -sent ing  the  speaker ' s  be l ie f ,  and a propos i t ion  cor respond-tng to  (b)  as the speaker ' s  c la im or  asser t ion ,  and bothbelong to  the  set  of consequences of an a l l - s ta tement .The d i f fe rence  between the speaker ' s  p ropos i t iona l  a t t i -%-ude with z~spect to (a) and (b) is analogous ~hen ~e con-vert an all-sta~ement into a corresponding negation, question,\~ ~8 mrequest ,  doubt ,  e tc ,  fo r  i t  w i l l  appear  that  the  propos i t ion~or respoD~l ing  to  (a )  in  t h e ~  f rame "The speaker  be l ievesthat  .
.
. "
can  be  der ived  as  a consequence ,  whereas  the  propo-s i t ion  oor respond i~ to  (b ) la l thoug~a a lso  der ivab le  as  a con-sequence ,  w i l l  occur  in  each  ease  in  a d l f?erent  modal  f rame,~h ich  w i l l  express  cor respond ing ly  the  var ious  propos i t iona la t t i tudes  o f  the  speaker  (The speaker  den ies  that  ?
.
.
,  q~aespeaker  wants  to  know i f  .
?
.
,  e tc )For  ins tance ,  fo r  the  u t terance  wh ich  i s  a ~uest ion  :(17) ~e all the inhabitants of this house sick.
~we have a set of consequences to which belong, among otherpropositions, the following two :(18) The speaker believes that there is more than one "object"whlch is an inhabitant of this house(19) The speaker wants to know if eu~ "object" which is aninllabitant of this house is sick.These aonsequsnces are obtained on the basis of a very ~ener-al quasi impllcational scheme conoerniD~ all-stateRents con-verted into this type of questions.In conclusion it may be ~r th  emphasizin~ that by intro-?
uciDg propositional attitudes into the lin~Aistic desc~il>-tion,a~i by defining quasi i~plications in terms of proposi-tional attitudes, we are able to derive the correspondlngconsequences not only from declarative sentences, but fromall ~y~es of utterances.
Thus the scope of our rules of in-lference ~ is much wider than the scope of such rulesin logic.
Accordln~ly the identification of the semantic in~terpretation of  an  utterance with the  set of its consequen-ces is possible for all types of utterances.
2~- 19  -Footnotes1.
See U. Wein~eich, Exp lora t ion  in  Semantic Theory, inCurrent  Trends in  L ingu is t i cs ,  Vol.
3, e4.
T.A.
Sebeok,Mouton, The Ha6ue, 1966, where the author  argues infavor  of an approach which makes no at tempt  "to fenceoff mutually exclusive domains for syntax and semantics"and thus he is against the assumption that semanticsbegins  where syntax ends.
Deep s t ruc tures  are con-ceived of by him in terms of both the syntactical andthe semantic relations.2.
Such signs have been widely discussed by logicians andllnguiets.
They are referred to as token reflexivesigns (by Hans Reichenbach), as egocentric particulars(by Bert rand Russe l l ) ,  and as sh i f te rs  (by Roman Jakob-son~.3- Roman Jakobson, On L ingu is t i c  Aspects of T rans la t ion ,  inOn Translation, ed.
R.A. Brower, Oxford University Press,New York, 1966, p.
232.@.
See C.J.
Lewis, The Models of HeaDing, Philosophy andPhenomenological Research, Vol.
IV, No 2, 19~,  for hisconoept of connotation or  intention, which bears an in-~an~l G. F rege '~fluence of J.S.
Uill~s ?
ee a so R. Carnap, Em-piricimm, semantics and ontology, in Revue Internationalede Philosophie~ No @, 1950, where the author accepts theview that the set of consequences following from a sen-fence may be identified with the meaning of that sen-tence.
Such an idea was also professed by H. Hi~ duringhis lectures on semantics (University of Pennsylvania,- 20  -?
1965).5- The conoept of quasi impl icat ions was Introduced in  mypapers  : On a Cond i t ion  of %he Coherence of Texts ,paper  de l ivered  a t  the In ternat iona l  ~mposiue onSemiot i cs ,  Warsaw, Aueust, 1968 j On the Semantic  In -te rpreta t ion  of  Sub jec t -P red icate  Re la t ions  in  Sentencesof  Par t i cu la r  Re ference ,  to  appea~ in  P rogress  in  L ln -~t i s t i cs ,  eds.
B ie~r l sch  and HeidolI~h, Mouton e t  Go.,~he Hague ~ Ar~mente  and Pred icates  in  the  Log ico -8emanti@ St ructure  of Ut te rances ,  to  appear in Stud iesin  Syntax and Semant ics ,  ed.
F. K ie fe r ,  Foundat ions ofLanguage Supplementamy Series, D. Reidel et Go., Dor-drecht-H elland.6.
The term logico-semantic structure was used in my foa-mer papers (see footnote 5)-7- In 5eneral I say that a speaker uses appropriately anexpression or an utterance, if he uses it consistentlywith the rules of languaKe an~ with hie purported be-liefs (see footnote 8, for the term "purported belief").For a consistent semantic interpretation of utterances,we have to cons i4er  on ly  those u t te rances  which areused appropr ia te ly ,  as the  appropr ia te  use in  th i ssense of  the  term i s  noth in~ more than the assumpt ion~hat the speaker  knows the lan6uage he i s  us ing  andsays only  what he in tends  to  gay  ( he makes a cor rec tuse of  an u t te rance  accor~i~ 8 wi th  what he wants to  say) .8.
From the point of view of the semantic interpretation,it is irrelevant whether the speaker in fact believes- 21  -o r  only pretends to believe that such and such is thecase.
I therefore use the term "purported belief",and ~nenever I use here the expression "The speakerbelieves that ..." it is only in this sense of theterm.
The same holds true of any other propositionalattitudes.9- Linguistic quasi implications can be defined for theuse of lexical items and for the use of certain struc-tures.
In our example, the consequences (la) and (Ib)ere based on a quasi implication concerning the usejof linguistic indices (see Section 2, below), where-as the consequences (Ic) and (Id) are based on a quasiimplication defined for the lexical item "to leave"(For more details, see the section on implicativeterms in my paper On a Condition of the Coherence ofTexts, op.
cir.)10.
The term "object" is used here also in the sense of"purported object", that is, for anything namable.Evidently the knowledge of the type of discourse(everyday, scientific~ literary, etc) may tell uswhether the speaker or author believes that a given"object" exists in reality, or it is to be assumedas in a hypothetieal theory, or imagined as in a nov-el.
But such n considerations have no bearing onour present discussion.11.
In general, it seems that the concepts we are  discus-sing concern other languages as well.
If in a givenlanguage there are no explicit exponents on the sur-face which would correspond to the interpretationwe are assuming, for instance, for linguistic in-- 22  -d ices  used in English, the~e are probably some way todistinguish the utterances in terms of similar con-aepts, for it is hard to imagine how people couldmanage to communicate without maklr~ use of this rath-er general concept and others discussed here.12.
By an adequate semantic interpretation I mean suchan interpretation which is compatible with the lin-~alstic intuitions of coherent speakers, and testablea~ainst the practice of linguistic communication.
Ex-amples of ?
such semantic tests are given below (p.14,15),13.
The number may be exactly specified by a numeral, orexpressed in an indefinite way, for instance, by wordssuch as "man~", "few", "the majority of", etc.14.
See my paper, Arguments and Predicates...", op.
clt.for a rough discussion of Other quantifying operators.15.
The iota operator was first defined and used by Peano,then by Russell, Reichenbach, Mostowski and severalother logicians.16.
A lin~ulstio index was defined in my paper, On the Sem-antic Interpretation .. :, op.
cir.
Rou6hly, a liD6uist--ic index is a personal pronoun, a proper name or a def-inite description (that is, a nominal phrase precededby a definite determiner, used in an identifying role)17.
In general the quasi implications which we define holdtrue by virtue of the empirically ~iven conditions.The truth of the consequent in our quasi ilpllcationsalways constitutes the necessary condition for the truth-2~-of the antecedent, and thus we may consider the mhole asa valid conditional (material implication).It may be interesting to compare the various approachesto the concept of"presupposltions" (as referred to in theliteratu~re),which we describe here as consequences.
(SeeG.
Fre~e, Sinn und Bedeutung, Zeitschrift fur Philosophieund philosophische Kritik, 1892 ~ P.F.
Strawson, On Refer-ring, ~ind, 1950; O. Ducrot, Los pr~supposSs, conditionsd'emplo~ ou @l@ments de contenu, paper delivered at the In-ternational Symposium on Semiotics, Warsaw, 1968 ~ A. Wierz-bicka, 0 sp6jno~ci semantycznej tekst-u wielozdaniowego,paper delivered at the Conference on Semiotics, IBL, War-saw, 1968 ~ C.J.
Fillmore, Types of Lexical Information,Working Papers in Linguistics, i~o 2, The Ohio State Univer-sity, november 1968~ ?
In the present approach, presuppo-sitions are identified with those propositions which belongto the set of consequences following from a given utteranceand are provided with the modal frame :"The speaker be-lieves that...': Such propositions belong accordingly to thesemantic interpretation of a given utterance.
This approachis close to that of O. Ducrot (Les presupposes..., op.cit.
),who also treats such propositions as constituting part ofthe meaning of a given utterance, rather than as the requ-ired conditions of use9 or as propositions which are pre-supposed to be known by the hearer, etc.
The differencebeSween the two approaches (which have been developed in-dependently of each other) consists thus in my attempt to-24 -account  fo r  th i s  e lement of the man i~ of a Given ut -te rance  by scans  of  der iv in~ such propos i t ions  as con-sequences baaed on the cor responding quasi  i~ l i ca t ionsdefined for partlcule~ lexical items and particularstructures.
Such a treatment is consistent with thegeneral proposal to identify ~he mean i~ ~ an utter~ance with the set of its consequences.Fillmore, on the other hand, distinguishes between"the presupposltional aspect of the semantic structureof a predicate and the "meenln~" proper of the pred-icate".
He identifies the presuppositions of a sen-tence as those conditions which must be satisfied be-fore the sentence can be used in an~ of its functions.Thus the sentence "Please open the door" according toFillmore (Types of Lexlcal luformation, op.
cit)"cenbe used as a command only if the TL " (that is, theaddressee) "is in a position to know what door hasbeen mentioned a~l onl~ if that door is not at TLA"(that is, the time of producing the utterance) "open".According to my approach, such an utterance will bei n te rpreted  in  any case as a command, fo r  i t s  in ter -p re ta t ion  cannot be dependent on whether the abovement ioned cond i t ions  a re ,o r  are  notpsat ie f ied .
Sup-pose I hear  somebody r ing ing  the be l l  add I ask mys i s te r  P lease  open the door" .
I~ may happen that  the~oor i s  open a t  that  t~me, but  the s ta te  of the door( i t s  be i~ open or  c losed)  has no bea~i~ on the in -te rpreta t ion  of  th i s  u t te rance  - which in  any case10.19.20.- 25  -i s  intende& by the addresser, and interpreted by theaddressee, as a command.
Thus, as it appears from theevidence of fan .age use, it is only the addresser'spurported belief :"The door is not open" which maybe safely assumed with respect to the given utterance.The term "propositional attitude" is adopted from Ber-trand Russell, Inquiry into Meaning and Truth (Pen-guin Books, Baltimore-Maryland, 1962).The term "modal frame" has been coined by A. Wierzbicka(0 sp6jno~ci semantycznej..., op.
cir, and her o~herpapers).
I use the term "propositional attitud~'whenreferring to the content oi" an utterance, and the term"modal frame", when referring to its explicit repres-entation (which in the present paper is only renderedi n  words ).This thesis is based on empirical evidence.
If weseem to find apparent counterexamples, it always ap-pears that they are cases of linguistic misuse, andthus they do not falsify lu~ the quasi implication,in such oases the antecedent is false.
We are con-cerned, of course, only with the normal use of utter-anoes in the process of communication, not with casesin which utterances are used as examples, when in-dices are not supposed to identify anything.There remains one more remark to be made in connection~ith our quasi implicational scheme.
The copula "is"~aich is used in the consequent should be interpretedas, so to speak, tenseless, for its tense is dependent- 26  -the  tense of the verb in  the pred icate  which app l iesto the "ob jec t "  re fer red  to by ~ in  a g iven  ut ter  ~a~lce .21.
The definite description used as an index is bestconceived of as an "instruction" for identlfieaticn.The linguist is thus concerned with what the "instruc-tion says, rather than with the problem of what agiven "object" is.
The "object" in our sense of theterm mej be conceived of as just the value of theargument ?22.
Notice incidentally that there is a differenae bet-ween utterances such as (4) and, for instance, "XYparents bought a house", where the desor lp~on "myparents" should be represented as a linguistic in-dex (argument of type I~ which has a unique value)by means of which we identify one and only neglect"(a couple of individuals as a ~hole ) to which the~iven predicate applies.
The predicate is not usedhere distributively as in the case of (~), inhere itapplies to each individual referred to by the des-cription "my parents".23.
The expression (~ x )~(X)  is interprete~ as "thatone and only object which is ~ ", add not as "thereis one and only object which is V ".1 24.
Finally, I wish to excuse myse f for a ratheE looseway I am using certain terms which are well definedin lo~ic (for instance, arE~,ment, value).
I hope ,\- 27  -however, ~at  the reader will get from my roughpresentation the underlying linguistic conceptswhich I a~temp~ed to submit for discussion.7
