A NOTE ON MOR2H~E STRUCTURE IN GENF~TIVEFrances KarttunenThe University of Texas at AustinAustin, Texas U.S.A. 78712In an early model of generative phonologythe lexicon of a language contained entries withas few feature specifications as possible in theinterest of economy.
The blank feature specificationsrepresenting both nondistinctive features and thoserendered redundant by sequential constraints werefilled in by the same 9honological rules.
At thispoint, the concept of ~ rules changing featurevalues was unclear.When the distinction between rules that fillin blanks and those that change feature va luesbecame clear, it was zmbodied in the conceptof morpheme structure rules and P rules.
TheMS rules were further split into featureredundancy (segment structure) rules andsequ~tial constraint rules.
The MS componentbore a striking resemblence to the earlier"pkonotactic" sections of autonomous phonemicanalyses, but the claim was made for I~S ~ lesthat they explained what phonotactiee merelydescribed.
The MS rules formed a major part ofChomsky's "readjustment component" which renderedth~ output of the syntactic component fit to bethe input to the phonological component.
A fairlycurrent version of ~his model is the followingone from Harms' Introduction t__oo Phonologicalc~)2.
(I) Sequential  constraint rules and blank f i l l ingrules fil l in redundant features in lexical items.
(2) These lexical items are inserted into theoutput of the transformational component.
(3) Phonological  rules, some ut i l iz ing syntacticinformation, operat~ on these strings.This model takes the lexical entry to be aprime of sorts.
Within the lexical entry, seg-mental  features are not specif ied if they can bepredicted.
If all obstruents in a language arevoiceless, voice is specif ied for the obstruentsin all lexical items by the redundancy rule~+obs~ ~ ~-vc~ .
If the only possible initialconsonant in a triple cluster is s, then only~+cons~ is given in the lexical entry.
Therest of the dist inctive features for s are f i l ledin by a sequantial constraint r~le and the addit ionalnondist inct ive ones by a redundancy rule or rules.Harms' model orders all redundancy rules beforethe phonological rules.
This ordering excludesHalle's solut ion for the exception of i and efrom Finnish vowel harmony, which places the harmonyrule before the redundancy rule specifging gravityfor i and e. ("On the Bases of Phonology",The Structure of Language, 1964, p. 332)The fol lowing diagram represents Harms' model.3.Output of theTransformationalComponentI_P rulesxical EntriesI sc rulesredundancy rulesSystematic iPhonemeInv____entory ,?
~ -n~ry  feature values JPhOnetic Output4.Grouped together as morpheme structurerules (~S rules), sequautial constraint rulesand redundancy rules, according to proponentsof this model, account for the acceptabilityof some strings as possible morphemes in alanguage and the rejection of others.If we consider the problem of the acceptabilityof strings of a language's sequential phonemes(English has ~ and l, but ~l in is not possible.
),then we might justifiably characterize mor-pheme structure rules as generating all and onlythe possible morphemes (stems, affixes, anduninflected particles) of the language.
Isthis equivalent to the function of the ~Srules in the model above?There seems to be the following conceptualdifference.
The model descrioed starts with thelexical entry, and the sequential constraintrules fill in ~istinctive features.
The inventoryof systematic phonemes is realized in the outputof the SC rules.It is not clear where or how the inventoryof a languages systematic phonemes fits into thismodel?
The fully specified phonemes are realizedin the output of the ~ rules.
The lexical entriesin some sense preexist the phoneme inventory,because they consist of incomplete feature matriceswhich are filled in by the NS rules.
How does one5.arrive at the existing and possible lexical items?To effect a saving of features in the lexicon,all fea~res  that can be determined from contextare left out of an entry.
Then MS rules fill themin.
In this way, according to Harms, "Morphemestructure rules can account for the fact thatnative speakers of a language agree with greatconsistency on which of several nonoccurrin~forms could be admitted as new morphemes intheir language."
(Intro.
to Phonol.
Th., p. 88)Is it possible that this phonological modeland its ~S rules can account for all and only theacceptable morphemes in a language?
If the ~S rulesare only blank-fil l ing rules, a completely new phonemecan be added at will to a language via this mode lby simply introducing it fully specified into alexical entz'y before the ~S rules.If, on the other hand, the MS rules are ableto reverse features in lexical entries, then ill-formed entries will be corrected.
In this case,tae lexicon may be full of impossible morphemes,and the NS rules act as a filter to pass onlywell-formed morphemes on to the phonologicalrules.6.The argument against this is that thelexicon must be as econlmical as possible.
Nofeatures, right or wrong, which are predictableby rule, are specified in the lexicon.Where do the lexical items come from then?And since the model under ~iscussionappl ies ~u~lesto items from the lexicon, not to s~rings Angeneral, what is the status of the acceptablestrings which do not, at a given moment, ~xistin the lexicon?
A test for acceptability of ahypothetical string might be whether the ~S rulescould fully specify its matrices without chang-ing any specified features.
If blanks remainedor features had to be changed, then the stringwould be judged unacceptable in the language.
Thistest would require that not only existing lexicalentries but also hypothetical strings of featurematrices be input to the ~ rules.
To whatever de-gree the model rejects or changes faulty inout,it is clearly an acceptor or filter rather thana generator.Unless the lexicon-~S component relationshipis completely circular (take out of the morphemeswhat can be put in by the ~S rules, list the remainsin the lexicon, and then fill them in again by the~S rules), there is no way to account for the well-formedness of the input to the ~ rules.In his elegant article, "Redundancy rules inphonology", Language 43.2, 1967, Richard Stanleyclearly demonstrated the different nature of re-dundancy and P rules (the former predicting featurevalues, the latter changing them) and the dangerof misusing featu~re blanks.
His proposalwas that phonological redundancy be embodied notin rules but in Morpheme Structure Conditions.The former had only the lexicon as their domainand were ordered before the P rules.
The latterhave all matrices in their domain and are notordered with respect to the P rules.To quote from Stanley:... A grammar of each natural language willhave, in place of a set of I~S rules, an unorderedfinite set M of I~ conditions.
This set will in-clude, in general, conditions of sash of the threetypes.
The set of all matrices m in U, such thatm is accepted by every ~ cmndition in M, iswell defined; we call this set M(U).Since each NS cmndition in M represents ageneralization about the morphemes of the language,it follows that the set M(U) represents all matriceswhich violate none of taese general izations.. .Insahort, the set M(U) is exactly the set of pos-sible morphemes of the language.
The segment structureconditions in M will guarantee that M(U) containsonly those matrices ~ose  columns are systematicphonemes of the language; the sequence structureconditions in M will guarantee that no seqummtialconstraints of the language are violated in matricesof M(U).
The set M of MS conditions may thus bethought of as filtering out, from the set U of~oall matrices, those matrices which do not form ppossible morphemes of the language, leaving theset M(U).
(Language 4~.2 p. 428)An alternative model of the phonologicalcomponent, differing from Stanley?
in that itviews the MS component as a generator ratherthan as a filter, assumes the language's fullYspecified systematic phonemes as primitives.
TheMS conditions are then constraints upon concatenationof submatrices of these matricies of phoneticfeatures.NSC omp.
I~oneme inventory \istinctive features specified)| - -~S-egment redundancy conditions Il (fill in nondistinctive features)~IConstrailnts oft co--ncatenatio----~ ~IOutput ofthe trans-f o rma ti onalc omp.LAll and only the possiblemorphemes of the languageI lexic?n i'-P ru .
les.The ~S component of this model generates alland only tile possible morphemes of the language.Of these, only a subset are exist ing lexical itemsassociated with syntactic and semantic if~formation.Given a hypothet ical  string, its accept-abi l i ty can be deterT~ined on two criteria.
First,is it composed of phonemes of the language?
CheEkthe inventory.
If so, are the phonemes concatenatedin a manner permitted by the Iris condit ions?
Ifthese condit ions are met, it may be a lexicalitem.
Is it associated with semantic and syntacticinf oinrm tion?10.The practical use of morpheme structureconditions in computation brin@ to mind an oldexample of the commercial aspects of phonotactics,namely to generate brand names for detergents,beauty products, etc.
more seriously, it isdesirable to have a system report immediatelya recognizable misprint or foreign word rather thanto search fruitlessly through dictionary storagefor the item.
~oreover, since dictionary storagemust be continually updated, it is importantfor a system to report possible new lexicalitems for inclusion.
