R.  M.  FRUMKINA - P. F. ANDRUKOVICH - A. YU.
TEREKHINACOMPUTATIONAL METHODS IN THE ANALYSISOF VERBAL BEHAVIOURThe paper attempts to contribute to the development of the math-ematical models of verbal behaviour by demonstrating the use of multi-dimensional individual scaling methods for differential representationof verbal perceptual structures.The method is illustrated with data on computational nalysis ofperception of letters of Russian alphabet.The main concern of computational linguistics (at least, of its theo-retically oriented branch) has been the automatic analysis or generationof written texts. "
Computational linguistic analysis " has thus becomea tool for the validation of linguistic methods and theories.Another branch of computational linguistics - a more empiricaland more practically-oriented one - has been largely restricted to dataprocessing and information - retrieval problems.It is safe to say that the full extent of the potential influence of thecomputational pproach upon the study of language functioning, thatis of speech perception and verbal behaviour has not been generallyrecognized.
Unlike psychologists, linguists have been rather slow toadopt computers for the development and evaluation of mathematicalmodels of verbal behaviour.
The present paper attempts to contributeto the development of such models by demonstrating the use of somecomputational approaches for differential representation of verbalperceptual structures.Speech perception may in a broad sense be defined as that part ofthe communication process taking place within the receiver.
We shouldtry to reach a more detailed view of the speech perception mechanism,that is to suggest some "white box" instead of the "black box"The common methodological premise for a model which accountsfor various aspects of the speech perception problem is a representationof any speech unit (a sound, a syllable, a word etc.)
as a point in a mul-tidimensional perceptual space with the perceived ifference between172 R. M. FRUMKINA-  P. F. ANDRUKOVlCH-  A. YU.
TEREKHINAsuch stimuli represented by the distance between the stimulus points.To develop a model for this psychological space we have: 1) todetermine the dimensionality of the space; 2) to describe the positionof the speech stimuli in question along the dimensions obtained; 3)to determine the position of the Ss perceiving the given set of speechstimuli with respect to these dimensions; 4) to suggest some linguisticand/or psychological interpretation of the discriminative dimensionsand of groupings (if any) of individuals having different " viewpoints"about stimulus interrelations.From the manner fia which Ss make perceptual similarity judgementsabout verbal stimuli t is possible to infer the dimensions of the givenset of stimuli which account for the responses obtained.Methods of multidimensional scaling provide us with highly sophis-ticated tools for making this inference.
The problem of multidimen-sional scaling broadly stated is to find n points whose interpoint distancesmatch in some sense the experimental similarities of n objects (insteadof similarities the experimental measurements may be dissimilarities,confusion probabilities or other measures).
Hence, we view muhidi'mensional scaling as a problem of statistical fitting - the similaritiesare given, and we wish to find the point configuration whose distancesfit them best.The well-known method of principal components can be used tofred out the most discriminative r sponse dimensions (W. S. TORG~R-SON, 1952).
Given data which represent onmetric information concern-ing perceived similarity of stimuli, this method aims at constructinga configuration of those stimuli in a best-fitting Euclidean subspace.The dimensions obtained are oriented along the latent vectors corre-sponding to the most valued latent roots of similarity matrix.
Methodof principal components gives a linear orthogonal projection in a bestfitting subspace.There exists, however, another class of methods which provide forthe mapping of raw data by some kind of non-linear transformation.For the analysis of perceptual structures in verbal behaviour the pres-ent authors have used a modification of the "individual multidimen-sional scaling" methods uggested by B. BLOXOM (1968), C. Hoa_~N(1969) and J. D. CAaROL and J. j. CrlANG (1970).
This approach to theanalysis of experimental data permits us to describe the individual dif-ferences between Ss in stimuli perception.
In our previous research wehave applied some methods of multidimensional scaling for studyingthe subjective probability estimates of Russian words.
In the presentCOMPUTATIONAL METHODS IN THE ANALYSIS OF VERBAL BEHAVIOUR 173paper for purposes of illustration we perform an analysis of similarityjudgements among block letters of the Russian alphabet according tothe above mentioned model.Measures of perceived similarity among stimuli may be obtainedby several experimental procedures.
Tiffs study uses the data of theexperiment, in which the stimuli - 32 block letters of Russian alphabet -were presented pair-wise (E. N. GrR~ANOV, P. F. ANDRUKOV'tCH, A.P.
VASlrEWCH, 1972; the same procedure was used by T. K/2NNAVAS,1966).
Ss have been asked to judge each pair of letters as "alike " or"not alike ".
Each comparison was made by at least 50 Ss, the "pointof view" of each S being represented by similarity matrix with 0 for"al ike" and 1 for "not alike" as entries.
!JlI11I ooo"ibo PoEo!qT o -oaHoII ,B3?
0 oO Oc 8oof\[oIOoi|hKoHo|Hoxo YAo oMoIf!IFig.
1.174 R. M. FRUMKINA-  P. F. ANDRUKOVICH-  A. YU.
TEREKHINAAfter these data had been processed by the method of principalcomponents we have obtained the plotting of stimuli on the planescorresponding to various pairs of latent vectors.
We have excludedfrom further analysis the first latent vector because it has more or lessconstant elements and may be regarded as allowing for the mean valueof distance between all the elements of pairs (J. C. GowrR, 1966).The projection of letters obtained is presented in Fig.
1 and 2.BI IBoPob I% ooI t  -oItEK~o oIHoToy  A I?
Xo ooAo Momoo3ooOIVi : I lH llio 11I?1I ooHog I~ooFig.
2.An analysis of these configurations resulted in discovering the threemain factors underlying the perceptual behaviour of the Ss:COMPUTATIONAL METHODS IN THE ANALYSIS OF VERBAL BEHAVIOUR 175\["' 32 P.ussi~n b2ock letter.~ '" .
'\]/ 3d factor ~ / 2dfactor ~, , (,P,,,,B),,, (0, C) (llI H) , ,, (M,X) \]A more detailed analysis can be made from the data based uponthe projections on successive coordinate axes allowing for progressivelyless important differences among letters.Now we turn to individual scaling method which, as we havestated earlier, permits us to uncover the individual perceptual structures.According to this approach individuals are assumed ifferentially toweight he several dimensions of the "common psychological space"Let us take an assumption about the existence of a " true" pointconfiguration i  k-dimensional Euclidean space, where a set of k di-mensions or "factors" are common to all individuals, but the weightsthey assign to these factors are different.
Then, for any individual the" weighted" Euclidean distance if given by/?i = l=1where xil, x jz-  values of the j-th and i-th stimulus on the l-th dimen-sion, Whl - the weight which represents he salience of the l-th dimen-sion for the h-th individual.
If for a given S the l-th dimension haveno importance at all, w~ will be equal to zero.Let us denote by Dh the similarity matrix for h-th individual.
Nowour goal will be to find out such point configuration and such set ofweights to minimize some functionf (Dh, dh) used as a criterion of good-ness of fit.
One of the present authors has suggested the followingcriterion:Sh Di s '' (D,,-d,;) ~ ?
D,;, for d,, < D,;.This criterion applied, the distortion of the small distances makesthem smaller, and the distortion of the greater ones makes them great-er, thus permitting better discrimination between groups of objects.176 R. M. FRUMKINA-  P. !
~.
ANDRUKOVICH-  A. YU.
TEREKHINA0o6oooFig.
3.COMPUTATIONAL METHODS IN THE ANALYSIS OF VERBAL BEHAVIOUR 177To evaluate the amount of discrepancies for all the judges, we cantake the average of Sh thus defining the following divergency criterion:mS---- --1~S hm h=lThe gradient method has been used for obtaining the numerical val-ues of x~ and wh~ which minimize the value of S. Limiting ourselvesto the two-dimensional representation of the Ss' perceptual spaceswe may plot our data on the plane, taking values of xi~ as coordinatesof the stimuli and wja as those of the Ss.
Fig.
3 and 4 represent twointerrelated point configurations.i!/12./...?
OQ?
go ?
?
O o";7 4P" ?
??
47Fig.
4.01S.I 0I178 R. M. FRUMKINA-  P. F. ANDRUKOVICH-  A. YU.
TEREKHINAIt is evideDt, from Fig.
3, that there are groupings of letters accord-ing to their subjective intersimilarity, thus providing us with twopsycholinguistically interpretable dimensions.
The analysis reveals thatdimension 1 corresponds to the opposition "letters with straight ele-ments - letters without straight elements ".
The dimension 2correspondsto the opposition "letters with acute-angular elements - letters withoutacute-angular elements"Method of individual scaling also provides us with a mapping ofSs into two-dimensional subject space.
Coordinates of the point fora given S in this space correspond to the weights of the various dimen-sions in the stimulus pace.
Fig.
4 gives a visual impression of the one--two plane of the subjects pace.
We see that the Ss can be first of allcontrasted with respect o magnitude of the weights assigned by themto the 1-st and 2-nd dimensions.
The analysis of individual similaritymatrixes revealed that the Ss who tended to choose answers " alike ",weighted equally low both the 1-st and the 2-nd dimensions, whilethe Ss with tendency to choose answers "not  alike" weighted heavilyboth dimensions.
For instance, subject N. 5, who attached very lowweight to both dimensions, gave 117 answers "al ike" and 36 answers" not alike ".
A good contrast o the subject N. 5 is provided by thesubjects N. 10 and N. 15, who answered "alike " only 3 times from153 comparison judgements.However, the most important outcome of our analysis is the factthat the same dimensions being present they have different relativeimportance for different Ss.
One group of Ss attaches maximal weightsto the 1-st dimension (in Fig.
4 the corresponding points are underthe diagonal), while another group attaches maximal weights to the2-nd dimension.
S N. 47 and S N. 41 provide a good contrast in thisrespect.
S N. 47 weights dimension I considerably more than dimen-sion II while S N. 41 shows the opposite tendency.
Fig.
5 and 6 contrastthe " perceptual spaces " for these two subjects (coordinate axes aretransformed by multiplication to the corresponding weights).Still, for the greater part of the Ss there seems to be almost no dif-ference in the weights for the dimensions (the corresponding pointsare plotted in Fig.
4 along the diagonal).
The place of the study of in-dividual perceptual structures underlying similarity judgements ofI~ussian letters is, of course, restricted to the value of iUustrative xam-ple.
However, trivial could seem the resulting letter classification, evenin this very simple case the method of individual scaling has allowedCOMPUTATIONAL METHODS IN THE ANALYSIS OF VERBAL BEHAVIOUR 179HYAA HMRHHPE BBOCFig.
5 (S 41)I.ZIArlH.TYAMEBPBFig.
6.
(S 47)O.CI180 R. M. FRUMKINA- P. F. ANDRUKOVICH- A. YU.
TEREKttINAus to obtain highly non-trivial results concerning the communalityand differences of Ss' perceptual subspaces.We would like to stress that in the overall context of verbal behav-iour research the possibilities given to a linguist by the model describedcould not be overestimated.
Perhaps, one of the strongest points ofthis method being applied to the analysis of verbal behaviour phenom-ena is its potential generalization to discovering socially determinedcognitive superstructures underlying the individual behaviour.To give no more than one example the individual scaling methodmakes it possible to analyze confusions data for children at differentstages of native language acquisition, thus providing some experimentaldata which, we hope, could throw some light on the problem of theinternalized and unconscious peaker-heater's knowledge of his lan-guage (N. CHOMS~rY, 1965), which serves as a base for distinction be-tween "competence" and "performance"ILEFER.ENCESB.
BLOXOM, Individual differences in multi-dimensional scaling, Educational TestingService, Princeton (N.J.), KesearchBulletin 68--45, (1968).J.
D. Oau~o=, J.J. CuaNG, ~Analysis ofindividual differences in multidimensionalscaling via an n-way generalization of, Eckart-Young ~decomposition, i  ?
Psy-chometrika,, XXXV (1970) 3.N.
CHOMSZY, Aspects of the theory ofsyntax, Cambridge (Mass.
), 1965.E.
N. G~axa~,.Nov, P. F. ANDRUKOVmrI,A.
VASmSVlCH, On graphical resem-blance of Russian block letters, in Sinkh-ronicheski-tipologicheskie i storikotipolo-gicheskie issledovania, Institute of Lin-guistics, the Academy of the USSIL,1972.J.
C. GOW~R, Some distance properties oflatent root and vector methods used inmultivariate analysis, in ~ Biometrika J,LILI (196@ p. 3.C.
Ho~,  Multidimensional scaling: com-bining observation when individuals havedifferent perceptual structures, in , Psy-chometrika ,, XXXIV (1969) 2.T.
K01~N^VAS, Visual perception of capitalletters, in ,Scand.
J. Psychol.~, VII(1966).W.
S.
TORGr.RSOt?, Multidimensional Scal-ing, Theory and Method, in ~ Psycho-metrika ~, XVII (1952) 4.
