JIM M2KTHIASCOOPERATIVE FILE IMPROVEMENT AND USEOF A COMPUTEI~-BASED CHINESE/ENGLISH DICTIONARY -The CETA (Chinese-English Translation Assistance) Group is an in-dependent organization formed to coordinate development of Chineseto English translation aids and data analysis techniques.
It began as anad hoc body of individuals from State, Commerce, Labor, Office ofEducation, Defense, Intelligence, Voice of America, Foreign ServiceInstitute, Defense Language Institute, National Science Foundation andLibrary of Congress.
Extension of interest into the scholarly commu-nity has broadened academic dimensions to include 43 US and inter-national universities.
CETA is developing a computer-based Chinese-English dictionary of current standard terms.
It is also exploring tan-gential topics such as computer processing of Chinese research data,machine translation, and use of the CETA Dictionary file in an on-linecomputer aid system.Academic research and development of computer operations in, United States' universities has led to capability of computer generationof Chinese characters.
Using this capability, CETA printed a 90,000 termdictionary file of Chinese-English entries and has developed a coopera-tive international process for refining and enriching the file.
This pro-cess is called the C~TA File Improvement System.
It is founded on gov-ernment/academic/private cooperation, designed to edit existing ma-terial and add new material.
The improvement system is based on col-lective improvement of the file through a wide sharing of linguistictasks and the use of computers to store the data and process changes.Thus far, thirty-seven government and forty-three academic linguistsand language specialists have committed themselves to review animprovement of the file in return for which they receive the printedcopy of the dictionary plus change pages as they are generated.
Over51,000 suggested improvements have been submitted and evaluatedand are awaiting update.
The File Improvement System proceeds bycycles in which progressively more rigid standards of review are applied.276 JIM MATmASThe ftle will be reprinted in three to five year cycles with change pagesissued during interim periods so that participants can share maximumbenefits at all times.When CETA examined the problem of producing a dictionary, itwas concluded that significant results could be achieved only by sharingthe many tasks involved.
It was a forbidding problem, however, thepotential for improving dictionaries without waiting 20 years for neweditions was a meaningful incentive.
The CETA Group issued a hardcopy of the 90,000 term Chinese-English listing called The CETA Com-puter-Based Chinese-English Dictionary.
It was produced as a "l iv-ing" file that could be changed constantly.
It was printed by comput-er - the principal advantages of which were ability to print Chinesecharacters without typesetting and economy of effort in manipulatingthe data.
The computer could sort in different sequences, make cor-rections or additions at will, extract particular subsets, and producea hard copy image of file materials.
In a word, it was possible to takethe present computer-produced manuscript and give parts of it to vol-unteers to review and correct or add information.
Also it was possibleto develop methods for the reviewer to easily prepare changes and forCETA to evaluate and then update the manuscript fde.The first cycle of file review for gross error and duplication hasbeen completed.
The reviewers were given a set of instructions to guidethem in review of the dictionary material and the preparation of changesor additions.
The steps required to process improvements o the CETADictionary are, briefly stated, receipt of suggestions for change or ad-dition, preparation for keypunch, computer generation of a prooflistshowing original as well as changed entries, manual review of the proof-list, computer selection of approved changes, and update of the com-puter dictionary file.
The application of these steps assures that allchanges to the master file will be examined at least once and question-able changes can be held for later review to avoid delaying update actions.As mechanism, the improvement system is quite smooth and underideal conditions it is possible to change the computer file in a matterof minutes.
Under the less than ideal conditions that usually prevail,it is still possible to update and provide current information within afew months rather than the usual 10 year dictionary building and 20year reissue cycles.Currently CETA has received and prepared for update a total of51,000 changes to the 90,000 term file.
Since there are more additionsthan deletions, the new file will be larger by a few percent.
More im-0 Z ~ ~ Z ~?
0 ~'~ 0o ~o o ~ ~ ~ ~ < o ~ ~o ~ = ~ :z: ~ ~ :~ z ~ o~ z ~ ~ ~ < ~0 o ~ ? "
, "?.o ~ "at Z (0 .f'-, r~ r.~ ,-1 f~ fzl 0 0 Z Z ~ Z:~ ~ o z .3 7~ z z ,'," :~ ~ ,o o < ~ o < .?
< z o o ~.
~ ~ ~ - ,O. a.
(.-, ~, F~ \[--, \[--, F-, F-, ~ ~ b F. b, F, \[--, F., \[-.
b-, ~,0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 rO 0 0 0 rO 0 0 rO 0 0 0m00,-.1 0Z~:~0 .
~0 \["  ~ 0o ~ ~ ~ ~m ~ 0o0 Z0oo o ~ o o ~ ~ z z oo o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o. F lg .
1.
Computer Printed Chinese Characters.278 JIM MATHIASportant, the greatest error will have been removed and the fde will beprepared for the next cycle which will emphasize the further enrichmentof the lexical content, addition of grammatic information, incorporationof restrictive and stylistic labels, and identification ofagglutinated phras-es.
The second printing of the dictionary manuscript will include PinYin romanization with tone and telecode numbers as well as the cus-tomary English gloss and source information.
The character vector filehas been significantly updated so that it now contains capabilities ofdrawing approximately 10,500 characters.
It will be continually updat-ed through the dictionary review cycles.
See Figure 1 ComputerPrinted Chinese Characters.The fde will also be available as the core of an on-line computeraid.
Prototype computer aid functions have been developed whichillustrate the ways in which a computer file can be used in an interactivemode to help a translator.
They use input by telecode and romanizationand graphic input is simulated.
A cathode ray tube is used to displayChinese characters, romanizations (Pin Yin, Wade-Giles, Yale), theradical number plus residual stroke cotmt, English meaning for thestring and meaning for segments of the strings.
Also developed is anautomatic segmenting function which is the operation of breaking astring of characters into single characters and into segments of contin-uous characters (for synthesis of meaning form component parts).See Figure 2 Graphic Display.C HARA CTER SEQUE NCE SEGME NT E NG LISH(1) (2) (3) (4) IDENTIFIER MEANINGSTC 2693 3111 1714 2348 " 1 -4  D iese l  Eng ine  ,2-4  - -  !4 4 To Ra ise  (W) 'I 'Yin... Engine1-3 IP 1CHAI 2YOU 3YIN 2QING 2-3 -W CH'A I  YU Y IN ?
CH ' ING 3 Lead ,  Draw,  At t rac t ,Y CHAI YOU YIN CHING i-2 Diesel Oil, Fuel in 'R 75 .5  85 .5  57 .1  64 .13  Genera l  'T 9 8 4 17 Oi l ,  Grease  ' lF i re  Wood IFig.
2.
Graphic display.COOPERATIVE FILE IMPROVEMENT 279CETA hopes to test this system further using a refined data basefor evaluation of its potential for shared access by a wide governmentand academic ommunity.CETA started with a poor dictionary but it was machineable.
Thereare a lot of good dictionaries that are not machine readable and, there-fore, difficult to change or consolidate.
CETa is putting these thingstogether by use of a wholly unique method; the voluntary cooperationof interested government and academic scholars and language specialists.The reward to participants i : 1) awareness of contribution to a worth-while effort, 2) an up-to-date hard copy of the CETA computer filecontaining all the latest contributions by all participants and 3) use ofthe CETA Secretariat Office to search out and exchange information ofcommon concern.
The only cost is willingness to share in the workof CETA.
