BENTE MAEGAARD - EBBE SPANG-HANSSENSEGMENTATION OF FRENCH SENTENCES1.
This paper describes a programme which, by means of a verylimited number of criteria, analyses French sentences into principalclauses and subordinate clauses.
We prefer, however, to speak of seg-mentation rather than of analysis, because the analysis in question isvery incomplete; there is, so to speak, no analysis at all; what we aredoing is simply to try to find the extent o which the computer, usingonly a few kinds of landmarks in the text, is able to divide the sen-tence into certain segments, viz.
the clauses.
We raise the question whe-ther French sentences can be segmented correctly by the computer re-cognizing in the input-text as linguistic signs having a special value,only words of the following three types:1) finite verb-forms,2) conjunctions and relative pronouns,3) punctuation marks.All other words are considered as belonging to a single class, theunmarked words.
Iu practice we shall make some subdivisions withinthe three main groups so that we finally get eight classes of signs inthe input-text between which the computer should be able to distin-guish:1) words introducing subordinate clauses (subordinating con-junctions, relative pronouns);2) coordinating conjunctions (et, mais, ou);3) comma;4) unmarked words, i.e.
every word not belonging to any of theother classes;5) finite verb without clitic subject pronoun + clitic pronounsand particles;6) full stop, semicolon, colon, exclamation-mark, question-mark.7) "car ";8) finite verb with a clitic subject pronoun + ditic pronounsand particles.278 BENTE MAEGAARD- EBBE SPANG-HANSSENAs will be seen, the computer will not, as a rule, try to identifythe subject of the clause.
Preliminary experience has shown us, however,that we could diminish considerably the number of errors by conserv-ing the information given by the existence, or non-existence, of aclitic subject pronoun before the finite verb.
We find that informationof this kind is of the same type as the other "landmarks ", i.e.
word-forms that one can identify fairly easily without going very far in theanalysis of the context.2.
Survey of the different stages of the project.The first part of the programme converts the input-text into astring of symbols (the numbers of the eight classes just defined).
Example:c'est rheure dangereuse o~ le froid, si on n'est pas couvert, vous rend malade.844 4 14431 8 4 43  5 4 6The conversion programme, which should be the first to operateon the text, is nevertheless the last to be elaborated and, at present, itis still not operative in its entirety.
At the first stage of our work, wemade the conversion manually, wanting to see the efficiency of ourparser before undertaking the rather tiresome work of writing theconversion-programme.
Therefore, the segmentations presented in thispaper are all segmentations of manually written strings of numberswhich correspond to some French sentences; but, indeed, when writingthese input-strings, we were careful to do only what our conversionprogramme should be able to make the computer do.Although the conversion programme does not pretend to any de-gree of originality, it might be useful to give some idea of the amountof analysis contained in it; this point might be essential to the discus-sion of the interest of the entire project.
The conversion programmeconsists mainly of the following subsections:a) segmentation of the input-text into sentences and words.This programme specially examines the puntuation marks (in order,for instance, to find out whether a point is a full stop or somethingelse), the hyphens, and the apostrophes; both hyphens and apostrophesmay, or may not, separate words.b) Conversion of the punctuation marks into one of the twosymbols, 3 or 6.SEGMENTATION OF FRENCH SENTENCES 279c) Conversion of highly-frequent grammatical words (82 differ-ent words are listed) into the symbols 2 or 7 or into the symbols thatrepresent two auxiliary classes.
Apart from the eight classes taken overby the parser, we have set up, for the purpose of the conversion only,two auxiliary classes: determiners (for the purpose of disambiguatinghomographs that may be either nouns or finite verb-forms) and pre-positions (on account of the possibility that they form part of a rela-tive-phrase introducing a subordinate clause).d) Conversion of finite verbs into one of the two symbols, 5 or8.
This routine is undoubtedly the most important part of the conver-sion programme.
It examines every word from right to left in orderte see whether the ending of the word matches with an entry in thelist of verb-flexives.
If the answer is in the affirmative, the routine willtry to match the remainder of the token with an entry in the list ofstems.
This list comprises about 3200 stems which correspond to theverbs selected as those belonging to ordinary French in J. CAVUT, Dic-tionnaire des verbes Fran?ais, Larousse 1970.e) Conversion into the symbol 1 of the words introducing sub-ordinate clauses.f) Conversion into the symbol 4 of every word for which theprevious tests have failed.The second part of the programme, the segmentation programmeproper, analyses the string of numbers and gives as an output a stringsegmented in the following way (we take as an example the sentencequoted above):input: 8444144318443546output: 8444/1443/18443 /546The oblique strokes indicate the boundaries of the clauses.
We haveintroduced, however, the convention that a single stroke is not a bound-ary if followed at the same level by a space and a string which is notpreceded by a stroke.
In our example, this is the case at the secondlevel where, as a matter of fact, there is only one clause:c'est l'heure dangereuse/o~ le froid/ vous rend m.si on n'est pas couvert\]280 BENTE MAEGAARD- EBBE SPANG-HANSSENThe output does not only give information about the boundariesof the clauses; it also indicates the levels of the clauses and the waysin which they are embedded in one another.
In our example it is easyto see that the clause at the lowest level is embedded in the clause atthe second level which, in turn, is subordinated to the clause at the toplevel.It is evident hat it is only a simple matter of programming to con-vert the output-string consisting of numbers into an image of the seg-mented sentence.
This conversion, too, will be included in the finalsystem.3.
Examples.INPUT STRING NR 60443443445418323434454246OUTPUT4434434454/ /23434454246183/INPUT STRING NR 614454442444441544454444446OUTPUT445444/244444/ 54444444615444/INPUT STRING NR45444434444444325446OUTPUT454444344444443/2544662INPUT STRING443844444244446OUTPUT443844444244446NR 63INPUT STRING NR 64443443844444144544441844446OUTPUT443443844444/144544444/1844446INPUT STRING443844446OUTPUT443844446NR 68Son dos, ses bras, son cou lui fontreal quand il les remue, et, surtout,sa t~te est lourde et douloureuse.Son sang bat derriere son front et ladure lumi~re du jour qui traverse seslunettes noires lui pique les yeux deses centaines d'aiguilles.Jean voudrait pouvoir se reposervraiment, dormir route une nuit sansse r~veiller, mais cela n'est pas pos-sible.Chaque soir, il retrouve l'air encoreplus chaud et lourd de la moustiquaire.Dix lois, vingt fois, il se retourne surson lit de toile pendant que les mousti-ques cherchent sans fin le trou paroff ils pourront entrer pour le piquer.Chaque jour, il mange un peu plusreal;SEGMENTATION OF FRENCH SENTENCES 28'1INPUT STRING NR 69484442184444444418344445434444344443846OUTPUT48444/2/ 44445434444344443/8461844444444/ /183/BienMt il n'a plus de pain et commeil ne sait pas assez bien chasser pourtuer les animaux qu'il rencontre,presque tous ses repas sont maigres:un peu de riz, quelques pommes determ, c'est tout.4.
The interest of the project.If the programme turns out to be reasonably successful - that is tosay if the automatic onversion of the text into symbols will not in-crease too much the number of errors-one might think of two possibleapplications:The programme might be useful for obtaining more interestingconcordances.
The computer has often been thought of as a means forthe linguist of obtaining better documentation than that of the old-fashioned card-index made manually by the linguist himself; but if thecomputer is to replace the old card-index, the linguist must have theopportunity not only to give to the machine a list of words in whichhe is interested, but also to define for the machine the kinds of contextin which the key-words hould occur.
A programme that recognizesthe boundaries of the clauses should offer a good many possibilities fordefining the contexts that the linguist is looking for.Another possible application of the segmentation programme mightbe as a first stage of a complete analysis.
It might be profitable to startanalysis with a tentative segmentation of the sentences into clauses.For us, however, the linguistic interest proper of the project ismore important than the rather hypothetical pplications, even though itseems quite clear that our grammar does not give a better understand-ing of the structure of the French sentence than that which could befound in a traditional grammar.
Our grammar does not give any in-sight into the deep structure of the sentence, but it gives a descriptionof the profile of the surface structure.
One might speak of it as an in-vestigation of some surface-constraints in French.
It is not without in-terest o examine the extent o which it is true that French sentencesare cast in a certain mould so that only a few marks are sufficient fora correct segmentation.
Or to put it more simply: the segmentationprogramme can be seen as a new approach to the study of word-or-der in French.282 BENTE MAEGAARD- EBBE SPANG-HANSSEN5.
The linguistic facts.In this section we will discuss the linguistic facts that make possiblea segmentation solely on the basis of the finite verb-forms, the conjunc-tions, and the punctuation marks.We have found it convenient to set up the rule that every finiteverb constitutes a clause, that is to say there can be only one finiteverb in a clause.
This view is linguistically justifiable, for instance withinthe framework of a dependency grammar.
Consequently, we shall saythat there are two clauses in each of the following sentences:La voiture ddmarre et part en vitesseLa voiture ddmarre, part en vitesse.In general, it is fairly easy to identify the beginning of a subordinateclause.
It is a striking peculiarity of the French language that every(or nearly every) subordinate clause is introduced by some kind of in-troductory word, a conjunction or the like.
Or to put it otherwise:the first word in a subordinate clause is always a word that belongs toa very limited class and one which it is rather easy to recognize (subor-dinating conjunctions, relative pronouns).
Some of these words canplay other roles as well (for instance si, combien), but the ambiguitiesare relatively few or unimportant.It is much more difficult to find out where the subordinate clausesend.
It is perhaps one of the merits of our model that it puts that ques-tion - until now, as far as we know, grammarians have almost exlu-sively treated the beginning of the subordinate clauses.
There is noproblem, of course, if the end of the subordinate clause coincides withthe end of the sentence; the real problem arises with the embeddedclauses.Normally, the information contained in our strings of numbers issufficient for the identification of the end of the embedded clauses onaccount, above all, of the fact that the subordinate clauses are mostoften embedded before the verb of the dominating clause (i.e.
a clausethat contains a subordinate clause - a subordinate as well as a principalclause may be a dominating clause):le vin qu'il boit est tr~s fortle vin qu'il bolt le soir est tr~s fort.SEGMENTATION OF FRENCH SENTENCES 283If the clause is embedded before the finite verb of the dominatingclause, and if there is no comma or coordinating conjunction betweenthe verb of the subordinate clause and the verb of the dominating clause,the end of the embedded clause is to be found just before the verb ofthe dominating clause (as in the two examples just quoted).
In a stringsuch as4414544456where "1 " indicates the beginning of an embedded clause, one cansafely put the final boundary of this clause just before the second " 5 "(finite verb).
This observation, which does not seem to be a matterof course, can be stated in the following way in terms of traditionalgrammar: if you insert a clause just after the subject, you cannot in-sert anything more before the verb-phrase.The unmarked words (denoted here by the number 4) standing be-tween two finite verbs are connected with the preceding verb.
Thisis true also of a string of"  4 "s surrounded by commas:le vin qu'il boit le soir, quelques minutes avant de se coucher, est tr~sfort.There is only one exception to these rules concerning the finalboundary of clauses embedded before the verb of the dominating clause.If the clause is inserted after an adverbial phrase at the head of the domi-nating clause, the subject of the dominating clause will be placed afterthe embedded clause just before the verb:le jour oh le livre parut Jacques ?tait absent de Paris.Our grammar does not solve this problem if the embedded clause isnot terminated by a comma, or if the subject of the dominating clauseis not a clitic pronoun.
But normally there is a comma fter an embed-ded clause which is part of an adverbial phrase at the head of the sen-tence:Dans une soci3t3 qui fonctionne comme un organisme robuste, l'3limi-nation se fait toute seule.The problems are more complicated when between the two finiteverbs there are one or several coordinating conjunctions or a number284 BENTE MAEGAARD- EBBE SPANG.-.HANSSENof commas different from two.
Our grammar analyses correctly mostof these combinations such as, for instance, the following case:son dos, ses bras, son cou lui font mal quand il les remue, et, surtout,sa t?te est Iourde et douloureuse.In this example, the stroke that marks the end of the embeddedclause will be placed just before et.The weakest point in the model is the treatment of clauses embed-ded after the verb of the dominating clause; in this case, we have nodefinite means of identifying the end of the subordinate clause.
Example:il avait donn3 ~ tous ceux qui s'3taient pr3sent3s des cadeaux magni-fiques.This case is, fortunately, rather infrequent; it is much more commonto find the subordinate clause at the end of the dominating clause, atthe head of the dominating clause, or before the verb of the dominat-ing clause.
In the texts analysed until now by the computer, more than90 % of the sentences have been correctly segmented.6.
The grammar.Our grammar is intended to analyse grammatical French sentences.Ideally, it should be able to analyse correctly every grammatical Frenchsentence.
On the other hand, it is not designed for discarding ungram-matical sentences.The grammar has the form of two state diagrams, one of the mainclauses, and another of the subordinate clauses.
In many states, in bothof the diagrams, the parsing procedure can leave the level where itis and enter the diagram of the subordinate clauses at the next, lower,level.
In principle, there is no limit to the number of times the proce-dure can make new entries, at still lower levels, into the diagram of thesubordinate clauses.
Consequently, the grammar can be considered asan extended finite state grammar, rather similar to the Transition net-work grammar described by Wood (in <~ Communications of ACM >>,XIII (1970) no.
10.It is the loops provided with the number 1 (the symbol for the classof words introducing subordinate clauses) that have this particulareffect of making a new entry into the diagram of the subordinate clauses.SEGMENTATION OF FRENCH SENTENCES 285l\MAIN CLAUSE.Thus, a loop carrying the number I does not have exactly the ordinarymeaning of a loop, viz.
that the machine shall stay in the state whereit is.
The machine will pursue the analysis at a lower level, but when ithas found the end of tile subordinate clause, it will come up again intothe state it left, and in this way, from the view-point of the upper level,the loop can be said to keep its ordinary meaning.Apart from the numbers symbolizing the different word-classes,the arrows of the diagram may carry some other symbols.
Ld and Lgsignify that the machine shall print, at this moment, a stroke marking286 BENTE MAEGAARD- EBBE SPANC~HANSSENthe boundary between two clauses.
Ld means that the stroke shall beprinted on the right side of the symbol which has just been read, where-as Lg will put the stroke on the left side.
G means that the machine,when arrived at the new state, shall read the symbol to the left of thesymbol just read, i.e.
the machine shall read from right to left.The backward reading, from right to left, plays a rather importantrole in this grammar, because, among the 8 symbols, some are moreinformative than others, in particular class I (words introducing subor-dinate clauses) and the classes 5 and 8 (finite verbs): each of these threeSEGMENTATION OF FRENCH SENTENCES 287numbers indicates by itself the existence of a new clause, whereas thecommas and the coordinating conjunctions have only a secondaryimportance.
For this reason, the machine will most often, during afirst reading from left to right, remain in the same state after havingread a comma or a conjunction.
O11 the contrary, when the machinehas read a new finite verb (the state q6 in the diagram of the mainclauses, the state q105 in the diagram of the subordinate clauses), itwill know that it must look for a place to put a boundary somewhereto the left of the verb it has met; at that moment he commas and thecoordinating conjunctions become interesting as the words that aremost likely to indicate the boundary.The states that mark the end of a subordinate clause are indicatedby rectangles; these states control the level shifts.The computer programme had to solve the rather puzzling pro-blem of combining the backward reading with the shifting of levels.From a linguistic point of view, the computer programme adds tothe grammar only a device for the treatment of the "holes " whichappear in the string when a part of the string has been put at a lowerlevel.
In the programme, such a hole is considered as being framed bytwo commas, even if the subordinate clause was not framed by com-mas; this means that, at the level of the dominating clause, the embeddedclause has the same status as a string of unmarked words framed bytwo commas.
** We suppose that the programme in its entirety will be operative in the course of"autumn 1973.
It is our intention then to analyse a certain number of French texts - atpresent we have at our disposal 12 novels on paper tape which we have borrowed from, Le Centre pour un Trtsor de la Langue Fran9aise~ (Nancy) and which we have trans-coded.
