JohN HEWSONRECONSTRUCTING PREHISTORIC LANGUAGES ON THECOMPUTER: THE TRIUMPH OF THE ELECTRONICNEOGKAMMARIAN1.
THE PROJECTThe prime principle lying behind all comparative linguistics is theregularity of sound change.
Without this principle, comparative lin-guistics would be mere empty speculation: any ad hoc rule could becreated on the spur of the moment o justify the most fanciful ety-mology.
But with the principle of the regularity of sound change com-parative linguistics becomes a rigorous science: 1 it is possible to pro-pose a hypothesis, and then demonstrate clearly from the data whetherthe hypothesis works or not.
In classic scientific method if the hypothesisdoes not work, it is to be abandoned; if it does work it must be shownto apply to all of the data in a completely coherent fashion.
All appar-ent anomalies must therefore be either explained as the effects of someother cause: as a result of analogy, or borrowing or dialectal interfer-ence.The so-called neogrammarians who developed and elaborated thisprinciple of the regularity of sound change a hundred years ago wereguilty, like most revolutionaries, of pushing their doctrine to an extremeposition.
Today we are aware that sound change is a very complexphenomenon and not at all the somewhat simplistic regular shiftingfrom proto language to daughter language that they imagined.
Everylanguage is, for a start, a collection of different dialects, and the samemust be considered true of those proto languages we try to describein our reconstructions.
We must, as well, rid ourselves of the sim-plistic notion of a proto language being a centre from which, at someselect and special .moment of history, all the daughter languages began1 It is possible for a science to be rigorous without being exact; comparative lin-guistics is not an exact science.
An exact science deals with mechanical laws, a rigorousscience deals with observed regularities.J264 JOHN HEWSONto diverge like the spokes of a wheel.
Our knowledge of phyla andfamilies shows us that the splitting off is much more haphazard, andthat there can be contact and interference long after the original dia-lectal split.Nevertheless, the principle of the regularity of sound change re-mains of fundamental importance, and will remain of fundamentalimportance in the discipline of comparative linguistics.
And it followsthat if sound change is regular then it should be possible to make useof machine methods in the reconstruction of proto languages.
It waswith such a plan in view that we set to work in the summer of 1971to devise computer strategies that would enable us, from an inputof four daughter languages, to reconstruct the lexicon of a proto lan-guage and produce a proto language dictionary on the computer fromthe raw input of the daughter languages.We chose four fairly closely related Amerindian languages to workwith: Fox, Cree, Menomini and Ojibwa, from which we hoped toreconstruct a lexicon of Proto Algonkian.
The correspondences of thesefour languages had been originally worked out some fifty years agoby LEONARD BLOOMFIELD in an article in the first volume of Language,now famous for its solitary footnote on the universality of the princi-ple of sound change.
Bloomfield later refined this work in his masterlysketch entitled Algonquian in the volume Linguistic Structures of NativeAmerica edited by HOIJER.
In short, the sound system of Proto Algon-kian had been long before thoroughly worked out, so that we werein a position to enter all the reflexes and correspondences into the com-puter programming as necessity might arise.
But, and this was the fac-tor of interest, although the sound system had been worked out forthe proto language, no one had ever applied Bloomfield's correspon-dences and reflexes to the totality of the data of the four daughterlanguages from which he worked, so that only a few hundred wordsof Proto Algonkian had ever been reconstructed, in spite of the lapseof over half a century.
Reconstruction is, of course, enormously timeconsuming, and a dictionary of a proto language normally takes manyyears to produce.Our aim, therefore, was: to devise a ~programme that would usethe correspondences and reflexes of the daughter languages to findcognates in an input of raw data in these languages and to reconstructproto forms for these cognates.
The proto forms and the cognates fromwhich they had been generated would then be assembled on the com-puter in the form of a proto language lexicon or dictionary.RECONSTRUCTING PREHISTORIC LANGUAGES ON THE COMPUTER 2652.
THE APPROACHThe phonology of reconstructed Proto Algonkian has three mainaspects: the consonants of which there are 12, the consonant clustersof which there are 32, and the vowels of which there are 8.
Since thecorrespondences of the consonants and the consonant clusters in AI-gonkian (as in other language families) show greater egularity andsimplicity than the vowel correspondences, the decision was madefrom the beginning to concentrate he search for cognates on the cor-respondences of consonants and consonant clusters alone, and to ignorethe vowels.
This is necessary for two reasons: a) to spread the net wider,and b) to simplify programming and reduce machine time.The team that embarked upon this project was composed of lin-guists and computer personnel.
The linguists envisaged a programmethat would start with a word in one language and by generating thepossibilities inherent in the correspondences s arch for a cognate in thesame grammatical nd semantic area in a second language.
It is quiteeasy for such generated possibilities to run to computations of 30 or40 forms, so that one word in Fox, for example, could generate asearch for 30 or more possibilities in Cree, perhaps find one, perhapsfind more than one, or perhaps draw a blank.
The search would thencontinue o11 to Menomini, taking into account he possibly considera-ble information already accumulated from Cree in order to computethe possibilities to be sought for in Menomini, where again one mightfind a possible cognate, more than one, or zero.
To proceed on toOjibwa would then require all the previous information to be digestedbefore predicting and searching for the possibilities in Ojibwa.One of the worst aspects of this strategy (apart from its complexity)is the impossibility of preventing the machine from deciding (on theconsonant correspondences, semantic and grammatical categories alone)that a word is cognate, when the linguist can tell at a glance (from theEnglish gloss, or from the vowel correspondences) that it is not.
Themachine then proceeds to assimilate this false information and compoundsthe error by using it in its further predictions.For example, for Fox poohkdamwa " he cuts it open ", the Creeconsonant possibilities are onlyphksmp sksm266 JOHN m~WSONbut such a programme would find both Cree paaskisam "he shootsit" and pooskosam " he cuts it open ".
On the basis of this data theprogramme would then generate the following possibilities for Meno-mini:phk  smp hk hs mp hk 2s mp ~k s mp ~k hs mp ~k 2s mNo cognates would be found in Menomini, however, and theprogramme would proceed to generate the following set of possibil-ities for Ojibwa:p kk Inp kk ssVV np kk n~ np ~k ~ np~k~np ~k n~e nFor this set the following would be declared cognate: Ojibwapa~ko~aan " he cuts it down ", pakkwedaan "he slices off a part ",neither of which is truly cognate with either the Fox or Cree items.The end result of such a programme, therefore, would be almost nil.When the problems with this approach became obvious, a totallydifferent strategy was proposed by the computer personnel.
In thisstrategy the first procedure is to extract he consonant framework ofevery input word in the raw data file (R/F) and to create a new file(N/F) listing these consonant frameworks.
A sample of R/F is givenin APPENDIX A, and a sample of N/F is given in APPENDIX B.Secondly every possible proto form is generated from the knownreflexes for the consonant framework of each word.
This is done verysimply, in a single pass, and the results tored in file W/F.
On our firstrun, with 3,403 items in R/F and N/F, we generated 74,049 protoform potentialities (proto-projections) showing an average of over 21possible proto-projections for every item of raw input.Thirdly a massive alphabetical sort is carried out to collate all theproto-projections in file W/F in alphabetical order within identicalRECONSTRUCTING PREHISTORIC LANGUAGES ON THE COMPUTER 267grammatical nd semantic sets.
The result of this sort is that all identi-cal proto-projections in the same semantic and grammatical categoriesare collated together: in this way they may be distinguished from thoseproto-projections that occur only once.Fourthly, all sets of identical proto-projections are sorted into anew file Cx/F, and the results of this file are printed out.
A sampleof this printout is given in AVVENDIX C. It is remarkable that out ofa total of 74,049 proto-projections only 1,305 items were transferredto Cx/F, these being the only items that showed identical proto-projec-tions in another language.A major edit is made at this point in the system by the linguist,who surveys the sets of proto-projections, and, from his backgroundknowledge decides on the correct reconstruction and adds the vowels.This amended reconstruction is then keypunched, along with the codenumbers which give access to the cognates from which it is generated.The final dictionary file (D/F) is then established by a programme whichfirst enters the reconstruction, then enters the cognates by identifyingthem, removing them to the dictionary file and deleting them fromthe raw data file.
A sample of the final dictionary file, which maybe used as input to an automated typesetting machine, is given in AP-PENDIX D.The machine used was an I~M 370/155 and the following were thestatistics of the first run of data with general programming in FORTRANbut using COBOL for the sorts:File Size CPU(1) R/F N/F 3403 0.
5.52(2) N/F W/F 74049 8.23.81(3) W/F P/F 74049 1.51.44(4) P/F Cx/F 1305 1.01.14Total 11.21.923.
CONCLUSIONSIt should be emphasized that this method does not use the cor-respondences (or sound relationships between daughter languages) inorder to predict possible cognates, but the reflexes (or sound relationshipsbetween each daughter language and the proto language).
All the268 JOHN HEWSONpossible proto forms (consonants and consonant clusters only) are gen-erated rather than all the potential cognates.
What is important isthat the machine does not gather and sort information and make de-cisions in order to proceed to the next step: it simply generates allthe possibilities in one fell swoop, and then collates identical possi-bilities together.
This technique streamlines the whole process and,ultimately, leaves to the linguist the decision as to whether a wordis cognate or not.It is also of importance that the major edit in this system comes ata strategically important moment: after possible cognates have beencollated, and all possible proto-projections listed, but before any de-cisions have been taken as to what is actually cognate.
The machine,in short, carries out the time consuming task of seeking out the possi-bilities hidden in the masses of data and presenting them to the linguist.All that the linguist then has to do is to decide on the items that aregenuinely cognate.The same basic strategy may be applied to any closely related fam-ily of languages, although the programming must be closely tailoredto the details of the languages themselves.
The languages used shouldbe conservative enough to retain sufficient discriminatory features andshould also generally correlate with each other in syllable structure ifthe programming and machine time are to be kept within reasonablebounds.
If one were to attempt he reconstruction of Proto-R.omance,for example, it would be advisable to use Sardinian, Spanish, Italianand l~umanian, and leave the French evidence out.
The loss of inter-vocalic consonants, of final vowels and final consonants has muchreduced the materiality of cognates in French, and thereby reduced theirdiscriminatory power.
A comparison of Italian agosto (with its 6 pho-nemes) and French ao~t (with its one phoneme) immediately demonstra-tes how much historical information is conveyed by the Italian wordand how little the French word tells us.The French data, and that of other divergent languages can be ad-ded later, in fact, in much simpler fashion once the basic proto diction-ary has been established.
From a given Proto-Romance form itshould be possible to predict reasonably accurately what the Frenchword (if it exists) is likely to be.
If one can define an item in such away it would be a simple matter to initiate a search for it.The proto forms must be found, in short, by working back upstreamin time.
This is the difficult part of the task and is best done from theevidence of conservative languages.
Once this difficult upstream workRECONSTRUCTING PREHISTORIC LANGUAGES ON THE COMPUTER 269has been done, it is possible by much easier downstream ethods tocorrelate the evidence from the divergent languages.In both cases there will be a residue once the obvious cases havebeen dealt with by machine methods.
This residue can then be printedout so that the linguist can direct his efforts to the challenging problemsthat remain when the purely mechanical and regular items have beencleared from the data.Such a strategy utilizes the best possible interaction and integrationof man and machine.
Man is poorly designed for collating masses ofdata, but is able to bring a wide range of knowledge and interpretationto a single item of data at any one time.
The machine, on the otherhand, betrays a certain inanity when it comes to matters of interpreta-tion, since it has no knowledge of the world, and is thereby obligedto form its interpretations on mere surface appearances.
The capacityof the machine to collate and search, on the other hand, may wellarouse our admiration.
As for the combination of man and machine,we are only just beginning to realize the potentialities that this combi-nation has for the world of scholarship, and especially for the disci-pline of Linguistics.H .
.
.
.270 JOHN HEWSON<~~ 0<< < <0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0RECONSTRUCTING PREHISTORIC LANGUAGES ON THE COMPUTER 271z0 0 0 0 0 0 ~ 0 0 00vv0~ o~g oo o ~ o~~oo oo~ ~ 0~ ~ Z~n~,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~2720zJOHN HEWSON0 00 00Z0.g.m0~30 # ?z ~~.~ -~;;~~~~.~~Z Z~ ~Z ~ 7~ 7~ Z Z Z Z~n~u=r I  eq cq ~ eq eq eq ~ eq ~?
oN  ~,:,.~ ~ .~= ~ ~-.~,~ ~'~ *~ .
'~ ~ ~=?RECONSTRUCTING PREHISTORIC  LANGUAGES ON THE COMPUTER 273z~ ~ ?o ~ ~ -~ooo60 0 ~ ~ ~~o~o ~ ~ o ~ ~ ~18i
