FERENC PAPPAUTOMATIC ANALYSIS OF HUNGARIAN TEXTS ANDLINGUISTIC DATA1.
First of all I would like to give an account of the practical expe-rience gained in the course of processing the about 60,000 or so entriesof a Hungarian unilingual (explanatory) dictionary (.4 magyar nyelv 3rtel-mez6 szdt,~ra, vv.
I-VII, 1959-1962).
In this case by " text"  we meanthis non-natural corpus, that is the sum total of the entries of the dic-?
tionary; and by linguistic data the information given below.1.1.
Naturally the head-word itself is a linguistic datum as well,as long as it is processed according to its component letters, the pho-nemes represented by them, and its sounds.
Furthermore we codedalso the following data in explicit form beside each head-word:(1) complexity (how many roots does the lexeme consist of),(2) homonymy,(3) part of speech (in case of conversion each possible form classdenoted),(4) the number of meanings,(5) style,(6) morphological data (for words capable of inflexion),(7) strongly required government (only for verbs),(8) etymology,(9) suffix,(10) length (this latter datum, of course, was coded not by us;it was decided and punched on the card in the proper place by theprocessing machine).1.2.
It is a natural concomitant of the ~iutomatic processing thatwe can get back any combination of these linguistic data so as to drawconclusions from it; and that in order to answer a particular questionwe can ask for special outputs.
In the following account I am going288 ~lU~l~C 1,API,to set forth such questions of theoretical or practical character and theanswers given to them.1.2.1.
Some of the conclusions issued simply from the differ-ent mechanical rrangements of the material.
So we got data as regardsthe length of the lexemes included in the examined ictionary, (thoughthese data must be viewed critically: in a larger dictionary there wouldbe presumably a greater number of longer words for any language(F. PAPP, 1970), as regards their distribution according to the num-ber of their meanings (presumably this index too depends, however,on the size of the dictionary and in a very large dictionary it wouldcome close to 1 meaning per lexeme (F. PAPP, 1970)).
As a resultof simple, mechanical arrangements, it was interesting to see theentire material of the dictionary grouped according to complexity-derivation, all the homonyms collected, the elements belongingto the same parts of speech (in the case of conversion all the possiblecombinations of parts of speech) put together, etc.1.2.2.
On the basis of these simple arrangements a project hasbeen started in the course of which the 60.000 entries and the morpho-logical information concerning them have been put into the memoryof the machine and have been used as the basis on which natural Hun-garian texts can be analysed.
(The director of the project is Gy.
Hell,Budapest Technical University).
We are still at the beginning of thiswork, but there is reason to suppose that a mechanical dictionary havingat its disposal the appropriate grammatical information renders an auto-matic analysis of optimum efficiency possible.1.2.3.
The information given by the dictionary led to some fur-ther synchronic and diachronic onclusions.
Let me quote two exam-plea:1) Certain forms of the noun (a possessive form and othersformally similar to it) have long been a problem in Hungarian.
Inthese forms the suffLxes occur sometimes with a j element, sometimeswithout it: Idba "his/her foot" (from /db "foot ") without a j ele-ment and combja "his/her thigh" (from comb "thigh ") with a j ele-ment.
The appearance of the j seems extremely arbitrary: as our pairof examples indicates, it sometimes does and sometimes does not oc-cur even after the same consonant (in this case after b); in spite of thefact that the Hungarian system does not favour consonant clusters, itAUTOMATIC ANALYSIS OF HUNGARIAN TEXTS 289rather appears as a third or fourth consonant after a final consonantgroup fairly inconvenient in itself (like in this case the -rob: comb),than after a single consonant at the end of a lexeme, etc.
After theanalysis of several special arrangements of the material it turned outthat the j serves actually to emphasize the unusual, rare, young, etc.stem-endings; that is why it appears after for example unusual conso-nant combinations.
This treatment of the stem-ending (the specialemphasis given to it) throws light on the one hand on the behaviourof the stem in an agglutinating system; on the other hand on the at-titude of the speaker and the listener, who - it seems in this case -seek to do the automatic analysis with the help of a minimal dictionary.Without the j element he listener would be turning to his inner dic-tionary all the time while doing the analysis: this way, however, heeither meets a typical, frequent, etc.
stem-ending, which therefore herecognizes easily; or a special j element helps him to divide the word(by showing where the comparatively independent suffix-cluster ofthe agglutinating system begins).2) The analysis of the 6000 unquestionable root-words includedin the dictionary (and of the 4000 or so elements that can be regardedin a wider sense as root-words too) led to several results.
So for instanceit came to light that vowel-harmony which is of central importanceto the system of the Hungarian language, has undergone an interestingchange during the one thousand years of the history of the Hungarianlanguage we can directly trace back.
While in the Finno-Ugrian andancient Turkish etymological strata the velar and palatal stems arerepresented half-and-half; the chronologically successive tymologicalstrata (such as Slavic, German, etc.)
contain more and more velarelements; as regards the Latin elements, which belong to the youngestones, the great majority of them is velar.
The data indicate as wellthat vowel harmony holds its own in the system of present-day Hun-garian as well and solves easily, almost without any uncertainty thevocal adaptation of the loanwords which have been streaming contin-uosly into the language for thousand years.We also had made a detailed investigation of phoneme-statisticsabout the different etymological strata of the root-words (with theoDl~ 1204 machine of the Kossuth Lajos University, programmedby P. J6kel), and then also placed the different etymological layers ina 66 dimension space depicting the phonemes.
The multi-dimensionalspace proved to be very manageable.
Besides revealing trivial truthssuch as " i t  is the layer of the inner, Hungarian developments hat is19290 r~RENC PAI'Pnearest o the Finno-Ugrian layer ", or "the Latin and Neo-Latinlayers are the farthest ones from the Finno-Ugrian layer ", it gaveabout these distances certain valuable quantitative indices as well onthe basis of which the model could be applied to other fields whereindeed it has already brought really new results (cf.
2.1.2).2.
We have prepared natural Hungarian texts as well for automaticprocessing.
At the time of writing, a text of half a million phonemes(the complete poetic works of E. Ady), has already undergone thedescription set out below; further texts of similar size from the completeworks of 20th century and earlier Hungarian poets will be put intothe machine in the near future.
The general aim of this work is naturallyto have a thoroughly controlled, uniformly punched Hungarian text-store consisting of millions or tens of millions of phonemes.
A com-putational text-store like that can serve as the basis of automatic proc-essings of different levels and of concrete purposes.
In the followingsome of these will be described; especially the one that has alreadybeen most fully realized.2.1.
These texts have been processed first on the level of pho-nemes.
For this purpose a program has been made thata) changes texts written with present-day Hungarian orthog-raphy from letters into phonemes;b) identifies and counts the phonemes, produces tabular andother indices from them as outputs;c) places the different texts in a multi-dimensional space accordingto the results measured alongside the phonemes, and measures theirdistances observed in this space.In the following we illustrate by only a few examples what weexpect from a processing like this and what we have already got from it.2.1.1.
A thorough phoneme-statistical work done on a much lar-ger corpus that the previous ones might disprove certain prejudices.So it has been a fairly widespread belief that a large proportion ofvowels in a text is beautiful.
(In connection with this e. g. the Italianlanguage is often praised for its high ratio of vowels).
In respect of atleast the examined Hungarian texts, however, it has turned out thatthe proportion of vowels depends on the average length of the run-ning words: the longer words are more vocalic than the shorter ones;AUTOMATIC ANALYSIS OF HUNGARIAN TEXTS 291therefore the poetic texts containing naturally more short words areless vocalic than the different echnical texts.2.1.2.
We have been measuring the distances of the different extsin the multi-dimensional space.
Up to the present our most valuableresult is that the first juvenile volume of the above-mentioned E. Ady,which Hungarian l i terati  and aestheticians consider not to be charac-.teristic of the later poet, is really so far from the other volumes, fromhis oeuvre  - specifically as regards its tone, that it has to be stated froma pure mathematical aspect also that it takes place in quite a differentpart of space non-characteristic of the author.
The results we are expect-ing just now concern the relation of a poet's own poems and his transla-tions; what are the acoustic distances among his own volumes and transla-ted volumes of a poet who translated a lot and wrote a great numberof poems of his own as well; what is the situation if he translated arather bulky volume twice in his life.
(That is what happened to the20th century L. Szab6 who translated Shakespeare's Sonnets  both atthe beginning and towards the end of his poetic life: we are going tomeasure the distance of these two complete volumes from each-other,from the original Szab6-volumes of the same periods, and from hisother volumes of translations as well as from other contemporaryHungarian poets).2.2.
The punched material may offer us even farther-reaching pos-sibilities for the near and the distant future.2.2.1.
The easiest and most natural step forward will be to compilealso sound-statistics after the phoneme-statistics, especially as there isan excellent theoretical preliminary study to it (J. Loxz, 1972), whichhas already been applied to the computer (T. Am~w~auT, A. Km~x,1972).2.2.2.
Naturally we are going to advance towards the compila-tion of poetic concordance dictionaries as well as towards the morpho-logical and syntactical processing of the given material.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ r ~ ~ ~ ~ w  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ i ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ "T  ~ l ~  ~ ~KEFER.ENCEST.
ARK~TRIGHT, A. KFA~K, The Mechan-ical Conversion of Hungarian Script toPhonetic Notation, 1972 (manuscript).J.
LOTZ, Script, Grammar and the HungarianWriting System, Budapest, 1972.F.
PAPP, Sur quelques lois statistiques duvocabulaire, in Actes du X e Congr~s In-ternational des linguistes, Bucarest, 1970,pp.
471--475.
