NICHOLAS D. ANDREYEVALGOKITHMISATION OF LINGUISTIC RESEARCHUSING THE STRUCTURAL-PROBABILISTICPROPERTIES OF LANGUAGE UNITSFirst of all, I must confess that the algorithmisation i  question isonly a by-product of the structural-probabilistic analysis, whose mainand openly immodest purpose is to re-write anew the whole book oflanguage theory, and especially of its development.Nevertheless, the algorithmisation of linguistic research, both par-tial and in full, is feasible, and has already been done in dozens of exper-iments during the last 15 years.
This algorithmisation is essentiallybased upon the assumption that quantitative characteristics are aninherent part of the language structure.In order to prove this hypothesis, let us consider the so-called"intuitive statistics ": first, its facts, then their theoretical interpret-at\]on.TABLE 1.XAOrI TOIl, OXPI/III CTOAII .
.
.
.
.IIPI/IgM, IIOlYITH, I lb lAb, IIEPEXOA, .
.
.
.If you ask a Russian man in the street, what series of words wouldbe easier to prolong, the upper or the lower one, nine times out often(or, better to say, 99 times out of 100), he gives a quick and correctanswer.And how to interprete this well-verified and therefore undeniablefact?
Does this knowledge, belonging to the man in the street, consti-tute a part of the language structure inside his brain, or is it somethingbeyond that structure?156 NICHOLAS D. ANDI~YEVTABLE 2.I.
PALEONTOLOGY,  SUN, SOUP, ....II.
EVENT(S),  CLOUD(S), VEGETABLE(S),., .
.Now let us turn to such a simple case as plural form of nouns.
Ofcourse, it is possible to say: the planet of two suns, these two soups areincompatible, the distinguished professors do have different paleontologies, butall these cases are rarities of the kind, and we know the fact withoutany count.On the other hand, the plurals of the second group are quite com-mon, and occur as often as (or even more frequently) than their respec-tive singulars.
Consequendy, every native speaker of English feels thedifference between class I and class n, once more not having countedanything at all.T2mLB 3.1.
NEVER2.
RARELY3.
NOT CLEAR4.
FREQUENTLY5.
ALWAYSPsycholinguistic experiments prove that a man, sufficiently mature,has a probabilistic ladder in his mind, on the five steps of which notonly the life situations, but also language phenomena are disposed;TAnLE 4.AWRA?~: Usually about 30 % of the whole setof noun occurences are plural.A.
Singularia tantumB.
Predominantly singular class (1-10 %)C. Average class (20 %-40 %)D. Predominantly plural class (50 %-90 %)E. Pluralia tantumALGORITHMISATION OF LINGUISTIC RESEARCH 157Returning to the singulars and plurals, we may observe that thereexists a probabilistic scale of nouns which divides all of them into fivegroups, according to their respective proportions between plural andsingular forms.Thus we have come closely to the conceptions of categorial measureand its classifying role.
The figures in the table 4 express the categ-orial measure of plurality; of course it could be done in terms ofsingularity.The short time, which is at my disposal, does not permit me to supplyyou with strict mathematical definitions, the latter being too compli-cated to be understandable at first glance.T~r~E 5.Any strong governing is a case of high categorialmeasure (CM), e.g.
:Verb CM ClassLOVE 0.98 4.
(High transitivity)KNOW 0.51 3.
(Middle t.)WORK 0.02 2.
(Low t.)LAUGH 0 1.
(Intransitivity)Average factual occurrence of a direct object is 35 ~/oof factual verb occurrences in English texts.Traditional structural linguistics has already elaborated a conceptionwhich has some kinship to the notion of categorial measure; I mean theso-called "strong governing ".
But the limits of the phenomenon havenever been established, - at least, unanimously.Of course, the boundaries between classes 4,3,2,1, are not thin lines,they have some probabilistic thickness, but such is the very nature ofthe system of classes under consideration here.158 NICHOLAS D. ANDREYEVTABLE 6.The Correlational Functional (CF).Verb CM CF Class0.35AVERAGE 0.35 -- 1 - -0.350.98LOVE 0.98 -- 2.8 40.35KNOW 0.51 1.5 3WORK 0.02 0.1 2LA UGH 0 0 1These four classes are a clear case of a probabilisticdistinctive f ature (PDF).
Another one is represent-ed by the five classes based on the CM of plural-ity/singularity.Here we proceed to a more sophisticated notion of the correla-tional function which is defined as a ratio of the individual categorialmeasure of a processed linguistic unit to the average categorialmeasure.When the correhtional function is equal or near to 1, we have atypical representative of the set, whose properties are standard (or quasi-standard) from the considered point of view.If the CF substantially exceeds 1 (the boundary of substantialityis determined by factor analysis), then we have met a representative ofan upper class (whatever its name).Last, if the CF is substantially ess than 1, then before us there is anitem from a lower class.
Sometimes, it is very important o make adistinction between the lower class and the zero class, as well as betweenthe higher class and the absolute class.
This particular situation may befound in the case of plurality/singularity.The categorial measure being the basis for the classification and forestablishing oppositions, we come to the notion of probabilistic distinc-tive feature, which may be defined (without mathematical details andtherefore not too strictly) as a feature generating quantitative differences,ALGORITHMISATION OF LINGUISTIC RESEARCH 159and the latter ones, when strong and stable enough, may be defined ascreating qualitative oppositions at the level of mental perception.TABLE 7.Interaction between two PDF's: between transitivityand commentability.I know himI know that he wouldn't do it -I hope that he (&) -- Transitivity- Commentabilityboth timesVerb CF (Tr-ty) CF (Com-ty) XCFLOVE 2.8+0.6 0 \[2.8\]KNOW 1.54-0.5 3.14-1.1 \[4.61HOPE 0 5.54-1.6 \[5.5\]A case of probabilistic complementary distribution(PCD).Probabilistic distinctive features are not independent of each other.Of course, it is not oflqcially forbidden to say:I know him, and his habits, and his wish to do it exactly as usual, andthat he never would do it another way,but such examples are very rare.
For all practical purposes, we may con-sider transitivity and commentabilitity as nearly absolutely excluding eachother.
By the way, it is wrong to interpret he latter as a particularcase of the former; English to hope, French esp3rer, German hoffen, andRussian HA~EFITbCH, - they all are intransitive, and at the same timecommentable, which proves the point.So, when the possibility of simultaneous realisation of two (or more)PDF's is near to zero (or equal to), then we have the right to speakabout a probabilistic omplementary distribution.160 NICHOLAS D. ANDREYEVTABLE 8.A heuristic task: to investigate the (English)verb and to dis-cover PCD's, as many cases as possible.A Routine For Rs Solution1.
Fix all the factual syntactic links of verbs in a given corpusof texts.2.
Find the average CM for each type of link.3.
Sort out a prescribed quantity of the most frequent verbsin each type of link.4.
Measure the CF's, i.e.
the individual values of them for eachverb sorted out, thus establishing the PDF's.5.
Correlate the PDF values considering them as componentsof a multi-dimensional vector.6.
Dine well if you have found a new case of a PCD: it's rarerthan a wife who neglects a new vogue more often thanonce a year.It may be easily seen, that all the procedures included in the set ofroutines admit algorithmisation and subsequent computerisation (ex-cept number 6, for obvious reasons).
