M. V. AAI, OV- M. M. Flul~ZFREQUENCY AND AGE AS CHARACTERISTICS OF A WORD1.
The problem of rdation between the frequency and age of aword is only a small part of the general problem of opposition of thesynchronic and diachronic aspects of language.
The frequency is ob-viously a purely synchronic haracteristic of a word whereas the age(the time interval t between the appearance of the word and the pres-ent moment) is a purely diachronic one.
However there is a simpledependence between both characteristics: the old age of a word cor-responds to a high frequency ranking and vice-versa: among the wordswith low frequency the proportion of ancient words is small.
Theexistence of this dependency was first discovered by G. K. Zlvr (1947).2.
To obtain this dependency in analytical form let us split thewhole frequency dictionary into a number of groups of equal size(n words in each of the groups).
* Each group consists of words of equalor nearly equal values of frequency.
The most frequently used n wordsbelong to the group with rank 1, the following n words constitutethe group with rank 2 and the words having in the dictionary numbersfrom ( i -  1) n + 1 till i.n constitute a group with rank i.Then the ratio N(i, t) of words with an age equal to or greaterthan t in the i-th group of the dictionary is:(1) N(;, 0 = ~v ( -  Kt V~)where K is a constant.3.
There is a simple method to obtain (2) from (1).
Formula (2)gives us the distribution i  the dictionary of words with age t, t, < t ~ t~ :(2) N(;, t~, t~)= Nq, t~)-  N q, t~)----1 In our experiments  ---- 100.4 M.V.
ARAPOV- M. M. H ERZThe interpretation of (2) as a function of rank i is as follows: the num-ber of words that appeared in the time interval tl-t~ (for example: from973 till 1073 A. D.) is growing till it reaches some rank i,,~, wherethe function (2) will obtain its maximum value and then it will de-crease approaching zero.
The maximum value function (2) is the nearerto the beginning of the rank axis the more ancient he epoch considered.The maximum value for the above cited example places it in the groupwith rank 16 (i,,~ = 16); if we chose the XVII-th century as a timeinterval the point of maximum value would shift to the group withrank 134 (i,,~ = 134).
Here we have supposed the mean value of Kto be 0.025 which holds for a number of European languages.
Thevalue of function (2) at the point of maximum is the greater the moreproximate to our day are the time intervals we choose.
Here we havea sort of mapping of the time axis on the rank 1.4.
The dependency between age and frequency is a dependency" in the mean ".
There is no way of predicting, for any word witha given age, the frequency of that particular word.
All predictionswould be applied only to sets of words.
By (1) we can obtain the ratioof words in the considered group i having an age equal to/greaterthan t, but by no means can we establish exactly which words havesuch an age.One of the basic postulates from which (1) was established consistsin the following: there exists no difference between ew and old ele-meats in their behaviour on each step of vocabulary evolution, i.e.the probability of " dissociation" is equal (or nearly equal) for allthe words of the same group.5.
Another basic postulate of our theory is as follows.
There isno intrinsic difference between any two vocabularies which can bedescribed by (1) or similar functions if this pair of vocabularies repre-sents two historical stages of the evolution of the same language.
Inother words the collation of a pair of frequency dictionaries compiledfor two successive periods in the history of the same language doesnot in itself (without consideration of historical evidence) make itpossible to determine which of the dictionaries corresponds to thelater (resp.
previous) epoch.6.
Then it is necessary to assume the independence in frequencyshifting of any particular word.
This assumption rules out the appli-FREQUENCY AND AGE AS CHARACTERISTICS OF A WORD 5cation of our theory in other than the vocabulary levels of the languagesystem, since it excludes the situation when dissociation of a particularelement yields a " chain reaction " which results in the whole rebuild-ing of the system.7.
The following problems would be solved within the frame-work of the present heory:a) if we have reason to suppose that a given set S of words ap-peared in a period preceeding some moment t (the value of parameterK is given), we can calculate the absolute value of t; examples of S:the set of words appeared before the splitting of the parent language;the set of words experienced the influence of a given phonetic law,etc.
; this problem is the same as the one which glottochronology hasattempted to solve.b) if we have reason to suppose that a given set S of words?
appeared in a time period following some moment , we can obtainthe absolute value of t (in this case the words belonging to S are in-novations, specifically, borrowings) or demonstrate hat this momentdoes not exist (in this case, the given set S most probably consists ofvernacular words).c) having historical data about the time of appearance of thewords forming the initial part of the frequency dictionary (1000-3000most frequent words) we can calculate, with the aid of (1), indexesof the evolution rate K (K= K(t)) for the whole vocabulary andfor any stage of the language for which historical data is obtainable.d) analogously we can study with the aid of (2) the dynamicsof language borrowing and obtain indexes of intensity of vocabularyinteraction for any period for which corresponding data is available.8.
For testing the present heory we have taken the frequencylists for the following languages: Russian (two lists), Czech (one),French (two), l~oumanian (three), Spanish (one), German (two) andEnglish (two).
The volume of the lists is spread from 600 to 6000words.
The period for which lexicological data are available (depthof analysis did not exceed 1000-1500 years) was present as a systemof intervals: (0, tl), (0, t~), (0, ts)..., where tl < t~ < t~ ... and zerocorresponds to the present moment.
We take t as an age of the wordx if x was primarily registered in the language at t,, t, > t and thereexists no such time interval (0, t,) that t, > t, > t.6 M.V .
ARAPOV- M. M. ttERZThe observed ependency N(i, t) upon t only roughly, for a longperiod, corresponds to the theoretical derived one, hence we soughtto investigate also fluctuation of vocabulary change rate (K = K(t)).A full account on theoretical and experimental aspects of theproblem " age and frequency" is contained in M. V. AaAvov, M.M.
H~Rz (1972).t~EFE1LENCESM.
V. ARAPOV, M. M. H~z, lzmenenieslovarja vo vremeni, n * Informatsion-nye voprosy semiotiki, lingvistiki iavtomatitsheskogo perevoda,, III (1972).G.
K. Z~Pr, Prehistoric 'cultural strata'in the evolution of German: the case ofGothic, in ~ Modern Language Notes ,,LXII (1947).
