S~AS~AN K. SAVMJAN - P. A. SO~Or~VAFORMAL METALANGUAGE AND FORMAL THEORY ASTWO ASPECTS OF GENERATIVE GRAMMARAs is known, metalanguage is a language by means of which an-other language is described.
The latter is called object-language.One and the same language may play the role of object-languageand metalanguage.
For example, the Russian language taken as anobject of linguistic description is an object-language, the Russian lan-guage used for a linguistic description of Russian is a metalanguage.There are non-formal and formal metalanguages.
For example,the Russian language used in ordinary grammars of Russian as a meansof describing the Russian language is a non-formal metalanguage.Formal metalanguage is an artificial language, defined by deductiverules of construction, and used to describe natural anguages.The problem of formal metalanguages for linguistic descriptionsis a broad topic which we do not mean to-exhaust.
We shall restrictourselves to clarifying the role of formal metalanguages in constructinggenerative grammars.Every generative grammar is a formal theory.
For example, a gen-erative grammar of Russian is a formal theory of Russian, a generativegrammar of English is a formal theory of English.
We shall focus ourattention on the question of correlation between formal metalanguagesand formal linguistic theories understood as generative grammars.
Letus take a concrete xample: formal metalanguage and formal theoryas two aspects of applicative generative grammar.
This concrete xam-ple will make it possible, we hope, to draw certain general conclusionsabout the role of formal metalanguages in generative grammar.We shall start with formal metalanguage in applicative generativegrammar.
We call this metalanguage a universal operator language.The universal operator language is defined by the grammar whichis an ordered quadruple(v,, V ,F, R5: / jr64 SEBASTIAN K. ~AUMJAN- P. A. SOBOLEVAwhere:1.
V, is the lexicon of symbols whose denotata belong to a finiteset of elementary categories called elementary episemions.
The elemen-tary episemions are denoted by the symbols 0c and \[3.
The first is in-terpreted as the category of terms, and the second - as the categoryof sentences.
The episemion \[3 is called the distinguished episemion.Complex categories called episemions are constructed from elemen-tary episemions.
The construction of episemions i effected with thehelp of the function A, which maps episemions into each other.
Therules for constructing episemions are the following:(a) elementary episemions are episemions(b) if p and q are episemions, then A pq is also an episemion.Rule (b) presented as a tree looks as follows:(1) P qPqFor example:(2)A~I3The episemion A0~ may be interpreted as the category of one-placepredicates (i.e.
the function which maps terms into sentences), for exam-ple burn, arrive, sleep, stay etc.
(3) 0~ 0cA0c~The episemion A0~0~ may be interpreted as the category of term identi-tiers (i.e.
the function which maps terms into terms), for examplebig, good, John's, burning (in burning eyes, burning house) etc.
(4) ~ A0c\[3A~A~\[3The episemion A0cA~\[3 may be interpreted as the category of two-placepredicates (i.e.
the function which maps terms into one-place predi-cates or, in other words, the function which maps two terms into sen-tences), for example read, see, expect, like etc.-%FORMAL METALANGUAGE AND FORMAL TItEORY 65(s)The episemion AA~130c may be interpreted as the category of depred-icators (i.e.
the function which maps one-place predicates into terms),for example -al (in'arrival), -ation (in relaxation) etc.
(6) ~ Aoc~The episemion A~A,~ may be interpreted as the category of denomi-native adjectivisers (i.e.
the function which maps terms into termidentifiers), for example -y (in stony path), -less (in heartless man), 's(in John's house), of (in the house of John) etc.
(7) a~ A~The episemion AA0~A~ may be interpreted as the category of adjec-tivising depredicators (i.e.
the function which maps one-place predi-cates into term identifiers), for example -ing (in burning house), -7 (sleepychild) etc.2.
V s is the lexicon of symbols whose denotata are elementarymeanings.
These symbols are called elementary semions.
For exampleT - an elementary semion which is interpreted as an object belong-ing to the category of terms.P1 - an elementary semion interpreted as an object belonging tothe category of one-place predicates.P~ - an elementary semion interpreted as an object belonging tothe category of two-place predicates.A - an elementary semion interpreted as an object belonging tothe category of term identifiers.D r - an elementary semion interpreted as an object belonging tothe category of depredicators.Da - an elementary semion interpreted as an object belonging tothe category of adjectivizing depredicators.+,66 SEBASTIAN K. ~AUMJAN- P. A. SOBOLEVASfa - an elementary semion interpreted as an object belonging tothe category of denominative adjectivisers etc.3.
F is a so-called assignment function which places each elementarysemion in correspondence with one or several episemions.
The workof the assignment function may be represented by the formulaeXwhere e is any episemion and X is a semion with which it has beenplaced in correspondence, for example0~TA~ P1A~A~ P2Aoco~ AAoc~o~ DrAA~SA~ DAA~A~ Sfa etc.4.
R - are rules for constructing combinations of elementary se-mions which are called semions.
These rules are as follows:(a) an elementary semion is a semion;(b) if X is a semion which belongs to the episemion A pq, andY is a semion, belonging to the episemion p, then (XY) is a semion,belonging to the episemion q.Rule (b) presented as a tree looks as follows:(8) pYq(xr)We shall call X an operator, Y - an operand, and (XY) is the re-sult of application of X to Y. P,.ule (b) is called the rule of applicationof semions.Ikule (b) can be illustrated in the following way:(9) A~Px 0cT(P1 T)If P1 is interpreted as stay and T as John then the semion P1 T is in-terpreted as the sentence John stays.
(Note that in the abstract operatorlanguage the operator always precedes the operand.
So a natural an-FORMAL NLETALANGUAGE AND FORMAL THEORY 67guage analogue of the semion/2, T is stays John rather than John stays).Below are given several more illustrations of rule (b):A~0c~10~,Da A0C~Px(10) Aococ (DAP~) octoc((DAP~)T)If the elementary semion DA is interpreted as -ing, Pz as burn (intr.
),then the semion DAP1 is interpreted as burning.
If T is interpreted ashouse, then the semion ((DAP1)T) is interpreted as burning house.
(Theexact order of elements being ((-ing burn) house)).AocAococSf~ ocT Aoc~ocD T Aoc~P1(11) Aococ(SfAT) oc(DrP~)oc ( (SL T) (DrP~))If Sfa is interpreted as 's, T - as John, then Sf,~ T corresponds to John's.If D r is interpreted as -al, Px - as arrive, then DrPI corresponds to ar-rival.
The derived semion ((Sf.4 T) (DTP))serves as a genotype analogueof the noun phrase John's arrival (the exact order of elements being(('s John) (-al arrive))).Such is the grammar which defines the construction of the univer-sal operator language.
If an empirical interpretation is assigned to epi-semions and semions, the universal operator language may serve asa formal metalanguage for the description of any natural language.The universal operator language has sufficient potentialities to constructsemions which serve as abstract analogues of sentences of any degreeof complexity.
By way of an example we shall construct semionswhich serve as abstract analogues of the following complex phrases:I see a burning house (12) andI expect John's arrival (13).The tree below shows the construction of the genotype analogueof the first phrase:A~ (DAp~) ~ T 1(12) AocAoc~P~ oc ( (DAP1) T ~)Aoc~(P~((D~Pz)Tz)) ocT 2~((P~((DaPI)T~))T 2)68 SEBASTIAN K. SAUMJAN- P. A. SOBOLEVAThe final semion ((P2 ((DaP1) 7"i)) T ~) which is an object belongingto the category of\[3, i.e.
sentence, is an abstract analogue of a two-placepredicate sentence with a participle defining one of its terms.The construction of the second semion is shown below:A~A~Sfa ~ T 1 AA~f3o~Dr A~3P1Ao~o~(SfA T ~) o~(DrP~)(13) T1)(DTP ))A~(Pz((SfAT~)(DrPI)) ) ~W 2~ (P, ( ( Sfa T~) (DrP1) ) T *)The final semion P,((SfAT' ) (DrP,))T ~ which also belongs to thecategory of \[~, i.e.
sentence, is an abstract analogue of a two-place pred-icate sentence with a nominalized phrase as one of its arguments.However complex the constructed semion may be, the process ofconstruction fails to show how two primitive structures of the typeI see a house and The house is burning are transformed into (12), thesecond becoming a participial phrase in (12), or how two primitivestructures of the type I expect smth.
and John is arriving are transformedinto (13), the second becoming a nominalized phrase in (13).Though the construction of semions accounts for the generationof the abstract analogues of sentences of any degree of complexity itdoes not aim to show such essential grammatical processes as nomi-nalization or adjectivation of phrases, formation of complex predicatesfrom simple ones or of simple sentences from complex sentences etc.So in spite of the abstract character of the universal operator languageit does not allow us to rise above the level of taxonomic descriptionof natural anguages.The necessity for the formal theory of natural anguages followsfrom the two-level principle in linguistic studies.
According to thetwo-level principle every natural anguage is stratified into two lan-guages: the phenotype language and the genotype language.
Thephenotype language is a natural language as is given in immediateobservation.
The genotype language is hidden, not given in immediateobservation; it is a construct language which consists of two sub-lan=guages: the basic genotype language and the derived genotype lan-guage.
The basic genotype language is the language of thought rep-resentation; the expressions of the basic genotype language whichconsist of elementary predicates may be identified with the thoughtswhich are to be embodied into a linguistic form.
The embodimentFORMAL METALANGUAGE AND FORMAL THEORY 69of thoughts into a lingustic form is effected in two stages.
At the firststage the expressions of the basic genotype language, which are identi-fied with thoughts, are transformed into the expressions of the derivedgenotype language, regarded as abstract linguistic forms which em-body thoughts.
At the second stage the expressions of the derivedgenotype language are transformed into the expressions of the phe-notype language regarded as the concrete linguistic forms of thoughtembodiment.
Thus, the derived genotype language may be consideredas an intermediary language between the basic genotype language andthe phenotype language.The transformations u ed to convert phrases of the basis genotypelanguage into phrases of the derived genotype language may be describ-ed with the help of logical operators called combinators.
ISince natural anguages erve the purpose of communication be-tween people, the grammar of every natural anguages must possessthe means for the transformation of thoughts into linguistic formsand, vice-versa, the means for the transformation Of linguistic formsinto thoughts.Grammar viewed in such a way is a hypothetic transducer, whichis not given in immediate observation, but which makes it possible totransform the phrases of the basic genotype languages into the phrasesof the derived genotype language, and the phrases of the derived gen-otype language into the phrases of the phenotype language, and vice-versa, the phrases of the phenotype language into the phrases of thederived genotype language, as well as the phrases of the derived geno-type language into the phrases of the basic genotype language.The formal theory of natural languages must use the universaloperator language as a formal metalanguage for a description of thebasic genotype language, the derived genotype language and the phe-notype language.Below we shall specify the type of rules for .postulating the basicgenotype language and the type of rules for obtaining the derived gen-otype language.
The basic genotype language consists of one-, two-and three-place predicates obtained through the rule:(14) S ~ I CJ P3 T~gT* 1x See.
S. K. ~AUMJAN (1971), pp.
127-133.70 SEBASTIAN K. SAUMJAN- P. A. SOBOLEVAIn (14) S is a global symbol of sentence, i.e.
a semion belonging tothe category ~.
/91 in (14) is a one-place predicate with a sentence asits argument.
Its episemion is A~.
P2 is a two-place predicate witha sentence and a term as its arguments.
Its episemion is A~A.0~.
P3 isa three-place predicate with a sentence and two terms as its arguments.The episemion ascribed to it is A0~/X~A~.
Cj is a two-place operatorof conjunction with sentences as its arguments.
Its episemion is A~A\[5~.is a sentence which is an argument of P1, P2 and P3 (an embeddedsentence).
Its episemion is ~.
The status of T has been discussed onpage 65.
It is an object belonging to the category of terms.
In (14) itis an argument of P1, P~ and P3~ 'The one-place predicate P1 corresponds to modal words in nat-ural languages, uch as possibly, probably, perhaps etc.
It may also cor-respond to aspectual words, such as begin, continue, stop.
The two-placepredicate P2 corresponds to volitive predicates uch as wish, want,like, dislike, hate etc., emotive predicates uch as amuse, upset, distress,intimidate, etc., mental perception predicates, such as know, expect,think, believe tc., P~ may also correspond to some other classes of pred-icates which we shall omit for lack of space.
The common featurewhich brings together these predicates is their status of two-placeoperators: applied to an embedded sentence and then to a noun-phrasethey yield a sentence.
For example: want (come John) I, believe (comeMary) Nick.The three-place predicate Ps corresponds to causative and commu-nicative verbs such as order, persuade, say, tell, beg, implore.
For example:order man (open fire man) qff~cer, tell John (come Mary) Nick.The above illustration of the two- and three-place predicates igiven in the so-called hybrid language.
The hybrid language is also aformal operator language.
It answers the description given on pp.
63-66except for the composition of Vs.
If in the operator metalanguageproper V s is the lexicon of symbols whose deaotata re elementarymeanings called elementary semions (predicates, terms), in the hybridlanguage the role of semions is played by the lexical stems of a con-crete natural anguage.
As a result a mixed language is obtained.
Itsgrammatical component is the applicative grammar, and its lexicalcomponent is constituted by the lexical items of a concrete language.
3The embedded sentence ,~ in (14) is rewritten as either a one-placeFor greater detail see S. K. ~AUMJAI~I (1971), pp.
137-139.8 See S. K. ~AUMJ^N (1971), pp.
134-135.FORMAL METALANGUAGE AND FORMAL THEORY 71or a two-place predicate of the type/51 T, 152 7'1 T 2, where/5~ and/52are predicates with terms as their arguments (rather than embeddedsentences as in case of/)1, P2 and P3 in (14)) or as predicates, uch asin (14):/5 r/32TI T~(15) S --->.
P I~P2STP~ T~ g T~cjgIf the names of the predicates: modal Md, aspective As, volitiveVI, mental perception Mr, causative Ca and communicative Cm areintroduced in the genotype language as constants which are substi-tuted for the variables/)1, P2 and P3 as in (16)-(18):(16) P '~ As(17) Ps -~ EmMt(,8, lCalcma great variety of sentences can be obtained which constitute an essen-tial part of the basic genotype language.For example, a basic genotype language sentence(19) Md(Mt(/51TI)T ")is obtained by rule (14), a double application of rule (15), rules (16)and (17).
It may be interpreted as Perhaps, you think she is wrong.
Abasic genotype language sentence(20) CaT~(CaT~(/5~ T T')T~)T4is obtained by rule (14), a double application of rule (15) and rule (18).It may be interpreted as Jane 4 persuaded Mary x (that) Mary 1 order thepupils ~ (that) pupils~ work in the garden 3.72 SEBASTIAN K. "SAUMJAN-P. A. SOBOLEVANote 1.
The identical indices of the terms point to the identityof the object of causation and the subject of the situation caused.Note 2.
R.ules (14) - (18) are but a possible example of the gener-ative rules of the basic genotype language.By applying the rules of derivation to the basic genotype languagewe obtain the derived genotype language which includes basic andderived genotype sentences.In the process of derivation an essential role is played by the com-binators or operators on functions.
4The combinators may be also called transformational operators.In the derivations considered below we shall use the followingcombinators:B - the compositor of functions.
It composes the predicates ofthe matrix and the embedded sentences (Cp.
"predicate -raising "in the transformational grammar).The combinator B as well as the other combinators may be appliedboth to basic and derived genotype sentences according to the rule(21) X(YZ)  --* BXYZwhere X is the predicate of the matrix sentence, Y is the predicate ofthe embedded sentence, and BXY is a complex predicate with Z asits argument.For example(22) Md(.PT)--+ BMd_~Tillustrated in the hybrid language asPerhaps (come John) -+ B may come Johnand interpreted asPerhaps, John will come -+ John may ?comeThe Compositor B is als0 used for Simulating 5 Such transformations aI expect John ?will come -+ !
expect John to comeOn the combinators see H. B. CURRY (1958), p. 153; H. B. CURRY (1963), p. 118.See also S. K. ~AUMJAN (1971).b The role of combinators in simulating transformations and obtaining semanticfields is discussed in S. K. ~AUMJAN and P. A. SOBOLEVA (1973).FORMAL.
METALANGUAGE AND FORMAL THEORY 73L -, the confluentor of functions with identicalarguments:(23) XZ (YZ) ~ LXYZwhere X is the predicate of the matrix, Y - of the embedded sentence,and Z is the identical argument of both sentences, for example:(24) CaTI(~I T' )T  ~ -+ LCa151T1T 2which simulates the transformation of causation:* Mary persuaded John, John cameMary persuaded John to comeThe combinator L fulfils the function, analogical to "predicate-raising ", "subject-raising ", and "equi-NP-deletion ", applied si-multaneously.W-  the duplicator, which, applied to a function with two iden-tical arguments,, deletes one o f  them, turning a two-place functioninto a one-place function:(25) .
XYY --+ WXYRule (25) is used in the process of  deriving genotype analoguesof subjective infinitives, for example(26) ?
VI(15T1)T 1 -~ BVliST~T ~ ~ W(BVL  iS)T ~illustrated in the hybrid language aslike (sing John 1) John 1 ~ B like sing John 1 John 1W(B like sing) John ~and interprete d as* John likes, John sings ~ * john likes John to sing ~John likes to singCv - the converter of arguments:(27) XZY -~ CvXYZ74 SEBASTIAN K. SAUMJAN- P. A. SOBOLEVAwhere X is the predicate, Y and Z are its arguments.
The derivationwith the help of Cv is analogous to the transformations" flip" (" psych-movement ") and passivization (see foot-note 5).K~ - the operator of introducing a dummy argument:(28)K~ VZXY 1VXY ~ Ks VXZYK, VXYZwhere V is the predicate, X and Y are its arguments and Z is a dummyargument introduced either immediately after V (if/?1 is applied), orafter X or Y (if Ks and/?3 are applied correspondingly), for example(29) VI(/3T')T2 -+ K1 VL To(#TI )T  swhich may be interpreted as* I like, John sings -+ I like it (that)John singsThe operator K may be used to model the derivation of various it-con-structions in English.
The combination of K~ and Cv is similar in effectto extraposition.U -  the operator which exchanges the roles of the function andits argument:(30) XY ~ UYXThe application of this operator will be illustrated later.
The combi-nator U is used in the process of the derivation of the genotype ana-logues of verbal nouns, gerundial phrases and cleft sentences.H - the operator which, applied to a predicate of P~ (i = 1, 2, 3)type changes it into a predicate of/3 type by nominalizing an embed-ded sentence, for example(31) PST ~ H/3(Rr  S )Ttwhich may be interpreted e.g.
asI believe John will come ~ I believe that John will comeThe operator R~ is a nominalizer belonging to the category A~and interpreted as that or a complex of morphemes prep...'s...-ing, forexampleFORMAL METALANGUAGE AND FORMAL THEORY 75(32) Em (iST~T2)T 8 ---> HEm(R r (DT~T~))T swhich may be given an interpretation f* John is amused, Harry plays the pianoJohn is amused at Harry's playing the pianoSeveral more combinators are used in applicative generative gram-mar but we shall not dwell upon them here.
For lack of space we shallalso omit their categorial status.
:Besides the combinatory derivation rules there are rules of a dif-ferent kind, such as relativization, pronominalization a d some others.Here we shall give the rule of relativization:(33) cj z(R (xr)r)Where X is the predicate of the first conjoint sentence, Z - the pred-icate of the second conjoint sentence and Y is the identical argumentof both X and Z. iRA is the operator of relativization, a semion belong-ing to the category Al3A0~0~.
The full notation of the relativizer is At3A,0~Ra.
The notation shows that R~ is the operator which applied?
to asentence, maps it into a term identifier.
The interpretation of (33) isungrammatical for English and further derivation rules are necessaryto obtain the analogues of complex sentences with relative clauses orwith participial phrases.Now we have sufficient means at our disposal to obtain the genotypeanalogues of (12) and (13) as well as of other complex constructionswith all kind of complements.The analogue of (12) is obtained from the basic genotype sentenceCj (~1 TI) (~  T1 T~) by applying the rule of relativization and two com-binatory rules with the compositor B and duplicator W. Below thesteps of the derivation are given in a column:(34)  2.-b2(R~(-b'T1)T')T23.
\[)~(BRAP'T'T')T ~4.
J52(W(BRA~)T~)T~e A different way of deriving gerundial structures with the help of the combinatorU is discussed in S. K. ~AUMJ,tW and P. A. SO~OL~.VA (1973).76 SEBASTIAN K. SAUMJAN- P. A. SOBOLEVAFor the sake of clarity, derivation (34) may be repeated in the termsof the so-called hybrid language, i.e.
a language the grammatical com-ponent of which is formed by applicative grammar and the lexicalcomponent - by the lexical items of a concrete natural anguage, suchas English, for example:(35)1.
Cj (burn house) (see house I)2. see(Ra(burn house) house) I3.
see(BRa burn house house) I4.
see(W(BR a burn) house) IThe basic structure in (34) and (35) is interpreted as a semigrammaticalsentence* i see a house and the house is burning.The second line cannot be given a grammatical interpretation, it roughlycorresponds to a hypothetical sentence* I see the house is burning, a houseThe third line is obtained as a result of the application of the com-positor B to the operator RA and after that of BR a to p1, yielding acomplex function BRAP ~.
This complex function has two identicalarguments T 1 and T 1.
If the first argument is pronominalized (weomit the rule here) then the third line can be given a grammatical in-terpretation:I see a house which is burningThe fourth step of the derivation consists in the application of the du-plicator W which eliminates one of the identical terms, thus yieldinga genotype analogue of (12), i.e.I see a burning house.The derived structure (13) is_ obtained, also in four steps, the basicsentence being Mt(P~ T 1) T ~.
See the derivation below:1.
Mt(I51T1)T ~ " "(36) 2.
HMt(Rr(15" T*))T ~3.
HMt(BP.JS~T~)T '4.
HMt(UTIBRf lS)T  ~ .
.
.
.FORMAL METALANGUAGE AND FORMAL THEORY 77In terms of the hybrid language (36) is presented as follows:1. expect (arrive John) I(37) 2.
H expect (R~.
(arrive John)) I3.
H expect (BR T arrive John) I4.
H expect (U John BR r arrive) IRr is the nominalizing operator with the episemion A~ i.e.
R r isthe operator which, being applied to a sentence, maps it into a term.The categorial status of H here is AA~A~\[3A0~A0c~ i.e.
H is the operatorwhich changes a two-place predicate with an embedded sentence anda term into a two-place predicate with two terms as its arguments.The first line of derivation (37) is interpreted asI expect John is arrivingThe second line may correspond to a sentence of the typeI expect hat John is arriving.The third line cannot be given a grammatical interpretation.
Here thecombinator B composes the functions Rr and P producing a compositefunction BRrP roughly corresponding to a verbal noun of the arrivaltype.
To make the interpretation grammatical the combinator U isapplied at the fourth step, turning T into a function and BRrP intoits argument.
The fourth line may be interpreted then as (13) i.e.
thesentence I expect John's arrival.If we now compare the two possible ways of obtaining the genotypeanalogues of (12) and (13) we shall see that applicative grammar pro-vides us with the means of simulating natural anguages both at thesurface level - taxonomic description - and at the deep level.
Theapplication of derivation rules to the sentences of the basic genotypelfinguage simulates the process of transforming the deep semantic rep-resentation of sentences into their surface images.we  shall now attempt o show how the application of differentsets of derivation rules to one and the same basic genotype sentencegenerates a bundle of the derived genotype sentences which may beinterpreted as a semantic field of phrases.
Let us take several sentenceswith the emotive verb please and obtain their genotype analogues.The sentences are:(38) Mary is pleased that she found the dictionary(39) ?
That She found the dictionary pleased Mary78,?SEBASTIAN K. SAUMJAN- P. A. SOBOLEVA{4o)(41)(42)It pleased Mary that she found the dictionaryMary is pleased to find the dictionaryIt pleased Mary to find the dictionaryThe genotype analogues of (38) - (42) are obtained from the basicgenotype sentence(43) Em (_PTx T=)T =as a result of applying the derivation rules with the combinators discussedabove, their choice and order differing in each particular case.The genotype analogue of (38) 7 is obtained as a result of the appli-cation of derivation rule (31).
See (44) (below the derivations aregiven in columns, the first line being a basic sentence i.e.
the sentenceof the zero degree of derivation).
(44) 1.
Em(.PT* T 2) T 22.
HEm(Rr(_PTIT=)T 2)The genotype analogue of (39) is obtained as a result of the appli-cations of rules (31) and (27).
See (45)(45)1.
Em(_PT~T2)T 22.
HEm(Rr(iST*T=))T ~3.
Cv,2(HEm)T~(Rr(!3T'T=))In derivation (45) the combinator of conversion Cv is appliedto the result of derivation (44) which changes the places of the termand the embedded sentence, yielding the derived structure with a nom-inalized embedded sentence as its final argument (interpreted as thesubject) (Cp.
"Flip " or"  psych-movement" in transformational gram-1Tlar).The genotype analogue of (40) is obtained as a result of four rules-(31), (28), (27).
See (46)1.
Em(~T1T~)T ~(46) 2.
HEm(Rr(~T'T~))T ~3.
K(HEm)T.(R ( TIT2))T,4.
Cvla(K(HEm))T"(Rr(-~TI 2)T=)To7 We do not touch upon the problem of pronominalization.
This problem is discussedin the papers S. K. ~AUMJAN (1971) and S. K. St, uM.l,~a,q P. A. SOBOt~VA (1973).FORMAL METALANGUAGE AND FORMAL THEORY 79We shall illustrate derivation (46) in the hybrid language.
See (47):(47)1. please (find dictionary Mary) Mary2.
H please (that (find dictionary Mary)) Mary3.
K(H please) it (that (find dictionary Mary)) Mary4.
CvI3(K(H please))Mary (that (find dictionary Mary)) itThe first line i.e.
the basic sentence, is interpreted as* Mary is pleased Mary (she) found the dictionaryThe second line is interpreted as (38).The third line, obtained after the introduction of the dummy ar-gument it is interpreted as an ungrammatical sentence* Mary is pleased (about) it that she found the dictionary'The fourth line, in which the combinator Cv13 changes the placesof the first and the third arguments gives the analogues of (40) (Cp" extraposition " and "flip ").The genotype analogue of (41) is obtained as a result of two rules -(21) and (25).
See (48)(48)1.
Em(PTxT~)T 22.
BEm(PT1)T2T ~3.
W ((BErn) (~V) )T  2Derivation (48) is illustrated in the hybrid language.
See (49):(49)1. please (find dictionary Mary)Mary2.
B please (find dictionary) Mary Mary3.
W((B please) (find dictionary) MaryIn the second line the combinator B composes the predicates Era-please and ~Tl-find dictionary.
The complex predicate BErn (~T ~) isinterpreted as an infinitive complex is pleased to find the dictionary (Cp.
"predicate raising ").
In the third line the combinator W deletes theidentical terms T~ Mary, yielding (41).The analogue of (42) is obtained in five steps: to derivation (48)two more lines are added (rules (28) and (27)).
See (50):80 SEBASTIAN K. SAUMJAN- P. A. SOBOLEVA(50) 4.
K(W((BEm) (.~T')))ToT25.
Cv,3(K(W((B~m) (~rl))))r, ToThe set of derivations from the basic sentence (43) may be shownin the tree below.
See (51):(51)EmST?
H BCvi~ (38)( 3 9 ) ~(*)~CIJl8(4o)(*)W(41)K(*)CI,123(42)At the root of the tree we have a basic genotype sentence.
Thelines indicate the combinators which are applied to the basic or deriv-ed sentences in our derivations.
The numbers (38) - (42) refer to thesentences which interpret the derived genotype sentences, (*) denotesthe absence of" a grammatical interpretation i English.
Similar treesof derivation may be drawn for other basic sentences of the genotypelanguage.Examples of such trees for the basic sentences MdS, Asg, MtST,VI~T, CaTI~T ~ and CmTI~T 2may be found in the paper of S. K.~AUMJAN and P. A. SOBOrEVA (1973).The basic genotype sentence atthe root of the tree may be understoodas a generalized semantic representation, which we call a standard mac-rosituation.
The derived genotype sentences at the other nodes aresemantic representations called derived macrosituati0ns.
Interpreta-tions (38) - (42) are concrete semantic representations called micro-situations.The" tree in (51) may be regarded as a possible scheme of derivationFORMAL METAI, ANGUAGE AND FORMAL THEORY 81of the emotive semantic field in English mapped into the genotypelanguage.The purpose of (34) - (49) was to show that the combinators maybe used to form a unified system of derivations necessary for the construc-tion of the derived genotype language.
In (38) - (49) the genotypesentences werederived from one and the same basic genotype sentence,differing from each other only in the choice, number and order Of ap-plication of the combinators.
Hence, the possibility of simulating thehierarchical organisation of grammatical synonymy as well as the proc-ess of embodying thought in linguistic forms.Let us now turn to the definition of formal theories of naturallanguages.The formal theory of natural anguages i  a formal system whichdistinguishes between the following components:1.
The basic genotype language is defined by the schemes ofsentences erving as semantic representations.
Each semantic represen-tation corresponds to a definite situation.
Semantic representations areformed from elementary semions.
Elementary semions are interpretedas elementary meaning units.
Only two types of elementary semionsare allowed - elementary predicates and elementary terms - and.twotypes of sentences: 1) sentences with one-, two- and three-place le-mentary predicates and an embedded sentence as one of their argu-ments, 2) sentences which consist of sentences connected by meansof a conjunctor.2.
The rules of derivation of the derived genotype language sen-tences from the sentences of the basic genotype language.
The sentencesof the basic genotype language are regarded as the sentences of thezero degree of derivation, hence the basic genotype language is regard-ed as part of the derived genotype language which is a sum of thezero degree of derivation sentences.
E~)ery rule of derivation of thederived genotype language sentences i a substitution of some expres-sion containing combinators applied to the elementarypredicates insteadof some expression of the basic genotype language.
The rules of deri-vation of the derived genotype language may be called combinatoryrules because they consist in the substitution of the expressions withthe various types of combinators applied to elementary predicates inplace of the basic genotype language xpressions.3.
The rules of derivation of phenotype language sentences fromsentences of the derived genotype language.
These rules may be calledphenotype rules.
Every phenotype rule is a substitution of: a) a certain82 V SEBASTIAN K. SAUMJAN-P.  A. SOBOLEVAexpression comprising phenotype semions into a certain expression ofthe derived genotype language.
Or: b) into a certain phrase obtainedaccording to (a).
The phenotype rules meet the requirement accordingto which any application of the phenotype rule must not break theapplicative structure of the sentence.
Sentences obtained as a result ofthe application of the phenotype rules are called phenotype sentences.4.
The rules of linear transformations.In the genotype language xpressions have a standard linear structure:an operator precedes its operand.
This standard structure isretained bythe phenotype sentences.
The aim of linear transformations is to con-vert the standard structure into a linear structure characteristic of thesentences of the corresponding natural anguage.The rules of linear transformations are based on the use of two com-binators of permutations.
The use of the permutation combinators iinteresting from the typological point of view, since the standard linearstructure may be regarded as a typological standard, the derivationfrom which may be accounted for by different sets of permutationcombinators.5.
Morpho - phonological rules.Morpho - phonological rules consist in the substitution of eitherphonological strings instead of phenotype expressions, or of some pho-nological strings instead of other phonological strings.In accordance with the components of the formal theory of naturallanguages considered above the scheme of deduction in this theorylooks as follows:G1 .
.
.
.
, G,F1, ..., FmL1, ..., Lp01 .
.
.
.
.
OqG1 is a sentence of the basic genotype language.
G, is a sentence of thederived genotype language.
In case n = 1, G~ is a sentence of the zerodegree of derivation.
F1 is the initial sentence of the phenotype compo-nent.
F,~ is the final sentence of the phenotype component.
L1 is asentence obtained at the first step of the application of the linear transfor-mational rules.
Lp is a sentence obtained at the final step of the lineartransformation rules.O1 a morpho-phonological representation f the sentence obtainedat the first step and Oq - at the last step of the application of the morpho-phonological rules.The formal theory of natural anguages distinguishes between theconcept " macrosituation " and the concept " microsituation ".
A mac-FORMAL METALANGUAGE AND FORMAL THEORY 83ros~tuation is an abstract situation at the level of generalized semanticrepresentation.
The microsituations pertaining to the given macro-situations are its various interpretations at the level of concrete semanticrepresentations.
An example of an " emotive" macrosituation: "Ananimate passive subject (patient) experiences an emotion in connectionwith the action it performed ".
This macrosituation may be realizedin the following microsituations: Mary is pleased that she found the dic-tionary, John is upset that he lost the pen, Jane is confused that she upset thecup etc.
An example of a causative macrosituation: " An animate activesubject (agent) causes an animate object (patient) to perform an action "This macrosituation may be realized in the following micrositua-tions: The officer ordered the men to open fire, The mother persuaded herson to take a walk, The teacher makes the pupils work etc.In connection with the distinction between macro and micrositua-tions we distinguish between two levels of derivation in the formaltheory of natural anguages: derivations at the level of macrosituationsand derivations at the level of microsituations.
As to the formal theoryof natural anguages it must provide for the rules of derivation at thelevel of macrosituations.
The level of microsituation is an interpretativelevel which is a function of a special component which may be calledthe dictionary of concrete lexemes.
The dictionary of concrete lexemesconsists of dictionary entries corresponding to separate concrete l xemes.Every dictionary entry must contain the necessary grammaticalinformation providing for its inclusion as a concrete semion interpret-ant of the macrosituation i a derivation set.In conclusion we shall consider the concept "semantic fields ".
Inconnection with the semantic field we shall split the concept "macro-situation" into the concept "standard macrosituation " and "derivedmacrosituation ".
The standard macrosituation is a semantic repre-sentation corresp ondin g to the sentences of the basic g eno typ elan g ua g.eFor example Em(iST 1 T ~) T ~ which roughly corresponds to the "emo-tive situation" cited above or CaT 1 (P T~ T ~) T 8 which is very closeto the above causative situation.
However, the latter can be given amore exact interpretation: "an animate subject (ager~t) brings pressureto bear on an animate object (patient) and the latter performs anaction"The derived macrosituation is a semantic representation correspond-ing to the sentences of the derived genotype language.
For exampleHEm (Rr( i  5 T 1 T~) ) T 2 which exactly corresponds to the above "emo-tive" situation of L Ca(iST2)T ~ T s which exactly corresponds to the84 SEBASTIAN K. ~AUMJAN- P. A. SOBOLEVA"causative" situation in its previous formulation, i.e.
"an animateactive subject causes an animate passive object o perform an action"In the formal theory of natural anguages considered above the se-mantic field is a bundle of derivations simulating aset of derived mac-rosituations from a basic genotype language sentence which simu-lates a standard macrosituation.
See (51).
The standard and the derivedmacrosituations are in relations of meaning inclusion.In  accordance with the destination between macro- and microsit-uations we distinguish between the semantic fields at the level ofmacrosituations and the semantic fields at the level of microsituations:macrosemantic f elds and microsemantic fields.
Each macrosemanticfield corresponds to a finite set of microsemantic f elds which are itsinterpretations.On the basis of what has been considered above it is possible todraw the following general conclusions pertaining to any generativegrammar.The term" generative grammar" must be understood in two senses:as the grammar of a formal metalanguage used by the formal theoryof natural anguages and as the formal theory of natural anguagesproper.A formal theory of natural anguages must be based on the two-level principle which distinguishes between the two levels of abstraction:the phenotype and genotype levels.
The genotype level is not givenin immediate observation but is postulated as a hypothetical objectwhich is a theoretical construct.It is necessary to distinguish between the two levels of formal der-ivation: the level of macrosituations and the level of microsituations.Grammar as a formal theory of natural anguages has to do with mac-rosituations.
As to the level of microsituations it has to do with aspecial dictionary which is compiled for the needs of the generativegrammar.REFERENCESH.
B. CURRY, Combinatory logic, vol.
1,Amsterdam, 1958.H.
B. CURRY, Foundations ofmathematicallogic, New York, 1963.S.
K. ~AUMJAN, Genotipi~eskij jasyk iformalnaja semantika, in , Problemystructurnoj linguistiki ~, 1971.S.
K. ~AUMJAN, P. A. SOBOtEVa, Kom-plementacija v aptflicativno j grammatike,in ~ Problemy structurnoj linguistiki ~,1973.
