GERD LAU -HANS DIETER LUTZAUTOMATIC  ANALYSIS OF THE GERMAN NOUN GkOUPAND SOME PROBLEMSO.
Introduction.Since 1971 the research group "Maschinelle Syntaxanalyse" (MasA)has been working as a part of the project "Linguistische Datenverar-beittmg" (r~DV) at the "Institut fiJr deutsche Sprache ", supported bythe "Bundesminister f'tir Forschung und Tectmologie" of the FederalRepublic of Germany.The task of the MasA is to elaborate a system for analysing simplesentences of present-day-German. "
Simple sentences ", in this case,means any type of sentence with only one finite verb in it.1.
The scope of the analysis.The team works on the basis of a so-called verb grammar.
In thistype of grammar the verb represents the nucleus of a sentence, thusbeing opposed to the subject-predicate-grammar.
Proposals for theelaboration of such a grammar have been presented by Helbig-Schenkel, 1Heringer 2 and Engel sThis type of grammar is based on a verb lexicon, which describesall the obligatory and facultative objects that depend on the verb,e.g.treffen with two obligatory objects inIch treffe ihn morgen1 G. HELBIG, Der BegriO" der Valenz als Mittel der strukturellen Sprachbeschreibung ddes Fremdsprachenunterrichts, n ~ Deutsch als Fremdsprache ~>, I (1965), pp.
10-23.H.
J.
~gER,  Theorie der deutschen Syntax, Miinchen 1970.8 U. ENos, Bemerkungen zur Dependenzgrammatik, in ~Neue Grammatiktheorienund ihre Anwendung auf das heutige Deutsch.
Sprache der Gegenwart~, XX (1971),pp.
111-155.250 GERD LAU- HANS DIETER LUTZtreffen with one obligatory object and one facultative object inEr trifft (den Ball)treffen auf with two obligatory objects inDie Mannschaft traf auf einen schwachen Gegner.After having detected the number of both the obligatory and fac-ultative objects and specified these objects according to their syntacticalfunctions, one can group the verbs into classes, e.g.
the class of all theverbs with one obligatory object (this class contains for example theverb laufen), the class of all the verbs with two obligatory objects(containing for example treffen), the class of all the verbs with threeobligatory objects (containing for example anbieten), the class of allthe verbs with one obligatory and one facultative object (containingfor example treffen), and so on.
Each of these classes represents a o-called"Satzbauplan " (SBP).
"The systematic levels of the grammar area) the word class-level (WK-level)b) the group-level (noun group (NG), verbal group (VG))c) the complex-level (noun complex (NK), verb complex (VX))d) the object-level (nominative object (0o), genitive object(o . )
.
.
.
.
).The following graph can be regarded as an illustration of thesefour systematic levels:Der a\[te StaatsmannDE T ~ N O MNGINKItrf  selnen Nachf, olger im AmtVERB DET4 NOM PRAEP NOM WK-levelI VNG j G  group-levelVK NK complex-levelI Iobject-level O~ Vol ~0~4 U. EN~L, Die deutschen Satzbauplline, in  Wirkendes Wort ~, XX (1970), pp.
361-392.6 For the explanation f the word classes, especially DET2B, ADJ, NOM, DET4,and PRAEP see section 2; O~ stands for "nominative object ", O~ for "accusativeAUTOMATIC ANALYSIS OF THE GERMAN NOUN GROUP 251The way of finding the word class of a given word form, i.e.
themorpho-syntactical description of a word form, is delineated in thecontribution of Werner Brecht.
e2.
Description of NG-relevant word classes.The following word classes are relevant for the constitution of aNG:a) preposition (postposition) PRAEP, e.g.
vorb) determinantia DET, e.g.
allenc) adverbs ADV, e.g.
sehrd) non-inflected adjectives ADJU, e.g.
gute) inflected adjectives ADJ, e.g.
sichtbarenf) nouns NOM, e.g.
Objekteng) pronouns PRON, e.g.
uns.The word classes are defined by the following morphologicaland/or syntactical properties:Prepositions are collected in a catalogue and specified by their posi-tion (in front of, behind, in front of or behind, in front of and behindthe nucleus ofa NG), by their government (accusative, genetive, dative)and by the sort of object that is introduced by the preposition (pre-positional object, situative object, directional object).Adverbs are listed, and the list only includes words that meet thefollowing conditions: non-inflexional; no predicative use; certainregularities of position.Non-inflected adjectives are not listed; they are described by analgorithm, which is to find out the degree of comparison.Inflected adjectives are not listed, either.
They, too, are describedobject "; Vot stands for the verb class with the" Satzbauplan" 01 (obligatory nominativeobject plus obligatory accusative object).
Note: The example is ambiguous, and onlyone interpretation is given.
The example is ambiguous because of the noun group imAmt.
This noun group may be an attribute to the noun group seinen Nachfolger.
It mayalso be a noun group without any relation to seinen Nachfolger, and therefore it must beinterpreted as a separate noun complex, which does not depend on tre~n as a represen-tation of the verb class V m. In this case the sequence im Amt is regarded as a so-called"Angabe" (cf.
U. ENO)~L, Linguistische Studieu I Regeln zur " Satzgliedfolge ".
Zur Stel-lung der Elemente im einfaehen Verbalsatz, in <~ Sprache der Gegenwart ~, XIX (1972),pp.
17-75, esp.
24ff).6 In the first Volume of this book, pp.
9-21.252 GERD LAU- HANS DIETER LUTZby an algorithm with respect o case, number, gender, degree of com-parison and kind of inflexion (strong, weak).Nouns are not listed in the present state of our work.
There existsan algorithm that provides the description of those words accordingto case, number, and gender, vIn general, the definition of the several word classes i  the commonone, as found in the traditional grammars.
But there are two excep-tions: the so-called determinantia and the pronouns.The so-called eterminantia are listed in a catalogue; they are groupedwith respect to the possible arrangements of several determinantiawithin a NG, e.g.vor allen diesen meinen sch~snen Biichern.
sThe results of having found out certain regularities are both a num-ber of distinct subclasses ofdeterminantia and the formulation of context-sensitive rules for analysing arrangements of determinantia.First, there are 10 subclasses, namelyDET1ADET IBDET1CDET2ADET2BDET2CDET2Dcontainingcontainingconta in ingcontainingcontainingcontainingcontainingD E T3 containingD E T4 containingDET5 containingall, all-;manch, solch, welch;irgend, irgendwelch ;dies-, jen-;d-, d-jenig;ein- ;kein-, welch-, irgendein-, irgendwekh-, ebend-,ebend-selb-, ebendies-, d-selb;jed-, jeglich-, jedwed;mein-, dein-, sein-, uns(e)r-, eu(e)r-, ihr-;einig-, etlich-, manch-, mehrer-, ein paar.
?Secondly, there are 5 rules for describing the regularities of deter-minantia arrangements within a biG having a noun as nucleus.
For7 In future it will be possible to incorporate a more effective algorithm which re-verts to an almost complete lexicon of German nouns.
This lexicon has been placed atour disposal by the research group for "Automatische Lemmatisierung" at the Univer-sity of Saarbriicken, W-Germany.s The subclassification f the determinantia is a modification of the one given inENGZL, Regetn zur Worstellung, in <~ Forschungsberichte desInstituts fiir deutsche Sprache,Mannheim ~, V (1969), pp.
9-148, esp.
102ff.0 The catalogue contains all word forms of the listed stems (indicated by " -  ").AUTOMATIC ANALYSIS OF THE GERMAN NOUN GROUP 253the demonstration of these rules we will use a simplified NG-structurewith an abbreviated notation.R I :  (DET1A) (DET2A) (DET4) (ADJ) NOM ~ NGR2: (DETIA) (DET2B) (ADJ) NOM ~ NGR3: (DET1B) (DET2C) (ADJ) NOM ~ NGR4: (DET1C)/(DET2D)/(DET5) (ADJ) NOM ~ NGR5: (DET2C) (DET3) (ADJ) NOM ~ NG.
TMIt is important hat there can be no iteration of  a subclass of  de-terminantia.The rules mentioned above can be illustrated by the diagram onthe next pageThe pronouns are considered as pro-forms o fa  NG with a nominalnucleus.
A part of  the pronouns can be grouped in several subclassesaccording to three significant features: possibility of using a prepositionin front of  the pronoun, possibility of putting determinantia n frontof  the pronoun, possibility of  using a genitive or prepositional ttributein the post-nuclear field.There are 9 subclasses, namelyPRON1 containing man;PRON2 containing du, er, es, ich, ihr, sie, wir;PRON3 containing dein(er), dick, dir, einander, euch, euer, ihr(er),ibm, ihn(en), mein(er), reich, mir, sein(er),sick, sie, uns(er);PRON4 containing all-, ebend-, ebend-selb, ebendies-, einig-, einpaar, etlich-, etwas, irgendein-, irgendetwas,irgendw-, irgendwelch-, jedermann-, jemand-,kein-, manck-, mekrer-, niemand-, nichts, w-,welch-;PRON5A containing d-, d-selb-, d-jenig-, dies-, jen-;PRONSB containing ein-;PRO NSC containing jed-, jedwed-, jeglick- ;PRONSD containing dein-, eu(e)r-, ihr-, mein-, sein-, uns(e)r-;PRON6 containing selber, selbst.10 The brackets stand for " facultative "; the slash stands for "exclusive or ".
A fulldescription of the structure of a noun group with a nominal nucleus will be given insection 5.254 GERD LAU-  HANS DIETER LUTZt~ t~7~~47.Lqu~?
?~tAUTOMATIC ANALYSIS OF THE GERMAN NOUN GROUP 255But, there is another group of pronouns without the characteristicsmentioned above, i.e.
without pre-nuclear field, without a prepositionin front of  them, without post-nuclear field.
These pronouns do notdiffer at the NG- or NK-leveL But they differ at the O-level, whenyou try to detect if such a pronoun is a substitute for an object (dependingon the verb) or a substitute for a so-called "Angabe " (which does notdepend on a verb), n Furthermore, pronouns that can be substitutesfor an object, can be differentiated according to the kind of these objects.So, there are six more subclasses, namelyPRON7A containingPRON7B containingPRON7C containingPRON7D containingPRON7E containingPR ON8 containingwobei, wofiir, womit, wonach, woraus, worum,wovon;wo, wohinter, woneben;woher, woherauf, woheraus, woherein, woher-iiber, wohin, wohinaus, wohlnein, wohini~ber;woran, worauf, worin, woriiber, worunter;wogegen ;inwiefern, inwieweit, warm, warum, weshalb,weswegen, wie, wieso, wodurch.Pronouns of PRON7A are substitutes for prepositional objects (04) ;pronouns of PRON7B are substitutes for situative objects (05) ; pronounsof PRON7C are substitutes for directional objects (06); pronouns ofPRON7D are substitutes for O4 or O5; pronouns of PRON7E aresubstitutes for O4 or O8; pronouns of PRON8 are substitutes for so-called "Angaben "The final division of pronouns in 15 subclasses makes it possibleto set up rules for detecting and describing NGs with a pronominalnucleus.
For the demonstration of these rules we will use a simplifiedand abbreviated notation.R6: PRON1 / PRON2 ~ NCoR7: PRON6 ~ NG~ ~ NG~,,.R8: (PRAEP) (PRON3 \[ PRON4}-~ NG~R9: (PRAEP) {{(DET1A) PRON5A} / {(DET1B) PRON5B}/ {(DET1C) PRONSC} / {(DETIA) (DET2A/DET2B) PRON5D}} ~ NG~n The reason for these pronouns not being included in PRON1 (which meets thesame conditions atthe first glance) is that man of PRON1 covers always the positionof a nominative object (0o), in contrast to the pronouns of PRONTA to PRON8.256 GERD LAU-  HANS DIETER LUTZR10: PRON7A-+ ... 04Rl1: PRON7B-+ ... OsR12: PRON7C-,'-... O0R13: PRON7D-~ ... O4 / OsR14: PRON7E-+ ... 04 / OoR15:PRON8 -+ ... A~.
1~This collection of  rules shows the difference between PRON1 ...PRON6 and PRON7A ... PRON8.
A comparison with the rules R1to R5 illustrates that there are less possibilities to combine determinantiain front of the nucleus of  a pronominal NG.
Other differences willbe discussed in section 3.3.
Two types of NGs.It is no new observation that there are at least two different ypesof  NGs in German.The ftrst type covers all NGs having a noun as nucleus of  the NG,e.g.
die Mitbestimmung,the second type covers all NGs with a pronoun as nucleus of theNG, e.g.
sie, die unsere, woran.The structure of  the NG depends on what kind of  nucleus appears.In a b ig  with a plonominal nucleus, there can be no adverbs, nonon-inflected adjectives, and no adjective - in opposition to a NGwith a noun as a nucleus.In a pronominal NG there are less possibilities of  arranging deter-minantia than in a nominal NG (see rules R1-R15).
The reason isquite evident: by suppressing the noun (nucleus) in a nominal NG,the last determinans turns into a pronoun, i.e.
it represents he nucleusin a pronominal NG.
Compare the following two examples:alle diese Bircher vs. alle dieseDET1A DET2A NOM DET1A PRON5At tnucleus nucleus1~ The " ? "
indicates that the case of the NG is not predictable in general.
"A"is an abbreviation f" Angabe ".
The braces are to denote larger units belonging toeachother.
For the explanation f other signs ee footnote 10.AUTOMATIC ANALYSIS OF THE GERMAN NOUN GROUP 257There is another difference beween a nominal NG and a pronominalone: in nominal NGs one can find other NGs embedded:die Ansprachen haltenclen Parlamentarier, or (rather complex)die nach Marx alle menschlichen Handlungen wesentlichund zu aller Zeit zum Naehteil der Mehrheit der BevSlkerung bestim-menden Kapitatgesetze.In both cases the first die belongs to the last word, to Parlamentarierand Kapitalgesetze ; die Parlamentarier and die Kapitalgesetze form thehierarchically highest NG.
If you transform the determinans of thishighest NG into a pronoun such as sie, there is no possibility of embed-ding other NGs in this pronominal NG.
This explains the differencebetween a nominal NG and a pronominal one, too.4.
Criteria for the analysis.The different elements of a German NG tmderlie different kinds ofsyntagmatic relations.
The number of these relations varies correspond-ing to the two types of NGs.Four kinds of relations are relevant for the nominal NG:congruity between adjectives and nouns (concerning case, num-ber, and gender)between determinantia and nouns (concerning case,number, and gender)between prepositions and nouns (concerning the caseof a noun and the possible government of apreposition)between determinantia and adjectives (concerning case,number, and gender);inflectional relation between determinantia and adjectives (con-cerning the inflexion of a determinans andthe inflexion of a following adjective;degree of comparison of the adjective of the nominal NG (pro-viding the connection with further parts ofthe syntactical analysis);compatibility of subclasses of determinantia ccording to therules R1 to R5; the rule of compatibility ofnominal NG has the form:17258 GERD LAU - HANS DIETER LUTZ((det = 1) =~ ((M(WK, I, n-i) = DET1A v (M(WK, I, n-i -t- 1) == DET2A ,i DET2B v DET4)) v,i ((M(WK, I, n - i )=DET2A^ (M(WK, I, n - i+ 1)==DETa) ) )vv ((M(WK, I ,  n-i) = DET1B  ^  (M(WK, I, n-i-{- 1) ==DET2C) ) )vv ((M(WK, I, n - i )=DET2C^ (M(WK, I, n - i+ 1)=v ((det = 2) ~ (M(WK, I, n-i) = DET1A  ^  (M(WK, I, n-i -t- 1) == DET2A  ^  (M(WK, I, n-i + 2) = DET4))).
~8Only two kinds of relations are relevant for the pronominal NG:congruity between determinantia and pronouns (concerning case,number, and gender)between prepositions and pronouns (concerning thecase of a pronoun and the possible govern-ment of a preposition);compatibility of subclasses of determinantia according to therules R6 to R9; the rule of compatibility ofa pronominal NG has the form:((det = 1) =~ ((M(WK, I, n-i) = DET1A) ^  (M(WK, I, n-i + 1) == DET2A v DET2B))).Summing up, there are only two kinds of relations of the pro-nominal NG, but four kinds of relations of the nominal NG; the setof the various congruity relations noticeable at the nominal NG differsfrom the one noticeable at the pronominal NG; and the compatibility13 This notation is a conglomerate of matrix-notation, logical signs, and of pro-grammer's conventions.
It can be read: " I f  the value of the counter "det"  equals 1, thenthe value of the place " WK" of the matr ix"  M"  at the level " I "  at the posit ion" n- i "must have been " DET1A " and the value of the place " WK" of the matrix "M"  atthe level " I "  at the posit ion" n - -  + 1 " must have been DET2A or DET2B or DET4,or the villue of... " and so on.M is a three-dlmensional matrix which gets built up during the morphological na-lysis of an input sentence, and which contains all computed information of all the wordsof this sentence. "
I "  stands for " interpretat ion" and is a variable, running from 1 to50.
At the moment, " WK" stands for "word  class" with 40 different specifications."
n"  indicates the position of the noun in a given sentence, and"  i "  is a position counter;so, if n - 3 and i = 1, then n - -  i - 2, i.e.
the position in question is the next to thenoun on the left side.AUTOMATIC ANALYSIS OF THE GERMAN NOUN GROUP 259rule for the nominal NG si much more complex than that for the pro-nominal NG.5.
An algorithm as representation f a hyperrule.The preceding outlines displayed the complexity of contextualrestrictions concerning German noun groups.
It sounds extremelyclmnsy to talk about hese restrictions in a natural language.
We there-fore developed a formal notation for the communication betweenlinguists and programmers ofour team.
It consists of a matrix-notation,sentential connectives, functions and flow chart conventions.
The com-patibility rules were a small cut-out.
For more details ee our forthcomingpublication.
TMIn the following, we will discuss the nominal NG only, becauseits structure and its difficulties are more interesting than the structureof the pronominal NG.At the present state of our algorithm the following constructionshave been excluded: coordination of adjectives, fusion of prepositionsand certain determinantia (i.e.
am being an + dem), postponed pre-positions, prepositions like um ... willen, and embedded participle con-structions.The reason for excluding embedded participle constructions is that,in our opinion, complex constructions like these can be analyzed afterthe successful interpretation of simple sentences only.
The other re-strictions mentioned above are not so important, i.e.
the solution ofthese problems are, more or less, not so difficult, and, in fact, one ofour collegues has made a proposal for the treatment of all kinds ofprepositions.At the moment, we will consider the following hyperrule and wewill interprete it as a statement about the word order only:(1) (PRAEP) (DET) (DET) (DET) (((ADV*) ADJU*)ADJ)* NOM ~ NG.
is14 Aa~ITSCROPPE MASA, Zur maschinellen Syntaxanalyse L Morphosyntaktische Vor-aussetzungen flit eine maschindle Sprachanatyse d s Deutschen, i n ,  Forschungsberichte d sInstituts fLir deutsche Sprache, Mannheim ~), XVIII, 1, XVIII, 2, 1974.15 The asterisk indicates the possibility of iterating.
For the explanation of the othersigns see footnote 10.260 GERD LAU-  HANS DIETER LUTZThe program that is intended to analyze nominal NGs ftrst looks fora NOM, proceeding from the left to the right.
After having founda NOM, the whole algorithm will be called up in order to search anADJ to the left of the NOM.
ADV* and ADJU* can appear only incase an ADJ has been found.
Otherwise the algorithm turns to DET,which tests the word order and compatibility of the DETs if thereexists a DET.
There are no more than three DETs admitted.
PRAEPis the word class which stands at the extreme left in German NGs(according to our restrictions); it is the last one to be looked for.In many cases the output of this analysis depends on homography.An example may prove this as well as the fact that there remain lotsof ambiguities at this level of analysis:(2) nahe so sehr griindlich vergifteten WdldernI PRAEP ADV ADV ADJU ADJ NOM I description IVERB t ADV ADV ADJU ADJ NOM t description 2VERB ADVIADV ADJU ADJ NOM I description 3VERB ADV ADV IADJU ADJ NOM I description 4VERB ADV ADV ADJU I ADJ NOM I description 5VERB ADV ADV ADJU VERB I NOMI description 6(3) vor so sehr griindlich vergifteten WiildernI PRAEP ADV ADV ADJU ADJ NOM t description 1If PRAEP is a homograph, ADV* and ADJU* may or may notbe constituents of the nominal NG (see (2)).
If PRAEP is no homo-graph and if'there is no DET, the whole string must be a NG (see (3)).As homographs may exist, the algorithm is constructed in the fol-lowing way: in a first step the longest nominal NG possible is builtup, and in a second step this nominal NG is minimized in all possibleinterpretations (in the case of (2) there are five interpretations whichcover shorter nominal NGs than the first one).AUTOMATIC ANALYSIS OF THE GERMAN NOUN GROUP 2616.
Problems concerning the identification of a "nominal complex" (con-sisting of a NG or of a number of NGs).A nominal complex NK is a noun group or a string of  noun groupswhich are part of  a sentence.
Yet, this gives no information aboutthe role the NK plays in the sentence: a NK can be either an objectwhich depends on the finite verb, or an "Angabe ".
NKs in the nom-inative case can serve as objects only, i.e.
as subjects of  sentences.The following schedule displays that any NK with an O-value between1 and 6 can be either an object or an "Angabe ":O Object "Angabe "1 Er wiegt zwe i  K i lo  Er ldufi zwe i  Meter2 Ergedenkt des  Morgens  Er ldufi des  Morgens3 Er gibt m i r Wein Er stelgt m i r auf den' Fu/3Er trdgt m i r den Koffer4 Er rechnet mi t  dem Vor -  Er verdient mi t  dem Vor -t rag des Bruders t r ag des Bruders5 Erwohnt im ers ten  Stock  Erschldft im ers ten  Stock6 Er geht i n s K i n o hinein Er schldfi i n d e n T a g hineinThus we cannot derive any knowledge about a NK's function fromits grammatical description only.
But semantical criteria can providesome solutions at this level of  analysis:(4) Er rechnet mit dem Vortrag seines Bruders.
(4) contains the verb rechnen mit + 1 with the " Satzbauplan" SBP134.
But (4) contains also the verb rechnen with SBP O.
As the semanticfeatures of  Vortrag tell us that Vortrag is no means of calculating, theSBP ~ will be excluded as an incorrect derivation.262 GERD LAU-  HANS DIETER LUTZ(5) Er rechnet mit der Rechenmaschine.
(5) contains the same verbs as (4).
As Rechenmaschine is a means ofcalculating, the NK is also an "Angabe ".
Therefore both SBP O andSBP 04 are possible analyses.But we do not yet follow semantics.
We try to analyze with syn-tactic means as long as possible.If we combine two NGs in order to build a NK, the right NGserves as an attribute:der Vertrag seines BrudersI - I  I -ING b igI INKAn attribute is a big with one of  the following O-values:O = 2 .... genitive phrase: der Vortrag s e i n e s B r u d e r s0=4 .... prepositional phrase: der Mann mi t  dem KropfO = 5 .... situative phrase: der Baum i m G a r t e nO = 6 .... directional phrase: die Fahrt i n d i e S t a d tThe rules RR1 and RR2 define an algorithm which is to buildNKs of NG-combinations.
Further on, RR3 and RR5 change a NKinto an object, and RR4 an NK into an " Angabe"L~ ... leftmost position o f  a NG~ or a NKjRi ... rightmost position o f  a NG~ or a NK iOi ... value of  the "object class" of  a NG~ or NK;.RR1:RR2:NG (L,, R,, O,)=NG (L,, R,, O,)+on condition that 1)2)3)N~ (L,, R,, 03N~ (L~, R~, %) = NK~ (L,, G 0,)R,+I=Lj;0~.= either 2 or 4 or 5 or 6;NG~ does not contain a preposition be-hind the noun.RR3 : NKj (L~, R~, O j )= 0 i (Lj, Rj, Oj) (i.e.
a derivation ofon condition that Oj 4: O. an object.
)AUTOMATIC ANALYSIS OF THE GERMAN NOUN GROUP 263RR4:RR5 :N~ (ti, Ri, o j ) :  Aj (L~., ~., 0i)on condition that O~ 4: ~.N~.
(L;, R;, 0 ) :  Oj (Lj, R~, 0)(i.e.
a derivation ofan "Angabe ".)(i.e.
the derivation ofthe subject.
)Consider an example of a possible application of RR1-RR5 inorder to combine three NGs and thus make a single NK:die Garage vor dem Haus des Freundeslye s, s) + NK (~, 7, 2)RR21NC (1, 2, o) + NK (3, 7, 2)NK (1, 7, O)IRR5Io (1, 7, o)Exceptional case I: Prepositions in front of, and behind, a NG orNK.I(6) um des Freundes willen(7) um des Freundes in Paris willenEvidently (7) is no string of  two NGs.
Therefore, RR1 and RR2 arenot applicable to this type of NK, and we must construct a specialalgorithm for the analysis of it.Exceptional caseH: Preposition behind a NG or a NK.In German there are some prepositions which can appear in frontof, or behind, a NG, for instance nach, wegen ... .Er zittert wegen des Kampfes or Er zittert des Kampfes wegen.When we consider (8), (9) and (10) we see that a postposition in aNG at the same time is a postposition of a NK.264 GERD LAU-  HANS DIET?R LUTZ(8)(9)(lO)des Kampfes wegendes Kampfes in der Sporthalle wegendes Kampfes in der Sporthalle in Bonn wegenWe need a special algorithm for the analysis of NKs of the type (8)-(10).
It must provide, for instance, the following analyses of (11):(11) Er entsinnt sich des Beifalls wegen des Gesanges.I -  II.
Ianalysis a)... NG(4,5,2) NG (6, 8, 4)I I I. Ianalysis b) ... NC  (4, 6, 4) NG (7, 8, 2)It is possible to unite both NGs of a) into one NK by application ofRR1 and RR2.
But in b) this is impossible; condition 3. of RR2 is notmet.
Therefore both NGs in b) must be changed into separate NKsby RR1.Another quite complicated example:(12)analysis a) ...Er entledigt sich des Freundes des Boxens wegen des MessersI I I I I.
.ING(4,5,2) NG(6,7,2) NG (8, 10, 4)I .11 INK (6, ~o, 2)1 INK (4, 10, 2)(12) Er entledigt sich des Freundes des Boxens wegen des MessersI I I II.
-ING(4,5,2)  NG (6, 8, 4) NG(9,10,2)I II -Ianalysis b) ... NK (4, 8, 2) NK (9, 10, 2)RR1-RR5 and the special algorithms for exceptional case I andII are the theoretical basis to find all possible combinations of NGsand to derive objects and "Angaben " from NKs.Next we check the syntax for useful hints so as to achieve a correctanalysis of NKs of a given sentence, and hints so as to decide, whichNKs are objects and which are "Angaben "AUTOMATIC  ANALYSIS OF THE GF.RMAN NOUN GROUP 265In (13) and (14) we find NGs of the same structure.
But the correctanalysis of (13) differs completely from that of (14).
(13) well der Mann mit der Verletzung der Elle im linken Arm schliiftI I I I I  .
.
.
.
.
II.NK (2, 11, O)IO (2, 11, O)(14) well der Mann mit der Frau des Morgens im alten Carl tanztI II II I I .NK (2, 3, O)NK (4, 6, 4) NK (7, 8, 2) NK (9, 11, 5)I I I IO(2 ,3 ,~)  A(4,6,4)  A (7, 8, 2) A (9, 11, 5)As long as we do not find any hints, the rules must be applied in asystematic order, so as to have all possible analyses as a result.
A semanticcomponent then can choose the subset of reasonable analyses out ofthe whole set.
Thus the analysis of (13) would have to be an analysisof (14), and vice versa.It would need too much space to print the set of theoretically poss-ible analyses of (15) here.
The reader easily sees, in how many differentways RR1-RR5 can be applied.
The whole set of possible analyses isgreater than 100!
We just show a single analysis.
We note the rulebeing applied in the leftmost column.
Now we try to use the " Satz-bauplan" as a means of improving the exhaustive analysis-procedure.In (15) wartete is the single finite verb.
It has the SBP f~ 4 aufq- 1.That means, it takes both an object in the nominative case and a pre-positional object.
Having found a certain SBP, our algorithm runs asfollows:1.
Look for a NG ( ,  , O) and make it an object.
(Accordingto RR1, RR5.)2.
Look for a NG ( , , 4) which contains the preposition auf,and make it an object.
(According to RR1, RR3.)3.
Apply RR1, RR2 and RR4 to the NGs which are not objects.4.
Try to analyze one of the NGs which are not objects as anattribute of an object.
If this is possible, restart at 3. ; if not, stop!266 GERD LAU-  HAI~S DIETER LUTZ,.2,.2$AUTOMATIC  ANALYSIS OP THE GERMAN NOUN GROUP 267i~'~0~ 0 _ _v0 00v0 0O00 0 0o v 000o0268 GERD LAU-  HANS DIETER LUTZIn the case of (15), this algorithm produces no more than 8 analyses.That means that the unshortenend result of more than 100 analyses canbe reduced to 8 by using an improved version of analysis.
This showsthat the SBP gives us the syntactical information which is necessaryto make the correct analysis.On the opposite page we show that all 8 analyses are possible withthe SBP 0 4 auf+ 1 and the structure of NGs as in (15).Sometimes one can find more than one finite verb in a sentence:(16) Er liebe bestimmte naheverb1 verb~ verb3adj~ adj~ adj3prep1adju~Wa'IderIn these cases one has to find out which of the verbs is the actual finiteverb.
In German the finite verb can appear at the first position in thesentence, at the second position, and at the end.
It is easy to fill upthe following matrix according to the verbs in (16):verbliebebestimmtenahe1 "t positionw2nq posizion+++endNeither verb1, verbs or verbs is standing at the first position or atthe end of the sentence.
From that we can conclude that each of themmust be at the second position of the sentence.
We still know anothercriterion to find the right verb: The string in front of it, at position1, must be an NK.
In (16) only verb1 meets this condition.
Thereforeliebe is the finite verb.Only if one knows a lot of syntactical heuristics like these, oneis able to decide at which level of sentence-analysis emantics houldbe employed.
We think there will be need for an interaction betweena syntactical and semantical component.
