V.N.
B~l~OOZ~l~OV - A.
A. POLIKARI'OVA MECHANISM OF THE ANALYTICITY DEVELOPMENT IN ALANGUAGE, ELEMENTS OF THE THEORY AND THECOMPUTER~ EXPERIMENT1.
From the point of view of the general cybernetic theory weconsider language to be a device, which regulates the information streamsin social systems.
1 On this basis it is possible to come to the conclusionof bilateral dependency of the language organization level (the levelof its complexity) on (1) complexity value of the language mechanisminput information stream, and (2) complexity value of the output in-formation stream which is to be produced by the language mecha-nism.~The relation between mentioned valuesthe following formula:L----- S ,may be represented bywhere L is complexity (volume) of the language (in the elementarylanguage units); 8 S is complexity (volume) of the input informationstream (in elementary sense units, which are supposed to be encoded);k is complexity (volume) of the output information stream (in elemen-tary sign units, in which sense units are coded).In the given paper we consider certain moments of dependencyof general level of human language complexity on some values of the1 The analysis of systems, in which communication processes are carried out and inwhich the necessity in communicative r gulators arises, is made in our papers.
It shouldbe noted that our analysis is based on the ontological model of the communicative pro-cess, which is represented in the series of papers on systems linguistics by G. P. Melni-kov, published in 1967-1972 (G. P. M~L'NmOV, 1967, 1969, 1970, 1972 a).2 It follows from the fundamental cybernetic law of the necessary variety (W. tk.ASHBY, 1958), which determines the functioning of any regulator.
A more detailed ana-lysis of the given dependency is made in the paper of A.
A. PoLn~vov (in press).8 Every language unit consists of a model of a sign coupled with its meaning.
On theprinciples of the inner organisation oflanguage one may consult he papers ofG.
P. M~' -Nmov (1969, 1970).24 V. N. BELOOZEROV- A.
A. POLIKARPOVoutput information stream; internal typological reconstructions oflanguage, wherein the change of its complexity is expressed, and somefundamental reasons of the changing in the values of the output infor-mation stream optimum redundancy are also treated.As is going to be shown below, the changing in the values ofthat parameter depends on some specific processes in the social systemsof communication.
That is why the main problem of the given paperrefers to the sphere of socio-linguistic problematics and constitutes afragment of the more complex socio-linguistic model, which is beingworked out at present.2.
Factors that lead to the changes in the parameter of languagecomplexity are, in our opinion, connected with increasing or decreas-ing of specific "noise level" in language communication channels.Such "noise" appears, for instance, in the case of long-time and intenselanguage contacts, when the community includes different languagebearing communicants amalgamated.
If the income of foreign-language communicants is weak and occurs from time to time, the lan-guage contact does not effect considerably the communication situa-tion (the foreign incomers accept gradually the common (original)language).
But in the case of stable income of such communicants intothe communicative system, and for that reason of stable low averagevalue of language message comprehension i the community, thecommunicative system has to change the values of its parameters inorder to increase the e~ciency of communication.
One of the results ofsuch a process is the reorganisation f language, its transition to themore simple organisation, which is described in the terms of linguistictypology as analyticisation.The interrelation between the phenomenon f language contacts andlanguage analyticisation was already indicated more than once (L.T~SNI~.m~, 1939; U. Wr.INR~CH, 1953; U. W~m~ICH, 1972; G.C~ARDT, 1950, V. Ju.
I~OSnNZW~.IG, 1972) but the mechanism and tran-sitional stages of the development of the process remains undiscoveredup to the present ime.
The communicative and intralanguage mecha-nisms of analyticity developing in language become to our mind, ap-parent, if we consider the following hypothetical model.3.
We take as the starting point of building the model the factthat the average level of mutual comprehension f the interlocutorsdecreases at the beginning of interlanguage contacts.
Due to the vitalA MECHANISM OF THE ANALITICITY DEVELOPMENT IN A LANGUAGE 25importance of achieving mutual comprehension the interlocutors na-turally try to make their speech explicit to each other.
This is achievedby the increase of volume, complexity of messages, which as regardsthe preceding form of organisation of sign messages, can be definedas the increase of message redundancy.
After a certain period of timethe repeated attempts of the interlocutors to establish comlnunicationresult in discovering by the communicants a certain part of the commonlanguage vocabulary as the most accessible for the typical interlocutorunder given circumstances, i.e.
they result in the narrowing of thevocabulary in comparison with the vocabulary of the language at theprevious stage.
It turns out that the most suitable and productivepart of the vocabulary is, as a rule, that part in which the most general,most universal, most frequently used words are concentrated.
This verypart of the vocabulary allows, in a general way, to "hint " eachphenomenon of reality.
Besides, mastering of the language systembegins only with this most frequently used, most universal part, evenat the lowest stage of one's /earning the language.As a result of the universalization f a definite part of meanings orescaping of some of them, all the system of semantic oppositions inthe language is being reconstructed, i.e.
the most peripheral oppositionsfall out and the central ones are strengthened.
This process in the lan-guage is well examplified in the escaping semantic oppositions be-tween different grammatical " words" (grammatical morphemes andpronoun-adverbial ndicators).
As a result of this, many grammaticalindicators top "working" and, being useless, are reduced, and wordsshortened till one syllable only.
The stabilising level of an optimum re-dundancy of the sign messages in these conditions, beyond doubt, ishigher than during the period, which preceded the reconstructions ofthe language system, because in order to reach the optimum (i.e.
pre-ceding) level of understanding with the help of the most general intheir meaning sign-" hints ", it is necessary to describe the object ofa message from several various points.
Aims, which are reached bya synthetic language with the help of a single but complex "hint ",in analytical languages are reached with the help of several, actuallygrouped, "hints ", which are not necessarily fixed beforehand in thespeaker's memory to be used together.
Meanwhile, the synthetic lan-guage organization presumes that the "hints" are fixed in the long-time memory of a typical narrator.
In the latter case, the language in-tensively spends the memory volume and spares the operating effortsfor message producing.
On the contrary, the analytical language forces26 V. N. BELOOZERO'V- A.
A. POLIKARPOVto economize the communicants' long-time memory and to exploittheir efforts when encoding the communicative intentions, to a greaterextent.Thus we may assume that the synthetic type of language organi-sation is preferable because of communicative causes.
This preferencearises from the fact that the circumstances accompanying this lan-guage type allow the fixing in the language system of many of the mostsuccessful means of denotating objects of reality.
Analytical type oflanguage organisation, on the contrary, makes the average languagespeaker fix in the language only a certain minimum of languageexperiences, it makes him improvise the actual formation of the mes-sage.
This, apparently, does not promote the precision, optimalityin denoting objects.4.
We undertook a mathematical check-up of the connection be-tween the starting point of the process of analyticity increase (i.e.
thefact of decrease of the level (probability) of comprehension f the signmessages generated with the help of the language) and one of the ter-minal moments of the process (the increase of the optimum redun-dancy level of messages built on the basis of the preserved part of thevocabulary).For the calculation, the following model of communication wasdesigned.
A speaker must "convey" to a listener the sense, which canbe "transferred" in the most favourable, so-called "noiseless" case,with the help of the utterance containing N signs.
The average proba-bility of comprehending the signs (with definite "interferences" pre-sent) is P. From the whole number of signs, which to some extent makea "h in t "  to the sense, the speaker chooses m items (m >1 N), and thenhe produces the utterance, consisting of the signs chosen before, to thelistener.
Judging by the reaction of the listener, he makes a conclusionon the result of the experiment, whether the sense was caught or not.The sense of the utterance is considered to be understood if the numberof signs, clear for the listener, exceeds N. Then the act of communica-tion appears to be accomplished.
If the sense of the utterance has notbeen caught, the speaker repeats the random choice of m signs from thesame set, and build new utterances until the listener comes to understandthe sense of the utterance at last.
In this process the previous utte-rances are considered to have neither effect on the comprehension offurther "transforms" nor on the new choice of the signs.In such a model of conversation, the time necessary for one act ofA MECHANISM OF THE ANALITICITY DEVELOPMENT IN A LANGUAGE 27communication can be evaluated by the expected number of signs (K),produced in all the utterances taken together.
If the average probabilityof every sign to be understood is P, then the probability of comprehen-sion of at least N signs of the whole number (m) is P, nN = ~ C,~P~(1-P) ml.The average number of utterances, given in order to reach comprehen-sion, isooi~lThen the expected uration of the communication isThis value was calculated with the help of the computer for dif-ferent magnitudes of m, N, P. The typical diagrams of dependencyK - m for different P is represented in Fig.
1.The optimum utterance r dtmdancy minimizing the expected timeof reaching comprehension appears to exist at any volume of in-formation, which is to be transferred, and at any probability of compre-hension of the signs transferred.
The diagram showing the depen-m-N dency of the optimum redundancy Aopt = rain ~ oll P is repre-sented in Fig.
2.The data given above show that, for the communicational situationcharacterized by the partial comprehension f signs, the more re-dundancy the message contains the more is the probability of mis-comprehension.
The speaker's intuitional search for the optimumstrategy of communication, leading to the rise of sign saturation ofutterances, evokes other phenomena, characterising the developmentof analytic features in language; the higher the degree of these, thelower is the level of comprehension.To sum up, we must emphasise, that oll the basis of the model giv-en above a more complicated model might be constructed.
The phe-nomenon of communicants' adaptation to each other in the courseof the attempts to "transfer" the sense information must be taken intoconsideration i further esearch.The further prospects of elaboration and computerized checkingof the model seem to be the following: the comprehension levelduring the communication can be connected with such parameters28 V. N. BELOOZEROV-A.
A. POL IKARPOV403020100.9P=0.7P= 0.8P=0.5P~-0.60.4P= 0.9+9??10Fig.
1.M!
I,20 30A MECHANISM OF THE ANALITIClTY DEVELOPMENT IN A LANGUAGE 29AoptN----2N>4i .
: # I ,~  , !0 02 0.4 0.6 0.8~g.
2.P!1.0as (1) the degree of divergency between the language units stock ofcontacting languages (the more prominent is the divergency betweencontacting language the lower is the level of comprehension), (2) thepercentage of nonprinciple language speakers within the community(the more numerous the representatives of the language, the lower theaverage level of comprehension), (3) the intensity of contacts betweenthe representatives of different languages (the more frequent the con-30 V. N. BBLOOZEROV- A.
A. POLIKARPOVtacts between different languages representatives, thelower the averagelevel of comprehension i that communicative system), etc.
Further,the definite qualitative types of languages 4 can apparently be evaluatedby means of the definite quantitative index.
5 The efficient shift of thequantitative index during language volution, breaking the definiteranges boundaries, seems to define the transition of language into anotherqualitative type.
The quantitative characteristics of languages can becalculated theoretically and empirically checked up by numeral cha-racterisation of communicative situations (percentage of nonprinci-ple language representatives, the divergency degree of contacting lan-guages, etc.)
in which the language is formed.
As a result, the matrixof language types can be associated with the matrix of communica-tive situation types.To put it briefly, the given perspectives are those of creating acomplex-structured sociolinguistic model with many parameters re-flecting the data of modern qualitative and quantitative linguistic ty-pology as well as quantitative and qualitative sociological typology.One may expect hat the successive detection, the quantification ofthe values of linguistic and sociological parameters, the revealing oftheir relationships will result in building up the explanatory sociolin-guistics theory.
This theory can find out the correlation between thegiven states of a language and the given states of society employing it.This theory is very likely to predict with a high degree of certaintythe future development of languages and the human language in gene-ral with a view of perspectives of humanity's social development.
Itis possible, having a carefully worked out theory (that is, knowing prin-ciple correlations between language and society), to simulate with thehelp of a computer the evolution of the given language as the functionof the facts given by the history of the people employing this language,of the communicative system history, in which the language is formed,Turn to one of the most full, in our opinion, classifications of language types,represented in the paper of G. P. M~L'~rmov (1972 b).5 In the first line we mean the criteria of evaluation of real object complexity basedon the categorical system of information theory.
These problems are being considered,for example, in the paper of S. M. DAt~corF and H. QUASTL~ (1953).R.EFEP, ENCESW.
IL.
ASHBY, An introduaion to cyber-netics, London 3rd imp., 1958.V.
N. BELOOZEROV, O fonologi\[eskichedinicach v kanalach massovoj kommu-nikacii, in Semiotika sredstv massovojkommunikacii, Materialy simpoziuma18-20 ijunja 1973 g., MGU.S.
M. DaNCO~, H. QUASTL~, The Infor-mation Content and Error Rate of LivingThings, in Information Theory in Biology,Urbana 1953.G.
P. M~t'NIKOV, Sistemnaja lingvistika iee otno~enle k strukturnoj, in Problemyjazykoznanija, Moskva 1967.G.
P. M~Z'NIKOV, Sistemnyj analis gelo-vdeskich jazykov v svjazi s problemojmodelirovanija jazykovych processov ipostroenija universal'nych mMinnychjazykov, Ot~ety LASUP, S MGPI ira.V.
I. LENINA, Sektor ob~ej teoriisistem, za 1968 i 1969 gg., Moskva.G.
P. M~'NIKOV, Rdevaja dejatel'nost'pribilingvizme, in IV seminar Fo vopro-sam teorii i praktiki perevoda nau~noji techni\[eskoj literatury, 2-4 nojabra1970, Tezisy dokladov, Moskwa-Tbi-lisi 1970.G.
P. M~'NmOV, Sistemnyj podchod v lin-gvistike, in <~ Sistemnye issledovanija ~,E{egodnik 1972, Moskva 1972(a).G.
P. MBL'NIKOV, Determinantnaja klassi-fikacija jazykov i jazyki bantu, in<~Africana.
Africanskij etnografi~eskijsbornik,>, IX, Leningrad 1972 (b).A.
A. POUKARPOV, K objasneniju oso-bennostej sintaksisa jazyka nauki kakjazyka massovoj kommunikacii, n Se-mioti\[eskie problemy jazykov nauki, ter-minologii i informatiki, Materialy sim-poziuma, t. 2, MGU, 1971.A.
A. POUKARPOV, O meste sistemy masso-voj kommunikacii /MK/ v tipoIogii kom-munikativnych sistem, in Semiotikasredstv massovoj kommunikacii, Mate-rialy simpoziuma 18-20 ijunja 1973 g.,MGU.V.
Ju.
R.osrNzw~m, Jazykovye kontakty,Leningrad 1972.G.
~UCI-IARDT, Izbrannye stat'ji po jazy-koznaniju, Moskva 1950.L.
T~SNmRE, Phonologie et melange deslangues, in ~, Travaux du Cercle linguis-tique de Prague,~, VIII (1939).U.
W~mlu~ICH.
Languages in Contact,New York 1953.U.
WEINREICH, Odnojazycie i mnogoja-zy~ie, in , Novoe v lingvistike ~), vyp.VI, Moskva 1972.
