ASKAR DZHUBANOV - BAKHITDZHAN KHASANOVCOMPUTATIONAL DESCRIPTION OF THE KAZAKHLANGUAGEThe subsequent development of the languages and their comprehen-sive study in connection with social progress is a natural process inour multinational socialist country.
Such development and interrela-tion (or interaction) of languages can be observed in Kazakhstan, wherethe representatives of more than one hundred and twenty nations andnationalities live and the languages are developed in conditions of com-plete equality of rights.
Some of these languages have already becomethe object of linguistical investigations.
For example, the Kazakh lin-guists at present investigate the problems of the Kazakh, the Russianand the Uigur languages and their interaction with many other languagesin our republic.
Hence at the International conference on computationallinguistics we should like to speak about our experiments of computa-tional studying of the modern Kazakh language.The first experiments ofstatistical study of the Kazakh language havebeen made by professor H. K. Dzhubanov at the beginning of thethirties.
Then such professors as S. K. Kenesbayev, N. T. Sauran-bayev, M. B. Balakaiev, S. A. Amanzholov and others made at-tempts to use a statistical method in their researches.
Nevertheless itcan be said that statistical methods have been accidentally used by Ka-zakh linguists.
At present here is a group o f "  Statistical investigationand automation " and the laboratory of experimental phonetics.The Institute regularly holds republican and all-union conferenceson statistical and informative study of Turkish languages (1969), andalso on the automatic recognition of acoustic images (1972), a numberof scientific works have already been published by our scientific work-ers.
1 One of them is Dzhubanov's investigation, its theme "Thestatistical investigation of a Kazakh text with the use of a computer ",(the use of the material of Auezov's epic Abai zholy - Abai's path).
2x K.B.
BEKTAYEV, Language Statistics (1957-1972), Alma Ata, 1972,M.
O. AuEzov, "Abai ", A novel, Foreign languages Publishing House, Moscow,1957.76 ASKAR DZHUBANOV - BAKI - I ITDZHAN KHASANOVFirst of all it was necessary to work out methods on the automaticconstruction of frequency lists of linguistic units with the use of a Turkishtext where a computer is used for the first time.
Apparatus coding textinformation, introductory and discharge quipment of modern comput-ers are founded on Latin and Russian drawing.
Therefore for the con-venience of coding of the texts and the universality of machine pro-grams for putting into shape the linguistic material of these languages,the unit transcriptions of identical phonemes of different Turkish lan-guages are adopted in this work.The investigation was made on the harmony of statistic distributionsof classes of words of the Kazakh language by the following theoreticallaws: normal, logarithmic-normal, distributions of Puasson and Sharliein two types (A and/3).
It was established that the choice of a standard(amount of series, a number of series and the amount of choice) in-fluences the character of distribution of the researching linguistic unitin this connection.One can say that the language of the epic was statistically describedcompletely.The epic has 465,966 words (expressions): I book has 105,788, Ixbook - 124,398, m book - 112,727, iv book - 123,053 - words (orexpressions).One hundred highly frequent wordforms have been commentedin the investigation.
It's interesting to remark that different conjunctions(da, de), particles (ma, me) are used more often.
Many of them helped theauthor to create individual expressions.
Then he commented auxiliaryverbs (from the stems e and de, otir, tur, gut, gatir) and modal words;then the pronouns (men, sen) and the adverbs (endi, kazir), the adjec-tives, nouns, pronouns.The frequency of equally used wordforms has been defined, thetotal number of them is 110.
The correlation of highly frequent wordsin the epic in its whole and in its parts taken separately has beendefined too.Kazakh linguists are intending to analyse qualitatively all parts ofspeech of the Kazakh language using works of leading Kazakh poetsand writers.For instance, statistics for the lexicomorphological structure of theadjectives were studied.
They are used 38,531 times in the epic whichcomprises 8.3 ?/o of the whole wordbuilding.
Various wordforms of theadjectives can be met 4,773 times without accounting for repetition,that is 7.7 ?/o of all wordforms in the epic amounting to 61,824 words.COMPUTATIONAL DESCRIPTION OP THE KAZAKH LANGUAGE 77These percentage correlations express vividly the equality of distri-bution of words - adjectives in accordance with a word - list andtext of the epic.Statistic linguists of the Institute started studying statistically thecomplete works of M. Auezov consisting of 12 volumes.
It is plannedto investigate works of other leading Kazakh writers in the future.The experiment and method worked out in the investigations ofthe Kazakh language have practical meaning in the statistic-linguisticstudy of other languages of the nations of Kazakhstan.
