V. B. Bo~Ev - M. V. CHOMJAKOVNEIGHBOUR.HOOD DESCRIPTIONOF FORMAL LANGUAGES1.
Preamble.
There exists a huge amount of formal anguages whichare used for many different purposes.
These languages differ both asregards their syntax (rules for forming propositions) and their semantics(the way of interpreting propositions).
The authors' last two papersin this field were devoted to completely different topics.
One of them(V. B. Bo~&v, M. V. CHOMJA~:OV, 1973), delivered at the last con-ference in Debrecen, concerns formal grammars.
The other (V. \]3.Bo~.v ,  M. V. C~OMJA~:OV, 1972) deals with computable functionsand relations.
To the authors' surprise, it appeared that constructionsarising in both papers had a lot of similar features.
The aim of thisreport is to investigate these similarities.
We hope that this discussionwill help to throw light upon problems related to the semantics offormal languages.2.
Grammars.
Nowadays a language in mathematical linguisticsis regarded as a set of texts (for example, strings, syntactical structures,programmes, etc.
), and a grammar as a way of describing this set.It proved to be convenient to represent any text as a finite model overa suitable signature, consisting of the names of relations that actuallyoccur in the text (the dependence relation, the order from left to right,etc.).
Vertices (points of the model's carrier) correspond to elementsof the text (words, immediate constituents, etc.).
Usually a grammaris a generative process, enumerating all proper texts of the language.We were tempted to determine the properness of a text by means ofits intrinsic features.
It turned out to be sufficient o consider only theimmediate nvironment of every vertex of any proper text.
All thetypes of such environments can be reduced to a small number of neigh-bourhoods.
A neighbourhood is a small model in which a certainvertex - the centre - is marked.
We say that a neighbourhood holdsfor a vertex of a text, if it can be mapped in the text by an isomorphismv.
B. BOR~V-  M. V. CHOMJ^KOVin such a way that the centre is mapped on the vertex.
We describethe environment of any vertex by pointing out which neighbourhoodsmust hold for it and which must not.
Thus, any grammar is a logicalformula over a finite number of neighbourhood.
This formula hasto hold for every vertex of any proper text.For example, in the case of the context-free grammar, for everyrule of the form A-+ aBAb there corresponds a neighbourhoodAthe whole grammar being the disjunction of all such neighbourhoods.Different kinds of grammars may be obtained by imposing restrictionson the shape of the neighbourhoods and formulas.3.
Algorithms.
Algorithms is a method of defining functions ofrelations.
Several equivalent forms are known (the recursive definition,Turing machines, Markov's algorithms and programming languages).In every case the function or relation in question is constructed onsome carrier (the set of natural numbers, the set of strings on somealphabet, etc.
), and one can use certain basic relations and functions(such as 0 and the successor function on the set of natural numbers,standard i~reludes in .~a.GOI.-68, etc.)
and construct auxiliary functionsand relations if necessary.
Thus emerges the model on the suitablecarrier over a signature consisting of the name of our function and thenames of the basic and auxiliary functions and relations.
Unlike usualalgorithmic systems which describe the process of the generation ofsuch a model, we can attempt to characterise it by means of its intrinsiclocal features.
For every pair of points (x,f(x)) (generally for everyn-tuple for which R(xl, ..., x,~) holds once again it was sufficient oconsider its immediate nvironment in the model.
We introduced theneighbourhood again as any finite model over the same signature havinga centre, a marked n-tuple.
A neighboorhood holds for a certain -tu-ple of the model, if there is a homomorphism from the neighbourhoodto the model (the centre mapped on the n-tuple).
The finite collectionof neighbourhoods is called a scheme.
A model is proper accordingto the scheme, if for every pair (x, f(x)) (every n-tuple (xl, ..., x,)),wheref(x) or R(xl, ..., x,,) is the main or auxiliary function (relation),NEIGHBOURHOOD DESCRIPTION OF FORMAL LANGUAGES 5there exists the scheme's suitable neighbourhood which holds for it.It was proved that with the help of the scheme it is possible to defineevery computable function, i.e.
for every algorithm one can pointout such a scheme that the model of this algorithm will be coveredproperly by the neighbourhoods of the scheme.
Moreover, unlikealgorithms, chemes may describe classes of models as well.
The usageof schemes makes possible simpler descriptions of the semantics ofprogramming languages.4.
It is easy to see that these two works possess a number of sim-ilar features.
Let us try to formulate them in a more exact manner.In both cases the objects we deal with are models over some signature.On the other hand, the language for describing these models is intro-'duced each time.
Then we construct he correspondence b tweenevery proposition of the language and the models which satisfy it (thesemantics of the language).
The language we use is the set of neigh-bourhood formulas.
Its semantics is the rule for covering any modelby the formulas' neighbourhoods.
The models that prove to have theproper covering are the models of the formula.Some differences between these two works should be mentioned.In the first case, we deal with infinite sets of finite models - the textsand neighbourhoods were stated for vertices of the texts.
However,for the algorithms the models are infinite and the neighbourhoods arestated for all the occurences of functions or relations (pairs, triples ofpoints and so on).But the main point is that in both cases our description consistsof 1) finding out certain finite collections of pieces of these models- neighbourhoods - and 2) the rule by means of which the modelsare covered by these neighbourhoods.5.
It seems for us that this method may be of use for investigatingmany formal languages.
The following is a tentative attempt to applythis method to the predicate calculus of the first order.Given some signature, let us consider all the models and propo-sitions over it.
Every formula signifies the set of models for which itis true.
Let us try to determine the intrinsic features of the modelsbelonging to this set.
Consider our formula in prenex form, i.e.
asQxl Qx~ ... Qx, F(xl ... x,), Q being V or ~I, and F being'quantifier-free.
Let F be in disjunctive normal form (F ~ Flv F2v...vF,).
Thenfor every F~ we construct a finite model - the neighbourhood.
ThevvV.
B. BORSCEV- M. V. CHOMJAKOVcarrier of this model is the set of variables occuring in Fi, while therelations are those that hold on the variables in F~.
The neighbourhoodholds for an n-tuple of points in the model, if the relations in the modelholding on these points are arranged in the same way as in the neigh-bourhood.
The rule of covering a model by the neighbourhoods irather complicated, dictated as it is by quantifiers of the formula.
Itcan be explained on the example of the formula\[R(x, y) & (y <which works for the set of natural numbers and defines the relationR (the relation < being basic).
Associate the neighbourhoodOwith the formula.
The quantifiers require the covering of any propermodel to satisfy the following: the point z should exist such that" turn-ing" the neighbourhood around it the vertex x would cover allsets of natural numbers.
Although the rule of covering does not appearto be too simple, we can note the same features again - the existenceof neighbourhoods and the rule of covering.6.
Conclusions.
As a rule a formal language is used for describingeither large (infinite) objects or large (infinite) classes of objects.
Thedescription is stated as a proposition about the objects.
The proposi-tion itself is finite (as a matter of fact it is comparatively small enoughto satisfy in a sense the law 7 ?
2).
It is convenient to divide the mean-ing of the proposition into two parts.
Firstly it contains a collectionof neighbourhoods - the small pieces which may be included in a largeobject or a large class of objects.
The second part of the propositiondictates the way of covering the models by neighbourhoods.
Wehope that this viewpoint may turn out to be useful for describing thesemantics of formal languages.tLEFEtLENCESV.
B. Bo~g~Ev, M. V. CHOMJAKOV,Schemes for Functions and Relations,Reports of the CMEA conferenceAutomatic Processing of Texts in Naturallanguages (in Kussian), Yerevan, 1972.V.
B. Bol~g~:~v, M. V. C~IOMjaXOV, AnAxiomatic Approach m the Descriptionof Formal Languages, in MathematicalLinguistics (in Kussian), Moscow, 1973.
