R.. G. PIOTROWSKI - I. V. PALIBINAAUTOMATIC PATTERN RECOGNITION APPLIEDTO SEMANTIC PkOBLEMSThe idea of computer pattern recognition as applied to semanticshas the same basic principles as the theory of the perception, which rep-resents a sufficiently generalized model for that part of the brain whosefunction is classification, insofar as classification presupposes similaritybetween elements (or groups of elements) of the same class and differ-ence between elements (or groups of elements) of different classes.In this respect automatic semantic pattern recognition (ASPR)consists in the following.
An unknown text is analyzed by computer.At the first stage of the text treatment its subject matter is identifiedat the word-form level.
The second stage results in indicative abstract-ing at the phrase (word-group) level.The theory of semantic pattern recognition offers a number ofconcepts with their structural and functional particularities.
First ofall, these are concepts of1) semantic space, as a certain semantic zone of the language;2) semantic regions, as certain semantic subzones of this space;3) distinguishing factors, those semantic elements in whose termsthe semantic space is being formed;4) pattern alphabet - a list of the region names and finally theconcept of5) semantic pattern itself.The semantic pattern is regarded to be the name of a particularregion of the semantic space wherein information structure on pheno-mena of the outer world is reflected.
This information structure isrepresented as an ordered set consisting of objects (as extra-linguisticreality) and its relations.
Any information on the phenomena ofobjectivereality could be rendered by means of combinations of objects togeth-er with their relations.
Any finite set of objects combined with therelations between them produces ituation.
So, properly speaking, thesemantic pattern is a situation mould, sui generis, transferred to the na-104 R.G.
HOTROWSra- X. V. PAUB~NAtural language.
A real semantic space which is represented by a sub-language is infinite and reflects all possible situations in the given sub-language that has a concept system of its own.
This concept system isreflected and fixed in texts as a whole complex of semantic relationsalong with signifiants of individuals.
If the semantic space manifestsitself as a specific sublanguage then its regions can naturally be repre-sented by separate branches of knowledge, divisions and subdivisionsof this sublanguage and even by a single descriptor.
A list of the re-gion names, into which the semantic space falls, makes an alphabet ofpatterns.
Ideally, the pattern alphabet agrees with UDC entries.The actual semantic space referred to, e.g.
texts of any scientificand technical sublanguage is under study, to be exact, a finite model forthis semantic space as word-form (or segment) frequency dictionary,obtained as a result of automatic text processing.
By this means there isa model a posteriori whose structure follows naturally from the proper-ties, particularities and semantic parameters of the source material.
Fre-quency dictionaries representing a certain semantic zone of a scientificand technical sublanguage along with subject frequency microdiction-aries, as semantic subzones of this sublanguage give a true lexical pic-ture and reflect the specific content system for a given sublanguage.A word-form (segment) frequency dictionary of the texts under investi-gation serves as a basis for selecting semantic distinguishing factors,which are represented by the meaning of certain word-forms, words(key words) and segments (key segments).
The construction of recog-nizing systems is a matter of some difficulty especially in the field ofman-machine communications.
Recognition is regarded to be the wholecomplex of processes in the system, including the process of learning.In forming a recognizing automaton we ~ rough-hew )) the ~ internal ))world of the computer, a functional model of high nervous activity,our attention being focused on experimental criteria only, that is ~ con-sciousness ~)is considered from a functional point of view.
As we statedabove, the recognition process falls into learning and the application ofinformation obtained in learning, i.e.
extrapolation of regularities oflinguistic material, that has been registered into the storage to the sourcetext in its processing.
The structure of recognizing automaton shouldreflect he information ature of that branch of knowledge (specific sub-language) on whose treatment it is oriented.
It involves a variety of refe-rence regions (3talons) of the semantic space of the sublanguage undertreatment.
These reference regions are represented by generalized patternsof sublanguage divisions which are being formed on the basis of distin-AUTOMATIC PATTERN RECOGNITION' 105guishing semantic factors obtained after statistico-distributional a lysisof a great body of scientific and technical texts in English and Russianhas been carried out.
The reference region manifests as a certain modelfor a specific branch of knowledge with its characteristic features andparticularities as it is represented in the designer's brain.
The morecomprehensive and deeper insight of the recognizing automaton de-signer into this branch of knowledge, the better the reference regionserves the purpose of recognition.
By the end of learning as manyreference regions must be recorded in the storage as we can bringout analysing the texts under study.
Each of these reference regionsinvolves anumber of distinguishing semantic factors that provide descrip-tions of the semantic space regions; the semantic factor selection followsthe principle of establishing a strict line of demarcation between theregions in making their descriptions; either distinguishing semanticfactors are available in a region of semantic space and not found in allthe other regions, or they can possibly be found there.Two possible situations arise from checking a semantic pattern ofan unknown source text against reference regions recorded into thestorage in the course of teaching computer.1) Deterministic situation occurs when a description of a sourcetext pattern agrees (p = 1) or doesn't (p = 0) with a reference region,it means, that the source text belongs to that scientific and technicalbranch of knowledge, whose model this particular eference regionrepresents.2) Probabilistic situation occurs when a partial agreement be-tween semantic patterns of a source text and reference region descrip-tion occurs.
The coincidence probability takes all the values in theinterval from 0 to 1.Both deterministic and probabilistic models of semantic patternrecognition function at different levels such as lexical, morphologo-syntactical, semantico-syntactical.Of the working semantic recognition systems which have beendeveloped until now one can name the bilingual automatic dictionary(deterministic model at lexical level), the bilingual dictionary of segments(deterministic model at morphologo-syntactical level), multilingualthesaurus of local syntactical meanings (deterministic model at seman-tico-syntactical level), semantic, pattern recognition system for indexing,annotating and abstracting (both deterministic and probabilistic modelsat the integrated semantico-morphologo-syntactical level).Ill addition,a bilingual thesaurus development is under way.106 1~.
G. P IOTROWSKI -  I. V. PALIBINAIn obtaining the information eeded for the efficient performanceof an automatic system for semantic pattern recognition we used thestatistico-distributional technique combined with automatic text treat-ment.
It offers a higher degree of formalization of the process andalso of objectivity.
Each of these factors is of prime importance if theproblem of ASPK is to be worked out and realized on a commercialscale.
