F. KNOWLESTHE QUANTITATIVE SYNTAGMATIC ANALYSISOF THE RUSSIAN AND POLISH PHONOLOGICAL SYSTEMSThe description of a language's phonological system is not completewithout statistically reliable data pertaining to the varied syntagmaticrelations occurring within that system.
A measure of ftmctional loadis needed to elucidate the efficiency, viewed from a cybernetic angle,of the particular set of phonemes.
This approach opens up the wayfor various information-theoretic concepts such as entropy, relativeentropy, information content and redundancy.
These values are deriv-ed, with respect to the Russian and Polish phoneme inventories,ranging from zero to the third order.
It is useful to consider the effi-ciency of various methods of information-theoretic coding proceduresfor phonemic strings.
Huffman coding can achieve not only a highdegree of efficiency but also a relatively trouble-free unique decodingroutine.In the syntagmatic analysis of phonological systems, junctures ofvarying types must be taken into account and must be " retrievable "for statistical purposes.
The presence of count details relating to junctureallow an acceptable " transfer modulus " to be derived which can bea useful parameter in the comparison of a language's phonemic andgraphemic systems.The question of sample size is important in any statistical survey,not least in linguistics.
Pilot tests have to be run in order to yield ageneral impression of a given phonemic distribution.
Nearly all pho-nemic inventories how a Lexian or hyperbinomial distribution.
Veryoften these distributions can be plotted logarithmically togive a reason-able fit to a theoretical exponential curve, derived from considerationssimilar to those postulated by Zipf in lexical statistics.
Most phonemesystems contain rare phonemes - in Russian /~,/ is a case of such aphoneme - which present some difficulty, when probability intervalsare to be estimated from relative frequencies.
Using a 95 % confidencelevel and a 10 % error margin the sample size needed to satisfy these80 P. KNOWLESconditions with regard to the rarest phonemes tends to become verylarge - often of the order of several hundred thousand - whereas asample of 20,000 phonemes is often sufficient to "pinpoint" pho-nemes of the highest frequency.
A compromise decision regardingsample size has to be taken in which it appears reasonable to allow nomore than 10 % of the phoneme inventory - that is, between fourand five phonemes, normally - to exceed the stated confidence criteria.One area of great interest to the phonologist is the extent of binaryrelations occurring within phoneme systems.
What is needed is a nu-merical assessment ofrelational features uch as completeness, transitivity,reflexivity, symmetry.
These values are computed according to themethods proposed by Hovary and Paper.
The results these methodsgive are partly statistical and partly Boolean but taken together it canbe said that Hovary-Paper indices are important parameters of phonol-ogical systems.It can also be shown that the distribution of phonemes over ar-bitrary " blocks " of text is of a Poissonian character.
The division ofa large corpus into many small blocks can also yield information abouttext homogeneity.The sampling methods used to construct a large data-base are alsoimportant.
If a corpus can be broken down into a small number, saytwenty, of sub-corpora, a further test of homogeneity is available.
Thesampling distribution over these sub-units can also supply informationneeded to construct "population" probability intervals.In much of computational linguistics it is as important to commenton computational methodology as on the linguistic results obtained.Mention must therefore be made of the specialised hardware and soft-ware that was necessary for implementing the above P~ussian-Polishcontrastive phonemic analysis.
The computer used was a second-gen-eration English Electric XDr9, having 32K of core store and appropriatebacking store in the form of discs and magnetic tapes.
An extension ofALGOI.
60 was used as the chief programming language.
A series ofinput and output routines allowed special characters to be printed eitherby overprinting or by using two-line output.
A number of speciallydesigned procedures permitted the manipulation of characters, tringsand the addressing of specified parts of machine-words.The basic sorting process used was a tree-sort which, however, hadto be adapted for a number of different uses.
The programs usedwere:a) sort of individual phonemes, giving frequency, relative fre-ANALYSIS OF THE RUSSIAN AND POLISH PHONOLOGICAL SYSTEMS 81quency, standard eviation, functional load, entropy, redundancy, con-fidence limits, sample size, and Huffman codes.b) sort of phoneme pairs (digrams) giving appropriate frequencies,matrix representation, second-order information-theoretic values, fullrange of Hovary-Paper indices.c) sort of phoneme triples (trigrams), giving list of clusters andthird-order information-theoretic values.d) sort of individual text files, giving full details of phonemedistribution in "numerical " as well as alphabetic order.e) sort of phonemes over "blocks ", to fit theoretical Poissondistribution and to assess homogeneity.f) comparison of phonological systems, giving a measure of typo-logical "distance"
