T~j K. BH^w/aiA COMPUTATIONAL INVESTIGATION ON THEPERCEPTION AND ACQUISITION OF ASPIRATIONO.
Introduction.
1The phenomenon of aspiration in Hindi has intrigued phoneticiansand phonologists for some time.
However, so far no adequate investi-gation of this phenomena has been made.The earlier acoustical (i.e., perceptional) studies which have beenperformed on the phonetic aspects of Hindi can be grouped into two1) acoustically-oriented, and 2) linguistically-oriented studies.
In thearea of acoustic studies, the most significant work was done byJ.
GUVTA,S.
AGRAWAL and R.. AHUAD (1969) and 1~.
AHMAD and S. AG~AWAr(1969).
In their experiment they have revealed the significant featuresin the perception of Hindi consonants in normal as well as in clippedspeech.
For example, they pointed out that the average ffect of dip-ping on features follows the order: 1) place; 2) nasality; 3) flappedliquids; 4) liquids; 5) continuants; 6) voicing; 7) friction; 8) aspiration;9) affrication, i.e., the place of articulation is most important in theintelligibility of any sound, and affrication is least important.
Thehigher the rank, the higher the intelligibility.
Earlier, W. J. BLACKand S. SINOH (1966), in their experiment with four language groups,namely English, Hindi, Arabic and Japanese, have also pointed outsignificant features.
However, their rank order is as follows: 1) na-sality; 2) place; 3) voicing; 4) friction; 5) liquid; 6) duration; 7) aspi-ration.
The focus of the above experiments was not aspiration.
Thesame is true about he linguistically oriented work done by D. P. GA~Dmand S. J^GGI (1971).
The present study of Hindi consonants i signif-icant for the following reasons: first, it examines the predictive role of1 My thanks are due to the following for their comments on this paper: Chin-chuanCheng and Chin W. Kim.
They are, however, not responsible for any mistakes in thisproject.34 TEJ K. BHATIAphonetic science in the light of the recent theory of aspiration pro-pounded by C. W. KIM (1970).
Second, it questions the absolute pre-dictive power of contrastive analysis.
Third, it investigates the acqui-sition and the development of perceptual cues in a certain amount oftime by proper language training.
Fourth, it presents an account of"perceptual interference" and also establishes " the hierarchy of dif-ficulties" (or probable error) on the part of English speakers.
Thusthis investigation has pedagogical merit, too.1.0.
Methodology.A context-free data of minimal pairs of a set of 22 consonants ininitial, medial and final position was collected.
The minimal pairs areof two types: 1) unvoiced unaspirated vs. unvoiced aspirated; 2) voicedunaspirated vs. voiced aspirated.
Minimal pairs across the two typeswere also collected.
The total number of items in the data is 62, withthe following syllabic structures: CVCVC (18), CVCV (3), CVC (37),VC (2), VCC (1), VCV (1).
Both meaningful and non-sensical, butphonologically possible, pairs of words were included in the data.The randomized ata was presented to three native speakers 2 ofHindi for recording.
The recording of this data was made in the Uni-versity of Illinois Phonetic Laboratory at the speed of 33/4 n,s on AMl, rXModel AG 440 tape recorder.In order to include all 62 items but to maintain the random natureof the data, the recording of each speaker (S1, S~ and $3) was cut attwo uniform points.
Thus, the recording of each speaker was dividedinto three parts (X, Y and Z) and was joined together as shown in thediagram.Speaker TapeI had three informants: two males (myself and Mr. A_nil Arora) and one female,Mrs.
Vimala Mohan.
They are from Delhi, Pant Nagar (U.P.
), and Lucknow (U.P.)respectively.
My thanks are due to them.PERCEPTION AND ACQUISITION OF ASPIRATION 35This tape (which I shall call T1) included three readings and eachreading contained the voice of three informants.The final version of the perception test tape (Tz) was prepared bycopying T1 and by inserting the necessary instructions.
In T~ sufficientspace was inserted between each item so as to allow subjects enoughtime to mark their responses.The test matrix s of 62 X 4 was constructed by presenting theminimal pairs of every correct item.
For example, if the correct re-corded item is /kor/, the test matrix was prepared in the followingway: Ikhorl Ikorl Igor~ Ighorl.The perception test was relayed in the sound-isolated phonetic lab-oratory of the University of Wisconsin, Madison.
The test-tape wasplayed from the teacher's booth and 25 English-speaking subjects 4heard it in their respective booths.The IBM 360-25 was used to perform a quantitative analysis of morethan 18,000 items.
The test matrix was assigned codes.
The integers rep-resented the vertical position of the item.
On the horizontal scaleA, B, C, D represented 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th position, respectively.On the data cards, all the responses were punched according tothe following input format: 1) one or two integers represented thevertical position of the item; 2) A/B/C/D/represented the horizontalposition and 3) was followed by ', '4) representing the end of the reading.2.0.
Results.Tables I, II and ni represent the distribution of the records madeby the subjects in the initial, middle, and final position respectively.The consonants given along the horizontal axis represent the soundwhich was perceived by the subjects and the consonants along the ver-tical axis indicate the consonants which were spoken by informants.For example, in Table I, the second line indicates that kh was spokenin the initial position.
Out of 75 occurrences of hk, 19 times it was8 I am thankful to Mrs. Y. Kachru for the various suggestions in selecting data andfor helping me design the test matrix.4 My subjects were 25 English speakers who were from various universities of theUnited States.
In the summer of 1971 they came to Wisconsin to attend Summer School.All of them were going to leave for India to stay there for a year after the completionof intensive language training.
They were well-motivated and the perception test waspresented on the last day of language training.36 T~J K. BHATIA\[,...%O O O OPERCEPTION AND ACQUISITION OF ASPIRATION ~7OOOOP~u338 TEJ K. BHATIAIIEOPERCEPTION AND ACQUISITION OF ASPIRATION 39perceived as k; 55 times correctly as kh; and zero times as g and gh.Once there was no response.
Thus, out of 75 occurrences of kh, 55times it was correctly responded and 20 times it was confused.The diagonal represents the correct responses given by the subjectswhile readings on the left or right of it denote errors.
In the tables,NR stands for "No response", and TC stands for "Total Confusion"which is the sum of all the readings which appears on the left or rightof the diagonal plus NR.The results presented in these Tables (I, It and m) are summarizedbelow:(1) In all the positions, unvoiced unaspirated consonants, suchas k, c, t, T and p are mistaken more than unvoiced aspirated consonants.In medial position the only exception is TH.
TH is more confusedthan T.(2) In initial and medial positions, voiced aspirated consonantsare more confused than voiced unaspirated consonants.
The exceptionsare DH and gh in initial position.
(3) In contrast o initial and medial position, the confusion invoiced unaspirated consonants i more than in voiced aspirated con-sonants in final position.
The only exception is g.(4) The rate of confusion in the palatal series is much higherthan the rate of confusion which took place in other series.Thus, the above results indicate that subjects reacted ifferently infinal position and in initial and medial position in the case of voicedaspirated consonants.Table iv points out the first and second probable rrors and pre-sents a dear picture of mistakes made by the subjects.
The probableerror is drawn from the readings of Table I, II, and In.
First probableerror refers to the most frequent mistake while the second probableerror to the next most frequent mistake.
For example if g is 5 timesmistaken for k and 3 times mistaken for kh, then the first probableerror for g will be k and the second probable rror will be kh.In some cases there is a probability of three errors but the thirdone is the least confused; that is why it is omitted in Table iv.
Themost important error is the first probable error.
The error which isresponsible for 33 ~/o or more of the confusion is marked as significanterror and is indicated by a line under it and if 5 ~/o or less confusionis caused by an error, that error is considered to be insignificant andis indicated by a star.40 Tv.j x.  BHATIATAet~ IV.
Probable rror matrix (for TABT.~ x, 9, and 111) for initial, middle and final con-sonants.ConsonantsFirst SecondProblable Error Probable ErrorInitial Middle Final Combined Initial Middle Finalposition position position Error position position positionk kh kh kh kh g~h*kh k k k kg gh gh gh gh k* k*gh g kh g g kh* gc ch ch ch ch j j *ch c c c cj jh jh jh jh c*jh ch ch j ch/j j jT D TH TH TH/D TH D*TH T T T T DD DH DH DH T*DH D D D T/TH* T*t th th th th dh* dh*th t t t t dh*d dh dhdh d d d d t/th th*p ph b ph ph bh*ph p p p* pb bh bh bh bh p ph*bh b b ph b~h p~h* ph*R RH RH RHRH R R Rgh*g*kh*e*C*DH*DH*dt*t#h*bb* l~epresents insignificant error (CONFUSION is 5 % or less)Underlined consonants are significant errors (CONFUSION is 33 % or more)PERCEPTION AND ACQUISITION OF ASPIRATION 41The probable rror in initial, medial and final position is determinedfrom Tables I, rt and m respectively.
And then on the basis of signif-icance and frequency of the error in all three positions, a combinederror is determined.
The two other results which can be drawn fromTable IV are given below:(5) First probable error indicates that the confusion occurredmost frequently between the consonant classes which can be distinguishedby a single feature, i.e., either by aspiration or by voicing.The other indirect result which can be arrived at is that there isnot a single example in the first probable error which indicates thatthe confusion took place between consonant classes which can be distin-guished by two features, i.e.
voicing and aspiration.
Second probableerror record shows that such type of confusion did take place but itwas insignificant.TAI3t~ v. Rank Order of the Perceptually Confused Consonants.Initial Middle Final CombinedOne Feature Position Position Position Rank Order\[- -  aspirate\] 1 1 1 1\[ + aspirate\] 2 2 2 2\[ + voiced\] 3 3 3 3\[- -  voiced\] 4 4 4 4Two Features\[++ voiced \]aspirate" 1 1 2 1voiced 1\ [~  aspirate ~ 2 2 1 2\[ + voiced 1__ aspirate ~ 4 3 2 3\ [T  voiced \] 2 4 4 4aspirate JTable v presents the rank ordering of features.
The rank orderinghas been expressed in terms of one feature as well as in two features.The rank ordering of the consonants in determined by adding the totalnumber of confusions which took place in the perception of thoseconsonants.
First, the ranks have been established according to initial,medial and final position, i.e.
information transmitted by Tables I, II,and nI, respectively.
For example, if any consonant is confused the leastthen rank 4 is assigned.
On the other hand, if any consonant is confusedthe most in any position, it is assigned rank 1.
Second, by summing42 TEJ K. BHATIAup the ranks in all the positions the combined rank is determined.
Ifthe sum of all the three positions is least, rank 1 is assigned and if itis highest, rank 4 is allotted.
The rank o f  1 indicates the highest numberof confusions and the rank of 4, the least number of confusions.The labels in Table v are explained below:(a) \[-- Aspirate\] indicates that the the consonants such as k and g aremistaken for kh and gh respectively.
(b) \[+ Aspirate\] presents the opposite case of (a).
(c) \[+ Voiced\] indicates that voiced consonants uch as g and ghwere confused for unvoiced consonants k and khrespectively,(d) \[--Voiced\] shows that confusion was caused as a result of theaddition of voicing, i.e.
unvoiced consonants suchas k and kh were mistaken for voiced consonants gand gh respectively.Rank-ordering in terms of two features is presented below:(a) \[+ voiced 1 refers to the reverse case of(b).
+ aspirated jr--voiced 1 means unvoiced unaspirated consonants are mistaken(b) t aspirated j for voiced aspirated, i.e.
consonants like k are mista-ken for gh.r+ voiced 1 expresses that the consonants such as g and c are(c) L aspirated j mistaken for kh and ch respectively.\[--voiced "shows that unvoiced aspirated consonants were(d) + aspiratedl mistaken for voiced unaspirated consonants such asthe confusion of ch for j.The results which Can be drawn from Table v are given below.
(6) The confusion of unaspirated in all the positions is the highestof all.Consequently, \[--aspirated\] has the highest number one while\[+ aspirated\] has a lower rank.
The confusion which took place interms of the two features is insignificant except for the one whichhas rank one.PERCEPTION AND ACQUISITION OF ASPIRATION 43T~u3t~ vf.
The two types of interaction is shown below (on the basis of First Probable Error) :1. between unaspirated and aspirated consonants.2.
between voiced aspirated and unvoiced aspirated consonants and unvoiced unaspi-rated and voiced unaspirated consonants.For example: Confusion/k/and/kh/ (Diagonal indicates confusion of /g/ for /gh/etc.
and vice versa)k,e,t, T,P kh,ch, THth,ph g,i,D,d,b gh,/h,DHdh, bhunvoiced unvoicedunaspirated aspiratedk.c, T,t,p kh,ch, TDth,phvoiced voicedunaspirated aspirated~,j,D,d,b gh,ih,Dh,dhR bh,RHConfusion o f /T / fo r /D/  (/bh/was mistaken for/ph\[)unvoiced unvoiced voiced voicedunaspirated aspirated unaspirated aspirated1.
The straight lines indicate the correct-recognition of consonants.2.
Diagonals show confusion of sounds.3.0.
Discussion.A contrastive analysis of a fragment of Hindi and English soundswill predict the following bilingual interference:(1) In English, only unvoiced aspirated consonants occur in in-itial position so it is likely that an English speaker will replace unvoiced44 T~J K. BHATIAunaspirated consonants by unvoiced aspirated ones.
As a results of this,the perceptual confusion of unvoiced unaspirated consonants will bemore.My results mostly agree with the above statement.
(2) In medial and final position unvoiced aspirated consonantsdo not occur in English.
Therefore, such consonants are likely to bereplaced by unvoiced unaspirated consonants unless these syllables arestressed.My results partially agree with this prediction.
In medial positionunvoiced unaspirated consonants are preceded by su or ku CV-typeprefix.
The stress is carried by the second syllable; that is why unvoicedunaspirated consonants are mistaken more in medial position.
(3) The voiced aspirated consonants will be mistaken more thanvoiced unaspirated in all the positions because they are not present inEnglish.My results indicate that the conclusion of contrastive analysis isrelevant.
The subjects confused voiced aspirated consonants more thanvoiced unaspirated in initial and in medial position.
But in the finalposition the situation changes completely.In a recent study an attempt has been made to explain aspirationin terms of "voicing lag " (see L. LISK~R and A. A~I~AMSON, 1964;C. W. KIM, 1970).
5 Aspiration is explained in terms of two referencepoints, i.e.
(a) release of closure of a stop; and (b) the onset of voicing.Since in final position one reference point, i.e.
onset of voicing islost, thus, the theory implies that aspiration will be neutralized in wordfinal position.
In other words, aspirated sounds will be pronounced asunaspirated sounds in final position, and as a result, aspirated soundswill be perceived as unaspirated sounds in the word final position.In final position my results indicate that aspirated consonants arerecognized more than unaspirated ones.
On the contrary, unaspiratedconsonants are mistaken more frequently.5 Kim's explanation of aspirations differs from Lisker and Abramson in terms of un-derlying control mechanism.
Kim agrees that aspiration is laryngeally controlled.
Butwhat is controlled by the laryngeal muscles in the case of aspiration is not the timing ofglottal closing (Lisker and Abramson's view) but the size of the glottal opening.Manjari andJohn Ohala refute Chomsky and Halle's claim that heightened sub-glottalair pressure is a necessary characteristic of all aspirated consonants.
According to them,during h and upon the release of the aspirated stops there occurs a moment when thereis no oral constriction and when the glottal resistance is markedly lower than that ofnormal voicing.
Given such lowered resistance to the lung air, the air naturally rushes outin great volume, and consequently the air pressure just below the glottis is momentarilylowered.PERCEPTION AND ACQUISITION OF ASPIRATION 45My results get further support from another experiment whichI performed with native speakers of Hindi.
The results of that experi-ment showed the same directions.The analysis of my results in final position raises two questions:1) Why are aspirated (voiced and unvoiced) stops recognized morethan unaspirated stops by the English speakers, while these soundsdon't exist in English in final position?
2) Why are unaspirated conso-nants confused more although such sounds are present in English?The answer to the first question is that in the pronunciation of aspi-rated consonants of Hindi a sort of strong final release is present whichhelps English speakers to perceive aspirated consonants more accuratelyin final position.As for question 2, two possibilities can be presented as an answer.
1)The tmaspirated consonants in word-final position are released, and therelease causes the English speakers to interpret them as aspirated.
2) Thenature of pronunciation (of native speakers) can be responsible for theperceptual confusion of those consonants which are common to bothHindi and English.
W. J.
BLACK and S. SINGH'S (1966) experimentshows that when a set of data which included the identical sounds oflanguages was presented by native speakers to other native speakersand to non-native speakers, the confusion in the latter case was relative-ly high.
It seems that the nature of pronunciation is responsible forthe perceptual confusion of identical sounds.In my results, I noticed certain exceptions.
Interestingly enough, Ifound similar exceptions in experiments with native speakers.
Thisshows that these exceptions eem to be related with some underlyingphenomenon which is operating not only in the case of native speakersof English but also in the case of native speakers of Hindi.Below, I will discuss the exceptions and will propose some explana-tions.
(1) In the case of unvoiced unaspirated consonants the onlyexception was present in the retroflex consonant in medial position,i.e.
T is less confused in medial position.
However, it is negligible.
(2) The exceptions, in the case of voiced aspirated consonants,occur in the retroflex and velar consonants.
In initial and medial po-sitions, DH is less confused and gh in the initial position is less mistakentoo, while other voiced aspirated consonants are more confused in thesetwo positions.Now two questions arise: 1) Is this distinction parallel to the distinc-tion which the native speakers of Hindi maintain?
2) Can they maintain46 T~J K. BHATIAthis distinction because of a relative strength of aspiration present insuch unaspirated and aspirated consonants?It seems that English speakers maintain the latter type of distinction.The retroflex are considered to be \[+ tense\] and velars, because oftheir \[+ back\]ness inherit some aspiration.There is another exception in final position.
In final position allvoiced aspirates are recognized more than voiced unaspirates.
But ghis an exception.Velar voiced aspirated consonant gh should not be mistaken morethan its unaspirated counter-part, because of the following reasons:First, it carries a final release since it is an aspirated consonant.
Second,it has a relatively higher degree of aspiration than dental, bilabial andpalatal consonants.
At this point it appears to me that either voicedaspirated consonant gh behaves like unaspirated in final position andloses its final release as well as higher degree of aspiration simultaneously(further esearch with acoustic instruments i  needed to support his);or this exception points towards a psychological process of " over-compensation " which is going on in the subject's mind, i.e.
Englishspeakers, like the native speakers of Hindi, realize that aspiration isthe most characteristic phonological feature of Hindi.
That is why theysometimes substitute aspirated sounds for unaspirated and, as a result,we may get exceptions in cases uch as gh.
The shortcomings of thisproposal can be easily noticed since the question arises why the phenom-enon of " overcompensation " fails to operate upon other segments.Similarly, the first hypothesis can be questioned on the ground thatif all other unvoiced aspirated consonants as well as voiced aspiratedconsonants maintain their own identity (i.e.
1) final release; 2) final-release and relatively high degree of aspiration, respectively) then whydoes only gh lose it in the final position?
Instrument measurements areneeded to answer this question.4.0.
Comparison fthis Investigation with Gandhi's and Jaggi's Research.Gandhi's and Jaggi's investigation of Hindi consonants also showstwo results with regard to aspiration.
First, in all the positions aspiratesare mistaken more than unaspirates by English speakers.
Second,unaspirates are substituted for aspirated sounds.My results how disagreement with their results in the final positiononly, since my results how that he intelligibility of aspirated consonantsis more than unaspirated, with the exception of gh in final position.PERCEPTION AND ACQUISITION OF ASPIRATION 47My results completely agree with their second finding.
The dis-agreement in the final position can be caused because of several reas-ons: First, in their study aspiration is not the focus; thus, their resultshave been determined on the basis of a very restricted amount of data.Second, from their experiment i  is not clear which kind of data wasused to perform such an experiment.
Third, such disagreement can hap-pen because of their inaccurate r cording and listening conditions.
Lastly,it may depend on the language training of the subject.It was not mentioned in their study whether the second syllablewas stressed in the middle position or not.
In such a situation, it is hardto conclude whether my results agree or disagree with their findings.5.0.
Summary.The following conclusions can be drawn from the above discussion.First, unvoiced unaspirated consonants are more confused than unvoi-ced aspirated consonants in all positions.
Second, voiced aspirated con-sonants behave differently: 1) in initial and medial position; and 2) infinal position.
In initial and medial position they are mistaken morewhile they are better ecognized in final position.
Third, the confusionoccurred primarily between the consonant classes which can be distin-guished by a single feature, i.e., either by aspiration or by voicing.Fourth, unaspirated segments were more frequently confused thanaspirated ones.
\ [~ voicing 1 has the lowest rank, i.e.
the least con- aspiratiowfusion took place in the perception of these segments.
Fifth, exceptionsare present only in the retroflex or velar series.
In such consonants(voiced) the degree of aspiration present is relatively high.
It seems thatvoiced unaspirated consonants of velar and retroflex series possess ahnostequal amounts of aspiration which is present in palatal, dental, and bi-labial aspirated (voiced) consonants, and that aspirated consonants ofvelar and retroflex series preserve higher degree of aspiration than theaspirates of the palatal, dental or bilabial series.
This is a highly tentativeconclusion since it lacks empirical support.
Sixth, after undergoing anintensive Hindi instruction of a semester, motivated students can de-velop perceptual cues for aspiration.
They can hear aspiration in morethan 50 ?/o of the cases.
Lastly, the rate of confusion in the palatal seriesis much higher than the rate of confusion which takes place in otherseries.REFERENCESR.
AHMAD, S. AGRAWAL, SignificantFeatures in the Perception of \[Hindi\]Consonants, in ~J.
Acoust.
Soc.
Amer.
~),x~v (1969) 3, pp.
758-63.W.J .
B~ACX, S. SINCH, Study of Twenty-six Intervocalic Consonants as Spokenand Recognized by Four LanguageGroups, in ~J.
Acoust.
Soc.
Amcr.
~),xxxIx (1966), pp.
372-87.D.
P. GANDHI, S. JAGGI, Perceptual In-terference and Hierarchy of Difficulties,in ~ Indian Linguistics ~, xxxlI (1971).J.
GUPTA, S. AGRAWAL, R. AHMaD, Per-ception of \[Hindi\] Consonants in ClippedSpeech, in ~J.
Acoust.
Soc.
Amer.
~,XLV (1969) 3, pp.
770-73.D.
JONES, An Outline of English Phonetics,New York, 1956.C.
W. KaM, A Theory of Aspiration, in~ Phonetica*, xxt (1970), pp.
107-116.L.
LISKER, A. ABRAMSON, Across-LanguageStudy of Voicing in Initial Stops: Acous-tical Measurements, in ~ Word ~, xx(1964), pp.
384-422.P.
E. NICELY, A. MILLER, An Analysis ofPerceptual Confusion Among Some Eng-lish Consonants, in ~J, Acoust.
Soc.Amer.~, xxva (1955), pp.
338-52.M.
OHALA, J. OHAtA, The Problem ofAspiration in Hindi Phonetics, in An-nual Bulletin N. 6, Research Instituteof Bogopedics and Phoniatrics, Uni-versity of Tokyo, 1972.R.
N. SRIVASTAV, Theory of Morphone-matics and Aspirated Phonemes cfHindi,in Studies in Hindi Linguistics, AIIS,New Delhi, 1968.
