GUSTAV LEUNBACHMORPHOLOGICAL ANALYSIS AS A STEP IN AUTOMATEDSYNTACTIC ANALYSIS OF A TEXTIntroduction.The general purpose of this study is to investigate the possibilityof an almost completely automated syntactic analysis of a given textof a known language.
This has in itself some theoretical linguistic in-terest, and to the extent hat it succeeds, it will save a large amount oflabour in relation to automated indexing and translation, etc..One step in this analysis is to count the occurrences of all word-forms of the text, not for statistical purposes, but for the purpose ofselecting a list of highly frequent word-forms for which the labourof adding syntactic information before the automated analysis is mostfruitful.This list contains some substance words for which the syntacticinformation mainly consists of assigning a word class; this helps theautomated analysis just because the words are frequent; they appear inmany periods of the text.But mostly the list contains tructural words (prepositions, pronouns,adverbs, auxiliary verbs, etc.
); without information on the syntacticfunction of these words it is usually impossible to analyse a text at all.Another step in the investigation - the one with which this paperdeals - is the automated utilization of the morphological informationcontained in the text: a search of the implicit information on wordclass and syntactic function which is given by the knowledge that twoor more word-forms are flexions of a common stem.The concept of a lemma.As indicated above, a lemma is defined as a group of two or moreword-forms of the text which morphologically may be flexed formsof a common word stem within one of the flexion paradigms included270 GUSTAV LE't,INBACHin the analysis (most so-called irregular paradigms being excluded astoo difficult to automate).The language in question is Danish, and a list of 25 paradigms andparadigm variants for that language is given as Table 1.12345678910111213141516171819202122232425E ES - S ET ETS ENE ENESE MS - S EN ENS MNE ENESE MS Z - Z S ET ETS ENE ENESE ES Z - Z S EN ENS ENE ENESE ES X - X S ET ETS ENE ENESE ES  X - X S EN ENS ENE ENESER.
ER`S - S ET ETS ER.NE ER.NMSER.
ER.S - S EN ENS MR.NM EkNMSER.
ER.S Z - Z S ET MTS ER.NE ER.NESER.
ER.S Z - Z S EN ENS MIKNE ER.NESElk ER.S X - X S ET ETS MRNE ER.NMSER ER`S X-  X S EN ENS ERNE ER`NESE ES - S ET ETS NE NESE ES - S EN ENS NE NESE ES ER.
EKS ET MTS MR.NE ER.NESE ES EIK ER`S EN ENS EI~NE EKNMSEDM EDES - S ET ETS ENDE ENDMSE ES ETE ETES ET ETS ElKE ES EDE EDES ET ETS ENDE ENDMSE ES EDE EDES ET ETS ENDE ENDESM ES T TS TE TES ENDE ENDESE ES X T X TS X TE X TES ENDE ENDESE MS ST EST EKE EKES ESTE ESTESM MS ST EST ERE EKES ESTE ESTESE ES ST EST ERE ER.ES ESTE ESTESR.MR.
-MR. X -ER.MR.
X -T -X T X -Z T Z -STE STESTABLE 125 PARADIGMS AND PARADIGM VAR.IANTS OF STANDAR.D DANISHTHE FIKST 16 AlKE NOMINAL  PARADIGMS, NOS.
17 TO 22 AlKEVERBAL, THE LAST THREE ADJECTIVAL.
THE ORDER.
OF ENDINGSWITHIN  EACH LINE HAS NO SIGNIFICANCE WHATEVER.XZX AND Z BEFORE ENDINGS INDICATE STEM MODIFICATIONSTHE STEM IS FOKMED BY DOUBLING THE LAST LETTER.
BEFOR.
THE ENDINGAN E BEFOR`E THE LAST LETTER.
BEFORE THE ENDING (FLUID E) IS DELETED ANDA POSSIBLE DOUBLE LETTER BEFORE THIS E IS DISSOLVED.The text has been read into a computer, giving each word-forman index number the ftrst time it occurred and storing in one file thetext represented byindex numbers and in another the word-forms.
Lem-matization was performed on this latter file by reading each wordMORPHOLOGICAL ANALYSIS 271backwards.
If the last letter was one which could form an ending ora part of an ending the preceding letter was also searched, etc..All cases of a possible stem and ending have been treated as putativestems.
To quote the extreme xample, a form XXSTES is treated asa putative stem in itself and as derived from the following putativestems: XXSTESS (this is the x-modification of Table 1, the doubleconsonant only appears before endings containing an e); XXSTS(the z-modification); XXST; XXS and XX.
The last three all occurin common Danish words; the three first do not, but this only meansthat another derivation from the same putative stem does not appearunless by a very rare coincidence.The putative stems are stored in a list, and each one is compared withall preceding until it is revealed as either one of them or a new one.It is essential for the practical maintenance of the analysis that the word-forms are sorted at least by fLrst letter and the comparison made onegroup at a time; actually the words were ordered nearly alphabeti-cally, but no general rule could be devised for stopping the search earlier.After the search has been completed, all putative stems which ap-pear only once are discarded.
Of the rest, only those are conservedwhere at least two endings belong to the same paradigm, that is tothe same one among the 25 lines of Table 1.
Finally, a file of the indexnumbers of all word-forms i loaded with information on every lemmathat each word-form belongs to and with which ending.
If the sameword-form belongs to more than one lemma, there is a conflict, seelater.The text is a short Western novel of about 41,000 words whichhave been sorted into slightly more than 5,000 word-forms.
Of these,about 2,950 have been marked as members of lemmas.However, this does not mean that useful syntactic information canbe derived for nearly 60 pct.
of the word-forms of the text.
Unlessthe lemma is a pure coincidence (homograph), between two unrela-ted words apart from some letters which may be flexion endings; thisis a problem of the same kind as ordinary homography is for any auto-mated text analysis), it indicates a semantic bond between its mem-bers, but the syntactic information depends on the set of endings con-tained in the lemma.In the following, lemmas will be divided into three main categories,unambiguous, ambiguous and conflicting.
So far, a complete analysishas been performed on the 323 lemmas formed by words with initialletters A-G, including 882 out of 1568 word-forms.272 GUSTAV LEUN'BACHUnambiguous lemmas.A lemma is called unambiguous if the endings of its members de-termine unambiguously which of the three word classes, noun, adjectiveand verb, the lemma may belong to.
Normally, this also means thatthe endings can only belong to one of the 25 paradigms of Table 1.Of the 323 lemmas formed with the initials A-G, 162 are classifiedas unambiguous.Nouns account for 79 lemmas.
Most of these contain the ending -en,the definitite article in singular for nouns of the common gender,which does not belong to any adjectival or verbal paradigm; severalcontain the plural definitite article.One lemma has 6 members; a computer-aided inspection has re-vealed this to be the word "bandit ", a very appropriate word forthis type of text, several of its forms have high frequency.
Two lemmashave each 5 members and seven have 4 each, but more than half haveonly 2 members.
With only two forms represented, the risk of a chancehomography is of course high.Adjectives account for 14 cases; they nearly all include the compara-tive ending -ere or the superlative -st which can be extended with -e or-es.
A 15th lemma was also by the computer classified as unambiguous-ly adjectival, but it contained only two forms with the endings -steand -stes, and as the example above of different borders between puta-tive stem and ending shows, either -s- or -st- may belong to the stem.
(Inspection showed the word actually to be a verb with a stem endingin -s.)Two of the fourteen lemmas have 4 members each and eight have 3.Verbs: 69 lemmas.
22 of these include the ending -o which in almostall verbal paradigms has the function of imperative which is unlikelyto occur so frequently.
Instead, the form with zero ending is probablyin most cases a noun of the same stem, but not represented in any ofthose forms which differ from verbal flexion endings, and thus notcausing a conflict between two lemmas.Two verbal lemmas have 6 members each (both including the du-bious imperative), one has 5 and ten have 4 (six of them including thezero form, the dubious imperative); almost half have only 2 members.If a lemma is by this definition unambiguous, and the set of endingscontained in it gives no reason to suspect its validity, the syntactic in-formation on each word-form is in most cases quite obvious.
WithMORPHOLOGICAL ANALYSIS 273nouns and adjectives, the forms ending in -s are of particular interest;they are possessive forms with function of adjectives, but with a pecu-liar distribution of articles.
In verbs the participles may form compositetenses (the present participle almost never) or may function as ad-jectives with restricted flexion patterns.Ambiguous lemmas.These 115 lemmas have none of the forms which are characteristicof either of the three word classes; all are short, 13 of them have 3members and the rest only 2.58 are classified as possibly nouns or verbs, but 37 of these containthe zero ending, mostly together with -et which may be either the de-finite article of a neuter noun or a past participle, or with -er whichmay be plural or present ense.
As the flexion-less form of a noun ismuch more frequent than the imperative of a verb, the large majorityof these words are certainly nouns.
It may be reasonable to classifythem together with some of the shorter nominal or verbal lemmas as"almost unambiguous ".Conflicting lemmas.The same word-form may be a member of more than one lemma,either with the same border between stem and ending or with a diffe-rent one.
In each of these cases, each lemma is followed through untilall word-forms interconnected directly or indirectly are summed up,and the whole complex is defined as one conflicting lemma.There are 46 conflicting lemmas in the part of the vocabulary in-vestigated, containing from 3 to 7 members, apart from one of 10members which on inspection proved to be a mixture of demonstra-tive pronouns.Most of the others can be explained either by a noun and a verbformed from the same root (occasionally also an adjective) or by homo-graphy between two unrelated words, each with some flexed formsrepresented.When both one or more of the shorter endings of a paradigm andone of the longer endings are present, one may with reasonable cer-tainty assess the word class and syntactic function of the longer form,18274 GUSTAV LEUNBACHeven if the shorter form may belong to more than one paradigm andno inference can be drawn on its word class.Danish compared to other languages.The same analysis performed on a text in English will be somewhateasier in computational work because of the fewer paradigms and fewerforms in each, but I expect he yield to be much less.
I would expecta lot of ambiguous lemmas (noun or verb), containing the zero formand the ending -s, some verbal emmas, containing -ed or -ing or both,and a few adjectival lemmas with comparative or superlative endings.A noun can only be identified by the endings -'s or -s', which I expectto be rare in most texts - and which can be found by more mechanicalmeans also.
Many verbal emmas would be expected to hide a nounof the same root.On the other hand, applied to a language with richer flexions thecomputational work involved in this analysis might get out of hand,and I am not sure that the yield would in all cases increase comparably.In German I expect many ambiguous lemmas to be found becauseseveral endings occur in paradigms of different classes.
French has thesame problem as English that nouns can hardly be identified by theirendings; moreover the boundary between regular and irregular para-digms is rather vague in written French, making it somewhat uncer-tain how many paradigms it pays to include in the automated analysis.Russian seems to me to offer somewhat better possibilities.
Thereare many verbal paradigms with various stem modifications which itmay be impossible to automate, but the forms of the present tense onone hand, and most other forms separately may make it possible toidentify a verb by two different stems.
The risk of finding ambiguouslemmas is small, though conflicting lemmas may occur.
And the spe-cific information on case which many nominal forms contain is oftenrelevant to the syntactis analysis, although it may be difficult to utilizeit in an automated manner.S.
Hellberg's analysis of Swedish.After the computational work for this paper had been completedmy attention was drawn to an article by S. HELLBV.RC: ComputerizedMORPHOLOGICAL ANALYSIS 275Lemmatization without the Use of a Dictionary, in ~ Computers and theHumanities )), VI (1972) 4, pp.
209-212.
The following discussion ofhis method is built mainly on a stencilled report in Swedish mentionedin a footnote to the article.Hellberg does not investigate all possible ways of dividing oneword-form into stem and ending, but investigates for two word-formsat a time whether they can be the same stem with two flexion endingswithin the same paradigm.This procedure depends heavily on a complete alphabetization fall word-forms.
In the cases where Swedish as the same stem modi-fications that my program takes into account, Hellberg has to definethe stem as the shortest part of the word which is identical in all flexedforms; this increases the number of different endings, and the definitionof a stem comes rather far from the ordinary grammatical concept,while mine corresponds rather closely to it.Hellberg's method may be faster than mine in computation time,but I believe that he runs a greater isk of missing lemmas which areactually present han I; the concept of a conflicting lemma does notappear in his system, instead he discusses the frequency of wrong lem-mafizations.Praaical results.Of a vocabulary of slightly above 5,000 word-forms in a novel ofabout 41,000 words, nearly 60 pct have proved to be members of lem-mas, that is sets of two or more word-forms which may be flexionsof the same stem within one of the regular paradigms.An inspection of those lemmas which are formed by words withinitials A-G shows that of the word-forms contained in them, about60 Pct can with reasonable certainty be assigned to a definite wordclass, about half as nouns, somewhat less as verbs, and a few as adjectives.The rest cannot be thus assigned, either because all the endings ofthe lemma may belong to paradigms of different word classes, or be-cause the same word-form belongs to lemmas of different paradigms,thus indicating the possibility of a homograph.Of the endings pertaining to a given paradigm, some convey adefinitite syntactic function while others do not.These figures summarize the yield of the analysis as regards itsfunction as a step in an automated syntactic analysis of the text.276 GUSTAV LEUNBACHA different summarization of the results of the analysis, which hassome general interest, concerns the distribution of lemmas by length.The part of the lemmas investigated in detail show three lemmas of6 members and three of 5 members as the longest.Which words occur in so many flexions depends of course on thecontent of the text, but the numerical structure I suppose to be charac-teristic of a much wider range of self-contained texts; if the investiga-tion is carried out on the vocabularies of different exts, an interestingby-product may be the study of the stability of this structure.One may be interested in a different ype of statistical analysis,namely of the frequencies of various grammatical categories, for in-stance, the frequencies of singular and plural forms of nouns, of presentand past tense.
For this purpose, however, the analysis performed hereis not sufficient, not even combined with the frequency count of allword-forms mentioned in the introduction: firstly, the analysis express-ly only recognizes a flexion ending if at least two different endingsto the same stem occur; that is, the frequency of e.g.
plural forms maybe counted only for those nouns which are represented in at least twoforms.
Secondly, in the Danish nominal paradigms not all forms arewith certainty identifiable as either singular or plural, and in the regularverbal paradigms the simple past is always the same form as a parti-ciple which is used in an adjectival function, and not in compositetenses.
(For the purpose of test parsing, the latter ambiguity is not a funda-mental obstacle; whenever such a form is encountered two possibilitiesmust be left open, and one must hope that other words of the periodwill close one possibility).
