GORDON i~.
WOODREF INEMENTS IN TABULAR.
MODELS OF VAR.IATIONIN REGIONAL AMER`ICAN ENGLISH *I. INTRODUCTIONModels of the geography of American regional English have beengreatly influenced by the work of researchers for the proposed LinguisticAtlas of the United States and Canada.
Among the representative pub-lications one should note H. KtnlATH'S A Word Geography of the EasternUnited States (1949) and E. B. ATWOOD'S The Regional Vocabulary ofTexas (1962), particularly for their use of tables which place selectedwords in a designated locality and give an indication of relative abun-dance there.
It is these two works which set the pattern for the presentcomputer assisted analysis of the presence of 1,000 regional words inthe southern United States.
Thus there are resemblances among thesemodels, but there is an essential difference also in that the newer modeladvances claims about relationships among word choices and thus isimplicationally more dynamic than are its predecessors.2.
FIRST STAGES IN MODEL FORMATIONThe present study began in the 1940's when the computer wasfirst being praised as the machine for sorting vast bodies of data.
Atthat time the Linguistic Atlas project had not gone forward in manyparts of the South, but it had produced a printed questionnaire whichasked persons to make choices among synonyms.
Here were toolswhich could be used together as a means of discovering ross featuresof vocabulary distribution within the relatively unexplored states ofTennessee, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Arkansas andOklahoma.
Georgia was included as an eastern anchor, even thoughthe state had been surveyed in part for the Atlas (R`.
I. McDAVID,* This study was supported in part by Southern Illinois University, Edwardsville.344 GORDON R. WOOD1958).
Texas was excluded because Atwood's urvey was almost readyfor publication at that time.When the questionnaires were returned, many were rejected be-cause the answerer's biography showed that he did not meet certainstandards.
From the chosen questionnaires the coded data was trans-ferred to punch cards.
There were codes for the person's age, sex, educa-tion, race, place of birth and longest residence, places of birth and res-idence of his parents and grandparents; occupation was not codedsimply because of the vast range of identification eeded.
Then theresponse to each set of synonyms was entered.
If, for instance, in item125, VEHICLE FOR A SMALL BABY, the synonym baby cab hadbeen selected from the synonym set baby buggy, baby cab, baby carriage,baby coach, then it would be punched as the next entry on the cardafter the biographical data.The original intention was that the computer would sort the datafirst under age, then under education, and then under sex.
For eachsort the computer would print a county by county table showing theactual number of local responses according to a selected heading.
WhereH.
KURATrI'S tables (1949, p. 12) showed "regular " or "fairly com-mon " or "rare " in Ohio, New York State, and New England respec-tively, the computer list would show "0"  or "2"  or some othernumber for baby cab in Hamilton County, Tennessee, and so througheach county for each word of the synonym set.In order to make some comparison with Atwood's tabulation ofresponses according to age, the first sort of all data was by three agegroups - those above seventy, those between thirty and seventy, andthose below thirty.
A county by county computer listing of 1,000 wordsas chosen by 1,000 people is enormous.
Its very mass made impossiblethe publication of such a document even for those dialectologists whomight want to look at the raw data in its most detailed form.
A byprod-uct, hand drawn maps made by plotting the presence of selected words,permitted a redefining of the technical terms " Midland " and " South-ern " dialect as they apply to this region (H. KtraATa, 1949;: G. 1L.WOOD, 1963, 197t).3.
REFINEMENTS FOR BOOK PUBLICATIONThe computer was next instructed to make total counts of all choicesof each synonym within four main divisions of the respective states asTABULAR MODELS OF VARIATION IN REGIONAL AMERICAN ENGLISH 345well as for the state itself, and for the entire eight state region.
Thegrand total for each word in the questionnaire was machine sortedaccording to increasing numerical frequency of response.
This computerprintout became the source of a table photocopied and placed in a book(G. R.. WOOD, 1971, pp.
297 ff.).
As a table, it seems at first glance tosay what those in Kurath and Atwood also say: here is a regional wordcount.
It shows that roughly 1,000 persons chose or rejected certainwords and that their choices were somewhat mixed with regard tothe rest of the vocabulary.
Actually the claim 'is different.
This is amodel of a whole vocabulary as a closed system in which for an entireregion the place of each synonym within the system is fixed at a givenpoint on the scale.
Obviously a search at a different ime or with adifferent questionnaire or among different people would shift the en-tries, but it would not alter the systemic design.
No such orderedconclusions can be gained from the Kurath and Atwood models incethe Linguistic Atlas interview procedure has no way of testing aninformant for his range of synonyms.Given these gross counts, the next stage was to design a table thatwould display the presence or absence of each word in a smaller geog-raphic setting.
It became apparent hat statements of percentageswould be more informative than would be the presence of raw numbers.Hence a model emerged which listed all of the words in a synonymset and placed them proportionately in each of the eight states.
It com-bined the features of locality found in the Kurath model with the fea-tures of relativity in the Atwood one, but it excluded the gradations byage.
Furthermore, it refined the statement of relationships by breakingthe data into four sub-patterns which answered these questions: Whatare the relationships in choice of the same word in a section of adjacentstates uch as those situated east of the Mississippi?
Within any state andits major subdivisions what is the relationship of a given response tothe largest number of possible responses there?
Next, if the statewideresponse is regularly set at 100 per cent, what are the relationshipsbetween the responses in the north to those in the south, or in the eastto those in the west?
And finally, in each locality what are the relativepreferences for each member of the synonym set?The computer printout of these percentile calculations became thephotocopied text of a book (G. R.. WOOD, 1971, pp.
64 ft.).
An extractfrom one will suggest the format.
The synonyms given in the question-naire for the concept "a woman who helps at childbirth" were god-mother, granny, granny woman, and midwife.
Consider two choices within346 GORDON R. WOODthe states of Tennessee and Georgia, and their western-eastern (W E)northern-southern (N S) halves.
In the example below, the left columnstresses the local relative importance of each word; the state (ST) per-centage is not printed but is set at 100 per cent.
The right hand columnshows the relative preference among synonyms within the full set.GRANNY WOMANMID WIFETENNESSEE GEORGIAW 31 4 N 53 6E 69 10 S 47 6ST 14 12W 45 30 N 63 45E 55 37 S 37 27ST 68 71For the word geography of the United States, the refinement call-ed a closed model here has certain advantages.
The text of the question-naire can and should include standard words such as midwife alongsidethose synonyms which have been identified as having regional imits,words like godmother, a standard word with a special regional meaning,and granny woman, an entirely regional word.
The computations, then,show among other things that the regional word and the standardword considered by themselves have variations in regional preference.It is evident that east Tennessee has stronger preference for grannywoman and midwife than does west Tennessee; a similar pattern of majorpreferences appears in north Georgia (53 and 63 per cent versus 47 and37 per cent in the tabular extract given above).
Obviously the calcu-lations confirm that among synonyms the general word is greatly pre-ferred over a more regional one.
In addition they will show what hadnot been formally identified up to the time of calculation: generalwords have variations in regional preference as well.
The degree ofvariation leads to the idea that the dialectology of American Englishmust consider this characteristic along with the more easily identifiedcharacteristics such as the presence of distinctively local words suchas granny woman.KEFEILENCESE.
B. ATWOOD, The Regional Vocabularyof Texas, Austin, 1962.H.
KURATH, A Word Geography of theEastern United States, Ann Arbor, 1949.tL.
I. McDAwD Jr., American EnglishDialects, and (with Vn~gINIA M?-DAvn~) Appendix: Maps, in W. Nri-son FaANCIS, The Structure of Amer-ican English, New York, 1958.G.
1L.
WOOD, Dialect Contours in theSouthern States, in,  American Speech ,,xxxvla (1963), pp.
243-56.G.
IL.
WOOD, Vocabulary Change: AStudy of Regional Words in Eight of theSouthern States, Carbondale and Ed-Wardsville, 1971.
