P. CASTROGIOVANNI* - L. MORETTI - G. DE LISIO ~rVERBAL BEHAVIOUR.
OF THE PSYCHOTICAND PSYCHONEUROTIC PATIENTS:AN APPROACH ACCORDING TO THE METHODOLOGYOF COMPUTATIONAL LINGUISTICSThe theoretical premise behind our investigation is based on theview, held by many authors, that not only the meaning but the structureof language itself is in some way the expression of the psychologicalcharacteristics of the person speaking.With this theory in mind we thought it would be interesting tocheck whether this supposed connection between verbal expression andpersonality is also confirmed by results of projective tests.
We choseto use t~orschach test because the ten cards form a highly standardizedstimulus and because, at the same time, the cards are indefinite and havelittle effect on the subject's verbal expression.The aim we set ourselves was to study the connection betweenlinguistic expression and the characteristics of personality, in orderto find out whether the morphological structure of the language usedin the responses to the test might provide further information to addto that obtained by traditional signs.
As is well known, the subjects'way of expressing themselves when confronted with each card oftendiffer greatly even when their responses are given the same signs inthe psychogram.METHODWe do not intend to go into details here about the method used, orthe principles of selection of the subjects or the characteristics of the* Istituto di Psichiatria dell'Universit~t di Pisa (Dir.
Prof. P. Sarteschi).72 1,.
CASTROGIOVANNI- L. MORETTI- G. DE LISIOsample (already reported in a previous paper).1 The essential data is asfollows.The sample is made up of 119 subjects, 32 females patients at thePsychiatric Clinic, University of Pisa (15 schizophrenics, 14 neurot-ics and 3 classified as "various ") and 87 relatives (41 relatives belong-ing to the schizophrenics, 36 to the neurotics and 10 to "various ").The responses to the Rorschach test were recorded on tape andthen typed out, before being transcribed into perforated computer cards.The cards were then run through a computer which provided an alpha-betical list of all the words used by the 119 subjects.
Below each wordwas given the context in which each word appeared.At this initial phase of our research we decided to limit our investi-gation to the analysis of traditional grammatical categories or partsof speech (substantives, adjectives, adverbs, verbs, pronouns, articles,prepositions, conjunctions, interjections).
However in order to go deeperin our analysis of language, we further split these grammatical cate-gories into sub-divisions, taking gender (masculine and feminine) andnumber (singular and plural) of the parts of speech into consideration too.Therefore the lemma and the code number indicating the corres-ponding grammatical categories and sub-categories were transcribedopposite ach word in the list drawn up by the computer.The computer calculated the number of words for each grammaticalcategory and the respective percentages in relation to the total numberof words spoken for each card, so that a summarizing table was obtai-ned for each subject.Then the total values for each category and sub-category for eachsubject were worked and finally for the various groups: schizophrenics,neurotics, various and the respective relatives.Being well aware of the arbitrariness of attempting to apply tradi-tional statistics tests to language, we deliberately decided not to try tomake a statistical analysis at the initial stage of our examination ofthe data.
We should be able to do this later, at the end of our analysis,when the results themselves might have suggested which of the manystatistical tests and elaborations that might be borrowed from statisti-cal linguistics would prove most suitable.1 1 ).
CASTROGIOVANNI, S. A. CERaI, G. MAI~PBI, P. J. PASQUINUCCI, G. TORRIGIANI,A.
ZAMI'OLLI, Analisi llnguistica delle risposte al test di Rorschach di schizofrenici e neuroticie dei rispettivifamiliari.
I : Metodologia e priml risultatl di analisi condotta mediante calcolatorielettronki, in <~ Neopsichiatria ~), XXXlV (1968), p. 810.VERBAL BEHAVIOUR OF PSYCHOTIC AND PSYCHONEUROTIC PATIENTS 73CONCLUSIONSThe findings obtained so far in this first approach to the problemsuggest some interesting conclusions:1.
The grammatical profile is similar in the four groups consid-ered.
Grammatical structure therefore represents he flame tmderlyingthe variability of language behaviour and as such has a certain staticcharacteristic.2.
The schizophrenic group shows certain specific aspects inrespect o the other three groups: reduced number of words: higherpercentages of substantives and articles; higher conceptual/articulatory,substantive/adjective, substantive/verb ratio, lower verb/adjective ratio.These linguistic characteristics of schizophrenic patients are correlatedwit hthe autistic attitude of these subjects towards the test of Rorschach.
23.
The distribution of the grammatical categories for each cardsuggests the hypothesis that the type of stimulus (in this case the tencards) does not alone determine substantial variations in the morpho-logical structure of speech.
An exception is constituted by those ca-tegories (substantives, articles, adjectives) more closely dependent onthe experimental situation in which the subject is asked to representsomething.In a following phase of the study it was attempted to verify, at amicro and macrolinguistic level, whether, in the same patient, signif-icant linguistic variations during the evolution of a psychotic episodewere present.In one case of a maniac-depressive psychosis, maniac type, 5 samplesof spontaneous speech, corresponding to various tages in the evolutionof the psychopathological picture, were taken.This material was examined at a phonematic, lexical, morpholog-gical, syntactic level in order to show whether there are variations oflinguistic structures correlated with the variations of the symptomatol-ogy.This material is still in course of elaboration.The results are reported in detail on the following research: P. CASTROGIOVABINI,A.
T~LAr~A, Pdmi risultatl dl un'anallsi statistica morfologica e lessicale delle risposte al testdi Rorschach nelta prospettiva di uno studio dei rapporti fra psicopatologia e linguaggio, in A.ZAMPOLLI (ed.
), Linguistica matematica e calcolatori, Firenze, 1973.
