NICOLETTA CALZOLARI- LAURA PECCHIA- ANTONIO ZAMPOLLI*WORKING ON THE ITALIAN MACHINE DICTIONARY:A SEMANTIC APPROACH1.
GENERAL FRAMEWORK1.1.
Foreword.The work described by the two co-authors of this article is pre-sented with a double objective: apart from giving specific details ona particular project they also wished to provide a concrete xampleof the type of research which has been made possible by the ItalianMachine Dictionary (DMI).The DMI is, in fact, one of the principal projects of the LinguisticsDivision (DL) of CNUCE.
Other articles in the first volume of the Pro-ceedings also refer to the DMI.
1 In this introduction I intend to indicatebriefly how the DMI project, and, in particular, how the research de-scribed in the article has been inserted into the framework of the wholecomplex of activities of the DL and into our general conception oflinguistic data processing (LDV).As I have already stated in my introduction to these Proceedings, 2it is my conviction that, at this moment, special attention shouldbe taken in order to promote, both on the theoretical nd on the practicallevel, systematic and ordered interaction among the many differentLPD activities.
In particular, this cooperation should be realized betweenthose activities which focus on the construction of theoretical modelsand those focussing on the processing of large corpora of linguisticdata.
The activity of the DL, especially in recent years, has been in-creasingly directed towards this goal.
* A. Zampolli isthe author of Part.
1., N. Calzolari and L. Pecchia re the authorsof Part 2.1 See Vol.
I, 1, pp.
257-262 and 297-301.See Vol.
I, 1, pp.
xx-xxa.50 NICOLETTA CALZOLARI- LAURA PECCHIA- ANTONIO ZAMPOLLI1.2.
Activities of the Linguistics Division (Dr~).For approximatdy 10 years all, or almost all, of the research projectsin the different fields of the linguistic data processing in Italy havebeen worked out with the collaboration of the DL in the computationalside of their work.3In the field of lexicography, large corpora of texts have been pro-cessed in order to produce the lexical archives necessary to constructextensive historical language dictionaries (see, for example, the Tesorodella lingua italiana delle origini of the Accademia della Crusca), or diction-aries of " languages for special purposes" (e.g.
the Dizionario Giu-ridico of the Istituto per la Documentazione Giuridica).
4In both modern and classical philological research, the computeris now used with increasing frequency in Italy in order to automatethe customary and traditionally time consuming task of indexing textsand producing concordances from them (e.g.
the project for the analysisof the corpus of Grammatici Latini, ed.
Keil), 5 and also for a numberof more specific, complex operations, such as the automatic om-parison of different editions of the same text (e.g.
the project for the' contrastive concordances' of Orlando Furioso of L. Ariosto).
6Literary criticism and the history of literature are also beginningto make use of similar procedures, employing, in particular, statisticala For a more detailed escription and the relative bibliography see ZAMPOLLr, 1973a,1973b, 1977a.
It is necessary to emphasize an important consequence of this fact.
Firstly,almost all the projects underway in Italy in this sector adopt the standards introducedby the Dr.
In addition, an automatic library containing over 5000 texts in more than20 languages has been established.
This archive may be processed with general-purposestandardized programs because all the texts have been stored using the same scientificand technical criteria.
Thus it is possible to perform some linguistic research operationswhich would otherwise be impossible.
For example, one of our projects aims at con-structing a new model of the quantitative aspects of the language, on the basis of thedata provided by this archive.
The earlier models have been falsified by the new quan-titative data produced by the increasing number of text-processing projects underwayin different countries.
As a first step, we aim at identifying those linguistic facts whichhave a stable frequency in the texts of a language, those which have a frequency whichis stable only within certain subsets of a language (literary genres, single authors, par-ticular themes, etc.
), those whose frequency does not show appreciable regularity.
Ina second stage, an attempt will be made to construct and verify quantitative models todescribe the regularities actually found and to identify the contextual factors connectedwith such regularities.See A. DuRo (1973), C. CIAMPI (1973) and F. DIMITRESCU (1973).5 See GmLLI and others (1978).8 See SEgRE-ZAMPOLLI (1974).THE ITALIAN MACHINE DICTIONARY: A SEMANTIC APPROACH 51processing as an auxiliary tool in the study of the style of individualauthors, schools, or literary genres.
7 Linguistic statistics is also adoptedin psycho-linguistic studies, for example to "measure" the linguisticalterations introduced by certain nosological categories.SA combination of statistical processing and algorithms of the "pat-tern recognition" type are used in a heuristic way on traditional oraltexts to identify clauses, formulae, and, in general, the various elementsof the popular repertory.9In all the above quoted types of projects, the electronic data pro-cessing essentially aims at organizing, in computer storage or in printedform, all the linguistic units of a certain level (words, syntagms,syntactical structures, etc.)
occurring in a text, in order to enablea more efficient, rapid and economic retrieval of them.
In other words,the processing basically consists in the following types of operations:to input, store, manipulate t xts of different kinds (which may be con-sidered as facts of la parole); to recognize and explicitly represent inthe text the occurrence of linguistic units (phonemes, lemmas, a~xes,syntagms, syntactical types, etc.
: these units may be considered tobe at the level of la langue); to execute some canonical operations (re-trieval, ordering, counting, comparing, etc.)
on such units, in batchor conversational form.We also cooperate with some projects in the field of full-textinformation retrieval, which also uses lexicographical-type processingfor documentary purposes, mainly on juridical and historical texts.All the above mentioned activities make use of closely inter-relatedprocedures which the DI~ has developed and put into operation withthe collaboration of various Italian Universities and CNR Institutes.More exactly, it could be said that the DL has realized, or is in theprocess of realizing, acertain umber of basic processing "components"and that each of the procedures so far developed consists in the con-catenation of some of these components.The functions of each of these components are well-known withinthe I~DP environment: he acquisition of texts in machine readableform; the production of the typical results of lexical analysis (differenttypes of concordances, context-cards, etc.
); the representation f thelarge variety of characters typical of the I.Dr; morphological nalysesSee A. ZAMPOLLI (1975).s Sec CASTROGIOVANNI (1973).9 See CnmsE (1973).52 NICOLETTA CALZOLARI-LAURA \]?ECCHIA- ANTONIO ZAMPOLLIand consultation of Machine Dictionaries (DMS); syntactical parsers;phonological transcription; etc.I feel that the following three characteristics of these componentsshould be emphasized.a) They are conceived so as to be, as far as possible, generalized(i.e.
applicable to all the texts processed at the Dr, whatsoever theirnature, language, or the purpose of the processing), 1?
flexible (theuser can activate, within the set of rules which constitute the " al-gorithmic linguistic knowledge" of the program, those rules whichbest respond to his particular needs), 11 and modular (the componentsmust be inter-compatible and open to the inclusion of any eventualnew components: the inter-compatibility is ensured by exchange-interfaces between the various components; these interfaces consistin a formalism which provides structures, organizations and codesfor the representation of linguistic units both at the text and at thelinguistic system level).b) These components may be used - at least in principle - withthe same basic functions both in lexicographical-philological type ap-plications and in translation, documentation, question-answering, etc.
~x0 For example, the component proposed for the acquisition of texts in machinereadable form performs the following functions: accepts, as input, texts in any naturallanguage (as long as they can be transcribed alphabetically) of any period, or literaryform or genre (scientific texts, recorded ialogs, protocols, interviews, novels, inventories,etc.
); stores the texts on auxiliary memory; produces listings which reproduce the textas near as possible to its original form; supplies text editing facilities for checking andcorrection of eventual errors.
At the basis of this component is an encoding system whichis designed to represent all the different graphemes and graphic features which can appearin printed texts or can be inserted in them in the preediting stage.xx For example, the context of a word can be constructed and delimited by acti-vating and ordering diversely a suitably chosen subset of the available rules from a gen-eral contextualisation algorithm (see ZAMPOLLI, 1971): to coincide the context with astructural unit (verse, strophe, etc.
); to delimit the context exclusively on the basis ofthe punctuation immediately preceding or following it; to assign a specific portion ofthe syntactic structure as context, etc.x~ In particular, at the beginning of the 60s, attempts were made to classify the dif-ferent systems for LDP according to the so-called ' depth-parameter ' of the linguisticlevel of operation.
Such classifications selected a certain "depth"  level along this pa-rameter, and drew in correspondence to this level the demarcation line between theuses of the computer in linguistics which merit the name computational linguistics (CL)and those which do not.Our viewpoint is different.
All computational systems functioning for linguisticresearches or which operate on linguistic data belong to the CL.
Besides, at least in prin-ciple, the majority of those systems, independently from the fact that they are consideredeither below or above an established demarcation line, have a number of componentsTHE ITALIAN MACHINE DICTIONARY: A SEMANTIC APPROACH 53c) They are, as far as possible, the result of  studies which areboth research and operationally oriented.1.3.
The Italian Machine Dictionary (DMI).The DMI has also been realized in accordance with these criteria.It has been conceived and is used as a means for semi-automatic lem-matisation, i.e.
for the recognition of the occurrences of the variousunits of the Italian lexical system within a text.
It is used in lexicogra-phical, statistical, philological text processing and is utilized in full-text information retrieval systems in order to identify in the documentsall the different forms which belong to the same lemma of a specificform appearing in the " question " asked by the user.
It will be usedto associate to the words from a text the information requested bysyntactical and semantical parsers (morpho-syntactical categories, syn-tactical "valences ", semantical markers, etc.).
18In the lemmatisation stage, the DMI can be adapted by the user toobtain lexical analyses at different levels of complexity.
We think ofthe definitions of a lexical unit (lemma) as a set of pertinent features(morphological.
syntactical, graphical, etc.).
Different inflected formsin common.
For example, a procedure for lexical analysis necessitates: the acquisitionin machine readable form and the computer printing of a variety of texts and gra-phemes; a morphological nalyzer and the consultation of a DM for semiautomatic lem-matization; syntactic and semantic parsers for homograph disambiguation.
An auto-matic translation system requires all these features (in addition to the transfer andgeneration components).13 Of course, we have considered whether it would be possible and convenient tocompile a DM without having first defined in detail the components which will usethe linguistic information contained in it.
As an example, let us consider the choice andthe formalization of grammatical information (morpho-syntactical tegories, valences,specification of possible constructs, etc.)
to be coded in the dictionary as " input" of asyntactic parser.
Obviously, this depends on the grammatical model and the strategyused by the parser.
This does not necessarily mean, however, that once a DM has beencompiled with specifically chosen grammatical information, it is necessary to substitutethe grammatical part of the DM if the grammatical model should change.
Althoughthere are a number of different opinions on this important point, our experience hassuggested that, eventually, it will be necessary to extend and complete the already ex-isting information rather than substituting it.
In the majority of cases, independentlyof the definition of their theoretical status, the basic syntactical properties of a lexicalunit may be formulated in a neutral way with respect o the model and systems whichuse them.
This affirmation can be largely verified, at least for models within the same" scientific paradigm ", e.g.
the generative-transformational ones.
Nevertheless, thereis perhaps enough evidence to assert hat the basic information, at the morpho-syntacticallevel, is still, to a large extent, valid, even when considering other paradigms uch asthe so-called "artificial intelligence paradigm ".54 NICOLETTA CALZOLARI- LAURA PECCHIA- ANTONIO ZAMPOLLIof a text are considered to belong to the same lemma if and only ifthey have in common all the pertinent features which identify a lemma,distinguishing it from all other lemmas.
We have constructed an in-ventory of features which may be used in the definition of a lexicalunit.
Such an inventory is based upon a survey of the features usedboth in lexicographic practice and in linguistic theories.
Each entryof the DMI is associated with the set of all the possible features of theinventory which may be used in its definition.
The user is allowedto disactivate those features which he does not wish to utilize: forexample, the differences between nominal and verbal use of participlesor those between adjectival pronouns and pronouns, etc.
Obviously,if some distinctions are neutralized, the number of lexical units whichconstitute the DMI, as defined by the user, and very often the numberof possible homographs, are reduced.
In other words, if we considerthe DMI a concrete representation f the Italian lexical system, in whichthe lexical units are defined using all the features proposed by the dif-ferent lexicological and lexicographical traditions, the user can modifythe structure of this system and the inventory of its lexical units inaccordance with his specific linguistic requirements (Zampolli, 1973a).In this perspective, the DMI is used not only as a tool for text proces-sing but also as an object of studies and research in itself.While in studies at the level of la parole the object is given immedi-ately for the r~DV in the form of corpora of texts, the object in studieson la langue must be specifically constructed.
An example which canbe given is the first step in a research on the functional load of thephonological oppositions of a phonematic system.
This step consistsin the inventory of the minimal pairs existing in the lexicon for eachopposition and therefore it presupposes the existence of an inventoryof all the different forms of the studied language in phonological tran-scription.
The burden of creating an inventory of this type and dimension,and the complexity of the operations required in order to discoverand count all the minimal pairs are such that all those tasks are im-possible without a computer.
Another example could be a study onthe "rendement" of the different suffmes, which requires an inventoryof all the words in which each suffLx appears.In order to make research work of this type possible, the DMt hasbeen conceived diversely from most of the other DMS in existence.These have usually been realized exclusively as components in trans-lation procedures, information retrieval systems, etc.
Such DMS, almostalways, include only a limited number of lexical items.THE ITALIAN MACHINE DICTIONARY: A SEMANTIC APPROACH 55The DMI has a structure and dimensions that allow us to considerit as an exhaustive, automatically processable representation of thelexical component of the Italian linguistic system.
The DMI is, therefore,intended as an instrument for research studies at the level of la languewhere exhaustive inventories, data and observations are necessary.1.4.
Theoretical background.The research project described below by N. Calzolari and L. Pecchiais an example of how the DMI can be used in this direction.The actual situation of linguistic theory is that of constant changeand development.
Not only are the traditional models being con-tinuously modified but some researchers affirm also that the debate isnow between theories which belong to different scientific ', paradigms"Examples usually quoted are the number of different generative-trans-formational schools (interpretive semantics, generative semantics, etc.
),relational grammar, cognitive semantics.
In this situation, some re-searchers present he following alternatives: whether the scope of theresearch work conducted in LDP must, of necessity, be directed towardsa specific linguistic theory, or whether LDP can produce results whichcan be utilized by different linguistic schools.For the sake of simplicity we will examine certain examples fromthe syntax field.
A clear example of LDP activity directed at a specificlinguistic theory is, in my opinion, offered by the so-called ' grammartesters ', i.e.
those computational systems which apply a lexicon anda grammar for automatic sentence generation.
14These systems, at least in the intention of their creators, constitutea concrete and precise specification at the computational level of adetermined linguistic theory; the grammar is considered as a programused to produce sentences; the algorithms which interpret he rulesare considered as a part of the meta-theory; the production of concretesentences serves to verify the coherence of the rules, the completenessand lack of contradiction of the formal apparatus and to indicate,practically, the extension of the subset of language generated by thegrammar.Evidently, these systems are intentionally strictly connected with14 This is not the place to enter into a discussion on the complex and well-knownproblem of the relation and the differences between " generation" as an abstract cal-culus of all the possible grammatical objects and the automatic "product ion"  ofconcrete sentences.56 NICO~.ETTA CAI.ZOLARI- LAURA PECCIIIA- ANTONIO Z~POLL Ithe corresponding linguistic theory, constituting, it could be said, thecomputational " transcription" ofit.
The rapid evolution of the theories,the models, the formal apparatus require a continual updating of thecorresponding computational systems, which does not seem very easy torealize, at least in practice.
Furthermore, the generative-transformationalschools whose theories are usually incorporated in these systems haveso far only described isolated regions of the linguistic structure, aimingat verifying the adequacy of descriptive methods rather than at de-scribing coherently and exhaustively a language.
As a consequence ofthis, anyone wishing to use the results of their researches in a compu-tational system would face a set of isolated observations distributedin different regions of a language, not systematically linked to eachother, but divided by so far unexplored regions.On the other hand, however, the analytical methods produced bythe generative-transformational theories have revealed a very efficientheuristic power, and have considerably increased the precision andsubtlety of the observations.
The number of new phenomena thathave been revealed has grown notably in the last 20 years.In front of this situation, the behaviour of LDV researchers mayrange between two alternatives.The first position is usually characterized asthe rise of a linguistic"computational paradigm", which is distinct from, if not directly in con-trast with, the generative-transformational par digm, and tends to assumethe computational aspect among the principal characteristics of a lin-guistic theory.
The conviction is expressed that the primary "focus"of linguistic research must be shifted from the description of the com-petence as formal abstract mechanisms towards the simulation-likestudies of the processes which underlie the production and the com-prehension of the utterances.
The "natural anguage understanding"computational system could constitute a powerful experimental ndheuristic tool for the study of the complexity and the constraints ofthese processes, making it easier to emphasize the mechanisms of interac-tion between the components which are involved in these processes.The scantiness of the results obtained so far (some of the devoteesof this approach ave likened the situation to that of medieval alchemyas opposed to modern chemistry) makes it impossible to formulateeven a summary judgement.
Nevertheless, it is quite clear that thistype of research is limited, and will be probably limited, at least forsome time in the future, to the consideration of extremely limitedlanguage subsets.THE ITALIAN MACHINE DICTIONARY: A SEMANTIC APPROACH 57The second position seems to prefer, in the actual situationof linguistic theory, a systematic examination of the data to an im-mediate construction of a formal global model.
Obviously, the useof abstractions or notions (e.g.
those of transformation or of com-ponential analysis) whose theoretical state may vary depending on theglobal evolution of the theory itself, but which have been seen to beexperimental devices of extraordinary efficiency in the analysis, is notrejected.
The complex formal mechanisms proposed by the generative-transformational school is not implemented into a computationalsystem as a representation f a " language theory" but some of theircharacteristics (form of the rules, relationship between the rules, etc.
)are utilized to store, handle and organize the data accumulated in theinductive moment of the research.T.DV essentially offers two complementary contributions to this ap-proach.
Firstly, it supplies techniques which permit he automatic handlingof the data.
Secondly, LDP studies algorithms which permit the datato be structured conveniently, organizing them so that their regularity,diversity, correlations, etc., can be evidenced without it being necessaryto make this organisation dependent on the "a  priori " choice of ageneral global theoretical model.The inventories of linguistic units recorded in " machine readableform" must be considered within this framework and, in particular,those lexical inventories in which each lexical unit is supplied withan explicit, suitably coded, representation of its linguistic behaviourshould be considered.In addition, the use of a lexical inventory would facilitate the defini-tion of the degree of exhaustivity of the descriptions and the evaluationof the extension of the phenomena studied.
(The term ' extension' mustbe here understood obviously not as frequency of appearance in textsbut as frequency of appearance in the system).
15At the same time, it seems that the time has come to systematizeand put at the public disposal the linguistic data accumulated in machine15 The information is often represented by binary matrixes in which a line cor-responds to a lexical unit, a column to a specific linguistic property.
This organizationobviously facilitates the identification of identical or similar configurations, the veri-fication of the coherence between the contents of the interelated columns, etc.
(seeJoss~rsoN, 1969).
The work of M. Glloss (1975) and his group in the construction of agrammatical lexicon of French certainly constitutes the most important example.
Fur-thermore, the role which the lexicon and its description have assumed within the mostrecent developments of the generative-transformational school (Bresnan, etc.)
shouldnot be neglected.58 N ICOLETTA CALZOLARI  - LAURA PECCHIA  - ANTONIO ZAMPOLL Ireadable form (texts, dictionaries, descriptions, rules, etc.)
and thecomputational tools (software packages, integrated systems, mid leveland high level languages for I.DI,, etc.)
produced in different institutesof different countries in different ways, but on the basis of similar method-ological assumptions and of a general common sum of knowledge.It is within this framework, and not only for applied and oper-ational purposes, that since 1968 (ZAMPOLLI, 1968), I have promotedthe construction of the DMI as one of the principle projects of the newlyconstituted Dr..The project described in the following pages by N. Calzolari andL.
Pecchia is an original development in the field of semantics alongthese general planning lines.2.
TOWARDS A FORMALIZAT ION OF LEXICAL  DEF IN IT IONS2.1.
Preliminary steps.This part of the article describes an attempt o formalize all thenoun-definitions in the Italian Machine Dictionary (DMI).
The defi-nitions recorded in the DMI were taken from the Zingarelli Dictionary(1970) after having undergone a first process of normalization andshortening.
Part of the normalization process was to classify the Zin-garelli definitions into 9 different types and to mark each of these witha particular code.The main types of definitions are:1) the relational (coded as 1), which is composed of a) a fixedpart representing a function, and b) a variable part, the basis;2) the synonymous (coded as 2), which is made up of one ormore single words which are referred to for an explanation of themeaning considered;3) the one per ' genus et differentia' (coded as 3), which is madeup of a) a fixed word considered as a classifier (the ' generic part' ofthe definition), and b) a descriptive or predicative phrase of the clas-sifier (the 'specific part' of the definition).The framework of our research is typical of componential nalysis,according to which even that which appears to be "a  list of basicirregularities " (BLOOMFIELD, 1933, p. 162), i.e.
the lexicon, couldbecome awell-structured and therefore formalizable set, in other words,THE ITALIAN MACHINE DICTIONARY: A SEMANTIC APPROACH 59a system.
We were first given the idea for the analysis by the theoryof componential nalysis, but we have attempted to expand its fieldof application which, up to now, has been dedicated only to well struc-tured sets, as shown in the work of componential nthropologists,(the domains of words of kinslfip), or to lemmas isolated from the restof the lexicon (the well known example of Katz: 'bachelor ').
Ourintention has been that of extending the application of this theory toall nouns of the Italian lexicon.
We are helped in this by the great quantityof material at our disposal in the DML As we are well aware of the li-mitations of componential nalysis, we have used it only as a tool,not as an end, in achieving our purpose.From the entire corpus of lemmas and definitions in the DMI wehave excluded those lemmas and definitions which are marked as archaicor rare.
We have analyzed, up to now, all those definitions classedunder codes 3 and 5, i.e.
those with one generic and one specific part.These are the most numerous groups of definitions.
After this selectionhad been made, the total number of lexical items on which we areactually working is 28,873, among which 20,453 are monosemic and8,420 polysemic; the total amount of their definitions is 44,051.
Wehave worked on this corpus of lemmas and definitions using programsand checks of different kinds, working in two main directions whichwill be discussed later in more detail.
Firstly, we have extracted aconsiderable number of markers whi& would be assigned to the highestpossible number of lemmas.
Secondly, we have started an analysisof prepositions, of prepositional groups and of other syntagms whichcan be considered as grammatical in a very generic sense.
These syn-tagms have been chosen because they satisfy, simultaneously, the fol-lowing two criteria:a) that of occurring with a high frequency in the definitions;b) that of showing well defined semantic relations existing be-tween noun and noun, or between verb and noun, or between ounand proposition.2.2.
Markers.In the first phase of our work, the aim was to extract a certainnumber of'markers ', starting mainly from the definitions; in otherwords, working in an inductive way.
We obtained the first basic work-ing elements from a control of the frequency-list of the forms found60 N ICOLETTA CALZOLARI  - LAURA PECCHIA  - ANTONIO ZAMPOLL Iin the corpus of noun-definitions.
This list helped us to make a firstpurely provisional inventory of lemmas which might be used as' markers 'Then, by looking up the concordances of these definitions, wewere able to test the validity of these basic elements.
In fact we haveascertained that the most frequent lemmas in the set of noun-definitions,(i.e., the lexical entries which will be most probably used as ' semanticmarkers ') almost always appear in the context in a generic sense andin the first position, only occasionally assuming a specific sense in dif-ferent positions.
The fact that, as expected, with the exclusion of syn-tactic words such as prepositions, conjunctions, articles, etc., the highestfrequency-indexes pertain to the grammatical category of nouns hasalso been relevant.We shall use the name ' markers' to refer to these most frequentlemmas: but there is a difference between our' markers' and the markersreferred to in componential analysis; although our markers functionas markers usually do, i.e., they describe a meaning or part of it, theyremain essentially emmas.
It is thus not necessary to use a metalanguagedifferent from the language which is being described; the elements ofthe lexicon can be given a metalinguistic function.These markers have been grouped into lists on the basis of differentsemantic riteria such as synonymy, antonymy, etc.
We have alsomade a distinction between markers behaving as one-place predicatesand markers behaving as two-or n-place predicates.A first group of 450 semantic markers was extracted and matchedby a program with the generic part of all the definitions.
We haveverified that 22,146 definitions out of 47,291 were covered, in theirgeneric part, by these markers.
This first part of the work is describedin more detail in CAI~ZOI.Am, MORETTI (1976).In the prosecution of the work, through further additions or sub-stitutions of semantic markers which were either provided by literatureon this subject, or resulted from our intuition, or by other successiveanalyses on the corpus, we have covered 40,135 definitions with 407markers.We have ascertained that, in almost every case, the generic partof the definitions of the DMI (and therefore of the Zingarelli) givesthe word whose level is immediately higher with respect o that ofthe defined lemma (considering a hierarchical c assification moving fromthe more specific to the more general, i.e.
from a greater to a smallerintension).
This homogeneity in the definitions justifies the validityTHE ITALIAN MACHINE DICTIONARY: A SEMANTIC APPROACH 61of the method we have adopted to refer all the lemmas back to themarkers.In practice, for the lemmas not covered by markers after the firstprocedure of matching, i.e.
for those lemmas which are defined, in theirgeneric part, by words which are too specific to be used as markers,we have established some chains which refer back to more and moregeneric words until at least one marker is reached.
In order to constructthese chains we used a procedure to convert all the lemmas into numbers:this seemed to be the simplest way to keep in main storage the greatquantity of data we had to work with.
Using a program which workson these numbers, we have simulated a path for each lemma.
Thispath starts from the lemma itself, and the program examines the genericpart of the definition of the \]emma.
The program checks if this genericpart is included in the list of markers, and in any case examines thisgeneric part itself as a lemma to be defined and looks for its definition;the procedure continues in this way until the generic part of a definitionis found to be a marker without any other more generic marker aboveit.
By this procedure, 91% of the definitions have been reconductedto the markers, i.e.
40,135 out of 44,051.By means of these chains, we have given the noun-dictionary aresemblance to a tree-structure.
This tree-structure has been formedusing the definitions of the DMI for almost all the lemmas; the hierar-chical structure we have given to the markers has, on the contrary,been partly taken from the definitions, and partly imposed by us ac-cording to the traditional rules of class inclusion.
* 400 ACCORDO 1 -+ ARMONIA  ~ CONCORDANZA-+ RELAZIONE-+ QUAL IT .
/ Iaccord harmony concordance relation quality*200 ACCORDO 2 -~ UNIONE ~ ATTOaccord union act*200 ACCRESCIMENTO .-*.
SV ILUPPO -.
'- A TTOincrease development act* 800 BARIBAL  ~ ORSO ~ MAMMIFERO ~ CLASSE ~ GRUPPObear mammal class group-0- INS IEME --0- TOTALIT.,2t ~ QUANTIT /~ ~ ENT IT~set totality quantity entity"031 BARIO -~ ELEMENTO~ PARTE -~ PEZZO -+ PARTEelement part piece part* 051 DUCA ~ T ITOLO ~ NOME "-+ VOCABOLO -+ PAROLA -.,-duke title name item wordTERMINE ~ PAROLAterm wordFig.
1.
Examples of chains from lemmas to markers.62 NICOLETTA CALZOLARI - LAURA PECCHIA - ANTONIO ZAMPOLLIIn setting these chains (see Fig 1), we discovered that some chainsof definienda and definientlc; are circular, e.g.
PARTE is defined in theDlviI as PEZZO, and PEZZO as PARTE (see also CALZOZARr, 1977).In the example given in Fig.
1, the asterisk indicates the presence ofat least one marker in the chain; the first number indicates the lengthof the chain; the second the length of the chain if it is circular; thethird the distance between the two identical emmas in the circularchain.It has been possible, using these chains, to assemble the entire dic-tionary around some essential cores of more inclusive meanings.
Thesecores are the tops of the trees, and from there thick branches lead offto the more particular and specific levels of the lexicon.
The final dataconcerning the number and depth of the chains are shown in Table 1.TABLE 1.Number of definitions: 44,051Number of definitions which lead to a marker: 40,135length chains circular chains1 6960 4742 4495 27343 7960 35764 5375 36595 2153 20296 1165 16017 422 5768 181 3069 42 24410 7 8311 0 612 0 3total 28760 15291Moreover, for every marker (see Fig.
2), we have counted thenumber of times it occurs in all the chains (second column), and thenumber of times it appears in the chains which stop at the first marker(third column).
In both of these cases, we have computed separatelythe occurrences of the marker at all the levels (lst, 2nd, 3rd, etc.
; the1st column indicates the levels).THE ITALIAN MACHINE DICTIONARY: A SEMANTIC APPROACH 63depth occurrence occurrenceof the marker as 1st markerESSERE 1 0 0(being) 2 93 903 135 434 33 105 4 4total 265 147ANIMALE 1 1 1(animal) 2 42 403 139 534 11 25 1 1total 194 97MAMMIFERO 1 0 0(mammal) 2 126 1243 241 524 32 85 6 0total 405 184Fig.
2.
Examples of computations on markers' occurrences.2.3.
Definition-Structures.As far as the structure of the definitions is concerned, we wantedto start the analysis again from the definitions themselves (not tryingto test some preconceived structures), with a careful checking of thecorpus of definitions.We have extracted prepositions, and prepositional or grammaticalsyntagms, on the basis of a frequency-criterion, placing together underthe term 'locution' or 'prepositional syntagm' (even if this termis not a very exact one) expressions of this kind:a forma di (in the form of);dal colore (of colour);provvisto di (provided by);munito di (furnished with);in contrasto con (in opposition to);consistence in (consisting in);simile a (similar to);originario di (originating from);che serve per (which serves for/as); etc.64 NICOLETTA CALZOLARI  - LAURA PECCHIA  - ANTONIO ZAMPOLL IThese phrases which we will call, arbitrarily, 'prepositional syn-tagms' have been divided into various categories.
This subdivisionwas made possible through an introspective examination of the asso-ciations of analogous meanings.
The criterion was the individualizationof the recurring semantic functions which have a similar meaning,even though these functions have been expressed lexically and/orsyntactically in a completely different way.One example of such grouped functions is the category SCOPO(aim), for which we have individualized the following set of lexi-calizations (when necessary, with relative flection):tendente a (tending to);diretto a (aimed at);volto a (directed to);con Io scopo di (with the purpose of);a scopo di (for the purpose of);che ha Io scopo di (which has the purpose of);che mira a (which aims at);chi mira a (who aims at);mirante a (aiming at);rivolto a (turned to);per conseguimento d; (for achieving); etc.We have grouped these lists of prepositions and prepositional syn-tagms into files on the basis of their affinity of meaning.
This has beenpossible through the analysis of the functions and of the different possi-bilities of their expression, following inductive and deductive methods.The validity of these associations of meaning, made intuitively,was afterwards verified empirically: various procedures for the ex-traction of the definitions in which each function appears, providedthe material to be analyzed for this checking.
For instance, in the analysisof various relations, such as those we called ATT ITUDINE (aptitude),COLORE (colour), FORMA (form), CONTENUTO (content), ORI -G INE  (origin), SCOPO (aim), USO (use), SOMIGL IANZA (simi-larity), COMPOS TO (composed of), MUNITO (furnished with), RE-LAT IVO A (relative to), the check of all the definitions in whichelements of the corresponding lists appear has shown the validity(about 80-90%) of our groupings made on the basis of our intuition.In addition, from this careful examination of different groups of defi-nitions, we obtained some data which made it possible for us to for-mulate some interesting considerations.THE ITALIAN MACHINE DICTIONARY: A SEMANTIC APPROACH 65We have observed, for instance, that the definitional structure basedon the relation A TTITUDINE (aptitude) has a quantitatively highhomogeneity of application with respect o the lemmas in whose defi-nitions the relation is used.
In fact, in 50% of the definitions in whichthis relation appears, it is applied to lemmas whose generic part, i.e.whose main semantic marker, is included in the list of homogeneousmarkers we have called S TRUMENTO (instrument) (see Fig.
3).
Ex-amples of the recurring generic parts with a high frequency are: Mec-canismo (mechanism); Organo (organ); Congegno (contrivance); Appa-rato (apparatus) ; Attrezzo (implement); Strumento (instrument); Arnese(tool) ; Dispositivo (device); Apparecchiatura ( pparatus); Macchina(machine) ; Attrezzatura (equipment) ; Apparecchio (apparatus).ACCIARINO = Dispositivo atto a determinate l'accensioneFlint-lock Tool apt to cause accensionARCHIPENDOLO = Strumento atto a rendere orizzontale una rettaPlumb-line Instrument apt to make a straight line horizontalCARICATORE = Attrezzatura tta al carico e allo scarico di materialiLoader Machinery apt to load and unload materialsSPEZZATRICE  = Macchina del panificio atta a tagliare la pasta in pezziCutter Machine of the bakery apt to cut the dough into piecesFig.
3.
Examples in which the function ATT ITUDINE (aptitude) selects the particularmarker STRUMENTO (instrument).It is interesting to point out the way in which a certain definitionstructure can be frequently associated to a certain kind of marker.Other definition structures linked to other functions can make itpossible to delimit, within the lexicon, sufficiently homogeneous se-mantic fields.
Since these associations between markers and functionsoccur in several groups of definitions, we think that this correspondence' marker-relation' is not random, but is established for semantic reasonsof affinity at a syntagmatic level.
It seems possible for us to assert, atthis point, that some markers effect a preferential selection towardcertain types of defining relations rather than others, and vice versa.If this hypothesis is tested extensively on the lexicon, it can help inreaching aformalization of the semantic information which is in the DMLWe think that a more complete formalization, in comparison tothat obtained by the simple hierarchical organization of the markers,can be achieved by also identifying the other kinds of relations whichare different from the hierarchical one.
Functions uch as those describedabove will allow:66 NICOLETTA CALZOLARI  - LAURA PECCHIA  - ANTONIO ZAMPOLL Ia) the linking of markers: for example, the pertinence relationPARTE (part) makes it possible to link the markers PERSONA(person), UOMO (man), DONNA (woman), with a set of markerssuch as MANO (hand), CAPELL I  (hair), BOCCA (mouth), TESTA(head), CAPO (head), etc.
; and/orb) the joining of the generic to the specific part of the definitions,for example in the definition ofACCHIAPPAMOSCHE = Strumento atto a catturare mosche(Fly-swatter ----instrument apt to catch flies)the function SCOPO (aim), in its lexicalization ATTO A (apt to),links the marker STRUMENTO (instrument) to its specification.For the final structure of the definitions, we think that the markerscan either be considered as n-place predicates joined to their argumentsby these various types of functions, or as nodes of a semantic networklinked to the specific part of the definitions, i.e.
the other nodes, byarcs which express these various types of functions.Such relations can be used as the starting point in the study of theuse of prepositions and prepositional syntagms in the Italian languageand, particularly, in the language of vocabulary definitions.Unifying these functions is also of great help in structuralizing thedefinitions, at a higher level of formalization, assisting greatly in theextraction of all the data linked by the same function.We have also noticed that some types of sentence-structure occurmore frequently in the definitions.
Besides considering the functionsin isolation, we have been working on a quantitative xamination ofthe various possible matchings of these functions among themselves;this has been done with the aim of also identifying the kinds of sentence-structures more frequently used by lexicographers in the compilationof dictionaries.
A practical goal for us is to work further towardsthe unifying of the definitions, by leading them back, as far as possible,to the more frequent and common structures.2.4.
Perspectives.Our research ad a number of different aims but was principallydirected towards the lexicographic aspect.
This aspect consists in anattempt to analyze the defining method adopted by Italian lexicographictradition as shown by the Zingarelli.
This analysis has been developedin two different stages:THE ITALIAN MACHINE DICTIONARY: A SEMANTIC APPROACH 671) An analysis of the terminology used in the definitions, throughthe enucleation of markers.
We have seen that, among the most frequentlemmas in the definitions (i.e.
among those words whose extensionis greater or, in other words, whose intension is smaller), those wordsconsidered as markers by literature on this subject appear.2) A check of the definitions considered from the point of viewof their structure.
This emphasized the very high frequency of certaintypes of functional syntagms as being more suitable in compiling defi-nitions.
It will be interesting to have a comparative xamination withdictionaries of other languages.The semantic aspect is very closely related to the lexicographicaspect of this study.
Our aim was to give a hierarchical type of organ-ization, even if provisional, to the large set of Italian nouns at ourdisposal.
In doing so, we have taken what in our opinion is the firststep towards a decomposition of a meaning into distinctive markers,i.e.
the attribution as main semantic marker of the lemma which is atan immediately higher level in a hierarchical scale.
Many hierarchicalscales can be individualized in the lexicon, or more precisely amongthe meanings of the lexical items.We have also begun, through the study of prepositional functions,the second step in the decomposition of a meaning into markers: thelinking of markers with other markers, the individualization of thedifferent kinds of relations which exist among markers, and of thoserelations which exist between primary and secondary markers expressedrespectively by the generic and the specific part of the definitions.There is also an important practical aspect of this work: that ofmaking the definitions of the DMI more uniform from a semantic pointof view.
This is achieved by indicating the semantic uniformities whichare latent under the different lexicalizations of the same markers or ofidentical relations, and by reducing these diversities of lexical formsto one single symbol reflecting their uniformity.
This will make thelooking up of the DMI easier.This work should also be of relevance, at a future date, in connectionwith an analysis of the verb which takes into consideration the abovementioned analyses of the noun at a level of selectional restrictionsat first, and, later, extends these analyses to the level of "knowledgeof the world ".
Thus, we feel that our work can provide a first stepfor a future utilization of the DMI in syntactic and semantic analyses ofthe Italian language.P, EFEP,.ENCE SM.
ALmrI, La struttura del lessico, I1Mulino, Bologna, 1974.M.
BI~RWlSCa, On certain problems of se-mantic representations, in ~ Foundationsof Language ~, V (1969), pp.
153-184.L.
BLOOMrmLD, Language, New York,1933.N.
C~zoL~t,  An empirical approach tocircularity in dictionary definitions, in~ Cahiers de Lexicologie ~), XXXI (1977)2.N.
CALZOLARI, L. MO~TTI, A methodfor a normalization and a possible algo-rithmic treatment of definitions in theItalian Dictionary, presented at ICCL,6th International Conference on Com-putational Linguistics (co~mG '76),Ottawa, 1976.P.
CASTROGIOWm~h A. T~LA~, Primirisultati di un'analisi statistica morfologicae tessicale delle risposte al test di Rorschachnella prospettiva di uno studio dei rap-porti tra psicologia e linguaggio, irt A.ZAMPO~LI (ed.
), 1973a, pp.
307-324.E.
CHARNIAK, Y. WI~KS (eds.
), Compu-tational Semantics, North-Holland, Am-sterdam, 1976.C.
CIAM~I, Les projets de recherche auto-matique des informations juridiques clansl'Institut pour la documentation juridiquedu Conseil National des Recherches, inA.
ZAMPOtLI (ed.
), 1973a, pp.
249-268.A.
M. CIRESn, Inventaires et @ertoireslexicaux, formulaires et mdtriques deschants populaires #aliens, in A. ZAM-POtLI (ed.
), 1973a, pp.
209-231.P.
CoI.~, J. SADOCK (eds.
), Syntax andSemantics: Grammatical Relations, Aca-demic Press, New York, 1977.F.
DIMITaESCU, Projet d'un dictionnaire dela langue roumaine du XVI  sidcle, in A.ZAMPOLLI (ed.
), 1973a, pp.
41-48.A.
Dlmo, ~laborations dlectroniques detextes effectudes par l'Accademia della Cru-sca, pour la prdparation du dictionnairehistorique de la langue italienne, in A.ZAMPOLLI (ed.
), 1973a, pp.
33-76.C.
FILLMO~, The Case for Case, in E.BACI~, I~.. T. HUMS (eds.
), Universalsin Linguistic Theory, Holt, Rinehart &Winston, New York, 1968, pp.
1-88.C.
FILLMOaZ, Scenes-and-frame semantics, inA ZAM~O~Li (ed.
), 1977b.J.
Gm~ENBFa~G, Some universals of grammarwith particular reference to the order ofmeaningful elements, in J.
G~NBEaO(ed.
), Universals of Language, MIT Press,Cambridge (Mass.
), 1966.A.
GmtrI, N. MAI~II~Ol~E, A. ZAMPOLLI,D.
A. BROGNA, V. LOMANTO, L. Floc-cm, Concordanza dei grammatici latini,in Supplemento agli Atti dell'Accademiadetle Scienze, Torino, vol.
112, 1978.M.
GRoss, Methodes en Syntaxe, Paris,1975.1~.. S. JACKENDO~r, On some questionablearguments about quantifiers and negation,in ,Language~), XLVII (1971) 2,pp.
282-297.R.. S. JACK~NDOFP, Semantic Interpretation,MIT Press, Cambridge (Mass.
), 1972.H.
H. Joss~soN, The Lexicon: a Systemof Matrices of Lexical Units and theirProperties, in ~ ICCL ~), 1969.THE ITALIAN MACHINE DICTIONARY: A SEMANTIC APPROACH 69j.
j. KATZ, Semantic Theory, Harper &Row, New York, 1972.J.
j. KATZ, J. FoDo~, The structure of asemantic theory, in , Language ~,XXXIX (1963), pp.
170-210.G.
LEECH, Semantics, Penguin, London,1974.J.
D. Mc CAWL~Y, The role of semanticsin a grammar, in E. BACH, P~.
T. HARMS,Universals in Linguistic Theory, Holt,Rinehart & Winston, New York,1968, pp.
125-169.J.
MACNAMARA, Parsimony and the lexicon,in ~Language~), XLVII (1971) 2,pp.
35%374.J.
P~T6rI, Lexicology, Encyclopaedic Know-ledge, Theory of Text, in ~ Cahiers deLexicologie ~, XXIX (1976) 2, pp.
25-41.R.
RUSTIN (ed.
), Natural Language Pro-cessing, Algorithmic Press, New York,1973.C.
SEGRE, A. ZAMI'OLLI, La concordanzadiacronica del ~ Furioso ~, in Atti del Con-vegno di Studi , Lingua, stile e tradizionidelle were dell'Ariosto ~, (Reggio Emi-lia-Ferrara), 1974.R.. SIMMONS, Semantic networks: theircomputation and use for understandingEnglish sentences, in R. SCHANK, K.COLBY (eds.
), Computer Models ofThought and Language, Freeman, SanFrancisco (Calif.), 1973.D.
D. STrINBUrtC, L. A.
JAKOBOVITS(eds.
), Semantics, Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge, 1971.U.
WEINREICH, Explorations in semantictheory, in T. A. SEBEOK (ed.
), CurrentTrends in Linguistics, vol.
III, Mouton,The Hague, 1966.A.
ZAMPOLLI, Projet d'un dictionnaire italiendu machine, Intervention, in R..
BusA(ed.
), De lexico electronico latino, Pisa,1968.A.
ZAMPOLLI, Nora tecnica, in A. M. BAR-TOLETTI COLOMBO (ed.
), La Costitu-zione della Repubblica Italiana, Testi, ln-dici, Concordanze, Firenze, 1971.A.
ZAMPOLLI (ed.
), Linguistica matematicae calcolatori, Firenze, 1973a.A.
ZAMPOLLI, Humanities Computing inItaly, in  Computers and the Huma-nities ~), 7 (1973b) 6, pp.
343-360.A.
ZAMPOLLI, La section linguistlque duCNUCE, in A. ZAMrOLLI (ed.
), 1973a,pp.
133-199.A.
ZAMPOLLI, L'elaborazione lettronica deidaft linguistici : stato delle ricerche  pro-spettive, in Atti del Convegno sul tema~ Le tecniche di classificazlone e Ioro ap-plicazione linguistica ~), Accademia Na-zionale dei Lincei, P, oma, 1975.A.
ZAMPOLLI, Trattamento automatico didati linguistici e linguistica quantitativa,in SOCmT.~ DI LINGUISTICA ITALIANA,Dieci anni di linguistica italiana (1965-1975), P, oma, 1977a, pp.
349-370.A.
ZAMPOLLI (ed.
), Linguistic StructuresProcessing, North-Holland, Amsterdam,1977b.N.
ZINGARELLI, Vocabolario della LinguaItaliana, X ed., Zanichelli, Bologna,1970.
