ANNETTE STACHOWITZBEYOND THE FEASIBILITY STUDY:LEXICOGRAPHIC PROGRESS*1.
FEASIBILITY STUDYThe feasibility study on fully automatic high quality translationwas held in 1971 under the auspices of the Linguistics Research Centerof The University of Texas at Austin with support from KAFB.
Theparticipants were twenty experts in the areas of linguistics and computersoftware, representing a wide range of opinions on the feasibility ofMT.
Among the recommendations made in the report on this study wasone regarding the need of "lexical research to determine the syntacticand semantic patterns of linguistic entities ".
The result of such researchwould be a dictionary containing, in addition to lexical information,syntactic and semantic features and restrictors necessary for qualitytranslation.
Ill this paper, I would like to describe some of the workwhich is currently being done at the Linguistics Research Center to-ward such a dictionary.2.
WORK AT THE CENTER2.1.
Approach.2.1.1.
Purpose.The purpose of the dictionary is to provide the information whichthe grammar of a language can refer to in its rules toa) establish the wellformedness of a sentence,b) avoid forced reading, and* This paper is an updated version of a paper presented at the Tenth Annual Meetingof the Association for Computational Linguistics in Chapel HilJ, North Carolina, 1972.324 ANNETTE STACHO~FITZc) recognize the semantic reading of each word in a particularcontext (for correct choice of one translation equivalent from a numberof possibilities or for synonymy substitution in paraphrasing).This information should be as comprehensive as possible; on theother hand, it must still have manageable proportions.
Our aim isto find the happy medium; our classification system constitutes afirst modest step towards it.2.1.2.
Types of Information.In general, the features we include in our lexicon reflect surfacephenomena: there are several reasons for this approach.To begin with, the input text for any translation consists of surfacestrings; whatever information we need is present in these surface stringsand must be recognized.Secondly, it will be simpler to recognize regularities and establishtransformational re ations as well as semantic lasses once we have com-paratively comprehensive lists of lexical items with all or at least mostof their surface features.
Any hypothesis can then be checked againstthis set of data.
When we describe surface phenomena, we do not over-look distinctions like those between easy to please and eager to pleaseor expect somebody to do something and advise somebody to do something,etc.
These pairs of lexical items share only some surface environments,not all of them, a fact which we can recognize when we compare theirdescriptors, by inspection or mechanically.Further, a description Of surface structure gives us the possibilityof producing translations which are structurally similar to the inputstring if these are permissible and of similar stylistic value in the targetlanguage.In addition to surface features, our description includes ome of thetransformational features which are well established.
For example, wemark verbs which cannot be passivized, English verbs which do notform the progressive, and adjectives which modify the verbal aspectsof a noun rather than its full scope of meaning.Finally, we include in our lexical description some indications offunctional relationships between surface and deep structures.
Theseare based on a contrastive approach; they are included only for thosesets of translation equivalents for which these relations are not identical.For example, the English verb fail takes a subject and a complementBEYOND THE FEASIBILITY STUDY: LEXICOGRAPHIC PROGRESS 325both of which are basically the same in the surface and the deep structure.Its German translation, the verb miflgliicken, however, takes a subjectwhich appears as a dative object in the surface, while the surface subjectrepresents he deep object complement.
This characteristic of the Ger-man verb is explicitly marked in our lexicon.2.2.
Methods.The method used at the Center for the compilation of its MT dictio-naries consists of three steps:1) inclusion of information provided in existing dictionaries;2) coding of carefully selected semantic and syntactic features;3) interpretation f the information in the resulting lists and re-vision.2.2.1.
Information which is provided by existing dictionaries.Among the available dictionaries we found most useful are theGerman-English Dictionary by Wn.DH^GEN and I-I~ttAUCOtmT and TheAdvanced Learner's Dictionary of Current English by HORNBY, GATENBYand W.~rmLD.
Both of these dictionaries indicate the different read-ings of a lexical item separately, according to syntactic and/or semanticcriteria.
Therefore, our initial lists already contained a small amountof syntactic and semosyntactic information, such as human vs. non-human subjects or objects required by verbs?We began with the German and English verb lists primarily tofind out the general types of selection restrictions of these verbs andto use this information as the basis of our classification of nouns andadjectives.
In this way, we compiled the following lists:a) A German verb list with English translation equivalents.This list contains approximately 17,500 entries.
Since the different read-ings of each key-word constitute separate ntries, the list representsapproximately 12,000 different verb stems.b) An English verb list, consisting of 6,500 verb stem entries.c) A German noun list with English translation equivalents, gen-der, and inflectional information.
This list contains appr.
73,000 entries;at present, appr.
2,000 entries contain semosyntactic features.326 ANNETTE STACHOV?ITZd) A bilingual adjective list of appr.
27,000 entries, each consistingof an English keyword, its German translation equivalents, and subjectarea or stylistic descriptors.
The addition of features to these entries isstill in progress; approximately 12,000 items have been assigned fea-tures so far.e) An English-German adverb list which is still in the process ofcompilation.
At present, it covers adverbs beginning with the lettersA through R, totalling some 3,500 entries.
Each entry consists of anEnglish adverb, its German translation equivalents, and syntactic andsemo-syntactic features as described under 2.4.5. in this paper.f) In addition to these lists of one-word entries, we have compiledbilingual ists of phrasal verbs.
The lists are separated according to in-ternal syntactic onstituents:V+ PRPH--phrases, such as take into account----in Betrachtziehen (4,500 entries)V + NP--phrases,  such "as raise a question = eine Frage stellen(5,700 entries)V + A-  phrases, such as aehnlich sehen ~- look like (900 entries)V + V ~ phrases, such as zu verstehen geben ~- indicate (700 en-tries).2.2.2.
Updating of lists.The second and current stage in the lexicographic work is the ad-dition of syntactic and semo-syntactic features not explicitly given inthe existing dictionaries but identified as essential by linguistic researchof the past two decades ~.The information is being coded according toa general classification system, which I will touch on briefly later andfor which we rely heavily on the intuition of native speakers.2.2.3.
Interpretation of lists.The third stage of our lexicographic work is the interpretation ofthe information contained in our lists.
For this purpose, we produceconcordances in which all lexical entries having a particular feature incommon are listed together.
Even more useful will be the sub-lists whichour linguists can request - lists of all lexical entries with specific com-binations of features, for example.
English verbs which can take bothBEYOND THE FEASIBILITY STUDY: LEXICOGRAPHIC PROGRESS 327that-clauses and infinitive complements, or German reflexive verbswhose English translation is intransitive, etc.
Inspection of such specialsub-lists will, hopefully, reveal regularities and semantic sub-classeswhich we can use to replace combinations of syntactic or semantic fea-tures and thus streamline the dictionary.Similarly, those features which can be predicted from the presenceor absence of others will be deleted from the dictionary and introducedby lexical redundancy rules.
An example would be a redundancy rulestating that all verbs which take for-to object complements require humansubjects.2.3.
The Classification System.The classification system according to which lexicographic workat the Center is being clone is essentially the same for German and En-glish.
Some syntactic structures, however, apply only to one language.Basically, the system comprises three types of features: the propertiesof the classified element itself; the properties of the environment inwhich it may occur wellformedly; and information pertaining to thesubject area to which a lexical element or one of its semantic readingsmight be restricted.a) The features of the element itself are its syntactic ategory, itspossible discontinuous elements, such as separable verbal prefixes inGerman and adpreps in English, and its semantic sub-classification.b) The selection restriction of the classified element indicate thesyntactic and semantic restrictions on obligatory and optional compl e -ments, mostly of verbs, adjectives, and prepositions, but also of somenouns and adverbs.The features of the lexical element and also its selection restrictionsare indicated as values of subscripts, the latter being generalizations ofthe features.
For example, TC(AB) stands for "this verb requires an?
NP complement which is abstract ".
Or, as in "requires a human orabstract complement" is indicated by a comma: TC(HU, AB).
Thecomma also indicates ambiguity; for example, the English noun oper-ator has the features TY(HU, AB), which is to be read as " this nounis ambiguous; it is abstract in one reading, human in another ".
Option-ality of complements i  expressed by the value LA (lambda) witha comma, as in FC(A, LA), which reads "this verb (or adjective) takesan optional complement noun phrase in the accusative"328 ANNETTE STACHOWITZc) The additional restrictions consist at present mainly of tagsindicating the subject area for those words which are restricted to orhav%special usage in such areas as zoology, law, music, etc.2.4.
Specific Features.At this point I would like to outline briefly what the specific syn-tactic and semo-syntactic features are which are, at present, being as-signed to lexical entries.2.4.1.
Nouns.The list of nouns contains mostly the features of the nouns them-selves and only few selection restrictions.
They are subclassified accord-ing to the requirements of verbs, adjectives, and prepositions, but notaccording to logical distinctions or a subclassification of the universe.In other words, we are not interested in real distinctions but in thedistinctions made in the language.
The two are not always the same, asthe classification of the English noun novel might show.
A novel i snormally considered an abstract, yet we have to classify it, in addition,as inanimate physical object because one speaks of a novel meaningthe book or stack of papers on which it is printed.
Thus we say: Handme that novel.
Don't sit on my novel!
etc.The basic semantic noun classes we have established are abstract,human, animal, plant, and inanimate physical object.
To these, a num-ber of additional markers can be added as relevant.
These are: title(for items like Mr., Dr., etc., which can be followed by proper names);name (for frequently occurring proper names); body part (becauseof verbs like amputate and because the German definite article precedingnouns denoting body parts is replaced by a possessive pronoun in En-glish); machine (because many verbs which normally require a humansubject can also take a machine as a subject); mass (because these maybe used without an article in the singular); collective (because suchnouns can be used with verbs which otherwise require plural subjectsor subjects, as e.g.
disperse : the crowd dispersed, they dispersed, but not*the man dispersed; in English such nouns are frequently referred toby plural pronouns: The government is in agreement; hey are expectedto release their decision soon.
); quantity (for nouns like glass, half, per-BEYOND THE FEASIBILITY STUDY: LEXICOGRAPHIC PROGRESS 329cent, dozen, etc., which oan occur in the frame a ~ (of) NP, wherethey act as the syntactic but not the semantic head of the noun phraseconstruction); time (a sub-class of abstract; these nouns can take awhen-relative clause); count (abstracts which are preceded by a defi-nite article, such as idea, event, as opposed to those abstracts which maybe used in the singular without an article, e.g.
mathematics, love, etc.
;the latter type is unmarked); unit (abstracts like mile, year, etc., whichfit into the frame NP= QUANT+ ~.
,  the whole noun phrasebeing a quantitative adverb, as in /~e mites long; this allows us toanalyze only these noun phrases as adverbs, instead of considering everyNP a possible adverbial, which would cause a large number of incor-rect readings).Some nouns also have ~election restrictions, mostly prepositionalobjects or clauses.
Examples are dependence (on), fact (that).
The requiredsyntactic form of such complements i  indicated as that-clause, mark-ed or unmarked infinitive, gerund, for-to phrase, interrogative adverbplus clause, specific prepositions, and possible combinations of these.For prepositional objects, the semantic type of the noun within theprepositional phrase in also indicated as one of the semantic noun class-es mentioned earlier.
To indicate semantic selection restrictions, thebasic semantic noun classes are combined in tree form as shownEPO NT AB(ph);sical object) (intangible (abstt'act)/ ~  physical "~jcct)AN PL IN(plant) (inanimate physicalobject)HU AL(human) (animal)330 ANNETTE STACHOWITZEach node of the tree may be used as a selection restriction in orderto save enumeration of all noun types which are permitted for a par-ticular complement.
Sub-classes of adverbs are also used as semanticselection restrictions.Since we have no derivational nalysis as yet and therefore cannotmechanically recognize the underlying verbs of deverbative nouns,we have one additional noun feature, indicating optional directionaladverbs which may function as complements of some noun; example:the trip to Peking, the flight to the moon.
This feature is needed for correctanalysis and prevention of forced readings in strings like They describedthe trip to the South Pole.
vs.
They transported .these items to theSouth Pole., where the adverb modifies the noun in the first, the verbin the second sentence.2.4.2.
Verbs.Verbs and adjectives are assigned mostly selection restrictions.
Onlytwo features in our verb lists describe the verb itself.
The first of theseis PX (for "prefix "), in which slot we spell out the specific separableprefix or adprep with which a verb may occur.
All other features re-fer to the combination verb stem + prefix or adprep.
The second verbfeature which is not a selection restriction is " type ", which only indi-cates, redundantly, whether the verb is transitive, intransitive, or re-flexive; also indicated are the small classes of transitive verbs whichmay not be passivized and of English verbs which do not form theprogressive.Verb selection restrictions are syntactic form and semantic typeof subject and objects required; multiple objective are indicated by a" + " and given in the order direct object - indirect object.
All possibletypes of complements are indicated except, of course, the free ones,such as the benefactive dative, adverbial infinitive phrases, etc.
(Fora list of syntactic omplement markers, cf.
p. 329; verbs and adjectivesmay also have features indicating NP complements, with case indicationin German).
For example, the English verb please is coded as follows:vON(C)FS(N;CL)TS(E ;TH, MI, ICL, FT, GR)FC(NP, LA;rCP)TC(HU, LA;HU)BEYOND THE FEASIBILITY STUDY: LEXICOGRAPHIC PROGRESS 331The features indicate that this verb may occur with a noun phraseor a clausal subject; if the subject is a noun phrase, it may be of anysemantic type and the verb takes an optional noun phrase object ofthe semantic type "human "; if its subject is a clause, it may be athat-clause, a marked infinitive, an interrogative adverb followed by aclause, a for-to construction, or a gerund; in any of these cases, theverb takes an obligatory human object.In addition to these selection restrictions, verbs which require anadverbial complement have a feature indicating the specific type ofadverb, as e.g.
the feature " requires an adverb of direction " for theEnglish verb put.
Verbs which may optionally occur with an adverbof direction are given a special marker.
It may be of interest that thisclass of verb is not identical with the semantic lass of motion verbsbecause it includes uch verbs as extend, look, etc.Finally, we have the two features " interpretation f surface subject"and "interpretation of surface object ", which indicate such surface- deep s~ructure r lations as in the pair of translation equivalents fail -mil~gliicken, which I described earlier.2.4.3.
Phrasal Verbs.The problem of phrasal verbs, of course, cannot be solved in surfaceanalysis, with a surface dictionary, since they can occur discontinuouslyand in various permuted word orders, and since their meanings, transla-tions and features cannot be derived from their individual compo-nents.
Our surface dictionary only tags the one-word verbs and the nounswhich may form part of such a phrasal lexical item.
The full verb phras-es are entered as lexical units in our verb phrase lists and given thesame types of features as normal one-word verbs.Some of these phrasal items have internal slots, usually possessivepronouns.
These are indicated by different descriptors within the phras-al entry, denoting reflexive and non-reflexive possessive pronoun slots.Typical examples with such variables are(etw.)
zu jds.
Kenntnis bringen = notify, inform sb.
(of sth.
)with a possessive pronoun slot, andseinen Anfang nehmen ~ beginawith a reflexive possessive pronoun slot.332 ANNETTE STACHOWITZThese lexical entries are not meant for surface analysis but are ap-plied to analyze re-ordered versions of surface strings, the so-called"standard strings ", in which the components of phrasal elements arecontiguous and occur in a pre-determined order.
In this analysis, suchphrases are assigned the features and translations which pertain to thewhole phrasal unit.2.4.4.
Adjectives.As indicated earlier, the only semantic lasses of adjectives whichwe mark are tough movement adjectives and those which modifyonly the verbal aspect of the noun, as described by ZENO VENDtER inhis Transformational Grammar of English Adjectives.
A typical exampleof adjective feature may be given in the English adjective ager:AON(V)VU(NV)TU(a2V)VC(CL, LA)TC(MI, LA)= EAGERThe features given are to be read as: " This adjective must take a sub-ject in the form of an NP which belongs to the semantic subclass'animate '.
It takes an optional complement in the form of a markedinfinitive ", as in He is eager.
He is eager to please.
Since a marked in-finitive subject is not permitted by this description, we prevent analysisand generation of*To please him is eager.
This automatically puts eagerinto a different class from that of easy, whose description includesmarked infinitive subjects.2.4.5.
Adverbs, Prepositions and Conjunctions.Our classification system for adverbs, prepositions and conjunctionsis, as yet, very tentative.
It includes classes like place and time, placebeing subdivided into static, direction to, and direction from, time intopunctual, duration, and frequency for some items, present, past andfuture for other items, and, where relevant, into prior to, simultaneous,and posterior to.
Some other classes are modal, divided into manner,BEYOND THE FEASIBILITY STUDY: LEXICOGRAPHIC PROGRESS 333comparison, and restrictive; degree, cause, purpose, instrumental.
Theseclasses are used for adverbs, prepositions, and conjunctions.
Adverbshave, in addition, a feature indicating whether they may modify verbs,adverbs, numbers, noun phrases, adjectives, or full sentences; if theymodify only declarative sentences or only questions or only negatedsentences, this fact is indicated.
We also classify adverbs like rather orclearly as being restricted to co-occurrence with certain types of subjectsor verbs, respectively, rather requiring an animate subject, clearly (asverb modifier) a verb of mental activity.
In general, we try to indicateall restrictions we can formulate.Prepositions have, in addition to semantic type, a feature indicatingthe semantic type of noun with which they are used.
This informationmay serve to select one of several readings of the preposition, as inthe case of the German preposition ach, which indicates direction ifit occurs with a noun of the type "location name ", as in nach Europa(to, towards Europe), time if it occurs with any type of noun, as in nachdieser Konferenz (after this conference) and reference if it occurs with ahuman noun, as in nach Dr. yon Braun (according to Dr. yon Braun).3.
CONCLUSION: PROJECTED WORKI hardly need to point out that the lexicographic work I have describ-ed is only a start.
Much more work is necessary, guided by the expe-rience we are gathering along the way and that of others who areworking on various problems in lexicography and linguistics in ge-neral.Our most immediate task is extending our classification system,especially for the semantic lassification of verbs and adjectives.
Studyof various sub--lists of our initially classified lexical data should be veryhelpful in this work.Also of great importance is the establishment of restrictive glosseswhere syntactic and semantic features and our present very general"subject area restrictors " are not sufficient.
Thus, we will have toinclude information which is rarely given explicitly in conventionaldictionaries.
Wildhagen, for example, sometimes gives in parenthesisfor verb entries ample subjects or objects which indicate to the humanreader what general kind of subject or object must be used.
This typeof information is sometimes the only way to distinguish the differentreadings, and therefore, translations or synonyms, of a lexical item.334 ANNETTE STACHOWITZConsider, for example, the German verb einhalten.
If its object is clothor something made of cloth, its translations into English is gather; ifits object is a movement, a gesture, etc., its translation is check; withan object like law, contract, date, diet, anything which signifies a ruleof some kind, its translation is observe; with path, way, course, etc.it is translated as follow.
The information which lets us choose the cor-rect one from all these readings must be incorporated in the selectionrestrictions of the verb and in the feature system of the nouns.Currently, our word lists include derivational forms and compounds.We are planning a study of these items to determine to which extenttheir syntactic and semo-syntactic features can be derived from thoseof the underlying roots and affixes.
The development of productivederivational and compounding rule systems would, of course, resultin a considerable r duction in the size of the dictionary.The lists resulting from our work will be appended to our futureprogress reports.
Two intermediate lists have already appeared in ourreport on Research in German-English Machine Translation on SyntacticLevel of August, 1970 and in Normalization of Natural Language forInformation Retrieval, 1971.
A comprehensive d scription of our lexico-graphic work is contained in our two most recent reports, Develop-ment of German-English Machine Translation System, of July 1973 andSeptember 1973.We hope that our lexicographic work will not only result in theconstruction of an MT dictionary but will also provide informationwhich may prove interesting and useful to linguists in general.1LEFE1LENCESA.
S, HOaNBY, E. V. GATENBY, H.WAI~mtD, The Advanced Learner'sDictionary of Current English, SecondEdition, London, 1963.W.
P. LEHMANN, R.. A. STACHOWITZ,?
Research in German-English MachineTranslation on Syntactic Level, VolumeII, RADC-TR.-69-368, Linguistics Re-search Center, The University ofTexas at Austin, 1970.W.
P. LEHMANN, R. A., STACHOWITZ,Normalization of Natural Language forInformation Retrieval, Final TechnicalReport, Linguistics Research Center,The University of Texas at Austin,1972.Z.
VI~ND:tER, Transformational Grammar ofEnglish Adjectives, in a Transformationsand Discourse Analysis Papers ~ No.52, University of Pennsylvania, Trans-formations and Discourse AnalysisProject, Philadelphia, 1963.K.
WILD~Gr2~, W. H~AUCOUR~:, En-glish-German, German-English Dictio-nary, Volume II, German-English,Wiesbaden, 1953.
