SCIENCE OF THE STROKE SEQUENCE OF KANJITakeshi SHIMOMURATechnical College of Osaka PrefectureNeyagawa-shi, Osaka 572, JAPANSummaryThe stroke sequence of kanji hasbeen investigated chiefly from the view-point of energy in the dynamics of writ-ing together with the informationalviewpoint in memorization in learning.Sample characters include all themembers for daily use, and alsokatakana.
The results show that thestandard sequence fundamentally followsthe law of energy minimization in writ-ing movements, The degree of satisfac-tion is highest for the vertical succes-sion among practical writ ing conditions.The standard sequence is considered tooriginate from the human adaptation forcircumstances.
As for the characterswith more strokes, it is found that toadd the contribution of easy memori-zation by compression of informationcontent of the sequence, the law issatisfied by selection of the sequenceof sub-systems in place of individualstrokes.
These results indicate thatthe stroke sequence greatly affects thehuman abil ity of kanji processing.i.
IntroductionIn general the standard strokesequence is tradit ionally designated foreach kanji(and also its offspring lettersas katakana), and both in cal l igraphyand in primary education, writ ingcharacters according to the standard isimposed.
But the unknown origin preventsjustifying the observance.
And alsorecently the stroke sequece has applica-tions in engineering as kanj i -recognit ionand so on.
Actually, however, some vari-eties in existence pose some problems.In view of these situations,clar i f icat ion of scientific basis of thestandard sequence will be not a littlevaluable to the above fields and alsoto serve as an aid to explicate theintrinsic nature of the character inlinguistics.In this report the considerationsfrom the viewpoint of energy in thedynamics of writ ing is extended, and thestudy of contribution to easy memoriza-tion, the possibi l i ty of which wasalready suggested by the author as anadditional factor for the characterswith more strokesl),are developed, byaiming at the total research on thetraditional standard sequence.2.
The Stroke Sequence on HypothesisIn writ ing kanji, if the shapealone is enough, the direction and thesequence are various and therefore agreat number of ways of writ ing producedby their combinations will be possible.What is the reason for a specifiedsequence selected as the standard ?By daily experiences, it seems to theauthor that according to the standardsequence "easy, rapid and beautiful"writ ing is possible to be accomplished.Now, putting aside the factor of beautyfor the moment, it can be thought that"ease and rapidness" means the standardsequence is one requiring as littleenergy consumption as possible in writ-ing movements.
And therefore this studybegan with building up a hypothsis thatthe standard sequence satisfies the lawof energy minimization and verifying byelectronic computation for the kanjisamples with fewer strokes.
1 ) As forkanjis with more strokes, in additionto the contribution to wr i t ing move-ments, the standard sequence is assumedto have an effect to ease the memoriza-tion of kanji, i.e.
a contribution toreduce information content, which isstudied by the use of the theory ofinformation.3.
Modell ing of the Writing Movementsand the Rank DistancesIf the directions of strokes areconventional ly fixed, kanjis withn-strokes have as many possiblesequences as n!.
The energy consumed inwrit ing depends on pen-path length, penvelocity, pen pressure and so on.
Forsimplicity, assuming that velocity andpressure are constant and the effectsof direction and others are negligible,the energy is reduced to a function ofpen-path length alone.
Pen-pathconsists of stroke vectors and stroke-with-stroke combining vectors for asingle character, and in case ofcharacter succession, character-with-character combining vectors add to this.Sample kanjis used number 1850 fordaily use.
The character form employedis of square-style and each stroke isapproximated by a straight line.
Ascircumstances for character, an appro-priate field is assumed and the situa-tions of singleness and character- - -270  -successions in three different direc-tions are introduced by the boundarycondition setting.The process of verifying thehypothesis is to calculate the energyconsumption in all the possiblesequences for normalized standard kanjisamples and to examine whether the energyconsumption for the standard sequence isin the lowest.The results of electronic computa-tion show, as a whole, the hypothesis isfairly well satisfied, as an example ofwhich the degree of satisfaction isshown in Tab.
1 by the rank distance Dfor samples of not more than 6 strokes,where D is defined asD = \[(k - l)/(n!
- I)\] x i00 (%)when the standard one is in the k-thfrom the lowest in energy.
Among these,the relationship of D and cumulativenumber of characters N (%) for 6-strokecharacters, for example, is shown inFig.
i.
As for katakana, the perfectsatisfaction D = 0 holds good for morethan 60% of all the samples in thevert ical ly downward succession conditionand the anisotropy is quite small.In Tab.
i, all the samples of notmore than two strokes are independentof either singleness or succession, andof its direction, and completely opti-mized, which fact is suitable to thenature as the most fundamental consti-tuent, together with katakana, in kanj isystem.
Though with the number ofstrokes per character increasing, somesmall spreading of D and anisotropyappear, the whole trend can still beseen to support the hypothesis.
Here itis noticeable that human abil ity ofselection through the cumulative experi-ences is splendidly high: in spite ofthe number of possible sequences n!abruptly increasing with increment ofstrokes, perfect satisfaction is foundin quite a few samples.
( In case of 5-stroke samples, for instance, in whichn!
= 120, optimum holds good in morethan 20% of them !
)Some difference in the degree ofsatisfaction by differnt environmentsis also observed.
The degree is highestfor vertical succession among practicalwriting conditions, which correspondswell to the traditional kanji call!gra-phical modes in past China and Japan.The history of the standardsequence has been rather stable, inconnection with the past stable modes,in which,however, some examples changedexist.
And the inspection of their D'sindicates that the transitions aremostly towards the lowest.
New phenomenaobserved now about the sequence aremostly related to the recent change incircumstances.
These facts assure thatthe stadard sequence can be regarded asan example of human adaptation forcircumstances.These characterist ics of thestandard sequence agree with the generalfeatures of the natural language as asocial custom.
(Though the above-mentioned considerations were performedunder the condition of the fixed direc-tions of stroke vectors, the directionitself is clarif ied to follow the lawof energy minimization by introducingdirection dependence in energy consump-tion per path-length.)4.
The Structure of Kant!
andMemorizat ionSome small D's spreading phenomenawith increasing strokes per charactersuggest an additional factor existing.With this respect, in the previousreport, possible relevancy to facili-tation of memorization, i.e.
the effecton reducing information content, wasjust point out.
1 ) Here this factor isexamined, with correlation to the kanjistructure, by the aid of the informa-tion theory.Information for writ ing kanji isassumed to be input to/output from thememory device of the cerebrum as asymbol string of kanji-forming strokevectors.
In the following calculations,encoding only about direction isemployed for simplicity, putting asideposit ion and magnitude.
Quantizationis in 8 different directions accordingto the traditional call igraphy.
( Thecase in which simplif ied to 5 direc-tions is also considered.
)At the first stage, the amount ofinformation by the statistcs of thedirection occurrence frequency, multi-grams, etc.
about all the samples iscalculated, and possibi l i ty of datacompression is analysed by the theoriesof Markov process and encoding.By the results, mean informationcontent per stroke by the transit ionprobabil ity in Markov chain, is foundto be only about 10% less than that byfrequency statistics.
Great reductionof information amount is, therefore,unpromising as far as a stroke is thestring element even if the transit ionprobabil ity is learned.Next consideration is on compress-bil ity of data by deriding strokestring into sections, i.e.
reduGtion byforming a kind of supersymbol, 2) viewedfrom transinformation between strokes.At the same time, as a graded structureis observed in the stroke symbol string,271transinformation content between compoundevents and possibi l i ty of compressionare also calculated by setting eachprevious section as an encoding element,in which a close coupling relation isfound between them, such as the trans-information amount between compoundelements of 3-strokes, is about tentimes as much as in case of sectioning.These results suggest a possibi lty ofcompression to about a half or less.And then, therefore, the reductionof information content for all thesamples by selecting suitable sub-systems like the traditional radicals,etc.
as compound element, is examined.With this respect, however, besides ourcalculat ion a similar study for oth@rpurpose has already been reported.
3)With some different viewpoints included,it is thought sufficient to cite hereinstead, for the estimation of this.By their data, the whole informationamount can be reduced to as small as40% of the amount in case that theindividual stroke is the element.In view of these facts on informa-tion,the satisfaction of the law ofenergy minimization in the dynamics ofwriting is examined again by unit ofsub-system.
That is, by expressingsub-system in terms of a cummulativevector, the similar calculations to theprevious chapter are performed.
And theresults prove the law is well satisfied,for instance, for about 450 samplescomposed of two sub-systems, each ofwhich is again the member of samples,more than 99% of all are optimized inthe vertical succession condition.The system of kanji is, by origin,of a graded structure, and most sub-systems like radicals have importantsymbolic functions such as phoneticvalue, meaningful element, etc..Therefore, as for characters compound instructure, the stroke sequence deter-mined by selection of sequence of sub-systems has an effect to fully function-ate these symbolic actions, by whichgenerating additional redundancy inhuman processor is expectable.By the above considerations, it isclarif ied that for a simple characterwith fewer strokes, the standard strokesequence is determined by the energyminimization in writ ing and that acompound character with more strokesare of mult iplex structure, where theenergy minimizat ion is satisfied byselecting the sequence of memorization-facil itating sub-systems whose strokesequences have previously been decidedby the energy minimization.5.
ConclusionThis investigation leads to thefollowing conclusion: the traditionalstandard stroke sequence of kanji isthought as a human experiential resulttoward the optimization of writ ing andmemorizat ion in learning.
And thesequence, therefore, greatly affectshuman abil ity of l inguistic activit iesusing kanji.6.
AcknowledgementsThe author would like to expresshis cordial thanks both to Emerit.Prof.E.Sugata and to Prof. Y.Inuishi of OsakaUniversity for their useful advice andencouragements throughout this investi-gation.
Sincere appreciation is alsoshown to Prof. S.I j ichi of our collegefor his support and facilities, and tomy students for their experimentalassistance.Referencesl) T. Shimomura: A Scientif ic Approachto the Stroke Sequence of ChineseCharacters, Trans.
I.E.C.Japan,58-D,12,756 (1975)2) F. yon Cube: Ueber ein Verfahren dermechanischen Didaktik, Gr.K.G.~, 1 (1961)3) T. Sakai, M. Nagao,and H. Terai: ADescription of Chinese CharactersUsing Sub-patterns, Johoshori(Journ.
I.P.S.Japan),l_0,5,285(1969)- 272 'Tab.
1 Average  Rank D is tance  D (%)number of number ofstrokes samples1 12 53 21345 586 73conditionssuccession singleness diagonal vertical horizontal0016.218.512.510.40013.3ll.07.55.30015.215 .ii0.i8.70017 .i20.213.8ii .7i0075?KD500~ 25Directions of succession?
?
Diagonalo--4 VerticalA Singlenesss--~ HorizontalO J l io 25 50 75 io0Rank D is tance  D (%)Fig.
1 Cumulat ive  Number  of Characters  andRank D is tance  for 6 -s t roke  Characters--273--
