A MACHINE TRANSLATION SYSTEMFROM JAPANESE INTO ENGLISH BASED ON CONCEPTUAL STRUCTUREHiroshi Uchida and Kenji SugiyamaFUJITSU LABORATORIES LTD.1015, Kamikodanaka, Nakahara-kuKawasaki 211, JAPANs um___~m a r___!yIn this paper a language transla-tion system based on conceptual struc-ture is described.
The conceptualstructure is extended from case grammarfrom practical viewpoints.
The concep-tual structure is composed of conceptsand relations among them; in our system,a given Japanese text is transformedinto conceptual structure, and then anEnglish text is generated from it.In this paper, the needs and bene-fits in introducing conceptual structureas intermediate representation are dis-cussed, and then the construct of con-ceptual Structure, and in what way oursystem utilizes it in a translation pro-cess are described.I.
IntroductionIt is believed that, in the courseof development of present informationsociety, the amount of documents, suchas technical writings, correspondences,to be exchanged in every internationalcommunity has become huge.
This greatamount of documents have to be translat-ed since no unique universal language isavailable.
But obviously, there is adefinite limitation on translation speedby hand.
This situation urges on us theimportance of development of a machinetranslation system.Around 1960 when computers werebecoming widely used, various experimen-tal studies were done on machine trans-lation.
However, most of them broughtabout almost no commercial products, andshortly after that, even such kind ofresearchs seem to have disappeared.Among a few developed systems of thatperiod, only the Russian-Englishtranslation systems, MARK2 used by theU.S.
Air Force and another used by theAtomic Energy Commission at Aok ridgewhich was designed at Georgetown Univer-sity, were widely known.
The revisedversion of the latter system namedSYSTRAN, has been on the market, and iscurrently being used by the EC and otherfew organizations.
At that time, a'word-for-word' translation was shieflyconsidered.
Such systems are classifiedin first generation translation sys-tems 2After first generation systems,second generation translation systemswhich rely on intermediate languagemodel instead of a 'word-for-word'translation, are now under development.The features in the approaches of thisnew generation systems are:(I) it performs a translation betweenintermediate languages constructedover source language (SL) and targetlanguage (TL) respectively (calledtransfer approach ), as shown infig.
I,(2) it encourages to separate linguis-tic data from programs 2.In the transfer approach, theintermediate languages are stronglyrequired to retain the characteristics(including syntactical charcterlistics)of the original ones.
This approachseems to be effective for translationamong languages of the same linguisticfamily (in the sence that there aresimilall it ies in syntax and meaning of atext inSourceLanguage(SL)analysisintermediate representation II transferI text inTargetLanguage(TL)_ I synthesisintermediate 1epresentation~tFig.l Translation Model ofTransfer Approach.--455--word) such as English, German, andFrench, because translation of words andsome transformation on syntactic struc-tures are merely needed.
However, it isnot seemed to be quite effective whenperforming translation among non-relatedlanguages, for example, Japanese andEnglish, because of the need for largestructural transformation.
Among exam-ples of this approach are TAUM ofUniversity of Montreal and GETA ofGrenoble University~In our translation system fromJapanese into English, conceptual struc-ture is introduced and utilized intranslation process.In this paper, we discuss why con-ceptural structure is needed, what beni-fits are obtained from our approach,what conceptual structure i s ,  and inwhat way our system performs.2.
Need for Conceptual StructureLet us think of the process we takefor natural language translation.
Dopeople really construct intermediaterepresentation for both SL and TL, andthen carry out translation between them?Surely they don't.
Instead, whentranslating, they first understand themeaning of a text, and then perform itstranslation.
Furthermore, in additionto explicit meaning in the text, theyusually comprehend implicit meaningbehind word order (i.e., syntactic in-formation), and a choice of words by thewriter.
In other words, to understand atext is to extract concepts representedby words or phrases and their mutualrelaions from a text.Therefore, from this obsevation, wecan conclude correct translation cannotbypass intermediate semantic representa-tion of sentences (we call conceptualstructure ) in the process of transla-tion.
This conceptual structure is con-structed upon concepts in SL, but theseconcepts are considered as universalygeneral to the extent that they can betranslated into any languages.
That isbecause it is considered peoples willonly create concepts which can be under-stood by every people since they sharethe same space and physical laws intheir life on the globe.In a case where a concept in onelanguage does not correspond to one inother language, it is supposedly possi-ble to express such a concept with otherconcepts in another language.
In thissence, we can assume every concept hasuniversality so that it is always possi-ble to find a word or a phraserepresenting a given concept.As i l l us t ra ted  in fig.
2, in atranslation process from language A intoB, conceptual structure is constructedfrom concepts in A, and subsequently isrepresented with language B.
There alsoexists reverse process, namely from Binto A.
Some concepts of a language maynot fit in any concept of the other one.In this case, it is translated byparaphrasing with available concepts.text in language AI 1und mdingof meat Lngtext in language Btranslationinto language Atranslationinto language BH ~conceptual structure based on Iconcepts in language A I(intersection)conceptual structure based onconcepts in language Bunderstandingof meaningFig.2 A Model of Human Translation Procedure.--456--Apparently correct translation can-not be expected only with informationof 'surface structure'.
Thus concept~aIstructure plays an important role fortranslation, but incorporating it into amachine translation system will bringout diff iculties, such as how to extractmeanings out of sentences, and how torepresent meanings in conceptural struc-ture.
Nevertheless, we do consider ourapproach is better than transfer ap-proach, because the latter might involvemuch more complex treatment, as dis-cussed later.
From the above argumentsand the fact that our approach is closerto the process we human beings use, webelieve ours is more practical andpromising than transfer approach.3.
Usefulness of Conceptual StructureIn what follows, advantages inadopting conceptual structure as anintermediate language for a machinetranslation system are described.3.1 Separation of Syntax and SemanticsIn our approach, first, conceptsand relations among them are extractedto construct conceptual structure;next, then it is re-expressed in thetarget language.
In this scheme, syn-tactical information of the sourcelanguage does not affect on the secondstep, and conversely, syntactical regu-lations of target language do not affectthe first step.However, in transfer approach ittries to convert intermediate structureof the source language to another inter-mediate structure of the targetlanguage, and the translation processcannot be essential ly freed from thecharacteristics of both languages; inother words, syntactical and semanticalmatters have to be attacked at one time,and this increased complexity seems tomake itself inferior to our approach.
(However, when SL and TL are in the samelinguistic family, transfer approachmight be more suitable.
)3.2 Availabil ity of DiscourseInformationDiscourse information is an inevit-able thing in order to comprehend sen-tences of a natural language, so unlessusing it~ correct translation cannot beexpected.
In our approach, the meaningof a sentence is represented by concep-tural network (which will be defined insection 4), and discourse informationwill be also composed of these networks.This scheme, that is, discourseinformation and sentence meanings areexpressed by the same construct, bringsus a great convenience to make use ofdiscourse information in process oftranslation, as well as to accumulatethat of sentences transacted so far.3 .3  Advantage in Translation among Many~anguagesThere are many languages being usedin the world, and even if we only countthe languages of importance, the numberof them is still large.
Our translationsystem aims at translation betweenJapanese and English language, specifi-cally from Japanese into English, but inthe ordinary course of events, it willbe applied to other languages in future.When doing translation among manylanguages the work needed will be beyondour power if transfer approach ischosen, becouse it requires to supplydifferent programs and dictionaries fortransfer portion of every pair of inter-mediate languages.On the other hand, our approach hasonly single conceptual structure, so itonly requires to add analysis and syn-thesis procedures for one distinctlanguage (although in our approach, con-cepts which constitutes concepturalstructure might be defined somewhat dif-ferently, we believe most of conceptsare common).
This is one of the advan-tages over transfer approach in transla-tion among many languages.4.
Conceptual StructureThe meaning of a sentence is ex-pressed by concepts represented by wordsor phrases, and relations among them.The concept is what is recognized by usabstracting general factors in eventsand objects (abstraction), but excludingpecurial it ies to each of them (subtrac-tion).In our model, a node represents aconcept, and an arc represents a rela-tion beween concepts.
This constitutesa network representing conceptual struc-ture, and we also call such a network--457--conceptual  structure.
This conceptualstructure is based on the case grammarby Fi l lmore I, but is extended for prac-tical use.Roughly speaking, concepts in ourmodel  is fourfold:(I) to represent  an object(corresponding to a class of nourish,(2) to represent  mot ion (verbs~,(3) to represent  the nature or stateof an object (adjeet ives) ,(4) to represent  the nature or stateof motion (adverbs).There are re lat ions between con-cepts of an 8rb i tar i ly  chosen pair ofthe above classes.
For instance, thereis a relat ion between noun and nounclass to express "possesion" or "place",and a re lat ion between noun and verbclass to express "actor",  "place", or"purpose."
Some concepts and re lat ionsare shown in table I.
The symbols inthis table are cal led semantic symbols.c lass exampleverb give, walk,ad ject ive beaut i fu l ,  red,noun I, he, book,Tanaka, Johnson,adverb slowly, always,(a) Concepts  (node).Table 1 Concepts  and Relat ionsclass arc name exp lanat ionshows tense modi f ie r  ofconceptsre lat ionbetweenact ion conceptand otherspast, present,futuretemporary,may, mustactorcauserobjectpropertyto(direct ion)f rom(direct ion)at(t ime)after(t ime)before(t ime)meansposses ivecausereasonmodi f iershows aspect ormodalwho doeswho causes an act ionthe object  which is a f fectedby an act ionproperty  or state of anact ion or an objectd i rect ion  of act ionthe t ime when an act ionOccursmethod by which a result  isobta inedposses ive  re lat ioncause of an act ionreason of an act ionsimple modi f i cat ion(b) Relat ion between Concepts  (arc).Table i. Concepts  and Relat ions between Concepts.--458--4.1 Level of Concept in ConceptualStructureThe meaning of a sentence is ex-pressed by conceptual structure, anddeciding in what level such a conceptshould be expressed is an importantmatter.
That is, the possibil ity toconstruct a translation system dependson the level of concepts.
For example,"~I~~,~ a ~ %~ < ~<.
"can be expressed with several levels ofconcepts:i) let "~ (kare:he)", "{~(sense i :teacher)", and " ~'9 ~ ~ % ~ < ~ <(iukoto wo yoku KIKu: De loyal to,obey)" be concepts,2) separate "~,9 a ~ % ~ < ~< " into"~9(say)" ,  "a ~(thing)", "~ <(fre-quently)", and "~<( l i s ten  andobey)".3) further, separate a verb " "into primitive elements as Schank hasdone 3 as illustrated in fig.
3, where" " is defined to satisfy one'smind by directing ears toward him.In the third method, however,although the model is cleared up becauseof limited primitives, it is notguaranteed that any meaning could beexpressed with them.
It seems that wecould not even know how to choose primi-tives to express a wide class of mean-ings.
Furthermore, diff iculties in sen-tence synthesis seem to be a barrier forpractical use.
In addition, when peopleextract conceptrual structure out of atext in process of translation, they donot seem to separate each concept intoelements.
From these observations, theabove third level of concepts has beenrejected for our model.On the other hand, the opositedirection in terms of level, that is, tointroduce compound concepts (usually torepresent more complicated concepts)into conceptual structure will make con-text available from sentences be hiddenbehind them.
Nevertheless, compoundconcepts are allowed in our system be-cause availabil ity of arbitrary level ofconcepts enables the system to handleidiomatic expressions and other compoundexpressions in s straighforward way ---without transforming them into compli-cated conceptual network (this advantageis also recognized in transfer ap-proach).As an example, a concept networkfor~a~,  "is depicted in fig.
4.
What this figureexplains are:There is "~7(show)"  as in a class ofverb whose tense is present, and theplace where it occurs is explained by"~(tab le)" ;  the object of '~#show)"is a concept of "~\[~(specification)",and it is connected to "LSI" by a'theme' relation; "LSI" is an objectof verbial concept ' i~(use)"  , and has'aspect' relation of continuation;"gx  9/,(system)" has 'modifying'relation of " ~:(this)"4.2 Causative Sentence and VoiceCausative sentence is typicallyrecognized by an existence of 'causer'relation.A sentence is classified into pas-sive or active voice.
Sould voiceconcept be also incorporated in a con-cept network like tense, aspect, andmodal?
We consider that writer's choiceof voice is not necessarily dominant inconveying meaning; passive voice isoften chosen when an actor is of noimportance or unnecessary like in "The(he)~ATTEND ~object(ears)~direct ion ~ (teacher)~ reason MENTAL.
STATE (satisfied) r (teacher) ~ J~-~MENTAL .
STATE (normal)Fig.3 Conceptual Representation with Primitive Concepts.--459--rocket was launched."
At present, so wethink the difference of voice is notnecessarily explicit in conceptualstructure; when generating an Englishsentence, passive voice is used whenactor is omitted in a concept network.5.
Translation ProcedureOur translation procedure is illus-trated in fig.
5, and is described inthe following.
First, the system inputsa Japanese sentence and separates itinto 'bunsetsu's, then analyzes rela-tions among them to obtain which 'bun-setsu' modifies which 'bunsets' Thisinformation represents the syntax struc-ture of the sentence, and is output in aform of 'bunsetsu'-table.
Based uponthis table, concept structure is con-structed.
Notice, in this structure,syntactical information or words pecu-liar to the source language is not con-tained.
Next, English phrase for eachsemantic symbol (attached to a node\] isobtained by consulting a dictionarydata.
In this process, many candidatesof English phrase may be found, but themost suitable one is chosen.
Further,important grammatical imformation, suchas subject, object, or compliment is setto each arc.
Finally, these Englishphrases are synthesized into an Englishsentece applying English grammar andmodification of words if necessary.5.1 Analysis of Japanese LanguageIn Japanese written language, eachword in a sentence is not separated by aspace like in English; a sentence isusually a succession of words (see I ofpre sentcontinuous ~.
.Ipresent;e~ position ( in~ .
.
.
.
modifier ~..... system I this Jrobjecttheme'specificationTobject position (in)show, | _,J' (table)JFig.
4 Conceptual Structure.Japanese textAnalysis of 1Japanese sentenceI'bunsetsu'-tableI"construction ofconceptual structure iEnglish texti synthesis of "iL English .. sentenceEnglish ohrase structure~ generation ofEnglish phrase structureconceptual structure , ~Fig.5 Translation Process.--460--fig.6).
For recognition of each word(see 2 of fig.6), we use adjunctive con-dition of words; in a Japanese sentence,"~=~%S~y~(watash i  ga kate ni honwo ageta: I gave him a book)", " 9~ " canfollow "watashi", and "9~" can be fol-lowed by "~" .
but succession of "~"and "~"  is not allowed.
This adjunc-tive relation provides us with verypowerful word separation method.
(How-ever, since there are many homonyms inJapanese, 100 per cent of correctseparation is theoretically impossible.But neary 100 per cent correct separa-tion is being obtained.
This matter isnot discussed in this paper in moredetail.
)'Bunsetsu's are thus recognized asin 3 of fig.6, each of which is composedof 'jiritsu-go' and 'juzoku-go'.
Then,kakariuke'-condition is used to analyzethe 'kakariuke' between 'bunsetsu's.
Asin 4 of fig.6, 'bunsetsu' "~,"  does notmodify "~ ~=" nor "~ %" but "~y ~ "This is because ,kakariuke'-conditioncontains a rule that "~,"  only modifiesa predicate "~ly~ " but not others.This 'kakariuke'-condition depends onsyntactic features of 'junsetsu'In order to identify 'kakariuke'relations more minute information isneeded.
For example, in fig.
7," ~ ~<~ (kawa no kaban: a bag ofleather)", semantic information shouldbe used to know aux i l i a ry  word "~ "after "~"  specifies the kind of materi"al of "~,~Z (bag)"I__J \[Fig.6 An Example of Japanese Analysis.Fig.7 An Example of 'Kakariuke' relation.5.2 Construction of Conceptual NetworkFrom the 'bunsetsu'-table obtainedin the previous step, a condeprual net-work is constructed with an aid of se-mantic symbol table which supplies sym-bols for Japanese words, phrase, or'kakariuke'-relations.In a conceptual network, a noderepresents a concept corresponding toverb, noun, adjective, or adverb ofJapanese, and an arc represents func-tional meaning, such as an auxiliaryword " (about)"5.3 Generation of English PhraseStructureTo generate English phrase struc-ture (i.e., conceptual structure withsyntax roles and English phrase attachedto nodes and arcs), there is data foreach semantic symbol, such as Englshphrase (possibly a word) and its syntac-tic type (noun, adjective, verb, and soon).
Also, informatin of sentencestructure which a phrase takes isprovided.
That structural informationdecides the kind of syntax role, such assubject, object, compliment, to be puton an arc.
In this phrase structure,verb, adjective, or noun is put on anode, and conjunction, preposition, orrelations (such as "which", "where") isput on an arc.5.4 Synthesis of English SentenceIn accordance to syntactical infor-mation given in English phrase struc-ture, English sentence is generated fromEnglish phrases put on arcs and nodes.In this process, verb, adjective, ad-verb, and noun are modified to fit inwith a sentence to generate; for exam-pie, verb "see" is modified to "saw" iftense is specified so.6.
ConclusionAn experiment of our system on 10pages text from a computer system manual(approximately 230 sentences included)is currently under way.
The results sofar is farely good and we would like tocomment on this after the data is col-lected.One of the possible extension ofour system is an automated abstractionsystem, that is, to generate an abstracton a given text.
To do that, we need to--461--distinguish the equality of concepts ofdifferent levels (discussed in section4) for handling context among sentences.For example, in "There came a girl whowas attractive."
and "...that honey...",an attractive girl and the honey have tobe identified in order to clearify logi-cal relatinship.
The conceptual struc-ture thus obtained resembles paragraphstructure proposed by Schank 4 .
Thiswould be a first step towards an au-tomated machine abstraction of writings.AcknowledgmentWe would like to thank Masato Kobe,and Tatsuy~ Hayashi who gave helpfulsuggestions through many discussions,and also would like to thank SanyaUehara for his assitance in preparingthis paper.References\[!\] Fil lmore,C.J.
:"The case for case" inBach,E.,  Harms,R.(eds.
): "Universalsin Linguistic Theory",Holt, Rinehartand Winston, New York, 1968.\[2\] Hutchins,W.J.
:"Progress in Documen-tation Machine Translation and Ma-chine-aided translatlon , Journalof Documentation, vol.34, No2, June1978.\[3\] Schank,R.C.
:"Conceptual TnformationProcessing",North-Holland PublishingCompany-Amsterdam,1975.\[4\] Schank,R.C.
:"The Structure of Epi-sodes in Memory" in Bobrow,D.G.
andCollins,A (eds.
):"Representation andUnderstanding",Academic Press, 1975.--462--
