A CHINESE CHARACTERS CODING SCHEME FOR COMPUTER INPUT AND INTERNAL STORAGEChorkin Chan, Computer Centre, University of Hong Kong, Hong KongAbstractA coding scheme for inputting Chinesecharacters by means of a conventionalkeyboard has been developed.
The codefor each Chinese character is composedof two strings of keys, one correspondsto the spell ing and the other the ideo-graphic property of the character.
Eachcode requires no more than seven keys(average five and a half keys) and 99.5%of the ten thousand characters in adictionary 'XianDai HanYu CiDian' haveunique codes.
Each input code can bepacked into 32 bits for internalrepresentation.Introductionof eighteen pairs can be easily removedby deleting one member of each pair fromthe vocabulary because they are either'dead' characters appearing in ancientclassics only or they can be replaced byother characters of equivalent meaning.The non-uniqueness of the remainingeight pairs can be removed also byeither changing the ideographic patternor the spell ing of one of the members ineach pair.
Thus, by means of theseremedial measures, this coding schemeoffers a unique code to each of the tenthousand characters found in this dic-tionary.
The list of characters sharingthe same codes is in Table 1 togetherwith the suggested remedies to overcomethe problem of non-uniqueness.Over the last few years, encodingChinese characters has become a veryactive subject of research.
Numerouspapers have appeared, mainly written inChinese (hence diff icult to be refer-enced in English), proposing variouskinds of inputting schemes.
Unfortun-ately, most of these papers offered onlythe ideas without accompanying implemen-tation and experimentation.
This paperpresents a coding scheme of Chinesecharacters based on their ideographicproperties as well as their spell ings sothat a conventional typewriter keyboardcan be used for inputting purposes.This scheme has been implemented at theUniversity of Hong Kong using an IBM3031 under VM/CMS.
Without a properoutput device to display the Chinesecharacters, when the code of a Chinesecharacter is entered, the address ofthat character (where it can be found)in a dictionary 'XianDai HanYu CiDian'is displayed.
This is awkward but stillsuff icient to prove the correctness ofthe code recognit ion procedure.The Coding Scheme for InputtingIn this scheme, a code for a Chinesecharacter consists of two strings ofsymbols concatenated together.
Onestring of three symbols corresponds tothe ideographic radicals the characteris composed of.
The other of no more thanfour symbols is the spell ing of thecharacter.
Corresponding to each of theten thousand characters in the diction-ary 'XianDai HanYu CiDian', with theexception of twenty six pairs, thereexists a unique code in this scheme.
Inother words, this coding scheme is 99.5%unique.
Furthermore, among these pairsof characters sharing the same codes ina pair-wise manner, the non-uniquenessThe Spell ing of Chinese CharactersThere are two standard systems to spellChinese characters, one in terms of theLatin alphabets and the other in termsof Mandarin Pin Yin symbols.
By meansof the former; a maximum of fivealphabets are normally required to spella Chinese character.
However, since thealphabet 'G' (except when it is theleading alphabet) always appear with 'N'as 'NG', one can replace 'NG' with 'G'and reduce the maximum number of alpha-bets required from five to four.
Bymeans of the latter, no more than threesymbols are required to spell a Chinesecharacter.
This can be an importantsaving but in this paper, spellings arein terms of Latin alphabets just becausea conventional terminal keyboard doesnot have Mandarin Pin Yin keys.It is not always obvious whether oneshould read certain Chinese characterswith or without a curling tongue, i.e.,whether one should spell with 'C' or'CH' 'S' or 'SH' and 'Z' or 'ZH'.
This 8is particularly diff icult to those whosemother tongue is not Mandarin.
In orderto be more forgiving, this coding schemeallows one not to differentiate 'C' from'CH' 'S' from 'SH' and 'Z' from 'ZH' sothat, for example, 'SHAO' can be spelledas 'SAO'.
As a consequence, there Wil lbe three additional pairs of characterssharing the same codes in a pair-wisemanner as listed in Table 2.
Fortunate-ly, the non-uniqueness so engendered canbe easily el iminated by deleting onemember of each pair because of its rareoccurrence.
For the same reason, thiscoding scheme also allows one to confusea leading 'N' with a leading 'L' Forexample, 'LUAN' can be spelled as 'NUAN'and vice versa.
No non-uniqueness isintroduced as a result of this274Table i: Pairs of Chinese Characters  Shar ing the Same CodesSpe l l ingANBIBODIAODUNEEFUGUJ IAJ IANJ INGJUANLIANLINGMAOPANGQzSHAOSIXIAOYIYIYUYUNZHANGZHENZIZIRadica lCompos i t ion59TEMVKBKGXT2-VMK2FDKJYD6=PKL-yKYRHOP87I2 DKI8ELF?
?02K;27JPXX.X;.XChar.1I~t~fA@Char.2PTT%Suggested  Remedydelete char.
2wr i te  char.
2 asdelete char.
1delete char.
2delete char.
1delete char.
1delete char.
2spel l  char.
2 as FOdelete char.
1wr i te  char.
2 as ~delete char.
1wr i te  char.
1 as ~"\[delete char.
2delete char.
1delete char.
1Jus ti fi cat ionsame meaningit means a defectdelete char.
2wr i te  char.
1 aswr i te  char.
2 asdelete char.
2wr i te  char.
1 as ~Awr i te  char.
2 as ~delete char.
1delete char.
2spel l  char.
2 as OUdelete char.
2wr i te  char.
1 as ~delete char.
1delete char.
1delete char.
1same meaningrep laced by +uncommonuncommonun commonso isuncommonmeta l i c  shack leun commonhuman act iv i tyuncommonun commonun commonuncommonthat's or ig ina lthat's or ig ina lrep laced by ~'~that's o r ig ina lbeing ~celestialHn commonun commonSO is I~un commonmade of fabricun commonreplaced by @rep laced by y)~--275--.relaxation because the complete codeconsists of the radical string as wellas the spell ing string.
Over the tenthousand characters in 'XianDai HanYuCiDian', this coding scheme requires anaverage of 2.5 alphabets to spell aChinese character.The Radical Comppsit ion ofChinese CharactersOne tradit ional method of looking up aChinese character in a dictionary isfirst to identify a radical in thegraphic representation of the character.There are hundreds of different standardradicals used in a dictionary and thereare rigid rules to apply in order toidentify one.
The number of Chinesecharacters identif ied to a singleradical is numerous.
Even a combinationof the spell ing and the identifyingradical together is not suff icient toyield a unique code for a Chinesecharacter.An experiment was conducted in whicheach of the ten thousand charactersmentioned above was decomposed into astring of as many as eight radicals.
Inorder to do so, a total of four hundredand fifty six radicals were employed.These radicals were grouped into fiftysets according to their common graphicalproperties.
Each set is then associatedwith a key of a conventional keyboard.Table 3 lists all these radicals, theirgroupings and their associations withthe keys of a keyboard.
Human engineer-ing aspects were considered when theset-key association was determined.
Theradical string for a Chinese characterconsists of the keys corresponding tothe first three radicals composing thecharacter.
In case the character isdecomposed into less than threeradicals, blanks are used as fillers tomake up a string of three keys.
Forinstance, the character ~ is decom-posed into 91T and the radical stringfor ~ is I .
In this coding scheme,the grouping of radicals into sets is ofparamount importance.
On the one hand,they are grouped according to theircommon graphic properties into as fewsets as possible.
On the other hand,care is exercised to assure the unique-ness (or almost uniqueness) of the code-character correspondence.The Codin@ Scheme forInternal RepresentationFor data processing purposes, it isnecessary to arrange the Chinese charac-ters into a collating sequence which isa direct result of their internal repre-sentation in computer memory.
Hence,when one is designing the internalcodes, besides minimizing the length ofthe codes, one should also observe thatthe collating sequence that follows islogical and practical.
This paperattempts to derive the internal codeslogically from the input codes which, inturn, are logically related to the spel-lings and graphical properties of theChinese characters.
When a new charac-ter is created in the future with aunique input code, this scheme guaran-tees that the internal code will also beunique and a logical place in thecollating sequence for it is assured.The maximum number of keys used for aninput code is seven.
Storing sevensymbols, in general, requires sevenbytes.
We recall that three symbols outof the seven serve to indicate whichsets of radicals the Chinese characteris composed of.
Since there are fiftysets of radicals altogether, there area total of 125,000 possible combina-tions.
Seventeen bits wil l  be suffi-cient to represent these combinations.The remaining four alphabetic symbolsused to represent the spell ing have thefollowing properties:-  The first symbolcan be any alphabet from A to Z (exceptV).
Five bits would suffice to repre-sent it.
The second symbol can be ablank, A, E, H, I, M, N, O, R, U or V, atotal of eleven possibil it ies.
Fourbits would suffice.
The third symbolcan be a blank, A, E, G, I, N, O, or U,a total of eight possibil it ies.
Threebits would suffice.
The fourth symbolcan be a blank, A, G, I, N, O, or U, atotal of seven possibil it ies.
Threebits would suffice.Thus the spell ing can be packed intofifteen bits.
Combining with the seven-teen bits required for the radicals, acode in these scheme requires onlythirty two bits of memory space.As a consequence of this internal repre-sentation, the collating sequence wouldbe such that where a character shouldappear in the sequence first depends onthe spell ing of the character.
Theorder of two characters of the samespell ing depends on the keys used in theradical strings for the two characters.276Table 2: Conflicts Introduced by not Differentiating 'C' from 'CH', 'S' from 'SH'and 'Z' from 'ZH' as Leading Symbols in Spell ing Chinese CharactersRadical Char.
Char.
Suggested Remedy Justif ication Spell ing Composition 1 2CU/CHUS~/SHASI/SHI72Y7MG2} delete char.
1delete char.
2delete char.
1uncommonuncommonrep laced  by 4~Table 3: Grouping of RadicalsKey Radicals in SetsB ~ ~-~ - ~ ~c gG t Wl~t tt%~M0PR k > " ~ ~l< , l -U = /KeyVWX67!Radicals in Setst3 ~ o .~g_.
~ ..?.s r~t/tli~l,~?tf,4\]ii8--277Key!i !Radicals in Sets, ,The Next StepIn order to evaluate the effectivenessof this coding scheme, the author plansto experiment with different users andmeasure their coding eff iciencies as afunction of training and experience aswell as their reaction towards usingthis scheme.
The acceptance of theusers is the ultimate measure of successOf any invention.
The design of theset-key association in Table 3 is some-what arbitrary.
Since it has a subtleimpact on the collating sequence, moreresearch in this area is necessary.AcknowledgementThe author is indebted to ProfessorT.C.
Chen for his constructivesuggestions and criticisms.
The authoris also grateful to Mr. T.H.
Tse for hisassistance and discussions.278-
