SEMANTIC FOR TEXT PROCESSINGJean-Guy MeunierUniversit~ du Quebec ~ MontrealSummary:Computer text processing is defined formallyas a ordered set of sentences on which variousinterpretative functions operate to produce atransformed text.
Semantic is here understooda the set of these functions and their ordering.A common language is suggested both for thesentences and the functions.
A case study ispresented.i..Text interpretationIf a computer was to read and understand asentence such as "Women love bachelors" howwould we describe the semantic process goingon?
A first type of answer would bring usdirectly in the world denoted by such asentence: To this sentence corresponds aworld situation of which one can give a for-mal representation for instance in settheoretical terms: there exist a certainstate of affair, and a set of human beings,in which there is a subset of women anda subset of man in which the subset bacheloris itself contained and there exist a spe-cific relation between the individuals ofthe subset of women with the individuals ofthe subset of bachelors.
Hence interpretingthe first sentence is thus to know the stateof the world in which such a complex relationexist or for which this sentence is true.In an other vocabulary, one could askhis data base to see if in the worldrepresentation or the frames, the scenarios,the templates, the nets, etc.
there exist orcan be inferred such a relation betweenthese individuals?In a second line of interpretation, onecould stress the fact that it is impossibleto set the state of affair in a world, be-fore knowing what "love", "women", and "ba-chelor" means.
Depending on what is containedin these expressions, one can not decidewhat state of affair is to be chosen.
Dowomen love young postgraduates, students,seals without a mate, or simply youngunmarried males?Other types of interpretation wil l  addthat one cannot even decide which reading togive to the sentence if one cannot see whatusage of the sentence is made.
If the sentenceis used in the descriptive-affirmative manner,then the preceding interpretation can beaccepted, but if the sentence is use in amore rhetorical manner then the interpretationcould be insulting for the feminist user  andamusing for a male chauvenist~Hence interpreting a sentence is not a sim-ple thing to describe.
Yet, theories forcomputer processing of natural language willoften stresse only but one aspect of the thissemantic process.
For instance the recenttrend of artificial intelligence, be it theframes paradigm (Winograd 1972, Schank Wilk1973 or the more fregean-Montague (Schubert 1975,Cercone 1975, Lehmann 1978) insist on the ne-cessity of a world representation for the in-terpretation of a sentence or a set of sen-tences.
This is a computer variation of thetarskian semantic.
In an other traditionthat of the lexical semanticists (Katz, Fill-more Miller) or the semantic net theorists(Quillian, Simmons, Woods) it is maintainedthat a semantic grammar should mainly includea clear relation, not only between an expres-sion of a language and the objects to whichthey refer in a particular usage, but alsobetween the sense of the expression and theirreferences.Hence one can see different types of rela-tions can exist in this semantic world: thatis, relations between the expressions, thesenses, and the objects themselves.
As forthe use aspect or pragmatics of the problemgoes, except for a few odd explorations hereand there, one relagates the whole thi~.gfor future investigation.From the point of view of text processingdistinguishing the various aspects of thesemantic problems is of the highest importancefor many recent projects in this field havein one sense reverse the problem.
What oneencounters is in fact much more conversationin natural language with a formal data basethan real text interpretation.
That is, given asemi-formal world representation couched in aconceptual dependency or a frames representationone system will try to relate questions to per-tinent states of the world (Lehmann 1978, 1979)anoaher system will rewrite the text amplifyingit with a set of new sentences said to be pre-supposed in the understanding of the original--359(Schank, 1972).
Another wil l  try mainly todisambiguate the original text and produce aset of adequat inferences (Wilks, 1973).
Inall these systems, a basic postulat is acceptedand stressed: understanding can not be realisedif there does not exist a minimal frame of refe-rence on which the interpretation of the sen-tences of a text  can rely.
But real text pro-cessing at its limits although in part, hasto accept this postulat must also be seen asa process of reading a text that is in itselfa world representation given in natural lan-guage.
A text not only describes, but alsocreates a world, of object and events.
Inother words new and old frames, world repre-sentation, data base are in the text itself.But in saying that, one becomes confused in thevarious world representations that are atwork.To add to the confusion the inference, thedesambiguation, the paraphrasing process allrise up in the interpretation of the wordsand sentences meaning.
Each one giving theexplanation in a new vocabulary.It is the aim of the following research toexplore a more formal approach to the semanticproblem of computer text interpretation.
Themain hypothesis could be summerize in thefollowing manner.
Semantic interpretation oftext cannot lean on one unique type of readingbe it referential, lexical, syntaxical orpragmatical.
Semantic interpretation for textsis the establishement of a complex set of rela-tions between the various aspects of what phi-losophy, linguistic, logic artificial intel-ligence has called reference sense, use,lexicon etc.
It is also possible to offerfor all these aspects a common formal des-criptive language.2.
Semantic spaceIn order to render our explanation moreintelligible we shall proceed in two relatedsteps one non formal and the second formal.For the first step, we shall use a metaphor.Imagine a constellation of planets.
Some ofthese planets cannot be seen by the naked eye.Yet each planet (seen or unseen) depends forits mouvement on the existence or non exis-tence of the other (gravity wise).
What actuallyconstitutes the constellation space is not theplanets themselves but the gravity relationand movement holding them together.
Exploringthis metaphor we could underline various in-teresting properties of this space .
A firstdimension already stressed is the fact that aspace is essentially a set of relations betweenplanets.
Without these relations there is nospace.
Secondly the relation is multiple thatis, the path of one planet is the effect of mul-tiple gravity relations among the planets.Thirdly, the effect of the gravity forces on oneplanet affects each planet itself.
There isa resonance relation from one to the other.
In-formation on all the system can be found byanalysis of the gravitutional force of one pla-net.
To put in other terms, what affectsone planet's graw\[ty affects all others.
Forthlythere exist a certain relativity of the depen-dencies, that is: each constellation of planetshas its own pattern of dependencies which isdifferent form one constellation to another.Let us now translate our metaphor into oursemantic problem.
Imagine that a text is aconstellation of sentences, some of which arewritten down on paper (the material text) othersnot written down.
Each sentence has a set ofmaterial properties that is, they are sentencesof a language with their syntax and their se-mantics.
Some of these sentences describes thesyntactic structure of original sentences of awritten text others describe the sense of thesentences, others describe the state of affair,etc.
Our semantic space will be filled withdifferent sentences each of which will focuson one or other aspect of a specific sentenceto be interpreted.
That is each "world" inthis semantics space is actually a sentence ora group of sentences of a language each of whichhaving a different role in the overall semanticspace.
Hence we shall have a syntactic world,a lexical-sense world, a referential world, anatural world.
Or to put in a less metaphoriclanguage, each sentences of a language willhave a specific relation to its sense its refe-rence, its syntax etc.
each of which can beexpressed in sentence of a formal language.It follows from the metaphor that our se-mantic space is not the sentences themselvesbut the relations between the sentence andonly the sentences.
Secondly the relationis multiple.
Each sentence has many typesof relations with many other sentences.
Astructural representation sentence can berelated to a sense representation sentenceand a referential representation sentence etc.Thirdly, each sentence can be modified in itsown form by information comming from anothersentence.
For instance a sentence with varia-bles for ambiguous words could need many typeof decision before fill ing up the variables.Forthly the set of relations is relative toa user or a set of users.
Each sub-constella-tions of sentences can be dependent on a setof possible users.
There is a pragmatic rela-tion between these semantic spaces and the users.From this informal presentation we can seethat the semantic space for a text is morethan the constituant of the space itself(i.e.
the sentences).
In other words360a semantic grammar should be understood as setof relations c n various information sentencesof a language.
Therefore we shall define infor-mally this stage of the research a semanticgrammar as a set of decision rules (functions)mapping a structured list of symbolic expres-sions or sentences into another list of symbo-lic expressions or sentences of a language.For instance a grammar could operate on asentence such as "John has a dog" and deliveras output "John has ANIMAL" or "John POSSESSdog".
Here the grammar has strictly transformedone sentence into another according to a setof decision rules.
A semantic grammar is thus,a rule decision ~rocess  whose domain shall besets of informations (or sentence of a language)that has been defined in the scientific litera-ture as syntactic structure (vg being a Noun-Phrase), lexical compotents (vg: bachelor:an unmarried man etc.
), world representation(vg: to walk: Mouvement : tO put one'sfeet in the front one's body in x y z manner),conceptual dependency (vg to "give" impliesthe transferring of an object money, a receivereto), conceptual inference (vg: to sell immliesthat somebody buys etc.
)Because of the ambiguity of thewords  trans-formation and translation.
The first operatingnormally only on structures and the secondoperating between languages of various alpha-bets and rules, we have decided to talk of thefunctions that maps one sentence into anotheras a transmapping function.What is here emerging, is the fact that theinterpretation of a sentence of a languageis the assignment to it a whole set of rulestransmapping various sentences from it, thatis a sentence of a language can be transmappedinto one or many other sentences each of whichfocuses on different aspects of the originalsentence and more important where each trans-mapping is dependant for its existence on therole and function of the others.
In that viewof things, semantics would be seen not as arepresentation of the meaning of a sentencebut a space in which differents sentences (fromvarious or the same language) are related amongthemselves.
The semantics of a language wil lthus be related mnong the1:iselves.
The semanticsof a language wil l  thus be related interpreta-tions having the form of sentences of a langua-ge.
Our semantic representation hence becomesa semantic space.3.
Formal definition of text semantics:From a set theroretical point of view, atext is nothing more than a set of ordered in--formation units (words) (sentences) that isa text could be defined as a doubletTEXT: ~ W,Rwhere W is a set of sentences with an orderin?relation R. Any analysis can then be thoughtas a transmapping function TF whose domain isa text or part of a text (a sentence) T~ and arange T..
Hence a textual analysis function isdefinedJasTF .
(T i) = T .
\]From a logical point of view, a text is henceconsidered as a language, that is a set ofprimitives with an ordering relation R. And anytextual analysis can be thought of as a typeof translation process here called transmapping(for one can stay in the same language) that goesfrom a language to another language or a sen-tence in L. to a sentence in L. (where i can be=J)1 \]Each transmapping is realized by a set ofrules that are sensitive to various contextual~eatures.
Each transm~p itself becomes theentry for new rules of transmapping alsosensitive to various contextual conditions.From a formal point of view, each sentenceoriginal or transmapped can hence be understoodas the domain of an interpretation functionwhose range is another set of transmap sentenceand so recursively.
Semantic is the orderedset of these interpretation functions.Hence if T is a set of transmappingfunctions (TF ..... TF ) then a Semantic Inter-pretation SI?define~ asSI: ~T.Rr~where T is a set of functions and R an orderingrelation on these functions.As each transmap is logically considereda sentence of a language, it is possible tobuild for each one a specific grammar andvocabulary.
But such a way to go aboutbecome highly cumbersome and lacks elegance.And in a processing perspective, a set ofdifferent formal grammar and vocabulary isnot very economical.
On theoretical groundsit would not also faithful to the highlyrecursive but conherent process of languagefunctionning.
Hence we shall try to giveto all transmapped sentence a common set ofprimitives and rules such that there existebetween each transmap a certain communality.Formally, each transmap will belong to adifferent sub set a common language and willhave a set of common rules and lexems.
Dif-ferentiation wil l  com~ by the variation inthis common stock.This common language should apply also tothe formulation of the transmapping functionsthemselves.
In a sense, these functions areprocedurial, declarative sentences, havingspecific types of predicats and variables.- 361Hence they should be formalized in a langagesuch that sometimes they will be taken attheir face value.
(i.e.
as declarative) someti-mes at their reported ("de dicto") value.Hence the transmapping function sentences canbe taken as part of the text~meeting in thisway the fundamental aspect of natural languagerecursion.
In other words each transmappedsentence and transmapping function will be asentence of a common language called TML (trans-mapping language).
This language because ofits high flexibility will includes an alphabet,a lexicon and rules of formation that allowthe description of the various type of predi-cats, variables and constants that one encoun-ters either in natural language or in the va-rious semi-formal representations (semanticnets -- templates -- conceptual dependency theoryetc).
It will be in fact an intensionnal lan-guage (Montague 1974, Vanderveken 1980) so thatfirst and second order predicat can be used asmuch as a formal relation between sense andreference.As time and place does not permit do expli-citate here this language we shall contentourselves with illustration of the semanticprocess and language.4.
Case studyLet us take the sentence given as exampleat the beginning of this paper.
"Women lovebachelors".
This simple sentence can explodeinto a multitude of transmapped sentencesS 1 to S nSO: Women love bachelorsThis is the rewriting of the original one.Sl: (S(FNN(N(Women)) (Love)(N(Bachelors)))The structured sentence S Ocategorial grammar.in terms of a$2.
0 (All x All y ((Women x & Bachelor y)(x Love y)) ORS2.
I (All x Ey ((Women x & Bachelor y)(x Love y)) OR$2.
2 (Ex Ey ((Women x & Bachelor y)(x love y)))The quantified transmap of S 1 with the am-biguous structures.nb.
The number are only illustrative andnot part of the transmap.S 3 ((All women love all bachelors) OR(all women love some bachelors) OR(some women love some bachelor))(some women love some bachelor))The transmap of S 2 in natural languageexpressionS 4 ((Women love an (unmarried man) ORan (seal without a mate) ORan (young knight))Transmap of S_ & S. with non formalizeddesambiguatio~ of bachelor.S 5 (Women (x ESSE POSIT (@L) y) & (y ESSE POSIT(~L) x)some bachelors)Transmap of SN, S 1 with meaning represen-tation of LOVES 6 ((Louise is a woman) &(Kate is a woman) &(Jane is a woman) &(John is a bachelor) &(John is a man) &(Peter is a man) &(Peter is an unmarried man) &(Andrew is a bachelor) &(Andrew is a man) &(Louise loves Andrew) &(Jane loves Peter) &(Kate loves John))This sentence describes the set of proper-ties of all individuals of this smallworld.As one can see the simple sentence of theoriginal text has explodes in a multitude ofnew sentences.
One should notice that theS 1 transmap is a purely syntactical repre-sentation; S 2 to S t are various transmappingfor the desa~bigua~ion of the various lexicaland sentential structures that sentence canhave; S.~ is not directly a transmap of theorigina~ sentence but a description of thestate of affair to which sentence S O to S 5must relate in order to chose the rlghtinterpretation.A better but longer description of thevarious interpretation would have included alsothe various inferences and presuppositionsillocutionary forces and transmappingfunction that such a sentence carries.
Aconceptual dependency model or a semanticnet representation would probably be morepedagogicly adequat but still would belogically considered another complex sentenceas Schubert (1975) have shown.
Also a morehomogeneous language than the one here chosenwould shorten up the huge proliferation of-362  ....repitition.
This is one aim the TLM languagepresents (not illustrated here).As one can  see, the "semantics" of the ori-ginal sentence is not a simple and uniquerepresentation either of its formal lexicalor referential structure.
All three hereare working in the interpretation on the ori-ginal sentence.
Hence for us "semantics"will not be only the representation of themeaning of a sentence in one or the omtherlanguage of formal, lexieal or referentialstructure but the set of relations establishedin among them.
To interpret a sentence ishere understood as a decision process thatestablishes specific relations between sen-tences.
It is these semantic relationsthat the research tries to explore in a sys-tematic way.BibliographicCercone, N.J. (1975).
Representing NaturalLanguage in Extended Semantic Network.Techn.
Report.
TR75.11.
Depart.
of Comp.Science University of Alberta, Edmonton,CanadaFillmore, C.J., (1968).
The Cure, for Casein Universal in Linguistic Theory, E. Bach,R.T.
Harms (eds) Holt.
Rinehart and Wins-ton Inc.Katz, J.J., (1972).
Semantic Theory, N.Y.Harper & Row.Lehmann, H., (1978).
The USL projects its ob-jectives and status.
Proceedings ofthe international Technical Conference,IBM center, Bari, Italy.Montague, R., (1974).
Formal Philosophy,Yale University Press, New Haven.Quillian, M.R., (1968).
Semantic Memory,in Semantic Information processing,M.
Minsky (ed.)
M.I.T.
Press, Cam-bridge, Masso.
p. 227-270.Schank, R.C., (1968).
Conceptual dependency:A theory of natural language understanding.Cognitive Psychology, 3, 552-631.Simmons, R., (1973).
Semantic Network: Theircomputation and use use for understandingEnglish Sentences.
In Computer Models ofTought and Language: R. Schank, and K.Colby (eds) Freeman, San Francisco,California, pp.
66-113.Vanderveken~ D., (1980).
Some Philosophicalremarks on the theory of types in inten-sional logic.
Forth comming.Wilks, Y.
(1973) Grammar, meaning and machi-' " r  .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.ne anal~sis of natural language.
Boston,Routledge and Kegan Paul, 1971.Winograd, T., (1972).
Understandin$ NaturalLanguage.
New York, Academic Press.Woods, W.A., (1975).
What's in a link:Foundations for semantic Networks inRepresentation and understandingD.
Bobrow, and A. Collins.
(eds).Academic Press, N. York, pp.
35-82.- -363- -
