HOW TO DEAL WITH AMBIGUITIES WHILE PARSING: EXAM ---A SEMANTIC PROCESSING SYSTEM FOR JAPANESE LANGUAGEHidetosi SiraiDept.
of Mathematical Engineering and Instrumentation PhysicsFaculty of Engineering, University of Tokyo7-3-1, Hongo, Bunkyo-kuTokyo 113, JapanIt is difficult for a natural language understanding system (NLUS) to dealwith ambiguities.
There is a dilemma: an NLUS must be able to produce plausibleinterpretations for given sentences, avoiding the combinatorial explosion ofpossible interpretations.
Furthermore, it is desirable for an NLUS to produceseveral interpretations if they are equally plausible.
EXAM, the system describedin this paper, is an experimental text understanding system designed to deal withambiguities effectively and efficiently.I.INTRODUCTIONWhat is ambiguity?
The term 'ambiguity'usually refers to the property that certain sen-tences may be interpreted in more than one wayand that insufficient clues are available forthe intended or optimal interpretation.5The decision as to whether or not there areambiguities in a given sentence is difficult;some systems with little knowledge may overlookthe possibility of alternative interpretations insome sentences, and other systems may be puzzledas to which interpretation to choose even whenthere is only one plausible interpretation forhuman beings.In general, the more knowledge a system has,the greater are its possibilities of interpreta-tion.
One solution is to generate all possibleinterpretations and ask the user to choose oneof them.
But this is obviously absurd.
Anothersolution is as follows: in the parsing process,the system chooses one interpretation and if thatone fails, looks for another, and in the semanticprocess it produces all plausible interpretationson the basis of certain criteria I0.A different approach is adopted in EXAM.The reasons for this are as follows:i) In the processing of the Japanese language,it is undesirable to separate the parsing andthe semantic process, since noun phrases, espe-cially the subject are often omitted.
Thus, wecannot parse Japanese sentences efficiently with-out using semantic information.2) It is undesirable to ask the user to choosefrom among several interpretations whenever ambi-guities occur in text understanding systems.3) We may overlook the possibility of otherinterpretations if we adopt the strategy ofmaking semantic interpretations after parsing,since such a strategy might exclude what turnsout to be the proper interpretation when makinga choice among several grammatically ambiguousalternatives.
It would be awkward if there isanother interpretation and we realize that it isthe appropriate one only after having processedseveral sentences.EXAM is an experimental text understandingsystem designed to deal with ambiguities effec-tively and efficiently.
EXAM consists of threecomponents: hierarchical knowledge sources, asemantic interpreter and a fundamentally breadth-first augmented context-free parser.
The secondversion of EXAM is under development on theHLISP system using the HITAC 8700/8800 at theUniversity of Tokyo.2.
CLASSIFICATION OF AMBIGUITIESIn this chapter, the ambiguities with whichwe are concerned are classified into threetypes: levels of word meaning, levels of grammarand levels of discourse.
Examples are given foreach of these types.
We point out that these areamong the ambiguities that an NLUS must deal with.2.1 Levels of word meanin$There are many words in the Japanese lan-guage which are phonologically similar but cor-respond to different lexical entries in a dic-tionary.
For example, sisei corresponds to 17entries in a standard Japanese dictionary 8.This is known as homonymy and should be distin-guished from polysemy.368The referents of pronouns are often ambi-guous.
We call this ambiguity referential ambi-guity.
In Japanese, nouns are often used coref-erentially, and so there may arise the problem ofwhether some noun is being used in the genericor in the specific sense.
We also call thisreferential ambiguity.2.2 Levels of srammarConsider the following sentence.
(i) Taroo wa Z~roo ni wazato nagura~se-ta.
'Taroo made Ziroo beat him purposely.
'This sentence is ambiguous, because there aretwo possible interpretations, namely, Taroo gawazato nagura-se-ta 'Taroo purposely made...'and Z~roo ga wazato nagut-ta 'Ziroo purposelybeat.'
This is called grammatical ambiguity,that is, (i) has two different parsing trees (or superficial syntactic structures), as follows:(l-a) \[Taroo ga Ziroo ni \[(Ziroo ga)(Taroo o)wazato nagura\] s se-ta\]s(l-b) \[Taroo ga Ziroo ni wazato \[(Ziroo ga)(Taroo o) nagura\] s se-ta\]sThe ambiguity of coordinated noun phrasessuch as wakai otoko to onna 'young men and women'is also included in the grammatical ambiguitycategory.The interpretation of the scope of negativessuch as (2) also constitutes a problem.
(2) Taroo wa Ziroo no youni rikoude nai.This sentence is ambiguous, having the followingthree readings:(2-a) Taroo, like Ziroo, is not clever.
(2-b) Taroo is not as clever as Ziroo.
(2-c) Ziroo is clever, but Taroo is not.In Japanese, these three readings have the samesuperficial syntactic structure, but allow threedifferent semantic analyses, according to therule of interpretation used.
We call thisinterpretative ambiguity.2.3 Levels of discourseThe role of a sentence in discourse is oftenambiguous.
Consider the following sentence.
(3) Onaka ga sui-ta.
'I ~m hungry.
'This is merely an assertion, with no specialimplied meaning when used without any particularcontext.
But if we have a certain context, forexample, if Taroo and Ziroo were walking alongthe street at noon, and Ziroo uttered sentence(3) in front of a restaurant, then (3) mighthave a different meaning, that is, "let's havelunch."
(In this case, one says that (3) hasillocutionary force.)
Consider another example:(4) Taroo wa miti de koron-da.
Banana no kawaga soko n~ at-ta.
'Taroo slipped and fell on the street.
Therewas a banana skin there.
'St is difficult to interpret the second sentencewith assurance.
We can interpret it as statingthe cause of the event described by the firstsentence, and also as stating a result of thisevent, that is, Taroo found the banana skin as aresult of falling down in the street.
We callthis cohesion ambiguity.2.4 Sense and meaningIn this paper, we distinguish 'sense' from'meaning.'
"Meaning" refers to the interpreta-tion of linguistic expression, taking the contextinto account.
"Sense" means, on the contrary,the interpretation of the expression in the ab-sence of context.
In other words, "sense" isliteral meaning.
In this account a variety ofambiguities, such as homonymy and grammaticalambiguity, are regarded as ambiguities in sense.Other ambiguities, such as referential ambiguityand cohesion ambiguity are those in meaning.In EXAM, we adopt the strategy of firstdetermining the sense of linguistic expression,and then the meaning.
Therefore, the transfor-mation of sense representation into meaning rep-resentation i~ carried out after disambiguatingthe "sense" ambiguity.3.
HOW TO DEAL WITH AMBIGUITIES IN PARSINGEXAM incorporates three sources of knowl-edge: frame memory, text memory and working mem-ory.
The frame memory holds prototype frames,script frames and other useful information suchas metaknowledge.
The text memory holds threecomponents: the context, which is the so-calledframe system connecting the frames produced bythe semantic interpreter; the frame representingthe sense of the last sentence (which constitutesthe data for ellipsis), and the speaker's currentview point.
The working memory stores variousinterpretations of the sentence being processedduring parsing.In parsing process, EXAM translates linguis-tic expression into frames Which represent theirstructure, such as word order.
The transforma-tion of sense representation into meaning repre-sentation is not necessarily carried out duringthe parsing process but may be done if required.Constructing the sense representation from theexpression depends upon the knowledge containedin the frame memory.
EXAM also takes the knowl-edge contained in the text memory into consider-ation when transforming sense representationsinto meaning representations and selecting theplausible interpretations.The parsing process in EXAM is carried outby a parser called MELING and the knowledge repre-sentation language.
In this chapter, we shalldescribe these and explain how EXAM deals withambiguities.3.1 MELING --- a parserMELING stands for Modified Extended LINGol,which is slightly different from Extended LINGOL~It is basically an augmented context-free parserusing a bottom-up and top-down parsing algorithm369and parses input sentences by using the dictio-nary and the grammatical rules provided by theuser.The descriptive format of the dictionary is,\[<morpheme> <syntactic-category>(<message-list> <interpretation>) <gen>\].The <message-list> is regarded as attached tothe syntactic category of the morpheme, and isused to control the parsing.
<Interpretation>,when evaluated, returns the frames or other datarelating to the appropriate function of the mor-pheme in the semantic processing.The format of the grammatical rules is\[<left> <right> (<advice> <cog>) <gen>\].The <left>-<right> pair represents a context-freerule of the formA -?
B or A -?
B C,where A, B and C are non-terminal symbols.
Forexample,\[S (NP VP) ((%S:NP+VP (FML)(FMR))(#MM '@NP+VP=S (@LC)(@RC)) nil\]indicates that the phrase name is S and that itssyntactic constituents are NP and VP.In general, it is possible that severalparsing trees may be produced for one sentence,therefore, the parsing process must be con-trolled by using syntactic and semantic informa-tion.
The <advice> and the <cog> are providedfor this purpose.The <advice> is an arbitrary LISP functionwhich serves to control the parsing process byusing syntactic information.
It is evaluated ifthe parser creates a new requirement for a pars-ing tree in a top-d0wn manner by using the gram-matical rule under consideration, or if the ruleis applied to produce a new parsing tree in abottom-up manner; the parsing process dependsupon the result.
The <advice> program should beone which returns the result deterministicalSyin the local syntactic context.
For example, aprogram dealing with the inflection of verbs isprovided to serve as <advice> for the rewritingrule which decomposes a verb into its root andits suffix.The <cog> is a LISP S-expression (or pro-gram) for producing interpretations and con-trolling the parsing process in terms of theseinterpretations.
Usually, semantic processingcosts more than syntactic processing, hence theparser does not evaluate the <cog> very frequent-ly.
The <cog> would be evaluated in the follow-ing cases:i) if several partial parsed trees with the sameroot node and the same terminal symbols (Fig.
i;we call these ambiguous PPTs) were found to makesense given the syntactic context, or2) if some phrases are produced which are con-sidered as components for semantic interpretation(e.g.
sentence, thematic phrase, adverbial clause,etc.
)nounad j  .
.
.
.
.
.
nounl !!
det - - -noun!
noun .
.
.
.
p !!
!
!
fkuro i  kcmTi no syouzyonounIdet  .
.
.
.
nounnoun .
.
.
.
.
p \]ad j - - -noun  !
i!
!
!
!kuro i  kcmzi no syo~zyo'a girl with dark hair'Fig.
i An example of ambiguous PPTs.The result of such an evaluation is a listof pairs each consisting of an interpretationand a number which indicates to the parser thedegree of our satisfaction with the interpreta-tion (or "likelihood").As we have seen, syntactic and semanticprocessing are distinctly separated, and thesemantic processing is dependent upon the parsingtree.
Furthermore, if there are grammatical am-biguities, that is, ambiguous PPTs, the semanticprocesser is used to retain only plausible inter-pretations, and then MELING continues the parsingprocess accordingly.
We pointed out that al-though there may be several semantic interpreta-tions, the number of parsing trees is just one.That is, the interpretations produced all belongto the same syntactic category.
Thus, MELINGeliminates the ambiguous PPTs.3.2 GIRL --- a knowledge representation languaseGIRL has frame-like knowledge packets as abasic data type, and these packets are mutuallyconnected by certain links.
Following KRL 1 ter-minology, the packets are called units, and thelinks are called slots.
The format of a unit is:\[unit-name categoryself-slotslotl slot2 ... slotn\].In EXAM, interpretation may be regarded astransforming protytype frames into frames repre-senting the meaning of the phrases or sentencesby instantiating them.
The prototype frame (called PROTO-unit) is indicated by the category"PROTO" in the frame memory.
GIRL provides ahierarchy with several modes of property inher-itance for PROTO-units, and uses this hierarchyto instantiate them in the semantic interpreta-tion.
The units have several slots, and most ofthem have the following format:(role facet filler comment) or(role check-to-fill when-fil led comment).The former is called a semantic slot andthe latter is called a prototype slot.
Therole/fil ler pair in the semantic slot correspondsto the traditional attribute/value pair.
Thefacet specifies the characteristic of filler; itis usually "=" (value).
The comment is used forvarious purposes: default value, expectation,attached procedures to be evaluated later, etc.are specified.EXAM instantiates PROTO-units by transform-- 370ing their prototype slots into semantic slots.In addition to this, several slots are added andremoved.
In instantiating units, the check-to-fill is evaluated when a candidate for the fillerof the slot is provided, and returns either NILor a number as the result.
If the result is NIL,then the candidate is abandoned.
Otherwise, theresult, that is, a number, indicates the candi-date's fitness and then the transformation fromprototype slot into semantic slot is carried out.After this is comleted, the when-filled is eval-uated.
The when-filled may consist of any kindof programs.GIRL has another type of slot which speci-fies the definitions of the units and the globalrequirements applicable to the unit as a whole.However, we shall not describe it here.3.3 Ambiguities and interpretationAs we have seen, the semantic processing isdependent upon the parsing tree.
In more con-crete terms, the interpretations, that is, frames,of a certain phrase consist of the interpreta-tions of its syntactic constituents.
In casethe form of a grammatical rule is A + B C, theframes of the constituents B and C form the ar-guments for the <cog> of the grammatical rule,and then the semantic interpreter produces theinterpretations of the phrase A.
In this manner,the semantic processing is carried out in abottom-up and left-to-right fashion.Here we have a problem: since MELING is abasically breadth-first parser, the number ofinterpretations which are senseless to humanbeings becomes very large as the length of thesentences increases, and the parser operatesinefficiently.
(In fact, the time required forthe older version of MELING to process a sentenceof length n is generally proportional to n 2 andsometimes n~.
)However, EXAM does not produce all combina-tions of possible interpretations.
The semanticinterpreter is evoked in two cases (see 3.1): inthe first case, it determines the sense represen-tation and eliminates some interpretations; inthe second case, EXAM attempts to produce themeaning representation and also produces certain"anticipations".In the first semantic interpretation, thetraditional and most powerful tool is so-calledsemantic marker.
EXAM implements this tool usingthe generalization hierarchy.
For some "cases",such as locative and time, the semantic markerfunctions as the selection restrictions.
However,for other "cases" it does not, and in such cases,it is regarded as an indicator of the "likeli-hood" of various interpretations.
Furthermore,the Japanese language has many homonyms whichhave the same categories, especially nouns.
Wegroup such homonyms into several special frameswhose category is "GROUP" in accordance withtheir semantic category.
If there is sufficientinformation to determine the sense of the seman-tic interpretation, the "GROUP" frames are re-placed by the frames corresponding to the appro-priate sense.The "case ordering" is also an indicator of"likelihood".
Inoue 4 points out that in Japanese,there is a certain ordering of cases in themati-zation and relativization, such as:subject>object>dative>locativeegoal>source...We have adopted this notion and have applied itto the disambiguation of certain grammaticalambiguities.
For example, consider the followingphrase:Taroo no kenkyuuIn the absence of any particular context, thesystem is more likely to interpret this phraseas  Taroo ga suru/sita kenkyuu ' the  researchcarried out by Taroo' than Taroo ni tuite nokenkyuu 'research concerning Taroo'.These'devices are very effective in dealingwith homonymy, polysemy and grammatical ambi-guity.
EXAM chooses the most plausible interpe-tations depending upon their "likelihoods".
Ifthere are several interpretations whose "likeli-hoods" are equally great, then EXAM retains allof them.
That is, "likelihood" is used to indi-cate the order of preference of interpretations.In the semantic interpretation, if the"PROTO" frames are instantiated with some slotfiller, then the category "PROTO" is replacedby the category "INSTANT".
The distinctionbetween these categories, that is, "PROTO" and"INSTANT", is important.
For example, akai irono kuruma 'a red car' and sonna iro no kuruma'a car with such a color' are well-formed expres-sions, but iro no ku~ma 'a car with color' israther ill-formed.
We explain this phenomenonas follows: the frame with the "INSTANT" categoryis, as it were, a specified frame, and is there-fore preferred to "PROTO" frames in the modifi-cation of other frames.
This distinction is alsoused as an indicator of "likelihood".\[We must note that the frames with catego-ries such as "PROTO", "INSTANT" and "GROUP" aremerely temporary in the working memory, and thesecategories are replaced by appropriate ones suchas "CLASS" (which means generic), "INDIVIDUAL"(which means specific object) or "SOME" (whichmeans indefinite object) in the meaning inter-pretation process.\]In the second semantic interpretation,dealing with referential ambiguity constitutesthe most important phase of the process.
Usuall~candidates for the referent are not uniquelydetermined in the local context where the ambi-guity occurs.
Therefore, EXAM delays the dis-ambiguation until after the entire sentence hasbeen processed.
EXAM collects the requirementsof the referent from the interpretation of thecomlete sentence.
In particular, some Predicatessuch as hosii 'want' produce opaque contexts,and in such cases the category determination IIshould be carried out after processing the entiresentence.- -371  ....Anotherpretation isparsed treesing sentence(5) Taroo notask involved in the second inter-the elimination of unnecessary.
For example, consider the follow-inu wa korii da.
'Taroo's dog is a collie.
'When MELING has processed the sentence (5) upthrough the word wa, it produces the followingpartial parsed trees:S nOUFItheme \ \det  themeTaroo no inu wa Taroo no inu waIn this case, only the first is plausible, andthe second is unnecessary.
(In fact, the secondpartial parsed tree is plausible only when thesentence is of a form such as: Taroo no, inu wa...) Therefore, EXAM eliminates unnecessaryparsing trees in accordance with the result ofthe semantic interpretation, that is, "likeli-hood".
This method makes the parsing processmore efficient, but involves some risk of mis-interpretation.
Hence, the elimination of pars-ing trees is carried out on the basis of certainlinguistic evidence 7, and the number of theparsed trees which are retained may sometimes begreater than one.The other task is to produce "anticipations"in the second semantic interpretation.
Considerthe following sentence:(6) Taroo wa terebi o mi-nagara benkyousi-ta.
'Taroo studied while watching television.
'When EXAM observes nagara, it anticipates thatthe agent of mi(ru) 'watch' will be coreferentialwith the agent of the verb of the matrix sen-tence, that is, in this example, benkyousi'study'.
In this manner, "anticipations" alsoserve to produce plausible interpretations andeliminate some ambiguities.As for ambiguities in meaning, EX~ doesnot deal with these in an entirely conclusivemanner.
However, we should note that "cohesionrelations ''3 play an important role in disambi-guation.
Dealing with ambiguities in meaningrequires comprehension of the structure of thetext and the determination of the topic.
Thestructure of the text is determined by the cohe-sion relations.
First, EXAM attempts to recog-nize how sentences are related.
In particular,conjunctions and sentences which are provided tosupport the reader's comprehension are employedin the recognition of these relations.
If EXAMsucceeds in recognizing these relations, thenthe inference mechanism attempts to explain whythese sentences are related.
In this manner,EXAM deals with ellipsis and properly disambi-guates some sentences.
For example,(7) Kaeru wa hiatari no yoi mizu no naka nit~nago o umi-masu.
Atatakai tokoro no hou gayoku sodatu kara desu.
'Frogs lay their eggs in water which is wellexposed to sunshine.
Because they grow wellin warm places.
'The second sentence is related to the first bythe "explanation relation" and this is indicatedby kara 'because'.
Then EXAM attempts to clarifythe question of why the second sentence consti-tutes an explanation of the first.
In this case,mizu no naka 'in water' and tokoro 'place' corre-spond to one another, and EXAM discovers theomitted element (kaeru ga un-da) tamago 'eggs(which are layed by frogs)'4.
DEALING WITH AMBIGUITIES AFTER PARSINGSo far, we have discussed the question ofdealing with ambiguities while parsing.
However,ambiguities may still remain!
Furthermore, insome sentences, such as the headings of newsarticles, we often find ambiguities which wecannot eliminate for lack of a preceding context.How can we deal with such situations?
In thissection, we describe some strategies which arestill under development now.In such cases, we must delay the disambi-guation and provide some mechanism for selectingthe appropriate interpretation when sufficientinformation has been supplied.
One solution isto introduce a kind of Truth Maintenance System2.For example, consider the following sentence:(8) Every man loves a woman.As is well known, sentence (8) has two interpre-tations.
These interpretations are stated inthe first order predicate calculus as follows:(8-a) Vx\[man(x) + my\[woman(y) A love(x,y)\]\](8-b) 3y\[woman(y) ^ Yx\[man(x) ?
love(x,y)\]\]This sentence should not be regarded as meaning-less, even if we have no context and hence cannot disambiguate it.
Since we can deduce (8-a)from (8-b), we surely have at least the informa-tion described in (8-a).
Hence, we enter (8-a)into the text memory as a "premise" and (8-b) asa "hypothesis".
If some information contradict-ing (8-b) exists, the Truth Maintenance Systemwill delete (8-b) from the text memory.Here, we adopt the following standpoint: ifthe disambiguation is essential for the under-standing of the text, the text (or the writer)will certainly provide clues adequate to dis-ambiguate the sentence, and if this is not thecase, the system may adopt any interpretationconsistent with the context.In fact, sentences which follow ambiguousones are often paraphrases of or explanationsfor them.
For example,(9) John says that everyone loves a woman.
Whomdoes John think everyone loves?The first sentence of (9) is ambiguous, but wecan disambiguate it by means of the second.Thus, we had better delay the interpretation ofambiguous sentences after having processed372several subsequent sentences.5.
CONCLUSIONWe have discussed the procedures by whichEXAM deals with ambiguities.
This constitutesa difficult task for an NLUS and the trivialmethod of asking the user to choose one of sever-al possible interpretations has been adopted.In dealing with ambiguities, EXAM avoids thecombinatorial explosion of possible interpreta-tions by means of several devices.
We classifyambiguities into two categories, that is, ambi-guity in sense and ambiguity in meaning.
EXAMadopts the strategy of first processing senserepresentations, and secondly meaning represen-tations; the parsing process is carried out inan essentially breadth-first manner.However, EXAM does not completely clarifyambiguities in meaning, especially ambiguitieswhich are not resolved by the preceding context.This constitutes a problem which still awaitssolution.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTThe author wishes to express his sinceregratitude to Professor Masao Iri, Dr. HozumiTanaka, Dr. Elmer J. Brody and Hidetosi Yokoofor encouragement, cooperation, and varioususeful comments and suggestions.REFERENCES\[i\] Bobrow, D. G. and Winograd, T., "An Overviewof KRL, a Knowledge Representation Language",Cognitive Science, Vol.
i, No.
i, 1977,pp.3-45.\[2\] Doyle, J., "A Glimpse of Truth Maintenace",Proc.
of the 6th International Joint Confer-ence of Artificial Intelligence, 1979,pp.232-237\[3\] Hobbs, J. R., "Coherence and Coreference",SRI Tech.
Note 168, 1978.\[4\] Inoue, K., Nihongo no Bunpou Kisoku 'TheRules of Japanese Syntax', Taishukan, 1978.\[5\] Kooij, J. G., Ambiguity in Natural Language,North-Holland, 1971.\[6\] Lyons, J., Semantics, Cambridge Univ.
Press,1977.\[7\] Minami, F., Gendai Nihon~o no Kouzou 'Struc-tures of Modern Japanese Language', Taishukan,1974.\[8\] Nishio, M., Iwabuchi, E. and Mizutani, S.,Iwanami Kokugo Jiten dai 2 han 'lwanami'sJapanese Dictionary 2nd ed.
', lwanami, 1971.\[9\] Tanaka, H., Sato, T. and Motoyoshi, F.,"Predictive Control Parser: Extended Lingol",Proc.
of 6th International Joint Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence, 1979, pp~868-870.\[i0\] Winograd, T., Understanding Natural Language,Academic Press, 1972.\[ii\] Yokoo, H. and Sirai, H., "Bunmyaku SyououRikai o Hukumu Nihongo Syori Sisutemu 'ASystem for Understanding Anaphora in Dis-course'", Proc.
of 21th Conference of Infor-mation Processing Society of Japan, 1980,pp.1006-1007.- -373-
