ATNS USED AS A PROCEDURAL DIALOG MODELD.
Metzing, Un ivers i ty  of Bie lefeld,GermanySummaryAn at tempt has been made to use an Aug-mented Trans i t ion Network  IO as a 'proce-dural  d ia log model' .
The development  ofsuch a model  appears to be important  inseveral  respects:- as a device to represent  and to used i f ferent  d ia log schemata proposed inempir ica l  conversat ion  analysis;- as a device to represent  and to usemodels of verbal  interact ion;- as a device combin ing  knowledge aboutd ia log schemata and about verbal  inter-act ion wi th  knowledge about task-or iented and goa l -d i rec ted  dialogs.A standard ATN should be further  de-ve loped in order to account  for theverbal  interact ions of task -or ienteddialogs.Int roduct ion4 Natura l ly  occur ing task -or iented  dia logsare the joint product  of the inter-act ions of (at least) two par t ic ipantswho know how to cooperate ,  i. e. whoknow how to organize- their  socia l  in teract ions- their  verbal  interact ions,  and- their  task -or iented  interact ions.The amount  of such in teract ions  whichseem to be necessary  in spec i f ic  task-or iented d ia logs may(i) depend on a number  of factorsgiven in advance such as: readi-ness to cooperate (a), prec isenessof the task representat ion  (b),amount  of mutua l ly  shared task-speci f ic  knowledge (c), amount ofknowledge about the other part i -c ipant  (d) and personal  factors asfor example competence and (self-)conf idence (e);(ii) depend on procedures apt to modi-fy these factors (a - e) in ane f f i c ient  and pos i t ive  way;(iii) depend on procedures used fortask resolut ion and result  ex-planat ion.Par t ic ipants  of natura l ly  occur ing task-or iented dia logs are able to make useof these factors and procedures  in ask i l l fu l  and f lexible way, but suchpropert ies  are st i l l  lacking even inexper imenta l  d ia log systems.In past natura l  language process ingresearch cons iderab le  ef forts  have beenmade to process the structures under-ly ing sentences or texts.
Procedureshave been developed which bui ld  updeep structures of sentences or whichdetermine macro -s t ructures  or eventskr ipts ('frames') under ly ing  texts.
Inthe next two years specia l  ef forts  wi l lbe made to process the structures under-ly ing task -or iented  dialogs.Representat ion  of In teract iona lKnowledgeIn coversat ion analysis,  systemat icaccounts of the sequent ia l  organizat ionof d ia log interact ions have been de-veloped, e. g. for turn taking, foropening sequences,  for c los ing or re-pair  sequences 7 or for d i f ferent  typesof task -or iented  verbal  interact ionas a whole  (e. g. g iv ing advice, d irec-tions, explanat ions)  12 But theseaccounts have only Deen of a s t ruc tura ltype, not of a procedura l  type.
A for-mal representat ion  has rarely beenattempted 6 and an integrat ion or inter-act ion of d i f ferent  knowledge sourcesis genera l ly  not considered.--487--In the subsequent  sect ions we wi l l  arguefor a level  of representat ion  gu id ingthe soc ia l  in teract iona l  and the verbalin teract iona l  aspects  of task -or ientedd ia logs .
A personal  be l ie f  or knowledgecomponent  wi l l  use in format ion  of thisi n te ract iona l  level together  wi th infor-mat ion of a task level as wel l  as infor-mat ion of a sentence/ text  level.
We wi l largue for a procedura l  representat ion  ofin teract iona l  knowledge and we thinkthat the usefu lness  of ATNS I0'3 for sucha representat ion  should be examined inmore detail .
'Parsing Interact ions 'The approach presented here di f fers  fromother  computat iona l  d ia log models  in thefo l lowing way:- A d ia log model  is not based on an un-2 der ly ing  d ia log prototype spec i fy ingessent ia l l y  task -or iented  informat ion.It is c la imed that the social  inter-act ional  and the verbal  in teract iona laspects of task -or iented  dia logs areimportant  enough to be represented  ina deta i led  way on a specia l  level.- Dia log proport ies  are not only exa-mined by prob lem so lv ing techniques I.Instead, extended pars ing  techniquesare used in 'parsing interact ions '  andthey are supposed to be he lpfu l  in de-termin ing the in teract iona l  s t ructureunder ly ing  utterances.Let us further speci fy  the k ind of inter-act ional  knowledge which  par t i c ipants  ofcerta in types of task -or iented  d ia logsare supposed to have as wel l  as ways torepresent  it.
The par t ic ipants  wi l lgenera l ly  know how to manage the social,the verbal  and the task -or iented  inter-actions.
They wi l l  genera l ly  know aboutseveral  rather  invariant, components  ofa certa in type of task -or iented  d ia logsas wel l  as of a normal  sequence of thesecomponents.
They know about the deta i led(alternative) st ructures of each compo-nent, the choice of which may depend onfactors as were ment ioned  above(a - e).They know- how to in i t iate  a social  contact /a  ver-bal in teract ion  and how to respondpos i t i ve ly /negat ive ly  to this in i t ia-tive;- how to cont inue/ to  mainta in  an inter-action,- how to s ignal ize  interest,  competenceor d i f f i cu l t ies  of) understand ing ,- how to organ ize  turn- tak ing,- how to in i t iate the te rminat ion  of asocial  contact /a  verbal  in teract ionand how to respond pos i t i ve ly  or nega-t ively to it.Part  of this knowledge may be descr ibedas sequences of soc ia l /verba l  inter-act ions, formal ly  to be represented  asconnected (sub-) networks  of an ATN.I.
e. soc ia l /verba l  in teract ion  is seenas a process of path se lect ion of (atleast) two par t i c ipants  in a network  ofstates and state t rans i t ions.
These(sub-) networks  should be set up on anempir ica l  bas is  ( recordings of natura l lyoccur ing  task -or iented  dialogs).An ExampleSome propert ies  of the in teract iona lknowledge ment ioned  above may be repre-sented in an ATN in a s t ra ight fo rwardway, whereas  the representat ion  ofothers seem less s t ra ight forward.Const i tuentsLet us assume that some types of infor-mat ion -g iv ing  dia logs may be ass igned a-488network  st ructure w i th  the fo l lowingconst i tuents  of soc ia l /verba l  inter-action:v lT ~<Z ?H@/9r..)o-5!121Each (sub-)network represents  sequencesof in teract ion- on the level of a d ia log type (a),- on the level of  speech act sequences(b), or- on the level  of tu rn - tak ing  organi -zat ion (c).The arcs indicate (alternative) statet rans i t ions / (a l te rnat ive)  courses ofinteract ion.
They may be marked or un-marked  ('JUMPs').Accord ing  to fig.
I a d ia log interact ionmay start:- w i th  a contact  in i t ia t ing  ut terance( "EXCUSE ME ..."), level a;- w i th  a quest ion  in t roducer  ("MAY IASK YOU ...") level b;- wi th  a task -spec i f i c  quest ion  ("WHEREDO I F IND ..."), level b;- w i th  a 'turn introducer '  ("YES"I "...") ,level c.Poss ib le  act ions may be sk ipped(cf--~4--~arrow), repeated ( loons; i tera-tion) or some sequences nay ~e embeddedinto other  sequences (cf.
QUESTION/ANSWER arc in the QUEST ION/ANSWER sub-network; recurs ion) .These subnetworks  are connected  to othernetworks  w i th  the same type of  infor-mat ion or wi th other  types of in for -mation:linguistic in format ion  in order  to re-cogn ize /generate  d i f ferent  forms (e. g.to in i t iate  a contact,  to int roducequest ions,  topass  turns) or d i rect /ind i rect  ways to ask a quest ion  ("9~EREDO I F IND ..." vs "I DO NOT KNOW ...","I SUPPOSE YOU KNOW ..."); task-orientedin format ion  in order  to bu i ld  up coherentsets of answers (on the basis  of atask-model) .Note that some ut terances  may serve- -489- -several  in teract iona l  roles ("MAY IASK YOU ..." ut tered at the beg inn ingof a d ia log in i t iates a contact  andin t roduces a quest ion.)
Specia l  testson arcs wi l l  recognize this and thecor respond ing  act ions wi l l  bu i ld  up anin teract iona l  s t ructure accord ing to suchmul t ip le  roles of const i tuents .
(A wayto see them from d i f ferent  perspect ives.
)In terpretat ion  of ArcsThe in teract iona?
in format ion  representedin an ATN-subnet  may be used to plan andto guide the recogn i t ion /generat ion  ofsoc ia l /verba l  in teract ion  as part of atask -or iented  dialog.
The in format ionrepresented  on an arc should be used forboth, for recogn i t ion  as wel l  as forp lann ing /generat ion .
The st ructure of the(sub-)networks is usefu l  in the sensethat 'normal' courses of in teract ion  areexp l i c i ty  represented.
So they areexpected  and ind icate  a k ind of inter-act ional  coherence of a task -or ienteddialog.
But speakers may v io late  suchnormal ly  respected d ia log sequences andthey can cope with this fact.
It isthere fore  des i rab le  to make a moref lexib le use of the in format ion  represen-ted in a network.
E. g. it seems des i rab leto ca lcu late  a (not yet exist ing) tran-s i t ion on the basis  of task -spec i f i ccues and/or  ut terance cues (for examplewhen a par t i c ipant  reopens an a l readyc losed subtask or when he repeats orreopens an a l ready executed  move orwhen he suddenly  terminates  an inter-action.Fur ther  deve lopmentsIt seems des i rab le  to have an extendedATN parser  in order  to cope with unex-pected d ia log sequences.
In implement ingaspects of soc ia l /verba l  in teract ionsone should examine carefu l ly  ef fortsmade5,9 - to use an ATN in a more f lexib le way- to combine recogn i t ion  and generat ionin an ATN 8, and- to bui ld  up several  in teract ing  ATNs".ReferencesI.
Appelt ,  D. E. "Problem solv ing Appl ied1980 to Lanauage Generat ion" ,Proc.
of the 18 th Meet ingof ACL, 59 - 63.2.
Bobrow, D. G. ,and the PARC unders tander1977 group, "GUS - I, a FrameDr iven Dia log System"Ar t i f i c ia l  In te l l igence8 :2 .3.
Goldste in,  I. P., M. L. Mi l ler  PAZATN:1976 A L ingu is t i c  Approachto Automat ic  Analys isof E lementary  Pro-gramming Protocols ,MIT AI MEMO 388.4.
Grosz, B.
"Discourse Knowledge" ,1978 in: D. Walker  (ed.)
Un-ders tand ing  Spoken Lan-guage, 229 - 3445.
Kwasny,  S., N. Sondhe imer  "Un-1979 grammat ica l i ty  and Extra-Grammat ica l i ty  in Natura lLanguage Unders tand ingSystems",Proc.
of the 17 th Meet ingcf ACL, 19 - 24.6.
Metzinq,  D. Implementat ion  of Inter-1979 act ional  ProcessesMemo Un ivers i ty  of B ie le-feld.7.
Sacks, U., E. Scheglof f ,  G. Je f ferson"A S implest  Systemat icsfor Conversat ion--490for the Organizationof Turn-Taking forConversation",Language 50, 696-735.8.
Shapiro, S. C. "Generalized Augmented1979 Transit ion NetworkGrammars for Generationfrom Semantic Networks",Proc.
of the 17 thMeeting of ACL, 25 - 29.9.
Weischedel, R. M., J. E. Black "If the1980 Parser Fails"Proc.
of the 18 thMeeting of ACL,95 - 96.10.
Woods, W..A.
"Transition Network1970 Grammars for NaturalLanguage Analysis~,CACM 13, 591 - 606.11.
- Research in Natural1978 Language Understanding,BBN-Report No.
396312.
Wunderlich, D. "Ein Sequenzmusterfur Ratschl~ge: Ana-lyse eines Beispiels",to appear'in: D. Metzing(ed) Dialogmuster undDialogprozesse (Hamburg).--491--
