LINGUISTIC MEANING AND KNOWLEDGE REPRESENTATIONIN AUTOMATIC UNDERSTANDING OF NATURAL LANGUAGEEva Haji~ov~ and Petr SgallCharles UniversityPragueCzechoslovakiaS ummaryThe necessity of and means fordistinguishing between a level of lin-guistic meaning and a domain of "factu-al knowledge" (or cognitive content)are argued for, supported by a surveyof relevant operational criteria.
Thelevel of meaning is characterized as asafe base for computational applicat-ions, which allows for a set of infer-ence rules accounting for the content(factual relations) of a given domain.1.
Linguistic ~eaningand Factual Knowledge1.1 The results gained in theoret-ical linguistic research as well as theexperience coming from the domain of au-tomatic understanding of natural langua-ge have convinced us that it is neces-sary to distinguish between two domains:(i) one of them has been called "theform of content" by F. de Saussure andL.
Hjelmslev, "Bedeutung" or "(linguis-tic) meaning" bF Coseriu and othersfrom European structural linguistics toDavid Lewis; (ii) the other domain - orset of' domains - concerns other thanlinguistic structurings of "cognitive(ontological) content" or "l actualknowleGge" (i. e. beliefs, assumptionsand other attitudes).From a linguistic point of viewthe i ormer laser is understood as be-longing to the system of' language (lin-guistic competence); it consists in apatterning of semantic ann pragmaticissues b3 the given language; thoughin this level of meaning (or tectogram-matics) languages do not aiffer to suchan extent as in other levels, there aresuch differences present here as thoseof the verbal aspects and tenses, ofthe restrictions of certain syntactic?
?constructions concerning expresslvepower ?
in the sense of Keenan I or thoseof the systemic ordering of particip-ants, cf.
Sgall and Haji~cv~ 2.
The lat-ter layer is not immediately structuredby the system of language, though thereare certain types of regular correspond-ence, which we want to discuss later.From a viewpoint of research inlogic the layer of (linguistic) meaningcan be identified with that of Frege'ssense , and with certain reservationsor extensions it can be regarded as acounterpart of Carnap's 3 intensionalstructure4; the aspects of the layer of(cognitive) content studied by logic ap-pear there in the shape of intensionalunits (concepts, propositions, truthconditions, etc.
).Other viewpoints from which thedichotomy should be studied systematic-ally are those of psychology, of arti-ficial intelligence, and, of course, ofthe siences studying the individual do-mains of (factual) knowledge.
In thepresent paper we concentrate on the re-lationship between the linguistic view-points and those of artificial intellig---67--ence (automatic understanding).The necessity of distinguishingbetween meaning and content is wellsubstantiated both from the viewpointof theoretical linguistics, as well asfrom that of linguistic computation:(a) Without distinguishing the le ~vel of meaning it is difficult to imag-ine an integrated description of lang-uage, since the linguistic structuringof semantic and pragmatic issues has tobe described independently on what weassume to be the "reel" or "actual"structure of the world.
The study ofcombinatorial properties of linguisticunits without taking account of the au-tonomous level of meaning leads direct-ly to the skepticism known from Postal,as well as to what Bar-Hillel called"excluding canibaiism by linguisticmeans": the selectional restrictions ofsuch a verb as eat would then be des-cribed by some framework including arelation defined on the set of eatersand on the set of eated objects, assign-in~.
grass to horses, mice to cats, butnot mice to horses or grass to cats,...In linguistic writings pursuing thisline we find such arguments as those byKuno 6, according to whom with The chic-ken on hi s farm is healthy it is lingu-istically relevant that on a farm thereis usually moire than one chicken at agiven time point; similarly Fillmore 7argues that "the wind.., is using itsown energy", or "the wind is the directcause of the door's opening".
However,it is not directly linguistically rele-vant whether a horse could (or would,under some conditions) eat mice, whet-her there are usually more or less chic-kens on farms, whether ~an will once beable to use himself the force of wind(also for closing doors, if not onlyfor driving wind mills), etc.
We havejust implicitly shown that mice can beused as object of eat with horse as sub-ject, and it is possible to find manysuch examples in the literature onstructural linguistics.
The structureof language itself is certainly condi-tioned to a large degree by the worldwe live in (as well as 03 the innateproperties of our species), but thereare Do immediate connections of thiskind between individual features of theworld (or our image of it) and individ-ual features of the language structure.An insufficient account oi the linguis-tic structuring of meaning has misledeven some of the best specialists inlinguistic semantics, as we have seen,and thus we consider it worth while tolook for a more precise boundary bet-ween meaning and content than thatwhich could have been given in the clas-sical structural linguistics.
(b) In the domain of automatic an-alysis of natural language it is al-ways necessary to work with a levelZ'unctioning as the output language ofthe analysis procedure.
I1 we arespeaking about understanding naturallan~uage (i'or such purposes as questionanswering, machine translation, man-machine aialogue or other aims withinthe area of artilicial intelligence)rather thanabout mere surlace parsing,then the output of the analysis is re-quirea to Dear a aisambigmatea inIor-mation; a language must be defined forthis purpose which can get a semanticinterpretation (in Carnap's sense);this must be a language the (element-at# and complex) units of which are un-ambiguous.
However, they cannot be ful-ly relieved of vagueness or indistinct-ness (this concerns not only hedges orfuzz# units, but also the indeterminacyof reference, which is removed in human- 68 - -discourse by mechanisms some of whichare of a linguistic nature, but all ofwhich are pragmatically based, cf.
?
2below).
@he distinction between ambig-uity and vagueness (indistinctness)belongs to the distinction between me-aning and content: a linguistic expres-sion is ambiguous iff it has more thanone meaning; a linguistic unit is vag-ue iff it is a unit of meaning corres-ponding to two or more units of a rel-evant structuring of the layer of con-tent.
In most systems of automotic un-derstanding the domains of meaning andcontent are not distinguished, and thisfallacy leads to two ma~or difficulti-es: First, no clear criteria could ha-ve been found for a classification o?units of the "cognitive" domain, be itdescribed in a form of nets, frames,scripts, or by another' means of "know-ledge representation'; only for theclasses of texts belonging to one ofthe "exact sciences" it i8 possible touse the structuring elaborated withinthe competent science (mathematics,chemistry), but even there this doesnot cover consistentlF the requirementsof the analysis of those parts of textswhich are concerned with motivation andbackground analysis.
Second, and mostimportant, the structuring of the layerof content that is made by the methodof trial and error, in the experiment-sl systems, often leads to the neces-sity to postulate more and more subtlestructuring; thus e. g. for the Fill-morean case roles it appears that everysmall group of verbs (of saying, ofperception, of movement, of simple phy-sical actions, of puz~chase, etc., etc.
)has its own set of roles: no elementof the set {buyer, seller, goods, pri-c~ is identical with any element ofthe set ~speaker, addressee, objectspoken of, type of messag~ , etc.
(seee.
g. Fillmore 7 quoting Cole).
Thusit seems there is no boundary thatwould ensure the possibility to descri-be the structuring(s) of content by fi-nite means.
Every system of naturallanguage understanding then has to berestricted to a certain domain and the-re i8 no guaranty that the oasis of thesystem would have to be rebuilt if thetime comes to apply the system to an-other area.On the other hand, when the struct-uring of meaning inherent to naturallanguage itself i8 well understood andappropriately used, then the universal-ity of natural language (which allowsits users to express everything theycan think of, with the necessary degreeof precision) gives at least a commonbasis for the most divergent domains ofcognition (or types of texts), frcmscience to pop-music, and that only themechanisms accounting for the reldtion-ships between the (comm~on, general)linguistic meaning and the (specific,more or less ad hoc) factual knowledgeof the given area will be to a certaindegree specific to this area.1.2  However, is i~ actually pos-sible to find a clearly specified boun-dary between meaning and content, tofind operational criteria showing whatdistinction belongs to the level of me-aning?
As.
H. Putnam's account of lex-ical meaning has shown, there is a cer-tain "division of labour", connectedwith individual and temporal differen-ces of the boundaries between meaningand content.
However, some basic lay-ers of terminology (e. g. the kinshipterms) may serve as an evidence thateven in the lexicon there are clearcases in which the knowledge of a ~iven?
69meaning (within linguistic competence)is not intermingled with requirementsconcerning factual knowledge.
Also thepossibility to find fully synonymouspairs of' words (connected with a merestylistical, non-semantic difference)and distinguish them from others cor-roborates the view that Putnam's "divi-sion of labor" is a symptom of individ-ual difference in a language communityrather than of an absence of a differ-ence of principle between meaning andcontent.
:In any case, with respect togrammatical relations (expressed byfunction words, endings, word order,etc.
), the distinction between meaningand content can be established on thebase of criteria that have been elabor-ated and explored in the classical pe-riods of European structuralism, as wellas more recently by Keenan 8, by Zwickyand Sadock 9 and b~ others.None of these criteria can be c la~med to have an absolute validity: theold maxim according to which only phra-ses of the same syntactic value can becoordinated does not hold 1'or such ex-amples as here and now or for the sakeof A and in spite of B; the tes~ usedto distinguish topic and focus by meansof question or negation are not immedi-ately useful for interrogative senten-ces; the requirement that the speakermust know which of the two meanings ofan ambiguous expression he "had in mind"meets ~ifficulties in connection with afirst person subject (having said I rol-led down the hill the speaker of courseknows whether he acted as a consciousagent, or only as an "experiencer" orpassive objective, but with John rol-led.., the situation certainly is notthe same); Panevov~'s 10 "dialogue testworks better with aaverbials than withthe "inner participants" (having saiaJohn is coming the speaker is expecteuto know where to; but with He has paid~ l re~ it is not clear whether fo_.rw~a__t has to be understood as deleted,i.
e. known); the systemic ordering ofthe modifications of verbs 2 may be usedas a useful means to distinguish bet-ween different types of modifications,but the results are not always of thesame degree of certainty, etc.
~verysuch - or another - type of a "diagnos-tical context' may be considered highlyuseful, even if in some cases it doesnot give clear results.
It has beenpossible to use such criteria to estab-lish clear notions of the obligatorin-ess of adverbials (see the "dialoguetest" just quoted), of the topic/focusarticulation, of presupposition andallegation, of the scope of negation~ I'12Also an operational criterion for iden-tifying strict synonymy of grammaticalconstructions has been formulated, whichmakes it possible to combine empiricalresearch in linguistic semantics withthe theoretical framework of truth con-ditions and possible worlds 4, thoughmany linguists doubted the possibilityto connect these two domains (cf.
thenotions of "internal" and "external"semantics in Fillmore.
72.
~ethods for s GeneralAccount of Linguistic Meaning2.1 According to the criteria cha-racterized in 1.2 a repertoire of unitsof the level of meaning (structured moresubtly than truth conditions are) and ofrelations between them has been establ-ished.
A generative specification ofthis level was discussed in our paperat Coling 1978 in Bergen.
13The meaning of a sentence can berepresented by a rather simple tree (in-70-accordance with the traditions of Eu-ropean linguistics we prefer dependencyto categorial or phrase structure gram-mars) with the following properties:(a) the tree has a single root, isfinite, connected and projective (cf.Hays 14, NarcuslS);(b) the edges are labelled by thetypes of modifications, which are lis-ted partly in the lexical (not onlyverbal) frames of the "governing" lex-ical unit, and partly in a list of freemodifications (adverbials), common toall the units of a given part of speech;besides the Actor/Bearer (rather thanAgentive, see Haji~ov~ 16) the verbalframes may contain the Patient (Goal),and, if these participants both arepresent in the frame, then also the Ad-dressee, the Origin and/or the Zffectmay be included there; Instrument,~mnner, Measure, various types of Loc-ative, Duration, Cause, Condition, etc.belong to the list of free modificati-ons; they can occur with every verb -at least in principle, i. e. are notexcluded linguistically - and they mayoccur even more than once with a singleverb token; they have to be listed inindividual frames only if they are ob-ligatory with the given verb; withnouns, the General Relation is a typic-al free modification, while the Patienthas to be included in the frame of suchnouns as directQr, etc.
;(c) the nodes are labelled by com-plex symbols corresponding to leXicaland morphological meanings (the lattercomprise tense, aspect, modality andothers with verbs, numoer and delimit-ire features with nouns, degrees ofcomparison with adjectives);(d) the "left-to-right" order ofthe nodes is interpreted as the "deepword order" or communicative dynamism,which corresponds to the order of quan-tifiers in formal languages; on thisscale the boundary Oetween topic andfocus can be established (primarilyjust before or just after the verb);the scope of negation i~ identical withthe focus in the unmarked case.2.2 The level of meaning containssemantic and also pragmatic units (in-dexical elements, modalities, tenses,etc.).
Also the topic/focus articulationand the hierarchy of dynamism are prag-matically based: only such items can beused as contextually bound that havebeen activated by the context, i. e.have a great degree of salience in thestock of "knowledge" shared by the spe-aker and the hearer; also definite NP'sin the focus meet such a requirement, sothat their referents may be identifiedby the hearer on the base of the stateof his model of the world in the giventime point of the discourse (cf.
Barba-ra Grosz" "shifting of focus ''17).
Inthese questions the study of the struct-ure of natural language should be con-nected with psjc\[\]ologically oriented in-vestigations into the structure of humanmemory.Also the connections between mean-ing and intensional logic are beingstudied.
The linguistic (s~ntactico-se-mantic) analysis translating sentencesto their semantic (tectogrammatical) re-presentations is combined with a proced-ure translating these representations toa formal language based on the theory oftypes; meaning postulates are used inthis procedure, which also converts thepatterning of obligatory and optionalmodifications (dependent words) intostructures connected with the arity ofpredicates; furthermore, communicativedynamism is transferred here to the--71--usual form of denoting the scope of thequantifiers.The linguistic description itselfhas a generative power moderately ex-ceeding that of context-free grammars,according to a scale constituted by a18 sequence of pushdown transducers .3.
Approachesto Knowledge RePrgsentatiog(compared with the expressivepower of natural language)3.1 There are many different de-grees of complexity connected with therepresentation of data (information,knowledge), from simple data basesthrough more sophisticated ones to cogn-itive networks and other kinds of appar-atus.
Most of these approaches are bas-ed on experimental research in a rest-ricted domain and thus connected withdifferent kinds of rules of thumb andad-hoc devices, so that it can be nevertaken for sure whther a broadening ofthe investigated domain would not re-quire a radical change of the approach.?
c 19  In Schank s conceptual dependen y ,lot instance, there are five "cases"(actor, objective, recipient, directive,instrument) as conceptual categories ofrelations between actions and nominaL,in addition to another set of relationsof' specification, understood as a rel-ation between action and modifier and ayet another set of relations betweenthe concept categories of nominals andmoailiers.
There are 13 types of prim-itive acts (e. g. physical transaction,mental transaction, etc.
), each oZ whichhas a frame ascribed to it, which spe-cifies the set of "cases" necessarilypresent in the conceptualization, evenif not in the surface structure of thesentence identifying the given action.An actor of a physical transaction isunderstood to be a relation differentfrom that of an actor of a mentaltransaction; thus one arrives at a num-ber of 80 different case relations inaddition to a great number of specific-ation and state relations.Such a system in fact works withdifferent case roles for very smallgroups of verbs; in other words, theroles sre then "word-specific".Simmons "20 conviction that John, th__~machine and the brook in the sentencesJohn ran to school.
John ran the machi-ne.
The machine ran.
The brook ran allare instances of "causal actants" andthat the specification of "instruments"with which the action of "running" isperformed should be specified in thelexicon for di\[Iferent meanings of theverb "run" rsther than regarded as amatter of the semantic representations(semantic networks) of these sentencesmay be quoted as a support for the viewthat even when attempting at a classific-ation of units and relations within asystem of knowledge representation, oneshould carefull$ observe the propertiesof language structure itself.Also Schlesinger 21 duly recallsthat one should distinguish the domainof cognitive structures (with a greatvariety of distinctions) and the levelof semantic deep structures, with a li-mited number of deep structure relationaIn the domain of cognitive structures,he speaks about a conceptual continuum(or even about a multidimensional cognit-ive space) which each language segmentsin its own way (a reminder - without aspecific reference - of the well knownHjelmslevian approach).It might be objected that more canbe inferred from a representation inclu-ding the (word-speoifio) roles.
The72object of such verbs as mak_.e, build re-fers to something which comes into exi-stence through the action denoted bythe verb, and this fact is not capturedby a notation handling the object ofthese verbs simply as 8 Patient, i. e.in the same way as that of see, bit,etc.
However, in many cases the infer-ence that the o00ect exists after theaction cannot be based immediately onthe verb itself (we have not onlya.
picture, but also a i n t ~ ,  notto speak about painting a fence); withsuch outspoken cases as build the lex-ical meaning of the object noun perhapsis not relevant, but the modality ofthe verb is (if one wants to build ahouse, one may fail to do it).
It ap-pears that in any case the formulationof adequate inference rules of thiskind requires a classification of lexic-al as well as grammatical meanings.3.2 Under the given conditions acertain amount of trial-and-error work,analyzing one lexical unit after anot-her without an explicit statement ofgeneral criteria, is more or less ine-vitable in'the domain of content(ex-cept for the regulerities known by thescience concerning the studied domain).It seems, however, advisable to use arelatively complete analysis of thestructure of natural language as a basefrom which these or other parts may bechosen for a given application, ensur-ing that such simplifications can bereplaced by a fuller specification ifthis becomes necessary, since the baseis universal, in the same way as natur-al language is.
The empirical investig-ation of natural language syntax andsemantics, using a formal framework,thus appears to belong to the most im-portant preconditions of natural langu-age understanding.Also the use of such notions astopic and comment or focus in connecti-on with question answering 22'23 sup-ports the view that a deep understand-ing of the structure of natural langu-age is of crucial importance for thelinguistic aspects of artificial intel-ligence.~ Ru!eg_of Inference(as a means to account for factualknowledge in automatic understandingof natural language)4.1 The above considerations haveled us to the conclusion that rules ofinference operating on the representat-ions of the meaning of sentences (cf.
?2.1 above) may be useful to handle therelationships between meaning and con-tent ("factual knowledge").
Such rulesof inference are used in connectionwith the method TIBAQ (Text-and-Infer-ence Based Answering of Questions) bythe linguistic group of Charles Univers-ity, Prague (Fac.
of Mathematics andPhysics);An experiment has been prepared inthe form of algorithms that are beingimplemented now (in Q-language, PL-i,and Assembler), the aim of which is toshow that a relatively rich analysis ofnatural language makes it possible toconstruct fully automatic question ans-wering systems based only on input textsand factual questions in natural langu-age.
A set of inference rules is includ-ed, operating on the representations ofthe meanings of the input sentences.These rules range from general ones tomore or less idiosyncratic cases con-cerning the relationships between spec-ific words, as well as modalities, h~po-nym,y, etc.--73--A rather general rule changes e.g.a structure of the form (V-act (l~Acto r)...) into (V-act (DActor)(Rinstr)...),where V-act is a verb of action, D isa dummy (for the general actor) and Nis an inanimate noun; thus The negativefeedback can_servo the voltage to zerois changed into One can servo the volt-a6e to zero by ..... A rather specificrule \[connected with a single verb) isthat changing (us_..~ (Xpatient)(YAccomp)...) into (use (XRegard)(ZPatient)...),e.g.
An operational amplifier can be.
.
.
.
, .. , ,used with a negative feedback = ~fith ano~erational24uplifier a negative feedbackcan be used.
Other similar rules concernthe division of conjunct clauses, thepossible omission of an adjunct undercertain conditions (i.a.
if not beingincluded in the topic), as well as theconnection of two sentences one of whichcan be embedded into another.In the look-up for an answer inthe set of assertions (enriched by therules of inference) we have formulatedsubstitutions, some of which again aregeneral (e.g.
I~!anner is considered assubstitutable by Accompan~nent or byEffect, Place by Regard), others beingrestricted to individual verbs: use howmay be answered by use for (purpose),etc.4.2 Besides the kinds of rulesillustrated above it is also necessaryto study (i) rules standing closer toinference as known from logic (derivingspecific statements from general ones,etc.
), (ii) rules of "typical" (unmark-ed) consequences as given e.g.
by a"script" , and (iii) rules of "probableconsequence", e.g.
if John worked hardin the afternoon and he is tired in theevening, then the latter fact probablywas caused by the former (if no othercause was given in the text).
In ourexperiment of question answering we donot  use these  types  of  in fe rence ,  butthey  w i l l  be use fu l  fo r  more genera lsys tems.A broaden ing  of  the  scope  of theexper iment  (which now concerns  a sub-domain of  e lec t ron ics )  w i l l  requ i re  con-s iderab le  mod i f i ca t ions  of  the  in fe renceru les ,  s ince  in  the  domain of  the  re la t -i onsh ip  between meaning and content weare entering a new domain, the regtllar-ities of which have to be studied joint-ly by logicians, psychologists, ling-uists and specialists in artificial in-telligence.
However, the linguistic proc-edures will have to be enriched mainlywith respect to the lexicon, where newquestions of principle would- not arise,if the questions of gra,~nar have beenhandled adequately.
Technical textswritten with a necessary niveau of clearformulations, carefully defining newlyintroduced terms and distinguishing de-finitions from assertions, can be well"understood" by such a linguisticallybased system.
This means that Karlgren'ssystems 24 of the third type, using theusual human expression as input and pre-senting their output in natural language,are already feasible?
It is possible toattempt seriously at a solution of oneof the main tasks of linguistics: toconform the automatic information syst-ems to the usual way of life of humanbeings.The structure of natural language,including its patterning of the units ofmeaning, has to be empirically studiedand explicitly described.
The ambiguit-ies and irregularities inherent to nat-ural language may then be removed, whileits flexibility (com~ected with a necess-ary ~nount of vagueness) is retained.
Insuch a way natural language understand-ing can be given a sound general basis.This view is supported by ~Jilks 25, who74duly argues that the formulae in know-ledge representations should representthe meanings of words, and nothing else:a man knows about the real world nothingmore than can be expressed in naturallanguage (giving examples of the verbsto break - which need not have an Instr-umental, and t o ~ ,  which should haveone),Also RitchJe 26 comes close to thisstandpoint saying that hypotheses "mustbe based more on the actual patternswithin language, rather than on currentdogmas ..."; he is also right in point-ing out the usefulness of choosing sem-antic categories generally applicable,thus avoiding the risk of having to con-struct "as many different analyzing gram-mars as there were domains of discourse".It seems to be justified to comb-ine the study and description of langu-age w i th  those of the domain(s) cover-ing the given area of content and ofpsychological phenomena, to be able toconstruct systems of general applicab-ility as well as to reach a better under-standing of cognition.Referencesi E.L.Keenan, Logical Expressive Powerand Syntactic Variation in NaturalLanguage, in: Formal Semantics of ~L(E.L.Keenan, ed.
), Cambridge 1975,406-421.2 P. Sgall and E.HajiSovg, Focus on Foc-us, PBML 28, 1977, 5-54; 29, 1978,23-42.3 R.Carnap, Meaning and Necessity, Chic-ago 1947.4 P.Sgall, E.Haji~ovg and O.Prochgzka,On the Role of Linguistic Semantics,Theor.Ling.
4, 1977, 31-59.5 P.M.Postal, The Best Theory, in: Goalsof Linguistic Theory (P.S.Peters,ed.
),Englewood Cliffs, 1972.6 S.Kuno, The Structure of the JapaneseLanguage, Cambridge, Mass., 1973,P.43.7 C.J.Fillmore, The Case for Case Reopen-ed, in: Kasus Theorie, Klassifikation,sem.
Interpretation (K.Heger,J.S~Pet~fi,eds.
),Hamburg,1977,3-26,?4.8 E.L.Keenan, Some Logical Problems inTranslation, in: Meaning and Translati-on (F.Guenthner, M.Guenthner-Reu~er,eds.
),London 1978,eSpop.173.A.M.Zwlck y and J.M.Sadock, AmbiguityTests and How to Fail Them, in:Syntaxand Semantics 4 (J.P.Kimball,ed.
),New York 1975, 1-36.lO J.Panevovg, Inner Participants andFree Adverbials, Prague Studies inMath.Li~g~ 6, 1978, 227-254.ll E.Haji~ovg, Negation and Topic vs.Comment, Philologica Pragensia 16~1973,81-93; also in P.Sgall, E.HajiSova,E.Bene~ovg, Topic, Focus and GenerativeSemantics, Kronberg/Taunus 1973.12 E.Haji~ov~, Meaning, Presupposition andAllegation, Philologica Pragensia 17,1974,18-25;reprinted in FunctionalGenerative Grammar in Prague (W.Klein,A.v.Stechow, eds.
), Kronberg/Ts.,1974.13 E.HajiSovg and P.Sgall, A Dependency--based Specification of Topic and Foc-us, SMIL 1980.14 D.G.Hays, Dependency Theory, Language40, 1964, 511-525.15 S.Marcus, Sur la notion de projectivit~,Ztschr.f.~ath.Logik ll, 1965, 181-192.16 E.Haji~e~g, Agentive or Actor/Bearer?Theoretical Linguistics 7, 1980.17 A.E?Robinson et al, Interpreting Nat-ural Language Utterances, TN 210, SRIInternational, Menlo Park, 1980.18 M.Plgtek and P.Sgall, A Scale of Context-Sensitive Languages, Information andControl 38, 1978, 1-20.19 R.Schank, Identification of Conceptual-izations Underlying NL, in:ComputerYodels of Thought and Language, SanFrancisco 1973, 187-247.20 R.Simmons, Semantic ~etworks, in:Comp.Models of Thought and Lang,dtto,63-113.21 I.M.Schlessinger, Cognitive Structuresand Semantic Deep Structures, Journalof Ling.
15, 1979, 307-324.22 H.Karlgren and D.Walker, The PolytextSystem, Stockholm 1980.23 K.R.McKeown, Paraphrasing Using Givenand ~ew Information, Philadelphia 1979.24 D.Walker and H.Karlgren, paper submitt-ed at Visegrad meeting on QuestionAnswering, 1980.25 Y.Wilks, Preference Semantics, StanfordA.I.Memo 206, 1973.26 G.D.Ritchie, Predictions and Proceduresin Semantically-Based Grammar, in:Proc.of AISB Conf., Hamburg 1978, 273-282.-75\
