A CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK FOR AUTOMATIC AND DYNAMIC THESAURUS UPDATINGIN INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SYSTEMSM.F.
BRUANDETLaboratoire IMAGB.P.
53X, 38041 GRENOBLE Cedex (France)ABSTRACTThis paper aims at presenting a methodology forautomatic thesaurus construction in order tohelp the search of documents and we want toobtain the development of classes for specifictopics (for a given corpus) without a priorisemantic information.
Information contained inthe thesaurus lead to new search formulationsvia automatic and/or user feedback.
This pre-sentation even being theoretical is orientedtoward a database implementation.Preliminary remarksDifferent strategies used in Information Retrie-val Systems must be developped to increase "re-call" and "precision ''8'9.
The classic one is theconstruction of thesaurus.
A thesaurus is usual-ly defined as a set of terms (called descriptors)and a set of relations between these terms.This study is made for an information retrievalsystem using an inverted file (bitmap, each key-word points to a set of documents containingthis keyword).
For formulating a request theuser defines a set of keywords and boolean opera-tors on this set (for example MISTRAL, GOLEM-PASSAT, STAIRS systems).
When entering a docu-ment into the database, a module (e.g.
PIAF) 4,5generates stems from the data (several grammati-cal variants of the same word are reduced to acanonical form).
We call this form an item.Thesaurus construction in the contextof local documentsOur object is to find a method for the construc-tion of non-hierarchical relations and the defi-nition of item clusters from these relations.A point to be underlined is that this methodolo-gy could efficiently be used only on homogeneouscollections of texts.
To this purpose, we onlyconsider a database subset : the local set ofall documents returned from a given query.
Thelocal clustering method makes use of the commonoccurrences of items within a certain "neighbo-rhood", this method has been studied by R.ATTAR and A.S. FRAENKEL (in "Local feedback infull-text retrieval") I.Let be D?
the local set of documents retrievedfrom a given query and TZ the set of items con-tained in DZ.
We define a metrical functionwhich is inversely proportional to the distancebetween items in the same sentence.
Each item isdefined by its coordinates (DN, SN, IN) whereDN is the document number, SN the sentence num-ber and IN the item number within a sentence.For any item t?
T~, let wt(i) be the coordinateof the ith occurrence of t.For any couple (s,t) ?
T~ ?
T%, we defined = ?\]wt(i) - Ws(J) \] the distance between the ithoccurrence of t and j th occurrence of s.In fact,(\]) d-- \ ] INt( i ) - INs( J)  \] w i th IDNt( i )  = DNs(j)SNt(i) SNs(J)Let be F a function of the distance d :Ii I/d if wt(i) , Ws(J) arein the same sentence (2) Fkwt~i),Ws<J)jt r ~ t..\~ = with d -< 200 otherwise.For s and t e T% we define :(3) b(s,t) = I I F(wt(i), Ws(J) )i jwhere the summation is over all occurrences iand j of s and t.Remark : b(s,t) = b(t,s).In order to normalize the function, we takeb(s,t) ~R(S,t)  - ~ where f(t) is the number ofoccurrences of t for all local documents D?0 -< ~R(S,t) <- I.Through this function, we obtain for an item sa reference vector R which is a list of items ts related to s, such as DR(S,t) is greater (orequal) than a threshold-e.
These values form aneigen vector : E R .sTaking into account new local informationin thesaurus updatingWithout excluding for the thesaurus the search ofhierarchical relations (specific or generic), wetry tO build a set or a group of items having anotion of "similarity" or "liaison" between them-selves.
This thesaurus is built as the answers ofthe used Information Retrieval System are analy-sed.
It must be structured so that the updatingshould be dynamic and automatic ; the implementa-tion study has not yet been examined.
The mainproblem of updating is to take into account"liaisons", "proximities" or "similarities" bet-ween the already registered items in the thesau-rus and the new liaisons found after a new query.For any query, we obtain a set of items relatedto s. Let be R the previous reference vector?
$(~R its assoclated function) and R's the newlyscalculated vector (~R' its associated function).s--586--A new reference vector may be calculated from Rand R' us ing  two funct ions  m(s , t )  and M(s , t )  : sS(4)Min(~ R (s,t),~R,(S,t))S Sm(s,t) = 1 - IIIDI R I(sI, t ) -~g, (S , t ) ls s(5)Max(~ R (s,t),PR,(S,t))S SM(s,t) = I + I~ R (s,t)-~R , (s,t)\[S SThe function M involves all the items t whichare related, or not, to s in R and Ri (see TableI).
The function m allows us t~ consider only theitems which are both in R and in R' (see TableS S I).One might consider m and M to be respectively theunion and intersection of items t related to s.Table I using the above functions m and M (formulas (4), (5))Min(~R '~R' ) Max(~R 'DR' )S S S~Rs (s,t) ~R,(S,t)s m = 1_\]~ R -~R' \] M = 1+\]~ R ~R,IS S S S0 l indeterminate 0.50 0.2 0 0.1660 0.8 0 0.44.l 00.10.10.10.10,10,10.10.10.90.80.70.60.50.40.30.20.10.50.330.250.20.160.
1420.1250 .110 .10.50.470.430.400.360.300.250.180.10.5 0.5 0.5 0.50'.9 0.2 0.66 0.520.9 0.4 0.8 0.60.9 0.5 0.83 0.640.9 0.6 0.85 0.690.9 0.8 0.88 0.81Functions m and M consider the weakest and thestrongest bindings between items.
Any associa-tion between s and t is meaningful only as re-gard to the "binding strength", that is to saythe value of the association function.Use of the functions m and M for thesaurus cons-truction and updatingFor an item x, only the items related to x inseveral local contexts must be considered in thethesaurus.
Thus, it is necessary to keep recordsof the initial queries into a pseudo-thesaurus.In this pseudo-thesaurus is registered, for anyitem x, the set of items related to x in one ormore local contexts.Let bePS x = {t/~ps(X,t ) e ~}for x belonging to the set of items T, (T = uT%).Concerning an item x of T~, three re-ference vectors (and their associated functions)can be yielded : R , PS and T which are the?
X sets of items t re~ated to x x respectlvely consi-dered in the treated local context, in one or.more local contexts kept in the pseudo-thesaurus,and in the global context kept in the thesaurus.These sets can be void, also several cases canbe encountered :I) PS and T are not void X XThe updating process is performed in threesteps :Step l : ~ ~ _ 2 ~ _ ~ _ ~In order to know, if the newly calculated liai-sons in R x already exist in other local context,we compare R x and PS x.Only the common items of these two referencevectors are considered, and we form a temporaryreference vector P using the function m (for-mula (4)).
xIn Px only items from R x which are previouslyrelated to x in at least one context are retai-ned.
The stronger connections are decreased (seeTable \[) because we can suppose they are onlylocal.Step 2 : Thesaurus_H~a~_Er~e~ ~The thesaurus updating is made in two differentways :(i) if Px.and T x contain the same items t, onlythe elgen vector E T (of Tx) is modifiedusing the function ~ (formula (4)) ;- -587- -(ii) if the items t in T x are different from thoseoccuring in Px' then a new reference vectorT is constructed combinating the values of xfunctlons D T and ~PS using M (formula(5 ) ) .
x xRemarks :- We do not calculate the new association func-t ion between two items for T with m (formula?
x(4)), because we do not introduce new itemsrelated to x in the thesaurus, when new itemsappear in several local contexts.- The function M uses the common or not commonitems and introduces in the thesaurus the newitems, which are related to x in at least twolocal contexts.Step 3 : Pseudo-thesaurus ~!
!~_~!~!~The pseudo-thesaurus updating must take intoaccount the new items Occuring in R x.
The newassociation function for PS x is calculated fromthe association function ~R and the old associa-tion function ~PS using M ~formula (5)).x2) PS and T are voidx xThis case corresponds to the situation~lere x isnever appeared in any local context.
We createthe reference vectors PS in the pseudo-thesaurus.
and R x with the assoclatlon function ~R (PSx =Rx).
No information about x is kept in ~he the-saurus (T x = ~).3) PS x is not void and T x is voidThis corresponds to the case where x is alreadyappeared in only one local context.
If R x # ?,then we can build the initial reference vectorT in the thesaurus.
We use the association func-tion m (formula (4)) calculated from the valuesof association functions D R and Dps (respecti-?
x ~R vely contained in the elgen vectors x and EpSx).The present experimentation exhibits among theitems related to x in T x (initial step) localsynonyms, some global synonyms and many parasis-tic items.
After a few thesaurus updatings thevalues of the association function for parasisticitems rapidly decrease, and the values for localand global synonyms increase.
It is clear thatreliability of such a thesaurus can be reachedonly after a large number of queries.
In such asituation new updating procedures might be consi-dered so that new parasistic items should not beintroduced in T x (thus breaking the stability ofTx).Global treatment of thesaurusLet be T the large set of items registered in thethesaurus.
In order to classify T (i.e.
to splitT into classes of similar items), we consider thecouple of reference vectors T x and Ty (so E T andx E T ) for any items x and y.YLet be r(x,y) a similarity measure :Z Min(D T , D T )(6) r(x,y) = T x yZ Max(D T , D T )T x y(7) d(x,y) = 1-r(x,y) is a pseudo-distance whoserange is \[0,1\].We can use an association matrix (i.e.
term-termmatrix) between items and found a partition of Tin equivalence classes.
Moreover, this methodhardly applies to a great many items and does notseem realistic for a large scale dictionnary(6000 or 10000 items, for example) which arecommon in information retrieval field.
To over-come this drawback, we may try to build up theglobal association matrix from the local ones.Some ideas have been suggested 2 using the fuzzysets theory6, 13 but there are still theoreticalapproaches.Feedback query processingNumber of parers are related to thefeedback queryprocessing\],v, \]2 and our approach is similar.We think to adopt the following strategy, thoughwe lack practical results to assert better "score"on queries.After a query we have therefore a set R of items srelated to s (for each s ~ T~) and a partition ofT% into equivalence classes F 4.
In the thesauruswe might have both a set T (Jitems related to s)and a partition of the global set T into equiva-lence classes C.. iSeveral strategies can be used, they are detai-led in an other paper 4.
We can use only localcontext, global context or both global and localcontext.
We summarize some of the solutions below :\]) use of only global contextA query is automatically generated with t insteadof x when t belongs to the reference vector Tand ~T (x,t) is greater or equal than a threshold~.
xIf the user agrees, a new query is generated witht when x and t are equivalent in the thesaurus.2) use of both local and global contextWhen an item t is considered as "similar" to xboth in local context (Rx) and in global context(Tx) and D R (x,t) N D T (x,t), t automaticallyx xreplaces x in the query.
When R and T x havecommon items, we can purpose toXthe user newqueries with item t appearing in T x but not inRx (~T (x,t) e ~).xAs previously mentioned we can use the same stra-tegy using the local equivalence classes F. andglobal equivalence classes C~ (automatic fled-back query processing with xlc C. n F., and under i j user control with x e C i but x ~ C i n Fj andC i n Fj # ~).In this last case, we can think global synonymiesallow to retrieve new documents originally leftout.--588--From the previous analysis, it seems that thebest strategies should be those using both localand global contexts, but this needs to be veri-fied.ConclusionsWe conclude from present experimentation on smallnumber of french texts that the thesaurus upda-ting method shall give horizontal thesaurusrelations.Moreover unexpected relation between itemsshould appear in the thesaurus, that is associa-tion which strongly reflects the corpus' contentand which could not a priori be established andenhanced.The methodology presented above does not exclu-de any further intervention on the thesaurusto refine semantic information about some parti-cular cases, such as modifying values of the as-sociation function for some items, enrichingdefinition of synonyms,Our next goal for such a design of the thesau-rus is twofold :I) we wish to make possible non boolean queriesthrough the use of fuzzy keywords and subse-quent improvement of dialogue ;2) we wish to cluster documents with a dynamicindexing mechanism.REFERENCESR.
ATTAR & A.S. FRAENKELLocal feedback in full text retrieval systems.Journal of ACM, vol.20, n?3, pp.
397-417,July 1977.M.F.
BRUANDETApropos  de la construction automatique d'unthesaurus flou dans un syst~me de recherched'information (syst~me documentaire).Internal research report IMAG Grenoble,Juin 1980.M.F.
BRUANDETA conceptual framework for automatic and dy-namic thesaurus updating and for feedbackquery processing.Processing of SECOND INTERNATIONAL CONFE-RENCE ON DATA BASES IN THE HUMANITIES ANDSOCIAL SCIENCES, Madrid, Juin 1980.J.
COURTINAlgorithmes pour le traitement interactif deslangues naturelles.Th~se d'Etat soutenue g l'Universitg Scienti-fique et M~dicale de Grenoble, INPG, Octobre1977.E.
GRANDJEANProjet PIAF - Application g la documentationautomatique : dgfinition et utilisation duproduit prototype PIAFDOC.Internal research report, IMAG Grenoble, 1979.T.
RADECKIMathematical model of information retrievalsystem based on the concept of fuzzy thesau-rus.Information processing and management, vol.12,pp.
313-318, Pergamon Press, 1976.L.
REISINGEROn fuzzy thesaurus.COMPSTAT/4 - Proc.
Symp.
Computational sta-tistics, Bruckman b, Fershl I, Schmetterer -Vienna Physics Verlag?G.
SALTONThe smart retrieval system, experiments inautomatic.Document processing (ch.21 - the use of sta-tistical significance in relevance feedback.J.S.
Brown, P.D.
Reilly), Prentice Hall, 1971.G.
SALTONDynamic information processing.Prentice Hall 1975.I0 G. SALTON and D. BERGMARKClustered file generation and its applicationto computer Science taxonomies.IFIP Information processing 77, pp.
441-447,North Holland publishing company.11 W. SILVERTSymmetric summation : a class of operationson fuzzy sets.IEEE Trans.
SMC, 1979.12 C.T.
YU, M.K.
SIUEffective automatic indexing using term addi-tion and deletion.Journal of ACM, vol.12, n=2, April 1978,pp.
210-225.13 L.A. ZADEHFuzzy sets, Information and control.pp.
338-353, 1965.~589--
