GOAL ORIENTED PARSING: IMPROVING THE EFFICIENCY OFNATURAL LANGUAGE ACCESS TO RELATIONAL DATA BASESGiovanni GuidaHilan Polytechnic Art i f i c ia l  Intelligence ProjectPolitecnico di MilanoMilan, ItalyThis paper is devoted to present a new appro-ach to natural language understanding which iscalled here goal-oriented parsing.
The interac-tion in natural language with a r t i f i c ia l  sy-stems (robots, data base systems, program gene-rators, question-answering systems, etc.)
doesnot require in most cases of actual interesta ful l  (human like) comprehension of naturallanguage in all its details and nuances.
A par-t ia l  understanding is often enough ,wich ex-tracts from the natural language expressionsthe only significant information which is ne-cessary to construct a correct formal input forthe target system.
In such a model of comprehen-sion the same meaning is assigned to severaldifferent natural language expressions, thusdefining a many-to-one mapping between naturallanguage sentences and corresponding formal re-presentations.
We argue that a bounded scope,restricted, goal-oriented understanding of natu-ral language may greatly increase the efficencyof representation models and parsing algorithms,thus allowing the construction of effectivesystems.
This claim is supported by the designand implementation of a natural language inter-face to a relational data base called NLI anddeveloped at the Milan Polytechnic Ar t i f i c ia lIntelligence Project.
In the paper the archi-tecture of the system, the l inguist ic models,and the parsing algorithms are presented andi l lustrated through selected examples.
Promisingdirections for future research are outlined aswell.l.
lntroductionThe development of natural language under-standing systems has received in the last yearsa growing interest, both in the area of compu-tational l inguistics and ar t i f i c ia l  in te l l i -gence.
In this f ield a lot of running systemshave been implemented which are based on diffe-rent l inguistic models and parsing algorithms.This paper is devoted to i l lustrate NLI, anatural language understanding system which hasbeen developed at the Milan Polytechnic Art i -f ic ia l  Intelligence Project for the inquiryin Italian of a relational data base.
NLI is ba-sed on a new approach to natural language under-standing called here goal-oriented comprehension.It  is claimed that the understanding act iv itymay be correctly defined only i f  the purposeor goal of the comprehension is clearly specified,and that the same sentence may have several d i f -ferent meanings depending on the purpose forwhich i t  is considered.
I t  follows that the com-plexity of the natural language understandingtask depends, in addition to the inner l inguisticor structural complexity of the sentence which isconsidered, on the complexity and extent of thescope of the understanding act iv ity,  Therefore,we can argue that, i f  one confines the understan-ding act iv i ty to well defined and bounded goals(as i t  is generally possible in most of the natu-ral language processing applications), i t  shouldbe possible to develop ad hoc l inguistic modelsand parsing algorithms which are particularyf i t t ing  and efficent.
Such models and algorithmswil l  obviously s t r i c t ly  depend on the particulargoal which is considered and wil l  generally nothold for very different scopes.
Let us outlinethat goal-oriented understanding implies a boun-ded scope, incomplete,and in some way diagonalcomprehension, in which any detail and nuancewhich is not relevant to the goal is ignored.In the design of NLI the classical topic ofdata base inquiry has been chosen as applicationdomain and the goal of the understanding processhas been defined as that one of translating theuser's natural language queries into the formalquery language QBE (Query-By-Examplel5).
The ado-pted l igu ist ic  model is strongly semantics basedand doesn't take into account,as much as possible,the syntactic aspects of the sentence to be ana-lysed I.
The l inguistic information needed forthe parsing is stored in a lexicon and a base ofthe heuristics,and the parsing algorithms ares t r i c t ly  dependent on the particular goal whichis considered.NLl has been so far developed intwo versions,NLl-I and NLI-2; the latter one,which is presently in an advanced development--550stage, is the subject of this work.The paper is organized in the following way:in section two the version NLI-I is shortly i l l u -strated and the design specifications and crite-ria for NLI-2 are discussed; section three isdevoted to present the overall architecture ofthe system and the parsing algorithms which havebeen implemented; section four shows some selec-ted examples of comprehension; in section fivesome promising directions for future research arei l lustrated together with some conclusive remarks.2.Previous work and experimental act iv i tyIn this section the f i r s t  prototype versionof the system NLI(NLI-I) is shortly i l lustrated.The functional requirements and the basic techni-cal decisions are then presented, on which a se-cond version of NLI (NLI-2) is presently beingdeveloped.NLI-I has been designed and implemented at theMilan Polytechnic Art i f i c ia l  Intelligence Projectin the years 1977-784,5 with the following aims:- to evaluate through a sample application thenew model of natural language understandingproposed and the designed algorithms for seman-tic-based parsingl;- to study in a particular case the most cr i t icalaspects involved by the developent of actualapplications,such as efficiency, memory occu-pations, creation and management of the dictio-naries, evaluation~of the understanding capabi-l i t i es ,  etc.The inquiry in natural language(Italian) ofa toy relational data base representing the cata-logue of a l ibrary has been chosen as an appli-cation domain for NLI-I.
The architecture of thesystem has been structured in three sequentialmodules.
The f i r s t  module scanns the input sen-tence, searches in the vocabulary each wordwhich has been recognized through a simplifiedlexical analysis, and generates an internal re-presentation of the sentence in which the mea-ning of each word and elementary construct isembedded.
The second module is devoted to reducethe ambiguities and to check the correctness ofthe structure proposed (through an algorithm ba-sed on set intersectionl); i t  produces a semantictree which represents the formal internal repre-sentation of the input sentence.
The third modu-le translates the semantic three into an equiva-lent sentence expressed in a formal query langua-ge for relational data bases (SEQUEL).NLI-I has been implemented in FORTRAN f i r s ton an UNIVAC II00 and, later, on a DigitalPDP-II/34 computer.
I t  requires about 15 Kbytesmemory with a lexicon of 200 words.
The parsingof a simple sentence(a single query of about10-15 words) needs a few seconds and more complexsentences need up to 20-30 seconds.The research act iv i ty done with NLI-I hashighlighted some relevant aspects concerning thedevelopment and actual implementation of NLI,which will be further considered in the designof NLI-2.
We l i s t  some of these below:- the necessity of developing an high-level dia-gnostic subsystem to be used by the applica-tion designer(often,the nd-user himself) inthe tuning act iv i ty;- the need for an interactive system for the in-cremental definition and for the management ofthe vocabulary(to be uti l ized also in the de-sign of a new application versions of NLI);- the necessity of refining the parsing algori-thms and of defining a base of the heuristicsto be uti l ized in the most complex cases ofcomprehension;- the problem of the optimal content of the voca-bulary (increasing the content of the vocabula-ry doesn't always improve the understanding ca-pabil i t ies of the system!
);- the problem concerning the need of insertingin the vocabulary all the words which consti-tute the content of the data base.For greater details about NLI-I the readeris referred to the l i terature 5.The new version NLI-2 has been designed in1979 on the base of the experience acquiredthrough NLI-I.
The main methodological assump-tions, funcitonal specifications,and technicaldecisions on which NLI-2 is based are i l lustratedbelow:- goal-oriented understanding;- semantics directed parsing;- hierarchical organization of the l inguist icinformation supplied to the system in two mo-dules:the lexicon and the base of the heuri-stics;- development of a generalized parsing algorithmindependent of the content of the lexicon andof the base of the heuristics, of the structureof the data base, and of the particular natu-ral language which is used;- developent of an high-level diagnostic module;- design of a fu l ly  interactive system for theincremental definition and dynamic managementof the content of the lexicon and of the baseof the heuristics and for the implementationof new versions of the system;implementation of the appropriate human engi-neering features needed to improving the usa-b i l i ty  of the system.- -551  -The natural language used for the inquiry isI tal ian and the output of the system is the tran-slation of the query in QBE (Query-By-Examplel4).The data base adopted for the development of thesample application of NLI-2 is concerned witha department store description and is just  thesame used for the i l l us t ra t ion  of QBE (a completedef in i t ion of the data base is reported in theAppendix).
In designing NLI-2 i t  has been decidedof not inserting anything about the content ofthe data base in the lexicon of the system,in or-der to keep i ts  dimensions as small as possible.This choice implies that the user indicates expl i -citely(through a pair of special symbols") in theinput sentence the words which denote values ofdomains of the data base.
The adequacy and effec-tiveness of this decision wi l l  be evaluated du-ring the experimental ac t iv i ty  to be done withNLI-2 and could be removed i f  considered unappro-priate.The next section wi l l  be ent i re ly  devoted tothe i l l us t ra t ion  of the global structure of NLI-2and of the parsing algorithms which have beendeveloped.3.System architecture and parsing algorithmsNLI-2 is based on a modular structure in whichthere is a d is t inct  division between the data(vo-cabulary,data base model, formal query languagestructure) and the programs(analyser,generator,vocabulary management).
The system architectureis i l lust rated in Figure I .The monitor is devoted to open the job( i t  in-forms the user about the system capabi l i t ies andpresent to him an appropriate menu of di f ferentoptions), to interprete the user's commands, andto manage the act iv i t ies  of the lower modules.The user's control messages accepted by the moni-tor are:- SHELP : detailed informations and instructionson the operation of the system are supplied;- SU : the understanding cycle of the naturallanguage queries is activated; the system isready to run in U-mode;- SV : the module for the management of the voca-bulary is activated; the system can be used forthe definition,updating,and tuning of the voca-bulary in the V-mode;- $STOP : returns the control to the monitor forU-mode and V-mode operations;- SEND : closes the job.The analyser, which is activated by the moni-tor when running in the U-mode,accepts the natu-ral language query in input and generates an ap-propriate internal representation or, i f  somestep of the parsing fa i l s ,  a diagnostlc messageto be displayed to the user.
The analyser opera-tes in a cyclic way: when the parsing of a sen-MONITORwl IIANALYSERIVOCABULARYMANAGEMENT4 I GENERATORIVOCABULARYJDATA BASEMODELFORMAL QUERY LANGUAGESTRUCTUREFigure 1 - NLI-2 architecture552-tence is concluded i t  is automatically reset andis ready to accept a new query.
Queries are notstored by the parser, so that the user is notallowed to carry on a dialog with the system inwhich new queries can refer to old ones(or totheir  answers).
The module for the vocabularymanagement can be activated by the monitor ord i rect ly  by the analyser when a fa i l  occurs.
I tsupplies the user with some basic functions(someof them mainly relating to text editing) for af lex ib le  management of the vocabulary(search,display,delate,add,update,etc.
).The generatorreceives in input the internal representationproduced by the analyser and translates i t  intothe formal query language QBE.Let us describe now the internal structureof the vocabulary.
I t  is composed of two parts:the lexicon~ which contains the words and theelementary construct referring to the applica.-tion domain in which the system operates,and thebase of the heuristics , which embeds furtherl inguist ic  information(sometimes also of syntac-t ic  nature) necessary to understand complex andoften ambiguous constructs.The lexicon is organized in 26 alphabeticgroups,each one of them contains al l  the wordsbeginning by the same le t ter .
Each word (or e-lementary construct) is bound to al l  i ts  possi-ble meanings,thus yelding a record of the lex i -con.
A record is in fact composed of two parts:- the le f t  part contains a word or a (short)sequence of words representing a simple con-struct;  morphology is (generally)not taken intoaccount in the parsing,but the wordsare repre-sented in such a way to be recognized in al lpossible forms(conjugated verbs,inflected nouns,ect . )
;- the r ight part embeds the representation of thesemantics of the word within the applicationdomain which is considered.The r ight  part of each record has a di f ferentstructure depending on the semantictype to whichthe word stored in the le f t  part belongs.
In ourapplication a word can denote three di f ferenttypes of information concerning:the ident i f icat ion of the relations and ofthe domains involved by the query;the logical connection between relations anddomains;the specif ication of the required output.Therefore, in relation to the three above pre-sented act iv i t ies ,  we define the following se-mantic types: object, connective, and funct ion,respectively.The general structure of an object record is:li I 111 12222 0 N1.LI=N2.M ~.
.
.
.
.
N1.MI=N2.M~where:- P denotes a word or a simple costruct;- 0 denotes that the record is of type object;- each pair N~.M~ denotes that the wo~d P refersto the domain IN~ in the relation M~ (relationsand domains are ~epresented by positive inte -gers); the = symbol separates equal domainsbelonging to di f ferent relations; i f  P refersto a relation without specifying the domain,N~ is replaced by the special symbol $;eachf~eld of the record contains a di f ferent mea-ning of the object P.The structure of a connective record is:where:P denotes a word or a simple costruct;C denotes that the record is of type connecti-ve;- each pair X. : Y. denotes a possible meaning1 .
1 of the connectlve P; namely, X: represents theI pattern in which P may appear(position of P andtype of the adjacent words),Y: denotes(throughI a pointer) the function which must be appliedor the action which must be performed duringthe parsing to take correctly into account themeaning of the connective P.The structure of a function record is:where :- P denotes a word or a simple construct;- F denotes that the record is of type function;- each Z. denotes a possible meaning of the fun-ction ~ and represents (through a pointer) anaction which must be performed in the parsing.The base of the heuristics is constituted bya bag of heuristic rules(of the type precondi-t ion-act ion),  which allow to represent l inguist icinformations which are not comtained in the lex i -con but are s t i l l  needed for understanding com-plex sentences and for the resolution of ambigui-t ies.
The heuristic rules are selected and act i -vated during the parsing,whenever a c r i t i ca l  s i -tuation occures,on the base of a pattern direc-ted invocation algorithm.Let us outl ine that the vocabulary(both i tsstructure and content) is s t rc t ly  dependent on--553--the particular application to which the systemis devoted.
This feature,which represents a quiterigid bound to the f lex ib i l i ty  of the system, is,on the other hand, a straightforward conse-quence of the concept of goal-oriented understan-ding.
The issue of designing system architectureswhich allow a f lexible handling of the purposeand domain of the comprehension is consideredas a promising and ambitious topic for futureresearch,as i t  wil l  be i l lustrated in the con-clusions.Let us i l lustrate now the act iv i ty of the ana-lyser.
It  accept as input a natural language que-ry and supplies an internal formal representationof i t  which is not far from a QBE expression; insuch away the role of the generator is confined,within NLI-2, to a simple editing act iv i ty.
Theact iv i ty of the analyser can be splitted in foursteps:I. scanning of the natural language input senten-ce, search in the lexicon,and generation ofa f i rst - level  internal representation;2. parsing,(partial or fu l l )  resolution of theambiguities, and generation of the second-le-vel internal representation;3. intersection,i.e, verif ication of the consi-stency of the proposed structure and resolu-tion of the possibly remaining ambiguities;4. generation of the correct formal representa-tion or, i f  any fai l  has occured, of the ap-propriate diagnostics.In step I. the input sentence is f i r s t  scannedand an internal representation of i t  is construc-ted( f i rst - level  internal representation).Thesearching of the words in the lexicon is indexedsequencial(with a one-level index); i f  a wordor elementary construct is found in the lexiconi t  is replaced by all the record to which i trefers; on the other hand, i f  a word is not re-cognized, i t  is enclosed between brackets in thef i rst - level  internal representation and i t  issuccessively ignored in the parsing.
The wordswhich denote values of domains,i.e, which appearin the content of the data base, are precededand followed by the special symbol" in the inputsentence and remain unaltered in the internalrepresentation.
The f i rst - level  internal repre-sentation reflects the ordering of the words inthe input sentence and embeds all the l inguist icinformation which can be obtained from the lexi-con.In step 2. the relations involved by theuser's query are f i r s t  recognized through a deta-iled analysis of the words of type object.
Thisact iv i ty cannot yeld, in general, a definite andunambiguous result since some objects may referto different relations.
A pattern directed invo-cation of appropriate heuristics may contributein eliminating some (or also a l l )of  the ambigui-t ies.
After the correct relations are individua-ted, their logical schemata are extracted fromthe data base model and a new phase starts aimingto individuate the domains referred to in the in-put sentence.
The possible ambiguities may be re-solved through an appropriate use of the heuri-stics.
The domains which have a role in theuser's query are then labelled in order to befurther processed in the following steps of theparsing.
The words enclosed between pairs of "symbols are then considered in order to find theappropriateassignement of these values to therelating domains.
Different cr i ter ia may be usedto perform such an assignement(e.g., the conti-guity of a value and an object),but, in any case,the assignement is not a definit ive one until i tis confirmed by an heuristic or by the followingstep 3.
(intersection), A tentative interpretationof the input sentence(second-level internal re-presentation) is then produced,which wil l  befurther refined and completed in the followingsteps of the parsing.The analysis of the connectives constitutesthe kernel of step 3 .
; i t  is organized in twophases:singling out the correct semantics of a connec-tive on the base of i ts position in the senten-ce and of the type of the words to which i trefers(appropriate heuristics have to be u t i l i -zed to resolve possible ambiguities);verif ication of the proposed interpretationof the sentence segment to which the connecti-ve belongs(this act iv i ty is performed throughset intersection algorithms I,  what gives thereason for the name assigned to step 3.
).In step 4. the functions~which possibly ap-pear in the input sentence, are considered andthe domains to which they apply are individuated.I f  the parsing terminates correctly the formalrepresentation of the sentence is generated whichwil l  be later translated in QBE by the generator.In the following section some complete exam-ples of comprehension are i l lustrated.4.Parsing sample sentencesIn this section we are going to present someexamples of parsing extracted from the sampleapplication in which NLI-2 is presently working(the department store data base which is descri-bed in the Appendix).--554--Example I .Input sentence:<TROVA I REPARTI CHE VENDONO PRODOTTI FORNITIDA "PARKER"> ( I)The f i r s t - leve l  internal representation,afterstep I .
of the parsing is concluded,results:<TROVA/F/PV/ ( I )  REPARTI/O/I.4=I.2 (CHE) VENDONO/C/XISX2,XI=O,X2=V:PA2.2/YISY2,YI=O,Y2=O:PR2PRODOTTI/O/2.2=I.3=I.4 FORNITI DA /C/XISX2,XI=O,x2=V:PA2.3/YlgY2,YI=O,Y2=C:PR3 " ARKER">In step 2. the relations involved by the user'srequest are f i r s t  recognized,<VENDITE (REPARTO,ARTICOLO) >< FORNITORI (ARTICOLO,FORNITORE)>and, then, the domains referred to in  the inputsentence are labelled through the letters A andB:< VENDITE (REPARTO:A,ARTICOLO:B)>< FORNITORI (ARTICOLO:B,FORNITORE)>The second-level internal representation (propo-sing a tentative assignement of values to thelabelled domains) results:< VENDITE (REPARTO:A,ARTICOLO:"PARKER") >< FORNITORI (ARTICOLO:"PARKER",FORNITORE)>After step 3. we get:< VENDITE (REPARTO:A,ARTICOLO:B) >< FORNITORI (ARTICOLO:B FORNITORE:"PARKER") >and, after step 4., the correct formal represen-tation in QBE results:VENDITE (REPARTO: P, ARTICOLO:B)FORNITORI (ARTICOLO:B, FORNITORE: "PARKER")PV is a pointer to a routine which puts the spe-cial symbol P in the domain which follows thefunction TR~A.
PA is a pointer to a routinewhich assigns X; to domain 2 of relat ion 2 (inthe case VENDONO),or to domain 2 of the relat ion3 (in the case FORNITI DA); PA is activated i fthe connective to which i t  is bound connects anobject (0) to a part icular value of a domain(V),as i t  arrives in both cases VENDONO and FORNITIDA.
The second meaning of these two connectives,( I )  find the departments which sell products sup-plied by Parkerrepresented by the pointer PR, is not consideredin this parsing.Example 2.Input sentence:<VOGLIO I NOMI DEGLI IMPIEGATI CHE GUADAGNANOPIU' DEL LORO DIRIGENT\[> (2)F i rst - level  internal representation:<VOGLIO/F/PV ( I)  NOMI DEGLI IMPIEGATI/O/I.I(CHE) GUADAGNANO/O/2.1 PIU' DEL/F/PM (LORO)DIRIGENTE/O/3.1>Second-level internal representation:< IMPIEGATI (NOME:A, SALARIO:B, DIRIGENTE:C,REPARTO) >After step 3. we get:< IMPIEGATI (NOME:A, SALARIO:B, DIRIGENTE:C,REPARTO) >In step 4., after the analysis of the functions,we have:< IMPIEGATI (NOME:P, SALARIO:B, DIRIGENTE:C,REPARTO)>In this representation there are two domains(SA-LARIO and DIRIGENTE) whose role is not yet under-stood; this pattern act ivatesapart icu lar  heuri-stics which allows two obtain the following cor-rect formal representation:IMPIEGATI (NOME:P, SALARIO> B, DIRIGENTE:C,REPARTO)IMPIEGATI (NOME:C, SALARIO:B DIRIGENTE,REPARTO)Example 3.Input sentence:< VORREI I NOMI DELGI IMPIEGATI CHE LAVORANONELLA DIVISIONE "CANCELLERIA" > (3)F i rst - level  internal representation:< VORREI/F/PV ( I )  NOMI DEGLI IMPIEGATI/O/I.I(2) I want to know the names of the employees,who earn more than their  managers(3) I would l ike to know the names of the emplo-yees,who work in the writ ing-materials department--555(CHE) (LAVORANO) (NELLA) (DIVISIONE)"CANCELLERIA">Second-level internal representation:< IMPIEGATI (NOME:"CANCELLERIA", SALARIO,DIRIGENTE, REPARTO) >After step 3. we get:<IMPIEGATI (NOME: "CANCELLERIA", SALARIO,DIRIGENTE, REPARTO) >Step 4. fa i l s  since the assignement of the spe-cial symbol P to the domain NOME, which is requi-red by the function VORREI (pointer PV), can notbe executed, being the value "CANCELLERIA" alrea-dy present in the domain NOME.
The followingdiagnostic message is therefore generated:>ana l i s i  fa l l i ta  nella fase 4>impossibl i t~ di effettuare un corretto assegna->mento del valore "CANCELLERIA" ad un opportunodominio>termini  ignorati ne l l ' ana l i s i :I ,  CHE, LAVORANO, NELLA, DIVISIONE>rappresentazioni interne generate: (4)(vedi sopra)Let us note that , i f  we insert in the lexicon thenew record DIVISIONE/O/I.4=I.2, i t  is possibleto obtain the following correct parsing:IMPIEGATI (NOME:P, SALARIO,DIRIGENTE, REPARTO:"CANCELLERIA")Example 4.Input sentence:<DAMMI I NOMI DEI FORNITORI DI "OROLOGI">(5)(4) parsing fai led in step 4the value"CANCELLERIA" can not be correctlyassigned to an appropriate domainwords ignored in the parsing:I ,  CHE, LAVORANO, NELLA, DIVlSIONEinternal representations generated:(see above)(5) find the names of the supplyers of watchesF i rst - level  internal representation:<DAMMI/F/PV ( I )  (NOMI) (DEI) FORNITORI/O/2.3(DI) "OROLOGI">Second-level internal representation:<FORNITORI (ARTICOLO, FORNITORE:"OROLOGI")>After step 3.we get:<FORNITORI (ARTICOLO, FORNITORE:"OROLOGI")>Step 4. fa i l s  because of the same reasons asin Example 3.
In this case, however,the systemcan correctly parse the input sentence only byinserting in the lexicon the word OROLOGI which,on the other hand,is part of the content of thedata base.5.ConclusionsIn the paper the NLI system has been i l lus t rated ,with part icular  attention to the NLI-2 version.I t  is devoted to the inquiry in natural language( I ta l ian)  of a relat ional data base.
NLI is basedon a modular architecture which allows the desi-gner , or even the user, to define his own ap-pl icat ion in a fu l l y  inte.ractive and incrementalway.
The l ingu is t i c  model supported by the systemis that one of goal-oriented understanding,andthe parsing algorithms adopted are mainly seman-t ics directed.The implementation of NLI-2 is now being com-pleted and the system wi l l  be used in the futurefor developing the following research act i -v i t ies :def in i t ion of performance evaluation c r i te r iafor measuring the understanding capabi l i t iesof natural language systems;evaluation of the complexity of the parsingalgorithms in relat ion to the complexity of theinput  sentence and of the scope of the compre-hension;investigation on the f lex ib i l i ty  of the systemin relat ion to small variations in the structu-re and content of the data base and in the ado-pted natural language;def in i t ion of new system architectures allowinga fu l l  f l ex ib i l i ty  in relat ion to the purposeof the understanding and to the applicationdoamin.AppendixThis Appendix is devoted to present the samplerelat ional data base which has been adopted inthe development of NLI-2.
This is concerned withthe act iv i ty  of a department store and i t  is justthe same ut i l i zed in the def in i t ion of QBE 15.
The--556--data base is sketched below through a set of ta-bles in which both the names of relat ions anddomains and their  internal representation(pairsof integers) is given.I.S IMPIEGATO ( I .
I  NOME, 1.2 SALARIO,1.3 DIRIGENTE, 1.4 REPARTO)2.$ VENDITE (2.1 REPARTO, 2.2 ARTICOLO)3.3 FORNITORI (3.1ARTICOLO, 3.2 FORNITORE)4.3 TIPO (4.1ARTICOLO, 4.2 COLORE, 4.3 TAGLIA)AcknowledgmentsI am indebt to E. Cuccurullo for the implemen-tation of NLI-2 and for stimulating discussions.ReferencesI .
Burger J.F, Leal A., Shoshani A. Semantic-ba-sed parsing and a natural language interfacefor interact ive data managelent.
Proc.
13th'Conf.
of the ACL, Boston, 19752.
Codd E.F. A relational model of data for lar-ge shared data banks.
Comm.ACM 13,6 (1970),377-387.3.
Codd E.F.
Seven steps to rendezvous with thecasual user.
IBM Research Report RJ1333, SanJos6,Cal.
,1974.4.
Guida G. Ideas about design of natural langua-ge interfaces to query systems.
Proc.
of aWorkshop on Natural Lang.uage for Interactionwith Data Bases, IIASA CP-78-9, Laxemburg,Austria, 1978, 265-279.5.
Guida G. Natural language interfaces to com-puter system: An experimental project.
AltaFrequenza XLVII, 9 (1978), 668-674.6.
Guida G., Somalvico M. A two level modularsystem for natural language data base queryapplications.
Proc.
6th Int .
Joint Conf onAr t i f i c ia l  Intelligence0 Tokio,Japan, 1979,345-347.7.
Harris L.R.
Experience with ROBOT in 12 com-mercial natural language data base query ap-pl icat ions.
Proc.6th Int.
Joint Conf.
on Ar-t i f i c ia l  Intel l igence, Tokio,Japan, 1979,365-368.8.
Hendrix G.G., Sacerdoti E.D., Sagalowicz D.,Slocum J.
Developing a natural language inter -face to complex data.
ACM Trans.
on Data BaseSystems 3,2 (1978), I05-147.9.
Kaplan S.J., Mays E., Joshi A.K.
A techniquefor managing the lexicon in a natural langua-ge interface to a changing data base.
Proc.6th Int .
Jo int  Conf.
on Ar t i f i c ia l  Inte l l igen-c_e_e,Tokio,Japan, 1979, 463-465.I0.
Lehmann H.The USL project.
Its objectivesand status.
Proc.lnt, Technical Conf.
on Re-la t iona l  Data Base Systems, IBM Scient i f icCenter,Bari, I ta ly ,  1976, 7-38.I I .
Mylopoulos J .
,  Borgida A., Cohen ~Roussopo-ulos H., Tsotsos J .
,  Wong H. TORUS : A steptowards bridging the gap between data basesand the casual user.
Information Systems 2(1976), 49-64.12.
Schank R.C., DeOong G. Purposive understan-ding.
Machine Intel l igence 9, J.E.
Hayes,D.Michie, L. l .Mikul ich (Eds.
), E l l i s  Horwood,Chichester, 1979, 459-478.13.
Waltz D.L.
Natural language access to a largedata base: an engineering approach.
Proc.4th Int.
Joint Conf.
on Ar t i f i c ia l  In te l l i -gence:Tbi l is i ,  USSR, 1975, 868-872.14.
Waltz.
D.L., Goodman B.A.
Writing a naturallanguage data base system.
Proc.
5th Int,Joint on Ar t i f iC ia l  Intel l igence, Cambridge,Mass., 1977, 144-150.15.
Zloof M.M.
Query by example.
Proc.
Nat.
Com-puter Conf., AFIPS Press, Vol.
44, 1975,431-438.--557
