AN ANALYS1S OF THE STANDARD ENGLISH KEYBOARDYuzuru Hiraga, Yoshihiko Ono, Yamada-HisaoDept.
of Information ScienceFaculty of Science, University of Tokyo7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-kuTokyo 113, JapanSummaryA study of the nature of hand and finger motions in typingprocess was made, based on the data on time intervals betweenkey strokes.
Many of the results obtained confirm thoseformerly obtained by Dvorak and other researchers.
In addition,it was \[bund that each key sequence is affected by its context,thus proving that the mental aspects of typing directly affects itsproductivity, and that the performance analysis on a particularkeyboard arrangement is not sufficient to predict theperformance on other arrangements.Based on these results, the current English keyboard is judgedto be a less than ideal tool for typing.However, when carefully examined, even a rudimentarymeasurement of certain factors of typing behavior would lead toa good understanding of some pertinent aspects of the typingprocess.We faced the problem of keyboard optimization in theprocess of developing a Japanese-input keyboard.
Our approachhere is based on the measurement of the time interval of keystrokes, obtained from the typing performance of English textby a proficient ypist, In this paper, we first present he findingsbased on these data, discuss an important human factorsproblem involved in them, then attempt to present anevaluation of the QWERTY keyboard in this perspective..1.
Introduction !\]'he task of studying typewriting behavior and evaluatingkeyboard efficiency has been taken up by many researchers inthe past.
most of these had the motivation to search for anoptimally arranged keyboard, and have pointed out variousdefects of the current English keyboard.
(called Universal, orQWERTYkeyboard, by the arrangement.
)The QWERTY keyboard came into existence (both shapeand arrangement, leaving out a few minor changes) togetherwith the invention of the keyboard typewriter itself (Sholes:1873).
Since the emerging of touch typing techniques aroundthe turn of the century, it has held its established position in theWestern society until today.
But as soon as the QWERTYkeyboard became socially prevalent, questions were raisedagainst its efficiency.
The ineffectiveness of QWERTY is aninevitable consequence of its origin.
Since the most urgentproblem that Shores faced was to avoid the jamming of the thenmechanically deficient typebars against each other, after tryingout various arrangements, he came out, not intentionally, withan arrangement difficult to type fast on.Well considered objections against QWERTY were voiced atleast as early as 1893(Hammond).
Since then, many studies anda number of suggestions for improved arrangements were made ASome of the ~ggestions made ~were those by HokTe(1921),"Griffith(1949), J Nicketls(1973),~ and M021t~1977).'
Amongthem, the work done by Dvorak et.al.
(1936) ,u is considered bymany to be the most important of all, because of the deeppsychological insight presented, and the keyboard theyproposed, known as the Dvorak Simplified Keyboard (DSK).Today, DSK is thought to be of a near optimal arrangement.Many reports countering to these improvement suggestions infavor of the firmly established QW~RTY keyboard alsoappeared.
The report of Strong(1956), supported by GSA,gave in a way a decisive blow to the DSK, and QWERTY is stillholding its firm position.Typing is a highly complicated procedure deeply involvingmental activities as well as physical movements.
To cover it inits entirety would call for an immense task of human factorsresearch, a large part of which is not yet well understood.2.
Basic NotionsThrough our experiment, we intended to obtain someunderstanding of the relation between key sequences and theresulting motion of hands.
In other words, we wanted to knowwhat kind of key sequences result in a good typing motion, asagainst others.
Since typing (especially touch typing) is aprocess of consecutive reflexive motion of two hands, it wouldnot be sufficient o study this through the motion of hitting anindividual key.
The ability to tap a same key fast does notdirectly mean that the person is a good typist.
The essence oftyping skill is in the ability of maintaining minimum hand andfinger transitions through the keying sequence, in order toproduce good motions.
Typing speed seems to be a goodmeasure for this, and is also appealing to our intuition.Alternate measures include the fatigue of the typist, and typingerror rate.
The latter will be discussed in section 6.We mainly utilized our data on time intervals between keystrokes in order to get at some aspect of hand motion.
Theelementary component hat constitutes a key sequence is a keypair, that is, consecutive two strokes on the keyboard.
Our firstobjective is to list the key pairs in the order of typing ease.
Afirst order approximation for this ordering might be to put thekey pairs in the order of typing speed.
But our attempt in thisdirection immediately turned out to be futile.
The time valuesthemselves were not easily determinable from the measurement.In addition, the direct ordering gave no insight into the natureof hand dexterity.
Sometimes it even appeared to contradict ourintuitive notions of dexterity.So we turned to a two-step approach instead.
We firstattempted to factorize the time data, and next tested certainconjectures on typing motions based on them.Each of the, interval times of keying must be a function atleast of the choice of two keys forming the key pair, as well asof other factors.
Thus, the time.
value t for a certain key pair(kl,k2), where suffixes 1 and 2 stand for the first and secondkeys respectively, may be described as:t=  F(k 1, k 2) 4- e (2.1)--242--e representing those factors that cannot be described in terms ofthe key pair, including probabilistic fluctuations.
Keys may besubdivided according to their row, hand, and finger of operation.Thus, (2.1) may be rewritten as:t = F(hl,h2,rl ,r2,f l , f  2) + e (2.2)where h, r, and f stand for hand, row, and finger, respectively.These attributes of keys may interact with each other.
In anexact analysis, it is not correct to handle even the fingercomponent of both hands together, since the keyboard is notleft-right symmetric in shape.
But we shall ignore this fact forthe present analysis.A certain key may be referred to by the alphabet it standsfor on QWERTY, or by its associated finger, row, and hand.Dictated by the design phylosophy of our system, we are mainlyinterested in the middle 10 keys of the upper, home, andbottom rows.
The set of these 30 keys will be called the mainset: Following Dvorak, some characteristic key pair patterns arenamed as follows.
2HurdlingStrokes by the same hand, fingers jumping over anumber of rows.ReachingThe stroking of different keys with the same finger.Tapping.The stroking of the same key.Rocking:Strokes on the same hand, rolling in from the outerside of the keyboard inward.Adjacent:Stroking by adjacent fingers of the same hand.Remote:Stroking by remote fingers of the same hand.A Iternate~Stroking by dill?rent hands.The data we use here were taken from a timing experimenton the Superwriter system implemented on the H-10 computer atthe University of Tokyo.
The typing was clone by a professionalEnglish typist (Japanese, female).
Time intervals of key strokeswere measured own to milli-seconds.
Input texts were selectedfrom the last part of "Alice in Wonderland" and the entire"Through the Looking-glass," excluding the verses ("TheAnnotated Alice", L. Carroll, ann.
by M. Gardner), and"Information Processing" (M. Bohl), a textbook of computers.The whole data consists of 302,392 strokes, 142,262 for Aliceand 160,130 for the computer text.Being taken from the field of literature which is unfamiliarto the typist, the Alice text presented to her difficulties in:1) The presence of special characters.
The text is full ofconversations, thus a good number of quotation marks areused.
Also, exclamation marks, question marks appearsfrequently.2) Use of unusual words and phrases (a characteristic ofCarroll).On the other hand, the computer ,text makes a frequent use oftechnical terms.
The use of uncommon words results in a highrate of typing errors as we shall see in section 6.
However, wecould not conclude that these singularities would indeed affectthe overall typing behavior differently, so both data will betreated combined.Most of the time interval values clustered in the regionbetween 100 and 300 ms.
The data with extraordinarily largevalues were eliminated, using a threshold of 500 ms., becausethey must have resulted from'some reasons other than thetyping itself, such as the page turning of the text, etc.Of the 900 (= 30 x 30) possible key pairs in the main set,805 had actual data entries.
Of them, the less frequently usedkey pairs showed seemingly random time-frequencydistributions.
Here we encounter our first problem, since thekey pairs we regard of highest importance, namely, alternatehand stroking on the home row, had very few entries.
As canbe seen on the keyboard, these are key pairs that would seldomappear in a normal English text.
Only one vowel, "a", is on thisrOW.General Features1) Entries faster than 500ms.Entries: 294,272 Mean: 162.8 S.D.
: 74.92) Among l), key pairs using only the lower case.Entries: 180,051 Mean: 154.3 S.D,: 64.53) Among 2), key pairs using only the main set.Entries: 179,137 Mean: 153.8 S.D.
: 64.03.
Distribution of Individual Key PairsDistribution graphs of various types of key pairs are givenin Figures (3-I) through (3-6).
Figure (3-I) is an example ofan alternate key pair, (3-2) of an adjacent, (3-3) of a remote,(3-4) of a tapping, (3-5) of a reach, and (3-6) of a hurdle.
Briefgeneral observations of all of the key pair distributions are:1) Most mean values range from 100 to 200 ms.2) There is a lower bound for time intervals.
(or, saying thesame thing from the other side, an upper bound of typingspeed of a key pairl) This bound falls somewhere between60 and 80 ms.
Thus, we think that 60 ms. is the lowerbound for keying intervals.
(1,000 strokes/ minute)The distribution of the bound is different of that of themean values, and the range is narrower.
In fact, it isgenerally smaller for adjacent key pairs, though the meanvalue of their time is comparatively larger, Reaches andTaps, that is, key pairs that use the same finger, areexceptions to this.
For example, key pair "d-e", a reachkey pair, has a lower bound greater than lOOms.3) The peak of the graph is skewed to the left, with a longtail.
That is, the median is seen to be always smaller thanthe mean, and the skewness factor (=normalized thirdorder moment around the mean) is positive.4) Skewness decreases for key pairs with larger mean timevalues.
It is also smaller for key pairs with less frequencyin general.5) The peak is quite pointed.We have seen that there is a physical upper bound for typingspeed of key pairs, which is nearly the same for different kindsof key pairs (except for those using the same finger).
This maybe thought of as the physical imit of response time intervals offingers to the brain signals that call for separate strokes.
Moststrokes of a certain key pair gather around a time value close tothe lower (time) bound.
This means that there is constantrhythm in typing each key pair, or as we will see later, it may bebetter to say that nearly constant rhythm is kept within a certainspan or conlexz, which is likely to be a word.
In addition tothese basic properties of stroking patterns, tttiere are many otherfactors which contribute to the.
whole pattern of distribution.These fact0rsmay work in an unpredictable way, and are likelyto have greater effects on the key pairs that are not located infamiliar contexts.The effect of the frequency of usage is not so explicitlymanifested in the distribution of individual key pairs.
However,there exists a correlation between the mean time values andfrequencies, which we shall see in the tbtlowing section.--243--t = 60.5exp(-0.004t4freq) + 156.4which gives the statistical ower bound of 156 ms. However,with a frequency threshold of 50, a linear least squares fitting isno worse than 10% than this exponential fit in terms of theresidue of squares, so for further analysis on frequencies, weshall use linear regressions.We further assume F in equation (4.1) to have linearproperty.
The parameters for F are defined on the attributes ofof the key pair as follows:h: hand transition.0: same hand 1: alternate handr: row transition,Number of rows moved across in the same hand transition,set to 0.for alternate hand motions.f: finger transition.The distance of finger columns in the same hand, set to 0for alternate hand motions.R: row weight.Linear sum of weights for each row position, where theweights given are i, 2, and 3for  home, upper, and bottomrow, respectively.F: finger weight.Linear sum of weights on each of the finger positions of thekey pair, where the weights given are 4.5, 4.5, 1, 2, and 3from the outer column inwards.Thus, (4,1) becomes:t=  a+b0freq+ bl h+b2r +b3f+b4R+b5F+e (4.2)By multi-variate linear regression, the parameters are estimatedto have values as follows:a = 185.8b0= -0.013b 1 = -40.0b2= 18.3b 3 = - 11,0b4= 0.514b5= 1.07These results are in agreement with our general understandings,that1) Alternate hand stroking is faster than same hand stroking,and hand transition is the dominant factor.
The differenceis as large as 40 ms,2) In same hand stroking, row transition causes a slowdown ofaround 20ms.
(Row transitions and finger transitions inalternate hand stroking bear little meaning, and have beenomitted from the analysis.
)3) Finger transitions do not present a clear cut picture.
Ingeneral, adjacent finger stroking is inferior to remote fingerstroking in speed.4) Row weights and finger weights do not make noticabiecontributions, but the orderings we chose seem reasonable.Further examinations were made by testing the significance ofthe difference of mean values between two types of key pairs.The results proved our conjectures on finger strength, thesuperiority of alternate strokes, the undesirability of awkwardsequences, etc., with a reliability level2of over 99%.
They are inagreement with the results of Dvorak.So far the analysis has been on key pairs in isolation.
Thatis, we have been ignoring interactions between key pairs.
But itturns out that these factors, namely the e factor in (4.1), cannotbe ignored, in fact they play an important role in understandingthe typing process, as we see next.5.
The "Levelling" EffectIn the preceding sections, we have stated that a typist doesnot read text by individual key pairs or characters, but by words.This means that she is creating a queue of elementary motionssomewhere in her mind (not as a conscious activity), and theactual finger motions are generated as an aggregate of thecomponents in this queue.
From this we infer that a certainoptimization of the motions of hands and fingers takes place inthis process.The analysis in the preceding section was concerned withisolated key pairs and ignored interactions among them.Because of this simplification, the multi-variate model enabledus to explain only half of the residue of the time-frequencyregression analysis.
The, rest must be a result caused by externaleffects, which is represented by the e factor in (4.2).
So, weproceed to examine the effect of the context keying pairs to thetime values of a key pair.We mean by context he key pairs immediately preceding orsucceeding the key pair under attention.
A simple tallyingshowed that in convex situations (that is, a situation that thepreceding and succeeding time values are both smaller than thepresent ime value), and in concave situations (the opposite ofthe convex), the time value tends to be pulled towards thedirection to relax the curvature, with respect o the mean timevalue of the present key pair.
The effect is most significant withalternate hand stroking, where 87% of the time values in aconvex situation are pulled downwards, and 59% in a concavesituation are pushed upwards.
This means that the context ismore effective to increase the overall speed rather than to slowit down, though this is the opposite to our initial expectation.At any rate, our hunch that the time interval of consecutive keypairs are smoothed, or levelled, seems correct.A more detailed analysis confirmed the qualitative claimmade above.
Naming the preceding, present, and succeedingtime values tl, tg, and t 3, respectively, the correlation ofT 1 = (t2-0/ff-T 2 = ((t I +t3)/2-t)/swas calculated, where t is the mean, and s is the standarddeviation of the present key pair.
T 1 has a (0,1) distribution.The distribution of T 2 is unknown, although it is in a sensenormalized with respect to T 1.
Counting all the cases, thecorrelation coefficient of T 1 and T is 0 4325 while for convex2 ' 'situations this is 0.6701 and concave 0.5910.
The concave oneimproves to 0.6282 for alternate stroking, while convex-alternateis 0.6479 in this case.
These values of coefficients uggest astrong positive correlation between T l and T2, especially for theconvex and the concave, or popped out cases.
The result thatalternate hand stroking is more affected by the context meansthat the time intervals of these key pairs have a flexible nature.The existence of this flexibility is quite obvious, since ~,-acticallyno factor restrains these key pairs, and the two strokes are quiteindependent of each other.We may view the outcome here from the point of typingrhythm.
All indications we have are in support of a view thatsuch a levelling process is inherent in good typing behavior.
Inother words, there is a clear tendency to work towards aconstant rhythm.
It is hard to evaluiate this effect quantitively,but we believe this plays an important role in the whole typingprocess.--245--Since this levelling must result from some mentalscheduling procedure, it is likely that the more skilled a typistbecomes, the more she will work towards rhythmical typing.This would mask the inherent weakness of the keyboard, assugar coating covers up the bitterness of tablets.
Therefore, theresults of a superficial analysis of the performance on theresults of a given keyboard is not directly usable to predict theexpected performance on an entirely new keyboard.6.
T.vpin~ Errors.Errors occur quite frequently in typing, as was the case withour experiment.
Here, we will attempt an analysis of the natureof common errors.
The error statistics we obtained are given intables (6-1) and (6-2).Typing is a complex process involving many levels ofhuman intellect and motion, and errors may occur in any one ofthese levels in various forms.
For example, if the typist learns aword in a misspelled form, she will make constant errors withthis word without even noticing them.
But these errors, whichresult from visual or intellectual reasons, are not the kind weare interested in here.
We shall investigate those that occur inconjunction with the mechanical motions of hands.
Theseerrors may occur either because the motion itself is inherentlyprone to errors, or because the typist has a particular deficiencyfor that motion.
An example for the latter case is seen in oursubject who has troubles with the word "little", typing it as"litle", "liitle", "littl", "litl", et cetra.Generally, the pattern of errors depends on individualtypists (much more than the distribution of typing speed does)and since we had only one subject in the experiment, thefindings given below must not be thought of as a general result,though it should reveal at least a part of the truth.
Anadditional imitation is that the subject was not accustomed tothe keyboard used in the experiment.
The effects of suchfactors as the reactive force of the keys against fingers, or thearrangement of special characters, may not be ignored.Table (6-1): Errors in the Main Set.Total 897 instances (602 distinct)Omission 65.2%Insertion 4.7%Replacement 2.8%Interchange 2.2%Chatter 22.5%(Overlapped)Other errors 17.6%Table (6-2): Distribution of OmissionErrors.
(The middle key of the sequenceis skipped.
)Text sequenceL-R-L 7.4% IR-L'-R 2.6% .
.
.
.
10.0%L-L-R 4.3%.R~-L  4.8%J... 9.1%L-R-R lO .5Z .R-L---L 30.2% j''" 40.7%L-L-L 6.9%.R-R-R 2.9%J... 9.8%Here, we will not look into errors with shift keys, althoughshift key errors form a category of their own.
They are likely tooccur in an interrupted state of mind, that is, when the mind isconscious of the typing behavior.
The mistouching of either theshift or the character key that occur here is of a different qualityfrom other simple mistouching, and these errors are not a goodexample of a deficiency in continuous reflexive motion.
Onetypical example is that the typist went on typing a few lineswithout noticing that the shift key was locked.The types of errors that occur within the main set are fairlylimited.
They are categorized as follows.1) Omission: Errors that skip characters of the text.
This isthe most common type of error that is made by a welltrained typist, since her touch, is lighter than that of theless trained.
They will be occasionally too light to go overthe threshold of the key.
These errors are found morefrequently in faster sequences.2) Insertion: Error that inserts extra characters that are not inthe text.3) Replacement: Error that hits an irrelevant key in place of aproper one.
The most likely key to be mishit is the keyadjacent o the proper one.4) Interchanging: Error that hits a key pair in the reverseorder .
This appears to be a result of the peculiarity ofindividual typists.5) Chattering: Error that a certain key is doubly typed.
Thiserror is characteristic of some electric typewriters.
It oftenoccurs together with the omission of the next character,which indicates that it occurs when the second key is hitwhile the first is still being depressed.
The chattering itselfmay be due to too sensitively made keys, or to thetrembling of fingers, or both.The occurrences of errors are not evenly distributed, butare clustered.
This implies that errors are in part due to somemental and physical state of the typist, especially the fatigue.
Atthe same time, we see that a same error is repeatedly made,which means that the errors are not entirely due to carelessness,or statistical freaks.
Errors are made more frequently by the lefthand, although it may not be correct to infer this to be anindication of the inferiority of the left hand, since the totalnumber of strokes typed by the left is also greater.In the data, we see that more than 60% of the errors areomission, errors.
Furtiler inspection shows that about 40% ofthe letter skipping takes place where the text goes eitherL-R-R-, or R-L-L-, where the s~cond stroke in the sequence isthe skipped key.
From The previously obtained results, weknow that alternate hand pairs can be stroked faster than samehand pairs, so we may infer that, because of the levelling effect,the typist would unconsciously try to speed up the same handpair and such psychological stress would result in the skipping ofthe first key of the pair.
Errors are made also where thesequence turns from an alternate hand mode into a same handmode, which should accompany a similar psychological stress.The results obtained here are consistent with the observations inthe preceding sections.Errors tend to occur more frequently with words which areless familiar to the typist.
A typical example is seen in the word"magnet" and their derivatives.
The keying sequence of thisword itself does not contain highly awkward sequences.Nevertheless, there are a large number of errors associated withthem, so words which are unfamiliar to the typist must be moreprone to errors.
This aspect cannot be inferred from ourdiscussion concerning the abstract natures of motions, so that itshould be explained through a depth analysis of the particularmotions associated with the word, in terms of psychological- -246- -hesitation, analogy to familiar and similar words, lack of patternpractice for the entire word, etc.7.
Further DiscussionsBriefly summarizing the observed results, we find that mostof the conjectures stated about the dexterity of hand and fingermotion is true for individual key pairs.
However, the effect ofthese factors are not as pronounced as we first anticipated in thedata, and taken as a whole, the data seemed to be quitedispersed.
We attribute this to the effect of the context keypairs that work on them, and surmise that to think of a keyingsequence merely as a juxtaposition of individual key pairs wouldnot be sufficient, even at the physical evel.At the mental level, it is well known that typing is not acollection of individual letter typing but a typing of a longerpattern as a unit.
A typist takes commonly used syllables (e.g.
"-tion", "-ing", "-tive", etc.
), words, or even phrases as a unit ofrecognition, not individual key pairs or characters.
In therecognition, the text is segmented according to whether or notthe typist has the knowledge of a particular chunk.
This shouldbe very closely related to the reading process in general.
Intyping, the term "knowledge" does not mean only that the typistunderstands the particular word, but also that she has acanalization, or a chunking ability, in her mind that translatesthe word into a sequence of keying motions.
If the typist doesnot "know" the word, then it must be interpreted by syllables ormaybe characters.
Better defined canalization exists forfrequently used words, hence for frequently used key pairs.What we find in the results of our experiment is that thiscanalization exists not only in the mental aspect of typing, butalso in actual physical motions of hands and fingers in typing.As a result, if a keying sequence contains a larger proportion ofkey pairs which are harder to execute, then even easier key pairsare slowed down in spite of the potential speed-up due tolearning, and the overall typing speed settles down at a valuewhich is below the attainable level as an aggregate of individualkey pair performances.
This is perhaps the main reason for thediscrepancy between the actual reported performance figures onDvorak keyboard, and the figures predicted for it by variousauthors based on the performance on QWERTY keyboard.8.
An Evaluation of the QWERTY KeyboardWhat we have been observing in the preceding sections maybe directly related to the evaluation of the effectiveness of theQWERTY keyboard.Through the tallying of the text, we have the distribution ofkeystrokes on QWERTY as in table (8-l).
The figures tell usthat the left hand is overloaded, there are too many strokestyped on the upper row, the fingers are loaded poorly in relationto their dexterity, etc., all of which show the weakness of theQWERTY keyboard.
Furthermore, the rate of awkwardsequences is strikingly high; Of all the key pairs in the text,9.6% are hurdles and 8.2% are reaches.These results in themselves indicate the deficiency of theQWERTY keyboard, but these are not the crucial points.
Fromthe measurements made by others in the past, we have beentold that for all these deficiencies, the QWERTY keyboard is noworse than by 20% in typing speed than by DSK.
Somereported that the diIti~rence between DSK and QWERTYTable (8-1): Stroke Distributions.Hand Distribution (Shift key not counted.Left 48.0%Right 35.9%Space bar 16.1%Row Distribution (Space bar excluded.
)Top 0.1%Upper 51.5%Home 31.8%Bottom 17.6%Finger Distribution (per hand)Left RightIndex 37.2% 45.3%Middle 34.8% 21.4%Ring 14.0% 27.6%Little 14.1% 5.7%predicted through the analysis of QWERTY data is within ?nly afew percents.
Why can the diffel:ence be estimated so small?We think that this is due to the levelling effect, in which anexpert executes hand.
motions through optimal paths.Supposedly slower stroking sequences will be pulled to be faster(and possibly become more prone to errors), and yet the faster, ones might be made slower.
The difficulty that is inherent inthe keying sequence of the text on QWERTY, with all theawkward sequences and incessant wasted motions, istransformed into the tension of the hands of the typist in orderto compensate for it, in an effect to type as rhythmically aspossible.
In this way, the resulting speed may not be aft~cted asmuch as should be expected from the difficulty of individualstrokes.
Thus, when used to predict performance on DSK, suchdata will not give us a good estimate.
The existence ofunpreferred keying sequences affects the local performance ofkeying.
In addition, continuous such effort on QWERTYcertainly causes the fatigue of the typist, and it might evenbecome hazardous to her health.Based on these observations, we must reject the popularlystated notion that the QWERTY keyboard is a fully satifactoryarrangement \[br English texts for most purposes.9, Concluding RemarksMany of the results we obtained confirm formerly statedclaims on a basis of experimental results.
The experimentalproofs for the fact that the context of the text directly affects theproduction of the typing should be of value, for two reasons.One is that it shows that typing is a highly mental process, aswell as a physical one of moving hands and fingers.
Two, andwhat we wish to emphasize, is that this effect works in thedirection of relaxing the tension that might occur in the typingprocess, so if we look at the typing behavior superficially, wemight arrive at wrong conclusions about hand dexterity and theeffectiveness of keyboards~ oReports which support the efficacyof the QWERTY keyboard v'" appear to be making this error.- -247--Acknowledgement: We would like to thank Dr. S. Kawai forhelpful suggestions and discussions on our work, and would alsolike to express our gratitude to Mr. M. Mogaki and Mr. J. Janfor helpful comments.\[11\[2\]\[31\[4\]ReferendesYamada, Hisao; "A Historical Study of Typewriters andTyping Methods: from the Position of Planning JapaneseParallels" (February 1980) Journal of IntbrmationProcessing, Vol.
2, No.
4, pp.175-202.Dvorak, August; Merrick, Nellie L.; Dealy, William L. &Ford, Gertrude C.; "Typing Behavior, Psychology Appliedto Teaching and Learning Typewriting" (1936) AmericanBook Co., New York 521pp.Dvorak, August & Dealy, William L.; "TypewriterKeyboard" (May 1936) U.S. Patent 2,040,248, 8pp.Hoke, Roy Edward; "The Improvement of Speed andAccuracy in Typing" (1921) Ph.D. Dissertation, JohnsHopkins University, Baltimore, 50pp.\[5\] Griffith Roy T.; "The Minimotion Keyboard" (November1949) Journal of Franklin Institute, Vol.
248, 5, pp.399-436\[6\] Nickells, Robert F. Jr.; "The Design of an OptimalTypewriter-like Keyboard" (1973) M.S.
Thesis in IndustrialEngineering, Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania,vii+57pp.\[7\] Malt, Lillian G.; "Keyboard Design in the Electric Era"(September 1977) Conference Papers on Developments inData Capture and Photocomposition, PIRA EurotypeForum, September 14-15, London, 8pp.\[8\] Strong, Earl P.; "A Comparative Experiment in SimplifiedKeyboard Retaining and Standard Keyboard SupplementaryTraining" (1956) General Services Administration,Washington D.C., vi+42pp.\[91 Kinkead, Robin; "Typing Speed, Keying.
Rates, andOptimal Keyboard Layouts" (October 1975) Proc.
of 19thAnnual Meeting of Human Factors Society, Dallas, Texas,pp.159-161--248--
