FORMAL PROPERT IES  OF  RULE ORDERINGS IN L INGUIST ICSFrancis Jeffry PelletierDept.
Philosophy, Univ.
Alberta, Edmonton  Alberta CanadaAbs tractThe discovery in the late 1960's that standardlinguistic theory (of Chomsky 's  Aspects) wasequivalent in generative power  to unrestrictedrewrite rules caused linguists to search for a"stronger linguistic metatheory".
It seemed tosome of these researchers that this meantdescribing linguistic theory by means  of ruleswhich were more  restricted than type 0 lan-guages.
Such a view we call the L -v iew ofconstraints on linguistic theory: it advocatesconstraining the allowable rules in such a waythat legitimate grammars  can no longer gener-ate arbitrary r.e.
sets, but only some subsetof them.
To other researchers this discoverymeant  rather that one should place restrictionson linguistic theory so that the kinds of g ram-mars  allowed would be limited, regardless ofwhether such limitations affected the generativepower  of the theory.
We call this the G-v iewof constraints.
The L- and G-v iews are notequivalent limitations.
For  example, a G-v iewlimitation on the class of regular g rammarsthat any legitimate grammar  be r ight-embed-ding is not thereby a L -v iew limitation, sincethis does not effect an alteration in generativepower  of the grammars  allowed.
The G-v iewis avowedly psychological; according to it, thepoint of placing constraints on grammars  is tolessen directly the language learner's burdenof choosing the correct g rammar  f rom all thepossible ones.
For  the L-view, this is a sideeffect of disallowing whole classes of g ram-mars  in the first place.One area in linguistics where  restrictions onlinguistic theory have been advocated is in theordering (within the cycle) of the application ofthe rules which generate the language.
Hereare eight proposals that have been aired inlinguistics about how the rules might be order-ed.Total Ordering: there is a unique first rulesa unique second ..... a unique last rule.Every  derivation applies the rules in thisorder.Partial Ordering: there is a unique first rule,but thereafter at every stage of a deriva-tion there are two rules which are candi-dates for application: the rule which wasjust applied and the (unique) next differentrule.Semi  Order ing :  the ru les  a re  g iven  a totalo rder ing ,  but  d i f fe rent  der ivat ions  maystart  at d i f fe rent  p laces  in the order ing  andchoose  any  " la ter "  ru le  as  the next  ru le tobe  app l ied .Semi  Par t ia l  Order ing :  the ru les  a re  g iven  apar t ia l  o rder ing ,  but  d i f ferent  der ivat ionsmay start  at d i f ferent  p laces  in the order -ing and  choose  e i ther  the las t -app l ied  ru leor else any "later" rule as the next ruleto be applied.Unorderings: any derivation can apply therules in any order, subject only to theconstraint that once a rule has been appliedin a derivation, it is no longer eligible forapplication at a later stage of that deriva-tion.Quasi Ordering: any derivation can apply therules in any order, subject only to theconstraint that once a rule has been appliedin a derivation, the only other time it maybe applied in that derivation is to its ownoutput.Random Ordering: there is no order imposedon the rules; any derivation can apply therules in any order.Simultaneous Application: the entire set ofrules is applied to an input "all at once";this prevents some of the rules f rom creat-ing or destroying part of the input in sucha way  as to affect the applicability of otherrules.Advocates of one or another of these ruleorderings have adopted the G-view, and feelthat the rule ordering restrictions they desirewill directly lessen the psychological task oflearning the correct g rammar .
The argumentsfor this conclusion are canvassed and found tobe inconclusive (at best).
The present paperadopts the L -v iew and, consequently, investi-gates the issue of generative power  of thevarious theories of rule orderings.
We arereally interested in more  than just the weakgenerative power  of these theories: we wouldwant to know whether every empirical claim(such as ambiguity, paraphrase, etc.)
whichcan be made by one theory could also be madeby another (their strong generative capacity).We trust that if, for any grammar  obeying ruleordering conditions A there is a g rammarobeying rule ordering conditions B such thatthey both obey standard linguistic strictures-412  -on the correctness of rules and such that thetwo contain exactly the same class of deriva-tions, then rule ordering theory B is at leastas powerful in strong generative capacity asrule ordering theory A.
If the converse canalso be established, then they are equivalentin strong generative capacity~ if the conversecannot also be established then rule orderingtheory B is more  powerful in strong generativecapacity than rule ordering theory A.
If theycan each be shown to generate empirical claimsthe other can't, then they are non-comparablei_nq strong generative capacity.
A series oftheorems are proved resulting in the relation-ships illustrated in Figure 1 (attached).Some linguists who advocate " random ordering"actually have in mind  random ordering plussome "universal principles".
These universalprinciples are intended to rule out certainderivations - - those derivations in whichpairs of rules are not applied in the orderspecified by the principles.
(Also, since theirproponents hold the G-view, these principlesare supposed to correspond to psychologicallyplausible learning/processing strategies).
Weinvestigate the effect of four of these principlesf rom the standpoint of the L-view, showingthat two of them are strongly equivalent to totalorderings and that two of them are intermediatebetween total and partial orderings.We close with an indication of what the role ofmathematical  linguistics Should be for theordinary working linguist.RANDOM ORDERINGSQUASI  ORDERINGSUNORDERINGS SEMI  PART IALSEMI  ORDERINGS PART IALORDERINGS \ /TOTAL ORDERINGS(= "NON-CONTRADICTORY"S IMULTANEOUS APPL ICAT ION)F IGURE 1 : Relative Strong GenerativeCapacities of Various Theories ofRule Orderings.
X - - -~Y  meansthat theory X is stronger thantheory Y.
( -~ is transitive).- 413- -
