INTERACTION WITH A L IMITED OBJECT DOMAIN -ZAPSIB PROJECTA .S .Nar in 'yan iComput ing  Center, S iber ian  Branch USSR Ac.
Sci.630090 Novos ib i rsk ,  USSRAbstract .
The report  presents  thebasis pr inc ip les  of the ZAPSIB pro jecta imed at the deve lopment  of a modularser ies of l inguist ic  processors  des ignedfor natura l  language (NL) in teract ionwith appl ied data bases.
The genera ls t ructure of the ZAPSIB processors  andfunct ions of the main  modules  are dis-cussed, as wel l  as techno logy of the pro-ject inc lud ing prob lem of processorsadaptat ion  to an ob ject  domain of the in-teract ion.I.
Basic pr inc ip lesLaunch ing  the pro ject  the authors  x) wereaware of spec ia l i t ies  of commerc ia l  sys-tems which are pr inc ipa l ly  d i f fe rent  inmany respects  from the exper imenta l  prog-rams deve loped as their  prototypesat the beg inn ing  of the app l i ca t iona ld i rect ion  of our NL works.7,  2This pos i t ion  was implemented in the ba-sic pr inc ip les  of the pro ject  which  couldbe formulated as fol lows:(a) C iv ing up the rea l i za t ion  of any"genera l ized"  scheme of in teract ion  (an"average" user ~ an "average" objectdomain) .
No scheme of that k ind is pos-sible in pr inc ip le:  a customer 's  demandscould d i f fer  dec is ive ly  on the main pa-rameters  of the interact ion,  such as- l imi tedness  of the NL syntax ;- contents  and complex i ty  of the objectdomain;- the lex icon size;- the computer 's  resource;- the e f f i c iency  of L -processor ,  etc.For some of the parameters  the l imits ofthose demands can vary up to 100, I 0OOor even 10 O00 times.
In this spectrumof d ivers i ty  it is not poss ib le  to ex-t ract  one or two dominant  s tereotypes  -p rac t i ca l l y  every customer needs his ownL-processor ,  adequate to his specia l  con-d i t ions and in teract ion  domain.This s i tuat ion determines  the st rategyof the project:  it programs the develop-ment  of not one but aser ies  of L -processorswi th  the same general  s t ructure whosebasic modules  are rea l i zed as sequencesof success ive ly  extend ing and compat ib leR) The pro ject  being carr ied  out by A.I.Laboratory  of the Comput ing  Center  ofthe S iber ian  Div.
of the USSR Acad.
Sci.vers ions.
Imp lementat ion  of this pr in-c ip le is supposed to prov ide more ade-quate choice of L -p rocessor  conf igura-t ion wi th  regard to a par t i cu lar  user.
(b) Each L -processor  is to be par t i t ion -ed into the un iversa l  and adaptableparts.
The latter covers all the infor-mat ion  depend ing  on the domain of ap-p l i cat ion  and includes- the data base structure:  ob jec t , the i rat t r ibutes  and relat ions;- the lexicon of in teract ion  domain, in-c lud ing the vocabulary ,  s tandard word-complexes  and denotat ions.- the syntax of the formal language ofthe system the L -processor  works with.To spec i f i cate  the adaptable  part  ofL -p rocessor  dur ing its "tuning in" theob ject  domain, the processor ' s  modulesare completed  wi th  special  means.
For abet ter  e f fec t iveness  of the adaptat ion  apro fess iona lcar ry ing  out this process  isprov ided with a h igh- leve l  dec la ra t ivelanguage and a set of spec ia l i zed  meta-processors  which compi le  the "outer"spec i f i ca t ion  into the inner representa-tion.The complex of these metaprocessors  com-poses the STEND system which is construc-ted spec ia l ly  to ensure maximal  comfortand e f fec t iveness  of adaptat ion  proce-dure (fig.l) ?
(c) Shor tcomings  of the t rad i t iona l  "syn-tact ica l  ana lys is  ~ semant ica l  analy-sis" sequence are wel l  known:- This scheme enables to process  only"syntact ica l ly  normal"  texts.
Any v io la-t ion of the norm (which is rather  rulethan except ion  for a mass user) leads tofaults.- In pr inc ip le  this scheme is based onassumpt ion  of ex istence of a "complete"formal NL model.
But no such a model  hasbeen e laborated  up to the moment  andmost  probab ly  it wi l l  not be ava i lab ledur ing nearest  ten years.- Even rather rough approx imat ions  ofthe model  being deve lopped recent ly  arecumbersome,  expens ive  and too e f f i c iency-k i l l ing  for a commerc ia l  type system.Semant ica l l y -o r iented  analys is  of textbased on maximal  u t i l i za t ion  of semant ic" foundat ion"  of a message and us ing syn-tax in format ion  as loca l ly  as poss ib lefor e l iminat ion  of super f luous  meanings,seems free of the ment ioned  shor tcomingsand much more adequate as a model  of un-ders tand ing  process.
2,3,4--567--Module' s input i 1Universal  part \ ] ~  pdaptab leer  Adaptat ionJ<_____~ representat ion)~ s metaprOces-a module of L -processor  J I iIIModule 's  outputZAPSIB L -processorIi~ S~pecif icatio~nl of adaptable IIpart (outer II representa-  i~on)  Ji i STEND SystemFig.1.
A module of a ZAPSIB L -processorand the scheme of its adaptat ionthrough the STEND system.The sphere of appl icat ions of the ap-proach is l imited now to rest r ic ted ob-ject domains, and 'user - appl ied database' interface is one of the most ac-tual examples of such a problem.For rea l izat ion of the semant ica l ly -or i -ented analys is  the ZAPSIB L-processorsare completed with special  means enabl-ing to specify and use deta i led dataabout the interact ion domain.
(d) The main procedure of the analys isis organized as a non-determin is t i c  bot-tom-up parse process, one- or mul t i -va-riant, depending on the processor  version.This organizat ion corresponds opt imal lyto chosen formal apparatus based on thenot ion of c o m p o n e n t whichgenera l izes the means of dependency andconst i tuents  grammars.2.
General  scheme ofZAPSIB L-processorsThe minor vers ions of ZAPSIB L -processorsbeing under development  now have the ge-neral scheme(f ig.2) .Preprocess in~ module includes- lexical  analysis  which decomposes thestr ing of input text and div ides it intowords, numbers of var ious notat ions andlet ter -d ig i ta l  denotat ions;- assemblage of word-complexes,  i.e.standard combinat ions of lexemes whichare used as an integrate semantic  unitunder further stages of analys is  (War andPeace Internat ional  Federat ion of In-formation Processing,  etc).Main process operates with a systemof rules, each of them being product ionreal ized in a h igh- level  context -depen-dent grammar.
The system includes spe-cial means to control  part ia l  order ingof the rules appl icat ion.
The level ofthe grammar and control  means depends onthe L-processor  version.
At the module 'soutput  one or more (in a case of ambigu-ous result  of the analysis) acycl ic  parsegraphs are formed.Postprocess ing  comprises threestages:- e l iminat ion of the local ambigui t ieswith the help of global  in format ion aboutthe text meaning formed up to the end ofthe parse;- synthesis  of the text semantic  repre-sentat ion according to the parse graph;- generat ion of the output  representat ionof the text meaning in the User 's  systemformal language.Model of interact ion domain incorpo-rates all the semantic and pragmat ic  in-format ion concern ing the interact ion do-main and necessary  for the operat ing ofall other modules.Feed-back with the user serves, i fnecessary to specify the user 's  inten-t ions and ver i fy  the results of the ana-lysis.
The ZAPSIB strategy regards ap-p ly ing to the user as an extreme measurein the most urgent  cases.Each of the main modules  is in its turna complex of modules and this providessuf f ic ient  f lex ib i l i ty  and compat ib i l i tyof d i f ferent  vers ions of the modules.3.
Technology of the pro jectFor the development  of indiv idual  modulesas well  as "assembled" conf igurat ions  weuse a two-stage technolog ica l  cycle:(I) Creat ion of the work ing pi lot  programin the very h igh- level  SETL language;(2) Transfer r ing  the SETL-program intothe instrumental  language (PL/I).Such a technology helps to cut down ef"forts on the development  of the univer-sal part  of the software up to threetimes.Special  at tent ion in the project  is paid toautomat ion of the adaptat ion procedureof the L-processor  to the user 's  object--568--Model  ofin teract iondomain  \\x Feed-backwith  the userAnswer  for-~ _~ mulat ionIj 'Natura i  l anguage~text  /LPreprocess ingMa in  processPos tprocess ingRepresentat ion  of ~the text  mean ingin the user ' ssys tem language\]LThe user ' s  sys tem~ I VOCABULARYI Lex ica l  ru les~ Ma in  ru lesFig.
2.
Genera l  scheme of ZAPSIB  L -processors .domain.
The adaptat ion  is expected  to berea l i zed  on the p i lo t  "L -processor  - da-ta base"  tandem by means  of the STENDsystem.
5, 6 P rov ided  w i th  a set of spe-c ia l i zed  d ia logue  means  the sys tem enab-les to car ry  out  p rocedure  by d i rec t  in-te rac t ion  w i th  any of the L -processormodules .Re ferencesi.
HapMH~HM A.C.,  HXHO T.M.
KOHTeKCTHO--3aBHcHMaH FpaN~4aTHKa C pa3p~BH~MM COCTaS-~HD~MMH B CHCTeMe BOCXO~eFo aHa~H3a.
-B KH.
:  BSaHMo~e~CTBHe C 9BM Ha eCTeCTBeH--HOM HS~Ke.
- HOBOCH6HpcK:  1978,C .157-165 .2.
~eBMH ~.~.,  HapHHBHHH A.C. 9KcnepM-MeHTanBH~ MHHMnpoueccop:  ceMaHTHqeCKHopMeHTMpOBaHH~ aHanHs.
- B KH.
: BSa~MO-~e~CTBMe C 9BM Ha eCTeCTBeHHOM ~s~Ke.
-HOBOCH6HpCK:  1978, C. 223--233.3.
Nar in 'yan i  A.S. AI Work  in the Com-puter  Center  of the S iber ian  Branch  ofthe USSR Acad.
of Sc iences .
- In: Mach ineIn te l l igence ,  E l l i s  Horwood Ldt.
1979,V.9.4.
HapMH~HH A.C. ~HHFBMCTM~ecKHe npo-~eccop~ BAHCHB (qacTB I - 3a~aqH npoeK-Ta) .
- HOBOCM6HpcK,  1979.
- 22 c .
(Hpen-pHHT/B~ CO AH CCCP, 199).5.
HapMHBHHM A.C. ~HHFBHCTMKecKHe npo-~eccopN 3AHCHB (qaCTb 2 - 0~a~ cxeMaM OCHOBH~e Mo~ynH) .
- HOBOCH6MpCK,  1979.
-48 C. (HpenpHHT/B~ CO AH CCCP, 202).6.
~eBHH ~.~.
CTEH~ - CHCTeMa a~anTauzHnHHFBMCTMqecKHx npoueccopoB.
- HOBOCH-6HpcK, 1980.
- 29 C. (HpenpMHT/B~ CO AHCCCP, 238).--569--
