HUMAN FACTORS AND LINGUISTIC CONSIDERATIONS:KEYS TO HIGH-SPEED CHINESE CHARACTER INPUTPaul L. King"Cornell UniversityIthaca, NY, USAAbstractWith a keyboard and supportingsystem developed at Cornell Univer-sity, input methods used to identifyideographs are adaptations of well-known schemes; innovation is in theaddition of automatic machine selec-tion of ambiguously identified char-acters.The unique feature of the Cornelldesign is that a certain amount ofintelligence has been built into themachine.
This allows an operator totake advantage of the fact that about60% of Chinese characters in textare paired with other characters toform two-syllable compounds or phrasewords.
In speech and writing thesepairings eliminate about 95% of theambiguities created by ambiguouslyidentified syllables.IntroductionFor Chinese character input tocomputers, a Cornell research teamhas approached the problem from thepoint of view of the type of personwho would most likely be operatinga Chinese electronic typewriter,namely, a commercial Chinese typistwith junior middle school educationwho would regularly be typing foreight to ten hours per day.
For sucha person, a word processing systemshould be easy to learn, fast (aver-aging 50 characters/minute), and cap-able of being used for several hourswithout inducing a high level of fa-tigue.Of the many input systems thathave been proposed in recent years,one based on Wang Yun-yu's four-cornernumbering system has best demonstrat-ed, in the opinion of the Cornellteam, the capability of meeting thecriteria of ease of learning, speed,and low operator fatigue level.
Forexample, operator training is simpli-fied because keystrokes are assignedby "inspection" rather than rotememory.Also, frequently used simplexcharacters such as particles aregiven unique identifiers so they canbe inserted in text without goingthrough a manual disambiguationprocess.
Even more significantly,manual disambiguation has beeneliminated entirely in nineteen casesout of twenty by attention to ling-uistic affinities of characters.Shape CodeThe four-corner system is asimple encoding scheme that nativeChinese speakers learn in about halfan hour.
In this system, the peri-pheral forms of all Chinese charactersare projected onto ten basic strokeshape classes (~, - - ,~ ,~,~ ,~ , ~ ,7 , /~ ,~) ,  to which single-digitvalues are assigned.
On the basisthat ideograms are basically squarein appearance, four-digit numberscan be read from stroke shapes atthe corners, in the sequence top left,top right, bottom left, bottom right.Thus the shape classes describing acharacter such as ~ are .~, J~ ,~, - - .I have made two refinements onWang's original four-corner system.First of all, the Cornell code in-cludes elimination of all four-cornernull zeros, so that identifiersfor characters vary from one to fourdigits.
Thus, the identifier for theChinese character "--" is simply"~" ,  with the three null zeroseliminated.As applied to the Cornell inputsystem, middle-of-word ("comma")and end~of-word ("print") delimiterkeys make possible the use of var-iable-length input codes for identi-fication of Chinese characters.
Ifnull zeros were retained so that allcharacters were uniformly identifiedby four-digit numbers, there wouldbe no need for either "enter" ordelimit keys.
However, new flexibilitycomes through the use of delimiters.Specifically, there are threeadvantages to the Cornell code:i) The variation of identifiersize increases the number of identi-fier categories, thus somewhat reduc-ing ambiguities.2) An operator does not needto mentally add null zeros in orderto read an identifier from an ideo-gram; he identifies only the shapesthat are there.3) On the average it takes fewer--279--key strokes to type the identifierfor a given ideogram.On this keyboard, all keys aretaught in direct correspondence tostroke shapes, thus eliminating theneed for operators to do any inter-mediate encoding into numbers.
Theydo, however, use the number valuesof the keys in disambiguation.
Atany given instant the keyboard isthus being treated either as a collec-tion of stroke shape class identifiersor as a collection of digits, but notboth together.The second refinement that theCornell team has made in the four-corn-er system is in redefining the numbervalues of some of the shapes in ac-cordance with human factors considera-tions of keyboard design .
Figure 1is a schematic representation of thenew shape identifier keyboard.
"77+08/3JHFigure 1Placement of stroke keys is determinedby shape association, frequency ofuse, and positions in characters."
--" and '~\" are the Chinesenumbers 1 and 8, and "7"  looks likea number 7, so those three shapes areplaced on their respective numberkeys.
Although no shape-numberassociations are taught to typists,placing the above shapes on theirassociated number keys is an attemptto forestall potential interferenceacross modes.The most frequently used shapes,"~"  ") ", and " - " ,  are placedon the middle row of keys, so thatan operator does not need to move hisfingers from the normal rest posi-tion in order to depress those keys.The remaining four shape identi-fiers are the least frequently usedof the ten.
They are placed on thekeyboard in the approximate positionswhere they usually appear in Chineseideograms.DisambiguationLack of speed has, until recently,been a major drawback of shape identi-fiers for Chinese data entry.
Ina set of 8,000 characters, Wang Yun-yu's code uniquely identifies only11% of characters.Thus, if the four-corner methodis used to identify a simplex charac-ter, there is a two-step processthat can be invoked in order toisolate the desired character.
Thekey to speed in typing is to automatethis process as often as possible,which is what we have done.The non-automatic aspect issimple.
The first step involves look-ing up all characters described bya particular code.
In an electronicword processor, all the charactersmeeting a particular shape descrip-tion are displayed on the CRT.
Theoperator then implements the secondstep which consists of picking thedesired character out of the displayedlist for insertion in text.In the Cornell device, manualtwo-step disambiguation is a straight-forward process.
If the identifierpoints to only one character, thatcharacter is inserted in text.
Inthe event ambiguity remains afterinitial entry, the machine gives theoperator an audible cue and displaysthe complete ambiguous list.
Thenthe operator can make his choice bytyping a number indicating which listedcharacter he wants, followed by the"PRINT" command.
That character isprinted, and typing continues withthe next entry.However, the unique feature ofthe Cornell design is that a certainamount of intell igence has been builtinto the machine.
This allows anoperator to take advantage of thefact that about 60% of Chinese char-acters in text are paired with othercharacters to form two-syllable com-pounds or phrase words.
In speechand writing these pairings eliminateabout 95% of the ambiguities createdby homophonous syllables.The Cornell input scheme capital-izes on this characteristic of thelanguage by allowing the operator- 280to type in identifiers for two pairedcharacters in sequence.
A storeddictionary of pairings eliminatesmost ambiguities that arise in search-ing for simplex characters.For example, Cornell code --identifies such characters as ~ , ~ ,, and ~.
However, the character @(Cornell code \]/\ \] -- ) occurs ina pairing only with the last charac-ter in the above list.
Thus, if anoperator enters " , J1\ )PRINT", using "," as a nonfinal char-acter delimiter and "PRINT" as afinal delimiter, the unique pairi~  is retrieved immediately fromthe machine without need for anymanual disambiguation.In the event ambiguous pairs arestill encountered, they are disam-biguated manually in the manner firstdescribed.
In any case, input speedis greatly increased through use ofthe dictionary.An editor is constantly accessibleas part of the system, so that changescan be made to any part of the textthat is being typed at any time.Development and ApplicationThe Cornell design is meetingthe criteria envisioned for commer-cial operators.
Chinese test subjectsrequire only half an hour of instruc-tion to learn the shape keyboard ofFigure 1 and the means of disambigu-ating.
Thereafter, with about 80hours of practice, typists are achiev-ing speeds of more than 40 characters/minute with typing error rates ap-proaching 0 (See Figure 2).
More-over, over a period of a year, testsubjects have maintained a high levelof motivation with frequent long hoursat the keyboard.It is anticipated that meantyping speeds of 50-60 characters/minute for uncorrected text will beachieved with further machine develop-ment and operator training.Current areas of development arei) implementation of simplifiedcharacter sets in the machine alongwith associated shape identifiers,2) isolation of specialized vocabularyinto specified sets, and 3) continuedtesting of Chinese operators in thefield.Future development and applica-tions include the following:i) The 12-key keyboard can beimplemented via a touch-tone telephone,enabling any touch-tone telephone tobe used as a remote terminal for theelectronic word processor.2) Various output applicationscan be developed, including printer/plotter, typesetting, and directtelegraph transmission.3) Implementation of a chordkeyboard can be studied.SummaryIn sum, the Cornell electronicword processor for Chinese has addedmachine disambiguation to an old inputidea.
By using a "friendly interface,"we have enabled the machine to acceptambiguous input codes (four-cornershape identifiers) and use its limitedintelligence to provide the desiredoutput in a one-step process.
Withthis system, the learning processis greatly simplified for Chinesetypists, rapid typing speeds are achiev-ed within a short period of time, andoperator fatigue is kept at a lowlevel.The work on which this paper wasbased received support from theNCR Corporation.References1 Herring, J.
A., The FoursquareDictionary , Taipei: Mei Ya Publications,Inc., 1969, pp.
6-12.2 Meguire, Patrick G., HumanFactors Scientist, NCR Corp., Per-sonal communication to author, 15February 1979.BibliographyKiang, Te-yao, "A Natural Way ofAnalysis of the Ideograms andits Application to Chinese Langu-age Input System," Proceedingsof International Computer Sym-posium 1977, p. 322.Proceedings of International ComputerSymposium 1977, Vol.
i, Taipei:National Taiwan University.Proceedings of the First InternationalSymposium on Computers and Chin-ese Input/Output Systems, Za i~ i :Academia Sinica, 1973.- 281Yu, Wellington Chia-pier, "An InputEncoding Scheme for ChineseCharacters," Proceedings of In-ternational Computer Symposium1977.8?
.~;'~ ?
?
?4=I ??
% o ?
~ l=~m,,; " ?
?
?
?
~ =4o Y: 0: .
- '<"  ?
F-~ ?
=~-= I= ' - /  ?
; !=~.JIK?
o< - i-=CUMULATIVE HOURI I f  EXPERIENCENUMBER OF SUI3JECTS : 30I TP ING F~ATE :NUMBER EIF TEST5 : \]QBTIME CONST,qNT : 6B.
?
17.
HOURS.RSTMPFOIE = q3.
?
3.
CI4RRIMINSCAITER = 9.
CHRR/MINERR~JA F IATE;NUMBEFI OF TEST5 = 83TIME CON$TRNT = I~ .
?
7.
HOURSRSTMPTOrE = I .
?
2.
PER CE_NrSCR\] rEfl = \] I .
PER CENT31 May 1980Figure 2- -282  -
