GENERATION OF THESAURUS IN DIFFERENT LANGUAGESA COMPUTER BASED SYSTEMF J DEVADASONDocumentation Research and Training CentreIndian Statistical Institute31 Church StreetBengalore - 560001INDIAThe development of the theory oflibrary classification and of subjectindexing, for the organisation, storageand retrieval of subjects embodied indocuments has a striking parallelism tothe search for 'universal forms' anddeep structure'ln language and linguis-tic studies.
The significant contri-butions of  the theories of  classifi-cation and subject indexing are thesubject analysis techniques of Ranga-nathan and Bhattacharyya's POPSI.
Acomputer based system, for generatingan information retrieval thesaurus,from modulated subject-proposltlons,formulated according to the subjectanalysis techniques, enriched withcertain codes for relating the termsin the subject-proposltlons has beendeveloped.
The system generates hier-archlc, associative, coordinate andsynonymous relationships between termsand presents them as an alphabeticalthesaurus.
Also, once a thesaurus isgenerated in one language it is possi-ble to produce the same thesaurus indifferent languages by Just forming atable of equivalent terms in therequired language.Inform~tlon Retrle v@l Th@s,eurusAn information retrieval thesau-rus could be defined as "a controlleddynamic vocabulary of semanticallyrelated terms offering comprehensivecoverage of a domain of knowledge".Its main use is in the subject cha-racterization of documents end queriesin information storage and retrievalsystems^based on concept coordi-nation ~o.The application of computers forupdating, testing, editing and print-ing thesaurus 25 has gained muchimportance due to the use of thesaurusas a vocabulary control device in bib-liographic information storage andretrieval systems, at the input stagefor controlled indexing and at theretrieval stage for expanding thef ~,f search query to increase recall -both in batch and on-line modes ofprocessing 18, 22, 62, 64.Automatic Generation of ThescurusSeveral experiments in automaticgeneration of thesaurus have beencarried out in which relationshipsbetween terms have been determined bytaking into account the number of docu-ments in which therespectlve termsoccur Jointly 27, 65.
Various cluster-ing techniques have been investigatedout of a range of similarity criteria.The role played by similarity criteriain obtaining the environment of eachterm and the use of this environmentfor retrieval have been explored 57.Computational procedures for genera-ting thesaurus include keyword statis-tics, calculation of Tanlmoto coeffi-cient 61, matrix inversion, formationof similarity matrix, automatic clusteranalysis using minimal tree procedureand compilation of groups2~nd ~aln6,~__groups of descriptors i, ~, ~ , ~ ,58, 65, 66.But, "the difficulty, however,is that text-scannlng is more effectivein syntactic and morphological analysiswhere there is sufficient repetitionto justify the belief that a particularfact is significant" 31, 32.
Further,all these techniques use a lot ofcomputer time and are capable of pro-duclng a list of selected and groupedkeywords.
But it has also beenobserved that, although a large varietyof clusters and assoclsted queryexpansions have been obtained, no slg-niflcant improvements in the documentretrieval3~erformance have beanachieved ~.
In other words, an infor-mation retrieval thesaurus is somethingmorekeywordsthan4~.llst of grouped and rankedBAsic Aspects of ThesaurusThere are two basic aspects ofthesaurus construction.
They are:I selection of keywords/descriptorsof the subject for which thethesaurus is constructed; and303--2 establishment of interrelation-ships among these selected key-words as to whether the terms forma broader or narrower or relatedor synonymous or 'use' relation.Using computers alone for both theabove mentioned aspects of thesaurusconstruction is not practicable for,using computers for selecting the key-words from free language text is not aneconomic approach, and it is not feasi-ble to make a computer automaticallydistinguish the relationship betweenterms as to broader, narrower,synonymous etc.Metalanguage for Information Or~anl-sationIt was realised that the failureof experiments with automatic abstract-ing, indexing etc., "should be soughtabove all, in an insufficient knowledgeof the structure of the text from thestandpoint of relationships between anapparent formal linguistic representa-tion on bne hand and on the other hand,the informational content involved inthe text ... As the result of suchinvestigations we Can arrive, amongothers, at various descriptive formulasof the structure of scientific texts "28.One way of arriving at structures thatreflect specific textual content is tomake use of the restrictions in langua-ge usage which are characteristic ofthe texts in a particular subject matterthat is, to exploit the fact that on aparticular topic, only certain words incertain combinations actually appear 55.In other words, it was realised thatwhat is required is a special purposeartificial language, to cater to theneeds of information storage, process-ing and retrieval.
The Automatic Lan-g uage Processing Advisory Committee 1966) reallsed and reported that "Adeeper knowledge of language couldhelp ... to enable us to engineer arti-ficial languages for special purposes...and to use machines as aids in trans-lation and in information retrieval"40.Subsequently, suggestions for ametatheory of linguistics and informa-tion science, with a metalauguage hav-ing all the properties of a c lass i f i -cation schema have been proposed.
Theterm 'metalanguage' specifies a'public' metalanguage, such as a docu-ment classification system, as distin-guished from the 'object language' re-presented by the documents.
Thewritten record of a document classifi-cation schema is not really parallel tothe surface structure of the objectlanguage - the natural language senten-ces of a document.
A classificationschema is intended to classify, and,therefore the language of the schema ismainly classificatory.
In other words,the metalanguage does not explicitlyinclude all relevant terms in the objectlanguage, but the object language doesinclude all terms in the metalanguage.Moreover, superset-subset (class inclu-sion) relations are usually explicitlygiven by~he structure of the classifi-cation jo.
Thus some of the'logicalsemantic' relatigns , specifically thoseof implication 4D are specified in theso-called 'surface structure~of themetalanguage, but not in the surfacestructure of the object language 38.Universal Forms and Subject Represen-tatlonParallel to the search for univer-sal linguistic forms such as that ex-p ounded by Chomsky, Fodor and others the discovery that certain features ofgiven languages can be reduced to uni-versal properties of language and ex-plained in terms of deeper aspects oflinguistic form, 11, 12, 37; and thatsuch deep structure of sentences deter-mine the semantic content while theirsurface structures determine the phone-tic interpretation), steps towards theformulation of generic framework forstructuring the representation of thename of a subject for the developmentof classification schemes and subject21~ndexln~ languages were investigated ,3, 45-~8.
Such universals are Beingarrived at and used in various otherareas dealing with information andinformation processing.
For instance,in the area of data modelling, now thebasic problem is to identify the worldas a domain of objects with propertiesand relations 10.Such categorlsation of objects ofstudy is not new to the library profe-ssion.
As early as 1930s, the use ofcategorlsation of component ideas form-ing the name of a subject into Person-ality/core object of study, Matter/property/method, Energy/acti~1, Space/place and Time, and defining an orderof these categories to form a 'logical,classificatory language' resulting in'faceted' library classification sche-mes was known in India 45, 47.It is interesting to note that ithas been realised now that the abovementioned Ranganathan's categoriesPersonality, Matter and Energy, are"general categories building thesystem's etructure as a spatlotemporal304neighbourhood relationship " useful inderiving meta informational, for a pro-cess of automatic analysis too 13, 14.The order of the component ideasdenoting the different categories inthe name of a subject as prescribed iscontext-dependent order.
More specifi-cally it is context-specifying order.Every component category sets the con-text for the next and following ones.Also in this classificatory language,every category should explicitly havethe corresponding superordinate compo-nent ideas preceding it.
The reasonfor fixing the superordinates beforethecomponent elements concerned is torender the component elements denoteprecisely the ideas they represent.Further, it has been conjecturedthat 46, 52 the syntax (order) of re-presentation of the component elementsin the name of a subject as prescribedby the pr$~ciples for sequence - facetsequence 4w - is more or less parallelto the Absolute Syntax - ie., the se-quence in which the component ideas ofsubjects falling in a subject-fleldarrange themselves in the minds of amajority of normal intellectuals.
Ifthe syntax of the representation of thecomponent ideas of subjects is made toconform to, or parallel to the AbsoluteSyntax, then the pattern of linking ofthe component ideas - ie., the result-ing kngwledge structure is likelyto be ~I More helpful in organising subjectsin a logical sequence for efficientstorage and retrieval;2 Free from the aberrations due tovariations in linguistic syntaxfrom the use of the verbal plane innaming subjects; and3 Helpful in probing deeper into thepattern of human thinking and modesof ~ombination of  ideas.Subject In~exin ~ ~nd ThesAurusDue to the development of techni-ques for structuring of subjects andfor classification of subjects, severalexperiments were conducted at the Docu-mentation Research and Training Centreto use them for thesaurus construction.To begin with, a faceted library cla-ssification scheme for a specific sub-ject field was used in t~ computer--generation of thesaurus -~ in which itwas possible to incorporate the hier-archic relationships of terms.
But itwas not possible to incorporate thegeneration of non-hierarchic associ-ative relationship of terms.Terms that have associative rela-tionship to each other have to be esta-bllshed only by consensus of experts inthe field concerned.
But the validityof the assumption that, knowledge basedon the consensus of experts in a fieldis different from the knowledge expre-ssed in the literature of the field hasbeen challenged, as the two lists ofkeywords, one given by experts and theother formed by analysis of publishedliterature were not significantlydifferent 33.
In other words, termsthat are related to each other assocl-atively could be easily ascertained byan analysis of the statement of thename of the subject of a document or ofa reader's query.
For instance, whe-ther "x-ray treatment" is associatlvelyrelated to "cancer", or not, could beestablished if there exists a documenton "x-ray treatment of cancer".
Inother words, a published document on"x-ray treatment of cancer" brings intoassociative relationship both "x-raytreatment" and "cancer".
Also it isunimportant which terms co-occur fre-quently in the names of subjects for,any term that is used once in thestatement of the name of a subject isenough to be admitted into the thesau-rus for that subject and is relatedwith other terms in that name of thesubject in some particular way.
Inorder to incorporate associatively re-lated terms in thesauri, experimentswere conducted 35, 53 using subjectrepresentations formulated for thepurpose of developing classificationschedules, which were arrived at bYRanganathan's facet analysis 21, 49 forthesaurus construction.
With certainlimitations it was possible to generatebroader, narrower and associative re-lationships but not coordinate rela-tionships.
Further, it was realisedthat 2, 17 selection of candidate termsand ascertaining of multiple linkage ofrelationships among terms can be donein several ways such as by1 the analysis of user's queryspecifications ;2 the analysis of summarised state-ments of the subjects of documents;and3 the analysis of sentences in thetext of dictionary, glossary, en-cyclopaedia and even text booksand treatises.Artificlal Lan~u~e for ThesaurusFurther research into the funda-mentals of subject indexing languagesresulting in the development of a305-general4theory of subject indexing lan-guages and the development of thePostulate-based Permuted Subject Index-ing (POPSI) language 3, 8 has provideda basis for a more efficient and flexi-ble system for thesaurus construction.According to the general theory ofsubject indexing languages; informationis the message conveyed or intended tobe conveyed by a systemetlsed body ofideas, or its accepted or acceptablesubstitutes.
Information in general,is of two types: discursive informationand non-dlscursive information or unitfacts.
Non-discursive information orunit facts may be6either qualitative orquantitative P, I .
The name of a sub-Ject is essentially a piece of non-dls-cursive information end it is conveyedby an indicative formulation that summa-rises in its message, 'what a particu-lar body of information is about'.
"Thelanguage for indicating what a body ofinformation is about, need not necessa-rily be in terms of sentences of thenatural language.
It can be an artifi-cial language of indicative formulationused to indicate whet a body of infor-mation is about" o.The essential ingredients of alanguage - natural or artificial - erethe elementary constituents; and rulesfor the formulation of admissible ex-pressions using the elementary consti-tuents.
A Subject Indexing Languageconsists of elementary constituents andrules for the formulation of admissiblesubject-proposltlons.
It is used tosummarise in indicative formulationswhat the contents of a source of infor-mation are about.
The purpose of thesesummarlslng indicative formulations isto create groups of sources of informa-tion to facilitate expeditious retrievalof information about them by providingnecessary and sufficient access points.The component ideas in the nameof a subject can be deemed to fall inany one of the elementary categories:Discipline, Entity, Action and Property.The term 'manifestation' is used todenote an idea or a term denoting anidea, falling in any one of the elemen-tary categories.
Apart from the ele-mentary categories there are Modifiersto the elementary categories.
A modi-fier refers to an idea or a term deno-ting an idea, used or intended to beused to qualify the manifestation with-out disturbing the conceptual wholenessof the latter.
A modifier can modify amanifestation of any one of the elemen-tary categories, as well as a combina-tion of two or more manifestations oftwo or more elementary categories.Modifiers can be common modifiers liketime, place etc.
or special modifierswhich can be entity based or actionbased or property based.
Apart from theelementary categories and modifiersthere is a Base and Core.
Due to thefact that recent research work is gene-rally project-orlented, mlsslon-orlent-ed and inter-dlsclpllnary and not gene-rally disclpllne-orlented, there may bea need to bring together all or majorportion of information pertaining toamanifestation or manifestations of aparticular elementary category.
Thismanifestation or elementary category isthe Base.
Similarly, need may arise tobring together within a recognised Base,all or major portion of information per-taining to manifestations of one ormore elementary categories, the cate-gory or categories concerned are theCore of the concerned Base.
Also theelementary categories may admit ofSpecies (genus-specles) and Parts (Whole-Part).The elementary constituents of aspeciflc Subject Indexing Language -POPSI D, 7, 8are given below:2 Relation2.1 General2.2 Bias2.3 Comparison2.4 Similarity2.5 Difference2.6 Application2.7 InfluenceCommon Modifier3 Time Modifier4 Environment Modifier5 Place ModifierElementary Category7 DisciplineAc  oo.2 Property9 Base,Part.Specles/Type-SpecialModifierA and P can gowith another Aand P alsoFeatures ana1~gous to D, E,A and P.'Fne rules of syntax of POPSI pre-scribed for the subject-propositions isD followed by E (both modified or un-modified) appropriately interpolated orextrapolated wherever warranted, by A ?and/or P (both modified or un-modified).A manifestation of Action (A) followsimmediately the manifestation in rela-tion to which it is an A.
A manifes-tation of Property (P) follows immedi-ately the manifestations in relation to-306--which it is a P. A Species (type)/Partfollows immediately the manifestationin relation to which it is a Species/Part.
A Modifier follows immediatelythe manifestation in relation to whichit is a modifier.
Generally a modifiergives rise to a species.
Also if nece-ssary auxiliary words within bracketscould be inserted in between terms iffound necessary?
These form the basisof the POPSI language.While examining whether a classifi-cation scheme could form a 'metalangu-age' of a metatheory of linguistics andinformation science, it has been obser-ved that "all relational informationnecessary for the explication of anobject language" are not present inclassification schema, especially rolenotions and presuppositions 38.
Such'relational modifiers' or 'role indica-tors', qS, 20, 63 that describe therole of the concept in context, repre-senting basic 'role notions' such asthe cause of the event, the effect ofthe event etc., similar to that of thecase relations - nominative, accusative,instrumental 19 etc.
- if incorporatedin the subject-propositions, fo~nulatedaccording to the 'subject analysis'techniques mentioned above 3-8, 45-52,then it could form a 'metalanguage' forthesaurus, from which thesaurus couldbe generated automatically.,!Dput Subject-propositions forThesaurusThe preparation of input to thethesaurus construction system startswith writing out sentences such as,"this book is about ... , this reportis about ...., this paper is about ...,this query is about ... " 23, 36.
"Totell what is the subject or topis of aplay, a picture, a story, a lecture,a book etc., forms part of the indivi-duals mastery of a natural language ...They are the starting point of mostrequesters when approaching a biblio-graphic information retrieval system orin a d ia lo~e with a librarian or docu-mentallst"-60.
To aid in such an indi-cative formulation that summarlses inits message what a particular body ofinformation is about, the title of thedocument or the raw specification ofthe readers' query or even sentence orsentences in the text of dictionary,glossary, abstract and even text-booksis taken as the starting point.
Eachof the specific subjects dealt withinthe document or specified in the rea-der's query or text statements aredetermined and expressed in naturallanguage.Let one of the names of subjectsbe expressed as "Re-tsnnlng of chrometanned leather using chestnut".
Eachof the component ideas such as the nameof the dlsclpllne (baser the coreobject of study (entity) etc., that areimplied in the expressed statement ofthe subject are explicitly stated toform an 'expressive title' 48, 50, 51i ow . "
as fo 1 s. In Leather Technology, re-tanning of chrome tanned leather byvegetable tanning using chestnut".The 'expressive title' is thenanalysed to identify the 'elementarycategories' and 'modifiers' and thecomponent terms are written down re-moving irrelevant auxiliaries, as aformallsed representation, followingthe principles of sequence of compo-nents 9, 49.
The analysed and forma-lised subJect-proposltlon is givenbelow:I Disclpllne) Leather Technology, Core Entity) Chrome Tanned Leather, Action on Entity) Re-tannlng , LB~7 Action based Modifler) VegetabIe-Tanning, /Using\] (Entity based Modi-fier) CheBtnut.The subject-proposltlon is thenmodulated by augmenting it by inter-polating and extrapolating as the casemay be, by the successive superordlna-tes of each elementary category byfinding out 'of which it is a species(type) or part'.
The synonymous termsif any are attached to the correspond-ing standard terms.
The modulatedsubject-proposition is given below:Leather Technology.
Leather, TannedLeather, Chrome-tanned Leather/.Chrome Leather.
Re-tanning (by)Vegetable Tanning (Using) Chestnut.The auxiliary words (even if rele-vant are removed from the subject-pro-position and phrases enclosed withinbrackets indicating 'role notions' or'role indicators' are inserted betweenthe kernel terms.
The resulting sub-Ject-proposition is given below:Leather Technology.
Leather (Typeof-) Tanned Leather (type of-)Chrome Tsnned Leather/Chrome Leather.
(process used-) Re-tannln~ (processused-~ Vegetable Tanning (agentused-) chestnut.The subject-proposltion is furtheranalysed to determine which terms areassociatively related to each otherspecifically.
For instance, in theabove subject-proposltlon 'chestnut' isrelated to 'Vegetable tanning' and also- 307-to 'Re-tanning', as an agent used inboth the processes.
'Chrome tannedleather' is related to 'Re-tannlng' asit admits of being re-tanned, and alsoto 'Vegetable tanning' as it admits ofbeing vegetable (re) tanned.
Afterthis analysis, the subject-propositionks formulated as a relation map showingthe 'links'.
The relation map for theabove subject-proposltlon is given inthe figure below:'$3' -- Generate NT relation with theimmediately succeeding term and genera-te a reverse BT relation.
No role in-dicator code is used (whole - partrelation).The codes for generating RT rela-tion and the associated computer mani-pulation are: '$1' -- Generate a RTrelation with the immediately succeed-inn term using the role indicator codeLEATHER TECHNOLOGY.
LEATHER (type of-) TANNEDIn the relation map given above,the dotted lines indicate NT/BT rela-tionship, continuous lines indicate RTrelationship and slash indicatessynonym/use relatlonship.The relationship between pairs ofterms NT or RT as indicated by dottedlines and continuous lines respectivelyas  shown in the example, are replacedby appropriate codes to form the inputto the thesaurus generation system.The codes used in the subject-propositions for generating entries fora thesaurus are of the following types:1 those that indicate which terms areto be related (codes for relatingterms) and whether the relation isNT or RT or SYN; and2 those that denote the role indi-cators.The codes for relating terms areof the following three types:1 those that indicate NT relation;2 those that indicate RT relation;and3 that which indicates Synonymousrelation.The codes for generating NT rela-tion and the associated computer mani-pulation are: '$2' -- Generate a NTrelation with the immediately succeed-ing term using the role indicator codeof the term being manipulated and gene-rate a reverse BT relation changing theposition of '-' in the role indicatorcode (genus-  species relation); andand generate a reverse RT relationchanging the position of '-' in therole indicator code; and '$5, $6, $7,$8, and S0' -- Generate a RT relationwith the immediately preceding termwith the same '$ code' taking the roleindicator code of the term being mani-pulated and generate a reverse RT rela-tion changing the position of '-' inthe role indicator code.The code for generating Synonymousrelation and the associated computermanipulation is: '/' -- Generate aSynonymous relation with the immediate-ly preceding term and generate a rever-se 'Use' relation.It is to be noted that the roleindicators are used specifically forfurther categorlsatlon of RTs, as theyare expected to be numerous.
Butrepresentation of genus-specles rela-tions could also be categorlsed toachieve better display format and forproper generation of coordinate RTsout of NTs to a particular term.
Thefollowing is an extract of role indi-cators used in our experimentalthesaurus on Leather Technology:O1 - Source of;07 - Property of;08 - Process used;12 - Agent used;13 - Device used;16 - Type of;19 - Constituent of.The subject-propositlon drawn asa relation map is augmented with the308codes described above to reflect thedifferent NT and RT links as givenbelow:$0 LEATHER TECHNOLOGY $4 LEATHER$2 (16-) ST TANNED LEATHER $2 (16-)$6 $7 CHROME TANNED LEATHER / CHROMELEATHER $0 (08-) $9 (08-) $6 (08-)RE-TANNING $7 (O8-) $6 (08-) VEGE-TABLE TANNING $I (12-) ST (12-)CHESTNUT.?
Computer Coding of Sub~ect-propositlonsAn assorted number of subject-propositions from a specific subjectfield, augmented with codes for relat-ing terms and codes for role indicatorsare read by a program 'CODEK'.
Eachof the unique terms in the subject-pro-positions is internally serial numbereduniquely and the respective terms inthe subject-propositions are replacedby their serial numbers.
As and whena term is encountered in a subject-pro-position, it is matched with existingterms and its seri8l n%/mber is pickedif the term is available, if not theterm is entered as the last entry withappropriate serial number and the givenserial number is replaced in the sub-Ject-proposition.
The term dictionarythus built, and the translated subject-propositions, are written separatelyas two different files for further pro-cessing.
A sample of the dictionary isgiven below:0001 SKIN0002 BEND0003 BELLY0004 OFFAL0005 HALF BACK0006 SPLIT0007 FLESH SPLITManipulation of Sub~ect-prcposltionsThe coded subject-propositionsare manipulated to generate term-palrs(terms denoted by serial numbers)following the links indicated by thecodes.
Once an entry is prepared itsreverse entry is automatically generat-ed by changing the position of the'lead term' and the 'context term'.
Inhierarchic relationships the relationNT is changed to BT in reversing theentry.
In RT entries the relation doesnot change in the reversal.
In thecase of entries having the role indi-cator codes, the position of '-' ischanged from prefix to suffix and viceversa as appropriate.
In the case ofSynonymous relationship indicated by'/' in the input, a SYN and a reverseUSE entries are generated.
Theseprocesses are done by a program named'GENTHES'.
The entries foe the thesau-rus at this stage are in the form ofserial numbers standing for the 'lead'and the 'context' terms with the roleindicator code in between them.
Theentries look as shown below:O009RT (O8-) 04350433RT (-O8) OO090010NT(16-)00110011BT (-16)0010Generation of Coordinate Term-palrsThe term-palrs so for generatedare the hierarchic and non-hlerarchicassociative types.
Terms coordinate toa particular term are not present inthem.
In order to generate coordinateentries, the generated entries aresorted in ascending sequence so that,'context' serial numbers for the same'lead term' (having the same serialnumber in the lead term position andhaving the same role indicator code)that are NTs, are formed as a separatetable and coordinate RT term-palrs aregenerated among them.
These coordinateentries are merged with the earliergenerated entries, and passed as a filefor further processing.
The generationof coordinate entries is done by aprogram named 'GENCORD'.Translation of Thesaurus EntrlesThe file of generated entries forthesaurus is retranslated back intonatural language terms by a programnamed 'TKANSLAT'.
The term dictionarycreated as a file by the program CODERis read together with role indicatorcodes and their corresponding descrip-tive phrases.
The file of thesaurusentries, passed on by the programGENCORD, is read record by record.
Theserial number of both the 'lead' and'context' terms are translated intonatural language terms using the termdictionary.
The role indicator code isalso translated into the correspondingdescriptive phrase.
The translatedentries are written as a file forfurther sorting and printing.Translation to Different LanguaKe ~In order to translate the gene-rated thesaurus into another languagethe term dictionary and the descriptivephrases denoting the role indicatorcodes are replaced by equivalent termsin the required language.
Incompatibi-lity of terms though pose some problemsit is possible to form these two files309easily 24 .
But care must be taken tochoose the correct standard terms andsynonyms.
The term dictionary ifdumped out has an indication as towhich terms are taken as synonyms,which must be taken care of in prepar-ing the 'translation table'.Sorting and Printing ThesaurusThe file of thesaurus entries innatural language terms, output of theprogram 'TRANSLAT', is sorted alpha-betically using the SORT program avai-lable in the computer system.
It isthen printed out in double columnformat with proper indention for 'lead'term, relation, role indicator, and'context term'.Programs Developed for Thesauru sThe programs developed for gene-rating thesaurus as outlined in thispaper are written in COBOL endASSEMBLER languages for IBM System/370series computers and require a 256Kpartition, two tape drives, one diskdrive and a line printer.
The programshave been used to generate a thesaurusof Leather Technology terms using testdata of about 1500 subject-propositions.The number of unique terms were 1851 ,the total number of entries were 13,717.The thesaurus generation work tookabout 3 months of input preparation bytwo persons and lOmln 26.73secs of CPUtime at an IBM System/370-159.
Theprograms were kept as load modules andwere executed.ConclusionThe study of linguistics ingeneral, and the theories of universalgrammar and structure of languages inparticular, provide a frame-work forthe development of scientific languages- artificial languages for specificpurposes - relevant to applications inthe different links in the'communica-tion chain' that links creators ofinformation and users of the same.
Thedevelopment of the theory of SubjectIndexing Languages and its applicationsin the field of information storage andretrieval is a clear indication of thisdevelopment.Bi bllographical ReferencesAuguston, J G and Minker, Jack.Deriving term relations for a cor-pus by graph theoretical clusters.
(J1 of Amer Soc for Inf Sc.
V 21,no 2; 1970, Mar; p 101-111).2 Balasubramanian, V. Computer-basedthesaurus generation from modu-lated subject structures.
(Guide:F J Devadason).
Research Project.DRTC, 1978.3 Bhattacharyya, G. A generaltheory of SIL, POPSI and Classau-rus: Results of current classifi-cation research in India.
Paperpresented at the InternationalClassification Research Forum,organlsed by SIG(CR) of AmericanSociety for Information Science.Minneapolis.
Oct 1979.4 ---.
Fundamentals of subject index-ing languages.
In Neelameghan, A,Ed.
Ordering systems for global~format lon  networks: Proceedingsof the Third International StudyConference on ClassificationResearch, Bombay, India.
6-11 Jan1975.
FID/CR publication 553.DRTC, Bangalore.
1979. p 83-99.5 ---.
---.
---.
.... ---.
p87 .6 ---.
---.
---.
---.
---.
p 88.7 ---.
Intellectual foundation ofPOPSI.
(mimeographed).
DRTC,Bangalore.
1979.8 ---.
POPSI: Its fundamentals andprocedure based on a generaltheory of subject indexing langua-ge.
(~ib Sc with slant Doc.
V 16,no 1; 1979, Mar; p 1-34).9 .... ---.
---.
.... ---.
p 23-24.10 Biller, H and Neuhold, E J. Seman-tics of data bases: the semanticsof data models.
(Inf Systems.
v 3;1978; p 11-30).11 Chomsky, Noam.
Aspects of thetheory of syntax.
The MIT Press.1965.
p 35.12 ---.
Reflections on language.Fontana.
Collins.
1976. p 4.13 Ciganik, Marek.
Meta informa-tional approach to the theory ofintegrated information retrievalsystems.
(Inf Processing and Mgt.v 11; 1975; p 1-10).14 ---.
Meta informational in actionin the process of the automaticsemantic analysis.
(Inf Process-Ing.
d Mgt v 15; 1979; p 196 - 198)~ n ?15 Costello, J C. A basic theory ofroles as syntactical controldevices in coordinate indexes.
(J1 of Chem Doc.
v 4; 1964;p 116-123).310 --16 Costello, J C. Coordinate index-ing.
Rutgers, the State Univer-sity.
New Jersey.
1966. p 14-15.17 Devadason, F J.
Using taxonomy ofconcepts by subject specialistsfor thesaurus construction: A casestudy.
DRTC Annual Seminar.
v 15;1977, Dec; p 179.18 Documentation Research and Train-ing Centre.
Seminar on thesaurusin information systems.
Bangalore,India.
I-5 Dec 1975.
315 p.19 Fillmore, D J.
"The case for case".In Bach, Emmon and Harms, R T,~ .
Universals in linguisticEeory.
Holt, Rinehart and Wins-ton Inc. New York.
1968.20 Foskett, A C. The Subject approachto information.
Clive Bingeley,London.
1977. p 387, 412, 426.21 Foskett, D J.
Systems theory andits relevance to documentaryclassification.
(Intl Classifica-tion.
v 7, no 1; 1980; p 2).22 Gilchrlst, A. Thesaurus in retrie-val.
ASLIB, London.
1971.23 Hutchlns, W J.
The concept of'aboutness' in subject indexing.
(Asllb Proceedings.
y 30, no 5;1978, May; p 172-181).24 Ilion, A.
Creation of thesauri forEuronet.
In Overcoming the langu-age barr ie~ Third European Con-gress on Information Systems andNetworks.
Luxembourg, 5-6 May1977.
v 1.
Ed 2.
K G Saur, NewYork 1978. p 426.25 ---.
---.
---.
---.
---.
p 427.26 International Atomic Energy Agency.INIS: Thesaurus.
IAEA-INIS-13.IAEA.
Vienna.
1970. p 5?27 Ivanova, N S. Automatic compilingof thesauri on the basis of sta-tistical data.
7th Annual Meetingof the Committee for InternationalCooperation in Information Retrie-val among Examining Patent OfficesStockholm, 18-29 Sept 1967.ICIREPAT, BIRPI, Geneva.
1968.p 92-107.28 Janos, Jirl.
Theory of functionalsentence perspective and itsapplication for the purpose ofautomatic extracting.
(Inf Processand Mat.
v 15, no I; 1979; p 22).29 Jardlne, N and Van RiOsbergen, C J.The use of hierarchic clusteringin information retrieval.
(InfStorage and Retrieval.
v 7; 1971;p 217-240).30 Jones, Karen Sparck.
Synonymy andsemantic classification.
Ph.D.Thesis, University of Cambridge.1964.
p 1.7-1.9.31 ---.
---.
---.
---.
---.
p 3.8.32 ---.
---.
---.
---.
---.
p 6.21.33 Kim, Chal and Kim, Soon D. Consen-sus Vs frequency: An emprical in-vestigation of the theories foridentifying descriptors in design-ing retrieval thesauri.
(InfProcessing and Mat.
v 13, no 4;1977; p 253-258).34 Leech, G N. Towards a semanticdescription of Engllsh.
Bloomlng-ton, Indiana University Press.1970.Maltra, RanJlta.
Semi-automatlcmethod of generating mlcro-thesau-rus.
Project Report.
DRTC,Bangalore.
1977.36 March, M E. On indexing, retrievaland the meaning of about.
(J1 ofAmer Soc for Inf Sc.
v 28, no 1;1977, Jan; P 38-43).37 Mcneill, D. Empiricist and natu-rlst theories of language: GeorgeBerkeley and Samuel Bailey in the2Oth century.
In Koestler, A andSmythles, J R~.
Beyond reduct-ionlsm: New pe~pectives in thelife sciences.
Alpback Symposium,1968.
Hutchinson, 1969, p 291-292.38 Montgomery, Christine A. Linguis-tics and information science.
(J1of Amer Soc for Inf Sc.
v 23,no 3; 1972, June; p 214-215).39 Minker, Jack, Wilson, G A andZimmerman, B H. An evaluation ofquery expansion by the additionof clustered terms for a documentretrieval system.
(Inf Storageand Retrieval.
v 8; 1972; p 329-348).40 National Academy of Sciences, Nat-ional Research Council, AutomaticLanguage Processing AdvisoryCommittee.
(Chairman: Pierce,John R).
Language and machines:Computers in translation andlingulstlcs-A report.
NationalResearch Council Publication 1416,Washington D C. 196b.
p 30.41 Neelameghan, A.
Absolute syntaxand structure of an indexing andswitching language.
In Abovecited ref.no.
4, p 1~.42 .... ---.
---.
---.
---.
p 173.43 ---.
Sequence of component ideas35311-in a subject.
(Lib Sc with slantto Doc.
v 8; 1971; p 523-534).44 Pickford, A G A.
Some problems ofusing an unstructured informationretrieval language in a co-ordl-nate indexing system.
(Aslib Pro-ceedings, v 23, no 3; 1971, Mar;p 133-138).45 Ranganathan, S R. Colon Classifi-cation.
Ed I, 1933. .
.
Ed 6,1960.
Asia Publishing House,Bombay.46 ---.
Hidden roots of classifica-tion.
(Inf Storage and Retrieval.v 3; 1967; p 399-410).47 .... Prolegomena to library classi-fication.
Ed I, 1937.
Ed 2, 1957.Asia Pub House, Bombay.48 ---.
---.
Ed 3.
~sia Pub House,Bombay.
1967. p 86-87.49 ---.
---.
---v ---.
---.
p 395-434.50 .... ---.
---.
---.
---.
p 404-405.51 ---.
---.
---.
---.
---.
p 439.52 ---.
.... ---.
---.
---.
p 579-582.53 Ravichandra ~ao, I K. Semi-auto-matic method of construction ofthesaurus.
In Above cited ref.no.18, p B16-~30.54 Rolling, L N. Compilation ofthesauri for use in computersystems.
(Inf Storage and Retrl.v 6, no 4; 1970, June; p 341-350).55 Sager, Naomi.
Computational lin-guistics: Steps towards applica-tion.
Paper prepared for theWorkshop in Linguistics and Inf-ormation Science.
FID/LD.
Stock-holm, 3-5 May 1976. p 18.56 Salton, G. Automatic informationorganisation mud retrieval.McGraw Hill, New York.
1968.p 40-48,57 Sasmori, Katsunosuke.
Software  esign for vocabulary control DOCTOR) system, In North, JeanneB, Ed.
The information conscioussoc~ty:  Proceedings of the Ameri-can Society for Information Sci-ence.
v 7; 33rd Annual Meeting.Philadelphia.
11-15 Oct 1970.ASIS, 1970. p 195-197.58 Schwanhausser, G. An automaticallyproduced thesaurus.
In Above" cited ref.
no.
18. p ~-B15.59 Shephard, Michael and Watters,Caroline.
Computer generation ofthesaurus.
(Lib Sc with slant toDoc.
v 12; 1975; Paper E).60 Spang-Hanssen, H. Are classifica-tion systems similar to naturallanguages?
In Above cited ref.no.
4. p 157-Tanimoto, T T. An elementarymathematical theory of classifica-tion and prediction.
IBM ResearchYorktown Heights.
New York.
1998.62 Thompson, David A. Interfacedesign for an interactive informa-tion retrieval system: A litera-ture survey and a research system.
(J1 of Amer Soc for Inf Sc.
v 22,no 6; 1971, Nov-Dec; p 361-373).63 Vickery, B C. On retrieval systemtheory.
Ed 2.
Butterworths,London.
1965. p 58-60, 97.64 Wall, Eugene.
Symbiotic develop-ment of thesauri and informationsystems: A case history.
(J1 ofAmer Soc for Inf Sc.
v 26, no 2;1975, Mar-Apr; p 71-79).65 Wolf-Terroine, M, Rimbert, D andRouault, B.
Improved statisticalmethods for automatic construc-tion of a medical thesaurus.
(Methods of Inf in Medicine.
v 11,no 2; 1972, Apt; p 104-113).66 Yu, Clement T. A methodology forthe construction of term classes.
(Xnf Storage and Retrieval.
v 10;1974; p 243-251).61312! ubJect I~  o~n%?~!tl-<ICODER \[ .~-rm ' I SORTGENCORD,,,I SORTPRINT t ionsIFTRANSLAT I| rSYSTEMS FLOW CHART313-AMMON ItlM I-YI~RJ~I~J3 ANILINE JY~AMMf~NIUM HYOKJ~I JEBTRECUG ~N~ &~?
4I"RT ( -A~ENI  U~ J lUNF.AL~ h~l@/CQJ~J l IA,f ~ I JEAS~SCOld;4 ~Y)RJKI , JEAMMON IUM ~I~O,~PH,~ EBrBATIN,~ MAIIE~I~LRT | COJ~|  IAi'E I~EA$tAMMCNLJM J rlLJ~ | J~EAMMENIJN ~UL~=A 6.EORIC AGI Jb lY~LG A~| J  V ICKE,W ~ NJ :dIE  C, AL CAN LTRIt.
I~W J AfdDOG M~Jk~ORENC,tE~  NZYM~ lUCOi ELACTIC, AG,~MIXEt) J k?
a~.$~PAN i~ T \ [ IBliPS| ~1SOOlU4 ~I~,,,N.FATEI C1O J,4 d I ;HK I4A IE  OUR 4ulLA~ UL I 14JW I'~ AT ~RA4YEASlEFFLU~IIRT (COJK~ I |AT c~ I JEAS IACIDCFRCMIJMDYEFIBREFY DRO~E,~ ~Lr ;  I J~LIMEPIEME4TRES IN$CLU3~.~ P~Uf.=ISCLVE.~IIt Jc$?NlAiAMMONIIJ~ SULFATeBTRTBATING 4~TERI~LDEL|MING(C~OR~I~ATE IJEA~ lAMNON~UN CHLJ~ IDEAMMONIUNI PHJ~ )HATEBORIC ACIOBUTYRIC aC'IJCHICKEN ~a'4J~ ECO~ TA},~CUTRILIN BATEDOG MANUREDRENCHESENZYMEGL UC3 SELACTI C AC I (.1MIXED L)RY BaTEPANCREATINPEPSINSOOI U~ d,I SdL F~ TE$ODI U~ ~I C. HRJ ' t  aT ~SOUR ~OLAS~SULPHURWHEAT B~a'~YEASTAMYL ASEBTENZYNERT (COL|ROINRTE 13EAS)ASPERGILLU~ J~ IZaEKERAIINAS EPAPAI~ENZYMERT ?
|COL)R~INAT~ IOn.ASBAClr E~ I ~L E',tLf4EFUNGAL E,NZY~EPANCREATIC E~I_/Y4EPLANT E;~ LY ~t EPROIE3LCTIC E~ZY 4FAN~E OF WEA#E|-PR(JP E~Tf JFJFIBREANI k INERT t-A ;E',; I USe J ~.FINISHINGANILINE DYETHESAURUS SAMPLE PAGE--314-
