TOPIC-COMMENT STRUCTURE OF TEXTS(AND ITS CONTRIBUT ION TO THE AUTOMATIC  PROCESSING OF TEXTS)Ferenc  K ie fe  rKVAL ,  S tockho lm,116  45, S6dermalmstorg  8Abst rac tIn genera l ,  top ic  is in fo rmal ly  de f ined  as  thatpar t  o f  the sentence  wh ich  the sentence  is aboutand  comment  as  what  is sa id  in the sentence .Th is  is, of  course ,  not  a fo rmal  de f in i t ion  butso  fa r  noone  has  succeeded to prov ide  a v iab lefo rmal  de f in i t ion  fo r  these  not ions .
In theana lys i s  of sentences  and  texts  these  not ionscan  never the less  be  used  w i th  cons iderab leSuccess .Typically, topics are noun phrases and com-ments  are open sentences (that is, sentencescontaining a variable).
For  example, thesentence John is writing a letter is about Johnand it says that he is writing a letter.
Formal -ly,(i) Johnx: (x is writing a letter)where John is a variable binding expression andis writing a letter is an open sentence inwhich the variable x is bound by John.A sentence may have more  than one topic.
Thesentence John saw Mary  in the garden may be astatement about John and Mary  and what is saidabout them is that he saw her in the garden.Formally,(2) \ [ John  x ~ Marry \ ] :  (x saw y in the garden)If a sentence  has only one topic  this topic  isvery  often (but not  a lways)  the sub jec t  of thesentence .
Cons ider  the sentence  John wants  tosee  Mary  with heavy  s t ress  on John (the sen-tence can, fo r  example ,  be cons idered  as ananswer  to the quest ion  Who wants  to see Mary?
)This  sentence  is ev ident ly  about  Mary  and saysthat John wants  to see  her .Texts  a re  bu i l t  up f rom sentences  and the top ic -comment  s t ruc ture  of a text  wi l l  cons i s t  of thetop ic -comment  s t ruc tures  of its const i tuentsentences .
The top ic -comment  s t ruc ture  oftexts  is, however ,  not s imp ly  a cumulat ivefunct ion  of the top ic -comment  s t ruc tures  of theconst i tuent  sentences .
I sha l l  p resent  in mypaper  a ser ies  of observat ion  concern ing  thetop ic -comment  s t ruc ture  of  texts  on the bas i sof a lega,  text  (Rules  of the Arb i t ra t ion  Ins t i -tute of the S tockho lm Chamber  of Commerce) .
(i) Each  text  has  a set  of  te rms wh ich  are  notde f ined  (not  in t roduced)  in the text: they  aretaken  for  g ranted .
These  te rms be long  to thes tock  of common knowledge w i th  respect  to thegiven text (SCK).
SCK defines the f rame of thetext (or its scenario).
Thus, for example, inthe text in question the following terms belongto SCK:  Stockholm Chamber  of Commerce ,The Swedish Law of Arbitration, the parties,the arb i t ra tor (s ) ,  the (a rb i t ra l )  t r ibuna l ,  thec la imant ,  the respondent ,  the request  fora rb i t ra t ion .
It is a character i s t i c  feature  oftexts  that  top ics  be long ing  to SCK are  empty(non- in format ive)  top ics .
If such  a top ic  isfound it shou ld  in genera l  be  rep laced  by  amore  in fo rmat ive  top ics .
The  la t ter  can  bereconst ructed  on  the bas is  of  the preced ingtext.
For  example ,(3) Each  par ty  sha l l  be  g iven  an  oppor tun i ty  tos ta te  h is  v iews .Taken  in i so la t ion ,  this sentence  cou ld  beana lyzed  as  hav ing  the top ic  each  par ty  and  thecomment  it sha l l  be  g iven  .
.
.
In the presentcontext ,  however ,  the sentence  is about  thein terpretat ion  and  cor rect ion  of an  award .Sentence  (3) must  thus  be  reconst ructed  as  (4).
(4) Each  par ty  sha l l  be  g iven  an  oppor tun i ty  tos ta te  h is  v iews  on  the award  (or  the in ter -p re ta t ion  of the award) .The  top ic  of  (6) is, then,  the v iews  on  theaward  and  it is s ta ted  about  this top ic  that  eachpar ty  sha l l  be  g iven  an  oppor tun i ty  to expressit.
(ii) In several cases the topic of the sentenceis given by the heading of the whole paragraph.On  the surface the topic of sentence (5) isthe Institute.
(5) The Institute may request a party toamplify any submission to the Institute.However,  as indicated by the heading of theparagraph, what is at stake here is the amplifi-cation.
The question which one would as about(5) is (6):(6) What about  the ampl i f i ca t ion  of a submis -s ion?240(iii) Typically, the topic of a sentence is adefinite noun phrase and a term introduced inthe comment  is an indefinite noun phrase.Taken  in isolation this observation may lead toincorrect analyses.
Consider, for example,(7) The claimant shall pay a registration feeand both parties shall deposit with theInstitute a sum to cover the costs of theproceedings.In the given context, this sentence is not aboutthe claimant and the parties but rather aboutthe registration fee and the deposit.
(iv) Conditional sentences raise specialproblems.
Take(8) If an arbitrator appointed by a party dies,Such a sentence may be an answer  to thequestion (9).
(9) What  happens if an arbitrator appointed bya party dies ?Formally, conditional sentences can often beanalyzed as implications: A D B.
In suchsentences, as shown by (8) and (9), the if-clause (=A) is the topic and the comment  is thatthis clause (i.e.
the underlying proposition)entails the consequent clause (i.e.
the underly-ing proposition), that is, we get the structure(lO):(10) Ax: (x  ~ B)In connection with if-topics several problemsmust  be solved: the function of if-topics intexts, the domain  of if-topics, the internalstructure of if-topics.
Each  of these prob lemsshall be given ample consideration in my paper.On  the basis of the above observations I amgoing to stipulate a general strategy for thedetermination of the top ic -comment  structureof texts.
In addition, I shall briefly report onan experiment, made at KVAL ,  concerning theimplementation of a mode l  based on topic-comment  structure.
In this mode l  questionsare answered  by means  of topics.
Finally, Ishall present some arguments  in favor of theapproach chosen.241 -
