MORPHOLOGICAL ASPECT OF JAPANESE LANGUAGE PROCESSINGKosho Shudo, Toshiko NaraharaDepartment of ElectronicsFukuoka UniversityIi, Nanakuma, Nishi-kuFukuoka-shi, 814 Japanand Sho YoshidaDepartment of ElectronicsKyushu University6-10-1, Hakozaki, Higashi-kuFukuoka-shi, 812 JapanA comprehensive grammatical model produced foranalyzing the agglutinated structure whichcharacterizes the Japanese language is pre-sented.
This model, which includes extensivelyidiomatic postpositional expressions as termi-nals, is quite effective for the developmentof the Japanese language processor receptiveto a reasonable variety of sentential forms andapplicable to relatively wide fields.IntroductionThe following fundamental problems are stilllatent in most present systems of the naturallanguage processing: (i)how to enable the systemto have a higher quality processing that ren-ders the output more feasible; (ii)how tobroaden the applicable field of the system; and(iii)how to allow the system to accept more"natural" input sentences, including miscella-neous linguistic constructions.
In order toremedy these problems, we will need not only faradvanced A.I.
researches on the knowledge repre-sentation or deduction, but also more elaboratestudies on the surface structures of naturalsentences from the engineering viewpoints.Among other things, the requirement for the lin-guistic approach on the engineering side isquite urgent for Japanese language processing,since we have no Japanese grammar which isextensive and definite enough for solving, espe-cially, problem (iii).The authors have been developing a Japaneselanguage parser for a Japanese-Englishtranslation system on the following standpoints.
(1)~de coverage of the input forms; we aim ata system which is powerful enough to acceptwith less exceptions the sentential formswhich appear in the actual, colloquial andwritten texts (e.g.
non-pre-edited sentencesin technical papers).
(2)Two-phase parsing~ The system first analyzesthe local expression which is the syntacticaland semantical unit constituting immediatelythe input sentence, and then analyzes thewhole sentence by detecting the relationshipsbetween the units.
The first phase, whichcorresponds to the morphological phase in theordinary parser of the European language, isdesigned for analyzing not only the word'sinflection but the "agglutinated" structurecharacterizing the Japanese language.We attach much importance to the first phasewhich has a great influence on the overallperformance of the system.
(3)Elaborate preparation for the first phase; Inthe first phase, we adopt an elaborategrammatical model that prescribes theinternal structure of the above-mentionedunits in detail.
The extensive enumerationof postpositional expressions carried outin the model, among others, is quiteeffective for solving the problem (iii),since they determine the syntactical andsemantical "framework" of the Japanesesentence.
The inflection of the word canalso be manipulated almost without exceptionsin a relatively simple way in this model.
(4)Matching of the first phase and higher phases;Most of the atomic postpositional expressionsenumerated in the model are idiomatic oneswhich should be treated without decomposinginto words because of their definite andunitary meanings.
This fact yields a goodmatching of the first phase and the highersemantical phases.
(5)Disambiguation in the first phase; A certainpart of the polysemy of the postpositionalexpression can be reduced by the restrictionfor the co-occurence on the neighboringpositions in the sentence.
Our grammar forthe first phase is designed to carry outdisambiguation of this type.
This is basedon the idea that the syntactical andsemantical structure ought to be dis-ambiguated as early and as much as possiblefrom the viewpoint of the system's totalefficiency.In this paper, the above mentioned grammaticalmodel for the first phase of parsing, which maybe called "pseudo-morphological" phase, is shownand the experimental system developed for theverification of its validity is outlined.
Aftershowing some operational examples and the resultof the experiment, we conclude that our model isquite effective for Japanese language processingfrom the standpoints mentioned above.Japanese sentence, E-bunsetsuThe information to be extracted from the inputsentence by the parser can be generallyclassified into following three types:(a)the information of the concept which isordinarily provided by the conceptual word(e.g.
noun, verb, adjective);(b)the information of the relationship betweenconcepts;(c)the supplementary information such as of"tense","aspect","mood",etc.Japanese is an agglutinative language and isvery far from European languages from structuralviewpoints, i.e.
the information of type(b) or(c) is ordinarily given by the annex-expressionagglutinated postpositionally to the conceptualexpression which gives the information of type(a).
We call the compound which consists of theannex- and conceptual expression E-bunsetsu%.The information of type(b) is given as thedependency relation, called kakariuke-relationbetween E-bunsetsus.
A sentence consistsimmediately of E-bunsetsus positioned in arelatively free order except for a few con-straints "\['j~.
Because of this structural feature,we adopt the two-phase approach for the parsingof the Japanese sentence: the first phase foranalyzing each E-bunsetsu; the second, fordetecting the kakariuke-relational structure ofthe sentence.It is apparent that the extensive characteri-zation of the E-bunsetsu yields the widecoverage of input sentential forms to the system.Specifically, the extensive enumeration of theannex-expressions will drastically broaden therange of acceptable input forms, since they makethe syntactic and semantic "framework" of thesentence.
However, the annex- or conceptualexpression may itself be a compound of atomicexpressions and is too multiformed to beenumerated extensively.From these points of view, we have constructeda grammatical model for analyzing the E-bunsetsuby, first, enumerating extensively atomicexpressions excepting most of the conceptualones that are quite numerous; secondly, classi-fying them by the syntactic and partiallysemantic functions; thirdly, prescribing theconnectabil ity rules of atomic expressionswithin the E-bunsetsu.Atomic ExpressionsThe notion of "atomic expression" is theextended one of "word" so as to include theidiomatic word-string which has the unitary,self-supported meaning and the definitesyntactic function.
Though we often encountersuch idiomatic strings in the sentence of every-day use, it has not been clarified exhaustivelyThe notion of "bunsetsu" in the conventionalschool grammar is well known as the unit forsentence construction.
However, the unitarylocal structure in the real sentence used inevery day life is often too multiformed to beanalyzed with it.
The notion of "E-bunsetsu",which is a fully extended version of "bunsetsu",was devised from the standpoints mentioned inthe previous chapter.%%When we let a string, EB l EB 2 ''' EB n be asentence~ 'each E-bunsetsucEBi(iSi<n) must dependon only one of EBi+i,' '?,EB n without passing anyEBj(i<j) that governs at least one of EB l, ''',EBi- I.
Moreover, EB n must be predicative.how many are needed for building up thenatural sentence and how they can be used.We have singled out the atomic expressionsextensively excepting most of conceptual onesfrom approximately 12,000 sentences of technicalpapers and text-books of the senior high schools.Their rough categorization is sho~1 in thefollowing.
(The number of the expressions isgiven in parentheses.
)Annex-expressionsAtomic annex-expressions are classified into twokinds: relational expressions which provide theinformation of type(b); and co-predicativeexpressions which provide the information oftype(c).Relational Expressions(575).
While thetypical example of the relational expression isthe particle in the conventional grammar, eightypercent of the relational expressions areidiomatic word-strings.
For example, the word-string,'ni tsui te' is atomic and relationalbecause it has a proper, undividable and self-supported meaning equivalent to that of the pre-position,'about' in English in such context as'Mary ni tsui te hanasu'('talk about Mary').
(The original meaning of the verb,'tsuku' isalmost missing in the context.
)The atomic annex-expressions can be dividedroughly into ten categories according to theirabilities to indicate the kakariuke-relation.We denote these categories by RNpi,RNP2,RNp3,Rppi,Rpp2 ,Rpp3,RNNi ,RNN2 ,RNN3and RpN.
RNp I ,RNp 2 or RNp 3, for example, is a category ofexpressions which indicate the dependency of thenominal E-bunsetsu, N on the predicative E-bunsetsu; P. 'hi tsui te' mentioned above isincluded in RNp 1 .Co-predicative Expressions(348).
The auxil-iary verb in the conventional school grammar istypically co-predicative but ninety percent ofthe co-predicative expressions singled out areidiomatic.
For example, the word-string,'ta houga yoi',which is equivalent to 'had better' inEnglish provides the information of the modality.These can be divided into seven categories,i.e.hnpl ,Anpz ,Anp3 ,Appl ,App2 ,App3 and App~ ac-cording to the functions of the connection andwhether they can inflect or not.
Appl, for ex-ample, represents a category of inflectableexpressions each of which yields a predicativeexpression, p by connecting(agglutinating) to apredicative expression, p. The atomic expres-sion, 'ta hou ga yoi' mentioned above is in App I ?Conjunctive Expressions(122)Besides the traditional conjunction, many con-junctive, idiomatic expressions have beensingled out as atomic ones.
For example, thestring 'sikasi nagara', wich is equivalent to'however' in English is conjunctive and atomic.The conjuctive expression is not annexational,but offers the information of type(b).
Thereobserved two categories: one, denoted by C I, ofexpressions which can indicate both of therelation between two sentences and the relation- -2between two E-bunsetsus; the other ~, denoted byC 2, of expressions which indicate exclusivelythe relation between two sentences.Suffixal Expressions(403)The conceptual expressions are too numerous tobe enumerated exhaustively.
In addition, it isdifficult in the present state to settle theextensive rules for constructing the conceptualcompound.We have singled out only the suffixal constit-uents of the conceptual compounds that are usedvery frequently and have definite syntactic andsemantic functions.
These are classifiedroughly into seven categories, i.e.
Snpl,Snp 2,Spp, Snnl,Snn2,Snn s and Spn, by their functions.For example, Snp I , that includes such a stringas 'de aru' being used quite frequently, is acategory of expressions each of which consti-tutes a predicative conceptual expression,p whensuffixed to a nominal conceptual expression,n.The conceptual compound of quantitative,temporal or locational meaning, e.g.
'3 zi 15hun' ('a quarter past three ~) is sometimesexceptionally easy to be decomposed into con-stituents.
A good many suffixal constituentsof these compounds are included in Snn I .Adverbial Expressions(262)The adverbial expressions fall into two cate-gories, D 2, for the expression which is alwaysused in cooperation with some other specificexpression and D I, for the rest.
For example,'kanarazusimo ''' (nai)' ('not necessarily') isin D2.Adnominal Expressions(165)The adnominal expression, such as 'subete no'('all') is similar to the adjective except thatit is uninflective and used always attributivelybeing located ahead of the nominal E-bunsetsu tobe modified.
The category of these expressionsis denoted by T.Structure of E-bunsetsuThe structure of the E-bunsetsu can be charac-terized in the form of "transition net", sinceit has no complex embedded structures.
Ourstructural characterization is based on pre-scribing the connection rules of the atomicexpressions within an E-bunsetsu.
It is shownin two stages in this chapter.General Structure of E-bunsetsuThe general structure of E-bunsetsu is shown inFig.l using the above-mentioned categories andthree traditional ones, Mi,M2 and Y,representingfor the noun, verbal-noun(i.e, noun calledinitial )node -~~g.~.~t 'i{t~6U~',<~k~< IE~~ I~< ~1.~9 \] :~to~Fig.
1.
Connection Graph Describing the General Structure of E-bunsetsu--3--"sahen-meishi") and yougen(i.e, verb, adjective,adjective verb), respectively.
In Fig.l, nodesrepresent the categories and arrows denote thatexpressions in starting nodes can be immediatelyfollowed(agglutinated) by those in ending nodes.The E-bunsetsu can be analyzed, though roughly,by starting at the initial node and tracing apath in the figure.
Each node is the acceptablenode for the E-bunsetsu.
The conceptualexpression corresponds to a path terminating ata node located above the dotted line.
The syn-tactic and semantic function of the E-bunsetsucan be estimated by recognizing the terminatingnode in the path.Generality of Characterization.
In order toverify the generality of the characterizationshown in Fig.l, we have inspected approximately1,500 actual sentences in technical papers bysegmenting each sentence into E-bunsetsusapplying the above rules.
Table 1 shows theresults of the inspection.
From this, it cameout that our enumeration of annex-expressionsis almost sufficient and all of the sentencesinspected can be segmented into E-bunsetsus ifwe newly register and classify the expressionsmissing in the enumeration into existingcategories.
In addition, it turned out that theidea of the E-bunsetsu~ which elucidates aTable I.
Results of Inspectionnumber of atomic expressionsmissing in the enumeration:annex- 6conjunctive 21suffixal 0adverbial 49adnominal 25unclassif iable 0number of:sentences , n 1,532bunsetsus , nl 23,432E-bunsetsus , n2 20,118nl/n 15.3n2/n 13.1(nl-n2)/nl 0.14total appearances of:annex-expressions , n3 10,124compound annex-expressions , n4 1,655n4/n3 0.16Table 2.
Paradigmtypeformcodenegative-con- adverbial standard adnominal subjunctivej ectural form form form form form1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8imperative stemform9 A B5-vowel,I-type5-vowel,T-type5-vowel,Q-type5-voweltype1-voweltype >S-typeK-typeW-typeadj ective-type?
NA-typeu NO-type> e-typeT-typeD-type0123456789ABCDa a o i i u u e*a a o i t u u e,a a o i q u u ea a o i i u u ee e yo e e ru ru rei e lyo i i uru uru ureo o oyo i i uru uru urewa wa o i t u u eku karo ku kat i i kereni nani noni earo a aaro at aeeeeroirooieyoeyoex.kikex.okorex.sinex.kesex.tozi~X.Sex .kex.tigaex.yoex.kireiex.hodoex.onaziex.
tex.dlarger structure than a "bunsetsu", is quiteeffective for reducing the load of the secondphase of the parser because it causes fourteenpercent decrease of the number of immediateconstituents of the sentence.
Moreover, therate of appearance of the atomic relationalexpressions which are originally compound wasfound to be sixteen percent.
These facts assurethe generality of the characterization to areasonable extent.Detailed Structure of E-bunsetsuIn the course of the development of the naturallanguage system, it is a fundamental and crucialproblem how much the grammatical rule should beelaborate or how much the syntactic and semanticstructure of the sentence should be disambigu-ated within the grammatical phase of theprocessing.
We think it profitable forincreasing the total efficiency of the system todisambiguate them as much and as early aspossible.
From this point of view/ we tryto do it in the phase of analyzing theE-bunsetsu by refining the characterization ofFig.l without destroying its grammaticalfeatures and generality.Inflectional Endings.
The word-inflectionof Japanese language is closely related to theagglutination of words.
The connectionrepresented in Fig.1 by the asterisked arrowshould be restricted by the inflectional typeand inflectional form of the preceding expres-sion, which is inflectable.While subcategorizing the inflectable expres-sions by their inflectional types, we gaverespective expressions in the ending nodes ofthe asterisked arrows a dictionary entrydenoting what inflectional types and forms itcan be connected to.
The inflectional form isknown by detecting the ending.
Table 2 showsthe paradigm.
The asterisked letter in thetable is a euphonical one by which the finalletter of the stem may be replaced.
'~' repre-sents an empty ending.This paradigm (and the experimental system de-scribed in the next chapter) is based on a wayof expressing Japanese characters by Englishletters which is devised from the viewpoints ofmechanical processing.Subcategorization.
We subcategorized some ofthe annex-expressions by their detailed aggluti-native functions using a formal algorithm ~.It should be noted that the homonymous expres-sion whose meanings have individual aggluti-native functions was categorized duplicativelyinto different categories according torespective functions.
These expressions'Ti.e.
to partition the set,E=RNp~RNP2URppiURpp2ORpp 3 by the following relation, ~ intoequivalence classes.for Vx ,y~E (xRy ~.
for VWl,Wz~E ((x*wl+-~Y*Wl) A (w2*x ~+ w2~Y))), where a*b ~.
"a canbe agglutinated by b"Table 3.
Outline of Subcategorizationoriginal number of number ofcategory expressions subcategoriesrelationalco-predicativesuffixalRNPi 153RNP2 63RNP3 13RNNI 1RNNz 118RNN3 4RPN 40RPPi 149Rpp2 1Rpp3 38Anpl 37Anp2 4Anp3 2App I 298App2 15App3 4App4 1Snnl 288Snn2 6Snn3 3Spn 92Snpl iiSnp2 1Spp 2conjunctiveDi adverbialD2adnominal Tnoun MIM2yougen YC1 35C2 87180821652431435*2*12"25i04*2*5(14")meanings, therefore, can be disambiguated bychecking the agglutinative structure of theE-bunsetsu.Suffixal expressions were also subcategorizedmainly by their semantical functions in orderto decompose limited types of the conceptualcompounds in the experimental system.The numerical outline of these refinements ofthe categories is given in Table 3.
The aster-isk in the table implies the subcategorizationbased on the inflectional type.Refined Connection Rules.
The connectionrules were refined by using the finally obtainedcategories that amount to 142.
The number ofthese rules is approximately 3,600.Table 4 shows some examples of the rule and ofthe expression.Table 4.
Examples of Ref ined Rulessucceedablesubcategory examples of expressions (their meanings) categor iesR01R02R19R23R27R36R37R38R55R56R62'ga' (AGENT,OBJ-1, ' ' ' ) , 'no'  (AGENT,''')'wo '  (OBJ - I , ' ' ' )'wo moti i  te' ( INSTRUMENT), 'ni  tui te' (OBJ- i ,SITUATION), ' ' ''hi tui te' (NUMBER-2"RATE, ' ' ' ) , 'atar i '  (NUMBER-2"RATE,' ' ')'he' (DIRECTION), 'made' (DIRECTION), ?"
?
"ha' (AGENT \[THEME\], OBJ- i  \[THEME\], ?
?
?
)'mo' (AGENT \[ADDITION\] ,.'')
,'mo mata' (AGENT \[ADDITION\],' ' .)
,''''koso' (AGENT \[STRESS\] ,OBJ-i \[STRESS\], ' ' ' )' made' (AGENT \[STRESS-OTHER\], OBJ- i  \[STRESS-OTHER\] ," ?
? )'
dake ' (AGENT \[LIMITATION\], ? '
?
), ?
?
?
'made' (AGENT \[T-POINT\] , ?
?
.)
, ?
?
?R37,R38,R55,.
.
"R36~R38,R55,R56, ...R36~R38,R55,R56, ...R01,R02,R19,R36, .
.
.R01,R02,Ri9,R36, .
.
.R01,R02,Ri9,R27,R36, .
.
.R01,R02,RI9,R36~R38,  ...Exper imentOverv iewThe Japanese sentence is ordinar i ly  written inkana(phonetic)  letters and Chinese( ideographic)characters without leaving a space between words.From the v iewpoint  of machine-process ing,however, it is preferable to express clearly theunits composing the sentence in such a way as toleave a space between every word as in English.We have no standard way of spacing the unitsthough the need for this has been demanded fora long time.
Supposing tentat ively that asentence is wr i t ten in Engl ish letters with aspace between each E-bunsetsu, we have developedan exper imental  system which decomposes theinput E-bunsetsu into atomic expressions usingthe ref ined rules and decides its function.The system is overviewed as follows:(i) The system consists of five components:  aprogram; a d ict ionary of atomic expressions;a table of the connect ion rules; a paradigm;and a table of euphonical  ru les(notment ioned in this paper);(2) Each entry express ion is given one or moretr iple of the information in the dictionary.A tr ip le consists of a code of the (refined)category such as A48 or R56, a code of theinf lect ional  condit ion of the connection,and a code of the meaning;(3) As to the inf lectable expression, thed ict ionary includes only its stem;(4) E-bunsetsu is decomposed from left to r ighton it by the " longest-match method" andall possible analyses are tr ied in the"depth-f irst" manner;(5) The category code such as Mi3 or Y05, ofthe noun or yougen is used in the input andd ict ionary for the actual express ion in it.Op_erational ExamplesOperat ional  examples follow.
The str ing ofletters parenthes ized in the output descr ipt ionis the inf lect ional  ending and '/' denotes theboundary between the conceptual  express ion andthe annex-express ion detected by the system.The arrows in the fo l lowing i l lustrat ion showthe str ing of categor ies which corresponds toa leftmost substr ing of the input and isassured to be successful  by both of the connec-t ion rules of the category level and the inf lec-t ional condit ions given in the dict ionary.
Onthe other hand, the dotted arrow shows that theconnect ion is a l lowed by the rule of the cate-gory level but not by the rule of the inf lec-t ional level.Example i.input = YO60NAKATTATAME (~h,~t : t :~)output :segmentat ion = Y06(0)/NA(KAT) T(A) TAMEcategories = Y06 A48 A4C R91funct ion = P MODIFYING PWithout checking the ref ined rules ( of twolevels: the category level, and inf lect ionallevel), the fol lowing two decomposi t ions wouldhave been obtained.Y06 (0)/NA (KAT) T(A) TAME i-iY06 ,  ) A48 > A4C~-~R91"'~A60 '~R91~A4A~A4AY06 (O) NA (KAT) T (A) T (A) ME 1-2?
?
?
?
?Y06.
~A48 ~A4C- -~A4C"'~ A60Whi le the decomposi t ion i-I is successful,  1-2was re jected because the auxi l iary verb,'ta' isprohib i ted from being connected to the precedingauxi l iary verb,'ta'  by the inf lect ional  rule.The tr iples given in the dict ionary to 'tame'are as follows:{R91; "connectable to adnominal  formsof all types"; CAUSE.REASON };{R91; "connectable to adnominal  forms--6of verb types"; PURPOSE };{A4A; "connectable to adnominal formsof all types"; CAUSE.REASON };{A4A; "connectable to adnominal formsof verb types"; PURPOSE }.In i-i, since the inflectional type of 'ta' isnot verbal, the second and fourth triples arenot acceptable.
In addition, the third one isunavailable since the ending form of the inputE-busetsu results to be a stem, and inadequate.Finally, only the first one was accepted andat the same time the meaning of 'tame' was dis-ambiguated.Example 2.i nput  = YO8SANIMOTODUITESIKA(~ ~ ~Ic~,~l~)output :segmentation = Y08 SA/NIMOTODUITE SIKAcategories = Y08 S45 RI9 R42function = N MODIFYING PWithout using the rules, the following threekinds of decompositions would have been possible.Y08 SA/NIMOTODUITE SIKA 2-1: : : :Y08--~$45 > R i9 -  >R42R92TO8 SA NIMOTODUITE SI KA 2-2: : : : :Y08--~S45---~Ri9 R95Y08 SA NIMOTODUITE S(I) KA 2-3: : : : :Y08--~S45 > Ri9 S35?
he atomic expression, 'si' in 2-2 and 'si' in2-3, which are understood as a conjunctive verb,and a suffixal expression, respectively, can notbe connected to 'nimotoduite'Example 3.input = MI4TEKINANODEHANAI.
(~r~I~<, , )output :segmentation 1 = M|4 TEKI/NANODEHANA(1)categories 1 = M\]4 $29 A48funct ion  1 = P IN THE SENTENCE-FINAL POSITIONsegmentation 2 = Ml4 TEKI(NA) NO/DEHANA(1)categories 2 = Ml4 $29 $47 Al8function 2 = P IN THE SENTENCE-FINAL POSITIONThe result was twofold according to two sortsof interpretations of 'no':the first one is tounderstand it has no special meaning; thesecond, it is a suffixal variant of the noun,'mono' ('thing').
There exist latently followingeight different decompositions but only 3-1 and3-6 were accepted by the rules.Mi4 TEKI/NANODEHANA(I) 3-1: : :M14---~$29 )A48Ai8MI4 TEKI NANODE HA NA(I) 3-2Mi4 TEKI NANOD(E) HA NA(I) 3-3Mi4 TEKI(NA) NODEHANA(I) 3-4Mi4 TEKI(NA) NODE HA NA(I) 3-5Mi4 TEKI(NA) NO/DEHANA(I) 3-6: : : :M14---~$29.
R70 Ai8ROi A48Mi4 TEKI(NA) NO DE HA NA(I) 3-7Mi4 TEKI(NA) NO D(E) HA NA(I) 3-8AS for 3-6, it was understood that the atomicexpression,'no' was not a particle(R70) whichindicates a kakariuke relation between twonominal E-bunsetsus or a particle(R01) of themeaning of AGENT, but a suffixal expression(S47)which nominalizes the predicative expression.Example 4.input = M2ODEKINAKUNARUTO(~ ~ ~ <~ ~)output :segmentation 1 = M20/DEKI() NAKUNAR(U) TOcategories 1 = M20 A24 A4\] R92function 1 = P MODIFYING Psegmentation 2 = M20/DEKI() NAKUNAR(U) TOcategories 2 = M20 A24 A4\] R94function 2 = P MODIFYING PThe decomposition was unique but the interpre-tation of 'to' was twofold as follows.M20 / DEKI () NAKUNAR(U) TOM20---~A24 > A41.
R03  R19R72$90In the first interpretation, 'to' is a conjunc-tive particle of the meaning,ASSUMPTION, and inthe second, it is a particle of the meaning,QUOTATION.
This ambiguity is, therefore, quitereasonable.Results of ExperimentsWe show the results of experiments made for 162E-bunsetsus in Table 5 and 6.
The averagenumber of atomic expressions composing an E-Table 5.
Ambiguity of Decompositionnumber of decompositions number of E-bunsetsuszero1 (not decomposable)one 158two 3more than orequal to three 0--7--Table 6.
Ambiguity of Category Sequencenumber of category sequences number ofper a single decomposition decompositions1 1452 123 14 35 28 1bunsetsu fed to the system has been 4.8.
Theambiguities of both the decomposition and thecategory sequence have been reduced sufficiently.Most of the ambiguities left by the system havebeen quite reasonable in the sense that furtherreductions of them would require more detailedinformation from the outside of the E-bunsetsu.In addition, the ambiguities to be left tohigher phases of parsing for reduction have notbeen reduced by the system.As exemplified in Example i., the disambiguationof the atomic expression's meaning is carriedout by selecting the triple of functionalinformation given in the dictionary.
Nine per-cent of the entry expressions are given pluraltriples and then their meanings can be reducedby our rules on the bases of its structuralsurroundings in the E-bunsetsu.REFERENCES\[i\] K.Shudo:"On Machine Translation from Japa-nese into English for a Technical Field",Information Processing in Japan,14 (1974).\[2\] K.Shudo,H.Tsurumaru & S.Yoshida:"A Predi-cative Part Processing System for Japanese-English Machine Translation"(in Japanese),the Trans.
of the IECE of Japan,J60-D,10(1977) --- Abstract in English,E60-D,10(1977).\[3\] K.Shudo,T.Fujita & S.Yoshida:"On the Proces-sing of Annexational Expressions in Japa-nese", the Proc.
of the 7th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics(COLING 78) (1978).\[4\] K.Shudo,T.Narahara & S.Yoshida:"A StructuralModel of Bunsetsu for Machine Processing ofJapanese"(in Japanese), the Trans.
of theIECE of Japan, J62-D, 12 (1979) --- Abstractin English, E62-D, 12 (1979).\[5\] K.Shudo:"Studies on Machlne Processing ofJapanese Using a Structural Model ofBunsetsu"(in Japanese), the Bulletin of theInstitute for Advanced Research of FukuokaUniversity, 45 (1980).ConclusionsExtending the domain of input sentential formsof the natural language processing systemenables, in principle, the system to manipulatemore precice or delicate meanings and to commu-nicate with men more naturally.
Our grammat-ical model presented in this paper is so compre Lhensive that the local structures of colloquialand written sentences actually used in everydaylife can almost always be analyzed with it.It is also elaborate enough to reduce thesyntactic and semantic ambiguities of the localstructure.
It should be noted that the localstructure analyzed by our grammar plays a quiteimportant role in the Japanese language proces-sing because it is not only a larger structurewhich can include idiomatic strings of wordsthan a bunsetsu, but also a syntactic and seman-tic unit for sentence construction.Every atomic expression, which is the smallestcomponent of the sentence, has been chosen tohave undividable and self-supported meaninqs.Though we have not mentioned it in detail inthis paper, we have already settled exten-sively the meanings of annex-expressions byclassifying them.--8--
