LINGUISTIC ANALYSIS OF NATURAL LANGUAGE COMMUNICATION WITH COMPUTERSDr.
Bozena Nenisz ThompsonCalifornia Institute of TechnologyPasadena, California, USASummaryInteraction with computers in naturallanguage requires a language that is flexibleand suited to the task.
This study of naturaldialogue ~as undertaken to reveal those charac-teristics which can make computer English morenatural.
Experiments were made in three modesof communication: face-to-face, terminal-to-terminal and human-to-computer, involving over80 subjects, over 80,000 words and over 50hours.
They showed some striking similarities,especially in sentence length and proportion ofwords in sentences.
The three modes also sharethe use of fragments, typical of dialogue.Detailed statistical analysis and comparisonsare given.
The nature and relative frequency offragments, which \]lave been classified intotwelve categories, is shown in all modes.
Spe-cial characteristics of the face-to-face modeare due largely to these fragments (whichinclude phatlcs employed to keep the channel ofcommunication open).
Special characteristics ofthe computational mode include other fragments,namely definitions, which are absent from othermodes.
Inclusion of fragments in computationalgrammar is considered a major factor in improv-ing computer naturalness.The majority of experiments involved a reallife task of loading Navy cargo ships.
Thepeculiarities of face-to-face mode were similarin this task to results of earlier experimentsinvolving another task.
It was found that intask oriented situations the syntax of interac-tions is influenced in all modes by this contextin the direction of simplification, resulting inshort sentences (about 7 words long).
Usersseek to maximize efficiency In solving the prob-lem.
When given a chance, in the computationalmode, to utilize special devices facilitatingthe solution of the problem, they all resort tothem.Analyses of the special characteristics ofthe computational mode, including the analysisof the subjects" errors, provide guidance forthe improvement of the habitability of such sys-tems.
The availability of the REL System, ahigh performance natural language system, madethe experiments possible and meaningful.
Theindicated improvements in habitability are nowbeing embodied in the POL (Problem OrientedLanguage) System, a successor to REL.I.
IntroductionThe research reported on is part of alarger project aimed at improving the interac-tion of humans with computers in a language thatis natural for the user.
In real life applica-tions of computers the language is natural in avery specific sense, since it is constrained bythe linguistic and situational context and sub-Ject to the inevitable restrictions of the com-putational grammar and the general requirementsof this mode of interaction.
However if compu-tational interaction is to be natural, forms oflanguage which are natural in normal dialogue aswell as those particularly suited to the appli-cation should be available to the user.
A veryimportant requirement is that the means of com-munication be flexible, that the user should beable to modify the language so as to best servethe solution of the problem.
Another issue isto what extent the computer should act as anatural party to the Interaction.
Naturalnessof human-computer interaction is often referedto as a system's habitability.This research was undertaken upon thebelief that investigation of human dialogue(both spoken and written) and analysis ofhuman-computer interaction is essential todetermine how good habitability can be achieved.Initial research was done on human-to-humandialogue, both in the face-to-face mode intotally free (but voice only) interaction and inthe written mode where the dialogue was via com-puter terminals linked to a computer system, butwhere the interaction was in unrestrictedEnglish.
Initial research involved the solutionof a relatively simple though quite realisticproblem.
It confirmed some expected differencesbetween the two modes of communication, but alsorevealed some surprising similarities.
Anextremely important result and one that provedparticularly challenging to obtain was the iden-tification and definition of structures otherthan sentences used in natural unrestricted com-munication.
These were finally reduced to abouta dozen categories.
The next stage of researchinvolved a real-life task and the data was thesame for three modes: face-to-face, terminal-to-terminal, and human-to-computer.
Results forthe first two modes were closely comparable tothe previous results and were also compared withresults from the computational mode.
Again,what is more striking and worthy of interest arethe similarities rather than the differences.Some of the major similarities are in sentencelength, percentage of words in sentences (asagainst fragments), number of sentences (fortermlnal-to-termlnal and human-computer mode),~ery high number of sentences containing be-verbs, and low number of sentences containingrelative pronouns.In this paper, the focus is on (I) the com-parison of statistics obtained for the three- 190,nodes; (2) the nature and relative frequency offragments and their implications for computa-tional habitability; and (3) detailed discussionof the characteristics of the computationalinteractions.The research involved over i00 subjects inyears 1975, 1977 and 1979/80.
The subjects werepredominately undergraduate and graduate stu-dents at Caltech.
This work resulted in anenormous amount of data, requiring a great dealof time for analysis.
Since each protocol wasscored by at least two people (and usuallymore), averaging out the scores was also timeconsuming.
Total time spent by subjects inexperiments was over 50 hours, which yielded forflnal comparisons 20 face-to-face protocols, IItermlnal-to-terminal, and 21 human-to-computer,containing over 80,000 words.
Protocols of over20 subjects in face-to-face and terminal-to-terminal mode were analyzed for categories andpartial statistics~ and thus not included in thefinal results.The main thesis of this paper is that inproblem solving situations ordinary conversationand human-computer conversation in a system thatallows relative natural language, share severalimportant features, and that we can improve com-puter habitability by learning about the natureof ordinary conversation, which exhibits ratherwell defined and identifiable structural pat-terns.II.
Early ExperimentsIn an interesting paper on natural humandialogue in a problem solving situation I, it wasnoted on the basis of extensive experiments that"people do not naturally speak in sentences" andthat in general great unruliness characterizesinteractive communication, whether spoken orwritten.
At first sight of the protocols, onetends to confirm the impression.
But a closerlook both at the same protocols and at theresults of analysis cited, as well as someinformal observation of other conversations, andthe reflection that communication would hardlybe achievable in such an absence of rules, ledme to a hypothesis that there is considerableorder in natural conversation.
I designedexperiments in the summer of 1975 and they wereconducted in the fall with the assistance ofstudents in a course in Soelolinguistics at Cal-tech.
Additional experiments were conducted in1977.
These experiments are discussed in somedetail since they provided guidelines for futureresearch.
They differ from the later experi-ments in the fact that subjects used as muchtime as was needed for the solution of theexperiment, while in the later ones an arbitrarycut-off was imposed.
The problem was that oflocating the nearest doctor to a patient'saddress, given a map of Pasadena and a selectedllst of  doctors.
Each experiment involved twosubjects, one being given the map of Pasadenawith the patient's address marked on it (3different locations were used, but only one in agiven experiment) and the other the list of doc-tors.
In the face-to-face mode, the conversa-tions were tape-recorded and transcribed.
Sub-Jects were free to communicate by voice but werenot allowed to look at each others" materials.Typically, they were seated at the ends of afairly large table with the tape-recorderbetween them, and the experimentor in the room.The experimentor provided the materials andinstructions, and answered some initial ques-tions only.
In tile terminal- to-terminal mode~the subjects were in separate rooms and the pro-tocols were recorded and merged with a computerprogram.
The subjects were free to communicatein ordinary English but had to observe someminimal typographical conventions (such as send-ing the message in by using two keys simultane-ously).
The role of the experimentor was thesame, but divided between the subjects and occa-sionally offering assistance with computationalrequirements.
The subjects were fully awarethat they were conversing with a human counter-part (in this, these experiments differed fromBill Martin's.
2 For the purposes of this paper,the results of 12 face-to-face experiments and 7termlnal-to-terminal are used.The problems of analysis were severe, butthe results gratifying.
As noted by otherinvestigators, conversational English has agreat deal of characteristics which call for anapproach very different from the analysis ofwell formed single sentences.
What is obviousis that there are many strings which are notsentences but "incomplete" or "unfinished" orungrammatical in a variety of ways.
But thedifficulty of even deciding what a sentence ishas also been noted (3) :  "...the sentence isnot, strictly speaking, a unit in oraldiscourse.
One can see texts \[n which longsequences of clauses linked by "and then..."occur.
Are these separate sentences or one sen-tence?"
After considerable reflection andsearch for guidance from the literature, arather conventional notion of sentence was used,with the requirement that it contain a NP and agP and that it be within the confines of a sin-gle message (a message being the utterance(s) ofone speaker).
Semantic considerations (admit-tedly often inevitably intuitive) were used todetermine single or multiple sentencehood.Coordinating conjunctions and sequences such as"and then", pauses or phatic units (these beingdefined as any strings keeping the channels ofcommunication open) often signalled separatesentences.
Words such as "because" or "if" tiedstrings into a single sentence.
An additionalsemantic requirement (again admittedly vague)was that a sentence could stand alone as a unitand make sense.
These criteria worked quitewell as evidenced by the counts made by dif-ferent scorers of the same protocols.An interesting category of sentences thatemerged were the so-called transposed sentences,e.g., "The two small streets there might be-191doctors on.
"p "Conwire, I also hate.
", "4, isit?
", "That's the tallest thing we got, specialweapon?
", "Length by width, does it matter?
".Although they are infrequent, such sentencescontribute considerably to the distinctiveimpression made by ordinary conversation.
Dueto their low frequency, only a partial analysisof these was made.
(In four protocols, theyamounted to about 2.5% of the total of sen-tences.)
The first three examples above showonly word rearrangement, but the others containpronouns substituting for the transposed NP, inone case preceding the NP, in the other follow-ing it.Some problems were encountered in the con-sideration of what was a word in numbers, abbre-viat ions, alphanumeric strings ?
In generalnumbers and abbreviations were considered oneword; in alphanumeric strings, a number was oneword, and a character string another.
Phatiessuch as "uh", "urn", "uhuh", as well as "okay",even when abbreviated to "O.K.
", were consideredone word, and as multiple words when obviouslyso, as in "you know", "I see".
Differences inexact word counts were not large enough to besignificant, and often coincided surprisinglywell ?The most severe problem was, naturally, thedefinition of fragments.
Even though a fairlyclear classification was formulated at the endof the analysis of the 1977 experiments, frag-ments and phatics are discussed in conjunctionwith the 1979/80 results.
Their definition wasrefined and some categories were reformulated,and comparisons are made with computational pro-tocols.
The role and desirability of thesefragments in natural conversation is also dis-cussed then.The most significant results of the early exper-iments are summed up in Table I.TABLE IS t r i k ing  Character i s t i csof Face-to-Face ConversationsShort sentences (average length: 7 words,90% under i0 words long)~70% of words are in sentences~20% of words are in fragments~10% of words are phaticsFragments help convey more informationPhatics keep attention and kill silenceMinimal insertions complete fragmentsTable 2 illustrates the main differencesbetween the face-to-face (F-F) and terminal-to-terminal (T-T) modes.TABLE 2F-F T-TTime X over 2XNumber of words X ~3XWords/minute ~65 ~i0Phat \[cs ~10% ~5%Percent of messagescontaining fragments ~70% ~50%Words/sentence ~7 ~7Word s/message ~I 0 ~I0Total words in slightlysentences close to 70% over 70%\[II.
Three Modes of Communication:A Comparisoni.
The Experimental SettingThe setting in the 1979/80 experiments in theF-F and T-T modes was similar to that describedin Section II, but with major differences in theoverall design of the experiments.
First, threemodes of communication were used, the thirdbeing human-to-computer.
The task was a reallife task of loading cargo onto a ship, the databeing from the real environment of loading U.S.Navy ships by a group located in San Diego, Cal-ifornia.
In the first two modes, one subjectwas provided with a list of cargo items to beloaded (along with their quantities) and a llstof decks, their sizes, and their primary uses.The other subject was given a list of the sizesof the cargo items.
The subjects wereinstructed to obey space and other limitations(e.g., hatch size) and restrictions as to whatcargo could be stowed on what decks.
There wasa time limit of one hour in both modes.
Thetask of transcribing F-F recordings was verylaborious due primarily to the specific Jargonand numerous abbreviations in the data.
In theT-T mode, the protocols were obtained automati-cally.For the human-computer mode, the REL Systemwas used.
4-6 This system, developed by our pro-Ject, provides the means for communicating witha large data base in a limited but useful styleof natural English, described in detail in.
6The response times to user queries are quitereasonably short so that natural interaction ispossible.
Requests which are not understood arediagnosed extremely quickly, thus encouragingthe user to try alternate ways of phrasing.This technique was indeed employed frequently,as discussed in Section IV.It has always been the REL System's philo-sophy that naturalnesss of a language isobtained in two primary ways: task-specificityand flexibility for modifications.
Task-specifity can be achieved only by actual studyof the users" needs (and, obviously, by incor-porating their data in the system).
The capa-bilities of REL English have already beenextended to make the language more natural forthis specific task, notably by developing a192prompting "load sequence" (and "offloadsequence") in which the computer elicits theinformation from the user, and offers clarifica-tion if the prompt is not clear.
This devicewas used extensively by the subjects, but itsdescription is left out due to space limita-tions.The other major ingredient of naturalnessis enabling the user to suit the language to thetask by incorporating his specific knowledge andjargon.
To do this, the user must be able toextend the language through definitions and makeother modifications.
This, also, was done bythe subjects and is discussed in Section IV.The experimental setting was obviously very dif-ferent.
One subject at a time was assigned thetask.
No precise time limit was set, but mostsubjects were given two hour time slots, some ofwhich was spent in in\[tiallzing the computa-tional session.
The subject's session on theaverage lasted one and a half hours.
The sub-jects were given a llst of the cargo items to beloaded and the number of each, as well as theprimary uses of the decks.
They were instructedthat they should attend to fitting the cargothrough hatch sizes and to keep track of spaceloaded.
All the pertinent data about the cargoand ships was in the computer.
The subjectswere also given a short manual on the loading ofships, with examples of how to use the systemand English, including arithmetic, definitionsand load sequences.
The experimenter helped thesubject get started and assisted in case of com-putational problems in about half of the cases,others working alone.
Although the subjectswere instructed to read the manual before com-mencing experiments, the analysis of protocolsshowed that few had actually familiarized them-selves with the system.2.
The Structure of Face-to-Face DialoguesSome working definitions need to be stated here.Messages and sentences were discussed in SectionII.
Fragments are all of the dialogue materialthat is not in sentences, and Phatics, whichconstitute a big subgroup of fragments, are allstrings which serve a variety of functions whichmay all be characterized as keeping the channelof communication open (including expressions ofemotions to the other subject and the computer).A page from a dialogue in Figure 1 illus-trates some of the problems in analysis, andgives an idea of some of the categories of frag-ments, since it contains a rather large numberof them.
The categories are defined after thediscussion of the page.
Abbreviations are:S = sentenceP = phaticC = connectorTR = terse replyFS = false startE = echoADD = added informationSELF = talking to oneselfTQ = terse questionTI = terse informationINT = interruptedTRUN = truncatedTRANS = transposed sentence (discussed inSection II)FIGURE 11 A There are like five categories rightthere.
Ammunition, pyrotechnics, specialweapons, vehicles and things on pallets.\[ADD\]2 B Yes, let's run through this llst here.\[P\]3 A Okay.
\[P\]4 B CHG demo.
\[TQ/TI\]5 A CHG.
Okay, I have one CHG demo here onpage 2.
\[E,P\]6 B And that page consists of?
\[C,TQ\]7 A It's a 32... \[INT/TRUN\]8 B I, I Just want to, want to know ~attype.
\[FS\]9 A Oh, that's an ammunition.
\[P\]i0 B It's an ammunition.
\[E\]\[i A Yeah.
\[P/TR\]12 B Uh hum, and some conwire?
\[P, C, TQ\]13 A Conwire, I also have.
That's... That's apallet.
You want a subclasslfication, oris that good enough?
\[TRANS, FS\]14 B No, no, pallet's fine.
\ [TR, TR\]15 A Okay.
\[P\]\[6 B A CTG.
\[TQ/TI\]17 A CTG is more than I.\[8 B Oh, Okay.
105 SMK.
iF, P, TI\]19 A Is that a CTG 105 SMK?20 B It is indeed.21 A Okay.
2 pages of CTGs.
CTG 105 ... SMK?\[P, SELF, TQ\]22 B Yeah \[TR\]23 A SMK, that's a pyrotechnic.
\[TRANS\]24 B Okay, and 105 WP.
\[PC, TQ\]25 A 105 WP.
\[E\]26 B A CTG 105 WP.
\[ADD\]27 A Let's see.
An APE or HE?
Would it helpif I read this to you?
\[P, TQ\]28 B Alright, makes sense in certain ways.\[rR\]29 A There's the WP, I'm sorry.
It's inpyrotechnic also.
\[P\]\]30 B Okay.
\[P\]31 A I can tell you what's in ammunition ifthat would help.
We've got a CTG 106 APE.32 B Okay.
\[P\]33 A CTG 105 HE.
\[TI\]34 B I or 2?
\[TQ\]35 A Both.
Both I and 2.
Then also inammunition I have a CTG 40HE and a 60HE.\[TR, ADD, C, TRANS\]36 B A 60HE.
\[E\]37 A Yeah.
It seems to be a 60HE.
\[P\]M(essage) I is S(entence), 7 words long.The rest is ADD(ed information).
B's first mes~sage contains a P(hatic) and S of 6.
M3 is a P.M4 is either a T(erse) Q(uestion) or T(erse)l(nformatlon).
Next we have an E(cho), followedby a P and a S of 9.
M6 is C(onnector) and TQ.M7 is either INT(errupted) or TRUN(cated).
M8contains a F(alse) S(tart) and a S of 6.
M9 isa P and an S of 3.
MI0 is a S of 3, however on193semantic grounds it could be considered an echo.The rule was adopted that a sentence echo wasconsidered a sentence.
MII is either P orT(erse) R(eply), more likely the former, but theanalysis in general would not be greatlyaffected by either choice.
Mi2 starts with oneor two Ps, more likely two, has a C and TQ.
MI3is a TRANS(posed sentence), followed by FS and Sof 3.
Next we have either a S of 8, or two Ss,one of 3 and one of 4 and a C. Such sentencesare fortunately infrequent.
The general ten-dency was to separate such sequences unlesssemantic ties were strong.
Again the influenceon the overall analysis would not be great.
Mi4contains two TRs or a TR and a P, and a S of 3.Next line is a P. M16 is again either TQ or TI.Next is a S of 5.
Next llne ls two Ps and TI,next two are Ss of 6 and 3 respectively,although the latter could be considered aphatic.
M2I is a P followed by SELF(talklng tooneself) and a TQ.
Next is a TR.
Next line isa TRANS.
M24 is a P, C and TQ, next line is E.M26 is ADD.
M27 is a P, a TQ, followed by a Sof 9.
Next a TR and a S of 5.
It is prob-lematic whether this should be a S. There are anumber of possibilities.
It could be P, couldbe ADD.
Not many such decisions fortunately hadto be made.
The presence of the verb and theidiomatic character weighed toward sentencehoodLn this case.
M29 is a ~ of 3, a P, a S of 4.M30 is P. M31 is a S of II, followed by a S of6.
The former is typical of complex sentenceswith strong semantic ties.
Next M is P, nextTI, next TQ, next TR, ADD, C and TRANS of 13.Next is E, and the last one a P followed by a Sof 7.The working definitions for fragments andphatlcs are:TQ (Terse Questlon): An elliptical questionusually containing no VP, hut often having a NP,e.g., "Why?
", "How about pyrotechnics?"
("Howabout NP?"
is quite common), "~lich ones?
".TR (Terse Reply): An elliptical reply, alsooften Just a NP, e.g.
, "No.
", "Probablymeters.
", "50 and 7.62.
".TI (Terse Information): A rather elusivecategory, neither question, reply nor command,an elliptical statement but one often requiringan action.
Examples can be appreciated in con-text only (Figure i).
It brings to mindAustin's How to Do Things with Words.
9E (Echo): An exact or partial repetition ofusually the other speaker's string.
Often anNP, but it may be an elliptical structure ofvarious forms.
A distinction was made at anearlier time between echo, self-echo, and echo-question but was abandoned.
Only fragmentaryechos (rather than whole sentences, which werefar less common) were included.ADD (Added Information): An elliptical struc-ture, often NP, used to clarify or complete aprevious utterance, often one's own, e.g., "Itdoesn't say anything here about weight, orbreaking things down.
Except for the crush-ables.
", "It's smaller.
36"X20"XiT".
".Spe\[llng out words was included here.~UN (Truncated): An incomplete utterance,voluntarily abandoned.INT (Interrupted): One involuntarily abandoned.These two are often hard to distinguish, buttruncation is clear if the speaker abandons hisutterance, e.g., "Uh, some of these are ... Idon't know ~lat category they wlll go in.
", andinterruption is clear when one speaker Jumpsover the other's utterance which shows signs ofintent at continuation, e.g., "A: Maybe weshould work on some of the bigger things.
B:Yeah, I think that A: Let's try some of thebigger decks .
.
.
.
".FS (False Start): These are also abandonedutterances, but immediately followed by usuallysyntactically and semantically related ones,e.g., "They may, they may be identicalclasses.
", "Well, the height, the next largestheight l've got is 34.
".COMP (Completion): Completion of the otherspeaker's utterance, distinguished from interr-uption by the cooperative nature of the utter-ance, e.g., "A: l've got a lot of...l 've gotB: 2 pages.
A: Yeah.
".CORR (Correction): This may be done by eitherspeaker.
If done by the same speaker it isrelated to false start, but semantic considera-tions suggest a correction, e.g., "Those are 30,uh, 48 length by 40 width by 14 height.
".SELF (Talking to Oneself): Fragments, sometimesmutterings, even to the point of undecipherabil-\[ty, not intended for the other person, butrather thinking aloud reminiscent of Piaget's"collective monologue", I0 e.g., "Ummm - 7 7 8 5and 14 - 7 7 8 will certainly add up to 22wouldn't it or I guess.
".P (~hatics): The largest subgroup of fragmentswhose name is borrowed from Mallnowskl's II term"phat\[c communion" with which he referred tothose vocal utterances that serve to establishsocial relations rather than the direct purposeof communication.
This term has been broadenedto include all fragments which help keep thechannel of communication open, such as "Well","Wait", but even "You turkey".
Two sub-categories of phatics are:C (Dialozue connectors): Words such as "Then","And", "Because" (at the beginning of a messageor utterance).T (Tag questions): e.g., "They're all under 60,aren't they?
"In the discussion above, the words"speaker" and "utterance" were used; but sincemost of these fragments are found also in thetermlnal-to-termlnal mode and some also in thecomputatlonal mode, they apply also to typedinteractions.3.
Statistical Analysis of the Three ModesThe analysis beta Is based on the 1979/80 exper-iments only since they all involve the same shi-ploading task.
The results were scored in eachcase by at least two persons, and the computa-tional mode protocols by five.
There are 8194face-to-face, 4 terminal-to-termlnal and 21human-to-computer protocols, involving 44 sub-Jects.
The time, was one hour each for thefirst two modes, and an average of one and onehalf hours for the third.
Since there weretwice as many F-F protocols as T-T and almosttwice as many H-C as the first two combined,statistical totals are not very important.
Theyare given here however to yield strength to thefinal processed comparisons.The analysis of computational protocolsclearly necessitated some different methodolo-gies, and some data is simply not comparable(e.g., load sequences, since they were absent inF-F and T-T).
The category "message" was splitinto "parsed message" and "parsed and nonparsedmessage," the first comprised of parsed inputsand the second of all inputs.
The fragmentsalso consisted of parsed ones: terse question,terse reply and definitions, and nonparsed ones:false starts and phatics.
The terms "message"and "fragment" for the values in H-C refer toparsed messages and parsed fragments.
Unlessindicated otherwise, "fragments" in general donot include phatics, connectors and tags.
Loadsequences were completely left out of analysis,and obviously no computer answers were analyzed.TABLE 3F-F TrT HrCSentence length 6.8 6.1 7.8(5.7-7.8) (5.5-6.7) (5.5-10.2)Message length 9.5 10.3 7(6.4-12.4) (7.8-12.7) (total:7.8)Fragment length 2.7 2.8 2.8% of words in sentences68.8 72.8 89.3% of words in fragments17.2 21.1 10.7Sentences/message?
96 1.22 .81Fragments/message?
59 .74 .i9Phatics/messagei.I .59 .04Total Avg.
Total Avg.
Total Avj~.Messages 5574 697 310 78 1093 52parsed and nonparsed 1615 77Sentences 5302 663 385 77 882 42Fragments 3253 402 230 58 211 i0Phattcs (includingconnectors and tags)4842 605 148 37 46 2Total Total TotalWords in messages49800 3285 8525Words in sentences34266 2393 6880~rds  in fragments8584 694 823The statistics show some expected markeddifferences as to the number of words, messages,sentences, fragments and phatics.
The face-to-face mode is not surprisingly much more verbose,and shows a much higher ratio of phatics.
Whatis however far more interesting is that severalstatistics are close to each other: those forsentence length, message length, fragment length(excluding deflnitions in H-C, since they areabsent in the other two), percentage o~ words insentences, especially for F-F and T-T, percen-tage of words in fragments, again especially forF-F and T-T.
The latter two are of interestsince in the H-C mode the percentage of words insentences is higher and in fragments is lower,even though the system allows use of fragments.As for sentence length, Chafe I0 cites the "ideaunit" in spoken as having a mean length of ~out6 words.
These numbers bring to mind GeorgeMiller's 12 "magical number 7".
Also noticeableis a striking closeness between average of mes-sages in T-T and parsed and nonparsed inputs inH-C.
The ratio of sentence/message are closefor the 3 modes, and the ratios offragment/message are close for F-F and T-T. Norsurprisingly, the ratio of phatic/message aredifferent, being particularly low for H-C.Fragments are of particular interest andtherefore are analysed in further detail.
Frag-ments are considered separate from phatics.Nonparsed fragments in H-C are included in thisanalysis.
TRUN and INT are collapsed into TRUN.As Table 4 shows TR is the predominant fragmentin all three modes.
(H-C mode characteristicsare discussed in Section IV.)
The next is ECHOfor F-F, TI for T-T and TQ for H-C, and TQ israther high in all three modes.
These may seemto have little in common, but they are all typi-caly NPs.
The percentages for FS are close inall three modes, particularly so in F-F and H-C.The absence of some categories in some modes isequally interesting, even though totally under-standable in some cases.
The low presence ofCORR in F-F and its absence in T-T is suprising,but may be partly due to some overlap of thiscategory with FS.
The absence of SELF and TAGin T-T and H-C is understandable, as is theabsence of DEF(definltions) in F-F and T-T. Itshould be noted that in T-T the category didoccur in a way.
The subjects used a good dealof abbreviation in spelling (a common type ofDEF is abbreviation) and also conventions, whichevery pair invented for end of message signal.ECHO and COMP in H-C would be rather silly --who would echo or complete the computec?
Butthe absence of ADD, CORR, TI and CON is due tothe restraints of the grammar.
Their role anddesirability in H-C is further discussed in Sec-tion V.TABLE 4Tpt al _~ LengthFace-to-Face:Echo 532 16.4 2.7Added Information 425 13.1 2.7\]orrect\[on 56 1.7 2.7Completion 95 2.9 2.7Talking to oneself 114 3.5 2.7Terse Reply 571 17.6 2.7- 1 9 5  -Terse Question 411Terse Information 297False Start 413Truncated 339DefinitionPhatic 4842Dialogue Connectors 1936Tag Questions 31Termlnal-to-Terminal:12.6 2.79.1 2.712.7 2.710.4 2.71.41.41.4Echo I0 4.3 2.8Added Information 41 17.8 2.8CorrectionCompletion 2 .9 2.8Talking to OneselfTerse Reply 67 29.1 2.8Terse Question 3J 13.4 2.8Terse Information 48 20.9 2.8False Start 23 i0.0 2.8Truncated 9 3.9 2.8DefinitionPhatic 148 I.
3Dialogue Connectors 34 1.3Tag Quest ionsHuman-to-Computer:EchoAdded InformationCorrectionCompletionTalking to OneselfTerse Reply 91 37.8 1.0Terse Question 67 27.8 4.6Terse InformationFalse Start 30 12.4 2.3TruncatedDefinition 53 22.0 6.0Phatic 46 2.3Dialogue ConnectorsTag QuestionsPhat\[cs deserve a separate detailed discus-sion on account of their varied semantic func-tions but it is beyond the bounds of this paper.By faro the most common phatic is Okay.
It isinteresting that speakers do not seem to beaware of this.
When I asked my class in psycho-linguistics (over 15 students) which phatlc theythought most frequent, a variety of answers wasgiven, but none came up with Okay.
Table 5shows the percentages of the top 5 phatics.
InH-C several phatlcs occurred, but only 3 "Okay"sand one "Oh well" of the tope five.
They areillustrated below and discussed in Sections IVand V. Table 5 also gives percentages for thetop five dialogue connectors.
There are none inH-C.TABLE 5Most Freqtlent PhatlcsP hatersOkayWellOhYeahF-F T-T H-C27 25 79 t87 i7ConnectorsAnd 33 28So 28 25But I0Then 7Now 5Some interesting phatics:From F-F:goddammit, bleah, oops, forget it, you'rek\[dding, fool, yuk, you nitwit, what a pity,Just a sac.From T-T:bleep, more to come, ook, ook to you,congrtltns, cmt => grt idea, stand by, youturkey ("look" occurred in 3 protocols, which isquite interesting considering the mode).From H-C:yes, I know how you feel, no, are you acomputer?, of course, ?, foo to you, what isyour problem?, there must be a better way,bla...bla, why don't you understand my question?help, where are we machine?, you lie, good,thank you.IV.
The Human-to-Computer Mode:Special Characteristicsi.
Performance of the SystemThe system performance was such that meaningfulwork could be accomplished by largely unini-tiated subjects with a bare minimum of assis-tance.
Response to inputs which were not under-stood was extremely fast, the incidence of bugswas low (out of 1615 messages, 12 hit bugs) andrecovery from them was excellent.
Responsetimes were quite adequate, especially since manyrequests involved quite a bit of computation.The subjects never showed impatience or boredom,but apparently used the latency time (from inputto response) to formulate the next request.2.
The Influence of the Specific TaskThe special task at hand and the specialcharacter of a problem solving situation bothhave an influence on the performance of the sub-Jects.
The "prompt sequence" for loading theship provided in the language was used by allsubjects even though they could have accom-plished the same thing by natural dialogue (themagical number "7" shows up again here in theaverage of 7.6 loading sequences per protocol).The percentage of items loaded is lower than inthe F-F but this is due to the considerablylonger initial orienatation period in H-C (from1/2 to I hour), after which the rate of loadingincreases.
About 50% of items were loaded inF-F in one hour, so the task is completable Inabout two hours.
About 20% of the \[terns wereloaded in H-C, but considering that the rate ofloading increased in the last half hour of thesessions, the task was also doable in about 2hours.
The solution of the problem was not how-ever of interest in these experiments.
Theinfluence of the problem solving situation was196very evident, particularly on syntax.
The ques-tion (request) -- response interchanges are dom-inant in all modes.
Rather short sentences usedare also attributable to this.
Fragments areuseful for increasing the flow of information.Phatics facilitate interaction.3.
SyntaxThe types of sentences used is of particularinterest here, so detailed analysis was madewit\]\] respect to sentence structure and type.The results are summarized in Table 6.TABLE 6Sentence TypesTotal %All sentences 882Simple sentences, e.g., "List thedecks of the Alamo."
651 73.8Sentences with pronouns, e.g., "Whatis its length?
", "What is in itspyrotechnic locker?"
30 3.4Sentences with quantifier(s), e.g.,"List the class of each cargo."
71 8.0Sentences with conjunctions, e.g.,"What is the maximum stow heightand bale cube of the pyrotechniclocker of the AL?"
88 10.0Sentences wit\]\] quantifier and conjunc-tion(s), e.g., "List hatch width andhatch length of each deck of theAlamo."
23 2.6Sentences with relative clause, e.g.,"List the ships that have water."
6 .7Sentences with relative clause (orrelated construction) and comparator,e.g., "List the ships with beam lessthan 1000."
6 .7Sentences with quantifier and relativeclause, e.g., "List height of eachcontent whose class is class IV."
2 .23Sentences with quantifier, conjunctionand relative clause, e.g., "Listlength, width and height of eachcontent whose class is ammunition."
2 .23Sentences with quantifiers and compar-ator, e.g., "How many ships have abeam greater than 1000?"
3 .34The dominance of simple sentences is strik-ing.
The reason is certainly not the lack ofavailability of complex sentences.
I think thatseveral reasons account for this.
The problemsolving situation influences the subjects towork in a simple manner, often employing what Ihave termed success strategy, i.e., repetitionof the same type of requests.
Another reason isdefinitions.
Once the subject has introduced adefinition whose right hand side is often com-plex, involving conjunctions, relative clauses,even quantifiers, they are used in subsequentrequests, which are therefore short and simple.Another reason may be simply the computer.
AsRobinson 13 and Grosz 14 noted, subjects tend tobe more formal in conversat ion with thecomputer.Sentences were also analysed as to their type,since it was noticed that a great number of themwere of the W~l-type and contained be-verbs,e.g., "What are ships?".
The results confirmedthe observation: 75% were WH-type questions.Only I% were Yes-No type questions, e.g., "IsAlamo a ship?
", "Is there a deck whose primaryuse is ammunition and whose length is 396?
".Commands, most commonly starting wit}\] "List",accounted for 19% of sentences, and a specialcategory of statements, data addition, for theremaining 5%.
These results are very interest-ing but I hesitate to effer an explanation.
Inthe analysis of two F-F protocols consisting of15500 words it was found that a be-verb occurredonce every two sentences.
Since be-verbs are socommon also in F-F, this may either be a generalfeature of English or oF.
the type of conversa-tions in such problem solving tasks.Concerning the occurrence of other verbs,few sentences contained HAVE-verbs.
No otherverbs were part of the version of the grammaravailable to the subjects.
Verbs could havebeen introduced by definition, but nobody didso.
Possessives and sentences with "there" wereobserved, but surprisingly few in view of theavailability of these structures in the grammar.The use of the article "the" was erratic.
Theinvestigation of the F-F sample also showed fewrelative pronouns; "that" was the most common --one in every 19 sentences.
Conjunctions werefairly freqnent -- one in every 8 sentences,"and" being the dominant one; likewise quantif-lets -- one in every 10 sentences.
This coin-cides well with the sentence analysis for H-Cwhere sentences with conjunctions or quantifiersare the highest in percentage among the complexones.On the whole, one is forced to conclude thatmonotony of structure is the rule rather thanthe exception in H-C.4.
Definitions~ Fragments and PhaticsThe REL System allows the user to avail himselfof a great variety of definitions 6 which, how-ever, is not too well reflected in the proto-cols, due to the subjects" lack of familiaritywith the system.
One subject whom I observed as\]laving familiarized himself with the system madeextensive use of definitions.
It should beadded that, beyond those which were actuallyused, 30 more definitions were attempted butcontained errors.
Some definitions had beenbuilt in by the language designer, notably"remaining area" and "adjusted remaining area.
"These were frequently employed.I have made a rough categorization of the defin-itions according to their complexity.
Abbrevia-tions are the simplest, e.g., "def:DKS:decks ofthe USS Alamo".
But even abbreviations can besophisticated and therefore more useful like the197following one with a quantifier: "def:ED:eachdeck of the Alamo."
Abbreviations accounted for34% of the total of 53 definitions.
Synonymswere more complex: "def:INFl:aft width and for-ward width and minimum clearance,""def : INF2: INF 1 and square foot capacity,""def:"well deck" info:INF2 of the "well deck" ofthe Alamo."
Synonyms accounted for half (51%) ofthe definitions.
Of the remainder, 9% involvedarithmet teal operations, e.g.,"def :size: (length*width)/144","def:g("8","9"):"8"*"8"+"9"*"9".
A few definl-lions had to do with adding new data.Other than definitions, fragments were oftwo types: parsed, which were Terse Question andTerse Reply, and nonparsed, which were FalseStarts and Phatics.
TQs were noun phrases whichare parsed into sentences if followed by a ques-tion mark, e.g., "Class of culvert?
", "i2*(SQ ofMEZ)/(450/12)?"
There are 67 of those.
TRswere single words or numbers arrising from thepartlcular feature provided by the system todeal with long answers.
It reads, e.g., "Thereare 203 lines in this answer.
How many do youwant?
Respond with "all', "none" or a number.
"It was considered important to include them,since failure to respond resulted in an errormessage, and also to see to what extent thatfeature is useful; it is, since there were 91TRs.
No distinction was made between FalseStart and Truncated; in all cases, these 30oceurences were messages abandoned by the sub-ject for reasons that are seldom identifiable.A typing error may have been noticed or athought changed, e.g., H: "What are the decksand primary uss" C: "Input Error" H: "what arethe primary uses of each deck of the Alamo?
"What is surprising about fragments is the pau-city of TQs.
They are handled by the systemvery well and are certainly shorter to type.
!think that the reasons again are lack o~ fami-liarity with the system and more formal style onthe part of the subject.
But it is also possi-ble that such elliptical structures are somehowmore difficult to use, which would confirmtransformational theory, but poses an uncomfort-able question as to the desirability (widelyassumed) of ellipsis In computatlonal interac-tion.Phatlcs are very peculiar in these H-C pro-tocols.
What ts striking is the anthropomorphi-sation of the computer.
This may be due to thebackground of the subjects, Caltech.
Theyclearly also serve the function of venting one'semotions, and that may be useful.
They areillustrated in Section III and number 46.5.
Special Strate~ies~ Learning, Persistence ofErrorsA number of interesting strategies with respectto the use of language were observed.
The dis-cussion here is Just lllnstcative, but the anno-tation off the protocols shows that they werequite frequently employed.
They are pretty selfexplanatory.
(a) Paraphrase: e.g., H: "What dothe DKS usually hold?"
C: "Input error, pleasere-enter request" H: "What are the primary usesof the DKS?".
Similarly: "Now long \[s theAnchorage?"
"What Is the length of theAnchorage?".
(b) Success: this usuallyinvolves repetitious structure of a sequence ofrequests, e.g., "What relations are there?
""what shlp classes are there?"
"Describe theAL."
"Describe the DKS."
"Describe water.
""Describe " tank.
?
(c) Simplification of Sen-tence Structure: e.g., H: "What \[s the maximumstow helght,bale cube,square foot capacity andtop stack number of the cube of the PL?"
C:"Input error..." H: "what is the maximum stowheight and bale cube of the PL?"
C: "40 72" H:"What ls the square foot capacity and top stacknumber oF.
the PL?"
C: "36 0".
This exampleillustrates also the strategy of suspecting, andtherefore changing, syntax.
The subject mademistakes in punctuatlon by not using spaces, butchanged syntax instead.
That was quite a commonstrategy.
Another example follows.
(d) Mis-trust of Syntax: e.g., "What is known about thehatch of each deck of Alamo?"
"What is knownabout hatches?"
"What is the deck of eachhatch?"
"What is known ahout hatch?"
Each ofthese questions resulted in an ecror message,because the word "hatch" was not In the vocal)u-l ary.
But the subject persistently changes syn-tax and morphology rather than vocabulary.
Inthe following example, the subject misspelledthe word "height", but still changes syntaxfirst: "The heigth of the Alamo/39?"
"What isthe height of the well deck of the Alamo/39?
"(e) Grammar Test in~: this was not very fre-quent, but interesting: "What are the primaryuses of each deck of the Alamo?"
"What ls theprimary use of each deck of the Alamo?"
(f) DataAdd ltion: one subject added a new class:"item:=class", and then made all items to beloaded members of this class: "Water is anitem."
"Conwire is an item.
"..., thus enablinghimself to deal with all Items: "Llst dimensionsof items.
"Learning is evident throughout the proto-~:ols.
It ranges from a simple correction of amisspelling or punctuatlon error to changing thesyntax, for Instance to obtain more specificanswers; e.g., "What ls it's beam?"
(repeatdthree times) "What is its beam?
", H: "What lsthe minimum clearance of each deck?"
C: "Thereare 224 lines ..." H: "What is the minimumclearance of each deck of the Alamo?
"Pertstence of errors was occasionallyfound, as in the next to last example, and theffollowing dialogue -- which shows a variety oferrors and strategies such as success, mistrust-ing syntax, breaking the input into shorterones, adding a quant\[fier instead of correctingpunctuation.
This sequence also illustratessome of the errors analyzed in the next subsec-tion (6).198FIGURE 2H: "C,D of lub ell SAEbO"C: "Input ecr..."(wrong punctuation, lack ofspace)H: "C,D of sandbag"C: "Input err..."(same)H: "C,D of sandbag?
"C: "Input err..."(lack of space)H: "List C,D of sandbag"C: "Input err.
.
.
"(wrong punctuation, space)H: "List C of sandbag, lub oil SAE50, fuel oil~gen set PU670G.
"C: "Input err.
.
."
(lack of conjunction beforelast NP)FI: "C of sandbag and lub ell SAE50.
"C: "Input err..."(wrong punctuation)H: "C of sandbag.
"C: "Input err..
.
"(same)H: "C of sandbag?
"C: "Class IV"(good answer)H: "C of lub ell SAE50,fuel oil,gem set PU670G?
"C: "Input err.
.."(lack of spaces andconJ unc tion)H: "C of lub ell SAE50?
"C: "Class lll"(good answer)H: "C of gem set PU670G?
"C: "Class ll"(good answer)H: "List D of sandbag, lub oil SAE50,fuel oil,gen set PU670G.
"C: "Input err.
.
.
"(lack of spaces andconJ unc t ton)H: "List D of sandbag,lub oil SAEb0, fuel oil,gem set PU670G?
"C: "Input err..."(lack of space and conjunction)H: "List D of each sandbag, lub oil SAE50, fueloil, and gen set PU670(}.
"C: "..."(good answer)6.
Analysls of ErrorsErrors are all of those inputs that are notparsed, resulting in error messages.
Notincluded in this analysis however are phaticsand false starts, already covered.
The message:"Input error, please re-enter request" is issuedin all cases except when the system requests aresponse and the user fails to give one that canbe ~inderstood, in which case the message is:"Your response is not understandable.
Tryagain.
", and in the case of bugs, where itreads: "Your request could not be completed asentered.
Please rephrase and try again.
"The total of 446 errors were classifiedinto eight categories: (a) Vocabulary ' Errors:arising from the lack of a word in the language,e.g., "big" in "Is the Mobile a big ship?
","feet" in "List the decks of each shlp withsquare feet capacity less than 70.".
This beingby  fat the largest category, the importance ofthe semantic facto~ ls clear.
(b) Punctuation:involves sentence final marks, commas andspaces; they are well illustrated in Figure 2.
(c) Synta___x: the low incidence of these errorsis surprising; formal style, repetitiousness ofstructure, expediency in problem solving may al\[be factors.
Errors involving conjunctions orpreposistlons are typical.
Some difficult tocategorize, nonparsed inputs were also includedhere, such as: "What is known?".
In some cases,there ave vocabulary errors but the syntax couldnot have been handled either, typically: "Onwhat decks of the Alamo may cargo be stowed?
","stow" and "may" being not known.
This inputwas immediately paraphrased as "What is the pri-mary use of each deck of the Alamo?"
and handledcorrectly; so one may wonder what ts \[nvolved incases which could not be reasonably expected tobe handled.
(d) Spelling: the only interest-ing observation is that some subjects noticedthese errors immediately, others not for awhile.
(e) Transmission: terminal and phoneline errors.
(f) Definition Format: allerrors in framing definitions are included here,whether vocabulary, punctuation or format.
(g)Lack of Response: to "There are xx lines inthis answer.
How many do you want?"
One sub-ject tried 6 careful requests before catchingon.
(h) BuR:  the actual number of bugsencountered was very low.
In a very few casesthey resulted in termination of the session.TABLE 7Total % Total %Vocabulary 161 36.1 DefinitionPunctuation 72 16.1 format 30 6.7Syntax 62 13.9 Lack ofSpelling 61 13.6 response 16 3.6Transmission 32 7.2 Bug 12 2.7In general, errors were far fewer and fardifferent from what I expected.
The high intel-lectual level of the subjects cannot account forthat, since it was more than counterbalanced bylack of familiarity with the system and lack ofknowledge of the task.
What should be doneabout errors~ and indeed what we are doing, isdiscussed in Section V.V.
Habitability and Naturalness o f  Human-Computer Interaction: Sqme ConclusionsThe purpose of the experiments was to learnmore about dialogues with the view to enhancinginteraction with computers.
What have welearned, and what are we doing?
First, ourguiding eonvlc t tons have been confirmed :English, especially if angmented to suitspecific tasks, is a natural and useful medium.The Job of improving it is open-ended; Englishfor the computer will never be all of English,since English is in reality not one language,but a variety of languages, among some of whichall speakers choose freely, and many belong tospecialists.Our task is to build as good a system asour understanding permits, observe the resultsof its use in actual tasks, and then withincreased understanding continue to Improve.The REI.
System served well in the experiments;its rapid response time was well worth achieving--199\[f for this purpose alone.
But it is no longera research tool.
We are now building the POL(Problem Oriented Language) System.
15 Wqlat wehave learned from the experiments \[s having amajor influence on its design.
Advances inparallel to our own are changing the human-computer relationship, and POL reflects thesetoo.
7,16-19 Unlike REL, POL is programmed in ahigh-level language and thus more amenable forthe research tasks that lie ahead.System breadth and depth in Pet rlck'ssense 8 and rapid response time remain our majorconcerns.
Whatever improvements are introducedhave to meet these requirements.
Experimentsleave no doubt as to their essentiality.
Intel-ligent system response to the user, using hisknowledge base, and support for building thatknowledge base using the facile capabilities ofEnglish, are two major areas where changes aremade.Much is being done in the response toerrors.
REL was particularly weak in this areaas Figure 2 on errors shows.
Punctuation ruleswere too stringent, these can easily be relaxedand so designed as to almost entirely removethis source of error.
For example, final punc-tuation can in almost all cases be added orcorrected, and any ambiguities clarified grace-fully.
Even in REL "List .
.
.
.  "
and "List ...?"
are accepted, to the relief of users.Defaulted responses and responses that add addi-tional information should be acccepted; forexample, lack of response to "There are 203lines..." caused 16 errors in the protocols, yetin the POL design it is handled by defaulting.Identification of words not in the w)cabu-Lary and spelling correction did not exist inREL, resulting in a great deal of frustration.The two are related, and together accounted for50 percent of errors.
A problem here is thetime inherent \[n spelling correction, howeverthe new lexicon methods introduced in POL showpromise of solving this problem.
Syntactic andsemantic means are used, as well as lexical, toidentify intended usage, and echo is used toinform the user of the correction that is made;If the intent is not clearly identifiable, theuser is infom~ed, ILsting the troublesome words.The users should be encouraged and guidedto avail themselves of the wide range of defini-tional capabilities.
This is a primary way forusers to directly build knowledge into the sys-tem.
Def\[nition guides and help sequences areavailable in POL to this end.
A major aspect ofdefinitions is multiple defining of terms.
Toillustrate from one application of REL, thenotion of "net sales" was defined in five ways;th~is one could ask for "net sales ofd\[odes","net sales of the Eastern Sales Region","net sales of salesman Jones,"; the internalambiguity was always clarified in context.
How-ever, the stat\[stlcs from the experiments show-ing that of the ,q3 attempts at def\[nitlon 30were not sucessful point to needed improvementsin making this capability available.
I feelespecially that the incorporation of verbs whichare introduced by definitional paraphrase andwhich were used in other REL applicationsenhances naturalness, even though the experi-ments showed a preference for be-verbs.The area of pronouns and ellipsis in gen-eral is, of course, very important.
Pronounsworked to a certain extent in REL and they havebeen throughly revised for the POL Syste~ pro-fitiug from the work of Grosz, 14 $\[dner andRobinson.
16 This area, however, will requiremuch additional effort if we are to recognizethe wide range of fragments - terse question,added information, and terse information.
Someforms were handled by REL, e.g., "Dimensions ofeonwire?".
However forms such as: "How about..." and "Those of ..." need to be added.
AddedInformation might be handled in such a sequenceas "Consider John, Joan, Betty and Bob.
Johnand Bob are males.
Joan and Betty are females.All are doctors."
or "What is the longesttanker?
Only Norwegian."
Terse information anddialogue connectors may also be considered, forinstance: "List the dimensions of vehicles.
",and, following the answer, "And pallets.
"Although I have only touched upon itbriefly here, the prompt sequence in loadingshlps was an effective tool whose usefullnesswas strongly supported by the experiments.
Thesetting up ,of such abbreviated means of communi-cation by the user, as well as their use, willbe supported in POL.Finally, what about phatics?
Should theybe part of the computer's language?
One is ledby their wide use in face-to-face to includephatic messages from the computer, as is done insome of the other natural language systems.
"Welcome," "Okay," "Thank you" are already inwide use.
More of that nature would not hurt,within reason.
Some inputs from the computerwould undoubtedly be appreciated, such as: "Bepatient, l'm working on it."
if the computationis long or response delayed.Is the recognition of users" phatlcs andresponse to them desirable?
Fillmore 21 pointedout that politeness can be carried too far, asIn the sequence: A: "You have lovely eyes."
B:"Thank you."
A: "You are welcome."
Chafe 22seems to be ready to see more human-likebehavior on the part of the computer, even usingvariations in typing speed as a means of intro-ducing a form of intonation and emphasis.
Weare currently investigating phatlcs, but whileit could be interesting to observe users" reac-tions in this respect, naturalness may be morehighly enhanced in other areas.
And so, notknowing how to respond, swearing is likely toremain ignored by the forever imperfect com-puter.200References\[.
Chapanis, Alphonse, "Interactive Human Com-munication," Scientific American, April1957, pp.
39-42.2.
Martin, W. A.
(Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology), personal communication.3.
Ervln-Tripp, Susan M., "Soclol\[nguistlcs,"J.
A. Fishman (ed.
), Advances in theSociology of Language, Mouton, The Hague,1971, pp.
15-91.4.
Thompson, F. B. and Bozena H. Thompson,"Practical Natural Language Processing: TheREL System as Prototype," Rublnoff, M. andM.
C. Yovlts (ed.
), Advances in Computers,vol.
13, Academic Press, New York, 1975.5.
Thompson, Bozena H. and F. B. Thompson,"Rapidly Extendable Natural Language,"Proc.
of 1978 Nat.
Conf.
of ACM, pp.\[73-182.6.
Thompson, Bozena H., REL English for th__eUser, California Institute of Tec1~nology,Pasadena, 1978.7.
Hendrlx, G. G., "Future Prospects for Com-putational Linguistics," Proc.
of 18thAnnual Meeting of Asso.
for Comp.
Ling.,1980.8.
Petrlck, S. R., "On Natural Language BasedComputer Systems," IBM Journal of Research,vol.
20, no.
4, July 1976.9.
Austin, J. L., How to Do Things with Words,Harvard Univ.
Press, Cambridge, 1962.I0.
Piaget, J., The Language and Thought of theChild, Merldan, New York, 1955.\[i. Mallnowski, B., "The Problem of Meaning inPrimitive Languages," Ogden, C. J. and I.A.
Richards, The Meaning of Meaning, Lon-don, 1946.12.
Milter, G. A., "The Magical Number SevenPlus or Minus 2: Some Limits on Our Capa-city .for Processing Information," ThePsychology of Communicati0n ~ New York,1967.13.
Robinson, Jane J., "Performance Grammars,"Reddy, RaJ (ed.
), Speech RecognitionjInvited Papers of \[974 IEEE Sym., AcademicPress, New York, 1975, pp.
401-427.14.
Grosz, B. J., The Representation and Use o__fFocus in Dialogue Understandin$, SRIInternational, Technical Note 151, 1977.15.
Thompson, Bozena H. and F. B. Thompson,"Introducing POL: A Problem OrientedLanguage System," Proc.
of First Internat.Worksho p on Nat.
Lan ~.
Comm.
with Com-puters, Warsaw, Poland, Sept. 1980.16.
Robinson, Jane J., Diagram: A Grammar forDialogue, SRI International, Technical Note205, 1980.17.
Hendri?, G. G., E. D. Saccrdotti, D.Sagalowicz and J. Slocum, "Developing aNatural Language Interface to ComplexData," ACM Transactions on Database Sys-tems, vol.
3, no.2, 1978.18.
Robinson, Ann E., D. E. Appelt, B. J.Grosz, O. G. Hendrlx and J. J. Robinson,Interpreting Natural Language Utterances inDialo~es about Tasks, SRI international,Technical Note 210, 1980.19.
Hayes, Phll and RaJ Reddy, An Anatomy ofGraceful Interaction in Spoken and WrittenMan-Machlne Communication, Computer ScienceDept., Carnegle-Mellon Univ., 1979.Sidner, C., Towards a Computational Theor Zo f  Definite Anaphor Comprehension in~ngllsh Discourse, Artificial IntelligenceLab.
Technical Report 537, MassachusettsInstitute of Technology, 1979.21.
Fillmore, C. J., "A Grammarian Looks toSoclolinguistics," Shuy, R.
(ed.)
Report o f23rd Annual Round Table Meeting, GeorgetownUniv.
Press, 1973, pp.
273-287.22.
Chafe, W. L., "Should Computers Write Spo-e 9,' ken Languag .
, Proc.
of 18th Annual Meet-ing of Asso.
for Comp.
Ling., 1980.20.--201--
