TERMINOLOGY DATA BANKS AS  A BAS IS  FOR H IGH-QUAL ITY  TRANSLAT IONKarl - Heinz B r inkmannLanguage Services Dept.S IEMENS AGHofmannst r .
51D-8000 MunichW.
GermanyAbst rac tCur rent ly  ex i s t ing  te rmino logy  data banksserve  var ious  purposes .
Two major  g roups ,i .e .
s tandard iza t ion -or iented  and t rans la t ion -o r iented  te rmino logy  data banks a re  of spec ia ls ign i f i cance .
This  paper  dea ls  exc lus ive ly  Witht rans la t ion -or iented  banks  and uses  as anexample  the TEAM termino logy  data bank sys -tem deve loped  by the Language Serv icesDepar tment  of S IEMENS.Some twe lve  years  ago  the Depar tment  rea l i zedthat t rad i t iona l  work ing  methods  wou ld  not  beef fect ive over  the long  te rm in meet ing  s tead i lymount ing  demands  for  h igh -qua l i ty  t rans la t ion .These  demands  resu l t  f rom the fact that humanknowledge  cont inues  to g row at an  ever  inc reas -ing rate, and  that a company  such  as  S IEMENSw i th  a lmost  350, 000  peop le  on  its payro l l  andmore  than  50% of its sa les  resu l t ing  f romexpor ts  has  to p rov ide  its cus tomers  th rough-out  the wor ld  w i th  h igh-qua l i ty  t rans la t ions  ofits p roduct  documentat ion .As  extensive tests have shown, fully automaticmach ine  translation is incapable of meeting theneeds of our company  and, for that matter, ofany company  or institution having to rely heavi-ly on high-quality translation.
The correctnessrates of currently marketed  mach ine  transla-tion systems are so low as to offset any advan-tages in speed that such systems may offer.The post-editing effort required to providetexts having a correctness rate of 75 or even80% with the corrections necessary to reachan acceptable standard of quality is unjustifiableas far as expenditure of money  and manpoweris concerned.We therefore elected to explore the possibili-ties of mach ine  support for human translation,a path already taken earlier and being taken atpresent by other institutions.
The result ofour effort was the program system known asTEAM which is based on a terminology databank which at present contains almost a millionterminological units, i.e.
lexical entries basedon a defined concept and offering terms express-ing this concept in up to eight languages, theselanguages being German,  English, French,Spanish, Russian, Italian, /~ortuguese, andDutch.
The bank is at present being expandedto deal with further languages such as Arabic.The paper then explains the organization of thedata bank, the character sets handled, and thevarious aids it offers its users.
Particularemphas is  is given to the support the systemoffers by means  of special auxiliary programsto terminologists and lexicographers.
A detail-ed explanation is given of the facilities thesystem provides when used in the inter-activemode with respect to information retrieval andupdating routines.A special chapter of the paper is devoted to thehard-copy retrieval facilities of the systemwhich range f rom simple lists output via high-speed printers having standard or extendedcharacter sets, to more  sophisticated glos-saries and dictionaries produced on micro -fiches or by way  of laser printers, to diction-aries and the like in printing-press qualityproduced by data-bank-controlled photo-type-setting equipment.
The hard-copy retrievalfacilities also include the possibility of supply-ing translators with text-related or text-synchronous lists.Finally the paper describes the amalgamationof the terminology data bank with a text pro-cessing system.
In this combination thetranslator is shown the text he is to translateon a video display in a format hat leavessufficient free space for his translation.
Inthis space he is shown all target-languageequivalents which the terminology data bankcontains for the special-field terms that appearin the original text.
The translator then com-pletes the translation text by using the textprocessing system in the inter-active mode.We have found this method faster than the useof a machine translation system requiringpost-editing and even pre-editing in order toreach the high quality standard on which wehave to insist if we want to remain  successfulon the world markets.-- 463 ....
