ENGLISH-JAPANESE TRANSLATION THROUGH CASE-STRUCTURE CONVERSIONFujio Nishida, Shinobu Takamatsu and Hiroaki KurokiDepartment of Electrical Engineering,Faculty of Engineering, University of Osaka Prefecture,Sakai, Osaka, 591 JAPANThis paper reports some trials on mechanicaltranslation from English to Japanese through acase structure constructed on Hornby~s verb patt-erns.
Though the general theoryof case structuresis still at the beginning of study, it providespartial sentential patterns with rough but reso-nable classification labels.
After determinationof schematic dependency relations, multi-vocalproblems for choosing appropriate equivalents aredissolved using subcategories of terms and cases.Case structures of English are transformed intothose of Japanese if necessary, and from those ,Japanese sentences are generated by a Japanesegrammar.i.
IntroductionEnglish and Japanese are fairly differentlanguages from each other.
Accordingly, it willbe necessary to make translation based on a kindof deep structures of sentences which determinessentential forms schematically in respective lan-guages.
The case structure used here is a conven-tional one which is closely related to surfacestructures.
But it was found that the case stru-cture is fairly useful by adding some new meansin construction and usage of it.The parsing for obtaining the case structurefrom English sentences is done by category-match-ing on a fairly precise verb pattern given by A.S.Hornby.
It dissolves most of multi-syntactic andsemantic category problems of words andphrases, and determines global dependencyrelations among constituents of Englishsentences.Subsequently, it determines the app-ropriate Japanese equivalents and post-positions among several candidates byusing subcategories of terms and indivi-dual prepositional words.The case structure thus obtained con-taines the modal part which representsvarious characteristics of the predicatepart in almost independent form of respe- THINGSctive languages.
It also embeds idioma-tic expressions in itself.At the level of the case structure,the difference between both languageexpressions is not so large.
Transfor-mations of sentential forms such as thoseof non-livlng subjects and those of prin-cipal clauses followed by long subordl-nate ones for readability are processedat this stage without difficulty.
Fromthe case structures transformed intoJapanese, translated sentences are gene-rated under control of various involved-EVENT -parameters.2.
Case structures2.1 Case structures of verbsMany English words have multi-syntactic and sema-ntic categories.
However, these multi-categoriesof a word in a sentence should be able to be dis-solved in a context of the sentence, namely, insyntactic and semantic relations to the neighbo-ring words.
A.S.Hornby has given comparativelyprecise verb patterns.
3The use of verb patternsat parsing is fairly effective to identify thesyntactic categories of words and phrases as wellas their syntactic roles such as complements andadverbial infinitives.On the other hand, an efficient introductionof semantic information about words is very im-portant in order to identify their semantic rolesand appropriate Japanese equivalents as well asto dissolve the still remaining syntactic ambi-guities after a syntactic analysis.
For thispurpose, there are several approaches based onthe case grammar.
4 It is still in an incompletestate for general purpose of thorough comprehe-nsion of sentences.
But if it is used on detai-led syntactic rules of the conventional wordusage with the aids of categories of an approp-riate level at various stages of mechanical tra-nslation, these approaches based on the case gra-mmar will serve fairly well to assign reasonableF EXIStence?
~ ATTRibutePHYSlcal-~POSSession-STate ~STate  I RELatio nL MENTal ~PERCEPtua l  STateL STate -\]-EMOTive STateNATURal phenomenonF Physical TRANSferPHYSical~POSSessive TRANSfer-~ATTRibute TRANSfer~BODi ly  ACTiona-PRODuctionACT ion~ ACTi?nL MENTalACTion ~ Mental TRANSfer PERCEPtual ACTion EMOTive ACTionTHINKing ACTionLIVING object ~HUManr~ ica l~ <ANIMal| c~ \[NON,LIVING rNATUREOBJECT ~ object -~PRODUCTS~ MENTal OBJectMENTal SUBJectFig.l The upper part of the categorical trees.--447--semantic roles to various constituents in a sou-rce sentence as well as to choose their appropri-ate equivalents and sentential forms in the tar-get language.From the above considerations, a case struc-ture is assigned to a sentence based on Hornby'sverb patterns.Events of discourse are classified by catego-ries of predicates.
Fig.l shows the upper partof the categorical tree used here.
The categor-ies used for describing case structures are, inmany cases, those appearing at the rightmost inFig.l.Semantic roles of constituents are describedusing case labels shown in Table i.Table i Case labelsPREDicate, AGent, OBJect, EXPERiencer, RECIPient,SOurce, GOal, INSTRument, DEGree, COMPARison,LOCation, TIME, RANGE, MANNer, ROLE, CAUSE,RESULT, MEANS, PURPOSE, CONDition, MODal ( FORM,TENSE, ASPECT, AFfirmation, MOOD, VOICE ), ?..By using several pairs of categories and case-labels chosen from the above the main parts ofeach event are schematically described and calledcase-frames of events.
The first row of Table 2is the main case-frame of the PTRANS event.The m~in part of a case structure based on acase-frame is transformed into a surface structureusing a verb which has a sufficient number ofTable 2 Case-frame of PTRANS action andassignment of verb patternsPRED- AG-PTRANS THINGSVP2BVP2E SUBJ-ectVPI2AVPI6AOBJ- GO-PHYS.OBJ LOCAT UPHYS.OBJIndirectDirect ObjectObjectlinks to describe the main part and belongs toan appropriate verb pattern.
Table 2 shows verbpatterns used for English description of PTRANS.On the other hand, if a verb pattern is giv-en, pairs of categories and case labels of depen-dants are almost determined every category of thepredicate verb as shown in Table 3.
Hence, ifthe verb patterns as well as the categories of averb are recorded in a word dictionary, the poss-ible case structure can be retrieved at parsingimmediately.
Table 4 shows a part of pairs ofverb patterns and categories about ~take ~.Example i shows several examples of case struc-tures obtained by parsing with the aids of Table4.After determination of a case structure or adependency relation of a sentence, there stillremain several problems to be solved.One of them is the choice of an appropriateequivalent or a subcategory.
The word rtake~with the verb pattern VP6A and the case structurehas fairly many Japanese equivalents.
However,this kind of multi-vocal problems can be dissol-ved in many cases by looking up subcategories ofa few designated dependants involved in the casestructure and hence in advance by recording themfor each equivalent in the word dictionary asshown in Table 4.The other is the choice of an appropriateJapanese postposition corresponding to a caselabel and a category of a dependant of a verb.Though a good correspondence generally holds bet-ween them, there are some exceptions.
For thesecases, the postposition is recorded at the itemof the associated verb in the dictionary andpicked up at parsing.DEG- PURPOSE MANNQUANT -ACT -ACTADVer-bialAdjunctto-INF-- -  initiveTable 3 Case structures of verb pattern VPI2ASUBJAG-THINGSIOGO-LOCAT UPHYS.
OBJDOOBJ-PHYS'0BJVPI2APRED-PTRANSPRED- AG- RECIP- OBJ-POSS'TRANS HUM HUM OBJECTPRED-MTRANSAG-HUMOBJ-EVENT UMENT.OBJPResentPARtici-pleEXPER-HUM 0MENT-SUBJExample i(i) VP6A : BODily ACTion~He took bread.
~(PRED-BOD.ACT:eat, MOD:(TENSE:past~OICE:active), AG-HUM:he, OBJ-FOOD:bread)tHe took a taxif(PRED-BOD.ACT:get-on, MOD:(TENSE:past, VOICE:active), AG-HUM:he,OBJ-VEHICLE:a-taxi)(2) VP6A : Mental TRANSferCl took his speech.
~(PRED-MTRANS:make-a-record-of,MOD:(TENSE:past, VOICE:active),AG-HUM:I, OBJ-EVENT:his-speech)(3) VPI5A : Physical TRANSfer~I took the children to the park.
(PRED-PTRANS:go-leading, MOD:(TENSE:past, VOICE:active),AG-HUM:I, OBJ-HUM:the-children,GO-LOCAT:the-park)- -448- -Table 4 A part of the item 'take' in theword-dictionaryVerb patterns Categories Meanings ( and the designated conditions )VP6A BOD.ACT i. get into one's hand ( OBJ-PHYS-OBJ )2. eat ( OBJ-FOOD )3. get on ( OBJ-VEHICLE )PTRANS I. go carrying ( OBJ-NON.LIVING )2. go leading ( OBJ-LIVING )POSS'TRANS i. receive ( OBJ-COMMODITY )MTRANS i. make a record of ( OBJ-MENT.
OBJ: U EVENT )VP22 PERCEP.ACT 1. suppose  ( OBJ-EVENT )(4) VP22 : PERCEPtual ACTion~I took her intelligent.
~(PRED-PERCEP.ACT:suppose, MOD:(TENSE:past,VOICE:active), EXPER-HUM:I, OBJ-EVENT:(PRED-ATTR:intelligent, OBJ-HUM:she))2.2 Optional casesAdverbial phrases and clauses outside verb patt-erns constitute optional cases.
Most of idioma-tic phrase prepositions such as rwith respect to pand many subordinate conjunctions such as Cwhen'and Calthough * determine the case labels and theJapanese postpositions of the following phrasesand clauses.
On the other hand, many prepositi-onal phrases which respectively have only oneprepositions such as c with ~ and Cfor' require theinformation about frame of discourse for deter imination of the case label and the appropriateJapanese postposition.
These information is thecategories of the object term of the phrase andthose of main verb of the governor and further-more, in some cases, other information aboutcase structure of the verb pattern.For example, an adverbial phrase consistingof a prefixed preposition ~ in' and an object termwith category~PHYSical LOCation' can be assigneda case label'LOC' or CGOal', but the appropriatepostposition and case label are determined byreferring to the semantic category of the mainverb.The necessary information for determiningthem are recorded each preposition and subordi-nate conjunction in the word dictionary.2.3 Case structures of noun phrases and clausesCase structures of noun phrases and clauses havesimilar forms to those of sentences as follows;t (Kr-Cl :t~ ,.. ?
,K6-CL:t," ?
?
,K~-Cn:t~ ) (i)where t is the main term, ~ s are the depend-ants and K~-~ is a pair of a case label and acategory.The case structure only consisting of severalindividual objects and prepositions are deter-mined by referring to the categories of theobjects and their syntactic patterns linked withthe individual prepositions.If a noun phrase contains some verbal nouns,the case structure is constructed based on theverbalized words of some of them.Example 2(i) Creceipt of his letter ~C-EVENT: receive(PRED-POSS.
TRANS: *,OBJ-PHYS.OBJ:Ietter(OBJ: *,POSS-HUM:his))(2) t punctual arrival of trains'C-EVENT: arrive(PRED-PTRANS: *, AG-VEHICLE:trains, MANN-MODAL:punctual)where C denotes a certain case for the outsidegovernor and the symbol * denotes the prefixedterm to the case frame containing it.3.
Pars ingFirst, processing of negative expressionsand idioms are described.
They are processed ina somewhat special manner.3.1 Negative expressionsNegative expressions of English are fairlydifferent from those of Japanese at the pointswhere negative adjectives or adverbs of Englishcorrespond to some negative modifiers and anegative auxiliary verb in Japanese.
Hence, it--449will be better to express the negative expressionof an English sentence in a language-free form atthe modal part of the case structure and togenerate the corresponding Japanese sentence fromthat anew.
The types of NEGation are classifiedto INTensified TOTal,TOTal and PARtial ones.At parsing, the value of type is put in themodal part of the case structure together withthe terms directly negated except the case whenthe terms belong to the predicate part of thesentence.Example 3(i) ~No student can solve the problem~(PRED-THINK.ACT:solve, MOD:(AF:( INT.
TOT.NEG,student), MOOD:can), AG-HUM:student, OBJ-MENT.
OBJ:problem(OBJ:*, DET:def))(2) ~Converses are not always true.
'(PRED-ATTR:true, MOD:(AF:(PAR'NEG, always)),OBJ-MENT.OBJ:converses, FREQuency:always)Most of terms of modal cases are omitted hereand hereafter except important terms for simpli-city.3.2 Idiomatic expressionsFor an efficient parsing, idiomatic expressionsare processed with some priority.
They are re-corded near the heading of the leftmost wnrdamong multivocal constituents of the idiom in theword dictionary.
If the idiom has a separatedform t l~t  z as shown in Eq.
(2),t I s I ?..
s~ t z (2)the syntactic and semantic conditions on thestrings of words or phrases sl, ?
.
.
, s~ lyingbetween tl and t 2 are recorded together withthe partial case structure and the Japaneseequivalent of the idiom in the word dictionaryas follows;so ~ that ~(DEG-QUALity:so\[ADVerb\] very*, PRED-ATTR: ~f\[ADJective\], RESULT(that\[SUBORDInate CONJunc-tion\])-EVENT: ~\ [SENTence\ ] ) ,where ~very*~denotes the Japanese word equi-valent to the English word ~so ~.When a constituent word.
of an idiom is foundin a sentence at parsing, it is examined whether~or not there exist the rest parts of the idiomin the sentence by reading the sentence aheador by examining the partial case structure al-ready constructed.
If there is, and if theintermediate part sl --.
s~ satisfies specifiedconditions by parsing, the partial case structureand the Japanese equivalent of the idiom areadded to those already constructed by referringto the word dictionary.
Otherwise, ordinarymode of parsing restarts from term t IExample 4~The problem was so difficult that he couldnot solve it.
~(PRED-ATTR:difficult, OBJ-MENT.OBJ:problem(OBJ*, DET:def), DEG-QUAL:so(very), RESULT-EVENT:(PRED-THINK.ACT:solve, MOD:(AF:TOT-NEG, MOOD:can), AG-HUM:he, OBJ-THINGS:it))3.3 Construction of case structuresThe rewriting rules used for parsing are descri-bed in a Chomsky-like form as follows~V l (K~-C, : tl , IK2 -C2  : ~2)--~ V2 (K,-CI :tl ) V3 ( r~z- ~Z:  J~Z ,VPi )(3)V 3 (FKz- 62 : ~2' K3-C3 :ts ' VP? )
--~ V% ( \ ]K~-~z  : $2' VP{ ) V 5 (K3-C 3 : t 3 )(4)where V{ ( ~ =i ~ 5) denotes a non-terminalsymbol, ~-  ~ : ~ a sequent of several pai~s ofa case label and a category followed by a term,and VPL a label of a verb pattern.Eq.
(3) represents the type of rewriting rulesof a subject and a predicate part, and Eq.
(4)that of a predicate part and a right dependent.The parsing is done from left to right in abottom-up manner and case structures are const-ructed in the order of the predicate part, theright part of a verb pattern of the predicatepart, the subject part and the optional adverb-ial parts.
This order is considered to be effi-cient for restricting possible construction ofcase structures of many sentences of Englishbecause the central structure is generallyconstructed in this order.At first, the partial case structure of thepredicate part is constructed.
If the main verbis a constituent of an idiom, parsing is done ina manner described in the preceding section.Otherwise, all the case structures for the verbpatterns are constructed using the word dictio-nary and a table of case frames.When a main term t6 with a category CLcomes to be included in a partial case structureS} (~ =1,2, ...,m) as shown in Fig.2, syntacticand categorical consistency is checked.If the consistency holds, the term with thecategory C~L is added to the partial casestructure S~ with a designated case label K~L.And if the case KiL is designated for dissolvingmulti-Japanese equivalents of the main verb inthe case structure S~ , appropriate Japaneseequivalents are extracted by subcategory match-ing.Otherwise, if the category C~& of the mainterm t i does not match one of any partial casestructure S~ ( ~=1,2, ..-,n), the category C~Lis deleted.
Similarly, if a partial case struc-ture requires a main term with a designatedsemantic category and a designated syntacticcategory or a position and cannot find the term,the partial case structure is deleted.--450( SUBJ ) ( PRED )tl t2 t3KHICln, l , I C~31 iL -__4  r~- i  L -- _.J.
, Sm.tI--_--4t+Fig.
2 Construction of case structuresIn such a manner, the number of partial casestructures decreases or increases as a term isadded to partial case structures and, in manycases, it reduces to unity at the end of parsing.4.
Case transformationSome typical differences between English andJapanese sentential forms do not require anycase transformation, One of them is negativeexpressions and processed as already mentionedin section 3.1.
The others are oompound nounexpressions containing some verbal nouns whichare prefered to be verbalized in Japanese sen-tences.
However, these Japanese sentences aredirectly generated from the case structureobtained by parsing since the case structure ofa compound noun expression is constructed in thesame way as a sentence when it contains someverbal nouns as mentioned in section 2.3.Hence, the main differences which requiresome case transformations are those as mentionedas follows.4.1 Case transformation for non-causative andstate oriented descriptionsTable 5 Case transformationsCategory of Instances ofpredicate predicateCAUSE cause,makeENABLE enableENABLE allow,permitENABLE preventPERCEPtual lookACTion overlookPERCEPtual showACTionEMOTive surpriseACTion pleaseJapanese sentences avoid sentential forms inwhich non-living objects bring actions such ascausative and perceptive ones especially whenthe actions directly affect human beings andsome events associated with them.
In Japanese,these sentential forms are replaced by non-causative sentences or by resulted-state expre-ssions using state-oriented verbs.
This problemis well known as the non-living subject problemsand has been fairly well studied by many lingu-ists.
5It is shown here that the transformation ofthe expressions can be processed in terms ofcase structures in a systematic way.First, the value of the voiee in the modalcase of such a sentence is set passive, becausein such a situation a passive form is generallya little bit more acceptable than an active formin Japanese.
Second, depending on the categoryof the main verb and the agent, the agent caseis renamed to a more appropriate case so that amore natural Japanese sentence is generated.Third, if possible, the equivalent ofthe predicate part is modified into a more app-ropriate form such as state-oriented descripti-ons.Some examples of this modification are shownin Table 5.Case label Modification offor agent predicateCAUSE DELetionMEANS INTRANS VERBMEANSCAUSEMEANSCAUSEREPL by'capableverb *~REPL by ~not +capable verb *~INTRANS VERBSOURCE + capable verbREPL byMEANS Cunderstand,~CAUSE INTRANS VERB--451--The third column of this table designates somecandidates of case labels to be renamed for anagent?
The appropriate case label and postpo-sition are determined by the category of the termto be filled.The fourth column designates the versioninto which the equivalent of the predicatepart is to be modified.
The versions are class-ified into two kinds.
One of them is REPLacementof the predicate part by a new intransitive verb?The other is some modification of a passiveJapanese predicate part.
The latter is sub-divided into DELetion of a causative verb, INT-RANSitive VERBalizatio g and addition ofthe meaning Ccapable~ to it.The version is coded and the code is recor-ded together with a new Japanese intransitiveverb for REPLacement in the word dictionary.
In'Fable 5, the words with a symbol * denote theequivalent Written in Japanese?At the execution of case transformation, theroutine designated by the code is called andcarries out the necessary processing.Example 5By case transformation using Table 5, twoEnglish sentences(i) CThe weight of snow caused the shed tocollapse'and(2) 'Our limitted budget did not allow us tostart a new project'are translated to Japanese sentences correspon-ding to(f)'Owing to the weight of snow, the shedcollapsed'and(~)tOwing to our limitted budget, we could notstart a new project ~respectively.The main case transformations used here areas follows;(i) (PRED-CAUSE:cause, AG-QUANT:weight(D~),OBJ-EVENT:(PRED-PHYS.ACT:colIapse,OBJ-PHYS.
OBJ:shed(D2)))---~(PRED-PHYS-ACT:colIapse, OBJ-PHYS.OBJ:shed(Dz), CAUSE-QUANT:weight(DI))where ~DI :=OBJ-QUANT:*, DET:def,POSS-PHYS.OBJ:snow,D z :=OBJ-PHYS?OBJ:*, DET:def(2) (PRED-ENABLE:alIow, MOD:(TENSE:past, AF:TOT.NEG), AG-QUANT :budget(D3) , OBJ-EVENT:(PRED-ACT:start, AG-HUM:we, OBJ-MENT.ACT:project(D#)))--->(PRED-ACT:start, MOD:(TENSE:past, AF:TOT-NEG, MOOD:can*), AG-HUM:we,OBJ-MENT.
ACT:projeet(D~), CAUSE-QUANT:budget(D3))where D 3 :=OBJ-QUANT : *, POSS-HUM:we,PRED-ATTR:Iimitted,Di :=OBJ-MENT.
ACT: *, DET:indef,PRED-ATTR:newBeside the above type of case transformations@here are miscellaneous types of them.
A kindof verbs such as ~bring ~ requires reference ofthe category of a term in the object case aswell as the one about the recipient or goalcase.A sentence containing a main verb such asCforce~ is transformed to a more preferable formin Japanese which has a new manner case filledwith a term like ' inevitably ~ instead of themain verb.A sententlal form which includes the verb~have ~ as a main verb is transformed to a moreTable 6 Miscellaneous case transformationsCategory ofpredicatePTRANSMTRANSCAUSEPOSSessionInstances ofpredicatebringtakebringtakeforcecompelhaveReferredcase categoryGOal-PHYS.
LOCEXPER-HUMOMENT.
SUBJPOSS-HUM,OBJ-HUM UNATURal-phenomenonChange oraddition ofcaseADDition of aMANNer casewith~inevitably* ~CHANGEfrom POSSto EXHIBitionModificationof predicateREPL by~arr lve  ~REPL by~attain *~DELetionREPL by~exist*'--452 -preferable form in Japanese even in the case thePOSSessor is a HUMan unless the expression islike that "a living POSSessor has a PHYSical OBJ-ect in his hand~ Some examples are shown inTable 6.ExamPle 6By case transformation shown in Table 6, thefollowing three English sentences(i) eA few minutes walk brought me the place ~(2) ~The fact led him the conclusion'(3) ~We had heavy snowfall last year ~are translated into Japanese sentences corres-ponding to(f) ~By walking for a few minutes, we arrivedat the place'(~) ~From the fact, he attained the conclusion'(~) 'There was heavy snowfall last year'respectively.In sentence (i), the agent with the categoryPTRANS action is verbalized in construction ofthe case structure, and renamed as the caseCMEANS' by the case transformation.4.2 Case transformation for target-clauseorderingThis section describes a case transformation bywhich the order of clauses of a target sentencecorresponds to that of a source sentence to someextent in the locative or temporal sense.In general, an English sentence is translatedinto a Japanese sentence so that dependencyrelations in surface structure such as those ofsubordinate clauses to the principal clause donot change so much for preserving the stream ofthe main subjects included in successive Englishsentences.However, there are several exceptions.
Oneof them has a comparatively definite type insentential forms as well as in translation.
Acertain kind of English sentences do not corres-pond tonatura l  Japanese sentences unless therelation of a subordinate clause to the princi-pal one is reversed.
For example, if aresultant state is contained as a dependent inan English sentence which describes an action ora state, each of them is generally described inJapanese as a dependent in a sentence whichdescribes the result as shown in Example 7.Example 7Two English sentencestHe awoke to find himself in a strange room'and~The problem was so difficult that no man couldsolve it ~are translated to Japanese sentences correspon-ding to~When he awoke, he found himself in a strangeroom'and~Because the problem was so difficult, no mancould solve it'respectively.The first of the above translation is done bythe case transformation;(PRED-PERCEP.ACT:awake, EXPER-HUM:he, RESULT-EVENT:(PRED-PERCEP, ACT:find, EXPER-HUM:he,OBJ-HUM:hlmself, LOC-PHYS?LOC:in-room(D )))---> (PRED-PERCEP-ACT:find, EXPER-HUM:he,OBJ-HUM:himself, LOC-PHYS.LOC:in-room(D), TIME-INSTANT:when(PRED-PERCEP,ACT:awake, EXPER-HUM:he))where D :=OBJ-PHYS.LOC: *, DET:indef,PRED-ATTR:strange.The Other exceptional translations do nothave definite type, but are desirable forreadability of translated sentences when Eng-lish sentences have some long adjective or ad-verbial subordinate clauses or phrases aftertheir rather short principal clause.
Thesesubordinate clauses have generally more concreteand essential meaning than the principal clause.In such cases, if translation is done in theordinary way so that the relation of subordinateclauses to the principal clause remains unchan-ged, the generated Japanese sentence tends tohave a long essential subordinate part followedby a short and rather introductory part of theprincipal clause.
The Japanese sentences thusobtained will often bring about difficulties inimmediate comprehension.
Furthermore, when apart of subordinate clauses is referred in thenext sentence, the immediate identification ofthe anaphora will not be so easy owing toincrease of distance from the referring part asshown in Fig.
3.In such cases a continuative translation ismore preferable.
6 It assigns a location succ-eeding to the principal clause for an equivalentof the subordinate clause.
The subordinate cla-uses are classified to adverbial clauses andadjective ones.In the former case, the subordinate clauseis qualified as a sentence or a coordinate cla-use in a continuative translation.
For a coor-dinate clause, the coordinate conjunction ispreceded which is determined by the ease labelof the adverbial clause and more precisely bythe preposition or the subordinate conjunction.In the latter case, syntactic roles of a pri-ncipal clause and a relative clause are reversedthrough a modified term as follows;s %(K I :t I ,Kz:t 2, ?
?
.,Ka:t~ (K I :sl , ?
?
?
,K?
: ~.,I.
.
.
.
K~:s~ ))I --~ (KL:t ~ (K~:tl, Kz:tz,...,, K~: * )~= K I : s I  , ?
?
, K~:s~ ) 5 )where the double-underlined case means that athematic fronting and addition of a certainthematic postposition is done for the underli-ned case in generation of a Japanese sentence--453--I l PRE0 Iprincipal clausereferredsubord inate  c lause  the  next  sentence(a) a source sentencereferredIparts of subordinate principalprincipal clause clauseclause(b) a Japanese sentencethe next sentenceFig.
3 Order of subordinate and principal clausesfrom the transformed case structure.Example 8Two English sentences'Science deals with sense impressions which aresimilar to make universal agreement possible'and'That all men are all equal describes a proposi-tion to which no sane human being has ever beengiven his assent'are translated into Japanese sentences corres-ponding to'Sense impressions which science deals with aresimilar to make universal agreement possible'and'To a proposition which describes that all menare all equal no sane human being has ever beengiven his assent'respectively.A sentence which contains a kind of appositi-ons is also transformed as follows;(K1:t l , .
, .
,  KL:it, ?
?
.
,  Kk:tk,K~:that(K~:sl, .
.
, K~:sz ))---> (PRED:that(K~:st, .
.
.
, K~:sb ),OBJ:it(K I :t I ,...,KL:*, ?
?
, K~:t~)) (6)where K~ is an apposition case to a case KL.Example 9An English sentence'We should make it clear that they lead thesame conclusion'is translated to a Japanese sentence correspond-ing to'That we should make clear is that they leadthe same conclusion'.5.
ConclusionThe ease structures obtained by parsing orthe transformed case structure are expanded inan appropriate term-order by a Japanese grammarunder various control of the involved paramet-ers.Some experimental results show that thisapproach is effective to dissolve multi-syntac-tic and semantic category problems of words andphrases and efficient to transform case struc-tures.From the view point of more precise andmulti-l ingual translation, it is desirable thatmore precise, detailed and standardized defini-tion is established for case structures andhierarchic category systems and also their codesare attached to some word dictionaries.
It willnot be impossible as far as mechanical trans-lation of technical papers is concerned.Referencesi.
Wilks,Y.~An artificial intelligence approachto machine translation', Schank and Colby(eds.
), Computer models of thought and lan-guage, San Francisco, Freeman,p.l14,(1973).2.
Vauquois,B.,'Aspect of mechanical translationin 1979', GETA,Unlv.Grenoble, (1979).3.
Hornby,A.S.,'Guide to patterns and usage inEnglish',second edition,London, Oxford Uni-versity Press, (1975).4.
Bruce,B.,'Case systems for natural language',Artificial Intelligence,Vol.6,p.327,(1975).5.
Kunihiro,T.,'Structural semantics',Sansei-do,(1976), (written in Japanese).6.
Bekku,S.,'Study of translation',Yashio-shuppan-sha,(1976),(written inJapanese).- -454- -
