RELATIVE SEMANTIC COMPLEXITY IN LEXICAL UNITSBo RalphDepartment of Computational LinguisticsUniversity of G~teborgGSteborg, SwedenSummaryThe lexical component of a humanlanguage is typically heterogeneous andextremely complex.
Before we can cometo grips with the underlying lexicalorganization, we must reduce the be-wi ldering complexity.
Methods must beelaborated by which the interrelationsbetween the units of the lexicon can beelucidated.
This paper describes how aSwedish lexical material stored in acomputer has been semantical ly strati-fied as a stage in the semantic ana-lysis of the items included in the database.
In particular, a minor subset ofthe lexical items, consist ing ofcurrent words in the language, has beenselected as metalanguage in the defini-tions.
It is argued that, in this way,a means of describing the relativesemantic complexity in lexical unitsis provided.IntroductionThe semantic and syntactic inter-relations between the lexical units ofa human language are notoriously com-plex and intricate, whether consideredfrom the individual language-user'spoint of view or from the perspectiveof the collective competence of alanguage community.
Indeed, they areso complex that, when it comes tothorough semantic analysis, scholarshave only been able to handle smallportions of the lexicon at a time.
Thetypical lexico-semantic study hastherefore concerned single lexicalitems or small groups of semanticallyinterrelated items, in particularso-called word-f ields or semanticdomains.On the other hand, there seems tobe a growing sentiment among linguiststhat the lexical component is verybasic to the functioning of language.The crucial role of the lexicon cannot,however, be adequately understood un-less the scope is widened.
Detai ledknowledge is, admittedly, quite in-dispensable in constructing an overallmodel of the lexicon; but large-scalelexical investigations are just asnecessary in order to reveal the under-lying principles of lexical organiza-tion.
Consequently, computer-basedlexicology should rank high as a branchof computational and theoretical lin-guistics.The Heterogeneity of LexiconsLexical inventories that have de-veloped spontaneously do not usuallyconstitute neat and clear-cut systems.They are typically skewed in the sensethat many phenomena which may seem quitemarginal have nonetheless given rise toa rich vocabulary, in contrast to thelexical sparsity characterizing severaldomains that are logically more funda-mental to man.
To take just one example,there are, in Swedish, rather few ex-pressions for eating while there is agreat variety of verbs for making allsorts of noises displaying only minoracoustical (and perceptual) differentia-tion.
Our creative capacity simply seemsto be more nourished by our imaginationwith regard to sounds than by ourimagination with regard to food con-sumption.
That the asymmetry is quitearbitrary is emphasized by the factthat other essential human activit iesmay produce a rich vocabulary.
Forinstance, very fine distinctions can,in Swedish, be expressed monomorphemic-ally in the field of walking.Such disproportions as those justmentioned are basical ly due to histo-rical accidents, i.e.
pure chance, moreor less.
Consequently, they arelanguage-specif ic rather than universaland cannot be ascribed to any generaltendencies in the human mind.
The sameholds for all culture-dependent ex-pressions.
Thus, if the lexicons ofmany languages tend to contain wordsfor buildings and vehicles, it isprimari ly because human beings tend todevelop such things and, secondarily,need to name them.
It can be concludedthat the reason for the recur rence  o fsuch terms in various languages allover the world is not essential ly(psycho) l inguistic but, rather, acorollary of comparable extra-linguisticcircumstances.- -115  -Cultural  condi t ions may also giver ise to other types of lexical  hetero-geneity.
The lexicon of a language maybe v iewed as compr is ing  d i f ferentstrata, some of which conta in commonwords used by everyone, others contain-ing words used exc lus ive ly  by special -ists.
Technica l  language - where "tech-nical" should be taken in a broadsense - in var ious f ields, such as me-dicine, law, economy, technology,  etc.
;some forms of language used in certa inpro fess ions  or by certa in soc ia l ly  de-f ined groups, l ike traders, priests, orout laws - these are examples of voca-bulary strata that are l ikely to beful ly mastered only by re lat ive ly  fewindividuals.
It is to be deplored whenthe language of profess iona l  debaters,for instance in pol i t ics  and esthet ics,also develops in this d irect ion,  as isof ten the case.Other strata of language may bequite fami l iar  to a major i ty  of thelanguage-users  a l though they are lessf requent ly  employed, being tied up withd i f ferent  styles, registers,  or con-textual  settings.
This may apply to thevocabulary  of honor i f ic  language, re-l ig ious language, etc.
Such di f ferent ia-t ion in vocabular ies  as has been exemp-l i f ied here is mani fes ted  in alanguage-spec i f i c  way, but the veryex is tence of d i f fe rent ia t ion  is a uni-versal  trait.
It has been suggestedthat lexical  inventor ies  can be sub-d iv ided into var ious domains obeyingd i f ferent  sets of rules that govern there lat ions between language and real ity.In other words, there may wel l  bevar ious kinds of word meanings (cf.F i l lmore 1978).
5 In format ion about amany-sp lendoured  wor ld  is to be con-veyed by means of language.
The phe-nomena referred to are quite d i f ferentin nature, and so the semantic contentof lexical  items may vary accordingly.In most  authent ic  vocabular iesthere is a gradient  ranging from moreor less purely grammat ica l  operatorsand s t ructure -dependent  items (such asthe copula, connect ives,  quant i f iers ,etc.
), over items that are part lysystem-or iented,  part ly  more semant ic-al ly we ighted (e.g.
pronouns,  deict icexpress ions,  prepos i t ions) ,  all the wayto items simply indexing "encyclopedic"phenomena.
There is much f luctuat ionfrom language to language in this re-gard, since the d iv is ion of labourbetween vocabulary  and grammar propermay vary.
Thus the proport ion of wordswith pr imar i ly  grammat ica l  funct ionsmay di f fer  to a high degree betweenlanguages.
However,  the grammar-or ientedpart of the vocabulary  tends to beshared by most  speakers,  more d i f feren-t iat ion being found at the otherextreme.F i l lmore has ment ioned a number ofways in which languages may di f fer  withrespect  to word semantics.
There aresuch features as re lat ive analyt ic i ty ,i.e.
the degree of semantic trans-parency character i z ing  the total lexicalsystem, taxonomic depth, by which ismeant  the dosage of par t icu lar  as com-pared to gener ic  terms, patterns ofmeaning extension,  areas of synonymyelaborat ion,  co l locat iona l  patterns,etc.
(Fi l lmore 1978, p. 155-157).
5 Infact, d i f ferent  domains with in the voca-bulary  of a single language may vary agreat deal in these respects.
For in-stance, terminology is often, a l thoughnot always, harder  to analyse than arecommon words.
In part icular ,  terminologytends to invite heavy borrowing of for-eign lexical  mater ia l ;  in this way theport ion of arb i t rary  lexical  unitsincreases.It cannot  be doubted that somewherebehind the confus ing complex i ty  of thelexicon there is a clue as to what humanbeings f ind imperat ive to recognize asde l imi ted concepts.
The categor i zat ionre f lected by lexical  inventor ies  is con-s iderably  d isgu ised through the hetero-geneity  which is a basic character i s t i cof the lexical  component,  as has beenemphas ized repeatedly.
As a f irst step,then, methods must  be e laborated bywhich the complex i ty  can be dulyhandled.
In part icular ,  the semanticredundancy of the authent ic  lexiconmust be reduced.Reduc ing RedundancyIt is very natural  in lexico-semantic  analys is  to take word def in i -t ions as a point  of departure.
It canbe argued that a def ined word is seman-t ica l ly  more complex than each word usedin the def in i t ion of that word.
Also,it is a we l l -known fact that circularityvery easi ly  creeps into def in i t ions.A l though c i rcu lar i ty  in def in i t ions  hasoccas iona l ly  been the target of investi-gat ion and has served successfu l ly  as abasis  for determin ing semantic re lated-ness (e.g.
Calzonar i  1977), 2 it should,ideally, be control led.One way of ach iev ing maximal  reduc-tion of semantic redundancy  in the lex~con is, of course, to def ine all lexicalentr ies  by means of an ef fect ive meta-language, e.g.
a minimal  def in ing voca-bulary.
Our interest can then be focused116on this min imal  word- l i s t  on the assump-t ion that it covers the same semanticrange as the complete vocabu lary  def inedby it.
In pract ica l  lex icography,  de-f in ing vocabu lar ies  have been ut i l i zedin, for instance, The General  BasicEngl ish  D ic t ionary  (1942) ; 8 MichaelWest, An In ternat iona l  Reader 's  D ict ion-ary (1965); Iu and, in a pro ject  havingmuch wider  scope and, therefore,  ho ld inggreater  theoret ica l  interest,  inLongman's  D ic t ionary  of ContemporaryEngl ish  (1978).JDef in ing vocabu lar ies  are intui-t ively attract ive.
They seem to capturethe not ion of basic vocabulary,  thegeneral  lexical  subset inc luded ineverybody 's  vocabulary.
In some excep-t ional  cases it is very easy to isolatethis subset.
In Dyirbal ,  for instance,a Queens land  Aust ra l ian  language, thereis a special  vocabu lary  used in certa insocial  contexts;  hence it is re fer red toas "mother - in - law language" (Dixon1971).
4 In this subsystem, Dyangul,  thesame grammat ica l  rules apply, but thevocabu lary  is very res t r i c ted  so that,for instance, each Dyangul  verb corres-ponds to several  in the common language.Therefore,  the Dyangul  vocabu lary  can betaken as a model  for a semantic c lass i -f icat ion of words in Dyirbal.A s l ight  d isadvantage in us ing de-f ining vocabu lar ies  is the level l ing ofdepth in the l inguist ic  analysis.
Thelexicon is cons idered  on two f ixedlevels alone: that of the lexical  en-tr ies and that of the basic  def in ingwords.
As is wel l  known, however,  lexi-cal units play very d i f fe rent  rQleS inthe language they are part  of.
Not in-f requent ly,  the semantic  in ter re lat ionswi th in  g iven sets can only be represent -ed in a mul t i - l ayered  fashion.
I do notwish to c la im that the human lexicon is,in any str ict  sense, h ie rarch ica l ly  or-ganized, but var ious subdiv is ions  of itmay wel l  be.For instance, to catch somethingmeans roughly  'to get hold of something',to f ish means 'to try to catch f ish',~d  W angle means 'to fish with a hookand line'.
Cons is tent  use of a minimaldef in ing vocabu lary  wou ld  y ie ld  def in i -t ions l ike 'to try to get hold of f ishwi th  a hook and line' for to angle.
Thisis by no means a tota l ly  inadequate de-f init ion.
To angle is c lear ly  re lated toverbal  express ions  l ike to get hold of;the semantic re la tedness  becomes appar-ent in a compar ison with other verbs,such as to interrupt,  to sneeze, or totwinkle.
The verbal  acts des ignated byto catch, to fish, and to angle are,however,  not abso lute ly  on a par witheach other.
Both to f ish and to angle"contain" an e lement  of catching.
It canbe argued that they di f fer  from eachother, and from to catch, in the way thecatch ing is specif ied.
To f ish expl ica-tes the object  caught, viz.
'fish'.
Thatf ish is caught is p resupposed by toangle as well,  but with the addi t ionalspec i f i cat ion  of the f ishing method em-ployed.
However,  the two types of speci-f icat ion are not equal wi th  respect  tothe verbal  act 'to catch'.
Whi le  'tocatch' is presupposed as an e lement  into fish, the whole meaning 'to try tocatch fish' is incorporated in to angle.The re lat ions can be expressed bybracket ing  in the fo l lowing manner:to catch - '(to try to get hold of)'to f ish - '(to catch \[= to try toget hold of\] (fish))'to angle - '(to f ish \[= to catch(= to try to get holdof) (fish)\] (with ahook and line))'The c loser  re lat ionsh ip  between to f ishand to angle may be ind icated by makinguse of to f ish in the def in i t ion  of toangle.
Para l le l  t reatment  of pairs  orgroups of verbs to the ef fect  that oneverb may conta in  not only the generalsemantic propert ies  of another verb butactua l ly  the other verb itself  has beensuggested by, among others, B inn ick(1971) I and F i l lmore (1978).
5In fact, this re lat ive semantics t ra t i f i cat ion  of the lexicon is rathers imi lar  to Weinre ich 's  strategy for in-vest igat ing  the semantic content  of thelexical  inventory.
Weinre ich  gives thefo l lowing presentat ion:St ratum 0: terms def inable  onlyc i rcu lar ly  and by os-tens ive def in i t ionSt ratum I: terms whose def in i t ionsconta in only stratum-0terms, but w i thoutc i rcu lar i tySt ratum 2: terms whose def in i t ionsconta in only stratum-0and stratum-1 terms,wi thout  c i rcu lar i tyStratum n: terms whose def in i t ionsconta in  only terms ofstrata 0, I, 2, ... n -I.He conc ludes that the meta language wi l lbe made up of the complete ord inarylanguage except  for s t ratum n (Weinreich1962).
~A s imi lar  l ine of reasoning is atthe bot tom of the organ izat ion  of theSwedish lex ica l  mater ia l  ana lysed in the117 -pro ject  Lex ica l  Data Base, carr ied outat the Department  of Computat iona l  Lin-guist ics,  Univers i ty  of GSteborg.
A mi-nimal def in ing vocabulary  is, in pr in-ciple, ut i l i zed in def in i t ions.
In add i -tion, however,  words not inc luded in thedef in ing vocabulary  proper are occas ion-al ly a l lowed in def in i t ions,  with therequ i rement  that they should be ult i -mate ly  reducib le  to str ict  def in ingvocabulary  units.
The minimal  def in ingvocabulary  compr ises words denot ing veryfundamental  concepts  per ta in ing  tophys ica l  e lements  and forces, geometr ic -al notions, topographica l  propert ies,state and movement,  location, time,causat ion,  basic organisms,  physica land mental  funct ions of organisms,  etc.,as well  as more cu l ture -sens i t ive  andconvent iona l i zed  concepts,  such ascolours,  artefacts,  social  condit ions,and the like.A larger subset than the def in ingvocabulary  is the so-ca l led ful ly de-f ined vocabulary.
This part of the voca-bulary is prov ided with e laborated de-f init ions.
Together  with the def in ingvocabulary  it makes up the semantic  hardcore of the lexicon taken as a whole.
Weare not l ikely to f ind more candidatesfor this part  of the vocabulary  nomatter  how much mater ia l  is inc luded inthe data base.
Instead, new mater ia ltends to be of a more speci f ic  kind,e.g.
terminology known by only a fewpeople, a lmost  obsolete words, non-permanent  compounds that have barelypassed the threshold of lex ica l izat ion,but which are easi ly  ana lysable  in termsof the we l l -de f ined  part  of the voca-bulary; in short, words which do not addanyth ing further to the basic  semanticsystem of the lexicon.
These latteritems are not ass igned any proper def i -n i t ions but are semant ica l ly  spec i f iedmore summari ly.Thus the data base is, in prin-ciple, d iv ided into three strata:(I) the ~ ?
i ~ _ ~ !
~ X ,  whoseunits are axiomat ic  in a logic-al sense and highly rest r ic tedin number;(2) the ~!
!x def ined vocabulary,whose units have carefu l lyformulated def in i t ions  based onthe def in ing vocabulary;(3) the ~ K ~ h ~ _ ~ 2 ~ !
~ Z ,whose units are semant ica l lydescr ibed by approximat ion.In l ine with the above reasoning asregards re lat ive semantic complexi ty,we a l low ent i t ies  from the ful ly def inedvocabulary  to enter into def in i t ions.They are u l t imate ly  reducib le  tode f in ing-vocabu lary  units.
The def in i -t ions are more e legant ly  formulated inthis manner, but, in part icular ,  theinter re lat ions  between lexical  items aremore revea l ing ly  stated.
Such an ap-proach, bu i ld ing on extens ive lexicalc ross - re ferenc ing,  impl ies several  theo-ret ical  commitments.
Therefore,  itshould be emphas ized  that the data basedescr ibed here is a imed at contr ibut ingto \ [~X~!
l~ the semantic in terre lat ionsbetween lexical  items, in the f irstplace.
This, however,  should not betaken to mean that our goal has been anideal u l t imate representat ion  of thesemantic structure in the lexicon.Invest igat ing  Relat ive SemanticComplex i tyCareful  se lect ion of def in ing unitsand adequate def in i t iona l  formats are aprerequ is i te  for an acceptable  result  ofthe empir ica l  work under way.
It is truethat lex icographers  involved in pract ic-al undertak ings  natura l ly  seek to attaincons is tent  and adequate formulat ions indef in i t ions.
The requ i rement  is evenstronger if semant ic  structure is themain object  of analysis.Mono l ingua l  d ic t ionar ies  usua l lytake the reader 's  knowledge of thelanguage in quest ion for granted.
As aconsequence,  the def in i t ions  may not beexpl ic i t  enough.
For instance, theSwedish causat ive verbs fylla, glSdga,runda, sl~ta, sv~rta all agree in focus-ing on the result  of the respect iveactivities.
In a standard dict ionary,ISO, 6 they are def ined by verbal  phrasesvery s imi lar to each other in structure:Verb Def in i t ionfyl la'to fill'g l~dga'to makeglowing'runda'to round'sl~ta'to smooth'sv~rta'to blacken'g~ra fu l l'to make full'g~ra g l~dande'to make glowing'g~ra rund(are)'to make round(er) 'g~ra sl~t'to make smooth'g~ra svart'to make black'However,  the verb of the paraphrases,g~ra 'to make', impl ies quite d i f ferentact iv i t ies  in the respect ive  cases, per-haps something like 'to regulate' ,  'totreat' ,  'to shape', 'to grind',  and 'tocolour' .
By a iming at this h igher de-gree of exact i tude,  we both acquire abetter  knowledge of the basic semanticpropert ies  of the lexical  entr ies para-phrased and obtain good candidates  for118the eventual defining vocabulary.Although the material is stored inand manipulated by the computer, intui-tion and Sprachgef~hl play dominantroles in this work.
Therefore, it isurgent to employ methods which may guideour intuitions in a favourable direc-tion.
Since, in Swedish, there is no"mother-in-law language", the units ofthe defining vocabulary have to be de-termined by a number of methods with thejoint goal of finding the minimal work-able set of defining words.
One impor-tant method implies large-scale para-phrasing of verbs.
In a first round, weconcentrate on such verbs as have equi-valent paraphrases involving the basemorpheme of the original verb, retainedin the verb complement in the para-phrase.
Such verbs are, for instance,the following:Verb Verb paraphrasebind-a'to bind'~xkl-a'to cycle'fisk-a'to fish'~ l -na'to turnyellow'hamr-a'to hammer'kant-a'to edge'~-a'to makeconvex '~-~' to  saw itor-ka'to dry'tvivl-a'to doubt'festa med band'to fix with a band'~ka (med/p~) ~ !
'to go by bicycle'f~nga risk'to catch fish'bli 9ul(are)'to become (more)yellow'sl~ med hammare'to hit with a hammer'f~rse med kan~(er)'to provide with anedge (or: edges)'forma ku~-i~'to shape convex'kapa med s~H'to cut with a saw'g~ra Loll(are)'to make dry (or:drier)'k~nna tvivel'to feel doubt'The Swedish paraphrases are justas natural as the simple verbs in theexamples given.
There are hundreds ofanalogous cases.
In a host of otherexamples, there are quite conceivableparaphrases of basically the same kind,although less conventional ized as col-locations.
The following verbs are ofthis type:Verb Verb paraphraseblSd-a'to bleed'~\[~-!
'to whiff'fuml-a'to fumble'h~-!
'to buy'pensl-a'to paint'~!~-~'to pain'skrik-a'to cry'~!-~'to pile'~\[~-~'to grieve'tr~l-a'to toil'uts6ndra blod'to give off blood'fiska med d~rj'to fish with awhiffing-line'bete sig fuml-igt'to act fumblingly'f~rv~rva genom k~'to acquire throughpurchase'bestryka med ~ !
'to paint with abrush'~samka R!~H-a (or:~a~-or)'to cause pain'utstSta skrik'to ejaculate a cry'uppl~gga i ~ !
'to arrange in a pile'k~nna sq\[~'to feel grief'arbeta som en tr~l'to work like a slave'The verbs of the paraphrases areusually deprived of much of the specificcontent characterizing the original,simple verbs.
They emphasize the purelyverbal element in the respective events.Most of the specific meaning lies, in-stead, in the verb complement in theparaphrases.
It is easily seen that theparaphrase verbs represent differentdegrees of abstractness, i.e.
they aresemantically complex to a varying ex-tent.
They are always, however, lesscomplex than the corresponding simpleverbs they derive from in the analysis.Considering the resemblance of theseverbs to pronouns and other pro-forms,"pro-verb" would be a fitting term.Once the set of verbs to be used inparaphrases is established, it may alsobe employed for verbs with morphologic-ally dissimilar paraphrases.
For in-stance, ~iska 'to love' : hysa k~rlekI to feel love , may be classif ied to-gether with other verbs of emotion.
Asimilar mode of analysis may also beapplied to such verbs as cannot be as-sociated with paraphrases in any appar-ent way: drabba 'to afflict', h~mta 'tofetch', m~rka 'to notice', etc.As to the formats of the defini-tions, it is obvious that the para-phrases signal some fundamental proper-ties of the paraphrased verbs, besides119 "the nature of the respect ive reducedverb.
Some verbs incorporate an instru-ment, even morpho log ica l ly  recognizab le(cykla, d~r~a, s~ga, etc.
),  others anobject  impl ied in the event (bl~da,kanta);  sti l l  others focus on the resultof the event (gulna, skrika, stapla,torka), or on the phenomenon or stateperce ived by an exper iencer  (pl~ga,sofia).
A class which is potent ia l lyvery large integrates an adverb ia l  spe-c i f i cat ion of the event i tself  ratherthan the actants involved (e.g.
l inka'to l imp', por la 'to purl ' ,  t indra 'totwinkle') .Re lat ions  s imi lar  to those obta in-ing between verbs and verbal  phraseswi th in  a language may be found if cor-responding verbal  express ions  are com-pared across languages.
This is a wide-spread and natural  method for re inforc-ing observat ions  on patterns of languagestructure.
In certa in lexical  domainsone language may have deve loped single(i.e.
re la t ive ly  arbitrary) verbs, whi leanother  language may express the samecontent  by phrases.
For instance, thereis a large family of mot ion verbs inboth Engl ish and Swedish.
In Japanese,the same meanings are usual ly  renderedby var ious forms of the basic verb for'to walk' (aruku) augmented by one of anumber of mimet ic  adverb ia l  elements.Interest ingly ,  some adverbs of thephrasal  co l locat ions  thus ar is ing inJapanese are, themselves,  l imited to avery rest r ic ted  context.
This amountsto saying that the phrases are just aslex ica l ized as the s ingle verbs in Eng-l ish and Swedish (cf.
F i l lmore 1978).
3Transfer r ing  this inter l ingual  com-par ison to one language only, we maynote that verbal  paraphrases  lend them-selves to c lass i f i ca tory  work in an ana-logous way.
Verbs may be more or lessproduct ive  as pro-verbs in paraphrases,they may estab l ish  more or less naturalparaphrases,  they may occur  in phraseswhich have cor respond ing  single verbsor not, they may be more or less syno-nymous or antonymous to verbs estab l ish-ed as pro-verbs,  etc.
By compar ing dif-ferent pro-verbs and their  respect iveparaphrases  with each other we may alsofind that a pro-verb may occur in theparaphrase of another  pro-verb,  thusproduc ing semantic l inks of the typed iscussed above.
In such cases, the re-lat ive semantic  complex i ty  is c lear lyrecognizable.Verbs, in part icular ,  are h ighlyreward ing in such work as has been des-cr ibed here.
Other word c lasses are,however,  access ib le  to bas ica l ly  thesame type of analysis .
Of course, we areaware of many problems connected withthis approach,  e.g.
the quest ion  of syn-tact ic compat ib i l i ty  between or ig ina li tems and their  paraphrases,  the rela-t ive arb i t rar iness  in se lect ing def in ingunits, etc.
Furthermore,  there are manyfeatures in the approach resembl ing  ge-nerat ive semantic  theory of the ear ly1970's (and, inc identa l ly ,  the work out-l ined in Mel '~uk and Zolkovski j  19697and elsewhere);  consequent ly ,  the sametype of c r i t i c i sm as has been ra isedagainst  that theory appl ies to the pre-sent work.We do not f ind this too embarrass -ing.
Our work is ch ief ly  empir ical ,s tart ing with observable  facts, i.e.
thewords themselves,  gradual ly  eat ing ourway down into deeper semantic  structure.Thus, in a way, we are work ing in theopposi te  d i rect ion compared with thegenerat ive  semant ic ists .
We have no wishto reduce all lexical  items to a singleunder ly ing  category of units, and we arenot prepared to press all lexical  itemsinto one basic semant ic  schema.
Rather,we hope to be able to shed some l ight onthe r ichness of the semantic  system ofSwedish, by e laborat ing a semant ica l lybased conver t ib i l i ty  system.
The methodwe have used seems to us to provide aversat i le  means to such an end.ReferencesI.
Binnick,  R.I. 1971.
Br ing and Come.L ingu is t ics  Inquiry  2.
260-265.2.
Calzolar i ,  N. 1977.
An Empir ica lApproach to C i rcu lar i ty  in D ict ionaryDef in i t ions.
Cahiers  de lex ico logie31.
118-128.3.
D ic t ionary  of Contempor@ry  Engl ish.1978.
Har low & London: Longman.4.
Dixon, R.M.W.
1971.
A Method of Se-mant ic  Descr ipt ion.
Semantics,  ed.by D.D.
Ste inberg and L.A. Jakobcvi~.Cambridge: Un ivers i ty  Press.5.
F i l lmore, C.J.
1978.
On the Organiza-tion of Semantic  In format ion in theLexicon.
Papers from the Parasess ionon the Lexicon, ed.
by D. Farkas etal.
Chicago: Chicago L inguist icSociety.
148-173.6.
ISO = I l lust rerad svensk ordbok.
1977.3rd ed., 3rd pr.
Stockholm: Natur ochKultur.7.
Mel '~uk, I.A.
and A.K.
~olkovski j .1969.
Towards a Funct ion ing  'Meaning-Text' Model  of Language.
Essays onLexical  Semantics,  Vol.
II, ed.
by120V.Ju.
Rozencvejg.
1974.
Stockholm:Skriptor.
1-52.8.
The General Basic English Diction-ary, ed.
by C.K.
Ogden.
1942.
NewYork: W.W. Norton & Co.9.
Weinreich, U.
1962.
LexicographicDefinit ion in Descriptive Semantics.Problems in Lexico@raphy, 2nd ed.
byF.W.
Householder and S. Saporta1967.
Bloomington: Indiana Uni-versity.
25-44.10.
West, M. 1965.
An InternationalReader's Dictionary.
London:Longman.-121
