CONNOTATION AS A FORM OF I ~qFERENC EJB BERTHELIN, University of Essex (language and l ingu is t ics ) ,  Wivenhoe Pk,COLCHESTER C043Sq, GREAT BRITAIN,and INSTITUT DE PROGRAMMATION, Universit~ Paris 6, 75230 PARIS CEDEX 05, FRANCE.AbstractStory-processing systems have to deal, or avoiddealing, with INFERENCE CONTROL ' '6 '  I i ,  13.when designing one such system 2, we were great-ly helped by the "(ERC)RC" expression for con-notation I.
Our system is specialised in multi -faceted descriptions of characters (not, how-ever, in the most d i f f i cu l t  problems of beliefsabout beliefs 4 and 8): here we present anotheraspect of the story character processing, name-ly the recursive EXPLANATION of inconsistenciesappearing in the description of a character.We give a very schematic system overview, thensome details about the CONNOTATION rules and anexample of their  application to a story.posed to ("fromage" RC("cheese")) RC("french"),but also s i tuat ion-speci f ic  ones, as ("cheese"RC("cheese as geological stuf f")  RC("bizarre"),in the processing of a robot who asked what themoon is made of.
As Barthes then remarks, con-notations may be based on a set of in i t ia l  ex-pressions rather than on a single one, which isexpressed by (EiRCl, E2RC 2 .
.
.
.
.
EnRCn) R CThis seems to be an essential feature of conno-tations, since i t  allows emphasis on 'connoted'contents by means of an accumulation of signi-f iers .
Another feature, elegantly i l lust ratedin ' l 'envers des signes ' i0 by the two steps( ("vo i le"  RC("navire"))RC("po~sie"))RC("rh~to-r ique"),  is their  recurs iv i ty.IntroductionThe allusiveness of human languages, in additionto being quite convenient in social l i fe ,  jus t i -fies the use of variable amounts of i n t e 1 -1 i g e n c e in processing a sentencer accor-ding to the number of reasoning steps leadingto a position where a satisfactory reaction be-,14 comes possible, l ike "to redefine 'substancewhen reading Spinoza".
Let us represent a f i r s tstep by "ERC" i .e.
"an expression is relatedto a content ''1, which Barthes calls the denota-tion: the second reasoning step wi l l  be repre-sented in the connotation formula: " (ERC) RC".I t  does not determine exactly where the reaso-ning step leads to: i f  we write E's content asC(E), we may have quite general connotationsl ike ("cheese"RC("cheese"))RC("english") as op-As a beginning we made an attempt to expressthis in AI terms by writ ing a program, BAQUIL,which finds the connotations with structure(E IRCi, E2RC2)RC in a recursive way.
The interestof such connotations can be shown by15:.a doctor asks:"how is he feeling ?
".the nurse answers:"he is groaning.
"where the nurse means, by connotation,that thepatient is suffering: ("groaning" RC("groaning")RC("suffering)), but our understanding is direc-ted by the previous interrogation, so that thedef in i t ive result we expect from our system wi l lbe ("feel ing"RC("feel ing"),  "groaning"RC("groa-ning") )RC("suffering").
This result shall bereached by consulting a semantic network and ob-serving that 'groaning' is not exactly a case of' fee l ing ' ,  but an expression of i t .
Thus " thenurse means he is suffering" is both a conno-tation and an inference, and seemingly a usefulone: compare with Charniak's 6 "demon-demon in-228teraction, 'want to buy candies' and 'shakepiggy-bank' together tr igger 'need money'; butBAQUIL has no such extended world-knowledge.
I tis specialised in DISCOURSE ATTITUDES l ike 'er-rors ' ,  ' l i es ' ,  ' jokes' etc.
This also means i tcan run without an elaborate model 5 of persona-l i t i es ,  and so deal with fables and folktalesabout foxes and sparrows, which would perhapsfa i l  to have goals 'common to most people', al-though they are meant as human in a way.System overviewBefore explaining how i t  works, we give an ideaof BAQUIL's construction ( i .e .
i ts  hierarchy)./ ".,/INPUT /HAl t  14, ~ , .
j,~ ,, ,.
,,o u'rP~JT?~/Al~Acr~l~,V'-"\~ ~-scmrr'lo~ \ ou~vr--229--Schema.tic explanation of  how the system runsi) the dictionary input procedure builds, from af i l e  whose structure is shown in the ' samplesession ' ,  a classical semantic network 7 '9" ' '2) the story special ist  submits sentences to aparser 12 and the resulting case structuresto the story character specia l ist ,  whose ac-tions include the c o m p a r i s o n s andi n f e r e n c e s detailed here.3) output procedures express the inferences inEnglish and, on request, detail the repre-sentation of each character in the story.Metarules of BAQUIL(this page and the following three wi l l  developwhat rules are applied by the story characterspecial ist:  this includes METARULES, RULES OFCOMPARISON and INFERENCE RULES.
)MI BAQUIL starts a connotation or inference on-ly when a comparison rule has been appliedto a pair of predicates which are related tothe set of descriptors of one character: thepredicates are versions of the semantic casestructure in terms of the current characterdescription, and are called 'NOTATIONS'M2 Except when specified otherwise (inferencerules R6, R7), the inference is expressedby a 'notation' whose verb is a subcatego-ry of either CHANGE or INCONSISTENCY.consistency.
The metarules are represented in BA-QUIL by instructions: Mi in the NOTATION proce-dure, M2 and M3 in the CONNOTATION procedure.The la t ter  also contain the instruction corres-ponding to the inference rules, while the com-parison rules form the comparison procedure.Discussion of the metarulesM1expresses the hypothesis that many interes-ting antinomies can be detected during thepairwise matching of predicates concerningone story character.
"M2 aims to expres a more or less syntacticfinding about the description of a charac-ter (co-presence of two antinomic 'notations')in terms of the 'notations' themselves.M3 means "use the lexical taxonomy when tryingto recognize a s i tuat ion";  as a result i t  in-troduce a dist inct ion between natural languages,for the subcategories of (for instance) "incon-sistency" are not the same in di f ferent dic-t ionariesl  Consider French and English, "error"and "mistake" vs. "erreur" and "m@rise", orworse: the two cases of "to te l l  a l ie"  in Rus-sian, i .e.
"vrat ' "  vs. " l 'gat ' " .
S t i l l  i t  isperhaps acceptable to allow for importantpragmatic divergences between languages (and,indeed, dialects or sociolects.)
Moreover, wedid not represent the vocabulary of other lan-guages than French and English in our system,so we lack precisions about how "whorfian" i twould turn out.M3 Those subcategories are examined in thedictionary order and the f i r s t  one whichpermits the application of an inferencerule is selected.To sum up: (M1) comparison and then inferenceabout (M3) subcat(gories of (M2) change or in-Although a similar discussion of the comparisonand inference rules would be necessary, we wi l lsimply present them here along with some exam-ples.
The examples are taken from a set of 20stories (4 to 200 sentences)which were dealtwith by the system at Essex in 1979-1980.--230--Compari son rules Exagpl e s.Their object is to te l l  whether an inferencemust be started, or not.C1 the predicates d i f fer  only by a negation inone of them ( i .e .
same environment, verb etc.and none was inferred.
)C1 Confucius is handsome, Confucius is not hand-some (in which case 'handsome' need not bea pr ior i  present in the lexicon.)
.C2 similar to C1 but there is a hyponymy be-tween the verbs.C2 Confucius is horr ible,  Confucius is not ugly.C3 lexical exclusion between the verbs of twoaff irmative predicates.C4 transgression of lexical interd ict ion,  orlexical necessity ignored.C5 C1, C2 or C3 applies and the f i r s t  predicateexpresses an inference.C3 Confucius is r ich,  Confucius is broke.C4 Confucius is human and f l i es  away.
( interd ict ion)Confucius f l i es  away, he does not exist .
(necessity)C5 the systeminferred Confucius is ly ing,  thestory reveals he is joking ( l ike C3).C6 a predicate confirms an inference.C7 a predicate confirm a discarded inference.
(this occurs after a C5 situation led tothe application of the relevant inferencerule.
)C6 in the situation above, Lao-tsu says thatConfucius is lying BEFORE the story discon-firms i t .C7 Lao-tsu's remark comes AFTER the revisionof the inference.The predicate or 'notat ion'  structure, whichpermits the comparison, is(aff i rmat.-or-neg.,  case frame, char.
descr.
)and the connotation has the same structure aug-mented by reference to premises ( 2, 3 or a l i s tof pairs i f  an inference has been confirmed.
)The lexicon element has following slots ini ts  structure:( l i s t  of subcategories, are-they-mutually-ex-c lusive-or-not,  supercategory, property l i s t )and the property l i s t  contain references toother lexical elements.--231-Connotation rules: exam~esAs the rules by themselves do not suggest thesituations which make them useful, l e t ' s  havesome examples f i r s t .RI .
.
.
the  servant said: "that cow is not goingto eat you."
( .
.
. )
The next morning, shesees one of them is missing and says: "Ohmy God !
the grey cow ate one of these men"..INFERENCE ABOUT THE SERVANT'S VIEW OF THECOW.R2 (same example as RI).ACCORDING TO THE SERVANT, THE COW UNDERWENTA CHANGE.R3 A teacher quoting Krylov said that God senta cheese to a raven; a chi ld objects thatthere is no God..INFERENCE ABOUT AN INCONSISTENCY; USING THELEXICAL CONNEXION BETWEEN THE TOPIC 'God' AND' re l ig ious discourse',  BAQUIL SELECTS THATKIND OF INCONSISTENCY.R4 the peasant believes that the tree wi l l  beh i t  by other rabbits..
But i t  is not..INFERENCE: ERROR OF THE PEASANT.tween levels of discourse independently ofwhich character the inference is about, R3 andR5 make use of some knowledge associated e i ther ,as in the examples, with the name of the charac-ter ,  or with previous sentences about i t ,  e.g.
'Krylov is an author' could be part of the be-ginning of the story.R3 and R5, which connect the inference with apreviously observed deta i l ,  are "causal i ty"rules: in addition to references to the twopremises whose comparison started i t ,  the in-ference has one reference to the predicatethat jus t i f i ed  the choice of a more preciseverb l ike ' f i c t ion '  or ' j oke ' .A d i f f i cu l ty  (which we provis ionnal ly avoided)is that some lexical  connections could repre-sent 'necessary t ruths '  that are just  sometimestrue, as "teachers are sometimes igorant";  whatR5 should do with them is not clear.
However, i fone considers fo lkta les  and fables, the dict ion 2nary connection one uses are almost always"foxes are sly,  fu l l  stop"so the question does not arise.R5 (continuation of example for  R3)the teacher answers that there is no cheeseeither..INFERENCE ABOUT AN INCONSISTENCY; USING THELEXICAL CONNECTION BETWEEN 'Krylov' AND 'au-thor ' ,  AND ONE FROM 'author' TO ' f i c t ion ' ,BAQUIL SELECTS THE LATTER SUBCATEGORY OFINCONSISTENCY.A d i f f i cu l ty  for R3 is that a ' top ic '  could beconnected both to ' re l ig ious  discourse' and' j oke ' ,  so in the present state of the systemone of the connections would be systematicallyignored: but for  the time being, there are veryfew lexical  connections, the reason being thatwe cannot decide which necessary truths rea l lybelong in a lexicon.While the other rules exp lo i t  comparisons be-232 -BAQUIL's connotation rules'references' are the two in i t ia l  premises of theinference; 'hypotheses come from the l i s t  ofsubcategories of the in i t ia l  verb, i .e .
thed i f fe rent  cases of 'change' or ' inconsistency'as represented in the lexicon.R1 i f  both references are about the same charac-ter descriptor,  the inference is also aboutthat descriptor.
(this allows for storiesinside the story).R2 i f  the inference's verb is not yet specif iedand the inference is about the descriptor ofthe second reference, BAQUIL t r ies  the casesof 'change'.Rules R6 and R7 are i l l us t ra ted  by the storyof the vegetarian wolf: given a dict ionarywhich connects 'wolf '  to 'bad act ion ' ,  henceto ' l i e ' ,  the system f i r s t  infers from the be-ginning of the story, where the wolf is con-tradicted by someone, that i t  l i es ;  la ter ,the s to ry - te l l ing  warns the reader about i t ,te l l ing  exp l i c i t l y  that i t  does not.
The in-ference is NOT erased, but earmarked as fa l la -cious; so R7 applies when a character says:this wolf is ly ing;  but, i f  the story hadnot denied the poss ib i l i ty  of a l i e ,  R6 wouldhave applied.
One can see that R6, R7 and R8are not quite sat is fy ing.
I suspect them ofbeing in need of some refinement.
The set ofs ituations 'c lever character or lucky guessor etc . '
is not c lear ly  defined, and I do notknow what to do with the L iar 's  Paradox.R3 i f  the verb of a hypothesis is connected tothe name of the character in a reference bya 'be about' l ink ,  the hypothesis is selec-ted.On the contrary, R3 and R5 give less trouble.This is shown by the 'sample session' nextpage, representing approximately 1.8 secondCPU (using about 25K core) on a PDP-iO.R4 i f  one reference comes from a 'be l ie f '  andthe other from the ' s to ry - te l l ing ' ,  the verbof the inference should be 'e r ro r ' .R5 i f  the verb of a hypothesis is connected toi ts  character's name by a 'tendency' l ink ,the hypothesis is selected.RULES APPLIED: C4 " lexical  necessity"R3 "topic"R6 i f  a character's discourse matches an infe-rence, BAQUIL checks whether the characteris clever or has made a lucky guess etc.R5 "tendency"C3 " lexical  exclusion"R71if the s to ry - te l l ing  contradicts an inferen-and~ce, the inference is 'discarded';  i f  theR8Ydiscarded inference is matched by a discour-se, one looks for an 'e r ror '  or ' t r i ck '  etc.- 233- -SamPle session(DICTIONARY INPUT)WORDSFOOD ISA SUBSTANCESHORT ISA STATETEACHER ISA MANQUOTE ISA DISCOURSEAUTHOR ISA MANKRYLOV ISA AUTHORWRITE ISA DISCOURSESAY ISA DISCOURSEGOD ISA PUTATIVE BEINGCHEESE ISA FOODRAVEN ISA BIRDCHILD ISA MANPRODUCE INCONSISTENCY ISA DISCOURSE(comment: abbreviated PRODINC)LIE ISA PRODINCMISTAKE ISA PRODINCJOKE ISA PRODINCILLUSION ISA PRODINCRELIGIOUS DISCOURSE ISA PRODINCFICTION ISA PRODINCBE ABOUT ISA DISCOURSEMEAN ISA DISCOURSEIGNORANT ISA STATEEND WORDSLINKSUSUAL(AUTHOR, FICTION)USUAL(CHILD, IGNORANT)USUAL(IGNORANT, MISTAKE)BE ABOUT(RELIGIOUS DISCOURSE, GOD)FORBIDE(RELIGIOUS DISCOURSE, QUOTE)comment: that is to account for the locationbeing Soviet Russia.NECESSITY(ACTION, EXIST)NECESSITY(ACTION, AVAILABLE)(STORY INPUT)Food was short.A teacher quoted Krylov.He said that Krylov wrote:'God sent a cheese to the raven.
'A child said:'There is no God !
'but the teacher replied'there is no cheese,either .
.
.
'THE END(INFERENCES)(God sent a cheese1(there is no GodC4 in description of God and R3/God:"the child means Krylov has a rel igiousdiscourse".
(Krylov has a rel ig ious discourse2(the teacher quotes KrylovC4 in description of Krylov and default:"the child means the teacher has an inconsis-tent discourse".
(God sent a cheese3(there is no cheeseC4 in description of cheese and R5/Krylov:"the teacher means Krylov's discourse is f i c -t ion".
(Krylov has a rel igious discourse4 (Krylov's discourse is f i c t ionC3 in description of Krylov and R5/child:"the teacher means the child is mistaken"END OF INFERENCESEND LINKS END OF SESSION-234-ConclusionWhile not achieving much by i t se l f ,  Baquil is2 an important component of the larger systemcurrently bui l t  at Paris 6, and could probablyalso be integrated in a large AI MT system asan expert of indirect descriptions of charac-ters, for instance i t  could recognize the useof a nationality adjective suggesting a charac-ter t ra i t  (Cretan for l i a r ,  etc.)
,  which ishelpful in many cases: when the nationalityadjective is not famil iar in the target lan-guage (Chines texts about the ancient king-doms), but also when there are several possibleinterpretations for the nationality adjectivein terms of personality ( 'qua' ambiguity).References (i0~ GENETTE: Figures I ,  Paris, 1966.
(1) BARTHES: Elements of semiology, Hill andWang, New York.
(2) BERTHELIN and SABAH: Le traitement despersonnages, congr~s AFCET-IRIA, Toulouse1979.
(11) HAYES: The logic of frames, in METZING, edoFrames, conceptions and text understanding,De Gruyter, 1980.
(12) SABAH: A contribution to story understan-ding, thesis at Universit~ Paris 6, 1978.
(3) BIEN: Toward a multiple environments modelof NL, IJCAI-4.
(13) SCHANK and ABELSON: Scripts, plans, goalsand understanding, LEA, 1977.
(4) BIEN and WILKS: Speech acts and multipleenvironments, IJCAI-6.
(14) WILKS: Grammar, meaning and the computeranalysis of language, RKP, 1972(5) CARBONNELL: Computer model of human per-sonality t ra i ts ,  IJCAI-6.
(15) WITTGENSTEIN: Philosophical Investigations,Blackwell, 1953.
(6) CHARNIAK: Toward a model of children storyunderstanding, thesis at MIT, 1972.
(7) CHOURAQUI: Sur un r~seau s~mantique act i f ,congr~s AFCET-IRIA, Toulouse 1979.IJCAI-4 and IJCAI-6 refer to the Proceedings ofthe international Joint Conferences on Ar t i f i -cial Intelligence.
(8) CLARK and MARSHALL: Mutual knowledge anddefinite reference, mimeo, Stanford Univ.
(9) FAHLMAN: Representing everyday knowledge,MIT, 1977.The story in the sample session is adapted from"The Big Red Joke Book" by Benton and Loomes,Pluto Press, London, 1979.--235--
