EMBEDDED SUBLANGUAGES AND NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSINGRichard EittredgeUniversit~ de MontrEalAbstractMost  recent systems for the large-scaleintelligent processing of natural language textsare designed to accept only a restricted varietyof language.
In certain cases this restrictedsubseto of the language constitutes a sublan-guage, for which it may  be possible to write arelatively precise and compact  sublanguagegrammar .
Several research groups are cur-rently exploiting the restrictions in scientificand technical sublanguage grammars  for taskssuch as information retrieval and automatictranslation.At present the notion of sublanguage is ratherloosely defined, or variously understood.There is no rigorous procedure for determin-ing whether an arbitrary corpus of texts belongsto the same sublanguage, or deciding what thelimits of grammatical i ty and acceptability for agiven sublanguage are.
The tendency has beento assume that texts which are produced insimilar communicat ive  situations and whichrefer to some delimited universe of discoursemust  be f rom the same sublanguage.
Thisassumpt ion is reinforced by the discovery ofspecial structural properties, lexical colloca-tions, etc.
in the sentences and texts of afunctionally and semantically homogeneouscorpus.
Not only is the vocabulary of a spe-cialized sublanguage more  limited than thevocabulary of the general language, but thevery special lexical co-occurrence restrictionsare equivalent to a statement of the possibleproperties and relations between the objects ofthe universe which is the subject matter of thesublanguage in question.A detailed study of several sublanguages ofEnglish and French  has focussed on certainaspects of text structure and lexical selectionwhich are important for automatic processingof sublanguage texts as well as for a clarifica-tion of the defining properties of sublanguage..It is known that a sublanguage text may havedifferent subsections which differ sharply intheir sentence structure, textual linkingdevices, etc.
An  obvious case in the divisionin technical manuals  into descriptive and pro-cedural (maintenance) subsections.
Moreelusive is the sub-division of certain scientifictexts into (i) a science language component,describing the properties of objects and rela-tions between them in the domain  of scientificinquiry and (2) a meta-sc ience component,describing the relationship of the observer tohis methods  and results.
Such a division hasbeen pointed out (but not studied in detail) bothby Harris (1968) in his theoretical discussion ofsublanguage and by Sager (197Z) in her study ofthe sublanguage of experimental pharmacology.The two components  may be present in thesame sentence, as when a clause of sciencesublanguage is embedded under a rneta-sciencepredicate.
Such embeddings also show up inweather synopses.
Their proper analysis isa prerequisite to the choice of proper parsingstrategy and dictionary construction for theautomatic analysis of these texts.A different kind of subdivision can be found inthe language of stock market  reports where  asublanguage describing the trading activity onvarious stock exchanges can be embedded in amuch broader (sub)language describing theworld of government  decisions, internationalevents and the like, and their effects on themarket.
The way  in which this embeddingoccurs is related to the level of user of thetext.
Typically, however, causal sentences areadjoined to the right of nar row sublanguagesentences under special conjunctions in a waysuggestive of a right ideal in a ring, as out-lined in Harris' theoretical study.
The nar rowsublanguage portion of the text is distinct, bothlexically and grammatically, f rom the right-adjoined sentences f rom the broader languageset.
A parser must  be able to recognize thesejunctures and exploit the restrictions found inthe nar row (embedded) sublanguage withoutfailing to parse the sentences of the loosematr ix .The  junctures  between embedded sub languagesand  matr ix  por t ions  of text can  a l so  be  v iewedin te rms of the l ink ing proper t ies  found in bothsubsect ions .
The  scope  and  type of l ink ingfound in each  subcomponent  may be  quitedistinct.
Ru les  of anaphora  mustbe  const ra in -ed  to operate  w i th in  a par t i cu la r  subcomponent .The  proposed  paper  wi l l  p resent  and  d iscusssevera l  of the above-ment ioned  proper t ies--209--observed in the embedded sublanguages ofstock-market reports, meteorological synopsesand mathematics texts.
Some conclusions willbe drawn for the relationship between varioustypes of sublanguages and the language as awhole, and implications discussed for thedesign of intelligent text-processors.-210--
