COMPUTATIONAL ANALYSIS OF PREDICATIONAL STRUCTURES IN ENGLISHV Henry KuceraBrown UniversityProvidence, R.I., U.S.A.SummaryThe results of a computationalanalysis of all predications, finiteand non-finite, in a one-mil l ion-wordcorpus of present-day American English(the "Brown Corpus") are presented.The analysis shows the nature of thesyntactic differences among the variousgenres of writ ing represented in thedata base, especial ly between informa-tive prose and imaginative prose.
Theresults also demonstrate that syntacticcomplexity, if defined as the number ofpredications per sentence, is not di-rectly predictable from sentence length.The purpose of this paper is topresent an outline of the proceduresand the summary of the results of acomputational analysis of the structureof predications in a large and repre-sentative sample of English texts.
Thispaper is thus intended both as a contri-bution to the discussion of computation-al techniques in l inguistics and as astudy of l inguistic performance.The data base for this research wasa one-mil l ion-word corpus of present-dayAmerican English, original ly assembledby W. N. Francis and Henry Ku~era atBrown University in the 1960's and thuscommonly referred to by researchers in-terested in text analysis as the BrownCorpus.
More recently, the compilersof the Brown Corpus have completed agrammatical annotation of the data base.The entire one mil l ion words of theCorpus have been "tagged", with eachword given a specific grammatical sym-bol.
The "tagging" procedure, which wassemiautomatic, assigned to each runningword an unambiguous symbol based on ataxonomy of 82 grammatical categories.The basic principle of our tagging isan expanded set of grammatical wordclasses; so, for example, modal verbsare identif ied by a unique tag, differ-entiating them from other verbs, as areeach of the verbs be, have and do.
Thesecond principle of our tagging systemis morphological, e.g.
plurals of nounsare explicit ly coded and thus separatelyretrievable (as are singulars); the sameis true of past tense forms of verbs,verbal participles, and so on.
We havealso introduced some syntactic factorsinto our coding; so, for example, coor-dinate conjunctions are differentiatedfrom subordinate ones; sentence bound-aries are marked.
Because of the systemof grammatical annotations used, theretrieval of various types of syntacticinformation can now be accomplishedalgorithmically.
Our research, partial-ly presented in this article, is con-cerned both with automatic parsing ofthe annotated text and with the studyof l inguistic performance.
Specifically,I shall report on the investigation ofsentence length and its relation tosentence complexity in written English.
1If we disregard headlines and otherheadings (of chapters, sections, etc.
),the Brown Corpus contains 54,724 sen-tences, with the mean sentence length of18 .49  words.
However, both sentencelength and sentence structure vary great-ly among the 15 genres of writ ing repre-sented in the Corpus.
In general, sen-tence length differs signif icantly be-tween "informative" prose and "imagina-tive" prose, the former exhibi t ing asubstantial ly higher mean sentence length.In the Brown Corpus, the term InformativeProse is applied to all those samplesthat have been selected from non-fictionsources.
This section is divided intonine genres; for convenience of reference,each genre has been assigned a lettercode: A.
Press: reportage, B.
Press:editorial, C. Press: reviews, D. Religion,E.
Skills and hobbies, F. Popular lore,G.
Belles lettres (biography, memoirs,etc.
), H. Miscel laneous (documents andreports of various kinds), and J. Learnedand scientific writings.
There are alto-gether 374 samples of Informative Prosein the Corpus; with each sample beingapproximately 2,000 words long, this partof the Corpus consists of 755,010 words.imaginative Prose, on the other hand,includes samples taken from a variety offiction sources and is represented bysix genres: K. General fiction, L. Mys-tery and detective, M. Science fiction,N.
Adventure and Western, P. Romance andlove story, and R. Humor.
There are 126samples of Imaginative Prose, again ofabout 2,000 words each, accounting for256,955 words.
The entire Corpus thusconsists of 500 samples of texts andcontains 1,011,965 running words (wordtokens), not counting headlines and otherheadings.32All genres of the Informative Proseportion have a higher mean sentencelength than any of the genres in theImaginative Prose section of the Corpus.The mean sentence length in InformativeProse ranges from a high of 24.23 words(in H. Miscellaneous) to 18.63 words(in E. Skills and hobbies).
In Imagin-ative Prose, on the other hand, thehighest mean is only 17.64 words (inR.
Humor) and the low is 12.81 words(in L. Mystery and detective fiction).This difference is, to some extent, dueto the percentage of quoted material inthe two sections of the Corpus.
Whileno genre of Informative Prose has morethan 11.9% of quoted material, withBelles lettres having this highest per-centage and the learned samples thelowest of only 2.8%, the percentage ofquoted material  in Imaginative Proseranges from a low of 12.76% (Mysteryand detective fiction) to a high of26.8% (Science fiction).
Moreover,there is a difference in the nature ofthe quoted material: in InformativeProse it is a mixture of representationsof spoken material and quotations fromanother written source; in ImaginativeProse, virtual ly all quoted material  isf ictional dialogue.
Two facts shouldbe noted in this regard, however: first,that no sample with more than 50% ofquoted material  was included in theBrown Corpus; and second, that thecorrelation between sentence length andthe percentage of dialogue is by nomeans exact.
Several discrepancies insuch correlation are given in the essayby Marckworth and Bell who studied sen-tence length distr ibution in the BrownCorpus in detail.
2Sentence length distribution, ofcourse, is bound to have some effect onsyntactic complexity of a text.
Clearly,a sentence consist ing of two words can-not be considered to be syntactical lycomplex by any conceivable standard ofmeasurement.
However, neither in theorynor -- as I shall demonstrate below --in practice, can sentence length beviewed as a reliable indicator of somecommon sense notion of syntactic com-plexity which might be useful either inthe study of performance in general orin stylistic syntactic characterizations.Consider, for example, the length inwords and the syntactic properties ofthe following two sentences:(1) John's grandfather left allhis oil paintings to theMetropol itan Museum of FineArts(2) Tom planned to ask Alice todanceThe first sentence has fourteenwords (by conventional graphic count),the second exactly half that, i.e.
sevenwords.
But while the first sentence hasonly one verbal form, left, the secondhas three, one finite, planned, and twoinfinitives, to ask and to dance.
Inthe fairly conservative versions oftransformational grammar of the 1960's(such as the 'standard theory'), thefirst sentence would have had an under-lying phrase marker (deep structure)consist ing of one S, and thus not verydifferent from the actual sentence.
Thesecond sentence, on the other hand, wouldhave had an underlying phrase marker con-sisting of three S's, supposed to repre-sent the three underlying predicationswhich could be informally given as 'TomPAST plan', 'Tom ask Alice', 'Alicedance' In other l inguistic theories,of course, the situation might be quitedifferent, with a much more elaborateinitial phrase marker in a generativesemantic representation, for example.More recently, on the other hand, syntac-tic solutions have been proposed in whichno sentential source at all is requiredfor infinit ival phrases.
In this kindof syntactic treatment, the infinitivalphrases are then directly generated asVP's.The purpose of this article is notto discuss or evaluate such confl ict ingsyntactic treatments.
Rather, I want todiscuss first the algorithm for the re-trieval of verbal constructions from thedata base, and then summarize the resultsobtained in the analysis of sententialcomplexity in the entire Corpus as wellas in the different genres representedin the data base.The data analyzed in this study arethe actual sentences of the Corpus, whichwere encoded in the usual standardEnglish graphic form.
There is thus nodirect information in the data base about"underlying" structure or even about anysyntactic bracketing of the surfacestring.
I will therefore avoid the useof the term "surface structure" entirelyin referring to my data.
Surface struc-ture, in all those l inguistic theoriesthat have uti l ized this concept, includesat least some labeled bracketing of theterminal string.
In the "revised ex-tended standard theory" (REST) of trans-formational grammar, surface structureactually refers to that level of repre-sentation which is not only enriched bythe so-called traces, but has yet to passthrough the deletion rules, the filtercomponent of the grammar and, of course,the stylistic rules.
3 In our case, how-ever, the only information besides theactual sentences is the accompanying-33-sequence of grammatical tags, describedabove.My basic definit ion of sentencecomplexity in the present study will besimply the number of predications persentence.
I shall report these resultsfor each of the 15 genres of the Corpusas well as for the Corpus as a whole.Given the form of the analyzed data,the reader should also be aware that myuse of the term "predication" is broaderthan is usually the case in l inguisticl iterature or in general usage.
As iscustomary, I shall consider a predica-tion to be, first of all, any verb orverbal group with a tensed verb that issubject to concord (for person and num-ber) with its grammatical subject.
Iwill refer to these verbal constructionsas finite predications.
In addition tothat, however, I will also include inmy analysis what I shall call non-finitepredications.
These include infinitivalcomplements, gerunds and participles.My basic taxonomy of verbal groupsis thus quite similar to that adoptedby structural!st l inguists in the anal-ysis of the English verb.
All verbalgroups exhibit ing concord with a subject,including the subject it (as in itrained) will be counted as finite predi-cations, as will interrogatives; thosethat do not satisfy these conditionswill be considered to be non-finite.My only departure from some structuraltreatments lies in the inclusion of allimperatives in the class of finite pre-dications.
This allows me to placeimperatives with and without an overtsubject (e.g.
Don't worry!
and Don'tyou worry!)
in the same class of predi-cations.When it comes to complex verbalstrings involving a quasi-auxi l iary plusinfinitive (such as going to, supposedto, used to + infinitive), I shall fol-low here the consistent -- although per-haps somewhat controversial  -- approachof Joos.
4 Joos treats all quasi-auxil-iaries dif ferently from "true" auxil-iaries (such as will or may), pointingout that they exhibit dif ferent syntac-tic properties.
Joos also argues thatincluding only some of the quasi-auxi l-iaries with the class of auxil iary verbswould make the whole English verbalsystem 'incomprehensible'.
My adoptionof Joos' approach means that in myanalysis a sentence such as He used toplay tennis will have two pr~icat ions ,one finite and one non-finite.The retrieval and analysis of ver-bal forms, which is the subject of thisreport, represents only a segment of alarger parsing algorithm for the com-plete syntactic and stylistic analysisof the Brown Corpus.
The retrieval hasbeen made possible by the "tagging"system described above.
As alreadymentioned, verbal constructions fromall the sentences of the Corpus havebeen included in this analysis, with theexception of those occurring in headlinesand other headings.
Headlines and head-ings, which are identif ied by a specialsymbol in the tagged Corpus, were notincluded because of the particular na-ture of English "headline grammar",which often omits verbs entirely, e.g.Actor in Critical Condit ion after Explo-sion, or omits some verb form, particu-larly the finite one, e.g.
President toMeet Brezhnev in Vienna.
All sentencesoutside headlines are included, however,even those that do not contain any verbat all (e.g.
Just our luck!).
The num-ber of sentences with a "zero" predica-tion is small: there are 1869 of themin the entire Corpus, accounting foronly 3.4% of the Corpus sentences.Nevertheless, they have been includedin computing the statistics.Verbal constructions of both types,finite and non-finite, may consist of asingle verbal form (e.g.
likes or tolike) or of one or more auxil iaries plusthe main verb.
The longest possiblefinite verbal group in English can havefive elements, e.g.
may (might) havebeen being considered; the longestactive verbal group can have only fourelements, e.g.
may (might) have beenconsidering.
A non-f inite verbal groupcan consist of a maximum of four verbalelements, e.g.
to have been being con-sidered.
Of these, the maximum finitepassive verbal group with five elementsdoes not occur in the Corpus at all, nordoes the maximum non-f inite group withfour verbal elements.
However, themaximum finite active group with fourelements, i.e.
the type may have beenconsiderinH, occurs 8 times, and thesecond longest passive group, i.e.
thetype may have been considered, 68 times.The situation is similar with regard tonon-finite groups: the one of maximumpossible length, i.e.
the type to havebeen being considered, does not occurat all.
In three-element groups, i.e.the type to have been considered or tohave been considering, only the first(passive) form occurs, 22 times; thereare no occurrences of the active type ofthis three-element group.Complex verbal groups may be con-tinuous (i.e.
not interrupted by a non-verbal element) or discontinuous, i.e.34so interrupted.
D iscont inuous  verbalconst ruct ions  exhib i t  a d i f ferent  pat-tern in dec larat ive  sentences on onehand, and in wh-quest ions  and yes/noquest ions on the other.
In dec lara-tives, the number of word-c lasses  thatcan interrupt  a complex verbal  group isre lat ive ly  small: it cons ists  pr imar i lyof adverbs, e.g.
He wi l l  probably  con-sider ..., He has indeed been asked.In dec larat ive  sentences,  other word-classes, inc luding al l  the componentsof a noun phrase, const i tute  a def in i teclue that the verb group has terminated.Clues of this sort are of crucia l  impor-tance in any grammat ica l  ret r ieva l  orpars ing that uses annotated but other-wise unbracketed str ings as input.
Oneof the important  facts that such ana lgor i thm has to cons ider  is that, dueto var ious "delet ion" rules under con-d i t ions  of identity,  an Engl ish verbalgroup may appear in a t runcated form.Consider,  for example, the fo l lowingsentences:(3) Teddy could not be e lectedbut his cousin could (be)(4) Teddy could not have beene lected but his cous incould (have (been))(The forms in parentheses  indicateopt ional  delet ions.
)It is because of this poss ib let runcat ion phenomenon that the ret r ieva la lgor i thm needs to a l low for the poss i -b i l i ty  of a verbal  group ending in anauxi l iary.The s i tuat ion is more complex whenit comes to the retr ieval  of verbalgroups in wh-quest ions  and yes/no ques-tions.
Because of the aux i l iary  inver-sion in such cases, a large number ofword-c lass  representat ives ,  inc ludingentire noun phrases, can be embeddedwith in  a verbal  group in such sentences.The ret r ieva l  of complex verb groupsthus needs to take into account  a num-ber of var iables.
Part icu lar  at tent ionneeds to be paid in the pars ing proce-dure to the fact that an incomplete ver-bal group may represent  e i ther a trun-cated str ing or a d i scont inuous  predi -cat ion which cont inues later in thesentence.The ret r ieva l  a lgor i thm for allverbal  groups, f in ite and non-f in i te,and cont inuous and d iscont inuous,  scan-ned the tag sequence in each sentencefrom left to right, w i thout  backtracking.The retr ieval  was thus essent ia l lyaccompl ished by a f in i te -s tate  automaton(FSA).
The complete FSA that can proper-ly handle both cont inuous and d iscont in -uous verbal  contruct fons  ( including trun-cated ones) is quite compl icated.
Pure-ly for i l lustrat ion,  I give be low a smallf ragment o f  the FSA, which  wi l l  retr ieveonly those verbal  groups that begin witha modal  or wi th  'have', and are cont inu-ous.F igure 1The arcs in the t rans i t ion d iagramin F igure 1 are labeled with the tagsymbols of the appropr iate  c lasses ofitems that need to be present  for theautomaton to reach a f inal state, andfor the str ing to be thus accepted asa legi t imate verbal  group.
Trans i t ionarcs labeled X, all of which terminatein the f inal  state of the automaton,make it poss ib le  for t runcated groups tobe accepted.
The symbol X, in this case,thus des ignates  any tag outs ide of thosethat may appear in a verba l  group.
Themeaning of the other tag symbols inF igure 1 is as fol lows: MD = modal;BE = 'be' (base form); BEG = 'being';BEN = 'been'; H = any form of 'have';HV = 'have' (base form); HVG = 'having';HVN = 'had' (past par?ic ip le) ;  DO = 'do'(base'form); VB = main  verb (base form);VBG = present  part ic ip le  of main verb;VBN = past par t ic ip le  of main verb.The basic results, obta ined in myanalysis,  are summarized in Table i.Three f igures are g iven for each of thef i f teen genres and for the Corpus as awhole: mean sentence length in graphicwords (i.e.
word tokens),  mean number ofpred icat ions  per sentence, and thek35average number of words of text perpredicat ion.TABLE 1Genre Words Pred.
Wordsper per perSent.
Sent.
Pred.A.
Press, report.
20.81B.
Press, edit.
19.73C.
Press, reviews 21.i1D.
Re l ig ion 21.23E.
Ski l ls  18.63F.
Pop.
lore 20.29G.
Bel les lett.
21.37H.
Misc.
24.23J.
Learned 22.342 652 742 652 902 602 822 942 822 877.857.207.967.327.177.207.278.597.78K.
F ict ion,  gen. 13.92 2.41 5.78L.
Mystery /detect .
12.81 2.29 5.59M.
Science fict.
13.04 2.23 5.85N.
Adv .
/Western  12.92 2.30 5.62P.
Romance 13.60 2.45 5.55R.
Humor 17.64 2.84 6.21CORPUS 18.49 2.65 6.97The three sets of f igures, takenjointly, throw a cons iderab le  l ight onthe nature of the pr inc ipa l  d i f ferencesamong the genres.
Par t i cu lar ly  reveal-ing is the compar ison of the genres ofIn format ive Prose (A through J -- hence-forth INFO) as a group with  the groupencompass ing Imaginat ive Prose (genresK through R -- hencefor th  IMAG).
Asa l ready ment ioned -- and cer ta in ly  notunexpected ly  -- the mean sentence length,measured in word tokens, is much largerin INFO than in IMAG.
The reader  shouldnot ice espec ia l ly  that all genres ofINFO have their  sentence- length  meanabove the Corpus mean, whi le all genresof IMAG are be low the Corpus mean.The s i tuat ion is d i f ferent ,  inin terest ing ways, when it comes topredicat ions.
Here, too, the number ofpred icat ions  per sentence tends to begreater  in INFO than in IMAG, but notcons is tent ly  so and cer ta in ly  not to theextent  that the d i f ferences  in sentencelength would lead one to expect.
Nolonger are all INFO genres above Corpusmean and al l  IMAG below it.
Wi th inINFO, genre E (Skil ls and hobbies) isbelow the Corpus mean, and A (Press,reportage) and C (Press, reviews) areexact ly  at the mean.
On the other hand,in IMAG, genre R (Humor) is wel l  abovethe Corpus mean.The lack of cor re lat ion  betweensentence length and the number of predi-cat ions per sentence, i.e.
sentencecomplex i ty  in my def in i t ion,  is dis-played in a par t i cu lar ly  str ik ingmanner  in the third set of f igures,which give the mean number of words perpredicat ion.
In this case, all genresof INFO show a much larger number ofwords per pred icat ion  than the genresof IMAG.
As a matter  of fact, allgenres of INFO are above, and allgenres of IMAG be low the Corpus meanin this instance.
Table 2, wh ich  sum-mar izes  all the re levant  data for thetwo groups of prose and for the Corpus,shows these results  quite clearly.TABLE 2Measure INFO IMAG CORPUSWords/Sent.
21.12 13.55 18.49Pred./Sent.
2.80 2.38 2.65Words/Pred.
7.54 5.69 6.97Whi le  Table 2 s imply conf i rms thatsentence length is h ighly genre depen-dent, it a lso shows that the predica-t ion /sentence f igure is not d i rect lycorre lated with sentence length.
Thewords /pred icat ion  f igures show, inessence, that the number of words neededto express a pred icat ion  is cons iderab lysmal ler in those styles of wr i t ing inwhich sentences tend to be shorter.This fact also impl ies some interest ingfacts about the overal l  s t ructure ofsentences in INFO as compared to IMAG.Since, aside from the verbal  groups,the other major  const i tuents  of a sen-tence are the nominal  groups (i.e.
NP's),the stat is t ics  presented in Table 2c lear ly  suggest  that nominal  groups inINFO genera l ly  tend to be longer (and,in some sense, thus more complex) thanthose in IMAG.
Both cogni t ive  andautomat ic  pars ing of texts of the infor-mat iona l  kind wi l l  thus put greaterdemands on noun-phrase processing.In order to invest igate the mattersomewhat further and to see what  k indof requi rements  the two groups of prosemay impose on the process ing of verbalgroups, I have also invest igated thed i f ferences  between the rat io of f initevs.
non- f in i te  pred icat ions  in the twogroups of writ ing.
The results  aregiven in Table 3, where the symbol Fand NF stand for f in ite and non- f in i tepred icat ions  respect ive ly .36TABLE 3Group Type No.
Pred.
Pct.persent.INFO F 68,157 1.91 68.09%NF 31,935 0.89 31.91%100,092 2.80 100.00%IMAGE F 34,329 1.81 75.96%NF 10,866 0.57 24.04%45,195 2.38 100.00%CORPUS F 102,486 1.87 70.54%NF 42,801 0.78 29.46%145,287 2.65 100.00%A further examination of the infor-mation in Table 3 shows that the greaterpercentage of non-finite predications inINFO (31.91%) than in IMAG (24.04%) i sdue largely, although not exclusively,to the greater frequency of gerunds andparticiples in the INFO texts.
Thereare, on the average, 0.59 gerundival andparticipal predications per sentence inINFO and only 0.36 in IMAG; the mean forthe Corpus is 0.51.
This difference isless pronounced with regard to infini-tival complements: INFO has a mean of0.30 infinitives per sentence, IMAG 0.21;the Corpus mean is 0.27 infinitives persentence.To summarize then, we can describethe syntactic style of Informative Prose,compared to Imaginative Prose, by atleast these three characteristics:longer sentences, more complex nominalstructures, and a larger proportion ofnon-finite predications.
In contrastto this, the texts of Imaginative Proseexhibit shorter sentences, a signifi-cantly smaller number of word tokens perpredication (pointing to less complexnominal groups) and a smaller percentageof non-finite predications.
The researchwhich we are now conducting with theBrown Corpus should provide us with fur-ther insights into the syntactic struc-ture of English texts and their stylis-tic properties, as well as into problemsof automatic parsing in general.References1.
The list of tags and the rationalefor the grammatical annotation systemis given in W.N.
Francis and H. Ku~era,Manual of Information to Accompany aStandard Corpus of Present-Day AmericanEnglish (Department of Linguistics,Brown University, Providence, 1979).Much of the computer programming re-quired to produce the final form of thetagged Corpus, as well as the retrievalof the predications, was done by AndrewMackie whose imaginative assistance isgrateful ly acknowledged.2.
Cf.
Mary L. Marckworth and Laura M.Bell, "Sentence-Length Distribution inv the Corpus," in Henry Kucera and W.Nelson Francis, Computational Analysisof Present-Day American English (Brown~ivers i ty  Press, Providence, 1967).3.
Cf., for example, Noam Chomsky andHoward Lasnik, "Filters and Controls,"Linguistic Inquir Z, Vol.
8, No.
3(1977).4.
Martin Joos, The English Verb (TheUniversity of Wisconsin Press, Madison1964).37  ?
?
