q~E IMPATIE~ TUTOR:AN INTEGRATED LANG~AGEUNDERSTANDING SYST~Brian Phillips & James Hend\]erTexas Instruments Inc.Dallas, Texas 75265, USAWe describe a language understandingsystem that uses the techniques ofsegmenting the computation intoautonomous modules that co, municate bymessage passing.
The goal is tointegrate semantic and syntacticprocessing to achieve greaterflexibility and robustness in the designof language understanding systems.IntroductionThis paper addresses the control problemin language understanding systems.
Manyformalisms have evolved for representingthe syntactic, pragmatic, and semanticdata of language, but the ability toaccess them in a flexible and efficientmanner has not proceeded apace.
Thisdelay is understandable: one needs toknow what to control before one cancontrol it.
Although the isolation ofthe subproblems is a valid methodology,there comes a time when a deeperunderstanding of the language systemrequires that the data and controlaspects of the problem be consideredtogether.Linguistic theory has not offered muchinsight in the control of linguisticprocesses; Chomsky (1965) finessed theproblem by creating ,'competence" as theproper view for theoretical linguistics,rather than the study of "performance".In fact, it is this study of processthat is one of the contributions ofcomputational linguistics to the studyof language (Hays, 1971).An overview of control strategiesWithin automated language understandingsystems we find a variety of strategies:Linear control.A logical approach is to adopt a linearcontrol strategy in which syntacticanalysis is followed by semanticinterpretation (~s ,  1971).Unfortunately, this places anoverwhelming burden on semanticprocessing which has to interpret eachcomplete parse when the ambiguity mayonly lie in part.
Further, there arecases where syntactic relations cannotbe determined by syntactic analysisalone, for example, the role of "tree"in (I).John was hit by the tree.
(1)Semantic grammars.Faced with a need to access semanticinformation during syntactic analysis,one suggestion is to construct a"semantic grammar" (HendrJx, 1977) inwhich some categories in the syntacticrules are replaced by semantically basedcategories of the domain, e.g., verbsmay be subclassified as verbs ofmovement, containment, excitement, etc.
(Sager, 1975).
The disadvantage of thisapproach is that the domain becomes anintegral part of the grammar, with theresult that either the ntm~ber ofsyntactic rules is considerablyen\]arged, or the rule set has to berewritten to move to another topic area.Semantic parsing.Other approaches have managed to achievesuccess by avoiding the problem ofintegration completely: the systems haveessentially one component.
Schank(\]975) has systems based on thehypothesis that language understandingis driven from the semantics withminimal use of any syntactic analysis.But such systems can go astray becauseof their high semantic expectation.
Forexample, the word "escape" carries withit the prediction that it is an action-480-of terrorists (Schank, Lebowitz, &Birnbaum, 1978); this causes anerroneous analysis of a sentence such as"The policeman escaped assassination..."Others have proposed procedural systemsbuilt around semantic knowledge (Rieger& Small, \]980).
In the Rieger and Smallsystem the knowleage is on the wordlevel.
Their main drawback is aninability to easily change domains.Design FeaturesThe power of syntax diminishes as morecomplex constituents are encountered.Syntax can give good descriptions forthe structure of phrases, becomes lessdetailed when describing the role ofphrases within clauses, has relativelylittle to say about the clause structureof sentences, and even less aboutsentences in discourse.
As syntacticforces diminish, semantic relationsdescribe the structure -- discoursecohesion is semantic (Halliday & Hasan,1976).
Consequently we believe that alanguage understanding system shouldhave the ability to bring syntactic andsemantic knowledge to bear on theanalysis at many points ~n thecomputation in order to prevent the flowof extraneous analyses to later steps inthe analysis.We agree with Schank (\].975) that thegoal of analysis is not to produce aparse tree.
It should not even be asubgoal, as is the case in systems thatfirst produce a parse tree then performsemantic interpretation.
~le parse treeshould be considered as a data structurethat should either be constructedincidentally to the analysis, or becap@ble of being constructed should itbe needed.
But syntax cannot beignored.
Often it may not appear to becontributing much, but it is clear thatsyntactic structure is of use indetermining antecedents of proforms, forexample.Schank's (1975) hypothesis of semanticprediction appears to us to be a goodapproach.
The goal is certainly tobuild a meaning representation of thelinguistic act and top-down analysis canlead to greater efficiency.
Top-downsystems tend to leave open the questionof what to do when there is no priorknowledge to guide the analysis.
Weenvisage a system that can flow into apredictive mode ~wn the situation isappropriate, but otherwise has a defaultcontrol structure ofsyntax-then-semantics.
In short, wewant a data-driven control structure.Message passingTo achieve the design goals mentionedabove, we are segmenting the probleminto autonomous processes thatcon~nunicate by passing messages to eachother.
This is Hewitt's (1976) view ofcomputation as a society of cooperatingexperts.We have experts that know about theorganizing principles of syntax and ofsemantics.
The experts are theninterpretive, which gives flexibility inchanging to another language, or to anew domain.
We have experts forcase-frames, scripts, clauses, subjects,and the like.The experts will.
at points in timebecome associated with domain knowledge,i.e., the grammar of a language, orworld knowledge for a problem area.The job of an expert can be toinstantiate a model that it has beengiven (top-down analysis), or if it wasnot given a model, then to find a model(bottom-up analysis).
The process ofinstantiation is performed by elicitinginformation from other experts who canuse their expertise on the problem; theyof course may have to consult furtherexperts.
Some experts are notinstantiators, rather they are processesthat are common to several otherexperts; for parsimonious representationwe give them expert status.The output of the system is a semanticdescription of the input as instantiatedcase-frames.
The novelty of thesituation is captured by the way inwhich the case-frames are linked and bytheir spat~o-temporal settings.
Thesemantic description augments theencyclopedia and is thus available aspragmatic knowledge in the continuinganalysis of the input.The impatient tutor.This initial project is a study ofmessage flow in the system.
As eachword of the input is processed we aretrying to disseminate its effectthroughout the system.
In particular wewish to have the ana\]ysis rapidlyreaching the overall semanticdescription of the task so that it canbe checked against the prescribedactions and any divergence noted.
If adeviation is apparent, the system willinterrupt the student.
We are notproposing the system as a serious tutor;481--it's shortcomings are quite apparent: ifa student intended to say "I will getthe hammer before I get the wrench ..."the impatience of the system would causean interjection after hanm~.r because ofan expectancy of a wrench.The advantages of message passingEfficiency.Without prediction, linguistic analysiscan only be a uni-directionalsearchof the problem space, which is~xponentia!
in complexity.
If a goal isknown or predicted, then bidirectionalsearching, from input and goal, reducesthe complexity.
Yet greater efficiencycan be achieved if the prediction can beQJrectly associated with the input.In other schemes for processinglanguage, the fl~4 of control isconstrained to follow the organizationof the data.The ability of any expert to corrmunicatewith any other expert is how we achievethe greater efficiency.
If an expert isinstantiating a case-frame, for example,it can be in direct con~unJcation with aphrase expert that is trying toinstantiate scme syntactic rule.
Thefindings of the phrase expert aretransmitted directly to the case-frameexpert, which may check the suggestionby calling upon the taxonomic expert.As each message carries with it a returnaddress, it can be returned directlyto the originator of the query withoutbeing chained through any intermediateexperts.We are using the addresses of messagesto achieve our desired perspective onsyntax.
Although the informationmecessary to build a parse tree is inmessages, the information can bereturned directly to the expert thatinitiated the query, bypassing otherexperts who were intermediaries in theanswering process.
The omitted expertsmay include those that build s~\]tacticstructure.
However, a message also has atrace of its route and, should the needarise, the longer path can be followedto build structure.Robustness.It is apparent that there is a certainamount of redundancy in language.
Thisis probab\]y wily apparently inadequatesystems have been able to processwell-formed discourse.
But real peopledo not speak with perfection.Eventually natural language systems willhave to be able to process the normallanguage of people.
A user will not beenamored of a system that demands morecare and attention be given to thelanguage of his interaction than is,\]sual for his other conversationalactivities.To progress to a systematic study ofrobustness we need to examine schemes bywhich all of linguistic knowledge may beflexibly invoked; thus we believe thatthe systems that contain less than thisknowledge will not be a suitablevehicle.
Linear control structures areequally not the answer.
If theerroneous item is first encountered,there is no way of using latercemponents.
The flexibility of themessage passing scheme will allow otherknowledge to be accessed.Organization of the dataThe data of our system is divided intothree parts: the syntactic rules, thesemantic knowledge, and the definitionsof words.
The syntactic rules arecontained in the "grammar", the semanticrules in the "encyclopedia" and the worddefinitioP~ ~n the "dictionary.
"GrammarThe grammar consists of a set of rulesof the form shown in Figure 1.Clause == Subj Verb ObjectClause == Subj Stative ComplSubj == NPNP == Det Adj* NounNP == N ClauseCamp\].
== Stateetc.Figure I: Gr~:~marThe rules are written to allow thepresence of a "subject" expert betweenthe "clause" expert and the "NP" expertas it is the subject expert that knowsabout subject-verb agreement.
Agreementrules (not shown) are written in termsof syntactic features such as "ntm~ber".The experts for syntax use these rulesto determine what Darts of speech to-482expect next.
The ru3es are languagespecific and are therefore not encodedinto the syntactic experts.
Only theuniversal categories have correspondingexperts.~ictionary.The dictionary consists of worddefinitions that include the syntacticproperties of the word.
Thus the word"3eft" would have information that itcould be an adjective (as in "leftfoot") , a verb ("left home") and a noun("the new left").
The description ofthe sense of each word is reached by apointer from the dictionary into theencylopedia.
For example, that as anoun it refers to a group of people, asan adjective refers to a positionalreferent, and that as a verb it canbuild the case frame associated withleaving.Encyclopedia.The encyclopedia consists of anetwork of case frames 3inked byre3ations of causality, taxonomy,instance and equivalence (Phillips,\]978).META .J-~Do :JOBPERFOIRT-WHOLEVAREPLACEARCHANGE:TIll'El" META #I LEADS-TO%T:TIRE|Figure 2: Simplified version of semanticnetwork with information aboutchanging a tire.In Figure 2 we see knowledge aboutchanging a tire.
The CONTingency linksrepresent causal dependencies.
The ME~FA\].inks show the equivalence of concepts,one concept having an equivalentdescription by a set of concepts.
Forexample "replace" represents "removingan old object and putting on a new one".If concepts in the resulting descriptionalso have meta-3inks, tb~ decompositioncan be continued.
Schank's (1979) MOP'sare similar to our meta-organization.The VARiety link is used to showtaxonomic classication.
Thus"~ange-tire" is a kind of "replace".Common knowledge need only berepresented once; it is inherited byconcepts lower in the taxonomy than thepoint of representation.
The INSTancerelation captures the episodic nature ofmemory by storing specific instances asinstantiations of intensionaldescriptions: "That time I changed mytire in front of Mom's house."
is oneinstantiation of the genera\] changing atire event.Anatomy of an expertEach expert in the system knows how touse specific types of links and toperform operations using local data.
Anexpert also keeps track of its messageactivity.
As an example, take the"Chronology" expert, Figure 3.. .
, .
.
, .
.
.
.
, .
, .
.
, .
, .
, , .
.
, .
.
, .
.
, .
.
, o D .
, , .
oStatic component:Name: CHRONOLOGYLink types: COli~f', LEAITID,SEQ, ENABLEProcess:(a) If NEXT-EVENT9 requestedthen trace LF_ADTO or SEQ(b) If L~T-EVE~9 requestedthen trace SEQ or CONTof node and of VAR(node)I>/namic component:Memory: (record of alreadytraced \].inks)Status: (waiting for anotherexpert to complete, orfinished)Fi0ure 3: The CHRONOL(X~ expertThere are two parts to each expert.
Thestatic part which is not changed duringprocessing, and the dynamic part whichis.
The dynamic component contains a-~483-memory, which keeps track of allprocessing done by this expert so far.This is primarily included forefficiency, since it saves the expe_rtfrom having to repeat computations.It also contains a "Message Center", whichtells whether it is waiting for ananswer from another expert (is a Clientto another expert) or has other expertswaiting for replies (has Customers).
Italso has default Customers to whommessages should be sent even if theyhave not been requested.The static component has a name, a listof the link types which the expert knowsabout, and a set of process rules.
Theserules are the heart of the experts,since they contain information on whatprocesses to call to get information andwhat other experts to call.
In the caseof the Chronology expert shown in Figure3 it uses the process "trace" to followlinks, an8 can call the taxonomy expertto get superior nodes.
In the case ofthe syntactic experts these processrules inc11~de information about usingthe syntactic grar~nar rules to find thenext expert to call.TranslationAs experts have vocabularies that arepeculiar to their domains, messages --in particular from semantic to syntacticexperts -- may require translation fromthe terminology of the sender to that ofthe receiver.For example, messages between clauseexperts (CLE) and case-frame experts(CFE).
~\]e former uses the concepts ofsubject, object, verb, etc., whereas thelatter has events, states, and agents,i~struments, etc.
Let us consider ascenario in which a CLE has analyzed a"subject" and wants to convey thisinformation to a CFE.
It could send therole-labelled concept to the OFF..However, to attribute a CF role to theconcept, the CFE needs to know the moodof the sentence.
This it can onlydetermine by sending messages back tothe CLE.
The overall effect would be totransfer information available to theCLE to the CFE.
It is obviously moreefficient to have the translationprocess as part of the resourcesavailable to the C\[~ and to have J t sendoff a possible "agent", say, to the CFE.The CFE can verify or reject thehypothesis using the semantic resourcesavailable to it.If the CFE is predicting a certain"instrt~nent", say, it could have availableto it information on the realizations ofinstruments and remit to the CLE theprediction.
Again this is puttingknowledge of syntax and of forms intothe CFE; it seems better to have the CFEsend "instrument" and the word conceptto the CLE which decides upon likelyrealizations.All in all the translation processresides more naturally with the CLE.general, it is taken that thetranslation resides in the expe_rts onthe syntactic side of the system.InOther semantic phenomena that can havecorrelates in syntax are contingency,sequence, and decomposition.
Forexample, chronological ordering may berealized by "then".
In general thereare many possible realizations; they canbe single words or even clauses.
Alittle-understood "connective" experthas the job of watching for thesyntactic clues.An Example of Experts in ActionIn this section we will outline how thesystem uses the knowledge Figure 2 toprocess input about changing a tire, forexample, (4) and (5).The left front tire is flat.
(4)I will change it.
(5)The goal of the system is to create ameaning representation by instantiat~nga CF.
Through meta-links, a CF can beequivalent to a complex of CF's; thusthe top-level instantiation may beachieved by instantiating the lower rankCF's.A CFE normally has a model of a CF thatit is trying to instantiate.
Initiallythis cannot be the case and the systemhas to revert to a bottom-up approach.The CFE sends a message to the CLErequesting that it be sent a translationof a syntactic analysis of a clause.The CLE has to find a clause using therules of the grammar in Figure i. Theclause rules show that a "subject"expert has to be invoked.
In turn J tsends a request to a "NP" expert.
TheNP expert finds the rules that describeits constituent structure.
G.~ven themany many rules that could be used, itwould be inefficient to examine themall, so input is used to guide itschoice.
The expert gets the word by--484--asking an "input" expe.rt, which promptsthe user.
The NP expert selects thoserules that can be part of a modelconsistent with the input.
Thesyntactic instantiation is similar to achart parse (Kaplan, \]973) showing thehierarchical arrangement ofconstituents.
At this point, the CLEhas not recognized any of the entrypoints to the translator and so cannotyet respond to the CFE.
The next inputword is taken by the CLE.
The inputwill instantiate some of the analysispaths and possibly eliminate some.
Andso on until a constituent that canfulfill the subject expert's request isrecognized.
Omitting a number of steps,the response is "the left front tire".The subject expert cannot truthfullyforward this phrase as it cannot becertain that it is a subject until themood of the clause is known.
We arestill considering what to do in thissituation.
We could wait or could sendthe concept off without annotation tosee if the CFE can make any use of it.
(The latter would be profitable if thereare only a limited number of semanticpossib{lities in the context.)
Let usassume that we wait.
~le subject expertinterrogates the CLE for information onits mood, which require that the clauseexpert continue the analysis.
Once theverb expert has functioned, theinformation is available and so the thestative verb.
The grammar then predictsthat a "state" will follow.
This isconfirmed by the word "flat".
Afterreceiving the response from the CLE, theCFE has the following instantiation:CFI: ( Agent - TIRE1Act - STATEObj - FLAT)This episode becomes part of theencylopedia.A CFE contains the knowledge that when astate is found, a request shou!d bepassed to Chronology asking for theNEXT-EVENT.
Chronology traces the LFADTOlink from CF\] and predicts thatChange:tire will be the next act.
Itpasses this information back to the CFE.The CFE now has the prediction that thefollowing CFCF2:(Agent - (unknown)Act - Change:tireobj - from TIRE.\] to SPARE)Instr - TOOL6will be found.
TOOL6 is a tokenrepresenting a group consisting of ajack ano a wrench.
For the sake ofbrevity in this example this informatlonis made explicit, in the actual progran~t can be determined by tracing otherlinks.
The CFE has now processed thefirst case frame to the be~t of itsabilities and sets out to instantiatethe prediction.
As the CFE has CF2 asits model, it can work in a top-?kmmmanner.
When the prediction is passedto the CLE and translated, "tire" willbe available as a match for the pronoun"it".The instantiation of the modelproduces CF3:CF3:( Actor - self (from "I")Act - Change:tireobj - Tirel (from "it")The CFE seeks to set up more predictionsfor the dialogue.
It looks to see ifthis action is contingent on any others.To do this it calls up chronology andrequests the LAST-EVENT for CF3.Chronology calls upon taxonomy whichascends variety links to the "perform"act in " do:job".
The taxonomy expertalso checks to see if the meta-node hasany contingencies, but in this case itdoesn't.
If it did, that would also bereturned to chronology.
It finds CF4:CF4:( Agent - selfAct - GETObj - TOOL6 ).~lis iS then passed back to the CFE toserve as a prediction for the nextinput.
And so the cycle of predictionand instantiation continues.--485--ReferencesChomsky, N. Aspects of the Theory ofS~antax.
Cambridge: MIT Press, 1965.Halliday, M.A.K., & Hasan, R. Cohesionin English.
London: Longman, 1975.Hays, D.G.
"The field and scope ofcomputational linguistics.
"Proceedings of the InternationalConference on ComputationalLinguistics.
Debrecen, 1971.Hendrix, G.G.
"Human engineering forapplied natural language processing.
"Proceedings of the 5th InternationalJoint Conference on ArtificialIntelligence.
Cambridge, 1977.Hewitt, C. "Viewing control structuresas patterns of passing messages."
(MITAI Memo 410.)
Cambridge: MIT AILaboratory, \]976.Kaplan, R.M.
"A genera\] syntacticprocessor."
In R. Rustin (Ed.
),Natural Language Processing.New York: A\]gorithmics Press, 1973.~lillips, B.
"A model for knowledge andits application discourse analysis.
"American Journal of Ccmputationa\]Linguistics, 1978, Microfiche 82.Sager, N. "Computerized discovery ofsemantic word classes in scientificfields."
In R. Grishman (Ed.
),Directions in Artificial Intelligence:Natural Language Processing.
(CourantComputer Science Report #8).
NewYork: New York University, 1975.Schank, R.C.
Conceptual InformationProcessing.
New York: AmericanElsevier, 4975.Schank, R.C.
"Reminding and Memoryorganization: An Introduction to MOPs.
"(Yale University Research Report #170.
)New Haven: Yale University, \]979.Schank, R.C., Lebowitz, M., andBirnbatm~, L.A. "Integrated PartialParsing."
(Yale University ResearchReport #143).
New Haven: YaleUniversity, 1978Small, S.L., & Rieger, C. Conceptualanalysis with the Word Expert parser.Annual Meeting of the CognitiveScience Society.
New Haven, 1980.Woods, W.A., & Kaplan, R.M.
The LunarSciences natural language informationsystem.
(BBN Report No.
2265.
)Cambridge: Bolt Beranek & Newman,1971.- -486  --
