ON COMPUTATIONAL SENTENCE GENERATION FROM LOGICAL FORMJuen- t in  WangInst i tut  fur Angewandte  Informat ik ,  TU Ber l inSummary.This paper descr ibes  some computat iona land l ingu is t ica l  mechan isms in ourprogram wr i t ten  in S IMULA to generatenatura l  language sentences from theirunder ly ing  logical  s t ructures  in anextended pred icate  logic.
Af ter  thepresentat ion  of the augumented logicalfo rmal i sm to deal  wi th i l l ocut ionaryacts,we expla in  then the basic devicesused in the generat ion  process :semiot i cin terpreta t ion ,orders  of quant i f i ca t ionsor der ivat iona l  const ra in ts , the  referen-t ial p roper ty  of var iab les  and theLe ibn iz -F rege  idea.
Examples  from systemoutput  wi l l  be given.1 .
In t roduct ionLogica l  form is one ot  the most  usednot ions in ph i losophy , log i  c and l inguis-tics.
It goes back at least to Ar is tote -les in his l ingu is t ica l  and logical  ana-lysis of natura l  language sentences.This d i rect  re ference to the immediatesentence form which has been character i -stic for the logic of sy l log ism remainsunchanged throughout  the whole per iodof scholast ic  logic unt i l  the deve lop-ment  of the formal pred icate  logic.
Sin-ce then, th is  logical  formal ism, wi th  orwi thout  var ia t ion  and modi f i cat ion ,  hasbeen w ide ly  used in the l inguist ic  phi-losophy to analyse and study the natura llanguage.
And it is then the resu l tedrepresentat ions  in logical  fo rmal i smwhich wi l l  be taken as the logical  formof the analyzed natura l  language senten-ces.
This  changed not ion of logical  formcan be found everywhere  in the t ractatusof Carnap ,Qu ine ,Geach ,H in t ikka  and manyothers.
And this not ion of logical  formwi l l  be now used universa l ly .
In recenttimes, a lot of log ica l ly  minded l ingui-ts l ike Lakoff ,  Harman,Keenan and Kar-t tunen have even at tempted to put logi-cal form into the re la t ionsh ip  wi th  thenot ion of deep structure in connect ionwith Chomsky~ theory of generat ive  gra-mmar.
They hold the v iew that the seman-t ical  representat ion  of  natura l  languagesentences can be obta ined from the for-mal logical  s t ructures and that thesesemant ica l  representat ions  can be adap-ted as a basis for sysntact ica l  genera-t ion of natura l  language sentences.However , th i s  school  of generat ive  gram-mar has not given any const ruc t ivedemonst ra t ion  of their  assert ions.In this paper we do not concern wi ththe quest ion  whether  this theory , the so-cal led generat ive  semant ics  ,will y ie lda true grammar theory or a genuine the-ory of the semant ics  of natura l  language.We are rather  mot ivated  by real needs.We have a l ready at our d isposa l  a ques-t ion -answer ing  data base system whichuses essent ia l ly  the language of predi-cate logic as the formal query language.We need to know how to express theselogical  forms in natura l  language sen-tences.
And Since we have to do with aquest ion -answer ing  system, we need notonly to treat logical  forms under ly ingind icat ive  sentences but ,more important,the logical  s t ructures  which  have beenused by the system as the representa-  ,t ions for in ter rogat ive  sentences.
In thefo l lowing we present  at f irst theextended logical  formal ism.
We descr ibethen the concept ions  and pr inc ip lesbeing used in implementat ion.
The pro-gram is wr i t ten  in SIMULA.2 .Logica l  fo rmal i sm as semant ica l  rep-resentat ion  of natura l  language senten-cesThe logical  fo rmal i sm which  we have usedto represent  the sentence s t ructure  ofa natura l  language is in its essence amany-sor ted  language of pred icate  logic.In the concept ion  of representat ion  wehave adopted some ideas from the speechact theory  of Aust in  and Sear le .Accor -ding to this theory, the ut terance  ofany sentences in a natura l  language ischaracter i s t i ca l l y  per forming at leastthree d is t inct  kinds of acts:(1) theut ter ing  of words,(2)  re fer r ing  and pre-d icat ing,  (3) stating, quest ion ing,commanding,  promis ing,etc .
The not ionof re fer r ing  and pred icat ing  should bethus detached from the not ions of suchspeech acts as asser t ing ,quest ion ing ,commanding,etc .
, s ince the same refe-rence and pred icat ion  can occur in theper formance of d i f fe rent  complete  speechacts.
In tak ing account  of this d ist inc-t ion between propos i t ion  and i l locut io-nary act we make one addi t ion to theusual  logical  formal ism.
We let the pro---405--pos i t ional  part  be represented by theusual logical  expression.
In addit ion,we have an aux i l iary  component  to repre-sent the d i f ferent  i l locut ionary  acts.This addi t ional  component  wi l l  be con-nected with  the left end of the logicalexpress ion by a convent ion sign " = ",which ,by  the way, should not be read as"equal".
A deta i led  descr ipt ion  of thisextended logical  formal ism 'is g iven inHabe l ,Schmidt  and Schweppe (1977).
Someexamples can be given as fol lows:Assert ions:/true/=.all.x2 (.ex.x3 (city(x3) .eq.
"~okyo ~.and.
takeplacec i ty(x2,x3)) )(I)Requests  (Wh-questions) :conference(x2)=.ex .x3  (city(x3) .eq.
"Tokyo .
.and.
takeplacec i ty(x2,x3))(2)yes-no quest ions:=.a l l .x2 (.ex.x3 (city(x3) .eq: ~okyo ".and.
takeplacec i ty(x2,x3)  ))(3)The i l locut ionary  indicators  l ike "con-ference(x2)" ,  which is i tself  a namefunction, can be compared with the de-s ignator  of Woods(1968) in his querylanguage formal ism.
In general ,  severalsuch i l locut ionary  indicators can bea l lowed at the same time; they couldthen lead to the representat ion  of mul-t ip le quest ions as d iscussed by Hint i -kka.
Here,however ,  we leave the quest ionopen, whether  this proposed logicalformal ism as a representat ion  symbol ismis complete and adequate for natura llanguage.
For example, we do not consi~der whether  WHY- and HOW-quest ion  canalso be treated in the same framework.It is obvous that this proposal  forthe semant ica l  representat ion  of naturallanguage sentences does not fo l lowChomsky "s theory, accord ing to wh ichinter rogat ive  sentences should be deri -ved from non- in ter rogat ive  ones by theapp l icat ion  of opt ional  t ransformat ions.This approach has rather some af f in i tywith the suggest ion of A jduk iewicz(1928)who has descr ibed the logica l  st ructureof a quest ion as cons is t ing of senten-t ial  mat r ix (a  sentence with one or moreof its components  rep laced by var iables)preceded by an inter rogat ive  operator"for what x" (or "for what x,y ,z,..." ,ifthe matr ix  has more than one free var i -able).
In such cases, we can take i l lo-cut ionary indicators  as in ter rogat iveoperators  in the sense of A jdukiewicz.The proposed way of g iv ing semant ica lrepresentat ions  both to ind icat ive andquest ion  sentences seems to have someadvantages.
Above all, it enable us todeal with quest ion sentences d i rect lywi thout  us ing the somehow art i f i c ia lmethod to paraphrase them as indicat ivesentences or spistemic statements,  assuggested by Hintikka.
Any way, thesuggested kind of semant ica l  representa-t ion of quest ion  sentences receives aquite natural  set - theoret ica l  interpre-tation.
For example, the form (2) usedfor request  corresponds to the meaningof the set expression:{x2 I ex.x3(c i ty(x3)  "Tokyo" and.
eq.
Q O Itakep lacec i ty (x2 ,x3) )J (4)In such cases, the inter rogat ive  opera-tors funct ion as quant i f iers;  they bindfree var iab les  and thus t ransform con-d i t ions exhib i ted in sentent ia l  matr ixinto complete c losed forms.3.
ExamplesIn order to let the reader have a roughimpress ion of what the system can accom-pl ish at the present  stage, we givebe low at f i rst  some output  examples,before we step into the scattered des-cr i t ion of the concept ions  and pr inci -ples to be used.
The examples taken fromoutput consists  of pairs of a g ivenlogical  form and its cor respond ing natu-ral language sentence generated./ t rue /=.a l l .
x2( .ex .x3(c i ty (x3) .eq ."Tokyo'.and.
takep lacec i ty(x2,x3) ) )EVERY MEETING WILL BE HELD IN THECITY'~okyo"/ t rue /=.a l l .
x1( .ex .x2( ( .ex .x3(make-journeyc i ty (x l ,x3) .and.c i ty (x3) .eq .
"tokyo')) .
imp.
(takepart(xl ,x2))))EVERYBODY WHO MAKES A JOURNEY TO THECITY'~OKYO" TAKES PART AT SOME MEETINGperson(x l )=.ex .x2( ( .ex .x4( takep lace-country(x2 ,x4) .and.country(x4)  .eq."
japan')) .and.
(takepart(xl ,x2)))WHO TAKES PART AT THE MEETING WHICHTAKES PLACE IN THE COUNTRY "JAPAN"conference(x2)=.ex .x3(c i ty (x3) .eq ."tokyo'.and.
takeplacec i ty(x2,x3))WHICH MEETINGS WILL BE  HELD IN THECITY "TOKYO"person(x l )=.ex .x2(conference(x2) .eq .
"col l ing-8o' .and.
( .ex.x3(takeplace-c i ty (x2 ,x3) .and .c i ty (x3) .eq . '
tokyo ' ) ).and.g ive lectureconf (x l ,x2) )WHO GIVES A LECTURE AT THE CONFERENCE"COLLING-8o" WHICH TAKES PLACE IN THECITY "TOKYO"count ry (x4)=.ex .x2( takep lacecount ry(x2,x4) .and.conference(x2) .eq.
c?l l ing-80 ")IN WHICH COUNTRIES WILL THE MEETING---406--"COLLING-8o'BE HELDperson(x l )=.ex .x3(c i ty (x3) .eq . '
tokyo".and.
( .ex .x2( takep lacec i ty (x2 ,x3) .and .conference(x2) .eq . '
co l l ing -8o ' ) ) .and .t rave l toc i ty(x l ,x3) )WHO TRAVELS TO THE CITY "TOKYO'INWHICH THE MEETING "COLLING-8o" TAKESPLACEperson(x l )=.ex .x2( ( .ex .x4( takep laceco-unt ry (x2 ,x4) .and .count ry (x4) .eq . '
j apan") ) .and.
( takepar t (x l ,x2) ) )WHO TAKES PART AT THE MEET ING WHICHTAKES PLACE IN THE COUNTRY "JAPAN"4.
Semiot ic  in terpreta t ion  as sentencegenerat ion  basisLet us proceed to cons ider  the devicesfor sentence generat ion  from the under-lying logica l  structure.
Essent ia l l ythe generat ion  process wi l l  be based onthe semiot ic  in terpreta t ion ,ca l led  byScholz and Hasenjaeger ,  of the predica-tes and funct ions used in the logicalstructure.
Some of them are l isted asfol lows:Predicates:takepart (x l ,x2)  =def person xl takespart at meet ing  x2takeplacec i ty(x l ,x2)  =def meet ing  xlwi l l  be held in c ity x2takep lacecountry(x l ,x2)  =def meet ing  xltakes place in country  x2make journeyc i ty (x l ,x2)  =def person xlmakes a journey to c ity x2Funct ions:c i ty (x ) .eq .y  =def the name of c ity xis yconference(x ) .eq .y  =def the name ofmeet ing  x is ypezson(x ) .eq .y  =def the name of personx is yThe semiot ic  in terpreta t ion  str ings arethe bu i ld ing basis  for surface senten-ces.
In this respect  the semiot ic  inter-p retat ion  of pred icate  may be comparablewi th the under ly ing  str ing in the gene-rat ion tree or phrase-marker  which  isassumed both in the theory of Chomskyand in the theory of Montague as well.If we look at its actual  form more clos-ely, the str ings g iven as semiot ic  inter-pretat ions  d i f fer  in one essent ia lpoint  from the under ly ing  str ings adop-ted in the school  of generat ive  grammar.The under ly ing  str ing in the deep struc-ture for grammat ica l  t rans format ion  con-tains no var iab le  as used in the logic.On the ground of this essent ia l  d i f fer -ence  we can make no d i rect  compar isonbetween our approach and that of genera-t ive semantics.At the d isposa l  of semiot ic  interpreta-t ions of pred icates  and funct ions,  wecould a l ready in pr inc ip le  implement  aprogram to generate  somehow quasi  natura llanguage sentences from the g iven logicalstructures.
Al l  what  we need to do is tofo l low the type of reading the logicalformula which we have been taught at theclass room.
We have been taught, for ex-ample, to read the fo l lowing logicals t ructure/ t rue /=.a l l .
x2( .ex .x3(c i ty (x3) .eq ."
tokyo ' .and.
takep lacec i ty (x2 ,x3) ) )as :for every meet ing  x2 it holds:there is a c i ty x3, for  which  it hold:the name of c ity x3 is "tokyo"andmeet ing  x2 wi l l  be held in city x3This might  be cons idered as a quasi  natu-ral language sentence formulat ion.
Ithas above all  the advantage of beingun iversa l  to the extent  that it can beappl ied to every kind of logical  struc-tures.
And actua l ly  a program has workedin this style (Habe l ,Schmidt ,Schweppe1977).
However , th i s  k ind of fo rmulat ionis not the usual  sur face sentence andit is also not so in te l l ig ib le  as itcould.
We need therefore  to f ind out ana l te rnat ive  which  might  give us a s impleand natura l  fo rmula t ion  .
For eample, thelogical  form given above has the mean ingwhich  can be expressed s imply as:"Every meet ing  wi l l  be held in thecity "Tokyo" "It conta ins  no formal logical  quant i f ie rsand no free or bounded var iables.
Wedescr ibe  be low some main methods andpr inc ip les  which  we have used to achievethe generat ion  of such surface sentencescomputat ional ly .5.
Quant i f i ca t ion  order  and der ivat iona lconst ra intThe prob lem of quant i f ie rs  const i tutesone of major  obstac les  in the computa-t ional  sentence generat ion  from logicalstructures.
As is wel l  known, the orderof d i f fe rent  quant i f ie rs  has an inf lu-ence on the meanil~g of the express ionwhether  it is in the case of natura llanguage or it is in the case of predi---407-cate logic.
Thus, Pe i rce has a l ready po-inted out that the sentences"some woman is adored by whateverspaniard may exist"and"whatever spaniard my exist  adoressome woman"have quite d i f fe rent  meanings.
H int ikkaand Lakoff  have made the same observa-t ion in their analys is  of natura l  lan-guage (but it seems that Chomsky hasover looked this fact in his fo rmulat ionof Pass ive - t rans format ion) .Th is  pheno-menon that the order in which  un iversa land par t icu lar  quant i f ie r  occur is mate-r ial  for the mean ing  is even more obvi-ous in the language of pred icate  logic.Let us cons ider  as example the pre-d icatepersonv is i tc i ty (x ,y )wi th the ass igned semiot ic  interpreta-tion:person x v is i ts  city yThe two logical  express ions.
a i l .
x l ( .ex .x2(personv is i t c i ty (x l ,x2))).ex .x2( .a l l .
x l (personv is i tc i ty (x l ,x2)))which d i f fe rs  f rom each o ther  jus t  inthe  order  o f  quant i f i ca t ion  means qu i tedi f ferent ly .
In the process of sentencegenerat ion  from logical  s t ructure we canthus not s imply take the semiot ic  inter-pretat ion  str ing and subst i tute for itsvar iab les  the cor respond ing  types ofquant i f iers .
In other words,  the opera-t ion of "quant i f ie r - lower ing" ,  as Lakoffhas cal led it, can not be appl ied in allcases wi thout  per t inent  d i f ferent iat ion .In our example, it can be appl ied in thef irst case and yields the correct  sen-tence:"every person v is i ts  some ci ty "However , i t s  d i rect  app l i ca t ion  wouldlead rather  to incorrect  sentence inrespect  to the secand logical  form.
Ithas rather  the meaning"some city wi l l  be v is i ted  by everyperson "The regu lar i ty  for the poss ib i l i ty  ofsubst i tu t ion  can be perce ived if we lookat the semiot ic  in terpreta t ion  str ingand cons ider  the patterns of the fol low-ing logical  forms together:.a l l .x1( .ex.x2.ex.x1( .a l l .x2personv is i tc i ty (x l ,x2)personv is i tc i ty (x l ,x2)II..a l l .x2(.ex.xl.ex.x2(.a l l .x lpersonv is i tc i ty (x l ,x2)personv is i tc i ty (x l ,x2)It is then obvious that only in cases,whi le  the order of logical  quant i f ie rsis in the same sequence in which  the cor-responding var iab les  occur in the g ivensemiot ic  interpretat ion,  the operat ionof quant i f ie r - lower ing  can be d i rect lycarr ied out.
And it y ie lds cor rec tsentences.
In other cases such as in (II),it is w i thout  measures  not possible.This kind of regu lar i ty  has been alsoobserved by Lakoff  in his d i scuss ion  ofthe not ion of der ivat iona l  ;it occursin the t rans format iona l  der ivat ion  ofsurface sentences from the under ly ingdeep structures.
Wi thout  going into thedeta i ls  of his f inal  mod i f i ca t ions , theder ivat iona l  const ra in t  means roughlylike this: if one quant i f ie r  commandsanother  in under ly ing  structure,  thenthat quant i f ie r  must  be lef tmost  in sur-face structure.
He uses the der ivat iona lconst ra int  as a means to rule out certa-in kind of t rans format iona l  generat ionof incorrect  sur face sentences.
Our aimis ,however, not to b lock out but toobta in  correct  and mean ingfu l  surfacesentences from mean ingfu l  logical  struc-tures.
We thus try to f ind out means sothat the cond i t ion  of der ivat iona l  con-straint  can a lways,or  at least  to alarge part, be ful f i l led.
For this pur-pose we introduce the not ion of theassoc iated forms of the semiot ic  inter-pretat ion  of the g iven predicate.
We addfor example to the or ig ina l  semiot icin terpretat ion"person x v is i ts  c ity y"its assoc iated form l ike(5)"city y wi l l  be v is i ted  by person x"(6).It wi l l  be s imply stored.
In dependenceon the orders of quant i f ie rs  the corres-ponding semiot ic  in terpreta t ion  str ingwi l l  be selected.
By this add i t iona lmeans, correct  sentences could then becomputat iona l ly  generated from the lo-g ical  patters  ment ioned  in (II).The same prob lem occurs wi th  the trea-tment of logical  s t ructures  under ly ingWh-quest ions  (which, who, etc.,) .
In ourconcept ion  and in accordance  also wi ththe theory  of H in t ikka , the  in ter rogat iveoperators  has the quant i f i ca t ion  nature.They subject  thus to the same der ivat -ional constra ints .
We use thus the asso-c iated semiot ic  in terpreta t ion  str ingsin the requ i red cases.
By this means, wecan generate computat iona l ly  from thelogical  s t ructuresperson(x l )=.a l l .
x2(personv is i t c i ty(xl,x2))c i ty (x2)=.a l l .x l  (personv is i tc i ty (x l ,x2--408))the fo l lowing in ter rogat ive  sentencesrespect ive ly :"Who v is i ts  every city" ,"Which c i t ies wi l l  be v i s i ted  by everyperson"It is of interest  to note that wi th  thisdevice the topic of in ter rogat ive  sen-tences has been t reated and solved forthe s imple cases at the same time.
Ingeneral ,  the dev ice  of assoc iated formsof the semiot ic  in terpreta t ion ,wh ichfrom the l ingu is t ica l  v iewpo in t  re lateto each other  t rans format iona l ly ,  wi l lbe extens ive ly  used.
Among others,  itwi l l  be appl ied  in the t reatment  of there lat ive  sentences.
In other words ,asso -c iated form l ike"who makes a journey to c i ty  y "wi l l  be stored together  wi th  the g iveninterpreted predicate;  and this asso-c iated for~ ~i l l  be used eventua l ly  forre lat ive  sentence fo rmat ion .We returnto this prob lem below.6.
Referent ia l  p roper ty  of var iable,re lat ive  sentence generat ion  andand proper ty  of connect iv i tyIn computat iona l  sentence generat ionfrom the under ly ing  logica l  s t ructurewe make an extens ive  use of the refe-rence nature of the var iables.
Var iab leshave been ca l led by Quine as pronounsof logic and mathemat ics .
The referen-t ial  character  wi l l  be used by us as akind of red thread in bu i ld ing  up thecomposed sentences.
This  feature showsc lear ly  in generat ing  sentences wi thre lat ive  clauses.
Let us cons ider  asexample the logical  s t ructureperson(x l )=.ex .x2( ( .ex .x4( takep lace-count ry (x2 ,x4) .and .count ry (x4) .eq ."
japan')) .and.
( takepart(x l ,x2)))The var iab le  xl in the in ter rogat iveoperator,  namely  person(x l ) ,  ind icatesthe topic of the quest ion  concerned.This topic is in genera l  spec i f ied bythe compos i t ion  of pred icates  and func-t ions in a cer ta in  way which is expres-sed by the logical  matr ix.
The generat ionof the cor respond ing  in ter rogat ive  sen-tence means to express verba l ly  thiscompos i t ion  of pred icates  and funct ionsafter the g iven prescr ip t ion  in matr ix.In mak ing use of the re ferent ia l  pro-perty of var iav les ,  it is seen that thetopic wi l l  be character i zed  at f irst bythe pred icatetakepart (x l ,x2)On this ground its assoc ia ted  form ofsemiot ic  interpretat ion,  namely"who takes part  at meet ing  x2"wi l l  be used as the main  bu i ld ing compo-nent of the quest ion  sentence to begenerated.
By means of the var iable,  wecan f ind that this pred icatetakepart(x l ,x2)is connected d i rect ly  wi th  the pred icatetakep lacecount ry (x2 ,x4)  .In other words, the var iab le  x2 contain-ed in the pred icatetakepart (x l ,x2)is in its turn spec i f ied  by the predica-te takep lacecount ry (x2 ,x4) .
We usethus in cons iderat ion  of its modi f i ca -t ion character  the cor respond ing  associ -ated form of semiot ic  interpretat ion,namely"which takes place in country  x4"to bui ld  up the re lat ive  clause.
In thesame way, we find that  the var iab le  x4conta ined in the pred icatetakep lacecount ry (x2 ,x4)is re ferred by the name funct ioncountry(x4) ,whose funct ion va lue indicates the nameJapan.
This  constant  wi l l  be thus inser-ted at the place x4.
The te rminat ion  ofthese connect ing  and insert ing processeslead then to the generat ion  of the sen-tence"Who takes part  at the meet ing  whichtakes p lace in the country  "Japan'"In connect ion  wi th  the re ferent ia l  fea-ture of var iab les  it is of interest  tonote that all  the logical  s t ructureswh ich  we have used in our quest ion -ans -wer ing  system shows a remarkab le  proper-ty which  we have ca l led the proper ty  ofconnect iv i ty .
A logical  s t ructure  isca l led to have the proper ty  of connec-t ivity, if in the case where it conta insmore than one pred icate  or funct ion  eachof its pred icates  ~d funct ions sharessome argument  wi th  others, i .e ,  has com-mon var iab les  wi th  other  funct ions orpredicates.It is on the ground of the property  ofthis connect iv i ty  that we can even letthe program process ing  under certa inc i rcumstances  be dr iven by var iables,such as exp la ined just above.
On thecontrary,  let us cons ider  the fo l lowinglogical  structure:/true/=.ex.x1(.ex.x2(.ex.x3(city(x3).eq. "
tokyo ' .or .
takepart (x l ,x2) ) ) )S ince the funct ion city(x3) and thepred icate  takepart (x l ,x2)  do not shareany common argument,  this logical  form--409--does not have the def ined property  ofconnect iv i ty .
Its cor respond ing  surfacesentence can therefore  not be computedby the process dr iven by var iables ?
Ins-tead, a d i f fe rent  procedure  must  be ap-plied.
At present  stage, we let, how-ever, such types of sentences out o four cons iderat ion.The usefu lness  of var iab les  is not ex-hausted in re lat ive  sentence generat ion.In general ,  we intend to use it to dif-ferent iate  the var ied patterns of thelogical  forms concerned.
And as a resultof this d i f ferent ia t ion ,  sentences ofvar ied patterns wi l l  be generated.
Letus cons ider  the fo l lowing s imple logicalform:person(x l )=.ex .x2( takepar t (x l ,x2) .and .g ive lectureconf (x l ,x2) )For such pattern,  no at tempt to generatere lat ive sentence wi l l  be made.
Instead,it t r ies to express the surface sentenceas fol lows:"Who takes part at some meet ing  andgives a lecture at this meet ing  "Our program is thus in t ry ing to d iscernas much of logical  patterns as possible.It works after  them.7.
Categor ica l  and hypothet i ca l  senten-ces, idea of Le ibniz  and FregeIn our computat iona l  sentence generat ionwe have made use of an old idea, whichgoes back at least to an observat ionmade by Leibniz  in his famous nouveauessais sur l~ntendement  humain.
In thec lass ica l  logic, one is customed namelyto d iv ide the judgements  or asser t iona lind icat ive  sentences into three majortypes:ca tegor ica l ,hypothet i ca l  and dis-junct iveLe ibniz  has remarked that in some casesan actual  hypothet i ca l  judgement  can beexpressed in a categor ia l  form.
Thisregu lar i ty  is d i scussed also by Fregeon the re la t ion  between aux i l ia ry  sen-tences (Beis~tze) and cond i t iona l  sen-tences (Bed ingungss~tze) in  his essay0ber S inn und Bedeutung.
Accord ing  toFrege the c ind i t iona l  or hypothet i ca lsentence"Wenn eine Zahl k le iner  als I undgr~Ber  a l so  ist, so ist auch ihrQuadrat  k le iner  als I und gr6Ber  alsO "can be expressed in a categor ia l  form:"Das Quadrat  e iner Zahl, die k le inerals I and gr~Ber a l so  ist, ist kle-iner als I und gr~Ber a l so  "In our system design, we have adoptedthis old concept ion.
From the under ly inglogical  impl icat ion  structure its sur-face sentence wi l l  not be generated inhypothet ica l ,  but rather  in categor ia lform.'
This approach has its pract ica land sty l is t ic  advantages.
It can be seenin cons iderat ion  of the fo l lowing logi-cal form:/ t rue/=.a l l .x l  ( .ex.x2(( .ex.x3 (make journeyc i ty (x l  ,x3) .and.city(x3)?
eq.
"tokyo" ) ) .
imp.
(takepart (xl ,x2) ) ) ) .In fo l lowing this l ine of thought , thecor respond ing  surface sentence wi l l  begenerated  by the system as fol lows:"Everybody who makes a journey to thec i ty '~okyo" takes part  at somemeet ing  "It is natural  and simple.
For its gene-rat ion we need no more add i t iona l  meth-ods than the ones which  have been at ourd i sposa l : the  quant i f ie r - lower ing  andformat ion of re lat ive  sentence.
The onlything wh ich  we must take care of is tochoose the semiot ic  in terpretat ion  str-ing of the conc lus ion  rather  than thatof antecedent  as the main  bu i ld ingcomponent.
Otherwise,  the meaning wouldbe distorted.The usefu lness  of this concept ion  ofLe ibniz  and Frege cons ists  for our pur-pose, above all, in the fact that itcan be even extended to the t reatment  oflogical  s t ructures  for in ter rogat ivesentences.
Wi thout  using this idea,thesurface sentences to be computat iona l lygenerated would have a cumbersome look.This  feature may appear c lear ly , i f  wetry to deal  wi th the fo l lowing s implelogical  structure:conference(x2)=.a l l .
x l  ((.ex.x3(make journeyc i ty (x l ,x3) .and .c i ty (x3).eq. '
tokyo' ) ) .
imp.
( takepart(x l ,x2)))It is a logica l  form under ly ing  an in-te r rogat ive  sentence; it conta ins  thelogical  form ment ioned  just abovea lmost  as component.
In combinat ion  ofthis Le ibn iz -F rege  idea wi th  the otherpr inc ip les  l ike re ferent ia l  property  ofvar iables,  topic handl ing  and format ionof re lat ive  sentence which  we have des-cr ibed above the system yie lds thenw i thout  other  detour the in ter rogat ivesentence:"Which meet ings  wi l l  be v is i ted  byeveryone who makes a journey to thec i ty "Tokyo" "--410--8.
General  remark and d iscuss ionWe have above descr ibed some main  con-cept ions and pr inc ip les  upon which wehave bui l t  up the program.
The systemworks essent ia l ly  after logical  patterns,after certa in features of logical  struc-tures such as connect iv i ty ,  the occu-rence of impl icat ion sign and so on.
Itis thus proper t ies -o r iented  and notsyntax-dr iven.
It is needless to saythat our program can not deal wi th  allk inds of logical  structures.
This isalso not our or ig ina l  aim, besides thefact that,as Chomsky makes remark aboutthe nature of deep structures,  not alllogical  s t ructure can under ly  or havea mean ingfu l  surface sentence.
From ther ight beginning we have conf ined oursel fto just a spec i f ied set of logical  stru-ctures used as a formal query language.It is remarkab le  that for such a set oflogical  fo rmscer ta in  regular i t ies  andpatterns can be genera l ly  estab l i shedand be used to generate  meaningfu lsurface sentences computat ional ly .
Theprogress wi l l  depend to a large extenton the careful  observat ion  of logicalpatterns and ins ight fu l  l inguist ic  ana-lyses.9.
ReferencesFrege,G.
:uber Sinn und Bedeutung,  Ztschr.f .Ph i los .u .phi los .
Kr i t ik ,NF 1oo,1892.Habe l ,Ch .
,Schmidt ,A .
,Schweppe,H .
:On automat ic  paraphras ing of naturallanguage express ions,  Semant ic  Net-work project  report  3/77, 1977,TU Berl in.Hint ikka, J .
:The semant ics  of quest ions and thequest ions of semantics,  Amsterdam,North-Hol land,  1976.Lakoff ,G.On generat ive  semantics,  in: D.D.Ste inberg et aleds.)
: Semantics,Cambr idge,un i .press ,1971Sear le, J .R.
:Speech acts, Cambr idge,1969.411
