ON THE DERIVATION OF A CONVERSATIONAL MAXIMTh.
R. HofmannShimane Nat ional  Univers i tyMatsue City, Shimane, Japan 690Summary.A conversat ional  maxim of re lat ion -- a pr inc ip leof connectedness of text -- is der ived from amore general  & independent ly  mot ivated pr inc ip legoverning the interpretat ion of sentences in con-text.
This pr inc ip le  -- PIM, pr inc ipe d' inter-pretat ion minimale -- that sentences are inter-preted in the most redundant way possible,  isthus seen to be fundamental,  & a general  argumentis given that the statement of, & the ef fect ivesemantic procedures lie in the interpret ive (to-ward semantic structure) & not in the generat ive(away from there) direction.Text.My purpose here is to show that a conversa-t ional maxim --- be l ieved to be a maxim for thespeaker in we l l - fo rmed conversat ion -- is in factonly a special  case of a much more general  rule.This more general  rule, moreover,  is a rule forthe interpretat ion of sentences.
This leads toquest ions about conversat ional  maxims & thenature of the relat ion between syntact ic  form &semantic structure.We shal l  ist argue for a narrow & speci f icconversat ional  maxim; a connectedness pr inc ip leaccord ing to which texts & conversat ions shouldexhibi t  a qual i ty  of connectedness.
It appearsthat this covers the ground of Gr ice's re lat ionmaxim: "be relevant".Grice i formulated several  maxims for thespeaker, which may be assumed of a speaker inusual c ircumstances.
Together  with the utteranceof a sentence, they give rise to his 'conversa-t ional impl icatures' .
They are grouped under 4headings: quantity,  qual ity,  relation, & manner.We are concerned here main ly  with the 3 ?, butshal l  have some comments later  on the 1 ?
2.
The4 ?
group, "avoid obscur i ty" ,  "avoid ambiguity","be br ief"  & "be orderly",  l ike the 3 ?
"be rel-evant", are extremely vague & unformal izablestated as they are, as maxims for the speaker.To i l lustrate their operat ion with the i st 2groups, consider one saying "I think it is rain-ing" instead of "It is raining".
Clear ly  this isless informative of the state of the wor ld(though more informative about the speaker) thanwhat could have been said, v io lat ing the quant i tymaxims in one direct ion or the other  (be inform-ative enough, & only enough), & it also v io latesbrevity.
Hence the qual i ty  maxim must be domin.-ant here, "do not say that which you bel ieve tobe false or for which you lack adequate evidence.
"It fol lows that the speaker does not know or haveadequate evidence that it is raining.We propose here as a conversat ional  maxim, aconnectedness pr inciple.
A simple statement is"stick to the subject" or "don't change thesubject".
Thus, "you were rather drunk lastnight .
.
.
.
Say, it 's rather cold today, isn't  it?
"is an obvious v io lat ion of this pr inciple.
Thatsome relat ion maxim is operat ing here, is beyondquestion.Whi le the above statements of this maximsuggest that there is some sort of subject ortopic that one might a l ternat ive ly  st ick to orchange, these topics or subjects turn out to bei l lusive, However, these in junct ions are utteredwhen there is l itt le over lap of semant ic  contentwith the preceed ing  context.
We shal l  understandthis connectedness pr inc ip le  in the fol lowing way;"there should be a high degree of over lap withpreceeding context.It is true that many cases where these injun-ct ions are uttered can be character ized by oneperson refusing to continue in a d i rect ion (topic)which is unpleasant  to him.
However, it is alsocommon exper ience that a conversat ion between 2or more people may wander  exceedingly.
Quiteoften, in fact, it takes considerable ef fort  bythe part ic ipants  to reconstruct  what they discus-sed or how they arr ived at i topic from a quited iss imi lar  topic 15 minutes earl ier.
And in sucha reconstruct ion,  one usual ly  finds 3 or 4 otherequal ly  d iss imi lar  topic-areas which were passedthrough.In such cases, one se ldom even perceives a"change in topic", even though the topic doeschange in a rather radical  way.
On the otherhand, when the topic of a conversat ion does notchange, the conversat ion wi l l  often be judged asboring.
We may conclude that what  is avoided isnot changes in topic, but rapid changes in topic;what is excluded by this maxim is a sentence withl i tt le or no over lap wi th  the preceed ing context.This lack of over lap wi l l  be found in allcases of ob ject ionable  topic change, but thereare numerous cases of gradual  topic change with-out problem.
Moreover,  wi th  rapid change oftopic, misunderstand ing may arise, as we shal lsee below.It is however  not true that the human mind,or human language, cannot accept rapid changes intopic.
Rapid changes can & are often made, butmust be accompanied by a marker  of the change.There are numerous devices to indicate grosschanges of topic.
In spoken Engl ish, we havesuch things as "Says ..." or "Did you know that..." to mark a b ig jump.
In more formal English,there is " Incidental ly,  ..." or "By the way, ..."which carry an impl ic i t  promise to return to thesubject at hand after a short  interrupt ion,  whichis often not fu l f i l led in conversation.Temporary topic shifters like by the wayboth mark that over lap need not be found,236& also that the following segment wil l  not serveas a context later on for overlap .... i.e.
it is asegment probably slightly overlapping, but whichcan be forgotten later without loss.In more formal English, we find conLDleteshifters of topic,"to change the topic, ..." or"speaking of .., ...".
These instruct the addres-see to seek no overlap, here or later.The existance of these markers shows thatone can change the subject, but if so, thatchange should be formally marked.
Thus we canreformulate this principle as "stick to the sub-ject unless you indicate otherwise" or "changesin subject should be overtly marked".
This maybe seen as a refinement of Grice's relation maxim"be relevant", but may also be seen as relatedalso to his manner maxim "be orderly", in so faras it entails marking changes.However, given that conversations can & dowander, changing the subject gradually, withoutany annoyance or hinderance, or even awareness,to the participants, we must revise our notion ofrelevance to: relevance to the immediately pre-ceeding context, & the connectedness principle to"rapid changes in the subject must be marked".To say that there is a topic or subjectthroughout a conversation is too strong.
Never-theless, sentences must bear some connectedness(semantic overlap) to their preceeding context.I propose that this is all that can & should besaid in the area of Grice's relation maxim t "bere levant".Elsewhere 2 I have proposed a principle ofsemantic interpretation, PIM.
This principed'interpretation minimale disambiguates words,constructions, pronouns, &c, based on selectingthe meaning which adds the least to the priorsemantic context.
Thus "flying planes can bedangerous" is not ambiguous in a context "don'tfly airplanes. "
or in a context "watch out forairplanes.
".
In each case, there is onlyway to interpret this sentence with a minimaladdition to the preceeding semantic context.Similarly, some word disambiguations can be ex-plained only by PIM.
For example, the word lightin the sentence "it is light" is not ambiguous incontexts like "how heavy is it? "
or "is itstill dark? "
because the semantic componentsof only i sense wil l  overlap sufficiently withthe preceeding context in each case.This principle PIM may seem ontologicallyweak, as it is claimed to be true Only in casesof good communication -- i.e.
cases of communic-ation where the idea is transmitted without am-biguity.
PIM can be easily falsified by construc-ting a text where the reader is left in doubt asto what is said.
This appears circular at firstglance.
It is not, however.Good communication (or well-written text) isempirically identifiable.
In such cases, PIM ismet.
Even more easily identifiable is poorlywritten text, poor because it leaves ambiguitiesin the reader's mind.
In most if not all suchcases, it appears, PIM is violated.
Such casescan be rendered non-ambiguous by the addition ofenough words to disallow all but I way of integ-rating (overlapping) it into its preceeding con-text with a minimum of new information.Lastly, as it states a condition necessaryfor good (or even adequate) communication, itmakes strong predictions about what speakers orwriters wil l  use (pronoun, noun+adjective+defin-ite, or just noun+definite), given a prior con-text & an idea to express.
These predictions areeasily tested, & it is thus empirical.Assuming then that this principle PIM doesexist, it is easy to see why large changes in thetopic must be marked.
If a jump of topic is notmarked, the initial sentence in the new topicwil l  be interpreted in such a way as to add theleast possible to the preceeding.
This wil l  gen-erally lead to misinterpreting it, if there is anoverlap possible.
Or, if the addressee cannotfind overlap, he must draw upon scenarios 3 &be l ie f -s t ructure~that  the speaker might beassuming, failing which he perceives a "lost"feeling, as when a speaker appears to say some-thing completely incoherent, "it is raining.moreover, elephants are big.
"The markers of topic change simply indicateto the addressee that he should not use PIM ininterpreting what follows.
They are necessarywhenever the following material might be open toa different interpretation when PIM is applied.The existance of PIM requires that topic changemarkers exist & be used in this case.Moreover, as one often does not know in ad-vance exactly what words or constructions he wil luse, topic change markers are a useful heuristicdevice to avoid potential misinterpretations,when making a zapid topic change.
Indeed, whensuch a marker is approprite, but missing, theaddressee may (& will) search for some interpre-tation of the following sentence which will over-lap to at least some degree.
In such a case, itis a kindness to the addressee (& part of thenotion of good communication) to indicate thatsuch a search is unnecessary.The existance & use of topic changing mark-ers is thus required by PIM.
In fact, the wholeprohibition of rapid topic change (unless marked)is simply a reflection of PIM.
With no marker,the listener wil l  assume, by PIM, that each sen-tence overlaps seriously, in a maximal way, withits preceeding context.
Hence, a speaker -- whopresumably talks to be understood by someone --must construct each sentence so as to overlap.This is precisely what we have seen to be theinterpretation of the connectedness principle orrelation maxim.Thus this relation maxim can be derived fromPIM.
However, PIM cannot be derived from thismaxim.
PIM is much more general, disambiguatingeven pronouns based on collocated verbs, for ex-ample.
In the following example, .she is under~stood as neither the closest female antecedent,nor the subject of the preceeding sentence,237in the absence of other context.
"Mary toldSusan that Betty was coming.
Unfortunately, shemisunderstood it."
Rather, she is understood, inaccordance with PIM, as referring to whateverallows the greatest overlap with the preceedingcontext, here to misunderstand overlaps in mean-ing with to tell (which is something like 'tocause to understand, by speaking').
In such anexample, a change in the verb in the 2 ?
sentencecauses a change in the interpretation; if it werecome or arrive, she would refer instead to Betty,while if the 2 ?
sentence were "she said it soft-ly", she could only refer to Mary.Thus the relevance maxim can be seen as areflection for the speaker of a principle for theinterpretation (disambiguation) of sentences.
Itis perhaps for this reason that the relevancemaxim has been resistant to formalization.Happily however, the interpretation principle PIMis formalizable.Because the connectedness principle can bederived from PIM, but PIM cannot be derived fromit, & because PIM is formalizable, but not appar-ent l~an~elevance maxim, we may conclude that itis so derived, & that it either has no independ-ent existance, or possibly has existance only asa heuristic for the speaker.Moreover, it does not seem possible to statePIM for the speaker.
In the pronoun case above rstated for the speaker, it could be stated onlyas a rule for when a pronoun cQuld be used inplace of a more extensive description or name.Even when so stated, it is still an interpretiverule; a pronoun can be used if no ambiguity willresult, taking ambiguity to be measured relativeto the verbs or other things collocated with theprospective pronoun.
A more directed procedureis probably the case: try integrating the pro-jected sentence (with pronouns) into the precee-ding context's semantic structure.
If thatresults in an undesired meaning, then find orconstruct a more complete description.
When thisis executed in real time, it may result in thepost-sentence nominal (extra-position or rightdisplacement) which is not uncommon in spokenlanguage, "he came yesterday, the tall boy, thatis".Although we have concluded that this i maximis derived from an interpretive principle, notall maxims are interpretive rules.
One ofGrice's quantity maxims, "do not make your con-tribution more informative than is required" isprobably better formulated as MCCawley's least-effort principle.
5 What is minimized is not thetransfer of unrequired information, but somethinglike the number of lexical items or perhaps thenumber of syllables.
Speakers are generallylazy.
Either formulation, however, is clearlydescribing speaker behaviour, though to call ita maxim seems a bit inappropriate if MCCawley'sversion is correct.I note however that as a principle describ-ing speaker behaviour, this 'maxim' is availablefor use by a listener to discover more infer-mation than is overtly encoded.
By studyingwhat a person could have done (or said) but didnot, one can make more or less sure conjecturesas to the cause(s) of avoidance.
This maximseems to be no more than that.
It is seldomused by a speaker to transmit more informationthan is encoded.The other quantity maxim, "make your con-tribution as informative as is required", is inmany cases more a maxim for proper behaviour inthe social interaction, question-answer.
Whenone executes the question performance, theaddressee is obliged to give an answer, by therules of the social pact.
"Where are you going?...
Out" violates this maxim as stated, but isadequate to satisfy the social ritual initiatedby the question.
This maxim, then, may be deriv-ative from the meanings of performative elements,like question, command, &c. They are only lin-guistic expressions of socio-l inguistic rituals;it is these rituals which define the proper be-haviour of the participants, in precisely thesame way that performative expressions like "Ipromise ..." or "I pronounce you man & wife" do.Grice's quality maxims also, "de not saywhat you believe to be false" & "do not say thatfor which you lack adequate evidence", can bederived from the 'meaning' of the declarative orassertion performative.
As this is somethinglike "I warrentee or sign my name to the factthat this sentence (the proposition) is true", &the speaker opens himself to accepting publiccriticism if it is wrong, it is clear why mostspeakers (whom we assume would avoid criticism)will behave according to these quality maxims.Thus it appears that most of Grice's conver-sational maxims derive from other things, eitherprinciples of interpretation or the social ritu-als expressed in performatives.
The others,those of manner, are not only vague, but I sus-pect, also derive from other things.
But thatis the subject of an other study.
Our purposehere is the destruction of I maxim, & the reper-cussions that follow from this.I believe that I have shown that at least Iconversational maxim is a special case of a gen-eral rule for interpretation.
Some other maximsare derivable from other sources.
This inter-pretive rule throws considerable doubt on thepossibi l ity of a completely generative componentto connect semantic structure & syntactic form.It is, then, a challenge to proponents of gener-ative semantics or other non-interpretive theor:-ies of semantics.Indeed, the proper statement of most if notall semantic processes appears to lie in the in-terpretive direction.
The reverse direction,creating syntactic strings out of semanticstructures, is a highly non-deterministic pro--cess, or rather art, often done by trial & error,even by master writers.
Its fine execution,high rhetoric, is one of the highest human cap-acities, & is seldom attained except by 5% ofthe population.
These well-known facts alone238should warn us that formalization of the gener-ative direction may be very difficult.
The re o-verse direction, which all human beings can doeasily, quickly, & with seldom any hesitation orbacktracking (within the limits of the person'svocabulary), is at least deterministic for sam-ples of good communication.
It is thus muchmore liable to formalization.Thus I hope to have shown that one more as-pect of semantic processing allows & demandsformal representation only in the interpretivedirection.
The game of speaking appears to beto compose sentences that will be interpreted inthe way desired.
For this task, heuristics, butno fail-safe procedures can be given.
A sentencemay be composed, tested for its meaning in thecontext, & revised until it bears the desiredadditional meaning.
The game of understandingis much simpler; decode lexical items into theirmeaning components, & the syntactic structuresas well into meaning relations, & integrate thatresultant structure into the semantic structureof the preceeding context by overlapping it asmuch as possible.
Ambiguities met in this pro-cess should be resolved by this maximal over-lapping process, which is the principe d'inter-pretation minimale.
There are of course manyconstraints about definite marking, topic &focus marking, scenario-searching, &c.As a challenge to proponents of semanticinterpretation without a specific semantic rep-resentation, let me note that any & every state-ment of this procedure requires the use of anotion of "prior semantic context".
This is, Ibelieve, nothing more or less than a semanticrepresentation.Lastly, I would propose the followingspeculation based on observation of how we haveused the notion of topic.
In the early part ofthis discussion, we used a notion of topic orsubject of a conversation as if we knew what itwas.
In my limited experience, however, I havenot found it easy to identify quite what thetopic is, for most paragraphs or discussions,except in a vague way.
Yet it is a notion muchused in prescriptive studies of rhetoric (re~ducing semantic content to expression).
Couldit be that this notion is no more than: thatwhich ought not be changed without warning ?That is, I question whether this notion oftopic -- roughly, what one is talking about --is anything more than a speaker-oriented reflec-tion of the need for semantic overlap.
If so,then it is not much more than the sententialtopic in a topic-comment syntactic structure,which is the portion marked to overlap obliga-torily.
2 This notion of topic of discourse needhave little more existance than the successiveoverlaps found between pairs of successive sen-tences.Model writing usually does of course havean identifiable topic at any given point.
Andto be sure, there are rhetorical figures basedon a recurrent topic.
But such figures are notobligatory at all.
For ordinary writing or con-versation, I find it difficult to say more than,"this paragraph is about X, & Y, & Z, ..."It is thus that I find the notion of topic orsubject of a text suspicious, that it is perhapsan imaginary concept invented for teaching rhet-oric.
Indeed, we have found no use here for it,except in the prohibition of rapid changes intopic, which was really a requirement for someoverlap between sentences.Re ferencesi.
Grice, H.P.
'Logic & conversation' (1975) inCole & Morgan (Ed) Syntax & Semantics 3:S~eech Acts, Academic Press (N.Y.).
& (1967)part of Wil l iam James Lectures.2.
Hofmann, Th.R.
Description s~mantique & dy-namique du discours (1978)th~se pour laSorbonne (Paris)j & G.E.T.A (Grenoble).3.
--- 'What some semantic theories can't do'(1979) C.L.S.
Parasession on the elements,Univ Chicago (Chicago).4.
--- 'How to ignore pragmatics & get away withit, almost' (1980) Canadian Semiotics Assn--~239--
