COMPONENTS OF SEMANTIC REPRESENTATIONA.
E. KlbrikKaf.
strukturnoJ I prikladnoJ lingvlstikiMGU, 117 234 Moskva,  USSRThe problem of the meaning of the text - the end andproduct of speech activity, Is a central one both for theoret-Ica l  linguistics, and for the applied fields connected withitp such as artificial intelligence, question answ6ring,man-machlne communication, etc.The meaning of the text or, speaking more technically,the semantic representation is not, as it has been considereduntil recently , a homogeneous entity, that is why a specific-ation of its main dissimilar components may be helpful fortheoretical and applied investigations.Without striving for completeness and systematlcnessI will enumerate some of thesecomponents.
To avoid a possiblemisunderstanding it should be emphasized that I proceed froman assumption, which is far from being shared by everyone,that the semantic representation of an utterance has to re-flect the complete Info~nation pertaining to the properinterpretation of thls utterance, In connection with which Iwould regard the opposition of semantics and prsgmatlcs asinvalid.a.
Sltustlonal component is that part of the semanticrepresentation which is intended (in the norm) of express themain information content mapping some external (in relationto the message as such and to the speech act) situation.
Thiscomponent, undoubtedly, occupies the most prestigious posit-ion in the hierarchy of the components.
It is no mere chance- 154 -then  that  At constant ly  remains  In  the  cent re  o f  a t tent ionIn  semant ic  Invest igat ions ,  or  that  the  main  un i t  o f  thesyntactic level - the sentence, is adopted exactly for itsexpression.be Referential component is a relatlonal one; I ts  funct-ion As to co,relate the units of the text with the ideasabout the units of reality, to identify these units and actual-ize the sentence.
The semantic reprssentetlon, which lacks areferential component, cannot be Interpreted correctly.
(Thetypical representatives of referential meanings are articles,the categor~of numberjdemonstratlve pronouns.)c.
Mod~l component, being also relational# correlates aproposition with the sxtrallngulstlc situation.
This correl-ation expresses the degree of the speaker's certainty ofresllty/lrTealAty of the propositions thecharacter of thisest imat ion  be ing ,  as  a mat ter  o f  fac t ,  cont inuous  but  notdiscrete.
On the one end of the scale of modallty there isthe meaning of reallty/irr~alityj on the other - that of un-certain~7~ in between them there are various estimations ofthe de~ee of the speaker's certainty in relatlon to reality//irTeality.
(The typical representatlves of modal meanln~s ?are moods, modal verbs, parenthetic modal words.)d.
Dalotlc oomDonen~ correlates the content of an utter-ance with  coord inates  o f  the  speech  act .
Owing to  the  anthro -pc- and egocentrlem of the natural language the orientationof an utterance towards the speaker As perceived as the speechnorm.
(The re~Is r  means for expressing deictlc meanings arethe categories of person and tense, formulas of politeness,some categories of localization.)e.
P~cka~ln~ component correlates each utterance as apart of the discourse with the whole of the discourse.
Theimportance of this component is determined by the basicallynon-linear character of the meaning and bY the compositionalproblems connected wlth this.
The non-linear meaning can be"stretched" Into s linear string by s great variety of ways,- 155  -Jbut the arb i t ra r iness  of such a choice Is extreemly problem-a t i c .
The packaglnE component must not  only cur rent ly  coord in -ate the generated message with the prev ious text ,  but s imul -taneous ly  as I f  cont ro l  the text  from the poInt  o f  view ofthe hearer?s  comfort in  I t s  percept ion .
This component par -t la l l y  eo inc ldes  with the so ca l led  ac tua l  d iv i s ion  of thesentence .
(The un i ts  of th i s  component ere theme-theme,o ld -new in fo rmat ion ,  cont ras t lveness ,  top ic ,  empathy, var iousk inds of anaphor lc  express ions ,  e tc .
)f .
Lo~Igal component cor re la tes ,  or  coord inates ,  thetext  with the speaker ' s  knowledge of  the world, prov ides  thet rans i t ion  from the old to the new knowledge, and I t  I srespons ib le  fo r  the meaningfu lness  of the text .
(The essent -Ia l  e lements of th i s  component are presuppos i t ions  and theasser t ive  par t  of an u t te rance .
)g. EmQt~ve component cor re la tes  the content  with thepersona l i ty  of the speaker ,  with h i s  wishes,  eva luat ions ,  h i spsychophyulca l  cond i t ion .
( I t  I s  usua l ly ,  though not  alws.Ts,expressed by prosody.
)h. l l l ocut lonary  component cor re la tes  the u t te rance  wl tkthe speaker ' s  speech in tent ions ;  v i z .
to Inform the hearer ,to ln f luenee  h is  behavlour  and act ions ,  to s t imu la te  h i semot iona l ,  verba l  or in te l lec tua l  react ion ,  e tc .
- @hat Isgenera l ly  connected with the not ion  of l l l ocut lonery  fo rce .What can be  deduced from th is  apparent ly  Incomplete?
numera t Ion?1.
I t  seems that  the inab i l i ty  of natura l  languages toexpress ,  autonomously and on the sur face ,  var ious  componentsof  semantic representat ion  and the resu l t ing  necess i ty  toamalgamate them, become obvious.
I t  i s  what happens in  thefunct ion ing  of a l l  natura l  languages,  a l though the degree ofthe autonomy of th i s  o r  that  component can vary .
The fac tthat  components of semantic  representat ion  are not g iven- 156 .d i rec t ly  ?n the text~ exp la ins  why some of them have beend iscovered comparat ive ly  la te .2.
This .extended in terpretat ion  of the meanAng of thetext~ which leads to inc lud ing  In  the s t ruc ture  of semantic~epresentstAon the components enumerated above, proceedsf~om s preeumptAon that  At As In~ong to regsr~ the meaning ofthe text  as g iven to the speaker.
?n advance to be 'on l7verba l ly  expressed.
In  the process of  a thought-speech actthe meaning A8 being c res ted ,  or formed, that  Is  fo~ thef~not?on?ng model of language the tezl J_nal components ar~not  meaning and text ,  but  thought and (vocal) speech.
Unlessth i s  po in t  of  view becomes axAomatAc, many fundamentalcont rad ic t ions  ,of l lngu la tAc  theory as wel l  as obstac les  to8o lv ln~ a nuaber  of app l ied  problems, cannot be overcome.- 157 -
