TOWARDS AND E~PLICIT DESCRIPTION OP POSSESSIVITYParr Pi~haFaou l ty  of Mathematics and Physioa,  Char les Un ivers i ty ,118 00 Praha 1, Malostransk~ n.  25, CzechoslovakiaAny grA---ar must aocou~t for the category of possessiv-ity.
As far as we ~now this category is not yet exhaustivelydescribed for any language.
In this paper we want to demonstr-ate an explicit approach to this complicated language pheno-menon.
The functional generative grammar proposed by Sgalland worked out in the group of Faculty of Mathematics andPhysics, Charles University, is chosen for this description.Distinction between the ontologi~,al notion of possess-ivlty and the language counterpart of it is~ drawn and distinct-ion between meaning of possessivity and forms of its express-ion is shown.
These distinctions are exemplified on the not-ion of so-called possessive dative, which is not an expressionof possessive meaning.
Arguments for establishing, this mean-ing of dative are shown as based on.
ontological criteria.Various constructions and expressions used for express-ing the possessive meaning are enumerated and their syntacticand semantic character is discussed.Three main meanings of the verb %0 have are described:I. full lexlcal meaning - a possessive one connected withactive - passive transformation, 2. copulative meaning Iconnected with he__construction transformation, 3. copulativemeanin~ connected with any of these transformations.
Somedifferences between copula to b._._.~e and copulative to have areshown.
In the b_e-sentences the subject member of the class is- 232 -named in the predicate.
In the have-sentences the object as asingle element is attached to the subject.Similarly different meanings of the verb to belonF~arestated.
1. location, 2. appurtenance, 3. possession.
Classific-ation is rejected as meaning of this verb and is shown as acontent phenomenon.
Other expressions for possessivity asgenitives, possessive pronouns and possessive adverbs arepartially discussed and compared with results obtained forverbal expressions of poesessivity.
Finally a list of importsntmeaning distinctions (e.g.
possessivity versus appurtenance)is given and a tentative table of homonyms (and synonymy) offorms of their expressing is outlined.In addition some simplifications of the complete linguist-ic description are shown for applications in question-answer-ing systems and some special treatments adjusted to a given pur-I~Sa are suggested.
We suppose that from the point of view ofvarious kinds of applications certain simplifications ofthe theoretical linguistic conclusions are not only acceptablebut in some cases even necessary.
It seems for example thatin certain sublanguage in a limited area of texts some contentregularities are met with such a high probability, that we canaccept them in these texts as valid arguments for a change ina demcription of meaning.
It seems also better to use in q-asystems the genitive construction as a basic expression ofthe meaning of possession and appurtenance rather than have-or belon~ to-constructions~ which seem to be the best underly-ing structure in a general theoretical description of grammar.- 233 -l
