COL~G82, .r.
Horec~ {ed.\]North-HoP.and PubficJ~g Company?
Aca4enrla, 1982MACHINE TRANSLATION SYSTEMS AND COMPUTER DICTIONARIESIN THE INFORMATION SERVICE.
WAYS OF THEIRDEVELOPMENT AND OPERATIONIvan I. Oubine, Boris D. TikhomirovThe USSR Center for Translation of Scientificand Technical Literature and DocumentationMoscow, USSRThe paper outlines fields of application ofmachine translation systems and computerdictionaries in technical translation as wellas possible ways of development and operationof computer dictionaries.
Interaction betweenlinguists and commercial machine translationsystem is describedON APPLICATION OF MACHINE TRANSLATION SYSTEMS AND COMPUTERDICTIONARIESTranslation of scientific and technical l iterature is assuming thesedays growing importance in the information service in various branchesof science and technology.
The volume of translations done at theUSSR Center for Translation has grown from 480 thousand pages in 1974up to 1440 thousand pages in 1980.
The same trend iN evident in othertranslation bureaus of the couhtry.
Traditional means of translationwhen the main tools of the translator trade are a type-writer andpaper dictionaries do not permit anymore to cope with the avalancheinformation flow requiring translation.
Machine translation systems(MT) and computer dictionaries (CD) are bound to become principalaids to technical translation.Solving one and the same problem MT systems and CD at the same timeessentially differ in structure, aims and technological methods oftheir application in the information service.
MT systems are intendedfor full translation of texts from one language into another and inprinciple are aimed at replacing a human translator with a computerworking either in automatic mode or in the interactive mode with thehuman editor.
Present day commercial MT Systems possess a number ofdistinctive features.
Most important of them are the following:MT systems are bil ingual and assymetric (one-way translation), coverone subject field and have high speed of translation.
It means that,as a rule, commercial MT systems are designed for translation of textsof a definite subject-field, from the source into the target languageand they cannot be reversed or substituted with other languageswithout a great deal of additional l inguistic and programming work.Considerably surpassing the human translator in speed MT systems aresubstantially inferior to him in quality of translation, that is whymachine translation in most cases requires post-editing.
Taking intoaccount these features of MT systems as well as the high cost oftheir development it is expedient to aim MT systems at translationof large volumes of one-subject-f ield standardized texts.
But inpractice a great part of technical translations do not meet theserequirements.
For example, the USSR Center for Translation doestranslations from 30 languages in 24 subject-fields~ and the volumeof translations in different languages and subject-f ields variesfrom a dozen to dozens of thousands pages.
Thus, languages and289~290 I.I.
OUBINE and B.D.
TIKHOMIROVsubject-f ields with small volumes of trarslations, texts of advahcedcomplexity or of special importance drop out of the sphere of MT sys-tems employment.
To develop MT systems for this purpose would be un-profitable.
Nor will it be wise to use MT systems for translation ofvarious kinds of word lists~ i.e.
catalogues, invoices, lists ofspare parts, etc.
Suoh texts should be translated by CD or humantranslators with the help of CD.Contrary to MT systems eomputer dictionaries are designed for supply-ing a user with the target language equivalents and not for fulltranslation of texts, and are essential ly aimed at a dialogue witha human translator to improve his output rather than replace him inthe translat ion process.
A technical translator spends half of hisworking time on dictionary look-up.
If we relieve him of this time-consuming chore his productivity wil l  increase essentially.POSSIBLE WAYS OF CD DEVELOPMENT AND OPERATIONAt present a number of computer dictionaries and terminological databanks are in  operation in different countries.
Most important ofthem are: the computer dictionary of the Federal Language Serviceof FRG, terminological data bank EURODIC~JTOM of the European Commu-nity and TEAM terminology data bank of the Siemens AG.
Computer dic-tionaries vary in structure, computer base, volume of informationin the dictionary entry, purpose, subject-f ields and other featuresbut at the same time they possess a number of common features whichwe consider fundamental for CD.
Computer dictionaries are mostlymulti l ingual, symmetric, dynamic and cover more than one subject-field.Taking into consideration wide range and specific character of itstasks the USSR Center for Translat ion is developing three MT systems(from English, German and French into Russian) and in cooperationwith the Moscow State University - computer dictionary MULTILEX.
Itis designed as a mult i l ingual  (Russian~ English, German and French)and symmetric dict ionary (i.e.
query and response are allowed inany of the included languages).
Its software is oriented for the usewithin the framework of the ES computers ~ system in the followingmodes:- single or batch query and response via video display terminal;- single or batch query via video display ter~ninal~ from magnetictape or cards , and response~in the form of a hard copy.The l inguistic form of a query is a very important feature of CD.The possibi l ity of making a query in any text form expands greatlythe circle of CD potential users and ~le range of its applications.CD MULTILEX is designed for users with different language knowledgeand can be used for processing standardized texts with ce?tain re-strictions in lexicon and syntax as well as texts without any re-strictions.
In order to meet ~hese requirements CD MULTILEX providesfor making queries in any text form for every language included .There are two basic approaches to solving the text-form-~query prob-lem: either to form a search file of word forms or a fi le of stemsor morphs with morphological  analysis~ In order to achieve optimumperformance of a CD the di lemma between a word-form dict ionary anda dictionary of stems should be solved with due regard to the gram-matical structure of the source language and the type of texts tobe processed by CD.
The stem dictiona1~y approach is more suitablefor synthetic languages with high degree of inflexion (in o~r case~it is Russian).
The word'form dict ionaries would better suitanalytical languages (in our ease~ it is English)?
French and G~rmanoccupy, in this respeet~ an intermediate stage between Russian andTHE COMPUTER IN THE TRANSLATION PROCESS 291English.In MULTILEX both approaches are used.
For English, the word-form-file approach is used.
It means that besides the dictionary forms ofenglish entries (which may be uniterms, multiterms or collocations)all their word-forms, spelling variants and standard abbreviationswith reference to dictionary forms are stored in the word-form file.Query defining is carried out by mapping the word'form realised inthe text to the word-forms in th~ file.
For Russian, the stem-fileapproach is used.
Query defining in this case is done by segmentationof the requested word-form into its stem and inflexions.
For Frenchand German, we use a combined approach.
The response in all the lan-guages  is given in the traditional dictionary form.CD potential is determined to a great extent by the type of informa-tion, its volume and composition of the CD entry.MULTILEX entrycontains the following information: head word in the dictionary form;part-of-speech symbol; word-forms including spelling variants,abbreviations, or stem/stems; target language equivalents (T~);rel iabil ity index of TE; notations which help a user to choose thenecessary TE of several registered in the entry; terminological nota-tions which specify the subject-field of the TE; definit ion of thehead word; i l lustrative phrases; multiterms and collocations whichinclude the head word.
As MULTILEX will serve as a new terms bank,a special zone is forseen in its entry for the name of the author ofa new term, source and date of registration in the bank.
The follow-ing information is obligatory for all the entries: head-word, part-of-speech symbol, word forms or stems, subject-f ield notat ion ,target language equivalents and rel iabi l i ty index.As a rule, in a new field of science or technology a considerabletime is required to form a terminology system and recognize, thenecessity to issue bil ingual terminological dictionaries for thisnew subject-field.
Meanwhile, l iterature on the subject is beeingtranslated from one language into another.
This fact brings a touchof spontaneity to the process of forming target language terminologysystem.
It leads to the growth of synonymy and polysemy which hamperscommunication between those working in the new field.
The CD makers,as a rule, do not take the responsibi l i ty to standardize terminology.Notwifhstanding,this problem is not to be overlooked.
Should theuser trust CD, its every entry should be supplied with rel iabi l i tyindex.
Considering rigid time limits set for MULTILEX makers theyshould be provided with a rather simple procedure of determining therel iabil ity index for any TE.
Five degrees of rel iabi l ity have beenchosen to suit the purpose.
The highest rel iabil ity index is givento the TE which comply with the home and international standards.Next in line are the TE borrowed from reliable dictionaries.
The TErel iabi l ity index depends on the rel iabil ity of the source.
The low-est reliabil ity index is given to TE which are not registered in anylexicographical source or any other written document.
Reliabil ity ofa TE source is determined separately for each case.
One and the samelexicographical source may have different degrees of rel iabi l ity fordifferent lexical strata borrowed from this source.
The TE reliabi-lity index is not a fixed value and is subject to changes throughMULTILEX operation.The users having different tasks and levels of language knowledge,different characteristics of the entry's structure are required.Thus, in traditional l ixicography a dictionary entry contains,besides TE, various information about the head word.
As a rule,this information is redundant for the professional technical trans-lator who commands profound knowledge of the source language.
On theother hand, the entry of a technical dictionary is not as rich and292 I.I.
OUBINE and B.D.
T~HOM~OVin most cases, contains practically no add.tional data besides TE.It is not sufficient for technical specialists whose knowledge offoreign languages is, as a rule, mediocre or poor.
This dilemmabetween the level of foreign language eompetence of the user and hisvaried tasks, on the one hand, and the volume and type of data, onthe other, cannot be solved in traditional lexicogralJgy because ofthe static nature of paper dictionaries.CD MULTILEX combines the qualities of general vocabulary and techni-cal dictionaries and solves the above mentioned dilemma by providingthe user, in its f irst stage of development, with the following fourvariants of response:i) complete entry with the data registered inall zones; 2) entry without col location zone; 3) entry without col-locations and i l lustrative phrase~s (i.e.
only TE and their notations)4) one TE only.
For entries with more than one TE,the first one isgiven.
We intend to enlarge potential versions of response volumewith response variants by subject-f ield notations~ TE rel iabi l i tyindex, definitions, etc.Selection of vocabulary units to a dictionary, CD included, largelydepends on its purposes and potential users.
CD MULTILEX is designedfor off-staff and staff translators and editors, as well as technicalspecialists.
Research shows that the main diff icult ies for profes-sional translators and editors occur when they are confronted withnew, not yet registered in traditional dictionaries uniterms andmultiterms, market names of new products, acronyms and abbreviations.Technical specialists consult dictionaries for general vocabularyand general scientif ic terms as well.
Of particular dif f iculty forthem is translation of verbs and verbal collocations.The first version of CD MULTILEX (English-Russian and Russian-Engl ishCD on eomputer and data processing) is now in operation at the USSRCenter for Translat ion with about 35,000 entries for each language.Mult iterms and collocations constitute about 80% of MULTILEX body.The response speed via video display terminal is less thin 1 sec.
fora single query, for batch processing with alphabetized queries in theform of a hard copy - about 2 min.
for a 100 question batch.MULT ILEX has proved to be an efficient translation aid.
But, in ourview, the speeding up of technical translation process should besought in optimum combination of MT systems and computer dictionaries.INTERACTION BETWEEN LINGUISTS AND MT SYSTEM IN THE PROCESS OFCOMMERCIAL OPERATIONMT systems designed for commercial use require, as a rule, constantupgrading of their l inguistic components.
This is due to the emergenceof new terms, expansion of subject-f ields and error-statist icanalysis.
Consequently production team linguists should refine andperfect the system not only during its development, but in the processof operation as well.As is known, the development of commercial machine translation (CMT)systems differs considerably from that of experimental machine trans-lation (EMT) systems.
The difference is conditioned by the followingconsiderations:- in EMT restrict ions may be imposed on the phrase structure (e.g.syntactic similarity of source an~ target phrases may be demanded),whereas CMT allows no such restrictions;- CMT systems handle l inguistic data (dictionaries, tables, etc.
)considerably larger in volume than that of EMT systems;CMT software package must ensure maximum language conversionrate because translation cost depends to a great extent on the timeconsumed;THE COMPUTER IN THE TRANSLATION PROCESS 293- in CMT systems amendment and correction of routines and linguist-ic components is carried out in the process of commercial operation;- target texts produced by CMT systems have to be post-edited toachieve the quality required by the customer;- the form of a hard-copy printout in CMT (page structure, titles,tables, etc.)
must not differ considerably from the traditional one;- EMT systems usually handle a thoroughly pre-edited text, whilein CMT a good deal of misprints occur while feeding texts into thecomputer~It is evident that CMT systems require a m~e extensive and thorough-ly designed software with due eons iderat io~for  economic and techno-logical aspects of the problem.
A unified software package has beendeveloped in the USSR Center for Translation for the MT systems -AMPAR (English into Russian) and NERPA (German into Russian) - design-ed for commercial use.
Considerable attention has been given toproviding production team linguists with convenient means for develop-ing and upgrading the system.Since inter- and post-editing are used in the systems to improve thequality of translation, the process is ~ iv ided  into several stages:initial processing, inter-editing~ language conversion, post-editing~and target text printout.
Stages in their turn, are split into stepscomprising the most essential algorithms of the system.
Steps thatare expected to undergo frequent alterations, are composed of stepsubroutines, each realizing ~ some specific parsing or synthesis pro-cedure.
Step subroutines consist of operators performing definitelinguistic functions.
A special programming language for linguisticprocedures has been devfsed in order to give linguists a means ofmaximum direct part ioipatio~ in development and improvement of theMT sys tems.Information files of the MT systems include dictionaries, tables,source and target texts, and a corpus of information cells whereessential information about words or groups of words is stored.Subroutines compiled by production team linguists are fed into thecomputer and converted into a form convenient for futher use.
In theprocess of translation they are called up from disk storage into theMOS memory and executed by the interpretation program.
The assemblylanguage has been used by programming engineers to develop programsnot subject tO alterations (text feed-in, dictionary look-up, monitor-ing~ etc.)
with the aim of minimizing operation time.The modular structure of the software package, where an algorithm isdivided into several procedures each beeing executed by a separateprogram module, considerably facil itates program compiling.
Informa-tion files (subject dictionaries, tables) are also characterized bymodular structure.
Due to relative independence of modules, the soft-ware package is flexible enough and can be easily revised by introduc-ing new modules, correcting or deleting the existing ones or reorder-ing the sequence of their operation; that is, the software makes itpossible to generate different versions of the MT system during bothrunning-in and commercial operation.The basic operation modes of the system are:file maintenance, monitor-ing and work.
File maintenance mode serves to create, amend, correct,and print files used in processing source language texts.
File main-tenance software package developed for this purpose acts autonomouslyof the text processing programs.
The work mode implies mass transla-tion of texts by the operational version of the system in which thesequence of steps is fixed and work data files are used.
The choiceof subject-field dictionaries is determined by the control informa-tion accompanying each text.
In addition to a target language text,some intermediate information is printed out in the work mode294 I.l.
OUBINE and I* ,.
TIKHOMIROVconcerning errors, missing words, ~trad~ctory situations, etc.In some cases the intermediate inf, or:~ion is sufficient to determinethe nature of the errors.
In other CasJs,linguists can obtainadditional information by rerunnin~ the defective fragments in themonitoring mode.
While the same operational version of the systemas for the work mode is used, a highly detailed selective printoutis obtained by typing in special instructions.
At request the follow-ing data can be printed out: the input text with a reference gridhelping to select required fragments; the corpus of information cellsaccompanied by the corresponding so1~rce language and target languagewords or collocations (the latter after translation); information onsubroutine operators and their sequ%nce of work; alterations producedby subroutine operators into the inlormation cells; entries selectedfrom the source dictionary t9 match text wQrd-forms; target diction-ary entries selected for synthesis; ~ource and target languagesentence pairs.
The nature and volume of printed information isdetermined by the linguist depending on the problem facing him.The MT systems have two kinds of files: operational and upgrading.At the initial stage upgrading files are identical to the operationones.
Then, on the basis of error analysis, linguists correct andamend the upgrading files.
As a sufficient number of alterations isintroduced into the upgrading files, a duplicate version of the sys-tem is generated and all amendments are checked and tested in themonitoring mode.
After a thorough checking the upgraded files re-place the old ones in the operational version of the system.
Theinformation in the operational files is rearranged so as to avoiddegradation of the processing rate.As a result, production team linguists have the following opportuni-ties: to take part directly in developing and perfecting programmodules; to obtain information on missing dictionary entries andtypical errors; to promptly determine the nature of error and locateit; to produce diverse versions of the system by introducing new andaltering the existing modules and their sequence without interferingwith commercial operation of the system; to check the applicabil ityof newly produced version for singling out the most efficient oneto be input as the operational version; to monitor the state ofl inguistic data and program modules and correct them if necessary;to intervene in the process of translation at different stages inorder to introduce corrections into the text being processed.Linguists interact with operational and service programs and defineoperation modes with the help of specific control language instruct-ions.
Instructions are typed in before or during the performance.Thus, the described software package provides production teamlinguists with the means to develop and adjust step routines, tocompile and upgrade linguistic data files, and to monitor the MTsystem without programmers' assistance.
