M REPRESENTATION OF SEMANTIC INFORMATION IN GMANMACHINE READABLE DICTIONARIESWinf r ied  Lenderslns t l tu t  fu r  Komm~nikatlonsforschung u.  PhonetAk, Univ.
BonnPoppe lsdor fer  A l lee  47, D-5300 Bonn,The basis of this paper is a comparative stud~ on Germanmachine readable dictionaries which has been conducted duringthe last two years In connection with a research projectfinanced by the German minister for science and technology.The aim of this project was to compare and to describe about12 dictionaries, used in computer systems, in more or lessconventional language analysis and synthesis systems as wellas in understanding systems.
The comparison and descriptionwas oriented to the data basis, the theoretical background,the field of application, and especially the microstructuraof these dictionaries.
In this paper we want to discuss aspecific problem of lexAcal mlcrostructure which has arisenin the context of thls project, the problem of semantic In-formation.
This problem Is most relevant since on the oneside all of the exAstlng machine readable dictionaries arerelatively restricted in their semantic dimension, and on theother side more detailed information about the semantics ofwords is extremely necessary for language analysis and synthes-Is programs as well as for understanding systems.The first point of my discussion is to explain how themeaning&of German words are actually represented in themlcrostructure of the Intended dictionaries.
My examples aretaken from the dictionary components of the systems SUSY,LIMAS, HAM-RPM, PLIDIS, BEAST/BACONp from the German word data- 176  -bank "WahrAg" and from several other more theoreticalapproaches.My second point Is the question how far in these approach-es the general IAnguIatic problem of representation of wordmeanings has been solved and which elements of the semanticlevel are normally not to be found in these dictionaries.
Inthe third point I want to advocate the thesis that in a mach-ine readable dActlonar~j the meaning of a word can be repres-ented by a set of semantic relations.
In connection with thisthesis recent developments An word semantics especially An thefields of frame theory and semantic network theory have tobe d i scussed .The general assumption of this paper is that "dictionary"- this concept Is used synonymous with "lexicon" - desJ~nat-es an~ co l lec t ion  of  word elements o f  a spec i f i c  language;every  element o f  such a co l lec t ion  should be connected wi th  acer ta in  se t  o f  l i ngu is t i c  In fo rmat ion .
This se t  o f  l i ngu is t i cAnforuat lon  I s  ca l led  the m/croat ructure  of the d ic t ionary .The mlc~ostmcture  should be cons idered  as an n - tupe l  o fdescr ip t ive  e lements ,  each of  which cons is ts  of an In format ionf ie ld .
Examples are the f ie ld  of  morpholog ica l  In fo rmat ion ,the f ie ld  of  mox*phological in fo rmat ion ,  the f ie ld  of  phonolog-I ca l  An fomat ion  and the f ie ld  o f  semantic  In fo rmat ion .
Thef ie ld  of semantic in fo rmat ion  aga in  may be regarded as an - tupe l  of  In fo rmat ion .
The e lements  of th i s  n - tupa l  may bespec i f i c  re la t ions  which combine the concerned lex ica l  elementwi th  o ther  lex ica l  e lements  o f  the Intended d ic t ionary .
- Theob jec t  of  th i s  paper I s  not to d i scuss  how the semant ic  d i -mension o f  an Ind iv idua ls  d ic t ionary  or  lex icon  may be organ-Iced but to show in  what way machine readable  d ic t ionar ieswhich are determined fo r  use in  d i f fe rent  computer systemscould be const ruc ted  In  the i r  semantic  leve l  with respect  tothe resu l t s  of recent  d i scuss ion  in  Computat ional  L ingu is t i csand A~tifAcial Intelligence Research.- 177-
