COLING 82, J. Horeck~ (ed.
)North.Holland Publishing Company?
Academia, 1982AN ENGLISH JAPANESE MACHINE TRANSLATION SYSTEM OFTHE TITLES OF SCIENTIFIC AND ENGINEERING PAPERSMakoto Nagao, Jun-ichi Tsuji i  (Kyoto University)Koji Yada (Electrotechnical Lab.
)Toshihiro Kakimoto (Fujitsu Co.)JAPANThe title sentences of scientif ic and engineering papers areanalyzed by simple parsing strategies, and only eighteenfundamental sentential structures are obtained from ten thou-sand titles.
Title sentences of physics and mathematics ofsome databases in English are translated into Japanese withtheir keywords, author names, journal names and so on byusing these fundamental structures.
The translation accuracyfor the specific areas of physics and mathematics from INSPECdatabase was about 93%.i.
INTRODUCTIONThere have been many researches on syntactic analysis of natural language by comput-er, but still no reliable grammatical rules are established yet which can beapplicable to any utterances of a language.
Universal grammatical rules for alanguage looks like almost hopeless.
Grammatical rules to be prepared depend heavi-ly on the text to be analyzed.
Hence the concept of subgrammar is introduced.
Itdoes not necessari ly cover all the different kinds of sentential structures of alanguage.
A grammar which covers just the set of expressions to be treated issufficient from the engineering point of view.We developed a machine translation system which translates the titles of scientificand engineering papers from English into Japanese.
More than 98% of the titles inscientific and engineering papers are noun phrases, so that the system is designedto translate only the noun phrases.
The~verbs can be used in the forms of to +infinitive , verb-ing, and verb-ed.
The system can not treat the embedded sentenceswhich are introduced by relative pronouns.Then the essential structures the system can treat are composed of simple nounphrases, verbs of the forms of to-infinitive, verb-ing, and verb-ed, and preposi-tions.
Here a simple noun phrase means the juxtaposition (endocentric structure)of adject ives nouns, and some other elements.
The word order of a simple nounphrase can be the same in English and Japanese.
The sentential structures obtainedafter parsing each simple noun phrase into a noun is called a skeleton pattern.
Wecan expect that the variety of such skeleton patterns is very few for the restrict-ed area of titles of scientif ic and engineering papers.When the variety is very few, we do not need further syntactic analysis for theseskeleton patterns.
For each skeleton pattern the corresponding Japanese skeletonpattern (word order change) can be given.
Thus the subgrammar in this system is avery peculiar one which is an accumulation of heuristics of the title structures.We util ized this specific nature of the titles in our machine translation system.The correct translation rate for the wide variety of scientific and engineeringpapers is about 80%, but for the specific areas of physics and mathematics fromINSPEC database the score was about 93%.
The system is now used for the conversion245246 M. NAGAO et alof English databases into Japanese databases.
This system thus opened a way forthe Japanese people to make access to English databases in their own language.2.
SPECIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF TITLE SENTENCESTitle sentences of scientific and engineering papers in English have the followingproperties from the point of view of translation.
(I) Nouns in the titles are usually specific terminological words in a particularfield.
The translation of these words into Japanese is almost unique.
This makesavoid a difficult problem of the selection of proper translation words from severalcandidates, which we encounter in ordinary words.
(2) Many colloquial expressions exist in the titles.
These are regarded as idioms,and their internal structures are not analyzed.
The whole expressions are storedin a dictionary with their Japanese translations.
(3) A simple noun phrase in English can be translated into Japanese by replacingeach word into Japanese without any word order change.
(4) Many of the special terminological words in science and engineering are com-pound words.
They are treated as such in a dictionary.
When the translation of asimple noun phrase according to (3) is not acceptable, the phrase is stored in adictionary as a compound word with its translation.
Therefore the dictionary look-up is done by the longest match principle.
(5) The word order change in the translation is 0nly possible in the cases whereverbs and prepositions are used.
This word order change can be done at the levelof skeleton patterns.3.
DICTIONARY LOOK-UPThe block diagram of our title translation system is shown in Fig.
i.
The firststep is the dictionary look-up of words and idioms.
We gathered a lot of specificexpressions as idioms, such as "time varying (mechanism)", "based on ...", and soon.
"verb-ing" can be a noun, adjective, and present participle, but there aremany verb-ing's whose grammatical function is almostunique: accounting, bonding,engineering and so on as nouns, superconducting as adjective, and using, determin-ing as verbs which demand objects or complements.
The dictionary has this informa-tion.4.
CONJUNCTIVE PHRASEThe second step is the parsing of conjunctive phrases by "and" and "or".
As iswell known there is an ambiguity for the conjunctive phrases of the forms:A and B of C ,Adjective + noun + and + noun,and so on.
It is very difficult to determine the scope of conjunctive phrases,and to get the correct parsing without the detailed semantic analysis.
The presentprogram parses simply the nearest two terms which have the same parts of speech,such as:adj.
+ and + adj.
~ adj.verb + and + verb ~ verbverb-ing(-ed) + and + verb-ing(-ed) ~ verb-ing(-ed)noun + and + noun ---> nounSpecial consideration is given to the following specific conjunctive phrase:MACHINE TRANSLATION SYSTEM OF TITLES 247step i@ 1 i dictionary look-up and idiom findingstep 2\[ parsing ofprogram ~ phrases conjunctive Istep 3transiti?n Inetwork  lparslng ?f simple n?unl phrase by transitionnetworkstep 4I I handling ?f special 'program ~ structures and seman-tic disamblguationstep 5 II skeleton pattern matchingand word order change forJapanesestep 6 II synthesis of Japanese Ititle sentenceFig.
i.
Flow of Title Translation.prep.
+ noun + and + prep.
+ no~1 ---> (prep.
+ noun) + and + (prep.
+ noun)---> prep.
+ nounConjunctive structures such as,(noun + prep.
+ noun) + and + (noun + prep.
+ noun)(adj.
+ noun) + and + nouncan not be analyzed correctly.5.
SIMPLE NOUN PHRASENext step is the parsing of a simple noun phrase, which may include some otherparts of speeches.
The recognition of a simple noun phrase is done by the finiteautomaton model shown in Fig.
2.
The recognition starts from the initial state,and the proper transfer of the state is done for the sequential input of words.When the automaton reaches to the final state the recognition of the end of asimple noun phrase is ended.
The word order of the corresponding Japanese is thesame as English within the scope of a simple noun phrase.248 M.
NAGAOetM.
(n, sig, pl, pn, hum)(n, sig, pl, pn, num)(ing, n,(det, pn, adJ) ~ pl, pn, num)(n, sig, pl, pn, ing, num)(adj, adv)(adv) \ (ed) (adj)(adj)sig, pn, pl,ing, v, num)(prep)adv : adverbn : ~ounsig : singularpl : pluralpn : pronounnum:  numberdet : determineradj : adjectivev : verbing : verb-inged : verb-edprep: preposit ion(ed, adv)Fig.
2.: Initial State: Final StateTransit ion Network (TN).6.
SPECIAL WORD SEQUENCEThere  are some particular word sequences which must be treated separately.
Typicalones are as follows.
(a) n I + of + n 2 : This word sequence is regarded as a noun after parsing.
Thisis translated into the Japanese word order : n 2 + 6) + n I.
(b) prep.
+ n (at the beginning of the titles) : An example is "On pattern recog-nition".
In this case, very tricky treatment is done as "prep.
+ n ~ n".
Thismeans that prep.
is an accessory to the noun phrase (n) which follows it, and thestructure of this noun phrase is the main part of the analysis.
The translationis first done to the noun phrase, and at the final stage the translation of thepreposition is attached to the end of the translated noun phrase.
(c) verb-ed + prep.
: This structure is just parsed to prep.
which has the modi-fying term of verb-ed.
The Japanese translation is "prep.
+ verb-ed + ~L~ (pas-sive particle).
An example is :MACHINE TRANSLATION SYSTEM OF TITLES 249a paper presented to a conference ---> a paper to a conference(presented)(conference) (to) (present) (passive) (paper)(d) verb-ing + prep.
(at the beginning of the titles).
An example is "concerningto ...".
Syntactically "verb-ing" in this case plays the same role as a noun.
Soit is replaced by noun.
(e) noun + verb-ing + prep.
: The determination of the grammatical role of verb-ing in this case is very difficult.
By the title sentences it is frequent thatverb-ing is used as a noun (gerund), and the interpretation ofnoun + verb-ing ---> noun + noun ---> nounis adopted.7.
SEMANTICDISAMBIGUATIONAfter the parsing of the above particular structures there stil l remain some moredifficult structures which require semantic treatment.
"verb-ing + noun" is atypical such structure.
Verb-ing can be either a modifying element to the noun,or a present participle which requires the noun as an object.
An example is:measuring temperature ---> ~ ~ ~,~ ~\[temperature) (measuring)measuring device ----> ~'\] ~ ~,(measuring) (device)Therefore the check must be done between the verb and the Noun which follows as towhether the noun can be a subject or an object to the verb.For this purpose five semantic elements are introduced.
These are shown in Table\] ith some nouns classified by these elements.
The same semantic information isu, ~ to denote what kind of nouns can be a subject or an object to a verb.
Fore~ ?le the subject nouns to the verb "measure" have the semantic categories oftoo?
and theory, and the object nouns for the verb have the semantic categories ofphysical object, and aspect.
By checking these semantic relations the syntacticstructure and the translation word order are determined.verb-ing + noun ---+ verb ~ ~ noun(subject)verb-ing + noun ---> noun ~ verb ~ $ ...(object)Table i. Semantic elementstool : instrument, machine, probe, etc.aspect : velocity, temPerature , resistance, etc.physical object : metal, water, oil, waveguide, etc.theory : principle, technique, approach, etc.unit : cm, degree, etc.250 M. NAGAO et aiSuch semantic checking is performed in the following syntactic structures.
(i) n + verb-ing : if semantic check does not work, verb-ing is regarded as agerund and is modified by the noun.
(2) verb-ing + n : if the noun phrase (n) has an article, it is an object ofthe verb.
If semantic check does not work, n is regardedas an object.
(3) n I + verb-ing + n 2 : Semantic check between the verb and n , and the verb I and n 2 is done.
If semantic check does not work, theinterpretation is that n I is an object of the verb,and verb-ing modifies n 2.
(4) prep.
+ verb-ing +prep.
: verb-ing is understood as a gerund.Table 2.
Skeleton patterns and the frequency of their usagein INSPEC translation.English skeleton pattern Japanese word order Frequency forINSPEC titles(i) - ing.
n F(2) n(3) n ?
- ing(4) n l .p rep-n  2(5) n l -p rep 'n2 .
ing(6) n l .p reP l .n2 .
ing .preP2 .n  3(7) n l .p reP l -n2 .preP2 .n  3(8) n l .p reP l .n2 .preP2-n  3.preP3"n 4(9) nl-prePl 'n2-preP2-n 3 ?preP3"n4"preP4"n 5(i0) nl.prePl-n2.preP2.n3.prep 3 ?n4-preP4"ns"preP5-n 6- ing  ?
nnn ?
- ingn2"prep.n 1n2 .
ing 'prep .n  1n3"preP2 .n2 .
ing -preP l 'n  1n3"preP2"n2"preP l 'n  1n4"preP3"n3"prep 2 ?n2"preP l -n  1n5"preP4.n4"prep 3.n3"preP2"n2"preP l 'n  1n6"prePs"n5-preP4.np reP3.n3 .preP2"n2-preP l 'n  1(ii) nl.prep-n2-v.n 3(12) n .v  .adj(13) n I ?
v .n  2(14) nl.v-n2.prep.n 3(15) nl-v.prep-n 2(16) v ?
n(17) v.nl 'n 2(18) v.nl-prep.n 2n2"prep 'n  1" 1~ "n 3" ~ .vn.
\[~, .ad j -vn 1.
(~ .n 2.
~ .vn 1" t~ "n3"prep'n2"vn 1" \[~ "n2"prep'vn .vn I. t~i "n 2"v" ~xn2.prep-n I.
~-v046605360014732MACHINE TRANSLATION SYSTEM OF TITLES 2518.
SKELETON PATTERNThe parsing process thus far produces a skeleton pattern for each title sentence.For example:# An Automated General Purpose Test System for Solid State Oscillators.
!
(Skeleton) Syste~m for Oscillators (n + prep.
+ n)# A Laser Doppler Technique for Measuring Flow Velocities in High CurrentArc Discharge.
(Skeleton) Technique for Measuring Velocities in Discharge.
(n + prep.
+ ver-ing + n + prep.
+ n)The skeleton patterns obtained from ten thousand title sentences are astonishinglyfew.
These are shown in Table 2, wit h the frequency of occurrence of each patternfor about a thousand title sentences of physics and mathematics in INSPEC database.The Japanese word order is also given to each skeleton patterns.The translation of prepositions is set unique by the present program as shown inTable 3.
There are of course several cases where different Japanese expressionsshould be adopted for a preposition depending on the context.
This is an importantproblem to be solved in the future, eTable 3.
Translation of preposition.ofbywithatfor0)t:.
,%" d 5tooninabout- -~ (n. to .n)9 TEST RESULTA test result of the title translation from INSPEC database is shown in Table 4.Average time necessary for the translation of a title is 0.i second.
After thetranslation of i000 titles, the dlctlpnary was updated by the new words whichappeared in the input data and which were absent in the dictionary.
Then the samei000 titles were again translated, and the rejection was checked.
Then the nexti000 titles were handled in the same way, and so on.Table 4.
Test result of title translation from INSPEC database.titlenimberi "-' i000computertime(see.
)100.16rejectedtitlesentences49unregisterednew words8i6sentencestranslatedafter thenew wordregistration38untranslatablesentences afterthe wordregistrationiii001-~2000 107.54 39 567 23 162001~3000 115.4 29 479 14 15Computer used is M200 (one of the biggest computers in Japan).252 M. NAGAO et alWith 3000 titles from INSPEC the ~ejected were only 42 titles (1.4%).
Many of therejected titles had the structures which the system can not accept, such as normalsentential structures, and qhestion forms.
The system can only accept the nounphrases without any embedded sentential structures by relative pronouns.Among the translated titles, about 5% were wrong or ununderstandable.
Many ofthese errors came from the wrong parsing of conjunctive phrases.
Some examples ofthe translation are shown in Table 5.
For some other databases in English thecorrect translation rate was about 80%.
This rate depends heavily on the diction-ary contents.i0.
CONCLUSIONThe translation system is now being used on trial basis at Tukuba Research Informa-tion Processing System (RIPS) of the Agency of Industrial Science and Technology.The titles, keywords, and some other journal information of INSPEC database aretranslated into Japanese, and a new database in Japanese language is created.Retrieval can be done by Japanese language by using Chinese characters and Kanaletters to this database of INSPEC Japanese version.The system seems to be practically usable, and the program is being transferred toa few other database centers for their use in the conversion of English databaseinto Japanese database.Table 5.
Example of English Japanese translation.THERMOHYDRAULIC ANALYSIS OF GAS-COOLED ROD ASSEMBLIES IN NUCLEARREACTORSBEHAVIOR OF DRAG DISC TURBINE TRANSDUCERS IN STEADY-STATE TWO-PHASEFLOWVOID FRACTION CORRELATION OF TWO-PHASE FLOW OF LIQUID METALS IN TUBESCOMPARISON OF THE ORDER OF APPROXIMATION IN SEVERAL SPATIAL DIFFERENCESCHEMES FOR THE DISCRETE-ORDINATES TRANSPORT EQUATION IN ONE-DIMENSIONAL PLANE GEOMETRYGENERALIZED QUASI -STATIC METHOD FOR NUCLEAR REACTOR SPACE-TIMEKINETICS~ ~ ~ - - ~ ~SEMICLASSICAL CONVERGENT CALCULATIONS FOR THE ELECTRON- IMPACTBROADENING AND SHIFT OF SOME LINES OF NEUTRAL HELIUM IN A HOT PLASMATRANSITION PROBABIL IT IES AND THEIR ACCURACYTHEORY OF RESONANCE-RADIAT ION PRESSUREEXCHANGED MOMENTUM BETWEEN A SURFACE WAVE AND ATOMS
