COLING 82, 3".
Horec?
'~ (ed.
)North-Holland Publizhing Company?
Academia, 1982COGNIT IVE MODELS FOR COMPUTER VIS IONG.Adorni  A .Bocca la t te  M.Di ManzoINSTITUTE of ELECTROTECHNICSUNIVERSITY  of GENOAGENOA, ITALYThis paper is focused on the relations existing between language andvision.
Its goal is to discuss how linguistic informations about ob-jects,shapes,positions and spatial relations with other objects canbe integrated into a cognitive model tailored to spatial inferencingoperations.INTRODUCTIONA common approach to the prob lem of scenes in terpretat ion  is to gen-erate hypothes is  about the pos i t ion  and size of  ob jects  and t ry  touse these expectat ions  to guide the search for p icture  areas wh ichexhib i t  the expected features 14,8,15\[.
But where this expectat ioncame from?
If a robot operates  in a known envi ronment ,expectat ions  canbe se l f -generated  on the bas is  of  bu i l t - in  knowledge and prev ious lyexper ienced situat ions.
Another  very  common source of in format ions  canbe some k ind of external  input, o f ten based on natura l  language commu-nicat ion.
A p iece of conversat ion  as " look for the penc i l " , "where?"
,"on the table" conveys a lot of in format ions  about the presence of  areference object  (table) and the character i s t i cs  of  a surface (top oftable) wh ich  must  be located in order  to restr ict  the search for thetarget object  (pencil).
To take advantage of these l inguist ic  infor-mat ion  sources we must  be able to extract  f rom a qua l i tat ive  expres-sion like "on the table" all those quant i tat ive  const ra ints  wh ich  arerelevant from a geometr ic  mode l l ing  point  of  v iew 121.
These problemscould seem much more re lated to the generat ion  of v isual  analog repre-sentat ions than to the unders tand ing  of a scene; but  what  does it meanexact ly  to "understand" a scene?
When we analyze a scene, we use a I~of not geometr ic  knowledge;  we are not surpr ised to f ind smoken ciga-rettes into an ashtray, and a g lance is enaugh to c lass i fy  them, butwe could have some troubles  to recognize that it conta ins  a companyof goldf ishes,  and this surely  not only because of geometr ic  con-straints!
Therefore the process ing  of v isual  knowledge must be basedon cogni t ive models  that are able to handle  d i f ferent  k inds and sourcesof informations,  and in this sense we feel that there is not a c lear?
cut between scene analys is  and scene generat ion  114,161.In the following we wil l  deal main ly  w i th  the representat ion  of objectsand the fo rmal i zat ion  of spat ia l  re lat ionships,  t ry ing to point  outhow l inguist ic  in format ions  can be re lated to v isual  ones.
* Work supported by Italian National Research Council under grant 80.01142.07G.
ADORNI, A. BOCCALATTE and M. 19I MANZOOBJECT DESCRIPT ION AND SPACE MODELL INGThe knowledge of the structure of an object is often int imately relat-ed to our capabi l i ty  of understand ing the meaning of a spatial relat~n-ship; fop instance, the meaning of the sentence "the cat is under thecar" is clear, even if it may depend on the state of the car, movingor parked; on the contrary, the sentence "the cat is under the wal l"is not clear, unless the wall  is crashed or it has a very par t icu larshape.
Every object model l ing  technique must deal at least with thefo l lowing issues 16,7\[ :l .Objeot must be descr ibed at several levels of deta i l .To  understandthe sentence "put the chair  near the table" only a rough def in i t ionof chair  and table d imensions can be suf f ic ient ,whi le  to build a mod-el of "a man s i t t ing on a chair" a more sophis t icated knowledge a-baut the structure of a chair  and a man is requested.2.The ar t icu lat ion  of movable object parts must be proper ly  described.The sentences"open the door" and "open the drawer" have d i f ferentgeometr ic  meanings  because the movements  of doors and drawers usual-ly obey d i f ferent  rules.3 .Character is t ic  features of objects must be po inted out .0f ten thesefeatures are free sur faces ,as  the top of a table , in  canonical  posi -tions.
The recogni t ion of a feature al lows the generat ion of hypoth-esis about the presence of an object.4.Typical  re lat ions between objects must be descr ibed .When we look fora penci l  we do not start ana lyz ing a wal l  or a w indow,but  we look atf irst foP a table or some other piece of furn i ture in which or onwhich it is reasonable to f ind a pencil .0ur conceptual  def in i t ion language al low the def in i t ion of l ines,suP-face and sol id objects.
Sol id objects are descr ibed by means of GENER-ALIZED CONES 19,101,at several  levels of deta i l .Cones  can be intercon-nected by means of f ixed or movable po in ts ,w i th  arb i t rary  constra intson rotat ions and shift ing.
Speci f ic  jo int ing e lements  are def ined toproper ly  descr ibe the surface of an ar t i cu la ted  object ;so we can cor-rect ly answer to the question: "is the fly on the snake?"
indipenden~yof how the snake is actual ly  co i led.More detai ls  can he found in Ill.From a computat iona l  point  of v iew,the use of a system of coord inatedaxes represent  a very natural  way to descr ibe the pos i t ion  of an object.If we are able to t ransform l inguist ic  re lat ions into quantitat ive geo-metr ica l  ones,the well  knows methodo log ies  of anal~t ical  geometry  canbe used as a s imple ,genera l  purpose set of in ferenc ing ru les.Hence thegoal of descr ib ing objects and spatial  re lat ions by means a simple,nonredundant n-tuple of coord inated axes is very appeal ing.
Unfor tunate lyit seems quite far from the psycho logy  of language 121.Therefore we associate a redundant FRAME OF REFERENCE (FOR) to everyob ject ,cons is t ing  of :- an ax is ,Z ,hav ing  d i rect ion of the "maOor" axis of the coDe.Two pointsaPe spec i f ied on it,Zmi n and Zmax,COrrespond ing  to the extremit iesof this major  axis;- a point  0,on the Z ax is ,which is the or ig in of the frame;- an ax is ,X ,or thogonal  to Z,that speci f ies  a further pr iv i leged direc-t ion of the ob ject ; th is  axis is def in ib!e only for some objects(eg.COGNITIVE MODELS FOR COMPUTER VISIONa man) in which a front and a back can be dist inguished.
Objects f(rwhich the X axis is def inable are to be cal led CLASS 1 objects;those for which the X. axis is not def inable (eg.
a pole) are to becal led CLASS 2 objects;an ax is ,Y ,or thogonal  to X and Z.The Y axis is obv ious ly  not defina-ble for class 2 objects;a radial coordinate ~ whose or ig in is at O;the coord inates ~ and ~ speci f ied on the X-Y plane;a curv i l inear  coordinate t or ig inat ing at point O.The use of cones s impl i f ies  the FOR;it  al lows a homogeneous represen-tation of an object shape and of its spatial re lat ions with the exter-nal wor ld ; i t  proves par t icu lar ly  useful  in s i tuat ions like "the bal lis inside the box".SPATIAL RELATIONS BETWEEN OBJECTSLet's now analyze some spatial  re lat ions between ob jects , in  order todiscuss how they can be t rans lated in terms of geometr ica l  primitives.Spatial  re lat ions involv ing the Z axis genera l ly  use a "major" axisperpendicu lar  to the earth surface;th is  is the onl~ absolute referenceused in language perhaps because the concept of "high" and "low" isd i rect ly  re lated to the line of act ion of the force of gravity.
There-fore the sentence "the object A is above the obOect B" can be concep-tual ized as :// B P -po in t~CQNE(A) ,Q-po in t~ CONE(B) : X(P)=X(Q) ,Y(P)=Y(Q) ,Z (P )~ Z(Q) I FOR does not require further spec i f i cat ion  //Note that we can state condit ions only for pairs  of points  whose hor-izontal pro ject ions  are the same.
In fact, even the"pure" meaning of"above" is much more const ra in ing 14,131,this re lat ionship  is used ina number of "impure" meanings , in  which we cannot say that the horizon-tal pro ject ion of A is included in the hor izontal  pro ject ion  of B(Fig.la), or Z (P )~Z(0)  for any pair  or points P~ C0NE(A) and QeCONE(B)(Fig.lb).The prepos i t ion  "on" is often synonymous of "above",but  in some casesit can mean "below", as in "on the cei l ing", or involve hor izonta l  re-lat ions as in "the lamp is on the wa l l " .Usua l ly  "A on B" requires Bto support A against the act ion of grav i ty ,by means of some kind ofphysical  contact.
Hence,the conceptua l i zat ion  of "a man on a chair" isthe same as "a man above a cha~r~'~plus an assert ion about physicalcontact and Support ing act ion :// ~ P -po in t~ CONE(MAN) ,Q-po in t~CONE(CHAIR)  : X(P)=X(Q),Y (P )=Y(Q) ,Z(P )~Z(Q)  I CONE(CHAIR) appl i~sa force to theCONE(MAN) I FOR does not require further spec i f i cat ion  //Hor izontal  re lat ions ar~ much more ambigous.
Somet imes FOR is expl~itystated,as in " looking at the church,the post off ice is on your  right";otherwise a default  assumpt ion is to use FOR assoc iated with the speak_er or the l istener.If we cons ider  the sentence "the object A is beh ind the object B" , twointerpretat ions  are poss ib le :a) FOR is the n- tup le  assoc iated with the object B;10 G. ADORNI, A. BOCCALATTE and M. DI MANZOb) FOR is external  to both objects A and B.Case a can be assumed only if B is a class 1 object ;case b is alwaysassumed when B is a class 2 object ,but  it is not usual even when B isa class 1 object.
In the ease a the previous sentence is conceptualizedas fo l lows :// ~ P -po in t~CONE(A) ,Q-po in t~ CONE(B) : Y (P )=Y(Q) ,X(P )~ X(Q) IFOR assoc iated with CONE(B) (ie.
FORcCONE(B)  //This definit ion and the next one al lowto handle situations as thoseshownin  F~.2a-b ; the s i tuat ion of Fig.2c does not represent  a proper  use of "be-h ind" ; i f  such a prepos i t ion  is used,more inferencing capabi l i t ies  areneeded.
In the case b the previous sentence means that B is (partially)h id ing A to an observer ,who can be assumed,to be one of the actors inthe story;hence the conceptual  representat ion is :// ~ P -po in te  CONE(A) ,Q-po in t~CONE(B)  : Y (P )=Y(Q) ,X(P )> X(Q)IX (P ) ,X (Q) ?~ ,Y (P ) ,Y (Q)~@ I FORaK-po in t  ~ (CONE(A) or CONE(B)) / /a)Y E- \ ]  bY - -?.,y--?x I b)FIG.
2 F IG.
1xXLet's now to cons ider  re lat ions as "on the edge of" ,"on the su~faoe of;'"in the middle of" and so on.
For every point P on the surface of thecone which descr ibes  the object A, i ts  poss ib le to f ind the correspon-ding c ross -sect ion , that  is character ized by a value Z of the coordi -nate along the cone axis.
The boundary  of this sect ion is descr ibed bya radial coord inate ~((~,~.
).Therefore the sentence "the pen is in themiddle of the table" can be conceptua l i zed  as fo l lows ,assuming as ref-erence the cross sect ion of the table cone which corresponds to thetable top :// 3 P -po in tm CONE(PEN) ,Q-point eCONE(TABLE)  : &(~,Z)m~,Z(P)=Z (Q) I CONE(TABLE) a~l ies  a force to the CONE(PEN) Imax FOR c C ONE ( TABLE ) //Let 's conclude looking at sentences as "the house is before the bridge','"two mi les after the l ights" and so on.
In these cases spatial  relationsare referred to a path ,usua l ly  not s t ra ight .Th is  type of re lat ions canbe conceptua l i zed using a curv i l inear  coordinate t assoc iated with aCOGNITIVE MODELS FOR COMPUTER VISION IIt ra jectory  s or ig inat ing in the center  of FOR.
I f  the analyt ical  de-scr ipt ion of such a t ra jectory  is unknown,the robot wil l  be able tomake inferences only about the relat ive pos i t ions of objects along thepath;so , for  instance, f rom the sentence "the house is two mi les afterthe br idge along the ~oad t0 Florence" it is poss ib le to deduce thata man wolk ing towards F lorence wil l  meet at  f irst the br idge and thenthe house,a f ter  an evaluable time.
If more informat ions are avai lable(eg.
the path is a road and the map of the town is known) , the positionrelat ive to other FOR can be eva luated from the actual value of t, inorder to infer that "two mi les after the bridge" means exact ly  "on theright of the stat ion" .The formal descr ipt ion of "the object A is afterthe object B", is :// ~ P -po in t~ CONE(A) ,Q-po in tg  CONE(B) : Pg  s-trajectory,Q~ s-trajectory,  t(P) ~t (0 )  I s - t ra jectory  s ta r ,  from CONE(B) / /F inal ly,we should discuss how to quant i fy  all the inequal i t ies  whichresult from the prev ious ly  analyzed conceptual izat ions.
Such a quanti-f icat ion can be cons idered as a special case of spatial  inference,which unfor tunate ly  we cannot introduce here because of lack of space.An attempt to c lass i fy  inferences can be found in Ill.CONCLUSIONSThe'problem of robotic v is ion has been 0nly sketched in this paper.Even if more deta i led analys is  of some part icu lar  objects can be foundin the l i terature 13,7,10,131,v is ion is yet a substant ia l ly  open prob~lem.
A number  of basic quest ions as, for  example,~the representat ion  ofobjects with var iable shapes,or the use of knowledge about the expectedgoals of an actor to infer its future movementyand the proper l inkingof cogni t ion with image-process ing procedures ,are  sti l l  wai t ing fo rasuitable answer.
However , these topics are rece iv ing more and more at-tent ion,both because of impact that an advanced , in tegrated  v is ion-manipu lat ion  system could have on the appl icat ions of robot ics ,andbecause art i f ic ia l  inte l l igence people are aware that there is a largenumber of l inguist ic  problem that cannot be solved if this percept ioncapabi l i ty  is not achieved.The work descr ibed in this paper is part of a la rgo  pro ject ,whose goalis the development of a cognit ive background,based on conceptual  de-pendency and related concepts l l l ,121,for an integrated v i s ion -man ip~lat ion system.zI A IYF IG .
2 - c12 G. ADORNI, A. BOCCALATTE and M. DI MANZOREFERENCESI1121314Is191I lo lI l l l112\[1131ll41llSl1161Adorni,G.,Boccalatte,A.,Di Manzo,M., Object representation andspatial knowledge: an insight into the problem of men-robot com-munication, 7th.Conf.
Canadian Man-Computer Communication Society,Waterloo,Canada (june 1981).Adorni,G.,Di Manzo,M., Some considerations about a conceptual model oriented to the representation of spatial relationship(in Ital_ian), National Research Council ITD-O45,Genoa,Italy (march 1980).Agin,G.J., Vision systems for inspectation and for manipulationcontrol, J.Automatic Control Conf.,S.Francisco,CA,USA (june 1977).Hanson,A.,Riseman,E.(eds.
), Computer vision systems (AcademicPress,New York,1978).Boggess,L.C., Computational Interpret'ation of english spatialpreposition, Tech-Rep. T-75,Coordinated Science Laboratory,Univ.of Illinois (february 1979).Kuipers,B.J., Modelling spatial knowledge, 5th.
Int.J.Conf.
on A.I.,Cambridge,MA,USA (august 1977).Lehnert,W.G., Representing physical objects in memory,Res-Rep.131,Dept.
of Comp.
Sc.,Yale Univ.
(may 1978).Mackworth,A.K.,Havens,W.S., Structuring domain knowledge for vis-ual perception, 7th.
Int.J.
Conf.
on A.I.,Vancouver,Canada (au-gust 1981).Marr,D.,Nishihara,H.K., Representation and recognition of thespatial organization of 3-D shapes,Proc.Royal.Soc.Lond.B.
(1978).Nevatia,R., Computer analysis of scene of 3-D curved objects,(Birkhauser Verlag,Basel,1976).Schank,R.C.(ed.
), Conceptual information processing (North-Holland,Amsterdam,1975).Schank,R.C.,Abelson,R.P., Scripts Plans Goals and Understanding(Lawrence Erlbaum,Hillsdale,1977).Waltz,D.L., Relating images concepts and words, NFS Workshop onthe representation of 3-D objects,Univ.of Pennsylvania,Phyladel-phia (1979).Waltz,D.L.,Boggess,L.C., Visual analog representation for na~urallanguage understanding, 6th.
Int.J.Conf.
on A.I.,Tokyo,Japan(august 1979).Weymounth,T.E., Experiments in knowledge-driven interpretationof natural scene, 7th.lnt.J.Conf.
on A.I.,Vancouver,Canada (au-gust 1981).Winston,P.H.(ed.
), The psychology of computer vision (Mc GrawHill,New York,1975).
