COLING 82, J. Horeclo) (ed.
)North.Holland Publishing Company@ Aeodcm~ 1982NATURAL LANGUAGE UNDERSTANDING AND THE PERSPECTIVESOF QUESTION ANSWERINGPetr SgallDepartment of Appl ied MathematicsFaculty of Mathematics and PhysicsCharles UniversityPragueCzechoslovakiaA method of automatic answering of questions innatural language, based only on input texts anda set of rules of inference, is described.
A firstexperimental system including a grammatico-seman-tic analysis of the input texts and questions, aprocedure of inferencing, a search for appropriateanswers to individual questions and a synthesisof the answers are being implemented, mainly inthe language Q and PL/I.
The output of the ana-lysis, the underlying representations of the utter-ances of the input text, serves as a base of theknowledge representation scheme, on which theinference rules (mapping dependency trees intodependency trees\] operate.The important, though partial possibi l it ies of automatic under-standing of natural language gave rise to different kinds of experi-mental systems, ranging from sophisticated systems of machine trans-lation through various kinds of modell ing of dialogue (with robots,data bases, etc.\] to question answering.
1 From a l inguistic viewpointthe main challenge consists in attempting to transfer the burden ofthe communication between humans and computers to the latter, whoshould be able to react in an appropriate way to the user s inputtexts formulated in her or his native language, without serious re-strictions.
The necessity of thousands of human beings preparing data"for computers" (not only encoding messages, but also compil ing databases\] should be removed.This challenge constitutes one of the central tasks of modernlinguistics; an explicit descript ion of the main features of the lan-guage system, which is necessary for these purposes, must be based ona sound theoretical framework suitable for the description of grammaras well as of the l inguist ical ly patterned aspects of semantics andpragmatics.
A close cooperation of l inguistics with logic, computerscience and cognit ive science has become urgent.
This task presentsalso an effective way of checking the results of theoretical l inguis-tics in various important fields.These considerations have led the group of algebraic l inguisticsin Prague (now belonging to the department of applied mathematics,faculty of mathematics and physics, Charles University) to start work-ing on an experimental system based on the approach called TIBAQ(Text-and-~nference Based Answering of Questions).2 Its four main pro-cedures are (I\] grammatico-semantic analysisi (2\] rules of inference,(3) identif ication of a full (direct\] Qr partial answer, and (4\] syn-thesis; see the overall  scheme in Fig.
I.357358 P. SGALLinput text+LOOK-UP FORRELEVANT STATEMENTSINFERENCELOOK-UP FOR ANSWERSYNTHESIS~- ANALYSIS  m~eaningis it a quest ion?set of s tatementsset of re levantstatementsenr iched set ofre levant  statements~- answersFig.
1An overa l l  scheme of a system based on the method T IBAQ(I) The automat ic  g rammat ico -semant ic  a n a 1 y s i s3  is be-ing prepare~ in such a form that it can handle Czech and Engl ishpo ly techn ica l  texts (papers, reports,  monographs)  in their  usualshape, and also quest ions  formulated in Czech.
Thus there wi l l  be noneed for the user to "cope wi th  the needs of the computer  system".The procedure  of analys is  has the fo l lowing character i s t i c  propert iesd i s t ingu ish ing  it from a mere pars ing procedure:(i) The ana lys is  procedure  is based on a systemat ic  theoret ica laccount  of the structure of natura l  language, the funct ional  generat -ive descr ipt ion;  this l ingu is t ic  approach,  e laborated in the Praguegroup of a lgebra ic  l inguist ics ,  4 makes use of the resu l ts  of the em-p i r ica l  research carr ied out in the frame of European structural  l in-guist ics,  and also of the methodo log ica l  requ i rements  formulated byChomsky and the d i f fe rent  wings that deve loped from his school.
Theresu l t ing  l inguist ic  approach is used as a general  base ensur ing thatthe par t icu lar  pract ica l  so lut ions (in ambigu i ty  removal ,  etc.)
chos-en for a rest r ic ted area can be rep laced by more genera l ly  val id  setsof rules, whenever  it appears  as necessary  to cross the boundar ies  ofthis narrow area Ce.g.
when apply ing the method to a new kind oftexts, to a new po ly techn ica l  domain, etc.).
This is ensured thanksto the un iversa l  character  of natura l  language and to the fact thatthe l inguist ic  f ramework  (if appropr ia te ly  chosen) prov ides means foran adequate descr ip t ion  of al l  its subdomains  Ccf.
Haj i~ov~ and Sgall,198Oa).
(ii) In connect ion  wi th  this requ i rement  the analys is  procedureis des igned to t ransfer  the input  sentences from their  outer form toa d i sambiguated  notat ion  of their  meanings  <which can be ident i f iedwith their  under ly ing  structures,  in the f ramework of funct iona lLANGUAGE UNDERSTANDING AND QUESTION ANSWERING 359generative description).
The level of meaning of sentences includessuch syntactic units as Actor, Objective, Addressee and other partic-ipants or cases, Manner, Instrument, Place, Direction and other freeadverbial modifications, as well as lexical and morphological  meanings(the latter including e.g.
number, tense, modalit ies>.
This level isformulated as a l inguistic counterpart of intensional structure,whichmakes it possible to define the concept of strict synonymy of expres-sions and to ensure an algorithmic transit ion'to a postulated univer-sal formal language of intensional logic~<among the trends that start-ed with Montague, our account of meaning- stands close to that by Da-vid Lewis, though the form of formal language we prefer has much incommon with Tich~'s framework>.
The representations of the meaningsof sentences serve as the main components of knowledge representationin the semantic networks of the systems based on the method TIBAQ.They can be i l lustrated by the representation in Fig.
2.<iii> As can be seen from this representation, our approachworks with dependency trees as the form of meanings of sentences.This allows us to work with relatively simple underlying structuresin which such notions as "head" and "modifier", or "noun" phrase vs."verb" phrase, as well as the relations described by Fi l lmore as casesfind an economical treatment.<iv> Not only the roles of the elements Of syntactic relations,but also the topic-focus art iculation of sentences finds its properplace in the representations yielded by this procedure of analysis.Also the whole pragmatical ly based interplay of topic, fccus, contex-tual boundness and communicative dynamism, as combined with the recur-sive properties of sentence structure can in principle be rendered inthe chosen form of representations of the meanings of sentences.
6Analysis of written texts does not al low for a complete identif icationof all the items relevant for the topic-focus articulation, and thepresent form of our algorithms gives results which are not fully re-liable, but the errors appear to be neither too numerous nor too gravefor the given purpose.
The main rules consiat in understanding theparts of a sentence standing to the left of the finite verb as belong-ing to the topic, while the verb itself <if it is not  semantical lyvoid, as the copula, or become, carry out, etc.)
and the elementsfollowing it are c lassed as belonging to the focus in the Czech poly-techpical texts.
7 Such a treatment appears as sufficient for ensuringthat those cases in which the topic-focus art iculation is semantical lyrelevant will be handled appropriately.
This concerns the relativescopes of quantif iers in such sentences as Every car has severalwheel_______ss and the "holistic ~ understanding of the topic e.g.
in Smokin~is dangerous, as well as Kuno s "exhaustive listing" and the differencebetween thetic and categorical judgements; even more important is therelevance of the boundary between topic and focus for the determina-tion of the scope Qf negation, and thus also for the identif icationof presupposit ions in some cases: Many ar rowsd~dn' t  hit the targetdoes not imply that the target wasn-t hit by many arrows, and Theking of France didn't come to COLING 82 does not presuppose th~-~x-istence of a king of France.
The relevance of topic and focus fornatura l  lanuuage understandinq is most clearly recognized in connect-.i on  with the assignment of reference to definite noun phrases <andother expressions>.Cv~ The procedure of analysis provides also for a treatmentof the interconnections between the individual assertions <which areStored in the shape of the meanings of sentences).
This is done bymeans of two main devices: first, in the representation of each lex-ical meaning in the lexicon there is an indication of the relations360 P. SGALLof synonymy and hyponymy (subordinat ion,  su \ [erord inat ion> of the givenitem to others, and also semant ic  features are used (for a part ia lmodel l ing  of the object  domain pert inent  to the treated area of poly-technical  texts>; 8 second, the re lat ion between an object  and the oc-currences of express ions  re fer r ing  to it in the texts is handled bymeans of a reg ister  or concordance,  supply ing addresses  of all theoccurrences of a g iven unit  in the whole  set of knowledge represen-tation.After  hav ing examined d i f fe rent  means of implementat ion  of theanalys is  procedure,  esp.
Kay's parser,  Wood's  ATN, the Grenoble  systemand others, we dec ided that among the systems actua l ly  ava i lab le  tous the f ramework e laborated in the T.A.U.M.
group, based on Colme-rauer s Q-systems,  can serve best  our aims.
Thanks to the Canad ianco l leagues we got the poss ib i l i ty  to implement  Q-systems <through For-tran> on such computers  as IBM 360, EC 1040 (Robotron>and others (bymeans of a procedure  given at our d isposa l  by B. Thouin  who togetherwi th R .K i t t redge int roduced us to the int r icac ies  of their  systems>.It appeared that Q-systems are a means f lex ib le  enough to be used forour purposes,  in spite of the fact that several  major  d i f ferences  canbe found between the or ig ina l  goals Q-systems were des igned for andbetween our goals: after a couple of years of exper ience our program-mers <first  of al l  Z .K i rschner  and K.Ol iva> are able to use Q-systemsfor a dependency-based  analys is  a t tempt ing  to penetrate  into the under-ly ing st ructures of sentences <which is necessary  also for t rans lat ionbetween typo log ica l ly  d i f fe rent  languages>.
The trees Q-systems weredes igned to operate on can be read i ly  interpreted as standing c loseto our dependency  trees <though instead of each of the nodes exempl i -f ied in F ig.2 it is necessary  to have a whole  subtree composed of sev-eral nodes, s ince Q- language works only wi th e lementary  node labels>.Moreover,  it became also clear that Q-systems are a sui table means tohandle in f lect iona l  languages exh ib i t ing  compl icated  systems of mor-phemic ambigu i ty  and synonymy, 9 as wel l  as the so-ca l led free wordorder <which is not free at all, but determined by the top ic - focusart icu lat ion,  esp.
by communicat ive  dynamism, in a much more stra ight-forward way than is the case in Engl ish>.
It is not necessary  to workwith ind iv idual  rules for the d i f ferent  permutat ions  of the e lementsof a sentence, s ince an approach work ing - roughly  speaking - with ane lementary  dependency  tree for every tentat ive  c lause <a f inite verband its ne ighbours  on both sides> is possible,  inc luding the use ofl ist var iab les  for the i r re levant  parts of the tree.
I0The strong combinator ic  power of Q-systems,  as well  as its re-lat ive t ransparency,  made it poss ib le  to formulate  a procedure  ofanalysis ,  which is by far not yet complete,  but which  accounts  a l readyfor hundreds of k inds of phenomena from the syntax of Czech.
These in-c lude a re la t ive ly  complete analys is  of the st ructure  of noun phrases,ach ieved by means of check ing the agreement  of an ad ject ive  with itsgovern ing noun, and pre fer r ing  a noun in the geni t ive case to be under-stood as an adjunct  of an immediate ly  preced ing noun, whenever  thisis possible,  whi le  wi th the other ob l ique cases <simple and prepos i -t ional> there is a complex scale, e laborated by J .Panevov~, dec id ingwhether  the given noun funct ions as an ad junct  of this or that preced-ing noun or as a modi f ier  of the verb <the indices of the given nouns,verbs and morphemic  means are used to determine the speci f ic  dependencyre lat ion>.
The par t ic ipants  mod i fy ing  the verb are ident i f ied  with thehelp of lexical  data concern ing  va lency  <obl igatory and opt ional  mod-i f icat ions and their  usual  morphemic  forms>.
~fe ment ioned a l rea Jy  theident i f~cat fon  of topic and focus, ach ieved prec ise ly  on the base ofthe "fzee" word order.LANGUAGE'UNDERSTANDING AND QUESTION ANSWERING 361Thus it seems that a syntact ico-semant ic  analys is  of the textsof a l imited po lytechn ica l  domain (we started with texts on operat ion-al ampl i f iers> is feasible.
In other words, it is poss ib le  to obta inin an automat ic  way an image of the input text hav ing the shape of sset of d i sambiguated  under ly ing representat ions  of sentences <cal ledstatements in the seque l>, in terconnected by means of po inters  basedon  the lexicon and on the paradigmat ic  re lat ions reg is tered there(hyponymy, etc.>.Whenever  a user 's  input quest ion is analyzed <by the same anal-ysis procedure as the statements are>, the system goes over to otherprocedures,  which operate on the set of statements gained by thegrammat ico-semant ic  analysis.
(2} F i rst  of all, the whole set of statements is searched through(by means of the concordance we ment ioned in (v> above>, to ident i fythe subset of statements poss ib ly  re levant  to the given quest ion <inthe f irst exper iments,  a non-empty intersect ion of the two sets ofautosemant ic  lexical  units being treated as a suf f ic ient  condi t ionfor these statements>.
The rules of i n f e r e n c e , which arethen appl ied to this rest r ic ted set of statements,  are descr ibed (to-gether with the procedure of ident i f icat ion of appropr ia te  answers>in the short communicat ion  presented by P .
J i rk~ and J .Haj i~,  who arethe main authors of the respect ive  programmes;  we can l imit ourse lveshere to a few i l lust rat ions  of these two procedures.
In the rules ofinference such modi f i cat ions  of the statements are inc luded as thede let ion of an adverbia l  unde~ certa in condi t ions  <e.g.
from "It isposs ib le  to mainta in  X wi thout  employ ing Y" it fe l lows that it is pos-sible to mainta in  X), or several  shifts of verbal  modal i t ies ,  a shiftof Actor  and Instrument in some cases, and also a con juct ion or a sim-ilar connect ion  of two statements;  e.g.
"X is a dev ice with the prop-erty Y" and "X can be appl ied to handle Z" are combined to yiel  d "Xis a device that has the property  Y and can be appl ied to handle Z".In the f irst exper iment  the inference rules are appl ied onlydur ing the handl ing of a g iven quest ion.
In case a procedure check ingall newly analyzed statements fo rcompat ib i l i ty  with the a l ready giv-en pieces of in format ion is formulated at a later stage of the re-search, then it wi l l  a lso be necessary  to decide which inference rulesshould be appl ied a l ready dur ing that procedure <i.e.
independent lyon quest ions asked by the user>, and which types of consequences  shouldbe inc luded permanent ly  in the stock of data.
It wi l l  also be necesnsary, in further exper iments,  to use heur ist ic  s t rategies  for thechoice of the inference rules to be appl ied at a g iven time point.
Thegrowth of the enr iched set of statements must be contro l led  and lim-ited.
(3) The enr iched set of re levant  statements is then searchedthrough by means of a procedure of the choice of an a n s w e r .
Therepresentat ion  of the quest ion is compared wSth the statements  belong-ing to the enr iched set, with three kinds of poss ib le  results:(a) the Statement is found to give a full  answer to the quest ion,if the two representat ions  d i f fer  only in that the answer includesspeci f ic  lexical  units (perhaps a whole subtree> in the pos i t ion  oc-cupied by the quest ion word in the quest ion <this pos i t ion being shift-ed to the end of our representat ion  of the quest ion>;(b) the statement contains in format ion which probably  can be o9interest  to the user, though either some of the parts of the two re-presentat ions  are not identical ,  e.g.
these representat ions  d i f fer  inwhat concerns hyponymy, or in semant ica l ly  re levant  aspeCts of theirword order (com/nunicative dynamism>;362 P. SGALL<c) the statement is not relevant for the given question, ifeither the sequence of edges of the tree going from the root to thequestion word does not have a corresponding counterpart there, or ifthe two representations are radically different in their other parts.In case (b) the representation of the answer is assigned theprefix "I <only> know that ..." to point out that the answer is notcomplete.<43-An answer undergoes then the procedure of s y n t h e s i s,transducing the underlying representation to the graphemic shape ofa Czech sentence.
This procedure has been implemented in PL/I on thecomputer EC 1040 and is being checked within a rather broad systemof random generation of Czech sentences, which encompasses severalhundreds o f  rules covering most different grammatical phenomena ofall levels (cf.
Panevov~'s paper presented at this conference).The system prepared for the first experiments with the methodTIBAQ is l imited in several respects.
An enrichment concerning thelinguistic aspects <broadening of the lexicon, inclusion of yes/noquestions> does not seem to be too difficult, since the grammaticalpatterning has already been included in the algorithms to a ratherlarge extent.
Thus the two main problems that have to be solved inadapting the system to handle open texts from a chosen branch of pol-ytechnics or science in an appropriate way consist in(i) the relation of instantiation <or of different objectsbearing tha same lexical denomination), i.e.
of the assignment ofreference to definite noun phrasesand other expressions has to besolved (in the texts processed in the first experiments only generalconcepts are present, so that up to now this step was not necessary);at least three kinds of means should be used here, namely the degreesof salience of the images of individual objects in the stock of know-ledge shared by the speaker and the hearer (see Haji~ov~ and Vrbov~,this volume, about preparatory studies in this direction), further anevaluation of the known tendency to keep the topic of an utterance inits function also in the next utterance of a connected text, and,thirdly, rules concerning the role of factual konwledge in the deter-mination of reference; this last point, which goes beyond the lin-guistic structuring, is probably restricted to a rather narrow domainin wel l - formulated technical t@xts;(ii) an enlargement of the rules of inference <from about thirtythat were already formulated to hundreds of them); it may be necessaryto add rules of new shapes and to have a procedure for checking whateffect a specific rule of inference will have in connection with theindividual lexical and grammatical phenomena; in this respect onlythe first steps have been done in the empirical research, so thatwhen enriching the lexicon we may face new problems of checking allthe already formulated rules Of inference.
Only when more experiencein these new fields in gained will  it be possible to formulate regularpatterns and general procedures which could be adequate for these newareas of artif icial intell igence.
Such an inquiry certainly belongsto most promising directions leading to a deeper insight into the re-lationships between communication and cognition.FOOTNOTES:1 We do not have in mind here the systems including only anelementary or marginal l inguistic equipment, though some of them canwell serve the purposes of text information retrieval (cf.
e.g.
themethod MOSAIC, intended for automatic indexing and for extracting,LANGUAGE UNDERSTANDING AND QUESTION ANSWERING 363prepared by Z. Xirschner in the Prague group>, or of natural languagefront-end contact with data bases.
Systems belonging to the domain ofartif icial intel l igence and serving for man-machine communication innatural language need a much more complete linguistic elaboration.This concerns the systems intended for open set~ of instructions fora robot and for a dialogue with it (Winograd's SHRDLU>, with whichthe robot's reactions can serve as a criterion for checking whetherthe input was "understood" by the system.
The investigations Of KRLby Bobrow, Winograd, Kay and others, the task oriented dialogue sys-tem prepared at SRI <Robinson, Hendrix, Hobbs, Grosz and others>, aswell as e.g.
the models of dialogues constructed by the group ofW.
yon Hahn in Hamburg may be classed with the systems of naturallanguage understanding.
However, these systems (and also those design-ed to analyze or generate narrative and other texts on the base ofscripts, scenarios and similarly9 differ in the level and complete-ness of the linguistic approaches underlying them.
As for machinetranslation, it is interesting that most of the l inguistical ly wellequipped systems Cthose of Vauquois and his group, of Kulagina~ ofApresjan and of T.A.U.M.> concern French.2 The first characterization of a question-answering system ofthis kind was presented at the 6th International conference on com-putational l inguistics, Ottawa; see Haji~ov~ (1976).3 A prel iminary characteristics of this procedure can be foundin Panevov~ and Sgali(1979); as for an account including il lustrat-ions of its technical aspects, see Panevov~ and Oliva (in press>.4 See Sgall et al (1969>; Haji~ov~ and Sgall (198Oa>; Sgall,Haji~ov~ and Panevov~ (in prep.>.5 Sgall, Haji~ov~ and Proch~zka (1977>; Sgall (i980>.6 For a short empirical and formal characterization of thisinterplay see Haji~ov~ and Sgall (1980b>; more details are given inSgali, Haji~ov~ and Panevov4 (in prep.>.7 In English the situation is more difficult, since even inprinted texts it is usual here that the intonation pattern of a sen-tence is marked, esp.
with adverbials of time and place followingthe intonation centre (which cannot be readily recognized by an auto-matic analysis of the written sentence>; these adverbials in such aposition belong to the topic: W e came to PRAGUE yesterday differsfrom We came to Praue YESTERDAY; see Haji~ovl and Sgall (1975;1980b>,where some"rules of thumb" for the identif ication of topic andfocus in such sentences were given.8 For our example in Fig.
2 with the lexical unit device thereare pointers to such subordinated units as operational amplif ier ,filter, bandpass filter, stopband filter, etc.
; all these units areassigned the semantic feature "device"; apply has a pointer to itssynonym use; design has a semantic feature of an action noun and apointer to its synonym ~ ,  while system is assigned a semanticfeature of "intellectual category".9 The morphemic analysis of Czech was implemented in PL/I inthe seventies, see Kr~llkov~, Weisheitelov~ and Sgall (1982).I0 Cf.
Panevov~ and Oliva (1982); a German translation ofColmerauer's definit ion of Q-systems will appear in Prague Bull.
ofMathematical Linguistics 38, 1982.364 P. SGALLREFERENCES:\[i\] Haji~ovl, E., Question and answer in l inguistics and in man-mach-ine communication, Statistical Methods in Linguistics (SMIL)(1976), No.
i, 36-46.~2\] Haji~ov~, E. and Sgall, P., Topic and focus in transformationalgrammar, Papers in Linguistics 8 <1975) 3-58.\[3\] Haji~ov~, E. and Sgall, P., Linguisti~ j meaning and knowledge re-presentation in automatic understanding of natural language,in: COLING 80 - Proceedings of the 8th Int.
Conference ok Comput-ational Linguistics (Tokio) 67-75; reprinted in P ragu~ Bull.
ofMathematical Linguistics 34 (1980a) 5-21. i\[4\] Haji~ov~, E. and Sgall, P., Dependency-based spec i f~at ion  oftopic and focus , Statistical Methods in LinguistiCs (SMIL)(198Ob), No.l-2, 93-140~\[5\] Kr~ifkov~, K., Weisheitelov~, J. and Sgall, P., Automatic morph-emic analysis of Czech, Explizite Beschreibung der Sprache undautomatische Textbearbeitung VII (P~ague, 1982).\[6\] Panevov~, J. and Sgall, p., Towards an automatic parser for Czech,Int.
Review of Slavic Linguistics 4 <1979) 433-445.\[7\] Panevov~, J. and Oliva, K., On the use of Q-language for syntacticanalysis of Czech, in: Explizite Beschreibung der Sprache und auto-matische Textbearbeitung VIII <Prague, 1982).\[8\] Sgall,P., Towards a pragmatical ly based theory of meaning, in:Searle, J.R., Kiefer, F. and Bierwisch, M.
(eds.
), Speech acttheory and pragmatics (D. Reidel, Dordrecht, 1980, 233-246).\[9\] Sgall,P., Haji~ov~,E.
and Panevov~, J., The meaning of the senten-ce in its semantic and pragmatic aspects <Academia, Prague, inprep.
).Sgall, P., Haji~ov~, E. and Proch~zka, 0., On the role of l inguist-ic semantics, Theoretical l inguistics 4 <1977) 31-59.Sgall, P., Nebesk~, L., Goral~fkov~, A. and Haji~ov~, E., A funct-ional approach to syntax in the generative description of language<American Elsevier, New York, 1969).\[lO\]\[11\]BEAMPLIFIER-b-Ag DEVICE-PredOPERATIONAL-b-Det VERSATILE-Det SPAN-DetAPPLY-b-Ag BC "CONDITION-Pat AND DESIGN-PatGE.N-b-Ag DEVICE-b-Pat GEN-b-Ag SIGNAL-Pat GEN-b-Ag SYSTEM-PatFig.
2: A TR of "Operational amplifier is a versati le device withapplications spanning signal conditioning and systems design"
