A PROCEDURE OF AN AUTOMATIC GRAPHE~E-TO-PHO~TRANSFORHATION OF GERMANSabine Koch, Wolfgang Menzel, Ingrid StarkeZentralinstitut fur Sprachwissenschaft, AdW DDR, Berlin, DDRThe automatic transformation of texts graphemicallystored to the corresponding phonemic symbols will enable thespeech synthesizer Rosy 4000 (.developed by VEB Robotron Dres~den) to extend its field of application (application in  in-formation systems, development of reading machines for theblind).
The texts for this kind of application cannot be limi~ted in any way - a fact which had to be taken into accountconcerning the methods suitable for such a procedure.
The useo f  the d_%ctionary method, that means storing the whole vocabu-lary needed together with the corresponding phonemic stringswas impossible for this purpose.The procedure presented here can shortly be characteriz~ed as a rule system.
The transformation is done on the levelof word forms not taking into consideration syntactic orsemantic criteria.An important part of the procedure is thb analysis ofthe structure of word forms.
The results of this analysisix~luence the intended high quality of the transformation toa large extent.The problem of automatically identifying the boundariesbetween elements of compounds could not be solved havi~g inmind the aim to transform unlimited texts.
As it is necessaryfor a correct phonemic transformation to know these boundar-- 158  -ies, all compounds are split by hand when the input text iss~ored.The presented procedure identifies graphemic Bubstringsin tb~ word form to be transformed on the basis of an uniquedeterministic analysis and it also check~ if the context ofthe string or the status of the system fulfil special condit-ions.
In case these tests were successful the substring willbe accepted, that means the corresponding phonemic transcript-ion as well as the stress information are added to the sub-string.
In certain cases it is possible to postpone the traus-formation to one of the following steps.The graphemic substrings are contained in the informat-ion part of the procedure together with the conditions and theresults of the transformation.
The infommation part, thatmeans the linguistic part, is strongly separated from thealgorithm.
This separation was of great advantage when work-ing out the procedure.The transformation is carried out in six stages, themost important of which are the analysis of the structure ofword forms (the prefix and suffix strategy) and the transform-ation of graphemes by a set of rules.The analysis of the structure of word forms splits theregarded word form into morphemes and marks the morphemicbound~ries on the basis of lists "containing prefixes and suf-fixes together with the corresponding phonemic realizationsand the stress information (marking of the stressed syllableor stress shifting to other syllables).
These lists also con-rain exceptions.
The exceptions are substrings of certain wordforms which are identical with an affix on the graphemic levelbut they differ in pronounciation or stress or in both ofthem.All parts of the word form which are not treated by theprefix or suffix strategy (normally the basis) are to be trams-- 159  -o-formed by transformation rules.
These are context sensitiverules which are applied from left to right.
The word form isrun trough only once.
One part of the context conditions re-sult from word structure analysis : That is the marked morphe-mic boundaries which influence the transformation of graphemlcstrings with regard to phenomena like the so-called final de-voicing and the so-called glottal stop as well as the lengthof vowels.
Classes and subclasses of graphemes and phonemes(classes of consonants, vowels, plosives, etc .
)are also usedas context conditions for an adequate transformation.The s t ra te~ of stress as the last part in the procedurefixes the main stress in the word form by tak~ulg into consider-ation the stre~s i~formatlon supplied from the other strateg-ies.
There exist three classes of prefences: the absolutestress infol~nation, the conditional stress i~formation (ifthere is no absolute stress information) and the stress in-formation without preference (if there is no conditional pre-ference information).For the r~m-~4~ unstressed word forms the main stressis fixed by stress patterns.
The native German vocabulary canbe handled by these patterns without large lists of except-ions.
Most of the exceptions are foreign words.The first strategy before these mentioned main parts ofthe procedure is a lock-up in a list contalnlz~ about 250 ofthe most  f requent  German word forms (a r t i c les ,p ronouns)  whichare  t rans formed as a whole w i thout  running through a l l  thes t ra teg ies  o f  the procedure .
This immediate t rans format ionsaves  a lo t  o f  t ime.Purthermore there  i s  a l i s t  of  about 60 homographs,which could  be t rans formed unambig ious ly  only  by the a id  ofsyntact i c  or  semant ic  c r i te r ia .
The word forms of  th i s  l i s ta re  a l so  innnediate ly t rans formed to the cor respond ing  var iants .The advantage of  th i s  method i s  that  the fo l low iz~ par ts  o f- 160  -the procedure do not  have to handle ambigu i t ies .The paper  w i l l  conta in  in fo rmat ion  concern ing  the numberand k ind of  t rans format ion  mis takes .
In  genera l  the Germanvocabu lary  can be t ransformed cor rec t ly  by regu lar i t ies  eas i -l y  to fo rmula te .
D i f f i cu l t ies  and a great  number o f  except -ions  to  the regu lar i t ies  resu l t  from fore ign  words which arevery  f requent  in  German.
The t rans format ion  o f  fo re ign  wordscannot be exc luded from the procedure because they are o f tenused in  German and sometimes they even have no German equ ive / -ent  l i ke  Ingen ieur ,  Ce l lo ,  Charta,  Chaussee e tc .- 161  -
