COLAVG 82, Z Horeclcp (ed.
)North-Holland Publishing Company?
Academia, 1982MARKEDNESS AND FREQUENCY: A COMPUTATIONAL ANALYSISHenry Ku~erafBrown UniversityProvidence, Rhode IslandU.S.A.When the markedness analysis is extended to the lexical  andgrammatical leve ls ,  the question arises whether an analogueof the markedness/frequency corre lat ion,  observed in phono-logy, also exists on these higher l ingu is t i c  levels.
Thisa r t i c le  presents evidence that in some interest ing cases,such as tense and aspect forms in English, the correlat iondoes not hold and that this fa i lu re  is due not simply tosuperf ic ia l  s ty l i s t i c  factors but rather to the inab i l i tyof the markedness hypothesis to provide an adequate frame-work for the analysis of the English verbal system.Computational ingu is t ics  provides important potential  tools for the test ing oftheoret ical  l i ngu is t i c  constructs and of the i r  power to predict actual languageuse.
The present paper fa l l s  into this general area of inquiry.
The specif icissue, which I shall deal with,  is the re lat ion of the so-called marked and un-marked categories which have been posited for d i f ferent  levels of l ingu is t i cdescription.
Greenberg (1966) considers this concept to be one of the importantnotions in the study of language universals and devotes a long essay to thissubject.
He argues that the concept of the marked and unmarked can be shown"to possess a high degree of general i ty  in that i t  is applicable to the phonolo-g ical ,  the grammatical, and the semantic aspects of language."
I t  is in par t i -cular this general i ty claim which I plan to address in my report.
A considera-t ion of these questions seems especial ly appropriate at this COLING conferencesince the theory of markedness had i ts  home in Prague.The concept of markedness originated in phonology and is most systematical lypresented in the work of Trubetzkoy (1939).
On this leve l ,  one can observe aclear and convincing correlat ion between the markedness property and the s tat i s -t ica l  facts of language use.
The unmarked phonemes, e.g.
short vowels, occurwith considerably higher frequencies than the marked ones, e.g.
long vowels, ina l l  languages where this bpposition has been investigated.
Greenberg (1966:67-69)gives data from Icelandic, Sanskrit, Czech, Hungarian, Finnish, Karok and Chirichuato demonstrate this point.
Similar s ta t i s t i ca l  relat ions can be found with refer-ence to other unmarked vs. marked oppositions, such as voiceless vs. voiced ob-struents, non-palatal ized vs. palatal ized consonants, non-nasal vs. nasal vowels,etc.
(For some s ta t i s t i ca l  data in Czech, German, and Russian, cf.
Ku~era andMonroe 1968.)
This corre lat ion between structure and language s tat i s t i cs  isimportant since i t  supports the basic notion that the markedness re la t ion ,  inref lect ing an informational economy in language coding, has the expected s tat i s -t ica l  effects.In the ear ly 1930's, the markedness re lat ion was extended, again in the work ofthe Prague school (pr imar i ly  by Jakobson 1932), to higher levels of language,spec i f i ca l ly  to the semantic analysis of the lexicon and the meaning of gramma-t ical  categories, such as case, number, person, tense and aspect.
S ign i f i cant ly ,Jakobson's in i t ia l  example of this non-phonological markedness re lat ion was a167168 14.
KUCERAlex ica l  one, the Russian words os~l 'donkey' and os~ica 'female donkey'.
"Wennich os~l sage, bestimme ich n icht ,  ob es sich um ein ~nnchen oder ein Weibchenhandelt, aber f ragt  man mich '~to osl ica?'
und ich antworte 'net,  os~l ' ,  so wirdhier das m~nnliche Geschlecht angek6ndigt - das Wort is in verengter Bedeutungangewandt."
As in the English contrast between man and woman, or l ion vs. l ioness,the crux of the issue is that the f i r s t  term, the unmarked one, has two possibleusages, the general and the speci f ic  one, while the second term, the marked one,carr ies only a s ingle value with reference to the relevant semantic concept which,in a l l  the above lex ica l  examples, is the feature \[feminine\].
I t  is because ofth is  dual function of the unmarked term that such sentences as Is th is  l ion al ion or a l ioness?
-- although perhaps somewhat unusual --  are cer~ ly  notsemantTcall~incongruous.
In his la te r  work, Jakobson (1971) provided a moreformal de f in i t ion  of the markedness re lat ion on higher language levels :  "Thegeneral meaning of a marked category states the presence of a certain (whetherpos i t ive  or negative) property A; the general meaning of the corresponding un-marked category states nothing about the presence of A, and is used ch ie f ly ,but not exc lus ive ly ,  to indicate the absence of A.
The unmarked term is alwaysthe negative of the marked term, but on the level of general meaning the opposi-t ion of the contradictor ies  may be interpreted as 'statement of A' vs. 'no state-ment of A' ,  whereas on the level of 'narrowed', nuclear meanings, we encounterthe opposit ion 'statement of A' vs. 'statement of non-A'.
"I t  is important to rea l i ze  that the markedness re la t ion ,  as given in this  de f in i -t ion ,  is a more complex one than Trubetzkoy's p r ivat ive  phonological opposit ion.This has certain interest ing consequences to which I w i l l  turn la ter  in my paper.At th is  juncture,  however, I want to consider the natural question of whetherthe corre lat ion between markedness and frequency also holds in non-phonologicalcases as, i t  might be reasonable to assume, the theory would predict .On the lex ica l  l eve l ,  the markedness/frequency corre lat ion seems to hold ratherwel l .
In representative English texts ,  such as the one-mil l ion-word Brown Corpus,the frequencies of the unmarked members of the opposit ion in such pairs as man vs.woman, l ion vs. l ioness, or__he vs. she, are from 3.5 to 5.5 times greater thanthe frequencies of the marked members of each opposit ion.
Since the unmarkedmember of such lex ica l  opposit ions does indeed have a broader semantic scope--capable of both the generic and the spec i f ic  usage-- its higher frequency ishardly surpr is ing.
Even so, the corre lat ion  is not without interest  since i tpoints out that certain re lat ions (such as homonymy, hyponymy, as well as marked-ness proper), which are present in the design of a language system, make a moreeconomical use of the avai lable formal d is t inct ions  possible.What is of par t i cu la r  interest  to us, however, is the claim of the adherents ofthe markedness analysis that the opposit ions within grammatical categories,  suchas number, person, tense or aspect, also exh ib i t  the same logical  re lat ion andthus should be analyzed within th is  framework.
The opposit ion of the s ingularnumber vs. the plural  number usually provides a ' c lass ica l '  i l l us t ra t ion  of thevarious propert ies that are supposed to support th is  analysis .
(for deta i l s ,  cf.Greenberg 1966:73).
The s ingular ,  being "unmarked", is said to have two potent ialfunctions, a general one (as in such generic usages as The beaver bui lds dams) aswell as a speci f ic  one, indicat ing ind iv idua l i ty  (as in The beaver ran under thehouse).
P lurals ,  on the other hand, are said to represent the marked member ofthe opposit ion and signal this speci f ic  plural  function only.
Arguments referr ingto form are often given to support th is  kind of markedness analysis:  in manylanguages, singulars have no overt mark while the plural  is marked by an a f f i x ,so that the markedness re lat ion appears to be ref lected formal ly in a semiologi-~ l ly  diagrammatic manne~ Several other arguments as to the corre lat ion  betweenformal and functional marking have been given; Greenberg (1966) provides a 2oodsummary.The question of whether an analogue to the frequency/markedness corre lat ion existsfor  grammatical categories was raised already in Greenberg's essay.
GreenbergMARKEDNESS AND FREQUENCY 169found the problem d i f f i cu l t ,  largely because there were very few studies avai lableto him which gave information about the frequency of grammatical categor ies.
Someexamples which Greenberg col lected showed the expected frequency d is t r ibut ions:singulars more frequent than plurals,  or a greater frequency of so-called directcases (nominative, accusative and vocative) than of oblique cases (genit ive,dative, ab lat ive,  locat ive,  instrumental, etc.)
in a number of languages.
Inother instances, however, the evidence was e i ther  inconclusive or contrary to theputative markedness analysis.
In Josselson's Russian word count (Josselson 1953),for example, the imperfective aspect of verbs (which is considered the unmarkedmember of the opposition) is s l ight ly  less frequent (46.9%) than the marked per-fect ive (53.1%).The ava i lab i l i ty  of new frequency data of grammatical categories now makes i tpossible to reopenthe question and to see whether the results can shed l ight  onthe adequacy of the markedness hypothesis in this area.
The main source for myanalysis is the one-mill ion-word Corpus of Present-day American English, assembledat Brown University in the 1960's and recently analyzed grammatically (cf.
Francisand Ku~era 1982).
This data base does constitute a representative sample ofprinted American English, consisting of 500 samples of texts,  each about 2,000words long, drawn from a var iety of sources ranging from newspapers to learnedar t ic les  and f i c t ion .
The grammatical analysis of the corpus is based on ataxonomy of 87 grammatical classes or "tags" (including six syntact ica l ly  usefulpunctuation tags), representing an expanded and refined system of word-classes,supplemented by major morphological information and some syntactic information.In some re la t ive ly  straightforward cases, our English data c lear ly  support theexpected frequency correlat ion that is consistent with the markedness analy~i.~..The prevalence of singular over plural forms in common nouns shows, in sp i t1~of some interest ing s ty l i s t i c  differences, an overal l  frequency rat io  s imi l~tothat between unmarked and marked lexical  forms, namely about 3:1.
The same istrue of those case forms which are s t i l l  formally marked in English: roughly thesame 3:1 rat io  holds for the nominative of personal pronouns ( i .e .
forms such"as ' I ,  he, she, we, they')  vs. object ive forms ( i .e .
'me, him, her, us, them').With regard to the more interest ing cases, such as tense, the s ta t i s t i ca l  evidencefrom the Brown Corpus offers both greater problems and greater insight.
Theadherents of the markedness hypothesis have often attempted to f i t  the notionof tense into the markedness framework.
Tense in some Slavic languages, forexample, has been generally analyzed into a binary opposition of the marked pastvs.
the unmarked nonpast, an analysis substantiated on the grounds that thepresent forms, too, serve a more general function than simply the loca l izat ion ofthe ac t iv i ty  as overlapping with the speech moment--such as that of the gnomicpresent, h istor ica l  present, or "programmed" future.
Greenberg (1966) assumesthe same kind of analysis for Latin and Sanskrit and presents figures which showthat the "unmarked" present in both of these languages is more frequent than the"marked" past and the future,  although the differences between the present andpast f igures, in the Sanskrit sample, are rea l ly  quite small.Let us assume, for a moment, that the past--nonpast re lat ion has some appeal as al ingu is t i c  universal and assume that in English, too, the simple present i s  un-marked and the simple past is the marked member of this opposition.
I f  one takesthe frequency figures of the ent i re Brown Corpus into account, then the past tensepredominates above the present; there are altogether 21391 occurrences of thesimple present vs. 26172 occurrences of the simple past.
The frequency data isthus the reverse of what one might have assumed under the markedness analysis.But the fact of real interest  is not this discrepancy alone but rather the factthat,  in looking at the individual genres of wr i t ing represented in the data base,and counting the present vs. past tense occurrences separately for each genrecategory, a quite id iosyncrat ic  pattern emerges, as the fol lowing table indicates.170 ~.
KU~ERADISTRIBUTION OF SIMPLE PRESENT AND PAST FORMSGenre Number of Percent of Number of Percent ofPresent Tense Occurrences Past Tense OccurrencesA.
Press: Reportage 1271 16.08 2526 31.97B.
Press: Editorial 1405 26.77 700 13.34C.
Press: Reviews 910 28.83 504 15.97D.
Religion 934 27.41 511 14.99E.
Skil ls and Hobbies 2262 34.15 617 9.31F.
Popular Lore 1973 21.19 2272 24.40G.
Belles Lettres 3302 21.96 3501 23.29H.
Miscellaneous 1034 24.18 405 9.47J.
Learned 3319 24.87 1481 I I .
I0Subtotal: Informative 16410 24.03 12517 18.33K.
General Fiction 995 13.17 3032 40.13L.
Mystery/Detective 1052 15.47 2643 38.87M.
Science Fiction 253 15.74 531 33.04N.
Adventure/Western 1065 13.17 3702 45.77P.
Romance 1206 14.65 3048 37.02R.
Humor 410 18.89 699 32.21Subtotal: Imaginative 4981 14.46 13655 39.63CORPUS 21391 20.82 26172 25.47In six of the f i fteen genre categories, the simple present is more frequent thanthe past; in nine, the opposite is true.
The s ty l i s t i c  reasons for this tensedistr ibut ion are fa i r l y  clear from the characteristics of the genres involved:the present tense prevails in the descriptive genres, while the past predominatesgreatly in what might be called the narrative genres.
Interestingly enough,this tense distr ibut ion groups al l  imaginative prose (Genres K through R) withA.
Press: Reportage, in this narrative category.
The other two newspaper genres(B.
Press: Editorial  and C. Press: Reviews), on the other hand, are grouped to-gether with the descriptive genres.The genre dependency of the present and past tense forms makes a meaningful state-ment about their  possible markedness relation and their  frequency a rather hope-less enterprise.
The same d i f f i cu l ty ,  as i t  turns out, is not l imited to thepresent/past opposition but encompasses al l  granTnatical categories, includingother tense and aspect forms, such as the perfect and the progressive.
The chi-square s tat is t ica l  test returns a highly signif icant value when calculated forthe distr ibut ion of these forms over the f i f teen genres of the corpus.
The chi-square for the perfect is 634.00, for the progressive aspect 806.70, for thesimple present 840.35 and for the simple past 12391.56.
All these figures arehighly s ignif icant,  even at the I% level of significance (at P = 0:01 for 14degrees of freedom, the c r i t i ca l  value of chi-square = 29.1).
Consequently, thenull hypothesis that the uneven distr ibut ion of grammatical forms among the genresof the corpus is due to chance has to be rejected.The apparent impossibi l i ty of determining a stable frequency of such grammaticalforms as tense and aspect in English dooms the attempts to find a correlationMARKEDNESS ANI ~ FREQUENCY 171between markedness and frequency, at least in these cases.
The question arises,however, whether such problems bear only on this s tat i s t i ca l  correlation orwhether the entire d i f f i cu l ty  is due to more fundamental causes.There are essentially two basic di f f icult ies that the markedness hypothesis facesin its analysis of grammatical categories: the f i rs t  is that i t  needs to assume,by virtue of the theory, the possibil ity of identifying some invariant element?
in the meaning of the grammatical form, similar to the invariance notion thatprevails in structuralist phonology.
This, in essence, amounts to the advocacyof isomorphy between the set of grammatical forms and the set of correspondingmeanings (often quite abstractly perceived), a claim which, in many instances,is real ist ical ly  untenable.
I f  we look at the English tense system, the problembecomes quite pronounced.
In English, the function of the individual tense formsdepends crucially on the lexical character of the verb or the structure of theverb phrase.
Taking Vendler's inf luential  c lassi f icat ion of English verha ~ con-structions as our point of departure (Vendler 1957), i t  can be shown that lesimple present exists, in English, in natural usage only for states.
Jack lovesMa_a~, Peter hates to shave, Charles knows German, The Charles Bridge spans theVltava r iver ,  are a-l-I descriptions of states.
S---o are simple present tenses-ofve--er-~---who--o-se-basic emantic function is to denote ac t iv i t ies :  such a verb asspeak, for example, requires the progressive for a present ac t iv i ty  reading:Jane is s ea~French;  i ts simple present can denote only a habit or ana~ibu-te (forms o-f--a--stat.~): Jane speaks French, i .e .
,  has the sk i l l  of speak-ing the language.
This is also the reason, of course, for the clear ac t iv i ty -state difference between such sentences as Jack is smokina and Jack smokes.Verbs and verb phrases that Vendler labeled accomplishments and achievements haveno natural use of the simple present at a l l .
Accomplishments are te l i c  verbswhich require a process to reach the intended goal, while achievements denote aninstantaneous "leap" into a new state.
Both, in their  simple English past tenseforms, correspond to the Slavic perfect~ves, denoting complete events: Peterbuilt a house, Jane bouou~hta new coat, Capek wrote many novels (accompl i~ts ) ,~yra~ed~- Jack  ~dt--t~e--pia-ne,--H~-s~fou--un-d-~_JC (achievements).N-ot-i~t-n-eTthe-r-~f these t~cas~asTes o-T-ve--r-b-s~a~ple present that wouldhave the capacity of denoting an activity overlapping with the moment of speech:Peter builds a house, Jane bu~anew coat, The tyrant dies, His wife finds herke-~,ar-ep-ossible only-ln-reportive style as des~ons  of comp~past  events.They can be used in a newspaper headline, a chapter heading, or "historicalpresent" constructions but not as descriptions of ongoing activit ies.
Note also,however, that some of the same verbs with a plural object again denote states:Peter builds houses designates Peter as a house builder.Even such a small set of examples, which could be greatly extended to otherEnglish verbal categories, such as the progressive, c learly demonstrates that thenotion of form--meaning isomorphy, which seems essential to markedness analysisof these forms, is not tenable.
The large differences in frequency that we havenoticed in the occurrences of these tense forms in the Brown Corpus are thus notonly "s ty l i s t i c "  in a superficial sense, but stylo-semantic: they occur becauseof the di f fer ing needs for the expression of states, act iv i t ies  or events, eachof which requires some verbal tense forms and blocks others.The logical relation between marked and unmarked forms, predicted by the marked-ness theory, presents another d i f f i cu l ty  for the analysis.
As I have alreadymentioned, the def init ion of markedness on the lexical and the grammatical levelis not log ica l ly  the same as the so-called privative opposition in phonology.Rather, as Lyons (1977:305) has pointed out, the concept of markedness in thelexicon and granm~ar is a special case of the relation of hyponymy.
The termhyponymy can be used as a more suitable designation for what, in logic, has beenoften discussed in terms of class inclusion.
The hypon~ny relation can be besti l lustrated on examples involving the relation of simple lexical items: sothe word rose is a hyponym of flower, for example, with flower being the172 H. KUCERAsuperordinate term of the relation.
Hyponymy is definable in terms of unilateralimplication.
So, for example, the verb waltz can be established to be a hyponymof dance by virtue of the implication: She waltzed all night ~ She danced allni__~_~_--~ut, of course, not the converse)~As Lyons also suggests, the Praguian markedness re lat ion is ,  essent ia l ly ,  aspecial case of hyponymy.
The principal difference is that the unmarked termhas two meanings, the general (which gives i t  the usual status of a superordinateterm) and the narrow or nuclear, which has a more specif ic sense, depending oncontext, and puts i t  in opposition to the marked term.
Lyons suggests that themarkedness re lat ion may d i f fe r  from the simple hyponymy re lat ion by i ts  potentialof being re f lex ive:  Is that doqadog or a bitch?
is meaningful, though ratherodd (Lyons, 1977:308)~--The logical  basis of the morphological markedness re la-t ion thus c lear ly  requires that the unmarked term must have the potential  of ex-pressing the "general" meaning.
There must therefore be at least some contextsin which the uni latera l  impl icat ion,  required by the theory, holds.
However,with reference to the English tense system, the implications from one member ofa tense opposition to another again vary in dependence on the lexical  characterof the verb.
Markedness theorists have proposed, for example, that the contrastbetween the progressive and non-progressive verbal forms i~ English be viewed asconst i tut ing a marked vs. unmarked opposition (c f .
,  for example, Kope~ny 1948).Under this analysis,  entailments from the "marked" progressives to the "un-marked" simple forms should hold.
In fact ,  however, we do get entailments fromthe past progressive to the simple past (or the present perfect) for  ac t iv i tyverbs, but not for accomplishment and achievement verbs: Jack was wa lk~ inthe park-----> Jack walked (has walked) in the p_ark, but JaTwaTwalk ing  to-thepark does not ~ i l  ~ wa-ik-ed ~ waTked-d)- to The park~ and Ma~ ~ s ~a dissertat ion does not entai l  Martha ~te~h~wr i t ten)  a d issertat ion.Thus we see again that a markedness ana lys~which  t r ies  to re late the simple andthe progressive forms of the English system in a single re lat ion of potent ia l l yre f lex ive hyponymy is bound to fa i l .In conclusion, le t  me mention an example which i l l us t ra tes  how the frequency datamay of fer  useful clues for an evaluation of theoret ical  constructs.
Czech --l i ke  other Slavic languages -- has two sets of verbs of motion, the so-calleddeterminate, e.g.
j{ t  ' to  go (on foot ) ' ,  j e t  ' to go (by veh ic le ) ' ,  and theindeterminate, e.g.
chodit ' to  go (on foot-T T, jezd i t  ' to go (by veh ic le ) ' ,  etc.In the conventional markedness analysis, the determinate verbs are consideredmarked ( for  in tegr i ty  or d i rec t iona l i ty  of the act ion),  the indeterminate un-marked.
Language s ta t i s t i cs .
ind icate ,  however, that every single one of thedeterminate verbs is more frequent than the corresponding indeterminate.
Over-a l l ,  the al legedly marked verbs are 4.38 times as frequent as the supposedly un-marked ones.
(Cf.
Jel{nek et a l .
,  1961).
A closer analysis reveals that thisra t io ,  which of course is the exact reverse of what one would expect from themarkedness re la t ion ,  ceases to be a mystery i f  one considers the semantics ofthese verbs more carefu l ly  (cf.
Ku~era 1980).
While I cannot give the complexdetai l  here, le t  me simply point out that the entailment re lat ions ,  which re-present the essence of the logical  re lat ions of markedness, never hold betweenthese verbs.
Sentences with the "marked" verbs do not entai l  the sentenceswith the "unmarked" ones under any circumstances: Bratr jde p_O_ulici 'Brotheris walking down the street '  does not entai l  Bratr c~po u l i c i  'Brother iswalking up and doyen the s t reet ' ;  Sestra je la~ra-h -y  'S ister  went (drove) toPrague' does not entai l  Sestra jezd i la  do Prahy 'S ister used to go (drive)to Prague'.
The essence of the problem, as far  as a l l  the verbs of motionare concerned, l ies  in the fact that the re lat ion between the determinate andindeterminate sets is not one of markedness, i .e .
,  of logical  inclusion, butrather one of logical  exclusion.
The determinate verbs denote an ac t iv i tyin a single d i rect ion,  the indeterminate a complex action.The evidence provided by computational nd statistical techniques, while not byMARKEDNESS AND FREQUENCY 173i t se l f  decisive, suggests the weak points of the application of the markednessframework to the analysis of grammatical categories, such as tense and aspect.A semantic reanalysis of the categories themselves then indicates that the rela-tions of these sets of forms is more complex than the invariance-oriented marked-ness hypothesis is able to accommodate and that the vagaries of the performancedata are the net result of such complexities.REFERENCES:\[I\] Francis, WoN.
and Ku~era, H., Frequency Analysis of English Usage: Lexiconand Grammar (Houghton Mi f f l in  Co., Boston, 1982).\[2\] Greenberg, J.H., Language universals, in: Sebeok, T.A.
(ed.
)., Curr~.~Trends in Linguistics 3 (Mouton, Th e Hague, 1966).\[3\] Jakobson, R., Zur Struktur des russischen Verbums, in: CharisteriaGvilelmo Mathesio (Prague, 1932).\[4\] Jakobson, R., Shifters, Verbal Categories and the Russian Verb, in:Selected Writings 2 (Mouton The Hague, 1971).\[5\] JeIYnek, J., Be~ka, J.V., and T6~itelova, M., Frekvence slov, slovnichdruhu a tvarb v ceskem jazyce (Statnfpedagogick6 nakladatelstvi ,  Prague, 1961).\[6\] Josselson, H.H., The Russian Word Count (Wayne University Press, Detroit ,1953).\[7\] Kopecny, F., Dva p~1~pe~ky k vidu a ~asu v de~tin~, Slovo a slovesnost, I0(1948) 151-158.\[8\] Ku{era, H., Markedness in Motion, in: Chvany, C.V. and Brecht, R.D.
(eds.
),Morphosyntax in Slavic (Slavica Publishers, Columbus, 1980).\[9\] Ku~era, H. and Monroe, G.K., A Comparative Quantitative Phonology ofRussian, Czech, and German (American Elsevier, New York, 1968).\[I0\] Lyons, J .
,  Semantics l (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1977).\ [ I I \ ]  Trubetzkoy, N.S., GrundzUge der Phonologie.
Travaux du Cercle L inguist i -que de Prague 7 (Prague, 1939).\[12\] Vendler, Z., Linguistics .q Philosophy J-Cornell University Press, Ithaca,1967).
