COLING82,~Ho~ck~(ed.
)No~h-Holl~ndPubli~hl~Company.OAm~mmiml~2The Transfer Phase in an English-Japanese Translation SystemJun-ichi TSUJIIDepartment of Electrical EngineeringKyoto UniversityKyotoJAPANI INTRODUCTIONWe will discuss in ~his paperseveral topics in a machine translationsystem from English to Japanese whichwas implemented by using ARIANE 78 atGETA (Groupe dSEtudes pour la Traduc-tion Automatique, Grenoble, France).The system basically follows the sameprincilpes as the other GETA~s systems.First of all, it uses the English an-alysis program in common with the othertwo systems, the systems from Englishto Bahasa, and to Chinese.
This meansthat the same interface structure ofEnglish is used for generating threedifferent languages.
One of the re-search objectives is to verify thestructure by applying it to Japanese.As GETAIs basic ideas were explained in(I) and (2) in detail, we will concen-trate here on the problems in generat-ing Japanese, especially those inTransfer Phase.Our generation process is, as inthe other GETASs systems, divided intofour independent phases, Lexical Trans-fer (Transfert Lexical - TL),Structural Transfer (Transfertstructrale - TS), Sturctural Generation(Generation Structurale GS), andMorphological Generation (GenerationMorphologlque - GM), which are sub-sequently executed in this order.
Thefirst two phases which we call"Transfer Phase" are responsible fortransferrir~ English oriented struc-tures into Japanese oriented ones, onwhich necessary opera,ions will be per-formed in the sueoeediag phases (GS and@M) to p~erate  syntactioally andmorphologically eorreot Japanese.Amom~ others, the problems oftransferring "Valance Structures" add"Tense and Aspect Expressions" are dis-cussed in detail in 2 ~ 3, not onlybecause they are important problems inTransfer Phase, but also because theseproblems show us what kinds of"semantic" processings are necessary(or unnecessary) for transferringlinguistic structures of two languagesbelonging to quite different languagefamilies such as Japanese and English.They also give us interesting insig~htsinto the roles of "semantics" innatural language processing in general.Some of them are summarized in 4.2 PROCESSING OF VALENCES2-I BASIC SCHEMESame syntactic forms in English(direct objects, prepositional phraseswith specific prepositions, etc.)
areoften expressed differently in syntac-tic forms in Japanese.
It is obviousthat there are no one-to-one correspon-dences between syntactic functions oftwo languages and therefore, transform-ing from one language to another, basedsimply on syntactic functions, is netsufficient.There are two, essentially differ-ent solutions for avoiding this dif-ficulty.
One solution is to set upintermediate "meaning n representations,through which surface forms of twolanguages are related.
This scheme hasbeen recurrently adopted, esp~ci~ly byAl-oriented researchers.
The o th~ ~ne,which we adopted here, is the schemecalled "lexical unit orientedtransfer", where many idiosyncraticphenomena specific to ind iv iduallexical units are treated by referringto the descriptions in the di-ctionaries.
In this approach, theselection of target s~rfaee foetus isper f~ largely dependlng on lexioaldeaor lp t i~  in the B i - l i~  D~-ctioeary (W) ,  without re feer i~ toM3384 J. TSUJ I Iuniversal semantic primitives or rela htions.The interface structure adopted  byGETA is called "multi-level analysistree" which is a kind of annotatedtrees where various kinds of informa-tion of several levels such as syntac-tic functions (SF), logical relation-ships (RL), morpho-syntactic categories(K) etc.
are attached to each node.Such annotation is expressed in theform of attribute-value pairs (At GETA,"attributes" such as SF, RL etc.
arecalled "variables".
We follow this con-vention in the following.
)Among the variables used at GETA,VL-i(i=1, 2 : Valences) and RL play im-portant roles in every stage of trans-lation (Analysis, Transfer andGeneration).
The whole process can beschematized as follows.
(Basic Scheme)(I) The valences of each source predi-cate are  described in analysis di-ctionary by using VL-i.
VL-i indicateswhat kind of surface syntactic form isrequired of the elementwhich fills thei-th argument of the predicate.
Supposethat the verb "reach" has the followingvalences.
(a)(b)FOR)(c)reach to NP (VLI:: TO)reach NP for NP (VLI:= N,reach for NP (VLI:= FOR)VL2:=In the AS (Analyse Syntactique), theinitial string of words is convertedinto an annotated tree strueutre by re-ferring to these lexical description(See Fig.
I).I reached ab~k fo r  him.1VCLFig.
i Result of Analysis(2) The TL replaces the source lexicalunits in the trees with correspondingtarget lexlcal units.
The target units,especially target predicates, havetheir own valences which show in whatsurface forms the i-th arguments shouldbe generated.
Because different valencestrucures such as above (a), (b) and(c) often lead to different selectionsof target equivalents, the valenceinformation is checked during thelexical transfer(See Fig.
2).
In somecases~ simple source predicates areparaphrased by composite target struc-tures as in Fig.
3.reach~- -~Lex ica l  Unitl=Tassuru| JVL I :=NI\[Lexical Unit:=Toru"~\[ JVLI :=O\[JVL2:=NO-TAME-NIFig.
2 Descriptions in BDVCL/I, Fig.
3 argo GOV arglI \ Structure toreach pp Structurefor/ ~ TransferVCLargl GOVSCL NP NobasuIar ,o /~ l  v%'ar  s l  covT oru(3) The GS and GM actualize each argu-ment in the form specified by JVL-i(See Fig.
4).VCL .JVLI:-OJ~L2 : -NO-T~-NI1VCL ~ TonlFig.
4 Actualization Of JVL-iTHE TRANSFER PHASE IN A TRANSLATION SYSTEM 385From the above scheme, though itis over-simplified in many "points, wecan see that the surface forms of thetwo languages governed by predicatesare almost directly associated witheach other by the descriptions in theBD.Furthermore, one can consider thatvalences of a predicate describe sur-face usage patterns of the predicate,and that the BD associates such usagepatterns of source predicates with dif-ferent target expressions.
BecauseGETA s multi-level analysis trees pre-serve information of various levels asmuch as possible, we can also use theinformation other than VL-i to enrichthe specifications of usage patterns.For example, the usage pattern of"take"take the initiative in --ing,can be specified by referring to VL-iof "take", morpho-syntactic category ofARG2 (gerund), the specific lexicalunit "initiative", etc., and this usagepattern as a whole will be associatedwith appropriate Japanese expressions.As such, we can transfer naturallyidiomatic, semi-idiomatic, semi-semi-idiomatic --- expressions in thesource into target ones.
This facilityis extremely important for the languagepairs like English end Japanese, wherewe can hardly expect one-to-onecorrespondence between lexical unitsand therefore, the selection of ap-propriate target units is one of themost difficult problems in the wholetranslation process.2-2 DISCUSSIONWe adopted "lexical unit orientedtransfer" or "transfer based on usagepatterns" instead of using anyintermediate meaning representations.It might be worthwhile mentioning ourattitude toward the latter approach.The meaning representation ap-proach seems very attractive, but theresearchers in this framework have en-countered great number of difficultiesin designing a complete set of semanticprimitives by which subtle differenceof meanings of all lexical units can beexpressed.
As Boitet (2) pointed out,many systems often use source lexicalunits as primitives in their re-presentation schemes, though they usecertain "universal" sets of primitiverelationships (Boitet (2) classifiedthem as "hybrid" systems).
However,even in such hybrid systems, to de-termine a universal set of primitiverelationships, deep cases for example,is  quite problematic.
Moreover, wedoubt whether such relationships arereally useful for generating targetsentences.We can hardly explain without re-ferring to the specific verbs "enter"and "go", why we say "John enters theauditorium" instead of "John entersinto auditorium", while we say "Johngoes into the auditorium".
As for deepsemantic ease, "the auditorium" playsthe same role.
The only difference isthat "enter" incorporates the meaningof "into" in its meaning but "go"doesnJt.
Without semantic decomposi-tlons of verb*s meanings, we cannot es-tablish any rules on deep cases withoutreferring to specific verbs, which candecide whether "into" is necessary ornot.
If the rules refer to specificverbs, the names of deep oases are notsignigicant because the same deep caseis differently interpreted depending onindivldual verbs.
Why don t you useARGI, ARG2 etc.
instead of AGENT, INSTetc ?The case relationships are not sopowerful in selecting translationequivalents, either.
If we don~t usesemantic primitives only by which ap-propriate target equivalents can be se-lected, we have to refer to the thesurrounding contexts where the sourceunits appear, in order to choose ap-propriate target equivalents.
Whyshould we reduce the rich structuressuch as multi-level analysis trees intopoor ones ?
We don't claim that seman-tic cases are completely useless, butonly claim that a single level struc-ture based on them is not rich enoughto select appropriate target equiva-lents and that surface level informa-tion is also useful to specify usagepatterns (or "contexts where lexicalunits appear").386 J. TSU J I I3 PROCESSING OF TENSE AND ASPECT3-I BASIC SCHEMEEnglish and Japanese have, ofcourse, their own grammatical devicesto express tense and aspect.
As for as-pect, for examle, English has basicallytwo surface forms, "Perfective" and"Progressive", and on the other hand,Japanese has the forms"PREDicate+AUXiliaries", where AUX is asequence of auxiliary verbs such as"Teiru", "Tsutsuaru", "Kake+Teiru" etc.However, we should carefully dis-tinguish between these surface forms(Grammatical Aspects) and what are re-ally expressed by them.
In the transferphase, we should select appropriateJapanese surface forms to express whatare really expressed in English.
Inorder to do this, we set up anintermediate representation level whichis deeper than surface level.
The fol-lowing five variables and their valuesare used for this purpose.I.EASP : Lexical Aspects of EnglishPredicatesNCOM : Non-Completive VerbsNMOM: Non-Momentary VerbsPMOM: Momentary VerbsNTRAN: Non-Transitory VerbsPTRAN: Transitory VerbsThe above values directlycorrespond to the five differentclasses of English predicates shown inFig.
5.-STATIVE +STATIVE/ /t~co_.~s ~O_MM PMO_.MM m"ed~.
P'r~F ig .
5 C lass i f i ca t ion  o f  Eag l i shP red icates2.ESAS?
: English Surface AspectualExpressionsPERF(Perfective Form)PROG(Progressive Form)3.
JASP : Lexical Aspects of JapaneseVerbsRES: Resultative VerbsDUR: Durative VerbsINT: Instantaneous VerbsSTATE: Statlve VerbsBy combining these four values, wecan discriminate the five differentclasses of Japanese verbs shown in Fig.6.+STATE -STATE(hear) (fail) (sing) (know) (observe)Ar-u Kur-u Kik-u Shuppant su- Okor-u(exist)  (come) ( l i s ten)  suru(leave) (occur)F ig .
6 C lass i f i ca t ion  o f  JapanesePred icates4.JSASP : Japanese Surface AspectualExpressionsGrammatical aspects in Japaneseare expressed by auxiliary verbs whichfollow the predicates.
The values ofJSASP are such auxiliaries.
Thesevalues are realized as surface au-xiliaries in the GS.
in some cases,more than one auxiliary are needed toexpress the specified DASP(see below).TSUTSUARU, KAKARU, TESHIMAU,KOTOGAARU, TEIRU, TEKURU, etc.5.DASP: Deep AspectUNCOMP: Uncompletion of ActivuCOMP: Completion of ActionSTATE: Absolute StateEXP: ExperienceTHE TRANSFER PHASE IN A TRANSLATION SYSTEM 387TDURI: Temporal Duration, includingthe reference time po in tTDUR2: Temporal Duration until thereference time pointIMF: Immediate FutureITR: Iteration of ActionTRANS: Transition of StateRES: Resultant State of ActionThe basic scheme for generatingsurface Japanese is as foilows.
(Basic Scheme)(I) ESASP (grammatical aapeet) is de-termlned in the AS.
(2) DASP is determined for the combina-tion of ESASP a~d EASP (described inthe dictionary for each English predi-cate - lexical aspect).
(3) An appropriate Japanese equivalentfor the English predicate is selected.
(4) JSASP is determined based on DASPand JASP of the selected Japanese pre-dicate.
(5) Appropriate auxiliaries with ad-equate inflections are generated in theGS and GM.The above scheme and the detailedcorrespondence among the values areillustrated in Fig.
7, and Fig.
8, re-spectively.
(Fig.
8 shows only the sub-,ortion for "progressive forms").Lex$cal Aspect Grammatical AspectSource Verb -M) Source Surface,Expression" ( -S ,  +C, .
Prosress?ve~ D e e p  Aspect o.:d:: elLexleal Aspec: .
~Target Verb( I  g)Gra=~at ieal AspectFig.
7 Basic Scheme3-2 MODIFICATIONS IN THE BASIC SCHEMEThe basic shceme can treat thefollowing sentences( Here, we will seethe examples of English progressiveforms).
(EX I) He is opening the door.Kare-ga Doa-O Ake(Akeru)-TEIRU.
(he) (door) (to open)(-s, -c) ~-- TDURI~---g-(S) 'X~- .
.~  (D, R ) ~  TEXRU\ "?
(V ,  -R )  I~~( I ,  R) ~ TSUTSUARU- - ( I ,  -R) I--(-S, +C, -M)~IMF~-- - - - - - - -~-  (S ) - - - -~  KOTO-NI-NARU~ .
~ YOU-NI-NARU\"~(D, -R)--------------- O" - ,~( I ,  R ) - -~0,  KAKARU}( I ,  - R ) ~ 0~.- (S )  ?
0Pro, .
.
.
.
iv?
( - s ,~ (+s, +T) ~- -TDURI~ (s) ~ x \~-  (v. ~ .
.
_~ o X~X ~ t TSI~SU-ARU \\-c~, -R~-__ .
J  o Xx~ ' { TEKI-TEIRU- - ( I ,  -R) ~ X'(+S, -T) ~- XASP EASP DAS___.~P JAS.___PP JSASPFig.
8 Rules for Transferring Aspects388 J. TSUJII(EX 2) The door is opening.Doa-GA Hiraki-TSUTSUARU.
(door) (to open)(EX 3) He is leaving.Kare-GA Shuppatsushi-KAKE-TElRU.
(he) (to leave)(Ex 4) He is tapping his foot.Kare-ga Ashibumishi-TEIRU.
(he) (to tap one's foot)(EX 5) He is doubting his friends.Kare-GA Tomodachi-O Utagat-TEKI-TEIRU.
(he) (friends) (to doubt)In these examples, the samegrammatical aspect in English pro-gressive - is realized in Japanese byusing different grammatical aspects,depending on lexical aspects of bothEnglish and Japanese predicates.
Notethat the same DASP (TDURI) is expressedby different auxiliaries in (EX I) and(EX 2), because "to open" of transitiveand intransitive usages correspond tothe Japanese verbs "Akeru" and"Hiraku", respectively, which have dif-ferent lexical aspects (Hiraku + TEIRUexpresses RES, which means "the door isopen").Though it seems to work well forrelatively simple sentences, the schemehas been augmented in several points,in order to treat more complicated sen-tences.
We will give Just two examplesof such sophistications below.
(I) The basic scheme only gives defaultinterpretations of DASP.
That is, theinterpretation given in Fig.
8 is ad-opted, only if there is no evidencewh ich  recommends another interpreta-tion.
Occurrences of time adverbialphrases/clauses, for example, oftenchange the interpretation.
(EX 6) He has broken a box.
(DASP:= COMP)He has broken boxes for twohours.
(DASP:= TDUR2)We currently distinguish four dif-ferent types of such phrases/clauses(frequentatlve, duratlve, momentary andnon-momeltary), and, before the de-termination of DASP, a specially de-signed subgrammar is executed toclassify the time adverbials into thesetypes.
The augumented scheme reflectsthe properties of such adverbials indetermining DASP.
Another example ofevidences which shift DASP is theoccurrence of special adverbs such as"ever", "yet", "already" etc.
(2) English to- and ing- clauses inpredicate valences are expressed bysubordinate clauses (SCL) in Japanese,and we should select appropriate sur-face aspectual forms for the SCLtswhich reflect relative time orderingsamong the events described by SCL's andthe main clauses.
(EX 7) I saw him walking in the garden..... Arui-TEIRU ....
Mi-TA.
(to walk) (to see)DASP of "he walks" is TDURI, becausethe events "I see" and "he walks" occursimultaneously.
TDURI for "Aruku(towalk)" is expressed by "TEIRU", accord-ing to the rules shown in Fig.
8.
(EX 8) I remembered walking in thegarden..... Arui-TA --- Oboe-TEIRU.
(to walk).
(to remember)DASP of "I walk" is COMP, because itprocedes in time "I remember".
(EX 9) I remember to walk in thegarden..... Aruku-null AUX-- Oboe-TEIRU.
(to walk) (to remember)DASP of "I walk" is UNCOMP, because ithas not completed yet.In order to treat above phenomena,valences of predicates taking to-and/or ing- clauses as arguments areaugumented with the specifications ofDASP of the argument clauses, and basedon these specifications, the samescheme as above selects the grammaticalaspects of the Japanese SCL.3-3 DISCUSSIONTHE TRANSFER PHASE IN A TRANSLATION SYSTEM 389We emphasize in 2 the lexicaloriented nature of Transfer Phase andclaimed that a universal set of caserelations is not so useful as oftenclaimed in literature.
On the contrary,we set up a set of "semantic" (or deep)markers for processing aspeotual ex-pressions.
Why ?First of all, we should noticehere that, although both EASP and JASPseem to describ~ the properties of thereal world actions which are denoted bythe verbs, they are just theclassifications of verbs based on theirlinguistic behaviours in each language.When we say that the Japanese verb"shinu"(to die) belongs to the class(I, R), we don~t claim that the actiondenoted by "shinu" is a momentary ac-tion and always happens in physicallynull time, but we only claim that theJapanese verb "shinu" linguisticallybehaves in a certain specific way.
Thisbecomes much clearer, when we considerthe verb "hiraku"("to open" - intransi-tive use) which also belongs to (I, R).While the verb "hiraku" behaves inJapanese as an instantaneous verb, thecorresponding English verb "to open"behaves as a non-momentary verb (NMOM).
(Note also that, though "hiraku" is aninstantaneous verb, we can express"Temporal Duration of Action" (TDURI)by using the verb in (EX 2)).
As such,the classifications given by EASP andJASP are essentially language-dependentand not universal ones.DASP, on the other hand, is some-what universal.
Within the scheme givenin 3-I, we could omit this variable bydirectly associating surface expres-sions in the BD as we did in valencetransfer.
That is, we could associateopen(transitlve, ESASP:: PROG)open(intransitive, ESASP:: PROG)Ieave(ESASP:=PROG)etc.directly withAkeru(JSASP:= TEIRU)Hiraku(JSASP:= TSUTSUARU)Shuppatsusuru(JSASP:= KAKERU,TEIRU),etc.respectively.
However, this direct as-sociation method cannot treat variouskinds of interactions illustrated in3-2 between DASP interpretation and theother linguistic expressions.
We need acertain level of representation throughwhich linguistic expressions of variousparts interact.
Without DASP, we cannotgeneralize, for example, the influenceof time adverbials on aspectualinterpretations.Though transferring aspectual ex-pressions seems to be performed withoutreferring to individual lexical units,there are several cases where we haveto refer to them.
This occurs when theverbs in the two languages have slight-ly different "meaning".
The Englishverb "to drown" can be roughly par-aphrased as "to die or kill by immer-sion in liquid" and, as we can see, themeaning essentially contains the con-cept "to die" or "to kill".
"To drown"behaves linguistically in almost samemanners as "to die".
It belongs to theverb class NMOM (completive butnon-momentary).
The progressive ex-presses form IMF (immediate future) asshown in (EX 3).
On the other hand, theJapanese translation equivalent"oboreru" denotes just the real worldprocess of one's struggling in waternot to drown, and behaves as a durativeand non-resultative verb.
Therefore,though the two sentences(a) He is drowning(b) Kare-GA Obore-TEIRU(he) (to drown)denotes almost same situations in thereal world, they describe them fromdifferent points of view, and DASP of(a) and (b) are IMF and TDURI, re-spectively.
The transfer process isillustrated in Fig.
9.
This process're -~xlca l  ~it  Crammati~1 AspectI.dro~.
l J~sur,.ce~resslo* I ....~-~(-S. ~ ,  ~ ~ - Progressive I~ (D~P of Source ~presslon)Target Lexical UnicDASP of ( ,  .............. )I - IE~resslon of TargeCF ig .
9 Ru les  re fe r r ing  toLex ica l  Un i t s390 J. TSUJHfers to the individual lexical units,"to drown" and "oboreru", and transfers"drown+IMP" into "oboreru+TDUR1- as awhole.
This shows that, even in theprocess of aspect transfer, we needlexical-unit-oriented operations.Moreover, though we talked until now asif EASP and JASP were specified foreach lexlcal unit, aspectual propertiesof predicates often change, accordingto their usages.
Therefore, they shouldbe specified for each usage pattern,?and aspect transfer should beintegrated into valence transfer in 2.4.
CONCLUSIONWe discussed in this paper mainlyabout the role of semantics in TransferPhase by taking examples from ourEnglish-Japanese translation system.The following points should be madeclear here.
(I) We can dist lnguishtwo kinds ofsemantics in natural language process-ings, that is, "semantics as meaningrepresentations" and "semantics as con-straints (or preference)", both ofwhich have their own analogues inlinguistics, Logical Formula in MG andSelectional Restriction Rules based onsemantic markers.
Our contention in 2is only that the former type of seman-tics is not so useful as often claimed.The latter could or should be includedas descriptors in multi-level analysistrees.
This is useful not only for re-ducing possible ambiguities in AnalysisPhase but also for augumentlng the de-scriptive power of usage patterns inTransfer Phase.
(2) We discussed about the utilizationof usage patterns in Transfer Phase.However, they should be used also inAnalysis Phase to reduce ambiguities.At present, only co-occurrence restric-tions between predicates and specificprepositions are expressed by VL-i andutilized in Analysis Phase, but usagepatterns of predicates here are muchmore rich, such as co-occurrence ofspecific lexical units (nouns, adverbs,etc.
), of phrases with specific seman-tic and syntactic properties etc.
Be-cause these are highly idiosyncratic.and dependent on each predicate, how wecan compromise these idiosyncratic mat-ters with general rules in AnalysisGrammar remains as one of important fu-ture problems.
(3) We intensionally avoided the dis-cussions about linguistic properties ofdeep cases.
In fact, several grammati-cal rules can be founded on deep cases.By referring to deep cases, we can for-mulate, for example, a rule which de-cides whether passive construction ispossible or not.
Deep cases in thisusage give linguistic classificationsof relationships among predicates andnoun phrases, but not those amongevents and objects in the real world.Deep eases of this type are, however,language-dependent as EASP and JASP(Rules of passivization in Japanese andEnglish are different, for example),and therefore, we cannot use them asuniversal relationships in theintermediate representations.
Moreover,even for linguistic deep cases, wethink that it might be more practicalto use the other kind Of markers suchas markers directly showing thepossibility of passivization etc.
(4) Though DASP is claimed to be uni-versal, this claim should be verifiedin future by applying it to otherlanguage pairs.
In fact, the values ofDASP reflect many properties specificto English and Japanese.
That is, weset up the values of DASP only to dis-tinguish the aspectual features (ofreal world events) which lead to dif-ferent surface aspectual forms of En-glish or Japanese.
These should be dis-tinguished in order to transfer as-pectual expressions appropriately.
Oth-er languages might express explicitlyin surface forms different aspectualfeatures of events from differnt pointsof view.
Because of this language-dependent property of DASP, we performboth the interpretation of ESASP andthe determination of JSASP in TransferPhase.REFERENCES(i) B.Vauquois(1976):Proc.
of COLINC 76,127-135(2) C.Boltet(1980):Proc.
of COLING 80,430-436
