COLING 82, Z Horeckp (ed.\]No~h-Hollatwl Pub~hing Company~.,.ut,.m~ 1982SURFACE ANALYSIS OF QUERIES DIRECTED TOWARD A DATABASELawrence J. MazlackRichard A. FeinauerUniversity of CincinnatiCincinnati, Ohio, USAA natural language interface is directed toward the database querylanguages that access machine stored data.
A pattern driventransformation mechanism supports natural language access.
A naturallanguage is mapped onto a more formal computer database language.
Ahuman-like "understanding" of the query statement is not required.
Thetransformation mechanism is separate from the target database managementsystem.
A goal is independence from both domain content and DBMSimplementation.
There is an emphasis on surface over content analysis.Two particular questions are at issue.
First, the extent to which anatural language interface to a database may operate independent of thesubject domain of the database.
Specifically~ the extent to which naturallanguage queries can be evaluated without the use of a query worlddescriptive reference system.
Second, the extent to which naturallanguage queries can be analyzed using pattern recognition techniques.I CONTEXTAs computer mass storage has become cheaper, more data has been stored incomputers.
The relationship between the stored data and access techniques hasbecome increasingly more complex.
This has resulted in the creation of very largedatabases and in the development of the powerful database management systems (DBMS)needed to access stored data.
Most existing systems use a sophisticated datamanipulation language (DML) to access the information in the database.
Theselanguages require detailed knowledge of the database's organization, the DML, andthe host computer system to be used effectively.
Computationally naive users musttransmit their requests through a highly trained database expert who can use theDMLs.
Simply put, data accessibility is limited by a communication barrier.One way to have machine stored data directly avaliable to a wider range of peopleis to permit queries formulated in a natural language.
Natural languages as dataaccess languages have several compelling advantages.
Some important ones include~.
A large number of potential computer users are unwilling or unable tolearn and use formal machine languages.2.
For at least some applications natural language provides the idealcommunications medium (Grishman and Hirshman,1978).3.
Potential users already know their natural language so little trainingin its use as a query language would be needed.4.
Natural languages are powerful tools for the expression of certaintypes of non-mathematical 5deas and concepts.5.
The immediacy and flexibility of information retrieval aresignificantly improved when end users retrieve the data themselves.If the user of computer stored data is able to access the data by using naturallanguage, the utility of machine stored data woul~ be increased.
Not only would thecasual user gain unhindered access, but an expert user could gain easier access asnew DB~S statements would not have to be learned with every system change.207208 L.J.
MAZLACK and R.A. FEINAUER2 ACTIVITY OVERVIEWAlong with the general goal of developing a natural language database interface, aparticular emphasis is on the portability of the interface.
The goal is to achieveboth domain and DBM_S portability.
By domain portability, we mean the capability touse the same natural language interface (NLI) to resolve queries against databasesconcerning different subject matter.
By DBMS portability, we mean the capabillty touse the same NLI for a variety of DBM~ implementations.In order to achieve domain portability, it is clear that it is necessary to developa system that minimizes and/or localizes the need for semantic referants.
In orderto achieve DBM~ portability, it is necessary to limit contact between the DBMSmechanism and the NLI.For the purposes of this paper, the term "syntax" will reference query surfacestructure and "semantic" will reference concernswhich are not focused at surfacestructure.
The focus of our semantic concerns are relatively narrow as the primaryconcern is with intentlonality.2.1 STRATEGYGeneral machine language processing has turned out to be difficult.
It is unclearwhether we currently have enough knowledge to develop a comprehensive machinenatural language processing capability.
Perhaps, the greatest opportunities forimmediate success lie in the solution of subset problems.
This investigationfocuses on the relatively constrained natural language requ i rements  necessary tosupport queries of a general database.
Database queries require the capability todeal with a large subject context, but have a narrow pragmatic language userequirement.
Others have sought to restrict problem complexity by trying tounderstand general statement about a limited world.2.1.1 PHILOSOPHYOur concern is with mapping of a natural language into a more formal language, notan understanding of the natural language.
Hillman (1977) identifies thas asdistinguishing between information retrieval and knowledge transfer.
Knowledgetransfer is dependent on access to knowledge representation systems capable ofproviding extensive help in gaining understanding.
In comparison, intransformational mapping, if the question is BOW MANY DOGS ARE BLACK?
a human-likeunderstanding of the nature of DOGS is not at issue, but a way of formulating adatabase query to search the stored information with regard to the colour of dogs.
!In focusing on the question of mapping from a natural language to a DML, theprimary concern is not with the enhancement of understanding of language (as withSchank, 1973,1975) but rather attempting to bridge the gap between people andmachines (as with Lehmann (1977), 0tt(1977), Berrendonner(1980) ).2.1.2 PRAGMATIC AIDSNatural language queries have three characteristics that aid their analysis: (I)the portion of a natural language's syntax that must be covered is a subset of theentire language, (2) the pragmatic use of language in queries limits theinterpretations of a statement, and (3) the analysis can be significantly guided bythe assumption that a statement is a request for data from a known database.2.1.3 PROBLEM REDUCTIONIn separating the problems of access and DBMS design, both are simplified and mademore amenable to solution.
It would seem to be much more difficult to juggle withthe problems of a natural language front end and at the same time to work ondatabase development problems.
The two problems would appear to compound eachother.SURFACE ANALYSIS OF QUERIES DIRECTED TOWARD A DATABASE 209Communication with a DBMS can be directed toward either the database structure orthe actual contents of the database.
In either case, communication flows throughthe DBMS facilities.
We only consider content directed queries.
To enhance thepossibilities of DBMS portabilty, our NLI only makes contact with the data in theDBMS through the DML of the DBMS.
Only the mapping between the final internal formof the NLI and the DML of the DBMS must be changed from DBMS to DBMS.
Theutilization of an existing database's formal query language as the targetrepresentation allows the fundamental questions of query transformation to headdressed without the problems associated with with the collateral development of aDBMS.2.2 OVERVIEW: QUERY TRANSFORMATIONAnalysis of a query is treated as a transformation problem.
The query istransformed from an informal language into a more formal language, the DML.
Thetransformation is done in two steps: (I) the query is transformed from English intoan internal representation and (2) the internal representation is transformed intoa DML.
The transformations are driven by a non-serial surface structure analysis.This analysis is supported by non-structural referants which are focused onrecognizing the intended use of words and/or word groups.The use of an internal intermediate representation of the query allows thedetermination of what is the desired information to be carried out in isolationfrom the peculiarities of the target DML.
Also, by keeping the initial analysis ofthe query independent of the specific DML, the mechanism that puts the query instandard form will not have to be changed if the system is moved to a new DBMS witha different DML.
This allows the analysis to be partitioned into two distinctphases: (a) transformation of the English query into a standard form and (b)subsequent construction of the DML query.A simplified frames (Minsky, 1975) type data structure called templates is used foruse as the target internal representation.
The analysis process includesidentification of the template which best matches the query and the filling in ofall the information needed to complete the stereotyped question.2.3 OVERVIEW: THE ANALYZERThe analyzer in the mechanism uses both syntactic and semantic information totransform the query into an internal representation.
Syntactic sources support asmuch of the analysis as is possible.
When semantic sources must be used, existingsources of semantic information are used.
This minimizes the amount of effort thatmust be expended in developing semantic referants.
After the query is in a fullynotated template representation, control of the mechanism passes to the bridgecoding which transforms the standard form representation of the query into a DML.2.4 THE BRIDGE CODEThe bridge coding transforms the query from a completed template into the DML ofthe host DBMS.
Use of the DMLs of DBMSs has several advantages that are notexploited in systems which develope their own access routines.
First, using theexisting DMLs reduces the amount of new software that must be produced.
Second,existing software such as report generators etc.
would not require modification.Lastly, the DML can continue to be used directly, without going through the naturallanguage processor, for those applications, such as updating, where the use of anatural language system may be undesireable.After the template has been converted into a DML query, control of the systempasses to the DBMS which will evaluate the query.
When the DBMS is finished theanswer and control of the system passes to a response generator.210 L.J.
MAZLACK and R.A. FEINAUER3 THE ANALYZERThe analyzer transforms an English query into a semantically equilvalent templaterepresentation.
The analyzer goes through four steps: a word role identifer, aphrase identifier, a phrase analyzer, and a template marcher.
The template marcheris used to match template fragments to a template and to integrate the fragmentsinto a single query.
This approach is similar to the method used by (Wilks,1975a)in his preference semantics theory for general natural language processing.Once the query is in a fully notated internal representation, the mechanism hasestablished exactly what information the user requires.
When this happens, thequeries can then be transformed from the standard form into the DML of the hostDBMS.
To transform the query from English into an internal representation theanalyzer has to identify in the query:I. the desired information;2. the required attributes;3. any implied or assumed information.Surface analysis of the query is used to do as much as is possible.
From theanalyzer, an understanding of the use of most of the words and word groups in thequery isderived.3.1 NON-SERIAL PROCESSINGSubstantially all formal language analysis (compilers, etc.)
procede serially(left-right or right-left).
Also, most natural language parsing schemes procede ona serial basis.
This is particularily true for natural language since Woods (1970)developed the powerful ATN concept.
This project is significantly different in thatit does not procede in a serial direction through a query.
We resolve the easiestelements first, then use these resolutions to resolve the next element.
Byresolving an easy element first, where ever it is in the query, it often makesother query element resolution easier, irregardless of where the other element maybe in serial relationship to the element resolved first.
For example, if the querywe are trying to resolve has the formA B C D Eif the easiest element to resolve is C, it would be resolved first.
Resolving C,might then make the resolution of B easy, etc.3.2 IDENTIFING THE WORD ROLEThe problem of identifying the role of a word is not a trivial one since the sameword may have a different role in d~fferent contexts.
Some preliminary work onstatistically- based identification (Mazlack,Feinauer,1980) has already beenreported.
Further to this, an identification mechanism using pattern recognitiontechniques has been developed.
Initial word role labelling is supported by the useof various dictionaries and statistical data.3.2.1 DICTIONARIES AND VOCABULARYSeveral Dictionaries are applied successively.
They are(a) core dictionaries describing:single role structural words (prepositions, conjunctions, questionWords, existance verbs, articals, quantifiers) and functional words(total, average, sum, etc.).
(b) terms appearing in the logical schema(C) Jargon(d) a general dictionaryThe dictionaries are used to provide canditate word roles.
By applying thesedictionaries, the words in a query are labelled.
The process is reductive in thatcanditate word roles are reduced in number as successive dictionaries are applied.A natural language interface which accepts a rich natural language input andreduces it to a constrained output, must reduce the variability of the words in theSURFACE ANALYSIS OF QUERIES DIRECTED TOWARD A DATABASE 211query.
How the reduction is achieved is more than a simple table lookup with andattendent vocabulary reduction.
A reduction down to a minimal set of words similarto Wilks (1975h) primatives is not required.
Of more interest is the identificationof a vocabulary which is not obviously redundant; i.e., with two words covering thesame or nearly the same subject area.
Vocabulary reduction takes place as part ofboth the word role identification and phrase recognition processes.3.2.2 STATISTICSA statistical knowledge about words in queries can contain such information as(a) the chance that a word with a certain role will appear in a given positionin a query(b) the chance that a word with a certain role will appear in a specifiedposition of a n-word pattern with the word roles in the other n-1 positions inthe pattern specified(c) the chance that a word with a certain role will appear after (or before) aspecific vocabulary wordThis information is used reductively to resolve words that had more than onecanditate role after the dictionaries are applied.3.3 PHRASES AND TEMPLATESThe method to be used to identify the phrase boundaries is a non-serlal techniquewhich uses keywords and the word roles identified by the word role identifier.
Thisanalysis is pattern driven and uses patterns developed from an extensive sample ofactual DBMS queries.Progressive recognition of the use of words and word groups leads to thedevelopment of patterns which include both syntactic and semantic groups.
Forexample, the following patterns represent query template skeletons:o<ques.
word><existance verh><desired info><verb> (<prep><reqd.
sttr.>) ~WHAT<desired info><existance verh><reqd, attr.>(<prep><reqd, attribute>) 'What happens is that the boundaries of a semantic group are delimited by syntacticunits and a limited set of semantic purposes can be assigned to particular wordgroupn in the input query.
Once the pragmatic intentionality of a group isrecognized, this group can then he further analyzed to identify the specific rolesof words and word groups within it.Once the initial analysis has been completed, phrase analysis mechanisms take overto transform the phrases into candidate template fragments.
A template fragmentcontains that information in the phrase that is needed to accurately evaluate the_query.
This includes identification of what is the desired informatlon~ attributesthe desired information must have and actions requested of the system.
After theindividual phrases have been transformed into template fragments the templatematching mechanism takes over.A pattern recognition approach selects the template that has the closest matchbetween the information needed to complete the template and the information in thetemplate fragments.
A measure of fit "goodness" is developed and used to choosebetween competing interpretations.
After the appropriate template has been selectedthe template matching mechanism completes the stereotyped query using informationtaken from the template fragments.An example of this process can be found in the authors" paper: "A Pattern DrivenAnalysis of Queries Directed Toward Existing Databases" (Mazlack~Felnauer, 1982).3.4 SEMANTIC INFORMATIONThe content of the database is not directly referenced as an information source.The logical database schema is used as a primary semantic information source212 L.J.
MAZLACK and R.A. FEINAUERbecause it already exists separate from the natural language query system and doesnot have to be created when the natural language analyzer is implemented with a newdatabase.
One of the major problems problems with many existing natural languagequery systems is that they use significant information specific to the particulardatabase they reference.
By using information sources that do not have to berecreated for each new application, the amount of effort needed for new systems isreduced.4.0 RECAPITULATIONThe rapidly improving capabilities of computer hardware combined with the rapiddecline in the cost of that hardware has created a situation where a major limitingfactor in the utility and growth of DBMS is the inability of many people to use thecomplex software packages needed to access databases.
One possible solution is thedevelopment of a natural language interface that can serve as an intermediarybetween the user and the DBMS.
This would enable users to communicate with thedatabase in their own language instead of the computers.The mechanism described maximizes surface analys~s of the query and minimizes theamount of content "understanding" needed to resolve a query.
The construction of aworld mechanism for each application Semantic information necessary to resolve aquery is derived from existing sources such as the logical schema.The research involved in completely specifying and implementing the mechanism isdirected toward two fundamental questions.
They are: (I) what is the minimum amountof "understanding" of a natural language query that is needed to generate asemantically equivalent DML query and (2) how much information about a query can bederived from surface analysis.Note: A detailed comparison of this mechanism with other systems can be found in aworking paper (Feinauer, 1981) on this mechanism.5 BIBLIOGRAPHYBarrendonner,A.,Bouche,R.,LeGuern,M.,Rouault,J.
(1980) "Pour Une MethodeD'Interaction Ponderee des Composats Morphologique et Syntaxique en AnalyseAutomatique du Francais," T.A.
Informatlons, 1980, nl, p3-28Codd,E.F.
(1974) "Seven Steps To Rendezvous With The Casual User," DATA BASEMANAGEMENT, Klimbie,J.W,, K.I.
Koffems~ (ads), North-Holland, 1974, Amsterdam,p179-200.Feinauer,R.A.
(1981)"A Proposed Natural Language Database Access Method," WorkingPaper, University of Cincinnati ,  1981Grishman,R., Hirschman,L.
(1978) "Question Answering From Natural Language MedicalDatabases," Artificial Intelligence, 1978 , v11, p25-43.Hillman,D.J.
(1977) "Model For The On-Line Management Of Knowledge Transfer,"On-Line Review, vl, nl, March, 1977, p23-30Lehmann,H.
(1977) "The USL System for Data Analysis," PROCEEDINGS OF A WORKSHOP ONNATURAL LANGUAGE FOR INTERACTION WITH DATA BASES, Rahmstorf,G.,Ferguson,M.
(eds),January, 1977Mazlack,L.J., Feinauer,R.A.
(1980) "Establishing A Basis For Mapping Natural QueryLanguage," Proc.
of The Joint British Computer Society and ACM Symposium: Research,Development In Information Retrieval, 1980, Cambridge, England.Mazlack,L.J., Feinauer,R.A.
(1982) "A Pattern Driven Analysis of Queries DirectedToward Existing Databases," European Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 1982SURFACE ANALYSIS OF QUERIES DIRECTED TOWARD A DATABASE 213Minsky,M.
(1975) "A Framework For Representing Knowledge," THE PSYCHOLOGY OFCOU~nTER VISION, Winston,P.
(ed), McGrawAHi11, 1975, New York, p211-278.Ott,N.~Zoeppritz,M.
(1977) "USL - An Experimental Information System Rased onNatural Language," NATURAL LANGUAGE RASED COMPUTER SYSTEMS, Bolc,L.
(ed), 1979Plath,W.J.
(1976) "Request: A Natural Language Question Ansv,ering System," IBM J.Research and Development, July, 1976, v20, n6, p326-335.Schank,R.
(1973) "Identification of Conceptualizations Underlying NaturalLanguage," COMPUTER MODELS OF THOUGHT AND LANGUAGE, Schank,R., Colby,M.
(eds),W.H.Freeman, 1973, San Francisco.Schank,N.
(1975) CONCEPTUAL INFORMATION PROCESSING, North-Holland, Amsterdam,American-Elseiver, 1975, New York, pi-82.Wilks,Y.
(1975a)"An Intelligent analyzer and Understander of English," CACM, May ,1975, v18, n5, p264-274.Wilks,Y; (1975b) SEVEN THESES ON ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND NATURAL LANGUAGE,ISSCO memo no.
17, 1975.Winograd,T.
(1973) "A Procedural Model of Language Understanding," COMPUTER MODELSOF THOUGHT AND LANGUAGE, Schank,N., Colby,M.
(eds), W.H.Freeman, 1973, SanFrancisco, p152-186.Woods,W.A.
(1970) "Transition Network Grammars For Natural Language Analysis,"CACM, October, 1970, v13, n10, p591-606.Woods,W.A.
(1977) "Lunar Rock In Natural English: Explorations In NaturalLanguage," LINGUISTIC STRUCTURE PROCESSING, Zampolli,A.
(ed), North-Holland, 1977,Amsterdam, p521-570.
