COLING 82, J. Horeck~ (ed.
)North.Holland Publishing Company?
Academia, 1982A MULTILAYERED APPROACHTO THE HANDLING OF WORD FORMATIONWol fgang HoeppnerResearch Unit for Information Science and Artificial IntelligenceUniversity of Hamburg, Germanisches SemrnarMi ttelweg 179D-2000 Hamburg 13Fed.
Rep. of GermanyThe treatment of word formations has until recently beena neglected topic in natural language AI research.
Thispaper proposes a multilayered approach to word formationwhich treats derivatives and compounds on several differ-ent levels of processing within a natural language dia-logue system.
Analysis and generation strategies beingdeveloped for the dialogue system HAM-ANS are described.Identification of word formations, semantic interpretation,and evaluation in the context of a dialogue are the main?
levels of analysis on which the system successively at-tempts to infer the implicit relations between word forma-tion components.
Generation of word formations is viewedas a process comparable to the generation of ellipticalutterances.I NTROI)UCT I ONAny linguistic theory has to account for word formation as a way of expressingcomplex relations, facts or situations, and nearly every theoretical approach con-tains at least suggestions as to how to handle word formation.
Not until recentlyhas word formation become a topic in natural language processing within the frame-work of artificial intelligence (cf.
FININ 1980, McDONALD 1981).It is argued here that similar attention should be paid to word formation as hasalready been paid, for example, to sentence structure.
This is justified not onlybecause such phenomena as derivatives and compounds obviously do occur in naturallanguage, but rather because natural language AI systems to a \]arge extent alreadycontain the sort of knowledge needed to understand word formation, and thereforeseem to be well suited for investigations in this field (cf.
SAMLOWSKI 1975).Having been discarded in early days of AI research as too tedious and expensive atask (CERCONE 1974) the analysis of word formation, especially compounding, seemsto be a major way to increase linguistic coverage and to reduce vocabulary errors,one of the most frequent sorts of errors in natural language systems (see?
THOMPSON 1980)Generally speaking, the trouble with word formation is that in contrast to sen-tence structure the relations between constituents are not overtly marked inword formations.
In addition, there are seldom explicit clues indicating whethera given word is lexicalized or analyzable, or how to interpret the latter ones.Furthermore, derived and compound words incorporate ambiguities on several differ-ent linguistic and cognitive levels.
Therefore, it is a challenging task fornatural language AI research to study how a system can identify, understand, andmake use of word formation.133134 W. HOEPPNERANALYSIS OF WORD FORMATION IN HAM-ANSThe approach to the handling of word formation described in this paper is part ofthe development of the natural language system HAM-ANS (Hamburg Application-Orien-ted Natural Language System).
HAM-ANS, which is based once  earl ier system HAM-RPM(see--v. HAHN et al 19~0) provides natural language access to other software sys-tems.
"While a natural language interface to a large relational data-base systemdealing with fishery data is currently being designed, the other two major appli-cation areas of HAM-ANS - a hotel-reservation system and a motion analysis systemdealing with a street crossing (see JAMESON eta \ ] .
\]980, MARBURGER eta \ ] .
198\]) -are studied and further developed in an implemented version which covers the com-plete natura\] language dialogue.
Analysis and generation of word formation hasbeen integrated into the system in the context of these two domains of discourseand the examples given b~low are taken from dialogues about these domains.The main idea in our approach is that derivatives and compounds cannot be treatedappropriately in a separable component whose output is a semantic interpretation(FININ \]980) or a paraphrase (BORGIDA 1975, McDONALD/HAYES-ROTH 1978).
Instead,the question of how, or even whether, a word formation is to be analyzed should bedecidable on different levels of processing covering the meaning of word consti-tuents, their interpretation in the context of utterances, and their interpreta-tion in situational context.It is quite a tradition in theoretical linguistics to discriminate between com-pounding and derivation as the two basic means of word formation.
It is not ourconcern here to add new arguments in favour of or against such a simple distinc-tion; rather, we use it to delimit the broad field of word formation and to indi-cate the linguistic data our approach is designed to capture.
Leaving aside thedifferentiation between Iexlcalized and analyzable words for the moment the over-all research objective is to handle those words which can be first segmented intosemantically meaningful units and then interpreted by making use of knowledgesources and the inferential capacity of a natural language AI system.A common characterization of derived words is that they are formed by combininga free morphemic part with a bound one.
The order of these morphemic parts yieldsthe discrimination between prefixation and suffixation on purely structuralgrounds.
There is, however, also a semantic difference between two types of deri-vation: It appears to be rather difficult to determine the meanings of prefixesand their semantic relation to the free morphemic part of the word in a generalway.
We will therefore exclude prefixes from our treatment of word formation with-in HAM-ANS for the time being and concentrate on derivation by means of suffixesand on composition.IDENTIFICATION OF DERIVATIVES AND COMPOUNDSIn both English and German derivatives are written as one word delimited by blanksor punctuation marks.
Compound words, in these languages are represented different-ly.
A German compound is written as one string of letters, the segmental units ofan English one are clearly indicated by a blank or a hyphen.
This orthographicdifference incorporates a difference in the problems of how to identify compoundsin both languages.
The ambiguity between English compounds and syntactic construc-tions, attribution in 'woman doctor', has to be handled within the syntactic anal-ysis (cf.
MARCUS 1980) and does not occur in German because of its graphemlc rep-resentation of compounds.
On the other hand a system analyzing German compoundshas to identify the meaningful segments as a f i r s t  subtask; several approaches inthe area of computational lingustics have dealt with the problem of ide~.~ifyingsegments in isolated compounds (cf.
v.HAHN, FISCHER 1975, SCHOTT \]978).
Th~ sys-tems rely heavily on graphemic and morphemic rules, the latter using addit ion~lexical information.
Characteristically the analysis of isolated compounds wil~ 'atbest produce more than one segmentation, as e.g.
for the word STAUBECKEN whichMULTILAYERED APPROACH TO WORD FORMATION 135should be segmented in either STAU-BECKEN (reservoir) or in STAUB-ECKEN (dusty cor-ners), but the determination of the intended meaning lies beyond the scope of theseapproaches.In the system HAM-ANS the starting point of word-formation analysis is containedin the lexical analysis component, its main task being the reduction of inflectedword forms and providing lexical information for the subsequent syntactic analy-sis.
Whenever a word is not contained in the lexicon, the system removes possibleinflectional suffixes before trying to recognize it as a derivative or a compound.Only if this attempt fails will the user be asked for information about the word.Employing the contents of the system's lexicon is certainly a simple way ~o definelexicalized formations.
This sharp distinction between lexicalized and analyzablewords, as used in the current implementation, does not do full justice to dlbserva-ble degrees of lexicalization; therefore it will yield to an improved conception.The segmentation of words not contained in the lexicon makes use of a table ofderivative suffixes, a set of graphemic restrictions and the definitions of basiclexical items stored in the lexicon.
Graphemic restrictions incorporate rules forthe reduction of vowel mutation often cooccurring with suffixation and for the de-tection of juncture morphemes.In a first step, derivative suffixes are recognized by comparing final segments ofthe word under inspection with the entries of the suffix table.
The analysis ofderivatives in HAM-ANS is to a large extent based on work done for different pur-poses in the area of computational linguistics (HOEPPNER 1980), major deviationsbeing the extensive use of a lexicon and a smaller selection of productive suf-fixes.
Apart from the literal form of the suffixes the entries of the table containinformation about gender (for nominal suffixes), part of speech of the derivativeand the basic form being derived and expressions of the system's semantic repre-sentation language SURF, which later on is integrated into the semantic representa-tion of the whole word.
The lexicon serves as a device for ascertaining that theremaining part is a lexical unit known or accessible to the system.Having ident i f ied  a der ivat ive  su f f ix  and thus determined the word to be a der iva -t i ve ,  the remaining par t ,  however, can recurs ive ly  turn  out  to be an ana lyzab lefo rmat ion ,  say a compound.
So a second step ( in  the processing o f  a nonder ivedword the f i r s t  step) is the attempt to sp l i t  the word in to  two components both ofwhich have to be u l t imate ly  t rans formable  in to  canonical  forms, fo r  example by re-moving vowel mutat ion or  ana lyz ing  a der ivated  part  in the way descr ibed above.Search in the lex icon  is performed by const ruct ing  a hypothet ica l  f i r s t  const i tuentand look ing fo r  the most s imi la r  lex icon  ent ry .
This y ie lds  the second const i tuentas the remainder 'which by consu l t ing  the lex icon  leads to a rev is ion  of  the in i -t ia l  hypothet ica l  assumption or  conf i rms i t .In principle these two steps in identifying the structure of compounds and deriva-tives should interact recursively to allow for the handling of multiple compoundingand derivation (for restrictions on multiple derivation see HOEPPNER 1980).
In HAM-ANS the analytical capacity at the moment is restricted to compounds with two partsand to singular derivation.
This limitation is not so much determined by the iden-tification process but rather by the state of elaboration of those processes whichrelate and integrate the semantic interpretation of a word formation into theknowledge already available to the system.After the system has successfully segmented an initially unknown word, the resultof the identification is a structure containing the identified parts together withthose grammatical features which in the course of further processing will guide theconstruction of a semantic interpretation and which provide grammatical informationfor the whole word.
To illustrate this resulting \]exical structure, an example forthe word 'STRASSENFEGER' (street cleaner) is given in Fig.
I, indicating also theorigin of the associated grammatical features (the features and their values aregiven here in English).136 W. HOEPPNER<constituent> <grammatical features> <knowledge sources>STRASSE part of speech: NOUN~...~_~__ ~~-- - -~.
.
-~N JUNCTURE ~ ~FEG part of speech: V E R B ~ER DERIVATIVE SUFFIX-~..~gender: masculine~ ~ ~part of speech: noun~basic form: verbFigure 1: Lexical representation of STRASSENFEGERSEMANTIC INTERPRETATION OF DERIVATIVES AND COMPOUNDSSo that the system needn't analyze an unknown word each ti;,,e i t  occurs in an utter-ance, the information gathered so far could be stored in lexical memory, as is donewith explicit information given by the user about unanalyzable words.
The goal ofword-formation analysis, however, is not completed with the segmentation of wordsand the assignment of features to their parts.
A more important step is to relatestructural knowledge about derivatives and compounds to conceptual knowledge and totransform lexical structures into semantic structures.
The logic-oriented represen-tation language SURF (see JAMESON et al 1980) is the device in HAM-ANS which ex-presses semantic relations between parts of utterances and likewise between lexic-ally analyzed words.
An interpretation process has accordingly been implementedwhich maps lexical representations of analyzed words onto expressions of SURF hav-ing the same type as that constructed by the parser for simple words of the sameclass.
For example, a compound noun is represented by a 'description' in the sameway as a simple noun in a noun phrase would leave the parser.
The only differenceis that the representation of a compound contains explicit relations between itsconstituents.
An example interpretation of the German compound STUHLBEIN (chairleg) is given in fig.
2, the letter T in the last line standing for the whole-partrelation in the system's conceptual semantic network.
(d-o: AND(lambda: xl (af-a: ISA xl BEIN))(d-o: AND(lambda: x2 (af-a: ISA x2 STUHL))(lambda: x3 (af-a: T x2 xl))))Figure 2: Semantic interpretation of STUHLBEINThe representation of the simple noun BEIN (leg) would correspond to the firstargument of the outermost conjunction, which is likewise a 'description'.Let's now take a closer look ~t the way the transformation of a lexical representa-tion into a SURF representation is achieved.
As mentioned above the table of deriv-ative suffixes includes one or more SURF~expressions for each suffix.
The expressionprovided for the suffix -ER, in STRASSENFEGER, together with a verb stem leads toa case-frame instantiation with the agent being a male person and an objective caseto be filled either by a genitive attribute or a compound constituent as in thisexample.Compounds require a more interesting transformation process to discover relationsbetween their parts.
Analyzing the lexical representation, different inferencestrategies are selected depending on the parts of speech of the constituents.
Forinstance, a compound consisting of two adjectives activates processes trying toestablish a coordination of the two concepts (e.g.
DUNKELBRAUN (dark brown)).
Thetransformation of nominal compounds applies the system's inferential capacity todetect possible links between the two concepts in the conceptual semantic network.In addition to the part-of relation the following relatlons are inspected and usedMULTILAYERED APPROACH TO WORD FORMATION 137fo r  the semantic representat ion  in SURF:- phys ica l  ob jec t  and i t s  mater ia l ,  e .g .
HOLZTISCH (wooden tab le )- proper ty  o f  an ob jec t ,  e .g .
HAARFARBE (co lour  of  ha i r )- phys ica l  ob jec t  in i t s  p re fer red  locat ion ,  e .g .
COUCHTISCH (couch tab le )- combination o f  phys ica l  ob jec ts ,  e .g .
RADIOWECKER (c lock  rad io ) .F ina l ly ,  compounds w i th  a verbal  element are transformed by t ry ing  to f i t  the re-maining const i tuents  in to  the s lo ts  o f  the verb 's  case frame.
The example STRASSEN-FEGER is represented as the ins tant ia ted  case frame o f  FEGEN ( to  sweep) w i th  thenoun STRASSE (s t reet )  f i l l i ng  the ob jec t ive  s lo t .At th i s  stage the lex ica l  representat ion  and the semantic in terpretat ion  of  a com-pound or  a der ivat ive  are stored in the system's \ ]ex ica \ ]  memory fo r  several  reasons:- to e l iminate  the need fo r  repet i t ion  o f  the whole ana lys i s  each time theword occurs,- to form the basis fo r  ana logy-dr iven  reso}ut ion  of  word fo rmat ions ,- to enable the system to use understandable words wh i le  generat ing  ut ter -ances from semantic representat ions  (see below).An example o f  a semantic in terpretat ion  which is s t i l l  ambiguous at  th i s  process ingstage is the one fo r  BILDERRAHMEN (p ic ture  frame),  which besides a semantic repre-sentat ion  express ing a who le -par t  re la t ion  would, by reference to the case frame o fthe German verb RAHMEN ( to  f rame),  be in terpreted  as an ob jec t -verb  nemina l i za t ion(the framing o f  p ic tures ) .
Once the appropr ia te  semantic in teroretat ions  have beenin fer red ,  processing cont inues w i th  the pars ing of  the ent i re  input u t terance .
TheATN grammar o f  HAM-ANS t reats  compounds and der ivat ives  in the same way as o therwords of  the same class except that  they are more f requent ly  ambiguous, so that  theparser more o f ten  has to use knowledge of  case frame res t r i c t ions  or a t t r ibut ioncongruency to se lec t  an appropr ia te  readin 9.EVALUATION OF WORD FORMATION IN D IALOGUE CONTEXTTrying to evaluate entire utterances is the ultimate processing phase for accepting,reinterpreting or rejecting interpretations of word formations in HAM-ANS.
Supposethe client in the hotel-reservation situation already knows about a desk in theroom being offered and asks whether the desk chair is a comfortable one.
Havinginterpreted the compound SCHREIBTISCHSTUHL (desk chair) as a chair which is concep-tually located to a desk, the system would try to identify a referent with thisproperty.
According to the system's intentions (cf.
JAMESON/WAHLSTER 1982) it mightreject the existentially presupposed interpretation of 'desk chair', or it mightfind an appropriate referent and accept the interpretation.
A third possibility,which is particular plausible in this communicative setting, is to take any chairin the neighbourhood of the desk and set it up as the object referred to.
A similarcase is the relaxation of one part of an additive compound, e.g.
to agree to anobject's property stated as 'dark brown', even if only 'brown' is a proper attributeaccording to the system's extensional knowledge and no contrary information relatingto the obiect's brightness is available.It should be emphasized that the task of analyTing word formation in an ongoingdialogue is not finished when the system is able to interpret a compound or deriv-ative in utterances or even has given a satisfactory reply.
The knowledge gainedthrough the analysis and the commitments to the interpretation chosen have to beintegrated into the knowledge sources.
At present two consequences are associatedwith a successful analysis: First, the conceptual and referential semantic networksare updated to allow for subsequent reference.
Second, the knowledge sources repre-senting the partner's assL:m!
)tions about the domain of discourse are updated accord-ingly (cf.
JAMESON/WAHLSTER 1982).The worst case conceivable appears to be misspelling in a way which allows the word138 W. HOEPPNERto be acceptable on structural  and semantic grounds but doesn't make sense in thecontext of the utterance and the dialogue.
These cases, however, seem to be rare.GENERATION OF WORD FORMATIONSThe unbalanced re lat ion between the analyt lc  capab i l i t ies  of natural language AIsystems and the i r  generatlve capab i l i t ies  is found in the area of  word formation aswe\]\].
In HAM-ANS, research in word formation generation has started with two ap-proaches.
The f i r s t  is a rather simple one: By analyzing compounds and der ivat ives ,the system has created a semantic interpretat ion in terms of the language SURF andkept i t  in lexical  memory.
The basis for  answer generation is a structure of thelanguage SURF, which makes i t  possible to check agreement between certain parts ofthe answer and entr ies  in \]exical  memory.
An example of  this method is the subst i -tut ion of  the descr ipt ion LAMPE AUF DEM SCHREIBTISCH (lamp on the desk) by SCHREIB-TISCHLAMPE (desk \]amp).The second approach enables the system to make use of word formations in i ts  ownutterances without having previously analyzed a corresponding word.
For those partsof utterances which might be verbalized using word formations, e.g.
modified nounsor coordinate a t t r ibutes ,  a set of patterns is provided which, by means of a match-ing process bind re lat ion ident i f ie rs  and canonical word forms.
These are handedto a generation component whose task i t  is to decide on der ivat ion,  compounding orno word formation at a l l ,  and to yield morphologically correct junctures.ACKNOWLEDGEMENT: Research on HAM-ANS is currently being supported by the GermanMinistry for Research and Technology under contract 081T1503 8.REFERENCES\[I\] BORGIDA, A. T.: Topics in the Understanding of English Sentences by Computer.Dept.
of Comp.
Sc., University of Toronto, Technical Rep.78, Febr.1975\[2\] CERCONE, N.: Computer Analysis of English Word Formation.
Dept.
of Comp.
Sc.,University of Alberta, Technical Report TR74-6, April 1974\[3\] FININ, T. W.: The Semantic Interpretation of Compound Nominals.
CoordinatedScience Laboratory, University of I l l inois ,  Report T-96, June 1980\[4\] v.NAHN, W./FISCHER, H.: Ueber die Leistung von Morphologisierungsalgorithmenbei Substantiven.
ZDL, Beiheft 13, 1975, 130-150\[5\] v.HAHN, W./HOEP~NER, W./JAMESON,.A./WAHLSTER, W.: The Anatomy of the NaturalLanguage Dialogue System HAM-RPM.
In: L.Bolc (ed.
): Natural Language BasedComputer Systems.
Muenchen/London: Hanser/Macmillan 1980, 119-253\[6\] HOEPPNER, W.: Derivative WortbIldung der deutschen Gegenwartssprache und ihrealgorithmische Analyse.
Tuebingen: Narr 1980\[7\] JAMESON, A./HOEPPNER, W./WAHLSTER,W.
: The Natural Language System HAM-RPM asa Hotel Manager: Some Representational Prerequisites.
In: R.Wilhelm (ed.):GI-10.
Jahrestagung, Saarbruecken; Berlin: Springer 1980, 459-473\[8\] JAMESON, A./WAHLSTER, W.: User Modelling in Anaphora Generation: Ellipsis andDefinite Description.
To appear in: Proc.
of the ECAI-82, Orsay 1982\[9\] MARBURGER, H./NEUMANN, B./ NOVAK, H.-J.
: Natural Language Dialogue about Motionin an Automatically Analysed Traffic Scene.
In: Proc.
of the 7th IJCAI,Vancouver 1981, 49-51\[10\] MARCUS, M. P.: A Theory of Syntactic Recognition for Natural Language.Cambridge, Mass.
: MIT Press 1980\ [ i i \ ]  McDONALD, D.: COMPOUND: A Program that Understands Noun Compounds.
In: Proc.of the 7th IJCAI, Vancouver 1981, 1061\[12\] McDONALD, D./ HAYES-ROTH, F.: Inferential Searches of Knowledge Networks as anApproach to Extensible Language-Understanding Systems.
In: D.A.Waterman,F.Hayes-Roth (eds.
): Pattern-Directed inference Systems.
N.Y. 1978, 431-453\[13\] SAMLOWSKI, W.: Deutsche Nomlnalkomposita in einem Sprachverstehensprogramm.In: G.Veenker (ed.
): Zweites Treffen der GI-Fachgruppe Kuenstliche Intel-Iigenz.
Abt.
Informatik, Univ.
Dortmund, Bericht 13/75, 1975, 90-109\[14\] SCHOTT, G.: Automatische Kompositazeriegung mit einem MinlmalwSrterbuch zurInformatlonsgewinnung aus beliebigen Fachtexten.
In: F.Wingert (ed.):Klartextverarbeitung.
Berlin: Springer 1978, 32-43\[15\] THOMPSON, B. H.: Linguistic Analysis of Natural Language Communication withComputers.
In: Proc.
of the 8th COLING, Tokyo 1980, 190-201
