COL1NG 82, J. Horeck# {ed.
)North-Holland Publishing Company?
Academia, 1982NATURAL-LANGUAGE-ACCESS SYSTEMS ANDTHE ORGANIZATION AND USE OF INFORMATIONDonald E. WalkerArtificial Intelligence CenterSRI InternationalMenlo Park, Californla 94025U.S.A.This paper describes a program of research whose objectivesare to (I) develop systems that provide users with access toboth data and text flies through natural language dialogues;(2) study how people actually use the information to testhypotheses and solve problems; (3) modify the system designson the basis of the results of the studies so that the systemsmore effectively support such uses and increasingly come tomodel the behavior of the users.
Two of the systems are inthe medical domain: the first provides physicians withformatted information derived from patient medical records;the second responds to requests by ellciting relevant passagesfrom a medical monograph.
The third system is a more generalinformation retrieval facility that will support Interactionsamong system users and enable their successive experiences tobe accumulated within the system database.OVERALL RESEARCH OBJECTIVESThis paper describes a program of research intended to clarify how people, workingas scientists and professionals on problems in thelr respective areas ofexpertise, actually use information to solve those problems.
1 The strategy we arepursuing entails the construction of computer-based systems in which the users canaccess different kinds of information through dialogue interactions In ordinaryconversational language (see Walker, 19gl; 1982)o To carry out this programrequires an extension of computational capabilities for processing andunderstanding natural-language requests, for representing the Information contentof data and text files, and for relating the analyzed requests to therepresentations.
Studying how people use these systems to formulate and testhypotheses and to make decisions can serve as a guide to system modification,leading not only to improvements in performance but also to effective techniquesfor organizing knowledge about the problem domain and incorporating it within thesystem.
To the extent that this Iterative process is successful, the systemsshould increasingly come to model the behavior oF the users.The systems we are developing fall somewhere in the middle of a continuum offacilities that are relevant to the organization and use of information.
The twoends of the continuum are the information retrieval systems of information scienceand the knowledge-based expert systems of artificial intelligence.
Considered inidealized form, both ends represent static states.
The information retrievalsystems provide access to factual data, the raw materials of a technical domain.The expert systems embody digested knowledge that Is consensually validated asgermane to that area of inquiry.
In contrast, the "systems for experts" that weare creating constitute a milieu in which specialists in a particular field canI The preparation of this paper was supported in part by grants from the NationalCancer Institute (No.
I ROI CA26655), the National Library of Medicine(No.
I ROI LM03611), and SRI International Internal Research and Developmentfunds.4O7408 D.E.
WALKERexplore the range of information available in orde; to test hypotheses or developnew insights, the results of which will eventually become part of that field'sknowledge base.
In that respect, our systems reflect the dynamic instabilitiesand uncertainties of the continuing search for new ideas and new answers--the coreof the knowledge-synthesis-and-interpretation process.it is important that systems for experts actually be used by people who arespecialists in an area.
The capabilities we are developing are predicated on theexpectation that only the person who actually needs the information is able toevaluate its adequacy.
Two considerations are worth noting here.
First, werecognize that these needs may not be well formulated at the beginning.
A personmay recognize that he or she needs to know something about an area but not be ableto specify it precisely.
2 It is for this reason that our systems provide fordialogue interactions; they make possible, on the basis of an assessment of theretrieved information, a progressive refinement of the search specification or thehypothesis to be tested.
Only if the user is a person able to evaluate theadequacy of the results can such a dialogue be sustained.Second, because of these differences in needs, the materials in the database willbe interpreted in different ways.
That is, the information is not intrinsic inthe data; for example, a document's relevance for a user does not have to bear anynecessary relation to the relevance its contents had for the person who generatedit.
Actually, scientists and professionals typically have complex problems forwhich there are no ready-made answers.
Both the problems and the informationnecessary for their solution are dynamic.
To be useful, a system must support thereorganization and reinterpretation of its "facts.'"
It must also allow theresults of these actions to be added to the database because of their value forsubsequent users.
As noted above, the incorporation of consensually validatedinformation as knowledge is a key element in expert systems.
The systems forexpert._____~s that we are discussing here certainly must contribute to this process.However, it is essential to recognize that, even in expert systems, the underlyingknowledge structures are subject to change.The following sections describe our current efforts= which explore some of thecapabilities required to achieve these objectives.
The first, Providing Natural-Language Access to Data, focuses on the utility of a natural-language interfacefor retrieving formatted information from a database by a person familiar with thesubject matter, but not the structure of the file itself.
The second,Representing the Information Content of Texts, concentrates on the development ofprocedures for analyzing propositional content so that natural-language requestscan effect selective retrieval of relevant passages.
The third, FacilitatingGeneralized Access to Information, is directed toward establishing a more generalsystem structure wlthln which a group of people working in a related area canannotate and evaluate information sources in relation to their needs, store thecommentaries so that they can be accessed by others, and communicate the resultsof their research.PROVIDING NATURAL-LANGUAGE ACCESS TO DATAThe MEDINQUIRY project (being conducted cooperatively with research groups at theUniversity of California at San Francigco, the University of Pennsylvania, and theNational Library of Me~ielne) is concerned with providing natural-language accessto clinical databases.
~ The MEDINQUIRY system (Epsteln and Walker, 1978; Epstein,2 The characterization by Belkin and hls colleagues of an information need as an"anomalous state of knowledge" reflects this insight (Belkin, 1978; 1980).3 This work is supported by a grant from the National Cancer Institute.
"I amindebted to Scott Blols and Richard Sagebiel and their colleagues at UCSF, WallaceClark and his colleagues at the University of Pennsylvania, and Martin Epstein atthe NLM, in addition to Robert Amsler and BII Lewis at SRI for their contributionsto this project.NATURAL-LANGUAGE-ACCESS SYSTEMS AND INFORMATION USE 4091980) is designed to support both clinical research and patient management byphysicians studying the prognosis for chronic dlseases.
4 The project database,currently being established at SRI, will eventually store information on over 150attributes from approximately 1500 records of patleuts with malignant melanoma, askin cancer with an unusually high mortality rate.MEDINQUIRY enables the physician to enter requests in English that retrievespecified data for particular patients or for groups of patients who share certaincharacteristics, that induce a variety of calculations, that enable browsingthrough the database, that support identifying and exploring relationships amongpatient attributes, and that relate information in the database to prognosis andoutcome.
The system consists of a natural language processor based on LIFER(Hendrix, 1977), a database access module~ the database itself, which containsinformation from patient records, and a response generator.
When the user typesin a request, the natural-language processor attempts to analyze it using generalknowledge about English and knowledge specific to melanoma, that are contained ina set of grammatical rules defining the language accepted by the system.
Thegrammar was developed on the basis of a comprehensive review of the literature onmelanoma~ an analysis of the database, and discussions with melanoma experts.
Forrequests that are analyzed successfully, the user is presented with a paraphraseto show how the system has interpreted it.
For requests that cannot be analyzed,an attempt is made to explain the difficulty.
Once the request has been analyzedgrammatically, a set of functions is applied to create a logical statement of itscontent in a formal query language.
That query is applied to the database, andthe requested data are retrieved and returned to the natural-language processor.There, they are reorganized in a form that corresponds to the language of theoriginal request, and the result is presented to the user.ME,INQUIRY supports dialogue interactions; the user can follow a llne of inquiryto test a particular hypothesis by entering a series of requests that aresequentially interdependent.
Phrases can be used as well as complete sentences,the meaning of a given phrase being established on the basls of the analysis ofthe prior request.
The user can actually define new constructs at word, phrase,and sentence levels that generalize to allow interpreting a set of relatedconstructions.
For every user session MEDINQUIRY automatically records atranscript that provides a complete record of requests entered and responses made.This facility proved to be extremely helpful for evaluating problems encounteredduring system development; we plan to use it extensively in our studies ofhypothesis formation and testing by physicians.The primary medical objectives of the project include investigating the naturalhistory of melanoma, studying dlffere~ces between the patient populatlbns inCalifornia and Pennsylvania, and developing individual rlsk-predictlon methods.These goals entail the acquisition and management of large volumes of data.
Tostudy a particular aspect of the dlsease--and exclude the effects of others--It isnecessary to stratify and form arbitrary classes of data elements and then examinetheir interactions.
The development and testing of hypotheses entail severaldifferent levels of analysis.
Material from the medical records of patientsconstitutes the basic data.
Included are the primary clinical observations andthe results of laboratory tests and histopathologlcal studies.
The physicianneeds to identify and aggregate the critical variables and to determine how theyrelate to high level concepts llke "stage of disease" and "high risk primary.
"The judgments of a particular physician, so labeled, can be entered into thedatabase so that others can assess their utility.MEDINQUIRY is operational, and we are In the process of entering data from patientrecords.
When a sufficient amount of material is available, the physicians on theproject will begin to access the database systematically.
Then, we will begin the4 MEDINQUIRY, written in INTERLISP, is installed on DEC 2060 computers at SRI andat the National Library of Medicine in Betbesda, Maryland.410 D.E.
WALKERreal process of evaluation, using those observations to guide refinements in thesystem design.REPRESENTING THE INFORMATION CONTENT OF TEXTSIncreasing amounts of medical information in text form are becoming available forcomputer-based search and retrieval.
However, the existing key-word-basedprocedures for locating a particular passage in a document are both awkward to useand grossly insensitive.
To enable more efficient access by physicians and otherhealth professionals, we are developing capabilities that allow a person5to searcha textual data base more effectively through natural-language dialogues.The initial database for our research Is a computerized monograph containingcurrent knowledge about hepatitis, the Hepatitis Knowledge Base being developed atthe National Library of Medicine (Bernsteln et al, 1980).
We are encoding(primarily by hand but wlth computer assistance) a "text structure" for thedocument that consists of logical representations summarizing the Informationcontent of individual passages together wlth a specification of the hierarchicalrelationships among the passages.
The logical representations are expressed in aformal language in which canonical predicates are useo.In the text access system we are developing, a request is analyzed in two majorphases (I) A grammatical analysis determines the structure of the sentence, whichis then translated into its logical form.
For this purpose, we are usin~DIALOGIC, a natural-language-understanding system developed at SRI.
v(2) Inferences drawn from a knowledge store are used to solve discourse problemsposed by the request and to translate it into the canonical predicates in whichthe text structure is expressed.
The result is th@n matched against the textstructure to identify relevant passages for retrieval.
lThe knowledge store is of particular interest, because it allows the text accesssystem to deal with requests that go beyond its canonical vocabulary.
It is notenough to represent Just the vocabulary in the monograph itself, for a physiciancannot be expected to be restricted to that set of terms.
The user will generallybe approaching the document from the broader point of view of medicine as a wholeand without knowing precisely what is included in the text.
Consequently, we needto Incorporate knowledge about the larger domain within which a request is beingformulated, Here, too, it is not sufficient simply to relate the medicalknowledge of the user to the actual contents of the monograph, because requestswill often concern aspects of the disease that are not mentioned in the particulartext, but would be in a more comprehensive "possible'" hepatitis knowledge base.For example, requests can concern aspects of hepatitis that are not yet known orare no longer believed, and have therefore been deleted from subsequent versionsof the HKB.
Requests may use a vocabulary that is not in the document, and maymention events, specific interactions, and exceptions for which the existingmonograph has only indirect information.
The existing texts on hepatitis arereally only one part of a larger set of texts that did or could exist; therequester is, in effect, addressing a request to this larger set rather than tothe actual document.5 This work is supported by a grant from the National Library of Medicine.
It isreported in Walker and Hobbs (1981) and in Hobbs, Walker, and Amsler (1982), apaper that is included in the proceedings of this conference.6 DIALOGIC is described in Grosz et al (1982), which is included i n  theproceedings of this conference; the grammar for the system is discussed inRobinson (1982).7 Hobbs (1980) provides a more detailed description of the DIANA system, which isused to perform the Infereuclng.NATURAL-LANGUAGE-ACCESS SYSTEMS AND INFORMATION USE 411Our work on representing the lnformatlon content of texts ls still at an earlystage of development.
However, the problems we are addressing are critical forthe development of capabilities that can support people who organize and useinformation.FACILITATING GENERALIZED ACCESS TO INFORMATIONPolytext is a new system concept for text retrieval being developed in cooperationwith Hans Karlgren and the Kval Institute for Information Science In Stockholm,Sweden (Karlgren and Walker, 1980).
8 Responding to inadequacies in currentinformation retrieval technology, Polytext provides the following capabilities:dialogue facilities aid the user in formulating and refining requests and inevaluating the relevance of both intermediate and final results; the successiveexperiences users have with the data are accumulated in the database and avallableto others; alternative algorithms and strategies (human as well as computer) forprocessing texts and representing the information they contain are accommodated--and the metatextual commentary they provide is explicitly ident\[fled as to source.The central feature of the system is the notion of "messaging": all data elementsIn the system are considered to be messages--as are the alternativerepresentations of the content of each data element, the requests addressed to thesystem, the evaluations of the relevance of each request to the data retrieved,and other communlcatlons among users.
The structural features of each suchmessage--in particular, a toplc/comment relation patterned after contemporarylinguistic usage (Kiefer, 1980)--provlde the basis for linking it appropriately toother messages.
When a user's request is processed, pointers are provided both torelevant items In the primary source text and to the results of previous requeststhat appear related.
It Ks possible to examine the rationale for therelationships adduced and to identify their origin.After establishing the design features for Polytext, we recognized the need for aproject of this magnitude to proceed by well-deflned steps.
Accordingly, the nextphase of our research was the production of a demonstration model to verify someof the basic concepts (Loef 1980).
For this initial work, we selected a shortlegal document containing rules for arbitrating disputes that arise in connectionwith contracts.
We developed three ways of providing access to the text, using,respectively, (I) index terms, (2) the hierarchical structure of the text, and(3) an analysis of the predlcate-argument, or propositional, structure of the textto derive a more detailed model of the information It contains.
For eachapproach, we provided the appropriate interface to a LIFER grammar, so that it wasactually possible to enter English queries and to retrieve the appropriate passageas  a response.We are attempting to keep the basic Polytext software as simple as posslble.Therefore, intelligent and short-llved modules are kept outside as programs uslngthe system rather than as parts of it.
Thus text analyzers (machine or human) maytake one message at a time, interpret it, and report the result as a new message,which has the analyzed message as its topic and the recoding In some meta-languageas its comment.
The lexicon for the system would itself be :,toted in messageform, and the programs could use  other messages for Information in the course oftheir analyses, pIn the context of the research program, Polytext constitutes an environment inwhich the range of Issues associated with the organization and use of informationcan begin to be evaluated.
It will be essential t~ incorporate sophisticatedcapabilities for dialogue Interactlon and content representatlon--of the kindbeing developed in the other two projects--but we have at least begun to establisha flexible system structure that can ac~mmodate many users and accumulate tbei#collective experiences.8 This work is supported by SRI Independent Research and Development funds and byseveral Swedish sources.
I am deeply indebted to Hans Karlgren for his inspiration.412 D.E.
WALKERREFERENCESBelkin NJ.
1978.
"Information Concepts for Information Science."
Journal ofDocumentation 34:55-85.Belkin NJ.
1980.
"Anomalous States of Knowledge as a Basis for InformationRetrieval."
Canadian Journal of Information Science 5:133-143.Bernstefn LM; Siegel ER; Ford WH.
1980.
"The Hepatitis Knowledge Base: APrototype Information Transfer System."
Annals of Internal Medicine 93:165-222.Epstein MN.
1980.
Natural Language Access to Clinical Data Bases.Ph.D.
Dissertation, Medical Information Science, University of California, SanFrancisco.Epstein MN; Walker DE.
1978.
"Natural Language Access to a Melanoma Data Base.
"Proceedings of The Second Annual S~poslum on Computer Applieatlons in MedicalCare pp 320-325.
New York: IEEE.Grosz B; Haas N; Hobbs J; Martin P; Moore R; Robinson J; Rosenschein S.
1982.
"DIALOGIC, A Core-Natural-Language Processing System."
COLING 82: Proceedin~sof the Ninth International Conference on Computational Linguistics, Prague,Czechoslovakia.Hendrlx GG.
1977.
"The LIFER Manual: A Guide to Building Practical NaturalLanguage Interfaces."
Technical Note 138, Artificial Intelligence Center,Stanford Research Institute, Menlo Park, California (February 1977).Hobbs JR. 1980.
"Selective Inferenelng."
Proceedings of the Canadian Socletyfo___~r Computatlonal Studies In Intelligence pp 101-114.
Victoria, B.C.Hobbs JR; Walker DE; Amsler RA.
1982.
"Natural Language Access to StructuredText.
COLING 82: Proceedings of the Ninth International Conference onComputational Linguistics, Prague, Czechoslovakia.Karlgren H; Walker DE.
1980.
"The POLYTEXT System - A New Design for a TextRetrieval System."
To be published in the Proceedings of a Conference onQuestions and Answers held in Visegrad, Hungary (4-6 May 1980).Kiefer F. 1980.
"Toplc-Comment Structure of Texts (and Its Contribution to theAutomatic Processing of Texts."
COLING 80: Proceedings of the 8th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics pp 240-241.
Tokyo, Japan.Loef S. 1980.
"The POLYTEXT/ARBIT Demonstration System."
FOA Report C40121-M7,Swedish National Defence Research Institute, Umea, Sweden (September 1980).Robinson JJ.
1982.
"DIAGRAM: A Grammar for Dialogues."
Communications of theACM 25:27-47.Walker DE.
1981.
"The Organization and Use of Information: Contributions ofInformation Science, Computational Linguistics and Artificial Intelligence.
"Journal of the American Soclet~ for Information Science 32:347-363.Walker DE.
1982.
"Computational Strategies for Analyzing the Organization andUse of Information."
In Knowledge Structure and Use: Perspectives o~n S>-nthesisand Interpretation.
Edited by S Ward and L Reed.
National Institute ofEducation, Washington, D.C., in cooperation wlth CEMREL, Inc., St. Louis,Missouri (in press).Walker DE; Hobbs JR. 1981.
"Natural Language Access to Medical Text.
"Proceedings o f  the Fifth Annual Symposium o__n_nComputer Applications in MedicalCare pp 269-273.
New York: IEEE.
