COLING 82, Z Horecl~ (ed.
}North-Holland Publishing Company?
Academia, 1982MULTI-LEVEL TRANSLATION AIDS IN ADISTRIBUTED SYSTEMAlan K. MelbyLinguistics DepartmentBrigham Young UniversityProvo, Utah 84602 U.S.A.At COLING80, we reported on an Interactive Translation Systemcalled ITS.
We will discuss three problems in the design of thefirst version of ITS: (1) human factors ,  (2) the "all or nothing"syndrome, and (3) traditional centralized processing.
We will alsodiscuss a new version of ITS, which is now being programmed.This new version will hopeful ly overcome these problems byplacing the translator in control, providing multiple levels of aid,and distributing the processlng.OVERVIEWAt COLING80, we reported on an Interactive Translation System ealled ITS.
We willconsider three problems in the first version of ITS: (1) human factors, (2) the 'Wall ornothing" syndrome, and (3) traditional centralized processing.The first problem (human factors) is the problem of keeping human t rans lators  andrevisors happy.
Humans naturally want to feel that they are doing useful, interestingwork and that they are using the machine instead of it using them.
However, thefirst version of ITS forced them to answer many uninteresting questions and to revisemany sentences they thought should be retranslated.The "el!
or nothing" syndrome is a name for the att i tude that the machine musttranslate every sentence or it is not worth using a machine at a l l  The problem isthat a system based on this approach is likely to be hard to adjust into a useful formif it does not attain the desired level of performance.The problem with tradit ional  centra l ized process ing is that  it does not providecons istent ,  rel iable response t ime to e~ch user and requires physical proximity orhigh-speed te lecommunicat ions .
And a eent ra l i zed  sys tem may be hard todecentralize after it has been designed.The first version of ITS had all three of the above problems.
These problems woulddisappear if we had FAI-IQT (Fully Automat ic ,  High Quality Translat ion --  Bar-llillel,1960).
In that case a source text  would be presented to the computer, whichwould promptly produce a poIished t rans lat ion,  typeset  and ready to be publishedwithout revision.
That would solve the human problems because no human translatorswould be involved.
The "all or nothing" quest ion would be irrelevant because wewould have it all.
And centralized processing would not be a problem because therewould be no interactive processing.
This paper assumes that FAllQT of general text isnot on the visible horizon and proposes a design which answers these problems.In the new version of ITS, each t rans lator  works at a microcomputer instead of aconventional terminal.
The microcomputers are part of a distributed network but canfunction without being on-line.
The translator uses the microcomputer as a tool forgett ing the t rans lat ion done and is in control of the translation process.
There arethree levels of aid available to the translator ,  ranging from simple text processing to215216 A.K.
MELBYterminology aids to full machine transtation.
All three levels are fully integrated andthe translator can quickly switch from one level to another even within thetranslation of a single sentence.
This means that the translation process can continuesmoothly regardless of how many sentences fail to receive a full analysis and a goodmachine translation.
This in turn means that the actual machine translat ioncomponent can be "pure" in the sense that no compromises need be made to ensuresome kind of output even on sentences that are not analyzable v~ith the currentparser and model of language.It is hoped that the above design will solve the three problems under discussion.Placing the translators in control of the operation of the system should improve theirattitude.
Using multiple levels of aid should overcome the dangers of the "all ornothing" approach.
And replacing conventional terminals with microcomputers shouldovercome some of the problems of centralized processing.
Solving these user-orientedproblems is important from a theoret ica l  viewpoint because ven a researchtranslation system desperately needs user feedback from real translators.
And realtranslators will not give the needed feedback unless the system is practical anduser-friendly.The rest of the paper will elaborate on each of the three problems and theirproposed solution in the new version of ITS.PROBLEM ONE: HUMAN FACTORSLacking FAHQT, human translators and revisors are still needed in a computerizedtranslation system.
In ITS version one, translating a text involved asking questionsabout each sentence of the text before the translation of the first sentence appeared.When the translated sentences finally did appear, the translator/revisor was expectedto examine and then revise them as needed but not to retranslate hem from thesource text.
After all, this was a human-assisted MACHINE translation system andwe had already invested considerable interaction time and machine time in thetranslation of each sentence.
The translator/revisor was to remove the errors fromthe machine's translation and no more.
Understandably, the human translator/revisoroften felt more like a "garbage collector" than a translator.Having an unhappy translator is a serious problem.
It should be remedied, if possible,for two reasons: (I) We should be concerned for the translator as a person.
(2) Anunhappy translator will fight the system.
Consider the following statement by ahuman translator:During my years with JPRS .
.
.
I had occasion to do somepost-editing of machine translations, in addition to my normalassignments .
.
.
.
Monetary considerations a ide, the work wasodious.
To post-edit, a conscientious translator had to literallyretranslate every sentence in the original, compare it word forword with the clumsy machine attempts, and' then laboriouslyprint in corrections between the lines of the printout.
It wouldhave been much faster--and less tedious--just to translate "fromscratch" and dictate the translation on tape, as I normally do.And I am sure the product would have been better.
It was thusmy impression that post-editing of machine translations itranslation work at coolie wages.
I can't imagine anyone wantingto do it unless the alternative was starvation.
(Silverstein,1981)Seppanen (1979) claims that relatively little attention has been paid to the pragmaticaspects of man/machine dialogues.
He claims that human factors in man/machineinterfaces have not at t racted the interest  of either computer scientists orpsychologists.
Perhaps, then, human factors in computerized translation systems arean appropriate area of interest for computational linguists, and this view seems to beMULTI-LEVEL TRANSLATION AIDS IN A DISTRIBUTED SYSTEM 217gaining momentum from within the field.
Researchers at the Grenoble project haveconcluded:The human and social aspects should not be neglected.
To forcea rigid system on revisors and translators i a guarantee offailure.
It must be realized that AT (Automatized Translation)can only be introduced step by step into some preexistingorganizational structure.
The translators and revisors of the ECdid not only reject Systran because of its poor quality but alsobecause they felt themselves becoming "slaves of the machine",and condemned to a repetitive and frustrating kind of work.
(Boitet et ai,1980)Our answer to the problem of human factors is to place the translator in control.The translator uses human judgment to decide when to post-edit and when totranslate.
Nothing is forced upon the translator.
This approach is strongly arguedfor by Kay (1980) when he states: "The kind of translation device I am proposing willalways be under the tight control of a human translator".
And Lippman (1977)describes a successful terminology aids experiment in Mannheim and concludes: "Thefact that quality was improved, rather than degraded as in the ease of MT, appearsto support the soundness of an approach where the translator etains full control ofthe translation process.
"PROBLEM TWO: THE "ALL OR NOTHING s' SYNDROMEOriginally, FAHQT was the only goal of research in machine translation.
Untilrecently, there seemed to be a widely shared assumption that the only excuse for theinclusion of a human translator in a machine translation system was as a temporary,unwanted appendage to be eliminated as soon as research progressed a little further.This "all or nothing" syndrome drove early machine translation researchers to aim forFAHQT or nothing at all.
It is now quite respectable in computational linguistics todevelop a computer system which is a TOOL used by a human expert to accessinformation helpful in arriving at a diagnosis or other conclusion.
Perhaps, then, it istime to entertain the possibility that it is also respectable to develop a machine'-anslation system which includes ophisticated linguistic processing yet is designed toused as a tool for the human translator.h you expect each sentence of the final translation to be a straight machinetranslation or at worst a slight revision of a machine translated sentence, then youare setting yourself up for a fall.
Remember Brinkmann's conclusion that "thepost-editing effort required to provide texts having a correctness rate of 75 or even80 percent with the corrections necessary to reach an acceptable standard of qualityis unjustifiable as far as expenditure of money and manpower is concerned"(Brinkmann,1980).
Thus, a strict post-edit approach must be nearly perfect or it isalmost useless.
Many projects tart out with high goals, assuming that post-editingcan surely rescue them if their original goals are not achieved.
Even post-editing maynot make the system viable.The proposed solution to this problem is to anticipate from the beginning that notevery sentence of every text will be translated by computer and find its way to thetarget text with little or no revision.
Then an effort can be made from thebeginning to provide for a smooth integration of human and machine translations.
ITSversion two will have three integrated levels of aid under the control of thetranslator.
We will now describe the three levels of translator aids.Level one translator aids can be used immediately even without he source text beingin machine-readable form.
In other words, the translator can sit down with a sourcetext on paper and begin translating much as if at a typewriter.
Level one includes atext processor with integrated terminology aids.
For familiar terms that recur there218 A.K.
MELBYis a monolingual expansion code table which allows the user to insert user-definedabbreviations in the text and let the machine expand them.
This feature is akin tothe "macro" capability on sortie word processors.
The key can be several  characterslong instead of a single control character, so the number of expansion codes availableis limited principally by the desire of the translator.
Level one also provides accessto a bilingual terminology data bank.
There is a term file in the microcomputeritself under the control of the individual translator.
The translator also has access toa larger,  shared term bank (through telecommunications or local network).
Level oneis similar to a t rans lator  aid being developed by Leland Wright, chairman of theTerminology Commit tee  of the Amer ican Trans lator 's  Associat ion.
Ideally, thet rans la tor  would a lso have access to a data base of texts  (both or iginal  andtranslated) which may be useful as research tools.Level two translator aids require the source text  to be in machine-readable form.Ineluded in level two are utilities to process the source text according to the desiresof the t rans lator .
For example, the translator may ran aceross an unusual term andrequest a list of all occurrences of that term in that text.
Level two also includes a"suggestion box" option (Melby,1981) which the t rans la tor  can invoke.
This featurecauses each word of the current text segment o be automatieal ly looked up in theterm file and displays any matches in a field of the screen called the suggestion box.If the translator opts to use the suggested translation of a term, a keystroke or twowill insert it into the text at the point specified by the translator.
If the t rans la tordesires,  a morphological  rout ine can be activated to inflect the term according toevidence available in the source and target segments.Level three translator aids integrate the translator work station with a full-blown MTsystem.
The MT component can be any machine translation system that  includes ase l f -eva luat ion metr ic .
The system uses that  metr ic  to asssign to each of thetranslated sentences a qual i ty rat ing (e.g.
"A" means probable human quality, "B"means some uncertainty about parsing or semantic choices made, "C" means probablef law, and "D" is severely deficient).
On any segment, the translator may request tosee the machine translation of that segment.
If it looks good, the translator can pullit down into the work area, revise it as needed, and thus incorporate it into thet rans lat ion being produced by the translator.
Or the translator may request to seeonly those sentences that have a rat ing above a specified threshold (e.g.
above "C").Of course, the translator is NEVER obliged to use the machine translation unless thetranslator feels it is more efficient to use it than to translate manually.
No pressureis needed other than the pressure to produce rapid, high--quality translations.
If usingthe machine translations make the t rans lat ion process go faster and better, then thetranslator will naturally use them.The successful METEO system by TAUM (Montreal) expresses the essence of thisapproach.
All sentences  go into the MT system.
The system evaluates its ownoutput and accepts about 80 percent  of the sentences .
Those sentences are usedwithout post--editing.
The other 20 percent are translated by a human and integratedinto the mach ine- t rans la ted  sentences.
This application differs from ours in thathuman translators do not see any machine t rans lat ions  at all--goed or bad.
But thebasic level three approach is there.One posit ive aspect  of this three level approach is that  whi le  leve l  th ree  isdramat ica l ly  more complex l inguist ical ly and computationaliy than level two, levelthree appears to the translator to be very similar to level two.
Level two presentskey terms in the sentence; level three presents whole sentences .
When good levelthree segments  are avai lable,  it can speed up the translation considerably but theirabsence does not stop the translation process.
Thus, a multi-level system can be putinto production much sooner than a conventional post-edit system.
And the sooner asystem is put into production, the sooner useful feedback is obtained from the users.MULTI-LEVEL TRANSLATION AIDS IN A DISTRIBUTED SYSTEM 219The multi-level approach is designed to please (a) the sponsors (because the system .isuseful early in the project and becomes more useful with time), (b) the users (becausethey are in cont ro l  and choose  the leve l  of  aid),  and (c) the l inguists andprogrammers (because they are not pressured to make compromises just to getautomatic translation on every sentence).PROBLEM THREE: TRADITIONAL CENTRALIZED PROCESSINGMachine translation began in the 1950's when the cost of a CPU prohibited thethought of distributed processing in which each user has a personal CPU.
Interactivetime-shared computing (where ach user has a dumb terminal connected to a sharedCPU) can give the impression that each user has a personal computer--so long as thesystem is not loaded own.
Unfortunately, systems tend to get loaded own.
Highlyinteractive work such as word processing is not suited to an environment wherekeystroke response times vary.
Also, centralized processing requires either physicalproximity to the main CPU or te lecommunicat ions li es.
High speedtelecommunications canbe vary costly, and low speed telecommunications are notuser-fr!endly.
A costly solution is to obtain a dedicated mainframe and never load itdown.
A more cost-effective solution in terms of today's computer systems i adistributed system in which each translator has a microcomputer tied into a loosenetwork to share resources such as large dictionaries.The individual translator work station would be a microcomputer with approximately256K of main memory, dual diskette drives, CRT, keyboard, small printer, andcommunications port.
Such systems are available at relatively low cost (under 5 000U.S.
dollars).
Additional storage for term files and text files can be obtained atreasonable cost by adding a Winchester-type disk.
If several translators are in thesame building, a local network can be set up to share terminology and document databases and even inter-translator messages.
The capabilities of the work station wouldinclude rapid, responsive word processing and access to internal dictionaries and toshared translator data bases (i.e.
level one and level two processing).
The internaldictionaries would include an expansion file and a terminology file under the controlof the translator.
Of course, the translator could load internal files appropriate ot'~.
subject matter of the document by inserting the appropriate diskettes.
Access tos, .rce texts, document-specific di tionaries, and level three machine translationsc~ I be granted through a local network, a telecommunications network, or throughthe mails on diskette.
Ideally, part of the machine translation would be done on thetranslator work station in order to allow the translator to repair level threedictionary problems before they cause rep.eated errors throughout a text.
A minimalcapability m the work statlon would be a translator defined replacement table tocorrect some improper word choices that cause repeated errors in the machinetranslated sentences.
Ultimately, microcomputers will be powerful enough to allowsource text to be presented to a work station which contains full level threesoftware.
In the meantime, the raw machine translation part of level three can bedone remotely on any suitable mainframe and then transmitted to a microcomputertranslator work station for integration i to the translation process as level three aids.CONCLUSIONThe system described is not, of course, entirely original.
It draws on ideas fromUniversity colleagues and others uch as Kay, Boitet, Lippman, Andreyewski, Wright,and Brinkmann.
But it does represent an important ~hift in direction from past yearsof research on ITS at Brigham Young University .
It is an integration of amachine-translation system and a terminology aid system, with the final translatedtext being produced on a microcomputer in a distributed network.220 AX.
MELBYThe author's major motivations for pursuing this system are to provide a usefultranslator aids system and to create an appropriate vehicle for machine translationresearch.
Fortunately, given the framework of this paper, those two goals areCompatible.
A significant additional advantage is that the usefulness of the translatoraids component (levels one and two) will fac i l i tate obtaining serious user feedbackduring the development of the machine translation component (level three).1There are three groups doing work on machine-assisted translation in Prove, Utah,U.S.A.
Two are commercial endeavors (Weidner and ALPS), and the third, the onedescribed in this paper, is an academic research project at Brigham Young University.All three groups include researchers who part ic ipated in the development of ITSversion one, yet a11 three are independent organizations.REPERENCES(1) Andreyewski , Alexander, Translation: Aids,  Robots, and Automation, METAVol.
26, No.
1 (March 1981) 57-66.
(2) Bar-Hi l lel ,  J., The Present Status of Automatic Translation of Languages,Advananees in Computers, Vol.
1 (Academic Press, New York, 1960) 158.
(3) Baudot, Jean, Andre Clas, and Irene Gross, Un modele de mini-banque determinologie bilingue, META, ee l  26, No.
4 (1981) 315-331.
(4) Boitet, Ch., P. Chatelin, P. Daun Fraga, Present and Future Paradigms in theAutomatized Translation of Natural Languages, in: COLINGS0 (Tokyo, 1980).
(5) Brinkmann, Karl-Heinz, Terminology Data Banks as a Basis for High-QualityTranslation, in: COLING80 (Tokyo, 1980).
(6) Kay, Martin, The Proper Place of Men and Machines in Language Translation,Xerox Pale Alto Research Center Report (October 1980).
(7) Lippman, Erhardt, Computer Aids for the Human Translator, Report presented atthe VIII World Congress of FIT, Montreal (1977).
(8) Melby, Alan K. ,  Melvin R. Smith, and Jill Peterson, ITS: Interactive TranslationSystem, in: COLINGS0 (Tokyo, 1980).
(9) Melby, Alan K., Linguistics and Maehine Translation, in: James Copeland andPhilip Davis (eds.
), The Seventh LACUS Forum 1980 (Hornbeam Press, Columbia,SC, 1981).
(10) Melby, Alan K., A Suggestion Box Translator Aid, in: Proceedings of the annualsymposium of the Deseret Language and Linguistic Society, (Brigham YoungUniversity, Prove, Utah, 1981).
(11) 8eppunan, Jouko, Pragmatic Aspects of Man/Computer Dialogues, in: HelsinkiUniversity of Technology Computer Center, Research Report No.
12 (1979).
(12) Silverstein, Virginia, Letter to the editor, ATA Clroniele (November 1991).
