COLING 82, J. Horeck~ {eft.
)North.Holland Publishing CompanyCc~ Academt~ 1982NATURAL LANGUAGE ACCESS TO STRUCTURED TEXTJ e r ry  R. Robbs, Donald E. Walker, and Robert A. AmslerSRI InternationalMenlo Park, Callfornla 94025U.S.A.This paper d i scusses  the problem of prov id ing  natura l  languageaccess to textual material.
We are developing a system thatre la tes  a request  in  Eng l i sh  to spec i f i c  passages in  adocument on the bas i s  of correspondences between the log ica lrepresentat ions  of the in format ion  in  the request  and in  thepassages .
In add i t ion ,  we are deve lop ing procedures fo rautomat ica l ly  generat ing  log ica l  representat ions  of textpassages ,  d i rec t ly  from the text ,  by means of an ana lys i s  ofthe coherence s t ruc ture  of the passages.INTRODUCTIONAt SRI we are developing a system for  natura l  language access  to textua l  mater ia l ,The system i s  to provide access  to a textbook or  other  document of someimportance,  by re turn ing  re levant  passages in  response to a user ' s  natura llanguage request .
Cur rent ly  we are us ing the Hepat i t i s  Knowledge Base, acompendium of cur rent  knowledge about hepat i t i s  compiled by the Nat iona l  L ib raryof  Medicine, a l though the techniques we are dev is ing  are  in no way par t i cu la r  toth i s  document \ [c f .
Walker, 1982\].
The pro jec t  has two phases.
In the f i r s t ,  weare  developing text  access  procedures fo r  t rans la t ing  a user ' s  request  in to  anunder ly ing  log ica l  form and, in  order  to locate  the appropr ia te  passages ,  matchingthe log ica l  form with a Text S t ruc ture  which expresses  the s t ruc ture  of thedocument as a whole and summarizes the content  of ind iv idua l  passages in  terms ofcanon ica l  p red icates  (Walker and Hobbs, 1981\].
In the second, longer - te rm e f fo r t ,we are develop ing procedures for  automat ica l ly  generat ing  por t ions  of the TextS t ruc ture  d i rec t ly  from the text .THE TEXT ACCESS COMPO~NTIn the text  access  component, a user ' s  request  i s  t rans la ted  into  log ica l  form bySRI 's  DIALOGIC system, descr ibed in another paper submitted to th i s  conference\[Grosz et  a l ,  1982\].
This log ica l  express ion  i s  then turned over to theln fe renc ing  component DIANA \[Hobbs, 1980\], where var ious  d i scourse  problems areso lved and a match with the Text S t ruc ture  i s  sought.As an i l l us t ra t ion  of th i s  process ,  cons ider  the fo l lowing example query:During what per iod i s  immunopropbylaxis appropr ia te  fol lo~rlngexposure to type B hepat i t i s?DIALOGIC t rans la tes  the request  in to  the fo l lowing form:DURING (APPROPRIATE (IMMUNOPROPHYLAXIS (I, Xl, Y) IFOLLOW ( I ,  EXPOSE(X2, HEPATITIS-B))),?X \[ PERIOD (?X) )That i s ,  dur ing per iod ?X, the ?mmunoprophylaxis I of X1 aga ins t  Y, where Ifo l lows an exposure event of X2 to hepat i t i s  B, i s  appropr ia te .Two k inds of d i scourse  problems are exempl i f ied  here .
F i r s t ,  there  i s  the problemof determin ing imp l i c i t  arguments.
We are not to ld  exp l i c i t l y  what127128 J.R. HOBBS et alImmunoprophy lax ls  i s  aga lns t ,  on ly  what exposure  was --t?"
We need to  draw thein fe rence  that  exposure  to  so l t~thlng i s  typ lca l ly  fo l lowed by Immunoprophy lax lsaga ins t  i t .
Th is  prob lem must be so lved  i f  we are  to re t r ieve  the  proper  passageson immunizat ion  aga ins t  hepat i t i s  B v i rus  (HBV) ra ther  than  some other  agent .S imi la r ly ,  we are  not  to ld  exp l l c l t l y  that  the one who was exposed i s  the  one whow i l l  rece ive  immuooprophy lax ls ,  that  i s ,  that  X1 and X2 are  the same Ind lv ldua l .The second d iscourse  problem i l lus t ra ted  here  i s  that  of  metonymy.
One may ta lkabout  both  exposure  to HBV and exposure  to type B hepat i t i s .
In  the f i r s t  case  weare  ta lk ing  about  exposure  to a v i rus ,  in  the  second exposure  to  a d i sease .
TheText  S t ructure  i s  expressed  in  canon ica l  p red icates  in  a s tandard ized  form, andone of  the  s tandard izat ions  i s  in  the c lass  of  ent i t ies  that  can be the  argumento f  a p red icate .
We must dec ide ,  fo r  each pred icate ,  the  type o f  a rguments  i t  cantake .
For example ,  i s  one exposed to  a v i rus  o r  a d i sease?
For var ious  reasons ,we have dec ided  that  one i s  exposed to a v i rus  and not  to a d i sease .
Thus thein fe reoc ing  procedures  have  to  ana lyze  the  ac tua l  query  in to  one invo lv ingexposure  to  the  v i rus  caus in~ type  B hepat i t i s ,  o r  to  HBV.
Th is  coerc ion  i s  doneby access lng- ln fo rmat lon  in a knowledge base  that  "expose"  requ i res  a v i rus  as i t ssecond argument ,  that  type  B hepat i t i s  i s  caused by HBV, and that  HBV i s  a v i rus .In  o rder  to  match the  request  w i th  the  Text  S t ructure ,  DIANA needs to t rans la tethe  or ig ina l  request  in to  the  canon ica l  p red icates  in  which the  Text  S t ructure  i sexpressed .
For example ,  s ince  " immunoprophy lax is "  i s  not  one of  the  canon ica lp red icates ,  we need to use the  axiomIHHUNOPROPHYLAXIS ( i ,p ,v )  i f f  I t~ JN IZg( i ,  p ,  PROPHYLAXIS(v))that  i s ,  i i s  an immunoprophy lax is  event  o f  p aga ins t  v i f  and on ly  i f  I i s  animmunizat ion  event  o f  p fo r  p rophy lax is  aga ins t  v .
The resu l t  i s  a t rans la t ionin to  the  canon ica l  p red icates  " immunize" and "prophy lax is " ,  which are  used in  thesummaries  o f  the  re levant  passages  in  the  Text  S t ructure .GENERATING TEXT STRUCTUREOur work  on the  automat ic  generat ion  of  the  Text  S t ructure  i s  a t  a morepreliminary stage.
Automatic summarization is a central aspect of this effort.
Acertain amount of work has been done in artlflclal intelllgence and psychology onthe automatic construction of summaries, including work by Rumelhart \[1975\],Handler and Johnson \[1977\], Schank and his colleagues \[Schank et alj 1980\], andLehnert et al \[1981\].
Host of this work has focused on narratives rather thanexpository discourse, however.There are two prlnclpal techniques that we have brought to bear on the problem.The most important involves a coherence analysis of the paragraph, in a mannerdescr ibed  in  deta i l  in  Hobbs \[1976, 1978\] and s imi la r  to work by Longacre  \[1976\]and Grimes \[1975\].It can be argued that, in coherent discourse, one of a smull number of coherencerelatlons~ such as ~arallel and elaboration, holds between successive segments ofthe text.
The coherence relations can be defined in terms of the inferences thatcan be drawn from what is asserted by the segments being linked (called theassertions of the segments).
Thus, very roughly~ two sentences are parallel iftheir assertions make the same predications about similar entities.These coherence relations allow one to build up a tree-like coherence structurefor the whole text recurslvely, as follows: The coherence relations are definedbetween segments.
A clause (perhaps elliptlcal) is a segment.
When somecoherence relation holds between two segments, the two together constitltute aco_.~posed segment, which can itself be related to other segments of the text.Since the coherence relations are defined in terms of the assertions of segments,we need to specify what the assertions of the composed segments are.
For thispurpose we use a number of heurlstlcs.
For example, if two sentences areNATURAL LANGUAGE ACCESS TO STRUCTURED TEXT 129parallel, lt is because the same predication is made about similar entities.
Thenthe assertion of the composed segment makes that same predication about thesuperset to which the similar entities belong.
Thus, every node in the coherencestructure has an asserti6n associated with it.
Very frequently the assertionassociated with the top node of the coherence structure of a passage can funbtionas the summary of the passage.As an illustration of this technique, consider the following passage:(PI) Blood probably contains the highest concentration of hepatitis B virusof any tissue except liver.
Semen, vaginal secretions, and menstrualblood contain the agent and are infective.
Saliva has lowerconcentrations than blood, and even hepatitis B surface antigen may bedetectable in no more than half of infected individuals.
Urine containslow concentrations at any given time.After a grammatical analysis, the sentences in this passage can be aligned as inFigure I.
1 Every clause considers some body material containing HBV in someconcentration.
They are thus linked by the parallel coherence relation, and theassertion (and the summary) of the passage is as follows:CONTAIN (BODY-MATERIAL, HBV, CONCENTRATION)Many paragraphs we have analyzed in this way turn out to have a parallelstructure, and thus their summaries can often be constructed in a similar manner.bloodsemenvaginal secretionsmenstrual bloodsaliva(saliva of)infectedindividualsurinecontainscontainhasincontainsFigurehighest concentrationlower concentrationsdetectable ... nomore than halflow concentrationsParallels in Passage (PI)HBVagentHBsAgA second factor must also be taken into account in constructing thesummarlzations.
In addition to containing summaries of individual passages, theText Structure contains a representation of the hierarchical organization of thedocument as a whole, as well as other aspects of its overall structure.
The placeof an individual passage within the hierarchical organization constrains what canfunction as a summary of the passage.
A summary must distinguish a passage fromother passages at the same level in the hierarchy.
Top-down considerationsfrequently lead us to refine a Summary we arrive at solely by the bottom-upcoherence analysis.As an example, consider the following passage:(P2) Generally blood donor quality is held high by avoiding commerclaldonors, persons with alcoholic cirrhosis, and those practicing illleltself-lnjectlon.
Extremely careful selectlon of paid donors may providesafe blood sources in some instances.1 This diagram i s  s imi la r  to the formats developed by Sager and her col leagues\[Sager, 1981\].130 J.R. HOBBS et alAVOID (DONOR I CONDITION (DONOR))/ I \/ I \I I \Except ion :  " (avo id )  persons  " (avo id )  thoseAVOID(DONOR \[ w i th  a lcoho l i c  p ract i c ing  I l l i c i tCOMMERCIAL(DONOR)) cirrhosis" self-lnjectlon"/ \/ \/ \"avoid Secondcommercial Sentencedonors"Figure 2 Coherence Structure of Paragraph (P2)A coherence analysis results in the structure show in Figure 2.
"Selection"contrasts with "avoiding," so we can say that the second sentence expresses anexception to the first conjunct of the first sentence.
Because the secondsentence is hedged very heavily, the assertion of the composed segment is theassertion of the initial conjunct of the first sentence--"avoid commercialdonors."
The three assertions of the first sentence stand in a parallel relationsince they imply the same proposition about similar entitles.
They all imply(trivially) that certain classes of potential donors are to be avoided if bloodquality is to be held high?
Entities are similar if they share some common andreasonably specific property, that is, if they belong to some common andreasonably small superset.
Our three classes of potential donors are similar inthat they are all potential donors.
The similarity would be stronger if therewere some more specific property that characterized commercial donors, those withalcoholic cirrhosis, and illicit self-inJectors, but there does not seem to besuch a property.
The most we can say seems to be that they are potential donors,and we arrive at the following assertion for the paragraph as a whole.AVOID (DONOR I CONDITION (DONOR))However, such a summary fails to distinguish this paragraph from its siblings inthe hierarchical structure of the HKB as a whole.
The nodes most immediatelydominating this section in the hierarchy of the HKB correspond to sections aboutthe quality of blood products under varying conditions, with respect to the riskof hepatitis in transfusion.
There are two broad classes of conditions that arediscussed, first, conditions characterizing the donor, and second, conditionscharacterizing the type of 51ood product.
Among the conditions characterizing thedonor are a history of hepatitis, recent transfusions, and positive results onserologic tests, as well as the conditions described in the example.
Thus, thestructure of the summaries In the paragraphs should be something like that shownin Figure 3.It is therefore not sufficient for us to characterize the paragraph as being aboutavo id ing  potent ia l  donors  exh ib i t ing  some cond i t ion .
Thus ,  top -downcons iderat ions  lead  us to  re jec t  the  summary we came up w i th  so le ly  by the  bot tom-up coherence  ana lys i s .
We need someth ing  more spec i f i c ,  and the  best  we can  do i ss imply  to  have  a d i s junct ion  o f  p roper t ies  ss  the  cond i t ion  character i z ing  thedonors :AVOID (DONOR \] COMMERCIAL(DONOR) or CIRRHOSIS(DONOR)or SELF-INJECTOR(DONOR) )NATURAL LANGUAGE ACCESS TO STRUCTURED TEXT 131QUALITY (BLOOD-PRODUCT)QUALITY (BLOOD-PRODUCT I CONDITION (DONOR))\[summary of our example\]CONDITION ffi history of hepatitisCONDITION - recent  transfusionCONDITION ~ positive serologic tests(BLOOD-PRODUCT I TYPE (BLOO PRODUCT)Figure 3 Hierarchical Structure of Paragraph SummariesCONCLUSIONWhile these methods for the automatic generation of summaries of expository textseem promising, difficult problems remain--Including the problems of encoding andsearching a very large knowledge base.
In order to have practical milestonesystems in the near term, we are working toward two scaled-down versions of theultlmate system.
First, we are experimenting with using a pre-existing TextStructure to aid in the construction of the summaries of modifications of apassage.
Second, rather than fully automatic generation of summaries, we areexperimenting with ways that interactlon~rlth the author of a passage can aid inthe task.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThis work has been supported by the National Library of Medicine under Grant I-R01-LM03611.REFERENCESGrosz, B; Haas, N; Robbs, J; Martin, P; Moore, R; Robinson, J; Rosenseheln, S.1982.
"DIALOGIC, A Core Natural Language Processing System."
COLING 82:Proceedings of the Ninth International Conference o_~n Computational Lin~ulstlcs,Prague, Czechoslovakia.Grimes, J.
1975.
The Thread of Discourse.
The Hague: Houton.Robbs, JR. 1976.
A Computational Approach to Discourse Analysis.
ResearchReport 76-2, Department of Computer Sciences, City College, City University ofNew York (December 1976).Hobbs, JR. 1978.
Why Is Discourse Coherent?
Technical Note 176, SRIInternational, Menlo Park, Callfornia (November 1978).Hobbs, JR. 1980.
Interpreting " Natural Language Discourse.
Final Report,National Science Foundation Research Grant No.
MCS 78-07121 (July 1980).Lehnert, WG; Black, JB; Reiser, BJ.
1981.
"Summarizing Narratives."
Proceedingsof the Seventh Internatlonal Joint Conference on Artlflclal Intalli~encepp.184-189.
New Haven, Connecticutt: Yale University.Longacre, R. 1976.
An Anatom\[ of Speech" Notions.
Ghent: The Peter de RidderPress.Mandler, J; Johnson, N. 1977.
"~eme~nbrance of Things Parsed: Story Structure andRecall."
Cognitive Psycholo~y'9:l11-151.Rumelhart, D. 1975.
"Understanding and Summarizing Brief Stories."
In: BasicProcessing in Readln~_LPerception ~ and Comprehension, edited by D Laberge andS Samuels.
Hillsdale, New Jersey: Lawrence Erlbaum.132 J.R. HOBBS et alSager,  N. 1981.
Natura l  Language In format ion  Process ing:  A Co_~_puter Grammar ofEng l i sh  and I t s  App l i ca t ions .
Reading, Massachusetts :  Addison-Wesley.Schankj RC; Lebowltz, M; Birnhaum, L. 1980.
"'An Integrated Understander.
"American Journal of Computational Linguistics 6:13-30.Walker, D. 1982.
"Natural-Language-Access Systems and the Organization and Useof Information."
COLING 82: Proceedings of the Ninth International Conferenceo__nnComputatlonal Linguistics, Prague, Czechoslovakia.Walker, DE; Hobbs, JR. 1981.
"Natural Language Access to Medical Text.
"Proceedings of the Fifth Annual Symposium o_~n ~App l l ca t lons  in MedicalCare pp 269-273.
New York: IEEE.
