COLING 82, J. HoreckfJ (ed.
)North-Holland Publishing Corapa~,zy?
Academi~ 1982TULIPS-2 - NATURAL LANGUAGE LEARNING SYSTEMMichael G. MalkovskyComputational mathematics and Cybernetics FacultyMoscow State universityMoscowU.S.S.R.The learning of a natural language is consideredto be an important aspect of man-machine communi-cation in human language.
The methods of theRussian language knowledge representation andacquisition implemented in the experimental under-standing system TULIPS-2 are described.
Thesemethods provides for understanding utterancesthat contain words and structures unknown to thesystem wherther they are grammatical or erroneousitems, or the user's speech peculiarities.
~I n  recent  years  the  prob lem o f  man 'mach ine  communicat ion  by  meanso f  natura l  language (NL) i s  becoming  a pract i ca l  one .
And thedes igners  o f  " la rge"  app l ied  sys tems have  to  overcome new d i f f i -cu l t ies  in  o rder  to  make such  a communicat ion  a rea l i ty  and  toenab le  the  user  to  in teract  w i th  the  computer  w i thout  any  spec ia lt ra in ing  and  much e f fo r t ,  in  a way wh ich  i s  conv in ient  to  h im,but  not  to  the  computer .We think, that a so-called "restricted NL" is a mere fiction ofm: d. This term has been invented to denote a language used in acc tain problem-domain and based on a NL with great restrictionson ts structure.
In this case it would be more natural to use aspecial formal language, which can be quickly learned by the userand efficiently implemented.
On the other hand to learn the lexi-con and the grammar of the restricted NL and above all to followthese restrictions during a continuous dialogue with the systemis rather difficult for a human being.If NL is really needed, the user should be offered the conditionsof communication similar (from the information processing pointof view) to those in everyday discourse.
Firstly, the restric-tions, if any, should be minimized and naturally determined by theproblem-domain and by the nature of tasks.
Secondly, the "lis-tener" of the user should be able to understand the user correctlyin a certain situation even if the utterance is potentially am-bigious, incomplete, deviant or if it contains words and syntacticstructures unknown to the system whether they are grammatical orerroneous.
We contend that it is necessary to consider the de-viation from the language norms and other speech peculiarities ofthe user.
Thirdly, it should be possible for the system or forthe  user  to  suspend the i r  conversat ion  in  o rder  to  ask  the  par tnera quest ion  or  g ive  h im some adv ice .
However ,  the  spec i fy ing  d ia -logue  shou ld  not  occur  very  o f ten  and  "on  t r i f l es" .
F ina l ly ,  thesys tem - l i ke  i t s  human par tner  - shou ld  be  ab le  not  on ly  to  ac t191192 M.G.
MALKOVSKYin an unknown situation but to acquire mere knowledge, i.e.
tolearn the language and the user's speech peculiarities.The experimental system TULIPS (Malkovsky (1975)) and its newversion TULIPS-2 (Malkovsky and Volkeva (1981)) both were de-signed in consideration of the above-mentioned demands.The AI system TULIPS-2 implemented in PLANNER for the BESM-6computer is intended for further experiments in the field of thecomputer understanding of NL and for practical use.
The systemcan help the user to form the conditions of a problem.
In thiscase the user gives the system the unformalized description of theproblem situation, whereas the system helps to specify this de-scription and to find an adequate formal representation.
Such aflexible dialogue using vague terms and loose concepts can beccnviniently performed just in a NL (Russian - for TULIPS-2).~oreover the TULIPS-2 system can work in problem-domains withvarious structures and degrees of formalization.
That is anotherargument for the use of NL.A user's interaction with the system (via a terminal) is com-posed of several seances.
At the begining of each seance the userhave to identify himself and to indicate the problem-domain.
Thisinformstion guides the "tuning" of the system for the ~eance, i.e.fetching the relevant data from the external memory.
This helpsto reduce data used in conversation.
On the other hand the tuningprocess introduces the user's speech peculiarities and specific NLitems of the problem-domain.
During the analysis of utterancesthese peculiarities and items are looked through before all theother data (lexical, syntactic, and semantic).Besides, there are the following methods of data representationand handling in the system: special tags define the measure ofpreferability of relevant data items and procedures and influencethe order of their choise during analysis; the lexical items andthe grammar rules contain the references to procedures that can beinvoked when an item or rule is being handled; NL meta-levelitems describe the means and range of the Russian language rulesalternation by the system; NL knowledge of the system includesboth basic knowledge of the Russian language and "open" set ofRussian grammar rules, Russian lexical items etc., that can bewidened in a seance by the user or by the system itself ("self-taeching")oIt should be noted that the basic knowledge is formed and inputinto the system by its authors or by its operators beforehand.Thus in a seance the system starts to learn NL, to acquire user'sspeech peculiarities, new terms and abbreviations having muchknowledge of NL which make it possible for the system to act inunknown situations by itself.
However, change of basic knowledgecan be done only with user's permission?The methods of representation and handling of NL knowledge areimportant to the system's analyzer which provides for the inputmessage understanding from the context of the conversation.
Syn-tactic, semantic, and pragmatic predictions are widely used ondifferent levels of analysis.
The predictions generated fromcontext make it possible to attribute the expected (predicted)characteristics to unknown units, while the references to pro-cedural elements provide for a flexible control, i.e.
the pos-TULIPS-2 - NATURAL LANGUAGE LEARNING SYSTEM 193sibility of passing on to a more informative (where predictionsare more definite) level of analysis.If necessary the analyzer appeales to the meta-level knowledge -invokes procedures which handle unknown units (words or phrases).These procedures classify such a unit (erroneous form of a knownunit or an unknown correct unit) and prepare the information of aunit or an error for storing.
The stored information is availableboth in this seance and in the subsiquent ones.Sometimes a deviant form can be passed on to further higher levelsof analysis, as e.g.
the module of spelling correction does.
Thismodule processes errors typical for the user working at the ter-minal (the missing, duplication, permutation of letters or anincorrect shift).
However, usuall~ as the result of learning(self-teaching or teaching by user) new items are formed and theold items are changed.
The following item types are formed andchanged: NL words and phrases descriptions - lexical items andgrammar rules, NL meta-level items, control structures - tags andprocedures (e.g.
special patterns for frequent and typicalphrases).The methods of learning on morphological and lexical levels ofRussian have been used in the TULIPS-2 system since 1980.
Thebasic knowledge for these levels includes: a complete descriptionof Russian inflexion, a description of some rules of Russian word-formation and of different typical mistakes made by users, a vo-cabulary of about 1000 stems, and vocabularies of affixes.REFERENCES1 Malkovsky, M.G., TULIPS - Teachable, Understanding NaturalLanguage Problem-Solver, in Proc.
of the 4th IJCAI (Tbilisi, ~1975) ?2 Malkovsky, M.G.
and Volkova, I.A., TULIPS-2 Analyzer.
Mor-phological level, Vestnik Moskovskogo Universiteta, SeriesXV, N I (1981) 70-76.
