COLING 82, J. Horeckp (ed.
)North.Holland Publishing Company?
Academia, 1982ANALYSIS AND PROCESSING OF COMPACT TEXTElaine Marsh and Naomi SagerLinguistic String ProjectNew York UniversityNew York, New YorkU.S.A.This paper describes the characteristics of compact text asrevealed in computer analysis of a set of physician notes.Computer processing of the documents was performed using theLSP system for natural language analysis.
A numerical break-down of syntactic and semantic patterns found in the textsis pre~ented.
It is found that four major properties ofcompact text make it possible to process the content of thedocuments with syntactic procedures that operate on fullfree text.INTRODUCTIONLinguistic mechanisms of compacting are common in situations where specialists re-cord facts to be used by others in the same field.
Compact text is found in notesand records within institutions (i), and in network messages among collaborators.It is found in a different form in everyday dialogue (2), and in headings andheadlines (3).
(i) Positive for heart disease and diabetes.
(2) Q: How are you?Ri Fine.
(3) REAGAN NAMES WOMAN JUSTICESimilar shortened forms also occur in published research protocols and non-numerictables (as in building codes, geological surveys).The NYU Linguistic String Project has developed a computer program to analyze andprocess the compact text of specialized technical areas, using a general parsingprogram and English grammar augmented by procedures specific to the given subjectarea \[1,2\].
In particular, the system has been tailored for the computer analysisof free-text medical records \[3\].
The note-taking style of medical records \[4\]uses a remarkable amount of reduced English sentence forms.
For instance, in thedocuments reported on here, 49% of occurrences were incomplete sentences.
Similartypes of reductions have been described in other technical sublanguages \[5\].
Inthis paper, we report the results of using the LSP processor to obtain a precisedescription of the syntactic and semantic properties of a body of compact text.DATA ANDMETHODS OF ANALYSISThe data of this study consist of eight medical discharge summaries, each 1-2 pagesin length.
These physician reports were dictated and then transcribed by a medicaltypist into computer readable form.
As a preliminary to machine processing, therewas minimal pre-editing of the documents for such necessary formatting changes as201202 E. MARSH and N. SAGERinserting a blank between a word and its following punctuation mark and occasionalspelling corrections.
Abbreviations were maintained as used in the text and weretreated as dictionary entries linked to their full form in the dictionary.A computer dictionary of the document words was obtained by look-up in the medicalparsing dictionary developed by the LSP, which was augmented for new words appear-ing in these texts.
The dictionary classifies words according to their major partsof speech (e.g.
noun, verb, adjective), as well as certain English subclasses (e.g.plural, past) and special medical subfield classes.
The medical classes are basedon cooccurrence properties of the words as seen in a larger survey of the materialand are checked for semantic consistency by a physician-consultant.
In total, themedical classes currently number sixty-six.
These are used in selectional con-straints applied during parsing to resolve syntactic ambiguities.
A smaller setof eighteen medical classes determine the major semantic sentence types discussedbelow.
Descriptions of the 18 medical classes are given in Table i, drawn from\[6\], where all the medical classes are defined and details of the text processingprocedure are described.The input sentences from the discharge summaries are structured by a three stagesystem of (i) parsing, (2) syntactic regularizat~on: and (3) mapping into aninformation format.The first step is to parse the document sentences with the Linguistic String Proj-ect parser \[7\].
This step begins with a dictionary lookup to associate the storedlexical information with each word occurrence im the sentence.
The parsing uti-lizes a medical ly tuned grammar, which includes productions for the compact sen-tence syntactic types discussed below, and also productions for special sublanguageconstructions (e.g.
dose expressions, penici l lamine 250 MG PO (~D_).
The sentenceparse identifies grammatical relations which hold among parts of the sentence,principally subject-verb-object relations and host-modif ier relations.
Also builtinto the grammar is a selectional mechanism which disambiguates mult iply classi-fied words based on the type of subject-verb-object or host-modif ier relationshipspermitted in the sublanguage \[8\].The second step is syntactic regularization.
Each sentence undergoes a series ofparaphrastic English transformations regularizing the syntax within the sentencesin order to reduce the variety of syntactic structures to a set of basic syntacticrelations \[ 9 \].
The syntactic regularization does not alter the information con-tent of the sentences.
In addition, reduced word forms, such as abbreviations,are replaced by their full forms.The final processing step is information formatting, which maps the words of theparsed, transformed sentence into a tabular representation of the information con-tained in the sentences.
A word is mapped into the format column which correspondsto the information content of the word.
In general, there is a l-to-i correspon-dence between the sublanguage word class and a particular format column.
Forexample, a word of the medical class DIAG(nosis), e.g.
r a e ~ ,  would be mappedinto the DIAG column of the format.
Formatting is based on cooccurrence patternsfound in the text and on the lexical information obtained from the computer dic-tionary of medical vocabulary.
The sets of filled format columns represent thesemantic patterns found within the data.
These semantic patterns wil l  be dis-cussed below.The data was run on the LSP natural language processing system as implemented inFORTRAN and run on a Control Data 6600, requiring about 75,000 words of memory.The LSP system also runs on the CDC C~ER,  the VAX, and UNIVAC ii00 machines.
TheEnglish grammar, regularlzation component, and information formatting componentare written in Restrict ion Language, a special high level language developed forwriting natural language grammars.B-FUNCB-MEASB-PARTEXAMDEVELDESCRDIAGINSTLAB-RESMEDNORMPTQUANTS-STESTV-MANAGEV-RESPONDV-TREATANALYSIS AND PROCESSING OF COMPACT TEXTdescription of body-functions,hearing, movement.standard body-measures,~ ,  temperature, blood ~ressure.location of test or symptom,han___dd, ~ ,test or technique performed during physical exampercussion, hear (rales).patient growth word,~ ,  ub~,  birth.neutral descriptor term,ely_~!pw, fla____~t, pale.diagnosis word,meningitis, sickle cell disease.institution, clinic, or doctor,emergency room, hematology, local doctor.result of laboratory test or culture, generallycontains agent words,pneumococcus type 18, a th~.medication or specific treatment,penicillin, ampicillin, transfusion.word indicating normalcy or change towards normalcy,normal, ~ ,  convalesce, improvement.patientnumerical quantifier, possibly with unit.non-normal sign or symptom,crisi_____~s, cold, headache.laboratory test, including x-rays, chemistry,bacteriology, and hematology,x-ra\[, urinalysis, hematocrit.general patient management,admission, folo______ww, ~ ,  decision.patient or symptom response word,respond to, controlled by.general treatment verb or noun,treatmen___~t, ~ .203Table iMedical Word Subclasses204 E. MARSH and N. SAGERRESULTSIn a test set of narrative hospital discharge summaries that were computer-parsed,49% of the sentences were syntactically incomplete sentence forms ("fragments").The fragments were of six types that can be related to full sentence forms on thebasis of the elements which were regularly deleted: (i) deleted verb and object(or subject and verb), leaving a noun phrase (4); (ii) deleted tense and verb b__ee(5); (iii) deleted subject, tense, and verb be (6); (iv) deleted subj'ect (7);(v) deleted subject, tense, and verb be (passive predicate) (8); and (vi) deletedsubject, tense, and verb be (infinitival complement) (9).
(4) Stiff neck and fever.
(63%)(5) Brain scan negative.
(22%)(6) Positive for heart disease and diabetes.
(8%)(7) Was seen by local doctor.
(5%)(8) Treated for meningitis.
(2%)(9) To be followed in hematology clinic.
(i instance = .08%)Viewing these fragments as deletion forms, it is possible to fill them out to fullsentences that would be accepted as paraphrastic by "native speakers" of medicallanguage.
For example, occurrences (4)-(9) can be related to sentences (10)-(15)respectively.
(i0) Patient had stiff neck and fever.
(ii) Brain scan was negative.
(12) Patlent/test/exam \[depending on context\] ispositive for heart disease.
(13) Patient was seen by local doctor.
(14) Patient was treated for meningitis.
(15) Patient is to be followed in hematology clinic.In a set of 8 analyzed hospital discharge summaries, we found 41 cooccurrence pat-terns of the subject-verb-object (SVO) type, stated in terms of 18 participatingword classes.
(There were further patterns of the host-modifier type and somelarger patterns involving connective between SVO types.)
The SVO patterns couldbegrouped into six more general types by defining a "superclass" (RESULT) con-sisting of the classes SIGN-SYMPTOM, LAB-RES, QUANT, NORMALCY, DIAGNOSIS, andDESCRIPTION that occurred with one of the subject classes PATIENT, BODY-P#~T,TEST.
For example, sentence (5) is of the type TEST RESULT, where scan is thename of a test (occurring with BODY-PART word brain as modifier), and ~ (inthe class NORMALCY in the superclass RESULT) is the finding of the test.
Examplesof the sentence patterns are provided in Table 2.CONCLUSIONSThe computer results presented above, considered along with manual analysis ofother document sets, lead to several major conclusions about the characteristicso f  compact text:I.
Repetitive ungranmlaticality is grarmnatical for the text set.Within a given set of data, there are recurrent ungrammatical constructions.These forms can be characterized and made a part of the parsing grammar.
Thedepartures from grammaticality are limited and can be related in a regular way tofull sentente types in English.II.
Word choice is quasi-grammatical.In repetitive single-topic text, word subclasses that are specific to the subjectANALYSIS AND PROCESSING OF COMPACT TEXTTABLE 2: Medical Semantic PatternsPATTERNI (22%) B-PART + TEST V RESULT = {LAB-RES/NORM/QUANT/S-S/DIAG/DESCR}LAB-RES H. Influenzae type B from CSF.NORM Spinal fluid was negative.QUANT Hematocrit 22.6 percent.S-S Chest x-rays suggest pleural effusion.DIAG Chest x-rays revealed bilateral pneumonia.205II (53%) EXAM/FUNCTION VB-PARTB-FUNCB-MEASB-PART-EXAMDIAGNORMDESCRNORMS-SQUANTNORMDESCRNORMS-SQUANTDIAGS-SNORMDESCRRESULT (excluding LAB-RES)S-S Developed swollen hands; Abdomen showed noorganomegaly.Lingular pneumonia.ENT negative; Lungs clear.Conjunctivae were pale.Appetite is good; She slept well; Eating well.Pain on dorsif lexion of left foot.Temp 99.6, Pulse 120, Respiration Rate 16,Weight 19.5 ibs.Temp normal.Low grade temp finally cleared.DTR's are normal.Heart murmur heard; Slight tenderness to touch,Liver palpable 6 cm.Meningitis; Has sickle cell disease.Patient began to vomit; Patient developedmild cold.She remained well; Pt had a complete recovery.Patient was active; Occasionally rubs hands.III (2%) DEVEL RESULTNORMS-SDESCRQUANTWell developed; Growth and development ofpatient was normal.Pt is product of complicated pregnancy.Delivery was spontaneous.Product of gravida i0 para 9 pregnancy.IV (9%) INST V-MANAGE (DIAG/S-S}DIAGS-Sist admission to BH for meningitis.She was seen in Emergency Room because of atemp of 105.To be followed in hematology; Seen inPediatric Emergency Service.V (13%) (INST) V-TREAT-with MED Treatment with ampicill in; Partial exchangetransfusion Was given; Was given phenobarbitol;Resume prophylactic penici l l in orally;VI (1%) {PT/S-S} V-RESPOND-to MEDPT She responded well to penicillin.S-S Seizures were controlled by valium.Notes: i) Examples for each pattern are il lustrative, not exhaustive.2) In many cases B-PART word, TEST word are deleted when reconstructablefrom context, e.g.
CSF grew out pneumococeus = CSF culture grew outpneumococcus.3) Mention of PATIENT is omitted in Patterns I-V.4) Key: ( ) = optional element{ } = choice of one among elements in braces206 E. MARSH and N. SAGERmatter are found in particular combinations.
These patterns are so marked thatdeviations can be considered ungrammatical for the discourse.
For example, inmedical records, (16) would be possible, while (17) would not.
(16) Patient admitted to hospital on 11/5/81.
(17) *Meningitis admitted to hospital on 11/5/81,III.
Deletions are reconstructable.Deletions are recon~tructable on the basis of both syntax and regularity of sub-class patterning.
It was seen above that deleted (reconstructable) elements areeither function words known to be deleted in other English'forms (e.g.
be), or?
distinguished words of the sublanguage (e.g.
~ ) .IV.
Texts are convergent.While it would be improper to say "when you've seen one, you've seen them all,"compact te~ts within a given area are remarkably similar.
In the set of eightdocuments referred to above, six generalized semantic patterns occurred in thefirst document processed.
No new types were recognized in the remaining sevendocuments.On'the lexical level, while new vocabulary is found in each new document (so-called "seepage"), this tends to taper off.
In a prior study of journal articles,it was found that sees,age after the 7th article remained at about 20%.
In theprocessing of medical records, we found that, when changing from one medical sub-field to another, the new vocabulary in a set of documents containing 2200 dis-tinct lexical items was 27%.The above four properties of compact text: grammaticallty despite syntactic de-viation, regular patterning of subject-specific vocabulary, recoverable deletions,and convergence as new texts are analyzed, make it possible to process the contentof documentS with syntactic procedures that operate on the full free text.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThis research was supported in part by National Science Foundation grant numberIST79-20788 from the Division of Information Science and Technology, and in partby National Library of Medicine grant number I-ROI-LM03933 awarded by the NationalInstitutes of Health, Department of Health and Human Services.REFERENCES1.
Sager, N. (1981).
Natural Language Information Processing: A Computer Grammarof English and Its Applications.
Addison-Wesley, Reading, Massachusetts.2.
Sager, N. (1978).
Natural Language Information Formatting.
Adv.
Comput.
17,(M.C.
Yovits, ed.
), 89-162.
Academic Press, New York.3.
Hirschman, L. and N. Sager (1982).
Automatic Information Formatting of a Medi-cal Sublanguage.
Sublanguage: Studies of Language in Restricted Semantic De-mains (R?
Kittredge and J. Lehrberger, eds.).
Walter de Gruyter, Berlin.4.
Anderson, B., Bross, I.D.J.
and N. Sager (1975).
Grammatical Compression inNotes and Records.
Am.
J. Comput.
Linguist.
2:4.5.
Lehrberger, J.
(1982).
Automatic Translation and the Concept of Sublanguage.Sub lan_g~ (as in ref.
3, above).6.
Sager, N. and L. Hirschman (1978).
Information Structures in the Language ofScience.
String Program Repts.
12.
Linguistic String Project, New York Univ.7.
Grishman, R., Sager, N., Raze, C. and B. Bookchin (1973).
The Linguistic StringParser.
Prec.
1973 Nat.
Comput.
Conf., 427-434, AFIPS Press, Montvale, N.J.8.
Grishman, R., Hirschman, L., and Friedman, C. (1982).
Natural Language Inter-faces Using Limited Semantic Information.
Prec.
9th Int.
Conf.
Comput.
Ling.9.
Hobbs, J. and R. Grishman (1976).
The Automatic Transformational Analysis ofEnglish Sentences.
Int.
J. Comput.
Math., Sect.
A, Vol.
5, pp.
267-283.
