COI~G 82..I.
Horeck~ {~ )North-Holland Pub~ Comply?
Aoa~ 1982PRAGMATIC8  IN BPEECH HNDERHTANDING - REV IS ITEDAstrid BrietzmannLehrstuhl fuer Informatik5 (Mustererkennung)Univ.
Erlangen-Nuernberg, Erlangen, FRGGuenther GoerzRRZEUniv.
Erlangen-Nuernberg, Erlangen, FRGandNeuropsychiatric InstituteUCLA, Los Angeles, Calif., USAThis paper reflects some thoughts on" pra@matic~ in'thecontext of a Speech Understanding'.System which i scur rent ly  deve loped at the Un ivers i ty  E r langen-Nuernberg.
After a brief outline of  the system,s ~struc-ture with an emphasis on the characteristics of theparser and the knowledge representation scheme we pre-sent some of the underlying theoretical considerations.The main part of the paper describes the design criteriafor the SEMANTICS, PRAGMATICS, and DIALOG modules, andthe structure of their interactions within a generaldiscourse understanding framework, in particular the.role of a user/task model.1~ The Erlangen Speech Understanding SystemAn experimental expert system for understanding continuous Germanspeech is being developed at the Computer Science Department(Lehrstuhl Informatik 5, Mustererkennung), University Erlangen-Nuernberg \[8\].
Its main characteristics can be summarized as:- blackboard-oriented architecture (see \[5\]),- modularity through separate knowledge sources for ACOUSTICS-PHONETICS, LEXICON, SYNTAX, SEMANTICS, PRAGMATICS, DIALOG,RETRIEVAL, and STRATEGY,- ease of reconfiguration through clearly specified interfaces,so that modules can easily be exchanged,- parallelism (currently simulated),- ability to conduct flexible, adaptive dialogs featuring mixedinitiative, interpretation of indirect answers, resolution ofanaphoric references, handling of f ragments(e l l ipses)  andapplication specific dialog schemata and strategies,-.experimental in order to gain data on its performance and onits linguistic and epistemological adequacy which in turn canb~ used to calibrate the knowledge sources, in particular thestrategy involved.In the following we concentrate on the higher level components;SEXANTICS, PRAGMATICS, and DIALOG, which in principle constltute49150 A. BRIETZMANN and G. GOERZparal le l ,  in teract ing  processes.
As prerequ is i tes  for that weoutline briefly the parser and the general underlying knowledgerepresentation scheme.GLP: ~ parser.
In our view syntactic knowledge plays an importantrole in natural language understanding.
We agree with Bobrow andWebber \[2\] that there is a significant type of utterance descrip-t ion which is determined  by syntact ic  features  and categor ies ,and, part ia l ly ,  also by order ing  in format ion.
E lements  of thisdescription are used to guide semantic, pragmatic, and discourselevel  recovery  processes,  wh ich  in turn provide a feedback  tosyntact ic  analysis.
Such processes include interpretat ion ,anaphora  resolut ion,  focus tracking, and e l l ips is  resolut ion.Syntax  gets  a f i r s t  cut in the log ica l  s t ruc ture  of theutterance.GLP \[6\] internally provides itself a mult iprocessing scheme.
Ituses two central  data structures,  the Chart - an act ive Wel l -Formed Subst r ing  Table -, and the Agenda - a l ist of processes,which allows task centered scheduling.
The whole parsing processis controlled by a monitor, which triggers a grammar rule inter-~ reter.
Its l ingu is t ic  data base cons ists  of a lex icon and a funct ional )  g rammar  (see 2).
GLP's spec ia l  features  for speechanalys is  include d i rec t ion - independent  is land parsing,  theab i l i ty  to deal w i th  gaps in the input u t terance  and to handlequality scores for word and phrase hypotheses as well as incre-mental parsing by tying syntactic and semantic process ingc lose lytogether.
The se lect ion  of tasks is contro l led  by a Scheduler ,which realizes a flexible strategy, so that bottom-up or top-downprocess ing  are not character i s t i c  for the analys is  as a whole,but only for parts of it.The knowledge  representat ion  scheme.
The under ly ing  knowledgerepresentation scheme, which will be used throughout the higherleve l  modu les  of the sys tem,  can be character i zed  by  thefundamenta l  d i s t inc t ions  of schema (prototype), ac tua l i za t ion(instance), and man i fes ta t ion  ( s i tuat ion -dependent  embedding) .Basically it is equivalent to an active semantic network with aclear separation of intension (general conceptual taxonomy) andextens ion  (s i tuat ion descr ipt ions) .
Its e lementary  Units orFrames representing Concepts are supposed to cover mainly threeaspects for their attributes :- the role, which des ignates  the attr ibute's  funct ion  in theconcept,- restrictions on possible values for the attribute,- modality, which indicates the importance of the attribute forthe concept.The system i tsel f  incorporates  reason ing  capab i l i t i es  wi th  anemphasis on property inheritance and default reasoning.
Currentlywe are exper iment ing  wi th  two d i f ferent  approaches:  FRL \[11\],wh ich  is a l ready avai lable,  and a new system in the spir i t  of KL-ONE \[3\], which is currently being implemented.The app l i ca t ion  domain.
The f irst domain  of d iscourse to whichspeech unders-t-~1~ri-~ system will be applied, is travel plan-ning within the West German Intercity train system.
This particu-PRAGMATICS IN SPEEC~I UNDEI~TANDING-REVISITED 51lar application area was chosen as it can easily be expanded fromrather simple question, answering on time tables and train connec-t ions to more complex aspects  of discourse, inc luding p lanningand problem solving.2.
Some Theoret i ca l  Cons iderat ionsThe genera l  p r inc ip le  o f  our  approach  can  be character i zed  as"pragmat ics  first", i.e.
we see the task of natural  languageunderstanding from the viewpoint of communication as acting andinteracting (see Kambartel 49\]).
This implies that the underlyinggrammar  model  ought to be a funct iona l  one \[4, 10\], i.e., thatthe recovery of the st ructure of a natural  language ut terancemust be seen as part of a larger process of ana lyz ing themeaning, intentions,  and goals under ly ing  its generat ion.
Inpart icular,  we adopt Hal l iday's taxonomy of the funct ions oflanguage:- ideational, as related to the expression of content,- interpersonal, as related to the purpose of an utterance,- textual, as related to the coherence of language use.The structure of the d ic t ionary  with regard to these aspectsrepresents- syntact i c  in fo rmat ion :  word  c lasses ,  morpho log ica linformation, valencies as structuring syntactic informationin relation to functional attributes,- semant lc /p ragmat ic  informat ion:  word mean ings  (based on asystem of semantic primitives), case frames (with obligatoryand opt ional  at t r ibutes like agent, object, etc.
), andrestrictions (also to be used as expectations).3- Textual Interpretation: SERANTICSWhereas the  parser's faci l it ies.for mapping structural descrip-tions into functional attributes are limited to matching opera-tions, in terpretat ion  requires reasoning.
Based on purelylinguistic knowledge, textual interpretation is the genuine taskof the SEMANTICS module, which has to build general, situation-independent meaning structures.
It provides content analysis bymeans of inferences using lexical semantic knowledge and applyingcase grammar rules as well as considering the cotext, i.e., thelinguistic environment of the utterance.We make use of valency properties of the head words, especiallythe main verb as an intermediary level between surface structureand the under ly ing  case structure, thus fo l low ing  an extendednot ion of Tesniere's dependency theory \[12S.
Va lency does notonly determine a typ~ical syntact ic  complement-structure for thegovern ing words, e.g., ca l l ing for dependent noun groups andprepositional groups in certain surface cases; it also suppliescr i ter ia  for proper t reatment  of prepos i t iona l  phrases andmodifier placement.Bes ides the reve lat ion of the under ly ing  pred icate -arguments~ructure, SEMANTICS' main tasks are word-sense disam~iguatiQnQ$2 A. BRIETZMANN and G. GOERZand, in addit ion,  hand l ing  quant i f i ca t ion  and dea l ing  w i thgeneral spatial and temporal concepts on the level of words, i.e.w i thout  re fer r ing  to factual  knowledge.
In detai l ,  it has toenforce- construction of dependency structures and their evaluation bychecking their constituents for semantic compatibil ity,- analysis of the type and the modality of th~ utterance,- t rans format ion  of dependency  s t ructures  into a canonica lform, e.g., by complet ing  the propos i t ion  in in f in i t iveclauses, or converting passive sentences to active form,- ins tant ia t ion  of case f rames  over va lency  s t ructures  bytest ing  the se lect iona l  res t r i c t ions  imposed on the caseslots.The parser's s t rategy is to be mod i f ied  in such a way that seman-tic analysis at the constituent level can be started as soon as alocal  const i tuent  is syntact i ca l l y  recognized.
The resul ts  ofthis interpretation step are semantic hypotheses containing pre-d ic t ions .
The parser  then  has to ver i fy  these  i s landssyntactically, to expand them and to concatenate them with otherislands.4- Contextual Interpretation: PEAGMATICS and DIALOGThe PRAGMATICS  and DIALOG modules  provide the second step ininterpreting an utterance.
The task of the PRAGMATICS module isto spec ia l i ze  case st ructures  into task spec i f ic  assoc ia t ions t ructures  w i th in  the domain  of discourse.
These in turn areresolved and embedded into the d ia log context  by the D IALOGmodule.As mentioned above, we view language understanding as understan-ding goa l -d i rec ted  action, in this case speech acts.
People ingenera l  are capable of fo rming  and execut ing  plans to achievegoals and to infer plans of other agents by observat ion.
Hence,the PRAGMATICS module has to analyze the speaker's intentions, inparticular- to establish points of correspondence between the speaker'sand its own knowledge of the world,- to draw in ferences which  the speaker  intends the hearer  todraw, and- to match those with the particular domain of discourse.This knowledge on objects, events and abstractions is representedin a group of schemata, which define the concepts of time, space,causality, goals and plans in their pragmatic dimension, i.e.
intheir relation to acting.
In addition, a second group of schematathen provides the necessary domain specific knowledge, largely byspec ia l i z ing  the genera l  knowledge  and augment ing  it byparticular knowledge about acting in the application domain.
ThePHAGMATICS  modu le  const ructs  a task model  by s tar t ing  wi th  adescription of the actual s i tuat io~-~d--a-~ni t ia l  goal, which isref ined dur ing the fo l low ing  conversat ion  by knowledge  aboutPRAGMATICS IN SPEECH UNDERSTANDING-REVISITED 53actions, in particular their (pre)conditions and effects.
As theconversation goes on, .it builds a plan in terms of a sequence ofact ions to t rans form the descr ip t ion  of the s i tuat ion into thedesired goal state.
There are standard techniques for construct-ing plans like backward  chaining, but they do not provide aso lut ion to a wide class of act ions which can be descr ibed innatural  language (like standing still, prevent ing something,execut ing s impler  act ions in paral lel ,  etc.).
To cover thesephenomena,  a tempora l  logic must be incorporated into the taskmodel schema \[lJ.
Defining actions by using knowledge about howthey can be performed is not sufficient to define their meaning,in particular with regard to the tasks the PRAGMATICS module hasto achieve:- understanding the speaker's intention(s),- reasoning about its understanding in order to act, in parti-cular by  spec i fy ing all ( inc luding impl ic i t)  in fo rmat ionwhich f s  required to react appropriately (and smartly), and- situation dependent resolution of references.Considering what has been mentioned about our general approach onspeech acts, PRAGMATICS has to interact closely with the DIALOGmodule, which incorporates knowledge about communication situa-t ions ( l ingu is t i c -pragmat ic  context, immediate processing con-text, psychological context) and standard patterns of discourse(convent ions  for in teract ions ,  reason ing  and estab l i sh ingcoherence), augmented by a second level of schemata which specifythese with regard to the chosen domain of discourse.
Using thisknowledge, DIALOG has- t~  draw inferences from the context, and- to draw inferences on the current state of the speaker,includihg his knowledge,in order to construct  and mainta in  a user model.
This model,start ing with a rough idea of standard d iscourse schemata  andtechniques tr ies to understand and to guide the speaker bysuccess ive re f inements  through bu i ld ing d iscourse plans toachieve a sat i s factory  conc lus ion of the dialog.
On the otherhand, these plans are supposed to influence the overall behaviorof the whole system in a larger range of interaction steps, e.g.with respect to its adaptivity and flexibility.The very s imi lar  layout and the proposed close interact ionbetween PRAGMATICS and DIALOG were influenced by results on task-or iented dialogs \[7\], wh ich  state a para l le l i sm between thedia log and the structure of a problem solution.
This in turnshould a l low the reso lut ion  of most of the references and acontextua l  res t r i c t ion  w i th in  cer ta in  log ica l ly  andmethodo log ica l ly  character ized subdia logs (see the detai leddiscussion in Webber \[13\]).Indeed, the main d i f ference between both components  is in thekind of knowledge they represent and use, not in their  methods ofreasoning.
The main contribution of the PRAGMATICS module to thewhole understanding process can be paraphrased as a specializa-tion of the general "referential potentiality" (lexical meaning)54 A. BRIETZMANIq and G. GOERZof utterances into a particular thematic framework whereas theDIALOG module  prov ides a spec ia l i za t ion  with regard to adiscourse framework, i.e.
to knowledge how to conduct a success-ful dialog.References\[1\]\[2\]\[3\]\[4\]\[5\]\[8\]\[6\]\[7\]\[9\]\[10\]\[11\]\[12\]\[13\]Allen, J.F., What's Necessary to Hide?
: Modeling ActionVerbs, in: Proceedings of the 19th Annual Conference of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics (Stanford, 1981).Bobrow, R.J. and Webber, B.L., Some Issues in Parsing andNatural Language Understanding, in: Proceedings of the 19thAnnual Conference of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (Stanford, 1981).Brachman, R., On the Epistemological Status of SemanticNetworks, in: Findler, N.V.
(ed.
), Associative Networks.Representation and Use of Knowledge by Computers (AcademicPress, New York, 1979).Dik, S., Functional Grammar (North-Holland, Amsterdam 1978).Erman, L., The HEARSAY-II Speech-Understanding System:Integrating Knowledge to Resolve Uncertainty, ComputingSurveys (12) 1980, 213-253.Goerz, G., GLP: A General Linguistic Processor, in:Proceedings of the Seventh International Joint Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence (Vancouver, 1981).Grosz, B., The Structure of Task Oriented Dialogs, in:Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Speech Recognition(Pittsburgh, 1977).Hein, H.-W., Niemann, H., Expert Knowledge for AutomaticUnderstanding of Continuous Speech, in: Kunt, M. and deCoulon, F.
(eds.
), S ignal  Process ing:  Theor ies  andApplications (North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1980).Kambartel, F., Pragmatische Grundlagen der Semantik, in:Gethmann, C.F.
(ed.
), Theorie des wissenschaftlichen Argu-mentierens (Suhrkamp Theorie, Frankfurt, 1980).Kay, M., Functional Grammar, in: Proceedings of the FifthAnnual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society(Berkeley, 1979).Roberts, R.B., Goldstein, I.P., The PRL Manual, AI Memo 431,MIT (June 1977).Tesniere, L., Elements de syntaxe struc~urale (Klincksieck,Paris, 1965).Webber, B.L., Description Formation and Discourse ModelSynthesis, in: Waltz, D.L.
(ed.
), Theoretical Issues inNatural Language Processing-2 (Univ.
of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 1978).
