COLING 82, ~ HoreckS, (eft.
)North-Holland Pub ~hing Company?
Academ~ 1982CONVERSION OF A FRENCH SURFACEEXPRESSION INTO ITS SEMANTIC REPRESENTATIONACCORDING TO THE RESEDA METALANGUAGEJacgueline L~onCentre National de la Recherche Scientif lqueLaboratoire d'Informatique pour les Sciences de l'HommeParis, FranceDaniel MemmiCentre National de la Recherche Scientif iqueLaboratoire d'Informatique pour la M~canique et les Sciences de l ' Ing4nieurOrsay, FranceMonique OrnatoCentre National de la Recherche Scientif iqueEquipe de Recherche sur l 'Humanisme Franqais des XIVe et XVe siaclesParis, FranceJoanna PomianUniversit~ de Paris ICentre National de la Recherche Sclentif iqueEquipe de Recherche sur le traitement automatique de l 'histolre du Bas Moyen-AgeParis, FranceGian Piero ZarrlCentre National de la Recherche Sc ient i f iqueLaboratoire d' Informatique pour les Sciences de l'Ho~EaeParis, FranceThe work we describe here is a prel iminary study concerningthe automatic translation of natura l language statementsinto the RESEDA semantic metalanguage.
A first stage of theprocedure consists in marking the "triggers", defined aslexical units which call upon one  or more of the predicativepatterns al lowed for in the metalanquage.
The predicativepatterns obtained are then merged, and their case slotsfil led with the elements found in surface structure accordingto the predict ions associated with the slots.INTRODUCTION1 The work that we intend to present here is a prel iminary study concerning theautomatic translation of natural language statements - which describe thebiographies of historical personages taken into account by the RESEDA system -into the RESEDA semantic metalanguage.The RESEDA project itself concerns the creation and practical exploitation of adatabase containing the biographies of historical personages of the late MiddleAges in France.
The most important characteristic of the system'l ies in thepossibi l i ty of using inference procedures to question the database about causalrelationships which may exist between the different recorded facts, and whichare not expl icit ly declared at the time of data entry (Zarri 1979, 1981)'.183 .~;  .184 J. LEON et aLTHE RESEDA METALANGUAGEThe biographical information which constitutes the system's database is organizedin the form of units called "planes".
There are several different types of plane ;the "predicative planes", the most important, correspond to a "flash" which illus-trates a particular moment in the "life story" of one or more personages.
Apredicative plane is made up of one of five possible "predicates" (BE-AFFECTED-BY,BEHAVE, BE-PRESENT, MOVE, PRODUCE) ; to each predicate, one or more "modulators"may be attached.
The modulator's function is to specify and delimit the semanticrole of the predicate.
Each predicate is accompanied by "case slots" whichintroduce the predicative arguments ; dating and space location is also givenwithin a predicative plane, as is the bibl iographic authority for the statement.Predicative planes can be linked together in a number of ways ; one way is to useexplicit links of "coordination", "alternative", "causality", "finality", "condi-tion", etc.
(Zarri et al 1977).For example, the data "Andr4 Marchant was named provost of paris by the King'sCouncil on 22nd September 1413 ; he lost his post on 23rd October 1414, to thebenefit of Tanguy du Ch~tel, who was granted this office", will be represented inthree planes - that of the nomination of Andr~ Marchant, his dismissal and thenomination of Tanguy du Ch~tel.
The coding of information must be made on twodistinct levels: an "external" coding, realized manual ly by the analyst, givesrise to a first type of representation, formalized according to the categories ofthe RESEDA metalanguage ; a second automatic step results in the "internal"numeric code.
The external "manual" coding of the three events just stated willbe the following:I) begin+soc+BE-AFFECTED-BY SUBJ Andr~-MarchantOBJ provost : ParisSOURCE king's-councildatel : 22-september-1413date2 :bibl: Demurgerl,2732) end+BE-AFFECTED-BY SUBJ Andr~-MarchantOBJ provost : Parisdatel : 23-october-1414date2 :bibl: Demurgerl,2733) begin+BE-AFFECTED-BY SUBJ Tanguy-du-Ch~telOBJ provost : Parisdatel : 23-october-1414date2 :bibl: Demurgerl,273The code in capital letters indicates a predicate and its associated "case slots".Every predicative plane is characterized by a pair of "time references" (datel-date2) which give the duration of the episode in question.
In these three planes,the second date slot (date2) is empty, because their modulators (begin, end)specify a change of state associated with a punctual event.
"Andr~-Marchant" and"Tanguy-du-Ch~tel" are historical personages known to the system ; "provost","king's-Council" and "letters-of-nomination" are terms of RESEDA's lexicon.
Theclassif ications associated with terms of the lexicon provide the major part ofthe system's socio-historical knowledge of the period.
"Paris" is the "locationof the object".
If the historical sources analysed gave us the exact causes ofthese events, we would introduce into the database the corresponding planes andassociate them with these three planes by an explicit link of type "CAUSE".CONVERSION INTO THE RESEDA METALANGUAGE 185DESCRIPTION OF THE METHOD USEDIn the field of the application of Artif icial Intell igence techniques to naturallanguage processing, from the very beginning, stress was put on the importance ofsemantic and pragmatic components.
In this framework, creating a formal represen-tation of the message carried by a surface expression is usual ly achieved by oneof two methods.The first, and most traditional, respects the usual progression of the threelevels of analysis, morphological, syntactic and semantic whilst combining theirresults in a final interpretation : for discussion, see for example Winograd(1972), Woods (1973), Marcus (1979), etc.Schank and Wilks, on the contrary, put forward the idea, which was subsequentlytaken up by many researchers, that a predominantly semantic analysis, with syntaxrelegated to a secondary role, was possible.
The deep structure representationthat is being created is thus used to make appropriate predict ions about thelogico-semantic function of the elements ; these expectations are progressivelymet during the examination of the surface structure representation, see Schank(1975), Wilks (1975), etc.-The hypothesis adopted for our project draws more from this second method, inthat the structures of RESEDA's internal representation provide, beforehand, avery complete framework of the predictions which are to be a guide in scanningthe text to be translated into the system's metalanguage.To describe our approach, we will uti l ize theabove  example.
The initial text innatural language is first (pre)processed to obtain its constituent structure.
Forthis purpose, we have used the French surface grammar implemented in DEREDEC, asoftware package developed at the University of Quebec at Montreal by PierrePlante (1980a, 1980b).
This system, comparable to an ATN parser, permits a break-down of the surface text into its syntactic constituents, and establishes, betweenthese constituents, syntagmatic relationships of the type topic-comment, determi-nation and coordination.
This prel iminary analysis provide a context for subse-c t processing, without necessari ly removing all the ambiguities : in the samew .
see Boguraev and Sparck Jones (1982).The ~pecific tools that we intend to develop for this project are of two types :a g~neral procedure which can be likened to a sort of semantic parsing, and asystem of heuristic rules.Semantic parsingThe first stage of the general procedure consists of marking the "triggers",defined as lexical units which call one or more of the predicative patternsallowed for in RESEDA's metalanguage.
Thus we do not take into consideration everyone of the lexical items met in thesur face  text, retaining only those directlypertaining to the "translation" to be done ; this is not without similarity withthe "skimming" found in DeJong (1979a, 1979b).However, we do not limit ourselves to a simple keyword approach.
Certain lexicalitems are potential triggers, but their actual triggering in a given contextdepends on rules using both the morpho-syntactic analysis provided by DEREDEC andthe socio-historical knowledge stored in the RESEDA system.
These rules interveneat this stage to decide whether triggering should take place and to choose thepredicative patterns.
In the sentence given, belong to the list of potentialtriggers the verbal forms : "named", "lost", "granted" ; terms pertaining directlyto the metalanguage : "office", synonymous with <post> in RESEDA, and its speci-fication "provost" ; date elements : "september", "october".
After applying therules, the fol lowing patterns have been triggered :186 J. LI~ON et alwas named begin+(soc+)BE-AFFECTED-BY SUBJ <personage>-surface subject of thetriggerOBJ <post>-surface complement(SOURCE <personage>l<social-body>-sur-face complement of the agent ofthe trigger)datel : obligatorydate2 : prohibitedbibl.
: obligatoryprovost ~ (soc+)BE-AFFECTED-BY SUBJ <personage>OBJ <post>-triggerSOURCE <personage>l<social-body>date1 : obligatorydate2 : optionalbibl.
: obligatory22 september 1413 ?
date alost ~ end+BE-AFFECTED-BY SUBJ <personage>- surface subject of the triggerW date1 : obligatorydate2 : prohibitedbibl.
: obligatoryoffice ~ (SOC+)BE-AFFECTED-BY SUBJ <personage>OBJ <post>-trigger(SOURCE <personage>I<soclal-body>)date1 : obligatorydate2 : optionalbibl.
: obligatory23 october 14~4 ~ date bwas granted ~ begin+(soc+)BE-AFFECTED-BY SUBJ <personage>-surface subject ofthe triggerOBJ <post>-surface complement(SOURCE <personage>l<social-body>-complement of the surface agent)MODAL letters-of-nominationdatel : obligatorydate2 : prohibitedbibl.
: obligatoryoffice ~ (SOc+)BE-AFFECTED-BY SUBJ <personage>W OBJ <post>(SOURCE <personage>l<social-body>)datel : obligatorydate2 : optionalbibl.
: obligatoryThe second stage of this general procedure consists of examining the triggers be-longing to the same morpho-syntactic environment.
If there are several predicatetriggers in the same environment, and if the predicates triggered are the same- which means that the predicates and case slots must be the same and that themodulators, dates and the space location information must be compatible - then itcan be said that the triggers refer to the same situation.
As a result, the predi-cative patterns are merged as to obtain the most complete description possible ;the predictions about filling the slots linked with the cases of the resultingpa~terns, together govern the search for fillers in the surface expression.CONVERSION INTO THE RESEDA METALANGUAGE 187Thus, the first three tri@gers of the example, recognized as relevant to the sameenvironment, are combined in the following formula :begin+(soc+)BE-AFFECTED-BY SUBJ <personage>-surface subject of "is named"OBJ <post>-"provost"(SOURCE <personage>I<soclal-body>-surface complement ofthe agent of "is named"datel : date adate2 : prohibitedblbl.
: obl igatoryThe units of the surface expression corresponding to the predictions of the pat-tern obtained are then retrieved and standardized according to RESEDA's cat-egories imposed by the pattern (Andr~ Marchant : Andr~-Marchant, personage ;provost : provost, post ; King's Council : king's-council, social-body, etc.
).Eventually, we obtain pla~e 1 in Andr~ Marchant's biography.The example we have shown il lustrates a part icular ly simple case, in which it isnot necessary to establish links between the planes created.
If we had to processthe sentence "Phil ibert de St L~ger is nominated seneschal of Lyon on the 30th ofJuly 1412, in lieu of the late A. de Viry", three planes should be generated :one for the nomination of Phil ibert de St L~ger, one for the death of A. de Viry,and another one establishing a weak causality link ("CONFER", in our metalanguage)between the first two planes.
Surface items such as conjunctions, preposit ions andsentential adverbs can be used to infer links between planes : causality, f inal-ity, coordination, etc.
More precisely, in the last example, "in lieu of" is apotential trigger according to the following rule : if the main noun group of thesurface preposit ional phrase contains a trigger, this phrase constitutes a planeenvironment and CONFER introduces the plane created.Heurist ic rulesThe process we have sketched so far requires a corpus of heuristic rules, to solveam~gui t les  which are left aside by the predict ion system - which cannot go beyondthe 5apabil it ies of RESEDA's predicative patterns.We s:~ll say just a few words about the heuristic rules designed to solve casesof anaphora (as in our first example, "he", "this office", "who").In the approach that we propose, marks of anaphora are identif ied during the gen-eral analysis procedure with unassumed predictions, tr iggering the appropriateheuristic rules.
The actual solving, after val idation of the marks, brings intoplay a number of criteria from simple pair ing off and morphological agreement tomore subtle criteria, like contextual proximity, persistance of theme, etc.
Thus,morphological agreement and contextual proximity are used to replace "who" by"Tanguy du Ch~tel" in our first example ; persistance of theme enables us to makeup for the missing date of Tanguy du Ch~tel's posting by date b in the list oftriggers.We would like to integrate this approach, which has been purely empirical up tonow, into the framework of a more general theory.
Two directions of enquiry seempart icular ly interesting in order to develop our own phi losophy of the subject.The PAL system of Candace Sidner, is a top-down anaphora resolution method whichmakes use of the notion of focus (likened to the theme of the discourse).
Bysearching in the text for "focuses" which refer to a system of representationorganized as a series of "frames", it is able to solve references.
If the refer-ence is not found by using the frames themselves, At is inferred from otherframes contained in the database (Sidner 1978, 1979).188 J. LEON et alThe interest for our study lies in the fact that RESEDA already has, as permanentdata, a certain amount of general knowledge organized in a form very similar tothat of frames.
Thus, in Our example, the nomination and dismissal of Andr~ Mar-chant refers to the context of the "civil war at the beginning of the 15th cen-tury" which is one of those frames.The approach used by Klappholz and Lockman depends on the hypothesis that there isa strong link between coreference and the cohesive links of a discourse.
Theselinks, when marked progressively in the text, become the indices of a structure ofthe discourse, organized as a tree structure and created dynamical ly (Lockman 1978~These cohesive links (effect, cause, syllogism, exemplif ication, etc.)
are verysimilar to the logical connections between planes in RESEDA (causality, finality,condition, etc.
).CONCLUSIONThe study that we describe here is intended to automatical ly attain a representa-tion of fundamental underlying semantic relationships corresponding to a Frenchsurface expression.
These results can, in principle, be used not only in theframework of RESEDA, but in a number of different app!ications such as, for ex-ample, automatic abstraction, paraphrase, machine translation, direct encodingof natural language documents in a factual database.FOOTNOTES1 This research is jointly financed by the "Agence de l ' Informatique - A.D.I.
"and the "Centre National de la Recherche Scientif ique - C.N.R.S.".
The projectleader is Gian Piero Zarri.REFERENCES\[i\] Boguraev, B.K.
and Sparck Jones, Karen, A Natural Language Analyser for Data-base Access, Information Technology : Research and Development i (1982) 23-39.\[2\] DeJong, G., Skimming Stories in Real Time, Ph.D. Thesis, Yale University Com-puter Science Department, New Haven (1979).\[3\] DeJong, G., Predict ion and Substantiation : A New Approach to Natural Lan-guage Processing, Cognit ive Science 3 (1979) 251-273.\[4\] Lockman, A.B., Contextual Reference Resolution, Technical Report DCS-TR-70,Rutgers University Department of Computer Science, New Brunswick (1978).\[5\] Marcus, M., A Theory of Syntactic Recognit ion for Natural Language (MIT Press,Cambridge, 1979).\[6\] Plante, P., DEREDEC - Logiciel pour le traitement l inguistique et l 'analyse decontenu des textes, manuel de l'usager, Universit~ du Quebec ~ Montreal (1980).\[7\] Une grammaire DEREDEC des structures de surface du franqais, appliqu~el'analyse de contenu des textes, Universit~ du Quebec ~ Montreal (1980).\[8\] Schank, R.C., ed., Conceptual Information Processing (North-Holland,Amsterdam, 1975).\[9\] Sidner, Candace L., The Use of Focus as a Tool for Disambiguation of DefiniteNoun Phrases, in: Waltz, D.L.
(ed.
), Theoretical Issues in Natural LanguageProcessing - 2 (ACM, New York, 1978).\[10\]Sidner, Candace L., A Computational Model of Co-reference Comprehension inEnglish, Ph.D. Thesis, MIT Artif icial  Intell igence Laboratory, Cambridge (1979~\[ll\]Wilks, Y., A Preferential, Pattern-Seeking Semantics for Natural LanguageInference, Art i f ic ial  Intell igence 6 (1975) 53-74.CONVERSION INTO THE RESEDA METALANGUAGE 189\[12\] Winograd, T., Understanding Natural Language (Academic Press, New York, 1972).\[133 Woods, W.A., An Experimental Parsing System for Transition Network Grammars,in: Rustin, R.
(ed.
), Natural Language Processing (Algorlthmics Press, NewYork, 1973).\[14\] Zarri, G.P., What Can Artificial Intelligence Offer to Computational Linguis-tics ?
The Experience of the RESEDA Project, in: Ager, D.E.
et al (eds.
),Advances in Compater-aided Literary and Linguistic Research (University ofAston in Birmingham, 1979).\[15\] Zarri, G.P., Building the Inference Component of an Historical InformationRetrieval System, in: Proceedings of the Seventh International Joint Confer-ence on Artificial Intelligence - IJCAI/81 (The American Association for Ar-tificial Intelligence, Menlo Park, 1981).\[16\] Zarri, G.P., Ornato, Monique, King, Margaret, Zwiebel, Anne, Zarri-Baldi,Lucia, Projet RESEDA/0 : Rapport Final, Equipe Recherche Humanisme Franqais,Paris (1977).
