COLING 82, \].
Horecl?~ (ed.
)North.Holland Publishing Company?
Academic 1982The Anatomy of a Systemic ChoiceWilliam C. MannUSC Information Sciences Institute"4676 Admiralty WayMarina del Ray, CA 90291USA1 Scope and Purpose 1Choice is one of the most prominent organizing concepts in systemic linguistics.
Languages aredescribed in terms of the choices available to the speaker and the relationships of those choices to eachother and to the language produced.This paper addresses the problems of characterizing processes of choosing in a systemicframework and creating a corresponding notation.
Focus on notation is necessary at this pointsince development of notation must to some extent precede development of corresponding content.Although these developments are part of an investigation of computer text production, their significanceis not confined to that enterprise; they are as significant in linguistics as in computer science.This paper focuses on the perspective of choice as a speaker's action.
We hope that byexploring the nature of systemic choices, several kinds of interests in language will be served:Interest in Grammar as Language Description- Describing choices can yield a richer understanding of the alternatives offered, and howone system of choices differs from another.Interest in Semantic Descriptions- Choice descriptions can be a direct extension of present systemic frameworks in thedirection of more explicit semantics.Interest in Describing Communication- Choice descriptions are helpful as parts of descriptions of how particular intentions tocommunicate can be satisfied.
They can be a component in a description of how a speakercan use language in order to do things, to use the functionality of language.Interest in Constructive Models- Choice descriptions can be used as parts of constructive models of the expressivecommunicative process, models which can perform this process instead of describing it.Our current research is aimed at building such a model as a computer program.Interest in Applications-Teaching English: choice descriptions can be used to convey the ways that syntacticconstructs are used.- Comprehensible Computation: In making computers communicate effectively with people,choice processes can be part of a process that creates text for computer users.195196 W.C. MANNThe paper is intended to convey primarily the skeletal (ramework for choice description, a set ofwell.motivated evices for describing choice processes.
To be useful it will have to be complemented bya physiology, an account of how choice processes can interact to produce intended effects.2 Choice and IntentPeople build grammars for different purposes, so it is appropriate to apply differing criteria totheir products \[Halliday 64\].
Although we feel that the work in this paper serves a broad range ofpurposes, we should still identify ours.
We would like to create an account of how one may generatetext that is appropriate for  satisfying particular intentions to communicate.
In other words,given something particular to say, we would like to be able to bring that intention to an existingdescription of how to seek to satisfy intentions to communicate, apply the description to the intention,and see at some level of detail that appropriate language is generated.By introducing a communicative purpose we immediately raise an issue of whether that purpose,or the potential of all purposes, should be regarded as within the grammar or outside of it.
To includepurposes as formal objects within systemic grammars would be a major extension of scope beyond thedominant tradition.
In contrast to Fawcett \[Fawcett 80\] (pp.
75-78), we treat the development of aparticular intention to speak as outside of the grammar.
We agree with Fawcett that the intentiondeserves theoretical treatment in conjunction with its grammatical realization, but we do not propose toderive it systemically.So the grammar has a definite boundary, with communicative purposes residing outside.The grammar is composed of systems (hence the name Systemic) which are collections ofalternatives.
Each alternative is named; the names are called grammatical  features.
Each system hasan entry condition (a boolean expression of grammatical features), which specifies when thealternatives are offered.
For example the Number system offers the alternatives Singular and Plura1.
Itsentry condition is simply Count, i.e.
the alternative Count must have been chosen in some other systembefore the alternatives of Number are offered.
The act of offering the alternatives is called entering thesystem.The grammar also includes the methods of choosing among alternatives, the "choice experts" tobe developed below.3 Things to Know about a ChoiceSince the grammar is to generate in conformity to a given intention to communicate, and sincethe language which is generated depends entirely on the grammar's choices, 2 the central problem is asfollows:How can the choice in each system entered be made to conform to a givenintention to communicate?It is helpful at this point to introduce the notion of a choice expert for a system.
Following ourintention to view choice as action, we define a choice expert as a process that interacts with theenvironment and determines what choice in the system conforms to the given intention.
Choice expertsfollow these conventions:- Each system has a distinct choice expert that operates independently of the other choice,experts of the grammar.THE ANATOMY OF A SYSTEMIC CHOICE 197- All of the interaction between choice experts is in the connectivity of the grammar, the entryconditions of systems.- A choice expert does not function until the entry conditions of its system are fully satisfied.We give each choice expert the potential for two kinds of interaction with the environment: one inwhich the expert asks questions of the environment, and one in which it receives responses.
In its work,there are two things a choice expert can do:1.
It can ask a question of the environment.2.
It can make one of the choices offered by its system.If it makes a choice, then its work is finished.
If it asks a question, then by further convention itwaits for the answer from the environment, inspects it, and proceeds in a way that is somehowconditioned by that answer.The following become the central issues in describing each choice expert:1.
What questions must be asked of the environment in order to choose according to theintent?2.
What must the environment contain in order to answer the questions correctly?3.
How do answers condition asking further questions?4.
How do answers condition making choices?The sections below deal with three primary aspects of choosing: asking questions of theenvironment, answering, and choosing.
These three are systematically incomplete because they do notdeal with the subject matter of the questions.
Later sections extend the discussion in order to make thesubject matter explicit.4 Asking, Answering and ChoosingThe Nigel grammar which this paper represents contains over 200 systems, each raising relativelyspecific issues 3.
There are some strong patterns in the sets of questions which Nigel's choice expertsaddress to its environment.
Three kinds of questions are particularly influential in determining what isgenerated:1.
Some questions are used to determine whether information of a certain character isavailable, such as the location or duration of an event.
These are generally used justbefore other questions that seek to characterize information.2.
Some questions try to categorize or characterize available information.
These questionsused for information characterization are the most numerous.
They are used tosubcategorize, and also to discover relations of inclusion, identity, precedence, adjacency,and attributes of manner, number, completeness, intended emphasis, identifiability to thereader, decomposability, gender, hypotheticality, extensionality, and many other sorts.3.
Several questions about preference are concerned with whether available informationshould be expressed.Note that for each of these kinds of questions, the set of possible answers is olosed, since it isfixed by the inquiry and predictable in advance.198 W.C. MANNBecause in this model there is a definite boundary betw~ en the grammar and its environment, andknowledge of the world and the intended communication belong to the environment, we could put aparticular grammar in very different environments, and as long as the questions received the sameanswers, the generated units would be the same.
This leads to two basic observations about answering:1.
The method which the environment uses to determine its answer is not part of the grammar.A description of the grammar can therefore omit these methods.2.
The range of possible answers must not vary from one environment to another; rather it mustbe controlled (definitionally) by the grammar, and so a description of the grammar mustinclude them.Since the answers given to each choice expert have a predictable range, the response of thechoice expert can be completely determined in advance.
For each of the possible answers, there is anext action, either a question to ask or a choice to make.The questions, answers and choices therefore form a Decision Tree.5 The Incompletness of Asking, Answering And ChoosingThe account of choice experts above is defective in that it does not adequately identify thesubject matter of the choice expert's questions.
4 The environment is not required to rememberanything about the ongoing "conversation" with the grammar, so the grammar must provide allcontinuity by identifying, remembering and asking about items in its environment.We call an item in the environment a hub, by analogy to the hub of a spoked wheel, partlybecause in a network representation of knowledge such items tend to have a well-identified centralstructure with connections to surrounding structures.The grammar's memory of entities in the environment is creted by1.
Getting the environment to supply symbols to represent its entities.2.
Associating these symbols with grammatical funciton symbols,3.
Writing questions (in choice experts) in terms of these grammatical function symbols,4.
Translating questions (at presentation time) to include hubs instead of the associatedgrammatical function symbols, using a process called the Mediator.
)The first step, getting the environment to supply symbols, requires that the choice experts employa second class of questions.
They differ from the ones presented above in that the allowable answersare drawn from open sets, and the questions do not correspond to branch points in the decision trees ofthe choice experts.The interface between grammar and environment is a two-layer boundary, with the Mediatorprocess between the boundaries performing the inquiry translations.
It is a simple substitution processthat uses a table of the existing associations between grammatical functions and hubs.
Theenvironment's responses are not translated.The mediator isolates the grammar from the symbol system of the environment.
The ~;ammar iswritten in terms of grammatical functions; no symbols from the environment are written into the g, arnmar.Conversely, the environment does not encounter grammatical function symbols in questions.
It seesonly the question symbols of quastion3 and hub names it has itself supplied.THE ANATOMY OF A SYSTEMIC CHOICE 199The most important consequence of this arrangement is that the grammar can operatewithout any part icular  sensit iv ity to how knowledge is represented in the environment.6 Creating Function AssociationsAssociations between grammatical function symbols and hubs provide the continuity in thegrammar's interaction with its environment.
These associations are an extension of the notion of afunction symbol, since we can now ask of a function symbol what concept it represents and also whatlinguistic realization it has.This extension seems particularly natural where reference is being performed.
Function symbolssuch as ACTOR and BENEFICIARY are already in the grammar, and in satisfying intentions tocommunicate, ACTOR will be associated with hubs for actors, BENEFICIARY with hubs for beneficiaries,and so forth.This use of function symbols is an extension in another way.
Some function symbols will beassociated with hubs but will not correspond to constituents in the generated structure.
In Nigel thefunction symbols EVENTTIME and RELEVANTTIME are used in the reasoning about tense, but do nothave their own distinct constituents in clauses.
The function symbols SPEAKER and HEARER are usedin reasoning about pronouns, and the symbol SPEECHACT is used in reasoning about mood.These various uses of function symbols are compatible: the way of identifying the hub to beassociated with a function does not depend on whether that function will be inserted into the structure.Several functions are inserted in some instances but not others, and yet they carry the same hubinformation in each case.
(For example, AGENT would carry the same hub symbol for either "Someoneclosed the door" or "The door was closed," but it would be inserted only in the second case.
)Associations between function symbols and hubs are created by the method used to present anopen.set question to the environment.
Part of the specification of such a question is the function symbolwith which the environment's response will be associated.
That symbol must not have an existingassociation when the question is asked.
Associations therefore cannot be changed, once made.7 ConclusionsWe have presented a new way of thinking about choices, representing them, identifying theircontent, and progressively making the notion of grammatical choice more explicit.
The key conceptualelements are the distinctness of the grammar and its environment, the metaphor of a choice expert whoasks questions, closed sets of question and answer symbols, open sets of hubs and hub identifiers,association of hubs with grammatical function symbols and choice expert processes as decision trees.This conception is compatible with the systemic framework and contributes to it.
At the same time, itsimplifies talking about how systemic grammars fit with various concepts of text and communication, andsince it helps relate text to intentions to communicate, it contributes directly to the art of computer textgeneration.200 W.C. MANNFootnotes1This work would not have been possible without he active participation of Christian Matthiessen and Michael A.K.
Hsliiday\[Halllday 76\], \[Halllday 61\], \[Matthiessen 81\].
It is part of an ongoing research project in computer text generation.This research was supported by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research contract No.
F49620-79-C-0181.
The views andconclusions contained in this document are those of the author and should not be interpreted as necessarily representing theofficial policies or endorsements, either expressed or implied, of the Air Force Office of Scientific Research of the U.S.Government.2except for the possibility of underspecification f order, which v~ will ignore,3See \[Mann 82\].4It also does not describe the three-way interaction between choice experts, the environment, and the lexicon.
The extension ofthese ideas to the interaction with the lexicon is outside the scope of this paper.
However, see \[Matthiessen 81\] for a description ofhow the lexicon, grammar, and knowledge representation ofthe environment might be suitably related.References\[Fawcett 80\] Fawcett, R. P., Exeter Linguistic Studies.
Volume 3: Cognitive Linguistics and SocialInteraction, Julius Groos Verlag Heidelberg and Exeter University, 1980.\[Halliday 61\] Halliday, M. A. K., "Categories of the theory of grammar," Word 17, 1961.\[Ha~iliday 64\] Halliday, Michael A. K., "Syntax and the consumer," in C.I.J.M.
Stuart (ed.
), MonograDhSeries in Languages & Linguistics.
Volume 17: Report of the Fifteenth Annual (First International)Round Table Meeting on Linguistics and Language Study, pp.
11.24, Georgetown University Press,Washington, D.C., 1964.\[Halliday 76\] Halliday, M. A. K., System and Function in Language, Oxford University Press, London,1976.\[Mann 82\] Mann, William C., Generating Text: The Grammar's Demands, 1982.
Manuscript\[Matthiessen 81\] Matthiessen, C. M. I. M., "A grammar and a lexicon for a text.production system," inThe Nineteenth Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, Sperry Univac,1981.
