COMPUTATIONAL LINGUISTICS AND ITS ROLE IN MRCHANIZEDOR MAN-MACHINE COGNITIVE PROBLEM SOLVINGM.
K. ChytilCenter of Biomathematics, Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences,142 20 Prague 4, Vidensk~ 1083, CzechoslovakiaI n  the present  paper cogn i t ive  sc ience  w i l l  be conce iv -ed as a discipline which theoretically supports the followingconstructing of various cognitive problem solving systemsrunning in a CA mode or in a man-machine mode or in the formof cognitive robots.
The role of computational l in~st ios  i~this context will be demonstrated and Justified.I.
CoKnitive uroblem solving.
Hence "cognition" is notconsidered here as an object of psychological analysis butra~her in the sense of a man-machine cognitive process, i.e.of a purpose built point of view.
Therefore, an analogy wlthindustrial mass-productionwil l  be emphasized and the necess-ary theoretical questions for projecting and setting up suchefficient mechanized or computer assisted cognitive systemswill be studied.
Such systems can be employed especially inscientific research since it presents a systematic form ofactivity in the field of general cognition.
Following our ana-logy it is to say that such "factories on cognition" shouldnot be identified with usual computing centers~ The consider-ations will be focused on a so-called co~itive, problem, It isa question raised for inquiry, investigation or discovery,which needs to be solved and where the final solution willpresent new knowledge.
Non-cognitive problems are designatedas technical problems.
Their final solution consists of a de-sirable change in a material system.
In the following we re-- 74  -s t r i c t  our account to  fac tua l  ex t ramathemat ica l  cogn i t iveproblems the solving of which satisfies necessarily the twocond i t ions :I .
a computer i s  used,  at  leas~,  par t ly  in  the so lv ingI "  mathemat ica l  means are inc luded ,  at  leas t ,  in  a part  ofthe process of reasoning (as an algorithm or inferring ina suitable calculus).The presence of other solving means, such as linguistic-al, methodological, etc.
follows directly from the fact thatonly factual problems are at stake.2.
S~nbiotio problem solvers.
Cognitive problem-solvingprocedures consist of operations with concepts, expressionsor symbols.
If such a procedure has the character of an algo-rithm we call it a routine ~rocedure, otherwise it is termeda creative one.
Any goal-seeking performance of such cogniti-ve procedures is considered to be an intelli~ent activity.
Wecan by this way unambiguously say that man or machine actsintelligently and avoid by this way such vague expressions as,for instance, ?be'or ?it thinks'.
Systems which can act in-telligently are called intelli~ent agents.
They generallysatisfy the following requirements-(i) they have the ability of performing operationswith abstract entities,(ii) the~ can accept knowledge from other systems(agents )  and then use i t  cor rec t ly  ( i .e .
they understand i t ) ,( i i i )  they  must be ab le  to communicate knowledge toanother ,  s imi la r  system (an agent ) ,( i v )  they must have a capac i ty  fo r  memory and be ab leto  learn  from the i r  h i s to ry  (1 ) .In te l l igent  agents  can be used as processors  fo r  cogn i t iveproblem so lv ing .
Examples of  in te l l igent  agents  are  man, acomputer,  an animal .
When connect ing  such agents  funct iona l ly ,but not necessar i l y ,  phys ica l ly ,  var ious  types of  symbiot icin te l l igent  agents  can ar i se ,  shor t ly  sa id  symbionts (man--computer ,  a group of  people and computer,  e tc . )
.
Let us note- 75  -that in a symbiotic connection both man and machine obtaincertain exactly circumscribed tasks from a control unit of thewhole system.
Man is charged with tasks required by creativeprocedures ~reas  machine is charged wi?h the routine ones.The difference between the symbiotic and the usual interactiveconnection of man and machine consists in the fact that in theinteractive mode man is not controlled and, therefore, he canact fully independently, using the computer as an efficienttool only.
The sense of a man-machine symbiont emerges per-spicuously when accepting the following three assumptions:A.
The solving of each cognitive (solvable) problem canbe done by a creative procedure.
Moreover, some of these pro-oedures can be algorithmized (routinized).B.
Each routine procedure realizable by man is, in prin-ciple, also realizable by machine, but not conversely, i.e.there are some routine procedures which are realizable bymachine only.C.
Some of the non-routinizable procedures, as in thesense A, can be performed either (i) only by man, or (ii) bymachine only, or (iii) by both man and machine.Obviously various basic kinds of cognitive problem sys-tems, particularly of  symbionts can be set up.
Respecting theassumption A we shell prefer oognitive systems where:(a) the solving is routinized whenever possible (ass.
A)or necessary (ass.
B) and we take into account only the mecha-nized processing of routine procedures,(b) the performance of non-routinizable procedures sa-tisfying ass.
C(i) or C (li) will be done exclusively by man.Such systems have not only a broader range but they arenot replaceable by a single computer solving system.
They are,moreover, cheaper.
The role of computational linguistics isquite essential in symbiotic systems because the requirements~O ~he .number of communications inside and outside of the sys-- 76  -te rn  grows rapidly.
Let us note that a so-called "expert-system"i s  a vague express ion  fo r  cogn i t ive  problem so lv ing  systemsconst ructed  onthe  pr inc ip les  ment ioned above.3.
Computat iona l  l ingu is t i cs  and Sts  ro le  in  the  f~.
.
t .l y  of  cogn i t ive  too ls f  A mechaniz ing  cogn i t ive  so lw lng pro -cess  runs w i th in  the fo l low ing  genera l  t r iad :1.
Knowledge 2.
Form (method) 3.
P rocessorKnowledge i s  par t ly  fac tua l  ( i .e .
taken  from the  g iven problemdomain) ,  par t ly  aux i l i a ry .
In  the  la t te r  case i t s  cer ta in  par ti s  necessary  fo r  the  quest ions  ar i s ing  in  connect ion  with theproper  const ruct ion  of  the so lv ing  system (knowledge backed bycomputer sc ience ,  mathemat ics ,  log ic ,  methodology of  sc ience ,psycho logy ,  systems theory ,  cybernet ics  and (computat iona l )lingulstlcso The necessity of the support from the part ofcomputational linguistics is given:- by the requ i rements  to the  communication and unders tand iDgoccur r ing  in  the  de f in i t ion  of  in te l l igent  agents ,- by the ,assumption I.,- by the assumption I~ and by the fact that we have only fact-ual problems in mind.
The representing of a factual structu-re into a formal one presents one of the most difficultparts of the whole cogni$ive solving process,- by the preference of symbiotic cognitive s~stems.
In th~sway the claims for various kinds and levels of linguisticcommunication and understanding grow more quickly than theydo by the usual machine mode of processing.The above exemplified importance and needs of computat-ional linguistic tools for a symbiotic cognitive solvingprocess continues obviously even under the condition that theuse of the natural language would be, if possible, reduced, i.e.
by replacing it by a semiformal or a formal language.
Si-milarly computational linguistics should not avoid, in thisconnection, to cover those areas which are presented by variouskinds of image processing and manipulation (nonverbal input-- 77  -output) runnin~ in the course of a mechanized cognitive solv-ing process.4.
Cognitive science.
The above described mechanized orsymbiotic co~xitive problem solving systems, their construct-ion, maintenance and use present the necessary basis and rai-son d ?etre  of computational linguistics.
But neither thecomputational linguistics itself nor the disciplines and meansrequired by I and I ?
(computers and mathematics) are suffi-cient for the given goals.
The rest can be gathered from a setof disciplines called above auxiliary cognitive sciences.Thus cognitive science has its general methodological back-ground in philosophy, it studies various nonphilosophicalmethods and nonmaterial tools or srlslng in the individuslcognitive sciences or thanks to some interaction among themand from the viewpoint whether and how such tools could behelpful in the process of mechanized factual cognitive problemsolving.
Its object is thus a theory of mechanized cognition.Its method is partly mathematics, partly logic, partly philo-sophy.
The development of cognitive science is stimulated bythe needs of individual factual sciences such as social scien-ces, biology or physics or by various civic areas of knowled-ge.
The results of cognitive science are applied in a discip-line called cognitive engineering which has the proper con-struction of the concrete mechanized cognitive problem systemsas its duty whereas the use of such systems runs on the parti-cular problems in the course of the single factual disciplines.This approach described in (2) starts from the Bobrow's (3)and Collin's (4) the original determination of cognitivescience, being, moreover, consistent with the PedoseJev'sappeal (5)'.
It differs in two essential points: firstly in themain pragmatical aim of cognitive science and secondly in itsapproach to mathematics.
Let us emphasize that the whole act-ivity called usually (computer assisted) applications ofmathematics, makes, according to our approach, a certain part-78 -of cognitive engineering.
By this way the assertion of comput-ational linguistics is, at least, more conspicious.References=(I) Chytil, ~.
K., Mathematical methods as cognitive problem-solvers, Kybernetes 9 (1980), 197-205.
(2) Chytil, M.K., Towards cognitive science and cognitiveengineering, Teorie rozvoJe v~dy 4 (1980), 101.
(3) Bobrow, D.G., Preface to Representing and Understanding,ed.
by D.G.Bobrowand A.Collins, Academic Press, Inc.,New York, San Francisco, London, 1975, pp.
IX-XII+(4) Collins, A., Why Cognitive Science, Cognitive Science I(1977), 1-2.
(5) Pedoseev, P.N., PilosofiJa i integraciJa znaniJa, Voprosyfilosofii 7 (1978), 16-30.- 79  -
