COLEVG 82, J. Horeckf/ (ed.
)North-Holland Publishing Company?
Academia, 1982FRAME BASED RECOGNIT ION OF THEME CONTINUITYJames T. Cr itzHewlet  t -Packard CompanyPalo Altow Cal i forn iaU.S .AThe paper descr ibes a system which determinescont inu i ty  and shifts in Engl ish texts on the basisof sentent ia l  themes.
The theme object  w i th in  thethematic  component  of a sentence is determined anda search is made to assoc iate  it with a frameshared with the previous theme or themes.
If thetheme object  cannot be assoc iated d i rect ly  with oneof these frames, interpret ive rules are ~ppl ied todo so indirect ly  through one of the frames normal lyassoc iated with the object  but not yet with thetext .INTRODUCTIONThis paper descr ibes a system which interprets the semant ic  theme ofa text as a mapping of the semant ic  network of states assoc iated inthe text with one or more theme objects onto an establ ished semant icframe.
Theme objects are determined on the basis of the syntact icd is t inct ion  of thematic  and rhematic  (topic - Comment) components  ofa sentence.
The concept of "a frame" as  used here is that of asemant ic  representat ion  of exper ience~ whose funct ional  roles arerelated, rather than of a psycholog ica l  representat ion,  wherephys ica l  propert ies  of an object  which do not bear any funct ionalre levance to the def in i t ion  of the object  and its re lat ionship  toother  components  of the frame are included.The prob lem of recogniz ing ccnt inu i ty  and shifts in text analys is  isgenera l ly  def ined in terms of ident i fy ing the text's themes.
It isapparent  from examples l ike (i - 2) that a system which tries tod iscover  cont inui ty  on the sole basis of searching for antecedentreferences for a pronoun or synonym is inadequate where a text isdeveloped through the techniques of e laborat ion,  analogy, compar isonand other  styles involv ing impl ied dependency.
(i)(2)The store was crowded.
The market ing campaign had been aSuccess .Harold not i f ied hfs lawyer.
A storm was brewing.In order to identi fy the implied theme object  in text samples suchas these, the system descr ibed in this paper makes use of thed is t inct ion  ~f the syntact ic  categor ies  "theme" and "rheme"developed by the Prague School  of L inguist ics.
Once it hasdetermined the sentent ia l  theme it further relates this th~me to a7172 J.T.
CRITZframe which can be reasonably  assoc iated with it in the g ivencontext  and l inks the frame with those extabl ished in the precedingtext.
The objects wh ich  are the pr imary referents  of a sentent ia ltheme are ass igned the role of being major  nodes through which oneframe is l inked d i rect ly  or, where more abstract  assoc iat ions  can beinferred, indirect ly with others re levant  to the cont inu i ty  of thetext.
The concept  of "frame" is that descr ibed in M. Minsky(1977).In the fo l lowing sect ions the concepts of "theme" and "frame" aredef ined more exp l ic i t ly  and the manner  in which the system relatesthem to each other  is described.
Whi le  the system is des igned tooperate on Engl ish text, compar isons wi l l  be made to Czech.THEMESWi th in  the grammat ica l  theory of the Prague School  of L inguist ics  asentence is composed of a min imum of two major  const i tuents  - a"theme" ("topic") and a "rheme" ("comment").
(A sentence may alsoconta in  components which funct ion as a t rans i t ion between these two,but such components  wi l l  not be d iscussed here.)
The theme - rhemed iv is ion  of a sentence typical ly  conforms, in non-contrast iveenvironments,  to the NP subject  and VP major  const i tuents  of asentence, with the theme being the f i rst  of these to appear  in thesurface word order  of the sentence.
Because of its more restr ic t iveword order, the theme of a sentence in Engl ish  is normal ly  itssubject.
In Czech, however,  a sentent ia l  subject  may more eas i lyappear  in the latter  part  of a sentence.In its at tempt  to assoc iate  the theme of a sentence with a frame,our system reduces the object  of its operat ion  to a "theme object",def in ing this for Engl ish as the referent  of the h ighest  noun wi th inthe theme const i tuent :  normally,  the subject  head noun.
Wi th in  VPsfunct ion ing in Engl ish  sentences as theme the theme object  would bethe d i rect  object 's  head noun, or, g iven other  contrast ive stress,the head noun of the phrase conta in ing the h ighest  peak ofintonat ion were the sentence spoken.It is important  to note that the theoret ica l  basis for label l ing asentence const i tuent  as theme does not necessar i ly  mean that thetheme object  has been prev ious ly  ment ioned in the text.
Theimmediate int roduct ion of new theme objects in Engl ish is obviousf rom the ex istence of non-def in i te  themes in examples l ike (3).
(3) The old hotel  burned down last year.
A new restaurantis to take its place.However,  unless some re lat ion can be found between contextua l ly  newthemes and the exist ing context,  sentences with non-def in i te  themeswould  be e i ther  make a text d iscont inuous or would mainta in  theircont inu i ty  only indirect ly  through the re lat ion  of the theme toanother  noun in the same sentence which is anaphoric.
In e i thercase there would be l i t t le  just i f i cat ion  for ass ign ing a themat icfunct ion to non-def in i te  nouns, and the general  de f in i t ion  of themeproposed by the Prague School  would have to be great ly  a l tered ordropped.FRAME BASED RECOGNITION OF THEME CONTINUITY 73The assoc ia t ion  o f  themes w i th  frames provides cont inu i ty  wi thoutthe requirement for expl ic i t  previous mention.
The c la im made inassoc iat ing themes and frames is that themes are not referent ia l lysimple: their meaning involves reference not only to someindividual,  act, event, etc., but also reference to some structuredset of these with which the noun referent  is associated.
Cont inu i tyl ies in the existence of an assumed shared re lat ion hold ing betweena theme and other  objects prev ious ly  mentioned.FRAMESA frame may be genera l ly  def ined as a l imited complex of objects,acts, events, and/or  states, whose assoc iat ion  is determined byconvent ion or exper ience and is assumed and expected by a speaker  orauthor  to be known by his or her ~udience.
S imple frames include:the assoc ia t ion  of the objects "the bathroom" ("koupelna"),  "thebedrooms" ("lo~nice"),  "the kitchen" ("kuchyn~"), "the roof"("st{echa"),  etc., with the frame "h)use", or the sequence "themorning" ("r~no" a "dopoledne"),  "noon" ("poledne"),  etc., as partsof the frame "day".
Reference to one member of a frame suf f ices tomake other  members of the frame avai lab le  as poss ib le  themes.
Forexample,  ment ion  of "the k i tchen and bathroom" implies the frame"house", and this mention, if themes are assumed to be bound toframes, suf f ices to a l low the occurrence of "the house", "thegarden" or other assoc iated object  as a theme in a later sentence.The pr imary character is t ics  of a frame, as def ined in our naturallanguage system, and d is t ingu ish ing frames from other  re lat ionalstructures,  are that each member  of the frame must  be uniquelyident i f iab le  (This uniqueness a lso speci f ies the member 's  role inthe frame.)
and that the members share a common re lat ion orproperty which uniquely character izes  the frame to which theybelong.
Recogn i t ion  that a g iven object  is a unique member  of aframe is the at t r ibut ion  of the property of "def in i teness" to thatobject.
A non-def in i te  theme is interpreted as a descr ip t ion  of aframe object, but the reference itself as definite.DETERMINING CONTINUITYThemes and frames are related to each other  through the fo l lowingprocess.
The main components of the system include:- a parser- a lexicon, prov id ing not only the poss ib le  syntact ic  andsemant ic  representat ions  of each lexical  item andcond i t ions  on their use, but also an index to the framesnormal ly  assoc iated with the entry- a frame dict ionary,  stat ing the set types of the poss ib lemembers  for each frame and their  re lat ionsh ip  to each otherw i th in  the frame- a set of logical  inference and interpret ive rules, which canbe used to relate f rames in the const ruct ion  of a framesystem represent ing changes in the cont inu i ty  and developmentof a text- a l ist  of frames current ly  act ivated by theme reference,in terpretat ion  or inference74 \]J.T.
CRITZDuring the parse of a sentence the head noun of the sentence isselected as the most likely candidate for being its theme and,provided that tests of the sentence and the onepreced ing  it do notindicate a contrastive environment requiring the selection ofanother noun as theme, declares it to be the theme.
The framesindexed in the lexical entry for the theme noun are then searchedand compared for identity with or inclusion within those framescurrently active.
Those frames most recently used and those whicha~e associated with anaphoric noun phrases within the sentence areexamined first.
If the sentence being processed is the firstsentence in the text or if a search of all active frames fails, thetheme is associated with a "base" frame.
The base frame for a textincludes as its members the set types {AUTHOR}, {AUTHOR'S GOAL~,READER and other nodes which may be filled by objects or personsthese as part of their immediate world.The frame system for the text is built of the relationships holdingbetween all the activated frames and the base frame.The process is i l lustrated for (4).
For reasons of space, thehierarchical relations which hold between members of each frame isnot shown.
An  AGENT frame is automatical ly assigned to personsmentioned in a text.
The LOCATION, BUILDING and LOCK frames in (4)are interpreted.
(4) John turned the key.
The door still would not move.BASE { .
.
.
\[John\] \[author\] \[reader\] ...~AGENT (... \[John\] \[LOCATION > BUILDING\] \[GOAL\]BUILDING {... \[door\] ..-7LOCK (... \[key\] \[bolt\] ...~DOOR (... \[lock\] \[handle\] ...)}COMPARING ENGLISH AND CZECH TEXTSComparing the processing of English and Czech texts, it is importantto note that while most frames can be expected to be the same forboth languages, frame membership and relations between frame memberswhich are dependent on cultural, political, l inguistic and similardifferences will cause frames to differ at least at the lower nodelevels.
The "day" frame menti6ned earlier, in which English"morning" is paralleled by "r~no" and "dopoledne" in Czech, is oneexample.An even more signif icant difference is found in the effect ofvarying restrictions on word order in the two languages.
Czechseems to indicate shifts to new frames by moving subject nouns whichwould b e thematic in the English equivalent of the sentence to the endof the sentence.
Where the same frame or same samll set of framescan be associated with consequetive subjects in the text, thesubject is thematic.
An example of this can be seen in (5),where "cesta" ("trip") is associated with the general frame of aperson's daily life and with Karel's in particular.
In (6),FRAME BASED RECOGNITION OF THEME CONTINUITY 75however, where a shift is made from an AGENT frame to introduce anobject which is not, on the basis of previous-themes, expected,although an association could be found, Czech makes the subjectthematic, and uses as its theme an object more easily associatedwith existing frames.
English may optionally keep "envelope" as thetheme of its equivalent for (6) and allows interpretive rules todetermine the frame it is associated with.
(5) Karel se vcera prestehoval do nov~ho bytu.
CestaKarel himself yesterday moved to new apartment, tripdo prace u{ bude krat{{.to work now will-be shorter.Karel moved to a new apartment yesterday.
His tripto work now will be shorter.
(6) Marie otev{ela dve{e. Na zemi le{ela velk~ obalka.Marie opened doors, on ground lay large envelope.Marie opened the door.
I A large envelope lay on the ground.~There was a large envelope laying \[on the ground.
JRLFERENCES\[i\] Critz, J., Definiteness and Knowledge Frames, Paper presentedto the Annual Meeting of the Linguistic Society of America,(December 1981).\[2\] Danes, F., Papers on Functional Sentence Perspective (Cesko-slovensko akademie red, Prague, 1974).\[3\] Hirst, G., Discourse-Oriented Anaphora Resolution, AmericanJournal of Computational Linguistics 7.2 (1981) 85-98.\[4\] Johnson-Laird, P. and Wason, P.
(eds.
), Thinking: readingsin cognitive science (Cambridge University, New York, 1977)\[5\] Minsky, M., Frame System Theory, in: Johnson-Laird, P. andWason, P.
(eds.
), Thinking: readings in cognitive science(Cambridge University, New York, 1977)
