A Word Database for Natural Language ProcessingBrigitte BarnettHubert LehmannMagdalena ZoeppritzIBM Scientific Center, Tiergartenstral3e 15, 6900 Heidelberg, Federal Republic of GermanyAbst rac t :  The paper describes the design of a fair sized lexi-cal database that is to be used with a natural languagebased expert system with German as the language of inte-raction.
Sources for entries and tools for constructing andmaintaining the database are discussed, as well as the in-formation eeded in the lexicon for the purposes of syntacticand semantic processing.1 IntroductionThe intent of this paper is to show some aspects of a com-puter dictionary geared towards the natural anguage com-ponent of an expert system.
The dictionary is organized asa database to integrate tile various aspects of lexicographicwork and, at the same time, enable fast access from a parser.Work on the lexicon was long neglected - both in theoreticallinguistics and natural anguage processing projects - so wefelt that a principled approach was overdue (cf.
Sedelow(1985) for a survey of related work).
In the past two years,we concentrated therefore on the formulation of criteria forestablishing syntactic features which have to be coded in thelexicon, and we will report here on some of our findings.This will be preceded by a brief overview of the aims of ouroverall project and a short description of the prototype sy-stem we are building.
We will then describe the design ofour lexicographic database including the criteria for selectingsources of the vocabulary and some of our tools for editingand querying.The main objectives of the project Linguistics and LogicBased Legal Expert System, which is a Joint Research Pro-ject between the University of T/ibingen and the IBMScientific Center Heidelberg, are to design and implement anatural language based knowledge acquisition and querysystem and to build a legal expert system on its basis.
Itconsists of the following components:?
The dialog component controls the interaction with usersand contains among other things an explanation compo-nent and a component for preparing system output fordisplay and for eventually generating natural languageexplanatory texts.In a so-called user profile, as much information about auser is kept as necessary: to improve answers and ex-planations, one must know certain things about the user,mainly about her or his knowledge in current sessions.For example, one may want to avoid explanations aboutdetails the user already knows.?
The deductive component is activated by user queries, byinput of new knowledge, and by requests of the NaturalLanguage Analyzer.?
The knowledge manager administers the actual know-ledge base in the working area as well as its permanentversion in the database.
It is the only component allo-wed to update the permanent knowledge base.
It loadsknowledge from the database into storage and requestsconsistency checks for new knowledge.
With the excep-tion of the lexical database, the Knowledge Manageralso accesses the database on behalf of other systemcomponents.?
The SQL Data System (IBM (1983)) maintains the da-tabase which is a repository of facts and rules:.
linguistic knowledge, e.g.
dictionary and grammar?
common sense knowledge, including a thesaurus?
legal knowledge (law, rules from commentaries anddecisions, legal strategies)?
cases?
user profiles?
The natural anguage analyzer and its dictionary are ex-tensions and modifications of the existing User SpecialtyLanguages ystem (USL) developed at the HeidelbergScientific Center (Lehmann, H., N. Ott, M. Zoeppritz(1985), M. Zoeppritz (1984)).
USL is a natural lan-guage front end to SQL/DS (IBM 1983) operational insix languages.
Within the scope of this project, it will beenhanced to suit the requirements of a natural anguage(German) based expert system.
This means that it mustbe able to deal with both running texts and queries andto translate them into their corresponding logical form.The Natural Language Analyzer consists of the follo-wing parts:- a sentence separator splitting texts into sentences,?
a pre-parser for dictionary look-up,.
the parser and the routines for semantic analysis,?
routines for the generation of the logical form fromintermediate structures (cf.
Guenthner and Leh-mann (1984) for a description),?
routines for semi-automatic generation of thesaurusextensions (Wirth, R. (1984)).As a specific application, the area of German traffic law waschosen for the expert system which shall be used in twomodes: for consultation by a legal expert and as a tutor forlaw students (cf.
Alschwee t al.
(1985) for details).2 Description ofthe DictionaryWithin such an environment, a fairly large-sized and detai-led dictionary is needed.
Aspects of its design, the structurein the database, and the editing and querying facilites willbe discussed (cf.
also Barnett (1985)).
The expected size ofthe dictionary within the scope of the project is estimated tobe some 20,000 entries.
Its current size is some 12,000 ent-ries.4352.1 Word DatabaseBecause we must be able to handle a large number of wordsin this project, we felt that it would be necessary to admini-strate them in a more appropriate form than the usual fileorganization and that a relational database would be thebest tool for dealing with lexical information because of thefollowing advantages:?
excerpting rammatical information according to speci-fic features;?
links to related information ot necessarily kept in thesame table;?
easier control of updates;?
many types of integrity checks;?
automatic backup so that, in case of a systems break-down, a consistent status remains available;?
another great advantage of database technology is con-currency capabilities which preventusers working on thesame table from getting in each other's way.;?
and, within the realm of this project, the possibility tolink to the Natural Language Analyzer.2.2 ScopeThe scope of the information contained in our dictionary isgeared towards the processing of natural language by com-puter.
Lexical information must therefore be more detailedand more explicit than in standard dictionaries intended forhumans.
Also, a computer dictionary is of no value unlessit matches the grammar and the needs of the semantic pro-cessing.We started with the coding of morphological and syntacticinformation, since we felt to be on rather stable groundthere.
We will report on some of the difficulties we encoun-tered - many of them not unknown to theoretical linguistics- in the next section.Semantic information is coded primarily in the form ofmeaning rules, but we have not included these in our lexicaldatabase yet, as we are still experimenting with differentkinds of information and representations before we go tolarge-scale coding.
We also hope that, at least to some ex-tent, the acquisition of such information can be automated(cf.
the approach taken by Wirth (1984)).2.3 SourcesFor the purpose of our particular application, we need tocover the vocabulary occurring in German traffic law.However, to meet the goal of general applicability, it is alsonecessary to include the core of the general German voca-bulary.
We will try therefore to code the relevant legalwords based on texts from this very domain.
In addition -and this is the greater problem - we must try to define whichwords pertain to the common vocabulary.As a first step, we have compiled a preliminary list ofthe 4000 most frequent German words from an existingfrequency dictionary (Meier (1967)) and news texts.Later, we will make frequency counts of representativesamples of texts to arrive at a more reliable list of words.?
IBM Germany has a dictionary of 70,000 entries con-taining morphological and hyphenation information.436?
The vocabulary of the application area, i.e.
from thelegal domain, stems from the following sources:?
A collection of relevant court decisions (from ourstudy partner),?
A number of accident descriptions collected fromnewspapers,?
A few word lists used for document retrieval fromboth the Legal and Public Relations departments ofIBM Germany.?
We plan to investigate to what extent machine-readabledictionaries or legal texts can be used for an automaticor semi-automatic a quisition of lexical and grammaticalinformation and of common-sense knowledge.2.4 Layout of the Dictionary RelationIn our word database, every word constitutes an entry, andmost columns in the entry contain information concerning aparticular word.
Even though semantic aspects are notcoded in this particular version, one may regard the codesas a representation of a word's morphological and syntacticmeaning.
Some words have more than one entry: to codemultiple entries becomes necessary when different gramma-tical feature sets have to be assigned to one lemma.All words are contained in a single table or relation.
Onecould also envisage a separate table for every part of speech;however, this would be rather inconvenient, as it would beimpossible to compare grammatical phenomena cross dif-ferent categories.
Also it may be desirable to look at wordsof the same root but belonging to different parts of speech.With this necessity in mind, we designed an overall, generalrelation which would contain all words.
In order to treat thewords individually and according to their specific needs, aso-called "view" was defined for each part of speech.
Thepresent structure of the relation is described in Figure 1.2.5 Tools and AidsTo facilitate coding and to ensure its accuracy, we use thefollowing tools:Editing: A Dictionary Editor (a menu-driven program run-ning under ISPF (IBM 1982) interacting with the SQL/DSdatabase) was developed to facilitate adding, updating, de-leting, and checking of entries at the terminal.Under this editor, a specific set of menus and help panelswas implemented for nouns, verbs, and adjectives.
Whereasthe main menus contain only short hints to the grammaticalinformation as a sort of reminder to the lexicographer, helpmenus give more detailed examples for the individual codes.Subpanels, as extensions to the main panel for input, anderror messages also assist the lexicographer.
Codes arc ve-rified by the Dictionary Editor to keep down the error rate.Queries, Reports, and Files: Independently of the DictionaryEditor, the lexicographers work with the standard databaseinterfaces ISQL (IBM 1983) and QMF (IBM 1983, 1984)to query, extract, recover, and to view the contents of theword database.
QMF is used to select information and toformat, display, and write reports.
- The style of data dis-play is easy to understand, so that persons who are notexperts in data processing but are competent linguists canexamine and alter the linguistic description according toGeneral Description Field in Database Noun Verb AdjectiveLermna (may not be empty)Current number of entryPart of SpeechMORPIIOLOGY:Morphological codesMorphological codesSYNTAX:Possible complement(s)Prepositions governed: alternating or cumulativeUp to 4 adverbiMsComplement Clauses introduced by "dab ~Complement Clauses: hKinitive introduced by "zu"Logical Subject of infinitive clauseComplement Clauses introduced by "ob"Different for each part of speech:Different for each part of speech:Different for each part of speech:Different for each part of speech:Obligatory Coml}lcmentsSubject AreaSource: Userid of who coded; origin of entryFrequency CountSource of Frequency CmmtLevel of StyleStem for 1st Entry:Secondary Stems:11yphenationDate of last Update5 additional, not yet used fieldsWORT Infinitive NominativeCONT # #CAT N VERBMORPII1 Declension code Sets of suffixesMORPtI2 Alternative declension Syntax dud scope ofstemsSYNTA 1 .. ValencySYNTA2-5 Preposition PrepositionSYNTB 1-4 place/temporal/modal place/temporal/modalSYNTB5 case/preposition case/prepositionSYNTB6 case/preposition case/prepositionSYNTB7 case/preposition case/prepositionSYNTB8 case/preposition case/prepositionSYNTB9 Gender Separable PrefixSYNTB 10 Alternate Gender ReilexivitySYNTC1 .. Inlpersomd Subject onlySYNTC2 Usage of ParticipleSYNTC3 .o xSIJItJECT x xSOURCE x xFREQ x xFREQS x xSTYLE x xXREF Nominative Singular lmqnitive without ~-(e)n",without separat}lc prefixXREF (cont'd) Plural Furm lml}erfect, Past Participle'I'RI{NN x xI)ATUM x x141,F2,F3,F4,1;5 .
.
.
.Positive#ADJScope of stem formDeclension classValencyPrepositionplace/temporal/modalcase/prepositioncase/prepositioncase/prepositioncase/prepositionnot used attributivelynot used adverbiallynot used predicativelyxxxxxxPositive(kadationxxFig.i: Structure of the Word Relationtheir particular needs.It is part of the work of a lexicographer to account for allgrammatical constructions within which a word may ap-pear.
To achieve this, the lexicographers consult standarddictionaries such as Duden (1976-1981) and BrockhausWahrig (1980.. 1984), but  most importantly,  they consult thetexts mentioned above in the form of a concordance whichwe generate dynamically.3 Syntactic InformationThe restrictions on co-occurrence with other words (orphrases) is what we consider to be syntactic information.Here we include information on government (or valency)and on adverbials (or attributes) which serve to subclassifythe various parts of speech.
Our work is based on the workof Fillmore (1968), Gross (1984), Heidolph et al (1980),Steini~ (1969), Bierwisch (1963), Helbig and Schenkel(1975), Sommerfeldt and Schreiber (1977, 1980), and onZoeppritz (1984).For the practical work on a dictionary, it is of utmost im-portance to make fully explicit the criteria for the differentclassifications used.
Such criteria are notoriously difficultto extract from theoretical as well as practice..orientedworks.3,1 GovernmentGerman verbs can be classified according to the objects theygovern (accusative (A), dative (D), genitive (G), prepositio-nal object (P), predicate noun or adjective (N)).
We decidedto include also the subject (N) among the complements go..verned by the verb.
A similar classification can be carriedout for adjectives (they govern cases as well as prepositions)and for nouns (which govern prepositional attributes; geni-tive attributes are not coded but admitted for every noun).While some of the complements may be missing in a sen-tence, others must be regarded as obligatory, and this mustbe coded in the dictionary as well.
So we code two featuresindicating the maximum and the minimum of complementsof a given word.
This is illustrated by the adjective iiberlegen(superior) which gets the maximal code DP and the minimalcode ZZ (nil):(D) (P)Paul ist uns im Weitsprung fiberlegen.
(Paul is superior to us in the long jump.
)Paul ist im Weitsprung/iberlegen.Paul ist uns fiberlegen.Paul ist fiberlegen.There are a number of problems in determining what com-plements can be governed by a given verb.
We will discusshere the problcm with datives, and in the section on adver-bials we will discuss the problem of how to distinguish bet-ween adverbials and prepositional objects.437It was noted by case grammarians (but also to some extentin traditional grammar) that datives perform different func-tions ("semantic roles"), and that only some of them shouldbe regarded as subeategorizing the class of verbs; the othersare sometimes called "free" datives which are exemplified byethical: Wirf mir die Vase nicht weg.
(Be sure not to throw the vase away)possession: Paul brach mir den Arm.
(Paul broke my arm)benefactive: Paul fibersetzte mir den Brief(Paul translated the letter for me)responsibility: Die Vase ist mir zerbrochen.
(The vase broke during the time I had it)(cf.
also Heidolph et al (1980) for a discussion and Wegener(1985)).Free datives are never obligatory, but all other criteria so farare only semantically motivated and are - particularly in thecase of the benefactive - not very well defined.
But still, freedatives can be taken into account by the grammar and canthus be attached to any suitable verb.3.2 Complement ClausesIn accordance with Bierwisch (1963) and Heidolph et al(1980), we consider complement clauses as filling the posi-tions of nominal complements.
The complement clauses weconsider are daft (that) clauses, ob (whether) clauses, andinfinitive clauses (pure infinitives and infinitive clauses in-troduced by zu (to)).
Bierwisch was first in subcategorizingGerman verbs according to the implied subjects of the infi-nitive clauses they govern.
Consider the following examplesin EnglishJohn permitted Paul to leaveJohn persuaded Paul to leaveThis is problematic, however, with some verbs in Germanwhen the infinitive clause contains modal verbs.
ConsiderEr flehte sie an zu gehen(he begged her to leave)with the implied subject sie, andEr flehte sie an, gehen zu dfirfen(He begged her to be permitted to leave)with the implied subject er.
This shift of implied subjectmust be coded in the lexicon (for verbs like diirfen), so thatthe code can be used by the syntax rules for complex verbs.A second problem concerns cases where an implied subjectcannot be found in the matrix clause as inPaul ordnete an, den Saal zu rfiumen(Paul ordered the room to be cleared)Es ist verboten, den Rasen zu betreten(it is forbidden to walk on the lawn)There are two different phenomena involved: The dativegoverned by verbieten, would be the implied subject, but438happens to be omitted, whereas anordnen does not govern acandidate for implied subject.
If there is no suitable candi-date in the context, we get a generic interpretation, and wecode our complement features accordingly.3.3 AdverbialsOur approach to adverbials is closely related to the onetaken by Steinitz (1969) and Heidolph et al (1980), which -to us - seems far better motivated than e.g.
the classificationin Brockhaus Wahrig (1980-1984).
Certain types of adver-bials we consider to be governed by certain verbs, nouns andadjectives, and these are hence used for subcategorization.They include adverbials ofplace: Paul wohnt in Heidelberg(Paul lives in Heidelberg)direction: Paul geht nach Heidelberg(Paul goes to Heidelberg)modality: Paul benimmt sich schlecht(Paul behaves badly)measure: der Vortrag dauert eine Stunde(the lecture lasts one hour)It has been our tendency to code adverbials only when theyare obligatory, but this certainly does not cover all the in-formation ecessary.A further problem concerns the decision between adverbialand prepositional object.
Criteria for this distinction havebeen described by Steinitz (1969) and Heidolph (1980): theymainly involve observations on the role prepositions play -their variability and whether they have retained their mea-ning.
ConsiderPaul stood on the tablePaul insisted on the tableIn the first case, we could have near, under, by, etc.
insteadof on whereas in the second case, we do not have a choice.3.4 Coding ExampleThe following example shows the test questions and corre-sponding coding decisions for verbs and adjectives.
Thesample form is iiberlegen, that appears as verb with sepa-rable prefix in the meaning 'to cover', as verb with insepa-rable prefix in the meaning 'to reflect', and as an adjectivemeaning 'superior'.Tests for iiberlegen 'to cover':Prefix: separable or not?legt fiber -- hat fibergelegt -- fiberzulegenFull government:Paul legt Maria eine Jacke fiberDative can be left out:Paul will eine Jacke fiberlegenAccusative cannot be left out:*Paul legt der Maria fiber *Paul legt fiberCoding for ftberlegen 'to cover'Stem: legPrefix i~berWord class: VERBGovernment: nominative dative accusativeObligatory: nominative accusativeTesting for iiberlegen 'to reflect':Prefix: separable or not?er fiberlegt -- hal: fiberlegt -- zu fiberlegenFull government:Paul fiberlegt sich einc FrageDative can be left out:Paul fiberlegt eine FrageAccusative can be left out as well:Paul fiberlegtDoes the dative have to be reflexive?
*Paul fiberlegt uns eine FrageThe accusative can be replaced by zu-infinitive, dad andob-clauses:Paul fiberlegt (sich), Maria zu besuchenPaul fiberlegt (sich), dab er Maria besuchen willPaul iiberlegt (sich), ob er Maria besuchen willThe implied subject of infinitive clauses is the main clausesubject:Paul fiberlegt sich, Maria zu besuchenPaul besucht MariaCoding for iitberlegen 'to :reflect':Word class: VERBStem: iiberlegGovernment: nominative dative accusativeClauses: infinitive ,as accusativeimplied subject is nominativedad-clause as accusativeob-clause as accusativeReflexive: dativeObligatory: nominative accusativeTesting for iiberlegen 'superior':Full government:Paul ist Maria irn Weitsprung fiberlegender uns allen im Weitsprung fiberlegene PaulPrepositional can be left out:Paul ist Maria/iberlegender uns allen fiberlegene PaulDative can be omitted as well:Paul ist fiberlcgen ?- der fiberlegene PaulZu-infinitives (marginally) and dad-clauses are possible inlieu of the prepositional.
Clauses inuoduced by ob are notallowed, not even with negation.Paul ist Maria darin fiberlegen,dab er welter springen kann*Paul ist Maria (nicht) darin fiberlegen,ob er weiter springen kannDiese Schrift ist anderen darin /iberlegen,leichter lesbar zu seinThe subject of infinitive clauses is the head of the adjective:der darin, springen zu kSnnen,/iberlegene PaulPaul ist fiberlegenDie Schriff ist der anderen darin /iberlegen,besser lesbar zu scinDie Schrift ist t)esser lesbarThe preposition may not be omitted:*Paul ist Maria/iberlegen,welter springen zu k6nnenThe adjective can be used in predicative and attributiveposition:Paul ist fiberlegen .-- der fiberlegcne PaulCoding for i~berlegen 'superior'.Word class: ADJECTIVEStem: iiberlegenGovernment: dative prepositionalPrepositions: in beiClauses: infinitive as prepositionaldaft-clause as prepositionalRestrictions: no restrictions to predicative or attributiveuse4 Semantic D~ovmationWhen dealing with semantic information wc should distin-guish between the information needed for obtaining a (if'possible) disambiguated logical form and the informationneeded to draw inferenccs from this logical form, eventhough - at least in part o this information may be idcntical.Among the former we include a concept lattice (orhierarchy) and selection restrictions which both are specialcases of the meaning rules wc use to represent common senseand domain knowledge.
(For a dctailcd discussion of ourapproach to knowledge reprcscntation, el.
Guenthncr /Lehmann / Sch6nfeld, 1986).
All of this information weencode as Prolog tcrms, and we also store these in SQL/DS,but separate from the word relation described above.We give an example here of thc conccpt hierarchy currcntlyused in our Natural Language Analyzcr.
("bt" stands forbroader term, the period in the third rule indieatcs a com-pound tcrm):bt( angek lagt, mens oh).bt(fahrz:mg, fortbewegungsmJttel).bt( fortbewegungsmittel,hergestelit, objekt).439This hierarchy is used in conjunction with the selection re-strictions listed below to disambiguate sentences, to recoverellipses, and to resolve anaphoric references.
(The formatof the selection restrictions is: Lemma, reading, state vs.event, list of restrictions for the respective complements,including an indication whether the verb is distributive (dist)or collective on a given complement):verb(abbremsen,l,event,nom(dist,fortbewegungsmittel).nil).verb(abbremsen,2,event,nom(dist,mensch).acc(dist,fortbewegungsmittel).nil).Wirth (1984) has described a procedure to extend a concepthierarchy and selection restrictions from text on the basis ofgiven sentences.
In his procedure, human intervention is stillrequired, and it seems doubtful at this point whether a fullyautomatic procedure is feasible.
Further, one observes acertain discrepancy between linguistic usage and logicalbehavior of certain words.
We are investigating ways toovercome these problems, but a discussion of them has tobe left to forthcoming publications.5 ConclusionsWe have described the design of a lexical database to beused with a natural  anguage based expert system, discusseda number of problems we encountered when coding syntac-tic information for words, and also mentioned where add-tional work needs to be done in order to achieve a compre-hensive dictionary for language processing.By November 1985, we coded morphological and syntacticinformation for some 5,500 nouns, approximately 3,000verbs, and 3,500 adjectives.
Our next steps are to fully in-tegrate the lexical database with the rest of our prototype toimprove our concordance programs, and to continue thedevelopment of criteria for syntactic subcategorization.AcknowledgementWe want to thank B. Endres, A Franzke, S. Goeser, D.Jacob, E. Latniak, W. Pietschkc, S. Ritzenfeld, G. Schfilzke,A.
Storrer, and especially K. Horlfinder for the work theydid in developing the Dictionary Editor, coding dictionaryentries, and for their help and suggestions in formulatingcriteria for coding.
Without them, this paper would not havebeen possible.ReferencesAlschwee.
B., A. Blaser, He.
and tlu.
Lehmarm, W. Seh6nfeld (1985):"Ein jufistisches Expertensystem it natiirlichsprachlichem Dialog - einPrujektberichU, Proceedings of the International GI Congress '85, Mu-nich, W. Brauer, B. Radig (eds.
): Wissensbasierte Systeme, Informatik-fachberiehte 112, Springer Verlag, Berlin Heidelberg New York Tokyo.Barnett, B.
(1985): "A German Dictionary for a Linguistics and Lo#cBased Legal Expert System", E.O.
Lippmarm (ed.
): Proceedings of theELS Conference on Natural-language Appfieations, IBM Danmark A/S,September 10-15, 1985, section 1 hl-19.Bierwisch, M. (1963): Grammatik des deutsehen Verbs, Studia Gram-matiea II, Akademie Verlag, Berlin.440Brockhans Wahrig (1980 (Vol.l) - 1984 (Vol.6)): Demsches W6rterbuehin sechs B~inden, Wiesbaden, Stuttgart.DUDEN (1976 (Vol.1) - 1981 (Vol.6)): Das groBe W6rterbuch derdeutschen Spraehe, Biblingraphisches Institut Mannheim/Wien/Zfirich,Dudenverlag.Fillmore, C. J.
(1968): The Case for Case, Universals in LinguisticTheory, Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc., New York Chicago SanFrancisco Atlanta Dallas Montreal Toronto London.Gross, M. (1984): "Lexicon-Grammar nd the Syntactic Analysis ofFrench", Proceedings 10th Interuational Conference on ComputationalLinguistic, 22nd At~-nual Meeting of the Association for Computationallfinguisties, Stanford University, California, July 2-6, 1984.
Morristown:Association for Computational Linguistics (order from Dr. D. E. Walker,Bell Communications Research, 445 South Street, Morristown NJ07960), 275-282.Guenttmer, F., tIu.
Lehmann (1984): ~Amomatic Construction of Dis-course Representation Structures ~,Proceedings 10th International Con-ference on Computational Linguistic, 22nd Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, Stanford University, California,USA, July 2-6, 1984.
Morristown: Association for Computational Lin-guistics (order from Dr. D. E. Walker, Bell Communications Research,445 South Street, Morristown NJ 07960), 398-401.Guenttmer, F., It.
Lehmann, W. Schfnfeld (1986): "A theory of repre-senting knowledge", IBM Journal of Research mid Development, Vol.
30No.
1, pp.
39-56Iteidolph, K.E., Fl~nig, W. und Motsch, W. (1980): Grundz(ige inerdeutschen Grammatik, Akademie-Verlag, Berlin, second edition (1984).Ilelbig, G.- Schenkel, W. (1975): W6rterbuch zur Valenz und Distribu-tion deutscher Verben, VEB Bibliographisches In titut, Leipzig.IBM (1983): SOl., Data System, General Information, GH24-5013, In-ternational Business Maelfines Corporation, Endicott, New York.IBM (1982): Interactive System Productivity Facility, General Informa-tion, GC34-2181, International Business Machines Corporation, Cary,North Carohna.IBM (1983, 1984): Query Management Facility, General InformationGC26-4071, International Business Machines Corporation, San Jose,California.Lehmann, H., N. Ott, M. Zoeppritz (1985): "A Multilingual Interface toDatabases", IEEE Database Engineering Bulletin, Vol.
8, No.
3, NewYork.Meier (1967): Deutsche Sprachstatistik, Georg Olms Vedagsbuchhand-lung, Hildesheim.Sedelow, S.Y.
(1985): ~Computational Lexicography", Computers andthe Huma~fities 19, 97-161.Sommerfeldt, K.-E., Schreiber II.
(1977): W~Srterhuch zur Valenz midDistribution deutscher Adjektive, VEB Bibhographisehes In titut, Leip-zig.Sommerfeldt, K.-E., Schreiber H. (1980): W6rterbuch zur Valenz trodDistribution deutseher Substantive, VEB Bibfiographisches lnstitut,I ,cipzig.Steinitz, R. (1969): Adverbial-Syntax, Studia Grammatica X, Akade-mie-Verlag, Berlin.Wegener, H. (1985): Der Dativ im heutigen Deutseh, Narr, Tlibingen.Wirth, R. (1984): Halbautomatische Erweiterung eines bestehenden'Iqmsaurus, diploma thesis, Heidelberg University and FachhoehsehuleHeilbronn.Zoeppritz, M. (1984): Syntax for German in the User Specialty Langua-ges System, Niemeyer, Tiibingen.
