A COMPOSITIONAL APPROACH TO THE TRANSLATION OFTEMPORAL EXPRESSIONS IN THE ROSRTTA SYSTEMLisette hppeloPhilips Research LaboratoriesEindhoven, The NetherlandsAbstractThis paper discusses the translation of temporalexpressions, in the framework of the machine transla-tion system Rosetta.
The translation method ofRosetta, the "isomorphic grammar method', is based onMontague's Compositionality Principle.
It is shownthat a compositional approach leads to a transparentaccount of the complex aspects of time in naturallanguage and can be used for the translation oftemporal expressions.O.Introduct lonIt is a well~known fact that the translation oftemporal expressions in natural languages is not asimple mapping of verbal tenses.
In (I) the DutchSimple Present Tense is used while in (2) a PresentPerfect Progressive Tense is the most appropriatetense to represent the time meanin~ of (i) inEnglish.
A more literal translation of the DutchSimple Present is sometimes considered to be ill-formed, as Illustrated by (3).
But in other casesthat translation yields a perfect result, as shown bythe pair (4)/(5).
(i) Jan woont hier al 20 Jaar(Dutch: John-lives-here-already-2O-years)(2) John has been living here for 20 years(3) * John is living here for 20 years(4) Jan woont hier (John-lives-here)(5) John is living hereIn this paper I will deal with this kind of problemfrom the perspective of machine translation.
Morespecifically, I will sketch a solution within theframework of the Rosetta machine translation project.In this project translation systems are developedbetween Dutch, English and Spanish, using the "iso-morphic grammar" method.
According to this method,the gr~mnmars of the languages are attuned to eachother in such a way that a sentence s is a transla-tion equivalent of a sentence s" if s and s" haveslmJlar der~vational histories (el.
Landsbergen(1984)).In section I I will give a short exposition of theisomorphic grammar method.
Section 2 presents atheory of time in the Rosette framework.
In section 3I will sketch isomorphic grammars for temporal ex-pressions and illustrate them by some examples.Possible extensions will be discussed in section 4.1.
The I sonorph ic  Grammar Method1.2 .
H-GrammarsM-grammars can be seen as a computationally viableand syntactically powerful variant of Montague Gram-mar.
An M-grammar consists of three components: I) asyntactic component, 2) a morphological component and3) a semantic component.I) The syntactic componentThe syntactic component defines a set of S-trees(surface trees) whose leaves correspond to words, insurface order.
An S-tree is an ordered tree withnodes which are labelled with syntactic categoriesand attribute-value pairs.
The branches are labelledwith syntactic relations, e.g.
subject, object, etc.In the rest of this paper I will abbreviate them byspecifying the top node and a characterization of therest of the tree, as:CAT{attribute: value,...} (string)The syntactic component: defines S-trees by spec-ifying:(i) a set of basic S-trees(also called basic expressions)(ii) a set of syntactic rules.Starting from basic expressions larger expressionsare formed by applying syntactic rules.A simplistic example is shown in the left part offigure I.
The S-tree for the sentence the woman issinging is derived from the basic expressions womanand sing by applying rules R I and R .The process of making an expression can be repre-sented by a syntactic derivation tree (D-tree) withthe (names of the) basic expressions at the terminalnodes and the names of the rules that are applicableat the nonterminal nodes.2) The morphological componentThe morphological component relates lexical S-trees(the leaves of the surface trees) to strings.
So thesyntactic and morphological components together de-fine sentences.I will ignore this component in this paper.3) The semantic componentM-grammars obey the Compositionality Principle, whichstates that the meaning of an expression is afunction of the meaning of the parts of that ex-pression.
The basic S-trees and all other S-trees canbe given a model theoretical interpretation: thebasic expressions correspond to semantic values in asemantic domain and the rules to semantic operations.We can represent this in a semantic derivation treethat corresponds to the syntactic D-tree and that islabelled with the names of the meanings of the basicexpressions at: the terminal nodes and the names ofthe semantic operations at the nonterminal nodes.(cf.
figure i)M-grammars must satisfy certain conditions to allowfor effective analysis next to generation.
For moredetails the reader is referred to Landsbergen (1982,19~4).1.2.
T rans la t ing  wi th  :Lsomorphle M-grammarsThe translation relation between two (or more) lan-guages is defined by attuning their grammars asfollows:(i) For each basic expression of a grammar there isat least one corresponding basic expression of theother grammar with the same meaning.313(ii) For each syntactic rule of a grammar there is atleast one corresponding syntactic rule of the othergrammar, with the same meaning.The correspondence between rules is only required for"meaningful" rules.
Syntactic transformations can headded for each language separately and do not occurin the derivation trees.In terms of derivation trees: for each syntacticderivation tree of a grammar there is at least onesyntactic derivation tree of the other grammar withthe same geometry and labelled with correspondingbasic expressions and syntactic rules.
These syn-tactic derivation trees correspond to the same seman-tic derivation tree and are called isomorphic deriva-tion trees.Two sentences are defined as translations of eachother if they have the same semantic derivation treeand therefore corresponding derivation trees.
(Notethat the definition is given for isolated sentenceson the basis of linguistic knowledge only: in fact a"possible translation" relation is defined, possiblein some context.
)Grammars that are attuned in this way are calledisomorphic M-grammars if the corresponding sets ofrules satisfy certain applicability conditions, suchthat for each well-formed syntactic derivation treein a grammar there is at least one well-formedsyntactic derivation tree in other grammars.
(Aderivation tree is well-formed if it defines asentence, i.e.
if the rules are applicable.
)figure IEnglish 17~ Dutch-----RI b2- ~ i B2 \ [ ~sing zi\[ngen~--b l  BI "II !
~Sn ~ICOUWsynt.
D-tree s6m.
\])-tree synt.
D-treeIn figure 1 a simple unambiguous - example ofisomorphic grammars for English and Dutch is given.The Rosetta translation systems are based on iso-morphic grammars.
The semantic derivation trees func-tion as an intermediate language (IL).
Generative andanalytical components can be derived from the gram-mars: the analytical component maps a sentence of thesource language into one or more semantic D-trees;the generative component maps a semantic D-tree intoone or more sentences of the target language.In this paper the translation relation is discussedfrom a purely generative point of view.
The semanticswill be treated rather informally and I will es-pecially discuss the correspondence of the syntacticrules and show the development of parallel deriva-tions of sentences.2.
A T ime theory  for Roset taA linguistic analysis of temporal expressions, inparticular an MT approach that presumes an inter-lingua, requires some level of representation that is314neutral with respect to the morpho/syntactic meansfor expressing time in natural language.
As I preferto adhere tc the current notions developed in theliterature, I will discuss the relevant data in theperspective of the model-theoretical analyses putforward is e.g.
Reichenbach (1947), Comrie (1976),Van Eynde e.ao (1985), Oversteegen and Verkuyl(1985), Bruce (1972), De Vuyst (1983).2.1.
Temporal expressionsTemporal expressions consist of:tense, a linguistic category which consists ofmorphological forms of the verb (e.g.
worked, works)or of auxiliary verb forms in combination withcertain morphological fomns of the verb which I call"periphrastic tenses" (e.g.
has worked, is working;Spanish: e_st~ trabajando).time adverbials, liugnistie categories consistingof time adverbs, prepositional phrases or time con-junction phrases.2.2.
The time modelI will assume that all temporal expressions have afunction in relating the event described by a sen-tence or a clause to a time model.
Vor presentpurposes a simplified specification of the featuresof the mode\] I assume suffices.
(For definitions seee.g.
Bruce (1972))This time model T is a partially ordered set of whichthe elements are called time points.
The orderingrelation is "<", meaning "earlier than".
For thismodel we define a notion interval.
Intervals aresubsets of T without any gaps or branches.One of those points is called S, the moment of speechor narration.The "objects" to be located in T will be calledevents.
An event is something that can be located intime, dependent on the temporal ingredients of thesentence that refers to the event.
For example inorder to establish the truth value of John has beenliving here for 20 years, we need to locate the event"John's living here" in T.An event is assumed to correspond to an interval E ofT.
We will say that the event is located in T Whenthe relation between E and S can be established.
Thisrelation can be complex in the sense that moreintervals than E and S can be involved.
Such inter-vals are called reference intervals.Intervals can be characterized by properties indica-ting e.g.
the "length" or "duration" of an interval,a particular relation to S or a part of the calendar.These properties are expressed by adverbials orspecial (auxiliary) verbs.The event which corresponds to the interval E hastemporal properties which are often called"Aktionsart" in the literature.
Both the main verband its arguments of the clause which expresses theevent may play a role in the determination of theAktionsart (cf.
Verkuyl (1972)).Usually four types of Aktionsart are be distinguished(ef.
e.g.
De Vuyst (1983)) as is illustrated in thefollowing examples:(6) This book belongs to me (stative)(7) John is working (activity)(8) John wrote a letter (accomplishment)(9) He reached the end of the street (achievement)The event in (6) is durative; it can take place at anarbitrarily long interval.
In (7) the event isdurative, but it cannot be claimed to take place onlyat a time point (i.e.
a minimal interval) in themodel; it :Is dynamic which implies some progress orchange.
The event in (8) is terminative, because theresult or end is indicated; it can be looked at fromthe "outside" as a unit, but it cannot be claimed totake place at a time point in the model; it isdynamic when looked at from the "inside" (activity).In (9) the event is terminative, because the end orresult is indicated but Jt is also claimed to takeplace at a time point in the model and therefore alsocalled momentary?There are two important types of relations betweenintervals:I) the deictic relation: relation between a referenceinterval and S2) the aspectual relation: relation between E and areference intervalThese relations are expressed by morphological andperiphrastic tense.2.3.
T ime in Roset taFor definin~ the translation of temporal expressionsin the Rosette framework, we have to write isomorphiccompositional grammars for them, which boils down to:a) specifying for each language:(i) temporal expressions (time adverbials etc.)
ex-pressing properties of time intervals,(ii) syntactic rules (e.g.
tense rules) that indicatehow temporal expressions must and can be combined,expressing relations between those intervals,b) attuning these expressions and rules of thelanguages involved to each other ~n the way describedin section \].Before specifying these grammars in section 3 I willbriefly discuss the motives for the strategy followedin these grammars and for the particular choice ofreference intervals.I.
Tenses and adverbials cannot be translated inde-pendently:- Sometimes the translation of a tense is onlycorrect if it occurs with a certain time adverbial.Consider for example the pair (i0)/(ii):(i0) Jan werkt bier al 3 jaar (Pres.
Tense)(11) John has been working here for 3 years(Pres.
Perf.
Prog.
Tense)The corresponding tense of the Dutch Present Tense inthe context of the time adverbial al 3 jaar in (i0),is in English a Present Perfect Progressive Tense asin (Ii).
But without that time adverbial the trans-lation is different as is sho~1 in the examples(12) - (14):(12) Jan werkt (Pres.
Tense)(13) John is worklng (Pres.
Prog.
Tense)(14) *John has been working (Pres.
Perf.
Prog.
Tense)- Adverbla\]s are not always translated into adverb-ials.
Consider for example the pair (15)/(16):(15) English: He has just arrived.
(16) Spanish: E1 acaba de llegar.In (15) the adverb Just expresses the "near past",but in (16) a special verb acabar de which could beconsidered as a part of some perifrastic tense isused.Those examples are an indication that the grammarsfor temporal expresions should take Into accoun\[tenses and time adverbials together.2.
Van Eynde et al (1985) give a specification oftime meaning representation for machine translation,based on a time model with three intervals, E, R andS, which results in time meaning representations thatdo take into account time adverbials.In their time model, however, the set of aspectualrelations, relations between E and R, contains nextto tile retrospective relation (E before R) theimperfective relation (E contains R).
This seemsinadequate in view of sentences that can have both animperfective and a retrospective aspectual relationas in e.g.
(10) and (ll).The complexit:y of the aspectnal relation is alsorecognized in Maegaard (1982) where a special valueCONTINUOUS for the attribute RETROSPECTVE was intro-duced for the translation of verbal tenses.Krauwer and Des Tombe (1985) make similar observa-tions.I propose therefore that in the Rosetta frameworkI) a time meaning representation obligatorily willcontain an aspeetual relation, i.e.
a relation be-tween E and a reference interval R~, which will becalled perfective if E is a subset ~ R E andimperfee--t~ve~f~R~ is a subset of E , and~) t~at .it can t"bptionally contain a retrospectiverelation between R E and a time p~int RS, which issone "local l?
}Int of evaluation" , meaning that ~(lasts until R S.This R_ is an arbitrary point of some referenceInterval.
Consider for example-(17) Yesterday John had been living there for 3 yearsThe 3 years (RE) last until some point duringyesterday (Rs).If there is no retrospective relation, R S will he anarbitrary point of R F.Between R S and S th~ d~-~ctic relation is specified:Past (R e 'is before S), Present ( R S is simultaneousW~ s)%r ~:,~F~r~ ~H s is ~t~T s).So a time meaning representation of an event inRosetta will eonsist of:- properties of E and R Ean aspectual relation"between E and R Eoptionally a retrospective relation between R E andR S- a' deictic relation between R S and SIn the next section grammars for temporal expressionswill be discussed which start with a clause and applyrules that will first specify the properties for E,then the aspectual relation and the properties forR E, then optionally the retrospective relation andfinally the deictic relation.3.
Isounorphle.
g rammars  for  tempora l  express ions3.1.
Cor resp .nd ing  rules for temporal  express ionsTo achieve i,~omorphy of grammars for temporal ex-pressions, corresponding rules for the languages ofthe system have to be written as was explained insection I.
These rules are applied to a clause whichconsists of a verb, its arguments and an attributeAktionsart, the value of which has been specifiedduring the composition of the clause.
The result ofthe application of the rules is a clause withspecified tense forms, auxiliaries and adverbials.Semantically, properties of and relations between315time intervals and the event are specified.
The ruleshave one argument~ a clause, or two arguments, aclause and an adverbial or an auxiliary verb that wewish to introduce categorematically.I will distinguish five classes of rules.
The rulesare either obligatory (OB)~ meaning that exactly oneof this class of rules is applied, or optional (OP).The rules will be applied in the following order(from a generative, compositional point of view).I.
Aktionsart rules (OP): the application of theserules results in a new clause with a differentAktionsart value caused by some (auxiliary) verb oradverbial that is inserted into the clause.If.
duration rules (OP): These rules insert a dur-ation adverbial into the clause.III.
aspect rules (OB): These rules insert a refer-ence adverbial and specify the aspectual tense forms(perfective or imperfectlve) of the verbs.IV.
retrospective rules (OP): These rules are appliedto a clause that contains some retrospective refer-ence adverbial.
It inserts another, non-retrospectlvereference adverbial and adds, if necessary, auxiliaryverbs and/or adverbials.V.
deictic rules (OB): These rules determine thedeictic tense form of the verbs in the clause.In 3.3. the rules will be discussed in more detail.3.2.
The S-treesA clause is represented as an S-tree with a top nodeCL that has the following temporal attributes andcorresponding value sets in all languages:Aktionsart: {stative, activity,accomplishment, achievement}aspect: {imperfective, perfective, unmarked}deixis: {present, past, future, unmarked}retrospeetivity: {-retro, q-retro~(the underlfned value is tile initial value).A clause contains a VERB node with attribute-valuepairs concerning the verb form, which may differ overlanguages.A clause represents an event with time interval E."lq~e other temporal expressions may be of variouscategories: e.g.
ADVP, PP, NP or CONJP (a timeconjunction and a clause).They are marked at the topnode for temporal prop-erties by the following attributes:class: {duration, reference}deixis: {present, past, future~ unmarked}aspect: {perfective, imperfective}retrospectivity: {+retro, -retro}- Adverbials of the duration class will always havethe value unmarked for their deixis and -retro fortheir retrospectivity attribute.
They indicate aproperty of the in terva l  E. Perfective durationadverbials specify the duration of the event, imper-fective the duration of an interval during which theevent takes place.
For example:PP{class: duration, aspect: imperfective,deixis: unmarked, retrospectivity: -retro}(in three hours)- Reference adverbials indicate properties of inter-vals R. If their deixis attribute has the valueunmarked, they are called absolute, indicating thatthere are no restrictions on the relations of theinterval with S, otherwise they are called deictic,indicating that the interval has a certain relationwith S. If their retrospective attribute has thevalue +retro, they are called retrospective, indi-cating that the interval has the relation until tothe reference point R S. For example:316ADVP{class: reference, aspect: imperfective,deixis: past, retrospeetivity: -retro}(yesterday)Absence of adverbialsClauses do not always contain explicit adverbials:a) In case of isolated clauses without referenceadverbials we will assume an abstract deictic refer-ence adverbial which indicates the moment of speechS:REF{class: reference; deixis: present;aspect: perfective; retrospectivity: -retro}()In general, clauses or sentences occur in texts andreference adverbials can have scope over subsequentclauses.
For those latter clauses we will assume thatthey have abstract anaphoric reference adverbialswith the properties of their antecedents.b) In case a reference interval is indicated that hasthe property that it ranges over the whole time axisuntil some reference point RS, we assume an abstractadverbial:PAST {class: reference; deixis: unmarked;aspect: imperfective;retrospectivity: +retro} ()3.3.
The rulesI will now give an informal description of each typeof rule containing an account of syntactic andsemantic aspects and the differences between Dutch,English and Spanish.I.
Aktionsart rules (OP).
~ley change the Aktionsartand insert (complex) auxilisry verbs or adverbs,and/or determine the form of the verb.
Semantically,a new event is derived from the original event.For exmnple, an accomplishment event can be trans-formed into a non-terminatlve event.
Compare:Eng: (18) CL (John write a letter) -->CL (,John be writing a letter)Du: (19) CL (Jan een brief schrijven) -->CL (Jan een brief aan het schrijven zijn)This is sometimes called the "locative tense"; therules insert:in Dutch: aan het VERB{fonn: Infinitief}zijnin Spanish: estar VERB{form: gerundio}in English: be VERB f\[~rm: ingform}They change the Aktionsart value to stative (due tothe auxiliary).II.
duration rules (OP).
These rules are applied toan S-tree with a certain Aktionsart value and aduration adverbial with a certain aspect value thatis inserted in the clause.
The aspect value of theclause will now be perfective.This rule applies the property denoted by the adverb-ial, to the interval E0For example:(20) CL (John write for three hours)III.
aspect rules (OB).
Rules with two arguments: I)a clause with a certain Aktionsart and aspect and 2)a (possibly anaphoric) reference adverbial with acertain aspect.
They determine the imperfeetive andperfective verb forms, sometimes with auxiliaries.The aspectual verb forms can differ over languages.English seems to have perfective simple tense forms;the imperfective forms are composed with the auxili-ary be.
Spanish has clear imperfective and perfectivepast tense forms.
In Dutch the verb fo~1 does notseem to distinguish between imperfective and perfec-tive.The aspect value of the clause unmarked has to bechanged into perfective or imPerfective.
The refer-ence adverbial is inserted into the S-tree.Semantically, the property denoted by the adverbialis applied to the interval R~ and the relationbetween the intervals E and R E i~ expressed.Example:(21) CL (Ayer Juan ley6 un libro.)
(perfective)(Yesterday-John-read-a-book)(22) CL (Ayer Juan lela un llbro.)
(imperfeetive)(Yesterday-John-was-reading-a-book)IV.
retrospeetivity rules (OP).
Rules that have twoarguments: 1) a clause with a certain aspect and areference adverbial that has the retrospectivltyvalue +retrn (this may be PAST), and 2) a (possiblyanaphoric) reference adverbial that has the retro-spectivity w11ue -retro.
They insert auxiliary verbssuch as have (hebb~jn  (Dutch), haber (Spanish)),if necessary.
In English have must always be in-serted.
In Dutch and Spanisll it is obligatory if theaspect value is perfective.
So these languages havetwo rules: one for perfective and one for imperfee-tive clauses.
The reference adverbial is inserted inthe S-tree.The rules that insert have just (English) zojuisthebben/zijn (Dutch) and acabar de (Spanish), underthe condition that the clause contains the abstractadverbial PAST and the aspect value perfective, toexpress near-retrospectivity, be\]ong to this class.Semantically, these rules apply the property denotedby the adverbial to R S and express the relation untilor "near~until" of RE,' (indicated by the re t rospec~adverbial) to R .SEx am pl e :(23) CL (REF John have just read this book.
)(24) CL (REF Juan acabar de leer este libro.
)(25) CL (REF Jan dit boek zojnist gelezeu hebben)V. deietic rules (OB).
These rules are applied to aclause with a reference adverb ia l .
( that  can beanaphorie), \[nserted by rules of type IIl or IV.
Theydetermine present, past and future forms of theverbs, sometimes with insertion of an auxiliary verbform, for example will for future in English, afterchecking if the deictic ~alue of the referenceadverbial is compatible.Semantically, the relation between Ro (a subset ofthe interval indicated by the reference adverbial inthe clause) and S is expressed.
The deietic relationsare: present (R~ is simultaneous with S), past (R S isbe for~d f~ture (R~ is after S).
In these rHlesthe abstract adverbi-~als'~will be deleted.Example:(26) John read a book yesterday(27) *John has read a book yesterday(28) John had read a book yesterday3.4.
ExamplesI will now give some examples of parallel derivationsof sentences with temporal expressions that aretranslation equivalents.
I will leave out irrelevantspecification of nodes.Example: (29) John has been writing for 2 hoursExample application of syntactic rules for EnglishRI: (imperfective aspect rule)CL{Aktionsart: activity, aspect:unmarked,deixis: unmarked, retrospectivity: -retro}(John write)+ PP{deixis: unmarked, aspect: perfective,retrospectivity: +retro~ class: reference}for 2 hours)--> CL ..., aspect: perfective,...}(John be writing for 2 hours)R2: (retrospective rule)CL{..., retrospectivity: -retro}(John be writing for 2 hours)+ REF{deixis: present, aspect: perfective,retrospectivity: -retro,class: reference}()--> CL{..., retrospectivity: +retro}(John have been writing for 2 hours REF)R3: (present deictic rule for finite clause)~{deix is :  unmarked,...}(John have been writing for 2 hours)--> CL{deixis: present,...}(John has been writing for 2 hours)figt~e 2synt.
D-tree s~t.
D-treePP (\], ADVP CLJohn write Jan schrijvenFigure 2 contains the isomorphic syntactic D-treesfor the English sentence (29) and its Dutch transla-tion equivalent :(30) Jan schr~jft al 2 uur(Dutch: John=writ es-already-2-hour s)The Dutch rules differ from the English ones in thatR "1 does not insert an auxiliary for the imperfectivefo~m as in English.
It results in: Jan a l  2 uurschrijven.
R', differs from R also with respect to~e introoduct~on of the auxiliary verb.
lu Dutch itis not necessary to insert hebben/zijn if the clausehas imperfective aspect.
R" 2 results in: Jan REF al 2uur sebrijven.
R" 3 is l i ke  R3, but in f i~te~c lausesthe las-t~ ve--rh is placed in second position in Dutch:Jan schrijft al 2 uur.flgure 3i~3 ~'3R" 2pp._  l \  / \RJohn write Jan sehrijven(30) is only one of the possible translations of(29): (29) is ambiguous.
The be writing can also bedue to some "Aktionsart rule"--~4 ) corresponding toaan het schrijven zijn (R'4).
The other Dntch trans-lation is:317(31) Jan is al 2 uur aan het schriJven(John-is-already-2-hour s-on~the-wr it ing)The isomorphic D-trees for (29) and (31) are shown infigure 3.But for 2 hours is m, biguous too and can also be aperfective duration adverbial corresponding to theDutch 2 uur.
The duration rules (R~ and R'5) insertthem.
~he ~lause will now have perf~ectlve aspect andthe retrospective adverbial PAST will be introducedby the perfective aspect rule (R~ and R'6).
In Dutchthe retrospective rule R" 7 (different f?om R" 2 butalso corresponding to the English R2) is now applied:the one for a clause with perfective aspect thatinserts the auxiliary hebben/zijn.
The resultingDutch translation equivalent of (29) is:(32) Jan is 2 uur aan bet schrijven geweest(Dutch : John~has-2-hour s-on-the-wr it ing-been)The isomorphic derivation trees are shown in figure4.fig~e 4R 2 "'~R 4 NP~R"  4John writeThe conditions in the rulesunacceptable combinations, e.g.
:(33) *John died for a whilefilter out certain(34) *John was working in three hours(33) is ruled out because for a while is a perfectiveduration adverbial that cannot combine with achieve-ments or accomplishments and (34) because in threehours is an imperfective duration adverbial thatcannot combine with activities and statives.4.
Concluding remarksIt is not possible to treat all temporal expressionsand all translation problems with respect to time inthis paper, but I have sketched a solution as to howto treat them in the Rosetta framework.
I expect thatother "aspectual forms" such as inchoative, termina-tive etc.
can be added at the "Aktionsart level" or"aspect level" and that the current approach, whichallows for translation of adverbs into auxiliaryverbs or combinations of them (and vice versa) willbe sufficient to cope with them.
The time theorypresented here should of course he embedded in adiscourse theory about time.
The anaphoric propertiesshould be seen as a start.
Moreover, the informalspecification of the time model should be given amore formal account.
Other topics that should beelaborated are quantificational, scope, frequency andhabitual aspects, interaction of modality in thefuture time expressions and the time relations be-tween matrix clauses and (intensional) complementclauses or relative clauses.AcknowledgementsThe author would like to thank all members of theRosetta team, particularly Jan Landsbergen andFranciska de Jong, for their helpful comments onearlier versions of this paper.This work was supported in part by a grant from theNederlandse HerstructureringsmaatschappiJ (NRHEM).NotesI) I use the definition of "aspect" of Comrie (1976),but I will take his term "situation" as referring tothe interval E in relation to the reference intervalR E and consider only two possibilities: "perfective"and "imperfective" aspect.
The notion "perfectaspect" which I call 'retrospective aspect" should beaccounted for by other relations.
Probably~ by rela-ting R E to R S with the relation "until".2) This point resembles the point S" in Oversteegenand Verkuyl (1985).3) It is possible that some languages have complexdeictic rules that indicate for example a "past eventwith present relevance".
This is similar to a "pre-sent with retrospective PAST", but differs In thatthe interval R E is not until, but before R e. At themoment I will Ignore the e~-xtra meaning" ~nd treatthem with a deictic past rule, because this phenom-enon seems to \]lave to do with more pragmatic factorssuch as "distance with respect to the event from thespeaker's viewpoint" or knowledge of the world likethe present existence of persons or objects.ReferencesBruce, B., (1972): "A model for temporal referencesand its application in a question answering program'.In: Artificial Intelligence 3, \] -25.Comrie, B., (1976): Aspect: an Introduction to theStudy of Verbal Aspect and Rela--~d Prob lems.~am-nlvers ty ress , -~r~-~g~.Dowty, D.R., (1979): Word Meaning and MontagueGrammar.
Reidel Vol.
7q--.
~ ~ .Krauwer, S. and L. des Tombe, (1985): "Composi-tionality'.
In: Dehaan, G. and W. Zonneveld (eds.
):Formal Parameters of Generative Grammar.
I. YearbookLandsbergen, J., (1982): "Machine Translation basedon Logically Isomorphic Montague Grammars'.
In: J.Horecky (ed.
), COLING 82 North Holland, p. 175-182.Landsbergen, J., (1984): "Isomorphic Grammars andtheir use in the Rosetta Translation system'.
Paperpresented at the Tutorial on Machine Translation,Lugano.
Philips Research M.S.
12.950, to appear in:King, M.
(ed.
), Machine Translation: The State of theArt, Edinburgh Un-ivTr-s~\[Ty Press.Maegaard, B., (1982): "The Transfer of Finite Formsin a Machine Translation System'.
In: AbstractsCOLING 82, p. 190-194.Oversteegen, L. and H.J.
Verkuyl, (1985): Detemporele zinsstructuur van bet Nederlands: tweetijdsbanden'.
In GLOT.Reichenbach, H., (1947): Elements of Symbolic Logic.University of California Press,Van Eynde, F., L. des Tombe and F. Maes (1985):"Specification of time meaning for machine transla-tion'.
Proceedings ACL conference, Geneva.Verkuyl, H.J., (1972): On the Compositional Nature ofthe Aspects.
Dordrecht.Vuyst, J. de, (1983): "A Semantic Analysis of Tem-poral Elements in Dutch and English'.
Diss.
RUG,Groningen.318
