LINKING PROPOSrFIONSDo S. Brae & R .A .
SmitRotterdam School of Management, Erasmus University, P.O.B.
1738, NL-3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands.This research was partially funded by the Netherlands Organization for the Advancement of Pure Research.KEYWORDS: Semantics, Subordinating conjm\]ctions,Language processing, Language universals.ABSTRACTThe function words of a language provide explicitinformation about how propositions are to be related.
Wehave examined a subset of these function words, namelythe subordinating conjunctions which link propositionswithin a sentence, using sentences taken from corporastored on magnetic tape.
On the hasis of this analysis, acomputer program for Dutch language generation andcomprehensien has been extended to deal with thesubordinating,; conjunctions.
We present an overview ofthe underlying dimensions that were used in describingthe semantics and pragmatics of the Dutch subordinatingconjunctions.
We propose a Universal set of LinkingDimensions, sufficient to speeify the subordinatingconjunction.,; in any language.
This ULD is a firstproposal for the representation required for a computerprogram to understand or translate the subordinatingconjunctions of any natural language.I.
IntroductionLanguages provide speakers with the means to expresspropositions and to link these propositions.
Propositionsare expressed in language by means of clauses.
Thesecan form sentences in themselves, or they may be linkedtogether within one sentence, either at tim same levelor embedded one within the other.
It is this lastcategory of linking, by means of subordinateconjunctions, in which we are interested.
Tile questionsthat we ask are:Do languages provide a systematic way of expressingthe possible subordinating links between propositions?If they do, which dimensions cat\] be used to capturethe means that are provided in all languages forthese links?What is this Universal set of Linking Dimensions{ULD)?We have atl:empted to provide a systematic descriptionof the subordinating conjunctions (SCs) in Dutch.
It isthis description that we will use to propose a UI.D.
Atthe top level we have divided the SCs into just fourtypes: inferential, temporal, causal and manner SCs.
Thisis fewer than the dozen or so types found in thetraditional and modern grammars, which give a 'f lat'taxonomic tree, making all tile obvious distinctions atthe first level.
At each branch in the taxonomic tree,we have tried to mal(e as few divisions as possible, inorder to make tile motivation for each split clear.These four categories were chosen because they enablequite different kinds of relationship to be set upbetween a main and a subordinate proposition.
They eachindicate a different function that the subordinateevent/state has in relation to the main predication.
Themost abstract relationship is that of inference, in whichthe speaker uses the sub proposition to give the groundsfor his belief concerning the truth status of the mainproposition.
The other three types indicate more thansimply a relationship between beliefs {propositions); theyconvey the speakerVs beliefs about relationships thatexist qn reality ~.
Two of these are quite specific: timeand cause.
Tile fourth category of SC, manner, alsoserves to indicate that there is a relationship 'in reality'between the sub and main events/states; however, thisrelationship is one that depends highly on the schemathat the observer uses to codify what he sees.We will now describe the sub trees for each of thesefour types of linkage.
The meanings of the Dutch SCs,taken from Van Wijk and Kempen {1980), have beendetermined using:sentences taken from a Dutch corpus (Uit denBoogaard, 1975; shown as e.g.
1.2345);the authoritative Algemene Nederlandse Spraakkunst -ANS (Geerts et al, 1984}.2.
Inferential linkageAn inference relationship exists between two propositionswhen the truth value of one can be deduced from theother.
The grounds for the deduction are left open.
Theymay be based on some causal model of reality:If metal is heated it expands.But they can also be purely definitional:If two angles of a triangle are equal, their oppositesides are equal.The types of inferential linkage depend in the firstinstance on tile truth statas of the main proposition.This may be either true, probably true but with thepossibility of an escape, hypothetically true orcounterfactual.
A false main proposition is not indicatedby an SC but by the use of the past tense and/or amodal auxiliary verb.True.
If the main proposition is true, then the inferencerelation from the sub proposition may be used, denied ordeemed h'relewmt.The tm-e of the inference is indicated in Dutch by theSC aangezien (since):De rector had besloten de school te sluiten aangezienher verbod was overtreden.
(ANS, p.655)(The principal decided to close the school sinc.e theban had been contravened.
)It has been, and still is, customary to classify aangezienas a causal SC (ANS, p.655).
This is incorrect.
CausalSCs can be topicalized, inferential SCs cannot.
Thereason for this distinction is that causal SCs saysomething about reality, whereas inferential SCs areused to make an inference.
This making cannot betopicalized.
Aangezlen, however, like non-temporal since,cannot be topicalized, so it is not causal:*llet is aangezien het verbod was overtreden, dat derector besloot de school te sluiten.An inference relationship \]nay be denied using the SChoewel {although).
Then the normal inference is from thesub proposition to the falsity of tile main proposition:Hoewel her verbod was overtreden, besloot de rectorde school niet te sluiten.
(Although the ban had been contravened, the principaldecided not to close the school.
)The irrelevance of any inference relationship is indicatedby ongeacht (whether ... or not}:Ongeacht of het verbod was overtreden, zou derector hebben besloten de school te sluiten.
(Whether the ban had been contravened or not, theprincipal would have decided to close the school.
)177Escape linkages.
If the speaker wishes to indicate thatthe main proposition is not certainly, hut only probably,true, then an SC can be used to indicate thec i rcumstances under which the main proposition mayindeed by false.
Such SCs provide an ESCAPE from thespeech act being made in the main clause.
This speechact may be an assert ion, in which case the escape isfrom the truth of the main proposition; but any othertype of speech act,  such as a promise, may also beescaped from.
The escape may be either when the subproposition is true, with tenzlj (unless), or when it isfalse, using mtts  (provided that):De oecumene zal niet slagen tenzij het gesprek metIsrael ... wordt gevoerd.
(2.3040)(Ecumenism will not succeed unless there is adialogue with Israel ...)Jongeren kennen een normale behoefte aan gezag ennormen, mits  zij er de zin van weten teontdekken.
(5.3341)(Youngsters have a normal need for author i ty andnorms, provided they can discover their sense.
)Hypothetical  linkage.
If the truths of the main and subpropositions are unknown, an inference relationship fromthe sub to the main proposition can be shown by usingeither als or lndlen (if).
Of these two SCs, als is themore common, but it is ambiguous between several uses(see below); indlen is more formal and emphatic:Als/Indien het verbod is overtreden, zal de rector deschool slutten.
(If the ban has been contravened, the principal willclose the school.
)Figure 1.
INFERENTIAL SCsTruth of the Main PropositionI 1 probably I true unkown or false truel Escape fr?m Sub P', f i t s  Use ?f the inference I or opposite, ,,, to the Main PropositionSub P. opposite HYPOTHETICALESCAPE - ESCAPE + DENIED IRRELEVANT USEDm/ts tenz/j a/s/)nd/en hoewe/ oncjeacht aangez/bnprovided unless if though whether or not sinceCounterfactuals .
Just as with the true inferentiallinkages, the counter factual  inference may be simplyused or denied.
The inference, in this false world, maybe used to infer a main proposition which is true in thisfalse world but false in the actual world:If Eve hadn't  given Adam the apple, he wouldn'thave eaten it.The inference may also be denied to give a mainproposition which is true in both worlds:Even if Eve hadntt given Adam the apple, he stillwould have eaten it.This is a semifactual .
The same SC, als (if), is usedboth for hypothet icals  and counter /semi- factuals .
This isnot the case in all languages, e.g.
Polish, Japanese.In order to indicate that the sub clause does notcorrespond with the truth status of the sub preposition,the tense of sub clause verb is placed one step furtherinto the past than would normally be the case.
That isto say: if the tense would normally be past, past -per fector present -per fect  then it is set to past-perfect ;otherwise it is set to past, With the true counter factua ls(as opposed to the semifactuals)  the fact that the main178clause also does not correspond with the truth s tatus  ofthe main proposition is indicated by using the past-future, i.e.
using the past form of the verb zullen asthe auxil iary f inite verb form:Als Ik geld had, zou lk op rels gaan.
(If I money had, would I travell ing go.
)Moreover the simple (or perfect) past can also be usedto indicate connterfactual i ty:Als lk geld had, glng tk op reis.
(If I had money, I went travell ing.
)Als lk geld gehad had, had ik meer gereisd.
(If I had had money, I had more travelled.
)The ANS (p.468) provides no rule for choosing betweenusing the simple (or perfect) past and using the modalauxil iary zullen.
There are, however, sys temat icd i f ferences (Nteuwlnt, 1984).
More problematic is thatthe simple past tense may indicate one of two things:the Time Of Reference (TOR) is in the past or we aredealing with a counterfactual .
This ambiguity can beresolved by the context:  if the TOR is already in thepresent, then the past tense indicates counterfactual i ty .Summariz ing, we find four types of inferential  linkage,depending on the truth value of the main proposition:true: the inference from a true sub proposition maybe used, denied or deemed irrelevant;probably true: this truth can be escaped, either fromthe sub proposition or from its negation;hypothetical  inference from a sub proposition whosetruth is uncer ta in ;counterfactuals:  an inference from a sub propositionthat is known to be false, to either a false or a truemain proposition.3.
Temporal  l inkageThe temporal SCs specify the t ime of the mainpredication in relation to the t ime of the eventindicated in the sub clause.
The system we have used torepresent the di f ferent possible temporal l inkages isbased on two dimensions: the relat ive temporal  order ofthe main and sub events, and the place of  the mainevent within this restr icted t ime range.Relat ive temporal  order.
A sub clause introduced by atemporal SC is used to restr ict  the t ime during whichthe main proposition is true: the t ime of the main eventmay be at a t ime that is either earl ier than, or laterthan, the t ime of the sub event, or it may becoincidental with the t ime of the the sub event.The position within the range.
The place of  the mainevent within this restr icted t ime range is the seconddimension.
It may be either:at some t ime within the proximity of the sub eventl- either immediate ly  adjoining the sub event;- or in the vicinity of the sub event t ime.at some t ime within an interval.
The way the boundsof this t ime interval are Indicated depends on therelationship between the TOR and the interval itself.If the TOR is to fall within the interval,  then theduration of the sub event determines the interval.Otherwise the TOR marks one bound of the interval,the other bound being set by the t ime of the subevent.
Again this category has two alternatives:either the main event occurs at some momentwithin the interval;or it occurs for the whole of the interval,  inwhich case the event must be able to have aduration or be repeatable.These four dif ferent places within the t ime range,together  with the three ways of specifying the range,give twelve different possibilities for indicating the timerelationship between the main and sub events.It is not to be expected that any language will have SCsto distinguish between all these twelve possible temporallinkages.
In Dutch three of the relationships cannot beexpressed using an SC.
Moreover, the sub-distinctionsmade in the second dimension are not always made.Figure 2.
TEIVIPORAL S~RDINAT ING CONJUNCTIONSRelation Main event in Main event in intervalof main to proximity of sub: of TOR & sub event:sub event.
Next to Nearby Sometime DurativeEarlier than: voor totdat(before) (until)toen/alsCoincidental: wanneer/nu terwljl zolang(when) (while) (as long as)Later than: zodra nadat Ands sinds(as soon as) (after) (since) (since}The difference between the four SCs als, toen, wanneerand nu requires an explanation:teen is used to set the TOR to some point beforethe time of utterance, and so only occurs when theTOR is in the past (ef.
the use of when as discussedby Kamp, 1981).
The TOR Is set to the time of thesub event;nu is used when the TOR has already been fixed, andan event, the sub event, which happens to becoincidental with the TOR, is a cause or reason forthe main event;als and wanneer are used:for a temporal coincidence after the TOR,without bringing the TOR forward;to indicate a repeated or repeatable temporalcoincidence.Wanneer (when), which hardly ever occurs in spokenDutch except as an interrogative, is temporal.
Als (if) isnot confined to a temporal role, being used also formanner and inferential linkages.
So its use puts theburden of interpretation onto the addressee.We have seen that the temporal linkage is specified ontwo principle dimensions:the time range to which the main event is restrictedmay be before, after or coincidental with the timeof the sub event;the time; of the main event may be related eitherdirectly to the time of the sub event, or it may fallwithin an interval.
In the former case the proximitymay be indicated.
In the latter case the main eventmay be considered to occur once in the interval orduring the whole of the interval.
The interval itselfis bound between the sub ewmt and the TOR, unlessthe TOR falls within the time period of the subevent, In which case the interval is equivalent to theduration of the sub event itself.4.
Causal linkageA temporal linkage is not the only relationship that canbe indicated in reality between the sub and mainpropositions.
A causal linkage can also be made fromthe sub event or state, to the main event or state.There are two main types of causal linkage: teleologicaland ateleological.An ateleological cause Is a purely physical link, i.e.mechanistic, in the sense that no will is posited.
Themechanism operates inevitably, e.g.
gravitation thatcontrols the motion of the planets.
E.g.De peehdag voor de NS ward glsteren noggecompleteerd, oordat op bet centraal station inUtrecht twee machinisten van aanslultendeposttreinen biJ bet wlsselen van treln allebeiprecies in de verkeerde stapten.
(1.5847)(The day of troubles on the railways yesterday waseven more complete, because at the centralstation in Utrecht two drivers of connecting posttrains, when changing trains, each stepped intothe incorrect train.
)An ateleologleal ink may also be proportional: the morethere is of some sub property the more there will be ofthe main property, as in:De dagen lengen naarmate de nachten korten.
(The days lengthen as the nights shorten.
)A teleological link, on the other hand requires that awill be present.
They are volitional.
The being thatexerts tlds will has two components of interest: aperception of his own state and an awareness of his owngoal.
There are, correspondingly, two types ofteleological cause: reason and motive.
Reason isprimarily state controlled, e.g.ttet kwam hem voor dat hij, jutst omdat hlj zogewoon mogelijk wilde doen, zich zo ongewoonvoelde.
(4.1610)(He realized that he, just because he wanted tobehave as normally as possible, felt himself to beso abnormal.
)Motive is primarily goal controlled, e.g.De regering heeft hat bedrag van de steun verhoogdopdat de armsten geen honger zullen lijden.
(Donaldson, 1984, p. 195)(The government has increased the amount of thesupport so that the poorest people will not sufferfrom hunger.
)Note that the description of the goal state is not true,as it has yet to be achieved.
The standard way ofindicating this is to use the conditional auxiliary (zullenwill) in the subordinate clause.
As an illustration ofthe contrast: 'feeling ill' is a reason for going to bed,'to get better '  is a motiw.
~for going to bed.Figure 3.
CAUSAL SC sno l_I Pr?p?rti?nal ii=  ?no yesPHYSICAL PROPORTIONALdoo~at naa/mat~because according asTeleological?
!?
yes\[Sub proposition is goal ino yes?
REASON MOTIVE(zndat omdat opdatbecause because so thatOmdat may be used either for a teleological reason orfor an ateleological mechanistic link.
As a result doordatis used to emphasize an ateleological cause.
In, e.g.Because there were several new dancers in thetroupe, the form of the ballet (was) changed.because would be translated by doordat to indicate thatthe new dancers themselves caused the change; whereasomdat would indicate that the choreographer made thechange to accommodate tile ballet to the new dancers.179We have found that there is a distinction betweenmechanist ic  and volitional causal linkages.
Mechanist iclinks may also be proportional.
Volitional, or teleological,links may be based either on reason or on motive.5.
Manner l inkageThe fourth and last type of l inkage is the least specif ic.The sub proposition indicates something about themanner of the main proposition.
A manner SC is used toadd a descriptor, which includes the sub event or state,to the main proposition.
The principle distinction to bemade is whether this sub event /s ta te  actual ly exists oris (perhaps) imaginary, i.e.
whether the sub proposition istrue or of unknown truth value.True sub proposition.
If the sub proposition is true, theneither the manner of the main proposition is specified asbeing restricted to the same as the manner in the sub:Hij speelt viool zoals hi\] piano speelt.
(He plays violin in the same way as he plays piano.
)or the sub proposition is an addition to the main one:Hij speelt viool evenals zijn vader dat heeft gedaan.
(He plays the violin, just as his father did.
)Non true sub proposition.
If the sub proposition is falseor of unknown truth value then alsof is used:Hij speelt viool alsof hii piano speelt.
(He plays the violin as if he plays the piano.
)Whether the sub proposition is false or merely ofunknown truth value must be determined using thecontext.
The speaker can indicate a false value by usingthe past tense, just as with conditional counterfactuals:Hij speelt viool alsof hi\] piano speelde.
(He plays the violin as though e played the piano.
)Figure 4.
MANNER SUBORDINATING CONJUNCTIONSSub proposition: True Non-trueRestr ict ion zoals (same way as)Addition evenals (just as) alsof (as though)6.
Conclusion.In this analysis of the semant ics  of Dutch SCs, we haveconcentrated on the main aspects in order to distinguishthe wood from the trees.
We have ignored SCs that arearchaic, dialectal or formal.
We have also ignoredsecondary uses of certain SCs, e.g.
that the temporal  SCterwljl (while) can be used to highlight a contrast.
Webelieve that this is not prejudicial to our case.Secondary uses are just that; they are not dif ferentmeanings, as we have argued elsewhere for the non-standard uses of if (Br(e & Smit, 1985).The definition of the meanings of the Dutch SCs isspecif ic enough to be implemented in a sentencegenerat ion program.
We have demonstrated this usingKempen's  Incremental  Procedural Grammar (Hoenkamp,1983).
Our extension (see Br(e, Smit & Schotel, 1984)allows a user to enter  two or more propositions and thetype of relationship between them (inferential, temporal ,causal, manner).
Then it asks questions corresponding tothe semant ic  tree for the corresponding type of SC, inorder to select the appropriate kind of SC (e.g.hypothetical ,  denial, etc.).
The program then uses theselected kind to find the correct SC in Dutch.
So theselection of the kind of SC is independent of thelanguage; the actual SC is selected from a table of SCsbuilt up from the semant ic  definition of each SC withinone language.
Our program can also take a sentence as180input and break it down into main and sub propositions,replacing the linking SC by its language independentsemantic definition.
The important point is that thedefinition of the kinds of SC is language independent.We set out with the aim of establishing a Universal setof Linking Dimensions (ULD) that speakers use in linkingpropositions.
It is the semant ic  trees that provide uswith the ULDs.
There are two levels at which we couldhypothesize universal ity.
The first, the strong hypothesis,is that the trees are the same in all languages.
Thenthe kinds of SCs should be the same in all languages.For Dutch and English this is more or less the case.
Thedi f ferences in the SCs in the two languages come aboutin the di f ferent ambiguit ies that arise because the sameSC is used for more than one kind of relationship (e0g.als ==> if/when, since ==> slnds/aangezlen).
As theseambiguous uses are not the same in the two languages,difficulties arise for translation programs, llowever, thisdoes not negate the strong hypothesis.If it does turn out that there are languages with SCsthat cannot be defined using these trees, then a second,weaker, thesis may hold, namely that the building blocksfrom which the trees are made, are the same in alllanguages.
That Polish and Japanese have SCsspecifically for counterfactual inferences, leads us tosuspect hat it is this second thesis that will be foundto hold.
It will provide tlm basis for constructing ameans for representing the functions performed by SCsin all languages in linking propositions.In either case, why is it that people relate propositionsusing the ULD?
Is it because their brains are soconstructed,  or because their minds ref lect  the nature ofthe environment in which they find themselves?
Is theULD a natural or artif icial phenomenon (Simon, 1981}?REFERENCESBrae, D.S.
& R.A. Smit 1985, Non-standard uses of if.
InThe proceedings of the 2nd Conference of theEuropean Chapter  of the Associat ion forComputat ional  Linguistics.
Geneva: 218-225.Brae, D.S., R.A. Smit & H.P.
Schotel 1984.
Generationand comprehension of Dutch subordinatingconjunctions by computer.
In O'Shea, T., ed.,Proceedings of the 6th European Conference onArtificial IntelIlgence.
Elsevler, Amsterdam: 205-208.Dik, S.C. 1981.
Functional grammar.
Foris, Dordrecht.Donaldson, B.C.
1984.
Dutch reference grammar.
Nijhoff,Leiden.Geerts, G., W. Haeseeryn, J. de Rooij, & M.C.
van denToorn, eds, 1984.
Algemene nederlandse spraakkunst.Wolters-Noordhoff, Groningen, Holland.Hoenkamp, E.C.M.
1983.
Een computermodel van despreker: psychologlsche n llngulstlsche aspecten.Ph.D.
thesis.
Katholieke Universitelt van Nijmegen.Kamp, H. 1981.
A Theory of truth and semanticrepresentation.
In Groenendijk, J.A.G., T.M.V.Janssen, & M.B.J.
Stokhof, eds, Formal methods inthe study of language, vol.
I. Mathematisch Centrum,Amsterdam: 277-322.Nieuwint, P.J.G.M.
1984 Werkwoordstijden in nederlandse"counterfactuals".
De Nleuwe Taalgids, 77(6): 542-555.Simon, H.A.
1981 Sciences of the artificial.
2nd ed.
MITpress, Cambridge.Ult den Boogart, P.C.
1975.
Woordfrequentles vangeschreven en gesproken Nederlands.
Oosthoek,Scheltema en Holkema, Utrecht.Wijk, C. van & G. Kempen 1980.
Funktlewoorden: eeninventarisatie voor het Nederlands.
Review of AppliedLinguistics, 47, 53-68.
