Alan K. MelbyBr igham Young Univers i tyDept.
of L inguist icsProvo, Utah 84602USAABSTRACTOne of the necessary tasks of a machinet rans lat ion  system is lexical transfer.
Insome cases there is a one-to-one mapping fromsource language word to target language word.What theoret ica l  model is fo l lowed when thereis a one-to-many mapping?
Unfortunately,none of the l inguist ic  models that have beenused in machine t rans lat ion include a lexicalt ransfer  component.
In the absence of atheoret ica l  model, this paper wil l  suggest  anew way to test  lexical  t ransfer  systems.This test is being appl ied to an MT systemunder development.
One poss ib le  conc lus ionmay be that further effort  should be expendeddevelop ing models  of lexical transfer.i.
An Ear ly Approach to Lexical TransferYears before the machine t rans lat ioncommunity  was burdened with gui l t  by theALPAC report, David Hays, former chairman ofthe Internat ional  Committee on Computat ionalL inguist ics,  proposed a procedure for lexicalt ransfer  (Hays, 1963, pp 205-208).
We wil ldescr ibe it, quot ing pieces to preserve theor ig inal  flavor.i.
a. Fi le of Equiva lent -Choice  Data"Most words .
.
.have uni form translat ions,  butnot all ."
"These except ions to the generalrule must  be d iscovered and taken intoaccount.
The procedure is s imple andstra ightforward.
A f i le of equiva lent -cho icedata.
.
.
i s  required."
This fi le is preparedus ina real text.
When a word is encounteredfor the f irst time, one t rans lat ion isselected and entered into a b i l ingualglossary.
When the same word is encounteredagain, the human t rans lator /ed i tor  attemptsto use the t rans lat ion a lready in theglossary.
Addi t ional  t rans lat ions are addedonly when the one(s) in the g lossary are notacceptable.
This procedure is supposed toavoid enter ing interchangeable a l ternat ivesthat are only sty l is t ic  variat ions.
The fi leof equ iva lent -cho ice  data ment ioned above isa record of how many t imes each t rans lat ionwas used.i.
b. CategoryOnce the equiva lent -cho ice  fi le has beencompiled, the f irst step in analyz ing it isto ident i fy those words with two or moret rans lat ions  (i.e.
equivalents) .
The nextstep is to ident i fy  whether  the t rans lat ionis governed by "grammatic category".i.
c. Funct ionIf there are two or more t rans lat ions  wi th inthe same category, then the analyst  looks at"grammatic  function" (e.g.
subject, object  ofpreposit ion,  etc).104I.
d. Features"If there is any kind of re lat ion in whichthe word has two equivalents,  the analystcont inues by examining each word that governsthe mul t ip le -equ iva lent  word."
From thewords that govern the word in question, theanalyst  der ives "cr iter ial  c lasses" (i.e.features to mark on the govern ing words inthe dict ionary) .i.
e. End of ProcedureBut what  if test ing features on other wordsis not suf f ic ient  to determine thet rans lat ion?
Hays recognizes thisposs ib i l i ty  by not ing "There is no certainty,of course, that the governors  and dependentsof an occurrence determine its translat ion,but is seems p laus ib le  that they wi l l  oftendo so."
Even fo l lowing this procedure ofass ign ing features may be anything but"s imple and stra ightforward",  and (evenworse) it is not suff ic ient.2.
Some CounterexamplesObvious counter -examples  to Hays' hope cometo mind, such as "chip" in micro -e lect ron ics(=integrated circuit) and in gambl ing (=tokento represent  money), or "buck" in hunt ing(=male deer) and in s lang (=dollar).
Evenolder systems l ike SYSTRAN prov ide for thisby pr io r i t i z ing  var ious domain-spec i f i cd ict ionar ies.The other  s i tuat ion where the Hays approachc lear ly  breaks down is when the word is partof a f ixed expression, such as "chip off  theold block" (=like his father) or "pass thebuck" (=avoid responsibi l i ty) .
Al l  machinet rans lat ion systems provide for this byinc luding express ion d ict ionar ies  thatoverr ide word- for -word  lexical transfer.A var ia t ion  on the express ion d ict ionary  isto key a lex ica l -s t ructura l  t ransfer  from as ingle word that af fects surrounding words.For example, the adject ive "hungry"st imulates a t ransfer  going into French thatchanges "x is hungry" to "x has hunger',.Unfortunate ly ,  somet imes all the tr icksl isted above combined sti l l  do not suf f ice toident i fy  an acceptable translat ion.
Thefo l lowing two examples and some of thesubsequent  d iscuss ion are adapted from Melby(1985).2. a.
The "plate" ExampleFor example, cons ider  the word "plate" (whichcan mean a household item on which food isp laced to be eaten or a marker  on the groundin the game of baseball) in the sentenceThere was an egg on the platein the context  of a d iscuss ion of a basebal lgame in which an angry fan threw a raw eqqand it landed on home plate.Then consider the sentenceShe threw the food on the platein the discussion of what a teenager didbecause she was in a hurry to fix herbreakfast and get to school.Either of these sentences could occur in anarrative of the life of a young person (so aspecial dictionary Will not help), and thereis apparently nothing in the syntactic orlexical environment of "plate" thatdetermines the translation, and no idiomaticexpressions are involved.2.
b.
The "rock" exampleOr consider the problem of "rock", which is asingle lexical item in English with severalspecific translations in French ("pierre,roc, caillou", etc.
), no one of which is asgeneral as the English word "rock", whichwould be translated differently in each ofthe following sentences:She found the rock on the beach andplaced it in her pocket.He climbed up and sat on the rock to geta better view.While watching the parade, she got tiredand sat down, not seeing the sharp rock, andscreamed from the pain.2.
c. OpinionsSome claim that the above examples are farfetched and that the identification oflexical category, grammatical function,general subject matter, and fixed expressionsis sufficient to develop lexical transferalgorithms that produce acceptabletranslations.Others say that the dynamic nature of naturallanguages will often present a significantnumber of cases where lexical transfer is nothandled adequate lyby  standard techniques.Consider, for example, the search for lexicaltransfer criteria for the English preposition"through" going into French found inBourquin-Launey (1984).The facts are (i) that raw machinetranslation output, even after these manyyears of development, is seldom up topublication standards without post-editing;and (2) there has been little development ofthe models of lexical transfer beyond thestage described in section one (which was inplace already in the mid 1960's).
One reasonis that the linguistic models that have beenused do not include a lexical transfercomponent.
This can be verified by looking atHutchin's updated survey of linguistic modelsin machine translation (Hutchins, 1984).To summarize the discussion to this point,the fact is that work in lexical models hasbeen neglected for the past twenty years; thequestion is whether that neglect isjustified.It seems that it would be worthwhile to atleast examine the nature of the problems inmachine translation output.
If it turns outthat a significant portion of the problemsare actually failures in lexical transfer,then further studies of lexical transfer inthe computational linguistics communityshould be encouraged.The following section describes an on-goingeffort to test the lexical transfer componentof a machine translation system currentlyunder development.
The method allows a testof lexical transfer even before the entiresystem is operational, thus providingfeedback as early in the life of the projectas possible, hopefully allowing designchanges to be made, J f they are needed,before they become too costly.
The methodcould also be adapted to studies in lexicaltransfer somewhat independent of a particularmachine translation system.3.
A Method of Testing Lexical Transfer3.
a.
Origin of the Testing ProjectThe BSO Company is a systems house inUtrecht, The Netherlands.
The BYU-HRC is acenter which promotes research in the Collegeof Humanities at Brigham Young University(BYU), in particular providing support forresearch involving language and computers.In 1984, the author replied to a request forcomments on the then proposed BSO machinetranslation project.
That reply led todiscussions which resulted in an agreementbetween BSO and the BYU-HRC to create a textand translation data base as a jointventure.The specifications for the data base werethat it would consist:: of paired texts inFrench and English, that it would include atleast 500,000 words in each language, thatthe translations would be done by qualifiedprofessional translators, and that the texttype would be straightforward modern Englishand French avoiding texts that are literaryor intentionally ambiguous.BSO supplied the source documents, which weremostly public reports on agriculture, socialconditions, etc., published by theEuropean Economic Community (EEC) or theUnited Nations (UN).The documents were placed in machine readableform using the Kurzweil OCR device andtransferred to a disk pack on an IBM370/138.Preliminary to the test, the data base wassplit into two parts.
A smaller part (about200,000 words in each language) is accessibleto BSO for syntactic studies.
The largerpart (about 300,000 words in each language)will be used for the lexical test, under105control  of BYU, and wi l l  not be access ib le  toBSO.
The test wi l l  be executed in f ivesteps.3.
b.
Secret se lect ion of sample textsFrom the lexical  part  of the data base(300,000 words of Engl ish and 300,000 wordsof French), BYU has selected 4 sample texts.Each of these samples is a coherent stretchof text of approx imate ly  300 word tokens.Unless otherwise indicated, we now refer tothe Engl ish  vers ion of each sample text.From the 4 texts there were about 600 non-funct ion words.
Adding some "misleaders"from other sect ions of the data base, a l istof 800 words was sent to BSO.3.
c. Construct ion  of tr ial lexiconsBSO has received the a lphabet ica l ly  sortedl ist of 800 Engl ish words.
They do not knowthe context  of any of the words, nor wi l lthey know whether  a word is part  of one ofthe secret sample texts or merely  a"misleader".BSO is now bui ld ing an Engl ish tointermediate language (IL) lexicon and an ILto French lexicon.
In the case of the BSOproject, the intermediate representat ion is aformal ized Esperanto.
The Engl ish- IL  lex iconwil l  have more "exits" than input words(estimate -- 1200).
So the IL-French lexiconwi l l  have about 1200 entries.The Eng l i sh- IL  and IL-French lexicons wi l leach be separate ly  tested at BSO.
For thispurpose, BSO wil l  use Engl ish and IL tr ialinput texts, espec ia l ly  wr i t ten for thispurpose by external  consul tants  based on the800 and 1200 word lists.
In addit ion to the800 words, BSO wi l l  add a few hundredfunct ion words (articles, pronouns,preposit ions,  etc.).3.
d. Trans lat ion  us ing the tr ial lexicons.After  complet ion of both tr ial lexicons byBSO, they wi l l  be sent to the USA for overal ltest ing by BYU.
Two t rans lat ion phases wi l lbe d is t ingu ished as part  of the test ingprocedure.First, monol ingual  students of Engl ish wi l lt rans late the four sample texts (see A) intoIL by mechan ica l ly  fo l lowing the rulesconta ined in the entr ies of the Eng l i sh- ILtr ial  lexicon.
We emphasize that thesestudents wi l l  have no knowledge of IL, whichwi l l  help them apply the rules asmechan ica l ly  as possible.Second, a d i f ferent  group of students --again Engl ish  monol ingua ls  -- wi l l  t rans latethe IL-output  of phase I to French, bymechan ica l ly  apply ing the rules of the IL-French lexicon (without knowing IL orFrench).
S ince the test  is d i rected atlexical  word-choice,  no complete sentenceswi l l  be required for the French output.The presence of an IL -vers ion as in termediarybetween the two t rans lat ion phases wi l lrequire that the IL-output of phase I beconverted into complete sentences beforeserving as input to phase If.3.
e. Eva luat ing  the French outputAs a final part  of the whole procedure, BYUwil l  carefu l ly  compare the French output ofthe above descr ibed DLT tr ial  t rans lat ionwith the h igh-qua l i ty  human t rans lat ion ofthe text samples in the database.
Of course,this compar ison wi l l  concern only lexicalelements, ignor ing case endings, word order,etc.Where the output d i f fers  from the t rans lat ionin the data base, a French-Engl ish  b i l ingualwi l l  decide whether  the output is anacceptable  a l ternat ive and if not wil l  notethe d iscrepancy for further study by BSO.4.
Conc lus ionOnce the study is completed (which wil l  beyears s ince the above procedure is only thef i rst  major  phase), we should know more aboutthe types of problems to be encountered inlexical  t ransfer  at later stages when theent i re machine t rans lat ion  system is inplace.
The results  should ident i fy  generalproblems in lexical  t ransfer  that are notspeci f ic  to the BSO project.
Based on thefindings, we may recommend that further workin lexical  t ransfer  be pursued by thecomputat ional  l inguist ics  community.REFERENCESBourquin-Launey,  M-C. (1984) Traduct ionAutomat ique -- Aspects  Europ/eens.Paris: ADEC, 99, boulevard Sa int -Michel(5th arrondissement) ;  January 1984.Hays, David G. (1963) "Research Procedures inMachine Trans lat ion"  in Natural  Languageand the Computer, edited by Paul L.Garvin, pp.
183-214.
New York: McGraw-Hil l ;  1963.Hutchins, J.
(1984) "Methods of L inguist icAnalys is  in Machine Trans lat ion"  in theproceedings of the Internat ionalConference on Machine Translat ion,Cranfield, England, February 1984.Melby, Alan K. (1985) "A Text and Trans lat ionData Base", a paper  presented at theInternat ional  Conference on Data Basesin the Humani t ies  and Social  Sciences,Gr innel l  College, 1985.
(Submitted forpub l icat ion  in the proceedings.
)- -end of text  -m106
