TAILORING IMPORTANCE EVALUATION TO READER'SGOALS:  A CONTRIBUT ION TO DESCRIPT IVE  TEXTSUMMARIZAT IONDanilo Fum(* ), Giovanni Guida( + ), Carlo "lasso(')Istituto di Matematica, Informatica e SistemisticaUniversita' di Udine, ItalyAB S TR ACTThe paper deals with a new approach to importance valuation of descrip-tive texts developed in the framework of SUSY, an experimental system inthe domain of text snmmarization.
The problem of taking into account hereader's goals in evaluating importance of different parts of a text is firstanalyzed.
A solution to the design of a goal interpreter capable of com-puting a quantitative measure of the relevance degree of a piece of textaccording to a given goal is then proposed, and an example of goal inter-preter operation is provided.INTRODUCTIONImportance valuation is one of the major issues in text understanding.Human readers, in fact, rank each new piece of information obtained froma text in a sort of importance hierarchy.
The mental representation f themeaning of a text can not therefore be assumed to be fiat, objective, andreader-independent, butit generally contains a lot of subjective judgmentalknowledge.
Importance valuation ot only constitutes a fundamental skillin text summarizing and in related tasks (e.g., underlining, note taking,concept extraction, etc.)
but, more generally, it is a prerequisite for anytext understanding process.In recent years we have been working at a new approach to importanceevaluation (Fum, Guida, and Tasso, 1985a and 1985b) that is supported bythe development of SUSY, an experimental system in the specific domainof descriptive text summarization.
Most of the research carried out in thisfield has been aimed at providing a procedural definition of the concept ofimportance relying on both structural and semantic knowledge.
In thispaper we focus on how it is possible to take into account, in evaluatingimportance, the goals of the reader, in order to investigate how they mayinflnence the evaluation process and its output.
In fact, it is expected notonly that different representations of the same text will be produced, butalso that goals will directly affect the way importance is evaluated.BASIC ARCHITECTURE OF THE EVALUATORThe importance valuator is one of the fundamental subsystems of SUSY,and it is specifically devoted to the task of ranking different parts of a textaccording to their importance (Fum, Guida, and Tasso 1985b).Several reasons have supported the choice of implementing the importanceevaluator by means of a rule-based approach (Waterman and Hayes-Roth,1978).
First of all, the multiplicity and heterogeneity of the knowledgeinvolved in the process of importance valuation has to be mentioned:linguistic knowledge (both structural and semantic), world knowledge(including both common sense and domain specific knowledge),knowledge about reader's goals, meta-knowledge about how to use lingnis-tic knowledge, world knowledge, and goals in the process of importanceevaluation.
Second, the concept of importance seems to escape a simple,explicit, algorithmic definition.
A conceptual unit of a text can be con-sidered important, for example, because it helps understanding discoursecoherence, or because it relates to the discourse topic or topic-focus articu-lation of discourse, or because it refers to semantically important conceptsin the subject domain, or, finally, because it refers to a given reader's goal.A rule-based approach comprising a set of rules that can assign relativeimportance values to the different conceptual units of a text seems there-fore more viable than a traditional deterministic solution, as it can supplyall the conceptual and computational tools needed for taking into accountin a flexible mad natural way the variety of knowledge sources and pro-cessing activities that are involved in importance evaluation.The overall architecture of the evaluator is shown in Figure 1.HPN ELRworkingmemoryMATCHER1CONFLICTRESOLUIORGOALEXECUTORFigure 1.
Basic Architectm~ of the Evaluator.Basically, it is constituted by the standalzl modules of a rule-based system(Waterman and Hayes-Roth, 1978) with the addition of a specializedmodule, namely the goal interpreter, devoted to take into consideration thereader's goal.The evaluator eceives in input the internal representation f a naturallanguage text (supplied by another SUSY subsystem, namely the parser)expressed in the ELR (Extended Linear Representation) formalism (Fum,Guida, and Tasso, 1984), and an explicit representation f a goal to betaken into account for importance valnation.
It produces in output a new(*) also with: Dipartimento dell'Edueazione, Universita' di Trieste, Italy.
(+) also with: Progctto diIntelligcnz.a Anificialc, Dipartimcnto di Elettronica, Politecnicc di Milano, Italy.
(') also with: CISM - International Center for Mechanical Sciences, Udinc, Italy.256repl~sentation called HPN (IIierarchical Propositional Network), whereinteger importance values are assigned to tile basic conceptual units of theELR (concepts and propositions), in snch a way as to account for tiledifferent importance of the constituents of the text.Two main knowledge bases are available to tl~e evaluator:- the importance rule base, flint contains knowledge on the mechanismsthat are supposed to be used by human readers in evaluating importance,expressed through W-THEN rules;- the encyclopedia, that contains pecific world knowledge on the subjectdomain (mostly of structured, taxonomic, descriptive nature), representedthrough a network of frames.Tile W-part of a ride contains conditions that are evaluated with respect otile current HPN (initially the ELR) contaiued in the working memory.The THEN-part specifies either an importance valuation action or anaction to be performed to further the analysis (e.g., a strategic hoice con-ceming rule activation, a criterion to solve conflicting ewduations, theactivation of a frame of the encyclopedia, etc.).
Botll parts of a rule mayrefer to frames of the encyclopedia.The importance valuation action contained in the THEN-part of a ruletakes usually the form of an assignment of an importance value to a con-cept or proposition of the ELR.
Snch an assignment may be absolute (e.g.,w(X)=9) or relative (e.g.
w(X)=w(X)-3).
All successive assigmnents o agiven concept or proposition are not directly executed, but they are storedin a list together with the number of the rules from which they originate,and only at the end of the importance valuation activity riley are globallyconsidered in order to obtain a unique importance value.Ttle importmlce mle base includes several classes of nlles which accountfor the different skills used in importance valuation.
Namely (Fnm,Guida, and Tasso, 1985b):- referential-structural (RS) rules can derive importance values fi'om thestrncture of references among conceptual units of tile text,- rhetoric-structural ('1S) rules derive importance relation l?om rhetoricpredicates of the ELR,- structural-semantic (SS) rules rely on the analysis of specific structuralfeatures of tile text that have a definite semantic role, such as ISA rela-tions and macro-predicates of tile ELR,- semantic-encyclopedic (SE) rules refer to world knowledge contained inthe encyclopedia,- explicit evahtation (EEl rules take into account explicit statements con-cerning importance sometimes purposedly inserted in tile text by fileauthor, and, finally,- metarules (MT) embody strategic knowledge that concerns reasoningabout importance rules aud their use.The encyclopedia s the second knowledge somve employed by the evalua-tot and it contains domain specitic knowledge in form of frames.
Theframes of file encyclopedia embody, in addition to a header two kinds ofslots:- knowledge slots, that contain domain specific knowledge, represented ina form homogeneous with tile ELR language;- reference slots, containing Ix)inters to other frames that deal with relatedtopics in the subject domain.The operation of tile evaluator obeys the basic recognize-act ycle of arule-based system.
Mo~e specifcally, it is controlled by a forward chainingmechanism which continually updates the working memory, thusU'anslbrming it in the final HPN form.
The marcher is responsible forrecognizing ELR patterns in the working memory which satisfy the W-partof importance rules.
The W-part of a rule may contain a specific referenceto the goal interpreter when it is needed to evaluate tile relevance of agiven concept or proposition (belonging to tile ELR or to the encyclo-pedia) to the cmxent goal.
In such a case the marcher esorts to the goalinterpreter, which is able to compute file required relevance degree,expressed through a real value in the range (0,1).When the conflict set has been identified, the conflict resolutor selects theunique rule whosn THEN-part will later be executed.
System operationends when the conflict set is empty, i.e.
when all available resources forimportance valuation have been used.
Several strategies are utilized forperforming conflict resolution, and they basically obey two paradigms,namely refraction and ordering (Brownston, Farrel, Kant, and Martin,I985).Refraction implies that a rule can not be executed more than once on filesame data.
On the contrary, it has to be noticed that a single rule can befired several times on different data during the process of importanceevaluation.
Iu fact, the ELR can possibly contain several instances of thepatterns conlorming to the specific criteria of importance valuation cap-lured by a ride.Rule ordering implies that each importance rule is attached a weight (auinteger value) in such a way as to define an ordering relation among rules.During conflict resolution this ordering is used in two different ways: forselecting the rule with the highest weight, or for discarding rules below agiven threshold.
Weights are initially assigned statically and ,are laterupdated ynamically at run-time.
The static ordering is provided when arule is created, encoding in snch a way general selection criteria regardingthe priority of using some rules rather than others at the beginning of theimportance valuation process.
Dynamic updating of weights allows lateron the evaluator to conform to different conflict resolution criteria, adapt-ing its behavior to the actual course of the step-wise transformation f theELR iuto the HPN.
Null weights are utilized to prevent the possibleunwanted execution of a rule.
Each time the evaluator is utilized on a newtext, the weights arc reset o their original static vah, es.ROLE AND REPRESENTATION OF GOALSIt is apparent that reader's goals have a major role in evalnating impor-tance of a written text.
Goals that: exist a-priori in the reader's mind, i.e.before reading a text, can affect his judgemental ctivity in two quite dis-tinct ways.
First, the existence of goals can trigger an evaluation mechan-ism that tends to identify as important hose parts of the text which arcrelevant to the current goal (goal-directed evaluation).
As goal-directedevaluation strategies coexist with other strategies which are indepeudent oftile existence of goals, it is necessary that tlley would appropriately fittogether in such a way as to achieve a correct balance between goal-dependent and goal-independent judgements.
Secoud, goals can have amajor role in directing the retrieval and use of encyclopedic knowledgerelewmt o the current importance valuation activity (selective focusing).In fact, a human reader generally utilizes a lot of specific worldkuowledge when evaluating tile importance of a text, and tile remindingfrom loug term memory of the pieces of knowledge to be used in a givencontext is often triggered by his a-priori goals.
In this case, goals do notdirectly contribute to the importance valuation process, but can affect itin an indirect way throngh identification of pertinent world knowledge tobe used by other goal-independent importance evaluation strategies.Using goals in importance valuation poses two classes of problems to thesystem designer:- How to represent goals?- Itow to match goals with pieces of tllc ELR or encyclopedia for imple-menting the mechanisms of goal-directed evaluation and selective focus-ing?The former of the above points will be dealt with in the sequel of this sec-tion, while the latter will be the subject of the next section.Several kinds of reader's goals are possible with respect o their generality,level of abstraction, articulation of content, richness of details, etc.
It isapparent that goals, according to their different nature, may range from alight emphasis of the reader's intentions to a quite specific que~3'.
Moreprecise and articulated the goals are, more focused is the attention on welldefined and specific objects, and, accordingly, goal-dependent importanceev.
'duation strategies become more appropriate and useful.
Moreover, asgoals become more and more specific and rich, importance valuationteuds to mingle with information retrieval and question-answering.As a basic design choice, we restrict our attention (at least for themoment) to classes of goals which are reasonably general and simple (butnot necessarily explicit, univocal, clear, or easy to interpret!
), in such away as to keep focusing on importance valuation without intermixing toomuch our model with different issues, such as information retrieval andqnestion-answering.This decision has heavy implications on the design of the goal representa-tion language.
Although in principle nothing less tban tile full ELR for-realism should be nsed tbr expressing oals, we restrict our attention to alargely simplified subset of it.Let us consider a goal vocabulary (GV) containing a collection of key-words relevant 'a a given subject domain, and assume as an adequate257representation for a goal a propositional expression over GV made upusing and, or, and not connectives.
Note that the goal vocabulary GV maybe redundant, i.e.
it may contain several words that refer to partially over-lapping concepts.
Also it is implicitly assumed that the general topic ofdiscourse is fixed and always tacitly understood: words of GV only specifya facet, a viewpoint or a detail of interest, but they can not change ormodify (e.g., through limitations or specifications) the topic of discourse.Moreover, it is assumed that the size of GV can be kept reasonably small,although each time a new interesting concept has to be included in thecoverage of the goal representation language, GV must be enlargedaccordingly.INTERPRETING GOALSAfter having introduced a representation language to be used for specify-ing goals, we tackle in this section the problem of how it is possible toobtain goal dependent importance evaluation.The first possibility that comes to mind consists in labeling a-priori eachframe of the encyclopedia with words of the goal vocabulary GV and,then, to match words used for expressing oals with such labels, takingappropriately into account he logical connectives and, or, and not.
Tbissolution is only possible for the encyclopedia, s it is quite impossible tolabel a-priori unknown pieces of ELR.
It shares some basic features withthe approach proposed by DeJong (1979) that assumes an a-prioridefinition of the concept of importance coded into an appropriate set ofscripts.
This solution, however, has several shortcomings:(a) it is rigid, as any change in GV necessitates that the labeling of theencyclopedia is changed accordingly;(b) it hiddens the reasons and criteria adopted for labeling the frames ofthe encyclopedia, thus preventing any further use of this information (forexample, in generating justifications of the evaluation produced);(c) it makes the encyclopedia heavily dependent on the specific nse ofimportance valuation and on the particular goal vocabulary currently con-sidered.A better solution, that can cover both cases of comparison with the ency-clopedia and ELR and does not require any preliminary labeling pro-cedure, is direct matching of words of GV appearing in the goalspecification with frames of the encyclopedia or pieces of the ELR, takingappropriately into account he meaning of logical connectives.
This possi-bility, however, woold also be largely unsatisfactory.
It does not allow tak-ing into account, for example, the diversity of terminology, i.e.
the factthat the same concept may be referred to by means of different words inthe goal specification and in the piece of knowledge to be matched; it doesnot allow dealing with concepts at different levels of abstraction, and,more importantly, it does not allow expressing different degrees ofrelevance.The above analysis of inadequacies of some preliminary design proposalsallows stating the following requirements for the goal interpreter:- it should allow to keep the goal vocabulary GV and the encyclopediaindependent from each other, in such a way as changes in die former donot affect the latter, and they can be designed and updated separately;- it should support an explicit representation f the conceptual connectionbetween the goal vocabulary GV and the encyclopedia and ELR, in such away as the role of goals in importance evaluation can be easily controlledby the system designer and, if necessary, explained and justified to theuser;- it should allow dealing with diversity of terminology, expression, con-text, and level of abstraction;- it should allow dealing with a full range of relevance degrees.We propose here a first step towards the design of a goal interpreter satis-fying the above mentioned requirements.
Such an interpreter takes in inputa goal specification, expressed in the goal representation language, and afragment of ELR taken from the internal representation f the text or fromthe frames of the encyclopedia.
Its task is to compute the relevance degreeof the ELR fragment according to the given goal.
To this purpose, the goalinterpreter utilizes a referential knowledge base, i.e., a semantic networkwhose nodes are either atomic concepts that represent basic items in thesubject domain or definitional concepts, i.e., structures that are used inorder to define the meaning of atomic concepts.
The are~ of the network258connect pairs of nodes linked together by some conceptual relation such assynonymy, antonymy, generalization, specification, definition, attribute,etc.
Each arc is tagged by a label, indicating the conceptual relation link-ing the two concepts, and by a real number in the range (0 - 1) whichrepresents the relation degree that characterizes the link between the twoconcepts.
The referential knowledge base represents he main knowledgesource utilized by the goal interpreter in evaluating the relevance degree ofan ELR fragment to a given goal.
General knowledge regarding the sub-ject domain and, more specifically, concerning the discourse topic is thuswired in the referential knowledge base.The semantic network which constitutes the referential knowledge base isaccessed starting from the ELR fragment in parallel.
At this point abidirectional search process, aimed at finding a path connecting the twoentry points, begins.
The search is complicated by the fact that some nodesof the network are constituted by atomic concepts whereas other nodes aredefinitional.
It is possible to proceed from a definitional node onwards ifand only if all the concepts constituting the definition can be matched,directly or through intermediate nodes, with ELR expressions.
The searchprocess terminates when a path connecting the goal and the ELR fragmentis found.
An appropriate function taking into account he relation degreesof the arcs in the path is computed and the result represents he relevancedegree of the ELR fragment o the given goal.
Whenever possible anoptimum path (i.e.
a path with the highest relevance degree) should belooked for, bnt such a search generally poses hard problems from a com-putational point of view.AN E X A M P L EThis section is devoted to present an example of operation of the goalinterpreter.
Let us consider the following fragment of text, taken fromChristian (1983: 11):"...
The UNIX system is a moderately complex operating sys-tem.
It is far simpler than the operating systems that run onmaxicomtmters, but it has much more capabilities than mostoperating systems that run on microcomputers.
For example,the UNIX system allows several programs to run simultane-ously...."The purpose of this example is to show how the goal interpreter is able toidentify that the last sentence of the text is to be considered important ifevaluated with reference to the goal USE.
By applying usual referential-structural rules, the concept UNIX is stressed as important since it ishighly referenced in the text.
The ELR representation f the last sentenceis:180 ALLOW (UNIX, 190, P)190 RUN (VV3)200 *PROGRAM (VV3)210 SEVERAL (VV3)220 SIMULTANEOUSLY (190, P)Consider now the following semantic-encyclopedic rule:Rule SE26IF there is a proposition P A(X,Y) such that:- A ISA PERFORM- w(X) >= high- the relevance degree of Y to the current goal is >= 0.5THEN set w(P) = w(X).The rationale behind rule SE26 is that a sentence concerning an importantconcept is also considered important when its predicate is of kindPERFORM and its second argument (i.e., what is predicated about theimportant concept) is relevant to the current goal.The first two clauses of the IF-parr of the rule match proposition 180,since ALLOW ISA PERFORM and w(UNIX)=high.
For what concerns thethird clause, a deeper analysis involving the goal interpreter is needed./ IONCURRENTI .N// // // // ZI //I190 RUN .
.
.
.
.200 ~PROGRAM .
.
,210 SEVERAL .
.
.
.220 S IMULTANEOUSLY .
, .Figure 2.
Referential Knowledge Utilized by the Interpreter.More specifically, the relevance degree of proposition 190, which in turninvolves also proFositions 200, 210, and 220, has to be evaluated withreference to the goal USE.
The portion of referential knowledge utilizedby the goal interpreter in this specific ase is shown in Figure 2.The network is entered through the word USE, corresponding to the goal,and the nodes RUN, PROGRAM, and SIMULTANEOUSLY.
By movingthrough the netwolk from both entries, the path drawn in bold lines in Fig-ure 2 is identified.
The definitional node corresponding to the MULTI-TASKING concept is entered from the ELR lhrougb multiple (namely,three) arcs.
The overall relevance degree of the path is computed by multi-plying the relation degrees of its arcs and the result 0.58 is obtained.
Itshould be noted that, among the several arcs entering a definitional node,only that with the lowest relation degree is considered for the computation.In this way, rule SE26 can be applied and, consequently, the importancevalue of proposition 180 is set to high.CONCLUSIONSThe evalnator described in the paper is presently running in a prototypeversion (with about 50 rules and a small encyclopedia of about 40frames) written in LISP on a SUN-2 workstation.
It has been extensivelytested on selected cases (extracted from textbcx)ks on operating systems),and it includes a preliminary implementation f the goal interpreter basedon a simplified version of the referential knowledge base.
Research workdevoted to extend and refine this first version of the goal interpreter and totest its performance is now ongoing.,Several open problems and challenging tOlfiCS will be the subject of futureresearch.
Among these we mention:- extending the goal representation kmgnage;- merging the encyclopedia nd the referential knowledge base into aunified structure that encompasses all knowledge awtilable on the subjectdomain and can make it available in an effective way to the relevantmodules of the ewduator (Sowa, 1984);- considering oals Ihat can change during text noderstauding, taking intoaccount he topic-tbcus articulation of discotR'se - (Hajic.ova' and Sgall,1984);- developing an explaa tion module that can justify the reasons behind theovatua|iol\[IS l)rothlccd by the syst(:nl.REFERENCESBrownston L., Farrel R., Kant E., and Matin N. (1985).
ProgrammingExpert Systems in OPS5.
Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.Christian K. (1983).
The Unix Operating System.
New York, NY: Wiley.DeJong G.F. (1979).
Skimming Stories in Real Time: An experiment inintegrated understanding.
Research Report #158, Yale University Depart-ment of Computer Science, New Haven, CT.Fum D., Guida G., and Tasso C. (1984).
A Propositional Language forText Representation.
I  B.G.
Bara and G. Guida (Eds.
), ComputationalModels of Natural Language Processing, Amsterdam, NL: North-Holland,121-163.Fum D., Guida G., and Tasso C. (1985a).
A Rule-Based Approach toEvaluating Importance in Descriptive Texts.
Proc.
2rid Conf.
of the Euro-pean Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, Geneva,Switzerland, 244-250.Fum D., Guida G., and Tasso C. (1985b).
Evaluating hnportance: A steptowards text smnmarization.
Proe.
9th Int.
Joint Coi~ on Artificial Intelli-gence, Los Angeles, CA, 840-844.Hajicova' E. and Sgall P. (1984).
From Topic and Focus of a Sentence toLinking in a Text.
In B.G.
Bara and G. Guida (Eds.
), ComputationalModels of Natural Language Processing, AmsterdanL NI,: North-Holhmd,151-163.Sowa, J.F.
(1984).
Conceptual Structures Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.Waterman D.A.
and Hayes-Roth F.
(Eds.)
(1978).
Pattern-Directed h~fer-ence Systems.
New York, NY: Academic Press.;!
!i9
