' TOWARDS D ISCOURSE-0R IENTED NONMONOTONIC  SYSTEM,Barbara Dunin-K~pl icz  Witold Lukaszewicz, Inst i tute of In fo rmat icsWarsaw Un ivers i tyP .O.Box  121000-901 Warszawa,  POLANDABSTRACTThe  purpose  of this paper is to analyse thephenomenon of nonmonotonicity in a natural lan-guage  and ?o formulate a number  of general prin-ciples which  should be taken in%o considerationwhile constructing a discourse oriented nonmo-notonic formalism.INTRODUCTIONF'or the  purpose  of th i s  paper  we  assumethat to understand a discourse is to specify al lthe  conc lus ions  der ivab le  from the  d i scoursei t se l f  knowledge  about  the  wor ld  and  knowledgeof language use.To  complete d iscourse-connected conclusions,a number  of various linguistic phenomena mustbe resolved.
The  solution of such  problems asanaphora, quantification, negation and  so on,should be regarded as full right conclusions.The  reason is that this purely linguistic informa-tion is necessary  for obtaining the essentialone, describing the external world under  conside-ration.The  measure  of quality of any discourseanalysis sys tem is the adequacy  of its inferencecapabilities to those of human language users.This  implies that any such  a high quality sys temmust  provide some mechan ism modelling commonsense  reasoning.In everyday  l i fe we are continously forcedto accept various conclusions which we are pre-pared to reject when our knowledge  increases.The  ability of drawing such  cancellableinferences,beliefs in AI terminology, makes  common sensereasoning nonmonoton ic  in the sense  that the setof derivable conclusions does  not increase mono-tonically with the set of premises, as in standardl og ics .Earlier exper iences have  proved that ad hocnonmonotonic  tools were  ineffective.
They  haveseemed to work  fo r  the simplest cases  only.Since they lacked theoretical founds\[ions, the i rbehav iour  has  been  unc lear  in more  complexsituations.Recently there have  been  a number  ofattempts to formalize various nonmonotonic  mech-an isms (see ( i I ,  1980) ,  (AAAI ,  1984\ [ ) ) .In this paper  we analyse the phenomenon ofnonmonotonicity in a natural language.
We alsoformulate a number  of general principles whichshould be taken into account while specifyinga discourse-oriented nonmonotonic  formalism.It is well recognized that ordering of dis-course utterances i s  essential for its understand-ing~ On the other hand, logical sys tems lackmechan isms capturing this property.
If follows,therefore~ that to mode l  the dynamic  nature ofa discourse, some kind of struciuralization isneeded.
A very natural, both computationally andconceptually, d iscourse structuralization has beensuggested by Kamp (Kamp,  1981).Accord ing  to Kamp,  a discourse is representedaS a D ( iscourse) R (epresentation) S ( t ructure) .Reugh ly  speaking, DRS is a sequence  ofD ( iscourse)R (epresentat ions)~ DR is nothingelse than a partial modeI~ describing discourseobjects and their tel\[aliens.
A ORS is constructedas follows.
V~'e start with the empby DR. Eachdiscourse utterance extends the actual DR byadding appropriate information contained in theutterance, qFo construct any DR,  some kind ofreasoning mechan ism is needed.
V~'e postulatethe application of the nonmonoton ic  inferencesystem for that purpose.NONMONOTONIC ITYIN D ISCOURSE UNDERSTANDINGq~o show the  un iversa l i ty  of nonmonoton ic i tyin a natural language 5 we shall present a numberof examples  concerning various linguistic phe-nomena commonly  occurring in  a discourse.One  should be aware  that  analogous treatmentof such  different concepts as, for instance,anaphora  and presupposition is inappropriate.Anaphora ,  as well as quantification or negationare purely surface phenomena.
One  must resolve~them while processing a discourse, but theirsolutions lead to conclusions describing thediscourse rather, than the external world underconsideration.
For  this reason  we shall refer ?othose conclusions as surface conclusions.Presupposition, on the other hand, as wel l  aStime line COnStruction, conditionals or variousconversational rules, concerns  conclusionsdescribing directly the world being representedby a discourse.
Vge shall refer to those conclu-sions as .~eneral conclusions.Our  purpose  i s  not  to rev iew a l l  the  l ingu is t i cphenomena dea l ing  wi th  nonmonoton ic i ty ,  but  todemonstrate that(i) both kinds of conclusions are subject toi nva l idat ion ,( i i )  cance l iab le  conc lus ions  of both  types  canbe supported either by semantic or pragmaticsources.This  leads to an important observation thatnonmonotonicity exists on various levels ofdiscourse understanding, viewing both process ingmethod and data to be processed.Surface conclusionsThe  fo l low ing  examples  of p ronoun anaphoraand  quantification show that semant ic -based aswell as progmatic-based surface conclusionscan  be invalidated.Example  i (pronoun anaphora)(i) The  Vice-President entered the President'soffice.
He  was  nervous  and clutching hisbriefcase.504"l~his example  is from (Ascher ,  1984) .
Thereare semant ic  reasons  support ing the conc lus ionthat the V ice-Pres ident  is the one  who is nervousg iven  the information that he  has  a meet ing  withthe President.
"I'his conc lus ion  can  be, however ,over turned  by add ing(2) Af ter  a l l ,  he  cou ldn ' t  f i re  the  V ice -Pres identw i thout  mak ing  t roub le  for h imse l f  wi th  thecha i rman of the  board .Example  2 (p ronoun anaphora)(3) Peter '  WaS s i t t ing  in  a room.
When J ohnentered the room he  seemed nervous .A l though there are  two possible referents of"he" in (3), it i s  p ragmat ica l ly  we l l  mot ivatedthat  "he"  re fers  to "Peter" ,  Th is  fo l lows  fromGr ice l s  Cooperat ive  P r inc ip le .
Assuming  that  thespeaker  is obey ing  it, he  shou ld  rep lace (5) bythe  unmis takab le(4 )  Peter  was  s i t t ing  in  a room.
Enter ing  theroom, John  seemed nervous .if it were  the case  that John  had  been nervous .lqeverthelesm, this preferred core ference  is inval-idated if (4) is extended to(5) Peter  was s i t t ing  in a room.
When Johnentered the room he  seemed nervous .
Hewas a f ra id  of Peter.
(quant i f i ca t ion)(6 )  There  are  th ree  men in a room.
Every  manloves a woman,~here  are  clearly two possible paraphrases  of (6):( ? )
"Phere  are  th ree  men in a room.
q?here  i sa woman such  that she  is loved by  eachof them,(8) There  are  three  men in a room.
For  eachman there is a woman such  that he  lovesher.App ly ing  his "ordering principles", based  on  theobservat ion  that humans  are  used to hand le  infor-mat ion from left to r ight ,  I I i n t i kka  in ( I l i n t i kka ,1977)  conv inc ing ly  suggests  that  (8 )  i s  p rag-mat ica l ly  p re fer red  read ing  for  (6 ) .
Never the-less ,  th i s  conc lus ion  may be  over turned ,  lPorinstance, it (6 )  i s  ex tended to(9) "l~here are  three men in a room.
Every  manloves  a woman.
Her  name is  Me l inda .Example  4: (quant i f i ca t ion)(10)  A r i f le  has  been  g iven  to a l l  so ld ie rs ,F rom among two poss ib le  read ings  of (10) ,  theone assert ing that  d i f fe rent  r i f l es  have beeng iven  to different sotdiers shou ld  be semant ic -a l ly  p re fer red?
But  th i s  in terpreta t ion  i s  imme-d ia te ly  inv~l idated  when (10)  is  rep laced  by(11)  A r i f le  has  been  g iven  to a l l  so ld ie rs .It has  tu rned  out  to be  broken .Genera l  conc lus ions' l~he fo l low ing  examples  of presuppos i t ion il-lustrate that  semant ic -based  as  well as  prag-mat ic -based  genera l  conc lus ions  are subject tocance l la t ion .
(p resuppos i t ion)(3.2) J ohn  regrets  that  he  d idn ' t  w in  the  pr i ze .
(12) p resupposes  that John  did not w inthe  prize.Neverthe less ,  this genera l  conc lus ion  is imme-diately i nva l idated  when (12)  i s  extended toed to(3.3) John  regrets that he  didn't win  the prize.In fact, he  doesn ' t  know that he did.Example 6_ (presupposition)(24)  "If I had  money I wou ld  buy  a rifle to de-fend yeu  from the Wolf", Red  Rid ing Hoodmaid to her  Grrandmother.
(14) p resupposes  that RRH had no money.Th is  follows from the pragmat ic  rules of interpreta-tion of counterfactuals in English.
"\]2he cance l~ability of this conc lus ion  is easily seen,  if (14)is extended to(15) "If I had  money I wou ld  buy  a rifle to de-fend you  f rom the W'olf", RRH said to herCTrandmother.
In fact, RRH WaS cheat ing her.5he  had  money,  but she  wanted  to buyherself a new dress.Accord ing  to the presented  examples ,  nonmo-notonicity is not a local phenomenon.
It exists onvar ious  levels of d i scourse  analysis.
It seems,therefore, that no high quality d i scourse  under -s tanding sys tem can  i~nore this fact.q?OWARDS A D I~SCOURSE-ORIEN ' J ?EDNONMONOG)ONIC FORMALISMAl though a great  number  of var ious  nonmono-ton ic  (nm, for shor t )  fo rmal i sms  can  be  found i nAI  literature, none  of them seems to be fullyappropriate for the purpose  of d i scourse  under -standing.
In our  op in ion ,  on ly  de fau l t  l og ic  paret ia l l y  captures  the  express ive  power  of natura ll anguage.
\ ]Der iv ing  from Minsky 's  f rame concept ,this formal ism has  turned out to be useful forvar ious  natura l  l anguage app l i ca t ions  ( see  (Dun in --K~plicz,  1984) ,  (Mercer ,  Reiter, 1984) .Default logic has  been introduced by  Relierin (P.eiter, 1980)  to model  default reasonin_q, i.e.,the  drawing  of p laus ib le  conc lus ions  from incom-p le te  in fo rmat ion  in  the  absence  of ev idence  tothe contrary, f typ ica l  example  of default reason-ing is the inference rule "<Pypically birds fly".
If"l~weety is  e bird, then  in the  absence  of ev i -dence  to the contrary, we normal ly  assume thatq~weefy f l ies .
But  we  are  prepared  to re jec t  th i sconc lus ion ,  if we  learn  theft (Dweety  i s  a p ingu i ruIn default logic the rule about  birds is repre-sen\ [ed  by  the  fo l low ing  de fau l t :b i rd (x )  : M f l i es (x )  / f l i es (x )wi th the  in tended in terpreta t ion :  "for each  ind iv id -ua l  x, if x is a b i rd  and i{ i s  consistent to as-sume that x flies, then it may be assumed thatx flies".In default l og ic  lhe wor ld  under  cons iderat ionis represented  as  a default the~,  i.e.
a pairconsist ing of a set of first-order formulae, theax ioms of the theory, and  a set of defaults.
De-fau l t s  extend  the  in fo rmat ion  conta ined  in ax iomsby sanct ioning plausible, but not necessar i lytrue, conclus ions.A set  of fo rmulae  der ivab le  from a g iven  de-faul t  theory  is; ca l led  an  extens ion  of the  theoryand is i n te rpreted  as  a set of beliefs about  thewor ld  being *h~delled.
( see  (Relier, 3_980) fop details).505Spec i fy ing a nm d iscourse-or iented formal ismis a difficult problem.
"\])he first step is to deter-mine  all its relevant properties.
In this sect ionwe shall try to accompl i sh  this point and  to dis-cuss  some weaknesses  of default logic in thisrespect.The  first p rob lem is to choose  an  appropr iates tandard  logic as  a bas is  of the constructedsystem.
A l though the majority of existing nm for-ma l i sms are based  on  classical first-order logic,it is well recogn ized  that to capture the struc-ture of natural languages ,  at least intensionallogic, preferable with tense  operettors, is required.It shou ld  be, however ,  s t ressed  that for computa-tional reasons  some compromise  between ade-quacy  and  simplicity is necessary .The  next step is to add  a nonmonoton ic  de-ductive structure to the chosen  monoton ic  logic.Th is  amounts  to  the following task.
G iven  a the-err A, i.e., a set of formulae descr ib ing relevantinformation about  a world, determine  a set  E(A)of conc lus ions  nonmonoton ica l ly  der ivable fromA.
The  genera l  idea is to identify this set withthe set of conc lus ions  monotonical ly  derivablefrom some extens ion  of A.
For  this reason lD(A)is called an  extens ion  of A,  and  is interpretedas  the set of plausible conc lus ions  about  thewor ld  under  consideration.Defining a language and nm deduct ive  struc-ture, determines  a nm system.
But to make thesys tem appl icable for d i scourse  process ing,a number  of additional factors shou ld  be  takeninto consideration.~irst, a semant ics  mus \ [  be  specified.
In par-ticular, a mode l  regarded as  a nm description ofa real wor ld  under  considerat ion shou ld  bedefined.Second,  a method of determining whether  aconc lus ion  can  be  inferred from a g iven  set ofp remises  shou ld  be  specified.
Because  nm deriv-ability depends  not only on  what  can  be  proved,but also on  what  cannot  be  proved,  there aretechnical  p rob lems involved here.
In particular,even  if the sys tem is based  on  semi -dec idab lefirst-order logic, its proof theory is general lyundec idable .
"\])his means  that some kind ofheuristics is necessary ,  and  the sys tem willsomet imes  arrive at mistaken conclusions.Never the less ,  it is  often sufficient to cons ideronly mode ls  with finite domains  limited to theindividuals explicitely occur r ing  in the d iscourse.In such  a case,  the logic we are deal ing withis, in fact, the propositional one.
"I~he nm formal-i sm based  on  propositional logic is, of course,decidable.
"l~hird, belief___.~s \[evision~ that is  a method ofreorgan iz ing  wor ld  model  when new informationleads to incons is tency  shou ld  be  specified.
(\['hisvery  difficult p rob lem has  been marginal ly t reat -ed  in  the  most  o f  ex is t ing  nm systems,  On theo ther  hand,  s ince  each  d iscourse  ut terance  mod-i f i es  the  actua l  wor ld  mode l ,  be l ie fs  rev is ionseems one  of  the  cent ra l  p rob lems of  d i scourseanalysis.Fourth, the ex is tence of extens ions  shou ldbe  guaranteed.
A l though this demand seems ob-vious, it iS not satisfied in many existing nmformal i sms,  in part icu lar~ in Re i te~s defaul t  logic,An example  of a discourse,  whose  representat ionin lqeiter's sys tem lacks an  extension, can  befound in (Lukaszewicz ,  1984) .
"l~his paper  pre~-sents also an  alternative formalization of defaultlogic wh ich  satisfies the above  postulated proper -ty.Fifth, the sys tem shou ld  ~ mode l  com-mon sense  reasoning.
In te rms of extension, thismeans  that such  an  extens ion shou ld  containthose d iscourse -connected  conc lus ions  wh ichwou ld  be  drawn by  humans .
In our opinion, noneof existing nm fo rmal i sms fully captures  thisrequirement.
The  detailed d i scuss ion  of this hypo-thesis can  be  found in (Lukaszewicz ,  1986) .In the majority of nm systems the notion of anextens ion is def ined in a way  admitting the exist-fence  of many different extens ions  for a g iventheory, q~his poses  the quest ion of how to definethe set of conc lus ions  derivable from such  a the-ory.
'l~here are  two possibilities.
First, to v ieweach  extens ion  as  an  alternative set of beliefsone  can  hold about  a wor ld  under  consideration.In fact, this solution has  been adopted  in defaultlogic.
Second,  to identify the set of conc lus ionswith the intersection of all extensions.
Both  solu-tions are reasonab le  but have  different interpreta-tions, q~he first represents  what  an  agent  beliefsabout  a world, the second,  wh~t an outside ob-server  wou ld  know about  the agent~ beliefs,g iven the set of the agent ' s  p remises  about  theworld.In our opinion, the second solution is bettermotivated in d i scourse  process ing,  q~his followsfrom the fact that both the speaker '  and  thehearer  try to ach ieve  a common representat ionof a d iscourse.
"l~his wou ld  be impossible, ifeach  of them accepted  a different extension.REFERENCESAAAI  (1984)  Non-Monoton ic  Reason in f i  Workshof )  ,New Paltz, NY ,  October  17-19,  1984.AI (1980)  Art i f ic ia l  In te l l igence .
Vol.
13/1,2.Ascher ,  N.) (1984)  L ingu is t i c  Unders tand ing  andNon-Monoton ic  Reason ing .
In AAAI -84 ,pp.
1-20.Dun in -Ktp l i cz  B., (1984)  Defau l t  Reason ing  inAnaphora  Reso lu t ion .
P rec .
6th ECA!,pp.
157-166.Hint ikka J., (1977)  Quant i f ie rs  in Natura lLanguages :  Some Logical  P rob lems II.
~ -tics and  Ph i losophy  i, pp.
153-172.Kamp H., (1981)  A q?heor~ of T ruth  and  Semant icRepresentat ion.
Formal  Methods  in th___ee Study  OfLanguage,  Amsterdam,  pp.
277-322.LukaszewiczW.
,  (1984~) Cons iderat ions  on  DefaultLogic.
In AMI -84 ,  pp.
165-193.LukaszewiczW.
,  (1986)  Formal i za t ion  of Know-ledge and  Ignorance:  An  Introduction to Non-monoton ic  Reason ing ,  C___C A.__I\[~ to appear .Mercer  R., Reiter, R., (1982)  The  representat ion ofP resuppos i t ions  Us ing  Defaults.B.g.University.~I'echnical Repor t  82-i.Reiter R., (1980)ALog ic  for Default Reason ing .Artificial Intelligence 13/i,2, pp.
81-132.506
