DEGREES OF UNDERSTANDINGEva Haj i~ov~ and Petr Sgal lFacul ty  of Mathemat ics  and PhysicsCharles Univers i tyMa lost ransk@ n?
25Prague l, Czechos lovak iai.
IntroductiOnoAlong with "static" or "declarat ive"descr ipt ions  of language system, models oflanguage use (the regular i t ies  of communica-t ive competence) are constructed.
One of theoutstanding aspects of this transfer of at-tent ion consists in the efforts devoted toautomatic comprehens ion of natural  languagewhich, since Winograd's  SHRDLU, are presentedin many d i f ferent  contexts.
One speaks aboutunderstanding,  or comprehension,  a l though itmay be not iced that the term is used in dif-ferent, and often rather unclear, meanings.In machine t rans lat ion systems, as the lateB.Vauquois pointed out (see now Vauquois  andBoitet, 1985), a f lexible system combin ingd i f ferent  levels of automatic  analysis is nec-essary (i.e.the transfer component  should beable to operate at d i f ferent  levels).
The hu-man factor cannot be complete ly  d ispensed of;it seems inevitable to include post-edit ion,or such a d iv is ion of labour as that knownfrom the system METEO.
Not only the semantico-pragmatic items present  in the source languagestructure should be ref lected, but also cer-tain aspects of factual  knowledge (see Slocum,1985, p.16).
It was pointed out by Kirschner(1982, p.18) that, to a certa in degree, thisrequirement can be met by means of a systemof semantic features.
For NL comprehens ionsystems the automatic  formulat ion of a part ia limage of the world often belongs to the cereof the system; such a task certa in ly  goes farbeyond pure l inguist ic  analysis  and descr ip-tion.Winograd (1976) claims that a l inguist icdescr ipt ion should handle "the entire complexof the goals of the speaker" (p.269,275).
Itis then poss ib le to ask what are the main184features relevant for the pattern ing of thiscomplex and what are the re lat ionsh ips  betweenunderstand ing all the goals of the speakerand having internal ized the system of a natu-ral language.
It seems to be worth whi le toreexamine the d i f ferent  kinds and degrees ofunderstanding.2.
Understand ing the sentence.Segmentat ion r d isambiguat ion  and identi -f icat ion of units of the individual  levelsare the main tasks of the e lementary  steps ofunderstand ing an utterance.
(i) The lowest step consists in the seg_i Imentat ion of the cont inuous f low of sound in-to individual  phones; their sequence can beunderstood as cons ist ing in subsequent pointsof a feature space, the indiv idual  featurevalues of the space corresponding to the dis-t inct ive features, which have to be identi -fied.
D isturbances oi\] this level may be dueto noise or to phys io log ica l  i r regular i t ies.On the phone, in a crowded room, the utteranceI don~t understand you may mean that thehearer is unable to ident i fy  the utteredphones.
(ii) - (iii) A phoneme may consist  of sev-eral phonic variants,  and a str ing of phonemescan be decomposed into morphs, each of whichcorresponds to a morpheme; the latter is afeature space again, the values of the fea-tures here being the semes (preterite, geni-hive, plural  .... ).
Thus, if F (a sequence ofphones) is (the phonet ic  shape of) an utter -ance, Phone, Phoneme,  Morph and Morpheme be-ing the sets of all phones, phonemes, morphsand morphemes, respect ively,  of the language1 descr ibed,  we can write:F ~ _ _ (f\] ~.
?.,fn \] , where 1 ~ n,P is a l\[lapping of Phone onto PhonemeMorph  C Phoneme ~ ( i .e .Morph  is a propersubset of the set of all str ingsof phonemes\]M C Morph  x MorphemePhoneme ?
'=  {x ~ Phoneme@;A,gm~ ..... .
~ s ~orph(x  = ~l ..... mp) ;thus Phoneme ?
is the set of str ings of phone-mes that const i tute str ings of morphs.
Thed isambiguat ion  ident i fy ing the str ing of mor-phemes conveyed by x can only be made, in thegenera\]  case, after the syntact ic pattern ingof the sentence, its meaning and its f i t t inginto the co-text  and s i tuat ion has beengrasped.
The steps of understand ing thus can-not be performed in a un i form order; they are2 checked by means of tr ial  and error.
(iv) If one is reading without  payingmuch attention, one "wakes up" when one'smore or less subconsc ious interpretat ion en-counters an obstacle (e.g.with a garden-pathsentence); one real izes that it is necessaryto go back .i.n the text to where one's atten-t ion was derai led, and read again, paying duerespect  not only to (surface) syntax, butalso to understand ing on the higher degrees.
(v) If the hearer understands the lin-guist ic (literal\] meaning (or, reaches a dis-ambiguat ion of the utterance),  s/he under-stands e.g.
th i s  le t te r  as the Object ive of(i) and as the Actor of (2\]; further detours(using cr i ter ia  from higher degrees) decideon the role of p lanes  in a token of (3).
(1) This letter I got only today.
(2) This letter came only today.
(3) F ly ing planes can be dangerous.The level of l inguist ic  meaning (tecto-grammatics,  under ly ing structure) is languagespecif ic and comprises the theta roles (deepcases, va lency slots\] as wel l  as the topic/focus ar t icu lat ion (which is semant ica l ly  re-levant for the scopes of operators  and forpresupposi t ions) ;  see Sgall  et a l .
( in  press\].without knowing the s i tuat ion it is im o-poss ib le  to tell who is referred to by I in(1), what is.meant by th i s  le t te r ,  and so on.Thus, cons ider ing the sense of an utterance(i.e., of a token of sentence in a discourse\]to consist  in a combinat ion of the meaning ofthe sentence with the speci f icat ion of thereference oi_-- the express ions it contains, wecome to a further degree of understanding,i l lustrated by Are  you speak ing  about  the le t -ter  you got  f rom my brother?
.
This step leadsus beyond the system of language, which hasno means to identi fy the objects referred to.In the protctypica l  s i tuat ions of communica-t ion I is understood, since who hears the ut-terance \]knows who utters it.
You,  here ,  now,we (and thus also your ,  up to now .
.
.
.  )
aresimilar, a l though they are not del imited asfor the range of reference.
Without knowingthe situation, the hearer also is unable tospeci fy the reference of th i s  le t te r ,  thehouse ,  a f r iend  of  mine .
.
.
The sense of utter-ances can be ident i f ied only by means of non--- l inguist ic  clues.3.
Unders tand inq  in communicat ion.
(vi\] The ident i f icat ion of reference iscondit ioned by non- l inguist ic  factors, withall expressions not having a unique refer-ence.
The main factor is the speaker's assump-tion concerning the h ierarchy of sal ience(prominence) of the items in the heater 's  mem-ory.
As Haj i~ovl  et al (1982; 1984\] pointout, it refers to the most sal ient item, thetab le  to the table act ivated by having occur-red in the focus (comment) of a preceding ut-terance (or by situation, common interest, .?.
\](vii) The next degree concerns habitualconnotat ions,  a poss ib ly  intended inference,see Winograd (1976, 275\], regular cognit ivere lat ionships (cf.
~frames ~ and "scenarios'\],and issues connected with conversat ional  max--ims and stone wall ing, see Joshi  et al (1984)(viii) Non-habi tual  inferences are placedalong a scale of complexity,  cf.
Hint ikka(1975), so that an e lementary use of intel-lect (proper to most human beings, though notqua users of a language\] may be d is t inguished3 from conscious intel lectual  effort.Another  h ierarchy of inferences, concern-ing the d i f ference between "what  I am told"and "why ,  starts with the d is t inct ion of di-rect and indirect speech acts, and cont inueswith that between i l locut ion and per locut ion,inc luding further degrees of the type "He185wants me to react in this way; but why doeshe?"
- "He wants to achieve this and this bymy reaction; but for what purpose?
", .
.
.4.
Conclusions.The theory of language cannot be exclus ive-ly based on language understanding.
Comingback to the quest ion put in ?
i, we find thatamong the degrees of understanding only thosefrom ?
2 immediately concern the structureof language, and even with them factual knowl-edge plays a big role.
The degrees (vi) to(viii\]i and thus also "the entire complex ofgoals" of the speaker goes far beyond thedomain of l inguist ics,  contrary to Winograd.A theoret ical  account of language is a neces-sary ingredient of a model of comprehension;it al lows us not to use ad hoc solutions,which at a later stage could prevent a usefulgenera l izat ion of the comprehens ion system,its adaptat ion to new appl icat ions,  etc.When evaluat ing a l inguist ic theorv oneshould ask whether it can be embedded in atheory of communicat ion;  an economical  ac- -count of topic and focus makes it possible todescr ibe the meaning of a sentence as a pro-cedure instruct ing the hearer how tochange the contents of her/his memory, andthus to connect the handl ing of sentencestructure with that of the patterning of adiscourse.Notes1 We neglect the cases where a phone func-t ions in d i f ferent  contexts as a var iant  oftwo di f ferent  phonemes.2 Disambiguat ion was discussed in the frameof neural -net  l inguist ics and cognit ivescience by Schnel le (1984, esp.12); cf.
hisex.
Per  Pat ient  hat te  e inen  Wacht raum VS.Die  Kaserne .
.
.3 Other aspects of inferencing are studied asbased on logical entai lment, leading from thesense of an utterance - cf.
2 Iv) - to theproposi t ion (a funct ion from possible worldsinto truth values);  the spec i f icat ion of re-ference most ly  is tacit ly assumed to be pre-sent in a proposit ion.
For an analysis ofbel ief sentences and other "proposit ional"att itudes, as wel l  as of such paradoxes, a~that  of the Liar 's and for contradict ionssuch as those concerning round squares  andsimilar expressions it is indispensable towork with a clear d i f ference between (a) thelevel of l inguist ic  meaning (disambiguatedunder ly ing structure\],  (b\] the layer of sense(including the speci f icat ion of reference\] ,and (c\] the psychologica l  domain of context(requiring a descr ipt ion of the re lat ivesal ience of the items in the speaker's andheater 's memories\] ;  cf.
Sgall et al (inpress, Ch.l\].ReferencesHaj i~ovl  E., Sgall P. and J .Vrbovl  (1984\],Topic, Focus and How to Identi fy Them,Groningen Arbei ten zur germanist ischenL inguist ik  25, 121-143Haj i~ovl  E. and J .Vrbovl  (1982\], On the Roleof the Hierarchy of Act ivat ion,  inCOLING 82 (ed.J .Horeck~), Prague, lO7-113Hint ikka J.
\[1975\], Impossible PossibleWorlds Vindicated,  Journal  of Phil.Logic 4, 475-484Joshi  A., B.Webber and R.M.Weischedel  \[1984),Prevent ing False Inferences, in Proceed-dings of Col ing 84, Stanford, 134-138Kirschner Z.
(1982), A Dependency-Based Anal-ysis of Engl ish for the Purpose of Ma-chine Translat ion,  Expl iz i te  Beschrei-bung der Sprache und automat ische Text-bearbei tung IX, PragueSchnel le H. (1984), Programming of Net Lin-guist ic Processes, GENET 17a, BochumSgall P., Haj i~ov~ E. and J .Panevov~ (inpress\], The Meaning of the Sentence inIts Semantic and Pragmatic Aspects, Rei-del (Dordrecht\] and Academia (Prague\]Slocum J.
(1985), A Survey of Machine Trans-lation, Computat ional  L inguist ics  Ii,1-17Vauquois  B. and C.Boitet  (1985\], AutomatedTrans lat ion at Grenoble Universitv,  Com-putat ional  L inguist ics  ii, 28-36Winograd T. (1976\], Towards a ProceduralUnderstanding of Semantics, Revue inter-nat ionale de phi losophie,  260-303186
