Generating Natural Language Text in a Dialog SystemMare Koit Media SaluveerDepartment of Programming2 Juhan Liivi StreetTartu State University202400 Tar tu  Estonia USSRArtificial Intelligence Laboratory78 Tiigi StreetTartu State University202400 Tartu Estonia USSRA~stractThe paper deals with generation of natu-ral language text in a dialog system.
Theapproach is based on principles underlyingthe dialog system TARLUS under developmentat Tartu State University.
The main problemsconcerned are the architecture of a dialogsystem and its knowledge base.
Much atten-tion is devoted to problems which arise inanswering the user queries - the problems ofplanning an answer, the non-linguistic andlinguistic phases of generating an answer.1.
IntroductionSeveral problem domains can be named whe-re the task of automatic generation of natu-ral language texts, not sentences, has beco-me the"hot topic", e.g.
machine translation,dialog between the user and the computer ina dialog systam~ etc.
Given the two centraI~ roblems of natural language generation, hat  o f  what  to  s.ay and that  o f  how to  sayit, we discuss shortly the main componentsoF s dialog system which should enable thesystem to solve the problem of how to decidewhat to say, and then proceed to a more de-tailed treatment of the second task.
The pre-sent approach draws heavily from the dialogsystem TARLUS being developed at Tartu StateUniversity, Estonia, USSR.
Several modulesof the system have been working independent-ly for some time already, and experiments areunder way in merging these modules into aunified dialog system.
Though the surfacegeneration is carried out in the Estonianlanguage the authors hope that a number ofideas which have found their way into thissystem will be of more general interest.2.
Main Components of the Dialog SystemThe dialog system consists of the follow-ing modules: Linguistic Processor, Turns"Interpreter, Turns" Generator, Planner, Dia-log Monitor, 5oluar~ In addition to this thedialog system includes several knowledge ba-ses for long-term knowledge: goals" know-ledge base, problem domain knowledge base,linguistic knowledge base, dialog knowledgebase, partner's knowledge base and self-knowledge base.
To store short-term know~-edge the system contains a number of models:of activated goals of the system, of the textof preceding dialog turns, of the communica-tive situation, of the partner, of the sys-tem itself.Dialog partners always follow certaingoals in their interaction.
Yhe goals of thedialog system may be thought of as implicitquestions the system is seeking answers toduring the dialog.
The long-term goals ofthe system are kept in goals'~ knowledge basewhere they have attached to them priorityassessments.
In the course of interactionthese goals (or subgoals) may rise or lower.For every new goal the system must set apriority assessment.There can be three types of questions inthe dialog system: user questions to thesystem, the questions of the system to it-self, and the questions of the system toits user.
Every guestion in its turn mayconcern either the problem domain or theprocess of interaction.
The central notionof the dialog is a "turn".
In natural dialogboth interlocutors generate their turns incertain order and thus we may represent adialog as a sequence of interchanging turnst;,where t~, t~,L etc.
ere the turns of the first~ter locuto~,  b b ~nd t1~ t~, etc.
are the turnsof the second interlocutor.
Every turn mayconsist-of one or several communicativesteps, e.g.
the turn refusal may consist ofthe communicative steps REFUSAL + MOTIVATION,where REFUSAL dominates MOTIVATION.The dialog system functions 8s follows.The Linguistic Processor carries out mor-phological and syntactic analysis of theinput turn with the help of l inguistic knowl-edge base.
A later task of the LinguisticProcessor is the generation of the surfaceanswer from its semantic representation.The Turns~ Interpreter fulfills severaltasks:i) it constructs the semantic representationof the turn with the help of problem domainknowledge base.
For the interpretation of thefolIowing turns it may be necessary to takeinto account the preceding turns of the~pa~t-hers.
To this end the Turns" Interpretersimultaneously constructs the semnatic inter-pretation of the dialog text already 8na~i ?lysed.ii) the Turns" Intenpreter should recognizein a turn the corresponding communicativestep(s).
For this task it uses the dialogknowledge base.
At the same time the Turns"Interpreter forms the model of communicativesituation, by supplementing it with typicalstructures of recognized communicative stepsand combining them into bigger units on thebasis of recognized turns and turn cycies.iii) it establishes the activated goals ofthe dialog system during a dialog procee-ding from the turn under interpretation.
Thequestions which the user poses to the systemand the questions that the system formuIates576on the basis of recognized communicativesteps with the he~p of "interest rules" arecarried into the model of goals and suppliedwith priority assessments.When the Turns" Interpreter has finishedits job the Planner scans the goals in thegoaIs knowledge base and the model of acti-vated goa\]s. It a~so tries to find answersto the remaining questions by addressingthe Solver when the question concerns theproblem domain, or the Dialog Monitor whenthe problem is about communication,The Turns" Generator selects the type ofanswer turn on the basis of the set of ques-tions chosen by Planner and the communicati ~ve steps which will form the prospectiveturn.
For instance, the question may be con-veyed as communicative steps ANSWER, EX-PRESSION OF DOUBT, etc.
The question thathas not yet been answered may be conveyedas communicative steps QUESTIONj REQUEST,OROER, etc.
Secondly, the Turns Generatorconstructs the semantic representation ofthe future turn end adds it to the model oftext of preceding dialog turns.
The genera-tion of an answer turn is finished by theLinguistic Processor which transforms seman-tic representation of a turn into a text.To organize cooperation between the dif-ferent modules is a very complicated processWe share the opinion that it cannot proceedlinearly but is rather organized as coope-ration between experts permanently exchan-ging information among themselves (Oim etel., 1984) ,3.
Knowledge Used in Text Generation3.1.
Dialog knowledge baseDialog knowledge base contains typestructures of communicative steps and ruleswhich the dialog system uses in interpretingthe replies of its partner and generatingits own turns.\[he main structural components of a com-municative step are:SETTING - facts describing the situationwhere the given communicat ivestep takes place: preconditionswhich hold about the author ofthat step or, in the author'smind, about the partner as well asabout the objective realityPLOT - contents/theme of the given commu-nicative stepGOAL - communicative goal of the authorof the stepCONSEO - hhe outcome of the communicativestep~ i.e.
the changes in the com-.municatiue situation which takeplace as a result of  that communi-cative step.For the cooperation with the dialog sys-tem to be natural the dialog knowledge baseshould also contain certain rules of commu-nication which the system should follow whencarrying out the dialog.
Among them the mostimportant are the principle of cooperationI Grice 1975) and the principle of politeness Leech 1983).
In dialog knowledge base theseprinciples ere contained as fixed types ofru l  es.In the following we exemplify some of 'these rules together with some examples ofusing them in live dialogs.I.
The general form of rules of behavioris as follows:IF ~s i tuat lon~ THEN ~act ion~For ins tance ,IF interlocutors A and B have a commongoal G and A thinks that there existsan obstacle on the way of achieving GTHEN A has the right to demand from B thediscussion of that obstacle and dis-covering of the possible ways of or@recoming itThese rules, on the one hand, limit theactivity of the author of a turn in oon~tructino his turns and, on the other hand,help the addressee understand these turnsby drawing implicatures.Implicetures are inferences drawn if twoconditions are met.
First, the turn of thepartner violates a principle of communica-tion and, secondly, the communicative situ-ation does not contain any clues that it isdone intentionally.
Therefore the addresseestarts making hypotheses, i.e.
drawing infe-rences which help him construct such an in~terpretation for the input turn which satis~flee the principle of cooperation.
If thereare no counterarguments to this hypothesisthe addressee supposes this to be the inten-ded meaning of the input turn.Drawing of implicatures in the dialogsystem proceeds according to special proce~dures oased on rules of behavior.2= A special case of rules of behaviorare ra metic inference rules:IF ~type of communicative step~THEN ~default GOAL~>Where GOAL" is a goal inferred by defaultfrom the GOAL of the author of the turn.
Forinstance, when A asks B how to reach a goal(e.g.
How can I get to the railway station?
)then his goal may be to achieve that result(i.e.
to be st the station).3.
Rules of interest have the form<interest source>~<quest ion /prob lem>They determine from the type of a commu-nicative step the questions, or "interests",which the interlocuto~ must find answers to.They typically concern such problems, as= what does the author suppose about theaddressee when asking a question ormaking a proposal- does the claim of the author hold- ere there  any obstac les  to the  p lanput forward in a communicative steptetc.As interestsources may function variouscommunicative situations with wide differen-ce in their complexity.
The questions theytrigger are typically related to the struc-tural parts SETTING and GOAL of the commu-nlcative s~tep.Here are some examples of the rules (Amauthor, B= addressee):A: REFUSAL ~ B: Why A refused (Whatis the MOTIVE of REFUSAL)?577A: CLAIM P ~ B: Does P hold?4.
Rules of logical inference use datawithin one communicative step .
.
.
.
.
only.
We havetreated that type of rules in detail in(Oim, 5a luveer~ 1985) and w~ll therefore notdiscuss them here.5.
Rules of turn ,compilation~ are used inconstructing and interpreting a turn whichconsists of more then one communicative steps.For examplep a turn expressing a refusal mayconsist of only one communicative stepREFUSAL, but more common are such combinati-ons as REFUSAL plus MOTIVE, only MOTIVE,REFUSAL p lus  ALTERNATIVES, etc.
.
The ru les  o fturn compilatlon fix the possible combinati-ons of communicative steps and their possib-le sequence in a turn (the sequence of turnsis important because the steps ere not simp-ly linearly ordered but there exist fixedsubordlnation relations between the communi-cative steps within a turn).
These rules ha-ve the general formtype of turn ~ CI~ C2~ ..., C k(k~l ) ,where  CI ,O .
.
, C k are types of communi-cative steps~6.
To ru les  o f  d ia lo~ coherence  be longf i r s t  and fo remost  ru les  wh ich  determinefrom the components SETTING and CONSEQ of apartner's turn the contents of the componentSETTING in the other partner's turn.There are  several subgroups within thisgenera l  group:( i )  de fau l t  ru les  are used in  such s i tua -t ions  in  a d ia log  where the turn of a partneri s  "b lank" ,  i .e .
when the partner does notanswer to a remark.
E?G.
t when somebody asks"Don't  you be l ive  me?"
then a s i lence fromhis  partner  i s  equal to a negatiue turn (thepartner does not  be l ive  the author) .
(ii) rules determining cycles of turns incoherent dialog.
It has been pointed outthat as a minimal unit in interaction func-tions not a pair of turns but a triplette.g.A: INITIATIONB: ~EACTIONA: ACCEPTANCE OF REACTIONA: Would you pass the sugar, please.B: Here you are.A: Thanks .Here are  some other  examples  o f  such t r i -p le ts  in dialogs:A: QUESTION - B: ANSWER - A: THANKINGA: QUESTION - B: SPECIFYING QUESTION - A:ANSWER TO SPECIFYING QUESTION - B: ANSWERA: THANKING - B: ACCEPTANCE OF THANKINGA: Can I have a bot t le  o f  b randy?B: Are you twenty -one?A: No.B: No.The rules of these two groups may be bestrepresented i n  the form of augmented transi-tion networks where types of communicatives teps  cor respond to  nodes and the  s tepswhich can follow one another in a dialog areconnected with arcs (Me:zing, 1980).3.2.
Linguistic knowledge baseThis base includes knowledge about mor-phology= syntax and to a certain degree ofsemant ics  o f  the  language.The lexicon stores declarative knowledgeof the language in the form of followingentries:<primary form> <stem> ~type of stem><semantic characteristics of word>Morphological rules should guarantee themorphological analysis end synthesis of thewords used, i.e.
a transition from the wordform to its morphological representation(number I case, tense, person) in analysisand the reversed transition in generation.The output of syntactic analysis (and in-put to syntactic generation) is a tree ofdependencies.In order to reduce the number of possibleresulting dependency trees we may use in-stead of purely syntactic rules suntactico-semantic rules which combine syntactic andsemantic features of a word:word 1 word 2IF morphological morphologicalinformation I information 2+semantic semanticcharacteristics I characteristics 2THEN word I relati?n~ word 2Linguistic knowledge base is used mainlyby the Linguistic Processor.
During parsingthe input to the Linguistic Processor is theuser's utterance in natural language, theoutput is the syntactic representation ofthe turn in the form of dependency trees.
Insurface generation the input to the Linguis-tic Processor is the dependency tree(s) andthe output is an answer turn in natural lan-guage.3.5.
Problem domain knowledge baseTo this base belong definitions of all theobjects and relations between them in thatproblem domain and ale5 the methods of solv-ing the problems the system deals with.
Thedefinitions of objects end their relationsmay be represented in the form of frames,the algorithms of solving problems as proce-dures with parametres.
Some procedures maybe fil lers of frame slots.
This knowledge ba-se is used by both the Turns Generator andInterpreter, as well as by the Planner (whensolving problems which have cropped up du-ring the d ia log) .4.
Answering the User: Text Generation4.1 .
Planning the answerIn planning its answer the dialog systemproceeds from its current activated goals.The Planner choses questions from the modelof goa ls  which then underlie the outputturn.
The choice is made according to thepriorities of the questions, which may con-cern either the problem domain or interacti-on.
Planning the answer turn is carried out578simultaneously with interpreting the user'sinput turn.
In case of questions which areconnected with the problem domain the Plann-er makes use of the Solver.
The Solver triesto answe~ the questions put to the system bythe use~snW~o?
?~y the system itself andmarks in the model of goals these questionswhich it has succeeded in finding an answerto~In order to answer questions about inter-action the Planner turns to the Dialog Moni-tor.
Most questions about interaction belongto the domain "system questions to itself".Rare exception are ouestions of the type"How dare you speak  to me like this?"
Thedialog system usually does not direct thequestions about interaction to its partnerexcept in cases when the partner's turn some-how concerns the dialog system as a "persona-lity" (in man-machine dialog this is yet anunimportant aspect of interaction).
To findout  such quest ions  the dialog system usesits knowledge about dialog, as well as inte-rest rules and dialog coherence rules andits own and the partner's models.
In inter-preting a turn the dialog system must alsocheck whether the partner has stuck to aIlrules of communication.
In the opposite ca-se a question appers in the column "systemquestions to the user" which the dialog sys-tem may ask about the violation of communi-cative rules.4.2.
Non-lingulstic synthesis of the answerAs a r0~sult of the work of the Planner inthe model of goals of the dialog system the-re ere a number of questions from the systemto its user from which the Turns'Generatormust construct the semantic representationof the future turn.
With the highest p r io r i -ty are questions about the problem domain.The Turns'Generator determinesi) the possible types of  answer turns -enswer~ refusal, request etc?ii) the choice among the possible alterna-tives with the help of rules of behavioriii) the use of rules of turn compilation bydeciding which types of communicativesteps the turn of the dialog system mustconsist ofp end filling in concrete in-formation to the chosen typical structu-res of communicative steps.As a result of all these actions the sem-antic representation of the future turn Isfo rmed.4 .3 .
L ingu is t i c  synthes is  o f  the  answerThe generation of surface text from i t ssemantic representation takes place in theLinguistic Processor and can be divided intothree stages: transformation of semantic re-presentation into syntactic (semantic synthe-sis), transformation of syntactic representa-tion Into morphological (syntactic synthesis)and transformation of morphological represen~rat ion into the surface text (morphologicalsynthesis).4.3 .1 .
Semantic synthesisIn the process of semantic synthesis it isnecessary to ~slice~ the semantic represents-t ion  o f  the  fu ture  text  ( text  f rame in  caseo f  TARLUS) in to  sentence  representat ions~ :i .e .
sentence  f rames .
To ach ieve  th i s  thef rames  which  be long  to  the  semant ic  catego-ry  o f  ACTION.
must be separated  f rom one en~other  accord ing  to  the i r  sequence in  t ime.Every  ac t ion  f rame i s  t rans formed in to  a de -pendency t ree  o f  a ( s imp le )  sentence .
A num-ber  of slots in the action frame containingirrelevant information from the point ofview of the user are disposed of (e.g.
slotSUP referring to the generic notion of a ca-tegory, procedural slots in frames, etc.
).The remaining slot fi l lers serve as labelsof the nodes of the dependency tree, whileslot ~ames serve as labels for the arcs onthe tree.
The preliminary order of the nodeewilI be determined by the corresponding verbpatterns for that action.
A verb patternwill determine the order of verb and its at-t r ibutes  In  an i so la ted  sentence  but  not  inactual text.
Verb patterns depend upon tar-get language.The text frame is composed of either ter-minal or conceptual frames.
The names of theformer are words of the target (i.e.
Esto-nian) language.
The names of the latter arenames of semantic categories, e.g.
ACTION,ANIMAL, TRANSFER, etc.
If the dependencytree node is labelled by a semantic catego-ry, a word of the target language must besubstituted for it depending on the context.E.g.
instead of the conceptual frame TRANS-FER the system has to choose one of thewords from the list of verbs such as ~uy,borrow, rob, make a present, etc,, The pro-o~-~hoos~ng a correct lexical itemfor a semantic category node is a category-oriented pass through a binary tree eachnode of which presents a discrimination pro-cedure.
The tree gradually limits the set ofpossible candidates until finally there will~e only one word lefto The choice of a wordamong nea~ synonyms is a means for achievinga greater coherence of the text (cf.
lexe-mes like steel, pilfer, nab~ purloin, etc.for the semantic notion of stealing).
Whenchoosing among these near synonyms the Lin-guistic Processor should also take into acc-ount the model of the partner: the outputtext shoul not contain words which are un-known to him.4.3.2.
Syntactic synthesisThis stage can in its turn divided intotwo steps: first, transformations on depen-dency trees with the aim of achieving grea-ter coherence of the text and, secondly,suppying the lexemes with morphological in-formation.To achieve a greater smoothness of theoutput text it is necessary to perform somemodifications on the dependency trees duringth i s  phase o f  generation:i) reordering of nodesThe primary order of nodes in a dependen-cy tree is determined by the verb patternwhich does not take into account the placeof the sentence in the text.
Therefore, itwill be necessary sometimes to change theorder  o f  nodes :  the  nodes express ing  thetheme of the sentence will be placed higher579and those representing the theme will beplaced lower.
To accomplish this reorderingof nodes,, a mechanism of three stacks isused, The first two stacks contain the labelsof the two immediately preceding dependencytrees~ In the third stack those labels whichhave occured in the previous two stacks arealso placed lower.
Experiments have shownthat it is sufficient to take into accountthe word order of only two immediately prece-ding sentences.
Even more - if the system"remembers" too much from the preceding in-formation, the smoothness of the text mayget losto The use of thls, method allows usto get text (2) instead of text (1) :(1) John took a book from John's briefcase.John gave Mary the book,~John left John's briefcase, on the table.
(2) John took a book from John's briefcase.The book he gave to Mary.John's briefcase John left on the table.ii) Use of  pronounsA pronoun may be substituted for a lexemecorresponding to a node of a dependency treeaccording to special rules.
The applicationof these rules gives us text (3) instead oftext (2):(3) John took a book from his briefcase.The book he gave to Mary.His briefcase John left on the table.iii) Deletion of repeated phrasesIf there exist similar subtrees in two de-pendency trees then in the second tree thestem may be substituted for the subtree.
Theresult is text  (4)t(4) John took a book from his briefcase.The book he gave to Mary.The briefcase he left on the table.iv) Integration of two or more dependencytrees into a coherent graph.One of the rules in this domain states:IF in several immediately following depen-dency trees one and the same lexemefulfi l ls the role of agent/patientTHEN all these trees may be integrated intoone coherent graph by removing fromthe second tree downward the nodeswith identical label, and connectingarcs to the corresponding node of thefirst t reeThis  ru le  he lps  us get text  (5) ins teadof text (1) :(5) John took a book from John's br ie fcasepgave Msry the book and left onthe tab le  John's  b r ie fcase .The use of  these ru les  in  d i f fe rent  orderresults in different, output texts,To ascribe morphological i n fo rmat ion  tolexemes syntactic rules are used which deter-mine from the syntactlco- semantic relationsbetween two words the morphological charac-teristics of the words., and as a result weget the morphological representation of thetext,5804.3.3.
Morphological synthesisOn the basis of morphological representa-tion with the help of primary forms of wordsand their morphological characteristics con-crete word forms are built.
If it is possibleto construct several parallel forms as~ forexample, are short and long forms of the plu-ral nouns in Estonian, then the choice of oneof them is an additional means for achievingfluency of the text.From the above mentioned facts it may beconcluded that coherent text generation dif-fers in many respects from single sentencegeneration, and the regularities governingthis process must be taken into account fromthe very start of the generation process.5.
ConclusionSeveral modules are involved in genera-tion of natural language turns in a naturallanguage dialog system.
First, the Plannerchooses among the currently activated goalsof the dialog system those which the systemwould carry out in its reply to the user.Secondly, Turns'Generator constructs thesemantic representation of the answer turn,i.e~ chooses the necessary communicativesteps for carrying out the goals laid downby the Planner.
It also fills in these stepswith concrete data by using knowledge aboutthe problrm domain and/or about the communi-cative process.
The Linguistic Processor gi~yes the finishing touches to the surface text.But before a turn i s  communicated to theuser there should be a ~'check-up" unterpre-tatlon of it - the dialog system carries outthe possible interpretations of  th~s turn inits "mind" t using additional knowledge fromits model of the partner and its knowledgebase.
The result is compared with the inten-ded meaning of the turn and in case of dis-crepansies the system should ~eturn to themodule where the interpretations were stillsimilar in order to try another possible wayof genera*long the answer turn~Of the modules listed above there is acomplete version of the Linguistic Processorboth for parsing and generation running on aRyad 1060 computer in the language PL/I~ TheTurns'Generate~p~is being tested at the pre-sent time.ReferencesGrice H.P.
1975.Logic and Congersation.
-Syntax and Semantics, uol~ 3.
Speech Acts.New Y~rk: Academic Press.Leech 0.
1983.
Principles of pragmatlcs.Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.Metzing D. 1980.
ATNs used as a proceduraldialog model.
Prec.
COLING-80, Tokyo,487-491.Olm H,, Kolt M., Litvak S., Roosmaa T., Salu-veer M. 1984.
Reasoning and discourse:experts as a link between high and lowlevel in fe rences .
-  Papers on ArtificialIntelligence, eel.VII, Tartu, I ?
@~90.Oim H., 5aluveer M. 1985?
Frames in linguis-tic descriptions.
- Quaderni di Semantica,vol.
VI, N 2, 282-292.
