Two Approaches to Commonsense Inferencing forDiscourse Analysis.Marc  DymetmanUniversit6 Scientif ique t Mtd ica le  de GrenobleGroupe d'Etudes pour la Traduct ion Automat ique B.P.
6838042 Saint Mart in d'H~res FRANCEAbstract:The dominant philosophy regarding the formalization of CommonsenseInferencing in the physical domain consists in the exploitation of the "tarskian"scheme axiomatization <-> interpretation borrowed from mathematical logic.The commonsense postulates constitute the axiomatization, and the real worldprovides the "model" for this axiomatization.The observation of the effective activity of linguistic ommunication a d of thecommonsense inferencing processes which are involved in it show theunacceptability of this scheme.An alternative is proposed, where the notion of "conceptual category" plays aprincipal role, and where the principle of logical adequation of an axiomatizationto a model is replaced by a notion of "projection" of a conceptual structure ontothe observed reality.1.
Commonsense Inferencing in context: Commonsense and tilel i ngu is t i c  p rocess .1.1 Disambiguation a d Commonsense.Let's consider the following text fragment:"Mary ch~opped the plate on the table.
It broke."
fT. Winograd)It is quite clear that the disambiguation f the pronominal lexical reference of"if' (table or plate) involves, in addition to the syntactic and semantic constraints(where "semantics" is taken in a narrow sense of "formal semantics") a certainunderstanding of the natural structure of the described events.
This understanding,shared by all members of the linguistic community, we can name it"Commonseuse".In the case at hand, commonsense informs us that:i) a plate dropped on a table will in all likelihood collide with the table.ii) when such a collision happens, it is not unlikely for the plate to break,but quite abnormal for the table to break.This shared Commonsense knowledge is taken into account at the pragmaticaldiscourse level both by the speaker and the hearer, and allow the speaker toreconstruct, with the help of Gricean-type conventions of communication,the meaning intended by the speaker and therefore the correct pronominalreference: "it" refers to the plate.1.2 Linguistic Acceptability and Commonsense.The disambiguation problem just considered is closely linked to the problem ofthe linguistic acceptability of a text fragment.
In the following example, theacceptability/unacceptability of the2 texts is due to the possibility/impossibilityon the part of the listener to reconstitute a direct causal ink between the firstelement and the second element of each text:"John's parachute had teared to pieces.
He crashed on the ground.
"*"John's parachute had got damped by the rain.
He crashed on the ground.
"1.3 Reconstitution f the information implicit in discourse and commonsense.The previous examples howed already a relatively limited form of implicitinformation reconstitution i a piece of discourse: the text fragment wasacceptable if it was possible for the listener to restore an implicit causal link inthe text at hand.
Here is now a more impressive example of implicit informationreconstitution bythe listener of a piece of discourse (fig.
1).Here, the reconstitntion f the informations implicitely contained in the originaltext makes use of at least 3 different domains of comreonsense:- commonsense in the physico/biological domain: to fall, to collide,disruptive consequences of collision, to be hurt, to die.- conmaonsense in the psychological domain: a murder consists in anintentional killing, i.e.
with a plan the goal of which is the death ofsomebody.- commonsense in the social domain: the way in which society treats crime.
"John was condemned to deat..h by th, e court.
He had pusltedhis Wife out of the Window of t.heir 1Oth floor apartment"Implicit modellzatlon reconstructx, d by the listener:- dohm~ pushes h i s  w i fe  out  o f  the lOth f loor  window- she fells f r~  thl 10th floor to the ~ound,  ~athering speecall the ~ l le- she co l l idas  v lo lent l~  w i th  the ground- she i~ Seve~el~ httr tshe d ieson Inqu l r~ I~ made- (he inqu l r~ demonstrates the In tent lona l l t  V o f  doh~'$ acta coUr t  ~eet5 o~d renders  I t~ verd ic t :  doM is  condemned todeath  fo r  the et~der o f  h i s  w i fe .Figure 1This example may serve to remind us of the easiness and the swiftness withwhich we are able to reconstruct a complex set of iaforntations implicit in apiece of discourse fi'om our mastery of Commonsense in a variety of domainssimultaneously.
However, iu the previously given examples, only the "physical"domain Cnatural phenomena") was made use of, and in the remainder of thispaper, we will essentially restrict ourselves to this domain of Commonsense.2.
The dominant model for Commonsense Inferencing in thephysical domain.A considerable interest has arosen recently in A.I.
for Commonsensemodelizations of natural phenomena.
The articles of Pat Hayes <Hayes 1978>seem to have set the tone for the philosophy presently predominant in thedomain, of which the collections of papers <Hobbs, Moore (eds) 1985> and<Hobbs et at.
1985> can provide recent examples.The outlines of this attitude - which we call the Direct Interpretation approach(DI approach ) - towards Conuuonsense are the following:-The relation between theory and predictions i conceived ,as similar to what it isin "scientific" physics, but rite natural laws which are encoded in the theoryare different: essentially they are of a nmre "qualitative" and less "namericar'kind.-The inferential procedure is made in tbe deductive mode (in the sense of"deductive logic", opposed to "inductive").~Like "scientific" physics, "naive" physics should be able to predict - in adeductive manner - the greatest possible number of phenomena from thesmallest possible number of general "natural laws",-"Naive" physics is a strictly objectivist physics: it describes reality "as it is": tobe valuable, the laws and the consequences of the laws must be "true".-The description of the physical world is done through an axiomatization,typically in first-order logic, which respects the "tarskian" schema ofsemantical adequation of a logical theory to its model.
In this schema,borrowed from mathematical logic (fig.
2.a), the real world is supposed toprovide a model for the axiomadzation, which is a set of axioms representingphysical laws which are verified in the model (fig.
2.b):0x 0y Polnt(x) APolnt(y) A x .y  / /"> 31z StralghtLine(z)A Inc(x,z) A Inc(y,z)\[~2 : model of PleneGeometryInAerpretttion Axlometlc theory of ............. ,Plane GeometryF igure  2aobjOn(ob~ sur f )  A Top(sur f  vo l  ) ~ I F ~A 31 iq  Fu l l (vo l  l iq )f lo t tab le (ob j  ) ( - )Suppor ts (vo l  obj )(Pat Hages)Theory HodelFigure 2b5113.
Problems with the dominant model.3.1.
Deduction or Induction?3.1.1.
The linguistic examples given in section 1 demonstrate how difficult it isto consider the commonsense inferences which appear there as a process ofpurely deductive type.Thus, to take example 1.3, there is no logical necessity to the sequence ofimplicit events reconstructed by the listener: these informations are notdeducible from the explicit informations "John was condemned by the court"and "John had pushed his wife out of the window": Maybe there was a safety netin place, and maybe John murdered a policeman 3 days later, and so on and soforth...Actually, the analysis of the type of inferencing which are involved in thereconstitution of implicit informations in the examples of section 1 iscomplicated by the fact that Commonsense is not alone in the picture here:pragmatical conventions of communication come also into play and exploitthe elements of pure commonsense knowledge which are the ~ beliefs ofthe speaker and the hearer; place is lacking here for full discussion of thisproblem, but let's be satisfied with the following brief comments:At the level of discourse pragmatics, several types of intersentential"syntactical" relations between two contiguous declarative statements arepossible: Cause, Parallel, Exemplification, Explanation ....<Hobbs 1984>.
In the case at hand, it is the syntactical relation ofExplanation which is realized between the first statement "John wascondemned by the court" and the second statement "John had pushed his wifeout of the window".This relation of Explanation can only be validated ~ CommonsenseInferencing is capable to provide a "natural" explicative chain between thefirst statement and the second statement.Finally, the speaker and the hearer share conventions (in the sense of Grice's"conventional implicature" <Levinson 1983> which allow them to "agree"about which of the admissible reconstructions is the intended one, perhapswith the help of a common evaluation of the degree of "naturalness" of thedifferent admissible evenemcntial chains.At any rate, the commonsense inferencing level per se - which is exploited bythe pragmatic level - seems difficult o reconcile with a purely deductive process.In fact, the type of commonsense inferencing used in the examples of 1.3presents certain striking similarities with the two following inductive/recognitiveprocesses (by order of increasing complexity):If I observe abike leaning behind a tree trunk hiding its central parts from me,1 will have no difficulty to induce the existence of a unique bike, and not of 2bike-halves placed in this exact position by a malevolent aesthete.In a movie, a sequence of two shots, the first one showing a woman writing aletter, the second one showing a man reading a letter will be interpreted ashaving a certain structural unity: it is the same letter, it has been sent by tbewoman and received by the man, etc... (Here again, as cinema is acommunication medium, one must take into account not only thecommonsense level, but also pragmatical conventions).3.1.2.
Several attempts have been made recently to extend the standard eductionmechanisms of logic into "non-monotonic logics".
These attempts have beenrelatively successfull in accounting for several types of "default reasoning", but Iam not aware of any application of these techniques tothe extended "gestalt-type"reasoning exemplified in 3.1.1.3.1.3.
One of the other problems with the deductive approach of figure 2 is due tothe difficulty there is to maintain the coherence of the thousands of axioms likelyto be involved in any serious attempt to axiomatize any commonsense domain, atleast if one supposes &s direct a relation of interpretation asthe one in figure 2.The coherence of such an axiomatization is easy to guarantee inplanar geometry -for instance -, thanks to the fact that the structure of the RxR model ismathematically limpid, and that he correctness of the axiomatization is assured byits adequation toits model.
Quite other is the situation when we endeavour to use"reality" as our model, for we have no clear idea of the structure of this modelprior to our attempt at an axiomatization.3.2.
Commonsense observed.Another important difficulty with the approach of fig.
2 is due to its stricly"objectivist" character, i.e.
its insistance that Commonsense formalizations shouldstrictly respect the "reality" of natural phenomena.However, numerous psychological studies have unambiguously shown that ourintuitive comprehension f physical phenomena differs considerably from theobjective (scientific) physical state of affairs.
Thus, the following experiment hasbeen reported <Mc.
Closkey 1983>: a sample of "naive" subjects were asked whatthey believed is the trajectory followed by a ball thrown horizontally.
The resultswem:5 % of the subjects believed that the ball travels first in a straight horizontalline, then falls straight down.35 % of the subjects believed that it travels first horizontally in a straight line,then curves down for a while, then falls straight down.30% of the subjects believed that it begins to curve down immediately buteventually falls straight down.
(The scientific answer is that he ball follows a downward-oriented curve (closeto a parabola) all the while).The many observations of this kind make it difficult, if not downright impossible,to establish a system of physics which is at the same time "naive" and"objective", unless one considers that naive physics does not necessarily have tocopy the commonsense tructure which is observed in human individuals.
Thisattitude might be admissible - at least theoretically -, if one were attempting togive robots some understanding of the external world, but not if one seeks tomodelize the processes which are at the root of linguistic ommunication, forthese constantly make use of commonsense abilities actually present in Man.3.3.
The diversity of phenomena accounted for by Commonsense.Perhaps the most important source of troubles with the deductive approach ofsection 2 has to do with the fact that, contrarily to "scientific physics",Commonsense is not free to delimit its experimental domain in an "ideal" way.
Ithas to give an account, at its own level, of our cn:de experience of the world, as itpresents itself "naturally", whether or not this experience conforms to universalphysical aws.
But this experience is extremely varied and undisciplined: forinstance, although most physical bodies show a "natural tendency" to "fall" ifunsupported, this is neither the case with spinning-tops, nor of moving bicycles,nor the case of mercury in an upside-down thermometer, nor clouds, nor planes,nor the case of the Moon, etc...It is difficult to imagine that there exist universal qualitative "naive" postulatesfrom which one might deduce at the same time \]/.0.tit on one hand the unstabilityof a pencil set up on its point, and on the other hand the stability of aspinning-top or of a bicycle in movement.Also, many phenomena which Commonsense has no trouble giving an aposteriori account for are impossible to deduce from general laws, not onlyCommonsense laws, but often ~ laws too (in this instance, they areimpossible or very difficult o deduce in practice, but more rarely in principle): forinstance, the fact that a stone dropped into water will produce such-and-such asplash (a complex physico-mathematical fact); or, more dramatically, the fact thata cherry kernel planted into the ground will produce acherry-tree, oreven the factthat a moving bicycle is highly stable (even the experts do not seem to agree onthe exact reason why it is so), etc...However, although all these phenomena are impossible to deduce from generalphysical aws, Commonsense succeeds in partially InRtJy.aliag them andthem a posteriori with the help of general principles and schemata.
(An enlightening discussion of the opposition between deduction and motivationin the domain of lexical semantics an be found in <Lakoff 1985>.
)Let's give an illustration of what is to be understood by this a posteriori"structuration" of experience: our understanding of the behaviour of aspinning-top.5124.
Structuration of Experience: the Spinning-Top,I ~  and without claim to psychological ccuracy (no experimentalverification was made), Fig.
3 gives an idea of what an intuitive structuration fa spinning-top could look like:- Oo~ted obJ~ot, s~Jmn'~trtca) avouc~d an axl l- set upright on it= po~- hav~9 ~ fast rotattona| movement ~rotm~ Its =xts- tht axis oscillates around the yert~al d~rect~- tht "rotmno~l ml~etul" f l  =low~.y ~*r i~ l l  ~ut- t~o "~t lqe~tst  teed/notes" are fl~tk~ 9 agak,~t each other :a) "natural t~nden?V" of the object to fall dow~b) t~nder~ 9 of the lxls to Ira U ?~se to the vertical dtre?t~onthis last teMer~ V Is in I relMIon of meaotoat~-Iacreas~g ~etth ItsIts "?ausl" : the rotattonil rhovemea~ of the object ~rou~d its axisF igure  3Once structured in this manner, the spinning-top phenomenon is not any more araw experience, but has become an informed experience: what we can call,following <Lakoff 1985> a "natural category".Several points hould be noted:The structure of Fig.3 has only a remote connection to the actual mechanicalstructure of the phenomenon: there is no physical sense in speaking about a"tendency to stay vertical", and it is very problematical from the physics pointof view to divide the phenomenon i to causes and consequences.The spinning-top category has been structured with the help of a process ofmetaphorical importation <Lakoff, Johnson 1980> of pre-existingconceptual structures (which are categories too, but of a more abstract type, seesection 5), most notably the structure of "two antagonist tendencies fightingagainst each other".
This type of sUncture seems to be of wide use in languageand thought and has been extensively studied by Len Talmy <Talmy 1985>.Another imported conceptual structure which has served to build thespinning-top category is the category of "natural impetus loss" whichspecializes here to a structure of "rotational impetus loss".
(For a relatednotion, see the discussion of "Ohm's p-prim" in <DiSessa 1980>).TILe structure which has been given to tile spinning-top category is"explicative" (and "predictive") for a whole class of behavionrs of thespinning-top: thus, file fact that it is impossible for the top to stay vertical ifit is not rotating, the top's stability loss with time (because of the loss ofrotational impetus), etc...Tile structure of the spinning-top category is, in an essential way,nest-experimental: for an observer without experience of gyroscopic-typebehaviour, the top should have "fallen" and it would not have constituted apriori a special category.
From tile standpoint of such an observer, acartoonshowing a "spinning-top" losing its balance in the same way as a pen set onits point would have been perceived as the normal thing and would haveconstituted a dynamic category (see section 5) built with tileparallel-event construct (which is an abstract category) out of 2subcategories: "l~tll of an unbalanced body in contact with a surface" and"rotative movement of a symetrical body around its axis".
What happens whenthe first actual spinning-tops experiments are observed is the fact that theobserver becomes aware that this possible structuring of the experiments hasto be rejected - it obviously does not fit the observed facts - and that a new"reading" of the experiments has to be built: a new category must be created,which ~ in a novel manner, on the one hand the rotational movementand on the other hand the natural tendency of the top to fall, by rendering thesetwo factors causally dependent in the way given in fig.
3.5.
An alternative to the Direct Interpretation Approach.In the remaining space, we would like to point out to another direction thatresearch on Commonsense lnferencing could pursue.
This will be done with thehelp of a "speech analysis metaphor".
This metaphor should really be justifiedby a careful analysis of the inferencing processes that are at work in the modemgenerative approach to linguistics (as exemplified e.g.
in <Kay 1979>), whichspace does not permit to be given here.
Such an analysis would show thatgenerative syntax - although it can indeed be reinterpreted in FOL, in about hesame way as a high-level-language program can be reinterpreted in machine code- really relies on a quite different approach to interpretation than the tarskiantheory/model approach.
Namely, the same linguistic input can be interpreted bydifferent competing , 5 1 1 ~ ~ .
Adding new predeflned structuraldescriptions to the linguistic theory (i.e.
the grammar) will increase the rangeof the accepted linguistie-imputs, whereas adding axioms to a logical "theory ofthe world" decreases the range of accepted situation-inputs.5.1.
A speech-analysis Metaphor for Commonsense Infemncing.The main features of the metaphor are illustrated in fig.
4:s t , 'uc t~e "read"  b~l the hm~lv"( .
- .$~eech  cleat n .- .
')5\ [ ruc t~Q ~r tod"  b~ thin ob le ruet~(' i tuol ion ir~ tht  rea l  ~orli~Jwords ~ , i ,p le  conceptual  eQXegori ,sh igher  leve l  ~t ruetures  0 0 h igher  leve l  conceptua lca tegor iesF igure  4In the metaphor, a parallel is made between:The unanalysed real world, wltich Commonsense "observes" and has to "makesense" of.
I The unanalysed acoustical string, which the linguistic agent(here tile hearer) "observes" and has to "make sense" of.Tile FD (Functional Descriptions <Kay 1979>) of words are the elementary"blocks" out of which the linguistic structures are built / The simpleconceptual categories (e.g.
cat, dance ) are the elementary blocks out ofwhich higher conceptual structures are builLThe higher level FDs (e.g.
those corresponding toVP) are used to build morecomplex linguistic structures.
(There is really only a difference of levelbetween this case and the preceding one.)
/ The higher level conceptualcategor ies (e.g.
the parallel-events category,  thetime-sequence-of-events category (see section 5.3)) are used to buildmore complex conceptual structures.
(Same remark as before.
)The linguistic structure "projecls " onto the sound-chain.
There must besome "fit", bat it need not be perfect: the sound-chain may be nolsy andlacunary / The conceptual s~ructure "projects " onto the observedsituation in the real world.
There must be some "fit", but it need not beperfect: in fact the interpretative fr edom is much more important here then inthe speech-analysis ca e (see section 3.2).5.2 The different dimensions along which categories can be ordered.One can distinguish 4 axes along wich conceptual categories can be orderedinformally:Along file complexity dimension, one can place, from simple to complex,categories representing:"simple objects": achair, an apple"simple vents": to eat"complex objects": apair of shoes, a road network"complex events": a spinning top, a plane flyingAlong tile abstraction dimension, one can place, from concrete to abstract,categories representing:"concrete" categories: an apple, a catmore "abstract" categories: free fall of physical bodies, quantity-conservingpouring"abstract" categories: an oriented graph, causal sequencing of events513Along the productivity dimension, one can place, from fixed to productive,categories representing:fixed categories: John's bicyclemore productive categories: an appleproductive categories: causal sequencing ofeventsThe fourth axis, that of staticity/dynamicity is discussed in next section.5.3 How new categories are formed.The metaphor of section 5.1 between commonsense inferencing and the process oflinguistic interpretation permits to transpose the generative approach of syntax tothe plane of commonsense inferencing (fig.
5):tniUal blsi$ of st;bUt ?~te~or%$ ~ eat 'O?r i '$a: 2-ant.agoni~ct-tendencles e: dPopplngb: naturo l - i~petus- loss  9: ~Pir~lng-~oPc: tlme-s~quenclng-of-eu~nt$ L: john- takes-sp inn ing- top- then-drops- i td: tok i ng-obj ec t -  i n-handsFigure 5In this figure, there appear several types of categories:- i) The categories belonging to the "initial basis of static ategories".They constitute the initial structural "stock" from which new categories are formedby the process of generation.
In fig.
5 a, c, etc.., are the categoriestwo-antagonist-tendencies, t me-sequencing of events, which form thebasis upon which higher categories are built.- ii) The categories belonging to the "extended basis of static ategories".They are obtained through integration and coordination of several already existingstatic categories.
An example that we have already seen is the example of thespinning-top category, which integrates (among others) the structures oftwo-antagonist-tendencies, natural-impetus-loss, and other structnreswhich we have not spoken of, as for instance that of abstract-containment.Static categories, contrarily to dynamic ategories ( ee iii next), correspond toclasses of reproducible phenomena, which, once structured into a conceptualcategory, become of general utility for commonsense processes and therefore needto be memorized permanently.
For instance, once the spinning-top categoryhas been formed to account for the experiences one has had of effectively observedspinning-tops, this category becomes of a general utility to:1) identify a spinning-top henomenon as an instance of the spinning-topcategory.2) infer properties of this phenomenon thanks to the previous identification ofthe category.
These properties are not directly perceivable in the phenomenon,but are described in the structure of the category which has just been identified.In the same way, to take a simpler example, once the static ategory of bicyclehas been identified in a real situation, the perception of a fuzzy spot on thebicycle's front is sufficient o infer immediately the presence of a headlampwhich is not directly perceivable (gestalt-type rocessing).Thus, the stock of already existing static categories serves to give structure tonew categories of phenomena.
We have seen in section 4. that these structuresare, in many cases, necessarily post-experimental and cannot be O_?.d.u.f,g~ apriori.The existence of categories pre-existing tothe experiencing of new phenomenapermits to the active observer to L?C.0ggJ~ in the experience of a phenomenonthe presence of simple or complex categories which are already known by him.514Thus, if the observed phenomenon had been different (for instance if the topbehaved ifferently from what is the actual case), other pre-existing structureswould have come into play: there would be in any case adaptation of themodelization to the observed experience.
The difference with the philosophy ofsection 2 appears clearly here.- iii) The "dynamically produced categories".Dynamic ategories (wbich we have also called "theorizations") differ mainly fromstatic categories in that dynamic ategories only "serve once" to structure anactually present concrete situation which is irreproducible (by definition, for it is"this" situation here and now).
They are therefore created on the spot and are onlytemporary structures.
For instance, the dynamic ategory t of fig.
5 corresponds tothe concrete situation "John takes the spinning-top in his hand then drops it onthe ground": The structuration f this category is partially shown on fig.
5: it is acategory formed by integration of the categories spinning-top,taking-object-in-hands, ropping with (and "under") the productivecategory time-sequencing-of-events (we do not elaborate here on thequestion of what happens to a ~ top when it is taken in hands!
).Space is lacking here for us to give a detailed iscussion of dynamic ategories andof the inferencing processes which manipulate hem,which discussion must be postoned to a later study, but let us just give anotherillustration, related to the example of section 1.3: "John was condemned todeath...".
In this case, the speaker, who is supposed to have been the direct"observer" of the situation, has built a dynamic ategory which represents hisunderstanding of the situation he has observed, and which is an integration of thedynamic ategories "John pushes his wife out of the window", "she falls from the10th floor to the ground", etc.., themselves constituted from static categories:"pushing", "falling", "dying", etc...
Furthermore, it is this dynamic ategory (or apart of it) that he tries to transmit to his listener through an efficient linguisticcoding which is highly elliptical, and it is this dynamic ategory (or a part of it)that ire listener succeeds in reconstructing.The principal feature of the process of formation of new categories, whether staticor dynamic, is that it is not basically a process of dg.O.afdJflll, but a process ofof structures.
This recognition isdone.
on the basis of a set of p.arlia!.informations about the phenomenon, which is what gives it its status of~ .
This is a crucial fact that cannot be detailed here.Let's only give one example: A sufficiently old child will ~ the abstractcategory quantity-conserving-interpouring in an ~ situation wherePeter pours some wine from a bottle into a glass, although the invariancedescribed by the category is not directly observable by her - indeed youngerchildren, who do not yet possess this category, or a more abstract one over whichthis one is built, are not aware of this conservation, see <Piaget 1979>.Conc lus ion .We have tried to demonstrate he difficulties there are to apply a DI (direc tinterpretation) approach to the formalization ofour commonsense understanding oEthe natural world.
From a confrontation with linguistic phenomena and linguisticmethodology, we have advocated a more indirect approach to interpretation.
Workon a formal framework for this approach is currently under way.Disessa, Andrea.
1983.
Phenomenology and the evolution of lntuition ~in (Gentner, D. and Stevens, A.L.)
Mental Models, Lawrence ErlbaumAssociates.Hayes, Patrick J.
1978.
The naive physics Manifesto, ISSCO, Geneva.Hobbs, Jerry.
1984.
On the Coherence and Structure of Discourse, SRIHobbs, Jerry.
and Moore, Bob.
1985.
Formal Theories of theCommonsense World, Ablex, Norwood.Kay, Martin.
1979.
Functional Grammar, Berkeley Linguistics Society.Lakoff, George.
1985.
Women, Fire and Dangerous Things.
WhatCategories Tell Us About The Nature of Thought., University ofChicago Press.Lakoff, George.
and Johnson, Mark.
1980.
Metaphors we live by,University of Chicago Press.Levinson, Stephen.
1983.
Pragmaties, Cambridge University Press.McCloskey, Michael.
1983.
Intuitive Physics, Scientific American, April1983 .Piaget, Jean.
1979.
L'~pist~mologie Gdn#.tique, Presses Universitaires deFrance, Paris.Talmy, Len.
I985.
Force Dynamics in Thought and Language,University of Chicago Linguistics Society.AKNOWLEDGMENTS:The author wishes to thank Len Talmy, Jerry Hobbs,Stan Rosenschein, JaneRobinson, Cbristian Boitet, Bob Moore and Pat Hayes for ideas,discussions and comments.
