A THEORY OF SEMANTIC RELATIONS FOR LARGE SCALE NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSINGHanne RuusUniversity of CopenhagenInstitut for nordisk filologiand Eurotra-DKNjalsgade 80DK-2300 Copenhagen SEbbe Spang-HanssenUniversity of CopenhagenRomansk institutand Eurotra-DKNjalsgade 80DK-2300 Copenhagen SEven a superficial meaning representation ofa text requires a system of semantic labelsthat characterize the relations between thepredicates in the text and their arguments.The semantic interpretation of syntacticsubjects and objects, of prepositions andsubordinate conjunctions has been treated innumerous books and papers with titlesincluding words like DEEP CASES, CASE ROLES,SEMANTIC ROLES and SEMANTIC RELATIONS.However, no generally accepted set of caseroles has emerged from all these investiga-tions and discussions.
A comprehensiveexposition is given by H.L.
Somers (1983).We see one basic problem with most systems ofsemantic cases: the labels are not clearlydifferentiated.
Consequently it is notpossible to use the labels in a consistentway.
We think that the missing differentia-tion has one principal source: many diffe-rent aspects of meaning related to predicatesand their arguments are treated by the samedescription: THE ASSIGNMENT OF CASE ROLES?We propose that at least the followingaspects are kept apart:feature descriptions of arguments:arguments are classified according to + -concrete, + - animate, + - stuff etc.temporal and aspectual features ofpredicates: predicates, notably verbs andadjectives, are classified accordingto + - durative, + - action, + - process,+ - stative.- the semantic relations established by thepredicates.In this paper we concentrate on the semanticrelations established by predicates: whatare they, what are their characteristics, howdo they group the predicates.One example will suffice to show howconfl icting criteria make case labelassignment impossible:Suppose we use some wellknown labels todescribe the following sentence:Peter gave John the letterAGENT RECIPIENT PATIENTYet with that kind of labels we get intotrouble as soon as we want to describe such asimple sentence asPeter took the letter from John?AGENT PATIENT ORIGIN?RECIPIENTObviously,criteria:location:there is a conflict between twocausality: (AGENT PATIENT) and(RECIPIENT (GOAL) ORIGIN)To which of the two criteria should we givethe priority?
It is not so that the causer(agent) is always origin of some objecttrajectory as with 'to give'.
As a matter offact, the predicate 'to give' has always beenused as a model (cf.
the word 'dative').The causer may well cause that objects movenot away from him but towards him, as with'to take'.
In general, we could speak of twodifferent streams or directions, one at thespatial level (the location of objects),ianother at the causa\] level (an influencegoing from one entity towards anotherentity).To ensure the self-consistency of a system weappeal to the following two principles:- we use the mathematical notion of relation:a predicate establishes a relation betweenpairs of units or one unit is related toitself by a predicate,- we use few clearly dist inguished semanticunits.Some units are relators.
They establishrelations between other units.
The relatorsare the predicates, the other units are theirarguments.
When we try to characterize thedifferent kinds of relations, it is importantto keep in mind that the arguments arerelated BY the predicate, not TO it.we base our system of semantic relations onone semantic unit DIRECTEDNESS.
Thedirectedness concerns some object that may beoriented TO and/or FROM some other argument.The directedness may be situated at foursemantical ly different, abstract levels: aninfluential, a locational, a qual i f icational20and a pert inent ia l  one.
At three of theselevels there is an addit ional  non-d i rectedrelat ion?
In the case of non-d i rectednessthe object  is related to another argumentthat is semant ica l ly  marked in the relevantdimension.2o PRESENTATION OF THE SYSTEM2.1o SURVEYThe system we propose looks l ike this:inf luent ia l :  object orig.qual i f icat ional :  object origo goal ref - termlocat iona\] :  object orig.
goal ref - termpert inent ia l :  object orig.
goal ref - termThe arguments of one predicate can havelabels be longing to at most two dimensions:inf luent ia l  and one more dimension.Examples :He brought us a new carinf luent ia l :  orig.
objectiocat ional :  goal objectThe car came from Paris\].ocationa\] : object orig~In qual i f icat ional ,  \].ocational and pert inen-tial, if \[he d imens ion is present, there mustbe at least one argument that is 'object' andat least one argument that has one of thethree other values: origin, goal orref -term.
The d imension has no meaningun\]ess there is an 'object' related to atleant one of the three reference points, ineach of these three d imensions an object maybe s i tuated on a d i rected line, i.e.
withrespect to an or igin or to a goal or to both.Or it may be situated, without any direc--t ional idea, with respect to a referencepo:\[nt that is neither or igin nor goal, andwhich we call just ref-termoShe l ives in Parislocational:  object ref - termRef - term is negat ive ly  def ined as a referencepoint which i s  neither or igin nor goal.
Itmay be character ized posit ively,  however,since a reference point, if it is neitheror ig in nor goal, wil l  normal ly  be somenot iceable object  in proximity.
Thischaracter is t ic  is important when we try toapply the terms origin, goal and ref - term inthe non- locat iona l  dimensions.In inf luential ,  the argument that is or ig incan also be an impl ic i t  object, i.e.
theinf luent ia l  re lat ion may be reflexive: oneargument is related to itself.
Examples:She turned roundinf luent ia l :  orig.She turned the pageinf luential :  orig.
object2.2.
THE D IMENSIONSWe use the d imension ' inf luential '  to expressan inf luence going from an or igin to anobject, as in the example just quoted.
Theconcept of 'origin' at the inf luential  levelis close to the tradit ional  'agent', yetsomewhat wider.
It is not, as the latter,l inked to the concept of action, but ratherto that of causal ity.
In every sentencethere is an 'object' to which somethinghappens, in a much smaller number ofsentences there is an indicat ion of what orwho makes the thing happen.
We need notalways, however, fill out 'object' ofinf luential ,  since it wi l l  be the same as'object' in whatever other d imension ispresent.We use 'qual i f icat ional '  to express relat ionsbetween arguments some of which are notreferent ia l  objects:IIe is a teacherqual i f icat ional :  object ref- termShe became presidentqual i f i cat iona l  : object goalThe arguments that are qua l i f i cat ions  areeasy to d ist inguish from other arguments bythe fact that they cannot be referred to witha pronoun.
They are not independentd iscourse entit ies, but they are attr ibutesof some discourse entity.We use ' locational' ,  as a l ready i l lustrated,to exDress spatial relat ionships,  and alsoobvious metaphor ica\]  uses of space?Finally, we use the d imens ion 'pert inential 'to express more abstract  relations.
We takethe Lat in word 'pertinens' in the meaning'concerning, referr ing to'.
Thus theconst i tut ing idea of this level is just theidea of referr ing or relat ing an object tosome other object.
Def ined in this way,pert inent ia l  can serve us as the unmarkeddimension, i.e.
the d imens ion we can usewhenever  the more narrowly def ined d imensionsdo not suff ice to descr ibe the relat ionsbetween the arguments of some predicate.
Insome cases a pert inent ia l  relat ion may bedirect ional ,  namely when there is aprecedence between the arguments:Peter suffers from pneumoniapert inent ia l :  object: orig.The gun is used for shoot ingpert inent ia l :  object goal21In other cases there is no direction, butsome kind of proximity (belonging-to,similarity or the like):The house belongs to Sarapertinential: object ref-termPeter resembles Napoleonpertinential: object ref-term3.
PROCEDURE FOR ASSIGNING LABELSA.
IS THERE AN ORIGIN OF INFLUENCE?IF THERE IS ONLY ONE ARGUMENT ANDthe meaning of the verb implies that thisargument is origin of a directed stream ofenergy, then assign the label 'origin ofinfluence', else assign the labels 'object ofinfluence':a.
He worksinf.
: orig.b.
The egg boilsinf.
: obj.IF THERE IS MORE THAN ONE ARGUMENT ANDthere is an influence relation such that oneargument is directed towards another, thenassign to the former the label 'origin', andto the latter the label 'object':c. He boils the egginf.
: orig.
objectd.
She will soon come to Copenhagen(no assignments)e. They send her to Copenhageninf.
: orig.
objectf.
He uses the gun for shootinginf.
: orig.
objectg.
We have no money(no assignments)h. He called him a foolinf.
: orig.
objectB.
IS THERE A QUALIFICATIONAL DIMENSION?if there are arguments that are notreferential (i.e.
they cannot be referred towith a pronoun), then assign the appropriatequalif icational labels:h. He called him a foolqual.
: ref-termC.
IF THERE IS NO QUALIFICATIONAL DIMENSION,THEN IF THERE IS A LOCATIONAL DIMENSION,assign the adequate locational labels:d. She will soon come to Copenhagenlocat.
: object goale.
They send her to Copenhagenlocat.
: object goalf.
He uses the gun for shooting(no assignments)g. We have no money(no assignments)D. IF THERE IS NO QUALIFICATIONAL DIMENSION,AND IF THERE IS NO LOCATIONAL DIMENSION,AND IF NOT ALL ARGUMENTS HAVE GOTINFLUENTIAL LABELS, THENassign the adequate pertinential labels toarguments that are not origin of influence:f. He uses the gun for shootingpert.
: object goalg.
We have no moneypert.
: ref-term objectIn order to save space, we have not indicatedall the cases in which assignments will nottake place with the given examples.The proposed system has been tested on thefollowing material:examples of verbs from the different verbclasses of tradition such as communicationverbs, mental verbs etc.all Danish and French verbs that havedifferent surface syntactic complementrealisations.- all Danish verbs and verbal nouns in atext on Information Technology.References:Anderson, John M. 1977: On Case Grammer.Prolegomena to a Theory of GrammaticalRelations?
Croom Helm, London.Jackendoff, Ray 1976: "Toward an ExplanatorySemantic Representation" in LinguisticInquiry, vol.
7 (i), pp.
89-150.
MITPress, Cambridge, Mass.Ruus, Hanne and Ebbe Spang-Hanssen 1982:Argument Relations and Predicate Types forEUROTRA.
Report ET-10-DK for EEC, DGXIIIB.Somers, H.L.
1983: An Investigation intothe Application of the Linguistic Theories ofValency and Case to the Automated Processingof Natural Language, CCL-UMIST Rep. No.83-9; will be published as: Valency and Casein Computational Linguistics.
EdinburghUniversity Press, Edinburgh 1986.22
