A Prototype  Eng l i sh - Japanese  Mach ine  Trans la t ion  Systemfor  T rans la t ing  IBM Computer  Manua lsTaiJiro TsutsumiNatural Language ProcessingScience Institute, IBM Japan, Ltd.5-19, Sanban-cho, Chlyoda-kuTokyo 102, JapanABSTRACTThis paper describes a prototype English-Japanesemachine translation (MT) system developed at the Sci-ence Institute of IBM Japan, Ltd.
This MT system cur-rently aims at the translation of IBM computer manuals.It is based on a transfer approach in which the transferphase is divided into two sub-phases: English transfor-mation and Engllsh-Japanese conversion.
An outline ofthe system and a detailed description of theEnglish-Japanese transfer method are presented.I.
IntroductionThe Science Institute of IBM Japan, Ltd. has beeninvolved in Engllsh-Japanese machine translation forfour years (I).
We have developed a prototype capableof translating IBM computer manuals into Japanese.This system is based on a transfer approach in which thetransfer process consists of English transformation andEnglish-Japanese conversion.
This MT system aims at I)high-quality translation; 2) an easily maintainedtransfer component; and 3) a smaller English-Japaneseterminology dictionary.
The transformation rules andthe conversion rules are presently being constrBctedthrough tests using the IBM manual "VM/SP GeneralInformation" (60P).We are focusing on translation of IBM computer manu-als for 3 reasons: I) high-quality translation isexpected in a limited area; 2) English IBM manuals arepresumably written as clearly as possible according toan IBM internal standard; 3) we already had a practicalEngllsh-Japanese terminology dictionary for humantranslators.Most MT systems developed in Europe and the U.S.deal with language pairs in the Indo-European languagegroup (2).
In the case of English-Japanese translation,since both languages are categorized in different lan-guage groups, a more powerful linguistic mechanism mustbe implemented.
For instance, word order and sentencestyle are different and moreover an English word some-times corresponds to more than one Japanese equivalent.To overcome these difficulties, an English-Japanese orJapanese-English MT system might he based on a transferor interlingua approach with a wide range oftree-transduclng Capabilities and a semantic processingmechanism.2.
Overview of the s ~Fig.
i shows the overall translation process.
First ofall, an English sentence is syntactically analysed inthe English analysis phase.
The output of this analy-sis is one or more English parse trees.
Second, in theEngllsh-Japanese transfer phase, an English parse tree,or an English intermediate representation, is trans-ferred to a corresponding Japanese tree, or a Japaneseintermediate representation.
During this transfer, anEnglish parse tree is at first transformed by thetransformation component to an English tree inJapanese-like style, and this result is converted to aJapanese tree by the English-Japanese conversion compo-nent.646An English SentenceII English Analysis \]IEnglish Intermediate Representation<English Analysis Tree(s)>IEnglish-Japanese Transfer\[ English Transformation \]English-Japanese Conversion\]IJapanese Intermediate Representation<A Japanese tree>fJ apanese  Sentence(s )F ig.
1.
Overa l l  t rans la t ion  processF ina l ly ,  in  the  Japanese  generat ion  phase,  one or  moreJapanese  sentences  are  produced by operat ions  such asgenerating Japanese auxiliary verbs, determiningJapanese case particles, and rearranging word order.At present, the components shown in Fig.
1 are allimplemented in LISP.3.
English AnalysisFor analysing English, we are making use of the Englishparser, the English analysis grammar, and the Englishanalysis dictionary developed by G. Heidorn et el.
atthe IBM T.J. Watson Research Canter (3).
The Englishanalysis is based on an augmented phrase structuregrammar and is syntactically performed in a bottom-upand parallel manner.
This English analysis aims atarea-independent, high-performance and fail-soft anal-ysis.
The area-independent feature means portability ofthis analysis component to other application areas.
Thefail-soft feature is important for a practical MT sys-tem which should provide some Japanese segments for ahuman translator even if the parser fails to analyzethe input sentence as a complete sentence.As the syntactic analysis of English sometimesproduces more than one parse tree, the English parsercomputes metric values which indicate plausibility ofthe parse trees based on the characteristics of themodifications between phrases (4).
When more than oneparse tree is obtained by analysis, semantically incor-rect parse trees are discarded during theEngllsh-Japanese transfer.
If more than one Japanesetree remains after the transfer, the metric valuescopied from these English parse trees to correspondingJapanese trees are used to rank these Japanese trees interms of plausibility.
The Japanese tree which has theleast value~ namely the most plausible one, is chosenby the MT system.4: .
_~1_  I s h -~:{t~les  e T rans ferGEnerally, tlm transfer process of u transfer approachinclud:lng semantic processing tends to become compli-cated and then difficult to maintain.
But a transferapproach seems to be the most straightforward forimplementing human translators ' knowledge whichincludes various types of linguistic information suchas specific words, syntactic structures, and semanticinformation.ThErE are many Engllsh..proper expressions, such as'It-that', tree-to', and 'there-be'.
Their sty\]as arevery different :from Japanese ones and flare no simplecontrast explessions in , JapanesE.
The EnglJ.sh-Japanesetransfer component of our system is divided into twoseparate components: an English transformation compo-nent and an English-Japanese conversion component.
Weca\]\].
our apploach a two-pass transfer method.
By usingEnglish transformation rules, the English transforma-tion component rewrites an English parse tree andproduces a new style of Eugl:ish tree which is close toJapanese syntax.
This can then Easily be converted to acorresponding Japanese tree.
When we expect dJfferentEnglish Expressions t:o be translated to the sameJapanese expcession, we only have to write Englislltransformation rules instead of E~.,\] transfer rules of aconventional transfer approach.
Moreover, when we havea MT SyStEm change a Japanese expression, we arerEquirEd only to modify some E-J conversion rulesinstead of modifying a larger number of relating E-Jtransfer ru\].es.
Consequently, ,:he two-pass transfermethod provides us with modularlty and maintainabilityDf the transfer component.4.1EnnKllsh TransformationEnglish transformation is performed by using English?
transformation rules and a transformation dictionary.The transformation sometimes requires a derivative formof an English word, such as a verbal form of a noun andan adverbial form of an adjective.
The transformationdictionary contains this sort of derlvational data.The transformation rules are categorized into groupsaccording to syntactic categories of nodes of parsetrees.
Each group is also classified into severalsub-groups.
For example, the rule group for a sentenceconsists of 22 sub-groups, such as an inverslon-rulesub-group, an insertion-rule sub-group, and anellipsis-rule sub-group.
The following are examples ofapplications of the rules to sentences.It is required that you specify the assignment.-> That you specify the assignment is required.There are several records in the file.-> Several records exist in the file.System operation is so impaired that the IPLprocedure has to be repeated.-> Because system operation is very impaired,the IPL procedure has to be repeated.The routine has a relatively low usage rate.-> Usage rate of the tontine is relatively low.The following are examples of applications of the rulesto noun phrases.execution of the program-> executing the programa disk available with .
.
.-> a disk which is available with ...\]'he transformation is performed in a top-down manneralong an English parse tree.
At each node of a tree, acorresponding rule group is retrieved according to thesyntact:ic type of tile :node and th:Is ru \ ]e  group isapp\].Jed to the sub-tree only once.
In this applicationof the rule group, each sub-group is sequentiallyapplied to the sub-tree only once.
If a matcI~ing pat-tern of a transformation rule matches the sub-.tree anda target pattern produces a new tree, the rest of therules :in tile sub-group are no longer used ~qnd process-ing of tile next sub-group begins.
We have dEsignEd therulE groups  and the i r  sub-groups  to  avo id  backt rack ingand repetitive application of the same rule..A transformed Eng\].isil tree is convarted to a corre ~spoudiug JapanEse tree by us:lug conversion rn\]es and aconversion dictionary.
The functions of this processare \]) determining appropriate Japanese syntax, equiv-alents, and additional linguistic data such as tense,aspect, modality, and vOiCE; and 2)d:isambiguating mod-i f i ca t ions  of English phrases.Technique/TheoryFeature/AbilityInformationAttributeValue of ATHumanUnlt/Device ._One of tim basic approaches to semantic processing ;inMT is to use semantic markers of nouns.
We have defined24 sEmantic markErs specific to computer manuals, whichwi\]\] be Effective in tratlslating IBM computer manuals.Table 1 lists ail.\], of tI, e semantic markers and theirmeanings.Markors~.
Meanings M~rkers - -~!
MeaningsLC ~Logica l  Container WK \[Work/ActionI,E |Log ica l  Entry PS \]PredicateLP |Log ica l  Path AP Attribute of PSDM |Document SL SupplyST |S ta te  PT PartTH DT \[Term of documentsFA ML MaterialIF TM TimeAT PI, PlaceVA PN Person's NameHM PO \]PointOrganization UD ... OG \[ .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.Table I. Semantic markersNouns in computer manuals have one or more semanticmarkers.
For example, "file" has "LC" and "LE", "pro-gram" has "LE", and "operator" has "LE" and "}{M".
Thisset of markers is so slmple that maintenance is easy.4.2.2.
E-J Conversion Dictionar\[~In the English-Japanese conversion dictionary, condi-tions for conversion are described by a combination ofEnglish syntax, semantic markers and sometimes specificJapanese words.
The conversion dictionary is dividedinto sub-dictlonaries, such as a verb-dlctionary, anoun-dictionary, and a prepositional-dictionary.
Fig.2 shows an example of an entry of the verb-dlctlonary inthe case of "provide".
( "provide"((SB (S ((LE UD) Y1 "ga")))(DO (S ((FA AT) YI "we")))(P "sonae" PYI (V SHIHOI NIL JY00TAI TRANS)))( (SB  (S ((DM ~ UD) Y1 "ga" ) ) )(1)0 (S ((BM) Y1 "ni")))("witb" (S ((IF FA AT) Y1 "we")))(P "teikyo" PYI (V SAHEN NIL KEIZOKU TRANS))) )Fig.
2.
An example of an English-Japaneseconversion dJctlonary entry one type  o f  .
.
.
-> one- type-o f  .
.
.647The upper half of the description in Fig.
2 specifiesthat if the subject of a sentence has semantic marker"LE" or "UD" and the first object has marker "FA" or"AT", then choose the Japanese case particle "ga" forthe first Japanese noun phrase, the Japanese case par-ticle "wo" for the second one, and the Japanese verb"sonae" as the proper equivalent for the English verb"provide".
"YI" and "PYI" in Fig.
2 specify types ofcorresponding Japanese sub-trees to be generated.
Thelower half of the description gives a similar rule tothe previous one except for an additional condition ona prepositional phrase.
This part specifies that ifthe conditions are met, then use Japanese case parti-cles "ga", "hi", and "wo" in this order and select"teikyo" as the appropriate Japanese verb.The verb-dictionary is used to convert an Englishsurface case structure into a Japanese one directly bydepending upon the semantic markers.
This conversionmust be more efficient than in the case where deep casesare introduced so as to pursue similar semantic proc-essing.
This conversion determines an appropriateJapanese verb, Japanese case particles, and Japanesesyntax of a simple sentence at the same time.
In somecases, an appropriate Japanese equivalent for an Eng-lish noun phrase is successfully selected based onthese conditions when the English noun phrase has morethan one Japanese equivalent.
Moreover, application ofthese entries also means a semantic check of the inputfrom the computer area's point of view.
Consequently,if there is no entry applicable to the input simple sen-tence, it is deemed inappropriate for computer manualsand is rejected by the system.
This contributes todisambiguation of English analysis trees.Additional linguistic data of an English simple sen-tence concerning tense, aspect, modality, and voice,are also converted to corresponding data of a Japanesetree by using a contrast conversion table and the con-version dictionary.
For example, voice and aspect ofan English sentence are changed in a Japanese sentenceaccording to the characteristic of the verb.4.2.3.
E-J Translation of Simple Noun PhrasesOne of the issues in MT is how to create and maintain alarge terminology dictionary.
Generally, a technicaldocument includes a number of technical noun groups.We call a noun phrase which basically has no post modi-fier a simple noun phrase (SNP), such as "a procedurelibrary", "system-to-operator communication", "IBMsupplied licensed and nonlicensed programs" and "page34".Our MT system facilitates a component for translat-ing SNPs.
Even if the terminology dictionary does nothave the entry in whole, a long SNP which is composed ofmany words is successfully translated by appropriatelyassembling the dictionary data of all elements of theSNP.
This is mainly due to the similarity of syntax ofSNPs between English and Japanese.The functions of the SNP translation component areto choose appropriate Japanese equivalents for variousparts-of-~peech(e.g, noun, adjective, adverb); toinsert "no" between noun phrases; to reorder Japaneseequivalents; to process conjunctions within a simplenoun phrase; and to handle hyphenated words.
These areachieved by using a special dictionary for translatingSNPs and co-occurrence frequency data of words orsemantic markers in IBM computer manuals.4.3 E-J Conversion ProcessThe English-Japanese conversion component subsequently648converts a transformed English tree to a Japanese treein a bottom-up and parallel manner along the Englishtree.First of all, the English-Japanese conversion dic-tionary is searched for all English words which areterminal symbols of the English parse tree.
This ispart of Engllsh-Japanese conversion of the lowest levelsub-trees of the English tree.
An upper level Englishsub-tree is converted to a corresponding Japanesesub-tree by using the English-Japanese conversion rulesand by using the English-Japanese conversion results ofthe current level English sub-trees.
The category ofthe top node of the upper sub-tree determines which setof Engllsh-Japanese conversion rules is to be applied.During the conversion of sub-trees, semantic processingis performed according to the data in theEnglish-Japanese conversion dictionary as mentionedearlier.5.
Japanese GenerationThe Japanese generation component produces one or moreJapanese sentences from a Japanese tree which conveysJapanese syntax, Japanese equivalents, and other infor-mation.The functions of this component are to generateJapanese auxiliary verbs; to determine appropriateJapanese equivalents of adverbs, negation, determinersand conjunctions including subordinate conjunctions; toposition Japanese adverbial phrases in a Japanese sen-tence; to modify Japanese case particles; to reorderJapanese noun phrases; to insert punctuations; and toerase a duplicate Japanese subject.
Japanese auxiliaryverbs are generated based on Japanese verb information,such as the original form of the verb, the conjugationtype of the verb, tense, aspect, voice, and modallty.6.
ConclusionWe have described a prototype Engllsh-Japanese machinetranslation system based on a two-pass transferapproach.
Introduction of separate English transforma-tion in the E-J transfer makes the transfer componenteasy to maintain.We have proposed a set of semantic markers specificto computer manuals and the Engllsh-Japanese conversiondictionary so as to perform hlgh-quality translation.The mechanism of selecting appropriate Japanese equiv-alents and syntax is simple and effective.
We will con-tinue to enhance our MT system to translate many kindsof IBM computer manuals into high-quality Japanese.7.
Referencesi.
Tsutsumi, T. "On the Machine Translation from Eng-lish to Japanese" in Tokyo Scientific Center ReportN:G318-1571 (1982)2.
Slocum, J, "A Survey of Machine Translation: itsHistory, Current Status, and Future Prospects" inAJCL Ii-i (1985)3.
Heldorn, 8.
E., K. Jensen, L.A. Miller, R.J. Byrd,and M.S.
Chodorow.
"The EPISTLE Text-CritiquingSystem" in IBM Sys.
J.
21.3 (1982), 305-326.4.
Heidorn, G.E.
"Experience with an Easily ComputedMetric for Ranking Alternative Parses" in Proc.20th Annual Meeting of the ACL.
Tronto, Canada(1982), 82-84.
