Co l la t ive  Semant icsDan FassComputing Research LaboratoryNew Mexico State UniversityLas Cruces, NM, USA 88003O.
Abst rac tThis paper introduces Collativc Semantics (CS), a newdomain-independent semantics for n~tural anguage processing(NLP) which addresses the problems of lexieal ambiguity, met(>nymy, various semantic relations (conventional relations,redundant relations, contradictory relations, metaphorical rela-tions and severely anomalous relations) aud the introduction ofnew information.
We explain the two techniques CS uses formatching together knowledge structures (KSs) and why seman-tic vectors, which record the results of such matches, arc infor-mative enough to tell apart semantic relations and be tile basisfor lcxical disa.mbiguation.1.
In t roduct ionCollative Semantics is a new domain-independent sem,~n-tics for NI,P.
This paper foeusses on CS, describing tile mainissues it addresses (lexical ambiguity, mctonymy, semantic rela-tions, introduction of new information) and general details ofits knowledge representation, knowledge structures, techniquesfor matching together knowledge structures, and the way itrecords the results of matching in semantic vectors.CS has l)een implemented in a natural language programeaiicd recta5 which has been described in detail clsewherc (Fass,1986).
Briefly, the program produces semantic representationsof single sentences requiring lexical disambiguation and met(>nymic infereneing.
While processing such sentences recta5 com-putes semantic vectors for the matches between pairs of word-senses which are rich enough to discriminate between instancesof conventional relations, semantically redundant relations, con-tradictory relations, metaphoricM relations and severelyanomalous relations between word-sense pairs.
Semantic vectorsalso record the assertion of new information.
Meta5 can processall the example sentences given in the next section.2.
Semant ic  Re la t ions ,  Nove l  In fo rmat ion  and Meto-nymyIn this section we provide brief descriptions of thosesemantic phcnomcna considered by CS, except lexicalambiguity, starting with semantic relations.
Conventional,metaphorical and severely anomalous relations can all bedescribed using the terminology of Richards (1936).
The subjectterm is the "topic," the term it is compared to is the "vehicle,"the similarity or resemblance between them is the "ground,"and any difference or dissimilarity is tile "tension."
We alsoadopt Perrine's (1971) four-fold classification of metaphors intocombinations of explicit and implicit topics and vehicles.In a metaphorical relation there is tension between thetopic and vehicle because the topic term is not a type of vehicleterm.
What is salient (Ortony, 1979) is given by the context, asalient property of the vehicle is found and an analogical matchdiscovered between it and u property from the topic.
Theremaining properties of the topic and vehicle have similaritiesand differences and, although these are not central to recognis-ing the metaphorical relation, the higher the proportion ofdifferences to similarities the "better" the metaphor.For example, in the metaphorical relation between 'cal"and 'drink' ill(1) "The car drank gasoline.
"the topic is 'ear' and the implicit vehicle is 'animal', the agentpreference Wilks, 1975) of 'drink'.
The tension is caused by acar (the topic) not being a type of animal (the vehicle).
What issalient in tiffs context is the action of drinking, given by themain sentence verb.
The salient property of the vehicle is onereferring to the salient action, i.e.
that an animal dl'inks pot-able liquids.
An analogical match is found between tile salientproperty of the vehicle and a property of the topic : animalsdrink potable liquids as cars use gasoline.
The ground is theexpending of liquid.
Matching the remaining properties of thetopic and vehicle, some pairs of properties are the same(animals and ears are both bounded, three-dimensional ndsolid) but other pairs express differences (animals are living,cars are nonliving; animals are composed of flesh, cars are madeof metal).Ill a conventional rclation there is no tension because thetopic term is a type of vehicle term.
The sMient property of tilevehicle matches identically with a property from tile topic..There is a high proportion of similarities to differences amongstmatches of other pairs of properties of the topic and vehicle.For example, ill the conventional relation between 'man'and 'drink' in(2) "The mall drank beer.
"the topic is 'man'  and the implicit vehicle is again 'animal', thepreferred agent of 'drink'.
A man (the topic) is type of animal(the vehicle).
What  is salient is drinking so the salient propertyof animals is again that they drink potable liquids.
An identicalmatch is found between animals drinking potable liquids andmen drinking potable liquids.
Of the remaining properties ofanimal and man matched together, a large proportion are simi-lar and very few are different.A severely anomalon~'~ relation has the same tensionbetween topic and vehicle a~ a metaphorical relation : the topicterm is not a type of vehicle term.
A salient property is foundin the vehicle but it does not find an identical or analogical.match with any property from the topic.
A high proportion ofthe remaining properties of the topic and vehicle matchedtogether are different and few are the same.Our description of semantically redundant and contradic-tory relations is based on Katz's (1964) definitions.
Whether theassertion of a particular property onto a subject term is aredundant relation, contradictory relation or new information isa function of tile knowledge already in the term's dictionaryentry.A contradictory relation is one in which a modifier assertsa property onto a subject term which is incompatible with aproperty already in the subject term, e.g.
(3) "John McEnroe is female.
"where the assertion \[sexl, femalel I from the adjective clashes341with the property \[sexl, malel\] already in the dictionary entryfor John McEnroe.A semantically redundant relation is one in which amodifier asserts a property onto a subject term which is identi-cal to a property already in that term, e.g.
(4) "John McEnroe is male.
"is redundant if the dictionary entry for John McEnroe alreadycontains \[sex1, male1\], the same as the property asserted by theadjective.If for sentence (4), the dictionary entry of John MeEnroedoes not previously contain \[sex\], male1\], then the propertyasserted by the adjective is recognised as new information.Metonymy is a figure of speech in which the name of onething is substituted for that of another related to it (Lakoff ~:Johnson, 1980), for example artist for artform as in(5) "John played Bach.
"( - -  the music of Bach) and(6) "Ted reads Steinbeck.
"(~  the writings of Steinbeck).
Other types of metonymyinclude container for contained as in(7) "Mary drank the bottle.
"(~  the liquid in the bottle), and co-agent for activity in(8) "Lcndl played Wilunder.
"(~  tennis with Wilunder), and part for whole (also known assynechdoche).3.
Knowledge  Representat ion  and  Knowledge  St ruc -tu resThe knowledge representatiou (KR.)
of Collative Semanticsis a hierarchically structured semantic network with word-senses as the nodes.
Every node is also a sense-frame, the KS ofCollative Semantics, so-called because sense-frames are frame-like structures representing individual word-senses.
Thisarrangement of a semantic network with frame-like structuresas nodes is common to many frame- and scmantic network-based systems (e.g.
Bobrow ~ Winograd, 1977; Roberts 2zGoldstein, 1977; Brachman, 1979; IIirst, 1983).In developing our set of arc labels we have taken note ofresearch at the epistemological level of semantic networks(Brachman, 1979) so, for example, we distinguish between'superinstance' which denotes membership of ~n individualwithin a class of individuals from 'supertypc' which denotesmembership of a class of individuals by a class of individuals.Much like Quillian's (1968) planes, sense-frames are com-posed of other word-senses which have their own sense-fl'ames.There are no semantic primitives in the sense of Schank's(1973) Conceptual Dependency or Wilks' (1975) PreferenceSemantics.
In CS word-senses perform the function of semanticprimitives.
They are used to capture broad gcneralisationsamong groups of words or word-senses; to represent the mean-ings of individual word-senses; to represent the underlyingmeaning of sentences and their parts; to support lexical disam-biguation; to support inferencing of various kinds; and to sup-port the discrimination of semantic relations.In the next section we explain how semantic primitives arcused in Preference Semantics to do lexical disambiguation andhow word-scnses arc used in CS to do the same.4.
Techniques for Matching Together KnowledgeStructuresSection 4 explains the two techniques used for matchingtogether KSs in CS : computing a graph relation and cell-342matching.Computing a graph relation is developed from Wilks'(1975) technique for computing satisfied and violated prefer-ences in the Preference Semantics System.
The 80-100 semanticprimitives are organised into a directed graph (see Wilks 1977,Appendix A for details) in which they appear as nodes.
Thearcs are unlabelled but appear to denote set inclusion, e.g.MAN, the class of human beings, belongs to *ANI, the class ofanimate entities.
A path searching algorithm operates over tiledirected graph.
Its source and destination odes are two seman-tic primitives.
Satisfied preferences are paths describing setinclusion; violated preferences are paths describing set exclu-sion.Computing a graph relation is a path search algorithmwhich operates over CS's hierarchically structured semanticnetwork.
Its source and destination odes are two word-sensesin that network.
Five kinds of path (or graph relation) aresought between those nodes.
Two of the paths describe types ofset inclusion and hence are the equivalent of a path for asatisfied preference.
The remaining three kinds of path areequivalent o a violated preference and describe types of setexclusion.Computing satisfied and violated preferences i the basicmechanism for doing lexical disambiguation in PreferenceSemantics.
Collativc Semantics has at least ~he disambiguationpower of Preference Semantics because computing a graph rela-tion produces paths describing set inclusion and exclusion overdirected graphs with practically the same hierarchical organisa-tion, but whereas the nodes in Wilks' digraph are a restrictedset of semantic primitives, the nodes in CS's digraph are anunrestricted set of word-senses.The result of computing a graph relation is recorded in afive-column graph  re lat ion array where each columncorresponds to one of the five kinds of set inclusion or exclu-sion.
An initialised array contains all zeroes.
If computing agraph relation is used and a particular path is found then a 1 isadded to the appropriate column of the array.
This is a verydifferent way of recording the result of a path search fromPreference Semantics (the importance of recording results isconsidered in the next section).The second matching technique in CS, cell matching, is utype of multiple comparison algorithm for matching togetherKSs.
A multiple comparison algorit\]am is a technique used tomatch together the elements from two sets (often within twoKSs) by isolating a pair of elements from the two sets andmatching those elements together in some way.Theories of metaphor in linguistics and psychology whichcompare two terms in a metaphorical relation presuppose somekind of multiple comparison between their elements.
Those ele-ments have been termed "features," properties" and "attri-butes" (amongst others) and usually have been containedwithin KSs, normally some type of frame.
For example inlinguistic semantics, Levin (1977) attempts to discriminatemetaphors from other semantic relations by matching togethersets of semantic features and in psychology, Ortony (1979)discusses metaphor as matches between attributes within twoschemata.
Different kinds of match between elements are con-sidered important.
Ortony differentiates "identical" matches ofattributes from "similar" matches based on some "structuralisomorphism" between the knowledge associated with the twoattributes.
Similar matches are seen as especially important ometaphor.Cell matching takes as input two lists of elements calledcells.
A pair of cells are isolated from the two lists using a setof structural constraints and matched together.
As cells arecomposed of word-senses, CS's first matching technique, corn-put inga  graph relation, can be used to match cells together.Five different kinds of match are tried between cells,corresponding to the two types of set inclusion and three typesof set exclusion.
These include, to use Ortony's terms, identicaland similar matches.The results of cell matching are recorded in a sevencolumn cel l -match array, where each column correspond to adifferent kind of cell relat ion.
The first five columnscorrespond to the five types of set inclusion and exclusion.Some cells from the two lists fail the structural constraints andcannot be matched at all.
The last two columns record suchcases.
An initialised cell-match array contains all zeroes.
Whenmatching two lists of cells together, each occurrence of a cellrelation between pail's of cells adds 1 to the appropriate columnof the array until all cells have been accountad for.
A cell-match array, then, records the complete match of two lists ofcells.5.
Record ing  the  Results  of  Match ing  TogetherKnowledge  St ructuresSection 5 explains how the results of matching togethersense-frames u ing computing a graph relation and cell match-ing are recorded in semantic vcctors.
Semantic vectors arcinformative enough to tell apart semantic relations betweenword-senses and 1)e the basis for lcxical disambiguation.In other approaches to lcxical disambiguation their recordof the results of matching together KSz cannot be uscd to ade-quately discriminate semantic relations.
In Preference Seman-tics, the record of the result of the path search algorithm isbinary : either a satisfied or violated preference.
A binarychoice is inadequate because a single satisfied preference couldbe a literal, redundant, contradictory or contrary semantic rela-tion and a single violated prcference could be a metaphorical orseverely anomalous one (see Fuss ~ Wilks, 1983).
The same cri-ticism can bc made of marker passing (e.g.
Quillian, 1968;Charniak, 1981; Iiirst, 1983), in which lexical disambiguation isdone by an intersection search algorithm which finds the shor-test path between two nodes in a directed graph.
The record isa single path, but a single path cannot be used for discriminat-ing among semantic relations.
And in numerical weightingschemes (e.g.
Waltz & Pollack, 1985) which "takes place on ,~weighted network of associations, where 'activation energy' isdistributed over tile network based on some mathematicalfunction of the strength of connections" (Ibid, p.54), thenumerical weights on nodes and edges cannot be used to distin-guish semantic relations.Semantic vectors are informative nough to be the basisfor lexical disambiguation and tell apart semantic relationsbetween word-senses because they contain graph relation arraysand cell match arrays.Graph relation arrays are used heavily for lexical disambi-guation because a graph relation array records two types of setinclusion, equivalent to a satisfied preference in PreferenceSemantics, and three types of set exclusion, equivalent o aviolated preference.
It can bc used for lexieal disambiguationjust as Preference Semantics uses satisfied and violated prefer-ences .Cell match arrays record the multiple comparison of ele-ments in two KSs in terms of seven different kinds of match.
Asemantic vector usually contains two or more of these arrays.Cell match arrays can be used for differentiating semantic rela-tions because each relation produces a distinctive pattern ofnnmbers in the columns of the arrays.
See (Fuss, 1986) forexamples.6.
SummaryThe knowledge representation and knowledge structureCollative Semantics is similar to that of many existing frame-or semantic-network based systems.
What makes CS differentand able to address the issues it does (le?ical ambiguity, meto-nymy, semantic relations, introduction of new information) isthe techniques it uses for matching together knowledge struc-tures and the recording of those matches into semantic vectors.7.
B ib l iographyBobrow, D., & Winograd, T. (1977) "An Overview of KRL, AKnowledge Representation Language."
Cogni t ive  Sci~enee, 1, pp.
3-46.Braehman, R.J. (1979) "On The Epistcmological Status ofSemantic Networks."
In N.V. Findler (Ed.)
Associat iveNetworks  : Representat ion  and Use of  KnowledgeBy Computers ,  New York : Academic Press, pp.
3-50.Charniak, E. (1981) "Passing Markers : A Theory of Contex-tual Influence in Language Comprehension."
TechnicalReport CS.-80, Dept.
of Computer Science, Brown Univ.,Providence, Rhode Island.Fuss, D.C. (1986) "Collative Semantics : A Description of theMeta5 Program."
Memorandum MCCS-86-23, ComputingResearch Lab., New Mexico State Univ., New Mexico.Fass, D.C. & Wilks, Y.A.
(1983) "Preference Semantics, Ill-Formedness and Metaphor."
Amer ican  Journa l  ofComputat iona l  ISingnistics, 9, pp.
178-187.Hirst, Graeme (1983) "Semantic Interpretation against Ambi-guity."
Technical Report CS-83-25, Dept.
of ComputerScience, Brown University.Katz, J.,l.
(1964) "Analyticity and Contradiction in Natur.~lLanguage."
In J.A.
I"odor ~ J.J. Katz (Eds.)
The  Struc-tu re  o f  Language : P~eadings in the  Ph i losophy  ofLanguage,  Englewood Cliffs, N.J. : Prentice IIall.Lakoff, (\]., & Johnson, M. (1980) Metaphors  We Live By,London : Chicago University Press.Levis, S.R.
(1977) The  Semant ics  of  Metaphor ,  Baltimore :John Ilopkins University Press.Ortony, A.
(1979) "Beyond Literal Similarity."
Psychologica lReview, 86, pp.
161-180.Perriue, L. (1971) "Psychological Forms of Metaphor."
Col legeEngl ish, 33, pp.
125-138.Quillian, M.R.
(1968) "Semantic Memory."
In M. Minsky (Ed.
)Semant ic  In fo rmat ion  Process ing,  Cambridge, Mass :MIT Press, pp.
2\]6-270.Richards, I.A.
(1936) The  Ph i losophy of  Rhetor ic ,  London :Oxford University Press.Roberts, B.R., & Goldstein, I.P.
(1977) "The FRL Manual,"MIT AI Memo 409.Schank, R.C.
(1973) "Identification of ConceptualizationsUnderlying Natural Language."
In R.C.
Schank & K.M.Colby (Eds.)
Computer  Models  of  Thought  andLanguage, San Franscisco : W.Il.
Freeman, pp.
187-247.Waltz, D.L., & Pollack, J.B. (1985) "Massively Parallel Parsing: A Strongly Interactive Model of Natural languageInterpretation."
Cogni t ive  Science, 9, pp.
51-74.Wilks, Y.A.
(1975) "A Preferential Pattern-Seeking Semanticsfor Natural Language Inference."
Art i f ic ial  Intell i-gence, 6, pp.
53-74.Wilks, Y.A.
(1977) "Good and Bad Arguments about SemanticPrimitives."
Communicat ion  and Cognit ion,  10, pp.181-221.343
