Q&A: A l ready a Success?Gary G. HendrixSymantec CorporationCupertino, CA 95014 USAWhen Prof. Wolfgang Wahlster (the organizerof this COLING-86 panel on "Natural LanguageInterfaces: Ready for Commercial Success?
")sent out invitations to panelists, he statedthat his goals were "to evaluate threenatural language interfaces which wereintroduced to the commercial market in 1985and to relate them to current research incomputational linguistics."
For comparison,he has asked each of us panelists to answer astandard set of questions.
These I willanswer, but first let me set the stage byanswering two logically prior queries.00) What is your  commercia l  system?Our system, called Q&A, was introduced bySymantec in September of 1985.
Q&A is anintegrated package for the IBM PC/XT/AT andcompatibles.
Its major modules are a filemanagement system, a report generator, a wordprocessor (which was used to compose thisdocument), a spelling checker and "theintelligent assistant" or "IA."
The IA letsusers manipulate databases and producereports by issuing commands in English.Note that Q&A is NOT sold as a naturallanguage interface per se, but as anintegrated business-productivity tool.0) Why did you give your natural  languagesubsystem such a pompous name?Our marketing department made me do it.The Wahls ter  Quest ionsi) How successfu l  is your commercial  system?How many copies have been sold?
Q&A's monthlysales are measured in thousands.
SoftSel,the major US distributor of software formicrocomputers, publishes a "hot list" everytwo weeks ranking its best selling products.Q&A has been in the top i0 since February ofthis year, and has been as high as number 2.At the time of this writing, it is number 3,below only dBASE III and Lotus 123.Are they being used on a regular basis?Hundreds of people use Q&A every day, andthousands use it frequently.
Although wehave not conducted a rigorous survey, strawpolls indicate that about half the active Q&Ausers use the IA on a regular basis.
(Manypeople use the product mostly for WP.
)Are there cost-benefit analyses?
No, butwith a $299 suggested retail price in theU.S.
market it doesn't take much analysis tojustify the cost.
Since Q&A integratesmodules for filing, reporting, writing, andspelling along with the IA, the pro rataprice of the IA is only $60, which can oftenbe recovered by answering a single question!Has the system been empirically evaluated?Q&A has been reviewed by every major (andmost minor) publications addressing the IBMPC market, and has received consistently highreviews.
Infowor ld gave Q&A a 5 disk rating--its highest.
Pc Week has called Q&A the"quintessential management tool."
Q&A wasthe first software product ever featured inDer Spiegel; it took honors as the software"product of the year" in Australia; and itreceived an unprecedented 2-part review inthe New York Times.Q&A was also evaluated by the NationalSoftware Testing Laboratories, widelyconsidered to provide the microcomputerindustry's most objective testing, in acomprehensive survey of file managementsystems for IBM PCs.
Results were publishedby Software Digest in February, 1986, in a68-page report covering both evaluations andmethodologies.
Q&A received the highestoverall evaluation ever given to any productin any category, and was tops in the criticalareas of ease-of-use and ease-of-learning.In fact, Q&A was tops in all categoriesexcept speed, where it placed second againsta system that keeps all its data in RAMrather than on disk.How well do users adapt to systemlimitations?
Users have been remarkablyforgiving of natural language limitations, asmeasured by calls on our telephone supporthot line.
The chief complaint about the IAis not its language limitations, but itsspeed on floppy-based systems.
(On an EBM ATwith hard disk, performance is not an issue.
)What are the main areas of a_p_plication?Among the most popular in a straw poll were:customer lists, personal records, simpleinventories, expense reporting, bibliographicdata, tax records, project records, jobcosting, employee records, enrollments, realestate, church records, prospect tracking.2) What are the most  important  factors forsuccess of a NL interface?The key is to realize that users do not careabout NL interfaces--they only want to get ajob done.
Thus the important thing is tohelp the user accomplish his task.To help users do their jobs, Q&A providesboth a NL interface and formal interfaces.Some customers like the formal interfaces sowell they never bother with the IA.
(Thistroubles me, but I take consolation in thefacts that these users are in the minority,they appear to be happy, and we charge thesame whether they use the IA or not.
)As for getting the job done through NL, good164l inguist ic  coverage and robustness in pars ingare c lear ly important.
Yet I was amazed tod iscover that users are often content to findANY Engl ish phras ing that wil l  retr ieve thedata they need, and don't seem too worr ied iftheir  most natural way of phrasing a requestdoesn't  work.For a gener ic  database product, being able toport to new sets of data is a necessity.Q&A's IA is adapted to new data basespr imar i ly  through automatic means: The IAuses information from the database itself  toextend its vocabulary.
Users can alsoprovide addit ional  vocabulary manual lythrough the TEACH module.
This module iscomposed of eight subsystems for giv ing theIA "lessons" about words that wil l  be usedwith the new database.Far more human-factors  effort went into thedevelopment and test ing of TEACH than intoany other part of Q&A.
But the results aremixed.
While, we bel ieve we have produced byfar the most easi ly ported NL system on themarket, at least 10% of our customerscontacted in a straw poll indicated that theywere int imidated by the TEACH lessons, andtherefore are shunning the IA in favor of theformal systems for manipulat ing the data.There are no provis ions in Q&A for modi fy ingthe under ly ing grammar rules.
This isbecause Q&A has been designed as a productfor end-users, not as a system-bui ld ing toolfor programmers or l inguists.
If some usersare int imidated by even the simple vocabularyacquis i t ion lessons of the Q&A TEACH module,it seems obvious that al lowing users tomodify the grammar would court disaster.3) Isn,t it too early for commercia l  NLsystems?Q&A sales reports seem to indicate otherwise.4) Will  customers lose interest in NL ifoverblown expectat ions cannot be ful f i l lednow?In advance of Q&A's introduction, Symantec'swhole management team was worr ied aboutinf lated expectations, and a concerted effortwas mounted to meet this challenge.
Ofcourse, we did all we could to make the NLcapabi l i ty  robust.
But we also undertook thetask of educat ing the microcomputer  industryinfrastructure BEFORE introduction.
This wasdone through countless interviews withindustry analysts, f inancial people, authors,distr ibutors,  retailers, lecturers, thepress, consultants, and executives fromvar ious hardware and software firms.
Throughtheir  influence, these people help set theexpectat ions of the market.To my surpr ise and relief, most of theseindustry insiders seemed to expect less fromNL than Q&A delivers.
We are benef i t ing fromthe backlash to AI being oversold previously.As for the customers themselves, they divideinto two groups, with di f ferent expectations.Those who have not used computers beforedon't  know what to expect.
If anything, theyth ink these "electronic brains" already useNL.
So even if they are sometimesd isappointed by the l imitat ions of today's NLsystems, the d isappointment is less than itwould be using convent ional  interfaces?Those who already use computers either don'tcare about NL (because they take pride inhaving learned formal systems) or they areencouraged by how much CAN be done with NL.We have been pleased to find that many powerusers of micros choose the IA rather thanQ&A's query-by-example system?
These usersappreciate the power of natural  language.There is, of course, great room forimprovement in commercial  NL systems.
Earlyattempts l ike Q&A are useful  in educat ing themarket  about NL's potential  and in sett ingreasonable expectat ions for future products?5) Is it just a tremendous amount ofengineer ing to transform a research systeminto a commercial  product  or is it much more(e.g.
new concepts, algorithms)?The answer to this quest ion depends upon whatthe "product" is.
To turn a research systeminto a language development tool forprogrammers involves most ly  stra ightforwardengineering.
(Yet such a tool could beimportant in the r ight niche markets.
)Creat ing a v iable end-user  product for themass market  is another story.
In this arena,product market ing (i.e., designing a productfrom the user 's  point of v iew to fill a realneed) and craftsmanship are even moreimportant than the enabl ing technology.To produce Q&A, Symantec devoted only l imitedresources to the development of the NLanalysis system per se.
Far more time wasdevoted to human-factors  and performanceissues, which are not general ly  important inNL research systems.
Considerableintel lectual  attent ion was focused on TEACH,on extract ing NL related information from thedatabase, on parse-t ime error handling, andon developing robust pars ing methodologies.And all of these act iv i t ies were dwarfed bythe efforts to develop the database, reportgenerator  and word processor with theirconcomitant  support software?6) How wil l  the market for NL interfacesevolve?
(Gee, I wish I real ly knew!
)The fact that Q&A is so high on the salescharts is not l ikely to escape the attent ionof other developers of software for micro-computers.
Because part of the program'ssuccess is c lear ly attr ibutable to the IA, itis reasonable to expect other microcomputerp layers to begin incorporat ing NL in theirproducts also.Lotus Development Corp. recently bought GNP,the developer  of a natural  language interfacefor 123.
Thus, the most v is ib le player inthe microcomputer  software industry hasannounced its interest in the NL area.
If165this product reaches the market bearing theLotus brand name, natural language interfaceswill have received a major endorsement.Another factor is that personal computers maysoon reach significantly lower price points.When high-resolution micros with a megabyteof memory and fast processors (80386 or 68000family) reach the $i000 level, another markettier will open, attracting a new and largergroup of people to computers.
This group isdistinct from the number-hungry group thatmade spread sheets popular.
It will be moresymbol-oriented, wanting word processing andaccess to on-line (or CD-ROM) data.
NLinterfaces can play a pivotal role inreaching this potential market.I think NLP will be widely used to help dosophisticated spelling and grammar checkingin support of word processors.
In the shortterm, this application of NLP may be moreimportant commercially than NL interfaces.Speech input, as usual, is "just around thecorner.
"7) Should commercia l  systems be des igned formainframes,  AI workstat ions  or micros?Obviously, microcomputers are too small forNL systems.
So I advise all of you toconcentrate on mainframes.
Better, buildyour own special hardware to support NLP.8) Is it a market  advantage to bemultil ingual?THE advantage of NL systems is understandingone's mother tongue.
What good is an EnglishNL system to me if I only speak German?
Iwould be better off with a formal system!Each major natural language defines aseparate market.
To reach all these marketsrequires a system for each tongue.Symantec clearly recognizes the importance oftranslating Q&A into multiple languages.F&A, the German language version of Q&A, isalready in an advanced state of development,and work has begun on other languages.9) What research seems most important forimproving the qual i ty  of commercia l  products?In "Natural Language Processing: The Field inPerspective" (Byte, 9/81), Earl Sacerdoti andI sketched three types of NL systems.
Q&Abelongs to the most primitive of these threetypes.
I do not believe that the technology,the hardware or the market is ready for themore advanced types of NL systems, but it i~upon these types that our basic-researchenergies should be concentrated.As for applied research, it would be usefulto focus on database transportability.
TEACHis c lear ly  the weak link in Q&A.Also, now that thousands of people have NLsystems, our community desperately needs todiscover how they are really being used.symantec has a great deal of anecdotal166evidence about the use of Q&A, but lacks theresources to do anything approaching athorough study.
(And besides, the studyneeds to be done by psychologists, not ourcrew of computer and language hackers.
)i0) How do you assess the role of...NL~enerat ion:  After Q&A has interpreted auser's input, its proposed response ispresented in English so that the user may beadvised about what Q&A plans to do.
Webelieve this feedback is essential, and thatthis and other applications give NLgeneration a bright future.Cooperative response qeneration: This is anobvious next step--simple, cheap and useful.Speech act recognition: Some steps in thisdirection have already been taken in Q&A (asin "I wish I knew the time"), but I believewe are a long way from having any viablecommercial system that incorporate ameaningful theory of speech acts.User modelinq: Anything other than the mostsuperficial modeling probably requires toomuch memory for today's micros.~resentat ion  lanquaqes & new t/fp_@sof qrammars: Those that are not just fadscould have an impact in a few years, but Idon't see them impacting the next generationof commercial products, at least not onmicrocomputers.
Personally, I weary fromseeing the same old ~tuff redone each year ina new programming language.
I suppose someprogress is made in this process, but itseems painfully slow.
It would be better tofocus more of our community's resources onnatural language problems, rather than onpolishing programming language techniques.Multimedia communications: A big opportunityexists today for mixing pointing with NLinput.
There are obvious applications whendealing with land maps or otherrepresentations of space.one More Question: What  does it all mean?The early indications are that the market isenthusiastically accepting Q&A and its NLcomponent.
Within a year we should knowwhether NL ability of the kind incorporatedin Q&A is simply a passing fad or isperceived by the market as providing realvalue.
If the latter is the case (and Ibelieve it is), then the market will begin todemand NL capabilities in more and moreproducts.
Either way, there will be muchexciting work to do.Acknowledgment:  Major contributions to thedesign/implementation of the IA were made byDan Gordon, Brett Walter and Denis Coleman.
