l)isambiguation and Language Acquisitionthrough the Phrasal Lexicon *Abst, 'actUri ZcrnikMichael G. DyerArtificial Intellige nee l.aboratoryComputer Science Department3531 Boelter HallUnivelsity of CaliforniaLos Angeles, California 90024USA1.1 Phrasal ParsingThe phrasal approach to language processing emphasizesthe role of the lexicon as a knowledge source.
Ratltcr than main-taining a single generic iexical cntu for each word e.g., take,the lexicon contains many phrases, e.g., t_ake on, ti~ke tothe streets, take to swimming, take over, Old,Although this ,'tl)proach proves effective in parsing and in genera-tion, there are two acute problems which still require solutions.First, due to the huge size of the phrasal lexicon, cspeciaIly whenconsidering subtle meanings and idiosyncratic behavior ofphrases, encoding of \]exical entries cannot be done manually.Thus, phrase acquisition must be employed to construct the lexi-con.
Second, when a set of phrases is morpho-syntacticallyequivalent, disanlbiguation must be perIbrnted by semanticmeans.
These problems are addres cd in the progra ni RI NA.1.
IntroductionThe phras:d approach to language processing \[Beckcr75,Searle79, Pawley83, Filhnore86\] emphasizes tile role of tile lexi .~con as a knowledge source.
Rather than maintaining a singlegeneric lexical entry for each word e.g., take, |110 lexicon con--tains many phrases, e.g., take  on,  take  to  the  s t reets ,take  to  sw i rmaing ,  take  over ,  etc.
Ahhough this approachproves effective in parsing and in generation \[Wilensky84\], thereare three acute problems which still require solutions.
First, dueto the huge size of the phrasal lexicon, especially when consider-ing subtle meanings and idiosyncratic behavior of phrases, en-coding of lexical entries cannot be done manually.
Thus, phraseacquisition must be employed to construct tile lexicon.
Second,parsing require,'; phrase disambiguation (resolving ambiguity).When a set of phrases is morpho-syntactically equivalent, disam-bignation must be perfonned by semantic lncans.In previous papers we have reported strategies for acquiringphrases in context, which include creating syntactic patterns\[Zernik85a\], attd attaching semanlic oncepts for these patterns\[Zernik85b\].
In this paper we discuss how acquisition and pars-ing processes interact with one another.Parsing involves reading chmses in text and instantiating\[CharniakS0\] their corresponding concepts in tile context.
Thephrasal exicon provides the linguistic database 1"o1" parsing.
Alexical entry, a phrase, is a triple associating a linguistic patternwith its concept and a situation.
The basic parsing cycle isdemonstrated in 1)recessing the following paragral)la.SI: vet years \]: t r ied to \].ocate my high schoolteacher, when \]~ranJllto her ill the street.The phrase ran into is parsed relative to the contcxt esta-blished by the first clause.
Assume that the lexicon contains atsingle phrase described inform.
'dly as:phrasepatterl l:  Person l  run  in to  Person2sltllll\[\[01n Personl  d id not plan to see Person2COIICel)t: Personl  meets Person2 accJdo.rltal\]y.Tim clause is parsed in four stcps:(1) The lmttern is matched succcssft, lly against he text.
Con-.scquently, Personl and Person2 arc bound to the speakerand the teacher respectively.
(2) The situation associated with tile pattern is validated usingthe context.
After reading the first phrase the context con-tains two concepts: (a) the speaker has a goal to sce tileteacher, but (b) he has no feasible plan to accomplish thegoal.
(3) Since both (1) and (2) are successful, then the pattern itselfis instantiatcd, adding to the context: the ,s'pea/cer met theteacher accidentally.
(4) Steps (1)-(3) are repeated for each lexical entry.
If moretitan one entry is instantiated, then the concept with the bestmatch is selected.Phrase situation, distinguished form phrase concept, is JntlO-duced in our representation since it solves two problems: (a) indLvambiguation it provides a discrimination condition for phraseselection, and (b) in acquisition it allows the incorporation of thecontext of the exanlple as part of the phrase.11.2 The Modeled PhenomenonThe program R1NA \[7mmik85c\] is designed to parse En-glish sentences by reading text and producing tile correspondingconcepts in the context.
However, RINA's lexicon is incom-plete, and unknown phrases in the text might be encountered and* This research wa',; supported in part by a grant fiom the rl'A Fotmdation.247processed.
RINA's objective is to acquire these phrases from ex-amples in context.
Thereafter, RINA's lexicon, augmented bythese dynamically acquired phrases, facilitates parsing and gen-eration of further sentences.
In the scenm'io below, RINA en-counters the new phrase to throw the book:User: The mobster eluded prosecution for years.Last month, they threw the book at him forincome-tax evasion.RINA is familiar with the words throw and book; however shedoes not know the figurative phrase itself.
RINA engages in a di-alog with a user in order to acquire that phrase.RINA:  The prosecutor propelled a book at him?User: No.
The Judge threw the book at him.R INA:  The Judge threw the book at him.
He found himguilty.Initially, RINA attempts to interpret he text using the literalphrase to throw an ob jec t  at a person.
When this in-terpretation fails, RINA forms a hypothesis about the newphrase.
At each stage, RINA spells out her new hypothesis to letthe user know her state of knowledge and provide counterexam-ples if necessary.
As the user wovides examples, RINA's hy-pothesis about the new phrase is upgraded.
Later on, RINA isable to use this phrase in parsing further sentences:User: The dean of the school threw the book at John.R INA:  He punished him.Four issues must be addressed in modeling this behavior.
(1) The syntax of the new phrase.
How can the program deter-mine the scope and variability of the new phrase?
For ex-ample, should the new phrase for throw the book ath im accept he sentence th row a vo lume at  h im?
Is theprepositional phrase for  income-tax evasion incor-porated as a mandatory part of the new phrase?
(2) Literal interpretation.
What is the contribution of senses ofsingle words in forming the meaning of a new phrase?Would the learner come up with the same meaning if heheard  the hypothet ica l  phrase  the  judge  threw the  bookto h im?
(3) The context.
What is the contribution of the context informing both the syntax and the meaning of the newphrase?
(4) Disambiguation.
Once acquired, what facilitates the selec-tion of appropriate meanings for lexical phrases?
For exam-ple, how can the program come up with two different mean-ings for the following pair of sentences:S2: The Judge decided to throw the book at him.$3: The judge decided that Mary threw the book athim.1.3 The ProgramThe program consists of four components:(1) Phrasal lexicon: This is a list of phrases where each phraseis a declarative pattern-concept-situation triple.
(2) Case-frame parser: In parsing, case-frames \[Carbonel184\]match the text with syntactic and semantic phrase proper-ties.
Unification \[Kay79\] accounts for phrase interaction.
(3) Pattern Constructor: Learning of phrase patterns is ac-complished by analyzing parsing failures.
A pattern-modification action is associated with each failure situation.
(4) Concept Constructor: Learning of phrase concepts is ac-complished by a set of strategies which are selected accord-ing to the context.Schematically, the program receives as input a sequence ofsentence-context pairs from which it refines its current pattern-concept-situation hypothesis.
The pattern is acquired from thesentence, while the concept and the situation are derived from thecontext.1.4 The Pattern RepresentationThree sample phrasal patterns as they are represented inRINA's declarative l xicon are  g iven  below.Pl: ?x:person <take:verb on> ?y:personP2: ?x:person throw:verb <the book> <at ?y:person>P3: ?x:person ask:verb ?y:person ?z:inf-phraseThese patterns actually stand for the following slot-filler objects:Pl: (subject (var ?x)(class person))(verb (root take)(modifier on))(object (var ?y) (class person)))P2: (subject (var ?x) (class person))(verb (root throw))(object (marker at)(var ?y)(class person))(object (determiner the)(noun book))P3: (subject (var ?x)(class person))(verb (root ask) )(object (var ?y)(class person))(comp (var ?z)(form infinitive)(subject ?x))This notation is described in greater detail in \[Zernik85a\].2.
Phrase DisambiguationThere are syntactic patterns which are not unique to onelexical entry.
Therefore, phrases cannot be selected unambigu-ously merely through syntactic patterns.
Thus, ambiguity mustbe resolved by semantic means.
For example, for the pattern runinto  there are two distinct senses, as shown in the followingsentences $4 and $5:$4: For years I tried to locate my high schoolteacher, but I could not find her address.Last week Iranint0 her in the street.S5: My client was driving carefully.
Your clientrsnlnto his Mercedes on a red light.These senses are referred to mnemonically as fortuitous-encounter and vehicle-collision respectively, tlowever, also aliteral interpretation exists for run into  as shown in $6 below:$6: Driving home, I became hungry so I ran into aMcDonald's.The meaning of the clause in $6 is produced literally out of itsconstituents, meaning "move-quickly to the interior of a setting".Although ambiguity in sentences $4-$6 does not pose any prob-lem for a human reader (who knows English phrases), a comput-er program (and a second language speaker) might experiencedifficulty in discriminating the appropriate sense in each case.Ambiguity is resolved in each case by matching phrase si-tuations with the context.
The first lcxical phrase depictsfortuitous-encounter:248pattern ?x:person run:verb <into ?y:person>situation (act (ptrans (actor ?x)(to (proximity-of ?y))))(result(attend (actor ?x)(to ?y)(object (eyes-of ?x))))(plan (mode negative))concept (act-of situation)Figure 1: Phrase P4- Fortuitous E,lcounterThe situation of this phrase is given in terms of phms and goals.It requires that tim context satisfy three points:(1) ?x moves to the proximity of ?y.
(2) As a result, ?x is able to see ?y.
(3) ?x has not planned that outcome (seeing ?y is t, ncxpected).The concept is given in terms of the act itself (concept is(ac t -o f  s i tuat ion) ) .
The second phrase depicts vekicle-collision:pattern ?x:vehicle run:verb <into ?y:thing>situation ($vehicle-oollision (vehicle ?x)(thing ?y))concept (propel (object ?x)(to (location-of ?y)))Figure 2: Phrase P5- Vehicle Collision$vehicle-collision represents he following situation:(2) ?x is involved in a moving script (Scar-riding, $ice-skating,etc.
)(2) ?x moves into the location of ?y.
(3) As a consequence of (2), a preservation-goal of ?x (citberpreserve-health or preserve-social-control) is thwarted.Again, the concept itself points to a single element within the si-tuation.Partial Matching of SituationsWhen several exical patterns match a sentence, the phrasewhose situation matches the context is selected.
However, thesituation prescribed by the phrase does not always exist in thecontext prior to reading the text.
For example, consider the waythe situations of the phrases P4 and P5 above match tim contextin this paragraph:$4: For years I tried to locate my high schoolteacher, but I could not find her address.Last week I ran into her in the street.The plan/goal scenario established in tim context prior to thereading of the phrase in the sentence is:(1) There is an active goal to see the teacher.
(2) No plan is available to achieve this goal.This context does not match the situation of vetticle-collisionsince there is no indication of an accident (riding a car on the onehand, or accident repurcussions on the other hand).
Itowever, tbeother situation is not perfectly matched either (i.e.
tile outcome ofthe encounter is not in the context).
Thus, phrase selection mustbe accounted for by partial matching.
The best match isselected-fortuitous-encounter in his example.3.
Phrase InteractionBesides the surrounding context, phrase disambiguation isalso influenced by phrase constituents.
We describe this aspect intwo cases.
Interaction of a phrase with its cornplement and in-teraction of a phrase with an embedded reference.3.1 Indirect References-the Utility of Selectional Restric-tionsThe selection of a phrase sense could rely on an embeddedreference.
For example, consider the sentence:87: AyellowMercedes ran in to  my car  oi'~ a red l ight .being read relative to two lexical phrases P4 and t'5 (fortuitous-encounter and vehicle-collision respectively):P4: ?x:person run into ?y:personPS: ?x:vehicle run into ?y:thingDue to the type of the reference (i.e., a yellow Mercedes is avehicle), the phrase P5 (vehicle collision) is selected, iIowever,the type of the reference might lead to an incorrect selection.
Forinstance consider the sentence:$8: Yourclient ran into my ear on a red light.Here the type of the reference your c l ient  is l)erson.
This typecauses the inappropriate selection of P4 (where we know flomthe context hat P5 is the appropriate selection).
Tbis reference isan example of the phenomenon we call indirect reference (seealso \[Hershkovits85\] and \[Fanconnier85\] ) Although the speakerin $8 said your client he actually meant your c\].ient'scar, which refers to an instance of a car.
Thus, the referent is re-fen'ed to indirectly through another object.
Two pairs of exam-ples illustrating indirect references are:S9: She likes horses.Sl0: She l i kes  tuna fisll.S lh  John l i s tened  toMozart.g12: Usual ly ,  I l i s ten  to my parents .In $9, the reference horses  could mean any activity related tohorses such as r id ing  hor.~es or watching horses.
On tileother hand, in S10 the activity is probably eat ing  tuna f i sh .in S 11, the reference Mozart does not refer to the person Mozarthimself, rather it refers to the.
sound of his music.
On the otherhand, ill S12 my parents  refers actually to my parent ' s  ad-v ice.
Thus, a reference might refer to an object which merelyrepresents he intended referent.Therefore, categories of lexical items as they appear in thetext, or selectional restrictions \[Chomsky65\] present a very weakmethod for disambiguation, and generally should not provide theonly key for phrase selection, in fact, the identity of referents forindirect references inust be resolved through the embeddingphrase.
The identity of the phrase itself is determined by the con-text, as shown in the previous ection.3.2 A Coml)lement-Taldng PhraseAmbiguity appears also in complement-taking phrases uchas ask, promise, inst ruct~ inform, etc.
Consider tile follow-ing set of sentences:S13: John asked her if she was having hulch .S14: The judge asked Mary to approach the bench .S15: Mary asked the judge to give her a break .Although they all involve the word ask, in each sentence askappears in a different sense (query, command, and appeal,respectively).
What is the representation f the phrase for ask,and how are these sentences disambiguated?
Two extreme ap-proaches to lexical representation are:249(1) Maintain only a single lexical entry which contains all theknowledge of the word ask and all of its possible interac-tions.
This model is best presented by the word-expert ap-proach \[Rieger77\].
In this model, general linguisticknowledge is encoded repeatedly in individual words.
(2) Maintain a lexical entry for each phrase sense.
Clearly thissecond extreme is not feasible since it is impossible topredict all possible situations in which ask might appear.In RINA, there are two lexical entries, representing two basicsenses of ask.P6:pattern :concept :?X ask ?y ?z:question-sentence?x inform ?y that knowing ?zis a goal of ?xP7:pattern: ?x ask ?y ?z:infinitive-phraseconcept: ?x inform ?y that ?z is a goal of ?xAccordingly, the meaning of a sentence is constructed in twosteps:(a) The syntax of the complement determines whether to selectP6 or PT.
In S13, P6 is selected ue to the question form ofits complement.
In S14 and S15, P7 is selected ue to theinfinitive form of its complement.
(b) The meaning of the phrase is constructed by interpreting theconcept relative to the context.The context in both $14 and S15 is the asymmetrical uthorityrelationship.
Thus, the asking act in S14 is taken as anauthority-decree, while in S15 the same asking act is interpretedas authority-appeal.
It is important to distinguish between thesetwo meanings o that the parser can maintain the appropriate ex-pectations in each case.In conclusion, the lexicon must ensure that linguistic clues(such as the syntactic form of the complement) be exploited inconstructing the meaning.
However, the lexicon should not con-tain meanings which could be inferred by general worldknowledge.5.
Phrase AcquisitionSo far, we have assumed the existence of necessary phrasesin the lexicon.
However, in reality a program might encounternew phrases in the text.
Thus, the program must accomplish twoobjectives: (a) pm'se the text in spite of the unknown element,and (b) acquire the unknown element for future encounters.Consider the situation in which the figurative phrase is first en-countered.User: The mobster eluded prosecution for years.Last month, they threw the book at him forincome-tax evasion.R INA:  The prosecutor propelled a book at him?User: No.
A judge threw the book at him.R INA:  The judge threw the book at him.
He found himguilty.And later on:User: The dean of the school threw the book at John.RINA: He punished him.There are three stages in the acquisition process:(1) Apply the literal interpretation.
(2) Acquire the figurative phrase.
(3) Generalize the new phrase beyond the specific context.Literal InterpretationIn the absence of the appropriate phrase in the lexicon,RINA utilizes other available knowledge sources, namely (a) theliteral interpretation and (b) the context.
The literal interpreta-tion is given by the phrase:pattern ?x:person throw ?y:phys-obj <at ?z:person>concept (act (propel (actor ?x)(object ?y)(to (location-of ?z))))(purpose (thwart (goal p-goal)(goal-of ?x)))Figure 3: Propel a Phys-ObjThis phrase describes propelling an object in order to hit anotherperson.
Notice that no situation has been specified.
Generalphrases uch as take ,  g ive ,  ca tch ,  and throw do not have aspecified situation since they can be applied in many situations.
*The literal inteq3retation fails by plan/goal analysis.
In the con-text laid down by the first phrase (prosecution has active-goal topunish the criminal), "propelling a book" does not serve theprosecution's goals.
In spite of the discrepancy, RINA spells outthat interpretation, The prosecutor propelled a book athim?
to notify the user about her state of knowledge.The Trial ContextThe user's second sentence, (a Judge threw the  bookat.
him), and specifically the reference a judge, brings in $trial(the trial-script).
This script involves five entities: (a) Judge, (b)Prosecutor, (c) Defendant, (d) Alleged-Crime, (e) the Law re-garding that crime and its punishment.
The script involves a se-quence of events:(a) The Prosecutor says (mtrans) his arguments.
(b) The Defendant says his arguments.
(c) The Judge decides (select-plan) either:(i) Punish (thwarts a goal of) Defendant.
(2) Do not punish him.Figure 4: The Acts in $trialThis script is used in forming the elements of the lexicalphrase.
(a) The phrase situation is taken as the script itself.
(b) Thepattern is extracted from the sample sentence.
(c) The concept is extracted from the script.Forming the PatternFour rules are used in extracting the linguistic pattern fl'omthe sentence:$13: Last month, they threw the book at him forincome-tax evasion.
(a) Initially, use an existing literal pattern.
In this case, tile ini-tial pattern is:?x:person throw:verb ?z:phys-obj <at ?y:person>Figure 5: The Initial Pattern* Notice tile distinction between preconditions and situation.
While aprecondition for "throwing a ball" is "first holding it", this is not part of thephrase situation.
Conditions which are implied by common sense or worldknowledge do not belong in the lexicon.250(b) Examine other cases in the sample sentenece, and include inthe pattern cases which could not be interpreted by generalinterpretation.
There are two such cases:(1) Last  month could be interpreted as a general time ad-verb (i.e.
: last year he was s t i l l  enro l led  atUCLA, the  vacat ion  s tar ted las t  week, etc.).
(2) For  income-tax evasion can be interpreted as aelement-paid-for adverb (i.e.
: he pa id  dear ly  for hiscrime, he was sentenced for a murder he d id  notcommit, etc.
).Thus, both these cases are excluded.
(c) Variablize references which can be instantiated in the con-text.
In our case ?x is the Judge and ?y is the DefEndant.They are maintained as wtriables, as opposed to the othercase:(d) FrEEze references which cannot be iaslantiatcd in the con-text.
No referent is fonnd for the reference the book.Therefore, that reference is taken as a frozen part of tile pat-tern instead of the case ?z :phys -ob j .The resulting pattern is:?x:person throw:verb <the book> <at ?y:person>Figure 6: Tile Resulting PattErnForming the ConceptIn selecting the concept of the phrase, there arc four possi-bilities, namely the events shown in Figure 4.
The choice of theappropriate one among these four events is facilitated by linguis-tic clues.
AS opposed to the phrase they  threw the book tohim which implies cooperation between the characters, the phrasethey threw the book at him implies a goal conflict betweenthe characters.
Since this property is shared among many verbs,it is encoded in the lexicon as a general phrase:pattern ?x:person ?v:verb ?y:physobj <at ?z:person>concept (act (propel (actor ?x)(object ?y)(to (location-of ?z))))(purpose (thwart (goal p-goal)(goal-of ?x)))Figure 7: Propel At, a General PhraseNotice that rather than having a specific root, the pattern of thisphrase leaves ont the root of the verb as a variable.
Using thisphrase concept as a search pattern, the "punishment-decision" isselected f,'om $trial.
Thus, the phrase acquired so far is:pattern ?x:person throw <the book> <at ?y:person>concept (select-plan(actor ?x)(plan (result (thwart (goal p-goa\].
)(goal-of ?y)))))situation ($trial (judge ?x)(defendant ?y))Figure 8: The Acquired PhrasePhrase GeneralizationAlthough RINA has acquired the phrase in a specific con-text, she might hear the phrase in a different context.
She shouldbe able to transfer the phrase across specific contexts by generali-zation.
RINA generalizes phrase meanings by analogical map-ping.
Thus, when hearing the sentence below, an analogy isfound between the two contexts.SI6: The third time he caught John cheating in anexam, the professor threw tile book at him.The trial-script is indexed to a general authority relation-ship.
The actions in a trial are explained by the existence of thatrelationship.
For example, by saying something to the Judge, tileDefendant does not dictate the outcome of the situation.
Hemerely informs the Judge with some facts in order to influencethe verdict.
On the other hand, by his decision, tile Judge doesdetermine the outcome of the situation since he presents an au-thority.ThrEe similarities are found between Ihe $trial and the sceneinvolving John and the professor.
(a) The authority relationship between ?X and ?y.
(b) A law-violation by ?x.
(c) A decision by ?x.Therefore, the phrase situation is generalized fiom the specifictrial-script into the general authority-decree situation which en-compasses both examples.6.
Presupposilions as a Phrase SituallonA message might be conveyed by an utterance beyond itsstraightforward illocntion.
That message, called tile presul)posi-tion of the utterance, is described by Keenan (1971) as follows:(see also \[Grice75\] and \[Fauconnier85\] Ch.
3):The presuppositions of a sEntEnce are those conditionsthat the world must meet in order for the sentence tomake literal sense.
Thus if some such condition is notmet, for some sentence S, then either S makes no sense atall or else it is understood in some nonlitcral way, for ex-ample as a joke or metaphor.Despite this definition, presupposition has been studied as ameans for generation and propagation of implications \[Gazdm'79,Karttunen79\].
In general, the effort is to compute the part of thesentence which is already giwm, by applying "backward" reason-ing, i.e.
: f rom the sentence the  k ing  of France i s  ba lddetermine if indeed there is a king in France, or fro,n the sen-tence it was not John who broke the glass, determinewhether somebody indeed broke the glass.
Rather than usepresuppositions to develop further inferences, we investigate howpresuppositions are actually applied according to Keenan'sdefinition above, namely, in determining appropriate utteranceinterpretations.
In the phrasal exicon, we equate presul)positionwith phrase situation.7.
ConclusionsDyer (1983) on the one hand, has outlined the use of con-textual expectations in disambignation.
In his model, the lExi-con, and expectations in partieular, were expressed procedurallyrather than delaratively.
Wilensky (1984) on the other hand,developed the notion of the dEclarativE phrasal lexicon.
Itoweverhis model failed to distinguish explicitly betwEEn a phrase and itscontextual expectations.
In our model, within the declarativephrasal exicon the meaning of lexicaI entries is separated into aconcept and phrasal situation.
Contextual expectations take partin learning as well as in parsing.
In learning, the concept is asso-ciated with the salient element, while expectations are associatedwith the surrounding context.
In parsing, only successful nmtch-ing of expectations in the context enables the instantiation of theconcept.251\[Becker75\]\[Carbonel184\]\[CharniakS0\]\[Chomsky65\]\[Fauconnier85\]\[Fi1Imore86\]\[Gazdar79\]\[Grice751\[Hershkovits85\]\[Km'ttunen79\]ReferencesBecker, Joseph D., "The Phrasal Lexicon,"pp.
70-73 in Proceedings InterdisciplinaryWorkshop on Theoretical Is'sues in NaturalLanguage Processing, Cambridge, Mas-saehusets (June 1975).Carbonell, J. G. and P. J. Hayes, "Copingwith Extragrammaticality," pp.
437-443 inProceedings Coling84, Stanford California(1984).Charniak, El, C. Riesbeck, and D. McDer-mott, Artificial Intelligence Programming,Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Hillsdale,New Jersey (1980).Chomsky, N., Aspects of the Theory of Syn-tax, MIT Press, Cambridge MA (1965).Fauconnier, Gilles, Mental Spaces: Aspectsof Meaning Construction in NaturalLanguage, MIT Press, Cambridge MA(1985).Fillraore, C., P. Kay, and M. O'Connor, Re-gularity and Idiomaticity in GrammaticalConstructions: The Case of Let alne, UCBerkeley, Department of Linguistics (1986).Unpublished Manuscript.Gazdm', Gerald, "A Solution to the Projec-tion Problem," pp.
57-87 in Syntax and Se-mantics (Volume 11: Presupposition), ed.Choon-Kyu Oh David A. Dinneen, AcademicPress, New-York (1979).Grice, H. P., "Logic and Conversation," inSyntax and Semantics (volume 3: SpeechActs'), ed.
P. Cole J. Morgan, AcademicPress, NY (1975).Hershkovits, Annette, "Semantics and Prag-matics of Locative Expressions," CognitiveScience 9(3) (1985).Karttunen, L. and S. Peters, "ConventionalImplicature," in Syntax and Semantics(Volume 11, Presupposition), ed.
C. K. OhD.
Dinneen, Academic Press, NY (1979).\[Kay79\]\[Keenan71\]\[Pawley83\]\[Rieger77\]\[Searle79\]\[Wilensky84\]\[Zernik85a\]\[Zernik85b\]\[Zernik85c\]Kay, Martin, "Functional Grammar," pp.142-158 in Proceedings 5th Annual Meetingof the Berkeley Linguistic Society, Berkeley,California (1979).Keenan, Edward L., "Two Kinds of Presup-position in Natural Language," pp.
44-52 inStudies in Linguistic Semantics, ed.
CharlesFillmore D. T. Langendoen, Holt, Reinhartand Winston, New York (1971).Pawley, A. and H. Syder, "Two Puzzles forLinguistic Theory: Nativelike Selection andNativelike Fluency," in Language and Com-munication, ed.
J. C. Richards R. W.Schmidt, Longman, London (1983).Rieger, Chuck, "Viewing Parsing as WordSense Discrimination," 511, Department ofComputer Science, University of Maryland,College Park, Maryland (January 1977).Searle, J., "Speech Acts and Recent Linguis-tics," in Expression and Meaning, ed.
J.Sem'le, Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge (1979).Wilensky, R., Y. Arens, and D. Chin, "Talkoing to UNIX in English: an Overview ofUC," Communications of the ACM 27(6),pp.574-593 (June 1984).Zernik, Uri and Michael G. Dyer, "Towardsa Self-Extending Phrasal Lexicon," inProceedings 23rd Annual Meeting of the Asosociation for Coml)utational Linguistics, Chi-cago IL (July 1985).Zemik, Uri and Michael G. Dyer, "Failure-Driven Aquisition of Figurative Phrases bySecond Language Speakers," in Proceedingsof the 7th Annual Conference of the Cogni-tive Science Society, Irvine CA (August1985).Zernik, Uri and Michael G. Dyer, "LearningPhrases in Context," in Proceedings The 3rdMachine Learning Workshop, New-Brunswick NJ (June 1985).252
