A Compositional Semantics for Directional Modifiers- Locative Case Reopened -Erhard W. HinrichsBolt Beranek & Newman LaboratoriesI.
AbstractThis paper pre,'Jents a model-theoretic semantics for directionalmodifiers in English.
The semantic theory presupposed for theanalysis is that of Montague Grammar (cf.
Montague 1970, 1973)which makes it possible to develop a strongly compositionaltreatment of directional modifiers, Such a treatment hassignificant computational advantages over case-based treatmentsof directional modifiers that are advocated in the A!
literature.2.
Case-based TreatmentsAmong natural language processing systems which attempt toincorporate spatial information, the following strategy seems toprevail.
Directional or locative modifiers are treated either ascorresponding to slots in case "/rames in the canonical lexicalrepresentat ions  of verbs (cf.
Celce 1972, Hendrix, Thompson andSlocum 1973), or as cor responding to conceptual  cases in the(meta - l ingu is t i c )  conceptua l i za t ion  of act ions (Schank 1975).Case based approaches  to the semantics of d i rect iona l  modif ierscan be character i zed  as weak ly  compositional in the followingsense: In a verb phrase  such as f l y  to Chicago the prepos i t iona lphrase  cont r ibutes  semant ica l ly  the meaning of the NP Chicago' as the d i rect iona l  or locat ive goal of the act ion assoc ia ted  with~.he verb phrase .
However, the d i rect iona l  prepos i t ion  to itselfdoes not make a semantic  cont r ibut ion  at all to the meaning ofthe verb phrase  as a whole.
Instead, to merely serves as asyntact ic  marker  for a semantic  ent ity,  namely a locat ive ord i rect iona l  case whose meaning cannot  be separated  from, butra ther  is an in tegra l  par t  of a given verb frame or conceptua ls t ruc ture .
By cont rast ,  the semant ics  of d i rect iona l  modif iersthat  I will be advocat ing in th is  paper  is strongly csmpositionalin the sense that  d i rect iona l  prepos i t ions  serve as autonomoussyntact ic  and semantic  units.
Consequently,  each word in aphrase  such as f l y  to Chicago cont r ibutes  its own, independentmeaning to the meaning of the phrase as a whole.This strongly compositional analysis of directional modifiers has anumber of crucial computational advantages over case-basedapproaches .
Consider how in ferences  between sentences  such as(1) and (2) can be hand led by the two types of approaches .
(I) John went to New York.
(2) John was in New York.In Schank (1975, p.53) sentence (I) corresponds to theconceptual structure in (3).
(3) \ [ ~ N e w  YorkJohn ~-%-~ PIRAte ~ John e - ~ - ~L .X(3) be shou ld  read as: "John is at some time in the past  (p)engaged in an act  of physical  t rans fer  (PTRANS) whose object (o)is John and whose d i rect ion  (D) is from some locat ion X to NewYork."
The fact  that  (1) implies (2) is expressed by a t tach ing  tothe b i -d i rec t iona l  arrow in (3 ) .
the  s t ruc ture  in (4).
(of.
Schank1975, p. 54)(4) J o h n ~  LOC(N.Y.)Schank calls the r-lin/c (v for result) between structures (3) and(4) an in ference.
However, the term in ference  is real ly  amisnomer because the assoc iat ion  between s t ruc tures  such as (3)and (4) is merely a mat ter  of s t ipu lat ion but does not follow fromany genera l  pr inc ip les  or axioms that  would const ra in  thelanguage of conceptua l  s t ruc tures .
For that  matter ,  there  isnothing in Schank's  system that  prevents  a l ink between (3) enda s t ruc ture  which expresses  that  John does not reach  thelocat ion New York.
In the analys is  we will develop below, on theother  hand, the in fe rence  between (1) and (2) follows logical lyfrom the semantics of motion verbs such as go in conjunctionwith the semantics of directional modifiers,Consider next the issue of how easy or difficult it is to upscalenatura l  language systems whose t reatment  of di rect iona lmodif iers is case -based .
Assume a case-based  system in whichonly those verba l  frames or conceptua l  s t ruc tures  areimplemented that  re la te  locat ive or d i rect iona l  case to verbs ofmotion.
Now imagine that  we!
want to extend coverage to verbssuch as wave which, as i l lus t rated  in (5), allow d i rect iona lmodif iers such as to,(5) The Pres ident  waved to the repor ters .Since wave, unl ike verbs  of motion, does not enta i l  a change oflocat ion for the agent  involved, a new verba l  frame or conceptua ls t ruc ture  would have to be int roduced into a system which onlycovers  motion verbs.
Moreover, locat ive or d i rect iona l  casewould have to be re in t roduced into the system as well because ina case-based  system the specif ic effect of a given semant ic  casehas to be determined for each mdividual  frame or conceptuals t ruc ture .
This is a d i rect  consequence of the weaklycomposit ional  semant ics  of suctl systems and in tu rn  leads to anhighly redundant  method of upscal ing.
Since my analysis ofd i rect iona l  modif iers is, by cont rast ,  s t rongly composit ional,upscal ing becomes much easier.
In the case of extendingcoverage to a verb l ike wave, all that  needs to be added is thelexical  semant ics  for the w.~rb itself,  while the semantics ofd i rec t iona l  modif iers can remain untouched.Finally, cons ider  how a case-based  approach  to d i rect ionalmodif iers fares  with respect  to phrases  such as the ones given m(6).
(6) From Russia with LoveTo New York and then to AtlantaSince in case-based systems locative or directional case is arelational notion and is crucially dependent on a verbal frarae orconceptua l  s t ruc ture ,  it becomes impossible to assign anin terpretat ion  to verb less  phrases  as in (6).
One s t ra tegy  forextending case-based  systems to such verb less  phrases  wouldconsist  in supplement ing the re la t iona l  notion of d i rect iona l  orlocat ive case by a non- re la t iona l  counterpar t  which does notdepend on some verba l  frame or conceptua l  s t ruc ture .
But theresu l t ing account  of locat ive or d i rect iona l  case would onceagain be highly redundant  since essent ia l ly  all  of the cases inthe system wouhi have to be spl it  into a re la t iona l  and a non-re la t iona l  vers ion.2, Motion Verbs as Location PredicatesIn their literal sense, locative use to and toZvavd typically modifymotion verbs  such as wal~, ru~, drive, sl ither, move etc.
Anadequate  t reatment  of the d i rect iona l  modif iers themselves is,there fore ,  closely connected to a semantic  account  of suchmotion verbs.
In Hinrichs (1985) I argue that  motion verbsshould be t reated  as stage level  predicates in the sense ofCarlson (1977), namely as pred icates  whose arguments  refer  tos tages  of individuals.
Stages are connected  to individuals inCar lson's  ontology by a rea l i zat ion  re la t ion  R, which assoc iates  agiven indiv idual  with all of the (spo i l s - tempora l )  stages at whichthat  indiv idual  is present .Motion verbs such as move can be unders tood  as prototypica lexamples of s tage- leve l  pred icates ,  since such verbs pred icatesomething about the spatio-.-temporal locat ion of one or moreobjects.
Following Hiurichs (1985), I in terpret  a motion verb l ikemove in terms of a th ree-p lace  stage level p red icate  move + ,whose first two argument positions range over individual stagesrea l i z ing th~ re ferents  of the object and subject NPs,respect ive ly .
Fal lo~ing Davidson (1977), the r ightmcst  argumentpos i t ion r ~n~,es over events,  or more speci f ical ly  over evenl347stages which realize the event that the referents of the subjectand object NPs are engaged in.
Thus, move+(xs) (ys ) (e  s )  shouldbe read as: "the referents of x s and ys  are engaged in an eventstage e s real iz ing an event of moving."
As is customary inMontague Grammar, I express constra ints  on lexical meaning interms of meaning postulates that  constra in the set of possiblemodels of semantic in terpretat ion?
The meaning postulate in (7)states that  an event stage e s which real izes a moving eventspat io - tempora l ly  includes (symbolized as K) at least the locationof the referent  denoted by the object argument, i.e.
yS K e s.This does not exclude the possibi l i ty that  the location of thereferent of the subject NP can be contained in the event stageas well, but this is not required for move,  as (8) shows.
(7) V xS,yS,e" \[ move+(xS)(yS)(e s) ---> yS ~ es\](8) John moved the troops.Of course, different motion verbs will have different propert ieswith respect  to how the locations of the event stages relate tothe stages that  realize the individuals involved in these eventstages.
Consider verbs like s l i ther ,  wa lk ,  and run  which in myframework are analyzed as two-p lace stage level predicates.
Forthese predicates the location of the event stage is equal to thelocat ion of the agent, i.e.
the referent of the subject NP.
Thiscan be enforced by a meaning postulate as in (9).
(9) V xS,e s \[8+(xS)(e s) --> xS=e s \], where ~ t rans latess l i ther ,  wa lk ,  run ,  etc .
.The lexical entai lment associated with the verb move to the effectthat  the locat ion of the referent of the object NP changes canbe captured by the meaning postulate in (10).
(The symbols <and #~ used in (10) stand for temporal precedence and spat ialinequality, respectively.
)(10) V eS,x~,y",x ?
\[R(x~,x ?)
& move+(x~)(y~)(e~) --> a x~\[R(x~,x ?)
& x~ < x~ & x~ ~.
x~\]3, The Semantics of to and  towardNow I let a t0-phrase,  as a modifier of untensed verb phrases(IV*), operate semantical ly on the event stages in the denotat ionof the unmodified verb phrase in such way that  the event stagesin the denotat ion of the result ing IV* phrase const i tute aspat io - tempora l  path (in the sense of Cresswell 1978) betweensome specified point of origin to the location of the termcombining with to.
The t rans lat ion of to is given in (11).
(11) to t rans lates  as XPXPXllXXiP \[kyIS12\[R(12,Yi ) &PATH(il,lr,12) & P(xi)(l l)\]\]The formula following the lambda abstract ions in (11) introducesan individual  stage /2 realizing an individual object y i  which isthe one bound by the noun phrase (NP) combining with to toform the IV* modifier.
The second conjunct in the formulaasserts  that  the denotat ion of the event stage located at l 1,which is to be bound by the t rans lat ion of the IV* phrase thatthe to -phrase  combines with, qualif ies as a spat io - tempora l  path(a not ion formally defined in Hinrichs 1985) between some pointof or igin I r and the spat io - tempora l  location of the point ofdest inat ion.
Finally, the th ird conjunct asserts  the t ru th  of theunmodif ied IV* phrase that  the to -phrase  combines with.
It isthis last  conjunct that  automatical ly guarantees the inferencefrom sentences uch as (12) to sentences uch as (13).
(12) Fangs s l i thered to the rock.
(13) Fangs sl i thered.Using the t rans lat ion for to suggested in (11), sentence (12)receives the reduced t rans lat ion in (14) according to myanalysis.1Al l  the meaning postu la tes  appear ing in th i s  paper ore formulatedIn the language of extensional logic developed in Hinrichs (1985),(14) ~Iea,e i \[R(eS,e i) & PAST(e 5) & 3x e \[R(xS,f) & 2x?Vz ?
\[roek'(z ?)
& ~z a \[R(zS,z ?)
& sl ither'(xe)(e s) &PXTH(eS,lr,ZS)\] ~ x ?
= z?\]\]Paraphras ing (14), it  says that  there is an event stage realizingsome indiv idual  event of Fangs' s l i ther ing such that  that  eventstage l ies in the past and the spat io - tempora l  location of theevent stage const i tutes a path between some implicit point ofreference l r and the location of some unique rock object.
Thepoint of reference lr occurs as a free variable in the formula in(14); l r is to be understood as an indexical parameter similar tothe not ion of a re fe rence  po in t  proposed by Reichenbach (1947)for the interpretat ion  of tenses in English.Notice that  the notion of a path in the translat ion of to in (11)and hence also in the t rans lat ion  for (12) given in (14) is definedto hold of the process making up a part icu lar  event.
Moreover,due to the postulate in (9), the referent  of the subject NP, whenit combines with a motion verb such as s l i ther  to the rock ,  isrealized by a stage spat io - tempora l ly  co-extens ive  to the pathdenoted by the to phrase.
This fact guarantees the inferencebetween sentences uch as (12) and (15).
(15) Fangs was at the rock.For other classes of verbs the same type of inference, namelyidentifying the path with the posit ion(s) of the referent of thesubject NP, cannot be drawn.
For sentences such as (16) we donot want to claim that  the stages real iz ing John make up a pathto Boston.
Rather it is the object NP, in this case an eventterm, that  const i tutes  the path.
The same is t rue of (17); it  isthe ball whose locat ions const i tute  a path to the locat ionspecified in the to -phrase .
(16) John made a phone call to Boston.
(17) Carol set the ball to Lucy.Let us now turn  to the t reatment  of the preposi t ion towardwhose lexical t rans lat ion  rule is given in (18).
(18) toward  t rans la tes  as kPkPkeakxlP(ky I 31 \[R(l,y i) & 31'\ [PATH( I ' , l r , \ ] ) )  & e s _<, 1' & I r < e s & P (x i ) (eS) \ ] \ ] )The t rans lat ion for toward  constra ins the value of the eventstage var iable s s in such a way that  e s has to be spat io -temporally contained in some init ial  segment of a path l '  fromsome implicit point of origin I r to the location I of the referent  .of the NP with which toward .
The requirement hat  the value ofe s has to be an init ial  segment of such a path follows from thecondit ion that  the implicit point of origin I r has to be properlycontained in e s. P roper  containment is necessary in order toavoid that  the value of e s could be equal to the point of origin,in which case an object could count as moving toward anotherobject if the spat ial  location of the f i rst  object remainsunchanged.Using (18), sentence (19) is translated as in (20).
(19) Fangs slithered toward the rock.
(20) 3eS,e i \[R(ee,e i) & PAST(e s) & 3x ~ \[R(xa,f) & ~x?\[Vz ?\[rock'(z ?)
<--> xO=z o\] & 3z a \[R(ze,z ?)
& sl ither'(xS,e s)& 31 \[PATH(1,1r,Z s) & e s _~ 1 & 1 r < eS\]\]\]\]\]The t rans lat ion in (E0) says that  there is an event stagerealizing some individual  event of Fangs' s l i ther ing such thatthat  event stage lies in the past and the spat io - tempora llocation of the event stage const i tutes the init ial  par t  of a pathbetween some implicit point of reference I r and the location ofsome unique rock object.
Since es  in (20) is an init ia l  part  of acomplete path  to the rock, the t ru th  of a sentence such as (12)entai ls the t ru th  of (19), but not vice versa.
Moreover, (12), butnot (19), entai ls  (15).4.
The Aspeetua lE f fect  of to and towardApart from support ing the re levant inference pat terns  betweensentences uch as (12), (15) and (19), an adequate analysis of toand toward should also account for a systematic difference in348the aspectua l  behav ior  of these two d i rec t iona l  modifiers.Sentences  such as (21a) which involve the prepos i t ion  to descr ibeatelis events  or, in the terminology of Vendler (1967), activities.Sentences  such as (21b), on the o ther  hand, re fer  to te l ic  eventsor to accomplishments in Vendler's c lass i f icat ion,(21) a. John walked to the l ibrary.b.
John walked toward the l ibrary.These aspeetua l  p roper t ies  can be demonst ra ted  by examining thecooccur renee  res t r i c t ions  of the sentences  in (21) with temporalmodif iers such as in an hour as in (22) and with for  an hour asin (23).
(22) a. John walked to tile l ib rary  in an hour.b.
* John walked toward the l ib rary  in an hour.
(23) a. Johu walked to the l ib rary  for an hour.b.
Johu walked toward the l ib rary  for an hour.As first pointed out by Vendler, only relic events oraccomplishments can occur with temporal modifiers such as in anhour.
Modifiers such as for an hour can occur  with bothact iv i t ies  and accomplishments.
However, when modified bytemporal  for,  only act iv i t ies  as in (23a) can be in terpreted  asdescr ib ing a single event.
If temporal  for  occurs  with sentencesthat  descr ibe  accompl ishments as in (23b), such sentences  haveto be in terpreted  in some specia l  fashion to make themsemant ical ly  acceptable ,  (23b), for example, can best beunderstood as re fer r ing  to an i te ra t ive  event,  namely of John'srepeated ly  walking to the l ibrary during the per iod of one hour,Since doing something for x amount of time means doingsomething dur ing most if not all sub interva ls  of the in terva l  x,sentences  uch as (24), which re fer  to atel ic  events  or act iv i t ies,can be character i zed  as being temporal ly homogeneous.
(24) Fangs s l i thered  toward the rock.To do something in  x amount of time, on the o ther  hand, meansto do something at  some unique interva l  within x.
Since relicevents  or accompl ishments can be modified by temporal  in, they,in cont ras t  to act iv i t ies  or ate l ic  events,  can be descr ibed asbeing temporal ly  heterogeneous: te l ic  events  such as (25) comeabout  over t i le course of some unique time interva l  I', i,e.
not atsome sub in terva l  of I' or at some in terva l  p roper ly  conta in ing I'.
(25) Fangs s l i thered  to the rock.If my analys is  of d i rect iona l  toward and to is an adequate  one, itshould pred ic t  that  verb phrases  formed with d i rect iona l  towardre fer  to tempora l ly  homogeneous events,  while verb phrasesformed with to re fer  to temporal ly hc terogenous  events, Due tothe way in which I have defined toward as an init ia l  subpar t  of apath  to the pro jected  point of dest inat ion,  the re ferenceproper ty  of tempora l  homogeneity assoc ia ted  with toward can, infact,  be reconst ructed  in the following way.
Let us assume thatthere  is a locat ion I t which qual i f ies as an in i t ia l  segment of apath  from a putat ive  point of or igin r t to a dest inat ion d.Moreover, let  us assume that  r 2, the temporal ly  f inal bound of l / ,is in tu rn  the temporal ly  in i t ia l  bound for a locat ion 12 whichforms the int ia l  par t  of a path from r 2 to d. Then it follows thatl f+ l  2, the spat io - tempora l  sum of l t and l 2, is also an init ia lsegment of a path from r I to d. This is precisely what isrequired to stake the semantics of toward homogeneous.Since my account of motion verbs and directional toward doespredict that sentences such as (26) correspond to atelic andsemant ica l ly  homogeneous events,  my analys is  can supportin fe rences  from sentences  such as (26) to sentences  such as(27).
(26) United Fl ight 342 has moved toward Logan Airportfor the last  f i f teen minutes.
(27) United Fl ight 342 moved toward Logan Airport tenminutes ago.Inference pat terns  between sentences  such as (26) and (27) are,in fact,  highly re levant  for data base in ter face  systems thatprocess  spat ia l  information.
Imagine that  sentence (26) isp resented  to a database  that  monitors p lane movements.
If thesystem does not have the capabi l i ty  to infer that  the eventdescr ibed in (26) is t rue  at  any sub interva l  of the f i fteenminutes ment ioned in (26), the United f l ight in quest ion woulder roneous ly  not be counted when the answer to a subsequentquery such as (28) is computed.
(28) How many planes moved toward Logan Airport tenminutes ago?If we compare the semantics of toward with the semantics of toas defined in (11), it turns out that to is heterogeneous in itsre ference  in the same way as accomplishments.
Recall that  thesemant ics  of to is defined in terms of a complete path between apoint  of or igin and a point of dest inat ion,  Since for any givenpath  there  do not exist any sublocat ions within that  path thatthemselves would qualify as a path  between the same twolocat ions,  the heterogeneons  re ference  property  of to followsautomat ica l ly .5.
ConclusionIn order to make an even stronger case in favor of my analysisof d i rect iona l  modifiers, I would have to demonstrate  how it  canbe genera l i zed  to locative prepos i t ions  other  than to and toward.Even though I cannot discuss this issue in detai l  in the presentpaper ,  I should l ike to point out in conclusion that  the not ion ofa PATH plays an important  role in the t reatment  of o therd i rec t iona l  prepos i t ions such as between, along and across.
Inthe case of across the path  seems to be bounded by twolocat ions on ti le per ipher ie  of the re ferent  of the NP across iscombined with; i.e.
across the meadow specif ies some pathextending from one end of the meadow to the other, Notice,however,  that  the two locat ions that  mark the two endpoints ofsuch a path  cannot  be chosen arb i t ra r i l y  but in some sense haveto be "opposite each other".
Undoubtedly, var ious pragmat iccons iderat ions  enter  the p ic ture  if one wants to make thisrequ i rement  of oppositeness formally more precise.
Thus, itappears  that  the notion of a path has to be complemented byaddi t iona l  constra ints ,  if one wants to account  for semant ica l lystore complex prepos i t ions such as across, Even though I willhave to leave the formulat ion of such addit ional  const ra in ts  tofu ture  research ,  it should be obvious from these brief remarksthat  the not ion of a path is a cent ra l  not ion for the semantics ofd i rect iona l  modifiers in general ,6.
List of ReferencesCarlson, Gregory N. (1977).
Reference to Kinds in ~ .University of Massachusetts dissertation.Celce-Murcia, M. (1972).
P~rad~ for Sentence Recognition.Technical Report HRT-15092/7907.
System DevelopmentCorporation.
Santa Monica, CA.Cresswell, Maxwell (1978).
'Prepositions and Points of View'.Lin~istics and P hilosQp_hz Vol.
2.1, pp.
1-41.Davidson, Donald (1967).
'The Logical Form of Action Sentences'.In: Reacher, Nicholas ed.
The Lo~ of Decision and Action.Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, pp.
81-95.Hendrix, Gary, Craig Thompson, and Jonathan Slocum (1973).
'Language Processing via Canonical Verbs and SemanticModels'.
Proceedings of IJCAI-73.Hinrichs, Erhard (1985).
A Compositional Semantics forAktionsarten and NP Reference m ~ .
Ph.D.dissertation, Ohio State University.Montague, Richard (1970).
'Universal Grammar'.
Theoria 38, pp.373-398.Montague, Richard (1973).
'The Proper  Treatment ofQuant i f icat ion in Ordinary English', In: Hint ikka, J.,J.
Moravcsik, and P. Suppes ads, A~proaches to Natura l~ .
Reideh Dordrecht .Reichenbach,  Hans (1947).
Elements of ~ ~ ,  Berkeley:University of Cal i fornia Press.Schank, Roger (1975).
Con_~?
'e~tual Information Processing.North-Hol land:  New York.Vendler, Zeno (1967).
~u is t i cs  in Philos____?op_hz.
I thaca: CornellUnivers i ty Press.349
