Michael B. KacDepartment ofLiuguisticsUniversity of MinnesotaMinneapolis, MN 55455 USAReconnaissance-Attack Parsing*Tom RindfleschDcpm'tment ofLinguisticsUniversity of MinnesotaMinneapolis, MN 55455 USAKaren L. RyanComputer Sciences CenterHoneywell, Inc.Minneapolis, MN 55427 USAIn this paper wc will describe an approach to parsing one majorcomponent of which is a stragegy called RECONNAISSANCE-ATTACK.
Under this strategy, no structure building is attempteduntil after completion of a preliminary phase designed to exploitlow-level information to the fullest possible xtent.
This first passthen defines a set of constraints that restrict he set of availableoptions when structure building proper begins.
R-A parsing is inprinciple compatible with a variety of different views regarding thenature of syntactic representation, though it fits more comfortablywith some than with others--a point to which we shall return.Three pr inc ip les which are closely al l ied withReconnaissance--Attack are MULTIPLE OPTIONS, GRADED ATFACKand ALTRUISM AVOIDANCE.
The principle of Multiple Optionsstates that a variety of techniques for solving particular problemsshould be available, ranging from simple and constrained tocomplex and powerful.
The underlying idea is that while it mightbe demonstrable that certain tasks lie beyond the capabilities of,say, a local pattern matcher, the pattern matcher might sufficeoften enough to warrant its retention for the cases where it iseffective.
The corollary principle of Graded Attack states thatmore powerful weapons should be called up only after lesspowerful ones have failed.
Finally, the principle of Almfism'Avoidance states (in its strongest form) that no computationaleffort should be undertaken without the guarantee of a payoff.Limitations of space preclude adetailed treatment of the first twohere (see Rindflesch forthcoming), though the third is implicit inthe approach to specific examples to be mentioned later" on.The extent to which these ideas are valid may vary acrossapplications.
In psychological modelling it may prove undesirableto exploit them fully given the existence of phenomena ('gardenpath effects') which suggest that in human linguistic processing,attack is sometimes premature or based on faulty reconnaissance.On the other hand, the principles we have describexl have attractiveproperties in the context of purely practical goals.It is widely agreed that a satisfactory approach to parsing nmstminimize backtracking, storage of uneliminated options andparallel consideration of alternatives; R-A parsing is directlyaddressed to this problem.
(How it differs from other approaches'should soon become clear.)
Given a question regarding thestructure of a sentence, the only possible responses by a pure R-Aparser are 'right answer' and 'no answer'.
That is, if at a givenpoint there is an indeterminacy asto how to proceed, the currentlyactive progn'am odule simply 'passes'.
(Certain ambiguities m'ethus treated as involving situations where, given several availableoptions, no resolution has been made after all relevant infomlationhas been taken into account.)
As many decisions as can bereliably made at a given stage of analysis actually are made, butany which cannot be made at that point are deferred to laterstages.
The kinds of decisions made during the initial stages ofparsing do not constitute structure building (i.e.
construction of ap,'u'se tree or formally equivalent object), though they constrainthe range of options available when structure building actuallybegins.The rationale for' reconnaissance is the fact that the resolution oflocal indeterminacies can depend on following material, and oftendoes.
Working strictly left-right, even with a 'predictive' parser,obviously runs afoul of this problem.
Lookahead (Marcus 1980)avoids the difficulty to some extent, but could be regarded aslinguistically unmotivated.
That is, the need to invoke it in thefirst place is merely an artifact of failure to capitalize on globalsyntactic information which can be easily recovered from the inputbefore any attempt at structure building is made.
As a simpleexample, consider a sentence like 1 believe you as opposed toe.g.
I believe you did it.
If reconnaissance first counts thenumber of verbs in the sentence, and finds only one, then thepossibility that you in the first example could initiate a subordinateclause can be eliminated.
In the second case, that the Object ofbelieve is not an NP can also be determined from cues madeavailable by reconnaissance; sc;e Rindflesch forthcoming.A particularly troublesome problem to which an R-A-basedsolution seems ideally suited is the ubiquitous category-labelambiguity (CLA) found in English.
While some instances oflocal CLA can be resolved on tire basis of preceding material, thiscannot be guaranteed; indeed, ambiguities can pile up awaitingdisambiguation by later material; as an example, consider theCLA exhibited by the first three words in Leave time forms thebasis for faeuhy renewal.
(Given just these words, there are atleast five distinct structural configurations which could be initiatediby this sequence.)
In tire approach described in Rindflesch op.cit., it is determined during reconnaissance that it is not possiblefor more than one oftbe first three words to be a verb owing to theimpossibility of constructing a legal 'ordination configuration' (arepresentation f the relations of sub- and superordination thatobtain among predicates in the sentence. )
This follows from the?
fact that none of the potential w,~rbs can take complements in eitherthe Subject or Object relations, and that necessary conditions forthe occurrence of other kinds of predicate-containing ar uments(such as the presence of overt subordinators, like relativepronouns) are not satisfied.
It is also possible, PRIOR TO ANYSTRUCTURE BUILDING, to determine thatfi)rms is the actual verb,though limitations of space prohibit a detailed explanation.
(Again, see Rindflesch op.
tit.)
This approach contrasts vividlywith more traditional ones, which typicaUy use such brute-forcemethods as backtracking torevoke incorrect hypotheses orparallelconsideration (actual or simulated) of uneliminated alternatives.
2This criticism might seem misplaced since it is an accepted practicefor grammars which drive parsers to attach a 'likelihood' estimateto each rule to aid in the determination f which rule to apply nextduring a parse.
But such values are ad hoe assignments which donot further our theoretical understanding of parsing naturallanguage; a blind guess supported by a likelihood estimate mayhave a statistically better chance of success, but is a blind guessnonetheless.
(Some authors recognize this fact, e.g.
Proudian andPollard (t985), and are carefifl to separate the ad hoe heuristicassignment of likelihood measures from the operation of fire parseiin general.)
Having a reconnaissance phase decreases the extentto which it is necessary to rely on blind application of grammarrules.
The essential idea is to exploit o the fullest possible xtentknowledge about the parsing task derived from the particularproperties of the terrain, in contrast o approaches which useheuristic likelihood estimates as an add-on to the actual grammaror parser.
(For further discussion, see Ryan and Rindflesch1986.
)159The theoretical framework assumed in our work on R-A parsing iscorepresentational grammar (Kac 1978, 1985), which has theadvantage of facilitating precise manipulation of traditionalgrammatical notions such as logical Subject and Object, and sub-and superordination.
These traditional notions are importantcomponents in the formulation of linguistically insightfulstrategies for parsing, as illustrated by the critical role played by'ordination' relations in the preceding paragraph.In order to implement this sort of strategy, it is necesary toimpose some additional control on the parse beyond what wouldtypically be required in a less structured approach.
Thoughmultiple passes over the input are required and it is necessary toexplicitly maintain several different sources of information beyondthe traditional parse tree, the payoff ox' this additional conlrol anddata is the ability to bypass redundm~t intermediate stages in theparse when the input contains ufficient information to allow it.Parsing is thus highly data-driven i the sense that only as muchmachinery as is absolutely necessary is used for any particularparse, and the specific devices used will vary from case to case.The cost of multiple passes, moreover, can be kept relatively lowgiven that the goal of each pass is so specialized as to assure that itcan be completed quickly, while reconnaissance guarantees thatthe absolute number of passes required, even in very complexexamples, can be kept to a minimum.It is helpful to contrast what we have in mind to a system ofphrase structure rules.
Such a system compresses together avariety of different ypes of information (e.g.
information aboutdependencies,  categories, grammatical relations andsubcategorization), and this compression makes it difficult toisolate just the subset of these information types which is mostrelevant o the problem while excluding information which isredundant or i~Televant to the current decision point.
It seems tous less costly and more revealing to organize the grammarunderlying the parser in a more 'atomistic' way, thus making itunnecessary to tease out of the rules infomaation which they donot encode in a transparent fashion.
For example, the rulesS ->NPVP NP->ARTN VP->VS(if taken by themselves) imply that if a sentence contains two ormore verbs, each noninitial one must be in its own embeddedclause.
From this it can be deduced that there can be only onemain verb, but this information (which figures crucially in thedefinition of a legal ordination configuration) is not represented inan immediately accessible form.
An added complication isrepresented by the fact that while arbitrary proper subsets of a setof PS-rules indicate what is PERMITTED, there is no way exceptfrom consideration f the grammar as a whole to determine what isPROHIBITED.Our approach facilitates the use of information at stages in theparsing process where that information is most useful, which hasconsequences not just for syntactic parsing alone but in integratingthe syntactic and semantic aspects of the understanding process.
Ithas long been recognized that some semantic decisions can bemade before an entire syntactic parse is available, and that theresults of these semantic decisions can be used to drive furtherresults in the syntactic parse.
It is further ecognized that suchearly semantic processing makes good sense computationally, andsome current systems make good use of this principle.
We takethis idea one step further by allowing the parser to anticipate onthe basis of very rudimentary and low level cues many structuralcharacteristics of the input which traditional approaches cannotrecognize until substantial structure building has been done.
Forexample, in the R-A model described in Kac 1981, it is possible todelineate the boundaries of complex NP's before their preciseconstituency is known.As noted earlier, R-A parsing is in principle consistent with avariety of assumptions about syntactic representation, and is not160rigidly tied to the assumption that the end result of syntacticparsing is a traditional phrase structure tree.
(See Kac andManaster-Ramer 1986 for discussion.)
The goal of parsing is toprovide an input to tile semantic omponent, and such an input canm principle take a variety of forms (such as a representation fpredicate-argument structure).It is worth pointing out, if it is not already obvious, that we see thecentral issues as linguistic ones first and computational onessecond in the sense that the kind of approach which seems to us tohold out the most promise is one in which efficient parsing is theproduct largely of an adequate qualitative picture of linguisticstructure.
This picture tells us two crucial things: whatinformation there is in the input to be exploited, and when it firstbecomes available.
We hope to have given at least a preliminaryindication of how such a picture can contribute to insightfulsolutions to interesting problems in natural language processing.Notes*The listing of authors is strictly alphabetical.1.
On the other hand, a compromise model in which somefeatures of R-A parsing are exploited has some attractions.
Forexample, suppression of the optional that-complementizer insentences like I believe (that) Mary likes Bill slightly increasescomprehension difficulty, a phenomenon which can be naturallyinterpreted as a short-lived garden path.
One possible way todistinguish between effects such as the one just mentioned andgarden pathing from which there is evidently no possibility ofrecovery is to allow some guess-and-back-up processing in thereeonaissance phase and to attribute short-lived effects to gardenpathing prior to the onset of tbe structure building (attack) phase.2.
We assume that lexical lookup for the entire sentence is donebefore any syntactic processing takes place.
This yields theadvantage of increased modularity, as compared to a system inwhich lexical lookup is incorporated into the syntax; it is thuspossible to make modifications and revisions in the part of theparser which deals with CLAR without the need forcorresponding revisions in other modules.ReferencesKac, M.B.
1978.
Corepresentation f Grammatical Structure.Minneapolis and London: University of Minnesota Pressand Croom-Helm..... .
1981.
Center-embedding revisited.
Proceedings of the ThirdAnnual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society.---.
1985.
Grammars and Grammaticality.
Unpublished ms.,University of Minnesota.--- and A. Manaster-Ramer.
1986.
Parsing without (much)constituent s ructure.
In this volume.Marcus, M. 1980.
A Theory of Syntactic Recognition for NaturalLanguages.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.Proudian, D. and C. Pollard.
1985.
Parsing head-driven phrasestructure grammar.
Proceedings of the 23rd AnnualMeeting of the Association for Compuational Linguistics.Rindflesch, T. forthcoming.
Doctoral Dissertation i preparation,University of Minnesota.--- and K.L.
Ryan.
1986.
Resolution of category label ambiguityby Reconnaissance-Attack Parsing.
Unpublished paper,University of Minnesota.Ryan, K.L.
and T. Rindflesch.
1986.
A Theory of Heuristics fo rParsing.
Submitted to AAAI Annual Meeting.
