DISCOURSE AND COI tES ION IN  EXPOSITORY TEXT I  ~Allen B. Tucker* Sergei Nirenburg* and Victor Raskin***Deparlment of Computer Science, Colgate University**Department of English, Purdue Universityl, Background and IntroductionThis paper discusses tile role of disconrse in expository text; textwhich typically comprises published scholarly papers, textbooks, proceed-ings of conferences, and other highly stylized documents.
Our purpose isto examine the extent to which those discourse-related phenomena thatgenerally assist the analysis of dialogue text -- where speaker, hearer, andspeech-act information are more actively inwllved in the identification ofplans and goals - can be used to help with the analysis of expository text.In particular, we make the optimistic assmnption that expository text isstrongly connected; i.e., that all adjacent pairs of clauses in such a textare connected by 'cohesion markers,'  both explicit and implicit.
Weinvestigate the impact that this assmnption may have on the depth ofunderstanding that can be achieved, rite nnderlying semantic structures,aud the supporting lcnowledge base for the analysis.
An application of thiswork in designin~g the M-based machine translation mdel, TRANSLA-TOR, is discussed in NIRENBURG ET AL (1986) which appears else-where in this volume.When we read all expository text, our intuition relies on some basicassumptions about its coherence.
That is, we normally expect he seriesof concepts to flow naturally from one sentence to the next.
Moreover,when a conceptual discontinuity ocmn's at some point within the text, weare sometimes given all explicit syntactic lue (like.
'on the other hand')that such will occnr.
More often, however, we are not given snch a nine,we are expected to automatically detect his shift of focus without requiring, any explicit prompting.Most of the research in tile field of discourse analysis uses textswhich are dialogues; two or more people are involved, speaker and hearerroles are constantly changing, and speech-act (speaker's intention) infer-marion is a changing and essential factor in tile semantics of the dialogue.For instance, extensive work has been published by LONGRACE (1977),PHILLIPS (1977), REICHMAN (1984, 1985), JOSHI ET AL.
(1981),and GRIMES (1978).
Although expository text does not typically containdialogues, techniques of discourse analysis appears nevertheless to contri-bute strongly to theAnother area of research that directly bears upon the present problem is the notion of textual coherence.
According to HOBBS (1976), anutterance is coherent if it is an action within the implementation of someplan.
In particular, conversation may be characterized as all expressionof planned behavior with goals, and is thus coherent in this sense.
Hobbsdescribes four classes of coherent conversational moves that can occur ina dialogue: Occasion (cause or enablement), Evaluation, Explanation, andExpansion.
In each of these moves, the speaker's goat is to manipulatethe inference process of the hearer, so that tile latter links what he/shealready knows with what is new in the message.
We shall illustrate thattile same premise can serve as a starting point for identifying and charac-terizing coherence in an expository text.2.
Overview of TRANSLATORTRANSLATOR is file name given to an ongoing research project atColgate University which attempts to define a basis for muttilingualmachine translation by using a universal intermediate metalanguage, or'interliugua,' at iis heart.
The idea is to design an interlingua which isrobust enough to represent sufficient syntactic, semantic, and pragmaticknowledge about a text in any source language, so that its translation intoa different arget language can proceed independently of the original text.A more thorough introduction to TRANSI.ATOR can be found thTUCKER AND NIRENBURG (1984) and NIRENBURG ET AL (1986).f This material is b&sed ilDon work suplx~rted bytile National Science Poundation u derGrant DCR-8407114.In this paper', we limit ourselves to exploring those discourse-relatedphenomena which appear ill expository text, and suggesting how thesephenomena may be captured uring the analysis of a text and representedin tile intertingua itself.
To support his exploration, we use those parts oftile interlingua for TRANSLATOR which are relevant to discoursemmlysis, and identify their rote in the analysis process.
The use of italicsin the paragraphs below denotes a concept which has a precise definitionand connotation within iuterlingoa itself.An interlingua text may be either a single interlingua sentence or aseries of sentences connected by discourse operators d. More formally:text :: = sentence  \[d (text text)The discourse operators d are enumerated and briefly described below;their' meanings are more fully described in a later section.DiscourseOperator (d) Use in 'd (textl text2)'-simil change in topic from textl to text2-I simiI continuation of same topicexpan expansion-expan generalizationtemp temporal sequencecondi conditional (cause or enablement)compare compa risonequ!y __ ~t iva!en?e .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.An interlingua sentence is con\]posed of a series of clauses, together withits own characteristic subworld, modality, focus, and speech-act thfbrma-tion.Witltottt going into fro'thor detail \[see NIRENBURG ET At.
(1986)for filrther description\], we note that this representation abandons tiletraditional phrase-structure, dependency or other pnrely syntactic basis forrepresentation, i  favor of a far deeper level of representation for rnecharl-ical understanding.3.
Focus Shift ill F, xpository TextIn expository text, the speaker and hearer roles are more or lesspermanendy assigned to the author and the reader, respectively.
Tileexposition is permanently under the control of the author, add the readerplays a more or less passive role throughout.
Still, speech act informationplays a role in this setting, in the following ways:Definitions, as in 'Data that i,; stored more or less permanently in acomputer we term a database.
"Opinions, as in 'We agree with the point of view that softwarepiracy is illegal.
'Facts, as in 'The Symbolics LISP machine can have up to 8 mega-bytes of memory.
'Promises, as ill 'We shall explain this subject more fully in Chapter8.
'Advice, as in ' I f  you are not interested in the theoretical foundationsof database management systems, you may wish to skip the next sec-tion.
'Questions, as in 'What is the tradeoff between flexibility and effi-ciency in comparing the relational and hierarchical databasemodels?
'Commands, as in 'You should answer the following questionsbefore proceeding to Chapter 2.
'Some of these speech acts are directly related to tile topic under discus-sion, while others serve only to guide the reader through his/her planningand goal-setting activities while reading the text.Tile identification of focus shift is enabled by both the underlyingknowledge base and the discourse-related phenomena that appear in thetext itself.
At the outset of analysis, the text is viewed as a sequence ofsentences, made up of clauses, each one containing a single focus, whichmay be either an object or an event.
Both objects and events have flame-like l'epresentations and are derived from information stored in an under-lying knowledge base.
Tile knowledge base is assumed to be structured,so that relationships among specific kinds of objects and events are181revealed.
These include, for instance, ' isa,'  'part-of, '  be-agent-of,' andother links that tend to explain how primitive and compound events andobjects are interrelated in the world.A focus shift between adjacent sentences or clauses serves to signalthe author's attempt to transfer the reader's attention from the given infor-mation to the new information that will be added to the presentation.
Thesyntactic ontext within which such a shift might take place is arbitrary.For instance, consider the following two examples:1.
The data is shown below.
Notice that some values are missing.2.
When data has missing values, it is called 'sparse'.The first shows a shift from the focus 'data' to the focus 'missing values.
'The second shows a shift from the focus 'data' to the focus 'sparse.
'These illustrations how that the kind of shift that takes place between twoadjacent loci in a text may val~j.
In the first sentence, the shift was one ofexpansion, while the shift in the second sentence was one of generaliza-tion.From a strictly syntactic point of view, we see then that focus shiftcan take place regularly between adjacent clauses (sentence 2 above),adjacent sentences (sentences 1 above), and larger units of text which areadjacent.
Thus, the network of focus shifts within a text may be complex.4.
Defining Discourse Cohesion RelationsThe relations defined below are designed to provide a vehicle expos-ing the discourse structure of expository text.
These relations are a varia-tion of those developed by REICHMAN (1984) and HOBBS (1976); theydiffer because they are especially adapted for use in expository, ratherthan dialogue, types of text.
The 'discourse cohesion relations' that canexist between two adjacent units of text cl and c2 (which in turn may beclauses, sentences, or larger texts) are defined and illustrated as follows:TEMPORAL: temp(cl,c2) is true if there is a temporal relationshipbetween cl and c2.
For instance, the sentences 'It became over-cast.
It began to rain.'
exhibit a link between the concepts of cloudcover and raining, in the sense that one happened before the other.CONDITIONAL: condi(cl,c2) is true if cl  either causes or enablesc2 to occur.
For instance, the adjacent sentences 'It began to rain.John went indoors.'
exhibit a cause-and-effect relationship betweentwo conceptual ctions, raining and going indoors.EXPANSION: +expan(cl,c2) is true if c2 serves as an example or afurther explanation of c l .
For instance, the sentences 'The data isshown below.
Notice that some values are missing.'
exhibit thisconceptual relationship.GENERALIZATION: -expan(cl,c2) is true if c2 serves as a gen-eralization of c l ,  such as in a definition.
In the sentence, 'Thesoftware that allows a person to use and/or modify this data is calleda DBMS,' the new concept DBMS is defined for the first time inthe text, using refinements of another concept 'software' that occurthrough the discourse cohesion relation +expau.
That is, if weidentify 'software' as concept c l ,  'allowing a person to use and/ormodify data' as concept c2, and 'DBMS'  as concept c3, then we seethat rite refined concept, say c l ' ,  results from +expan(cl,c2),  andthe new concept c3 results as from c l '  through generalization; thatis, -expan(cl' ,c3), or -expan( + expan(cl ,c2),c3).CONTRASTIVE: -simil(cl,c2) is true if c2 is either dissimilar oropposite from cl .
For instance, consider the sentence, ' In accessinga database, the user gives English-like commands rather thanPascal-like algorithms.'
Let cl denote the concept of 'accessing adatabase,' c2 denote the (refined) concept of 'the user givingEnglish-like commands,'  and c3 denote the concept of ' the user giv-ing Pascal-like algorithms.'
Then we have the contrastive relationappearing in the following conceptual refinements:c l '=  +expan(cl,c2) and c l "=-expan(c l ' , c3 ) .
That is, c3 servesto refine the concept c l '  by providing a counterexample from thatwhich was provided in the original refinement of cl  by c2.SIMILAR: +simil(cl,c2) is true if c2 is similar, but not explicitlyidentical, to c l .
For example, consider the two sentences, ' Onerole of a DBMS is to provide quick access.
That is, we want theuser to be able to access any item in the database within a fewseconds of response time.'
If we tel these two represent he182concepts cl and e2, respectively, we see that c2 is an approximatelyidentical restatement of c l ,  and so + simil(cl,c2) is true.EQUIVALENT: equiv(cl,c2) is true if we can further ascertain thatc2 is equivalent, or conceptually identical, to c l .
Often thisequivalence is marked by an explicit sign of synonymy, such as theparentheses in the following example.
'The software that allows theuser to access this data is called a database management system(DBMS).'
Here, equivalence is marked between the newly-definedconcept 'database management system' and the acronym DBMS.DIGRESSION: none(cl,c2) is true if none of the other relationslisted above exist between cl and c2.5.
Inferring Focus Shift and Discourse RelationsFollowing the definition of these discourse cohesion classes, it isnecessary to identify some principles upon which the discourse structuremay be revealed in the text as analysis progresses from the first sentenceforward.
That is, at any point in the reading of a text, the system mustunderstand 'what's going on' in the sense of its discourse structure.Letting cl and c2 again denote a pair of items which appear adjacentto each other in a text, the following principles can be used to identifyfocus shift, based on the discourse cohesion relations that can occurbetween cl and c2.1.
If cl is followed by c2 and + expan(cl,e2) is true, then a focus shiftfrom cl to c l '  takes place.
That is, c1' is an embellishment of cldue to the relationship + expan and the supporting concept c2.2.
Similarly, the relation -simil(cl,c2) yields the focus shift from el tothe embellishment c l ' .3.
If cl is followed by c2 and -expan(cl,c2) is true, then the focusshift from cl to c2 takes place.
That is, cl  relinquishes its role asthe focus of discourse to c2 by the process of generalization.4.
Similarly, each one of the relations condi(cl,c2), temp(cl,c2), andnone(el,c2) yields a..focus hift from cl to c2.5.
On the other hand, the relations +simil(cl,c2) and equiv(cl,c2)cause no shift to take place; that is, cl  remains the focus ofdiscourse after e2 has been processed in each case.Connectivity between adjacent concepts in a text is sometimes expli-citly revealed by the presence of 'clue words' and other markers.
The useof clue words for discourse analysis is common (eg REICHMAN (1984)).The example text discussed in the following section contains everal suchclue words.
Sometimes the marker appears as a punctuation mark (suchas a parenthetical which signals the relation +equiv), oilier instancesappear as single words (such as 'However" signaling -simil), while stillothers are complete clauses (such as 'there may be far less' signaling+ simil).Yet, many instances of conceptual connectivity are not cued by thepresence of such markers; the are revealed instead by general syntacticstructure (such as the appearance of a relative clause, signaling +expan)or by semantic properties that are possessed by the underlying conceptsand stored in the knowledge base.
The following discussion suggests howsuch knowledge can be used to mark instances of conceptual connectivityin expository text.Intuitively, some of the conceptual properties that reveal discoursecohesion relations are the following:Property Connectiveisa -expanagent, agent-of + expanobject, object-of + expanpatient, patient-of + expantustrument, instrument-of +expausource, source-of + expandestination, destination-of +expantime tempspace + expaueffects condiMerging these conceptual clues with the explicit syntactic lues fordiscourse connectivity, leads ~ the following table.
This table revealssome of the clues (both explicit and implici0 that lead to exposure of thecohesion relation d(cl c2), where cl attd c2 are adjacent concepts(processes or objects) within the text.Syntactic lues(explicit)cl 'then' c2'if' c l  'then' c2or c l  'caused' c2or c l  'enabled' c2Conceptual clues Relation(implicit) d(cl c2)time(cl) precedes time(c2) temp(cl,c2)c2 in effects(c I ) condi(c 1,c2)c2 in relative c2 in properties(d) +expan(cl ,c2)ctause for cl or c2 in links(el)or c2 isa(cl)cl  ' is '  c2 cl is-part-of(c2) -expan(cl,c2)c l .
'However, '  c2 -simil(cl,c2)cl 'is like' c2 +simil(cl ,c2)c1 (c2) cl = c2 equiv(cl,c2)A simple algorithm to infer such relations between pairs of conceptsin the text, ci atnl cj, can be given.
However, space does not permit itsfurther elaboration i  this paper.6, An ExampleTo illustrate the application of these ideas, we have analyzed the fivesentences of a paragraph taken from the first page of Jeffrey Ullman'sbook, Principles of Database Systems, given below in a specially annotatedform.
The annotations C, S, and D on the left denote clauses, sentences,and discourse cohesion markers that are uncovered in a parse of this para-graph.IdentificationS1C1C2C3$2C4C5C6C7$3C8CI IC125;4DDDConcept or ConnectiveData,such as die above,that is stored more-or-less permauendy in acomputerwe terma database.The softwareT{that allows one or many persons to useor modify tiffs dataisa database management system( )-DBMSA major role of die DBMSisC9 to allow the user to deal with the dataC10 in abstract terms,rather than... \[to allow the user to deal with the data\]as the computer stores the data.In this sense,C13 the DBMSacts asC14 an interpreter for a lfigh-level program-ming language,C15 ideally allowing the user to specify whatmust be done,with little or no attention on theuser's partC16 to the detailed algorithms or datarepresentationused byC17 the system.$5D However,C18 in the case of a DBMS,D there may be far lessC19 relationship between the data as seen by theuser and ...\[the data\] as stored by the computerD thanC20 ...\[the relationship\] between, say, arrays asdefined in a typical programming language andthe representation f those arrays in memory.While space does not permit a detailed description of the analysis ofthis text, below is a summarization f the final result of such an analysis.New Focus Derived From Derived Concept (in CAPS)S 1 DATABASECI '  +expan(C1,C2) DATAD such as the above,C3 -expan(C 1' ,C3) DATABASE$2 DATABASE SYSTEMC6 -expan(C4' ,C6) DATABASE SYSTEM$3 ROLE OF DBMSC8"  -simil(C8',C11') ROLE OF DBMS$4 ROLE OF DBMSD In this sense,C13" '  -s imi l (C lY ' ,C l6 ' )  ROLE OF DBMS$5 RELATIONSHIP OF DATAD However,C19" -simil(C19',C20) RELATIONSHIP OF DATAHere, we note that each sentence has inherited a focus, and fileremaining connectives and semantic properties can later be used to exposethe overall discourse structure of the paragraph.7.
ConclusionWe have outlined a basis for modeling semantic onnectivity amongclauses and sentences in an expository text.
Strong notions of discourserelations, focus, and an underlying knowledge base are essential to thisprocess.REFERENCES1.
Grimes, J., 'Topic Levels,' Theoretical Issues in Natural LanguageProcessing 2, Association for Computational Linguistics, 1978.2.
Hobbs, J., 'A Computational Approach to Discourse Analysis,' CityUniversity of New York (1976).3.
Joshi, A., B. Webber and I.
Sag (eds), Elements of Discourse Under-standing, Cambridge University Press (1981).4.
Longrace,R.
and S. Levinsohn, 'Field Analysis of Discourse,' in W.Dressier (ed), Current Trends in Text Linguistics, DeGruyter (1977).5.
Nirenburg, Sergei, Victor l~askin, and Allen Tucker, 'InterlinguaDesign for TRANSLATOR,' Proceedings of the Conference on Theoreticaland Methodological Issues in Machine Translation, Colgate University(August 14-16, 1985), 224-244.6.
Nirenburg, Sergei, Victor Raskin and Allen Tucker, 'On  KnowledgeBased Machine Translation,' Proceedings of COLING 86.7.
Phillips, 13., 'Discourse Connectives,' Technical Report KS-11,Department of Engineering, University of Illinois at Chicago, 1977.8.
Raskin, Victor and Sergei Nirenburg, 'A Metric for ComputationalAnalysis of Meaning,'  Proceedings of COL\[NG 86.9.
Reichman, Rachel, 'Extended Person-Machine Interface, ArtificialIntelligence 22 (1984), 157-218.10.
Tucker, Allen and Sergei Nirenburg, 'Machine Translation: A Con-temporary View,' in M. Williams (ed), Annual Review of Information Sci-ence and Technology 19, Knowledge Industry Publications (October,1984), 129-160.183
