1.
IntroductionIn this paper, I discuss the role of phonology in the mo-delling of speech processing.
It will be argued that recentmodels of nonlinear epresentations in phonology should beput to use in speech processing systems (SPS).
Models olphonology aim at the reconstruction of the phonologicalknowledge that speakers possess and utilize in speech prowcessing.
The most important function of phonology in SPSis, therefore, to put constraints on what can be expectedin the speech stream.
A second, more specific function re-lates to the particular emphasis ot the phonological modelsmentioned above and outlined in ?
g: It has been realizedthat many SPS do not make sufficient use of the supraseg-mental aspects of the speech signal.
But it is precisely inthe domain of prosody where nonlinear phonology has madeimportant progress in our insight into the phonological com-ponent of language.From the phonetic point of view, phonological knowledgeis higher level knowledge just as syntactic or semantic in-formation.
But since phonological knowledge is in an obvi-ous way closer to the phonetic domain than syntax or se-mantics, it is even more surprising that phonological know-ledge has been rarely applied systematically in SPS.2.
Prosodic factors in the variability of speechOne claim of this paper is that the proper use of phono-logy is one key to the successful handling of variability inspeech.
In (l), five versions of a common greeting in Ger-man are transcribed in a fairly close manner.
(1) Guten Morgen a.
\[,gu:ton 'm0e.gon\]b.
\[,gu:t 9 'm~gn\]c. \[,gun 'm.~(e)gp\]d. \[,g~ 'm~(e)@e. \[n mS~r3\]The version (la) is certainly overly careful even for speak-ers of the standard language in highly controlled situations.But it is precisely in front of the-~ignorant--computer,that speakers might revert to a speech mode as the one in(Is).
It has been noted that speakers talking to a SPS turnto careful, hyper-correct speech when repeating utterancesthat the system did not understand (Vaissi~re 1985: 204).
Ifa system does not have the means for representing this ve-ry explicit form of speech, talking like in (la) is no help forthe system; in fact, it is even harder to understandTHE ROLE OF PHONOLOGY IN SPEECH PROCESSINGRichard WieseSeminar f(ir Allgemeine SprachwissenschaftUniversitfit D~isseldorfD-4000 D0sseldorf, FRGfor the system than the less careful speech.
The SPS willalmost necessarily fail to analyze the utterance althoughthe speaker has made considerable ffort to make himselfunderstood.On the other side of the scale oI variability, there is re-duction, assimilation and even deletion ol sounds, whichmakes speech processing extremely difficult.
(lb) might bethe normative standard language version.
Compared to(la), the nasal consonants carry the syllabicity of the un-stressed syllables.
Also the r-sound will be more or less vo-calized, and the final nasal will be assimilated to the plo-sive.
(lc) and (ld) show further reductions in the segmentalmaterial.
I assume that the various processes occur roughlyin the steps given although nothing hinges on that.
it is im-portant, however, that the suprasegmental information isquite stable over all the reductions in the segmental mate-rial.
( Is) to (lc) show the same number of syllables (as dod and e), and all versions share the same stress pattern.The unstressed syllables are the ones that disappear first,the syllable with secondary stress is reduced in (le).Ti~e conCluSloi\] is that ceductio,,s and omissioi,s h, speed-,are such that as much as possible is kept of the supraseg-mental structure.
Apart from this aspect, the example de-monstrates a major problem for a SPS: The signal for whatis regarded as one utterance can be, even in the abstractform given in (1), highly variable and context-dependent.It is important o realize that phonology since its begin-nings aims at the extraction of the relevant informationfrom the speech stream.
The concept of distinctive vs.predictable and accidental features is a cornerstone for allphonological theories.
To see how this could be relevant fora SPS, we have to look at the structure of such a system.3.
The structure of a speech processin s~_~s~e_mSPS analyze or synthesize speech in order to relate thespeech signal to an utterance representation (text).
Thetext could consist oi the orthographic form of words orsome other form closer to the representation of words ina mental lexicon.
It is common for advanced SPS, however,to define an intermediate representation between the rawsignal and the text.
This representation, a symbolic codefor phonetic categories, stands halfway between the unana-lyzed signal and the textual or lexical representation.
Thebroad structure of a SPS can therefore be depicted as (2).608(2) SignalSymbolic Represen Lation.tTex{ual or lexical RepresentationAs a first pass, the symbolic representation can be: seenas a phonetic transcription, exemplified in (1).
This revealsits intermediate nature: I~ codi:\[ies properties o~ the speechsignal into discrete phonetic categories, but it also containsid iosyncrat ic  teatures that  are not part  of the lexical  re-preseneations or e l  the representat ion el  the utterance.The role ol  the symbol ic representat ion in SPS can bei l lustrated as \[allows.
In speech recognit ion,  it serves as ameeting-poinl:  :for the two I<inds of procedures cal led uponin systems of this kind.
For bot tom-up analysis of d~e sig-nal, results art.
* outputted as pieces of  fl~e symbolic repre-sentation.
For top-down procedures, i.e., hypotheses aboutwhat might occur in the signal, the output is again somepiece of  the representat ion.
The requirements and possibi-l i t ies :\[or bot tom-up and top-down analysis def ine to a largeextent  which c r i te r ia  tl~e symbolic representat ion has tomeet: Whereas the signal is highly speaker-dependent, thesymbolic representation is not.
On the other hand, while alexieal representation of a word would not include predic~-able phonetic information, the phonetic transcription as asymbolic representation would contain information of thisI<ind.
In speech synthesis, lexical representations can firstbe translated into a phonetic representation which is thentransformed into signal components.
This two-step procedurefor the adjustment of the phonetic forms to context influ-ences such as assimilation between adjacent words can pos-sibly very efficient, H lexical representations are mappeddirectly onto speech signals, it is hard to see how adjust-ments of this sort can be performecl systematically.I have been deliberately vague about the nature of thesymbolic representation, because there are various proposalsto this question.
A number ol units have been used and dis-cussed as the elementary recognition or synthesis units, e.g.,the phone, the diphone, the phoneme, the demi-syllable, andthe syllable.
The basic requirement for a symbolic represen-tation in a general-purpose SPS would be that it is able todenote as much in format ion  as can be ext racted f rom thesignal or be deduced f rom the lexical  representat ion.
Thus,i f  the system can compute the occurrence o?
an al lophonicvar iant  of  some sound, then this al lophone should be repre-sentable in the symbol ic representat ion.
Simi lar ly,  if i t  isdetected that  two syl lables are present in the signal, thisfact  should be encoded in the representat ion.These considerat ions lead to the conclusion that  the sym-bolic representat ion might be r icher as is of ten assumed inexist ing systems.
We wi l l  now show that phonological  theorycan help Lo def ine an adequate symbol ic representat ionwhich is both a (:ode for expressing phonet ic  categor ies antia model e l  the phonological  knowledge of the language user.tlt__Solrl ~ re,cent developtr~z!\]its !n~ L\]hoI~oloKyThere is a long tradit ion in phonology to distinguish I)etweensegmental  and suprasegmental  features?
Segmental  featuresare those o:\[ tile inclividual segment; suprasegmental  onesbelong to a domain larger than one segment.But it  is by no means c lear in advance where a featurestands in this classification.
To give an example, segmentsare el:Lea speci\[ied by the feature syllabic .
A segment issyllabic if iL stands in Lhe peal< of the syllable.
Thus, in (3a)all the segments marked with a vertical line are syllabic,all others are not.
(3) a.\[mt3wner~on\] b.
\[ntone~n3 intonationi i , , i  f r J~ ,But here, there are other pronunciations of the same wordwith different syllabic elements, such as (3b).
What remainsconstant is that for each syllable there is exactly one sylla-bic peal<.
This suggests that syllabicity is not a segmentalfeature but suprasegrnental.In this chapter, three examples are used to introducesome aspects of recent models in phonology.
The examplesare ambisyllabicity, vowel length and stress patterns; theconstructs to deal with these are the syllable-node, Lhe CV-tier and the metrical tree.Z~.l.
Am~itz__~l lab le  structureThere is a common notation to marl< syllable-boundaries bysome symbol inserted into the segment string.
But recentwork on the syllable (such as l(iparsl<y 1979, Clements &Keyser 1983) has assigned to the syllable a more importantrole than iust a boundary notion.
That syllables are not justboundaries can be shown by the phenomenon of ambisyllabi-city, which occurs in a number of languages.It is well-known that in German words as Mitte or lassenthe intervocalic onsonants are a part of both syllables o1each word.
In view of this fact, it becomes a rather arbi-trary and unmotivated ecision to insert a syllable-boundary.But the syllable division and the ambisyllabic nature of someconsonants can be naturaliy denoted if the syllable is givena hierarchial character.
The notation for Mitre would thenbe as in (4), with '~ ' denoting the syllable node.\[ m r /~t  "a \]"the segments and the syl lable nodes appear on d i f fe rentrows or ' t iers '  of  the representat ion.
This does away withthe concept of the phonetic representat ion as a uni l inear609string.
Elements on the different tiers are connected by'association lines'.
In the unmarked case, association isone-to-one, but in the case of an ambisyllabic segment as-sociation, association is one-to-many, as demonstrated bythe / t /  in (#).#.2.
Vowel length and the CV-tierThe syllable is probably more complex than is assumed inO).
This can be il lustrated by the facts of vowel length.
InGerman, which has contrastive vowel length, it appears thatlong vowels take up the space of a short vowel plus a con-sonant or of a diphthong (two short vowels).
This is shown,e.g.~ by the fact that the maximal number of final conso-nants is 4 in a word with a short vowel (Herbst), but 3 ina word with a long vowel (Obst).
To give formal recognitionto the idea that a long vowel uses two positions in the syl-lable, although it is only one segment, yet another tier canbe introduced into the syllable, called the CV-tier.
It con-sists only of the elements C and V, where V denotes thesyllabic nucleus of the syllable and C a consonantal positionin the syllable.
A syllable, then, is of the form (5); the ma-ximal number of C-positions has to be determined for eachlanguage.
The fact noted above that every syllable has ex-actly ol~esyllabic nucleus can be expressed by letting V bean obligatory constituent of the syllable in the schema (5).
(5) e. .
.
C V C .
.
.We have now a new formalism to express (phonological!
)length not as a segmental feature such as long but as anassociation between the segmental tier and the CV~tier.The minimal pair Fall 'fall' vs. fahl 'pale' would be giventhe structural representation (6).
With a given number ofconsonants following the V-position, the system also ex-plains the fact that long vowels allow one consonant lessin the syllable than short vowels.
(6) oC V C C V C Ct \ /Ef la 1 \] \] \[~ a 1 \[3By treating phonological length as an association betweentiers, l do not imply that all durational aspects of speechcan be handled this way.
There are other important imingrelations between segments that determine intelligibilityand naturalness of synthetic speech (s,ee Huggins 1980).These have to be represented by other means, but are(partly) effects of the prosodic structure.
Well-known ex-amples include phrase-final lengthening and stress- timingvs.
syllable timing.6104.3.
Stress patterns and the metrical treeMoving up one or two levels in the prosodic hierarchy,there is the fact that strings of syllables occur in distinctaccentuation patterns.
It is part of the phonological compe-tence of speakers of a language to be able to judge the ac-centual weight of a syllable with respect to its neighbouringsyllables.
In metrical models, this competence is formallyexpressed by metrical trees with syllables as terminal nodes.To give an example, the adjective dberfldssig 'superfluous'has the highest degree of prominence on the first syllable,and the third syllable is relatively stronger than the lastone.
If a binary tree such as (8) is constructed over thesyllables, and the nodes are labelled 's' (strong) and 'w'(weak), these accentual relations can be expressed easilyand adequately.
Syllabic and segmental detail is ignored inthe examples here.
(8 ) / .x  (9) a. b.
"~--s wS W S W ~/(5 (5  O C5 G O GO O C5 O O O O OiiberflLissig dog house university regulationsInterpret ing accent as an abstract pattern over largerunits has several advantages.
It is, e.g., possible to givesimple configurations as accent patterns for certain typesof constructions.
Compounds consisting of two words (inEnglish as well  as German) can be assigned the accent pat-tern ,/",.
, independently of its internal accent pattern.S W(g) and (9) il lustrate the situation.
As (9b) shows, word-inter-nal accent relations can become quite complex.
This is notthe point to discuss how trees of this kind are constructed,nor can we present al ternat ives thatA set of d i f f i cu l t  questions arisesual patterns of this kind are realizedthat the metr ica l  tree itself is quitehave been suggested,if we ask how accent-phonetically.
Noticeuninformative in thisrespect.
But this may turn out to be an advantage, since itare is clear that  there a number of phonetic parameters corre-lating with accent.
Intensity,  length, Fo-movement ,  and vo-wel quality have all been identi f ied as potent ia l  factors.But i t  may even be the case that l isteners perceive an ac-cent for which there is no cue in the signal.
This is not sosurprising, if  accent is part of the phonological competence,and if at least some word- internal  accents do not carrymuch information.
Given that this is roughly a true pictureof the situation, then it is a good strategy to have ratherabstract accent representations which can be realized pho-net ical ly in a very f lex ib le manner--and sometimes not atal l .5.
Some consequences for ~ _ s s i ~It is somet imes  asked in speech processing work whatshould be the recognit ion or synthesis unit of SPS.
The sur-vey o\[ i)honological theory in ?
t~.
reveals this to be a pseu-do-question, fhere  are hierarchies of units, and as far asthey part ic ipate in phonological/phonetic processes, theye are real and shouldbused in SPS.
Therefore,  the symbolicrepresentat ion i termediate between the acoust ic  signaland the 2inal representat ion of the ut terance (see (1)) shouldbe richer in st ructure than is general ly assumed.
It is not astring o:~ units, but a mult i - layered system of units.
Someingredients o:f this representat ion have been introduced a-bove.l:f prosodic information including the syllable is so impor-tant for speech processing,  one might conclude that the useof a higher level unit such as the demi-syl lable or the syl-lable is strongly recommended.
But a consideration of someresults of the morphology-phonology interact ion shows thisto be a precipitated conclusion.Very often, wordinternal morpheme boundaries do notmatch syllable boundaries, if the phonetic information forthe words (1o1, , and bus would be stored as the syllable tem-plates \[dog\] and \[bAs\], there would have to be additionaltemplates  for the plural :forms \[dogz7 and \[b,~s\]l,\[s\]z\].
Butplural Iorrnation in English is a very regular process, con-sisting of the aff ixat ion of a segment  and a few rules de-pending on the nature ol the final segment  of the stem.Only if this segmenta l  in lormation is available to the sys-tem, a general  algorithm ;for plural formation can work.Taking syllables as unanalyzable wholes would mean thespelling out of each plural Iorm in the lexicon, thus nearlydoubling tbe number of lexical representat ions.
There arenumerous imilar examples in the morphology ol languagesl ike English and German.In part icular,  there seem to be the following advantagesin using a muLti-l inear representat ion of tbe kind sl<etchedabove.
First, the representat ions derived from prosodic the-ories a lmost  torce the uti l ization o:\[ all kinds of inforrnationin the speech signal, especial ly suprasegmenta l  in lormation.This leads to a higher degree of predictabi l i ty for segments .Take the example ol word boundary detect ion, which is acrucial task :for all SPS :~or connected speech, l ) i f ferentlanguages have di f ferent domains ot syl labif ication.
In somelanguages, e.g.
English and German, the lexical word is theregular domain for syl labi l ication.
(Clitics, such as it 's orauI 'm (from auI dem) are the main exceptions.)
But thisis by no means a universal rule.
In Mandarin Chinese, thereis a good correlat ion between morphemes and syllables,which holds just as well as the one between words and syl-lables in English.
In French, on the other hand, the domainfor syl labif ication is a larger unit, say, the intonationalphrase.
It is the implementat ion of tbis kind of knowledgethat mal<es it possible :for a SPS to uti l ize information aboutsyllable boundaries for the detect ion ot word boundaries.Secondly, the handling ol both interspeaker and intra-speaker variation requires a f ramework in which the phone-tic representat ion i cludes extens ive prosodic structure.First, the rules governing variable speech (including fast-speech rules) are largely prosody dependent,  as was illus-t rated h~ (1).
An adequate :formalization of the rules is thusonly possible on the basis of prosodic representat ions.
Se-cond, extract ing the relevant phonetic cues from the signalbecomes easier if prosodic parameters  are taken into ao-count as Iully as possible.
Both vowel and consonant recog-nition is improved by taking into account Fo-values in thelocal context.I have not addressed the computat ional  side of the re-.presentat ional  problem.
It might be argued that a mult i l ine-ar representat ion of the kind envisaged here is much harderto compute and represent in an actual  SPS.
But intel l igentsystems are quite able to deal with hierarchical  or heterar -chical objects of d i f ferent  kinds.
Also, Woods (1985: 332)mentions the possibil ity of using cascaded ATNs for speechprocessing.
Interlocking chains of ATNs could apply to re-cognize features,  to bundle features  into segments ,  to buildsyllables from segments~ to combine syllables into wordsand to derive stress patterns for these words.The general  picture of a SPS assumed in this paper isthat of a I<nowledge-based, intel l igent system.
I would liketo stress that the phonological component  is only compo-nent in such a system.
But it is perhaps a component  whosepotential  value has not been fully explored.ReterencesC lements ,  G.N.
& S.3.
Keyser (1983) CV-Phonology.
A Ge-nerat ive Theory of the Syllable.
Cambridge, Mass.
: MIT-Press.Huggins, A.W.F.
(1978) 'Speech t iming and intell igibil ity.
'In: Requin, J.
(ed.
): Attent ion and Per formance VII.
Hills-dale, N.J.: Erlbaum.Kiparsky, P. (1979) 'Metr ical  s t ructure  is cycl ic. '
LinguisticInquiry 10, p. t~21-t*#l.Vaissiere, J.
(1985) 'Speech recognit ion: A tutor ial . '
In:Fallside, F. & W.A.
Woods (eds.)
Computer  Speech Pro-cessing.
Englewood Clif:\[s, N.3.~' Prent ice I-tall~ t5.
191-292.Woods, W.A.
(198.5) 'Language Processing for Speech Under-standing. '
in: Fallside, F. & W.A.
Woods (eds.
): ComputerSpeech Processing.
Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prent ice Hall,p.
305.-33g.611
