When Mariko ~alks ~o SiegfriedExper iences  f rom a Japanese /GermanMach ine  Trans la t ion  Project,  -l)ie~mar l{6snerProjekt SEMSYN, Ins~i~uL fiir Inform~t~ikUniversiL~t S~u~garL,Herdweg 51D-7000 SLu~Lgar~ 1WesL Germ~H~yAbstractIn this paper we wil l  report on our experiences from a 2 1/2year project that designed and implemented a prototypicalJapanese to German translation system for titles of Japanesepapers.BackgroundAn american study published in Nature, 308 (1984)- evaluated cir.
9000 Japanese scientific papers.
75 percentof them are published exclusively in Japanese, only a 5th ofJapanese papers are currently evaluated from Westernrefereeing and information services.
The main conclusion ofthe study was, that the general opinion all importantJapanese stuff would be published in English is not true, atleast for the applied sciences.
From this background and fromthe Japanese success in a lot of fields of modern tech-nologies stems a wider interest in having access to Japanesematerial and in having help to overcome the language barrier.Die Inforaationstachnologie end ihr EinfluO auf die Rusbildung in don UGR.
)is Graphgraamatik ale Gonerierungo-gerkzeug balm Vorstehen yon Rildern.in Terminal mit hochgortigen Graphik-Funkti0non~ des air sines eehrfachonrozassor raal istert gird.Faktoran zur Beoinflussung van gartungen und Vorbesearungan uon Progromman.Die Struktur dos Dialogs zwiechan Sgstaa-Inganiaur und Saft~are-InganlauroDis Entuicklung van gerkzaugen zur Einach~tzuno der Vorarbeltungsleistung ?Der Gtandpunkt dos Managers.EIn Entuurf, der Bur Bins Sprache zur Speziflkation van Cemputerharduaroabgoatiwmt wird.
Die Falietudie bel dar Simulation van Mlkro=Prozesaoren vanBIt-SIIce-Typ auf dar Ebone dec RegiaterObartragung.=*MORE**I I I .
t  From Japanese to German via f lTLf lS/ I I  and SEflSYN1.
SEMSYN - a Japanese/German translation systemThe project SEMSYN-83 - SEMSYN is an acronym for SEMantic SYNthesis - has produced a system for the generationof German from semantic representations.
The combinationof this generator with the ATLAS/g-System of the Japanesecooperation partner FUJITSU may be seen as the firstJapanese to German translation system.Die Soainflussung der Zuverl~issigkeit und dot Quel ~t~t van Software mit ainsmSgstem zur UntarstOtzung dar Entuicklung air ulna= Computer.4~29,B6 09=57=5ZThe analysis of the Japanese input - currently at most titlesof scientific papers from the field of information technology- and its transformation into the semantic representation isthe task of ATLAS/II.
SEMSYN's part is to produce a correctand understandable German text for  these semanticrepresentations.2.
The overall design of the SEMSYN-SvstemSEMSYN's generation from, FUJITSU's nets to German surfacestructures is done in three main steps.The first step is to transform the semantic net delivered byFUJITSU into an expression of our own frame representationlanguage - the so called IKBS-descriptions.
IKBS stands forI'((DEVELOP --INST-> COflPUTER)(SUPPORT --OBJ-> DEVELOP)(SUPPORT --INST -> SVSTEfl)(GIVE --INST ~> SYSTEM)(QUALITY --POSSESSOR-> SOFTWARE)(RELIflBILITV --ENUfl-> QUALITY)(GIVE --GOAL-> RELIABILITV)(GIVE --OBJ-> FlFFECT)(*NIL --ST -> RFFECT))I l l .
:  SEMSVN's interface with OTLflS/II (TIT-gi)Instantiated Knowledge Base Schemata.
This transformationdoes not only lead to a more structured representation, ithelps as well to keep the generation modul somewhat inde-pendent from the special form of the FUJITSU interface.652The second -, and probably most important - step is todecide in which way the content  o f  the  semant ic  represen-ta t ion  should be uttered as German text.
The output of thisstep is a functional description of the intended utterance ingrammatical terms ORS = Instantiated Realization Schema).The IRS description completely determines the German out-put.
Its terminal elements are root forms of German wordsand their syntactic features.
:NG(:HERO "Beoinf lussunq")(:FERTURE$ (:gET DEF) (:NUO SG))(:POBSflTTR (:NG (:HERO (:NO-CONJUNCT (:NGS (:NG (:HERD "Zuver l~ss i~ke i t " )(tFERTUREB (sNUff SG)(=DET DEF)))(=NO (:HERD "Quell=l=')(:FEATURES (:NUM 86)(IOET DEF))))(:COBB "und")))(:FERrURES (:gET DEF) (:NUfl PL))(:POSSRTTR (:PG (:PREP "yon")(:POBJ (:N6 (:HERO "Software")(:FERTURES (:NUM SG)(:BET ZERO))))))))(:QUBLIFIERS(:PG(:PREP "mit")(=POBJ(:NG(:HERO "Sqstem")(:FEBTUREB (:BET INDEF) (:COS DnT))(:POSSRTTR(=PG(:PREP "zu")(:POBJ(=NG(~HERD "UnterstOtzunq")(:FEflTUREB (INUM SG) (~DET DEF))(=POSSBTTR(:NG(:HERD "EnLgicklunq")(=FEBTUBEO (:BET DEF) (:BUff SG))(:QUBLIFIERS(=PG (=PREP "=i t " )(:POBJ (:NG (:HERD "Computer")(:FEATURES (:DET INDEF)(=CRS DRT))) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )I.: IRS-Deocription For TIT-B1The third step - the generator-front-end SUTRA-S -- takesthe IRS description and produces a corresponding syntac-tically and morphological ly correct German surface structure(Emele & Momma, 1985).
SUTRA-S is an extendedreimplementation of the program SUTRA that has beendevelopped by Busemann in the HAM-ANS project(Busemann, 1982).3.
Generation from f rame descr ip t ions3,1 The frame description languageThe formal definition of SEMSYN's frame representation is asfollows:<IKBS-DESCR> :::  (A <FRAME-NAME>)( A <FRAME-NAME>WITII .
<SLOTS&FILLERS>)(THE <SLOT-NAME> FROM <IKBS-DESCR>)<SLOTS&FILLERS> :== ( (<SLOT-NAME> = <IKBS-DESCR>)... )Conceptually we distinguish the fol lowing three main classesof frames:1.
Case schemata for verb concepts or actions (among theseare all those frames that have case roles as slots).2.
Concept schemata for noun concepts or "pictureproducers".3.
Relation schemata - ENUMERATION, PURPOSE-, SCOPE-Relation etc.
(THE :OBJECTFROm(0 GIVEgITlt(:GOBL =(fiN ERUMERflTIORgITH(:RRGL = (R RELIABILITY) (A QUALITY))(:POSSESSOR = (R BOFTgRRE))))( : INSTRLIHENT =(THE :INSTRUMENTFROM(fl SUPPORTg;(TH(:OBJECT =(n DEVELOPfrITH(:IN$TRUffERT = (g COMPUTER))))(:INSTRUMENT = (g SVSTEII)))))(:OBJECT = (AN RFFECT))))I l l .
!
Frome-Ooscr!pt!on For TIT-BZ ___Within this scope the repertoire of the semantic representat)on includes:- "classical" case roles a la Fillmore (agent,object, method, instrument source, goal .... )- roles for the further specification of actions(manner, place, time ...)- roles for the further specification of concepts(name, concern, specialize ...)- ways to quantify and attribute concepts- modality (e.g.
not, possible ...).- conjunctive and disjunctive ENUMERATION.3.2 Knowledge bases during generationSEMSYN's main generation phase may be viewed as com-munication between two knowledge bases: Generalknowledge about principal possibilities for realizing thesemantic structures - the so called realization schemata- and specific knowledge mainly about diverse possibilitiesfor lexicalization of semantic svmbols.
The latter is storedwithin the semantic to German dictionary SLEX (ROsner,1986).3.3 Object-oriented implementationThe general knowledge about possible realizations has beenimp lemented  us ing  the FLAVOR system of the LISP machine.The classes of tile frame representation correspond to f lavorclasses.
Realization schemata and the knowledge about therealization of roles are defined as f lavor methods.
Thisobject-oriented architecture has shown to be very flexible.
Itsupported experimenting w i th  the system and its s tep-by-step improvement3.4  Realization schemataFrame descriptions as used in SEMSYN are recurs)re struc-tures and so is - in general - the control structure inSEMSYN's generation, In other words: the same decisionshave to be redone on each level of embedding, tn embeddedframes of course some decisions are already restricted bythe context.What wil l  be the syntact i c  fo rm o f  the text generated forsuch  a f rame?
At least for case schemata we have as first al-ternative the choice between the realization types :CLAUSEand :NG (noun group).
For semantic structures from titles weused as default to generate a noun group (a toplevel caseschema was lexicalised as noun).
Only in a few cases we hadtitles that had to be generated as questions like "What is amodel of ...?
'.653If the general syntactic form has been decided upon, thereare more choices: a clause for example could be realized asan active or a passive clause.
Within a noun group the at-tr ibute could be realized as a relative clause or in the form ofa prepositional group.=NG as Title-Default=Ole Baoinrlussung der Zuverltuslgkeit und dar Quolttat van Software matainu= System zur UnterstUtzung dar Entaicklung nit einom Computer,=NG uith ~PREFER-RELATIVE-CLAUSES*:Oia BoainFluosung deP Zuvarl~saigkait und dar guallt&t van SoL=ware Biteinem Systelp Bit dam die Entgtcklung mat ainam Computar unterstGtzt gird.=CLAUSE in paeuive voice=Die Zuverl~astgkait und die Quoltt~t van So?tuara gird mit miriam System zurUntarstetzung der Entuicklung mtt oinem Computer beeinfluBt.=CLAUSE ulth anonymous Agent=Man baeinftuOt die Zuverl~saigkatt und die Quotlt?t van Software mit ainemSystem zur UnteratUtzuny dar Entuicklun 9 Bit album Computer.IlL: Different Realisationsror TIT-81These decisions are done with respect to several factors.One is the type of the actually filled roles.
If a case schemafor example has an :OBJECT, but no :AGENT, we prefer thepassive construct ion in a clause realization.
On the otherhand stylistic preferences could be another factor.
In theabove case a preference could be to avoid passive, so wewould take the realization schema "ACTIVE with an anonymusagent of "man'".In titles these preferences come from global switches.
Inreal text they could come from the context.3.5 Role real izat ionsFor frames without  roles - the so called terminal structures- the realization is more or less the lexicalisation of thesemantic symbol.
After this, process control and theproduced IRS structure is given back to the surroundingframe or the toplevel.If there are roles, there is some more work to be done.Some fillers of roles are realized as dist inct structures ofthe i r  own (mostlv noun groups).
They could be uttered forthemselves.Other roles only lead to changes in the IRS structure of theirframe:-dec is ion  about  syntact ic  features: fillers of a :NUMBER rolemay e.g.
lead to the pluralization of the noun group of themodified frame.- c reat ion  of noun compounds  as head of the  actual nominalgroup: the filler of a :NAME role may become a prefix ("alasSEMSYN-Projekt').
This holds as well for the terminal fil ler ofa :SPECIALIZE role (variant: realization as an adjective).
Anegative :MODALITY could - in a noun group realization- lead to the prefix "Nicht- ' .For those frames that have roles with realizations of theirown this procedure recursively repeats for the frame descrip--tions of the fillers of those slots.For realized role fillers it has to be decided how their IRS-structure shall be integrated in the overall structure (mostlyas prepositional group) and which syntactic features couldadditionally be inferred.4.
Inferring of missing informationSEMSYN's generation modul starts from a semantic represen-tation that was designed to be language independent.
For theprimitives used - especially for the semantic relations ex-pressed by the arcs in the semantic net - this may be true.On the other hand the data delivered to us bv FUJITSU arenot really universal  representations.
The fact that the seman-tic nets are derived from Japanese is recognizable if onelooks at the information that is not explicit ly represented.In Japanese number or definiteness of nouns or t ime of verbsnormally is not expressed - correspondingly our data do nothave semantic correlates for these features (except in therare case when they have been expressed in the Japaneseoriginal).
The Japanese reader infers the missing informationfrom the context.
In titles there is no such context available.For correct and acceptable German on the other hand weneed determiners and our nouns need a number.
Thereforewe had to develop heuristics to reconstruct this information.Some examples of such heuristics:- a nominalized case frame has to be realized with definitearticle in singular ("Die Generierun9 natQrlicher Sprache").- the :OBJECT role of a nominalized case frame should berealized indefinite and plural ("Die Generierung van Titelo'),except in cases with an exception information in SLEX ("DieWartung van Software").- concepts that have a :NAME role will be realized definiteand singular ("pie Fourier-Transformation").If no heuristic is applicable and if no SLEX information isfound we use as title defaults ' indefinite' and 'singular' ("~=nVerfahren').5.
Concluding remarksOur current concern is to broaden the applicabil ity ofSEMSYN's generator  for German: On the one hand we areexperimenting with the generation of  full texts (e.g,newspaper stories), on the other hand we are extending therepertoire of feasible semantic structures that mav serve asinput for the  generator.Acknowledgement:SEMSYN-83 has been funded by the West German Ministryfor  Research and Technology (BMFT) from July 1983 tillFebruary 1986.
Special thanks to all the colleagues that co l -laborated - for shorter or longer periods - within this project:Kenji Hanakata, Joachim Laubsch, Arek Lesniewki and ShoichiYokovama.ReferencesBusemann, S. (1982) "Probleme der automatischenGenerierung deutscher Sprache", HAM-ANS Memo 8,Universit~t HamburgEmele, M. & S. Mamma (1985) "SUTRA-S - Erweiterungeneines Generator-Front-Ends fuer das SEMSYN-Projekt' ,Studienarbeit, Inst.
f. Informatik, Univ.
StuttgartLaubsch,J., RSsner,D., Hanakata,K., Lesniewski,A.
(1984)"Language Generation from Conceptual Structure: Synthesisof German in a Japanese/German MT Project", in: COLING-84,Proceedings, StanfordRSsner, D. (1986) "SEMSYN - Wissensquellen und Strategienbe ider  Generierung van Deutsch aus ember semantischenRepr~isentation', in: Batori & Weber (Eds.)
Neue Ans~itze inMaschineller SprachUbersetzung: Wissensrepr~sentation undTextbezug', Niemever Verlag, T(~bingenUchida, H. & K. Sugiyama (1980) "A machine translation sys-tem from Japanese into English based on conceptual struc-ture ", in: COLING-80, Proceedings, Tokvo, S. 455-462654
