Combin ing  De ic t i c  Gestures  and  Natura l  Languagefo r  Re ferent  Ident i f i ca t ionAlfred Kobsa, Jfirgen Allgayer, Carola Reddig, Norbert ReithingerDagmar Schmauks, Karin Harbusch, Wolfgang WahlsterSFB 314: AI - Knowledge-Based SystemsUniversity of SaarbrfickenD-6600 Saarbriicken 11West GermanyAbst rac tIn virtually all current natural-language dialog systems, userscan only refer to objects by using linguistic descriptions.
How-ever, in human face-to-face conversation, participants fre=quently use various sorts of deictic gestures as well.
In thispaper, we will present he referent identification component ofXTRA,  a system for a natural-language access to expert sys-tems.
XTRA allows the user to combine NL input togetherwith pointing gestures on the terminal screen in order Io referto objects on the display.
Information about the location andtype of this deietic gesture, as well as about the linguistic de-scription of the referred object, the case frame, and the dialogmemory are utilized for identifying the object.
The system istolerant in respect o impreciseness of both the deictic and thenatural language input.
The user can thereby refer to objectsmore easily, avoid referential failures, and employ vague ev-eryday terms instead of precise technical notions.Keywords: Deixis, referent identification, NP analysis, parsing1.
In t roduct ionVarious aspects of referent identification by hearers have beeninvestigated in the last few years: It has been studied as a pro-cess of noun phrase resolution and attribute comparison (Lip-kis 1982), as a planned action (Cohen 1981, 84), as a pro-cess which depends on focus (Grosz 1981), context (Reichman1981), the mutual beliefs shared between speaker and hearer(Clark & Marshall 1.981) and the modality of linguistic com-munication (telephone vs. teletype, cf.
Cohen 1984), and as aprocess which is prone to various sorts of conversational failure(Goodman 1985).
In all of these studies, natural language isthe only conversational medium.
For identifying objects un-der discussion, the hearer can therefore only utilize the NL de-scriptions provided by the speaker, and information about theprevious dialog and the task domain at hand.In face-to-face conversation, however, participants also fre-quently use extralinguistic means for referent identification, inparticular, various sorts of deictic gestures (such as pointing atsomething by ones hand, finger, pencil, head or eyes).
OneThis work is part of the SFB 314 Research Program on AI and Knowledge-Based Systems and has been supported by the German Science Founda-tion (DFG).
The authors would like to thank J. Rink and W. Finkler fortheir help in preparing the manuscript, E-mail address of the authors:surname%sbsvamuucp~germany.csnet356may assume that this is done for simplifying and speeding upthe identification process for both the hearer and the speaker,as well as avoiding referential failures.
Certain technical in-novations in the last few years (e.g., high-resolution graphicdisplays, window systems, touch-sensitive screens, input via apointing device such as the mouse or the light-pen) have madeit possible for computational linguistics to also experiment withand study a certain class of these deictic gestures, namely, tactilegestures for identifying objects on a terminal screen.From an application-oriented perspective as well, such an abil-ity is certainly a desirable characteristic for natural languagedialog systems.
In current systems, referring to visual objectsinvolves the user either to employ unambiguous labels displayedtogether with the objects (cf.
Phillips 1985), or purely linguisticdescriptions which sometimes become rather complex (e.g.
the"bright pink flat piece of hippopotamus face shape piece of plas-tic" in Goodman 1985).
In Woods et al (1979), a combinationof deictic and natural language input has already been envis-aged, but solely with restricted flexibility.
Since an analyzer forpointing gestures is independent of a particular language, onemight also consider transferring it to other NL dialog systems.In this paper, we will present he referent identification coinponent of XTRA,  a system for a natural-language access toexpert systems currently under development at the Universityof Saarbrficken.
In its present application domain, XTRA isintended to assist a user in filling out his/her annual withhold-ing tax adjustment form.
The system will respond to termino-logical questions of the user, extract from the user's natm'al-language input the relevant data that is to be entered in theapplication form, and verbalize the inferences of the tax expertsystem.
During the dialog, the relevant page of the applicationform is displayed on one window of the screen (for a simplifiedexample, see Fig.
1; only the tax form is visible to the user).For referring to single regions in the form, to the entities toredtherein, or to larger regions which contain embedded regions,the user can employ linguistic descriptions (which we will calldescriptors), pointing gestures with a pointing device (mouse),or both.
From now on, the noun 'delctic' will refer to the useof a pointing device, and the term 'deictlc expression' to theuse of a descriptor plus a deictic (such as 'these deductibles' +deictic), or of a deictic alone.ill Bfihler's (1982) terminology, the kind of deixis used ill oursituation is a dcmonsU'atio ad oculos.
The objects on tile displayare visually observable, upon which the user and the systemshare a common visual field.
In Clark & Marshall's (1981)terms, they are in a situation of physical coprese,~ce.
Theretbre,objects on tbe display need not be introduced by the use,, butcan immediately be referred to by a descriptor, a deictic, orboth.In many cases, however, neither kind of reference will be pre-cise.
Referential expressions, on tile one hand, will often applyto more than one region in our form (as is the case when the useremploys the term 'the deductibles' in order to refer to specificdeductible sums such as dues for the membership in a profes-sional organization).
Deictic gestures, on the other band, arealso often imprecise in that they arc not aimed at the region inwhich the user actually wants to refer to.
Reasons for this mightbe inattemiveness, an oversized pointing device, or the user'sintention not to hide the data entered in the respective field.Another factor of uncertainty is the pars-pro-toto deictic.
Inthis case, tile user points at an embedded region when actuallyintending to refer to a superordinated region.
This is particu-larly the case when a form region is completely partitioned intoa number of embedded sub-regions.Therefore, in our nrodel, we utilize several sources of informa-tion for identifying the region the user probably wants to referto: the descriptor s/he uses, the location and the type of his/herpointing gesture, intrasentential context (case fi'ames), and thedialog context.
The information from each of these sourcesalone may be ambiguous or imprecise.
Combined, however,they ahnost always allow for a precise identification of a reter-ent.2.
Knowledge  sources of  the system2.1.
The  tax form and the form h ierarchyDuring the dialog with tile user, the system displays the relevantpage of the income tax form on tile terminal screen.
As is illus-trated ill Fig.
1, such a form consists of a number of rectangularregions, which may themselves contain embedded regions, etc.We will abbreviate these regions by R1, R2, etc.
The user canapply deictic operations to all regions.For representing hierarchical relationships between regions, thesystem maintains an internal form hierarchy.
Every region illthe form has a corresponding element in the form hierarchy.Hierarchical relationships between form elements can then beexpressed by father-son relationships within the form hierarchy.There are two reasons for introducing such a hierarchical order:- Geometrical reasons: If region Rj is geometrically embeddedin region Ri, then the element in the form hierarchy corre-sponding to Rj becomes a son of tile element correspondingto Ri.
An example is given in Fig.
1 where regions R2 andR3 are geometrically embedded in R1.
Hence, their con'e-sponding elements in the form hierarchy are subordinated tothe element corresponding to R1.- Sema.ntic reasons: In many cases, there is a semantic oher-ence betwee.n regions in tile form not directly expressed bythe geometrical hierarchy.
For example, see regions R 15 andR16, and regions R33 and R34 in Fig.
1, which intuitivelyform units within the form for which no direct geometricalequivalents exist.
Therefore, so-called abstract regions areintroduced in the form hierarchy to which conceptually co-herent regions call be connected.
These regions even neednot be geometrically adjacent and can be subordinated tomore than one abstract region.
In Fig.
1, abstract regionsare denoted by the symbol 'AR '  (as e.g.
AR48, the fatherof R15 and R16).
It is ,lot surprising that abstract units inthe form hierarchy are often directly related to higher levelrepresentational elements in the conceptual knowledge baseof the systcnr (cf.
section 2.3.
).Moreover, we discern two types of bottom regions: Labd re-gions contain the ofticial inscriptions on the form (e.g.
LR9 tbr'Professional Expenses'), value regions contain tile space for theuser's data (e.g.
VR28 for educational expenses).
From nowon, we will no longer distinguish between the tbrm as displayedon the screen and tile form hierarchy stored in the system.
Sincea close relationslfip between both structures exist, no problemswill arise thereby.2.2.
The point ing gesturesFollowing Clark et al (1983), we will call the region(s) at whichthe user pointed to the demonstratum, and tile region whichs/he intended to refer to the referent.
Three cases can then bediscerned:a) The demonstratum is identical to the referent.b) The demonstratum is a descendant of the referent (pars-pro-toto deixis).
In this case, the referent may be a geometricalor an abstract region.c) The demonstratum is geometrically adjacent o tile referent.This occurs when the user points below tile referent, to itsright, etc.
(e.g., by inattentiveness or because of not wantingto hide the data entered in the respective region).In most cases, obviously, the location ofa deictic does not identify its referent, but only restrains the set of possible referentialcandidates.
Therefore, information about the pointing gestureusually has to be combined with information from other knowl-edge sources.Another observation was that mos!
subjects use several types ofpointing gestures differing in exactness.
Their cboice seems todepend on tile size of the target region.
The larger tile referentand the more sub-regions it contains, the vaguer is the point-ing gesture.
Therefore, our system allows the user to chooseamong several degrees of accuracy in his/her deictic.
The user'sdecision, in turn, is taken into account when the system has tochoose between referential candidates differing in size or to thedegree of cmbedment (cf.
section 3.1.2.).2.3.
The  conceptua l  knowledgc  baseIll our system, conceptual knowledge is represented by a frame-based language that shows a strong resemblance to Brachman's(1978) KL -ONE.
The general part of tile representation con-tains concepts and attribute descriptions of concepts.
Attributedescriptions mainly consist of roles and value restrictions fbrpossible role fillers.
Ill Fig.
1, concepts are depicted by ovals androles by small circles (the figure has been somewhat simplified).For object concepts (as e.g.
'MEMBERSHIP  FEE' and 'OR-GANIZATION' ) ,  attribute descriptions specify the propertiesof tile objects described by the concept.
For action concepts (ase.g.
'PEIYSICAL TRANSFER' ,  'ADD'  etc.
), they specify thecase frame.General concepts can be ordered in a concept hierarchy, allow-ing the attribute descriptions of concepts to be inherited fl'om thesuperordinated concepts.
In Fig.
1, the bold arrows denote suchsuperconcept relations.
More specific concepts can be definedby introducing additional attribute descriptions or by fi~rtherrestraining the value restrictions of role fillers.
It is possible for357ORGANIZAT ION\\ \\,\,agent'\ !
i'\.
!
iOF MONE5x)  ~PRC NAL , ?
~,-~x,.
vt~.,~ GI IAR ITABLE \[ ~ ~FESSIO \ ~ 2tf ORGANIZAT ION~ ~,ORGANIZAT IONj~)~EMB,  FF~ConceptualKnowledge iBase (~ ~6)ADD 1I ~ \ Lexicon, ~(R 14) i i = '"--%,,(r~ 16)i "',(R 361F"!
i ~ (AR 51) iii(AR 51)i(R 34)FmJctional-SemanticStructm'es~R 9/~RI3 .
.
.
.
~'VR 2~$/ '/ .
/ .
~ '~"Alt'48"~ ~ F-R16 .
.
.
.
.
~'VR26\[b~R 16- - - -!~Vn29RZ/R  ~0~'"~'a?~ "*-An 49<~" vn 17 .
.
.
.
~vR2~F,?
("'~R 12~R 3, I .AR~ 1~33 .
.
.
.
.
*VR43R31~R53 ~R34-  ~VR44Form ~n 3~1 Deductibles~2 Professional Expensqs,13 Educational expenses R14 250.00,15 Professional organ_~_.Z, member, s ~  ~A'~' 17  Bu., .
.
.
.
.
.
I1~ LT / :~.i ,..p/l,j~ v.,, p: ~__t ,~ .
.
.
.
:= Other Deductibles .
;,\]....\] .
;':.~,31 Ch,rltable organl~4.ation~ :;!.~;i: ": ':.. ":.. !
.-.. , ?
,M c m ~  1~3~t 40'00non.,,..o-.
:..___j__~ ~?.
?0R380,08Hierarchy"Can  I add my annua l  $15.00 ACLdues  to these membersh ip  fees?"Fig.
1: The knowledge sources of the system358a concept to be subordinated to more than one superconcept,thus inheriting the properties of several superconcepts.Natural - language input of the user containing new facts rele-vant tot tax adjustment, as well as data entered irectly into theform, causes lructures of the general part to be mdivMua l i zed .Individualized concepts (depicted by ovals with lateral strokesin Fig.
1) and individualized attribute descriptions are therebycreated.
In Fig.
1, the individualized structures express the factsthat the user spent $80 and $40 as professional organization andcharitable organization membership fees, respectively.Concepts and roles can be linked to elements in the tbrm bier-archy if they conceptually correspond to a region in the form.\[n Fig.
1, tbr instance, the concept 'NUMBER'  is associatedwith regions R16 and R34, amongst  others, and the concept'PROI" .ORGAN.MF,  MB.FI';E' with region AR48.2.4 The  f lmct inna l - semant ic  s t ruc tureBelbre individualizations of the conceptual knowledge base arecreated, the natural--language input of the user is first mappedonto individua{izations of the so:called t imct iona l - semant ics t ructure  (FSS) .
The task of the FSS (cf.
Allgaycr & Rcddig1986) is to express the syntactic and semantic relationships bc-lween the constituents of the input sentence.
It is also repre-sented in a Kl,-()Nl'~-like scheme.
Amongst  other things, theword stem entries in the lexicon determine which parts of theFSS are to be individualized, l )uring this process, inlormationabout the location and the type of the occuring pointing ges-tures is assigned to the nmm phrases to which flmy belong.
Fig.1 shows part of the individualized leSS generated by the inputsentence.The.
I"SS forms the starting point tbr the referential analysis oftile natura lqanguage input, i.e.
the mapping onto individualized structures of the conceptual knowledge base.
This task isperlbrmed by an interpreter using appropriate mapping rules.2.5.
The  d ia log  memoryOur current provisional approach is to regard tile dialog mem-ory as a structured Iis~ containing individualizations of theconcepts in the conceptual knowledge base.
When a rcfi'r-ent is recognized as not having been lnc.ntioned before (because it is not contained in the clialog memory),  the respeclive concept is individualized, linked to the referent, and en-tered as the most relevant element of the dialog memory.
InFig.
1 we assume that regions tt_16, R34, AR48 and ARSI ,amongst  others, have been addressed betbre.
Thus the con-cepts PROF.ORG.MI ' ;MB.FEE ,  C I tAR.ORC; .MEMB.FEEand NUMBER have been individualized and linked to theseregions.3.
Referent  ident i f i ca t ion  processesIn a user's NI, input, a deictic can be used at any position wherea noun phrase or a (locative) adverbial phrase is to be expected.From a syntactic point of view, a deictic can serve two functions:- it supplements a syntactically saturated escription, i.e.
takesthe form of an additional attribute.- it replaces a syntactically obligatory constituent (e.g.
the headof a noun phrase).The position o fa  deictic may be before, within, or after a nounphrase.
Syntactic vicinity is taken into account if an ambiguityoccurs in embedded noun phrases.In the XTRA system, tbur sources of intbrmatlon are utilizedin order to identify the referent of a deictic expression: The lo-cation of tile user's pointing gesture, the descriptor s/he uses,case frame restrictions, and the contents of tbe dialog mem-ory.
The three former sources can be found in the lunctional-semantic structure, the latter source in the individualized part ofthe conceptual knowledge base.
RetErent identification, then,is perlormed in the following order:a) Generation of potential referents by the most appropriateknowledge source.
Source--specific partial plausibility vat-ues are thereby assigned m each generated candidate.
Onlydeictic, descriptor and case.
ti'ame are considered in fills step,lhe dialog memory is only used in step (b).b) Re-ewduat ion of each candidate by consecutively consider-ing the inlbrmation from all other knowledge sources.c) ()vcrall evaluation by considering all partial plausibility as-signments; sel.ection of' the candidate with the highest plau-sibilily factor.In the tbllowing section we will describe how tile most appropriate knowledge source for refi:rent generation is selected andhow referential candidates are generated.
Since we arc pattienlarly concerned with referent identification through pointinggestm'es, we will only descrihe the referem generation strategyof the deixis analyzer (also of.
Allgayer I986).
For generaling candidates through descriptors and ease flames, we use Ihe"classical" way leading from the lcxicon via the FSS oww to in-dividualized concepts in the conceptual knowledge base and tothe form hierarchy.
In section 3.2., we then describe how lllcdeixis analyzer rc-evahmle.s candidales upplied by descriptorand case fi'ame analysis, and how candidates generated by thedeixis analyzer are re evaluated by considering the intormationof all other knowledge sources.
The example depicted m Fig.1, to which we constantly refi:r to in the upcoming section, waschosen to demonstrate that, in many  c'ases, all, or nearly allof these knowledge som'ccs are necessary to correctly identify areferent.3.1.
Generat ing  potent ia l  re fe rents3 .1 .1 .
Dec id ing  for the most  appropr ia te  knowledgesourceIn orde.r to restrain tile computational complexity of tile identi-fication process, it nlust be decided first whether eferential candidates shouM be generated by analyzing the pointing gesture,the descriptor, or the case fi'anm of the user 's  input.
To assurethat only a small number  of candidates nmst  be re-evaluatedin the subsequent steps, it is certainly advisable to choose theknowledge source which yields the smallest set of plausible candidates that still contains the refe.rent.
The evaluation of eachknowledge source is performed according to the following cri-teria:- De ix is :  The quality of a u,mr's deictic for candidate genera-tion is inversely proportional to the number  of regions con-lained in the demonstratum and the number  of ancestors ofthe demonstratum.
A deictic to R3 in Fig.
1, for instance,will yield less candidates th.an a deictic to R34.- Descr ip tor :  I f a  descriptor does not contain a head, it cannotbe used for candidate generation.
Otherwise, its quality isinversely proportional to tim number  of subconcepts of itsconceptual representation and tile number  of regions linkedto these concepts.
E.g., tbr the representation i Fig.
1, tiledescriptor 'number '  will yield by far more candidates thanthe descriptor 'membership  fi~e'.359- Case frame: The quality of a case restriction for referent gen-eration depends on the quality of the selection restriction con-cept of the corresponding role in the conceptual knowledgebase.
This quality can be computed in the previous mannermentioned.
In Fig.
1, the selection restrictions for the ADDconcept do not seem to be profitable for candidate generation.3.1.2.
Generat ing candidates by analyzing the user 'spoint ing gestureAs was mentioned above, our system allows for the use of sev-eral types of deictic gestures differing in precision.
A so-calleddeictic fieM is associated with each type of pointing gesture, itssize corresponding to the degree of exactness of the deictic.
Anexample for three different ypes of pointing gestures is givenin Fig.
2.Educational expensesFig.2: Three types of pointing gesturesA deictic fiekt may either be completely contained in a basic re-gion (as is the case for deictic 1 in Fig.
2) or overlap two or morebasic regions (deicties 2 and 3, respectively).
All basic regionsthat are overlapped by a deictic field serve as first referentialcandidates in our system.
The ratio of that part of a regioncovered by a deictic field in relation to the size of the total re-gion yields the plausibility value for the region.
Deietic 3, forinstance, generates R18, R16, R17 and R15 as first candidates,in order of descending plausibility (cf.
Allgayer 1986).In a second step, the system accounts for the possibility ofpars-pro-toto deixis.
All regions semantically or geometrically su-perordinated to any of the current candidates are also consideredas candidates.
The plausibility assignment of a superordinatedregion depends on its type, the plausibility of its candidate sub-regions, and the type of pointing gesture mployed by the user(the vaguer the pointing gesture, the higher is the plausibilityof the superordinated regions).
In Fig.
2, regions AR49 andAR48 would be added in the case ofdeictie 3, both with higherplausibility than any of the first candidates.
This upward prop,~-gation through the hierarchy can be applied iteratively, yieldingeven more candidates (the valuation function smoothly declinesthereby to render high-level regions less plausible).
The result-ing set of candidates has to be re-evaluated by the processesdescribed below.3.2.
Re-evaluat lng the set of candidates3.2.1.
Re-evaluat ion by analysis of the point ing gestureIf the optimization process of section 3.1.1. decided that de-scriptor or case frame analysis were the most appropriate knowl-edge sources for candidate generation, analysis of the deictie isemployed in our system for re-evaluating the candidates sup-plied by these components.
This evaluation process is rathersimilar to candidate generation described above.
For example,360see Fig.
1 (we assume that the delctic in this example is the sameas deictic 3 in Fig.
2): If the desciptor analyzer generated AR48,AR51, R16 and R34 as potential referents (since the descriptorwas 'membership fee', see below), the deixis component wouldassign high plausibility values to the former, and very low onesto the latter.3.2.2.
Re-evaluat ion by descriptor analysisThis process determines towhat extent he conceptual represen-tation of the descriptor applies to the current candidates.
Eachcandidate is tested as to whether the representation f the de-scriptor, a subconcept of this representation, or (if existent) therestriction concept of the value slot of one of these conceptsis linked to the candidate.
The more concepts in between therepresentation f the descriptor and the linked subeoncept, thelower the new partial plausibility assignment.
Let us assume forour example in Fig.
1 that the deixis analyzer, in order of de-creasing plausibility, has generated regions AR49, AR48, R18,R16, R17 and R15 as potential referents.
If the descriptoris 'these membership fees', the descriptor analysis will prel~rARt8 and R16, since a subconcept of the representation f thisdescriptor is linked to AR48, and the restrictiou concept of itsvalue slot is linked to R16.3.2.3.
Re-evaluat ion by case frame analysisThis process determines towhat extent he selection restrictionconcept of the respective slot in the conceptual representationof the verb applies to the referential candidates under investiga-tion.
This evaluation process is performed almost identically tothat of the descriptor.
In our example, high plausibility wouldbe attributed to regions R16 and R18, since the concept NUM-BER (the restriction concept of the relevant slot of the conceptADD) is linked to these regions.3.2.4.
Restr ict ion by dialog memoryThis process determines whether a referent has recently beenmentioned by checking whether or not an individualized con-cept connected with it is contained in the dialog memory.
Thebetter the position of such an individualized concept in the list,the better the plausibility of the candidate.
In Fig.
1, we assumethat both the professional nd the charitable society member-ships and their values have been addressed just recently.
There-fore, in our example, high plausibility values are assigned toregions R16 and AR48.
The overall evaluation will then selectR16, it having obtained the highest otal plausibility.4.
DiscussionOur system demonstrates that spatial deixis is a valuable sourceof information for identifying referents which also can be in-vestigated and utilized in natural anguage dialog systems withpictoral display.
Three reasons um up the advantages of us-ing pointing gestures: They save the speaker the generation,and the hearer the analysis of complex referential descriptionsand thus simplify the natural-language dialog; they often allowfor reference in situations in which linguistic reference is sim-ply not possible (think of referring to one out of a dozen similarobjects); and they permit he speaker to be vague, imprecise, orambiguous, and to use everyday terms instead of precise tech-nical terms unknown to him/her.In natural-language dialog systems, deixis analysis can be com-bined well with standard methods for referent identification.Sonre of the identification processes (e.g., tests with case frame,descriptor and dialog menmry) are rather similar to the classi-cal methods used ibr anaphora nd ellipsis resolntion.
Others,such as the generation and evaluation of candidates by the deixisanalyzer, are typical with respect to this particular kind of con-versational medium.It should be pointed out, however, that out' environment forspatial deixis is, in several ways, somewhat simpler than thoseoccurring in person-to-person dialogs (cf.
Schmauks 1986).The deictic fieM is only two.dimensional, nd the objects thatcarl be pointed at are clem'ly separated from each other.
Com-pared to real-life situations, the number of possible referents irelatively small.
"Left" and "right" xrman the same thing forthe user and the system (which is not the case, e.g., in face-to-lace conversation), iIowever, this relative simplicity neeci notbe a rh'awback.
Instead, one might regard our environment asa study in vitro, eliminating a number of uncertainty t~tctors sothat tile essential characteristics of spatial deixis become moresalient.Another question is whether the deictic behavior ofsul~jects whouse a poiming device is the same as that of subjects who touchthe display with their fingers (and thus, whether deixis via apointing device is a valid sinmlation of tactile deixis).
Onemight argue, e.g., that people point more precisely with a mousethan with their lingers, or vice versa.
We are currently conduct-ing an inibnnal experiment to answer these questions.
In anycase, only the propagation functions are perhaps all~:cted t0y achange of tile deictic medium, whcreas the referent identitica-lion processes will remain tile same.Attempts are currently being made to also integrate visual anclconceptual salience in our model (cf.
Clark et al 1983).
When apointing esture is ambiguotxs, it appears that regions et off byboM fi'ame or coloring, as well as regions containing importantdata tbr tile task domain are preferred.
We expect his pref-erence to be laken into account in the evahmtion processes oftile deixis analyzer.
Another possible xtension which wc wouMlike to invesdgatc is in replacing the strategy described in section3.1.1.
by a certain form of incremental referent identification.There is strong empirical evidence (e.g.
Goodman 1985) thatpeople begin with referent identification immediately alter re-ceiving initial information about it, instead of waiting tmtil thespeaker's reti~rential ct is terminated.
Since all components de-scribed above are strictly separated, it appears basically possi-ble to also use them in an incrmnental identification process.
Inone-processor systems, however, great care must be taken thatthe knowledge source first adressed oes not block the systemby generating too many candidates.
Therefore, some processcontrolling will be necessary, either by ressource limitation orby taking into account he heuristics listed in section 3.1.1.Rl!fereuce$Allgayer, ,J.
(1986): Eine Oraphikkomponente zur httegra-lion von Zeigehandlungen in natfirlichsprachliche KI-Systeme.
16.
GI-Jahrestagung, Berlin, FRG (in print).Allgayer, J. und C. Reddig (1986): Systemkonzei)tion zur Ver-arbeitung kombinierter sprachlicher nnd gestischer Refer-entenbeschreibungen.
SFB 314, Dept.
of Computer Science, University of SaarbrQcken, FR Germany.Brachman, R. J.
(1978): A Structural Paradigm for Repre-senting Knowledge.
Report No.
3605, Bolt, Beranck attdNewman Inc., Cambridge, MA.Biihlcr, K. (1982): The Deictic FieM of I.,anguage and De-ictic Words.
Abridged translation of K. B/ihler (1934):Sprachtheorie, part 2, chapters 7and 8.
In: R. J. Jarvellaand W. Klein, eds.
: Speech, Place, and Action.
(\]hich--ester etc.
: Wiley.Clark, II.
I1.
and C. R. Marshall (1981): Definite Refi:renceand Mutual Knowledge.
hi: A. K. Joshi, 13. l,.
Webberand I.
A.
Sag, eds.
: Elements of Discourse Unde.rstanding.
Cambridge: Cambridge Univ.
Press.Clark, lI.
11., P,.
Schreuder and S. Buttrick (1983): CommonGround and the Understanding of Demonstrative Reference..Journal of Verbal Le.arning and Verbal Behavior22, 245-.258.Cohen, P. R. (1981): The Need fox" Referent Identification asa l'lanned Action.
Proceedings of the 7th hrternationalJoint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Vancouver,Cda., 31-36.Cohen, P. R. (1984): The Pragmatics of R.efe.rring and theModality of Communication.
Computational Linguistics10, 97-146.Goodman, B.
A.
(1985): Repairing Reference IdentificationFailures by Relaxation.
Proceedings of the 23rd ACI,Meeting, Chicago, 1I,, 204-217.Grosz, B. J.
(11.
)81): Focusing and Description in Natural Lan-guage Dialogues.
In: A. K. Joshi, B. L. Webber and\[.
A.
Sag, eds.
: Elenrents of Discourse Understanding.Cambridge: (\]ambridge Univ.
Press.Phillips, B., M. ,J. Freiling, J. ii.
Alexander, S. L. Messic.k,S.
Rehfnss and S. Nieholl (1985): An Eclectic Approachto Building Natural \[,anguage Interfaces.
Proceedings oftile 23rd ACt, Meeting, Chicago, IL, 254-261.Lipkis, Thomas (1982): A KL-ONE Classifier.
Proceedingsof the 1981 KL-ONE Workshop.
Report No.
4842, Bolt,Beranek and Newman Inc., Cambridge, MA, 128-145.Reichman, R. (1981): Plain Speaking: A Theory and Gram-mar of Spontaneous Discourse.
Report No.
4681, Bolt,Beranek and Newman Inc., Cambridge, MA.Schmanks, D. (1986) : Formulardeixis und ihre Simulationauf dem Bildschirm.
Ein Uberblick aus linguistischerSicht.
Memo No.
4, Sonderforschungsbereich 314, Dept.of Cmnputer .qcience, University of Saarbrficken, FRG.Woods, W. A., R .
J .
Brachman, R. J. Bobrow, R. R. Cohenand J. W. Klovstad (1979): Research in Natural I,an-guage Understanding: Annual Report.
TR 4274, Bolt,Beranek & Newman, Cambridge, MA.361
