Natura lPane lLanguage In ter faces  - Ready  for Commerc ia l  Success?Wolfgang Wahl~tor (cha i r )Department of  Computer SeiencoUn ivers i ty  of Saarbrfickon1} 6600 Saarbrficken 11Fed.
Rep. of  GermanyPane l i s ts :  aalnm G. Carbone\] l ,  Gary G.
Hendri?, Marry TnnnantThe goal of this panel is to evaluate three natural anguage interfaces which were introduced to the commercial market in1985 (cf.
Carnegie Group 1985, Kamins 1985, Texas Instruments 1985) and to >'elate them to current research in cornputational linguistics.
Each of the commercial systems elec-ted as a starting point for the discussion (see Wahlsler 1986for a functional comparision) was developed by a well-knownscientist with considerable research experience in NL proces-sing: Language Craft TM by Carnegie Group (designed undertile direction of.\].
Carboncll), NLMenu by Texas Instruments(designed untler the direclion of II.
Tennant), and Q & A TMby Symamec (designed under the direction of G. Hendrix).This discussion colnplements a panel at COL ING 84- (seeSparck Jones et al 1984), which debated the proposition thatdatabase query is no longer a paradigmatic problem tor com-putational linguistics.A commercial success ofNI ,  imerfaces could have a great valueto our tield.
When thousanct~ of users appreciate the capabili-ties of NI, interlaces, computational linguists have somethingto be proud of.
The economic interest might push fbrwardthe ne.eded basic research and secure its funding.
For the firsttime in the history of computational linguistics tile large usercomumnities of NL systems old as mass products provide abasis tbr serious empirical research on the dialog behavior ofreal end-users.The discussion may inlluenc.e computational linguistics as abasic science by tbeussing it to actual needs and by pointingout new problems which are typically identified when NL in-terfaces are transle.rred out of research laboratories.I askcd tile panelists to discuss the following questions in par--ticular:I) How successful are the comnmrcial sys|ems?- \]\[low many copies have been sold?- To what extent are they being used on a regular basisby the customers?How much money do they save?
Are there any cost-benefit analyses?Are the systems empirically evaluated in a cmnmer-cial environment?
Which evaluation methodologies areused ?How well do current users adapt to the limitations ofthe syslems?What are the main areas of application?2) Wha| are the most important factors for success o fa  NLinterf?tce:-- the linguistic and conceptual coverage?its robuslness?the degree of portability and transportability?the qualily of tools lbr adapting the systems to a newaltplication?3) Isn't it too early tbr a commercialization f NL systems?4) l)on't  you see the danger that tile customers lose interestin NL processing forever if their ow:rblown expectationscannot be fulfilled by the systems currently available?5) Is it just a tremendous amount of engineering to trans-ff)rm a research system into a commercial product mr is itmuch more (e.g.
new concepts, algorithms, data struc-tures?
)6) How do you see the evolution of tile market for NL in-terfaces?
What are your market forcast hypotheses?7) Should commercial systems be designed for mainframes,powerful AI workstations or personal computers?8) Is it a market advantage if the system is multilingual(e.g.
if there exists not only an English version but alsoa French, German, Spanish and Italian one)?9) What cm'rent research in.computational linguistics andartificial intelligence seems most important tbr improvinglhe quality of the current products?10) Considering the next generation of commercial NL sy-stems, how do you assess the role of- NL generation- cooperative response generationspeech act recognition-- user modeling-hybr id  representation languages (e.g.
KL -TWO,KRYPTON)- new types of grammars (e.g.
FUG, GPSG, LFG,TAG)- multimedia communication (e.g.
luixtures of text, gra-ph ics ,  gestural input).ReferencesCarnegie Group (1985): The Language Craft TM Manual.
Re-lease 2.0.
Pittsburgh, i A.Kamins, S. (1985): Instruclion Manua lQ&A.
Version 1.0.\])oeunnent No.
: 1-001.
Cupertino: Symantec.Sparck Jones, K., Bates, M., Carbonell, J .G.
,  Fliekinger, D.,McKeown, K.R.
(1984.
): Natural Language and Data-bases, Again.
In: Proc.
of COL ING 84, Stanford, CA.,p.
182-193Texas Instruments (1985): Natural Language Menu User'sGuide.
Digital Systems Group, Dallas, Texas.Wahlster, W. (1986): The Role of Natural Language in Ad-vanced Knowledge-Based Systems.
In: Winter, H.
led.
):Artificial Intelligc,~Pe and Man-Machine Systems.
(Lec-ture Notes in Control and Information Sciences, VoI.
80),Berlin, tIeidelberg , New York, Tokyo: Springer, p. 62-83161
