Domain Dependent Natural Language UnderstandingKlaus Heje MunchDept.
of Computer ScienceTechnical University of DenmarkDK-2800 Lyngby, DenmarkA natural anguage understanding system for a restricteddomain of discourse - thermodynamic exercises at an intro-ductory level - is presented.
The system transforms textsinto a formal meaning representation language based on cases.The semantical interpretation f sentences and phrases is con-trolled by case frames formulated around verbs and surfacegrammatical roles in noun phrases.
During the semanticalinterpretation of a text, semantic constraints may be im-posed on elements of the text.
Each sentence is analysedwith respect o context making the system capable of solvinganaphoric references uch as definite descriptions, pronounsand elliptic constructions.The system has been implemented and succesfully testedon a selection of exercises.1 In t roduct ionThis paper describes a natural language understanding sys-tem for the domain of naive thermodynamics.
The systemtransforms exercises formulated in (a subset of) Danish to asomewhat "adhoc" chosen meaning representation language.Given the representation f an exercise, a problem solver shalldeduce its solution in a subsequent computation.The weakest demand on tim system is that it transformstexts into representations wlfich are "equivalent" to the texts.The ultimate demand on the system and the problem solveris of course that exercises are solved correctly.The system consists of three parts dealing with respec-tively morphology, syntax and semantics.
The morphologicaland syntactical analyses are domain independent and onlyrelated to the natural language.
The semantical analysis isdependent on both the natural anguage and the specific do-main.
During the semantical nalysis of an exercise, syntacticstructures are transformed into a set of logical propositionsarranged as (implicitly) in the exercise.
After having com-pleted the semantical analysis, a language independent rep-resentation exists.
The semantic omponent does not includean inferential mechanism for deducing the progress in ther-modynamic experiments.
Therefore, it may regard a text asbeing ambiguous.
For instance, it may not be possible to de-termine the referent of an anaphora unambiguously withoutconsidering common sense reasoning.
However, such ambigu-ities will be solved by the problem solver, which uses domain-dependent knowledge as well as commonsense knowledge (seee.g.
(Hobbs, Moore 1985)), and operates w i than  interval-based representation f time (Allen 1984).This paper considers only the semantical interpretation ofsentences.
The semantical analysis is based on a composi-tional principle similar to the one used by Katz and Fodor(1963).
It claims that the semantical interpretation of a sen-tence is obtained by replacing its words or phrases with theirsemantic representations and combining these according tothe syntactic structure of the sentence as well as the con-text.
The interpretation is controlled by a case grammar,which consists of case frames.
The case frames relate syntac-tic structures to a case system and place semantic onstraintson their constituents.
In examining if constraints are fulfilledduring the analysis, a static worldknowledge is used.
Themost important component of the worldknowledge is an is-ahierarchy which organizes all concepts in the dogmin of dis-course.
The worldknowledge is called "static", since it doesnot contain "dynamic" information such as implications orpreconditions of actions.During the semantical interpretation, the context in a textis considered.
Connections between elements of the text isestablished by resolving anaphoras due to definite nouns andpronouns.
The system resolves ellipses too.2 Mean ing  Format ion  in SentencesSemantically, a text is regarded as a specification (denotation)of a series of propositions.
In natural anguages, propositionscan be expressed not only by sentences, but also by othersyntactic structures uch as noun groups, infinitive phrasesand embedded sentences.
Thus a single sentence may expressseveral propositions.
The goal in understanding a text is toextract its propositions and specify them in a formal anguage.A sentence can be characterized as the basic independentstructure in the language.
Relating language to formal logic,the meaning of a sentence can be described by a predicatewhich is identified by the head verb of the sentence.
Thearguments of the predicate are denoted by the constituentsof the sentence.
Such a representation is the basis for bothsystemic (Winograd 1983), c&se (Fillmore 1968) and lexical-functional (Bresnan 1981) grammars.3 Mean ing  Representat ionThe meaning representation language is based on a case sys-tem (Bruce 1975) inspired by Filhnore's notion of deep cases.Basically, a text is represented by a list of propositions, eachconsisting of a proposition type corresponding to a predicatename, and a list of cases corresponding to the arguments ofthe predicate.
Contradictory to Fillmore's notion, propositiontypes are not verbs, but abstract concepts defined in the caseframes of a case grammar.
Furthermore, cases show seman-tic relationships between proposition types and abstract con-cepts.
The case system (set of cases) is chosen in a somewhatadhoc way.
The cases, which are supposed to be necessaryin order to describe the domain of thermodynamic exercises,are included.
The cases and their use are explained below :object object being affected by an action or event,or being described.instr instrument for action.stuff materiaforce the thing or event forcing an action.action action being referred to.attr physical attribute.referent the object being referred to in a description.reason reason for event.direction direction of change.descr description of object.spatiaLloc "spatial ocation", includes a object, whichdescribes a physical ocation, a relation tothe location and a direction (from/to/at).value_loe "value location", as spatial_loc, butincluding a value.temporaLloc "temporal location", includes an indicationof time and a relation to this.260Besides the case system, the meaning representat ion languageincludes elements which make it possible to introduce or de-fine physical objects, to connect or refer to objects, actions orevents, and to relate proposit ions temporally.
The syntax ofthe meaning representat ion language is :Meaning -- Meaning_elem*;Meaning elem ~ obj def(Obj_iden,Context_rel,Obj type) !proposit ion(PropAden,Prop type,Cases);Obj_iden,Prop_iden = identifierContext_rel = refer !
introd;Prop_type = string;Obj_type = stuff obj (string) single_obj (String);Cases = Case*;Case = object (ObjAden) instr(Obj_iden) !action(Prop_iden) attr(str ing) !
.
.
.Notice that  it is possible to reference proposit ions and objectdefinitions through their identifiers.
'Context ret' specifieswhether an object is introduced in the text ( introd) or beingreferred (refer).As an example of the representation language considerthe sentence : "The calorimeter contains 100 g water withthe temperature  50 C ' .
The corresponding representat ion is :obj _def(e,ret~r,single_obj (calorimeter))obj_def(W,introd,stuff_obj (water))proposit ion(1,obj attr_val,<object (W), att r ( temperature) ,value lee(at,equal,50 C)>)proposit ion(2,contain,<objeet(C),  referent(W)>)Ilere the calorimeter and the water are defined as physicalobjects and denoted by the identifiers C and W respectively.The cMorimeter is in definite form, it is referring, and the ref-erent cannot be found.
The proposit ion type "obj_attr_val"relates an att r ibute of an object to a value or quantity.
Fi-nally, the proposit ion type "contain" relates an object, whichcontains, to an object which is contained.4 Re la t ing  Syntax  to  CasesThe transformat ion from syntactic structures to the mean-ing representat ion language is controlled by a case grammar.The case grammar  specifies the correspondence between syn-tactic representations, based on sm'face grammatical  roles oft)hrases and sentences, and case representations.The semanl;i(:al analysis of a sentence is based on its headverb, while the analysis of a noun group is be based on thehead noun and also on adjective descriptors, genitive deter-miners and preposit ional phrases.
For each head verb, headnoun, etc,, tile case granlmat' contains a case frame.
A caseframe consists of the following parts : cases, selection, con-straints,  extract and presence.
The "cases-part" states whata phrase shall be transformed into by means of proposit iontypes and cases.
The "selections" relate elements in the caseframe to syntactic constituents.
"ConstrMnts" contain se-mantic constraints on elements of the case frame.
"Extract"makes it possible to extract elements fi'om compound,  orcomplex, semantic elements, and finally, "presence" specifieswhether eonstiLuents are mandatory,  elliptic or optional.As an example of a ease frame consider the verb to "rise"in combinat ion with "temperature" or any other physical  at-tr ibute.
Some examples o f  sentences contannng rise are"The temperature rises 5 degrees""The temperature of the liquid rises from 50 to 55 degrees""The temperature rises"Observe that  in the first sentence the object with the men-tioned temperature is denoted by an elliptic reference.
In theanalysis of the sentence, it has to be found using the context,i.e.
theprev ious  entences.
A case frame for "rise" is shownbelow.
Here the selections "subject", "sdir" and "prep" referrespectively to the subject, the direct object and preposit ionalphrases in a sentence.
The constraint 'is_a(x,y)' means that xis of type y according to the taxonomy.
'has_attr(o,at) '  meansthat  the object o has the att r ibute at.rise : proposit ion etxangecases : object(O), attr(At) ,  valueAoc(to,equal,Rv),value_lee (from,equal,Sv),valueAoc (relative,equal,Gv).selection : subjeet(Subj) ,  sd i r (nv) ,prep(from,Sv), prep(to,Cv),  prep(with,Rv).constraints is_a(At,physical attr ibute),is._a(O,physical object),has_attr (O , i t )extract ex_at t r (Snbj , i t ) ,  ex_obj (Subj,O).presence obl igatory(At),  ell iptic(O),optional(Sv), opt ional(Gv),  optional(R.v).Notice that  the subject, which besides being a compoundstructure consisting of an attr ibute and an object, may alter-natively take form of an att r ibute only (because O is ellipsed).The const ituents of the subject are extracted by the ex attrand ex_obj predicates.The semantical analysis of a syntactic structure is carriedout in a mixed bot tom up - top down way.
The formationof the meaning of a phrase progresses bot tom up, while thecontrol of its const ituents (selectkm of them and constraintson them) progresses top down.
Cenerally, when a case fl'ameis applied in the analysis of a phrase, the elements speci-fied in the selection-part are matched with the const ituentsof the phrase.
If an element has the same syntactical roleas a constituent,  the const i tuent is analysed, while possibleconstraints are imposed on it.
The result of the analysis isa list of proposit ions derived fl'oln the phrase as well as thesemantic element which the phrase denotes.To i l lustrate the semantical analysis consider the sentence :"the liquid in the container is transferred to the calorimeter".Suppose the sentence is analysed in isolation, so that  the def-inite descriptions cannot be solved.
The case frames neededto analyse the sentence are :transfer : proposit ion transfercases : object(O), spatial_lee(goal,in,G)selection sdir(O), prep(to,G).constraints : is_a(O,physical object), is_a(G,contai~ter).presence obl igatory(O),  ell iptic(G).calorimeter : object(calorimeter).container object(container).liquid stuff(liquid).in : proposit ion containcases : object(O), referent0~ )selection head(R),  prep(in,O)constraints : is a(O,container),  is_.a(l~,physical object)presence : obl igatory(O), obl igatory(R).The syntactic structure of the sentence can be depicted as atree where each node is numbered :sentence, iverb.2 sdir.3 sent ~f.4transfer NHDet.5 Head.6 nh_pf .
.
_ .the  l iqu idPF  to  NHprep .
lO  p f_ke .
l t  Det .12 Head.13in NH the calorimeterDet.t~4 ~ead.t5the containerThe sentence analysis selects the case frame for the verb"transfer".
The case frame claims the mandatory  occureneeof a direct object O which must  be a physical object.
Thus O261matches by i{,s syntactical role the constituent identified bynode 3.
When analysing the corresponding noun group, thecase frame for the head noun "liquid" is used at first.
Theconstraint of the noun group (being a physical object) is full-filled, thus the analysis proceeds.
The determiner combinedwith the head noun determines the context dependency ofthe liquid as referring.
Since the referent cammt be found, anobject definition is generated, though marking the object asreferring.The prepositional phrase of the noun group is analysed byfirst selecting the case frame for the preposition "in".
In thisframe, it is claimed that the head noun must be a physicalobject.
This is already known to be true.
Furthermore, thehead of the prepositional phrase must specify an object in theclass "container".
Thereafter the container is defined as anobject and a proposition of type "contain" is generated.
Theresult of the analysis of the noun group is the object identifierdenoting the liquid and the "contain" - proposition.The rest of the analysis will not be commented.
The rep-resentation of the sentence is :obj_def(L, refer,stuff_obj(liquid)),obj_def(Co,refer,single_obj (container)),proposition(1,contain,<object (Co), referent(L)>),obj_def(C a,refer,single_obj (calorimeter)),proposition(2,transfer,<object (m),spatial_loc(goal,in,Ca)>).5 Context -Dependent  AnalysisThe context-dependent a alysis covers resolution of the mostimportant ypes of anaphoric references.
The system resolvesthe following types of references in a text : identic, synony-mous, pronominal, adverbial, modifying and some of the el-liptic references.
Examples of these references are :Identic a ca lor imeter  contains helium, and theca lor imeter  ...Synonymous a calorimeter contains hel ium, and the gasPronomial a' ca lor imeter  contains helium, and it ...Adverbial in the ca lor imeter  is gas, and there isalso ...Modifying the calorimeter is heated to 50 C, and theheat ing ...Elliptic the calorimeter contains gas and the bucket(contains) water.Elliptic a ca lor imeter  contains water .
Thetemperature (in the ca lor imeter  or of thewater)  is 50 C.During the semantical analysis, the references are resolvedas soon as they are met.
In order to be able to do this, theleftmost context of a text must be reachable when analysing aphrase.
The leftmost context is all propositions derived fromthe text so far.The system uses no special features for delimiting thescope of referred objects.
When a reference is to be solved,the objects and events specified in the leftmost context areexamined.
An object or event, which fullfills the constraintsspecified in the case frame and which matches possible syn-tactic features (gender and number), is claimed to be thetoken referred to.
The resolution of synonymous references(for instance of gas in : "A container contains llelium, andthe gas ... ") uses the is-a hierarchy.6 ExampleThe following exercise is considered :"A cupper calorimeter with the heatcapacity 75 J /K  con-.tains 300 g t)araflln.
The temperature i,~ 18 C. A cupper blockwith the mass 100 g is heated to I00 C, whereupon it is trans-ferred to the calorimeter~ where the temperature becomes 22C.
The specific heat of eupper is 337 :l/kg*K. i,'ind the ~zpecific~62heat of paraffin.
"The system generates the representation shown below.The propositions are separated into time - dependent andtime - independent propositions, the former are related tem-porally.object specifications :1. obj_def(C,calorimeter)2. obj_def(P,stuff_obj (paraffin))3. obj_def(L,block}constant attributes :4. consist_of(object(C),stuff(cupper))5. obj_attr=val(object( C),attr(heatcapacity),quant(75,J /K)  )6. obj _attr _val(object (P),attr (mass) ,quant (300,g))7. consist _of(object (L) ,stuff(cupper))8. obj_attr_val(object (L),attr (mass),quant (100,g))9. obj_attr _val(stuff(cupper),attr (spec_heat),quant (387,J/kg* K) )10. obj_attr _val(object (P) ,attr (spec_heat),quant (question))time-dependent propositions :11. contain(object (C),referent (P))12. obj_attr _val(sp_loc (at,in,C),attr(temperature) ,quant (18,C))13. heat (object (L),value_loc(to,equal,quant (100,C))14. block_transfer (object (L) ,sp_loc (goal,in,C))15. obj_attr_val(sp_loc(at,in,C),attr (temperature),quant (22,C))Some points worth of noticing are the resolution of the el-lipsed object (location) in the second sentence of the exercise(proposition 12) and the resolution of the identic reference(the calorimeter) as well as of the pronoun (it) in the thirdsentence (proposition 14).7 Conclus ionThe system described in this paper transforms thermodynam-ical exercises expressed in Danish into a formal meaning rep-resentation language.
In order to accomplish this, morphol-ogy, syntax and semantics are considered.
Most importantis the application of the case grammar formalism, in whichsemantic onstraints can be imposed on phrases, causing am-biguities in a text to be removed.
The case grammar havea clear, well-defined structure and is easy to extend, also toother domains.For varied selections of thermodynamical exercises, thesystem has derived correct meaning representations.
Thus thegoal has been accomplished.
Currently, the problem solver isunder development.ReferencesAllen, J. F. 1984 Towards a General Theory of Action andTime.
Artificial Intelligence 23: 123-154.Bresnan, J.
1981 An Approach to Universal Grammar.
Cog-nition 10: 39-52.Bruce, B.
1975 Case Systems for Natural Languages.
Artifi-cial Intelligence 6: 327-360.Fillmore, C. 1968 Tile Case for Case.
In: Bach~ E. andHarms, R., Universals in Linguistic Theory.
tlolt, Rinehartand Winston, New York.Hobbs, J. R. and Moore, R. C.
(eds.)
1985 Formal Theoriesof the Commonsense World.
Ablex, Norfolk, New Jersey.Katz, ,/.
j .
and Fodor, J.
A.
1963 The Structure of a Seman-tic Theory.
Language 39: 1704210.Winograd, T. 1983 Language as a Cognitiw~ Process.Addison-Wesley, Reading, Mas~.
