TESTING THE PROJECTIVITY HYPOTHESISVladimir PericlievMathematical Linguistics DptInstitute of Mathematics with Cemp Centrelll3 Sofia, bl.8, BULGARIAIlarion IlarionovMathematics DptHigher Inst of Eng & BuildingSofia, BULGARIAABSTRACTThe empirical validity of the projeetivity hypothesisfor Bulgarian is tested.
It is shown that the justi-fication of the hypothesis presented for other lan-guages suffers serious methodological deficiencies.Our automated testing, designed to evade such defi-ciencies~ yielded results falsifying the hypothesisfor Bulgarian: the non-projective constructions stu-died were in fact grammatical rather than ungrammati-cal, as implied by the projeetivity thesis.
Despitethis, the projectivity/non-projectivity distinctionitself has to be retained in Bulgarian syntax and,with some provisions, in the systems for automaticprocessing as well.1 THE PROJECTIVIrY HYPOTHESISProjectivity is word order constraint in depen-dency grammars, which is analogous to continuous con-stituency within phrase-structure systems.
In a pro-jective sentence, between two words connected by adependency arc only such words can be positionedwhich are governed (directly or indirectly) by one ofthese words.
Or, in other words, a sentence is pro-jective in case there are no intersections betweenarcs and projections in its dependency tree diagram.Thus, for instance, sentence (i) is projective, whe-reas sentence (2) is non-projective:He took the book He the took bookWe might note that sentence (2) is ungrammatical.The projectivity hypothesis, originally propoundedby Lecerf (of.
e.g.
Lecerf 1960) and later gainingwide acceptence, amounts to the following: Naturallanguages are projective in the sense that the non-projective constructions in them are ungrammatical.And this has an important consequence.
Thus, takinginto account the self-evident fact that ungrammaticalphrases do not occur in texts, in the processing oftexts we can rule out from consideration the non-pro-jective parses on the basis of ungrammatioslity.
Pro-jectivity thus serves as a filtering device, shownfurther to be of extremely powerful nature (op.oit.
).To estimate the usefulness of the projectivity hy-pothesis for each particular language requires theconduct of extensive empirical testings.
On the basisof statistical accounts from inspection of textsFrench was reported by Leoerf to be almost lO0.
"~ pro-jective.
The same would be true, according to him,for other languages like German, Italian, Dutch etc.,although the material available Cat the time) was notsufficient for statistical processing.
English is al-so believed to be a projective language: in 30 000phrases only two non-projective ones were found (Har-per and Hays 1959); in Kareva (1965) somewhat diffe-rent, but still result in the same vein was obtained(using different notation): from lO 000 phrases ofconnected text 620 were found to be non-projective.Such investigations can be seen to be bound toge-ther by their a r ~ h  to the testing of the pro-jectivity hypothesis: texts are explored and statis-tical accounts are made of the correlation betweenprojective and non-projective phrases.
The very rareoccurrence in such texts of non-projective sentencesis interpreted as a confirming evidence.
Such studiesrepresent what we shall furtheron refer to as "thetextual approach to the testing of the projeotivityhypothesis" (or simply, "the textual approach").2 DEFICIENCIES OF THE TEXTUAL APPROACHThe textual approach, in addition to the fact thatit involves the tedious task of inspection of thousa-nds of sentences, suffers serious methodologicalshortcomingswhich can be summarized as follows:(i) Irrelevancz of data.
The data the textual app-roach presents in justification of the hypothesis is,strictly speaking, irrelevant.
Knowing that non-pro-jective phrases do not occur in texts, naturally,gives us no formal right to infer that such phrasesare ungrammatical as well.
(ii) I~is_.u~fi_c~en_.c~ of data.
The data provided bythis approach is insufficient to justify even a __wea-ker claim to the effect that non-projective structur-es do not occur in texts.
To justify this latterclaim further steps in addition to direct inspectionof certain (immaterially how large) corpora of textsshould be made.
In particular, a justifiable justifi-cation would have to involve both further factualconfirmation (e.g.
demonstration that predictionsfrom the hypothesis in fact comply with actual data)and "systematic" confirmation (demonstration that thehypothesis is consistent with other linguistic prin-ciples, facts, etc.)
(of.
e.g.
Baths 19Bl: Ch.9; al-so ?
3 below).
(iii) Heuristic futility.
The textual approach isheuristically futile in the sense that, being confi-ned to a mere registration of non-projective constru-ctions within specific texts, we have no way of know-ing whether the structures encountered (if some areat all encountered) are all  the non-projective struc-tures in a given language, and if not, how many moreare there, and which exactly they are.3 TESTING THE PROOECTIVITY HYPOTHESIS FOR BULGARIANThe considerations given in ?
2 seriously under-mine the credulousness of the results obtained forother languages following the textual approach.
Whatwas important for our investigation however was toevade these methodological deficiencies in the studyof Bulgarian.
Accordingly, we had to address nottexts, but rather what we had to do was to generateall logically admissible non-projective structures56in Bulgarian, and then inspect them for grammatiea-lity.It was appropriate to aeeomplieh our testing intwo phases: preliminar~ (manual) ~ ,  in whiehthe plausibility of the prejeotivity hypothesis wasto be estimated for the Bulgarian language, andtestinq ~i4ezr (automated tsstinA), in which thenon-projective structures in Bulgarian were to beautomatically generated, and then checked for gra-mmatieality/ungrammaticality.3.1 Preliminary testingThe preliminary (manual) testing comprised:(i) factual testing, and (ii) systematic testing(c f .
?
z ( i i ) ) .In the factual testing it was inspected whethercertain predictions from the projectivity hypothesisare consistent with actual data.
l hat is, we takean arbitrery non-projective situation, say, a situa-tion of the form:(3) .
/ .X1 X2 X3and then, subat i tut ing X1, X2, and X3 with approp-r ia te  word classea, check whether the resultant con-struction is well-formed in Bulgarian or not.In the systematic testing it was inspected whe-ther the projectivity hypothesis in fact fits inwith other known word order principles, rules, etc.
(of univers~ql or language-specific nature).By way of illustration, consider the generallyrecognized universal principle: In all languagesthere exist classes of words occupying a rigidlyfixed position in the sentence (the particular wordsand positions of course being language-specific).
Oninspection, this prineiple turns out to contradictthe projectivity hypothesis.
This is so, since suchsituations may occur in which this fixed position ofcertain words leads to non-projeetivity.
Thus, onemanifestation of this principle in Bulgarian syntaxia reflected in the fact that the verb sam 'be' ne-ver occurs in sentence-initial or eentenee-final po-sition.
Now, assume that we have a three-word sen-tence containing be in which moreover: (a) be go-verna another word, X2, X2 being positioned to theleft or right of be; and (b) X2 governs X3, X3 beingobligatorily positioned to the right of X2.
Thisbeing the ease, three structures are theoreticallyadmissible, two projective and one non-projective:(4) ~ (5) .
(6).~_ .~ .
.
.
.
.~  .~ '?
,  ~.~.
~ _ ~ ,X2 X3 be be X2 X3 X2 be X3However, structures (4) and (5) w i l l  be ungrammati-eel,  as predicted by the pr inc ip le  mentioned (noticethe posi t ion of be).
This la t te r  fact ,  in turn, pre-d icts  the grammatioality of the non-projectivestructure (6) (knowing of course that there is no-thing to forbid in Bulgarian the occurrence of three-word sentences containing be).
As another i l l us t ra -t ion ,  th is  mode of test ing would have to lead to thediscovery of non-pro jec t iv i t ies  of the type: "A j~_~-oedure is discussed whish.
.
. "
in English which aredue to the sentence- in i t ia l  posi t ion of the subjectin the English sentence.In summary, the results obtained from our preli-minary testing showed the implausibility of the hy-pothesis for Bulgarian: we easily found numerous anddiverse kinds of counterexamples to it.
We furthernoticed that the counterexamples belonged, informallyspeaking, to two stylistic layers which could be la-beled a8 stylistieally marked and stylistically un-marked.3.2 Testinq properAs a next step in our investigation, the non-pro-jective constructions in Bulgarian had to be generat-ed, and then assessed for well-formedneas.
More spe-cifically, non-projectivity in triples and quadrupleswas to be examined (in so far aa non-projeotivity inmore than four-words constructions is reducible totriples or quadruples).in triples, there are two possible non-projectivesituations, viz.
(the mirror-images):(7) .
/ "  _~ (a) ------'" .X\].
X2 X3 X3 X2 X1In quadruples,these nan-projective situations are30 in number.
That is, the total number of non-pro=jeetive situations is 32.
The number and content ofconstructions in Bulgarian conforming to these situa-tions will be language-specific, i.e.
it will dependon the specific Bulgarian word classes and the po-ssibilities for their mutual positioning.
E.g.
theconstructions conforming to situation (7) will be theset of all triples X1 X2 X3 such that X2 governs X1,X1 being positioned to the left of X2, and X1 governsX3, X3 being positioned to the riqht of X1.Then, a program was written in BASIC implementedon the Bulgarian microcomputer "Pravetz" (a machinecompatible with Apple 11) which generated the con-structions conforming to the non-projective situa-tions, l he input to the program was a fragment of thedependency grammar for Bulgarian given in Pericliev1983.
In particular, 30 rules were stored, each ruleeoneiting of a pair of word classes, a master and aslave, and their mutual position(s).Fer obvious rea-sons the rules were not arbitrarily chosen, but ra-ther it was required that they be maximally diversein syntactic nature.
That is, they included pairs ofnotional and/or functional words (particles, pro-nouns/adverbs introducing clauses, paired conjunc-tions, duplicating parts of the sentence, etc.).
Thegenerated constructions were then inspected for well-formedness.The results from our experiment may be summarizedas follows.
From about 3\[)0 non-projective construc-tions generated, approximately 15% turned out to beungrammatical.
The remaining part of the construc-tions were grammatical.
As already expected, theycould be classed into two groups according to theirstylistic value: stylistically unmarked and stylis-tically marked constructions.The unmarked constructions, informally speaking,included diverse kinds oi' structures: some questions(with the question particle l i  'do' or with l i toge-thor with a notional questioning word), some excla-matory sentences (with structure of questions), di~57fferent complex sentences Ca word belonging to somesubordinate clause, most often objective and attribu-tive clause, is positioned somewhere in the mainclause), sentences containing clitice (be, short po-ssessive and dative pronouns, etc.
), various constru-ctions with "strongly linked" parts (paired conjun-ctions/particles, duplicating parts, Bulgarian equi-valents of more ... than, such ... that , etc.)
andmany othera~"T'he rati-~"6&tw-6e-~styli-~&lly unmar-ked and stylistically marked constructions wasabout 1:5.4 DISCUSSION OF RESULTSIn principle, a hypothesis, in empirical scien-ces such as linguistics, may be said to be: Ca) ab-solutely true (i.e.
true without exceptions), (b) onthe whole true (i.e.
true, but with certain excep-tions), and (e) false.The projectivity hypothesis would hove been usa-ble as a filtering device (in Bulgarian) if it fellunder cases (a) or (b), ease (b) presupposing fur-ther that there is a list available of all exceptio-ns.
The results obtained however unambiguously classit under case (c).
Indeed, the great majority of non-projective constructions in Bulgarian are well-formedrather than unacceptable, as implied by the hypothe-sis.
This seems to be the only correct conclusion,despite the fact that the results themselves shouldnot be considered as absolutely final, this beingdue to the following circumstances: (1) We did notin fact inspect literally all admissible non-pro-jectivitiea but only those that were obtainable fromthe fragment of grammar stored for the experiment;and (2) the presense/absense of projectivity signi-ficantly depends on the conventions chosen for de-pendency arcs distribution.
Still, our investigationon the whole is to be viewed as sufficiently reliab-le (another experimental testing in which a largergrammar was used end slightly different notationwhere linguistically justified gave similar results).Another point deserves special attention.
Des-pite the fact that non-projective structures in Bul-garian are grammatical, the prevalent part of themare "stylistically marked".
Whatever that means, thelatter circumstance implies that, quite probably,such constructions will not occur in some kinds oftexts at least.
Our chances to pinpoint such textsto a great extent depend on our understanding of theconstructions in question (the label "stylistic mar-kedness" in itself is no great progress in this di-rection).
So we focused our attention on these con-structions, having already completed the experimen-tal testing described.
The preliminary results ofthis latter study were quite intereatingi non-pro-jeetivity in fact turned out to finely describesentences with a special type of logical emphasis inBulgarian, characterized by:(i) presense of both non-projectivity and con-trastive ~tress (CS) (in contrast to other emphaticsentences in Bulgarian, having a CS and "normal",projective word order);(ii) preaense of CS on ,  on one of the words(immaterially which) from the non-projective "inter~val" (an "interval" is constituted by a pair ofwords connected by an arc such that intersects witha projection); the non-projective constructions inthis sense contrast with other emphatic constructionswith projective word order , which can take a CS on58on, word in them;(iii) having synonymous constructions of twotypes: with a projective word order and CS, or suchanalogous to the English cleft sentences ("It is hewho ..., where the underlined words are connected byan----are); perhaps, not by coincidence the latter con-structione, both in Bulgarian and in English, arenon-projective;(iv) having a relation to the topic-comment dis-tinction; more specifically, one of the words fromthe non-projective interval (immaterially which) isnecessarily the comment of the sentence (though, na-turally, not each comment requires non-projeetivity).These findings rehabilitate the projectivity//non-projectivity distinction (thogh not the hypothe-sis) for Bulgarian syntactic the~:  non-projectivi-ty happens to be the word order part of s very gene-ral mechanism for formation of sentences with lo~gical emphasis.
Thus, though Bulgarian is generallycharacterized as a free word order language, senten-ces with logical emphasis are not with a "free",but rather with a precisely specified word ordercoinciding with non-projectivity.As to the need to retain the above distinctionin syntactic processors of Bulgarian, things willbe determined by the concrete applied goals: somesmall applications can certainly ignore non-projec-tive structures (their emphatic part), whereas ro-bust systems cannot do without them.
That is, theformer systems would have to keep the distinctionand the latter reject it.
Still, it will not be sur-prising if the distinction might be usefully acco-modated even in the latter case.
However, this needsfurther investigations, mostly in the line of textu-al linguistics: the study of context, topic/comment,etc.
One is reminded in this train of thought ofthe remark of the philosopher K. Popper to theeffect that a scientific investigation begins andends with problems.REFERENCESBotha R., 1981, The Conduct of Linquia_tic I__nn-u q~,  Mouton: The Hague.Harper K. and D. Hays, 1959, The use of machinesin the construction of a grammar and computer prog-ram for structural analysis, Rapport UNESCO.Kareva N.~ 1965, A classification of non-projec-tive constructions, Scientific ~ Technical Informa-tio___En , No.4 (in Russian).Leeerf Y., 1960, Programme dee conflits, mod&ledes conflits, Tr_aduction automati__2.~, l, No.4?Perioliev V., 1983, ~ ~ i n  Bul~~ a n d  in En l iq~ (Ph.D. Dissertation; in Bul-garian)~
