Acquisition of Kowledge Data by Analyzing Natural LanguageYasuhito TanakaHimeji CollegeI-\]-12 Shinzaike HonmachiHimeji City Hyogoken670 JAPANSho YoshidaKyushu University6-10-I Hakozaki I{igashikuFukuoka City Fukuokaken812 JAPANI.
IntroductionAutomatic identification of homonyms in kana-to-kanji conversions systems and of multivocal words inmachine translation systems cannot be sufficientlyimplemented by the mere combination of grammer andword dictionaries.
This calls for a new concept ofknowledge data.
What the new knowledge data is andhow it can be acquired are mentioned in the paper.In natural language research, active discussion hasbeen make within the framework of knowledge andsamples of knowledge.2.
Phases of Natural Language Study and KnowledgeData\[phase 1\]In the initial phase when natural language hadnot been fully clarifiedj the authors made an attemptto analyze the language with the help of word dic-tionaries and grammar alone, and to build a newsystem from the results.
We, however, encountered agreat number of homonyms in kana-to-kanji conversion,as well as multivocal words and other problems inmachine translation.
This was because the grammarand dictionaries were too simple.
In other words,w i + /T(~i)where ~i is a word and /T is a conversion system.\[phase 2\]There are some possible means for solving theproblems encountered in Phase i.
They include thefollowing: analyze the word frequency, limit thenumber of words in use, limit the contents of thewords in use, limit the fields and limit sentences.This helps remove, or at least minimize, homonyms,multivoeal words and ambiguities.
A system withlimitations, however, involves too many difficultiesto be readily accepted.\[phase 3\]In vocabulary, no words are used independently.One should define and use words by clarifying thecharacteristics, coverage and conditions of words.This may be expressed as follows:~i I Pi I ' Pi2 'Pi~ ' ..... ' Pin?
/T(~i I Pil 'Pi2 .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Pin ) =yjwhere ~i is a word; and Pil' Pi2' ..... ' Pin are thelimitations of ~i" The set of Pil' Pi2 ~ ..... ' Pinshould be low in number and simple.Different approaches have already been proposedas to what is necessary for clarifying the conditionsfor the coverage of words in Phase 3.
Some examplesare semantic markers, semantic categories and thesau-rus.
However, the author~ put emphasis on the rela-tionship of words, though recognizing such otherforms of approach.\[Knowledge Obtained from Words\]Words and sentences provide knowledge shown inTable I, from simple to complicated in order.
Howmuch of them are usable as dictionaries (books)?How much are usable as machine-readable dictionaries?In Table I, machine-readable dictionaries havealready been established for I.
"Word-relatedAttributes".
Classified vocabulary lists have beenprepared for Thesaurus Structure in 2~ but there isalmost nothing for the other attributes.Therefore, an attempt to build a sophisticatedsystem would be unsuccessful if no basic knowledgedata is available.448Table I.
Knowledge Obtained from Words\] Word-Related Attributes1.1 Word AttributesWords, parts of speech, pronunciation, accentand kana representation1.2 Long Unit Words and Technical Terms2 Word-to-Word Attributes (1) (Preconditions)2.1 Broader/Narrower Rank Relationship (ThesaurusStructure)2.2 Antonyms and Negatives2.3 Partial/Whole Relationship2.4 Sequential Relationship2.5 Comparative Relationship (size, height)3 Word-to-Word Attributes (2) (Preconditions)3.\] Case Relationship3.2 Relationship Based on the Synchronism ofSentence Components3.3 Idiomatic Expressions4 Word-to-Word Attributes (3) (Preconditions)4.1 Association-Based Relationship5 Sentence Relationship5.\] Sentence-to-Word Relationship5.2 Sentence-to-Sentence Linkage3.
Is it Possible to Define Word Coverage andConditions?Since every word may be linked with an infinitenumber of words, one may wonder if it is impossibleto define word coverage and conditions.
It wouldalso take a great deal of time and trouble to examineall the words that are almost infinite in number.If, however, one actually examines some of tlle words,we will fine that every word is linked with a limitednumber of words.Table 2.
Each Word is Linked witha Limited Number of Words001 Denwa o kakeru 0\]8 Denwa o migaku002 Denwa o kiru 0\]9 Denwa o ukeru003 Denwa o mochiageru 020 Denwa o tochosuru004 Denwa o kowasu 02l Denwa o kakenaosu005 Denwa o nigiru 022 Denwa o motsu006 Denwa o motsu 023 Denwa o motaseru007 Denwa o kairyosuru 024 Denwa o kiku008 Denwa o tsukuru 025 Denwa ga naru009 Denwa o se isakusuru 026 Denwa o tsutaeru0\]0 Denwa o kumitateru 027 Denwa de hanasu0;I Denwa o kaisetsusuru 028 Denwa de renrakusuru012 Denwa o hiku 029 Denwa ni deru013 Denwa o tekkyosuru 030 Denwa no koe014 Denwa o uru 03\] Denwa no buhin015 Denwa o hanbaisuru 032 Denwa no kane016 Denwa o kau 033 Denwa no ryokin017 Denwa o konyusuru 034 Denwa no beruoo ,  o ?
i , , , , , o ?
o , , ?Take the word, "denwa" (meaning telephone inEnglish) as example, lit has a limited number ofcharacteristics such as a means of communication, asubstance, a place, and so on.
The function as ameans of eo~imnication and the characteristics of tiletelephone are unique to the telephone.In this particular meaning, it is a simple andfinite task to count the different relationshipsbetween words.
It is, however, extremely difficultto count the word-to-word relationships for thegeneral meanings such as a substance and a place.However, it is possible to organize the majorrelationships without much effort.The only approach would be to tabulate the wordshaving peculiar relationship to specific words andthe relationship between specific words and words ofhigh usage frequency, and thus use system-presetdefaults for other words.Such words as "takai" (meaning high) and"utsukushii" (meaning beautiful) are used frequently.In some cases, therefore, it is difficult to deter-mine the coverage and conditions of individual words.Such cases must include general grammar and the mean-ing of words most frequently used in "takai" and"utsukushii" must be defined in the word-to-wordrelationships together with the conditions of anyspecial meanings of high and beautiful.
Words oflow frequency and high frequency are dependent onindividual rules (conditions based on word-to-wordrelationship) and general grammar.4, Aquis i t ion of Knowledge data4-1 Method by extract ing and segmenting Kanji str ingsAuthors and S. Mizutani of Tokyo Women's ChristianCollege mechanically extracted the four-characterkanji strings from some JICST abstract files, ex-tracted meaningful concept co~)inations from them~and classified them into 45 categories.
Thus, afterexaming 78,000 four character kanji strings, 28,000different kinds of knowledge data was obtained from32,000 types of kanji strings in net.
This approachis promising because it allows easy expansion inquantity and consists mainly of mechanical processing.In addition, an attempt to reorganize a total of887,000 data, 200,000 in net, is under way.
Anatten~t to apply the same idea to the three and fivecharacter kanji strings is also being made.449{Example\]T~/~ Pv @:~.
~ T~Pv  ~-  ?
~J~T ga/o Pv kaicho-jinin Tn iyor iPv  shaahin-hantei4-2 Aquisition of knowledge data based on word-to-word synchronismIn this ease, Japanese sentences should beanalyzed to extract connections and obrain knowledgedata.
Analysis, however, takes a great deal of timeand involves ambiguity.
This suggests an approachwhich simply extracts independent words handles them,if present in the same sentences, as candidates forknowledge data because of mutual relation, andextracts meaningful knowledge data based on frequencyand manual procedure.\[Example \]A boy throws a ball.boy throws b ~iI throws boy ballTo extract such re~ .ships and reorganize themsequentially.4-3 Aquisition of knowledge by syntax analysisThis is a method which analyzes the sentencesthat are input with word dictionaries and grammar,builds syntax element&~ extracts connections fromthem, and thus, extracts knowledge data.
Thismethod is theoretically pertinent but not practicalbecause it leaves the problem of a tremendous in-creasing number of syntax trees.
It would be veryeffective if a great amount of knowledge data wereavailable and some of the ambiguities from syntaxanalysis were reduced.
Since, in Japanese sentences,long-unit terms are used as they are, it is alsonecessary to sub-categorize them automatically.Otherwise, a variety of knowledge data would resultand it would be troublesome to systematize knowledgedata.XX daigaku (university) , XY da igaku~% daigakugeneral terms basic concept termThis sort of concept was presented by some manufac-turers engaged in the research and development ofmachine translation.
It is however only in theplanning stage.
There has been no news reporting450that knowledge data is effectively available.Fig.
2.
Method of Obtaining Knowledgeby Syntax Analysisl lnput Japanese\[ sentences \] - F~educe  Build a~nal Reduce amblgultles !\ ] ~ i e s ~ " "  trees ysis ~!o~nla t l  'It .......Inspect obtained\]knowledge "\]5.
Applications of Knowledge Data(I) To develop high quality Japanese wordprocessors.
(2) To improve the quality of machine translation.
(3) To reduce the ambiguities of syntax analysis.
(4) To apply knowledge data in handwrittencharacter and voice recognition.6.
ConclusionThe systemization, aquisition and constructionof knowledge data are a step towards the next jump inJapanese processing systems.
Indeed, the knowledgedata still has a number of problems to be solved, butprospects for the future are rather bright.References(l) Inanaga & Konishi, Terms for Computer-BasedProcessing of Kana Characters AL 76-39 (inJapanese).
Material of Engineering Workshop ofElectronic Communications Society, 1976(2) Shizuo Mizutani, Overview of Word Structure (inJapanese).
Iwanami Japanese Language Dictionary(3rd Edition), March 1980(3) Masaaki Yamanashi, Meaning and Knowledge Struc-ture: Theoretical Study of Meaning ExpressionModels from Linguistics (in Japanese).Mathematical Science No.
240, June 1983.
