Learning the Space of Word Meaningsfor Information Retrieval SystemsKo ich i  HORI ,  Se inosuke  TODA and  H isash i  YASUNAGANat iona l  Ins t i tu te  of  Japanese  L i te ra ture1 -16-10  Yutakacho  Sh inagawaku Tokyo  142 JapanAbstract :  Several methods  to represent  mean ingsof words have been proposed.
However ,  they arenot  usefu l  for in fo rmat ion  retr ieval sys tems,  becausethey cannot  deal with the entit ies which cannot  beuniversal ly  represented  by symbols .In this paper, we propose a not ion of semanUespace.
Semant ic  space is an Euel idean space wherewords and entit ies are put.
A word is one point  inthe space.
The mean ings  of the word are representedas the spaee conf igurat ion around the word.
Theentit ies that  cannot  be represented  by symbols  canbe identif ied in the space by the location tile entityshou ld  be sett led in.
We also give a learningmechan ism for the space.
We prove theef fect iveness of the proposed method  by an experi-ment  on in format ion  retr ieval  for the study ofJapanese l iterature.1.
In t roduct ionThere  have been no theor ies  of semant ics  we canrely on for bui lding a large in format ion  retr ieval  sys-tem.
The defect in the ex is tent  theor ies  is the lackof explanat ion of the mechan ism for adjust ing to tilereal world the formal  symbol ic  sys tems used in thetheories;  the only tMng they explain is the relationbetween natura l  language and the formal  system.Those theor ies  assume the existence of f ixed andun iversa l  one- to -one  relat ions between the basic ele-ments  in the formal  sys tem and tile entit ies m tilereal world.
For example ,  both Montague  semant icsand the s ituat ion semant ics  assume that  we canrepresent  he dog named Morr is  in the real world assome symbol  like MORRIS  in the formal  sys tem andthat the relat ion between Morr is  and MORRIS  isf ixed and un iversa l  \[3,2\].However ,  when we consider  an in format ionretr ieval  system,  especially in the field of study onl i terature, we encounter  prob lems where the assump-tion does not  hold.
One prob lem is that there areentit ies that  do not  have un iversa l  symbol icrepresentat ion.
For example ,  when a researcher  dis-covers a new ent i ty(or  not ion)  in l i terature andwrites a paper on that entity, the paper must  bestored in the database but  we do not  have appropri-ate key words for that entity.
When tile entitybecomes  well known in later years, it may be named,for example ,  'over there i sm' .
However  at the t imetile entity is d iscovered and does not  have the name'over there i sm' ,  we must  represent  ile entity by afixed set of symbols ,  but  it is not  easy.
Anotherprob lem is that the range of what is meant  by a sym-bol differs among the users  of an in format ionretr ieval  system.
For example,  we cannot  identify thefixed mean ing  of ' romant ic i sm' .
Every user  assumesdi f ferent mean ings  of ' romant ic i sm'  and it is noteasy to control  the meaning.
The latter problem hasbeen cons idered in the studies of fuzzy mean ings ,but,  so far, the fo rmer  prob lem has not  been con-s idered m the studies on semant ics .In order to solve the above ment ioned  prob lems,we propose a not ion of semant ie  space and the learn-ing mechan ism of the space.
Our assumpt ion  is thatthe entit ies which could not  be represented  by afixed set of symbols  can be identif ied in somesemant ic  space by the location the entity shou ld  besett led in.
A l though whether  this assumpt ion  isuniversal ly  valid is problemat ic ,  we have proved thatthis assumpt ion  is effective in in format ion  retr ievalsys tems in the field of studies on l iterature.
Webel ieve that the fieht of l iterature inc ludes essentialp rob lems and has jnst enough complex i ty  to give asev idence for a general  d iscuss ion on semant ics .The semant ic  space is an Eucl idean space whereentit ies and words are scattered.
Tile crucial point ofour idea is that  the axes of the space are not  givenbe forehand but  are generated through learning f rom374tile interact ion between a user' and the iu fo rmat ionretr ieval  sy:?tem.
Since tile axes of t, he space are notgiven beforehand,  the sys tem can adjust  theconfiguration, of tile space for absorb ing  new entities.In chapter  2, we descr ibe in detail the not ion  ofsemant ic  space, expla in ing what  are the entit ies andwords in an in fo rmat ion  retr ieval  sys tem for lit,era-Lure studies,  and we show how the mean ings  ofwords are represented  in the space.In chapter  3, we describe tile learlt ing mechan ismof the semant ic  space.
Genera l ly  speaking,  in tilestudies on mach ine  learning,  it.
has been revea ledthat  the mechan ism for contro l l ing the learning pro-cess is impor tant ;  w i thout  such mect lan isms,  theresu l t  of tile learning becomes  Leo general  or toospecific.
Ill the learning process  proposed  ill thispaper,  we use a user ' s  sat isfact ion as tile eontro l lh lgcr i ter ion for' learning.
The resu l t  of the learning is asemant ic  space that  just  mi r rors  tile world of litera-ture exist ing in the user ' s  mind.
The reason we usethe te rm ' learn ing '  instead of 'acquir ing '  is that  thein fo rmat ion  the sys tem gets is not  tile direct exprcs.-s ion of the mean ings  of words a user' has in his mindbut  indirect and partial i~tformaLion giveu Lhronghthe interact ion between a user  and the in fo rmat ionretr ieval  system.Ill chapter  4, we evaluate Lhe ef fect iveness of theproposed  ideas through all exper iment .
IL is shownLhaL entit ies that  could not  be ret r ieved by conven-t ional key words can be rctrie.ved in our' system.In chapter  5, we refer  to related works  and sum-marize our  cont r ibut ion .2.
Semant ic  SpaceBefore giving fo rmal  d iscuss ion,  we first give anexample  of semant ic  space.
Fig.1 shows  an exampleof semant ic  space for  ph i losophica l  issues ill artificialintel l igence ( * ).We call f ind ill the space shown in F ig .
l ,  thebook  titled "Goede l ,  Escher ,  Bach"  written by Hofs-tadtcr,  as on.e entity.
It has an internal  ID to po intto tire in fo rmat ion  actually s tored ill bibl iogr'aphiealdatabase.
Since whaL is ment ioned  in the book  t~asre lat ion with Goedel ,  l,~,seher and Bach, (~oedeI,F, sch.er and Bach are loeaLed near the book.
It, mustbe noted tilaL tiler'e ha:!~ been no assurance, in previ-ous l ,heories, that Goedel  denotes  the famousmaLhemaLician everyone  knows .
However ,  in oursemant ic  space, Goede l  cannot  be arbitrm'y th ingsbecause tile entity is bounded by other  entit ies,  someof which are po inted to actually s tored  in fo rmat ionill database.
'File book  "(?,oedel Fischer Bach"descr ibes some new not ion .
Since tile not ion  wasnot  known before  the book  was pub l i shed,  tilenot.toll does not  have a un iversa l  name.
We must.read the whole thick book  t,o kn.ow exactly what  thenot ion is.
In other  words,  symbo ls  t,o represent  t.hcnot ion are ectual to the whole book  itself.
However ,we can determine  tile pos i t ion of the uot ion ,  becausewe know the not ion  has re lat ion with who l i sm,redueLionism, mu,  Goedel ,  Es ther ,  l:laeh and so on.q l i l l~du?
l i sm/Descartesoppo,t~ / paradigm~.
..
I monism / ~ s~entlflc,?
/ i r, evolutioni / I i i / i iI / I?
KLihni ~ i i tE / I l lm LI?
wholismre du ctionism ?Goed eti~ EstherGoedel~ Boch~1 Esch~ i tBach  I ~ ii iprocedm-ul9itPro log  Ji i I Iif iideclorativefiIFig.I An exomple ofsemontic spoce(*)Fig.
1 is an explanatory example for the readers who arenot familiar with Japanese literature.
The semantic space madeby our system is for Japanese literature and is authorized by theresearchers in that field.
The real example is given in chapter 4375If the  not ion  gets  a name such  as 'Ho fs tadter i sm'later,  the  name will be put  in the  pos i t ion  jus t  abovethe  book  of Hofs tadter .
Unt i l  then ,  the  not ion  isident i f ied  as Some b lank  space above  the  book .A user  who  wants  to get  a paper  or a book  onthe  same not ion  as one  wr i t ten  in Hofs tadter ' s  bookcan f ind the  not ion  in the  space by look ing  at theconf igurat ion  of the  space.One  might  th ink  that  we can represent  the  newnot ion  in tens iona l ly .
However ,  in pract ical  in fo rma-t ion  re t r ieva l  sys tems,  it is di f f icult  to fix the  set  ofp r imi t ives  for  represent ing  in tens ion .One  might  also th ink  that  ident i f i cat ion  of thelocat ion  is s imi la r  to mak ing  con junct ion  of severa lkeywords  or to us ing  a thesaurus .
However ,  oursemant ic  space has  the prominent  feature ,  wh ich  isabsent  in us ing  keywords  er thesaurus ,  that  a usercan embed his own ideas  of mean ings  in the  space.The  on ly  c r i te r ion  for  determin ing  the  space organi -za t ion  is a user ' s  sat i s fact ion .
Every  user  has  h is  ownspace in our  sys tem,  and  the sys tem des igner  doesn ' tcare whether  one d i rect ion  in tile space denotes  ISAre la t ion  or synonymic  re la t ion  or else.
Even  tile userh imse l f  may  not  know what  k ind  of re la t ion  tile axesrepresent  in the  space.
However ,  as far as the  userhas  h is  own idea about  how one ent i ty  is re la ted  witho ther  ent i t ies ,  the semant ic  space mi r ro rs  ti le wor ldin the  user ' s  mind ,  and  the axes  (maybe in localsubspace)  as a resu l t  p lay the  role of represent ing  there la t ion  between the  ent i t ies  such  as ISA re la t ion ,synonymic  re la t ion ,  tempora l  re la t ion ,  spat ia l  rela-t ion,  or a more  complex  re lat ion.So far,  we have  a l ready descr ibed  the main  ideasof semant ic  space through an example .
Now we givefo rmal  d i scuss ion .The  f irst quest ion  is what  is the  d imens iou  of thespace.
The  d imens ion  of the semant ic  space is notg iven  at f i rst  in pr inc ip le.
The  d imens ion  is deter -mi l led  as a resu l t  of space synthes i s .
Mathemat ica ltheor ies  for  ca lcu lat ing  the d imens ion  are g iven  intheor ies  of mu l t i -d imens iona l  synthes i s  deve loped  inthe  s tud ies  of stat ist ics.
In our  imp lementat ion ,  wel imi t  the  d imens ions  to th ree  for  the  sake of s impl i -c ity of the  sys tem.
Moreover ,  we give one f ixedmean ing  to one  d imens ion ,  that  is, we give tilemean ing  of symbo l i za t ion  to  the  vert ica l  axis.
A t  thebot tom of the  space,  t i t les and  authors  of papers  area r ranged.
A t  the  top of ti le space,  words  wh ichusers  use  are a r ranged.
A t  ti le midd le  of the  space,wr i ters  and  l i terary works  and  some cont ro l lednot ions  such  as "styl ist ics'  are a r ranged.
The  reasonwe named tile vert ica l  ax is  "symbo l i za t ion '  is that  theupper  space is a more  symbo l i zed  wor ld f rom tilev iewpo in t  of a b ib l iograph ica l  database .The  second quest ion  is what  words  and  ent i t iesare.
In our  semant ic  space,  we don ' t  make  c lear dis-t inet ion  among the  te rms "ent i ty ' ,  'no t ion '  and'word ' .
What  ex i s t  ill our  space are, in any  way, jus tsymbo ls .
But  convent iona l ly ,  we call the  symbo lsthat  are used  by users ,  'words ' ;  the  ones  that  are376po in ted  to b ib l iograph ica l  in fo rmat ion'ent i t ies (papers ) ' ,  the  ones  that  denote  wr i ters'ent i t ies (wr i te rs ) ' ,  the  ones  that  denote  works'ent i t ies (works ) ' ,  and  o thers ,  'no t ions ' .
As  for  thesymbo ls  that  denote  wr i ters  and  works ,  they  are con-t ro l led by an  independent ly  deve loped  database  forauthent ica t ion .The  th i rd  quest ion  is what  is mean ing .
Wedef ine the  mean ing  of one  symbo l  as the  spaceconf igurat ion  around the symbo l .
Moreover ,  weextend  tile not ion  of symbo l  to ally po in t  in semant icspace,  so that  we can  t reat  ent i t ies  for  wh ich  a sym-bol  is I~ot ass igned .
Ill o ther  words ,  we ident i fy  asymbo l  with a po in t  in space.
For  example ,  what  thelocat ion for  'Ho fs tadter i sm'  means  is someth ingbetween who l i sm and  reduet ion ism.
You  can under -s tand  what  ' someth ing  between '  in the  prev ious  sei1-tence  means  by look ing  at the  conf igurat ion  of ti lene ighbor  space.
For  example ,  if you  see ne ighbor"Pro log'  between 'dec la ra t ive '  and  'p rocedura l ' ,  youknow that  "someth ing  between '  means  tile same k indof re la t ion  as 'P ro log '  between "dec larat ive '  and  'pro-cedura l ' .
It must  be noted  here  that  tile same sym-bol can be put  in more  than  one locat ion.
Th is  a l lowsa symbo l  to have  severa l  mean ings  depend ing  oncontext .The  last quest ion  on the  semant ic  space is whatthe  d is tance is.
The  measure  of d i s tance  ex is ts  inthe  user ' s  mind .
Th is  is not  e lus ion  but  essence .There  is no  exp la in ing  by what  measures  oneresearcher  on l i terature  judges  that.
one ent i ty  is nearanother  ent i ty .
It is because  each researcher  has  hisown measures  that  or ig inal  papers  can be wr i t ten\ [persona l  d i scuss ion  with some researchers  on l i tera-ture \ ] .
S ince the  semant ic  space is bu i l t  for  eachuser ,  the  papers  of the  authors  who have  a qu i ted i f fe rent  semant ic  wor ld  f rom that  of the  user  maynot  have  "proper"  locat ion in the semant ic  space.Sut  that  causes  little p rob lem,  because  such  papersdo not  in teres t  tile user  much.3.
Learn ing  the SpaceThe  out l ine  for  the  use  and  learn ing  of semant icspace for  an in fo rmat ion  re t r ieva l  sys tem is as fol-lows:1.
A user  g ives  a query  to the  in fo rmat ionre t r ieva l  sys tem.
The  query  is recogn ized  asa sequence  of words.
Pars ing  of the  querysentence  is not  done .
So users  genera l lygive what  they  th ink  are key words  forsearch .
For  example ,  a user  who  wants  apaper  on the in f luence  of Goethe  oilmodern  Japanese  l i terature  asks  the sys tem'Goethe  modern  Japanese  l i te rature ' .2.
The  sys tem searches  in the  semant ic  space forthe  same words  tile user  gave.
If such  wordsare found ,  the  sys tem presents  to the  userthe  ne ighbor  spaces  of the  words.
If no suchwords  are found ,  the  sys tem presents  anoverview of the whole space (main ly  themiddle space, i.e.
the  space for writers andworks).3.
The user  selects some subspaces that attracth im.4.
The system shows the details of tile bot tomspaces of selected subspaces.5.
The user  selects papers f rom among thoseshown in the bot tom spaces.6.
The system re -const ructs  the semant ic  spaceso that  the selected papers in step 5 arelocated in shorter  distance and selected sub-spaces ill step 3 are located in shorter  dis-tance, and then th.e sys tem puts tile querywords in the location above the selectedpapers.We have imp lemented  a sys tem calledML0(Mode l  Learner  vers ion0)  that real izes theabove ment ioned  steps.
Fig.2 shows theconf igurat ion of the system.
The system is writtenin Lisp and P\]\[,/I.Tile moni tor  mon i tors  all tile funct ions  of thesystem.
It has special variables named * incons istentand *attention.qnconsistent is the variable for storing a pair' ofentities for which the distance in the semantic spaceis different f rom the estimated distance.
The estima-tion of the distance is done as follows.
When theinitial semantic space is built, the distanec betweentwo papers is est imated,  with some normal izat ion,  bythe inverse of the number  of occurrences of samewords in tile titles, and the dist.anee between two~ n -m~ .
.
.
.
~user communicat ion~~ - ~T~ "\[ contro l ler  r ' L___ .
.
.
.
J~ ,~i !
Ii "''-- ~ "' userImanipulator ~ r e c ons t r uctor \[i 'T'I( semant ic  )~_ space1: qdalaba se accesscontrol ler \].
.
.
.
'.
f low of contrailFig.
?_ Configuration of the systementit ies (other  than papers) is es t imated  by theinverse of tile number  of the papers which includeboth entit ies in title.
When tile semant ic  space isreconst ructed,  the distance between entit ies which auser  selected is es t imated  to some fixed smal l  value,and the distance between entit ies which the systempresented,  but  only one of which the user  selected,is est imated to some fixed large value.
The mon i to rjudges that a user  is satisf ied if the real distance illsemant ic  space is tile same as the es t imated  istance.When the mon i to r  detects the user ' s  dissatisfaction,i.e.
the difference between the real distance and thees t imated  distance, it registers  in * incons istent  thepair of entit ies which caused the problem.
*attent ion is the w~riable for l imit ing the spacefor considerat ion.
The mon i to r  mon i tors  the spac.eonly ill the scope of *attention.
This improves  theefficiency of search and reconstruct ion.The moni tor  tr iggers the space reconst ructorafter one sess ion of query and answer  if *incon-s istent  has value.The space reconst ructor  plays the role of recon-strucUng the semant ic  space so that the user  can besatisfied.
It uses a heurist ic  procedure for spacereconst ruct ion  ment ioned  below.1.Select one pair f rom * inconsistent .
(In thecur rent  vers ion of tile system,  the pairwhich caused tile largest incons is tency isselected.)2.
Inspect tile density of the ne ighbor  space foreach entity ill the pair, and decide to movetile entity with less dense neighbors .3 .Enumerate  the posiible new posit ions for themov ing  entity.
(Ill the cur rent  vers ion ofthe system,  there are eight new candidateposit ions around another  entity where thedistance between the two entit ies is equal tothe est imated value.
)4.Select f rom among them one posit ion whichcauses  the least new inconsistency.5.Check new incons istenc ies  and register themin * inconsistent.6.Go to step 1.The moni tor  mon i tors  the whole reconst ruct ion  pro-cess and stops the process by raising the th resho ld  tojudge the incons istency when it judges that thereconst rnet ion  takes too much t ime.Fig.3 shows an example  of the process of spacereconstruct ion .
Ill F ig.3(a),  the distance between theentit ies A and B was 10.
Let 's  assume that  a newest imat ion  for tile distance is 5.
The reconst ructorlooks a round the ne ighbors  of both  entit ies, anddecides to move  tile entity B because the ne ighborsof B are less dense than those of A.
The reconstruc-tor selects one posit ion that  causes the least newinconsistency,  f rom among eight posi t ions a round A,for B to be placed in.
In F ig.g(b),  \]:3 is placed to theleft of A.
New incons istenc ies  ill the scope of *atten-tion such as incons istency about  B and G arechecked and registered in * inconsistent.
Af ter  a few3"77C o oE o GI0O~ .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
~0 BDo A oF oH(a)C o o E o G5o, - -  - .,,o AB D ?
o F o H(b)Go Co oEo B oAHo OD ?F(c)Fig.5 An example ofspace reconstructionprocessFig,4 An example of initial semantic space(a horizontal section)tr ial loops  to decrease  incons is tency ,  the  space set t lesin the  conf igurat ion  shown in F ig .3 (c ) ,  wh ichinc ludes  no  incons is tency .Of course  we can  use  more  mathemat ica lmethods  (e.g.
mat r ix  t rans format ion  of d i s tance)  forspace reconst ruc t ion .
However ,  the  above  men-t ioned  heur i s t i c  p rocedure  works  more  eff ic ient lythan  mathemat ica l  methods ,  because  so many  pairscaus ing  incons is tency  are not  detected  at once due tothe  l im i ta t ion  of a t tent ion  and ra ther  smal l  dens i ty  ofthe  wor ld of l i terature .4.
Eva luat ionF i rs t  of all, we es t imated  the  size of the  semant icspace.
The  number  of wr i ters  s tud ied  in the  f ield ofresearch  on Japanese  l i terature  is about  1900.
Thenumber  of works  s tud ied  is about  2200.
For tunate ly ,these  numbers  are a lmost  f ixed.
The  number  ofpapers  wr i t ten  in that  f ield in a year  is about  5000.However ,  in te res t  of one  researcher  is l im i ted  to lessthan  one tenth  of them.We then  conf i rmed,  by  ask ing  some researchersand by ana lyz ing  the  process  of manua l  ed i t ing  ofresearch  paper  cata logues ,  that  a lmost  all not ions  inresearch  on Japanese  l i terature  can be p laced in posi-t i ons  among wr i ters  and  works.
For  the  not ions  thatcannot  be p laced among wr i ters  and  works ,  about100 not ions  such  as d ia lecto logy were prepared  forbu i ld ing  an  init ial space.F ina l ly  we car r ied  out  an exper iment  by us ingthe  imp lemented  sys tem.
Es t imat ing  the size of thesemant ic  space for  one  user ,  we made an init ial  spacein which  50 wr i ters  were reg is te red .
For  bu i ld ing  theinit ial  space,  we made a 50*50 d is tance matr ix  forthe  wr i ters  based  on tile in fo rmat ion  f rom tile t i t lesof '53563 papers  wr i t ten in the  last ten  years.
Theinit ial  space made by tile sys tem is shown in F igA.
'Pile initial space itself is in te res t ing  enough for'l i terature  s tudy.
We can know f rom tile space tiles t r ik ing fact  that  tile poet  named Bashou  in theseventeenth  century  has  a s t rong  re la t ion  with manymodern  nove l i s t s .
We can also in fer  that  manyresearchers  have  special  in te res t  in female  wr i ters,f ind ing  tile subspaee  where  anc ient  and  modernfemale  wr i ters  are c lus tered .We asked  a researcher  on Japanese  l i terature  tosearch  papers  based  on a complex  query .
One  querywas "on  the  process  of t rans format ion  of fab les  intowr i t ten fo rms ,  how fab les  were t rans fer red  amongpeop le ,  eco logy  of fab les" (* ) .
Look ing  at thesemant ic  space,  he f irst rough ly  enc losed  in the  spaceabout  ten  works  which he  thought  to be re la ted  to" fab les" .
G lanc ing  at the  bot tom space of them,where  1337 papers  (wr i t ten  in the last ten  years )were scat tered ,  he cou ld  po in t  out  112 papers  wh ichmatched  the query .The  se lec ted  papers  which  inc luded  in tile t it leswords  such  as nature ,  deve lopment ,  t rans fer ,  fabl iza-l ion,  or generat ion  were gathered  into one subspaceby the sys tem after  the  sess ion ,  and  the user ' s  querywas reg is te red  above  tile subspace .
Th is  means  that ,next  t ime,  the  sys tem can give the answers  to the(*)The query was given in Japanese.
This is a tranMationmade by the authors378same query  at once,  and  can reg is ter ,  in the  propersubspace ,  new papers  on tile same not ion .The  greates t  mer i t  of the  semant ic  space was thatthe  sys tem cou ld  tell ti le user  what  it knew about  theth ings  re la ted  to the  user ' s  request .
In convent iona lsys tems wh ich  depend on key  words,  users  mustimag ine  what words  the sys tem knows;  in fact, tilesub jec t  of the  exper iment  cou ld  not  give proper  keywords  for  the  complex  query .
In cont ras t  with th is ,the at~ility of the  user  to po in t  out  the  subspaccs  hewants  by jus t  g lanc ing  at the who le  presented  spacewas more  than  we expected .5.
Related Works'?he most  re la ted  work  is R ieger ' s \ [7 ,8 \ ] .
He alsomade some k ind  of semant ic  space f rom the in fer  ~mar ion  of re la t ions  among words.
However ,  he  madethc space based  on ly  oil tile f requency  of co-occur rences  of words  ill sentences .
Our  semant icspace carl have  more  realil,y about  meo, n ings  thanhis,  because  symbo ls  that  are actual ly connected  toent i t ies  s to red  in tile database  ex is t  in our  st)ace.In the  sense  of t reat ing  ent i t ies  wh ich  do nothave  symbo l i c  represeu l ,  at ion,  conneet ion is tmode ls \ [4 ,9 \ ]  have  some re la t ion  with our  approach .l l owever ,  it seems that  the eonneet ion is ts  have  notyet  rea l i zed  the process  of y ie ld ing  symbo ls  on con  ~nect ion  networks  that  can represent  such  abst ractnot ions  as deal t  with by our  sys tem.F rom the  methodo log ica l  po in t  of v iew, methodsdeve loped  in the s tud ies  of mu l t i -d imens iona l  syn-thes i s  in stat ist ics  are re la ted  to ours .
The  reason  wehave  deve loped  methods  to ca lculate tile spaceindependent ly  f rom those  methods  is s imi lar  to onemenUoned by Lebowi tz \ [6 \ ] .
That  ix, we are noLin teres ted  in mathemat ica l  r ig idness  of the  process  ofana lyz ing  data, but  in mode l ing  what  occurs  m tilehuman mind .1,'rein the v iewpo in t  of in fo rmat ion  re t r ieva lsys -teens,  there  are many  more  requests  than  thoseanswered  by our  approach .
They  inc lude t reat ings t ruc tures  of key  words  more  expl ic i t ly ,  unders tand-ing tile user ' s  in tent ion  f rom his query \ [ l \ ] ,  or mak ingco -operat ive  responses \ [5 \ ] .
However ,  the  prev iouss tud ies  on those  prob lems s tar ted  ignor ing  tile mostbasic p rob lem of unders tand ing  and  learn ing  themean ings  of one word.
Our  work  can give anassured  s tar t ing  po in t  for' those  fu r ther  s tud ies .6.
Conc lus ionWe proposed  to represent  the  mean ings  of wordsin space.
We gave a learn ing  mechan ism for tilespace.
We proved  tile e f fec t iveness  of the  proposedmethods  in an in fo rmat ion  re t r ieva l  sys tem.One  of the  reasons  we chose  the f ield ofJapanese  l i terature  was that  there  was s t rong  demmldf rom th.e researchers  in that  f ield to make  a use fu lsys tem;  sys tems based  on convent iona l  key  wordsdid riot work  welt for  the f ield of l i terature .Another  reason  is that  the  f ie ld of fers  goodexamples  of ent i t ies  for  wh ich  un iversa l  symbo l i crepresentat ion  is diff icult.To apply our  method  to o ther  f ie lds,  we mustso lve  on ly  two prob lems.
One  prob lem is to se lectsymbo ls  to be put  ill tile init ial space.
In l i terature ,works  and  wr i ters  p layed tile role.
Ti~e o ther  p rob lemis to determine  cr i ter ia for  space conf igurat ion .
Weused  a user ' s  sa t i s fac t ion  wittl the  answers  f rom thein fo rmat ion  re t r ieva l  sys tem as tile cr i ter ion.
Ifthese  two prob lems are so lved ,  our  method  can beappl ied to any domain .
"l 'hcsc prob lems do uot  seemso diff icult.F rom the v iewpo in t  of artif icial in te l l igence ,  the.semant ic  space Rives a bas is  for  s tud ies  on abduet ionan.d ana logy.
The  d i seovery  of b lank  space snr.-rounded by symbo ls  carl lead to d i scover ing  of newideas by mac\ ] t ines .
S iuce we can measure  semant ics imi lar i ty  direct ly by d i s tance  in semant ic  space,  wccan make  analog ica l  reason ing  based  oil that  similar-.ity.
For  the  same reason ,  f rom the  l inguist ic  po in t  ofv iew,  the  semant ic  spac, e e~l  be use fu l  for  under.
.s tand ing  metaphor ica l  express ion  such  as "Hofs .
.tadter  is Pro log  between procedura l  semant ics  anddec larat ive  semant ics" .References\[llAllen,,L:Recognizing Intentions from Natural LanguageUtterances, in Brady,M,,Berwiek,R.C (eds.
): CoTnputa-tlonal Models of Di~eou'me.
MIT Press(1983)121Barwiz e, J., Perry.
J. : Situaiians and A ltit, udes, M 1TPress(1983),\[3JDowty,D.R, et al: Introdw:tion to Monta que Sranantics,D.
Rid el P ublishing ( 19111 )\[41Feldman,J.A,:Conneetionist Models and Their ApplicationsIntroduction, Coynilive So.brace, Vol.9,pp.
1-3(1985).\[5\]Kaplan,J.:Cooperatiw.
?
Responses from a Portable NaturalLanguage Database Qury System, inBrady,M.,Berwick,R.C.
(eds): Computational Models ofDiscourse, MIT Press(1983).\[6\]LebowiLz,M.
:Categorizing Numeric Information for' General..ization, Coffnlfive Science, Vol, 9,pp.285-308 (1985).\[?\]Rieger,B,B,:Procedural Meaning Representation by Connota-tive Dependency Struetures.
An Empirical Approach toWord Semantics for Analogical Infereneing, Prec.
COL-mc.a2 (1982)\[8\]Rieger,BB,:SemaaLie Rel vance and Aspect Dependency in aGiven Subject i)omain; Contents-Driven AlgorithmieProcessing of Fu'zzy Wordmeanings to Form DynamicStereotype Repre~mntations, Prec.
COLING84 (1984)\[9\]Rumelhart,D.E.
:Feature Discovery by Competitive Learning,Cognitive Selence, Vel.9,pp.
?5-112 (1985).37!)
