Knowledge Structures for Natura l  Language Generat lon ~Paul S. JacobsKnowledge-Based Systems BranchGeneral Electric Corporate Research and DevelopmentSchenectady, NY 12301 USAAbstractThe development of natural language interfaces to Artifi-cial Intelligence systems is dependent on the representation ofknowledge.
A major impediment to building such systems hasbeen the difficulty in adding sufficient linguistic and concep-tual knowledge to extend and adapt their capabilities.
Thisdifficulty has been apparent in systems which perform thetask of language production, i. e. the generation of naturallanguage output to satisfy the communicative requirementsof a system.The Ace framework applies knowledge representation fun-damentals to the task of encoding knowledge about language.Within this framework, linguistic and conceptual knowledgeare organized into hierarchies, and structured associations areused to join knowledge structures that are metaphoricallyor referentially related.
These structured associations per-mit specialized linguistic knowledge to derive partially frommore abstract knowledge, facilitating the use of abstractionsin generating specialized phrases.
Thls organization, used bya generator called KING (Knowledge INtensive Generator),promotes the extenslbility and adaptability of the generationsystem.1 IntroductionThe task of natural anguage generation is that of producinglinguistic output to satisfy the communicative r quirementsof a computer system.
The principal imitation of existingprograms which perform this function is that they fail torealize a sufficiently broad range of requirements o demon-strate a convincing linguistic apability.
This drawback seemsfounded in aspects of the systems which hinder the develop-ment of a large base of knowledge about language.
A greatdeal of knowledge is required to produce any given utterance,yet much of this knowledge cannot easily be exploited acrossa range of utterances.Partial success in generation systems is often achieved byapplying linguistic knowledge to particular domains.
Exem-plary of this success are text generation programs uch asPROTEUS \[6\], and Ann \[15,14\]; as well as generation com-ponents of on-line systems; for example, in HAM-ANS \[5\],UC \[9,11\[, and VIE-LANG \[4 I.
These systems, while em-bodying a variety of generation techniques, erve to illustratethe importance of the command of specialized constructs andthe ability to utilize specialized knowledge in generation.
Aclose examination of the knowledge used in such programs,however, reveals that a great deal of linguistic informationseems to be encoded redundantly, thus impeding the use ofgeneralizations in "scaling up ~ the systems.The UNIX 2 Consultant system \[22\] is a program whichanswers questions from naive users about he UNIX operatingsystem.
Scaling up the user interface required a generatorwhich could produce responses such as the following:1.
'Chmod' can be used to give you write permission.2.
You don't have write permission on the directory.3.
You can't get write permission on the directory.4.
You need ethernet access.
'This paper is based on the thesis research conducted while the au-thor was at the University of California, Berkeley.
The researchwas supported inpart by the Office of Naval Research under con-tract N00014-80-C-0732, the National Science Foundation undergrants IST-8007045 and IST-8208602, and the Defense AdvancedResearch Projects Agency (DO D), ARPA Order No.
3041, Moni-tored by the Naval Electronic Systcras Command under contractN00039-82-C-0235.5.
You don't have ethernet access.The PHRED generator initially used by UC \[11\] producedoutput such as the above by treating each verb use as an in-dependent specialized construct.
This allowed no benefit tothe system of abstract knowledge about the use of the verbs,nor of applying its knowledge about one specialized constructto another.
This difficulty proves to be a major handicapin building large-scale generation systems: A key elementis to facilitate the exploitation of generalizations while stillproviding for specialized uses.
In order for the UC systemto have this capacity, the linguistic knowledge representationused had to be redesigned.This knowledge-based approach has led to the design andimplementation of the Ace knowledge representation frame-work \[12\].
Ace is a uniform, hierarchical representation sys-tem, which facilitates the use of abstractions in the encodingof specialized knowledge as well as the representation of ref-erential and metaphorical relationships among concepts.
Ageneral-purpose natural language generator, K ING (Knowl-edge INtensive Generator)f10\], has been implemented to ap-ply knowledge in the Ace form.
The generator works by ap-plying structured associations, or mappings, from conceptualto linguistic structures, and combining these structures intogrammatical utterances.
This has proven to be a simple butpowerful mechanism, easy to adapt and extend, and has pro-vided strong support for the use of Ace knowledge structuresin generation.While this presentation describes the Ace knowledge struc-tures from the point of view of language production, the rep-resentation framework is designed to be unbiased with respectto language analysis or generation.The discussion which follows focuses on the representa-tion of linguistic and conceptual knowledge in Ace, using asan example knowledge about the verbs "give ", "take ", "buy"and "sell ".
The examples show briefly how information is en-coded in Ace which enables the generator to produce dativeconstructs such as "John sold Mary a book ~ and specializedforms such as "John gave Mary a kiss", making use of abstractknowledge about events such as giving.
These verbs providea good testing ground for a representational framework, asthey may be characterized by certain linguistic generaliza-tions while appearing in a variety of specialized constructs.For further examples and a description of the generation al-gorithm used by KING, the reader is referred to \[10\].2 Ace FundamentalsI have suggested that the development of extensible and adapt-able natural language systems depends on a knowledge rep-resentation framework within which generalizatlons are effec-tively exploited.
This is the primary goal of the Ace frame-work.
The starting point of Ace was an implementation ofa knowledge representation called KODIAK \[21\], which wasextended to include explicit structured relationships betweenlanguage and meaning.
This section presents the basic knowl-edge representation principles behind Ace, and provides anexample of how conceptual knowledge is used to relate knowl-edge about selling to knowledge about gi~ng.2.1 Basic PrinciplesMany knowledge representation systems, however differentthey appear superficially, may be shown to have the sameSUNIX is a trademark of AT & T Bell Laboratories554formal expressive or inferential power.
This discussion centersnot on the question of formal power but on the nature ofthe knowledge which must be expressed.
The Ace knowledgerepresentation provides a framework for expressing essentiallinguistic knowledge in a form suitable for encoding within arepresentational formalism.The following principles guide the encoding of knowledgeimportant in the generation task:o Principle 1.
Inheritance of Conceptual Relations.Concepts in memory are organized into a hierarchy ofcategories, in which more specific concepts inherit "fea-tures" from more general concepts.
This inheritance is arepresentational tool which has been employed through-out the history of Artificial Intelligence (e.f.\[18,19,2,3\]).The question of what exactly is inherited, however, canbe answered in a variety of ways.
Ace takes advantageof structured inheritance, (of.
\[3\]), in which conceptslinked to a particular structure may inherit from super-categories of that structure.
For example, knowledgeabout the seller of a sellin 9 action may be inheritedfrom knowledge about the giver of a giving action.
*, Principle ~.
Proliferation of Conceptual Categories.Individual concepts are themselves categories, and anyconcept about which there is particular knowledge isconsidered to form a category.
Thus categories prolif-erate: Probably, there are far more conceptual cate-gories than there are lexical items in the system.
Forexample, it will be shown later in this section that itis reasonable to postulate a concept specifically for theaction of paying money in exchange for merchandise,although there is no lexical item corresponding to thisconcept.
The lexical term "pay" is associated with amore general concept, that of providing money in ex-change for virtually anything.
The lexical term "give"may be associated with a general giving concept, butgiving to charity, giving an idea, and giving a chanceare distinct concepts with distinct linguistic manifesta-tions.
For example, the use of the verb "give" withoutobject or indirect object as in "Bill gave" and "I gaveat the office" is a linguistic phenomenon which appearsalmost exclusively when referring to charitable giving.e Principle 3.
Explicit Referential Relationships.There are a range of conceptual relationships impor-tant in language use which are not easily described asfactual or ontological relationships.
The one which isconsidered here is the view relationship, which helpsto determine how concepts may be used in express-i.ng other concepts.
The concepts of giving and tak-ing may be related to the concept of a transfer-event,but the instantiation of the abstract giving and tak-ing concepts cannot be factually inferred from the in-stantiation of transfer-event.
For example, "John gavefive dollars to charity" does not imply that a charita-ble organization took the five dollars from John.
"Marytook the money from John" does not imply that Johngave Mary the money.
In many circumstances, how-ever, the same event may be described using "give" or"take".
For example, (1) "John gave Mary five dollarsfor the book" may imply (2) "Mary took five dollarsfrom John for the book".
Representing giving and tak-ing as views of transfer-event permits the encoding ofknowledge about describing transfer-events without re-~luiring a given event to be classified as giving or tak-ing.
These views may thus represent he knowledgethat "John took <x> from Mary" and "Mary gave John<x>" might be used to describe the same event.
Suchviews will be shown to be useful in determining howlinguistic structures are used to refer to events.The next section describes the basic elements of the hier-archical framework of Ace.2 .2  S t ruc tured  Asuoc ia t lons  in  AceAce makes use of a notation in which there are two types ofentities: objects and structured associations2 A structuredassociation is a relation among two or more objects whichalso relates corresponding objects associated with the relatedobjects.The most common structured associations in Ace, takenfrom the KODIAK representation, 4 are the DOMINATE, or"D", relation, which associates a subcategory with its parentcategory, and the MANIFEST or "m" relation, which asso-ciates a category with an aspectual or role.
This hierarchicalsystem is analogous to isa-links and slots in other similar rep-resentation systems; the motivation behind KODIAK was topreserve the ideas behind frame-based representations whileclarifying the semantics of a "slot".
For a comparison of KO-DIAK with other research, see Wilensky (forthcoming).The term ROLE-PLAY, also taken from KODIAK, is usedto indicate corresponding concepts across structured associa-tions.
For example, the assertion,(DOMINKI'E action sellingwith (ROLE-PLAY actor seller))indicates that selling is a subcategory of action, with sellerplaying the role of actor.
A graphical representation of thisrelation, with the ROLE-PLAY implicit, is illustrated in fig-ure 1.Figure 1: The selling actionStructured associations with RObE-PLAYs are the basicmechanism for organizing knowledge m Ace.
The next sectiondescribes how these associations are used to represent basicknowledge about buying and selling.2.3  The  Commerc ia l  T ransact ion  ExampleI have proposed that generalizing about linguistic constructssuch as the dative form in "John gave Mary a dollar", "Johntold Mary a story", and "John sold Mary a book", seemsto depend on the representation of concepts uch as giving,telling, and selling.
This section presents the foundation forthe encoding of selling in Ace.Consider the concept of the commercial transaction \[7\].The commercial-transaction represents an event in which amerchandise object is exchanged for legal tender.
The essen-tial knowledge about this event may be represented by clas-sifying the commercial-transaction as a complex-event, com-posed of at least two simpler events, ct-merchandise..transferand or-tender-transfer.
Each of these two sub-events is akind of transfer-event, and is thus used to associate roles ofthe commercial-transaction with roles of transfer-event.
Thisknowledge is captured in figure 2.Figure 2 illustrates the important knowledge that the mer-chant receives the tender fl'om the customer, and the cus-tomer receives the merchandise from the merchant.
Con-cepts such as merchant, cu,.itomer, merchandise, and tenderare aspectuals of the commercial-transaction; that is, they"This term, and the idea of using general structured associations as alanguage processing tool.
are due to Wile.sky.4These associations, as well as m~my of the ideas here, have evolvedduring a series of seminars among the Berkeley Artificial IntelligenceResearch group, led by Rohart Wileasky.
Other participants in thesediscussions were: Richard AIterma~b Margaret Butler, David Chin,Charley Cox, Marc Laria, Anthony Maida, James hl~ tin, James May-field, Peter Norvig, Lisa Rau.
au'd Nigel Ward.555are specific oncepts whose meaning is undetachable from thecommercial-transaction event.
However, much of the knowl-edge about these concepts, such as the recipient and sourceroles, is inherited from other concepts.
As in other frame-likesystems \[19,2\], this organization allows roles of a concept obe inherited in this manner.
The ROLE-PLAY relationshipin Ace, however, permits more than this simple form of inher-itance: It allows for the semantics of aspectuals to be definedin terms of other aspectuals.
For example, the meaning ofthe merchant aspectual of the commercial-transaction here isrepresented in part by the ROLE-PLAY relation which linksthis aspectual to the source of the d-merchandise-transfer andthat which links it to the recipient of the st-tender-transfer.The assertions above form an im:port ant core of knowledgeabout commercial-transactions.
This knowledge is importantFigure 2: The commercial-transaction eventin the way language is used to describe such events.
For ex-ample, it will be shown in section 4 that the knowledge thatmerchandise and tender play object roles is linked to knowl-edge about transitive verb forms, so that phrases such as"bought a book" and "paid five dollars" conform to a generalrule.The next section discusses how concepts uch as buyingand selling, used to refer to the commercial-transaction c -cept, are represented in Ace.2.4 Act ions  as V IEWs of  EventsI have proposed that verbs such as "give" and "take" referto the actions giving and taking, and thus refer indirectly tothe general transfer-event concept.
The motivation for thisanalysis is to facilitate the representation f knowledge aboutthe roles which giver and taker play, thereby enabling "Johngave Mary a book" and "Mary took a book from John" todescribe indirectly the same event, as "All gave Frazier apunch", and "Frazier took a punch fl'om Ali" may indirectlydescribe the same event.The commercial-transaction event is generally describedusing the verbs "buy", "sell", and "pay".
"Sell" and '~pay ~behave similarly to the verb "give"; "buy", behaves more llke"take".
For example, "John sold Mary a book", and "Marypaid five dollars for the book" both use the dative form, and"John bought he book from Mary" exhibits a structure iden-tical to "John took the book from Mary".
The representationof the concepts buying and selling in Ace relates these con-cepts to giving and taking so that knowledge about expressinggiving and taking may be used also for buying and selling.556The concepts giving and taking in Ace are related to thetransfer-event concept by a structured association called aVIEW.
Inspired by the notion of a view in earlier knowledgerepresentations \[17,2\], the Ace VIEW is applied to metaphor-ical and analogical relationships, similar to those describedin \[16,8\].
VIEWs are used to represent knowledge aboutconcepts which may be used in expressing other concepts.The Ace network in figure 3 represents the basic knowledgeabout giving, taking, buying, and selling.
In this hierarchy, thestructured association view1 between transfer-event and giv-ing DOMINATEs the structured association view3 betweenc t-merchandise-transfer andselling, and view2between transferevent and taking DOMINATES view$ between st-merchandisestransfer and buying.The representation i figure 3 demonstrates on a smallscale how the hierarchical arrangement of VIEWs is used inthe encoding of structured associations.
Structured associa-.tions such as view1 between transfer-event and giving DOM~INATE other more specific relations, such as view3.
Notethat this makes the explicit representation of ROLE-PLAYrelations for view3 unnecessary, as the relationship betweenmerchant and seller in view3 is specified by the relationshipbetween source and giver in view1.The representation of the selling concept is a simple ex-ample of how Ace encodes abstractions which may be usedin language processing.
The abstraction here is the relation-ship between a general category giving and a general categorytransfer-event.
There are two ways in which this abstractionmay be used: (1) A more specific association may be rep-resented as a subcategory of the abstract association.
Thisis the case in the selling example presented here.
In thiscase, knowledge about the abstract association may be usedin applying the specific association, thus knowledge aboutexpressing an abstract concept may be used in expressing amore specific concept.
This allows much of the same knowl-edge to be used for phrases involving "giving" and "selling".
(2) A concept which is associated by another VIEW with theabstract concept may then also be expressed using the ab-stract VIEW.
This is the case with expressions such as "givea punch" (cf.
section 4.3), which takes advantage of the ab-stract action as transfer-event view in combination with thetransfer-event as giving VIEW.The next two sections discuss the application of the Aceframework to the representation of linguistic knowledge andto the representation of the knowledge which associates lin-guistic and conceptual structures.Figure 3: The hierarchy of VIEWs3 Basic Grammatical KnowledgeThe principles outlined in section 2.1 motivate a representa-tion in which knowledge is dispersed throughout a hierarchy,with a greater number of structures, each containing morelimited information.
Linguistic knowledge in Ace is organizedinto a hierarchy which incorporates this type of organization.In fact, the same knowledge representation language is usedto encode both linguistic and conceptual knowledge in Ace.The linguistic hierarchy provides for a simple set of basic lin-guistic templates, with little redundancy and relative ase ofextension.
The following principles of linguistic representa-tion are suggested:Princ@h, $.
Inheritance of Linguistic Features.Sets of  features which are common to a certain class oftemplates need not be specified independently for eachtemplate in the class.
Thus, if there is a set of fea-tures shared among passive sentences~ or among prepo-sitional phrases, these features belong by default o anytemplate in the class.
This eliminates the need for fullyspecifying the structure of phrases which have special-ized properties or meaning?o Principle 5.
Proliferation of Linguistic Categories.In order to take advantage of the inheritance of fea-tures, there must be a wide range of classes of iinguls-tic templates which share sets oi features.
Often thesecategories depart from the traditional syntactic las-sifications.
Requiring that a template bca  memberof a unique category in the case of a gerund or nom-inalization can prove difficult, as these may inherit cer?rain attributes fl'om verbs and certain attributes fromnouns Thus any template may inherit features, includ-ing structural descnptmns, from multiple categorms.Categories are arranged hierarchically, so each categoryinherits from all its ancestors in the hierarchy.o Principle 6.
Distinguishing Grammatical Relations fromGrammatical Patterns.A great deal of linguistic information seems associatedwith structural relationships between linguistic onstit-uents which are dependent neither on their order in asurface structure nor on the precise nature of the struc-ture in which they appear.
For example, the relation be-tween subject and verb retains its linguistic features re-gardless of how the subject and verb appear in any sur-face structure: The agreement between subject and verbin ~John was given the book by Mary" is the same as inaWas John given the book by Mary?"
as is the concep-tual recipient role which John plays.
Such informationdoes not pertain to a particular surface structure, butto any surface structure in which a noun phrase andverb are in the subject-verb relation.
In "John kissedMary on the cheek" and "The kiss on the cheek pleasedMary", the role of %n the cheek" as it relates to "kiss"is independent of whether the prepositional phrase ispart of a verb phrase or noun phrase.
In general, struc-tural linguistic relationships are not limited to thosewhich are directly linked to constituent order, and thusa more general facility than a syntactic pattern is re-quired to represent these relationships.o Principle 7.
Uniformity of Representation.Linguistic knowledge is knowledge, and thus cart be en-coded using the same representational framework asconceptual knowledge.
The same structured associa-tion~ used in the conceptual hierarchy can be used inthe linguistic hierarchy, u Having such uniformity ofrepresentation has the practical vahm of facilitating theinteraction of conceptual nd linguistic structures.SThe use of a knowledge r presentation la guage to encode syntacticknowledge for file purpose of semantic nterpretation ha.~ been pracoriced with KL-ONE \[20\] and its successors, also favoring uniformity of'representatiom Such t;ystcms have not been used, to my knowledge, toencode associations between conceptual nd linguistic knowledge.The discussion which follows demonstrates how linguisticknowledge may be encoded using the framework describedin the previous ection, and discusses the effect of propertyinheritance on linguistic knowledge representation.3 .1  Mu l t ip le  Inher i tance  in  the  Ace  L in -gu is t i c  H ie rarchyThis section shows how the structured associations of Ace,and particularly the capacity for multiple inheritance, areused to encode some of the linguistic knowledge used in theconstruction of simple sentences.~$.1.1 Verb phrase~ i~ AceVerb phrases provide a good example of the use of a linguistichierarchy because they exhibit a variety of surface forms whileobeying certain regularities.
One type of verb phrase is thedative-vp, a verb-phrase made up of a constituent dvp-indir,which includes the verb and noun phrase corresponding tothe indirect object, followed by the nonn phrase correspond-ing to the direct object.
The treatment of the dvpoindir asa separate constituent is done to facilitate the handling ofother dative forms?
Figure 4 shows how knowledge about thedative verb phrase pattern is encoded in Ace, as well as howthis dative-vp is positioned in the verb phrase hierarchy.
Thepattern dvp-pattern represents the ordering of the constitu-ents of the verb phrasej while t'he relation dvp-indir is used torepresent the relationship between the dative verb and indi-rect object.
Section 4 will show how this relation is associatedwith conceptual knowledge?By allowing aspectuals which represent patterns and pat?tern constituents o play multiple roles, the representation flinguistic knowledge as shown in figure 4 shows how knowl.-edge about infinitives, gerunds, and verb phrases is distributedin the Ace hierarchy.
The various verb phrase patterns fallbeneath the verb-phrase template, as do the gerund phrase,infinitive phrase, and finite, verb phrase nodes, in order todat ive~,st cans~ ?c ol~jFigure 4: The verb phrase hierarchyproduce a finite verb ~hrasel a node lower ill the hierarchymust be instantiated, this hmrarclfical organization permitsthe gerund phrase and infinitive phrase to have the same lin-guiqtic structure as the verb phrase, modulo the fore1 of theverb part.
An instantiated verb-phrase in Ace thns inherii, smost of it,~ internal structure from one category, for exampledative-vp, and its external behavior from another, for exam?pie, finite-verb-phrase.
The verb~phrase category !tself playsno external syntactic role---there isno pattern in which a con?stituenlJ belongs to the verb-.ph,'ase category and to no lowercategory~ although theoretically there could be.
The effectiycorganization of information ~,bout verb phrases tems directlyfrom the application of the basic knowledge x~presentatioaprinciples of Ace ~o linguistic knowledge.557This section has shown how a hierarchical representationis used to encode linguistic relations.
The next section con-centrates on how the representation of explicit referential rela-tionships links this linguistic knowledge to conceptual knowl-edge.4 Associating Language and Mean-ingSection 2.1 presented the foundations of the Ace frameworkand its application to meaning representation, proposing thatconcepts be hierarchically organlzed, linked together via struc-tured associations.
Section 3 described how linguistic knowl-edge can also be hierarchically organized within this frame-work, and how features can thus be inherited through linguis-tic categories.
The idea of a linguistic relation was proposed,to distinguish structural relationships from ordering relation-ships in grammatical constructs.
Naturally, the knowledgerequired to produce correct and appropriate utterances in-c\],udes both of these classes in addition to the links whichDIUO l ;ne  C lasSes  ~oge~ner.4.1 Bas ic  P r inc ip lesThe goal of taking advantage of explicit referential knowledge,discussed in section 2.1, along with the framework presentedin the previous ections, suggests two principles directed to-wards the association oflinguistic and conceptual knowledge:?
Representation Principle 8, Correspondence ofLinguis-tic and Conceptual Structures.Linguistic structures, uch as lexical terms, linguisticcategories, and grammatical structures, are directly as-soclated with conceptual categories.
General linguis-tic categories in Ace, such as verb-indir-relation, corre-spond to general conceptual categories, such as transfer-event.
Specific lexical terms, such as "buy" and "sell',are linked to more specific oncepts, such as buying andselling.
Grammatical structures, uch as the modifier-noun relation, are associated with conceptual relations,such as MANIFEST.?
Representation Principle 9.
Association of LinguisticFeatures tuith Conceptual Attributes.The structured association permits the relation of lin-istlc aspectuals with conceptual spectuals via ROLE-AY.
Linguistic features, uch as dvp-pattern and ivp-verb as described in section 3 are represented asaspec-tunis in Ace, as their status depends on the templateof which they are a part.
The association of these fea-tures with conceptual ttributes goes along with theassociation of the template with a concept.
For exam-ple, the indirect object feature iobj is an aspectual ofverb-indir-relation.
The linguistic feature iobj is linkedto the conceptual ttribute recipient, an aspectual ofthe transfer-event concept.
The direct-object featureobj, an aspectual of verb-obj-relation~ is linked to theconceptualobject concept, an aspeetual of the simple-event concept.
Thus linguistic features have conceptualcorrelates.The next section describes how these principles are real-ized in the association of language and meaning in Ace.4.2 L ink ing  L ingu is t i c  and  Conceptua l  S t ruc -tu res  Us ing  REFThe main tool for representing relationships between linguis-tic structures and conceptual structures inAce is a structuredassociation called REF.
The REF association, designating"referential" relationships, i  similar to VIEW, except thatit joins language to concepts instead of concepts to concepts.The linguistic knowledge presented earlier has includedinformation about how verbs and their objects or indirectobjects may appear in surface structure.
The knowledge us-sential to build these structures, however, is contained in thecorrespondence b tween linguistic relations and conceptualentities.
This information is presented in figure 5.The diagrams in figure 5 illustrate how the syntactic struc-ture of the dative verb phrase is associated with its conceptualstructure.
The verb part and noun phrase in the ivp-patternin the top diagram belong to the verb-indir-relation, whichassociates with the indirect object the concept of recipient.This diagram presents a slightly abbreviated version of theAce representation given in section 3, as ivp-verb and ivp-npare associated only indirectly with the verb-indir-relation viathe ivp-relation aspectual.The etructuredassoeiation between the verb-obj-relationand the simple-event concept in the lower diagram of Figure5 links the object of the verb in the dative verb phrase tothe object of the simple event.
In this association, as in theassociation of the verb-indir-relation with the transfer-event,the verb part dvp-verb is associated via ROLE-PLAY withthe event itself, rather than with any aspectual of the event.Like the pattern-concept pair \[1 l\]or the unification gram-mar template \[13,1\], REF is a means of associating linguisticstructure with conceptual structure.
The template, however,is replaced with an explicit structural link in the knowledgeFigure 5: Knowledge linking verb phrases to eventsnetwork.
This makes it easier to perform the knowledl~e-driven aspects of generation because no querying or complexmatching isnecessary.
The use of the REF association also fa-cilitates incremental generation by encoding knowledge aboutreferential relationships a structured associations atvariouslevels in the Ace hierarchy: The construction of a completesentence involves the combination of structures derived froma number of REF associations, each of which refines thosestructures already active, e4.3 Knowledge  About  Spec ia l i zed  Const rueThe examples given in the previous ection are simple illustra-tions of the use of associations between language and meaningat a variety of levels.
These levels become specially appar-ent in the representation of knowledge about specialized con-structs, whose meaning can be only partially represented asassociations from more general linguistic structures.~Those familiar with KL-ONE and other similar epresentation la -guag~ will observe that he Ace representation e ds to avoid matchingby assuming that he concept being enerated from is assigned toa spe-cific category.
Thus some of the work done by template matching insystems such as PHRED is done during the classification f a concept inAce.
This is consistent with the Proliferation f Conceptual Categories.principle: the generator need not obtain conceptual information thatis more specific than that contained in the category inwhich a concepthas been classified.558The means in which specialized knowledge isencoded variesaccording to the particular construct.
The "give a hug" ex-pression is interesting because there is no single syntacticstructure which can be identified with the specialized inter-pretation, yet intuitively the specialized meaning seems tiedto the use of the verb "give" in conjunction with the object"hug".
While the metaphorical connection between the hug-ging action and the giving action is dependent on the "act-ing upon is giving" metaphor, this "hugging is hug-giving"metaphor must also be associated with the particular lexicalitems "give" and "hug".
Figure 6 shows how both objec-tives may be accomplished: The link between hug-giving andhug-transfer is labeled view1" to indicate that it is DOM-INATEd by the structured association between giving andtransfer-event.
This association, view1, relates the source ofthe transfer-event to the giver or actor of the giving.
By in-heritance and ROLE-PLAY, viewI'associates the giver of thehug-giving action with the source of the hug-transfer event.The views view?
and view3 represent metaphorical ssocia-tions that actions may be VIEWed as transfer-events fromthe actor to the object.
View3 indicates the correspondencebetween the object of an action or event and the recipientof the transfer, and between the event and the object of thetransfer.
View2 represents he relationship between sourceand actor.The association between the hug-transfer event and thehugging action, labeled viewg,3" allows the inheritance of theknowledge that the source of the hug-transfer corresponds tothe actor of the hugging action, that the object of the hug-transfer corresponds tothe hugging action itself, and that therecipient of the hug-transfer corresponds to the object of thehugging.
The view2,3' association is DOMINATEd by bothview2 and view3 and thus inherits their ROLE-PLAYs.Knowledge about specialized constructs, uch as "giving ahug", makes use of abstract structured associations betweenlanguage and meaning just as knowledge about selling makesuse of knowledge about giving.
In this way the Ace repre-sentation is used to take advantage of generalizations i  theencoding of specialized knowledge.Figure 6: Knowledge used for "giving a hug"5 Summary  and  Conc lus ionThe knowledge framework for language generation presentedhere shows how generalizations may be effectively exploited inthe representation f linguistic knowledge.
The application ofthe Ace framework to the representation f knowledge aboutselling shows how knowledge about giving may be used torepresent information used in constructing utterances withthe verb "sell".
The example of "g!ving a hug" is used todemonstrate how the notion of a mew captures knowledgeabout metaphorical constructs.
The representation embodiesa uniform, parsimonious encoding of conceptual nd linguis-tic knowledge which seems to promote the extensibility ofnatural language systems.References\[1\] D. Appelt.
TELEGRAM: a grammar formalism for lan-guage planning.
In Proceedings of the ?Ist Annual Meet-ing of the Association.
for Computational Linguistics,Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1983.\[2\] D. Bobrow and T. Winograd.
An overview of KRL, aknowledge representation language.
Cognitive Science,1(I), 1977.\[3\] R. Brachman.
et.
al.
Research in Natural Language Un-derstanding.
Technical Report 4274, Bolt Beranek andNewman, 1979.\[4\] E. Buchberger and H. Horacek.
The generation compo-nent of the system VIE-LANG.
In First InternationalWorkshop on Language Generation, Burg Stettenfels,West Germany, 1983.\[5\] S. Busemann.
Topicalization and pronominalization: ex-tending a natural anguage generation system.
In Pro-ceedings of the Sixth European Conference on ArtificialIntelligence, Pisa, Italy, 1984.\[6\] A. Davey.
Discourse production.
Edinburgh UniversityPress, Edinburgh, 1979.\[7\] C. J. Filhnore.
Topics in lexical semantics.
1977.\[8\] D. Gentner.
Structure-mapping: a theoretical frame-work for analogy.
Cognitive Science, 7, 1983.\[9\] P. Jacobs.
Generation i a natural language interface.
InProceedings of the Eighth International Joint Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence, Karlsruhe, Germany, 1983.\[10\] P. Jacobs.
A knowledge-based approach to languageproduction.
PhD thesis, University of California,Berkeley, 1985.
Computer Science Division ReportUCB/CSD86/254.P.
Jacobs.
PHRED: a generator for natural anguageinterfaces.
Computational Linguistics, 11(4), 1985.P.
Jacobs and L. Ran.
Ace: associating language withmeaning.
In Proceedings of the Sixth European Confer-ence on Artificial Intelligence, Pisa, Italy, 1984.M.
Kay.
Fanctional Unification Grammar: a formal-ism for machine translation.
In Proceedings of the TenthInternational Conference on Computational Linguistics,Stanford, California, 1984.K.
Kukich.
Knowledge-Based Report Generation: AKnowledge-Engineering Approach to Natural LanguageReport Generation~ PhD thesis, University of Pitts-burgh, 1983.K.
Kukich.
Semantic and syntactic onstraints innaturallanguage stock reports.
In proceedings of the $Sth annualmeeting of ASIS, 1982.G.
Lakoff and D. Johnson.
Metaphors we Live By.
Uni-versity of Chicago Press, Chicago, 1980.J.
Moore and A. Newell.
How can MERLIN understand?In L. Gregg, editor, Knowledge and Cognition, ErlbaumAssociates, Halsted, New Jersey, 1974.M.
R. Quillian.
Semantic Memory.
Bolt Beranek andNewman, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1966.R.
B. Roberts and I. P. Goldstein.
The FRL Manual.Technical Report AIM-408, MIT AI Lab, 1977.N.
Sondheimer, R. Weischedel, and R. Bobrow.
Seman-tic interpretation using KL-ONE.
In Proceedings of theTenth International Conference on Computational Lin-guistics, Palo Alto, 1984.R.
Wilensky.
KODIAK- a knowledge representation la -guage.
In Proceedings of the Sizth Annual Conference ofthe Cognitive Science Society, Boulder, Colorado, 1984.R.
Wilensky, Y.
Are, s, and D. Chin.
Talking to UNIXin English: an overview of UC.
Communications of theAssociation for Computing Machinery, 27(6), 1984.\[11\]\[12\]\[13\]\[141\[151\[16\]\[171\[181\[19\]\[20\]\[21\]\[221559
