PRAGMATIC CONSIDERATIONS IN MAN-MACHINE DISCOURSEWalther v. HahnResearch Unit forInformation Science and Artificial IntelligenceUNIVERSITY OF HAMBURGD-2000 HAMBURG 13, West-GermanyIn t roduct ionThis paper presents nothing that has notbeen noted prev ious ly  by research inArt i f ic ia l  Inte l l igence but seeks to gathertogether var ious ideas that have ar isen inthe l i terature.
It col lects those argumentswhich are in my v iew crucial for furtherprogress and is intended only as a reminderof insights which might  have been forgottenfor some time.Research on d iscourse has achievedremarkable results in the past decade.
Thestandard has been raised from simplequest ion answer ing to d ia logue faci l i t ies; afact which, as we all know, implies muchmore than only extending the border l ine ofsyntact ic analysis  tn the \]evp\] oF morn thanone sentence and more than one speaker.However, at the same time we all know thatthe real i ty of d iscourse is near ly as faraway as before from what we are able tomodel now.
It's certa in ly  not worthenumerat ing all the def ic ienc ies  of currentmodels and to l ist what the real goals are.It's a matter  of every-day exper ience to seethe "blatant mismatch between superf ic ia lhuman ease and theoret ical  mechanicalintractabi l i ty"  (Berwick (2)27).The s i tuat ion seems similar to that ofmodern l inguist ics,  "which has tr ied itsbest to avoid becoming entangled in thecomplexi ty  of conversat ion,  but has beengradual ly  forced in this d i rect ion byuncooperat ive data" (Power / dal Marte l lo(23).Though it is one of the so cal led "good old"t radi t ions of sc ience to e l iminate a lot ofthe most d i f f icu l t  quest ions by saying 'thisis not our job', in AI, however, from thecognit ive point  of v iew we must real ize thateveryth ing is our job.
"Its d irty work, butsomebody's got to do it" (Israel (18)).This seems rather contrary to what Berwick(2) shows in his 'Cook's tour' around thegeography of dialogue, where everyth ing fitstogether in an overal l  map and wheremodular i ty  is a virtue: Our knowledge ofnatural d iscourse processes is highlyinsular wi thout  br idges in between; and: thereal i ty  of d iscourse is complex in thateverything is cont ingent  with everythingelse; in fact, nothing is 'modular' in thissense (see Fodor (ii)).What I wil l  do in this paper is to show allthis as the patchwork it is and toencourage to approximate the a l ternat ivesseen so far.
In a lot of f ields of d ia logueresearch the d iscuss ion often ischaracter ized by an 'e i ther-or ' -v iew whereaswe should try to find a 'as-wel l -as' -solut ion or even another new path ofresearch.Looking at the results of our work we haveto accept at least three lines of progresswhich all have their own merits, namely(1) @evelo~ing new concepts, based on newintegrat ing ideas, even if only l imitedimplementat ion or other proofs offeas ib i l i ty  might  be poss ib le at time,(2) the unfold ing of these ideas bytheoret ical  background work and exper imentin all detail.
The result  of this work couldshow the intractabi l i ty  of such approachesor prove that this approach can be mappedonto a known solut ion (as e.g.
Johnson-La i rd(19) has tr ied to show for meaningpostulates and decomposi t ional  semantics).
(3) the explo i tat ion of the ideas inconstruct ing working systems which may showwhether  or not the idea passes thefeasib i l i ty  test.The general feel ing in Art i f ic ia lInte l l igence now seems to be eitherres ignat ion or par t icu lar izat ion  of theproblem of discourse.
The a l ternat ive afterall is not doing everything at the same timein one single ult imate system or doingnothing, but we must go on to fit togetherthe great puzzle even if there are a lot ofmiss ing pieces in areas which we havealready attacked.The first Challenge:Percept ion and Funct ionInteqrat ion ofThe pract ical  v iew tends to be restr ict ivein its approachto percept ion because this isthe world of the naive user of pract icalsystems.
People involved in natural d ia logue520obv ious ly  hear or read only  words,  moveob jec ts  or man ipu la te  symbols.
They knowthat the i \ [  in tu i t ions  about  the role andfunct ion  of the symbols  might  be wrong,  butall cogn i t ive  ac t ions  are t r iggered  by moreor less phys ica l  objects .
And, what  is evenmore important ,  na ive  users  are sure thatthe v i s ib le  words  or even cursor  pos i t ionsco inc ide  w i th  tile funct ion  in tended by them.It is a lways  d i f f i cu l t ,  e.g.
to demonst ra teusers ambigu i t ies  in the i r  u t te rances .Peop le  are surpr i sed  when you exp la inind i rec t  speech acts to them.Sc ient i s ts ,  on the other  hand, have toreconst ruct  a ser ies  of h ierarch J  ca\]abs t rac t  leve ls  and in terna l  representat ionsand of ten enough they get lost in the i r  ownsymbo l i c  maze and have to invent  more andmore ar t i f i c ia l  t r i cks  to c l imb out of the i rconst ruct ions  and st i l l  meet  the sur face  ofthe ut terance.Of course,  it is hope less  "to seek mean ingin the phys ica l  p roper t ies  of u t te rances  andformal  p roper t ies  of language.
However ,  thes imple  :\[act is, that speech  is mere ly  no iseunt i l  its potent ia l  mean ing  is appec ia ted  bythe cogn i t ive  ac t iv i ty  of a hearer"(Har r i s /Begg/Upfo ld  (\]6)) .There is a good example  wh ich  shows thatthere  are even cases in wh ich  you cannotdec ide  whether  you are ta lk ing  about  ob jectsor words  or abst rac t  const ruct ions .
S idner(24) in t roduced  the not ion  of "~egni t lvecospec i f i ca t ion"  for the fo l low ing  exampleto show that some anaphors  cannot  berep laced  by a l i tera l  antecedent  in anyprev ious  sentence:"My ne ighbor  has a monster  Har ley  1200They are real ly huge but gas effJ c ientb ikes"Another  good example  for the non-un iquenessof v fsua l  percept ion :  Conc \ ] in  and Mc\])ona\]d( 7 ) t r ied to bu i l t  the i r  techn iques  ofgenerat ing  image descr ip t ions  on theirobservat ions  what  peop\ ]e  found worthdescr ib ing  in photographs .
But what  theseff n terv iewee found sa l ient  was h igh lydependent  of the context  of the request  fordescr ip t ion .
And this is a mat ter  ofp ragmat ics  o "There is no sa l ience  in avacuum" (7) .Th is  d i sc repancy  is ref\] coted a lso inBut terwor th ' s  (5) 5. and  6. max ims for tileI \ ]ngu is t i c  s tudy of conversat ion  wh ichstate:"5.
Let the theory  do the work!6.
Let the phenomena gu ide the theory!
"In Ar t i f i c ia l  In te l l igence  it Js not onlythe pract i ca l  po in t  that normal lyin teract ion  is res t r i c ted  to tile screen, thekeyboard  and the mouse,  that  is, the sur faceof sys tems is the only  v i s ib le  l ink for theuser as wel l  as in p r inc ip le  for theknowledge  eng ineer .
Moreover ,  it isneccessary  to compare  a lways  the behav iourof a sys tem whi th  what  a user  expects  tosee as an ind icat ion  of the expectedfunct ion,  because  it gu ides  the in tu i t ion  ofthe system' s par tner  anyway.
Carefu lconcent ra t ion  on what  the user  sees andexpects  to see even if the sys tem fa i ls  toreact  p roper ly  is one of the best  means  of ap ragmat ica l ly  adequate  t reatment  ofd i scourse  in Ar t i f i c ia l  In te l l igence .Some of the addressed  prob lems can bere formulated  on another  level, asThe 2nd Challenc~-- \ ]n t~rat ion  of In tu i t ionand Idea l i za t ionThe representat ion  of knowledge,  espec ia l l ythe way log ic ians  look at it, has o f ten  beenthe s tar t ing  po in t  of a long d i scuss ion ,  hownatura l ,  how p laus ib le  a spec i f i crepresentat ion  is in compar i son  tounder ly ing  cogn i t ive  processes .
Of courseyou can and shou ld  (at least to keepcons is tency)  map a\] l sys temat icrepresentat ions  onto  a logica l  notat ion .
Butlog ic ians  and l ingu is ts  all  re ly  on the i rin tu i t ion  i n  creat ing  their  s ign i f i cantexamples  and counterexamples  forrepresentat ion  prob lems.
Power  and Mar te l lo( 23 ) c r i t i z i s ing  e thnomethodo logy  say inthe i r  max im (2) : "There is no reason whyin tu i t ions  about  invented  examples  shou ld  beru led out as a method  of invest igat  J ngconversat ion"Why do they argue w i th  in tu i t ion  J n respectto what  they represent  but not in respect  tohow they represent  it?\]it :i s an accepted  :i deal.
J zat ion  amongl inguists ,  logic\] ans and Ar t i f i c ia lIn te l l igence  researchers  that inputsentences  must  f i rs t  be represented  in aninterna l  language.
And than we are at homein our theor ies  and can start  our t r i ckya lgor i thms,  in syntact.ic ana lys is ,  e.g.
wenora l ly  a t tach  the syntact i c  ca tegor ies  tothe input  words  by means  of a "syntact i clex icon" .
_It must  a lways  be c lear  that  allthis is h igh ly  counter in tu i t i ve  for anyna ive  speaker.
We have  in fact  no u l t imatereason for do ing  so except  the argument  thatwe see at the moment  no way to proceed  theinput  in another  ru le -gu ided  way.Normal ly  we have no cogn i t ive  reasons  forchoos ing  exact ly  the representat ions  we use.Cons ider  the J deas of Langacker  ' s ( 21 )"cognit:ive grammer" .
I i Js  ideas, though hemight  be fa l lac ious  about  d rawing  graph icsbe ing bet ter  than wr i t ing  down pred icates  oroperators ,  show that there are lots ofp laus ib le  ways  to ta lk  about  semant ics  andgrammar.
Doubt \ ]ess  we are o f ten bound totopograph ica l  or space-or iented  concepts  inour l ingu is t i c  in tu i t ion .\[t goes w i thout  say ing  that  we unders tandtexts  and sentences  as the pr imary  units,not words  er morphemes  or quant i f J ca t ions .Our  unders tand ing  is suppor ted  by our visualmemory,  by acoust i c  memor ies ,  and by other521complex exper ience in the past.
Only when weare forced to understand tr icky l inguist icor logical examples or must understanddefect ive,  i l l formed or mistyped utterances,(and we have no opportuni ty  to init iate ac lar i f i cat ion  dialogue!
),  only then we willstart up our analyt ic  l inguist ic processorand check rules, endings, posi t ions of wordse tc .
(cf.
exper iments  with garden-path-sentences).There is no point in arguing with theincremental  understanding of sentences by al istener as he hears each word.
We certa in lydo not per form structural  analysis word byword.
At best we check structuralconstra ints  for our semant ic /pragmat ichypotheses.I would even go further.
Presumably theintuit ions do not contain any clear conceptof understanding as long as there are nomisunderstandings  (I wil l  come to this pointlater).
And even then, as Goodman (12)shows, "people must and do resolve lots of(potential) miscommunicat ion  in everydayconversat ion.
Much of it is resolvedsubconsc ious ly  with the l istener unawarethat anything is wrong".El lman (8) even claims that "thec lass i f i cat ion of indirect  speech acts ispr imar i ly  for analyt ic  purposes and it isnot stated anywhere that this c lass i f i cat ionis essential  to the understanding process"To overs impl i fy:  The basic intuit ion of anaive user refers to a SELF and a SYSTEM,which works by telepathy, superf ic ia l lyguided by the l inguist ic  utterance of theuser.What you wil l  object  to is quite clear:" Intuit ion", as used here is a pre-sc ient i f ic  label for all the unsolvedproblems of complexi ty  ar is ing in everyadvanced implementat ion.In a sense you are right, because a lot ofthe unsolved problems might perhaps ar isefrom the fact that the solut ions known sofar are counter intui t ive.
But to be serious,the not ion of intuit ion alone is too vague.We must at least define: the intuit ion ofwhom?
Grosz (13) showed that any appl icat ionor iented natural language interface mustregard the intuit ions (diverging ond i f ferent  levels) of a potential  user aswell  as of the database expert  (knowledgeengineer).Much more general is the object ion thatintuit ions concerning p laus ib i l i ty  of asystem's surface exposed to the user is nota stat ic  affair.
In the course of the workwith a specif ic  system a user will changehis intu i t ions about the appropr iateness  ofits behaviour  and its interpretat ion of theuser's utterances.
As far as I know there isno comparat ive research on the dynamicpragmat ics  of long-term use of a system.A weighty reproach, however, comes from amethodolog ica l  point of view, expressed byCaroll  and Bever (6).
In exper iments ofsemantic adequacy ratings one group of testpersons were heavi ly  biased in theirintuit ion by the fact of s itt ing in front ofa mirror.
This mere matter  of the sett ingchanged the rat ings so much that the resultof one group would fit well to hypotheses ofgeneral semantics whereas the other group'sresult  would rather back generat ive syntax.Such are intuit ions.But in any case l istening to what peoplethink they are doing and the system is doingis one of the most surpr is ing heur ist ics andwe def in i te ly  always need this correct iveinstance to construct  systems which arepragmat ic ly  more adequate.Let us now have a c loser look to theprocess of sc ient i f ic  ideal izat ion:  wenormal ly  do not only start with thetranslat ion of the data in a form which wecan handle, but we also divide the wholeproblem of human discouse into subproblemsand sub-subproblems.
This is, s imi lar to thetranslat ion paradigm, another "good old"tradit ion which we tacit ly accepted; ofcourse, we cannot do everyth ing at the sametime.
But this technical  routine has beeninternal ized in an extremely strong way andis not longer only a crutch of science.
WhatI adress here is the opposi t ion ofpar t icu lar ism and holism.Israel (18) cr i t ic izes the ideal ofmodular i ty  as a concept beeing imported fromtradit ional  l inguist ics and psychology.Their concept ions of correctness aremodular, perhaps because of the lack ofprocedural  theories and the lower degree offormal complexi ty  in their models, becauseof the lack of procedural  representat ions oftheir models by means of implementat ions.
InIsrael 's view the main fal lacy in discoursemodels is that "modular ists" try to solvesyntact ic and semantic processing f irst andthan see what they can do for pragmaticsaddit ional ly.
Even syntax in the theories ofthese hopeless "syntacto-semant icimperial ists" (18) is c learly devided intosentence-by-sentence and level-by- levelprocesses.
And once we have cut the probleminto pieces we forget even to try to fit ittogether again afterwards.In my opinion we are moreover  tooaccustomed to boxes and arcs fori l lustrat ing of our ideas in AI.
F igures asthe fo l lowing corrupt clear communicat ion:I sPoakerl----IE \]----I 'hearort tI.
po  o  ,oo I522In opposit ion to these s impl ist ic  views oflanguage, neurol inguist ics  has shown thatunderstanding is a sort of pattern(re)construct ion working freely throughdi f ferent levels of abstract ion between thelevel of physical percept ion andunderstanding or the react ion respectively.We can apply hol ist ic ideas anywhere:Appelt 's  (i) arguing for uni f icat ion ingrammars as a very elegant way to passpragmatic features through di f ferent levelsof a language processing system is a goodexample.Another example might be the opportunist icplanning by Hayes-Roth and Hayes-Roth (17)which, from a cognit ive point of view, canmodel human planning behaviour in a veryconvincing way.
The fact that they startwith isolated tasks and then put togetherchunks of pre-planned actions is noargument for modular i ty  because there is nointermediate bui lt - in level of completedsubstructures.
So the incremental  strategyof the HEARSAY I I -arehi tecture fits muchbetter to the hol ism of the understandingprocess.Though there might be other good reasons forpreferr ing modular  implementat ions intoday's work: Let us try to achieve again ahol ist ic and intra intui t ive model of humandialogue processes.The 3rd Chal len eg~ Inteqrat ion of Dif ferentSources of P laus ib i l i t \ [The main process of ideal iz ing the data isto evaluate the phenomena in respect totheir importance for further treatment.
Butwhere do the cr i ter ia of this evaluat ionprocess come from?
One poss ib i l i ty  is torely on the background sciences e.g.l inguistics, psychology, sociology etc.In comparison to the 70's there is indeedmuch more cooperat ion with what I cal led thebackground\[ sciences.
As Brady (3) remarkes,Art i f ic ia l  Intel l igence has overcome thefirst years in which we thought that thevery specif ic view and the methodologicalimpl icat ions of Art i f ic ia l  Intel l igence wereso extremely di f ferent from everything inthe past, that we had better start againthinking about language and cognit ion in ourown paradigm.This has become better now even though Ithink that there is too l ittle cooperat ionwith sociology e.g.
in quest ions of partnermodell ing, or mult i -user  effects.There is also a growing interest in AI fromthe other sciences in AI.
Walton (27)expl ic i te ly states, that there is a newinterest of logicians in a logical theory ofdiscourse because of the representat ionalwork done in AI.
There is hope that thiscontact will inf luence the disadvantageoustradit ion of logics to el iminate everythingwhich is not regular enough as some sort ofpragmatic pol lution.Cognit ive psychology, after decades in thedeclarat ive and microexper imental  paradigm(at least in Europe), is trying again tosketch more general and broader cognit ivemodels.However, there are f ields in which discourseanalysis cannot rely on l inguist ics becauseof the miss ing expl ic i tness concerningprocedural  aspects of language (see theDresher/Hornste in  controversy in Cognit ion4,1976 ff).
E.g.
modern l inguist ics is juststart ing to d iscover language generation.But we need even sketchy procedural  modelsof understanding, of generation, ofanaphora, or of spatial percept ion anddescr ipt ion today.And there is the same hol ist ic  reason why wecannot simply take the results ofl inguist ics or psychology and program them:l inguists are not used to construct ingintegral models.
In their paper-and-penci lwork there is no need for expl ic i te lyre lat ing e.g.
the view of page 20 to that ofpage 200.
Implementat ion of d iscourseunderstanding processes ,on the other hand,produces systems in which everything mustfit together.A third argument, however, hits l inguist icsas well as AI: We have no wel l -deve lopedl inguist ics of natural language man-machine-communicat ion.
This means: no theories aboutlanguage acquisit ion, generation,understanding, partner model, pragmatics,etc.
of man-machine-communicat ion.Evidence from mock-up systems, s imulated bypersons, is methodolog ica l ly  vague andmost ly  too isolated from real appl ication.Besides this it is restr icted to short - termresults.
Nobody will play the mock turt lefor months with hundreds of test persons.Of course, l inguists concerned with man-man-interact ion have another interest incognition.
They do not implement theirtheories, or they do so for methodologicalreasons and not for the construct ion ofworking integrated software-systems.
Thishas another result, namely that empir icalwork in l inguist ics is concentrated more onvery genera\] types of discouse (informaldialogues, party smal l - ta lk etc.)
and not somuch on dialogues in the f ields ofappl icat ion in which practical  AI needsnatural dialogue examples.Ki t tredge and Lehrberger (20) broughttogether l inguists and AI people under thenot ion of "sublanguage".
This volume couldhave referred, however, to all the researchon "technical language" or "registers" donein Europe since the early Prague School.Meanwhi le there are avai lable a lot ofdetai led studies, some highly developed,though largely informal theories and a lotof stat ist ic material\[ about communicat ion innon-social  contexts and among experts (for asurvey see v. Hahn (15).523This research invest igates what in AI issometimes neglected: The semantic andsyntact ic  restr ict ions in technicallanguages, the d i f ferences between wr i t tenand spoken language or the effects ofcommunicat ion with non- indiv idualaddressees.Wynn's PhD thesis (28) seems to be one ofthe few empir ical  studies for the americanoff ice setting.Empir ical  work in this f ield is necessaryfor p lausible performance of appl icat ionor iented systems.
McKeown et al (22),a l though she did not invent the l inguist iccharacter is t ics  of their  system but based iton transcr ipts  of actual student advis ingsessions, admits, that "it would bedesirable to have much larger set of plans,knowledge about their base rates andimportance, and addit ional  cr i ter ia fortracking their re levance and l ikel ihooddur ing the interact ion".In the long run we need such research forpract ical  systems even in the start ing phaseof des igning a system.
We will be forced tostart work with very clear functionalspec i f icat ions and wil l  apply much more ofthe techniques of software engineering.Let me close this paragraph with a moreheur ist ic  remark.
Some remarkable progressin procedural  model l ing of human languageabi l i t ies has been achieved by looking atthe problems from the opposite side.I wil l  give some examples of this f igure-ground heurist ics:Falzon et al (9), invest igat ing thecondit ions of "natural" technicalcommunicat ion,  did not look at theunderstanding process of a hearer but at thetechniques of communicat ive experts, howthey guide the the partner in restr ic t inghis or her l inguist ic  activit ies.Wachtel (26) recommends looking at el l ipsisas the unmarked l inguist ic form whereasexpl ic i t  full sentences are to be mot ivatedby a specif ic  context.Webber and Mays (25) as well  as Goodman (12)started to do research on misunderstandingsand misconcept ions  to get an idea of properunderstanding;  instead of the f low ofcont inuous coherent  interchanges Hayes-Rothand Hayes-Roth (17) Grosz and sidner (14)scrut in ized interrupt ions as "a sal ientfeature of cognit ive process ing in general"(17).Harr i s /Beg/Upfo ld  regard semanticunderstanding not as a reconstruct ionprocess: "the hearer does not construct  amessage from components extracted fromspeech but rather narrows down and ref ines amessage by success ive ly  re ject ing aninappropr iate information from a generalmessage" (16).524By the way, this heurist ics holds even forthe style of publ icat ions:  It is a goodtradit ion esp.
in Amer ican reports todiscuss the l imitat ions and the shortcomingsof one's own approach, which is not oftenheeded in European papers.The 4th Chal len eg~ In q~rat ion  of P indinqProcedures, Representat ions,  a nnd Evaluat ionProcessesIn this last paragraph I wil l  fo l low anotherline of the hol ism argument: In contrast  tol inguist ics,  in AI every process must bedef ined on at least three levels.I) how to find in the data thosefeatures addressed by the theory,2) how to represent them3) how to infer on them or toevaluate the representat ionIn the intuit ion of the speaker/hearer  thisis in fact one simple process.
Meta-utterances of speakers never wil l  refer toonly one of these processes.Too much work in d iscourse analysis  lacksone of these three levels.
Of course,specif ic work may concentrate on one aspectwithout e laborat ing the others.
But thearguments for the approach must come fromall three processes.Some examples:You can represent the process of running acar ( a similar example was f irst indroducedby Faught (i0) as a sequence of choices,because one can observe all these actionsand objects:- foot: left / r ight- hand: left / r ight- movement: put on / release /move- device: c lutch / accelerator  /gearshi f t  / brakeBut in real dr iv ing act ions you will neverfind a moment, when a driver has to choosebetween, say, the brake and the clutchdirectly.
There are patternd sequencesrepresent ing the plans of "go faster" or "goslower" etc.
in which the e lementary act ionsoccur on di f ferent  places, but everythingseems to be compi led in some way.Theoret ical  work often starts withstatements like "Let (x(y)z(a)) be therepresentat ion of of the sentence (7c)" Itis nowhere explained by which detect ionprocedures this representat ion can beobtained or whether there is even thesl ightest chance of def in ing an analysisa lgor i thm which maps (7b) onto (x(y)z(a)) .
Iscognit ively p lausib le reasoning poss ib le onthis structure?Empi r i ca l  work  o f ten  s tar ts  w i th  s ta tementsl ike "The speaker  is here s l ight lyin f luenced by the fact that  ..." Does thatmean to in t roduce  some sort  of p red icateSL IGHTLY  INFLUENCED (x,y)?
How can thisspec i f i ca t ion  be found in the l ingu is t i cdata and how can you infer  on that(Fo l lowing But terwor ths  (5) 4th max im"Remember  that  conversat iona l i s ts  ta lk" .
)The t ight  connect ion  of ana lys is ,representat ion  and eva \ ]uat ion  is necessary ,among others ,  because  every  exp lanat ion  ofthe sys tem must  be based on some sort  ofse l f - inspect ion  of the system.
But a sys temcannot  answer  to a request  forc la r i f i ca t ion :  "I cou ld  f ind a d i scourseconst i tuent  un i t  but i was not able toconst ruct  a d i scourse  un i t  out  of it".It is not reasonab le  to address  features  ofdata wh ich  cannot  be represented  in at rac tab le  way and cannot  be eva luated  forp laus ib le  processes  on h igher  levels.
Or toinvent  representat ions  for wh ich  you cannotf ind a mapp ing  f rom the data.what  is the use of an in fe rence  mechan ismefor an natura l  language inter face,  if itcannot  hand le  vague natura l  languagequant i f ie rs  detected  by the parser?We c r i t i c i ze  all these  par t ia l  v iews tod i scouse  unders tand ing  processes  a \ ]so  foranother  reason:We must  show the p laus ib i l i ty  of thedetect ion  procedures ,  the representat ion  andthe in fe rences  a lso  under  the natura lcond i t ions  of mass  data, that: meanse .g .mul t ip le  v iews on a subject ,  orremember ing  and forget t ing .
Most  of theproposa ls  for d ia \ ]ogue  s t ructures  never  haveoccup ied  wi th  the mass  phenomena.
What  wi l lhappen, when all the heterogeneous  deta i l sare represented ,  when you wi l l  have severa lthousand non-un i fo rm in ference  ru les?Of course  we ever wi l l  d i scuss  thorough lythe very  features  of natura l  d ia logues  wh ichwe cannot  hand le  today, and start  w i thf ragments .
But  to propose  e.g.
any arb i t ra ryrepresentat ion  w i thout  connect ion  forwardsand backwards  is on ly  a t iny step towardsthe so lu t ion  of the d i scourse  problems.
Ourknowledge of d i scourse  processes  is at \].eastso that  we cannot  any longer  des ign  i so la teds t ruc tura l  f ragments  of the ana lys i s  andgenerat ion  process .Let me summar ize :  Cogn i t ive ly  soundapproaches  to d i scourse  processes  must  s tar tonce aga in  to take ser ious ly  the user  andhis in tu i t ions  about  man-mach ine-in teract ion .
We must  free our genera lconcepts  f rom the shor tcomings  ofmodu lar i ty ,  that  means  to accept  the equalimpor tance  of d i scovery  procedures ,representat ions ,  and eva luat ion .
There l iab i l i ty  of one of these processes  canonly  be jus t i f ied  by arguments  of bothothers.
We should  exp lo i t  the resu l ts  of thebackground sc iences  l ingu is t i cs ,  psycho logyand social  sc ience  as far as they  suppor t  apragmat ic  and procedura l  v iew of d i scourse .All this to set out  a new pragmat ic  andho l i s t i c  v iew of our natura l ,  f lex ib le ,e f \ [ i c ient  and " whatsoever  " way ofcommunicat ion .Acknow i edgementzs_I am grate fu l  to Tom Wachte \ ]  for essent ia ld i scuss ions  and for rev is ing  the Eng l i shvers ion  of th is  paper.An inv i ta t ion  to the 'maison des sc iences  del 'homme' at Par is  gave me the t ime to wr i tethe paper.The preparat ion  of the paper  was suppor tedby the ESPRIT  pro jec t  LOKI .Re ferences :( \] ) Appe\]  t, D.E.
, TELEGRAM.
A GrammarFormal i sm for Language P lanning.
In: Proc.I JCAI  1983.
595-599.
(2) Berwick,  R.C.,  Computat iona l  Aspects  ofD iscourse .
In: (4).
2"7-87.
(3) Brady, J .M.,  Foreword  in (4).
(4) Brady,  ,\].M.
/ Berwick,  R.C.,Computat iona l  Mode ls  of D iscourse .
Cambr idge(Mass.
):  MIT  Press  1983.
(5) But terwor th ,  B., Max ims for S tudy ingConversat ion .
In: Semiot i ca  24 (1.978) 3/4.3\]7-339.
(6) Caro l l ,  J .M.
/ Bever,  Th.B.
,  The Non-Un iqueness  of L\] ngu is t i c  Intuit\]  ons.
IBMResearch  D iv i s ion  Repor t  RC 6938.
Oct 1978.
(7) Conc l in ,  E.J.
/ McDona ld ,  D., Sa l ience:The Key to the Se lec t ion  Prob lem in Natura lLanguage Generat ion .
In: Proc.
20th ACLMeet ing  1982.
129-135.
(8) E l lman,  J., An Ind i rec t  Approach  toTypes  of Speech  Acts.
\]in: Proc.
I JCAI  1983.600-602.
(9) Fa \ ]zon  , P. / Amalber t i ,  R. / Carbone l l ,N., D ia logue  Contro l  S t ra teg ies  in OralCommunicat ion .
INRIA Repor t  377.
Cent re  deRocquencour t  Versa i \ ] les  March  1985.
(\]0) Faught ,  W.S.,  Conversat Jona \ ]  Ac t ionPat terns  in Dia logs.
In: Waterman / IIayes-Roth (eds.
), Pat tern -D i rec ted  In ferenceSystems.
N.Y 1978.
383-397.
(ll) Fodor,  J .A.
,  Modu lar i ty  of Mind.
AnEssay  on Facu l ty  Psycho logy .
Cambr idge(Mass.
):  M IT  Press  1983.
( \] 2 ) Goodman,  B.A.
, Communicat ion  andMiscommu::dcat ion.
BBN Repor t  1984.525(13) Grosz, B.J., Transportable NaturalLanguage Interfaces: Problems andTechniques.
In: Proc.
20th ACL Meet ing 1982.46-50.
(14) Grosz, B.J.
/ Sidner, C.L., DiscourseStructure and the Proper Treatment ofInterruptions.
In: Proc.
IJCAI 1985.
832-839.
(15) v. Hahn, W., Faehkommunikat ion.
Berlin:de Gruyter 1983.
(16) Harris, G. / Begg, J.
/ Upfold, D., Onthe Role of the Speaker's Expectat ions inInterpersonal  Communicat ion.
In: Journal forVerbal Lerning and Verbal Behaviour 19(1980).
597-607.
(17) Hayes-Roth, B.
/ Hayes-Roth, F., ACognit ive Model of Planning.
In: Cognit iveScience 3 (1979).
275-310.
(18) Israel, D., Preface in (4).
(\].9) Johnson-Laird,  P.N., Mental Models ofMeaning.
In: Joshi / Webber / Sag (eds.
),Elements of Discourse Understanding.Cambridge (Mass.
): MIT Press 1981.
106-126.
(20) Kittredge, R. /Lehrberger,  J.
(eds.),Sublanguage.
Studies of Language inRestr ic ted Semantic Domains.
Berlin: deGruyter  1982.
(21) Langacker, R., An Introduct ion toCognit ive Grammar.
In: Cognit ive Science i0(1986) 1-40.
(22) McKeown, K. / Wish, M. / Matthews, K.,Tai lor ing Explanat ions for the User.
In:Proc.
IJCAI 1985.
794-798.
(23) Power, R. /dal Martel lo, M.F., Methodsof Invest igat ing Conversat ion.
In: Semiot ica53 (1985) 1/3.
237-257.
(24) Sidner, C., Focusing in theComprehens ion of Def in i te Anaphora.
In: (4).267-330.
(25) Webber, B.
/ Mays, E., Var iet ies ofUser Misconcept ions:  Detect ion andCorrection.
In: Proc.
IJCAI 1983.
650-652.
(26) Wachtel,  Tom, Discourse Structure.LOEI-Report  NLI i.I Research Unit forInformation Sc.and AI, Univ Hamburg.
April1985.
(27) Walton D. N., New Direct ions in theLogic of Dialogue.
In: Synthese 63 (1985).259-274.
(28) Wynn, E.H., Off ice Conversat ion as anInformation Medium.
PhD Univ.
of Cal i forniaBerkeley 1979.
Ann Arbor: UMI 1985.526
