Lexieal Database Design:The Shakespeare  D ic t ionary  ModelH.
Joachim NeuhausWestf~ilische Wilhelms-Universit~it, FB 12D-4400 Mfinster, West Germany1.
The DataThe S'hakespgare Dt'citbnar~/ (SHAD) project hasbeen using structured atabases ince 1983.
The system isimplemented on a PRIME 250-II computer using standardCODASYL--DBMS software and related tools.
The projecthas been able to draw on a vast repository of computerizedmaterial dealing with Shakespeare and the English lexicon.Initially, it was part of the "Sonderforschungsbereich I00Elektronische Sprachforschung" sponsored on the nationallevel by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft.
Theresearch team has been directed by Marvin Spevack and H.Joachim Neuhaus, now both at Miinster, and ThomasFinkenstaedt, now at Augsburg.
Spevack's O'oraplete andSyateraah'c ~oncordanoe to the Works o/ ,~hakospeare(Hildesheim and New York, 1968-1978) and Finkenstaedt'sOhronalogt~al En\]h)h Dichonarj/ (Heidelberg, 1970), both inmachine readable form, were used in a computer-assistedlemmatization procedure (Spevack, Neuhaus, and Finken-staedt 1974).A chronologically arranged dictionary, where entriesare sorted according to the year of first occurrence, makesit possible to "stop" the development of the recordedEnglish vocabulary at any desired moment and to compare,for instance, Shakespeare's vocabulary with the corpus ofEnglish words recorded up to 1623, when the F, ist Fohbappeared (Neuhaus 1978).
The set of words in Shakespearecan be compared with the complement set of wordsavailable in Elizabethan English, but not attested inShakespeare's works.
In this way there is a systematicintegration into the total vocabulary.
As a result, ourdatabase model can easily be expanded or transfered tocover larger or different vocabularies.In order to present the complete Shakespeareanvocabulary and to disengage SHAD from dependence on asingle edition of Shakespeare, the data were expanded toinclude all :Jtage directions and speech-prefixes in allquartos up to and including the F,'r,,t Foho (Volume VII ofthe ~omple~e and o?yaJ!emait~ Ctoncordance to the Workso/ S'hakesI, eare ), and the "bad" quartos (Volume VIII).Volume IX presents all substantive variants, producing acomposite Shakespearean vocabulary in modern andeventually old spelling.In analysing this material a strict differentiationbetween vocabulary level and text level has been observed.Further data-preparation on the vocabulary levelconcentrated on formal properties of Shakespeareanlemmata, such as morphological structure, or etymologicalbackground.
There is a complete morphology for all lemmata(ca.
20,000 records), which gives detailed structuraldescriptions of derivations, compounds, and othercombinations, as well as all inflected word-forms, as theyoccur in the text.
The etymological data include wordhistories and loan relations, again supplemented bychronological data.
Content-oriented criteria were used in ataxonomic lassification of all lemmata (Spevack 1977).
Onthe whole, there are more than thirty fields of informationin the original emma-record file.
For the multidimensionalanalysis and presentation of these resources it seemednatural to use database concepts.Due to a special intervention of the DeutscheForschungsgemeinschaft and the support of the Ministry,which we both gratefully acknowledge, we could implementour first database in 1983 on a newly installed PRIME250-II computer.
The PRIME DBMS software, which weuse, is actually one of the first commercial products whichclosely adhered to the CODASYL network data model.The design started with a database schema forShakespearean word-formation and etymology.
Since thenthe system has grown steadily including now a thesaurusstructure and a link to the text itself.
The database isaccessed in batch mode u:~zing the FORTRAN and COBOLinterfaces, and interactively with the VISTA query languageand report generator.
Of course, in a first implementationnot only the database schema itself, but the preparation offiles, and the programming of the database creation job haveto be carried out.
The first word-formation database wasestablished in three separate steps.
The total time neededto complete the job was about 17 hours.
Physical design isespecially important in large databases.
Our Miinster teamwas interested in that aspect from the very beginning (DSge1984).2.
Prelirainary Design ConsiderationsLinguists and lexicographers are latecomers to thefield of database applications.
Database software has beenavailable since the early 1960's.
The early 1970's brought awide variety of commercial products and a consolidation onthe conceptual side, which ultimately led to standardization,design philosophies, and specifications of "normal forms".
Atthat time lexicographers still used the concept of an archivewhen talking about new technologies, uch as Barnart (1973),Chapman (1973), and Lehmann (1973) at the 1972International Oon/grence on Le$1~ojzraphy in EnC/tsh.Similarly, in the late 1970'% we witnessed preparations for aStanford Computer Archive of Language Materials.
There isnothing wrong with the idea of an archive.
But a database is441something different.
By now, the expression "database"should only be used as a technical term.
Perhaps "databank" may be used instead of "database" when talking aboutfiles of data, or archives in a conventional sense.
TheAs~oosal:an /or lh'terary and .L:nym'~hv Oorayult'ny mayhave had this clarification in mind when naming its specialistgroup "Structured Data Bases".Although hierarchical data models and networkmodels had been available since the early 1960s, andrelational architectures since the early 1970s (Codd 1970),software implementations were not generally accessible inuniversity computing eentres due to high cost, and lack ofspecial support.
Although the Mfinster computing centrehad the hierarchical IMS software, a product of IBM, it wasnot made available for our project.
Looking back from today,that may not have been a handicap for at least two reasons:lexical relationships are only rarely hierarchical in a naturalsense, and, more importantly, hierarchical systems do nothave a common standard.
There is no migration path fromone software product to another.
Since a Shakespearedatabase will have a rather long life cycle, and was meant obe a model for similar projects, the requirement of astandard model seemed to be imperative.
The process ofstandardization has been proceeding more rapidly for theCODASYL network model than for any other architecture.In the early 1980s there was just this model that fulfilledour requirements, and this is basically true even today.Beginning with the early 1980'$ lexical symposia andconferences had an ample share of papers reporting onongoin/~ research which used the database concept in avariety of ways.
In 1981 Na~ao et al reported on "AnAttempt to Computerize Dictionary Data Bases" (198~).
Atthe same conference a University of Bonn group (Brustkernand Hess 1982) presented "The BonnIex Lexicon System",which two years later evolved into a "Cumulated Word DataBase for the German Language" \[Brustkern and Schulze1983).
A list of similar projects could easily be extended.One might have expected that the logical design of lexicaldatabases would have built on structural ~ wherewe typically find entities and relationships, and in general,set theoretic notions, which can directly be translated intoconceptual data-structures.Surprisingly, in many designs, linguistic considerationsdid not seem to have played a major role.
Instead, theauthors simulate conventional lay-out and typesettingarrangements of printed dictionaries.
An example is thewidespread ictionary usage to print one "Headword" in boldtype and then use special symbols, such as the tilde, torefer to the headword, or parts of it, thus saving space forthe treatment of further lexical items with the samespelling.
Nagao et al (1982} very faithfully transfered thisand other lay-out details into their design.
But should aconventional "Headword" and its dependencies be a seriouscandidate for a database ntity?
Are the reasons that leddictionary publishers to accept certain lay-out techniques atall relevant for an electronic database?
These questionsseem not to have been raised.
The design seems to have442SYSTBMISystem-to-MorphemeSystem-to-Ailomorph_ _ \[ Morpheme-to-Aliomorph.
.
.
.
.
I A\[,bOMORPH I.~ I Allomorph-to-SegmentSBQMBNTSystem-to-Lemmat \[ LBMMALemma-to-SegmentFigure 1.
Data-Structure for Morphological Families( SHAD, database fragment}become a paradigm case of an imitation design, where a newtechnology replicates design features of an older technology.The basic misunderstanding is the false identification of amere presentation i a printed dictionary with an underlyinglexical information structure.If the "Headword" is not a relevant database ntity,which entity should be taken instead?
There is only oneserious candidate: the lemma.
The lemma is a well definedlinguistic notion.
It is also weI\[ known in computational workdue to various automatic or semi-automatic lemmatizationalgorithms.
It is an abstract notion in the sense that printeddictionaries and database systems need a lemma-name torefer to it.
Language specific conventions usually govern thechoice of a lemma-name.
Latin verbs, for example, arecustomarily lemmatized using the first person singularpresent form as lamina-name.
A \[emma is the set of all itsinflected word-forms.
It thus comprises a completeinflectional paradigm.
Some lemmata have defectiveparadigms or suppletive paradigms.
Conventional dictionariesquite often include paradigmatic information in their frontmatter.
The user has to relate specific cases to theseexamples.
A database can relate these explicitly.
A naturalway to do this is by a one-to-many relationship betweenlemma and word-form.
In an author dictionary word-formswill be further related to the text, and its internal structure.A machine-readable dictionary is just a startingpoint for a structured lexical database.
\[n the Bonn "WordData Base for the German Language" (Brustkern andSchulze 1983b} there is but one database ntity, "LexicalEntry", which seems to correspond to the lemma ratherthan to a "Headword".
The authors speak about the"microstructure" and the "macrostructure" in respect to"Lexical Entries", but only the former is discussed in detail.The later is only mentioned once: "Special characteristics ofthe macrostructure (other than alphabetical order} are to bemade explicit in the logical structure of the data base"(Brustkern and Schulze 1983b}.
"Macrostructure" is rarelyvisible in a conventional alphabetic dictionary, although weare used to "synonyms" and "antonyms", dictionary "senses",and labels that identify technical jargon, or specialterminologies in individual dictionary entries.
In the designof a lexical database it is useful to make these variousrelations between lemmata explicit.
In this manner a usergets more information than by consulting a printeddictionary.
The information he gets is related and structuredin unexpected ways.3.
A Sample SchemaThere are various ways to approach the problem ofschema design.
For the 5'habe~peare Diits'anarj~ MorphologyDatabase, now an integrated part of the overall architecture,both object-class methods and query-assertion methodslead to the current schema (cf.
Figure 1).
There are fourbase object-classes (entities}: lemmata, segments,allamoryh,~, and raaryheme.~ having cardinality valuesbetween 2,500 and 40,000 records.
Queries were to allow fora direct retrieval on three levels: the conventional level ofthe lemma, the level of allomorphs, and the morphemiclevel.
This i:~ achieved by a virtual record, defined as asubschema (cf.
Figure 2}.
In this way the database designmirrors a structural morphological analysis directly.
Theconcept of a moryho/a~7#~a/ /amt/jf defined as a set oflemmata which has at least one morpheme in common isthus immediately accessible for database queries.The ultimately Latin prefix { IN-  } has, for example,database links to allomorphs uch as { im- } in the lemmaimpure, { il- } in the lemma illegitimate, or { it-  } in thelemma irregular.
In Shakespeare's vocabulary there arealmost 200 lemmata which belong to this { IN'- } family.
Astatistical survey of morphological families in Shakespeare,reveals characteristic "family types".
Since morphologicaldescriptions are directly accessible for a study of patternssuch as nominal compounds, conversions, or derivations,listings of morphologically similar lemmata supplement family/-~.
~-/VIRTUAL RECORD SECTION.VIRTUAL RECORD MORPHEME-TO-LEMMA;BASE RECORD IS  SEGMENT;MORPHEME OWNS ALLOMORPHV IA  MORPHEME-TO--ALLOMORPH;ALLOMORPH OWNS SEGMENTV IA  ALLOMORPH-TO-SESMENT;LEMMA OWNS SEGMENTV IA  LEMMA-TO-SEGMENT.Figure 2.
Virtual Record for Morphological FamiliesSHAD database subschemaMorpheme { SPEAK )Allomorph { speak }Frequency Datingvb.
speak 111 Oldeng.bespeak 13 Oldeng.mis--speak 1 1200forspeak 1 1800n.
speaker 11 1303vb.
unspeak 4 1340adj.
unspeakable 5 1400pp.
false--speaking 2 1598 SONvb.
respeak 1 1600 HAMoutspeak 1 1603Allomorph { spok- }pp.
well--spoken 3 1400fair-spoken 1 1460n.
spokesman 1 1540pp.
foul-spoken 1 1593 TITAllomorph { speech }n. speech 159 Oldeng.adj.
speechless 15 Oldeng.Shakespeare Datings:HAM Hamlatj SON Sann~/6 TIT Ettu~ Andromcu,~Figure 3.
A Morphological Family in Shakespeare'sVocabularylistings in a study of the morphological articulation ofShakespeare's vocabulary.
The database has access tovarious additional and specialized kinds of morphologicalinformation such sound symbolism, popular etymology, orcontamination.
Furthermore, morphological information is bydesign linked with etymological information.
Morphologicalfamilies which are etymologically related can be groupedtogether under one etymon.
One example for such anetymological grouping is given in Figure 4.
The phenomenonof etymologically homogeneous or disparate word-formation,which has traditionally been of some interest inShakespearean studies czn be analysed directly.
Thesematerials are currently being prepared for the forthcomingfirst volume of SHAD.Any lexical database design should account forexternal inks with other lexical databases (Neuhaus 1985).Here again, a common standard is essential The /gramaretard is a natural interface in these external relations.Standardization of the lemma concept may therefore be afirst step for systematic database connections.443Frequency DatingFamily I roR lvb.
trow 17 Oldeng.n.
troth 111 1175vb.
betroth 12 1303ad j .
troth-plight 2 1830n.
troth-plight 1 1513pp.
new-trothed 1 1598pp.
fair-betrothed 1 1607Family lrurPn.
truce 15 1225Family I F l l t  ~adj.
true 849 Oldeng.adv.
truly 180 Oldeng.n.
truth 361 Oldeng.adj.
untrue 70ldeng.n.
untruth 40ldeng.n.
true-love 10 800n.
true 36 1300pp.
true-hearted 3 1471pp.
truer-hearted 1 1471n.
truepenny 1 1519pp.
true-born 2 1589pp.
true-anointed 1 1590pp.
true-derived 1 1592pp.
true-disposing I 1592pp.
true-divining 1 1593pp.
true-telling 1 1593pp.
true-devoted 1 1594adj.
honest-true 1 1596pp.
true-begotten 1 1596pp.
true-bred 3 1596pp.
true-fixed 1 1599pp.
true-meant I 1604Family trtt ln.
trust 1 1225vb.
trust 22 1225adj.
trusty 21 1225n.
mistrust 9 1374vb.
mistrust 14 1374vb.
distrust 3 1430n.
distrust 3 1513ad j .
mistrustful 2 1529adj.
trustless 1 1530n.
truster 2 1537n.
self-trust 1 1588ad j .
distrustful 1 1589Figure 4.
Etymological Grouping ofFamilies444four MorphologicalReferencesBarnhart, Clarence L. "Plan for a Central Archive forLexicography in English."
In Annals o/ the Hew YorkAcademy o~ ,fct'~ncea, No.
211 (1975), pp.
302-306.Brustkern, J. and K. H. Hess.
"The Bonnlex LexiconSystem:" In iextcography tn the Electrontc A\]e. Ed.
JGoetschalckx and L. Rolling.
Amsterdam: North-Holland,1982, pp.
38-40.Brustkern, J. and W. Schulze.
"Towards a Cumulated WordData Base for the German Language."
Prec.
SixthInternational Conference on Computers and the Humanities.6-8 June 1983.
Raleigh, North Carolina.
"The Structure of the Word Data Base for theGerman Language."
Prec.
International Conference on DataBases in the Humanities and Social Sciences.
10-12 June1983.
New Brunswick, New Jersey.Chapman, Robert L. "On Collecting for the CentralArchive."
In Annals el the t, rew York Academy o/~qcs~ncgs, No.
211 (1975}, pp.
307-311.todd, E. F. "A Relational Model of Data for Large SharedData Banks," ~ornmunlcahbns el the ACA~, 13.6 (1970),377-887.D6ge, Michael.
Problems clues EODAEYi-Datenbank-systems, dargestellt am Bstaptel des DBMS-,~oflware-Pakelas der Ft?ma PRIME.. Miinster, 1984.Finkenstaedt, Thomas.
A ~hronolocteal EnghshDschbnary.
Z:ahn?
@0~000 f?ords m Order o/ theirEarfiest Known Occurrence.
Heidelberg, 1970 (with ErnstLeisi, Dieter Wolff).Lehmann W. P. "On the Design of a Central Archive forLexicography in English."
In Anna# el the tIew YorkAcademy o/,re:knees, No.
211 (1975}, pp.
312-317.Nagao, M. et al "An Attempt to Computerize DictionaryData Bases."
In Ieztco.craphy tn the Electronlc Age.
Ed.
JGoetschalckx and L. Rolling.
Amsterdam: North-Holland,1982, pp.
51-78.Neuhaus, H. Joachim.
"Author Vocabularies compared withChronological Dictionaries."
Bullehn el the Assoc,'ahb, /orZderary and itn#m~hc Computing, 6 (1978) 15-19.
"Design Options for a Lexical Database of OldEnglish."
Problems el Old Enghah ie.r~cofraphy.
Ed.
AlfredBammesberger.
Eichst~tter Beitfiige 115.
Regensburg, 1985,197-210.Spevack, Marvin.
A Uom?1ele and ~qyalemahcConcordance to the Works el Shakeap#are.
9 volumes.Hildesheim, 1968-1980.
"SHAD: A Shakespeare Dictionary," #omlmter~ ,nthe tIumamh~s.
Ed.
J. L. Mitchell.
Edinburgh, 1974, 111-123.
(with Th.
Finkenstaedt, H. J. Neuhaus)"SHAD \[A Shakespeare Dictionary).
Toward aTaxonomic Classification of the Shakespeare Corpus.
"~omyuhny tn the Arnmandtba.
Proceedings el /he Th/rdInternahonal O'on/erenee on O'ompul:n?
tn thetfuman,h'es.
Ed.
Serge Lusignan and John S. North.Waterloo, Ontario, 1977, 107-114.
