Def in i te  Noun Phrases  and  the  Semant ics  of  D iscourseManfred Pinkalc/o Fraunhofer-lnstitut IAOHolzgartenstrasse 17,D 7000 Stuttgart 1andInstitut f~r LinguistikUniversitfit Stuttgart1.
IntroductionDiscourse Representation Theory (DRT), developed by HansKamp several years ago (Kamp 1981), belongs, together withIrene Heims narrowly related File Change Semantics (Heim 1982)and Situation Semantics (Barwise/Perry 1983), to a grovp oftheoretical approaches which in the early Eighties introduced adynanfic, context-oriented perspective into the semantics of naturallanguage.
This recent development in theoretical semanticsindicates ashift of interest towards topics that have been familiarin natural language processing research for the last decade: amongothers, the inteq~retation f new utterances with respect to a givencontext, and integration of the utterance information into thatcontext; the step-by-step construction of representations for largerpieces of discourse; the investigation of text coherence phenomena;and the description of referential processes.The corn of DRT (and File Change Semantics) is the treatment ofindefinite noun phrases as reference stablishing terms (as opposedto their standard truth-conditional quantifier analysis, but inaccordance with the treatmant of indefinites in NLP research) anddefinite noun phrases (pronouns as well as full NPs) as anaphoricexpressions.
It is one of the theoretically most appealing featuresof these theories that they provide simple unified accounts for allindefinites, and for all definites, respectively.
This theoreticalsimplicity stands however in sharp contrast o the complexity ofthe process of etablishing reference observed in NLP research, andthe variety of phenomena and linguistic levels involved.
On the onehand, this contrast is quite natural: As a semantically motivatedtheow, DRT should not be expected to incorporate every detail ofinferencing necessary to come up with an interpretation for aspecific utterance in a given context; it can better be thought of asan interface relating theoretical, truth-conditional semantics and thegenuinely pragmatic work of text understanding.
On the otherhand, if DRT is seriously intended to bridge the gap betweentheoretical linguistics and the NLP approach, it should take intoconsideration as many factual restrictions on NP reference, anddistinctions among subtypes of referential expressions, as ispossible in a systematic and descriptive way.
Several extensions ofthe standard system are at work, e.g.
for the treatment of pluraland temporal anaphora.
Little, however, has yet been done toarrive at a closer view of the analysis of (singular) definite nounphrases, once the basic concepts had been established.
The onlyattempt I know about is by Kamp himself, described in Kamp(1983), an unpublished fragment.In this talk I will first give a short overview of the basic DRTsystem, and sketch Kamp's proposal for the treatment of definitenoun phrases.
Then I will indicate how the basic referenceestablishing function and the "side-effects "of different ypes ofdefinite NPs can be described in more detail.
In doing this, I willrefer to the work about anaphora done in the NLP area (esp.
byBarbara Grosz, Candy Sidner, and Bonnie Webber), integratingsome of their assnrnptions into the DRT framework, and criticallycomanenting on some others.2.
"File Framework of Discourse Representation TheoryTo illustrate the basic principles of DRT, let us look at thefollowing two-sentence t xt:(1) (a) John owns a book.
(b) He reads it.In an utterance of (1 a), two discourse referents (DRs) areintroduced by the NPs John and the book, and several dataconcerning these referents are communicated.
These facts about (1a) are represented by the "discourse representation structure'(DRS)K1 under (2 a), which consists of a universe of discourse (U K ) aswell as a set of conditions (CONK) on the members of U K,(2) KI:John (x)| x owns y |DRSes are built up by DRS construction rules, which operate on astraightforward phrase-structure analysis of the sentence, and aresensitive to the context of utterance.
DRSes for texts are construedby sequentially analysing sentence by sentence, referring to theDRS built up so far as the context of utterance, and extending thisDRS by the discourse referents and conditions emerging from theapplication of the construction rules to the sentence underconsideration.
Sentence (1 b) requires application of a very simplecontext-sensitive construction rule, the rule for anaphoricpronouns, which can roughly be formulated as (3):(3) (i) Add a new DR x to U,~ (K being the current DRS).
(ii) Replace the anaphoric pronoun in the (syntactic descriptionof) the constituent under consideration by x.
(iii) Add x = y as a new condition, for some DR y alreadycontained in UI{.The crucial part of this rule is clause (iii) which says that thepronoun should be anaphorically linked to a referent alreadypresent in the context of utterance.
By applying (3) twice to (1 b),the DRS K1 is extended to K2.The author is Heisenberg fellow of the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft.368(4) K2:xyzuJohn (x)x owns ybook (y)X=Zx reads uu=yThe step-by-step construction of a DRS for a given text is the firstpart of its semantic analysis.
The analysis is completed byembedding the DRS representing the text information into aconventional first-order model structure.
A proper embedding is afunction from 1J/~ to the model universe, assigning real-worldobjects to DRs in a way that all conditions of the DRS are satisfied.A text is true if a proper embedding for its DRS exists.
Thus, theembedding provides a truth-conditional background for the DRSformalism.
E.g., it indirectly provides the indefinite NP a book in(1 a), the function of which is described as introduction of a newreferent on the DRS level, with its usual existential inteq~retation.Conditionals, universal quantifiers, negation require a DRSanalysis in terms of complex conditions on sub-DRSes.
Sentence(5), e.g., is represented by the DRS (6), where the left-band boxis the sub-DRS representing the antecedent, and the right-hand boxrepresents he consequent of (5).
(5) If John owns a book, he reads it.
(6)XJohn (x)I YI xownsy  I ===>I book (y) \[Universal sentences like (7) are represented by the same type ofcomplex DRSes.
(7) Every man who owns a book reads it.The embedding rule for => - conditions requires, roughlyspeaking, that every proper embedding for the antecedent sub-DRScan be properly extended to the consequent sub-DRS.
By this, theindefinite NP a book in (5), which on the DRS-level has identicalfunction with a book in (1 a), i.e.
DR introduction, is correctlyinterpreted as a universal qnantifier.The internal structure of DRSes allows one to formulate animportant restriction on the use of anaphoric expressions: DRsintroduced in sub-DRSes must not be anaphorically accessed fromoutside.
This restriction excludes acontinuation of (5) or (7) by asentence like (8):(8) It has 200 pages.Accessible for anaphoric linking in a DRS K is UN itself, theuniverse of all superordinate DRSes, and, possibly, the universeof the antecedent DRS (if K represents a consequent of aconditional), but nothing else.
This restriction seems to be more orless valid for all kinds of anaphoric expressions; i will not discussproblematic cases here (cf., however, Sells 1985).
Instead, I willlook at the way Kamp further differentiates between different typesof anaphoric noun phrases.3.
Definite Noun Phrases in DRTIn his 1983 paper, Kamp distinguishes between four kinds ofdefinite noun phrases:(i) pronouns (personal and possessive),(ii) complex demonstratives (this woman, that man who wore agrey coat); bare demonstratives, which have a ratherrestricted istribution i  English, are left out of considerationby Kamp as well as in this paper),(iii) definite descriptions (the book, the professor who teaches acourse on semantics),(iv) functional definite descriptions (the king of Spain, the authorof Waverley), which make up a seperate class of definiteNPs and allow elliptic use (the king, the author).For each of these classes, Kamp states a distinction between adeictic and an anaphoric use, and thus ends up with eight differenttypes of definite noun phrases.
The distinction drawn by Kampbetween deixis and anaphora is the traditional one: Anaphofic usesof definite NPs refer to an antecedent introduced by the previousdiscourse; deictic uses of definite NPs refer to an object which isphysically present in the situation of utterances, the identificationbeing typically snpported by a demonstrative g sture.Anaphora is interpreted in the way that file new discourse referentintroduced for the anaphoric expression is li~tked by equation to anappropriate discourse referent already contained in the DRS, aswas shown above for the pronoun case.
DRs introduced fordeictically used NPs are anchored to an individual of the real-worldmodel, an anchor being an ordered pair <x,a> consisting of adiscourse referent x and an object a.
This basic constructionschema for deictic expressions in DRT is not very explanatory;also, deixis is of minor importance to natural language systems(as long as no graphic component is involved).
Therefore, I willnot go into details of Kamp's description here, but only indicate ina few words the intelpretations a signed to the four classes ofdeictically used NPs.Deictically used pronouns (~)  are anchored to "the objectdemonstrated by the deictic act accompanying the utterance ofd~ " (p. 57).
Deictically useddemonstratives this~that oL anddeictically (oi": refbrentially) used definite descriptions the oL referto "the unique satisfier\[of the common-noun phrase~\] among theobjects in the range of the deictic act accompanying the use of thedemonstrative" (p. 57).
Deictically used elliptic functionaldescriptions the ~L are interpreted accordingly;however, the objectsingled out by the deictic act, or uniquely given by the situation ofutterance, does not serve as the referent of the description directly,but instead as the argument of the functional common noun d~,thus providing a new referent.
I will come back to the generalproblem of the deixis/anaphora distinction later.
In the following,I will concentrate on the anapboric uses of definite NPs.The construction rule for anaphoric pronouns has been describedalready.
An new discourse referent is introduced and linked to oneof the accessible old referents in the DRS.
For the interpretation fanaphorically used complex demonstratives, the DRS concept isaugmented by a Lewis style salience ranking on the set ofdiscourse referents (cf.
Lewis 1979).
The discourse referent forthe demonstrative NP this ot or that oL is, roughly speaking, linkedto the most salient referent already contained in the DRS whichsatisfies the common-noun phrase ~,  Satisfaction of oL by xroughly means that the predication ~(x) follows from the dataavailable in K about x, possibly using additional backgroundknowledge.
Kamp assumes that the typical use of demonstrativesis contrasfive; in general, this ~ implicates that there are otherindividuals besides the one referred to which also are ~/,.369Anaphoric definite descriptions, on the contrmT, carry kind of auniqueness presupposition.
They may only be properly used ineases where exactly one of the objects relevant in a context satisfiesthe description.
Since additional satisfying objects introducedearlier in discourse may prove to be irrelevant for the appropriateuse of the description, Kamp further extends the DRS concept by aselection set which is a subset of the DRS universe.
(Selection setswere first employed in Cresswell 1973.)
The selection set alayscontains, roughly speaking, an upper portion of the salienceranking <, possibly all of its members.
An anaphorically useddefinite description is linked to its unique satisfier that is memberof the selection set.
- Elliptic functional definite descriptions takethe most salient discourse referent already contained in the DRS asargument of the functional common noun, and link the functor-argument expression to the newly introduced referent.To sum up, the full formalism employed for the treatment ofdefinite NPs consists of(i) the DRS K with its universe U K (possibly containing ahierarchy of sub-DRSes and their espective universes)(ii) a salience ranking <~ on Ut~(iii) a selection set S ~UK, and(iv) the universe of the real world model needed for theinterpretation f deictically usext NPs.There are some open questions connected with these formal toolsand their interrelation, e.g.
how the salience ranking extends to theuniverse of sub-DRSes.
Since a technically correct answer to thesequestions eems to be unproblematic, and a really explanatorysolution would require a specification of an adjustment algorithmfor salience ranking and selection set, which Kamp deliberatelyexcludes from his semantic onsiderations, I will not go into muchdetail here.
Rather, I will concentrate upon some inadequacies inthe basic assumptions tmderlying Kamp's interpretation f definitenoun phrases, which require modifications of the over-allframework in several respects.The probably most striking inadequacy concerns the relationbetween pronouns and definite descriptions with respect o theiranaphoric range.
According to Kamp's account, pronouns can linkto all discourse referents already introduced into the cun'ent DRSand its super-ordinate DRSes, whereas the range of definitedescriptions i  limited by the selection set (the anaphoric power ofdemonstratives is restricted by </4, and thus lies somehow inbetween pronouns and descriptions).
Actually, the relation is justthe opposite one: Pronouns are highly restricted, whereas the rangeof definite descriptions is nearly universal, as long as theuniqueness condition is not seriously affected.
I will try to give analternative account of the different NP types in terms of theirspecific anaphoric behaviour taking results of AI work onanaphora into consideration.
I will look at pronouns, definitedescriptions, and demonstratives, in this order.4.
Pronominal Anaphora and the Locality ConstraintIn the standard fragment of DRT, anaphoric linking of pronouns isonly restricted by the basic accessibility relation.
Some additionalrestrictions, esp.
agreement requirements, can easily be added by asortal classification of discourse referents (for number agreement,see van Eijck 1983, for semantic gender in English, see Johnson/Klein 1985).
Another kind of semantic onstraint on anaphoriclinking is indirectly provided by the model-theoretic background ofDRT: Anaphoric links which lead to an inconsistent extension ofthe CUlTent DRS, prevent embedding into a model structure andthus induce a reanalysis.
The relation of DRT and syntacticconstraints on anaphora is discussed in Chierehia/Rooth (1984).Another important restriction, however, concerning the supra-sentential use of pronominal anaphora, has not been noticed in theliterature on discourse semantics: the strict llmitation of thebackward reach of pronouns.
Whereas fitll NPs can refer toarbitrarily remote antecedents, acceptability of pronominalanaphors becomes worse with each additional sentence utteredbetween pronoun and antecedent.
An easy and straightforwardaccount of this fact seems to be provided by a widely acceptedassumption about he relation between pronouns and full definiteNPs: pronouns are minimal, naked descriptions; full NPs are kindof extended pronouns.
Both NP types make reference to the samesalience ranking ( disregard Kamp's selection set analysis, for themoment).
Full NPs may incorporate lots of information i  terms ofmodifiers of different kinds; this enables them to go arbitrarily fardown on the salience scale.
Pronouns, on the other hand, bear nodiscriminating information, and thus have to refer to the very firstdiscourse referent on the scale that meets the consistency andagreement requirements.
Each intervening object introduced indiscourse prevents a linking to a more remote referent.Persuasive though it is , the explanation does not meet thephenomena.
Look at the following example:(9) (a) Yesterday afternoon, I went shopping.
(b) I bought an interesting book on semantics.
(c) Afterwards, I met some fiiends.
(d) In the evening, I went dancing with Mary, and we camehome late.
(e) It was midnight when I started reading it.The pronoun it in (9 e) sounds definitely peculiar, and thingsdon't become much better if the intervening text is reduced inlength.
However, the book of (9 b) is the only inanimate referentexplicitly introduced so far, and therefore should be on top of thesalience ranking, the book (as well as that book) instead of it in (9e) is perfectly fine, although the common noun does not provideadditional information in the situation under consideration,particularly if one takes into account that the choice is restricted toreadable objects.
Furthermore, look at (10), as an alternative to (9e).
(10) It was after mid-night when I started reading.Here, the hearer will easily infer from the previous discourse thatthe omitted object is the book from (9 b).
It does not matter for myargument that this inference is just default and can be explicitlydenied by the next utterance: The book is the most salientcandidate, and an easily recoverable one, too.
So, the oddity of thepronoun use in (9) must have a different reason.
The only reason Ican see is that the supposed antecendent is simply too old.Different from full noun phrases, anaphoric pronouns must findtheir antecedent in the local linguistic ontext, roughly speaking, inthe sentence in which they occur, or in the immediately precedingsentence, independently of what the over-all salience ranking lookslike.
If a referent is not rementioned, it soon drops out of the"current universe"for p onominal anaphora.To integrate the locality constraint into DRT, several changes are inorder.
A concept of current universe CUamust be employed, CU~,being a distinguished subpart of the universe of discourse andconsisting of a current-sentence position (CUo,~?)
and a last-sentence position (CU s,,?).
(11) CUt~ ~ U KCU K = CUo,~u CU1,~New referents are introduced as members of CU .
The syntacticdescription is completed by an end-of-sentence marker, and thefollowing construction rule for this marker is added.370(12) Set CUt ~ toCU0,~Set CUb, j< toNote, that only the topmost DRS is affected by this rule.
Forsubordinate DRSes no current universe management is necessarybecause their discourse referents become inaccessible before theyget old.
Finally, the consU'uction rule for anaphoric pronounsneeds a slight reformulation; (3) (iii) has to be replaced by:(13) Add x = y to K for some y ~ CU KThis is only a first attempt to fix the local range of pronominalanaphora.
Much would have to be said to the outer boundary of thecmTent universe (the end-of-sentence marker being only a crudeapproximation to an adequate concept of local text structure) aswell as to its internal structure, to which I will come back later.However, there are several basic objections and apparent counter-examples to the locality constraint on pronominal anaphora, whichi will shortly comment on, now.
First of all, there is the objectionthat a hearer of (9) is able to assign the correct reference to thepronoun despite its oddity.
This statement is of no different statusthan the observation that hearers are able to make sense out ofungrammatical utterances (although, admittedly, acceptabilitystatements are usually clearer for syntactic than for pragmatic data).Further, Grosz et al (1983) observe that in task-oriented dialoguesthe pronoun it may refer back to the topic of primary interest, nomatter when it has been introduced.
This case seems to be relatedto quasi-deictic uses of it, e.g.,if (14) is vttered as the first sentencein a conversation between people waiting at the bus stop:(14) It will arrive in a moment.The current universe can be "invaded" by objects of centralimportance in a situation; this is, however, amarked case applyingonly in situations clearly dominated by one object, and must bedistinguished fiom ordinary salience considerations.
In the Groszcases, there is no direct connection between pronoun and supposedantecedent.
The "chain of reference" takes its way through the non-linguistic situation.
Evidence for this assumption is provided bylanguages with syntactic gender like German: there is strictsyntactic gender agreement between anaphor and (local)antecedent; no such agreement holds in the cases described byGrosz.Third, the pronouns he and she have distinctly wider range thanit:.
This seems to be evidence for the naked descriptioninterpretation of pronouns, and counter-evidence against thelocality constraint: since he and she carry more information, theyallow to go further down on the salience ranking.
However, erand sie as the masculine and feminine pronouns in German haveno further each than es (and it in English), as long as they link toinanimate objects.
Pronouns referring to humans on the otherhand, can be used more freely, they also bear contrastive stress,and allow unmarked eictic uses.
The behaviour of these pronounssuggests that they go with full NPs, whereas inanimate pronounsconstitute a seperate class.
It does not affect he locality statementfor the latter.5.
Definite DescriptionsIn contrast to pronouns, definite descriptions are not sensitive tothe concept of current universe.
They may anaphorically link toarbitrarily remote antecedents.
Moreover, where pronouns (at leastthe inanimate cases) are constrained toanaphoric use, descriptionsapply freely to objects introduced in discourse, present in thephysical environment, or available through the commonbackground of the discourse participants.
The most salient objectmeeting the description is selected as the referent, independently ofits offspring.
The uniqueness condition, which Kamp models withselection sets, should better be viewed as a very generalconversational requirement, i.e.
that the intended object ofreference must be unambiguously more salient han each otherpossible candidate.
A salience ranking as Kamp proposes for theinterpretation of complex demonstratives, eems to be theappropriate means to interpret definite descriptions, on an abstractlevel.
There is no motivation for a distinction between a deictic andan anaphoric use (a distinction which anyway becomes problematicfor the common background containing all kinds of oldinformation), and, consequently, for a sharp distinction betweenexplicitly introduced iscourse referents, and other referenceobjects.
The universe of discourse U K is a more comprehensiveset, containing of course all rel:erence objects explicitly introduced,but not as a distinguished subset.
Thus, there will be just onegeneral rule for descriptions the o~ :(15) (i) Add a new DR x to CUR.
(ii) Replace the & in the constituent under consideration by x.
(iii) Add x :: y to K, where y is the most salient referent in lAthat satiesfies the description d~.I will not comment on some questions here that are crucial fl)rpractical discourse processing: How is the set of additionalreference objects established?
How is knowledge about theseadditional reference objects represented?
And most important:What is the mechanism underlying the constitution and themodification of the salience ranking?
Kamp suggests thatbackground information be stored in some DRS-like format (Kmnp1985).
As far as the salience of reference objects for descriptionsis concerued, it seems that more complex, script-like structures,containing large amounts of common-sense information aboutspecific types of situation, and guiding speakers" expectationsabout the continuation of the discourse, play a crucial role (cf.Grosz" 1977 work on focus spaces).
To sum up, definitedescriptions are that type of NP showiug the least degree oflinguistic pre-structuring in their anaphoric behaviour, and thestrongest dependence on world knowledge.This everything holds for plain (non-functional) definitedescriptions.
Functional definite descriptions in their elliptic usealso do not rnake a difference between linguistic and non-linguisticcontext.
As l think, however, it is not the best way to describethem as functions in the mathematical sense operating on DRswhich have been isolated through salience considerations, as in thecase above.
They rather seem to express functions in the sense ofthe role concept specified in Situation Semantics.
I will not go inlomore detail, here.6.
Complex Demonstrat ives and Pronouns as FocusIndicatorsThe analysis of definite descriptions proposed in file last section isbased on the same concept of salience ranking that Kamp employsfor complex demonstratives.
Actually, reference seems to beestablished for both kinds of noun phrases in basically the sameway: that o~, as well as the ~,  is sensitive neither to the localityconstraint nor to the distinction between linguistic and non~linguistic ontext.
I would maintain the salience ranking analysisalso for demonstratives.
(I will comment on this ol, in a moment.
)So, what makes up the difference between descriptions anddemonstratives, which undoubtably exists?Kamp notes that a demonstrative this~that e~ carries an implicaturethat there is more than one object satisfying ~,  and in connectionwith this Qbservation argues that demonstratives have contrastivetraction.
Either statement meets a characteristic feature ofdemonstratives.
Both, non-uniqueness and contrast, shouldhowever be regarded and can be explained in a wider connection,none of them being the essential property of demonstratives.371Kamp gives as evidence for his non-uniqueness assumptionexamples like thatpope, which is odd or at least highly marked.However, there are clear cases of descriptions with a singlesatisfying object which combine asily with the demonstrative that,e.g.
that small planet beyond Uranus, or that woman who sold methebook on Situation Semantics.
On the other hand, that father isas odd as that pope, although nothing is uncommon about asituation where several fathers are present.
These facts suggest thefollowing explanation: The article the has two distinct uses - plaindescriptive and functional descriptive use, as Kamp calls it -whereas that is restricted to the former.
Thus, the use of thatforces a predicative rather than a functional reading of the commonnoun.
This explains the markedness of cases with stronglypreferred functional reading, like pope and father.
(Sun anduniverse belong to the same group, which can be seen e.g.
fromthe distribution of preposition-article contraction indicating"functional" use in German.
)Actually, there are cases where a strong non-uniquenesspresupposition r implicature is carried by a demonstrative phrase,i.e., cases with contrastive stress on the demonstrative pronounand unstressed common-noun phrase as in that professor or thatprofessor with the old Mercedes.
However, the presuppositiongoes with the stress here, and is not a specific property of thedemonstrative.
In the complementary case - stress on (part of) thecommon-noun phrase (and optionally on the determiner, inaddition) - the presupposition fades away.
That professor with theold Mercedes implicates only that there is some other professorinvolved in the situation.
That professor and, finally, thatprofessor with the oldMercedes without any stress marking, seemto implicate nothing than the very general fact that there are otherobjects under consideration.
This implicature follows from what Iconsider in accordance with Sidner (1984) as the basic property ofdemonstrative phrases.
The main function of demonstratives is thatthey direct he heater's focus of attention to a new reference objectthat was not in focus before.
There is a lot of clear evidence forthis; I just give the following pair of examples for illustration.
(16) Do you remember that professor with the old Mercedes?
(17) Do you remember the professor with that old Mercedes?In (16) it is the professor, in (17) it is the old Mercedes, which isunderstood by the hearer as the primary topic for the next utterance(and by this, as the preferred candidate for pronominal naphora).Since Kamp explicitly excludes the updating mechanism for thesalience ranking from consideration, his analysis cannot model thefocus-shifting effect of demonstratives.
Also, the extension of theDRS formalism proposed so far in my talk is insufficient.
Thecurrent universe CU K contains potential topics, potential referentsfor personal pronouns, whereas the use of a demonstrative movesa referent definitely into the focus of attention.
So let me introduceCF~ - -  CU K , standing for the "current focus of DRS.
K" (inaddition CFo, K and CF Js K are needed as in the current universecase).
The pair CU/CF corresponds toGrosz" distinction betweenforward and backward thematic enter, and the opposition ofpotential and confirmed focus in Sidner's analysis.
The rule forthat ~ is given in (18).
(18) (i) Add a new DR to CFK(ii) as (3) (ii) or (15) (ii)(iii) Add x = y to K where y ~ CF K and y is the most salientsatiesfier of N in U K.The corresponding rule for this ~ is like (18), except he additionalrequirement that the antecedent must have been uttered in theimmediate pre-context.
It is tempting to apply the alreadyintroduced concept of current universe to make the closeness372condition more precise.
However, this has a yet more restrictedanaphoric range, which seems to depend on proximity in theuttered string, in a very basic sense.
(19) I asked an old man and a young woman.Reference to the second conjunct in (19) by this woman is muchbetter than reference to the first conjunct by this man.
In itsprototypical deietic use, this is a case of local deixis (cf.
Levinson1983), and this property seems to be inherited in its anaphoric (orbetter: text-deictic) use.The use of demonstratives is only one way of explicit focusindication.
In addition, prosodic means (stress, intonation) andspecific syntactic onstructions (topicalization, cleft and pseudo-cleft constructions) are available.
I will not comment on these,here; Sidner (1984) gives a rather comprehensive overview offocus indicators in English.
There is one case of focus indicators,however, I have to deal with, since it concerns aclass of NPs forwhich I gave already a preliminary analysis.
Personal pronouns arein two ways connected with the focus concept.
On the one hand,the choice of an antecedent is dependent of the current focus.Second, by pronominal reference to a DR in the current universethis DR is confirmed as the actual focus.
The modifiedconstruction rule for pronouns is given in (20).
(20) (i) Add a new discourse referent to CF K .
(ii) = (3) (ii)(iii) Add x = y to K where y~ CF~-, if CF K ~/if(and CFt4 isnot yet exhausted by other anaphoric references); YE CUKelse.Demonstratives refer to a DR not yet confirmed as focus and moveit into CF.
Pronouns refer to members of CU, preferably toexplicitly focussed DRs, and keep them in CF.
These facts allowsome predictions about the distribution of demonstratives andpronouns in adjacent sentences.
The most obvious one is that twodemonstratives in immediately succeeding sentences should not beanaphorically linked to each other (violations are possible, but havea stylistic or connotational effect).
Further, (18) together with (20)predicts that a pronoun is a bad antecedent for a demonstrative.The following sequence looks like a counter-example.
(21) (a) Last week, I bought a new dish-washer.
(b) It works really fine.
(c) I had seen this dish-washer in a commercial.At a closer look, however, it turns out that the focus shifts fromthe physical object (my dish-washer) toa generic object (a certainbrand of dish-washer) between (21 b) and (21 c).
This effect(which is systematically used by speakers) seems to be caused bythe fact that a direct anaphoric reading is excluded by (18) and(20): a confirmation rather than counter-evidence for the proposedanalysis..(There is,however, aserious problem for DRT containedin (21): Where does the generic reference for this dish-washer in(21 c) come from?
)Finally, Grosz et al (1983) discuss a rule for the cooccurence ofpronouns in adjacent sentences, tating that "If the Cb \['backward-looking center'\] of the current utterance is the same as the Cb ofthe previous utterance, a pronoun should be used."
The rulepredicts the oddity of examples like the following:(22) (a) Hel called up Mike,/yesterday.
(b) He ~ was annoyed by John ~ "s call.The "backward-looking center'eoncept roughly corresponds tothecurrent focus of my proposal.
The main difference is that Grosz etal.
assume the existence of only one centered referent at a time(exceptions due to the ambiguity of NPs between referential andintensional readings being of no importance here), whereas thecardinality of CF is unlimited in principle.
Thus, the rule citedabove turns out to be a special consequence of the more generalpronoun construction rule (20): All CF members have to beconsumed first, before pronominal reference can be made to DRsthat are not explicitely focussed.
There is one difficulty arisingfrom the procedural formulation of DRT rules, which presupposesleft-to-right processing: This would restrict access to CF to the left-most pronoun(s), which means in the above example that thesubject he of (b) must have index i irrespective of whetheranother pronoun follows.
By a declarative formulation of DRT,this undesirable effect can be avoided.7.
Concludinlg RemarksKamp (1983) t~eats the different types of definite NPs in the DRTframework by integrating conventional model-theoretic analyses ofdescriptions and demonstratives.
I have argued in this paper that amore adequate analysis is possible, whicb utilizes concepts andresults from NLP research.
It is one of the advantages of DRTover standard model-theoretic semantics that it allows astraightforward integration of these concepts.
In older to specifythe functions of different definite NP types, I have proposed twoextensions of the basic DRT formalism: First, the localityconstraint, which is formally represented by CU and allows todescribe the difference in anaphoric behaviour between pronounson the one hand and descriptions and demonstratives on the otherhand (which difference i would tend to consider as more basic andcategorical than is usually done in NPL work on anaphora).Second, focus indication explains the functional differencebetween definite descriptions and demonstrative phrases as well asconstraints on the cooccurence of co-specifying NPs.
It isrepresented by CF.Let me conclude with a remark on the relation between U, CU, andCF.
Since CFgN C ;1~Ut<,  since CF K as well as CUg are setsthe members of which differ in their readiness to serve asantecedents for anaphoric pronouns, one might think ofconsidering CFg and CUt< as different op portions of the salienceranking on U K , and perhaps doing away with CFt< altogether,describing the focus indicating function of demonstratives andpronouns by modification of the salience ranking.
There areseveral reasons why this approach cannot lead to a satisfactorysolution.
One of them is that CF members as "confirmed focuselements'have an epistemic status which qualitatively distinguishesthem from all other DRs in the universe of discourse, and whichwould be only insufficiently represented by making them topmembers of the salience ranking.
Also, it would be inadequate torefer to the same salience ranking for global and local anaphora,for U and CU: Preferences for pronominal anaphora dependessentially on syntactic (surface and functional) criteria, whichdon't play a rote for definite descriptions.
Finally, a linear salienceranking would be a much too simple formalism to representpreference data for local, pronominal anaphora.
Parallelism playsan important role on different levels: Pronominal surface subjectstend to anaphorically refer to surface subjects; pronouns refer moreeasily to antecedents that occupy tbe same thematic position, a factthat led Sidner to split the focus concept into "actor focus'and"discourse focus'.
Thus, a discourse may be pervaded by severalmore or less independent chains of anaphoric relations.
Thisaspect of anaphoric text structure cannot be straightforwardlyintegrated into the DRT framework.
A more elaborate syntacticfoundation of discourse semantics i required.ReferencesBarwise, J./ Perry, J.
(1983), Situations and Att i tudes.Cambridge, Mass.
: MIT PressChierchia, G./ Rooth, M. (1984), Configurational Notions inDiscourse Representation Theory.
In: NELS 14,GLSA, Universityof Massachusetts, Amherst, Mass., p. 49-63Cresswell, M..I.
(1973), Logics and Languages.
London: Methuenvan Eijck, J.
(1983), Discourse representation Theory andPlurality.
In: ter Meulen, A.
(ed.
), Studies in Model-theoreticSemantics.
GRASS 1 Dordrecht: ForisGrosz, B.
(1977), Tile Representation and Use of Focus in aSystem for Understanding Dialogs.
SRI-Report, Menlo Park CAGrosz, B./ Joshi, A./ Weinstein, S. (1983), Providing a Unifiedaccount of Definite Noun Phrases in Discourse.
SRI TechnicalNote, Menlo Park, CAHelm, I.
(1982), The Semantics of Definite and Indefinite NounPhrases.
Diss.
Amherst, Mass.Johnson, M./Klein, E. (1985), A Declarative Formulation of DRSTheory.
Notes from the ASL Talk, Stanford, CAKamp, H. (1981), A Theory of Truth and SemanticRepresentation.
I : Groenendijk et al (eds.
), Formal Methods inthe Study of Language.
AmsterdamKamp, H. (1983), SID without Time or questions.
Ms. Stanlord,CAKamp, H. (1985), Context, Thought, and Communication.
In:Proc.
of the Meeting of the Aristotelian SocietyLevinson,S.
(1983), Pragmatics.
Cambridge UPLewis, D. (1979), Scorn-keeping in a Language Game.
in: Bhuerleet al (eds.
), Semantics from Different Points of View.
Berlin:SpringerSells', P. (1985), Restrictive and Non-restrictive Modification.CSLI-Report, Stanford, CASidner, C. (1980), Focus for Interpretation of Pronouns.
Ms.Cambridge, Mass.Sidner, C. (1984), Focussing in the Comprehension of DefiniteAnaphora.
In: Brady, M./ Berwick, R.
(eds.
), ComputationalModels of Discourse.
Cambridge, Mass.
: MIT PressWebber, B.
(1984), So whal: can we talk about now?.
In: Brady,M.
/Berwick, R.
(eds.
), Computational Models of Discourse,Cambridge, Mass.
: MIT Press373
