TBMS: Domain Spec i f i cText Management and Lexicon Deve\]opment*S. Goeser and E. MergenthalerUniversity of Ulm FRGAbstractThe def in i t ion  of a Text Base Management System isintroduced in terms of software engineering.
Thatgives a basis for discussing pract ical  text  admini-s t rat ion ,  including questions on corpus propertiesand appropriate ret r ieva l  c r i te r ia .
F ina l ly ,  strate-gies for the derivat ion of a word data base from anactual TBMS wi l l  be discussed.l.
IntroductionTextual data are a sort of complex data object thatis of growing importance in many appl icat ions.Research projects from such d i f fe rent  f ie lds  ash istory,  law, social sciences, humanities and l in -guist ics  but also commercial ins t i tu t ions  are dea-l ing with vast quan i t i t ies  of text .
At Ulm Universi-ty for instance, a machine-readable corpus of spokenlanguage texts has been bu i l t  up, with the purposeof support For psychotherapeutic process research.The corpus is administered by a Text Base Manage-ment System (TBMS), that integrates the functionsof archiving, processing and analyzing an arb i t raryamount of text (MERGENTHALER 1985).Several sysLmns sat is fy ing the TBMS def in i t ion  wereconceived independently in the late seventies.THALLER (1983) reports a system CLIO, a TBMS with ahighly d i f fe rent ia ted  data base component and amethod base providing c~nputerized content analysisand comfortable ed i t ing.
LDVLIB (DREWEK and ERNI1982) is mainly a text  analysis package, where database management and text  processing play a subordi-nate role.
A PC-suited TBM-system, ARRAS (SMITH1984), supports comfortable text  inquiry by concor-dance and index functions, but has no textbasecomponent.
F inal ly  there are two TBM-systems forcommercial use, MIDOC (KOWARSKI and MICHAUX 1983)and MINDOK \[INFODAS 1983) which have a databasecomponent and al low extensive processing of text ,but no kind of text  analysis at a l l .2.
Def in i t ion  of  a TBMSFrom the point of view of a TBMS-user, who is sup-posed to be a non-programming app l i ca t ion - f ie ldworker, the system is an instrument to take up, tocontrol and/or to analyze his or her individualtexts for domain-dependent purposes.
Consequently, asystem intended to manage a text  bank has the fo l -lowing tasks:1.
Input and edit ing of texts according to numerouspoints of view.2.
Management of an unlimited number of text  unitson a suitably sized aux i l ia ry  storage device.3.
Management of an unl imited amount of informationconcerning the text  units,  the i r  authors, and therelated text  analyses.4.
Management of an open quantity of methods foredi t ing and analyzing stored text  units .5.
Assistance for interfaces to s ta t i s t i ca l  andother user packages.6.
Assistance for a simple, dialogue-oriented userinterface when the tasks mentioned in points I to5 are supplied or performed.The tasks mentioned in point 1 belong to the domainof text  processing.
The term text  processing sys-tem can be used i f  su f f i c ient  user assistance isprovided.235The task of managing an unlimited number of textunits on an auxiliary storage (point 2) is theobject of long-term data maintenance.
The storedsets are grouped in f i les and put into magneticstorage.
I f ,  in addition, i t  is possible to adminis-ter the data sets with the access methods providedby the operating system, then we wil l  speak of adata maintenance system or a f | \ ]e  management sys-tem (e.g., Archive with BS2000 from Siemens andDatatrieve with VMS from Digital Equipement)oThe tasks mentioned in point 3 concern the manage-ment of a data base including all of its services.These tasks are fu l f i l led by general data basemanagement systems; the classic functions of suchsystems are the description, handling, take up,manipulation, and retrieval of data.
Data structurescan be classified as hierarchic, network oriented,or relational.Point 4 refers to a collection of methods that,givencomputer assistance in the user's selection ofmethods, can be termed a method base.
Further assis-tance, such as method documentation and parameterinput, is provided by the method base managementsystem.
Point 5, on interfaces, is a subset of thetasks described by point 4.All of these tasks are collected in point 6 withregard to the user interface.
Thus the TBMS is anintegrated overall system consisting off i le  management system FMSdata base management system DBMStext management system TMSmethod base management system MBMSuserrA .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
datauseracquisitionr~5userdata baseuser inter- .facerequest data baseoutp~ut~ ex-~ ~ y s  3  man~egementof text 4text ~ ' " " "analysispackagecharacte- analysisTBStextmethodbasetextacquisitiontext J ~ base } ~ output baseFigure 1236Since the selection of the specif ic data to bemanaged by the DBMS and of the methods provided bythe MBMS is made in accordance with the kind oftexts managed by the FMS, i t  is leg i t imate to des-cribe the overal l  information system as tailo~nade.The following definition of the entire system ismade, in analogy to the definitions of the indivi-dual components, in order to ensure that our termi-nology adequately reflects this state of affairs:?extbase management system = TBMSBranch: L inguist ic  data processingThe TBMS is an information system that canadminister texts and information on texts,  andthat makes texts accessible by integrat ingtechniques from l ingu is t i c  data processing andtext  processing.
I t  features a homogeneous userinterface that assists in the take up, pro-.cessing, output, and analysis of text  units.A System Architecture I (top leve l ) ,  which representsone way of rea l i z ing  a TBMS is shown in Fig.
I .The TBMS d i f fe rs  from document ret r ieva l  systons bycontaining i~o addit ional  components: text  process-ing and method base.
I t  is true that the emphasis,as far as ret r ieva l  in the I BMS is concerned, iss t i l l  on data ret r ieva l  ( for  requests made accordingto the author of a text)  and on document ret r ieva l( for  text  references to be determined according tointernal textual features).
Fact ret r ieva l  is none-theless an integral  component of a l l  the plans for aTBMS, even i f  systems able to cope with large quan-t i t ies  of material from col loquia\]  speech are s t i l lnot ready for production.
However, this  should notbe a basis for d i f fe rent ia t ing  within a TBMS.
ideal-ly  fact  and document ret r ieva l  are to be integratedin one system in order to provide sat is factory userassistance.3.
Text Base ManagementThe pract ical  management of texts can roughly beseparated into management of texts or text  sets (ascomplex str ing objects) and of text - re la ted  informa-t ion usually not being part of the text .
This in for -mation may be pragmatical such as ident i f i ca t ion  andat t r ibutes  of the text  producer(s) or a descriptionof the communicative s i tuat ion the text  or iginatedfrom, or i t  may be semantical, specifying somemapping of the text on a formal representation.
Forboth kinds the method base w i l l  provide adequateanalysis procedures.A TBMS is ind i f fe rent  with regard to the complete-ness of a text  corpus, but i t  supports the moreambitious handling of an open corpus in a specialway.The character is t ic  of an open corpus is that i t  isan excerpt from a parent population which is contin-uously being expanded without being t ied to the goalof completeness.
An example is the co l lect ion offu l l y  transcribed short psychotherapies.
I t  ispossible to expand this corpus to include everynewly undertaken treatment without ever reaching astate of completeness or representativeness withrespect to the text  type "short psychotherapy".
Thequal i ty  of completeness can only be approximated i fthere are features l im i t ing  the composition of thecorpus.
Thus a co l lect ion oF diagnostic f i r s t  inter -views has a higher degree of completeness i f  i tconsists of equal parts on the features "sex","age", "diagnosis",  and "social s t rata" .
An exampleof a completely c losed corpus is the Bible (seePARUNAK 1982).The degree of completeness of a corpus also influen~ces the strategies for handling the results of textanalyses, such as a semantic mapping.
There are twoprincipal  approaches.
In the one, a l l  the avai lableresults of analyses are stored completely with thetext  or in d i rect  re lat ion to the text .
In theother, parts of the corpus are processed a lgor i thmi-ca l ly  as needed.
As detai led by PARUNAK (1982,p.150), users with open corpora tend to use thealgorithmic version, while the storage of exist ingresults from previous studies is often preferred for237closed corpora.Most of the text - re la ted  information, be i t  semanti-cal or pragmatical in nature, can be applied ind i f fe rent  ways.
F i r s t ,  a l l  of them is c lear ly  of animmediate interest  to the system user, who is con-cerned with a given text .
For example, a psychia-t r i s t  examining the verbatim protocol of a treatmenthour w i l l  be interested in i t s  content and in thepat ient 's  medical h is tory .
He or she might be pro-vided with a weighted semantic category l i s t ,  a highfrequency word l i s t  and, as an a t t r ibute ,  the pa-t ient ' s  ICD-diagnesis.Secondly, text - re la ted  information can serve withinTBMS as an addit ional c r i te r ion  (beside text  ident i -f i cat ion  and a suitable pre-segmentation) for re-t r iev ing texts from FMS.
In our TBMS-implementation,the fol lowing features do have that ret r ieva l  func-t ion:text type Given a certain class of destinationfeatures a text  type can be defined bya set of at t r ibute-va lue pairs.
In tu i -t i v ly  a text  type d i f fe rent ia ted  thatway corresponds to a communicatives i tuat ion.attributes For each part ic ipant  in a communica-t ion,  a set of feature-value pairsspecifying relevant propert ies isreserved.4.
Der iv ing  a Word Data BaseA word data base (WDB) is ,  formally spoken, a re la-t ion ranging over lexicographical features.
Everytupel in a WDB specif ies a class of feature valuesbeing character is t ic  for a single word form; one orseveral tupels may be organized in a subset of whathas been cal led a lex ica l  entry (see HESS, BRUSTKERNand LENDERS 1983)o Lexical features to be consideredhere are word form, lemma name, word class, frequen-cy of the word form and some grammatical features,par t ia l l y  depending on the par t icu lar  word class.Empir ical ly,  a WDB is "based" on one or more commu-nicat ive s i tuat ions,  that is ,  i t  is accumulated withrespect to an approprfately sized (see MERGENTHALER1985) text  corpus.
Note that s i tuat ions l i ke ,  forinstance, a psychoanalytic treatment do in factl im i t  col loquial  lex ica l  domains to some degree,simply by imposing thematical res t r i c t ions  on thetext  drawn from i t .text  un i tspeakertext  s izethemeA text  seen as str ing object can beorganized h ierarch ica l ly ,  containing(not necessarily continuous) substringssuch as utterances or segments, whichwe cal l  text  units.selects among speakers of a given(d ia log ic)  textto be specif ied in current word formson the basis of a semantic categoryl i s t ,  textual ident i f i ca t ion  units canbe selected according to the weight ofa category.
2The re lat ionship between such situation-based do-mains and the WDB derived from i t  w i l l  be worked outin more detai l  as fol lows.As lex ica l  TBMS-component, a WDB wi l l  usually sup-port the method base in analyzing textual proper-t ies .
We only mention, that most computerized con-tent analysis procedures w i l l  operate on raw andlemmatized text ,  y ie ld ing d i f fe rent  results .
The WDBin our TBMS-implementation (see Table I) is due toi t s  appl icat ion in psychotherapy protocol analysis.The most important procedure in deriving a WDB isautomatic lemmatization, defined as providing onepair<lemma name, word class> and opt iona l ly  in-f lect ional  features for every word-form-in-text ,238using context for  disambiguation.
Since TBMS aredealing with mass text ,  the primary objectives inl emmatization w i l l  be f i r s t ,  to have an e f f i c ientprocedure, second, to have least  user assistance andth i rd ,  to minimize the error rate with respect tothe resul t ing WDB.
These objections are t ight lyl inked to a resolut ion of word class and lemma nameambiguities (homographies) by analyzing context.This seems to be obvious with regard to ef f ic iencyand user support.
We also stress upon a s ign i f i cantdecrease in error rate,  in order to avoid interac-t ive  lemmatization that goes along with well-knownconsistency problems.All current lemmatization procedures (see e.g.KRAUSE and WILLEE 1982) combine s ta t i c  cmnponentsdesigned for lexicon lookup and dynamic componentstry ing to analyze entr ies not yet contained in thelexicon.
Stat ic lemmatization surely w i l l  worksu f f i c ient ly  well in a l l  cases where an appropriatelexicon can be provided and a constant domain as-serts congruence between this lexicon and the on-coming vocabulary.
Dynamic lemmatization, howevermay become a crucial  task in case of non-specif ic,' fuzzy' domains "like psychoanalytic ta lks .
This issimply a question of the size of vocabulary, whichis up to a ~ime not covered by the lexicon.
For anygiven lexicon, this uncovered vocabulary w i l l  bemore extensive for fuzzy domains than for specif icones.While unconstrained lexicon access and morphologicalword analysis are c lear ly  determinist ic  in nature,context related lemnatization requires a sort ofindeteminism on word leve l .
That is ,  some kinds oflexical  pattern 3 should be recognized by the lemma-t i za t ion  algorithm and become stored in the lexiconfor la ter  access.
This leads us to a matrix descrip-t ion of contextual le lmat izat ion (Table 2).The dynamic component is applied to those word fonns- plus a two sided context of several words - forwhich no corresponding pattern is avai lable in theWDB.
In order to avoid mis-leading lemmatization al inkage between dynamic and stat ic  component isbu i l t  up.
A pair  <lemma name, word class>, is gener~ated dynamically and w i l l  be accepted onlyi f  the lemma is element in the WDB.
Otherwise, aninteract ive procedure, the lemmatization dialog,w i l l  be in i t ia ted .appro-achstat icproceduredetermi- nondetermi-n i s t i c  n i s t i cWDB-entry: WDB-entry:word patterndynamic morpholog, syntact.analysis analysisTable 25.
F~nal remarkThe current implementation of the TBMS ULM TEXTBANK,being f inished in 1986, is on a SIEMENS 7.550-D mainframe under BS2000 operating system.
Further work onthe ULM TEXTBANK wi l l  include extensions of themethod base by robust parsing and rule based contentanalysis methods.I) The i l lus t ra t ing  technique used here short ly isas fol lows: Individuals are represented by t r ian-gles, dynamic elements as rectangles and stat icelements as e l l ipses .
The system detai l  is enclosedin a frame.
Control l ing operations are indicated bya broken l ine ,  reading operations as uninterruptedl ines coming from above and wr i t ing  operations asgoing to below the frame.
Comunicating elements arel inked with double l ines.
Lines extending to theframe indicate,  that a l l  the dynamic elements con-tained within i t  re late to the outside.
See Mergen-thaler (1985) for  a more detai led descr ipt ion.2) The feature theme is actual ly  not a part of theretr ieva l  system but of the method base, since i t s239LEMMA NAMEI lemma name2 var iant meanings ident i f i ca t ion3 reference to in f lected forms4 semantic descript ion (planned)5 frequency of occurrence6 grammatical features {as fol lowing)WORD KINDI noun 7 negation2 verb B ar t i c le3 adject ive 9 preposit ion4 adverb I0 conjunction5 pronoun 11 in ter jec t ion6 numeral 12 otherMORPHOLOGY OF LEMMAI234567B910111213141.G1617IRsimplex (s)compound (c)affixal derivation {a)s adjective derivations verb derivations nominal numbers abbreviations proper namec adjective derivationc verb derivationc nominal numberc, abbreviationc, proper namec, adjective derivationc, verb derivationa, nominal numbera, abbreviationa, proper nameWORD ORIGIN GENDER PARTICIPLEI foreign I masculin I have2 d ia lect  2 feminine 2 he3 neutralINFLECTED FORMSI inflected form2 variant meanings identification3 reference to lemma names4 semantic description (planned)5 frequency of occurrence6 grammatical features (as following)RELATIVE FORMS NUMBERSi diminutive i singular2 comparative 2 plural3 superlat ive 3 plural onlyMORPHOLOGY CASE/MODEI pres .par t ic ip .
I nominat .
/ indicat .2 past par t i c ip .
2 genit ive/conjunct.3 pres.tense 3 dat ive/ imperat.4 past tense 4 accusative5 in f in i t i veTable 12403) Concerning the problem of differentiating homo-graphs contextually, the straightforward approach ofrewrite rules operating on word-class categorieswon't work except the inventory of those categoriesis extremely differentiated.
For example the rule AD+ X + NOUN ---> AD + AD + NOUN is correct  only i fNOUN is the head of an NP and X is not a presentpar t i c ip le  or (in English) a noun within that NP.
Wesuppose that a su f f i c ient  d i f fe rent ia t ion  may beachieved only with some kind of semantic pattern.ReferencesDrewek, R. and Erni, M.: LDVLIB.
A (new) SoftwarePackage for Text Research.
Vortrag ALLC - Conferen-ce, Pisa 1982.Hem, K., Brustkern, J. and Wil lee, G.: Maschinen-lesbare deutsche W~rterb~cher.
Niemeyer, T(~bingen1983.INFODAS: MINDOK.
Ein Informationssystem auf Klein-rechnern zur Erfassung, Verwaltung und Retrieval yonDokumenten und Daten.
(Ausgabe 2.0) INFODAS GmbH,K~In 1983.Kowarski, I .
and Michaux, C.: MIDOC: A MicrocomputerSystem for the Management of Structured Documents.Information Processing ~3:567 - 572 (1983).Krause, W. and Wil lee, G.: Lemmatizing German News-paper Texts with theA id  of an Algorithm.
In: Com-puters and the Humanities 15:101-113 (1983).Mergenthaler, E.: Textbank Systems.
Computer ScienceApplied in the Field of Psychoanalysis.
Springer:Heidelberg New York (1985).Parunak, Dyke van, M.: Data Base Design for B ib l ica lTexts.
In: Bailey, R.W.
(Ed.
): Computing in theHumanities: 149-161, North Holland, Amsterdam 1982.Smith, J .
:  ARRAS User Manual.
State University ofNorth Carolina, Chapel Hi l l  NC, 1984.Thal ler ,  M.: CLIO: EinfUhrung und SystemUberblick.Manual, G~ttingen 1983.
*This work has been supported by the German ResearchFoundation within the Col laborative Research Program129, Projekt B2.Authors address:S. Goeser, l i c .ph i l  and Dr. E. Mergenthaler, D ip l .
-Inform.Sektion Psychoanalytische MethodikUniversit~t UlmAm Hochstr~8 8D7900 ULM
