TRADITIONAL MEANS IN MACHINE TRANSLATIONZden~k KIRSCHHERMatematicko-fyzik~ln~ fakulta UK118 00 Praha 1, Malostransk@ n~m~st~ 25CzechoslovakiaAbstract:The chronic problems of machine trans-lation cannot be solved in a fully automa-tic way.
Human intervention is inevitable.The development of "traditional" means inconnexion with advances of computer techno-logy represent most substantial contributionto further progress in the field of machinetranslation.
Some of the problems are illus-trated using the example of the APAC32 pro-Ject.I.
The hopes for a successful solution ofthe chronic problems of machine transla-tion (MT) have long been set on twofruitful and mutually dependent pros-pects: research in artificial intelli-gence (AI) and advances in the computingtechnology.
The importance of the lattercontribution is beyond dispute.
As re-gards the former domain, some reserva-tions must be voiced.1.1~ It can be stated with some tolerancethat the missing information requiredfor automatic understanding (or desam-biguation) of natural language (NL) issupposed to be supplied by a computermodel of the knowledge correspomding tothe universe of discourse.
The contextof the analysed message constitutes animportant part of this universe.
There-fore, an essential component of such amodel must draw on the texts processed.Thus, irrespective of the contingentform, organisation, etc., of the whole,the model would at least partially de-pend on the results of the analysis forwhich it is supposed to provide neces-sary information.
This means that cir-cularity is imminent.
Even if the al-most inevitable occurrence of elementsnot covered by any device in the sys-tem is disregarded, it is obvious thatthe model can be neither complete norconsistent.Since there will always remain threatsof failure caused not by accidentalfactors but by the intrinsic inadequa-1.2.2.2.1.cy of any system of MT, human inter-vention is inevitable, and the idealof "fully automatic high quality trans~lation" (FAHQT) (which, we suspect, isno longer believed to be able to evercome true, anyway) is impossible?
Whilenot denying potential merits of thecontribution of AI, the above discus-sion should suggest that the develop~ment of means called "traditional" isequally important for MT.
An example ofan approach based on such means is ourexperimental system APAC32.If we refer to our system here, it is notto boast that we have achieved any extra-ordinary success or that we have long du-l y  appraised the above conclusions andreacted on them in an original way, etc.It is only to illustrate our convictionthat there is still a fairly wide andlong path open ahead of us within theconfines of the traditional means.
Tosay the truth, it has been our materialsituation that forced us to rely exclu-sively on them and to dispense with any-thing more sophisticated.
This had to besaid to clear us of a suspicion that weare making a virtue of necessity.APAC32 is a descendant of the MontrealTAUM series.
It has been implementedon computers of the type of IBM 370 totranslate into Czech English abstractsin microelectronics and, later, pumpingmachinery.
Using Colmerauer~s Q-systemsthe main part of the program buildslinearized rooted-tree-llke structures,which stepwise identify and interpretelements or groups of elements of theinput units stating their characterand function, dependency relations andposition in the sentential context.Strings with multiple interpretationswhich had not been eliminated are rs~presented by parallel structures givingmultiple parses in the final stage ofthe analysis, but not necessarily mul~tiple translations at the final output.Bas~o or fully accomplished structures~which resemble predicate calculus pat-?te~Ds, have a finite verb at their rootand individual participants in depen~dent pesitions~ The sense (directionto the left or right) of an orientededge (an arrow) representing a depen-dency relation ~ an information per-raining to the mutual projective posi-tion of the incident nodes - as well asthe function of a dependent participantare ~Lndicated in a way that simulatesthe marking of edges in a graph.
Thesynthesis starts by disintegrating thestru~tures that result from the analy~sis~ At the output of this stage, re~latlvely simple trees representing in-divldual words appear, with all the in-fer~atlon necessary for generatingform~ of the target language.
This pro-eeed~f in steps in which occasionallyadditional target-language-specific in-formation has to be derived to renderthe synthesized structures completeand acceptable.
Such adjustments areusually connected with the operationsof transfer: while the action of itsgeneral rules mostly coincides withthe opening phases of the synthesis~the ~nformation concerning the parti~cular changes is contained in the dic~tionariss to be exploited in the con-cluding parts of the program.The absence of any accomplished modelof the universe of discourse and thetemporary abandonment (for technicalreasons) of any device alowing the in-volvement of hypersentential contextin the analysis have, of course, en-dowed the system with a typical proba-bilistic character.
In this connexion,especially the tactics occasionally re-ferred to as "preferential" must bementioned: some rules are applied re-peatedly in subsequent stages, eachtime with conditions less rigid.
Thecombinatorial power of the Q-systemshad to be reduced by introducing seve-ral stages - partial grammars - operat~ing before the syntactic analysis pro-pete Thus, e.g., a (partial) analysisof nor, linal complexes precedes that ofverbal structures.
Therefore, a specialdevice registers schematically the con-text (,f each element in the sentence.2~3~ In s imulat i z~ne functions sf a modelof the universe Of d~scou~se, the sys~tom of dictionaries represents the mo~important tool.2o3~o The basic dictionary information inAPAC32 is a complex which consist~ oftwo main parts= information conce1~ing the source language and that pe~=~raining to the target language?
Thesestructures can be separated~ ~heyhave been put together whenever pos~sible with respect to the efficiencyof the system?
The internal structureof both these parts is almost thesame and can be briefly described asfollows: ca~egorial information~ le~,xical value~,pa~adigmatic information~pointers to parallelmeanings, valen~oy frame, combinatory frame (preposi~tional, phrasal9 special~liaison,etc., patterns), terminological spe~cifications, special syntactic inforo~mation, semantic features~ Extensivethough this apparatus may be, itshould be stated that theze are stillpossibilities ~ and a need~ of courseto add further data?
For lack ofspace, let us confine ourselves tothree poi~ts only?2~3.1~I.
The apparatus of semantic featu~'e~consists of four &lasses of feao-tures: a) features concerning thetext vs. metatext structure~b) general semantic features~c) domain specific features, andd) features concerni~ terminologi~-cal status?
The number of featuresis limited for reasons of which themost important is that excessivedetailedness leads to unwanted ~i~gidity.
However, a number of poten .tially very useful candidate featu~res can be added.
Assigning weightsto features might be a solution tothis dilemma, especially in theframework of the "preferential"tactics.2o3oi .2.
Some classes of words have beenfurther classified to highlighttheir intrinsic properties in thGtranslation environment?
E~g., aspecial classification of verbsmakes it possible to solve, atleast in part, the problems of as.~pest in Czech in relation to Eng~3292.3.1.3.2.3.2.2.3.3 ?2.3.4.330 !fish verbal adjectives (-ED, -INGforms).
Much more can be done inthis direction.
Unfortunately, thiswill imply extensive empirical workincluding excerption and, if possi-ble, organization of a usage-panel-like inquiry.As concerns combinatory frames,also more information will be addedon the possibilities of adverbialmodification of nouns.
Some changesand additions to the present orga-nisation and contents of the dic-tionaryentries ar e considered witha view to structures suggested inthe Mel%huk-Apresyan's model"meaning - text".A specific dictionary device hasbeen introduced in the terminologi-cal section of the dictionary system.Special rules control, or rather,guide the analysis of terminologicalcomplexes, making it possible to de-cide frequent ambiguous structures(e.g., INTEGRATED CIRCUIT SYSTEM as((INTEGRATED CIRCUIT) SYSTEM) ratherthan (INTEGRATED (CIRCUIT SYSTEM))).In this way partial quasi-model ofthe specific domain can be formedwhose elements are capable o~ recur-sive application to new combinations.Another dictionary device deals wlthunrecognized elements - the so-calledtransducing dictionary (TD).
TD re-lies on derivational morphology, as-signing categorial information, and,in some cases, semantic status andother information to words hitherto"unknown" to the system, on the basisof their endings (e.g., -ING, -ED,-ESS, -ITY, -ION, -LY, -WISE, -PY,etc.
); for some of them even success-ful adaptation to the target languageis possible.
The remaining unrecognl-zed.elements are regarded as nouns:first as proper, then, if this failsto  be confirmed, common.
A more ver-satile practice is planned, whichwill take into consideration otherpossible interpretations as well.TD, as well as some other devlces andrules can be also regarded as specialfail-soft measures, though anothercomponent called "emergency rules" is2.4.2.5.included which performs this f~Lucti0~as a specialized set of rules design~ed to reconstruct, complete or integ~rate into a (would~be_.
)_.me_animgf.u!whole those structures that failed %0reach the stage of an accomplishedparse.
In some respects, the role o?such measures is problematic in zela~tion to h~an intervention.
Our sys~tem offers possibilities to introducea special diagnostic device to recog~nize and classify the s~mptoms of afailure, so that more than the pre-sent simple marking of "suspicious"or "underdone" outputs can be presen=ted to aid the postedition.Ambiguities are treated in the usualway.
It should be pointed out that inthe translation between the languagesin question, the principles of agree-ment so widely applied in Czech unmer~cifully reduce the chances to get oversome types of unsolved ambiguities inan "unperceptible"~ i.e., accidental,way.
These principles, as a rule, ob-stinately insist upon rendering impli~cit information explicit.
That is whyin some cases structures with ambiguousreference are translated by equivalentsequally ambiguous or vague.
E.g., withsome classes of verbs, (clausal) parti~cipial modification with ambiguous de~pendence is replaced by prepositionalor other constructions without any di~rect dependence: e.g., USING -, WITHUSING, CAUSING -~ WHICH (referring tothe whole of the preceding or pertinentclause) CAUSES, etc.This concerns also contrastive ambigui~ties and other asymmetrical relationsbetween the two languages.
In this con .nexion, it should be pointed out thatone of the criteria for the classifica~tion of English verbs is the classific~tion of their Czech counterparts.
Th,~s~e.g., the verb SUPPOSE must be assignedinformation that the construction SOME~ONE IS SUPPOSED TO... must be transfor-med to IT IS SUPPOSED (ABOUT SOMEONE)THAT SOMEONE... to make it correspondto the structure acceptable in Czech.Similarly, constructions like SEAT SATON BY,.. must be transformed with theaid of correspondi~ relative clauses~Much remains to be done for the domainof conversion.
Its productive aspectspo~e serious problems.3o To come back to the opening paragraphs:the ~dvances of computer technology,while not offering ultimate solution ofproblems detrimental to the efforts toachieve the ideals of PAHQT, will un-doubtably liberate the MT from the curseentailed by its usually more or less im-mediate subservience to various practicalapplications - the strict limitations ofcomputer time and storage - which so oft-en represented the only obstacles in in-trodu,~ing many a useful and, sometimes,even very necessary device, process orapproach.
Most of the prospective exten-sions, innovations and other changes re-quire profound empirical examination andmore linguistic fleld-work than, up tonow, we were able to expendsKirschner, Z.
(1982) A Dependency-BasedAnalysis of English for the Purpose ofMachine Translation.
Praha, Matematicko~fyzik~ln~ fakulta UK.-- (1987) APAC3-2: An En~lish-tc~Czech Machine Translation System.
Praha,Matematicko-fyzik~In~ fmkulta UK.331
