The Success of FailureThe concept of failure in dialogue logicsand its relevance for NL-semanticsJ.
Ph.
ttOEPELMAN, A.J.M.
van ItOOFlnstitut far Arbeitswirtschaft und OrganisationHolzgartenstr.17D-7000 Stuttgart 1E-Mail: vanhoof@iaoobel.
UUCPAbstractIn this paper we present a new interpretation of failure, aconcept o which a lot of attention is being paid in the field ofartificial intelligence research, especially due to the rise of theprogramming language PROLOG that treats negation asprocedural failure.
Our interpretation f failure, however, doesnot originate from research in the foundations of PROLOG.
Wepresent it here as an outcome of research on so-called ialoguelogics, a tradition in logic research that envisages a logical proofas a formaliz~ed discussion between conflicting parties.
Systemsof formalized iscussion that show the same logical behaviour asstandard logical systems can be build.
We show how such asystem with additional fall operator can be used for the treatmentof phenomena that are also relevant for natural languagediscourse.
In the paper the following will be analyzed: negativequestions, the paradox of the small number, and conditionals.1.
Introdue,tion *Up until now research in knowledge representationconcentrates mainly on the model~theoretic approach, thus, in ouropinion, neglecting somewhat he dynamic and proceduralaspects of human cognition.
This traditional treatment ofknowledge representation stems mainly from the view of logic asa monological enterprise, involving the Logician-Mathematicianproving more and more facts ("truths") from some set of"evidential" postulates.
It is our contention that what we callknowledge about a topic is a series of "snapshots" from theprocess of human interaction, showing sets of propositions andproof procedures that are agreed upon at that particular momentsby the people working on that topic, So knowledge is in a sense aproduct of discussion, be it internal (individual deliberation) orex\[ernal (the community of experts).
1 Given this view onknowledge, another approach to logic as knowledgerepresentation should be looked for.Now, more of less the same arguments can be launched againstthe research on the semantics of natural language where logicfeatures as representation la guage.
Moreover, we are convincedthat the monological view on logic has led to the strong250preoccupation with "assertions", being the linguistic ounterpartsof "facts".
Even where researchers start to show interest in"discourse" they concentrate most of tile time on texts which theycan treat as a monological accumulation of assertions.
We feelthat only a theory that also deals with the dynamic and proceduralaspects of human linguistic interaction is able to provide a propersemantics for natural language.Apart from the monological mainstream there is anothertradition in logic, taking its starting point in the work of themathematical logician Paul Lorenzen.
Inspired by Belh's work onsemantic tableaux, Lorenzen developed what one could call adialogical approach to the investigation of logics.
2 In his theory,which in the following will be referred to as dialogue tableauxtheory (DTT), a logical proof is pictured as a discussion betweentwo parties.
The formula to be proved, called initial thesis (T), isdefended by one party, which therewith takes up the role of theso called proponent (P), against he criticism of the other party,accordingly taking up the role of opponent (O).
A discussionabout T represents a logical proof of T, provided that P is able todefend T against all possible criticism, i.e.
that P has a winningstrategy for T. Representations of logical discussions arestructurally analogous to semantic tableaux.
We shall call themdialogue tableaux.
At about the same time the philosophicallogician Jaako Hintikka developed his so-called game theoreticalsemantics which shows close connections with the work ofLorenzen.. Game theoretical semantics i primarily occupied withthe semantics of natm'al language.
3 Important consequence of thework of both: the view of logic as a theory of formalizedinteraction functions as a new heuristic paradigm: e.g.
it makesquite a difference when thinking about the semantics ofconditionals, whether one tries to construct models for them, orwhether one imagines how people would go about discussing aconditional proposition.2.
Dialogue tableaux for formal logicThis section is meant as a very rough introduction to dialoguesystems for formal ogic.
People who want to delve more deeplyinto the subject are refen'ed to/Barth & Krabbe 1982/.Two kinds of rules determine formalized iscussions.
The socalled strip-rules determine how statements ate attacked anddefended.
By means of these rules the meaning of the logicalconnectives i  determined by their use ("meaning in use")~figure iS~ntence  At tack  Defense(N) (N*) (N)a-->b (?)
a \[bl(implication)- ,a  (?
)a \[1 (negation)a A b ?l.
(eft) \[a\](conjunction) ?R(ight) \[b\]a v b ?
\[a, b\](disjunction)(At.I.)
(parameter)q xR(x) ,?
\[R(ml\](EXIST) (m parameter)The strip-rules tate the following: a sentence uttered by thespeaker, N, where N is O or P (column 1), can be criticised bythe other party (N*) as defined in cohu-nn 2.
The speaker then has;he fight to defend his sentence wiflr another statement, as definedin column 13 This ,ight is called protective defense right.The second kind of rules, called the frame-rules regulate tilediscussion as a whole.
They define rights and duties of bothadversarie,; during a discussion, and declare when tile discussionis considered over, and still more important: hey tell which partyhas won.Changes and/or Extension of these frame-rules and strip-rulesgive rise to various systems?
with different logical strength.
It isthis feature that makes Dialogue Tableaux Theory of interest forthe study of natural hmguage semantics.3.
Fai lure in dialogue tableauxNowadays, because of the success of prolog, people aregreatly interested in the logical properties of negation interpretedas procedural failure.
Intmpreted in this way, negation does notconform to i:he well known properties of classical, intuitionistic,or minimal negation.
Because of its procedurality, failure hasbeen treated as a notion of (non-~) provability.
In this way it canbe thought of as a modality in provability logics.
4In this paper we want to present yet another interpretation offailure in te:,'ms of discussions, which to our opinion is a fairlynatural one.
We want to make it clear from the outset, that thisnew interpre tation of failure is not an interpretation for negation,as is the case in prolog.
We will apply dialogical failure togetherwith standal'd (classical, intuitionistic) negation.
This makessense because of the fact that we do not have the Closed,World-Assumption in DTI'.Dialogical faihn'e is handled by introducing a fail operator t,'into discussions.
The operator, applied to a sentence A, could beinterpreted as "There is no way to win a discussion on A relativeto the present concessions", or "Nothing in the present discussionleads to the conclusion that A".
Rules for this operator introducethe concept of role-changing: actual parties B(lack) and W(hite)who play the roles of O and P will, under clearly definedconditions, change roles during a discussion.
Winning and losingthe discussion will be defined relative to B and W. Figure 2a and2b give an informal presentation f the way F functions.figuro 2ao PB W?W?
(B wins)(or the other way around)FAB<...(W loses)An attack ol\] a fail statement "FA" at the P-side of tile tableau(figure 2a) will introduce a subdiscussion oil the winnability of"A" relative to the concessions made at the Ooside, with the.parties (B and W) changing roles (tile boxed-in part of filetableau).
Concessions from the main discussion are taken ovcrcompletely.
The result of this subdiscussion (who wins, wholoses) is mmsferred back to the main discussion.An attack on a fail statement a the O-side of the tableau (figurc2b) also leads to a subdiscussion, but there is no role change.There is also an extra constraint on the concessions to be takenover from the main discussion: only those concessions utteredprior to the utterance of the fail statement are allowexl to be tanledover.The fail operator enables us to deal with a broad range of nmchdebated phenomena.
In what follows, we will treat the followingtopics, it being understood that their treatment cannot be dealtwith here extensively:1. the lreatment of negative questions and their answers,2.
the paradox of tim small number,3.
conditionals25\].figure 2bC n0B W{ ii}FA(?
)AB W(B loses) ; ~ ,,(B loses)(or the otherway arond)..... (w wins)(w wins)4.
The treatment of negative questionsIt turns out that this fail operator can be nicely used to explainthe behaviour of so-called negative questions, a problem whichhas puzzled linguistics for some time.
5 A simple example willshow that negation in negative questions cannot be treated asnegation proper: given the fact that John is ill, the question"Is John not ill?"
/ "isn't John ill?
"can only be answered correctly by saying"Yes (he is ill).
"whereas treating not in the above questions as standard negationwould give a negative answer, which is incorrect.Provided negation in such questions i  translated as dialogicalfailure, we have a unified treatment ofboth positive and negativequestions.
A (positive or negative) question "q?"
can beconsidered to be an invitation to carry through a discussion with"q" as thesis, and the questioner as first proponent (figure 3).figure 3W ~ \ [  Sentence?
lWho wins the following discussion on Sentence?O P13 WSentence?252The answer given indicates who who wins the dialogue: apositive answer means that the last party to play the role ofproponent wins, a negative answer that the last party to play therole of opponent wins.
In addition achange in roles can (must) beindicated in some languages.
6 An example in case is German(figure 4).figure 4vv \]"The last proponents wins""last proponent = first proponent"w I B"The last proponents wins""bast proponent ?
first proponent""The last proponent loses"5.
Tile paradox of the small numberUsing F there is an elegant solution to the paradox of the smallnumber, which runs as follows.1 is a small number,but there exists a number that is not smallif n is a small number so is n+lthere exists a number that is both small and not small,which is absurd.Clearly the paradox is generated in the last premise whichallows for the generation of small numbers which get bigger andbigger, thereby reaching the number which is supposed not to besmall and collapsing into inconsistency.
F allows us to do a pre-check on the consistency.
If we build this pre-check in the lastpremise we can prevent the paradoxical inference: 7Small(l)3X~ Small(X)VX(Small(X) ^  F(Small(X+I) --~ Small(X+l))but not provable: 3X(Small(X)^~Small(x))This seems to be the normal way people intend the last premiseto be understood.
This becomes evenmore clear, if one realizesthat (as in the case of the closely related paradox of the heap) thepresentation of the paradox fits more closely in the garb ofdialogue logics then in the garb of axiomatic systems.
The sophist(Proponent of the absurd thesis) lures the innocent debater(Opponent) into conceding sentences:.
"Do you admit hat 1 is a small number?"?
"Yes, I grant you that."?
"Do you admit, then, that if some number isconsidered to be small, the direct successor ofthat number also is small.
"- "Yes, I suppose that that is correct.
".o ,Thus a set of seeming concessions i  established, from which thesophist sets out to show absurdity.
The opponent is not given theopportunity to amend his second concession by making aprovision like "unless, of  course, this successor is not alreadyagreed to be not small" - which everybody tacitly understands.It is even possible to give a range of vagueness in the definitionof small number by widening the pre-check, e.g.VX(Small(X) ^  F(~Smail(X+I) v...v -~Small(X+k))Small (X+I)).One can also extend the example by adding a definition of largenumber in an analogous way.
Starting from definitely small onthe one end, and definitely large on the other end, there areseveral distinct results as to which numbers can be called small orlarge or "neither small nor large", this depends on the exactapplications of the reeursive part of the definitions, i.e.
it dependson how a proponent would go about attacking these concessions.6.
Condi t ionalsLooking at it in a somewhat different way the solution to theparadox of the small number rests on a modification of theconditional in the premises.
Or to state it in dialogieal terms: itrests on a/nodification of the conditional in the concessions madeby the opponent.
We propose to introduce aconnective ">>" thatwill function as a new conditional with the above mentioned pre-check behaviour.Ifi some very important respect this conditional ">>" will differfrom the standard connectives of logic: its "meaning in use"cannot be stated in the same way as we already did for the otherconnectives in figure 1.
The strip-rules for the s tandardconnectives are neutral as to the discussional role of the speaker.The strip..lule for ">>" that we will present in a moment is role-specific, however.
That means there is a version for the case ofan opponent statetement and one for the case of a proponentstatement.
We will try to argue for this asymmetry.figure 5ntence(0 )p >> qAttack(P)(?
)PDefense(O)\[q,Role ChangeIhesis: -~q \]Let us look first at the strip-rule for opponent statemenL,(figure 5).
The opponent has two possibilities for protectivedefense.
One of them is stating the consequent of the conditional.So far there is no difference with the material implication (--~).But whereas this move is the only protective defense withmaterial implication, with the new conditional, however, theopponent has an extra protective defense right: he can try to showthat the negation of the consequent already follows from theconcessions.
This is exactly the analogon of the pre-checkcondition as asked for in the paradox of the small number.
It ispossible to give a simple translation for p >> q in terms of Fand -~ where the formula on the opponent side is F~q --~ (pq ) .We now turn to the rule for conditional statements made by theproponent.
Our job is to show why the same treatment as foropponent statements would not do.
Let us suppose that theconditional can be translated as above, for a start.
In whichsituations, then, can a proponent win a discussion on such astatement relative to a proponent that has conceded the set E ofconcessions?
Basically there a three possibilities: i) -~p iscontained in or derivable from E, ii) q is contained in or derivablefrom E together with the new concession p, and iii) ~q iscontained in or derivable from E. Cases i) and ii) present nosurprise.
Taken together they make up the possibilities theproponent would have if he had stated plainly p -~ q, insteadof the complexer formula.
But the more complex one provideshim with the extra possibility iii), which is utterly undesirable finany conditional: the possibility to prove the conditonal becausethe consequent does not  hold, regardless whether the antecedentholds or not.The intennediate conclusion to be drawn from this is that onthe proponent side >>-statements can and must be weakened to atleast material implication.
But we do even want to go one stepfurther.
We want to rule out the possibility that the proponent canprove a conditional statement relative to a set of concessions Ewithout he need to use the antecedent of the conditional.
Such asituation obtains if tile consequent is contained in or derivablefrom E. The way to bar such a "proof" is to provide the opponentwith an extra attack move: he can try to show that the consequentis derivable already.
The strip-rule for ">>" on the proponent sideis then as shown in figure 6.
For people who like translation lore:using material implication, conjunction and failure operator p >>q is translatable as Fq ^ (p ~ q),figure 6Sentence(P)p>>qAttack(O)(?)
PRole Changethesis: qDefense(P)\[q\]\[\]253The conditional ">>" bears close resemblance, we think, withnatural language indicative conditional if it is treated in formaldialogues in the manner indicated.
On the one hand it has defaultcharacteristics, giving rise to a non-monotonic logic.
The paradoxof the small number is a case in point, but it can even better beexemplified by the case of the famous Tweety.
Only knowing thatTweety is a bird and conceding that birds can fly, an opponenthas to agree under these circumstances that Tweety can fly.
Butupon hearing that Tweety has no wings and it being understoodthat wings are an absolute necessity for flight, this same opponentcan safely withdraw his consent to Tweety's flying capabilitieswithout becoming inconsistent.
He can safely claim that the newinformation made it necessary for him to reconsider his prioragreement.If one were to investigate he dialogue tableau for the Tweetycase with additional information, one would see that thesubdiscussion ensuing from the opponent's extra defense rightfor ">>" exactly contains the suecessfull arguments againstTweety flying.
This agrees with the actual way people use toargue:A: "Birds can fly.
"B: "But tweety is a bird and cannot fly!
"A: "Yes, but Tweety has no wings and wingless birds cannotfly.
"Antecedent strengthening, transitivity and contraposition arenot universally valid anymore with this conditional, but they areassumed per default.
In this way we can cover famous exampleslike:*(1)If I put sugar in my coffee it is drinkable(tacit premise: putting oil in coffee makes itundrinkable)If I put sugar and oil in my coffee it is &-inkable*(2)If I have an affection of the lungs I will stop smokingIf I stop smoking I will feel healthier(tacit premise: affection of the lungs does notmake feel healthier)If I have an affection of the lungs I will feel healthier*(3)If I strike this match it will burn(tacit premise: if the match is wet or has beenused already, or ... then it willl not burn)If it will not burn then I did not strike itGiven the tacit premises our conditional will handle all these casescorrectly.It is realized that this conditional s it stands cannot do the jobof so-called counteffactual conditionals.
8 But we are convincedthat these counterfactual conditionals can be build from ">>"together with formal dialogue rules that take care of blatantinconsistencies that arise fi'om the fact that the antecedent of thecounterfactual may contradict explicit information i  the premises.254Notes*.
Parts of this paper will appear in the Journal of Semantics.1.
See Barth 1985 and Barth & Krabbe 1982.2.
For a collection of his writing on dialogue logics see Lorenzen& Lorenz 1978.3.
See e.g.
Hintikka & Kulas.
1983.4.
E.g.
in Gabbay 1986.5.
For a collection of articles on this topic see e,g.
Kiefer 1983.6.
This is discussed extensively in Hoepelman 1983.
In thatarticle a four-valued logic is introduced m deal with negativequestion phenomena.
It turns out that the analysis with failoperator in the present paper achieves the same results as thefour-valued approach.
The present version, however, has asadditional merit it's greater elegance and naturalness.7.
Probably it was this kind of pre-check behaviour thatMcDermott & Doyle wanted to achieve with their operator M(McDermott & Doyle 1980).
They have run in some problemswith that operator, however, due to a certain circularity of theiroperator definition.
If we translate Mp as F~p, however, weachieve this pre-checking without getting their problems.8.
For a collection of articles on conditionals, indicative andcounteffactual, see Harper et al 1981.ReferencesBarth, E.M.,"A New Field: Empirical Logic, Bioprograms,Logemes and Logics as Institutions", inSynthese 63, 1985Barth,E.M.
and Krabbe, E.C.W., From Axiom to Dialogue.
APhilosophical Study of Logics and Argumentation, Berlin,1982Gabbay, D.M.,"Modal Provability Foundations for Negation byFailure", internal report T1.8 ESPR1T project 393,ACORD, 1987Harper, W.L.
et at.
(Eds), Ifs, Dordrecht, 1981Hintikka, J. and Kulas, J., The Game of Language, Dordrecht,1983Hoepelman, J., "On Questions", in Kiefer, F. (Ed), Questionsand Answers, Dordrecht, 1983Hoepelman, J.
Ph., and van Hoof, A.J.M., "The Success ofFailure.
A dialogue logical interpretation f failure withsome applications.
(Paper held at the Fourth ClevesConference)", in Journal of Semantics (forthcoming)Kiefer, F.(Ed), Questions and Answers, Dordrecht, 1983Lorenzen,P.and Lorenz,K, Dialogische Logik, Darmstadt, 1978McDermott, D. and Doyle, J., "Non-Monotonic Logic I", inArtificiallntelligence 13, 1980
