Exploiting Lexical Regularities inDesigning Natural Language SystemsBoris KatzArtificial Intelligence LaboratoryMassachusetts Institute of TechnologyCambridge, MA 02139Beth LevinDepartment of LinguisticsNorthwestern UnlversigyEvanston, IL 60208They've a temper, some of them--particularlyverbs: they're the proudest--adjectives youcan do anything with, but not verbs--however, I can manage the whole lot of them\[- -  Lewis Carroll, Through the Looking-GlassAbst ractThis paper presents the lexical component of the STAttT Ques-tion Answering system developed at the MIT Artificial Intelli-gence Laboratory.
START is able to interpret correctly a widerange of semantic relationships associated with alternate xpres-sions of the arguments of verbs.
The design of the system takesadvantage of the results of recent linguistic research into thestructure of the lexicon, allowing START to attain a broaderrange of coverage than many existing systems while maintain-ing modular organization.1.
In t roduct ionIf asked "Did Sally eat?"
after having been told that Sally atea pear, speakers of English would not hesitate to answer "Yes".But we would not expect English speakers to answer "Yes" ifasked "Did David dress?"
after being told that David dressedthe baby.
Here the appropriate answer would be "I don't know".Computational linguists engaged in building Question-Ans-wering systems hould find these examples thought-provoking.Two sequences consisting of a statement followed by a questionwhich appear to be parallel syntactically (transitive use of averb in the statement, intransitive use of the same verb in thequestion) elicit quite different responses.
The simple syntax ofthese pairs is unlikely to pose a challenge for the parsers used inmost existing systems.
The problem is that the intransitive usesof the two verbs, eat and dress, receive very different interpre-tations.
Thus the intransitive use of eat found in the question"Did Sally eat?"
implies the existence of an understood but un-expressed 'object that is interpreted as a prototyplcal type offood or a meal:(1) Sally ate a pear.
~ Sally ate.
(i.e., Sally ate some food.
)The question "Did David dress?"
on the other hand does notmean ~Did David dress something one typically dresses?
', itmeans 'Did David dress himself?
':(2) David dressed the baby, =7~ David dressed (i.e., Daviddressed himself.
)Natural  language systems hould be able to recognize that therelationship between transitive and intransitive dress is not thesame as that between transitive and intransitive at.A large number of English verbs have both transitive andintransitive uses.
Interchanges parallel to the one described foreat are possible with a wide range of verbs:(3) Jessiea typed a letter.
Did Jessica type?
Yes.
(4) Gabriella swept the floor.
Did she sweep?
Yes.
(5) Miriam read the book.
Did Miriam read?
Yes.But the behavior of the verb dress is not exceptional.
Anotherset of verbs including bathe, change, shave, shower, and washbehave like it.
For example, these verbs show the same entail-ments as dress:(6) Carla bathed the dog.
:=~ Carla bathed (i.e., Carla bathedherself.
)(7) Jill washed the sweater.
=fi~ Jill washed (i.e., Jill washedherself.
)(8) Peter shaved Tom.
~ Peter shaved (!.e., Peter shavedhimself.
)The different relationships between transitive and intransi~give uses of verbs cannot be ignored in the design of a naturallanguage system and its lexical component, The most obviousway to handle these relationships i to add information to thelexical entries of each verb with transitive and intransitive uses.While such an approach is viable when a system has a smM1 lex~icon~ it becomes less tractable as the lexicon grows larger sinceit requires a tremendous increase in the amount of idiosyncraticinformation which must be registered in the entry of ea(-h verb.The examples discussed so far illustrate just a few of awide range of relationships between alternate xpressions of thearguments of verbs that must be correctly interpreted by anynatural language system that alms at substantial coverage ofEnglish.
We believe that what is required in order to imple-ment a system that meets these demands is an understandingof English lexical organization.
For this reason we draw on re-cent theoretleal linguistic investigations into the lexical knowl-edge possessed by native speakers of English carried out by theMIT Lexicon Project (Rappaport, Levin, and Laughren \[1988\],Levin \[1985\], Hale and Keyser \[1986\], Levin and Rappaport \[toappear\]).
These studies have established a range of semantic-syntactic interdependencies exhibited by semantically coherentclasses of verbs and have identified a number of essential classesof verbs, as well as the central properties characterizing verbsof each type.The results of this work have been used in the design ofa lexical component for the START natural language systemdeveloped at the MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (Katz\[1988\]).
In this paper we show how these resttlgs allow STAtt2\['to attain a broader ange of coverage than most existing systemswhile maintaining modular organization.3162o Assu\[npt lons about  Lexicai Organizat ionA verb d,~notes an action, state, or process involving one ormore participants, which we refer to as the arguments of theverb.
Solae verbs may express their argtunents in more than oneway, sometimes wi~h slightly different semantic interpretations.We say th*~t such verbs patriciate in argument alternations.
Wehave seen that certain verbs have both transitive and intransitiveuses, and That the relationship between the uses is not uniformacross all eerbs; rather, it is a property of the verb involved.We say theft such verbs participate in transitivity alternations,a subclass of argument alternations.
So far, we have seen theindefinite object alternation, in (9), and the reflexive alternation,in (10):(9) Sally ~de a pear.
:~:,-,~ Sally ate.
(i.e., Sally ate some food.
)(10) David dressed the baby.
: :~  David dressed.
(i.e., Daviddressed himself.
)These are only two of about a dozen transitivity alternationsfound in English.
(See Atkins, Keg/, and Levln \[1986\], Hale andKeyser It9~t6\], Levin \[1985\] for a description of various otheraltern~tion.~l.)
A question that a system designer might ask iswhether the argument Mternations a verb participates in arepredictable or whether they are merely an idiosyncratic propertyof that w~rt,.
This question is clearly also of linguistic interest.Argument alternations, including transitivity alternations,have receiw~d considerable attention from theoretical linguists.It tin'as out that each alternation is associated with particularsemantic types of verbs.
Thus the verbs participating in theindefinite object alternation ate all activity verbs; most of themdescribe typical occup.ations: a(11) drink, eat, file, iron, plow, read, sweep, type, write ....The verbs pa~rtieipating in the reflexive alternation are all verbsof grooming:(12) bathe, brnsh, change, comb, dress, shave, shower, wash, ...Studies of phenon:ena such as those described here revealthat Englis:h verbs are organized into classes on the basis ofshared components of meaning.
The members of these classesshare certai:: syntactic properties, specifically properties con-cerning the possible expressions of their arguments.
To statethis differently, certain linguistically relewnt aspects of a verb'smeaning serve as a pointer to its place in the organizationalscheme of English verbs.
Once this place is identified, varioussyntactic properties of a verb can be determined.For linguists working on the lexicon the study of alter- inations can provide insight into linguistically relevant aspectsof meaning due to the interdependency between the syntacticand semantic properties of a verb.
(For instance, see Hale andKeyser \[1987\] for a discussion of another transitivity alternation,the middle ttlternation, from this perspective).
For eompttta-tional linguists this characteristic of lexicM organization sug-gests a modtflar system design: many lexical properties can beassociated with verb classes, and need not be registered in thelexical entries of individual verbs, which can simply indicateclass rnember~hip.
These ideas are incorporated into the designof tb.e START system, as we describe in detail in the remainderof the paper.1 In certain circumstances, a much wider range of English transitiveverbs show an intransitlve use with an indefinite object interpre-tation: when they are used by people whose activity involves theaction denoted by the verb to describe the activity.
For exam-ple, the verb stuff does not usually occur without an object, ~Shestuffs, but if this verb is used to describe the activity of someoneWho stuffs pillows in a pillow-factory, then it would be M1 right touse the verb :ntransitively.3.
An Overv iew of the START systemThe START natural language system (SynTactic Analysis us-ing Reversible Transformations) consists of two modules whichshare the same Grammar (see Katz \[1980\], Katz and Winston\[1982\]).
The understanding module analyzes English text andproduces a knowledge base which incorporates the informationfound in the text.
Given an appropriate segment of the knowl-edge base, the generating module produces English sentences.
Auser can retrieve the information stored in the knowledge baseby querying it in English.
The system will then produce anEnglish response.START has been used by researchers at MIT, StanfordUniversity, and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for constructingand querying knowledge bases using English.
(See, for exam-ple, Winston \[1982\], [1984\], Winston, Binford, Katz, and Lowry\[1983\], Doyle \[1984\], Katz and Brooks \[19871).START rearranges the elements of the parse tree it con-structs into embedded ternary expressions (T-expressions) bytying together the three most salient parameters of a sentence,the subject, the object, and the relation between them, <subjectrelat ion object>.
For instance, the sentence(13) Gabriella might buy some stickerswill result in the T-expression <Gabr ie l la  buy stickers>.Certain other parameters (adjectives, possessive nouns, preposi-tional phrases, etc.)
are used to create additional T-expressionsin which prepositions and several special words serve as rela.-finns.The remaining parameters--adverbs andtheir position, ten-se, auxiliaries, voice, negation, etc.--are recorded in a represen.rational structure called history.
The history has a page per-taining to each sentence which yields the given T-expression.When we index the T-expression in the knowledge base, wecross-reference its three components and attach the history Hto it.
One can thus think of the resulting entry in the knowl-edge base as a "digested summary" of the syntactic structure ofEnglish sentences.In order to handle embedded sentences, START allows anyT-expression to take another T-expression as its subject or ob--jeer.
START can analyze and generate sentences with arb:trar-ily complex embedded structures.We conclude our description of START with a brief overviewof how the system answers questions.
Questions are requests forinformation from START's knowledge base.
In order to answer aquestion START must translate the question into a T-expressiontemplate which can be used to search the knowledge base forT-expressions which contain infornmtion relevant o providingan answer to the question.
We illustrate the actual question~answering process with an example.
Suppose that as a resultof analyzing and indexing a text containing sentence (14), theknowledge base contains T-expression (15):(14) Mary presented Paul with a gift.
(15) <<Mary  present  Pau l> with gift>Now suppose that a user asks START the following wh-question:(16) Whom did Mary present with a gift?In the context of.
(14) the answer is Paul.
In order to deter-mine this, the system must first turn the question into a T-expression template that can be used to search the knowledgebase.
The first step in this process is to undo the effects of the~h-movement transformation that is used to create English wh-questions.
To do this, START must find the place in sentence(16) that the wh-word whom came from and then insert thewh-word in this position:317(17) Mary presented whom with a gift.Next the language understanding system leads sentence (17)through the same flow of control as any other declarative sen-tence and produces the following T-expression which serves asa pattern used to query the knowledge base:(18) <<Mary present whom> with gift>Treating whom as a matching variable, the system feeds T-expression (18) through amatcher in order to determine whetherthere is anything in the knowledge base that matches (18).
Themarcher finds the T-expression created from (14):(19) <<Mary present Paul> with gift>and the language generation system then uses this T-expressionto produce the English response to question (16):(20) Mary presented Paul with a gift.START handles yes-no questions in a similar fashion.
Sup-pose that START had been asked the yes-no question(21) Did Mary present Paul with a gift?As in the wh-case, START would turn this question into aT-expression template that could be matched against he T-expressions in the knowledge base.
The difference between yea-no and wh-questions is that the T-expression template generatedby a yes-no question would contain o variables.
The questionabove would generate the template <<Mary present Paul>with gift> which would match against (19), allowing the sys-tem to answer:(22) Yes, Mary presented Paul with a gift.4.
Introducing S-rulesSince T-expressions in the START system are built using thepattern <subject relation object> at every level of embed-ding, they mimic the hierarchical organization of English sen-tences.
As a consequence, sentences differing in their surfacesyntax but close in meaning are not considered similar by thesystem.
For example, given sentence (23) as input, START willcreate an embedded T-expression (24), whereas a near para-phrase, sentence (25), will generate T-expression (26):(23) Mary presented Paul with a gift(24) <<Mary present Paul> with gift>(25) Mary presented a gift to Paul(26) <<Mary present gift> to Paul>Speakers of English know that sentences (23) and (25) both de-scribe a transfer of possession.
In both sentences, the gift isthe transferred object, Paul is the recipient of this object, andMary is the agent of the transfer~ despite different syntactic re-alizations of some of these arguments.
It seems natural thatthis kind of knowledge be available to a natural language sys-tem.
However, START, as described so far, does not considerT-expressions (24) and (26), which are associated with thesesentences, tobe similar.The difference in the T-expressions becomes particularlyproblematic when START is asked a question.
An example willclarify this point.
Suppose the input text contains only onepresent sentence, (27), and the knowledge base contMns onlythe corresponding T-expression, (28):(27) Mary presented Paul with a gift(28) <<Mary present Paul> with gift>Now suppose the user asked the following question:(29) To whom did Mary present a gift?318Although a speaker of English could easily answer this questionafter being told sentence (27), START would not be able toanswer it.
This question presents a problem for START becauseT-expression (30) produced by question (29) will not match T-expression (28).
(30) <<Mary present gift> to whom>START is unable to answer such questions because it isunaware of the interactions between the syntactic and semanticproperties of verbs.
This limitation is a serious drawback sinceinteractions similar to the one just described pervade the Englishlanguage and, therefore, cannot be ignored in the constructionof a natural language system.The present example illustrates that START needs informa-tion that allows it to deduce the relationship between alternaterealizations ofthe arguments of verbs.
In this instance, we wantSTART to know that whenever A presents B with C, then Apresents C to B.
We do this by introducing rules that makeexplicit the relationship between alternate realizations of thearguments ofverbs.
We call such rules S~rules (where S standsfor both Syntax and Semantics).
Here is the S-rule that solvesthe problem caused by the verb present:(31) Present S-ruleIf <<subject present object1> with object2>Then <<subject present object2> to objectl>S-rules are implemented asa rule-based system.
Each S-ruleis made up of two parts, an antecedent (the IF-clause) and aconsequent (the THEN-clause).
Each clause consists of a set oftemplates for T-expressions, where the template lements arefilled by variables or constants.
For example, the Present S-rulecontains three variables, subject, object1, object2, which are usedto represent the noun phrases in the T-expressions.
This rulealso contains three constants, present, with, and to, shown inboldface.
The Present S-rule will apply only to T-expressionswhich involve the verb present and which meet the additionalstructural constraints.S-rules operate in two modes: forward and backward.
Wedescribe both modes of operation briefly, although in this pa-per we concentrate onS-rules operating in the backward mode,since this mode is most useful in a Question-Answering naturallanguage system.When triggered by certain conditions, S-rules in the forwardmode allow the system to intercept T-expressions produced bythe understanding module, transform or augment them in a wayspecified by the rule, and then incorporate the result into theknowledge base.
For instance, if the Present S-rule is used in theforward mode, as soon as its antecedent matches T-expression(32) produced by the understanding module, it creates a newT-expression (33) and then adds it to the knowledge base:(32) <<Mary present Paul> with gift>(33) <<Mary present gift> to Paul>Now question (29) can be answered since T-expression (30) as-sociated with this question matches against T-expression (33).The generating module of START responds:(34) Mary presented a gift to Paul.All additional facts produced by the forward S-rules are in-.stantly entered in the knowledge basel The forward mode isespecially useful when the information processed by START isput into action by another computer system because in such asituation START ought to provide the interfacing system withas much data as possible.In contrast, the backward mode is employed when the userqueries the knowledge base.
Often for reasons of computa-tional e/l~cleney, it is advantageous not to incorporate all in-ferred knowledge into the knowledge base immediately.
S-rulesin the bac:kward mode trigger only when a request comes inwhich cannot be answered irectly, initiating a search in theknowledge base to determine if the answer can be deduced fromthe available information.
For example, the Present S-rule usedin the backward mode does not trigger when sentence (27) isread and T-expression (28) is produced by START.
The S-ruletriggers only when question (29) is asked since this questioncannot be answered irectly.5.
The  I,exical Component  of STARTIn order to lmderstand an English sentence, the START systemneeds to have morphological, syntactic, and semantic informa-tion about the words in the sentence.
All the words that thesystem is aware of, along with information about their part ofspeech, inflection, gender ~,number, etc.
are stored in the Lex-icon.
Virtually every branch of START uses the Lexicon toaccomplish i~s task.
In this section we discuss the way in whichthe Lexicon extends the system's ability to dcal with semantic-syntactic interdependencies.
We show that the Lexicon providesa place where a verb's membership in a semantic lass can beregistered, a)lowing more general S-rules to be stated.To exantine how lexieal information about verb classes maybe utilized by the S-rules, we introduce another argument al-ternation in English, the property-factoring alternation (VanOosten \[1980\]).
Consider the following sentence:(35) Paul surprised the audience with his answer.An English speaker knows that sentence (35) can be paraphrased(36) Paul's answer surprised the audience.Notice that in (35), the subject brings about the emotional reac-tion (surprise) by means of some property expressed in the withphrase.
Sentence (36) describes the same emotionM reaction asin (35) but in (36) the property and its possessor are collapsedinto a single noun phrase.Suppose that after sentence (35) is typed into the computer,we ask:(37) Did Paul's answer surprise the audience?While a speaker of English would know that the answer to thisquestion is Yes, this reply is not obvious to START since T-expressions :related to sentence (35) and question (37) are verydifferent: 2(38) <<Pau l  surpr ise  aud ience> wi th  answer>(39) <answer  surpr ise  aud ience>Extending t:he approach taken to the example with the verbpresent in section 4, we could formulate a simple S-rule thatcould be used to answer question (37).
The Surprise S-rule (40),like the Present S-rule, makes explicit the relationship betweenthe alternate realizations of the arguments of the verb surprise:'2'1'o simplify the exposition we do not show the T-expression de-scribing the relation between the property (answer) and its pos-sessor  (P,~'.l).
(40) Surprise S-ruleI f  <<subject surpr ise  object1> wi th  object2>Then <object2 surpr ise  object1>In taking this approach we are explicitly associating the property-factoring alternation with the verb surprise; we are assumingthat it is an idiosyncratic property of the verb.Formulating a special purpose S-rule which applies only tothe verb surprise does not seem to be the best solution to theproblem.
Surprise is only one of many verbs which exhibit theproperty-factoring alternation.
This alternation holds of a largeclass consisting of over one hundred verbs, among them(41) anger, annoy, embarrass, frighten, impress, please, ...For example:(42) Miriam amused Jessica with her performance.
(43) Miriam's performance amused Jessica.
(44) Gabriella scared the turtle with a sudden movement.
(45) Gabriella's udden movement scared 'the turtle.These verbs also share a certain semantic property: they alldenote emotional reactions.
For this reason we identify a classof emotional-reaction verbs and say that the property of the verbsurprise responsible for the alternation shown in (35) and (36)holds for all verbs that comprise the emotional-reaction class.
3Once we have tied the ability to participate in the property-factoring alternation to a particular class of verbs, we no longerneed to indicate this property in the lexical entry of each verbin the class or write verb-specific S-rules, such as the SurpriseS-rule.
Rather, we can associate the alternation with the classand then simply indicate in the lcxical entry of a verb whetherit belongs to tlfis class.
That is, we augment a verb's lexicalentry with an indication of its semantic lass membership.
Forinstance, we would register in the entry for surprise that it is amember of the emotional-reaction class.
4(46) (surpr ise :verb :emotional-reaction)Now instead of writing a number of verb-specific S-rules, we canwrite a single general S-rule which triggers not only on the verbsurprise, but on any verb fl'om the emotional-reaction class:(47) Property-factoring S-ruleI f  <<subject verb object1> wi th  object2>Then <object2 verb object1>Prov ided  verb E emotional-reaction classThe revised S-rule contains a PROVIDI~D clause which specifiesthe class of verbs to which the rule applies, ensuring that itapplies to the emotional-reaction verbs.When question (37) is asked, the Property-factoring S-rule(used in the backward mode) will trigger, since the T-expression(48) <answer  surpr ise  aud ience>3These verbs have been the subject of extensive study ill the linguis-tic literature because of these and other characteristic propertiesthat set this class apart.
(See Postal \[1971\], Pesetsky \[1987\], Bel-letti and R.izzi \[1986\], Grimshaw \[to appea-\], and many others).This class of verbs which take the experiencer argument (the per-son experiencing the emotions) as object should be distinguishedfrom a second class of verbs of psychological state which take theexperlencer argument as subject.
The latter class which includesverbs like admire, detest, esteem, hate, and like will not be dis-cussed in this paper.4Irrelevant details have been suppressed in this lexical entry.519produced by the question matches the THEN-part of the rule,and furthermore, the verb surprise belongs to the emotional-reaction class.
The correct answer to question (37) is deducedwhen the appropriately instantiated IF-part of the S-rule ismatched to T-expression (38) found in the knowledge base.
Hereis how START responds:(49) Yes, Paul's answer surprised the audience.The PROVIDED restriction of S-rule (47) not only allowsthe rule to apply to verbs of the appropriate semantic type,but it also prevents the rule from applying to verbs that donot display the property-factoring alternation.
For instance,the verbs surprise and present can express their arguments ina similar fashion--both are found in the context \[NP V NPwith NP\], but they differ in the other realizations of their arg-u-ments.
Specifically present does not participate in the property-factoring alternation, as (50) shows, nor does surprise partic-ipate in the alternation that present participates in, as (51)shows:(50) Mary presented Paul with a gift.
*Mary's gift presented Paul.
(51) Paul surprised the audience With his answer.
*Paul surprised his answer to the audience.In the absence of the PROVIDED clause, the Property-factoringS-rule could potentially misapply to verbs like present.The surprise example shows how the addition of informa-tion about semantic lass membership to verb entries allows thesystem to handle a particular phenomenon (or lexieal property)common to all verbs in a particular class, with the help of a sin-gle S-rule.
We refer to this approach as the verb class approach.We could have achieved the same effect in another way: in-stead of specifying verb class membership in the entry of eachverb, we could have explicitly registered the lexical propertiesthat apply to the verb (or the names of the corresponding S-rules).
Taking this approach, the lexical entry for surprisewould indicate property-factoring instead of emotionabreactionbut would otherwise be unchanged.
(52) (surprise :verb :property-factorlng)This approach could allow us to dispense with the PROVIDEDclause in the S-rules since the lexical entry of a verb would betagged with the set of S-rules that could apply to that verb.However, the verb class approach as a clear advantage overthe alternative lexical property approach when more than oneproperty is involved.
Typically each semantic lass of verbs hasa number of properties associated with it, which must ultimatelybe handled by a natural anguage system.If we take the lexical property approach, whenever we adda new lexical property, we would need to write an S-rule forthis new property, and we would then have to add the propertyto the lexical entry of each member of the class of verbs thatexhibit this property.In contrast, if we take the verb class approach, it is easy toextend the system to handle new properties of a class of verbs.All that is required is the addition of the appropriate S-rule,formulated so that it triggers on this class of verbs.
There is noneed to alter the lexical entries of the members of the class inany way if the lexical entry of each verb in the class indicatesthat it is a member of this class.
Thus the verb class approach,unlike the lexical property approach, allows a more modularsystem design; this in turn allows the coverage of the system tobe extended more easily.320To illustrate that each class of verbs is characterized by awhole cluster of properties, we survey just a few of the propertiesassociated with the emotional-reaction verbs.
They participatein several transitivity alternations--the middle alternation in(53) and (54) (see Keyser and Roeper \[1984\], Hale and Keyser\[1987\], among others) and the null-object alternation i  (55) and(56) (aizzi \[1986\]):(53) Dogs frighten little children.
(54) Little children frighten easily.
(55) Thunder never fails to frighten people.
(56) Thunder never fails to frighten.The subject of the middle use (54) bears the same semanticrelation to the verb as the object of the transitive use (53),while the subject of the nnll-object use (56) bears the samesemantic relation to the verb as the subject of the transitiveuse (55).
The null-object alternation, like the indefinite objectalternation, involves an unexpressed but understood object inthe intransitive variant.
However, the understood object here isinterpreted as "people".Emotional-reacti0n verbs are also set apart by another prop--erty: they only have passive nominals.
Thus, the children's dis-appointment means that the children experienced isappoint-ment (passive interpretation), not that they caused disappoint-ment (active interpretation).
Compare the interpretation ofthisnominal to that of the nominal related to a verb like describe:Gene's description can refer to the description that Gene gave(active interpretation) or to a description that someone gave ofGene (passive interpretation).We return to the example involving present discussed in theprevious ection.
The alternation manifested by the verb presentis exhibited by the members of a small class of verbs which alsoincludes entrust, furnish, supply, and trust.
The Present S-rulein (31) can be generalized so that it will apply to the entire classof verbs like present, which we name the present class.
(57) Presentation S-ruleI f  <<subject verb objectl> with object2>Then <<subject verb object2> to objectl>Provided verb E present classNow suppose that after typing (58) we ask question (59):(58) Mark supplied the restaurant with fresh vegetables.
(59) Did Mark supply fresh vegetables to the restaurant?Since the verb supply is a member of the Present class, the SLrulein (57) applies and START will be able to answer the questioncorrectly:(60) Yes, Mark supplied fresh vegetables to the restaurant.The examples described in this section show how the trans-parent syntax of the S-rules coupled with the information aboutverb class membership provided by the Lexicon facilitates fluentand flexible dialog between the user and the language processingsystem.6.
Employing S-Rules: Additional ExamplesIn this section we present additional dialogues that START canhandle.
These interchanges are chosen to illustrate the use ofS-rules as well as the range of coverage of the START system.In the process we introduce S-rules that handle several moresemantic-syntactic interdependencies, including the indeflrfiteobject and reflexive alternations discussed in the introductionto the paper.At the beginning of tim paper we presentcd two short in-terchange.,~ between two speakers of English and asked what itwould take for a natural anguage system to be able to partici-pate in these interchanges.
We repeat the examples below:(61) Speat:er 1: Sally ate a pear.Speal~:er 1: Did Sally eat?Speat:er 2: Yes.
(62) 5peat:er 1: David dressed the baby.Speaker 1: Did David dress?Speaker 2: I don't know.These examples were used to ilhlstrate some of the semantic-syntactic ;nterdependencies characteristic of verbs that partioipate in bansit ivity alternations.
Verbs that have both transi-tive and i*ttransitive uses differ in the interpretations a sociatedwith their intransit, ive uses, as these interchanges were intendedto show.
S-rules allow START to answer questions that drawon knowledge of the semantic-syntactic interdependencies thatare manitk~sted in transitivity alternations.The two transitivity alternations relevant o the interchan-ges above are the indefinite object alternation (with eat) andthe reflexive alternation (with dress).
When used intransitively,verbs thai.
participate in the indefinite object alternation de-scribe actions where there is an iml)lied object which is under-stood to be something that is a typical object of the verb.
Thus:(63) Sally ate a pear.
==> Sally ate.
(i.e., Sally ate some foodor a meal.
)We can formulate an S-rule that makes explicit the relationshipbetween the transitive and the intransitive use of such verbs.
(64) indefinite-object S-ruh:I f  <subject verb object>"1?he a <subject verb>Prov ided  verb E activi~y/oec.ll, patio.a chessNow if S':CAt~'F were asked "Did Sally eat?"
after having beentold that Sally ate a pear, START would be able to answer"Yes", assunfing that ear's lexical entry indicates that it is amember st  the activity/occupation class.In order to handle the dress interchange, START needs anS-rule that captures the properties of the reflexive alternationshown by verbs of grooming.
The intransitive use of a verbthat participates in this alternation implies that the subjectperfornmd tl,e action denoted by the verb on himself or herself.
(65) David dressed.
--==> David dressed himself.We can capture the special interpretation associated with theintransitiw~ use of a verb like dress by means of an S-rule:(66) Reflexive S J'uleI f  <subject verb>Then <subject verb subject>_Provided verb E grooming classNow if asked "Did ~leff dress himself?
", after being told that Jeffdresscd, tim system would answer "Yes" since the lexical entryof dress in(iicates that it is a verb of grooming.
START will alsobe ablc to handle the following more complex interchange:(67) Input: Ann dressed and Mau'y dressed the baby.Question: Who dressed herself?STA.II!I': Ann dressed herself.Quest~ion: Who dressed the baby?START: Mary dressed the baby.Oueation: Did Mary dress?STAt/T: I don't know.In a more complex situation, S-rules are allowed to triggereach other and to ask each other for help.
To exemplify this, weintroduce two more S-rules.
These rules are used to capture theproperties of a cl~s of verbs that has received substantial at-tention in the linguistics literature (see Anderson \[1971\], Fraser\[19711, Schwarz-Norman \[1976\], Jeffries and Willis \[1984\], Rap-paport and Levin \[1986\], among othms).
We refer to this class astile spray/load class after two prototypicM members.
The verbsin this class describe actions that involve putting substances ormaterials on surfaces (e.g.
spray) or in containers (e.g.
load).What distinguishes one member of the spray/load class fromanother is the manner in which this action is performed.
Somemembers of this class are listed below:(68) load, pack, pile, smear, spray, spread, stack, stuff, wrap, ...All the members of this class display an argument alternation,the locative alternation; they arc."
found in two syntactic frames,as illustrated below:(69) Miriam sprayed paint on tl~e wall.
(locative variant)(70) Miriam sprayed the wall with paint.
(with variant)(71) Jan loaded hay on the truck.
(72) ,Jan loaded the truck with hay.Although the sentences in each of these pairs might appear atfirst glance to be paraphrases, they are not.
For instance, in thefirst pMr, only (69), the locative w~riant, may be used to describea situation where a small portion of the.
wall is covered wifllpaint as a result of the spraying (the partitive interpretation),while sentence (70), the with variant, necessarily implies ~hat,the wall is entirely covered with paint as a result of the action(the holistic interpretation).
The sentences in each pair ~'~rc nearparaphrases in the sense that the truth of the with variant entailsthe truth of the locative varimlt, but not vice versa.Before we can ibrmulate an S-rule that captures ~;lle relationbetween the two variants, we need to look more closely at thelocative variant.
When used in the locative variant, apray/loadverbs are found with a wide range of locative prepo.,;itions (tlmset of prepositions indicating spatial relationships).
(73) Miriam sprayed paint on/under/around the table.When the .with variant of a spray/load verb is part,phrased bythe locative variant, typically only one d the range of locativeprepositions i possible; the choice is a function of the verb in-volved.
The verbs stray and load both involve the prepositionon in the locative variant, but the w.wb stuff requires the prepo.-sition into, while the verb wrap requires around:(74) Jessiea stuffed the pillow with feattmrs.
(75) aessica stuffed the feathers into tile pillow.
(76) Oabriella wrapped tile package with paper.
(77) Gabriella wrapped paper around the package.It appears that each spray~load verb is associated with a defaultlocative preposition that must be indicated in its lexical entry:(78) (spray :verb :spray-load :defimlt.-preposition o )(79) (wrap :verb :spray-load :default-preposition around)(80) (stuff  :verb :spray-load :default-preposition into)We can now write an S-rule that captures the relation between the with and locative variants of the locative alternation:(8:1.)
Itolistie/pariitive S-ruleI f  <<subject verb object1> wi th  object2>Then <<subject verb object2> prepLoc object1>Prov ided  verb (?
spray/load classIn this S-rule tile variable ~prepLoc' is instantiated with thedefault locative preposition associated with tile verb tim rule isapplying to.521Using the Holistic/partitive S-rule, START is easily able tohandle the following interchanges:(82) Input: Matilda stuffed the suitcase with books.Question: Did Matilda stuff the books into the suitcase?START: Yes, Matilda stuffed the books into the suitcase.
(83) Input: Miriam wrapped the book with paper.Question: Who wrapped the paper around the book?START: Miriam wrapped the paper around the book.To illustrate how S-rules can trigger each other, we in-troduce an S-rule motivated by another property of spray~loadverbs.
We have seen that the with variant of a spray~load verbentails the locative variant.
In addition, the locative variant,which describes the placement of some substance in a containeror on some surface, implies that the substance will be in the con-taincr or on the surface.
That is, sentence (84) entails sentence(85):(84) Jan loaded hay on the truck.
(85) Hay was on the truck.The following S-rule can be used to capture this property ofspray~load verbs.
5(86) Resulting Location S-ruleI f  <<subject verb object1> prePLOC object2>Then <<subject be> prepLoc object2>Prov ided  verb E spray/load classWe attribute the entailment relationship between the two vari-ants described by the Holistic/partitive S-rule to a speaker's lin-guistic knowledge, while the entailment relationship describedby the Resulting Location S-rule reflects real world knowledge.We introduced the Resulting Location S-rule in order to showhow one S-rule can operate on the output of another.
The Holis-tic/partitive S-rule and the Resulting Location S-rule togetherallow sentence  (88) to be deduced fl'om sentence (87):(87) ,\]an loaded the truck with hay.
(88) Hay was on the truck.By using both these S-rules, the system can handle the followinginterchange:(89) Input: Jan loaded the truck with hay.Question: Was there hay on the truck?START: Yes, there was hay on the truck.The syntactic omponent of START is able to undo the effectsof the There-Insertion rule in the question, translating it intothe T-expression(90) <<hay be> on t ruck>This T-expression does not match anything in the knowledgebase, so START tries to apply S-rules.
The Resulting Loca-tion S-rule used in the backward mode can apply to this T-expression, suggesting that START then searches for the T-expression that matches template (91) below, where the variableverb is restricted to members of the spray/load class.
(91) <<subject verb hay> on t ruck>This T-expression also does not match against anything in theknowledge base, but it triggers the Holistic/partitive S-rule,5The PROVIDED clause in the Resulting Location S-rule restrictsthis rule to the sprayfload verbs.
Actually this S-rule applies to alarger set of verbs, the set of causative verbs of change of location,including put, place, insert and transitive move, slide, drop, as wellas the sprayfload verbs.
For instance, if Rebecca put the bookson the table, then the books are on the table.
We have givena restrictive formulation of the PROVIDED clause in this S-rulesince we do not want to discuss the implications of introducing ahierarchy of verb class types for the operation of S-rules.322which when applied produces(92) <<subject verb t ruck> wi th  hay>Finally, T-expression (92) matches with the T-expression(93) <<Jan  load t ruck> wi th  hay>obtained from the Input sentence in (89), allowing START togenerate the appropriate answer.Below we show some further examples of interchanges suc-cessfully handled by START through the use of additional S-rules.
These examples involve verbs of manner of motion, listedin (94), and verbs of creation, listed in (97):(94) climb, cross, fly, gallop, jump, march, swim, walk, ...(95) Input: Albert jmnped over the fence.Question: Did he jump the fence?START: Yes, Albert jumped the fence.
(96) Input: Candy climbed up the mountain.Question: What did Candy climb?START: Candy climbed the mountain.
(97) bake, carve, croche~ hammer, knit, sew, weave, ...(98) Input: Jessica baked the dough into round loaves.Question: What did Jessica bake round loaves from?START: Jessica baked round loaves from ~he dough.
(99) Input: Miriam carved wood into a doll.Question: Out of what did Miriam carve the doll?START: Miriam carved the doll out of the wood.At any given moment many S-rules may be hidden in thecomputer's memory examining the output flow generated bySTART and waiting tbr their turn to participate in the deduc-tion process.
S-rules fundamentally expand the power of oursystem; they open a window into the intricate world of semantic-.syntactic interactions.7.
Lexical AcquisitionA natural language system must be built in such a way thatis is easy to expande its coverage, not only by increasing thesize of the lexicon but also by adding to the set of differentphenomena covered by its grammar.
Due to the large numberof semantic-syntactic interdependencies, increasing the coverageof a system's grammar might seem to be prohibitively expensive.It would require meddling with the entries of every verb in theLexicon, in order to register its behavior with respect o the newphenomenon.
But once a phenomenon is assoeiated with one ormore verb classes, it need only be associated with these classes.There is no need to tamper with the entries of the individualverbs or construct verb-specific S-rules, as long as the lexicalentries of verbs indicate class membership.
Thus the problemof incorporating new phenomena is considerably simplified.The process of lexical acquisition (adding new words to theLexicon and specifying the relevant information about them) i,-~very simple in START.
Introducing a new lexical item amountsto little more than appending it to a list of similar words, addinga few idiosyncratic features when necessary.
For example, if wewanted to add the verb annoy to START's lexicon, we wouldsimply have to add the verb together with an indication that itis a member of the emotional-reaction class.
(1O0) (annoy  :verb :emotional-reactlon)The lexical entry would not need to contain an explicit indi-cation that this verb participates in the property-factoring al-ternation since the S-rule representing this alternation makesexplicit that this property holds of all members of the emotional-reaction clw~s.
The class mcntbershiI) indication in annoy's lex-ical entry would allow the S-rules that apply to the emotional-reaction cla:~s in general to apply to this verb in partienlar, sothat STAI~C will be able t(, hm~(lle sequences such as the fol-lowing:(10\]) Inpu*: '_/'he dog annoyed the guests with its loud barking.
(2ueaiion: Whom did the dog's lond harking annoy?S!/'A R.T: q?he dog's loud barking annoyed the guests.The acquisition of S-rules is equally simple in the STAHTsystem due to a special component ~ha.t allows STAI-~I' to in-~eer S..rules tram examples.
Adding a new S-rule to the systemrequires typing in a set of English sentences which capture aspecific insta,me of the rule.
lh)r insl;ance, a pair of declar-~tive seats, tees (sa,:h as (35) and (36)), which exemplify theproperty-f~w.toring alternation, can be used by S'\]'ARSi?
to i~fferthe celated S rule.
'.I.
'o do t, his, STAtG.'
analyzes the sentences,queries th,~ user for ad(titional information regarding elementsof co~responding T-expre'~sions (a,';certaining whether they aretoo.lashing variable, Z constants, or predicates), and then buildstrod general\zes the S--rule automatically.Carefld examination of English verb cbmses (see Levin \[toappear\]) combined with the effective mployment of S-rules al-lows the system to red*me to a minimuln the amount of idiosyn-coat, is ,~ynt~etie and semantic information in the Lexicon.
Allthis makes t,he system transportable; that is, it is easily adapt-able to new domains.go Cone ias ionThe addition of a componen~ that explicitly encodes verb classesand their characteristic properties, enables the START systemto handle s wide range of phenomena reflecting sernantic-syn-t~etlc correspondences that are characteristic of English verbs.By t?~(:toring properties that, belong to whole classes of verl:,s outof the entries of individual verbs and letting these entries implydesignate the verb's class membership, we do more than merelysimplify entries.
We facilitate the addition of new words to thelexicon and make it easier to extend tile system's coverage oflinguistic phenomena.A(.
'knowledgn-mnd;sWe arc gral;e.ful to aa~e Simpson, Misha Katz, and Tom Maril\]for bdpfnl  comme_u{s mtd suggestions concerning this paper, andto Jeff Pah,mcci who rontributed signiiieantly to the Question-Answering pa~rt of the system.This paper describes research done at the MassachusettsInstitute of Technology.
Support tbr i(atz's work was providedin part by the Advanced P~esearch Projects Agency under Of-flee of Naval Resc~rch contract N0014-85-K-0124.
Support forLevin~s work w~m provided in part by a grant to the LexiconProject of the MIT Center for Cognitive Science from the Sys-tem Derek,parent Foundation.Refe.renees1.
S.R.
Anderson, "On tile Role of l)cep Strueture in Semantic Interpre-tation," l,'ou'adatio'ns of Languag(: 7i ',!87-.39tL 1971.2.
B.T.
At&ins, J. Keglj ~,nd B. l',evin~ "Fxplicit trod hnplieit Informs.-lion in Dictionaries," Lexicon Project Working Papers 12, Center htrCognigive Science, MIT~ Cambridge, MA, 1986.3.
A. Belletti and L. Rizzi, "Psych-Verbs and Th-Theory," Lexicon Projest Working Pal)ers 13, Center for Cognitive Science, MIT, Cam-bridge, MA, 1986.
To appear in Natural Language and LinguisticTheory.4.
R.J. Doyle, "tlypothesizing and Refining Causal Models," M.I.T.
Ar-tificial lnteUigence Laboratory Menm No.
811, December 1984.5.
B. l)~'aser, "A Note on Spray Paint Cases," Linguistic Inquiry 2,603-607, 1971.6. ,1.
Grimshaw, A~yumsnt Stractw,'c, MIT Prea% Cambridge, MA, toappmtr.7.
K.L.
Hale and S.J.
Keyser, "Some Transilivit.y Alternations in En-glish," Lexicon Project Working Papers 7, Center for Cognitive Sci-ence, MIT, Cambridge, MA, 1986.8.
K.L.
llale and S.J.
Keyser, "A View fl'om the Middle," Lexicon ProjectWorking Papers 1O, Center for Cognitive Science, MEt', Cambridge,MA~ 1987.9.
L. Jeffries and P. Willis, "A l/eturn to the Spray Paint Issue," Journalof Pragmatics 8, 715-.729, 1984.10.
B K~.tz, "A Three-step Procedure for Language Generalion," M.LTArtificial Intelligence Laboratory Memo No.
599, December 198{I.11.
B. Katz, "Using English for Indexing and l/etrieving," RIB 0.88 Con-ference on User~oricnted Content-based !l'eg:t and Image Handling,Cambridge, MA, 1988.12.
B. Katz and R.N.
th.ooks, "Understanding Natural t,anguage forSpacecraft Sequencing," Journal of the B'ritish lnlcrplanetary Soci-ety, vol.
,tO, no.
10, 1987.la.
B. Katz and P.tl.
Winston, "A Two-way Natural Language Interface,"in Integrated Interactive 6'omputing Systems, edited by P. l)egano andE.
Sandewall, North-Ilolland, Amsterdam, 1982.14.
S.J.
Keyser and T. Roeper, "On the Middle and Ergative Construc-tions in English," Lingnistic I}tquiry 15, 381-416, 1984.15.
B. Levin, "Introduction," in Le~ical Semantics in .Review, edited I,yB.
l,evin, Lexicon Project Working Papers 1, Center for CognitiveScience, M1T, Cambridge, MA, 1985.16.
B. Levin, "Approaches to l,exical Semantic I~cl)rescnLation," in A'atomatin9 the Lexicon, edited by D. Walker, A. Zarnpolli, and N. Carlzolari, MIT Pre,~% Cambridge, MA, to appear.17.
B. Levitt and M. Rappaport, Unaccnsativity: at glee Syr~.tax.
Se'manticsInterface," MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, to appear.18.
D. Pesetsky, "Binding Problerns with Experiencer ~,'erbs," l;iw/uisticInqni','y 18, 126-140, 1987.19.
P. Postal, Cross-Over Phenomena, Itolt, Rinehart, and Winstm~, NY.1971.20.
M. Rappaport and B. Levin, "What to Do with Thetaqlolcs," Lexiron Project Working Papers 11, Center for Cognitive Science, Mr/',Cambridge, MA, 1986.21.
M. Rappaport, B. Levin, and M. Laughren, "Niveaux de rel)re~enration lexicale", Lexique 7, 1988.
An English translation 'Levels ofLexieal Representation" appears as l,exicon Project Worldng I)~q)c~;20, Center for Cognitive Science, MIT, 1987.22.
L. Rizzi, "Null Objects in Italian and the Theory of pro," LinguisticInquiry 17, 501-557, 1986.23.
L. Schwartz-Norman, "The Grammar of '('ontent' and 'Container',"Jov;rnal of Linguistics 12, 279-287, 1976.24.
J.
Van Oosten, "Subjects, Topics and Agents: Evidence from Pro-perty-factoring," Proceedings of the Berkeley \[,inguis/ic.s Society 6,Berkeley, CA, 1980.25.
P.H.
Winston, ArtificialIntelligence, Addison-Wesley, Readi~g, MA,1984.26.
P.II.
Winston, "Learning New Principles from Precedents and Exer-cises," Artificial Intelligence, vol.
19, no.
:/, 1982.27.
P.H.
Winston, T.O.
Binford, B. Katz, MAt.
Lowry, "Learnhlg Phys-ical Descriptiolm from Functional Definitimas, Fxamples, and Prece-dents," National Con#ronce on Artificial Intelligence, Washington,D.C., 1983.1523
