Co~npiexity~ Two-Level i~/il~phology and FinnishKimmo KoskemliemiKemieth Ward CtmrchColing 88Abso"actAlthough, Two-Level Morphology has beentbup, d in p~actice to be an extremely efficientmethod for processing Finnish words on velysmffil machines, \[Barton86\] has recently showntt~e ntethod to be NP-haxd.
This paper willdiscuss Bak-ton's theoretical argument ,andexplain why it has not been a problem for us inpractice.1.
77re Two-Level Model'll~e twoolevel model provides a languageindependent framework for describingphonological mid morphological phenomenaassociated with word inflection, derivation andcompounding.
The model can be expressed illtenos of finiteostate machines, and it is easy toimpliement.
\]he model has, in fact, two aspects:(1) it is a linguistic formalism for describingphonological phenomena, and (2) it is acomputational apparatus wtfich implementsdescriptions of particular languages asoperalional systems capable of recog~fizing andgenerating word-fonns.The model consists of three representions(nmq,hological, lexical and surface forms) andtwo systems (the lexicon and phonological rides)rela~hlg them:molphemes in word-fonnIILEXICONII~exk:J mp~'esentafion of word..fom~IITWO~LEVEI, RULESI )surface representation f word4om~"fhc surface representation is typically aphonemic representation of wind-form, butsometimes graphic or wriRen forms are usedinstead.
The lexical representation is anunderlying (postulated) morphophonemicrepresentation of the word stem and affixes.These two representations eed not be identical,and in case there are phonological alternations intl-e language, these representations are more orless different.
The task of the two-level rulecomponent is to account for any discrepanciesbetween these representations.The task of the lexicon component is two-fold.First, it specifies what kinds of lexicalrepresentations are possible according to theinventory of known words and their possibleinflectional tb~ms, plus derivations audcompounds according to productive rules.
Thesecond task of the lexicon is to associate propermorphemes to lexical representations.
The taskof the lexicon component is considered to beuniversal.Many languages can be quite well described withrather simple lexicon stmctmes.
The lexiconneeded for Finnish is basically a set ofsublexicons (for stems, case endings, possessivesuffixes, clitic particles, tense of verbs, person,etc.).
Each entry specifies all continuationlexicons which are possible after that morpheme.This scheme is equivalent to a (pat,lynondetenninistic) finite state transition etwork.Two?level rules compare lexic,-d and surfacerepresentations.
The pmtitive plural of theFinnish wold lasi 'glass' is laseja, Tiffs formmight be represented asa stem lasi plus a pluralending I plus a partitive ending A .
Thecorrespondence would be then be:1 a s i I A lexical1 a s e j a surfaceThe~e are three discrepancies here: the stem finali is realized as e (and not as i like in singulerforths), the plural I is realized as j instead of i,and the partitive A is realized as the back vowel335a (and not as front vowel /i ).
The firstdiscrepancy is described with a two-level rule:i:e <=> I:This states that lexical i is realized as surface  ifand only if it is followed by a lexical I (theplural affix).
The plural I itself is a bit differentfrom other i's because it is realized as j if andonly if it occurs between two surface vowels (letV denote the set of vowels):I:j <=> :V _ :VThe realization of partitive A is an instance ofFinnish vowel harmony, which causes endings toagreee in frontness or backness with stemvowels.
Thus A has two possible realizations: itmust be a back vowel iff there are back vowelsin the stem:\[A:a IO:o \] U:u\] => :Vback :Vnonfront* _The set Vback contains the back vowels a, o,and u whereas Vnonfront contains anything thatdoes not have one of/i 6 iJ on surface.Phonological two-level descriptions have beenmade for about twenty different languages up tonow.
Only about a third of them can beconsidered to he comprehensive.
Typically adescription co:":, ots of 7-40 rules (English andClassical Greek being the low and highextemes).A special compiler is used for converting theserules into finite state transducers (Karttunen,Koskenniemi, and Kaplan, 1987).
The resultingmachines are similar to the ones that were handcompiled, eg.
in (Koskenniemi, 1983).2.
Barton's Challenge\[Barton86\] poses a challenge to find theconstraint that makes words of a naturallanguage asy to process:"The Kimmo algorithms contain the seeds ofcomplexity, for local evidence does not alwaysshow how to construct a lexical-surfacecorrespondence that will satisfy the constraintsexpressed in a set of two-level automata.
Theseseeds can be exploited in mathematical,336reductions to show that two-level automata candescribe computationally difficult problems in avery natural way.
It follows that the finite-statetwo-level framework itself cannot guaranteecomputational efficiency.
If the words of naturallanguages are easy to analyze, the efficiency ofprocessing must result from some additionalproperty that natural languages have, beyondthose that are captured in the two-level model.Otherwise, computationally difficult problemsmight turn up in the two-level automata for somenatural language, just as they do in theartificially constructed languages here.
In fact,the reductions are abstractly modeled on theKimmo treatment of harmony processes andother long-distance dependencies in naturallanguages."
\[Barton86, p56\]We suggest hat words of natural anguages areeasy to analyze because morphological grammarsare small.
As Barton shows, two-levelcomplexity grows rapidly with the number ofharmony processes.
But, fortunately, naturallanguages don't have very many harmonyprocesses.Any single language seems to have at most twoharmony processes:?
zero (most, ie.
some 88 % of languages),?
one (Uralic, Tungusic, Sahaptian) or?
two (most Altaic languages)Even in principle, a three dimensional vowelharmony is rather improbable, because it wouldlead to a total (or almost total) collapse ofdistinctions between vowels.
In most languagesthere are not enough distinctive features invowels to make a four-way harmony evenpossible.
We have not found any reliableaccounts for more than two harmony-likeprocesses in a single language.Normally, most complexity results describespace/time costs as a function of the size of the.input.
Claims in support of the two-level modelare generally of this form; speed is generallymeasured in terms of numbers of lettersprocessed per second.
Barton's result issomewhat non-standard; it describes costs as afunction of the size of the grammar (or moreprecisely, the number of harmony processes).Complexity results generally don't discuss the"grammar constant" because any particulargrammar has just a fixed (and very smallnumber) of rules (such as harmony processes),arid tiros it isn't very helpful to know how thealgorittma would pertbrm if there were more,because there aren't.If phonological grammars were laxge andcomplex, there could be efficiency problemsbecause processing time does depend on the sizeand structure of the grammar.
However, sincephonolo~pcal grammars tend to be relativelysmall (when compared with file size of theinput), it is fairly safe to adopt the grammarco,aslant LssumpfiorL3.
Barton's ReductionLet tm consider the satisfaction reducton in\[Barton86\].
Barton used a grammar like the onebelow to reduce two-.level generation to thesatisfaction problem.In tiffs mtificial grammar, it is assumed that thereare an arbitrary number of harmony processesover the letters: a, b, c, d, e, 1, .... ; each lettermust coirespond to either T (truth) or F(falsehood), consistently throughout he word.~l~is reduction is a generalization of harmonyprocesses which are common in certain familiesof natur',d languages.
In these languages, stem(mad affix) vowels must agree ill one or more ofthe following distinctive features:o Front/back vowels (palatal, velar harmony),eg.
in Uralic and Turcic languages.
(Replacedby consonantal palatalization in Karaite, aTurcic language.
)o Rounded/tmrounded vowels (labial harmony),eg.
in Tttrcic languages.
Tongue height, eg.
Tungusic languages?
Nasalization, ando Phatyngealization eg.
emphatic consonantsand vowels in semitic languagesSome processes are classified as umlaut ratherthan vowel harmonies, but behave similarly.One, still different but relevant process, has beenreported in Takelma (Sapir 1922).
There, asuffixal /a/ is leplaced with an fi/, if thefollowing suffix contains /i\[.
This rule derives\[ikuminininink\] from underlying/ikumanananink/.It may be a mistake to classify all of theseprocesses as vowel harmonies, and if so, it onlystrengthens the claim that languages don't havevery many vowel harmony processes.Barton's Satisfaction GrammarTF , -abcdefNULL0ANY =END"a-consistency (or a-harrnony)"aa=TF=1: 2312: 2023: 0333 3"b-consistency (or b-harmony)"bb=TF=1: 2312: 2023: 0333 3"c-consistency (or c-harmony)"cc  =TF=1: 2312: 2023: 0333 3d,e,f-consistency all follow the same pattem"satisfaction" 3 4TF - ,1.
21302: 22213.
1200Empirically, we observe that generation time islinear with the length of the word andexponential with the number of harmonyprocesses.
That is, given Barton's Satisfactiongrammar, words of the form aaa...* areprocessed in time linear with the number of as,but words for the form abe.., are processed intime exponential with the number of differentcharacters.337Linear withInput  LengthInput  Steps in  Generatio-na 2aa 4aaa 6aaaa 8aaaaa 10Exponent ia l  w i thNumber  of  Harmony ProcessesInput  Steps in Generat iona 2ab 6abc 14abed 30abcde 62abcdef 126Barton showed that generating words in thetwo-level model with n harmony processes canbe reduced to a satisfaction problem with nvariables.
Thus, it is not surprising to find thatthe two-level model takes time exponential withthe number of harmony processes.
I1.
Most harmonies are progressive, ie.
the harmonypropagates from left ~o right.
A few exceptions tothisare mentioned in literature: Sahaptian (inchlding NezPerce), Luorawetlan (including Chuckchee), DlolaFoguy, and Kalenjin languges.
These are said to haveso called dominant and recessive vowels where anocctarrence of a dominant vowel in the stem or even inaffixes causes the whole word to contain onlydominant variants of vowels.
We have found noreferences to languages with more than one harmonyprocess combined with (potentially) regressive, orright-t0-1eft direction.Left-to-right harmony seems to have a virtuallyunlimited scope because, in addition to inflectionalaffixes, also derivational suffixes that can berecursively attached to the stem.Neither progressive nor regressive harnmny-Ilkeprocesses cattse any nondetermlnlsm in recognition ithe Two-Level Model.
Even generation ofword-formswith progressive harmonies is always quitedeterministic.
The only truly nondeterminlsticbehavior with vowel harmonies occurs in thegeneration with regeessive harmonies where there isno way to choose among possible realizations ofprefixvowels until the word root is seen.An artlfical (and almost maximal) example of theunbounded character of Finnish vowel harmony is thefollowing where back harmony propagates from theverbal root (havai- 'observe') all the way to the last3384.
Experience With FinnishHowever, if there are only a fixed (and small)number of harmony processes, as there are inany natural language, then processing time isfound to be linear with input length.
This hasbeen our experience as verified by the followingexperiment.
We collected a word list andmeasured recognition time as a function of wordlength in character.
The word list is acombination of two samples from a Finnishnewspaper corpus (seven issues of HelsinginSanomat consisting of some 400,000 runningwords):?
all Finnish words with 17 or more lette~ inthe whole corpus, plus?
some 700 words of running text from thesame corpus.
(This construction produces very few words with16 characters.
)Figure 1 plots recognition time (in steps) as afunction of word length.
Note that therelationship is well modeled by the linearregression line with a slope of 2.43 steps/letter.The data show no hint of an exponentialrelationship between processing time and wordlength.One of the two outlets is "lakiasiaintoimistoa,"an 18 letter word that takes 206 steps (11.4steps/letter).
Part of the trouble can be attributedto ambiguity; this word happens to be two waysambiguous.
In addition, there is a false path"laki+asia+into+imis..." that consumes evenmore resources.
The fit of the regression linecan be improved considerably by removing theseambiguous words as illustrated in figure 2.5.
ConclusionA disclaimer is in order.
The two-levelclitic particle (over seven derivatlonal, one case endingand a possessive suffix):havai-nTO-Ilis.tU-ttA-mAottOm.UL~t'e-llAonsA.kAAnhavai nno Ills to ttama ttom uude ila nsa kaaofomt:dism does not guarantee efficientimpk'mentations a  such; the formalism may beinappropriate for some problems (such asprocessing an urmatural language with hundredsor thousands of phonological processes).Moreover, the choice of two-level rules andlexk'al replesentations may ak'fect performance.
"lhe ibanalism peimits several styles ofdescription (corresponding rougtfly to abstract,COIloete oF natural phonology, etc).
Some maybe ntore suitable than others for a particularproblem.
More generally, finite state automataa~e r, ot the sohlfion to all problems; they areinadequate for some, and non-optimal for others.~iowe, ver, the two-level model has made asigtfilicant contribution.
It has enabled theconst:cuction of a comprehensive, fficient andcompact morphological recognizer of Finnishwith broad coverage, an important practicalachievement that had not been accomplishedbefon,' the introduction of the two-level model.To tx:lter understand why the two-level model isable to achieve broad coverage of Finnish withmodest computing resources, and where thetwoolcvel model might break down, it isimportant o an,'dyze time and space pedormancevery carefully.
In so doing, certain idealizationswill need to be introduced.
For instance, wehave fomad it helpful to consider recognitiontime as a function of word length.
Otheridealizatiotts are possible.
Barton has discussedgeneration time as a function of the number ofharmony processes, and by implication, thenumber of phonological processes in general.This ~dealization, in our opinion, is not helpful;it confuses the picture by considering a host ofaatific~al languages that bear little resemblence toreality.
Natural languages do not have verymany phonological processes, but they do have acomparatively arge number of words.ReferencesBarton, E., 1986, "Computational Complexity inTwo-I,evel Morphology, in 24th Annual Meetingof :he Association for ComputationalLinguistics.
~'Barton, E., 1987, Berwick, R, and Ristaxl, E.,'"i'he Complexity of Two-Level Morphology,"chapter 5, in Computational Complexity andNatmal Language, MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Karttunen, L., Koskenniemi, K., and Kaplan, R.,1987, "A Compiler for Two-level PhonologicalRules," in Dalrymple, M., Kaplan, R.,Karttunen, L., Koskenniemi, K., Shaio, S., andWescoat, M., "Tools for MorphologicalAnalysis," Report No.
CSLI-87-108, Center forthe Study of Language and Information, StanfordUniversity.Koskenniemi, K., 1983, "Two-LevelMorphology: A General Computational Modelfor Word-Form Recognition and Production,"Publications No.
11, University of Helsinki, Deptof General Linguistics, Hallituskatu 11-33, SF-00100 Helsinki 10, Finland.Sapir, E., 1922, "The Takelma language ofsouthwestern Oregon," in F. Boas (ed.
),"Handbook of American Indian Languages II,"pp.
1-296, BAE Bulletin 40 (II), Washington.Ultan, R., 1973, "Some Reflections on VowelHarmony."
In "Working Papers in LanguageUniversals," Number 12, November 1973, pp.37-67.
(Language Universals Project, Committeeon Linguistics, Stanford University, Stanford,Califomia.
)Vago, R., (ed.
), 1980, Issues in Vowel Harmony.
(Jolm Benjamins, Amsterdam.
)339250All Words20015010050 **** :  I ,!
:**  |I .. I0 5 10 15Word LengthFigure Ii *i* .
.
, .
: ~i , , , ,I20 25 30100Unambiguous Words Only3~4 0Recognitl0n80604020.
.
I .
.}
4 ., I 2 "**, i * *  " / / I *  *0 5 10 15, I?i t l  ,i *" |1~ ?St20 25 30Word LengthFigure 2
