Express ing  quant i f ier  scope in French generat ionPierre-Joseph GAILLY  *Computer Science Depar tment ,  Univers i ty  of Liege, B4000 Li~ge~ BelgiumAbstractIn this paper we propose a new method to express quantifica-tion and especially quantifier scope in French generation.
Ourapproach is based on two points: the identification of the sen-tence components between which quantifier scope can indeedbe expressed and a mechanism to reinforce the expression ofquantifier scope.
This approach is being integrated in a writ-ten French generator , called Hermes, which will become thegenerator of a portable natural anguage interface.1 IntroductionNatural language interfaces are being applied to various ap-plications; most of them, especially data base and expert sys-tem interfaces, require the production of precise texts.
Oneof the key problems of precision is the correct expression ofquantifier type and scope.Our research as led us to identify a new pract ical  method toexpress quantification i a precise and natural way and to im-plement our approach in the portable written French generatorcalled Hermbs (/Gailly 87a/and/Gai l ly  875/) to be integratedin a portable natural anguage interface (/Binot, Gailly & Rib-bens 86/).
The generator's goal is to produce French sentencesfrom a message (a representation of their meaning) expressedin Formula, a representation language based on an extension offirst order predicate calculus.
The main point of our approachis the identification of the importance of properly choosing- thedeterminers in noun phrases in conjunction with the selectionof the surface structure of the sentences produced.
However, wemust stress the fact that we are not trying to provide a theoret-ical and comprehensive study of how quantification is expressedin natural anguage (such as in the work of /Cooper 83/).In the rest of this paper we will first discuss the differencebetween the problems raised by quantification i  parsing andgeneration, then discuss the present approaches to the problemand finally present our own approach.2 The difference between understanding andgenerating quantifier scopeIn understanding, the problem is, starting from the inputsentence, to identify the quantifier scope intended by the user.In presence of an ambiguous entence, the system will use allavailable information (i.e.
syntactic structure, word choice andorder, semantic and pragmatic knowledge, context and dialoghistory) to find the most plausible quantifier order.
Consider:Ex.
1 Un homme meurt tou~ los soirs.
(A man dies all evenings))Ex.
2 Chaquc s:oir un homme meurt.
(Every evening a man dies.
)Although the first example is poorly expressed, a clever un-derstanding system should comprehend both sentences in thesame way, as human beings do, because the interpretation "Thesame man dies every evening."
is nonsensical.
If the verb"mcurt" ("dies") is replaced by "mange chcz Paul" ("eats atPaul's place'), the two sentences have different meanings andthe system should understand them in different ways.
*Research sponsored by the Institut pour l'Encouragement de laRecherche Scientifique d ns PIndustrie t l'Agricultnre (LR.S.I.A.
).1Though we have trie&.to provide afaithful translation of the examples,we have kept he French sentence structure in the English version; thereforethe translation can sometimes prove poor.182In generation, the goal is to express the quantifier scope im-posed by the input message correctly and as clearly as possiblein order to avoid ambiguity.We should not rely on the user's domain knowledge but pro-vide him with clear clues about quantifier scope.
Therefore, weshould never produce unclear sentences such as example 1.3 Existing approaches to the problemFew authors considered the problem of expressing quantifierscope correctly and in a natural way.
Surveys of the field (e.g./Mann 82/or /McKeown 86/) or even workshops proceedings(e.g.
/Appelt 85/) do not mention the problem.
At present,the problem seems to be solved in two ways:* By indenting the text produced, (especially in databasequery reformulation), in order to show the structure ofthe text (scope of quantifiers and propositional connectives)graphically.
Though this method can prove useful in smallscale applications (e.g./De Roeck 8z Lowden 86/and somecommercial systems), in fact it avoids the problem.?
By using word order 2 as suggested by /Chester 76/ and/Grishman 86/.
The surface structure is chosen in such away that the variable bound by the most dominating quan-tifier is generated as tile leftmost noun phrase and so on.The "word order" method is not satisfactory.
Though wordorder is kept unchanged in the following examples, differentscopes are clearly indicated by choosing adequate determiners:Ex.
3 Chaque chien poursuit un chat.
(Each dog is chasing" a cat,)Ex.
4 Tousles chiens poursuiven~ un m~mc cha~.
(A11 dogs are chasing a same cat.
)As far as French is concerned, /Colmerauer 77/ proposeda more extensive treatment of the subject for parsing.
Hisapproach is based on the syntactic function of noun phrases andword order.
Again, this method is not satisfactory: determinerselection allows to express different scopes, keeping word order:and syntactic functions unchanged:Ex.
5 J'ai rcncontrd l'armatcur de chaquc navirc.
(I met the owner of each ship.)Ex.
6 J'ai rcncontrd l'armatcur de tousles navires.
(I met the owner of all ships.
)4 Our approachOur approach is based on an integrated choice of both thesurface structure and the determiners associated with nounphrases.
We believe that scope expression is ruled by the fol-lowing facts:?
A direct s dominance relationship cannot be expressed be-tween any pair of noun phrases occurring in the sentencebut only between oun phrases involved in specific syntacticstructures.o To each of these specific structures can be attached a weakdefault scope rule providing a partial and default orderingof the different noun phrases involved in the structure.?
Adequate determiner selection (through a mechanism wecall scope expression reinforcement) can either override thedefault ordellng given by scope rules or turn the partialordering into a total one if necessary.2This rule was proposed for English.
Examples will show that it is notapplicable, neither in French nor in English.SThat is the scope relationship between two consecutive quantifiers.In the next section we will introduce the principle of scopeexpression reinforcement.
Ttm limits of scope expression willbe considered in section 6.
Section 7 will describe the defaultscope rules and provide examples of the use of these rules aswell as of reinforcement.5 Scope expression reinforcement by deter-miner selectionLet us colmidcr some simple ways of expressing universal andexistential quantifiers.Several determiners express universal quantification.
Thedefinite article "le" or "lea" ("the") weakly express lmiversalquantification.
"Chaque" ("each" or sometimes "every")4 and"tons Its" ("all the") both strongly indicate that all entitiesspecified by the noun phrase participate in the semantic rela-tionship with the element (e.g.
the verb) they depend from.
But"chaque" adds a distributive f atm:e which indicates that thereis a state or action for each entity described in the noun phraseand therefore has the effect of giving a dominant position tothe corresponding mfiversal quantifier.
Using "tons lea" addsa collective ~ feature and does not give this domination effect.Tiffs leaves the possibility for another quantifier to "take" thedominance.Other determiners express existential quantification, such as"un" ("a"), "des ''e and "un m~me" ("a same" or "one") ~ etc.
"On" does not give any domination effect; obviously,"un m~me" indicates that the entity described in the nounphrase and participating to the semantic relationship is thesame for all states or actions described.
This gives dominanceto the corresponding existential quantifier.Let us now consider some examples and evaluate their qualityas generated text:Ex.
7 Chaque homme est dana une piece.
(Each man is in a room.)Ex.
8 Tou.~ lea hommes sont dana une m~me piece.
(All men are in a same zoom.)Ex.
9 Tou.,J Its hommes sont dans une piece.
(Al l  men are in a room.)Ex.
10 Chaquc homme eat dan~ une m~me piece.
(E~,,h man is in a same room.
)Obviously, examples 7 and 8 are clear and unambiguous; theyprovide distinct and adequate xpressions for the two possiblequantifier scopes.
Example 9 is poor.
Most readers understaIgtit as having the same meaning as example 7 but some couldunderstand it as example 8.
Such a sentence is potentiallyambiguous ~.nd generating such a sentence should be avoided.Example 10 is also poor because the dominance indicationsgiven by "chaque" and "an m~me" are contradictory.These examples have shown that the imposed quantifier scopecan be expressed correctly and clearly by reinforcing the expres-sion of the dominating quantifier.6 Limits of scope expressionWe consider that scope can only be expressed between ounphrases which are linked by a direct syntactic relationship.
InFrench, quantifier dominance can only be expressed between:?
the different elements directly linlced to the same verb(subject, direct or indirect object, agent and other com-plements)~4In French, there is only one word "chaque" to express the meaning ofboth English words "each" and "every".5Though the collective f ature added by "tons Its" is weaker then thedistribu$ive ore) added by "chaque".~This is the plural form of the indefinite article; it has no equivalent inEnglish.71n French, ~ve cannot choose between the indefinite article "a" and thenumeral "one" as they are both expressed by'"un".?
the different elements directly linked to the head of a nounphrase~ that is between:- the head and its complements,- the head and the elements directly linked to the mainverb of a relative clause,- the head and the complements of an adjective,?
a main clause and a conjunctive subordinate clause.Our study has shown that these hypotheses on syntactic struc-tures can provide a criterion applicable to the structure of theinput message.
This criterion tmlps us to detect situationswhere dominance cannot be expressed properly in one sentenceand to decide, in the process of generation, to split the messageinto several parts wtfich can be expressed precisely.7 Default scope rules and examplesDefault scope rules indicate how the reader perceives quanti-tier scope whenever no reinforcement is used.
We will proposea default scope rule for each of the syntactic structures givenin section 6.7.1 S imple sentencesThe quantification associated to noun phrases will respect tilefollowing default quantification priority scheme:1. non essential s complements placed before the verb,2.
subject,3.
non essential complements placed between the verb and theessential complements,4.
essential complements,5.
non essential complements placed after the essential ones.This rule bears some resemblance with the "left to right or-der" rule or with Colmerauer's proposal but in fact it is basedmore on semantic onsiderations than syntactic ones.
The usualword position in a French sentence (i.e.
subject, verb, essentialcomplements, non essential complements) reflects tile semanticproximity of these elements with respect o the verb: a nearerposition corresponds to a greater proximity (points 2, 4 and 5of the above rule).
We coz~sider that placing some non essentialcomplement in an unusual position (points 1 and 3) raises iLsimportance with a corresponding raise in its scope priority.Let us also point out that  this rule only provides a partialordering.
For example, if a verb has two essential complements,the rule does not order them.In /Gailly 87b/ we have given an extensive list of exam-ples showing how complex 9 quantification structm'es can beexpressed in a natural way.
We will just quote a few complexexamples taken from the classical suppliers-parts database andrequiring reinforcement:Ex.
11 V aupplier 3 article -3 date V customerDonnez-moi la liate de8 fournisaeurs qui livrent unm~me article h toua lea clients hune m~me date.
(Give me the llst of  all suppliers which deliver a samearticle to all customers at a same date.
)The dominance of "article" and "date" has been reinforcedby the use of "un m~me".Ex.
12 V date 3 article V ~upplier 3 customerDonnez-moi la liate den dates o~ un m~me article adtd livrg par chaque \[ourniaaeur h au moin~ un client.
(Give me the list of  dates when a same article w~delivered by each supplier to at least one customer.
)The dominance of "article" has been expressed by selectinga subject position and by using "an m~me'; the relative dom-inance of "supplier" has been expressed by using "chaque".SEssential complements are those verb complements whose omissionwould make the sentence nonsensical.
For example the verb "slier" ("togo"), in the meaning implying some movement, requires the specificationof the target location.
This semantic notion seems more adequate hanCohnerauer's proposal of "near complements" which is based on the syn-tactic function of the complement.9Involving alternating existential nd universal quantifiers.
Commutingquantifiers obviously do not raise any problem.1837.2 Noun phrasesWe have studied the cases of noun's complements, relativeclauses and complements of an adjective.
The head of thenoun phrase has default dominance on the subordinated nounphrases occurring inside the noun phrase.The scope relationship between the quantifiers associatedwith the noun phrases ubordinated to the head can be treatedby default scope rules similar to the one given for simple sen-tences.
These rules assume that the head dominates and thatthere is no "interleaving" between the quantifier scope insidethe noun phrase and the quantifier scope in the sentence (orclause) containing the noun phrase.We also considered the problem of expressing the dominanceof the quantification associated with one of the subordinatednoun phrases over the quantification associated with the head.This involves an interaction between the quantifiers at the sen-tence level and those at the noun phrase level.
This expres-sion is not always possible (because the default dominance ofthe head appears to be too strong).
This problem can onlybe treated satisfactorily in the case of a "compldmc*nt ddtermi-natif" (equivalent to the use of a genitive or a "oF' construct inEnglish) and of relative clauses.
Reinforcement is necessary forthe quantifier associated with the subordinated noun phrase.The following two examples illustrate this last point.Ex.
13 ~ play V student (Default scope rule)J'ai lu la piece que tous les ~l~ves ont ~critc.
(I ,'cad the play all the students wrote.)Ex.
14 V student 3 play (Universal quantifier einforced)J'ai lu la piece que chaque dl~ve a dcrite.
(I read the play each student wrote.
)7.3 Conjunctive subelausesWe believe that it is not possible to provide a general andreliable default scope rule assigning a priority scheme to thedifferent noun phrases appearing in the main clause and in theconjunctive subclanse(s).
Anyhow, two cases can be treatedsatisfactorily:1. if one of the clauses does not contain any quantification orif all the quantified noun phrases involved appear in thesame clause (either explicitly or repeated in the form of apronoun) then the simple sentence approach can be applied.2.
if the sentence contains only two quantifiers, then reinforce-ment of the dominating quantifier can be used.8 Conc lus ionsWe have shown how quantification scope can be expressedin a natural and precise way in French generation.
We haveinsisted on two important aspects: selecting sentence structureand determiners.
We have also shown some limitations of natu-ral language xpression of quantifier scope.
In some cases input:nessage restructuring can solve the problem but in others wereach the intrinsic limits of natural anguage.The methodology we propose is, at the time of writing, beingimplemented in the French generator HermSs.
Further detail onour method (including a discussion of the interaction of quan-tifier scope with negation) can be found in /Gai l ly  88/.As further conclusions we will now consider two possible ex-tensions to our approach and a possible application to under-standing:?
Application to other languages.
We have not studied thisproblem in detail but we are convinced that correct quan-tifier scope expression for other languages will have to con-sider both the influence of sentence structure and of de-terminer choice.
The set of default scope rules will haveto be adapted to account for the syntax of the language.The reinforcement mechanism will have to incorporate thedeterminers available in the particular language.?
Application to domains where a precise expression is notrequired.
In our approach we provide obvious indicationsof quantifier scope; this leads to a precise style compatiblewith the target applications.
In other domains, a weakerexpression might be required, that is reinforcement shouldnot be used whenever the quantifier scope is obvious fromthe context.
Our method could still be used but the re-inforcement mechanism would only be invoked wheneverthe lack of reinforcement would produce an ambiguous en-fence, This kind of decision would be taken by an expertmodule using pragmatic knowledge as well as a completedomain and discourse model.?
Use of our heuristics in scoping algorithms for parsing.
Thealgorithm proposed by/Hobbs & Shieber 87/, for example,produces all possible scopings consistent with the logicalstructure of English.
As the authors uggest, this algorithmcan be extended in order to produce scopings in decreas-ing order of plausibility: our default scope rules could beused as syntactic and order rules.
Our observation of thedominating effect of some determiners could also be usedas lexical rules but the authors consider that lexical rulesare difficult to integrate in their algorithm.9 AcknowledgmentsWe should like to thank Jean-Louis Binot, Lisiane Goffauxand Danny Ribbens for fruitful discussions and reading draftsof this paper as well as the anonymous referees for their com-ments.
Of course, we assume full responsibility for all errorsand deficiencies.
We also acknowledge the financial support ofthe I.R.S.I.A.
(contracts 4465 and 4856).ReferencesD.
E. Appelt 85 "Proceedings of the 1984 international workshopon language generation.
", C.S.L.I.
Report, 1985.J.-1.
Binot, P.-J.
Gailly & D. T. Ribbens 86 "Elements d'uneinterface portable et robuste pour le fran~ais ~crit", Proc.
of the"Huiti~mes Journ~es I~ancophones de l'Informatique", Grenoble,Jan.
1986.D.
Chester 76 "The translation of formal proofs into English",Artificial Intelligence, Vol 7, pp 261-278, 1976A.
Colmerauer 77 "Un sous-ensemble int&ressant du franqais",Rapport 363, Groupe d'intelligence artificielle, Universit~d'Aix-Marseilles II, 1977A.
Cooper 83 "Quantification and syntactic theory", D. ReidelPublishing Company, 1983.A.
N. De ttoeck 8z B. G. T. Lowden 86 "Generating Englishparaphrases from formal relational calculus expressions", Proc.
ofCOLING 86, pp.581-583, 1986.P.-J.
Gailly 87a "Une premi6re t succincte prdsentation du sys-t~me de g6n~ration du fran~ais Herm6s", University of Li6ge, Com-puter Science Department, Internal report, Jan. 1987.P.-J.
Gailly 87b "Le syst~me de g6n6ration du fran~ais Hermes,Objectifs, Probl6mes et Principes", University of Liege, ComputerScience Department, Working report, July 1987.P.-J.
Gailly 88 "Herm6s: Un g6n6rateur portable du fran~ais ~crit"University of Liege, Computer Science Department, In preparation.It, Gr ishman 86 "Computationallinguistics",CambridgeUniver-sity Press, 1986J.
R. Hobbs 8z S. M, Shieber 87 "An algorithm for generatingquantifier scopes", Computational Linguistics, Vol.13, ppA7-63, 1987K.
R. McKeown 86 "Language generation: applications, issuesand approaches", Proc.
of I.E.E.E., Vol.74, No.7, July 1986W.
C. Mann 82 "Text generation, Panel report", A.J.C.L., Vol.8,No.2, April 1982184
