Styl ist ic Grammars  in Language Translat ionChrysanne  D iMARCO and  Graeme H IRSTDepar tment  of Computer  Sc ienceUn ivers i ty  of TorontoToronto ,  Canada  M5S 1A4Abst rac tWe are developing stylistic grammars to providethe basis for a French and English stylistic parser.Our stylistic grammar is a branching stratificationalmodel, built upon a foundation dealing with lexical,syntactic, and semantic stylistic realizations.
Its cen-tral level uses a vocabulary of constituent stylisticelements common to both English and French, whilethe top level correlates stylistic goals, such as clarityand concreteness, with patterns of these elements.Overall, we are implementing a computationalschema of stylistics in French-to-English translation.We believe that the incorporation ofstylistic analysisinto machine translation systems will significantly re-duce the current reliance on human post-editing andimprove the quality of the systems' output.1 Introduct ionCurrent machine translation (MT) systems deal only su-perficially, if at all, with the translation of style.
At best,MT output is syntactically correct but strictly neutral intone.
The expressive ffects contained in the source text,together with the associated meaning, are lost.The translation of style involves two complementaryand sometimes conflicting aims:?
Producing a style appropriate to the particular targetlanguage, while?
Preserving the original author's tylistic intent.These aims require an understanding of the internal stylis-tics of both the source and target languages as well as thecomparative stylistics of the language pair.Our focus is the development of stylistic grammarsthat will provide the basis for an English and French stylis-tic parser.
The ultimate aim is the design and implemen-tation of a computational schema of stylistics in French toEnglish translation that will act as a post-editor to modifythe output of a basic MT system to achieve the above-menti6ned complementary aims.We believe that MT is an excellent vehicle for researchinto stylistics and that the incorporation of stylistic anal-ysis into MT systems will significantly reduce the currentreliance on human post-editing and will improve the qual-ity of the system output.2 A Def in i t ion of  Style forMach ine  Translat ionOur approach to a definition of style is non-literary, group-based, and, most important, goal-directed.
A "group-based" approach emphasizes the stylistic standards haredby a body of writers, rather than the characteristics ofan individual author.
Examples of group styles can befound in newspaper eporting or scientific writing.
By"goal-directed', we mean that we seek to explicitly cor-relate specific goals of style such as clarity, informality, orabstraction with particular syntactic structures and lexicalchoices.Why focus on group.based style?
For MT, where weexpect o deal with large amounts of similar types of text,the analysis of group style is of more interest han the id-iosyncratic style of any one writer.
However, group stylecan be subdivided into two major types, literary and func-tional (or pragmatic).
Analysing literary group style, as ina work of fiction, for example, is too ambitious a task forMT.
Functional group styles, on the other hand, are cor-related with particular types of situations and are a morerealistic objective.To fulfill both of the complementary aims, we requirea view of style that is goal-directed.
A recent examplewith this view of stylistics is the PAULINE system describedin Hovy \[1987\].
PAULINE generates text that conforms togiven pragmatic and stylistic constraints; the system isgoal-directed, able to correlate such stylistic goals as for-mallty, simplicity, and respect with the characteristics ofthe text produced.In French-to-English translation, as an example, wemust account for the fact that French is generally moreabstract, static, and precise while English tends to be con-crete, dynamic, and more lenient owards vagueness (Vinayand Darbelnet \[1958\]).
For the same text, therefore, theFrench source language may express an abstract style whilethe English target language must be more c~ncrete i n itslexical and syntactic hoices.
If we are to properly trans-late from French style to English stylel then we mus~ un-derstand how syntactic structures and' lextcal choices cor-relate with particular stylistic goals or aspects, such asabstraction, concreteness, statieness, and' dynamism.1483 A Computat iona l  Schema ofStylistics in TranslationWe haw; restricted our interest in style for MT purposesto concerns ~hat are pragmatic, group-based, and goal-directed.
The next question iq: how is this restricted efi-nition to be reflected in a computationM schema of stylis-tics in machine translation?
The schema that we propose isoutlined in Figure 1.
The process of stylistic translation islanguage--independent but l~'ench-to-English translation isthe particular instantiation that we have studied in detailand from which we will give examples.In the first stage of the process, French internal stylis-tics is considered.
For each stylistic translation unit, i.e.,the current section o?
text within which the style rcmainsconstant, in the French source text, we determine its stylis-tic contempt, i.e., a correlation of lexicai choices and syntac.-tic structures with a particular stylistic goal and a partic-ular styli.
'*tic intensity.In the second stage, we use knowledge of French-English comparative stylistics.
For each stylistic transla-tion unit in the French source text, given its stylistic con--text, we detor,nine the appropriate English stylistic goalcorrespohding to the possibly different French style.
De-fault rules of comparative stylistics are uscd but these canbe broken if the situation warrants.The third and final stage requires an understandingof English internal stylistics.
For each stylistic translationunit in the unedited English translation, we edit lexicaichoices mid syntactic structures to achieve an appropriatestyle that corresponds to the French source style, but isgood English style as well.The main feature of the schema is that the translationof style, according to our definition, requires three distinctbodies ot!
stylistic knowledge: laYench internal stylistics,French-:E;nglish comparative stylistics, and English inter-nat stylistics.
The internal stylistics of a language tellsus how to choose syntactic structures and lexical items toexpress a particular aspect of style, such as clarity or econ-omy.
From comparative stylistics, we gain an understand-ing of when the target text should express a different stylefrom the source text and when the styles should remainthe same.The need for three kinds of stylistic knowledge maynot initially appear obvious.
Why not just edit the outputof a MT system to remove awkward syntax and achieve amore natural flow of words?
The answer is that to pre-serve the author's tylistic intent, while meeting the stylis-tic demands of the target l~aguage, we must determinethe author's pecific stylistic goals and consider how thesedifferent aspects can be realized syntactically and lexicallyin the tin'get language.
Thus, we must analyse the origi-nal source text to make certain we understand the sourcelanguage style before trying to translate.To implement the computational schema of stylisticsin translation shown in Figure 1, knowledge about stylisticsmust be ~,.ccumulated, created, and organized into a formalrepresentation.Our first task was the creation of a vocabulary of En-glish stylistics.
The definition of concepts and the attemptto orgaafize them into a recognizable structure were nec-essary to understanding the problem of translating style.The development of the vocabulary proceeded in tandemwith the collection and creation of stylistic rules.A further complication in the codification of French,English~ and comparative stylistics is the need to build dif-ferentiNets of rules for lexieal choice, syntactic structure,and semantic structure.
This knowledge goes to make upstylistic grammars - -  formal representations of the stylisticrules.
These grammars provide a systematic description ofthe lexicai, syntactic, and semmltic patterns that differen-tiate the various stylistic goals.With these format bodies of rules to analyse the orig-inal source and uncdited target texts, the strategy tobe used by a French and English stylistic parser can beplanned.
Ultimately, M1 components will be integrated ina post-editor that will accomplish the actual translation ofstyle.4 Stylistic GrammarsAs a first step towards constructing a grammar of style,we defined the basic vocabulm-y shown in Table 1.The naive approach towards structm'il~g an extendedvocabulary of stylistics would be to organize terms by syntactic category.
For example, the concepts of detached ad-jccti'val clause, piled-up adje.ctives, and adjectival phr~,~eare all .significant in stylistics.
However, not all terms'; as-sociated with the same syntactic ategory necessarily shat'ethe same stylistic significance.We have therefore taken a more stylistically relevantapproach by introducing stylistic elements, which provideboth a re.cans of structuring the vocabulary and a link bc.-tween these vocalmlary terms and stylistic goals.
Further-more, a single vocabulary of stylistic elements will be usedto describe lexical, syntactic, and semantic realizations.Style, we believe, is achieved through the effects inher-ent in individual components (absolute shape), the effectscreated by the absolute position of components (whether,for example, the component is initial, medial, or final), andby relationships (relative shape) between the eomponent~of a stylistic constituent.
These relationships fall into atleast two basic types: balance and harmony, including theconcordant and discordant elements in a constituent, anddominance, the number of central shapes in a constituent.Each type of relationship is expressed by stylistic el-ements.
Table 2 shows samples.
All the stylistic elementsthat we have defined, about twenty, have been recognizedin our sample English data.
Given these elements, we havea means of organizing the terms in our stylistic vocabulary:each term is associated with one or more stylistic elementsof the w~rious types.149UneditedOriginal ~- Poor-qualityFrench source text English target translationFre~nch \] ,French ~ E .ng-~internal ~ comparative ~---~ internal \]stylistics \] \[ stylistics \] \[ stylist_ics., lFIRST STAGE SECOND STAGE THIRD STAGEFigure h A Computational Schema of Stylistics in Machine TranslationStylistic constituent: A passage of text, associated with a particular stylistic goal,within which the style remains constant, e.g., a sentence or paragraph.Stylistic component: A part of a stylistic constituent, e.g., a phrase or clause.Stylistic shape: A stylistic component usually regarded as stylistically expressive, .i.e., having a particular stylistic effect.Stylistic texture: A stylistic constituent with an overall stylistic effect,formed by particular types of relationships between its individual shapes.Stylistic equivalence class: A set of stylistic constructions having the same type of stylistic shape.Interval: The stylistic distance or difference between any two shapes in a stylistic constituent.Modulation: A shift within a stylistic constituent from one type of stylistic effect, e.g., concord,to another, e.g., discord.Table h Basic Vocabulary of StyleMonopoise: A syntactically complete stylistic texture with no disturbance in canonical order.Counterpoise: A stylistic texture containing an offset, a shape which perturbs the stylistic balanceby disturbing the canonical order.Homopoise: A counterpoise in which the offset supports the overall stylistic balance.Polypoise: A counterpoise in which the offset opposes the overall stylistic balance.\[ Concord:Discord:Cycle:Imitation:Resolution:Dissolution:Aschematic:Monoschematic:Diaschematic:Polyschematie:A stylistic shape expressing a unity of style,agreement, accord, stability, and not requiring resolution.A modulation with a narrow interva~tween two shapes, each expressing consonance__A stylistic shape expressing a disunity of style,disagreement, contention, conflict, incongruity, and requiring resolution.A modulation with a wide interval.A stylistic texture in which the initial and terminal shapes belong tothe same stylistic equivalence class.A stylistic texture in which two or more successive shapes belong tothe same equivalence class.A terminal modulation which moves from a stylistic discord to a relative concord.A terminal modulation which moves from a stylistic concord to a relative discord.A stylistic constituent having a stylistic shape but syntactically incomplete.A stylistic constituent with a single dominant shape andno accompanying subordinate shapes.A stylistic constituent in which the components are organized arounda single dominant shape.A stylistic constituent organized around two or more dominant shapes.Table 2: Examples of Stylistic Elements150Now, for our goal-directed stylistic grammar, we pro-pose a branching stratifieationM modeh As the foundation,we have three branches: lexieal, syntactic, and semanticstylistic grammars, each with its own vocabulary of stylis-tic shapes and rules relating its type of shapes.At the central level, we use a single vocabulary ofconstituent elements of style, as in Table 2, to build rulesrelating these elements to patterns of lexical, syntactic,and semantic stylistic shapes.
This level is the unifyingcore of the overM1 stylistic grammar for we believe thatpeople also use the same principles, the same constituentelements, to express tyle both in English and French.Finally, at the top level, we construct rules to correlateindividual stylistic goals with patterns of stylistic elements.Together, these levels form a language-independent goal-directed stylistic grammar for language translation.4.1 A Syntactic Stylistic GrammarFor each of the branches in our goM-directed stylistic gram-mar, we must define a vocabulary of stylistic shapes andrules for putting these shapes together, ttowcver, a "stylis-tic shape" wil\[ be defined differently for tile lexical, syn-tactic, and semantic branches.For the ,;yntactic stylistic grammar, we have builta catalogue of sentence components (syntactic stylisticshapes) organized into equivalence classes by stylistic ef-fect, a quality inherent in a component which makes it astylistic shape.
But what, in syntactic terms, gives eachcomponent a particular stylistic effect?
How should wedefine "stylistic shape" at the syntactic level?We have adapted Quirk and Greenbamn's \[1979\] useof syntactic integration as the basis for our definition ofsyntactic stylistic shape.
They catalogue most adverbials,some prepositional phrases, and some clauses as either ad-junct, conjunct, or disjunct deI)ending on tile degree ofinherent integration.
We have chosen to base the syntacticstylistic effect of all sentence components on their charac--teristic integration.
We have therefore xpanded the cata-logue to define a syntactic stylistic vocabulary classifyingcomponents as either adjunct (strongly integrating), con-junct (less integrating, but still having a connective ffect),disjunct (neutral), or "antijunct" (having a disconnectiveeffect).We then adopted Crystal and Davy's \[1969\] "stylis-tic" grammar as the foundation for our syntactic stylisticgrammar.
Their grammar is built upon a vocabulary ofstylistically significant syntactic omponents.
It also rec-ognizes the role of pre- and post-modification i stylisticeffects, a feature we have expanded in our grammar, a po>tion of which is shown in Table 3.Now, having a base syntactic stylistic grammar whichbuilds sentences out of syntactic stylistic shapes definedby their characteristic integrating effect,, we can c.onstruct,at the next level, a grammar which relates constituent ebements of style to patterns of syntactic stylistic shapes.Syntactic exmnples for this level are given in Table 4.Resolution - -~(Initial Discord) +, (Medial Discord) + , Final ConcordDissolution ----4Initial q- Medial Concord, Final DiscordInitial q- Medial Concord --+Diasehematic ...
(i.e., diaschcmatic for someinitial portion)Final Concord ---+ ... DiaschcmaticInitial Discord - -~Discordant Major, (Dependent clause)* t(Discordant dependent clause) + , Major,(Dependent clause)*Medial Counterpoise ---~(VOC), Co,mterpoisal S, P, (C), (A) +Medial Discord IS-A Medial Counterpoise withCounterpoisal S = Discordant Counterpoisal SFinal Discord --~ ... Discordant MajorDiaschematie ---+ Simple Concordant SentenceCycle ---+x +, Major, y+where x and y are instances of Dependent clausesand are in the same stylistic equivalence class.Table 4: Sample Constituent Element Stylistic GrammarClarity -~  Diaschematic I ResolutionClarity not - -*  Initial Discord + Medial DiscordConcreteness ---* Aschcmati(: I Medial Counterpoise IDissolution I CycleTable 5: Sample Grammar of Stylistic GoalsAnd, finally, at tile top level, we define rules which <:orrelate stylistic goals with patterns of constituent eh'ments.Syntactic clarity and syntactic (mcreteness, for example,are correlated positively and negatively with tile stylisticelements hown in Table 5.Taken together, tables 3, 4 and 5 provide a portionof our goal-directed stylistic grammar for English internalstylistics.The use of this grammar can be illustrated by theanalysis of the following two samt)le sentences: they arcdiaschematic and thus express clarity.
Tiffs first examph,illustrates imitative dependent clauses: This painter didhis beat to adjust to the tastes of the day, softening his lineand painting gracefully, converting to sfumato and castingabout for art-lovers even as far away as in Spanish Amer-ica \[Manchester Guardian, February 14, 1988, p.15\].
And,in this example, we see imitative postnmdification: Silvia,a commanding woman in her 50's, a shrew falsely mel-lowed by religion, promptly organiaed prayer sessions onthe lines of Tupperware meetings \[adapted from Manch-151Sentence - -*  Complete \] Incomplete*Simple Concordant Sentence IS-A Sentence with only Complete = Simple Concordant CompleteComplete ~ (Dependent clause)*, Major, (Dependent clause)* I MinorSimple Concordant Complete ~ Simple Concordant Major, (Concordant dependent clause)*Major ~ (Conjunction)*, (A)*, (C), (VOC), S, P, (C), (A) +Simple Concordant Major --~(Conjunction)*, Simple Concordant S, P, (Simple Concordant C), (Concordant A)Discordant Major(Conjunction)*, (Discordant A) + , (C), (VOC), S, P, (C), (A) +(Conjunction)*, (A)*, (C), (VOC), (AuxVerb) + , (C), S, P, (C), (A) +(Conjunction)*, (A)*, (C), (VOC), P, S, (C), (A) +Discordant A ~ Disjunct or Antijunct adverb I Disjunct or Antijunct adverbial construction IDisjunct or Antijunct dependent \[adverbial\] clauseS ~ Nominal group I Pronoun I Dependent \[noun\] clauseSimple Concordant S IS-A S with only ((Nominal group --- Simple Concordant Nominal group) I Pronoun)Counterpoisal S IS-A S with only Nominal group = Counterpoisal Nominal groupDiscordant Counterpoisal S IS-A Counterpoisal S withNominal group = Discordant Counterpoisal Nominal groupNominal group ~ (Premodificationa) Noun (Postmodification)* I PronounSimple Concordant Nominal group IS-A Nominal group with(Premodificationn --=Simple Concordant Premodificationn) and(Postmodification = (Simple Concordant Postmodification)Counterpoisal Nominal group IS-A Nominal group withPostmodification = (Counterpoisal Postmodification) +Discordant Counterpoisal Nominal group IS-A Counterpoisal Nominal group withPostmodification = (Discordant Counterpoisal Postmodification) +Simple Concordant Premodification IS-A Premodification with only Adjunct or Conjunct PremodificationPostmodification~Adjunct Postmodificationn --~ Dependent \[relative\] clause \] Nominal relative clause IAdjunct dependent \[adverbial\] clauseConjunct Postmodificationn --4 Non-finite construction I Conjunct dependent \[adverbial\] clause INominal "that" clause I Preposition* + Nominal groupDisjunct Postmodificationn ----* Verbless clause \[ Disjunct dependent \[adverbial\] clauseAntijunct Postmodificationn ~ AdjectiveSimple Concordant Postmodification --~Adjunct or Conjunct Postmodification (Imitative Postmodification) \] Imitative PostmodificationImitative Postmodificationx, (Conjunction), y, (Conjunction), (z) where z, y, z are instances of Postmodification a dare not instances of Antijunct Postmodification a d arc in the same stylistic equivalence class.Counterpoisal Postmodification IS-A Postmodification with all e~ccptConjunct Postmodification # Preposition* + Nominal groupDiscordant Counterpoisal Postmodification IS-A Counterpoisal Postmodification with onlyAntijunct PostmodificationConcordant dependent clause ~ Adjunct or Conjunct dependent clause \] Imitative dependent clausesDiscordant dependent clause ~ Disjunct dependent clause \] Antijunct dependent clauseAdjunct dependent \[adverbial\] clause --~time-adverbial-clause ~ time-adverb, Majorplace-adverbial-clause --~ place-adverb, Majorpurpose-adverbial-clause ---* purpose-adverb, Majortime-adverb ---* since, usually, before, after, until, when, .
.
.place-adverb ~ where, wherever, .
.
.?
purpose-adverb ~ in order to, so as to, .
.
.Table 3: Sample Syntactic Stylistic Grammar with Modified Crystal and Davy Notation152ester Guardian, February 7, 1988, p.16\].
Note that ourstylistic grammar also gives patterns of stylistic elementswhich tend to oppose a certain stylistic goal.
For example,an initial discord, a disjunct dependent \[non-finite\] clause,followed by a medial discord, an antijunct postmodifica-tion, a postposed adjective, tends to suppress clarity in thefollowing .~entence: To illustrate the benefits of assertive-ness, politicians, eloquent, capture our interest.In these next two sentences, we see an effect of syn-tactic concreteness, an attempt o express the immediacyof the world in the syntactic structure.
The first sentencecontains a medial counterpoise: Now demons, whateverelse they may be \[nominal relative clause\], are full of inter-est.
The second example contains a dissolution: And therain descended \[simple concordant major\] and the floodscame, and the winds blew, and beat upon the house; andit fell: \[concordant dependent clause due to the imitation\]and great was the fall of it \[discordant major due to theinversion of the subject and predicate\] \[Matthew, 7:27\].We can now begin to see how our vocabulary of con-stituent elements~ the central evel of our stylistic gram-mar, will apply to the development of a semantic stylisticgrammar.
In the following two sentences, for example, wesee seman~,ie counterpoise, the main idea interrupted by asecondary one: The university attended by the Prime Min-ister, one of the finest law schools in the country, is thealma mater of many prominent politicians.
Compare thiswith: The university attended by the Prime Minister, aset of buildings with the architectural charm of a prison, isthe alma mater of many prominent politicians.
In the firstcase, the offset supports the main idea so that there is anoverall effect of stylistic concord but, in the second exam-ple, the intruding phrase is semantically and stylisticallydiscordant,In more subtle ways, we can correlate stylistic ele-ments with patterns of semantic structure.
In the follow-ing sentences, note the difference in order of componentsbetween 11 a regardg dans le jardin par la porte ouverteand its English translation, He gazed out of the open doorinto the garden.
In French, the result comes first, thenthe means, while English follows the order of the images,like a film of the action \[Vinay and Darbelnet 1958\].
Wewould say that that are three types of semantic stylisticshapes composing the sentence: he gazed, out of the opendoor, and into the garden.
In the English sentence, themodulations between shapes seem small, so that there isa gradual unfolding of images, an effect of concreteness,while the French structure contains a pattern of modula-tions characteristic of abstraction.So far, we have put forward stylistic grammars as theformal representation f English and French internal stylis-tics.
This approach as led us to organize a stylistic vocab-ulary describing sentence components in terms of stylisticshapes and then to define rules relating stylistic elementsto patterns of these shapes.
The next step, associatingstylistic goMs with stylistic elements allows us, in effect, tocorrelate syntactic structures with these goals.With an explicit correlation between syntactic gram-mar rules, stylistic grammar ules, and stylistic goals, wecan now propose a strategy :for the English and Frenchstylistic parser that we will construct.
The syntactic rulesdo the driving but partial stylistic decisions can affect thedirection of the syntactic parse.
That is, once a stylis-tic rule has been partially recognized, we can narrow thesearch space for constructs to complete the rule.
As thesyntactic rules analyse sequences of syntactic structures,these structures can then be recognized as sequences ofstylistic elements, the components of stylistic rules.
Intandem, the stylistic rules will pick up a sequence of stylis-tic elements mid associate it with a stylistic goal.
The ideaof tandem rules in language analysis is developed by Hirst\[1987\].
This approach to integrating syntax and semanticshas been adapted to syntax and stylistics.5 SummaryOur recent work has been the construction of a goal-directed stylistic grammar for English internal stylistics.Our current focus is an extension of the grammar forFrench internal stylistics.
As well, we arc using a singlevocabulary of constituent stylistic elements as the guidingprinciple in the development of a semantic stylistic gram-mar, the second branch of our stratificational model.Our use of stylistic gramraars has allowcd us to pro-pose a strategy for the French and English stylistic parserwhich will eventually form part of an editor to accomplishthe actuM translation of style.AcknowledgementsFor discussion, helpful ideas, and comments on earlier drafts~we are grateful to Brian Fitch, Diane Horton, and Eduard Itovy.This work was supported in part by a grant o the second authorby the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council ofCanada.References\[1\] Crystal, David and Davy, Derek.
Investigating EnglishStyle.
Longmans, Green and Co. Limited, 1969.\[2\] Hirst, Graeme.
Semantic interpretation and the resolutionof ambiguity (Studies in natural language processing).
Cam-bridge University Press, 1987.\[3\] Hovy, Eduard Hendrik.
Gene'rating Natural Language Un~der Pragmatic Constraints.
PhD thesis, Department ofComputer Science, Yale University, March 1987.\[4\] Quirk, Randolph, and Greenbaum, Sidney.
A UniversityGrammar of English, Longman Group Limited, 1979.\[5\] Vinay, J.-P. and Darbelnet, J. Stylistique comparde dufran~ais et de l'anglais.
Didier, Paris, 1958.153
