Semant ic  In terpreta t ion  of Pragmatic Clues :Connectives, Modal Verbs, and Indirect Speech ActsMichael GERLACH, Michael SPRENGERUniversity of HamburgDepartment of Computer Science, Project WISBER, P.O.
Box 302762Jungiusstrasse 6, I)-2000 Hamburg 36, West GermanyAbstractMuch work in current research in the field of semantic -pragmatic analysis has been concerned with the interpre-tation of natural anguage utterances in the context ofdialogs.
In this paper, however, we will present methodsfor a primary pragmatic analysis of single utterances.
Ourinvestigations involve problems which are not currentlywell understood, for example how to infer the speaker'sintentions by using interpretation of connectives andmodal verbs.This work k,; part of the joint project WlSBER which issupported by the German Federal Ministery for Researchand Technology.
The partners in the project are: NixdorfComputer AG, SCS GmbH, Siemens AG, the University ofHamburg and the University of Saarbrticken.IntroductionMuch work in current research in the field of semantic -pragmatic analysis has been concerned with the inter-pretation of ~Latural language utterances in the context ofdialogs, e.g., determining the speaker's goals \[Allen 83\],deriving beliefs of one agent about another \[Wilks/Bien83\], and planning speech acts \[Appelt 85\].
In this paper,however, we will present methods for a primary pragmaticanalysis of ,~Jingle utterances to construct user modelentries which are the starting point for the higher levelinference processes just mentioned.
Our investigationsinvolve problems which are not currently well understood,for example, how to infer the speaker's intentions by usinginterpretation f connectives and modal verbs.Our work is a part of the natural anguage consultationsystem WISllER \[Bergmann/Gerlach 87\].
Consultationdialogs require a much wider class of utterances to beunderstood than other applications (e.g., for data baseinterface).
In advisory dialogs wants and beliefs play acentral role.
Although a consultation system must becapable of handling the linguistic means which are usedfor expressing those attitudes, problems of how to treatmodal verbs have received little attention in artificialintelligence and computational linguistics.The interpretation processes described in this paper workwith our aemantic representation !anguage IRS \[Berg-mann et.
al.
87\] and generate ntries for the user modelRepresentations of utterances in IRS still contain uninterpreted linguistic features uch as modal verbs, modalhedges, connectives, and tense information.
We are presenting methods for deriving the meaning of these featuresas they occur in utterances: transforming idiomatically-used indirect speech acts, interpreting connectives incompound sentences, and resolving ambiguities in themeaning of modal verbs by using, i.a., temporalrestrictions.
The last chapter sketches the technical meansused by these processes, i.e., the semantic representationlanguage, the way rules are encoded, and the asscrtionalknowledge base containing the user model.Fig.
1 shows the different stages of the interpretationprocess.
First, if a connective is found, the analysis processbreaks up the sentence into separate propositions, in thenext step idomatically-used indirect speech acts aretransformed into a direct question.
The propositions arethen interpreted independently during the modal verbanalysis which creates one or more propositional ttitudesfor each proposition.
These interpretations arc thenrelated, depending on the natural anguage connective.Finally, after inferring the appropriate time intervalsfrom verb tense, the sentence type is used to derive thepropositional ttitudes which are entered into the usermodel.T rans format ion  of Id iomat ica l ly -Used Ind i rec tSpeech ActsSpeakers often use indirect speech acts because they wantto express politeness or uncertainty.
Examples are : "Couldyou please tell me which bonds have the highest interestrate?
", "i'd like to know which...", "I do not know which...."We believe that for appropriately handling such anidiomatic use of indirect speech acts in a consultationsystem it is admissible to transform such utterances into asimplified form - the corresponding direct quest;~n.Therefore the first step in our semantic-pragmatic inter-pretation is mapping the different ways of askingquestions onto one standard form which is the formalrepresentation f the equivalent direct question.Fig.
2 shows the ru~e which applies to the idiom "I do notknow whether X."
and transforms it into the representation of the direct speech act "X ?"
The rule formalism willbe described in detail ater.191S~act ic /Semant ic  R e p r e ~\[Breaking up ConnectivesTransformation of Idiomsl nterpretat ion2f  Modal Verbs itionAssert ional Knowledge BaseMUTUAL KNOWLEDGEUserWants \] User Beliefs \] J'i \] FactsFig.
!
: The stages of the interpretation processDurin$" that transformation process we do not loose anyinformation which might be relevant to the dialog controlcomponent of the system (not described in this paper).Before answering any question - direct or indirect - thesystem has to check whether it is able to answer thatquestion.
If this is not the ease the user must be informedabout the limitations of the system's competence, anyway.This argumentation is similar to that of \[Ellman 83\], whoargues that it is not relevant whether an utterance is arequest or an inform as long as the hearer can detect hespeaker's superordinate goals.
(AND (ASSERTION ?A)(HAS-AGENT ?A USER)(HAS-PROP ?A ?P)(PROP ?P(NOT(AND (KNOW ?K)(HAS-EXPERIENCER ?K USER)(HAS-OBJECT ?K ?X)))))(AND (QUESTION ?O)(HAS-AGENT ?O USER)(HAS-OBJECT ?0 ?X))LFig.
2: A rule for transformlng tho~idic~m:'7 do not know X.
"102 'The transformation of indirect speech acts works on thesemantic level by applying rules which specify formaltransformations of semantic representations of sentences.In this our approach differs from that taken in UC\[Wilensky et.
al.
84 and ZernikfDyer 85\] where a phrasallexicon is used and the semantic interpretation f idioms isdone during the parsing process.Interpretat ion of Modal VerbsAn adequate treatment of modal verbs is necessary fordetermining the attitudes of the speaker concerning thestate of affairs expressed by the proposition he is assert-ing.
1) The main problem in interpreting modal verbs istheir typical ambiguity, e.g.,(1) Mein Sohn sod viel Geld haben.In English the two readings are:'My son is supposed to have a lot of money.'VS.
'I want my son to have a lot of money.
'Our rules for disambiguating the different readings arebased on information which is stored in the semanticrepresentation of the utterance: information aboutsemantic ategories of the subject of the modal verb (e.g.,ANIMATE, GENERIC, DEFINIT\]O, the relation between thetime expressed by the modal verb and the time of the pro-position and whether the proposition denotes a state or anevent.
(2) Ich habe 10000 Mark geerbt und m6chte das Geld ir~Wertpapieren anlegem Sic sollen eine Laufzeit yonvier Jahren haben.
'I have inherited 10000 Marks and would like toinvest he money in securities.
'Two readings of the second sentence:"they are supposed to have a term of fbur yea,'s.
'VS.Whey should have a term of four years.
'In the first reading of the second sentence the entry for theuser model must contain the proposition embedded in abelief context, while the second reading must lead to anentry under speaker's wants.
In order to resolve thisambiguity, the rules compare the time of the propositionwith the tense of the modal verb.
For example, if the tenseof the modal verb is present and the time of the propositionis sometime in the future, the system decides that the"want" reading is appropriate.
The problem in our exampleis to determine the time of the proposition: We have onlythe information of tense haben (to have) which is a presentinfinitive and might also denote a future state.
Hence thesystem tries to final out whether the object of the propo-sition appears in a Want context of the speaker.
This is thecase as is clear from the previous utterance ... and I wan$ toinvest the money in securities and therefore the ~y~temdecides to put the propesition of the ~c~nd sent~t~e intothe user's want  ~ontext as well.
(Even if the secondutterance is taken to be a belief of the ~peaker, the factthat it is cited in this context is sufficient to infer that it isalso a want, why else should the speaker cite this fact inconnection with his decision to invest in securities?
)1) For the semantics of English modal verbs, which isquite different from the German, see \[Boyd/Thorne 69\].For German modal verbs see \[Brttnner/Redder 83\],\[Rei~wvin 77\], \[Spr~nge r 88\].Usually the user's questions are interpreted as user wantsto knowp (or more formally: (WANT USER (KNOW USER P))),where ~ th;notes the propositional content of the question.For example,(3) K0nnen Pfandbriefe mehr als 7% Rendite haben?
'C~n bonds have an interest rate of more then 7%?
'is interpreted as: the user wants to know whether theproposition is true, which means in our example, takinginto account he modal verbk6nnen, whether it is possiblefor bonds to have an interest rate ofmore then 7 %.One problem arises when the modal verb sollen occurs in aquestion.
Normally it is interpreted as indicating a want,e.g.,(4) Soil ich das Fenster schliegen?
'l\]hould I close the window?
'Here the speaker wants to know, whether there is someother pers~m (probably the hearer), who wants the propo-sition to be true.
But this interpretation doesn't make anysense in a consulting dialog.
Ina  consultation the speakeris not interested in the wants of the advisor, e.g.,(5) Soll ich Pfandbriefe mit 5% Rendite kaufen?
'l~hould I buy bonds which have an interest rateof 5 %?
'Rather than inquiring about someone lse's wants, as in(4), the speaker is interested in a recommendation:(WANT USER (KNOW USER (I~,ECOMMI,IND SYSTEM P~)The interpretation of modal verbs is further infiuet~ood byeonnectiw~;; which may occur in complements.
Considerthe following sentence:(6) Meine Sehwester mug viel Geld habcn.
'My sister nmst have a lot of money.
'In this case one can only infer that the speaker bo!ievesthat the proposition is true, namely that his sister has a lotof money.
The interpretation completely changes when wehave:(7) Meine Schwester mug viel Geld haben, um th~ Hauszu bauen.
':My sister needs to have a lot of money in order tobnild her house.
'It is possible that the speaker believes as in (6) that hissister has s lot of money, but this cannot be inferred fromthe statement.
Here we can only infer that the speakerbelieves that the second proposition (his sister's buildingher house) implies the first one (his sister's having a lot ofmoney).Connect ivosConnective~ are a means of expressing the argumentativeand logical structure of the speaker's opinions by linking'propositions.
Such relations between proposit ions areclassified into severa l  categories uch as inferential ,temporal, causal l inkages \[Cohen 84 and Br6e/Smit 86\].The system interprets underlying beliefs and wants andenters them into the user nmdel in accordance with thedifferent classes of connectives.As an example, take the class of connectives which expressinferences of the speaker, e.g.,(8) Ich will eine Anlage mit kurzer Laufzeit, damit ichschnell an mein Geld herankommen kann.
'i want a short term investment so that I can getmy money back quickly.
'Because of the connective damit the system concludes thatthe proposition of the second part of the sentence is thesuperordinate goal rather than the first proposition al-though this is the want which is expressed irectly.
Theuser supposes that the first proposition is a necessarycondition for the second, which expresses his goal.
Whenfurther processing this logical structure, the system canrecognize the underlying misconception, amely that it isnot the term of an investment which is important forgetting the money back quickly, but the liquidity.The interpretation of connectives depends on the occur~rence of modal verbs, as the following examples demon-strate:(9) Soll ich meine Wertpapiere verkaufen, urn racineHypothek ztt bezahlen?
'Should I sell my securities to pay off my mort-gage?
'(10) Muff ich Gebtihren bezahlen, um mein Sparbuchaufzulhsen?
'Do I have to pay a fee to desolve my savingsaccount?
qIn (9) the modal verb sollen inside the question indicatesthat the user wants a recommendation.
It indicates furtherthat the connective um-zu has to be interpreted as a user'swant.
The correct interpretation is that the user wants toknow whether the system would recommend that the userattempts to attain a certain goal (paying off his mortgage)by selling his securities.Such a want is not inferrable from (10).
It may be that theuser wants to desotve his savings account at somc time inthe future, but the modal verb mtissen (must) inside thequestion does not indicate a current want.
Therefore onlythe relation between the two propositions is the focus ofattention.
Hence we can paraphrase the user's want as 'DoI have to pay a fee if I want to desolve my savingsaccount?
', or, again more formally,(WANT USER (KNOW USER (IMPLIES P2 PLY)),where P2 denotes the desolving event and P1 the feepaying.The Computat iona l  ModelThe processes described in this paper work on a formalrepresentation of utterances which reflects their semanticstructure but also contains lexical and syntactic informa-tion (hedges, connectives, modal verbs, tense, and mood)which has not yet been interpreted.
Our formal representa-t ion language is cal led IRS ( Interne Reprt isenta-tionsSprache, \[Bergmann et.
al.
87\]).
It contains all thestandard operators of predicate calculus, formalisms forexpressing propositional attitudes, modalities, and speechacts, natural  language connectives (and.
or ,  however,therefore, etc.
), a rich collection of natura/!anguage quant-ifiers (e.g., articles, wh-particles), and modal operators(maybe, necessarily).193((EXIST AI (ASSERTION AI))((EXIST PI (PROP P1((EXIST $I (SOLLEN $I))((EXIST P2 (AND (PROP P2((DPL Wl (SECURITY Wl))((EXISTTI (AND (DURAIIONTI)(HAS-UNIT T1 YEAR)(HAS-AMOUNT T1 4)))(HAS-TERM Wl T1))))(HAS-TENSE P2 PRESENT- INFINITIV)))(AND (HAS-PROP S1 P2)(HAS-TENSE $1 PRESENT)))))))(AND (HAS-AGENT A1 USER)(HAS-PROP AI P1))))Die Wertpapiere solleneine Laufzeit yon vierJahren haben.
'The securities should/aresupposed to have a term offour years.
'<formula> ::= (<quantification> <formula>) I (AND <formula>*) I(<conceptname> <variable>) I (<rolename> <variable><variable >) I(PROP <variable> <formula>)<quantification> :: = (<quantifier-operator> <variable> <formula>)<quantifier-operator> ::= EXIST I DPL \] ...\[DPL means definite plural\]Fig.
3: An example of IRS and the corresponding part of the syntax of IRSFig.
3 shows a part of the syntax definition of IRS and therepresentation f the sentence(6) Die Wertpapiere sollen eine Laufzeit yon vierJahren haben'The securities hould/are supposed to have aterm of four years.
'This example contains some important features of IRS:Only one- and two-place predicates are allowed.
Theycorrespond to the concepts and roles defined in ourterminological knowledge base QUIRK \[Bergmann/Gerlach 86\] except for SOLLEN and HAS-TENSE whichstill need to be semantically interpreted.Quantifications are always restricted to a range whichmay be described by an arbitrary formula.The operator PROP allows for associating a variable to aformula.
In subsequent terms the variable may be usedas a denotation of the proposition expressed by thatformula.In the formula given in Fig.
3 the variable A1 denotes theassertion as an action with agent USER and propositionalcontent P1.
$1 reflects the occurrence of the modal verbsollen which is represented like a predicate, but has not yetbeen semantically interpreted.
The "propositional content"of S1 is P2 which denotes the proposition the securities havea term offouryears.For characterizing sets of structures to which one specificinterpretation may apply, we use IRS patterns\[Gerlach87\], i.e., highly parameterized semantic structures whichspecify an arbitrary combination of features relevant othe interpretation process: The surface speech act, tenseinformation, modal hedges, and restrictions on thepropositional content.194,A quite simple example for an IRS pattern is given inFig.
4.
Its elements arevariables (symbols starting with '?
'),constants (all other symbols),a concept pattern (matching any one-place predication),role patterns (matching two-place predications).
(AND (?INFO-TRANS-TYPE ?INFO-TRANS)(HAT-SOURCE ?INFO-TRANS USER)(HAT-GOAL ?INFO-TRANS SYS)(HAT-OBJ ECT ?INFO-TRANS ?OBJ ECT))Fig.
4: An IRS patternThis pattern is used for matching the top level of therepresentation f an utterance of the user, directed to thesystem.
When matching the variable ?OBJECT is bound tothe whole propositional content of the utterance and isused by the subsequent steps of analysis.As described above, we do not only infer new user modelinformation directly, but also perform transformations onIRS structures, e.g., to reduce idioms to more primitivespeech acts.
This kind o?
processing involves applying asetoftransformatlonal rules to an IRS formula where a rule isa pair of IRS patterns as described above (for an example,see Fig.
2).
When instantiating the right hand side of therule the interpreter will create new variables for unboundpattern variables and quantify them in the appropriateway (in Fig.
2 this is the case with the pattern variable ?Q).In WISBER the user model is a section of the central asser-tional knowledge base (A-Box, \[Poesio 88\]) which allowsfor storing and retrieving assertional knowledge in differ-ent contexts which denote the content of propositional tti-tudes of agents.
Hence a new entry is added to the usermodel by storing the propositional content in the A-Boxcontext which contains the user's wants.Conclusior~We have implemented our interpretation module in anInterlisp programming environment.
I  is a part of thenatural lahguage consultation '~ystem WISBER.
Themodule's coverage includes all German modal verbs occur-ing in assections and questions, ome connectives (e.g.,?
and, so that, because) and the most common indirectquestions.
On the one hand our future work willconcentrate on extending the performance of the systeminside the framework which is described in this paper.
Onthe other hand we will integrate the concept of expecta-tions, i.e.
expectations the system has according to theusers next utterance depending on the actual state of thedialog.
Thi~ will enable us to resolve more kinds of ambi-guities in user utterances.ReferencesAllen 83:J. F. Allen: Recognizing Intentions from NaturalLanguage Utterances, in: M. Brady and R. C.
Berwick(Ed.
): Computational Models of Discourse, MIT Press1983, pp.
107-166Appelt 85:D. E. Appelt: Planning English Sentences, CambridgeUniversity Press, 1985Bergmann et.al.
87:H. Bergmann/M.
Fliegner/M.
Gerlach/H.
Marburger/M.
Po~sio: IRS - The Internal RepresentationLanguage, WISBER Berieht Nr.
15, Universit~itHamburg, Faehbereieh Informatik, November 1987Bergman~/Gerlaeh 87:H. Bergmann/ M. Gerlach: Semantisch-pragmatischeVerarbeitung yon J~uflerungen im nati~rlichsprachli-ehen Beratungssystem WISBER, in: W. Brauer, W.Wahl~ter (Eds.
): Wissensbasierte Systeme -GI -Kongress 1987.
Springer Verlag, Berlin 1987, pp.
318-327Bergman~/Gerl~/ch 86:H. Bergmann/M.
Gerlach: QUIRK - Implementierungeiner TBox zur Repri2sentation begrifflichen Wissens.WISBER Memo, Universittit Hamburg, FachbereichInformatik, Dezember 1986Boyd/Thorne 69:J. Boyd / J. P. Thorne: The Semantics of Modal Verbs,in: Journal of Linguistics 5, 1969, pp.
57 - 74Br~e/Smit 86:D. S?
Brae / R. A. Smit: Linking Propositions, in:Proceedings ofCOLING-86, Bonn 1986, pp.
177- 180BrOnner/\[~edder 83:G. Br~inner / A. Redder: Studien zur Verwendung derModalverben, Tiibingen 1983Cohen 84:R. Cohen: A Computational Theory of the Function ofClue Words in Argument Understanding, in: Pro-ceedings of COLING-84, Stanford 1984, pp.
251 - 258Ellman 83:J. Ellman: An Indirect Approach to Types of SpeechActs, in: Proc.
of the 8th IJCAI, Karlsruhe 1983, pp.600-602Gerlach 87:M. Gerlach: BNF - a Tool for Processing FormallyDefined S~\]ntactic Structures.
Universit~t Hamburg,Fachberelch Informatik, WISBI~R-Memo Nr.
17,Dezember 1987Naito et.
al.
85:S. Naito / A Shimazu / H. Nomura: Classification ofModality Function and its Application to JapaneseLanguage Analysis, in: Proceedings of the 23rdAnnual Meeting of the ACL, Chicago 1985, pp.
27-34Poesio 88:M. Poesio: Dialog-Oriented A-Boxing, Universit/~tHamburg, Fachbereich Informatik, WISBER Bericht,to appear.Reinwein 77:J. Reinwein: Modalverb-Syntax, T~ibingen 1977Sprenger 88:M. Sprenger: Interpretation yon Modalverben zu;Konstruktion yon Partnermodelleintragen, UniversitfitHamburg, Fachbereich lnformatik, WISBER MenloNr.
18, Januar 1988Wilensky et.
al.
84:R. Wilensky, Y. Arens, D. Chin: Talking to UNIX inEnglish: an Overview of UC, in: Communications ofthe ACM 27(6), pp.
574-593 (June 1984)Wilks/Bien 83:Y. Wilks, J. Bien: Beliefs, Points of View, and MultipleEnvironments, in: Cognitive Science 7, pp.
95-119(1983)Zernik/Dyer 85:U. Zernik, M.G.
Dyer: Towards a Self-ExtendingLexicon.
in: Proceedings ofthe 23rd Annual Meeting ofthe ACL, Chicago 1985, pp.
284-292195
