Designing and testing linguistic development phases in amachine translation project...........................Bente Maegaard,Institute for appliedand mathematical linguisticsUniversity of CopenhagenNjalsgade 96DK-2300 Copenhagen SDenmarkIn the first sections of the paper the design of ascheme for building up linguistic coverage in amulti-lingual machine translation project (EUROTRA)is discussed and a solution is proposed which alsotakes into account the extensibility of the system,and in the last section the aspect of testing isbriefIy discussed.i~ The environment?This paper concerns a concrete project, EUROTRA,but the problems described are of a general nature.Those basic characteristics of EUROTRA, which arerelevant here, are the following.EUROTRA aims at producing a pre-industrialprototype for machine translation between the 9languages of the European Community.
The vocabularyto be covered is around 20.000 lexical items withinspecific text types a~ within a specific subjectfield.EUROTRA is divided into phases, each with theirsub-goal.
The goal of the second phase is thedevelopment of a small-scale translation system(all languages), for a limited vocabulary (2500items), based on a corpus text.
The goal of thethird (and final) phase is the development of amore general system (not corpus based, extenslhle)with the coverage mentioned above.NOTE: In this descr ipt ion  we have on ly  ment ionedthe goa ls  of l in~_vistic deve lopment ,  andde l iberate ly  left out a l l  other aspects of theproject (research, sof tware etc.
).It should be mentioned as well, that the treatmentof the Spanish and the Portuguese languages is al ittle delayed, because Spain and Portugal joinedthe Community after EUROTRA had started.The project can thus be character ised by threeimportant features:i) median-scale2) extensible3) imllti-iingualA fourth one is that it is corpus-based at onestage, but has to deve lop  into a more generalsystem?The fact that the project is medium-s ized meansthat it is necessary to define various developmentphases for the linguistic coverage - it cannot bebuilt in one single block.Furthermore such an approach whereby the full taskis broken down into smal le r  tasks, supports thef inal  goal that the system should  be extensib le,because the extensibility is built-in and is beingtested already during the development.The fact that the project is a mult i- l insual ma-chine t rans la t ion  project impl ies that for eachlanguage the same or equivalent phenomena should betreated at the same time, so that t rans la t ion  ispossible.Below we wil l  describe the development of the lin-gu ist ic  coverage in the second phase of the pro-ject.In the second phase we are working with one single"corpus" text which exists in a l l  the 9 languages(Danish, Dutch, Engl ish,  French, Gerlaan, Greek,Italian, Portuguese, Spanish).
In fact the goal ofthe second phase is to create a machine translationsystem which is ab le  to t rans late  this text.
Thetext is the Commission of the European Communities"proposa l  for the ESPRIT programme, some sampletexts are shown below, to g ive  an idea of thesimilarities and the differences.One can e.g.
not ice that par t ic ip le  construct ionsmay correspond to re la t ive  c lauses  (in somelanguages, llke English, there is a choice betweenthe two, in others, l ike Danish, on ly  one ispossible),  one can a lso  notice the complex  use offuture and modality in wi l l  need, devront (avoir),skal  (have), braucht.
These are just typical  andwel l -known examples  of differences/slmilaritiesbetween the languages treated.DanishDe, som er involveret i udvikling og anvendelse afprogrammel, skal have adgang til progranmleludvik-lingsverkt@jer i et gradvis mere integreret milj~,og de, som harmed datamatst@t~et  konstrukt ion(CAD) ....Those invo lved  with the deve lopment  and use ofsoftware wil l  need access to software developmenttools, in a progressively more integrated environ-ment, and those involved with computer aided design(CAD) ....FrenchLes personnes s'occupant du d6ve loppement  et del~t i l i sat ion du logiciel devront avoir ace,s auxoutils de d~veloppemeut de plus in t~r~ et cellesin t~ress~es  par la concept ion  ass i s t~e parord inateur  (CAO) ....GermanWer an der Entwicklung und dem Einsatz von Softwarebeteiligt ist, braucht im Rahmen eines schrittweisestarker integrierten Umfeldes den Zugriff zu Soft-ware-Entwieklungswerkzeugen.
Wer slch mit demrechnergest~tzten Entwurf (CAD) ... befasst ...2.
The definition of linguistic coverage.========================================A very obvious way of ensuring correspondence be-tween the phenomena treated in the variouslanguages is of course to treat the first n (n =5/10/25) pages in each language (extensional defi-nition of coverage), because it is given that thetexts are equivalent.
But such a method would havenothing to do with designing, as one would get arandom collection of linguistic phenomena.
Further-more the extension to a greater coverage (e.g.
next20 pages) can normally not be done in a systematicway (because the point of departure was not syste-matle).
It is well-known that this working methodhas several disadvantages: it gets easily out ofcontrol, so that error correction becomes im-387possible, and secondly, the actual coverage of thesystem becomes unknown.Therefore we have made a description of what thegrammars of the various sub-perlods should cover(an intensional definition).
It follows from thediscussion above that such a definition of thecoverage of gray,mr and vocabulary has to meet thefollowing conditions:I )  it has to describe equivalent phenomena Inthe various languages2) it should be possible to extend thelinguistic coverage, without throwing away(too much of) the grammars and dictionariesalready produced.Point 2) above led to suggesting that in the firstperiod one should concentrate on developing a sys-tem contaning the sceleton of a sentence and itsmain building blocks.
Therefore the first defini-tion of linguistic coverage covers main clauseswith no dependents (with one exception).
Such sen-tences are of course quite simple, but it should benoted that the main clauses may contain adverbialsin all possible positions, and all arguments in allpossible orders.
The idea is that e.g.
adverbial"slots" in a next version of the grammar is thenexpanded to be filled not only by adverbs, but byadverbial clauses.An overview of the scheme made for the developmentof the linguistic coverage in the second phase ofEUROTRA is given in the appendix.
In the followingwe will co~ent  on the reasoning behind it.At t~ constituent level we have first af ail thenoun phrases.
All types of noun phrases are treatedin the first round, i.e.
all types of modificationof the noun itself or any of its modifiers inclu-ding participles.
This inclusion of participlesentails the inclusion of relative clauses in orderto make translation possible, ef.
translation fromFrench into Danish of the above exampless'occupant, int~ress~es.In the first round no control verbs are treated, asthis would add the complication of empty elementsand co-indexing.
By the same rule no modal verbsare treated in the first period.
Auxiliary verbshowever are accepted, as they together with themain verb form one unit at a later stage of analy-sis.The fact that modal verbs are excluded has led toexclude also the future tense, - as the fu tureauxiliary is in many languages a modal verb.
As forother verb tenses the following are treated: onlyindicative, both active and passive, present andpast tense, and tenses made by combination of pre -~sent and past tense of auxiliaries with participles(~ perfect, pluperfect).
We do not include sub-junctive, and not infinitives.In order to avoid co-indexing, also some of thepronouns have been omitted: personal and demonstra- !tive.
The pronouns included are: possessive, rela-!rive, ref lexive,  indefinite, and a l ladjec{ivalpronouns (not because these do not involve co -indexing, but because missing co-indexing is hopedto be less damaging in these cases).In the second period the following complicationsare added: Subordinate clauses~ adverbial as wellas nominal.
These clauses may take the place o fsimple adverbials or noun phrases of the firstperiod.
This means that the grammar rules speci-fying sentence patterns has to be slightly modi-fied.388Furthermore participle constructions withsentential function are added.
As mentioned aboveparticiples modifying a noun were part of the firstperiod.
Control verbs and infinitives are alsoadded, and simple coordination (coordination ofnoun phrases, adjective phrases, adverbs, preposi-tional phrases).Participles, control constructions and coordinationall require empty eleraents and co-indexing.
Correcttreatment of relative and other pronouns alsoinvolve the use of a co-indexing mechanism.Furthermore, as a complication to noun phrases andadjective phrase@, sentential arguments for nounsand adjectives are added.The last type of grammatical construction, which isadded in the second period, is verbless sentences(headlines, titles etc.).
As sentences they have adifferent grammar, but also as noun phrases theymay have a slightly different syntax.Finally, in the third period laodal verbs and othermodal expressions are included, as well as varioustypes of movement phenomena.
It has been foreseenalso to include treatment of parehtheticalinsertions and appositions, and a better treatmentof pronominal reference, but this may have to bepostponed to the third phase of EUROTRA.2a.
Comment: Levels of descriptionIn the above short survey we have been using onlysyntactic and morpho-syntactic criteria.
But as anyother natural language project EUROTRA operateswith deeper levels of description as well.The definition of the linguistic coverage has totake phenomena at these levels into account aswell.
Ilere we may take the verbal tense / verbaltime as an example.In the first period only main clauses are treatedand only some tenses and only at the morpho-syntac-tic level (awaiting a semantic legislation for therepresentation of time).
In the second period thetime legislation , i.e.
the deep representation ofthe tenses, is implemented, and in the third periodit is extended to subordinate clauses at thesurface as well as the deep levels.This is of course one way of defining linguisticcoverage.
It could be argued that a more reasonableapproach would be to start from the interfacestructure definitien which is common for alllanguages and define the coverage in terms of this.We find at least two arguments against this: first.of all the practical one that a full definition ofthe interface structure was not ready when thefirst implementation started.
Secondly, thel%nguistic data which have to be treated are ex-pressed as surface text, and it seems more reason-able to define coverage systematically in terms ofthis surface representation, than in terms of theabstract representation.2b.
Lexical coverageAn aspect of linguistic coverage which has not beentreated above is the lexical coverage.
The lexicalitems are of course taken from the corpus of thesecond phase of EUROTRA.
But a definition of lexi-cal coverage consists in more than just definingthe vocabulary: it also consists in defining thecontent of the dictionary, the number of readingsto be distinguished, the feature system to be used.The reason that the vocabulary and its number ofreadings cannot be seen as being defined by thecorpus text itself is that this would be too spec i -fic and hence too unsystematic, i.e.
not easilyextensible.
Here the question of extensibility maybe a little different than for the grammar.
Exten-sibility of a lexicon in terms of adding new items,using the same features as in an earlier version ofthe dictionary, presents no problem.
But when theaddition rather consists in adding new distinguish-ing features, i.e.
new readings, all the relevantiexica\] entries have to be checked for modifica-tion.
The only measures which can be taken tofacilitate this type of extension of the dictionaryis to use a reasonably well-structured set of:features, so that extensions may concern only onefeature or a few features at a time.3.
Concluding remarks on extensibility.======================= .......While not claiming that the above defined scheme ofprogressively growing linguistic coverage is tileonly possible one, we believe to have sllown that itis a reasonable one, with respect to the languagesinvolved, and with respect to extensibility.
Themodifications of the grammar whicb are necessarywhen going from one period to the next can in mostcases be made very locally.
Take as an example theextension of a noun phrase to comprise sententialcomplement; this can be done almost solely by addi-tions to the grammar, but obviously a few modifica-tions a~ the existing grammar cannot be avoided.Furthermore we want to add some comments on thepossible definition of the linguistic coverage inthe third phase of EUROTRA (and maybe beyond).
Itmay well be that, taking into account the complexi-ty of I:he system~ and the multitude of languages,it will be more revealing to define the linguisticcoveragt~ in a negative way: by stating the phenome-na which are not treated.
Internally however, inthe project, and in particular in the languagegroups, the expllcit, intensional definition ofcoverage will always be needed, and will be tilebasis ol the linguistic design.Before we leave this section on definition oflinguistic coverage we coul.d add information on theactual status of implementation: the first periodcoverage was obtained for most imlguages duringspring 1987, second period will be obtained early1988, and third period mid 1988, for all tile mainmodules: analysis, transfer and generation.4.
TestingThis is a very brief sketch of the types of testingneeded to cheek tile linguistic coverage.
The typeof testing which is adequate is of course dependenton the way in which the coverage has been defined:If tile extensional definition of a corpus has beenadopted, then tile testing is very simple: check ifthe corpus can be treated adequately.If an inteusional definition is adopted like theone suggested above, the question of testing be-comes less simple, because the claims of the systemare more general: all sentences described by tilegrmnmar and the lexicon should be treated adequate-ly, and such a set of sentences will normally beinfinite.
}\[ere it seems reasonable to combine two approaches:first of all, the conduction of a systematic test,whereby all types of constituents, and a reasonableamount of combinations of constituents are tested.And secondly, also to test tlle grammars and dletio~naries developed against "real" text.
This lasttesting allows for random combinations that werenot takea into account by those devising the syste-matic test.
All this testing should be done afterthe implementors" testing is performed, and by adifferent group of people.Ackn9wled~ementThe definition of the linguistic coverage of thesecond phase of EUROTRA was made by CharlotteTouhro (then: EUROTRA-DK, now: ALPS, Switzerland)and the present author.We also want to thank the many collaborators inEUROTRA who consented on this definition, therebyimproving it.ReferenceAlan Meibyp.104-106.
(no title), Proceedings of COLING86,Appendix: schematic overview of the elements of thesub-periods.Period i.Sentences containing one main clause with a verb- in any tense except for morphologically ex-pressed future- in active or passive- in indicative.Constituents that are themselves not sentences,except for modifiers with verbal governor in anoun phrase (participles).Constituents that do not contain sentences, exceptfor strictly subordinated, modifying relativeclauses and partieipai constructions.Fully expanded noun phrases except for appositions(this includes all kinds of modification withadjectival phrases, numerals~ prepositionalphrases etc.
).All pronouns except for personal and demonstrativepronouns .All adjectives, including prouominal adjectives.All adverbs.Coordination, only for simple noun phrases.Period 2 (extensions).Subordinate clauses, adverbial and nominal.Infinitives governed by control verbs, and "free"infinitives (infinitives governed by modal verbsare excluded).Participles with sentential function.Sentential arguments for nouns and verbs.Coordination of noun phrases, adjective phrases,adverbs, prepositional phrases, but excluding verbphrases and clauses.Verbless sentences.Time in laain clausesPeriod 3 (extensions).Modality.Tilae in subordinate clauses.Hovement.Apposition, parenthetical insertion.Pronominal reference.389
