Reasons why I do not care grammar formalismJun-ichi TsujiiDept.
of Electrical Engineering,Kyoto University,Yoshida-honmaehi, Sakyo, Kyoto, 606, JAPANGenera l  CommentsComputational linguistics (CL) has borrowed a lot of ideas fromTheoretical Linguistics (TZ).
We could not have developed evena simple parser without the research results in TL.
It is obviouslynonsense to claim that we, computational linguists, do not careresearch results in TL.llowever, the researchers in TL, it seems to me, are very fondof fighlinq~ especially, those who are called Synlaclicians.
Theyalways fight with e~h other by asserting that their grammarformalisms are superior to the others'.
They are oversensitiveand tend to distinguish people into two groups, the ally and theenemy.A computational linguist using LFG (or pseudo LFG) as asmall part in his total system is taken as the ally of LFG, and iscertainly accused by the other groups.
They promptly demon-strate that LFG is wrong, by showing a lot of peculiar sentenceswhich rarely appear in real texts.We are tired of listening to such discussions.The Reasons WhyFormalisms are prepared for accomplishing specific purposes.
Theformalisms in TL have been proposed, roughly speaking, for de-scribing the rules of distinguishing rammatical word sequencesfrom arbitrary ung~ummaticalsequences, and of relating the gram-matical sequences with the other representational levels.On the other hand, a formalism we need in CL is for differ-eat purposes.
That is, we need a formalism for describing therules of distinguishing the most feasible grammatical structuresfrom other less feasible but still grammatical ones of the samesentences \[Disambiguation\].
We also lined a formalism in whichwe can manage systematically a large amount of knowledge ofvarious sorts necessary for NLP.Formalisms for different purposes, of course, should be eval-uated based on different standards.
The current discussions ofdiffhreut formalisms in TL are irrelevant to our standards, thoughthey may be important for their fights.
The following is a list ofthe reasons why I think so.
(1)\[Small and Peculiar Examples\]: Linguists Mways arguethat their formalisms are better than others by using almost thesame set of peculiar sentences.
This implies that the differencesof the formalisms are revealed only in these types of sentenceswhich rarely appear in real texts.F~lrthermore, it often happens that all of the proposed formalismscan capture the same regularity.
They only claim that their for.-malisms capture it more elegantly than others, elegantly accord--ing to their standards.
(2)\[Meaning and Knowledge\]: The elegance oftheir formalismsis obtained partly by ignoring uninteresting phenomena, againuninteresling according to their standards.
Especially, they ig-nore largely phenomena related to meaning, extra-ling~tistic knowl-edge, contexts, etc.
Or they ignore them by claiming that theyare related to these factors.
(3)\[Disambiguation\]: Linguists can ignore the uninterestingphenomena, but CL researchers developing actual systems can..not.
The systems have to cover wide ranges of phenomena whichreally appear in texts.
Furthermore, disambiguation, which is thehardest problem in CL but not at all in TL, certainly requiresconsiderations in the factors which syntacticians ignore.I fear that lhe elegance of their \]ormalisms becomes a seriousobstacle ~o the introduction of such extra factors and processingaon them.
(4)\[Management of Grammar Descriptions\] : l also fear thattheir elegance becomes an obstacle to the systematic develop.meat and management of grammar descriptions.
Grammar de-scriptions here include the descriptions of both rules and dictio-naries.
Some formalisms are claimed eleganl in the sense thatthey require only very few rules.
But this elegance is obtainedby very complicated ictionary descriptions.
The standards ibrbeing elegant seem different in TL and CL.
?
(5)\[Processing Issues\] : The grammar formalisms ignore rnostlythe processing issues.
Linguists do not care processing issues intheir formalisms just as we do not care grammar formalism.ConclusionI have to repeat here that I do not claim that TL research isirrelevant o CL.
I only claim that grammar formalisms are notimportant.
What is important is in their discoveries which aredescribed by their formalisms.
And what we have to do is todescribe their discoveries in our own formalisms.452
