Morphosyntactic correction in natural language interfacesJean VERONIS *Groupe Representation et Traitement des ConnaissancesCentre National de la Recherche Scientifique31, ch.
Joseph Aiguier13402 MARSEILLE CEDEX 9 - FRANCEAbst ractMorphosyntax cannot be simply ignored in natural-language man-machine dialogue since it constitutes animportant part of the meaning.
Nevertheless, troublesomeside effects can arise when morphosyntactic errors arecombined with other types of errors.
We describe here anefficient means of handling quite complex combinations oftypographical, phonographic and agreement errors inFrench, which are typical of C.A.I.
users : a sentence aserroneous as les cott6 adgassan ~ I'ippeauttainuz sonperpndiqul~re (!)
will be perfectly recognized and t rans latedinto les c6t~s adjacents ~ I'hypot6nuse sont perpen-diculaires (the legs adjacent to the hypotenuse are perpen-dicular).
'slips of the pen'), whereas competence errors reflectignorance about language rules or misconceptions aboutthe domain.
Phonographic errors (in French : ippeauttainuzfor hypot6nuse ) or agreement errors (les c5t6 oppos6 forles c6t6s oppos6s ) are typical competence errors.
In man-machine communication, the correction of competenceerrors is far more important than the correction ofperformance ones (see V~ronis, 1988c).
In fact, when facedwith an error message, the user can correct typographicalerrors, for example, but he will generally be unable tocorrect phonographic or agreement errors.
He can only tryvarious spellings at random, which is a rather frustrating wayof interacting with a system.
We have tried elsewhere(V6ronis, 1987b, c) to demonstrate how some semantic andconceptual errors can be handled (especially wrongpresuppositions) using a special many-sorted logic.
Thepresent paper focuses on morphosyntactic errors, inflexionand agreements.I.
I n t roduct ionThis study was carried out within the context of a C.A.I.system for teaching plane geometry at high school level,which is being developed at G.R.T.C (Chouraqui, Inghilterraand V6ronis, 1988).
In this system, natural-languageinterfaces occur in various places : experts are enabled totransfer knowledge (tl~eorems, problems), and students tomake demonstrations, using natural language.
Errorcorrection is particularly important in C.A.I.
systems, sincestudents are generally poor spellers and poor grammarians,and they make .many conceptual errors in the Subject theyare learning.We introduce a distinction between competence andperformance errors.
Performance errors are simply due tomechanical or neuro-motor problems (typographical errors,We would stress that morphosyntax cannot be simplyignored in natural-language man-machine dialogue.
Let ustake, for example, the following wrong sentence, concerninga right triangle (we translate word for word; in French,determiners and adjectives agree in gender and numberwith nouns) :Trace les c6t6 oppos6 a rangle droit.
(Draw thepl, sidesg, oppositesg.
\[to\] the right angle).Two corrections of this sentence can be performed :Trace le c6t6 oppos6 ~ rangle droit (singular).Trace les c6t6s oppos6s ~ rangle droit (plural).In tl~e first case, there is no conceptual error, whereas, in thesecond, the user could (for example) have confused c6t6oppos6 (opposite side : there is exactly one such side, thehypotenuse) and c&t~s adjacents (legs adjacent to the rightangle : there are two of them).
This second interpretation* The author's paper entitled "Une extension ,~ la distance entre chaines" was accepted at the COLING'86 conference in Bonn, and actually presented in thesession Morphology.
Due to some technical error the paper was not included in the final program and was omitted ~om the Proceedings.708should trigger an error message such as :> Warning : in a right triangle, there is exactly one sideopposite the right angle, the hypotenuse.
Do you wantto see the figure (y/n)?problems, such as errors caused by the input devices, ortransmission) or typographical errors, due to keyboardtyping slips, such as those listed in Damerau's (1964) often-quoted study, which shows that 80% of errors in wordsbelong to one of the following categories :We must therefore correct morphosyntactic errors (genderand number, but also person, tense and moods) with greatcare, and apply appropriate rules to find out the righti nte rpretations.- substitution of a letter for another,- addition of a letter,-deletion of a letter,- transposition of two adjacent letters.The problem becomes rather more complicated whenseveral types of errors (typographical, phonographic andmorphosyntactic) are combined in a single word.Troublesome side-effects can then arise when amorphological program attempts to reduce such words totheir root form.
For example, the wrong form hippoth6nuseswill be reduced to a hypothetical root form hippoth~nuse,which is not to be found in the dictionary.
In addition, theinflexion itself may be misspelt (e.g.
d6montron, instead ofd6montrons ).
In such a case, the wrong ending may inaddition no longer be a possible inflexion, so that thestandard morphological program will fail in trying toconstruct ~ hypothetical root form.
We therefore need a two-.
'~tage process, in order to first find out the root and inflexionof inflected words despite typographical or phonographicerrors, and then to apply appropriate rules to obtain the rightagreement interpretations.
These rules will involve someweighting of the possible agreement errors, which makescertain interpretations more likely than others.I I .
Root  and  in f lex ion  re t r ieva lThe most common strategy in spelling correctionconsists of applying reverse morphological transformationson words to produce a hypothetical root form, and thenlooking it up in the dictionary.
If there is no matching entry, aspelling correction program is triggered.
Nevertheless, if theinflexion i.~ misspelt, the problem is really troublesomesince, as mentioned above, the morphological program willbe unable to produce a hypothetical root.
The solutionconsisting of avoiding any morphological analysis by storingall inflected forms in the dictionary is a very inefficient one,since spelling correction algorithms all involve scanning asometimes quite large portion of the dictionary.
The timespent on spelling correction will then naturally be evengreater in an inflected dictionary (remember, for example,that French verbs have about forty different inflected forms).Moreover, much research has been devoted to spellingcorrection since the very beginning of computer science (fora review, see Peterson, 1980, and Pollock, 1982), but hasgenerally focused on noise errors (due to hardwareThe first three errors can result from either noise ortypographical causes, and the fourth is specifically atypographical one.
We agree with Damerau (1964) thatwhen writing computer programs or indexing documents bymeans of keywords, these errors are almost the only oneswhich occur.
The same words are constantly repeated, andthe operator (a specialist) knows exactly how to spell them.The mistakes made are therefore nearly all performanceerrors.
But when the general public (especially in C.A.I.
)uses computer services, very different problems can arise.Performance errors are still present, of course, but they arecoupled with a very large number of competence errorssuch as phonographic ones, which, as we said previously,must be dealt with first and foremost.The mathematical framework developed for noise andtypographical errors is very badly suited to phonographicerrors.
For example taking Wagner and Ficher's (1974) andLowrance and Wagner's (1975) distance between strings(based on edit operations which model Damerau's fourkinds of errors ), the wrong spelling ippeauttainnuz is veryfar from the right one hypotenuse, though it is obvious toany French speaker that the pronunciation is exactly thesame.
In addition, methods based on a transcription ofwords into some phonetic form cannot work whenphonographic errors are combined with typographical ones.We have therefore extended the notion of proximitybetween strings to take phonetic similarity into account.
Inthe case of phonographic errors, a whole grapheme, whichcan be more than one letter long, can be replaced byanother grapheme having the same phonetic value.
Thisdefines a similarity relation between graphemes, as shownin Figure 1.
The basic idea is to extend the edit operations tosimilar-substring substitution, and to associate high costswith edit operations altering pronunciation (most noise andtypographical errors) and low costs to edit operationspreserving pronunciation (phonographic errors) (V6ronis,1988a, b).In addition, we established a precise quantitativeinventory of sound-to-spelling correspondences, which,although absolutely necessary in any attempt to buildefficient phonographic correctors, was sorely lacking forFrench.
This collection of data has subsequently proved to709be usefulto both psycholinguists and teachers (V~ronis,1986,1.988d).
@UmtUlml l lIIIIIII!
!I I I I I I I !11!
!11111111Figure 1 : part of the similarity relation betweensubstrings with FrenchThis led us to the building of an efficient algorithm forretrieving from a dictionary words'which can be riddled byboth phonographic and typographical errors.
This algorithmis an extension to phonographic errors of the algorithmproposed by Damerau (1964), Morgan (1970), and Durhamet aL (1983).
There are two essential differences betweenthe latter and the algorithm that we propose.
First, we try tomatch the entire unknown word against a dictionary of rootforms, as we shall describe later.
Secondly, we scan thestrings x and y from left to right, no longer by simplychecking at each point ( i , j )  that the symbols x\[ i  \] andy \[j'\] .are the same, but rather by testing whether thesesymbols constitute the beginning of any similarly-pronounced substrings.The problem is to find as quickly as possible the longestsimilar substrings at each point (i, j.)
of the analysis.
Wehave no room here to go into technical details, but this ispossible using rather sophisticated methods which consistof pre-computing tables from the similarly-pronouncedrelation between graphemes, and storing the dictionary in acoded form where each character is replaced by a codewhich stands for the longest substring which begins with thischaracter and can be involved in some similarly-pronounced relation (V~ronis, 1988b).The restriction stipulated by Morgan (1970), andDurham et al (1983) is that the unknown word must containno more than one typographical mistake, since this willcover the large majority of cases : two typographical errorsrarely occur in the same word (Pollock and Zamora, 1983).We soften this restriction by allowing one typographical errorin the root, and another at the ending of the word, in theinflexion, while within a word we accept an unfimitednumber of phonographic errors.
Words as incorrectly speltas ippeauttainnuz, hipptainuz, hyoth6nnuse ( forhypotenuse) are perfectly recognized.
This algorithm isquite fast enough for natural-language interfaces usingdictionaries stored in R.A.M., since the access time to thecorrect entry in a 3O0-word French dictionary generating"700 inflected forms is about 25 ms with a Pascal program ona Macintosh II computer.
The time taken hardly depends atall on the length of the word or on the number ofphonographic errors it contains.
Better results could beobtained by a more sophisticated organization of thedictionary (in tree form, for example).1)As long as x\[ i  \ ]and  y \ [ j \ ]  are the beginning ofsimilar substrings, the indexes i and j are incremented bythe lengths of the respective similarly-pronouncedsubstrings, and this step is repeated (Fig 2.a).2) When two symbols are found which do not fulfill thisrequirement (Fig.
2.b), the following four hypotheses aretested (they correspond to typographical errors) :- the next- the next- the next- the nexttwo adjacent letters have been transposed,letter is missing (as in the example),letter has been inserted,letter has been replaced by another.In each case, it is attempted to match the tail substringsaccording to 1), while skipping the appropriate letters (Fig.2.c).d a lm nttront d al m nttront171 1711a) d (~ m ontr b) d 6 m ontrd a im nt t  r .
:ont : (ont~--.IbIPl 17/'" .
.
.
.d ~ m \[o\] n t rc) d)-er-e-es-ons-ez-ent-(~e-Os-~es3) When the hypothetical root form has beencompletely scanned, if some substring remains in theunknown word, it is matched against a list of inflexions,using the same procedure (Fig.
2.d).Figure 2 : phonographic correction of root and Inflexion710~il.
A~re~rnent correctionOnce the right root and inflexion have been found in thedictionary during the lexical analysis, the morphologicalinlormation (gender, number, etc.)
associated with the wordare passed on to the parser, which deals with any wronga,.)Jeenlents.
In sucl, a case, the parser builds variousinterpretatio,s : le triangles (thesg.
trianglespl.)
can beeerrected into les triangles (plural)or into le triangle(s ingL i lar ) . '
\ ]he  problem is how to classify theseinterpretatior~s depending on their plausibility.
The fewmethods proposed so far (as in Richard and Lapalme, 1986)are not satisfactory.
There are in fact two classicalapproaches.
rhe first consists of favouring the interpretationwhich rninimizes the total number of errors.
For example,correcting le triangles rectangles (thesg.
rightpl, trianglespl.
)into le trianule rectangle (singular) implies two errors,whereas the correction into les triangles rectangles (plural)implies a single error.
The second approach consists ofalways favouring the morphological features of fixed syn-tactic categories.
For example, Richard and Lapalme (1986)propose favouring the determiner in French over the noun.\]his leads, in the previous example, to a correction into lehiangle rectangle (singular).
The two approaches are inm~Jny cases, as here, contradictory.
One can use acornbination of the two methods, for example by applyingthe ,;econd when the first fails (same number of errors uponeach hypothesis), but this will not solve all problems, In fact,we needed to carefully investigate the agreementphenomena, in order to establish a weighting of errors.Our first linding concerned the non=symmetry of errors.People very often forget unpronounced morphologicalmarkers but very rarely add them with no reason.
Adding amarker cost.
'; more than removing it.
Therefore, the grouptriangles r~ctangle (rightsg.
triangleSpl.)
should bepreferably corrected into triangles rectangles (plural).One should also note the very important role ofpronunciation.
For example, it is very unlikely that a usermight write ~.quilat6raux (equilateralpl.)
for 6quilat#ral(equilateralsg.
), since the two forms do not have the samepronunciation.
Consequently, triangle 6quilat6raux (equi-lateralpl, trianglesg.)
should be preferably corrected intotriangles 6quilat6raux (plural).
In addition, one can assumethat native speakers of French are unlikely to produce errorsinvolving the knowledge of morphological features of wordssuch as gender, number, person.
Everybody knows thatchien (dog) is masculine and chienne (female dog) isfeminirle.
The difficulty is due to the transcription ofagreement markers in an orthographical system.
Therefore,errors such a.
'~ chienne dress6 (trainedmasc.
dogfem.)
shouldbe corrected into chienne dress6e (feminine) and not intochien dress~} (masculine).
The situation would be differentwith non-native speakers of French, for example in a C.A.I.system for learning French, where gender errors would bevery frequent.
In this case, the weighting of errors wouldhave to be different.We postulate three classes of errors with increasingcosts.I.
The least costly type of error consists of deleting amarker involving no change in the pronunciation (e.g.French triangles-~ triangle ).I1.
The second class consists of adding a markerwhich entails no pronunciation change (e.g.
French triangle-~ triangles ).III.
The third and most costly class consists of errorsaltering the pronunciation (e.g.
le-9 la ).Some intermediate cases are distributed among thesethree classes.
For example, errors involving a final so-called'mute' e (which indicates the feminine, and has an unstablepronunciation) will belong to class II in the case of a deletion(e.g., petite ~ petit =small), and class III in the case of anaddition (e.g., petit -~ petite ).The main point is that we cannot simply attibute anincreasing weight to each class, and add the weights whencombining phrases.
It should be noted that an arbitrarynumber of errors in a given class remains less costly than asingle error in the next class.
For example,les triangle rectangle et isoc#le(thepl.
rightsg, and isocelessg, trianglesg.
)should be corrected intoles triangles rectangles et isoc#les (plural)with three class I errors, whereas the correction intole triangle rectangle et isoc61e (singular)would involve a single error, but of class II.This can be modelled by ordinal numbers : O, 1, 2, 3 ....co, m+l..., m 2, etc.
(let us remember that coi.k < (o i+1, V k ).Class I has costs of the form k, class II of the form ~.k, andclass III of the form e)2.k.
In practice, ordinals can be codedby integers, by choosing a sufficiently large integer B (forexample 10), and mapping ~n.k'n+...+ (o.k'l + k'o tok'nBn+...+ k'lB+ k'o.
For example, e}2.2 + e).3+ 1 will becoded by 231.
This coding is adopted in the Figures.The parser conducts the various possiblemorphological analyses in parallel, in order to avoid thecostly backtrackiflgs needed to repeat the analysis as soonas an error occurs, and also to avoid the need for anyspecial error recovery procedure.
This is achieved byassociating a vector of the costs upon each possiblemorphological hypothesis with each node of the syntactictree.
The lexicon provides these values for each word711(figure 3).
For example, the word petits (smallpl.)
will beassociated with the vector \[~,ce.2,0,1\], which means that itcan be a mistake for :petit (masc.
sing.)
with a cost co (adding s )petite (fem.
sing.)
with a cost (o.2 (deleting mute e +adding s )petits (masc.
plur.)
with a cost 0 (no error)- petites (fem.
plur.)
with a cost (~ (deleting mute e ).In addition, each word is associated with a domain,which consists of the only possible corrections, since manywords have restricted morphological features.
This is thecase with most nouns: homme (man) can be onlymasculine, femme (woman) only feminine, gens (people)only masculine plural, but also some adjectives : enceinte(pregnant) can be only feminine.
We represent he domainsby hatching the forbidden part, which is coded by a specialvalue in the vector."
masc.
s ing .
-~~- \ ]  'fem.
sing.
~ lO0 II masc.
plur-----H_ ~o II f~m.
plur.
---n u~ullinterpretation of cost vectorshomme hommesFigure 3 : cost vectors for wordsWhen phrases are combined during the parsing,domains are intersected and costs are added separately ineach vector column in the following way :o~ = (~.k2 + e).kl + ko13 = (~2.k'2 + (~.k'l + k'oe~ @ \[3 = (02.
(k2+k'2) + o).
(kl+k'l) + (ko+k'o)Under the above-mentioned assumption for codingordinals, the addition ~) can be reduced, in practice, to theordinary addition of integers in base B.
Therefore, theparallel computation of the various morphologicalhypotheses is not much more expensive than the usualexact, non-parallel, computation.the same process can be applied to the othermorphological features, persons, tenses and moods.
In thefinal stage of parsing, the least costly hypothesis is chosen(Fig.
4, 5).
If semantic constraints prove this interpretation tobe impossible, the next hypothesis is chosen, and so on.This part is implemented in Prolog and calls on the Pascalmodule described in section II.les=the (plur.
)best interpretation:petitssmall (masc.
plur.
),0blchatte miaulecat (fern.
sing.)
mews (sing.
)F igure 4 : agreement correction on a (very/)erroneous sentence.IVo Conc lus ionAn efficient means of handling quite complexcombinations of typographical, phonographic andagreement errors, which are frequent with C.A.I.
users, isdescribed : a sentence as erroneous as les cott6 adgassanI' ippeauttainuz son perpndiqul~re (l) will be perfectlyrecognized and translated into les c6t~s adjacentsI'hypot6nuse son t perpendiculaires (the legs adjacent to thehypotenuse are perpendicular).
This feature can makeinteraction with systems more pleasant for non-specialists.I 1 )o )1les homme parle=the (plur.)
man (fern.
sing.)
talk (sing.
)best interpretation:o to ~o ~grandsgreat (masc.
plur.
)Figure 5 : Intersection of  domains712REFERENCESCHOMSKY, N. (1965).
Aspects of theTheory of Syntax.Cambridge, Mass.
: The MIT Press.CHOURAQUI, E., INGHILTERRA, C., V~RONIS, J.
(1988).ARCHIMEDE : un systOme expert d'enseignement de lag6om~trie.
8th International Workshop Expert Systemsand theh" App/ications.
Avignon, France.DAMERAU, D. N. (1964).
A technique for computer detectionand correction of spelling errors, Comm.
A.C.M., 7, 3,171-176.DURHAM, I, LAMB, D. A., SAXE, J.
B.
(1983).
Spellingcorrection in user interfaces, Comm.
A,C.M., 26, 10, 764-773.LOWRANCE, R., WAGNER, R. A.
(1975).
An extension to thestring-to-string correction problem, J.A.C.M., 22, 2, 177-183.MORGAN, H. L., (1970).
Spelling correction in systemprograms, Comm.
A.C.M., 13, 2, 90-94.PETERSON, J. L. (1980).
Computer programs for detectingand correcting spelling errors, Comm.
A.C.M., 23, 12,676-687.POLLOCK, J. J.
(1982) Spelling error detection andcorrection by a computer ; some notes and abibliography, J.
Doc., 38, 4, 282-291.POLLOCK, J., J., ZAMORA, A.
(1983).
Collection andcharacterization of spelling errors in scientific andscholarly texts, J.
Am.
Soc.
Inf Sc., 34, 1,51-58.RICHARD, D:, LAPALME, G. (1986).
Un syst~me de correctionautomatique des accords des participes passes.Technique et Science Informatique, 5, 4, 307-320.VERONIS, J.
(1986).
Etude quantitative sur le syst~megraphique et phonographique du frangais.
EuropeanBulletin of Cognitive Psychology, 6, 5, 501-531.VERONIS, J.
(1987 b).
Discourse consistency verificationand many-sorted logic.
Proceedings of the lOthInternational Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence.Milan, 633-635.VERONIS, ,J.
(1987 C).
V6rification de coherence dans ledialogue homme-machine en langage naturel.
Actes duColloque Reconnaissance des Formes et IntelligenceArtificielle, A.F.
C.E.
T., Antibes, 143-158.VERONIS, J.
(1988 a).
Computerized correction ofphonographic errors.
Computers and the Humanities,22,1, 43-56.VERONIS, J.
(1988 b).
Correction of phonographic errors innatural language interfaces.
11th InternationalConference on Research and Development in InformationRetrieval.
Grenoble, France.VERONIS, J.
(1988 c).
L'erreur dans le dialogue en langagenaturel avec des syst~mes experts.
8th InternationalWorkshop Expert Systems and their Applications.Avignon, France.VERONIS, J.
(1988 d).
Sound-to-spelling transcription : acomputer simulation.
European Bulletin of CognitivePsychology, 8, 3, \[June 1988 :in press\].WAGNER, C. K., FISCHER, M. J.
(1974).
The string-to-stringcorrection problem, J.A.C.M., 21, 1,168-173.713
