PANELLanguage Engineering : The Real Bottle Neckof Natural Language ProcessingPanel Organizer, Makoto NagaoDepartment of Electrical EngineeringKyoto University, Sakyo, Kyoto, JapanThe bottle neck in building a practical naturallanguage processing system is not those problems whichhave been often discussed in research papers, but inilandling much more dirty, exceptional (for theoreticians,but we frequently encounter) expressions.
This panelwill focus on the problem which has been rarely writtenbut has been argued informally among researchers whohave tried to build a practical natural language process-ing system at least once.Theory is important and valuable for the explana-tion and understanding, but is essentially the firstorder approximation of a target object.
As for language~current theories are Just for the basic part of thelanguage structure.
Real language usage is quite differ-ent from the basic language structure and a supposedmechanism of interpretation.
Natural language process-ing system must cover real language usage as much aspossible.
The system model must be designed in such away that it is clearly understandable by the support ofa powerful linguistic theory, and still can acceptvarieties of exceptional linguistic phenomena which thetheory is difficult to treat.
How we can design such asystem is a major problem in natural language process-ing, especially for machine translation between thelanguages of different linguistic families.
We have tobe concerned with both linguistic and non-llngulstlcworld.
While we have to study these difficult problems,we must not forget about the realizability of a usefulsystem from the standpoint of engineering.I received valuable comments from Dr. Karen Jensenwho cannot participate in our panel, and kindly offeredme to use her comments freely in our panel.
I want tocite her comments in the followings.Why Computational Grammarians Can BeSkeptical About Existing Linguistic TheoriesKaren .lensenIBM TJ Watson Research CenterYorktown Heights, NY10598, U.S.Ai.
We need to deal with huge amounts of data (number of 5.
We are not interested in using the most constrained/sentences, paragraphs, etc.).
Existing linguistic restricted formalism.
LTs generally are, because oftheories (LTs) play with small amounts of data.2.
The data involve many (and messy) details.
LTs areprematurely fond of simplicity.
For example: punctua-tion is very important for processing real text, butLTs have nothing to say about it.
(This is actuallystrange, since punctuation represents -- to someextent -- intonational contours, and these arecertainly linguistically significant.)3.
There is no accepted criterion for when to abandon anLT; one can always modify theory to fit counterexam-ples.
We have fairly clear criteria: if a computa-tional system cannot do its Job in real time, then itfails.4.
We need to use complex attribute-value strnctures,which cannot be manipulated on paper or on a black-board.
"Trees" are only superficially involved.This means we are absolutely committed to computation.LTs have various degrees of commitment.Existing linguistic theories ate of limited usefulness tobroad-coverage, r al-world computational grammars, perhapslargely because xisting theorists focus on limited notions of"grammaticality," rather than on the goal of dealing, in somefashion, with any piece of input text.
Therefore, existing the-ories play the game of ruling out many strings of a language,rather than the game of trying to assign plausible structuresto all strings.
We suggest that the proper goal of  a workingcomputational grammar is not to accept or reject strings, but toassign the most reasonable structure to every input string, andto comment on it, when necessary.
(This goal does not seemto be psychologically implausible for human beings, either.
)For years it has seemed theoretically sound to assumethat the proper business of  a grammar is to describe all of thegrammatical structures of its language, and only those stmc-trees that ate granlmatical:The grammar of L will thus be a device thatgenerates all of the grammatical sequences of L andnone of rhe ungrammatical ones.
(Chomsky 1957,p.
13)448supposed claims about language processing mechanisms?6.
We are interested in uniqueness as much as in gener-ality.
ITs usually are not.7.
We are more interested in coverage of the gran~arthan in completenesslof the grammar.
LTs generallypursue completeness.8.
We aim for "all," but not "only" the grammaticalconstructions of n natural language.
Defining un-grammatical structures is, by and large, a futiletask (Alexis Manaster-Ramer~ Wlodzimierz Zadrozny).9.
Existing LTs give at bes ta  high-level specificationof the structure of natural language.
Writing acomputational granmmr is llke writing a real programgiven very abstract specs (Nelson Uorrea).i0.
We are not skeptical of theory, Just of existingtheories.At first blush, it seems unnecessary to conjure up anyjustification for titis claim.
Almost by definition, the properbusiness of a grammar should be grammaticality.
However, ithas been notoriously difficult to draw a line between "gram.maticai" sequences and "ungnmunalicai" sequences, for anynatural human language.
It may even be provably impossi-ble to define precisely rhe notion of grammaticality for anylanguage.
Nalural language deals with vague predicatus, andmight itself be called a vague predicator.This being tree, it still seems worthwhile to ~ at parsingALL of the gr,'unmalical strings of a language, but parsingONLY the grammatical strings becomes a dubious enteq~riseat best.
Arguments for doing so reduce ither to dogma, or tosome general notion of proptiety.
Argmnenis against, however,arc easy to come by.
Leaving theoretical considerations a idefor the moment, consider these praguratic ones:(a) The diachronic argumeut.
The creativity of humanuse of language is great, and language systems are alwayschanging.
A construction that was once unacceptable b comesacceptable over time, and vice versa.
Even if a grammar couldd~:seribe at| and only file g~armnatical .sequences today, thet~ane may uot be tree tomon'ow.
So there is, at best, only an~u:ademic uterest in only-g~nmuaticai stmctul'es.
(b) The ptacrical argumeut.
In tile area of alpplied com-p~ltational linguistics, ill-formeti input is a part Of daily life,a~ld u working gmlmuar has to Ilandie it.
By "handle it" we~'Leau no~.
grind to l* ilalt, but f igu~ out some kind of appro-priate ana|ysls and then comment, if possible~ on whatever isd~fticnlt or mnmual, it' real-lit'e natural language processingi~: gnltig to c~ist, the~ must be anme way to exla~t meaninge~en t~xa'~ s|dnga that violate cnstommy syntactic mien, thata,e exc,.
:ssiveiy ~oug and complex, and that are net sentences\[J~: ,-ill.At ~BM Re,  arch, we are developing a broad-coveragel~.ar~,de.g granlmar for English, called tile PLNLP EnglLsh ~raln-mar, og PEG.
Its initial sylUactic component works only withlimited infomratiou - lexical featm~es for pails of speech, formo~phologic~d stmelme, and for some valeucy classes.
Thiscolnpunetlt ries to assilpl some n~asonable st~xtcture to anyinput siting of English.Even iu its Cnrk~3,nt be~iflntng 8tale, PEG has proved tobe ~t' considerable ~sefolness for a lather wide valiety of real-world kWLP taskz.
Its main use so fitr has been as the pin, lugC31kLpolleut of CRITIQUE.
a large-scale natural anguage textpr~gx~s'ding systetn that identifies grammar and style errors in~-;ll,tglis|i text (Iqeido~u et at.
i982, Richatdann and Bradeu-k\[md?~' 1988).
A pt-ototype cxr r lQuE system is UOW fmLc-t~mling hi th r~ major ,'qtplicatitm areas: business offices, apaldislliug center aLrd univeaalries.Real-world natutM language processing nmst deal withhuge amounts of data, which involve many, and messy, details,lf~or example, ~mnctuallon is very impmlant in processing realt!~X~, but cm~nt  liuguistic theorios have nothing substantialto say about puuctuatinlL.
Nor have they anything substan-tial to ~ay about \[aialysls lructures for ellipsis, or for stringsthat deviate ill various degrees frmn tim canmiical order of thel;mguage ill which they OCCllr.
Here is the kinti of natural an-guage ilqmt that CRITIQUI?
; has to deal wilh.
(All of tile textexcerpts below are wrilten EXAC~I'LY ~Ls they were produced.
)Fixzt, a memo that was sent via electronic matt to multipler, sers ill the of/ice envil'onnLe|tt:(1) Over tile comse of tile next couple of days tileaccouoting (lepartment will cooducting inventory oflabs and offices here at X~-L-~X.
I they are currentlyworkiug on file tirst floor, ~unl woddng tirere way niL.If you are ilOt hi yore" oflice and do not plan to bethere withiu the uext few days,please secme all con-lidcntial mail tuLd items you may have of confidentialualuL'e.
Because if you .are LInt tiLere accontlting isgoing to go iu and inventory our equipment.Tile author of text (1) is a ualive speaker of AmericanEuglish, wile ilas a college edncatimi and is employed in a.position of some responsibility ill a large business firm.
Note2ire following problems:(a) "will Collducting" should t~ "will conduct";(b) "conducting inventory" should be "onuducting ani*wentory";(c) "l 6~ey" should he just '"l~ey";(d) "worl~ing the~e way up" shmdd be "working theirway up';(e) "days,please" lacks a space hetweeu tim commaand "please";(i) "of confidential nature" wo~ld be better written~'; "of a conridential nature";(g) The last text segmeut is a fragment, not a com-plete clause, although it is p~esented as if it werei~ seutetlC~,.No liieo~eticaliy pure grammar wmtid ever be able to ann?
,dyz, e text like this.
It may be objected that "granlmar" definestire competeuce thai makes it possible for us to identify mis-t~es  (a - g), aml that any working system is an embodlmeot ofa kind of performauce, not competence.
Very well; note thenthat the role of "gra~nmar" becomes that of a COMMEbrYARYou tile analysis strnctuce, NOT the definition of tile structureitself.
This is exactly the point.
It may be timt we need a newdefiuiiiou of tile teri~l "gra1~mar.
"Within the educational environment, the ch~dienge for acomputational gmmmtn" is even stronger.
Followhig are twoexcerpts from essays by non-native English speakers.
Text(2) is an extreme exanLpte of tile ron,-on style of writing; theinteresting "grammatical" question is what cues might be usedto divide this text into separate sentences:(2) After the analysis of  three graphs we canmake conclusion.
From 1940 to 1980 the farm pop-station and farms decrease but the average farm siz~eincrease, this tendency shows American don't havestrong intensie to work on the farms, as a result it isimpossible to increase the farms but when The peo-ple who would like to work ou farms expand theirf,'um size by themselves or the aid of  government;maybe some other agents want to invest capital intim "farming industry".Text (3) shows interesting problems with tile definite ar-ticle (mass vs. count NPs) and with auxiliaries in VPs:(3) So we know, now we can use tile fewer peo-ple to get the more food.
Is the decreasing farmerwe deduce on tile graph7 Is the farms going to tie-creasing in luture7 Does the average of farm sizewill develope7 No.
No.
No.The problem of non-"grammaticality" is pervasive hi reallanguage use.
The question(4) Who did you tell me that won?supposedly poses an cxtraclinu problem - in terms of Gov-ernment Bhtding Theory, it violates tire Empty Case Principle.Yet it can be heard from the mouths of people who wonkl o111-etwlse qualify as speakers of Standard English.
The sentence(5) He bought for ten shillings a ring.supposedly violates an ordering constraint ill English becausethe prepositional phrase "for ten shillings" precedes the directobject "a ring.
'~ However, as the direct object NP becomesheavier and heavier, the sentence sounds better and better:(5') He bought for ten shillings a ring that de-righted the woman who had previously been pro-posed to by millionaires.To move "for ten shillings" to a position following tim directobject in (5') would be extremely awkward.
Ill this case, it isbetter to interpret tile "granrmalical" ordering role as a stylisticcommem.
The consm~otion(6) Hlmself 's father came.violates theoretical restrictions on aaaphora, or Binding; butit is fine if mad with an Irish flavor.
And the alternative ofhaving a completely separate grammar for Irish English is notappealing.
The sentence(7) Site be happy.is censured because the main verb is not tensed; but (7) is validNon-standard Black English.
And so on.
Many theoreticallyproscribed sequences exist and flourish as stylistic or socialvariants.
To ignore them, and to l~rsue the Holy Grail of agrammar that describes "all and only" the grammatical stringsof a language, would be to defeat the enterprise of broad-coverage computational parsing.Furthermore, it is not uecessary to enforce all of thesupposedly "grammatical" restrictions within a computationalanalysis grammar that actually deals with quantities of realtext, fil real flare.
Our experience with PEG, in rile CRITIQUEapplication, proves this.
PEG produces appropriate parses for(4) - (7).
Then a Style component can comment on the parses,calling attention to whatever problems or variations exist.
Wedo not cut~ntly handle all of the difficulties posed by (1) -(3), but we do handle some of them.
For those grammaticalrestrictions that have to be enforced within the syntactic gram-mat' (such as number agreement), we have a two-pass errordetection and co ffecrion strategy.
For massive problems likethe nm-ons in (2), we use the technique of the "fitted parse,"which tries to identify sensible chunks of text and present hemill genre reasonable framework.Since it is neither desirable nor necessary for a compuotational grammar to define "all and only" the "grammatical"sequences of a language, and since working computationalgrammars are the most comprehensive descriptions that wecan come up with, right now, for natural anguages, we suggestthat the goal of real-world granlmatical nalysis be re-defined:a grammar should try to describe "all," but not "only," thegrammatical strings of  a language.449
