Representing Regu lar i t ies  in the Metaphor ic  LexiconJames H. MARTINBerkeley Artificial Intelligence ResearchComputer Science DivisionUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, California94720AbstractThis paper describes a system for representing knowledgeabout conventional metaphors for use by natural languageanalysis, generation and acquisition systems.
A system ofhierarchically related structured associations i used.
Theseassociations are implemented as a part of the KODIAKrepresentation language.
Particular attention is paid in thispaper to representational mechanisms that can capture general-izations over the system of conventional metaphors as a whole.1.
IntroductionThe most commonly occurring words in English display awide range of metaphorically motivated meanings.
Aknowledge representation system capable of representing thesemeanings must satisfy two competing requirements.
The firstrequirement is that it must be capable of representing thespecific details of each lexicalized metaphor.
More precisely itmust provide enough knowledge to permit he easy recognitionand interpretation of a particular use when it is encountered.The second requirement is that the representation must capturethe relevant generalizations manifested by the system of meta-phors underlying the lexicon taken as a whole.
The systemtherefore must represent both highly specific facts and capturesystematic generalizations.2.
Conventional MetaphorsA conventional metaphor (Lakoff and Johnson 1980) con-sists of source and target concepts.
The target concept is theconcept that is actually under consideration.
The sourcespecifies the concepts in terms of which the target concept isbeing viewed.
When we refer to metaphoric knowledge wemean explicit knowledge of the conventional associationsbetween various source and target domains.
Theseassociations are a conventional part of the language.The first requirement therefore is that the representationmust be able to capture individual metaphors as concepts con-sisting of sets of associations between source and target con-cepts.
Consider example (1),(1) How can I kill a process?This example, from the UNIX domain, involves the conven-tional metaphor that to kill an ongoing process means to ter-minate it.
The target concepts involve computer processes andthe actions that terminate them.
The source concept is that ofthe action of causing a living thing to die.
The metaphor con-sists of the source, target and the set of associations linkingthem.
The associations specify the correspondences betweenthe source and target concepts.
In this example they mustspecify that: the concept kill corresponds to terminate, the vic-tim of the killing is the process terminated and that the killer isthe agent of the termination.3.
Metaphorical RegularitiesIt is not enough for the representation to simply accountfor each individual conventional metaphor in the lexicon.
Theset of metaphorical word senses in the language taken as a* "Ihil research was sponsored in part by the Defense Advance Research Plojeets Agency(DOD), A1pa Order No.
4871, Monitored by Space and Naval Warfare Systems Commandunder Contract No.
N00039-84-C-0089.whole exhibits a number of regularities that must be accountedfor.
This paper will consider two of the most important regu-larities.
The first is the metaphoric use of different wordsmotivated by a single underlying metaphor.
The second regu-larity has to do with the use of the single words with metaphorsthat exhibit various degrees of similarity.Consider the following examples.
(2) Mary has a cold.
(3) John gave Mary a cold.
(4) Mary got a cold from John.The various uses of the verbs have, give and get in these xam-ples are not instances of isolated metaphors.
They all ,arisefrom a common conventional metaphor centered around theidea of state as possession.
This metaphor entails to be in aninfected state is to possess a disease.
The transfer metaphorunderlying (3) and (4) is a natural extension to the core posses-sion metaphor.
In the source domain, the concepts giving andgetting are events that result in a having.
In the same way theconcept infecting leads to an infected state.
Therefore themetaphor infection-is-transfer follows coherently from the corepossession metaphor and the structure of the source and targetconcepts.
The representation should efficiently capture the factthat coherent underlying metaphors give rise to surfacemetaphors that may involve several closely connected words.Now consider these xamples.
(5) John gave Mary a cold.
(6) John gave Mary the flu.
(7) Mary gave John a good idea.
(8) Mary gave John a cold.The similarity of examples (5) and (6) is clearly a result of theapplication of the same metaphor to two closely connected tar-get concepts (infection with either a cold or the flu).
Thetransfer metaphor in this case is at a level of abstraction thatsubsumes both of these examples.
The representation musttherefore permit the representation of metaphors at an, appropriate l vel of abstraction.Examples (7) and (8) are however not in the same kind ofclose similarity relationship.
The metaphors underlying theseexamples have completely dissimilar target concepts.Nevertheless they do exhibit an underlying structural similar-ity.
In both cases an abstract effect upon a person is viewed asa transfer of an abstract concept o the effected person by theagent responsible for the effect.
A fine grained representationinvolving the hierarchical sharing of subparts will be used tocapture this more distant similarity and still permit therepresentation f the distinct arget concepts.The following sections will introduce the variousmechanisms that will be used to both represent the specificdetails of individual metaphors and capture the necessary gen-eralizations and regularities.4.
Representational DetailsThe representation language used to capture conventionalmetaphoric knowledge is KODIAK (Wilensky 1986).KODIAK is an extended semantic net language in the spirit ofKL-ONE (Braehman 1985).
The use of structured associations396as described here for representing metaphoric knowledge hasbeen successfnlly applied to the following tasks: naturallanguage generation (Jacobs 1985), text understanding (Norvig1986, Jacobs 1987) and the acquisition of new word senses(Martin 198'7).In the following sections, pieces of a KODIAKknowledge base are shown with a graphic representation.
Forthe purposes of this paper it is sufficient to understand that rec-tangles represent coherent concepts that can stand on theirown.
These are called absolutes.
Concepts in circles are calledasoectuals.
Asnectuals are contents that are meaningful onlyrelative to a related absolute.
Absolutes are connected to thelraspectuals via an S (Slot) link.
Aspectuals are given typeinformation via the C (Constrains) link that indicate the kind ofconcept ha~ can fill this aspectual.
Arcs labelled D (Dominate)are a kind of ISA oi" inheritance link.
For a more in-depthdescription of KODIAK and this graphical representation seeNorvig (1987).4.1.
Representing Single MetaphorsFigure 1 shows the KODIAK representation f tile sourcedomain frora (1).
It states that a k i l l i ng  is a kind of ac t ionwith a resu l t  that is a death-event  which is in turn anevent.
The kili-victlm of the killing is an inherited rolefrom act ion  indicating that the k i l l - v i c t im is effected bythe action.
The k i l l - v i c t im is constrained to be a L iv ing-th ing  and the k i l l e r  must be an anlmate-agent.
Finallythe equate links require that the k i l l - v i c t lm must be thesame as the t i ler  participant of file death-event .< /Figure h KillingFigure 2 shows the corresponding concepts from tile tar-get domain.
It states that a terminate-action-process i  ate rminate -process  which is a kind of act ion.
Thete rmlnated-proeess  role is an inherited role specifying thepatient of the action.
Tile result of the action is a te rminate -process-effect which is a kind of terminate-event.Finally the terminated-process is equated to theterminated-process-event of the terminate-process-effect, This is analogous to the relationship between thekill-victlm and the diet shown in Figure 1.What is needed is a way of associating the appropriatesource and larget concepts.
Such an association is realized inKODIAK by using a relation called a metaphor-map.
Ametaphor-map is a kind of VIEW relation whose aspectualsspecify con'esponding source and target concepts.
A VIEW isa primitive KODIAK relation that permits a limited inheritancebetween concepts without requiring a strict ISA relationship.Metaphor maps are needed to link all the core source con-cepts in Fignre 1 to their counterparts in the target domain.
Inparticular the killing maps to the terminate-action, thekill-victim maps to the terminated-process, the killermaps to the actor of the terminate-action and the resultof the killing maps to the result of the terminating.
Itis the co-occurrence of all these maps that constitutes the con-ventional metaphor that terminating a process can be viewed as\[ Terrmn!
)Acuoa S\[ Process \]Figure 2: Terminatinga killing.This conventional co-occurrence of a set of metaphoricalassociations i called a metaphor-sense.
A metaphor-sense isimply a KODIAK concept hat ties together a coherent set ofmetaphorical maps.
A metaphor-sense can participate in anunspecified number of component-map relations.
Acomponent-map relation is a kind of component-associationrelation that holds between a metaphor-sense and a metaphor-map.
Figure 3 shows the metaphor-sense kJ_3.1-term?nate-metaphor that ties together all the metaphor-maps underlyingexample (1).To a significant extent metaphor-senses are the minimalmeaning-bearing unit of conventional metaphors.
Metaphor-maps represent the building blocks out of which meaningfulmetaphor-senses are constructed.
The metaphor-senserepresents he level at which one would say that there is a con-ventional metaphor that to terminate something is to kill it.This level of representation will frequently con:espond to a sin-gle metaphorical word sense.4.2.
Representing Extended MetaphorsAs illustrated above with examples (2) through (4) it isfrequently the case that a single core metaphor is the basis forthe extended metaphorical use of a number of related words.Consider the following exmnples.
(9) John gave Mary a cold.
(10) Mary has a cold.A metaphor-sense accounting for (9) with the concepts under-lying tile word give is shown in Figure 4.
This metaphor-senserepresents the conventional metaphor that to infect can beviewed as a transfer.
The relevant maps to this discussion arethe givee-infected, given-cold, and the give-res-inf-resu l t  mappings.
These mappings represent the ideas thatrecipient of the giving is viewed as the newly infected person,' the given thing is viewed as the cold and the result of tile giv-ing is the result of  the infecting action.Now consider the schema underlying (7) as shown it,Figure 5.
In this case the haver is the person with all infection,the cold is the th!ng had and the having corresponds tothe stateof being infected.Figure 6 shows the combined source concepts from thehave-a-cold and give-a -co ld  schemas.
This diagram isadapted from Norvig (1987).
In it we can see how the sourceconcepts from these two schemas are closely connected.
Inparticular: the g iv ing - resu l t  is constrained to be a kind of597Figure 3: Kill-Terminate.-Sensehaving (one that results from a giving), the givee of the giv-ing is equated to the hayer of the givee-has-given hav-ing.
Finally the given-thing is equated to the had of thissame having.
Therefore all of the source concepts of thehave-cold schema re either equated to or constrain conceptsin the g ive-cold schema.
A similar analysis follows for thetarget domain of infection."
~  ....... i .
... Id / \ [  infec!-wilh-cotd~ give-infect-cold ~// ~,,vor ,o0o  ?
"givc-res-inf-resFigure 4: Give-A-ColdHaving }~ H.ve.C.1,L_.\]~/~ B?ing-lnf~ed \]~ "~sFigure 5: Have-A-ColdA given metaphol~cal use must meet the followingrequirements to be considered an extended use of a more tim-damental core metaphor.?
The extended sense must contain all the core metaphori-cal associations a a subset of its own associations.398?
The source and target concepts of the additional associa-tions must be closely connected to the source and targetconcepts specified by the core associations.?
The new source and target concepts must be connected tothe core source and targets in a coherent manner.Figure 7 shows the extension relationship between thecore metaphor have-cold and tile extended sense give-cold.In this diagram we see that the component metaphor mapsfrom the core sense are shared and specialized by the extendedsense.
This section will consider exactly how this instance ofan extended sense meets each of the given extension require..ments.
This example will be used to illustrate in general themechanisms that are used to accomplish metaphor extension.Figure 6: Giving and HavingThe rfietaphor-map representing the fact that a haver playsthe role of the infected, the hayer- in fected map, appearstwice in the extended sense, once as the g iver - in fec tor  andagain as the g ivee- infected.
The giver of the giving mapsto the infector; this matches the core map since the giver isequated to be a kind of haver.
This core map is "also used torepresent the fact that the givee is also this kind of hayer as aresult of the giving.
The next map to consider from the core isthe having-infected map.
This map also appears twice inthe extended sense.
The first use is in the give-res- inf -resmap.
This map indicates that the result of the giving, a havingby the givee, plays the role of the result of the infecting, aninfection of the infected person.
It is therefore a specializedmap from a having to an infected state.
It appears again in the....... _ J .
.
.
.
_G~-c~m____ .
.
.
.
.
.
.
Ii~ze~Jl d_ .
.
.
.
'- .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
\[ J"-<-__ - -Givell-Cold 1Figure 7: Flaving Extending to Giving.qive-pre--\[nf-pre m taphor map.
This map indicates thatyea have to have a cold before you can give it to anyone.
Thisis again basically a map from a having to an infected state.The final map to consider is tile core had-cold metaphor-map.This map appears once in the extended sense as the given--co.l.d metaphor.The links between the shared maps in the extended senseand the malls in the core sense are shown simply as individaalD links.
In fact the specialization of a metaphor-map is a morecomplex suucturcd association i volving the specialization feach of the components.
The tbllowing section on metaphorhiermvhies will go into the details of how this is actuallyaccomplished.
At this point it is sufficient to say that the firstextension requi0ement is satisfied if all of the metaphor-mapsin the core ?xist in the extension as specializations.The second requireruent tbr extension is that tile sourceand target components of the extended sense must be closelyconnected todie concepts specified by the core.
Figure 6 showsthat this is clearly fulfilled in this case ill the source domain.The concepts in the source domain of tile extended sense areall either exlnated to, imruediately dominated by or related by asingle relation to the concepts in the source of the core domain.The same is true in the target domain.
In general the secondreqnirement will be satisfied if the extended concepts arerelated to the core by these types of close association.The final reqnirement speeifies that file extended conceptsbe consistent extensions from both the source and targetdomain of the core metaphor.
This is met in this case by riteresult relations in both the source attd tat'get.
On the sourceside the giving is related to the having fi'orn the core by a resultrelation.
This is shown in the abbreviated slot form in Figure 6by the cj:~_vinw,-result slot.
This relation is inherited fromthe more general category of action and indicates that a resnltof a giving is a having.
The satne analysis holds for the targetdomMn.
The result of an in fect ing  is a state called being-infected.
These states are shown as the target concepts illFigures 4 arm 5.
The last requh'ement is satisfied if the samerelationship holds between the core m~d extended concepts inboth the source atld target domains.4.3, Metal~horlcM HierarchiesMetaphor-maps and ruetaphor-senses are both fifll-fledged KODIAK concepts and can therefbre be arranged inabs~action hierarchies.
The use of hierarchies will be the pri-mary mechanism nsed to aeeom,t for the similarities and differ-ences among conventional ruelaphors.
This use of abstractionhierarchies to capture regularities in the lexicon is similar tothat described in Fass (1988).
The following section will showhow the various similarities; and differences among conven-tional metaphors follow directly froru the relations amongmetaphor-.m!
:,ps.Consider again the k.t.tl-proeess map from (i).
This isa mapping from a concept constrained tobe a living thing to atat'get concept that is not a living thing.
This is a manifestationof a more general metaphor that allows us to view non-livingthings in W, rms of living things for the purpose of explaining ortmderstanding fl|eir behavior in terms of living things.
Exam-ples (11) through (14) from Lakoff and Johnson (1980) all con-tain specialized instances of this general metaphor.
(11) Inflation is eating up our savings.
(12) Those ideas died a long time ago.
(13) He is the father of modern quatltum mechanics.
(14) Those ideas won't yield any fruit.Exatnple (11) is motivated by the metaphor that tile reductionin savings caused by inflation can be viewed as inflation con-suming the savings.
Inflation is therefore viewed as an animalthat can consume things.
Example (12) contains a metaphordealing with the duration of ideas.
When an idea is no longerheld or believed it has died.
At a more specific level we havean idea filling the role of the diet of a death-ev~.~nt as inFigure 3.
This role has the similar constraint as the k i l l -vict im of (1) that it be a liv.t.ns-thinq.
In a similat" way as(1) a set of interrelated rnctaphor-maps link the source domainof death to the target domain of ideas and their duration.
Inparticular there is a metaphor-map from the dier to a conceptthat is not alive.Example (13) contains the notion that the creation of anidea is a birth-event a td that the originator of the idea plays therole of the father in the birth event with the clvated idea play-ing role of the child.
Once again in this metaphor there is ametaphor-map from a concept hat is not a living thing (thecreated idea) to a role that must be one (the child being born).This metaphor-map, however, is more specific since tile con-straint is not only to be a living thing but to be truman.
Finallyexample (14) contains the notion that an idea can produce newideas.
This is metaphorically structured as a plant producingnew fi'uit.
In this case an idea is viewed as a specific kind ofliving thing, a phmt,What (1) and (11) through (14) till have in common i,; theidea that an abstract concept like a process or idea can beviewed as a living thing to explain some aspect of its nature.They differ in the particular kind of living-.thing that is usedand in the role that it plays.
These similarities and differencesresult in specific metaphor-maps in each particular case.
Whatis needed is a mechattism that can captm'e the commonaliticsand differences atnong these various metaphor-maps.This mechanism is provided by tile general inheritancemechanisms provided by KODIAK.
Metaphor-mal~s that shareproperties are dominated by more absu'act parent maps thaicapture the commonalities among the children.
The source andtarget aspeetuals of the parent map are constrained by conceptsthat are more abstract than and dominate the constrainers onthe children's ource and target aspecmals.
Figure 8 illustratesthis situation with the maps from examples from (1) and (11)through (14).The top half of Fignre 8 shows the hierarchical relation-ships among the maps underlying the above examples.
Theyall converge on the abstract ruetaphor-map representing theidea of viewing a non-living-thing asa living-thing.
The twometaphor-maps in the dotted box are expanded in the bottomhalf of the diagram to show the exact details of the inherita neelinks.
In this expansion we can see that the idea-a~'~--living-thing metaphor-map dominates the forgotten-idea-as-diet map.
In the parent map the idea-as~targetaspeetua\] is constrained to he an idea.
The living-thing-as-source aspeetual is constrained to be a llving-thing.In the forgotten-idea-as-dier we see that the inheritedsource aspectual is specialized by being consu'ained by thed ie t  aspectual of the death-event.
The inherited targetaspectual is fitrther specialized by being constrained by the399Uon \[I , .
~ .
, , ^c  , , As  , (6)IFor.otten Ideal ~ ?
~ -- l~rmlnated-l'roc~tss?
,~s (4) I ~ ~ ~ ~  "~ L--s~a _JIdea \[~"NC Idea-As -Livln g-Thing_DK~ For ~ot ten-Idea-As-Diei.~ ThingYFigure 8: Metaphor-map Hierarchyfo rgot ten- idea  aspectual.
The constraining aspectuals,fo rgot ten- idea  nd d ie t  satisfy the appropriate inheritancerestrictions ince they in turn are constrained by idea andl i v ing - th ing  respectively.
It is typically the case that thesource and target aspectuals of metaphor-maps at the bottom ofthe metaphor hierarchy are constrained by aspectuals of somespecific context.
More abstract metaphors tend to have theiraspectuals constrained by less specific absolutes.Careful examination of Figure 8 reveals that themetaphor-maps are actually being specialized in differentways.
Consider the process -as - l i v ing - th ing  specializa-tion of the non- l i v ing - th ing-as - l i v ing - th ing .
In thiscase the metaphor-map is specialized on the basis of the targetconcept.
The generic ategory non-living-thing is replaced byprocess.
In the case of the non- l i v ing - th ing-as -p lantmapping the specialization is done on the basis of the sourceconcept.
The metaphor-map hierarchy may therefore containspecializations based either the source or target aspectuals orboth.Metaphor-maps may also participate in multiple inheri-tance.
Consider the idea-as-aniraal  and idea-as -p lantmaps, These maps inherit heir respective specializations frommultiple parents.
The details for the idea-as-animal  mapare shown in Figure 9.
In this diagram we can see that thismap has two parents the idea-as - l i v ing - th ing  map and thenon- l i v ing - th ing-as -an imal  map.
Its source and targetaspectuals are each dominated by the both of the correspondingaspectuals from each parent.
The multiple-inheritancemechanism assigns only the most specific constrainer to thelower child aspectuals.
In this case the source aspectual is con-strained to be an animal, which is the more specific thanl i v ing - th ing .
In the same way the target is constrained tobean idea rather than the more abstract non-living-thing.
Inthis way the idea-as-animal  map is created by specializingdifferent parts of the two parent maps.Figure 9: Multiple Inheritance4.4.
Represent ing  Metaphor ica l  S imi lar i t iesConsider the relationship between the metaphors underly-ing (15) and (16).
(15) Mary gave John a good idea.
(16) Mary gave John a cold.These examples do not involve metaphors with overlap-ping scope nor are they related in a strictly hierarchicalfashion.
Nevertheless they do to have a structural similaritythat should be reflected in the representation.In particular note that both contain a map that represents400the notion that something that is not an object can be treated asone, (a disease and an idea.)
Both contain the notion thattransfer epresents some change of state with respect o themetaphorical object.
The point of these examples is that themetaphor schemas underlying examples (15) and (16) containindividual component maps that are similar.
This similarity isaccounted for by the hierarchical relationship among the com-ponent maps in each schema.
Figure 10 shows some of therelevant relationships between these schemas that accounts fortheir similarity.
(Note that for the sake of readability most ofthe maps in each schema re omitted from this figure.
)This figure illustrates the building block relationshipbetween metaphor-maps and schemas.
In the give-an-ideaschema two maps are shown.
The g ive - te l l  map is dom-inated by the communicate-as-transfer map which in turnis dominated by the act-upon-as-transfer (Jacobs 1985)map.
The act-upon-as-transfer  map is a map representinga general metaphor that allows abstract events with participantsto be viewed as transfer-events where some participantreceives or donates some metaphorical object.
The given-idea map is dominated by the idea-as-object  map which isin turn donfinated by the non-object-as-object map.
Thismetaphor map reflects the widespread use of reification in ourconceptual system.Similarly in the give-a-disease schema two maps areshown.
The given-disease map is dominated by thedisease-a:3-objeet map.
This in turn is a sibling of theidea-as -eb ject  map since they both have the non-object-as-object mapping as a parent.
Finally the q lve- in foctmap is dominated by the in fec t -as - t rans fer  map whichlike the co~nmunicate-as-transfe~: map is dominated by theact-upon-as-t  r~ns fer mapping.Figure 10 illustrates the somewhat more distant relation-ship between the schemas underlying (15) and (16).
Theyinvolve the same source domain with completely separate tar-get domains.
The domains of communication and infectionsare not related in any meaningful way in the hierarchy.
Theydo not sham any close meaningful parent categories.
For thisreason there: can be no abstract metaphor schema dominatingboth-of the schemas in question.
However the similarity of thetwo schemas is accounted for by the hierarchical structure ofthe component maps and the sharing of maps with commonparents.5.
SummaryAn adequate representation f knowledge about the con-ventional metaphors in a language must meet two require-ments.
It must capture the exact details of individual meta-phors to permit efficient recognition and interpretation.
Inaddition it should reflect he regularities of the system of con-ventional metaphors as a whole.
In particular the extension ofcore metaphors to extended senses hould arise naturally fromthe structure of the metaphor and the structure of the sourceand target domains.
This paper has described a system ofrepresenting conventional metaphors that efficiently meetsthese requirements.ReferencesBrachman, J.
& Schmohe, J. G. (1985) An overview of tileKL-ONE representation system.
Cognitive Science, 9,171--216.Fass, D. (1988).
Collative Semantics: A semantics for naturallanguage processing., Report No.
MCCS-88-118, Com-puting Research Laboratory, New Mexico State Univer-sity, Las Cruces.Jacobs, P. (1985).
A knowledge-based approach to languageproduction.
Doctoral Dissertation, Computer ScienceDivision Report No.
UCB/CSD 86/254, University ofCalifornia, Berkeley, CA.Jacohs, P. (1987).
A knowledge framework for naturallanguage analysis.
Proceedings of the Tenth lnterp, a~tional Joint Conference on Art~cial Intelligence.
Milan,Italy: Morgan Kaufmann.Lakoff, G. & Johnson, M. (1980).
Metaphors We Live By.
Chi-cago, IL: University of Chicago Press.Martin, J.
(1987).
The acquisition of polysemy.
Proceedingsof the Fourth International Workshop on Machine Learn-ing.
Irvine, CA: Morgan KaufmannMartin, J.
(1987).
Understanding new metaphors.
Proceedingsof the Tenth International Joint Conference on ArtificialIntelligence.
Milan, Italy: Morgan Kaufmann.Norvig, P. (1986).
A unified theory of inference for text under-standing.
Doctoral Dissertation, Computer Science Divi-sion Report No .
UCB/CSD 87/339, University ofCalifornia, Berkeley, CA.Wilensky, R. (1986).
Some problems and proposals forknowledge representation.
Technical Report No.UCB/CSD 86/294.
Berkeley, CA: University of Califor-nia, Berkeley, Computer Science Division.o,j0o.l I Ao, o .A, Tr   or\]Figure' t0: Giving Metaphors401
