INTERPRETATION OF NOUN PHRASES IN INTENSIONAL CONTEXTSLeonardo  LESMO and Pao lo  TERENZIANIDipartimento di Infor,naticaUniversita' di TorinoC.so Svizzera 185-  10149 TORINO-  ITALYABSTRACTThis paper presents a network formalism for representing themeaning of noun phrases occurring in the context of intensional verbssuch as seek and want.
The basic assumption is that an intermediaterepresentation is useful to carry out the interpretation process perspi-cuously.
The proposed representation keeps apart de-re (transparent)and de-dicto readings, stating, by means of  suitable arcs and nodes,that in the first case there is a real counterpart of the described entity,whereas in the second case no such counterpart exists.
Moreover, tbeconcept of relevance of the description is emphasized and the rela-tionships between intensional contexts and the dicotomy existingbetween value-free and value-loaded readings of definite descriptionsis discussed.
Finally, t!ae impact of the intermediate representationthe discourse history is considered, in order to explain how such arepresentation accounts for the contextual data and updates themaccording to the informational conte,tts of the sentence beinganalyzed.1.
INTRODUCTIONFormally, an intension is a mapping that associates with eve,ypossible world (actually, with indices that identify possible worlds) adenotation, where a denotation is a set of entities (individuals, rela-tions, functions).
If we take a term, say "animal", it denotes, in thepresent world, a set of individuals; but the meaning of the term can-not be characterized by that set.
For instance, the terms "human" andthe term "featherless biped" denote the same set, but their meaning isdifferent, since the fact that there are ~ featherless bipeds excepthuman beings, in this world, e.'m be regarded as a mere accident.
It isnot difficult to conceive of a different world where another speciesshares the same property with humans.The characterization of possible worlds has been subject todeep philosophical debates, which were mainly concerned with therelationships existing between "conceivable worlds" and "possibleworlds", as well as with the connections existing between alternativeworlds, but, for tim present purpose, we only need to note that:- The concept of "possible world" is rather easy to render formally,expanding the usual concept of interpretation i logics by introduc-ing "indices" on worlds.
Thus, for instance, the mapping whichassigns to each predicate symbol a relation (of the same arity) onthe universe, must be viewed as a set of mappings (one for eachworld), since the denotation of the predicate can vat 3, f iom worldto world.
Equivalently, the intension of a n-ary predicate can bedelined as a function from world indices to n-sty relations.- The concept of "possible world" is rather common in the everydaypractice.
For instance, in saying(1) John  seeks a un icornno relation between John and a real world entity referred to by %unicorn" can be assumed, since no such entity exists.
Nonetheless(2) John  seeks a centauris different fi'om (1).
Intuitively, the expression "centaur" has ameaning different fiom "unicorn", because in some (fictitious)world they are used to refer to different entities.
The same cannot besaid for expressions uch '.,s "centaur" and % being hall' human andhalf horse", since the second can be used to define the first ~.On the other hand, the fact that possible worlds are common to logicsand intuition does not mean that there is an exact match in the waythe concept is used.Let's consider, for instance, the best known treatment ofnatural language in logics, i.e, the work of Monlague's.
In order tomaintain the strict compositionality of his approach, Montaguc llad tomake the interpretation of linguistic entities considerably complex a.For instance, the interpretation of a NP is given as a set of properties,where a property is a function from indices to set of individuals.
Forinstance the property "redness" is that function that, for each index,says what is ted at that index.
Of course, this is intuitively accept-able, but why should "John" be interpreted as a set of properties?
It istrue that with any person we know we associate a bundle of proper..ties that that person has (i.e properties such that the individualdenoted by "John" happens to be in their denotation evaluated at thisindex), but it seems also true that when I say "John" I refer to anindividual and not to his properties ~.
Even more complex is timtreatment of NP's in object position; for instance the phrase "aunicorn" in (1) is interpreted as a property of properties, in order toaccont for the fact that, loosely speaking, sets have to be evaluated"here and now" and so the set of properties that t, unicorn has is thesame as the set of properties that a celltaur has.We cannot go in further details here (more detailed informa-tion can be found in \[Dowry et al 81l), but a couple of questionsnaturally arises: Is it possible to maintain the basic principles of apossible worlds analysis without introducing the complexities ofMontague's inmnsional ogic?
Is it possible to introduce an inter-nlediate level in the semantic interpretation process, which preservesthe idea of  compositionality?Recently, two interesting proposals concerning the semanticsof  NL have been put forward.
It seems that they can give somesuggestions about how to answer the questions above.
We will brieflyoutline them here, but we must first notice that we do not aim atpresenting the philosophical position of those authors, since the dis-cussion that follows is strongly biased to the views we hold about the1 This can simply be due to my scarce knowledge about mythology.
If thereis a more precise characterization f centaurs, uch that it is possible to conceive of aworld where a being half human and half horse is not in the denotation of "centaur",then the same situation as "featherless biped" arises.2 We cannot discuss here our disagreement with a conception of syntax thatassigns to a sentence as (1) two different syntactic stnmtures in order to cope withthe so-called spec~c and non-specific readings (the one where a particular unicorn iswanted vs. the one where any unicorn could serve John's purpose).
We can onlynote that, in our view, syntax is mainly concerned with surface phenomena.
Notealso that in \[Cooper 83\] a Montague-based proposal is presented, that overcomes thisdifficulty.3 Formally, the two alternatives are equivalent if we assurae that no two indi-viduals share the same "total" set of properties.
For this reason, the solution proposedby Montague is perfect, if we assume, as he did, that no intermediate representationof the meaning of linguistic entities is ever built.
In fact, the formulae of intensionalloeics are only tools to renresent constraints on oossible worMs, so tha~ their com-plexities was not a matter at hand.
As we will see, our position is different.37Btopic at hatuLThe first proposal is "Situation semantics" by Barwise andPerry 1183\].
They view the meaning of a sentence as a relationbetween the discourse situation (who are the speaker, the addressee,etc.
), the connections of the speaker (i.e.
its relationships with theenvironmenl), and a described situation (the event, or "type of event",which is being described).
What is flmdamental, in our view, is therejection o1' truth values as "senses" of sentences.
This move accountsfor the non-.equivalence of attitude reperts involving logicallyeqtdvalent embedded sentences.
For instance,(3) John knows that two plus two is fonris not the same as(4) .iohn knows that the square of 37 is 1369although bt,th facts are necessary lruths (with respects to thedifference Imtween meaning and intension, see also \[Lewis 72\]).Also important is the exploitatioo f what is called ,'esourcesituation in the interpretation of constituent of sentences.
In thepresent concern~ we.
can fix our attention on NP's.
Let ItS consider,for example, the meaning of defufite noun phrases:"We can also think of.
d,c \[the n\] 4 as giving a partial functionfi'um situations e to individuals a~,:d,c \[tbe u\] re) is defined and = aeiffd,c \[tile u\] a,,e " IBarwise & Perry 8L pp.149-150\]where the latter means that in the context where tile expression isevaluated tb~ "rehttionar' meaning of u umst single out exactly oneindividual.
If we have available a particular esource situation, thenwe get an individual (a,,), but if such at context is not awdlable, thenthe interpretation of the NP is just the non-evaluated function fi'omsituations to individuals.
In the lirst case, we get the referential (orvalue-loaded) use, since any predicate the sentence xpresses i  aboutthe referred individual (a~,); in the second case we get the attributive(or value-free) use; what is the predicate about in this case?
It will beabout the eventual (possible, future, fictional) fillet" of rite description.The simplesl way to obtain such a resuh is to incorporate the descrip-tion of the individual into tile inlerpretalion of the sentence, so that,whenever th.~ actual fillet" will be avaihtble, the predicate will be trueof it.
This approach does not seem to us in contrast with a possibleworlds analysis: in each such a world there will be all individualdenoted by the definite CXl)ression (possibly different individuals atdifferent indices); thus, the property of satisfying rite description willimply the property expressed by the predicate.
In any case, theiuterpretatior, of sentences on the basis of some specific contextualsituation suggests that the context is made explicit, in particular theconnections of the speaker; of course, in an "nnderstanding" system(be it a human or a computer) such counectious are, at best,presumed, that is the hearer must "imagine" the connections on tirebasis of a "shared" environment or whatever she/he knows about tilespeaker.
More important, in case the hearer is a machine, no realsharing of environment can be assumed, so that it must use an "inter-nal" representation of the outer context; In the present work, thisrepresentation is available in terms of general world knowledge(represented in a KL..ONE like format), plus the history of the user-machine dialogue carried on so far.Another piece of research that must be taken into flccoant con-corns mental apaces \[Fauconnier 8511.
This framework provides uswith a tool for representing the relationships between the individualsmentioned in a sentence and their particular view of reality.
Webelieve that this is one of tire most common nses of the pro-theoretical notion of possible world.
Of course, tile knowledge, thebeliefs, the opinions, the desires of different persons are not the same,and when we want to understand natural language we must try tomodel these differences.
Although mental spaces are not claimed tobe such a modelling technique s, nonetheless they seem useful inmodelling the process that leads to the construction of rite correctinterpretation 6.4 "d" stmtds for the discourse situation, c for the "connections", " \[the 1?\] " forfile meaning of 'the 'g', "e" for the described situation.This paper does not present an implementation f the mentalspaces approach, but uses one of the basic ideas of that work: somelinguistic ontexts "set up" local spaces that constrain the meaning ofthe entities occurring in them.
So, a mental space represents a localview of linguistic entities, that may be used to isolate the (referred)beliefs, desires, etc., of the mentioned individuals.It should be clear from the above discussion that we are notadopting in full any of the positions of the reviewed works.
It seems,however, that each of them can have a strong impact on the overallframework.
Thus, an adaptation of mental spaces can help in model-ling the process of building the meaning of sentences; a "situational"analysis can help in unde,'standing how such a meaning must mergewifll the environment; a possible world approach can provide thebasic insights about the tinal result of the interpretation.
This paperis mainly concerned whh the first of these three aspects.2.
OVERVIEW (IF THE Pt lENOMENA TO MODELThis paper is concerned with the interpretation of nounphrases and in particular with NP's occurring in intensional (oropaque) contexts and to the dichotomy existing between value-loadedand value-flee interl)retations.
The final goal is to show bow the for-malism of lri-eoncepts (introduced in \[Di Euge,tio & I.esmo 87\]),extended in a suitable wily, accounts for tile phenomena under study.Particularly rclovaut iil the present context seem tile works byFawcett and Hirst \[19861 and Kronfeld \[1986\].
The theory oulined in\[Fawcett & Ilirst 1986\] implies the existence of seven different read-ings of the sentence(5) Nadia wanls a tlog like Ross'sThose readings depend on three different parameters:I) Transparent (de re) vs. opaque (de dicto)II) Source of description (the agent, i.e.
Nadia, vs. the speaker)Ill) Time of application (present vs. future vs. repeated)We believe that only three readings are directly related to the infor-mational conleut of the sentence, since neither the source of thedescription, n(~r the time of applicatiou scent to be among the con-corns of the sentence itself.
For instance, leawcett and Hirst distin-guish betweeua) Transparent reading, agent's description(Nadia says "I want that dog, which is just like Ross's".
Thespeaker eports this as (5) perhaps without being familiar wilhRoss's dog)b) Transparent reading, speaker's description(Nadia says "I want that dog", and tbe speaker, who knowsRoss's dog, reports this as in (5)).The problem is that (5) does not seem to be concerned with whatNadir or the spe.
'tker know about Ross's dog; it only assumes that "adog like Ross's" is a description wtlid for the bearer of (5) so that itcan enable him to huild an internal representation of what Nadirwants.
On the other hand (5) ceaainly involves a description ofNadia's desires; taking this into account, a perspicuous representationshould be able to characterize those desires more precisely: DoesNadia wants a dog of a kind that casually happens Io be the samekind of Ross's dog?
Or the dog she wants must be of tlnlt kind justbecause it is the same kind of Ross's dog?
In other words howrelevant is the description?The relevance of descriptions eems to be one of the centralconcerns of the work described in \[Kronfeld 86\].
In that paper, acomputational model of reference is provided, and definite descrip-tions outside intensional contexts are considered.
Some examples are:s "The conslruction of spaces hould not be over-interpreted.
They are notrepresentations f realit!?
or of partial 'possible worlds'.
Ill particular, a belief space('Max believes ') is not a belief or state of belief; at most, it is a way of talk-ing about belief~7\[~conuier 85, p.15216 "The space lements are not referred to by expressions of language; they areset up, identified, etc., and may then be used for purposes of reference (or possiblypurported reference), tIowever, this distinction has an obvious and yet nontrivialconsequence: theories of refarence based on the use of language cannot bypass men-hal spaces; they will have to forsake Ihe idea of a direct link between linguistic strec-tares and referents aod take into account the important intennediate process of spaceconstruction".
\[Fauconnier 85, p.158\]379(6) Smith's murderer  is insane(7) The winner of the race will get $10000Let's consider ex.
(6): traditionally, "Smith's murderer" can be usedreferentially in ease the speaker "knows" who is the murderer; other-wise, it must be used attributively (i.e.
when "whoever he is" isappropriate) 7.
Note that, even in case the speaker does not have anyclue about the identity of the culprit, still the expression refers to asingle, well defined individual.
In fact, one of the accomplices of themurderer, after hearing a policeman say (6) on a TV interview, couldreport that as "Hey, Bob, he told that you are insane".
Analogously,the fact that no winner of the race exists yet does not mean that thereference in (7) is not definite or precise, since the "role" of winner isuniquely defined even when the race has not been run.
Again, if Fredwins, it is possible to report (7) telling him "You will get $10000".Notice, however, that in both examples the reports are correct but notprecise, since they fail to convey the "reason why" the thing reportedis true, So it seems to us that: in "attributive" readings there is a com-ponent of meaning concerning some kind of dependency (Causal-ity?)
8.
It is worth noting that this proposal is completely compatiblewith Barwise and Perry's.
In \[Barwise & Perry 83\], in case of attri-butive reading, the description must be evaltmted in all the situationswhich contain an individual who matches such a description.
Thatmeans that the assertion made about tiffs description must be relevantin all these situations.
This implicitly states that there is a sort ofdependency connection between the description and the assertion, andthat this connection is valid in all possible situations which contain anindividual satisfying the description.
What we aim to show is thatthe distinction between attributive and referential readings provides uswith an important criteriuna that also affects intensional readings.We believe that the two "opaque" readings we envisioned ear-lier are distinguished by means of the same "relevance" critefiumused above.
In classical exalnples as(8) Mary  wants a dogno relevance criterium can be applied because of the simplicity of thedescription.
In fitct, if Mary said "I want a nice and faithfol animal",either we assume that, for Mmy, the intension of "nice and f;tilbfulanimal" coincide with the intension of "dog" (i.e.
in all possibleworlds the two expressions denote the same set of individuals) or thereport is not accurate.
On the contrary, we could assume that "a doglike Ross's" is right only in this world (in any world she wants thesame kind of dog, which is the same as the kind of dog that Rossowns in this world) or in every world (whichever is the kind of dogRoss owns, in any world, Nadilt wants to have one of the same kind).Let's consider one more example to make the point clearer (see \[Fau-connier 85, pp.45-46\]):- George says: "The winne,' will go to Hong Kong"- The speaker assumes that "the winner" and "the best dancer" areequivalent descriptions (or "equal roles in the speaker's mentalspace" in Fauconnier's te,'ms)- The speaker says "George thinks the best dancer will go to HongKong"We claim that the speaker's report is incorrect (although sincere),contrarily to what Fauconnier assumes, because in an "attitude" con-text (as "thinks" in the present example and "wants" in the previouscase) what must be correctly modelled is the attitude of the agent.The speaker's description always has a subsidiary role: the one ofdescribing correctly the mental state of the agent.3.
LAYOUT OF THE SYSTEMTNs short section provides ome information about the overallorganization of the system which the semantic interpreter is a part of.The GULL (General Understander of Likely Languages) systemworks on the Italian language and is based on production fles.
Thesyntactic structures are represented as dependency trees, where allnodes, and not only the leaves are associated with surface words.
For7 What "knowing" means in the present context is not very clear.
If the speak-er determined the identity of tlSe murderer by finding his driving license near thecorpse and this is the only thing he knows about him, then it can safely be statedthat be "knows" who is the murderer, but still the only possible reading is the attri-butive one.s "Conversationally relevant use" in Kronfeld's terms.380each subtree-, the root represents the "head" of the constituent and itsimmediate subtrees are the "modifiers".
The syntactic production rulessay how the tree must be extended when a word of a given syntacticcategory is analyzed (for more details see \[Lesmo & Torasso 83, 85a,85b\]).As soon as the syntactic rules extend the tree, the control ispassed over to the semantic rules: they update the semantic represen-tation according to the meaning of the new piece of tree (in otherwords, syntax and semantics operate synchronously and theknowledge sources are separate).
Backtracking is not used: wheneverthe analysis is blocked, the current situation is inspected by anotherset of rules ("restructuring rules") that modify the dependency tree inorder to provide a new interpretation; then, the analysis is restarted onthe new tree.
Semantically ambiguous words that belong to the samesyntactic ategory ate disanthiguated on the basis of the local contextwhere they appear: no possibility of undoing the choice on the basisof a larger context is currently provided.
The antecedents of thesemantic rules pick up any newly entered word (the "current node ofthe tree") and match it, together with its surrounding context (i.e.
itsmother node and its dependants), against the domain knowledge,represented in terms of a KL-ONE-Iike semantic net, which fulfillsthe role of the terminological component in an hybrid knowledgerepresentation system.
The access to the net binds stone variablesappearing in the antecedent of the rules to nodes of the net (con-cepts), which are then used in the consequent o build up therepresentation that is going to be described.
Of course, the import ofnon-content words (as articles and quantifiers) is different from theone of content words.
In a previous paper \[Di Eugenio & Lesmo 87\]we described how the introduction of non-atomic nodes called tri-concepts enabled us to deal deterministically with definite andindefinite determiners.
Now, we will see how the problems aboutintensional contexts described before can be solved.
In parallel, weworked on quantifiers: some results have been presented in \[Lesmo etal.
88\].Tim semantic representation built by the interpreter consists intwo planes (CP: Content Plane; RP: Reference Plane).
A third planeis used in the drawings to refer to file stable dmnain knowledge (theterminological component mentioned above, called SP - SemanticPlane).
The CP includes a set of nodes and arcs that represent themain assertion and the description of the entities involved in thatassertion (i.e.
the restrictions imposed on them by prepositionalphrases, relative clauses, etc.).
The RP contains a set of non-atomicstructures called RASs (Reference Ambiguity Spaces) composed of aConcept node, an Extension ode, and a Class node (three aspects ofa "concepf' that are needed to establish the possible referent of alinguistic expression).
These structures will not be used often in thepresent paper, since they are mote concerned with the representationof articles.
A fourth node can be present in a RAS: it represents asubset of the extension and is used when a specific reading is chosenfor definite noun phrases.
On the contrary, since indefinite deter-miners are not used in class assertions, the Class node does notappear in RAS's associated with indefinite descriptions.
Each RAS islinked to the defining concept of the SP via a SEMREF (SEManticREFerence) arc.
Also in the CP there may appear complex structures(DAS: Distributivity Ambiguity Spaces): They contain two nodes (Setand Individuals) and are used to distinguish between distributive andcollective readings.
The arc which connects a node in the CP to itsassociated RAS in the RP is labelled SAME for definite NPs (it sim-ply states that the given node of the CP coincides with the referencenode in the RP), I-OF (Instance-OF) for indefinite ones.In order to simplify the figures, we will use the conventionsshown in fig.1.
Note that the initial representation (as shown in fig.l)will be augmented during the processing of the sentence if the NP hasspecifications (e.g.
adjectives, relative clauses etc.).
Thesespecifications are not directly linked to the CP node that refers to theentity but to another node connected to the RAS by a DEF-AS (orNAME, if the specification is a proper noun) arc 9.9 The introduction of a pair of nodes for a unique referent is justified by theneed of keeping apart he entity that partecipates in the main predication and the wayit is defined.4.
REPRESENTATION OF INTENSIONAI,  CON'FEXTSThe main extension to the work reported in \[Di Eugenio &Lesnro II'/l consists in the introduction of CONTEXT SPACES (CS),which enable us to treat the intensional contexts along the lines pro..posed in \[Fauconnier 85\].A Context Space is a subplane of the CP, which contains a setof nodes and of arc connecting them.
CS are created when particularconditimm occur ill tile input sentence, in our case the presence of anintensional verb.
In this case the CS is created and connected to thenode which represents the verb in the CP by a SP-BUtLD (SPace-BUILDer) arc.
The fact that the arc leaves a node representing anattitndin;d verb specifies (itnplicitly) the type of the CS lO and its gen-erator.
The nodes appearing in a CS refer to entities that do notnecessaril7 exist in the enter context (the CP itself is assumed tocorrespond to the otttennost context, i.e.
it contains terms that have tobe interptl;ted according to the speaker's view of reality, as expressedin the SP).
A node of a certain CS may refer to a local entity ill thatCS or to a counterpart in that CS of an entity of tile outer context.The COUNP (COUNmrPart) arc specifies the seeping of nodes in thesemantic representation: an mv COUNP that connects a node NI in aCS (say CS1) m another node (say N2) external to CS1 states that N2is a countt.
'tlxtrt of N1 (or, better, of the entity which NI refers to) inthe outer t;pace; on the contrary, a COUNP arc staldng from N1 andentering N1 itself specilies that NI has no counterparts h outer con-texts, i.e.
it refers to a local entity of space CS1.
The absence of aCOUNP ace leaving from NI represents art ambiguous case in whichtile scope of N1 has not been determined yet.
Such ambiguousrepresentation e able us, as we will later see in the paper, to developa determitfistic attalysis of sentences also in case of de-re or de-dictoambiguity,Let's show how these struclnres are nsed by means of some oftile previotts examples.
During the interpretalion of sentence (5) theanalysis of the fl'agntent "Nadia wttttls" leads to the creation of a newCS (CS1 in fig.2).
CS1 represents tbe "world of Nadia's desires asmentioned iu the sentence" and is linked to node N2 (instance of "towant") tlmmgh a SP-BUII.,D arc.
Node N3 represents what Nadiawanls as an instantiation of the "dog" concept and is introduced inCS1 when "a dog" is analyzed.
Up to this point, lhe representationmust be considered as atnbiguous, sitlce it does not specify which isfire status of N3 wilh respect Io the speaker's world.
In case nofurther processing is possible, then tile sentence remains ambiguous(fig.2 shows the basic ambiguous representation f sentence (5)) ;  inother cases, perhaps depending on the context where tile sentence isuttered, it could be possible to decide whether tile intended reading is10 Ill Ibis pallor we will only deal with "attialdinar' CS's.
Actually many oth-Er types of C~;'S may be used to cope with other kinds of linguistic pitettorttclta, Forexample a "temporal" CS may be used to deal with tile antbiguity of "In 1970, tilepresident met my sister", where "the preside~lt" could refer either te tile currentpresident or to file person who was president in 1970.
"de-m" or "de-dicto" (also preference criteria could be adopted; forinstance, it seems that, outside any specific context, the preferredreading of (5) is the intensional one); when such a disambiguation ispossible, then the representation is expanded by including a suitableCOUNP arc: it will leave fi'om node N3 and will enter node the samenode N3 iu case the reading is intensional, otherwise it will enter anewly-created node outside CSI (tile latter alternative is reported infig.3).
It is clear that it is the presence of node N8 that relates tlaerepresentation to tire existence (in the speaker's world) of a specificentity wanted by Nadia, contrarily to what happens in the intensionalreading, where no node (referring to a dog) existing outside CS1 islinked to N3.As stated above, two different "intensionar' readings can beobtained for sentence (5) depending on the relevance of tile descrip-tion.
The representation we obtained till now corresponds to thepurely referential l'eading of (5) (actually, this use of "l~eferential" isslighhy inappropriate, but the previous discussion should enable tilereader to intmpret it correctly).
If we want to represent the "attrihit-rive" reading we tnust add something to the Stl'tJcture; what we needis a specification of the "dependency" of the statement made throughthe utterance on the description used.
To this aim we include theWIl lS (WH-ever IS) arc, as shown in fig.4.
At this point, the importof this arc shotfld be clear.The proposed formalism enables the system to operate deter-ministically, i.e.
to build the liual representation without destroyingstrttctures built previously (this was one of the goals of the introduc-tion of tri-concepts, as explained in \[Di Eugenio & Lesmo 87\]).
Infact the system builds a basic ambiguous representation (as shown inlig.2 for sentence (5)) which is possibly expanded with the introduc-tion of new arcs when sotne disantbiguation is possible.
Of course,the insertion of suitable arcs does not modify the set of nodes initiallystored in the CS's, which remain stable (perhaps expanded)throughout he analysis.
As regards the disantbiguation criteria, itdoes not seem that there are general roles for choosing one interpreta-tion or tile o/her.
Of course, if the verb does not open an intensionalcontext, then no problem arises (the CS is not created) Jr; On the con-traly, if we consider a verb as "seek", it sectns that only the objectNP can provide the clues to select one particular reading; in "Mary isseeking a street", the preferred reading certainly is non-intensional; in"Mar5' is seeking a fl'iend" still seems to be preferable to assume theexistence of a ptu'ticular fliend; on the contraly, in "Mary is seeking aftmding" there seem 1o be few doubts thai the funding does not existyet.
We are currently trying to build heuristic roles, based on nominalhierarchies appearing in the terminological component of an hybridknowledge representatiott formalisnt, able to suggest a particular read-ing.
Moreover, subsequent sentences may provide further disantbi-guation criteria.
Consider the example in \[Fauconnier 851, peg.
57:(9) Ursula wants to marry  a ntillionaire.We nnty obtain different readings depending on the subsequent sen-tences:(t0) l ie  is really a eon-nlanleads to a de-re (referential) interpretation, while(11) But she won't  thld oneindicates a de-ditto reading tbr sentence (9).Concep~ T @P'~RAS ?odeExte\[lslon ~"NodePossible ~Sub.ExtensionDAS~~~'~'~, IndividualsC~'~.,'4..
* Atomic Node Node...... (l lotl-nnlbiguous)C#Fig,1 - Basic structures used in the representationA linal point concerns the use of the proposed representationin the subseqttent phase of irtterpretation.
Generally, the search for tilecorrect referent in the discourse history is led by the presence of aRAS in the RP and by its incoming (I-OF or SAME) and outcoming(a DEF-AS arc which connects it with the representation of thereferent's description) arcs.
An indefinite specific reference (forexatnple "a dog" in "a dog is eating meat") causes the creation of anew entity, since the assumption is that indefiuites are used when thereferent is not identitiable by the reader.
On the contrary definitespecilic reference (for example "the dog" in "the dog is eating meat")leads to the search.for the entity referred to into the discourse his-tory l:~n Actually, the verb of the sentence is exatnined in all cases, since tile pres-ence of some auxiliaries folx;es the creation of an intensional context; consider, foriastaoce: "You tllusl reserve a seat", "I will build a lable".
Of course, these verbs,when used in the past tense do not have any intensional characterization.l:~ Obviously, many other types of references are possible?
For a completeanalysis of referential problem connected with tile semantic of determiners ee \[DiEagenio & l~esmo 87\],381Let us see now the impact of the newly proposed extensionsonto this environment.
When a RAS is referred to by a node Nkthrough an 1-OF arc (indefinite specific reference) the possible pres-ence of Nk in a CS (say CS1) may be detected.
If this is the case,node Nk must be inspected: if it has a COUNP arc, pointing to anode of the external context, then the usual creation process is exe-cuted; otherwise Nk refers to an entity which is local to CS 1 and hasno counterparts in the external worid.
So we need an interpretationwhich blocks any infet~ence on the entity associated to the node in theexternal world.
This result can be obtained by copying the whole CSin the Iinal network representing the discourse history, and so bidingits internal node to the external context.Let us specify now the interpretation of the WHIS arc.
Asstated above, when a RAS is refetTed to by a node Nk through aSAME arc (definite specific reference), an entity satisfying thedescription (represented by a Nj node of the CP connected to theRAS through a DEF+AS arc) is searched for in the discourse historynetwork.
In fact, in this case, we only have to cope with "the func-tional relevancy of the description" \[Kronfeld 86\] (i.e.
its ability toconvey infolxnation leading to the identification of the correctreferent).
But what does it happen if we also have to account forconversational relevancy, i.e., what is the interpretation if a WHIS arcconnecting the description ode Nj to the node Nk exists?
In thiscase the usual searching for the referent is delayed.
Both node Nkand its description (represented by the WHIS ate and by the subnet ofCP whose head is Nj) are entered in the discourse history network.In this way the description itself becomes part of the final representa-tion of the sentence (as stated in \[Barwise & Perry 83\]).
Moreoverthe presence of an arc WHIS in the final network states that the nodeentered must not be considered as the referent of the sentence hutrather as a "role" (see \[Fauconnier 85\]) which may assume differentvalues in different worlds (i.e.
in different CS's).
In fact, differentreferents for the descriptiort may be detected by the usual searchingprocess in the CS's and this leads to different inferences (differentassignments of referents to the "role").NAME8~7~PrROSS-'qEJFig.2 -Basic ambiguous representation of the sentence "Nadia wants a dog like Ross's".SP-BUII_D ~ X  ~N~j ~ .
.
.
.
L,KE j(.bFig.3 -Representation in the CP of thetransparent reading of the sentence"Nadir wants a dog like Ross's"~lP N ~  T8p-.
_  k .
.
.
.
- - - - , , ,?mWHIS N4@Fig.4 -Representation in the CP ofthe opaque attributive reading of thesentence "Nadia wants a dog like Ross's.382A final remark is needed: for the sake of simplicity we statedthat the relevancy of tile description must be detected uring theanalysis of the input sentence, independently from the subsequentinterpretation process.
Actually the strategy of the system is quitemore flexible, because also the interpretation process, merging tilesemantic representation f the sentence and the discourse history net-work, supplies further information about the relevancy of a givendescription.
For example, when the sentence does not includesufficient information to choose between referential and attributivereading), the absence in the discourse history of a referent litting thedescription (detected uring tile final process of interpretation) forcesan attributive reading.5.
CONCLUSIONSWe have described a semantic network formalism that is ableto cope wifll the problems arising when NP's occur as objects ofverbs inducing an intensional context.
The mp,esentation preserves inan easily a,-cessible format all information needed to distinguishamong the lU)ssible readings, and the construction of tile net can becarried on ({eterministically (see the discussion of paragraph 3 andnote that di:~ambiguating among different readings only consists inadding arcs to existing subnets), llowever, some problems till haveto be solved concerning the final representation btained by the pro-cess of mew, ing the meaning of the sentence under analysis with thediscourse hi~tory.
Actually, the "assertional" cmnponent of hybridlortnalisms (see, for-instance, \[Brachman et al 83\]) does rtot lenditself to handling intensional objects created uting.~he analysis.
Asstated above, we have structured the assel,ional component providingfacilities for copying the subnetworks containing the description ofintensional entities into it.
On tire other hand, some work still has tobe made in {,rdcr to provide such a component with a clear semantics.We believe that basic insights can be found in the SNePS system\[Maida & Shapiro 821, \[Shapiro & Rapaport 86\], where the proposedorganization meet,s more clearly the requirements set forth by theexistence o1' intensional olrjects.The version of the interpreter described in this paper is imple-mented in FRANZ LISP and runs on a SUN workstation under theUNIX operating system.
The maintenance of tim discourse historyand the merging process is currently under implementation.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThis work has partially been fimded by tile Ministem dellal'nbblica Istmzione of Italy, within the project "Software Architec-tures for lntdligent Systems".
We must thank Kai von Luck and hiscolleagues of the Technische Universitaet Berlin, for having put atour disposal BACK, a hybrid Knowledge representation systemwhose terminological component has been used to implement theSemantic Plane.
The second author (Paolo Terenziani) acknowledgesRegione Piemonte, Progetto Finalizzato Sanita', that provided thefunds for his Research Assistantship.REFERENCES\[Barwise & Peny 83\] l.Barwise, J.Perry: Situations and Attitudes.MIT Press (1983).\[Brachman et al 83\] R.J.Brachman, R.E.Fikes, H.J.Levesque: KRYP-TON: Integrating Terminology and Assertion.
Proc.
AAAI-83,Washington, D.C. (1983) 31-35.\[Cooper 83\] R.Cooper: Quantification and Syntactic Theory.D.Reidel Publ.
Co. (1983).\[Di Eugenio & Lesmo 87\] B.Di Engenio, L.Lesmo: Representationand Interpretation of Determiners in Natural Language.
Proc.lOth IJCAI, Milano (1987) 648-654.\[Dowty et al 81\] D.R.Dowty, R.E.WalI, S.Peters: Introduction toMontague Semantics.
D.Reidel Publ.
Co. (1981).\[Fauconnier85\]G.Faueonnier:MentalSpaees.
MITPress (1985).\[Fawcett & Hirst 86\] B.Fawcett, G.Hirst: The Detection andRepresentation of Ambiguities in kntension and l)escription.Proc.
24th Annual Meeting of the AcL; New York (1986) 192-199.\[Kro,ffeld 86\] A.Kronfeld: Donnellan's Distinction and a Colnpnta-tional Model of Reference.
Proc.
24th Annual Meeting of theACL, New York (1986) 186-191.\[Lesmo & Torasso 83\] L.Lesmo, P.Torasso: A Flexible NaturalLanguage Parser Based on a Two-level Representation f Syn-tax:.
Proe.
1st Meeting of European Chapter of ACL, Pisa(1983) 114-121.\[Lesmo & Torasso 85a\] L.Lesmo, P,Torasso: Amdysis of Conjunc-tions in a Rule-based Parser.
Proe.
23rd Annual Meeting ofACL, Chicago (1985) 180-187.\[Lesmo & Torasso 85b\] L.Lesmo, P.Torasso: Weighted Interaction ofSyntax and Semantics in Natural Language Analysis.
Proe.
9thIJCAI, Los Angeles (1985) 772-778.\[Lesmo et al 88\] L.Lesmo, M.Berfi, P.Terenziani: A Netwm'k For-realism for Representing Natural Language Quantifiers.
1'roe.ECAI 88, Muenchen (August 1988).\[Lewis 72\] D.Lewis: General Semantics.
In D.Davidsnn, GHarman:Setnantics of Natural Language.
D.Reidel Publ.
Co. (1972)169-218.\[Maida & Shapiro 82\] A.S.Maida, S.C.Shapiro: \[ntensional Conceptsin Propositional Semantic Networks.
Cognitive Science 6 (1982)291-330.\[Shapiro & Rapaport 86\] S.C.Shapiro, W.J.Rapaport: SNePS Con-sidered as a Fully Intensional Propositional Semantic Network.Proc.
AAAI-86, Philadelphia (1986) 278-283.383
