A COOPERATIVE YES-NO QUERY SYSTEM FEATURING DISCOURSE PARTICLESKjell Johan S/EB~Seminar fiJr nattJrllch-sprochllche SystemeT iJblngen*andNorges allmennvltenskopellge forsknlngsr~dAbstractCooperative dialog systems will offer extended answersto questions, that is, they will volunteer informationnot expl ic i t ly  asked for.
A complete response will becomplex and the member sentences will evince an ex-tensive parallel, the indirect answer substitut ing analternative for a focus in the question.
Research ondiscourse particles has shown that they are necessaryto ensure coherence between adjacent sentences evin-cing an extensive parallel, that is, that they reflectdiscourse relations as given in complex answers, sothat such answers emerge as core contexts.
Thus theproper mode of representation for discourse particlesin a system coincides with the framework of coopera-t ive question-answering.
The PASSAT system centerson the r61e of particles in characterizing and reflec-t ing relations such as underl ie complex response.Discourse Particle SemanticsDiscourse particles are meta expressions in a naturallanguage: They express discourse relations, which arenecessary properties of (complex) discourses, that is,they refer to things in the language and not to thingsin the world.
It follows that they do not influencet ruth  conditions.
Instead, they affect coherence:When occurring in a complex discourse such thatthe discourse relation "contradicts" its meaning,a discourse particle may cause incoherence.
?Edison Invented the telegraph.Marconi also invented the phonograph.Conversely, discourse particles can cause coherencetoo: When one does not occur in a complex discoursesuch that the discourse relation "entails" its meaning,an incoherence comes about which the occurrencewould prevent.
What causes that incoherence is theoccurrence of the empty, or zero, par t i c le .So nonempty particles are sometimes necessary toreflect discourse relations, in other words, theysubstitute positive for  negative presuppositions.
?Edison Invented the telegraph.He invented the phonograph.And, those presuppositions do not refer to the worldbut to the environment of discourse.
On a classicalt ruth  presupposit ion, enriched by a sensit iv i ty tocontext, the empty particle in the example presupposesthat Edison did not invent the telegraph.
But then, hein fact did not, so the incoherence is not explained.Similarly, on classical terms the particle in the formerexample presupposes that Marconi invented thetelegraph, but then, he in fact did.
* The paper Is based on research done In the projectL/LOG, financed and supervised by IBM Germany.So discourse particles, empty or not, react not towhat is or is not the case but to what is or is =lotsupposed to be the case: To the context.
The propercontext category for the discourse particle rategoryi s  a complex sentence: A sentence pair.
Any twosentences in sequence occasion the empty or  somenonempty discourse particle in f ront  of or withirl thesecond sentence.
Thus a language in a model theoryo f  discourse particles will consist in a pair:L=<SP,  DP>SP is a set of sentence pairs sp, the individual con ~stants, and DP is a set of discourse particles dp in-c lud ing  the empty particle dpO, the predicates; andfo r  any dp and sp, dp(sp) ,  the application of dp onsp, is to represent the occurrence of dp in sp.
Aninterpretation rule is to state a necessary conditionfor the coherence of any dp(sp) in terms of ti lemeaning of sp and the meaning of dp.
Thus themodel in the theory will consist in a tr ip le:M = < DR , S , h >DR is a set of discourse relations, # is ,~n assignm~n?
;mapping constants, i .e.
sentence pair~, onto member':,o f  DR, and I~ is an interpretation mapping predicate;:,i .e.
discourse particles, onto subsets o~ DR.
The, d~,-notation of any element of DP dp is defined as Lhe s~of discourse relations b(dp) .
The interpre'~tion rtd.,:.states that for any sp, dp, dp(sp) is only coherentif S(sp) is not an element of b(dp')  for any dr 'di f ferent from dp.It is assumed that the denotations of the discou~'.,;eparticles - the elements of the picture of DP under'h - are all disjunct, i .e.
that for any dp l ,  dp2.
inDP, the intersection of P (dp l )  and P(dp2) is empty.Thus for any sp and dp such that ~e(sp) is in P(dp) ,dp ' ( sp)  is incoherent for any dp' di f ferent from dp~This means that a sentence pair instantiaUng a di~ rcourse relation that belongs to the denotation of aparticle is only coherent if occasioning the parUcle,in other words, that a particle is necessary wi~hrespect to every discourse relation in its denota-~ion.As  DP contains the empty particle dpO, this principlecorresponds to a negative presupposition.So there are discourses necessitating this particleor other in v i r tue of the relations they instantiate.A discourse relation is an abstraction on the v~ay thetwo members of the sentence pair compare to eachother.
Any two sentences can be segmented into aCOl~rt, a depart, and a report, meaning the portioncommon to both sentences, the dist inct portion of ~tt~f i rst  sentence, and the dist inct portion of tile secondsentence.
The common denominator of discourserelations in the denotation of any nonempty particle i~that the de- and the report are minimal: That the twosentences di f fer  in only one description.
Discoursesnecessitating nonempty particles are characterizedby  an extensive parallel.
Importantly,  polar i ty549change does not count as a de- or a repart  butserves as an extra parameter to di f ferent iatespecific discourse relation classes.Marconi Invented the telegraph,?
(but) he didn't Invent the phonograph.Discourse relations encode information on two otherparameters: Whether the de- and the repart  are in asemantic relation (scalar i ty or hyponymy) such thatone sentence entails the other (negation exempt),  and,if so, whether entailment is le f t - to - r ight  or reversely,and if not, whether they are in a semantic relation(exclusion) such that one sentence entails the negationof the other,  or the two sentences are compatible.These four features - polar i ty  d istr ibut ion accountsfor  two - give rise to sixteen cases, thirteenprov id ing slots for  German discourse particles:/<C,D>/?\+<C,R> sogor/> </ und zwar-<C,R> abet+<C,R> also-<C, R> contradiction/ *<C,R> contradictionv^ < v ~< -<C,R> also*<C,R> auch^-<C,R> abet~.+<C,R> ober~-<C,R> ouchV^+<C,R> sondern-<C,R> ouch\ > / +<C,R> contradict ion >< / ~ -<C,R> erst recht\ +<C,R> aber-<C, R> elnmol/OberhauptC = copart,  D = depart ,  R =repar t ;* / -  = pos i t ive/negat ive polar i ty ;>< = depart  and repart  are ordered:> = R>D (*<C,R> entails *<C,D>),< = R<D (?<C,D> entails +<C,R>);v^ = depart  and repart  are not ordered:v = D and R exclude each other(*<C,D> entails -<C,R>),^ = D and R do not exclude each other(*<C,D> and *<C,R> are compatible).Complex Response: The Basic DP SituationIt is desirable to equip a computer system to executethe semantic theory sketched above.
There are severalpossible approaches to this,  but one embodies decisiveadvantages.
That is a part icu lar  generative approach.It is a cornerstone of the theory that discourseparticles not only introduce requirements on contextsbut also have a communicative necessity; that contextsrequire them in that the nonoccurrence can be asdamaging to coherence as can the occurrence.
Inrepresenting the model in an automatic process itis especially desirable to capture this aspect.One way to go is to have a program test surface-language inputs and give notices of er ror  wheneverincoherence occurs.
On this course, every piece ofinformation is produced by the user, who must beacquainted with the theory in order  to obtain aninterest ing reaction.
Or one can have a programgenerate particles in accordance with the syntaxand semantics of the contexts it generates.Again, there are more than one way to go: Theinput can be of a general nature, e.g.
a descriptionof a discourse relation, or it can be specific, e.g.a pair  of discourse representation structures.
Eitherway, the user has to specify the context unit to begenerated, a complex discourse with a parallel,as long as she addresses it d i rect ly  at some level.However, once such contexts are embedded in acommunicative setting to motivate them independent ly,there is no need to prescr ibe anything.
There isanother, Indirect generat ive approach which promisesspontaneous and systematic generation of propercontexts,  and an interest ing application: Dialogsystems capable of cooperative question answering.This is an independently motivated field of researchin Art i f ic ial  Intell igence and in ComputationalLinguist ics,  seeking to simulate that crucial featureof human dialog behavior that answers are far  fromalways formed in str ict  accordance with the semanticstructure of the question.
Frequently in actualconversation, answerers are expected to elaborate, inpart icu lar  on a yes or a no.
A realistic yes-no querysystem will be prepared to offer additional informationin the form of extended answers, and several systemsin this sp i r i t  have recently been devised.As it happens, complex responses are key contextsfor  discourse particles.
A complete response consistsin a sentence sequence.
This means that the propercontext category for  particles is given a pr ior i  inthis framework.
Moreover, the context unit as such,a con~plex discourse with an extensive parallel,  isgiven as well because a simple response is inadequatejust  in case corresponding information on a relevantalternative to a focus in the query  is available to theresponder.
As far as wh- questions are concerned,the focus coincides with the wh- position.
As regardsyes-no questions, it may be any item suitable as adepart  in a part ic le scheme.
It is adequate, then, tosupplement the simple response by  the correspondinginformation.
The sentence frame of the question car-ries over  from the direct to the indirect  answer asthe focus (and possibly polar i ty  too) is exchanged.
(Occasionally, the focus (depart)  is empty so thatthe alternat ive ( report )  adds a piece of information,typ ica l ly  an adjunct . )
Thus complex response createsdiscourse relations such as necessitate discourseparticles in a systematic way and on independentgrounds.
It may be considered the basic situationof utterance for discourse particles.550There is consensus that an extension to a response isappropr iate if and only if the information it conveysis relevant.
The challenge consists in defining whatconstitutes relevance in each single case.
It is aprime desideratum to develop general guidelines forselecting alternatives.
Relevant means relevant to thegoal of the dialog, and any sensible approch will takeGrice's Maxim of Quantity as a point of departure:Make your  contr ibut ion as informative as is requiredfor the current  purpose of the exchange.
There arevarious ways of exploi t ing this pr inciple.
One is torelate information to the assumed practical purpose ofthe query  so as to suggest surrogate courses of actionin case the direct  answer is negative.
Such a strategyis pursued by KAPLAN (1983).
Alternat ives will beidentif ied on the basis of a functional synonymy:- Do you hove a rnatchl- No, but  I hove a l ighter .Another approach, adopted by JOSHI et al (1984),is to focus on world knowledge so as to correct falsedefault inferences licensed by the direct  answer bystating exceptions to normal courses of events.Alternat ives wi l l  be identif ied by  way of stereotypes:- Is Tweety a blrd~- Yes, but  he cannot f ly .In the theory of scalar conversat ional  Impl lcature,applied to quest ion-answering by HIRSCHBERG (1985),the Maxim of Quant i ty is revised to refer to thes t rength  of an utterance: Make the strongest relevantclaim just i f iable by evidence.
The concept of relevanceremains, but  it is anchored to l inguist ic knowledge bya semantic relation: Strength as surfacing in scalarity.~;uch a strategy embodies two clear advantages:A stronger version of a question, whether posit ive ornegative, cannot rationally be known to the questionerin advance; and, the search for a stronger versioncan be guided by rules which must be represented ina reasonably intel l igent system anyhow, namely,lexical relations and meaning postulates.Semantic scales are defined by tuples of lexical itemsl inearly ordered by entailment.
Consider as an examplethe pair  possible and probable and a query  Is Itpossible or Is It  probable for some proposit ion I t ,and assume the adjective to be the focus.
The answerno to the former question will answer the other onetoo, as will the answer yes to the latter question.The answer yes to the former question will not, norwill the answer no to the latter,  yet a responder isrequired to make the strongest  relevant claim, andprovided the other item counts as relevant,  thereis a stra ightforward way to do so:- Yes, It  Is even probable.- No, It  Is not even possible.In fact, if the maxim is revised to require theresponder to assess the strongest relevant proposit ion,two more responses emerge as adequate, again on thecondition that the other item counts as relevant:- Yes, but  It  Is not probable.- No, but  i t  Is possible.In a wider sense, semantic scales are defined bytuples of lexical items arranged by entailment in ahierarchy of set inclusion and exclusion.
Consider asan example the quadruple Scandinavian, Danish, Nor-wegian, and Swedish, and queries Is /t Scand/nav/anetc.
for some referent I t ,  and assume the adjective tobe  the focus.
The answer no to the f i rst  quest ion willanswer all the other questions too, as will the answeryes to any subsequent question.
The converse is notthe case, yet a responder is required to make thestrongest relevant claim, and provided the other itemscount as relevant,  there is a stra ightforward way:- Yes, Cand In fact).
Danish~Norwegian~Swedish.- No, (but~ Norwegian~Swedish~~Danlsh/Swed/sh/ /Dan/sh/Norweg/on.- No, not Seandlnov/an at all.The proviso was made that the other items count asrelevant,  as the responses were given on the maxim"Assert/assess the strongest proposit ion relevant".Note, however, that a certain measure of relevance issecured by the circumstance that that proposition isnot the strongest proposition as such, correspondingto a contradict ion, or just any strong proposit ion,but one among a limited number stronger than another,in fact, exact ly one as polarities go, correspondingto a (true) sentence entail ing the question suppliedwith a sign and obtained by exchanging one item.So a l ink is established between the direct and theindirect  answer pr ior  to relevance considerations.Relevant alternat ive candidates are selected on thebasis of independently accessible l inguist ic knowledge.The relevance question is reduced from What is rele-vant?
to Is th/s relevant?
;  the discovery procedureis transformed into a decision procedure, and thisprocess is low-level and domain- independent.Items that are interconnected by a semantic relationsuch as scalar ity and hyponymy seem to tend to bemutually relevant so that irrelevance cases can beconsidered exceptions to the rule.
It is not impossiblethat the assessment of a higher value is i r re levantonce a value is confirmed or that the assessment ofa lower value is uninterest ing once a value is denied,but it is as improbable as it is that items arr ivedat on more pragmatic considerations are i rrelevant.Likewise, one cannot exclude that the confirmation of,say, a subkind once a superkind is confirmed or theconfirmation of a s isterkind or the denial of a super-kind once a natural kind is denied is uninterest ing,but one can th ink it equally improbable.
So regular ly- by  default  - when there is a scale or a hierarchyaround the item in question, all items in that scaleor h ierarchy will enter into the set of propositionsat issue, then on meaning postulates, defining theinterrelat ionships in terms of entailment, one al-ternat ive can be identif ied as the informative in de-pendence on the distr ibut ion of polarit ies in that set.With reference to the parametric discourse relationsand particles paradigm presented above, the sl<etchedcases of complex response cover f ive relation classes.Each of these is strongly motivated in ti le frameworkof cooperative response insofar as any complex answerpatterned on it is appropr iate in principle.
Given aquery  <C,D> where D is the focus, any complexresponse +/ - , * / -<C,R> where R is an alternativesuch that the parameters are chosen accordingly- and t ru th fu l l y  - is basically adequate.When moving upward on a scale, in case the strongerstatement is ver i f ied,  the part ic le sogar applies;otherwise, if it  is falsi f ied, the part icle aber.When moving downward on a scale, in case the weakerstatement is ver i f ied,  the part ic le abet applies again;otherwise, if it is falsi f ied, the part ic le elnmel.When moving d6wnward in a hierarchy and the state-ment is ver i f ied,  the specification part icle und zwarapplies.
When moving upward and the statement isfalsif ied, the part ic le i Jberhaupt applies.
Finally,moving sideways to ver i fy ,  sondern is the particle.551The PASSAT SystemThe t iny  database query system PASSAT, consistingin one PROLOG II program comprising approximately100 clauses, is designed to demonstrate a register ofrules regulating choices, of alternatives to lexicalitems and of particles of discourse, in accordancewith semantic relations and in terms of polar i ty.
Itis devised to imitate a natural performance in threerespects :- Qual i ty ,  the search for the true response;- Quant i ty ,  the quest for the exhaustive response -information on a relevant alternative;- Coherence, the search for the discourse particle;and lexical entailments underl ie all three aspects.So while the system is pr imari ly intended as ani l lustration of a facet of centerpiece functions ofGerman discourse particles, it is at the same time asmal l  but systematic model of complex responsepr inc ip led on independently available knowledge.PASSAT exploits a sortal hierarchy of natural kindsand a scalar structure of ranked items to arr ive  atrelevant alternative data and to select appropriatediscourse particles to br idge the gaps, borrowing itsterminology and database facts from shipping.
Suchcomputations rely on a var iety  of modules:- Lexicon.
Here, semantic relations between and amonglexical items, such as sortal sameness, "antonymy"(Dis junct iv i ty:  Difference and sortal sameness),hyponymy, intersect iv i ty  (cross concepts, un i t ingd i f ferent-sort  items), "synonymy" (comparabil ity in astr ict sense), and scalarity, are designated anddefined in their  own terms.- Meaning postulates,  where semantic relationsintroduced in the lexicon are defined and interpretedby entailment, that is, in terms of (necessary)polar i ty in view of the sentence context.- A l ternat ive  relat ions,  stating conditions on whichone item constitutes an alternat ive to another interms of lexical relations and (simple) polar i ty  inview of the sentence context.- Part ic le relat ions,  stating sufficient conditionsfor the output of a certain particle in terms ofalternat ive relations and (simple) polar i ty  in viewof the sentence context.- Response ru les,  evaluat ing original queries andperceived and received substitute queries(alternatives in the sentence context) in terms ofdatabase facts or meaning postulates.- Knowledge bose, containing the minimal amountof pr imit ive fact (no facts that are deducible fromother facts on meaning postulates), representing(predominantly posit ive) polar i ty.
{ dampfschl f f ,  motorschl f f ,  segelschl f f  }{ schraubendampfer,  r a ~ d a m p ~{ bark ,  b r lgg ,  schoner,  vo l l sch l f f  }This is one of the two sortal hierarchies PASSAT isacquainted with.
Questions to be understood byPASSAT are of the form- I s t  x P?where x is an individual name (that of a ship) and Pis a predicate, e.g.
a common noun, so throughout itis a question of a constant's membership in a set.First answers (ja or neln) are by a large measurecalculated by way of meaning postulates defined onlexical relations like hyponymy or antonymy, and thesesame relations go in turn to compute second answers.Once a f i rst  response is found, PASSAT goes on toseek alternatives: Provided that answer was yes, itseeks to enhance the specificity of the predicate,e.g.
to restr ict  the set denoted by the noun bymoving downward in the sortal hierarchy:- Ist fo r tuna  segelsch l f f l- Jo, und zwor bark .I n  case polar i ty  is negative in the f i rst  run, thesystem seeks to increase informativ i ty by e.g.searching for the set to which the individual doesbelong (moving sideways in the sortal h ierarchy):- Ist preclosa bark?- nein,  sondern br lgg .These two basic principles are enriched and extendedby a recurs lve mechanism: As soon as an alternativeto the subject of interrogation has been determined,the search goes on for  an alternative to that alter-native, entering into the rble of the subject ofinterrogation, and so on:- Ist  concordla dampfsch l f f l- neln,  sondern segelschi f f ,  und zwar schoner.I I I I- Ist p rudent la  schoner?- neln,II~berhaupt  n lcht  segelschl f f ,~ J  rsondern dampfschl f f  ,Iund zwar raddampfer.On the other hand, PASSAT is acquainted with an-other hierarchy too.
The concept ship is subdividedon two equivalent points of view, the locomotion andthe function :{ f rachtsch l f f ,  possaglerschl f f ,  spezla lschl f f}\[ tanksch l f f ,  schi J t tgutschl f f ,  stt Jckgutschl f f  }552And composites are introduced which combine thesetwo hierarchies: For a constant to be a member ofsuch a set, it  must belong to both sets denoted bythe two components:{ f rachtdompf er , I~ssoglerdompf  er  , motortonker  IAnd here, a context sensi t iv i ty  inside the complexanswer has been installed (by  means of an extravar iable position in the al ternat ive relations) topermit a second and a th i rd  a l ternat ive to the f i rs tanswer to be stalled until  the sequences of " lower-level" alternatives to the second and th i rd  answers( f i rs t  and second alternatives) are exhausted, to bereaddressed with bocktrock lng:- /st p rudent io  motortonker?- neln,soneer, ch,rr.
/und zwor roddompfer ,  \tund ouch n lcht  tonksch l f f ,Ii Jberhoupt n lcht  f rochtsch l f f ,Isondern possoglerschl f f ,also possoglerdompfer.- /st poseidon possoglerdompfer l- neln,zwor dampfsc~if f ,  Iund zwor schroubendompfer ,  \ober n lcht  possoglerschl f f ,Isondern f rochtsch l f f ,Iund zwor s t i Jckgut f rachter  ,elso f rochtdompfer .The conditions under which a cross-concept l ikef rochtdompfer  is an (ultimate) alternat ive to anotherare rather complex insofar as it requires numeroussteps to come to a conclusion as to whether to drawa conclusion by use of Mso (approximating Englishso).
It depends on the arrangement of both of thetwo intersected kinds, in casu, dompfschl f f  andf rochtsch l f f ,  in relation to the other pair ,  say,motorschl f f  and tonksch l f f  unit ing to motortonker .- /st pose/don motortonker?- neln,n lcht  motorschl f f  ,sondern dompfsch/ f f ,und zwm' schroubendompfer  ,und ouch n lcht  tonksch l f f ,sondern st i Jckgut f rachter .Thus f rochtdampfer  is no alternat ive to motortankerbecause the two corresponding component kindstonksch l f f  and f rochtsch l f f  are downward specific (theformer is more specific than the lat ter) ,  whereas theconverse is not the case - motortonker does form analternat ive to f rochtdompfer  as f rochtsch l f f  andtonkschl f f  are upward specific; the latter is morespecific than the former.\[ gest rondet , gescheltert  \]This is one of two scales known to PASSAT.
Again,comprehehsible queries are of the form Is?
x P?
wherex is an individual  name and P a predicate, but thistime the predicate is not a common noun but a (per-fect part ic iple) intransit ive verb.
Once a pr imaryanswer is given to a query ,  a search starts for" analternat ive answer once over,  and given a posit ivepr imary response, the system seeks, again, to en-hance the specif ic ity of P, only now not by seekingto restr ict  the set by  downward movement with re-spect to a h ierarchy but by upward movement onthe scale, to assess the next value i r respect ivelyof whether it is val id or not:- /st precloso gest rondet l- /o, sogor gescheitert .- /st fo r tune  gestrondet?- Jo, ober n lcht  gescheitert .Given a pr imary answer with polar i ty  negative,however, as before, PASSAT tries to increase theinformation value nevertheless through strengtheningthe statement, but not by searching for confirmationsideways or a more comprehensive denial upward in ahierarchy,- /st prudent /o  schoner?- neln,  f Jberhoupt n/cht sege/sch/ff ,  sonderndompf schl f f  .
.
.but  by assessing the next value in the downwarddirection on the scale induced by the verb:- Ist fo r tune  gescheltert?- neln,  abet gestrondet .- Ist  fel lc lo gescheltert?- neln,  n lcht  elnmol gestrondet .Now there is another scale known to the system:\ [gekenter t  , gesunken \]And the two scales are associated with one another ina structure which presents a pragmatic case of alter-nat iv i ty  (the only one in the system).
More precisely,the items gekentert  and gestrandet  are in a symmetric.re lat ion termed syn as a pseudo-synonymy case, withthe consequence (and purpose) that in case the -pr imary or secondary - answer to either one of thelower values - as a query  or a lternat ive - isnegative - in the f i rs t  or the second instance, andthe answer to the other lower value is posit ive, thenthat other lower value is treated as an alternative,on the consideration that in view of the higher goalof the query ,  i.t will be of interest:- Ist concordla gestrondet?- neln,  wohl ober gekenter t ,  sogor gesunken.- Ist  concordlo gescheltert?- nein,  n lcht  elnmol gestrondet ,wohl ober gekenter t ,  sogor gesunken.553LimitationsThe test of any natural- language system, whethergenerative or interpretat ive,  is in its measure ofgeneral i ty or f lex ib i l i ty ,  in its aptness for expansionand extension in various dimensions.
As far as thepresent program is concerned, these dimensions canbe identified with a range of l inguistic modules:Morphology (1), lexicon (2), syntax (3), semantics(4), and pragmatics (5).
( I )  Deliberately, no morphology has been bui lt  intothe system.
Relevant items would have been (a) theindefinite article (e/n), (b) gender variants (e ln/-e)and (c) coherent forms (ke ln/ -e) .
These refinementsare omitted in order not to pay undue complexity tosuch inessentials, though the implementation would befeasible.
(2) The lexical items and relations are not casuisticin the sense that they are unrepresentative ofhierarchies and scales in German.
Parallel structurescan be added or substituted without di f f iculty.
Only,real hierarchies and scales do not exist in isolationbut in integration in a taxonomic superstructure.
Oneproblem is that a concept (e.g.
sch/ff) may be opento specification in sequence (e.g.
Ja, und zwor segel'-schlff ,  und zwar vo/Ischiff) ,  another is that a con-cept (e.g.
schiff)  may be open to specification intwo directions (e.g.
\]o, und zwer possaglerschlff undmotorschlff) .
Before the concept sch/ff enters intoPASSAT in the obvious way, a method must be de-veloped to determine how far and which way relevanceis to reach in each case in view of the user's interest.
(3) Deliberately, only a minimal syntax has been builtinto the system.
This is, again, to accentuate thecentral principles, but more to not create theimpression that interesting syntax problems have beensolved.
Thus the rules of ellipsis have not beenexplored.
PASSAT uses total ellipsis throughout =though not on del iberation, but by necessity.
It couldinstead use partial ellipsis discriminately to put outanswers like neln, zwer /st s/e eln x, und zwer eln y,abet s/e /st ke/n z, s/e /st iJberhaupt kein u, sonderne/n v = yet it would still do so not by f i r s tgenerating and then reducing complete structures butby producing those strings bl indly.
{4) The system suffers a serious shortcoming in notassessing the lexical relations in meaning postulatesand alternative relations in terms of the sentencecontext semantic structure.
By accident, predicates(common nouns or verbs) occur in predicative positionwith the copula throughout,  so the semantic relationinvar iably comes to the surface.
As soon as contextsare introduced where the noun e.g.
serves to restr ictquantif ication over a b inary relation, or,  as asimplification, it is an argument of a b inary relation,as in hat fortunotus e/ne br igg (compatible withfortunetus hot elne bark) ,  the relation ceases tocarry semantic relevance, and the system must con-sider some semantic representation to judge whethermeaning postulates and alternative relations apply.
(5) The pragmatic open problem lies in where thefocus lies, more exactly,  to which component of thequestion any alternative can be considered relevantin particle terms, what part is the plausible departin the f i rst  instance.
At the current  state of thesystem, the focus is located once and for all in theone-place predicate P, yet it is a commonplace thatyes-no questions are systematically ambiguous insofaras their  topic-focus structure has consequences forwhat constitutes a proper substitute, namely, asentence where the topic stays the same and the focuschanges.
Thus it could be that a question l ike Istconcordla elne bark is intended to, in the event of anegative response, elicit not a continuation likesondern eln schoner but an extension l ike oberfortuno Ist elne - for example, in case the higher goalof the query is to ascertain that there is a barkavailable for a higher purpose still.
In principlethere are means in a language to posit focus, andthose means may be syntactical, l ike word order orclefting.
Such are not, however, available toPASSAT, being a German-interfaced system, sowithout the phonology Germans use it is necessaryto exploit  a memory of past exchange, so as toaddress the higher goal of the query direct ly.ReferencesHIRSCHBERG, J.
(1985) A Theory of ScalerImpllcoture.
Univ.
of Pennsylvania diss.JOSHI, A./B.WEBBER/R.WEISCHEDEL.
(1984)"Preventing False Inferences", in Proceedingsof COLING 18tI.KAPLAN, J.
(1983) "Cooperative Responses from aPortable Natural Language Database Query System".in Brady/Berwick (eds.)
:  Computational Models ofDiscourse, Cambridge, Mass.
: MIT Press, 167-208.SP~B~, K.J.
(1988) A Model for Discourse Particles.LILOG Report n, Stuttgart :  IBM.554
