Directing the Generation of Living Space DescriptionsPenelope SIBUNDepartment of Computer & Information ScienceUniversity of MassachusettsAmherst, MA 01003 USAAlison K. HUETTNERDepartment of Comparative Literature & LanguagesHofstra UniversityHempstead, NY 11550 USADavid D. MCDONALDBrattle Research Corporation55 Wheeler StreetBoston, MA 02138 USAAbstractWe have developed a computational model of the processof describing the layout of an apartment or house, amuch-studied iscourse task first characterizedlinguistically by Linde (1974).
The model is embodiedin a program, APT, that can reproduce segments ofactual tape-recorded descriptions, using organizationaland discourse strategies derived through analysis of ourcorpus.1.
IntroductionAt this point in research on natural languagegeneration, it is important to select problems that willclarify what is at issue in the larger phenomena understudy, while at the same time being small enough to yieldprincipled results in a reasonable amount of time.
Tobuild on what the field has already accomplished, theproblem must involve the generation of motivateddiscourses--rather than isolated test sentences--andshould be based on a corpus of real text.
Furthermore,since a computational treatment ofa generation problemshould include a fully programmed underlyingconceptual model to facilitate xperiments, and since therepresentation used in that model will invariably play acrucial role in any theory, part of the research isbuilding the model and designing the representation.This means that to be tractable the problem should notrequire expert knowledge or be overly large.Support for this work was provided in part by theDefense Advanced Research Projects Agency undercontract number N00014-87-K0238, and by Rome AirDevelopment Center under contract number AF30602-81-C-0169, task number 174398, both at the Universityof Massachusetts.626Living space descriptions fit these demands neatly?They are single-speaker monologues, allowing us toignore issues of turn-taking strategies or interpreting aninterlocutor's intentions.
The task is somethingeveryone seems to be able to do, but it is not such aneveryday occurrence that it has become formulaic: it islikely that people are actively constructing what they aresaying.
Affective and abstract information is minimaland, to a first approximation, can be safely factored outof a corpus, reducing the potential complexity of theconceptual model in living space descriptions.
Thissimplicity has allowed us to concentrate on our primaryconcerns:(a) understanding the relationship between theorganization ofa conceptual model anddescriptive strategies,(b) determining the influence of these strategies onthe discourse structure of a text, and(e) taking an initial ook at issues in lexical choicein a familiar domain.At the time this paper is written, we have finished thefirst phase of  our research.
We have collected andcarefully transcribed a corpus of seven different people'sdescriptions of the same, single-story house (theresidence of one of the authors).
A program model ofthis house, as these people appear to view it, has beendeveloped, along with a set of strategies and meta-strategies for generating some of the living spacedescriptions that emerged from our analysis of thecorpus.
This paper presents our representation, some ofthe strategies we have identified and their application imimicking I a segment from our corpus, and our?
treatment ofsome linguistic issues in choosing words andconstructions.2.
Background and approachThe s~;minal work in living space descriptions isCharlotte Linde's 1974 dissertation.
Linde's dataconsisted of 72 descriptions of apartments elicited ininte~ciews on the quality of life in New York City.
Shefound that the great majority of speakers organize theirdescriptions as an imaginary "tour" of the apartment.The spatial relationships among the rooms can beexpressed by describing how one might make one's wayfrom each room to the next.
Such a tour is of courseconstrained by the position of the actual routes throughthe apartment?
Linde proposed a model in terms of aphrase st~'ucture network in which the terminal nodeswere rooms and vectors of various categories.Veronika Ullmer-Ehrich, (1982) extended thediscussion to descriptions of individual dormitoryrooms, again embedded in longer interviews.
Thedescriptions he collected focused on the spatialrelationships among the rooms' furnishings.
She found,as one might expect, that imaginary movement was lessusual here, since the speaker can typically "see"everything to be mentioned from a single point of view.As in Li~de's apartment descriptions, physical proximityhas a strong influence on the order in which objects areintroduced; Ullmer-Ehrich refers to the result as animaginm'y "gaze tour" around the walls.
(Our owninformants tended to give the contents of the rooms aswell as their spatial relations to each other, letting us seeboth kinds of strategies in action.
)Linde's and Ullmer-Ehrich's treatments weredescriptive.
Ours attempts to model the motivationsbehind the texts.
Our aim is to conslxuct a computerprogram that can reproduce our data and, further,produce variations on it.
If simple variations on theparameters of our model still produce realistic texts,then we will have a basis for claiming that it could be acandidate explanatory model of the processing thatunderlies human behavior in this task.Our implementation, APT, is composed of aknowledge base consisting of interconnected first-class objects that reconstruct the living space, strategieswhich traverse the knowledge base constructingdescriptions, meta-strategies which choose among thestrategies each time a new strategy is needed, andmapping rules between APT's knowledge structuresand the re;dization component's knowledge structures.t Living space descriptions are a small enough subject area that it isworth trying to develop atreatrnent with enough articulations in itsmechanisms to potentially account for every detail of what peopleactually say---hence "mimic".
There may well be a vast amount ofarbitrariness in the decisions people make; but the pressure toexplain the fine structure oftheir utterances, not just to gloss over itby producing something "comparable" but more regular, should leadto stronger, more interesting theories.3.
The representationPractically any familiar epresentation language thatone might "take off the shelf.'
to use in modeling theinformation eeded for the description of a house will betechnically deficient in several ways when one comes touse it as a source for generation: it may not supply first-class objects for the information units a natural languagecan reference; its taxonomic hierarchy may provide thewrong generalizations, and so on.
To avoid theseproblems, we developed our own representation system,essentially a system for building a classic semantic net.2Every minimal fact and item to which a text can refer isits own first-class object, as are the relationships amongthem.
We refer to these objects as noumena,3 andpresently break them down into three basic types,reflecting differences in how they are mapped to therealization component.objects, such as kitchen-window and sinkrelations, such as has-property and next--topropenies, such as large and picture-window-likeNoumena have links to selected other noumena.iThese are the basis of the connectivity that (tacitly)makes a given knowledge base into a coherent whole, andallows the descriptive strategies to navigate it.Connections are introduced on an empirical basiswherever noumena re related in such a way that theycan be combined by a strategy in some description asdetermined by our analysis of the corpus, Theknowledge base for a given living space consists of all thenoumena that might reasonably be mentioned, given ouranalysis.While deliberate connections between oumena mayseem to be begging the question, they account for aphenomenon that cannot be neglected, namely why it isthat it never occurs to anyone to say, e.g., the toilet isnext to the stove.
If all aspects of describing a livingspace are data-directed, i.e.
following or choosingamong already established connections, then a speakerwill never even think about infeasible possibilities.
Onecan easily imagine other architectures, uch as simplylumping all objects into a common heap organized bytheir salience, where one would have to actively searchfor interesting relations by methods like generate and4est.
Such a design would make different predictionsi.2 At this point we clo not include any sort of part-whole hierarchysuch as house dominating room dominating furniture.
If such astructure eventually emerges as a generalization that, say, simplifiesthe statement of our strategies, then this will suggest that it isinherent inthe conceptualization of the task.
On the other hand if webuild in a hierarchy a priori, we will never know whether theslrueture is them only because we put it there.3 Singular: noumenon; a Greek word used by Kant to mean athing-in-itself, independent of sensuous orintellectual perception f it.,627about resource demands and processing effort than ourswould.
44.
Strategies and meta-strategiesA description is a controlled traversal of theknowledge base.5 No component of this traversal isprecomputed; that is, there are no "plans" which dictate apriori the structure of the description.
Instead, control ishandled by strategies, which are dynamically selectedand linked together by meta-strategies.
A strategy,when chosen, operates in a context which determineshow it will traverse (its part of) the knowledge base.This context is composed of the most recently visitednoumenon, all of the untraversed links emanating fromit, and the most recently used strategy.
There are otherfactors which feed into the context, many of which canbe conceptualized asparameters which" bias the choicesof strategies within a particular house description.
Onesuch parameter is level of detail: a description may ormay not include the more detailed escriptions of objectswithin it.We believe that this implementation f the context issufficient o account for most of the choices of strategiesthat could be made.
However there are clearly cases inwhich a richer context is required, for example, And thedoor, again, is in the same relationship to the windows asit is in Penni's room.
Here we need to model!
someawareness of previous patterns and the ability to refer tothem in constructing new descriptions.We have so far identified approximately 15strategiesin our corpus, each grouping noumena together andordering their presentation.
Typical strategies includemoves such as circular sweep, in which the speakerpicks an anchor point in a room, and describes theroom's features or contents in an order determined bytheir placement along the circumference of the room:l ook  r ight  - look left, in which the speaker describesfeatures to either side of a mental reference point, orfollow a hallway, one of the strategies by which aspeaker shifts to a new vantage point.To understand this better, let us look at how thestrategies and recta-strategies come into play in\[4 An arguably equivalent and perhaps preferable representationmight be a non-propositional geometrical model after the fashion ofan architect's drawing.
However, we have never seen any evidenceof the precision that such a representation would bring with it (quitethe contrary), and have found many conventional spects to thedescriptions in our corpus that would be quite at odds with a modelthat captured the actual visual appearance of the house.5 Our observations agree with Linde's that a minimal descriptionmentions all of the rooms (except possibly the bathroom) and theirspatial relation to each other.
Apt keeps track of rooms (and othernoumena) mentioned, and simply stops when all the rooms havebeen mentioned.628generating this excerpt from a description by a subjectnamed Lisa.
(This is an implemented example that APThas actually produced.
)Then, in the kitchen,(1) there's a large windowwhich faces the backyard, with two flankingwindows.
(2) And, if we're facing the backyard,(3)on the righthand side is a sliding glass door, and thena small window.
If we're again facing thebackyard,(4) on the lefthand side is the stove, then arefrigerator.
And, beneath that large window is thesink,(5) and on the righthand side is the dishwasher,This segment starts with a preposed adverbial to marka shift of vantage point.
(1) Upon entering a major rooma meta-strategy preferring any especially salient objectsover object sequences applies, giving us the matrix clauseof the first sentence.
(2) That window is connected tothree sets of objects, each of which is organized by asweep strategy.
This pattern (i.e.
a salient object hat isthe nexus of several sweeps) triggers a room-sweepmeta-strategy that anchors them all to the same object(the window), expressing the sweeps as displacementsfrom this anchor using deietic terms (righthand side, andthen) and reorienting to the salient focal point betweensweeps.
(3,4, 5) A recta-strategy, probably specific toLisa, prefers tarting with "righthand" alternatives, thusgiving the sweeps their order.5.
Linguist ic choicesThus far we have been talking about issues of what wewould call "orchestration": planning the text structurethat provides the order of presentation, segmentationinto sentences, and the textual function and salience of abody of information that has been selected for inclusionin an utterance.
We must also look at issues in"mapping": selecting the specific wording and choice ofconstruction that will realize a given noumenon.6Lexical selection is in most respects a non-issue inliving space descriptions.
Nearly every physical objecthas an obvious and very over-learned name (e.g.
kitchen,bathroom, sink, refrigerator), making the process one ofsimple retrieval rather than judgment and planning.
Theexceptions are, as one would predict, the objects whoseassociated common ouns do not pick them out uniquely,such as "hallway", "closet", or "window".
For these APTwill have to explicitly construct descriptions by foldingin restrictive modifiers as they are needed.
In thecorpus, such descriptions were most often constructed6 The other principal activities of generation (as we see it) are"selection", which is in most respects rivial in this domain since westipulate that all of the noumena in the knowledge base are to bementioned, and "realization", which is carded out by the programMumhlo-86 in the fashion described in Meteer et al 1987.from the same sort of spatial information used in clauses.Thus we have references to a large hallway that leadsinto the kitchen, or the smaller hallway that leads, to thebedrooms.
After it has been mentioned a few times, adescription will be abbreviated and eanonicalized: thatwide hallway, that smaller hallway, with or withoutfurther (non-restrictive) modification.Choosing syntactic onstructions i a constrainedproblem in this task, since our corpus containssurprisingly few construction types.
For example, onceaffective comments and digressions have been removed,more than half of all clauses fall within the classlocative relation:there is <object> <at location><at location> there is <object>, <at location>/s <object><object> is <at location><objectl> has <object2> at<location>Which construction is selected is determined by a setof discourse-level heuristics.
For example within asweep the "<at location> is <object>" choice is naturalbecause it facilitates chaining.
Breaks between discoursesegments can be flagged with a marked construction likeThere-Insertion (Then there's Sabine's room on theright, as opposed to Sabine's room is on the right).6.
Future  WorkA major goal of this work is to construct a library ofmeta-strategies, strategies, and mapping rules that iscomprehensive enough to allow APT to produce avarietyof new descriptions (in addition to mimicking the onesfactually in the corpus) from the same knowledge base byvarying library selections in what appear to be naturalways.
Towards the end of establishing and strengthening~our theory, we are also planning to collect and model alarger set of descriptions of another living space.
In aparallel effort, we are working on a computationallyfeasible model of spatial deixis.
We would ultimately liketo use the architecture we develop to reanalyze priorwork in related domains, such as the scene analysis doneby Conklin's GENARO (1983).7.
ReferencesE.
Conklin.
Data-Driven Indelible planning ofDiscourse Generation Using Salience.
COINSTechnical Report 83-13, University ofMassachusetts, 1983.C.
Linde.
The Linguistic Encoding of SpatialInformation.
Doctoral Dissertation, ColumbiaUniversity, 1974.M.
Meteer, D. McDonald, S. Anderson, D. Forster, L.Gay, A. Huettuer & P. Sibun, Mumble-86: Designand Implementation.
COINS Technical Report 87-87, University of Massachusetts, September 1987.P.
Sibun.
APT: A System to Direct and Control NaturalLanguage Generation.
COINS Technical Report 87-42, University of Massachusetts, 1987.V.
Ullmer-Ehrieh.
The Structure of Living SpaceDescriptions.
In Speech, Place, and Action, R.Jarvella and W. Klein, ed., John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.1982.~;29
