CROSSING COREFERENCE IN D ISCOURSE REPRESENTATION THEORYMichael HESSUniversity of ZurichDept.
of Colnputer Science, Winterthurerstr.
190Ctt-g057 Zurich, SwitzerhnldAbst rac tSentences a, ith crossing coreference (Bach-Peters-sentences) are notoriouslydifficult to eq/lain ill a natural nmnner.
An intriguing parallel with certain pro-perties of t 'mlog suggests a modificatiml to Discour~ Represenlation Thexn'ywhich allows a simple and coherent explanation of these, and related, sentences.The  Probte lnIn English there is due type of sentence that has caused major problems for prac-tically all linguistic theories that have tried to explain it, and none of Ihe explana-tions put forward is very convincing.
The sentences in question are those withcross'lag corcferenee, the so-called Bach-Peters-sentences.
The standard exam-pies arc:l) "The htutter who shot  al:, i t  hJl; the  \ ] ion  that  chased  h imand, with cxpiicit quarldfier expressions:2) Every  man who wants  it w i l l  get  the  pr i ze  he deservesWhat is the difficulty wilh this type of sentence?
'Illey contaiu two uoun phraseseach of which contains a pronoun that refers to the other notnl phrase, and tilefirst pronoun is filrthermore a case of "backwards anaphora", or "cataphonl".These sentences are admittedly tare, bet sentences with simple (non-crossing)camphora re quite frequent ill real world English (Carden 1982).
And Bach-Peters-sentences are nevertheless perlectly reguhu', and so they should find anatural exph/nation.
Moreover, they are key exanlplcs of sentences where Gala.pllora cannot, in principle, be mphlced by anaphora (cf.
also Mittwoch 1983).This is imporlant because one of tile standard approaches to cataphora has beento define it away as stylistic variant of anaphm'a, which can be "rectified" by asimple transposition.
Ill other words: Since we have to find a way to explain cata-phora for Bach-F'eters-sentences anyway, we carl save us the lfouble to devisesuch tricks for the siutpler cases.Are  Bach-Peters -P ronouns  Descr ip t iona l  l ' ronouns?The non-reAucibility of cataphofic to anaphoric pronouns in Bach-Peters-sentences becomes clear if we try to explain them in tile traditional manaer.
Itseems that both of/t ie two traditional interpretations of prononns, tile "de~:rip-tional" as well as the "denotafionar' one, fail to explain the intuitive truth condi-lions of Baeh-l'ete~.-sentences.
In Transformational Grammar the deseriptionalapproach is taken, trod pronouns are always expanded to the sl,rface syntax formof the norm pbaase they anaphoric~dly refer to (in other words, pronominalizationis an obligalxlry cyclic rule).
But then we get, for tile example above, a doubleinfinite embedding of relative clauses:The hunter  who shot  at(the l ion  that  chased(the hunter  who shot  at(tile l i on  that  chased  .
.
. )
) )h i t  the  l i on  that  chased(the hunter  who shot  at(the l i on  that  ohased(the hunter  who shot  at  ... )))This analysis is patently uselc,ss.
K,'u'ttuuen shows (Karttunen 1971) that drop-ping the requirement that pronominalization is a cyclic rule alleviates the prob-lem somewhat, but at a cost: II would make sentence 1derivable from (at least)two different deep structures, viz.
fi'om file deep structures corresponding to thesentences3) Tile hunt;~r who shot  at  the  ll.on that  chased him h i t  it:d) The  lJ.on thai: chased  the  hlnlter who shot  at it was  hitby  h imThis would mean that 1 has to he mnbiguous between the meanings of 3 and 4.This is what Karttuncn assumes, but it is a highly duhious claim as Karttunenhimself scculs to fcel (Karttunen 1971:167 i t .
Moreover, the strnctum of I co,ldalso be derived from a deep stractm'e corresponding to5) The  hunter  who shot  at  the  l~on h i t  the  l ion  that  chasedtile hunterBut Oils sentence is considered by nuuly informants to l~e simply ungramnmtical(Karttunen 1971:178), aud ill is not acceptable at all under the corefblvnce rela-tions that should obtain between tile noun phrases.
Finally, the assonlption that lis three ways ambiguo,s bctwceu 3, 4 and 5 is unaccellml~le, too, Ill urder toshow this, and in order to underslanll better what these three sentences reallynlean, we Call USe a set of data hascs (after Karttnaen 1971) which eitller contain,or do not contain, well-definexl referents for the varimm defiaite uoun phrasesocctnriag iu/lie example sentences.
We will see that I is not alnhiguous hclwccn3 anti 4, \[lilt that the three sentences have three distinct n/eanings which Call liederived directly fl'onl their syniactic stractllre.
This proves, at tile same time, lha!cataphoric prououns are irreducible ill Bach-Peters-sentences.
Let us first con-sider tile dcfiuite nonu phrase "the hunlor who shot at tile lion dmt chased him"(fiont 3) consisting of an embedding of two definite noun phrases.
Since eachsingular definite noun phrase presupposes that there is a nnique retereut for it,this phrase cau refer to a pah" "hnnter H - lion I/' in the case whom lion L is theonly lion chasing huuter tl, and this hanter H shot at this very lion L. Ill the following dam base (Karttunen 1971:166) there is one such pair.hun to  r (hl) .
chased  ( L 1 ~ h3  ) .
\ ] ion  ( ~ t ) .hunter  (h2) .
chased  (12, h \] ) .
\] J on  ( \]2 ) .hunter  (h3) .
chased  (13,112) .
l i on  {13) .shot ;  _at (hl ,  i l l  .
shot_at  (h2, \] 1 ) .
shot  a t  (h2, \] 3 ) .shotat  (hl,  13)  .
shot; a t  (h3r \ ]3)  .
shotat  (h3, 12) .\]?
;or each hnnter, there is a single lion chasinj~ him but only elm hunter ~dsoshoots at this lion, viz.
hnnter 2 who shoots at lion 3.
I{unter 2 S}IOOIS at Oilierlions, as well (e.g.
at lion 1) but lieu I doesn't chase hunter 2 (although it doeschase other hunters, e.g.
hnnlm" 3).
Hence it can be said (Dik 1973:320) that tiledelinite uonn phrase "the hnnter who shot at tile lion that chased hiuf' has awell-defined referent in ally data hase which contaius fl~st one contigllration ofthe typeshoots ?
'~ "-" 7-~'?
"~t , .
.
hunter 4 .
.
.
.
.
~ lion ~6) chases ~ .
~This rules out that other lions chase the hunter, bat it leaves open tile possibilitythat the hunter shoots at other lions, that the lien chases other hunters aml, in par-ticular, that other hunters hoot at the lion.
On the other hand, example 4, "Thelion/lint chasexl tile bunter who shot at it was hit by him", is not intelllretnble inthe data base given above, lts subject, "the lion that chased the hnnter who shotat it", Nils to refer properly: There is only one lkm for which/llere is a huater wecan call "the hunter who shot at it", viz.
lion 2 (the other two lions are both beingshot at by nlm'e than one hunter), but lion 2 does not chase "die hmlter who shotat it" (viz.
hunter 3), and so tile enfile noan phrase fails to refer.
A data basewhere there is a referent for this noun phrase couhl look like that:hunter  (hl) .
chased  Ill., h l )  .
l l on  l i l t  .hunter  (h2) .
chased  ( 13., h3  ) .
\] i on  (12) .hunter  (h3) .
chased(12 ,h l )  .
l i on  (13) .shot_at  (hl ,  \].2) .
chased  (\],2, h3)  .
chased  (\].3, h2)  .shot_at  (h2, i i )  .
shot .
a t  (h3, 13) .
chased(13 ,  h l )  .The definite nouu phrase "trio lion that chased the hanter who shot at it" has awell-defined refereat ill troy data base which contains just one configuration oftile type 7: ,, o .
.~ .
..~ ?
,, ?7) hunter  ~ lion?
.
.
~- - "~"  ,AExmnple 1 cannot be inter0reted in either ttle first or/lm second data base.
It isinterpretable only in a dam base which contains at most one confignratkm like 8which combines restrictions 6 and 7:2458) "~hunter"4"  - -  -- -~  l ion ~ ~"  "~.
.
.
@ ,2Are Bach.Peters-Pronouns "Bound Variable" Pronouns?Since the unmodified as well as the modified escriptional interpretations of pro-nouns in Bach-Peters-sentences do not allow us to represent these distinctionsthey cannot be accepted.
But how do the "deep" approaches topronouns, the so-called "denotational" interpretations, fare?The prototypical denotational interpretation f pronoans is the one suggested byFh'st Order \[x)gic, where bound variables ate seen as the logical counterpart ofpronouns in Natural Language.
If we use iota-operators, wecould try to translateI into9) h i t ( io ta  Z: \[hunter(Z) ^ shot_at (Z,W)\ ] ,iota W: \[lion(W) ^ chasedlW, Z)\])The trouble is that iota-operators bind their variables, making them inaccessiblefor reference from the outside.
Hence we cannot refer forward from the term"shot at(Z,W)" to the "W" in the second iota-expression, nor can we refer back-ward from "chased(W,Z)" tothe "Z" in the first iota-expression.
If we add equal-ity to First Order Logic there is a way out.
We could re-phrase 9 as10) H x: H Y: (hit(x,Y) AX=iota  Z:Y=iota  W:\[hunter(Z) A shot at(Z,Y)\]  A\[lion(W) ^ chased(W,X) \] )The other examples, 3 and 4, woul d then become11) 3 x: ~ Y: (hit(X,Y) ^X= iota Z: \[hunter(Zl ^shot a t (Z , io ta  W: \[lion(W) A chasedlW, Z)\])\] ^Y= iota V: \ [ l ion(V l ^ chased(V,X) \ ] l12) 3 X: -q Y: (hit (X,Y) AX = iota Z: \[hnnter(Z) ^ shot_at(Z,Y) \ ]  AY= iota W: \[lion(W) Achased(W, iota V: \[hunter(V) ^ shot_at (V ,W)\ ] ) \ ] )But in cases 11 and 12 part of the expression must be repeated, namely the onestating the uniqueness of the hnnter-chasing lion, and of the lion-shooting bunter,respectively.
This is a very unattractive way to express this sort of thing, andKarttauen agrees: "One is tempted to think that one of \[these repeated efinitedescriptions\] could be eliminated by a more clever use of variables, especiallywhen variables in predicate calculus are generaUy used very much the same wayas pronouns in natural language.
\[_.\] \[But\] the second appearance of the samedescription cannot be avoided, because, in predicate calculus, there is no way torefer back to the first."
(Karttunen 1971:176).McCawley's suggestion: Referential indicesBut this is the point where other people disagree.
McCawley (McCawley 19"10),for instance, argues (for other easons), that the semantic representation f sen-tences hould not be east in terms of First Order Logic, but rather in terms of theoverall proposition of a sentence plus referential indices.
The proposition woulddefine the relationship that exists between the different objects talked about inthe sentence, but these objects would be represented independently b referentialindices that correspond to the "intended reference" of the noun phrase.
Theseindices are "identified" by the noun phrases in the sentence, i.e.
their values aredetermined by the nonn phrases.
A sentence such as "The man killed thewoman", would be translated as13) s (proposition(killed(Xl,X2)},np(Xl:  the  man)nplX2: the woman))A surface sentence would be generated from this structure by replacing diereferential indices in the proposition by the noun phrases identifying them.
Asfor Bach-Peters-sentences, example 1would be represented as14) s Ipropos i t ion(h i t (X l ,X2) ) ,np(Xl:  the hunter  who shot at X2)np(XZ: the l ion that chased Xl))Here the referential indices are identified by noun phrases which themselves con-rain referential indices.
\]f we want Ix\] generate a surface senteuee from this struc-ture we will have to ~'eplaee the referential indices by their identifying nmmphrases, but we will not be able to replace systematically all referential indicesthis way, because fltis would lead tit the same kind of infinite embedding that weencountered above.
We will rather, at some point in the derivation, have to tncnsome of the refereoti~d indices into pronouns (talOns into account case, genderand number).
The point at which we stop replacing referential indices by fullnoun phrases and start turning them into pronouns will determine which ofseveral possible paraphrases of a sentence we will obtain.
The distinctionbetween "proposition" on the one hand and "referential index" with the accom-panying "identifying noun phrase" on the other hand allows McCawley to over-come the problem with repeated components: The "identifying noun phrase" of areferential index is memioned only once, independently of how many times thereferential index itself is used elsewhere in the representation.D ik ' s  Mod i f i ca t io~ o f  McCawle /s  TheoryThis approach as been criticized on different coums.
First, it is not clear atwhich point referential indices may begin to he tarued into l)mnouns rather thanbeing replaeexl by identifying expressions.
Second, and more importantly,McCawley's uggestion allows all three sentences (1, 3, and 4) to be derivedfrom the same semantic representation, which would require that they are allsynonymous.
Hence all the problems we encountereA with the descriptionalinterpretation f pronouns are hack with a vengeance.
Does that meau that wehave to return to the standmd First Order Logic representation with all itsunattractive features (repetition of components)?
Dik 1973 suggests amothfication of McCawley's approach that takes care of the empirical fact thatfile three sentences mentioned above are not synonynrous.The main syntactic diffel~nce between the three example sentence,; is the way inwhich tfie different full noun pllrases are embedded in each other.
In particular,in the Bach-Peters-sentence there are no embedded full noun phrases; tile onlyembedded noun phrases are pronouns ("who shot at it", "that chased him").
Thiskind of distinction is lost in McCawley's original notation, which is the reasonwhy he has to ch'fim that the examples sentences axe all synonymous.
Dik's first(and main) modification of McCawley's notation makes sm'e that this, cnlcial,distioction is not lost.
The way to achieve this goal is by iuiroduciug what mightbe called (not Dik's expression) "annotated variables" to take the place ofMcCawley's referential indices, which are constants.
The annotation of a vari-able indicates how tile value of the variable is to be computed.
Thus"X2(X2=iota Z: (lion(Z) ^  chased(Z,Y)))" is an annotated vari~thle.
This wouldgive as, for 3,15) hit (XI,X2)X l= io ta  Y: (hunter (Y) A~hot at(Y, X2(XZ=iota Z: (\].ion(Z) A chased(Z,Y) ) ) ) )As in McCawley's system, refereotial indices umst be replaced by thecorresponding identifying expressions, and any variables remaining after thisstep are tnmed into pronouns.
In addition, we have the usual convention thatfunctional expressions are to be evaluated from the inside out.
But what is gainedby faithfuUy copying a certain syntactic structure (viz.
embedding) into the deeprepresentation?
Are the interpretation rules given by Dik really sufficient to inter-pret the resulting expressions correctly?
If we perform the replacement, lbrinstance, in 15 we get16) h i t ( io ta  Y: (hunter(Y) Ashot a t (Y ,X2 lX2=iota  Z: (lion(Z) A chased(Z ,Y ) ) ) ) l ,X2)Now, if we wanted to generate a surface sentence from tiffs representation wewould turn the remaining unbound varinble, i.e.
"X2", into a pronoun, and every-thing would be in order.
But what if we wmtted In evaluate this statement overone of the data bases?
The X2 on the level of the proposition, i.e.
"hit(...,X2)" isclearly outside the scope of the "almotntion" defining its value, and so we wouldexpect it to remain unbound alter the annotation itself has been evaluated.
Thisis, after 'all, precisely the reason why Karttunen thought it necessary to re-introduce the duplication of logical expressions that McCawley had tried to gelrid of: To provide the second, outer, occurrence of this variable with a value.
Weneed an interpretation rule which specifies how variables of this kind can bebound, and this rule is not provided by Dik.246An Unexpectedly Simple Solution Suggested by Second-Order Pro log  Const ructsAs it turns out, the additional interpretation rule that makes the correct interpreta-tion of Bach-Peters-sentences virtually "fall out" is the definition of second-orderoperators, and the general interpretation rules of Horn Clause Logic, as imple-mented in starutard Prolog: Instead of "Z=iota X: (Y)" we use "setof(X,Y,\[Z\])",where the nniqueness reqltirement is built into the definition of "setof', andsingularity is enforced by requiring the result list to consist of exactly one ele-ment.
Annotated variables on the other hand are "multiplied out" in the relationalspirit of Prolog, i.e.
instead of "predicate(X,Y(Y=Z))" we write"(predieate(X,Y), Y=Z)".
Combining these two steps we get, for the expressionabove,17) hit(Xl,X2),seto f (Y ,  (hunter  (Y) ,se to f (Z ,  ( l ion(Z) ,  chased(Z ,Y ) ) ,  \ [X2\]) ,shotat  (Y, X2) ) , \[Xl \] )or, with a more suggestive choice of variable names and a more efficient orderingof the goalsIg) se to f (H ,  (hunter(It) , shotat  (H,TL) ,se to f  (L, ( l ion (L) , chased(L ,  TH) ) , \[TL\] ) ) , \[TH\] ) ,h i t  (TH,TL) .Now the desireal truth conditions come out corrccdy.
We can see this if we treat18 as a Prolog query: We lind, first, a lmnter CH") who shoots at somethingCTL").
Then we check whether this entity is identical with the set of exactly onelion C\['IL\]") ttmt chases omeone CTH") who mast then tam out to be identicalwith the hunter who is the only such hunter C\[TH\]").
Finally we check whetherthis hunter also hits this lion.
The other sentences are represented the same way:4 and 1 (the Bach-Peters-sentence) give19) seto f  (L, ( l ion (L) , uhased(L ,  Tn) ,se to f  (H, (hunter  (H) , shotat  (H, TL) ) , \[TH\] ) ) , \[TL\] ) ,h i t  (TH, TL) .20) se to f  (n, (hunter  (H) , shot  at  (H, TL) ) , \[TH\] ) ,se to f  (L, ( l ion (L) , chased  (L, TH) ) , \[TL\] ) ,h i t  (TH,T6) .Now we get, without any additional stipulations, the three different interpreta-tions for the tlnee example sentences.
The sentences are neither collapsed intoone single meaning repre~ntation (with three synonymous surface sentences), aswith McCawley's approach, nor into two different ones (with two distinct andunambiguous, :rod one ambiguous, surface sentence), as with IGarttanen'sapproach.
The simple fact that in Bach-Peters-sentences th  full definite descrip-tions are not embedded, forces them to evaluate to two distinct, independentlyunique, values, and this ensures that these sentences are true only over data basesmeeting condititm 8.But how can this unexpectedly straightforward solution be explained?
The mainproblem that McCawley's representation, and Dik's modification of it, tried toovercome was: How can variable values be communicated into iota-expressionsfrom the outside, despite the fact that, in First Order Logic, variables within thescope of an operator or quantifier are shielded from the outside?
Now, in HornClause Logic nil variables of a clause are, implicitly, universally quantified(which means that variables in a query, i.e.
in a negated clause, are existentiallyquantified), and the scope of the implicit quantifiers is the entire clause.
Thebindings of variables "spread" tlvoughout the clause, irrespective of how deep avariable may be.
embedded.
This also applies to the setof-operator: All its vari-ables are accessible from the outside, within the given clause.
The variables can,of course, still be unbound when the evaluation of the setof-expression begins,and then it is the evaluation of the setof-expression that will establish bindingsfor these variables.
But they can also get bound elsewhere, before the operator isused, and "spr~td forward".
And then a proof of tim setof-expression treats thesepre-established I~indings as constraints to be satisfied.
This is the Prolog way toimplement the cataphoric pronoun in Bach-Peters-sentences, In this, last, respectthe setofoperator in Prolog is treated as just another predicate, and its beingsecond order is irrelevant.
The difference is that the interpretation of the setof-operator uses Prolog's meta-callfacility.
Or, to put it differently: A piece of code(the entries in the second argument of the semf-operator) isfirst treated as "data"(variable bindings are communicated with the outside world), and then it istreated as a piece of "program" that is executed (using the variable bindings thatare established atthis point in time).
And in this the Prolog setof-operator differsfundamentally form the iota-operator as used in First Order Logic.
The iota-operator has, a~ fro" as variable binding is concerned, the same force as aquantifier: A variable in its scope is immune from any outside interference.Now it is clear why we need not repeat any expressions in the representation fthe example sentences, and yet the variables all get properly bound: In the exam-ple above, the two terms of 18 (i.e.
rite setof-expression a d the expression"hit(TH,TL)") are part of the same clause, and values for variables created ineither of them will spread to the other.
In particular, the value which the variable"TL" takes during the evaluation of "shot_at(H,TL)" is still available during theevaluation of the embedded "setof(L,(lion(L),chased(L,TH)),\[TL\])", and laterduring the evaluation of "hit(TH,TL)".Mapping Variables onto PronounsIf we want to generate surface sentences from these stmctares, we must distin-guish between two uses of variables: First there are those uses which are merelyan artefact of the relational way of representing functional application, and,second, there are those that correspond to true anaphoric relations in language.The first use is simple: If we want o represent functional applications such asplus(times(3,2),4)in a relational language, we must "multiply out" the embedded expression andcreate auxiliary variables for the intermediate r sults, e.g.
"X" and "Y" intimes(3,2,X), plus(X,4,Y)Thus we had to use 20, with auxiliary variables "TH" and "TL", instead of afunctional representation such as, for instance,21) h i t  (set (H, (hunter  (H) , shot  .at (H, L) ) ) ,set (L ,  ( l ion(L)  , chasod(L ,H)  ) ) )These "auxiliary" variables are situated on the same level of embedding (bydefinition: their purpose is to flatten embeddings).
Co-occurrence of such vari-ables on the same level of embedding maps, in simple cases, onto concatenation("^") in surface structure: Thus the fonuwing occurrences of variables "TI."
and"TH" in 2020a) seto f  (L, ( .
.
. )
; \[TL\] ) ,se to f (H ,  ( ... ) , \ [TH) ) ,h i t (TH,TL) .become "((rite hunter) ^ hit ^  (the lion))".
Co-occurrence of variables across dif-ferent levels of embedding, however, cannot be encoded as simple concatenation.These cross-references map onto pronouns.
(The conver~ does not hold: Thereare pronouns that do not correspond to this kind of cross-reference; e.g.
descrip-tional pronouns.)
Thus the level-crossing co-occurrence of the variable "TL" in20b) seto f (H ,  ( ... shot  at(H,  TL))  .
.
.
.
)se to f (L ,  ( ... ) , \ [TL \ ] ) ,h i t ( .
.
.
)must map onto a pronoun ("The hunter who shot at it").
A problem arises whenwe try tO translate 19 back into English.
If we begin the translation process wiri~"hit(TH,TL)" and map the level-crossing variable "TH" onto a pronoun we get"He hit the lion that chased the hunter who shot at it", which is not acceptableunder the intended interpretation (i.e.
coreferentiality of "he" and "the hunter...").
This corresponds to a well-known syntactic restriction on the use of cata-phoric pronouns.
Here we need a rule that works for syntax generation ratherthan for analysis.
The following rule is a bit ad-hoc, but it is sufficient for thepresent purpose: We require that the translation of the entire set of expressionsmust begin with the expression defining the top relationship between the indivi-dual set expressions (i.e.
with the expression corresponding, in most cases, to themain verb of the surface sentence), and that level-crossing occurrences of vari-ables in this term are la'anslated last.
If this restriction makes it impossible totranslate these variables from, say, left to right (as in the case of example 19,where the first variable "TH" is a level-crossing occurrence), it is done right toleft.
This requires that the surface verb form is passivized but it gives the gram-matieally correct ordering of full noun phrases and pronouns (i.e.
we get rite ori-ginal passive sentence 4 for 19).
In Bach-Peters-sentences such as 20 both theactive and passive versions are admissible under this restriction, in keeping withthe linguistic facts.247Second-Order  P ro log  Const ructs  and  D iscourse  Represen-ta t ion  TheoryThe painless way in which the correct ruth conditions of Bach-Peters-sentencesand the related sentences virtually fall out of the standard Prolog interpretationrules and the definition of the second-order setof-operator is m)t just a luckycoincidence.
It is rather another case of the intriguing parallel between NaturalLanguage and Horn Clause Logic which has become particularly clear inDiscourse Representation Theory (DR'I).
The main hypothesis of DRT is thatnoun phrases (and articles) have no quantificational force on their own but areimplicitly quantified by the context.
This allows DRT to explain, with remarkableease, so-called onkey-sentences, a type of sentence that does not yield to thetraditional interpretation of noun phrases as quantified statements.
Thecorrespondence between the logic underlying DRT, and Horn Clause Logic is, inthis respect, almost one-to-one: In DRT, (indefinite) noun phrases introducediscourse refcreuts which are quantified by the (discourse) context in the sameway as variables in Horn Clause Logic are implicitly quantified by the (chnlse)context.How do Bach-Peters-sentences fit into DRT?
First, we notice the parallelbetween McCawley's ideas and DRT: His "referential indices" correspond, intheir intended fllnction, to tile discourse referents in DRT, and "propositions"correspoud to the DRT "conditions" on discourse referents.
In the Prolog versionof Dik's modification of McCawley's ideas, discourse referents correspond ~ thevalue of the third argument in a setof-operator, and the "conditions" of aDiscourse Representation Structure (DRS) to the expression(s) in its secondargument.
All this applies, for the time being, only to definite noun phrases andtheir representation.
If we want to incorporate this into DRT, we must first pro-vide for the possiblity to explicitly represent he embedding of noun phrases.This kind of explicit embedding was the main reason why we got the right truthconditions in the Prolog representation f the example sentences.
We must, inother words, be allowed to use embedded "conditions" in a DRS.
TraditionalDRT allows for the embedding of entire DRSs, hut not of individual conditions.While a sentence like "If John owns a donkey that dislikes him, he beats it" istraditionally represented asaflat DRS like22) \[UI:\[U2: john(ul},  donkey(u2) ,  owns(ul ,u2) ,  d i s l i kes(u2 ,u l ) \ ]\ [beats(ul ,u2)\ ] \ ](cf.
Kamp 1981, Kanrp 1983, Frey 1983, Guenthner 1983, Guenthner 1985, Kolb\]985, Guenthner 1986, Pinkal 1986, Root 1986) this will not do-for the sentenceswith embedded efinite noun phrases considered above.
We must somehowrepresent this embedding.
And we must, obviously, provide for the interpretationrules to use them.
These rules will crucially rely on Prolog's meta-call facility toimplement the double use of embedded set-expressions, a  data structures on theone hand and as "executable procedures" (i.e.
as provable assertions) on theother.In traditional DRT mostly indefinite and universal noun phrases (and propernames) are used while the Bach-Peters-sentences considered above all containeddefinite noun phrases.
But for some of them there are versions with indefinitenoun phrases, too, and all of them have corresponding plural versions.
In order tocover all these cases we must introduce, instead of the "conditions" of DRT,generalised set expressions without the totality implication of Prolog's "setof"(cf.
also Webber 1983).
We use "set(Def,Card,Gdr,Var,Int,Ext)", where "Def"can take the values "def'(inite) or "indef"(inite), and "Card" either an explicitdumber, "plur", or a quantifying expression Call", "some" etc.).
"Gdr" gives thegender of the main noun.
"Var"(iable),"Int"(ension) and "Ext"(ension)correspond to the three arguments of the setof-operator.
The variable "Ext" canimw stand for sets as well as for individuals.Mapping Pronouns onto VariablesSo far we have mentioned how pronouns correspond, statically, to certain seman-tic objects of oar modified DRSs (i.e.
to the level-crossing occurrences of vari-ables).
But it is one of the main goals of DRT to give a unified account of whatthe procedures that actually perform the resolution of pronouns should look like.This problem is much harder than the converse one, i.e.
the mapping of level-crossing variables onto pronouns.
The central idea used hel~ by DRT is simple(it goes back to Karttunen, together with the term "discoarse r ferent"): Indefinitenoun phrases in "assertive" contexts create discourse referents which "live on",and which can he accessed by anaphoric expressions from points later in the sen-tence or discourse.
Discourse referents, however, that are created by indefiuitesin universal, conditional, and negative contexts, "die oft" when the sentence inwhich they occur is processed.
This idea corresponds closely to Prolog's conceptof variables and Skolem constants (the latter standing for existentially quantifiedvariables): During the interpretation f a program variables remain accessible byname within the clause where they occur.
This corresponds to the limited fife-span of discourse referents created in universal, condifional, and negative con-texts.
For Skolem constants in Prolog, however, the scope is the entire program;they "live forever", in the szune way as discourse referents created by iarlefinitesin assertive contexts.
And whenever a (definite) pronoun or definite noun phraseis encountered, a suitable antecedent must be located among the discoursereferents till "alive".
Its value is then replaced by the value of the discoursereferent found.
If several pronouns access the same discourse referent, hey get,of course, the same value.
This is the DRT counterpart of unificatiou.If we want to have, in our modified notation, discourse referents "float on the sur-face" of the corresponding DRSs, accessible lot later anaphoric reference, wecould write, for the indefinite version of 3, viz.
"A hunter who shot at a lion thatchased him hit it"19a) \[TL, TH:set (indef, 1, masc, H, (hunter (H) , shot_at  (H, TL) ,set (indef, 1, neutr,  L, (lion (L) , chased (L, TH) ) , TL) ) , TH) ,hit  (TH, TL) }But there are fimdamenml differences between the treatment of variables in Pro-log and DRT: During the interpretation f a Prolog program, bindings of a givenvariable spread throughout a clause to all occurrences of the same name, for-wards and backwards.
DRT, however, allows mdy torwards, "anaphoric",spreading of values.
Since a pronoun is processed as soon as it is encountered, itcan "look for" antecedents exclusively in the DRSs built up by the precedingdiscourse.
The interpretation procedures of DRT thus implement, implicitly, thesyntactic rule that a pronoun can refer auaphorically toa preceding noun phrasethat c-commands it.
Becausc this is, at the same time, the only case whereanaphora is allowed, the~ interpretation rules block, correctly, cataphora fromtile pronoun to the indefinite noun phrase in23) He sa id  that  a boy had taken the bookBut legitimate cases of cataphora, such as those in Bach-Peters-sentences, areblocked by these interpretation rules of DRT, as well.
Hence we must weaken theaccessibility restrictions for anaphoric l~ronominal references somewhat, but nottoo much: If we modelled them on Prolog's unrestricted variable sharing, 23would go through in its coreferential reading.Accessibility rules of DRT not only block certain correct interpretations, theyalso allow certain blatantly incorrect ones.
They would allow, for instance, thesentence above with a definite noun phrase, i.e.24) He sa id  that the boy had taken the bookto get an interpretation where pronoun and definite noun phrases are coreferen-tial.
Why?
The correct interpretation f this santence (no corefcrence between"he" and "the boy") requires that the definite noun phrase will be able to find anantecedent among the pre-existing discourse referents.
But then the sentence-initial "he" would be equally capable of accessing them, and this would allow theprohibited coreferential, cataphoric, reading of the "he" (i.e.
"pseudo-cataphora"via a common antecedent).
The same thing holds for "He hit the lion that chasedthe hunter who shot at it".The prohibited reading of this type of sentence can be ruled out on the basis ofpurely syntactic information.
The standard rule about pronouns ays that a pro-~aoun cannot be coreferential with an noun phrase if it both precedes and c-commands it.
This rules out the cataphoric use of a pronoun if it c-commands itstarget noun phrase but it allows cases of eataphora such as25) ~len he got up, John felt  hungry(which are reducible to anaphora) as well as Bach-Peters-sentences (which arenot), but it blocks the prohibited coreferences in "He hit the llon that chased thehunter who shot at it" and "He said that he boy had taken the book".Mittwoch (1983) has shown that lhese purely syntactic criteria are notsufficiently general to cover all relevant occurrences ofcataphora.
In many cases,discourse considerations are needed to explain why eataphora is allowed.
Thepronoun can occur, for instance, in a sentential constituent which is demoted, byexplicit discourse subordlnation markers, to a lower position than warranted bysyntax.
Thus, in26) I haven ' t  seen h im yet but John is back(from Mittwoch 1983) the "but" functions as an overt marker of topicality for thesecond sentence, demoting the first sentence, and in27) He may not  represent  the US at the Un i ted  Nat ionsanymore,  but  that  does not mean that  Andrew Young hass lowed hia pace2/48(fi'um Macleod 1984, quoting li'om "Tium,") Ihe "but", together with the modal"may", even lnallages to laake calaphora cceptable fronl  a sentcnee.iuifial sab.ject position (at l~ast ill journalese).
The common element of all lhese examplesof catapltoric proaouus is that they occur in discourse conditions, ht simple, casesthis coiacides wilh senteulial conditions ("if' etc.
), and rely often with sub-seateotial condilious (ill particular with postmodifie~s 0f norm phrases, such asreslrictive relative elanses, prepositioual phrases, or nonlinite cla,scs).
Ilut Ihepictare is complicated by tile lhct flint the "antecedent" of cataphota mnst bcdefinite if ~he sea~.ence is specific.
Conlllare28) ??
A hu, lh~-r  l.lho shot  at: .1.t h~t  a \ ] lon  i .hat  ch~s ,ed  h:im29) A \ ] l l l r lher  ,./he shot  o./; J t  h i t  th?~ \ ] ion  th&t  ~:ha;~:d hi.hi30) ??
When h,?
1;as poor  a farme~: t ez~le<1 to ove~woJ:k h is  do~-koy\[{I) Whon lie w~s poor  tile fa~7111or tendod to  ov{~<wo,Tk h i s  <lollkeyIn general (and ill mauy generic) scutences this restriction does not hold.
Thefollowing sentences ale fine although the "all|cl:edcnt" norm illn'ases areindetinile:32) A hun~:e~- who .~;ho.t~ al: i t  wSll  l~t  a l i on  ch~L ch.~:;,-,.
'~hllf l33) Zf he  is ~oo~: ~t f/l~:mer w i l l  t:{~nd Lo ovezwork  hSs  donk0yWhat seems to Im\[llmn here it that.
intntiv?ly spe~tking, the calallhoric I)rononnsets np an "expectation" for a t~lllowing nonn i)lnase which is specilic or noa-specific, dependin!~, on the st~cilicity of the coudillnnaI context in which the pro.norm fiilds itself.
The specilicity of the pronoulhnll context is deteralino:l(mainly) by tile m~pect of the velb there: "who shoots" vs. "who shul", "if hc islloer '' vs. "when he wax poor", etc.
A spccitie expeclalion requires a delinitenotal phl~dSC or a proper uaule Ill its "auteceAlent".
while a non..specilic oneaccepts either an indefinite or a delinite nonn phrase.Required Moflilications to Discourse Representatio.Theoryl low conld I)RT incoi0oratc Ihis kind of iuionuation in order to determine more,reliably tile range of permissible anallhora aud cataphora, while rnling out theillegal coreferential reading in sentences like "lie said that the boy had taken thebook"?
The R)llowing it "l list of requirements fl)r an implementation Ihat wonldtake tllese additional condilions lute account; At ill traditional \])P,T, tile iuconl-ing sentence otx;ns a new DRS, which defines tile space where all newly createddiscourse, referenls Call survive.
Nouu phrases creme sot extlressic, ns (tile "condi-tides" of standard dleory): hldefinite and detinite noun lltnases give rise to nor-ulal set expressions, while pro\]floons create set expressions Of a special type.Indefinite noon plnases give rise, in additioa, to discern'so referenls, which are,deposited in tim DRS nnder coustraction.
Traditional DRT has proper uame,screate discourse reli:rents, toll.
Whether this is the best possible decision is opento d0bale.
It would, iu lnany respects, t)(3 more consistent to lreat protx:r naillesOil a par widl detiui\[e uouu phrases.
Discoarse referents hoald contain all theillform'.ttiou that can become relevant br tim resolntion of prenuminal nnallhora,i.e.
at least ntnnber aud gender.
Definite set eXllressions delived from full nonuphrases without co*~ditional modtihers, as well as those delJved fl'onl definite pro-nouns, are evalualed as soon as Ihcy are created, i.e.
they try to find tlleir',mtee,edenls among tile pre..exisling (liscourse reforeuts.
\[{xpressions for pronounswhose autecedents have been fotuld tire renloved, once they have done Iheir dutyas value shariug ch;mnels.
So fIlr nothing really new.But now tile first modificatiou of standard theory is ueeded: Delinite full nounphrases are uot aiR,wed to look lbr their antec(xlenls inside file 1)RS still underCouslxnctiOll, wheu;as pr(lllOUnS ntay do so.
Sdcond, wllen any definite UOHUphrase (fnl\[ noah phrase or pronoun) Ilas iomld tilt ton'oct discourse rcfercllt, itdrags it into the DRS umler couslruclion.
These two chauges make sure that twofull noun phrases within Ihe same clause ate, never interpreted as corefemntial.They tdso block ealaphora in "lie said that a boy had token the book" (tile "he"has dragged file aptwopriate discotmse referent inlo the DRS, where it is "iuvisi-ble" to the subseqnent "tile boy").
And, liually, it brings a discourse refereutaccessed by a definite uoun phrase lute focus and makes it the prime caudiate forsllbsequcnt aaaphoric reference by ploaouns.
The lhird modiiication to standardI)RT is tills: Bccat~: proaollnS ill uon-gene,ric ontexts cequire delinite iloanphrases at ante, cedcnts (see examples 28 to 311, di~;oulse refereuls ulnst a/socalry information m~out ile definiteness of ~he noun phrase from which theywere derived.
Set expressions derived from prl)nOUllS will use this infornlaliou tOdetennioe whedmr a giveu discourse referent is a possible ~mtece,dent.
Thefou*thmodification, linally, takes case of cataphora: Wheoever all expression denoling acontrition (on tile disconrse, sentence, or sab-sentential level) is encountere,d, uoembedded DRSs are created (as it is done in standard DRT for "if"- and "every"-seuteuces) and the production of discourse referents goes on, but evaluation of allnew set eXflressions is suspendexl.
In particular, no filrther attempts at ,'maphoraresolu l Jou ale nlade, aud all llronuuns encountered from now on are stored ill theDRS ouder cousttllctiou as unevahlated set expressions.
It is only when die endof file chaise, is reacll0xl tllat unevahlated set expressious are processext.
Aluougthe set expressions and disconrse refereuls "in SUSlmnded animation" within aDRS, any reference, (backwards and lorwards) is permitted, as /one as the coedi-lions oullincd above ale fullilled.
This allows calaphura to be modelled, whilethe classical syutacti( reslriclious (calaphora only fi'om a non ?-eomnlaudingCOllSlittlent) are StlllSlllllOAI.
Lastly, dlose discourse refere,nls thai are allowed Inlive (Ihose from assertive, i.e.
non-conditional, contexts, and those that were.dragged ill l?om Ihe out.side) are released into the universe of discoarse re,ferents.ACI.
1983.tlrady 1983.Carden i982.Dik 1973.Frey 1983.Grocneudijk 1981.Gueadmcr 1983.Guenthner 1985.Guelathner 1986.Jacobs I970.Camp 1981.Kamp 1983.Karttuneu 1971.Kolb 1985.Macleod 1984.McCawley 1970.Mittwoch 1983.Piukal 1986.Root 1986.Stoyan 1986.We,bber 1983.ACI,, 1983, t'roceedings of the 21st Annual Meeting of theACI,.I{rady, M. and,  R.C.
Berwick, e,d., Computational Modelsof Discourre, ('File MIT Press Scrics in Artilicial Intelli-gence), MIT Press, Canlbridge, Mass.\] Loudon (19113).Cardcn, G., "Backwards auaphora in disconrse contcnl.
"Journal of Linguistics 18 pp.
361-387 (1982).f)ik, S,C., "Crossing Corefe,rence Agaiu," l:oundutiom ofLunguage 9 lip.
306-326 (1973).Frey, W. au(I le.eyle, U., "lmxical Fnncfional Granunar undlkiskursreprliseutatioustheorie als Grtmdlagen clues spr\[lchverarbeitenden Systems," LinguLvtische Berichte, (88) pp.79-100 (1983).Groenendi jk ,  \ ] .A .G.
,  Jansseli ,  T .M,V .
,  and SR)k, M.B.
J .
,Formal Methods iu the Study of Natural Language; Part l,Mathenlatisch COlllrtlnl Tract 135, Anlsterdam (198 I).Gllel l lhaer,  F. ~tll(\] Lehnlaun,  It., "Ru les  I()l l)r(nl(ln2inaliza -lion," ill: Proceedings of tile 1st Confere,uce of tile Enro--lmaU Chapter of the ACI,, Association lilt Compntational\[ Juguistics, l'isa (September 1983).Gnenthuer, 1;., "Linguistic Meaumg ill Discourse Represeu-ration Theory," FNS-Bericllt 85-5, l"orsclun/gsstellc f{irnatiMich-sprachliche Systcme, Universitfit Tiibingcn0985).
(iuenthuer, F., i.chlnann, i t ,  and SchC}ufcld, W., "A Ihcotyfor the representation (ff knowledge," IBM .1 Re.v l)eveto\])3011) pp.
39-56 11986).Jacobs, R.A. and , Roscnbaum P.S., eds., Readings inEnglish tran.sformationaf grammar.
1971/.Kamp, 11., "A Theory of Truth and Semantic Representa-tion," pp.
27%322 ill Groenendijk 1981, 11981).Kamp, H., SID without Time or Questions, Llnlnd)llshed;slrongly rnnlonred to appear as CSI,I Rctx-/rt 1983.Karttuncn, L., "Definite Descriptions with CrossingCorefemncc," Foundations of Language 7pp.
157-.18200711.Kolb, 1?-i'., "Aspekte der hnplemenmtiol~ derDiskursmlm~isentationsfimorie," FNS-Script 85-1,Uuiversit~it Tlibiuge,n, Forschungsste,llc fih'natiirlichsprachliche Systeme (May 1985).Macleod, N., "Morn on backward anal)hem and discourseslructnfe," J ofPragmatics 8 pp.
321-327 (1984).McCawley, J.D., "Where dm norm phrases come from?," pp.166-183 in Jacobs 1970, (1970).Mittwoch, A., "Backwards Anaphora aud Discomse St,m-turk," J ofPragmatics 7 pp.
12%139 (1983).Pinkal, M., "Situationssemautik und Diskarsrepr',isen-talionsflmorie; Einordnnng und Anwe,ndungsasl~kte," pp.397-407 m Stoyan 19,5'6, (1986).Root, P,., "The Semantics of Anaphora ill Discourse," l'li.D.Thesis, Universit\[it Tiibingen, t:orschuagssteltc fiirnatiMichsprachliche Systeme, University of Te,xas at Aas-fin (May 1986).Stoyan, lI.
ed., GWAI 1986," 9th Germun Workshop onAr@cial Intelligence, 0uformatik-Fachberichte ), Springer,Berlin etc.
(19861.Wcbber, B.L., "So What Call We Talk AN.mr Now?," pp.331-371 inBrady 1983, (19831.2119
