IMPL~\[CI(TNESS~ A~:; A G(.lt~)I\[NG PRINC~itLEiN tV~AC~/li~NE TRANSLATIONKlaus SC~IIJBI!
;RTlgSO/Research, Postbus 834{L NI,.3503 RH Uhecht, The Netherlandsschubert@dill .uucpMultiling~,al cxtcnsibility requires an MT system t(~" have atau/,uagc-iudcpendcnt pivot.
It is mgtmd that au ideal, purely so.mastic pivot is impossil)le.
A translafiou method is descfihcd iuwhich scmantic relations m~ kept implicit in synlax, while file sc-manlic trails and distinetious am implicit in the words of a fllll-ftcdged language iisell as pivot.L l~iulfiiinguai e~tensibilityThere is an extcnlal fitctor with vcry substantial conscquenec,,;lot the internal design o1" machine translation systems: extenoaibility.
When a machine mmslation system has to allow lbradding m'bitrary soumc m~d target languages without each timeadaptint; the atmady existing pa~ts of the system, tim Reed ar-ises for at careftflly defiv.ed interface ~;tr,ctm'e to whichmodules R)r addithmal lauguagcs may bc linked.
The designthat besl lneets these requirements is the pivot or interl ingualappmac, h, since it~ such a system them is only a single inter-face whi,:b gives access it) all tim languages already includedin {itc system.In modeis of this type the only link hatween a source and aiarget lm~guagc is file in\[ermediale r lcwesentation, it has adouble lhnetion:1.
The intcrmediNe representation should render thete l  content of the iext being translated, with NI itsdetails aud mtances.2 The intermcdiae representation stmuld contain lheresnlts of Ihe grammatical nalysis cmTied out on thesom~:c text, wbem these chala('telistics aretranslation-relevant.
(t is desirable that the intermediate mpresc, ntation express boththe cnatem and the glammatical dlaracteristics of the texttmambit;aonsly, and since it is the interface to arbitrarylanguages, it should express them in a languageoindependentway.2o Lan!!
:m~,,e.indepet~de~Nt semantics?
't'o r(a~(.er tx)th the content aud the \[/HlCtiona{ features of atext is vsually taken to mean Nmlling them out in ~m appropri..ate way.
Tim intemmdiate mpresentNion provides a formalismt;or this puq)osc. '
Spelling out means maldng explicit.
Mymain concern here, is investigating to what extent he requiIede~q~lf,~:~L'm~s can bc achieved in a lmlguage-independentrt:p,esv,tation.
Am there language-independently validcategories and values \[or the characteris|ics of words trodwold groups needed in an intcimediate ~epresentation?
(Whenspeaking of grammatical analysis, I take grammar to denulcthe study of the entire in lema system of language, so thati;uth sy~ttax aml semantics on all levels between mmphemeaud text am stfl)liclds of grammar, l'ragmatics, by contrast,describes the inlluenee of extralinguistic factors on lauguageand is ~mt pa,'t of grammar; el.
Schubelt 1987b: 14f.
)The form of the linguistic sign is l~mguage-spccifi,=, wt~mcasits content ix nm'mally thought to be language,hldellcndenl.The content side of Ihe linguistic sign is therclorc ollel) as-sumed to he a good tart\[urn comparationis lot tra~mlationgrammar.
In oilier words, the lrallsfer slap fn)m a sytnacticfmYn in lhc source language to a conesponding lbrm th thetarget language is perlonned on lilt: hasis of iht; commonmeaning the two forms are supposed to have.As a consequence, an intermediate reprcsenlation is usuallydevised as a structure in which this common meaning is madeexplicit.
The intermediate r presentation is scan as a semanticequivalcnl of the source text.
For obtaining such a slrucmre, asyntactic analysis of the source text is by no mean:, superflu-ous.
An inlennediate representatim~ consists, like any system,of elements and their relations.
In a semantic system e lcmenls and relations ine semantic.
But ill order to detect theelements and their relations in a given text, a syniacticmaalysis is needed.
("Syntax-fi'ee semantic parsers" a, pply syn-tactic knowledge lacitly, and as a nile they work especiallywell for languages where the sequential mdet of "purely st:mantle" elements carries symactic thlbrmation.
)There are two major clusters of reasons why an ideal ~;cmanticintermediate representation of the language.independent l dsketched above is impossible, however desirable it may be i>_theory.Filet of 'all, tram are rm languagedndependeut sernanlic ale.manN.
Whatever symbols am chosen --words, moiplmmes,numbers, letter codes... -- they are ,always inherentlyI.mgtmge-bnund.
The elements of an artificial synthol systemare either directly taken from an existthg language, or have aaexplicit m implicit definition in a rcli.
',rcnce hmguage.
It is ira.possible to make a tufty language-independent sys em of sym.bols, if  it is to possess the f i l l  expressiveness of a hmnanlanguage (ef.
Schnbell 1986).
Symbols cannot be giveu ameaning independenlly of a reference hmguage; I\[leir meaningcan only become autonomous by being used th a languagecommunity during a long period.
This is why a plamle(tlanguage like Esperanto could not rank as a lhll.-fledged hn.nmn language fimn the very day the first textbook was pub.lished but had to develop slowly from ml artificial, refercncelanguage-dependent symbol system into m~ autotiomoushmguage by being used in a community (cf.
Sehnbeit fotthc.
).Perhaps this is an tmusuN argument in a eomtmtalkmal con.text, where people are u~d to defining symbol systems whichthey call "languages".
It shoukl be borne in mind, however,that such defined symlx)l systems am subsets of an existinghuman language (or o1' several).
Machine translation, by contrast, is concerned with translatin G texts between thunaulanguages, which hem a sem,'mtic point of view -- even if dielmlguage may be simplified or the text pre-edited-- are in-hermNy more complicated than artificial symbol systems.Not only are deft)ted semantic units in such systems referencehmguage-dependent, but the mad to the basic semantic unitsneeded is via semantic deeompositim~ - with all its we11-599known problems.
Scholars have for centuries been trying tofind universally valid semantic atoms (or primitives), but noneof the many systems uggested has met with acknowledge-ment or proved applicable on any wider scale.
Individuallanguages cut up and label reality in different ways; no under-lying "smallest semantic units" have been found as yet andpossibly they will never be found.
In my opinion the conclu-sion is that meaning is not portioned, so that no smallestportions can be found.Semantic atoms would be needed for totally spelling out thecontent of a text in a language-independent way, that is, insuch a way that it would be suited for translation into any ar-bitrary target language.
In many machine translation systems,ambitions are not that high.
Most often, intermediate r presen-tations use words or other language-bound symbols, decoratedwith semantic features which are held to be cross-linguistically valid.
Yet, what is true for semantic atoms ap-plies to semantic features as well, albeit in a less obviousway: They contain portions of meaning which do not functionin all languages in the same way.
That semantic atoms andfeatures are not as cross-linguistic as they seem to be, is alsosuggested by the experience that they are very hard to defineand delimit in a way that fulfils exactly the required function,or denotes precisely the intended distinction for a largenumber of languages simultaneously.
It is because of this thatintermediate r presentations often have to be adapted, attunedor even redesigned when a new source or target language isadded to the system.
Such representations fail to provide formultilingual extensibility.3.
Case framesThe second cluster of reasons for the impossibility of an ideal,purely semantic, intermediate representation concerns eman-tic relations.
One of the best-known approaches to makingsemantic relations explicit is Fillmore's ease grammar(1968).
Deep cases are often believed to be cross-linguisticallyvalid.
Although there are many substantial difficulties in del-imiting and labelling deep cases (cf.
Fillmore 1987), manymachine translation systems perform transfer with caseframes.
This works quite well to a certain degree, but slowlythe insight is gaining ground that deep cases nevertheless arelanguage-specific.
If case frames really were an autonomoustertium comparationis, translating on the basis of case frameswould mean just filling in target language forms in alanguage-independent case frame obtained from the sourcelanguage analysis.
But in reality case frame-based translationoften entails a transfer from a source language-specific caseframe to a target language one.
Evidence for this need comesfirst from general inguistics (e.g.
Pleines 1978: 372; Engel1980: 11), but recently alms up in computational linguistics aswell (Tsujii 1986:.
656; cf.
Schubert 1987a).
This is in con-cord with Harold Somers' (1987: viii) observation about thepopularity of case grammar, already declining in theoreticallinguistics, but still in vogue in computational pplications.Returning to the argument about a purely semantic system, itcan be concluded that neither the elements nor the relations,which together should constitute the theoretically desirablelanguage-independent intermediate r presentation, actually ex-ist.
This insight, among others, is the origin of the idea of im-plicitness in machine translation.4.
ImplicitnessSince there are no cross-linguistically valid semantic relations,and since case frames arc therefore language-specific, thetransfer step actually lacks a language-independent intermedi-ate stage.
This means that, where semantic relations are con-cerned, there is no tree pivot.
There are only source structuresand target structures with a transfer step somewhere betweenthem.
Given the notorious difficulties of defining deep cases,600the question arises whether it is really necessary for machinetranslation to make semantic relations explicit.
As they arelanguage-specific anyway, it is much easier to performtransfer at another level, which is language-specific as well,but about which there is much more certainty: syntax.
Iftransfer is carded out at the syntactic level, semantic deepcases can remain implicit.Before describing this in somewhat more detail, a few wordsabout the semantic elements.
If there are no language-independent semantic relations, looking for language-independent semantic elements does not seem worthwhile ei-ther.
Yet, the above discussion of the function of an inter-mediate representation e tails another unexpected implication:Since an intermediate r presentation is the only link betweensource and target languages, it must be as expressive as anyof them.
If high-quality machine translation is the goal, thiscondition is inevitable, since the intermediate representationhas to render and to convey the full and unsimplified contentof the text, to make further translation possible.
It must befeasible to translate into such an intermediate representationfrom all other languages.
Interestingly enough, this translata-bility criterion is the property by which human language isdistinguished from artificial symbol systems by one of theclassics of linguistics, Louis Hjelmslev (1963: 101).
Accord-ing to him, a human language (his term is dagligsprog) is alanguage into which all other communication systems (humanlanguages and artificial symbol systems) can be translated.
Asa consequence of Hjelmslev's theory, an intermediaterepresentation with the expressiveness indispensable for mul-tilingual high-quality machine translation should indeed be it-self a human language.Now the elements and relations in the semantic system of theintermediate representation can be considered together.
Thediscussion so far has yielded two results: There are nolanguage-independent semantic elements and there are nocross-linguistically valid semantic relations.
Moreover, the re-quired expressiveness entails the consequence that the inter-mediate representation should be a full-fledged language.If the pivot of a machine translation system is a language(rather than an artificial symbol system), this removes theproblems of spelling out semantic dements and relations.
Se-mantics can then be kept implicit, that is, it can be expressedin tile intermediate language by purely linguistics means, inthe way illustrated below.If the intermediate language is a full language, the syntacticside of the translation process comes down to performing twodirect translations: first from a source language into the inter-mediate language, and then from the intermediate into a targetlanguage.
Moreover, if one opts for a human intermediatelanguage, this brings about a substantial change in the designof a pivot-based mnltilingual machine translation system.
Ar-tificial intermediate representations are designed to achievemultilingual extensthillty at the level of transfer.
The condi-tions that provide for extensibility are thus directly intertwinedwith the mechanisms that translate from one particularlanguage into another.
But when the intermediate r presenta-tion is a language, multilingual extensibility shifts to anotherlevel: it is now catered for by the combination of languagepair modules in which the intermediate language is alwaysone of the two counterparts.
This considerably facilitates thedesign, since mullllingual extensibility with all its needs ofcross-linguistically valid grammatical elements and relationsno longer interferes with the translation steps proper.
For thistype of direct translation within a language pair, a translationmethod that performs the syntactic transfer on the basis ofsyntactic functions is both suitable and sufficient.A possible implementation of this idea is found in the meta-taxis translation method (Schubert 1987b: 222ff.).
It works onthe basis of language-specific syntactic functions and contras-tive transformation ntles that cater for the transfer step.
Meta-taxis mle,~; can be seen as contrastive lexical redundancyrules ore1' a bilingual dictionary.
Teehulcally speaking, theyare tree tt~msduction rules which presuppose the dictionary toconsist of tree-structured entries.
Metataxis is contrastivedependency syntax for translation.
Of course it is not the onlypossible way of performing the syntactic part of a machinetranslation procedure.
A dependency-based approach, howev-er, is esprit\[ally well suited for a multilinguul system, sincedependency syntax takes syntactic functions as its primaryunits, using syntactic form as a secondary means.
This is anessential enhancement, since syntactic functions- i.e.
depen-dency retation.s uch as subject, object etc.
- are translation-relevant, whereas yntactic form characteristics- uch as aword's Position vis-~t-vis other words, its endings for case,number, lerson, tense, mood, aspect e tc .
-  are needed formonolingual nalysis and synthesis steps in an overall transla-tion proo'.ss, but are not themselves directly translation-relevant).As for th?~ semantic side of the translation process, an inter-mediate representation tempts its designers to make explicit allthe semantic distinctionsneeded for specific source and targetlanguages, which ultimately leads astray if mnltilingual exten-sibility is aimed at.
This is the danger of an "exploding" pivot.If the pivot is a language, the degree of semantic detail it pro-vides can be taken as a natural limitation to this explosive terndency: An implementation is possible in which the entire se-mantic pn~cessing needed for a machine translation procedureis carried out with linguistic means in the intermediatelanguage only.
This means that whatever semantic elements orrelations are used, they are always expressed by means ofwords aria morphemes from the intermediate language.
No se-mantic ll;atures, no selection rules and no meta-linguistic la-bels or togs are used.
This is in good agreement with themetataxis approach to the syntactic side of the process: Meta-taxis provides all syntactically possible translations of a sourcesentence (clause, paragraph ._) and the semantic processingperforms a choice among these Alternatives.
(It normally needsa substanlial pragmatic augmentation witli knowledge of theworld etc; ef.
Papegaaij/Sehubert forthc.
: chapter 3.5.).
Thissemantic process can be carried out entirely in the intermedi-ate language and is titus suitable for metataxis altemativetranslations generated from whatever source language.The second half of the translation, from the intermediate intoa target lauguage, could in theory work in the same way, butthis would presuppose semantic processing in all the differenttarget lanl,,uages.
The requirement of extensibility is muchbetter met, if all the semantic processing for the second halfas well is carried out by means of the intermediate language.This is indeed possible.
The semantic-pragmatic processing inthe second half is - to put it in plain words - conceroed withfitting in the alternative translations offered in the bilingualdictionary (intermediate language ---> target language) into thecontext of the sentence and the entire text.
What is needed forassessing the probability of different contexts is informationabout he typical contexts of the words in question: word ex-pert knowledge.
It is possible to describe the typical contextsof target language words by means of words and phrases inthe intermediate language.
Thus all semantic-pragmatic com-parisons and probability computations are carried out ex-clusively in the intermediate language, and as a consequenceonly a single semantic system is needed for trattslatingbetween arbitrary languages: a system in the intermediatelanguage, ff rids central system is built up within the limita-tions of fl~e intermediate language without reference to anypeculiarities of p .a.rtieular source and target languages, the re-quirement of complete xtensibility is fulfilled.5.
Conch~slonAn inte.uediate language for high-quality machine translationneeds to he a full-fledged human language, due to the inherentlack of expressiveness that is an inevitable characteristic of ar-tificial symbol systems.
1 argue that one can make a virtue ofthis necessity: A human language as intermediate r presenta-tion allows for rendering the full content of the text withoutmaking semantic elements and relations more explicit thanwhat is expressed by appropriately interrelated words of theintermediate language.Of course the question arises whether, in that ease, any arbi-trary language would be suited for this function.
It should bepointed out, however, that the full range of trade-offs relatedto the choice of an intermediate language cannot be dealt within this three-page contribution.
My ideas about implicitnessare closely related to one of at least three fundamental criteriafor an intermediate language: expressiveness.
The other twoare regularity and semantic autonomy.
Only when all cri-teria are considered together, can a choice be made.ReferencesEngel, Ulrich (1980): Fiigungspotenz and Sprachvergleich.
VomNutzen eines semantisch erweiterten Valenzbegriffs iir diekontrastive Linguisfik.
In: Wirkendes Wort 30, pp.
1-22Fillmore, Charles J.
(1968): The ease for case.
In: Universals inlinguistic theory.
E. Bach / R. T. Harms (eds.).
New York:Holt, Rinehart & Winston, pp.
1-88Fillmore, Charles J.
(1987): A private history of the concept"frame".
In: Concepts of case.
Ren6 Dirven / Giinter Radden(eds.).
Tiibingen: Narr, pp.
28-36Hjelmslev, Louis (1963): Sproget.
Kcbenhavn: Berlingske forlag\[2nd ed.\]Papegaaij, B. C. / Klans Schubert (forthc.
): Text coherence in trans-lation.
Dordrecht/providence: ForisPleines, Jochen (1978): Ist der Universali~tsanspruch der Kasus-grammatik bereehtigt?
In: Valence, semantic case, and gram-matical relations.
Wemer Abraham (ed.).
Amsterdam: Benja-mins, pp.
335-376Schubert, Klans (1986): Linguistic and extra-linguistic knowledge.In: Computers and Translation 1, pp.
125-152Schubert, Klaus (1987a): Warm bedeuten zwei W6rter dasselbe?0bet Tiefenkasus als Tertium comparationis.
In: Linguistik inDeutschland.
Wemer Abraham / Ritva Arhammar (eds.
).Tiibingen: Niemeyer, pp.
109-117Schubert, Klans (1987b): Metataxis.
Contrastive dependency s ntaxfor machine translation.
Durdrecht / Providence: ForisSchubert, Klaus (forthe.
): Ausdmckskraft und Regelm~l\]igkeit.In: Language Problems and Language Planning 12 \[1988\]Somers, H. L. (1987): Valency and case in computational linguis-tics.
Edinburgh: Edinburgh University PressTsujii, Jun-ichi (1986): Future directions of machine translation.In: 11th International Conference on Computational Linguis-tics, Proceedings of Coling '86.
Bonn: Institut fiirangewandte Kommunikations- and $prachforschung, pp 655-668601
