Inheritance in Hierarchical Relational StructuresDerek P. LONGDept.
of Computer Science,University College London,Gower Street,London,ENGLAND.Roberto GARIGLIANOSchool of Engineering andApplied Science,University of Durham,Durham,ENGLAND.AbstractA brief survey is conducted of the inheritance principle - theconveyance of properties between components within a hierarch-ical relational structure.
The standard form of inheritance is con-sidered, using the subset (is-a) relation and highlighted as anexample of downward inheritance.
Downward inheritance isextended to specialisation of actions, and cases are presented inwhich the rule fails.sider them on tile same plane of generality and abstractness athe standard hierarchical inheritance rules.
Upward inheritance,on the other hand, is formally on the same plane as the morecommon downward form.
Our analysis shows that the explana-tion for this powerful tool resides in one semantical aspect of alarge class of very common relations.2.
Downward inheritanceAn alternative and less well-known form of inheritance is intro-duced - upward inheritance.
Several examples in which upwardinheritance is valid and others in which it is not valid are given,in a treatment highlighting the analogy with downward inheri-tance.
The validity of the rule, in those case in which itoperates, is underlined, to distinguish it from induction.A brief acconnt is given of tile search for the underlying reasonsfor the validity of inheritance rules and these are then given.The solution turns out to be due to a hidden or implicitquantifier within the relations that are used.
The semanticalnature of the problem and of its solution are stressed, emphasis-ing the impossibility of a purely syntactic analysis and solution tothe problem.
Various points of interest arising from the analysis,are listed and discussed.1.
IntroductionThe use of structures for representing knowledge has long beenacknowledged as a vital tool in AI.
A consequence of the use ofstructures is the identification of certain kinds of hierarchicallyorganised sub-structures.
These have many useful purposes, butone of particular significance is that of avoiding repetition, bystoring information at one place in the hierarchy, and then usingthe hierarchical structure to infer that the property is inheritedby many other components of the structure.
In addition to thesavings in storage that this inheritance over hierarchies can offer,there is the possibility of using the hierarchy to infer new infor-mation, so that the process becomes not just a means of savingspace, but also of generating new knowledge.The form of inheritance most frequently studied is what we call"downward inheritance", because it exploits the passage from thegeneral to the particular.
There has been a considerable amountof work done about inheritance between objects via total inclu-sion relations, for the very good reason that this form is alwaysvalid /Findler 1979/.
This form is sometimes confused withdownward inheritance betwen sets, which, as we briefly discussbelow, is much more problematic.We will concentrate on total hierarchical relations, betweenobjects, classes and actions.
The inheritance techniques that weconsider are thus completely valid.
The use of partial hierarchicalrelations introduces elements of plausibility which are beyondthe present context.
Touretzky provides a foundational analysisof partial hierarchies /Touretzky 1986/, while their use as thebasic structure for semantical analogy is described in Gariglianoand Long/Garigliano and Long 1988/.The concept that other relations, beyond set membership andinclusion, may have inferential properties has been investigatedby Schank /Schank 1977/ and especially Wilensky /Wilenskyt980/.
Their inferential rules, however, tend to capture specificaspects of real world interaction: it would thus be difficult to con-A typical example of the use of downward inheritance is theargument cats are vertebrates, vertebrates have back-bones, socats have back-bones.
We have also identified other hierarchicalrelations for which downward inheritance is valid: embroideringis a special form of sewing (or, embroidering "specialises" sew-ing), sewing requires kill, so embroidering requires kill.The most common use of inheritance - so common that it isoften the only inheritance rule discussed - is that which can beexpressed abstractly as: every element in A has property P, B isa subset of A, so all elements of B have the property P. This isthe rule exemplified by the cats and vertebrates above.A third kind of inheritance hierarchy is based on properties ofsets, rather than of individuals within the sets.
For example, Ican count the set of first-division footballers, Liverpool United isa subset of first division footballers, so I can count the set ofLiverpool United players.
It is clear that this is not the same asthe cats and vertebrates example, since the claim is about the setas a whole, rather than about the individual members.It is important o observe that the downward inheritance rule isnot universally valid.
To see this, consider the example: the Torygovernment was elected by the British people, tile Scots are asubset of the British, so the Tory government was elected by tileScots.
It is clear that this example leads to a false conclusion.
Wewill not attempt o explain all the conditions under which a rela-tion can be expected to have the downward inheritance rule forclasses in this work, but we do note that one important part ofsuch conditions can be the "homogeneity" of the class in the firstrelation with respect o the given property and the related entity/Garigliano and Long 1988/.
By homogeneity we refer to ameasure of the evenness of distribution of a property within aset.The downward inheritance rule for actions is also dependent oncertain conditions being satisfied by the first relation, as can beseen by the example: rolling pins are used in cooking, fryingspecialises cooking, so rolling pins are used in frying.
This isplainly false, so we may infer that there is some condition which"specialises" satisfies, but is violated by "are used in".
The solu-tion to this particular example is actually found in the discussionbelow.
There are other examples for which the solution is notquite so readily identified, but it is possible that tile solution isanalogous to that for classes, in adopting some measurement ofhorn ogeneity.A more dramatic example in which downward inheritance fails isthe following: cows eat plants, cacti are a subset of plants, socows eat cacti.
The inference is certainly false, but this exampleis of considerable interest since it appears to follow the same pat-tern as the cats and vertebrates example.
If we follow the direc-tion of Schank and Wilensky, adopting a set of primitives fromnatural language as the basis of our knowledge representation,we cannot, it appears, identify the inheritance properties of thoseprimitives by a simple syntactic check.
This follows from theobservation that the syntactic pattern of the cats and vertebrates384example was essential ly identical to that of the cows ~md plants,yet the inheritance rule is valid only in the first case.3.
Upward  inher i tanceWe cm~ intuit ively understand upward inherit~mce as a form ofinheritanc(: that goes from the specific to the general.
An exam-pie of such inheritance is the argument:  A is smaller than B, Bis a subset of C, so A is smaller than C.Further  examples are: a camera creates pictures, pictures arerepresental ions, hence a canrera creates representations.
A panis for cooking, cooking is a specialization of processing food,hence a pan is for processing food.Of coorse, the higher we go up the hierarchy, tile less usefitl theinformation derived may appear: for example,  if we substituteDoing Someth ing for Processing Food, the above inference isstill valid, but not very nsefid.
It is impo~tant to note, however,that when ihe relation is an upward one, then the deriving infer-ence is valid, not simply plausible.
There is no possibil ity of thisinferen,-e being some kind of induction: the explauation for it isto be fontal  elsewhere.As we ment ioned before, .just as not all relations allow down-ward inheritance, so too not all relations allow upward inheri-tance.
Here are some examples when the inference fails:John is allergic to cats, cats ~u'e vertebrates, hence John is aller-gic to vertebrates.1 can coun\[ the size of a football team, a football temu is a sub.set of the world population, hence I can couut the size of theworld population.Cats avoid swimming,  swimming specifies moving,  hence catsavoid moving.Al l  these e:~amples emphasize the hnpossibi l ity of nsiug a syntac-tic check to decide which relations offer a hierarchical inheri-tance, or, if they offer such an inheritance, which direction it isvalid for.The issue turns around the particular elal ions used; this clemlycalls for au analysis of the underly ing structure of these rela-tions.4.
When inher i tance is val idWe must  now attentpt o identify what property of a relation it isthat enables it to be used for upward or downward inheritance.First let us explore upward inheritance.
There is a strong clueavailable to us in our search in the fol lowing example:if x is a member  of A and A is a subset of B then x is amember  of 11.I lere we scc a set theoretic property which actually obeys theupward inhedtauce rule.
This is a very important example - it isnot hard to see why it works.
The reason that the property isinherited is i:hat although the relation "is a member"  relates anobject to a class, at the stone t ime it singles out a very specificpart of that class.
This part of the class must  be carried throughto any new class containing the original one.
Thus, the significantfeature of the relation, "is a member" ,  is that it carries an impli-cit act of restricting the part of the class to which it refers.Consider a further example: John owns a cat, cats are animals,so John owns an animal.
This is an instance of ~l upward inheri-tance rule that works, m~d the relation is "owns a".
If we exam-ine this relation we find that it has Ihe imalogons property forobjects that "is a mmnber"  has for classes -it implicitly restrictsthat object to which it refers out of all tile objects.
John does notown all cats, but only a single cat, in tile same way that notevery e lement in A is x, but only one.
Again, a frying-p~m is fi~rfrying, frying specialises cooking, so a fi'ying-pan is for cookingis an example of an upward inheritance over action.,;, using "isfor".
Here, too, we find that what is being said implicitly is thatthere is a conceivable instance of frying for which one conld usea frying-pan.
It does not mean that fi'ying must always be donewith a frying-pan - we could use a deep-fat fryer or a wok torexample.
Thus, when we extend frying to cooking we are actuoally referr ing to the same instance of frying ill which a frying-pancould be used, and ushlg the fact that this is also an instance ofcooking because frying specialises cooking.So, we have three examples of relations which have the upwardinheritance property mid seem 1o have an analogous property --for objects this property is that the relation specilies a particularobject of all the possible objects in a class.
For classes the pro--petty is that the relation highlights a subset of the class (in tile"is a member"  example this subset is'{x} ) and for actions theproperty is that the relation s~ccities a p,'u'ticular instance(though possibly hypothetical) of an action in which a certaincondit ion hohls.After a more formal analysis of these examples (considered indetail  in / Long  and Garigl iano 1988/) we lind tha!
for a tlansi-t i re and rel lexive hierarchical relation, such ~, "subset" or "speci--alises", a second relation has the upward inheritance property it" itcontains an implicit existential  quantif ier - lhat is.
if the relationimplies a property of a l imited parl of the class of objects towhich it refers, in sonte sense.
This sense has been made moreformal in / Long  and Garigli~mo 1988/.
Furthermore,  this condi-lion is shown to be both necessary and sntlicienl.A l ter  seeing tile pattern for npward inheritance, it is not difficultto lind tile pattern fk~r downward inheritance.
In this case, theinheritance works for reflexive and transitive hierarchies if andonly if the inherited property contai~s an implicit universalquantifier, in a sense which has been made formal.
For example,when we say "vertebrates have backbones", we a~:t~ally mean allvertebrates have a backbone.The analysis indicates that there is a very simple role lha.I allows\]us to convert  any relation into one for which tile upward int~cri-i tance rule operates and, conversely, for checLin,~,, it" ~n inhcrilance rule will work for a given relation.
FFor exeanple, suppose we take tile relation used above, John isallmgic to tats.
Now, if we modify "is allergic to" according t~ theanalysis, we may build the new relation, "is allergic to some",Thus, John is allergic to some cats, cats are vertebrates~ so Johnis allergic to some vertebrates.
It is quite clear that this new rela-tion has the property of upward inheritance, unlike the originalrelation.As an example of tile process of checking whether upward inher-itance will apply to a given relation, consider the following.
Wehave the relation "is smaller than", at)plied between sets, as usedin ~m example above.
In order to confirm that upward inheri.-truce call be applied with this relation we must  l ind the construc-tion that yields "is smaller than", given some starting relation.Consider the relation "one up on", defined by:A is one up on B i f f lA l+ 1 = IBtNow, "is smaller thmL" can be defined by:A is smaller than B fit" there is ,,;ome subset of B which is oneup on A.Thus, "is smaller .than" has upward inheritance with respect tothe subset hierarchy.ltl this case, the relation is a mathematical  one, so proving thatthe inheritance is valid is not difficult, even without tile insighlwe have gained, However,  for more general relations, borroweddirectly from natural language (in a Schank or Wi lensky style forprimitives) the insight provides the only tool we have to for--really prove an inheritance property.3~15There is a way o~ modifying a relation with an hnplicit existentialquantifier so that it becomes a relation with an implicit universalquantifier, in addition to simply adding the universal quantifier?
on top of the relation - we can restrict he domain of the relationby inserting "the, in front of each group of objects in thedomain.
For example:Johri eats fruit, apples are an~ong fruit so John eats applesis not valid.
Once we modify the domain, however, we obtain:John eats the fruit, the apples are among the fruit so John eatsthe apples.Now~ the use of "the" indicates a specification of an exact groupof fruit, F say, and of apples, say A, so "the apples are amongthe frnit" now means:every member of the set of apples, A, is in the set of fruit, F.What makes the inference correct is the peculiarity of the use of"the" in conjunction with the relation.
It means that the relationis true of every element in the group - so John eats every pieceof fluit in F.For several hierarchies we have studied there are perfectlyraeaningful and uncontrived relations which have neither theupward or downward inheritance rule.
For example, consider thefollowing:the Tortes were elected, for by forty per-cent of British, Scots area snbset of British, so the Tortes were elected by forty per-cento~" Scots.This is false, so the "elected by forty per-cent of" relation doesnot have downward inheritance over subsets.The Tortes were elected by forty per-cent of British, British are asubset of Europeans, so the Tortes were elected by forty per-cent of Europeans.Again, this is false.There are other hierarchies, such as "has part", which holdsbetween an object and each of its parts; for which very few rela-tions have any inheritance properties.
In this case it is becausethere are very few things that can be said of an object whichmnst be true of all its p~ats, or things which can be said of a partof an object which must be true of the object as well.
Positionalrelations seem to be the only useful relations - all parts of anobject mast be where the ohject is, though an object does nothave to be where one of its parts is.
For example, a tyre must bethere where there is a car, but a car does not have to be therewhere there is a tyre.Finally, we must highlight a consequence of these findings,which is that those relations for which upward inheritance holdsoccur in sentential forms with precisely the same type and struc-ture as those for which the rule fails.
The only distinguishingfeature that we have discovered and that accounts for everyexample we have considered is the implicit quantifier within thesemantic definition of the relation.
This leads us to concludethat the power of this rule of inheritance can only be availablefollowing a semantical analysis of the relations involved and willnot yieldto auy kind of syntactical or grammatical nalysis.like "is for" or "causes", to the mathematical relations uch as "isa member of" or "smaller than".We have, in our language, some relations which carry an iraplicitexistential quantifier and others which carry an implicit universalquantifier, but we can identify no particular eason that any ofthese relations should have developed in that way.
The impor~rant thing is that we are now able to build relations for whichinheritance will work, and also recognise those relations,amongst those we already have, for which the rule applies.The final point we wish to stress is that this analysis trengthensthe argument in favour of the semantical pproach to inferences.As we have pointed out before, the distinction between the rela?tions which allow upward inheritance, and those which do not,cannot be identified by pt, rely syntactical means, even if that dis utinction appears evident to the human ear, and easily recognis~able by a semantical nalysis.6~ ReferencesCharniak E. aild McDermott D. (1985), Introduction to ArtificialIntelligence, Addison Wesley.Findler N.V.
(ed.)
(1979), Associative Networks: Representationand Use of knowledge by Computers, Academic Press.Garigliano R. and Long D.P.
(1988), A Formal Model throughHomogeneity Theory of Adaptive Reasoning, PRG Monograph,Oxford, forthcoming.Long D.P.
and Garigliano R. (1986), Reasoning by Analogy: aFormal Model, in Tenth Annual Conference on MicroprocessorApplications, Strathclyde.Long D.P.
and Garigliano R. (1988), Inheritance Hierarchies.Schank R.C.
and Abelson R.P.
(1977), Scripts, Plans, Goals, andUnderstanding, Lawrence Erlbanm Press.Touretzky D. (1986), The Mathematics of Inheritance Systems,Kaufmann.Wilensky R. (1980), Understanding Goal-Based Stories, GarlandPublishing.5.
ConclusionsIn this paper we have described and analysed a technique, thense of inheritance, for transferring properties between com-ponents within total hierarchical ,~tructnres.
It is a powerful tech-nique, because it allows valid inferences, as well as being verynatural, since it models sentences that could occur in everydayuse of language.
At the same time, it is widely applicable, usingrelations which range from the common and simple such as"drink" or "wear", through the fundamental, primitive, relations3B6
