Funct iona l  Const ra in ts  in Knowledge-BasedNatura l  Language Unders tand ingLars AHRENBER(gDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceLinkSping UniversityS-581 83 LinkSping, SwedenTelephone +46 13282422Internet: LAH~IDA.LIU.SE UUCP: {mcvax,mannari,annet}!enealliuidaIlahAbst rac tMany knowledge-based systems of semantic interpretationrely explicitly or implicitly on an assumption of structuralisomorphy between syntaotic and semantic objects, handlingexceptions by ad hoc measures.
In this paper I argue thatconstraint equations of the kind used in the LFG- (orPATR-)formalisms provide a more general, and yet restrictedformalism :in which not only isomorphic correspondences areexpressible, but also many cases of non-isomorphic orre-spondences.
I illustrate with treatments of idioms, speech actinterpretation and discourse pragmatics.1.
Background and  purposeIn knowledge-based natural language understanding systemsthe role of syntax is by no means self-evident.
In the Yaleantradition /,~tchank & Riesbeck, 1981/ syntax has only played aminor role and whatever little syntactic information there is hasbeen expressed in simple terms.
Consequently, there is nogrammar as such and syntactic onditions are freely intermixedwith semantic onditions in the requests that drive the systemforward/13irnbaum & Selfridge, 1981/.
Similarly, in frame-basedsystems such as /Hayes, 1984/ the syntactic information isstated in ~:onjunction with all other information relevant forinstances ot a frame.
A justification for this approach, apart fromtransparency, is that it makes sense to say that part of ourknowledge of a concept is knowledge about how it is communi-cated.A major disadvantage of this approach is of course its lack ofgenerality.
To overcome this problem we may extract generalsyntactic knowledge' and make use of it in a syntactic parserwhich works alongside with the semantic analyser.
Examples ofsuch systems are PSI-KLONE /Bobrow & Webber, 1980;Sondheimer et ah, 1984/ and MOPTRANS /Lytinen, 1986;1987/.
The promise of these systems is that you get bothmodularity and integration, although there are many openquestions about how the integration can best be achieved.Moreover, one would I!ke to put the integration of syntax andsemantics, not just syntax and semantics per se, on a principledbasis, i.e.
we need a theory of how syntactic and semanticobjects correspond.
Linguistics and philosophy offer someguidelines here, such as compoeitionaiity, and a number ofdifferent theories, but a problem is that the semantic objectsconsidered are usually not knowledge structures.
/Hirst, 1987/,though, is an attempt at a principled, modular and integratedknowledge-based system where compositionality and a principleof strong typing provide the theoretical underpinnings.
Theseprinciples teem to provide a tighter straight-jacket than onewould really want, however, as indicated by the many structuresthat Hirst shows are problematic for his system.Another~ more recent approach is to capture correspondencesbetween syntactic and semantic objects through constraints/Halvorsen~ 1983; 1987; Fenstad etal .
,  1985; Kaplan, 1987/.
Anessential feature of constraints is that they simultaneouslycharacterize properties of a structural evel and  account for acorrespondence between those properties and properties ofanother level, i.e.
the level to which the constraint is attached.The correspondence may be between two different levels ofsyntactic structure, as in LFG, or between a syntactic structureand a semantic structure or conceivably between any twostructural aspects that constrain each other.
So far it seems thatconstraints have primarily been stated in the direction from formto meaning, where meaning has been regarded as inherent inlinguistic expressions and thus derivable from an expression,given a grammar and a lexicon.In a working system, however, we are not merely interested ina decontextualised meaning of an expression, but in the contentcommunicated in an utterance of an expression, which, as weknow, depend on world knowledge and context in more or lesssubtle ways.
A rather trivial fact is that we need to have anunderstanding of the context in order to find a referent for areferring expression.
A more interesting fact is that we oftenneed an understanding of context in order to get at theinformation which is relevant for determining the referent/Moore, 1981; Ahrenberg a 1987a,b; Pulman, 1987/.In a knowledge-based system, the knowledge-base provides anencoding of general world knowledge as well as a basis forkeeping track of focal information in discourse.
It seems anatural move to combine a knowledge-based semantics with thedescriptive legance and power of constraints, but as far as Iknow, not much work has been done in this area.
/Tomita &Carbonell, 1986/presents a knowledge-based machine-translationsystem based on functional grammar and entity-oriented parsing.In this paper I discuss the role of syntax in three general andrelated aspects of utterance interpretation: referentdeterminat ion ,  classif ication, and role identi f icat ion.
Ajoint solution to these problems will fall out if we assume, as isoften done, a simple, one-to-one structural (or categorial)correspondence b tween syntactic and semantic objects.
This isdone explicitly e.g.
by /Danleli et ah, 1987/ and /Hirst, 1987/and, so far as I can judge, implicitly in many other systems.However, the assumption is much too simplified and must beamended.
I will illustrate some cases where the correspondencesare more involved and argue that local constraints of the kindused in the LFG-formaiism /Kaplan & Bresnan, 1982/ are ableto handle them in a fairly straight-forward way.
Thus, instead ofad hoc-solutions the isomorphic ases will in this framework fallout as particularly simple instances of the general principles.2.
A f ramework  and a sys temI regard the process of interpretation as a process in which agiven object, the utterance, is assigned a description, theanalyMs.
The description has different aspects, primary amongthem being13- a constituent structure, (c-structure).
a functional structure, (f-structure),a semantic structure, (d-structure) and?
a content structure.I refer to these structural levels as aspects in order toemphasize the idea that they are all part of one and the sameinterpretation of the utterance.
The c-structure and thef-structure are roughly as in LFG /Kaplan & Bresnan, 1982/,but with some important deviations.
The functional structure isstrictly syntactic.
There are no semantic forms and hence nogrammatical notions of coherence and completeness.
Instead ofthe PRED-attribute, there is an attribute LEX whose value is a"lexeme", an abstract grammatical unit which in turn isassociated with semantic objects: object types, semantic attri-butes, and so on.The semantic structure is a descriptor structure ( 'dag ' )  justas the functional structure, but with descriptors pertaining tothe discourse referents accessed or made available by theutterance.
Thus, a constituent of the semantic structure consistsof a description that potentially applies to an object in theuniverse of discourse.
The content structure differs from thesemantic structure mainly in that referents for descriptions havebeen identified (where possible).If a c-structure, an f-structure and a d-structure apply to anexpression under a given interpretation they are said tocorrespond.
If, similarly, a sub-expression of the input isassociated with constituents at all three levels, these constituentsare said to correspond.Correspondences between c-structure and f-structure aredefined by an LFG-style grammar and a dictionary of stems and~.
affixes.
Correspondences between f-structure and d-structure aredefined by the lexeme dictionary and information in theknowledge-base.
Primary among the knowledge structures aretypes, attributes, and instances.
Every type is associated with aprototype, a frame-like structure whlch'defines what attributesapply to instances of that type, as well as restrictions on their values.Prototypes are also associated with functional constraints,thus defining possible correspondences between d-structures andf-structures.
For example, the attribute AGENT, beside otherrestrictions on its occurrence and values, may be assigned thecanonical constraint (~ SUB J) = ~.
The arrows in this schemahave the same interpretation as in the grammar ules: i" points tothe f-structure node corresponding to the description of whichthe attribute is part, ~ points to the f-structure nodecorresponding to its value.Semantic attributes may also be associated with contextualconstraints.
The context is represented by a special object, thediscourse state (DS), the description of which encodes thecontextual information that the system currently has available.In particular, this will include information about who is speakerand who is addressee.
A simple contextual constraint can bestated as =(DS SPEAKER), which when associated with anattribute asserts, the identity between its value and the currentspeaker.The relations between different structural aspects and theknowledge sources that define and constrain them are illustratedin figure 1.In the process of interpretation the analysis is ideallyconstructed incrementally.
When information is added to onestructural aspect and there is a constraint associated with thisinformation, we are justified in adding the information stated inthe constraint to the structural aspect o which it relates.
If thisis not possible, e.g.
due to the presence of contradictinginformation, the initial information can be rejected.14stringc structuref structured-structurecontentstructureLEXICAL-FUNCTIONALGRAMMARMORPHDICTIONARYLEXEME \]DICTIONARYgPROTOTYPES )DISCOURSE i STATEFigure 1: Structural aspects and their correspondencaLThe ideas presented here have been partially implemented ina system called FALIN, which is developed as a precursor to anunderstanding component of a dialog system (Ahrenberg,1987a).
1 The world of FAL IN  is a drawing-pad and itsknowledge cover simple geometrical objects that the user candraw and manipulate using natural anguage.
FALIN's parser (achart parser) is constructing a c-~tructure and an f-structure intandem, hut hands f-structures over to another module whichattempts to construct corresponding d-structures and contentstructures.
The content structure is then evaluated against heknowledge-base.3.
S t ruc tura l  I somorphyThe semantic aspects that this paper considers are three verybasic ones: (i) referent determination; to determine the set ofdiscourse objects (referents) that a given utterance relates to; (ii)classification; for each of these referents to determine their type,and (iii) role identification; to determine the relations theycontract with the other referents.
From the first task I thenexclude the problem of actual identification of referents,restricting myself to the task of deciding that there is a separateentity that some part of the utterance applies to.Now, we can formulate a general and practical principle,which is commonly used in semantic interpreters and whichoffers a solution to all three problems at once, namely aprinciple of structural i somorphy between syntactic andsemantic structure.
The basic tenet of this principle is that thereexists a level of syntactic representation (which I will callfnnctional structure here, but which may be represented invarious ways, e.g.
as a dependency structure) such that (a) everyreferent is expressed by some major constituent of the functionalstructure; (b) the type of a referent is given, directly orimplicitly, by (one sense of) the head of that constituent; and (c)two referents contract a role relationship iff their respectiveconstituents contract a grammatical relation in the functionalstructure.
These one-to-one correspondences between syntacticand semantic objects yield isomorphic syntactic and semanticstructures as long as we only consider the three mentionedaspects of semantic interpretation, and hence the name"structural momorphmm.
See figure 2 for a graphicalillustration.1 FALIN can be read .~'st Attempt at LINkfping Natural Language~nterface.Thus, no claims are made for other aspects of semantic inter-pretation, such as quantification or modification.SyN~fAXl - o.Tto-o,;~ - \ ]~EIV~AN'IICSCategore~natic Word1 ~ .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
~ Referent Type1 ,.
)Corl~,tituent 1\] ~ .
.
.
.
.
.
._> Referentl% : ........ J za~Constituent2 \].
.
.
.
.
.
.
-Categorematic Word2 Referent Type2Figure 2: Correspondences of syntactic and semantic objectsyielding structural isomorphism.It should t,e observed that the isomorphy principle allows forboth lexical and structural ambiguity, i.e.
it does not require~hat a given word, or grammatical relation can be interpreted inonly one way.
What it requires is a one-to-one correspondence ofsyntactic and semantic objects of the same interpretation.Moreover, structural isomorphy is riot the same ascomposition~,lity.
In one sense compositionality is morerestrictive since it applies to all ~mpects of semantic inter-pretation.
On the other hand compositionality is less restrictivesince it requites derivation trees to be i~omorphic, not consti-tuent structmea.
Howe?er, compositional systems too, e.g.
/Hirst198'1/, oi?~en ~ssume structural isomorphism for the aspects ofqco l | te rn  here .
~As an ilh~a~tration, consider (1).
Here the speaker can be saidto refer to hmr entities, a sale, a car and two male humans.
Thelast three rdate to the first as, say, Goods, Provider andReceiver, re~pectively.
Each of the referents corresponds to amajor constituent, he whole sentence for the case of the sale andsubject, direct object and indirect object for the others.
Also, thehead words as//, Jim, car and Englishman provide the typeinibrmation ~ stipulated.
(t) Jim sold the car to an Englishman.in the fi'aaaework used here we could have the followinggrammar rule, defining constraints on the functional structure:RI: S .... NP: (t SUBJ) = $ VP: T=$R2: VP -~ FV: ~'::~ NP:(~ OBJ) =: ~ PP*: (t POBJ)9R3: Pl?
,-~ P: ~':::$ NP: i'==~/I,4: NP -+ { (DET: ~:::~) N: ~::~ / PN: ~=:J.
}3 h:~ tlirst's ~lm~em prepositions and "pseudo.prepositions" (namedo?
()t~3 , OBJ, INDOB3) are the rdevaat syntactic objects hlstead ofi~r~mla~ical ~uactions.The morph dictionary associates functional constraints withstems and affixes as in the following illustrations.
Stems are alsoassociated with lexemes~ but affixes and function words are not.
4LI: cat'; N, (i" LEX) = !CAR, (T NUMB) = SING1,2: sold; FV, (j" LEX) = !SELL, (T TENSE) = PASTL3: the; DET, -~ , (1" SPEC) = DEFL4: to; P, - -  , (~" PCASE) = TOIn theappropriatelexeme dictionary lexemes are associated withsemantic objects.
This association may beone-to-many, but only one of the alternatives can be involved inan analysis, thus making the correspondence b tween head wordsand types one-t(r.one.
It may also involve object descriptionsrather than objects.
For instance, a proper name lexeme, such as!JIM, can have associations with known instances as well as witha description that can be used in the construction of a newinstance.
!SELL: { &Selll / &Sell2 / ... }!CAR: { &Carl / &Car2 / ... }!JIM: { Person67 / Person83 / Name18 /(TYPE=&Person, SEX=Male, NAME=NamelS) }Finally, the association between grammatical functions andsemantic roles is captured in the definition of the latter.
As attri-butes can be differentiated in very much the same way as objecttypes, these correspondences can be stated at an appropriatelevel of generality.
For instance, Provider may be analysed as adifferentiation of Agent and inherit its association with theSubject function from that attribute, it is also possible to havethese associations stated at the level of individual action types.
Ifwe want to express the difference between sell and buy as adifference in the role&ruction associations of Provider andReceiver~ we state the associations ii1 the definition of the twoaction types.
In any case the prototype of &Sell\] will turn out tobear the following inibrmation:(2) _ &SelllType;Provider;Receiver;Goods;Price;(T LEX) = !SELL(T SUBJ) =(t OBJ) =(T POBJ)~(i PCASE)  = TO(~ POBJ)-B($ PCASE)  = FORHere the associations are not just simply stated as a functionlabel associated with the role attribute, but correspondingfunctional descriptions are explicitly represented.
This is sobecause more than a mere function label may be involved and, aswill be shown below, the correspondences may be more complexthan this.The correspondences in a prototype should be read as a set ofcanonical correspondences.
Alternative correspondences can beobtained from lexieal rules just as in LFG-theory /Bresnan,1982a; cf.
also Halvorsen, 1987/.
Applying the Passive lexicalrule to (2) we obtain an alternative set of constraints, namely(2').4 Lexemc labels are indicatied by an hLitial exclamation mark.
Objecttypes are indicated by an initial '&'.15(2') __ &SelllType; (1" LEX) = tSELL(T ACT/PASS)  = PASSIVEProvider; /I POBJ)~ ~" PCASE) = BYGoods; (T SUB J) =Receiver; II POBJ)3 ~PCASE)  = TOPrice; (1" POBJ)~ J.
(I PCASE)  = FORThere are some reasons for stating the role-function corre-spondences as functional constraints induced by the semanticsrather than the other way round.
For one thing, definitions oftypes and attributes are needed for independent reasons and theintroduction of the functional constraints is merely a way ofencoding knowledge that pertains to them, i.e.
knowledge of howthey are communicated.
Moreover, subcategorization propertiesare semantically grounded, even if not absolutely predictable.4.
Cases of non- lsomorphtsm.4.1 Non- isomorphic  construct ions.
There are certainlinguistic construction-types that, at least on the surface~contradict he isomorphism principle, such as Equi, Raising,Longdistance dependencies and Gapping constructions.
However,in most cases it seems possible to eliminate the problems posedby these constructions already in the grammar and thus haveappropriate functions assigned to constituents at functionalstructure.4.2 Flexible idioms.
For simplicity we may characterize aflexible idiom as a complex expression with a definte meaningwhose parts may undergo variation and occur in non-adjacentpositions.
Fixed idioms, such as at once, back and forth, first ofall do not pose the same problems as they can be taken care ofalready at the c-structure level.
Most flexible idioms in Englishseem to involve a verb, such as make fun of, break someone'sheart, or make up one's mind.
Consider (3).
(3) He broke their hearts completely.At the c-structure and f-structure levels it is analysed in thesame way as any other sentence.
In particular, each constituentwill have its own LEX-dsecriptor:(4) -LEX IBREAKTENSE PASTSUBJ \[LEXOBJ ~LEX|NUMBPOSSIHE\]IHEART \ ]~PL\[LEX ITHEYObject types for both ordinary breaking and heart-breakingare associated with IBREAK in the lexeme dictionary.
Theobject type for heart-breaking also involve a reference to thelexeme tHEART, however.
The object type &Break-someone's-heart carries the following information associated withthe attributes of its prototype:16(5) __ &Break-someone's-heart:Type; II LEX) ---- 'BREAK / -~\]OBJ LEX)= 'HEART I\[ Cause; (T SUBJ)----- ~ L~patient; (1- OBJ POSS) = ?
_~This means that while there is a simple one-to-onecorrespondence b tween Subject and the role of Cause, the otherfunction-role correspondences involve structural distortions.They are still expressible by local constraints, however, and thisholds for any flexible verbal idiom where the fixed parts have agrammatical relation to the verb, or to some complement of theverb, i.e.
for the great majority of verbal idioms in the language.In some cases a part of the idiom may play a double role.
Onthe one hand it is part of the expression of the idiom and on theother hand it brings with it a referent of its own.
Consider thefollowing discourse:(6) A: He hasn't shown his face here for the last couple ofweeks, has he?B: Who wants to see it anyway?To describe the fact that the phrase hie face can express areferent we may allow for this possibility in the statement ofcorrespondences in the protytype for the action.
(7) __  &Show-one's-face:Type;Agent;Object;Location;Ii LEX) = ISHOWoBJ LEX) = ~FACEOBJ  POSS LEX) = IREFL(T SUB J) =(~ OnJ) =I~ ADV)~PCASE) = LOC4.3 Const i tuted discourse objects.
An utterance is itself adiscourse object, i.e.
it may be referred to in the discourse thatfollows.
When this happens the utterance will be classified oneway or the other, as in utterances of the following sort:81 That is a difficult question to answer.I think your statement needs clarification.Except for performative utterances there is no head word in theutterance that can be used to for its classification, however.Instead the classification will have to rely on other information,such as clause-structure and punctuation.Speech-act interpretation is often regarded as somethingentirely different from semantic interpretation proper.
This, Iwould argue, is a mistake.
Illocutionary categorization isconstrained by words and world knowledge in very much thesame way as categorization of other referents?
The essentialdifference between the illocutionary act as a referent and otherreferents is that the illocutionary act come into being with theutterance of the words, whereas the other referents existindependently.
This means that we can postulate (at least) twoways in which an uttered expression relates to discoursereferents, first, it relates to referents described by the utterance,and second, to referents constituted by the utterance, inparticular the illocutionary act.
The analysis of an utterancewould be incomplete if it does not include a classification of theutterance, as well as the discourse objects that fulfils the roles ofSpeaker and Addressee.
(10) Show me the files.5 Similar problems arise with sentences each as The question is why hedid it, The fact is that he did i~ where the subjects are notinterchangeable: *The fact is why he did it.Consider now how (I0) may be analysed.
Let us classify it bymeaus of the object type &Directive which we assume to besupertype for commands, orders, directions and similar ~Jpeechacts.
The prototype for this type may be assigned the followingset of constraints (as one alternative):(11) __ &DirectiveType;Speaker;I Addressee;lAct ion;(~ MOOD) = IMPERATIVE-=(DS SPEAKER)=(DS ADDRESSEE)~=~In order to distinguish objects being described from objects beingconstituted w~ distinguish two modes of correspondence.
The~-arrow indic~..tes" an f-structure node corresponding in consti-tutive mode.
6 The schema associated with the Action attributesays that the f-structure node corresponding to the d-structurenode for the directive in constitutive mode actually coincideswith the f-str~mture node describing the action being directed,thus encoding the one-to-two relation between the utterance andthe discourse objects it relates to.4.4 Impl ied  referents  a~d types.
As is well known, insituated discol~rse we regularly do not give explicit expression ofthe referents being talked about as such information can beinferred from the context.
Obvious illustrations are given byshort answers to questions as in (12).
Similarly, we may suppresshead words if t~hey are inferrable, as in (13).
(12) - Who is the manager of the sales department?- J im l~mith.
(13) I've go~ many more at home.There are ~wo ways to react in the face of such "elliptic"utterances.
One way is to say that they require special pragmaticheuristics which are independent of the principle of structuralisomorphism (and vice versa) and thus simply regard them asirrelevant.
However, this makes the principle limited inapplication.
It would be better to have more general principles ofutterance intelpretation that together covers both elliptical andnon-elliptical utterances.
Again, contextual constraints inconjunction with ordinary functional constraints can do part ofthe job ibr us.A phrase such as Jim Smith in itself does not give muchinformation of course.
However, when it is uttered in reply to aquestion, as in (12), it will have quite a well-defined meaning.
Inthe definition of tiJe utterance type &Answer, we may thusinclude, beside attributes for Speaker and Addressee, also anattribute indiq',ating what question is being answered.
Thisquestion can be retrieved from the discourse state, where it wasput when it was raised and kept until it is answered or dropped.
(14) __ _ &AnswerType; (~ MOOD) = DECL~peaker; = (DS SPEAKER)Addressee; : (DS ADDRESSEE)Question; e (DS QUESTIONS)_Answer; ~ = 16 This use of the symbol '1~' should \]Lot be confused with its use inBresnau (1982a}~ where it is part of the description of long-distancedependencies.5.
Restrictiona on proper correspondenceIt would be premature to attempt an explicit characterizationof the correspondence r lations between the structural aspects ofan analysis, especially as important aspects of semantic inter-pretation have not even been considered.
In this final section Itherefore only summarize the general ideas, pointing out howthey differ from structural isomorphism and state a fewnecessary conditions on the correspondence b tween f-structureand d-structure.The referent descriptions conveyed by an utterance areconstrained by linguistic form (functional structure) as well asby conceptual knowledge (prototypes) and context-of-utterance(discourse state).
A referent need be given no overt expression inthe utterance if it is inferable from a prototype and/or from thecontext.The constraints themselves need not be one-to-one, contraryto the principle of structural isomorphy, but they are local in thesense that they can only refer to (i) structures corresponding toeither (a) the object that induces them, (b) the object of whichthat object is an immediate part, or (c) other dependents of thatdominating object, or (ii) objects of the discourse state.To capture speech-act interpretation we recognize two modesof correspondence, one based on the relation descrip-tion-described object, and the other on the relation utterance~constituted act.The f-structure is a syntactic structure, which means that itmust be a minimal structure satisfying the constraints inducedby the c-structure.
However, it must also correspond properlywith the d-structure.
To account for this correspondence wemust first realize that not all functional attributes need besemantically relevant e.g.
those indicating rammatical gender.
If?
is an f-structure, ?8 will indicate an f-structure obtainedm .
.from ?
by subtraction o~ semantmally irrelevant paths.Thus, we get the following conditions on proper corre-spondence between d-structures and f-structures:(1) A d-structure, 6, and an f-structure, ?, are correspondingproperly in descriptive mode, only if(a) 6(Type)~ g(?
(LEX)), where g is the function defined bythe lexeme dictionary;(b) There is a prototype, /'/, for 6(Type) such that (i) 6satisfies the conditions'' of //, and (ii) Cesta is a minimalHfostructure satisfying all functional constraints reduced by rthe role attributes at top level of 6.
(e) For any sub-structure~ 6', of 6, there is a sub-structure, ?
',of ~, such that 6' and ?'
correspond properly in descriptivemode.
(2) A d-structure, 6, and an f-structure, ?, are correspondingproperly in constitutive mode, only if(a) There is an utterance-type, D, and a prototype, IID, for/2,such that 6 satisfies the conditions of / /_ .
IJ(b) ~b is a minimal structure satisfying all functionalconstr~nmts induced by / /~ for the role attributes at top levelof ~.
(c) as l(c).6.
AcknowledgementsThis research as been supported by the Swedish National Boardfor Technical Development.
I am indebted to Magnus Merkeland the other members of the Natural Language ProcessingLaboratory at Link6ping university, Mats Wirdn, Arne J6nssonand Nils Dahlbllck for valuable discussion of these topics.177.
\]~eferencesAhrenberg, L. (1987a): "Parsing into Discourse ObjectDescriptions."
Proceedings of the Third European Chapter ACLConference, Copenhagen, April 1-3, 1987, pp.
140-147.Ahrenberg, L. (1987b): Interrogative Structures of Swedish:Aspects of the Relation between Grammar and Speech Acts.Doctoral diss.
Uppsala university, department of linguistics,RUUL 15.Bobrow, R. J.
& Webber, B. L. (1980): "KnowledgeRepresentation for Syntactic/Semantic Processing."
Proceedings,1st Annual National Conference on Artificial Intelligence, pp.316-324.Bresnan, J.
(ed.)
(1982a): The Mental Representation ofGraramatical Relations.
The MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass.Bresnan, J.
(1982b): "The Passive in Lexical Theory."
InBresnan (1982a), pp.
3-86.Danieli, M., Ferrara, F., Gemello, R. and Rullent, C. (1987):"Integrating Semantics and Flexible Syntax by ExploitingIsomorphism between Grammatical and Semantical Relations.
"Proceedings of the Third European Chapter ACL Conference,Copenhagen, April 1-3, 1987, pp.
278-283.Fenstad, J. E., Halvorsen, P-K, Langhohn, T. and van Benthem,J.
(1985): Equations, Schemata nd Situations: A framework forlinguistic semantics.
Manuscript, CSLI, Stanford University.ttalvorsen, P-K (1983): "Semantics for Lexical-FunctionalGrammar."
Linguistic Inquiry, 14:4, 567-615.Halvorsen, P-K (1987): Situation Semantics and Semantic Inter-pretation in Constraint-based Grammars, Technichal ReportCSLI-TR-87-101.Hirst, G. (1987): Semantic Interpretation and the Resolution ofAmbiguity.
Cambridge University Press.Kaplan, R. (1987): "Three Seductions of ComputationalPsycholinguistics."
In Whitelock etal.
(eds.)
1987: 149-188.Kaplan, R. & Bresnan, J.
(1982): "Lexical-Functional Grammar:A Formal System for Grammatical Representation.
I  Bresnan1982a: 173-281.Lytinen, S. L. (1986): "Dynamically Combining Syntax andSemantics in Natural Language Processing."
Proceedings ofAAAI '86, pp, 574-578.Lytinen, S. L. (1987): "Integrating syntax and semantics."
In S.Nirenburg (ed.
): Machine Translation, Cambridge UniversityPress 1987, pp.
302-316.Moore, R. C: (1981): "Problems in Logical Form."
Proceedings,19th Annual Meeting of the ACL, Stanford July 1981, pp.117-124.Pulman, S. (1987): "The Syntax-Semantics Interface."
InWhitelock et al (eds.)
1987: 189-224.Sondheimer, N. K., Weischedel, R. M. and Bobrow, R. J.
(1984):"Semantic Interpretation Using KL-ONE'.
Proceedings of Coling'84~ Stanford University~ Cal.
2-6 July 1984. pp.
101-107.Tomita, M. and Carbonell, J.G.
(1986): "Another StrideTowards Knowledge-Based Machine-Translation."
Proceedings ofCOLING'86, pp.
633-638.Whitelock, P., Wood, M. M., Somers, H. L., Johnson, R. andBennett P. (1987): Linguistic Theory & Computer Applications,Academic Press, 1987.18
