Presuppos i t ions  as Be l ie fsDiane  HORTON and Graeme H I I : tSTDepar tment  of Computer  Sc ienceUn ivers i ty  of " ib rontoToronto ,  Canada M5S 1A4d ianeh@ai .
to ronto .edu  (CSNET)Abst ractMost theori~s of presupposition implicitly assume that pre-supposition,; are facts, and that all agents involved in adiscourse share belief in the presuppositions that it gen-erates.
These unrealistic assumptions can be eliminatedif each presupposition is treated as the belief of an agent.However, it ~s not enough to consider only the beliefs of thespeaker; we show that the beliefs of other agents are ofteninvolved.
We describe a new model, including an improveddefinition of presupposition, that treats presuppositions abeliefs and considers the beliefs of all agents involved inthe discourse.
We show that treating presuppositions abeliefs makes it possible to explain phenomena that cannotbe cxplainecl otherwise.1 I n t roduct ionIn addition 'I;o its literM meaning, a sentence or utteranceconveys a host of indirect information that can be prag-matically in~rred.
Presuppositions, whidl we mark ">>",are one pa~'t of that information.
Table 1 gives several ex-amples of presupposition with their traditional analyses 1.Roughly, a presupposition is a proposition that is con-veyed by a sentence or utterance 2 but is not part of themain point, and must be consistent with the establishedcontext in order for that sentence or utterance to be fe-licitous.
For example, the following is infelicitous becausethe second .,~entence presupposes that Angle quit, whichcontradicts the first sentence:(1) *Angle didn't quit.
It's surprising that she quit.Other types of pragmatic inference include entailment,conversational implicature, and conventional implicature(see Levinson (1983) for detailed descriptions).
Presuppo-sitions can be distinguistmd from other sorts of pragmaticinference by their unique behavior when the sentence fromwhich they originate is negated.
These basic ideas aregenerally agreed upon; however, their formalization into atheory of presupposition has been difficult.
We will nowintroduce two problems and our approach to solving them.1 Throughout this paper, we use the sentence itself a.q short formfor its semantic representation, i  order to avoid addressing the or-thogonal issu*., of semantic representation.2The sentence/utterance distinction will be made clear in the pre-sentation of ouc approach.Horton (1987) reviews several theories, includingthose of Karttunen (1973, 1974), Karttunen and Pe-ters (1979), Wcischedcl (1975, 1979), Gazdar (1979a,1979b), Wilson and Sperber (1979), and Atlas and Levin-son (1981).
One problem is that many theories ofpresupposition iiaplicitly make the' following unrealisticassumptions s:?
T ruth  Assumption: If sentence S (or its utterance) pre-supposes proposition P, then P is true.?
Shared Belief Assumption: If sentence S (or its ut-terance) presupposes proposition P, then all agentsinvolved share the prior belief that P is true.Weischedel and Gazdar are exceptions; e~tch of them at-tributes presuppositions to the speaker as either knowl-.edge or belief.
However, we will show th~tt he beliefs ofagents other than the speaker must be considered in orderto correctly express many presuppositions.
Our ai)proachis to treat presuppositions a beliefs, but a.lso to considerthe beliefs of all agents involved in discourse.A second difl~culty has been in finding an adequatedefinition of presupposition.
Many definitions tate thatthe presuppositions of a sentence must be known prior tothe utterance of that sentence to avoid infelicity.
Somehave the stronger constraint that the presuppositions mustbe mutually known by all participants.
The following def-inition (Levinson 1983, 205) has these properties:DEFINITION 1: An utterance A pragmat ica l ly  p resup-poses  a proposition B iff A is appropriate only if Bis mutual ly known by participants.These requirements, which reflect the Shared Belief As-sumption, are too strict - -  presuppositions are often usedto introduce new information.
Conversely, many defini-tions accept inferences from the other inference classes aspresuppositions.
Our definition, to be presented in sec-tion 3.2, weakens the overly strict prior knowledge condi-tion so that it does not reject valid presuppositions, andavoids accepting inferences from other classes by checkingwhether each candidate xhibits the distinctive behaviorunder negation that signifies a presupposition.
Hence, thenew definition captures presupposition more precisely.The next section describes the unique behavior of pre-suppositions under negation.
In section 3 the details of our3Here both sentences and utterances are mentioned because theassumptions are generally made when either is analyzed.255II' .
.
.
.
.
~!ggerFaetive verbIt:cleftChange-of-state v rbNon-restrictive r lative clauseImplicative verbDefinite descriptionVerb of judgingExampleRita is upset that Jenny lied.>>Jenny lied.It was ~Pauline who told Arthur about Miehelle.>>Someone told Arthur about Miehelle.Tom finished making dinner.>> Tom had been making dinner.Kerry, who is Jay's son, was married last month.>>Kerry is Jay's son.Morn forgot to call.>>Morn intended to call.Tire person who stole Dr. Legg's file used a key.>>There is a person who stole Dr. Legg's file.I congratulated Lois when she finished her thesis.>>For Lois to finish her thesis was a good thing.Table 1: Some common triggers of presupposition, with examples.approach are presented.
We then compare our analysiswith that of Gazdar, and conclude with a summary.2 Behavior under NegationIt is often stated that  presuppositions are constant undernegation, as in example 2, but are also defensible.
By thisview, the presupposition i example 3 remains constantunder the negation in the first sentence, but is later de-feated by the second sentence.
(2) Calvin {did I didn't} stop going to college.>>Calvin had been going to college.
(3) I don't wish I had a Porsehe - -  I already have one.~ I  don't have a Porsche.Our explanation of this behavior is different.
Before pre-senting it, some terminology must be introduced.We will make the following semantic distinction be-tween two kinds of negation.
In terna l  negat ion has aparticular element of its scope as its focus, in the sense ofthe terms defined by Quirk and Greenbaum (1973, 187-188).
Externa l  negat ion focuses on an unspecified com-ponent of its scope and therefore has several possible inter-pretations.
The following sentence contains external nega-tion.
It has at least three interpretations:(4) The boogieman didn't blow the door shut.
(a)  It's stiff open.\[ negating the main proposition \](b) There is no boogieman.\[ negating a presupposition \](c) It was already shut.\[ negating a felicity condition \]The focus of internal negation is unambiguous.
If thatfocus is on a presupposition, the presupposition, of course,does not survive the negation, as in the following:(5) Mark, who has a Ph.D., is the president.>>Mark has a Ph.D.(6) Mark, who doesn't have a Ph.D., is the president.~Mark  has a Ph.D.Internal negation that focuses on anything other than apresupposition does not affect that presupposition, be-cause presuppositions do not depend on tile truth of anyother thing expressed by the sentence.
For example, thepresupposition of sentence 7 still holds when the mainproposition is negated.
(7) Debbie, who has a dog, {does I doesn't} have cats.>>Debbie has a dog.External negation is inherently vague.
We argue thatit is handled as follows.
One first checks to see if there isany evidence favoring one of the possible interpretations.If a presupposition contradicts any established informa-tion, one assumes the intended reading negates that pre-supposition; hence the presupposition is never believed tohold.
We will call this the blocking of a presupposition.In the absence of any evidence to guide one in choosingan interpretation, one assumes that negation of the mainproposition was intended, and hence that the presupposi-tion stands.
This assumption might be either supportedor refuted by information to follow.
If it is refuted, thenthe incorrect presupposition must be retracted.Our analysis of example 3 then, is as follows.
Thenegation in the first sentence is ambiguous and, on hearingthat sentence alone, the hearer assumes a reading wherethe focus of negation is on wish and the presuppositionis left intact.
That is, the hearer assumes the intendedreading was I don'~ have a Porsehe, and I don't want one.On hearing the second sentence, the hearer learns that thisassumption was incorrect, and the presupposition that Idon'~ have a Porsche is retracted.In summary, a presupposition survives semanticallyinternal negation exactly when the negation does not fo-cus on the presupposition itself.
It is assumed to survivesemantically external negation unless there is evidence tothe contrary, in which case it is blocked.
If not blocked, it256may be retracted later if the assumption is shown to be in-correct by evidence that follows.
We use the term defeatto subsmne both blocking and retraction.
Horton (1987,sec.
1.2) shows that this behavior distinguishes presuppo-sitions from entaihnents and implicatures.3 Presuppos i t ions  as Bel iefsThe at)proach proposed here is to treat each presuppositionas the belief of some particular agent in order to avoid ~heassumptions of truth and shared belief and thereby arts.ina more reatistie account of presupposition.
In addition, wepropose considering all agents when deciding to whom timbelief should be attributed.Before continuing, we will point out our assumptions.Following Griee (1975), we assmne tlrst that no speakerwill deliberately try to deceive the listener, and secondthat no speaker will use irony or sarcasm.
Deceit, irony,and sarca,;m cart affect presuppositions, and the possibilityof handling them is discussed by tIorton (1987).3.1 A Logic for Modeling ContextIn (Hortoi, 1987) a formal logic of belief is defined.Its syntax allows the expression of propositioils uch as.l~JohnBMary-'P (that is, dohn believes that Mary believesP is not true).
Its semantics i based on bel ief  struc-tures,  a w~riant of Fagin, Halpern, and Vardi's knowl-edge s t ruc tures  (1984).
A belief structure ncodes whatWill be called a s tate  - -  the truth wdue of each proposi-tion, as well as the beliefs of each agent regarding thesepropositions, their beliefs about the other agents' beliefs,and so on.
If a proposition P is true for a belief struc-tures ,  wewr i tes  ~P; i fnot ,  wewr i tes  ~P .
We alsoinfornmlly describe operations Add Proposition, which up-dates a belief structure to encode a new belief for someagent, and Retract Proposition, which retracts a proposi-tion from an agent's beliefs.
These operations can bc usedto model the acquisition and retraction of presuppositiomflinformation by agents.
Formal definitions of these opera-tions raise difficult problems that wc have not solved.
See(Horton 1987, 37--42).
However, the logic does provide anotation a,ll,:l formal semantics for the expression ofbeliefs.3.2 The Definition of PresuppositionWe now present a definition of presupposition that em-bodies the idea of attributing presuppositions to specificagents, and incorporates our view of the behavior of pre-supposltion.,~ under negation.The presuppositions of an utterance depend not onlyon the sentence uttered, but also on the speaker, the lis-tener, and the listener's beliefs, since only the listener'sbeliefs affect the cancdlation of presuppositions for him.One sometimes wishes to speak of presuppositions whennot all of this contextual information is known.
In partic-ular, it is desirable to be able to discuss presuppositionsof a sentence independent of any context of utterance.
Insuch cases, it is not possible to perform a consistency checkto determine whether or not a candidate will actually turnout to be a presupposition; but one can say that if thenecessary information were available and if the proposi-tion were consistent with established information, then theproposition would be a presupposition.
We will define po-tent ia l  p resuppos i t ion  to capture this notion of a can-didate presupposition that may turn out to hold when thesentence is completely situated, and actual  presuppos i -t ion to denote a potential presupposition that does turnout to hold 4.In the definitions below, S ~ is used to rel)resent tileaffirmative form of sentence S, and S -  to represent theexternally negated form of the sentence.
We will use theterm state  to refer to a state of affairs, as represented bya belief structure.Potential PresuppositionThe definition of potential presupl)osition for when onlythe sentence is known is as follows:DEHNI'rlON 2: Sentence S potent ia l ly  presui )posest)roposition P iff for any speaker Sp, listener L, andstate a,(a) The utterance of S + by Sp to L in state s wouldallow L to infer Bs'vP.
(b) The utterance of S -  by Sp to L in state s wouldallow L to infer BspP unless L already believedBsp~P, i.e., unless s ~ BLBsp'-P.Clause (a) says that if the a~rmative form of the sentencewere spoken, any listener could infer that the speaker be-lieved P. Clause (b) says that even if the negative ibrmof the sentence were spoken, any listener could still inferthat the speaker believed P, unlc'ss the listener already be-lieved otherwise.
A definition with clause (a) alone wouklcapture other pragmatic inferences as well as presupposi-tion.
Since clause (b) requires that the candidate xhibitthe behavior under negation that is unique to presupposi-tion, it excludes the others.
See (Herren 1987, sec.
4.5) forexmnples.Actual PresuppositionAn acttml presupposition of a sentence completely situ-ated in context must be a potential presupposition f thatsentence and consistent with the context.DEFINITION 3: The utterance of sentence S by speakerSp in state s actual ly  p resupposes  propositionBspP for listener L iff(a) P is a potential presupposition f S.(b) If S = S- ,  s ~ BLBSp~P.In keeping with our philosophy of treating presupposi-tions as beliefs, clause (b)  checks whether the spe~rkerbelieves the potential t)resupposition according to the lis-tener.
Since blocking can only occur in negative sentences,4See section 4 for a comparison ofour concepts of" potential andactual presupposition with Gazdt~r's "pre-supl)osition" and "act, ualpresupposition.
"257this check is only performed on negative sentences ( ee sec-tion 3.4 for a qualification).ExampleConsider the utterance of S = I'm not glad that Chris isleaving by Tom.
Let P be Chris is leaving, and the statebe s where s ~ BDianeB:romP, s ~ BDia,~eBTom~P, ands ~ BcothieBTorn~P.
The sentence is Mready externallynegated, so o e -  = S, and S + = It is ndt true that l'm notglad that Chris is leaving, which is equivalent to I'm gladthat Chris is leaving.For any speaker Sp, listener L, and state s, the utter-ance of S + by Sp would allow L to conclude BspP.
Wecan confirm this by noting that the utterance of I'm gladthat Chris is leaving, but he isn't would be infelicitous.
Inaddition, the utterance of S -  by any speaker Sp wouldalso allow any listener L to conclude BspP, unless it wereinconsistent with L's beliefs.
Therefore, P is a potentialpresupposition of sentence S.P may or may not be an actual presupposition ofthe utterance of S by Tom in this state, depending onwho is the listener.
Diane has no particular belief aboutwhether or not Tom thinks Chris is leaving.
In partic-ular, s ~ BDi~n~B:ro,~P.
Therefore, B~'omP is an ac-tual presupposition to Diane of the utterance of sentenceS by Tom, in this state.
However, Cathie has the pre-vious belief that Tom thinks Chris is not leaving, i.e.,s ~ BcathleBTom'~P.
Therefore, BTomP is not an ac-tual presupposition to Cathie of the utterance of sentenceS by Tom, in this state.3.3 App ly ing  the  Def in i t ionsHorton (1987, ch.
5) applies the definitions, in the man-ner shown above, to a representative s t of sinlple sen-tences, and shows that the presuppositions of many sen-tences must be treated as beliefs.
For example, sentence 8does not potentially presuppose Brian's leaving was bad, asshown by the felicity of 9.
However, under our assumptionthat all speakers are sincere, it does potentially presupposeBpe~(Brian's leaving was bad).
(8) Percy criticized Brian for leaving.
(9) Percy criticized Brian for leaving, but there was noth-ing wrong with him leaving.In the case of utterances, all presuppositions must betreated as the beliefs of the speaker, but many can becorrectiy expressed only if the beliefs of agents other thanthe speaker can also be mentioned.
For example, considerthe following utterance of 8:(10) Mavis: Percy criticized Brian for leaving.~Br ian 's  leaving was bad.~ BM~i~( Brian's leaving was bad)>>BM~,i,Bpercy( Brian's leaving was bad)Because our approach models the beliefs of all agents, it iscapable of correctly handling these cases.For complex sentences~ one can either again apply thedefinitions directly or attempt o find rules for determining25~1the potential presuppositions of the sentence from those ofits constituents.
Horton (1987, chapter 6) examines thisp ro jeet ion  prob lem and shows that beliefs are again im-portant.
For example, when sentence 11 is embedded inthe context of the verb hopes, another level of belief is nec-essary to expres's the potential presupposition correctly.
(11) Lofty is sorry that he upset Willie.>> BLof,u( Lofty upset Willie).
(12) Ethel hopes Lofty is sorry that he upset Willie.>> BEtheZBLol~( Lofty upset Willie).The felicity of sentenee 13 below shows that 12 does notsimply carry the potential presupposition, BLoltu(L@yupset Willie), of its constituent 11.
(la) Ethel hopes Lofty is sorry that he upset Willie.
Shedoesn't reMize that Lofty doesn't even know he did.Any account hat does not treat presuppositions a beliefscannot capture the presupposition i 12 and must incor-rectly consider verbs of propositional ttitude such as hopes(as well as verbs of saying) to block this projection, Evenan account hat treats presuppositions a beliefs, but con-siders only the beliefs of the speaker, cannot capture thispresupposition.The initial motivation for treating presuppositions abeliefs was to avoid two unrealistic assumptions.
We havenow seen that some cases of projection cannot be handledotherwise, and that many presuppositions do involve be-liefs of agents other than just the speaker.3.4 Defeat  in A f f i rmat ive  SentencesThe presuppositions of an affirmative sentence usually can-not be defeated without an infclicity.
For example, It'sa good thing that Tom didn't .fall presupposes that Tomdidn't fall.
There is no context for this sentence in whichthe presupposition does not hold and hence no context inwhich it can be contradicted.
However, there is a smallclass of affirmative sentences in which defeat is possible.For example, sentence 14 potentially presupposes 15 be-cause of the definite reference Barney's loud music.
(14) If Fred's in his office, Barney's loud music willbother him.
(15) Barney is playing loud music.However, in the context of 16, the presupposition does nothold.
(16) Barney plays loud music when Fred's in his office,just to bother him.In this case, the contextual information combines with the/\]-clause of 14 to establish that the potential presupposi-tion of the then-clause, 15, is merely a possibility, therebyblocking it as an actual presupposition of the sentence.We argue that a presupposition of an affirmative sentencecan be defeated only in this manner, i.e., only if it is es-tablished as hypothetical by a clause of the sentence incombination with contextual information.
Horton (1987)enumerates these relatively infrequent cases.Definitions 2 and 3, given above, correctly handle thecases in which at tempted efeat of a presupposit ion arisingfrom an affirmative sentence leads to an infelicity; however,they do not handle those cases where such defeat is pos-sible.
In this section we discuss two ways to do so.
Bothare compatible with our approach.We define an ant i -eond l t lon  to be any backgroundinformation that helps to establish as hypothetical,  andtherefore to dethat, a potential  presupposit ion of an af-firmative sentence.
Clauses involving anti-conditions areadded to ~\[le definitions as follows:DEFINITION 4: Sentence S potent ia l l y  p resupposesproposit ion P with anti-condit ion Q iff for any speakerSp, l istener L, and state s,(a) Tt~e utterance of S + by Sp to L in state s wouldallow L to infer BSpP unless L already believedBsvO, i.e., unless s I= BLBsp@(b)  The utterance of S -  by Sp to L in state s wouldallow L to infer BSvP unless L already believedBsp~.P or BsvQ, i.e., unless .s ~= BLI3&,~P ors ~ BLBSvQ.DEFINITION 5: The utterance of sentence S by speakerSp in state s ac tua l ly  p resupposes  propositionB&I-' for listener L iff(a) 1 ) is a potential  presupposit ion of S, with anti-condition Q.
(b)  If S = S- ,  s ~k BLBs,,-~P.
(e) ,~ ba B~B~,Q.For examt,le, sentence 14 potential ly presupposes 15with 16 as an anti-condition.
As long ~s the anti-conditionis not believed, the presupposit ion is actual.As mentioned above, defeat can only occur in a fewtypes of positive sentence, so the anti-condition is usuallynil; in such cases the simpler definitions, 2 and 3, suffice.An alternative method of handling the phenomena re-garding defeat in affirmative sentences i to treat affirma-tive and negative sentences uniformly, that is, to performthe consistency check on both types of sentence.
This ap-proach, adopted by Gazdar (1979a, 1979b), requires nospecial mechanism to account for felicitous defeat in af-firmative sentences.
To explain the infelicity that arisesin moat.
cases when defeat of a presupposit ion of an affi>mative sen/;enee is attempted,  the help of entaihnents ienlisted.
For exmnpie, Gazdar's theory says that 1 didn'tsee Lea Miadrablea is a "pre-supposit ion ''5 of 18, but notan actual presupposit ion i  the context of 17, because thiswould be inconsistent.
So far no infelicity is detected.
(17) I saw Lea Mis&ables.
(18) I 'm sorry that I d idn't  see it.However, I didn't ace Les Miadrables is also an entaihnentof 18 (bec~mse factive verbs entail their complements).5Gazdar's "pre-suppositions" correspond roughly to onr porch-tim presuppo:dtions (see section 4).
We will use quotation marks todistinguish is hyphem~ted term from the generic one.This entai lment introduces an inconsistency into tile cu-mulative context and sentence 18 is therefore predicted tobe infelicitous in the context of 17.Unfortunately, Gazdar does not say exactly wheresuch entai lments occur.
We argue that the entaihnentsexist exactly where anti-conditions do not, and thus thatthe distinction between Mfirmative sentences that allowdefeat and those that do not can be drawn either by anti~conditions or by tile existence of entaihnents.Casting the "uniform" approach in our terms, wc getthe following definitions:DEFINITION 6: Sentence S potent ia l l y  p resupposesproposit ion P ill" for any speaker Sp, listener L, andstate s, the utterance of ,5' by Sp to L in state s wouldallow L to infer BspP unless s ~: BLBsp~P.DEHNITION 7: The utterance of sentence S by speakeroep in state a ac tua l ly  p resupposes  proposit ionBspP for listener L iff(a) P is a potential presupposit ion of S.(b)  s \[/= BLBsv~P.We are at present undecided as to which of these twomethods to prefer.
Both explain the t)henomena.
Treat-ing af\[irmative and negative sentences uniformly leads tosimpler definitions; in addition, the use of entaihnents toexplain defeat phenomena in positive sentences is moregmmral than relying on anti--conditions, which are specificto the type of sentence under question, ttowevcr, this ap-proach does not capture the intuition that defeat differs innegative and atfirmative sentences.
In addition, uniformdefinitions do not capture only presupposition, becausethey do not mention the unique hehavior of presui)posi-tion under negation.
In contrast, the earlier definitions 4and 5 can distinguish presupposit ion from other kinds ofimpli cation.It is inlportant o note that the choice between thesetwo methods is orthogonal to our goal of developing amodel that treats presupposit ions a beliefs.4 Compar i son  w i th  Gazdar ' sApproachGazdar's (1979a, 1979b) is perhaps the most influentialtheory of presupposit ion.
It attempts to explain diversephenomena regarding the behavior of presupposit ions incontext ~ with a single rule, based on consistcucy.
Con-sistency is also central to our analysis.
In addition, thestructure of our account is similar to Gazdar's.
In particu-lar, both accounts first compute prel iminary propositionsin our case potential presupposit ions and in Gazdar's,"pre-suppositions" - - and then perform a consistency-based context check to find the presupposit ions of the sen-6Gazdar refers to this as tile projection problem.
We use theterm differently, as Levinson does, to mean the problem of findingthe presuppositions of a complex sentence from the presuppositionsof its constituents.259tence or utterance in context.
Despite the structural sim-ilarities, there are important differences between the twoapproaches.
We will now describe some of these.First, for Gazdar a sentence may "pre-suppose" aproposition that it can never, on any occasion of use, pre-suppose.
His "pre-suppositions" are simply convcnient in-termediate results.
In our theory, on the contrary, to saythat a sentence S potentially presupposes proposition P isto make a general statement about sentence S: it tends toimply P. Second, Gazdar computes his "pre-suppositions"using a set of unconnected and unmotivated rules, whereasour definition of potential presupposition lends coherenceto the diverse class of potential presuppositions.
The keydifference between the present work and Gazdar's is thatour emphasis is not on the behavior of presuppositionsin context, but on the relevance of agents' beliefs to allaspects of presupposition.
Gazdar does not address thisissue.
7 We consider our integration of beliefs into an ac-count of presupposition to be our main contribution.5 SummaryWe have found that agents' beliefs are relevant o an ac-count of presupposition, and that it is necessary to considerall agents involved in discourse when deciding to whom be-lief in a presupposition should be attributed.
We have de-scribed an account of presupposition that therefore makesbeliefs central.
This account includes a new definition ofpresupposition that captures it more precisely than earlierones.Treating presuppositions as beliefs - -  with full con-sideration given to all agents' beliefs - -  not only allows amore correct analysis by avoiding the Truth Assumptionand the Shared Belief Assumption; it also makes it possi-ble to account for presuppositionM phenomena that couldnot be explained otherwise.AcknowledgementsThis paper is based on thesis work by the first au-thor, under the supervision of the second.
The authorswish to thank Brenda Fawcett, Gerhard Lakemeyer, Hec-tor Levesque, and Bart Selman for helpful discussions,and Chrysanne DiMarco and Susan McRoy for help inpreparing this paper.
Financial support was received fromthe Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council ofCanada.7As mentioned above, Gazdar does treat all presuppositions aknowledge of the speaker; however, he does not consider the knowl-edge or beliefs of other agents, or examine the relevance of beliefs orknowledge to a theory of presupposition.260ReferencesAtlas, J.D.
; and Levinson, S.C. 1981.
It-Clefts, Infor-mativeness, and Logical Form: Radical Pragm~tics(Revised Standard Version).
In Cole, P.
Ed., t2adieaIPragmatics.
Academic Press: 1-61.Fagin, Ronald; Halpern, Joseph Y.; and Vardi, MosheY.
1984.
A Model~Theoretic Analysis of Knowl-edge: Preliminary Report.
Proceedings of the 25thIEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Sci-ence.
West Palm Beach, Florida: 268-278.Gazdar, G. 1979a.
Pragmatics: Implieature, Presupposi-tion and Logical Form.
Academic Press.Gazdar, G. 1979b.
A Solution to the Projection Problem.In Oh and Dinneen 1979: 57-89.Grice, H. Paul.
1975.
Logic and Conversation.
In Cole,Peter J.; and Morgan, Jerry L., Eds.
Syntax and Se-mantics, Volume 3: Speech Acts.
Academic Press:41-58.Horton, Diane Lynn.
1987. ,Incorporating Agents' Beliefsin a Model of Presupposition.
M.Se.
thesis, publishedas Technical Report CSRI-201, Computer SystemsResearch Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto,Canada.Karttunen, Lauri.
1973.
Presuppositions of compoundsentences.
Linguistic Inquiry 4:169-193.Karttunen, Lauri.
1974.
Presupposition and linguisticcontext.
Theoretical Linguistics 1:181-194.Karttunen, Lauri; and Peters, Stanley.
1979.
Conversa-tional Inlplicature.
In Oh and Dinneen 1979: 1-56.Levinson, S.C. 1983.
Pragmatics.
Cambridge UniversityPress.Oh, C.-K.; and Dinneen, D.A., Eds.
1979.
Syntax andSemantics, Volume 11: Presupposition.
AcademicPress.Quirk, Randolph; and Greenbanm, Sidney.
1973.
A Uni-versity Grammar of English.
Longman Group Lim-ited.Weischedel, Ralph Mark.
1975.
Computation of a UniqueSubclass of Inferences: Presupposition and Entail-ment.
Unpublished octoral dissertation, Universityof Pennsylvania.Weischedel, Ralph Mark.
1979.
A New Semantic Compu-tation While Parsing: Presupposition and Entailme~LIn Oh and Dinneen 1979: 155-183.Wilson, Dierdre; and Sperber, Dan.
1979.
Ordered En-taihnents: An Alternative to Presuppositional Theo-ries.
In Oh and Dinneen 1979: 299-323.
