Metonymy and Metaphor: What's the Difference?Dan FASSComputing Research Laboratory,Box 30001/3CRL,New Mexico State University,Las Cruces,NM 88003-0001,USA.ABS'II~ACTA computational pproach to metonymy and metaphor isproposed that distinguishes between them, literalness, and ano-maly.
The approach supports Lakoff and Johnson's (1980) viewsthat metonymy and metaphor are quite different phenomena, thatin metonymy an entity stands for another, whereas in metaphoran entity is viewed as another.1 IntroductionThis p;~per describes a computational pproach to metonymyand.metaphor that distinguishes betwecn them, literalness, andanomaly.
Tile approach lends support o the views of Lakoff andJohnson (1980) that metonymy and metaphor are quite differentphenomena, that metonymy is a means by which one entitystands for another, whereas metaphor is a way in which oneentity is viewed as another.The tt,ee main features of tile computational pproach arethat: (a) literahtess, metaphor, and anomaly share commonfeatures and form a group distinct from metonymy which hascharacteristics that requires a quite different treatment; (b) chainsof metonymies occur, supporting an observation by Reddy(1979); and (c) metonymies can co-occur with instances of eitherliteralness, metaphor, or anomaly.
An example is given of thecomputer analysis of a metonymy which illustrates the abovethree features.
The example is analysed by a natural languageprogram callext recta5 that uses Collative Semantics, hereafter CS.CS is a recently proposed domain-independent semantics fornatural language processing which is, in many respects, adevelopmenl of Preference Semantics (Wilks 1973, 1975a,1975b).2 Overview: The Relationship between Metonymy and Meta-phorThis section outlines some of the main similarities anddifferences between metonymy and metaphor, starting with theirmain similmities.
One similarity is that both metonymy andmetaphor are highly pervasive in language: there is linguistic evi-dence of tbo widespread use of metaphor (e.g., Brooke-Rose1958; Levin 1977; Reddy 1979; Lakoff and Johnson 1980) andmetonymy (e.g., Stern 1931; Lakoff and Johnson 1980; VanEynde 1982; Yamanashi 1987).
A second similarity is that bothmetonymy and metaphor are significant in language change, not-ably in word sense xtension (see Stem 1931; Wal&'on 1967).
Athird and perhaps most important similarity is that both meto-nymy and raetaphor are non-literal.
We will not review thenature of metaphor here because that has been covered elsewhere(see Ortony 1979a; lloneck and Hoffman 1980; Johnson 1981)but will instead focus on the nature of metonymy.In a metonymy, the name of one thing is substituted for thatof another elated to it.
Several attempts have been made toorganise instances of metonymy into categories (e.g., Stern 1931;Lakoff and Johnson 1980; Yamanashi 1987) or "metonymic con-cepts," as Lakoff and Johnson call them.
One kind of meto-nymic concept is synechdoche or, in Lakoff and Johnson's terms,Part for Whole, Below are three examples of another meto-nymic concept, Container for Contents.
(1) "Denise drank tile bottle."
(= the liquid in the bottle)(2) "Dave drank the glasses."
(= the liquid in the glasses)(3) "Thc kettle is boiling."
(= the liquid in the kettle)(Waldron 1967, p.186; Yamanashi 1987, p.78)None of the three sentences i  literally true.
The non-literalness in each sentence is indicated by a violation of a sclcc~tion reslriction of the verb.
In (1) and (2), 'drink' expects a pot-able liquid but neither bottles nor glasses are potable liquids; in(3) 'boil' expects a liqnid, but a kettle is not a liqnid.
Ilowever,there is something regular about the nature of the selection res-triction violation in all three sentences.
Observe that in (1) and(2), it is not bottles or glasses that are drunk, but the potableliquids in them, and in (3), it is the liquids in kettles that areboiled, not the kettles themselves.
In each case, the selection res-triction is a liquid and the surface noun against which it ismatched is a container of liquids; hence in each case, there is aregular elationship between a container (a bottle, glass, and ket-tle) and its typical contents (a liquid): this relationship is themetonymic concept Container for Contents.
(4) "You'll find better ideas than that in the library.
"(Reddy 1979, p.309)It has also been observed that metonymies occur in chains(Rexldy, Ibid).
Reddy suggests that (4) contains a chain of Partfor Whole mctonymies between 'ideas' and 'library': the ideasare expressed in words, words arc printed on pages, pages are inbooks, mad books are found in a library.Having discussed some areas of agreement about metonymyand metaphor, we now turn to a much disputed subject: the natureof the relationship betwcen them.
One view is that metonymy isa type of metaphor, a view that has been traced by Genettc(1970), according to Levin (1977, p.80).
Sem'le (1981, p.280)claims to hold this view, though he claims not strongly.
Asecond and antithetical view is that metaphor is a type of meto-nymy.
This view, also noted by Levin (lbid), conjoins the viewsof Dubois et al (1970), who reduce metaphor to synechdoche,;\[77and Jakobson and Halle (1956), who reduce synechdoche tometonymy.
Finally,.
a third view is that metonymy and metaphorare quite different, a view that has been advanced by Lakoff andJohnson (1980, pp.36-37), among others.
To them, metaphor is"principally a way of conceiving of one thing in terms ofanother, and its primary function is understanding;" metonymy"has primarily a referential function, that is, it allows us to useone entity to stand for another" though it has a role in under-standing because it focusses on certain aspects of what is beingreferred to.
We subscribe to the third view.Metonymy has recently become a topic of interest in naturallanguage processing (e.g., Grosz, Appelt, Martin, Pereira, andShinkle 1985; Martin 1986; Hobbs and Martin 1987;.Stallard1987; Wilensky 1987) though, to our knowledge, no one else hasyet produced a theory embodied in a computer program that canprocess several different metonymic oncepts or that can distin-guish metonymies from metaphors.
The next section outlines thetreatment of metonymy in CS.3 Collative Semantics: Description of Semantic PhenomenaAddressedIn CS, we investigate metaphors, metonymies, anomalies,etc., by studying the "semantic relations" that underlie them.Semantic relations are relationships that arise between the mean-ings of words (or larger linguistic Units).
Seven types of semanticrelations are distinguished in CS.
These are termed literal, meto-nymie, metaphorical, anomalous, redundant, inconsistent, andnovel relations.
The seven semantic relations divide into twoclasses which we refer to as "preference-based" and"assertion-based" relations.
Brief definitions of the preference-based semantic relations are now given, together with examplesentences ( ee Fass 1986b, 1987b, 1988 for more details).
Thesesentences assume a null context in which there are no complicat-ing effects from prior sentences or the pre-existing beliefs of pro-ducers or understanders.The preference-based class of semantic relations tems frommatching the semantic restrictions of senses of words againstthe immediate context of the meanings of other senses of words.Such semantic restrictions have been called "selection restric-tions" (Katz and Fodor 1964), "preferences" (Wilks 1973) and"expectations" (Schank 1975).
We have adopted Wilks' term.Such preferences appear to be responsible for literal, metonymic,metaphorical, and anomalous emantic relations.
Literal relationsare signified by a satisfied preference whereas the remaining threerelations, which are all non-literal, are indicated by a violatedpreference.
(5) "The man drank beer.
"There is a literal relation between 'man' and 'drink' in (5)because 'drink' prefers an animal as its agent (i.e., it is animalsthat drink) and a man is a type of animal so the preference issatisfied.
(1) "Denise drank the bottle.
"In (1), the semantic relation between 'drink' and 'bottle' ismetonymic.
'Drink' prefers a potable liquid as its object, A bot-tle is not a type of potable liquid so there is a preference viola-tion.
Furthermore, there is a Container for Contents metonymybetween 'bottle' (the container) and 'potable liquid' (its contents).Metonymy is differentiated from metaphor in CS becausewe think that the core of a metonymy is a semantic relationship,e.g., Container for Contents, whereas the core of a metaphor isa relevant analogy.
Others have argued for the importance ofrelevance in recognising metaphors (e.g., Tversky 1977; Hobbs1983) and it has been frequently claimed that the critical match ina metaphorical relation is some correspondence or analogybetween two properties (e.g., Wilks 1978; Ortony 1979b, p.167;Tourangean and Sternberg 1982, pp.218-221; Gentner 1983)though, to our knowledge, no-one has brought he two observa-tions together and emphasised the role of relevance in thediscovex~?
of an analogy critical to a metaphor.
(6) "The car drank gasoline."
(adapted from Wilks 1978)Thus, the semantic relation between 'cal" and 'drink' in (6)is metaphorical because between 'car' and 'animal', the preferredagent of 'drink', there is a prefizrence violation and an underlyingrelevant analogy.
A ear is not a type of animal, hence the prefer-ence violation.
However, in the context of a sentence aboutdrinking such as (6), there is a relevant analogy that animalsdrink potable liquids as cars use gasoline, hence the metaphoricalrelation between 'car' and 'drink'.A third kind of non-literalness, in addition to metonymy andmetaphor, is anomaly.
Metonymy and metaphor are dis-tinguished from anomaly in CS because anomalous relations haveneither the semantic relationships of a metonymic relation nor therelevant analogy of a metaphorical relation.
(7) "The idea drank the heart.
"In (7), the semantic relation between 'idea' and 'drink' isanomalous.
This is because 'idea' is not a preferred agent of'drink' and no relevant analogy can be found between animals(the preferred agent) and ideas.Next, we describe the four components that comprise CS,which can discriminate among the semantic relations justpresented.4 Coilative Semantics: Description of its Four ComponentsThe four components of CS are "sense-frames," "colla~tion," "semantic vectors," and "screening.
'~A fuller descrip.-tion of these components appears in Fass (1986, 1987c, 1988).Sense-frames are dictionary entries for individual word-senses.
Sense-flames are composed of other word-senses thathave their own sense-flames, much like Quillian's (1968) planes.Each sense-frame consists of two palls, an "arcs"  section and a"node"  section, that correspond to the genus and differentiacommonly found in a real dictionary definition.
The arcs part of asense-frame contains a labelled arc to its genus term (a word-sense with its own sense-frame).
Together, the arcs of all thesense-flames comprise a densely structured semantic network ofword-senses called the "sense-network."
The node part of asense-frame is the differentia that provides a "definition" of theword-sense represented by the sense-frame that differentiates itfrom other word-senses.The second component of CS is the process of collation.Collation matches the sense-frames of two word-senses and findsa system of multiple mappings between those sense-flames,thereby discriminating~the semantic relations between the word-senses.
The two terms in a semantic relation are referred to asthe "source" and the " target"  (Martin 1985).
The source ini-tiates and directs the mapping process, the target has a complexsystem of mappings laid upon it, and there is direction from thesource towards tile target.Figure 1 is a flow chart that shows how literal, metonymie,metaphorical and anomalous relations are distinguished.
Themain features of the flow chart are: (a) metonymy is given a verydifferent reatment from literal, metaphorical, and anomalous rela-tions; (b) chains of metonymies can be found, supporting Reddy's(1979) observation; (c) metonymies can co-occur with instancesof either literal, metaphorical, or anomalous relations.In the flow chart, a sense-network path denoting inclusion issought first.
If such a path is found then the semantic relation isa literal one.
If the path is not inclusive then metonymicinferencing -- the application of metonymic inference rules -- istried.
Metonymic inferencing is thus a special strategy tried afterfailure to discover an initial literal semantic relation, hence meto-nymy is non-literal.
A successful metonymic inference ruleestablishes the relationship between the original source or target("the name of one thing") and another entity (' 'another related toit") that substitutes for one of them.
The substitute source or tar-178-4\[inference rues \]~ - - - -  \]---i-Substitute \]_,, Yes /~I metonym for ~ucceeds /\[source or target I x /~ d  metaphorical~ 1  or anomalous\[ semantic relationFind sense-network pathqbe!weea source and target\]; _ _- - \ [ semant ic  relation\]?tFigure 1.
Preference-based semantic relations.get is usext tO compute a semantic relation which can be literal,metonymic again, metaphorical, or anomalous.
Hence adiscovered s~mantic relation can be a single relation (i.e., literal,metaphorical, or anonmlous) or a combination of relations con-sisting of a single metonymy or a chain of metonymies plus aliteral, metaphorical, or anomalous relation.A further set of processing steps distinguish metaphoricalfrom anomalous emantic relations.
The key step records thematch of the: relevant cell from tile source sense-frmne with oneof the cells from the target sense-frame.
For a metaphorical rela-tion the match of cells is analogical whereas for an anomaloussemantic rehttion the match of cells is not analogical (see Fass1986, 1987a, 1988); in other words, a metaphorical relation con-tains a relevant analogy, as in (6), while an anomalous relationdoes not, as :in (7).Tile third component of CS is the semantic vector which is aform of representation, along with sense-fi'ames; but sense-framesrepresent knowledge, whereas emantic vectors represent coher-ence.
Semantic vectors are therefore a kind of "coherencerepresentation.
"The fourth component of CS is the process of screening.During analysis of a sentence constituent, a semantic vector isgenerated hw each possible pairwise combination of word senses.These word-sense combinations are called "semantic readings"or simply "readings."
Each reading has an associated semanticvector.
Screening chooses between two senmntic vectors andhence their attached semantic readings, thereby resolving lexicalambiguity.5 Processing Metonymy: An ExampleThis section gives an example of a metonymy analysed bythe meta5 program, which contains an implementation of CS.Another example of processing a metonymy can be found in Fass(1986b, to appear).
The meta5 program analyses sentences,discriminates the seven kinds of semantic relation between pairsof word senses in those sentences (i.e., it actually recognisesmetaphors, metonymies, redundancies, etc), and resolves any lexi-cal ambignity in those sentences.
Meta5 is writtert in QuintusProlog and consists of a lexicon containing the sanse-frames of460 word-senses, a small grammar, and semantic routines thatembody collation and screening, the two processes of CS.
Theprocess of collation currently contains metonymic inference rulesfor four types of metonymic oncept, ordered from most to leastcommon: Part for Whole, Container fat" Contents, Co-Agentfor Activity, and Artist for Artform.
(8) "Ted played Bach."
(= the music of Bach)In (8), there is a chain of metonymies plus a literal relation.The chain consists of Artist for' Artform and Container fro.Contents metonymic concepts.
When expressed as inferencerules, some metonymic oncepts appear to be drive "forward"from the source, while others are driven "backward" from thetarget.
It is this direction of inferencing that determines whetherthe source or target is substituted in a successful metonym.
BothArtist for Artform and Container for Contents are target-cMven, hence in Artist for Artform the inference is from the tar-get (the Artist) to the source (the Artform), so the substitutemetonym replaces the target (tile Artist) if the inference is suc-cessful.Figure 2 shows the sense-frames of the verb-sense playl2,musicl and johann_sebastianbach.
T e metonymy results fromnmtching the object preference of playl2, which is for music,against the surface object, which is 'Bach', short for 'JohannSebastian Bach'.
In what follows, the preference (musicl) is thesource and the surface object (johannsebastian_bach) is the tar-get.179sf(play12,\[\[arcs,\[\[supertype, perform1\]\]\],\[node2,\[\[agent,\[preference, human__beingl\]\],\[oblec~\[preference, music1 \]\]\]\]\]).sf(musicl, sf(johann sebastian_bach,\[\[arcs, \[\[arcs,\[\[supertype, \[sound1, a~ form1\]\]\]\], \[\[supertype, composerl\]\]\],\[nodeO, \[nodeO,\[\[musician1, play12, itl\]\]\]\]).
\[\[animacyl, dead1\],\[sex1, male1\],\[born1, 1685\],\[died1,1750\]\]\]\]).Figure 2.
Sense-frames of musicl, playl2, and johannsebastianbach.We shall use the flow chart of figure 1 to understand whathappens.
The rectangular boxes in the flow chart are called"statement boxes," the diamonds are "decision boxes."
Weshall follow what happens using instructions given as sentences inbrackets.
We now begin the example: (Enter the flow chart.
)(Enter the uppermost statement box.)
The sense-network pathbetween the source (musicl) and the target(johann_sebastian bach) is sought,(Enter the uppermost decision box of the the flow chart.
)The path is not inclusive so metonymic inference rules ,areapplied.
(Enter the middle decision box Of the the flow chart.)
Therule for Artist for Artform succeeds.
The discovered metonymicinference is that johann_sebastian bacti (the Artist) composesmusical pieces (the Artform).
The metonymic inference is drivenfrom the target (the Artist), which is johann_sebastianbach.
T esuccessful metonymic inference is as follows: (a)johann_sebastian_bach (the Artist) is a composerl, (b) composerscompose1 musical pieces (the Artform).
Two additional testsconfirm (a) and (b), which are that (c) composing is a type ofcreating, and (d) a musical piecel is a type of art__forml.
(Enter the leftmost statement box.)
The original target(johannsebastianbach) is replaced by the substitute metonym(musical_piece 1).
(Enter the uppermost statement box for a second time. )
Thesense-network path between the source (musicl) and the new tar-get (musical_piecel) is sought.
(Enter the uppermost decision box for a second time.)
Thepath is not inclusive so metonymic inference rules are applied.
(Enter the middle decision box for a second time.)
The ridefor Container for Contents succeeds.
The successful inferenceis that a musical piecel (the Container) contains musicl (theContents).
(Entdr the leftmost statement box for a second time.)
Thedirection of inference in the Container for Contents metonyrnicconcept is from the target (the Container) towards the source (theContents), so the target (the Container) is replaced by the substi-tute metonym if such an inference should be successful.
Hencein our example, the target (musical piecel) is again replaced by asubstitute metonym (music1).
The source, which is musicl, theobject preference of playl2, remains unchanged,(Enter the uppermost statement box for a third time.)
Thesense-network path between the source (musicl) and the latesttarget (musicl) is sought.
(Re-enter the uppermost decision box a third time.)
The pathis inclusive so a literal relation is found, that musicl is a type ofmusic1.
(Exit the the flow chart.)
The processing of the preference-based semantic relation(s) betweenplayl2, with its object prefer-ence for musicl, and johann_sebastian bacl~ is completed.
Afteran initial preference violation (Johann Sebastian Bach is not akind of music), the semantic relation found was an Artist forArtform metonymic relation (that johannsebastian_bach com-poses musical pieces) followed by a Container for Contentsmetonymic relation (that musical pieces contain music) followedby a literal relation (that music is music).6 ConclusionsThe above analysis illustrates, we hope, why metonymy andmetaphor are easily confused: both are non-literal and are foundthrough the discovery of some aspect (a property) shared by thesource, a preference, and the target, in the above case a surfacenoun.
Our conclusion is that metonymy and metaphor are verydifferent phenomena, much as Lakoff and Johnson (1980) havesaid, except hat we add detailed suggestions as to why.
We sug-gest that some key differences between metonymy and metaphorare: (a) how the shared aspect is selected, (b) the operations thathappen after the selection, and (c) the effect those operationsproduce.In the case of metonymy, (a) the selected aspect is a pro-perty that forms a regular semantic relationship with a propertyfrom the target; (b) there is substitution, i.e., replacement of oneconceptual entity with another; hence (c) the observed referentialfunction of metonymy.In the case of metaphor, (a) the selected aspect is a relevantproperty; (b) forms an analogy with a property from the target;and (c) the effect is of surprise discovery of similarity betweenthe two concepts.7 ReferencesBrooke-Rose, Christine (1958) A Grammar of Metaphor London:Secker Warburg.Dubois, J., et al(1970) Rhetorique Generale.
Paris: Larousse.Van Eynde, Frank (1982) Ambiguity.
In J. Erlandsen, F. VanEynde, J. McNaught, H. Somers, and L. Destombes Diction ?ary and Semantics in Eurotra, Eurotra Contract Report ET-igO10-SEM, European Communities, Luxembourg.Fass, Dan C. (1986) Collative Semantics: An Approach to Coher-ence.
Memorandum in Computer and Cognitive Science,MCCS-86-56, Computing Research Laboratory, New Mex-ico State University, New Mexico.Fuss, Dan C. (1987a) Semantic Relations, Metonymy, and LexicalAmbiguity Resolution: A Coherence-Based Account.
InProceedings of the 9th Annual Cognitive Science SocietyConference, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington,pp.575-586.Fass, Dan C. (1987b) Collative Semantics: Lexical AmbiguityResolution and Semantic Relations (with Particular Refer-ence to Metonymy).
Memorandum in Computer and Cogni-tive Science, MCCS-86-59, Computing Research Labora-tory, New Mexico State University, New Mexico.Fass, Dan C. (1987e) Collative Semantics: An Overview of theCurrent Meta5 Program.
Memorandum in Computer andCognitive Science, MCCS-87-112, Computing ResearchLalx)ratory, New Mexico State University, New Mexico.Fass, Dan C. (1988) Collative Semantics: A Semantics forNatural Language Processing.
Memorandum in Computerand Cognitive Science, MCCS-88-118, Computing ResearchLalx~ratory, New Mexico State University, New Mexico.Fass, Dan C. (to appear) An Account of Coherence, SemanticRelations, Metonymy, and Lexieal Ambiguity Resolution.In Steve L. Small, Gary W. Cottrell, and Michael K.Tanenhaus (Eds.)
Lexical Ambiguity Resolution in theComprehension of Human Language, Morgan Kaufmann:Los Allos, CA.Fass, Dan C. and Wilks, Yorick A.
(1983) Preference Semantics,Ill-Formedness and Metaphor.
American Journal of Compu-tational Linguistics, 9, pp.178-187.Genette, Gerard (1970) La Rhetorique Restreinte.
Communica-tions, 116, pp.158-171.Gentner, Dedre (1983) S~'ucture Mapping: A Theoretical Frame-work for Analogy.
Cognitive Science, 7, pp.155-170.Grice, H. Paul (1975) Logic and Conversation.
I  P. Cole and J.Morgan (Eds.
), Syntax amt Semantics 3: Speech Acts,Academic Press, pp.41-58.Grosz, Barbara J., Douglas E. Appelt, Paul Martin, Fernando C.N.Pereira, and Lorna Shinkle (1985) The TEAM Natural-Language Interface System.
Final Report, Project 4865,Artificial Intelligence Center, SRI International, Menlo Park,California.Hobbs, Jeny R. (1983) Metaphor Interpretation as SelectiveInfercncing: Cognitive Processes in Understanding Metaphor(Part 1).
Empirical Studies of the Arts, 1, pp.17-33.Hobbs, Jerry R., and Paul Martin (1987) Local Pragmatics.
InProceedings of the lOth International Joint Conference onArtificial Intelligence (1JCAI-87), Milan, Italy, pp.520-523.Honeck, Richard P., and Robert R. Hoffman (Eds.)
(1980) Cogni-tion and Figurative Language, Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum Asso-ciates.Jakobson, Roman, and Halle, Morris (1956) Fundamentals ofLanguage, The Hague: Mouton.Johnson, Mark (Ed.)
(1981) Philosophical Perspectives on Meta-phor, Minneapolis: University of Minnesota PressKatz, Jerrold J.
(1964) Analyticity and Contradiction i NaturalLanguage.
In Jerry A. Fodor and Jerrold J. Katz (Eds.)
TheStructure of Language: Readings in the Philosophy ofLanguage, Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, pp.519-543.Katz, Jerrold 1., and Jerry A. Fodor (1964) The Structure of ASemantic Theory.
Iu Jerry A. Fodor and Jerrold J.
Katz(Eds.)
The Structure of Language: Readings in the Philoso-phy of Language, Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall,pp.479-518.Lakoff, George, told Mark Johnson (1980) Metaphors We LiveBy, London: Chicago University Press.Levin, Samuel R. (1977) The Semantics of Metaphor, Baltimore:John Hopkins University Press.Martin, James H. (1985) Knowledge Acquisition though NaturalLanguage Dialogue.
Proceedings of the 2nd Annual Confer-ence on Artificial Intelligence Applications, Miami, F1.Martin, James H. (1986) Learning by Understanding Metaphors.Proceedings of the 8th Annual Conference of the CognitiveScience Society, Amherst, Massachusetts.Ortony, Andrew (Ed.)
(1979a) Metaphor and Thought, London:Cambridge University Press.Ortony, Andrew (1979b) Beyond Literal Similarity.
Psychologi-cal Review, 86, pp.161-180.Quillian, M. Ross (1968) Semantic Memopy.
In Marvin Minsky(Ed.)
Semantic Information Processing, Cambridge, Mass:MIT Press, pp.216-270.Reddy, Michael J.
(1979) The Conduit Metaphor -.- A Case ofFrame Couflict in Our Language about Lmlguage.
Iu AndrewOrtony (Ed.)
Metaphor and Thought, London: CambridgeUniversity Press, pp.284-324.Schank, Roger C. (1975) The Structure of Episodes in Memory.In Daniel G. Bobrow and Allan Collins (Eds.)
Representa-tion and Understanding, New York: Academic Press,pp.237-272.Searle, John (1981) Metaphor.
Iu Mm'k Johnson (Ed.)
Philosoph-ical Perspectives on Metaphor, Uuiversity of MinnesotaPress: Minneapolis, pp.248-285.Stallard, David (1987) The Logical Analysis of Lexical Ambi-guity.
Proceedings of the 25th Annual Meeting of the ACL,Stanford University, Stanford, CA, pp.
179-185.Stem, Gustaf (1968; first published in Sweden 1931) Meaningand Changes of Meaning, Indiana University Press:Bloomington, Indiana.Tourangeau, Roger, and Robert J. Steinberg (1982) Understand-ing and Appreciating Metaphors.
Cognition, 11, pp.203-244.Tversky, Amos (1977) Features of Similarity.
l'sychologicalReview, 84, pp.327-352.Waldron, Ronald A.
(1967) Sense and Sense Development, AndreDeutsch: London.Wilensky, Robert (1987) Knowledge Representation a d NaturalLanguage Processing.
In Makoto Nagao (Ed.)
Languageand Artificial Intelligence (Proceedings of an InternationalSymposium on Language and Artificial Intelligence hem inKyoto, Japan, 16-21 March 1986), Elsevier Science Publish-ers, B.V., (North Holland), pp.367-384.Wilks, Yorick A.
(1973) An Artificial Intelligence Approach toMachine Translation.
In Roger C. Schank and Kenneth M.Colby (Eds.)
Computer Models of Thought and language,San Francisco: W.H.
Freeman, pp.
114-151.Wilks, Yorick A.
(1975a) A Preferential Pattern-Seeking Seman-tics for Natural Language Inference.
Artificial Intelligence,6, pp.53-74.Wilks, Yorick A.
(1975b) An Intelligent Analyser and Under-stander for English.
Communications of the ACM, 18,pp.264-274.Wilks, Yorick A.
(1978) Making Preferences More Active.
Artifi-cial Intelligence, 11, pp.197-223.Yamanashi, Masa-aki (1987) Metonymic interpretation a d Asso-ciative Processes in Natural Language.
In Makoto Nagao(Ed.)
Language and Artificial Intelligence (Proceedings ofan International Symposium on Language and ArtificialIntelligence held in Kyoto, Japan, 16-21 March 1986),Elsevier Science Publishers, B.V., (North Holland), pp.77-86.181
