LANGUAGE LEARNING AS PROBLEM SOLVINGModelling logical aspects of Inductive learningto generate sentences in French by ma n and machineMichael ZOCKGil FRANCOPOULOAbdellatif LAROUILIMSI, BP 30, 91406 Orsay - FranceAbstract:We present here a system under development, the present goals of whichare to assist (a) students in inductively learning a set of rules to generatesentences in French, and (b) psychologists in gathering data on naturallanguage learning.Instead of claimin~ an all-encompassing model or theory, we prefer toelaborate a tool, which is general and flexible enough to permit he testingof various theories.
By controlling parameters such as initml knowledge, thenature and order o f  the data, we can empirically determine how eachparameter affects the efficiency of learning.
Our ultimate goal is themodelling of human learning by machine.Learning is viewed as problem-solving, i.e.
as the creation and reduction ofa search-space, t~y integrating the student into the process, that is, byencouraging him to ask an expert (the system) certain kinds of questionslike: can one say x ?
how does one say x ?
why does one say x ?
we canennance not only the efficiency of the learning, but also our understandingof the underlying processes.
By having a tra.~e of the whole dialogue (whatquestions have been asked at, what time), Ave should be able to infer thestudent's learning strategies.I THE PROBLEM OF LEARNING A LANGUAGE:Language learning can be viewed as a special case of problem solving inwhich tlae learner tries to build and intelligently explore a hypotheticalsearch space.
If this view is correct, then two sets of questions ariseimmediately.
On one hand one may want to know:a) what the nature of this search space is (what are the variables 9)b) how it is built (incremental learning: local vg global view), ' 'c) how it is explored (strategies: intelligent opportunistics v  systematicsearch).On the other hand, one may want to investigate how (i) the knowledge atthe outset and (ii) the ordering of the data will affect the building and thesearching of the space.
Typically one does not learn from scratch, nor is itlikely that one encounters either well-ordered ata, or a Complete set ofexamples: natural learning is incremental.Obviously, these.facts imply that:* initial knowledge, in particular, knowledge of other languages maybias the kind of variables (attributes or hypotheses) constdered, i.e.,included in the search space;* the order of the data (the examp es encountered by the student) maydetermine what rules are likely to be inferred at what moment, and finallyrues are referred from mcomplete data (incremental learning).Furthermore, the same data may be characterized in different ways.That is, several equivalent descriptions may be inferred from the samedata set.
Whieli of these descriptions turns out to be the mostadequate generally cannot be established until one knows thecomplete data set.
Thus, rules may have to be revised in the light ofnew evidence.
Consequently, errors are not only unavoidable parts ofthe learning process,but also an indispensable source of informationfor the learner.2 THE PROBLEM OF TEACHING HOW TO LEARNtAs we have shown, learning can be seen as searching.
Actually, teaching, aswell as learning, can be conceived of as problem solving or reasoning in aninformatio.n-exchange environment.
There is a sender, a goal, a messageand a recewer.
The SENDER may be a native speaker, a teacher, a parent,a book or a computer.
The GOAL is the task or performance (output).
Inour case it is knowledge of how to produce sentences in French.
TheMESSAGE is the input to the learning component: examples from whichthe rules have to be inferred (1).
The RECEIVER or learner can be anysystem, naturm or artlttcial, capable of perceiving, memorizing andanalyzing a set of data and drawing the necessary conclusions: a child, astudent, or a computer program (2).Learning occurs in various settings.
Depending on the order of theexamples and the control of the information flow we s eak of nator I .
.
.
.
.
.
p aexperimental, or msmuttonal settings.
Natural earning is characterized bythe absence of a clearly defined learning objective (3), by noisy andheterogeneous material~ and by unordered examples.
The underlyingregumr:ties are thus multiple, diffuse, and hard to perceive.
Experimentffllearning and teaching, on the other hand, have a \]earning objective, thematerial is error-free, homogeneous and coherently ordered according tosome point of view (learner or teacher).
Whereas experimental learning canbe characterized by the following sequence: (i) encountering the data (ii)analysis, (iii) building and testing of h~,pothesis, (iv) feedback and (v) proofor aemonstration of the theo~, traditional teaching goes througfi thefollowing stages: (i) exposition, 0i) practice, (iii) testing and (iv) evaluation.This can be schematized asfollows:Teacher: sets the task and presents the learning materialStudent: analyzes the data;Teacher: provtdes aset of examples;Student: practices;Teacher: asks questions to test the gained knowledge;Student: answers the questions;Teacher: evaluates the answers, provides feedback (explanations)and organizes future data as a function of actualperformanceStudent: integrates the feedback into the knowledge base and cor-rects misconceptions;As one can see, the information flow here is entirely teacher-controlled.
Heis the one who sets the task, and provides the examples and the feedback.Consequently, the teacher decides the nature and the order of the material to be learned.There are two major shortcomings in this approach.
Not knowiug whatinformation is needed by the learner, the teacher may present he wrongdata.
More importantly, the student is only loosely integrated in thelearning process.
Instead of being active, generating and testing plausiblehypotheses (discovery learning), he reacts to questions, Thus, it may happenthat the student perceives his task as the learning of the material ratherthan the learning of the underlying principles.I~norance of what or how to learn may result in (i) learning the unintended0:) poor problem-solving skills or (iii) little transfer.
As long as the learne~"does not go beyond the informaBon given (the concrete word level), hecannot transfer the gained knowledge to similar situations, because theperception of similarity presupposes abstraction.Given these criticisms, it would be useful to have a system which has thequalities mentioned above without having the drawbacks.
A good learningenvironment should be both flexible and constraining enough:* to allow for simulation of real Communication, that is to say, toprovide a setting where both participants can take the initiative andcontrol the information-flow,* O " " t ensure the learmng of the appropriate material (i.e., what to learn)as well as the necessary problem-solving skills (the methods, i.e, how to learn).A computerprogram could provide such an environment.
It would offerdifferent k!nds oi' !nformation (see below: trace-function), while answeringme stuuent's questions as ne goes aJong generating and testing different sorts of hypotheses.3 THE COGNITIVE ENGENEER'S TASK:to provide the user a friendly interfaceWe will describe here a system under development, whose major goals are:* O ' " " t provide an environment whtch allows communication between alearner (student) and an expert (in our case the system);* O " ' " ' t s~mulate the mformatton-processmg aspect of natural learning, i.e.,the inductive learning of grammatical rules to generate sentences in French.
* to allow teachers and psychologists to test various theories.806The system we have in mind is designed to help the student build the searchspace (the set of all attribute-value pairs).
The learner has to discover howto explore it, By applying a given set of operators and by watching theoutcome, he t~n test (i) which information isrelevant and (it) to what it isrelevant (to .,~yntax or morphology), ltowever, in this kind of dialogue(controlled trial and error) the system not only answers the questions asEedby the learner, but also assists him in determining what questions aremeaningful in this context.Learning, be it by man or by machine, implies exchange of informationbetween two s~,stems, for example, a native speaker (expert) and a foreigner(learner).
We will start by describing some ortbe features our s'cstem needsto have in order to allow for such an information exchange.
We will thengive a detailed example, showing what such a dialogue between a humanlearner and the machine might look like.
Finally we will discuss whethermachines can acquire linguistm competency ina humanlike way.Before showing how the system is designed to work, let us specify moreclearly what the learning olJjective is.4 'I~IE STUDENT'S LEARNING OBJECTIVE:Tile learner's task consists of incrementally earning the morpho-syntacticrules of personal pronouns in French.
More precisely, the student isexpected to acquire the necessary knowledge n order togenerate sentencescomposed of several pronouns (-see examples (a) - (i)).
l"n order to achievethis goal, he has to learn:- how to express agiven concept (morphemes),- how to linemize these concepts (sentence patterns) and- under what conditions (rules) to use each of these words or sentence forms.MORPHOLOGY Example of rules todetermine MORPHOLOGYSPEAKER: je, me, mot - nous if SYNT.FUNCTION: direct objectLISTENER: tn, te, tot, - vous PERSON: thirdELSE: il, ella, ils, elias REFLEXIVE: noIt, la, les, lui, leur QUANTITY: definiteon, an, st, sol, eux NUMBER: singularGENDER: femalethen DIRECT OBJECT -- > laSYNTAX:a) S--I)O-'IO'-V ~e la  lu l  p rdnente  I In t roduce  her  to  himb) S-IO-DO-V Je te  la  p rdnento  ~ t l l t roduce  liar to  youc) ~DO-V-pp-~O \ ]e ta  pr6sente ~ e l la  t l l t roduce you to  herd) S-iO-V-pp'-~:O ~o lUt par ie ta l  do te l  I w i l l  to l l  her  about  youa) V-DO-IO pr*sente - la  mol In t roduce  her  to mef) neg-DO-IO.-V-neg no la  lu l  p rdsonta  paa Dontt  in t roduce  her  to  himg) neg-IO-DO'-V-llog no me la prdeente  pan Dea l t  In t roduce  her  to  meh) Ileq-DO-V-nl~g.
'pp--ro 1|o Ine prdf lento pail b el la  Doltlt h~troduce  me tO heri t n~g- Io~v- lmg-pp- Io  lie lu t  par le  pa~ de mol Don ' t  te l l  her  about  meS: subject, DO: direct object, IO: indirect object, pp: preposition,nag: negation, V: verbAs one can see from tile data, pronoun<onstructions in French can befairly complex (4).
This complexity is due to:* the number of features necessary todetermine word order or morphology:PART OF SPEECH: (noun, pronoun)ie parle ~ (noun)je klJ, parle (pronoun)SYNTACTIC FUNt.7"ION (subject , direct object, indirect object)il 6erit h Pierre ~subject)Paul llli derit (redirect object)SENTENCE-TYPE: (declarative, interrogative, command)tu m~ le donnes?
(interrogative)donne-It ~ !
(command)NEGATION: (,yes, no)oonnes-le alfi!
(positive)ne ~ le donnes pasI (.negative)COMMUNICATIVE-ROLES: (I, you, tie)je te LE donne (IO =je LE llli donne (IO = ~o~)NUMBER: (singular, plural, indefinite)je te 1~ garde (singular)je te Its garde (plural)je t'gn garde (indefinite)GENDER: (male, female)je lg vois (male)je la vois (female)VERB CONSTRUCTION: {type of complement (DO vs IO),pJpe at preposition, reflexivity)je vois_Mane --> je la vois (direct object)je parle ~t Marie --> je 1~ parle (indirect object)SEMANTIC FEATURES: (animate, inanimate)il m'emm6ne ~ ~ --> il m' ~ emm6neil me pr6sente ~t sa ~ --> il me pr6sente ~t* the structure of these features: if one compares (a) and (e), one willnotice that the form of the indirect object (lui vs ella) depends on thevalue of the direct object (horizontal dependancy);* the inte~ependance of syntax and morphology: practically all variables,except NUMBER and GENDER are relevant both for ~ntax andmorphology.
Furthermore, the position of the direct object pronounmay depend on the value of the indirect object (compare (a) and (b)here above).
In other words, changes in morphology often implychanges in syntactic structure.
* the various knowledge sources: the determination of morphology andsyntax requires information about the Le.fgLe.~ (number, gender,animacy).text fimctions (syntactic status of noun-phrase: noun vspronoun, topicalisation, person), ~ (positive/negative), &tLe~:c_hh =aC.t,(st atement/question/corn m and), verb-construclio~ (type ofcomplement: direct\]indirect, type of preposition: il,de), etc.Given these intricacies it is easy to understand why students so often fail tolearn these rules.
Modelling their learning is thus a challenging task.5 HOW CAN THE LEARNER BE INTEGRATED INTO THEPROCESS ?If one accepts this view of learning, then the problem of the student is tofind out how to build and how to intelligently reduce the search space.
Thesystem will help the student in various ways.First of all, it will answer certain kinds of questions:/~  How does one say x ?What would hapl~en if...?,Can one say x ?,How should one say x ?Why does one say x ?All these questions occur in some form or another in natural settings.
Thefollowing examples may illustrate these strategies or testing modes:(a) Question: ~ ~ :  "je lui pense"Answer :ie pense i~ ellae pease ,~ luiele pense (5)(b) Question: ~~12t led~, i f  in the following sentence:Paulparle gl Made (Paul talks to Ma~the object-noun was pronominalized .Answer: Paul lui parle(c) Question: .
~ :  "je he pense"?Answer: no(d) Question: .
l i n g  "je lui pense", ~ ?Answer: je pense h ellale pense ?a luije le pense (5)(e) Question: Why does one ~SKy: "Je le pense"Answer: explanation given by the systemThese strategies are complementary in that they correspond to differentlearning needs.
They provide different kinds of feedback.
The first twomethods (the inductwe approach) seem useful if one does not have muchknowledge yet.
Tile third one allows to test the degree of generality or theextension of a given rule (deductive reasoning), the fourth method providesadditional information in case of incorrect performance, while the lastquestion may either confirm a hypothesis, or correct a misconception.Second, the system should show how to reach the solution (thedemonstrative mode).
This might be helpful if the student gets stranded,not knowing what to do.
In this case the system takes over, showing howinformation may be processed.
By watching the system, the student maylearn how to explore, pc., how to generate and test a set of hypotheses.Third, the system keeps a record of the whole dialogue.
Such a trace hasmany advantages: it allows the student to verify to explaiu and toremember.
He may thus (i) check the consisten~ o f  the rules, (it) justify agiven conclusion in the light of evidence and (iii) reorganize his knowledgebase.
This last possibility should enhance fis perception of underlyingregularities.Psychologists could use this trace to infer the student's learning strategies.The rules a student Ires been testing at a given moment may be inferred onthe basis of the nature and order o f  the questions being asked.007Finally, teachers could use the trace-function to gain feedback concerningthe order of presentation of the data.
By varyingthe nature and order otinformation, they can determine xperimentally t~e complexity of the data(examples, rules),-and thereby the relative efficiency of various teaching-strategLes.6 THE FUNCTIONING OF THE SYSTEM:The program works interactively.
The user is given a set of options fi'omwhich he has to choose.
The system converts this input into the adequateoutput, i.e., linguistic form.
Input are meanings (what to say), output aresentences (how to say it).The process is started with a list of nouns and verbs.
This list is a kind ofknowledge base "i.e., a set of facts a potential user may want to talk about.This base is limited in scale, and arbitrary, in that it is given by the s},stem.However, this limitation is easily overcome.
The base can be extenued bytile user at any moment.
The important point is that, by feeding nouns andverbs into the knowledge base and by choosing among these entities, thestudent signals what he wants to say.
In doing so, he builds propositions ofvarious complexity (one-, two-, or three place predicates).The system will operate on these structures and build simple declarativesentences.
In other words at this stage of interaction it is assumed that thestudent wants to know how the intended meaning translates into thiscanonical form.
For example, the input (a) would yield the output (b).STUDENT SYSTEMinput:(a) output:(b)regarder (Manuel, Christine) = = > Manuel regarde Christinewatch (Manuel, Christine) = = > Manuelwatches ChristineThe student is queried a~ain to determine what he wants to say.
Basicallyhe has two possLbitities.
Either he tries a complete new idea (proposition),or he modifies part of thepreceding one.
In this latter case, tile systemprovides a list of options (-attribute-value pairs), inviting the student odiscover what happens, i.e.
how morphology and/or syntax are affected, ashe changes the value of any of the attributes such as PART OF SPEECH,SENTENCE MODE, NEGATION, and so forth.
Let us assume that thestudent had chosen to replace respectively Manuel and Christine by apronoun.
In this case the system would produce the following sentences:I1 regarde ChristineManuel a regardeHow shoukl one say ?
Why does (:no say ?\] /,-6~ explanation ~ il me le donneXPERT USERFIGURE 1By comparing these sentences with the base form, the student should noticecertain differences and draw the necessary conclusions.
For example, giventhe data he may conclude that:RI: if the direct object is pronominalized, .then it moves in front of the verb (syntax).R2: case (syntactic function) is morphologically relevant:if the subject is pronominalized then its surface form is "ir',113: if the direct object is pronominalized then its surface form is "la".Control is returned to the user.
Actually, from now on we are in a loop,w th the dialogue having basically the same form.
However, in each cyclethe hypothesis to be tested is likely to be different and it is interesting towatch how a student proceeds in acquiring competency.
What does he wantto know 9 Is he systematic?
What kind of strategy does he use (breadth first,depth first etc.)?
Under what conditions does he change his m~thod?
etc.The learner's problem is three-fold, he must find out:* which parameters (attributes) are relevant,* to what linguistic omponent they are relevant (syntax and/ormorphology), and* to what extent hey are relevant (6).A student may thus want to know:: whether the variable GENDER is morphologica!ly relevant!,whether this is the only relevant varmme, or It otlaer varmmescome into play'* whether it is relevant for all cases, irrespective of, for example,communicative role, negation or sentence mode (compare (e) and (g));I t  should be noted, that every time the student is given control, he canchoose two things: (i) the k indof  information he wants to convey (what tosay), and (ii) the dialogue-mode, i.e., HOW DOES ONE SAY?, CAN ONESA~9 ete ) The following diagram illustrates the information flow.insert figure 1 hereThis kind of environment has three basic functions:b to answer different kinds of questions,to convert meaning into form andto help the student to discover how changes in meaning are reflectedin changes in form.It should be noted that the student has most of the control.
The followingexamples should give an idea of the dialogue.
These hypothetical dialoguesserve illustrative purposes.
However, we believe that they are reasonablyclose to what might be encountered in an experimental session.6.1 EXAMPLE DIALOGUE NUMBER 1:Tile student's question (dialogue mode) is: HOW DOES ONE SAY?
Thefigure below contains three columns which express respectively thestudent's intentions, i.e.
what he wants to say, his observations, and hisconclusions with respect to syntax and morphology.insert figure 2 hereHaving generated the following proposition:Max, voir/ ax ' Paul)(see Paul))he wants to know what would happen, if both arguments (Max, Paul) werepronominalized.
The system generates the following answer:(1) il le voltThe student analyzes tills sentence and draws as conclusions Rule 1 andRule 2, mentionned here above.
He goes then on to ask 2dl~IJY~l~\].~%~if PAUL was replaced by MARY.
The system answers:(2) il la voitThe student concludes that GENDER is not relevant with regard to wordorder, but is a necessary condition to determine morphology (Rule 3).
Thislatter kind of knowledge could be expressed as:R3: if PART OF SPEECH: pronoun& SYNTACTIC FUNGI'ION: direct object& GENDER: femalethen PRONOUN: laelseif GENDER: malethen PRONOUN: leIn the next question he is concerned with the relevancy of NUMBER.
Heasks: what would happen if the direct object were CHILDREN (lesenfants)?
The system's answer(3) il les voltallows him to conclude that NUMBER is relevant for morphology but notfor syntax, as there are no changes in word order, but there is a change inform.
This fact is encoded in the following rule:808(INPUT) (~UTPUT)HOW DOES ONE SAY OBSERVATION CO~CLUSmNI) volr (Hox,Paur)Ha~ ~ l~ronuu.Paul  = preheat  ~> l l J~vo i tDO precedou Vpl'o:lou:l ~ I0Ha~i~ = pronoun ~> il ~Ovoltpos l t lo l )  of 00cnnalat.~Itb R1change i. fot~~) voir I l l ,x .
e~\]Fonts )eat'ants = pronoun~dNBER = plural-> ii l os  veilrio ehor~tJo i nposi finnchange in formA) ~ (Hax, Mari~ )Hox : pr o\[iotp~Her in  : pronoua -> II h l l  par leI0 preoedes Vsee  R1SYNTACTIC CATEGORY o.d  the SYNTACTICFUNCTION of the ro roront  are ayntoc-.fleetly relevantRII If SYNTACTIC CATEGIJIIVI pronountf SYNTACTIC FUNCTION: dlr.
obj.th~n pronoun In frer~k of the verbSubject  ~ Direct  O~oct  - VerbSYNTACTIC F~CTtON io l~rphologlcal ly~BI~vB~tlR2: If SYNTACTIC FUNCTION: a l lP J~tthen PRONOUN~ l lI f  SYNTACTIC FUNCIIGN:(Uro obj.then PRONOUNI leS~i_~,?x_,GENDER Is syntactically not rel,lva,,togmmholo!gS~GENDE8 is morphologically relevantR): 'f' SYNTACTIC CATEGORY: pro.suntf SYN'IACIIG FUNCTION: dlr.
obj.I f  GENDER 1 femal~then PRONOUNt laif GENDER: molethan PRONOUN: le5y~t nx:N~NBER Is ~yntoct leal ly not re levantH_9.zo r~L~a.~OAf if 5YNTAUTC FUNCTION: dlr.
obj.if NUHUER: pluralif GENDER: male (~)then PRONOUN: labS~tn~?Syntactle Tuner?o) (cane) la  releva, trs l  if SYNTACTIC CAIEGORY: pronounI f  SYNTACTIC FUNCTION: Ind.obj.then: Subject - Indlr.Ohj~et - VerbGenera l taat ion  of  RE & R5 = 116:R61 if ~n ob jec t  is pronoainalizedthen: Subject - Object "- Verbohange in form ~lnr~r l~hnl .~SYNTACTIC FUNCTION of 10 morphologica l , -Iv relevant (sea R2)R71 If SYNTACTIC FUNCTIONI indi l ' .ob j .if GENDER: f,~lale (**)Ellen PRONOUN: lu i5) par lo r  (Max, \[au!
)Paul  = pronoun -> ll ~ par lecona la tent  w i th  5_yntax:preceding rules GENDER is synt~ct ical ly  not relevantnn change in M o ~morphology The gender af the I0 ~s morphologicallynoL re levant ,  consequently minx  tileGENDER conat ra ln t  of 117Correct ion  of flY:Rill if SYNtACtiC FUNOIIDNI lnd l r .ob j .th=m PRONOUN* iul(*) s ince  GENDER wan re levant  fo r  the s ingu lar  th~ 8tudont  a~SL~m~ that  I ti t  la  o leo  r .
J .
vant  for, the p lu ra l(~*) 'Jlnc*~ GENDER wan ra l ,vant  fo r  t im DO (R3) Lho a tud .
, t  aa~lum~l\]that  i t  to a!tlo re levant  fa r  the IOF IGURE 2R4: if SYNTACTIC FUNCTION: direct object& GENDER: male& NUMBER: pluralthen PRONOUN: tesit is intm'esting to notice, that this rule is too specific, because GENDER isnot a necessary condition, However, this conclusion is perfectly reasmmblegiven the data encountered so far.
GENDER was a necessary condition forsingular (see rule 3), and since then there has been no evidence to thecontrary.
Consequently, the student has no way to conclude from the data,that for direct objects GENDER isgenerally relevant only for the singular.
(The onl~?
reason we could think o f  that a student might consider this lasthypothesis, would come from his knowledge of another language which hasthe very same property.
)It is also noteworthy that for objects, GENDER is only relevant for theSINGUIAR.
This has  procedural implications; namely that NUMBERshould be processed prior to GENDER.
The former being nToreinformative than the latter.In the following cycle (sentence 4) the student changes tile propositionaltogether, asking the system how one would say:parler (Max, Patti)when both arguments are pronominalized.
This would yield the followingsenteoce :(4) II lui parleFrom that he may conclude that the indirect objectprecedes the verb(Rule 5).
Reco~aizing the similarity with rule 1, Le., rccognizi,lg the factthat the syntactic status of the object (direct vs indirect) does not affectword order, he may generalize these two rules and replace them by rnle 6:R6: if an object is pronominalized, it precedes the verbThis rule is more general titan the former ones, in that the distinctionbetween direct and indirect object has beeu dropped.
It should be noted,however, that this rule, even though correct in the light of evidence, i.e.,data encountered so far, is too general.
For example, it does not apply toseutences composed of two objects (three place predicates), hi other wo'rdsthis rule needs refinement, .e., addit onal constraints.With respect to morphology, the student concludes that the attribute CASE(syntactic function) ts relevant, which yields the following rule:R7: if SYNTACI'IC FUNCTION: indirect object& GENDER: femalethen PRONOUN: luiAgain, the morpheme is overspecified, because GENDER is not anecessary condition.
Having noticed that GENDER was relevant for directobiects (-rule 3) the student has overgeneralized, assuming that it was alsorelevant for the indirect object.
It is noteworthy, however, that thisparticular overgeneralization does not produce incorrect results.Finally, the student asks the system to replace MARY b~/PAUL.
Gettingthe same answer as in 4 he concludes that for indirect objects theGENDER is irrelevant for syntax as well as for morphology.
Consequently,he relaxes the gender-constraint of rnlc 7.
Once again, this conclusion isvalid only with respect to the set of examples he saw.6.2 EXAMPLE DIALOGUE 2:This time the dialogue-mode is CAN ONE SAY.
The three colmnnscorrespond to the student's questions, his hypotheses, and his conclusions.The controlled variable (a change of attribute or a change of its value) isunderlined.insert figure 3 hereThe figure being rather self explauatory, We will make only some shortcomments.
At stage 3 the student wants to know whether thecomnmnicative role of the indirect object, the attribute PERSON, issyntactically relevant.
From the data he has seen, he conch, des that this wasnot the case.
However, this conclnsion, even though correct with respect tothe data, has to be revised in the light of new evidence (next sentence, i.e.,sentence 4).It is interesting to note, that the student would probably never have drawntbis conclusion if sentence 4 had preceded sentence 3. hT other words, hewould have noticed the relevancy of the attribute PERSON right away, andnever have drawn conclusion 5.l le LUI donnel TE le donneThis shows how the order of the data is a critical variable determining theefficiency of rule-inference, i.e., what conclusions are drawn at whatmoment.7 CAN MACHINES ACQUIRE LINGUISTIC COMPETENCY IN A'HUMAN" WAY ?Actually there are three questions:- Can machines learn?- Can they learn in an intelligent or "humaW' way?- What kind of knowledge would a computer program need to have in orderto learn the rules I have been talking about?The answer to the first question is clearly yes (see Michalski, Carbonell &MitcheU 1983).
The ,latter two questions are more controversial.
Let usbegin with the last one.Inductive learning basically consists of drawing conclusions li'om thesimilarities and differences of abstract data descriptions (contrastiveanalysis).
The crucial points are thus data description and analysis;- in what terms should we characterize the data?-what  additional kiud of knowledge isneeded to infer the rules ?13 \[)9CAN ONE SAY ?
HYPOTHE51S: CONCLUSION:1 i l  male  donne .
q l :  Do both objectsyes precede the verb ?q2: Which one precedesthe other  ?Is II me LAdonne Q\]: is the GENDER of theyea direct object syntacti-cally re levant?2a ~I me~r~_do nne Q~: la the NUMBER of theyes d i rec t  ob ject  syntact i -ca l ly  re levant?3 I IT \ [  le  donne QS| la PERSON of theyes indirect object syntac-tically relevant ?4 i l  LUL le donneno: i l l e  lu i  donne5 i l l e  S E gardeno= il ae le garde6 il S' ~ mOdUSyes7 i l  enLUIdonne Q6t i f  the DO : en &no: i l  lu i  en donne i f  the IO = lu i ,Wbich one of themprecedes the other ?8 i l  m~' an donneyeaAnswer to Oftyeet both objects precedethe verbAnnwer to Q2:the indirect object pre-cedes th~ direct oriels-Ig-OO-VAnswer to Q):the GENDER is syntnct i ca l -ly not relevantAnswer to Q4:the variable NUMOER ia notrelevant for syntaxAnswer to Q5:no, PERSON is not relevantfor syntaxCorrectian and refinementof Conclusions 2 and 5:the variable PERSON ia syn-tactlcally relevant=Concluoion 6:if PERSON-IO: 3dthan= S-DO-IO-VConclusion 7:if PERSON-IO: fat or 2ndthem S-\[O-DO-Vrefinement of conclusion 6Canclusion 8:i f  PERSON-IO: 3di f  V-CONSTRUCT.= ref lex.then= S-\[O-OO-Vconfirms conclusion 8conclusion 9=if NUHBER~DO: indefinitethen= S-IO-DO-VAnswer to q6:the indirect object, conse-quently conclusion 6 has tobe Pefined.Conclusion lO=i f  PERSON-IO: 3di f  NUHBER-DO: indef in i tethen: 5-IO-DO-Vconfirms conclusions 7 & 9with regard to the examplesgiven in 7 and 9 we may re-lax the, PERSON-canstraintof conclusion 10F IGURE 3Obviously, a system capable of performing the kind of learning we havebeen talking about would have to be able to parse the sentences; that is, itwould have to produce as output an adequate description of the inputsentences described above.This raises a terminological problem.
Data can be described in various ways.Different descriptions can be functionally equivalent (7).
Clearly, the choreaof metalinguistm terminology differs depending on whether the goal ismachine learning or modelling "human'rlearnmg.
In the first case, theproblem is descriptive adequacy, whereas in the second case we deal withan additional constraint, hat ot the universal status of the terminology.
Doall humans, irrespective of culture and education, use the kind of termslinguists use to analyze sentences ?
Is there a universally shared subset ofmetalinguistic vocabulary ?
In the absence of answers to these empirical~tuestions we will stick with the terminology currently used in computationalhnguistics.?
A differeut, but related problem is the guestion of how a system may beenabled to draw conclusions from a set of data (infering eneral rules).As we have said above, generalizations are made on the basis of contrastiveanalysis.
In order to allow for such generalizations, the learning componentneeds a hierarchically structured metalanguage, that is, a vocabulary whoselow level concepts (primitives) are subsumed by more highly ordered,abstract forms of knowledge.
For example:masculine & feminine = = > GENDER;singular & plural = = > NUMBER;subject, direct object = = > CASEWe will now turn to the question of whether computers can learn in anintelligent or "human" way ?
Obviously this question raises the problem ofwhat intelligence is.
Instead of answering this question, we will focus on twoaspects of intelligent learning, namely economy and flexibility of methods.Exhaustive search is neither natural nor economical.
Since memory isassociative, we find it hard to be consistently s stematic.
Like gamblers, wetend to use search methods which are more or less risky.People (learners) generally have a set of methods and a separatecomponent (critique) for evaluating these strategies with respect o theirrelative efficiency.
As different proSlems require different problem-solvingmethods, it is very unlikely that there is a umque, universal problem-solvingmethod.
People tend to be opportunistic in their approach rather thansystematic or scientific.
Both tile nature of strategies and the depth ofprocessing will vary with the needs of the learner.
Corrolarily, it is equallyunlikely that one fmds the optimal method immediately, since one operateson incomplete data.
Inductive learning is typically incremental.
Hencemethods have to be adapted or gradually refined in the light of newevidence.Intelligent learning is thus intimately linked to strategic knowledge (8) andto (more or less) general information-processing principles.
Theseprinciples may be expressed in terms of simplidty, informativeness,generality, andso forth.For example, the notion of simplicity may be used to choose amongdifferent options.
In fact, a learner could hypothesize that two-placepredicates (to see) are simpler to process than three-place predicates (togive).The notion of information is related to efficiency.
It can be used to reducethe search space.
This claim is substantiated bythe fact that rules governingmorphology of first and second persons (I, you) are generally learned fasterthan those which determine the form of the third person (he).In conclusion, we believe that, in principle, certain aspects of intelligentlearning could be modelled by a computer.
However, before trying tomodel human learning, it may be worthwhile to start gathering data on ~aowhumans learn.
This is precisely one of our goals.
By watching people astheyuse this tool, i.e.
by keeping a trace of the dialogue, one should be able toinfer the strategies they use.8 CONCLUSION :We have described a system under development that is meant o be a toolfor theory builders (cognitive psychologists), application designers(language teachers) and end users (students).
The system is meant o assistpsychologists teachers and students in their respective tasks: modellearning, optimize teaching and learning strategies.The emphasis in this paper has been on learning rather than teaching.
Forthe time being the task of learning is to be performed by a human, however,in principle it is possible to extend the system so as to allow for automaticlearning, the ultimate goal being to model human-like behavior.Computers, with their large, indelible memories, are powerful tools.
Theyallow us to control virtually any number of parameters.
Consequently, one?
'an trace a reasoning process or test a given theory, i.e., determine",~mpirically how different variables affect the efficiency of learning, and soforth.This has an interesting consequence with respect to theoreticalcommitments.
Instead of claiming an all-encompassing model or theory,one can write a program general and flexible enough to permit he testingof various theories.
That is what we are trying to do.Watching how people use the tool, we may gain insights about the wayhumans learn (strategies), and thus eventually move from artificial tonatural intelligence.NOTES :(1) This message has to be interpreted.
Thus the learning task is notthe surface form of the message, i.e., words and sentences, but theunderlying principles (abstractions: rules and sentence patterns)allowing tqaetr generation.
While some forms (e.g., words) have to belearneR, they generally serve for illustrative purposes.
Rote learning ofthe entire set of surface forms (words and word combinations) is notonly inefficient, but in fact impossible, because of time constraints:there are more possible combinations than we have time to learn.Learning is thus more than a quantitative change of performance(speed, number of errors).
It generally implies a restructuring of theknowledge base.
(2) It should be noted, however, that we are not dealing here withchildren learning afirst language.
Instead we would like to model someaspects of the sctentific-minded foreign language learner.
(3) One may object that there is a global goal, namely learning thelanguage.
However, it seems to me that the primary goal iscommunication rather than attaining a local objective like, let us say,learning the pronoun system in French.
(4) For a more detailed discussion, in particular with respect o theprocedural implications, see Zock, et al (1986).8105) In art ambiguous situation the system will either produce all casessee here above), or ask for clarification.
For example:Student: How does one say: il te me pr6senteSystem: This depends on what you want to say.Do you mean (a) or (bl?
(a) il te pr6sente ~moi " "(b) il me pr6sente .~ toi(6) This last problem, which consists in finding the right degree ofgenerality (underspecification vs overgeneralization), is partteularlydelicate in that conclusions have to be reached on the basis ofincomplete data (incremental learning).
(7) This fact is illustrated by the variety of parsers.
Parsers analyzesentences and assign them descriptions on various levels such as: partof speech, syntacti~ function, case-roles and so forth.
For a review ofthe state of the art See King (1983) or Winograd (1983).
For a Frenchparser see Francopoulo (1986).
(8) These strategies could either be part of the system, in which casethey must be explicit (one needs a model), or they could be part of thelearning process, in which case the system learns not only domainspecific knowledge but also methods of how to learn (metaknowiedge).REFERENCF, S:Francopoulo,G.1986 Machine Learning as a Tool for building a Deterministic Parserin: Rollinger C. & Horn,W, Second Austrian Congress onArtificial Intelligence, GWAI 86, Springer VerlagKing,M.1983 Parsing Natural Languages, Academic Press, New York, 1983Michalski,R., Carbonell,J.
& MitchelI,T.1983 Machine Learning: An Artificial Intelligence Approach TiogaPub ishing Company, Palo Alto, Cal forniaWinograd,T.1983 Language as a Cognitive Process, Addison-Wesley, Reading,Mass.Zock,M., G.Sabah, C.Alviset1986 From Structure to Process: Computer Assisted Teaching ofvarious Strategies for Generating Pronoun-Constructions inFrench, in: Proceedings of the l lth COLING, Bonn811
