Concret ion :  Assumpt ion-Based  Unders tand ingPaul S. JacobsArtificial Intelligence ProgramGE Research and Development CenterSchenectady, NY 12301 USAAbst ractA language understanding program must produce as pre-cise a meaning representation as possible from a linguisticinput.
CONCRETION is the process of developing a specificinterpretation by combining various levels of conceptualinformation.
This process represents an assumption-basedmethod of language interpretation, and departs from thetraditional approach of treating multiple interpretationsas independent.
Concretion Mlows the language analyzerto develop a sufficiently specific representation withoutexcessive computation or brittle interpretation rules.1 In t roduct ionThe ambiguity and imprecision of language are the key prob-lems in building language understanding programs.
Most sys-tems that perform semantic interpretation \[Bobrow and Web-ber, 1980, Sondheimer et al, 1984, Lytinen, 1984, Hirst,1987\] address this imprecision by offering means of selectingamong alternative interpretations.
The problem with theseapproaches i that they fail to take into account the interre-lationshiPS among the interpretations, which often support orrefute one another to various degrees.
A better model is onein which the candidates exist not as distinct choices but as as-sumptions contributing to a complete meaning representation.The language understanding process thus gradually refines asemantic representation based on the support or refutation ofeach element.For example, consider the following potential inputs:1.
John cut the salami.2.
John gave a kiss to Mary.3.
The investor group seeking control of Warnaco...4.
The ~rm' command takes three arguments.5.
Move back to the last position.The examples above represent potential inputs from sev-eral disparate real and "toy" domains of TRUMP (TRans-portable Understanding Mechanism Package)\[Jacobs, 1986b,Jacobs, 1987\].
The idea of TRUMP is to use a combinationof "core" knowledge about language and certain specializedknowledge to produce a complete semantic interpret~ation.
Ieach of the examples, the italicized word or phrase representsa vague, ambiguous, or metaphorical verb sense.
The prob-lem for a good semantic interpreter is to derive the real orintended sense of each phrase without excessive computationor specialized knowledge.
For example, the following are rea-sonable paraphrases of a complete semantic interpretation ofthe above examples:1.
John cut the salamicut =~ sliced (NOT chopped or shortened)27oi2.
John gave a kiss to Marygave a kiss ~ kissed (NOT presented)3.
The investor group seeking control of Warnaco...seeking =~ trying (NOT searching)4.
The ~rm' command takes three argmnents.takes ~ requires as input (NOT moves)5.
Move back to the last position.Move back =# return (NOT move backwards)Each of these examples represents a clear, ordinary use oflanguage.
Yet a semantic interpreter must use a great deal ofknowledge to distinguish the intended sense of the italicizedphrase from other related ahd competing senses.
It is sim-ply not practical to treat this process as one of discriminatingamong a large set of distinct interpretations.
The space of in-tended meanings is too large, and there are too many commoncharacteristics of various senses.
To deal effectively with thecomplexity of this process, a semantic interpreter must accom-plish the following:1.
Identify prospective interpretations--The system must uselinguistic information to select interpretations that areconsistent with the input.2.
Use linguistic and conceptual knowledge to combineinterpretations-This may result in ruling out certain can-didates, or in forming new and more precise interpreta-tions from the combination of knowledge sources.3.
Assume a specific interpretation--As in the above exam-ples, a practical understanding of the input must be some-what more than the maximum that can be "safely" in-ferred.
The system must produce some knowledge struc-tures that are likely candidates but are not certain fromthe linguistic description.4.
Fail gracefully on contradictions--If an assumed interpre-tation results in a contradiction, the system must preservethose interpretations that do not conflict.
If other inter-pretations are dependent on a conflicting one, these toomust be discarded.The requirements above suggest a model of language un-derstanding that progressively refines a semantic intet~preta -tion, based on linguistic and contextual information, but thatincorporates into each specific interpretation knowledge uponwhich that interpretation builds.
In other words, the ultimategoal of the system is to produce the most specific consistentinterpretation, and the means of achieving that goal is to treateach interpretation as an assumption.This assumption-based interpretation process is known asCONCRETION * \[Wilensky, 1983\].
The idea of concretion is to*This term was originally proposed by Joe Faletti.
The problem of con-cretion was initially defined in a series of seminars conducted by Robertdetermine ~u~ specific a meaning as is possible from an input,while enabliltg recovery if this interpretation proves overly spe-cific.
This process is the essential element of a framework thatsatisfies the criteria mentioned above.Concretion is an important method for dealing with theproblem of vagueness and imprecision as framed above.
A sys-tem that pexforms concretion can successfully produce a com-plete interpretation without overcommitting to such an inter-pretation.
The discussion that follows describes the concretionprocess as implemented in TRUMP and considers how thistechnique improves upon previous approaches.2 Concret ionConcretion :b~ the process of taking abstract concepts and pro-dating from ~hem concepts that are more precise, or concrete.The motivation for this mechanism is strong in story under-standing \[Norvig, 1983, Wilensky, 1983\], because understand-ing a story ~,eems to involve a continuous refinement of themajor concepts into more specific categories.
Concretion doesnot really involve inferencc, since often the specific meaning isquite explicit, in the text.
The process of concretion is evidentin understmlding simple words and phrases in limited linguis-tic contexts as well, as illustrated in the examples presentedearlier.Concretion is important because it is the mechanism thatallows general knowledge about language to apply at very spe-cific levels o{ semantic interpretation.
This is essential for nat-ural language interfaces and well as text processing systems,because it allows a core of linguistic and conceptual knowledgeto be used for a variety of domains, mid makes the additionof domain-specific linguistic knowledge asier.
For example,knowledge about verbs such as give and take and their rela-tion to transfer-events applies in discussing operating systemsor corporate ~akeovers as well as in more general applications.It is hard to see how portability can be achieved without thccapability to entertain a range of inter,elated meaning repre-sentations.A typical natural anguage input can test several aspectsof the concretion process.
In example 3, the investor groupseeking control of Warnaco, A first-pass emantic analysis de-rives a seeking action--The investor group is the searcher, andcontrol of Warnaco is being sought.
Domain-independent con-ceptual knowledge suggests that looking for a state means try-ing to realize the state.
Domain-specific knowledge producesthe assmnpti(m that the phrase describes a corporate takeoverattempt.
An interpretation of this specificity is necessary todrive inferences and cooperative responses.The concretion process is illustrated in figure 1.
Eachstage descril)ed above, and each knowledge source, must bedistinct.
The surface level semmltic analysis is essential be-cause it derives conceptual relations that would apply also to"looking for", "searching for", and even "pursuing"; this analy-sis thus avoids the redundant representation f each construct.This intermediate analysis also makes it possible to use ab-stract conceptual roles (such as actor and recipient) to deter-mine specific underlying roles (such as the target and suitorof a corporate takeover) (of.
\[Jacobs, 1987\]).
The second as-pect of concretion, applying conceptual knowledge to produceWilensky at the University of California t Berkeley.
In addition to Wilen-sky, Faletti, and the author, participants in these seminars included YigalArens, Margare~ Butler, David Chin, Chuck Fillmore,' Paul Kay, MarcLuria, Jim Martin, Jim Mayfield, Peter Norvig, Lisa Rau, and Nigel Ward.
"The investor group seeking control of Warnaco"Lexical/syntactic \]mechanismThe sentence is about a seeking;what's being sought is control1 Conceptual Seeking a state is u.sually knowledge trying to act~ieve t~e state~ : ~ w  C?ntextual/ domain Attempts to controlledge companies are takeoversThe investor group is probably trying to acquire Warnaco.Figure 1: Concretion integrates knowledge sourcesmore specific interpretations, i  necessary to refine vague termsand identify metaphorical or other non-literal constructs.
Thethird component, using domain-specific knowledge, separatesthis general conceptual knowledge from assumptions that de-pend on an implied context~ the domain of corporate takeoversin this example.2 .1  Types  o f  Concret ionConcretion is the specialization of an abstract concept to amore precise interpretation i a given context.
As tile exam-ples of the previous sections illustrate, concretion can involvea combination of linguistic and conceptual knowledge, and canresult in either a direct specialization or a metaphorical exten-sion.
In all cases, concretion re(tuires four ingredients:* An instantiated concept o be specializede A linguistic or conceptual "trigger"e A target concept ypeo A conceptual relation between source and targetFor example, in John cut the salami, the concept to beconcreted is cutting, the trigger is the combination of cuttingwith ediblc-obloid or some such~ the target concept is slicing(indicated by the trigger), and the relation is subcategoriza-tion, or DOMINATEs.Concretion is often triggered by a linguistic structure, suchas a particular combination of lexical items or the use of a cer-tain phrase structure.
Figure 2 shows the concretion of theconcept cutting to the concept, severing in the phrase cut thetip off.
In this case, the knowledge base contains the infor-marion that severing is DOMINATEd by cutting.
The DOMI-NATE relation, labeled D, indicates that severing is a subcat-egory of cutting \[Wilensky, 1984\].
Diagonal inks labeled withitalicized words show relationships between concepts and con-ceptual roles.
The specialization of cutting in this instance istriggered by the linguistic relation v_part-cut_o?, representingthe use of the verb cut with the particle off.A specific interpretation is often reached through a seriesof concretions, as in the seeking control example.
In the case ofcut, the assumed interpretation can be further specialized if theconceptual object is of a particular type, such as body_part, as2"7\].The doctor cut the tip off.\[ cutting \] .Instantiated -,,,~bject Trigger:\] v._part-cut_off\]concept: I tip I\[ cutting \] \] severing IKnowledge A Result: x,~object~ase: /~  I tip \]I sewring IFigure 2: Concretion with Linguistic Triggershown in figure 3.
In this example, the concept of amputatingis reached through a combination of linguistic and conceptualclues,The doctor cut the leg off,\[ severing \] " \] severing \]Instantiated ~",1~ bject x,,~object Trigger:Concept: I leg I \]b?dy-partl\ [ sever ing \ ]  \]amputating~objec tKnowledge DI  Result:Base: \[ leg I\[ amputaring\]Figure 3: Concretion with Conceptual TriggerAn intended meaning is not necessarily a subcategory ofan intermediate interpretation, asshown by the seeking controlexample.
Associations between concepts that are analogous ormetaphorically related are represented as VIEWs\[Jacobs andRau, 1985, Jacobs, 1986a\], which also associate related roles.Figure 4 illustrates the application of a VIEW in the concre-tion process.
In this example, the use of the noun kias to de-scribe the conceptual object of a giving serves as a trigger.
Ageneral VIEW of action as transfer-event relates giving (whichis a tranffer-event to kissing (which is an action), and alsothe recipient of the giving to the conceptual object of the ac-tion.
The m label (for MANIFEST) on some roles indicatesthat the roles are not necessarily specializations of any moreabstract relations.
When used in this concretion, the VIEWderives a kissing concept with Mary as the kissee.
There aretwo conceptual objects in a kiss--the person being kissed andthe surface being kissed--and the concretion mechanism ustuse constraints on these roles to determine the correct role.The above examples how several ways in which concre-tion results in the creation of a specific interpretation using acombination oflinguistic and conceptual relationships.
The ex-amples also demonstrate hat different ypes of concretion canbe combined, as in cut the leg off.
In any of these cases, a slightvariation in the input can negate the resulting interpretation.When this happens, the concretion mechanism retreats to in-termediate structures, thus preserving as much of the semanticresult as possible.
In the doctor cut the leg off accidentally orthe doctor cut the leg off the table, the system will preservethe severing interpretation.
Each concretion, therefore, is anJohn gave Mary a kiss.I giving I Trigger:l givir.
.
.
.
.
: rec lD.
- '~"~ject  lnstantlatea * "~Concept: I mary II kissing I,.ng I ,,,,,~object\]noun_kiss \]t r a n s f e r - e v e n ~Base: ~ m ~ m Kn?wledge\[ i recipi:nt ~ J~ ~\[ kissing \[ ,,Result:Figure 4: Concretion using VIEWsassumption that explicitly depends on its trigger and on otherconsequential relationships.2 .2 Re la ted  ResearchMost language analyzers do not really perform concretion.Unification-based systems \[Pereira nd Warren, 1980, Pereiraand Shieber, 1984, Gawron et al, 1982\] tend to refine semanticrepresentations by adding semantic FEATURES, represented asvariables with assignments.
Some of the systems that use a KL-ONE knowledge representation \[Bobrow and Webber, 1980,Sondheimer ct el., 1984\] perform a similar function, but usespecific interpretation rules to place concepts in more specificcategories, rather than to attempt an algorithm for combininglexical and conceptual knowledge.
Hirst's\[Hirst, 1987\] "Po-laroid Words" are described in a manner similar to concretion:the "words" gradually develop into a complete representation.However, each word sense is still independent; a "polaroidword" cannot, for example, confiate two word senses.
Lytinen'sMOPTRANS\[Lytinen, 1984\] includes a specialization mecha-nism that selects the most specific applicable frame, but likethe Polaroid Words, it does not take into account he commonassumed meaning.
None of these approaches allows interpreta-tions to be mapped or refined into more precise interpretations.Other related research addresses the problem of concretionfrom a different perspective.
Norvig's work \[Norvig, 1986\] con-centrates on conceptual concretion as inference, independentof the linguistic issues.
Zernik and Brown \[Zernik and Brown,1988\] model anguage as a reason maintenance process, unlikeTRUMP, which incorporates principles of reason maintenancewithin a more traditional linguistic framework.3 The  Concret ion  A lgor i thmThe discussion that follows describes the details of the concre-tion mechanism of the TRUMP semantic interpreter.3.1 When to  ConcreteConcretion is performed according to the following rules:?
When a linguistic description produces a new conceptualstructur G concrete it.New pieces of conceptual knowledge are continually de-rived as the linguistic input is processed.
When a newconcept is produced, the new knowledge can interact with272existing knowledge to produce a more specific interpreta-tion.
~'or exm~lple, in "John cut the salami," a cuttingwith John as cutter is later concreted to a slicing, whenthe concept of salami is produced.o When a grammatical structure is completed, try to con-crete the concepts to which it refers.When a verb phrase is completed, for example, there maybe a li:~t of concepts to which the verb phrase potentiallyrefi;rs: Since the verb phrase can be enveloped by gram-maritaL structures that necessarily refer to the stone con.-cepts, the conceptual knowledge produced fl'om the verbphrase must be combined with any concepts producedfl'om these enveloping structures.
In "With a knife, Johncut the salami", the meaning of the main clause is con-creted using tim prepositional phrase.Smnmary :  Perform concretion whenever new conceptualinformation,, might result in a more specific semantic interpre-tation.3?2 Ho ly  ~o ConcreteThe concretion p~'ocess i performed by taking two conceptsand combining their conceptual content o produce a more spe-cific concepL Generally, this results in filling out specific rolesof the derived concept with more general role fillers.
Concre-tion can a\]E:o result in deriving a non-literM interpretation, asin the "give a kiss" and "take argmnents" examples.The coacreLion process often will Nil, for example if thesame role is: filled by different concepts.
In "Mary was given aletter to BIll", this hlocks the possiMlity that Bill is the recip-ie'nt and tlms also resolves the attachment of the prepositionalphrase (tho.
correct interpretation is A letter to Bill was givento Mary).
In other cases, concretion maps conceptual rolesinto new roles or subsumes roles altogether.
In "give a kiss",the role of "kiss" as conceptual objecl, disappears entirely inthe concrete concept kissing.
However, any modifiers of "kiss"become rol('s of the new concept, so "John gave Mary a quickkiss" is interpreted as "John kissed Mary quickly".
In this casethe relation..dfip between the literal giving concept and the con-crete kissin,,!
is called a VIEW.The concretion mechanism keeps track of the linguisticsl, rnctures vpon which each concept is dependent.
Titus if theparsing pro(;ess later discards a linguistic structure that hasviolated a constraint, a bookkeeping mechanism can discardany concepts that hinge upon that structure.
For example,the phrase "'the command sent the message" has two parses,one in which the command, like 'rm', is sending a message,and the other in which tim command is receiving the message.
(One parse is a complete sentence, the second is a complexuoun phrase.)
In the garden path sentence, "the command:;ent the m(ssage halted", the semantic interpretation of thecommand playing the role of sender must be discarded for syn-tactic reasons.
Tiffs resembles dependency-directed hacktrack-ing \[Doyle, 1979, DeKleer, 1986\], but is accomplished simplyby eonstanL)y throwing away concepts that are no longer validinterpret aft, ms.The input to tim concretion algorithm in TRUMP is aconcept Cot,t to bc concreted, and a new piece of information(2 ...... also expressed as a concept.
Concept C, ,~ may comefl'om a newlj interpreted piece of linguistic information, a lexi-cal or conceptuM specialization rule, or a conceptual inference.The process operates as follows:o I f  C ..... is a snbcategory of Cold, form a concept of the.
same type as b, and merge Col~'s roles with C,~eto's roles.This results in a concreted concept of the more specifictype, with a's roles converted to roles of the new type.?
If  Cold is a V IEW of C .
.
.
.
.
proceed as i fC  ..... were asubcategory of Cold, except use ROLE-PLAYs  from theVIEW.This is the metaphor application process: The result ofconcretion is a new concept of the type of b, but the rolesmust be filled according to tile same VIEW that producedb.?
i f  a role at any ~tagc is filled by two different tokens, fail.Concretion does not allow conflict in the filling of ROLE-PLAYs.
if a VIEW results in the application of a ROLE-PLAY that potentially fills more than one role, conflictmay be avoided.
For example, in "All gave a punch to thejaw to t'h'azier", the two "to" phrases are allowed, but areautomatically excluded from describing the: same concep-tual role.I f  concretion results in the farther specification of a VIEW,re-apply the VIEW.This is another bookkeeping process.
If a concept hasalready been concreted by a VIEW and then is furtherspecified by concretion, the same VIEW is automaticallyapplied.
Thus, if a transfer-event is interpreted uringconcretion to produce an execute-operation a d the objectrole of the transfer-event is later filled, the input role ofthe execute-operation is also filled.?
I f  concretion results in violating a constraint, undo all con-cretions dependent on the concreted concept.Since concet)ts that have already been concreted can con-tinue to have their roles filled by concretion, it is possi-ble that a violated constraint may eliminate many specificinterpretations.
These interpretations are treated as as-sumptions dependent on other concretions; thus keepingtrack of tile dependencies allows assumed interpretationsto be easily terminated based on new information.Sunrmary:  Produce the most specific conceptual interpre-tation of the input, with the appropriate roles filled, taking careto avoid conflicting interpretations.Many complex data structures and implementation issuesare involved in the details of the above process.
However, thispresentation should suffice to describe how concepts are re-fined during semantic interpretation by applying conceptualand metaphorical knowledge.4 Summary and Conc lus ionEven within a specialized omain, a semantic interpreter mustproduce a meaning representation that is more specific than isnecessarily implied by the linguistic input.
This means thatthe underst,'mding program must choose among a broad rangeof potentiM word senses, making it impractical to treat each ascompletely distinct.
A better method is to make assumptionsabout the meaning of the input and proceed with processingfl'om these assumptions.
A major problem for the system isto select assumptions that m'e suggested by the input and tocorrect hese assumptions elegantly in the event of conflictinginformation.CONCRETION is the assumption-based part of semanticinterpretation.
The concretion mechanism described here se-lects the most specific oncept riggered by the input, fills outthe roles of this concept based on a variety of linguistic andconceptual information, and keeps track of the assumptions273upon which the concept is dependent.
If a contradiction isfound, either in filling out the roles or in later stages of ma-derstanding, the system is able to use these dependencies tocorreeL the interpretation without excessive processing.
Thisassmnption-based model Mlows processing of speeia.lized inter-prorations while permitting easy correction of assumptions thatprove invalid.i~,eferences\[Bobrow mM Webber, 19801 R. Bobrow and B. Webber.Knowledge represerttation for syn~,aetic/scmm~tic process-int.
In Proceedings of the National Conference on Artifi-cial l}~telligence, Palo Alto, California, 1980.\[DeKleer, 1986\] J. DeKleer.
An assumption-based truth main-tenance system.
Artificial Intelligence, 28(1), 1986.\[Doyle, 1979\] J. Doyle.
A truth mailltenailee system.
ArtificialIntelligence , 12(3), 1979.\[Gawron et al, \]982\] J. M. Gawron, J.
King, J. Laraping, E.Loebner, A. Paulson, G. Pullum, I.
Sag, mM T. Wa-sow, The GPSG linguistics ystem.
In Proeeeding~ ofthe 20th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Lingui,~tics, Toronto, Ontario, 1982.\[Hirst, 1987\] G. Hirst.
Semantic Interpretation and the Reso-lution of Ambiguity.
Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge, Englmld, 1987.\[Jaeobs, 1986a\] Paul S. Jacobs.
Knowledge structures for nat.nral languar;e generation.
In Proceedings of the .EleventhInternational Conference on Computational Linguistics,Bonn, Germany, 1986.\[Jacobs, 1986b\] Paul S. Jacobs.
Language anMysis in not-so-limited domains.
In Proceedings of the Fall Joint Com-puter Conference, Dallas, Texas, 1986.\[Jaeobs, 1987\] Paul S. Jacobs.
A knowledge framework fornatural anguage analysis.
In Proceedings of the TenthNternational Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Milan, Italy, 1987.\[Jacobs and Ran, 1.985\] Paul S. Jacobs and Lisa F. Ram Ate:associating language with meaning.
In Tim O'Shea, ed-itor, Advances in Artificial Intelligence, pages 295-304,North Holland, Amsterdam, 1985.\[Lytinen, 1984\] Steven Lytinen.
The Organization of Knowloedge in a Multi..lingual, l~ttcgrated Parser.
PhD thesis,Yale University, 1984.\[Norvig, 1983\] P. Norvig.
Six problems for story under-standers.
In Proceedings of the National Conference onArtificial Intelligence, Washington, D. C., 1983.\[Norvig, 1986\] P. Norvig.
A Unified Theory of Inference forText Understanding.
PhD thesis, University of California,Berkeley, Berkeley, CA, 1986.
Computer Science DivisionReport UCB/CSD 87/339.\[Pereira nd Shieber, 1.984\] F. Pereira nd S. M. Shieber.
Thesemantics of grammar formalisms een as computer lan-guages.
In Proceedings of the Tenth international Confer-enee on Computational Linguistics, PMo Alto, California,1984.\[Pereira nd Warren, 1980\] F. Pereira and D. H. D. Warren.Definite Clause Grmnmars for language analysis--a sur-vey of the formalism and a comparison with mlgmentedtransition etworks.
Artificial Intelligence, 13, 1980.\[Sondheimer t al., 1984\] N. Sondheimer, R. Weischedel, ai~dR.
Bobrow.
Semantic interpretation using KL--ONE.
InProceedings of the Tenth .
(nter'aational Co.r~fe.renee onComputational Linguistics, Palo Alto, 1984.\[Wilensky, 1983\] R. Wilensky.
Memory and inference, h~ Pro?eeedings of the Eighth International Joint Conference onArtificial Intelligence, Karls,~ahe, Germany, 1983.\[Wilensky, 1984\] R. Wilensky.
KODIAK - a knowledge rep-resentation language.
In Proceedings of the Sixth AnnualConference of the Cognitive Science Soeiety~ Bonlder, C(4-ora~to, 1984.\[Zernik and Brown, 1988\] U. Zernik and A.
Brown.
Def~mll;reasoning in natural langnage processing.
In Proeecdingsof the Twelfth International Con\]erenee on ComputationalLinguistics, Budapest, Hungary, 1988.274
