A Formal  Computat iona l  Semant ics  and  Pragmat ics  o f  Speech  Acts*Eric WERNERUniversity of HamburgDepartment of Computer Science, Project WISBER, P.O.
Box 302762Jungiusstrasse 6, 2000 Hamburg 36, West GermanyandDepartment of Computer ScienceBowdoin College, Brunswick, Maine 04011, U.S.A.*This work was in part supported by the German Ministry for Research and Technology,BMFT, andwaspartofthejointprojectWISBER.
The WISBER partners include: Nixd0rfComputer AG, SCS GmbH, Siemens AG, the University of Hamburg and the University ofSaarbruecken.
It was also in part supported~by grants from Bowdoin College.AbstractThis paper outlines a formal computational semantics andpragmatics ofthe major speech act types.
A theory of forceis given that allows us to give a semantically andpragmaticaly motivated taxonomy of speech acts.
Therelevance of the communication theory to complexdistributed artificial intellince, DAI, systems i described.l IntroductionIn a system that engages in a dialogue with a userabout some domain, like the one we are building in theWISBER project \[Bergmann, Gerlaoh 87\], the problem ofdescribing the meaning of a speech act in terms of its effecton the user model and, more generally, on the system'sknowledge base becomes central.
The fundamentalproblem is that, until now, there has been no generalformal theory of meaning for speech acts.
Previous formalsemantic theories uch as Montague \[74\] and situationsemantics \[Barwise and Perry 83\] were l imited toassertions.
Cohen and Perrault \[79\] give only a theory ofhow speech actsare planned, the semantics being implicitin the add and delete lists of the operators.
Appelt \[85\]gives a semantics for assertions based on Moore \[80\] that iscompatible with our approach.
However, there is noexplicit theory of communication.
As Appelt himselfstates, what is lacking is an explicit theory of intention.Searle and Vanderveken \[85\] do little more than classHyspeech acts based on features that were seen as relevant totheir differentiation.
However, as we will argue below,those features are not motivated by any coherent theory ofmeaning.
The crucial features that define force are leftunanalyzed.
None of the above theories give a formalsemantics for nonassertive speech acts.
As Searle alsostates, what is missing is formal theory of iutentions.In this paper we outline a formal semantics andpragmatics of speech acts based on an explicit formaltheory of information and intention.
A formal description/0f the notion ofillocutionary force is given.
We take a newlook at Searle's a classification of speech acts.
In theprocess, we develop a deeper understanding of the rathervague notion of force.We start with Searle's classification of illocutionaryacts.
Searle and Vanderveken's definition of force iscriticized.
Next Habermas i criticized.
Next, referentialtheories of meaning are looked at critically.
Then wepresent our theory of the semantics and pragmatics ofspeech acts.
We then use that theory to give a theory offorce.
We then describe the speech acts in Searle'sclassification in terms of the semantic and pragmaticeffects they have in the communicative situation.
Finallywe show how the semantics and pragmatics ofspeech actsis related to the general communcative process in thesocial world and show that the class!fication f speech actsreally reflects the fundamental way agents use languageto coordinate and make possible their social actions.2.
Searle's Classification of lllocutionary ActsWhat distinguishes a request from an assertion?
Oneanswer is that their force is different.
But what is force?According to Searle, when humans communicate hey areengaged in an activity.
An utterance, according to Searle,can be broken down into two basic components, thei l locutionary force F and the propositional content p.The utterance is symbolized as F(p).
In order to classifythe different ypes of force F , Searle and Vanderveken\[85\] attempt to reduce the force of a speech act to moreprimitive features.
The force and the propositional contentis then used to divide speech acts into six general classes.In Searle's classification of illocutionary acts \[Searle75\] he distinguishes six general classes based on fourdimensions.
The four dimensions were the il locutionarypob~t (assertive t-, directive !, commissive C, expressiveE ~ declarative D, and representative d clarative Dr ), thedirection of fit (word-to-world $ , world-to-word t ), thepsychological state (believes B, wants W, intends D, andthe propositional content p .
The null symbol ?
wasused to indicate, that a given dimension had no instance.The following speech act classes were distinguished:1.
Assertives: t- $ B( p ) This says that theassertive t- (the illocutionary point) has a direction of fitof word-to-world $ , the psychological state B for thesincerity condition to hold must be that the speaker belivesB the propositional content expressed p. Example: Thespeaker states The door is open and belives that the door isopen.7442.
Directives: !
~' W(H does A) This states thatthe directive !
has a direction of fit of world-to-word ~,the psychololgical state must be that the speaker wantsthat the hearer H do the action A.
Example: The speakergives the command Open the door and wants the door to beopened.
Nel~, here, as in the declaratives, we need certainrole presuppositions to hold.3.
Commissives: C ~' I(S does A) Thecommissive C has a direction of fit of world-to~.word ~",thepuychololgical state must be that the speaker S intends Ito do the action A.
Example: The speaker says I will openthe door and intends to do it.4.
Egpressives: E 0p(P)(S/H + Property) Theexpressive F, has no direction of fit ?p, the psychologicalstate should correspond to the emotion/attitude expressedby the speaker about the property of the spearker S orhearer H. E~ample: The speaker exclaims I like your coatand means il;.5.
D~clarations: D ~-*?
(p) The declaration Dhas a self-realizing direction of fit ?
* (since the statedescribed by the propositional content p is realized by thevery act of saying it).
There is no pyschological statenecessary and, hence, no sincerity condition.
However, thespeaker mu.~t have a certain institutional role, e.g., Insaying I resign or You're fired the speaker must have therole of employee or boss, respectively.6.
Representative D elaratives: Dr 4~B(P)The represe~ltative d clarative has a direction of fit ofword-to-world $( since the speaker bases his declarationon the recognition of some fact p ), and a self-realizingdirections of fit ~ (like declarations).
There is apsychological state in the sincerity condition that thespeaker must believe B the proposition expressed.Example: The umpire declaring, You i'e out or the judge, Ifind you guilty as charged.3.
Critique of Searle's Notion of ForceNote that the actual classes of illocutionary acts thatSearle distinguishes correspond exactly to the values of theillocutionary point dimension, it turns out that there is aone to one correspondence b tween the illocutionary pointand the type of speech act.
it should be evident hat thepoint of the ~Lpeech act is just another name for the speechact type a~d does not add any more distinguishinginibrmation for the individuation of that type from theothers.
Hence, one can conlude that it is the information ithe remaining three dimensions ( the direction of fit,pyschological state and propositional content) that reallydistinguish the speech act types considered by Searle.One is still left with the nagging question: But, what isthe force of an utterance?
Well, if we have an utterance u== F(p) ,and, if u is a directive, then u = !
I" W(H doesA)~ where the force F = I~'W and p = HdoesA.
But,if we are right about he irrelevance of the illocutionarypoint !
to t~e classification, then the force of a directivebecomes F : ~W and the utterance n becomes u =F(p) :~ ~' W(H does A).However, one can plausibly argue that the sinceritycondition W, that the speaker want the action indicated bythe propositional content, isreally not part of the force ofthe utterance.
For the utterance is understood by thehearer whether the speaker wants the action or not.
Forexample, itmay well be that a general is forced to order histroops to war, after a declaration of war by the president.The general's command still has its meaning and effectirrespective of his personal wants.
And, indeed, a littlereflection should convince the reader that the want Wdoes not contribute to the differentiation f the typology.So now we have reduced the force of a directive to a singleparameter value the direction of fit ~ .If we are so impertinent as to ask What is thedirection of fit?, we will find no ready answer that is notcircular.
The direction of fit of a directive is "world-to-words" ~.
In other words, the force of a directive is tochange the world using words.
Or, better, to influence anagent o change the world by conununicating a directive tothat agent.
In effect, in spite of all the symbols, the forceremains essentially an unanalyzed notion.
Little more issaid than that the force of a directive is differenct from theforce of an assertion.
Nothing new there.
Directives areused to change the world.
Assertions are used to describethe world.
True, but it is not enlightening.
Hence, wehave shown some of the dimensions tobe redundant, vagueand of questionable computational usefulness.
We havealso shown that the attempt to reduce the point feature tothe remaining features leads to a dead end.At the heart  of these prob lems lies a moredevastating pathology: We have seen that the point of thespeech act is redundant for Searle's classification ofspeechacts.
However, the point of the speech act is that part ofthe force that gives the central purpose of the act.
Searleand Vanderveken state that the point of a speech act is aclear enough concept to be used as a primitive notion in theformal theory.
'~lYhe notion of illocutionary point is thefundamental undefined primitive notion of illocutionarylogic."
\[p.fl7, Searle and Vanderveken 85\] Yet a few lineslater they say the analysis of the point of speech actsrequires a theory of mental states, specifically, a theory ofintentionality which they say is beyond the scope of thebook.
Thus, the point of a speech act is a very complicatednotion that requires a formal theory of psychology beforethat notion can be made formally rigorous.
They also statethat the point of a speech act is the most importantcomponent of the force \[p.14, Searle and Vanderveken 85\].Since the force of a speech act is the most importantelement hat differentiates speech act theory fromtraditional referential semantics, the point of the speechact is the central theoretical notion in the foundations ofthe theory of speech acts.
Yet it is the point of the speechact that is left unanalyzed in Searle's formal account.To sum up, the features constituting the notion offorce are not motivated by any coherent theory of themeaning of speech acts.
As Searle and Vandervekenadmit, they have no semantics for the two most centralfeatures in the definition of force, namely, the point anddirection of fit of the speech act.
Instead, they leave thesenotions primit ive.and unanalyzed.
That, however,amounts to leaving the notion of force an unanalyzedconcept.
As Searle himself states, a proper theory of force-requires a theory of intention.
We outline such a theory ofintention in this paper and use it to formally define theforce of a speech act.
7454.
Speech Acts in CommunicationThe necessity of social cooperation gives birth tocommunication.
The reason that utterances have theeffect of actions is because they influence the cognitivestate of the conversants.
It is the harmony of the cognitivestates of agents that makes possible cooperative socialaction and forms the basis of society \[Werner 88 a, b\].On our view the meaning of the speech act is bestunderstood if we understand how the speech act is meantto influence the cognitive states of the conversants in thecontext of a social activity.
The force of a speech act lies inits unique distribution of effect on the cognitive substatesof the social agents.One objection to our view may be that the theory of howa speech act effects the hearer  is the s tudy ofperl0cutionary effect.
The perlocutionary effect is subjectto the idiosyncrasies of individual performance andunderstanding and, therefore, cannot be the meaning ofthe speech act.
We think differently.
One must make adistinction, analoguous to Chomky's for syntax, betweenthe ideal competence of the understanding subject (i.e., theability of the subject to understand the speech act) and theactual cognitive performance.
The meaning of a speechact is described by how it is to effect the ideal cognitivestate of the conversants, given that the message isaccepted.
(see Perrault \[87\] for a similar view)5.
Critique of HabermasHabermas \[81\] suggests that  to get a theory ofmeaning for all sentences of a natural anguage, we haveto generalize truth conditions to general satisfactionconditions.
This would imply that assertions are giventruth conditions, moral assertions being right or wrongare given r ightness condit ions and~intention statementsbeing sincere or not are given sincerity conditions.
Sincecomands are legitimate or not they would, presumably, begiven legit imacy conditions.Habermas'  hypothesis is based on a confusionbetween presuppositions (rightness, incerity, legitimacy),truth conditions, and a theory of meaning.
The generalproblem is that the rightness, sincerity and legitimacyconditions are not sufficient to specify and differentiate hemeaning of one sentence from another.
The generalsatisfaction conditions are inadequate for meeting therequirements of a semantic theory.
Consider the example,I wil l go to the market tomorrow.
Here the intentionexpressed may or may not be sincere.
Even if it is sincere,this sincerity in itself does not distinguish it from I amgoing to go fly a kite.
The content and point of the sentenceis missed.
The sincerety condition is independent of themeaning of the sentence.
It says nothing of the semantictheory that specifies the semantic ontent and pragmanticpoint.I wil l VP ,  where VP is some verb phrase describingsome action, is sincere if the speaker's intentions SA aremodified to be in accord with the meaning of the sentence.You should not have done X is r ight if the act X is notallowed by the prevailing norms.
Here again the rightnessby itself is not enough to determine the meaning of thenormative claim.
The comand Attack!
is legitimate ornot depending on if the requisite roles and authorityrelations exist and are accepted by all parties concerned.746But this legit imation condition does not dist inguishAttack!
from Retreat /nor  from any other comand.
Thelegitimation claim that is raised and presupposed bygiving a comand does not specify the meaning of thecomand itself.There is a false analogy drawn between the generalsatisfaction conditions and truth conditions.
While truthconditions do differentiate assertive sentences that havedistinct meanings, a truth conditional semantics does notgive the meaning of a sentence xplicitly.
They do notconstruct a semantical object that is meant to be thesentence's meaning.
Classical non-situational semanticsof basic sentences did not differentiate the meanings ofsentences except indirectly through differences in thecontent and form of the truth conditions.
However, insituation semantics, where basic sentences refer tosituations, we can refer to and differentiate sentencemeanings directly: And that is point!
The meaning of thebasic sentence is already given by the deeper situationsemant ics .
The t ru th  cond i t ions  are def ined bypresupposing the deep meaning of the sentence is alreadygiven.
So too for al l  the general ized satisfactionconditions.
The deep semantics and the pragmaticinterpretation f the sentence in question is presupposed inthe specification/defintion of the satisfaction conditions.A crucially important conclusion follows from theabove argument: It is that condit ions of use of a sentencein the sense of Wittgenstein, Austin, Searle, Cohen andPerrault and Habermas, are only indirectly related to themeaning of an utterance.
Meaning is not identical withthe conditions of use of the sentence.
It is not identical tothe preconditions of the speech action.
Instead, theconditions of use of a sentence presuppose the situationaland pragmatic meaning of the sentence.6.
Psychology and ForceBring me a br ick /and You brought me a brick mayboth refer to the same action.
While their semanticreference is the same, their force is clearly distinct.
Theexample shows that the meaning of a sentence cannot beidentified with its reference.
For in the example bothsentences have the same reference, namely, the action ofbringing the brick.
The difference in meaning lies in thedifference in the force, and, as we will see below, in thedifference in their pragmatic nterpretation.To explain this difference in force we will give apragmatic interpretation to the sentence.
A eomand steersaction by affecting the intentions of the hearer.
Its point isto affect those intentions.
The assertion, on the otherhand, affects the information state of the hearer and itspoint is to give information.
This difference of force is notexplainable by a purely referential theory, It requiresexplicit or implicit reference to mental states.
Thus, if wetake situation semantics to be the claim that the meaningof a sentence is the external situation it refers to, thensituation semantics can give no explanation of force.
If ittries to, it must bring in mental states.
Thereby, it is nolonger a purely referential theory.
However, as we will sees i tuat ion  semant ics  serves  as a foundat ion  forunderstanding and defining the propositional content ofspeech acts.A proper theory of speech act force requires a formal~heory of  psyehology~ Such a theory of psychology mustbc tbrmal because its variables, mental states, will be used\[n the ibl~ml analysis of the point.
Furthermore, a formalpsychology should sh6w the theoret ical  re lat ionshipsbetween the mental states.
Thus these mental states musthave a su:fficient complexi ty  to account for theseinb~rrelatio~as nd to explain the linguistic phenomena.Such a theory should provide the conceptual foundations~aeeded for the central and most important concept in;~peech act f;heory, in addition, it must account for thei'elationship between linguistic communication and socialcooperation,To get a theory of meaning for speech acts we thus willneed a theory of the intentional, informational, evaluative,and more genera l ly ,  the cogn i t ive  s tates  of theconvcrsants.
For a more detailed account of the generaltheory ofeommunication see Wcrner188a\].7.
Cognit ive StatesLet TP be the set of t ime per iods t where t imeinstants ar~ordered by a relation <.
Let Hist(Q) be thesetofpossible part ia l  histor ies ttt up to time t. Let Q bethe set ofalt  complete histories or wor lds  H. Worlds areseries of complete situations.
(See Barwise and Perry \[83\].
)A situation s is real ized in H at t if s is contained in Hand the domaine ofs is time period t. STRAT is the set ofall possible strategies, a * is the set of possible historiesconsi,~tent ~vith the strategy n The cogn i t ive  orrepresentat iona l  s ta te  R of a conversat iona lpart ic ipanL cp is described by three components R -= <I,S ,  V> .
~ is the informat ion state of the cp.
I isibrmalized as a set of possible partial histories.
S is theintentim~a~ state of the cp.
S is a set of possible strategiest.hat gaide the actions of the cp.
V is the eva luat ive stateof the cp.
Y represents the cp's evaluation and focus onsituations.
The representational state RA may include theagent A's representation f B's representation, RBA.
It mayalso inc lude the agent  A's  representat ion  of B'srepresentation of A's representation, Rn^^.
Thus we canrepresent arbitrary levels of nesting of representations.Let INF, INT, and EVAL be the set of all possiblein fo rmat i .n ,  in tent iona l ,  and eva luat ive  s ta tes ,~espectively.
Let the representat iona l  capaci ty  , Rep,be the set of all  possible representational states of a cp.For the theoretical foundations and some of the principlesin ter re la t ing  intent ion,  information and abi l i ty  seeWerner \[88c\].8.
Representat iona l  Semant icsA theory of the meaning of speech acts is a theory ofhow the representations of the cp are updated by theco~t~nunicative process.
The propositional content of thespeech act ~s given by a s i tuat ion semant ics  in the style ofl~arwise and Perry \[83\].
We call the  theory of howrepresentational or cognitive states are transformed bymessages  the pragmat ics  or representat iona l~emantics.
Given a language L we define a pragmaticoperator Prag,  where for each sentence a in L, Prag(a)is a function from Rep into Rep .
Thus Prag takes agiven sttb~'epresentational state such as I in R andtranstblzns i t inte a new substate I' = Prag(a)(I).9.
Communicat ion9.1 SyntaxTo i l lustrate how the representational semanticsworks we develop the pragmatic interpretation for a smalltemporal propositional language fragment we will call LpcThe language Lpt wil l  include logical and temporalconnectives: A (=and) ,  V (--- or), -1 (=not ) ,  A?
(= andthen), while (= while).
From atomic formulas  p ,q, webuild up complex  formulas  a A ~,  a V ~, -7 a, a A ~ i~,and u while ~ in the usual way.9.2 P ragmat ic  In terpretat ion  of Assert ionsFor any formula a in L , Prag(a) : Rep ~ Rep isa function that distributes over the representational stateR E Rep subject o the constraints that for all I ( INF , SE INT,and V E VAL , then Prag(a)(I) E INF, Prag(a)(S)E INT, and Prag(a)(V) E VAL , respectively.
Below weassume Holds( a, H, t) is defined by induction in the usualway where for atomic formulas Holds( a, H, t) if thesituation referred to by a is realized in H at t.Prag must additionally satisfy other conditions : Foratomic formulasPrag(a) : Rep ?
Rep .
Let Prag be defined for theformulas a and ~.Prag acts on information states as follows:Prag(a A \[~)(I) = Prag(a)(I) f) Prag(~)(I)Prag(a V ~)(I) -= Prag(a) (I) U Prag(~)(I)Prag(-1 a)(I) = I - Prag(a)(I)Prag (a A~ 13)(I) -= {Ht : Ht e I and there existtimes to, t' e TimePeriods, TP, where Holds( a, H,to) and Holds( ~, H, t') and to < t'}Prag (a while ~)(I) =- {Ht : Ht~ I and for all to,t' e TP,  if to contains t' then if Holds( \[~, H, t') thenHolds( a, H, to)}For example, the pragmatic interpretation of thesentence a = 'Jon opened the door' is arrived at as follows:n refers to the event of Jon opening the door.
Prag(a) is an?
operator on the hearer's information state I such thatPrag(a)I is the reduction of the set I to those historieswhere the event referred to by n occurred.
The hearer Aknows u if a holds in all the worlds in I .
Thus, A comesto know that a as a result of receiving and interpreting themessage a.9.3 l ' ragmat ic  In terpretat ion  o f  D i rec t ivesPrag acts on the intentional substates as follows:Prag(a A 13)(S) = Prag(a)(S) N Prag(13)(S)Prag(u V ~)(S) -- Prag(o)(S) U Prag(~)(S)Prag(-7 a ) (S) = S - Prag(u)(S)Prag (a h=~ l}) (S) -- {n : for all H e n * andthere exist times to, t' ~ TP where Holds( u, H, to)and Holds( 13, H, t') and to < t'}Prag (o while 13)(S) = { n : for all H e n*, existst, t' e TP such that Holds( a, H, t) and Holds( a, H,t') and t' contains t}.747For example, if a: = 'Open the door' , a refers tothe situation of the addressee A opening the door.
Prag(a)operates on A's intentional state SA such that A opens the?
door.
Prag does this by removing all those possible plansof A that do not force a .
Viewed constructively, a plan isincrementally built up by the Prag algorithm.
And thoseare the plans n that have some world H e n * where thesituation referred to by a is not realized in H. The result isthat the agent performs the directive in parallel to othergoals he may have.
Again, we are talking about the idealpragmatic ompetence.Note  that  P rag  descr ibes  the  pragmat iccompetence  of an ideal speaker and not the actualperformance.
He may for various reasons not accept hemessage.
But for him to understand the conventionalmeaning of the assertion or directive, the conversationalpart icipant must know what the effect of the message issupposed to be if he were to accept it, Thus, a Participantwill not just have an actual informational and intentionalstate I and S but also hypothetical representational statesHI and HS that are used to compute the pragmatic effect ofa given message.
If the participant hen accepts themessage , HI or HS will become a part of the actualrepresentational state R = (I, S, V).10.
P ragmat ic  OperatorsThe interpretation of utterances is actually morecomplicated.
For a given formula a are associated severaloperators that give different kinds of information.
Let fa= Prag( a ) the in terpretat ion  of a .
To describe the act- of  saying a we introduce another operator, acts is theoperator giving the infomation that a was just said.
~a isthe t ime operator  that shifts time according to how long ittook to say u .
Here we assume for simplicity that the actof uttering a takes one unit of time.
We could of Courserelativize the time operator to a .
Note, ~a~a ~ ~aCombining operators, acta~a is then the act of  utter ing a?
Note, acta~a = ~aactQ.
f, acta~a is the act of utteringand interpreting a.We have several cases possible when A asserts theinformative a to the audience B.1.
If B hears, understands and accepts a thenIB =I, f ,  acta~aIB .2.
If B hears, but does not understand or accept a ,then IB ?
acta~aIB .Note, if a is a directive then fa acts on SB and noton I l l .
Yet it is known what was said.
So here too,IB ~ acta~aIB .3.
I f  B hears something was said, but does not knowwhat was said, then IB ?
~aIB ?4.
More odd is the case where B does not hear abut gets the information of what was said subliminally andknows time passed.
Then Ill ~ fQ~aIll .The full interpretation of a for the audience Bdepends on its force.
Let Rll ?
=(IB, SB, VB).
Given thatthe message is accepted, some the cases are as follows:1.
Assert ions:  (Ill, SB, VB) ~ (faacta~aIB, SB, VB)2.
Comands:  (Ill,SB, VB) ~ (actaxaIB, faSB, VB)7483.
Statements  of Intention:(IB, SB, VB) ~ (acta~aIB, faSB A, VB)4.
Statements  of Value:(IB, SB, VB) ?
(acta~aIB, SB, faVB ^ )Be low we wi l l  s imp l i fy  mat ters  by usua l lysuppressing the action operator acts as well as the timeoperator ~a where the above cases indicate how the a morecomplete description would look like.
Note too, that thediscourse situation d can be viewed as yet anotheroperator acting on the information state ICp of thecoversational participants cp = A ,  B.
Since there arepoints of view, it is clear that the operator d is also afunction of the conversat ional  part ic ipant  and moregenerally of the role of the cp.
Similarly, as we will see,the pargmatic operator is also a function of the role of thecp in question.11.
Speech Act TheoryWe now give a semantic, pragmatic description ofsome of the speech acts in Searle's taxonomy.
First someneeded efinitions.
Given our formal pragmatics Prag foran utterance < s, a ,  h >,  where s is the speaker, a is thesentence xpressed and h is the hearer in the discoursesituation d, let the speaker s have representational stateRs = (Is , Ss , Vs ) and the hearer  h haverepresentational state Rh = ( Ih,  Sh , Vh ).
Thedifferent kinds of speech acts can be differentiated by howthey effect the cognit ive state of the conversants .Specifically, the force of  a speech  act  is the set ofsubrepresentations i  R that are to be transformed by thespeech act.
An intentional state S forces a goal  g, insymbols, Sn?
g i f f fora l l  n e S, n forcesg, i.e., ifffor allH ~ n*, g is realized in H. By definition the composite S +S' of two intentional states S, S' together force a goal  g, insymbols, S + S' I1~ g ifffor all n e S,  nO e S', and for allH ~ n* Cl no*, g is realized in H. Below we will use theshorthand notation of o1 for Prag(a)I = fa\[ ?1.
Assert ives:  Example: Billopened the door.1.1.
Ih a~ OIh 1.2.
Is h a ~ OIs h1.3.
Is Ir~ aRemark: Ih transforms to oI h ?
Assertives effect theinformational state of the hearer.
They also effect thehearer's representation of the speaker's beliefs?
Thesincerity condition that the speaker bel ieve what  heasserts is expressed by Is r l?
a .2.
Direct ives:  Example: Open the door/2.1.
Sh a~ aSh 2.2.
Ss h a~ ass  h2.3 Icp ~ acta~aIcpRemark: The comand updates the hearer's intentions toaS h where h does the action a. aS sh describes thespeaker's representation f the heater's new intentions.3.
Commiss ives:  Example: I will open the door.3.1.
Ss a~ ass  3?2?
Sh s a~ aSh sRemark: The speaker commits himself to following thosestrategies that insure the propositional content of a , i.e.,all the worlds in each .
*  realize the action referred to by a.aS h s represents the hearer's resulting representation ofthe speaker's modified intentions.4.
Declarat ions:Example: \[ resign, Your fired,4.1.
Ih a~ Ulh 4.2.
I s u=> UI s4.3.
Ss u~ ass4.4.
Sh a@ ash4.5.
S institution n~ uS institutionRemark: The both hearer and speaker update theirinformation states to UIh and OIs, respectively, where theyknow the resulting state brought on by the declaration.Furthermo:ce, a declaration such as "you're fired" hasspecific intentional consequences such as no longer beingpaid.
uS im~titution indicates that the declaration also hasinst itut iomd effects.
Namely, it effects the compositein tent ions  of al l  those with roles invo lved in theemployment relationship.
As we mentioned above, thePrag operator is also a function of the role the cp has.Viewed from another perspective, the stone speech act hasdi f ferent effects on the intent ions of di f ferent cp'saccording to the roles they occupy.5.
Representat ive  Declarat ives:Example: I find you guilty.5.1.
Ih 0?
OIh 5.2.
Is a~ O/s5.3.
Ss u::~ oSs 5.4.
Sh u =~ aSh5.5.
S institution a~ aS institution5.6.
Is II~ uRemark: The representative declarative differs from thedeclaration in that the former must be based on certainfacts obtaining.
Is I1~ a expresses this condition.Again we see how social roles in an institution are affectedby a declaration.
The judge's declaration of guilt  andsentencing has very specific intentional consequences forthe police and parole board, etc.
These complex intentionsare packed into the composite institutional role structureaSinstitution ?
What is so interesting is that our formalismallows us t,~) talk about such complex social processes.
I ttakes a small step toward a better understanding of therelationship between linguistic communieatibn and socialstructure, lit is this property of our theory that makes it apromising candidate for the design of the complex systemsbeing contemplated in distributed artificial intelligence.12.
Conclus ionWe have developed the outlines of a formal theory ofmeaning (semantics and pragmatics) of speech acts.
Toaccompl ish th is  we developed a formal  theory  ofin tent iona l  states.
We then re la ted  language toinformation and intention states.
We found that meaningis not identical to conditions of use, and that meaning isnot ident ica l  to reference.
The formal  theory  ofinformation and intention made it possible for us toconstruct a rigorous theory of the force of i l locutionaryacts.
The illocutionary force is defined in terms of thespecific subrepresentat ions that the speech act is tomodify.
The subrepresentations are only sketched.
Butthe point ef the approach is quite clear.
The cognitivestates of the conversational participants, for example,system and user, play a dominant role in the theory ofmoan ing  and force of speech acts.
An ac tua limplementation of an algorithm for Prag and an actualknowledge representation scheme to describe theinformation, intentional, and evaluative states requiresmak ing  s ign i f i cant ly  more deta i led system designdecisions.Within a wider context, we have aimed at providing ageneral theoretical framework for designing systems witha communicative competence using natural anguage.
Ourtheory fits well with planning models in robotics.
It alsofits well with discourse and speech act theories.
Of moreglobal  s ign i f icance is the fact that  our theory  ofcommunicat ion  f i ts  wel l  w i th  yon Neumann andMorgenstern's economic theory \[see yon Neumann andMorgenstern  47\].
This  is because our theor ies ofcommunication and intention allow us to define complexsocial roles and social structures \[Werner 88a, 88b\].
Thiswill hopefully help to clarify the complex relationshipbetween language and society.ReferencesAppelt, D. E.,PLANNING ENGLISII SENTENCES; Cambridge UniversityPress, New York, 1985.Barwise, J., and Perry, J.,SITUATIONS AND ATTITUDES, Bradford Books/MIT Press,1983.H.
Bergmann/M.
GerlachSemantisch-pragmatische Verarbeitung yon .~,uBerungen imnatiirliehsprachtichen Beratungssystem WISBER, in: W.Brauer, W. Wahlster (Eds.
): Wissensbasierte Systeme - G1-Kongress 1987.
Springer Verlag, Berlin 1987, pp.
318-327Cohen, P. R., and Perrault, C. R.,"Elements of a Plan-Ba~ed Theory of Speech Acts,"COGNITIVE SCIENCE, 3, pp.
177 - 212, 1979.Grosz, B. J.,"The Structures of Discourse Structure," Techn.
Note 369,Artificial Intelligence Center, SRI International, Menlo Park,California, 1985.Habermas, J., TIIEORIE DES KOMMUNIKATIVEN flANI)ELNS,Frankfurt-a.M., 1981.Moore, R. C.,"Reasoning About Knowledge and Action", Tech.
Note 191,Artificial Intelligence Center, SRI International, Melno Park,California, 1980.Montague, R.,"The Proper Treatment ofQuantification i Ordinary English",In Thomason, R., (ed.
), FORMAl, PtIILOSOPIIY: SelelctedPapers of Richard Montague, NewHaven: Yale UniversityPress, pp.
247-270, 1974.Perrault, C.R.,"An Application of Default Logic to Speech Act Theory",ReportNo.
CSLI-87-90, CSLI, SRI International, Menlo Park,California, 1987.Searle, J. R.,"A Taxonomy of Illocutionary Acts", in K. Gundm'son (cd.
),LANGUAGE, MIND, AND KNOWLEDGE, MINNESOTASTUDIES IN TIIE PIIILOSOPHY OF SCIENCE, Vol.
7,Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1975.Searle, J. R., and Vanderveken,FOUNDATIONS OF ILLOCUTIONARY LOGIC CambridgeUniversity Press, London, 1985.Von Neumann, J. and Morgenstern, O.,THE THEORY OF GAMES AND ECONOMIC BEHAVIOR ,Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ, 1947.Wernor, E.,"Toward a Theory of Communication and Cooperation forMultiagent Planning", TttEORETICAL ASPECTS OFREASONING ABOUT KNOWLEDGE: Proceedings of theSecond Conl'erence, Morgan Kaufman Publishers, 1988a.Werner, E.,"Socializing Robots: A Theory of Communication andCooperation for Distributed Artificial Intelligence", to bepresented at 1988 Distributed Artificial Intelligence Workshop,Lake Arrowhead, California, 19988b.Werner, E.,"Intention, Information and Ability: Outline of a UnifiedTheory", unpublished manuscript, 1988c.7z~9
