THE PARALLEL  EXE~ERT PARSER (PEP):A THOROUGHLY %~IVISED DESCENDAN'~ OFTHE WORD EXPERT PARSEI% (WEP)M. DEVOSKatho l ieke  Univers i te i t  LeuvenCampus Gasthu isbergNeurophys io logy  LabHerestraat  49B-3000 Leuven, Be lg iumG.
ADRXAENSSiemens NLP Research& Katho l ieke Univers i te i t  LeuvenM.
Theres iast raat  21B-3000 Leuven, Be lg ium(s iegeert@kules.uucp ors iegeert@blekul60.b i tnet)Y.D.
WILLEMSKathol ieke Univers i te i t  LeuvenDepartment  of Computer  ScienceCe lest i jnen laan 200AB-3030 Heverlee, Be lg ium(ydw@kulcs.uucp)~H>st z'actin this paper  we present PEP (the Para l le lExpert  Parser~ Devos 198'7), a radical lyrev ised descendant  of WEP (the Word ExpertParser, Small  1980) .
WEP's idea ofl ingu is t ic  ent i t ies as interact ing processeshas been retained, but its adherence to theword as the only ent i ty has been rejected.Experts  exist at d i f ferent levels,communicate through r ig id ly def ined protocolsand are now ful ly des igned to run inparal lel .
A prototype of PEP is implementedin Flat Concurrent  Pro log ar{d runs in a Logixenvironment.of in format ion is more complex tl~an a node ina connect ion ls t  model (it may be a rule, forinstance)~ but in which one attempts to keepthe parallel, computat ion involv ing the itemsof in format ion mere under  control  than can bedone in a connect ionist .model .
(For examplesof coarse-gra in  para l le l  NLU, see Hirakawa1983 or Matsumoto  3.987).The research we present  here is of thelatter  type of para l le l  NI.U.
A potent ia l lypara l le l  NLU system (the Word Expert  Parser,Small  1980) has been drast ica l ly  rev ised soas to a l low a tru ly para l le l  implementat ion(viz.
in F lat  ConCurrent  Prolog, us ing theLogix env i ronment  (Si lverman et al 1986));we call the resul t ing system the Paral le lExpert  Parser  (PEP, Devos 1987).Io In t roduct ionWork on para l le l  natural  languageunders tand ing  (NLU) is only start ing toemerge.
(This even holds for work on any k indof para l le l  AI (see e.g.
Kowal ik  1988)).
Ingeneral,  there seem to be two kinds ofapproaches  to para l le l  NLU.
On the one hand,there is what we call fine-grainparallelism; on the other hand, there iscoarse-grain parallelism.
Withfine-grain parallel NLU we refer bas ica l lyto the connect ion is t  approach and itsdecendants.
Connect ion is t  models  featurehuge networks  of small  nodes of information;computat ion is represented by f luctuat ions ofthe act ivat ion  levels of nodes and by(parallel) t ransmiss ion  of exc i tat ion andinh ib i t ion a long connections.
(Forconnect ion ism in general, see Feldman &Ba l la rd  1982, VanLehn 1984, Hi l l is  1986,McC le l land  & Rumelhart  1986; forconnect ion is t  models  of NLU, see Cottre l l  &Small  1983, Cottre l l  1985, Po l lack & Waltz1985, McC le l land  & ~melhar t  1986) o Withcoarse-grain parallel NL~ we refer to amore modest  kind, in which the smal lest i tem2.
The WoEd Expmrt  Parser  (WEP)b~ie f ly  descr ibedThe Word  Expert  Parser  (WEP, Small1980) i s  a natural  language understand ingprogram in the AI t rad i t ion  of semanticpars ing  (see also Hirst 1983v Hahn 1986,Cottre l l  1985, Adr iaens 1986a/b forWEP- insp i red  or - re lated work).
Theorgan izat ion  of the model  di f fers stronglyfrom that of a "c lassical"  NLU system.Rather  than hav ing a number of components ofrules that are app l ied  (serially) tol inguist ic  input by a general  process, WEPcons iders  the words themselves as act iveagents (word experts) that interact  with eachother  and with other  knowledge sources ino rder  to f ind the meaning of a fraQT~ent oftext.
Words are implemented as coroutines~i.e.
processes  that run for a whi le(broadcast ing in format ion or per fo rmings ide-ef fect  operat ions to ref ine therepresentat ion  of the mean ing  of a textfra~nent),  and suspend when they have to waitfor in format ion from other experts.
Thein format ion they send or wait  for a re  e i thers ignals  re lat ing to the status of the pars ing147process  (broadcast on a ded icated signalchannel) or concepts .that represent themean ing  of parts  of the l inguist ic  input(broadcast on a ded icated concept channel).The experts  coord inate the understand ingprocess  in turn, eventua l ly  converg ingtowards a conceptual  structure thatrepresents  the mean ing  of a text fragment,30 Fz'Om ~ to PEPIn general,  the idea of interact ingprocesses  is a very at t ract ive one if onewants a f lexible parser  capable of us ing anytype of  in format ion at any moment it needsit.
Th is  basic  pr inc ip le  of WEP has beenreta ined \[or PEP.
Yet, a l though the des ignof the sy:3tem seemed to lend itself  eas i ly  toa para l le l  implementat ion,  l inguist ic  andcomputat iona l  f laws in the model  have madedrast ic  revis ions necessary before this couldactua l ly  \])e done.3.1 True \]~arallelismAl though WEP c la imed to be "potent ia l lyparal le l" ,  it heavi ly  (and implicit ly) re l iedon sequent ia l i ty  to make its pr inc ip les  work.Espec ia l ly  for the restart ing of suspendedexperts, a last- in f i rst -out regime (stack)took care of content ion for messages: theexpert that p laced an expectat ion for amessage 16.st~ most ly  got it first.
Also, toavoid com~l icat ions  in expert communicat ion,no new e~perts  were in i t ia l i zed  before thequeue of leady-to-run experts  was empty.
Theadherence to this sequent ia l izat ion,  not toment ion  the s ide-ef fects  involved, obv ious lymade WEP's c la im of be ing "potent ia l lyparal le l"  invalid.Ir~ a t ru ly  para l le l  environment,sequent ia l i ty  can no longer be re l ied on.PEP uses \[parallelism whenever  possible:  forthe execut ion of expert code AND forin i t ia l i z ing new experts  ( init ia l iz ing all ofthem as soon as they are read andmorpho log ica l ly  analyzed).
In order  toreal ize this, the most  important departurefrom the or ig inal  model  is that experts areno longer  on ly  assoc iated with words (theonly l inguist ic  ent i t ies acknowledged byWEP) ?
We wi l l  now discuss what experts  areassoc ia ted  with, and how the new v iew ofexperts  leads to c learer  and more expl ic i tconcepts o~ wa i t ing  and communicat ing  in apara l le l  environment.3.2 Wo~d-o:~pQztJ vozsus concopt -e~8on d i f ferent  levelsA major  i tem of cr i t ic ism ut tered againstWEP has been that it considers  the word  asthe only ent i ty  to be turned into an expertprocess.
L ingu is t ica l ly  speaking, theex is tence of larger  const i tuents  isunden iab le  and must  be taken into account,whatever  \]aodel one advocates.
From thecomputat iona l  viewpoint,  squeezing allinteract ions into words makes it almostimposs ib le  to f igure out what is going on inthe overal l  pars ing  process.
Words have todecide on everything, f rom morpholog ica lissues to pra~nat ic  issues, with jammedcommunicat ion  channels as a result.In PEP, experts are assoc iated withconcepts  rather than with words, it is verynatural  to do so: words are only used toevoke the concepts  that conshitute themean ing  of a fra~lent of text.
St:i.l i ~concepts have a concrete l ink to words andcan be regarded as being assoc iated with hhegroup of words that evokes them.
E.g.
in"the young girl" three concepts can bediscovered, assoc iated with the b~sicword-groups "the", "young" and "girl ~'.
At: ah igher  level a compound concept const i tut ingthe meaning of the entire construc~ "theyoung glr l"  is invoked.Concretely,  in PEP a specif ic datastructure (the expert ~rame) is associ~tedwith every expert.
The hierarchy thator ig inates  from the concepts is ref lected bythe interconnect ion of the expert fraracs.These are ver t ica l ly  re lated by \].eve\].interdependencies,  and hor izonta\ ] ly  by there lat ive role the concepts of the frames playin the frame that is be ing bui lt  out of themone level higher.
Besides its level~ a~expert  frame has three attr ibute slots: afunct ion attr ibute (stating what the role isthe expert concept plays at a spec.i.fJclevel), a concept attr ibute (representingthe contents of the expert) and a lexicalattr ibute (simply correspondin~ to the gr<~u~>of words assoc iated with Lhe conc<~pt) .Below, we wil l  see that this def in i t ion of e:~expert frame is crucial  for the rest~:/<:!t~:!<lcormmunication protocol  among experts.The "analysis  process" consists of theco l lect ion of current ly  act ive experts tha\[+try to establ ish new concepts.
~f a ne~concept can successfu l ly  be formed, thecorresponding expert is added to the analysisprocess, whi le the combined concepl r s expe~t~may die.
They pass their  expert frames~ a~0so the conta ined information, to the newexpert, which wil l  usual ly  incorporate themin its own expert frame.
Not ice that hh~v iew has interest ing software engineer ingaspects not present  in WEP: by having aleve led approach expert  code becomes morelocal, modular  and adaptable.
The dynamicprocess h ierarchy enables the l inguist /expertwr i ter  to wr i te  gener ic  experts that can beparameter i zed  with the value of the conceptthey represent (cp.
ob ject -or ientedprogramming).A f inal note about the levels.
Each levelis in tended to deal with a more or le~;sindependent  part in the der ivat ion andcompos i t ion  of  meaning.
However, we leave i\[:up to the l inguist  wr i t ing the expe~-Lprocesses  to declare (i) what levels he wantsto cons ider  and (2) what the appropr iatefunct ions are that -he  wants to use at therespect ive  levels.
By combining thisf lex ib le f i l l ing in of a r igorously  def inedmodel, we force the l inguist  to c lear lyspeci fy  the experts  and help him to keep theexperts  re lat ive ly  small (hence, morereadable) and to f igure out more easi ly  whereth ings cou ld  go wrong in the pars ing process.A poss ib le  h ierarchy  of levels might  be:morpheme, word, constituent,  clause, sentence(each level hav ing  its own funct ionattr ibutes) .
In  the somewhat overs impl i f iedexample be low we wi l l  be using three levels(between brackets:  the respect ive funct ionattr ibutes) ,  viz.
word  level\ [ar t ic le ;ad ject ive;substant ive\ ] ,const i tuent_ leve l  \ [act ion;agent;object\] ,  andsentence level.3.3 Broadcasting vs.explicit communicationExperts  are the act ive components of theanalys is  system.
New concepts come intoex is tence only through their  interact ion.Since para l le l i sm was a major  goal we havebased our communicat ion  protocols  on expl ic i tident i f i ca t ion  of the expert  frames invo lvedin some interact ion, which al lows us to keepcommunicat ion  under control.
Two kinds ofcommunicat ion  take place:(I) attribute-refining:Experts  are a l lowed to ref ine theat t r ibutes  of ~xpert  frames.
The attr ibutesare cons idered to be informat ion that isaccess ib le  by all experts.
(2) attribute-probing:Basing themselves  on the attr ibutes ofthe probed expert  frames, experts  decidewhich way to go in the analysis  process.
Al lat t r ibute prob ing  is in ~ the choose_al tcommand, that is descr ibed next.3.4 Suspending/resuming:explicit machinery vs.declarative readingLet us now turn our attent ion to thecommand that al lows?
experts to decide whichway to go in thei r  analys is  process  on thebasis  of in format ion they expect from otherexperts.
We have in fact loca l ized al lposs ib le  cho ice-po ints  in one command:choose_a l t ( \ [alt(frame(frame-specification,attrlbuteconditlon),invoke(expert)),alt(frame(frame-specification,attribute condition),invoke(expert)),alse(invoke(e~q~azt))\]).It consists  of a number of a l ternat ives andan opt ional  elsative.
The a l ternat ivesconta in  a test, which may fail, suspend orsucceed.
In the last case the cor respondingexpert  may be invoked.
If tests from several14&al ternat ives  succeed, an arb i t rarycor respond ing  expert  is invoked, whereas theothers are not further cons idered (don't-carecommit ted  choice; see also below and Devos1987, however, for a suggest ion of how toreal ize non-determin ism in v iew of poss ib leambiguity) .
Only after  fai lure of alltests  is the e lsat ive-expert  executed.Tests consist  of a frame- spec i f icat ion andan att r ibute-condl t ion.
The latterconst i tutes  the actual  test on the attr ibuteof the frame se lected by" f rame-spec i f icat ion" .
This frame can bereferred to with tes t f rame in thecor responding invoked expert.
One wi l la l ready have not iced tha~ the choose altpred icate  does not conta in any expl~citschedul ing commands.
Indeed, we intend toent i re ly  mask the program flow by adec larat ive reading.
However, f low controlremains necessary and St is rea l ized bysuspending a n expert  rou?ine (or a branch inthe choose alt command, since thea l ternat ives  in the choese_alt  may beexecuted in paral le l ) ,  if it requiresin format ion that is not yet avai lable.
Onlyaf ter  this required informat ion is f i l led in,does the expert - rout ine  resume.
This cancheaply be implemented using read-onlyun i f i cat ion  (Shapiro 1986).
Intuit ively,pred icates  that probe for in format ionsuspend, if the var iab le  that suppl ies thisin format ion is not yet instant iated.
Thissuspens ion takes place dur ing un i f icat ion  ofthe Flat Concurrent  Pro log (FCP) pred icate(see below), into which expert  rout ines arecompiled.
Resumpt ion occurs whenever  therequi red var iab le  gets instantiated.Suspens ion of a choose_alt  branch may takep lace in the fo l lowing cases:(i) If the search for the test f rame requiresin format ion that is not yet avai lable, its imply suspends.
As a result thef rame-spec i f i cat ion  always leads to these lect ion of a frame in a determin ist ic  way.Hence, expl ic i t  communicat ion becomespossible.
(2) The at t r ibute- test  suspends unti l  thein format ion to be tested is avai lable.There is one other  command that may causesuspens ion of an expert, viz.
begin_ leve l(a_level).
The execut ion of an expert thatspeci f ies begin_ leve l (a_ leve l ) ,  is onlyresumed after  all at t r ibutes of incorporatedexpert frames are specif ied.
This f i l l ing inof at t r ibutes  takes place between di f ferentexpert frames on the same level ( intra- levelcommunicat ion) .
With r ig id rules as to whichexpert  f i l ls  in which frame, it is poss ib leto prove that the expert  code is deadlockfree, We wi l l  further refer to these rulesas the d~adlook avo idance rules.
It suf f icese.g.
to prove that every frame that is at thelowest level that st i l l  contains unf i l ledframes, wi l l  eventual ly  be f i l led in .
Itmust  then not be d i f f icu l t  to construct  adeadlock analyser,  that checks whether  thedeadlock  avoidance rules are violated.
Thishas not yet been further elaborated.However,, to  ensure f lex ib i l i ty  (especial lyf rom l ingu is t ic  considerat ions) we are forcedto a l low inter - level  communicat ion,  e.g.
insentences as "the l i t t le gir l  loved her toy",where "her" is level equivalent  to "l ittle",but anaphor ica l ly  refers to "the l i t t legirl", which wi l l  p robably  be at a h igher(hence, dif ferent) level than "her" .v Inthis  case deadlock  free code is not easy toguarant~e, because of the poss ib i l i ty  ofc i rcu lar  wa i t ing  of experts  for one another.It is o\[~r hope that we can also incorporateres t r?cted  and we l l - spec i f ied  use of thisin ter - leve l  communicat ion  in the deadlockavo idancy rules.The system as yet designed, implements adon ' t -care  commit ted-cho ice  between thea l ternat ives  of a choose alt predicate.
Thismeans that an arb i t rary  a l ternat ive thatsucceeds, wi l l  be chosen to determine theexpert 's  behaviour.
We are wel l  aware ofthe fact that don ' t -care  commit ted-cho ice  isnot a lways what one wants in AI appl icat ions.We mere ly  chose this  (easy) opt ion here inorder  not to burden the des ign andimplementat ion  wi th  one more problem.
We wil lJust ment ion  two a l ternat ives we intend toexplore  in the future.The f irst is intermediate  betweendon ' t -care  commit ted-cho ice  and fullnon-determinism.
To each a l ternat ive in thechoose_al t  command a Pr ior i ty  is assigned.The a l ternat ives  are then t r ied  Out bydescend ing  pr ior ity,  a l lowing the more l ikelyones to succeed first.
(These pr ior i t ies  wi l lof ten ref lect  f requency of occurrence ofspeci f ic  l inguist ic  structures.)
Apr io r i t i z ing  approach l ike this one wi l lhowever  require more synchron isat ion  amongthe alte:rnatives of the choose alt to ensurea unique semant ics  of the command.The second is full non-determinism.
NOpr ior i t ies  are ass igned to alternat ives,  andthe system is capable of undoing a wrongchoice dur ing  the analys is  process.
It cango back to a choice point  and try out anothera l ternat ive  whose test succeeds.
A(costly) implementat ion  of this st rategyshould be based on Concurrent  Pro log code(Shapiro 1986) that contains a copy of  theglobal  env i ronment  for each a l ternat ive  inthe choose alt  command.
This ConcurrentPro log  code wou ld  then have to be f la t tenedto FCP (Codish & Shapiro 1985).3.5 An ExampleBelow we present  the code of  some sampleexperts  that a l low the analys is  of thesentence "the l i t t le  gir l  eats the apple".The example is s impl i f ied, but i l lustrateswel l  the crucia l  e lements  of PEp.
F i rst  theappropr iate  levels and funct ions aredeclared.
Then fo l lows  th~ code of theactual  experts.
Remember  that expf ramerefers to the f rame that is assoc iated withthe expezt and tes t f rame refers to the framethat was referred to in the a l ternat ive  ofthe preced ing  choose_air  command.
"begin frame" sets the appropr iate  level  and"ref ine funct ion" and "ref ine_concept"  do thef i l l ing in of the attr ibutes of the spec i f iedframe.
The lexical  attr ibute isautomat ica l ly  f i l led in when beg inn ing theframe.
The example restr icts i tsel f  tochoose_al t  commands that only requireint ra- leve l  communicat ion.
When the sentenceis read, the corresponding experts arein i t ia l i zed  and start to run in paral lel .The rest of the code is sel f -explanatory.declare(level\[word level(functlon\[article,adJectlve, substantive\]),constltuentlevel(?unctlon\[action,agent,obJect\]),sentence_level(function\[\])\]).the :-begin frame(word level),refine_fuzkction (expframe, 'article'),reflneconcept (expframe, kled("defining")),refine_concept (expframe, value("defined")).little :-begin frame(word_level),refine_funetion(expframe, 'adjective'),reflne_concept(expframe, kind("adjectival")),reflne_concept(expframe, value("young, small")).girl :-beglnframe(wordlevel),refine funotion(expframe, 'sestantive'),refine_concept(expframe, kind("person"\]),refine concept(expframe, valee("female, child or maiden")),choose alt((alt(frame(minus(1),function(equal(,article,))),invoke(articlelncorporation\]),alt(frame(minus(1),functlon\[equal('adjeetive,))invoke(adjective_incorporation)),else(invoke(so_incorporatlon))\]\].apple :- a0aloqoos to the code for girl.adJective lncorporation :-incorporate(testframe),choose_alt(\[alt(frame(minus(1),function(equal('article,))),Invoke(artlcleincorporation)),else(i~Ivoke(noincorporation)) \]).articleincorporatlon :-incorporate(testframe),begin_frame(constltuentlevel\[,reflneconcept(expframe, kind("unused")),refine coecept(expframe, value("unused")).no_incorporation :-begin frame(constituent level\[,refine concept(expframe, klnd("unused"\]refine_concept(expfra~e, value("unused"eats :- begin_frame(constituent level),refine_funetion(expframe, 'action'),reflneconcept(expframe, klnd("ingest")),refine concept(expframe, value("ingest_food"\]\[,choose_alt(\[alt(frame(plus(3),concept(view('eatable'))),invoke(eateomething)),else( ..................... )) \]).145eatsomething :~refine_function(testframe, 'object'),incorporate(testframe),choose alt(\[alt(frame(minus(1),concept(view('person'))),invoke(someoneeatssomething)),else( .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.  ))
\]).someoneeatssomething :-refine function(testframe, "agent'),incorporate(testframe),begin frame(sentence_level),show soluhion.4.
A Para l le l  Imp lementat ionIn the last sect ion of this paper  wewil l  have a c loser look at how all theaspects  of PEP d iscussed so far have beenimplemented in a logic programming language.For  our implementat ion  we have used Logix, aFlat Concurrent  Pro log environment (Si lvermanet al 1986).4.1 Genera l  Mode l  Organ izat ionThe prototype rea l izat ion of OUr modela l lowing for correct analys is  of very s implesentences (such as "The man eats", "A maneats", "Man eats") consists  of an expertlanguage (EL) to be used by the l inguist  whenwr i t ing  his experts, a precompi ler  thatt rans forms the experts  to FCP code and the.... Logix FCP compi ler /emulator ,  our programmingenvironment.
The l inguist  is of fered the EL,which only conta ins  pred icates  at a highlevel of abstrac?ion.
He may further tunethe expert  levels we d iscussed ear l ier  andthe funct ion at t r ibutes  he w i l l  be using ateach level to his own needs.
He is onlya l lowed to use the EL pred icates  accord ing tohis own spec i f icat ion of levels and funct ionattr ibutes.
The EL is then precompi led  toFCP.
The main  reason for the approach ofp recompi l ing  is that we have to usef lat ten ing techn iques  on the predicates.These techniques are the domain of computersc ient is ts  and we do not want to bother  thel inguist  wi th  them.
(Precompil ing alsooffers important  addi t ional  advantages suchas syntax checking, checking of potent ia ldeadlock, etc.
; these features are sti l lunder  development) .4.2 Data -s t ructures :  f rame in terconnect ionand  b lackboard  in format ionThe lex ica l -morpho log ica l  ana lyzerschedules and invokes the expertscor responding to the e lementary  lexical  unitsand outputs a blackboard,  i.e.
a matr ix  withslots whose columns cor respond to those unitsand whose rows cor respond to a level.
Eachexpert  has one expert  frame assoc iated withit; this expert  frame fi l ls one slot of theblackboard.
In the beg inn ing of the analys isprocess  al l  f rames and the b lackboard  conta inun ins tant ia ted  slots.
Experts  gradual ly146instant iate  the slots.
Referr ing to anotherexpert 's  expert  frame requires walk ing to itover the blackboard,  The walk is def ined ina unique way.
Al l  s lots on the path shouldbe instant iated,  otherwise the walk  suspendsand waits  for the instant iat ion.
This ise legant ly  impiemented us ing the read-onlyun i f i cat ion  of the para l le l  Pro log versions.Slots that wi l l  never be of any use any more,are ins tant ia ted  to dummy constants  in ordernot to indef in i te ly  b lock  suspended walks.5.
Conc lus ions  and  fur thez  res~aEchIn this  paper  we have presented  a furtherdeve lopment  of the procedura l  v iew of naturallanguage analys is  (NLU) as proposed bySmal l 's  Word Expert  Parser.
The Para l le lExpert  Parser  tr ies to present  a t ru lyd is t r ibuted  and para l le l  model  of NLU wi thc lear ly  de f ined  experts on d i f ferent  levels,h ie rarch ica l ly  conce ived expert  frames andr ig id ly  rest r ic ted  communicat ion protocols.Bes ides po l i sh ing  the implementat ion andwr i t ing / tes t ing  more complex experts, we alsointend to look further into the necessarymodel  of knowledge (concept) representat ionthat has to con~lete  our f ramework and how itcan be tuned to PEP's needs.
We hope that ourattempt at rea l iz ing para l le l i sm in thedomain of NLU wi l l  enhance our overal lunders tand ing  of the fasc inat ing but  as yetst i l l  poor ly  unders tood domain of para l le lcomputing.REFERENCESADRIAENS,  G. (1986a) - Word ExpertPars ing Rev ised  and App l ied  to Dutch.
InProceedings  of the 7th ECAI (Brighton, UK),Vo lume I, 222-235.ADRIAENS,  G. (1986b) - ProcessL inguist ics:  The Theory and Pract ice  of aCogn i t ive -Sc ient i f i c  Approach to Natura lLanguage Understanding.
Phd.
thesis, Depts ofL inguist ics  and Computer  Science, Un ivers i tyof Leuven, Belgium.CODISH,  M. & SHAPIRO,  E. (1986) -ComPi l ing  OR-para l le l i sm intoAND-para l le l i sm.
Technica l  Report  CS85-18,Department  of App l ied  Mathematics.
TheWeizmann Inst i tute of Science, Israel.COTTRELL ,  G.W.
(1985) - AConnect ion is t  Approach to Word  SenseDisambiguat ion.
Un ivers i ty  of RochesterComputer  Science Phd (TR-154) .
Rochester,New York.COTTRELL ,  G.W.
& S.L.
SMALL  (1983) -A Connect ion is t  Scheme for Mode l l ing  WordSense Disambiguat ion.
In "Cognit ion andBra in  Theory"  6 (i), 89-120.DL~rO8, M. (1987) - The Para l le l  Exper tParser.
Rea l i za t ion  of a Para l le l  andDis t r ibuted  System for  Natura l  LanguageAna lys is  In Logic Programming Languages .Engineer 's  Thesis, Department  of ComputerScience, Un ivers i ty  of Leuven, Be lg ian (inDutch).- Connect ionist  Models and Their  Properties.In Cogni t ive Science" 6, 205-254.HAHN,  U.
(1986} - A General ized WordExpert  Model  of Lexica l ly  Distr i -  buted TextParsing.
In  Proceedings of the 7th ECAI(Brighton, UK), Vo lume I, 203-211.HILL:?S, D. (1986) - The Connect ionMachine.
MIT Press, Cambridge Mass.HZRR~/&WA, H.  (1983)  - Chart Pars ing' inConcurrent  Prolog.
Technical  Report of theICOT Research Center (TR-008).
Inst i tute forNew Generat ion Computer  Technology, Tokyo.HXRSTe G. (1983)  ~ A Foundat ion forSemantic Interpretation.
In Proceedings ofthe 21st ACL (Cambridge, Mass), 64-73.KOWAL~X, J.S.
(ed) (1988) - Paral le lComputat ion and Computers for Art i f ic ia lIntel l igence.
Kluwer, Dordrecht TheNether lands.MATSO~K)TO,  Y .
(1987)  - A Paral le lPars ing System for Natural  Language Analysis.In "New Generat ion  Computing" 5 (1987),63-78.McCLK LLAND,  J.
& R~LHART D. E.(1986) - Paral le l  D ist r ibuted Processing.MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass.POLLACK,  J.
& D. WALTZ (1985) -Mass ive ly  Paral le l  Parsing: A StronglyInteract ive Model of Natural  LanguageInterpretat ion.
InCognit ive Science" 9, 51-74.SXL~ItMAN, W. et al (1986) - TheLogix System User Manual  - Vers ion 1.21.Technical  Report CS-21  , Department ofComputer  Science.
The Weizmann Inst itute ofScience, )~ehovot 76100, Israel.SHAPIRO, E. (1986) - Concurrent Prolog:A Progress Report.
Fundamentals  ofArt i f ic ia l  Intel l igence, W. Bibel & Ph.Jorrand.
Lecture Notes in Computer  Science,Springer--Verlag, Berlin.SMALL~ S.L .
(1980)  - Word ExpertParsing: a Theory of Distr ibuted Word-BasedNatural  Language Unders tand ing .
ComputerSc ienceTechn ica l  Report  Series.
Univers i tyof Mary land Phd.VANLE~,  K.
.
(1984) - A Cr i t ique of theConnect ionlst  Hypothesis  that Recognit ionUses Templates, and not Rules.
InProceedings of the 6th Annual  Conference ofthe Cognlt ive Science Society (Boulder,Colorado)~ 74-80.147
