A Novel Analysis ofTemporal Frame-AdverbialsMagnus MERKELDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceLink6ping UniversityS-581 83 LINKOPINGSWEDENTelephone: +46 13282423Internet: MME@IDA.LIU.SEAbst rac tIn this paper interpretation principles for simple and complexframe-adverbial expressions are presented.
Central to theseprinciples is a distinction between phases  and per iods  togetherwith the tempora l  h ierarchy,  where multiple scales of time andrelations can be expressed.
A system, CLOCKWISE, has beenimplemented which interprets Swedish temporal expressionsaccording to the principles outlined in the paper.In t roduct ionTemporal information is expressed and conveyed in a number ofways in natural anguage including tense, aspect and lexicalitems that carry temporal information, eg.
temporal adverbs.Most researchers in this field approach temporal entities inlanguage from the perspective of tense and aspect.
But there isvery little in the literature on other expressions that hold tem-poral information, such as temporal adverbs, certain preposi-tional phrases and noun phrases.
In most papers the meaningof a temporal adverbial such as 'next year' is merely explainedas the predicate 'next year' which specifies a point or interval oftime from a reference time.
In objective time-modelling sys-tems such as/Kahn & Gorry 1977/and/Bruce 1973/ temporalexpressions were never analyzed in their linguistic form; in-stead they had to be typed in as stereotyped lists.
The internalstructure of temporal expressions must be investigated in orderto construct grammars that can capture general features and beof use in computational pplications.
In the paper I will focus ontemporal frame-adverbial phrases, that is, expressions thatrefer to a temporal period in which events are located (Cf/Bennet& Partee 1978/,/Hinrichs 1986/).
I will not discuss thecomplex question of how tense, aspect and temporal adverbialsinteract (for an outline of the problems ee/Ejerhed 1987D.TemPoral frame.adverbial phrasesA large group of temporal expressions can be classified asframe-adverbial phrases.
/Smith 1981/ categorizes temporalframe-adverbial phrases in the following way1:Deictic Clock-Calendar 2 Dependent- last week, yesterday - at midnight= now, this moment+ next week, tomorrow + at midnight- previously, before= the same time+ later, afterwards1 My use of + and - is the same as Smith's forward and backwardarrows.2 In an earlier paper (Smith 1980) Smith calls this class flexibleanchoring adverbials.This classification is based on the concept of anchoring, ie.
adeictic is generally anchored to the time of speech (ST), a de-pendent is anchored to another given time in the context, and aclock calendar adverbial can anchor to either ST or to someother context-dependent time.
Smith attributes a relationalvalue to these expressions, -, = and +.
These symbols stand inturn for the relational value anter io r i ty  (past), s imul tane i ty(present) and poster io r i ty  (future).Frame-adverbials can syntactically occur as adverbs, nounphrases and prepositional phrases.
They can be complex ex-pressions uch as(1) On Monday next week at 6 pro.where temporal information is specified on several evels andwe have a combination of deictic and clock calendar expresosions, Complex expressions have a relatively loose syntax inthat the time denoted in (1) can be expressed as (2) and (3)(2) Next week on Monday at 6 pm.
(3) At 6 pm next week on Monday.The issues that need considering are the following: How is thesemantic well-formedness of frame-adverbial phrases deter-mined and, if possible, what is needed to establish their tem-poral reference in terms of locations on the time axis.Periods and phasesTo account for the semantic well-formedness of flame-adver-bial phrases the 'time' denoted by the phrase can be thought ofas an ordered set of specifications for conventional temporalconcepts, such as YEAR, MONTH, DAY, HOUR, MINUTE,SECOND.
The ordering of these temporal concepts may seemto fit well into a 'Chinese box metaphor' where each concept is ~included in a concept on a higher level and in turn includes aconcept on a lower level.
A semantically well-formed temporalframe-adverbial would then be described as a phrase whichforms a description of an unbroken chain of temporal concepts.This is put forward by/Hinriehs 1986/in his Scoreboard  o freference points  and cooccurence  restr ict ion in which the con-struction of a reference time from a flame-adverbial phrase ispossible if there is a chain of specified temporal concepts inaccordance with an ordered set of concepts.
However, if we in-cluded WEEK in the above set of concepts we would get intotrouble.
Weeks are not included in months in the same way asmonths are included in years and a problem of where to fit inWEEK in the Chinese box order would occur.
This is due to thefact that the western calendar system is based on three sepaorate descriptive traditions: the week, the Gregorian calendarand the clock/Levy 1980/.
The Gregorian calendar holds year,month and day(of month) as its basic concepts, the week is asequence of named days, and the clock system divides the dayinto hours and hours into seconds, etc.
The week andGregorian calendar share the concept of day and the clock426system split.~ the day into time segments.
The reason that wecan express a time by specifying different concepts of separatesystems is that the systems hare one or more concepts witheach other, tlt is also reflected in the way we refer to the dayperiod (in S ~vedish and English).
A day can be referred to intwo different ways, either by specifying the day of a certainweek (DW) or by picking out a day of a certain month (DATE).In English the expression on Monday next week will describethe same day on the time axis as an expression describing thesame day by specifying a year, a month and a day of month.
InSwedish it is possible to specify a mfique day by the year-week-day path as the Swedish calendar has numbered weeks,giving us a year divided into 53 weeks 3.In our model we want to distinguish between periods andphases and ~;how the relations between them.A period P is a segment of time with a certain length, such asYEAR, MONTH, DAY, WEEK, HOUR, MINUTE,SECOlqD.A l)eri~?l Pi is a subperiod of a pecind P iff 1" can be seen asconsisting of a number of periods Pi that togeflmr exhaust I'.A phase p is a specific instance of a snbperiod having a eeltainorder ia tire sequence of subperiods cxhaustillg a given periodP.For example, a period such as YEAR can be seen as consist-ing of  twelw+ subperiods (MONTH).
January is the first phaseof those twelve subperiods.The graph below illustrates the relation between year as aperiod and the monthly phases.
'~ .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
YEAR .
.
.
.
.Fig.
1 The YEAR periodThis graph shows the year period from one point of view.
Wecould split the year into other phases, for' instance, into periodsof seasons, where summer, autumn, winter and spring wouldbe the corresponding phases.
Note that a sequence of phasesis cyclically lecurring.Apart fi'c,m differentiating periods and phases we must be ableto show the ,'elations between them, The following table showssome period:; with corresponding phases:YEP,R: CALENDAR {...0...}MONTD.
: YEAR { Janmtry,...Dec ember }WEEK: YEAR { 1, 2, ...53 }DA'~(: MONTH(DATE) { l, 2,..31 }WEEK(I)W) {Monday,...Sunday/HOUR: DAY {0, 1,...23 }MINUTE: HOUR {0, l, ...59}SECONI:): MINUTE { 0,1, ._59 }3 One could say that the system of numberexl weeks is similar tofile, use of named months or named days.
The analogy does notho:Ld Idt the way of course as the week system is historicallyindel~mdent from the Gregoriau calendar, but we have 'tried' toforce the week concept onto the concept of year by naming theweeks with numbers.
In Sweden a umubered week always slarlson a Monday.
The first week that holds at least four days of anew year forms week 1.
Tire first of January 1987 was a qhursdayand pint of week 1, whereas the first of January 1988 is a Fridaywhich :esults in the first three days of 1988 being part of week53 19811 This is standardized by Swedish authorities.Fox each period there are one or two possibilities to view it asa subpefiod of a higher-level period.
The difference betweenthe two different ways of referring to a DAY period is shownby the fact that there are two subperiod-of relations, one toMONTH, and one to WEEK.The subperiod-of relations can be displayed in a temporalhierarchy of lhe following kind.YEAR.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.nour~of-dayFig.
2 The temporal hierarchyThe lines connecting temporal periods to each other showsubperiod-.of relations.
The hierarchy shows the two diflerentpaths fi'om YEAR to DAY.
:The periods and phases described above share one propertyand that is that they all have fixed lengths and as a conse-quence clear boundaries.
We can easily locate the point on thetime axis where January becomes February, but we cannotwith accuracy specify the location on the time axis wherespring is succeeded by summer.
So we must distinguish be-- tween bounded and fuzzy periods.
There are other phasal divi--sions one can make.
For example, we could split the week intoweekdays and non-weekdays (week-ends?
), and tim year :intofeasts, such as Christmas and Easter, and non-feasts, etc.
It isjust a matter of fact that we divide time into different emporalscales, and some contain periods of fixed length and some donot.
This is why it is problematic to try and map a phase of nofixed length, such as summer, onto another temporal scalewhere we are dealing with fixed boundaries ueb as the onedepicted in the temporal hierarchy above.Durative expressions are mostly expressed in terans of quanti--fied periods: one week, two months, three years, etc.
It is moreseldom that phasal expressions are used in a durative sense.Quantif ied phasal expressions uch as two mornings, sixThursdays, three winters, etc are primarily used to expresshabituality and iteration.
It is however possible to infer dura-tion fl'om these as we know the length of a phase or can infer itfrom its corresponding period.Phasal and deictic expressionsIn accordance with the previous section we can now distinguishbetween phasal and deictic expressions.In our terminology a phasal expression is a temporal expres-sion that primarily describes a phase by using a correspondingword for the phase in question.
A phasal expression may be, asingle word (1988, January, midnight) or be more complex, suchas a prepositional phrase (in 1988, in January, at midnighO.427The difference between Smith's clock calendar adverbials/Smith 1981/ and phasal expressions is that phasal expres-sions are just "providers of phases" and they are not primarilyanchored to any other time as clock calendar adverbials are.Phasal expressions may describe absolute times if they refer toa unique phase on the time axis.
So if the phasal expression1987 denotes a unique phase of the calendar then it is possibleto map it into an absolute time.
Following/Hinrichs 1986/wecall these phasal expressions complete or independent dates.Also included in this class we find complex phasal expressionswhich, if mapped on to the temporal hierarchy, would form achain of temporal information.
By chain of temporal informationwe mean a chain of temporal phases according to the temporalhierarchy.Deictic expressions function basically in the following way:Starting from a reference time (eg.
ST) a deictic will establish anew reference time with a different phasal value for the rele-vant period by moving a number of steps in either a forward (+)or a backward (-) direction depending on the deictic, andkeeping phasal values for higher-level periods consistent withthis change.Certain deictics do not change the reference time.
For example.i dr (this year), den h?ir veckan (this week), i dag (today), etc,do not move the reference time in a forward or backward irec-tion.
The new RT will be a partial copy of the old RT; today willdescribe a time equal to ST and specified to the DAY periodlevel.The deictic expression u (now) is ambiguous in respect of pe-riod level.
In one context nu would map onto the year level andin another context it would refer to the hour level of RT.In our system the function that maps a deictic expression is ofthe form F (x, index, step) where x is either a phase or a pe-riod.
Applying F results in a description of the time in terms ofa set of phases which forms a chain in the temporal hierarchywith x as its most specific phase or period.
Posterior deicticswill have positive numbers as step, anterior will have negativenumbers and simultaneous will have 0.
For example, a deicticsuch as i morgan (tomorrow) will be mapped to a set of corre-sponding phases from the YEAR period down to the DAY pe-riod, leaving more specific phases unspecified.
This means thatwhile constructing a description of a time unnecessary work isavoided as we are dealing with partial descriptions and not thetemporal objects as such.
Compare the following two phrases:(1) tomorrow(2) tomorrow at 3 o'clock.In both expressions tomorrow will contribute with exactly thesame information, ie.
a description of a certain day of a certainmonth in a certain year, etc.Deictics in Swedish can be categorically characterized in thefollowing way:".
Lexical deicties (such as igdr (yesterday), fjol (last year)idag (today).?
Pre/postpositional phrases with a temporal NP where thepre/postposition signals the type of temporal expression.
Forexample, am tvd veckor (in two weeks), f~r fem dr sedan (fiveyears ago).- Noun phrases with a temporal phase or period word as headand a modifier or ordinal that signals a deictic function, such as(n?ista vecka (next week), f~rra dret (last year), etc.In many contexts prepositions are omitted in Swedish deicticexpressions if the remaining NP signals a deictic function on itsown.428Note also that a phasal expression such as in October may,apart from specifying a phase October, also function deictically,that is, it may provide phasal values for the periods above itsexplicit level.
However, this is regarded as a secondary use ofa phasal expression.Determining the initial reference time (or index) for deicticexpressions i  another important consideration.
Some deicticexpressions are necessarily anchored to ST and others may beanchored to ST but they may also be anchored to anotherreference time depending on context.
In Swedish expressionssuch as igdr (yesterday), i morgan (tomorrow), am 2 dagar (intwo days) and fSrra dret (last year) are examples ofexpressions that must anchor to ST.
Some expressions in-volving ndsta (next) are examples of the second group.
Theexpressions ndista vecka (next week) and nd~sta torsdag (nextThursday) can have either ST or another context-dependenttime as their initial reference time.
Expressions uch as ndistadag (next day.)
and tvd veckor senate (two weeks later) mustnecessarily anchor to a reference time other than ST (see/Merkel 1987/.Next-expressionsExpressions uch as ndsta torsdag (next Thursday), ndistasommar (next summer) and n~ista jul (next Christmas) may beambiguous to certain speakers.
These expressions seem to beambiguous in the sense that they either take you 1 or 2 stepsfrom your reference time.
So ntista torsdag may refer to the firstor second Thursday from the initial reference time.
If wechanged the argument of ndsta in the above examples to wordsdenoting periods instead of phases the corresponding referencetimes would not be ambiguous.
Ntt'sta vecka (next week) andn?ista dag (next day) will be interpreted as having only onetemporal location and not two as the first examples.
How isthis possible?If somebody says ntista torsdag (next Thursday) when the ini-tial reference time is a Thursday, then there is no ambiguity;the step value will be +1 which will pick out the first phase thathas the value torsdag after the initial RT.
However, if ntistatorsdag was uttered on a Sunday, we would have to adjust theinitial RT by either starting at the Thursday preceding the ini-tial RT orat  the Thursday succeeding it, and from the 'new' ini-tial RT move +1 to reach a temporal reference.
The expressionnasta jul (next Christmas) is analogous to nasta torsdag.Instead of saying that next-expressions have two possiblestep values, +1 or +2, we claim that there is only one value,namely +1, but that when the argument is a phasal expression,such as torsdag, the initial RT may be chosen in two ways de-pending on individual strategies.
Some may for example choosethe nearest phase as their new RT.There is a class of expressions that behaves tl~e same way asnext-expressions, for example, expressions involving modifierssuch as fSrra (~ last), nastnasta (the next but one).Interpretation principleBy looking at the properties of the different parts of a complextemporal expression interpretation principles for frame-adver-bial expressions can now be set up.
Making use of the distinc-tion between the deietic and phasal expressions together withthe temporal hierarchy we can outline a Frame-adverbialinterpretation principle which will explain when a frame-adver-bial expression is interpretable:It is possible to interpret a temporal frmne-adverbial phrase au-tanomcusly iff1.
a) \] he phrase consist8 of olin or several phasal expressionsandb) 't'he eombimttion fphasal values wilt constitut~ a chain of1,3mpot-al infonnafi(m according to the icmpmal hierarchy.andc) ')'he top-most phase of the chain specifies a unique phase.or2.
a) 'Yhe phrase con~;ists ofa combhlation ofone or several deietiesand an arbitrtay numbes of phasal expressionsandb) hMex is lmown for each deictic~mt~e) 'the deietics and the phasal expressions each specify consistentphase-of relations.
The phasal values provided will constitnte ach~,in of temlm~al infommtion according to rim tcmlmmIhierarchy.IRt( (d) A ddctic provides tonporal information for the highestlevel of the chain.The abow: principle will permit intc~pretation of expressionssuch asO)(2)1987 i majden 24 maj 1987i mo/gon kl kvart Over' fyrangtsh~ reeks pd torsdag kl.~vart 6vet fyrafor 20 dr sedan idagrid den htir tiden i morgon1987 in MayMay 24th, 1987tomorrow at a quartet' past four~ext week on l"hursday ata quarter past four20 years ago todayat this time tomorrowfSr 39 dr" och fyra t*~m~der s daza 39 years and four ~umths agoom t,M veckor oeh fyra dagar in two weeks and four daysThe following expressions will be ruleA out by the principle:(3) kl kvart i~ver 5 1987 at a q~tarter past Jive 1987pd kvdllen i jnnua~i in the evening in Januacy(4) fOrra dret pd eftermiddagen last year in the afternoonnasta recks k112 next week at nvelve o' clockThe fact that an expression i.,; ruled out by the principle doesnot mean that into'pretation is blocked completely.
The ex-pressions in (3) and (4) are only incomplete in the sense thatsome perk,ds lack a phasal value and it may turn out that con-textual knowledge will provide this.
Inteq~retation is stack ifthe expression yields inconsistent phasal values.
For example,the expression pd mdndagen den 23 november i dr (on MomqayNovembe~ 23rd this year) provides inconsistent phasal valuesfor the I)AY period, ie.
November 23rd i,~ a Wednesday in1988.However, there are some borderline cases that the aboveprinciple would permit such a,q(5) for .39 dr sedan ig&n~'~a reeks n&~ta drfor 2 ar sedan fOr 2 nu~uuler sedan(6) for 39 & sedan i ~u~rgonom s,.x dr fOr 2 mdnader se&m39 ),ears ago yesterdaynext week next yeartwo years ago two months ago39 year's ago tomorrowin six years 2 months ago\[n (5) two deictics with the same direction are combined, either+ +, or .... .
And in (6) there is a combination of deictics withdifferent relational values, that is an anterior is joined with aposterior deictic.
In principle it seems possible to combine de--ictics in this way, although some Swedish speakers do con-.sider the examples in (5) and (6) as being odd.The examples in (5) and (6) are all complex frame-adverllialexpression holding more than one deictic phrase, but the im--portant hing is that the different deictics together specify thesame tinre.
In other words, if we interpret a phrase such as(7)fiOr tvd dr sedan igdr (two years ago yesterday)where the two involved deictics both have ST as obligatory in-dex the first deietic will pick out a description of a referencetime two years before ST and the second will modify that de-scription by adding phases for DAY and MONTH based on thepartial description of a phase one day before ST.
This viewmakes it possible to claim that certain deictics such as igdr(yesterday), i morgon (tomorrow), ete, always have ST astheir index.
/Smith 1978/ has proposed that interpretation ofexpressions such as (7) is done in two steps, that is, that thefirst deictic forms the RT for tile second.
Smith's strategy wouldmean that igdr (yesterday) in (7) cannot have ST as its obli-gatory index; with our strategy this is indeed possible.hnp lementat ionsThe principles outlined for the interpretation of temporal I~'amc-adverbials have been implemented in a system, CLOCKWISE,which interprets frame-adverbial expressions into a temporaldescription in terms of phasal wdues.
Tht: first version ofCI,OCKWISE consists of a parser, based on finite ~';tatc ma-chinery, and a 'temporal expert' that will make use of itsknowledge about temporal phases and periods and infer tem-poral information that is missing explicitly in the expressicms.A temporal representation is constructed in a notepad dm'ingthe parsing process.
The notepad contains information aboutthe periods and phases denoted by the expression and~ if theexpression is deictic, also index, step value and direction.
Thcnotepad is structured according to the temporal hierarchy andwill therefore support the interpreter according to thel,lterpretation principle.
The first version can, however, onlydeal with one type of index, namely speech time.
CI_,OCKWISI-!,1 has been usexl as a module in a natural anguage and graphi--cal interface to a booking system/J6nsson 1987/.The second version of CLOCKWISE is under construction.
Thetemporal representation is built by an LFG-type gimmnar together with a frame-based knowledge representation whmvtemporal periods and phases am treated as semantic objects(of /Ahrenberg 1988/.
The grammm" is written in a way tosyntactically filter out file temporal expressions, ie.
temporalprepositional phrases are functionally distinct front otherpreposit ional  phrases in the functional structures (f-structures).
The result of  a successful interpretation of atemporal frame-adverbial is a directed acyclic graph (DAG)where a set of phasal values forms a description of the timedenoted by the expression.
For example, a frame-adverbialsuch as niista vecka pd fredag kl 12.30 (next week on Friday at12.30) has a functional structure of the following kind:429TEMPIioLEX $WEEK \ ] \ ]RD IN.~STA\] [ASE UNM 31FORM UNM \ ] J\[-PCASE .,A \]E LEX SFREDA~EGEND UTR 3EcAsE~EX {$HOUR12 $MINUTE303Fig.
3 Functional structureThe above DAG is mapped to an intermediate DAG by theFrame system.
The intermediate DAG has separated eicticphrases from phasal ones, and also provided a frame for thedeictic mapping function F.rEaP   icT,c \]/ r \ ] /EVHASAL *"OUR12 2EPHASAL SMINUTE30~Fig.
4 Intermediate structureBy using a more general and powerful framework we are ableto incorporate other types of temporal expressions and developthe above principles in relation to tense and aspect.
Durativeexpressions have recently been incorporated in the system.The development of CLOCKWISE is part of the grammardevelopment project in the LINLIN project at LinkSpingUniversity (/Ahrenberg 1987/).CLOCKWISE is at the moment unable to handle expressionssuch as(1) The first week of JanuaryCLOCKWISE will get stuck on this expression due to the factthat weeks cannot be mapped onto months, whereas the firstday of January would result in a description.
One solutionwould be to force a mapping of weeks onto months (in thesame way as weeks are mapped onto years in the Swedishcalendar) giving us five subperiods of MONTH each of weeklength, with corresponding phases where the first and the fifthweek phase sometimes would be partial.AcknowledgementsThis research has been supported by the NationaV SwedishBoard for Technical Development.I would like to thank Lars Ahrenberg, Ntis Dahlbltck, ArneJtnsson, Mats Wirtn och Ivan Rankin for helpful comments ondrafts of this paper.
I am also indebted to Jim Goodwin who hasprovided me with the knowledge representation tool used inCLOCKWISE 2.ReferencesAhrenberg, L, 1987, Parsing into Discourse ObjectDescriptions, in Proceedings of the Third Conference of theEuropean Chapter of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, Copenhagen.Ahrenberg, L, 1988, Functional Constraints in Knowledge-Based Natural Language Understanding, in Proceedings of the12th International Conference on Computational Linguistics,Budapest.Bennett, M & Partee B, 1978, Toward the Logic of Tense andAspect, Indiana University Linguistic Club, Bloomington.Bruce, B, The processing of time phrases in CHRONOS,Report CBM-TM-29, Department of Computer Science,Rutgers University, New Brunswick.Ejerhed, E, 1987, Event structures in text.. Paper presented atthe Workshop on Text and courses of events, held at theDepartment of Computer & Information Science, LinktpingUniversity, March 12-13, 1987.Hinrichs, E, 1986, Temporal anaphora in discourses of English,in Lingustics and Philosophy 9, pp 63-82.J6nsson, A, 1987, Naturligt sprdk fi~r anviindardialog ochdatabasftrfrdgningar.
Report LiTH-IDA-R-87-25, Departmentof Computer & Information Science, Linktping University.Kahn, K & Gorr~ G A, Mechanizing Temporal Knowledge, inArtificial Intelligence 9 (1977), pp 87-108.Levy, D M, 1980, The architecture of text, Ph.D. dissertation,Stanford University.Merkel, M, 1987, The Interpretation of Swedish TemporalFrame-Adverbial Phrases, in Papers from the TenthScandinavian Conference of Linguistics, Bergen.Smith, C. S. 1978, The syntax and interpretation f temporalexpression i  English.
Linguistics & Philosophy, 2, pp 43-100.Smith, C. S., 1980 Temporal Structures in Discourse, in 77me,Tense and Quantifiers, (ed C Rohrer), Niemeyer, Tubingen, pp.355-374.Smith, C. S, 1981, Semantic and Syntactic Constraints onTemporal Interpretation, in Tedeshi, P J & Zaenen, A (eds),Syntax and Semantics, Volume 14, pp 213-238.430
