" : t  ?
'1 o Ii' - ~ o ?
eedback of Correcting :~librmafion ~u I osteditmgh~ a Machhte Translath~n 8ys{;emFujio NIStI IDA, Shinobu TAKAMATSU,  Tadaaki  TANI  and Tsunehisa DOIDepartment of Electrical Enqineering~Faculty of Engineering~ University of Osaka PrefectureM ozu, Sakai~ Osaka~ 591~ JapanAbstractThis paper presents an attempt o construct a feed-back systenr PECOF which improves a Japauese-English Machine Translation system by feedback ofcorrecting information given by posteditors.
PECOFanalyzes the error-correcting information by using anEnglish-Japmmse Machine Translation system whichworks in the reverse direction to the original MT sys~tern, corot)ares the intermediate xpressions of thecorrected patterns with those of the erroneous parts ofthe originai MT output at every transfer stage andidenLifies the responsible parts of the original Japanese-English M'P system.
Then PECOF corrects theirrelevant parts of tt,e database or adds error correctingpatterns to a document of postediting to ask users forfurther exmninations for corrections.L IntroductionIv_ recent years, studies of machine translation havebecn rapidly developed and tend to be put to practicaluse in various specific fields.
(0 However, it is expectedthat the output sentences from machine translationsystems need post-editing, more or less, over a longyears for practical use as seen in the report on the prae-eical experience of the Systrau Machine Translation sys-tem and the posteditors' experience.
0)-0)As can be easily seen, feedback of correcting informa-tion given by posteditors to the original MT systemundoubtedly will bring a remarkable improvement ofthe translation proficiency to the system itselfi IIow-ever, it does not seem that adequate discussion aboutfeedback of the information for improving of the MTsystem has been done so far.
One of the main reasonswill be that it is difficult to identify the part to becorrected in the MT system only by using brief correct-ins intbrmation.This paper presents an attempt to identify theresponsible parts of a machine translation system in thecase of Japanese to English translation.
The part to becorrected in the MT system is identified by applying anEnglish-Japanese Machine Translation system to thepostedited output in the reverse direction to the orlgi-nal translation.
Tire English-aapauese MT system isassumed here to be capable of mmlyzing andcomprehending the postedited output at least by usingthe fnndamentM and the general linguistic knowledge ofthe ~arget language.
Associated with the assumption,476many of erroneous patterns arise due to lack of infbrm~--tion about specific usages of words rather tha.u h~(:k ofgeneral linguistic information?
Accordingly, such kind ofcorrecting information given by posteditors can beunderstood from the general linguistic information.PEOOF(abbreviation of a PostEditing COrrectinginforrnation Feedback system) analyzes the correctinginformation by using the English-aapaxtese MT ~ystemand tries to perform feedback of it to tim MT systems.In the following sections~ the basic idea and the con..struction of PECOF axe described in some details midcorrecting of typical error patterns is illustrated withsome examples.2.
The principle of systein constructionMToWord StructureTransfer TransferSo~ 8Io ~ Tlol .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
~' T!r?2 "-~ToSr~.. ~/'I'rSir ?
~ Tlrl <- .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Tit2Word StructureTreamfer TransferMTrFig.l Machine translation sy,ztems MTo and MTrLet us assume that the MT system is constructedbased on a trm, sfer system.
As shown in Fig.l, the orl-ginal machine translation system MTo parses a block ofsource language sentences So, constructs the intermedi-ate expression or form SIo,transforms it to the tin-getlanguage intermediate fornr TIol and Tlo2 by word andstructure transfer and finally generates a block of thetat'get sentences To.In order to identify the kind of corrections given in ~ta~rget lax~guage expression, PECOF needs ~z ~imple t',y'a-tactic mid lexical mmlyzer of the target language ~dleast.
If a part of the target sentences i corrected trodyet Tlo2 remains unchanged except ibr some syntacticterm expressions, a syntactic rule corresponding to ~omcspecific word usages of the tat'get language is checked~the inappropriate paact of syntactic rules is identifiedand modified according to the correctioil given by po~.editor~.If the correction spread~ all over the par~ of the oraL.pat sentences or is nmde by entire replacement~ a p~xs..i~g system of the target language is needed.
Further?~nox'e, if t.ome wrong trmisfers axe made over severaltranst~r stages, an MT system which works in thereverse db:ection is much required to identify them.
It iscalled the reverse MT system briefly mid denoted withMTr.In ~imilar to the original MT system, the reverse MTsystem p~rses the corrected target language xpression':Cr, const,:ucts the intermediate form Tit2 and TIrl,~ransfortu,q Tit1 to the intermediate form Sir of thesource lmlguage and generates the source languageexpressiox~ Sr which should be almost the same as theoriginal :~ouree language xpression So.
The order ofword trmmfer and structure transfer in the reverse MTsysteru is reverse to that of the original MT system.The relation between both the MT systems is illustratedin Fig.1.
The ease system, the semantic ategory sys-tem and *;he intermediate form in the reverse MT sys-tem are the same as those of the original MT system.The intermediate form in both the systems consists ofseveral p,firs of a case label attd a term having thesemantic .~nd the syntactic ategory name in option.P~COF analyzes post-edited output by using thereverse ~\[T system and searches for the first transferstage in which the intermediate form of the correctedoutput obtained by the reverse MT system differs fromthat of the original MT system.After identifying the word block to be corrected mid?he kind of correction PECOF tries to correct thecorresponding part of the word dictionary and thetransfer xules.
Various methods from documentation toautomatic orrection can be considered.
From a practi-cM point of view, it will be efficient o give various errorparmesans through the intermediate forms andcorrespo,dingly to provide the correcting procedure ofthe database of the original MT .~y.ql.em, If unknownerror patterns occur, PECOF only classifies the pat-terns to ask the posteditors about the correctingmethod.AKer processing the wrong parts in the currenttransfer ~tage, PECOF updates the intermediate formsof the following stages of the original MT system outputbased on the corrections performed in the currentstage.
When some discrepancies still remain between~:he interlnediate forms of the original output and thoseo| the postedited output , PECOF applies the samecorrecting procedures to the following transfer stagesrepeatedly.The typical error patterns are classified into threeclasses.
They are related to syntactic structure of tar-get language, structure transfer and word transfer.
Insection 4, some types of the error patterns mid thecorresponding correcting procedures arc described.$o System construction and correcting informationfeedbackIn tMs section, the construction and the function ofP~COF as well as those of both the MT systems aredezc:cib?~'d in some details?~0:~.o Ovt:rvlew of the MT sysiemsiFigul'e 2 shows a schematic onstruction of our MTsystems and the database.
The systems belong to akinds of trmlsfcr systems.
(s) The body part of the pro-cessing, MAPTRAN, is divided into parsing, transfermid generation.
Three kinds of dictionaries are imple-mented for word transfer, rewriting rules and structuretransfer.MAPTRANparallel bottom-up arsingword and structure transfertarget sentence generationdatabasea word-transfer dictionarya rewrltlng-rule dictionarya structure transfer dictionarya semantic ategory tableFig.2 Construction of the MT systems and tile datableBoth the MT system from Japanese to English andthat of the reverse direction use the same processingsystem MAPTRAN.
(7) It is constructed on a hierarchi-cal module basis and can be expanded into some com-puter languages such as C and LISP.
(s) It parses theinput sentences in a parallel bottom-up manner.The word transfer dictionary used here is con-structed by combining an original word transfer diction-axy with a source language word dictionary for analysisand a target language word diction~y for generation.The data structure of the dictionary can be semi-automatically transformed to an appropriate formcorrcspondlng to the change of the programminglanguage.3.2.
Designation of correctionIn order to designate the location to be corrected, anumber is attached to each word in the output seretences.
A word and a word sequence ca~l be designatedby a number or by a pair of the first word number uland the last word number n2 like nl-n2.
Replacementof words is designated as follows:replace ~ ~2-~ by " ~t new word sequence " (1)Insertion and deletion can be indicated in a similarmanner.Movement of a word group ranging from the wordnmnber nl  to n2 to the front of the word of the nmnbern3 is designated as follows:move nl-n2 to n3.
(2)For a given correction, it will be not sometimes easyfor PECOF to identify the key item to be corrected inthe dictionary when the original MT system does nothave the sufficient linguistic knowledge and has a lot ofpossible reasons for correction.
In such cases, it will beeffective that PECOF is informed of the key informa-tion of correction by posteditors.However, detailed escriptions are laborious for post-editors and hard for PECOF to comprehend.
One wayto solve this problem is to indicate one or two wordsthat conflict with the words to be corrected in the out-put sentences or phrases.
Besides, it is sometimes desir-able to add some words that stand for the kind ofcorrection.
The designation is given in a form wherethe reason is added to correction in option.
For exam.-pie, the reasoning for (1) is written as follows: where it(nl or nl-n2) conflicts with n3 in terms of ~RI" In theabove the underlined parts are words to be given by aposteditor.
R1 stands for a kind of correction like477TENSE conflict and SEMantic CATegory conflict.Similarly, the posteditor can add a syntactic symbolsuch as a part of speech a technical term a compoundand an idiom to a word group involved in the given newword sequence if necessary.3.3.
Correction by PECOFFigure 3 shows the main functions of PECOF.
(I) Analysis of the corrected partsby using the reverse MT systemPECOF (2) Identification ofthe part to be correctedin the database(3) Correction of the part of databaseor documentation f the corrected patternswhich cannot be completely identifiedFig.3 The main functions of PECOF3.3.1.
InstallationIn order to keep lexical information of the wordsappearing in the source language sentences till the endof correcting, PECOF needs some record type database.The current dictionaries are constructed there by copy-ing the parts of the dictionary in the file and modifica-tion of the dictionary are performed on the database.The reverse MT system needs the fundamentalrewriting rules to be implemented based on the casegrammar to parse and comprehend the target language?
?utput modified by posteditors.
Most of parsing sys-tems based on a case grammar will be available withsome modification.3.3.2.
PerformancesFirst, PECOF makes the reverse MT system toanalyze the postedited output and construct he inter-mediate forms.
When the postedited output involvessome words which are not contained in the word dic-tionary and also in the syntactic information given bythe postcditor, PECOF tries to identify the syntacticinformation and the equivalents ef the unknown wordsby referring to the information of the related words inboth the target and the source language xpressions orby asking the posteditor about them later.After constructing the intermediate form, PECOFcompares it with that of the original MT system.
Ifthere are some differences between them, PECOFmakes the reverse MT system to further transfer theintermediate form in the reverse direction.
If the reverseMT system has sufficient capability of translation, itwill be able to yield almost the same intermediate formas the original MT system at a certain transfer stagethough the same form might be able to be obtained onlyin the given source language sentent ia l  expressions.Furthermore, if the original MT system can parse andnormalize the source language sentences correctly, boththe intermediate forms coincides with each other by theend of the word transfer stage of the reverse MT systemat the latest.If the same intermediate form is obtained, PECOFstops the transfer by the reverse MT system and beginsto backtrack.
Then PECOF tries to remove the differ-ence between the next-stage intermediate form of theoriginal MT system and that of the reverse MT system.478More precisely, PECOF identifies the irrelevant part ofthe intermediate form of the original MT system bycomparing it with that of the corrected results given bythe reverse MT system and corrects the data and theapplied conditions in the database according to theprocedures determined from the difference patterns.If the reasoning of corrections is given in a form ofthe conflicting words and the associated information asmentioned in section 3.2, PECOF examines the data tobe corrected mid the irrelevant applied conditions byreferring to the syntactic and semantic attributes of theconflicting words, and corrects the data and theapplied condition to be more relevant by refining unify-ing or replacing the old conditions.Some databases uch as word dictionaries omitsdetailed items like the applied conditions of a word ifthey are generally held.
These deficit items are impli-citly designated by a general condition table impleomented for each category of words.
In such cases, if aspecific equivalent is designated together with the rea-soning by a posteditor, the applied conditions of theequivalent derived from the reasoning are written in thecorresponding part of the record of the current worddictionary directly or through a pointer.If the correction in postediting lacks detailed infor-mation about wrong translation and confident reasonsnecessary for correcting the database, PECOF arrangesthe related parts of corrections of the corresponding ori-ginal target and source expressions, classifies them bysome attributes of the error patterns and adds them toa document of error patterns.
Then PECOF urges theusers to formulate the correcting procedures of the partof database corresponding to the error patterns.4.
Miscellaneous correction information in posteditlng4.1.
Syntactic structure correctionEvery part of the translated output is required tomeet syntactic patterns of the target language ven bymodifying and complementing the given source languagesentences.
The occurrence of some syntactic errors andtheir corrections in the target language xpressions canbe detected when some parts of the target languageexpressions are corrected though the intermediate formsare the same as those of the corrected expressionsexcept for some syntactic term expressions?4.1ol.
Word expressionsLet us describe the rewriting rules of a noun phraseas follows:RR:ADJP (Rewriting Rule: ADJective Phrases)<NP(nl{v}(PRED:.
,  OBJ:n2,..))>: :=<NPI (n l )><PREP><NP(n2)><NP(nl(PRED:v, KI:.,K2:n2,...))>:: = <NPI (n l )  ><INF(PRED:v,KI:nl,K2.:n2,...)
>12(3)The above expressions are useful for transformationbetween sentences and the intermediate expressions inparsing and generation of sentences,In the rewriting rule expressions, n i ( i - l ,2)  and v area noun term and a verb term respectively, nl{v} meansthat nl is a noun term derived from a verb term.<:NP(t)> and <INF(t )> denote the non-ternfinal sym~bolz of ~z noun phrase and an infinitive phrasecorrespondirq~ to a term expression o1' an intermediateform t. The symbol * denotes the term prefixed to aframe which includes and modifies the symbol *.
In thisease, it stands for nl{v}.
PRED and OB3 denote aPREDicate case label and art OBject ease label respec-tively.
K1 and K2 stand for some case labels.
The termekpresslons of the left side hand of the rewriting rule(3)d describe that nl{v} is modified by n2 whichdepends on a predicative noun nl  as the objectiveterm.In usual cases, the preposition used for modifying anoun by a noun is the preposition "of" and "of" is takenfor the dcfidt value of the preposition.
If a specificpreposition "prep" is indicated to the noun term nl{vt}by a posteditor, PECOF records "prep" in the preposi-I;ion item of the noun word nl  of the word dictionarytogether with the applied rewriting rule as follows:MODifier:< PREP >,<PlZEP>:prep,It~ADJP1 (4)~Bxample 1(a)..inquiry %f *-- into' the question..(b)..discussion 'of +- on' the question..where'a ~- b' means the replacement of %' by 'b'.Corresponding to error corrections in postediting inthe above, the recorded items of "prep" in the word dic-tionary are "into" and "on" in a form of (4) respec-tively.The correcting information of the other kinds of syn-tactic errors can be fed back to the original MT systemin a similar way.4.L2?
lhewrltlng rule eons~ructlonAn MT system sometimes lacks some rewriting rules.For example, technical papers oll.en devise and use aconcise phra~e xpression instead of a long complicatedexpression under ~lle condition that no ambiguity isbrought.Let u,~ consider the following rewriting rules of anoun phrase:<NP(nl  (PRED:v,KI:*,K2:n2,..)) >:: = <Nl?l(n 1)><RLC(PRED:v,KI:*,K2:n2,...) > (5.1)<NPI(n(OBJ:*,DET:det)) >:: = <DET(det)> <NP2(n)> (5.2)where RLC and DET stand for RELative Clause andDETerminer respectively.When an interinediate formcar(OBJ:*(OBJ:*,DET:a),PRED:be drive-en,AG:motor) (6.1)is given~ a relative clause" a car that is driven by motor" (6.2)is generated by the rewriting rule (5.1) aud others.Now ~ suppose that the relative clause is replaced by aphrase"a motor driven tax" (7.1)in postediti~,g.
PECOF infers the rewriting rule whichwewrites (6.1) to the above corrected phrase and adds to(SA) an alternative r writing rule:: = <DET(det)> <NP(n2)><PastParticiple(v)><NP(n l )> (7.2)Some words can be used only by a specific syntacticrule which belongs to a general syntactic rule.
The sen-tences that include these words can be parsed and inter-preted by the general rules which are not conditionedby various syntactic patterns in details.
On the con-trary, the generation of the sentences needs the infor-mation of the specific usages of the words.
For example,the verb "doubt" conventionally takes the OBject termthrough WHETHER-CLAUSE in an affirmative sen-tence and THAT-CLAUSE in a negative sentence.
Theinformation is needed to generate the target sentencefrom the intermediate form TIo2 and is given by somerewriting rules or by complementing the rewriting ruleshy means of adding the necessary information to theword dictionary as shown in Expr.(4).4?2.
Transfer ule ?orrectlon4.2.1.
Structure transferIf the intermediate form TIol is the same as that ofthe postedited output Tlr l  though TIo2 is differentfrom TIr2, PECOF tries to search for some structuretransfer ules to meet the corrections.
Structure transferis needed so that natural and conventional targetlanguage xpressions can be generated corresponding togiven source language xpressions.As well known, Japanese tends to avoid the use ofnon-animate subjects and also interpret an event as achange of a state due to some causes rather than actionon some objects by an agent.
A general structuretransfer ule between state chauge and action is givenas ibllows:STR:CRl(Structure Transfer Rule :Cause Result 1)(PRED:vl~ OBJ:nl, CAUSE:n2)-,(PRED:v2, AG:n2, OBJ:nl) (8.1)where v2 and vl form a pair of verbs of 'cmtse andresult' or 'action and state change'.
The typical con-crete instances of them are "cause to do" and "do","lead" and"reach", show" aald "be seen" mid others.The above fundamental rule (8.1) is implemented inthe database of the original MT system as well as thereverse MT system in the structure transfer database.The specific information of cause verb "v2" for a givenresult verb "vl" is sometimes recorded in the word dic-tionary together with the name of the applied transferrule as follows:CAUSE-V:v2 STR:CR1 (8.2)When PECOF finds that an original output is pos-,edited by the structure transfer of this type and byusing a cause verb v2, PECOF records v2 in the vl itemof the word dictionary according to the form (8.2).4.2.2.
Word transferThe word to be corrected in word transfer can beidentified by using the information about replacement offall words such as verbs adjectives and nouns.
Moreprecisely, it can be identified from a term of the targetlanguage intermediate form TIr l  modified by a postedi-tot.
Some patterns to bc corrected are shown in the fol-lowing.In a ease structure of a language, the semanticcategories of a governor and the dependants are~ moreor less, bounded.
Furthermore, the conventionalcategory boundary set of terms in a frame of the targetlanguage is not always the same as that of the source479language and sometimes structure transfer is needed.The discrepancy between the semantic categoryboundary of a word and that of the equivalent isrevealed when the word is linked with some dependantsor the governor, ttence the equivalent must be chosenso that no conflict occurs on the semantic ategory con-ditions of the linked words in the target language.Let us assume that a word t l  of a source language canbe represented by an equivalent t l l '  or t12' of the tar-get language in the following condition:HEADWOItD: tlEQUIV:t Ii ' COND:(KI-Chtl, K2-C21,...), (9.1)EQUIV:t 12' COND:(KI-CI:tl, K2-C22,...), (9.2)where Ki and Ci (i=1,2,...) denote a case label and asemantic ategory nmne respectively and both t11' andt12' are the equivalents of t l  under the condition thatthe term t l  appears in the context of the case-categorylabel of K1-C1 accompanied with a term of case-category label K2-C21 or K2-C22.Furthermore, suppose that a postedltor replaces theequivalent l l '  by t13' under a condition that theword t l  is accompanied with a word t23 of a case-category label K2-C23 and C23 is a subcategory name ofC21.Then, the equivalent applied condition (9.1) of theword t l  of the word dictionary are replaced as follows:HEADWORD:t 1EQUIV:t 11 ', COND:(K1-CI:t 1,K2-{C21-C23},...), (9.3)EQUIV:tl3', COND:(KI-C l:t I,K2-C23,...), (9.4)If t13' is the same as t12' ,  (9.4) and (9.2) are uni-fied as follows:EQUIV:tl2', COND:(K1-Chtl,l?2-{C22 ~C23},...), (9.5)where {Ci?Cj)  denotes the union or the differenceset of the sets expressed by tim category names Ci andcj.Example 2Japanese represents emotional state expressions byusing adjective verbs.
They have the same formirrespective of the active or the passive type.
On theother hand, English has a different expression depend-ing on whether the object to be described is active orpassive.
For instance, they are "interesting" versus"interested", enjoyable" versus "enjoy oneself", "excit-ing" versus "excited" and others.Let us take an example.
It is assumed that the mainpart of the Japanese-English word dictionary of a word"TAIKUTSU-DE ARU" or " be boring" in English isgiven as follows:tIEADWORD :~J~'/?~  (TAIKUTSU-DE ARU)Part of Speech:adjective verb, ROLE:PRED-ATTILEMOTIONEQUIV: be boring (9.6)Let us suppose that for a given Japanese sentence"WATAKUSHI-WA KARE-NO KOUEN-GA TAIKUTSU-DEATTA" a modified sentence "I was (boring *--bored) inhis lecture" is given by a posteditor.
PECOF identifiesthe wrong expression and refines the correspondingitems of the word dictionary by referring to the format(9) as follows:/480EQUIV:be boring,COND:(PRED-ATTR:%OBJ-THINGS,R.ECIPIENT-HUMAN ), (9?7)EQUIV:be bored, COND:(PRED-ATTPa*,EXPER-HUMAN,OBJ-THINGS ), (9.8)where * stands for the word "TAIKUTSU-DE ARU".Example 3A Japanese verb "oshieru" has several meanings,namely, "teach, tell, show, instruct and so forth".
Theobject case categories of "teach" and "tell" of English inthis context are a school subject like mathematics andsimple information like a way to a station respectively.The system MTo chooses the equivalents by examlnoing these category conditions.
If the postediting resultssuggest hat the system needs more precise conditionsfor equivalent selection, PECOF tries to refine thecategory conditions or to add the other case conditions.4.3.
Idlomatle xpression transferAn idiomatic expression (including a compound) cowsists of several words and has a somewhat definitemeaning when compared with a single word.
Everylanguage has various unique idiomatic expressions.
It isconsidered that one of the most efficient and reliablemethods in machine translation is to cover the maincontent o be translated with a frame of an appropriateidiomatic expression of the target language.
Therefore,it will be necessary for a good MT system to have alarge storage of various idiomatic expressions and to becapable of selecting an appropriate target idiomaticexpression to cover the main part of a given sourcelanguage expressions.
PECOF helps gathering theidiomatic expressions given by posteditors.At first, PECOF identifies an output part modifiedby a posteditor to be an idiomatic expressions.
Theinformation of identification is given by the postedltoror is inferred from a phrase form of the replaced part.PECOF selects a keyword among the words involved inthe idiomatic expression and identifies the correspond?ing source language word by referring to the currentword dictionary mentioned in section 3.
Then PECOFrecords the corresponding source language idiomaticexpressions "a l  t /~1" at the location labeled with theheading of the keyword "t" in the word dictionary sothat the idiomatic expression can be applied with prior-ity in the word transfer by the longest match method.
Ifa similar heading idiomatic expression "a2 t f12" whichhas the same target expressions i already involved inthe location, these heading expressions are unified asfollows:, ,{~1,~2} t {~1,~2},, ,-- ,,~1 t ~r , ,  ,,~2 t ~2',The semantic and syntactic information ecessary tbrthe dependants and the governor are added to theidiomatic expressions.Example 4HEADWORD: ~,~.. (JYUTEN)e o ?
?
.
oIDIOM1: 1~_~?
{~<,  Ll~'6}(NI-JYUTEN-WO{OKU,SHIBORU})(PRED-THINKACT: ~x,~ : { ~ <.
L l~" 6 },I,O(;.,THINCS:~ t~:)put cmph.~si,,~ ox(PRED-TtHNKACT:put emphasisL()C, .THINGS:on-)~L ~1~me Rtustrative xar~plesThi:~ ~c,:tion sho.m some illustrative xamples of themodific~,tion of d{ctiomMez by posteditors ~ correctinginlbrmati~t, 'J/hey axe {;o bc tested by the experinmntalsystem PI~\]COF which is uttdcr construction.~\]xample ~;~1The inpn~ 3apanese sentence So mid tim output Toof t;he original Mq.'
system are given respectively aa lbl..\ ] .OWS .
'To:The t?.ol ha.s the ability which removc'~ heat fl:omthe crit;ieal~cut-rmlge.The interr,mdiate form Tio2 of the above isTIo2:(Pi~,?
'3D:have~I'OSSES,S OR:t~oI(OBJ:*~DET:the),( )BJ:~tbility(PRED:remove,OBJ:heat, INSTR:*,...))The output Tr corrected by a posteditor is'rr:The tool has the ability to remove heat from thecritical catting re'ca.The inte:.
:n,ediate Ibrm Tit2 of the above is the sameas Tio2 e)::cept Nr the technical term "critical cuttingFirst~ PFATOI?
find~ t, hat the intermediate form Tlol  ofthe origimd ouLpnt is the same as that of the posteditedou~pu~ T\[:.
:I if the word "critical~vuG~ang0" iS l'epl~cedby "crith:alocutting-area' ~ ccording to postedi~or'sdesignation.
PECOF corrects the word dictionary m~d~he intermediate forms of the following tran.st~r stagesbmsed on ~he replacement and finds that discrepmmiesremain only in the target surNce expressions.PECOF examines the rewriting rules applied to Tlr2~recognizes that the form to be ~applied to "ability" as amodifier is an il/finitive and adds the information to theMODifier item of the word dictionary as follows:HEADWORD: fl~?\]J (NOURYOKU)EQUIV:ability,..,MODifier:<INF>, RR:ADJP2Bxample 5,2The input Japmtese sentence So and the output Toof the original MT system are given respectively as tbl?l ow~:So: = ?
)I,~)~tINJfV4:: ?
o:, ~c~?
)~Y ~ .. ~--Y- 4 J tottl')J ~q'4 6 tc Z,.To: A phlrMity of outputs d variable duty ratio isobtai~,ed with this time division operation.The intermediate form TIo2 of the above isTIo2:(P\]fOgD:obtMn(VOiCE:p~sive),OBJ:oatput(OBJ:*~NUM:plurality,ATTR:variable-duty?ratio),CA USE:time-divlsiolt ~operation(OBJ:*~l)ET:the))The output Tr corrected by a posteditor isTr:This time division operation provides a plurality ofoutputs of variable duty ratio.The internmdiate form Th-2 of the above isTh'2:(PRED:provide(VOICE:active),OBJ:output( ..... ),AG:time-division-operation(....))PECOF compares TIo2 with TIr2~ recognizes thatTIr2 cau be obtained by applying tim gexleral Structure'\]?rausfcr R.ule CR1 to Tit2 with the specification ofCAUSI~:V being "provide" for RESULT-V of "obtain",and then writes down the information in thecorresponding item in the word dictionary a~s follows:IIEADWORD: ~5 (EltU).
.
, ,  .
.
.
.
.EQUIV:obtain, ....CAUSE-V:provide 8TR:CR1~?
ConclusionThis research is still under the early stage and needsa lot of experimental investigation.
This paper shows anmthod of modification of the database for a compara-tively definite error patterns.
There will be left variouskinds of indefinite error patterns which should becharacterized chLssified and corrected by some formu-lated procedures.
IIowever, the basic idea mM systempresented here will be useful for improving the trmlsla-tion quality of the MT system and collecting new techn-ical words and idiomatic expressions.
Furthermore, ifboth the original and the reverse MT systems have theposteditors feedback respectively and cooperate witheach other, the integrated system will be very powerfuland efficien?
?o improve ~he tra~slatk)n tI*~Mity andcapability in the bilingual translation.iKeference(1)Pigott I.M.
(1981) 'The importmme of feedback fromtranslators in the development of high-qualitymachine translation.'
In:V.Lawson(ed.
): PracticalExperience of Machine Translation: North-Holland,pp.61-74.
(2)Green R.(1981) 'The MR' errors wlficb causes mosttrouble to posteditors.'
ibid.
pp.101-1.304.
(3)Bernard Lavorel(1981) 'Experience in English-Frenchpost-editing.'
ibid.
pp.105-1.309.
(4)Rossi F.(1981) 'The impact of posteditors' feedbackon the quality of MT.'
ibid.
pp.113-1.317.
(5)Carbonell J.G.
and Tomita M.(1987) 'Knowledge-based machine translation.'
In:S.Nierenburg(ed.
):Machine Translation:Cmnhridge Univ.Press,pp.68-89.
(6)Nishida F. and Takarnatsu S.,(1982) 'Japanese-English Translation through Internal Expressions.
'In: Proc.
of COLING 82, pp.271-276.
(7)Nishida F., Fujita Y. and Takamatsu S.(1986) 'Con-struction of a Modular and Portable Machine Trans-lation System.'
In: Proc.
of COLING 86, pp.649-651.
(8)Nishida F., Fujita Y.and Takmnatsu,S(1987) 'Refine-nmnt a~ld Error Detection of Program Specificationsby a Linking Technique of Library Modules.
'IPSJ,28, 5,pp.486-498.
(written in Japanese)481
