Discontinuities in NarrativesAlexander NakhimovskyDepartment of Computer ScienceColgate UniversityHamilton, NY 13346saaha%colgate.csnet@ r lay.cs.netABSTRACTThis paper is concenled with heuristics for seg-menting narratives into units that form the basic ele-ments of discourse representations and that constrainthe application of focusing algorithms.
The followingclasses of di~ontinuities are identified: figure-ground,space, time, perspective, and topic.
It is suggestedthat rhetorical relations between narrative units aremac~o labels that stand for frequently occurring clus-ters of discontinuities.
Heuristics for identifyingdiscontinuities are presented and illustrated in anextended example.1.
The Segmentation Problem.1.1.
IntroductionThi~; paper is concerned with heuristics for segmenting nar-ratives into units that tb~t  the basic elements of discourserepresentations and that constrain the application of focusingalgorithmr,.
The importance of proper segmentation is frequentlymentioned; as one text says, "the need for segmentation isahnost universally agreed upon .
.
.
.
A good model ofsegmentation is essential to simplify the problem of understand-ing discourse.
In particular, it divides the problem into twomajor subproblems: what techniques are needed to analyze thesentence.
'; within a segment and how segments can be related toeach other" (Allen 1987: 398-399).
However, "there is littleconsensus on what the segments of a particular discourse shouldbe or how segmentation could be accomplished.
One reason forthis lack of consensus i that there is no precise definition of whata segmen!
is beyond the intuition that certain sentences naturallygroup together" (ibid.).
A brief discussion of our position istherefore in order, addressing the following questions: What is itthat is being segmented?
What is the dominant feature of a seg-ment?
What is the purpose of the segmentation process?We adopt the position that reading a narrative, like takingpart in a eo~wersation, is a form of soci',d interaction.
However,the nature of the interaction is quite different in narratives andconversations, and so are the principles of segmentation a d thenature of the resulting segments.
The time of a conversationcoincides with the time of its content.
Sinmltaneity in time istypically accompanied by a tight integration between linguistieand non-linguistic behavior: the verbalization of how-to-get-there directions is the action of giving directions, task-orientedconversations between an expert and apprentice are an integralpart of p~rforming the task at hand, and the unfolding text of aaWilliam J. RapaportGraduate Group in Cognitive ScienceandDepartment of Computer ScienceState University of New York at BuffaloBuffalo, NY 14260rapapon@ cs.bu ffalo.eduargumentative dialogue is precisely the activity of arguing.Conversation can thus properly be called performative discourse.By contrast, the content of a narrative is decoupled from thelinear progression of its text and unfolds in its own, separatetimeline.It follows that in place of the situation of discourse, a narra-tive is processed with respect o a constantly maintained eicticcenter, which is "the locus in conceptual space-time of theobjects and events depicted or described by the sentencescurrently being perceived.
At any point in the narrative, the cog-nitive agent's attention is focused on particular characters (andother objects) standing in particular temporal and spatial relationsto each other.
Moreover, file agent 'looks' at the narrative fromthe perspective of a particular character, spatial location and tem-poral location.
Thus the deictic center consists of a WHERE-point, a WHEN-point and a WHO-point."
(Bruder et at.
1986:1).
In this paper, the WHEN-point of the deictic center isreferred to as the Temporal Focus (cf.
Webber 1987a,b; Nakhi-movsky 1987b).We conceive of discourse segments (DSs) as continuousstretches of text corresponding to relatively monolithic pieces ofinternal representation.
What "relatively monolithic" means isthe subject of much of the rest of the paper; at this point, we sim-ply say that the DS remains the same as long as the deictic centerdoes not undergo drastic changes in space, time, perspective orcomposition, while the beginning of a new DS isaccompanied/signaled by a discontinuity in one or several ofthese parameters.
Within each segment, reference and anaphoraate processed by local algorithms mostly relying on recency listsas in Sidner (1983).
At the beginning of a new DS, a more globalsearch through the accumulated representation is required.We thus have three kinds of entities organized into threekinds of structures: linearly ordered stretches of text forming theLinear Text Structure (LTS); the Event-Situation Structure (ESS,ef.
Webber 1987b), representing the narrative's unfolding con-tents; and the Current Focus Space, which is a collection offocusing mechanisms (including the deictic center) that togetherrepresent the "attentional state" (Grosz & Sidner 1986) of thesystem.
The components of the LTS are frequently linked byrbetodcal relationg such as elaboration, resumption or flashback(see, e.g., Hobbs 1982).
We believe that these rhetorical rela-tions are simply macro labels that stand for certain oft-repeatedclusters of discontinuities in the ESS.
It is the discontinuities thatare essential for constructing the ESS; the rhetorical labels neednot be recognized by the reader at all, just as, on the sentence465level, speech acts need not be recognized in order to understandthe intention of the speaker (Cohen & Levesque 1987).The foregoing has sewed to motivate the need for reliablesegmentation heuristics.
Most such heuristics found in the iitera~ture are syntactical in nature, relying, in almost Eliza-likefashion, on clue words and phrases (see references in Grosz &Sidner 1986: 177).
We pt~pose that heuristics hould be basedon semantical considerations such as discontinuities in therepresentation.
This paper investigates four kinds of discontinui-ties: discontinuities of topic, discontinuities of space and time,discontinuities of figure and ground, and discontinuities of thenarrative perspective.
Section 2 explains what these are; theremainder of this section gives a preliminary and paltial illustra-tion and reviews related work.1.2 An exampleConsider the following example:(1) (a) Hartley and Phoebe had been sent by their mother to fixthe tail vane of the windmill.
(b) In the great expanse of theprairie where they live(I, the high tower of the windmill wasthe only teal landmark.
(Worline 1956: 1)Rhetorically speaking, sentence (b) interrupts a sequence ofevents described in (a) (= DS1) to start DS2, a description, fitorder to recognize this rhetorical relation between the two DSs, itis necessary to recognize that:(1) there is a shift of topic;(2) there is a shift in perceptual modality to visuai percep-tion;(3) there is a shift in time scale ,from the events of thecun'ent day to years or decades, associated with the lifetimeof a windmill and the 'where they lived' clause;(4) there is shift in Sl~tial scale from a household to theentire prairie;(5) there is a shift from a foregrounded sequence of eventsto the "mopping-up" operation of filling in the background;the shift is signaled by aspectual changes (Hopper 1978;Nakhimovsky 1987b, 1988); and(6) the foregrounded sequence of events includes two telicprocesses (walking fi'om rite house to the windmill; fixingthe broken part) whose beginnings or preconditions areexplicitly mentioned but whose terminal points are still inthe future relative to the Temporal Focus; this sets upexpectations for the reader.The following empirical investigation is suggested by thisand similar' examples: classify the discontinuities and clusters ofdiscontinuities that typically accompany DS breaks in narratives;identify rite linguistic and extra-linguistic knowledge involved;develop heuristics for using this knowledge; and test the heuris-tics in a computer program.
Section 2 below discusses nma-ativerepresentations mid the data structures that ale needed for con.-structing and updating them.
A classification of discontinuitiesfalls out of this discussion.
Section 3 presents everal kinds ofknowledge that we consider elevant for identifying discontinui-466ties in narratives.
Section 4 illustrates the colresponding heuris-tics with an extended example Whose point is that our heuristicsexplain the use of deietic devices attd con'ecfly predict paragraphbreaks observed in existing narratives.'i1.3.
Related workCentt~al to our investigation is the idea that text underst~md-ing involves "building a good structure" (Bruce 1981: 283) bythe process of snccessive mbedding of the cut~ent sentencerepresentation into the stEa~cture created by the preceding text.This idea emerged almost simultmleously in ComputationalLinguistics/Al (Bruce 1981; Weber  1979, 1983) and linguistics(Kamp 1981, Heim 1982).
(There has a l~ been interaction,more o1' less conscious, with the Re,",der--Response chool ofliterary criticism as represented in, e.g., Thompkins 1981.)
Themain difference between these two developments concerns therole of inference and monotonicity: to what extent doe, s thestructure being built incorporate defea.sible inferences that mayhave to be undone?
We do not pursue this issue hele but assumenon~-monotonic embeddability and an active role fbr expectationsset up by the text.
(Cf.
N~himovsky 1988 for some discussion.
)Grosz & Sidner (1986) is the first unified approach in whichthe problem of segmentation is fled up with the notion of atten..tional state.
As argued in Nakhimovsky (1987b), some featuresof their model (a stack mechanism for attentional state, the prom~inenee of pragmatic notions such as the speaker's intentions)make it more appropriate for conversation rather than na~cative~Webber (1988) and Naidlimovsky (1988) suggest a model inwhich the distinction between the top and the rest of die stack isreplaced by the distinction between a sh~nt~tel'm memory and theESS.Ottr work has been developing in close contact with theSUNY Buffalo Graduate Group in Cognitive Science's p~'ojcct oncognitive and computer systems for understanding arrative text.This research program consists of a group of projects whosegoals are to develop a psychologically real model of' a cognitiveagent's comprehension f deictic infbnnation in nan'ative text.The hypothesis of this project is that the eonstrtiction andmodification of the deictic center is important fox ~ comprehension.To test tiffs hypothesis, a computer system implemented inSNePS (Shapiro 1979, Shapiro & Rapaport 1987) is beingdeveloped that wilt "read" a narrative and answer questions con-renting the reader's beliefs about the objects, relations, andevents in ito "l~e system will be psychologically real, because thedetails of the algorithms and the efficacy of the linguistic deviceswill be validated by psychological experiments on nolmal ar, dabnormal comprehenders.
((~.
Bruder et al 1986, Daniels 1986,Ahneida 1987, Wiebe & Rapapolt 1988.
)Thence is surprisingly little psychological work on discourseseganentation.
To rem.edy this situation, a series of expelJmentsI" This is not to suggest timt yl~ogmphical p cag~aph breaks are theonly discontinuities weate afar.
First, ~t tile minimal level of seg-mentation, DSs are ust'tally smaller than typographical p ragraphs.Second, a typographical p ragraph does not simply sigJlat or suggesta discontinuity: it creates one by its reD' pJ'esenc.~;.is being de,,;igned and condncted at Colgate (Reynolds & Nakhi-movsky (in preparation)).
The gubjects are being asked tosegment narratives of varions gemes and stpactural characteris-tics and later recall them, under conditions of both cued anduncued ~eeatl.
We proceed from the hypothesis that narrativestructures as they arc remembered are different from such strnc-tures as they are built "on line" in the process of comprehension.2o Narrative~ and Their l l tepr~ntatlon~.For the purposes of this paper, we adopt he simplest narra~five model.
There is only one, objective, narrator, who gives anobserver account of the story.
The story consists of descriptionsof situation,; evolving or persisting in time.
Loosely followingHayes (1995), we call these descriptions history-~okens, or h~token,s tbr slto~.
(l,exieal meanings are history-types (h-types)related to iheh" h-tokens by the relation of "non-monotonicemtnMdability".)
The time of a narrated h-token is determinedwith respecl to a specific point within the previously muratexl h-tokens~ and usually without reference to the time of discourse.\] ~Using Reiehenbach's notion of refel~ence time, we can say that asentence in a narrative never has the time of discourse as itsreference tiaie.
Put differently, a sentence in a present ensenecessarily ~ntennpts a nan'ative, unless it is int~preted as histor-ical (narrative) present.Tl~e meaning of a non-generic sentence in a narrative is acollection of h-tokens together with the position of the deicticcenter (to lhe extent hat it is uniquely specified by the sentence).After the first sentence of a nm'rative establishes the initial set-up,each subsequent sentence is processed ill the context consistingof the ESS and ttte Current Focus Space.
Depending on themeaning of the sentence, one of two things happens: either therepresentation of the sentence is incorporated in the CurrentFocus Space, with the focusing mechanisms appropriatelymodified, or, in the case of a focus shift, the contents of theCurrent Foeus Space are incorporated into the Event-SituationSlxucture (ESS) ~md Linear Text Stmctore (LTS), and the CurrentFocus Space is completely reset.
The nature of the processing atthe DS juncOtre is thus quite different fiom the "routine" tasksm be performed as long as the text remains in the same DS: thestart of a lle't,v DS prompts, and is prompted by, a shift of atten-tion.
The (ircularity here is deliberate.
The start of a new DSbrings al~t~t several c~,anges, ome of them more immediatelynoticeable thorn others; file mole obvious ones serve to signal thata new DS is, indeed, started.
We p~oceed to catalog the changes.Th~ lost obsetvali~n tomake is that a nan'ative must have aplot, i.e., p~e~ent ~ sequ~mce of events that forms an inslamce of arecognizable pattern.
(The patto-n.,; are part universal, partculture-.specific; the work of Lehnert (1982) and Alker et ali In spoken arratives about eve~L,; that (axe presented itshaving) ac..ta~lly oecun'ed, rite namator nmy occ~L~ionally make ~eference to thetime of discom'se (by b,-.ginnh~g a new discotlrse segment with, e.g.,"Then, yesterday, 1 ran into 8mid~ mid he told me..."); however,oven in |his case, hltegration with ttie previously narrated events isobligatory.
(1985) can be seen as a search for the principles on which suchpatterns are built.)
Using Gestalt terminology (brought intolinguistics by Tahny (1983)), we can say that a narrative's plotmust present arecognizable t mporal/eansal figure shown againstsome ground that minimally consists of spatial/visual settings(descriptions of characters are also frequent).
The distinction isnot always clear-cut, because lements of the figure can be hid-den among the details of the ground, but the temporal nature ofthe plot does stand in clear contrast to the spatial nature of theground.Secondly, a narrative must have characters with whom weempathize.
These characters don't have to be human: one Caneasily imagine a story about an adventuresome plant seed thatfalls off its parent, gets swallowed and excreted by a horse, andnearly drowns in a tropical rain before being miraculously savedby the sun and producing a flower.
Even so, the narrative islikely to alternate between die objective narrator's point of viewand that of one of the characters.
("The belly of the horse wasdark and noisy inside.
")Suppose for a moment that the ESS is implemented asa par-titioned network of nodes, each node representing a narrated h-token and partitions corresponding to the belief spaces of thecharacters.
An unfolding narrative then creates a path throughthe network such that it, and the inferences it generates, coversthe network in its entirety.
Some discontinuities of narrativesvery simply reflect the inlrinsic spatial or temporal discontinui-ties of the plot, e.g., when the story is composed of a sequence ofevents taking place during an afternoon, followed by two years'hiatus, followed by another action-packed afternoon.
(A similarexample of a spatial discontinuity can be easily imagined.)
Onemeasure of the "simplicity" of a narrative is how faithfully theorder and stntcturing of its text reflects the order and structuringof its component events.
Even in the simplest narrative, how~ever, there are bound to be discontinuities resulting from the ten-sion between the linear nature of the text and the multi-dimensional structure that it is meant o evoke.
These are discon-tinuities of figure and ground, when the narrative shifts betweenthe main story-line and the surrounding circumstance, anddiscontinuities of perspective, when the narrative crosses into adifferent "empathy partition" or creates a new one.Given this classification of discontinuities, one can proceedto catalog the clues that signal them.
This is a subject for a largeempirical study, of which the next section is but a preliminarysketch.
It is important o keep in mind that it is clusters ofdiscontinuities that signal the beginning of a new DS.3.
Discontinuities in Narratives.3.1.
Topic discon\[inuities.Discontinuities of topic faLl into two groups.
In the first,there is no anaphoric relation or immediate inference path fromthe new topic to a node in the Current Focus Space.
What an"immediate inference path" is depends, of course, on thesystem's knowledge base and inferential capabilities, but this is a467separate issue that is not dealt with in this paper.
Of moreinterest to us is the second kind of discontinuity, when ananaphoric relation exists and calls for a pronominal anaphor, butthe WHO-point is instead reintroduced by a full noun phrase, e.g.
(unless otherwise indicated, the examples below are from Joyce1969 \[1914\]):(2) \[The barmbracks\] had been cut into long thick slices andwere ready to be handed round at tea.
Mafia had cut themherself.Maria was a very, very small person indeed.. .3.2.
Temporal discontinuities.The most important temporal discontinuities are:a.
A shift from perfective to imperfective sentence perspectiveaccompanied by a shift to a much greater time scale.
Thecorresponding rhetorical move is frequently characterized as"introducing background or descriptive material".
Themove is frequently accompanied by a topic re-introduction.b.
The reverse shift from descriptive material to the main lineof the narrative.
This move is signaled by the TF and theentire deictie center, returning to an established node in theESS, with an appropriate contraction of the time scale.c.
A backwards move of the TF to an earler point in time, withor without a change in time scale.
Rhetorically, this isknown as flashback.
This move is frequently signaled by averb in past perfect or by the used to + Infinitive construc-tion, although a shift may occur without such a verb form,and the presence of such a verb form does not necessarilysignal a shift: the reference time of the sentence may remainthe same as, rather than precede, the current TF.
(SeeAlmeida (1987) and Nakhimovsky (1988) for a moredetailed iscussion.)3.3.
Spatial discontinuities.The most obvious spatial discontinuities are discontinuitiesof scale.
It is argued at some length in Nakhimovsky (1986,1987a) that h-types have time scales associated with them,characterized in terms of "received" cyclical events uch as dayor year.
It seems equally necessary to establish a gradation ofspatial scales, based on similar considerations from human biol-ogy and habitat.
The spatial scales we currently employ are:one's body (which may need to be further specialized); withinarm's reach; room area, such as desk or bed; room; floor; house;household; village/neighborhood; larger area within a between-meals round trip; within a day's round trip; staying overnight.
(The larger the scale, the more domain- and culture-specific vail-ation there is.
)A change in spatial scale is frequently accompanied byrelated phenomena such as a change in temperature or lighting:(3) She changed her blouse too and, as she stood before the mir-ror, she thought of how she used to dress for mass on Sun-day morning when she was a young girl; and she lookedwith quaint affection at the diminutive body which she hadso often adorned.
In spite of its years she found it a nicetidy little body.468When she got outside the streets were shining with rain andshe was glad of her old brown raincloak.3.4.
Perspective discontinuities.The following signals frequently indicate a shift to acharacter's subjective perspective away from the objective per-spective of the implied narrator: (a) attitude reports, which canbe further subeategorized into beliefs, desires, emotions, and soon; communication verbs; and perceptions; and (b) deictics.Attitude reports, by their very nature, introduce private semanticobjects into the ESS and thus create, or move into, a partition.Deictics, such as the verbs bring or come, indicate the position ofthe WHO-point of the deictie center; a shift of this position toone of the characters signals a discontinuity.
(Cf.
Banfield 1982,Wiebe & Rapaport 1988.)4.
An Example.This section of the paper applies the above heuristics to theinitial fragment of Joyce's "Clay' '.
The fragment falls into threeDSs: sentence 1 (DS1), sentences 2-6 (DS2), and sentences 6-12(DS3).t Embedded in DS3 is DS3.1, consisting of sentences 9..10.
Sentence 13 starts a fourth DS by returning to the first one.1.
The matron had given her leave to go out as soon as thewomen's tea was over and Mafia looked forward to her eveningout.
2.
The kitchen was spick and span: the cook said you couldsee yourself in the big copper boilers.
3.
The fire was nice andbright and on one of the side-tables were four very big bann-bracks.
4.
These barmbracks eemed uncut; but if you wentcloser you would see that they had been cut into long thick evenslices and were ready to be handed round at tea.
5.
Mafia hadcut them herself.6.
Maria was a very, very small person indeed but she had a verylong nose and a very long chin, 7.
She talked a little through ernose, always soothingly: Yes, my dear, and No, my dear.
8.
Shewas always sent for when the women quarrelled over their tubsand always succeeded in making peace.
9.
One day the matronhad said to her:--Maria, you are a veritable peace-maker!
10.And the sub-matron and two of the Board ladies had heard thecompliment.
11.
And Ginger Mooney was always saying whatshe wouldn't do to the dummy who had charge of the irons if itwasn't for Maria.
12.
Everyone was so fond of Maria.13.
The women would have their tea at six o'clock and she wouldbe able to get away before seven.The transition from sentence 1 to 2 is very similar to thetransition from (a) to (b) in example (1): it is a shift from figureto ground marked primarily by tense and aspect changes and ashift from temporal to spatial/visual material.
The change intime and space scales is not as dramatic here, but there is thet'II~esc intuitive divisions, two of which correspond to Joyce's para-graph breaks, have been Confirmed by one of the experiments report-ed in Reynolds and Nakhirnovsky (in preparation).sane arrangement of nanated events that are prior to the Tem-poral Focus ("The matron had given her leave.
.
. "
)  and antici-pated events that are in the future with respect o the TemporalFocus (the women's tea, Maria's evening out).
This sets upexpectations suspended by the visual matedM and stative verbs.Sentence 5, by using an action verb and the past-perfect tense,return to the time scale and the temporal a~rangernent of sentence1.The transition from 5 to 6 (paragraph break) is characterizedby a shift ia time scale and a topic re-introduction.
The materialis a (back)ground character description: 'Maria is such that .
.
.
'The hegira,Aug of" DS3.1 is signaled by a well-known clue phraseOne day and by the past-perfect tense.
Note that the material isstill gronnd ('Mmia is such that.
.
. '
) .
"the precise relationshipbetween I)S3 and DS3.1 is at this p~fint ambiguous: they cmt besiblings, a ltd they wouM be if sentences 11 and 12 were droppedfi'om the nmxafive.
Howevcr~ sentence 11 clearly signals a returuto the material of sentences 6-8: the tense changes back frompast perfect o past (past progressive, presumably for a sharpercontrast with the perfect), and the adverb always, used in sen?tences 7 and 8, reappears again.
'Ibis establishes that DS3.1 is,indeed, embedded in DS3; note that it bears no relation to DS1,and, in pmticular, the pastq~erfect events of sentences 9-10 aremuch fm'ther in the past (on a different ime scale) than the pastperfect events of sentence 1.The tJ ansition from 12 to 13 (the next paragraph break) is aretina to the event sequence of senteuce 1.
The position of theTF, amt the entire deictic center is indicated by the future-in-the~past tense.
Note that it is essential to retrieve the entire deicticcenter, and not just the 'I'I,', because the WHO-point is alsorestored: the she in 13 does not evoke Maria of sentence 12 orany other sentence in DS 2 and 3 presented from the perspectiveof the implied narrator.
Rather, this pronoun is a quasi-indexical(Rapaport 1986) that replaces the first-person singular I ofMaria's fit, mghts and expectations, signaled by Maria looked for-ward in sentence 1.t5.
Future research.There: are several directions in which we are proceeding.Wiebe & Rapaport (1988) and Wiebe (in progress) present anoutline of a detailed computational investigation of narrative per-specfive and reference.
Reynolds & Nakhimovsky (in prepara-tion) will report on several psychological experiments designedto obtain empirical data on how people segment narratives in theprocess of reacting, and how they are segmented when recalled.The deicti?
center project (Bruder et at.
(1986)) contains both alinguistic t;tudy of the role of indexicals in narrative segmentation1In contrast to the naive children's story of Example 1, it is difficultto make definite starements about he narrative perspective in Joyce.Even his early stories, anticipating the incoming medenfism, deli.-berately and skillfully blend the character's perspective with the im-plied ruartator's, sothat even a descriptiou fMaria uses colloquialvocabulary and syntax that suggest a hum,'m voice that could l~e oulyMafia's.and a computational project hat will test all the diverse segmen-tation he~wisties within the unifoma system of belief representa-.tion.Acknowledgments.This research was supported in part by NSF Grant No.
IR1-8610517.
We are grateful to Mary Galbraith and Janyce M.Wiebe for comments on an earlier version, and to BonnieWebber and Rebecca Passonneau for discussions of related work.References.Alker et at.
1985.
Two reinterpretations of Toynbee's Jesus:Explorations in computational helmeneutics.
In G.
Tonfoni(ed.
), Artificial Intelligence and Text Understanding.Quaderni di Ricerca Linguistica 6: 49-94.Allen, James.
1984.
Towards a general theory of action andthne, ArtiJicial Intelligence 23: 123-154.Allen, James.
1987.
Natural Language Understanding.
MenloPark, CA: Benjamin Cummings Publishing Co.Almeida, Michael J.
1987.
Reasoning about the temporal struc-ture of narratives.
Technical Report 87-10.
Buffalo:SUNY Buffalo Department of Computer Science.Banfield, Ann.
1982.
Unspeakable Sentences: Narration andRepresentation in the Language of Fiction.
Boston:Roufledge & Kegan Paul.Bruce, Bertram.
1981.
A social interaction model of reading,Discourse Processes 4:273-311.Bruder, G. A., et al 1986.
Deictic centers in narrative: An liner-disciplinary cognitive-science project.
Technical Report86-20.
Buffalo, NY: SUNY Buffalo Department of Com-puter Science.Cohen, Philip R., & Levesque, Hector J.
1987.
Persistence,intention and commitment.
CSLI-87-88.
Stanford, CA:CSLI.Daniels, Joyce H. 1986.
A psychological investigation i to thedeictie center.
Proc.
8th Annual Conference of the Cogni-tive Science Soc.
(Univ.
of Mass.
at Amherst).
HiUsdale,NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum: 621-626.Grosz, Barbara, & Sidner, Candace.
1986.
Attention, intentions,and the structure of discourse.
Computational Linguistics12: 175-204.Hayes, P. 1985.
The second naive physics manifesto.
In J.Hobbs & R. Moore (eds.
), Formal Theories of the Cottmum-sense World.
Norwood, NJ: Ablex: 1-36.Helm, I.
1982.
The semantics of definite mad indefinite nounphrases.
Ph.D. Dissertation, Department of Linguistics,University of Massachusetts, Amherst.Hinrichs, Erhard.
1986.
Temporal anaphora in discourses ofEnglish.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 9, 1: 63-82.z~69Hobbs, Jerry R. 1982.
Towards an nnderstanding of coherence indiscourse.
In Lehnert & Ringle (eds.
), Natural LanguageProcessing.
tliltsdale, NJ: Lawrence Edbanm.liot)per~ Paul.
1978.
Aspect and fox, grounding in discourse.
InT?
Givon (cA.
), Disco,awe a~d 5)/ntax.
Syntax and Seman.ties, vol.
12.
New York: Academic Press.
?ioyce, James.
1969 11914\].
Clay.
In Dubgners.
New 'York:Modern Library.Kamp, llans.
1981o A theory of tr,th and semmltic representa-tion.
In J.
A. G. Groenendijk et al (eds.
), Formal Methodsin the SnMy of Language.
Amsterdam.Lehnert, Wendy.
1982.
Plot nnits: A narrative summ.~rizatk)~.,strategy.
In W. Lehnert & M. Ringle (cxts.
), Strategies JbrNatural Language Processing.
llillsdale, NJ: Lava'enceEribaum.Nakhimovsky, A.
1986.
The lexicon and commonsense r ason--ing: A case study?
In Proceedings of' the Conference onAdvances in Lexieology, University of Waterl~m.Nakhimovsky, A.
1987a.
The lexicon, grammatical categories,and temporal reasoning.
In Arti~cial Intelligence and Simu-lation ofBetu~vior, Chichester: John Wiley.Nakhimovsky, A.
1987b.
Temporal reasoning in naturallanguage understandifig: The temporal structure of the nar-rative.
EACI,-.87, Copenhagen.Nakhimovsky, A.
1988.
Tense, aspect, and the temporal struc-ture of narratives.
Computational Linguistics, forthcom-ing.Puttee, Barbara.
1973.
Some structural analogies between tensesand pronouns in English.
Journal of Philosophy 70: 601-609.Rapaport, William .L 1986.
Logical foundations for belief~epresentation.
Cognitive Science 10: 371-422.Reynolds, James and Alexander Nakhimovsky.
In preparation.Segmentation a d recall of narrative texts.Shapiro, Stuart C. 1979.
The SNePS semantic network process-ing system.
In N. V. Findler (ed.
), Associative Networks.New York: Academic.Shapiro, Stuart C., & Rapaport, William J.
1987~ SNePS con-side~ed as a flllly intensi0nal prot~ositional semantic ~let,work.
In N. Cercone & G. McCalla (eas.
), The Kno;,vledge,Frontier, New York: Springer,Verlag: 262-315.Sidner, Candace.
1983.
Fnensing in the comprehensio~l ofdclinite anaphora.
In M. Brady & R. Berwick (eds.
), Com..putational Models of Discourse?
CambrMge, MA: M:TPress.Talmy, \[x~onard.
1983.
How language st~nctmes spume.
\[~c~k~ley Cognitive Science Re4Jort No.
4.
Beri:dey: U,ive~r~:ityof California.Thompkins, Jane.
1981.
Reader Response Criticism.
Balfi~,ta~':Johns Hopkins University Press.Webber, Bomfie.
1979.
A Formal Appt'oach ~'o Discour,';e Asiaphora.
New York: C, adand.Webber, Bonnie.
1983.
So what can we talk ab~-mt k~ow?
t~i MBrady & R. Berwick (eds.
), Computatio~ml Models ojDiscourse.
Cambridge: MFt" Press.Webber, Bonnie.
1987a.
Two steps closer to event reference?
77?MS-CL~-86..74.
Department of Computer and Intb:mationScience, Univensity of Pennsylvania.Webber, Bonnie.
1987b.
The interpretation of tense in discourse.In Proceedings of ACL-87 (Stanford, CA).Webbed, Bonnie.
1988.
Tense as discourse anN~hor?
in (;ompu-tational Linguistics, forthcoming.Wiebe, Janyce.
In progress.
Belief representation, diseour.,;eanalysis, and reference in narrative.Wiebe, Janyce M., & Rapaport, William J.
1988.
A computa-tional theory of perspective and reference in n~rative.Proc.
261h Annual Meeting of" the Association for Compumtional Linguistics (SUNY Bul~'alo).
Monistown, NJ: Asso-ciation tor Computational Linguistics.Worline, Bonnie Bess.
1956.
The Children Who Stayed Alo,w,New York: Scholastic Book Services.470
