Parsing French with Tree Adjoining Grammar:some linguistic accountsAnne ABE ILLE*Department of Computer and Information ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia PA 19104-6389 USAAbstractWe present he first sizable grammar written for TAG.We present he linguistic coverage of our grammar, andexplain the linguistic reasons which lead us to choose theparticular epresentations.
We show that TAG formal-ism provides sufficient constraints for handling most ofthe linguistic phenomena, with minimal inguistic stipula-tions.
We first state the basic structures needed for pars-ing French, with a particular emphasis on TAG's extendeddomain of locality that enables us to state complex sub-categorizaeion phenomena in a natural way.
We then givea detailed analysis of sentential complements, because ithas lead us to introduce substitution in the formalism,and because TAG makes interesting predictions.
We dis-cuss the different linguistic phenomena corresponding toadjunction and to substitution respectively.
We then movcon to support verb constructions, which are represented ina TAG in a simpler way than the usual double analysis.It is the first time support verb constructions are handledin a parser.
We lastly give an overview of the treatmentof adverbs, and suggest a treatment of idioms which makethem fall into the same representations as 'free' structures.IntroductionTree Adjoining Grammar (TAG) was introduced by/Joshiet al 1975/ as a formalism for linguistic description.
ATAG's basic component is a finite set of elementary trees,each of which is a domain of locality, and can be viewedas a minimal inguistic structure.A TAG comprises of two kinds of elementary trees:initial trees (a), which are complete structures, usuallyrooted in S, with preterminals on all their leaves, and aux-iliary trees (fl), which are constrained to have exactly oneleaf node labeled with a non-terminal of the same cate-gory as their root node.
We have added lexical trees (6),which are initial trees corresponding to arguments.
Theirinsertion in preterminal nodes of elementary trees, whichserves as psedicates, is obligatory.Sentences of the language of a TAG are derived from thecomposition of an initial tree and any number of auxiliarytrees by an operation called 'adjunction'.
Adjunction in-*Visiting from University of Paris VII.
This work was partiallysupported by a J. W. Zellidja grant, and also by ARO grantDAA29-84-9-007, DARPA grant N0014-85-K0018, NSF grants MGS-82-191169 slid DCR-84-10413 to the University of Pennsylvania.Thanks are due to Aravind Joshl, Anthony Kroch, and Yves Schahes.serts an auxiliary tree at one of the corresponding odes ofan elementary or a derived tree.
Recursion is provided bythe structure of the auxiliary trees which can adjoin intothemselves.
Adjunction allows the insertion of a completestructure at an interior node of another complete struc-ture.
It appears to be a natural way of handling adverbsand modifiers in natural anguage.
Three constraints canbe associated to any node of an elementary tree : nulladjunction (NA), obligatory adjunction (OA), and selec-tive adjunction (SA).
Because of the formal properties ofadjunction, the formalism is more powerful them Context-I~ee Gran~nar, .but only mildly so/ Joshi  85/.
Most of itslinguistic properties come from the fact that it factors re-cursion from local dependencies.
We are thus able to local-ize all dependencies such as subcategorization, agreement,and filler-gap relations.
Because trees, and not categories,are considered ms the units of the grammar, TAGs havea broader domain of locality than usual phrase structurerules.We have added substitution to the formalism, essen-tially for descriptive purposes.
Although adjunction ismore powerful than substitution, and could be used tosimulate it, it seems more natural to have substitution it-self for lexical insertion and for constructions in which theextra power of adjunction is not needed (section 2).
Wedefine a restrictive use of substitution: it inserts an ini-tial tree (or a tree derived from an initial tree), or a lex-ieal tree, into an elementary tree.
Substitution is alwaysobligatory and only one constraint, selectional substitu-tion, is defined.
This improves the descriptive power ofthe formalism without changing its generative capacity.Features tructures can be associated with each nodeof an elementary tree /Vijay-Shanker 87/.
They permitthe dynamic assignment of constraints.
Features are alsoused for constraining the lexieal insertion of items suchas prepositions in verbal complements, coinplementizer ofsentential complement or determiner in NP.Our grammar currently covers the major basic and de-rived constructions, such as wh-question, relativization orcleft-extraction.
We are also able to handle neutral andreciprocal verbs, middle and locative alternations , as wellas argument reordering such as scrambling or heavy-NPshift.
We refer the reader to /Abeilld 88b/ for a morecomplete presentation of the grammar.
In this paper, wefocus on some constructions which are of particular lin-guistic significance.1 E lementary  trees and min imall inguist ic structuresOur framework is that of a lexicon-grammar /Gross 75/and /Gross 81/.
We view all basic structures as beingproduced by a lexical item in the lexicon.
We adopt thenotation of/Gross 75/and/Boons , Guillet, Lecl~re 76/.In this framework, as in a TAG, the linguistic unit is thesentence.
We define 40 basic structures for French : 12 forverbs taking NP essential complements, and 28 for verbstaking sentential complements.1.1 E lementary  t rees  fo r  bas ic  const ruc -t ionsEach of the first i2 structures are represented inthe grammar by three initial trees corresponding todeclarative sentences, complement clauses, and infini-tive clauses.
Corresponding to No V N1 , we have 1.0( 4SNPo,L VPN V SPl$I I I Jean sims SMerle*eL J?$SOA SOAG 8q.el f lPo~VP NP?I AVP\[ / /~  PRO V SPlJ.. v .p,* I II I !
elmer N Jean airesi IMJrle MerleNP's are substituted at the proper nodes in the trees.
Thestructures a2 and a3, which would otherwise yield incom-plete sentences, bear an obligatory adjunction constrainton their root-nodes.
We have to differentiate trees withinfinitive from trees with tensed verb, because lexical in-sertion is defined on already inflected items, and becauseFrench does not allow lexical subject in infinitive clauses.We thus state this constraint as a basic structure of thegrammar : in a3, the subject has to be non lexical (PRO).A verb is thus defined by its syntactic argument struc-ture, and the corresponding set of trees are associated withit.
We refer to a given argument structure as a tree-family.The optionality of a given argument and the lexical valueof the preposition (for verbs taking prepositional com-plements) are noted as part of the argument structure.A verb with more "than one possible argument structurewill be duplicated.
/Gross 81/shows that French verbshave no more than three essential arguments, includingthe subject.
2IIaving such trees associated with the lexical items, in-stead of a standard argument structure in the form of a list(or of a feature) and rules for sentence formation, providesus with an extended omain of locality that has interest-ing linguistic consequences.
We do not manipulate basiccategories, but tree-structures corresponding to minimalsentences (for a verb, or a predicative noun) or completeconstituents (NP, for a non-predicative noun, AP, for amodifying adjective).
We are thus able to state cross-level1For simplification, we do not put all the adjunction constraintsthese trees bear at their different nodss.J, marks substituti~a.2Leaving apart such examples as Jean parle 1 O0 F d Marie quePierre viendra, which can undergo some kind of reanalysis.
It isnot\]always easy to distinguish essential complements from adjunctsaltl~ough our formalism requires a clear-cut distinction.8dependencies often overlooked in grammars, because theycan only be defined on the sentence as a basic unit.
Forexample, the value of the determiner of the subject maydepend on the verb, as shown in 1-2, but it also depends onthe presence of a verbal complement in 3 ; the adjunctionof the right adjective on the nominal complement dependson the lexical value of the verb in 4-5 :1) * Ce mot rime.~) Ces roots riment.3) Ce mot rime avec "banane'.4)*Jean mange un fntur g~teau.
/Gross 81/5) Jean pr@are un futur gdteau, sLexical insertion, or adjunction of adverbs or modifierssuch as relative clauses, depend on each element of theelementary tree, and not on just the immediately domi-nating node.
They are difficult to capture by CFG rulessuch as S-+NP VP, or VP-*V NP.1.2 E lementary  T rees  fo r  Der ived  Con-s t ruc t ionsIn a TAG, the standard derived constructions are rep-resented as elementary trees of the grammar.
They arepart of the tree family associated with a verb.
Theirproperties are those of elementary trees, which must becomplete structures and have;, their gaps bounded in thesame tree they appear in, plus the properties given byadjunction and substitution, respectively.
If one consid-ers the principles that are used for designing such fam-ilies, these principles will correspond to syntactic rules,or 'transformations', in derivation-based theories of gram-mar.
Wh-question gives rise to the corresponding wh-elementary trees for each of the arguments of an el-ementary tree.
For the initial tre e el,  correspond-ing to the structure No V N1, we have for example :Ktt SSA ~:r SQ~*., s I /~I po~v q.~ "po vp qui N P. v I I\] I J " " "Jean alma el MI!IeThe different local constraints account for the asymetrybetween subject and object movement, o~5 can be an au-tonomous entence, whereas 0~4 is only an indirect ques-tion, and must have an auxiliary tree such as Ye sais Sadjoined to it.
Relative clauses are represented as auxil-iary trees rooted in NP which can then adjoin to the NPnode they modify.
Each elementary tree, correspondingto a declarative sentence, has thus corresponding auxiliarytrees rooted in NP.
Cleft-extraction is also represented byelementary trees.
To say that a tree with a wh-element,or a relative pronoun, must he an elementary tree, derivedfrom another elementary tree, provides us with strong pre-dictions: wh-movement is forced to apply only to elementspresent in an elementary tree, that is to arguments of ourbasic linguistic structures, and not to adjuncts.3*Thls word rhymes.
These words rhyme.
This word rhymeswith 'banana'.
*Jean is eating a future cake.
Jean is making afuture cake.Lexically dependent derivations comprise of middle,ergative, passive, or locative alternation.
They are rep-resented as features associated with the proper verb, andcorrespond to sets of trees to be added to the tree familyof the verb.
One should notice that the verbal item tobe marked is in fact a pair (lexical entry, argument struc-ture).
Foc example, regarder has, at least, four argumentstructure,% that is to say four entries :a) NPo r~:garde NPab) NPo rcgarde NP1 ( V-inf W)c) (NPo 4- So) regarde NP,d) NPo r~:garde que P (subj)Only regarder(a) has a passive.For mere surface reordering, we have the possibility ofdefining linear-precedence rules associated either with atree-family, or with a specific tree, as described in/ JoshisV.2 Tbe  t reatment  o f  complementc lausesThe representation of a verb taking a sententiM argu-ment can be viewed as the composition of two senten-tial structures.
The standard way of composing twostructures in a TAG is to have one adjoined to theother.
Cc,mplement clauses can thus be represented aselementary trees, with 'matrix' sentences being auxil-iary trees adjoined to them, or vice versa.
Following/Kroch and Joshi 85/ we prefer the former in order toaccount for wh-movement out of a complement clause)and to have unbounded ependencies falling out of theformalism.
No V $1, for example, is represented by :qua !tN P ~ NP VPI A I AN V 81 A PRO V Si i "  IBob po rise penle perlserfll is adjoined to a3 to produce:6") Bob pease qn?
Jean aime Marie 4./?2 and/73 are cases of recursive adjunction; 7 is derivedfrom/71 .... /?5 -~/72 --' ~3:7) Bob peuse que Paul pease que Max pease que Jean aimeMarie ~The wh-element and the corresponding gap are always inthe same basic structure.
Unbounded ependencies, whichhave always been a problem for generative grarrmaar, arethus represented in a straightforward way /Kroch, Joshi85/and /Kroch 86/ :  adjunction is not limited and doesnot destroy the gap-filler relations stated in the initialtrees.
For example:8) Quil penses-tu que Marie aime el ~is derived t'rom Qni~ que Marie aime e~ ?, which is one ofthe Wh-trees corresponding to the initial tree : qne Marieaime Jean) and penses-tu is adjoined to it.
The Wh-island4Bob tlfi~tks that Jean loves Mary5Bob thhtks that Paul thinks that Max thinks that John lovesMary6Who do you think that Marie loves ?constraint is no longer a constraint on movement, but be-comes a constraint on the structure of the elementary treesof the grammar.
No elementary tree with two wh-elementsis defined, and there is no means to derive 9 because thereis no elementary tree corresponding to 10:9) *Qui~ te demandes-tu comment Jean a rencontrg e~ ?10) *Quii comment Jean a rencontrd ei f TThis simple account fails short in the case of verb tak-ing two sentential arguments, uch as Jean pr~#re perdreMarie h perdre don ~me, because an auxiliary tree is con-strained to have exactly one foot-node, and cannot adjointo two initial trees at the same time.
We use for this pur-pose substitution as an alternative operation.
It replacesthe leaf node of an elementary tree with an initial, or alexical, tree (or a tree derived from an initial tree), pro-vided it has a root-node of the same category as that ofthe leaf-node of the elementary tree.Let us compare the linguistic properties derived fromsubstitution and adjunction respectively.
Substitutionrepresents embeddment as the insertion of a complementclause at a leaf node of the matrix clause.
Adjunctionviews it as the insertion of a matrix clause at any node ofa complement clause.
Constraints on the derivation areput in the matrix clause, when using substitution, and inthe complement clause when using adjunction.
Comple-ment clause which undergo wh-movement must be com-posed with their matrix clause by adjunction, because thematrix clause has to be inserted at an interior node (be-tween the Wh-element and the complementizer).
If oneuses substitution, on the other hand, insertion at an in-terior node will be blocked, and wh-movement out of thecomplement clause will be ruled out.
Both operations aretherefore complementary; in order to know whether to useone or the other, one has to ask whether wh-movement outof the embedded clause is possible or not.In the case of verbs taking both a sentential subjectand a sentential object, we use substitution to representthe subject clause.
This makes the well-known sentential-subject island constraint fall out from the formalism.
Wegenerate for example 11 and rule out 12:11) Qne Marie aiile en Gr&e ennnie Jean12) *Ofii qne Marie aiile el ennuie-t-ii Jean ?
sThe verb ennnyer is associated with the argument struc-ture So V NP1, which is represented asan initial tree 9.
Forverbs taking two sentential complements , wh-movementis normally allowed only out of one of the S-complements,usually the direct one.13) Jean dgduit que Marie a fail venir Bob de ce qu'onentend dn bruit, to14) Quil Jean d~duit-il que Marie a fail venir ei de ceqn'on entend du bruit ?15) * Quei Jean ddduit-ii que Marie ~ fail venir Bob dece qn'on entend ~ .qUsing adjunction for the clause subject o extraction andsubstitution for the other one rightly predicts the ungram-maticality of 15).z*Whoi do you wonder how Jean met ei ?8That Mary is going to Grece bothers Jean.9To account for the constraint in its full generality we substitutesententlal complements even in structures with no other sententialargument.l?John deduces that Mary invited Bob from hearing noise.on V NP1,L ~ ~ quo NP0$ VPI I / \ .J .\[ / '%...... " iT  i ,& i '3 The  s t ruc ture  of  NP  : suppor tverb  const ruct ionsModifiers of NP are treated like adjuncts in respect tosentential structures.
Adjectives, for example, are repre-sented as auxiliary trees rooted in N, and they adjoin tothe node they modify, either before or after the noun :16) Jean volt un camion bleu.17) Jean voil une jolie femme 11N NA AN A A NI Ibleu \]oll~16 and 17 are derived respectivdy from dean volt uncamion, and Jean voil une femme.
Adjectives producethen two types of structnres, one for their modifyingnouns, and one for their being arguments of a sentencestructure, such as NP0 V NPt A :18) ,lean lrouve Marie jo\[ie 1~They are listed twice in the lexicon, except for so-calledrelational adjectives, which can Olfly be modifiers :19) C'esl une ddcision minisl~rielle20) *Celle d&ision esl minist&ielle.
13Prepositional phrases modifying NP  receive the sametreatment, and Jean volt une femme sans lard TM is de-rived from the adjunction of sans fard to Jean volt unefe~7$me.Complements of nouns can be either prepositionalphrases or sentential complements.
They can be viewedas a node in the lexieal tree yielded by the head-noun (tobe substituted at any NP-node in any elementary tree).This is what we do for sentences such as :21) Jean ddsapprouve une enqu~le snr celle affaire 15The PP can only be moved together with the head noun itmodifies, and extraction is ruled out for it.
Because celteaffaire is an NP substituted in it, extraction is blocked inthe correct way.I I I I I I IJean desapprouve  une eequete  sur cette a f fMreThe derived constructions, uch as wh-movement or cleft-.a 1 Jean sees a blue truck.
Jean sees a pretty wom~m.12Jean finds Mary pretty.13Thls is a departmental derision.
*This decision is departmentMlg Jean sees a woman without make-up1s Jean disapproves ofan inqlfiry into this affair.extraction, are defined on the nodes present in the elemen-tary tree.
They are thus defined only for NP1 enquire,with or without its complement since the complement isoptional, hut not on the PP sur cette affaire.
We thus ruleout:22) *Ear quoi Jean d&approuve-t-il nne enquire ?23) *C'esl sur cetle affaire que Jean ddsapprouve unecnqu~le.But sentences can be found which are of the same sur-face structure as 21) but in which the PP exhibit differentsyntactic properties: it seems to have properties of a nom-inal and of a verbal complement as well:25) Jean fail une enqu~te sur celie affaire.
1625) C'est une enqu~te sur cetle affaire que Jean fail.26) ,gur quoi Jean fail-il une enquEle .~27) C'est sur celle affaire que Jean fail nne enquire.These constructions have been called 'support verb' sen-tences by/Gross  81/, because the verb gives only personand tense marking to the sentence ( with optionally someaspectual variat;on).
The noun is the predicative headof the sentence and subcategorizes the subject.
/Gross76/proposed to have two basic structures associated withthese constructions, although they are not ambiguous,and they are problems for most formalisms/Abeil l6 88a/.Itowever, they can be represented in a TAG in a naturalway with only one basic structure.
We consider the PP=node corresponding to sur celle affaire as belonging to theinitial tree, which makes it arJ argument of the sentenceas any verbal complement.
But it is as the same timedominated by the noun enquire, and this accounts for itsproperties as nominal complement.$NPO~, VP \[N V$ NPD N P NP2~I I I I Iun.
enquete sur cette s f fa l reThe difference between 22-23 and 26-27 comes from thefact that wh-movement and cleft-extraction are definedonly on the arguments (nodes) of elementary structuresrooted in S. In a2 both NP-1 and the PP are availablefor movement.
We are thus able to handle, in the gram.-mar, differences in syntactic properties concerning sen.-tenees which are exactly of the same string : (NP VP(NP (PP))).
The resulting trees are the same, but one isan initial tree, while the other one is derived .We also find support verb constructions with nouns tak-ing sentential complements of NP, and we find pairs similarto 21-24 :28)Jean ale projel d'aller h New-York29)Jean critique le projet d'aller h New-York.
r\[In 28, the S-node corresponding to the sentential comple-ment of NP is part of the elementary tree, ,and the stringJean a le  projet de S' is represented as an auxiliary tree.
:In 29, there is only one NP-node as direct complement of16Jean makes aal inquiry into this affair.17Jean has a plan to go to New York/John opposes a plan to g~to New Ybrk10critique, aud the complex NP is treated as a lexical tree,the sententlcd complenrent being substituted in it, beforeinsertion in the complete sentence.
Thus, extraction ismade possible for 28 and not in 29:30) 04 dean a-t-il ie projet d'aller ?31) *Off a~an crilique-t-il le projet d'atler ?To represent support verb constructions with sententialcomplements as auxiliary trees accounts for unboundeddependencies:3f?)
Oeq as&a l'impression que Jean nous a donnd l'iddede \]hire la proposition ... d'aller ei ?
~sWe cone, taler all nouns taking complements aa hav-ing corresponding Support verbs that they subcategorize.They thus yield a tree family, just as verbs, which com-prises of the trees {br the support verb construction, and ofthe complex NP h'xical tree as well, which correspond tonon-light verb constructions.
So, a predicative noun willnot be liste:l twice.
Verbs, on the other hand, will be listedtwice, as  p:=:edicate for their 'plain' use, and as argumentsfor their support w;rb use, except for a few verbs whichappear to be always support verbs : pratiquer, pew6treror commet!re.Such a representation can be extended to Verb~Adj-PPconstructions, uch as:33) Jean e<;t contenl de son nouveau chapeau.34) Jean e:;t content que tout le monde le rega'lde.
19They are considered as S-initial trees yielded by the pred-icative adjective, and the node for complement, out ofwhich extraction is possible, is present in it.
Adjectivestaldng complements produce then three kinds of tree struc-ture (sentential, attributive, modifying).We thus extend the set of elementary trees of our gram--mar to the support verb constructions.
They are projee-iiona of tile noun, or tile adjective, in the lexicon, and add40 basic ~3trnctures in our grammar.4 The adjunct;ion of adverbsAdverbs can be :-- 'lexical' ~Ldverbs : souvent, rarement?
PP : a h',~it heures-.
NP : ee j o,~r.-la- subordinate clauses : pendant que Jean lit le journal.
2?Lexic~d adw:rbs, PP introduced by prepositions, andsubordinate clauseq iutrodnced by conjunctions, are repre-sented by/;he proper auxiliary tree(s) in the lexicon.
Theprepositional adverbs are listed under the value of theirpreposi~;ion; the bare-NP adverbs under that of their noun,and are considered cases of compound adverbs (see sec-tion 5).
The subordinating conjunctions are represented>," auxilimy trees rooted in S, in which sentential trees(derived ol init;a/) m'e substituted :16Wherel to you.
have ~he impression that Jean gave us the idea~,o ma.ke the snggestion....to g to ei ?\]g Jean it; t.appy about his new hat.
Jean is happy that everybodyad~,ir~:s hin~?ot'iacn, stddom/ut right o'clod(/ that day/while Jean is readingthe paperf/ ,oCo.
l S$ / T V NPl$/N  I I ponaant quu le JournalThe use of substitution, which forces the insertion of asentential structure to take place at its root-node, pre-dicts that extraction is ruled out out of an adjunct:35) Marie regarde la tdld pendant que Jean lit le journal.36) :~Qui 'est ce que Marie regarde la tdld pendant que Jeanlit ei 721Adverbials are represented as auxiliary trees usuallyrooted in S or in VP.
Leaving aside the case of negation,which is a discontinuous constituent, corresponding to atree rooted in V (because of the word-order), we considermost the adverbs to be rooted in S, in order to have acorrespondence with such Wh-trees as 56 and/?7 , whichhave to be rooted in S :.&7Wh I S Adv Wh~ S AdvJ I I IOtJ8 nd E I Ob elAlthough the formalism rules out extraction out of ad-juncts /Kroch 86/, it does not rule out wh-movement ofthe adverbial as a whole.
It further predicts that only S-rooted adverbials give rise to wh-question: ~z37) Jean a ddplorg la desh'uction de Beirouth Est le ~ Juin.37 is analyzed as being ambiguous, between an S- and anNP- attachment of the adverbial.
But the fronted QuandJean a4-il d@lor( la destruction de Beirouth t?
:;1 ?
is cor..rectly disambiguated, because quand can only be adjoinedto S.'l'he various positions of an adverb in a string, with thesame attachment, is handled by linear precedence rulesassociated with the tree-structure it adjoins into /aoshi8r/.For adverbs which are obligatory in a sentence, suchas Jean va bien.
23, there are two possibilities: eitherto put an obligatory adjunetion constraint in a structuresuch as Jean va, or to treat the adverb as an argumentof the elementary tree.
We choose the latter, in order tomaintain our claim that elementary trees correspond tosemantic, as well as syntactic units.5 The representat ion of idiomsBecause in a TAG the linguistic unit is the sentence, notthe word, entries comprising of several words can easilybe defined.
Compound phrases, which can be discontinu-ous constituents, are assigned a head that is usually eitherthe item of the same category as the whole, or the mostsignificant item.
The head produces the subtree corre-21Marie is watching TV while Jean is reading the paper.
*Whatis Mary watching TV while Jean is reading ei ?22Jea~l deplored the destruction ofEast Beirut on June, 4th23Jean is doing fine.11sp0nding to the compound phrase, which will itself yielda tree-family in the case of a compound predicate (e.g.
acompound verb).The internal structure of Sentential idioms is expandedmore than that of 'free' sentences.
For example, the NPsubject is usually noted as an NP-node, open for substi-tution; if part of it is frozen, the corresponding node (Dor N) is directly in the basic tree, and its lexical valueis subcategorized by the verb.
The heads for sententialidioms are the same as for 'free' sentences.
For example,Jean voit un canard, which is a free sentence, is a tree ofdepth 1 : (NP (V NP)), whereas Jean chasse le canard,with the meaning of to hunt, has a frozen verb-determinercombination, and is represented by a tree of depth 2 : (NP(V (D N))).
The verb chasserproduces al o a tree of depth1, for its occurrence in free sentences, with the meaningof l0 chase.
The parser will give two analyses, one corre-sponding to the idiomatic sense, the other to the literateinterpretation.As for compound categories, we view basic categoriesas nodes which can be expanded if needed.
If it is a sim-ple category, it will be treated as a preterminal, if it is acompound one, its internal structure will be specified.
Tohave the precise internal structure is important in the caseof idioms allowing some variations, or insertion.
We thushave a unified representation for the complex determin-ers la majorit~ de and la grande majo~td e : the adjec-tive grande is adjoined to the noun majorild as to any N..4  /-,,|11 N PPAraliorlte P NP,LI jgrande deConclusionChoosing the TAG formalism for parsing French has bothcomputational nd linguistic advantages.
The linguistic:stipulations are minimized and the general organizationof the grammar is simplified: all structures are stated interms of surface structures, and there is a direct matchingbetween the lexical information and the tree structures.The implementation of such a grammar leads to a newparsing strategy developed in/Schabes, Abefll6, Joshi 88/.
iWe have shown that TAG formalism is suited for build-ing a sizable grammar for a natural anguage, and further-more it allows one to state more local dependencies thanother formalisms.
We show that constraints on extractionout of complement clauses and syntactic properties of sup-port verb' constructions are handled in a natural way.
Weare using our current approach to build a TAG grammarfor English along the same lines.The overall size of the French grammar amounts to 80basic structures (tree-families), which correspond to sim-ple verbs (12), verbs with sentential complements (28)support verb-noun combinations (20), and support verb-adjective combinations (20).
An average tree-family com-prises of 15 trees, and the whole size of the grammar is:roughly 1200 trees.
One should notice that what cruciallymatters is the number of tree-families, which is closed,,if we have been exhaustive.
We have not incorporatedyet pronominalization and coordination, the two majorremaining phenomena.
We have added selectional restrict.tions features to each predicate.
We know how to limit thefuture growth of the grammar: if the deriwtion we wantto add amounts to word-reordering, it is stated by addinga rule to the set of linear precedence rules associated ei-ther to the tree-family, or to one of the trees/Joshi 87/.If it is a lexical rule, a feature will be added to the pred-icative entries.
In both cases, the size of the tree-databaseremains unchanged.
If it is a syntactic rule, it adds theproper number of trees to at most each tree-family, so themultiplying factor is 80 in the worst case.Our grammar has been implemented in an Earley-typeparser as defined in /Schabes and Joshi 1988/, and usesa dictionary which comprises of more than 4000 lexicalitems, that are the most common for French.ReferencesA.
Abeilld (a), "Light Verb Constructions and Extraction outof NP in Tree-Adjoining Grammar", in Papers o\] the ~4th Re-gional Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society, 1988.A.
Abeill6 (b), "A French Tree Adjoining Grammar", Tech-nical Report, Univ.
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 1988.J.P.
Boons, A. Gnillet, C. Leel~re,La Structure des PhrasesSimples en Fransais : Constructions Intransitives, Droz,Gen~ve, 1976.J.P.
Boons, A. Guillet, C. Lecl~re,La Structure des PhrasesSimples en Fran~ais : Classes de Constructions Transitives,Rapport de Recherche du LADL, Univ.
Paris VII, 1976.M.
Gross, "Sur quelques groupes nominaux complexes',, inMdthodes en Grammaire Fran#aise, J.C. Chevalier et M. Gross(eds), Klincksieck, 1976.M.
Gross, Mgthodes en Syntaxe, Paxis, Hermann, 1975.M.
Gross, "Les bases empirlqnes de la notion de pr6dicats6ma3atique', Langages, n?63, Laxonsse, Paris, 1981.M.
Gross, "Les limites entre phrases libres, phrases fig~es etphrases ~ verbe support, Langages, Laxousse, Paris, 1988.A.
Joshi, "How much Context-Sensitivity is necessary forchaxacterizing Structural Descriptions: Tree Adjoining Gram-nlaxs", in D. Dowty et al eds, Natural Language Processing:iPsyeholinguistie, Computational nd Theoretical Perspectives,New-York, Cambridge University Press, 1985.A.
Joshi, L. Levy, M. Takahashi, "Tree Adjunct Grammars",Journal of the Computer and System Sciences, 10:1, pp.136-163, 1975.A.
Joshi, "Word-order variation in Natural Language Gen-eration", in AAAI 87, Sixth National Con\]erenee onArtificialIntelligence, pp 550-555, Seattle, July 1987.A.
Kroch, "Unbounded Dependencies and Subja~ency in aTree Adjoining Grammar", in The Mathematics o~ Language,New-York, Benjaxnins.1986A.
Kroch, A. Joshi, "Some Aspects of the Linguistic Rele~vance of Tree Adjoining Grammar", in Technical Report CI585.18, University of Pennsylvania, 1985.Y.
Schabes, A. Abefll6, A.Joshi, "Parsing Strategies with'LexicMized' Grammars: Application to Tree Adjoining Gram-mars", in Proceedings of the l~th International Conference onComputational Linguistics, Budapest, 1988.Y.
Sch~bes, A. Joshl, "An Earley-type Parsing Algorithmfor Tree Adjoining Grammars", in Proceedings ACL'88, 1988.K.Vij~y-Shanker, A Study of Tree-Adjoining-Grammars,PhD Thesis, University of Pennsylvaaaia, Philadelphia, 1987.12
