Default Logic, Natural Language andGeneralized QuantifiersPat r i ck  Sa in t -D iz ie r1RISA-INRIA, CAMPUS de BEAULIEU, 35042 RENNES -Cedex FRANCEAbstractTha use of default logic to represent various linguisticconstru,'tions i explored in this paper.
Default logic isthen integrated into a theory of natural anguage seman-flee, namely Generalized Quantifiers.
Finally, propertieeof haterest to the AI  community such as the characteri-zation of troth peraietence and come inferential patternsare emphasized.1 In t roduct ionDefault logic \[Reiter 80\] is now commonly used in artificial in-telligence systems and turns out to be one of the major researchfields in knowledge representation.
One of the first motivationsof default logic wan to give a more accurate semantic represemtation to natural anguage statements of the form:Birds fl~:Most  birds fly.or~ arguably:Typicall2o; birds lty~The idea was to define a representation that permits ex~ceptions to be coherent togeLher with a general statement orlaw.
-Very soon this linguistic motivation becanm somewhat ne-gh;cted, yielding the way to theoretical investigations in non~monotonic reasoning and to the elaboration of automatic the~orem prover,.
For a good introduction see \[Besnard 89\].
Theonly works we are aware of in natural anguage processing arethe use of default logic to solve anaphoras \[Dunin-Keplitz 84\],to model dialogs \[Joshi et al 87\] and to derive presuppositionsfrom sentences \[Mercer 88\].In this contribution, we come back to the very first moti~ration of default logic and explore its integration i to naturallanguage semantics, as introduced in \[Saint-Dizier 87\].
Moreprecisely, we propose an integration of default logic into Gent.eralized Quontifiers framework \[Barwise and Cooper 81\].
Thisleads us to reformulate default logic within the framework ofset theory defined on universes.
We first propose several typesof linguistic expressions for which a representation by a defaultrule turns out to be relevant.
Next, we present some basicproperties about truth persistence of statements representedby default logic and, finally, we propose several inferential pat~terns which permit o derive new default rules on the one handand new linguistic expressions on the other hand.2 Default logic for natural  languagesemantlcs2.1  In t roduct ion  to  de fau l t  l og icA default rule has the following general form:P : RCThe meaning of this deduction rule is that given x such that.P is true, if there are no contradiction to R being true in thecurrent world, then infer C. P is called the prerequisite and Cis the conclusion.
R is a condition which has to be coherentwith the current world.Such a rule can be used to represent general laws or state-ments uch as:Most ravens are black.orAll  ravens are black.as well as contingent facts such as:Most lights are on.The first sentence above is represented as:raven(X) : black(X)black(X)(variables are represented by capital etters)The difference between general awn and contingent state--ments is however fundanmntal but it cannot be capturedstraightforwardly within default logic.
Indeed, in the first ex-ample, blackness i taken as a property inherent to ravens, notcompletely based on observation but also on induction.
Defaultlogic permits this property to remain inherent o ravens evenif there are exceptions.
The second sentence is strictly basedon observation and is valid only on a certain time interval tat a given location 1.
The distinction between contingent factsand general laws can however be context-dependent.
Supposethe above sentence is stated in the context of a factory work~ing 24 hours every day then the fact that lights are on can beinterpreted as a law imposed, for instance, for security reasons,There is another difference: the first sentence may be trueeven if there are no ravens in the current world whereas thesecond sentence requires a non-empty denotation for the partof noun phrase following most, in other terms, the presence inour example of at least two lights.Default logic permits to assign a property (C) to a preciseindividual in a given world, modulo some coherence conditions(R).
This can be contrasted with filzzy and probabilistic 10g.=ics where a set of individuals is characterized as a whole by aproperty.
Thus, no property can be deduced for a given indi.-viduM in this set with a full degree of certainty.
Our choiceof default logic is then motivated by the need of being able tomake inferences about a precise individual and to provide pre-cise responses.
This does not exclude fuzzy and probabilistielogics, but it simply has different motivations and uses.555Using default logic also permits to skip over some recalci-trant representational problems of fuzzy logic, but, on the otherhand, it cannot ake into account slight differences between, forexample:Most birds fly Versus Almost all birds tty.A majority of birds fly versus A high majority of birds Ay.The question however is to know what is the real nature ofthe difference between those statements and if it is more thana connotative meaning.At a formal level, it turns out that additional inferentialpatterns can be formulated when using default reasoning.
Fur-thermore, due to a certain stability, a default rule used in asemantic representation f a sentence confers to this represen-tation useful properties~in a knowledge base context such as:conservativity, extensibility and some forms of monotonicity.Because of their generality and stability, default rules can alsoplay a prominent role to restore consistency in knowledge bases.2 .2  C lasses  o f  words  and  const ruc t ions  rep-resented  by  de fau l t  l og icIn a sentence, a wide diversity of types of words and lin-guistic constructions confer a certain degree of generality (ei-ther contingent or permanent) to the statement in which theyare included.
In this class fall words like context-dependentdeterminers, qnantiflcational dverbs, propositional adjectivesand adverbs and some very specific adjectives (worse, perfect,ideal,...).
Constructions like superlatives and some agentlesspassive constructions also belong to this class.
It turns out thatthese words or constructions can be represented in a numberof contexts with a greater precision and adequacy by defaultlogic.
We now briefly examine some simple examples.2.2.1 Context -dependent  determinersDeterminers like: most, many, several, few and probably de-terminers like: a majority when they have a universal meaningcan be represented by default logic:Many workers have a car.John knows few bird names.The delegates of most workers have arrived.Now, a majority o?
students have a car.Notice the variety of syntactic positions in which those de-terminers can appear.
Such determiners can also be includedinto propositional statements:John believes that few birds can fly.Determiners introducing some generic statements also fallin this category:A car has four wheels.which is equivalent to:Most cars have four wheels.However, a generic statement like:A car has at least one door.should rather be universally quantified.A context-dependent de erminer in a situation where it hasa relative meaning cannot in general be represented by defaultlogic.
By relative meaning, we mean, for example, sentenceswhere the context-dependent determiner is in the scope of aquantification i troducing distributivity:The owners of several cars pay an additional tax.Relative meaning can also be introduced by an implicit re-striction on the set of instances refered to, as in:John met many people to-day.~her~ the set of people that John can meet in a day isimp~'ieit~y r~stricted to a (small) subset of all the people in thecurxent world.The latter example shows that default logic cannot be usedto represent determiners where the set of elements refered toby the noun phrase following that determiner is restricted bya constituent outside that noun phrase.
Futhermore, th~tele-ment introducing the restriction can be explicit (e.g.
t~ lay)or implicit as in:John ate many apples.where the set of apples in which John ate many apples canbe implicitlyrestricted bythe context (e.g.
in the basked, in thefrig...) or by the semantics of the verb to eat (a human cannoteat more than a certain quantity of food per day).
An informalcriterion to determine whether a determiner can be representedby default logic is to substitute all or no respectively for most,many.., and few and to check if it is possible to build a coherentworld from the cnrent world with less exceptions (i.e.
a moreuniform world as in \[Delgrande 87\]) so that the universallyquantified statement is true.
If there is such a world then theoriginal determiner can be represented by a default rule.For example, consider the sentence:John met many people to-day.uttered in a world where John is the manager of a company,people refers to the staff of the company and John met every-body in the company except n people (n being small).
If wesubstitute all for many, we obtain the sentence:John met al people to-day.and if we can build a consistent world W' from W whereJohn met those n people in addition to the others then manycan be represented by a default rule.If John is a politician and people refers to the people whowant to vote for him (suppose this number is large), then it isnot possible to consistently build a world in which John metevery people in a single day, in particular if those people arescattered throughout he whole country.
In this latter case,many cannot be represented by a default rule.2.2.2 Quant i f lcat iona\]  adverbsAdverbs introducing a form of universality or contributing toit can originate a default logic based representation:John sings rarely.Mary is incidentally (very rarely) on time.John meets Sue almost every day.John often travels by bus rather than by subway in Paris.For default logic to be used, the concept or the quality mod-ified by the adverb has to be countable and quantifiable.
Thefirst example can be paraphrased as:At most times t (or preferably, on most time intervals t),by default John does not sing.The representation f sentence 2 requires the use of eventsand is far more complex.
Roughly speaking, we can paraphrasethis sentence by:In most eases when Mary has something to do, she does itlater than the scheduled time for this work.This can be formulated in an equiwlent way in terms of de-fault rule.
If el  is the event associated with the scheduled timefor the beginning of the activity and if e2 is the event of Marybeginning to do this activity, then if there is no contradictionwith e2 > el then infer that e2 > el.Sentence 3 requires events to be associated with, for exam-ple, a date and a duration.
It can be paraphrased by:I f  it is not inconsistent that John meets Sue to-day (e.g.John is in the same location as Sue, etc...), then infer thatthere is a time interwl t during which John meets Sue.Various factors llke temporal factors can restrict he scopeof a default:From 8 to 10 am, Mary is very rarely in her omce.556but they still have a universal meaning over that restricteddomain.2.2.3 Ad ject ivesAdjectives in the superlative, in particular when the statementis not absolutely incompatible with a small number of excep-tions can be represented by a default rule.
This permits toavoid a too strong and definitive formulation.
Consider:The Mon~-Blanc is (one of) the highest mountains.Represe:fl;ing this sentence by default logic permits:s to assume that a mountain whose elevation is unknownis lower than the Moat-Blanc,s to accept without introducing inconsistencies that thereare mountains with an elevation explicitly known andgreater than the Mont-Blanc elevation.This approach is particularly relevant for superlatives: it turnsout indeed that most superlatives are not completely universal.They are often true in a coherent subset of the current world.In the same range of ideas, adjectives such as ideal, worse ofperfect turn out to be, in most contexts, implicit superlativesranging over several properties.
In:Jim is the ideal hiker.idea\] couht mean that J im has most of the qualities of a hikerin something close to the superlative.
Thus, such a sentence canbe represented by a conjunction of properties in the superlative,each of them being separately represented by a default rule.The range of properties refered to by adjectives llke ideal orworse can be restricted (or a specific property can be empha-sized) as in:Mary is the worse person to work with: she is (almost) neveron time.where the quality refered to is to be never on time.
In thiscase, the representation becomes much simpler.2.2.4 Agent less  pass ive const ruct ionsAgentless passive constructions ofverbs like to admire, to hate,to neglect or ~o laugth at, in some contexts lend very well them-selves to a representation with defaults.
For example, a sen-tence like:Mary is admired.can be paraphrased by:Most persons who know Mary admire her.2.2.5 P ropos i t iona l  adverbs  and  ad ject ivesAdverbs and adjectives uch as probable, likely, unlikely andcertainly in some contexts modify the certainty of a statement,as in the sentence:It is unlikely that computer science students know baroquemusic composers.These adverbs and adjectives are basically interpreted withan intensional meaning.
However, representing them by defaultlogic is also very relevant if we do not want to stress only onthe likelihood of the statement but if we also want to have amore precise reading, for example if we want to state that:I f  X is a computer science student and if it is not consistentto say that X does not know any baroque music composer theninfer that X does not know any baroque music composer.An interesting problem at this level would be to investigatethe possibility of using default reasoning paired with intension-ality.
Using possible world semantics could be a mean to solvethis problem, but this is still unclear to us.3 Integrat ing default  logic into Gen-eral ized QuantiflersIn the examples we have given above, we have restricted ourattention to the most straightforward uses of default logic.
Inparticular, the expressions or concepts used are:?
completely defined (no pronominal references, ...),?
extensional,?
discrete (no continuous uses as in "a lot of snow").None of these restrictions are, however, essential.
Another moreimportant restriction is that universes are supposed to be finiteat each time t, in order to make our notations below computa-tionally tractable.3 .1  Genera l i zed  quant i f ie rsTo deal with semantic representations, we adopt the spirit ofthe Generalized Quantifiers framework \[Barwise and Cooper81\].
This approach is, in fact, of much interest because it isquite close to current research in knowledge bases.
A general-ized quantifier Q denotes a relation among sets of entities in aworld W. It is noted as:QABwhere A and B are linguistic expressions or their set-theoretic equivalents.
For example:All ravens are blackis noted as:AU (ravens) (are black).All establishes a relation between the set of ravens and theset of entities which are black.
Let us note the denotationof A in world W (H A \]lw ) A' and that of B ( I\[ 13 \]\[w),B'.
Then, every generalized quantifier Q can be representedby a corresponding numerical relation RQ \[Van Benthem 86\],\[Vesterstahl 84,85\] with the following definition:Q A B ~ R~(I A' - B' I, IA'  rl B'  I).In Generalized Quantifiers, determiners are studied in aprincipled way by looking at their semantic properties.
Thisstudy appears to have enough logical foundations to motiw~.tctheoretical investigations.
Generalized Quantifiers also turnout not to be limited to representing determiners but extendsto the semantics of other structures uch as conditionals \[VanBenthem 86\].We now turn to informally introduce default logic into theGeneralized Quantifiers framework.
A default rule is basicallyused to conclude a formula C for a given entity e, satisfying aprerequisite P, modulo R, However, it is also possible to charac-terize the set E of elements e satisfying P and for which C canbe concluded modulo the coherence control on 1L If we view adefault rule as a ternary relation:by-def P R (7.or, simply as a binary relation since, in our context, R andC are identical:by-def P C.then \[\[ P \]lw and I\[ C \]\[w can be defined and the aboverelation is a relation among sets of individuals over world Win a way similar Vo the determiners accounted for within theGeneralized Quantiflers framework.
In addition, a third setshould be mentioned, which is the set of exceptions:, = l IP  ^ - ,C \ ] lw .which introduces another interesting type of relation, out ofthe scope of the present contribution.5573.2  Some examplesAs an illustration, we now present possible representationsfor some of the examples given above in the previous ection.Those representations have a knowhdge-base orientation ratherthan a pure formal semantics one.
(a) Many workers have a car.is represented by:by-def(worker(X),car(Y) A to-have(X,Y)).
(b) John knows few bird names.is represented by:by-def(bird(Y) A name-of(X,Y),-1 to-know(john, name-of(X,Y)).
(c) John sings rarely.is represented by:by-clef(time(T), ~ to-sing(john,T)).T is a precise time or, preferably, a time interval.
(d) John meets Sue almost every day.is represented as follows:by-def(day(D),(3 H1,H2, H2 > H1,to-meet (john,sue,time(D,H1,H2)))).
(e) John often travels by bus rather than by subway.is represented by:by-def((bus(X) A subway(Y) A to-travel(john,Z) ^ ((Z=X)v (z=Y))), z=x ).This logical representation means that if John travels byZ which can be either a bus or a subway (X or Y), then, bydefault, John travels by bus (i.e.
by X).
(f) The Mont-Blane is one Of the highest mountains.is represented as follows:by-def((mountain(X) A -,(X = mont-blanc) A eleva-tion(X,Y) A elevation(mont-blanc,M)), Y < M ).
(g) Mary is admired.is represented by:by-def(to-know (X,mary),to-admire(X,mary)).We could also add that X has the ability to admire.4 Stab i l i ty  o f  s ta tements  representedby defau l t  ru lesBy stability of a statement, we mean the characterization ofconditions under which a statement remains true when the cur-rent world is updated.
In our framework, stability means thecharacterization f the conditions under which the set of ele-ments x that satisfy by-def A B remains unchanged, i.e.
anydeduction made from that default rule for any individual x be-fore the updating remains true after the updating.Representations with defaults appear to have slightly differ-ent properties than their more classical counterparts.
Amongthose properties, we now present some of those which are ofmuch interest o knowledge representation systems.
The prop-erties listed below are central to the field of Generalized Quan-tifiers.4 .1  Conservat iv i tyFor all A, B being linguistic expressions (or their set-theoretlcequivalents):by-def A B ~ by-def A (.4 A B) (noted CONS)The equivalence is straightforward in virtue of the very na-ture of the prerequisite A.4.2  Extens ionLet us first introduce the notion of irrelevance.
The idea isthat propositions irrelevant to a default statement should have55Bno consequence on any inference involving that statement.
Thisidea was developped by the philosophical community and, morerecently by \[Delgrande 87\].
In our framework, if we considerthe statement: by-defA B, then, intuitively, C is irrelevant forthis statement if knowing C does not alter the set of individualsfor Which that statement holds.
We differenciate right and leftirrelevance:Let W, W' and W" be worlds defined on universe U.Let A, B and C be linguistic expressions or their set-theoretic equivalents.
We consider the statement by-def A B .Then we have the following properties:- left-irrelevance:C is left-irrelevant iff: W '  = W U {C} thenI\[ A \]lw = I\[ A \]lw'.- right-irrelevance:Let W" = W U {C'}, then C' is right-irrelevant iff:{ ?
~ w I co~si~t~,~tw(B(..~..))) =( y ~ w"  I co~te , , tw .
(B( .
.y .
. )
)  }.consistentw(S) is a predicate which is true if in world Wthe statement S is consistent.If W contains disjunctions of formulae, then it is neces-sary to consider all maximal extensions E of W to define right-irrelevance.
The following condition has to be true:For all E, maximal extension of W such that:(1) E '=EU {C }.
(2) E is consistent in W.(3) { x c E lco~siae~t~(n(..~..)) } ={ y ~ E'I  consistentw,BC..tl..)) }.Then, we say that C is irrelevant o by-def A B if it isboth left and right irrelevant.
Then the property of extensionfollows:For all A, B, for all W, W' such that W' is an extension ofW where only irrelevant statements to by-def A B have beenadded, then:by - defw A B ~ by - defw, A B.
(noted EXT).4 .3  Monoton ic i tyFor all A, B, W, W' :(a) Let W' be an extension of W such that W N W' is aset of left-irrelevant s atements then:by-  defw, A B :=?.
by -  defw A B (downward left-monotonicity, noted ~MON ).
(b) Let W" be an extension of W such that W N W n is aset of right irrelevant statements hen:by - defw, A B ==~ by - defw A B (downward right-monotonicity, noted MON.L ).Not surprisingly (default logic is a non-monotonic logic),upward monotonicity does not hold in general.5 I n fe rent ia l  pat ternsSome inferential patterns within Generalized Quantifiers\[Vesterstahl 84,85\], \[Van Benthem 86\] also hold, with somerestrictions, for default logic.
Some additional patterns canbe formulated, given the specificities of default logic.
Thesepatterns permit to derive new rules from previous ones andto generate new linguistic expressions.
Here are some simple,basic inferential patterns:5 .1  Rest r i c ted  t rans i t i v i tyFor all A, B, C linguistic expressions:?
(by-def A (is B)) A ((all B) C) :=~ (hy-def A C).
(is B), (all B), ... are recta-linguistic expressions corre-sponding to well-formed linguistic expressions explicitly con-taining the verb to be or the determiner all.
This inferentialpattern can be used, for instance, to deduce (2) from (1):(1) Most animals are mammals and All mammals feed theirbabies.
(2) Most animals feed their babies.via the following instanciation of the pattern:by-def(an~mal(A),mammal(A)) A (ali(A'),nmmmal(A') A(baby-of(B,A') A to-fecd(A',B))) ==~by-def(an2mai(A), baby-of(B,A) A to-feed(A,B)).Notice that A' is bound to A in the consequent, because thetwo formulae are merged.The denotation of B need not be included in the denotationof A.
For example:Most workers are union members and All union membersare on strike entail: Mast workers are on strike.Here is another estricted transitivity pattern:?
(by-def X (is B)) A ((no B) C) ~ (by-clef A -I C).or, equivalently:by-def(A (is B)) A ((all B), - C) ~ by-def A -i C.Thus, (4) can de deduced from (3):(3) Most animals are mammals and No mammal can t/y.
(4) Most animals cannot fly.Notice that in the patterns already stated, the determiner atthe origin of the default remains unchanged in the conclusion.Finally, here is the last restricted transitivity pattern:?
((all A) (are B)) A (by-def B C) ==~ (by-def A C).Then, for example:(5) All raammals are animals and Most animals are vege-tarians entails (6) Most mammals are vegetarians.This latter pattern is however weaker than the previousones.
Nothing, indeed, excludes that there exist models M~ inwhich no n~mnnals are vegetarians since in the premises noth-ing is said about the intersection of the set of mammals andthe set of vegetarians.
If the intersection is empty, then thedefault rule will simply be never applied.
In the premises ofthe three tlrst inferential patterns, there is a guarantee thatthe intersection of \[\[ A \]lle and I\[ C \]lw is not empty, providedthat I\[ A \]Iv/, \[\[ B \]lw and \[\[ C \]lie are non-empty sets.
As aconsequence, this latter inferential pattern is valid but its corre-sponding paraphrase cannot be directly derived.
For example,for (6} we could have:(6a) Most mammals are vegetarians.
(6b) Several mammals are vegetarians.
(6c) Some mammals are vegetarians.The determiner some is more neutral and will be preferedin this type of situation.5.2  Distr lbut iv i tyIf B and C are independent properties then:(hy-def A (B A C) ==~ (by-def A B) A (by-def A C)(by.-def A B)==~ (by-clef A C).Thus, for example:Most workers own a car and are married entails:Most workers own a car and Most workers are married.The reverse pattern:(by-def A B) A (by-defX' C) ~ by-def A (B A C)where A' is a copy of A with different variables, also holdsbut it is somewhat weaker in the sense that the denotation ofB A C ill W is included in the denotation of B in W andin that of C in W. Thus, the same remark as for the previouspattern holds: the determiner at the origin of the default rulein the pre~rdses i not preserved and another context-dependentdeterminer can be more appropriate, depending on how muchthe default has been weaken, i.e.
on how much the number ofexceptions to the default rule has increased.
This number ischaracterized by the cardinal of the following set:(l\[ A ^ B\]Iw n I\[B\]lw) u (1\[ A A C \]lw n lie\]lie).In this case, we also adopt the determiner some as a neutralrepresentation.5.3  Contrapos i t ionFor all linguistic expressions A, B and C such thatllAllw c Iic\]l*, llBllie c licllw, then:by-def A B ==Y by-clef (C A ~ B) (C A -- A).For example:(7) Most workers are union members entails:(8) Most people who are not union members are people whoare not workers.If (3 is the set of all entities of the current world W thencontraposition permits to express that:by-def A B ~ by-def ~B -~A .
(Extended contraposition).This property goes beyond a theorem given in \[van Eijck84\] which states that:A quantifier Q observes contrapasition iff Q is of the form:'at most k A are not B'.in the sense that (1) k is not implicitly intended to be quitesmall (with respect o the size of the world) and (2) k can benull.
In fact, the value of k turns out to be irrelevant sinceeach time a default rule is used a test of coherence is made ona formula.5.4  CosymmetryAs shown in \[van Eijck 84\], if C = B, then we have the propertyof cosymmetry:by-def A (A A -~ B) ==~ by-def B (B A -~ A).Furthermore, since reflexivity holds for all A:by-def A Awe have:by-def A B ?=e~ by-def A ( A A B ).Suppose that: B = -1 B', then:by-def A B ~ by-def A ( A A -~ B' )and, finally, from this result and the definition of cosymme-try, we have:by-def A -~ B ~ by-def B -~ A.Notice that, due to symmetry of formulae, there is an equiv-alence instead of an implication.For example:(8) Most teenagers are not married is logically equivalent to(9) Most married people are not teenagers..This latter result can also be used to build passive formsfrom their affirmative counterparts.5.5  Subal ternacyFrom complex relations holding between different classes of de-terminers, the property of subalternaey has emerged and turnsout to be relevant for statements represented by default logic.This property states that:For all A, B, by-def A B ==~ ~ by-def A (A A -1 B).For the same reasons as above, this expression can be sim-plified and becomes:by-def A B ~ -~ by-def A -~ B.
(10) Most birds fly entails(11) It is false that most birds cannot fly.or, using eontrapasition and if few is the opposite of most:(12) Few birds does not fly.5596 EpilogueDefault logic permits to represent with a greater accuracy andrelevance several types of words and constructions.
We haveproposed here to integrate it into the formal framework of Gen-eralized Quantifiers.
Default logic also exhibits a number ofparticular properties at the level of the characterization of thetruth persistence of a statement represented by default logicin a knowledge base being updated.
Next, new and revisedinferential patterns are introduced and illustrated.
These pat-terns permit o derive new default rules and to construct newlinguistic expressions from previous ones.The forthcoming works include:(1) The extension and investigation f those linguistic ex-pressions that can be represented bydefault logic.
(2) A formal characterization of contextual situations wheredefault logic can (or must) be used, permitting thus the spec-ification of contextual semantic ompositional rules, coherentwith the representation defined in \[saint-Dizier 86\].
(3) The establishment of a link with the logic of presuppo-sitions.
(4) The integration ofdefault logic into other formal theo-ries of natural language semantics, inparticular into the frame-work of Situations Semantics \[Barwise and Perry 83\].tics in Logic Programming, journal of Logic Programming, Vol4, Dec. 1986.Saint-Dizier, P., Default Logic for Natural Language, Logicand Linguistics Conference, Stanford, 1987.Vesterstahl, D., Logical Constants in Quantifier Languages,Linguistics and Philosophy, Vol 8-4, 1985.VesterstLhl, D., Some Results on Quantifiers, Notre DameJournal of Formal Logic, Vol.
25-2, 1984.Acknowledgements I am very grateful to PhilippeBesnard, Mario Borillo and Jim Delgrande for their useful com-ments on this work.
I thank also Dag Vesterstahl for providingme several of his publications mentioned below.
This work wassupported by the French INRIA and the PRC CNRS Commu-nication Homme-machine, both civilian public institutions.ReferencesBarwise, J., Cooper, R., Generalized Quantiflers and Natu-ral Language, Linguistics and Philosophy, 4, 159-219, 1981.Barwise, J., Perry, J., Situations and Attitudes, MIT Press,1983.Besnard, P., An introduction to Defanlt Logic, Symboliccomputation series, Springer-Verlag, 1989.Van Benthem, J., Essays in Logical Semantics, Essays inLinguistics and Philosophy, Vol 29, D. Reidel, 1986.Delgrande, J., An Approach to Default Reasoning based ona First Order Conditional Logic, prec.
of AAAI-87, Seattle,WA, 1987.Dunin-Keplitz, B., Default Reasoning in Anaphora Resolu-tion, Proceedings o?ECAI-84, Pisa, North Holland, 1984.Van Eijck, J., Generalized Quantifiers and TraditionalLogic, in: Generalized Quantiliers and Natural Language, J.Van Benthem and A. Ter Menlen Edts, GRASS series no.
4 pp1-19, Forls, Dordrecht, 1984.Joshi, A., Webber, B., Weischedel, R., Some Aspects of De-fault Reasoning in Interactive Discourse, in: CommunicationF~Jlure in Dialogue and Discourse, R.G.
Reilly Edt., North Hol-land, 1987.Mercer, R., Using Default Logic to Derive Natural LanguagePresuppositions, proceedings of C$0SI88, Edmonton, 1988.Reiter, R., A Logic for Default Reasoning, ArtiIicial Intelli-gence, Vol 13, pp 81-132, 1980.Saint-Dizier, P., A n Approach to Natural Language Seman-560
