Issues in Relating Syntax and SemanticsDaniel JURAFSKYBerkeley Artificial Intelligence ResearchComputer Science DivisionUniversity of California t BerkeleyBerkeley, CA 947201.
IntroductionThe design of a natural language understanding system is depen-dent on a rich and structured knowledge representation.
Much recentwork in computational and cognitive linguistics has focused onrepresentations for syntactic and morphological knowledge.
Similarly,the knowledge representation paradigm has proposed many conceptualtools for the representation of semantic knowledge.
Combining the twoin one system, a system for representing linguistic knowledge, is theessential next task for computational linguistics.
This paper willexplore some issues which arise in the foundational design of such arepresentational system.
In using the fundamental building block ofthe grammatical construction (Fillmore 1987), I will reanalyze tradi-tional problems like the passive construction and dative "movement",showing how a "construction" solution avoids common problems inmoi'e traditional grammatical theories.
In addition, I will suggest howuse of an inheritance hierarchy can replace other linguistic tools forabstraction like lexieal rules, while others can be captured by appealingto shared semantic structures.
I will also touch on the issues of lexical-ization in theories of grammar - whether information is redundantlyspecified in the lexicon.2.
Representation of Syntactic and Semantic KnowledgeA complete and explicit description of a language, a grammar,may be represented in many ways.
Rule-based escriptions, for exam-ple, describe knowledge of language as knowledge of a set of rules.
Incontrast, traditional descriptions in the pre-generative frameworkassume that knowledge of language can be expressed by a knowledgeof structures.
Fillmore (1987) proposes a return to the traditionalnotion of the grammatical construction.
Construction grammaraims at describing the grammar of a language directly interms of a collection of grammatical constructions each ofwhich represents a pairing of a syntactic pattern with ameaning structure...(p. 3)Certainly this approach is standard for the representation f lexi-cal knowledge.
But extending this approach to larger constructions(the passive construction, the subject-object construction) means blur-ing the traditional boundaries between the lexicon and syntacticknowledge, a view also called for in Beeker (1976), and Wilensky andArens (1980).
In the construction view, then, idioms, for example, aresimply constructions with less variability than other, more productiveconstructions.Given that a grammar is a large collection of these pairs, how arethey to be represented7 Here we turn to insights from the field ofknowledge /epresentation.
The fundamental metaphor chosen as afoundation for a theory of grammar-meaning correspondences is that ofthe hierarchical stratified network.
The use of inheritance hierarchiesfor semantic knowledge iswell-established.
Less common, however, isits use for syntactic knowledge (Although see Flickenger, Pollard andWasow (1985) for inheritence in the lexicon).
Fewer still are systemswhich have used a structured inheritance network as a representational*Thanks to Nigel Ward and Robert Wilea~ky.
This research was sponsored in part bythe Dofe~e Advance Research Projects Ageacy (DOD), Arpa Ordex No.
4871, moni-tored by the Space end Naval Warfare Systems Command lmder Contract No.N00039-84.C-0089.formalism for both syntactic and semantic knowledge.
Notable excep-tions are PSI-KLONE (Bobrow and Webber 1980), as well Jacobs's(1985) ACE/KING system.The economy and elegance derived from having a grammardefined by a collection of structures defined with a single formalism isa strong argument for this type of unified representation.
But thisapproach, grammatical constructions represented in a unifiedknowledge-representation formalism, has a number of additionaladvantages:Use of a single representation scheme allows the correspomdence between syntax and semantics tobe represented in itsown tight.The two types of knowledge can be used together in naturallanguage understanding or generation, thus aiding thedevelopment of truly integrated understanding or generationmechanisms.Using the same theoretical mechanisms to account for gen-eralizan'ons in beth syntactic and semantic phenomenaencourages the development of unified treatments oflinguistic abstraction.
Thus, for example, structured inheri?tance or other abstraction mechanisms can be used as areplacement for syntactic roles, lexical redundancy roles,and other earlier linguistic tools to capture generalizations.And finally, constructs that were originally motivated forthe semantic domain, constructs uch as prototypes andcategory theory can be applied to syntactic knowledge, fol-lowing Lakoff (1987) and his arguments for cognitive gram-mar.The explicit pairing of every syntactic form with a semanticone is extremely useful for such understanding techniquesas "rule-by-rule" parsing.It is interesting tonote that the two main conceptual primitives ofthis approach, the doubly articulated construction a d the semantic net-work, both arise directly from some of the earliest work in modemlinguistics, indeed, both are clearly expressed in Saussure's Cours.
Aconstruction is precisely asign in the sense of Saussure.
It consists of asyntactic and a semantic component, the correlates of his signifiant andsignifi'e.
As for the semantic network, the idea that a theory of meaningcould best be expressed by describing the relations among concepts issimply Sauasure's (1966/1916) claim that "...each linguistic termderives its value from its opposition to all the other terms."
(p. 88)2.1.
Domains of KnowledgeI will refer to the two domains in the network which describe syn-tactic and semantic knowledge simply as tl~ Syntactic Domain andthe Semantic Domain.
The semantic domain includes categorizationof the lexical item's emantics with respect to the prototypical ontolog-ical primitives (as an Action, Thing, ete).
If the construction is headedby a valence-taking type, such as most Actions, the choice of lexicalentry will constrain the choice of case roles for each of the consti-tuents.
Each valence-bearing type in the lexicon has a case frame - aset of case roles such as agent, patient, or instrument, which it sub-categorizes (Fillmore 1968).
Also assueiated with each entry is animage-seheme (Lakoff 1987) such as the COrCI'AIN~R Schema, or thePART-WHOLE Schema.
In addition, a lexieal entry is linked to a frame278\[ Theft"~'ame\[ Th ie f \ ]E o~er \]\[ Goods \]l~?ameDomain.... - L_____~.L~_3~ - .
.
.
.
.
~_  Lex r~ob JSemantic SyntacticDomain DomainFigure 1 - Sketch of Syntax-Semantics Relation(itt the sense of Fillmore 1982).
A frame describes the backgroundconstituents and concepts necessary for framing the lexical-semanticdefinition of a concept.
Thus a lexieal entry is linked to a frame whichit evokes in the understanding process, and which helps in associatingand organizing concept in the generation process.The representation f the subcategorized constituent elements ofsyntactic patterns at the Syntactic domain is done by grammatical rela-tions such as Subject, Object or Complement.Grammatical Mapping links relate the Semantic and Syntacticdomains, mapping the actual syntactic realization to each of the seman-tic constituents of the frame - specifying which constituent maps to thesyntactic sul~ject, object, and obliques.
Following is a sketch of howsome of these elements might be related.
The grammatical mapph~gbetween the semantic entry for "rob" and its syntactic realization havebeen simplilied for expository purposes - a fuller description will besuggested when the passive construction is discussed.3.
Accounting for Some Traditional ProblemsAbove: I sketched an outline of a representation for semantic andgrammatiea~l knowledge.
In this section I give some suggestionstoward a more explicit characterization f the representation.
I do thisin the context of discussing some traditional linguistic problems whichprovide insight into and constraints on the design of a representationalscheme.3.1.
Passlvq~The passive construction in English has been analyzed as atransformational ru e, a lexieal rule, a change in grammatical relations.In each of these views, an active sentence like (1) and a passive like (2)(1) Marlowe mixed that perfectly loathsome martini.
(2) That perfectly loathsome martini was mixed by Marlowe.are related by some sort of rule.
Even in the" lexieal theories uch asLFG, the passive and active lexical items are.related by lexical ruleswhich makq, ~~eference to grammatical relations and other syntacticnotions.
Thas what these views have in common is an attempt to cap-ture a generalization i language by appealing only to the syntacticcomponent c~f the language.In a construction-type theory, one can appeal to the semanticcomponent ~o capture the requisite generalization.
Thus the derivedpredicate adjective (ie "passivized" verb) is related to the verb it mor-phologicaily resembles, by sharing the same argument structure andontological category at the Lexleal.Semantie domain.But how exactly does the meaning differ?
And at what level dowe express the productivity of the passive construction?
For example,in a lexical theory like LFG, the passive is a redundancy rule thatapplies to transitive verbs in the lexicon to produce new lexical entrieswith passive subcategorization frames.
But as Rice (1987) points out,the criteria by which the passive can be used depend on much moreinformation than can be stored in the lexicon.
For example, the differ-ence between (3) and (4) is not present in the lexical entry for sleep.
(3) This bed has been slept in again by that flea-bitten dog.
(4) *The living loom was slept in by Mary.In other words, the criteria for what makes an acceptable passiveinclude more lban just the subeategorization nformation of the verb.Rice gives many such examples, and argues that that the passive con~stmetions makes use of a notion of transitivity which makes referenceto the entire conceptualization that an utterance r alizes.A definition of the passive construction would have to includesome characterization f the following constraints:SEMANTIC FUNCFION:- Focus on the most affected participant in the scene.- Construe the verbal process as a property or modifier of thisparticipant.SYNTACTIC FORM:- Realize this participant as the subject.- Realize the verb (in the past participle form) as a predicate:adjective.Note that "most affected participant" must be defined with respectto the prototypical notion of transitivity.
Additionally, the realizationof the passive participle as a predicate adjective motivates its use withthe copula (or with got  - note that adjectives can also use this verb witha change-of-state reading).This description of the passive construction has been described insuch a way that it can be combined with other constructions in a modelof language use.
In other words, where redundancy rules in a lexicaltheory may describe an abstraction which has little to do with a pefforomance model, here a construction is not present unless it is used.Redundancy-type abstraction can be capture by use of the abstractionhierarchy.Thus in generation, for example, the speaker might choose aframe of participants, a verbal predicate wlfieh assigns thematic roles,and choose to focus ou a participant which happens to be assigned anon-agentive role, or rather one which would prototypically be realizedas a direct object.
Then the passive construction might be chosen asone construction to include in the utterance.
Such a model is used byMcKeown (1985).
She note the use of the passive construction tofocuson a semantic patient when answering question about missiles, produc-ing "Missiles are carried by water-going vehicles and aircraft..." (p 78).Similarly, in a parsing system, the presence of the passive con-279stmction would indicate the focus on the subject, while the verbal rootwould enable reconstruction f the thematic roles assigned to the argu-ments.3.2.
Redundant Information in the Lexicon - Passive LexlcalEntriesAlthough this representation f the passive as a constructionwhich can be combined with other constructions in a model of use isgeneral and elegant, should we still redundantly specify the passivizedversions of verbs in the lexicon?
This relates to the difficult question ofwhen rules are simply redundancy rules, and when they are necessaryfor a theory.
Two arguments for "compiling out" the lexicon, listingevery entry redundantly, are given by Bresnan.
The first is to avoidintricate feeding relations among rules.
As I show later when I discussthe relation of the Passive and Dative constructions, this can be avoidedby describing constructions with the understanding that they are to beembedded in a theory of use.
The second is the now classic evidenceagainst the derivational theory of complexity (Fodor, Bever, and GaITeR1974).
The evidence that the understanding process is no longer forpassive sentences than for active ones was strong evidence against atraditional transformational model Of course, this can also be evi-dence against aderivational lexical model, if the passive lexical entry isderived from the active one by productive lexical rules.
But this argu-ment does not apply to the construction grammar model, for the passivesentence is not derived in any fashion from the active one, but from anunderlying semantic onceptualization, ii  the same way as the activeone.However, there are certainly cases where even the most steadfastproponent of syntactic predictability from semantics must agree thatthe lexicon must include information that might be redundant.
Indeed,as Lakoff (1987) points out "Our individual grammars may not bestructured optimally... That is, a speaker may learn certain construc-tions by rote rather than fitting them into his grammar as a whole."
Ifsuch lexicalizing of knowledge is necessary in a theory of grammar, wemust have a way of representing it when it does occur.
If, for example,the English lexicon does represent the passive predicate "mixed" (asopposed to simply including the passive construction and the semar~ticargument structure for Mixing-Action) how would it be represented?Roughly, using the inhetitence hierarchy to instantiate a new node in?
the lexical-semantic domain of the network, and then having it multiplyinherit from both Mixing-Action and Passive.
Of course ach of theseconcepts, Mixing-Action and Passive would have to be further fleshedout - Passive according to the construction specification sketchedabove, and Mixing-Action with some sort of image-schematic notions(Lakoff 1987 and Langacker 1987).
But then the new conceptPassive-Mixing-Actinn would inherit he conceptual structure of bothof these.For example, the ontological Event concerning Marlowe and thatmartini, and its two syntactic realizations, can be represented asin Fig-ure 2.
For clarity's ake I have represented the two different syntacticrealizations on either side of the semantics.Note that using structured inheritance networks allows theSubject-Agent mapping for Bivalent Verbs to be inherited from themore general Verb-Action mapping.
Future directions for the represen-tation system include the ability to assign preferences to different map-pings, allowing as representation f the agency hierarchy, and othernon-binary phenomena.Talmy (1985) notes that just as the passive is a productive way offorming adjectives from semantic Actions, there are also many lexical-ized adjectival forms of verbs, forms not derived from such a produc-tive construction.
Here there is no choice but to use the lexicalized ver-sion of the representation, as a general productive mapping does notexist.
Figure 3 shows an example of how such a lexiealized representa-tion might be characterized.
In section 3.3 I will discuss the represen-tation of similar such non-productive derived forms, non-productive280derived nominals.3.3.
DativeThe essential issue in the design of a grammatical representationis how the representation is to be used.
In other words, how construcptions are to be combined in generation, or how they are to be used inunderstanding.
These issues have not tended to receive a lot of atten-tion, but a few famous construction-combining puzzles exist.
One suchwell-known example is the combination of the Passive with the DativeShift.
(or Dative Movement, or Dative Alternation).
The dative shift,first noted in the early 60's, involves verbs such as give which seem toallow two different structuring of its complement arguments:(5) The bartender gave a martini to Bond.
(6) The bartender gave Bond a martini.A similar or related rule produces such sentences a  (7)(7) I baked my mother acake.In a lexical grammar, such as LFG, these rules are lexical redun-dancy rules which apply to some verbs like "give" and produce newlexical entries.
In the new entries, the argument which fills the Goalthematic role is realized with the grammatical relation of direct object,while the Theme role takes the Second Object grammatical reiation.However, many recent semantic studies of these Dative andrelated examples how that there are strong semantic riteria to theapplication of the Dative constmction~ (Greene 1974, Oehrle 1975,Baker 1979, Langacker 1986).
These studies have shown that the feli-citous use of the construction i volves the Goal or Benefacted argu-ment ending up with some sort of possession of or control over theTheme.
Langacker (1986) notes:(8) I sent a walrus to Antarctica.
(9) ?I sent Antarctica walrus.
(10) I sent he zoo a walrus.Here (9) is deviant because it is difficult o place a continent in the roleof a possessor.
(11) I clear the floor for Bill.
(12) ?I cleared Bill the floor.
(13) I cleared Bill a place to sleep on the floor.Similarly, (13) makes it much easier to conceive of the area of thefloor coming under Bill's control than does (12).The point of these examples i  similar to the one made by Rice(1987) and noted above.
The semantic onstraints on when a DativeDirect Object can be used can not be expressed in the lexicon - thedifference between (12) and (13) depends on a constmal of the entireutterance conceptualization.
Thus the Dative Direct Object construc-tion is stated as a construction i the grammar whose combination withspecific lexieal items comes up only in use.
A rough characterizationof some aspects of this construction might be:SEMANTIC FUNCTION:- Focus on the affectedness of the Goal (or Beneficiary).- Do so by emphasizing the final control or possession the Goalhas over the Theme.SYNTACTIC FORM:- Realize the Goal as the Direct Object- Realize the Theme as the Second Object.Given the idea of this semantic onstraint, and our representationof the passive constmetinn, we are ready to explain a more complexproblem, that of utterances with both Dative Alternation and Passiveconstructions, uch as (14) or (15).
Of course, in the transformationparadigm such examples were handled by rule ordering - if the DativeMovement rule moving "Bond" to object position took place before thePassive role, a structure like (15) resulted, otherwise one like (14).
(14) Bond was given a martini by the bartender.AFigure 2 - Passive and Active ActionsFigure 3 - Passive and Deverbal Adjectives(15) A martini was given to Bond by file bartender.tlowever in a construction-based fmmalism, the interactionbetween the constructions can be predicted by examining the semanticsof the constructions.
In tile Dative rule, the Goal participant must befocused on as having some sort of control over the Theme.
The point isthat what i~ means for a Goal participant to be affected in a Goal-transfer scenalio is for the Goal to be transferred possession or controlof tile Theme.For different ypes of scenarios (or Idealized Cognitive Model(Lakoff 1987)), then, transitivity means different hings.
Rice (1987)takes note of this when she proposes three cognitive domains withseparate tra,lsitive vent prototypes: the physical, mental, and socialdomains.For example, for Locative-transfer scenarios, what it means to beaffected by the action is somewhat different.
As many writers havenoted (anlong them Anderson 1971 and Foley and Van Valin 1984), inthe (b) sentences the locative arguments (the truck and the wall) can beunderstood as completely affected by the verbal action.
In other words,the truck completely filled with hay, the wall completely covered withpaint.
The (a) sentences do not have this reading.For example,(16a) Bill loaded hay on the truck.
(16b)Bill loaded file track with hay.
(17a) Harry sprayed paint on the wall.
(17b)Harry sprayed the wall with paint.Thus "affected" here means something about completion.
Ofcourse, this is not surprising.
Both Rice (1987) and Hopper andThompson (1980) do list telic actions as more prototypicaUy transitivethan atelic ones.
But the important point is that what it means to beaffected by an action is different for different action-scenarios.Given some such theory of affectedness in transfer-scenarios, we281can say that the Dative construction isused to mark the affectedness ofthe Goal in this way.
But an affected object is exactly the sot~ of'parti-cipant he the Passive is us~ tor focusing on.
Thus sentences like (14)and (15) can be characterized simply by whether or not they use certainconstructions.
Sentence (15) is not lormed by syntactic feeding rules,but by the combination i language use of these two constructions.3.4.
NominalizationsThe correspondence b tween syntax and semantics i  encoded bymapping relations which link groups of syntactic m~d semantic ortsti-tuents in the network.
To take a lexical example, the semantic primi-tive 'idog" might be related to the syntactic entity which instantiates thenoun "dog" by one of these relations.
Likewise, more complex con--structions are mapped between the syntax and semantics.
So, forexample, the syntactic onstruction \[Adj Noun\] might be related to anumher of semantic onstructions, pecifying the various prototypicalways of combining the semantic inforlnation associated with adjectivesand nouns.
A complete tbeory of this correspondence would involveshowing how every syntactic onstruction was the realization of somesem,'mtic object.
But clearly fire appropriate syntactic onstruction tobegin out investigations i  the lexical category.
Note that a lexicalcategory is a grammatical construction like any other, differing only inthe very frequency of its use.It has long been observed that a rough correspondence an bedrawn between lcxical categories and an ontological partitioning of theworkl.
Everyone is familiar with the traditional grammarians'definition of a noun as a word representing a "person, place or tiring".Naturally, the exceptions to this simplistic analysis are abundant.
Forexample, nominalizations such as destruction secm to be more relatedto actions than to "things."
But the many exceptions to this analysiscaused the real semantic nature of lexical categories to receive lessattention than it deserved.
As Miller and Johnson-Laird (1976) note,"perhaps \[traditional grammarians\] did not really mean that everythinglabeled by a noun is a concrete object; perhaps they me~mt that whenyou use a noun to label something, you tend to conceptualize it as if itwere a concrete object (p 527)".
In the spirit of this Whorfian idea thatlexical categories reflect a set of ontological categories, the Lexical..Semantic Domain includes a set of such ontological primitives asEvents, Actions, and Things.
Mapping relations in the network relatethese primitives to syntactic onstructions.
In prototypical cases, likethe noun "table", what is semantically a Thing is mapped to a consti~tuent that is syntactically a noun (or more properly a noun phrase).Thus the lexical categories of language are the prototypical realizationsof these underlying sernantic regularities.
These "prototypical realiza-tions" are simply a version of what Lakoff (1987) called "central prin-ciples".
Note that they am also similar to Chomsky's (1986) "Canoni-cal Structural Realizations" of semantic oncepts.However, as each kind of ontological category can be mapped todifferent syntactic ategory, it is also possible to have cases of non-prototypical mapping.
Thus what have traditionally been called pro-ductive nominalizafions are non-prototypical mappings betweenActions and different types of nouns.
A nominalization like John'sdestroying the city is related semantically to an an Action, but ismapped in form to a noun phrase.
The Action "destroy" maps into thenoun "destroying".
Similarly, remember that the passive constructioninvolved the reanalysis of an Action as a a predicative adjective.As for noun-phrase mappings, as Ross (1973) showed, there are anumber of noun phrase constructions which are bear different relationsto the prototypical noun phrase.
He discusses eight different ypes ofnoun phrases which he arranges along a Nouniness Squish.
These NP'sare that-clauses, for NP to V, embedded questions, gerunds, possessivegerunds, action nominals, derived nominals, and Nouns.
An cxaminaotion of the syntactic ategory Noun-Phrase is essential to any discus-sion of relations between Actions and Nouns (1 use Action here only asan example - of course other ontological categories like States axe282relevant as well).
One of the great advantages toa unified representa~lion for linguistic and conceptual knowledge is that such models asLakoff's (1987) eatego~3, theories for semantics are automaticallyapplicable to syntactic knowledge.But here I will only discuss a few of the lexical issues ilwolved innominalizations, and in particular the difference between what Rosscalled "action" and "derived" nominals, or the productive and non-.productive nominalizations.For example, the verb "destroy" has two lexical nominalizationsthe productive or gerundive "destroying", and the derived or non-productive "destruction".
The nominal use of the gerundive "destroy-ing" is productive in the sense that if a new verb entered the language,say "to xerox", the native speaker would automatically be able to speakabout "xeroxing",Chomsky (1970) proposed that the relationship of these two typesof nominals to their corresponding verb be captmed in two diflerentways.
The relationship between productive noniinalizations and verl)swas captured by means of a transformational rule.
Non-productivenominalizations (like "destruction") are related to the verb by sharingsimilar phrase struetu~es.
To accomplish this, Chomsky pn)posed theX-Bar Convention, the use of generalized cross-categorical phrasestructure rules.In the network fl'amework, the generalization between verbs andproductive nominalizations i handled by structure sharing - they shaledescriptions of argument s ructure in the semantic domain, just as withthe passive examples.
So a network expressing the relation among"destroy" and "destroying" and their thematic structure would be simi-lar to the passive xample in Figure 2.Indeed, the abstraction hierarchy allows a way to provide for thecreativity of language without explicit rules.
Imagine the itwention ofa new Action, xerox.
Now the concept xerox is inserted under the mo~egeneral concept Action, and inherits from it the mapping relation to thenominal total.
A possible representation is outline in Figure 4.Note that this method oes not involve a "rule" to capture its gen--eralizations.
This may call into question the classic Chomskyan argu-ment from creativity to the need for rule systems.In this way we can handle non-productive nominalizations a wellas productive ones.
A characteristic feature of these non-productivenominalizations i  that tbeir semantics is rarely predictable tom thesemantics of the underlying verb - they tend to differ in idiosyncraticways.
From a diachronic element, we would say that the non-productive nominalizations have undergone ~mantic drill The net.- work representation f the synchronic results of semantic drift are simoply the creation of a new node which inherits fi'om Thi~Jg at theSemantic level.
But note that although this new node may differ invarious elements of its semantics, it will rarely drift far enough tochange its thematic structure.
Thus the similarity in the argumentstructure between on-productive nominalizations and verbs is not asyntactic fact, as predicted by Chomsky 1970, but a semantic one.
Thiswould predict that non-productive nominalizations which have driftedfar enough to have changed their argument s ructure would also differsyntactically from the related verh, This is indeed found to be the case.So, for example although we are perfectly comfm~able in saying (18) or(19), the meaning of "laughter" has drifted c~xough t at it is uncon~brt ~able to use it with an object in (20).
(18) Who is stupid enough to laugh at Marlowe?
(19) Laughing at M'lrlowe is a dangerous proposition.
(20) *Laughter at Marlowe is rare.A redundant lexicalized representation of the nOnoproductiw:nominalizatlons might look much like the one for adjecti;,cs in Figme3.Noun \]-7 -T~-  .
.
.
.
.
h\ I ' " ?
"<L/ - - - /  / IN\- \ -S i;,I _  ' .
.
.
.
:% _ -2 :s  1xeroxe~ xeroxed (~bjectSemantic SyntacticDomain DomainFigure 4 - Inheriting3.5.
Probgem and Fiature DirectionsTim deriva~km of verbs from nouns citrates in a markedly dif-lerent way from dm derivation of nouns from verbs.
As Clark and Clark(19"/9) note, a speaker ill using a denominal verb denotes a situationwhere "the parfait noun denotes one role ill the situation, mid tileremaining surface arguments of file denominal verb denote other olesin the situation."
A sketcll of a solution would involve view-mappingswhich relate not,ns to their derived verbs in the Semantic domain.
Inthis domain, a heavily context-dependent process creates a new lexicalentry through a metapt!orical mapping fl'om the underlying Thing.Thus this phenomenon may be much more process-oriented than tileconstruction model currently allows for.Another il;lpoltant issue is tile ability to model prototype ffectsand other cogniiive issues ill categmy theory.
"file ISA links which Ihave sketched in file lexiealized nlodels are only an impoverishedmodel of categorization.
A solution will probably involve some solu-tion such as adding nmnerical weights to nodes and to links to expresstypicality weights.4.
CollcluslonThis patx:r has suggested the barest skeleton of a representationsystem for linguistic knowledge.
I have discussed the semantics of twoimportant constructions, Passive and Dative, and have roughly themsketched out in ~,mch a way as to give us an insight into how they can becombined in a model of language use.
In addition, I discussed how tileinformation and coustrainls in these constructions might be redundantlyspecified in the lexicon.
These problems have offered us a glimpse ofwhat soli of constraints difficult linguistic problems will set forrclnesentational theories.
In explorhlg these constraints we gain impor-tant insights imp the requirements for a model of our use of naturallanguage.5.
ReferencesAndrews, Avery 1985.
"The major functions of file noun phrase" illShopen 1985Becket, Joseph 1976.
"The Phrasal Lexicon".
fil Proceedings oflnter-disciplinary Workshop on Theoretical Issues in NaturalLanguage Processing.
R. Schank and B. L. Nash-Webber (eds.
).Cambridge, Ma~s.
Jurte 1975.Bobrow, D.G.
and Allan Collins.
1975.
Representation a d Under-standing.
New York: Academic Pressthe Nominal ization RelationBobrow, R.J. and Bonnie Webber, "Knowledge Representation forSyntactic/Semantic Processing," AAAI 1980.Brachman, Ronald J. and James G. Sctmlolze.
1985.
An Overview ofthe KL-ONE Knowledge Representation System Cognitive Sci-ence 9 pp 171-216Bresnau, Joan (1977) "The Passive in Lexical Theory", in The MentalRepresentation of Grammatical Relations Cambridge, Mass.MIT Press.Chomsky, Noam, 1970 "Remarks on Nominalizations."
In R. Jacobsand P. Rosenbaum, cds., Readings in English TransformationalGrammar.
Gitm, WalthanL Mass.Chomsky, Noam.
1986.
Knowledge of Language.
New York, Praeger.Clark, Eve V. and Herbert J.
(1979), "When Nouns Surface as Verbs,"Language, Volume 55, 4.Cole, Peter & Jerrold Sadock, eds.
1977 Grammatical Relations.
(Syn-tax and Semantics 8).
New York: Academic PressComrie, Bernard 1976.
Aspect Cambridge, Cambridge Univ PressFillmore, Charles, draft, On Grammatical Constructions.
University ofCalifornia, Berkeley 1987.Fillmore, Charles.
1982 "Frame Semantics," in Linguistics in the Morn-ing Calm, Linguistic Society of Korea, Korea.Fillmore, Charles.
1977.
The case for case reopened, in Cole &Sadock, eds.
pp.
59-81.Fillmore, Charles.
1968 "Tim Case for Case".
In Universals in Linguis-tic Theory.
Edited by Emmon Bach and Robert T. Harms, 1-90.Chicago: Holt, Rinehart and WinstonFedor, J.
A., T. G. Veber, and M. F. Garrett.
1974 The Psychology ofLanguage: An Introduction to Psycholinguistics and GenerativeGrammar.
New York: McGraw Hill.Foley, William A., and Robelt D. Van Valin, Jr, 1985.
"Informationpackaging in the clause" in Shopen 1985Foley, William A., and Robert D. Van Valin, Jr, 1984.
Functional Syn-tax and Universal Grammar Chicago, University of Chicago PressGazdar, G., E. Klein, G. K. Pullum and I.
A.
Sag.
1985.
GeneralizedPhrase Structure Grammar Oxford, Basil Blackwell.Green, G. M. 1974.
Semantics and Syntactic Regularity.
Bloomington,Ind.
Indiana University Press.Gruber, Jeffrey.
1965.
Studies in lexical relations.
MIT.
Dissertation283Jackendoff, Ray.
1972 Semantic Interpretation in Generative Gram-mar.
Cambridge, Mass.
: MITPress.Jacobs, Paul S. 1985.
A Knowledge-Based Approach to LanguageGeneration.
UC Berkeley Dissertation, also Report 86/254 Com-puter Science Div., University of CaliforniaKay, Martin 1979.
"Functional Grammar" Proc.
5th Ann.
Meeting ofthe Berkeley Ling.
Soc.
142-158.Lamb, Sidney 1964.
"Stratificational Linguistics as a Basis forMachine Translation" in Makkai and Lockwood 1973Langacker, Ronald.
1986.
An Introduction to Cognitive GrammarCognitive Science 10, 1Langacker, Ronald.
1987.
Foundations of Cognitive Grammar Stan-ford University Press.Makkai, Adam, and David Lockwood 1973.
Readings inStratificational Linguistics.
University of Alabama PressMarantz, Alec P. 1984.
On the Nature of Grammatical RelationsCambridge, MIT PressMiller, George A. and Philip N. Johnson-Laird.
1976.
Language andPerception.
Cambridge, Mass.
Harvard University PressNorvig, Peter.
1986.
A Unified Theory of Inference for Text Under-standing.
UC Berkeley.
Dissertation.Oehrle, R. T. 1976.
The grammatical status the English dative alterna-tion.
Doctoral dissertation.
MIT.Perlmutter, David ed.
1983.
Studies in Relational Grammar I Chicago,University of Chicago PressPerlmutter, David and Paul Postal.
1983.
"Toward a Universal Charac-terization of Passivization" inPedmutter 1983.Pollard, Carl and Ivan A.
Sag.
1987.
Information.Based Syntax andSemantics: Volume 1: Fundamentals, Stanford, CSLI.Rice, Sally Ann.
1987.
Toward a Cognitive Model of Transitivity.Doctoral Dissetl~ation.
University of California at San Diego.Ross, John Robert.
1973.
"Nouniness" .in Osamu Fujimura, ed., ThreeDimensions of Linguistic Theory, pp.
137-258.
Tokyo: TEC Cor-porationSaussure, Ferdinand de 1915/1966.
Course in General Linguistics,transl.
Wade Baskin.
McGraw Hill New York, 1966 orig 1915.Shopen, Timothy ed.
1985.
Language Typology and syntactic descrip-tion, Vol 1.
Cambridge Cambridge University PressTalmy, Leonard.
1985.
"Lexicalization Patterns: semantic structure inlexical forms" in Shopen (1985) Vol.
IlLWilensky, R., and Arens, Y.
1980.
PHRAN -- A Knowledge-basedApproach to Natural Language Analysis.
University of Califor-nia at Berkeley, Electronics Research Laboratory Memorandum#UCB/ERL M80\]34.Woods, William A.
1975.
What's in a link?
in Bobrnw and Collins1975.
pp 35-82284
