Automatic translation of support verb constructionsMorris SALKOFFUniversit~ Paris-7, L.A.D.L.2, Place Jussieu, 75005 PARIS, FRANCEVerb,; like have, do, take, be, etc., appear with verbnominalisations in sentences like the following:(1)a Max alluded to the crime ~> b Max madean allusion to the crime(2)a Max harmed the child ~> b Max did harmto the child(3)aMax walked along the s t reet~> b Maxtook a walk along the street(4)a Jim's story contradicts Max'sconfession ~> b Jim's story is incontradiction with Max's confessionM.
Gross (1981) calls such verbs 'support verbs', andI shall adopt his terminologLv.
These verbs exhibitmany interesting properties which have been studiedsystematically for several French support verbs: faire(make), avoir (have), prendre (take), etre (be), etc.
Anexamination of the results indicates that supportverb,; must be taken into account in the parser and inthe lexicon of a program of automatic translation.
Ishall discuss the problem in the context of a possibleprogram for French- English translation.In what follows, Vsup designates the support verb,and Nsup stands for the 'supported' noun associatedwith Vsup.
NO and N2 designate the subject noun andthe indirect object noun, respectively.
The symbol'+'is used to indicate a choice.I.
The support verb constructionIn order to be able to parse and then translatecorrectly such sequences as make an allusion,do harm, etc., the nominalizations allusion and harmmust be marked in the lexicon as appearing with thesupport verbs make and do.
There are several reasonsfor this:(i) The translation of a simple verb (e.g., allude) or ofa support verb construction may or may not be anequivalent simple verb or support construction in thetarget language.
For example, (1)a cannot betranslated into French with a simple verb:(5) Max alluded to the crime = Max (*alludait +a fait une allusion) au crimeConversely, there are French support constructionswhich am more easily be translated into English by asimple verb than by a support cotrstruction :(6) Max fait une beuverie chaque samedi' = Maxcarouses every Saturday(ii) A support verb can be zeroed, leaving behind anelliptical construction that cannot be translated as itstands.
Consider the following sentences :(7) People who are on drugs (are..) = Les gensqui prennent des drogues (sont..)The English support construction be on drugs isrelated to the sentence Ahz~c drugs h#nself.
In French,the support verb must be prendre (take).
Whenwho are is deleted in (7), we obtain:(8) People on drugs (are...)But this sentence can only be translated into Frenchas (7) was, since the French support quiprennent(who take) is not deletable.
Note that it is not aquestion here of on having a different meaning fromits more common locative sense (usually translated assur).
Rather, the support verb be can be deleted inEnglish, and the elliptical construction (8) has nodirect equivalent in French where the support verb isnot zeroable.
(iii) More complicated cases of support verb deletionoccur.
Certain support verb constructions contain apredicate noun that is not the nominalization of averb; when the support verb is deleted, a problem intranslation may arise.
(9)a L'attention que Max a prSt6 au probl~me(est..) = The care that Max gave to theproblem (is..)(9)b L'attention de Max au probl~me(est..) = *Max's care to the problem (is..)(10)a L'entorse que Max a fait aux r6glements(est..) = The violence that Max did to therules (is..)(10)b L'entorse de Max aux r6glements(est..) = *Max's violence to the rules (is..)I 243The French support verb constructionsprater attention in (9)a and faire une entorse in (10)atranslate without difficulty into English.
However, thesupport verb can be deleted in French, as in (9)b and(10)b, but not in English.
The latter sentences canonly be translated by re-introducing the deletedsupport verb.To handle all these difficulties, a link must beestablished in the lexicon between the support verband all the nouns associated with it (since eachsupport verb can appear typically with many hundredsof nouns).
Thus, beuverie (in 6) and entorse (in 10)must be marked as appearing with faire.
In English,drug, s must be marked for be on.
Then, after parsing,faire une beuverie will be a sequence of marked, hencelinked, categories and the French-English transferlexicon furnishes a translation specific to thatsequence.
Similarly in (8), (9)b and (10)b the markassociated with the nouns drugs, attention and entorsewill enable the program to reconstitute the deletedsupport verb.Cases like (10)b require more lexical markers thanthe simpler cases of (1) to (4).
The problem is thatthere are sentences imilar to (9)b and (10)b whichyet do not require the addition of the deleted supportverb in order for a translation to be possible.
This isthe case in such sentences as the following:( l l )a L'acquiescement que Max donne au projet(est..) = The consent hat Max gives to theproject (is...)( l l)bL'acquiescement de Max au projet(est..) = Max's consent o the project (is..)In this case, it suffices to indicate that acquiescementcan be supported by donner, so that ( l l )a can beparsed correctly; then the transfer lexicon containsthe translation of donner acquiescementgl = giveconsent to.
This entry further indicates thatacquicscenlent, without donner, translates as consent.This part of the entry is sufficient for the translationof acquiescement ?t in (l l)b.In (9)b and (10)b, the nouns attention and entorse aremarked for the Vsup (prater, faire) with which theycan appear, just as acquiescement is marked fordonner.
However, if the sequence de NO ~ N2appears after the nominalizations, it has to betransformed into que NO Vsup ~ N2 before it canbe translated correctly.
Therefore, the lexical entriesof attention and entorse must contain more than justthe translation of faire attention and faire entorse: theymust additionally be marked as requiring thistransformation of a prepositional phrase into arelative for the purpose of translation.II.
Parsing support verb constructionsThe principal feature of the support verb constructionis that the verbal slot in the sentence is occupied bythe combination of a verb, Vsup, plus a noun, Nsup.Thus, if I schematize a sentence as follows:(12) Sent - -> S V Othen the verb slot V, when parsing (1), can containeither allude or Vsup Nsup = make an allusion.
Thismeans that the verb V must have at least two optionsin its definition: a simple verb, or a support verbconstruction.
This yields the following kinds ofanalyses:SentS V 0NP PPNO all es Prep NP2I l IMax to the crimeFIG 1SentS V 01 I 1NP VSUP OSUPI \NO Vsup NPMax makes Nsup Prep NP2I / Ian a t tus ion  to crimeFIG 2The symbol VSUP in Fig.
2 designates the wholesupport construction.
In these two sentences, theobject O and the support verb object OSUP containthe same prepositional phrase to the ctbne.
In othercases they may differ, e.g., as in (2), where O is an NP(child) and OSUP is a PP (to the child).In order to obtain just the two analyses O f Figs.
1 and2, many details must be attended to:(1) The noun Nsup associated with Vsup in Fig.
2(allusion) must be analyzed as part of a completenoun phrase NP, and not just as a bare noun N. Ineffect, left and right modifiers may appear with thisnoun:Max makes a brief allusion in Latin to the crimeIn this sentence, allusion takes an adjective leftmodifier, and a prepositional phrase as a rightmodifier.
(2) Since the NP appearing after Vsup has a slotfor the prepositional phrase as a right modifier, theparser will always try to place the sequence244 2OSUP = to the crime in that slot, as a modifier ofallusion.
This can be prevented by attaching thefollowing test to the set of right modifiers in the NP: aprepositional phrase is not allowed as a right modifierof the noun Nsup if the preposition is precisely theone associated with Vsup.
(3) Conversely, the parser will try to analyze thesentence of Fig.
2 with the schema of Fig.
1.
That is, ittries Nsup = allusion as a simple direct object ofmakes.
This should be disallowed, even if thesentence is such that OSUP is empty, e.g., Max madea strange allusion.
Whenever a Vsup appears with anNsup it should be analyzed as a verb supportconstruction, and not as an ordinary verb followed bya direct object.This is accomplished by adding a test which examinesthe markers attached to the verb and object in theirlexical entries.
If the test can verify that the verbcarries the mark Vsup, as make does, and the nounobject carries the mark of an Nsup, as aUusion does,then the option 'ordinary vcrb' of V is disallowed.This forces the parser to choose the option VSUP forthe verb.
All these tests and constraints on theparsing can easily be incorporated into the stringanalyzer of French that I have developped for theIBM 9370 (1973, 1979), and which is currently being~'ewritten i  ADA.IlL Additional problemsVarious difficulties have to be takcn care of when a~,;upport verb is added to the source sentence for thepurposes of a smoother translation.
(i) We have seen in (10)b and ( l l )b that somemodifiers of an Nsup of the form de NO gi N2require the addition of the deleted support verb if acorrect translation is to be obtained.
Adding thesupport verb implies that a tense must be supplied forit.
This tense can be derived, but not unambiguously,from the tenses of the verbs in which the supportconstruction is embedded.
The problem is that morethan one tense may be acceptable, ven in the sourcelanguage.
\]Hence, only an approximate solution canbe given.When the support verb construction is the subject, atense can be added to the support verb as follows.a) If the tense of the principal verb is present, futureor conditional, then the support verb can take thepresent tense:(13) L'entorse de Max aux r6glements(est + sera + serait)nuisible -- The violenceMax does to the rules (is+ +will be + wouldbe) harmfulb) If the tense of the principal verb is some form ofthe past, then the support verb takes a past tense:(14) L'entorse de Max aux r6glemeuts (6tait + a6t6 + aurait 6t6) nuisible = The violenceMax did to the rules (was + hasbeen + would have been) harmfulWhen the support verb construction is in tile direct orindirect object, then either the past or present ensecan be added.
The French construction is ambiguous:(15) (Je remarque + J'avais remarqu6) l'entorsede Max aux r6glements = (I notice + I hadnoticed) the violence Max (does + did) tothe rules(ii) Some support constructions, like (ll)b, do notrequire the addition of the deleted support verb.
Thedifference between those that do, as in (13) and (14)above, and those that do not must appear as a markin the lexical entry of the supported noun.Thus, the Nsup entorse (violence) has a first markindicating that its Vsup is faire (do).
A second markindicates that the following transformation must beeffected in order to obtain a correct ranslation:(16) Nsup (entorse) de N0hum ~ N- -> Nsup(entorse) que N0hum fait ~t NIn addition to  checking for the presence of thissecond mark, the program must also verify that thetransformation of (16) is applicable, i.e., that thenoun appearing after de is a 'human' noun that can bean acceptable subject of faire une entorse.
(iii) In many support constructions, the noun phraseconsists of a frozen expression, i.e, an invariablesequence of words:(17)a Max fait grand cas de ce la -  Max sets ahigh store on that(17)b Max fait fi de vos conseils = Max scornsyour adviceThere are many hundreds, or thousands, ofexpressions of this kind in which no substitutions canbe made, nor any words added.To parse this type of support construction, the stringVSUP, schematized in Fig.
2, must contain a secondoption which is not a noun phrase NP, but whichconsists only of a sequence of fLxed words.
Then,another test must be added to VSUP to ensure thatgrand cas orfi is not analyzed as a variable NP, i.e., asan occurrence of the first option.
A mark can beadded to the lexical entry of cas and fi to indicateinvariability.
In addition, one distinguished entry mustcontain the exact sequence of words constituting the3 245supported expression.
For example, the entry for cascontains the sequence grand, standing for thesupported expression grand cas.The passive transformation is possible for some ofthese support constructions, but its applicabilitycannot be predicted:(18)a Grand cas a 6t6 fait de cela = High storewas set on that(18)b *Fi a 6t6 fait de vos conseilsHence, this possibility must also be marked in thelexical entry, so that the absence of an article in thesubject grand cas can be taken into account by thetest for the well-formedness of the subject.IV.
ConclusionsSystematic studies of French support verbs haveshown that there are many thousands of supportconstructions of the type discussed here, for eachsuch verb (cf.
J. Giry-Schneider, 1987; G. Gross,1989).
The translations of such expressions isirregular, but this is to be expected, and suchirregularity will be confined to the lexicon.
Theregularities of support verb constructions can behandled in the manner discussed here, and thistreatment simplifies considerably the parsing moduleof a program for automatic translation.ReferencesJ.
Giry-Schneider, "Les pr6dicats nominaux enfranqais", Droz, Gen6ve, 1987G.
Gross, "Les constructions converses du fran~ais",Droz, Gen6ve, 1989M.
Gross, "Les bases empiriques de la notion depr6dicat s6mantique", in Langages, No.
63,Sept.
1981, pp.
7-51, Larousse, ParisM.
Salkoff, "Une grammaire n cha~ne du fran~ais",Dunod, Paris, 1973 (out of print)M. Salkoff, "Analyse syntaxique du fran~ais",J. Benjamins, Amsterdam, 19794 246
