Semiautomatic Interactive Multilingual Style Analysis (SIMSA)G/inter WinkelmannTA Triumph-Adler AGTA ResearchFtirther Strasse 212D-8500 Nuremberg 801 AbstractA style checker is a tool which supportsauthors during the process of writing:Certain style markers are analyzed, theirvalues are compared with a given norm,deviations are detected, andrecommendations are given to the author.The power of a style checker depends onavailable tools such as lexica, parser, etc.This paper describes a style checker whichwill be integrated m a workbench(Translator's Workbench) and which hasaccess to lexica and parser.
The stylechecker can be used for different languagesand for different kinds of text.defined with the help of these values: Astylistic norm fl~r technical texts, for usermanuals, for a certain author, etc.With respect to these premises we nowdefine style checking as: matching thedensities of the features in a given textagainst he densities of the correspondingfeatures in the norm.
"Correct style" iscorrect style concerning a certain (groupbased) norm.
"Incorrect style" is the degreeof deviation between the norm values ofthe style markers and the values in theactual text.3 Recent Approaches2 IntroductionWithin ESPRIT II - Project 2315,Translator's Workbench (TWB), a tool isunder development which checks stylisticmarkers of texts.
According to the goals ofTranslator's Workbench as an integratedmultilingual toolkit, the concept of the stylechecker includes multilinguality, and it usesother tools of Translator's Workbench suchas parser and lexicon, which provideSIMSA with more power than comparableapproaches.Style as it is understood in SIMSA is notreduced to simply a personal impression.Its description is not restricted to informalclassifications uch as "good style", "stylelike the style of author x".
Within afunctional, group based definition, style isthe selection of certain words, phrases,sentences or structures out of a set ofgrammatically correct words, phrases,sentences or structures.
These linguisticfeatures in which texts can differstylistically are called style markers.
Groupbased means that these style markers haveequal characteristics within a certain groupof texts.The stylistic characteristics of a group oftexts, their values of style markers, can beset as a norm.
Thus, different norms can beSimilar approaches (but within differentcontexts) have been done during the lastdecade.
Beside approaches translatingstyle from one language to another viaabstract universal categories like textcomplexity and readability (Dimarco/Hirst1988), two approaches to style checking,Writer's Workbench and EPISTLE, shouldbe mentioned.Writer's Workbench (Cherry 1983 et al)has influenced the development ofcommercial software such as Rightwriter,PC-Style and Grammatik.
It does stylecritiquing, but it cannot do critiquing thatreqmres a parser output, such as nounphrase complexity.
Embedded in EPISTLE(Heidorn et al 1982) is a style checkerwhich uses the parse tree of the grammarcheck.
So, EPISTLE covers a wider rangeof style markers.
Nevertheless, stylisticcritiques have to be adapted to the field ofapplication.Compared with Writer's Workbench andEPISTLE, SIMSA is a more universalapproach.
Its main feature is multi-linguality.
The same parser can be used fordifferent languages (cf.
Hellwig 1988),which allows to use the same format ofparser output for the style analysis ofdifferent languages.
Additionally, stylemarkers are more universal and can be1 79used in different languages too, as well asin different kinds of text.
The adaptation toa language or a special kind of text will bedone automatically if a sufficiently largetext corpus is put in for the setting of a newnorm ("Sufficiently large" means sufficientfor significant values concerning eachfeature; therefore "sufficiently large"depends on the selected features).4 Style markersOn the very beginning of style analysis, weneed an inventory of style markers.Style errors can be detected on severaldifferent levels: word, phrase, sentence andtext.Relewant stylistic features areon word level: word length; fillers;nominalisation; compound nouns,terminology;on phrase level: noun-phrasecomplexity; cumulation ofadjectives; complex prepositionalphrases;on sentence level: sentence length;compound sentences; distancebetween verb stem and .prefix;on text level: passive voice;pronouns; phenomena ofcohesion/ coherence: reference,conjunctions, etc.Within the project, two teams (SiemensAG, Germany and Triumph-Adler AG,Germany) are working on the developmentof :relevant style markers.
Thedevelopment is conducted in four steps.First, principles of good style and possiblestylistic markers in general had to beidentified by examining literature on goodtechnical writing and linguistic literature onstyle markers.For each style marker the informationneeded has been identified, so that it canbe used by the style checker.
Some stylemarkers can be transferred into analgorithm just by using statistical methods,others need lexical information, and a thirdgroup needs syntactic information whichhas to be provided by the parser within theTWB project.In a third step, the style markers areformalized and checking algorithms arebeing developed.Finally, functions are being developed totransfer given values (average, standarddeviation, etc) in a bar chartrepresentation including thresholds andthe degree of deviation from thepredefined norm.5 ArchitectureSIMSA consists of three main parts.
Theuser has the option to set the norms andthresholds of the stylistic features byputting in a representative or paradigmatictext corpus (standardization of stylemarker values).
He can perform ananalysis of a given text (Analysis; batchmode) and he can start a dialogue for moreinformation on a given analysis (Analysisdialogue; interactive mode).Standardization of style marker valuesImportance of style markers, their averagevalues, and thresholds of their valuesdepend on the analyzed language, and theydiffer with the kind of analyzed texts.
Howcan stylistic critiques be adapted todifferent fields of application'?
In principle,there are three possibilities:First, stilistic norms can be fixed once andfor all without any possibility of change.This case allows only one conception of"one good style".
But what about functionalconcepts in which deviations concerningstyle markers are understood as deviationsin the functionality of a text?
And whatabout different functionalities of stylemarkers in different languages?A second approach is to set the standardnorm by the users themselves or at least bya superuser.
This is the approach inEPISTLE where "thresholding, togetherwith adjustable weights, allow tailoring ofstyle critiques to individual environments..."(Heidorn et a l \ ]  982:323).A somewhat different approach was takenin SIMSA: SIMSA provides the user withdefault norms for several kinds of text.Moreover, it offers the option to set normsaccording to a given text corpus.
The userputs in some texts which belong to a given80 2language and a given kind of text.
SIMSAwill analyze the text corpus and will set andstore the norm of the style markersaccordingly.AnalysisThe analysis part of SIMSA is underdevelopinent by the above mentionedteams of Siemens AG and TA Triumph-Adler.
I)ue to the nature of TWB as anintegrated toolkit, analysis functions willUSe other TWB tools as far as possible.
Theanalysis functions can be divided into threemain groups, in purely statistical functions,in functions with lexical access, and infunctions using parser output.Statistical algorithms are sulficient for stylemarkers as e.g.
sentence length and wordlength.
The analysis functions check thesize of the text corpus (a certain size isnecessary to get significant devialions),compute average, standard deviation andother necessary vahies and compare thesevalues with the norm values.Functions using lexical information arcnecessary for style markers as e.g.
l\]llersand slang expressions.
The access to lexicacan be managed in two ways.
Either wordscan be matched against small lexicaspecially designed for stylistic purt)osescontaining only a small {lnlotlnl andseirlantically restricted class of words (e.g.fillers or slang expressions), or words canbe matched via the parser output againstthe lexicon used by the parser, lit thesecond case, necessary stylistic information(e.g.
"word is a chemical technical term") iscontained in the lexicon entry.Functions using parser outpul arenecessary for style markers as e.g.
nounphrase complexity, distance between verbstem and verb prefix, sentence complexity.These functions filter the parser output fornecessa:ry information.The style checker still works if parseraccess is not possible.
In this case (and incases the user doesn't want an analysisconcerning all style markers) the analysisof certain style markers can be suppressed.The results of the analysis (values ofdeviation from the norm, etc.)
are stored ina separate analysis file.Analysis dialogueThere are two ways to start the anal~,-sisdialogue.
First, an option "analysisdialogue" will be offered to the user afterthe style checker has finished its analysis.Second, the user can call the analysisdialogue separately if there is an analysisfile and a corresponding text file.
"Analysis dialogue" opens a windowcontaining bar charts which demonstratefor each analyzed style marker the degreeof deviation from the norm.
The user canask for more information about certainstyle features in general and he can ask forthe occurrences of the criticized stylemarkers in the text.
Due to the nature ofstylistic errors as grammatically correct butmore or less inadequate usage of linguisticfeatures, the "Analysis dialogue" is thoughtto give recommendation as lar as possible,but not to correct text passagesautomatically.6 ReferencesL.L  Cher!y et al: Compuler aids for textanalysis, m: Bell Laboratories P, ecord.Vohime 61, Number 5, Short Hills, NewJersey, 1983, 10-16.(2.1)imarco/G.
Hirst: Stylistic Grammars inLanguage Translation.
in: Proceedings ofthe 12th International Conference onComputational l.inguistics (CO!
.ING),Budapest, 1988, 148- 153.G.E.
Heidorn et al: The EPISTLE text-critiquing system, in: IBM System Journal,vol.
21, Nr.
3.
1982, 305-326.P.
llellwig: Chart parsing according to theslot and filler principle, in: Proceedings ofthe 12th International Conference onComputational Linguistics (COLING),Budapest, 1988, 242-244.G.
Heyer, R. Kese, M. L0dtke and G.Winkelmann: Translator's Workbench - Atoolkit for translators, in: ESPRIT '89.Office and Business Systems.
Results andProgress of Esprit Projects in 1989.Brussels, November 1989.Enkvist, N. E.: Linguistic Stylistics.
Paris,1973.3 81
