Gapping and FrameA fresh look from a cognit iveSemantics:perspect iveAndreas StolckeComputer  Science DivisionUniversity of California, BerkeleyandInternational Computer  Science Inst i tute1947 Center Street, Suite 600Berkeley, CA 94704, U.S.A.stolcke@icsi.berkeley.edu1 Intro'ductionThe topic of this paper is one of the pet sub-jects of trar~gformational syntax- -gapping.
Sev-ern 'exa~ffple's belOw will show that gapping isactually affected 'by' a, combination of syntactic,semantic and pragmatic factors, thus being farfrom a purely syntactic phenomenon.
By look-ing at some basic properties of gapping from thepoint of view of interpretation and cognitive pro-,cessing, it is possible to arrive at a global princi-ple tha t can provide an integrated approach forthese Various intluences on.
gapping.
The princi-ple proposed has the added advantage of beingndt justian arbitrary formal rule but being mo-tivated by eogni{ivh cOnsidei'ations.
Thus, tileview taken here is compat!ble with tire basictenets o\[ Cognitive' !,inguist,ics.
'2 Gapping and Interpretation2.1 Some examplesGapping constructions ifivolve two or more co-ordinated.clauses where the verb is missing inall but one clause, such as(1) Bill is reading a book, John (D a newspaper,and Kathy @ her favorite cartoon.Here I use '0 ' to indicate the position of the gap,i.e.
the position the missing constituent wouldpresumably have taken in the  clause if it hadbeen spelled out in, full.
This notation is merelya convenience and should not be taken to implythat some sort of empty constituent is present.Also, for historical reasons, I will refer to theconstituents 'left-over' in the gapping clause as~rrmants, without implying that some sort ofdeletion has actually taken place.The more interesting cases of gapping arethose where the verb is missing along with otherconstituents.
In these cases the @ -notation is es-sential to disambigu~te he intended reading.
(2) (a) Bill gave John the book and ~) (D Kathythe newspaper(b) ?Bill gave John the book and Kathy ~)the newspaper(c) *Bill gave John the book and i(aLhythe newspaper {?This example also shows that, in general,'grammaticality' or 'acceptability' is definedonly relative to an intended interpretation.
1Thus, whereas sentence/interpretation (2a.)
isfine, most speakers don't get (2c) and accc.pt(2b) only when given a particular intonation, i.e.topic-focus tructure.The examples above all illustrate for'uJar'd 9ap ..ping, i.e.
the gapping clause follows the non-gapping clause.
The converse, backward gap-ping, also occurs, but the question of what de-termines the direction of gapping will not be ad-dressed here.
In fact, all the examples discussedinthis paper are forward gapping constructionsfrom English and German where backward gap-ping is not nearly as varied and flexible as theforward variety.1Langa.cker (1985) makes the point that accept~tbilityis a judgement about the appropriateness of a pairingbel, ween a phonological form and the conceptualiz~Lt.ionit expresses, rather than some purely formal property ofthe phonological form per se,341The main reason for focusing on forward gap-ping at this point is that we want to considergapping phenomena from the point of view ofthe cognitive processing demands they pose forthe speaker/hearer.
As will be discussed in sec-tion 2.2, it seems safe to make some very ba-sic assumptions about processing in the case offorward gapping, so that its implications can bestudied without the burden of wildly speculativepremisses fl'om a still largely unknown domain.Most theories to date have tried to accountfor gapping on the basis of purely formal aspectsof syntax alone (see van Oirsouw (1987) for anoverview), with the notable exception of Kuno(1976), who explicitly considers functional andperceptual aspects.
Such approaches, mostlyin a transformational framework, try to explaingapping as the result of some form of 'deletionunder identity.'
tlence these accounts are unableto consider questions uch as why (2b) becomespossible only when given the appropriate focusstructure (stressing Bill, the book, and Kathg,the newspaper).
In these frameworks focus isconsidered a matter of pragmatics and simplydoesn't figure in a syntax-based account.
Sec-tion a.3 will show that the effects of focus ongapping are a natural consequence of the ap-proach taken here.Similarly, semantic onstraints and contextualfactors may have an inttuence on the interpreta-tion of gapping clauses.
Compare the sentencesin (2) above to those in (3).
(3) Mary got a lot of nice clothes on her six-teenth birthday.
(a) IIer parents gave her an expensiveevening gown and her godmother ~a fine pair of shoes.
(b) ?tier parents gave her an expensiveevening gown and ~ @ her godmothera fine pair of shoes.
(2a) and (3a), and (2b) and (3b), respectively,have identical phrase structure, yet the preferredinterpretations of the gapping clauses are re-versed.
Some of the ways in which semantics caninfluence gapping are discussed in section 3.4.2.2 I '?ame Semant icsIt is natural that researchers try to confine lin-guistic phenomena to subtheories (such as syn-tax), feeling that not doing so would inevitably342face them with an overwhelming range of datafor which no adequate principles and rules areavailable.Cognitive Linguistics proposes that all levelsof linguistic processing are embedded in the gen-eral human cognitive apparatus and that, there-fore, linguistic generalizations can only be de-rived by studying language as the  product ofcognition rather than of some autonomous for-mal system (Langacker, 1985; Lakoff, 1986).
Ifthis view is correct hen the study of processingconstraints and applicable cognitive principles(e.g., of categorization) should provide us witha handle on some of the linguistics phenomenathat apparently span a variety levels.Of course nothing is won if we have to re-sort to uncertain or unjustified claims about thecognitive domain itself, or have no certainty ofits relation to the linguistic problems in ques-tion.
Fortunately, in the special case of gappingas discussed here, the assumptions we have tomake about underlying semantics and process-ing structures are minimal.
I will adopt an infor-mal version of frame semantics, along the linesof Filhnore (1982).
In this view, the main verbof a clause determines a set of roles to be filled bythe (meaning of) remaining constituents.
Thus,interpreting the first clause of (2a) resuIts in astructure of the formgiveagent : Bill(4) patient : bookrecipient : JohnIt is a matter of debate how 'deep' the roles orcases making np the frame representation shouldbe.
15br our purposes it is not crucial whetherone prefers several levels of representation, suchas grammatical roles vs. semantic roles, or gen-eral roles (like agent) vs. frame-specific roles(like giver).
The only assumption here is thatinterpretation requires a process equivalent othe assignment of constituent meanings to slotsin the frame, and that this assignment has to bederived based on whatever linguistic and con-textual clues are provided.In the case of gapping, then, several suchframes are obtained by partly retaining slotfillers from previous instances of the same typeof frame (i.e.
generated by the same verb).
Thusa sequence of multiple frames with shared fillerscan be linguistically realized in a single, compactconstruction where multiple fillers are expressedonly once.
In the case of example (2a) above,the second, gapping clause refills the 'patient'and 'recipient' slots of the give frame, while re-taining the 'agent' slot.In non-gapping sentences a combination ofword order, case marking, prepositional mark-ers, selection restrictions, etc.
is usually morethan sufficient o assign fillers unambiguously toframe slots.
In gapping constructions the roleassignment problem becomes potentially moredifficult since some of this information is lost, al-though in many cases the loss is marginal.
Thus,in example (1) interpretation of the secondclause is unproblematic since two constituentshave to fill two slots, and the usual rules of con-stituent order in English unambiguously deter-mine the assignment.
In (2), on the other hand,there are three potential role assignments con-sistent with the constituent order given.The problem, then, is to identify the syntac-tic, semantic and pragmatic factors that ren-der certain gapping structures (and their corre-sponding interpretations) acceptable, while oth-ers axe ruled out (or at least made less felici-tous).3 A ConjectureWe can now state a tentative principle regardingthe relation between the intcrI)retation of gap-ping constructions and their acceptability.
(5) Role  Ass ignment  Pr inc ip le :  A gappingconstruction with a specific interpretationwill be acceptable only if it provides suffi-cient clues for the role assignment impliedby that interpretation.This principle is similar in spirit to tile R,e-coverability Constraint proposed by I\[ankamer(1973), although it is far more generM as it po-tentially encompasses all kinds of linguistic phe-nomena that play a role in interpretation, otjust syntax.
2Note that (5) does not claim that in-terpretability alone will render a sentenceacceptable, a To prevent he conjecture from be-2IIankamer's principle was concerned with the recov-ery of 'deep structure' after having undergone deletionsand movement.3If someone used apple green as a noun phrase refer-ring to a green apple we will in general be able to makesense of (i.e., interpret) hat description while still recog-nizing it as ungramnlatical.ing vacuous two points have to be addressed.First, we have to show that there is a systematicrepertoire of linguistic devices available for theinterpretation of gapping constructions.
Sec-ondly, it must be shown that these devices sys-tematically affect the acceptability of gappingsentences in accordance with the principle.In many cases gapping constructions will notbe strictly 'good' or 'bad', but felicitous to a cer-tain degree, or acceptable to only some fractionof speakers.
This is consistent with the principlestated above, since (5) can easily be rephrasedin terms of degrees of acceptability:(6) Role Assignment Principle (gradedversion): A gapping construction with aspecific interpretation will tend to becomemore acceptable as more clues for the in-tended role assignment are made available.Note also that this formulation effectivelycharacterizes interpretation ofgapping construc-tions as an evidential cognitive phenomenon,i.e.
one where multiple sources of evidence con-tribute to a perception or interpretation i  a cu-mulative manner.3.1 Syntact i c  c luesDespite the definite non-syntactic nfluences ongapping, syntax (together with the rules govern-ing its relation to semantics) is the major sourceof information for interpretation, even when thesyntactic structure is 'incomplete'.
Clues suchas linear order, case marking, and prepositionsare still potentially available for the remnantconstituents.Van Oirsouw (1987) has recently suggesteda theory in terms of constituent deletion un-der identity which probably covers as muchground as is possibl e in a purely syntax-orientedframework.
4 Interestingly, he was able to statesome surprisingly far-reaching eneralizationsby ignoring all fine points of phrase structureand simply considering the top-level ordering ofconstituents.In a similar fashion, it seems that for forwardgapping, the following simple rule captures aconsiderable range of cases.
It is a straightfor-ward variant of the MinimM Distance Principleproposed by Kuno (1976).4His generalizations can be rephrased without neces-sarily assuming deletion transformations.343(7) P r inc ip le  of  Sur face  Prox imi ty :  A rem-nant constituent tends to fill a role whoseprevious filler is close in surface constituentorder.
(Fillers of the same role tend to be(:lose.
)Consider the following series of examples whichhave increasing amounts of material interveningbetween the two filler constituents.
(8) (a) John gave Peter a bagel and a banana(b) :John gave Peter a bagel yesterday,and a banana(c) :?John gave Peter a bagel yesterdaybefore lunch, and a banana(d) :::John gave Peter a bagel yesterdaybefore lunch after he had begged him,and a banana(9) (a) John lent Peter some money, and 0 00 some clothes(b) ?John lent his brother some money,and 0 0 his girlfriend 0(c) ?John lent me some money, and Paul000Again sentences marked '?'
require appropriatecontrastive intonation to become acceptable (cf.section a.a).Note that (7) is not arbitrary; it makes sensefrom a cognitive point of view.
If we assume thatroles are sequentially processed and have to beretrieved when refilled, it seems natural that theretrieval tends to become more difficult as thetemporal distance from the previous processingevent increases.At a more abstract level, syntagmatic prox-imity can be viewed as symbolizing conceptualrelatedness (Langacker 1985).
Hence the frameunit at the conceptual level corresponds (proto-typically) to a clause unit at the syntactic level.Gapping constructions relate not just the fillersof the roles in a single frame but also the var-ious fillers of the same role in different frames.Therefore we would expect those fillers to besyntagmatically close to the extent hat the tworelational aspects can be accommodated simul-taneously.Note that the case of simple constituent coor-dination can be seen as the optimal solution tomultiple frame realization as far as (7) is con-cerned, and is generally preferred.344(d) John and Paul lent me some moneyIt represents the case where clause unity hasbeen traded off for for the conceptualized unityof the two fillers of the same slot.
(Accordinglywe get a reading where John and Paul act as asingle 'financial entity' only in (9d), but not inthe corresponding gapping construction (9c).
)In (8a), on the other hand, we have a casewhere both clause unity and filler proximity canbe integrated perfectly.
Note that the viewpresented here obliterates the question whether(8a) is the result of constituent coordination ora case of gapping.
A formally oriented theorymight be troubled by a syntactic constructionthat can be 'redundantly' accounted for by twodifferent rules or principles.
For a cognitivelyoriented account such a coincidence presents nocontradiction.
5One might object that (7) makes the wrongpredictions when comparing cases with one rem-nant to those with multiple remnants.
(10) (a) John offered me money and 0 0 0 goodadvice(b) John offered me money, and Paul 0 0good adviceClearly the additional remnant in (10b) in-creases the distance between the two fillers ofthe recipient role of offer, yet both sentencesin (10) seem equally unproblematic.
However,note that as soon as more than one remnantis present heir role assignments mutually con-strain each other, thus effectively making more5Van Oirsouw (1987) has tried to develop a unifiedrule of deletion in coordinations, covering cases otherwisetreated as separate rules, such as gapping, conjunction re-duction, right-node raising, VP deletion, etc.
One of themotivations for such an attempt is that these rules havea certain amount of overlap, i.e.
there are constructionswhich fall into the scope of more than one rule, yet nosingle rule covers all cases.
This is considered undesirablefrom a metatheoretical point of view since it apparentlyintroduces ambiguity and redundancy.A different view may be derived frmn the notion ofradial categories as it arises in human categorization be-havior (Lakoff, 1986).
The sentences to be accountedfor are apparently clustered around a small number ofconstructions (or rules).
These constructions, however,are not completely unrelated; rather they are linked toeach other by those special cases where more than onerule overlap.
Thus the overlap between rules is not un-desirable but cognitively advantageous since it allows thecomplete set of constructions to be perceived as a unifiedphenomenon.information available to the interpretation pro-cess.
(()lie fundamental constraint hat comesinto play is that every filler can fill only onerole.
Furthermore linear order information isnow available.
)3.2 Case  mark ing  and  prepos i t ionsIn languages that case-mark their verb argu-ments we would expect this device to providevery strong (in fact, mandatory) clues for roleassignment.
This can be verified in German,where noun phrases are case-marked, except forthose consisting only of single proper nouns.
(11) (a) Ich sah, wie der Englitnder den Fran-zosen begriigte und der Deutsche 0 (3I saw how the Englishman-NOM theFrenchman-ACC welcomed and theGermanCNOM 13 13(b) ?
:Ich sah, wie Peter Paul begriil3te undHans 13 (3I saw how Peter Paul welcomed andHans 13 0(c) Ich sah, wie Peter Paul begriiflte und(3 Hans I3I saw how Peter Paul welcomed and 0Hans 13(11a) and ( l lb)  have identical constituent struc-ture (up to the noun phrase level) and are bothnon-optimal by proximity considerations.
(1la)can be made acceptable with appropriate con-trastive intonation, while (11b) remains awk-ward.
Instead, the interpreta.tion correspondingto (11c) is easily obtained, again in accordancewith proximity.In English, where case-marklng is generallynot available, prepositions can play a similarrole.
(12) (a) :Bill visited Jim yesterday after din-ner, and 0 13 John 0 13(b) Bill talked to Jim yesterday after din-ner, and {3 13 to John {3Again, both examples are awkward due to thegreat distance between successive role fillers, butin (12b) the prepositional marker to gives astrong clue for the intended attachment of Johnthus enhancing acceptability.3.3 Top ic -Focus  s t ruc tureIn most of the cases seen so far a typical in-tonation pattern will naturally accompany thegapping construction, focusing on and contrast-ing the various fillers of same frame slot.
In fact,as the distance between remnants and previousfiller constituents increases, the interpretationhas to be supported by increasing amounts ofstress.
Note that such a trade-off between syn-tactic proximity and focus structure makes ensein view of the evidential character of gappingproposed in (6).
(13) (a) Linda returned the textbook to the liobrary, but not (3 (3 0 to the one it be-longs to.
(b) Linda returned the textbook to the li-brary, but not 13 13 the lecture tape 13(c) Linda returned the textbook to the li-brary, but not the other students inthe class 0 0(Italics indicate intonation centers.
)This behavior fits well into the general prin-ciple of role assignment proposed.
In terms ofour frame semantics account, focus ett~ctively'foregrounds' a subset of the roles implying thatthose are the ones likely to be refilled.There is evidence that the converse processworks as well, i.e.
that circumstances which'background' certain roles provide support forgapping structures where those roles are not re-filled.
It seems that this is at least part of whathappens in (3).
The preceding sentence sets upMary (i.e.
her) as a topic, relative to which theother roles are foregrounded.Sgall et al (1986) have argued for incorpo-rating descriptions of topic-focus tructures intolinguistic representations (rather than throwingthem into the 'pragmatic wastebasket').
Clearlymore work on the relation between syntacticconfiguration, focus and gapping is needed.
Toget an idea of the possibihties Mong these linesconsider the following: Let us assume, followingSgall et al, that in the absence of special into-nation in English declarative sentences elementstowards the end of the sentence are increasingly'focussed.'
Then the gapping cases in (8) and(9) might be subsumed by focus structure: Re-filled roles tend to occur towards the end of theclause because that is where default focus is lo-cated.
It would be jumping to conclusion, how-ever, to say that all gapping phenomena can be345accounted for in term of focus structure, giventhe other cases discussed here.3.4 Semant ic  const ra in tsFrom the data presented so far we would ex-pect any type of constraint which could poten-tially guide role assignment to have an impacton gapping.
Therefore, semantic ompatibilitybetween the verb semantics and its argumentsshould make a difference in gapping contexts.This is illustrated in the following example pairs.
(14) (a)John likes ice-cream, but not ~ 0chocolategapping, VP deletion, conjunction reduction,right-node raising) lend themselves to a similaranalysis, hopefully using compatible principles.Still, gapping provides a striking case wherea number of linguistic processes --traditionallyperceived as operating at different levels andlargely independently--seem to follow a generalprinciple.
More importantly, the principle canbe understood as arising from cognitive con-straints on sentence processing.
Forward gap-ping is a lucky case in point because ~he roleassignment problem can easily be identified as amajor subtask in the interpretation, thus givingus a handle on a cognitive analysis.
(b) *John likes ice-cream, but not choco-late 0 0 Acknowledgements(15) (a) ?John likes ice-cream, but not O 0 hislittle sister(b) John likes ice-cream, but not his littlesister @ @I would like to thank George Lakoff for intro-ducing me to the view of linguistics that led tothis work, and many helpful cornments along theway.
The author is supported by an IBM Grad-u.ate Fellowship.Note how (15a) is perceived as 'funny' becausethe verb semantics are not kept exactly identi-cal; rather a different sense (and frame) associ-ated with like is invoked in the second clausefi4 ConclusionThe discussion so far leaves a number of im-portant problems.
The syntactic onstraints ongapping are obviously more complex than thesimple rule proposed here, and similarly for thenon-syntacticphenomena (semantic onstraints,focus) I appealed to.New questions arise in the framework pro-posed here, regarding the precise nature of in-teractions between the processing of the variousclues available.
It would certainly be nice if somekind of simple ordering or hierarchy between thevarious factors could be established, althoughthis may not be possible.
The fact that gappingseems to be a phenomenon i volving so manyprocesses and influences also implies that the in-teractions between them may be inherently com-plex and not compactly describable.Another open question is to what extent othertypes of 'deletion transformations' (backwardReferencesFillmore, C. (1982).
Frame Semantics.
In Lin-guistic Society of Korea, ed., Linguistics inthe Morning Calm.
Hanshin, Seoul.Hankamer, J.
(1973).
Unacceptable Ambiguity.Linguistic Inquiry, 4:17-68.Kuno, S. (1976).
Gapping: A Functional Anal-ysis.
Linguistic fnquiry, 7:300-318.Lakoff, G. (1986).
Women, Fire and Danger-ous Things.
University of Chicago Press,Chicago.Langacker, R. (1985).
Foundations of Cogni-tive Grammar, Vol.
1.
Stanford UniversityPress, Stanford.Sgall, P., Haji?ov?, E., & Panevov?, J.
(1986).The Meaning of the Sentence in Its Se-mantic and Pragmatic Aspects.
Academia,Prague.van Oirsouw, R. R. (1987): The Syntax o/Coor-dination.
Croom Hehn, London, New York.6The same humoristic effect is more pronounced insentences such as "First the president cut the salami,then the budget".346
