MORPHO-ASSISTANT:The Proper Treatment of Morphological KnowledgeKir i l  S IMOV,  Ga l ia  ANGELOVA,  E lena  PASKALEVAL ingu is t ic  Mode l l ing  Laboratory ,  Center  for In for lnat icsand  Computer  Technology,  Bu lgar ian  Academy of SciencesAcad.
G. Bonchev  Str.
25a, 1113 Sofia, Bulgaria.1 Computer  Morphology ofSlavonic Languages: State ofthe ArtOne of the main features of Slavonic languages i theircomplex morphological structure.
Unfortunately, cur-rent industrial software in this field (e.g.morphologiealcomponents ofspell checkers) supports only partial an-guage models (and reflects as a rule the more or lessprimitive level of the morphological knowledge of its de-velopers).
In the authors' opinion, the time has cometo develop advanced software products with the follow-ing capabilities:1.
An exhaustive set of linguistic data.
In this w~'the kernel of the products could serve as a com-puter  normat ive  morpho logy  and could evenbe built into professional laboratory systems de-veloped at Research Centers and Universities;2.
Support of large and relatively complete machine-readable dictionaries.
In this way the user wouldonly have to add some specialized terms - ifneeded.The development of industrial products based on ex-austive morphological models will stop the stream oflinguistically incomplete implementations.2 A Brief Descript ion of Bul-garian MorphologyLike the other Slavonic languages, Bulgarian is a highlyinflexional language - one lexeme produces an averageof 10 different wordforms; in the discussed system thereexist 58 types of alternation and 102 inflexional types(46 of them concern nouns).
The verb paradigm isespecially rich - up to 224 fbrms (synthetic and amalytic).
The numerous defects of the paradigm create:special diificulties: for example, perfective verbs reducetheir paradigm by either 10, or 19 members (dependingon their transitivity).
The numerous non-canonical de-fects, determined by the lexico-semantic characteristicsof the individual lexicon unit can only be described ex-plicitly in the dictionary.
The description of Bulgarianmorphology becomes even more complicated becauseof the existence of boundary phenomena bet.ween wordinflexion and derivation which are treated differently invarious descriptions depending o.n the accepted volumeof the paradigm.
Such phenomena re the formationof participles in the verb paradigm, the formatioi~ of"semianalytical" comparison degrees of adjectives andthe formation of aspectual pairs (grammaticalized andlexicalized).In our opinion, a computer model of such a com-plex morphology can be elaborated only by qualifiedlinguists, as far as the architect.ure of morphologicalknowledge is concerned, and it s;houtd work on a sut;-fieiently large lexicon base.
Since Bulgarian lexicog-raphy does not possess its own Zalizniak \[4\] so far.the morphological basis of the system is t'cmncted onall avalaible normative reference books on morphcA-ogy (orthographic dictionnaries, normative gramn,arsand works on Bulgarian inttexion).
We hop,:, that theMORPHO-ASSISTANT system will serve as a basis forfuture implementations and research.3 A Brief Descript ion ofMORPHO-ASS ISTANTMORPHO-ASSISTANT is based on a Bulgarian mor-phology model of a' classificational type where themorphological data are organized in three main sets(stem lexicon, endings lexicon and stem alternationpatterns).
The endings lexicon can be rebuilt as ali,~t of inflexional types as well, where every inflexionaltype is a list of letter values 0f the inflexions of ~achmember of the paradigm.
The processing of Bulgariat~word-inflexion is performed with the help of two basic455ioperations - concatenation of the morphological andthe lexical element (in inflexion) and eventual trans-formation of substrings within the lexical element (inalternation).MORPHO-ASSISTANT provides five main func-tions:1.
Analysis (recognition) of an arbitrary wordform(certain types of mistakes, due to incorrect con-catenation and/or transformation of the lettersubstrings being processed; hypotheses about thesource of incompleteness of user's knowledge arebeing built when the causes of the mistakes areanalysed).2.
Synthesis of an arbitrary form or a group of formsdepending on parameters given by the user.3.
An information-retrieval system in the area of Bul-garian morphology.
In fact it reflects the classifi-cational principles which served as a basis for thecreation of the morphological model.4.
Support of user dictionaries.5.
Test-creation facility.
This function of the pack-age can assist teachers and professors in devis-ing and distributing drills in courses of second-language learning.
This function of MORPHO-ASSISTANT is based on the kernel of the systemrealizing analysis and synthesis of arbitrary forms.4 MORPHO-ASS ISTANT - ASecond Language LearningSystemOnce such an adequate and complete model of the mor-phology is developed and a big basic dictionary is filled,one is tempted to model the acquisition and the usageof this knowledge for the purposes of teaching.
It is onthese principles that the teaching part of MORPHO-ASSISTENT is based.
It works in two modes:?
mode 1: the user of the system is a teacher prepar-ing a variety of tests for his students learning Bul-garian and Russian;?
mode 2: the user of the system is a student per-forming ready test elements.\?e will consider here the first mode.The user is provided with two basic tools: the com-plete computer model of morphology realized by thefirst two basic functions of the system MORPttO-ASSISTANT (organized in an already determined part,of knowledge) and special test-generation riented toolswhich use undetermined knowledge in the designing.The former provide the basic building material and thelatter provide the rules for its assembly when differenttypes of tests are built according to its conception ofthe acquisition and testing of the morphological knowl-edge.
Such are for example:?
the simplest classical tasks on morphologicM anal-ysis or synthesis of a given form or a string of forms(which can be a sentence as well).
This type ofdrills examines the student's ability to analyse orsynthesize wordforms comparing directly the re-sults with those of the same operation, realized bythe first two functions of MORPHO-ASSISTANT.For the testing of knowledge (in mode 2, which willnot be discussed here), also used are the createddiagnostic tools for pointing out the types of mis-takes when wordforms are generated incorrectly(see above III).
Thus the computer has actuallyaccepted the functions of a tester of knowledge.In the design o f  the testing part these functionscan be enriched only by entering rammatical in-formation.
We have in mind that the user mayto some extent change the name of the grammat-ical categories (e.g.
"present ense", "pres.tense","present", "pres."
or "pr.")
and the order of theircoocurence in the set of grammatical features fora given wordform.?
a second typeof  drills tests the morphologicalknowledge(already situated in the framework ofthe given sentence).
Thestandard method in thiskind of testing is to give an inputsentence, in whichcertain wordforms are replaced by the basicforms.At the output hese wordforms hould be restored.These arethe well-known tasks of the type "Putthe given words into thenecessary form."
Here, aswell, the computer entirely replaces the teacher inchecking the student's work, because it restorestheMready given wordforms in mode 1.
To thiskind of drills alsobelong the drills in which thestudent corrects the spellingmistakes deliberatelymade by the teacher.in a third type of drills certain morphological char-acteristics are replaced correctly by others (forexample, achange in the grammaticM person ornumber of the narrator, achange of the verb tensein a given story).
Similarly to the previous typeof drills, the organisation of knowledge goes be-yond the framework of the first two functions ofMORPHO-ASSISTANT, although an intelligenthelp-system for diagnostics and correction of mis-takes is provided, which can be considered as a.456 2superstructure over the diagnostics of MORPHO-ASSISTANT.?
the :fourth type of drills differs in principle fromthe others in the degree of grammatical abstrac-tion ~ while the first three types deal with con-crete lexieal units and their grammatical charac-teristics, the fourth type of drills works with gram-matical models of characteristics of a certain seriesof words in the sentence connected through a cer-tain mechanism.
These series form a so- calledunification string consisting of two elements - uni-fying (input) and unified (output) elemenl; (theycan consist of more than one word).
The patternwhich forms new unification strings is given byconcrete wordforms and the test generating sys-tem itself finds the elements ubjected to unifica-tion.
Such a word string can express phenomenasuch as syntactic agreement of any type, correct.generation of a pronoun from its antecedent etc.Such drills are usually formulated as follows: "Pillin the blanks with the suitable words".
The drillcan provide a list of lexemes in their basic formsor give the opportunity to choose freely the lexicalunits (relying on the :rich lexicon of the system).In fact, the mechanism connecting the elements ofthe unification string models phenomena from linguis-tic levels higher than morphology - syntax (as in thecase with ~greement) and even semantics.
In the latterwe can imagine for example the connection betweenthe verb tense and a given type of temporal adverbs(under the condition that the entry of the adverb in-eludes its type), the connection between some verbsand pronouns pointing near or distant objects.
Withthe extension of the volume of the phenomena in theunification string it becomes more difficult to formulatethem with the help of the grammatical categories ofthe wordform.
The extension of the linguistic scope ofthese tasks depends to a great extent on the user's skillto formulate .g.
the syntactic dependencies throughthe morphological categories.Providing the user only with the "shell" of the test el-ements, the system works with a kind of undetermined:morphological knowledge, tending to get adapted inthis way to the cognitive model of the user who gen-erates the test.
Thus its teaching effects directly de-pend on the teacher's ability to find the correspondenceamong the elements of the various levels of language.lexemes \[3\].
Our future aim is to develop a series ofproducts assisting the use and the study of Slavonicmorphology.
An analogous product is being developedfor Russian in cooperation with the Institute of l~us-sian language of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR;the basic dictionary of the system, based on Zalizniak'sdictionary \[4\], contains nearly 100 000 lexemes.
A pos-sibility for simultaneous work with both languages willalso be supported.The test generation system doesn't require an orien-tation towards a concrete language.
The only restric-tion on its reasonable application is that the processedlanguage must have a sufllciently developed morphol-ogy of the inflexional type.We also plan to develop a computer model of thederivational morphology of Bulgarian based on the lex-icon of MORPttO-ASSISTANrC.References.
Paskaleva,  E. Bulgarian Morphology in LogicProgramming.- Sludies i~ Honor of BerTzardVauquois.
Linguistica Com.pulazionale, Pisa, 1989(to appear).2.
Avgust inova,  T. and  Paskaleva,  E. Com-putational Modelling of lnflexional Morphology(Based on Bulgarian and /{ussian l_)ata).- ?
'lavicaHelsingienaia, 1989, Vol.
10.3.
MOI{PHO-ASSISTANT (brief descript.ion).
\] 9S9Humanities Computing Yearbook, ClarendonPress, Oxford.4.
3aa~3Hgi~ A .A .
i'paMga'r~\[qec~Hi~ cJIo~:~l)F,pyccl<oro ~i3bI~a: CJiol~oI~3Menem~e.
M., 1977.5 Future DevelopmentsMOI%PHO-ASSISTANT will be offered on the softwaremarket with a basic dictionary of 60 000 Bulgarian3 457
