Phonological Processing of Speech VariantsJulle CARSON-BERNDSENUnlversi~t Blelefeld,Fakulttit fOr Ungulsttk und Llteratutwissenschatt,Poslfach 8840,D-4800 Bielefeld 1.Abs~ctThis paper describes a strategy for theextension of the phonological lexicon in order that non-standard forms which arise in fast speech may beprocessed by a speech recognition system.
By way ofillustration, an outline of the phonological processing ofstandard wordforms by the phonological parser (PhoPa)is given and then the extension procedure which is basedon this phonological parser is discussed.
The lexiconextension procedure has two stages: phonotacticextension which involves the introduction of additionalrestrictions into the phonotactic network for the standardlanguage in the form of metarules describingphonological processes, and specialised word modelconstruction whereby for each standard phonemicwordforrn a verification et which contains all variants ofthis standard form is compiled.
The complete systemserves as a phonologically oriented lexicon developmenttool, and its theoretical interest lies in its contribution tothe field of speech variant learning.1.
Inffoduc~onThis paper is concerned with a particular aspectof computational phonology, namely the processing ofnon-standard forms which may arise in fast speech.Since no native speaker of a language consistentlyadheres to a given standard pronunciation in normalconversation, it is an important attribute of any speechrecognition system from a robustness point of view thatit be able to process such non-standard forms.
Thesenon-standard forms will be referred to in this paper asspeech variants.
Speech variants are systematic, andmay arise as a result of a phonological process (e.g.assimilation) or may express some dialect characteristicof the speaker.
In the proposal presented below, thestandard form Is taken to be the phonemic representationin the lexicon and speech variants are taken to besystematically learned and lexicalised.
It is shown thatvariants of a standard form may be learned on the basisof a metarule describing a particular phonologicalprocess.
This avoids the necessity for a lookup-table ofthe variants belonging to particular forms since these aregenerated according to the restrictions given in themetarule.
Thus, during analysis, both standard and non-standard forms may be processed.2.
Phonological ProcessingThe phonological parser, PhoPa, described In Carson(1988) uses as Its linguistic knowledge base a networkrepresentation of the phonotactics of a particularlanguage in order to parse the phonetic sequence intophonemic syllables.
The phonotactio network is feature-based and serves as a phonological word templateconsisting of nonreduced and reduced syllables.Following Church (1987), allophonic information isconsidered to be important for distinguishing syllableboundaries and thus a canonlcalisation step is necessaryin order to filter out the variant information which is notrelevant atthe phonemic level.
In PhoPa a feature-basedtransduction relation is responsible for translating betweenthe allophonio and the phonemic domains.
A transitionlabel in the network consists of two feature bundles, aninput transition bundle and an output transition bundleeach containing C-features (Carson, 1988).
C-features arethose features which are needed to characterise soundclasses which participate in a particular phonetic process.1 21Using a restricted form of unification, an acceptancefunction tests whether a particular allophonic input stringof feature bundles may be processed.
Since the inputfeature bundles may be underspecified, a redundancycomponent consisting of feature cooccurrence restrictionstests for feature-value consistency and attempts tooptimise the the information in the feature bundles.The processing strategy used in PhoPa is thusphonetic data driven or variant-invariant.
With the core ofPhoPa only wordforms in the standard language can beanalysed.variants of canonical phonemic forms.
If we allow astandard phonemic form to have more than one variantthen an exhaustive synthesis process would generate allpossible variants of the standard wordform.It is in fact the case that the network context providesexacty the defined search space which is necessary forthe automatic speech variant learning extension andfurthermore it allows for structurally based heuristicswhich reduce this search space during synthesis.
Aftersynthesis, speech variants are integrated into the lexiconfor efficient later recognition; this is clearly expensive onstorage, however.Phonetic LevelI String of feature bundles \]r\[-U_nification Test_\] II dundancy C mponenJilAcceptanoe Function~\]StandardI Phonotactic\[ Network1~kInterpreter~ IlI~_edundanoy C~.
mp?nent~Jl String of feature bundles lwith syllable boundaries |marked |Phonemic LevelFig.
1: Structural Overview of PhoPaFor the purpose of the discussion which follows,it is important o note that the phonotactic transductionnetwork used in PhoPa is In theory non-directional, that isto say, the transduction interpreter can be applied toeither the allophonic (phonetic or variant) or the phonemic(invariant) level.
Thus, a processor which uses the variant-invariant strategy performs analysis and a processorwhich uses the invariant-variant strategy performssynthesis.
The synthesis process therefore generates3.
Cla,tslficatlon of Speech VariantsSpeech variants can occur either as a result ofphonological processes, for example elision, epentheslsor assimilation, or they can arise in line with a regional ordialectal sound change.
Speech variants can, however, beclassifed according to three abstract processes based onsegments: deletion, insertion and substitution.
Each ofthese abstract processes has a corresponding abstractrule type.
A deletion rule deletes a whole segment andcan also modify feature values in neighbouring segments.An Insertion rule inserts a whole segment and asubstitution rule is applied to single features in particularsegments having the effect of substituting one segmentfor another.
All rule types require a context consisting ofdirectly neighbouring segments.
However, this contextcan in some cases be empty.Each of the abstract processes can only occur within aparticular ange of the syllable.
On the basis of Germandata, the following are the "most probable" ranges for thethree processes.
Deletion and insertion occur only in therhyme (peak and/or coda) of the syllable and substitutionhas the whole syllable as its range (i.e.
it can occur in theonset or peak or coda).
These facts allow for a structure-based heuristic which defines the application range foreach process type and thus limits the search spacerequired for the extension.
Since the syllable structure isdirectly represented in the phonotactio network (see Fig.3 below), the search through the network can be restrictedto a particular sub-structure (onset, rhyme eto.
- for bothnonreduced and reduced syllables).
Considering thesyllable structure in terms of a tree, the heuristic definesthe optimal starting point for the search and the searchproceeds in a depth-first fashion through the syllable tree.22 2Thus, since the application range for an insertion rule isthe rhyme, the optimal starting point for the search is thepeak.
If the search is unsuccessful in the peak then thecoda is searched.Onset RhymePeak CodaFig.
2: Syllable TreeSpeech variants are described by declarativemetarules which describe a particular phenomenon.
Themetarules have a left hand side and a right hand side,each of which consists of feature bundles, and they mustbelong to one of the abstract rule types mentioned above.Thus, epenthesis will be described by a metarule ofinsertion rule type.
The epenthesis of a homorgani?voiceless plosive between a nasal and a an apical fricativein German, for example, would be described by thefollowing metarule:Li cot /ant j\[i ,a. l \[ i cont I I cont l ant\] s t r id  I s t r id \ ]co j v.o,'o J ant Jant |COt JThis caters for the forms \[gAmps\] for/gAins/, German:<Gains>; \[gAnts\] for /gAns/, German: <Gans>;\[ge#zAg"ks\] for/ge#zAg"s/, German: <Gesangs>.As can be seen, it is possible to describe whatwould normally be thought of as two processes, namelyan epenthesis process and an assimilation process, interms of a single metarule.4.
The Extension ProcedureThe extension procedure consists of two stages:phonotactic extension, whereby additional restrictions areadded to the phonotaotic network, and specialised wordmodel construction which results in an extendedphonological exicon.The phonotactio extension is concerned with theautomatic extension of the phonotactic network byintroducing new transitions.
The extension procedure hastwo input components, the metarule and the lingisticknowledge base, namely the phonotactic network.
Sincein its original form the metarule cannot be directlyIncorporated into the phonotaotio network, the extensionprocedure first applies a metarule Interpreter whichproduces a graph representation for the metarule.
Thegraph representation corresponds to the networkrepresentation exactly, that is to say that each transitionin the graph consists of two feature bundles: an inputspecification and an output specification.
The outputtransistion specification is always the phonemic form.When the graph representation has been produced, apossible unification is sought for the network and the lefthand side of the metarule.
This involves a search throughthe networkwithin the range defined by a heuristic.
In thecase of a substitution rule, for example, a unificationwould be sought first among the transitions of the onsetand then among the transitions of the rhyme.
In fact allpossible unifications are sought within the applicationrange of the process type, since a metarule may beunderspecified and thus may apply In more than onefully-specified context.Onset:?
, -RhymePeak \[ Coda%%Fig.
3: Network StructureIf the left hand side of the metarule is unifiable with thenetwork, the right hand side of the metarule is insertedinto the network at the relevant place, by unifying the first3 23and last states of the rule with the relevant states in thenetwork.
This phase of the extension procedure results inadditional restrictions being added into the phonotacticnetwork.When the phonotacti?
extension is complete,specialised word models are compiled on the basis of theextended phonotactic network.
The task of the compileris to construct for each lexicon entry (i.e.
standardphonemic form) a corresponding word model containingall variants of the entry.
The compiler uses an invariant-variant processing strategy, and thus transduotion takesplace in reverse, that is to say, a translation between thephonemic and the allophonic domains.
The compilernotes the paths which are consulted In the extendedphonotactie network and produces a verification net forthe input word.
Word models are therefore subnets of thecomplete network.
Thus, on the basis of a metaruledescribing a particular phenomenon, the phonologicallexicon can learn new variants of a standard wordform.5.
ConclusionThe extension procedure and the phonologicalparser constitute part of the lexical component of aspeech processing system.
They provide the possibilityof analysing some types of non-standard forms whicharise in normal conversation.
The extended phonologicallexicon provides top-down information about the structureof the word.
By adding appropriate metarules, theresulting extended network may be used for parsing non-standard forms by transducing them into a standardphonemic form.Since the long-term aim of a speech recognitionsystem is to be able to cope with an unlimited vocabularyand to be speaker-independent, being able to processsuch speech variants plays an increasingly important rolein speech recognition research.The phonological parser and the extension procedurehave been implemented in Arity PROLOG V5.1.The extension procedure described here wasdeveloped as part of the research project PhonologicalRule Systems at the University of Bielefeld which wasfinanced by the Research Institute of the DeutscheBundespost.6.
B ib l iographyCarson, J.
(1988): Unification and Transduction inComputational Phonology.
In: Proceedings of the 12thInternational Conference on Computationa/ Linguistics,106-111.Carson, J.; Gibbon, D.; Kn&pel, K. (1989): interim Report31.03.89 Forschungspro jekt :  Entwick lungphonologischer Regelsysteme und Untersuchungen zurAutomatisierung der Regelerstellung fear Zwecke derautomatischen Spracherkennung.
Research Projectfinanced by the Deutsche Bundespost.Carson-Berndsen, J.; Gibbon, D.; Kn&pel, K. (1989): FinalReport 30.09.89 Forschungsprojekt: Entwicklungphonologlscher Rogelsysteme und Untersuchungen zurAutomatislernng der Regelerstellung for Zwecke derautomatischen Spracherkennung.
Research Projectfinanced by the Deutsche Bundespost.Church, K. (1987): Phonological parsing in speechrecognition.
Boston: Kluwer Academic Publishers.Gibbon, D. (1985): Prosodfo Parsing in English and Akan.Paper given at the 21st Intemat/onal Conference onContrastive Linguistics.
Blazejewko, Poland.24 4
