An Augmented Chart Data Structure with EfficientWord Lattice Parsing Scheme In Speech Recognition ApplicationsLee-Feng Chien*, K. J. Chen** and Lin-Shan Lee** Dept.
of Computer Science and Information Engineering,National Taiwan University,Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C., Tel: (02) 362-2444.
** The Institute of Information Science, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C.AbstractIn this paper, an augmented chart data structurewith efficient word lattice parsing scheme in speechrecognition applications i proposed.
The augmentedchart and the associated parsing, algorithm canrepresent and parse very efficiently a lattice of wordhypotheses produced in speech recognition with highdegree of lexical ambiguity .without changing thefundamental principles of chart parsing.
Every word!attice can be mapped to the augmented chart with theordering and connection relation among wordhypotheses being well preserved in the augmentedchart.
A jump edge is defined to link edgesrepresenting word hypotheses physically separated butpractically possible to be connected.
Preliminaryexperimental results show that with the augmentedchart parsing all possible constituents of the inputword lattice can be constructed and no constituentneeds to be built more than once.
This will reduce thecomputation complexity significantly especially whenserious lexical ambiguity exists in the input wordlattice as in many speech recognition problems.
Thisaugmented chart parsing is thus a very useful andefficient approach to language processing problems inspeech recognition applications.1.
IntroductionIn this paper, the conventional chart data structurehas been augmented for efficient word lattice parsingto handle the high degree of ambiguities encounteredin speech recognition applications.
A word lattice is aset of word hypotheses produced by some acousticsignal processor in continuous peech recognitionapplications which possibly includes problems uch asword boundary overlapping, lexical ambiguities,missing or extra phones, recognition uncertainty anderrors, etc.
The purpose of parsing such a word latticeis to efficiently and accurately obtain the mostpromising candidate sentence at acceptablecomputation complexity by means of grammaticalconstraints and appropriate data structure design.
Forexample, in the process of continuous speechrecognition, ithappened very often that not oaly morethan one words may be produced for a given segmentof speech (such as homonyms, especially for somelanguages with large number of homonyms uch asChinese language (Lee, 1987) ), but many competingword hypotheses can be produced at overlapping,adjoining, or separate sediments of the acoustic sig-nalwithout a set of aligned word boundaries.
T,,,is willresult in huge number of sentence hypotheses, each ofwhich formed by one combination of a sequence ofword hypotheses, uch that exhaustively parsing allthese sentence hypotheses with a conventionai textparser is computational inefficient or evenprohibitively difficult.
A really efficient approach istherefore desired.
Several algorithms for parsing suchword lattices had been proposed (Tomita, 1986;60 1Chow, 1989).
These algorithms had been shown to beve~:y efficient in parsing less ambiguous naturallartguages such as English obtained in speechrecognition.
However, all of them are primarilystrictly from left-to-right, hus with relatively limitedapplications for cases in which other strategies such asisland-driven (Hayes, 1986) or even right-to-left aremore useful (Huang, 1988), for example, corruptedword lattice with extra, missing or erroneous phonesin speech recognition (Ward, 1988).
On the otherhand, chart has been an efficient working structurewidely used in many natural language processingsystems and has been shown to be a very effectiveapproach (Kay, 1980), but it is basically designed toparse a sequence of fixed and known words instead ofambiguous word lattice.
In this paper, theconventional chart is therefore xtended or augmentedsuch that it is able to represent a word lattice; while theconventional functions, operations and properties of achart parser as well as some useful extensions such asthe use of lexicalized grammars and island-drivenparsing will not be affected by the augmentation at all.Therefore t2he augmented chart parsing proposed inthis paper is a very efficient and attractive parsingscheme for many language processing problems inspeech recognition applications.
A word lattice parserbased on the augmented chart data structure proposedhere has been implemented and tested for Chineselanguage and the preliminary results are veryencouraging.In the following, Section 2 introduces the conceptof the augmented chart and Section 3 describes themapping procedure to map an input word lattice to theaugmented chart.
The parsing scheme and somefitrther extensions are discussed in Sections 4; whilesome preliminary experimental results are presentedirt Section 5.
Concluding remarks are finally given inSection 6.2.
The Augmented ChartThe conventional chart parsing algorithm wasdesigned to parse a sequence of words.
In this sectionthe chart is augmented for parsing word lattices.
Thepurpose is to efficiently and accurately find out allgrammatically valid sentence hypotheses and theirsentence structures from a given word lattice based ona grammar.A word lattice W is a partially ordered set of wordhypotheses, W = {w 1 ..... win}, where each wordhypothesis wi, i=l .... ,m, is characterized by begin, thebeginning point, end, the ending point, cat, thecategory, phone, the associated phonemes, and name,the word name of the word hypothesis.
These wordhypotheses are sorted in the order of their endingpoints; that is, for every pair of word hypotheses wiand wj, i<j implies end(wi) <= end(wj).
Also, twoword hypotheses w i and wj are said to be connected ifthere is no other word hypothesis located exactiybetween the boundaries of the two word hypotheses,i.e., if w i _< wj and there does not exist any other wordhypothesis wk such that w i < w k _<wj, where w i _< wjfff end(wi) <= begin(wj).
A sentence hypothesis thena sequence of connected word hypotheses electedfrom the given word lattice, and a sentence hypothesisis grammatical valid only if it can be generated by agrammar.
As an example, a sample word latticeconstructed for demonstration purpose is shown on thetop of Fig.
1, in which only the word sequence "Taddoes this."
is a valid sentence hypothesis.The augmented chart is a directed uncyclic graphspecified by a two-tuple <V, E>, where V is asequence of vertices and E is a set of edges.
Eachvertex in V represents an end point of some wordhypotheses in the input word lattice, while the edge set2 61is divided into three disjoint groups: inactive, activeand jump edges.
As were used in a conventional chart,an inactive edge is a data structure to represent acompleted constituent, while an active edge representsan incomplete constituent which needs some othercomplete constituents tocompose alarger one.
A jumpedge, however, is a functional edge which links twodifferent edges to indicate their connection relation(described below) and guide the parser to searchthrough all edges connected toeach active edge duringparsing.
The pailial ordering relation among the edgesin the augmented chart can first be defined accordingto the order of the boundary vertices.
Two edge E i andEj are then said to be connected (i.e.
EConn(E i, Ej) =true) only when the end vertex of one of them is thebegin vertex of the other, or there exists a jump edgelinking them together.
For example, in the chartrepresentation f the sample word lattice in Fig: 1 (onthe bottom of the figure, the details will be explainedin the next section), EConn(E 3, E 6) = true due to theexistence of J~np3 linking E 3 and E 6, but EConn(E 1 ,Th~ ~r~k:  ~m:l  lanio~w I:(5, 20, N, t4d,Tad) w3:('/5, 42.
V, t~)  wS: (45.60, N;tis, thi~)_ _ _ =, , I ,~, , ,~ q \] , .
I I .
.
fV t)o, ' \ [  ~C t V V '~ YV,,:5 ?
'1~ ~ ?
~,b~*30 <3~,b~.
<~5 ,b~f~ 5, b> <60, e:,<62,e~,T I / i~ / , t  I I~M~ I I I I i Ii I I~=F~ I I I / I i I I I II I I / I t  I t  Ir ~fEI:TKI~N3 I I~: t ?
: ~ I m 11 I 2- -L IIFig.1 In this figure, on the top is a set of overlappedword hypotheses which are assumed to be produced byan acoustic signal processor in speech recognition,where each rectangular shape denotes the timesegment of the acoustic signal for the word hypothesisand above it is the 5-tuple information, from left toright, i.e., begin, end, cat, phone and name,respectively; on the middle are the sorted wbp's; andon the bottom is the resulting initial chart.E6) = false due to E 3 and E 4 existing in between.
Thisjump edge and the new connection relation is theprimary difference between the conventional chartand our augmented chart.3.
The  Mapping from a Word Lattice to theAugmented  Char tBefore parsing is performed, any input wordlattice has to be mapped to the augmented chart.
At thebeginning of the mapping procedure, we have to firstconsider a situation in which additional wordhypotheses should be inserted into the input lattice toavoid any important word being missed in thesentence.
A good example for such situation is in Fig.2 where the time segment for the word hypothesis wi(the word "same") is from 10 to 20, and that for wj(the word "message") is from 14 to 30.
Apparently forthis situation four cases are all possible: w i is a correctword but wj is not, wj is correct but w i is not, both w iand wj are correct because they share a commonphoneme (m) in the co-articulated continuous acousticsignal, or both w i and wj are not correct.
A simpleapproach to be used here is that two additional wordhypotheses Wil (also "same", but from 10 to 17) andwj 1 (also "message", but from 17 to 30) are insertedinto the word lattice W, such that all the above fourpossible cases will be properly considered uringparsing and no any word will be missed.wi\[ same \] "iFsame II I !
-I !
I I - - - - -qI0 14 20 30 10 14 20 30Fig.
2.
The situation in which additional:wordhypotheses are inserted62 3After the above additional word hypothesesinsertion, every boundary point (either beginning orending) of any word hypothesis of W should then bemapped to a vertex in the chart.
All these wordboundary points (wbp's) have to be first sorted into anordered sequence (indicated by a function Order(x),where x is any wbp); the definition of Order(x) is asfollows.
To any pair of wbp's x and y, if x and y aredistinct hen their order is based on order in time; if xand y are identical then the begi,ming wbp (denoted byb) L,; after the ending wbp (denoted by e).
For eachwbp x, the corresponding vertex is then assigneddepending on its preceding wbp y as described below.As was shown in Fig.
3, for totally four possible casesof x and y, i.e.
bb (y is a beginning wbp and x is also" abeginning wbp), be, eb, ee, only for the case be (y is abeginning wbp but x an ending wbp), two differentvertices hould be assigned to x and y to preserve theord.
::ring relation between the corresponding wordhypotheses of x and y.
But in all the other three cases,x and y can l:u'.
given the same vertex.
Let the functionVertex(x) denotes this assignment.case (i) bb c~oe (h ~) bev W'X -- '1~ ~YXOtx)y x V~fy) V~x(x)c~se (iii) eby XFig.
3.caseOv)eWex(y) = Vmex(x)Vertex assignment of the word boundary pointsNow, for each word hypothesis w i , an initialinactive edge can be constructed.
The functionEdge(w i) for a word hypothesis w i is then exactlyspecified by the two vertices assigned to the two wbp'sof w i , i.e.
Edge(w i) = < Vertex(begin(wi)),Vertex(end(wi))>.
Finally, for any pair of vertices viand vj, if there isn't any complete initial inactive edgeexisting between them, a jump edge from v i to vj isconstructed to link v i and vj.
Using the aboveprocedure, Fig.
1 also shows the mapping results ofthe sample word lattice.
The sorted wbp's (specifiedby a time scale and whether it is a beginning or endingwbp) are on the middle of the figure, and the resultinginitial chart is on the bottom.
It can be shown that theabove mapping procedure has the following niceproperties: first, the ordering and connection relationsamong all word hypotheses in the word lattice can becompletely preserved among the corresponding edgesin the augmented chart; second, when the input wordlattice can be reduced to a simple sequence of wordhypotheses, the augmented chart representation canalso be reduced to a conventional chart representation.4.
The Augmented Chart  Parsing and SomeFurther  ExtensionsThe fundamental principle of chart parsing is:Whenever an active edge A is connected toan inactiveedge I which satisfies A's conditions for extensions, anew edge N covering both is built.
Now, in theaugmented chart parsing this principle is still held;except hat the inactive dge I doesn't have to share thesame vertex with the active edge A; instead it can beseparated from the active edge A, as long as thereexists a jump edge linking edges A and I. Theaugmented chart parsing scheme proposed here is notonly very useful and efficient o rule-based grammarapplications, but is equally useful and efficient in otherapplications uch as a lexicalized grammar (e.g.4 63,HPSG(Pollard, 1987) ) in which the syntacticalrelationships are stated as part of the lexicaldescription, and in the augmented chart the structuresto be assigned to the input may be extended toattribute-value matrices (complex feature structures)instead of syntactic parsing trees and the recognitionalgorithm may rely on the head-driven slot and fillerprinciple instead of derivation oriented recognition.Such an extension is in fact straightforward.Furthermore, in some other approaches toincrease theflexibility of the slot and filler principle, such as islandparsing (Stock, 1988) and discontinuous segmentedparsing (Hellwig, 1988), the augmented chartproposed here can also be easily extended and applied.5.
Some Preliminary Experimental ResultsIn order to see how the above, concept "foraugmented chart parsing works, a bottom-up andleft-to-right parser based on the proposed augmentedchart (also capable of perforating conventional chartparsing) has been implemented and tested in somepreliminary experiments.
The test data base includes alarge number of Chinese word lattices obtained froman acoustic signal processor which recognizesMandarin speech.
Due to the existence of largenumber of homonyms in Chinese language anduncertainty and errors in speech recognition, veryhigh degree of Iexical ambiguity exists in the inputlattices.
One example of such Chinese word lattice is inFig.
4.
The results show that, all possibte constituentsfor the input word lattice can be constructed and noany constituent eeds to be built more than once usingthe augmented chart parsing.
According to theexperimental results, the edge reduction ratio (theratio of the total number of edges built in theaugmented chart parsing to the total number of edgesbuilt in conventional chart parsing) is on the order of1/30 ~ 1/80 for our input Chinese word lattices.Although this ratio depends eriously on the degree ofambiguity of the input word lattices, the computationcomplexity can always be reduced significantly.~.3 ~g.1 ~c~ceFig.4 An example in Mandarin Chinese is givenhere.
It is obtained from the Chinese sentenceutterance: ni-3 'you' shr-4 'are' yi-2 'a' jia-4 'set'huei-4 'can' tieng-1 'listen to' guo-2 iu-3 'Mandarin'de-5 'which' dian-4 nan-3 'computer' (you are acomputer which can listen to Mandarin, ~ ~-~--~~-~\[~,~.
'~j~ ), where the syllables arerepresented in Mandarin Phonetic Symbols II(MPS-II) with the integers (1 to 5) indicating the tone.The possible word hypotheses are shovm above wherethe horizontal axis denotes the time ordering of thesyllables and the vertical scale shows thecorresponding word hypotheses for the syllables, inwhich only those denoted by "*" are correct words.
Inthis example all the syllables are actually clearlyidentified and correctly recognized and therefore allword hypotheses are in fact well aligned inboundaries, except hat two syllables (the first syllablehi-3 and the sixth syllable tieng-1) are confused by asecond candidate (li-3 and tiang-1, respectively).Therefore the ambiguity is primarily due to the largenumber of homonyms in Chinese language.
The linesegments under each word hypothesis indicateswhether the word hypothesis i composed of one ortwo syllables.
In our analysis, as many as 470 sentencehypotheses are obtained from this example wordlattice with most syllables correctly recognized, andthe experimental results show that for this example64 5~totally 58132 edges have to be built in conventionalchart parsing, while only 925 edges are necessary inthe.
augmented chart parsing.
The edge reduction ratiofor this example is 1/62.8.6.
Concluding RemarksIn this paper, an augmented chart data structurefc,~' word lattice parsing is proposed, it is able torepresent a~ad parse a lattice of words very efficientlywithout changing the fundamental principles,operations and applications of chart parsing.
With thisproposed approach, all possible constituents of thein!rot word lattice can be constructed and noconstituent eeds to be built more than once.
This wiltreduce the computation complexity significantlyespecially when serious lexical ambiguity exists in theinput word lattice.
It is a general parsing scheme,in<lependent of the granmmr formalisms and parsingstrategies, thus can be easily extended to differentapplications.
This augmented chart parsing scheme istherefore a very useful and efficient approach forspeech recognition applications.Rc~ferences:Chow Yen-Lu and Ronkos Salim.
(1989).
SpeechUnderstanding Using A Unification Grammar.Proceedings of the International Conference onAcoustic, Speech and Signal Processing, pp.
727-730.Hu;img C. R. and Shin Y. L. (1988) Unification-basedAnalysis and Parsing Strategy of Mandarin ParticleQuestion.
Proceedings of International ComputerSymposium, Taipei, pp-38-43.Hayes P.J.
et al (1986).
Parsing Spoken Language:ASemantic Caseframe Approach.
Proceedings of theInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, pp.
587-592.Hellwing P. (1988).
Chart Parsing According to theSlot and Filler Principle.
Proceedings of theInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, pp.
242~244.Kay M. (1980).
Algorithm Schemata and DataStructures in Syntactic Processing.
Xerox ReportCSL~80-12, Pala Alto.Lee L. S. et al (1987).
The Preliminal)7 Resuhs of aMandarin Dictation Machine based upon ChineseNatural Language Analysis.
Proceedings of theInternational Joint Conference on ArtificialIntelligence.Pollard C. and Sag i.
A.
(1987).
Information-BasedSyntax and Semmltics, Vol.
1.
Fundamentals, CSLILectm'e Notes, No.
12., Stanford Universky.Stock O.et al (1988).
Island Parsing and BidirectionalCharts.
Proceedings of the international Conference.on Computational Linguistics, pp.
636o641,Tomita M. (1986).
An Efficient Word Lattice ParsingAlgorithm for Continuous Speech Recognition.Proceedings of the International Conference onAcoustic, Speech and Signal Processing, pp.1569-1572.Ward W. H. et al (1988).
Parsing Spoken PhrasesDespite Missing Words.
Proceedings of theinternational Conference on Acoustic, Speech andSignal Processing, pp.
275-278.6 65
