Discourse AnaphoraJ oke  Dor repaa lOTS RUU Ut rechtdor repaa l@hutruu59.B ITnet1 .AbstractThis paper reports on a model that servesanaphora resolution.
A distinction will be madebetween possible antecedents and preferred an.-tecedents.
The set of linguistically possible can--didates will be detined in terms of compatibilityand recency.
Preferred antecedents are a sub-set of the possible antecedents, elected by theapplication of extralinguistic knowledge.
Moti-vation for the particular design and comparisonwith other approaches are extensive.2 In t roduct ionBoth in formM semantics and in NLP, the issueof (pro)nominal reference has aroused much in-terest.
Formal discourse semantics was mainlyinspired by the Discourse Representation The-ory developed by Kamp (1981) and, the closelyrelated, File.
Change Semantics (tIeim, 1982).
Instandard I)R;I', hardly any restrictions were im-posed on the relation between antecedent andanaphor.This contrasts trongly with work done in theNLP area.
Knowledge of the world and intricateinferences play key roles in restricting the num-ber of antecedents for anaphora.
Insights fromartificial intelligence, linguistics and psychologyare all integrated into complex procedures.The model I will describe in this paper considersthe linguistic context as a means to restrict thelarge :number of interpretations that an expres-sion in principle has to a limited number of alter-natives.
Knowledge of the world and/or prefer-ence of one alternative to the others may only re-strict the domain farther, never stretch it.
Thisview will be defended in the paper.
The formerlimitation is discussed under the name of 'possi-ble' analyses, the latter is christened 'preferred'analyses.I will first introduce the model in the next sec-tion.
Sections 4 and 5 will motivate the approachand compare it to other proposals.
Section 6will describe and discuss the so-called associa-tive anaphora nd show that the model adoptedcan be extended to non-standard anaphoric ref-erence a.s well.3 The  Mode lThe model makes a distinction between possi-ble and pre fer red  antecedents  for a particu-lar a11aphor.
The wellformedness definition be-low expresses the relation between an anaphorand its possible antecedents.
Key notions in thedefinition are compatibi l i ty and recency.Def in i t ion 1 An  antecedent Ant  is a possibleantecedent for  an anaphor Ana  iff- Ant  and Ana  are compatible- ~o antecedent compatible with Ana  occurs iu amore recent unitThe units referred to in the definition relate tounits in the discourse.
'\['he data structure re-95chap.
1Figure 1: The linguistic contextflects the structure of the text, be it that onlycurrent units show internal structure.
Pigure 1pictures the state of affairs at the time the 4thsentence in chapter 3, paragraph 3 of a book isbeing processed.
The current chapter, paragraphand sentence show substructure, the others haveno internal structure at all.
1Recency and compatibility are the central no-tions in the definition.
The notion of recencyneeds no further explanation.
Its importancefor anaphora resolution has been demonstratedconvincingly by ttobbs (1978).
Compatibilitydemands agreement of linguistic features rele-vant to anaphora resolution.
Pronoun resolutionsignals the need for features such as category,person, number, gender and humanness.
Deft-nite NP resolution requires a more sophisticatedmechanism.
It should also be able to recognizerelations uch as synonymy, hyperonymy etc.Besides the wellformedness definition, one mightwant to adopt preference rules to select a (smallset of) p re fer red  antecedent (s )  from the setof possible ones.
I will not particularly be con-cerned with the preference rules in this paper,though I do foresee two areas that will deter-mine the nature of these rules.
The first is worldknowledge.
In some cases, only extremely com-plex inferences can decide between two linguisti-cally equally preferred antecedents.
The secondis anaphoric preference.
An anaphor sometimesprefers an object to a subject or a pronoun to aflfll NP, everything else being equal.
The truth is1The model tmintendedly suggests that  the units aresyntact ic  in nature  and in l inear order.
A more realis-tic picture includes semant ic  uni ts  and substructures,  asargued for by a.o.
Grosz(1977), Scha et.al.
(1988)that everything else seldom is equal.
Preferenceis very subtle and influenced by factors like sub-language, style etc.
The discussion to follow willmainly be concerned with possible antecedents.4 Mot ivat ionThe approach claims that anaphoric resolutionis a two-stage procedure.
The first stage de-termines the possible antecedents by means oftile linguistically defined notions of compatibil-ity and recency.
The second stage consists of thecalculation of preferred antecedents.
I will firstargue why the distinction between possible andpreferred is important.
And second, \[ will moti-vate why the definition of possible antecedents isexpressed in terms of the notions compatibilityand recency.The distinction poss ib le  vs. p re fer red  is con-sidered essential for the following reasons.
First,it is a means to determine whether a discourseis coherent or not, from the anaphoric pointof view.
Consider what happens when an an-tecedent is selected but needs to be rejected be-cause of information later in the discourse.
Asthe meanings of terms like possible/impossiblesuggest, there is no way that we can backtrackon an initially possible antecedent in favour of anantecedent that is not part of the set of possibleones.
Compare the following two discourses:(1) John was late for his appointment with JoeFortunately, Joe was even laterttis work had kept him from leaving in timeHe, on the other hand, had missed the bus96(2) John was late for his appointment withMaryFortunately, Mary was even laterHis work had kept him from leaving in timeShe, on the other hand, had missed the busDiscourse (1) is  clearly incoherent whereas (2)is acceptable.
The reasons are purely linguis-tic.
The definition of possible antecedents abovestated that some antecedents are not accessibleto a pronoun because of other intermediate com-patible antecedents.
Only the latter are possiblecandidates.
When the continuation of the dis-course makes clear that they were not the rightantecedents after all, the discourse should beconsidered incoherent.
A preferred antecedent,however, may be rejected later on in the dis-course in favour of one that was not preferred,merely possible.
An algorithm that merges pos-sible and preferred is not able to make this dis-tinction.The second motivation for maintaining the possi-ble/preferred distinction is provided by (linguis-tic) ambiguity in the language.
Consider (3) andthe examples cited in Winograd(1972), (4) vs.(3) The women met their husbands at a partyThey were very young at the time(4) The city councillors refused the demonstra-tors a permit because they feared violence(5) The city councillors refused the demonstra-tors a permit beca.use they advocated vio-lenceDiscourse (3) is three-way ambiguous and it isvague which of the meanings is intended.
Blur-ring the distinction between preferred and possi-ble antecedents right away contradicts the intu-ition that all three antecedents in the first sen-tence might serve as antecedents for the pro-noun but not any NP that was mentioned be-fore this utterance.
The examples (4) and (5)serve to show that linguistically possible is es-sentially different from possible as regards 'theworld'.
Assuming that no NLP-system, nor anyhuman discourse participant by the way, has richenough information to infer all essentials at theright time (yet), this approach at least yields areliable, and finite, set of possible candidates.Having shown that the distinction between well-formed and preferred antecedent-anaphor rela-tions is necessary, it remains to be shown whypossible antecedents are defined by means of thesimple notions of compatibility and recency.
Theexplanation is quite simple: they seern to yieldthe right results.
It is well-known that full deft-nite NPs are in general further apart from theirantecedents han pronouns are.
Now considerthat definite NPs, in general again, have moredescriptive content than pronouns do.
It fol-lows that pronouns may be compatible with an-tecedents that definite NPs do not match with.Together with the notion of recency, compati-bility then explains why the antecedents of defi-nite NPs may be at quite a distance.
This onlyholds for definite NPs that have ample descrip-tive content hough.
An underspecified definiteNP like 'the man' behaves imilarly to the pro-noun 'he'.
Both will accept the most recentlymentioned male individual(s) as their possibleantecedent(s).
So, the number of units that theanaphor may search to find its antecedent is dy-namic rather than static.
Consider discourse (1)versus (2) again.
A static number of sentenceswould not explain the difference.
The pronounsin (1) behave similar to those in (2) and yet,one of the two is incoherent.
The reason is that'John' in (1) is not accessible because of the in-tervening NIP 'Joe'.
The NP 'Mary' in (2) doesnot block reference to ' John' because 'Mary' isnot compatible with the same anaphor.5 Comparison to Other Ap-proachesIt might be argued that the notion of possible an-tecedents i hardly original in the literature on97the topic of anaphora resolution.
The FocusingApproach reported on in Sidner (1983) also em-ploys a list that contains a number of antecedentsfrom which the anaphor can select its co-referent.(cf.
also Brennan et.al.
1987, Grosz 1983).
Note,however, that the members on this list are sub-stantially different from the possible antecedentsdescribed in this paper.
Potential antecedentsin the Focusing Approach are not determined bythe descriptive content of the anaphor but ratherby what the discourse makes available for fur-ther reference.
Suppose a sentence yields 'thepump' and 'the men' as available antecedents.They will be on the list from which a subsequentpronoun, say 'they', selects its antecedent.
Thedifference is that 'the pump'  may be potentialin the Focusing Approach but in no way 'possi-ble' in the sense I used the term.
Moreover, allpotential antecedents in the Focusing Approachmay be rejected in favour of an antecedent se-lected by a more global mechanism.
This meansthat even the function of Sidner's list of potentialantecedents in the discourse model differs frommine.
I claim that failure in finding a co-referenton the list of possible antecedents corresponds toincoherence of the discourse.
The list employedin the Focusing Approach has no such function.The anaphor could still find a referent on themore global part of the data structure, the so-called Focus Stack.6 Assoc iat ive AnaphoraTo illustrate what the model has in store for anon-standard type of anaphoric reference, con-sider a case of the 'associative anaphoric use', asdiscussed in Hawkins(1978).
A typical exampleof the phenomenon is in (6).
(6) The man drove by in a car.
The exhaustfumes were terrible.
(cf.
its exhaust fumes)Let us see how these constructions behave w.r.t.the model presented above.
In view of theclose correspondence between the bare associa-tive anaphor and an NP that includes the an-tecedent in pronominal form, I propose to anal-yse the constructions as having an empty pro-noun.
The pronoun is anaphoric.
Given thenotion of compatibility and the fact that emptypronouns have no descriptive content at all, theyare predicted to be compatible with any NP.Combining it with the notion of recency, it meansthat the set of possible antecedents consists of alland only the NPs in the most recent unit.
To seewhether this is correct, compare the following ex-amples:(7) I drove by our house in my carThe windows were dirty(8) I drove by our house in my carI saw my father's carThe windows were dirty(9) I drove by our house in my carI saw my father's bicycleThe windows were dirty(10) I drove by our house in my carThe windows were dirtyThe front door was openIn (7), both 'our house' and 'my car' are pos-sible antecedents for the associative anaphor inthe second sentence of the discourse.
In (8) how-ever, only 'nay father's car' is possibly core i~r-ent with the empty pronoun.
This indeed iswhat the model presented above predicts.
Inter-vening potential antecedents block coreferencewith previous candidates.
The NP 'my father'scar' is compatible and in a more recent unitthan 'our house' as well as 'my car'.
Remem-ber that the antecedents we are talking aboutare possible antecedents in the sense of defini-tion 1 above.
World knowledge or subsequentinibrmation in the discourse might still considerthem inappropriate.
This is illustrated in (9).
Itis 'my father's bicycle' that is the only possibleantecedent.
Ruling it out by world knowledgeand having no possible alternative renders thediscourse incoherent.498Discourse (10) might seem to be a counterex=ample since 'the fi'ont door' can refer to 'thehouse' despite the occurence of 'the windows' inbetween.
Ilowever, 'the windows' was not theonly antecedent in the most recent unit.
Re-member that we've assumed an empty pronounall along.
Among the most recent compatible an-tecedents i the empty pronoun that corefers to'house'.
This explains why you can have chainsof associative anaphora that superficially seemto corefer with an antecedent in a unit preced-ing the one in which the most recent compatibleantecedent occurs.7 ConclusionThe paper reported on a model that servesanaphora resolution.
It might he characterizeda~s a two-stage model.
The first stage determinedthe set of linguistically possible antecedents.
Itwas argned that compatibility and recency areadequate notions in determining the set of pos-sible antecedents.
The task of the second stageis to restrict he set of possible antecedents o (anurnber of) preferred antecedent(s).8 .AcknowledgmentsLouis des Tombe, thanks \[or your helpful sug-gestions and critical remarks.
1 was supportedby the European Community and the NBBIthrough the Eurotra project.Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Cam--bridge, Massachusetts, 1977.\[3\] J. tlawkins.
Definiteness and Indefiniteness.London: Croom IIelm, 1978.\[4\] I. Iteim.
The Semantics of Definite and in-definite Noun Phrases.
Unpublished PhDdissertation, University of Massachusetts,Amherst, 1982.\[5\] a. Ilobbs.
Resolving pronoun references.
Lin-gua, 44, 1978.\[6\] II.
Kamp A theory of truth and semanticinterpretation.
In J. Groenendijk et.al.
(eds.
)Formal Methods in the Study of Language.Amsterdam: Mathematical Centre, 1981.\[7\] R. Scha and L. Polanyi.
An Augmented Con-tex Free Grammar for Discourse.
In Proceed-ings of Coling Budapest, 1988.\[8\] C. L. Sidner.
Focusing in the comprehen-sion of definite anaphora.
In M. Brady andR.
C. Berwiek (eds.
), Computational Modelsof Discourse.
MIT press, 1983.\[9\] T. Winograd.
Understanding Natural Lan-guage.
New York: Academic Press, 1972.References\[1\] S. E. Brennan, M. W. l"riedman, and C. a.Pollard.
A centering approach to pronouns.In Proceedings of the 25th Annual Meeting ofthe Association for' Computational Linguis-tics, 1987.\[2\] 13.
Grosz.
The Representation a d Use of Pc>cus in a System for Understanding Dialogues.In Proceedings of the fifth International Joint99
