Bi l ingual  Generat ion of Weather  Forecastsin an Operat ions Env i ronmentL.
Bourbeau, D. Carcagno, E. Goldberg,R.
Kittredge and A. Polgu~re1 IntroductionIn li}86 the first experiments in text generation ap-plied to weather forecasts resulted in a prototypesystem (ltAREAS\[6,3\]) for producing English ma-rine bulletins from forecast data.
Subsequent workin 1987 added French output to make the initial sys-tem bilingual (RAREAS-2\[ll\]).
During 1988-1989 afull-scale operational system was created to meet theneeds of daily marine forecast production for threeregional centres in the Canadian Atmospheric Envi-ronnmnt Service 1.
In contrast o the earlier systems,the most recent one uses general models for both textplanning and sentence realization (see sections 4 and5 below).This new implementation, dubbed FoG for ForecastGenerator, may constitute one of the first "indus-trial" uses of text generation.
FoG is of interest ocomputational linguists for three additional reasons:the conceptual input to the text generationprocess is derived from data that also drive agraphic display on a workstation for forecasters;this determination of text from a selected sub-set of graphically displayed data represents animportant paradigm for the transformation ofinformation;conceptual processing results in an "interlin-guM"representation, a kind of deep syntacticstructure for both English and French in thissublanguage;sentence generation is carried out using a"streamlined" version of the Meaning-Text lin-guistic model; this may represent the first timethat such a general model has been adapted tothe descriptive problems arising in telegraphicsublanguages.1 bog was developed atOdyssey Research Associates, Montreal, under contract withEnvironment Canada.
Current M~liations of the authors are:Bourbeau, Kittredge and Polgu~re at Universit6 de Montreal\[e-mail:Mttredg/polguere@iro.urnontreal.ca\] ; Carcagno atCGE-Marcoussis, France \[carcagno@crcgel.cge.fr\]; Goldbergat Environment Canada, Toronto \[eli@aeshq.uucp\].2 The Graphical Environmentof Weather ForecastingOperational meteorologists normally work withgraphical representations of the information avail-able to them.
"Charts" are used to display the largevolumes of observational data and also the results ofglobal simulations of the atmosphere.
The graphicalentities displayed on these charts (such as weatherfronts, and low pressure systems) are manipulated toadjust for more recent data, and for perceived errorsin the simulations.
This results in manually createdweather depictions which are valid at some futuretime (24 to 36 hours in the future).The weather situation is always being monitored andupdated as new information is received and assimi-lated.
During the normal course of events, much ofthe communication between forecasters i  done usingthese charts.
When it is time to write a forecast forsome user community, the forecaster has to extractthe pertinent information from these charts and re-cast them into a structured text.
In addition, the'primary' information taken from the charts has tobe modified for local geographic effects.
The fore-caster appears to do this while the text is being com-posed.
This mental transposition of meteorologicalinformation from graphical to text form is believedto be open to a number of subjective rrors.
In ad-dition, the pressure to compose text often conflictswith the scientific demands of analyzing an emergingweather situation.FoG is part of the recently implemented ForecastProduction Assistant (FPA)\[7\], which uses interac-tive computer graphics to allow the meteorologist toview and edit a display of the weather situation.
Allof the fields produced by the large scale computationare directly available on the FPA together with anymanually produced products.
This makes it possibleto obtain numerical values directly from the chartsand to use them in other applications uch as FoG.All of the fields required to produce forecast ext canbe obtained from the computer graphics.90 13 From Data to ConceptsA sampling procedure is used to determine values ofthese fields at specific latitude and longitudes whichhave been pre-selected as being representative ofweather conditions over a specified geographic area.Computer animation techniques are used to interpo-late between the standard chart times (normally ev-ery 12 hours) to whatever time resolution is requiredfor the text product.
Currently, charts are availableat intervals of three hours through the forecast pe-riod.
The problem is that this yields nine values fora 24 hour ibrecast.
Practical considerations limit thenumber of events (e.g.
shifts in wind speed or direc-tion) in a forecast o three or four, depending on theseverity of the weather.
The conceptual phase of theprocessing treats the sampled data so that only thesignificant events in time and space are passed on totextual encoding.Conceptual processing involves several stages.
1)Events requiring "weather warnings" are identifiedand stored before any data smoothing is done, 2)Sampled data is smoothed with respect o time sothat only the significant weather changes are re-tained, 3) Spatial smoothing is done so that areassharing similar weather conditions can be groupedtogether in the text.
We have noticed, however, thatthe notion of "significance" is partly dependent onthe ability of the lexicon of the forecast language tomake semantic distinctions.
Thus, a wind changeof 30 degrees is more likely to be judged significantwhen it crosses the boundary between, say, north-easterly ~'md easterly, than when it stays entirelywithin the range of one of these terms.
The semanticgranularity of temporal adverbs has a similar "antic-ipatory" effect on the way generalizations are madeover time.
This constitutes a kind of filter on contentdetermination that precedes formal text planning.tion (the conceptual representation corresponding toone future text) into sentence-sized chunks of infor-mation ("sentence partitioning") within the complextext structure.
The chunks are then linearly orderedaccording to principles that are sometimes domain-specific, but often more general (e.g., temporal se-quence).
There is a subsidiary problem of making fullor partial copies of certain concepts to assure con-tinuity of reference between consecutive sentences.The output of the text structuring process gives, foreach forecast area, a partitioned and possibly en-riched structure called the "text representation".The final stage in text planning involves convertingthe single partitioned text representation into an ac-tual sequence of conceptual representations for in-dividual sentences.
The strong similarity betweenforecast styles and structures used in Canadian ma-rine forecasts in the two official languages makes itpossible to formulate a single interlingual structure,which can map quite directly to the "deep" syntac-tic structure of thc corresponding sentence in eitherEnglish or French.
The primary issue here is theidentity of information conveyed in the two paral-lel sublanguages, and the fact that sentence scopingmay be performed in identical ways on the text con-tent representations u ed for English/French.
Thereis no guarantee that such an interlingua would sufficefor a language using a very different conceptual sys-tem or communication style for weather phenomena(e.g., Inuktitut).5 Meaning-Text RealizationComponent4 Text PlanningText planning in FoG consists of three stages: con-tent determination, text structuring and interlinguaproduction.
Content determination covers the prob-lems of (1) converting the smoothed ata on signifi-cant meteorological events into complex objects ap-propriate for inferencing, one object for each meteo-rological event of interest, and (2) using the struc-tured data objets to compute additional conceptsneeded to talk about transitions between weatherevents.
The output of content determination is, foreach forecast area, an enriched data object called a"text content representation".Text structuring consists basically of finding the op-timal way of cutting each text content representa-The last part of forecast generation i volves the rel-atively well-developed technique of sentence realiza-tion.
By this we mean the conversion of interlingualrepresentations of English/French sentences into ac-ceptable word strings in one or the other of these twolanguages.
To guarantee generality and long-termflexibility of linguistic modelling, we have chosen touse the Meaning-Text linguistic theory of Mel'guk\[8\],which has also served as the framework for text gen-eration in other technical sublanguages\[5,4\].
Becauseof the lack of semantic paraphrase in the forecast-ing sublanguage considered, however, we have elimi-nated the semantic net representations fl'om the pro-cessing stages, passing directly from interlingual rep-resentations to deep syntactic dependency trees\[10\].We have implemented a fragment of an existingMeaning-Text model for English\[9\] and adapted thismodel for French.2 916 \ ] \ [mp lementat ionFoG i:~ written in Quintus Prolog and runs on aHewlett-Packard 9000 workstation as part of theFPA system.
The graphics software on the FPAworkstation is programmed mostly in C. The entireFPA is currently undergoing testing by three regionalweather centres in Eastern Canada and is scheduledto go "on-line" during April of 1990.7 \] 'uture P lansSince FoG is now configured only to produce marineforeca'~ts for the Halifax, Gander and Great Lakes re-gions of Canada, an early priority is to adapt he soft-ware (mostly the text planner) to the different con-tent and style of forecasting found in Pacific Canadaand other marine regions, and to specialized marineforeca~ts (e.g., for small craft).
Concurrently, inves-tigation should continue into extending the system toother forecast ypes, including aviation, agriculturaland public forecasts.
We expect hat our linguisticmodel will also facilitate the addition of high-qualityvoice output as an option at some future time.\[6\]\[7\]\[8\]\[9\]\[10\]\[11\]Kittredge R., Polgu~re A. and Goldberg E.(1986) "Synthesizing Weather Forecasts fromFormatted Data", Proc.
of the 11th Intl.
Conf.on Computational Linguistics, Bonn.McLeod J.C. (1990) "The Forecast ProductionAssistant" Preprints Sixth International Con-ference on Interactive Information and Process-ing Systems for Meteorology, Oceanography andHydrology, Anaheim CA, Amer.
Meteor.
Soc.Mel'~uk I.
(1981) "Meaning-Text Models", An-nual Review of Anthropology, vol.10, pp.27-62.Mel'Suk I. and Percov N. (1987) Surface Syntaxof English, Benjamins.Polgu~re A.
(1988) A Dependency Grammarfor Marine Weather Forecasts, Technical report,Odyssey Research Associates, Montreal.Polgu~re A., Bourbeau L. and Kittredge R.(1987) RAREAS-2: Bilingual Synthesis of Arc-tic Marine Forecasts.
Technical report, OdysseyResearch Associates, Montreal.References\[1\] Carcagno D. (1989) Text Planning for Gener-ailion of Weather Forecasts, Technical report,Odyssey Research Associates, Montreal.\[2\] Carcagno D. and IordanskQa L. (1989) "Con-tent Determination and Text Structuring inGOSSIP", Extended Abstracts of the Second Eu-ropean Workshop on Natural Language Genera-tion, Edinburgh.\[3\] Goldberg E., Kittredge R. and Polgu~reA.
(1988) "Computer Generation of MarineWeather Forecast Text", Journal of Atmo-spheric and Oceanic Technology, vol.5, no.4,pp.473-483.\[4\] Iordanskaja L., Kittredge R. and Polgu~re A.
(:1988) "Implementing a Meaning-Text Modelfor Language Generation" supplement to Proc.of the 12th Intl.
Conf.
on Computational Lin-guistics, Budapest.\[5\] Kittredge R., Iordanskaja L. and Polgu~re A.
(1988) "Multi-Lingual Text Generation and theMeaning-Text Theory", Proc.
of the 2nd Inter-national Conf.
on Theoretical and Methodolog-ical Issues in Machine Translation of NaturalLanguages, Carnegie-Mellon University.92 3
