PILOT IMPLEMENTATION OF A BILINGUAL KNOWLEDGE BANKVictor Sadler & Ronald VendelmansBSO/ResearchP.O.
Box 8348NL-3503 RH UtrechtThe Netherlandsemaih sadler@dltl.uucpAbstract:A Bilingual Knowledge Bank is a syntactically andreferentially structured pair of corpora, one being atranslation of the other, in which translation units arecross-codexl between the corpora.
A pilot implemen-tation is described for a corpus of some 20,000 wordseach in English, French and Esperanto which has beencross-coded between English and Esperanto andbetween Esperanto and French.
The aim is to developa corpus-based general-purpose knowledge source forapplications in machine translation and computer-aided translation.1.
IntroductionHmTis (1988) has called for a "hyper-bitext" ool forprofessional translators, a tool which would permitthem easy on-line retrieval of bilingual equivalences,or "translation units", they have used in the past.
Thetranslator's previous output would be stored as hyper-text, with the parallel texts as far as possible aligned.A search for a given expression or term would thusdisplay, for each occurrence in the corpus, a chunk ofsource language context ogett:er with the correspond-ing fragment in the target language.At the same time, but independently, the authorsand their colleagues at BSO/Research have beenexperimenting with bilingual corpora as a potentialknowledge source for the Distributed Language Trans-lation system (for an overview of this machine transla-tion project, see Witkam 1988).
They have arguedthat a bilingual corpus, appropriately structured, canlargely replace conventional dictionaries (Sadler 1989:133) and grammar rules (van Zuijlen 1989) inmachine translation.
The aim is to automate as far aspossible the acquisition of the various types ofknowledge required for machine translation - frommonolingual knowledge of morphology, word classes,syntactic structures etc., through bilingual knowledgeof lexical equivalences and translation syntax, topurely extra-linguistic knowledge-of-the-world - bystructuring the evidence xplicitly and implicitly avail-able in human translations.
Tim structured bilingualcorpus is trained a "Bilingual Knowledge Bank", orBKB.
It appears that the tools now under develop-ment for constructing a BKB may also provide theprofessional translator with a more sophisticated formof "hyper-bitext" han that envisaged by Harris.2.
Building a Bilingual Knowledge BankThere are basically three steps involved in building aBKB structure.
First, each hmguage version must bestructured syntactically if it is to serve as a source of(monolingual nd contmstive) grammatical knowledge.Second, semantically equivalent units (translationunits) must be identified and cross-linked between thetwo versions.
Third, referential or conceptual linksmust be added to identify various types of deixis andco-reference.
The process can be illustrated with thefollowing English-French example from Harris (1988).\[1\] The board of PAC unanimously confirms themandate.= Le conseil du PAC est ,unanime dans saconfirmation du mandat.The Distributed Language Translation project hasadopted dependency, rather than constituency, syntax(Schubert 1987; Maxwell & Schubert 1989), and fig-ure 1 shows the dependency trees for this example,cross-coded for translation units (TUs).
Each ellipsecorresponds to a subtree.
The basic TUs are depen-dency (sub)trees.
Each of the seven subtrees whichare directly identifiable as translation units has beenassigned an identification number.
"The  board  o f  PAC un~mimous lyconf i rms  the  mandate , "1 e orlftrm ~.a .n i rno  u s 1\],~.~ ~1 et re1/2 dan~1/3"Le conse i l  du  PAC est  unanhncduns  sa  conf i1~na l ion  du  nmnda l .
"Figure 1: Dependency structures and translationunits for example \[1\]I 449Table 1 lists the TU numbers with the correspond-ing equivalences.
For example, Ti.J 1 identifies thecomplete sentence~ TU 2 is the subject noun phrase, 3the determiner, 4 the prepositional phrase, etc.
Whileeach of the basic translation units corresponds to a(sub)tree, not every subtree con'esponds to a transla-tton unit.
The French subtree governed by dans, forinstance, does not constitute a translation unit, In theTU coding, this is shown by the identification "1/2"attached to dans, which indicates that this subtree isthe second bound dependent in TU 1.\[ Table 1: Translation units identified in figure 1.~s- - - -~  English phrase French phraseThe ... mandate.
Le ... du mandat.the board of PAC le conseil du PACthe leof PAC du PACPAC le PACthe mandate le mandatthe leThe subtree approach to translation units allows fora process of tree subtraction which amounts to a kindof generalization.
This allows the productive use ofall the equivalences in the text, even if they do notcon:;timte independent subtrees.
For example, sub-trac!ing TUs 2 and 6 from TU 1 in figure 1 yields theC,.luivalence of to ,o~animoudy co~firm with &reio,ar~izze dans sa cor?grmation de.
In a machineIranslation application, TUs 2 and 6 can be thought ofas variables in a productive translation rule.
Table 2lists tt-e remaining possibilities and the correspondingsubtractions.
Once the basic TUs have been identi-fied, these other equivalences can be atttomatically de-duced by tree subtraction.Table 2: Tr:msl,~tion units derived from table 1.TUs English phrase French phrase1-2-62-32-42-3-44-56-'7tmanimouslycon firmt?~ard of PACthe boardtx~ardofILK|| ?dd \[C.5tre unanimeduns sa confir-mation decoaseil du PACle conseilconseildemandatThe rcmaini~g s~ep in BKB construction is thecoding of references.
In figure 1, TU 6 ( the mandate= le mae~dat) will be linked by a pointer to its an-tecedent in a previous entence.
This link is bilingual,but other references may be language-specific.
Forexample, the possessive pronoun in the French Sen-tence has no correspondent in the English version, asshown by the coding "1/4" in figure 1.
Nevertheless,a monolingual link must be established between sa(or its normalized form so~,) and the antecedent,which can be identified as unit 2 ( le conseil duPAC).i~,tc;:.mr~cc!ing .
'.he various surface forms used to:~e,,pr ~., .
: ~,_.a coa~ccpt multiplies, for any given sur-face form, the contextual constraints which can bederived from the BKB, e.g.
for the purposes of au-tomatic disambiguation.
It also "allows the BKB struc-ture to be reg~rded as a type of knowledge representa-tion to which inference rules can be applied (Sadler1989: 149-233).The building of a Bilingual Knowledge Bank en-tails a great deal of interactive text processing.
Evenafter the text in each language has been correctlyparsed, the conversion of the parallel deixmdency treesto the BKB structure cannot be performed automati-cally.
However, it does appear that a great deal of thework can become automatic.
There are two reasonsfor this.
First, the BKB itself can provide more andmore support, in a kind of boot-strapping process, thelarger it becomes.
Second, the information containedin one language version can support he disambigua-tion of the other version.3.
The pilot implementationin order to serve as a general provider of linguisticand world knowledge, a BKB should contain largeamounts of data.
When considering time-critical BKBapplications, uch as the BKB within a machine trans-lation system, it is clear that efficient data storagetechniques arc needed.
Of course, it is not possible toinvestigate BKB techniques on a very large scale atpresent, because it takes a relatively long time to pro-cess the corpus.
For this reason a small-scale imple-mentation has been designed which gives a good im-pression of a future large-scale BKB system.
Thebasis for this pilot BKB is formed by three parallel20,000-word text corpora in the field of computermanuals.
From these corpora, two BKBs have beenbuilt: one for English/Esperanto, the other forFrench/Esperanto.
The pilot implementation consistsof three, main parts: the parser, the "synsemizer" andthe retrieval system.The parser is used to parse each input text.
Sinceeach sentence which is stored in the BKB should haveonly one meaning (i.e., should contain no syntactic~unbiguities), the parser yields only one analysis persentence.
This deterministic behaviour is produced bya simple category-based grammar on the one hand,and built-in mechanisms which take care of coordina-tion, ellipsis and uncertain syntagma ttachments onthe other hand.
The analysis found is presentedgraphically to the user, and can be edited as requiredbefore it is stored in the BKB.
Words are stored intheir normalized forms with categories and some basicsyntactic features.
The parsing process is BKB-supported: with each new sentence, the informationthat was stored earlier is used to give clues tocategories, features and normalized forms.
Besidesthis learning capability, a future BKB system will alsouse the structure of sentences already par.~ed toresolve attachment problems that the parser was un-able to resolve.The synsemizer is used both to define translationunits by establishing bilingual relations betweencorresponding monolingmd subtrees, and to establishmonolingual referential relationships.
The first part ofthe work is presented to the user graphically: the com-puter searches for probable TU constituents anddisplays them for the user's confirmation or correc-tion.
Subsequent proposals are influenced by theuser's response.
The system is self-improving, sincethe computer's guesses are based on the whole of thetext processed so far.
Referential relations must be450  2identified manually in this pilot implementation.However, since bilingual relations (TUs) have alreadybeen established before this process begins, there isadditional information available to aid the operator.The retrieval system is a tool which extracts in-formation from a BKB that has been built using theparser and the synsemizer.
On lthe basis of inputphrases, which can be augmented with syntactic infor-mation, the BKB is queried.
The resulting answers arepresenteA to the user, either graphically or textually.Possible queries include concordance queries, transla-tion and back-translation queries, and - to some ex-tent - bridge translation (e.g.
simulated English-to-French translation via Esperanto by "chaining" thetwo available BKBs).An interesting aspect of this pilot implementationis that it is not just a simplified prototype system inwhich decisions about various difficult issues are post-poned.
On the contrary, it contains the required func-tionality for building a real large-scale BKB.
Anyweaknesses of the pilot system derive from its limitedsize and from inefficiencies in implementation, ratherthan from its functionality.
The system can thereforebe used for examining various extrapolation-directedaspects such as linguistic and technical applicability,consistency mechanisms and also user interfacepresentation atthe BKB building stage.4, Comparison with other researchThe corpus-based approach to dictionary acquisition,which is part of the motivation behind the BilingualKnowledge Bank, should not be confused with at-tempts made elsewhere to derive lexical equivalencesfrom a bilingual corpus by purely probabilistic means(e.g.
Brown et al 1988).
Syntactic structure is anessential BKB ingredient.
Sumita & Tsutsumi (1988)have implemented a database of equivalent sentencesin Japanese and English, but no full syntactic parsingis done, and retrieval is based on Patterns of functionwords in the Japanese text.
In their tool, sentences re-trieved in bilingual form serve merely as models forthe human translator.
Another translation aid hasbeen described and implemented by Kjzersgaard(1987).
This system allows the translator to retrieve akey word from one half of a bilingual corpus, togetherwith its context in the source language and thecorresponding chunk of text in the target language.
Itis up to the user, however, to decide which, if any, isthe equivalent expression in the target languagechunk.The closest comparable research appears to be thatof Ogura et al (1989), who have structured some40,000 words of running text in Japanese and Englishin what they term a "linguistic database".
This doescomprise a hierarchical syntactic and text-level struc-ture, as well as cross-references between equivalentexpressions in the two languages, although it is notclear whether all translation units have been coded.Their primary aim is to provide a friendly interfacefor the linguist, answering queries on word-classstatistics, displaying the context and translations ofkey expressions, etc.
In contrast, the present researchis directly primarily towards applications in machinetranslation.5.
ConclusionsAs compared with traditional methods of lexicographyand the writing of conventional gramm~ rules, thiscorpus-based approach takes advantage of the fact thatvast amounts of human translation expertise are readi-ly accessible in readable form.
Instead of extractingvocabulary and grammar ules fl:om text, the methoddescribed structures the text in such a way that theknowledge is directly accessible in the text itself.
TheBKB is a completely symmetrical construction, inwhich no distinction is made between source and tar-get languages.
The (virtual) dictionary and rule sys-tem it comprises are thus 100% reversible.ReferencesBrown, P. / J. Cocke / S. Della Pietra / V. Della Pietra/ F. Jelinek / R. Mercer / P. Roossin (1988): A sta-tistical approach to language translation.
In:Proceedings of the 12th International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics.~ Budapest, 1988, pp.71-76.Harris, Brian (1988): Interlinear bitext.
LanguageTechnology Nov/Dec 1988, 10, p.12.Kj~ersgaard, Poul SCren (198'7): REFTEX - Acontext-based translation aid.
In: Proceedings ofthe 3rd Conference of the European Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,Copenhagen, 1-3 Apr.
1987, pp.
109-112.Maxwell, Dan / Klaus Schubert (eds.)
(1989): Meta-taxis in practice: Dependency syntax for multi#ingual machine translation.
Derdrecht/Providence:Foils.
DLT 6.Ogum, Kentaro / Kazuo Hashimoto / Tsuyoshi Mori-moto (1989): Object-Oriented User Interface for aLinguistic Database.
In: Proceedings of the Work-ing Conference on Data and Knowledge Base In-tegration, University of Keele, 5-6 Oct. 1989.Sadler, V. (1989): Working with Analogical Seman-tics: Disambiguation Techniques in DLT.Dordrecht/Providence: Foris.
DLT 5.Schubert, K. (1987): Metataxis.
Contrastive dependen-cy syntax for machine translation.
Dor-drecht/Providence: Foils.
DLT 2.Sumita, E. / Y. Tsutsumi (1988): A Translation AidSystem Using Flexible Text Retrieval Based onSyntax-Matching.
In: Proceedings Supplement,Second International Conference on Theoreticaland Methodological Issues in Machine Translationof Natural Languages, Carnegie Mellon University,Pittsburgh, 12-14 June 1988.Witkam, Toon (1988): DLT - an industrial R & Dproject for multilingual MT.
In: Proceedings ofthe 12th International Conference on Computation-al Linguistics, Budapest, 1988, pp.
756-759.Zuijlen, J. van (1989): Probabilistic methods in depen-dency grammar parsing.
In: Proceedings of theInternational Workshop on Parsing Technologies,Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, August1989, pp.
142-151..3 451
