AN INTEGRATED SYSTEM FOR MORPHOLOGICAL  ANALYSIS OF  THE SLOVENELANGUAGEToma~ Erjavec, Peter TancigNLU Lab., Department of Computer Science and InformaticsJoker Stefan InstituteJamova 39, 61000 LjubljanaYugoslaviaABSTRACT: The paper presents an integratedenvironment for morphological analysis ofword-forms of the Slovene language.
The systemconsists of a lexicon input and maintenance module,a lexicon output module for accessing lexical wordforms, a two-level rule compiler and a two-levelmorphological analysis/synthesis unit.
The basicparadigms and lexical alternations ofword forms arehandled by the lexicon system, while the two-levelcomponent akes care of phonologically inducedalternations.1.
IntroductionWe present an integrated environment formorphological nalysis of (written) word-forms ofthe Slovene language.
The language belongs to theSlavic family of languages, but exhibits some veryidiosyncratic properties (e.g.
having also a "dual"number and very rich inflection).
Our project ofwriting a morphological analyzer and synthesizer(MAS) for the Slovene language has had primarilytwo aims.
First, to write a useful MAS, which couldserve as a front-end to other Slovene languageprocessing systems, and second, to implement amodel general enough to allow us to facilitate thestudy of Slovene morphology.The work on the project itself is split into two partsmuch along the same lines.
First of the task ofselecting and implementing a model versatile noughto cover the quirks of Slovene morphology, andsecond, the task of writing down the rules of Slovenemorphology (Toporigie 84) in the formalism of thechosen model.The two-level model of Kimmo Koskeniemmi(Karttunen 88, Koskenniemi 84,85,86) was selectedas the basic scheme for our MAS, our choice beinginfluenced - among other things - by its prevalence incurrent (computer) morphological studies.
Thismakes the system well documented and thus easy toimplement, as well as simplifying the task of writingthe rules for (phonologically) induced alternations ofSlovenian word-forms (Erjavec 89).2.
StructureThe system was implemented on VAX/V-MS inQuintus Prolog and consists of the following parts:(1) The compiler, which takes as its input two-levelrules and produces final state automata(transducers).
(2) The lexicon module which provides a userinterface for the creation and updating of tilelexicon - the lexicon input module.
This moduleembodies that part of morphological knowledgeof Slovene inflectional morphology which cannotbe (elegantly) covered by two-level rules.
It isalso the part of the system responsible forpassing lexical word forms to (3) - the lexiconoutput module.
(3) The MAS itself, which, having access to thetransducers and (indirectly) to the lexicon, is ableto analyze Slovene word forms into their lexicalcounterparts, and to synthesize word forms fromlexical data.
(TWO-L~1TWO-LEVELCOMPILERSURFACEWORD FORM1MASMODULE@J WORD-FORMUSER INPUTOF NEW WORDS1LEXICONINPUTMODULE1I LE?ICONOUTPUTMODULEFigure 1: System structureAs we can see, the MAS with its knowledge ofphono-morphological alternations embodied in thetransducers guides the lexicon module in choosing348 \]the correct lexical word from the lexicon.
The MASmodule is of course also able to synthesize words,given their lexical representation.
The 'Tceding" oflexical words to the MAS is however applicationdependent, and will thus not be dealt with further inthis paper.
The workings of the compiler will also notbe discussed, as this is not its first implementation(Karttmmrt 87).3.
Lex icon  modu leA basic part of our MAS system is the lexicon.
The~tructure of the lexicon accords with the twoqevelmodel type lexicon; that is, the lexicon is composedof letter-tree sub-lexicons (tries), consisting ofmorphemes with a comnlon t)ropelty.
We can have,\[br instance, a sub-lexicon lot stems, another forendings of male noun declension, another forconjugative ndings of certain verbs, etc.
A set of.,;ub-lexicons is marked as initial, meaning that a(recognizable) word can only start with a member ofIhese sub-lexicons.
The other sub-lexicons areconnected to initial sub-lexicons through pointers,~ypically making them inflectional paradigms ofvarious word classes.An entu  in a sub-lexicon consists of three parts:(1) the "morpheme", which, in stein suMexicons(two--level rules aside), is ll~c invariant part of thestem lcxcme, written in the symbols of Ihe lcxicalalphabet;(2) the continuation lexicon(s) of the morpheme;(3) morpho-syntactic features of the n~,orphcme.
'\['o illustrate:bolezEn decl subst 12 / bv=subst gen = fenl;O) (2) (3)(t) - the stem of the lexeme "illness"; the lexicalsylnbol "E" denotes an unstressed "e" (schwa sound),deleted in word forms with non-null endingsCbolczen '' - nora.
sg., but "bolezni" - gen.
sg.
);(2) - the name of the lexicon with endings of secondfemale declension;(3) - inherent morpho-syntactic properties of thelexeme (noun, female gender).We can see that the lexicon system can take care ofregular paradigms of inflecting words of the languagc(at least lbr suffixing languages, such as Slovene),while the two-level rules handle phone-morphological alternations.
The Slovene language,however, abounds in alternations that are lexicallyconditioned.
This is not to say that no rules can beconstructed to cover these alternations, but ratherthat they are not (purely) phonologicallyconditioned.
There is for instance an alternation thataffects only nouns of male gender which have the"animate" property, and another one which pertainsonly to the plural and dual of certain Slovene noun,;.Since two-level rules are sensitive only to the form ofthe word (string) they proces, they arc insufficient torexpressing such alternations.To handle texically conditioned types of alternations,we have concentrated on the linking mechanislnbetween the sub-lexicons.
The "continuation"information belonging to an entry can also, alongwith a pointer to another sub-lexicon, include a list oflexical alternations.
When accessing word forms fromthe lexicon, these alternations tell the lexicon outputmodule how to modify the continuation sub-lexiconto express the desired changes.
The rules governingsuch modifications of the continuation sub-lexiconcan pertbrm a certain number of primitive"transformational" operations on the sub-lexicon inquestion.To make the point clearer, we give a simple case ofan alternation that affects certain nouns of malegender.
The alternation "j epenthesis" inserts a "j" inthe stem final position in word forms with a non-nulleMing; e.g.
"krompir" -potato, but "krompirja" forthe singular genitive form.
The lexicon entry lookslike this:krompir decl_subst_m(pod_j) /bv=subst gen=mas ?anim;When the lexicon output module "jumps" to thecontinuation lexicon, the "pod_j" item will trigger thecorresponding alternation in the morphological rulebase of the system.
The alternation procedure thentakes as its input the continuation lexicon, modifiesit, and returns the modified lexicon (with "j" prefixedto the non-null gramatemes).
Analysis then proceedswith entries of the modified lexicon.4.
Input  Modu leIf new entries are to be added to our lexicon bypersons not acquainted with implementation detailsof the system (lexical alphabet and alternations), aninput module with a friendly user interface is ofprime importance.
In our system the user is thereforeexpected to enter only the base form of the new word(e.g.
nora, sg.
for nouns) along with inherentmorpho-syntactic properties of the word (e.g.
noun,male, animate), and another "comparative" wordform of the same word (e.g.
gen.
pl.).
Bothword-forms are entered in the surface alphabct.2, 349With this information at its disposal, the inputmodule must, in order to store the entry into thelexicon, do the following:- extract form the word its lexical stem;- transcribe it from surface into lexical characters;- determine the continuation lexicon(s) (paradigms)and lexical alternations;Extracting the lexical stem and assigning lexicalalternations are performed by comparing the (baseand comparative) word forms entered.
For examplethe comparison of "ladja" (ship) and "ladij" (gen.
pl.
)shows an insertion of "i" into the stem, so the nameof the lexical alternation for "i" epenthesis addedto the entry.The "lemmatization" of words, especially themapping from surface to lexical symbols, is basicallynondeterministic; .e.
the input module "guesses" thecorrect lemmatization of the word, produces thelexical word form of the comparative word, andsynthesizes its surlhce word form.
If the synthesizedword-form matches the one entered by the user, thelemmatization is correct; if not, the module triesagain, with a different mapping.the Study of Language and Information, ReportNo.
CLSI-87-108(1988) Unpublished lectures / PreCOLING '88,Morphological analysis; ComputationalLinguistics ConferenceKoskenniemi K. (1984) A General ComputationalModel for Word- Form Recognition and Production/ Computational Linguistics, ConferenceProceedings; COLING '84- (1985) A General Computational Model for WordForm Recognition and Production / ComputationalMorphosyntax, Report on Research 1981-84;University of Helsinky, Dept.
of GeneralLingusistics Publications No.
13(1986) Compilation of Automata from Morpho-logical Two-Level Rules / Papers form the fifthScandinavian Conference of ComputationalLinguistics 1985; University of Helsinky, Dept.
ofGeneral Lingusistics Publications No.
15'\]?opori~i~ J.
(1984) Slovenska slovnica / Zalo~baObzorja Maribor5.
ConclusionOur system is in a certain sense redundant, since ithas two ways with dealing with alternations -two-level rules and lexicon rules.
The two-level rulesare more linguistically justified, while the lexiconrules offer greater ~,ower in expressing alternations.This (partial) overlap is to a large extent intentional,as Slovene morpholo~ has been - to say the least -insufficiently studied and our aim was to have at ourdisposal a variety of tools for expressing variousmorphological processes which occur in ourlanguage.We have also tried to simplify the input of new wordsinto the lexicon; a problem which in our opinion, hasreceived insufficient attention in the two-levelframework.6.
References:Erjavec T., Tancig P. (1989) Dvo-nivojska pravila zaalternacije slovenskih samosmlnigkih sklanjatev(Two-Level Rules for Alternations of Slovene NounDeclensions) / V. kongres zveze dru~tev zauporabno jezikoslovje Jugoslavije; LjubljanaKarttunen L., Koskenniemi K.,Kaplan R. (1987) ACompiler for Two-Level Phonological Rules / in"Tools for Morphological Analysis", Center for350 3
