Machine Translation without a source textHaro ld  L. SOMERS, Jun- ichi  TSUJII and Danny  JONESCentre for Computational LinguisticsUMIST, PO Box 88Manchester M60 1QD, EnglandAbstractTiffs lmper concerns an approach to Machine TranslationwhieJJ differs from the typical 'standard' approaches cruciallyin.that it does not rely on the prior existence of a source textas a basis of the translation.
Our approach can be character-ised as an 'intelligent secretary with knowledge of theforeign language', which helps monolingual users to formu-late the desired target-language text in the context of a (key-board) dialogue translation systems.Keywords: Machine translation; naturallanguage interface; dialogueIntroductionMachine Translation (M'f) or naturallang~lge translation in general is a typicalexample of the 'under-constrained' problemswhich we often encounter in the field ofartificial intelligence 1.
That is to .say, the same'messages' can and should be translateddifferently depending on the surrounding con-texts (where and when they are used), and onthe Sl~eakers' intention (what they really want toexpress) etc.
It is all too often the case that thisinformation, which is neces~ry for the selectionof the appropriate overall target text structure, isnot ntade explicit in source texts prepared fortranslation.
The author of the source text natur-ally follows the 'rules' of the source language inpreparation of source texts and assumes that thefactors which will affect the selection of targetexpressions are self-evident.MT systems developed so far or beingdeveloped have been trying to compensate thisgenuine property of language translation byextending the units of translation from sentencesto texts (e.g.
Rothkegel 1986, Weber 1987) ort The authors would like to acknowledge the contributionto this work of the other members of the project eam: BillBlack, Jeremy Carroll, Anna Gianetti, Makoto Hirai, NatsukoHolden, John Phillips and Kenji Yoshimura.by introducing 'understanding' based on'domain specific knowledge' (as in the'sublanguage' approach - cf.
Kosaka et al1988, Lehrberger & Bourbeau 1988).
Thiscourse of research would be inevitable if wewere to confine ourselves to translation ofprepared texts which already exist beforetranslation.
In such cases, we have to recoverfrom text itself or by using extra 'knowledge',such implicit information which is necessary forformulating target expressions.However, we can imagine a quite differentcourse of research for developing a differenttype of MT system, i.e.
an 'expert' systemwhich can play the role of an 'intelligeutsecretm-y with knowledge of the toreignlanguage'.
Such a system does not require theuser (the writer) to prepare full source texts inadvance.
It slarts from rough sketches of whatthe writer wants to say and gathers theinformation necessary for formulating targettexts by asking the writer questions, because thewdtor is the person who really intends tocommunicate and has a clear idea about whats/he wants to say.
We can get much richerinformation through such interactions than in theusual written text translation by professionaltranslators.
Through interaction, we can getinformation concemed with, for example, theuser's intention which is not explicitly expressedin the 'text' to translate but which is nonethelessnecessary for producing quality target texts.This sort of system is different from thewidely promoted 'Translator's Workbench' idea(e.g.
Kay 1980, Melby 1982), the main aims ofwhich are to help translators to translate texts.In this scenario, both the system and the userhave knowledge about both source and targetlanguage, and it is sometimes difficult to seewhere the most appropriate division of labourshould occur: indeed, there is sometimes aconflict between what the system offers thetranslator-user, and what the user alreadyl 271knows, or between the extent to which thesystem or the user should take the initiative,which might differ from occasion to occasion.On the other hand, in the proposed expertsystem scenario, the partition of knowledge isclear: the system knows mainly abouttranslation, the writer knows only about thedesired communicative content of the message.There is no conflict between what the systemassumes to be the extent of the writer's (theuser's) knowledge, nor in the writer'sexpectations.
In this respect we are followingthe line taken by Johnson & Whitelock (1987),and the work here at UMIST on the ENtranproject (Whitelock et al 1986, Wood &Chandler 1988) developing an MT system for amonolingual user.MT systems so far have been developedbased on the implicit assumption that sourcetexts contain all (or almost all) the informationnecessary for translation.
We take as a startingpoint that this assumption is not necessarilytrue, especially when we consider pairs ofunrelated languages where cultural as well aslinguistic differences contribute to this problem.Notice that the concept of 'source text' in theabove is quite different from that in the normalcontext of MT.
That is, we do not have a sourcetext to translate as such, but instead, the userhas his/her communicative goals and thetranslation system can help to formulate themost appropriate target linguistic forms bygathering information necessary to accomplishthese goals through 'clarification dialogues'.It could be argued that this generation of atarget ext on the basis of something other thana source text is not 'real translation'.
Such anargument might derive from an overlytraditional view of translation where a translatorgets some text (say, in the post) and sits at adesk with a bilingual dictionary and translates'blind' i.e.
with no actual knowledge of thewriter's intentions, goals, etc.
There is a sensein which second generation MT systems implyreflect this scenario of a translator.
Of course,the best translations are done by a translatorwho can ask the original author "What did youmean when you said...?
"; by the same token webelieve we can build a better translation systemif we can elicit such information from theoriginator of the 'text' at the time of 'writing'.Genera l  background to the researchThis research is undertaken i  the context ofthe more general activities of the Japanese ATRresearch programme into automaticinterpretation between English and Japanese oftelephone conversations.
As such it is orientedtowards translation of dialogues.
One approachto dialogue translation has been the'phrasebook' approach of Steer & Stentiford(1989).
In this speech translation prototypesystem, set phrases are stored, as in aholidaymaker's phrasebook; they are retrievedby the fairly crude, though effective, techniqueof recognising keywords in a particular order inthe input speech signal.
The main disadvantageof this system is its inflexibility: if the phraseyou want is not in the phrasebook, you cannotsay anything.In the research programme to be reportedhere, we are not concerned with speechprocessing per se, and we assume the context ofan on-line keyboard conversation function suchas talk in UNIX TM (cf.
Miike et al 1988).
It hasbeen found that keyboard conversations have thesame fundamental features as telephoneconversations, notwithstanding the obviousdifferences between written and spokenlanguage (Arita et al 1987, Iida 1987).Furthermore, we restrict ourselves to goal-oriented dialogues, i.e.
dialogues where oneparticipant is seeking information from theother: our experimental domain is dialogues fora conference registration and hotel reservationsystem.When such conversations are subjected to theadditional distortion of being transmitted via atraditional MT system, several further problemsaccrue, as the talk experiment mentioned aboveshowed, notably when mistranslation occurs.The problem of human-machine interaction inthe specific area of clarification dialogues forMT must be studied.
The need to incorporatedifferent types of clarification dialogue hasgeneral implications for the question of systemarchitectures for interactive MT systems.
Thisaspect is discussed in detail below.In the above scenario, the system tries togather information necessary for formulatingtarget exts through interactions.
This means thesystem formulates target texts by addinginformation to 'source texts' (in theconventional sense).
We can extend this ideafurther.
In the extreme case, we can hnagine asystem which has stereotypical target texts incertain restricted domains (e.g.
businesscorrespondences in specific areas), retrievesappropriate texts through dialogues with usersand reformulates them to fulfill the specific272  2requi~-ements expressed by users.
In thisscenario, the MT sysmm becomes a kind ofmultilingual text generation system and adds alot of inlormation ot contained in the 'sourcetext' at all.
This idea has becn investigated hereat UMIST in the context of a researchprogramme for British Telecom (Jones & Tsujii1990), and has significantly influcnc(xt theresearch reported here (a similar idea for'automated text composition' in Japanese hastven suggested by Suite & Tomita 1986).D~alogue MTIt is important o emphasize that there is abasic difference between Dialogue MachineTranslafion (DMT) 2 systems on the one handand conventional MT systems on the olher,namely the difference of user types.
In DMT,users are dialogue participants who actuallyhave their respective communicative goals andwho really know what they want to say.
On theother hand, the users of conventkmal MT ,aretypically translators who, though they haveenough knowledge about both languages, lack'complete understanding' of texts to Ix:translated?This difference in user-types leads todiffenmt characterizations of interactionsbetw(~m MT systems and their users.
We haveto mkc into account what this differcnce impliesin designing actual DMT systems.
The mainimplications can be smnmarized as follows.In DMT, the system can ask in thcoc?
anyquestions to elicit tile information ecessary tottranslation which is not explicitly expressed inthe 'source text'.
This is impossible inconventional M-F, because the users do not have'complete understanding' of the context inwhich the texts are prcpmvd, and the users (whoare translators) simply could not answer suchquestions.
(It is often the case that even humantranslalors would like to consult the authors ofthe original texts in ordcr to produce a goodtranslalion.)
In order to exploit this advantage inDMT however, we have to overcome severalrelated ifficulties.2 Our concept of DlVlq' should be distinguished from'Dialogue-based MT' as proposed by Boitet (1989), in whichdialogm; is used to clarify the author's intentions in thecontext of a personal MT system.
This is also the case inour DMT, with the crucial difference that the object oftranslation in our case is also part of a dialogue, i.e.
theuser's dMogue with a third party.
Clearly however, there aresigrfificant areas of overlap between our project and Boitet's.First, in I)MT there are several differenttypes of dialogues, any of which may start up orbe resolved at any given time: these dialoguesinclude(a) usermser object-level dialogues(b) user-user metadevel dialogues (e.g.
inwhich one palticipant in file dialogue asksthe other participant questions to clarify themeaning or intentions of his/her statements)(c) user-system dialogues typically initiatedby the system, concerning the progress of theobject-level dialogue, disambiguatingambiguous object-level dialogue, i.e.
whatthe user wants to say nexL(d) user-system eta-level dialogues typicallyinitiated by the user, concerning clarificationof the object-level dialogue, i.e.
what wasju.~t said.One of the foreseeable difficulties in DMT ishow to distinguish these different modes ofdiMogue, that is, how systems can distinguish,first of all, utterances of types (a) and (b) to betranslated and transmitted, from utterances oftype (d) which should not be translated.
Inparticular, dialogues of types (b) and (d) may bedifficult in some cases, because the user posingquestions of clarilication cannot generallyrecognize whether the difficulties ofunderstanding come from 'errors' in translationor from the other participants' utterancesthemselves.
For examples of this effect, seeMiike et al (1988).Dialogues of type (c) are found in some formin most conventional interactive MT systems;note that with monolingual users such dialoguesare quite different from those found in the'Translator's Workbench' type of system, sinceit is pmticularly difficult to phrase interactionsconcerning problems of transfer when the useris not expected to know anything about thetarget language, and when current frameworksdo not allow us tospecify the relationshipsamong possible translations defined by differentstructural correspondence rules.
On the otherhand, regarding problems with analysis, aparticularly useful result of the research onENtran was to see to what extent potentialambiguities could be recognised on the basis ofstructures computed by more or less traditionalparsing techniques (i.e.
charts).
For dialogues oftype (c) we are guided by the work of Jones &Tsujii, mentioned above.The British Telecom work concerns a systemfor generating business letters in French,3 273German and Spanish on the basis of anessentially menu-driven interface (in English).The system has a set of preu'anslated fragmentpairs some of which have slots for variableelements to be inserted (e.g.
the name of acompany, or a product) which may or may notbe translated in a conventional manner.
Thesystem-user dialogue aims at selecting theappropriate target-language xpression (TEE)fragment corresponding to some source-language expression (SEE) and compiling theTEEs in the appropriate sequence so as togenerate the required output.
Notice that, sincethe fragments have been pretranslated(presumably by a competent translator), theresult is of a guaranteed high quality.This idea is developed in the following ways.First, we assume that the interface menu isreplaced by a much more complex 'modeldialogue' (see below).
In the sense that thepretranslated fragment pairs are associated withparticular points in the model dialogue, they canbe said to be not just pairs of SEES and TEES butin fact triples, since they are identified by adescription of the dialogue context (DC) whichconditions the equivalence of the twoexpressions, by specifying the point in themodel dialogue at which they are identified,thUS" <SLE,TLE,DC>.
It is possible for a givenSLE, there may be several TEa depending on theparticular IX:, thus:<SLE~,TLE?,DC~<SLEu,TLEj,DCy><SLEu,TLEk,DCz>For example, the English response OK in adialogue may correspond to Japanesewakarimashita when something is beingexplained, ii desu yo when asserting agreement,or ijoo desu when it indicates completion of thediscussion and a change of topic.The task of the DMT system can now bedivided between first locating the appropriate setof triples involving a given SLE, and thenlocating the appropriate a't~ for that SEEaccording to the De.If we assume that the SLEs are not just'canned texts', but actually types of texttemplates of varying linguistic complexity (i.e.from set phrases through to syntactic patterns -see below), it can be seen that the first part ofthe above task can be achieved by traditionaltechniques of parsing or by some othermatching procedure.
The set of different t~csfor a given SLE can be used to trigger aclarification dialogue so as to determine theappropriate TEE.In this scenario the user has taken theinitiative in the dialogue, by 'typing in' whats/he wants to say, and having the system findthe appropriate triple.Two other scenarios are also possible.
In one,the system retains the initiative, and rather likein the menu-driven system, selects (or seeks viaa meta-dialogue) the next appropriate De., andthen offers a range of appropriate SLES forselection.
In this sense the <SEE,TEE> pair for agiven value of DC can be regarded as a'conditioned equivalence pair'.Finally, in a mixed-initiative scenario, theuser and the system collaborate in the followingway: first, a communicative goal is established,and with it a sequence of Des corresponding tothe 'dialogue plan'.
The user then makes aproposal for the next utterance in the dialogue,and the system searches its database for thenearest apparently appropriate <SLE,TLE,DC>given the user's input (con'esponding to the SL~)and the DE as given by the dialogue plan.
If anexact match is found, the TEE is generated andthe object-level dialogue continues.
However, ifan exact match is not found, the system gets theuser to modify the SLE until it more closelymatches the SEE selected by the system.Mode l  d ia logueThe important issue in the above is that theequivalence relation of the two expressions isnot guaranteed by the expressions themselvesbut by the Des which are given ratherindependently of the informational content ofthe two expressions in the triples.
In a contextsuch as business correspondenc e , it might be thecase that much less information is necessary toidentify the relevant triple than that conveyedby the actual linguistic expressions and that,because ach individual language usually has itsown conventions which letters must follow, theactual informational contents of the twoexpressions might be different.
The same is trueof certain types of dialogues.
For example, thereare conventional phrases used in Japanese phonecalls (Nagasaki 1971) which, if translatedliterally, would probably mystify the non-Japanese dialogue partner:Sorry to disturb you when you are busy /eating / about to go to bed / still asleep(depending on time of day)Sorry to have had to disturb you274 4Sorry for having talked too muchExcuse me for bothering you'1'hank you jot going out of" your way toanswer the phoneI assume it is inconvenient for you now, bur..\[ am sorry for phoning you without warningg wasn't expecting to phone you, but...One important research question is whatexactly the oc should look like.
Our currentassumption is that Ix: will actually refer to apoint in a 'model dialogue ~, probably a flexiblenetwork of script-like structures indicatingpossible dialogues that rite system can trmtslate,perhaps along the lines of work by Wachtel0986) and Reilly (1989).
We have not yetfinalised ore" ideas in this area, but we areconsidering in particular how to modcl suitablyflexible dialogue structures within the domain inquestion, the problem of intcractions betweenthe model dialogues and the recta-dialogues, aswell as the mechanisms which enable thesystem to navigate its way through the modeldialogue network in response to the user's input.~Canned text ~ and extensionsIt was stated above that the nature of the SLEand TEE pairs should be varied.
In particular,because of the need for tlexibility as comparedto the British Telecom work dcscribcd in Jones& Tsujii (1990), we assume that tile system willpermit some degree of conventionalcompositional translation.
So SEEs and TLES arenot always texts, or 'paratexts' (i.e.
texts withslots for proper names or simply translated nounphrases, etc.)
but, in some cases, structuraldescriptions of a more conventional kind.
7hisclearly hnplies that within the system there is aneed for analysis (and generation) of the kindfound in conventional MT systems.
Inparticular, where appropriate texts or paratextsare not found for a given input, and thedialogue management part of the system issatisfied that 'free input' is an available optionat this point in the model dialogue, then thesystem becomes more like a conventional MTsystem, though with the special characteristicsof an MT system which interacts with amonolingual user.For the most part, however, it is assumed thatthere is a stereotyped set of functions involvedin performing a global communicative functionin a restricted omain.
We can assign surfacerepresentations to these functions which restrictthe form of expression to a certain extent inorder capture functional regularities incommunication and to guarantee high qmditytranslations.
When the system encountersunexpected input, it has a choice of h'yiug tosteer the user towards input which ix morewithin its expectations, or to abandontemporarily its assurance of high-qtmlitytranslation ~md operate in a more traditionalm~mner.It may be asked why we need the modeldialogues~ file canned text and paratexts, andconditioned equivalence pairs: would it notbetter simply to have a long pre-compositionphase where the writer interacts with an expertsystem which asks lots of questions aboutintentions and goals and then uses thisknowledge (if require) in a conventionalparse-and-disambiguate system.
Of course thiswould be ~mother way of addressing theproblem of under-.specified texts, but it is notclear what type of questions could be askedunless a speciiic domain of comt?
)sition waspin-pointed.
This brings us back to domainknowledge~ which in this case is expressed asknowledge about what the user can ask next,which we capture in file model dialogues.ConclusionIt is nowadays accepted that we cannotexpect o have fully automatic high-quality MT.We have to dcvclop systems which allowflexible and cffcctivc human intervcntions.
Ouridca is to explorc diversified approachcs tointeractive MT and in pm'ticular we seek todevelop an interactive system for monoling~lusers.
Fnrthennore, it seems that severalinteresting ncw approaches become apparcntonce we escape from the basic assmnption ofthe existence of a concrete source text, andexplore the idca of 'MT without source texts'.ReferencesH.
ARYrA, K. KOGURE, I. NOGAITO, H. MAEDA& H. IIDA (1987) 'Media ni izon suru kaiwa noy6shiki: dcnwakaiwa to kiib6do no kaiwai nohikaku (Media-dependent conversation manners:comparison of telephone and keyboardconversations)'.
Jrh6 Short Gakkai 87.34 (Jbh5Short Gakkai Kenkyh Hbkoku, Shizen GengoShort 61-NLP-5, 1987.5.22).5 275C.
BOITET (1989) 'Speech synthesis and Dialo-gue Based Machine Translation'.
ATR Symposi-um on Basic Research for Telephone Interpreta-tion, Kyoto, December 1989.
Preprints, 6-5-1-9.H.
IIDA (1987) 'Distinctive features ofconversations and inter-keyboard interpretation'.Workshop on Natural Language DialogueInterpretation, Advanced TelecommunicationsResearch Institute (ATR), Osaka, November1987.R.L.
JOHNSON & P. WttlTELOCK (1987)'Machine translation as an expert task'.
In S.Nirenburg (ed)Machine translation: theoreticaland methodological issues, Cambridge:Cambridge University Press, 136-144.D.
JONES & J. TsuJn (1990) 'High qualitymachine-driven text translation'.
ThirdInternational Conference on Theoretical andMethodological Issues in Machine Translationof Natural Languages, Austin, Texas, June 1990.M.
KAY (1980) The proper place of men andmachines in language translation.
ResearchReport CSL-80-11.
Xerox Palo Alto ResearchCenter, Palo Alto, California, October 1980.M.
KOSAKA, V. TELLER & R. GRISHMAN (1988)'A sublanguage approach to Japanese-Englishmachine translation'.
In D. Maxwell, K.Schubert & T. Witkam (eds) New directions inmachine translation, Dordrecht: Foris, 109-120.J.
LEHRBERGER & L. BOURBEAU (1988)Machine translation: Linguistic characteristicsof MT systems and general methodology ofevaluation.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.A.K.
MELBY (1982) 'Multi-level translation aidsin a distributed system'.
In J. Horeck9 (ed)COLING 82: Proceedings of the NinthInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, Amsterdam: North-Holland, 215-220.S.
MIIKE, K. HASEBE, H. SOMERS & S. AMANO(1988) 'Experiences with an on-line translatingdialogue system'.
26th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics.Buffalo, NY, June 1988.
Proceedings, 155-162.K.
NAGASAKi (1971) (Hito ni warawarenai)Kotoba dzukai to hanashi kata.
T6ky6: BunwaShobo.R.
REILLY (1989) 'Communication failure indialogue: implications for natural languageunderstanding'.
In J. Peckham (ed) Recentdevelopments and applications of NaturalLanguage Processing, London: Kogan Page,244-261.A.
ROTHKEGEL (1986) 'Textverstehen undTransfer in der maschinellen Ubersetzung'.
In I.B~ttori & H.J.
Weber (Hgg) Neue Ansiitze inMaschineller Ubersetzung: Wissensrepr'asen.ration und Textbezug, Tiibingen: Max NiemeyerVerlag, 197-227.H.
SAITO & M. TOMITA (1986) 'On automaticcomposition of stereotypic documents in foreignlanguages'.
Presented at 1st IntemationalConference on Applications of ArtificialIntelligence to Engineering Problerns,Southampton, April 1986.
Research ReportCMU-CS-86-107, Department of ComputerScience, Carnegie-Mellon University.M.G.
STEER & F.W.M.
STENTIFORD (1989)'Speech language translation'.
In J. Peckham(ed) Recent developments and applications ofNatural Language Processing, London: KoganPage, 129-140.T.
WACHTEL (1986) 'Pragmatic sensitivity inNL interfaces and the structure of conversation'.I Ith International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, Proceedings of Coling '86, Bonn,35-41.HJ.
WEBER (1987) Converging approaches inMachine Translation: domain knowledge anddiscours \[sic\] knowledge.
Linguistic AgencyUniversity of Duisburg Series B, No.164.P.J.
WltlTELOCK, M.M.
WOOD, B.J.
CHANDLER,N.
HOLDEN & H.J.
HORSFALL (1986)'Strategies for interactive machine translation:the experience and implications of the UMISTJapanese project', l lth International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics, Proceedings ofColing '86, Bonn, 329-334.M.M.
WOOD & B.J.
CHANDLER (1988)'Machine translation for monolinguals'.
In D.Vargha (ed) COLtNG Budapest: Proceedings ofthe 12th  International Conference onComputational Linguistics, Budapest: John yonNeumann Society for Computing Sciences,760-763.276 6
