Pars ing  Long Eng l i sh  Sentences  wi th  Pat tern  Ru lesWei -Chuan Li, Tzusheng Pei, B ing-Huang Lee, and Chue i -Feng  Ch iouSystem Sof tware  Depar tment (X200)E lec t ron ic  Research  and Sea--vice Organ izat ion(ERSO)indust r ia l  Techno logy  Research  Ins t i tu te ( ITR I )Chutung,  Hsinchu,  Taiwan, R.O.C.E-mai l :  X200PTS0@T~ITR I I .B ITNETAbstractIn machine translation, parsing of longEnglish sentences still causes some problems,whereas for short sentences a good machinetranslation system usually can generatereadable translations.
In this paper apractical method is presented for parsinglong English sentences of some patterns.
Therules for the patterns are treated separatelyfrom the augmented context free grammar,where each context free grammar rule isaugmented by some syntactic functions andsemantic functions.
The rules for patternsand augmented context free grammar arecomplimentary to each other.
In this waylong English sentences covered by thepatterns can be parsed efficiently.i.
IntroductionA long English sentence, from theparsing point of view, is defined as asentence which has complicated syntacticstructure or has too many words in it.
Somefactors which may contribute to the syntacticcomplication are words with multiplepart-of-speeches, conjunctions, prepositionalphrases, and commas, since the number ofpossible syntactic structures of a sentencegrows with the factors, it is not easy for amachine translation system to pick a rightsyntactic structure, based on syntacticknowledge and a little semantic knowledge\[l\],among the large set of possible syntacticstructures generated by the parser and theparsing time increases as well, due to theconstruction of many possible syntacticstructures.To put it in another way, sentenceparsing is a searching problem.
The parsingtime increases exponential ly as the branchingfactor, reflecting complicated syntacticstructure, and searching depth, reflectingactual sentence length, increase.
Insome-path bottom-up parsing\[2\], reducingbranching factor or using beam search method\[3\]\[4\] to restrict the value of branchingfactor may decrease parsing time.
However,basically, the parsing mechanism is stillexponential.As an example, for the Engllsh-Japanesemachine translation system, ATLAS II \[5\], intranslating the corpus of 220 sentencesselected from software manuals and papers,among the English sentences with usabletranslation, the average number of words ofthe sentences is 33.5".
For sentences withtranslation that needs some postediting andsentences with translation that can not beused, the average sentence lengths are 45.7and 46.8 words respectively.
In order tohave better performance, a machinetranslation system should be able totranslate sentences of reasonable length.2.
ERSO-ECMTThe English-Chinese machine translationsystem, ERSO-ECMT, has been developed inElectronic Research and ServiceOrgahization(ERSO), Industrial TechnologyResearch Institute(ITRI), Hsinchu, Taiwan,since July 1986.
Theanalysis/transfer/systhesis approach has beenadopted.
The system contains an augmentedcontext free gra\]~mar, where each context freegrammar rule is augmented by some syntacticfunctions, which reflect preference over somesyntactic structures, and semantic functions.The status of parsing process should satisfythe syntactic and semantic conditions beforethe parser applies the grammar rule toderivation~ The system translates onesentence at a time.
There is no informationfrom the context while translating thecurrent input sentence.
At present, thedomains of translation for ERSO-ECMT are incomputer science and environmentalprotection.
The samples from environmentalprotection include 871 sentences, with 19539words in total, excerpted from some abstractsof papers.
The average sentence length is18.3 words.
There are 42 sentences, about4.8 %, with number of words over 40.The characteristics of translation speedof ERSO-ECMT, run on LAMBDA LISP machine, forthe computer science corpus which is thefirst chapter of the UNIX manual are asfollows: for sentences of length less than34 words, the time for translation, inaverage, is within one minute and forsentences of length over 40 words and on, thespeed increases drastical ly (exponentially).In order to have reasonable translation time,say one minute for ERSO-ECMT, the length ofSentences should be limited.3.
Our ApproachIn addition to some-path bottom-upparsing for reducing branching factors, theinput sentence can be divided into severalmeaningful segments(i.e, reducing thesearching depth), then each segment is parsedseparately without exchanging informationwith the other segments, and finally theparsing results of all segments are combined.The Chinese translation will be based on thecombined parsing result.The parser of ERSO-ECMT first see if theinput sentence matches the long sentencepatterns.
It will do parsing in accordancewith the pattern having been matched,otherwise it will proceed parsing with theaugmented context free grammar.
In the caseof failing in getting a complete parsing treewith the long sentence pattern, the parserwill also do the same thing, trying to parsethe sentence with the augmented context freegrammar.The procedure for parsing with the 10ngEnglish patterns is as follows:410a.
Partit ions the input long sentence intosome meaningful segments:.Looks up the part it ion rules bypattern-matching with unification..If the resultant segments are stillwith length greater than 40, doespart i t ioning recursively on them,until no more pattern can be used.Note: in genera\], the resultant segments,such as Declarative Sentence(SDEC),Noun Phrase(NP), Inf init ivePhrase(INF), and Verb Phrase(VP),are big structures with some.k~ywords or some special structuresamong them in the sentential form.b.
Parses or translates each segmentseparately.c.
Co~ines  the results of all segments.d.
Generates the corresponding Chinesesentence.Note: The parser can either combine thesyntactic parsing results ofall segments and then generatecorresponding Chinese sentence,or generate Chinese translations ofall segments and then put them, bytransformation rules, in a sequencewith order not necessary that ofthe original English segments inthe input sentence.Before parsing a sentence, a sentencelength threshold, say 40 for ERSO-ECMT, can beset to indicate how long a sentence will beparsed with the pattern ~ rules.The format of the rules for long Englishpatterns in ERSO-ECMT is as follows:SEGRULE := (LHS RHS)LHS :,~ (E ... E)E :;= E1 I (El test)E1 :,--VAR I CAT I r ing I red i numengl lsh I (closure LHS) I (plus LHS)(opt El) .
.cAT  :~ a z x I art i b J o I h i ~ I ni P r v J  u i w I wn { ~~HS := (A ... A)A ::= (parse VAR node)I (parse transfer synthesis VAR)chineseVAR := %vi  I --- \[ %vnwhere "(" and ")": all terminals,SEGRULE : a r~lle for long Englishsegmentation,LHS: an augmented regular expression whichis compo6ed of a regularexpression and test(s),RHS: parsing action(s),test : a LISP function which implements thedesignated test,ving: a gerund, such as going, doing,ved: a verb with endinq "ed", where itindicates its past or past participleform,num: a number,english : an English word, or a symbol ofpunctuation,closure and plus: the functions * +corresponding to R and Rwhere R is a regular expression, (Thefunction are done by matching theshortest pattern, covered by thefunctions, in the input sentence.
)opt: an optional item,Each symbol of the right-hand side of CAT:part-of-speech or category.parse : the LISP function for doing parsing,node : a grammar node, a nonte~ninal of theparsing tree,parset rans fersynthes i s :the LISP function to do syntacticparsing, transformation, andgeneration,chinese : Chinese character(s), and%vl ... %vn: each of them being a variableto which a segment of the input Englishsentence will be bound.The reason for using the regularexpression is that some repeated elements canbe covered.
Although the expressive power ofthe regular expression is less than that o fthe augmented context free grammar already inthe system, they focus on two differentthings.
The augmented context free gra~nartakes care of detai led phrase structures,though it can deal with long sentences, notqui te  well in general, whereas the longsentence pattern rules handle some of longsentences by breaking them down into segmentsof some big structures and then the augmentedcontext free grammar takes care of all thesegments.4.
ExamplesExample I.
The following sentence matches thepattern (%vl ving %v2, (closure (ving %v3,))C ving %v4) where "c" is a conjunction.The air-use plans may be used as thebasic framework for achieving the desired airquality by such means as l imiting theemissions from individual sources, l imitingthe emissions from sources in certain areas,or disal lowing new pollutant sources inoverburdened areas.Example 2.
The following sentence matches thepattern (In order INF, SDEC).
The syntactictree is the combination of the trees of INFand SDEC.In order to evaluate or rank land useplans in terms of air quality, it isnecessary for planners to be able to projectemission density using only planningvariables, because detai led sourcecharacterist ics are not available at the timealternative plans are being developed andevaluated.Example 3.
The pattern (SDEC, because SDEC)can be used to parse the following sentence.The corresponding Chinese sentence can beobtained from the combination of the twoChinese segments for the two SDECs.Epa's preferred decision is to approveand support funding for the proposedalternative, because this is the mostcost-effect ive way of achieving federal andstate water-qual i ty goals, improving thequality of the rio grande, and protectingprime a~ricultural lands.Example 4.For some special sentence patterns, theyhave specif ic chinese translation.
Thefollowing is a pattern rule.
(Not that SDEC but that SDEC)5.
Result of parsing a sample of theenvironmental corpus411The results from parsing theenvironmental protect ion corpus mentioned ini.
are as follows.a.
Nu~er  of sentences with length > 40: 42 sentencesb.
Correct part it ion: 36 sentencesc.
Correct part it ion with correcttranslation: 28 sentencesd.
The percentage of c. over b.: 66.7 %e.
Average parsing time for these longsentences: 2 min/sentenceFor ERSO-ECMT, the rate of correctmatching is about one third of the total longsentence.
It can be improved by organizingmore rules to cover a large range ofsentences, but for some long sentenceswithout apparent features, there is nopattern rules for them.6.
DiscussionIn fact, the problems arising fromparsing long Engl ish sentence are thecombined effects of some problems, whichcould not be treated quite well, such aspreposit ional phrase attachment problems\[6\],compound noun phrases.
They are all aboutthe problems of the semantic relations amongwords or segments in sentences.
At presentthe ways for encoding and using massivesemantic information for a practical machinetranslation system of some domains, computerscience and environmental  protection, forexample, are not clear.
Basically theapproach here is not to solve all theproblems, but to break the sentence into somesegments within manageable size and then toparse them separately.In this way, since each segment isshorter than the original sentence, fail ingto construct a correct parsing result usually.affects only a shorter range of words, but itwastes time in parsing some pattern which isfound not appropriate for the input sentenceeventually.
In order not to do patternmatching so much, which is t ime-consuming,some patterns can be put under the word,which is the leading word of the pattern, ofthe dicionary, and some under the augmentedcontext free grammar rules of appropriatenonterminals to guide the parser before theparsing mechanism is initiated.
The parserwill check to see if the sentence is apart icular pattern by looking at the patternrule encountered in the dict ionary or in thegrammar rules in course of parsing and thentry to parse the other parts of th~ sentencewith the pattern rule found if any.7~ ConclusionFor short sentence, a good MT system canusually generate readable translation,whereas for long sentence the translation isusually not satisfactory.
A practical methodis presented for parsing long Englishsentence.
It bases on some patterns of longEnglish sentences.
The patterns can beinserted in the lexicon or the augmentedcontext free grammar to guide the parser.8.
AcknowledgementThe paper is a partial result of theproject No.
3131500 conducted by the ITRI412under sponsorship of the Minister of EconomicAffairs, R.O.C.9.
References\[i\] Jane J. Robinson, "DIAGRAM: A Gra~unar forDialogues", CoMmunications of ACM, January19S2, pp.
27-47.\[2\] W.S.
Bennett and J. Slocum, "The LRCMachine Translat ion System", ComputationalLinguistics, Vol.
ii, No.
2-3, April-September, 1985, pp.
112-121.\[3\] Keh-Yih Su, et al, "A New ParsingStrategy in Natural Language ProcessingBased on the Truncation Algorithm"~NCS 1987, Vol 2, pp.
580-586.\[4\] P.H.
Winston, "Artif icial Intell igence",Addison-Wesley, Reading, MA, USA, 1984.\[5\] Makoto Shiotsu, "Japanese Polish SupportSystem for the Japanese-Engl ishTranslation", The 35th National Conferenceof Information Processing Society ofJapan, September 1987(in Japanese), pp.1249-1250.\[6\] Y. Wilks and X.M.
Huang, "Syntax,Preference and Right Attachment",IJCAI-85, pp.
779-784.
