F INDING TRANSLAT ION EQUIVALENTS:  AN APPL ICAT ION OFGRAMMATICAL  METAPHORJ ohn  A. Bateman*USC/ In format ion  Sc iences  Ins t i tu te4676 Admira l ty  WayMar ina  del  Rey,  CA  90292 U .S .A .
(e-mail: bateman@isi, edu)Apr i l  4, 1990Abst ractIn this paper I describe how a significant class of casesthat would involve (possibly complex) structural trans-fer in nmchine translation can be handled avoiding trans-fer.
This is achieved by applying a semantic organizationdeveloped for monolingual text generation that is suffi-ciently abstract o remain invariant, within theoreticallyspecifiable limits, across different languages.
The furtherapplication of a mechanism otivated from within mono-lingual text generation, 'grammatical metaphor', thenallows candidate appropriate translations to be isolated.The incorporation of these essentially monolingual mech-anisms within the machine translation process promisesto significantly improve translational capabilities; exam-ples of this are presented for English and German.1 In t roduct ionHistorically there has rather little interaction be-tween work in text generation and machine trans-lation (MT) - -  even though language generationneeds to be an integral component of any cornpleteMT system.
Current text generation systems are,however, achieving results which can be beneficiallyapplied in the MT context.
In this paper, I de-scribe one such area of possible interaction betweenmechanisms developed for monolingual text gener-ation and the requirements of MT.
In particular,the increasing concern that text generation theoriesshow for higher levels of semantics and its realizationin linguistic form makes it possible to move awayfrom lower-level, 'structural'  transfer between lan-guages.
In Iket, some of the semantic specificationsnow being uncovered within text generation arc suf-ficiently abstract as to capture significant informa-tional invariances across languages.
Sophisticatedmonolingual generation components are able to gen-erate appropriate linguistic structures from such ab-stract informational specifications.
This avoids, inmany cases, problems of (possibly complex) struc-tural transfer.
There is no reason a priori for the*Much of the work reported here was carried out with thefinancial support  of the Inst i tut  fi',.
Angcwandte  hfformations-forschung at the University of the Saarland, S~mrbri'mken', ad-ditional support  was provided by AFOS\[{ contract, F49620-87-C-0005, and in part by DAI{PA contract MDAg03-87-C-641.The  opilfions in this report arc solely those of the author.Thanks  are due to Erich Steiner, Jgrg Schi'ltz, and C (~cilc Pro'isfor significant contr ibutions.linguistic structures generated by monolingual gen-erators for distinct languages for a given abstract se-mantic specification to be structurally similar: there-fore, translations that involve very diverse structuresare readily obtainable if they are semantically moti-vated.
Monolingual generation components of thetype described are also independently motivated bylanguage processing tasks that do not involve MTand so are ill any case required.
Providing for theirusage within the MT context also is therefore doublybeneficial.The particular mechanism developed within textgeneration that I will apply to MT problems hereis that of grammatical raelaphor (Ilalliday, 1985);grammatical metaphor was originally developedwithin the tradition of Systemic-Functional Linguis-tics and is now beginning to be applied withinthe PENMAN text generation system (Mann andMatthiessen, 1985; The Penman Project, 1989).Systemic-functional linguistics posits sets of map-pings between semantic information to be expressedand grammatical features.
One class of mappings istermed 'congruent', in that it offers an unmarked re-alization of a semantic concept type -- e.g., thata processual semantic entity is realized as a ver-bal constituent in the grammar -- while a fur-ther class of mappings is 'noneongrnent', in that it.enables marked correspondences between semanticsand grammar - -e .g .
,  in nominalizations where aprocessual ,;emantic entity is realized as a nominalconstituent in the grammar.
Below I show how theset of linguistic structures related by grammaticalmetaphor form a useful equivalence class for MT: i.e.,when seeking an appropriate translation tbr somesentence, one will often be found in the set of tar-get language sentences formed by generating fromthe corresponding abstract semantic specification in-voldng grammatical metaphor for variations in thestructures generated.To show how this works in more detail, I first de-scribe the level of abstract semantic information thatis currently used within the PENMAN system -- thiswe term the upper model- and the user interface tothe text generation system that it.
supports -- whichis called SPL.
Second, 1 provide more concr?~te exam-pies of two distinct kinds of grammatical metaphorthat we can now implement compntationally.
Andfinally, I go on to show their applica~:.ion to MT usingexamples from English and German.i 13// /2 The Upper  Model  and SPLThe PENMAN tipper model organizes the 'proposi-tional type' meanings that need to be expressed intext; it provides a general semantic taxonomy ofclasses of experiences and objects.
This classifica-tion can also be seen as an inheritance hierarchy thatorganizes concepts according to how they may be ex-pressed.
For example, the inheritance of certain rolesdefines the types of participants that processes mayhave and the types of qualities that may be ascribedto particular objects, while class-subclass relationscapture generalizations about possible grammaticaland lexical realizations of concepts.
Significantly,this orientation towards upporting rammatical re-alization renders the upper model independent ofparticular domains - -  the semantic taxonomy offersan organization that is required for any domain if it isto support natural anguage generation.
Rather finedistinctions are drawn by the current upper model,which contains approximately 200 concepts; detailsare provided in Bateman, Kasper, Moore, and Whit-ney (1990).The upper model supports specifications of sen-tence 'meaning' that may serve as input to a textgeneration system (Kasper, 1989a), or as outputfrom an analysis component (Kasper, 1989b).
Suchspecifications, which are expressed in the PENMANSentence: Plan Language (SPL), abstract beyondmany syntactic variations; they capture basic mean-ings - -  defined in terms of the upper model - -  thatmay be given a variety of linguistic realizations de-pending on other, specifiable, criteria.
One conse-quence of the abstractness of this representation isthat many sentences taken from distinct languagesthat would require complex structural transfer fortranslation simply share a common SPL representa-tion, thus requiring no transfer at all.
However, it isimportant o note that this is motivated by a com-monality in linguistic function when a sufficiently ab-stract standpoint is taken rather than on any claimsof universality; further details on the theoretical sta-tus of the shared representations are presented inBateman (1989).
We will see examples of the avoid-ance of structural transfer in Section 5.A simple example of an SPL specification usingthe upper model is shown below.
This shows theSPL specification for the sentence: (1) Mary cut herfinger.
(cut / directed-action:actor (mary / person):actee (finger / body-part:inalienable-possession-inversemary) )The labels cut ,  mary, and finger are instan-tial variables which may provide lexical infor-mation; each of these has to be assigned toa type (d i rec ted-act ion ,  person,  body-part )drawn from the generalized meanings defined inthe upper model.
Relationships between entitiesare specified by means of roles ( :ac tor ,  :ac tee ,: ina l ienab le -possess ion- inverse) ,  which arealso defined in the upper model.
We could, there-fore, gloss the meaning of this expression as a,dircclcd-action of an actor which affects one of theinalienable-possessions f that actor.
1 The position-ing of the general types and relationships within theupper model provides much of the information thata grammar needs for constraining possible surfacerealizations.
23 Grammat ica l  MetaphorsA powerful property of the relationship between theupper model and the grammar is the existence ofgrammatical metaphor.
Grammatical metaphor oc-curs when meanings are realized through 'nontypical'selections of grammatical features; such realizationscan be described systematically and bring their owndistinctive contributions to the meaning expressed(for a general typology, see Ravelli, 1985).
Two typesof grammatical metaphor which we are beginning tobe able to control computationally are rankshiflingand complexity metaphors.
Figure 1 shows the firstgrammatical decisions that must be made when be-ginning generation of a grammatical unit accordingto a systemic-functional grammar such as that usedwithin PENMAN.
For each meaning to be expressed,grammatical decisions must first be made as to therank of the grammatical unit that will be used - -i.e., clauses, groups (nominal, verbal, adverbial andprepositional), words, and morphemes - -  and thecomplexity of that grammatical unit - -  i.e., whetherthe unit is a single unit or some combination of simi-lar units (e.g., conjunction).
Traditionally, the map-ping between meanings to be expressed and thesegrammatical choices has been rather inflexible andlimited to congruenl realizations; i.e., by and large, aprocess-type meaning (activity, state, etc.)
would berealized by a selection of a simple clause, an object-type meaning by a selection of nominal, etc.
Gram-tactical metaphor makes explicit the fact that thisrelationship between meaning and grammatical formis considerably more flexible and many noncongruentrealizations are possible.Consider, for example, the SPL specification forexample sentence (2) The discharge of electricity re-suited in a breakdown of the system.
((cO / cause-effect :domain discharge:range breakdown)(discharge / directed-action:actee (electricity / substance))(breakdown / nondirected-action:actor (system / object)))When the grammatical alternatives of the grammarare considered, rather than automatically selecting1 Definitions of most of these upper model terms are givenin Bateman, Kasper, Moore and Whitney (1990).
\]: have ex-tended the actual classification given there b~, t'ncluding in-verse relations where necessary and by increasing the level ofdetail of description for the purposes of discussion.
In addi-tion, as with all the SPL examples given in this paper, I havemade the simplification of removing specifications of all non-upper model related information since these are not relevantfor the present discussion.2 The additional information ecessary to produce auniqueutterance is factored in SFL into three functional components:the logical, textual, and interpersonal ~metafunctions'.
Theinformation in the SPL is drawn from a fourth component:the experiential metafunction.
Only by combining meaningsfrom all four components are sufficient constraints providedfor a unique utterance (Matthiessen, 1987:258).
In Sections3-5, we see examples of variations in the constraints of thelogical metafimction, and in the Conclusion I return brieflyto the textual metafunction.
Interpersonal constraints havebeen assumed constant throughout.14 2~ C LA U~;F-..., N NGMINAL.~~.~ GROU!~~ V~RBAL'~~' - '~  PREPOSITIONAI~.Figure 1 The rank and complexity systems of thegrammarsome 'topmost'  node for immediate assignment toclause rank, the mechanism of rankshifting gram--matical metaphor interposes a decision procedurewhich selects an input term most appropriate forrealization as a clause.
Similar decisions are madeconcerning each rank in the grammar and the com-plexity at each rank.
This gives rise to the followingpossibilities for expression (focusing for the momentjust on the expression of the cause-effect relationshipand approximately preserving the textual organiza-tion):V-C1 Realization of cause-effect a clause complex rank:\]3ec~use lectricity was discharged, the systembroke down.V-C2 It.ealization of cause-effect a  clause rank:Electricity being diacharged resulted in the systembreaking down.V-C3 Realization of cause-effect a nominal group rank:Electricity being discharged was the cause of thesystem breaking down.V-C4 Realization of cause-etfect at circumstantial d-junct group rank:\]3ecause of electricity being discharged the sy.~tembroke down.A further range of variation of this kind subsumesthe problems of nominatization.
This is equally rele-vant to our current example.
For example, the SPLspecification of tile discharge situation alone could,simply by altering the rank at which it is to be real-ize(l, support the following variations:rank realizationclause electricity was discharged (V-N1)nominal group electricity being discharged (V-N2)discharge of electricity (V-N3)electricity's discharge (V-N4)We can take this further: the relationship betweenthe proce,~s and the actee of electricity can be real-ized within the modification systems of the nominalgroup at an even finer level; this gives (cf.
ttalliday,!985:160):(epithet) electrical discharge (V-N5)(classifier} electricity discharge (V-N6)These are all options provided by the current PEN-MAN grammar.
Example sentence (2) is then a com-bination of variation (V-C2) at clause rank and (V-N3) at nominal rank.These are all options provided by the current PEN-MAN grarrmlar.
Example sentence (2) is then a com-bination of variation (V-C2) at clause rank and fur-ther similar variations at nominal rank.4 The Appl icat ion to MTWe can also characterize certain kinds of variationobservable across languages in translation equiva-lents in exactly the terms provided by rankshiftingand complexity grammatical metaphors.
For exam-ple, a German translation equivalent to example sen-tence (1) would be: (3) Mary schnitt sich in denFinger.
(1) and (3) present problems for transferbecause the number of participants and surface sen-fence structures differ.
This requires that the pro-cesses involved be assigned to different classes andstructural transfer ules are then necessary to relatethe translatkmal possibilities.
However, the state ofaffairs in (1) and (3) can be described in terms ofthe same upper model categories regardless of theparticular language conside~vd, and this permits thegeneration of (3) from the same SPL specification as(1).Each monolingual grammar and lexicon will al-ready directly control the congruent assignment ofterms in the SPL to ranks of the grammar, althoughthis assignment will differ across languages just asit <lifters within languages when noncongruent as-signments are made by the rankshifting rammaticalmetaphor mechanism.
Thus, for (3), the first con-cept consumed uring generation - -  wilich therebybecomes tim 'head' of the highest level structure, i.e.
:the process of the clause --- is the directed-action cut-ling (schneiden); the second concept is the actor re-lationship between the process and the person Mary--- this is realized by a simple nominative Subject (inthe absence of other textual constraints that mighteffect voice, diathesis, etc.
); the third concept con-sumed is the relationship of inalienable-possesswnbetween Mary and finger--- this governs the selec-tion of beneficiary and its realization as a reflexivepronoun; the fourth is the actee relationship holdingbetween tile body-part finger and cutting - -  this isrealized as the prepositional head of a prepositionalgroup; and, finally, tile fifth concept consumed is theconcept finger itself --- which gives the dependentnominal within the prepositional group.
This con-trasts to the case for (1), where assignment of SPLterms to ranks follows the order: cuzting:clause,:ac tor  mary:nominal, :ac tee  f inger:nominal,: inalienable-possession-inverseteary: nominal- modifier.The grammar of English 'knows' that the :actee/ : ina l ienab le -possess ion  combination can berealized as a nominal group (her finger), while theGerman grammar needs to 'know' that the combi-nation requires both a nominal group (sich) and alocation specification (in den Finger).
This infofmarion is entirely motivated by individual anguage-internal considerations; both grammars and lexiconsare entirely monolingual and independent of eachother and of their use for translation.An SPL expression can therefore receive a varietyof linguistic realizations, even across dis;tinct lan-guages.
This extension to muttilingnality does not3 15add to the complexity of the realization mechanism,since the grammatical metaphor mechanism whichsupports it is already required for monolingual gener-ation; once a monolingual grammar for any languageis in place, these realizational possibilities for MTfollow also.
Grammatical metaphor thus providesa mechanism by which a syntactically neutral SPLspecification licenses a set of metaphorically relatedrealizations in any language for which an appropri-ate grammar has been constructed.
3 A contextuallysuitable translation is then often found in the set ofsentences related by grammatical metaphor that atarget language supports.
The kind of translationalmapping this provides is shown in Figure 2.5 Fur ther  examples  o f  theut i l i ty  o f  the  mechan ism forMT5.1 Verb  and  prepos i t iona l  phrasecombinat ionsA likely German translational equivalent for examplesentence (2) above is: 4 (4) Wegen der elektrischeuEnlladung brach das System zusammcn.
Again, thestructures of the two sentences are quite different- -  a simple process in (2) seems to have been de-composed into a prepositional phrase in (4) - -  andthis would require complex structural transfer.
How-ever, the SPL provided for sentence (2) already en-tails both realizations: the clause structure of (4) isidentical to variation type (V-C4) of the metaphorsetfi All that needs to be altered is the lexical infor-mation pointed at by the instantial variables.5.2 NominalizationsThe principles of grammatical metaphor also ap-ply across languages within nominal phrases.
Forexample, in the translation pair of sentences (2)and (4), we can also see a difference in the struc-ture of the corresponding nominal phrases: dischargeof electricity and elektrische Entladung.
In termsof the possible realization variants for this nominalphrase: the English has selected (V-N3), the Ger-man (V-N5).
The same holds for the other processin the pair concerning the system breakdown.
Hereagain, therefore, the metaphor set contains appropri-ate translations whose structures are rather different.3 PENMAN provides an appropr iate grammar  for English,and a similarly appropr iate grammar  for German is currentlyunder construct ion wathJn the KOMET text generation project(Steiner et al, 1989).
Bateman and Li (1988) reports onearlier experiments with similar grammars for Japanese andClfinese.4 Note that  I am not claiming that  these sentences providethe only translat ions of each other.
The argument  rests uponthese being possible desired translat ion equivalents in somepart icular circumstances.3 Al though a similar range of possibilities (V-C1 - V-C4)are theoretical ly available for the realization of the SPL inGermma, not a l l  possible variations are equally acceptable inall contexts.
For example, the realization of the cause-effectrelat ion at clause rank calls for a process to realize that  re-lation: a plausible selection on the basis of similarity withthe English sentence might appear to be the verb 'resultieren'- -  however, this is very marked.
The realization at circum-stantial  adjunct group rank (in German with, e.g., a wegen-adjunct) is often preferable.5.3 Rea l i za t ions  of modal i tyConsider the following translation pair (Schlitz,1989), which is again problematic in a transfer-basedfl'amework that relies on representations less ab-stract than that of the upper model and SPL becausethe structures are very different:(5) John is likely to implement the algorithmA ) John implementiert wahrseheinlich denlgorithmus(5) and (6) both share a common SPL representa-tion:(I implement~ / directed, action) :actor John \[ .. ctoe  Igor t m-- T/ probable))As before, several differential realizations of thisSPL can be generated by allowing the grammaticalmetaphor mechanisms to order the consumption ofterms as heads at differing ranks in the grammar.For example, the orderings \[D A B C\], \[A D B C\] and\[A B C D\] support clause structures with the follow-ing dependency organizations respectively, showingrealizations of the statement of probability at clausecomplex rank, verbal group rank, and circumstantialadjunct rank:(i) \[1 It  is l ikely\]\[z that  \[3 John\ ]  imp lements\[, tile a lgor i thm\] \ ](ii) \[, \[, John\ ]  \[2 \[3 is l ikely to\]implement\] \[sthe algorithm\]\](iii) \[, \[2 John\] will \[4 probably\] implement\[s the algorithm\]\]\[x \[2 John\] implementiert \[4wahrscheinlich\]\[3 den algorithmus\]\]What would previously have required rather com-plex transfer mechanisms, therefore, is here an auto-matic consequence of tile realizational mechanisms.5.4 Across the text/grammarboundaryAs a final example of the generality of the mecha-nisms described here (for further examples, see Bate-man, 1989), it is also possible to consider dependencyrelations defined above the clause complex as possibletargets.
The 'highest' rank assignment for the cause-effect relationship suggested so far has been that ofclause complex; this is the highest rank available inthe grammar.
However, in current work in the PEN-MAN group on Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST:Mann and Thompson, 1987), there is the possibilityof extending this view to consider the dependencyrelationships defined across sentences in texts.
If thefollowing translation pair were desirable, for exam-ple, then we see precisely this kind of variation mul-tilingually:(7) After you had explained your views, Icould see them much better.
(8) Du erkl~irtest deine Position, Danachverstand ich sie viel besser.16 4MggAMIORIC~LLY-RELATED8~Tatt.~ o*~lnx ,S t-....S, /SPL(p0 / pmc~t~: ro le ,: rol~ a: )MRTAM IORIC,%LI.Y.Ill~LATIr l)TI ?lat~ eoml~lu/L ~ i ~  La~c~eo~rn~u~rLz L :Figure 2: Mapping between sets related by grammatical metaphorFocusing on the temporal/causal relationship ex-pressed between the two situations described, bothsentences can receive the combined SPL and RSTspecification:((rO / rst-sequence :domain erklaeren: range verstehen)(erklaeren / verbal-process :sayer you: message views)(verstehen / mental-process :senser f.: phenomenon views: propel~y-ascription(better / evaluative~qualiZy)))Sentence (8) preserves the realization of the RSTrelation at the text level and so produces two in-dependent sentences.
The next available strategyfor realization is within the grammar, at clause rankwith complexing.
This realization is adopted in theEnglish variant (7).
Again, therefore, the metaphor-set provides a powerful ink between translationallyequivalent texts, even beyond the boundaries of thegrammar.
Work on this will continue as our devel-opment of RST and text organization continues.o o 6 Conc lusmn.
Future  direc-t ionsFollowing from earlier experiments in the integrationof Machine Translation (MT) and text generation(Bateman, Kasper, Schlitz, and Steiner, 1989), wehave found that the combination of two componentsof the Systemic-Functional Linguistic (SFL) modelof language (Halliday, 1985; Matthiessen, 1987), suchas are being developed for computational use withinthe PENMAN text generation system, significantly re-duces tlhe need for structural transfer in machinetranslation (MT) without requiring deep modellingof specific domains.
These two components may bedescribed thus:?
a linguistically motivated organization of gen-eral semant ic  distinctions that are not highlylanguage-specific and that hold across both dif-fering domains and differing languages - -  thislevel of organization is realized computation-ally within the PENMAN system as the uppermodel;?
a particular class of mapping relations betweenthis abstract semantic organization and lin-guistic fo rm-  these mappings are motivatedby the notion of 'grammatical metaphor'.The examples of the previous section made thepoint that the level of grammatical metaphorical re-alization is not preserved uring translation, but theset of possibilities defined by granmmtical metaphorprovides trong candidates for high quality transla-tion equivalents, ttowever, since SPL forms decom-mit from so much of the surface syntax, it is nec-essary to control the range of linguistic realizationsthat are compatible with the constraints SPL spec-ifications represent.
The types of control that arenecessary already constitute major areas of active re-search within the PENMAN teXt generation project,where the principal type of constraint under devel-opment is textual.
It is reasonable to assume thattextual organization, including the particular pat-terns of thematic development adopted by a text,is one type of meaning which needs to be preservedin translation.
Metaphorically related clauses oftenhave rather different textual organizations and soparticular choices of clause may be motivated by theneed to achieve particular thematic developments.A rather more global kind of textual constraint isthat created by the 'style' of a text as a whole.
Thus,for example, the translation process hould not selectas translation equivalents entences whose stylisticimport were radically divergent.
This, however, canonly be established on the basis of analyses of whatconstitutes an appropriate text style for a particularcommunicative situation.
This is being addressed intext generation i  terms of the SFL notion of register(Bateman and Paris, 1989), and its application toMT is pursued in Paris (forthcoming).The relevance of textual constraints i also not lim-ited to the simple types of grammatical metaphor il-lustrated in this paper; for example, there are also'metaphors of transitivity' which chang(: the process-type involved, e.g.
:(9) electricity was discharged : directed-action(10) there was a discharge of electricity: re-lationM5 17Variations such as these provide significantly dif-ferent thematization options.
In certain cases, there-fore, in order to achieve a particular thematic de-velopment for a text in a given language, this kindof metaphor may be the only means available forachieving a syntactically thematizeable constituent.This type of grammaticM metaphor can also bemotivated by the need to preserve Aklionsarl (cf.Vendler, 1!)67).
In the following translation pair, forexample, we need to change the transitivity type ofthe predicate in order to preserve the accomplish-ment Aktionsart.
6(11) Wit erarbeiteten uns die Theorie(12) We worked ourselves into the theoryFinally, the lexical entries of certain languagesmay also restrict the types of alternatives that areavailable.
If one language simply does not have alexical item for realizing a meaning at a given rank,then another ank will be pursued.Many of the mechanisms that need to be sup-ported for these capabilities to be achieved areequally relevant in the generation of texts from sin-gle languages.
We expect, therefore, that the resultswe are obtaining in a monolingual setting --- par-ticularly those concerned with the creation of texts,rather than sentences - -  will generalize well to ap-plication in multilingual environments such as MT.References\[1\] Bateman, John A.
(1989) 'Upper Modelling for Ma-chine Translation: a level of abstraction for preserv-ing meaning'.
EUROTaA-D Working Paper.
Institutfiir Angewandte Informationsforschung a  der Uni-versit/~t des Saarlandes, Saarbriicken.\[21 Bateman, John A., Kasper, Robert T., Moore, Jo-hanna D., and Whitney, Richard (1990) 'A generalorganization of knowledge for natural language pro-cessing - -  the PENMAN Upper Model'.
ISI ResearchReport, USC/Information Sciences Institute, Ma-rina del Rey, California.\[3\] Bateman, John A., Kasper, Robert T., Schlitz,JSrg F.L., Steiner, Erich tI.
(1989) 'A new view onthe process of translation'.
Proceedings of the 4th.European Conference of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics, Manchester, England.
Alsoavailable in the ISI Reprint Series, report RS-89-234, USC/Information Sciences Institute, Marinadel Rey, California.\[4\] Bateman, John A. and Li, Hang (1988) 'The appli-cation of systemic-functionM grammar to Japaneseand Chinese for use in text generation'.
Proceed-ings of the 1988 International Conference on Com-puter Processing of Chinese and Oriental Lan-guages, Toronto, Canada, pp443-447.
Also availablein the ISI Reprint Series, USC/Information SciencesInstitute, Marina del Rey, California.\[5\] Bateman, John A. and Paris, C&ile L. (1.989)'Phrasing a text in terms a user can understand'.In Proceedings of the International Joint Confer-ence on Artificial Intelligence, IJCAI-89, Detroit,Michigan.\[6\] Haltiday, M.A.K.
(1985) Introduction to FunctionalGrammar.
London: Edward Arnold.6Thls is a very important capability to provide for thewhole area of translation of gemnan and Slavic "Pr~fixverben"(Steiner, p.c.
),\[7\]\[8\]\[9\]\[10\]\[11\]\[12\]\[13\]\[14\]\[15\]\[16\]Kasper, Robert T. (1989a) A Flexible Interface forLinking Applications to Penman's Sentence Gen-erator.
In Proceedings of the DARPA Speech andNatural Language Workshop, Philadelphia, Febru-ary 1989.Kasper, Robert T. (1989b) 'Unification and Classi-fication: an experiment in information-based pars-ing'.
In International Workshop on Parsing Tech-nologies, 28-31 August, 1989, Carnegie-Mellon Uni-versity, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA, ppl-7.Mann, William C., and Matthiessen, ChristianM.I.M.
(1985) 'A demonstration of the Nigel textgeneration computer program'.
In Benson, J.D.
andGreaves, W.S.
(eds.)
Systemic Perspectives on Dis-course: Volume 1; Selected Theoretical Papers fromthe 9th International Systemic Workshop.
New Jer-sey, Ablex.
pp50-83.Mann, William C. and Thompson, Sandra (1987)'Rhetorical Structure Theory: a theory of text or-ganization'.
In Livia Polanyi (ed.)
The Structure ofDiscourse, Norwood, New Jersey: Ablex PublishingCorporation.Matthiessen, Christian M.I.M.
(1987) 'Notes on theOrganization of the environment of a text genera-tion grammar'.
In Kempen, G.
(ed.
)(1987) NaturalLanguage Generation: Recent Advances in ArtificialIntelligence, Psychology, and Linguistics.
MartinusNijhoff Publishers, Dordrecht, pp253-278.Paris, C6cile.
L. (forthcoming) 'User modelling, reg-ister, and machine translation'.
To appear as aEUROTRA-D Working Paper, Institut fiir Ange-wandte Informationsforschung, Saarbriicken.The Penman Project (1989) 'The PENMAN docu-mentation: Primer, User Guide, Reference Manual,and Nigel Manual'.
USC/ Information Sciences In-stitute.Ravelli, Louise J.
(1985) 'Metaphor, Mode andComplexity: an exploration of co-varying pa.tterns'.University of Sydney, Department of Linguistics.B.A.
Honours thesis.Schi~tz, Jbrg F.L.
(1989) 'Towards a framework forknowledge-based translation'.
Proceedings of 13thGerman Workshop on Artificial Intelligence, 1989,Springer Verlag.
Also available as IAI/Eurotra-DWorking Paper No.
10, Saarbr~ckeu.Steiner, Erich, Bateman, John, Maier, Elisabeth,Teich, Elke and Wanner, Leo (1989) 'Of hills toclimb and ships to sink - -  generating Germanwithin a functional approach to text generation'.Arbeitspapiere der GMD, Gesellschaft fiir Mathe-matik und Datenverarbeitung, Integrated Pubhca-tion and Information Systems Insitute, Darmstadt.\[17\] Vendler, Z.
(1967) Linguistics in Philosophy.
Ithaca,N.Y.
: Cornell University Press.18 6
