When Something Is Missing:Ellipsis, Coordination and the ChartAlberto Lavelli and Oliviero StockIstituto per la Ricerca Scientifica e TecnologicaI - 38050 Povo TN, Italylavelli@irst.it / stock@irst.itAbstractThis paper deals with two linguisticphenomena which are usually considered casesof ill-formedness by the computationallinguistics community: intersentential el ipsisand coordination (possibly with gaps).
Wepresent an original solution, if compared tothose already known for the two phenomena.This solution is conceived within a relevantapproach to parsing, i.e.
chart parsing, and iscoherent with the basic ideas of this approach.I .
IntroductionThe ability to face and resolve problems associatedwith ill-formedness i fundamental in order to makenatural language interfaces usable (see \[Carbonell andHayes, 1983\] for a review of the problems of ill-formedness and of techniques used to resolve them).We shall focus on two phenomena: intersententialellipsis and coordination (possibly with gaps).Ellipsis is a very common phenomenon and isfrequently encountered in dialogues between persons.Up to the present, studies on natural languageinteraction with computers generally highlight thefrequency of this phenomenon, (see, for example,\[Eastman and McLean, 1981\]).For this reason, ellipsis has received muchattention and different solutions have been proposedbased on the mechanism used to analyze the sentence:semantic grammars (the LIFER/LADDER system\[Hendrix, 1977\]), ATN \[Kwasny and Sondheimer,1981, Weischedel and Sondheimer, 1982\], or case-frame instantiation (the XCALIBUR system\[Carbonell et al, 1983\]).As far as coordination is concerned, it is alsofrequently considered a phenomenon f ill-fomaednessfor the following reasons:- since every pair of constituents of the samesyntactic category may be coordinated, if thegrammar specifically included all thesepossibilities it would greatly increase the size ofthe grammar itself;- a constituent inside a coordination may have gaps(that is, missing elements) that, in general, are notallowed in constituents of the same type.Even in the most purely linguistic area,coordination has not received in-depth treatment, if notrecently (for example, see \[Sag et al, 1984\] and\[Kaplan and Maxwell, 1988\]).Until the beginning of the 80's almost no system(the most relevant exception being the SYSCONJmodule, present in the LUNAR system \[Woods,1973\]) has confronted coordination i  a generalizedmanner.
The 80's have seen renewed computationalinterest in coordination that has brought new efforts(see \[Kwasny and Sondheimer, 1981\], \[Dahl andMcCord, 1983\], \[Fong and Berwick, 1985\], \[Lesmoand Torasso, 1985\], \[Kosy, 1986\] and \[Proudian andGoddeau, 1987\]).In this paper we present a solution to both theproblems outlined above (that is, ellipsis andcoordination).
The solution is original with respect tothose presented in the literature in that it is based onchart parsing \[Kaplan, 1973, Kay, 1980\], an approachlittle used to treat iU-formedness until now.
t For bothproblems the solution is based on a strategy that usesthe information contained in the structures produced bythe parser (as is the case in almost all the workmentioned in this introduction; for a pragmatics-basedapproach to ellipsis, see \[Carberry, 1989\]).Both the solutions proposed have been insertedinto WEDNESDAY 2 \[Stock, 1989\], a chart-basedparser used in a dialogue system for Italian; attentionhas been paid to distinctive aspects of this language(for example, the relative liberty of order inside asingle constituent).
The process of building theanalysis is based on a sort of unification.
The parser isbuilt so that it may be connected to a semantic (andpossibly pragmatic) discrimination component; in thisway, the discrimination is carried out incrementally asthe syntactic analysis proceeds.
All examples in thispaper are in Italian.2.
El l ipsisFirst, consider an example of ellipsis (upon which aninformal description of this solution will rely):UseE Giotto ritrasse S.Francesco inun' opera di Assisi?\[Did Giotto portray St.Francis in amasterpiece located in Assisi ?\]System: si, ad esempio nella Predica agliuccelli.\[Yes, for example in the Sermon to thebirds.
\]USeF.
Gioacchino in un affresco di Padova?\[Gioacchino in a fresco located inPadova ?\]In the elliptical sentence two constituents may bedistinguished: the noun phrase Gioacchino and theprepositional phrase in un affresco di Padova.Substitution of some constituents of the precedingsentence is foreseen with the recognized constituents1 Always in the area of chart-based parsin 8 see \[Mellish,1989\], who, however, deals with other problems of ill-formedness, i.e.
the presence of unknown words and ofspurious constituents.184in the elliptical sentence, respecting, in essence, theordering of the two sentences (this means that theelliptical sentence I n  un  a f f resco  d i  PadovaGLoacch ino?
\[lit.
In a f resco  located  inPadova Gioacchino .9\] wollld not be roc0gnizab\]e andthe associated ellipsis would not be resolvable).
In thiscase it is necessary to find the points in the precedingsentence in which to insert the fragmentsGioacehinoand in un al fresco di Padova.
Onc~the points of insertion are found, the parser estarts.The semantic orrectness of the proposed hypothesischecked through the usual semantic ontrol duringunification.
In this example, the first possiblesolution, starting from the left and moving right, is:- Gioacehino ins~ad0f Giotto- in un a l f resco  di Padova  instc~qd of inun'opera di Assisiwhich gives the sentence Gioacch ino  r i t rasseS,Franeesco in un af f resco di Padova?
\[DidGioacchino portray St. Francis in a frescolocated in Padova ?\].
Actually, already during aninitial unification this possibility is rejected forsemantic and contextual reasons (given that there is nopainter named Gioacchino).
The followingsubstitution is then tried:Gioaechino instead 0f s. Francescoin Eua a f f resco  di Padova  instead of inun'opera di Assisiwhich produces the sentence G io t to  r i t rasseGioacch ino  in un a l f resco  di Padova?
\[DidGiotto  por t ray  G ioacch ino  in a f rescol ocated  in  Padova  ?\].
This represents ile cor rec tinterpretation f the ellipsis.It must be emphasized the fact that work is neverduplicated; this positive characteristic of the chart isrespected by our solution since (as will be seen in thealgorithm) the base mechanism of the general case ispreserved.2.1.
The algorithmNow the algorithm for resolving ellipsis will bedescribed more formally.
That will be done byconsidering the most complex case, substitution (evenmultiple), in the general case.
Firstly, provision ismade for saving the chart, called model chart, built forthe preceding sentence (in which all the edges, activeand inactive, that have contributed to building thecorrect analysis for that sentence are saved).
Then, anattempt is made to analyze the next elliptical sentence,partially building another structure, called fragmentschart (the construction of this second structure can becarried on and concluded uring resolution of theellipsis).The algorithm tbr treatment of ellipsis consists ofalternate scanning of the model chart and fragmentschart.
When a vertex is tbund in the model chart fromwhich a cycling edge exits that is of the same categoryas the inactive edge I' exiting the vertex of thefragments chart upon which it is positioned, then theinactive dge I (generated from the given cycling edge)of the model chart is substituted by the inactive dge I'of the fragments chart.
Thereafter the parser is restartedby the usual mechanism (the substitution concerns notonly edge 1, but all the inactive edges that that edgesubsumes and all the active edges that subsume dge Ior some of the edges subsumed by I.
This aspect ofthe algorithm is consistent with some of thetechniques used in \[Wir6n, 1989\]).
In essence thealgorithm is expectation-driven, given that thefragment is inserted where there is a cycling edge thatwants it.
In this way, the expectations created by thepreceding sentence are taken into account to guide thesearch tot a solution to the ellipsis.Because an agenda is used to manage the chart, thealgorithm is sufficiently simple and causes onlylimited changes in normal functioning of the parser.~Ihere ~tre two different phases:i) activation of the mechanism (that is, the searchfor the vertex where to insert he first fragment thatrestarts the usual mechanism);ii) the next phase brings only effects of themodification of the function that selects the taskscontained in the Agenda.The algorithm uses pointers to the vertices of thetwo charts: Remaining-ModelChart for the model chartand Remaining-FragmentsChart for the fragmentschart, which are initialized at the initial vertex of therespective chart.
First of all, consider the activationphase:1. for all cycling edges C exiting from the vertex ofRemaining-ModelChart, a check is done todetermine whether among the inactive edgesleaving the vertex of Remaining-FragmentsChartthere is one, I', of the same syntactic ategory asC; if yes, go to point 2, otherwise moveRemaining-ModelChart to the next vertex in themodel chart and return to the beginning of point 1;2. save the preceding context (what this means will bemade clearer at the end of the algorithmformulation);3. remove the edge I, generated from the cycling edgeC, from the model chart (together with thosespecified above) and put a task into the Agenda thatinserts the edge I' into the model chart;4. move the pointers Remaining-ModelChart andRemaining-FragmentsChart to the arrival vertex ofthe inactive dges selected in the model chart andfragments chart respectively;5. start the normal mechanism (with the only changebeing that to the selection function indicatedbelow) on the model chart thus modified;6. if the process in point 5 does not succeed, it isnecessary to backtrack, which means return topoint 1 after having reestablished the precedingcontext and having moved Remaining-ModelChartto the next vertex of the model chart.Now, we analyze the way in which tile functionthat selects the tasks contained in the Agenda ismodified:1. when a task that extends an active edge A with aninactive edge I is to be executed, check whetheramong the inactive edges leaving the vertex ofRemaining-FragmentsChart there is one, I', of thesame syntactic ategory as I; if yes, go to point 3,otherwise go to point 2;2. move Remaining-ModelChm't to he arrival vertexof edge I and exit from the function normally2 185executing the task selected;3. save the preceding context (what this means will bemade clearer at the end of the algorithmformulation);4. the task selected is removed from the Agenda;5. remove dge I from the model chart (together withthose specified above) and put a task into theAgenda that inserts the edge I' into the model chart;6. move the pointers Remaining-ModelChart andRemaining-FragmentsChart to the arrival vertex ofthe inactive dges selected in the model chart andfragments chart respectively;7. start he normal mechanism on the model chart thusmodified;8. if the process in point 7 does not succeed,backtrack, which means go to point 2 after havingreestablished the preceding context.Some aspects of the backtracking mechanism arenow specified (and with them the reason for saving andreestablishing the contexts): backtracking is hereintended exclusively as a nondeterministic strategyrelative to the insertion of e l l ip~m__?__0~.
Thisdoes not impinge in any way upon the chartmechanism, which continues to provide flexible andefficient nondeterministic management.
Furthermore,intuitively, the ellipsis resolution algorithm will onlyhave to work on a very limited number of fragments,as they occur in man-machine interaction.
Thisconsidered, the complexity of the algorithm remains,in practice, within acceptable limits (as well-knownfor the chart).How this is applied to the example given at thebeginning of this section (and repeated here) will nowbe considered:User: Giotto ritrasse S.Francesco inun'opera di Assisi?\[Did Giotto portray St.Francis in amasterpiece located in Assisi ?\]System: si, ad esempio nella Predica agliuccelli.\[Yes, for example in the Sermon to thebirds.
\]User: Gioacchino in un affresco di Padova?\[Gioacchino in a fresco located inPadova ?\]Figure l shows the model sentence with therelevant cycling edges; Figure 2 shows the inactiveedges for Gioacch ino  and in un a f f resco  diPadova.
The activation phase immediately brings intooperation the substitution of the inactive edge thatgoes from vertex 1 to vertex 2 (G io t to )  with theinactive edge of the fragments chart that representsG ioacch ino ;  after this substitution and opportunechanges to Remaining-ModelChart mad to Remaining-FragmentsChart, the parser is restarted, but it failsbecause of a violation of semantic restrictions.
Thisfailure causes backtracking to begin and therefore toseek another vertex in which to make the substitution.This vertex is number 3, from which an inactive dgeterminating in 4 that has recognized s. Francesooexits.
This edge is then substituted with the inactiveedge of the fragments chart that representsG ioacch ino .
The parser works normally untilRemaining-ModelChart points to vertex 4 and the taskselection function must extend the active S edge withan inactive PP edge (which extends from vertex 4 tovertex 9).
In this case it can substitute the inactive PPedge \[in un 'opera  di Assisi\] with in unaf f resco di Padova  and therefore restart the chml,which reaches the conclusion of the analysis.Returning to a more general consideration on theworking of the algorithm, note that sluicing (forexample, Giotto dipinse affreschi in Veneto?\[Did Giotto paint frescoes in Venetia?\] Saiquando?
\[Do you know when ?\]) since it includes wh-words, causes the bottom-up introduction of a cyclingedge for a sentence with long distance dependencies.Expansion is much simpler - it is convenient toallow adjunctive adverbs to be inserted only at a fixedposition in the sentence (e.g., extreme left), withobvious advantages ofefl'iciency for the parser.1 2 3 4 5 6Giotto ritrasse ~ ~ S.Francesco in un' operaU U k /  NP NP PP NPFigure 1.
Model sentence with the cycling edges relevant for the example.NPGioacchino7 8 9?
.
.
.
.
Odi AssisiPPPPm un affresco di PadovaFigure 2.
The inactive dges of the fragments G ioacch ino  and in un a l f resco  di  Padova.186 3Ix l~aFigure 3.
Coordination rule.We conclude this section with a couple of remarks.The first one concerns preferences for the insertion offragments: for many kinds of dialogues it seemsreasonable to use a heuristics that favors the insertionof the elements of the fragments chart all at the samelevel inside one constituent.
The second one concernsunification (or any other mechanism that one woulduse for functional control in connection with thechart); this would prevent he analysis of: G io t tonacque a Padova?
\[Was Giotto born in Padova?\] I Lorenzet t i  a S iena?
\[The Lorenzett ibroth,grs in Siena ?\] (ill which the subjects of thetwo sentences differ in some features, in this case thenumber).
This aspect emphasizes the need to employrelaxation techniques in the unification mechanism inorder to be able to accept this kind of ellipticalsentence.3.
CoordinationIf the pm'ser uses a top-down strategy (as is usual inATN and logic grammars), it must hypothesize astructure for the second conjunct without anyknowledge of its actual structure.
Since this may beany structure that parallels that of a constituent thatends immediately before the conjunction, the parsermust build and check all these possibilities to find theright ones; all this leads to a combinatorial explosionof possfbilities.A chart-based approach allows a naturalfactorization in constituent construction, therebylimiting the exponential explosion of possibleanalyses, a negative characteristic of SYSCONJ andother systems.
Moreover, a bottom-up strategyprovides further inlormation to guide the parser in theanalysis of successive coordination constituents.In the following, only coordination of constituentsbelonging to the same syntactic ategory and adjacentis considered.Three changes to the normal chart mechanism arenecessary to treat coordination (plus the introductionof metarules for the coordination of constituentscontaining aps, see ?
3.1) and concern:1) the configuration of an inactive dge Ix followedby an inactive edge Iand (conjunction type),that causes the insertion of new active edges;2) features that must be associated with coordinatedexlges;3) for a system that incorporates a mechanismbased on unification (see, for example,\[Shieber, 1986\]), the way in which themechanism is activated when an active edgeincorporates an inactive ont.The first change (shown in Figure 3) causes theinsertion of an active edge AX (of the same category asIx and nmrked as destined to recognize a coordinated==5IX IAndA'xstructure) that covers the two inactive edges ix andIAnd, and of a cycling edge A'X of the same category asIx (if not there already).
The cycling extge A'x is meantto recognize the coordinated constituent.As for tile features associated with the edge, in caseof coordination it may occur that a noun phrase hassome features (in particular gender and number)different from those of the coordinated elements: forexample, the noun phrase i l  ragazzo  e laragazza  (the boy and the girl) has the features"Gender Masculine, Ntnnber Plural", in part differentfrom those of the noun phrases that compose it.
Thismodification is necessary for running control ofagreement (as, tor example, between subject and verb).Finally, it is necessary to modify the unificationmechanism so as to permit manipulation of sets ofelements (as it occurs in coordination): suchmodifications allow correct management of thefeatures of sets (as illustrated in the precedingparagraph) and must keep track of the semanticrepresentation with which to label the sets.An example of coordination of completeconstituents i now considered, to illustrate whathappens inside the chart:Giot to  e Orcagna d ip insero  un a l f resco  aPadova?\[Did Giotto andOrcagna paint a fresco inPadova .6\]Here coordination concerns the two noun phrasesG io t to  and Oreagna;  obviously, the verb isconjugated in the third person plural because it agreeswith the two coordinated noun phrases that musttherefore have the features "Gender Masculine, Num~rPlural" (confirming the necessity of the changepreviously presented on the features of tile sets formedbecause of coordination).3.1 .
Coord inat ion  of const i tuents withgapsOur approach to the problem of constituentscontaining gaps consists of introducing metarulesassociated with some configurations of the rules.
Thememrules allow an active edge to be inactivated underconditions for which this normally is not permitted(for example, when the head of a constituent has notyet been found).
These metarules must be applicableonly to active edges contiguous with a conjunctiontype inactive edge (thereby limiting the growth ofinactive edges introduced by metarules).
Introductionof metarules carries out only a part of the worknecessary to treat coordination of constituentscontaining aps ; the remaining part must be carriedout during unification of the edges that haverecognized the two conjuncts.
At this point it isnecessary to fill the gaps, using intormation brought4 187by the complete constituent.
Several proposals havebeen made for carrying out this role (among them \[Saget al, 1984\] and \[Kaplan, 1987\]).
For example,priority union (proposed in \[Kaplan, 1987\] as a meansof assigning correct interpretations to constructionscontaining gaps in the framework of Lexical-Functional Grammar) which, in Kaplan's originalformulation, is an operator that transforms apair of f-structures into a new f-structure, so that the values ofone of the two f-structures (that with priority) areconserved and the other f-structure furnishes defaultvalues, if any.
The suitability of this method forconfronting the phenomenon needs further study, as domany aspects of metarules.The following sentence will be used as anexample:Giotto dipinse un affresco e Orcagna unpolitt ico?\[Did Giotto paint a fresco and Orcagna apolyptych .9\]The parser works normally until an active S edge(that covers the sentence fragment Oreagna unpoZi t t ico)  is inserted into the chart o the immediateright of the conjunction.
Such an edge may be madeinactive by a metarule that establishes that a type S(coordinated) constituent may be accepted even withoutits head.
The parser then continues working regularlyuntil unification of the edges that recognize theconjunction is attempted and an effort is made to fillthe gap present in the second conjunct using the headof the first conjunct.In applying metarules it is possible to useheuristics that put restrictions on the ordering of theconstituents contained in the second conjunct.
Forexample, it is more likely that the correctinterpretation is that in which the last constituentpresent (linearly) in the input part of the sentencerecognized by the right conjunct corresponds to theconstituent that is found furthest o the right in thefirst conjunct.
Another possibility is that of imposingthat the order of the constituents inside the twoconjuncts must be parallel; but, in this case, thesentence Giot to  d ip inse  un a l f resco  e unpo l i t t i co  Orcagna?
tilt.
Did Giotto portray afresco and a polyptych Orcagna ?\] would not becorrectly interpretable.
Certainly, sentences such asthis last are to be considered correct, even if unusual inspoken language.
On the other hand, these restrictionsserve to limit the proliferation of interpretations thatafflicts languages such as Italian that have relativelyfree ordering of the elements inside singleconstituents,4.
ConclusionsWe have presented a solution for two phenomena ofill-formedness (that is, ellipsis and coordination), asolution that fits coherently into a chart-basedapproach.As for intersentential ellipsis, it has been shownthat no changes are needed for either the grammar orthe basic parser: the algorithm requires only aresettlement of the chart (that is, the workingmemory) and the introduction of a new selectingfunction.
Evidently, this is a great advantage in termsof clarity and modularity that is combined with theefficiency of the entire approach.For coordination it has been shown how changesthat are brought to the apparatus are modularized so asnot to fall into the intractability of other approaches.Both the algorithms have been implemented asenhancements of the WEDNESDAY 2 parser.
The parseris used in the ALFresco interactive system, amultimodal dialogue prototype for the exploration ofart history.
2The examples in this paper efer to thatprototype.
Note, however, that the solutions proposedfor ill-formed input in this paper are generally valid forother chart-based approaches.References\[Carberry, 1989\] Sandra Carberry.
A Pragmatics-BasedApproach to Ellipsis Resolution.
ComputationalLinguistics, 15(2):75-96, 1989.\[Carbonell et al, 1983\] Jaime G. Carbonell, W. MarkBoggs, Michael L. Mauldin, Peter G. Anick.XCALIBUR Project Report #1: First StepsTowards an Integrated Natural Language Interface.Technical Report CMU-CS-83-143, Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,1983.\[Carbonell and Hayes, 1983\] Jaime G. Carbonell andPhilip J. ttayes.
Recovery Strategies for ParsingExtragrammatical L nguage.
American Journal ofComputational Linguistics, 9(3-4): 123-146, 1983.\[D~I and McCord, 1983\] Veronica Dahl and MichaelC.
McCord.
Treating Coordination in LogicGrammars.
American Journal of ComputationalLinguistics, 9(2):69-91, 1983.\[Eastman and McLean, 1981\] C.M.
Eastman and D.S.McLean.
On the Need for Parsing Ill-FormedInput.
American Journal of ComputationalLinguistics, 7(4):257, 1981.\]Fong and Berwick, 1985\] Sandiway Fong and RobertC.
Berwick.
New Approaches to ParsingConjunctions Using Prolog.
In Proceedings of the23rd Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, Chicago, Illinois,1985.\[Hendrix, 1977\] Gary G. Hendrix.
HumanEngineering for Applied Natural LanguageProcessing.
In Proceedings of the FifthInternational Joint Conference on ArtificialIntelligence, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1977.\[Kaplan, 1973\] Ronald M. Kaplan.
A GeneralSyntactic Processor.
In: R. Rustin (ed).
NaturalLanguage Processing, Prentice-Hall, EnglewoodCliffs, New Jersey, 1973.\[Kaplan, 1987\] Ronald M. Kaplan.
Three Seductionsof Computational Psycholinguistics.
In: P.Whitelock et al (eds).
Linguistic Theory andComputer Applications.
Academic Press,Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey, 1987.2The ALFresco (Automatic Language-Fresco) interactivesystem has been developed in InterLisp and CommonLispon Xerox 1186 and Sun4.188 5\[Kaplan and Maxwell, 1988\] Ronald M. Kaplan andJohn T. Maxwell.
Constituent Coordination inLexical-Functional Grammar.
In Proceedings ofthe 12th International Conference onComputational Linguistics, Budapest, Hungary,1988.\[Kay, 1980\] Martin Kay.
Algorithm Schemata ndData Structures in Syntactic Processing.
TechnicalReport CSL-80, Xerox Palo Alto ResearchCenters.
Pal() Alto, California, 1980.\[Kosy, 1986\] Donald W. Kosy.
Parsing ConjnnctionsDeterministically.
In Proceedings of the 24thAnnual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, New York, NewYork, 1986.\[Kwasny trod Sondheimer, 1981\] Stan C. Kwasny andNorman K. Sondheimer.
Relaxation Techniquesfor Parsing Grammatically Ill-Formed Input inNatural Language Understanding Systems.American Journal of Computational Linguistics,7(2):99-108, 1981.\[Lesmo and Torasso, 1985\] Leonardo Lesmo andPietro Torasso.
Analysis of Conjunctions in aRule-Based Parser.
In Proceedings of the 23rdAnnual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, Chicago, Illinois,1985.\[Mellish, 198911 Chris S. Mellish.
Some Chart-BasedTechniques for Parsing Ill-Formed Input.
InProceedings ~?~ the 2 7th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,Vancouver, Brilish Columbia, 1989.\[Proudian and Goddeau, 1987\] Derek Pr,:)udian andDavid Goddeau.
Constituent Coordination inHPSG.
Technical Report CSLI-87-97.
Center forthe Stt~dy of Language and Information, Stantord,California, 1987.\[Sag et al, 1984\] Ivan A.
Sag, Gerald Gazdar, ThomasWasow and Steven Weisler.
Coordination and HowTo Distinguish Categories.
Technical ReportCSLI-84-3.
Center for the Study of Language andInformation, Stanford, California, 1984.\[Shieber, 1986\] Stuart M. Shieber.
An Introduction toUnification-Based Approaches u} Grammar.
CSLILecture Notes Series No.4, University of ChicagoPress, Chicago, Illinois, 1986.\]Stock, 1989\] Oliviero Stock.
Parsing withFlexibility, Dynamic Strategies and Idioms inMind.
Computational Linguistics, 15(1):1-18,t989.\[Weischedel and Sondheimer, 1982\] Ralph M.Weischedel and Norman K. Sondheimer.
AnImproved Heuristics for Ellipsis Processing.
InProceedings of the 20th Annual Meeting of theAssociation ,for Computational Linguistics,Toronto, Ontario, 1982.\[Weischedel and Sondheimer, 1983\] Ralph M.Weischedel and Norman K. Sondheimer.
Meta-rules as a Basis for Processing Ill-Formed input.American Journal of Computational Linguistics,9(3-4):161-177, 1983.\[Wirdn, 1989\] Mats Wir6n.
Interactive IncrementalChart Parsing.
In Proceedings of the 4thConference of the European Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,Manchester, England, 1989.\[Woods, 1973\] William A.
Woods.
An ExperimentalParsing System for Transition NetworkGrammars.
In: R. Rustin (ed).
Natural LanguageProcessing.
Prentice-Hall, Englewood Clifls, NewJersey.
1973.6 189
