Identifying Subjective Characters in NarrativeJanyce M. WiebeDepartment of  Computer ScienceUniversity of  TorontoToronto, Canada M5S IA4wiebe@ai.toronto.eduABSTRACTPart of understanding fictional narrative text isdetermining for each sentence whether it takessome character's point of view and, if it does,identifying the character whose point of view istaken.
This paper presents part of an algorithm forperfomling the latter.
When faced with a sentencethat takes a character's point of view, the readerhas to decide whether that character is a previ-ously mentioned character or one mentioned in thesentence.
We give particular consideration tosen-tences about private states, such as seeing andwanting, for which both possibilities exist.
Ouralgorithm is based on regularities in the ways thattexts initiate, continue, and resume a character'spoint of view, found during extensive xamina-tions of published novels and short stories.i.
INTRODUCTION.
Part of understandingficfiona~ narrative text is determining for each sen-tence whether it takes some character's point ofview and, if it does, identifying the characterwhose point of view is taken.
This paperaddresses the latter.
We show how structuralregularities of third-person fictional narrative textcan be exploited to perform this task.2.
BACKGROUND?
Our approach to point ofview is based on Ann Banfield's (1982) theory ofnarrative sentences.
Banfield characterizes thesentences of narration as objective or subjective.Objective sentences are those that objectively nar-rate events.
Subjective sentences are those thatpresent the consciousness of an experiencing char-acter within the story.
They express characters'evaluations, emotions, judgments, uncertainties,beliefs, and other attitudes and affects.
Kinds ofsubjective sentences include those that portray acharacter's thought or perception (representedthought or represented perception; Banfield1982), and those that report a character's privatestate such as seeing, wanting, or feeling ill---thatis, some perceptual, psychological, or experientialstate that is not open to objective observation orverification, l We call the character whose cons-ciousness i presented by such a sentence the sub-jective character of that sentence.The following passage illustrates differentkinds of subjective sentences.
(1)1"1"What are you doing in here?"
1"2Suddenly she\[Zoel was furious with him \[Joel.t.3,,Spying, of course.
"l'4"Well of all dumb things!
1"5I thought you ranaway."
l'6joe Bunch was awful.
\[Oneal, War Work, p.130\]Sentence (1.2) is a private-state r port: It reportsZoe's private state of being furious with Joe.
Sen-tence (1.6) is a represented thought: It presentsZoe's thought and it expresses her evaluation ofJoe (that he is awful).
Represented perceptionsappear in the following passage:z'~Certainly, Dennys thought, anything would be betterthan this horrible-smelling place full of horrible littlepe?p~'e2There was a brief whiff of fresh air.
2"3Al _glimpse of a night sky crusted with stars.
LL'Engle,Many Waters, p. 25\]Sentence (2.1) is Dennys's represented thoughtand (2.2) and (2.3) are Dennys's represented per-ceptions.
"l-bird-person arrative text is characterizedby shifts in point of view: a single text can haveobjective sentences as well as subjective sentencesattributed to different characters.
2 To determinethe current point of view, readers cannot considersentences in isolation.
In many cases, it is only int See Wiebe 1990 and the references therein for alternativecategorization~ of subjective sentences.2 There are different kinds of point of view in narrative.
Thekind addressed here is psychological s opposed to, for example, spa-tial or temporal (Uspensky 1973).
In addition, we do not considertexts that take the point of view of an overt narrator (Chatman 1978).1 401context hat a sentence is subjective or has a par-ticular subjective character.
Sentence (1.6) is sucha sentence.We have developed an algorithm for recog-nizing subjective sentences and identifying theirsubjective characters in third-person fictional nar-rative text.
The algorithm is based on regularities,found during our examination of passages fromover forty novels and short stories, in the waysthat texts initiate, continue, and resume acharacter's point of view.
The rules of the algo-rithm were checked, by hand, on over four hun-dred pages from seven novels.
We were able tocategorize most exceptions according to particularproblems that remain to be addressed, such as theeffect of certain spatial and temporal discontinui-ties on the psychological point of view.
Theseclasses of exceptions, together with completedescriptions of the current algorithm and itsimplementation, can be found in Wiebe 1990.
Apreliminary version of the algorithm waspresented by Wiebe & Rapaport 1988.3.
IDENTIFYING THE SUBJECTIVE CHARAC-TER.3.1.
Introduction.
Black, Turner, & Bower (1979)claim the following result of their empirical inves-tigation of point of view in narrative: "Merelymaking a character the subject of the narrativestatement sufficed to establish is as the dominantpoint of view" (p. 187).
However, their stimulusmaterials were short, artificially constructed narra-tives.
For extended texts (i.e., novels and shortstories), this simple rule is inadequate.The subjective character of a subjective sen-tenee is sometimes identifiable from the sentenceitself.
This is the case if the sentence has a narra-tive parenthetical (such as 'Dennys thought' in(2.1)); it might also be the case if the sentencedenotes a private state, but not always.
If the sub-jective character is not identifiable from the sen-tence, it is often one of two previously mentionedcharacters: the subjective character of the previ-ous subjective sentence or the actor of an actiondenoted by a previous objective sentence.
Theavailability of these characters is conditional;obviously, for example, the former is availableonly if a subjective sentence has previouslyappeared.
The subjective character also may notbe identifiable when the sentence appears.Thus, identifying the subjective characterinvolves determining whether it can be identifiedfrom the sentence itself, or, if not, determiningwhether it can be identified from the previous con-text.
In addition, as the text is processed, informa-tion that might be needed to identify later subjecotive characters must be gathered.3.2.
Identifying the Subjective Character from thePrevious Context.
A subjective character who isnot identifiable from the sentence itself (see Sec-tion 3.3, below) is most often the subjective char~acter of the last subjective sentence.
In this case,the current sentence continues a character's pointof view (if the previous entence was also subjec-tive) or resumes one (if objective sentence.s haveappeared since the last subjective sentence).
Sen-tences (2.2) and (2.3) illustrate the former, andsentence (1.6) illustrates the latter; it has the samesubjective character as (1.2), the last subjectivesentence, and is separated from (1.2) by objectivesentences ( 1.3)--(1.5).Less commonly, the subjective character isthe actor of an action denoted by a previous objec-tive sentence.
Since this character need not be thesubjective character of the last subjective sen-tence, this is a way to initiate a new point of view.Following is an example: 3(3)3"IJake felt sour.
3"2He wished again that cir-cumstances hadn't prompted him to come back.
3"3Hehad already spent one full night on horseback, 3"4andnow the boys were expecting him to spend another, allon account of a bunch of livestock he had no interest inin the first place.3"5"I don't know as I'm coming," he said.
3"6"Ijust got here.
3"7If I'd known you boys did nothing butchase horses around all night, I don't know that I wouldhave come.
"3's"Why, Jake,3.Yl~U lazy bean," Augustus said,3"9and walked off.
?
'Jake had a stubborn streak inhim, 311and once it was activated even Call could sel-dom do much with him.
\[McMurtry, Lonesome Dove,p.
162\]As this passage appears in the novel, (3.10) and(3.1 I) represent the point of view of Augustus, the3 Numbering within passages reflects the actual units of inputgiven to the algorithm, which are not always sentences.
E.g., the con-juects of compound sentences are separate input units.
Even so, aninput unit can still have multiple clauses, each of which denotes anevent.
The algorithm uses heuristics to choose the most important ofthese for tracking point of view (most often, it chooses the eventdenoted by the main clause).
Thus, when we refer to a sentence thatdenotes an action, for example, we actually mean an input unit ofwhich the event chosen for consideration is an action.2 402actor of an action denoted by a previous objectivesentence, (3.9).
But the last subjective character is~lake, so Augustus's point of view is initiated, notmerely resumed or continued.In order to identify the subjective characterin these situations, the algorithm keeps track ofexpected subjective characters, characters who arelikely to become the subjective character.
Often,the last subjective character is one of these.
How-ever, drastic spatial and temporal discontinuitiescan block: the continuation or resumption of acharacter's psychological point of view.
We con-sider one kind of discontinuity, a scene break,which is a break from one parallel story-line toanother (Almeida 1987).
Thus, the last subjectivecharacter :is an expected subjective character onlyif a subjective sentence has appeared in the currentscene (see Wiebe 1990 for examples).
4The usual situation for a shift in point ofview to an actor is one in which the action of aprevious subjective character is focused by thetext---specifically, when the objective sentencedenoting the action appeared earlier in the currentparagraph and the entire paragraph so far has beenobjective.
"5In these situations, the actor of the lastsuch senl~ence, the last active character, is an~'.xpected subjective character.If the subjective character is not identifiablefrom the sentence~ then the algorithm chooses anexpected subjective character, if them is one.
Ifthere isn't one, then the algorithm cannot identifythe subjective character at this point in the text(see Wiebe & Rapaport 1988 and Wiebe 1990 for~;xamples i~x which the reader must read further inthe text in order to identify the subjective charac?ter).
In the case of competition between expectedsubjective ctmracters, the last active character isthe prefenred choice, since he or she is morehighly focused by the text than the last subjectivecharacter as.
The last subjective character ischosen only if the sentence is about the last activecharacter.
6 The choice of the last subjective char-acter is incorrect if the sentence is the last activecharacter's self-reflection or self-perception; thisn The algorithm cannot detect scene breaks; rather, it nmst beinformed when one occurs.5 In addition, the action must be one that is actually performedhi the current scene; thus, the main verb phrase of the sentence denot-h~g it must pass certain linguistic tests, for example, that it not con-~ain a habitual adverbial such as 'usually' or a modal adverbial suchas 'probably'.That is, if the last active character is the actor or experieneerof the event chosen for consideration.heuristic relies on the relative infrequency of sub-jective sentences about oneself.3.3.
Identifying the Subjective Character from theSentence.
Most commonly in third-person arra~tire text, subjective sentences continue or resumecharacters' points of view, rather than initiate newones.
The previous section discussed one way,illustrated by passage (3), to initiate a new pointof view.
In situations like those, the subjectivecharacter is determined from the previous context.A subjective sentence is also able to initiate a newpoint of view if the subjective character isidentifiable from the sentence itself.
A simpleexample is a sentence with a narrative parentheti-cal, such as (2.1)--the subjective character isalways the subject of the parenthetical.The subjective character may also beidentifiable from a sentence denoting a privatestate (a private-state sentence); in particular, itmay be the experiencer of the private statedenoted.
Thus, as noted by Dole~el 1973, Cohn1978, and Banfield 1982, a private-state sentenceis another way to initiate a new point of view.
7 Anexample occurs in the following:(4)4"l"Drown me?"
Augustus aid.
4"2"Why if' any-body had tried it, those girls would have clawed themto shreds."
4"3He knew Call was mad, 4"4but wasn'tmuch inclined to humor him.
4"5It was his dinner tableas much as Call's, 4"6and if Call didn't like the conver-sation he could go to bed.47 48 ?
Call knew there was no point in arguing.
?
Thatwas what Augustus wanted: argument.
"9~Ie didn treally care what the question was, 4"l?and it made nogreat difference to him which side he was on.
n'llHejust plain loved to argue.
\[McMurtry, Lonesome Dove,p.
16\]Sentences (4.3)-(4.6) are Augustus's ubjectivesentences and (4.7)-(4.11) are Call's.
So, (4.7)initiates a new point of view.
It is a private-statesentence and the subjective character, Call, is theexperiencer of the plivate state denoted.
Passage(4) shows, however, that the subjective characterof a private-state sentence need not be theexperiencer.
In (4.6), for example, "Call didn'tlike the conversation" denotes a plivate state (lik?ing), but the subjective character of the sentence is7 If a subjective sentence denotes aprivate-state action such assighing or looking, the subjective character might also be identifiablefrom the sentence itself.
See Wiebe 1990 for the algorithm's treat-ment of these kinds of sentences.3 403Augustus, not Call.
In the following subsections,we will consider factors that can indicate that thesubjective character of a private-state sentence isnot the experiencer.3.3.1.
Textual Continuity.
Point of view does nottypically shift from one character to anotherwithout a paragraph break.
8 Thus, the lack of aparagraph break suggests that a shift has notoccurred.
In the case of a private-state sentencefollowing a subjective sentence, where theexperiencer is different from the last subjectivecharacter, the lack of a paragraph break betweenthem suggests that the private-state sentence is notthe experiencer's subjective sentence; if it were,then a shift would have occurred without a para-graph break.
So, when a private-state sentenceimmediately follows a subjective sentence withouta paragraph break (this is called the continuing?subjective text situation), the algorithm identifiesthe subjective character to be the last subjectivecharacter, not the experiencer of the private state.
93.3.2, Subjective Elements.
Another factor thatsuggests that a private-state sentence should beattributed to an expected subjective characterrather than to the experieneer is the appearance ofa subjective lement.There are many linguistic elements (syntac-tic, lexical, and morphological) that can indicatethat a sentence is subjective.
Examples areevaluative terms such as 'the old bag' (Banfield1982), and evidentials such as 'evidently' and'apparently' (Dole~el 1973).
Although some ofthese elements always indicate that a sentence issubjective, others only potentially do so.
A sub-jective element is a linguistic element that actuallyindicates that a sentence is subjective in the con-text of use.
10Before we address the effect of subjectiveelements on identifying the subjective character ofa private-state sentence, we need to considerinterpretations of private-state sentences.
Theres This observation is predicted by Nakhimovsky's work on thediscourse structure of narrative text, in which it is suggested thatparagraph breaks accompany discontinuities (Nakhimovsky & Rapa-port 1988; Naldaimovsky 1988).9 Actually, the algorithm allows for a broadening or narrowingof point of view upon a private-state s ntence.
This can occur be-cause, as shown by Banfield 1982, a subjective sentence can be attri-buted to a set of characters.10 We borrow this term from Bantield 1982, but redefine it;Banfield uses it to refer to linguistic elements that always indicatethat a sentence is subjective.are two subjective interpretations of private-statesentences: represented thoughts and private-statereports.
11 Interpreted to be a represented thought,a private-state sentence is someone's thoughtabout a character's private state.
For example,(4.6) is Augustus's represented thought that isabout Call's private state (Call's not liking some-thing).
A private-state sentence that is interpretedto be a private-state r port, on the other hand, is areport of a character's private state; it is notsomeone's thought about it.
Examples are (4.3)and (4.7).
12The subjective character of a private-statereport is always the experiencer.
Thus, the sub-jective character is identifiable from the sentenceitself.
On the other hand, the subjective characterof a represented thought cannot be identified fromthe sentence itself, but depends on the context(unless, of course, a narrative parentheticalappears).
This is so regardless of whether the sub-jective character is referred to in the sentence.
Forexample, the subjective character of the followingrepresented thought is the referent of 'she' (as thesentence appears in the short story):Why couldn't she?
\[Mansfield, "The Garden Party"\]but the subjective character of the folk)wing (asthe sentence appears in the short sto~y) is notreferred to in the sentence:What nice eyes he had, small, but such a dark blue!\[Mansfield, "The Garden Party"\]Thus, if something indicates that a private-statesentence is a represented thought rather than aprivate-state report, then the subjective charactershould be identified to be an expected subjectivecharacter (as discussed in Section 3.2).Subjective lements do this, as in tile follow-ing passage; at the start of the passage, Sandy andDennys are (collectively) the last subjective char-acter: "13n There is also an objective interpretation (see Wiebe 1990).tz Cohn 1978 does not acknowledge this ambiguity: She saysthat represented thought can be distinguished from plivate-state r -ports by "the absence of mental verbs" in the former (p. 104).13 According to the rules of the algorithm, the event of (5.1)chosen for consideration is the private state denoted by the subordi-mated clause.404 4(5)5'l Japheth, evidently realizing that they were nolonger behind him, turned around 5'2and jogged backtoward them, seemingly cool and unwinded.
\[L'Engle,Many Waters, p. 24\]"l~he subjective lement 'evidently' in (5.1) indi-cates that the sentence is not a private-state r port.That is, (5.1) is not a report that Japheth realizesthat they are no longer behind him.
Instead,Sandy and Dennys (the subjective character)ascribe this private state to him.However, subordinated subjective lements,those within the scope of the private-state t rm,can appear in private-state repor ts .
14 Thus, theycannot 'be used to distinguish private-state r portsfrom represented thoughts (and so cannot be usedto identify the subjective character).
For example: 61 )Ugh!
she \[the girl\] thoughL 6"2How could the poorthinghave married him in the first place?~'3johnnic Martin could not believe that he wasseeing that old bag's black eyes sparkling with disgustand unsheathed contempt at him.
\[CaldweU, No OneHears But Him, pp.
98-99\]Sentence (6.3) is a private-state r port and the sub-jective ,character is the experiencer (Johnnie Mar-tin); this is so even though (6.3) contains the sub~jeetive element 'old bag' and even though there isan expected subjective character (the girl) when itis encountered.
Because 'old bag' appears withinthe scope of the private-state rm 'believe', it isnot considered in identifying the subjective char?acter.
On the other hand, the subjective clement'evidently ' in (5.1) is not in the scope of 'realiz-ing' (i.e., it is non-subordinated), so it can be usedto identify the subjective character.If a private-state sentence does not have anon-subordinated subjective lement and does notappear in the continuing-subjective situation, thenthe algorithm identifies the expected subjectivecharacmr to be the experiencer.4.
SUMMARY.
Following is the rule of the algo-rithm for identifying the subjective character of asubjective sentence ('SC' stands for the subjectivecharacter of the current sentence): 1514 qhis is one reason why we define private-state r ports to besubjective.15 Provisions for the following have been omitted for brevity:broadening and narrowing of point of view, sentences denotingprivate-state actions, and private-state s ntences that can be objectiveTo identify SC:If the sentence contains a narrative parenthetical thenSC is the subject of the parentheticalelse if the sentence is a private-state s ntence thenif it has a non-subordinated subjective clementor the text situation is continuing-subjective h nSC is identified from the previous contextelse SC is the experiencerend ifelse SC is identified from the previous contextend ifTo identify SC from the previous context:If there are two expected subjective characters thenif the sentence is about he last active character thenSC is the last subjective characterelse SC is the last active characterend ifelse if there is an expected subjective character thenSC is the expected subjective characterelse SC is unidentifiedend if5.
CONCLUSION.
We am extending this workalong two avenues.
First, we are developingpsychological experiments to test whether theregularities on which the algorithm is basedinfluence the reader's recognition of subjectivesentences and identification of subjective charac-ters.
Second, we are extending the algorithm tomake connections with work on focus of attentionand discom'se structure (such as Grosz & Sidner1986); in particular, we are investigating howresolving anaphora nd tracking the current pointof view are related (Stark 1987, Hewitt 1988).
Animportant direction for future research is reason-ing about the plausibility of a suggested interpre-tation, that is, whether it is plausible that the con?tent of a subjective sentence is a particularcharacter's thought or perception.We lmve presented part of an algorithm foridentifying subjective characters that is based onregularities in the ways that texts initiate, resume,and continue a character's point of view.
Whenfaced with a subjective sentence, the reader has todecide whether the subjective character can beidentified from the sentence itself.
It can be if thesentence is a private-state r port, but not if it is arepresented thought; we give rules for distinguish-ing between these two interpretations of private-state sentences that involve the textual situationand the appearance of subjective lements in thesentence.
A subjective character who is not(see Wiebe 1990).5 405identifiable from the sentence itself is often one oftwo previously-mentioned characters; we identifythose characters and specify when one of themshould be chosen to be the subjective character.Our findings are based on extensive xaminationsof natural narrative.Acknowledgments.
I wish to thank the membersof the SUNY Buffalo Graduate Group in Cogni-tive Science and the SNePS Research Group formany discussions and ideas, and William Rapa-port, Graeme Hirst, and Diane Horton for helpfulcomments on earlier drafts of this paper.REFERENCESAlmeida, M. J.
(1987), Reasoning about he Tem-poral Structure of Narratives, Ph.D. dissertation,published as Technical Report 87-10 (Buffalo:SUNY Buffalo Department ofComputer Science).Banfield, A.
(1982), Unspeakable Sentences:Narration and Representation in the Language ofFiction (Boston: Routledge & Kegan Paul).Black, J.
B.; Turner, T. J.; & Bower, G. H. (1979),"Point of View in Narrative Comprehension,Memory, and Production," Journal of VerbalLearning and Verbal Behavior 18: 187-198.Caldwell, Taylor (1966), No One Hears But Him(Garden City, NY: Doubleday).Chatrnan, Seymour (1978), Story and Discourse:Narrative Structure in Fiction and Film (Ithaca,NY: Cornell University Press).Cohn, D. (1978), Transparent Minds: NarrativeModes for Representing Consciousness in Fiction(Princeton: Princeton University Press).Dole~el, L. (1973), Narrative Modes in CzechLiterature (Toronto: University of TorontoPress).Grosz, B. J.
& Sidner, C. L. (1986), "Attention,Intentions, and the Structure of Discourse," Com-putational Linguistics, 12: 175-204.Hewitt, L. (1988), "Reduced Anaphor in Subjec-tive Contexts," unpublished manuscript, SUNYBuffalo Graduate Group in Cognitive Science.L'Engle, M. (1986), Many Waters (New York,Dell Publishing).McMurtry, L. (1985), Lonesome Dove (New York:Simon & Schuster).Nakhimovsky, A.
(1988), "Aspect, AspectualClass, and the Temporal Structure of Narrative,"Computational Linguistics 14 (2): 29-43.Nakhimovsky, A.
& Rapaport, W. J.
(1988),"Discontinuities in Narratives," Proceedings ofthe 12th International Conference on Computa-tional Linguistics (COLING-88, Budapest)(Morristown, NJ: Assoc.
for ComputationalLinguistics): 465-470.Oneal, Z.
(1971), War Work (New York: VikingPress).Stark, H. A.
(1987), "Keeping Track of Charac-ters in Narrative," Ph.D. dissertation, Dept.
ofComputer Science, Stanford University.Uspensky, B.
(1973), A Poetics of Composition(Berkeley: University of California Press).Wiebe, J. M., & Rapaport, W. J.
(1988), "A Com-putational Theory of Perspective and Reference inNarrative," Proceedings of the 26th Annual Meet-ing of the Assoc.
for Computational Linguistics(ACL-88; SUNY at Buffalo) (Morristown, NJ:Assoc.
for Computational Linguistics): 131-138.Wiebe, J. M. (1990), Recognizing Subjective Sen-tences: A Computational Investigation of Narra-tive Text, Ph.D. dissertation, published as a techni-cal report (Buffalo: SUNY Buffalo Dept.
of Com-puter Science).406 6
