GENERATING REFERRING EXPRESS IONSUS ING MULT IPLE  KNOWLEDGE SOURCESRussell BlockUniversitfit HamburgZentrales Fremdsprachen-lnstitutVon-Melle-Park 52000 Hamburg 13E.R.G.Helmut HoracekUniversifftt BielefeldFakultfit fiir Linguistikund LiteraturwissenschaftPostfach 86404800 Bielefeld 1F.R.G.AbstractIn this paper we present abrief look at some ofthe knowledge-based processes used in gener-atii~g referring expressions in the naturallanguage advisory system WlSBER.
AlthoughWISBER is fully capable of exploiting syntacticinformation to generate contextually appropriatereferences, the work described here concen-trates on the use of conceptual nd contingentknowledge about objects in the domain ofdiscourse to generate natural-sounding refer-ences.
A short description of the knowledgesources available is followed by examples of theprocesses that transform "deep structures"encodimg system intentions into verbalizableform.
Finally, we discuss a number of pro-blems of specifier selection and their solutionwithin a knowledge-based framework.1.
IntroductionCompetent handling of referring expressions ian important prerequisite for skillful naturallanguage (NL) processing.
Not surprisingly,considerable ffort has been invested inresolving references, but comparably littleattention has been paid to the generation ofreferring expressions as yet.
Moreover, appro-aches in generation have concentrated mainlyon syntactic problems and pronominalizationissues.Our contribution, however, lies in puttingsignificantly more emphasis on semantic andpragmatic aspects, and in generating (ordinary)anaphoric noun phrases in addition topronouns.
We achieve this by updating andexploiting the content of the knowledge sourcesof the advisory system WISBER \[12\], whichour generator is part of.
WISBER is a fullyimplemented German NL system cow.~fing thewhole spectrum of NL processing.
Its domainofapplication is financial investment.An outline of the knowledge sources and thecoordination of the associated processes hasbeen given in \[6\].
In this paper we will concen-trate on the motivation of criteria for choices ingeneration and on the presentation f'some (inpart) tricky types of reference generation whichour system is able to master.
To start with, wewill characterize the knowledge sources in oursystem and then describe the subprocesses inthe generation module involved in the creationof referring expressions.2.
Knowledge sources involvedConceptual knowledge is expressed in a T-Box\[4\] containing structured terminological knowl-edge about the world, and by an A-Box \[19\],which contains assertions about entities referredto in the dialog (both are in the tradition ofhybrid KL-ONE based knowledge represen-tation systems \[7\]).
The partner model I20\], forinstance, is realized as a particular context in theA-Box (which contains the belief.,; of thesystem about he propositional ttitudes of theuser).
Additionally, dialog specific (heuristic)knowledge is expressed in terms of derivationalrules for inferring additional propositionalattitudes of the agents involved \[ 10\].
All thesecomponents share the same ontology which isobject-oriented and particularly well-suited forrepresenting conceptual knowledge and formaking inferences.
Consequently, there aresignificant structural differences in comparisonto lexically-based representations.
The prin-24 1ciples on which the design of the ontology isbased are outlined in \[ 1410The bridge between the conceptual and thelexical levels is established by a %emantic"lexicon \[13\], which contains entries for eachword meaning (and for grammatical functions)which comprise the conceptual entity primarilyaddressed, a schema type which indicates howthe associated conceptual structure has to bebuilt and a few parameters which constrain thelexical and the conceptual environments.
Aswith the syntactic-semantic lexicon used in thesystem VIE-LANG \[21\], the entries can beinteipreted bidirectionally and the resulting par?tial structures are composable.
The major dif-ference, however, lies in the concentration o  alimited set of schema types in our approach.Additionally, an elaborate feature system \[5\]has been developed, composed of grammaticaland semantic features for defining objects.
Thedialog memory \[5\] contains objects defined bythese tbatures, thus providing a link betweenobjects tYom the world of discourse (the SEMS)and the natural anguage xpressions (names)used to refer to these objects (the REFOs).
Quitenaturally, one SEM may be expressed byseveral REFOs in the course of the conver~sation, but we will see that things may occa-sionally be more complicated.3.
Associated processesWe restrict our presentation of the generationprocess to the phases tarting with an (initial)representation f the utterance to be produced(expressed in IRS (Interne Repr~sentations-Sprachc) \[3\], WlSBER's dedicated languagefor expressing utterances on the semantic-pragmatic level) up to a level comparable tofunctional descriptions (which is called IRS-F\[5\]).
The processes involved are transformationof IRS-expressions on a purely terminologicallevel (by the component called FfRANSLATE\[2\]), the selection of appropriate descriptionsfor entities (which works similarly to the NP-generation component in HAM-ANS \[ 17\]) andthe transformation from the conceptual level tothe lexical evel (by the verbalization componentalso referred to in \[13\]).FTRANSLATE makes it possible to replaceappearances of a special concept by a nmregeneral one (augmented by additional descrip-tions to maintain terminological equivalence).In addition, a role associated with complexmeaning can be re-expressed by a constructconsisting of other roles and associatedconcepts.
The terminological equivalence isdefined by means of a structural description, anelement in the T-Box language.
Hence, entirelynew elements might be included in the specifi-cation of an utterance generated this way.In the NP-generation component, he descrip-tions of (semantic) objects are expanded withadditional properties o that the extendeddescriptions are uniquely identifiable (canclearly be distinguished from other objectsfound in file dialog memory with which theycould potentially be confused if the objectswere considered out of context, \[6\]).
As in \[ 17,18\] the observations that people have prefer-ences when using properties to characterizeobjects are taken into account (e.g., they prefercolor over size over age).
Notice that, incontrast to the other approaches, these descrip~tions are not necessarily reflected entirely in thecorresponding surface form in our system.
It isup to the verbMization process 1:o select anadequate realization (e.g., a paraphrase), takingthe overall dialog context into account.
Thisretbrs, in particular, to pronominalization deci-sions.
Hence, our NP-generation componentalways produces a description consisting of aclass name and a set of uniquely identifyingproperties.The transition between the conceptual and thelexical levels, which we have tenned verbali-zation, is described by a small set of schematawhich selve to bridge differences in granularity(ZOOM schemata) and in the degree of expli-citness (SUBSTITUTE schemata).
Hence, thistransition may involve considerable restrucoturing.
In particular, partial mappings ofconceptual structures may be collapsed on thelexical evel (one of them may be substituted tbranother).
Moreover, some parts of the (full)specification may be left unverbalized becausethe overall context indicates that the reducedmessage is comprehensible without any loss ofinformation (i.e., the superfluous parts can beassumed to be contextually recoverable).
Theextra effort involved in creating theseexpansions in the NP-generation component isnecessary to keep the flow of control betweenthe processes imple (in fact they are sequen-tially ordered).The verbalization process and the application ofFTRANSLATE for generation purposes are theessentially new components in our generator.They are described in detail in \[ 15 \]?4.
P rob lem areasIn this section we will outline progress made onthe selection of determiners (especially prag-matic anaphora) and the generation of para-phrases.2 2s4.1 Select ion of  determinersThe suitability of determiners for appropriatelyexpressing the role of an NP in a given constel-lation has not been treated very extensively.One of the few approaches i this direction is\[9\].
The aim there is mainly to produce unambi-guous sentences in cases where scoping plays acrucial role.
For instance, the choice between"each" and "all" ('a" and "the same') is particu-larly stressed in the determiner selection toachieve scope expression reinforcement.
We,however, focus on the choice of specifity andon the creation of fluent, possibly locally ambi-guous sentences which can be interpreted in thecontext of a complete dialog.In straig\]htforward pproaches, the number andthe specifier features of NPs are direct deri-vations of the cardinality of the associatedobjects and of the fact that they have beenmentioned earlier in the discourse.
However,there are many instances which deviate fromthis standard pattern.
As for the determinationof the number feature, there is plenty ofevidence that, apart from the cardinality of thereferred object, scoping of the complete utter-ance plays a significant role.
Hence, there arecases where a set of objects can be referred toby an NP in either singular or plural, dependingon actual scoping.In IRS-formula (1) E-EV is a quantifier forevents (the buying event z) and the quantifier E-encodes the cardinality (of bond y) and the factthat y has not been mentioned earlier in thedialog.
The term "IBM" constitutes a simplifi-cation (it denotes the organization named "IBM"and is treated as a constant here) and the time-intervals associated with states and events(which are the source for the determination oftense features) are omitted here.
From formula(1) our verbalization component is able togenerate, among some other possibilities,structures corresponding to the clauses (2) and(3), which are unconnected atthis point.
(1) ((3 x (MAN x))((E- y (BOND y))(AND (HAS-ISSUER y "IBM')((E-EV z (BUYING z))(AND (HAS-AGENT z x)(HAS-THEME z y))))))(2) Three men bought a bond.
(3) IBM has issued bonds.When putting the clauses together, the first oneis chosen to precede the second one on thesurface level because "man" has the widestscope (this criterion may be overruled by focusconstraints).
As for the choice of determiners,only those for the "bonds" are of real interest (inboth clauses).
In clause (2), the "bonds" arewithin the scope of the men'.
Hence, it isfeasible to use either singular (corresponding tothe quantifier) or plural (corresponding to thecardinality, which is derivable from the formulaor, even simpler, can be obtained by a look-upin the A-Box).
In actual conversation it seemsmore natural to use singular, perhaps becausethe singular form is less ambiguous than theplural.
The plural variant is also vague withrespect to the number of bonds the men bought(each or together).
In our system, we select hesingular variant unconditionally although averification of the degree of precision might beachieved, for instance, by means of an antici-pation feed-back loop which is used in HAM-ANS \[ 17\] for similar purposes.As the resulting sentence, if considered withoutcontext, still has multiple readings, a disambi-guating "each" (or "together" for reversed scop-ing) could be inserted.
But, because we aredealing with a dialog system we prefer the morenatural though locally ambiguous wording andtrust the overall context without completelychecking it.
A comparable strategy is used bythe analysis component: the ambiguity of anutterance is tolerated without asking for clari-fication as long as ordinary processing cancontinue despite the lack of precise information.In clause (3), however, scoping of the "bonds"is different (the "men" are not present) whichalters the choice entirely: the number fbaturemust reflect he cardinality of the "bonds" here.A more-or-less traightforward pronominali-zation and a passive transformation triggered byfocus constraints lead to the sentences (4a) and(4b).
Our speculation on contextual help hasbeen immediately rewarded in this case: thesecond sentence provides the appropriate con-text for a unique interpretation f the first one.
(4a) Three men bought _a bond.
(4b) ~ were issued by IBM.By means of the components NORMALIZEand NORMALIZE- 1 \[ 16\] HAM-ANS is able tohandle sentence where scope reorderingbetween the surface form and the underlyinglogic formula is involved.
This includes alsosentences like (4a) and (4b), but they can betreated only separately.
In our approach theconceptual content can be expressed in a singleformula and the verbalization procedure canselect among possible surface expressions in aflexible way.26 3Formula (\]l) is also a good example for caseswhere dominance between NPs cannot bep~:operly expressed in a single sentence (\[9\]giives criteria to detect such situations).
Becauseof the different number features of the "bonds"irl sentences (4a) and (4b) our generator prefersto produce two separate sentences instead ofembedding the second one starting with "eacho;I ?
which ...'.,4,,,~ for the choice of specifity, the simple appro-ach mentioned earlier seems to work (partially)for objects in and of themselves.
If, however,fimctional relations are involved, the unique-n,:;ss of the relation seems to play a similar role.This consideration refers to terminologicallyc;aused uniqueness as in phrase (5) (which is&.
'rivable from the associated number restrictiond~',:fined in the T-Box - a bride can only haveo~e father) and to uniqueness on the level ofinstances as in phrases (6) or (7).
(5) the father of the bride(6) th__ee brother of the bride(if she has only one)('/) a_a_ brother of the bride(if she has several brothers)In cases like (7), knowledge of the speaker andnot of the hearer is the decisive (and sufficient)fitctor.
The bearer's knowledge can be augmen-ted by the speaker's choice of determiner.
AoE;ox knowledge is perfectly adequate here, butsome care is necessary.
Therefore, conceptsa~d roles are annotated with recta-predicatesINCONSISTENT, COMPLETE, INCOMPLETE, andUNKNOWABLE (as described in \[1\]) to avoidpresupposition failures if the heare(s knowl-edge is more accurate than the speaker's.Additional care is advisable if measuremenul areinvolved.
According to regularities we haveobserved, an NP expressing a relation referringto a measurement requires the head NP to bearspecifier feature INDEF even though the relationis unique whereas an NP expressing the samerelation requires pecifier feature DEF whenjoined with the object bearing it (compare phra-ses (8) and (9), to illustrate the difference).
(It) The investment has a term of five years.
(9) The term of the investment amounts tofive years.Tiros, the T-box knowledge that an investmentcan have only one term is not sufficient.
But,thanks to our detailed ontology, we can clearlyrecognize when a noun has been derived from arelation (all of which are represented byroles).4.2 Pragmat ic  anaphoraIn addition, our ontology helps us to determinemore clearly the focus of attention, which isresponsible for the validity of pragmaticanaphoric refeiences.
When an eventuality ismentioned in the dialog, all persons and objectsinvolved (the fillers of the deep case roles) aswell as their measurable properties are added tothe focus of attention.
Hence, sentence (11)(10) I want to invest my money.
( 1 I) What term should th___ee investment have?easily follows sentence (10) in a conversation,even though the "investment" i self has not beenpreviously mentioned.
Moreover, the choice ofthe mood is remarkable in the previous enten-ce.
In this case it is triggered by the (task-spe-cific) assumption that the associated (consul-ration) object is a priori not identified.
Thisassumption is maintained until an identifiablefeature (e.g., the issuing number) is establishedfor this object.In the dialog control component \[ 10\] we have,among other things, incorporated inferencesabout simple state transitions to obtain, forinstance, evidence about the effect of events.Thus, when the occurrence of an event is men-tioned (e.g., as in sentence (12)),(12) Ich habe Geld geerbt.I have inherited money.the consequence of this event is also referrablein the subsequent conversation.
Thus, thepossession of the money resulting from theinheritance might be referred to as "der Besitz"(the possession) in a subsequent system utter-ance.
We are not sure how far we can go in thisdirection, but we believe that, to the extent hatthe inferential knowledge of the system isshared by the dialog partner, the creation of apragmatic anapher is justified in such cases.4.3 Generat ing  paraphrasesOne of the few approaches in this direction isthe system EPICURE \[8\] which focuses on thegeneration of expressions which refer to objectswhose quantities and shapes are crucial andmay be subject o quick changes, integratingknowledge about he discourse structure as well(which we did not do in our system) toconstrain the set of potential discourse refer-ents.
For instance, EPICURE is able to refer toa discourse ntity at different stages of its exist-ence in a single sentence to describe a shapechange which the object referred to undergoes,like in "Cut the onion into pieces.
"4 27Our emphasis lies on exploiting properties ofobjects as well as inferential knowledge tocreate xpressions referring to objects in moreind~trect ways.
An earlier approach, which ismore comparable toours, was taken in the VIE-LASNG system \[11\].
Paraphrases are createdprimarily on the conceptual level, leaving thedecision of whether or not to use one of them tosubsequent processing.
In that approach a para-phrase can refer to an entity by a superclass, bya role pertaining to the entity, or simply by areduced form of a description previously used.Our method is more flexible distributing theburdon of actually creating a paraphrase bet-ween FTRANSLATE, the NP-generation, andthe verbalization component so that the deci-sions involved can be made at the most appro-priate stage.There is a rich variety for creating paraphrasesin WISBER, where each of the subprocessesinvolved plays a particular ole.
This can bedemonstrated by sentence (13) which resultsfrom a context substitution of the primarycontent specification (the state referred to byIRS-expression (14)) followed by substantialmodifications in the course of the subsequentgeneration process.
(13) M6chten Sie wiihrend er Laufzeit aufden Betrag zur/ickgreifen k6mlen?Do you wish to have access to the sum\[invested\] uring the term of  the investment?
(14) (LAMBDA (x)((DS x (INVESTMENT x))(HAS-LIQUIDITY x HIGH)))After substituting IRS-expression (14) into theuser's WANT-context the result can be para-phrased by "Should the liquidity of the invest-ment be high?"
The production of sentence (13)has been described in detail elsewhere \[ 12\].
Inthis context, we will concentrate on themotivation for the paraphrase "der Betrag" (theamount) for the " object.
Originally, only the"INVESTMENT" predicate is specified in theconceptual structure (14).
This is also the caseafter the terminological transformation alters therole "HAS-LIQUIDITY" into a complexexpression signifying the "possibility of havingaccess to the money'.
During NP-generation,the description of the "investment" is expandedto ~nclude a disambiguating quantity of moneybecause the investment otherwise might beconfused with an object mentioned earlier in thedialog.
In the subsequent verbalization process,the mappings of the "investment" and the "quan-tity of money" expressing its value collapse intoa structure corresponding to the NP "der Be-trag', once again creating ambiguity.
Again, alocally arising ambiguity is tolerated if it isresolvable inthe dialog context.Additionally the SUBSTITUTE schemata in ourverbalization component provide us with meansto immediately "relate an NP containing ameasurement (e.g., 40,000 DM) to two SEMs(the object quantified by the measurement andthe measurement itself).
Consequently, there isnot a 1 :n relation between SEMs and REFOs (asmight be assumed intuitively), but ralher an m:nrelation.
Hence, there is no problem in gener-ating either of the sentences (16) or (17) as thesuccessor utterance of sentence (15).
(15)(16)(17)I have inherited 40,000DM.That's a lot ofmone?.That's is a round number.The same mechanism generally can be appliedto a property whose description can be substi-tuted for the object it belongs to like, for in~stance, the name of a person.5.
ConclusionIn this paper, we have briefly considered someaspects of a knowledge-based approach togenerating referring expressions in a naturallanguage advisory system.
This approachcombines conceptually (rather than lexically)based knowledge representation, semantic andpragmatic processes and syntactic informationto provide a multipronged "human-Hke" attackon the problem of reference generation.
Al-though constraints on time and resourceslimited the scope and coverage of our work, wewere able to establish a base from which wehope to expand in future projects.
Both oursuccesses and the many unsolved problems weencountered in the course of our work lead usto the ineluctible conclusion that few of the pro.-blems of reference generation are likely to besolved unless all of the available resources of adialog system are mobilized from the outset.AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank all our colleagues intheWlSBER project for their contribution i  thedesign and implementation f the system andfor fruitful discussions in all phases of ourwork.
In particular we indebted to HenningBergmann, who designed and implementedFTRANSLATE, and to Heinz Marburger, whocontributed the component dedicated to thegeneration ofconceptual descriptiorLs.28 5References\[lO\]\[11\]\[121\[1\] H. Bergmann, M. Gerlach: Semantisch-pragmatische Verarbeitung von f~uBerun-gen im natiidich-sprachlichen Beratungs-system WISBER, in Wissensbasierte_Systeme - G!,KongreB 1987, W. Brauer,W.
Wahlster (eds.
), pp.
318-327, Sprin-ger (publ.
), Berlin, 1987.
Also in WIS-B_ER-Report Nr.
15, University of Ham-burg, 1987.\[2\] HI.
Bergmann: Short Description ofFTRANSLATE.
WISBER Memo Nr.3_0, University of Hamburg, 1987.\[3\] H. Bergmann, M. Fliegner, M. Gerlach,H.
Marburger, M. Poesio: IRS -  TheInternal Representation Language.WISBER Report Nr.
14, University ofHamburg, 1987.\[4\] Ill. Bergmann, M. Gerlach: QUIRK -hl~plementiemng einer TBox zur ReprS-sentation begriftlichen Wissens.
WISpBER Memo Nr.
11, second augmentededition, University of Hamburg, 1987.\[5\] R. Block: Papers on ReFerence andKnowledge Representation, WI SB ERRee~port Nr.
20, University of Hamburg,1987.\[6\] R. Block: Generating referential Expres-sions.
WISBER Report Nr.
46, Univer-sity of Hamburg, 1989.\[7\] R. Brachman, J. Schmolze: An Overviewof  the KL-ONE knowledge r presentationsystem.
Cognitive Science9(2)~ pp.
171 ..216, 1985.\[8\] R. Dale: Generating ReFerring Expres-sions in a Domain of  Objects and Proces-ses.
P__hD Thesis, Centre for CognitiveScience, University of Edinburgh, 1989.\[9\] P..~J.
Gailly: Expressing quantifier scopein French generation.
In Proc.
COLING-8~, Budapest, 1988.M.
Gerlach, H. Horacek: Dialog Controlit, f a Natural Language System.
In Proc.EACL-89, Somers H., McGee M.
('eds.
),Manchester, 1989.H.
Horacek, E. Buchberger: AchievingText Coherence in a Generator forGerman Texts.
In C__ybernefics and_Systems'86, R. Trappl (ed.
), pp.
831-836, Reidel (publ.
), 1986.H.
Horacek et al: From Meaning toMeaning - A Walk Through WISBER "sSemantic-Pragmatic Processing.
I n\[131\[14\]\[15\]\[16\]\[17\]\[18\]\[19\]\[20\]\[21\]GWAI-88, Geseke, W. Hoeppner (ed.),pp.
118-129, Springer (publ.
), Berlin,1988.
Also in WISBER Report Nr.
30,University of Hamburg, 1988.tt.
Horacek, C. Pyka: lbwards BridgingTwo Levels of  Representation Linkingthe Syntactic Functional and Object-Oriented Paradigms.
In InternationalComputer Science Conference "88-Artificial Intel!igence: Theory andApplications, Hong Kong, J..-L. Lassez,F.
Chin (eds.
), pp.
281-288, December1988.
Also in WISBER Report Nr.
32,University of Hamburg, 1988.H.
Horacek: Towards Principles of  Onto-logy.
In GWAI-89., Geseke, D.
Metzing(ed.
), pp.
323-330, Springer (publ.
),Berlin, 1989.H.
Homcek: The Architecture oFa Gener-ation Component in a Natural LanguageDialog System.
Appears in Current Re-search in Natural Language Generation,R.
Dale, C. Mellish, M. Zock (eds.
),Academic Press, 1990.A.
Jameson: Documentation for ThreeHAM-ANS Components: Ellipsis,NORMALIZE and NORMALIZE- I.HAM-ANS Memo Nr.
4, University ofHamburg, 1981.A.
Jameson, W. Wahlster: UserModelling in Anaphora Generation: Ellip-sis and Definite Descriptions.
In Proc.ECAI-82, pp.
222?227, 1982.H.-J.
Novak: Generating ReFerringPhrases in a Dynamic" Environment.
InAdvances in Natural L.anguage Gene_r-ation, M. Zock, G. Sabah (eds.
), Vol.
2,pp.
76-85, Pinter (publ.
), 1988.M.
Poesio: The QUARK ReFerence Man-ual.
WISBER Memo Nr.
22, Universityof Hamburg, 1988.M.
Sprenger: Interpretation von Modal-verben zur Konstruktion yon Patmenno-delleintrh'gen.
WISBER Memo Nr.
18_,University of Hamburg, 1988.I.
Steinacker, E. Buchberger: RelatingSyntax and Semantics: The Syntactico-Semantic Lexicon of the System VIE-LANG.
In Proc.
EACL-83, Pisa, Italy,1983.6 29
