Automatic Indexing and Government-Binding TheoryRobert J. Kuhns205 Walnut StreetBrookline, MA 02146USAABSTRACTThis project note describes a systern that receives, parses,indexes, and routes news reports.
The core of this ,'mtomaticindexer is a parser based on Govermnent-Binding Theory whichderives thematic and binding relationships of arguments of thesentences of slories.
These syntactic structures are interpretedby a semantic processor which is linked to conceptual represen-tations of terms from a controlled indexing vocabulary.
As aresult, the system is capable of indexing news with respect o alarge set of let+ms that denote Ihe content of the articles.I',ACKGROUNI)With the rapidly increasing \olume of text being generated.transmitted, processed, and stored, it becomes critical thatinformalion retrieval and routing be highly efficient, both intime of processing and accuracy.
To this end, indexing tech-niques have become the prinmry focus of much research, a~d 3'eldlese methods have relied on automatic keyword identificationfrom texts.
This is not to say that natural hmguagc techniqueshave not been examined with respect to their relevance forindexing and retrieval (cf./Sparck Jones and Kay 1973/,/Walker, Karlgren, and Kay 1977/, and more recently,/Sahonmid Smith 1989/).
It is that most systems rely on the presence orabsence of keywords with additional mechanisms such as prox-imity constraints, tatistical weighting, word-stem truncation,and boolean relrieval expressions.
However, these methods do~ot take into account the syntactic and semantic structureinherent in tile text being indexed.
That is, they make virtuallyno use of the fact that it is natural anguage and not a collectionof arbitrary strings of characters that is being processed.Natural anguage processing (NLP) can make its most valuablecont,'ibutions to those aspects of indexing where the keywordapproaches fail, viz., the assignment of terms ~.o text based ontheir semantic or conceptual content.
This involves derivingabstract relationships among conceptual units.
For example,consider a story stating:( 1 ) China bought 6,000 tonncs of wheat from theUnited States.\[)he plausible categorization of (1) is thai it is about foreigntrade.
However, the phrase "foreign trade" does not appear in(1), and it is invariably absent fl'om foreign trade stories ingeneral.
Furthermore, it is extremely unlikely that such foreigntrade stories cottld be retrieved in an efficient manner, i.e., witha tew simple queries.
The central issue is that although theparticulars (e.g., country names and types o fcommodilies) wuy,the basic lneanings of foreign trade slodes are equivalent atsome level, and that this level is wduable for indexing purposes.This suggests that systems that could operate at a conceptuallevel would be capable of indexing in ways that cotdd permithighly effective retrieval.It is with the assumption that NLP technology can provide tilemeans of categorizing text that guide several recent efforts.
Inparticular, each of/Hayes et al 1988/,/Kuhns 1988/, and/Rauand Jitcobs 1988/ describes ystems that characterize newsreports with results that could llOt be obtained by keywordmethods alone.
Since a news analysis system (NAS) was firstreported in/Kuhns 1988/, a number of major enhancements toits design and underlying functionality have been incorporated.It is the purpose of this paper to report on tbe current state of NASand ils COlllpolleI\]ts.SCOPE AND OB,IECTIVESA primary design goal behind NAS is to develop a systememploying NLP technology that wouh:t be capable of eitherrouting news t'rom electronic news feeds in real-time or indexingnews with respect o very large sets of indexing terms (author-ity files).
~ This vocabulary is broad and ranges over diversedomains, with lerms representing proper names, concrete ob-jects, or abslract relationships.
The last type is dependent on thecontent of the stories and is particularly suited for the syntactic/semantic techniques of NAS.The form of the indexes that NAS produces is a set of pairs ofheadings and subheadings or descriptors.
The headings arefrequently proper names while the descriptors add detailed in-formation to the index by denoting various relationships ofentities mentioned in the news reports.ARCHITECTURAL OVERVIEWTile architecture of NAS is modular consisting of several mainsubsystems, viz., a set of preprocessors and template filters, aparser, a lexicon, a semantic interpreter, a set of concept bases,and an indexer (Figure 1).
The system is transportable in that itcan be interfaced to different news streams and indexing vo-cabularies.A preprocessor receives a news stream which can be flom asatellite dish link, a direct line, or a text file, and identifies thebeginning and ending of stories in addition to their titles, sen-tences, and words.
Since the format of each news feed, e.g.,Reuters or Kyodo, is distinct from the others, a single preproces-sor will accept only one news feed.
For rigidly-formatted articlesthat are numerical or non-texttlal inform, a template filter, whichis an indexing component of low-level routines, categorizesthem from lhe title while deriving specifics l'rom the body of tilestory.1 397Lexicon ITemplate FilterWords~1 ndexesTextualStor ies\[Parser iI I %c~Ttl to.co, i Structures ~ I ~TermsAn Architectural Overview of NASFigure 1Figure 2 is an actual example (from Reuters) that has beenindexed by the ternplate filter.
The system outputs the companyname with a descriptor "3rd Quarter Earnings," as well as thecurrent and cumulative arnings or losses.
@R101903647/&ACTMEDIA INC <ACTM.0> 3RD QTR LOSSWESTHAMPTON BEACH, N.Y., Oct 19, Reuter -Shr loss 14 cts vs profit 10 ctsNet loss 1,674,000 vs profit 1.207,000Revs 26.7 mln vs 19.1mlnNine MonthsShr loss 19 cts vs profit 34 ctsNet loss 2,280,000 vs profit 4,080,000Revs 71.6 mln vs 59.8 rainReuter(2) Agent (COMPANY)Predicate (INTRODUCE)Theme (PRODUCT).This structure denotes that a product introduction is one wherea company introduces (or, synonymously, releases) a product.
Inshort, it is a list of typed nodes.
A report will be characterized asa product introduction story if it contains a sentence some ofwhose grammatical components (e.g., agent, predicate, theme)can be associated tothe corresponding odes of{ 2), Suppose, l:orexample, a news item reports{3) Alpha Corp said it plans to release a newworkstation in Japan.The parser, in accordance with GB principles, produces:indexes:Company Name - ACTMEDIA INCDescriptor - 3RD Quarter EarningsSubject - Net loss 1,674,000Descriptor - Current EarningsSubject - Net loss 2,280,000Descriptor - Cumulative Earnings(4) Agent (Alpha Corp)Predicate (said)PropositionAgent (Alpha Corp)Predicate (plans)PropositionAgent (Alpha Corp)Predicate (release)Theme (a new workstation)In (Japan)A Numerical Story and Its IndexFigure 2In contrast, textual stories require grammatical processing andthese are sent to the parser and semantic interpreter.
The parserwhich relies on the principles of Government-Binding (GB)Theory (/Chomsky 1981/3, outputs predicate-argument struc-ture of each sentence of a sto W.a In doing so, the parser identi tiesempty categories, viz., PROs, traces, and variables, and thematicrelations, and resolves antecedent and anaphor and pronominalbindings.
It should be noted that the parser is interfaced to alexicon of over 17,000 items that was developed by analyzingstrings (words) from a newswim.
The size of the lexicon issufficient for news processing.The semantic interpreter maps the grammatical structures ontoconceptual representations or filters stored in a concept base.
Forinstance, a representation for "Product Introduction" isThe parser binds the pronominal it, the agent of plans, to A~)haCor~tx, the subject or agent of the matrix clause.
The parser alsodetects an empty category, viz., PRO, in the embedded sentence(proposition) with release as the verb and binds the pronominalto it.Since bound arguments share the same semantic features, thesemantic interpreter determines that the agent of release in (4) isof type COMPANY.
In other words, PRO inherits the propertyof COMPANY from the agent of the matrix sentence via theintermediate pronominal k. It also determines that the predicaterelease is synonymous with introduce and the theme worksta-tion is a product.
With the arguments typed and membership ofthe predicate within a synonym class known, the semantic proc-essor can match the corresponding nodes of the most deeply em-bedded clause of (4) with (2), and thus determines that thesentence is about a product introduction.
Associated with eachconceptual filter is a set of indexing procedures that are invoked398 2by the indexing mechanism when a conceptual fi ter is satisfied.These thnctions are integrated with databases containing theindexing vocabulary and they identify specific informationabout a story including company, personal, and product names,and descriptors indicating specific relationships, Figure 3 illus-trates the corporate and personal name identification capabili-ties and the level of "understanding" as reflected by the subhead-ings.
@ R080100252/&ALCO HEALTH<AAIIS.0> CHIEF EXECUTIVE RETIRESVALLEY FORGE, Pa., Aug 1, Renter - Alco Health Serv-ices Corp said Ray B. Mundt has been named acting chairmanand chief executive officer, succeeding John H. Kennedy, whois retiring.indexes:Company Name -Descriptor -Alco Health Services CorpOfficials and EmployeesPersonal Name - Kennedy, John H.Descriptor - RetirementPersonal Name -Descriptor -Mundt, Ray B.Select ion",Appointme ntA Textual Story and its IndexFigure 3BENCHMARKSFormal benchnmrks have been established based on news fromReuters.
On a Symbolics 3640, NAS can process entire days ofnews (500-600 storiesMay) in 35-40 minutes and can assignindexes to approximately 75% of the stories.
(The phumed goalof at least 85% coverage iscertainly achievable.)
Accuracy was.judged exlremely high by a group of independent indexers andeditors.
Quality cotdd not be judged quantitatively clue to thecomplexity artd subjectivity of the indexing terms and proce-dures.FUTURE DIRECTIONSIn addition to continual extensions tothe various colnponents ofthe system, a design for an interface of NAS to deductivedatabases has begun.
The development of this extension wouldenable databases to be generated automatically with indexesbeing stored as logical relations, thereby, permitting retrieval oralerting capabilities based on explicit as well as implicit c,rinferred information.A NOTE ON THE IMPLEMENTATIONNAS was developed in ZetaLisp on Symbolics workstations.
Ithas been converted to Common Lisp and runs on Maclvory andMacintosh computers.CONCLUSIONThe results of NAS demonstrate hat it is possible to employnatural language processing and, in particular, linguistic-basedparsers, to extract conceptual information from texts (news).This coupling of theoretical (GB) results with a large-scaleapplication provides insights into the possibilities and limita-tions of computational aswell as formal inguistics.NOTEStThe natural language component, however, is not restricted tonews processing.
With another preprocessor and links to anexpert system, the system has processed text found on insuranceapplications.2The use of a GB-based parser within this application resultsflom the ongoing research and development on this type ofparser.
(/Kuhns 1986/describes an earlier implementation fGB Theory.)
From a research perspective, a parser based on lin-guistic theory and applied to "real-world" text helps identify theboundaries or interface conditions between core and peripheralaspects of the theory.
In other words, since GB is a model of coregrammar and language contains marginal or marked conslruc-tions, a GB-based parser nmst co-routine principles of the theorywith hmguage-specific rules in order to have wide coverage.
(/Fomita 1988/makes a similar observation.)
Thus, it is thiscombination ofa psychologically-real theory and an applicationusing fl'ee text that may provide insight into the human sentenceprocessing mechanism.REFERENCESChomsky, N., ( 1981 ) Lectures on Government andBinding, Foris Publications, Dordrecht, Holland.ttayes, P.J., L.E.
Knecht, and M.J Cellio, (1988),"A News Categorization System," in Proceedings o1' theSecond Conference on AEplied Natural Langu~,~cProcessing, Austin, Texas.Kuhns, R.J., (1986), "A PROLOG Implementation fGovernment-Binding Theory," in Proceedings of the XlthInternational Conference on Computational Lin~t_fistic~,Bonn, West Germany.Kuhns, R.J., (1988), "A News Analysis System," inProceedings of the Xllth International Conference onComputational Lin,,,,uistics Budapest, Hungary.Rau, L.F., and P.S.
Jacobs, (1988), "Integrating Top-Downand Bottom-Up Strategies in a Text Processing System."
inProceeding8 of the Second Conference on Applied Naturall _ ,an~e Processit~, Austin, Texas.Sahon, G., and M. Smith, (1989),"On the Application ofSyntactic Methodologies in Automatic Text Analysis," inProceedings ofthe Twelve Ammal International ACMSIGIRConference on Research and Development in InflsmationRetrieval, C~ambridge, Massachusetts.Sparck Jones, K., and M. Kay (1973), L ijL.guistics andInformation Science, Academic Press, New York.Tomita, M., (1988), "Combining Lexicon-Driven Parsing andPhrase-Structure-Based Parsing," in Proceedings ofthe X\]hhInternational Conference on Computational Linguistics,Budapest, Hungary.Walker, D.E., H. Karlgren, and M. Kay (eds.
), (1977).Natural Lan~ in Information Science.
FID Publication551, Skriptor, Stockhohn.3 399
