Translation by AbductionJ e r ry  R. HobbsArt i f ic iM Inte l l igence CenterSR I  In ternat iona lMen lo  Park ,  Cal i fornia.Meguln i  I (ameya.maCenter  for the S tudy  of Languageand  In fo rmat ionS tanford  Un ivers i tyS tanford ,  California.Mach ine  Trans lat ion  and  World Knowledge.Many existing approaches to machine translation takefor granted that the information presented in the out-put is found somewhere in the input, and, moreover,that such information should be expressed at a singlerepresentational level, say, in terms of the parse treesor of "semantic" mssertions.
Languages, however, notonly express the equivalent information by drasticallydifferent linguistic means, but also often disagree inwhat distinctions should be expressed linguistically atall.
For example, in translating from Japanese to En-glish, it is often necessary to supply determiners fornoun phr;tses, and this ira general cannot be (lone with-out deep understanding of the source ~ text.
Similarly,in translating fl'om English to Japanese, politenessconsiderations, which in English are implicit in tilesocial situation and explicit in very diffuse wws ira,for examl)le, tile heavy use of hypotheticals, must berealized grammatically in Japanese.
Machine trans-lation therefore requires that the appropriate infer-(noes be drawn and that the text be interpreted tostone depth (see Oviatt, 1988).
Recently, an elegantapproach to inference in discourse interpretation hasbeen developed at a number of sites (e.g., ltobbs et al,1988; Charniak and Goldman, 1988; Norvig, 1987),all based on tim notion of abduction, and we havebegun to explore its potential application to machinetranslation.
We argue that this approach provides thepossibility of deep reasoning and of mapping betweenthe languages at a variety of levels.
(See also Kaplanet al, 1988, on the latter point.)
1Interpretation as Abduct ion .
Abductive infer-enee is inference to the best explanation.
The easi-est way to understand it is to compare it with twowords it rhymes with---deduction and induction.
De-duction is; when from a specific fa.ct p(A) and a gen-1The authors have profited from discussions about this workwith Mark Stickel and with the l)arl.lcipants in the 'rransla-tion Group at CSLI.
The research was funded by the I)eDnseAdvanced Research Projects Agency under Ot/iee of Naval Fie-search contract N00014-85-Co0013, and by a gift fl'om the Sys-tems Development Fmmdatlon.eral rul  (V*)v(:) q(*) we co, ch, de q(A).
In-duction is when from a number of instances of p(A)and q(A) and perhaps other factors, we conclude(Vx)p(x) D q(x).
Abduction is the third possibil-ity.
It.
is when fl'om q(A) and (Vx)p(x) D q(a:), :reconch, de p(A).
Think of q(A) as some observationalevidence, of (Vx)p(x) D q(x) ~s a general aw thatcould explain the occurrence of q(A), and of p(A) asthe hidden, underlying specific cause of q(A).
Muchof tile way we interpret he world in general can beunderstood as a process of abduction.When the observational evidence, the thing to beinterpreted, is a natural anguage text, we must pro-vide the best explanation of why the text would betrue.
In the TACITUS Project at SRI, we have de-veloped a scheme for abductive inference thatyieldsa significant simplification i  the description of inter-pretation processes and a significant extension of therange of phenomena that can be captured.
It has beenimplemented in the TACITUS System (Itobbs et al,1988, 1990; Stickel, 1989) and has been applied toseveral varieties of text.
The framework suggests theintegrated treatment of syntax, semantics, and prag-mattes described below.
Our principal aim in thispaper is to examine the utility of this frmnework as amodel for translation.In the abductive framework, what the interpreta-tion of a sentence is can be described very concisely:'.Ib interpret a sentence:(1) Prove tile logical form of the sentence,together with the constraints thatpredicates iml)ose on theirarguments,allowing for coercions,Merging redundancies where possible,Making assumptions where necessary.By the first line we mean "prove from the predicatecalculus axioms in tile knowledge base, the logical1 155form that.
has been produced by syntacl.ic analysisand selnantic translation of t.he sentence.
"In a discourse situation, the speaker and hearerhotll have their sets of private belieN, and there isa.
large overlapping set of mutual beliefs.
An utter-ance stands with one foot in nmtual belief and onefoot in the speaker's private beliefs.
It is a bid to ex-tend the area of mutual belief to include some privatebeliefs of the speaker's.
It is anchored referentiallyin mutual belief, and when we prove the logical formand the constraints, we are recognizing this referen-tial anchor.
This is the given in formation, the definite,the presupposed.
Where it is necessary to make as-sumptions, the information comes from the speaker'sprivate beliefs, and hence is the new information, theindefinite, the ~sserted.
Merging redundancies i away of getting a minimal, and hence a best, interpre-tat, ion.An Example .
This characterization, elegantthough i~ may be, would be of no interest if it didnot lead to the solution of the discourse problenas weneed to have solved.
A brief example will illustratet.hat it indeed does.
(2) The Tokyo office called.This example illustrates three problems in "localpragmatics", the reference i~roblem (What does "theTokyo oftlce" refer to'?
), t, be compound nominal in-terpretation problem (What is the implicit relationbetween Tokyo and the office?
), and the metonymyproblem (ltow can we coerce from the office to theperson at the office who did the calling?
).Let us put these problems aside, and interpret hesentence according to characterization (1).
The logi-cal form is something like(3) (3 e, z, o,b)calr(e, ~;) A pe,'son(z)Arel(x,o) A office(o) A nn(t,o)A Tokyo(t)That is, there is a calling event e by a person x relatedsomehow (possibly by identity) to the explicit subjectof the sentence o, which is an office and bears someunspecified relation nn to t which is Tokyo.Suppose our knowledge base consists of the follow-ing facts: We know that there is ~ person John whoworks for O which is an office in Tokyo T.(4) person(J), work-fo,'(J,O), office(O),in(O, T), Tokyo(T)Suppose we also know that work-for is a possiblecoercion relation,(5) (v x, y) y)a.nd that in is a possible implicit relation in compoundnominals,(6) (v y, z),:,,(y, z) y)Then the proof of all but tim first, conjunct of (3) isstraightforward.
We tiros assutl\]e (~ e)call'(e, J), andthis constitutes the new informalAon.Notice now that all of our local pragmatics prob-lems have been solved.
"The Tokyo office" hms beenresolved to O.
The implicit relation between Tokyoand the office has been determined to be the in rela-tion.
"The Tokyo office" has been coerced into "John,who works for the Tokyo office.
"This is of course a simple example.
More com-plex examples and arguments are given in ltobbsat al., (1990).
A more detailed description of themethod of abductive inference, particularly the sys-tem of weights and costs for choosing among possibleinterpretations, i  given in that paper and in Stickel,(1989).The  In tegrated  F ramework .
The idea of in-terpretation as abduction can be combined with theolder idea of parsing as deduction (Kowalski, 1980,pp.
52-53; Pereira and Warren, 1983).
C, onsider agrammar written in Prolog style just big enough t,ohandle sentence (2).
(7) (Vi, j ,k)np(i, j) A v(j,k) D s(i,k)(8) (Vi,j,k,l)det(i, j) A n(j,k) A n(k,I)D np(i, 1)That is, if we have a noun phrase from "inter-wordpoint" i to point j and a verb from j to k, then wehave a sentence from i to k, and similarly for rule (8).We can integrate this with our abductive frameworkby moving the various pieces of expression (3) intothese rules for syntax, ms follows:(9) (Vi, j ,k,e,x,y,p)np(i, j ,y) A v(j,k,p)Ap'(e,x) A Req(p,x) A rel(x,y)s(i, k, e)That is, if we have a noun phrase from i to j refer-ring to y and a verb from j to k denoting predicatep, if there is an eventuality e which is the conditionof p being trne of some entity x (this corresponds tocalf(e, x) in (3)), if ~ satisfies the selectional require-ment p imposes on its argument (this corresponds toperson(x)), and if x is somehow related to, or co-ercible from, y, then there is an interpretable sentencefrom i to k describing eventuality e.(10) (Vi,j,k,l,w~,w~,z,y)det(i, j,the)^ (j,k,wd ^  ,.
(k,l, ^ ^  2(y)A nn(z, y) D np(i, I, y)1~56 2That is, if l.here is the determiner "the" from i to j, anoun from j to k denoting predicate wl, and anothernoun from k to 1 denoting predicate w~, if there is az that wl is l,rue of and a y that w2 is true of, arm ifthere is a.n nn.
relation between z and Y, then there isan interprelable noun phrase fl'om i to I denoting y.These rules incorporate the syntax in the liter-als like v(j,k,p), the pragmatics in the litera.ls likep'(e,a:), and the compositional semantics in the waythe pragmatics expressions are constructed out of tiltin lbrmal.ion provided by the syntactic expressions.To 1)arse wilh a grammar in the Pmlog style, weplove s(0, N) where N is the number of words in I,hesentence.
To parse and interpret in the integrated,,,e prove (3 N,An appeal of su<:h declarative frameworks is theiru.~ability for generation as welt as interpretation(Shieber, 1988).
Axioms (9) and (10) ca.n be usedfor generation as well.
In generation, we are given anewmtuality l'2, and we need t.o find a seutence withsorne number n of words that describes it.
Thus, wen,:ed t.o prove (3,,)s(0, n, ?').
Whereas in interpreta-tion il, is tile new informal.ion that is assumed, in gen-eral, ion it is I:.he terminal nodes, like v(j, k, p), that area,';:;umed.
As.suming them constitutes uttering l, heln.Translation is a matter of interpreting in the sourcelanguage (say, English) and generating in the targetlanguage (sa.y, Japanese).
Thus, it can be cha.rac-terized as proving for a sentence with N words thee:~ l)ression(\]:1) N,e) awhere sf.
: is I.he root node of the English grammar andso is the root.
node of the Japanese.Actually, ~,his is not quite true.
Missing in the logi-cal form in (3) and in the grammar of (9) and (10) isthe "relative mutual identifiabillty" relations that areencoded in the syntactic structure of sentences.
Forexample, the o\[lice in (2) should be mutually identifi-able once Tokyo is identified.
In the absence of theseconditions, the generation conjunct of (11) only saysto express something true of e, not something thatwill enable the hearer to identify it.
Nevertheless, theframework a.s it is developed so fa.r will allow us toaddress ome nontrivial problems in translation.This l)oint exhibits a general problem in transla-tion, machine or human, namely, how literal a trans-lation should be produced.
We may think of this as ascale.
At one pole is what our current formalizationyMds- -a  translation that merely says something trueabout the eventuality asserted in the source sentence.AI.
the other pole is a translation that translates ex-plicitly every property that is explicit in the sourcesentence.
Our translation below of example (2) liessomewhere in between these two poles, ldeMly, tiletranslation should be one that will lead the hearer totile same underlyiug situation as an interpretation.
I~is not yet clear how this can be specified hmnally.The  ExamI) le  T rans la ted .
All idiomatic trans-lation of sentence (2) is(12) Tokyo no office kara denwa ga a.ri-nmshita.Tokyo 's  ofllce f,'om call Subj existedLet us say the logical form is ~ follows:(13) aru(e) A ga(d,e) A denwa(d) A kora(o,e)A office(o) A ,,o(1., o) A Tokyo(QA toy grammar plus pragmatics for Japanese, cor-resl)onding to the grammar of (9)-(10) is ~s follows~:(14) (Vi, j ,k, l ,e,p)pp(i, j ,e) A pp(j,k,e)A v(< t, ^ > ,(i, l, e)(15) (Vi, j,k,z,e,pari),,p(i,j,;,:)A pa,'t ide(j, k, l,a,'t ) A pa,'t(x,e)-o pp(i, k, e)(16) (Vi,j,k,l,.~,V),u,(i,j,~j) A pa,'iicle(j,k,,,o)a t, A ,,,o(v,.p(i, l, z)(17) (Vi, j ,w,z)n(i , j ,w) A w(.~) D np(i,j,z)pp(i, j ,  e) mean.~ that there is a particle phrase from ito j with the missing a.rgumenl, e. part is a particleand the predicate it encodes.If we are going to translate between the two lan-guages, we need axioms specifying the transfer relaotions.
Let us suppose "denwa" is lexically ambigu-ous between the telephone instrument denwal andthe calling event denwa2.
This can be encoded in thetwo axioms(18) aenw ( )Lexical disambiguation occurs &s a byproduct of in-terpretation in this framework, when the proof of thelogical form uses one or the other of these axioms.
"i)enwa ga aru" is an idiomatic way of expressinga calling event in Japanese.
This can be expressed bythe axiom(20) (Ve, x )ca . '
(<x)  D (3,0,1e,,.,,o.~(, 0A :~,,(a, e) A a,',,(e)The agent of a calling event is Mso its source:2For simplicity in t.his example, we are assuming the wordsof the senl.ences are given; in practice, this can be carried downto the level of characters.3 157(21) _9We will need an axiom i, hat coarsens the granularityof l.he source.
If Jolm is in Tokyo when he calls, thenTokyo as well as aolln is the source.
(22) (v y, ^ ;DD Source(y, e)If x works for y, then x is in y:(23) (V x, y)work-for(z, y) D in(z, y.
)Finally, we will need axioms specifying the equiva-lence of the particle "karl" with the deep cruse Source(24)  -and the equivalence between tile particle.
<<no" and theimplicit relation in English compound nolniuals(2r,) (v  v)  - .,DNote that these "transfer" axioms encode worldknowledge (22 and 23), lexical ambiguities (18 and19), direct relations between tile two languages (20and 25), and relations between the lang,\[ages and deep"interlingnal" predicates (21 and 24).
'the proof of expression (11), using the Englishgrammar of (9)-(10), tile knowledge base of (4)-(6),tile Japanese grammar and lexicon of (14)-(19), andthe transfer a.xioms of (20)-(25), is shbwn in Figure1.
Boxes are drawn a.round the expressions that needto be assmned, namely, the new information in theinterpretation and the occurrence of lexical it.eros inthe generation.The axioms occnr at a variety of levels, from tilevery superficial (axiom 25), to very langnage-pair spe-cific transfer ules (axiom 20), to deep relations at theinterlingual level (axioms 21-24).
This approach thuspermits mixing in one framework both transfer andinterlingual approaches to translation.
One can statetransfer ules between two languages at various levelsof linguistic abstraction, and between different levelsof the respective languages.
Such freedom in transferis exactly what is needed for translation, especiallyfor such typologically dissimilar languages as Englishand Japanese.
It is thus possible to build a single sys-tem for translating among more than two languagesin this framework, incorporating the labor savings ofinterlingual approaches while allowing the convenientspecifieities of transfer approaches.We should note that other translations for sentence(2) are possible in different contexts.
Two other pos-sibilities are the following:(26) Tokyo no office ga denwa shirnashita.Tokyo's office Subj call did-PoliteTi, e 'tokyo omce made {aM, el call.
(27) Tokyo no otlice kara no denwa ga arimashita.Tokyo's office from's call Subj existed-PoliteThere was the call fl'om the Tokyo omce (thatwe were expecting).The difference between (12) and (26) is the speaker'sviewpoint.
Tile speaker takes tile receiver's viewpointin (12), while it is neutral between the caller and thereceiver in (26).
(27) is a more specific version of(12) where the call is mutually identifiable.
All of(12), (26) and (27) are polite with the suffix "-masu".Non-polite variants are also possible translations.On the other hand, in the following sentence(28) Tokyo no office karl denwa shimashita.Tokyo's office from call did-Polite\[1 made {althe\] call fl'om the Tokyo omce.there is a sti!ollg hfference that the caller is the speakeror son\]eone lse who is very salient hi the current coil-text.The use of "shimashita" ( "d id") in  (26) and (28)indica.tes tim description from a neutral poiig of viewof an event of some agent in tile Tokyo office CallSillga telephone call to occnr at the recipienWs end.
Thisneutral point of view is expressed in (26).
In (28), tilesubject is omitted and hence must be salient, and con-sequently, the sentence is told from tile caller's pointof view.
In (12) "ari-mashit?'
("existed") is used,and since the telephone call exists primarily, or only,at the recipient's end, it is a~ssumed the speaker, atleast in point of view, is at the receiver's end.Although we have not done it here, it looks asthough these kinds of considerations can be formal-ized in our framework as well.I Iard Prob lems.
If a new approach to machinetranslation is to be compelling, it must show promiseof being able to handle some of the hard problems.We have identified four especially hard problems intranslating between English and Japanese.1.
The lexical differences (that occur between anytwo languages).2.
Honorifics.3.
Definiteness and number.4.
The context-dependent "information structure".The last of these includes the use of "wa" versus "g?
',tile order of noun phrases, and the omission of argu-ments.158 4(7 e,n) SW(0,4,e ) Sj (0,n,e)PP(0,4,E) & PP(4,6,E) & ~  & aru(E)NP(0,3,O) NP(4,5,D)NP(0,I,T) ~ ' ~'.i;!
;i, / & NP(2,3,0) _%o,.0,& Tokyo(T) / & office(O) /NP(0,3,O) ~ person(J) & V(3,4,call) & ~  & rel(J,O) work-for(J,O)Det(0,l,the) & Noun(l,2,Tokyo) & Tokyo(T)un(2,3,office) & office(O)& nn(T,O)in(T,O)Figure i.
Translation by Abduction5 159These are the areas where one language's roofphosyntax requires distinctions that are only implicitin the commousense knowle(Ige or context, in tile otherlanguage.
Such problems cannot be handled by ex-isting senl.ence-by-senteuce translation syst.ems with-out unnecessarily complicating the representations foreach language.In this short paper, we can only give the briefestindication of why we think our framework will be pro-ductive in investigating the Iirst three of these prob-\]el/iS.Lexical Di f ferences.
Lexical differences , wherethey can be specified precisely, can be encoded ax-iomatically:(V~)w.te,'(~) ^ ,~.,'.qhot,(~) - v,,(~)(v , ) ,o .
t~h(~)  - tok~i(~) ^  ,,,o,,(~) '(yx)clock(x) =__ tokei(x) A ~worn($)Information required for supplying Japanese numeralclassifiers can be specified similarly.
Thus the equiv-alence between the English "two trees" and theJapanese "ni hou no ki" can be captured by tim ax-ioms(Vx)t,'ee(x) D cyli,,.d,'ica.l(~:) '(V x)eylind,'ieal(x) - hon(x)Honori l ies.
Politeness is expressed in very differ-ent ways in English and Japanese.
In Japanese itis grammaticized and \[exiealized in s6metimes veryelaborate ways in the form of houorifics.
One mightthink that the problem of honorifics does not arisein most practical translation tasks, such as translat-ing computer manuals.
English lacks honorifics andin Japanese technical iterature they are convention-alized.
But if we are translating business letters, thisaspect of language becomes very important.
It is re-alized in English, but in a very different way.
Whenone is writing to one's superiors, there is, for example,much more embedding of requests in hypotheticals.Consider for example the following English sentenceand its most idiomatic translation:Would it perhaps be possible for you to lendme your book?Go-hon o kashite-itadak-e-masu ka.llonorific-book Obj lending-receive-can- Polite ?In Japanese, the object requested is preceded by thehonorific particle "go", "itadak" is a verb used fora receiving by a lower status person from a higherstatus person, and "rnasu" is a politeness ending forverbs.
In English, by contrast, the speaker embeds160tile request in various modMs, "would", "perhaps ~',and "possible", and uses a more formal register thannormal, ill his choice, for example, of "perhaps" ratherthan "maybe".The facts about the use of honorifics can be encodedaxionmtically, with predicates uch as HigherStatus,where this information is known.
Since all knowledgein this framework is expressed uniformly in predicatecalculus axioms, it is straightforward to combine in-formation from different "knowledge sources", stlch assyntax and the speech act situation, into single rules.It is therefore relatively easy to write axioms that, forexample, restrict the use of certain verbs, dependingon the relative status of tim agent and object, or thespeaker and hearer.
For example, "to give" is trans-lated into the Japanese verb "kudasaru" if tim giveris of higher status than the recipient, but into theverb "s~shiageru" if the giver is of lower status.
Simi-larly, the grammatical fact about the use of tim suffix"-masu" and the fact about the speech act situationthat speaker wishes to be polite may also be expressedin the same axiom.We can also express the facts concerning the useof the honorific particle "o" (or "go") before nouns.There seem to be three closes of nouns in this re-spect.
Some nouns, such as "cha" ("tea"), always takethe particle ("o-cha').
Some nouns, especially loanwords like "kShi" ("coffee"), never take the particle.Other nouns, such ~ "bSshi" ("hat"), take the hon-orific prefix if the entity referred to belongs to some-one of higher status.
For this class of nouns we canstate the condition formally.
(Y i, j, k, p, x, y)Honorif ic(i ,  j, o)^ No.
(j, k, p) A p@) ^  pos   s(U,A HigherStatus(y, Speaker)D NP( i ,  k, x)That is, if the honorific particle "o" occurs from pointi to point j, the noun denoting the predicate p occursfrom point j to point k, and p is true of some entity xwhere someone y possesses x and y is of higher statusthan the speaker, then there is an interpretable nounphrase from point i to point k referring to x.Def in i teness  and Number .
The definiteness andnumber problem is illustrated by the fact that theJapanese word "ki" can be translated into "the tree"or "a tree" or "the trees" or "trees".
It in not sostraightforward to deal with this problem axiomati-cally.
Nevertheless, our framework, based ~ it is ondeep interpretation and on the distinction betweengiven and new information, provides us with what weneed to begin to address the problem.
A first approxi-mation of a method for translating Japanese NPs intoEnglish NPs is as follows:1.
R.esolve deep, i.e., find the referrent of theJapanese NP.2.
Does the Japanese NP refer t.o a set of two ormore?
If so, translate it as a plural, otherwise asa singular.3.
Is the entity (or set) "mutually identifiable"?
Ifso, then translate it ~s a definite, otherwise as anindefinite.
"Mutually identifiable" means first of all that the de-scription provided by the Japanese NP is mutuallyknown, and secondly that there is a siltgle most salientsuch entil,y.
"Most salient" means that there areno other equally high-ranking interpretations of theJapanese sentence that resolve tim NP in some otherway.
(Generic definite noun phrases are }?eyond thescope of this paper.)Conclusion.
We have sketched our solutions tothe various problems in translation with a fairly broadbrush in t, his short paper.
We recognize that manydetails need to be worked out, and that in fact most ofl, he work in machine translation is in working out thedetails.
But we felt that in proposing a new formalism\[or translation research, it.
was iml)orl, aut to sta.nd1)a.ek and get a. view of the forest befot'e moving in toexamine the individual trees.Most machine translation systems today map thesource language text into a logical form that is fairlyclose to the source language text, transfor,n it into alogical tbrrn that is fairly close to a target, languagetext, and generate the target language text.. Whatis needed is first of all the possibility of doing deepinterpretation when that is what is called for, andsecondly the possibility of translating from the sourceto the target langua.ge at a variety of levels, from themost superficial to levels requiring deep interpretationand access to knowledge about the world, the context,and the speech act situation.
This is precisely whatthe framework we have presented here makes possible.\[3\] Ilobbs, Jerry It., Mark Stickel, Paul Martin, andDouglas Edwards, 1990.
"Interpretation as Abduc-tion", forthcoming technical note.\[4\] l(aplan, ll.. M., 1(.
Netter, J. Wedekind, A. Zae-nen, 1989.
"Translation by Structural Correspon-dences", Proceedings, Fourth Conference of the Eu-ropean Chapter of the Association for Computa.--tional Linguistics, Manchester, United Kingdom,pp.
272-281.\[5\] Kowalski, l{obert, 1980.
5/7~.e Logic of ProblemSolving, North Holland, New York.\[6\] Norvig, Peter, 1987.
"Inference in Text Un-derstanding", Proceedings, AAAI-8Z Sixth Na-tional Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Seattle,Washington, July 1987.\[7\] Oviatt, Sharon L,, 1988.
"Managenmnt of mis-conmmnications: 'l~oward a System for Aut, onaatic'l~lephone Interpretation of Japanese-English I)i-alogues", Technical Note 438, SRI International,May 1988.\[8\] Pereira, Fernando C. N., and \])avid tI.
D. War-ren, 1983.
"Parsing as Deduction", Proceedings ofthe ~lst Annual Meeting, Association for Co~pu-rational Linguistics, pp.
137-144.
Cambridge, M~-sachusetts, June 1983.\[9\] Shieber, Siuart M., 1988.
"A Uniform Architec-ture for Parsing and Generation", Proceedings, l~thInlernational Conference on Computational Lin-guistics, pp.
614-619, Budapest, Hungary.\[10\] Stickel, Mark E. 1989.
"A Prolog TechnologyTheorem Prover: A New Exposition and Imple-mentation in Prolog", Technical Note No.
464.Menlo Park, Calif.: SR.I International.R, eferences\[1\] Charniak, Eugene, and Robert Goldman, 1988.
"A Logic tbr Semantic Interpretation", Proceedings,25th An'n~tal Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, pp.
87-94, Buffalo, New York,June 1988.\[..2\] Ilobbs, Jerry R,., Mark Stiekel, Paul Martin, andDouglas Edwards, 1988.
"Interpretation asAbduc-tion", Proceedings, 26lh Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Co~nputalional Linguistics, pp.
95-103, ltuffalo, New York, June 1988.6 161
