RECOGNIZ ING ADVICE ,  WARNINGS,PROMISES AND THREATSKevin DonaghySchool of Computer Science and Information TechnologyRochester Institute of Technology, Rochester, New York 14623hkd@cs.rit.eduIt is argued here that utterances in the imperativemood typically are embedded either explicitly orimplicitly in Aristotelean practical arguments, i.e.,arguments whose conclusions pecify an action to beperformed by an agent and whose premises providejustification for that action.
It is argued further thatthe illocutionary force of an imperative, e.g., advice,warning, request, etc., is determined by the structureof the practical argument in which it is embedded.Algorithms for reconstructing partial practical argu-ments are developed.
Emerging from the discussion isa set of heuristics for identifying advice, warnings,conditional promises and conditional threats in naturallanguage settings.
Sample output from a test programemploying these heuristics is presented.
Finally, it issuggested that the techniques outlined in this paperpoint to the possibility of dialogue and story under-standing systems which are more general and requiresignificantly less domain specific "knowledge than docurrent systems.I.
Practical ArgumentsConsider the utterance "Don't go near the stove".
Isthis a warning, an order, a request or perhaps aninstance of some other speech act category?
Apartfrom context, it is impossible to tell.
But once contextis supplied the answer is typically quite evident.1.
If you touch the stove, you will burn yourself.
Sodon't go near the stove.
(warning)2.
The player who avoids touching the stove usuallywins the game.
So don't touch the stove.
(advice)3.
I can't take another one of your casseroles.
If youwant to live don't touch the stove.
(threat)What these cases have in common is that they are allexamples of what philosophers ince Aristotle havecalled practical arguments, that is, arguments whoseconclusions name an action to be performed by anagent and whose premises provide reasons for theagent to perform that action.
Speech acts such asadvice, warning, instruction, and moral exhortation areconceptually inked to practical arguments in the fol-lowing way.
In classifying an utterance as advice,warning, etc., we specify the type of practical argu-ment in which that utterance is either implicitly orexplicitly embedded.Consider advice, for example.
To advise X to do Ais, among other things, to imply that X's interests willbe served by doing A.
When advice comes packagedThis project isfunded by Universal Energy Systems, hac.
andthe United States Air Force, Contract No.
F49620-8g-c-0053/SB5881-0378.in the form of an imperative, that implication func-tions as the premise of a general practical argumentwhose conclusion is "X, do A."
To warn X not to doA, on the other hand, is to imply that X's interestswill suffer if X does A.
That implication in turn func-tions as the premise of a general practical argumentwhose conclusion is "X, do not do A."
To morallyexhort X to do A is to imply that some moral end willbe served should X do A.
Once again, that implica-tion is the premise of the general practical argumentbeing advanced by the speaker.A fundamental ssumption of this paper is that argu-ments of the form "If X then Y.
So (don't) do Z.
"comprise a small but important subset of practicalarguments, for the reason that many if not all practicalarguments with imperative or quasi-imperative conclu-sions can be recast in this form without loss of mean-ing or structure.
This assumption is based on theAristotelian means-end model of practical argumentsas deliberations which "assume the end (viz.
a desireneed, interest or goal of the agent) and consider howand by what means it is to be attained."
(Aristotle,1915, 1112b15-31).
Consider the following example.The stove is hot.
So don't touch it.While readily understandable, this argument is incom-plete.
Fleshed out, it becomes1.
The stove is hot.2.
Hot things cause burns when touched.3.
If you touch the stove, you will burn yourself.
(1,2)4.
(You wish to avoid burning yourself.)5.
So don't touch the stove.
(3,4)In the short version, the hearer's interests as well asthe implications of the stove's being hot are so obvi-ous that they are not mentioned.
Note that in the longversion, I is not even a premise of the main argument.Its role is to provide evidence for 3.
If this exampleis typical, the form "If X then Y.
So (don't) do Z"may well capture the deep structure of a large andsignificant class of practical arguments.How does one go about reducing practical argumentsto the form "If X then Y.
So (don't) do Z"?
To con-tinue the example, suppose "Hot things cause burnswhen touched" has been stored in a knowledge base.The reduction of "The stove is hot.
So don't touch it"can then be carried out as follows.1.
Assume that the real premise (RP) of the the argu-ment is of the form "If X then Y" where X is thenegation of the propositional content of the conclusionand Y is some as yet unspecified harm to H.2.
Also assume that the role of the stated premise(SP) is to provide evidence for RP.13363.
The consequent of RP (viz.
"you will burn your?
:~elf') can now be deduced fiom SP and the knownfact that hot things cause burns when touched.This and sinfilar algorithms have been implemented in?ASA (Practical Arguments & Speech Acts), a testprogram which accepts practical arguments as inputand identifies their principal speeeh acts.:~.
PASA~everal hem'istics in PASA assist in the identificationof speech acts and reduce substantially the need fordomahl specific or nonlinguistic knowledge that wouldotherwise be necessary.
As a start, consider the fol-ilowing examples.~.
If you finishyour homework, l will give you morec~Lstor oil to drink.
So finish your homework.2.
If you don't finish your homework, I will give youmore castor oil to drink.
So finish your homework.In neither c~e is there any difficulty in deducing S'sviews on C~LStor oil.
In the first example, it is prom-i~ed as reward, and in the second is threatened as pun-ishment.
What makes these deductions possible is therelationship between the propositional contents of theimirerative and the antecedent of the conditional.
Inthe fu'st hlsumce they are identical; in the second, theone is the negation of the other.
PASA utilizes bothheuristics to identify speech acts and to deduce andrecord the evaluative stance of the speaker towards agiven state of affairs.
The former is instrumental inthe identification of promises and advice, and thelatter of threats and warnings.
"\[he next pair of exam-pies illustrate another helpful heuristic which in fact isa genelalization of the above.3.
If you finish your homework, I will give you morecastor oil to drink.
So get started.4.
If you don't finish your homework, I will give youmore castor oil to drink.
So get started.Since getting started on a project increases (dramati-c;ally) the likelihood of finishing iL it is obvious thatexample 3 is a promise and example 4 a threat.Whenever possible, PASA makes similar inferences.3, Sample I/OPASA was designed as a testbed for the ideasp~e.sented in sections 1 o 2.
As such, it is not a full-llcdged natural language system, nor even a matureprototype for such a system.
Inputs to the programme one premise practical arguments with imperativeconclusions.
In the initial set of examples, the princi-pal speech act is determined by examining the struc-ture of the argument and the syntactic form ofpremise's consequent.
Program output is in boldface.C-Prolog version 1.4I% \[pasa\].pasa consulted 33004 bytes 7.449997 sec.I?- talk.I: If you finish your homework then I will let youwatch television.
So finish that math.S promised to let you watch television if you finishyour homework.I: I will ground you for a week if you fail the testtomorrow.
So do not fail.S threatened to ground you for a week if you failthe test tomorrow.I: If you study for tile exam then you will pass.
Sostudy haxd.S advised you to study hard since if you study forthe exam you will paw.In the next exmnple, PASA first has to be taught therelationship between starting arid finishing a project.I: Start on your math right away.
I will let you watchtelevision tonight if you finish all your homeworkbefore six.Let Y be the state of affairs described in the conse?quent of the premise?
Which of the following mostaccurately describes the viewpoint of the speaker?A.
Y is in the interests of the hearer.B.
Y is not in tile interests of the hearer.C.
Y does not affect interests of the hearer one wayor tile oilier.l: A.Let X be the state of affairs d~cribed in theantecedent of the premise and Z the actionspecified in the conclusion.
Which of.
the followingmost accurately describes the viewpoint of thespeaker?A.
The hearer should do Z in anticipation of Y.B, By doing Z hearer would increase likelihood of X.C.
Neither of the above.k B.S promised to let you watch television tonight ifyou finish all your homework before six.
Startingon your ninth right away will make it more likelythat you will finish all your homework before sLx.PASA now knows what it needs to know in order toparaphrase similzLr cases.
The next example is anenthymeme.
PASA must generate the hidden premisebefore it can haz~ard a paraphrase.I: The stove is hot.
So do not touch the stove.S warned you not to touch the stove since if youtouch the stove you will be burned.4.
Towards Language Driven UnderstandingPASA is a modest example of a language drivenunderstanding system in which the need for domainspecific knowledge is minimized.
A methodologicaldecision was made early on to appeal to nonlinguisticinformation only as a last resort.
The motivation forthis was twofold, In the first place, domain driven sysoterns are inherently limited by the vast amounts ofdomain specific information required to process eventhe simplest texts.
There appears little hope of gen-eralizing these systems so that they are capable ofexploiting structural commonalities between storiesand dialogues from different donmins.
Secondly, reli-ance on domain knowledge for quick fixes to text pro-cessing problems tends to deaden sensitivity tolinguistic information present in those texts.337I am convinced that linguistic cues play a far richerand more powerful role in natural language under-standing than has been commonly supposed and thatspeech act analysis will prove a useful tool for sys-tematieally investigating those cues.
I conclude withan iUustration of how domain and language drivenapproaches to story understanding might differ.
Con-sider the following story (Wilensky, 1978, pp.
2-3).
"One day John went through a red light and waspulled over by a cop.
John had just gotten a sum-mons for speeding the previous week, and was toldthat if he got another violation, his license would betaken away.
Then John remembered that he had twotickets for the Giant's game on him.
He told the copthat he would g!ve them to him if he forgot the wholeincident.
The cop happened to be a terrific footballfan.
He took Iohn's tickets and drove away.Q1 Why did John offer the cop a couple of tickets?A1 Because he was afraid he was going to lose hislicense if he got another summons.
"Wilensky has this to say about he story.
"Consider what is involved in making the inferencethat John offered the cop his football tickets toprevent he loss of his license.
First, the reader wouldhave to infer that the cop was going to give John atraffic ticket.
This inference requires the knowledgethat a policeman is supposed to ticket people whobreak traffic rules... Now the reader must interpretJohn's statement to the cop as an attempt o preventhim from giving him a ticket.
To interpret his sen-tence as an offer, a reader must know that one way toprevent someone from doing something is to persuadehim not to do it....by offering him something desirablein exchange for his cooperation.
The understandercan (then) infer that football tickets are desirable to afootball fan, since football tickets are necessary forgetting into a football game.
"Wilensky is setting the stage for a domain driventheory of understanding in which large stores of non-linguistic knowledge are required for storycomprehension.
Ironically, this very type ofknowledge often impedes rather than assistscomprehension, a fact known to every writer who hasemployed the O'Henry formula to surprise his audi-ence.
One can imagine such a writer adding a shortparagraph to Wilensky's story in which it is revealedthat John, desperately hoping to lose his license, hadthreatened the cop with football tickets, a threat whichproved pathetically ineffective.
A major drawback inthe domain driven approach is that it limits the under-stander to one interpretation of a story when severalmay be possible.
Consider the same story from alanguage driven perspective.
The story is presented inschematic form to insure that the understander has lit-tle or no domain knowledge available to him.1.
One day A did B and was approached by C.2.
A had just been given a D for doing E the previousweek, and was told that if he got another D, then Fwould happen.3.
Then A remembered that he had a G with him.4.
A told C that he would give him a G if C did notgive him a D.5.
C accepted the G and did not give A a D.A = John B = ran a traffic lightC = cop D = ticketE = speeding F = John loses licenseG = football ticketsAn understander would make little headway with theschematic version of the story until reaching statement4, where it becomes evident hat A has either prom-ised or threatened to give C a G if C does not givehim a D. At this point the schema lends itself to twoquite different interpretations.Suppose that 4 is a conditional promise.
Given thepurpose of such promises, it follows that A does notwant C to give him a D. Thus, from A's point ofview, getting another D is undesirable.
Now somesense can be made of statement 2.
There is a strongprobability that the the reason why getting another Dis undesirable is because it would lead to F. So F toois most likely undesirable from A's perspective.Given this interpretation of 4, the understander nowknows all he needs to know about the schematic storyto answer the sample question.Q Why did A say that he would give G to C if C didnot give him a D?AI Because A was afraid that F would happen if Cgave D to A.Now suppose that 4 is a conditional threat.
In thiscase, it follows that A wants C to give him a D.Given statement 2, the likelihood is that the reasonwhy getting another D is desirable from A's perspec-tive is that it would lead to F. So F too is likelydesirable.
The appropriate answer to Q in this case isA2 Because A hoped that F would happen if C gaveDtoA.It is of some interest hat on this method of analysis,the inherent ambiguity of the story is preserved.
Thisexample and others like it provide suggestive videncethat understanding the general structure of such storiesrequires far less domain specific knowledge thanWilensky would lead us to believe.
Clearly, many ofthe necessary inferences can be drawn from linguisticcues gleaned from the text.
Domain knowlexlge facili-tates and enriches comprehension.
However, it maynot be as fundamental to the task of understanding assome researchers have suggested.REFERENCESAristotle (1915).
Ethica Nichomachea.
In W.D.
Ross(Trans.
), The Works of Aristotle Translated intoEnglish (Vol.
ix).
London: Oxford University Press.Cohen, P.R., & Levesque, H.J.
(1985).
Speech actsand rationality.
Proc.
ACL, 49-59.Searle, J.
(1969).
Speech Acts.
Cambridge: Cam-bridge University Press.Wilensky, R. (1978).
Understanding oal-basedstories.
Ph.D Thesis.
YI40.338
