"TRANSLATION GREAT PROBLEM" - ON THE PROBLEM OF INSERTINGARTICLES WHEN TRANSLATING FROM RUSSIAN INTO SWEDISHBy Barbara Gawrofiska-WerngrenDept of Linguistics, Lund University, SWEDENHelgonabacken 12, S-22362 LUND, e-mail: linglund@gemini.ldc.seThe problem to be discussed here - i.e.
how togenerate exponents of a morphosyntacticfeature which is systematically used in thetarget hmguage, but not in the source hmguage -is ch)sely related to the development ofSWETRA - a multilanguage MT system fortranslating between fragments of Russian,Swedish, English and German (Sigurd &Gawroffska-Werngren,  1988).
Anyoneworking on translation between Russian andGermanic languages must face difficulties asRussian NPs do not have either indefinite ordefinite articles.The solutions proposed here have beenimplemented in the SWETRA - program, whichis based on a functional GPSG formalismcalled Referent Grammar (RG; Sigurd 1987).RG-rewriting rules, implemented in DefiniteClause Grammar, are used both for analysisand synthesis.
The result of parsing is a so-called functional representation (f-repre-sentation), containing descriptions of the con-stituents and information about their syntacticfunctions.
An f-representation of a simple tran-sitive sentence like "a boy met a girl" looks likethis:s(subj(np(r(_,m(boy,sg),indef, sg .
.
.
.
),Attrl,Relcll))pred(m(meet,past)),obj(np(r(_,m(girl,sg),indef, sg .
.
.
.
.
.
)Attr2,Relcl2)),sadvl(\[\]),sadvl(\[\]),advl(\[\]),advl(\[\]),advl(\[\])).The entity with the functor , called "referentnucleus", is a description of the head noun.Slots Attrl/Attr2 and RelcllRelcl2 are used,respectively, for storing possible attributes andrelative clauses.Given an instantiated f-representation, theprogram can generate the target equivalent ofthe input string according to target-specificrules.
But if a certain value required in thetarget language (as definiteness in Swedish andEnglish) is unspecified in the source language(as definiteness in Russian), the informationstored in the f-representation may beinsufficient for generating a grammaticallycorrect output (although the output may becomprehensible).
So there is a need of anintermediate (transfer) stage between analysisand synthesis.
The most probable definitenessvalues must be derived from the context beforethe target rules for marking definiteness tart towork.
Since the notions of reference and co-reference are crucial when choosingdefiniteness values, this intermediate stage willbe called "referent tracking".A prel iminary discourse model forreferent trackingInformally, discourse referents are oftendefined as "things the sender is talking about".Referring means primarily pointing out objectsand facts in the external world, but we havealso to pay attention to those linguistic factorswhich enable identifying two or more phrasesas co-referential.
Obviously, two co-referentialwords or strings of words do not have to pointout a physically existing thing: they may allude1 133to an event or an abstract concept.
So discoursereferents nmst be understood as cognitiveentities existing in the mental world.In the program for referent trackingdiscussed below, a distinction is drawnbetween ominal referents - alluding to objects:cats, unicorns etc.
- roughly, to things whichcan be pointed out by non-linguistic means, inpotential (unicorns may be pointed out on apicture or drawn) and "event referents" -referents of whole predications or predicative(verbal) NPs.
"Event referents" correspond tosituations;, actions or relations between objects.This distinction is not unproblematic (there areobviously borderline cases), but it is useful fortranslation purposes, since definiteness may betriggered not only by an NP, but also by apredication as a whole.
As will be shownbelow, the rules for discovering co-referencehave to be formulated in different waysdepending on which kind of referent (nominalreferents or events) is involved.Referent tracking and generation ofdefiniteness valuesA model for generating definiteness cannot bebased on the simplistic principle: if an NP witha given meaning has been translated previously(in the cm'rent ext), provide it with the value"definite"; otherwise, treat it as indefinite.
Inorder to instantiate the definiteness value, wehave to investigate the internal structure of theNP, the interplay between the current NP andthe other syntactic onstituents of the analyzedsentence as well as the relations between thecurrent NP and the previously translated part ofthe text.The prel iminary procedure insert ingdefiniteness values used in the RG-model con-rains the :following stages:A.
Investigating the functional representation fthe first sentence of the input text in order tocreate a "preliminary discourse frame".B.
Storing the descriptions of noun phrases(including their referent numbers) and repre-sentations of "events" in a data base.C.
Comparing the representations of nounphrases in the current sentence with the storedinformation in order to discover possible co-reference; storing new "events" and new"nominal referents", if any.The right noun phrase form is then generatedaccording to language specific rules - e.g.
ruleswhich do not allow NPs like *the my book orSwedish *rain boken (my book+def) and rulesinserting possessive pronouns before nounsdenoting close relationship, like "brother","neighbour" etc.
A Russian sentence likeJavstretil soseda (I met neighbour) is translatedinto Swedish asJag trgiffade rain granneI met my neighbour.Stage A includes ubprocedures like:- checking if the current sentence is a predica-tive construction as "X is a great linguist"; ifyes - the referent representation f X has to beprovided with the attribute meaning "great lin-guist" before storing in order to enable co-reference identification i  the later part of thetext, where X may be referred to by an NP like"this great linguist".- checking whether the sentence containsspecific time and/or place adverbials, whetherthe current NP contains any attributes whichmay be interpreted as definiteness indices andwhether there are any constituents havingclearly specific reference.
The aim is to classifythe current NP and the whole predication as totheir reference: if the sentence vokes many134 2specific concepts and/or the NP containsrefercn(:e restricting attributes, we may assume,that the event referred to is highly specific, andthat the probability for definite articles maybecome greater (if no counterindices can befound).
The results are not always plausibleand can probably be improved by more workon topic - comment relations.
Currently, whentranslating a sentence fi'agment like:v&ra ve~erom Michail Gorba~evyesterday evening Michail Gorbachevvydvinul predlofenie oh...made proposal aboutthe program inserts tile vahle "prodcf"(probably definite) in the representation f thenoun meaning "proposal", as the discourseframe is highly specific: it contains a specifictime value, a specific subject referent and aspecific:ation of the noun meaning "proposal"by means of a prepositional phrase.
Thus, theSwedish translation version below gets greaterpreference:igdr kv4ill lade Michail Gorbatjovyesterday evening put Michail Gorbachevfram ,/~Wslaget ore...forward proposal+def aboutalthough many native speakers of Swedishwould prefer the alternative variant:igdr kvOll lade Michail Gorbau'evyesterday evening put Michail Gorbachevfram ett f/Srslag ore...forward a proposal aboutThe second wuiant is of course not excluded bythe subprocedure.
Nevertheless, even if thefirst output is not always the most preferredone, checking the degree of specificity is oftenuseful, tf we deleted this part of the translationprocedure, every NP in the first sentence of atext would be understood as indefinite,something which would lead to many "strange"translations (a professor at a depar#Jzelzt oflinguistics at a universiO, qf Lund).If the first sentence in the text does notcontain any def in i teness indices,  thedefiniteness slot remains anonymous and getstile default value "indef(inite)" during thegeneration process, if no target-specific rulesprevent it,The information supported by the sentenceis stored in two lists: a "nominal referent list" -for characteristics of those NPs which havebeen interpreted as establishing nominalreferents, and an "event list", whererepresentations of predications (including thoseexpressed by verbal nouns) are placed.
Eachnew NP to be translated is now compared withthe stored information - the aim is to discoverpossible definiteness triggers.
The simplestcase of definiteness triggering is that of nominalco-reference (d~e current NP points out anominal referent which has been introducedbefore).
Nevertheless, a procedure handlingthis "simple" case must be quite elaborated, asit has to cover at least the following cases:- co-reference between NPs with identical headnouns: here, the program must check if thecurrent NP contains attributes which excludeco-reference with a previously translated NPhaving the same head-meaning code, In asequence like A boy played with a little dog.77~en, a big dog came the two dogs must not beinterpreted as co-referential.
This is achieved bya subprocedure "attribute_conflict", whichcompares the attributes of the NPs involved.- co-reference between synonyms or between ahyponym and a hyperonym: the program mustbe able to trigger the value "prodef" if thecurrent NP evokes a concept which is not more3 135restricted than and not incompatible with apreviously stored referent.
Thus, the strings myold teacher and man should be identified as co-referential in a sequence like: I met my oldteacher.
The man was drunk; but not in I met aman.
My old teacher was drunk.. Furthermore,if the current NP refers to a set of objects, wehave to check if there are at least two previouslyestablished referents which - n'eated as elementsof a set - constitute a potentially co-referentialset (cases like: A boy met a girl.
The childrenran home).
For this purpose, recursivePROLOG-predicates earching for possiblehyponyms in the referent list are used.
One ofthe simpler versions of the predicate for co-reference discover, (the one handling cases likeboy+gir l=chi ldren+def)  is formulated asfollows:possible_coref(m(A,pl),Rlist):-hyponyms(m(A,sg),\[HlT\],Rlist).where m(A,pl) is the meaning code of thecurrent noun, Rlist is a list containing codes ofpreviously translated noun phrases and thepossible hyponyms of the singular formmeaning A are stored in the list \[HIT\].
Thewhole rule is to be read as: a plural noun withthe meaning code m(A,pl) may co-refer with aset containing referents of previously men-tioned NPs, if at least two previously men-tioned nouns can be interpreted as hyponyms ofthe singular form of the cun'ent noun.
Thepredicate "hyponyms" utilizes the semanticfeatures stored in lexical entries in order toestablish a hierarchy between meaning codes.- co-reference between evaluating and non-evaluating expressions - as in the followingfragment of a Pravda-notice:Israeli airplanes staged three bomb-attacks onLebanese territory today.Fifteen persons were killed as a result of thebarbaric action of the air pirates.The evaluation of israeli airplanes as "air-pirates" depends obviously on the sender'sattitude, and such aspects as the sender'spolitical and emotional preferences are notaccessible to the program.
But evaluatingcomponents seem not to restrict the potentialreference of an NP in a purely linguistic way(any human being may be referred to by an NPlike this fool).
Therefore, we may assume, thatif the general condition for possible co-reference (not incompatible and not morerestricted) is fulfi l led after extraction ofevaluat ing e lements from the semanticcharacteristics of the current NP, definitenessmay be triggered.
In the example above, afterdeleting evaluations from the lexical descriptionof the entity "air-pirate", the featurescorresponding to the concepts "airplane" and"pilot" remain.
Consequently, co-referencewith "israeli airplanes" is not excluded.- whole - part relations: in cases like car -engine etc.
definiteness hould be triggered.Formulating a PROLOG-rule handling this kindof relation is not a difficult task - the problem isto create an appropriate data base (it would benecessary to include much encyclopaedicknowledge in the lexicon).Another type of definiteness triggeringrules applies in the case of co-referencebetween sequences alluding to 'evenls", as inthe following example:An unidentified submarine followed a Swedishtrawler.The hunt went on for about two hours.The first step is to check whether the currentnoun (here: hunt ) may be interpreted as havingan "event-referent" - the information is136 4provided in the lexicon.
Then, a specific rulefor possible event-co-reference applies.
Itwould not be sufficient o compare the semm~ticrepresentation f "hunt" with that of the finiteverb ("follow") according to the previouslyoutlined principle: "not incompatible and notmore restricted".
"Hunting" is obviously amore specific concept han following (huntingis a special type of following).
As the NPmeaning "hunt" refers to an event, we have totreat it as a predication and compare it with thepreviously mentioned predication as a whole.The event- l ist  contains at this point arepresentation formulated as:e(hunt,m'gs(r( 1 ,submarine ,unidentified),r(2,trawler, swedish)))The event referred to by hunt  has nosyntactically represented m'guments - before co-reference checking it gets a representation like:e(hunt,args(_,_)).
Co-reference seems to beallowed by the following principle: a verbalnoun may co-refer with a prcvious predication,if it is semantically not incompatible with thepredicate and if the argulnents of the verbalnoun are either not specified or co-referentialwith the arguments of the previously storedpredicate.
A PROLOG-implementation f thisrule may have the following shape (simplified):possible_coref(NewEvent,OldEvent) :-NewEvent= e(m(Mean,verbal),args(A 1,A2)),OldEvent = e(Pred,args(A3,A4)),eventlist(Elist), member(OldEvent,Elist),not(incompatible(Mean,Pred)),(var(A 1 );possible_coref(A 1 ,A3)),(var(A4);possible_coref(A2,A4)).The ease of "pseudo-ob jects"In the example above, both syntactic argumentsof the transitive verb were clearly referential -they pointed out specific objects.
But there m'ecases in which the syntactic omplement of averb does not allude to a referent - though theform of the complement is nominal.
Thedistinction is manifested clearly in Swedish,where the stress pattern of tile string verb +complement varies depending on whether tilecomplement is referential or non-referential.
Intile second case, the stress pattern is identicalwith the one of particle verbs.
Furthermore, tilecomplement cannot take relative clauses:i. han hall tel._2/he made speechii.
* han hall ta__I sore var finthe made speech that was fineIf hall takes an object proper, as in iii., thestress pattern changes:iii.han hall ett (ldngt) tal sore vat.tinthe nmde a (long) speech that was fineThe unability versus ability of taking relativeclauses is highly significant and can be taken asa criterion tbr referent establishment.
Accordingto RG (Sigurd 1989), the head noun, therelative pronoun and the relativized (lacking)constituent in the subordinate (defective) clauseare considered as alluding to the same referent.The ungrammaticality of relative clauses otherthan sentence relatMzing ones can be explainedby the fact that the "pseudo-object" lal lacks areferent of its own.
The only accessible referentwhich can be common for the relative pronounand the lacldng constituent in the relative clauseis the referent of the whole predication - as iniv."iv.
hart h61l tal vilket var ,tinthe made speech which was fineVilket is the only Swedish pronoun used forsentence relativization.
The sentence above maybe paraphrased as: det var ji'tzt art hart h?~l!
tal('it was fine that he made a speech') or as art5 137han h611 tal var tint ('that he made a speechwas fine') but not as *han h6ll tal sore var .tint('he made a speech that was fine').Subsequently, components which cannotcontain relative clauses are treated as incapableof establishing referents of their own.
In thereferent tracking procedure, they are interpretedas components of the verbal part of an event.The translation problem arising here is causedby the fact that the distinction betweenreferential objects and "pseudo-objects" i  notmanifested in Russian.
Both v. and vi.
arepossible:v. on proiznes re~'he "made" speechvi.
on proiznes (dlinnuju) reg', kotorajahe made (long) speech thatnikomt~ ne ponravilas'nobody+dat not likedv.
may thus be translated into Swedish either ashart h61l tal or hart h6ll ett tal..
This translationprocedure preserves the anabiquity.
If there areneither relative clauses nor other attributesbefore/after a foma which may be interpreted asa "pseudo-object", and if there are nocounter indices (e.g.clearly anaphoricexpressions in the next following part of thetext) the non-referential interpretation ispreferred, but the second alternative (han h61lett tal ) is not excluded.SummaryThe model and procedures discussed above areattempts to utilize text semantic restrictions inmachine translation.
The current version of theprogram covers quite a large repertoire ofdifferent types of definiteness-triggers andhandles generation of correct forms of "pseudo-objects" in phrases like "play the piano", "playfootboll" etc.
quite successfully.
Nevertheless,there is a need for further study - among otherproblems, on the "life-span" of discoursereferents and on cases where NPs traditionally(i.e.
according to Karttunen 1976) treated asnon-referential (e.g.
predicatives) allow certaininstances of definite anaphora (Frarud 1986).The semantic representations of lexical entriesrequire elaboration, and storing non-linguisticknowledge necessary for appropriatedefiniteness triggering is a problem.
Currently,the program works quite efficiently whentranslating short text fragments, where thenumber of discourse referents i  not too great.References:Frarud, K. 1986.
The introduction andmaintenance of discourse referents.
In:Papers from the 9th Scandinavian Confer.enc___eeOf Linguistics, 11-122.Karttunen, L. 1976.
Discourse referents.
In:Syntax and Semantics, vol.
7,383-386.
NewYork: Academic Press.Sidner, C. 12.
1983.
Focusing in thecomprehension f definite anaphora.
In:Brady, M & M. C. Berwick: Computati0.nalmodels of discourse, 267-330, Massachusetts.Sigurd, B.
1987.
Referent Grammar.A Generalized Phrase Structure Grammar withbuilt-in referents.Studia Linguistica 41:2,,115-135.Sigurd, B.
& B. Gawrofiska-Werngren.
1988.The Potential of Swetra - A Multilanguage MTSystem.
Comrmters and Translation 3,237-250.Sigurd, B.
1989.
A referent grammaticalanalysis of relative clauses.
Acta Linguis!
:ic__~aHafniensia 21:2, 95-115.138 6
