COMPUTATIONAL L INGUISTICS IN 1990Hans Kar lgrenKVAL Research Inst i tutefor Informat ion ScienceSkeppsbron 26S-Il l  30 Stockholm, Swedenco l ing@com.qz.seColing's existence can today be measured in(reasonable fractions of) centuries.
After twelvewel l - renowned international conferences arranged bythe International Committee for Computat ionalL inguist ics and after an increasing number ofpubl icat ions and local meetings dedicated to thetopic one might assume that all of us who carewould by now know exactly what computat ionall inguistics is about.
We do not.
Not only do wedif fer sl ightly on where we want to place theemphasis, the concept also evolves with each of usin the vague, successive way in which other wordsin human language so fruitful ly keep changing.Computat ional  l inguist ics is what we make it.No doubt computational l inguist ics is aboutcomputat ion and linguistics, with an emphasis on'and'.
The key concepts are computation, notcomputer, and linguistics, not language processing.All agree that the scope does not extend tostudies, however good, about computat ion applied tolanguage material unless some l inguist ic insight isat issue or about computer support for l inguist icsunless the computational procedure has somenon-tr ivial  l inguist ic aspect.What, then, is the core of the matter?
I cangive only a personal answer; let me do that.Thereafter I shall comment upon the harvest ofpapers offered to Coling 90.A great goal is to model computat ional ly  humanl inguistic behaviour as a manner to better under-stand how we speak and listen, write and read,\[earn and unlearn, understand, store and re-structure information.
An ult imate quest ion is towhat extent these our most human act iv it ies can be~educed to mechanist ic operations: by teachingmachines we can recognize what in us is machine-like.
Whenever we can mechanize something whichseems deeply human, we gather urgent, oftenpainful, knowledge about ourselves; whenever wefail, we may learn even more.
It is not only inthermodynamics that the great fai lures mark thegreat advances.
Cf.
the col loquium on The Un-f inished Language.Some col leagues would say computat ionalmodel l ing of human l inguist ic behaviour is thegoal.
I think it is going too far to require thatcomputat ional  models of human language must needsbe valid as possible \[future components of\] modelsof the human intellect; that is a moot point of a:cather remote phi losophical  nature since we can asyet rarely ever verify claims about the similar ityor analogy between the working of our models andhuman "processing".One theme which I see as crucial in computa-tional l inguist ics at this part icular  point of timeis machine learning; cf.
my portion of the Summing--Up-And-Look-Ahead session at Coling 88 in Buda-pest, subsequently publ ished along with the other~{tatements of that session in the Prague BulletinNo.
51, which was intended as a seed for COLING-90.Model l ing learuing is interest ing in itselfbut model ing language user's learning and adapta-I:ion also attacks one of the most salient featuresof natural languages and one which so far isconspicuously absent from invented languages: the:intriguing feature that human users understandutterances and texts by means of knowledge aboutthe language system and that such knowledge issuccessively acquired from the utterances and textswe understand.To get a relevant model for human l inguist iccompetence we must teach machines to learn: toupdate their grammar and lexicon from the verytexts on which they apply them, treating the textsas operands for the analyzers and s imultaneously asoperators that modify the analyzers.
It is mybelief that there are basic procedures, as yetpoorly understood, which are common to languagechange over longer periods, language acquis it ion byan individual and the mutual adaptat ion betweendialogue part ic ipants or the reader's adaptat ion tothe author during and possibly merely for thepurpose of the current dialogue or text.The important successful attempts to handlevery large text corpora and huge lexical data basesmight obscure this crucial issue and postpone itssolution: I feel uneasy about some impressiveanalyses and syntheses based on sub-sub-subcategor-izations of words and situations in some microsl iceof our world.
Close-ups on some instances areindispensible in serious empirical research, butcontinued fact col lect ing and algor i thm bui ldingdoes not necessari ly bring us general izableinsights or general izable procedures.
The con-clusion when we have succeeded in mapping somedetail, which turned out to be more complex than wecould imagine, should not always be to findresources, ours or somebody else's, for every otherdetail  to be mapped with equal precision; but tomodel the procedure for such mapping.Details must be seen in a context and Ibelieve that the most fruitful context at the verypresent is that of learning and adaptation.Art i f ic ial  intel l igence does study machinelearning.
But I expect that it is from linguistics,with its tradit ion of studying change and with anobject which so obviously does not wait till thenext authorized release before it changes, that amajor break-through will come for l inguist icadaptat ion and for learning at large.None of what I have now said should be takento mean that applied computat ional  l inguist ics isunworthy of discussion at Coling.
Appl icat ions canhelp us ask new questions, and the successes and,even more, the failures in practical tasks give usvery valuable feedback, confirming and discon-firming our beliefs.
But it should be clearlyunderstood that practical appl icat ion is not theult imate test of the value of what we are doing: Ithink it is absurd to see, say, the needs foroff ice automation as a just i f icat ion for our studyof human language.Thus, if somebody would have put together anautomatic translator, actual ly producing readableoutput when given arbitrary economic or technicalprose, the world would not have become a verydi f ferent place, although quite a few organizat ionswould have run more smoothly: the insights gatheredfrom trying to translate mechanical ly  by meredict ionary and syntax provide us with essentialknowledge of translation, of language and hence ofourselves.
In the case of machine translation,therefore, I prefer papers which i l luminate somefeature of the task of translat ing which they claimto be (un)programmable to those which demonstratehew well their tool works.An international conference can be seen as ast imulus-response sequence.
The init iators ofColing emit a stimulus to a wide community ofpeople who probe human language - and such as donot know they do - and get a response we can onlypart ia l ly  control: we set things in motion by97announcing the conference, we aim at an intendedtarget area by f i l tering the contr ibut ions offeredand we can to some little extent guide the missi lesunderway by giving direct ions and hints to theauthors, speakers and discussants.How do we judge the result now when thecontr ibut ions have arr ived?
It is obviouslypremature to answer the question how Coling 90 willhave amended our concept of computat ional  l inguist-ics or even to evaluate the papers, since much oftheir value lies in the debate and protests theyprovoke.
We hope the readers will d isagree on anumber of points argued in these volumes.
In anycase, there is a certain incubation time for reallynew ideas to have an effect.
But some first-impression comments from the only one so far whohas read - though in several cases certainly notyet digested - all the papers, those publ ished hereand those which could not be accommodated, couldmake the col lect ion appear less amorphous to somereader, whether or not he sympathizes with theviews proferred.
See, however, my attempt at aselective subject index.I.
The first observat ion about this year's Colingpapers is that there are many of them.
Computa-tional l inguist ics is no more an interdisc ip l inaryoddity.
It has grown into a discipline.2.
The papers are on a whole on a high level.
Forpurely quant itat ive reasons we could accommodateless than one in three.
We have avoided to say thatwe haw9 rejected the rest, since many of them areval id and interesting contr ibutions to the fieldand would have been accepted for Coling had therebeen more time and space in our conference week.The quality was disturbingly good from theimmediate viewpoint of the referees, who have had amore demanding task than foreseen.
Unlike what hashappened at earl ier Coling conferences, very fewcontr ibutions could be dismissed because they weretrivial computer izat ions of l inguist ic studies orsoftware engineering achievements with amateurishl inguist ic assumptions.
We have seen very fewpapers this time which report on the rediscovery ofthe fact that nouns forms in some language canconveniently be categorized in number, gender andcase or which specify file structure and computa-tional environment while leaving the l inguist icissues undiscussed.
Most computational l inguiststoday know what they are talking about and takeappropriate professional hardware and softwaretools for granted.3.
Like other establ ished domains, computationall inguist ics risks to become isolationistic.
By farthe most common critical comment by referees on anycategory of papers was that the authour hadoverseen or left unmentioned relevant earl ier work.It is a symptom of what Bertrand Russel cal ledProvincia l ism in Time if for a topic of a generalnature the list of references includes only itemsfrom the last decade.
Such a narrow perspect ive maybe natural if one discusses technical i t ies in arecently presented formalism or some implementat iondetails, but not if one investigates, say, dia-logue, text planning, idioms, anacelutha or thelexicological  treatment of hapax legomena or non-canonical forms.4.
The papers submitted to Coling 90 report ons ignif icant advances on many frontiers.4.1 Much work has been done on the ref inement andelaborat ion of the conceptual apparatus.
I do notyet venture to point at innovation which will turnout to have provided real ly important new tools.It is conspicuous that the revival of categorialgrammar continues, that uni f icat ion is a predomi-nant procedure that government-binding designs arein vogue - or let me more respectful ly say haveproven fruitful - and that two-level models areused to such an extent and to a number of purposeswhich far exceeds mere pol iteness to our hosts.Tree-adjoining grammars seem to make some problemsmuch more easy to treat.Experiments with connect ionist  models are alsopromising; it would be unfair to require that theyshould be more than that.4.2 The advances beyond full stop continue, thoughperhaps more laboriously than one might have hoped.Most attempts concern cohesion between neighbouringsentences - such as anaphoric phenomena - butinterest ing results have also been gained ingenerat ive form for larger structures (textplanning).
- Styl ist ic studies are rare as areother studies l inking to l i terary theory.
Anattempt to identify text topics and one on conceptanalysis and terminology address issues direct lyrelevant for document retrieval and topic analysis.4.3 New terr itor ies have been invaded in a moreimmediate sense.
We have the pleasure of seeingcontr ibut ions from geographical and l inguist icregions from where we earl ier had no reports.
Thus,we see an encouragingly large number of papers fromthe Chinese-speaking parts of the world.This expansion also means that our l inguist icmodels and accepted ideas have been put to a teston more languages than before.
The predominance ofEngl ish examples in l inguistic research wor ld-wideintroduces a bias, the amount of which we cannot,by nature, possibly estimate but which should worryus.4.4 Computat ional  l inguist ics is moving out of thelaboratories.
Today's computat ional  faci l i t ies -fast on-l ine operation, large data-bases, con-venient user- interfaces at prices afordable even tofront- l ine research institutes - have made experi-ments much more life-like.
Performance and eleganceas reported in the Project Notes are often impress-ive.The abi l i ty to handle real ist ic vocabular ieshas led to a revived interest in lexicology.
Inparticular, the knowledge accumulated in dict ion-aries for human use is being recycled by usingthese dict ionar ies as raw data supplies, which withsome ingenuity are automatical ly exploited, or, toa smaller extent, as sources of know-how andl inguist ic insight.While the translat ion tools are coming muchcloser to real life the pretensions have becomemore modest and more specific: systems are nolonger designed to be omnivorous, when completed,but dedicated to part icular kinds of texts andsituations.
Ironically, the success of suchintel l igent translat ion systems is almost cannibal-istic: the most renowned successful computer izedtranslat ion system, of weather reports, is reportedto develop into a text generator.
Is it so that thevery mapping of the languiges and the subject-matter which are required to make translat ionprogrammable also threatens to make it unnecessary?4.5 Linguists have l ifted their gaze to see beyondthe wr i t ten text.
We catch a gl impse of themult imedia society in, say, a report on automaticgenerat ion of an animated presentat ion from awritten instruction manual.
On the whole, however,image processing is not yet part of computat ionall inguistics.The interest in speech processing - bothanalysis and synthesis - is increasing.
Somereports on ambitious investments in this field wasleft out of Coling 90 because the l inguist ic toolsappl ied - or shall we say as yet appl icable?
- wererather unsophist icated.
More interdisc ip l inaryefforts within computational l inguist ics may provefruitful in a near future.
- It may be relevanthere to observe that while there are a few, notmany, contr ibut ions on phonology, there is stillnone on phonetics.4.6 Some ventures beyond the map are reported:attempts to make an automatic system cope reason-ably with phenomena which are in some senseunexpected, except that the system was designed toexpect unexpected things to happen.It is in the nature of things that some ofthese attempts are as yet more speculative; cf.
thecol loquium on "The Unf inished Language".98Automat ic  acqu is i t ion  of l ingu is t i c  knowledgeis a topic of several  papers, par t i cu la r ly  forextens ion  of the lexicon, but a lso other  learn ingprocedures  such as automat ic  der ivat ion  of rulesfrom corpora  and the success ive  accumulat ion  ofknowledge,  in a "knowledge base", for t rans la t ion .A very gra t i fy ing  extens ion  is the ana lys i s  offau l ty  input.
Or let us say non-canon ica l  inputs ince it is nobody 's  faul t  that real  persons  do notcomply  exact ly  wi th any canon.
Not only  are'robust' systems necessary  to make computat iona lexper iments  more rea l i s t i c  (and man-mach inein teract ion  in pract ica l  systems more human) butthe under ly ing  d i s t rus t  in immacu la te  prec i s ion  inhuman behav iour  has also theoret ica l  impl icat ions .Very ser ious impl icat ions,  poss ib ly :  if there ismore to it: than can be handled by a l i t t le  normal -iz ing f i lter, the doubt fu l  old d i s t inc t ion  betweencompetence  and per fo rmance  must  be revised.4.7 Concur rent ly  wi th the renewed in teres t  ind i scovery  procedures  s ta t i s t i ca l  p rocedures  havebecome frequent.
Rare ly  have we seen so manynumbers  in a co l lec t ion  of Co l ing  papers  as thistime.
An egocent r i c  remark: as one who spent  agood deal of energy in ear l ie r  years to promote:3tatistical methods in l ingu is t i cs  (and pub l i sh inga sc ient i f i c  journal, SMIL, for the purpose)  Icannot  but feel p leased at this deve lopment ,  eventhough there is no ind icat ion  of any causalre la t ionsh ip  between those e f for ts  and the present\[:rend.Unfor tunate ly ,  the methodological  level  of thelaajority of the quant i ta t ive  studies in l ingu is t i cstoday is no h igher  than in s ta t i s t i ca l  l i ngu is t i cs30 years ago.
L i t t le  ef forts  are spent  on the non-t r iv ia l  task of c reat ing  appropr ia te  s tochast i cmodels  for l ingu is t ics .
And, qu i te  unnecessar i ly ,the accumulated  knowhow of the s ta t i s t i ca l  p ro fess -ion is d is regarded:  'probabi l i ty '  and ' (relat ive)f requency'  are often used ind isc r iminate ly  assynonyms, a d i scuss ion  of es t imates  and sampl ing ismost ly  consp icuous ly  absent  and the reader  issupp l ied  wi th  un in terpretab le  percentages .This methodo log ica l  weakness  is p robab ly  duenot only  to an unders tandab le  unacqua in tance  withthe trade.
There is a lso a cu l tura l  barr ier :Computat iona l  l ingu is t i cs  has torn down an impor t -ant sect ion  of the wal l  between mathemat ics  andt rad i t iona l  humani t ies  but has inher i ted  another,that between mathemat ics  and stat is t ics .
Thoughtheoret i ca l  s tat i s t ics  is a respected  part  ofmathemat ics ,  very many top- leve l  mathemat ic ians  andlog ic ians  remain  un in teres ted  in s tochast i ca lmodels,  un fami l ia r  wi th  s ta t i s t i ca l  p rac t i ce  and atbot tom host i le  towards tile under ly ing  a t t i tude  tolook for a we l l -mot ivated  approx imat ion  - to l ivewi th uncer ta in ty  instead of wa i t ing  for an ideall~olution.
We need more in terd isc ip l inar i ty !5.
To character i ze  computat iona l  l i ngu is t i cs  ofi\[990 we must  a lso make a few remarks,  necessar i l yincomplete  and subject ive,  about  what  is lacking.5.1 Computer  s imulat ions,  as wel l  known in, say,modern  physics,  are rare.
Of course, the who le  ofour f ie ld may be seen as a k ind of s imulat ion.
Avery hea l thy  trend is to make exper iments  morerea l i s t i c  - w i th  more than a toy d ic t ionary  and ares t r i c ted  grammar  and wi th  some amount  of ext ra-l ingu is t i c  knowledge.
But the oppos i te  t rend isabsent:  to s impl i fy  down to the barest  minimum,i.e., not only to use res t r i c ted  grammars  but toin tent iona l ly  make false assumpt ions ,  as when aphys ic i s t  descr ibes  a gas as a dozen h igh lyidea l i zed  part ic les .
The rea l i s t i c  exper iments  aremore fu l l y - f ledged than a few years ago, but theidea l i zed  exper iments  have *lot become simpler.I shal l  not e laborate  this po int  here but Ibe l ieve  we are sti l l  burdened by the humanis t i cde l ight  in complex i ty  and crav ing for fu l le rknowledge  - and lack of the mathemat ic ian 's  de l ightin f ru i t fu l  s impl i f i cat ion.
We have more bar r ie rsto break down: in this case the moral  bar r ie r  thatkeeps some of us from work ing  with in tent iona lfa l s i f i cat ion .5.2 In spite of the in terest  in d i scovery  pro-cedures,  computer -suppor ted  fac t f ind ing  seems rare.Thus, for t rans lat ion,  more and more schemes areproposed  on how to make mach ines  do th ings whichneed to be done but very l i t t le  in teres t  has beenshown in invest igat ing  sys temat ica l ly  what  need tobe done, for ins tance by record ing  in some morethan super f i c ia l  manner  what  humans do.5.3 Language change has been left  out of d i scuss -ion, except  for comments  ill An Unf in i shed  Language.We have seen noth ing about  h i s to r i ca l  l ingu is t ics ;not even on d iachron ica l  phono logy  which  seemedpromis ing  some years ago.
I could think of no otherreason than the inher i ted  soc io log ica l  s t ructure  inthe scho lar ly  community,  and I expect  greatprogress  when top competence  in h i s to r i ca l  l ingu-ist ics  is combined with the ins ights  and tools ofcomputat iona l  l ingu is t ics .5.4 For s imi lar  reasons,  probably,  we have seennoth ing in the ph i lo log ica l  f ield.
The cha l leng ingf ie ld  of manuscr ip t  reconst ruct ion ,  for wh ich  wewould  by now have bet ter  tools, has a t t rac ted  nocomputat iona l  l ingu is t  this time, nor has authour -ship a t t r ibut ion .
We have a l ready  remarked  on theemptyness  of the border land  between l ingu is t i c  andl i te rary  studies.5.5 No contr ibut ion,  as we a l ready  noted above,took up a phonet ica l  topic.
This  gap is so muchmore remarkab le  as pl~onetic research  was heav i lycomputer i zed  at an ear ly  stage.6.
F ina l ly  a deeply  felt  appeal  to all Co l ingpar t i c ipants  and all more - than-casua l  readers  ofthis publ icat ion:  Do not forget  that we are in thehumani t ies!
Which  research  could be more humanis t i cthan examin ing  the f ront ier  between what  in us isman and what  in us is mach ine when we per fo rm ourmost  human act iv i t ies?Many papers conta in  a trace of bad conscience:we know we should de l iver  app l i cab le  resul ts  whichjust i fy  what  we cost now and if soc iety  only a l lowsus t ime for bas ic  p re l iminar ies  we shall  cer ta in lydel iver.This apo loget i c  a t t i tude is groundless ,un jus t i f i ed  and un just l f iab le .
Your a l leg iance  isnot p r imar i l y  to investors.
True, if you haveaccepted  funding to per form pract ica l  tasks, youmust  try to l ive up to your promises.
But most ofthe resources  ded icated  to onr f ie ld do not comefrom those who represent  future users or uses.In par t i cu la r  this is true for the resourceswhich have gone into Col ing.
The Co l ing  conferencesare a r ranged by the In ternat iona l  Commit tee  forComputat iona l  L ingu is t i cs  which never rece ived  apenny from anybody and owes obed ience  to nopo l i t i ca l  or commerc ia l  body, nat iona l  or inter-nat ional .
The support  prov ided to each conferenceby governments  and industry  is we lcome but re-presents  a minute  por t ion  of the total e f for t  inreal terms, as do the par t i c ipat ion  fees.TO take one detai l  of wh ich  I have f i r s t -handknowledge,  the manhours  spent by the referees,  atleast  three of which examined and commented  uponeach paper  submitted, wh ich  in turn outnumberedthose now pub l i shed  by a factor  greater  than three,is a mi l l i on -do l la r  a f fa i r  if eva luated  at marketpr ice for comparab le  consu l ta t ions  (an eva luat ionwhich  admi t ted ly  requi res  some st retch of imagina-tion); not one referee even asked whether  he or shewou ld  be paid or get a reduced par t i c ipat ion  fee.All resources  for the preparat ion,  work done by thein ternat iona l  committee,  our F inn ish  hosts andf i rs t  of all by the wri ters,  (and where  my own sixmanmouths,  unpa id  but h igh ly  rewarding,  is a smallt r i f le  by compar ison) ,  absence (from product ion?
)at home, travel  and accommodat ion  costs and allsecondary  and ter t iary  expendi ture,  all these makea conference  of this k ind a mul t i -mi l l i on  venturewhatever  cur rency  you choose to count  in, and agreat  respons ib i l i ty .
These resources  - wh ich  ifspent  for other  causes in 1990 represent  a powerwhich  could readi ly  have rescued v i l l age fu l s  ofs tarv ing people  from a pa infu l  death, boughtthousands of minors  free f rom being sent to sexualslavery, saved large areas of v i rg in  forests  frorabeing forever  devasta ted  or bought  some under -p r iv i leged  country  an extra submar ine  to f ight  itsenemies - were suppl ied to us for a cause.
Theywere not in tended as subs id ies  to the computerindustry  or to the admin is t ra t ions ,  wh ich  can nodoubt  a f ford  to pay for the deve lopment  they need.So: Do not t r iv ia l \ ]ze  your  pursui t !
You havemore ser ious bus iness  to do than bus iness.99
