THE GENERATION OF H IGH-LEVEL  STRUCTUREFOR EXTENDED EXPLANATIONSDavid J. Mooney (mooney@dewey.udel.edu)Sandra Carberry (carberry@dewey.udel.edu)Kathleen F. McCoy (mccoy~dewey.udel.edu)Department of Computer and Information SciencesUniversity of DelawareNewark, Delaware 19716ABSTRACT 2This paper analyzes the structural features ofnaturally-occurring extended explanations and ar-gues that current generation methodologies are in-adequate for determining high-level structure.
Itpresents a computational model based on the hy-pothesis that high-level structure - composed of aunifying framework and its associated basic blocks -can be determined by bottom-up rocesses that at-tempt to satisfy speaker, listener, and compositionalgoals, after which top-down strategies can be used toorganize the material about the selected framework.1 INTRODUCTIONIn this paper, we describe the structural character-istics of extended, planned 1 explanations involvingcomplex physical devices and present a computa-tional model for generating such explanations.
Ourinvestigation suggests that the organizational strate-gies currently employed for structuring short expla-nations are inadequate for generating the high-levelstructure characteristic of that found in naturally-occurring extended explanations, which typically re-quire several pages of text.
Our computational modelis based on the hypothesis that text structure is notcompletely recursive as others have claimed (\[GS86\],\[Rei78\], \[Po186\], \[MT88\]), but rather that the high-level structure of extended explanations is deter-.mined by processes eparate from those which or-ganize text at lower levels.Section 2.1 provides a brief overview of currentmodels for structuring text, followed by a descriptionof the basic block, the unit of discourse on which ourmodel is based, in Section 2.2.
Section 2.3 describesthe characteristics of high-level structure of extendedexplanations, followed by a description of our strat-egy for generating this structure in Section 3; a com-plete description is contained in \[MCM89\].1Emphasis is placed on planned to distinguish these ex-planations from discourse in which the material is developedmutually by the participants as the discourse progresses.276THE BAS IC  BLOCK MODEL OFEXTENDED DISCOURSEill order to generate an extended explanation, a nat-ural language system must determine tile basic con-tent to be conveyed; the next step is to cohesivelyorganize this material.
As anyone who has had toorganize large amounts of information into a coher-ent text can attest, there are many possible combi-nations of that material, some more cohesive thanothers.
Frequently, deciding how to orgauize a largebody of material is more difficult than determiningwhat to include.
Our research is concerned with theidentification of a coherent unifying framework aboutwhich an extended explanation can be organized andthe criteria for selecting from among several frame-works when more than one viable alternative xists.2.1 OTHER APPROACHESTEXT STRUCTURETO2.1.1 COMPUTATIONALAPPROACHESA number of researchers (e.g., \[GSS6\], \[MT88\],\[Rei7S\], \[PolS6\]) have argued that discom-se is con>posed of hierarchically structured segments and thatthis structure is completely recursive in nature.Two general methodologies have been applied tothe structuring of explanations: schemas (\[McK85\],\[McC85\], \[earS7\]) and rhetorical structure theory(RST) (\[HMS9\], \[HovS8\], \[MPS8\], \[MSSS\]).A schema is a discourse strategy that captures atypical pattern of discourse associated with a partic-ular discourse purpose, (e.g., providing an analogyor evidence).
Schemas can be thought of as tem-plates composed of an ordered sequence of rhetoricalpredicates, which"characterize the predicating acts a speakermay use and delineate tile structural rela-tion between propositions in a text."
~'2From \[McK85\] page 9These predicates are intended to capture the struc-tural relations that hold between clauses in a text.The predicates are used recursively, capturing thestructure of text at any level.RST, developed by Mann and Thompson(\[MT88\]), was originally a tool for the analysis oftext.
RST claims that, except for a small numberof highly-stylized forms, all coherent texts have anRST ,decomposition.
RST posits a small number ofrelations, comparable to McKeown's rhetorical pred-icates, that exist between segments of text.
Becauseeach relation has associated with it well-defined in-tended effects and conditions necessary for it to hold,RST lends itself well to a generation methodologybased on a top-down, hierarchical planning formal-ism (\[Sac77\]).
Thus, like MeKeown's rhetorical pred--icates, RST claims to account for the structure oftext at any level of the discourse hierarchy.While these methods have proven to be effectivefor organizing short pieces of text, we maintain thatthey are inadequate for generating the characteristicstructure of extended explanations at the level of theprimary segments, which occupy the first level of thediscourse hierarchy.
We contend that the character-istics exhibited by the primary segments of extendedexplanations, to be described in the next section,cannot be captured by recursive processes.
Rather,we maintain that high-level structure must be gener--ated 'by a separate, bottom-up process, after whichrecursive organizational strategies can be applied atlower levels.2.1.2 RHETORICRhetoric, the formal study of the art of good writ-ing, provides general strategies for organizing textat a high level that are absent from the computa-tional models.
Analysis - "the method of explana-tion whereby a subject is divided into its separatecomponent parts ''3 - is possibly the most instru-mental of these strategies.
There are no hard-and-fast rules for determining what constitutes an ap-propriate analysis of a subject.
As \[WA60\] observes,a subject may be classified in as many ways as ithas characteristics/parts/stages/etc.
However, thereare three criteria which experts (\[WA60\], \[Are75\],\[Tho57\], \[Dan67\], \[KP66\]) mutually consider essen-tial for a satisfactory organizational strategy:1.
Thetent(e.g.scheme should be logical; a single, consis-criterion should be used for tile analysistime, steps in a process).2.
The scheme should exhaust all of the possibil-ities; everything to be conveyed should be en-compassed by the scheme.3.
The resultant categories hould be mutually ex-clusive; nothing should belong to more than one.3\[Are75\] page 107While the type of explanation with which this pa-per is concerned exhibits a high-level organizationreflective of these criteria, the criteria by themselvesdo not provide the specificity necessary for computa-tional generation.
These guidelines include no sug-gestions for dealing with situations in which no logi-cal, all-inclusive framework Call bc identified, nor dothey offer suggestions for selecting among several or-ganizational schemes which meet the prescribed cri-teria equally well.
Furthermore, the guidelines arenot sufficient in-and-of themselves to account for allof the observed phenomena discussed in the followingsections.2.2 BAS IC  BLOCKSOur model is based on a discourse unit which wehave termed a basic block.
A basic block consists oftwo elements:1. an organizational focus, such as a person or lo-cation, and2.
a set of concepts related to that focus.The focus is what makes a cohesive unit of the ma-terial in the block; it is the thread cominon to all ofthis material, whether directly or indirectly.A basic block will be realized as a primary segmentof text which occupies the first level of the discoursehierarchy.
In a coherent discourse, the loci on whichthe basic blocks are based are themselves related,each representing a different aspect of some unifyingframework.
These points are demonstrated by thetestimony fi'om which the basic block in Figure 1was extracted 4.This block references a particular time frame: zeroto thirty seconds of the accident at Three MileIsland 5.
The remaining blocks of that testimony aresimilarly constructed around time frames, e.g., one tosix minutes, six minutes to one hour, etc.
Observedframeworks demonstrate a gamut of types: proper-ties of the concepts (location, time), planning strate-gies in which events are involved (medical diagnosis),and characteristics that are not only inherent in thematerial but also due in part to the speaker's per-ception of them (significant factors).
There appearsto be no limit to what can constitute an acceptableframework, only that it is derived from the materialitself and not from an independent device solely con-cerned with text structure.
What may be a potentialframework for one set of material may be totally in-adequate for another.
Note that these features arereflective of the guidelines uggested by analysis.In addition to forming a cohesive unit, basic blockstructure is explicitly distinguished in the followingtwo ways.
First, it is often explicitly marked.
In4 Space limitations prevent inclusion of the complete text.5Three Mile Island is a nuclear power plant located in thestate of Pennsylvmfia n the United States.
It suffered a near-meltdown in 1979.277Now, what happened at Three Mile Island was thata feedwater transient was experienced, and by thatI mean, simply, we lost feedwater to the plant mo-mentarily.Now, wittl loss of feedwater to the steam generator,the plant will experience a momentary pressuriza-tion above its normal pressure.
This pressurizationis released by a relief valve located at the top of thepressurizer.
It simply opens and lets out a little bitof stean't o take care of the excess pressure that is -interruption-Then at 15 seconds into the event-keeping in mindthat the valves opened maybe 5 seconds into theevent-at 15 seconds the pressure started comingdown because the valve had opened and cut off thepressure.The valve should have reclosed when it got backdown to about 2,250 pounds; it did not reclose.
Thepressure proceeded to come on down.
At about 30seconds into the event, this water here started disap-pearing, of course, because now you are continuingto remove a very large amount of heat here, which isthen coming off as secondary side steam generation,and this water will proceed to disappear if you donot start replacing it.And the auxiliary feedwater which normally comeson to make sure this does not go dry came on atabout 30 seconds into the event.
And at least thepumps were running.
So this picture here is just thefirst 30 ,~econds and-or thereabouts.And this figure here is indicative of the situation from1 to 6 minutes into the event.Figure i: A Typical Primary SegmentFigure 1, the speaker closes the block with explicitreference to its focus: "So this picture here is justthe first 30 seconds and-or thereabouts."
The sub-sequent block ii~ this testimony is also well marked,this time by its initial sentence (which is the lastsentence of the figure): "And this figure here is in-dicative of the situation from 1 to 6 minutes."
Thebasic block structure is further distinguished by cer-tain forms of repetition, whose use is closely tied tothe basic block structure.
While a brief allusion tothese forms is made below, a detailed discussion iscontained in \[MCM89\].2 .3  CHARACTERIST ICSOF COHERENT,  H IGH-LEVELSTRUCTUREGiven tile existence of a high-level structure as evi-denced by explicit markings and repetition, we mustconsider how such a framework is chosen.
If the onlyconsideration were the identification of a set of re-lated foci which can partition the material to be con-veyed, then any set of related concepts about whichthe material can be cohesively organized would suf-fice.
Consider the motivation behind the block ofFigure 1.
On the surface, the events in this blockall occurred within the first thirty seconds of the ac-cident.
However, it is doubtful whether the drivingforce behind the construction of this block was tocommunicate the time frame in which these eventsoccurred; rather, what is of importance is their rela-tive sequence in the total series of events, their cause-effect relations, and their impact on the resulting ac-cident.
One could argue that the individual events inthis block represent a cause-effect chain, and hencetheir mutual grouping; but this chain is continuedin the next block of the testimony.
Thus, this ar-gument alone cannot account for this segmentation.Apparently, other factors beyond the ability to cohe-sively juxtapose clauses contribute to the segmenta-tion and the high-level framework about which it isconstructed.In all of the dialogues examined, the blocks are ofapproximately the same size.
Apparently, speakerschoose organizations that tend to be well-balanced.However, balance does not seem to be the only crite-rion taken into consideration; if it were, we could ex-pect to see perfectly balanced organizations in whicheach of the concepts to be conveyed is realized by itsown basic block in addition to those well-bahmced or-ganizations found in our text analysis whose blocksare comprised of many concepts.
The size of the com-ponent basic blocks seems to be a further consider-ation in determining what constitutes an acceptableframework.
No lengthy discourse organized about asingle primary segment has been observed, nor haveany in which primary segments are composed of sin-gle concepts.
The "ideal" size of a basic block seemsto be three or four paragraphs in length for an ex-planation of three pages.We contend that the high-level structure of ex-tended explanations reflects the characteristics of an"ideal" framework in which:The basic block loci about which the material isorganized reflect various aspects of the unifyingframework.?
Basic blocks are the same size.?
The length of each basic block approximates theideal size.Our basic block model of discourse posits that theattainment of each of these features, termed compo-sitional goals, is instrumental in the selection of ahigh-level framework.However, not all observed explanations conform tothe basic block model as presented thus far.
For ex-ample, in explanations that are concluded by a final278summary, one would expect tile summary to empha-size the major points stressed by the speaker in thebody of the text.
In fact, there is a strong correla-tion between the segments comprising such a sum-mary and the foci about which the basic blocks areconstructed (see \[MCM89\]).
Ilowever, some expla-nations have been examined in which material thatappears in a summary has not been included in thetext.
Another apparent exception has been observedin explanations that exhibit a well-defined high-levelstructure that accounts for all of the basic blocks ex-cept for the final one, which is at best loosely relatedto the others.We postulate that a speaker attempts to identifya framework that is capable of coherently expressingall of the material he wishes to convey while satisfy-ing the compositional goals equally well.
However, aspeaker is rarely blessed with such an ideal situation.The problem appears to be one of finding a satisfac-tory, rather than an optimal, unifying framework.We hypothesize that the satisfaction of some goalswill be sacriffced ill favor of others so that a frame-work that provides the best overall solution can beachieved.
This relaxation of goal constraints explainsthe above anomalies and the variability of size andbalance observed in basic block structure.3 A MODEL FOR GENERATIONWe have developed a computational ntodel of dis-course generation that captures the structural char-acteristics observed in naturally-occm:ring explana-tions.
Our model is based on the hypothesis thatthe high-level structure of a discourse can be de-termined by bottom-up processes that attempt tosatisfy speaker, listener, and compositional goals.Once this organization has been established, top-down processes are used to organize the informationinto basic blocks and to supplenlent that informationbased on the choice of framework.
Only after the ba-sic block structure has been established will detailedorganization within a block and realization into textproceed.
The remainder of this section describes ourstrategy for identifying an organizational frameworkand the resulting basic blocks given an initial set ofconcepts to be conveyed.
We conclude by establish-ing our model within the context of a complete textgenerating system.3.1 IDENTIF ICAT ION OF CANDI -DATE FRAMEWORKSWe suggest hat a speaker, when organizing nil ex-tended explanation, will be faced with one of thefollowing general situations:?I Ie  already has a well-defined organizationalstructure in which the material to be conveyedhas already been organized.?
lie has a set of goals about which he wants tostructure the discourse.
In this situation, thegoals serve as basic block loci about which hemust now attempt o partition his material.
* The speaker is starting "from scratch"; he needsto find a unifying framework about which he canstructure what he wants to say.
It is this situa-tion which our strategy intends to capture.Our strategy assumes that the generation processstarts with some initial state of affairs and a com-municative goal to be achieved.
Based on this, arough set of information to be conveyed will be iden-.tiffed.
The selection of this material is not our con-cern; rather, we are concerned with determining areasonable high-level structure for this information.We assume that the material to be conveyed has beencategorized into at least two levels of importance:that which must be included at all costs (tile ker-nel), and that which would be nice to include, butdue to time, style, or coherence may be left out.
Theprocess of identifying candidate frameworks beginswith the kernel.The implication of the discussion in Section 2 isthat a unifying framework will be some feature towhich all of the kernel concepts can be related.
Inour model, we a.ssmne that the domain knowledge ismaintained as a hierarchical network.
Such a repre-sentation suggests that a node to which all of theseconcepts converge could serve as the unifying frame-work.
Tile basic block loci, which represent variousaspects of this framework, would then correspond tochildren of this node.Given a set of propositions to be conveyed, oneis randonfly selected from the kernel and a traceis performed upwards from each of its argumentsthrough the hierarchy.
The traversal of the hierarchyis pertbrmed using generalization links, e.g., ISA, IS-PART, and SUBG()AL, incrementing counters asso-ciated with each node that is traversed.
Additionally,CAUSE/EFFECT links can be followed when eventsare encountered.
Property links, such as color andsize, are used only if they were included as part ofthe kernel.
Once the traversal has been completedfor each element of the kernel, the nodes are rankedaccording to their counters; this will give some ideaof tile number of concepts that converge on each.At this point, the general characteristics of basicblocks can be used to eliminate some obvious non-candidate frameworks.
Since no extended explana-tions have been observed to be composed of a single,massive basic block, a node that has the same valueas its parent can be eliminated from considerationas a candidate framework.
By the same token, sinceno organization has been observed in which a ba-sic block is constructed for each concept, any nodethat has a number of children on the same orderas tlle number of concepts in the kernel carl also beeliminated from consideration.
Furthermore, nodes279at which very few concepts converge can be disre-garded since an acceptable framework must accountfor most (ideally all) of the kernel.The remaining nodes represent the potential can-didates for the unifying framework.
In all likelihood,none of these candidates will account for all of thekernel concepts.
However, it may be possible to con-nect such concepts to a candidate by finding a linkbetween these concepts and ones which are alreadyassociated with a candidate, possibly via a propertythey have in common.
Additionally, it may be possi-ble to include such material in a final summary or ina "catchall" block.
That speakers do introduce suchmaterial in this way is evidenced by our transcriptanalysis.
We claim that the inclusion of such mate-rial in a final summary is warranted if the speakerinitially intended to include a final summary and ifthe amount of material is of the same order as thatcomprising the individual segments of the summary;for the creation of a catchall block to be viable, theremust be sufficient material to construct an adequatebasic block and the material must form a cohesiveunit.
63.2 SELECT ION OF THE UNIFY -ING FRAMEWORKOnce potential fl'ameworks have been identified, eachmust be evaluated according to how well it meets thecriteria described in Section 2.3:?
ttow thoroughly does a candidate account forthe selected material?,, How uniformly does a candidate distribute theconcepts among the resulting basic blocks?,, IIow closely do the generated blocks conform tothe ideal size?Additionally, a candidate may be evaluated ~ to howwell it meets the needs of a user model.The actual blocks are constructed around a can-didate's immediate descendents, not the candidateitself.
So, for example, if a candidate were the nodeworkstation.s, its children - actual workstations atwhich things occurred - will become the basic blockfool.
The ideal case is one in which each child of thecandidate accounts for approximately the same num-ber of concepts.
The balance ach candidate achievescan be determined by comparing the counters of itschildren.
At the same time, the candidate will berated according to how closely its blocks conform tothe ideal size.
Lastly, we can rate the candidates onhow well they meet the demands, if any, imposed bya user model.
For example, if we know the user is fa-miliar with the location in which the events occurred,basic blocks based on location should be given higherratings; organizing an explanation around a frame-work with which the listener is familiar will fadlitatehis assimilation of the information.6See \[MCM89\] for a more complete discussion.3.3 GENERATION OF TEXTAt this point, the high-level structure of the expla-nation has been determined.
In the remainder ofthis paper, we will attempt o place our strategy inthe context of a complete system by giving a briefoverview of the remaining phases of our model.Once a fl'amework has been selected, the conceptsto be conveyed can be partitioned about each of theresulting foci.
At this point, there may be some con-cepts for which the framework does not account.
Thesystem must determine whether to include them asa separate, trailing basic block, as part of a finalsummary, or to eliminate them altogether (refer toSection 3.1).
In addition, depending on several fac-tors (e.g., verbosity constraints, choice of framework,etc.
), those concepts of moderate import may be inte-grated into the framework by performing a traversalof the networks or by finding links to concepts al-ready incorporated by the framework (as describedin Sections 3.1 and 3.2).
These steps complete theprocess of partitioning the material about the unify-ing framework.The next step is to determine the order of presen-tation for the blocks.
The order in which the basicblocks are presented may be inlposed by the mate-rim itself or by some external factor.
If no overridingconsiderations exist, the material may present obvi-ous "natural" choices, such as sequential ordering bytime or by cause-effect.
On the other hand, theremay be a predetermined preference for a particularorder, e.g., by their importance as determined bysome external process.Once the blocks have been ordered, text generationcan proceed.
We intend to use an established, low-level text structuring strategy (e.g., RST or schemas)for this phase.
We anticipate that additional infor-mation may be included in order to satisfy low-leveldiscourse goals (e.g., supplying information requisitefor the user's comprehension of the material to bepresented); thus, we do not claim that the entire con-tents of a text have been determined before structur-ing is performed.
Rather than organizing and realiz-ing text for the blocks en mass, we have adopted astrategy in which these steps are performed for eachblock individually.
Text for one block is presented tothe user before proceeding to the organization andgeneration of text for the next block.
This is to pre-clude wasted effort which may result from reorgani-zation necessitated by a user's questions.4 CONCLUSIONSThis paper has presented a computational model forgenerating the high-level structure for extended ex-planations.
It is being implemented as part of DIALS(Delaware Intelligent Advisory Language System),using the NIKL knowledge representation system.No claims are made that the methodology representsa psychological model of composition.
However, it280is maintained that the text produced by this modelis typical of that encountered in many naturally--occurring extended explanations.
The model doesnot presume to generate all acceptable organizations;indeed, there are many welLstruetured xplanationsfor which it does not account.
We have presentedthe simplest ease in which a high-level organizationis constructed from a parent and its children in ataxonomic hierarchy.
However, many other possibil-ities exist, several of which are currently being ex-amined within the semantic network paradigm.
Inaddition, we are investigating the generation of ap-propriate recovery strategies in response to interrup-tions and their impact on the planning strategy.
Weare also incorporating several forms of repetition thatare widely used in extended explanations.The unit of discourse which is the major moti-vation tbr this model is the basic block, a primarysegment of text which occupies the tirst level of thediscourse hierarchy.
It consists of an organizationalfocus and text constructed about that focus.
Wililemethods uch as RST and schemas are adequate forlocal organization oftext, they are insufficient for thedetermination f high-level structure, providing nei-ther criteria which describe what constitutes an ac-ceptable framework for a discourse, nor any clues asto how this framework should be constructed.
Thispaper provides both.
We believe that our modelprovides trategies essential for bridging the gap be-tween the generation of short explanations and thesuccessful generation of extended explanations.References\[Are75\] L. A.
Arena.
Linguistics and Composition.Georgetown University Press, 1975.\[Dan67\] R,.
W. Daniel.
A Contemporary Rhetoric.Little, Brown and Company, 1967.\[GS86\] B. J. Grosz and C. L. Sidner.
Attention,intentions, and the structure of discourse.Computational Linguistics, 12, 1986.\[ttM89\] E. lIovy and K. McCoy.
Focusing yourrst: a step toward generating coherentmaltisentential text.
In Proceedings of theEleventh Annual Meeting of the CognitiveScience Society, Cognitive Science Soci-ety, 1989.\[tIov88\] E. Hovy.
Approaches to the planning ofcoherent text.
Fourth International Work-shop on Natural Language Generation,i988.\[KP66\] T. S. Kane and L. J. Peters.
A Practi-cal Rhetoric of Expository Prose.
OxfordUniversity Press, 1966.\[MeC85\]\[MeK85\]\[MCM89\]\[MP88\]\[MS88\]\[MT88\]\[Par87\]\[Po186\]\[Sac77\]\[Tho57\]\[WA6O\]K. F. McCoy.
Correcting Object-RelatedMisconceptions.
PhD thesis, University ofPennsylvania, 1985:K. MeKeown.
Text Generation.
Cam-bridge University Press, 1985.D.
Mooney, M. S. Carberry, and K. Mc-Coy.
7'he Identification of a UnifyingFramework for the Oryanization of Exotended, Interactive Explanations.
Techni-cal Report 90-1, University of Delaware,1989.J.
Moore and C. Paris.
Constructing co-herent ext using rhetorical relations.
InProceedings of the Tenth Annual Meetingof the Cognitive Science Society, Cogni-tive Science Society, 1988.J.
13.
Moore and W. R. Swartout.
A re-active approach to explanation.
FourthInternational Workshop on Natural Lainguage Generation, 1988.W.
C. Mann and S. A. Thompson.
Rheto>ical structure theory: toward a functionaltheory of text organization.
Text, 8, 1988.C.
Paris.
7'he Use of Explicit User Modelsin Text Generation: Tailoring to a User'sLevel of Expertise.
PhD thesis, ColumbiaUniversity, 1987.L.
Polanyi.
The Linguistic DiscourseModel: 7bwards a Yormal Theory of Dis?course Structure.
Technical Report 6409,BBN, 1986.R.
Reiehman.
Conversational coherency.Cognitive Science, 2, 1978.E.
Sacerdoti.
A Structure for Plans andBehavior.
Elsevier North-llolland, 1977.W.
N. Thompson.
Fundamentals of Comomunication.
McGraw ttill, 19.57.C.
V. Wicker and W. P. Albrecht.
TheAmerican Technical Writer.
AmericanBook Company, 1960.281
