STS: An Experimental Sentence Translation SystemEric Wehrli*University of Geneva1211 Geneva 4wehrli@uni2a.unige.chAbstractSTS is a small experimental sentence translationsystem developed to demonstrate he efficiencyof our lexicalist model of translation.
Based ona GB-inspired parser, lexical transfer and lexi-cal projection, STS provides real-time accurateEnglish translations for a small but non-trivialsubset of French sentences.1 Int roduct ionAs a preliminary step towards the develop-ment of an on-line interactive system, we de-velop the STS system to establish whether ourlexicalist ranslation model, using a GB-.inspiredparser, lexical transfer and lexical projection,provides the kind of efficiency required for on-line translation 2.
In its present implementa-tion, STS translates entences from French toEnglish.
It can handle a limited, although nottrivial subset of clausal structures, using a lexi-cal database of more than 5,000 entries (includ-ing compounds and idiomatic expressions).Accurate natural language translation requires awide range of cognitive abilities, including ram-matical knowledge of the languages involved butalso some amount of extralinguistic knowledgeand common sense reasoning.
Lack of weU-defined theoretical models of knowledge andconmlon sense reasoning makes fully automatichigh quality translation unlikely in the near fu-ture.In the meantime, what appears to be an in-creasingly appealing alternative is on-line inter-active machine translation, i.e.
systems whichcan consult the user when they are unable tosolve a problem 1.
However, in order to be aviable alternative to other machine or machine-aided translation models, and in addition to theusual requirements of reasonable quality and lowcost, an on-line interactive system must also sat-isfy the requirements of real-time systems and inparticular be fast enough not to use the user'spatience.
*Part of the work described in this paper has beensupported by a grant from the Swiss national sciencefoundation (grant no 11-25362.88).
'For a discussion of on-line interactive translationsee Kay (1982), Tomita (1986), Johnson and Whitelock(1987), among others.2 Arch i tecture  of the systemThe basic architecture of the STS system is thefamiliar transfer model with its three main com-ponents: analysis, transfer and generation.
Tosee how these components interact, consider thefollowing (drastically oversimplified) sketch ofthe translation process: an input sentence inthe source language (SL) is first mapped ontosome formal representation for this language (S-structure).
This is done by the parser, on thebasis of lexical information and detailed knowl-edge about the grammar of SL.
The transfercomponent maps then the S-structure :returnedby the parser onto an appropriate S-structure inthe target language.
The transfer is done con-stituent by constituent, in a top-down fashion,starting with the top S (or S) constituent.
Foreach constituent, he lexical head is first con-sidered: Its lexeme is associated with a set ofpossible translations, ie.
one or more lexemesin the target language.
Once the relevant lex-eme has been selected an appropriate structureis projected on the basis of its lexical properties2For a description of the parser used in the STSproject, see Wehrli (1988).176and of the general rules and principles of targetlanguage grammar.
Notice that the projection isdone solely on the basis of information internalto the target language.In other words, the interface structure is min-imal, as it should be, and is almost entirely amatter of lexical :napping.
Both the analysisand generation modules are completely indepen-dent of each other.
This again, is a desirablefeature, in the sense that, for instance, the sameparser can be used no matter what the targetlanguage :night be.
In fact, given that the S-structures in this system are solely justified interms of the gra~unar, the parser (and genera-tor) do not have to be application dependent.2.1 Lex ica l  databaseThe lexical database is the central piece of theSTS system.
It contains crucial informationused by the three active components of the sys-tem.
This information is distributed in twomonolingual lexicons (SL lexicon and TL lexi-con) along with one bilingual exicon.
We shallconsider them in turn:2.1.1 Monol ingual  exiconsWe assume a static - or relational - concep-tion of morphology, along the lines of Jackendoff(1975), Wehrli (1985).
According to this view,morphological relations between two or morelexical entries are expressed by a complex net-work of relations.A monolingual lexicon distinguishes three ba-sic entities: lexeme, word and idiom.
A lexeme isan abstract lexical unit, which can be compared,roughly speaking, to a standard ictionary en-try.
It stands for a whole class of morphologicalvariants.
By contrast, a word corresponds to aparticular morphological instantiation of a lex-eme.
In other words, we make a clear distinctionamong :features which may vary with inflexionand those which are invariant.
To give an exam-ple, am, are, were, being, be, etc.
are words, :nor-phological variants of the lexeme "be".
The lex-emes are associated all the features which are in-dependent ofthe morphological realization, suchas semantic features, subcategorization features,and the like.
Features which depend on inflex-ional markers - e.g.
tense, number, person, etc.- are naturaly attached to the words.
In addi-tion to words and lexemes, a monolingual lex-icon also contains a list of idioms, ie.
pharseswhich have a fixed, non-compositional meaning,such as to kick the bucket or to be caught red-handed.The notion of lexeme turns out to be one ofgreat significance: Not only does it make possi-ble to factor out basic syntactic and/or senmn-tic properties hared by morphologically relatedwords.
At the same time, it also provides theabstract lexical level which is relevant for lexi-cal transfer.2.1.2 Bi l ingual d ic t ionaryThe bilingual dictionary specifies the set of pos-sible relations between lexemes of the source lan-guage and lexemes of the target language.
Eachentry in this dictionary specifies one SL lexemeand one TL lexeme.
In case one particular SLlexeme has more than one corresponding TL lex-eme (e.g.
aimer -7  to like, to love, etc.
), thebilingual dictionary contains as many entries asthere are correspondences.
The bilingual dictio-nary contains other kind of information as well.For instance, in the case of argument-taking el-ements, such as verbs or predicative adjectives,an entry of the bilingual dictionary must alsospecify how the arguments of the SL predicatematch the arguments of the TL predicate.3 The  transfer componentThe role of the transfer component is to :napSL S-structures onto TL S-structures.
In STS,this mapping is done indirectly, by means of twomechanisms: lexical transfer and lexical projec-tion.Transfer applies to the syntactic structures re-turned by the parser.
In a top-down fashion,starting with the main S-structure, the transferprocedure considers the lexical head of a phrase,look it up in the bilingual dictionary and se-lects the most appropriate TL lexeme, based oncontextual information, features in the bilingualdictionary.
Once a lexeme has been selected, aprocess of lexical projection creates a TL syntac-tic structure on the basis of the lexical propertiesof the TL lexeme, and of the general syntactic77properties of TL.
In the next step, the trans-fer procedure considers the complements of thehead, using the same strategy.
In addition tolexicaJ\[ transfer and lexical projection, the trans-fer procedure is guided by the argument map-ping information found in the bilingual dictio-nary~ as mentioned above.In the STS system, discrepancies between SLand TL, such as differences in word order or ar-gument matching, can be handled quite natu-rally without the need of complex and ad hocstructural transfer ules.
To illustrate this point,the fact that a sentence containing a modalverb must be assigned a bi-sentential structurein French, but not in English follows from thelexical properties of modal verbs in French andin English, i.e.
French modals are main verbsselecting an infinitival sentential complement,while English modals are not marked as mainverbs.
Within a linguistic theory which assumesthat phrase structures are projected from theirlexical elements, the structural differences be-tween French and English sentences follows fromthe lexical differences between, say, pouvoir andcar~.(2)a.
l 'homme dont vous semblez avoir oublidle nom ne pourra-t-il pas vous fournirles renseignements dont vous avez be-soin?b.
won't the man whose name you seem tohave forgotten be able to provide youwith the information that you need?Such examples show that the STS systemcan succesfully handle structures of a non-triviallevel of complexity.
The second example, in par-ticular, shows the ability of this system to han-dle problems such as difference in word-order,argument matching and idiomatic expressions.In addition, this model proved extremely effi-cient - total time for parsing and translation ofthe above sentences averages 150 ms/word 4 -which is a crucial prerequisite for on-line inter-action.ReferencesJackendoff, R. (1975).
"Morphological and se-mantic regularities in the lexicon," Lan-guage 51:639-671.4 Some examplesTwo examples of translations produced by theSTS :system are given below.
In the first ex-ample, a is the input sentence, b the structurereturned by the parser, and c the sentence re-turned by the translator s .
The structure hasbeen omitted in the second example.
(1)a.b.le livre que vous regardez semble ~trefacile ~ fire.\[ s \[ NP \[ I~plelivre\]j \[ ~ \[ c0MP \[ ~Pquel j \ ]  \[ s \[" NP eJk \[" VP \[" CLI v?usk\]regaxdez \[ NP eJ j \ ] J J J i  \[ vP semble \[\[ s \[ NP e\]i \[ uP 6tre \[ AP \[" NP eJlfacile \[ ~h  \[ s \[ sPe \ ] \ [  vplire \[ t~reSl\]\]\]\]\]\]\]\]\]c. the book at which you are lookingseems to be easy to read.3The structures returned by the parser correspond toslightly simplified S-structure representations of a GB-granmlar.
The indexes in ( lb) express A'-binding or con-trol relations with empty categories (e.g.
\[ NP el).Johnson, R. and P. Whitelock (1987).
"MachineTranslation as Expert Task," in S. Niren-burg (ed.)
Machine Translation, Cam-bridge University Press.Kay, M. (1982).
"Machine Translation," Amer-ican Journal of Computational Linguistics8:74-78.Tomita, M. (1986).
Efficient Parsing for NaturalLanguage, Kluwer Academic Publishers.Wehrli, E. (1985).
"Design and Implementationof a Lexical Data Base," Proceedings of the2nd European ACL Conference, pp.
146-153.Wehrli, E., 1988.
"Parsing with a GB gram-mar," in U. Reyle and C. Rohrer (eds.
),Natural Language Parsing and LinguisticTheories, Reidel, 1988.4CPU time on a DEC Vaxstation II computer.78
