Discourse Processing in MT:Problems in Pronominal TranslationHajime Wada : wadah@yvax.byu.eduDepartment ofLinguistics, The University of Texas at AustinandECS, 455 North University, Suite 202, Provo, UT 84601, U.S.A.Keywords: Machine Translation, Anaphora, Discourse Representation Theory, Focus1.
IntrcnluctionTranslation of anaphoric expressions has beenproblematic in most of the MT systems (Key 1986).One ot' the main reasons for the difficulties lies in thelack of discourse information representation in the MTsystems.
In this paper, we report an implementation fthe Discourse Representation Theory in an LFG-basedEnglish-to-Japanese MT program, and discussproblems in translating anaphoric expressions in thissystem.2.
Problems in Translating AnaplmraProblems in translation of anaphoric expressionscan be seen on three different but interactive levels oflinguistic information: lexical, syntactic andpragmatic.The main problem on the lexical level is due to adifference in the language specific parameters in thepronominal system such as F features (person, gender,number, etc.).
Surface forms of pronominals dependon the F features of their antecedents, o that thetranslation of a particular pronominal form cannot bedetermined sorely by the pronominal itself.
Forexample, 'ship' in English is feminine, but itstranslation, 'hune', is neutral in Japanese.
Thus, apreform 'she' for 'ship' should not be translated as'kanojo' (3rd, sing, fem), but as 'sore' (3rd, sing, neut).Problems on the syntactic level are mainly due to adifference in the distribution of anaphoric expressions.Mapping relations between English pronominals andtheir Japanese counterparts are shown below:E~!~ish ~oaneseOvert Pronoun~-.,~ Overt PronounReflexives ~ zibunX-zishinEmpty Pronoun - -~  Control-Zero\ Topic-ZeroThe most crucial case is English overt pronouns.
AsKuroda noted (1965:107), overt pronouns are notrepeatable in Japanese, while they are in English.(1)a.
He does Iris work when he feels like doing it.b.
*Kare-wa kare-ga sitai toki-ni kare-nohe 'FOP he NOM like to do when his GENsigoto-wo suru.work ACC doInstead of repeating overt pronouns, zero pronominalsand 'zibun' should be used though there are somevariations in their use.c.
Kare-wa 0 sitai toki-ni ~ sigoto-wo suru.d.
Kare-wa zibun-ga sitai toki-ni 0 sigoto-wo sum.e.
Kare-wa 0 sitai toki-ni zil)un-no sigoto-wo suru.Resumptive pronouns are also problematic.Possessive relative pronoun 'whose' in English must betranslated as a resumptive pronoun whose antecedentis the head NP of a relative clause in Japanese.The last set of problems is on the level o1'pragmatics.
It has been known that in many languagescertain types of pronominal expressions represent afocus in a discourse.
For example, in English, overtpronouns play this role while zero pronouns (topic-zero) do the job in Japanese.
In a certain discoursecontext, a discourse focus should be translated as areflexive 'zibun' instead of a zero pronoun.Some cases may be induced to lexical properties ofpredicates and pronominals uch as functional andpsuedo-functional control cases and reflexivity.Nonetheless, most of the above problems are noteasily separable; they should better be solved in aunified model.3.
Treatment of Pronominal TranslationIn this paper, we will focus on the problems oftranslating English overt non-reflexive pronominalsinto Japanese.
These l)ronominals must be mappedinto 1) overt l)ronominals, 2) 'zibun', 3) pro, or 4)discourse pro in Japanese.3.1.
Role of DiscourseTo explain some exceptions on locality conditionsand ambiguous cases in anaphora resolution, recentstudies have focused on the role of discourse (Grosz1981; Sidner 1983; Joshi & Weinstein 1981;Kameyama 1985; Roberts 1986) and worldknowledge.
Discourse factors affecting anaphoraresolution are discourse structure and discoursefocus/center.
This report concerns only the latter; inparticular, the selection of focus and its maintenance.Following Grosz, we assume that a focus is themost salient NP in a sentence, and every sentence hasone and only one focus 1.
Often a focus is marked bythe use of pronominal, stress, thematic role andparticular syntactic constructions uch as clefting,question, passivization, etc.
However, there seems noclear generalization on the organization of the focusmarking factors.
We simply assume the most markedNP with respect o die number of found factors (asher& Wada 1989; Alshawi 1987).We have adopted the Discourse RepresentationStructure (Kamp 1981) to represent a currentdiscourse structure which will be appended to an f-structure representing a sentence.
DRS+f-structuregives a ground for examining logical conditions based1 We concern a local focus only, and multiple foci cases areexcluded from our discussion.1 73on the accessibility condition, and locality conditionssuch as disjoint reference on each anaphoricexpression (cf.
Roberts 1986).Now consider 4) discourse pro.
Its characteristic isthat it may not be bound in the current sentence, butmust be bound by the focus in the previous discourse.In other words, when a pronominal cannot find itsantecedent in the current DRS, we assume that it mustbe bound by the previous discourse focus unless thefocus has been shifted, and in such a case we translateit as ~, a lexical zero pronominal.3.2.
Proform Selection by FUOn the other hand, when an antecedent is found inthe DRS, the anaphoric link will be noted not only inDRS, but also in relevant f-structures via features uchas Ant(ecedent) and Desc(endent) with a commonindex.
However, we still need to determine whichform should be used: pro ,  'zibun', or overtpronominals.
The selection should be syntacticallymade on the Japanese side since no additionalinformation is available for the selection in the Englishf-structures.Let us discuss the syntactic mechanism for theproforrn selection.
Suppose that a proform be lexicallypresented in each noun in the lexicon such asfollows2: I ~ENDER msc GENDER msc)ROFORI'I 'he' PROFORid 'he'When the two shown above are anaphoricallylinked in a sentence, LFG offers a syntactic solution,namely, the Functional Uncertainty (Kaplan &Maxwell  1988) 3.
The link is represented by afunctional-application equation (FU) such as follows:(2) < ^ /GF* \GF PREFORM > = < ^  PREFORM >In the above FU, the second GF after the right slashrepresents an f-structure that dominates a possibleantecedent, and the first GF* after the left slash, f-commanding path to the antecedent from the current f-structure 4.
That is, the FU imposes a constraint suchthat the right-hand side of the equation in (2)represents an f-structure containing apronominal, andif there is an f-structure within the path represented bythe left-hand side of the equation, then it must be thecase that their PROFORMs are unifiable 5.For the generation of surface PROFORMs, weassume that a pronominal element possesses alexically unspecified PREFORM, and it will bespecified by its antecedent.
In other words, given thata pronominal and its antecedent are coindexed, an FUsuch as follows should be satisfied.
(3) < ^  / GF* \ GF* Ant > =c < ^  Desc >2plural PROFORMs should be assigned to NPs syntactically.3The stone mechanism has been used in other cases uch asthe noun classifier selection for numeral expressions andnegative scope domain setting by 'wa' in Japanese (Wadaforthcoming).4 This has been done by pointing the antecedent from thecurrent l'-structure.5 Note that the equation is far more powerful than thisdescription.This equation can be solved only when the indices areidentical.
Once the equation (3) is solved, PREFORMwill be unified between the antecedent and thepronominal 6Selection on pro and 'zibun' can be considered assolving particularly restricted FU equations.
Forexample, 'zibun' will be selected when the followingFU equation is satisfied 7.
(4) <^/GF(ADJUNCT)GF* ',SUBJ Ant> =c <A Desc >This equation says that if there exists a SUBJ that f-commands GF(s) that may contain an adjunct whichincludes an f-structure in which the current proresides, then it must be the case that the Ant value ofthat SUBJ and Desc value of the pro are identical.Each unspecified 'pro' will carry a set of equations,each of which selects a particular PREFORMdisjunctively.
(5){ \[<A/GF(ADJUNCT)GF* KSUBJ Ant> =c <A DOSC >< ^  PREFORM > = 'zibun' \]\[ <A/GF* ADJUNCTx SUBJ Ant> =c <A Desc >< ^  PREFORM > = 0 \]\[<^/GF* \GF* Ant> =c <^ Desc >< A PREFORM > = <!A PREFORM > \] }4.
Implementation of the TreatmentThe anaphora resolution mechanism in ourprogram consists of three functional units: the DRSconstruction (DRSCONS), the salient element storing(SLSTOR), and the antecedent searching (ANSR).4.1.
DRSCONSThis module constructs DRSs compositionally,following Montagovian tradition (Wada 8,: Asher1986, Reyle 1988).
Thus, we assume that a semanticrepresentation, SMS, is appended to each F-structure.SMS is a pair < SemType, DRS >, where SemType isa semantic type.4.
2.
SLSTORSLSTOR's main function is to store the mostsalient, focused element in the current discourse forthe next sentence processing (Alshawi 1987; Asher &Wada 1989).
In order to find the most salient NP,SLSTOR sets three kinds of filters among others suchas grammatical function, use of pronominal, andsyntactic onstruction (See Asher & Wada 1989), andcheck all of the NPs appeared in the current sentencewith respect o the three filters.After the most salient element has been selected,SLSTOR checks whether the current focus has beenshifted or retained by comparing the current SLSTORvalue and the newly selected one.
If their gender,number, person, etc.
are unifiable, the discourse focusis considered to retain and SLSTOR keeps theprevious NP in the storage.
If they are not unifiable,the focus has been shifted, and SLSTOR stores thenewly selected element as a current focus.4.3.
ANSR6Resumptive pronouns are treated in the same way shownabove, except for the co-indexation.
Since an antecedent for aresumptive pronoun is always the head NP of the relativeclause and therefore, the co-indexation isnot necessary.7This is the condition that Kuroda (1965) proposed, and stillhas been a basically correct generalization.74 2This module consists of three functions.
The firstfunction is SEARCH.
SEARCH searches antecedentsby testing the accessibility on the DRS and morpho-syntactic constraints uch as gender, number, andbinding features (sub, nuclear, etc) on the current f-structure.
If a search in the DRS fails, SEARCHfurther searches in SLSTOR, and check a focusedelement in SLSTOR.
In effect, we distinguishpronominals into three classes according SEARCH'sresult; 1) an antecedent found in the current DRS, 2)an antecedent not found in the current DRS, butcontrolled by a discourse focus, and 3) an antecedentnot found in either in the current DRS or in theprevious focus.The second function is LINK.
In the case in 1)above, \]LINK will set a unique anaphoric index in bothF-structm'es of the antecedent and its pronominal andassigns an unspecified 'pro' to the pronominal.The last function is SETPRO, which assigns 0 tothe pronominal in the case of 2), and assigns a defaultword-for-word translation i  the case of 3).5.
ExamplesLet us take some examples.
First, consider thefollowing donkey sentence.
(6-a)Every man who loves a ship treats her tenderly.
'Her' will be linked with 'a ship' by SEARCH due tothe accessibility of 'a ship' to 'her' on the DRS.
Then,the same anaphoric index is assigned to the transfer f-structure of 'a ship' and of 'her' by LINK.
'Her' istranslated as an unspecified 'pro' as shown below.
(6-b)Hune we aisuru otoko wa mina sore we itukushimu.ship ACC love man TOP every it ACC treat-tenderIn this result, an overt pronominal, 'sore', is selectedfor 'pro' since the f-structure for 'hune' and 'pro' sharean anphoric index, and the last clause in the FUequation in (5) is satisfied.Suppose that the next sentence appeared iscourse-initially.
(7-a) John believes that she is a genius.Since there is neither a sentence-internal antecedentnor a previous focus, 'she' gets a default ranslation,'kanojo'.
However, if the following sentence precedesthe sentence in (7-a), a lexical ~ will be selected asthe target for 'she' because 'Mary' is the focus of (7-b)since it is a SUBJ and appears in a passiveconstruction.
(7-b) Mary was aw,'uded as a distinguished artist.Now, consider the next example.
(8-a) John works when he wants to do his work.In the above example, 'his' should be linked to 'he' and'he' to 'John'.
Each anaphoric index has a differentvalue, but both of the pronominals will be translated asunspecified 'pro's.
However, the equation (5) givesthem different PROFORMs, 'his' 'zibun' and 'he' ~.This is indeed a desired result as shown below.
(8-b)John-wa 0 zibun-no sigoto-wo sitai-toki-ni hataraku.John TOP POSS work ACC want-to-do when work6.
Remaining ProblemsA note on defects and shortcomings i  in order.It is no doubt that world knowledge plays animportant role in anaphora resolution.
We assume thatin the near future, a world knowledge inferencingmodule should become available, and that it will beincorporated into our system.We assumed that an input text as a whole consists adiscourse segment; however, this is due to the lack ofa treatment in discourse segmentation i  our program.One related problem is on tim distinction of the globalfocus and local loci.
Since our program considersonly one segment at a time, there is no way to handlecomplex foci.Another ,area which we need to handle but has beenneglecting is number related expressions uch asplural antecedents and split antecedents.Also, the salient element selection mechanism inour program is still based on a crude stipulation.
Weneed to conduct further esearch on this topic.Finally, it is desirable to map a source DRS to thetarget DRS and handle language-specific discourse-based expressions.
These will be our next task.ReferencesAlshawi, H. (1987) Memory and Context for LanguageInterpretation, Cambridge University Press.Asher, Nicholas (1986) "Belief in DiscourseRepresentation Theory", in Journal ofPhilosophical Logic, 5, pp.
127-189.Asher, N. & H. Wada (1989).
"Computational Accountof Anaphora", ms, CGS, Univ.
of Texas.Gmsz, B.
(1978).
"Discourse Knowledge", inUnderstanding Spoken Language, ed.
by DonaktWalker, pp.228-345,.Grosz, B.
(1981).
"Focusing in Dialogue", in TINLAP-2 :Theoretical Issues in Natural LanguageProcessing.
pp.96-103.
ACM anti ACL.
N.Y.Joshi, A.
& S. Weinstein (1981) "Control ofInference:Role of Some Aspects of DiscourseStructure-Centering", in proceedings of 7th IJCAI,pp.385-387Kmneyama, Megumi.
(1985).
Zero Anaphora."
TtwCase of Japanese.
Ph.D. dissertation.StanfordUniversity.K,'unp, H. (1981) "A Theory of Truth and SemanticRepresentation", in Groenendijk and Janssen (eds),Formal Methods in the Study of Language,Gronningen:Amsterdam, pp.l-41.Kmnp, H. (1983) "Situation in Discourse", ms, CSLI.Kaphm, R. & J. Maxwell (1988).
"An Algorithm forFunctional Uncertainty", in the proceedings ofCOL1NG-88, pp.297-302.Kay, M (1986) "Machine Translation will not work", inthe proceedings of ACL, p.268.Kuroda, S-Y.
(1965) Generative Grammatical Studies inthe Japanese Language, Ph.D. dissertation, MIT.Roberts, C. (1986) Modal Subordination, Anaphora,and Distributivity, Ph.D.dissertation, UMASS.Reyle, W. (1988)"Computational Sem~mtics for LFG", inNatural Language Parsing and Linguistics Theories, edsby U. Reyle and C Rohrer, pp.
448-47&Sidner, Candice (1983).
"Focusing in theComprehension fDefinite Anaphora", inComputational Models of Discourse, eds by R.Berwick anti M. Brady, pp.267-330.Wada, Hajime (forthcoming).
"Applications of FunctionalUncertainty in ECS System", ms.Wada, Hajime & N. Asher (1986).
"BUILDRS: Anhnplementation f DR Theory and LFG", in theproceedings ofCOLING-86, pp.540-546.3 75
