project note with software demonstrationA parser without a dictionaryas a tool for research into French syntaxJacques VERGNELIMSI 29 rue TitonF-75011 Paris FranceA natural language is not a formallanguageThat is why the syntax of a natural anguage ~ notbe described by the rules of the syntax of a formallanguage.
And that is why a natural anguage cannot beparsed the same way as a formal language.
To parse anatural language, it would be necessary to know itssyntax,Thus, major difficulties in parsing a natural anguageare not algorithmic but linguistic.Here, I assume that natural language has a veryhigh formal redundancy.
In other words, morpho-syntaclic lues are numerous enough to make deductionsupon categories and relations in many converging ways.Research into French syntax then consists indiscovering these clues: morphology of words,agreements ,  relat ive posit ions of e lements,segmentation i NPs, or in larger segments, typologyof relations, structure of the relations net, formal andquantitative constraints upon this net.The parser presented here is an experimentaldevice used to test and confirm the linguistichypotheses upon large text corpora.
The formalredundancy is high enough to parse without a dictionarywith very few data (300 ending rules and a lexicon ofgrammatical words of 4 kB) and a NP stack grammar.Linguistic hypothesesA sentence is considered as a stack of NPsin our Western grammar traditions, action is the maininterest and we place verbs in a central position.But, in scientific texts, NPs are the main carrier ofmeaning, as they name concepts.
They arc also used asterms for indexation.
From the statistical point of view,too, nouns are by far the most numerous category.That is the reason why the basis for this parser is thatthe sentence is considered as a stack of NPs, withrelations of determination between them.
An initial NPis laid (it is often the focus of the sentence), and thefollowing phrases precise and determine it.
Heredetermination is considered as adding more data.
Thesedifferent NPs are connected in a more or less narrow wayby "links":?
"non verbal links": prepositions, co-ordinations,subordinating conjunctions, relative pronouns,?
verbs in all their forms: conjugated, present and pastparticiples, infinitives.Thus the processing of the verb is unified in such amanner that every verb, conjugated or not, of a main orsubordinated clause, acts as an adjective (is a "mmslatd"to adjective, according to Tesnigre's concept, in\[Tesni&e 591), determines a NP and is a link in tile"chain" of NPs.Thereforc, the NP is considered as the basic andconstitutive lement of the sentence (as the cell is thebasic and constitutive lement of the living tissue).
Theinside and the outside of the NP are processed separatelyand differently, so we have:?
a grammar of the NP, centered on a nominalizedword (like the inside structure of the cell, centered on itsnucleus),?
and a grammar of the sentence, outside the NP,which is expressed in terms of NPs, each of themconsidered as a closed entity (like the structure of thetissue expressed as an architecture of cells).
Let us namethis grammar the "NP stack grammar"  or "NPSG".lnside the noun phraseThe internal grammar of the NP is centered on anominalized word, a noun, a nominalized adjective or averb.
It reigns over its determinant and adjectives at theroot of a dependency-determination tree.The branches of the tree are made of partitive,determinant, indefinite adjective, anteposed adjective(very rare in scientific texts) before the nominalizedword, and contiguous or co-ordinated postposedadjectives, after the nominalized word.
The nominalizedword is determined and qualified by the other words ofthe NP.
This grammar has been presented for instance in\[Vergne 86\] and developed in \[Vergne 89\].Outside the noun phraseThe NP slack grammar  or NPSG,  is used to:?
validate the sentence structure as a stack of NPs,?
confirm the function of words external to NPs,?
compute some tight relations external to NPs, suchas verb-object.Valuation functions are used to compute otherlooser relations external to NPs, such as prepositionalphrase attachment or co-ordinations.70  -1 -Relations typologyI propose to distinguish three types of relations:-1- relations internal to the NP  (mainly thedetermination oun ~ adjective).
These relations arecomputed uring the internal analysis of a NP.-2- relations external to the NP, but internal to arecognition pattern, as for instance, the relationssubject <- verb and verb ~-- object in a SVO sentence.These relations are computed at the recognition timeduring the validation of the sentence at the NP level.This computation is a lgor i thmic.Nota bene: to avoid the Chomsky's term ~ ,  Ipropose the term fe igner  for Tesnibre's concept"regissant"  (in \[Tesnihre 59\]).
They have the sameetymology, and both are verbal derivatives:the fe igner reigns over its dependents.-3- relations external to the NP and external to therecognition patterns, as for instance, the relations"reigner" <-preposit ional phrase (PP): the PPs arcrecognized by a pattern of the form: prel)osition-Nl ), apattern which does not contain the reigner, which iseither a verbal "link", or a determined NP.
Theserelations are computed by valuation t'unctions.
Thecomputation then is heuristic.The three types of relations are determinationrelations.
They proceed from the tighter ones, inside theNP (-10, to the looser ones, outside the NP, and outsklethe recognition patterns (-3-).The  NP  s tack  grammarValidating the NP stack patternAt the beginning of this step of the parsing, thesentence is represented by a pattern made of a sequenceof letters, in which each letter represents either a NP, ora word external to the NP (preposition, verb, forinsmm:e).It is possible to imagine this pattern as anart ichoke, made of leaves around the heart.Validating the pattern then consists in plucking offparts of it progressively:?
the leaves are replaced or removed m a precise order,until the heart is reached:- leaves are replaced by context sensitive rules whicherase negations, adverbs, auxiliaries;- leaves are removed by context free rules whichremove everything else but the heaFl;?
simultaneously, each time a leaf is replaced orremoved, the relations internal to this leaf are computed(relations of type -2- in the typology exposed above).That is the reason why I name this parser:"plucking off parser" or "POi ' " .The final state of the pattern once plucked off must beone of the different possible hearts.
They are:?
a NP alone,?
a NP determined by other NPs through a conjugatedverb,?
or a NP determined by an atlribute, a past participleor a NP through an au?iliary "etre".Transposing relations internal to a leaf bysimulated reclothingRelations which are internal to a leaf pattern must betransposed into the entire NP level pattern.
From tilepositions in a leaf pattern, we are able to compute thepositions in tile entire NP level pattern.To retrieve these absolute positions, we have only tosimulate tile reclothing of the heart, by using thehistorical account of the plucking off.
After simulatedreclothing (by applying the rules in the reverse order),we obtain the absolute positions in the entire NP levelpattern.In a later step of the parsing, after the internalanalysis of NPs, these relations will be transposed intothe word level pattern.In such a way, all relations internal to a leaf patternare computed inside the leaf pattern, then transposed bysimulated reclothing into the entire NP level pattern,then at last Iransposed into the word level pattern.These two transpositions may be seen as rel'erencepoint changes, from a relative position in the leafpattern (NP level), to an absolute position in the entirepattern (word level).Va luat ion  funct ions :  an heur i s t i c  wayto chooseValuation functions have been described in derail inI Vergne 891.PrincipleA valuation function is a clear and fine way to expressan heuristic, when criteria are too fuzzy to make achoice with an algorithm (a binary tree of "if then else"for instance).The objective is to make an autoinatic hoice withoutan algorithm.
The principle is the following:?
Determine the objects to valuate: the candidatesdistinguished from the non candidates.?
Quantify vahmtion of the candidates, using criteriato discriminate thein.
The criteria represents Iheknowledge we have about the phenomenon.?
The candidate who obtained the higher valuation ischoosen.When to use valuation functionsValuation functions are used to compute the relationsof type -2.- :, to search tk)r the "reigner" of a nominal or infinitivePP, of a present participle or of a gerundive introducedby "en", of a past participle, of a subordinated clause;o to search for the left co-ordinated of a NP, of anominal or infinitive PP, of an infinitive, of anattribute, of a main or subordinated clause;?
to search for a referent which agrees with ananaphoric.Using valuation functions with formal criteria isbased on the hypothesis of the high fo rmalredundancy of natura l  language.-2 -  71Attaching prepositional phrasesprinciple:At the beginning of the computation, a "power toreign" is affected to each word according to its categoryand its eventual verbal derivational origin.This computation is thought of as the simulation ofthe conflicts that words have between them to reign overother words.
During this computation, powers arevariable: cancelled, reduced, augmented or transmitted.the valuation formula:The function used to valuate a reigner-candidate is alinear function of its power and of its distance to thePP.
The valuation is the ~ power of the feigner-candidate, when seen from the dependent.The apparent or relative dimension of an objectdepends on its absolute dimension, and on the distancebetween the object and the observer.
It is possible tothink too of the physical analogy of the field, a conceptwhich gives an explanation of the influence of an objecton the objects in the space around: the universalattraction (gravitation field), for instance, is governed bya rule in 1 / distance 2 It is the purpose here tomodelise the influence of a reigner ovcr its dependents.The candidate is valuated according to the followingformula:\[ relative power = 2 * absolute power - 10 * distance \]error detection:If two valuations are very close, the higher ischoosen, as usual, but marked as uncertain.final out pu!2.
'Then the reigner is lemmatizcd, and the relation isoutput, with its type,If the dependent is co-ordinated, the dependency of theright co-.ordinated noun is output too.
It has the samereigncr as its left co-ordinate.Computing co-ordinations of noun phrasesp ~The valuation function used to compute the co-ordinations is a linear function consisting of criteria thatfinely measure the isomorphism of the two co-ordinatedphrases, it depends neither on the powers nor on thedistances.
Note that this isomorphism is not thefundamental feature of co-ordinated phrases, but that,more globally, it is the most common mark of an"isofunctionality", perhaps also for some aestheticreasons: euphony, taste for balance, symmetry,repetition (of structure).the valuation criteria:?
a first group of criteria is used to measure theisomorphism of the determinants of the two potentialco-ordinated NPs: both definite determinants, bothindefinite determinants or both without determinant,both possess'ires or both demonstratives;?
a second group of criteria is used to measure theisomorphism of nouns: identical nouns, bothnominalized verbs, or same number;?
a criterion concerns the "isoqualification" of nouns:both qualified or both not qualified.Other features of the parserTechnical realization?
programming language: Turbo Pascal?
machine: Macintosh?
source size: = 16 000 lines?
code size: = 340 Ko?
research and development: ~ 3 yearsmanPerformances on a corpus of about 10 000words?
processing speed: = 3 words per second on Mac II?
category errors: < 1% / words?
relation errors: < 3% / relationsOutputThe parser outputs the results into following files:?
results, sentence by sentence: relations, features ofeach word, and tile determination tree;?
other results, grouped and classed on the whole text:- the lexicon of the text, lemmatized, classed bycategory, and reversed,- relations of the text, classed by syntactic type ofrelation,- problems met during the parsing, classed by type ofproblem,- statistics about text size, processing speed, numberof tested patterns, categories, deduction modes,relations and patterns of the text.Conc lus ionsThe NP stack grammar is based on the centralplace of tile noun phrase.It allows, before the internal analysis of NPs, toverify a sentence pattern, by a fast and non recursivealgorithm.The typology of relations gives clearly the separationbetween relations the computation of which can bealgorithmic and relations the computation of whichmust be heuristic.Using valuation functions to compute relations is anefficient mean to exploit as best as possible purelyformal criteria, without using semantic information,thus confirming the high formal  redundancy  ofnatura l  language.Quoted  re ferences\[Tesni/we 59\] Luc ien  Tesni~re:  Eldments desyntaxe structurale Klincksieck (Paris) 1982\[Vergne 86\] Jacques Vergne, Pascale Pag/es:Synergy of syntax and morphology in automaticparsing of French language with a minimum of dataCol ing 86 Internat ional  Conference  onComputational Linguistics pp.
269-271, Bonn,august 1986\[Vergne 891 Jacques Vergne: Analyse morphosyntaxique aulomatique sans dictionnaire th~se dcdoctorat de l'Universitd Paris 6, june 198972 3-
