Human-Computer Interaction for Semantic DisambiguationRalf D. BrownSchool of Computer ScienceCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA 15213Intemet: ralf@cs.cmu.eduSergei NirenburgCenter for Machine TranslationCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA 15213Intemet: sergei@cs.cmu.eduTopics: User Interaction, Disambiguation text (either in a natural language or in a formal lan-AbstractWe describe a semi-automatic semantic dis-ambiguator integrated in a knowledge-based machinetranslation system.
It is used to bridge the analysis andgeneration stages in machine translation.
The user in-terface of the disambiguator is built on mouse-basedmultiple-selection menus.1.
IntroductionExtraction and representation f text meaning is acentral concern of natural language applicationdevelopers.
This goal still largely eludes computationallinguists.
Many problems remain unresolved.
They in-clude referential ambiguity resolution \[4, 12\], determin-ing the nature of semantic dependency relations (as, tbrinstance, in compound nouns in English \[8\]), treatmentof novel language and ill-formed input \[21\], metaphorand metonymy \[6, 7\], discourse and pragmatic mean-ings \[11, 14, 17\], etc.Another set of tasks includes work on representationlanguages both for text meaning proper and for on-tological domain models that underlie semantic analysisof texts \[1, 7, 13, 15\], problems of acquiring and work-ing with domains and sublanguages of realistic s~e\[15, 16\] and taking into account requirements of par-ticular applications, such as machine translation, naturallanguage interfaces to databases and expert systems, etc.In the partial case of a particular application area,the representation problems ate alleviated.
However, thetreatment of a large number of linguistic phenomena isstill a major problem.
At this point, the developers ofnatural anguage processing (NLP) applications have achoice of1.
not relying on results of semantic andpragmatic analysis;2. providing semantic analysis for selectedphenomena and limited domains only; or3.
using human help in determining facets oftext meaning.In this paper we describe an environment facilitatinghuman involvement in semantic and pragmatic analysis(Figure 1).
This envhonment is applicable to mos~ corn-.prehensive lkq~P applications and consisL~ of ~_~automatic analyzer of input text, a generator of outputguage) and an augmentor module that bridges the twoand facilitates the involvement of a human in theprocessing loop.
The background knowledge for such asystem consists of an ontological domain model, agrammar and a machine-tractable dictionary (MTD) t foreach natural language involved in either analysis orgeneration.We will concentrate on the augmentor module,which consists of a human-computer interface with adialog manager and a set of automatic semantic analysiscomponents.
The composition of the automatic om-ponents depends on the capabilities of the particularanalyzer with which the augmentor is coupled.
Weproceed from the assumption that the format and contentof the input to generation is fixed.
It is this set ofknowledge structures that we call the text meaningrepresentation.
Therefore, if the automatic analyzer isrelatively shallow, the augmentor will have to performmore operations to fill the gaps in this representation.The role of the augmentor will diminish as the sophis-tication of the automatic analyzers increases.
The abovemeans that the environment we suggest is flexible anddurable as a software configuration, because new find-ings and methods of treatment of the various linguisticphenomena will be accommodated in the architecture asthey appear.The concept of the augmentor is also useful from thestandpoint of building large software systems.
In suchapplications it is usually desirable to incorporate asmany existing software modules as possible, to avoiddeveloping software from scratch.
However, many suchcomponents expect heir inputs and produce their out-puts in an idiosyncratic formalism.
An augmentormodule can include special facilities for reformattingthe output of one software module in accordance withthe requirements on the input to another module.
In theframework of natural anguage processing, the augmen-tor will usually reformat the results of the analyzer intothe format expected by the generator.We now describe the augmentor module of theKBMT-89 machine translation system developed atCarnegie Mellon University \[ 10\].In KBMT-89 semantic interpretation occurs partly~3his term is due to Yorick Wilks, and is distinct: from machine-readable dictionary, which is simply a printed dictic~laly stor~electrcmically,'L112NL Input27e~inU cgl.m ?i';t~; fae o )'-\] !??
'.__22L Gonorator,IJVTranslationAbstractDialog turnUpdate of DB or KBFigure 1: The architecture of an NLP system whichfacilitates human interventioni!iliiiiiiiiiiiiiii!i!:i~ii:\[.......
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
L"=,7= :ii!i!i:iii!~!
i:iiiil ~ - -  oNros:iii~ii~ii!ii!i!!i:!
:ii:i ~ ~7: i : .
.
.
.
.
.
.
i : :~ut" - ' -on~ts~ : !.
.
.
.
.
.
iii~u~r,~tj,~: :: : :::5::::: |i!i!
: i:iiiiiOiom"ti01i!iii:: :5::::!
~ ~.
.
.
.
.
.
{iiii:iii ,.
.
ooo,oLanguag~!i{iii ~ G~.or=torSoutcaLmqf~goPataorKEYDataConVol + Dataif rojoctod,~oreaLnng~0oGeneratorFigure 2: The augmentor, shown as part of KBMT-89.The augmentor components are shaded.in the analyzer module and partly in the augmentor, adivision dictated largely by the requirements of com-putational efficiency and the reuse of an existingmodule.
The KBMT-89 analyzer was built around a par-ser developed by Tomita in 1986 \[20\].
It proved to beessential to apply semantic onstraints early in the pars-ing process to reduce the number of ambiguities;however, the semantic processing integrated into theanalyzer was insufficient in many cases.
Since the out-put of the KBMT-89 analyzer had to be reformatted inaccordance with the requirements of the generator, ad-ditional ,semantic analysis was to be performed at theaugmentation stage.
Parts of this analysis and dis-ambiguation can be performed automatically; for theremainder, human interaction is used.
The user is askedto supply missing information and to choose among mn-biguous alternatives until a single, unambiguous result(called an interlingua text, or ILT) is obtained.
This isin contrast o other systems such as TEAM, whichselects a "best" parse to process based on a priori syn-tactic considerations \[19\].The KBMT-89 augmentor was thus designed withthree main components o meet the criteria mentionedabove: a format converter, an automatic augmentor/dis-an~biguator and an interactive disambiguator (Figure 2,previously published in \[2\]).2.
Automat ic  Augmentat ionThe KBMT-89 system consists of multiple com-ponents which run in separate Lisp processes (usuallyon separate workstations) in a distributed tashion.
Thedistinct components (Figure 2) are a source-languageanalyzer, a source-language nerator for paraphrasing(used for verification),?
a target-language nerator, theaugmentor, and file ONTOS knowledge acquisition tool\[18\] (used for queries or updates of the ontologicaldomain model).The analyzer provides the augmentor with a nestedlist representation (Figure 3) of file meaning and syntaxfor each of the possible interpretations of the input sen-tenee.
The angmentor extracts the semantic information(itself in a nested list format within the (SEM .
.
.
)sublists), removes any completely duplicated semanticparses, and converts the nested lists to an isomorphic setof trees of linked frames using the FRAMEKIT knowledgerepresentation package \[5, 9\].
The hierarchies of fr,'unesproduced by the format conversion form the candidateinterlingua texts.
At this stage, however, the ILTs arestill "bare", containing only that information which ap-pears directly in the analyzer output (Figure 4) and astub for the speech act information.The automatic augmentor and disambiguator inKBMT-89 consist of a pattern matchcr and apronominal anaphora resolver described in \[4\].
The pat-tern mateher performs a number of structural rearrange-ments on the trees of linked FRAMEI, aT frames, as wellas adding inlormafion which is readily derivable fromother information already present in the parser output.After the pattern matcher completes its modifica-lions of the interlingua texts, the automatic disambigua--lion procedures me invoked.
Currently, only thepronominal anaphora rcsolver MARS (MultipleAnaphora Resolution Strategies) is implemented.2 43(((SEN(*SEN*((NUMBER-BULLET(ISIS-TOKEN-OF ANY-NUMBER) ($ID (KID* I)(CARDINALITY i)(SNAP-DATA(*MAP* { map-str (ANY-NUMBER-MAP)} )(CLAUSAL-MARK +) (MOOD IMPERATIVE)(TENSE PRESENT)(SOURCE((REFERENCE DEFINITE) (NUMBER SINGULAR(SNAP-DATA(*MAP* { map-str diskette drive } ))(SIS-TOKEN-OF DISKETTE-DRIVE)($IO (*IO* 27))))(THEME ...)(AGENT *READER)($MAP-DATA (*MAP* { map-str remove ) ))($1S-TOKEN-OF REMOVE) ($ID (*ID* 5)))))(NUMBER-BULLET((ROOT I) (VALUE I)(SEM ...)))(OBJ((CASE ACC)(SEN(*SEM*((REFERENCE DEFINITE) (NUMBER SINGULAR)($MAP-DATA (*MAP* { map-str tape } ))(SIS-TOKEN-OF STICKY-TAPE)($ID (*ID* 6)))))(REF DEFINITE)(DET ((ROOT THE) (REF DEFINITE)))(ROOT TAPE) (COUNT NO) (PERSON 3)(NUMBER SINGULAR) (MEAS-UNIT NO)(PROPER NO)))(VALENCY TRANS) (MOOD IMPERATIVE)(TENSE PRESENT) (FORM INF)(PPADJUNCT ...)(ROOT REMOVE) (COMP-TYPE NO) (PASSIVE -)))Figure 3: Abbreviated parse of 1.
Remove the tapefrom the diskette drive.\[CLAUSE490(SPEECHACTID\[SPEECH-ACT488(TIME TIME489)(SPACE)(DIRECT?
)(SPEECH-ACT)\])(PROPOSITIONID\[*REMOVE(NUMBER-BULLET\[*ANY-NUMBER(CARDINALITY I)\])(MOOD IMPERATIVE)(TENSE PRESENT)(SOURCE\[*DISKETTE-DRIVE(REFERENCE DEFINITE)(NUMBER SINGULAR)\])(THEME\[*STICKY-TAPE(REFERENCE DEFINITE)(NUMBER SINGULAR)\])(AGENT tREADER)\])))MARS attempts to find the referent for each pronounand definite noun phrase in the interlingua texts, andadds a link to the referent if found.
It is often possible toeliminate a candidate ILT during resolution, particularlyif further processing of the parses is delayed until thenext several sentences have been processed by theanaphora resolver.MARS employs a set of constraints and preferencestrategies 2 to determine the referent of a pronoun ordefinite noun phrase.
The constraints are applied first toreduce the set of candidate referents, and then thepreference strategies are applied using a voting scheme.The candidate with the largest total weight is consideredthe desired referent, unless there are other candidateswithin a predetermined threshold, in which case theanaphor is held to be ambiguous among those candidatereferents.
Possibly after an interactive disambiguationsession (described below), the user is asked to confirm aparaphrase of the input.3.
In teract ive  D isambiguat ionIf multiple candidate ILTs remain after automaticdisambiguation, a composite ILT (as described in detailin \[2, 10\]) is created by combining all candidate parses,and any parses which are proper subsets of otherremaining candidates are removed.
The composite ILTis then used to generate a set of multiple-selectionmenus which will be used in the interactive disambigua-tion.A composite ILT retains the tree structure of eachcandidate interlingua text used to form it.
Each frame inthe composite contains all of the slots contained in eachof the original ILT frames from which it was made.
Inturn, each slot of a composite frame contains all of thedistinct fillers together with pointers to the original ILTscontaining each distinct filler.To begin interactive disambiguation, the augmentorchecks the slots of the composite ILT for multiplefillers.
If there are multiple fillers, the augmentor buildsa set of multiple-choice menus for the user to decidewhich of these fillers must remain in the final inter-lingua text.
The user interface (Figures 2 and 5) dis-plays as many as four menus at a time during dis-ambiguation, and the user makes his selections on anyof them.
This puts the user in partial control of theorder in which ambiguities are eliminated, allowing himto choose the menu which is simplest or most obvious.By allowing more than one choice from a menu to beselected, some disambiguation can occur even if theuser is unsure which value is most appropriate.After a decision has been made on a menu by click-ing the mouse button over the desired choices and thenDONE, the augmentor examines the composite, ILT anddetermines which of the candidate interlingua texts con-lain any of the selected values.
The ILTs which do notcontain any selected values al~ discarded, and the com-posite 1LT is adjusted by removing the discardedFigure 4: Bare Interlingua Text in a compact displayformat emphasizing its tree structure:ZThese currently include local anaphora constraints, case rolescnnantic constraints, pl~e/postcondition constraints, case role persis~tence preference, intersentential recency preference, and s~*tactictopicahzation preference.44entries.
Finally, the menu contents are adjusted toreflect any possible reduction in choices, and menuswith only a single entry are deleted.
Because the menusare not entirely independent, it is not unusual for asingle selection to cause the removal of multiple menus,even if the menu on which the selection was made stillcontains more than one choice.
Once the menus havebeen adjusted, another set of menus is displayed, andthe cycle of menu display and user input repeats until asingle, unambiguous interlingua text remains, which ispassed on to the generator.4.
Augmentor  In ter face  FeaturesThe augmentor user interface (Figure 5) consists ofan input/output panel in the bottom half of the screen, amain menu to its right, and the query area in the top halfof the screen.
The input/output panel is further divided(from top to bottom) into the input window, the statusline, the paraphrase window, and the translation win-dow.
The input window accepts all typed input; thestatus line informs the user of the progress of a trans-lation or indicates what input the augmentor is expect-ing; the paraphrase window displays a paraphrase of theinput text after all analysis and disambiguation is com-plete, ,and the translation window displays the finaltranslation after the paraphrase has been accepted by theuser.The user interface allows the user to consult he on-tological domain model or the relevant dictionariesthrough the knowledge acquisition system ONTOS.The user may query the knowledge base, displaying ei-ther a glaphical representation f the heirarchy or theactual contents of the frame for a concept.
A simplerquery is possible even if ONTOS is not loaded; eachmenu which asks for a selection among ambiguous con-cepts for a word allows the user to display thesynonymous terms which map into each concept ratherthan the definition of the concept.
The augmentor per-forms the necessary extraction from the ontology itself.All of the windows in the KBMT-89 augmentorwere implemented using the programmable ditorHEMLOCK integlated into Carnegie Mellon University'sCommon Lisp system.
As a result, the input,paraphrase, and translation windows are actually editorbuffers and each retains the previous output even after ithas scrolled out of the window.
This nmkes reviewingearlier work simply a matter of placing the mouse cur-sor in the appropriate window and issuing editor?movement commands (either from the keyboard or bypressing the mouse buttons).
The entire transcript froma given window can also be saved to a file, if desired.Since the KBMT-89 system is modular, changingthe direction of translation only requires reconnectingthe various modules in different ways.
This may beaccomplished by executing the setup procedure (whichoccurs automatically when the augmentor is initiallyloaded, and may be selected from the main menu) andspecifying the source and target languages.
A shortcuthas been placed on the main menu to switch betweenEnglish-to-Japanese and Japanese-to-English trans-lation, as those were the languages available toKBMT-89.
Regardless of the source and target lan-guages, the angmentor invokes the proper analyzer andgenerators toaccomplish the desired u'anslation.One of the more interesting tbatures of theKMBT-89 augmentor is that the user interface languagehas been made completely independent of the sourceand target languages by passing all messages through alookup function before displaying them.
The languagemay be selected, during setup, from among those in-stalled, and may either remain fixed or change to thenew source language whenever the source language ischanged.
If the proper set of messages has been in-stalled in the lookup table, it is possible for the userinterface to be, for instance, in German while translatingfrom Japanese to English.
The main use of this feature,however, is to allow a user to translate from all un-familiar language into his native language, though notas well as translating from his native language into anunfamiliar one.The definitions displayed in word-sense dis-ambiguation menus are similarly translatable by placingdefinitions for the desired languages into the ontologyalong with the English definition.
For both user inter?face messages and definitions, the augrnentor automati-cally falls back to English if the message or definition isnot available in the appropriate language.5.
An ExampleWe now describe an actual example of the use of theaugmentor in the translation of a sentence from Englishinto Japanese.
This example begins when the userenters the sentence to be translated (number 19 in thetest corpus: 7.
Set the power switch on the system unit toOn.)
3.
The augmentor invokes the English analyzerwith this sentence as input.
Once the candidate parsesare obtained, the augmentor converts each of them intoa set of FRAMEKIT f lames, which it then augments bymaking a variety of implicit inlbrmation explicit andperforming structural rearrangements.
The MARSanaphora resolver does not apply to this sentence, sincethe latter does not contain pronominal anaphora, andthere is no prior context for attempting to determinecoreferentiality of definite noun phrases.
Therefore, allof the candidate parses remain after the automaticprocessing.After augmentation and disambiguation, anyremaining anabiguity in the candidate parses invokes aninteractive disambiguation session.
In this case, fourmenus appear, indicating that there are at least fourpoints on which the 14 candidate parses differ (Figure5).
We will work with the lower-left menu first, as ithas the largest number Of entries, which, we hope, willreduce the ambiguity most quickly.
After deciding onDISCRETE-ELECTRONIC-MOVE-LEVER as themeaning of SET and clicking on it and then on DONE,the augmentor di~ards those candidate parses which donot contain the selected value in the appropriate position(we could have selected multiple items if we had beenunsure of the correct one).
In this case, the number ofcandidate parses is reduced from fourteen to six, andanother menu replaces the one just completed (unfor-tunately, space constraints prohibit inclusion of furtherscreen images; a complete version of this example willappear in a forthcoming paper \[3\]).3"lhe domain of KBMT.-89 is personal computer installation andmaintellance guides.4 45We now select ON-POSIT ION in the upper left-hand menu as the meaning of DISCRETE-POSIT ION(rather than using the more general POSITION) 4,which reduces the number of candidates to two andremoves three of the menus, as two of the other menuswere not independent of the upper left-hand menu.
Anew menu appears, and we are left with just two menus.After making a total of three selections, only one can-didate parse remains.
This is passed on to the Englishgenerator for paraphrasing, and the paraphrase is dis-played in the center window.
The augmenter askswhether the paraphrase properly captures the meaningof the input, and an affirmative response triggersgeneration i the target language.
The translation ap-pears in the bottom-most window.
A negative responsewould have restored all of the candidate parses (includ-ing any eliminated automatically) and started anotherdisambiguation session.6.
Future  Direct ionsKnowledge acquisition (KA) is often an integral partof an application which uses natural anguage.
Sincethe knowledge sources cannot be expected to be ade-quate in all cases, it will not be unusual for the naturallanguage processing component to require knowledgeenhancement.
By having a knowledge acquisition com-ponent integrated into the NLP application, we mayachieve a synergistic effect.
The system dictionariescan be updated immediately whenever there is a failurein parsing or generation caused by an inadequate dic-tionary; similarly for ontologies and grammars.
TheKA component, in turn, may invoke the natural lan-guage analyzer to help automate a part of the knowledgeextraction process by processing machine-readable dic-tionaries and encyclopediae nd online corpora, thuseasing the knowledge acquisition task.
Whether in-voked by the application or the knowledge acquisitioncomponent, the analyzer may need the augmenter's helpin dk~ambiguating theinput; the augmenter in turn maydetermine the need to acquire more knowledge and(re-)invoke the KA component.
A proposed knowledgeacquisition environment utilizing such an integratedNLP/KA approach, with provisions for use by a team ofknowledge-enterers, will be described in \[3\].7.
References1.
Brachman, R.J. and H.J.
Levesque.
Readings inKnowledge Representation.
Morgan Kaufmann, 1985.2.
Brown, R.D.
"Augmentation".
Machine Translation(formerly Computers and Translation) 4 (1989),129-147.3.
Brown, R.D, and S. Nirenburg.
Multifunctional In-terfaces in NLP (working title), in preparation.4.
Carbonell, J. G. and R. Brown.
Anaphora Resolu-tion: A Multi-Strategy Approach.
Proceedings of theTwelfth International Joint Conference on Computa-tional Linguistics, COLING '88, 1988.5.
Carbonell, J.G.
and R. Joseph.
The FrameKit Refer-ence Manual.
Carnegie Mellon University ComputerScience Depamnent, 1985,4Chic possible improvement is to detect such cases and automati-cally discard the more geueral concept.46 56.
Carbonell, J.G.
Metaphor: An InescapablePhenomenon in Natural-Language Comprehension.
IStrategies for Natural Language Processing, LawrenceErlbaum Associates, Hillsdale, New Jersey, 1982.7.
Fass, D. Collative Semantics: A Study in the Dis-crimination of Meaning.
Tech.
Rept.
88-24,CSS/LCCR, 1988.8.
Finin, T.W.
The Semantic Interpretation ofNominalCompounds.
Proceedings of the First Annual NationalConference on Artificial Intelligence, AAAI-80, 1980,pp.
310-312.9.
Nyberg, E. FrameKit User's Guide.
Carnegie Mel-lon University Center for Machine Translation, 1988.10.
Goodman, K. and S. Nirenburg (Ed.)
KBMT-89Project Report.
Carnegie Mellon University Center forMachine Translation, 1989.11.
Grosz, B., and C. Sidner.
"Attention, Intentions,and the Structure of Discourse".
Computational Lin-guistics 12, 3 (1986), 175-204.12.
Hirst, G. Lecture Notes in Computer Science.Volume 119:Anaphora inNatural Language Under-standing: A Survey.
Springer Verlag, 1981.13. ttirst, G. Semantic Interpretation and the Resolu-tion of Ambiguity.
Cambridge University Press, 1987.14.
Hovy, E.H.
Generating Natural Language UnderPragmatic Constraints.
Ph.D.
Th., Yale University,1987.15.
Lenat, D. and R.V.
Guha.
The World According toCYC.
Tech.
Rept.
ACA-AI-300-88, Microelectronicsand Computer Technology Corporation, 1988.16.
Monarch, I., S. Nirenburg and T. Mitamura.Ontology-Based Lexicon Acquisition for a MachineTranslation System.
Proceedings ofFourth Workshopon Knowledge Acquisition for Knowledge-Based Sys-tems, Banff, Canada, 1989.17.
Nirenburg, S. and C. Defrise.
Aspects of TextMeaning: Using Discourse Connectives and Atfitudinalsin Natural Language Generation.
Carnegie MellonUniversity Center for Machine Translation, 1989.18.
Nirenburg, S., I. Monarch, T. Kaufmann,I.
Nirenburg and J. Carbonell.
Acquisition of VeryLarge Knowledge Bases: Methodology, Tools, and Ap-plications.
Tech.
Rept.
88-108, Carnegie MellonUniversity Center for Machine Translation, 1988.19.
Grosz, B.J., D.E.
Appelt, P.A.
Martin, and F.C.N.Pereira.
"TEAM: An Experiment inthe Design ofTransportable Natural-Language Interfaces".
ArtificialIntelligence 32 (1987), 173-243.20.
Tomita, M. Efficient Parsing for Natural Lan-guage: A Fast Algorithm for Practical Systems.
KluwerAcademic Publishers, 1986.21o Weischedel, P~.M.
and L.A. Ramshaw.
Reflectionsn " v,- o the Knowledge Necessary toParse Ill-Formed input.In S. Nirenburg, Ed., Machine l~'anslation: Theoreticaland Methodological lssues, Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge, England, 1987.Wr .
, , tl i~1,C--1 I h lC)  COLD' ' I  I e .~ l - , ' l~"O( .
,O  I r~.
'4 .
(--" I '~: 0 1 C ~-~.
I '0  .~ il) I'U ~ I(t" ('I- | l-~ ~ TJ ~-\] flj I ~ fl) !il \[" \ [ 'I .C1 !~ Lb-ql  i I ~' ,~ 'O- (?
l  II fi) ~ "0 I i 'd  ZO l'l,J I '.~(OF"  !
C\]~l-- I f :  I 21 i Z.-\[iIL} I(F~ ~,', I F -  :2" I,- ~ I- I Oq ",,<" (J~ i ,- I >XU) 1 I - ' .
-41t ' J  I i :  \]-3 i ~-~1t tDI '0  U) -4  I tJ)"0 I .-Il y"-~ immlMml'3 -o??
io(1o3r02J-m-oo@"'1mEn03mmO-Nc.3ct-0C33nl-'30f~IIt~030.3 -~0MEII IB30~BLJ) I ,0) O7~.
M I'd(4 -410Mq)3"10r4~H-4(OH- -40  :X ;ZO ,o.EEO0IXO (3ErM310qFmMt'rl Z~"o,~U(I.I%@3 c~0 ~'~"1 3IIt JCJZl~lII-BO --qr0 F II e@MO~Z- - Io ---I HZ l '00  ZM~e<t0 cl~g3-3OI/QtO @ fllQ Jll0@ 00~X@ o"13 3mct -OOr r ltf)6 47
