Tenets for an Interlinguai Representation ofDefinite NPsMontserrat MeyaCDS BarcelonaSiemens SA, Spaine-mail: Montserrat Meyallopart@eurokom.ie1o IntroductionThe main goal of this paper (as in Keenanand Stavi 1986) is to characterize thepossible determiner denotations in order todevelop a computational approach thatmakes explicit use of this information.
Tocope with the constraints that languagesimpose when generating determiners, acomputational model has to follow the lawsthat map definiteness to structures andstrings and viceversa.In the following proposal I distantiate fromK.
Btihlers Deixis Theory and Weinrichs(76) proposal where indefinites suggestsubsequent information, while definite pointout facts from the previous intbrmation.
Thisvery general position is insufficient if wewant to formalize NP-definiteness.The semantics of NP definiteness must becaptured adequately in computationalframeworks for such tasks as answeringquantified NL-- questions, or in a MT systemto convert NPs from one language intoanother,.In the first part of this paper I draw atypology of definiteness; later I reflect on thedefiniteness of NPs in an IL-representation.The major result is given by the determinergenerators.
Definiteness should be evaluatedin a Q-A system and in MT.
The extensivefunctionality of definiteness is firstelaborated in the parsing and results in an IL-representation; finally the determinergenerators create correct morphologicaldeterminers and right determiner structures.2, Parsing definite NPsWeinrich (1976) distinguishes three types ofanaphoric and cataphoric information: context,situation and code.
Code is the paradigmaticmeaning that speakers find in the lexicon(standard efinitions).The NPs parsing strategy- that copes withthese three information types- comes down tothese main questions:?
the question of building adequatesemantic interpretation for the functionalfeatures fixed during analysis?
The question of reference resolution fordefinite NPsTo achieve that goal the Np grammar mustwork with a sufficient:?
determiner subcategorisation?
strategy about constraints dependingupon the semantic features of the nouns,and on the context (PPs, Rel-S,compounding, etc.
)This strategy, of course, can not rely on thepresupposition of existence and uniqueness,i.e.
the "accommodation" model of Lewis263(1979) or the Russellian analysis of "the" soclosely related to the analysis of "only", thatwould fail for sentences like: (MacCawley81.
p.177):1.
"The restaurant on the Clark streetis excellent"because Russell's analysis did not allowtruth value gaps or interactions betweenlogical form and context (MacCawley.t).177), if there is more than one restauranton the Clark Street, sentence 1 expresses afalse proposition.Determiner SubcategorisationThe list of determiners i surprisingly long(Keenan 86) and there is even the possibilityto build complex determiners by addingmodifiers to determiners.
According tokeenan and Stavi there are 3 types ofdeterminers: cardinal, logical and nonlogical.Dets are taken into consideration accordingto the fact of being terminal or pre-terminalnodes.
This subcategorisation entails thefollowing additional feature-value pairs.Terminal determiners are subcategorized inthe lexicon according to the features:?
definite (logical) vs. indefinite (non-logical)?
demonstrative s. possessive?
type of quantification {collective,distributional, numeral, amount,partitive, negation}?
comparativesPre-terminal determiner featuresWhen NP structures are built during parsing,the intermediate nodes must come up withvalues for the features:?
definiteness {proper name, boundedNP}?
negation?
topicalization?
genetics?
head-specifier relation?
apposition {Titel .... }?
genitives {possessive, part-of .... }?
predication {equality vs. copula}?
type of sta'ucture {PP, Rel-S,...}?
semantics of the NP {mass vs. countnoun, temporal, ocal, argument .... }Each feature configuration corresponds with aNP structure with full decoration (in a MTsystem), or a compositional formularepresentation (in understanding systems); inboth cases it is built up rule-to-rule.The outgoing object of the parser is a IL-representation.
Later on the generators willdefine, according to the idiosyncratic laws ofeach language, the morpheme assignment forthis interlingua (IL).Determiner functionalityThe semantic value of the tags {genetics,definiteness, topic} for NPs is obtained uringanalysis and it is the result of taking intoconsideration:?
the whole NP structure {attribution,apposition, genitives, head-specifierrelation in compounds is relevant fordefiniteness.?
the NP typology together with thesentence aspect and time is relevant forgenerics.?
the semantic primitives tie the lexicalitem to an ontological class and isrelevant for the possible word readings?
word order and negation is relevant fortopicGenericsGenerics do not underly universal or nearlyuniversal quantifiers.
The reference of genericsmirrors that of habitual propositions.
They aretreated as predication of individuals though264allowing the clauses in question to takedifferent truth values at different times.Generics are expressed in the present ensewith the aspect value habitual (usually,occasionally, always).
The 3 differentgeneric types reflect the differentquantitication o f  the determiners inpropositions like:1.
"Men do not cry"(Quant.=distrib) (=usually everyman does not cry)2.
"Germans are bad husbands"(Quant.= distr)3.
% man does not cry"(Quant.=mass)(whoever has theproperty of being)4.
"the lion is a mammal"(Quant=coll) (The species...)5.
"I like lamb"Contrary to MacCawley I think thatindefinite plural generics as in (1) arebasically references to sets of objects.Indefinite singular generic NPs arereferences to properties of individuals (3),and definite singular NPs with count nouns(4) or indefinite ( without article) mass nouns(5) are basically references to kinds.The final value "generics" on the NP iscalculated from the verbal tense value (PR)and from the aspect value (habitual) togetherwith the determiner of the NP, the semantictype of the noun, and the whole NP syntacticstructure.6.
"Wine is a drink"vs. "el vino es una bebida"\[$SUBJ mass\]7.
"I drink wine"vs, "bebo (0) vino"\[$OBJ mass\]The same generic NP in examples 6/7behave differently in spanish according tothe sentence argument.Both the generics and the syntactic role in thesentence have an effect on the articlegeneration i different languages.Head-Specifier StructureThe addition of features providing informationabout certain syntactic structures i very usefulin reflecting the nominal definiteness behavior.The following structures assist indistinguishing (between general and specificreference) definite NPs:?
acronyms and proper names:"The Union"?
appositions:"The Siemens company"?
complex proper names (dates, time:2 o'clock, 2.3.1990,...)?
attribution (with adjectives, relativeclauses, genitive constructions,prepositional phrases, compounding ....)Here some examples with the valuedefiniteness =True:"The second paragraph", the cleanestwater", "The man that I remember",Peter's hatred", "the truth about hispast", "the picture on the wall", "theking's daughter",..Genitives in whatever morphol\[ogical form arealways definite constructs:?
The king's daughterDie Koenigstochterla hija del rey?
House doorHaustiirla puerta de la casaGermanic languages only have one determinerin compounds, however the genitive relationmust be captured to reflect he definiteness ofthe specifier in another language.During NP parsing, constituents are markedaccording to their head- specifier functiontogether with their semantic type.In that way,265PPs, adjectival phrases and compounds arerepresented in a uniform way.
Additionalfeature constraints on head and specifierregulate definiteness, depending on theirsemantic primitives:?
Druckfestigkeitresistence a la compresion?
Druckknopfbouton a presion?
Einkommensteuerimpot sur la revenue?
Einfuhrsteueimpot d'importationDirectional and local compounds, or thecorresponding PPs in other languagescontain the feature definiteness because theyare usually tied to some deictic situation (SeeLoebner 1985, semantic vs.
pragmaticdetiniteness).?
im Palasten el palacio?
zum Palastal palacioTopicalizationThe series "definite article + Lexeme +indefinite article + Lexeme" reflects amethodological progress in the informationsituation.
If this direction changes, thedirection of the predication also changes.That means that the noun (or NP) will befocused and therefore has a definitereference.8.
the FBI employed Americancitizens(la FBI emplea 0 a ciudadanos)9.
American citizens are employed bythe FBI10.
Los ciudadanos americanos sonempleados por la FBI11.
a: Dem Kind gab ich den Ballb: Es al nifio a quien di la pelota12.
The man I loveTopicalized NPs must be marked as such.Voice in example 9 topicalize the NP anddemands in spanish definiteness for the NP.The bare topicalization i  german in example(l la) corresponds a marked extraposition ispanish (11 b).
Languages make adiscriminating use of this feature whengenerating determiner requirements.Predicative constructionsIn predicative constructions the relevantcriteria for the use of determiners are the typeof copula (NP expresses a property (14-15), ora reference (16)), while with other verbs therelevant criteria is the aspect (process vs.accomplishment or achievement)A sentence involving a noun X with definitearticle in predicate position does not assert hatthe subject is X.
We have to distinguishbetween a "be" of identity and that of copula.13.
Felipe es (el) presidente de Espafiaa: (t x: presidente(x,Espafia))=(Felipe,x)14.
Alex is an artist vs. Alex es artista15.
Felipe es el presidente que prefieroa: (3x) (PE x, (Vy)(~=yx,~PEy),Felipe,x)English demands article for copula cases like(14), existing the opposite referential value forthe article "the" (the teacher).
Referentialexamples are treated the same in english andspanish for identity predicate.At the other hand arguments of predicates inaccomplishments or achievements (not as aprocess) are (16) individualized and as suchdemand definiteness.
The sole exception arelexicalized expressions and sentences withfunction verbs (17)16.
"voy a la playa" vs. "I go to thebeach" (achievement)"bese un tigre"(al tigre) vs.
I kissed26617.the tiger (accomplish.
)"me gusta besar tigres" vs."I like tokiss tigers" (process)"pongo la mesa" vs. "Ich decke denTisch""tengo razon" vs.Ich habe Recht"3.
Interlingual representationof definitenessDefiniteness i a means to satisfy coherencerequirements.
Definite NPs have a scope justlike quantifiers and they may be involved inscope ambiguities as Russell suggested(MacCawley p.178).
The most reliable testto decide about the definiteness of an NP isto use Peterson's (1979) test of there-insertion.
There insertion requires that theexistential quantifier be immediately abovethe clause into which there is to be inserted.If an existential context is possible then thereis no definiteness.18.
there are two men in the garden*there are the two men in the garden(no possibility of there)Definiteness in an extensional model it is afunction from properties into sets ofproperties.NPs in the IL representation used in MT areflat tree structures with decorationscontaining sets of attribute-value pairs.These attributes were sketched above.Feature configurations are equivalent to wellformed formulas after lambda conversion, sothat this approach can be used in a NLunderstanding system as well.Below a rough outline of a PSR fornominals:1: NP <--.
2: DET + 3:NOconditions: ......structure:1: nu = 2:nu1 :Quant --= !VRaspect & Qtype ofdeterminer1:Generics = !VEtense & VB.aspect (i)1 :semtype=  !NO.semtype1 :definiteness = !
{DET, NO.Compl} (ii)l:comparative = !NO.compl !PREP (iii)?
(i) if tense = present and aspect =habitual and NO is plural then thequantification is distributional; if thetense is present but NO is singular thenthe quantification of the det is collective?
(ii) if the determiner type is possessive ordemonstrative, or the NP containsgenitives, relative clauses, etc..the NP isdefinite?
(iii) this feature keeps track forpredicative constructions like:19. he works as a teachervs.
trabaja como 0 maestroThe final value for definiteness andquantification is the result of the abovementioned calculus that is percolated to the NPnodes.4.
Generators for definitenessIt is straightforward to show that for anydefiniteness configuration there is a determinerassignment in a specific language.
Thegeneration grammar is the inverse process ofthe analysis.
Below some rules:Rule 1 :ifdefiniteness =TNU = Sgsemtype = ~ABSfocus = TthenGer.
= definite DET + NOspan = demonstrative DET + NOfran = demonstrative DET + NP"esta bolsa vs. die Trite"Rule 2:ifgenerics = T267NU = PLQuant = distrib.thenGerm.
= no DET + NP pleng.
= demonstrative DET + NO plspn.
= Definite DET + NO pl"los hombres no lloran"Rule 3:ifgenerics = TNU = sgthenGerm.
= Indefinite DET + NO sgSpn.
= Indefinite DET + NO sg"un hombre no llora"The difference between rules 2 and 3 is that3 is a statement about the fact that somethinghaving the property of being a man does notCD' (is not allowed to cry).5.
SummaryA computational system must anaIyze andgenerate definiteness even for those caseswhere there is no unique referent to look for.Here I assume that definiteness is not theonly function of definite determiners, andthat it would be inadequate to use a bruteforce approach in looking for eitheruniqueness of referents nor uniqueness ofroles as proposed by Bosch & Geurts 89.Definiteness as a semantic value of definitedeterminers i  one of its possible values (thelogical value of the quantifier "only"); morecommon values are distributional, collectivequantification, or a surface phenomenawithin generic constructions, or inconnection with the predicative value.Definiteness is unmarked when placedbefore proper names, and becomes anexistential quantifier when accompanied byan abstract noun.
NPs in directionals andlocals usually have a pragmatic value (formore detail (Loebner 1985)).Romance languages have a higher use of"definiteness" than germanic languages.
Whilethe latter use no article the former use them;while the latter use definite determiners theformer use demonstratives.The internal value, however, remains the same.Compare:20.
Freedom is essentialvs.
la libertad es esencial21.
Love does not existvs.
el amor no existeOr is "love" and "freedom" more "definite" inRomance languages?ReferencesAlonso,A .
1961 : Estilistica y gramatica delarticulo en espa?ol,en Estudios LInguisticos.MadridBarwise,J & R.Cooper: 1981.
GeneralisedQuantifiers and Natural Language.
Linguisticsand Philosphy, 4. p.159-219Benthem van ,J &A.ter Meulen (eds)Generalised Quantifiers.
DordrechtBosch,R & B.Geurts 1989: Proccessingdefinite NPs.
IBM.
Lilog Project.Gardenfors, P (ed) 1987: GeneralisedQuantifiers.
Reidel.DordrechtGeurts, Bart 1985 : Generics, in .
:Journal ofSemantics.
vol.4, p.247Grimm, H.J 1987: LexikonArtikelgebrauch.
LeipzigzumKeenan,E.
& J.Stasvi 1986: A semanticcharacterisation of Natural LanguageDeterminers in: Linguistics and Philosophy, 4p.159-219Loebner Sebastian 1985 : Definites.
In.Journalof Semantics.
vol.4.p.279268MacCawley,J.D 1981 : Everything thatlinguistis have always wanted to know aboutlogic.
Univ.
Chicago PressPeterson, Ph.
1979 : On the logic of few,many and most.
Notre Dame Journal ofFormal Logic 20. p. 155o179Weinl:ich, H. 1976 : Sprache in Texten.
Klett.Stuttgart269
