Lexical Ambigu i tyandThe Role of Knowledge Representat ion  in Lexicon Des ignBranimir BoguraevLexical Systems GroupIBM T.J. Watson Research CenterYorktown Heights, New York 10598James PustejovskyComputer Science DepartmentBrandeis UniversityWaltham, MA 02254AbstractThe traditional framework \['or ambiguity res-olution employs only 'static' knowledge, ex-pressed generally as selectional restrictions ordomain specific constraints, and makes uo useof any specific knowledge manipulation mech-anisms apart from the simple ability to matchvalences of structurally related words.
In con-traust, this paper suggests how a theory of lex-ical semantics making use of a knowledge rep-resentation framework offers a richer, more ex-pressive vocabulary for lexical information.
Inparticular, by performing specialized inferenceover the ways in which aspects of knowledgestructures of words in context c~Ln be composed,mutually compatible and contextully relevantlexieal components of words and phrases arehighlighted.
In the view presented here, lexi-cal ambiguity resolution is an integral part ofthe same procedure that creates the semanticinterpretation of a sentence itself.Keywords: lexical ambiguity, lexical semantics, compo-sitionality, lexical organization.1 Importing KnowledgeRepresentation into the LexiconOur thesis below is that a theory of lexical seman-tics making use of a knowledge representation (KR)framework offers a richer, more expressive vocabu-lary \['or lexical information.
Ultimately the goal ofthis research is to explain the creative use of lan-guage and highlight the role of a constantly evolvinglexicon, while obviating the current prevalent viewsof 'static' lexicon design.
A side effect of adoptingsuch a theory as the basis of semantic interpretationis that some classically difftcult problems in ambigu-ity --.
in particular, lexical - -  are resolved by viewingthem from a different perspective.
In an implemen-tation such as that proposed here, lexical ambiguityresolution is an integral part of the same procedurethat produces the semantic interpretation of a sen-tence.There are several methodological motivations forwanting to import tools developed for computationalrepresentation and manipulation of knowledge intothe si, udy of word meaning, or lexical semantics.
Inparticular, we believe that the goals of computationallinguistics are the same as those of linguistics: to pro-vide useful, testable and explanatory theories of thenature of language and its relation to human cogni-tion a.s a whole.
It follows that computational lin-guistics is linguistics as it should now be done, andthat the computational tools developed and availablein the larger context of Artificial Intelligence shouldnot be ignored by linguists, l"nrthermore, 'shifting'the application area of KR formalisms fi:om their tra-ditional domain (general world knowledge) to a levelbelow words (lexical knowledge), allows us to ab-stract the notion of lexical meaning away from worldknowledge, as well as from other semantic influences(e.g.
discourse and pragmatic factors); such a processof abstraction is a crucial prerequisite of any theoryof lexieal meaning.Bringing in KR tools provides us with several ben-efits, which are inst, rumental to enriching the seman-tics of lexical expressions.
Firstly, it is now possibleto systematically iucorpora.te world knowledge intothe lexical entry, while still maintaining an aware-ness of the boundary between lexical and commonsense knowledge.
Secondly, it is also possible to rea-son over that knowledge, facilitating the constructionof richer semantic interpretations.
I"inally, having de-veloped a theory incorporating eneralizations aboutthe systematic patterning of words, we have a formallanguage for expressing these generalizations.
Theinterplay of these capabilities results in a generativelanguage for expressing the meanings of words, whileproviding a different way of capturing multiple wordsenses through richer composition.
Together with aset of principles for lexical decomposition, whose cen-tral tenet is that semantic expressions for word mean-ing (in context) are constructed by a fixed number ofgenerative devices (cf.
Pustejovsky \[1989b\]), this lan-guage becomes a tool for expressing lexical knowl-edge, while not presupposing finite enumeration ofword senses.Current dictionaries reflect, through their organi-zation, the traditional view of word senses; in particu-lar, they assume that the space of possible/allowableuses of a word is exhaustively carved out by an enu-merable set of senses \['or that word.
Computationallexicons, to date, generally tend to follow this orga-36 I.nization.
As a result, the natural language interl)re-tation tasks these lexica support acquire (or inherit)similar view to lexical ambiguity, which then necessi-tates a particular approach to disambiguation.
Fur-thermore, dictionaries and lexicons currently are ofa distinctly static nature: the division into separateword senses not only precludes permeability; it alsofails to account for the creative use of words in novelcontexts.
In contrast, rather than taking a 'snapshot'of language at any moment of time and freezing itinto lists of word sense specifications, the model ofthe lexicon proposed here does not preclude extend-ability: it is open-ended in nature and accounts forthe novel, creative, uses of words in a variety of con-texts by positing procedures for generating semanticexpressions for words on the basis of particular con-texts.In tbe remainder of this paper we will illustratea particular theory of lexical semantics, followingPustejovsky \[forthcoming\] which promotes the notionof a generative lexicon.
In particular, we brietly dis-cuss certain types of lexical ambiguity, demonstratehow traditional methods of mnbiguity resolution failto scale up for these (and other) cases, and then out-line an approach to sernantie interpretation embody-ing richer methods of compositionality.As we also show below, the lexical model we pro>pose has the effect of greatly reducing the size of thelexicon.
Moreover, it bears directly on issues of o>ganization and content of computational lexicons, asthe model now embodies trong assumptions aboutthe kinds of lexical aspects of words essential for nat-ural language processing.
The generative theory oflexical semantics, then, imposes a strong focus oncurrent efforts to extract lexical data from large on-line text resources (dictionaries and corpora): it notonly offers a uniform representational framework forexpressing the data extracted by the tools and meth-ods of computational lexicography (cf.
Boguraev andBriscoe, \[1989\]), but also offers guidance on tl, e kindsof lexical data - -  or distinctions in ttle lexical be-havior of words --- which should be sought in suchresources (cf.
Boguracv et al, \[1990\]).2 The Nature  of Lexical AmbiguityOne of the most pervasive phenomena in natural an-guage, and one which every realistic language pro-ccssing application faces, is that of ambiguity.
Con-sequently, resolution of lexical ambiguity becomes anessential task, without which deeper (or perhaps any)language understanding and interpretation is impos-sible.2.1 Inadequacy  of  Reso lv ing  Ambigu i ty  byEnumerat ionAs we pointed out earlier, all current computationallexicons lit into a particular processing frameworkfor dealing with this problem.
Assuming a partition.-ing of the space of possible uses of a word into wordsenses - -  as postulated and defined by the entry forthat word - -  the problem becomes that of selecting,on the basis of various contextual factors (typicallysubsumed by, but not necessarily limited to, the no-tion of selectional restrictions), the word sense closestto the use of the word in tile given text.. Computa-tionally, this reduces to a search within a finite spaceof possibilities.Realistically, however, this approach fails on sev-eral accounts - -  both in terms of what informationis made available in a lexicon to drive the disam-biguation process and how an autonlated sense selec-tion procedure might make use of this information.Typically, external contextual factors alone are notsufficient for precise selection of a word sense; ad-ditionally, often the lexical entry does not provideenough reliable pointers to critically discriminate be-tween word senses.
Secondly, the search process be-comes computationally expensive, if not in effect in-tractable, when it has to account for longer phrasesmade up of individually ambiguous words.
Finally,the a~ssumption that an exhaustive listing can be as-signed to the different uses of a word lacks the ex-planatory power necessary for making generalizationsand/or predictions about how words used in a novelway can be reconciled with their currently existinglexical definitions.To illustrate this last.
point, below we present someexamples of problematic nature for current ambiguityresolution frameworks.Creat ive  Use of Words  Consider the ambiguityand context-dependence of adjectives such as fast andslow, where tile meaning of the predicate varies de-pending on the head being modified.
Typically, alexicon requires an enumeration of di/ferent sensesfor such words, in order to account for the ambiguityillustrated below:h a fast car: Ambiguous: a car driven quickly /one that is inherently fast.2: a fast typist: the person performs the act of typ-ing quickly,3: a fast waltz: the motion of the dance is quick.4: a fast book: one that calJ be read in ashort time,5: a fast reader: one who reads quickly.These examples involve at least three distinct wordsenses for the word fasl:fas t ( l ) :  to move quickly;fas t (2 )  : to pertbrm some act quickly;: fast(3)  : to do something that takes little time.
(Note that in a real lexicon, word senses would befurther annotated with selectional restrictions; theseare omitted here for brevity.)
Upon closer analysis,each occurrence of'fast abow., predicates in a slightlydifferent way.
In fact, any finite ennmeration of wordsenses will not account for creative applications ofthis adjective in the language.
For example, fast inthe phrase a fast motorway refers to the ability ofvehicles on the motorway to sustain high speed.
Asa novel use of fast, we are clearly looking at a newsense that is not covered by the enumeration above.Permeab i l i ty  of  Word  Senses Part of our ar-gument for a different organization of the lexicon isbased on a claim that the boundaries between the2 37word senses in the analysis of fast above are too rigid.Still, even if we assume that ennmeration is adequateas a descriptive mechanism, it is not always obvioushow to select he correct word sense in any given con-text: conAder the systematic ambiguity of verbs likebake (discussed by Atkins el el., \[1988\]), which re-quire discrimination with respect to change-of-stateversus create readings:6: John baked the potato.7: John baked the cake.The problem here is that there is too much overlap inthe 'core' semantic omponents of the different read-ings; hence, it is not possible to guarantee correctword sense selection on the basis of selectional re-strictions alone.
Furthermore, as language volve~s,partial overlaps of core and peripheral components ofdifferent word meanings make the traditional notionof word ,~ense, as implemented in current dictionar-ies, inadequate (see Atkins \[1990\] for a critique of thetlat, linear enumeration-based organization of dictio-nary entries).
The only feasible approach would be toemploy considerably more refined distinctions in thesemantic ontent of the complement than is conven-tionally provided by e.g.
the mechanism of selectionalrestrictions.Di f ference in Syntact i c  Forms It is equally arbi-trary to create separate word senses for a lexical itemjust because it can participate in distinct syntacticrealizations - -  and yet this has been the only ap-proach open to computational lexicons which assumethe ambiguity resolution framework outlined above.A striking example of this is provided by verbs such asbelieve and forget.
Observe in (8--11) below that thesyntactic realization of the complement determinesboth the factivity of the proposition in the comple-ment or whether an NP is interpreted as a concealedquestion (see, for example, Grimshaw \[1979\]).8: Mary forgot that she locked the door.9: Mary forgot to lock the door.10: Mary forgot the answer.11: Mary forgot her wallet.Sensitivity to factivity would affect, for instance,the interpretation by a question-answering system,when asked Did Mary lock the door?
Since sentence(8) is factive and (9) is nonfactive, the answers houldbe Yes and No respectively.
Such a distinction couldbe easily accounted for by simply positing separateword senses for each syntactic type, but this missesthe obvious relatedness between the two instances offorget.
If it were possible to make the use of forgetin (8) and (9) sensitive to the syntactic type of itscomplement, hen we could also explain the parallelcases in (10) and (11).
This would allow us to haveessentially one definition for forget which could, bysuitable composition with the different complementtypes, ~eneratc all the allowable readings (cf.
Puste-jovsky \[ 1989a\]).
11 Note that such a treatment is different, in effect, fromproposals to confiate more than one syntactic realizationof the same word sense through the mechanism of type2.2 Towards  a Dynamic  Mode l  of  theLexiconThe major thrust of our analysis has attempted toshow that the ambiguities shown above cannot be ad-equately handled by exhaustive numeration of whatare regarded as different word senses.
It follows thatthe conventional computational framework for lexicalambiguity resolution, and in particular, the formatfor lexical entries in current computational lexicons,fails in at lea,st two respects.
It is unable to describeall the 'senses' of a word through finite enumeration;and it is also unable to capture interesting eneral-izations between 'senses' of the same word.Such failures are partially due to limited (lexical)knowledge made available to natural language pro-cessing systems, as well as to an impoverished notionof (lexical) inference.
Thus, the traditional frame-work for ambiguity resolution only employs 'static'knowledge, expressed as e.g.
selectional restrictions,and no specific knowledge manipulation mechanismsapart from the simple ability to match valences ofconnected words.
In contrast, we show below howa lexical entry can be assigned a richer knowledgestructure and how, by performing specialized infer-encc over the ways in which aspects of knowledgestructures of words in context can be composed, mu-tually compatible and relevant lexical components ofwords and phrases are highlighted.
This process, li-censed by constraints operating through the inferencemechanislns, in fact, results in generating a seman-tic interpretation of a phrase, resolving en route theambiguity of lexical items at their source.3 Ambiguity and CompositionaHtyThe richer structure for the lexical entry proposedhere takes to an extreme the established notionsof predicate-argument structure, primitive decompo-s/tion and conceptual organization; these are thenviewed as defining a space of possible contexts inwhich a word can be used.
Rather than committingto an enumeration of a pre-determined number of dif-ferent word senses, a lexical entry for a word nowencodes a range of deeper aspects of lexical mean-ing.
Looking at a word in isolation, these meaningcomponents simply denote the sernantic boundariesappropriate to its use.
Viewing a word in the con-text of other words, mutually compatible aspects inthe respective lexical decompositions become moreprominent, thus forcing a specific interpretation ofeach individual word.
It is important o realize thatthis is a generative process, which goes well beyondthe simple matching of features.
On the contrary,such a framework requires, in addition to a flexiblenotation for expressing semantic generalizations atthe lexical level, a mechanism for composing theseindividual entries on the phrasal evel.To get a better understanding of how the distinc-tions in lexical meaning manifest hemselves, it is im-coercion -- see Briscoe et el.
\[1990\] for a computationa\]approach, based on a suitably enriched lexical represen-tation and utilizing the notions of type coercion (Puste-jovsky, \[1989a\]) and quzdia structure (see below).38  3portant to study and detine the role that all lexicaltypes play in contributing to the overall meaning of aphrase.
Thi,~ is not just a methodological point: cru-cial to the processes of semantic interpretation whichthe lexicon is targeted for is the notion of composi-I.ionality, necessarily different from the more conven-tional pairing of e.g.
verbs (as functions) and nouns(~ks arguments).
As we indicated earlier, if the seman-tic load in the lexicon is entirely spread among theverb entries - -  as many existing computational sys-tems assume --- differences like those exemplified in(6-7) and (8-11) can only be accounted for by treat-ing bake, forget, and so forth as polysemous verbs.lf, on the other hand, elaborate lexical meanings ofe.g.
verbs and adjectives could be made sensitive tocomponenLs of equally elaborate decompositions ofe.g.
nouns, the notion of spreading the semantic loadevenly across the lexicon becomes the key organizingprirleiple in expressing the knowledge necessary fordisambiguation.In order to be able to express the distinctions, atlexical level, required for analyzing the examples illthe last section, it is necessary to go beyond view-ing lexical decomposition as base.d only on a 1)rc-determiued set of primitives; rather, what is neededis the con bmction of being able to sl;ecify (e.g.
bymeans of sets of predicates) different levels, or per-~;pectives, of lexical representation alid being able tocompose (via a fixed numbe:" of generative devices)these predicates.
A 'static' definition of a word nowonly provides its literal meaning; suitaMe compo-sitions of apl)ropriately 'highlighted' \[)rejections of(syntactically) related words, generate meanings incontext.In such a way, many of the short coufings inparticular those from the perspeetiw', of automaticlanguage processing - of the more descriptive ap-proach inlmrent in exhaustive nunw.ration of wordsenses can be overcome.
What makes this possible isthe combination of two notions, both of them tbllow-ing from general principles of KIt theory.
First, bypositing a language R)r describing dif\[crent levels ofword meanings, we are no longer confined to the con-;:~traints following from operating with a fixed inven-tory of primitives; moreover, we now also haw.'
a wayof incorporating in this language l,he set of rules gov-erning the generative processes.
Secondly, throughthe very nature of these rules, we are assured that the~:~emantic representations ultimately associated withtext (fragments) are going to be well-formed.3.1 Lew?ls of  Lexical Mean ingPustejovsky \[t989b\] proposes everal levels of lexi-cal representation.
Following an analysis of a broadrange of (traditionally ambiguous) constructions, andin particular the aspects of word meanings which ac-count for the ambiguities, he argues for four struc-tures that a theory of computational lexical seman-tics needs to capture.Argmnent  S t ruc ture  This defines the c.ouven-tional mapping fi'om a word to a function, and relatesthe syntactic realization of a word to tile number andtype of arguments that are identified at the level ofsyntax and made use of at tile level of semantics (cf.Grimshaw \[1990\]).Event  S t ruc ture  This identifies the particularevent type for a ve,'b or a phrase.
There are essen-tially three components to this structure: the primi-tive event type --state (S), process (p) or transition(T); the focus of the event; and the rules for eventcomposition.Qual ia S t ruc ture  This defines the essential at-tributes of an object associated with a lexical item.By positing separate components ( ee below) in whatis, in essence, argument structure for nominals, nounsare elevated from the status of being passive argu-ments to active functions.Lexical Inher i tance  St ruc ture  This determinesthe way(s) in which a word is related to other con-cepts in tile lexicon.
In addition to answering ques-tions concerning the organization of a (lexical) knowl-edge base, this level of word meaning makes it possi-ble to link lexieal knowledge with general world (com-mon sense) knowledge.Since the only level of lexical representation notextensively discussed in the literature is that of qualiastructure, we briefly outline its components below.3.2 Qualia S t ruc tureThe essence of tile proposal is that there is a sys-tem of relations that characterizes the semantics of'nominals, very much like the argument structure ofa verb.
Pustejovsky \[1989b\] calls this the QualiaStructure, inspired by Aristotle's theory of explana-tion and ideas from Moravesik \[1975\].
In effect, thequalia structure of a noun determines its meaning tusmuch as the list of arguments determines a verb'smeaning.
The elements that make up a qualia struc-ture include notions such as container, space, surface,figure, artifact, and so on.
2Briefly, the.
Qualia Structure of a word specifies\['our tLspects of its meaning:o the relation between an object and its con-stituent parts;o that which distinguishes it within a larger do=main;o its purpose and fum;tion;o factors inw)lved iu its origin or "bringing it,about".These aspects of a word's meaning are called itsConstitutive Role, I'brmal Role, 2blic Role, andAgentive Role, respectively, a The motivation tbr>I'hese components of an object's denotation havelong been considered crucial for our commonsense under-standing of how things interact in the world.
Cf.
Hayes\[1979\], tlobbs et aL \[1987a\], and Croft \[1986\] for discus-sion of the,;e qualitative aspects of me,thing.agorae of these roles arc reminiscent of descriptorsused by various comptttational researchers, uch as Wilks\[1975\], llayes \[1979\], ~nd Ilol,bs et al \[1987a\].
Withinthe theory outlined here, these roles determine a minimalsemantic description of ~t word which has both semantic~tnd gra.mm~tieal consequences.4 39positing such characterizations of word meaning isthat by enriching the semantic descriptions of nom-inal types, we will be able to "spread the seman-tic load" more evenly through the lexicon, while ac-counting for novel word senses arising in syntacticcomposition.3.3 Lexlcal Ambiguity ResolutionLet us examine how this view is able to accountfor the ambiguities discussed in the previous section.Consider first the example with fast We can capturethe general behavior of how such adjectives predicateby making reference to the richer internal structurefor nominals suggested above.
That is, we can viewfast as always predicating of the :1bile role of a nom-inal.
To illustrate this, consider the qualia structurefor a noun such ~us car:car(*x*)\[Coast:\[Form:\[Telic:\[Agent:{body, engine .
.
.
.
}\]car -  shape (* x* ) \]move(P,*x*), drive(P,y,*x*)\]ar t i fac t  (*x*)\]Notice that the Tell( role specifies the purpose andfunction of the noun.
In the phrase, a fast car, itis the relation specified there (seen as an event - -namely, a process, P) which is modified by tile ad-jective as being fast.
Similarly, for the nouns typ-ist, waltz, book, and reader, it is their 'relic role thatis interpreted as being fast (without going into de-tails, we note here that the Telic role of lypis!
deter-mines the activity being performed, namely typing;similarly for waltz, its Telic role retZrs to (lancing).tlence, the interpretations offast in the examples (1-5) above can all be derived from a siugle word sense,and there is no need for enumerating the differentsenses (cf.
Pustejovsky \[forthcoming\]).
The lexicalsemantics for this adjective will indicate that it actsas an event predicate, modifying the 'relic role of thenoun, as illustrated in the minimal lexical semanticstructure for fast below:fas t ( ,x . )
~ (Tel l( :  AP3E\[fast(E) A f)(E, .x.)
\ ])Notice that, in addition to obviating the need forseparate senses, we can generate the novel use of fastmentioned above in the phrase a fast motorway, sincethe Tell( role of mot.orway specifies its purpose, andit is this activity which is interpreted ~ fast:\ [Tdic : travd(P, cars) A on(P, *x*)\].The composition of the expression defining fast withthe lexical aspect it specifies ms its 'target' - -  the'relic role of its argument (motorway) - -  results inan interpretation corresponding to a use of the wordwhen referring to a road: one that allows for fasttravel by cars.3.4 Implications for Natural LanguageProcessingThe framework proposed above is very attractive forNLP, for at lea~st two reasons.
Firstly, it can be for-malized, and thus make the basis for a computationalprocedure for word interpretation in context.
Sec-ondly, it does not require the notion of exhaustiveenumeration of all the different ways ill which a wordcan behave, in particular in collocations with otherwords.
Consequently, the fi:amework can naturallycope with the 'creative' use of language; that is, theopen-ended nature of word combinations and theirassociated meanings.The method of fine-grained characterization oflexical entries, as proposed here, effectively allowsus to conflate different word senses (in the tradi-tional meaning of this term) into a single meta-ent, ry,thereby offering great potential not only for system-atically encoding regularities of word behavior de-pendent on context, but also for greatly reducingthe size of the lexicon.
The theoretical claim here isthat such a characterization constrains what a possi-ble word meaning can be, through the mechanism oflogically well-formed semantic expressions.
The ex-pressive power of a Kl~.
formalism can then be viewedas simply a tool which gives substance to this claim.4 Knowledge  Representat ion  andG loba l  Organ izat ion  o f  Lex iconSo far we have looked at the "classical" problem ofambiguity of words, manifested in the problem of howto select suitable word senses for a word in runningtext, according to some notion of context.
As wepointed out just now, the solution outlined in theprevious ection, in addition to offering an alternativeway of approachng the problem, has the important'side effect' on the size of the lexicon.In this section we address, at more depth, the ques-tion of how the techniq~es and methods of KR relatedirectly to the problem of lexical ambiguity resolu-tion, the information to bear on it, and the methodsfor solving it.
The discussion is carried out in the con-text of an alternative manifestation of the ,~ame prob-lem, which we refer to as "hiddell" lexical ambiguity.We also use the shine context for presenting, intbr-really, some aspects of the lexical inheritance struc-ture as another level of lexical meaning.
4One of the implications of positing quails struc-tures is the necessity to have, superimposed on thelexicon, a realization of more than one lattice struc-ture.
Earlier attempts at conceptual hierarchies facedthis problem all the time: conceptual models typi-cally make heavy use of multiple inheritance: "book"is_a "literature", "book" is_a "object", "dictio-nary" 2s_a "object", "dictionary" is_a "reference","car" is_a "vehicle .
.
.
.
car" is_a "artifact", and so4Introducing inheritance into the lexicon is not an en-tirely new idea.
For example, Flickinger el al.
\[1985\] dis-cuss the value of inheritance as a representational devicefor capturing eneralizations across classes of lexical en-tries.
A further argument for the usefulness of inheritancemechanisms i provided by Briscoe et hi.
\[1990\], whoshow how a mechanism of lexieal inference can augmenta text analysis systexn which performs yntactic analy-sis and semantic interpretation by making reference todetailed lexical decomposition of entries in the style ofPustejovsky \[1989@40 5forth.
Still, as descriptive as such relations may ap-pear, models like these suffer from a very limited no-tion of lexical structure.
Thus, even though elaboratemechanisms have been proposed to control and limitthe flow of information along the e.g.
generalization/specialization links, there has been no theory to ei-ther (a) explain how to assign structure to lexicalitems, or (b) specify lexical relations between lexicalitems in terms of links between only certain ~pectsof their respective lexical structures.
Pustejovsky'stheory of lexical semantics \[1989b\], with its severaldistinct, levels of semantic description, and in par-ticular the qualia structure, are relevant o just thisissue.On this view, a lexical item inherits infornmtionaccording the qualia structure it carries.
In this way,the different senses for words can be rooted into suit-able lattices.
To illustrate this point, consider thetwo is._a relations below, and the differences in whatrelations the objects enter into.play ( is_a book) (dictionary is_a book)read ok nobuy ok okconsult no okbegin ok(?)
noLexical inheritance theory, oll the other hand,posits a separate lattice per role in the qualia struc-ture.
Briefly, inheritance through qualia amountsto the following relations for this exarnple: bookis_form phys-object, book i s_ te l i c  literature, dic-tionary is-~orm book, dictionary i s_ re l i c  refer-ence, book is._agent literature, dictionary is.agentcompiled-material, play is_agent literature, playi s_ re l i c  performance.
With the qualia roles differ-entiating the lattice structures, we can exclude theunwanted inferences listed above.5 ConclusionWe have outlined a framework for lexical semanticresearch that we believe earl be uselifl for both corn-pvtational inguists and theoretical linguists alike.We argued against he view that word meanings arefixed and inflexible, where lexical ambiguity mustbe treated by multiple word entries in the lexicon.Rather, the lexicon can be seen ~ a generative sys-tem, where word senses are related by logical opera-tions defined by the well-formedness rules of the se-mantics.
In this view, much of the lexical ambigu-ity of highly ambiguous lexical items is eliminatedbecause the semantic load is spread more evenlythroughout the lexicon to the other lexical categories;furthermore, the lexical knowledge we propose as nee-essary for ambiguity resolution is seen ms factored outat different levels of lexical representation.
We lookedat two of these levels, qualia structnre and lexieal in-heritance, as they turn out to be of particular ele-vance to the structuring of the semantic informationcarried by e.g.
nouns and adjectives, and applyingit, via composition, to the construction of semanticinterpretation of complex expressions.
The methodsunderlying the analysis of ambignous phrases and theconstruction of corresponding semantic expressionsmake extended use of Kt{.
devices and techniques.References\[Atkins, 1990\] B. Atkins.
"Building a Lexicon: Rec-onciling An|son\]orphic Sense Differentiations inMachine-Readable Dictionaries", presented atBBN Symposium: Natural Language in the 90's .....Language and Actio~l in the World.\[Atkins el al., 1988\] B. Atkins, J. Kegl,and B. Levin.
"Anatomy of a Verb l'\]ntry", In-ternational Journal of Lexicography, 1(l).\[Boguraev and Briscoe, 1989\] B. Boguraevand E. Briscoc (Eds).
Comp~ltational Lezieograpl~yfor Natural Lan(.l~mge Processi~g, IIarlow, Essex,Longman.\[Boguraev el al., 1990\] B. Boguraev,R.
Byrd, J. Klawms, and M. Neff.
"From Struc-tural Analysis of Lexical Resources to Semanticsin a Lexical Knowledge Base", t~C 15427, IBMT.J.Watson llesearch Center.\[Briscoe l al., 1990\] E. Ilriscoe, A. Copestake, andB.
Boguraev.
"l,exical Semantics via Lexicology",ms. University of (lambridge Computer Labora-tory and IBM T.J.Watson Research Center.\[Croft, 1986\] W. Croft.
Categories and Relations i7 ~,5'y~tax: 7'he Clause-Level OrgaT~ization of h~for-mation, Ph.D.
I)iss., Stanford University, 1986.\[Flickinger et al, 1985\] D. Flickinger, C. Pollard,and T. Wasow.
"St.ructure-Sharing i  Lexical Rep-resentation", Proceedings or 23rd Ammal Meetingof the ACI.., Chicago, IL.\[Grimshaw, 1979\] J. Grimshaw.
"Complement Selec-tion and the Lexicon", Li~g~tistic h~quiry.\[tlayes, 1979\] P.tlayes.
"Naive Physics Manifesto",in Expert 5'ystems i7~ the Micro-Electronic Age,Donald Mitchie (Ed), Edinburgh University Press,Scotland.\[ltobbs et at., 1987a\] J. llobbs, W. Croft, T. Davies,D.
Edwards, and K. Laws.
"Commonsense Meta-physics aud l,exical Semantics", ComputationalLinguistics, 13(3-4\].\[Levin and l{apoport, 1988\]B. Levin and T. l{apoport.
"Lexical Subordina-tion", Proceedi'ags of CLS 24, 275-289.\[Moravcsik, 1975\] J.M.
Moravcsik.
"Aita as Genera-tive Factor in Aristotle's Plfilosophy", Dialogue.\[Pustejovsky, 1989a\] J. Pustejovsky.
"Type Coercionand Selection", paper at West Coast Conferenceon Formal Linguistics, Vancouver, 1989.\[Pustejovsky, 1989b\] J. Pustejovsky.
"Tile Genera-tive Lexicon", ms. Brandeis University.\[Pustejovsky, forthcoming\] J. Pustejovsky.
The Gen-erative Lexicon: A 73eory of Comp~ttational Lexi-cal Sema~tics, MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.\[Wilks, 1975\] Y. Wilks.
"An Intelligent Analyzer andUnderstander for li;nglish", CACM, 18, 264-274.6 41
