A Formal Description of Arabic Syntax in Definite Clause GrammarHisham E1-SllisMnyIBM Scientific Center, 56, Gameaat El-Doual EI-Arabeya St.Mohandesseen, Cairo, EgyptAbstractArabic has some special syntax featureswhich lead to complex syntax structures.We have developed a formal descriptionof Arabic syntax in Definite Clause Gram-mar.
This grarnrnar is characterized by itshigh descriptive power due to its dual for-mulation in terms of functions and interms of grammatical categories.
The de-veloped grammar has a high coverage ofArabic language and has context sensitivecapabilities.
It is suitable for the advancedapplications of natural language process-ing.1o IntroductionArabic has some features which lead tocomlpex syntax different from those of theEuropean languages.
Moreover, Arabicgrammar exists cmly in a descriptive formand there is no comprehensive formal rep~resentation for it so far.The few attempts to give a formal mod-e~ for Arabic sentences were based ontransformational generative grammar -\[111, \[2\], \[3\] and o thers -but  some linguistsadopted more recent l inguist ic modelssuch as Lexical Functional Grammar \[4\],dependency grammar \[5\] and functionalgrammar 16\].Selecting a suitable grammar formalismfor Arabic and the formulation of thegrammar itself is the subject of a big de-bate in the Arab countries nowadays.
Ourdescriptio:n of Arabic syntax in DefiniteClause Grammar is different from the at-tempts undertaken so far.2.
Deft,ire clat,se gram,,ar for ArabicsyntaxIn this grammar, the arguments of nonterminals are used to hold special featuresof Arabic words such as the definitely orindefinitely determined feature of normswhich is essential to recognize manystructures.
Also, the ability of DefiniteClause Grammar to provide a generaltreatment of context sensitivity throughthe proper use of arguments of non termi-nals makes it easy to account for agree-meats such as number, gender and personagreements.Another important characteristic ofl)efinite Clause Grammar, which suits Ar-abic, is the possibility of imposing extraconditions on the constituents of a phrasewhich must be satisfied for a rule to bevalid \[7\].3.
The develol,ed /ormal g,'ammarDue to the fact that there is IIO singlebasic word order for Arabic sentences,three basic sentence types were defined:a. Nominal sentence: a sentence that doesnot contain a verb or contains a verbwhich follows the subject.b.
Verbal sentence: a sentence that con-tains a verb which precedes the sub-ject.c.
Sentences with special structures uchas vocative sentences.Sentences are further classified func-tionally and according to their modalities.Larger sentences are also described inthis grammar by conjoining sentences orembedding simpler sentences.We have used the grammatical catego-ries together with the functional roles todefine the syntactic structures.
Grammati-cal categories alone were considered notsufficient to describe all the structures345since word categories in Arabic are global-ly classified into verbs, nominals and par-ticles only.
Nouns, adjectives and adverbsfor example are differentiated in tt'te sen-tence according to their functions.This dual formulation increases the de-scriptive power of the grammar.
In orderto use this dual formulation to define thesyntactic structures, some non standarddefinitions of grammatical categories wereused.A nominal sentence (ns) is defined for-mally as composed from a 'mobtadaa'phrase, mbp, and a predicate phrase,predp:ns(ns(MBP, PREDP)) -~ mbp (N,G,m,-., MBP), predp (N,G,n,PREDP).A mbp is defined as a noun phrase (np)that can have 'motaalkat' which are eithera prepositional phrase (PP) or adverbial.A predp can be one of the following:?
a noun phrase that can have 'motaal-kat'?
a prepositional phrase or adverbial- a sentence which can be :- a verbal sentence- a nominal sentence (under certainconditions).Verbal sentences (vs) can be followedby either a subject phrase, sp, or a subjectphrase and a complement phrase, cop:vs(vs(VP))-~ vp(T,V,S,I',VP).vs(vs(VP,SP,COP)) + vp(T,a,S,P,VP),sp(-,-,S,-,P,SP),cop(M,COP),{M=<T}cop(o,cop(\[ 1))-~ I 1.For verbs in the passive voice the sp isreplaced by 'naabfael' phrase (nsp), whichcan be either a np or pp.For non-terminal argument definitionsthe reader is referred to sections 3.1.1.,3.1.2 and 3.1.3.
Tlle values of the argu-ments indicated above are: a for activevoice, n for indefinite determination, mfor definite determination a d - for accep-tance of any value.Verb phrases (vp) are defined as follows:vp --~ (cop), (particle), verb, (cop).whereas noun phrases (rip) are defined asfollows:np -~ (particle), noutL (post-moditiers).Subject phrases are noun phraseswhereas complement phrases modify theverbs and are one or more noun phrases(such as tile direct object) and/or  preposi-tional phrases.The cop category is used to cater for thecases where the sp separates the verbfrom some of its modifiers, which is acharacteristic of Arabic syntax.Sentences with special structures haw,,different structures which vary from onecase to anotller.Sp and cop can be relative pllrases andin some cases the predp can precede thembp.
Categories with no equivalent inEnglish are indicated between singlequotes and categories inside the bracketsare optional.3.1.
Non Terminal mgu,tentsNon-terminal arguments are used tohold features of Arabic words necessaryfor recognizing some structures and forallowing agreements between the differ-ent costituents of the sentence.
Argumentsare introduced in the lexical entries ofwords and are inherited by the phrase inwhich the words are constituents, h't thisgrammar, arguments are defined as fol-\]OWS:3.1.1.
Arguments associated With verbsT transitivity, V voice, P person, S se-mantic feature.3.1.2.
Arguments associated with nounsN number, G gender, D definite or in-definite determination, I:' person, S seman-tic feature.3.1.3.
Arguments associated with pronounsN number, G gender, P person.M is an argument associated with senrenon-terminals to test the possibility ofmodifying a verb witll objects.3.2.
Use of semantic features to reduceambiguity in Arabic senstences.Semantic features art, used with verbs346and nouns in order to test the subject verbsemantic agreement.The use of the described semantic fea-tures in the developed grammar helps inthe diifferentiation between the subjectand the object in Arabic sentences, ince itis not possible on purely grammatical ba-sis (except in some exceptional cases) todifferentiate between them.3.3.
ExamplesIn this section, examples of the syntac-tic structures of a nominal sentence and averbal sentence according to the devel-oped grammar are given.3.3.1.
Example  of a nomina l  sentence :Which means:the big dog is in the garden.In arabic, the definite article is a prefix,there is no copulative verb and directionof writing is from right to left.SIS / \pF p 7 ppp np~ p ad} nounI I I Ithe garden in big the dog3.3.2.
Example  of a verba l  sentence :Which means:the boy drinks the water in the housev,~cop  sp .-copIPP / \np np np pI r Ithe water  the child the house invLdr inks4.
ConclusimlThis grammar has been implemented ina syntactic analyzer \[8\] developed in Pro-log on a 1'C/XT-286 and tested on a largenumber of Arabic sentences.It is hoped that the developed grammarwill contribute to the efforts undertakenrecently in the Arab countries towards thedevelopment of a comprehensive, agreedupon, formal grammar for Arabic syntax.References\[1\] Bakir M. 'Aspects of clm,se structure in Arabic: astudy of word order variation in literacy Arabic',Ph.d., Indiana University, 1980.\[2l AI-Khuli M.'A contrastive transformational gram-mar: Arabic and English', Leiden: Britl, 1979.
}3\] Ayoub G.'Structure de la phrase verbale en Arabestandard', Ph.D., in: Analysis/Theories, 1981.14l Fehri F. 'Complementation ct amophore n Arabemoderne: t,ne approche lexlcale fonctionnelle',These de Doctorat d'Etat, Univcrsitc dc Paris 3,1981.\[5\] Owens J.
'Structure, (:lass and Dependency: Modernlinguistic them y and the Arabic grammatical tradi-tion', in: Lingua 64, 198,1.\[6) Mout(makil A.
'Pragmatic functi(ms in a {unctionalgrammar of Arabic', Dordrecht: Forts Publicatiolls,1989.\[71 Pereira F., Warren D 'Definite clause grammar forlanguage analysis- A survey of the formalism and acomparison with transition networks', Artificial In-telligence, Vol.
13, pp.
231 - 278, 1980.\[8\] Hisham E1-Shishiny.
'A syntactic analyzer for Ara-bic sentences', IBM-CSC Technical Report # 32,1989.347
