A Computational Modelfor Arguments UnderstandingSt~phane Guez (*)Department of Computer ScienceUniversity of RochesterRochester, NY 14627 (USA)1.
IntroductionThis paper presents a computational model for theunderstanding of arguments in natural languagedialogues.
Previous work on argumentation inArtificial Intelligence has been mainly focused on theconceptual aspects.
But argumentation is also alinguistic phenomenon.
Language providesstructures to express arguments, to orient theargumentative interpretation of utterances, or topresent a new concept or a new piece of informationas an argument in favor of or against a certainconclusion, independently of the actual contents ofthese propositions.
Argumentation also affects thediscourse structure.
The order in which argumentscan be uttered is constrained.The purpose of this paper is to describe the differentaspects of argumentation, and to propose a modelwhich integrates the different levels of analysis ofargumentative phenomena: the conceptual level, thelinguistic level, and the discourse level.2.
What is Argumentation?The study of argumentation involves theunderstanding of the propositional content ofutterances, as well as the analysis of their linguisticstructure, the relations with the preceding andfollowing utterances, the recognition of the underlyingconceptual beliefs, and general understanding withinthe global coherence of the discourse.
Argumentativeanalysis relies on several sources of knowledge:linguistic constraints, domain dependent conceptualrelations, and discourse structure.
None of them issufficient by itself for a complete analysis, but they allcontribute to it, especially if one source of informationis incomplete, for instance if the beliefs of thespeaker are unknown or unusual or if the semanticcontent is ambiguous.
In any dialogue, one of thesesources may be missing, without preventing thespeakers from fully understanding the statementsand positions of the other participants in theconversation, providing that the speakers remaincoherent in the way they organize and express theirbeliefs.It is not possible to view argument understanding asa linear process, going from syntactic and semanticanalysis to conceptual interpretation and globalpragmatic understanding.
In many cases, the verypurpose of a conversation is to allow the participants(*) Current address of the author: BULL - CEDIAG, 68Route de Versailles, 78430 Louveciennes (France).E-mail: guez@cediag.bull.fr132to present their views on a subject.
Therefore, thehypothesis that the other participants can rely on acomplete description of the beliefs of the speakers tofully understand their arguments does not hold in realsituations.
But the linguistic structure of thearguments may often be analyzed independently oftheir content, and reveal constraints from which wecan derive the information that can make up for thesegaps in the knowledge about the domain and thespeakers beliefs and intentions.
A complete rnodel ofargument understanding must also include a modelof learning.
It is our intention to focus on nonconceptual sources of knowledge, main\[y thestructural constraints which can provide essentialinformation to understand arguments.An argumentative analysis is aimed at understandinghow the arguments relate to each other: what is said,in favor of which proposition, based on which beliefsand towards which intention.Consider the following example, adapted from\[Cohen 1987\]:Jones has lots of experience.
(i)He has been on the board  i0 years.
(2)And he's refused bribes.
(3)So he's honest.
(4)He would real ly make a good president.
(5)To understand this discourse is to figure out howpropositions relate to and support each other:(2) - - ->  (1) - - - \.
.
.
.
> (5)(3) ---> (4) - - - /Prior conceptual knowledge about the domain, aswell as the discourse properties of so and and helpsto guess at once the structure of the arguments inthe sequence of statements in this example.
A closeranalysis may also reveal that we do not really need acomplete prior knowledge of all the conceptualrelations involved in the example.
The use of so in(4) not only informs us that the following propositionis given as conclusion of the previous one (3), andnot the other way around, but also tells us that this isthe only reasonable possibility.
Any proposition in (4)had to be a valid conclusion for (3) and we couldhave learned from the entire sequence that thespeaker views refusing bribes as a definite reason todeclare someone honest.Consider now the following dialogue between twospeakers planning a big family reunion:A: How about ask ing your sister to cometoo?
(al)B: The kids wi l l  love to see theircousins.
(bl)B~d; it 's such a long trip.
(b2)Besides you know how I feel about myl>rothez~in-law.
(b3)(b3) contains a strong semantic ambiguity, thoughthe reader will not have any doubt about its overallmeaning: it is a rejection of (all.
But how I feel maymean I don't like him as well as I like hhrJ.
Theinterpretation must rely on contextual information andstructural properties.
A careful argumentativeanalysis reveals that the structure of the dialogue (xbut Y bes ides  Z) strongly constrains theinterpretation of (b3) almost independently of theactual content of (b3).
Let us consider two variants ofB's last reply:B: Besides, I wil l  enjoy seeing mynephews.
(b4)B: Besides, you know how I love mynephews.
(bS)(b4) sounds like an incoherent statement, while (bh)could only be interpreted as sarcasm (how I lovewould just mean Ihate).
The linguistic structure is sostrong that, whatever follows the final besides, it canonly be interpreted as an argument to reject (all andwe do not need any prior knowledge about B'sbeliefs to understand this dialogue.3.
Knowledge Sources for the Analys is  ofArguments3.1.
The Conceptual Analysis of ArgumentsArtificial Intelligence work on argumentation hasbeen essentially focused on the conceptual level,mainly because the argumentative analysis of naturallanguage dialogues has been generally consideredas a conceptual only problem.
So previous workemphasizes problems related to the logical structureof arguments and the representation of domainknowledge.
Arguments are propositions supportingother propositions, and the analysis of a discourseresults in a tree showing how propositions areexpressecI in favor of or against each other, relativeto a knowledge base of basic relations andarguments.\[Flowers 1982\] proposes to represent the history of adialogue between two opponents in an argumentgraph and studies the strategy to generate the bestnext turn.
The analysis is strictly conceptual andlinguistic issues are mostly ignored.Robin Cohen proposes a model for theunderstanding of arguments in discourse \[Cohen1984, Cohen 1987\].
In her perspective, all therelations between arguments which are understoodfrom the given text must be supported by conceptualknowledge of general or particular beliefs about whatis a good argument for what.
Given a sequence ofstatements, the question is to figure out how thepropositions relate to each other.
For a sequence oftwo related propositions, the first proposition maysupport the second proposition given as conclusion,or the other way around: the conclusion is given firstand its justification fellows.
With more statements,the complexity of the computation increasesdramatically as both schemes may be mixed and asmore than one proposition may be expressed tosupport a conclusion.
She give~ an algorithm to buildthe underlying conceptual structure incrementallywhich takes into account the role of clue words tolimit the search about where the current sentenceshould be attached in the structure.
The wholeprocess relies heavily on the information provided byan "Evidence Oracle".
The oracle contains a list ofevidence relations, and given two propositions, tellswhether the first one can be given as an argumentfor the other.3.2.
L imits  of the Conceptual Ana lys isThe major difficulty raised by an exclusivelyconceptual treatment of argumentation is theproblem of incomplete knowledge.
If we do not useany other source of information or constraints aboutthe discourse, only arguments supported by priorknowledge recorded in the knowledge base can berecognized and properly understood.
Thus in suchsystems, the assumption is made that the completeset of beliefs of the speaker is available.
We considerthis assumption too strong to be fully acceptable, notonly because it seems difficult to represent such alarge and complex amount of knowledge, but morefundamentally because in many cases the verypurpose of argumentative discourse is to presentnew arguments never expressed before, to revealthe beliefs and intentions of the speaker, and topresent, for the first time, certain propositions asarguments in favor or against certain conclusions.In general, incomplete knowledge about the beliefs ofthe speaker does not prevent the hearer from fullyunderstanding all the arguments.
In fact, newknowledge is learned while the understandingprocess is taking place.
On the other hand,misunderstanding is a rather common phenomenonin human communication, and there ismisunderstanding as soon as the speaker'sdiscourse relies too much on knowledge which is notexplicitly stated or on implicit relations which are notshared by the hearer.
It should be also noted that it iscommon for the participants in an argumentativedialogue to intentionally use locally ambiguousformulations to express their views, while the overallorientation of their discourse is perfectly clear to thehearer.Another major issue is whether or not to considerarguments as logical implications.
To a certainextent, the natural relation "supports" shares some ofthe properties of the logical implication.
Of course,this relation only makes sense when there is asemantic connection (or even a causal relation)between the terms, while the truth value of animplication is completely independent from thesemantics of the propositions it connects.
If it isacceptable to a certain extent to considerargumentative relations as logical implications and toperform logical inferences on them during theunderstanding process, very often it will be used forthese inferences uncertain knowledge, defaultgeneral relations, assumed knowledge or evenrelations which have just been learned and do nothave a very high level of plausibility.
It seems at leastappropriate to be careful about a logical treatment ofargumentation in a general model of argumentunderstanding which intends to take into accountother aspects of argumentative phenomenon,beyond the conceptual aspects.1333,3.
The Linguistics of ArgumentationThe linguistic level has been relatively neglected inAI work on argumentation.
Flowers, though dealingwith natural language dialogues, makes almost noaccount of the linguistics of argumentation.
If RobinCohen proposes a linguistic analysis of the structureof argumentative discourse, she seems moreconcerned with discourse structure than withargumentation per se.
She studies the role of cluewords, but essentially their effect on the organizationof discourse.
This study is very interesting since itreveals many constraints imposed by the use of cluewords on the order and structure of arguments.
Forinstance, any proposition following phrases like inparticular or in addition will go in the same directionas the previous part of the discourse and provideadditional arguments in favor of the point defendedby the speaker.
The study also shows very well thatthere are rules about how arguments in favor of thepoint in case or against it can be mixed or organizedinto a coherent discourse.
But the step Robin Cohendoes not make is to truly take into account theargumentative value of clue words, in order to avoida systematic use of the Evidence Oracle.
Because ofits perspective, her work sometimes ignoresproperties of clue words which specifically affectargumentation.Outside of AI research, Oswald Ducrot hasdeveloped a linguistic theory of argumentation\[Anscombre & Ducrot 1983\].
His concern is not tostudy the conceptual structure of arguments raisedby two opponents in a debate, but how linguisticstructures affect argumentation.
His contribution tothe study of argumentation is part of a largerframework, referred to as "integrated pragmatics",whose goat is to demonstrate that linguisticstructures (syntax) and pragmatics must be takeninto account together in the process of discourseunderstanding.According to Ducrot, language provides specificstructures to express arguments and constrain thediscourse.
Certain words orient the argumentativeinterpretation and the continuation of the discourse,independently of the informative content it may carry.Ducrot identifies the linguistic constraints which rulethe presentation of a proposition P used to make thehearer accept a conclusion C. It is not enough that Pbe conceptually a good reason to accept C: thelinguistic structure of the utterance of P must alsosatisfy certain conditions in order for it to be, in thecurrent discourse, an argument for C. For example,to say even A is to present A as an argumentoriented towards some conclusion C and strongerthan the arguments presented so far.
It isindependent of the content of A and whether A isreally a good argument to defend the conclusion C.Ducrot's work does not specifically concern cluewords, but any linguistic "operator" which may affectargumentation.
The argumentative features ofoperators that are described at the linguistic level canbe viewed as constraints that affect the interpretationof utterances containing such linguistic structures.For example, to say A but B is to present A as anargument in favor of some conclusion C and topresent B as an argument in favor of the oppositeconclusion not C. The overall argumentativeorientation of A but B is not C. This description of theuse of but is independent of the actual instantiation of134the argumentative variables A, B and C. Thisdescription takes into account the pragmatic role ofbut and is more general and precise than thetraditional description where A and B are just viewedas propositions with some kind of opposition.A very interesting point raised in Ducrors theory isthe distinction and the independence between theinformational level and the argumentative level, as itis developed in \[Raccah 1987\].
The argumentativeuse of an utterance depends only partially on theinformational content of this utterance.
In particular, itis very often the case that while the utterance of aproposition P may provide very good reasons toaccept a conclusion C, it is impossible to use P in adiscourse as an argument in favor of C. For instance,if the utterance You are nearly on time carries theinformation You are late, it cannot be used as areproach and followed by something like You mustapologize.
The linguistic structure, in this case theuse of nearly (it would be the same with almost),constrains a proposition to produce an argumentativeeffect exactly opposite to what could be expectedfrom a strictly logical analysis of the propositionalcontents.
Consider now the two propositions This carbums little oil and This car burns a little oil: they carryexactly the same propositional content, but if weagree with the belief that to burn oil is not a goodthing for a motor, then we can very well say This carbums a little oil but the motor is in good shape, whileThis car burns little o# but the motor is in good shapesounds inappropriate, which can only be explainedby the linguistic structure used: a combination of littleor a little with but.
If we assume that speakers areperfectly coherent, the latter utterance can even beinterpreted as the expression of the belief that toburn oil is a good thing.
Someone who really knowsnothing about car mechanics would very likelyinterpret things that way.
Argumentation is not at allexclusively determined by the conceptual relationsbetween the content of propositions.However, the studies of Ducrot on connectives areoften long and thorough and reveal subtle aspectswhich go far beyond any possible reasonableformalization attempt.
Raccah \[Raccah 1987\] madeseveral contributions to provide a rigorous andformalized account of this work.
Though he isconcerned with applications within an ArtificialIntelligence framework, his main goal is to definetheoretical semantics of natural language.
He has nottry to define the role argumentation could play in anintegrated computational model, and his attemptstherefore cannot be articulated within a larger theoryof context or a model of discourse processing.3.4.
The Structure of ArgumentativeDiscourseThe structure of argumentative discourse is alsoconstrained by the rules which apply to anydiscourse, and the same concepts can be used todescribe it \[Grosz & Sidner 1986\].
The analysis ofcontextual information is essential and notions suchas the focus have their counterpart in argumentativedialogues: keeping track of what is currently theobject of the debate contributes to the dialoguesegmentation.
The continuity of the point in caseprovides an additional criterion for the definition of asegment in argumentative discourse.3Robin Cohen's work shows how clue words affect theorder in which arguments are uttered, and sheidentifies rules which constrain the structure ofargumentative discourse.
Argumentation isessentially a relational phenomenon: how do thepropositions which are uttered in a discourse relateto each other.
Ducrot's work directly addresses thispoint: it is a study of the constraints that rule theorientation and continuation of discourse.
Thediscourse structure provides a framework in whichnew propositions are attached to when they areanalyzed.3.5.
hltegrating the Analysis of ArgumentsMost of the work on argumentation that we havepresented is usually mainly focused on one aspect ofargumentation and tends to reduce the wholeproblem to these aspects.
From all the examples wehave previously mentioned, it becomes clear thatunderstanding arguments is not only or specifically aconceptual problem, nor is it a linguistic problem, butit is a combination of conceptual, linguistic anddiscourse issues that must be dealt withconcurrently.
An "argumentative operation" occurswhen an explicit proposition is presented in favor ofor against another proposition, which may remainimplicit.
An argumentative operation is characterizedby the propositional content of the argument, thelinguistic structure used to express it, and thediscourse context in which it is uttered.We view the argumentative analysis of a dialogue asthe identification of the argumentative operations inthis dialogue, along with the explicitation of theconstraints and relations which support eachoperation, at the linguistic, conceptual and discourselevels.
Our model then consists of several modules,each one providing an analysis which contributes tothe understanding of argumentative operations.
Hereis a brief description of each level of analysis:?
At the Linguistic Level, the use of connectives isanalyzed as constraints put on the interpretation ofdiscourse.
Knowledge consists mainly of a detaileddescription of the properties of linguistic structureswhich play an argumentative role.At the Conceptual Level, the conceptualstructure of the arguments is analyzed.
Theknowledge base contains common sense relations,hierarchies of concepts and argumentativerelations distributed in different belief spaces.
Italso describes the relative strength of arguments.This level has also the ability to make hypotheseson new beliefs and check their plausibility.- At the Discourse Level, the discourse structure isbuilt incrementally and the position of eachutterance within the structure is recorded.
Thislevel of analysis keeps track of the argumentativefocus of the discourse as well as constraints whichhold through several sentences.The essential idea is to integrate the different levelsof analysis of argumentative discourse in order tocome out with an interpretation which is coherentwith all these levels, within each level and betweenthem.
'The constraints described at the linguistic leveldefine relation of coherence between the linguisticstructure and the propositional content of utterances.We do not consider each participant in the dialogueas a perfectly logical actor, but only relations whichare consistent with the current content of the basescan be hypothesized when conceptual knowledge ismissing.
The analysis of the discourse structure isused to maintain the global coherence of thediscourse.
In general, we will always consider thateach participant in a dialogue only utters coherentstatements.A complete theory of argumentation must include atheory of learninq.
Learning new conceptualknowledge, in the course of the argumentativeanalysis, occurs when linguistic and discourseconstraints can balance the lack of appropriateconceptual relations to interpret a particularutterance.
The identification of new argumentativerules may raise conflicts between local and globalcoherence.
Consistency with previously existingknowledge must be checked before integratinglearned rules into the base.
It is acceptable toconclude that a speaker does not follow a commonbelief, but a speaker can not contradict him/herself.4.
A Computational ModelOur model consists of several module.
Each modulecontributing to the general understanding process byproviding a specific set of constraints resulting fromthe analysis of the input:- the Conceptual Base contains all the domainconceptual relations.
It is divided in severalspaces, one for general common knowledgeshared by all actors, except otherwise specified,and one space for each speaker to record his/herparticular beliefs.- the Relation Finder derives appropriate relationsfrom the conceptual knowledge represented incanonical form.the Base of Linguistic Constraints describeseach argumentative operator.- the Context Analyzer keeps track of the local andglobal topic of the conversation, the argumentativeorientation of the current or previous segment, andincrementally builds the discourse structure.- the Argumentative Analyzer actually computesthe argumentative orientation of an utterance or acomplete turn, taking into account the contextualconstraints as well as the linguistic constraints..- the Learning Module is activated when there is agap in the available conceptual knowledge,resulting in the impossibility to account for thecoherence of the current turn in the dialogue.
Thismodules makes hypotheses for new relations andchecks their plausibility and consistency with whatis already known.
The Learning Module is able toupdate the belief space of the current speaker.4.1.
Representation of ConceptualKnowledgeConceptual knowledge is made essentially of factsand rules.
Facts concern independent propositions,while rules describe argumentative relations betweenpropositions.
For instance:weather (new-york, fine)argument (for, wok'ks-hard (X) ,good-student (X))argnment (against, lazy (X) ,good-student (X))135We use the operator "opposite" to consider theopposite of a proposition.
This operator is not thelogical negation, but we have the following rules ofequivalence:arg~ment (against, A, B) i8 equivalent toargument (for,A, opposite (B))argument (against, A, B) is equivalent toargument (for, opposite (A) , B)opposite (opposite (X)) iS equivalent to xKnowledge is distributed into different belief spaces.By default, general knowledge is shared by theactors.
Knowledge about semantic hierarchies isindependent from belief spaces.It is very important to insist that argumentationrelations can not be assimilated to logical operatorsand manipulated as such.
The argumentative relation"in favor of" is not processed as a logical implication.Truth values do not matter very much to interpretarguments, since we are mostly interested in therelations between propositions.
In fact, the truthvalue of individual propositions matters all the lessthat in general, nothing can be logically deducedfrom the combinations of facts and argumentativerules.An argumentative rule in not a description of the setof conditions that must be met for a certainconclusion to be true.
A rule only defines oneargument for a conclusion: it usually is a partialargument.
If this argument holds, there may be at thetime other arguments which hold and go against thesame conclusion.
This is the very source of anyserious argumentative debate: opponents will raisearguments which are believed, by both, to hold, butwhich go in opposite directions concerning the pointof the debate.For instance, nice weather is surely a good argumentto go for a walk, though it is not a sufficient conditionto take such a decision.
A lot of work to do is a verygood argument which goes against the suggestion ofa walk.
Both "nice weather" and "a lot of work" canhold together, and there is no way to make any validreasoning to conclude about going or not going for awalk.
A speaker could express both facts in adiscourse: what we need to understand his/her pointis information about which fact is held as anargument stronger than the other.The need for ways to compare the relative strengthof arguments illustrates once again theinappropriateness of a logical model to handle theprocess of understanding arguments.
It is the relativestrength of propositions towards a certain conclusionwhich determines the outcome of the discourse.
Thepredicate s t ronger  asserts the relative strength ofarguments towards the same conclusion.
It takesthree arguments, the two propositions to becompared and the conclusion intended by these twopropositions.
The predicate S?
ronger-oppasserts the relative strength of arguments towardsopposite conclusions.
It takes three arguments, thetwo propositions to be compared and the conclusionintended by the first one (while the secondproposition intends the opposite of the givenconclusion).
For instance:stronger(need-exerclse, nice-weather,go-for-a-walk)stronger-opp(lot-of-work, nice-weather,136opposite(go-for-a-walk))4.2.
Representation of Linguistic KnowledgeOur model uses first order logic to describe relationsand constraints.
We represent the knowledgeattached to argumentative operators as a list of localconstraints which are satisfied when the operator isused.
For but and almost, we have for instance:(A but B)argument(for,A,C)argument(against,B,C)stronger-opposite(B,A, opposite(C))argumentative-orientation(operator(but,A,B), opposlte(C))(almost A)argument(for,A,C)argumentative-orientation(operator(almost,A), C)The predicate argumentative-orientationis used to assert the final orientation of an expressioncontaining an operator or a connector.
Theorientation is given as a propositional content.
Theconstraints which are not explicitly present when theexpression is uttered are assumed to be asserted atthe time of the utterance.4.3.
Representation of Discourse StructureThe input and output uses the same basic datastructure, which is a complete description of thedialogue.
The structure is augmented whenconstraints are taken into account and conclusionsfound.
Descriptions use a features list format.The dialogue is described as a hierarchy, accordingto the segmentation of the dialogue between turns(complete intervention of one speaker) and individualutterances.
Initially, the structure only contains inputinformation about the first utterance.The hierarchical structure is then built incrementally.Information is added as soon as it is available, as theresult of the analyses performed on the input.
Withinthe discourse structure, at each level, the topic andthe argumentative orientation are recorded.4.4.
Algorithm for the Analysis of ArgumentsThe analysis of a dialogue is performed as anincremental process.
The basic algorithm consists ofthe following steps:- listing the contextual constraints- listing the linguistic constraints resulting from theuse of clue words- searching for argumentative relations coherentwith the previous constraints- computation of the argumentative orientationIt is extended to include the computation ofcontextual constraints and the derivation andlearning of new conceptual relations.
We keep trackof a global topic as well as a local topic, oftenidentified as the argumentative orientation of thecurrent segment.
An analysis is first attempted usingthe available concepts, and if it fails, the hypothesismechanism is activated.
Hypotheses added to abelief space can be later retracted to satisfy globalcoherence.
Hypotheses may be made about missingconceptual knowledge, even in the case where thesenew relations are incompatible with default commonknowledge, as long as this process results in a globalinterpretation which accounts for the coherence ofthe current utterances.
The plausibility andconsistency of new hypotheses are checked bylooking for possible contradictions with existingknowledge, interpreting for this task argumentativerelations as logical implications.5.
Implementation and ExampleWe have realized an implementation in Prolog.
It isable to analyze a dialogue, to computeargumentative orientations and to learn newconceptual relations when necessary.
Thesyntactic/sernantic analysis is not implemented.Dialogues are represented with features structures.The discourse constraints are represented as a set ofrules in Prolog describing the process of any newutterance.
For each operator, a set el linguisticconstraints is listed.
It is a list of conditions to besatisfied to complete the processing of the currentutterance.Here is a trace of the automatic processing of thesecond example given in the introduction:U1 string: "Mow about asking your sisterto co,r4~ too?
(al) "content: ask sister to come(b)mode: suggest ionor ientat ion: ask sister to come(b)U2 string: "The kids wil l  love to seetheir  cousins.
(bl)"content: kids love to see cousinsmode: af f i rmat ionargument :arg~n~ent (for, kids love to see cousins,ask sister to come(b))or ientation: ask sister to come(b)U3 striLng: "But it is such a long trip.
( b2 ) "operator: butcontent: long tr ipmode: af f i rmat ionargument s :ai:fp/ment (against, 1 ong t rip,ask sister to come(b))or ientat ion:opposite (ask slster to come(b))U4 string: "Besides you know how I feelabout my brother- in- law.
(b3) "operator: besidescontent :how feel about brother  in law(b,bad%% at the beginning~the second argument is%% non hlstanZlatedmode: af f i rmat ionargument s :argt~ment ( for,how feel about brother  in law(b,bad)opposi te (ask sister to come(b)))or ientat ion:opposite (ask sister to come(b))%% the final orientation of B% turn is given%% by the orientation of the last uttersnceIf we replace (b3) by (b3'):B: Besides yo~1 know :I: fee.\], good abo~t ~Lybrother-in--\] aw.
(b3 ' )the system will finds a coherent interpretation, bymaking the following hypothese:Asser t ing  the NEW ARGI/MENT:hyp argt~ent (against,hot~ feel about brother  in law (b, good) ,ask sister to come(b))6.
Conclus ionWe have proposed a computational model whichprovides a more complete account of argumentationin discourse than what has been proposed before.Major directions for future work concernirnprovements in the description of linguisticoperators, and the integration within a larger modelof discourse processing which would include speechacts analysis and plan recognition \[Allen & Perrault1980\].
Within this context, we believe our work to bea useful contribution to the automatic processing ~,fnatural language dialogues.ReferencesAlien, J.
& Perrault, R.Analyzing Intentions in Uterrances.Artificial Intelligence Journal, 15(3):143-178, 1980.Anscombre, J.C. & Ducrot, O.L'argumentation dans la langue.Pierre Mardaga, Bruxelles, 1983.Cohen, R.A Computational Theory of the Function of ClueWords in Argument Understanding.Proceedings of COLING 84, pages 251 --258,Stanford, California, July 1984.Cohen, R.Analyzing the Structure of Argumentative Discourse.Computational Linguistics, 13(1-2): 11-24, 1987.Ducrot, O.Les mots du discours.Les editions de Minuit, Paris, 1980.Flowers, M., McGuire, R. and Birnbaum, L.Adversary Arguments arid the Logic of PersonalAttacks.In Lehnert & Ringle, editors, Strategies for NaturalLangugage Processing, LEA, 1982.Grosz, B. and Sidner, C.Attentions, Intentions, and the StructureDiscourse.Computational Linguistics 12(3):175-204, 1986.ofRaccah, P.-Y.Modelling Argumentation andArgumentation.Argurnentation, Bruxelles, 1987.Modelling with1376
