Towards Personal MT:general design, dialogue structure, potential role of speechClwistian BOITETGETA, IMAG InstituteCIdJF & CNRS)BP 53X, 38041 Grenoble Cedex, FranceAbstractPersonal MT (PMT) is a new concept in dialogue-based MT (DBMT) , which we are currently studyingand prototyping in the LIDIA project Ideally, a PMTsystem should run on PCs and be usable by everybody.To get his/her text translated into one or severallanguages, the writer would accept o cooperate with thesystem in order to standardize and clarify his/herdocument.
There are many interesting aspects in thedesign of such a system.
The paper briefly presentssome of them (HyperText, distributed architecture,guided language, hybrid transfer/interlingua, the goes onto study in more detail the structure of the dialogue withthe writer and the place of speech synthesis \[1\].KeywordsPersonal Machine Translation, dialogue-basedMachine Translation, Man-Machine Dialogue,Ambiguity Resolution, Speech Synthesis.IntroductionA first classification of MAT (Machine AidedTranslation) systems is by user.
"Classical" MATsystems are for the watcher, for the revisor (post-editor),or for the translator.
A new concept is that of "personalMT", or MAT for the writer.MT for the watcher appeared in the sixties.
Itspurpose is to provide informative rough translations oflarge amounts of unrestricted texts for the end user.MT for the revisor appeared in the seventies.
It aimsat producing raw translations good enough to be revisedby professionals in a cost-effective way.
This impliesthat the system needs to be specialized tor a certainsublanguage.
For a system to be cost-effective, it isgenerally agreed that at least 20000 pages must behandled (e.g.
10000 pages/year for at least 2 years).Leaving "heavy MT", not adapted to small volumesof heterogeneous texts, several firms have developedMAT systems for translators, in the form of tools (e.g.Mercury-Termex~), or of integrated environments (e.g.Alps TSSrU).The concept of MT for the author (writer/speaker)has recently crystallized, building on previous tudies oninteractive MT, text critiquing and dialog structures \[5,6, 7, 9, 12\].
Its aim is to provide high qualitytranslation/interpretation services to end users with noknowledge of the target languages or linguistics.A sccond classification of MAT systems is by thetypes of knowledge felt to be central to theirflmctioning.
Linguistic Based MT uses :core knowledge about he language ;specific knowledge about he corpus (domain,typology) ;intrinsic semantics (a term coined by J.P. Descldsto cover all information formally marked in anatural language, but which refers to itsinterpretation, such as semantic features orrelations : concreteness, location, cause,instrument... ) ;but not :extrinsic semantics ( tatic knowledge de~ribingthe domain(s) of the text, e.g.
in terms of factsand rules) ;situational semantics (describing the dynmnicsituations and their actors) ;pragmatics (overt or covert intentions in thecommunicative context).Knowledge-Based MT uses extralinguistic knowledgeon top of linguistic knowledge.
Finally, Dialogue-BasedMT insists on extracting knowledge from a human (tileauthor or a specialist).
These options are not exclusive,however.
In KBMT~89 \[7\], for example, ambiguitiespersisting after using linguistic and extralinguisticknowledge are solved through adialogue with the writerinitiated by the "augmentor".
In ATR's MachineInterpretation project, the dialogues center around a well-defined task (organization of international conferences),but may also concern extraneous matters (culturalevents, health problems...).
This feature, added to theenormous ambiguity inherent in speech input, willlikely force such systems to be dialogue-baseA aswell asknowledge-based \[5\].
Ii1 Personal MT, we may rely onsome core extralinguistic knowledge base, but not onany detailed expertise, because the domains and types oftext should be unrestricted.
Hence, Personal MT must beprimarily dialogue-based.A third classification of MAT systems is by theirinternal organization (direct/transfer/interlingua, use ofclassical or specialized languages, procedurality/ declarativeness...) through which so-called"generations" have been distinguished.
This level ofdetail will not be too relevant in this paper.30 1\]\[, A pro jec t  in Persona l  MTILo G(~alsMDIA (Large Internationalization of the Documentsby Interacting with their Authors) aims at studying thetheoretical and methodological issues of the PMTapproach, to be experimented on by first building asmall prototype, and more generally at promoting thisconcept within the MT community.We are trying to develop an architecture which wouldbe suitable for very large applications, to be upscaledlater with industrial partners if results are promisingenough.
For example, we don't intend to incorporatemore than a few hundred or flmusand words in theprototype's (LIDIAol) dictionaries, although we try todevelop robust indexing schemes and to imt)lcment thelexical data base in a way which would allow supporlingon the order of 1 to lOMwords in 10 languages.
Thesame goes for the grammars.Even in a prototype, however, ttle sh'ucture of thedialogue with the author must be studied with care, andoffers interesting possibilities.
Clearly, the writer shouldbe allowed to write freely, and to decide for himselfwhen and on which part of his document to start anyldnd of interaction.
But changes in the text should becontrolled so that not all changes would torce the systemto start he interaction anew.From a linguistic point of view, it is extremelyexciting to see, at last, a possibility to experiment withZemb's theme/rheme/pheme "statutory" ,articulation ofpropositions \[13\], and/or Prague's topic/focusopposition, which are claimed to be of utmostimportance for translation : both are almost impossibleto compute automatically, because the tests are veryoften expressed in terms of possible transformations i  agiven discourse context.
But, in PMT, we may ask theauthor.2.
Out l ineThe prototype system for LIDIA-1 is constrained asfollows.Translation from French into Russian, Germanand English (inversing previous ystems), withother target languages being studied incooperative frameworks ;Small corpus from the Ariane-G5 user interface(containing some on-line documentation), inHyperCard form ;Distributed computer architecture : writerworkstation on a Macintosh (Plus or SE), MTserver on a mini (IBM-4361) ;- Guided Language approach, as opposed to FreeText or Controlled Language ;Linguistic architecture : hybridTrans fer/lnterlingua.11yperTextThe choice of HyperCard reflects the fact thatHypertexts are becoming the favorite supports fortechnical documentation.
It also relics on tileassumption that writers will more readily agree toparticipating in a dialogue if the tool they are using isvery interactive than if they use a more classical textprocessor, t:inally, there are some linguistic advantages.First, the textual parts are clearly isolated in fields,and not cluttered with images, formulas, tabs, markups,etc.
Scripts should not be.
translated - -  if they generatemessages, these must be taken from normal fields, andnot directly generated (linguistic requirements may leadto better programming practices!
).Second, the textual parts may be typed, thus greatlyfacilitating analysis.
For example, a given field maycontain only titles, another only menu items, anotheronly sentences without the initial subject (which isoften contained in another field), etc.
A distinctpossibility is to define microlanguages a  types of veryshort textual fragments (less than 2 or 3 lines, to beconcrete), and to define sublanguages as structuredcollections of microlanguages for longer textualfragments.Distributed architectureThe idea to use a distributed architecture has both apractical and theoretical basis.
First, we want to use theAriane-G5 system, a comprehensive g nerator of MTsystems developed over many years \[11\].
Althoughsome micros can support this system (PC~AT/370,PS2/7437), their user-friendliness and availability are nomatch to those of the Mac.Second, looking at some other experiences (Alps,Weidner), we have concluded that some parts ofsophisticated natural anguage processing can not beperformed in real time on small and cheap machineswithout oversimplifying the linguistic parts anddegrading quality down to near uselessness.
Rather, itshould be possible to perform the "heavy" parts in anasynchronous but still user-friendly way, as IBMresearchers have done for the Critique system \[9\].Of course, this idea could be implemented on asingle machine running under a multitasking operatingsystem, if such a system were available on the mostpopular micros, and provided tile heavy linguisticcomputations don't take hours.Guided LanguageThe "guided language approach" is a middle roadbetween free and controlled text.
The key to quality inMT, as in other areas of AI, is to restrict he domain inan acceptable way.231By "controlled language", we understand a subset ofnatural language restricted in such a way thatambiguities disappear.
That is the approach of theTITUS system : no text is accepted unless it completelyconforms to one predefined sublanguage.
While thistechnique works very well in a very restricted omain,with professionals producing the texts (technicalabstracts in textile, in this case), it seems impossible togeneralize it to open-ended uses involving the generalpublic.What seems possible is to define a collection ofmicrolanguages or sublanguages, toassociate one witheach unit of translation, and to induce the writer/speakerto conform to it, or else to choose another one.Hybrid Transfer/lnterlinguaBy "hybrid Transfer/Interlingua", we mean that theinterface structures produced by analysis are multilevelstructures of the source language, in the sense ofVauquois \[4, 11, see also 2, 3\], where some parts areuniversal (logico-semantic relations, semantic features,abstract time, discourse type...), while others arelanguage-specific (morphosyntactic class, gender,number, lexical elements, syntactic functions...).
InPMT, because of the necessity of lexical clarification,we should go one step further toward interlingua byrelating the "word senses" of the vocabularies of all thelanguages considered in the system and making themindependent objects in the lexical data base.I I .
Structure of the dia logue with  thewriter.
Interactions concerning typology,terminology and styleHence, the first interaction planned in LIDIAconcerns typology : given a stack, the system will firstconstn~ct a "shadow" file.
For each textual field, it willask its typology (microlanguage for very small texts,sublanguages for others), and attach it to thecorresponding shadow record.
In the case of "incomplete"texts, where for example the subject of the first sentenceis to be taken from another field (as in tables containingcommand names and their explanations), it will ask howto construct a complete text for translation, and attachthe corresponding rule to the shadow record.The second level of interaction concerns pelling.Any spellchecker will do.
However, it would be best touse a lemmatizer relying on the lexical database of thesystem, as the user must be allowed to enter new wordsand will expect a coherent behavior of the entire system.Level three concerns terminology.
The lexicaldatabase should contain thesaurus relations, indicatingamong other things the preferred term among a cluster of(quasi-)synonyms (e.g.
plane/aircraft/ship/plane).
Whichterm is preferred often depends on local decisions : itshould be easy to change it for a particular stack,without of course duplicating the thesaurus.
Note thatthe lexical database should contain a great variety ofterms, even incorrect or dubious, whereas terminologicaldatabases are usually restricted to normalized orrecommended terms.
In PMT, we only want to guide theauthor : if s/he prefers to use a non standard term, thatshould be allowed.Level four concerns tyle, understood in a simplyquantitative way (average l ngth of sentences, fi:equencyof complex conjuncts/disjuncts, rare verbal forms,specific words like dont in French, relative frequency ofnouns/articles, etc.).
From the experience of CRITIQUE\[9\], it seems that such methods, which work in realtime, may be very useful as a first step to guide towardsthe predetermined text types (micro- or sub-languages).2.
Interactions concerning syntax,semantics and pragmaticsUntil now, the system has worked directly with thetext as written by the author.
For the remaining types ofinteraction, it will work on a transcription contained inthe shadow record, as well as with some intermediateforms of processing stored in associated records of theshadow file.
This forces to lock the original textual field(unless the author decides to change it and accepts tostart again from level two).Level five concerns the fixed forms.
It is quite usual,especially in technical documentation, that some groupsof words take a fixed meaning in certain contexts, withspecific, non-compositional translations.
For example,"Save as" as a menu item Saue as  ... is translated inFrench as ?nreg is l re r  sous .
.
,  and not ~ts "Sauvercomme", which would be correct for other uses.
As amenu item, this group functions as a proper noun, notas a verbal phrase.
The writer should be asked whether agiven occurrence of each such group is to be treated asfixed or not.
In the first case, an adequate transcriptionshould be generated in the shadow recordC&FXD_Save as", for example).
Certain elements(such as menu items) should be automatically proposedfor insertion in the list.Level six concerns lexical clarification.
First,polysemies are to be solved by asking the writer.
Forexample, the word "dipl6me" is not ambiguous inFrench.
However, if translating from French intoEnglish, 2 possibilities hould be given : "diplfme nonterminal" ("diploma") or "dipltme terminal" ("degree").Some polysemies are source language specific, somedepend on the target languages.
We want to treat hem ina uniform way, by maintaining in the lexical databasethe collection of all "word senses" Cacceptions", notreally concepts of an ontology as in KBMT-89), linkedby disambiguating questions/definitions to thewords/terms of the languages supported by the system.Lexical ellipses can also be treated at that level.
Thisproblem is particularly annoying in MT.
Suppose a textis about a space ship containing a "centrale 61ectrique"("electric plant") and a "centrale inertielle" ("illcrtialguidance system").
The complete form is often replacedby the elided one : "centrale".
Although it is vital to32 3disambiguate for translating correctly (by thecorresponding elided forms: "plant"/"system"), noautomatic solution is known.
A given occurrence maybe an elision or not.
If yes, it is even more difficult tolook for a candidate to the complete form in a hypertextthan in a usual text.At level seven, the unit of translation (the content ofthe shadow field) has been submitted to a first step ofautomatic analysis, which returns a surface structureshowing ambiguities of bracketing (PP attachment,scope of coordiuation...).
The questions to tim writershould not be asked in linguistic terms.
The idea is torephrase the input text itself, that is, to present healternatives in suggestive ways (on screen, or usingspeech synthesis- see below).Some other ambiguities, for instance on reference(unresolved anaphora) or syntactic functions ("Whichfirm manages this office ?"
- -where is the subject ?
)might be detected at this stage.
They may be left for thenext step to solve (actually, this is a general strategy),or solved interactively at that point.
In our view, thatwould best be done by producing paraphrases \[Zajac1988\], or by "template r solution" \[6\].At level eight, the disambiguated surface structurehas been .
;ubnfitted to the deep analysis phase, whichreturns a multilevel structure (decorated lree encodingseveral evels of linguistic interpretation, universal aswell as language specific).
Some ambiguities mayappear during this phase, and be coded in the structure,such as ambiguities on semantic relations (deep cases),deep acmalisation (time, aspect...), discourse type (aFrench infinitive sentence may be an order or not, ik~rexample), or theme/theme distinction.
Template orparaphrase r solution will be used to disambignate, asno rephrasing of the text can often suffice (e.g.
: "theconquest of the Barbarians").A suggestion of \[6\] was to delay all interactionsuntil transfer.
The view taken here is rather to solve assoon as possible all the ambiguities which can not besolved automatically later, or only with much difficulty.For example, word sense disambiguation takes placequite early in the above scheme, and that may give classdisambiguation for free.A more flexible scheme would be to ask about wordsenses eariy only if each lemma of the consideredwordlkm~ has more t|:an one acceptkm, if ~mt, thesystem could wait until after surface a,m.lysis, whichreduce~ almost all morphosyntactic ambi;!,t.'.ities.
Avariation wonkl be to disambigtmte word senses onlyafter sur/ime analysis has been don(;.
A prototype shouldallow ext~e~irnenth~g wilh vaious strategies.~i\[o ~?~ace and  q~.~a~.~y of speeck~Speect~ synthesis has a pJacc no~ only h~ thetranslation oJ gpoker~ dialogue';, bni aiso i:i~ iiietranstati(m of written texts.
We acma!\[y ~hink iraintrodtlcti(m iii Personal MT col~ld bc very holpfill i~enhancing ergonomy and allowing for more naturaldisambiguation strategies.1.
Speech synthesis and Personal MTSpeech synthesis and MT in generalSpeech synthesis of translations may be useful forall kinds of MAT.
In MT for the watcher, people couldaccess Japanese technical and scientific textual databases,for example, through rough English MT not only overcomputer networks, as is cm'rently done in Sweden \[10\],but also via the telephone.
To produce spokentranslations could be even more useful in the case ofrapidly changing information (political events, weatherbulletins, etc.
disseminated to a large public throughcomputer or telephone networks).In the case of professional translation (MAT for therevisor or for the translator), the main area today is thetranslation of large technical documents.
With the adventof wide!y available hypermedia techniques, thesedocuments are starting to contain not only text andimages, but also sound, used for instmme to stress omeimportant warning messages.Personal MT could be used for translating technicaldocuments as well as all kinds of written material notrelying on creative use of language (ioe.
poetry).
It couldalso be used for communication within multilingualteams working together and linked by a network, or byphone.
Finally, it could be used for the multilingualdissemination of information created onoline by amonolingual operator (sports events, fairs...) and madeaccessible in written form (electronic boards, minitel) aswell as in spoken form (loudspeakers, adio, telephone),whence the need for speech synthesis.Hence, spoken output does not imply spoken input,and should be considered for all kinds of machine aidedtranslation.
As complete linguistic structures of thetranslations are created uring the MT process, speechsynthesis should be of better quality than current ext-to-speech techniqocs can provide.
This does not apply toMAT for the translator, however (although thetranslator, being a specialist, could perhaps be asked toinsert marks concerning prosody, rhythm and pauses,analogous with formatting ma'kups).Speech synthesis of dialogue utterances.l)ia\]ogue tltterancos COflCertt the3 (;ol~lnunicatiol~between the system and the user, the transtati(m process(reformulatior~, clarification), and the translati(m system((',g.
interrogation or modificatiou of iis lexicaldatabase).i~ Telephone lnterpretatio~~ of dialogues, all dialogueutterai~ces ,m.~st obviously be in spoke~ form, ikewritmn R~rm being made available only if the pho~c iscoupled to a scrce~.
I~ translatkm of writtm~ materiai, ~could be attractive to i:~co~porate speech synthesis i~?
thedialogue itself, as an e.nhancemc~t to its visual form, tb..,tilt'; ?allle oQ~;oitolnic loasolL'~ as ahoy(;, anti t)(,X;~lngcspoken alternatives might be intrinsically moresuggestive than written ones in order to resolveambiguities ~ pauses and melody may help to delimitgroups and pinpoint heir dependencies, while phrasalstress may give useful indications on the theme/rhemedivision.In the case of non-dialogue-based ystems, there areonly fixed messages, and on-line speech synthesis notreally necessary, because the acoustic odings can beprecomputed.
In the case of dialogue-based MachineTranslation, however, an important part of the dialogueconcerns variable lements, uch as the translated textsor the dictionaries, where definitions or disambiguatingquestions could be inserted.Speech in PMT :synthesis of  input, texts or reverse translationsSpeech synthesis of input seems to be required whenproducing a document in several languages, with somespoken parts.
It would be strange that the sourcelanguage documentation not have the spoken parts, orthat the author be forced to read them aloud.
In the lattercase, a space problem would also arise, because speechsynthesis can produce an acoustic oding (later fed to avoice synthesis chip) much more compact han anyrepresentation f the acoustic signal itself.The concept of reverse translation could be veryuseful in PMT.
The idea is to give to the author, who ispresumed not to know the target language(s), somecontrol over the translations.
In human translation orinterpretation, it often happens that the writer or speakerasks "what has been translated".
By analogy, a PMTsystem should be able to translate in reverse.Technically, it would do so by starting from the deepstructure of the target ext, and not from the target extitself, in order not to introduce spurious ambiguities(although aving both possibilities could possibly helpin detecting accidental mbiguities created in the targetlanguage).Note that speech synthesis of reverse translationsmight be ergonomically attractive, even if no spokenform is required for the final results (translations orinput texts), because screens tend to become clutteredwith too much information, and because reading thescreen in detail quickly becomes tiring.2.
The need for very high qualityspeech synthesis in DBMTIt has been surprisingly difficult for researchers inspeech synthesis to argue convincingly about the needfor very high quality.
Current ext to speech systems arequite cheap and seem acceptable tolaymen.
Of course, itis tiring to listen to them for long periods, but incommon applications, such as telephone nquiry,interactions are short, or of fixed nature (time-of-dayservice), in which case synthesis can proceed fromprerecorded fragments.DBMT, as envisaged above, seems to offer a contextin which very high quality could and should be demandedof speech synthesis.ErgonomyFirst, the writer/speaker would be in frequentinteraction with the system, even if each interaction isshort.
The overall quality of speech synthesisdepends onthree factors :voice synthesis (production of the signal from theacoustic oding) ;linguistic analysis (word class recognition,decomposition into groups), for correctpronunciation f individual words, or contextualtreatment (liaisons in French) ;pragmatic analysis (communicative intent :speech act, theme/rheme division...), for pauses,rhythm and prosody.We will consider the first factor to be fixed, and workon the linguistic and pragmatic aspects.Of course, certain parts of the dialogue could beprerecorded, namely the messages concerning theinteraction with the system itself.
However, users mightrather prefer a uniform quality of speech synthesis.
Inthat case, these messages might be stored in the sameacoustic coding format as the texts produced underlinguistic ontrol.Ambiguity resolution by rephrasingWe have seen two main ways of disambiguatingstructural mbig~tities ha DBMT, namely rephrasing andparaphrasing.
Rephrasing means to present the originaltext in different ways.
Suppose we want to disambiguatethe famous sentence "tie saw a girl in the park with atelescope" by presenting the alternatives on a screen.
Wemight get something like :1- Hesaw2- Hesaw3- Hes~v4- He saw5- He sawthe girlin the parkwith a telescopethe girlin the parkwith a telescopethe girlin the parkwith a telescopethe girlin the parkwith a telescopethe girlin the parkwith a lelescope ~534If the disambiguation happens orally, the spokenforms should be presented in the same register as in theoriginal (here, aff irmative),  but very clearlydistinguished, so that a human could reconstruct theforms above.
The availability of complete linguisticstructures is necessary, but not sufficient, becauseunderstandability is not enough : distinguishability is anew ~Zxluirement for speech synthesis.Other types of  linguistic interactionsIn disambiguation by paraphrasing or templategeneration (generation of abbreviated paraphrases, as itwere), questions hould be generated, with their locusclearly indicated by stress and prosody.
For instance :Ls" t~e girl or the parIc with a telescope ?In the same manner, speech quality is very importantif word sense dismnbiguation is done orally.
Since somenew words or new senses of existing words may be addedby the user, the disambiguation processes should applyto their definitions in the same way as they do to thetexts/ulterances to be translated.All pr~eding remarks are of course even more validin the case of oral input, where speech is the primarymeans of interaction, and the quality of the signal ismducect by the mmsmission channel.Co~ch~sionThe concept of Personal MT crysrtfllizes many kteasfrom previous systems and research (text--critiquing,interactive MT, dialogue-based MT, MachineInterpretation of  spoken dialogues, controlledlanguages...).
However, the perspective of interactingwith the author, not requirexl to have any knowledge ofthe target language(s), linguistics, or translation, putsthings in an original framework.While the development of systems of this natureposes old problems in a new way, and offers interestingnew possibilities to the developers, their acceptabilityand usefulness will perhaps result more from theirergonomy than from their intrinsic linguistic quality,how necessary it may be.Promotion of the National Languages is becomi~gq~fite important nowadays, but, apmt of efforts to teach afew for~zigl~ langt~ages, no technical .~;olul:io~~ ires y(:tbeen proposed to help people write i~a mei~ ow~lauguage and communicate with oilier people in ihcirown lang~ages.
Personal MT could bc such a solution.Wc strongly hope that many researcher'; wilt ~.~.acinterest i~ this new field el MT.Although speech s'ynthcsi,a of the ii~pui or outpt~ttexts had been considereci f n ihc mili~i dcsigr~ o_~ theproject, and thought o be ~tsefu~ i i ,~)li~oc paris, i~ wasJ.I.
Tsujii who pointed to me how interesting it wouldbe to use it in ambiguity resolution, provided we canreach the necessary quality.
I am also grateful toJ.Ph.
Guilbaud, E. Blanc, and M. Embar for reviewingearlier drafts of this paper.
While their help was veryvaluable for improving both content and form, theremaining deficiencies am of course mine.References\[1\] BOITffF Ch.
(1989) Motivations and architecture ofthe LIDIA project.Prec.
MTS--89, Munich, 16--18 Aug. 1989, 5p.\[2\] BOITET Ch.
(1988d) PROS and CONS of the pivot andtransfer approaches in multiIingual Machine Translation.New Directions in MT.
BSO cent, Budapest, 13 p.1311 BOITET Ch.
(1988c) ltybrid Pivots using re-.structuresfor multilinguaI 7'ran.sfer-Based MT Systems.
Jail.
lr~st, ofElectr., Inf.
& Comm.
Eng., Jtrae 1988, NI~C88-3, 1"7 ~ .22.\[4\] BOITET Ch.
(1988b) Bernard VAUQUOIS'Contribution to the Theory and Practice of building MTSystems : a historical persTJective.2nd Int.
Conf.
on Theor.
& Meth.
Issues ha MT.
CMT,CMU, Pittsburgli, June 1988, 18 p.\[5\] BOITET Ch.
(1988a) Representation a dComputation of Units of Translation for Machinetn~erpretation f Spoken Texts.TR-I--0035, ATR, Osaka, 41 p. Also Computers & ArtificialIntelligence 8/6, 505.--546, 1989.\[611 CHANDLER B., ItOLDEN N., HORSFALL tl.,POLLARD E., McGEE WOOD M. (1987) N-Tran FinalReport.
Atvey Project CCIdUMIST Report 87/9,Manchester, 30 p,17\] NIRENBURG & aL (1989) KBMT..89 Pr4ect Report.CMT, CMI_J~ Pittsburgh, 286 p.\[8\] PECCOUD 1::.
(1988) The Aims of fl~e French NationatProject of Computer-Aided Translation.
In : InternationalFo~um on Information and Documentation.
113/1, 1 I - - i  3.\[9\] RICHARDSON S. D. (1985) Enharmed Text Critiquingusing a Natural Language Parser : the CRITIQUE system.1BM Research Report RC 11332, Yorktown Heights.\[10\] SIGI)RDSON J.
& GRENI'EX R. (19871)MT ofon..linesearches in Japanese Data Bases.
RPI, Lund Univ., 124 p.\[ 11\] VAUQUOIS B.
(1988) BERNARI) VAUQUOIS et laTAO, vhagt-cillq ans de Traduction Automatique,A NA\[,ECFES.
BERNARD VAUQUOIS and MT, lwcmy, liveye~rs of M'F.
Ass.
Champollion & GETA, Grenoble, 700 p.I J 2\] ZAJAC R. (1988) imeractive ?
)'anslatiot:~ : o ~e;.va!~pro~ch.
Prec.
COLIN(;-88, Budapest, At~g.
!%tLI ~!.1\] ZEMB .L M. (1982) l,,~; occurre~ces i~hdmatiqz~es,rh/.ma~iques ~ thdmatiques des archilexO.mes modau~.
!~ 'q_,~notkm sdmaa!.ico.logiqne d  modalit6", (/niv.
de Metz &Klincksieck, l~echc.rchc's linguistiques V!It, 75~.t 16.-O-O-O-O,.O-O--O -O O-().-35
