Advice-Giving Dialogue" An Integrated SystemDid ier  Bron isz ,  Thomas  Gross i ,  F rango is  Jean-Mar ieCap Gemini InnovationChemin du Vieux Chine38240 Meylan, Franceemai l :  {bron isz ,  g ross i ,  f ranco is}?capsoget i ,  f rAbst ractIn this paper we present he implementation of anadvice-giving system for financial investment for thefinal phase of the project ESTEAM-3 161.
This sys-tem integrates multiple agents in a single architec-ture allowing cooperation between a natural lan-guage dialoguer, "~ltelligent" data base access mod-ules, and a problem solver in the financial domain.Using a user model, this system adapts the mixed ini-tiative dialogue during both the formulation of theproblem and its resolution by the expert.
A noviceuser thus has access to expert knowledge despite theweakness of his own knowledge.1 The  Demonst ra torIn its final phase, the project was oriented towardsthe development of a demonstration prototype, in-corporating various ESTEAM-3 16 research resultsand showing the feasibility of an AGES.
The Coop-eration Architecture is a conceptual framework forAGES design and a set of mechanisms to supportimplementation of that design.
It is a cooperationarchitecture because it supports the active cooper-ation of independent components or modules of theAGES; it is thus the means for integration.
Further-more, it supports the integration of heterogeneousmodules through encapsulation ofmodules as agents,and by providing module-module cooperation usingany of three standard interaction models.Our dialogue module integrates various sub-systems, for example, a natural-language and in-tention recognition module, an expression genera-tion module and a dialogue planning and manage-ment module.
Great advances have been made ineach of these domains but at present we are deal-ing only with the tip of the iceberg.
In the projectESTEAM- 3 1 6 we chose not to address pecific issuessuch as explanation in great detail (there are manyresearchers already addressing these problems), butto build a general integrated system aimed at recog-nizing the user's intentions and answering hhn in an1This work was supported in part by the Commission ofthe European Communities a  ESPRIT project 316 (ESTEAM- 3,~)understandable way with expert knowledge.
We willshow how this system is able to incorporate mod-ules which are more specialized in certain domains(problem solver or cooperative data base access).2 The  AgentsThe cooperation architectureTo provide a design method and to support the effi-cient implementation f AGES, we have built a spe-cial architecture.
The architecture aims to keep sepa-rate the design and implementation f internal Agentfeatures from external features handling cooperativeinteraction.
The architectural pproach to commu-nication allows Agents to share tasks by problem de-composition and to share knowledge by using specialAgents for Data and Knowledge Base Management.The main problems tackled in defining the archi-tecture concern:?
support for the integration of heterogeneousAgents;?
control mechanisms for managing the interac-tions between Agents solving subproblems;?
efficient communication between Agents whichshare or exchange information.The Problem SolverThe Problem Solver citehanet incorporates the re-sults of two major research efforts: logic-basedmodeling and encoding, and explanation generationbased on proof trees.
The Problem Solver is themodule which solves the user's problem{s) in a fi-nancial domain and provides proof trees that the Di-alogue Manager can use to generate xplanations.This Problem Solver module is based upon a knowl-edge representation formalism which integrates andobject-oriented approach and logic, and is imple-mented in Prolog \[1,2\].The Cooperative Answering ModuleIn the context of traditional applications devotedto company management, like payroll computation,people or programs who have to access data in a141Database have a very precise definition of the datathey want to access.
There are many other applica-tion.
'~ where people want to access data  in order tomake a decision, or to solve a problem whose solutioncannot be found applying a simple algorithm.
Animportant  feature of this context, from the point ofview of data  retrieval, is that  users don' t  have a pre-cise idea of the data  which can help them to solve aproblem, or to make a decision.
The objective of theCooperat ive Answering module is to simulate the be-havior of a person who wants to help as much as pos-sible an inter locutor who asks them a question.
Thatis, to try to understand why this inter locutor asksthis question, and to determine what addit ional  in-teresting information, not explicit ly requested, couldbe provided in addit ion to the answer\[3\].the  D ia logue  ManagerIn the final integrated AGES demonstrator ,  the mainproblems are control l ing the cooperative functioningof several dist inct sources of knowledge, finding waysof representing and reasoning about diverse matters,and integrat ing the different contr ibut ions to per-form intel l igently a single task, namely advice-giving.The role of the Dialogue Manager is to provide a"friendly", comprehensible user interface that makesavailable to the user all the expertise of the variousmodules of the system in a flexible, uniform fash-ion \[4,6,7\].
We present in the next section a simplescenario in order to provide its functionahties.3 A sample dialogueLet us consider the following session.1 System : Hello, tel lme about your investment plan.2 User3 System :4 Vs,~r5 Syatem :6 Yse, r7 Sys tem :8 User9 System :10 User :11 System :12 User :I 'd like to buy a car in two years.Ok.
An investment plan comprises threesubparts: an emergency fund, a f ixed-terminvestment and a long-term investment.How much do you want to invest?$20,000.Let's begin with the emergency fund.How much do you want to put into anemergency fund?Let's talk about my car first.Ok.
How much money do you want to putinto the fixed-term investment?Oh, let's say $7,500.I recommend that you put the money intoa liquid security.
Would you like me topropose one?Yes.Put your money into a 4.5 % savings ac-count at Sofibanque.
Let's return to theemergency fund, now.
How much do youwant to put in it?$5,000.13 System :14 User :15 System :16 User :17 System :18 User :19 System :20 User :21 System :22 User :23 System :24 User :25 System :26 User :27 System :28 User :29 System :30 User :31 System :32 User :33 System :Tell me also the delay.2 days.Ok.
I recommend that you put the moneyinto a liquid security.
Would you like meto propose one?Are there any savings accounts with morethan 4.5 % interest?B~rclay's has a savings account at 5 %interest, but it is in EnglandOk, I'll take Barclay's.So, that leaves you with $7,500 for yourlong-term investment, is this ok?I wanted $10,000.If you want an investment plan for $20,000with an emergency fund of $5,000 and afixed-term investment of $7,500, it onlyleaves $7,500 for a long term investment.If you want to put $10,000, then youshould modify something else in yourplan.Could I put $2,500 into the emergencyfund?Ok.
I recommend for the emergency funda bank account at Sofibanque earning4.5%, you can put $10,000 into the long-term investment.
What risk-level wouldyou like?What is the risk-level of a long-term in-vestment?The risk-level is represented by an integerbetween 1 to 10.
It shows the risk youwant to have for your portfolio.
So, whatrisk do you choose?What if I put a risk-level of 5?In this case, I recommend .
.
.Do you accept?And if the risk-level is 2?In this case, I recommend .
.
.Which one do you prefer?The first oneOk.
So, to sum up, you want to invest$20,000, with $2,500 in an emergency fundwith a delay of 2 days, $7,500 in a fixed-term investment to buy a car in two years,and $10,000 in an long-term investment.Is that right?That's fineOk.
Goodbye!
!AnalysisFrom this dialogue, we can easily demonstrate  thedifferent points we mentioned above.?
In sentence 6 the user prefers to begin the dis-cussion with the f ixed-term investment, whilethe system began the discussion with the emer-gency fund.
The system changes ti le order ofthe different topics according to the will of theuser and the feasibi l ity of such an exchange.422?
In sentence 12, the user does not say "Theamount of the emergency fund is $5000" butonly "$5000".
The system must understandsuch an elliptical response.
In the same way,the system does not ask "Tell me tile delay ofthe emergency fund of your Investment plan?
"but only "Tell me the delay?".
Normally, thetwo pa~'ticipants hide a lot of information.
Theyjust give sufficient information to have an unam-biiguous dialogue.
But having a partial knowl-edge necessitates being able to confirm some-times what has been understood.
In sentence 7,the system asks the user for a confirmation ofthe value of the fixed-term investment (2 years)which was previously given by him in the sen-tence 2.
The ~ystem has understood that buyinga car is equivalent to having a fixed-term invest-ment, but it asks him to verify this supposition.
* In sentence 24 the user begins a digression inorder to have an explanation about a new termintroduced by the system in asking for a value.The system has to recognize this new user's in-tention, cope with (it may be longer than a two-turn dialogue (User, system) as ha the discussionof a given solution) and come back to the previ-ous dialogue.
* ht sentence 10 the user accepts the system's of-fer to come up with a detailed investment plan,while in sentence 16 he decides to find out aboutother possibilities.
* In sentences 26 - 30 the system and the userexplore the implications of a modification of oneof the parameters.All these considerations appear in any discussions,independently of the topics.
There is implicit infor-mation (abbreviations, peaking manner) used in adiscussion in a given domain.
The dialoguer we arebuilding does not handle such implicit information.We focus our attention on the domain-independentaspect of the dialogue organization.
However, theadvice-giving system must be able to explain what itdoes and how it does it, and also what the other com-ponents it is interfaced with do.
We added, therefore,these domain-functionalities n order to implement asystem able to help a novice user as well as an expe-rienced one.The system has to adapt its utterances and its ex-planations according to its perception of tile user'sknowledge.
For instance, when tile system presents aportfolio, it hides irrelevant information for a noviceuser while it shows it for the experienced one.
In thesame way, the system tries to use the user's vocabu-lary.
In the example given above, the system uses theword car rather than fixed-term investment in orderto hell) the user's understanding.4 Conc lus ionThe integrated system elaborated in the projectESTEAM-316 is a demonstrator incorporating asmuch of the technology developed within Esteamas possible.
This experience comes from researchin the areas of Knowledge Representation, Cooper-ative Answering, Intentional Answering, DeductiveDatabases and Mixed-Initiative interfaces (also seethe deliverables and the prototypes issuing from theproject).
The imitation of human behavior in the do-main of the advice-giving remains very delicate andelaborate but we believe we have made a significantcontribution.AcknowledgementsWe want to thank our partners within Esteam-316:CSELT in Torino, CERT in Toulouse and Phflips inBrussels.References\[1\] A. Bruffaerts and E. Henin, Proof 2?ees forNegation as Failure: Yet Another Prolog Meta-Interpreter, in: Logic Programming, Proe.
of theFifth International Conference and Symposium,Seattle, August 15-19, 1988.\[2\] A. Bruffaerts and E. Henin, Some Claims aboutEffective Explanation Generation in Expert Sys-tems, in: Proc.
of the AAAI'88 Workshop onExplanation, Saint Paul, August 22, 1988, 83-86.\[3\]\[4\]\[51\[6\]\[7\]F.Cuppens, R.Demolombe.
Cooperative An-swering : a methodology to to provide in-telligent access to a Database.
Proceedingsof 2d Int.Conf.
on Expert Database Systems.The Benjamin/Cummings Publishing Com-pany.
1988.P.
Decitre, T. Grossi, C. Jullien, J.-P. Solvay,"Planning for Problem Formulation in Advice-Giving Dialogue."
Proceedings of the Associa-tion of Computational Linguistics, 1987.M.
Hanet, The Problem Solver, in: Deliverableno.
16, ESTEAM-316 Esprit Project, July 1989.C.
3ullien, 3.P.
Solvay, "Person-Machine Dia-logue for Expert Systems : The Advice-GivingCase."
Proc.
7th Int.
Workshop Expert Systems~?
their applications, Avignon, 1987.C.
Jullien, J.C. Marty, "Plan Revision illPerson-Machine Dialogue."
4th conf.
of the Eu-ropean Chapter of the Association of Computa-tional Linguistics, Manchester, April 1989.3 43
