Reading Distinction in MT*Plus ten HackenEurot raOnderzoeksinst i tuut  voor TaM en SpraakUniversity of UtrechtTrans 10, 3512 JK Utrechtemail: tenhackenC~hutruu59.bitnetAbst rac tIn any system for Natural Language Process-ing having a dictionary, the question arises asto whiclh entries are included in it.
In this pa-per, I address the subquestion as to whether alexical unit having two senses should be con-sidered ambiguous or vague with respect tothem.
The inadequacy of some common strate-gies to answer this question in Machine Trans-lation (MT) systems is shown.
From a seman-tic conjecture, tests are developed that are ar-gued to give more consistent and theoreticallywell-founded results.1 In t roduct ionIn any system for Natural Language Processinghaving a dictionary, the question arises whichentries are included in it.
In this paper, I willassume the environment of a mnltilingual MTsystem based on a linguistic analysis and trans-fer architecture, from which I will derive someargumentation.The question which entries are included inthe dictionary should be answered in two parts.First there is a mapping from graphic words tolexical units (lu's), then a mapping from lu's toreadings, each of which is represented in an en-try.
The former mapping represents a certainlevel of analysis of the graphic word.
It ab-stracts away from inflection and spelling vari-ation, and, depending on the system's analysiscomponent, may do so as well for productive*I would like to thank my colleagues atthe universityand in Eurotra, especially Louis des Tombe and HenkVerkuyl, for their helpful comments.derivation and compounding, and multi-wordunits.
In this paper I will concentrate on thelatter mapping, reading distinction, in a waythat does not appeal to a particular choice onthe relation between lu and graphic word.A consistent approach to reading distinctionis necessary, because inconsistencies in read-ing distinction in an MT system will compli-ca.te transfer components between a pair of lan-guages, and jeopardize xtensibility of the sys-tem.
A correct solution will save time in devel-opment and improve performance.
The centralquestion in this area can be formulated as in(1).
(1) Given an lu X and two of its senses ocland 5'2, is X ambiguous or vague withrespect o S1 and $2 ?In (1) a sense of an lu is the meaning the 1ll hasin a certain set of contexts.
If the lu is vague,both senses are covered by the same reading.If it is ambiguous, S1 and $2 are examples ofdifferent readings of the lu, each reading beingrepresented in a single entry.2 Some common methodsSince every reading distinction creates lexicalambiguity that has to be solved, it seems at-tractive to use the features expressing the rele-vant information as criterion for answering (1):An lu is ambiguous between $1 and $2 iff thereis a feature describing the dilference.If we only take morphological and sylltacticfeatures, many intuitively clear cases of ambi-guity (e.g.
bank as financial institution vs. as162river verge) cannot be expressed.
This will leadto problems in transfer or in generation.
Onthe other hand, these features will cause un-wanted distinctions as well, e.g.
Prench fonc-tionnair'e (civil servant) with gender masculineor feminine, and kneel with past tense l~neegdor knelt.
It makes no sense to try to disam-biguate these.The use of semantic features to define aln-biguity should be rejected for similar reasons.First, we have to determine a fixed set of fea-tures a priori, since otherwise no answers toquestions of reading distinction evolve.
Thisimposes an artificial upper bound on readingdistinction.
Moreover, the availability of a cer-tain feature does not mean that it has to beassigned in all cases.
We will certainly havea feature expressing the male/fema.le contra.st,but it is not desirable to create two readingsof parent accordingly, leading to a translationof pa~r.nts into something meaning mother(s)a~zd/or Jhther~,:).Alternatively, we couhl argue thal, sincetranslation is the goal, it shouh\] be the cri-terium \[br reading distinction as well, answer-ing (1): An lu having two senses is ambigu-ous iff there are diffe.rent ranslations for thetwo senses.
Leaving aside the non.-trivial prob-lem of determining whether there are differ-ent translations, we have to admit that thereare cases of exceptional distinctions in one lan-guage, e.g.
fle'uve vs. r'ivi&c in French, mean-i ng river ending in a, sea or in another river re-spectively.
"l"hese distinctions will influence allother dictionaries in the system, in the sensethat e.g.
English 7+iver and Dutch r'ivier be-.come anabiguous, and there are two transla-t;ion rules between them.
If we restrict ourattention to a limited grou I) of languages, e.g.the languages in the system, the system be-comes difficult to extend, siace adding a newlanguage from outside this group will affect allexisting dictionaries.
Otherwise there is a con-ceptual problem, since it will ,rover be possibleto decide that an lu is vague, unless we knowal\] languages of the world.
Instead, cases ofexceptional distinctions, bilinqual ambiguities,are best ihandled in transfer between the twolanguages, because they really are translationpro blems..Summarizing, taking the means (features) orthe goal (translation) as a criterium for read-.ing distinction results in decisions that causevarious practical problems and are intuitivelyincorrect.
Furthermore these strategies detachthe notion of reading from meaning, which istheoretically undesirable.Taking only intuitions as our guide will linkreading to meaning, but if even trained intu-itions or lexicographers do not prevent incon-sistencies, as can be seen in many publisheddictionaries, there is not much hope of reach-ing consistency, unless we manage to find somesupport for the intuitions.3 A semant ic  methodThe tests I will propose here to decide on read-ing distinction are based on monolingual mean-ing, and yield a substantially greater degree ofconsistency than direct, ui~.aided intuitions.
Itis based on the following conjecture.
(2) There is a set of processes P, that, givena single occurrence of an lu, can stretchthe actual meaning of the 1,l in the con-text to the boundaries of the readingthe lu has, but not beyond.In order to be able to check the results,we will first consider some tests where spe-cific processes in P are used, as a.pplied tosome intuitiveh, clear cases of ambiguity (e.g.ba~dv" as financial institution vs. river verge) andvagueness (e.g.
elephant as Indian elephant vs.African elephant).
Then the scope of thesetests will be expanded to other cases.A well-known test evolving from (2) is basedon conjunction.
Lakoff (1970) proposed a. testwhere anaphoric so in the second clause of aconjunction refers back to an antecedent con-taining the lu :for which the question of readingdistinction arises, ms in (3).
(3) a. John went to a bank this morning,and so did Mary.b.
John saw an elephant, and so didMary.The question to be asked in this cast is whethertile sentence is semantically normal when tileanaphor is interpreted in the other sense thanits antecedent.
Clearly, (3a) is strange in this163interpretation, whereas (3b) is normal, con-firming that bank but not elephant is ambigu-ous in the relevant way (cf.
Cruse (1986) on theuse of semantic normality judgements).
Otheranaphors, e.g.
one, there can be used as well.The answers are more reliable in case of an an-tecedent contmning less lexical material out-side the lu in question.
In (3a), the antecedentof so is go to a bank, and ambiguity might beclaimed to arise from the verb.
Using one in-stead of so takes away this possibility, which isespecially relevant in less clear cases.Other processes use quantifiers.
One, basedon Wiggins (1971), uses universal quantifica-tion.
It is exemplified in (4).
(4) a.
All banks in this town are safe.b.
All elephants in th.is zoo are old.The question to be asked here is whether all Xcan be interpreted as all $1 or all ,%., or onlyas all $1 and all $2.
Whereas (4a) can meaneither that there is no danger of flooding orthat bank-robbers are effectively discouraged,and it is odd when used to mean both, (4b) canonly be used to predicate over both African andIndian elephants in the zoo that they are old.A variant using negation in the same way isdiscussed by Kempson & Cormack (1981).A slightly different test can be pertbrmedwith a universal quantifier somewhat remotefrom the relevant lu, as in (5).
(5) a.
Every town has a bank.b.
Every zoo ha~s an elephant.The question to be asked here is whether theX (bank/elephant) has to be interpreted in thesame sense for every Y (town/zoo).
In a similarway numerals can be used as in (6), and coor-dination as in (7), requiring the same question.
(6) a.
This town has two banks.b.
This zoo has two elephants.
(7) a.b.John and Mary went to a bank thismorning.John and Mary saw an elephant hismorning.Summarizing, there are three main classesof processes in P behaving as in (2).
The firstone refers to two elements from the extensionof the lu, one of them by an anaphor, as in(3).
The second one refers to the flfll extensionof a reading at once, as in (4).
The third onerefers to a group of elements in the extension,exploiting distributivity, as in (5)-(7).
Eachclass is associated with a difl'erent question theanswer of which determines whether an anal-ysis as ambiguity or as vagueness is correct.There are various realizations of test sentencesfor each class, some of which are subject to in-dependently motivated constraints.
In a nat-ural way an intuitively appealing definition ofreading evolves as in (8).
(8) A reading of an lu is a coherent group ofsenses, the boundaries of which ('aunotbe crossed by a single occurrence of thelu without losing semantic normality.4 The  tes ts  in  ac tua l  useIn the previous section, semantic tests wereshown to give correct answers in cases wherewe can check them.
This proves that we shouldnot immediately reject the tests.
The reasonwe need them however, is that there are manycases wtmre unaided intuition is not sufficientlydeterminate, so that conflicts on the correctan,~tysls might arise.A well-known problem area is the al~alysis ofprivative oppositions, where one of the sensesis more general and includes the other one.Both dog and lion have senses animal belongingto a particular species of mammals and malespecimen of that species.
According to Kemp-son (1980) they are both vague with respectto these senses, but Zwicky ~: Sadock (1975)claim that dog but not lion is ambiguous.
Ap-plying various tests to them we get the follow-ing sentences.
(9) a. John has a dog, and Mary ihas onetoo.b.
The zoo has a lion, and the circushas one too.
(lo) a.b.All dogs of this breed are short-sighted.All lions in this wild reserve havebeen killed by poachers.164(11) a.
This family has two dogs.b.
This zoo has two lions.The sentences (9) and (1.1) cannot lead to a.conclusion for independent reasons.
Since anindividual or a group in the more specific senseof the lu is also an individual or a group inthe general sense, the general sense is alwaysavailable to cover up the opposition.
This isnot the case when the flfll extensions are com-pared, however.
Therefore from (10) we can in--deed conclude that dog is ambiguous and lionis not.
Both (10a) and (10b) have the gen-eral interpretation, but only (10a) also has themore specific one (cf .
.
.
.
, b,tt not the bitchesvs.
* .
.
.
,  but not the lionesses).Another problem that comes up is the con-struction of test sentences for other syntacticcategories than nouns.
Although the variousprocesses are most easily demonstrated withnouns, nothing in the theory refers to nouns di-rectly.
VP-anaphors, e.g.
so, can also be usedfor w~rbs.
(12) a. John has been running 'all day, andso has his washing machine.b.
John has been running all day, andso has his dog.
(13) John followed Mary, and Bill (lid sotoo.The sentences in (12) show the ambiguity ofrun between tile senses with a human and amachine subject, and the vagueness betweensenses with a biped and a quadruped subject.For transitive verbs, such as follow, having thesense understand and go after, the result ofthe test is more disputable, since (13) showsthe ambiguity of follow Mary, and one couldargue that it is due to ambiguity of Mary, e.g.between the senses thinking person and spa-tial object.
Therefore, the use of a non-lexicalanaphor, indicated by # in the examples, is tobe preferred.
(14) John followed Mary, and Bill # Kate.It is rather difficult to construct a sentencewith a quantifier over the verb comparable to(4) for nouns.
Rather, a sentence such as (15)below displays the same distributivity effect as(5), that can also be achieved by coordinationas in (16).
(15) All boys followed Mary.
(16) John and Bill followed Mary.Tile test sentences for verbs can also be usedfor adjectives, if they are used predicatively.An example is (17), where black is shown tohave different readings when used with a con-crete object and with humour.
(17) Her dress is black, and so is her hu-n~lour .For gradable adjectives, a comparison is a ba-sis for constructing a test sentence.
Although(17) can be used humoristica.lly, (118) below, il-lustrating the ambiguity of fair, ca:n hardly beinterpreted.
(18) Her hair is as fair as the salary she pa~ysher employees.In general it seems that for gradable adjectivescomparison provokes tronger judgements thananaphoric reference by so.
In some cases, how-ew,,r, one of the senses cannot be used predica-tively, and neither of the two processes can beused.
An empty anaphor sometimes provides asolution, as in (19), where economic is shownto be ambiguous between the senses relati~g tothe economy and not wasteful.
(19) For Inany years, he produced economictheories ~nd # cars.In sorne languages, there is a lexical anaphorthat requires an adjective as its antecedent, e.g.dito in Dutch, as illustrated in (20).
(20) Bij hun gouden bruiloft kregenze een dito horloge.(Litt.)
'At their golden wedding gotthey a # watch'Among the remaining problems is the com-parison of two senses with big syntactic differ-ences.
All test sentences have to be syntacti-cally correct, and syntax does not allow e.g.
co-ordination of a noun and a verb in correspond-ing positions, tn such cases, tile semantic partof testing the senses is never a.rrived at.1655 Conc lus ionIn this paper, I developed tests to answer thequestion whether an lu with two senses is tobe analyzed as ambiguous or vague with re-spect to them from the semantic conjecture(2).
The tests allow for theoretically well-founded and consistent decisions in many cases.In MT, they determine a proper balance onthe cline between what can easily be disam-biguated monolingually, and what is useful asa distinction in translation.
As such they definethe target for monolingual disambiguation, andthe class of bilingual ambiguities, that shouldbe treated in transfer.
Since the MT environ-ment has only been used in the argumentation,not in the solution proposed, theoretical well-foundedness and consistency evolving from thetests presented here are equally valid in otherenvironments where a monolingual dictionaryis used.References(;ruse, D.A.
(1986).
Lexical Semantics, Cam-bridge University Press.Kempson, Ruth (1980).
~ Ambiguity and WordMeaning', in: Greenbaum, Sidney, GeoffreyLeech & Jan Svartvik, St'udics in English Lin-guistics, Longman, London / New York, p. 7-16.Kempson, Ruth & Annabel Cormack (1981).
'Ambiguity and Quantification', Linguisticsand Philosophy ~, p. 259-309.Lakoff, George (1970).
'A Note on Vaguenessand Ambiguity', Linguistic lnquiry i ,  p. 357-359.Wiggins, David (1971).
'On sentence-sense,word-sense and difference of word-sense.
To-wards a philosophical theory of dictionaries.
'In: Steinberg, Danny ,~ Leon Jakobovits (ed.
).Semantics, Cambridge University Press, p. 14-34.Zwicky, Arnold & Jerrold Sadock (1975).
~Am-biguity tests and how to fail them', in: Kim-ball, John (ed.).
Syntax and semantics 1, Aca-demic Press, p. 1-36.166
