Is there  content  in empty  heads?
*Louise Guthrie, Brian M. Slator,** Yorick Wilks, and Rebecca BruceComputing Research LaboratoryBox 30001New Mexico State UniversityLas Cruces, NM 88003-0001ABSTRACTWe describe a technique for automatically constructing a taxonomy of word senses from amachine readable dictionary.
Previous taxonomies developed from dictionaries have two pro-perties in common.
First, they are based on a somewhat loosely defined notion of the IS-Arelation.
Second, they require human intervention to identify the sense of the genus term beingused.
We believe that for taxonomies of this type to serve a useful role in subsequent aturallanguage proce,sing tasks, the taxonomy must be based on a consistent use of the IS-A relationwhich allows inheritance and transitivity.
We show that hierarchies of this type can beautomatical!y constructed, by using the semantic ategory codes and the subject codes of theLongman Dictionary of Contemporary English (LDOCE) to disambiguate the genus terms innoun definitkms.
In addition, we discuss how certain genus terms give rise to other semanticrelations between definitions.1.
IntroductionIn order to extract meaning from text, we mustat least disambiguate he words used in the text.
Thenormal sceaario is to locate the disambiguated wordsin some knowledge base, which gives additionalinfc, m~,ation about the words and their properties, sothat some of the higher-minded tasks of naturali;mgt.,age processing (NLP) can be accomplished:tasks iike determining speech acts, identifying topica~_d focus shifts for discourse analysis, and drawinginferences.
The work described here is a step rewarddeveloping an initiN knowledge base for NLP byautomatmally transforming information found inmachine readable dictionaries into a data base suit-able for a variety of NLP applications.The overall scheme of the work at CRL onInachine readable dictionaries i described in Wilks etal.
(1988, 1989, 1990).
As part of that work, Slator(1988a, 1988b; Slator and Wilks, 1987, 1990)developed a program called Lexicon Provider whichcreates frames from the dictionary definitions of wordsenses provided by the Longman's Dictionary ofContemporary English (LDOCE).
Each frame is con-** Prc~cnt address: Department of Computer Science, NorthDakota State University, Fargo, ND 58105nected via an IS-A link to some other word (spellingform) in the dictionary.
Our goal in this paper is torefine that work so as to connect each frame toanother word sense in the dictionary.
This insuresthat properties can be consistently inherited in thisgraph structure (since A IS-A B allows A to inheritproperties of B).
We can think of this task as build-ing a taxonomy of the word senses in LDOCE.This paper presents our techniques for automat-ing this task for noun definitions, using the specialc~?led information found in the machine readable ver-sion of LDOCE.
We also present ways to extractother semantic relations automatically as part of theprocess.2.
BackgroundDictionary definitions of nouns are normallywritten in such a way that one can identify a "genusterm" for the headword (the word being defined) viaan IS-A relation.
The information following thegenus term, the differentia, serves to differentiate he* ~Pnis research was supported by the New Mexico StateUniversity Computing Research Laboratory through NSFGrant No.
1RI-8811108 - -  Grateful acknowledgement is ac-corded to all the members of file CRL Natural LanguageGroup for their comments and suggestions.138 -1oheadword from other headwords with the samegenus.
For example, (from LDOCE):knife - a blade fixed in a handle, used for cut-ting as a tool or weapon.Here "blade" is the genus term of the headword"knife" and "fixed in a handle, used for cutting as atool or weapon" yields differentia.
In other words, a"knife" IS-A "blade" (genus) distinguished from otherblades by the features of its differentia.
In order tocreate a taxonomy of word senses, this genus termmust be identified and also sense-tagged (in this case,by ruling out blade of grass, propeller blade, and anamusing tcllow).Previous research on constructing taxonomiesfrom machine readable dictionaries, i.e.
Amsler &White (1979) and, to some extent, Chodorow et.
al.
(1985), has relied on a good deal of human interven-tion whenever the taxonomy is composed of wordsenses rather than spelling forms.
Nakamura 8:Nagao (1988) automatically constructed a utxonomy,but did not distinguish the senses of nouns and hencecannot allow inheritance of properties along the linksof the implied network created by the taxonomy.Because of the semantic category markings inLDOCE, we have been able to develop heuristic pro-cedures (described in section 4), that, to a greatextent, automate the task of developing a hierarchy ofword senses.Constructing t,%xonomies from tt, e genus termsof definitions forces one to take a stand on how totreat a large class of noun definitions which are not as"standard" as the definition given above for knife.The characteristic property of these definitions is thatthe head of the first noun phrase (the usual place tofind a genus term) seems vacuous, and another easilyidentifiable noun in the definition gives informationabout the headword.
Nakamura & Nagao (1988),identify these non-sumdard efinitions syntacticallyas:{det.}
{adj.
}* <Function Noun> of <Key Noun> {adj.
phrasc}*For example, the following definitions have the pro-perty that the head of the noun phrase following the"of" is more semantically relevant o the headwordthan the head of the first noun phrase.arum (LDOCE) - a tall, white type of Lilycyclamate (LDOCE) - any of various man-made sweeteners ...deuterium (Meniam-Webster Pocket Diction-,'try) - a form of hydrogen that is twicethe mass of ordinary hydrogenacademic (LDOCE) - a member of a college oruniversityThe form of this type of definition is predictablewhenever certain words ,are used as the head of thetirst noun phrase.
Amsler and White (1979) kept alist of these words, referring to them as partives andcollectives.
Nakamura & Nagao (1988) call themFunction Nouns.
Chodorow et al, (1985) refer to asubset of these as "empty heads".
Since we diS-Agree with certain elements of these characteriza-tions, we will use the terminology "disturbed heads".The question at issue is: what to do with these cases?In the original work of Amsler and White(1979) with the Merriam Webster Pocket Dictionary(MPD, 1964), file disturbed head cases were handledby asking paid human "disambiguators" to sense-tagthe head of the first noun phrase in the definition andalso to sense-tag any other noun in the definitionwhich "made a significant semantic ontribution to anIS-A link" (Amsler and White, 1979: p. 55) with theheadword being defined (i.e.
for the deuteriumdefinition above, "hydrogen" was sense tagged aswell as "form").
The taxonomy actually containexlboth a link from deuterium to "form" and a linkfrom deuterium to "hydrogen", although the hydro-gen sense was marked in a special way to indicate itis not the syntactic head of the definition.
In caseslike the "hydrogen" example just given, the marked"semantic ontributors" were never given ancestors,since the link often represented a more looselydefined relation than the strictly transitive "is a subsetof' definition of IS-A, which ideally relates the head-word and its genus sense.
This degenerate fo,zn ofIS-A precludes inheritance in the network.
It isincluded in the taxonomy in order to form links towords which may not be related in a strict IS-Asense, but which convey useful information about theword being defined.There have been various proposals over theyears suggesting different specialized link types to beadded to the taxonomy (besides the degenerate IS-A).Markowi~ et al, (1986) suggest HAS_MEMBERlinks be created in definitions which use the phrase"member of" (i.e.
"college" HAS_MEMBER"academic" in the definition of academic above).Nakamura & Nagao (1988) identify 41 different func-tion nouns and replace the IS-A link in their taxon-omy with various other links in these cases (except inthe "kind of", "type of", etc., definitions).
Amster(1980) suggests the incorporation of an IS_PART_OFlink in addition to the IS-A links in the earlier taxon-omy of Amsler & White (1979).Chodorow et ~d., (1985) automate the genusfinding process for nouns and verbs in Webster'sSeventh (W7, 1967).
However, in their work, onlythe spelling form of the genus is identified automati-cally; the sense selections are made by humans.
Thedisambiguation here is not to attach a sense number,but rather to perform a function termed "sprouting"-2- 139which interactively selects among all words whichhave a given word-sense as a genus.
Their taxonomycontains only IS-A links, but they partially attack the"disturbed head" problem by identifying a small classof what they call "empty heads".
The effect of theirmethod is to skip over seemingly vacuous terms(located where a genus is usually expected), and treatthe more semantically relevant term as the actualgenus.3.
Description of LDOCE and its limitationsThe Longman Dictionary of ContemporaryEnglish (LDOCE; Procter et at.
1978), is a full-sizeddictionary designed for learners of English as asecond language that contains 41,122 headwordentries, defined in terms of 72,177 word senses, inmachine-readable form (a type-setting tape).
Thebook and tape versions of LDOCE both use a systemof grammatical codes of about 110 syntacticcategories which vary in generality from, for exam-ple, noun to noun/count to noun/count/Jbllowed-by-infinitive-with-TO.
The machine readable version ofLDOCE also contains "box" and "subject" codes thatare not found in the book.
The box codes use a setof primitives uch as abstract, concrete, and animate,organized into a type hierarchy.
This hierarchy ofprimitive types conforms to the classical notion of theIS-A relation as describing proper subsets.
Theseprimitives are used to assign type restrictions onnouns and adjectives, and type restrictions on thearguments of verbs.
The subject codes are another setof terms organized into a hierarchy.
This hierarchyconsists of main headings uch as engineering withsubheadings like electrical.
These terms are used toclassify words by subject.
For example, one sense ofcurrent is classified as geology-and-geography whileanother sense is marked eragineering/electrical,This paper's overall goal is to make implicitsemantic information in the dictionary explicit.
How-ever, we are not doing "psychology of lexicography":the test of our derived structures i not whether theymatch any conscious or unconscious inferences oflexicographers, but whether they improve subsequentnatural language processing (e.g.
machine transla-tion).
Nor are we in any way concerned here withlow-level issues of the syntax of dictionary entries, itsexpression on tapes or pages, or by what device theinformation enters the computer.
It is of course astrong assumption that a fallible dictionary designedfor human learners of a second language also impli-citly contains the information eeded for successfulnatural anguage processing.
We make this assump-tion consciously as an empirical hypothesis.
Eventhough LDOCE has beneficial features, such as itsrestricted vocabulary for sense definition, we see noreason to believe at this stage that the taxonomic rela-tions we derive are in any way non-standard.4.
Automatically finding genus sensesA heuristic procedure that automatically findsdisambiguated genus terms for nouns has beendeveloped.
The initial stage of this procedure is toautomatically identify the genus term in thedefinition.
The Lexicon Provider (Slator 1988a,1988b; Slator and Wilks, 1987, 1990) mentionedabove has a parser which does this.
The parseraccepts LDOCE definitions as Lisp lists and producesphrase-structure t es.
LDOCE sense definitions aretypically one or more independent clauses composedof zero or more prepositional phrases, noun phrases,and/or relative clauses.
The syntax of sensedefinitions is relatively uniform, and developing agrammar for the bulk of LDOCE has not proven tobe an intractable problem.
Chart parsing wasselected for this system because of its utility as agrammar testing and development tool.
The chartparser is driven by a context frec grammar of 100-plus rules and has a lexicon derived from the 2,219words in the LDOCE core vocabulary.
The parser isleft-comer, and bottom-up, with top-down filtering.The context-free grammar driving the chart parser isvirtually unaugmented and, with certain minor excep-tions, no procedure associates constituents with whatthey modify.
Hence, there is little or no motivationfor assigning elaborate or competing syntactic struc-tures, since the choice of one over the other has nosemantic onsequence.
Therefore, the trees are con-structed to be as "flat" as possible.
The parser alsohas a "longest string" (fewest constituents) yntacticpreference.
The grammar is still being tuned, but thechart parser is already quite successful and worksextremely well over a fairly wide range of examplesfrom the language of content word definitions inLDOCE.
Ninety-Five percent result in a parse treefor the entire definition text.
Five percent of the ana-lyses fail at some point.
In those cases where it failsthe parser still returns a partial parse (of the leadingconstituents in the definition texO, and this is themost imporUmt part of a definition anyway.The second phase of this procedure is to findthe correct sense of the genus term that has beenidentified by the parser.
To do this, we have con-structed a program called the Genus Disambiguator,which takes as input the subject codes (pragmaticcodes) and box codes (semantic ategory codes) ofthe headword, taken from the machine readable ver-sion of LDOCE, and the spelling form of the genusword which has been identified by the parserdescribed above.
The output is the correct sense ofthe genus word.The codes in LDOCE seem to support thethesis that the genus for a noun must be a noun, andthat the semantic ategory of the genus word must be140 -3-the same as, or an ancestor of, the semantic ategoryof the headword.
The word ancestor refers tosuperordinate terms in the hierarchy of semanticcodes defined by the Longman lexicographers.
Thestrategy of the algorithm is:1. choose the genus sense whose semanticcodes identically match with the head-word, if possible;2. if not, choose the sense whose semanticcategory is the closest ancestor to thesemantic ategory of the headword;3. in the case of a tie, the subject codes areused to determine the winner;4. if subject codes cannot be used to break thetie, the first one of the tied senses whichappears in the dictionary is chosen (sincemore frequently used senses are listedfirst in LDOCE),The lollowing examples illustrate the algo-rithm.
The ordered pair following the headword con-sists of the box code and subject code as found indictionary (the notation following that is the Englishgloss for these particular codes).
Many definitionsare not given a subject code in LDOCE mid a dash(--) is used here to indicate that.
Consider the fol-lowing LDOCE definition.ambulance - (J:movable-solid, AUZV: Auto-motive /Vehicle-Types) .- motor vehiclefor carrying sick or wounded people esp.to hospitalThe genus of ambulance is the word "vehicle",which is fl)und by the Lexicon Provider's parser;therefore the input to the Genus Disambiguator is:(ambulance J AUZV vehicle)The following are the LDOCE definitions for thenoun senses of vehicle?vehlcN!
?l - (J:movable-solid, TNVH: Transpor-tation /Vehicles) - something in or onwhich people or goods c,'m be carriedfrom one place to another ...vehicle-2 (T:abstract,--) something bymeans of which something else can bepassed on or spread: Television hasbecome an important vehicle for spread-ing political ideasvehicle-3 - (T:abstract,--)  a means for show-ing off a person's abilities: The writerwrote this big part in his play simply asa vehicle for the famous actressIn this case the Genus Disambiguator chooses thetirst sense of vehicle, because of the match betweenthe "movable-solid" semantic codes, therefore theoutput is "vehicle-l".
There are many cases, however,where a direct match is not found.
Consider the fol-lowing LDOCE definition.dart ?
(J:movable-solid,GA:Games) o a smallsharpwpointed object to be thrown, shot,etc ....The word "object" is the genus of dart, making theinput to the Genus Disambigalator(dart J GA object)The following are the LDOCE noun definitions for"object"object-1 - (S:movable-solid,--)  a thingobject-2 o (l:human-and~solid,--) - somethingor someone that produces interest orother effect ...object-3 ~ (l:human-and-solid,--)  somethingor someone unusual or that causeslaughterobject-4 - (T:abstract,-~) - purpose; aimobject-5 (T:abstract,LN:Linguistics-and-Grammar) - word(s) saying with whomor with what, a PREPOSITION ...In this example there is no direct match between thesemantic odes of the headword, dart, and any of thesenses of the genus, "object"; therefore the GenusDisambiguator must traverse up the type hierarchy,described in section 3, to find the closest ancestor ofboxcode "J" (movable-solid) that is present in thedefinitions of the genus word.
In this case, boxcode"S" (solid) is found one level above "J" and the out-put is "object-l".
There are still other cases, how-ever, when more than one sense definition has seman-tic codes matching the codes of the headword.
Con-sider the following LDOCE definition.flute - (J:movable-solid,MU:Music) - a pipelikewooden or metal musical instrument withfinger holes, played by blowing across ahole in the side ...The genus of flute is the word "instrument"; there-fore, the input to the Genus Disambiguator is(flute J MU instrument)The following ,are the LDOCE definitions for instru-ment?instrumentol (J:movable-solid, HWZT:Hardware/Fools) - an object used to helpin work: medical instrumentsinstrument-2 - 0:movable-solid,MU:Music) -... an object which is played to givemusical sounds (such as a piano, a horn,etc.)
...instrument-3 - (Z:unmarked,--)  someone orsomething which seems to be used by anoutside force to cause something to hap-pen: an instrument of fate-4o 141In this case both the first and second senses ofinstrument are marked as "J", (movable-solid),which matches perfectly with the selection restrictionfor flute.
However, the tie is broken by appeal to thesubject code, Music, which selects the second senseof instrument as the genus of flute, and the output is"instrument-2".There are occasional failures, many of whichappear to be due to unusual markings in LDOCE.For exmnple, the LDOCE definition for banana is:banana - (P:plant,PMZ5:Plant-Names) - any ofseveral types of long curved tropicalfruit, shaped like a thick finger, with ayellow skin and a soft, usu.
sweet, inside.
.
.The genus of banana is the word "fruit", and theinput to the Genus Disambiguator is(banana P PM fruit)The following are the LDOCE definitions for fruit.fruit-1 - (J:movable-solid,FO:Food) - an objectthat grows on a tree or bush, containsseeds, is used for food, but is not usu.eaten with meat or with saltfruit-2 - (S:solid,FO:Food) - these objects ingeneral, esp.
considered as food ...fruit-3 - (J:movable-solid,FO:Food) - a type ofthis objectfruit-4 - (J:movable-solid,BO:Botany) aseed-containing part of any plantfruit-5 - (T:abstract,--)  a result, good or bad:His failure is the fruit of lazinessfruit-6 - (M:male/human,--)  fellow (in thephr.
old fruit)In this case, banana is marked as a "plant" but, forsome reason, the likely candidates defined under fruitare all marked "solid" or "movable-solid".
Since nei-ther solid nor movable-solid ,are ancestor to plant inthe LDOCE type hierarchy they are all equally bad,from the point of view of the Genus Disambiguator,and the default is invoked, which is to choose thelowest numbered sense from among the competitors.Therefore the first sense is selected and the output is"fruit-l".
This happens to be correct, but it is anunsatisfying resolution.In a piece of related work, Slator (1988a) hasimplemented a scheme in the Lexicon Provider whichimposes deeper structure onto the LDOCE subjecthierarchy (e.g.
terms like Food, Botany, and Plant-Names in the "fruit" definitions above) relating thesecategories in a natural way, in order to discoverimportant relationships between concepts within text.This manual restructuring simply observes that wordsclassified under Botany have pragmatic onnectionsto words classified as Plant-Names, as well as con-nections with other words classified under Science(connections not made by the LDOCE hierarchy asgiven), and that these connections are useful toexploit.The Lexicon Provider system relates thesecodes through a specially restructured hierarchycreated for that purpose, making Communication,Economics, Entertainment, Household, Politics,Science, and Transportation the fundamentalcategories.
Every word sense defined with a subjectcode therefore has a position in the new hierarchy,attached below the node for its subject code.
Oncethis feature is implemented in the Genus Disambigua-tor, the subject code hierarchy can be used to resolvethe "banana-fruit" case above in a somewhat moresatisfactory way, by choosing sense 4 of fruit.5.
Identifying other relationships automaticallyThe identification of a satisfactory genus termand the construction of a taxonomy is not straightfor-ward in all cases.
It is clear that the problems in thisarea are difficult, numerous, and can be seen toencompass a great variety of relationships.
Webelieve that a thorough study of this shadowy area isnecessary in order to make optimal use of the seman-tic information available in machine readable dic-tionaries.
Although we do not have complete solu-tions, we have additional insights into the problem ofextracting supplementary information from the "dis-turbed head" definitions.Chodorow et al (1985) examined aphenomenon that they described as follows:" I f  the word found belongs to a smallclass of "empty heads" (words like one,any, kind, class, manner, family, race,group, complex, etc.)
and is followed byof, then the string following of is repro-cessed in an effort to locate additionalheads."
(pg.
301).Although the empty head rule seems to be areasonable one in certain situations, we have reserva-tions about its use.
The empty head rule producesundesirable ffects in an IS-A hierarchy for some ofthe collective words (that Chodorow et al treat asempty): set, group, class etc.
Our response to theempty head phenomenon is to process them in thesame way, but limiting this processing to a muchsmaller set; that is, to those heads that are trulyempty -- the set containing {one, any, kind, type}.Consider the LDOCE definition:canteen - (British English) a set of knives,forks and spoons, usu.
for 6 or 12 peo-pleSince "set" is one of the empty heads for Chodorowet al, their procedure would create IS-A links to142..5-"knives", "forks" and "spoons", and this again wouldviolate the inheritance properties that should bepreserved via IS-A links.
Our response to the collec-tive heads, {set, group, collection, class of, familyof} (which we maintain are not truly empty, simplydisturbed), is to form a taxonomic link to the correctsense of "set," "group," or "class" etc.
and to form aHASMEMBER link to the noun or nouns whichdescribe the elements of the collective (as found inthe differentia of the headword efinition).
Further,we propose that definitions in which the genus termis plural be treated in the stone way as those whichbegin with "a set of''.In general, our view is that the disturbeA headsshould be grouped in the sense of Nakamura &Nagao (1988), and that additional links (likeHAS MEMBER, IS PART OF, etc.)
should becreated whenever they are appropriate.
However, it isour position that IS-A links should also be created forevery word sense given in the dictionary.
Moreover,in order to maintain inheritance and transitivity in theIS-A network, a strict "subset of" definition of IS-Ashould be maintained.Unlike Nakamura & Nagao (1988), we proposethat "member of'' definitions hould not be groupedwith the "set of", "group of" definitions.
All but one"member of" definition in LDOCE uses ~'member of"to mean "person who is a member of".
We recom-mend that in this case, a link be created from theheadword to "person", and that the appropriateMEMBER-OF link is constructed.
The exceptionalcase, where "member of`' does not refer to a person,is in the definition of feline : "a meml~er of the catfamily."
This case must be treated separately, since itis impossible to identify the correct sense of the word"member" here, given that all these senses, inLDOCE, are marked as referring to a human or a partof the human body.The difficulty of these many varieties of specialcases (~td they are not so special, since there arehundreds of them in the dictionary), is that they callinto question certain of the long held assumptionsabout the taxonomic structure of dictionaries.
Theconventional wisdom has always been that dictionarydefinitions contained a genus term (a term more gen-eral than the one being defined), and that this termcould almost invariably be found in the first phrase ofthe definition text.
Further, the exceptions to thisconvention, the "empty heads" like "one of" or "anyof", have been viewed as being similarly well-behaved.
Our investigations lead us to conch\]de thatthings are not so simple as they once appeared; andthe question of what to do with these troublesomecases is far from resolved.6.
ReferencesAmsler, Robert A. and John S. White (1979).
l)evclopment of aComputational Methodology for Deriving NaturalLanguage Semantic Structures via Analysis of Machine-readable Dictionaries.
NSF Technical Report.
(MCS77-01315).Amsler, Robert A.
(1980).
The Structure of the Merriam-WebsterPocket Dictionary, Tech:fical Report.
(TR-164).
Universityof Texas at Austin.
Ph.D. Thesis.Chodorow, Martin S., Roy I. Byrd, and George E. Heidom (1985).Extracting Semantic llierarehies from a Large On-Line Dic-tionary.
Proceedings of the 23rd Annual Meeting of theACL, pp.
299-304.
Chicago, ILMarkowitz, Judith, Thomas Ahlswede, and Martha Evens (1986).Semantically Significant Patterns in Dictiona:y Definitions,Proceedings of the 24th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pp.
112- i 19.
New York.MPD (1964).
The New Merriam.Webster Pocket Dictionary.Pocket Books, New York.Nakamura, Jun-ichi, and Makoto Nagao (1988).
F~xtraction ofSemantic Information from an Ordinary English Dictionaryaml its Evaluation.
Proceedings ofCOLING-88, Budapest,IIungary.
pp.
459-464.Procter, Paul et al (1978).
Longman Dictionary of ContemporaryEnglish (LDOCE).
lladow, Essex, UK: Longman GroupLtd.Slator, Brian M. (1988a).
Constructing Contextually OrganizedLexical Semantic Knowledge-bases.
Proceedings of theThird Annual Rocky Mountain Conference on ArtifcialIntelligence (RMCAI.88).
Denver, CO, June 13-15, pp.142-148.Slator, Brian M. (1988b).
Lexicai Semantics and a PreferenceSemantics Analysis.
Memoranda in Computer and Cogni-tive Science.
(MCCS-88.143).
lats Cruces, NM: Comput-ing Research Laboratory, New Mexico State University.
(Doctoral Dissertation).Slator, Brian M. and Yorick A. Wilks.
(1987).
Towards SemanticStructures from Dictionary Entries.
Proceedings of theSecond Annual Rocky Mountain Conference on ArtificialIntelligence (RMCA1-87) Boulder, CO, June 17-19, pp.85-96.Slator, Brian M. and Yorick A. Wilks (Forthcoming - 1990).Towards Semantic Structures from Dictionary Entries.Linguistic Approaches toArtificial Intelligence.
Edited byAndre,as Kunz and Ulrich Schmitz~ Frankfurt: Peter L.angPublishing House.
(Revision of RMCAI.87).W7 (1967).
Webster' s Seventh New Collegiate Dictionary.
C. & C.Merriam Company, Springfield, MA.Wilks, Yorick A., Dan C. Fass, Cheng-Ming Guo, lames E.McDonald, Tony Plate, and Brian M. Slator (1988).Machine Tractable Dictionaries as Tools and Resources forNatural Language Processing.
Proceedings of the 12thInternational Conference on Computational Linguistics(COUNG.88), pp.
750-755.
Budapest, Hungary.
Aug.22-27Wilks, Yorick A., Dan C. Fass, Cheng-Ming Guo, James E.McDonald, Tony Plate, and Brian M. Slator (1989).
ATractable Machine Dictionary as a Resource for Computa-tional Semantics.
Computational Lex&ography for NaturalLanguage Processing.
FAired by Bran Boguraev and TedBriscoe.
Harlow, Essex, UK: Longman and New York:Wiley and Sons.
pp.
193-228.Wilks, Yorick A., Dan C. Fass, Clheng-Ming Guo, James E.McDonald, Tony Plate, and Brian M. Slator (Forthcoming -1990).
Providing Machine Tractable DictionaryTools.Computers and Tratt?lation.
Also to appear inTheoretical nd Computational Issues in Lexical Semantics(I'CILS).
Edited by James Pustejovsky.
Cambridge, MA:MIT Press.-6- 143
