THE SELF-EXTENDING LEX ICON:  OFF-L INE  AND ON-L INE  DEFAULT INGOF  LEX ICAL  INFORMATION IN  THE METAL  MACHINE TRANSLAT ION SYSTEM (I)Geer t  Adr iaens  Maar ten  LemmensSiemens CSL &Un ivers i ty  of LeuvenDepartment  of L ingu is t i csMETAL Pro jectM.
Theres ias t raat  21B-3000 Leuven, Be lg iums iegeer t@cs .ku leuven.ac .be+ 32 16 285091Un ivers i ty  of LeuvenDepartment  of L ingu is t i csB \ ] i jde - Inkomsts t raat  21B-3000 Leuven, Be lg ium+32 16 2847760.
INTRODUCTIONThe DEFAULTER component  of the METAl, MTsystem has been deve loped as a tool forextend ing  the ex is t ing  lex icons (off- l inedefaul t ing)  and is the bas is  for a category-guess ing  dev ice  for unknown words (on-l inede \ [au l t ing) .i, SOME BACKGROUND FOR THE METAL  MT SYSTEM (2)I.I.
METAL  MONOLINGUAL D ICT IONARIESMETAL mono l ingua l  lex icon entr ies  arer(~presented as feature -va lue  structures,access ib le  by the i r  c i ta t ion  or "canonica l"form?
For  each canonica l  form, the a !
lomorph icva~\[iants (spel l ing var iants,  i r regu lar  forms,etc.)
are stored.1,2.
MORPHOLOGY AND MORPHOSYNTACTIC  (ANALYSIS)RULESIn METAL, morpho log ica l  ana lys is  is arecurs ive  process  of lookup and segmentat ionthat scans input words  f rom left to r ight insearch of thei r  component  parts.
This resu l tsin a set of poss ib le  in terpretat ions  whichcor respond to  acceptab le  sequences of morphemesrecogn ized  in the word (3).
Words  (or par ts  ofcomplex  words) which are not in the d ic t ionarywi l l  be ass igned the category  UNK (forUNKnown).
The morphemes  that are the result  ofmorpho log ica l  ana lys is  are then put in a charts t ructure  for fur ther  p rocess ing  by(morpho)synt~ct ic  rules.2 ?
OFF-L INE  DEFAULT ING2.1.
GENERAL DESCRIPT IONThe defau l te r  f irst checks whether  a word  isin the d ic t ionary  (level O).
If not, it t r iesto f ind morpho log ica l ly  re lated entr ies,  sothat the in fo rmat ion  for the new words  can betaken from those ex is t ing  entr ies  (level i).If no re la ted  ent r ies  can be found, the form ofthe word  can g ive ind icat ions  of its (mainly)phono log ica l  and morpho log ica l  character i s t i cs(level 2).
Hence, the need to organize thisknowledge in an exhaust ive,  modu lar  and eas i lyextendab le  way, so that at \].east part  of thein fo rmat ion  for new entr ies  can be generatedautomat ica l ly .2.2 DETAILED DESCRIPT IONThe DEFAULTER system cons is ts  of three modules:(I) a BASIC modu le  conta in ing  language-independent  funct ions  (like tab le  manipulat ion,d ic t ionary  checking,  c reat ing  de fau l ted  entr iesin METAL format, genera l  s t r ing  manipulat ion,etc.).
Furthermore,  the bas ic  module  containsthe necessary  in fo rmat ion  about what features(of the set de f ined  for METAL) should not becop ied  from entr ies  that are a l ready in thed ict ionary,  but should  get new va lues  for thepar t i cu la r  word  in quest ion.
(2) for each lan~lage, a language-dependentmodule  conta in ing  funct ions  whose a lgor i thmsdepend on the language involved.
(3) for each language, a set of tablesconta in ing  language-dependent  in fo rmat ion  in adec la ra t ive  way.
The smartness  of the systemdepends large ly  on their  completeness  anddegree of refinedness?
There are three majortypes of tables:(3?1) STANDARD-ENTRIES-TABLES,  conta in ing  foreach category  the min imal  feature-va luein fo rmat ion  that has to be in the lexicon.
(3.2) CONTROL-TABLES,  conta in ing  for eachcategory  the funct ions  to be app l ied  for t ry ingto f ind a re la ted  root form in the lexicon?
(3.3) ENDINGS-TABLES,  conta in ing  for eachcategory  de fau l ted  the end ings  that a l low oneto fi\]\] in the va lues  for spec i f ic  features(see Lemmens 1988).
An ent ry  in the table hasthe fo l low ing  genera l  structure:(ENDING-PATTERN(ALO-PATTERNI  (FEATI (VALI .. VALm)FEATn (VALI .. VALn)))(ALO-PATTERN2 (FEAT1 (VALI .?
VALm)FEATn (VALI .. VALn) ) )(ALO-PATTERNn (FEAT1 (VALI .. VALm)?
?FEATn (VALI , .VALn))))(3.4) bes ide  these three major  tables, thesystem needs to know about the l ingu is t ica l lymot ivated  ways to f ind the root form of a- 1 - 305morpho log ica l ly  complex  word.
For  verbs,nouns, ad jec t ives  and adverbs (subject toproduct ive  morpho log ica l  processes) ,  the sys temhas exhaust ive  l ists  of der ivat iona l  pre f ixesit wi l l  t ry  to match  wi th  the word  to bedefaul ted.
If these pre f ixes  require thatcer ta in  de fau2ted  va lues  be changed, this wi l lbe s tored in add i t iona l  convers ion  tab les  forover r id ing  defaul t  in fo rmat ion  (4).O f f - l ine  de fau l t ing  p lays  a major  role inthe INTERCODER subsystem, a w indow andmenu-based  in teract ive  cod ing tool  that h idesthe interna l  representat ion  of in fo rmat ion  inthe lex icons  f rom the user  ~nd presents  it in amore  f r iend ly  way.
Secondly,  deve lopers  of theMETAL sys tem can s imply  defaul t  f i les wi thwords and create a new file with de fau l tedentr ies .
These f i les can then be ed i ted  withany type of ed i to r  to correct  and complete  theent r ies  be fore  adding them to the lexicons.2.3.
PROBLEMS WITH OFF-LINE DEFAULTINGMost prob lems wi th  o f f - l ine  de fau l t ing  occurat level  i, when the word  takes over  cer ta infeatures  f rom its morpho log ica l ly  re lated bas icform, wh i le  th is  is incorrect .Unfor tunate ly ,  these er rors  are hard  topredict .
At level  2 (when defau l t ing  can onlyresort  to the end ings- tab les ) ,  errors  aremost ly  a mere consequence  of incompleteness  inthese tables.
These errors  are usua l ly  eas ierto detect  because  they are more st r ik ing (e.g.when they  lead to the creat ion  of severalimposs ib le  a l lomorphs  for a word).3.
ON-LINE DEFAULTING3.1.
GENERAL BACKGROUNDIns tead  of resor t ing  to ass ign ing  e i ther  ones ingle defau l t  ca tegory  (say, noun) to the UNK(the s ing le -category  approach),  or allopen-c lass  lex ica l  ca tegor ies  (thea l l - ca tegor ies  approach) ,  we t r ied to deve lopan in termediate  solution, the some-categor iesapproach.
The cha l lenge  is to f ind out if theform of a unknown word, in f lec ted  or net, canconvey cruc ia l  categor ia l  in format ion.
Even ifthe at tempt  at on- l ine de fau l t ing  (usingend ings  in fo rmat ion  and suf f ix -s t r ipp ing)  isincapab le  of d i sambiguat ing  categor ia l ly ,  at\].east par t ia l  d i sambiguat ion  may be possible,leav ing  the sys tem wi th  a min imum of acceptab leguesses  of a category  p lus  the assoc ia tedfeature -va lue  in fo rmat ion  for the word  invo lved(noun and verb, for instance).3.2.
ON-LINE DEFAULTING IN METAL:PAST AND PRESENT3.2.1.
SINGLE-CATEGORY DEFAULTINGThe ear l ie r  on- l ine  de fau l t ing  approachcons is ted  of ca l l ing  a category -guess ingfunct ion  in the test part  of threeUNK- rewr i t ing  morphosyntaet ic  rules, viz.
NO-> UNK, ADJ  -> UNK, and VB -> UNK.
Thecategory -guess ing  funct ion took the form ofthe unknown word  as input, and re turned  e i therNO, ADJ, VB, or NIL, depend ing  on whether  itcou ld  pred ic t  the unknown to be a noun,ad jec t ive  or verb  respect ive ly  (using l ists ofder ivat iona l  and in f lec t iona l  suf f ixes  in theprocess) .
If the guess -cat  funct ion  returnedNIL, the word  was assumed to be a noun (thecatcha l l  defaul t ) .
The funct ion app l ied  as imp l i f ied  r ight - to - le f t  morpho log ica l  ana lys isa lgor i thm, t ry ing  to f ind an acceptab le  pa i r  ofa der ivat iona l  and an in f lec t iona l  suf f ix  for apar t i cu la r  category.
This approach  has a fewshortcomings:  (i) It is a s ing le -categoryde fau l t ing  scheme: the guess -cat  funct ion onlyreturns  one guess, and leaves it at that.Furthermore,  the guess ing  process  wi l l  not beusefu l  for languages wi th  a h igh  degree ofcategor ia l  ambiguity .
(2) Guess-cat  onlyreturns  the categor ia l  in fo rmat ion  and nospec i f i c  feature -va lue  informat ion,  whereas  theform of the unknown word  may reveal  much morespec i f i c  feature -va lue  in format ion.
(3) Theparser  wi l l  a lways try the three UNK- rewr i t lngrules (and call the guess -cat  funct ion at leastthree t imes wi th  the same str ing),  though onlyone of the three rules can succeed.
Moreover,  aposs ib ly  morpho log ica l ly  complex  word  isrewr i t ten  into a h igher - leve l  node wi thout  thegrammar  knowing  about its component  morphemes.3.2.2.
SOME-CATEGORIES DEFAULTINGUnfor tunate ly ,  the ENDINGS-TABLES used ino f f - l ine  de fau l t ing  cou ld  not be used in theiro r ig ina l  fo rm for on- l ine  defau l t ing.
F i rst  ofall, they  are too unspec i f i c  to pred ic t  thecategory  of the word, and secondly,  they relyon the input word  be ing  a canonica l  (citation)form and conta in  no in fo rmat ion  aboutin f lec t iona l  morpho logy.
Hence, a un ique newtable had  to be const ructed  that  conta ins  notonly end ings  of s tem forms, but alsoin f lec t iona l  suf f ixes  that a l low one tod i sambiguate  an unknown word.
Moreover,mu l t ip le  guesses  (two at most) are al lowed.The tab le  returns  one or more categor ies  p lusother  feature in format ion.
(defvar *DEF-DUTCH-ON-LINE-ENDINGS*(def-aort-endings-table'(o..("itGit" (NST (CAN "*") (ALO "*") (GD F)(CL S-0 P-EN) (DH DE))))("liJks" (AST ((CAN "*") (ALO "*")(CL P -0  P -E ) ) ) )("ieel" ((NST ((CAN "*") (ALO "*") (GD N)(CL S-0) (DH HIT) ) )(AST ( (CAN "*") (ALO "*")(CL S-0) (DG SU)))))("dt" (VST ((CAN "-on") (ALO "t") (CL PR-T))(V -F~X(0 ((CAN t) (ALO T) (CL PR-T)?
.
.  )
) ) ) ).
.
. )
) )The a lgor i thm t r ies  to match  the unknown withthe end ings  in the table, g radua l ly  s t r ipp ingoff  potent ia l  in f lec t iona l  suf f ixes (asre t r ieved  from the lexicon).
Thed i sambiguat ing  potent ia l  of these  suf f ixes  isa lso used  in this process .
If, for example, aword  ends in an ad jec t ive  morpheme and inthe end ings - tab le  both  noun and ad jec t ive  arel i s ted as poss ib le  categor ies  for the st r ingw i thout  the morpheme,  only the AST categorywil l  be defaul ted.
If the who le  s t r ip -and-match306- 2 -process  is unsuccess fu l ,  the catch-a l l  defau l tremains  the noun, wh ich  gets all poss ib leva lues  for its features  ((NU SG PL) (GD M F N)...).
Ins tead  of invok ing  category  guess ingin the grammar  rules, we dec ided  to act ivatethe guess ing  process  r ight af ter  thele f t - to - r ight  fu l l - f l edged morpho log ica lana lys i s  has re turned  an UNK analysis .
Theguess ing  process  wi l l  y ie ld  the r ight lexicalca tegor ies  and put these into the chart.
Thismeans that (I) the UNK category  d i sappears  as a" lex ica l"  ca tegory  and (2) all componentmorphemes  of a morpho log ica l ly  complex  unknownword  are added to the chart with all thei rassoc ia ted  in format ion.
The l ingu is t -devo lopercont ro ls  the guess ing  process  through themodu lar ly  access ib le  on- l ine de fau l t ing  table.3.3.
~q~OBLEMS WITH ON-L INE  DEFAULT INGThe very nature  of the de fau l t ing  i tse l fimpl ies  that it is not er ror - f ree.
Stil l, inmany cases the number  of except ions  to cer ta inend ing  st r ings  was rather  l imited, and most lythey cou ld  be accounted  for by inc lud ing  a morespec i f i c  (that is, a longer) end ing  s t r ing  inthe table.
In some cases, such a so lut ion  wasnot feasible,  and the except ions  had to beentered  into the d ic t ionary .4.
FURT}~.~R RESEARCHAs far as fur ther  research  into o f f - l inede fau l t ing  is concerned,  we wi l l  be look ing atthe potent ia l  of the approach  for de fau l t ingt rans fer  lex icon  ent r ies  (and not onlymono l ingua l  ones).
For  instance, we couldsuggest  ~ t rans la t ion  for a f f ixed words, i fthei r  heads  are a l ready  in the t rans ferd ic t ionary .
An example  can make c lear  what thismeans.
Suppose  the t rans fer  d ic t ionary  fort rans la t ion  f rom Dutch to F rench  conta ins  anent ry  ge lukk ig  -> heureux  (happy).
Suppose nowthat we want  to de fau l t  the word  ONgelukk ig(UNhappy) in the Dutch mono l ingua l  d ic t ionary .If we knew about a cor respondence  between Dutchon- and a F rench  ad jec t lve -der iv ing  pre f ix  wi ththe same mean ing  (say, mal-), we could  f irstdefau l t  mono l ingua l  Dutch onge lukk ig  on thebas is  of gelukkig,  then look at the t rans ferfor ge lukk ig  {heureux), and defaul t  themono l ingua l  F rench  malheureux,  as wel l  as thet rans fer  ent ry  onge lukk ig  -> malheureux.
Ofcourse, such an approach  re l ies  heav i ly  onun ique  mappings  of phenomena across  languages,wh ich  wi l l  rare ly  be the case.
For  on-, forinstance,  onju is t  ( incorrect) does notcor respond to *malcorrect ,  but incorrect .Even in these cases, a t rans la t ion  cou ld  besuggested,  poss ib ly  accompan ied  by a l te rnat ivepre f ixes  of the target  language wi th  the samemeaning.As  to on- l ine defaul t ing,  the currentapproach  is more or less stable for Dutch andFrench, but we are st i l l  re f in ing  thes t r ip -and-match  a lgor i thm for opt imal  results.For  the other  languages  in the set of METALl anguage-pa i rs  (German, Engl ish,  Spanish),  wewi l l  look into the use fu lness  and thefeas ib i l i ty  of some-categor ies  on- l inedefaul t ing,  and see if in teres t ing  tab les  canbe const ructed  for these languages  as well.- 3 -NOTES(I) We are great ly  indebted  to Michael  Thum forhis carefu l  documentat ion  of the DEFAULTERsystem.
(2) See e.g.
Whi te  1987, Bennet t  & S loeum 1988,Thurmai r  1989 or Adr iaens  & Caeyers  1990 forfull  d i scuss ions  of the d i f fe rent  aspects  ofthe METAL  system.
(3) For  a full account  of the morpho log ica lprocess  in METAL, see Loomis  \]988.
(4) A typ ica l  example  of de fau l t -over r id ing  forDutch verbs is the fo l lowing.
If e.g.
gaan(to go) has as one of its morpho log ica lcharacter i s t i cs  that its past par t i c ip le  isformed with ge- (gegaan; the feature CL willhave as one of its va lues  PP-GE), thisin fo rmat ion  must be over r idden  for the re latedverb  vergaan (past par t i c ip le  is vergaan - notgevergaan, which means  CL must be PP-0).These regu lar i t ies  are s tored in the*DEF-DUTCH-VST-CL-CONV*  table (def ining thenecessary  morpho log ica l  c lass  convers ions  forpast  par t i c ip les ) .REFERENCESAdr ia~ns,  G. & H. CaeyQrs  (1990) - l~t automa-t isch ver taa lsys teem METAL: van onderzoek totcommerc iee l  produkt .
To appear  in Informatie,October  1990.Bennett ,  W.S.
& J.
S !oeum (1988) - The LRCMach ine  Trans la t ion  System.
In S locum 1988,111-134.Boguraev,  B.
& T. Br i seoe  (ads) (1989) -Computat iona l  Lex icography  for Natura l  LanguageProcess ing.
Longman, London.Lemmens, M. (1988) - A Cr i t ica l  S tudy  of  theDefau l te rs  in the Be lg ian  Meta l -system,  and aDes ign of  a Morpho log ica l ly  Gu ided CategoryGuesser.
Master ' s  Thes is  in Germanic  Phi lology,Leuven 1988 (written in Dutch).Loomls,  T. (1988) - Morpho log ica l  ana lys is  inMETAL.
Internal  documentat ion  wr i t ten  atS iemens AG, K Systeme AP 323, Munich.Nebendahl ,  D. (ed) (1989) - Exper tensysteme.Tell  2: E r fahrungen aus der Praxis.
(Engineer ing und Kommunikat ion . )
S iemens AG,M~nchen.Nirenbnrg,  S. (ed) (1987) Mach ineTranslat ion.
Theoret ica l  and Methodo logfca lIssues.
(Studies in Natura l  LanguageProcess ing. )
Can~r idge  Un ivers i ty  Press,Cambr idge  UK.Nirenburg,  S. (1989) - Lex icons  for ComputerP rograms and Lex icons  for  People.
CMU-CMTPaper.Sloc~Im, J.
(ed) (1988) - Mach ine  Trans lat ionSystems.
Studies  in Natura l  LanguageProcess ing.
(Revised re issue of a specialissue of Computat iona l  L ingu is t i cs  vol.
II(1985), nos.
1-3.)
Cambr idge  Univers i tyPress, Cambr idge  UK.Thum, M. (1986) - Documentat ion  of  the METALDEFAULTER system.
In terna l  documentat ionwr i t ten  at the Computer  Gese l l schaf t  KonstanzGmbH.Thurmair ,  G. (1989) - Au fgabentyp  L inguist ik :P ro jekt  MEI~L.
In Nebendahl  1989, 169-195.White,  J. S. (1987) - l~e Research  Env i ronmentin the METAL  Project .
In N i renburg  1987,225--246.Zernik, U.
(ed) (1989) - Proceed ings  of  theF i rst  In ternat iona l  Lex ica l  Acqu is i t ionWorkshop (Detroit, Michigan,  August  21).3 0 7
