"The first million is hardest to get": Building a LargeTagged Corpus as Automatically as PossibleGunnel K~l/grenUniversity of StockholmDepartment ofComputational LinguisticsS-106 91 StockholmSwedengunnel@com.qz.seSummary: The paper describes a recentlystarted project in Sweden.
The goal of theproject is to produce acorpus of (at least) onemillion words of running text from differentgenres, where all words are classified for wordclass and for a set of morpho- syntactic prop-erties.
A set of methods and tools for auto-mating the process are being developed andwill be presented, and problems and somesolutions in connection with e.g.
homographydisambiguation will be discussed.Key words: corpus work, tagging, parsing,probabilistic methods0.
This paper basically consists of three parts:1. a brief sketch of a newly started corpusproject, 2. a discussion of the problems thatthis and similar projects will run into as wellas of the expected results and possible furtherdevelopments, and 3. a presentation and de-monstration of implemented and runningprograms that are used on the corpus mate-rial.An important aspect of presenting a pro-ject of the size of this one at an early stage isour need for feedback.
We realize clearly thatwe are heading straight for some grandiosemistakes that will cost us time, effort, andheadaches, but the Coling participants, bysharing their experience with us, might saveus from at least some of the mistakes.1.
The project o be described in this paperstarted in the autumn of 1989.
It is carried outin cooperation between the departments ofLinguistics at the universities of Stockholm(Dr. Gunnel Kiillgren) and Ume/t (ProfessorEva Ejerhed), and it is supported by theSwedish Research Council for the Humani-ties and the Swedish National Board for Tech-nical Development.As a substantial part of the project, we willbuild up a large corpus of written Swedish.
By'large', we mean at least 1 million words for astart, with an explicit aim of collecting consid-erably more.
The corpus will, as far aspossible, be composed of texts from variousgenres in a way that will match the principlesof the Brown and LOB corpora (cf.
Francis &Kuc'era 1982, Garside, Leech & Sampson1987).
We will however make one importantchange of those principles; rather than cuttingthe text samples at the first sentence boundaryafter 2,000 words, we will strive for texts orsubparts of texts that form a coherent whole.The construction ofa large corpus is, how-ever, not a goal in itself.
The corpus is meantto function as a test-bench and a basis forcomparison i the development and testing ofvarious models for analysis.
In order to havethis function, the corpus must be tagged withat least the word-class, the flectional form,and the lemma form of each word.
This kindof tagging is, with some exceptions, rathertheory-neutral and uncontroversial, but it hasto be done correctly and unambiguously.
Tomanage that, without an overwhelmingamount of manual labor, we have to developdifferent kinds of methods and tools, and alsoto find and use methods and tools developedby other researchers.
Once such a million-word corpus exists, proof-read and cross-checked for consistency, it will form an in-400 Ivaluable basis for many kinds of linguisticinvestigations, but the methods developedand refined in building the corpus will bequite as important as an output, as they can beused for building the even larger corpora thatwill be necessary for certain kinds of large?scale linguistic analysis.
We hope to be ableto take a considerable step towards a fullyautomatized tagging of unrestricted text, but.. as noted in the heading and as many multi-millionaires have also noted - the first millionis the hardest to get.Along with the methods for building thecorpus, we will also develop a set of simpletools for using it: programs for search ondifferent levels, for excerption and building ofconcordances, for sorting according to differ-ent criteria, and, not least important, for theaddition of the user's own tags in a stan-dardized and compatible format.
The result-ing corpus and the 'tool-kit' for using it will bemade available to other researchers in a tor-~nat suitable for different kinds of personalcomputers?
This will, hopefully, facilitate and~hereby increase the research on modernwritten Swedish.We must however admit hat we do not doIhis out of an unselfish concern for others.
Onthe contrary our original impetus was a vmyselfish need to be able to test and develop ourown models and ideas on a large scale.
This iswhere the fun really starts, but as most of thisi:s so far not implemented, or only to a smalldegree, I will not say anything more about ithere, but will return briefly to some of it in thesection about expected problems and ex-pected results.2.
To build a large corpus in a short time,we will have to rely almost entirely on mate-r.ial that is computer-readable from the begin--~dng, i.e.
mostly material that is typeset oncomputers.
This will bring us into a jungle ofnon-linguistic but time-consuming problems:getting access to data tapes, loading them tooar own computers, converting betweendifferent formats and different character con-w~ntions, deciding which typographic featurescan be discarded and which contain informaotion that nmst be kept, deciding how to treatpictures, figures, and diagrams, etc.On top of this, we have the questions ofcoverage and representativity.
If we could justtake any kind of computer readable text untilwe get a large enough corpus everythingwould be so much easier, but now we have tofind texts from many different genres and,consequently, from many different sources.This will multiply problems of the type men-tioned in the preceding paragraph, but it willalso force us to cope with copyright restric-tions.
Our wish to cover different kinds of textgenres, including fiction, in combination withour wish to have texts that are coherentwholes and to make all the tagged texts gener-ally available for research purposes, will herebring us in conflict with copyright regulations.If necessm3,, we will change the proportionsbetween different genres rather than haveparts of the corpus not generally available.The problems ketched in the last twoparagraphs are certainly of importance but Iwill not discuss them here.
Rather, I will de-scribe some of the truly linguistic matters wehave to deal with and, in the last section,proceed to show possible solutions to some ofthem.The best basis for the kind of tagging wewant to do is a computerized lexicon thatcovers as much as possible of the vocabularyof unrestricted text, and that gives as much aspossible of the morpho-syntactic informationwe want to represent.
In this respect, we areextremely ucky in that we can have access tothree different computerized lexica designedfor analysis of Swedish word forms.
By thekind permission of the respective lexiconbuilders, we can test their models and pick theone that suits our special purposes best.
Thethree lexica are the TWOL:lexicon from theUniversity of Helsinki (Karlsson forthcom-ing), the lexicon from Chalmers University ofTechnology, Gothenburg, that was originallydesigned for speech synthesis (Hedelin et al1989), and the morphological analyzerdeveloped within the LPS-project at the uni-versity of Gothenburg (S~gvall 1989).This possibility of lexicon look up bringsthe project a great leap forward, but, alas, withmuch left to be done.
According to statistics(All6n 1970, p. xxv), almost 65% of the wordtokens in Swedish texts are ambiguous.
(The2 401corresponding fi ures for English and Finnishare 45% and 15%, respectively.
Cf.
DeRose1988, Karlsson forthcoming.
)The large figurefor Swedish may seem astonishing, but a care-ful manual check of the output from the lookup of 2,000 running words in the HelsinkiTWOL-lexicon showed that at least 55 % of allwords were ambiguous in any way, with anaverage of 2.6 readings of each ambiguousword.Ambiguities can be between lemmas(word types) from different word classes,different lemmas within the same word class,and different inflectional forms within thesame lemma.
A typical example would be theword 'glada' that can either be a noun, thename of a bird, or an adjective, meaning'happy'.
As an adjective, the word is many-ways ambiguous between a singular definitereading that can be either neuter or commongender, and a plural reading that can be de-finite or indefinite and in either case belongto either gender.
Ambiguity between differ-ent lemmas within the same word class is aless common type.
It can be seen in a word(token) like 'svans' that can either mean 'tail'or be the genitive form of 'swan'.
We have notcounted as ambiguities polysemous wordswith identical inflectional pattern, like'krona', which is either 'a crown' or theSwedish currency unit.
All these ambiguitieshave to be sorted out in the disambiguationprocess.In this disambiguation, wewill mainly userobust methods that for every ambiguous sit-uation will come up with a best possible solu-tion.
(Cf.
K~illgren 1984a,b,1990, Brodda1983.)
This will partly be based on anotherimportant step in the process, namely the con-struction of constituents, in particular nounphrases and prepositional phrases (Church1988, Kfillgren 1984c), and partly on a moregeneral algorithm that for pairs or longersequences oftags calculates the relative prob-ability of alternative tag assignments.
Theprinciples behind such algorithms are known,but they have never been tried on Swedishmaterial (DeRose 1988, Marshall 1987, Eeg-Olofsson 1985).An indispensable step in the disambigua-tion process is the assignment ofclause boun-daries, which presupposes established con-stituents at the same time as it forms an im-portant basis for disambiguating chains oftags.
Methods for this are being tested out onSwedish material (Ejerhed 1989).
Given this,it might be possible to check the valency struc-ture of predicates, todecide subject and directobject and, more difficult, to decide the roleof prepositional phrases in relation to thefinite verb.In all the above steps, we will use robustmethods that can give a straightforward, 'flat'analysis of the surface sentences.
The finaloutput will be carefully proofread and canthen function as a corpus for empirical re-search, a test-bench for theoretical linguists'models, and a training material in thedevelopment of stochastic methods of analy-sis (cf.
K/illgren 1988).3.
Several of the programs needed in the pro-ject already exist, at least as running proto-types, and can be demonstrated.
Among thoseare a system for converting from the explicittags of the TWOL- lexicon to our more con-densed and sometimes different ags, as wellas from our condensed tags to an explicittranscription of them.
(Our tags sometimeshave a finer subclassification than is at presentthe case with the TWOL-tags.)
In connectionwith this, we are willing to discuss our set oftags, which, by necessity, is a compromisebetween what is wanted and what can beachieved with a reasonable amount of effort.Our technique of using temporary, ambigu-ous tags to postpone decisions in non-deter-ministic situations will also be discussed.Below are the suggested tags of the word'hoppa' ('to jump' or 'jump!')
given as anexample.Output from TWOL-lexicon:hoppa "V IMWINF"Condensed temporary tag:Vl la < hoppa >where: V = finite verb, 1 = lexicalverb(i.e.
not copula, modal, or auxiliary),1 = imperative or infinitive, a = ac-tive, belonging to the lemma hoppa402 3Data driven disambiguation procedurescan then be applied.
The disambiguation willbe triggered and governed by the '1', in thiscase directed to look for, e.g., a precedingauxiliary verb or infinitive marker signallinginfinitive as opposed to the possible syntacticenvironments of imperatives.
Assuming thatthe word appears in a context where it func-tions as an infinitive, the output will be'Vlia < hoppa > 'else 'Vlma < hoppa > ', buteven before this decision is reached, the infor-mation that the word is not in any of the othertenses can be used by other disambiguationprocedures.For the disambiguation, we have startedon a first prototype of a 'learning' program,i.e.
the program can be trained to make a bestpossible choice in different situations, wherethe situations are sequences of ambiguoustags (Karlgren 1989).
It is a Prolog implemen-tation of principles presented in Kiillgren(1984b).For :further analysis of the corpus we havea program that identifies subject and directand indirect object in simple and complexsentences.
It is based on an algorithm that hasbeen tested manually (Kiillgren 1987) withgood results, and has now been implementedas an expert system with a set of if...then-rules(Magnberg 1990).
The program presupposesthat word class disambiguation, constituentconstruction, and clause boundary identifica-tion has been carried out.
It will be demon-strated at Coling.To facilitate the use of the corpus also fornon-computational linguists, we plan tosupply the completed corpus with a packet oftools.
As an example of such tools, a versionof the Beta system that is especially designedfor making excerptions and concordances onpersonal computers will be demonstrated(Brodda 1990a, b).REFERENCESAIl6n, S. 1970.
Nusvensk frekvensordbok baserad p/itidningstext 1.Almqvist & Wiksell, Stockholm.Brodda, B.
1983.
An experiment with heuristic parsingof Swedish.
Proceedings of the First Conference ofthe European Chapter of the ACL, Pisa.Brodda, B.
1990a.
Cbrpus Work with PCBeta: a Presen-tation.
In this volume.Brodda, B.
1990b.
Corpus Work with PC Beta.
Instituteof Linguistics, University of Stockholm.Church, K.W.
1988.
A stochastic parts program andnoun phrase parser for unrestricted text.
Proceed-ing~ of the Second Conference on Applied NaturalLanguage Processin& ACL, Austin, Texas.DeRose, S.J.
1988.
Grammatical category disambigua-tion by statistical optimization.
Computational Lin-guistics Voi.
14:i.Eeg-Olofsson, M. 1985.
A probability modcl for comoputer aided word class determination.
ALL C Jour-nal 5:1&2.Ejerhed, E. 1989.
A Swedish clause grammar and itsimplementation.
In: R~gnvaldsson, E. & Pind, J.(eds.
), Papers from the Seventh Scandinavian Con?ference of Computati(mal Linguistics.
Reykjavik.Francis, W.N.
& H. Kuc'era.
1982.
Fre~tency analysisof English usage: lexicon and grammar.
HoughtonMifflin.Garsidc, R., G. Leech & G. Sampson (eds.).
1987.
TheCbmputational Analysis of English.
Longman.Hedelin, P., A. Jonsson & P. Lindblad.
1989.
Svensktuttalslexikon, Del I och II.
Teknisk rappor~ nr.
4,Institutionen f6r Informationsteori, Chalmers Uni-versity of Technology, Gothenburg.Kfiligren, G. 1984a.
HP-systemet som genv/ig rid syntak-tisk m/irkning av texter.
Svenskans besknvning 14,Lund.Kiillgren, G. 1984b.
HP ?
A heuristic finite state parserbased on morphology.
De nordiska datalingvistikda-garna 1983, Uppsala.K~llgren, G. 1984c.Automatisk excerpering avsubstantivur lOpande text.
Eft m6fligt hjiilpmedel rid da-toriserad indexedng?
Institutet f6r R/ittsinformatik,Stockholm.Kiillgren, G. 1987.
What Good is Syntactic Informationin the Lexicon of a Syntactic Parser?
In NordiskeDatalingvistikdage 1987, Lambda no.
7, Copen-hagen University 1988.4 403Kiillgrcn, G. 1987.
What Good is Syntactic Informationin the Lexicon of a Syntactic Parser?
In NordiskeDatalingvistikdage 1987, Lambda no.
7, Copen-hagen University 1988.Kiillgren, G. 1988.
Linguistic Theory and Large-ScaleNatural Language Processing.
In: ELS Conferenceon Natural Language Applications, IBM Norway,Oslo 1988.K/illgren, G. 1990.
Making maximal use of morphologyin large-scale parsing.
Institute of Linguistics, Stock-holm University.
Submitted for publication.Karlgren, J.
1989.
Nagelfar - Statistically BasedGrammatical Category Disambiguation.
I stitute ofLinguistics, Stockholm University.Karlsson, F. (forthcoming).
A Comprehensive Morpho-logical Analyzer for Swedish.
Manuscript, Depart-ment of General Linguistics, University of Helsinki.Magnberg, S. 1990.
A Rule-Based System for IdentifyingSentence Sub/ects in Swedish.
Project Report.
Insti-tute of Linguistics, Stockholm University.Marshall, I.
1987.
Tag selection using probabilisticmethods.
In: Garside, R., G. Leech & G.
Sampson(eds.
), 1987.S~tgvall Hein, A.
1989.
Lemmatizing the definitions ofSvensk Ordbok by morphological nd syntacticanalysis.
A pilot study.
In: R6gnvaldsson, E. & Pind,J.
(eds.
), Papers from the Seventh ScandinavianConference of Computational Linguistics.
Reyk-javik.404 5
