Ambiguity resolution and the retrieval of idioms:two approaches.Erik-Jan van der Linden Wessel KraaijInst i tute for  Language Techno logy  and A IT i lburg Un ivers i tyPO box 901535000 LE  T i lburgThe Nether landsE-mai l :  vd l inden@kub.n lAbstractWhen an idiomatic expression is encountered uringnatural anguage processing, the ambiguity between itsidiomatic ~md non-idiomatic meaning has to be resolved.Rather than including both meanings in further process-ing, a conventionality-principle could be applied.
Thisresults in best-first processing of the idiomatic analysis.Two models are discussed fot the lexical representation fidioms.
One extends the notion continuation class fromtwo-level morphology, the other is a localist, connec-tionist model.
The connectionist model has an importantadvantage over the continuation class model: the conven-tionality principle follows naturally from the architectureof the conneetionist model.Keywords: idiom processing, ambiguity resulution, two-level morphology, conneetionism.1 IntroductionIn this paper we discuss the resolution of the ambiguitybetween the non-idiomatic and the idiomatic reading of aphrase that is possibly idiomatic.
A choice between thesereadings can be made using various kinds of linguisticinformation, but we claim that it can be made on the basisof the mere fact that one of the analyses is idiomatic, andthat this choice does not have to be stipulated explicitly,but follows naturally from the architecture of the lexiconand the retrieval process, if an appropriate model of thelexicon is used.In section (2), we firstly state our approach to naturallanguage processing (NLP) in general.
Next (3), wedocument he claim that idioms should be store'l inthe lexicon as holistic lexical units, and discuss theprocessing of idioms (4).
Then we present wo modelsfor the lexical representation a d retrieval of idioms: oneextends the notion continuation class of the two-levelmodel (Koskenniemi 1983) (5); the other is a simplelocalist connectionist model (6).In this paper we limit ourselves to aspects relevant forour 'lexical' approach.
We will not discuss such issuesas semantic decomposability (Gibbs and Nayak 1989) ofidioms (but see van der Linden 1989, for a model ofincremental syntactic/semantic processing of idioms inCategorial Grammar, and a more elaborate discussion ofthe issues mentioned in (3.1)).2 Generalapproach to NLPIn case of ambiguity, the NL processor has to choosebetween a number of possible analyses.
In order todetermine which one is most likely, all analyses canbe examined using a breadth-first or depth-first strategy.However, this results in a time and space consuming pro-cess.
Incremental best-first examination of 'promising'analyses eems more appropriate, and seems to be a prop-erty of human language processing (cf.
Thibadeau, Justand Carpenter 1982).
However, this approach leaves uswith the question what criteria should be applied to selectone of the analyses for further examination.
In this paperwe examine one aspect of this general question, namelythe choice between an idiomatic and a non-idiomaticanalysis.3 Idioms and the lexicon3.1 LinguisticsWithin the literature 'Traditional wisdom dictates that anidiom is by definition aconstituent orseries of constituentswhere interpretation is not a compositional function of theinterpretation f its parts.'
(G~dar et al 1985, p 327).
1Rather than giving a definition of idioms that states whatthe meaning of an idiom isn't, we prefer a definition thatstates what the meaning is (van tier Linden 1989).Idioms are multi-lexemic expressions, themeaning of which is a property of the wholeexpression.1cf.
Wood (1986): an idiom is 'wholly non-compositional imeaning'.1 245Some attempts have, however, been made to assign themeaning of an idiom to the parts of the idiom.
These canroughly be divided in two:- assignment of the idiomatic meaning of the expressionto one of the parts of the idiom, and no meaning to theother part (Ruhl, cited in Wood 1986).
In the case ofkick the bucket, the meaning die is assigned to kick, andno meaning to the other part.
This raises the questionhowever, why one cannot say Pat rested the bucket omean Pat rested (Wasow et al 1983).- assignment of idiomatic interpretations to all parts.Compositional combination of these meanings results inan idiomatic meaning for the whole expression (Gazdaret al 1985).
This analysis has a number of problems.G~dar et al use partial functions to avoid combinationof an idiomatic functor with a non-idiomatic argument,but do not explain how to avoid combination of a non-idiomatic functor with an idiomatic argument.
In our viewthis can only be solved by introducing partial arguments,to our knowledge a non-existing notion, or by acceptingthat all functors are partial, which is not common inlinguistics.We conclude that the meaning of an idiom is a propertyof the whole expression, and should be represented in thelexicon.
23.2 PsycholinguisticsThe same observation arises from psycholinguistic re-search.
Idioms are stored and accessed as lexical items,not from some special list that is distinct from the lexicon 3(Swinney and Cutler 1979).
Furthermore, idioms arestored as holistic entries in the mental exicon (Swinneyand Cutler 1979; 'Lancker and Canter 1980; Lancker,Canter and Terbeek 1981; cf.
the notion 'configuration'in Cacciari and Tabossi 1988).4 Processing idiomsPhrases consisting of idioms can in most cases be in-terpreted non-idiomatically as well.
a It has howeverfrequently been observed that very rarely an idiomaticphrase should in fact be interpreted non-idiomatically(Koller 1977, p. 13; Chafe 1968, p. 123; Gross 1984,p.
278; Swinney 1981, p. 208).
Also, psycholin-guistic research indicates that in case of an ambiguity,there is clear preference for the idiomatic reading (Gibbs1980; Schweigert and Moates 1988).
We will refer tothe fact that phrases hould be interpreted according tothe idiomatic, non-compositional, lexical, conventional,meaning, as the 'conventionality' principle.
5 If thisprinciple could be modeled in an appropriate way, this2Although other opinions exist (Pesetsky 1985).gAs has been defended by Bobrow and Bell (1973).4Exccptions are idioms that contain words that occur in idioms only(spin and span, queer the pitch), and ungrammatical idioms (trip thelight fantastic).SThe same can be observed for compounds: these are not interpretedcompositionally, but according to the lexical, conventional meaning(Swinney 198 |).would be of considerable help in dealing with idioms:as soon as the idiom has been identified, the ambiguitycan be resolved and 'higher' processes do not have toexamine the various analyses.There is one more issue, that requires ome consideration:when can and does an incremental processor start lookingfor idioms?
From psycholinguistic research it appearsthat idioms are not activated when the 'first' (content)word is encountered (Swinney and Cutler 1979).
Thereis, from the computational point of view, no need to start'looking' for idioms, when only the first word has beenfound 6: that would result in increase of the processingload at higher levels.Stock  In Stock's (1989) approach to ambiguity resolu-tion, firstly, the idiomatic and the non-idiomatic analysisare processed inparallel.
An external scheduling functiongives priority to one of these analyses.
Secondly, Stockstarts looking for idioms when the 'first' word has beenencountered.
As we have stated, both increase the loadon higher processes.5 An extension of the notioncontinuation classLex ica i  representat ion  Lexical entries in two-levelmorphology are represented in a trie structure, whichenables incremental lookup of strings.
A lexical entryconsists of a lexical representation, linguistic" informa-tion, and a so-called continuation class, which is a listof sublexicons "the members of which may follow"(Koskenniemi 1983, p. 29) the lexical entry.
In thecontinuation class of an adjective, one could for instancefind a reference tO a sublexicon containing comparativeendings (ibid.
p. 57).
An obvious extension is toapply this notion beyond the boundaries of the word.
Acontinuation class of an entry A could contain referencesto the entries that form an idiom with A.
An example is(la) (Note that we use a graphemic ode for the lexicalrepresentations).
(1)(a)k-i-c-k*---b-u-c-k-e-t*h-a-b-i-t*\e-e-l-s*6One might argue that words that only occur in idioms could activatethe idioms when encountered as 'first' word.
There is however onlypsyeholinguistic evidence that this occurs in a highly semanticallydetermined contexts (Cacciari and Tabossi 1988).246 2(b)DO read a le t te rIF word  has been  found THENIF th is  word  forms an id iomwi th  prev ious  word(s)THEN make id iom in fo rmat ionava i lab le  to syn /sem processELSE make word  in fo rmat ionava i lab le  to syn /sem processUNT IL  no more  le t te rs  in input.Algorithm A simple algorithm is used to find idioms (in(lb) the relevant fragment of the algorithm is representedin pseudocode).
The result of the application of thealgorithm is that linguistic inlbrmation associated withlhe idioms is supplied to the syntactic/semantic processor.The linguistic information includes the precise lorm oflhe idiom, the possibilities for modification etc.
(cf.
vantier Linden 1989).A toy implementation f the lexicon structure and thezdgorithm has been made in C.6 A connectionist model~l'he second model we present here for the lexieal rep-resentation and retrieval of idioms is an extension of asimple localist comlectionist model for the resolution oflcxic~d ambiguity (Cottrell 1988 7).
The model (2) con-sists of four levels.
Units at the lowest level representthe smallest units of form.
These units activate units onthe level that represents syntactic discriminations, whichin turn activate units on the semantic level.
The semanticfeatures activate relational nodes in the semantic network.Within levels, inhibitory links may occur; between levelsexcitatory links may exist.
However, there are no innhibitory links within the semantic network.The meaning of idioms is represented as all other rela-tional nodes in the semantic network.
On the level ofsemantic features, the idiom is represented by a unit thathas a gate function similar to so-called SIGMA-PI units(Rumelhart and McClelland 1986, p. 73): in order forsuch a unit A to receive activation, all units excitating Abottom-up should be active.
If one of the units connectedto a unit A is not active, A does not receive activation.Thus when lhe first word of an idiom is encountered, theidiom is not activated, because the other word(s) is (are)not active.
However, once all relevant lexemes havebeen encountered in the input, it becomes active.
Notethat an external syntactic module excitates one of thenodes in case of syntactic ambiguity.
Since there is morethan one syntactic unit activating the idiom, the overallactivation of the idiom becomes higher than competingr~odes representing non-idiomatic meanings.
Or, to put itdifferently, the idiom represents the simplest hypothesisthat accounts for the meaning of the lexemes in the input.7For all introduction to conncclionist models, see Rumclhart a.dMcClelland (1986); for a critical evaluation see Fodor and Phylyshyn0988).The idiom is the strongest competitor, and inhibits thenon-idiomatic readings.Without need for feedback from outside the model, theconventionality principle is thus modeled as a naturalconsequence of the architecture of the model.
The con-nectionist model has been implemented in C with the useof the Rochester Connectionist Simulator (Goddard et al1989).
In the appendix we give a description of technicaldetails of this implementation.7 Concluding remarksAmbiguity in the case of idiomatic phrases can be resolvedon the basis of the conventionality principle.
Whencompared to strategies as used in Stock (1989), bothmodels presented here have the advantage that they don'tprocess idioms until all relevant lexical material hasbeen encountered in the input and operate in a best-firstfashion.
Therefore they contribute to the efficiency of theparsing process.
The conneetionist model has one furtheradvantage: the conventionality principle results naturallyfrom the architecture of the model, and does not haveto be stipulated explicitely.
The obvious disadvantageof this model is the necessity for parallel hardware forrealistic implementations.
Future research will includethe true integration with a syntactic module.
Then, it willalso be able to take the precise syntactic form of idiomaticphrases into account.AcknowledgementsThe authors would like to thank Walter Daelemans andthe visitors of the Colloquium "Computer and Lexicon"12 & 13 Oct, 1989, Utrecht for their useful comments.Wietske Sijtsma commented on English grammaticalityand style.3 247ReferencesBobrow, S. and Bell, S. 1973.
On catching on to idiomaticexpressions.
Memory and Cognition 3,343-346.Cacciari, C. and Tabossi, E 1988.
The comprehen-sion of Idioms.
Journal of Memory and Language, 27,668-683.Chafe, W. 1968.
Idiomaticity as an anomaly in theChomskyan Paradigm.
Foundations ofLanguage 4,109-127.Cottrell, G. 1989 A model of lexic~d access of ambiguouswords.
In: Small, S., Cottrel, G., and Tanenhaus, M.,1988.
Lexical ambiguity resolution.
San Mateo: Kauf-mann.Fodor, J. and Pylyshyn, Z.
1988.
Connectionism andcognitive architecture: A critical analysis.
Cognition,1988, 1-2, p. 3- 70Gazdar, G., Klein, E., Pullum, G. and Sag, I.
1985Generalized Phrase Structure Grammar.
Basil Black-well, Oxford.Gibbs, R., 1980.
Spilling the beans on understandingand memory for idioms in conversation.
Memory andCognition 8, 149-156.Gibbs, R., and Nay,"& N. 1989.
Psycholinguistic Studieson the syntactic behavior of Idioms.
Cognitive Psychol-ogy 21,100-138.Goddard, N., Lynne, K., Mintz, T., and Bukys, L. 1989Rochester Connectionist Simulator.
Technical Report.University of Rochester.Gross, M., 1984.
Lexicon-grammar nd the synU~cticanalysis of French.
In Proceedings COLING '84.Koller, W., 1977.
Redensarten: linguistischeAspecte,Vorkommensanalysen.
Sprachspiel.
Ttibingen: Nie-meyer.Koskenniemi, K. 1983.
Two-level morphology.
PhD-thesis.
University of Helsinki.Lancker, D. van and Canter, G. 1981.
Idiomatic versus lit-eral interpretations of ditropically ambiguous sentences.Journal of Speech and Hearing Research 24, 64-69.Linden, E. van der, 1989.
Idioms and flexible cate-gorical grammar.
In Everaert and van der Linden (Eds.
)1989.Proceedings of the First Tilburg Workshop on Id-ioms.
Tilburg, the Netherlands, May 19, 1989.
Tilburg:ITK.Pesetsky, D. 1985.
Morphology and Logical form.
Lin-guistic Inquiry, 16 193-246.Rumelhart, D. and McClelland, J.
1986.
Parallel Dis-tributed processing.
Explorations inthe microstucture ofcognition.
Cambridge, Massachusetts, MIT press.Schweigert, W. and Moates, D. 1988.
Familiar idiomcomprehension.
Journal of Psycholinguistic Research,17, pp.
281-296.Stock, O.
1989.
Parsing with Flexibility, Dynamic Strateogies, and Idioms in Mind.
Computational Linguistics 1,1-19.Swinney, D. 1981.
Lexical processing during sentencecomprehension: effects of higher order constraints andimplications for representation.
I : T. Meyers, J. Laverand J. Anderson (eds.)
The cognitive representation fspeech.
North-Holland.Swiney, D. and Cutler, A.
1979.
The access and process?ing of idiomatic expressions.
JVLVB 18,523-534.Thibadeau, R., Just, M., and Carpenter, P. 1982.
AModel of the Time Course and Content of Reading.
Cog-nitive Science 6, 157-203.Wasow, T., Sag, I., and Nunberg, G. 1983.
Idioms:an interim report.
In Shiro Hattori and Kazuko Inoue(Eds.)
Proceedings of the Xlllth international congressof linguists.
Tokyo: CIPL 102-115.Wood, M. McGee, 1986.
A definition of idiom.
Mastersthesis, University of Manchester (1981).
Reproduced bythe Indiana University Linguistics Club.248 48emar l l l?
networkkick (ob~)  kick (~,dion) d~r, pa/I (objocl)ai  PallSemant ic  foa lure88yntact io  featuresWordformFig (2) Network representation: Un~ =im~ati~ exte*n i l  i~ l  from sy ~ ~lcl~ module: Unil s~a l~ o~lom~ k~put Irc~l ~J6 ~ Iov~Fig (3) Unit structureFig (4) Activation level of tile wordform and syntactic units1 ooo t IF ..........~1.
; .iF ! '
\[iiiii..:.. ,,,..750 ": .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
~" .............. ,o0_,t l , .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.0 5 10 15 20Cycles-El- kickbucketkick N~;;'~- kick V.~!~i;#.. bucket N"~ "I 000(I)?
?
750.>"6 < 500lg (.)
Activation level of the semantic units and tile semantic network0"- l / t~Y F f /"% "% ~'~5 10 15 20Cycleskick as actiondie as idiomkick (action)die5 249AppendixThe connectionist model for the retrieval of idioms aspresented in section 6 is based on the mechanism of in-teractive activation and competition (IAC).
An ideal IACnetwork consists of nodes that can take on continuous val-ues between aminimum and a maximum.
The activationof the units is also supposed to change only gradually intime.
This ideal is approximated by dividing time into aseries of small steps.
If we choose an activation functionthat cannot change very rapidly this discrete model actsas a good approximization for the ideal IAC-network.The network (Figure (2)) consists of a set of nodesthat are connected with links which can be excitatory orinhibitory (with a negative weight value).
Some unitscan receive xternal stimuli, e.g.
input from the syntacticmodule.
The internal structure of a unit is shown inFigure (3).
The input links are connected to a site thatcorresponds to their type.
So each unit has distinct sitesfor external, excitatory and inhibitory links.
The gate unitalso offers a separate gate site with a special site function.The site functions for the external, excitatory andinhibitory links simply compute the weighted sum of theinput values Iv.Sv = ~ wiIviThe site function for the gate site is a kind of"weightedAND" function.
Its behaviour is similar to the weightedsum function when all input links have a value differentfrom zero.
However if one of the input links connectedto the gate site is zero, the output Sv of the gate sitefunction is also zero.
The output of each site is scaled inorder to control the intluence of the different sites on theactivation value.Ne~input  = ScinhSvi,~h + Sc,zcSvezc+Sc~=t Sv,zt  + Scgat, Svo,~t~The activation value Av for a new timestamp t can nowbe computed:When Netinput is larger than zero:Av t = Av t - l  -4- (maz  - Avt -1 )Net input_decay(Av  t -  1 _ vest)When Netinput is less than zero:Avt = Av t -  1 + (Av t -  1 _ min)Net input_decay(  A v t -  1 _ ves~ )We see that the influence of Netinput on Av decreaseswhen Av reaches its minimum or maximum value.
Onthe other hand the influence of the decay rate is high inthe upper and lower regions.
When Netinput becomeszero, the Activation value slowly decreases to its restvalue.
The output value of the unit is equal to itsactivation, but only if the activation level is above apredefined treshold value.
Otherwise the output is zero.So a unit with maximum activation that does not receiveinput anymore, slowly decreases its output value and thansuddenly drops to zero beacuse its activation is belowtreshold value.
This non linear behaviour is at~ essentialproperty of connectionist models.The bottom-up links are stronger than the top-downlinks because a unit may only be activated by bottom-upevidence.
Top-down information may however influencethe decision process at a lower level.The values of the parameters in the model are:Sci,,h 0.6Se, ,c  0.6Sc , , t  0.6Scaat~ 0.6treshold 0.5decay 0.1bottom-up weights 0.8top-down weights 0.25inhibitory weights -0.8external input weights 1.0max 1.0min -1.0rest 0A simulation consists of a number of cycles in whichactivation spreads through the network.
In each cycle theoutput and activation values for a time t are calculatedfrom the values on time t-1.
Figure (4) and (5) showthe activation levels of the active units in the model:only activation levels above treshold (500) are displayed.At the beginning of  the simulation all units are in reststate.
We start the simulation for the disambiguationof "kick (the) bucket" by setting the output value ofthe external unit "kick" representing the output of a subwordform level to 1.
After three update cycles, theoutput of the external unit I I  (representing the fact thatbucket is recognized) is set to 1.
The duration of anexternal input is always one cycle.
The availabilityof syntactic information is simulated by activating I I Iband I I I c  before cycle seven.
Figure (4) shows that theunit representing kick as a verb immediately follows thissyntactic information and "kick as a noun" falls beneathactivation treshold.
After some more cycles a stablesituation is reached (Figure (5)) which represents he bestfitting hypothesis: the idiomatic reading.250 6
