GENERATING CONNECTIVESMichael ElhadadKathleen R. McKeownDepartment ofComputer Science450 Computer Science BuildingColumbia UniversityNew York, N.Y. 10027ELHADAD@CS.COLUMBIA.EDUMCKEOWN@CS.COLUlVlBIA.EDUABSTRACTWe present an implemented procedure to select anappropriate connective to link two propositions, whichis part of a large text generation system.
Each connec-tive is defined as a set of constraints between features offlxe propositions it connects.
Ore' focus has been toidentify pragmatic features flint can be produced by adeep generator to provide a simple representation fconnectives.
Using these features, we can account for avariety of connective usages, and we can distinguishbetween similar connectives.
We describe how a sur-fi~ee generator can produce complex sentences whengiven these features in input.
The selection procedure isirnplemented as part of a large functional unificationgralmnar.1.
INTROI )UCT ION:  MOTIVAT IONA language %~:.eration system that produces com-plex sentences must be able to determine which connec-tive (e.g., "but," "although/' "since," "because,""and," etc.)
best links its embedded sentences.
Pre-vious text generation systems (McKeown, 1985, Mann,1984, Davey, 1979, Hovy, 1987) 1 have generally used anotion similar to rhetorical relations to describe the con-nection between propositions.
They make a one-to-onemapping from these relations to connectives for genera-tion (for example, the relation "opposition" would berealized by the connective "but").
In this approach it isdifficult to distinguish between similar comlectives(e.g., because vs. since or but vs. although).
These con-nectives can not be used interchangeably, however, anda generation system must be able to make the correctchoice.In this paper, we describe a model for connectivechoice which distinguishes between similar connectives.It is based on a representation f utterances - called"interpretative fommt" (IF) (Elhadad & McKeown,1988) - which captures several dimensions of theirusage.
We present an implemented procedure to selectan appropriate connective given IFs for two proposi-tions.
We demonstrate how our surface generator usesI\]:s to choose between the four connectives but,although, since and because.1From published reports, we assume these are the primary genera-fion systems that make any attempts at connective g neration.Each connective is described as a set of constraintsbetween the features of the propositions it connects.This allows for a simple representation f the connec-tive but one that captures a wide variety of differentuses.
An IF contains four pragmatic features in additionto the propositional content and speech act of theproposition: argumentative orientation (Duerot, 1983),the set of conclusions that the proposition supports;functional status (Sinclair & Coulthard, 1975, Roulet etal, 1985), its structural relationship to the remaining dis-course segment; polyphonic features (Ducrot, 1983), in-dicating whether the speaker attributes the utterance tohimself or to others; and a thematization procedure,which describes the connection between discourse n-tities in the propositions.
Connective selection is im-plemented through constraint satisfaction using a func-tional unification grammar.2.
PREVIOUS WORK ON CONNECTIVEDESCRIPT IONThe most basic constraint on connection is oftenreferred to as homogeneousness condition: two proposi-tions can be conjoined if "they have something in com-mon."
Which features of the conjuncts must behomogeneous is a difficult question: (Chomsky, 1957,p.36) stated a constraint on syntactic homogeneousness(conjuncts must be "o f  the same type"); a purely syn-tactic constraint is, however, largely insufficient osatisfy the needs of a text generation system, since filedecision to conjoin must be made before the syntacticstructure of the conjuucts is determined.
(Lakoff,1971) proposed a semantic approach to the problem ofhomogeneousness: conjuncts must have a "commontopic" for conjunction to be possible (p. 118).
Based onthis definition of homogeneousness, she distinguishedbetween a "semantic" meaning o f "but"  (to express asemantic opposition) and a pragmatic usage of "but"(to deny expectations), for eases which would notsatisfy the homogeneousness constraint (e.g., "John isrich but dumb").
Such a distinction between a semanticand a pragmatic analysis of connectors i criticized in(Abraham, 1979, p.104) (Lang, 1984, pp172ff) and(Ducrot et al 1980).
Lang (1984) presents a generalsemantics for conjunction that does not distinguish be-tween pragmatic (or contextual) and semantic levels.Lang attributes to conjunctions an operative semantics:conjunctions' meanings are sets of "instructions" fbr"carrying out certain mental operations" (p. 96) 2.
The~A similar operative approach is advocated in Ducrot, 1983)1 97meaning of connectors is a "program" that controlshow a "common integrator" can be constructed fromthe meaning of each conjunct.
In our work, we use asimilar approach for the definition of connectives, but,since we work on generation (as opposed to interpreta-tion), we describe the meaning of connectives as sets ofconstraints hat must be satisfied between the conjunctsas opposed to "instructions."
We use the notion ofthematization procedure to account for thehomogeneousness condition (of.
Section 5).
In thispaper, we concentrate on the distinctions betweensimilar connectives rather than on the general propertiesof the class of connectives.Work on the structure of discourse (Cohen, 1984,Reichman, 1985, Grosz & Sidner, 1986) has identifiedthe role of connectives in marking structural shifts.
Thiswork generally relies on the notion that hearers maintaina discourse model (which is often represented usingstacks).
Connectives give instructions to the hearer onhow to update the discourse model.
For example,"now" (Hirschberg & Litman, 1987) can indicate thatthe hearer needs to push or pop the current stack of themodel.
When used in this manner, connectives arecalled "cue (or clue) words."
This work indicates thatthe role of connectives i not only to indicate a logicalor conceptual relation, but also to indicate the structuralorganization of discourse.
The distinction between cueand non-cue usages is an important one, and we alsoattempt to capture cue usages, but the structural indica-tion (which often has the form of just push or pop)under-constrains the choice of a cue word -.
it does notcontrol how to choose among the many markers indicat-ing a pop.Halliday (Halliday, 1985) proposes that the connec-tion between clauses can be described on three dimen-sions: taxis, expansion and projection.
This model isimplemented in the Nigel system (Mann & Matthiessen,1983).
It provides a fine-grained classification of abroad set of connectives.
However, labels used todescribe the type of relation between two propositionswithin the expansion system are similar to rhetoricalrelations and precise definitions of these relations, todate, have tended to be subjective.Like Halliday, we also attempt o provide a fine-grained characterization f connectives and our modelhas features that are similar to Halliday's tccds andprojection systems.
However, the use of argumentativefeatures and a thematization procedure allows us toavoid reliance on rhetorical relations.Our work is influenced by work in pragmatics onimplicature (Levinson, 1983, Karttunen & Peters,1979) which proposed a two-level representation f ut-terances (propositional content and implicatures).
It isalso based on a "multi-dimensional" description of ut-terances and describes connectives as devices acting oneach pragmatic dimension.
"But" and "although" can be distinguished bytheir influence on the discom~e structure in which theyare embedded.
We draw upon a theory of conversationorganization common in conversation analysis (Sinclair& Coulthard, 1975, Taylor and Cameron, 1987~ Rouletet al 1985, Moeschler, 1986) to explain this distinction.The model describes conversation as a hierarchicalstructure and defines three levels of constituents: speechacts, move and exchange.
A move correspond s to a turnof a speaker in a conversational exchange between twoor more speakers.
It is made up of several speech acts.In the structure of a move, one speech act is dh'ective;all others are subordinate - they modify or elaborate thedirective act (Roulet et al 1985).
Intuitively, thedirective act is the reason why the speaker startedspeaking.
It constrains what can follow the move in thediscourse.
While a move may consist of several sub~ordinate speech acts in addition to the directive act, thedirective controls the possibilities for successive ut-terances.
Thus, it detemfines what is accessible in thestructure of the preceding discourse.To see how this characterization f discourse canexplain the distinction between "but" and "although,"consider the following examples:(1) * He failed the exam,although e is smart.
Let's hire him.
(2) He failed the exam,but he is smart.
Let's hire him.In both (1) and (2), the first sentence xpresses acontrastive r lation between two propositions.
But, thefill sequence (2) is coherent, whereas the sequence (1)sounds peculiar in most situations.
This can be ex~plained by the fact that in "P but Q" Q has directivestatus while in "P although Q," Q has subordinatestatus.
In (2) then, "he is smart" has directive status,whereas in (1) it is subordinate.
Therefore, the ar-gumentative o6entation of the complex sentence as awhole in (l) is the argumentative orientation of "hefailed the exam" and it is the argumentative orientationof "he is smart" in (2).
The conclusion (let's hire him)is only compatible with "he is sinai,.
"This distinction is similar to Halliday's taxis system(the classic subordinate/coordinate distinction) butoperates at a different level.
Although "but" is a con-junction, meaning that P and Q have the same syntacticstatus, P and Q have a different influence on the follow-ing discourse.
We therefore require the input to thesurface generator to indicate the "point" of a move, butto leave the syntactic status of each proposition un-specified.
This more delicate decision is made by thesurface generator.4.
DISTINCTION BECAUSE/SINCE:POLYPHONIC FEATURES"Because" and "since ''3 have the same argumen-3?
DISTINCTION BUT VS.
ALTHOUGH:FUNCTIONAL STATUS3we consider only the causal meaning of"since" here98 2tative behavior and give the same fnnctional status tothe propositions they connect.
Their different usagescan be explained using Ducrot's theory of polyphony(Duerot, 1983).
Duerot distinguishes between thespeaker and the utterers: in an utterance, some segmentspresent beliefs held by the speaker, and others presentbeliefs reported by the speaker, but attributed to others -the ntterers.Using this theory, the difference between "be-cause" and "since" is as follows: in the complex "Psince Q," the segments P and Q can be attributed todifferent utterers ("since" is polyphonic), whereas in"P because Q," they must be attributed to the sameutterer ("because" is monophonic).Others have described "because" and "since" bynoting distributional differences such as:1.
To answer a "why"  question, only "beocause" works:Ai Why did Peter leave?B: Because he had to catch a train.B: *Since he had to catch a train.2.
"Because" has a tendency to follow themain clause while "since" has a tendencyto precede it (Quiak et al 1972, 11.37).3.
"because"-elauses can be the focus ofcleft sentences (Quirk et al 1972):It is because he helped youthat I'm prepared to help him.
*It is since he helped youthat I'm prepared to help him.The given/new distinction gives one interpretation fthese differences: "because" introduces new infor-mation, whereas "since" introduces given inibrmation(where given is defined as information that the listeneralready knows or has accessible to him (Halliday,1985)).
Halliday also indicates that, in the umnarkedease, new information is placed towards the end of theclause.
And indeed "because" appears towards theend, the nnmarked position of new intbnnation, and"since" towards the beginning.
"Because" can be thefocus of an It-cleft sentence which is also characteristicof new information (of (Prince, 1978) for example).'
' Because" can answer a why-question, thus providingnew information to the asker.
Presenting iven infor-mation in response could not serve as a direct answer.There are many different types of given information,however (Prince, 1981).
Polyphony is one type of giveninformation but it adds an additional parameter: eachpiece of given information is attributed to a particularutterer.
That utterer can be one of the speakers (this issimilar to indirect speech), or it can be a mutuallyknown previous discourse.
The ability to distinguishhow the "since" clause is given (i.e., which utterer con-tributed iit) is crucial to correct use of sentences like (3).From a father to his child:(3) Since you are so tired, you must sleep.in (3), the speaker presents the hearer as the sourceof "you are tired," and uses the fact that the hearer haspreviously uttered this sentence as the argument for"you must sleep."
If the hearer is not the source of thesentence, this strategy cannot convince him to go tosleep.
Given/new in this ease is therefore a polyphonicdistinction, and polyphony provides an added imensionto the distinction.In summary, "because" and "since" have the sameargumentative and functional status definitions, but theyhave different polyphonic definitions.
"Because" re-quires P and Q to have the same utterers, while "since"does not.5;.
THEMATIZAT ION PROCEDURE:CUE VS. NON-CUE USAGEAs mentioned in Section 2, the most basic constrainton the use of all connectives, is that the two relatedpropositions ay something about the same "thing"(Lakoff, 1971, p. l 18).
It must be possible to find a dis-course entity that is mentioned in both P and Q for aconnection PcQ to be acceptable.
We call the set ofdiscom~e ntities mentioned in an utterance the themeof a proposition.
The constraint is that the themes of Pand Q intersect.
For example, in (2) "he failed theexam but he is smart," the entity in common is theperson refelTed to by "he"  in both P and Q.
In simplecases, this common entity can be found among the par-ticipants in the process described by the proposition.
Inmany cases, however, the common entity cannot befound in the propositional contents of P and Q, and yetthe connection is coherent as shown in (4), (5), and (6).
(4) Are you going to the post office?- because I have some letters to send\[i.e., I ask this because ...\] (Quirk et al 1972, p.752)(5) He paid for the book, because I saw him\[i.e., I claim that because...\](Quirk et al 1972, p.559)(6) A: where is she?B: She is sick,since you want to know everything.\[i.e., I talk because you insist...\] (Roulet et al 1985)We explain these connections by introducing the no-tion of thematization procedure.
The elements of thetheme are not limited to the entities mentioned in thepropositional content of a proposition.
They can also bederived from other aspects of an utterance.
In (4) and(5), the theme contains the speech act realized in P:"because" justifies the fact that the locutor asked aquestion or asserted knowing something, and not thefact asserted or questioned.
We say that "because"links on the speech act rather than on the propositionalcontent.
The SA thematization procedure adds the fea-ture Speech-Act:  to the theme of the proposition Q.
In(6), "since" links on the Utterance Act: the fact that Butters "she is sick" is justified by A's insistence onknowing everything (note that "since" does not justifythe assertion but the fact that B is speaking at all).It is characteristic of cei~ain connectives to allow3 99;; Polyphonic mention of a known principle: use sinceSince turning the switch to the left causes the power to decrease,the transmission capacity decreases.
;; Explanat ion by a new fact: use becauseThe transmission capacity decreases because you turn the switch to the left.
;; Subordinate act is an imperative - use butReplace the battery, but keep the old battery.
;; Subordinate act can be syntactical ly subordinate - use althoughAlthough you replaced the battery, keep the old battery.Figure6-1: System generated complex clauseslinking on certain features or not - that is, to allow theuse of a certain thematization procedure.
(4) and (5)show that "because" allows the use of the Speech Actthematization procedure and (6) shows that "since" al-lows the use of the utterance act procedure.
We cur-rently use the following thematization procedures in ourimplementation: Propositional Content, ArgumentativeDerivation, Functional Status, Speech Act and UtteranceAct.In a complete text generation system, the "deepcomponent ''4 given certain information to convey,decides when it is possible to make some of it implicitby using a certain thematization procedure.
The effectis to remove certain discoupse ntities from the proposi-tional content to be generated.
Using a non-PCthematization procedure therefore allows to implicitlydiscuss certain features of an utterance that may be dif-ficult to address explicitly.
The deep module we arecurrently developing (Elhadad, 1990a) will use polite-ness constraints (Brown & Levinson, 1987) to decidewhich thematization is most appropriate.CUE VS. NON-CUE USAGE: Thematization proceduresallow us to distinguish cue and non-cue usages of con-nectives.
When a connective links on a feature that isnot the propositional content, it does not affect he truthconditions of the propositions, at least in the traditionalview.
This suggests that non-content linking is in someways similar to the cue/non-cue distinction discussed insection 2.
Our approach does therefore capture this dis-tinction, but with several differences.
It describes thestructural move performed by the connective (whedler itis a push or a pop, for example) using features of the"nonnal" (i.e., non-cue) interpretation: if C introducesa directive act, it would work as a "pop," if it intro-duces a subordinate act, it would be a "push."
Thus, acue interpretation f a connective differs from non-cueby the thematization procedure; cue usage would be in-dicated by linking on the functional status, and possiblyspeech act or utterance act.It remains open whether cue connectives retain all4Generation systems are generally divided into two modules: adeep module decides what to say and a surface module decides how tosay it.other features of non-cue usage: does a connective looseits normal meaning when used as a cue?
Some resear-chers (Grosz & Sidner, 1986, Hirschberg & Litman,1987) seem to argue that it does: the cue and non-cueusages are actually two distinct words.
If that is thecase, it would be difficult for a generator to chooseamong the different cue words that can perform thesame structural task.
On the other hand, we have noevidence at this point that cue words are not inter-changeable ( .g., that "but" is used for one kind of popand "now" another).6.
IMPLEMENTATIONThe procedure for selecting connectives i part ofFUF, a larger surface generator using the functionalunification formalism (Elhadad, 1988, Elhadad, 1990b,McKeown&Elhadad, 1990).
Each connective isrepresented as a functional description capturing therelations between the features of the segments it con-nects.
Functional unification is well suited for ourmodel because constraints on each pragqnatic dimensioncan be described separately and the formalism handlesinteraction between these dimensions.
The generatedsentences in Figure 6-1 typify the kind of sentences oursystem currently produces.7.
CONCLUSIONSWe have presented a model that distinguishes be-tween similar connectives.
This work synthesizestheoretical work in argumentation (Anscombre &Ducrot, 1983), conversation analysis (Sinclair & Coul-thard, 1975, Roulet et al 1985, Moeschler, 1985),polyphony and given/new studies (Duerot, 1983, Hal-liday, 1985, Prince, 1981) into a coherent computationalframework.
Connective choice is implemented usingfunctional unification.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThis work was supported by DARPA under contract#N00039-84-C-0165 and NSF grant IRT-84-51438.100 4REFERENCESAbrahmn, Weruer.
(1979).
BUT.
Studia Linguistica,XXX\[II(II), 89-119.Anseombre, J.C. & Ducrot, O.
(1983).
Philosophie etlangage.
L'argumentation clans la langue.Bruxelles: Pierre Mardaga.Brown, P. & Levinson, S.C. (1987).
Studies in Inter-actional Sociolinguistics 4.
Politeness : Someuniversals in language usage.
Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.Chomsky, N. (1957).
Syntactic Structures.
The Hague:Mouton.Cohen, R. (July 1984).
A computational theory of thefunction of clue words in argument understand-ing.
Coling84.
Stanford, California: COLING,251-258.Davey, A.
(1979).
Discourse Production.
Edinburgh:Edinburgh University Press.Ducrot, O.
(1983).
Le sens commun.
Le dire et le dit.Paris: Les editions de Minuit.Duerot, O. et al (1980).
Le sens commun.
Les roots dudiscour~.
Paris: Les editions de Minuit.Elhadad, M. (1988).
The FUF Functional Unifier:User's manual.
Technical Report CUCS-408-88,Columbia University.Michael Elhadad.
(1990).
Constraint-based TextGeneration: Using local constraints and argumen-tation to generate a turn in conversation.
Tech-nical Report CUCS-003-90, Columbia University.Elhadad, M. (1990).
Types in Functional UnificationGrammars.
Proceedings of ACL '90.
Pittsburgh.Elhadad, M and McKeown, K.R.
(1988).
What do youneed to produce a 'but'.
Technical ReportCUCS-334-88, Columbia University.Grosz, B. and Sidner, C. (1986).
Attentions, intentions,and the structure of discourse.
ComputationalLinguistics, 12(3), 175-204.Halliday, M.A.K.
(1985).
An Introduction to Func-tional Grammar.
London: Edward Arnold.Hirschberg, J. and Litman, D. (1987).
Now let's talkabout Now: identifying clue phrases intonation-ally.
Proceedings of the 25th Conference oJ" theACL.
Association for Computational Linguistics,163-1'71.Eduard Hovy.
(1987).
Generating natural anguage un-der pragmatic onstraints.
Doctoral dissertation,Yale University.Karttunen, L. & S. Peters.
(1979).
Conventional hn-plieature.
In Oh & Dinneen (Ed.
), Syntax andSemantics.
Vol.
11: Presupposition.
New York:Academic Press.Lakoff, R. (1971).
IFs, ANDs and BUTs: about con-junction.
In Fillmore & Laugendoen (Ed.
),Studies ht Linguistic Semantics.
New York:Holt, Rinehart & Winston.Lang, Ewald.
(1984).
SLCS.
Vol.
9: The Semantics ofCoordination.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins B.V.Original edition: Semantic der koordinativenVerknupfung, Berlin, 1977.Levinson, S.C. (1983).
Pragmatics.
Cambridge,England: Cambridge University Press.Mann, W.C. (1984).
Discourse Structure for TextGeneration.
Teelmical Report ISI/RR-84-127, h-formation Sciences Institute.Mann, W.C. and Matthiessen, C. (1983).
Nigel: a Sys-temic Grammar for Text Generation.
TechnicalReport ISI/RR-83-105, USC/ISI.MeKeown, K.R.
(1985).
Text Generation: Using Dis-course Strategies" and Focus Constraints toGenerate Natural Language Text.
Cambridge,England: Cambridge University Press.McKeown, K. and M. Elhadad.
(1990).
A ContrastiveEvaluation of Functional Unification Grammarfor Surface Language Generators: A Case Studyin Choice of Connectives.
In Cecile L. Paris,William R. Swartout and William C.
Mann(Eds.
), Natural Language Generation in ArtificialIntelligence and Computational Linguistics.Kluwer Academic Publishers.
(to appear).Moeschler, J.
(1985).
LAL.
Argumentation etConver-sation: Elements pour une analyse pragmatiquedu discours.
Paris: Hatier~Credif.Moeschler, J.
(1986).
Connecteurs pragmatiques, loisde discours et strategies interpretatives: parce queet la justification enonciative.
Cahiers de Linguis-tique Francaise, (7), pp.
pages 149-168.Prince, E.F. (December 1978).
A Comparison of Wh-Clefts and It-clefts in Discourse.
Language, 54(4),883-906.Prince, E.F. (1981).
Toward a Taxonomy of Given-New Infonnation.
In Cole, P.
(Ed.
), RadicalPragmatics.
New York: Academic Press.Quirk, R. et al (1972).
A Grammar of ContemporaryEnglish.
Longman.Reiclmmn, R. (1985).
Getting computers to talk likeyou and me: discourse context, focus and seman-tics (an ATN model).
Cambridge, Ma: MITpress.Roulet, E. et al (1985).
L 'articulation du discours enfi'ancais contemporain.
Lang: Berne.Sinclair and Coulthard.
(1975).
Towards an Analysis ofDbcourse.
Oxford, England: Oxford UniversityPress.Taylor, T.J. and Cameron, D. (1987).
Language &Communication Libraly.
Vol.
9: Analysing Con-versation: Rules and Units in the Structure ofTalk.
Oxford: Pergamon Press.5 101
