CARAMEL:  A flexible model for interaction between the cognitive processesunderlying natural language understanding.G~rard Sabah.L1MSI, B.P.
13391403 ORSAY CEDEX - FRANCETel : (1) 69 85 80 03 - Fax : (1) 69 85 80 88E-mail : SABAH@FRLIM51 (EARN)Abstract :In this paper we present a general natural language processing system called CARAMEL (inFrench : Comprdhension Automatique de R~cits, Apprentissage t Moddlisation des E:changesLangagiers)o Over the last few years our group has developed many pro~ams to deal with differem:aspects of natural language processing: This paper describes a general m'chitectt~re tha~ integratesthem in a flexible way, and provides acontrol strategy capable of adapting itself to the requirementsof a particular ~sko The model is composed o:r three ftmd~r~ental elements "- a structm?ex~ memory containing pe~nanent l~owledge and wofldng structures of the system- a set of processes, dedicated to the execution of the various cogmtive tasksa supervisor, whose function is to Ixigger, to run coherently and to synchronize the pmcessesoThe sysmm contains akind of blackboaN, which b; enhanced with a control mechanism &iver~by recta-rules.
This a:rchitecture is fully implemented?
We am etm'ently developing the meta-m3esnecessary to use the model for various tasks.io 5usf i f ieat i~ ~f the approae~Research in A\]\[ is baseA on the assumptionthat intelligertce can be thought of as the~ransformafior~ f ~nfor~na~or~ (Newell &Simon (63), Fodor (68)) in order to solveproblems?
Viewed in this light, NL processingconsists in chang~rtg represek~tat~er~s f oma forma~ language to another.~Ne ?angltages u ed in CARAMEL are based onconcepuuff grap~ (Sowa 84).
q~is ,qeuerag formal-ism has been exten&d in order to allow sophlseica-~ed inference mechanis~.
Its use facilitates ~hecommu~dcao'on between ~he processes.Given the diversity of knowledge sources,we are confronted with the problem of conflictresolution and resource management.
The cur-rent a'end in AI is to express knowledge in adeclarative form, but the independence of theknow|edge sources causes artificial ambiguity?to order to be efficient, NL systems may needto integrate all the knowledge sourees~ btxtorganizing the knowledge with this objective inmind is a rather difficult enterprise.
Theessential problem is the inadequacy of thecontrol mechanisms in classical systems, nomatter whether their architecture is serial,hierarchical or heterarchical.
Erman et Lesser(80) suggest hat a solution is to base complexsystems on a blackboard architecture.
Thisallows for distributed control, for autonomous1.
For an application of  this principle in a parser, see(Sabah & Rady 83).and asynchronous use of the knowledgesources.
The implementation of increasinglyelaborate systems leads All to multi-expert'ssys tems,  that al low for complexcommunications and for flexible use of metal.knowledge (Haton 89)..
Nevertheless, oneimportant problem remains : once a process isstarted no external control can intervene.Hence, control remains intetrnittenl.Our a~'chitecture integrates ff~se ~eas and eX o~en~ ef~e 6l,~ck6oard model 6 9 including acon?in.uous control system, allowing asophisticated rt~rlwemen~ of the Wocesscs and ofH~eir in~:ert,;.Ftion, qgis is reade possible bypars\[gel imp(ementa~ion.TIae arc~igec~ure f  CAgAMELOm o model takes into account he fact thatthe vario~a processes cannot be, we-ordered(their order depends on the global task and theparticular data to be processed) and that theirmanagement has to be based <m a p~am-~h,gprocess?
~\[r, CARAMEL the sequence of pro.
?cesses to be applied in a given situation ia orderto realize a given task is planned by a supervbsot.
Another important role of this supervisoris to update the working memory : as it is theonly one to have a global view, it is entitled todecide what representations should be kept andbe updated in a global working memory.Finally, it builds a general representation of thereasoning process ; thus it can explain why agiven process has been triggered.446 1The system may be used in such differentapplications as : user-friendly interfaces, on-line help in text processors, ummaries of texts,intelligent tutoring systems, etc.2.
The CARAMEL model2.1 The memoryAs we have seen, natural languageprocessing can be conceived of as a change ofrepresentation.
To handle this task, we makesuse of three kinds of memory :- a short term memory, which receives theresults of the perceptual processes.- a working memory,  which contains allthe structures (eventually provisional) built bythe different processes.
The text is representedat the various levels differently according to thepoint of view.
Even though the workingmemory functions like a blackboard, it is underthe control of the master process.- a long term memory which contains allthe knowledge of the system.
This memorycontains for example information aboutmorphology, words, grammar, syntax,semantics and pragmatics, and it is a stablerepresentation f the current state of the world.All this knowledge is permanent, declarativeand expressed in terms of conceptual graphs(Sowa 84), as this formalism facilitates thecommunication between processes 2.2.2 ProcessesLet us briefly mention some of theprocesses used in CARAMEL : a deterministicparser (Rady 83, Sabah et Rady 83,Francopoulo 88) based on case grammar(Fillmore 68) and systemic grammar (Halliday73), an ellipsis (Sauvage 88) and an anaphora-solver, an error handler (Fournier 88), storyinteIpretation processes (Sabah 78), (Berthelin80), (Grau 84), a planner used in dialoguehandling (Vilnat 86)\[the work on dialoguedraws on work from linguistics (Roulet 86) andphilosophy (Searle 69, Grice 75)\], and asentence generator (Zock 90).All these processes are triggered by amaster process, the supervisor.
Before weexplain its functioning, let us see how theprocesses are represented in the system.2.
At present he implemented data corresponds to aFrench lexicon of 15 000 entries (about 350 000conjugated forms), a semantic net of a thousandconcepts, a grammar (350 rules) allowing the analysisof complex sentences with prepositional nd relativephrases (in French), and pragmatic knowledge about heworld (at present, he system knows only a few framesin order to test he validity of the processes).Representation of  t,~e processesIn order to find the most adequate processin a given situation, the supervisor uses arepresentation of each process specifying itsinputs and outputs.
For example :(Sentence analysis (INPUT(otrrPtrr(Type list)(Elements words))(Type cpt.
graphs)(Element syntactic rp0(Element semantic rpr)))CARAMEL distinguishes between the followingtwo types of process :- Elementary processes (such as ellipse oranaphorae resolution), whose task is tocomvlete gxi~stin_g r./gpresentations.
In case ofproblem, they will call the supervisor.-Compound processes (parsing, story in-terpretation, generation., o), which are compo-sed of elementary or compound processes.They build ~ '~ r.Lqp/.~E?~.~.
In their turn,they can be considered sub-supervisors (basedon an internal planning process, they decidewhat actions have to be performed and theyknow how to represent what has been done).3, The supervisorThe supervisor triggers the adequate pro-cesses in order to build the necessaryrepresentations, it handles the various problemsthat can appear, and it represents the actionsthat have to be performed.
Moreover, thesupervisor builds a dynamic representation fthe sequence of processes activated to solve theglobal task.
This representation is built in theworking memory and allows the system to giveexplanations about the strategy used.
As eachcomplex process acts as a supervisor withregards to its subprocesses, the system has arecursive structure.The supervisor analyses the representationsstored in the working memory and deduces theprocesses that may be triggered, it also takesinto account he needs of the active processesand the global task: it has to handle inter-ruptions coming from them.
Thus, the systemintegrates bottom-up and top-down control.The basis of this reasoning is a planningprocess.
If, for example, the task of the systemis to understand a story, it knows a priori that ithas to built a global representation f it.
First, a.static planner builds the sequence of complexprocesses that can build this type ofrepresentation (parser + story understanding).The same type of reasoning produces ub-plansfor the complex processes involved.
For2 447example, this means in the case of storyunderstanding : action, character and pragmaticinterpretations, followed by a synthesis)This first phase is independent of the datato be processed, and, as some aspects are notyet well defined, several processes may be op-tional (pronoun resolution, error correction...).In a second phase, a dynamic planner allowsthe system to adapt he static plan to the specificdata present in the working memories.Whenever a problem arises, the dynamic plan-ning process takes care of it, by determining(based on the inputs and outputs of theavailable processes) the kind of process capableto solve it.
This mechanism is similar to the"hierarchical planning" proposed by Stefik(81), or Wilkins (84).
We use a similar kind ofmeta-planning : if there are several solutionspossible, they are ordered by the supervisorsuch as to increase fficiency.The existence of these two planning phasesallows that a process selected in the staticplanning phase can break down.
When thisoccurs, a help request is sent to the supervisorwhich triggers a dynamic planning phase.When the processes elected in this secondphase solve the problem, the original process isresumed 3.4o Co .c lus~osIn this paper, we have presented a generalarchitecture capable of adapting its control stra-tegy to the requirements of different asks.
Itpermits a modular implementation, it makes themodification of existing processes and the inte-gration of new capacities in the system easier?Another characteristic of our system (not de-veloped here) is that it is capable to explain itsactions.
This has proven quite helpful whenputting the final touch to the rule-base.This capacity has interesting consequenceson the learning process : as the system remem-bers the actions it has performed in a given si-tuation, it is able - in the near future - to findanalogies between the memorized situations andthe actual one.
In consequence it can bypassthe supervisor when reasoning.
CARAMEL isthus a flexible system, capable to manage agreat number of different asks, with an adapta-t ire architecture and an optimal use of pro-cesses.3.
Parallelism offers another solution to adapt the staticplan to the data.
Its implementation, currently underdevelopment, will permit a continuous control on theprocesses: the supervisor will be able to examine therepresentations that are being constructed and, possiblyinterrupt agiven process in order to wait for the result ofanother one or to give it some advice.BibliographyBerthelin Jean-Baptism 1980 Story characters constructedby program, Coling, Tokyo.Boguraev Branimir et Karen Spark-Jones 1987 A note on astudy of cases, Computational linguistics, 13 1-2, 65-68.Davis Randall, Bruce Buchanan et Edward Shorliffe 1977Production rules as a representation for aknowledge-based consultation program, Artificalintelligence, 8 (1), pp.
15-45.Erman L.D., V.R.
Lesser 1980 The HEARSAY-II speechunderstanding system : a tutorial, in Trends in speech re-cognition, Lea, Englewood Cliffs Prentice Hall 361-381.Fillmore Charles 1968 The case for case, in Universals inlinguistic theory, Bach & Harms, Chicago, Holt,Rinehart and Winston, pp.
1-90.Fodor Jerry 1968 The appeal to lacit knowledge inpsycho-logical explanations, Journal of philosophy, 20, p.632.Fournier Jean-Pierre 1988 Traitement des erreurs dans lacommunication Homme-Machine enLN, Acres GRECO-PRC communication Homme-Machine, Paris.Francopoulo Gil 1988 Analyse du franeais avec appren~tissage inductOe de la syntaxe, th~se univ.
P&M Curie.Grau Brigitte 1984 Stalking coherence in the topicaljungle, 5th ICGCS, Tokyo.Grice H.P.
1975 Logic and conversation, in Syntax a~dsemantics 3 : speech acts, Coles & Morgan, Academicpress, New York, ppo 41-58oHalliday Michael 1973 Explorations in the functions oflanguage ~Arnold, Londres.Haton Jean-Paul 1989 Panorama des systdmes multLagents, Haton (ed), Architectmes avancdes pour I'IA.Minsky Marvin 1974 A framework for representingknowledge, Memo 306, MIT, Cambridge Mass.Newell Allen et Herbert Simon 1963 GPS, a progran~ thatsimulates human thought.
In Computers and thought,Feigenbaum & Feldman, McGraw Hill, NY~ 279-293.Rady Mohamed 1983 L~ambigu~td du langage naturelest-elle la source du non-eMterminisme desproc/.dums detraitement ?~ Th~se d'dtat, Univ.
P&M Curie.Roulet 1986 Stratdgies interactives et interprdtatives ~franq~ais contemporain, Cahier de Linguistique franeak~n?
'/, Uuiversit6 de Gen~ve.Sabah Gdrard 1978 Contribution h la comprdhensioneffective d'un r4cit, Th~se d'dtat, Univ.
P & M Curie.Sabah Gdrard, Mohamed Rady 1983 A deterministicsyntactic-semantic parser, 8?
IJCAI, Karlsruhe.Sauvage Caroline 1988 Gestion des ellipses dans unsyst~me de comprdhension du franeais, note LIMSI 88-7,Searle John 1969 Speech acts, Cambridge.Sowa John 1984 Conceptual structures : informationprocessing in mind and machine, Addison Wesley,Reading, MA.Stefik M. 1981 Planning with constraints, ArtificialIntelligence, 16, pp.
111-170.Vilnat Anne 1986 Relevant responses in man-machineconversation, Structure of multimodal dialogues, Venaco.Wilkins David 1984 Domain-independant planning : repre-sentation and plan generation, A.L, 22, 269-301.Zock Michael 1990 "See What I Mean ?"
Interactivesentence generation as a way of visualizing the meaningform relationship, WCCE-90, 5th World Conference onComputers inEducation, Sidney.448 3
