, ,  cTowards Convenient Bi-Directional Grammar Formalisms?
I '  ?
'AbstractP.
NewmzrnIBM Pale Alto Scientific Center1530 Page Mill RoadPale Alto, CA 94304, US/YThis paper discusses tim advantages for practical bi :,direclional grammars 6(combirfiug a lexical fbcus withthe (}PEG-originated principle of immediate-dominance/line.ar-precedence (I\[)/1,P) rule partitioning.It.
also outlines an implenlentation approach fbllowingthese gafidelines.
The approach is inspired by SlotGrammar, with additions including more explicit map.pings between surface and internal representations, andpreferential constihJent ordering, rules.~.
Introductio~aTim term bi-directional gramrnar JbrmalLsm here refersto an implementation formalism capable of producinggrammars usable in both analysis and generation.
Suchgrammars can be advantageons for machine translationand other applicalions for reasons of ee?
'n?my; they alsoaid in grammar validation, as suggeste d by  Dymetmanand lsabelle (1988).There have been major strides taken in recent years inbi-directional formalisms, based on 'many differentparadigms, tn many cases some elements of tlm specifi-,cations are directiqn-unique, l lowever, bi-directionality'' S r is not an end in it.
el,, .as contrasted xEith its potentialgains.
So tile goal can be usefblly approximated witl~formalisms which make some limited distincfionsbetween informatio~a pplying to parsing and to gener-ation. "
'Amcng recent efforts ill this area at& ' (a)  theCRIITER.
system described by l)ymetman.
and Isabelle(1988), in which an annotated etinite clause grammar iscompiled differently based on the annotations, for thetwo purposes, (b.)
the inversion of a systemic generatorby Kasper (1988) (in wlfic h phrase structure is said to beadded mamially \['or parsing), (c) the I)I'I\V 'generator ofCaraceni and Stock (1988), which is based on arl aug-' mented trartsition network (ATN) and which seems toemploy a "gm~erate and,tesC, approach to generation,and (d) .the.
P, erli,n GPSG elrort of Buser0an and|tauenschild (1988),in wbich GPSG (Gazdar, el.
al.1985) is adapted for iniplemenlation purpos.es !o allowfeasible rule specifica!.i(~,n a d sectuendng.
;}The purpose of this papei- is t'o.
suggest rial for futurework in operat ional  b,.
'-dir e0.ion al fbrmalisms,approaches combining a high degreeof 16xicalis:m withsome form of GPSGqnspired I I)/LP phrfitioning ofinformation appear especially promising.
Someformalisms with these cbaracte,'istics are Ihe head-drivengrammars liPS(} (Pollard and Sa,g .1987), arid SlotGrammar (McCord !989a),.
The latter is curre~~tly usedin the machine translatiot!,.,~y.sl:em, I/MT-2 (McCordtOg9b), \[)tll for parshlg only, Aspects of Slot Grammarwill be used to illu.si, rate the discussion, which is in tburparis, gee'lion 2 discusses the.
relatior~ship, 6f a stronglexical conlponent o bl-dlt~ecfionality: " Section 3 dis-cusses the' difliculties of" obtaining realistic bi-directionalgrammars without an ID/I,P separation, Section 4 dis-cusses ways in whichbead driven grammars', ' in partic-ular~ ,Slot Grammar, avoid these difficulties.
Finally,section 5 discusses ome .proposed extensiot~s of SlotGrammar to ill~lstrate, a possible organi, zation of infor-mation ff, r a bead-drivenbi-di!~ecti'?n~ll st:atom.at', .
- ; I L ~ !2.
Lexicalism and Bi-DirectionalityProbably the majority of' contemporary grammars placecor~siderable,information i n :the..
lexicml..This is espe-cially important in a N-directional, coptext .because itallows direction-fi'ee statements of: .
?
.
,  / .
.
.
t .
, ;Semantic represenlati0ns of concepts m3d their asso-ciated modifiers , ?
.
.- - .
.~ AlternaJJve ways in which those semantic represent-'ations can be: realized in .terms o f  alternativeexpression of depertdents, on a syntaclic level.
Tlfisincludes identification or pro-lbrma elements suchas'required prep0sitions Cw;alt FOR John'), and, entire'pro-forum comiSlerhents, uch as "a hand" in:'gDe a hand"~ and f ixed '~pos\ [ t ion  inlbrmation fornon-compositional and frozen compounds., U, nification-oriented mappings between flm'~emanticand syntax-tie represt-;nl~ation's.. ' .
.
.
.?
l.exical, transformations originating in I.F'G{BtTesnan 1982) for .ch.a!~ges hi ..lexical form(passivizatipn) and category (e.g., n ominallzation ),als Well as 'alternative realizations of some concepts,' fbr  example, those allowed' via' "raising" and"clefl.ing".
,. '
' 'I.exicons incorporating various cornbhmtions of theseteat.ures are use d .in most of' I!\]e bl-directional systemsmentioned in Section I.
Also, 1,ancef et al (1988)claim that significant bVdifectionality is obtained in t.lleSAG\[~ system solely through the u~e of Such lexicons,with differqnt syntactic compone'nts use~l'in' the twoprocessing directions .
.
.
.
.3.
Hnverting Non-ID/LP GrammarsObtaining realistic bi-directiondlformulati0n,; in gram-mars not liavi \]g an ID/LP partitioning of" information is.problematical, because extending, theh" 0rdering pro-visions to deal not.
only with syntactic orrectness butalso with semantic and textual factors exacerbates anaheady dillicull situatiorl with .regard to ordering in suchgrammars.
tTo justit}?
this statement, we look first, at current trendsin non-ll)/1.P grammars, and then at necessary exten-S\ ]0t" ;S ,294,3,1 Trends in Non-ID/LP GrammarsIn some contemporary versions of paradigms whosebasic rules were originally intended to subsume both"l l)" and "LP" information, infbrmation is reorganizedso the information expressed by the basic rules is quitelimited, and additions are needed to express theremainder.
The fundamental cause of the modificationsis the need to effectively accornmodate he relatively fi'eeorderings in clause constittmnts of many languages.Thus, fbr example, in augmented phrase structure gram-mars (APSGs), which include definite clause grammars,it is inconvenient |o specify each legal dependentordering by a separale phrase structure rule.
Instead, asdiscussed by Jensen (1987), it is more convenient tol;,)cus on binary rules, combining a node containing ahead with one of its modifiers, e.g.,VPO -> VP\] hiP; VPO -> VPl PP; etc,tJsing lhese binary forms, tile phrase structure portion ofthe rules indicate not much more than the side of a headon wMch a modifier may occur.
The "augmental.ions"have a number of responsibilities.
They must indicaleordering constraints among siblings in terms of fe, aturesrecording subl.ree "states" (i.e., to Ihe exlent thai suchslates are nol implied by lhe category names).
Also,explicit facilities are needed fbr sh'ucture building toavoid separale nodes tot each rule applied.
1 lrinally, iftlle rules are used in combination with a lexicat orien-lation, since modifiers are indicated in phrase structurerules by general category (e.g., NP), augmenlations mustlocale and speci\[}7 tire relationship hetween the modifiercategory and the specific modifier expressed type (e.g.,an expected complement).'
lhe resull of this (necessary) movement of fimctionaway Iiom I:he basic rules of the paradigm is a tendencytoward somewhat laborious, redundant speciticalion.
"l'o illustrale lhe kind of redundancy inw)lved, we cowsh'uct an AI"SG style bina:y rtfle for allachment of indi-rect objects.
"the example assumes a lexicon identil}'ing potentialrnodifiers of a head by frarnes, which, by unification,map between syntactic and semantic representations of'those modifiers.
To allow lbr ordering provisions, modi-licr fi'arnes \]rave associated labels, such as "indobj".
Wealso assume that semantic representations of dependentsirmlude valency numbers for complemenls.
To avoid thedevelopment of two examples, we also ensure that therule is bi-directionally applicable.Vl:O -> VPl hipchoosemodifier (VPO,VPI,NP, indobj, M, H1)eunify (VPO,VPI, (hasobj ,modif iers))uHify(VP1.hasobj, " -" )uni on (M,gl, 11)tmify(VPO.modifiers, N)ur i i fy(VPl .modi f iers ,  Ml);This rule can be understood bi-direcfionally, if' weassume tllat both the interpreter and "choosemodifier"are directlon-sensitive.
In parsing the interpreter finds aconstituent unlI)ing with (cat = vp) adjacent to one uni-fying with (cat = rip) and instantiates an almost emptyconstituent VP0 (cat = vp).
"Choosemodifier" thenchecks the lexicon to see if the head of VPI expects amodifier with label "indobj" whose syntactic subframeunifies with the constituent NP, and whose valencynumber is not yet tbund as a modifier in VPl.
If so, itreturns the result of the full unification as M, and thecurrent value of VP1 .modifiers as M 1.
"Eunify ~ destructively unifies two structures except forfile listed attributes.
This serves in parsing to projecthead featnres upward.
In parsing lhe next "unify" func-tion ensures t\]Jat a direct object has not yet beenincluded in VPl.
The remainder of the rule, in parsing,creates the dependent list for VP(I by expanding that ofVPI to include the indirect object.Similar rules could be constructed for less strictlyordered complements, and for adjuncts.These operations have considerable inherent redundancyeven though much flmction is abstracted out within"choosemodifier".
The "choosemodifier" operationoccurs in all complement attachment rules.
Featureprojection and structure building occur in all rules.lqnally, the actual precedence rt, le aspects can beexpressed more perspicuously than via feature statetesting.
Looking ahead slightly, one way of" summa-rizing the situation is to say that when a grammarparadigm which originally combines qD" and "LWresorts to binary rules, especially in the presence of alexical focus, the grammar becomes, to a hu'ge extent, ahead-driven grammar, without the ability to lake fillladvantage of the facloriug opportunities atlbrded.3.2 Extensions for Bi-.DirectionalitySo far we have covered somewhat old ground.
Why arethese modified approaches especially problematic in abi-dircctional context?
Because there one is laced withan unpleasant choice between probably untenable com-plexity and unnecessary generation.To justil) lhis claim, we return to the rule illustrated insection 3.1, first examining ils assumed operation in agenerative direction.In generation the interpreter instantiates almost emptyconstituents VPI and NP.
"Choosemodifier" thenaU.empts to find an expected modifier frame for the headof VP0 with the given label whose semanlJc subfi'ame(containing a valency number) unifies with one of theactual modifiers (VP0.modifiers) of VP0, and whose syn-tactic subfi'ame unifies with NP, returns the result as M,and the remainder of the modifiers as M1, etc.1 Similar tendencies are observed in contemporary categorial grammars.
For example, Yoo and Lee (1988) use "quo-tient" categories which speciI) unordered sets of possible arguments, togelher with separate 1.t 7 rules.
Bes andGardent (1989) also use sels within categories, together with order features to constrain adjacency.2 295But such rules do not really satisfy tire requirements o\["generation.
They describe syntactically correct struc-tures but specify no ordering constraints and preferencesrelating to either semantic onsiderations (e.g., requiredorderings of adjective types in English, and conventionalorderings of verb modifiers) or to textual considerationssuch as topic and locus.
In parsing such provisions areneeded to detect extual features, and in generation theym'e needed to use textual features to determine ordering.if these provisions were added, the "feature testing"aspects relating to ordering would become considerablymore complicated, if expressible at all.
This is becausedetecting and using textual considerations seems toinvolve taking irrto account he entire complex of" modi-tiers tbr a head, which is extremely awkward in terms ofbinary phrase structure rules.llajicova (1989) describes topic/focus determinationconditions for both English and Czech; they involve bothsemantic role information and complex sibling relation-ships.
If those conditions were expressed in tile contextof binary rules, it seems that a rule such asVP\[~ -> VPl xin the parse would have the responsibility of assigning xto "lbcus" if there has been a break to the left of x in theconwmtional ordering of dependent roles (for Czech),and irrdeterminate otherwise (until ffu'ther dependentsare found).
In generation the rule might be licensed at astage in generation where x is either (a) part of the topic,and VP0 contains only topic dependents, or (b) part ofthe tbcus and ranks highest of the dependents in VP0 inthe systemic order'.
(Topic/focus identification criteriafor \[:.nglish are also considered by I lajicova, and aremore complicated).So adding textual provisions to phrase structure ruleswould pose a considerable challenge.
Simply put,attaching dependents o heads one at a time is a conven-ient approach in parsing, but detaching them one at atime is not a convenient approach for generation.On the other hand, if textual provisions are omittedfrom the grammar, then generation would produce allsyntactically legitimate sentences.
One would then useadditional rule sets to select among all the generatedutterances based on semantic and textually based prefer-cnces2 (And rules are also need to detect textual fea-tures during analysis.)4.
Head Driven Grammars and SlotGrammarl lead driven grammars which combine a lexical focuswith a strict ID/LP partitioning avoid the problemsdescribed above.
We use Slot Grammar as an example.Ttle lexicon formulation of Slot Grammar is interestingin that it identifies dependents, both complements andadjuncts, by "slotnames", a device originating in earlierwork by McCord (1980).
The (alternative) sh'uctureswhich can be used to realize those slots are Ihctored outinto separate "filler rules".
These rules contain condi-tions on both prospective fillers and associated heads.They can thus be used to constrain/adjust features of theconstituents under consideration, e.g., to instantiateagreernent.
In other words, Ihey can be used to expressmany 11) constraints.The basic linear precedence conditions of Slot Grammarare expressed by two types of rules.
"Head/Slot" rulesindicate tile sides of the head on which a particular"slot" may appear.
These rules are conditional in termsof unifiers for both head and slot filler.
"Slot/slot" rulesindicate, again conditionally, precedence rules amongslots on the same side of a head.Organizing infbrmation in tiffs way allows the elimi-nation of the explicit: specification of many aspects of therule shown in section 3.1 :1.
Association of "categories" with complements andadjuncts is eliminaled - ordering is stated in termsof slots rather than the more general syntactic ate-gories.2.
"ChoosemodiIier" becomes lhe basic, built-incontrol operation of the parser, and need not beexpressed explicitly3.
Struchn-e building operations are, to a large extent,implicit.
Only variations in feature projection, etctreed be expressed explicitly.The remainder of tire information in the rule isexpressed by two short rules, one whlch indicates thatindirect objects thll on the right sides of beads, and theother that they precede dh'ect objeds.The revised organization o1' information also providesthe basis fbr dealing with semantic and textually corrdi-tioned ordering requirements without either undue com-plexity or exhaustive generation.
This is because theinherent modularity allows the use of different controlschemes for parsing and generation.
In parsing thecontrol scheme can be ~attach one dependent at a time",using immediate dominance rules and basic linear pre-cedence constraints together.
In generation the controlscheme can be altered to first generate sets of depen-dent& using just immediate dominance rules, and then2 There have been efforts to combine textual considerations with non-i l ) / l ,P grammars.
For example, Uszkoreit(1998) uses exhaustive numeration of alternative modifier orderings, irmluding complements and adjuncts, withselection among alternatives made by a focus feature.
However, in parsing, the suggestion must somehow "collapse"to a set-oriented approach, using the enumerated alternatives as a kind of LP rule.
Also, as implied by the results ofltajicova (1989), and explicitly argued by Hauenschild (1988), these provisions are not sufiqdent.296 3ordering them using both basic precedence constraintsand preference-oriented ones.5.
Current DirectionRecapitulaling, bi-direetional grammar effbrts combininglexicalism with an ID/LP separation seem most prom-ising because1.
A lexical lbcus in itself provides a great deal of bi-directional facility.2.
In current grammars based on non- l l ) /LPparadigms, linear precedence constraints governingsyntactic orrectness are expressed by constraints onfeatures of one node of a binary rule.
F, xtendingthis approach to deal with preferential ordering is atbest extremely complex, and possibly infeasible, butthe alternative seems to be exhaustive generationfollowed by filtering.3.
In contrast, the modularity provided by an ID/LPseparation allows rules to be applied in differentcombinations in parsing and generation.In the work underlying tiffs paper, a multi-lingualmachine translation project, a bi-directional grmnmarformalism is being developed inspired by Slot Grammar,but with modifications including:1. adding a fully reversible morphological componentin the lexicon2.
expanding the lexical provisions to include explicitbi-direelJonal mappings between syntactic and moreabstract representations3.
revising the notation to facilitate reversibility.4.
using a slotname type-lattice to simplil) theexpression of generalizations.5.
adding preferential precedence rules dealing withsemanlic and textual considerations.
The preferen-tial ordering rules are used in the analysis phase todetect extual features, and are applied after a post-parse disambiguation analysis (based on a heuristicsearch algorithm described in (Newman 1988)).
Ingeneration, however, the pretbrential ordering rulesare applied together with those expressing absoluteordering constraints.A preliminary descriplion of these provisions has beendocumented (Newman, to appear).
The preferentialprecedence rules are of two kinds: one kind relates tothe association ot" dependenls with "zones" of a constit-uent (e.g., pre-subject, pre-finite,...), and the other kinddeals with their ordering within zones.
Zones are usedbecause some aspects of dependent ordering are mostconveniently described in those terms, as discussed byQuirk et al(1972), Uszkorelt (1988) and others.
3 Zoneassociation rules express the preferences of certain typesof modifiers for certain zones, and also variations inthese preferences due to textual considerations.
Thesepreferences must bE balanced, by heuristics, against theneeds of other modifiers and the constraints imposed bythe zones themselves.
Optimal ways of stating and usingthese preferences represents a major lbcus of our currentwork.,1.References.lies, G.G., (?ardent, C. "French Order WithoutOrder", Proc.
4th Conf.
of European Chapter of"ACL (1989), 249-2552.
Buseman S., l lauenschild C. "A Constructive Viewof GPSG or How to Make It Work", I'rocCOLING 88, 77-823.
Caraceni, R., O.
Stock, "Reversing a LexicallyBased Parser for GEnEration," Applied ArtificialIntelligence, vol.
2, \ ] /2 (1988) 149-744.
Dymetman M., lsabelle, P. "Reversible LogicGrammars for Machine Translation", Pro(: 2ndInt'l Conf on Theoretical and Methodological Issuesin the Machine Translation of Natural Languages(1988)5.
Gazdar, G., E. Klein, G. Pullum, I.
Sag., General-ized Phrase Structure Grammar, Basil Blackwell(1985)6. l lajicova E. "A l)ependency-Based Parser tbrTopic and Focus ~, Proe.
Intn'l Workshop onParsing 7?ehnologies (1989) 448-4577. llauenschild C. "GPSG and German Word Order",in U.Reyle, C. Rohrer, eds., Natural LanguageParsing and Linguistic Theories,Reidel (1988).411-4318.
Jensen, K. "Binary Rules and Non-binary Trees", inA.
Manaster-Ramer (ed.
), Mathematics qf Lan-guage, John Benjamins (1987)9.
Kasper, R. T. "An Experimental Parser forSystemic Grammars", Proe COLING 88, 309-31210.
Kartunnen !,., "Radical l~exicalisnC, CSI,I ReportCS1,\[-86-68 (1986)11.
1,ancel, J-M, Otani M., Simonin N., Danlos I,,"SAGE: A Sentence Parsing and GeneralionSystem", Proe COLING 88, 359-36412.
McCord, M.C., "Slot Grammars", Computationa/Linguistics, vol 6, 31-43 (1980)13.
McCord, M.C.
"A New Version of Slot Grammar",IBM Research Report RC: 14506 (1989a)14.
McCord, M.C.
~A New Version of the MachineTranslation System I,MT", IBM Research ReportRC 14710 (1989b), to appear in Proe.
InternationalSeienHfie Symposium on Natural I.anguage andLogic, Springer Lecture Noles in ComputEr Science15.
Newman, P. "Combinatorial Disambiguation%Proe.
ACL Conf.
on Applied NLP (1988)16.
Newman, P. "Symmetric Slot Grammar", to appearin Proe 3rd Intn'l Conf on 7'heoretieal andMethodological Issues in Machine 7>anslation ofNatural Languages June 19903 It might be noted that to allow meaningfld use of zones, the syntactic structures used in the design are very fiat.Fronting is not viewed, as in most current approaches, as an example of Iongodistance dependency.
Rather, tosimplify the statement of zone-allocation and other ordering rules, dependents assigned to different zones are siblingsand, as in Kartunnen (1986), auxiliaries are adjunct-like.4 29717.
Pollard, C. and 1.
Sag, Information-based Syntaxand Semantics Vol.
1, CSLI (1987)18.
Quirk, R., S. Greenbaum, G. l.eech, J. Svavtuik, AGrammar (if Contemporary l;.
'nglish Longman(I 972)19.
Uszkoreit, I|.
Linear Precedence in D&eontinuousConstituents."
Complex Fronting in German.
CSLIResearch Report CSI,!-86-47 (1988).20.
Yoo S., I,ee, K. "Extended Categorial Gramma(,CSI,I Report CSL1-88-121 (1988)298 5
