A Machine Translation System for the Target Language InexpertXiuming HuangDepartment  of Computer  ScienceMelbourne UniversityParkvil le, Vic.
3052Australia*xiuming@trlamct.tr l .oz.au1 Introduct ionAlmost all commercial machine translation(MT) systems to date are designed for multi-lingual users, normally with post-editing facil-ities (Melby, 1987).
To cater for the needs ofusers not skilled in either the source language orthe target language an MT system must providefacilities for the user to check into the quality ofthe translation, without knowing the foreign lan-guage.
In this note two presumptions are made:first, we discuss only translation from the user'snative language into a foreign language (or "exoport translation"); second, we will restrict thequality checking to accuracy checking only, leav-ing style considerations a ide.In the following sections we will first dis-cuss approaches to assuring correct translation,and then describe the selective confirmation ap-proach adopted in our MT system.2 Approaches to AssuringCorrect Translation2.1 Back  Trans la t ionThe seemingly most natural way of finding outwhether the translation into the target language(henceforth forward translation) is correct is totranslate the forward translation back into thesource language (back translation).
This ap-proach can indeed expose the wrong forwardtranslations if the back translations differ signif-icantly from the original, but is has its complex-ities and is not reliable.
An MT system may ei-ther employ grammars designed to be reversible,i.e., to be used for both generation and analy-*Current address: AI Systems Section, 'felecom Ke-search Laboratories, 770 Blackburn Rd, Clayton 3168,Australiasis, or employ separate grammars for generationand analysis.
In the former case, theoreticallywhatever the forward translations are, the backtranslation will always produce sentences in thesource language that are very close, if not iden-tical, to the original.
As a result we have no wayto tell whether the forward translation is corrector not.If the back translation is done in a systemwhere separate grammars are used for generationand analysis, then the back translation itself maybe incorrect inasmuch as the forward translationmight be, so that a corT~ect forward translationmay be wrongly translated back, or vice versa.In either case there is no guarantee of accuracy.2.2 Paraphras ingIn this approach, the system generates para-phrase(s) for the original sentence, based uponthe syntactic and semantic analysis result, beforepassing it for further processing (by the transferand/or generation component).
The user checksthe paraphrase and gives the system directivesby either confirming or rejecting it.
For exam-ple, for the input sentence(la) The man saw the woman in the park withthe telescope.the system might produce the following para-phrase for the user to check:(lb) With the telescope, the man saw thewoman who was in the park.The problem with the paraphrasing approachis that the recovery may come in late, after aconsiderable amount of time is spent doing allthe syntactic and semantic analysis required forgenerating the paraphrase.
If the input sentenceis tong and complex the cost can be high.
Fur-thermore, it may not be unusual that only afterseveral trials the user finally accepts an appro--364 ipriate :paraphrase, with all the previous effortswasted.2.3 P re -ed i t ingThis is the approach adopted by many comrner-ciM MT systems (very often paired with post-editing).
It requires the user to edit the inputsentences before they are passed to the systemfor analysis and subsequent processing.
Tile ma-chine has a predefined translation capacity whichmust be known to the use:' so that anything inthe text which may cause difficulties to the sys-tem will be removed or rewritten.
For example,for the following sentence(2a) The woman cannot bear children.if the u';er knows the system would have difficul-ties resolving the ambiguous word "bear", s/hecan rewrite the sentence as follows (if ttlat iswhat s/he wants to say):(2b) The woman cannot give birth to children.To apply pre-editing, a set of rules must firstbe devi,;ed to set up lexicat and structural con-straints, then the user must keep the rules inmind and apply them consistently.
This mayinvolve expensive training of system users andimpose strong restrictions on the system use inpractice.2.4 In teract ive  D isamblguat ionInteractive disambiguation can take place at twolevels.
At the lexical level, whenever an ambigu-ous word is encountered, the user can be asked tohelp.
(Carbonell and Tornita, 1987) gives an ex-ample of reso!ving word-sense ambiguity in thisapproach:The word "pen" means:1) a writing pen2) a play penN UMBER ?>The problem with this approach is, given thatany natural language is highly polysemous, thefrequent occurrence of ambiguity at tile lexicallevel will unnecessarily prolong the translationprocess a~d easily bore the user.
Moreover, withlexical items with many different senses, it maybecome very difficult to pinpoint one in particu-lar from a screenful of choices.At the structural level, ambiguities can also bereferred to the user for disam.biguation~ as is donein Ntran, an English-to-Japanese prototype MTsystem for monolingual users (Wood and Chan-dler, 1988).
For the sentence(3) The cursor corresponds to the puck posi~tion on the tablet.Ntran asks the user to choose either 1 or 2 fromthe following:1 on is location of position2 on is location of co~espond(here "on" represents "on the tablet".)
Theuser must be more or less familiar with linguis-tics to make correct choices.
This may inconve-nience some users; but the more severe problemis that the number of possible interpretations ofan ambiguous tructure can reach the hundreds(Church and Pall1, 1982), making their handlingvery difficult.3 Se lec t ive  Conf i rmat ionThe basic idea behind our approach, describedin this section, is to let the machine do most ofthe work without human interference, and onlyat certain decision making points ask for humanassistance.
We choose phrases as the level foruser confirmation because at this level tile sys-tem both avoids frequent and unintelligent ques-tioning of the user (as is the case with the in-teractive disambignation approach at the lexicMlevel) and does not suffer from late recovery (as isthe case with the paraphrase strategy).
As anexample, let us consider the following sentence.
(4) The tMented conductor dated a young star.The system does not ask for the user's helpthe first time it sees the word "conductor", butwMts tili the analysis of the NP with "conduc-tor" as its head is complete just before the treerepresentation is built.
At this point it asks:Does "conductor" here mean "an official on abus or" train or tram who collects fares"?
(y/n)tIere the system selected one of the "humanbeing" senses of the word "conductor" as a resultof carrying out semantic matches of the modifier"talented" and the head noun (a tram conductorcan certainly be talented).
The order of select-ing the "bus conductor" sense vs. the "orchestraconductor" one is arbitrary, though with moredomain information and statisticM considerationpreference can be given to one over the other.
Ifthe user answers "no" the system backtracks tofind another "human being" interpretation oftheword:Does "conductor" here mean "a person whoconducts an orchestra" ?
(y/n)The answer from the user at this point is likelyto be "yes".
If, however, the user insists on2 365"no" the system will relax the semantic con-straints (Huang, 1988) and accepts the "sub-stance" sense of the word, treating "talented"as used metaphorically.Suppose the user has chosen the "orchestraconductor" sense.
The system continues theparsing to process the finite verb "dated" andupon the completion of subject-verb match fordeciding a proper sense for the verb which suitsthe selected sense for "conductor", it asks theuser to confirm its choice:Does "date" here mean "to go out on dateswith"?
(y/n)If the user answers "yes" the systems carrieson to find an interpretation for the object NP,using the chosen sense of "date" to help disam-biguate "star":Does "star" here mean '% celebrity"?
(y/n)Similar to the confirmations described above,when prepositional phrases are processed confir-mation is carried out after the semantic matcheshave resolved the attachment ambiguity of thePPs.
Confirmations would also be needed atpoints where semantic matches are carried outto resolve the coordinate conjunction ambiguity,such as contained in the phrase "the man and thewoman with an umbrella" ("\[the man\] and \[thewoman with an umbrella\]" vs. "\[the man andthe woman\] with an umbrella") 1 (I-Iuang, 1983).An important consideration in designing theinteractive system is the number of questionsasked of the user.
The less questions asked, themore productive the system will be, and the lessbored the user will become.Ideally the system should be intelligent enoughnot to ask for confirmation about the word"dated" when processing(5) ANU dated the world's oldest rock.or(6) Ann dated the department's oldest profes-sor.Whereas if the input sentence is(7) Ann dated the town's oldest coach.the user may not feel it unreasonable if the sys-tem asks him/her to confirm the disambigua-tion of "dated", "oldest", and "coach".
Whatmakes difference here is the so called "gen-uine" ambiguity (sentences for which more than1At this stage only confirmations involving NPs, NP-Verb pairs and Verb-Np pairs are implemented, althoughin the automatic version of the system all semanticmatches have been executed ((Huang, 1987) and (Wilkset ~1., 198~)).one interpretation is meaningful): sentences (5)and (6) should have only one valid interpre-tation each according to our common knowl-edge even though when standing in isolation theword "dated" is ambiguous, whereas entence (7)might have two meaningful readings.If user confirmation is required only for sen-tences containing enuine ambiguity, the systemwill become much more efficient, without en-dangering the quality of the translation.
Butto decide when a word or a structure is "gen-uinely" ambiguous may involve more computingresources than is worthwhile employing.
Firstof all it has to exhaust he whole search space,both syntactic and semantic, to find out whethermore than one meaningful interpretation exists,despite the fact that often the first such inter-pretation might well be the only one.
Secondlyit can be very tricky to draw a clear line between"meaningful" and "meaningless" interpretations.For example, the sentence(8) John cannot bear children.might be judged as not "genuinely" ambiguousbecause common sense dictates that since John isa male (based on world knowledge of names), it isimpossible for him to give birth to children, andtherefore "bear" can have only the interpretation"to tolerate" in this context.
But then if you tellyour granddaughter "Joim cannot bear childrenbecause he is a male", you are using "bear" inthe other sense, although "tolerate" i,~ still anacceptable interpretation for %ear".For this reason at the current stage we havenot attempted at singling out genuinely ambigu-ous sentences but instead we employ certain do-main information and statistical considerationin arranging the system's lexicon, so that forsentence (4) ("The talented conductor dated ayoung star.")
it may well be the case that theuser need only answer "yes" once to each of thequestions the system asks.
The worst case iswhen the intended meaning of the sentence is"abnormal" or metaphorical, for example whenit is meant for sentence (4) to be interpreted as"the talented tram conductor ascertained the ageof a new celestial object".
In such cases the userwill have to answer the system's questions ev-eral times over the same word.With richer knowledge bases and more power-ful inference ngines and computing facilities itmay become practical to first recognize genuinelyambiguous entences and then to assign scores todifferent interpretations of such sentences, and fi-366 3nally present hem to the user ibr confirmationin the order of their scores.ReferencesCarbonell, J. and Tomita, M.(1987).
Knowledge-based machine transla-tion, the c~u approach.
Machine Transla-tion: Theoretical and Methodological Issues,pages 68-89.Church, K. and Patil, 1L (1982).
Coping withsyntactic ambiguity or how to put the blockhi the box on the table.
Technical ReportMIT/L CS/TM-216.Huang, X.oM.
(1983).
Dealing with conjunc-tions in a machine translation environment.Proceedings of the 1st Meeting of the Euro-pean Chapter of the Association for Compu-tlational Linguistics, pages 81-85.Huang, X.-M. (1987).
XTRA: The design andimplementation of a fully automatic ma-chine translation system.
Unpublished Ph.D.thesis.
Also as Memorandum in Computerand Cognitive Science, MCCS-88-121, Com-puting l~.esearch Lab, New Mexico StateUniversity, Las Cruces.Huang, X.-M. (1988).
Semantic analysis inXTKA~ an  English - chinese machine trans=lation system.
Computers and Translation,3(2):101-120.Melby~ A.
(1987).
On human-machine interac-tion in translation.
In Nirenburg, S., edi-tor, Machine Translation: Theoretical andMethodological Issues, pages 145-154.
Cam-bridge: Cambridge University Press.Wilks, Y., Huang, X.-M., and Fass, D. (1985).Syntax, prei'erence and right attachment.Proceedings of IJCAI85 (1985 InternationalJoint Conf.
on Artificial Intelligence), pages779-784.Wood, M. M. and Chandler, B.
(1988).
Machinetranslation for monollnguals.
Proceedings ofCOLING88, pages 760-763.4 367
