DEMONSTRATION OF GENESYS:A VERY LARGE, SEMANTICALLY BASED SYSTEMIC FUNCTIONAL GENERATORRobin P. Fawcett and Gordon H. TuckerComputational Linguistics UnitUniversity of Wales College of Cardiffe-mail: fawcett@uk.ac.cardiff, tuckerg@uk.ac.cardiffThis paper provides background material to the demonstration tbe given at COLING '90 of the GENESYS component of theCOMMUNAL system.
A presenter ofsuch a demonstration shouldsay (1) what he system isgood for; (2) why it is good for it; and(3) what makes itdifferent from alternative systems.
The system tobe demonstrated is just a part (though the single most importantpart) of a much more complex system, and some of the answers tothe questions must be related to the overall system.
So I shalldescribe that first, and then the generator itself.1.
The COMMUNAL ProjectThe acronym COMMUNAL stands for COnvivial Man-Machine Understanding through NAtural Language.The long-term goal of the project is to contribute to thedevelopment of systems that will enable computationallynaive people to interact naturally ('convivially') with theIntelligent Knowledge Based Systems (IKBSs) that weshould expect a decade ahead.
The reason why itpromises well is that it is a holistic, integratedapproach, built around a strong, rich theory of naturallanguage in social interaction (Halliday's systemicfunctional grammar (SFG).
The concept of choicebetween meanings, which lies at the heart of the model,fits particularly naturally with the concept of planning,and this is probably why so many successful models ofgeneration have drawn, either explicitly or implicitly, onSFG.
Some of the differences from a well-known sisterproject (Penman) will be mentioned below.The project is based at the University of Wales College of Cardiffand the University of Leeds, with financial support coming fromRSRE Malvern and industry.
Phase 1 ran from 1987-89, and themain funding has now been secured for Phase 2, which runs 1990-93 (with further negotiations i  progress to enhance this).In a young field such as natural language processing(NLP) it is important to develop alternative approaches.Tile COMMUNAL Project is based on a number ofprinciples, some of which are different from themainstream assumptions, with some being explicitlyinnovative.
These principles include the following:(1) The way in which 'knowledge' (or, preferably,'belief') is organized should be influenced by the way inwhich language is modelled, rather than vice versa;(2) Priority in the system is given to the generator,with the parser and semantic interpreter being derivedfrom the generator;(3) The organization of the grammar in thegenerator gives priority to paradigmatic (i.e.
systemic)relations rather than to syntagmatic (i.e.
structural)relations, and to the level of semantics (or functions, inHalliday's broad sense of the term), rather than to form(syntax, etc): i.e.
it is a systemic functional grammar;(4) The meanings of iexicai tems (i.e.
vocabulary)are modelled in the same way as the meanings ofsyntax, i.e.
in system networks; there is therefore noseparate 'lexicon' (though a word list is available to theparser).
(5) To develop a full model of generation, it isnecessary to model generation in the framework ofsocial interaction, and not only monologue.
(6) Attention is given to the paradigmatic systemsand syntagmatic structures of discourse (as well assentences).
(7) Strong emphasis is placed on the semanticgeneration of intonation (as well as punctuation), thusgenerating an output ready for speech synthesis.For a fuller overview of the principles underlying theproject, see Fawcett 1986 and 1988; for the particularversion of SFG around which the project is built seeFawcett 1980, 1987 and to appear b.
)The project has three sub-teams, each of whom works closely withthe others.
In Phase 1 these worked on: (1) language generation(at Cardiff: Fawcett, Tucker and Wright, assisted part-time by Tenchand Young); (2) language parsing and understanding (at Leeds:Atwell (part time, the Leeds team leader), Souter andO'Donoghue); and (3) beliefs, inferencing and planning (at Cardiff:Wright and, part time, Atkinson).
Thus, while the project has afirm linguistic base in NLP, it already encompasses, in a smallmeasure, other central aspects of artificial intelligence (AI), andthese will be greatly extended inPhase 2.Note that COMMUNAL is an interactive system,rather than one that only generates monologue.
Inoutline, the major components of the overall model are:1.
The parser.2.
The semantic interpreter.3.
The belief system, which includes general andspecific beliefs about ('knowledge of') situations andthings in some domain (currently, personnelmanagement in a large organization); specific beliefsabout the content of the preceding discourse, aboutvarious aspects of the current social situation, about headdressee(s) and their beliefs of all types, theirattitudes, and their goals and plans.4.
The planner, which makes general plans,drawing on knowledge of:(a) genres (scripts, schemas, etc), introducingwhere appropriate sub-units uch as transactions (seebelow) and more detailed plans, using(b) the local discourse grammar, which ismodelled as a 'systemic flowchart' (i.e.
a flowchartcontaining many small system networks at the choicepoints, and which generates exchanges and theirstructure),5. the lexicogrammar, i.e.
the sentence generator(see below).There were four main achievements in Phase 1.
The filet was thesize and scope of the generator.
Its two main sub-components arethe system networks, which are described more fully in the nextsection.
The second achievement was to build a large probabilistkparser.
The Realistic Annealing Parser (the RAP) parses any1 47output from GENESYS on the basis of co-occurrence probabilities.In Phase 2 we shall also build a non-probabilistic parser, with theintention of incorporating the advantages of both in the finalsystem.
The third major achievement relates to the semanticinterpreter.
It has been a long-standing oal in NLP to build alarge scale system that uses the same grammar to either generateor interpret a sentence.
(Many current systems use a differentgrammar for each process.)
We are developing at Leeds aninterpreter which, roughly speaking, runs the realization rules inreverse, drawing where appropriate on the system networks.
Thiscomponent (which is called REVELATION because it reveals the'meaning' from the 'wording') depends on the generator being builtin such a 'way that this is IX)Ssible; this will be refined and reportedon fully :in Phase 2.
The final achievement is that small butprincipled mini-components were built for an exemplar situation todemonstrate the passage of information through the whole system;these will be considerably developed uring Phase 2.2.
The sentence generator: GENESYSThe generator is called GENESYS, because itGENErates SYStemically, i.e.
by using a systemicfunctional grammar.
It is a lexicogrammar (to use theterm of Halliday, the chief architect of the theory),because it generates from one unified semanticcomponent both grammar (in the sense of syntax andgrammatical items) and lexieal items - as well aspunctuation or intonation, as required.
Its two mainsubcomponents are:(a) The system networks.
These are complexnetworks of choices between a wide variety of types ofsemantic features.
Some denote situations and arerealized in the clause.
Types of meaning coveredinclude theme and information structure as well astransitivity, mood, negativity, modality, affectivemeaning and logical relationships.
There areequivalent system networks for the semantics of thingsand qualities.
(b) The realization rules, which turn the selectionexpressions (or 'bundles') of semantic features that arethe output from passes through the system networksinto quite relatively richly labelled syntactic structures -and into the entities at their terminal nodes, i.e.
items(grammatical nd lexical) and markers of punctuationor intonation.
(For those unfamiliar with systemicgrammars, it would help to see a demonstration; seealso Tucker 1989.
)Here are a few facts to give you a perspective on GENESYS at theend of Phase 1.
McDonald, Vaughan and Pustejovsky (1987:179),referring to a well-known NLP project at the University of S.California which also uses SFG, say:.
'Nigel, Penman's grammar ....is the largest systemic grammar and possibly the largest machinegrammar of any kind.'
Although GENESYS was developedindependently, it has in two years grown to be even larger thanNigel (using the criterion employed by Mann (the Director ofPenman till 1989) to characterise Nigel's size; see further below).
(Nigel reached its present size some years ago; it has not grown inthe interim because the team have been working on othercomponents of Penman).
The first point about GENESYS istherefore its size and scope.Areas of grammar covered so far include the following (usingtheory-neutral terminology possible, sometimes upplemented byspecifically systemic functional terms): complex structures realizedin any of eight different auxiliary verbal elements, most of whichcan co-occur in the same clause, realizing choices in MOOD,MODALITY, TENSE, ASPECT and VOICE, etc (including, as wellas the usual forms that are standard in all treatments, "used to","would" in its 'habit' sense, "be going to", "be about to"); an almostcomplete range of TRANSITIVITY types (defined in terms ofconfigurations of participant roles, including covert roles); threetypes of 'passive' construction; many types of verbCOMPLEMENTATION (including some 'extraposition'), finite andnon-finite, handled as embedded clauses and regarded as situationsthat 'fill' the Phenomenon; realizations of INFORMATIONSTRUCTURE in both punctuation and intonation; in MOOD bothpolar and Wh-questions (including multiple Wh-items in the sameclause); five types of potentially co-occurring TIME ADJUNCI~(including two types of frequency, and repetition); adjuncts ofPLACE AND MANNER; Adjuncts expressing a LOGICALRELATIONSHIP (e.g.
clauses with "because ...", "if", purposive "to..." ); marked THEMATIZATION of all non-SubjectPARTICIPANT ROLES (Complements) and of all types ofCIRCUMSTANTLM.
ROLES (realized in Adjuncts); the handlingof MANNER ADVERBS in the same network as ADJECHVES,with provision for COMPARATIVE and SUPERLATIVE meaningsand forms, both regular and all types of irregular forms; arepresentative range of TIME ADVERBS; a full range of irregularverbs and noun plurals; complex NOMINAL GROUPS withprovision for mass and count nouns, for NUMBER, forappropriately sequenced multiple pre-head MODIFIERS (whichmay themselves be filled by structures uch as "fairly rich"), forthree types of determiner selection, as in "five of the biggest ofthose apples", (i.e.
(a) selection by QUANTIFICATION, includingweak "one" and "a(n)", (b) selection by SUPERLATIVISATION,and (c) selection by one of three types of DEIXIS, realized in "the",demonstratives and possessives), and for post-head QUALIFIERSfilled by prepositional groups (with clauses as qualifiers (i.e.
'relativeclauses') currently being added); a full range of PRONOUNS(personal, possessive, demonstrative and indefinite) and PROPERNOUNS (names of individuals, with their own quite complexinternal grammar, names of social groups, names of places);complex genitive constructions, e.g.
"the new doctor's car's door";PREPOSITIONAL GROUPS, with a representative range ofPREPOSITIONS; a wide range of TEMPERING items for use withadjectives and adverbs (with embedded groups and clauses as in"bigger than him/it used to be" currently being covered); 'special'grammars of dates, addresses and human proper names; and muchelse.Examples of sentences that can be generated include:(1) I like being here.
(2) Ivy might have been going to be being looked at bythem, but she ran out of the room.
(3) The Director doesn't like it that the new managerwas about o leave because we didn't give him a biggeroffice.
(4) Some of the most unpleasant of that rather angryman's better friends are amazingly rich.
(5) I until next month/T/12 \] he will be living ateleven Romilly Crescent/T/21Canton/NT/1 I (i.e.with intonation marked for input to a speechsynthesizer, where "1" = fall and "2" = rise)Note that so far the system only provides principledmotivation for choosing between the semantic optionsfor only a small subset of the semantics.
The researchstrategy, as stated above, is first to model the fullrichness of the semantics and its realization,~.
Theseareas will be greatly extended in Phase 2.An important theoretical difference betweenGENESYS and Nigel is that the system networks inGENESYS are structured specifically to expresssemantic choices, while Nigel's are at the level oflexicogrammatical form (though reflecting'meaning', asalways in a systemic grammar).Let us attempt the difficult task of a comparison.
\]If, followingMann, we use the number of systems to characterise the grammar'ssize, we find that Nigel has a little under 400 systems (i.e.
'choicesbetween features') realized in grammar (Bateman, personalcommunication 1990), while GENESYS has about 600 (the greaternumber possibly reflecting the explicit semanticity of GENESYS).GENESYS also has hundreds of systems that generate vocabularythat are integrated into the lexicogrammar (as Halliday has alwayssuggested should be done).
In Nigel there is a separate lexicon(which was unfortunately necessary to meet a sponsor's researchcollaboration requirements with a more traditional approach),whereas in GENESYS the networks generate not only syntax andmorphology but also lexis, intonation and punctuation.
At the end48 2of Phase I GENESYS had a total of around 1,100 systems ofsemantic features.
In addition GENF~SYS has some 1,400realization rules, involving about 4,000 operations, and these appearto be more complex than those in Nigel.
This results in part fromthe semanticity of the networks, and in part from the complexity ofthe phenomena covered (See Tucker 1989 for an overview ofGENESYS at work.
)The above informal comparisons with the Nigel system illustrate thedifficulty of comparing even closely related grammars.
The fact isthat there are no agreed criteria for measuring rammars, and evenless are tlhere criteria for evaluating holistie models of language thathave (in addition to the usual areas of syntax and morphology),vocabulary, intonation and punctuation - and, in the case ofGENESYS, semantic networks that generate all of these.
Despitethe lack of agreed criteria it is clear that GENESYS is already oneof the largest of such models in existence.As Phase 2 gets under way, we are already increasing the model'scoverage.
By its end we expect o more than double the numberof grammatically realized systems, and so to be able to handlesomething approaching unrestricted syntax.
(We have plans toimplement certain novel possible solutions to some well-knownsyntactic problems, but even if all are successful with these therewill of course still be many problems that remain at the end ofPhase 2.)
The vocabulary in GENESYS should grow to 34,000word-senses (or possibly more if an ambitious planned procedure issuccessful), and it will have a near--complete coverage of bothpunctuation and intonation, the latter being a complex matterwhere there is little previous work to build on; for the generationof semantically motivated intonation see Fawcett 1990b.
GENF~SYSneeds .a special speech synthesizer to turn this into a phoneticoutput; we hope that there will be a sister project at UniversityCollege lxmdon to work with us on this.
Finally, GENESYSintroduces probabilities into the operation of the system networks;see Faweett (to appear a).GENF.SYS was developed using Poplog Prolog on a SUN 3/50,using a special tool for writing and testing grammars developed byWright (called DEFREI., because it defines relations).3.
Other future developmentsIn a complete model of generation we need, as well asa sentence generator, rich components for belief,inferencing and planning (which includes discourseplanning), as described in section 1.At present these components are much less well developed inCOMMUNAL than in some other projects, as is to be expected ina project that is explicitly 'language-led'.
But we do already havesmall but principled components that enable the system to acceptsample utterances from the parser and interpreter; to addappropriately to its beliefs; to draw inferences from a new belief;and to make an appropriate discourse plan as input to GENF~YS.
(Comparisons with Penman are even harder here, because Penmangenerates monologue, not dialogue.)
Phase 2 will develop thesecomponents further, exploring several new ideas.
The parsers andsemantic interpreter will also be developed further.There are many possible spin-off applications.One long-standing oal to which we hope to make a significantcontribution is what is known as text to speech.
This is the processof mechanically turning vo'itten text into natural-sounding speech.This mt~st include senmntieally motivated intonation, which issomething that has been handled inadequately so far in work ontext to speech, but which GENESYS has already made goodprogress in attending to in a principled way.
Other possible spin-off applications include interactive tutors for automated languagelearning (potentially achievable as an application because of thepossibility of using quite limited domains), the development ofmetrics of text complexity, and possible applications in the gamesindustry.
At the appropriate point we shall seek industrial interestin our original sponsors and in others for these (and no doubtother) possible applications.This project is still young (barely two years old, interms of actual research).
Many of the reports are stillconfidential to the partners, but papers referring to theproject are now beginning to appear (see thereferences).
As Phase 2 gets under way, COMMUNALis already becoming increasingly well known to therelevant research communities, both academic andindustrial.If you would like to visit the project, please contact us.The research reported here was supported by grants from RSREMalvern under contract no.
ER1/9/4/2181/23, by the UniversityResearch Council of International Computers Ltd, and by Longman.ReferencesNote that, for reasons of space, these have mainly beenlimited to papers about COMMUNAL that are in thepublic domain.
Offprints/copies of the papers listedhere by Fawcett and Tucker are available fi'om theaddress below.Berry, M.M., Butler, C.S., and Fawcett, R.P., (eds.)
to appear.Meanhtg and Choice in l.anguage: Studies for Michael IIalliday.Vohtme 2 Grammatical Structure: a Fanctional Intelpretation.Newark, N.J.: Ablo=Fawcett, R.P., 1980.
Cognitive linguistics and social bueraction:towards an integrated model of a systemic functional grammar and theother components ofan interacting mind.
Heidelberg: Julius Groosand Exeter University.Fawcett, R.P., 1986.
'Meaningful relationships'.
Interview with TonyDurham, published in 'Over the horizon' column in Computing: theMagazine (6.2.86), pp.
6-7.Fawcett, R.P., 1987. q~he semantics of clause and verb forrelational processes in English'.
In IIalliday, M.A.K., and Fawcett,R.P.
(eds.)
1987.
New developments #7 systemic linguistics, Vol 1:Theory and description.
I.ondon: Frances Pinter.Fawcett, R.P., 1988.
'Language generation as choice in socialinteraction'.
In Zock, M., and Sabah, G., (eds) 1988b.
Advancesin natural anguage generation Vol 2.
London: Pinter.Fawcett, R.P., 1990a.
'The COMMUNAL Project: two years oldand going well'.
In Network No.
13.Fawcett, R.P., 1990b.
'The computer generation of speech withsemantically and discoursally motivated intonation'.
In Procs of 5thInternational Workghop on Natural Language Generation, Pittsburgh.Fawcett, R.P., to appear a.
'A systemic functional approach toselectional restrictions, roles and semantic preferences'.
Acceptedfor Machine Translation.Fawcett, R.P., to appear b.
'A systemic functional approach tocomplementation'.
In Berry, Butler and Fawcett, to appear.McDonald, D.D., Vaughan, M.M., and Pustejovsky, J.l)., 1987.
'Factors contributing to efficiency in natural language generation'.In Kempen, Gerard, (ed) 1987.
Natural language generation.Dordrecht: Martinus Nijhoff.Tucker, G.II., 1989.
'Natural language generation with a systemicfunctional grammar'.
In Laboratorio degli studi linguistici 1989//1.Camerino: Italy: Universita degli Studi di Camerino (pp.7-27).Tucker, G.H., to appear.
'Cultural classification and systemnetworks: a systemic functional approach to lexical semantics'.
InBerry, Butler and Fawcett, to appear.Contact address: Dr R.P.
Fawcett, Director, ComputationalLinguistics Unit, Aberconway Building, University of Wales Collegeof Cardiff, Cardiff CF1 3EU, UK.
e-mail: fawcett@uk.ac.cardiff andtuckerg@uk.ac.cardiff2.5.5.903 49
