tVIodeling syntactic constraints on anaphoric bindingMary DalrympleSRI Internat ionalandStanford UniversityJohn MaxwellXerox-PARCAnnie ZaenenXerox-PARCandCSLI, Stanford UniversityAbst ractSyntactic onstraints on antecedent-anaphor re-lations can be stated within the theory of LexicalFunctional Grammar (henceforth LFG) throughthe use of functional uncertainty (Kaplan andMaxwell 1988; Halvorsen and Kaplan 1988; Ks-plan and Zaenen 1989).
In the following, wesummarize the general characteristics of syn-tactic constraints on anaphoric binding.
Next,we describe a variation of functional uncer-tainty called inside-out functional uncertaintyand show how it can be used to model ana-phoric binding.
Finally, we discuss some bind-ing constraints claimed to hold in natural lan-guage to exemplify the mechanism.
We limit ourattention throughout to coreference possibilitiesbetween definite antecedents and anaphoric el-ements and ignore interactions with quantifiers.We also limit our discussion to intrasententiMrelations.1 Genera l  character i s t i cs  o f  syntact i cconst ra in ts  on anaphor ic  b ind ingThe relation between an anaphor and its an-tecedent is semantic in nature.
In the simplecases that we limit our attention to here, thetwo are coreferent.
1 This semantic relation issubject to syntactic constraints, however, andit is the statement of these constraints that wefocus on.In the LFG approach to these constraintsproposed in Bresnan et al (1985), 2 bind-ing conditions are stated as conditions on f-structure configurations rather than conditionson c-structures.
Two kinds of syntactic fac-1This is of course not always the case.
Reciprocalsand binding by quanti f ied NP 's  are two well-known casesin which the semant ic  relat ion is more complicated.2For a summary  of the views in Bresnan et al (1985),see Sells (1985).tots are shown to influence anaphoric bindingpossibilities: the grammatical function of thepotential antecedent (in particular whether ornot it is a subject) and the characteristics ofthe syntactic domain in which the potential an-tecedent and the anaphor are found (for exam-ple, whether that domain is tensed or whetherit has a subject).
In Bresnan et al (1985),anaphors are consequently annotated for bothdomain and antecedent constraints.Some constraints are stated in positive terms:the antecedent must be tbund within a partic-ular domain or have a particular function.
Inother cases the constraints are negative: the an-tecedent and the anaphor cannot both be partof a particular domain, or the antecedent cannotbear a particular grammatical function.
Undersuch negative conditions, the a naphor is disjointin reference from its antecedent.2 Mode l ing  b ind ing  const ra in ts  w i thfunct iona l  uncer ta in tyF-structure relations are in some cases not char-acterizable as a finite disjunction over paths:for example, dependencies between ~fillers' and'gaps' in, for example, relative clauses and wh-questions.
Functional uncertainty was devel-oped for the analysis of such dependencies.Kaplan and Maxwell (1988) and Kaplan andZaenen (1989) develop a formal specification ofrelations involving disjunction over paths by al-lowing the argument position of functionM equa-tions to denote a set of strings.
Suppose (t is a(possibly infinite) set of symbol strings; then(1) ( fa )  = v holds if and only ifa.
f = vande 6 a, orb.
( ( f  s) Surf(s,a)) = v for some sym-bol s, where Surf(s, a)  is the set of suffixstrings y such that sy 6 a.72 1An equation with a string-set argument holds ifand only if it holds for some string in that set.This kind of equation is trivially unsatisfiable if.c, denotes the empty set.
If a is a finite set, this\[brmula is equivalent to a finite disjunction ofequations over the strings in a.
Passing from fi-nite disjunction to existential quantification en-ables us to capture the intuition of unboundeduncertainty as an underspecification f exactlywhich choice of strings in a will be compatiblewith the functional information carried by the~;urrounding surface nvironment.Kaplan and Zaenen (1989) require that a bedrawn from the class of regular languages.
Thecharacterization f uncertainty in a particulargrammatical equation can then be stated as aregular expression over the vocabulary of gram-matical fllnction names.Functional uncertainty can also be used in thecase of negative constraining equations.
In thatsituation, the requirement is that there be nopath picked out by the regular expression thatmakes the equation true.
That is, the negationof an expression i volving functional uncertaintyhas the effect of negating an existentially quan-tified expression.Kaplan and Zaenen (1989) consider only ex-pressions of the form(fwhere a is a. regular expression.
In expressionssuch as tihese, a represents a path through thef-structure f. We refer to paths of this typeas PathIn, and to functional uncertainty of thistype as outside-in functional uncertainty.In IIalvorsen and Kaplan (1988), expressionsof the form(a f)are introduced.
We will refer to the path in ex-pressions of this form as PathOut, and to func-tionM uncertainty ofthis type as inside-out func-tional uncertainty.
Expressions involving inside-out functional uncertainty are interpreted as de-noting f-structures fi'om which f is reachableover some path in a.More formally:(2) (a f )  = g e {hi 3s e a\[(hs) --~ f\]}(a f )  denotes ome f-structure g through whichLhere is a path in the set of strings a leading tof.
The equation =~ is a constraining equationchecking for the existence of such an f-structure.Relations between anaphors and their an-tecedents are also in some cases not char-acterizable as a finite disjunction of pathswithin f-structures; for this reason, the useof functional uncertainty in characterizing theanaphor-antecedent relation seems appropriate.In our view, modeling anaphoric binding con-straints consists of specifying a set of f-structurepaths relating anaphors with elements that areeither possible or disallowed antecedents.
Weuse inside-out functional uncertainty to charac-terize the relation between an anaphor and theseelements.To illustrate, the antecedent of the Norwe-gian anaphor seg must be a subject outside ofthe minimal complete clause nucleus 3 in whichseg appears; this antecedent can be at an indefi-nite distance away from the anaphor, as long asonly the highest nucleus in the domain containsa tense marker (tIellan 1988; p. 73):(3) Jon bad oss forsoke i f?
deg tilJon/asked us to try to get you to?
snakke pent om segtalk nicely about himiUnder an LFG analysis, the path between theantecedent and the anaphor in (3) contains threeXCOMPs, as diagrammed in Figure 1.
Assumethat TA denotes the f-structure for seg, the struc-ture labeled 9 in :Figure 1.
The set of nestedf-structures containing 9 is characterized by theregular expression(4) (XCOMP* OBJ TA)In Figure 1, this set consists of the structureslabeled 1, 2, 3, and 4.
The expression in (5)designates the subjects of these four f-structures,those labeled 5, 6, 7 and 8:(5) ((XCOMP* o.J svBJ)F-structures 5, 6, and 7 are the f-structures ofthe possible antecedents of seg: the subjects out-side of the minimal clause nucleus in which segappears.
F-structure 8 is not a possible an-tecedent for seg, since it appears in the sameminimal clause nucleus as seg; f-structure 8 will3A clause nucleus is formed by any predicate (regard-less of its syntactic ategory) and its dependents.
A com-plete clause nucleus is a clause nucleus with a subjectdependent.2 731:suBJ  5:\[\]XCOMP 2:s ,B J  6:\[\]XCOMP 3: XCOMP 4: \[OBJ 9:\[(anaphor)iFigure 1: F-structurefor sentence (3)be excluded from the set of possible antecedentsfor seg by a negative constraint.More schematically, the set of possible an-tecedents of an anaphoric phrase can be char-acterized by an expression of the form in (6):(6) ((PathOut TA) Pathln)(PathOut TA) picks out the set of f-structureswhich contain the anaphor and in which the an-tecedent must be located.
PathIn characterizesthe functional role of the antecedent.
I  is a gen-eral constraint on antecedent-anaphor relationsthat the the antecedent must f-command 4 theanaphor; for this reason, the PathIn is always oflength one.
The PathIn, then, consists of (andconstrains) the grammatical function borne bythe antecedent.Conditions on the binding domain are formal-izable as conditions on the PathOut, since thePathOut characterizes the domain in which boththe anaphor and its antecedent are found.
~Vewill look in detail at one such constraint; be-fore doing so, however, we make a simplifyingassumption about the semantics of the anaphor-antecedent relation.In the simple cases we are considering here,the relation is be represented as identity be-tween the semantic ontent of the anaphor andits antecedent.
Elaboration of this represen-tation would require us to introduce the LFGmechanism of projections (HMvorsen and Ka-plan 1988), which is beyond the scope of thispaper.Here we will use the informal notation in (7):(7) < cr > ((PathOut \]'A) PathIn)=< a >TA4Bresnan (1982) defines f-command as follows: for anyfunctions GF1, GF2 in an f-structure, GF1 f-commandsGF2 iff GF1 does not contain GF2 and every f-structurethat contains GF1 contains GF2.to indicate that the semantics of the anaphor,< a > TA, is to be identified with the semanticsof its antecedent.
The material in angle bracketsstands for the mapping (not further specified)between the syntax and the semantics.To prevent he anaphoric element from be-ing contained in its antecedent, we formulate theconstraint in (8), where TANT stands for the f-structure of the antecedent:(8) -1 \[(TANT GF +) = ~'A\]The effect of  this constraint is very similar tothe i-within-i condition in Government-BindingTheory (Chomsky 1981).
It has been arguedthat this constraint should be relaxed (see e.g.Hellan (1988)) but the correct analysis of pu-tative counterexamples is not clear.
We willassume here that the constraint can be main-tained.We now describe how to model a domainconstraint hat holds of some anaphors: someanaphors must be bound within the minimalcomplete nucleus - -  the minimal nucleus con-taining a subject.Let F1 designate an f-structure containing theanaphor.
We can characterize F1 in the follow-ing way:(9) F1 = (GF + TA)where GF denotes the set of grammaticalfunction labels.For F1 to be a valid binding domain foranaphors ubject o this constraint, it;must notcontain any smaller f-structure that properlycontains the anaphor and a subject.
That is,FI must be the smallest complete nucleus.
Wewill define DPF ('domain path f-structure') asany of the f-structures that contain the anaphorand are properly contained in FI:74 3(i0) (DPF,  GF +) =~ TADPF1 ==?
(F1 GF +)It is these intermediate f-structures that mustn.ot contain a subject:(1\]) -~(DPF1 SUB J)The constraint that an anaphor must bebound within the minimal complete nucleus can,then, be stated as follows:(\].2) a.
< o" > (F1 GF) =< cr >TAb.
-~CDPF1 SUBJ)These two equations ensure identity between thesemantic content of the anaphor and its an-tecedent, where the an.tecedent is the value ofsome GF of an f-structure F1 that contains theanaphor.
There may not be a f-structure DPF1that is properly contained in F1 which has a sub-ject.% Examples  o f  anaphor ic  b ind ingWe now illustrate the use of these binding con-straints with some of the conditions that havebeen proposed for English, Marathi, and Scan-d inavian pronouns and reflexives,The English retlexive pronoun was describedin Bresnan et al (1985) as having to be boundin the minimal complete nucleus, as illustratedby the following contras t:(11.3) a. Hei told us about himself/.b.
We told himi about himselfi.c.
*Hei asked us to tell Mary about himself/.As discussed in Section 2, this pattern of gram-maticality judgments can be modeled by theconstraints given in (9) through (12).The an.tecedent of the Marathi reflexive,~:wataah must be a subject, but may be at aniadefinite distance from the anaphor, so long asthe antecedent and the anaphor appear in thesame minimal tensed domain.
Th.is req,irementcan be translated into the following path speci-fication.
(~14) a.
< o >(F~ SUBJ )  = < cs >TASData are from Bresna.n et al (1985), ttellan (1988),and D~flrymple (in prep.).b.
-~(DPF1 TENSE) = +where F1 and DPF1 are as defined aboveAccording to these equations, the antecedentof the anaphor must be contained in an f-structure F1; further, there must not be an f-structure DPF1 properly contained in F 1 thathas a TENSE attribute with value +.A more interesting ease arises when a bind-ing relation is subject to both a negative and apositive constraint.
An example is the Swedishanaphor honorn sjiilv.
Its antecedent must ap-pear in its minimal complete clause nucleus, butit must be disjoint from subjects.
This anaphoroccurs Micitously within the following sentence:(15) Martin bad oss bergtta fhr honomMartini asked us to talk to him/om honom sjglvabout himself/Conditions on honom sjiilv do not prohibit Mar-tin and honom sjiilv from being interpreted ascoreferent, though Martin bears the grammat-ical function suBJ.
This is because Martin ap-pears outside the binding domain of honom sfiilvand is thus not considered when either positiveor negative binding constraints are applied.In our framework, two constraints are re-quired for honom sjiilv.
One, (16)a, statesthe positive constraint: the domain in whichthe antecedent of honom sjfilv must be found.The other, (16)b, states the negative constraint:honom sjhlv must be disjoint from the subjectin that domain.
(\]6) a.
\[F 1 = ((J'F + TA) A< ~r >(F1 GF) = < cr >\]A A-~(DPF1 SUB J)\]b.
~ \[V: = (aF  + ~A) A< a > (F2 SUBJ) =< ~ >TA-~(DPF2 SUB J)\]The negative constraint rules out coreferenceonly between the anaphor and the subject ofthe minimal complete clause nucleus; it does notprevent coreference between the anaphor honomzjiilv and a subject Martin outside the bindingdomain.
In general, negative binding constraintsdo not hold in a larger domain than is specifiedby the positive equation.4 75For the Norwegian anaphoric form hans, theonly specifications are negative (Hellan(1988),Bresnan et al (1985)); it must be disjoint fromthe immediately higher subject.
We can encodethis requirement as:(17) -1 \[F1 =(GF  + ~A) A< ~ 2> (F1SUBJ) =< cT > TA A~(DPF1 SUB J)\]This is the same negative requirement as wasillustrated above, in example (16).
As no posi-tive requirement is given, no antecedent relationis imposed.
It is assumed that another module,presumably the discourse component, will sup-ply a referent for the pronoun.4 Conc lus ionWe have sketched a way to use inside-out func-tional uncertMnty to constrain the relation be-tween an anaphor and an antecedent.
A formaltheory of anaphoric binding will involve a spec-ification of a universal inventory of anaphoricbinding possibilities and possible dependenciesbetween them.A general discussion of such a theory is be-yond the scope of this paper, but we conclude byindicating how our approach captures a few ofthe cross-linguistic properties of anaphoric bind-ing.If the domMn and the antecedent binding re-quirements for an anaphor are both positive orboth negative, the requirements must be satis-fied by the same element.
This is enforced by re-quiring that only one positive and one negativeequation can be associated with each a naphor.Additionally, only elements that are superiorto the element should be considered in apply-ing the constraints.
GF1 is superior to GF2 if(1) GF1 asymmetrically f-commands GF2, or(2) GF1 and GF2 f-command each other, andGF1 is higher on the hierarchy of grammaticalfunctions given in (18):(18) SUBJ > OBJ > OBJ2 > OBL > ADJAs noted above, the f-command requirement isenforced by the requirement that the Path Outbe non-null and the PathIn be of length one.The modelling of the functional hierarchy givenin (18) within onr framework is, however, a taskthat remains to be done.A finM observation is that inside-out fllnc-tional uncertainty can interact with outside-infunctional uncertainty as used in the analysis ofdependencies between 'fillers' and 'gaps', as inthe following:(19) a.
*Bill said that Sue likes himself.b.
ttimself, Bill said that Sue likes.Preliminary research indicates that no specialmachinery is needed to model the right interac-tions in these cases.ReferencesBresnan, J.
1982.
Control and complementa-tion.
In J. Bresnan (Ed.
), The Mental Repre-sentation of Grammatical Relations, 282-390.Cambridge, Mass.
: MIT Press.Bresnan, J., P.-K. Halvorsen, and J. Ma.ling.1985.
Logophoricity and bound anaphors.Ms, Stantbrd University.Chomsky, N. 1981.
Lectures on Government andBinding.
Dordrecht: Foris Publications.Dalrymple, M. in prep.
Syntactic CoT~straintson Anaphoric Binding.
PhD thesis, StanfordUniversity.ttalvorsen, P.-K., and R. M. Kaplan.
1988.
Pro-jections and semantic description in Lexical-Functional Grammar.
In Proceedings of theInternational Co@fence on Fifth GenerationComputer Systems, 1116-1122, Tokyo, Japan.Institute for New Generation Systems.ttellan, L. 1988.
Anaphora in Norwegian and theTheory of Grammar.
Dordrecht: Foris Publi-cations.Kaplau, R. M., and J. Maxwell.
1988.
An algo-rithm for functional uncertainty, in Proceed-ings of COLING 88.Kaplan, R. M., and A. Zaenen.
1989.
Long-distance dependencies, constituent structure,and flmctional uncertainty.
In M. Baltin andA.
Kroch (Eds.
), Alternative Conceptions ofPhrase Structure.
Chicago University Press.Sells, P. 1985.
Lectures on ContemporarySyntactic Theories.
Stanford University:CSLI/University of Chicago Press.
CSM Lec-ture Notes, Number 3.76 5
