Acquisition of Lexical Informationfrom a Large Textual Italian CorpusNicoletta CALZOLARI - Remo BINDIIstituto di Linguistica Computazionale del CNR, PisaDipartimento di Linguistica, Universita" di PisaVia deIla t'aggiola 3256100 PISA - ITALYe-mNl: GLOTTOLO @ ICNUCEVM.BITNET1.
l.troduction: LDB requirementsThe creation and development of a large LexicalDatabase (LDB) which, until now, mainly reusesthe data found in standard Machine ReadableDictionaries, has been going on in Pisa for anumber of years (see Calzolari 1984, 1988,Calzolari, Picchi 1988).
We are well aware that, inorder to build a more powel-ful I.DB (or even aLe.
'dcal Knowledge Base) to be used in differentComputationM l.inguistics (CL) applications, typesof information other than those usually found inmachine readable dictionaries are urgently needed.Different sources of information must therefore beexploited if we wemt to overcome the 'qchcalbottleneck ~" of Natural l..anguage Processing(NIP) .In a trend which is becoming increasinglyrelevant both m c1 proper and in Literao" andIinguistic Computing, we feel that very interestingdata ibr our LI)Bs c:m be found b.v processing largetextuM corpora, where the actual usage of thelanguage can be truly investigated.
Many researchprojects are nowadays collecting large amounts oftextuM data, thus providing more and morematerial to be analyzed for descriptions based onmeasurable vidence of how language is actuallyused.
We uhhnately aim at integrating lexical dataextracted from the an',dysis of large textual corporainto the I,DB we are implementing.
These datarefer, typically, to:i) complementation relations introduced byprepositions (e.g.
dividere < divide >subcategorizes for a PP headed by the prepositionin < in > ha one sense, and by the preposition fra< among > in another sense);ii) lexically conditioned modification relations (tenamacchina potente < powerful car >, un farmacopotente <potent medicine> and not /brte< strong >, while un cajfe" forte < strong coffee >,una moneta forte < strong currency > and not po-tente < powerful > );iii) lefically significant collocations (premiere ut~adecisione < to take a decision > and not fare z~nadecisione < to make >, prestare attenzione < to payattention > and not dare < to give > );iv) fixed phrases and idioms I (donna itz carriera,dottorato di ricerca, a propo~ito di);v) compounds ( tarola calda, ~ave scuo/a).All these types of data are a major issue ofpractical relevance, and particularly problematic, inmany N IP  applications in different areas.
Theyshould therefore be dvcn very lm'ge coverage in anyuseful LDB, and, moreover, should also beannotated, in a computerk,'ed lexicon, for thepe~inent t)equency information obtained fiom theprocessed corpus, and obviously updated fl"om timeto time.
As a matter of fact, dictionaries now tendto encode all the theoreticcd possibilities on a samelevel, but "if e;'e~ possibility in the diction:m, mustbe given equal weight, parsing is very diificult"(Church 1988, p.3): they should provideinfornaation on what is more likely to occur, e.g.relative likelihood of alternate pm-ts of speech for aword or of ahernate word-senses, both out ofcontext and it" possible taking into accountcontextu~d factors.Statistical anMyses of linguistic data were verypopular in the "50s and '60s, mainly, even thoughnot only, for literary types of analyses and forstudies on the lexicon (Guiraud 1959, Muller 1964,Moskovich 1977).
Stochastic approaches tolinguistic analyses have been strongly reevaluatedin the past few years, either for syntactic analysis(Gm'side et al 1987, Church 1988), or for NLPapplications (Brown et al 1988), or for semanticanalysis (Zemik 1989, Smadja 1989).
Quantitative(not statistical) evidence on e.g.
word-senseoccurrences in a large corpus have been taken intoaccount for lexicographic descriptions (Cobuild1%7).I llere and in the following we have not translated i iomatic phrases and compounds, because there is no point ingiving the literal translation of the single words.54 1The claim of this paper is that the above typesof linguistic information (i-v), to be made availablefor our LDB, can be partially extracted byprocessing and analyzing very large text corpora,with quantitativc/st,~zistic methods.2.
The Italian Reference CorpusThe corpus (see Zarnpolli 1988) on which we arenow conducting our analysis is being produced bythe ILC and an Italian publishing house (see Bindiet al 1989).
The project was begun in 1988.
Thecorpus now contains about 12 milfion words, andthe first goal is to reach 20 million words by the endof "90.
When completed, the corpus will bebalanced among journals, novels, manuals,scientific texts, 'grey' literature, etc.
The corpus ispresently unproportioned, because we firstprocessed and inserted up to about 8 million wordsfrom journals, newspapers, mag~ines, etc., whilewe are nt)w inserting data fi'om novels and from thescientific and technical literature.The present study is conducted on the firstsection of the corpus, but we obviously intend toextend the mlMysis to the other sections as soon asthey become available.We describe two types of quantitative anMyseswhose aim is to extract information on:a) the strength ofassocialion between two words;b) fixed phrases or idioms.3.
The strength of  association within word-pairsAs regards the first point we have used themethod of measuring thc association ratio betweentwo words as described by Church and llanks(1989).
The value of the association ratio reflectsthe strength of the bond between the two wordstaken into account.
The method is very simple.The association ratio between any two words x andy appearing together in a window of five words inthe corpus is based on the concept of "mutuMinformation" defined as:I (x,y) = log~P (x) P (y)where P is the probability.
We refer to Church andHank,.~ (1989, pp.
77-78) for a detailed explanationof the fommla and of how the association ratioslightly differs from it, given that we are moreinterested here in the linguistic m~d lexicographicevaluation of the numerical results deriving from itsapplication.In addition to this we have introduced themeasurement of the so~called ispersion, in orderto obtain - linked to the association ratio - quanti~tative information on the distribution of the secondword of the word-pair in the selected window.
Wewanted in fact to complete the simple frequencynotion for a word-pair with that of frequencystability or dispersion, i.e.
to add to the frequencya measure of how it is distributed over the differentpositions of the window.
In this way we evaluatethe uniformity of repartition of frequency of thesecond word over the considered span.
We haveused the formula described in detail in Bortolini etal.
(1971, pp.
23-31), even though used here fordifferent purposes.We gj've some ex,'unples in Table 1, where fix,y)is the frequency of occurrence of words x and ytogether and in this order in a window of 5 words,gap is equal to the number of words between x andy (if gap = 0 then x and y are immediately adjacent),f(x) and f(y) are the frequencies of occu;rence of xand y independently in the corpus, ass.ratio is theresult of application of the formula to x at~d y,dispersion calculates how tile second word isdistributed within the considered window.This last information is very useflfl not only toevidence words belongi'ng to fixed phrases, butespecially while trying to evidence syntacticrelationships.
If the dispersion is 0 or ncm" to !
), allor most of tile occurrences of tile second word areconcentrated in the sameposition.
This means thatthe position and distance of the two words isalways the same, and it is theretbre a strongmeasure for evidencing "fixed phrases" or"compounds" with no variation inside.
Whenviceversa its value approaches 1,y is almost equallydistributed in the four positions of the consideredspan.
Thus, the combination of a not very lfigh(but above a certain level) ass.ratio with dispersionvalues near to 1 is more typical of syntactic typesof collocations, giving e.g.
information onprepositional government.We wish to highlight here some of the resultsachieved by the application of these statisticalmeasures to the Italian corpus, and mainly toevaluate their linguistic relevance.Table 1.f(x,y) gap = 0 gap = 1 gap = 2 gap = 3Stall Uniti 2047 2042 0punto vista 832 0 831opinione pubblica 272 272 0presto a 33 14 9spendere per 36 8 8e" arnbizioso 20 5 5~x)0 5 58500 1 43960 0 6576 4 859 11 1835 5 115476f(y) ass.ratio dispersion2159 10.34 0.0031974 9.58 0.0021315 11.30 0.000120969 4.68 0.736101862 3.95 0.921123 3.49 1.0002 55From the present corpus of 8,032,667occurrences (tokens) and 178,811 different word-forms (types), we obtained 26,473,263 word-pairs(tokens) in a window of 5 words (and not32,000,000, as the window is not extended beyondany strong punctuation mark) and 8,716,446different word-pairs (types).
After discarding all thepairs with f(x,y) < 4, because they were too rare andof no linguistic relevance, 787,878 word-pairs wereobtained, which were eventually reduced to 322,718after eliminating those with association ratio < 3(the pairs seem to be linguistically irrelevant belowthis level).We must also recall that the data to which wehave applied our measures are articles from manydifferent ypes of newspapers, journals, etc.
- i.e.many short texts - ,  so that there is no bias towardsclustering tendencies of words such as could appearin longer texts, like entire novels.If we order the word-pairs by decreasing valueof the association ratio, and examine the types ofword combinations appearing in the differentpositions of the file, we observe a different typologyof word combinations according to the differentlevels:i) at the top;ii) in the center;iii) towards the lower interesting values, whichfor Italian seems to be a little higher than forEnglish, i.e.
around 35;iv) below this significant value, until reaching thefew negative values.For example at the top, i.e.
with very high values(ranging from 22.93 to about 15), we find thefollowing categories of word-pairs:- proper nouns, titles, etc.
(e.g.
Oci Ciornie 20.6,Cvrano Bergerac 20.1, Montgomery Clift 20.1,Ursula Andress 19.9);foreign (usually English) compound words orfixed phrases (value added 19.8, pax Christi 17.7,teen ager 17.7, drug administration 17.3);Italian compounds of words belonging tospecialized languages, which almost never occur ineve~day language (bismuto colloidale 20.1,tornografia assiale 19.8, marmitte catalitiche 19.6,nitrato amrnonio 19.5, accoppiatore acu_~tico 17.5);- co-occurring technical words, which again appearvery rarely ( laringiti traeheiti 20.3, idrologiaclimatologia 20.2, capperi cetriolini 19.6, prefettiquestori 18.5, antisettiche antispasmodiche 17.8);- fixed phrases or idioms whose component wordsare not frequent in ordinary language (volentenolente 20.6, specchietto allodole 18.8, bla bla 18.00,batter ciglio 17.2, cartoni animati 16.5, spron battuto15.5);modification relations between low" frequencyAdjectives and Nouns (sostantivi plurali 19.9, fbr-bicine affilate 18.4, gradazione alco\[ica 18.1, giub~botti antiproiettile 17.4, salmone affumicato 17.1);-.
modification relations between Noun and Nounof a PP, both of tow frequency (cartina tornasole18.3, filetti alici 17.7, siepi bosso 15.9, spicchio aglio15.5).These word-pairs hare the following properties:both the words are of very low frequency, andalmost always appear only together in the samecontext.The characteristics of the different types ofcombinations appearing within the other ranges ofthe association ratio value, i.e.
from ii) to iv) above(for example, at the value levels when more specificgrammatical/syntactic information appears), arevery different and present quite interestingproperties.Thus, we have observed how the measure of theassociation ratio gives quantitative/statisticalevidence to a number of lexical, syntactic andsemantic relationships between word-pairs.
Theserelationships are essential for codification in anLDB, and cannot be actfieved with the same"objectiveness", and certainly not to the sameextent, by other means such as e.g.
le~cographers'intuition.iMnong the syntactic relationships, particularlyrelevant is the data which regards the prepositionsmarking the different arguments of verbs, adjectivesand nouns, together with their relative frequency.This is very important hfformation to be insertedin the LDB (especially of Italian), provided we haveno dictionary source for this type ofcomplementation as for example the Lon~nandictionary for Emglish.
Other syntactic dataconcern the type of sentential complementation,mainly for the verbs.We notice, for example, that in M1 theiriIfflections the verb rischiare < to risk > and thenoun rischio only subcategorize for the prepositiondi < of>;  the same holds for the adjective capace< able >.
Tiffs infom~ation is sinll?ly aconfirmation of their only possible prepositionalcomplementizer.
The verb pensare < to think > isfound with a, che, come, di < to, that, how, o f>,i.e.
with all its theoretictd possibilities ofprepositional and sentential government, whileparlare < to speak > is more frequently associatedonly with con, di < with, about >, and not with a< to >, which should be found in principle.
DM-dere is mostly associated with con, da, bl < with,from, in>,  and not with Ira < among>.
Thesequantitative data can be associated to the differentsubcategorization frames and can be helpful forcornplementation rules, to decide on ambiguousattachments of PPs.As a next step, we are trying to con'elate thedifferent eomplementation patterns evidenced bysome word-pairs with other lexical information(fbund in the environment of these th'st word-pairs)which can be used as a clue for semanticdisambiguation.
For example, if we take theword-pairs dividere con, dividere da, dividere in, wemust look at the surrounding context and see whichgeneralizations can be done at the semantic level for56 3the three types of subcategorization.
These may infact correspond to different word-senses.Vmy useful data of both syntactic andlexical/semantic relevance concern the so-calledsupport verbs (see Gross 1982) for Nouns (usuallydeverbal or Action nouns) or for Adjectives.
WEobserve for example:compiere accertamenti /0.8fare, afjTdamento 8.1ayere (lcee.~so 5.3condwre:'e/fetmare analisi 8.3/7.3avuto accoglienza 8.0prendere decisione 9.7rendere accettabile 8.9re:~dere accessibile 9.4This sort of intonnation on support verbs is ofcssential importance for language generation (seeMel'cuk, Polguere 1988), and cannot be predictedin may other way, but can only be given either byobservation or by introspection.
The automaticcollection of these data is thu:s an impovtm:tshortcut owards their extensive coverage in a I,DB.Their se.mantics cm~ be rather easih' inferred by thetype of support verb (there is a iinite list of them)and given by rule.Purely semantic data mainly regard typicalcollocations, e.g.
between Adjective and Noun (seebelow), or between Verb and :\dverb, or between\:art) and Lvpical Subjects and :or Objects (flondarecohmia /I.4, abbas:are co{esterolo \]1.3, di~toggereattet~.Tiotze 10.9, attirare aztet;2iotze /0.7, pre.~tareattenzione 10.5, sparo" co"po 10.6).Interesting dma are also found concerning thesemantic field of ccrtain wo,ds, and obvioush.
'words bel,mging to a fixed phrase.
For co-occurrences of ?
',ouns bclongina, to the samesemantic field an exmnple is:abbig/iamemo acces.~ori 9.6chili acce.ssori 9.4her.u?
aeces.~ori 9.3:carpe accessori 9.0Examples of fixed and or  idiomatic phrases ::re:battuta arresto 11.7 (t)attuta d'arresto)pohnone acetate II.6 (pohnone d'acciaio)primo acchito 10.1 (di primo acchito)As this method is only used to work on couples ofwords, it is clear that we do not generally obtain thewhole phrase.
It is for this reason that we havedeveloped, especially for this type of data, otherquantitative tools which are described in section 4,whose results will supplcmcnt hose providcd bythis method.A number of different observations can be madefor the word-pairs, according to whether they aresorted on the right or the left word.
If we examinethe left contexts (i.e.
if' words arc ordered on tt,eright), we arc more likely to gather information one.g.
the Nouns which are typically modified by" agiven tbllowing Adjective (sotriso accattivat2te \]13;luce accecante 10.8; h?ce accesa 8.7, radio aceeaa9.7, co/ori aecesi 10.0, toni accesi 1/.2, forno acce:o10.7, ji~oco acceso 8.5).
If vice-versa we examinethe right contexts, it is easier to collect data on theNouns which are typically modified by a givenpreceding Adjective (costante aumee~to 7.6. co.~lantecontalto 6.4, costante miglioramemo 7.9, co.~tan\[eriferitnenlo 7.4, costante tet~peratura 8.1).In the left contexts again we find together datawhich regard which Adjectives m'e typical pre-modifiers of a given Noun (forte aecel2zo 8.6,inconfimdibile aecento 12.0," difficile accesso 5.3,facile accesso 5.7, libero accesso 7.5," buena acco-glienza 8.7; amice amore 4.& 1)uo:2 amo;e 3.,1.elerrzo amore 7.0, grande amo,,'e 5.2. im?ro~q%oamore 5..5, u#imo amore ,f.4, vecchio amore 3.7. ;'ereamore 3.7), or which types of Nouns arc thegovernors of PPs with a given Noun as head (co,>troI/o armamenti 8.9, limitazione armamet?ri /1.,?.riduzione armamenti 9.t, settore atw:a.,?ze~m  0.9).When analyzhag the left contexts, we also findhigh association ratios for certain types :~!
"gammatieal structures uch as: comD.,ur~d \e.,bs(with essere < to be > or re'ere ," to have ;> as k'ftword), rcfle.,dve or intransitive propomina!
-orbs(with tile par'icle .vi on tile left), reciprt~ca:!
verb.,.
{with the particles ci, ri), etc.
A!t ',hose types ofdata are obviously iml,Onant for the c:cazio> <:~.~' ::ne?haustive LDB.As a final remark we can add that it wouldce:ainlv be useihl to make the same ca!cul:,,tic,::son a tagged (for POS) corpus, in order to ob~ait:relevant inf0nnation for the Iemmas; however, wernust observe that different word-forms c,f the same~.
O IY lb l l id \ [  (.3 !
ILtl len-ana often present very different  '- " 'properties, both at the grammatical syntactic leveland at the lexieal'.,,cmantic level.
\Vh~;n compactingm, lommtic.n f0r a sin~c lcmma we must thereforebe carclhl not to lose data wlfich are relevant oparticular inflected forms.
This kind of informationis again particularly' importmu tbr practical NI~Papplications.4.
Fixed phrases and idiomsMairdy for the detection of "stereotypes" in textswe have implemented and are now refining otherquantitative/statistical tools not limited to couplesof words.In order to collect data concerning specificallyfixed phrases or multi-word units, we firstcalculated the frequency of occunence in thecorpus of all identical couples, triples, and so on,up to seven-word syntagqns.Also for this data wc calculated the di~;persio:~,and we also cMculated the so-called useNe.
Alsousage is defined according to Bortolini ct al.
(1971)as: U = FI), i.e.
\[;sage equal to Frequent> by4 57Table 2.
'85 "86 '87 '88 Total l)isp.
17sageper la prima volta 136 119 111 123 489 0.96 468.13dal punto di vista 64 76 93 77 310 0.92 286.20in gusto il mondo 73 78 60 66 277 0.94 26l .22un vero e proprio 43 23 21 25 112 0.82 9\[.74(Novels)10221229Dispersion.
It is therefore equal to Frequencywhen the word is uniformly distributed in thedifferent years (and genres), m:d is equal to 0 whenDispersion is 0, i.e.
if all occurrences wereconcentrated in a sin~e year (or genre).
L'sage isas nearer to Frequency as much the distribution isuniform, and decreases proportionally whileI)ispersion is decreasing..In this case dispersion and usage werc firstcalculated on the sections of the corpus which referto the 4 3'cars of publication of the journals (from1985 to 1988), in c, rder to point out, :-~_mong others,the appearance (or disappearance) of phrases,compounds, and stereotypes in gcneral.
We thencompared a svbset of all the prcss data with asubset of novels of analogous size, and againcalculated ispersion mid usage in order to evidenceeventual difference of distributkm of these fixedphrases between t'ress and novels.
'\[he data (of the two types) were then so~cd indifferent ways: by alphabetical order of the n-:uples.
by frcque::cy oi occurrence of the n-tuples,by dispcr.qou, by :.:sage.
l:rom each ordering weanther data ~hiei: can be used in a variety of waysor can evidence different bpes of phenomena.
,-~ncx~implc at :he bcginniug of the filc of thequad:u:'!cs e'.dcrcd b\ ~:'..,:-ge (in decreasing order)is I\mnd in Table 2 (\~ith iigurcs ior dispcrsion andusage c,::i\ cop.coming press data, i.e.
the first fourcolumns: the ,:elu,/v.n for Novels, of the s~m:e size:is each )-era" cc, lumn.
has been inserted in the tablefrom the second comparison just for curiosity).Fhc data i.e.
:dI the n-tuples of different lengths,were aiso :nerged in a single file, to evidence theprecise length of each Wen phrase.
For exa_mple,veto e proyrio is in a ,'rex high position for itsfrequency in the set of tripies, but the fact that unveto e/~roprio is also in a very high position in theset of quadruples memas that this is the size of the'true fixed phrase'.
Other observations on thelinguistic results evidenced by this method will bemade in the presentation.5.
Final remarksIn the next months we intend to experiment withother statistical formulas (e.g.
those used by Smadjaand Choueka) on the corpus (which will 'alsocontain the novels and other types of texts).The first stage of the research consists in a carefullinguistic analysis of the results obtained by thedifferent statisticN tools we are now implementingand applying.
By this analysis performedaccording to different parameters, both from theslatistical and linguistic, lexicographic viewpoints -we a~im at achieving a twofold objective.
On theone side we mm at setting up the beginning of asound methodology to semi-automatize theextraction of at least part of the relevantsyntactic:semantic relationships flom the corpus:on the other :side we hope we shall be able to builda model of the "actuat" modification andcomplementation relations (out of the theoreticala-priori possibilities), ">f the "actual" lcxicalcollocations, of the "actual" stcre(~types in theItalian language.One of the claims of this pro\];:ct i's ttmt thelinguistic information embodi,ed in all these quitedifferent types of lexicaI collocations - c, nc,: theyhave been supplied in a ~ystemati,: vc'tv by acomputational lexicon which is also ar?p,.ot~:tted" !brfrequency can be helpful t,.
)r !c:,:ic,ddisambiguation i  analysis and cmciaI fbr lexicalselection in generation.
Our method should beseen as a strategy to obtain in a semi-automaticway, and for a large portion of the lexicen, afi~rmali.,:ation of many of the types of lexicalrelations coded, ior example, in the _MeI'cuklexicon.
"Il-,is should be an enhancement both fora rnore concr<e and objective lexicography (theresults will be in fact evaluated in the next monthsin a true lexicographic environment), and tbr amore comprehensive :rod q\]ata-based" li::g:dstics.AcknmvledgmentWe wish to th:mk our Referees for usefulcomments :rod suggestions, and A. Zampo!li forhelpful discussions.ReferencesBindi, R., M..Menachini ,  P. Orsolini, (lq8%,"Italian Reference Corpus", l I.C-'lI.N-3, Pisa.Bortolini, U., C. Tagliavini, A. Zampolli, (t971),Lessico di Frequenza della LiINua ltalia~TaContemporanea, Garzanti, Nlilano.Brown, P., Cocke, J., Della Pietra, S., Della Pietra,V., Jelinek, F., Mercer, R., Roossin, P., (1988),"A statisticN approach to language translation",Proceedings oJ" the 27th b2ternational Cotferenceon Computafio~zal Linguistics, Budapest.Calzolari, N., (1984), "Detecting patterns in aI~exical Database", Proceedings of the /Otk5 8 5 ~'International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, Stanford (CA), 170-173.Calz.olm-i, N., (1988), ':Fhe dictionary and thethesaurus can be combined", in M. Evens (ed.
),Relational Models of the Lexicon, Studies inNatural I,anguage Processing, CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge, 75-96.Calzolari, N., (1989), '%exical Databases ,andTextual Corpora: perspectives of integration fora Lexical Knowledge Base", Proceedings of the/st International Lexical Acquisition Workshop,1)etroit, Michigan.Calzolari, N., E. Picchi, (1988), "Acquisition ofsemantic intbrmation from ml on-linedictionary", Proceedings of the I2thInternational Conference on Computationall.inguistics, Budapest, I Iungary, 87-92.Choueka, Y., (1988), "I.ooking for needles in ahaystack", Proceedings of the RIAO, 609-623.Church, K., (1988), "e\ stochastic parts programand noun phrase parser tbr unrestricted text",Proceedings of the 2nd A CL Conference onApplied Yatural Langucc?e Processing.Church K., P. Ihmks, (1989), "%Vord associationnorms, mutual intbrrnation and lexicography",Proceedings of the 27th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,Vancouver, British Columbia, 76-83.Cobuild, (1987), Collins Cobuild English LanguageDictionary, Collins, Glasgow.Garside, R., Leech, G., Sampson, G., (1987), TheComputational Analysis of English - a corpusbased approach, Lonmnan, l.ondon.Gross, M., (1982), "On the notion of support verb",semhmr at the Simon Fraser University, B.C.Canada.Guiraud, P., (1959), Problemes et methodes de lastatistique linguistique, D.Reidel, I)ordrecht.Ilindlc, D., (1989), "Acquiring disambiguation rulesfrom text", Proceedings of the 27th AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, Vancouver, British Columbia,118-125.Mel'cuk, I., Polgmere, A., (1988), "A formal Icxiconin Memfing-Text theory", ComputationalLinguistics, 13(3-4).Muller, Ch., (1964), Essai de Statistique Lexica/e,Klincksiek, Paris.Muller, Ch., (1965), "Frequencc, dispersion etusage: apropos des dictionnaires de fiequence",Cahiers de, Lexicologie, I1, 32-42.Moskovitch, W.A., (1977), "Polyscmy in naturaland artificial (phmned) languages", S,~///.,Journal of Linguistic Cak'u/us, Skriptor, 1, 5-2g.Smadja, J., (1989), "Macrocoding the lexicon withco-occurrence knowledge", Proceeding.s" q: z/:e\]qrst International l.exical :1 cqui.ritio:zWorkshop, Detroit, Michigan.Webster, M., M. Marcus, (1989), ":\uto:naticacquisition of the lexical semantics of verbsfrom sentence frames", Proceedings O~ dw 2 ~':/tAnnual Meeting o/" the Association _/brComputational l.i:~guistics, Vmacouver, lh-i~ishColumbia, 177-184.Zarnpolli, A., (1988), "Progetto Strategic, .Uetodie strumenti per l:lndustria delle Li~zgue ::ellacollaborazione internaAonale", I LC- C N R, Pica.Zemik, U., (1989), "Paradigms in lexicalacquisition", Proceedinsds o J" the \['ir.~tInternational Lexica/ .,i cquifftion I Vorks/',o/),Detroit, Michigan.6 59
