::3 2/2Two approaches to semantic interfacesin text generationChristian MatthiessenDepartment of Linguistics,Sydney UniversityThis paper is a contribution towards the exploration of semantic interfaces in text generationsystems.
It suggests a general interpretation of semantics for the purpose of text generation asan interlevel between lexicogrammar (the resources of grammar and vocabulary) and higherlevels of organization (knowledge base, user model, text planning, and so on).
Two approaches tothe design of this interlevel that have been implemented in generation systems are then presented-- chooser & inquiry semantics and situation-specific semantic systems.
They are compared andcontrasted to bring out their relative merits.1.
The role of semantics in text generation: semantics as an inter-levelText generation is the creation of text, typically by means of a computer, in response tosome well-specified need for text such as the need to report on tomorrow's weather or todefine a particular term for somebody (e.g.
Kempen, 1986; McKeown & Swartout, 1987).That is, a text has to be created step by step from the initial specification of a need for atext to a final output, either in writing or in speech; minimally we can specify the initialneed for text at one end and lexicogrammatical representation & orthographicrepresentation at the other.
The organization of the process of generating a text and of theresources that are activated in the course of this process can be seen as stratification orthe arrangement into levels of successive orders of symbolic abstraction.
So given the taskof text generation, the most productive interpretation of the semantic system is a stratalone, more specifically, semantics can be seen as the interlevel or interface between thelinguistic resources of the system and the higher-level, non-linguistic ones.
For instance,if there is a contextual specification that a service of some kind is needed, this can beaddressed linguistically by choosing some semantic strategy such as pleading, requesting,or ordering; which strategy is selected will again depend on contextual factors such as thenature of the relationship between speaker and listener.
The semantic selections are re-expressed lexicogrammatically and then again graphically or phonologically.While there are many possible conceptions of semantics, it is this interpretation ofsemantics as a strategic interlevel for accomplishing tasks linguistically that iscentral to text generation; and it is the conception of semantics that we find in systemic-functional linguistics.
1 The strategies can be represented as a set of inter-relatedoptions by means of the system network of systemic theory.
This corresponds toMcDonald's (1980) characterization of text generation as being organized around thenotion of choice.
That is, generating a text is essentially a process of selecting among allthe various alternatives available at different levels of abstraction.
As Patten (1988) haspointed out, there is a significant parallel between Halliday's (e.g., 1973, 1978)emphasis on the process of choice and the organization of language as inter-related optionsin systemic linguistics and the paradigm of problem solving in Artificial Intelligence,involving the process of searching for solutions from among the options in a solution space.2.
Two approaches to the design of the semantic interlevelGiven that we interpret semantics as an interlevel, one central question is how we canexplore the organization of this interlevel.
Since semantics faces upwards, towards higherlevels of organization as well as downwards, towards lower levels within the linguisticsystem, there are two stratal approaches that can be adopted in exploring the organization~nd categories of semantics, (i) one from below; and (ii) one from above.
2(i) We can explore semantics from below, starting with lexicogrammar (the unifiedresource of grammar and vocabulary) -- what might be called a decod ing  orinterpretive approach, since it works by decoding or interpreting lexicogrammar insemantic terms.
(ii) Alternatively, we can explore it from above, from outside the linguistic system --what might be called an encoding approach since it looks at semantics as an encodingstrategy and explores how contextual categories are encoded semantically.Both of these approaches have been used in text generation systems.
I will discuss oneexample of the decoding approach in more detail in Section 3, chooser & inquiry semanticsdeveloped for and used in the Penman text generation system (e.g., Mann, 1982;Matthiessen, 1988), and one example of the encoding approach in Section 4, the theory ofsituation-specific semantic systems (Halliday, 1973) modelled in Patten's (1988) SLANGgenerator.
3 I should emphasize that the decoding and encoding approaches should not beseen as mutually exclusive alternatives.
Rather, the assumption is that they can bereconciled into one account of the semantic interlevel that brings out how it relates its twointerfaces.3.
Approaching semantics from below: chooser & inquiry semanticsApproaching semantics from below means taking lexicogrammar as the point of departurein modelling semantics.3.1 The organization of the level below: the grammatical system networkThe nature of the model of semantics that results from a lexicogrammatical point ofdeparture will obviously be determined to a large extent by the nature of the theory ofgrammar.
If the focus of the grammar is on structure, the semantics will essentially be asemantics of grammatical structure, possibly cast in some form of predicate logic.However, if the grammar is paradigmatically organized -- i.e., if the theory takes choiceas the basic organizing principle, as systemic theory does -- the semantics willessentially be one of choice as well.
We can call this model of meaning choice semantics.A number of generation systems have used systemic-functional grammar (e.g., Davey,1978 \[Proteus\]; Mann & Matthiessen, 1985 \[Nigel\]; Bateman el al, 1987 \[the Kyotogrammar\]; Fawcett and Tucker, 1989 \[COMMUNAL\]; Patten, 1988 \[SLANG\]).
The centralorganizing principle is the system network; for example, the system network below is afragment of the grammar of MOOD in English (the lower part of Figure 1).3.2 The semantic control of a system: choosers and inquiriesNow, we can organize a semantic interface in terms of the system network, which is whatBill Mann and I did in the development of the chooser and inquiry framework for oneparticular systemic generation grammar, the Nigel grammar developed at USC/Information Sciences Institute (Matthiessen, 1981; Mann, 1982; Matthiessen, 1988);this framework was then adopted and extended for the systemic generator of Japanese andChinese by John Bateman and associates at Kyoto University (Bateman & Matthiessen,forthcoming).
Each system in the system network is equipped with a chooser - -asemantic procedure for ascertaining the information needed to choose the appropriatefeature in the system.
The chooser achieves this by presenting one or more inquiries tothe higher-level contextual systems above the grammar and its semantic interface.4Choosers can be added to the system network as shown schematically in the top layer ofFigure 1 (choosers are represented by circles at the semantic level above the grammaticalsystem network).
(the MOOD fragment above is a simple taxonomy; but system networks in general allow forsimultaneous systems and disjunctive entry conditions.
-i"he former property is important formultifunctionality and parallel generation algorithms; cf.
Tung, Matthiessen & Sondheimer, 1988) 323An inquiry is simply a demand for information -- e.g., 'is the current speech function a command,i.e.
a demand on the addressee to perform a service or to provide goods?'
(Command?
); 'is thecurrent speech function a question, i.e.
a demand on the addressee to supply inforrnation?'(Question?
); etc.
-- and the context has to return a response.
The chooser then acts according tothe response, either by presenting another inquiry if more information is needed or by selectingone of the grammatical features of its system if it has enough information.
To take a very simpleexample, the chooser of the system INDICATIVE TYPE has the task of choosing between'declarative' and 'interrogative'.
It does this by presenting the inquiry Question?
to the context --an inquiry asking whether the current speech function is a demand for information, i.e.
a question,or not.
If the response is positive, the chooser selects 'interrogative'; if not, it selects'declarative'.
The chooser thus treats 'declarative' as the default option of the system.clauseindicativeinterrogativedeclarativevariable?/wh-yes~noimperative>('Z'z:~ re.z~2" d.z'.t'3e~t.z'ozz.kFig.
1 : System network (grammar) with choosers (semantics)The inquiry has two or more possible responses; since these responses define branches in theorganization of the chooser, this type of inquiry is called a branching inquiry (there is oneother type, the so-called identifying inquiry, used to bind variables in inquiries to instantialvalues).
This is an example of a minimal chooser: it consists of just one inquiry.
However, achooser may consist of more than one inquiry; if there is more than one, they are organized into adecision tree -- an Inquiry tree (for examples, see Mann, 1982; Matthiessen, 1983; 1988).The response to one inquiry simply leads to another inquiry.
During generation, an inquiry tree issimply stepped through one inquiry at a time, until the process reaches a response that is aterminal branch in the tree and leads to the choice of one of the options the chooser is associatedwith.
5324To sum up, as the grammatical system network is traversed, systems in the network arereached and their choosers are called into action, The chooser of a system has the task ofmaking an appropriate selection in its system and it does this by presenting one or moreinquiries to the higher-level systems of the text generator.
Consequently, the problem ofcontrolling the grammatical resources in a purposeful way is decomposed into a number ofvery simple demands for information.
These demands can be taken as the basis forspecifying what kind of organization is needed to support the generation process: seeMatthiessen (1987) and Bateman & Matthiessen (1989, forthcoming).
While there areconsiderable advantages in assuming that the semantic interfaces is simply a collection ofchoosers, the work on English and Japanese generation points towards an organization ofinquiries that is more global than choosers local to grammatical systems: see Bateman &Matthiessen (1989).4.
Approach ing  semant ics  from above:  context -based  semant icsWhen we approach semantics from above it is the interface between context and languagethat is highlighted.
The role of semantics can be stated with respect to context as follows:semantics is the set of strategies for construing contextual meanings as linguistic meaningsand thus moving into the linguistic system,, Or~ if we focu,~ on the notion of ~o~.I irparticular, semantics is the set of strategies for achieving some goal through symbolicactivity.
This is a functional approach to semantics: it interprets semantics in terms of theuses it has evolved to serve in different communicative contexts.
This functional approachhas a number of consequences for semantics; I will mention three here, the second of whichI will pursue in Section 4.1:(i) Semantic categories have to be sensitive not only to the downward interface tolexicogrammar, but also to the upward interface to context; they have to show how it isthat semantic strategies can play a role in context.
(ii) Since communicative contexts are highly diversified, we have to show howsemantics can be responsible across these various contexts; one way of modelling this isto treat semantics itself as diversified into a number of semantic systems 'tailored' tospecific communicative demands.
(iii) Semantics has to be concerned with language functioning in context rather thanany unit defined by lexicogrammar; consequently, the basic unit of semantics is text o-language functioning in context ~?
rather than propositions or predications.4.1 Specif icity of semantic categories -- functional diversif ication ofsemant icsSince the approach from above takes context as its starting point, it is likely to yieldsituation-specific semantic systems: we project a variety of different uses ontosemantics, giving us semantic interpretations of contextual categories; for example,'behavioural control of child' is semanticized as 'appeal to authority figure', 'threat ofphysical punishment', 'threat of loss of privilege', and the like, whereas 'behaviouralcontrol of student' is semanticized as 'warning about fees', 'threat of expulsion fromprogramme', and the like.
The notion of function reflected in this kind of semantics is thususe in context and there will be a large number of different uses.6There are at least twobasic types of motivation for exploring and writing context-based semantic systems, (i)bridging and (ii) compilation.
(i) 8r idging.
The orientation towards context serves to bridge the gap betweenlinguistic categories and higher-level categories.
Within sociology, Halliday's concept ofsemantics is motivated partly because it can act as an interface between language and therest of the social system.
Turner (1973: 195) comments\[Halliday's concept of meaning potential\] should enable researchers to integrate sociologicalconcepts and linguistic concepts.
The sociological theory identifies the socially significantmeanings.
Once these are specified, their grammatical and lexical realizations are alsocapable of specification.Within computational linguistics and AI, it is possible to make similar observations:situation-specific semantic systems may serve to relate nomlinguistic categories tolinguistic ones.
(ii) Compilation.
Furthermore, a situation-specific semantics can be seen as a set ofstrategies developed to deal efficiently with the specific, limited set of communicationproblerns inherent in that context of situation.
We can find this consideration incomputational linguistics and AI.
As noted earlier, Patten (1988) has shown that theapproach of situation-specific semantics can be motivated in AI terms as well as inlinguistic terms.
Patten treats text generation as problem solving and shows that there is astriking similarity between the AI problem-solving framework and Halliday's systemicapproach to language.
The similarity is all the more interesting because the two traditionshave developed independently of one another.The lexicogrammatical system network can be seen as the space of inter-relatedalternatives for solving a communicative problem.
There are different ways of searchingthe system network for appropriate feature selections.
One way is to traverse the networkfrom left to right and to reason about each systemic alternative by means of choosers (cf.Figure 1 above).
Patten argues that it is potentially costly to do this kind of reasoning frombasic principles.
Another way is to rely on a strategy that has already been developed for a325326particular problem ("compiled knowledge") and this is what Patten takes a situationspecific semantics to be.
That is, for a given register there is a particular semanticstrategy for traversing the lexicogrammatical system network.
If we are faced with a novelgeneration task which does not correspond to a recognized register, we will have to revertto basic principles.4.2 An example: a semant ics of control  in a regulatory contextLet's consider an example of the semantics of a particular register.
Assume that we arebuilding a generator for mother-child control, the situation Turner (1973) didsociological research on, Halliday (1973) uses as an example of sociological semantics,and Patten (1988) takes over for text generation.7 The situation is the following(Halliday, 1973: 65):\[A\] small boy has been playing with the neighbourhood children on a building site, and has comehome grasping some object which he has acquired in the process.
His mother disapproves, andwishes both to express her disapproval and to prevent him from doing the same thing again.The question is what her linguistic strategies are.
The answer lies in the semantic systemnetwork; most generally, she can threaten, warn, or appeal to her son, issue a rule, etc..The semantic network consists of systems like threat / warning, physical punishment /mental punishment / restraint on behaviour, and so on.
Semantic features are realized bypreselections of grammatical features.
For example, the semantic feature 'threat' isrealized by selection of the grammatical feature 'declarative'.
In general, delicategrammatical features are preselected and the less delicate features they presuppose canthen be chosen automatically by moving from right to left by backward chaining in thesystem network rather than by explicit preselection.
This method makes good use of the'logic' of the lexicogrammatical system network; see Figure 2 below.As the diagram indicates, there is a tendency for the situation-specific semantics to be moredelicate than the non-specific lexicogrammar.
This is to be expected, particularly in the fairlyrestricted registers that have been attempted in text generation: only a restricted subset of thelexicogrammatical resources will be employed and the semantics can simply 'turn off' certainparts of the grammar by never preselecting grammatical features in these parts.To extend Patten's line of research further within text generation, it is important to describethe semantic systems of a variety of situation types; for instance, Marilyn Cross, at MacquarieUniversity, is currently working on descriptions of the water cycle for different addressees.There is good reason to think that the approach of situation-specific semantic systems will yieldinteresting results.
The types of situation for which we can attempt to write semantic networkswould also seem to be the types that can be addressed in text generation at present.Now, the example of regulatory semantics has been discussed in terms of a network of semanticsystems such as threat / warning.
To relate these systems upwards, we can assume realizationsof contextual features of interaction by means of preselections of semantic features.Alternatively, we can easily turn the systems into inquiries that demand information fromcontext.
For instance, the system threat / warning can be re-represented as an inquiry concernedwith the basic strategy of control: is the child to be controlled by appealing to authority, bythreatening him with punishment or restraint on behaviour if he carries on; or by appealing to thedangers of the world, by warning him that his behaviour will harm him?Although the systemic semantics used by Patten (1988) is context based, the texts thatcan be generated do not extend beyond the clause complex.
There is, however, every reasonto expect a text semant ics  rather than only a lexicogrammatical semantics -- i.e.
asemantics that is concerned with text as a semantic unit, the basic unit of communication.To develop the notion of text semantics further, we would need to examine proposals forhow to organize text, since they would provide us with structures we can interpret as textsemantic structures.
The two types of approach that have been developed for textgeneration are (i) McKeown's Rhetorical Schemas (McKeown, 1982; Paris & McKeown,1987) (ii) and, within the Penman project, Rhetorical Structure Theory (see e.g., Mann& Thompson, 1987; Matthiessen & Thompson, 1988; Mann, Matthiessen & Thompson,1989).
McKeown's work is very similar to systemic work on generic structures by Hasan(1978, 1984, etCo) and others.
In either case, the structures they operate with can serveto realize semantic features in a text semantic system network?,% 0oJ~4o...o o{IJVlL'=aoJ5.
Conclusion: the two approaches re-consideredTo recapitulate, taking the basic systemic posiiion that semantics is an interlevelbetween higher-level contextual systems and the purely language-internal level oflexicogrammar, I have suggested that we can approach it from either of the two semanticinterfaces -- from above, from context, or from below, from lexicogrammar -= and thatwe find both approaches modelled in text-generation systems using systemic-functionalgrammar.
The chooser and inquiry interface, built from below, has the advantage that it isfairly easy to develop once there is a significant systemic-functional grammar to base iton; it can be developed as 'semantic glosses' on the organization already embodied in thegrammatical system network.
It does not change the basic principle of generation supportedby the grammar: the grammatical system network guides the generation process, which isessentially a traversal of the network, and choosers are activated in the course of thisprocess.
The collection of inquiries can be used as design requirements in the developmentof the organization of the context of the generation system.
The approach from above hasother advantages.
It enables the semantics to refer to different grammatical contexts inrealization, as in the case of requests being realized both by selections in MOOD andselections in MODALITY.
Furthermore, it allows us to adapt the semantics to contextualrequirements.
This adaptation may take the form of a diversification of semantics into arange of situation-specific semantic systems.
Such systems have the added advantage thatthey represent 'compiled knowledge': they allow the generation system to take advantage ofthe semantic strategies that have evolved for a particular communication task rather thanhaving to solve the problem from first principles.
This means, among other things, thatonly those parts of the lexicogrammar that are relevant in that situation have to beex ~lored and others are simply 'blocked off' by preselections from the semantics.f+ ~  ~rz~.z'~ .
.
.physical punishm entthree, t ----~ mental p~ulis~mentindicative ~ ~  wh-imperative yes/noL .
.
.
.
.
_ .
_ _  .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
_ .
.
.
.
.Fig.
2: Generation with situation-specific semanticsThe two approaches have been used in different generation systems, but they have notbeen brought together into one system and I have not explored the question whether thiswould be possible or not.
We can obviously say that one chooses one approach or the otherdepending on the nature of the generalion task.
For instance, more closed registers(specific sublanguages) might favour situation-specific semantic systems whereas moreopen registers might favour the use of a general semantic system.
However, in the long 327run, such a position would clearly be unsatisfactory since it would commit a generationsystem to one type of generation task or another.
The most clearly differentiated positionsthat are theoretically possible would thus be:(i) Situation-specific semantic systems are essentially based on different principlesof organization, creating semantic potential for a given situation type, and cannot bedrawn from one general semantic system; and(ii) Situation-specific systems are merely abbreviations of one general semanticsystem, 'blocking off' semantic potential that is not needed in a given situation type.This needs a long separate discussion and I will leave the issues at this point for now; forfurther discussion, see Matthiessen (1989) and cf.
Bateman & Paris' (1989) approach toregister by means of chooser and inquiry semantics.ReferencesBateman, J., Gen-ichirou, & Atsuchi TabuchL 1987.
Designing a compulational sysmmicgrammar for text generation: a progress report.
Department of Electrical Engineering, KyotoUniversity.Bateman, J.
& C. Matthiessen.
1989.
The text-base uncovered.
In H. Bluhme ted), \[Selectedpapers from the leternational Conference on Language and Text Research, Xi'an JiaotongUniversity, Xi'an, P.R.C., March 89\].
To appear.Bateman, J.
& C. Matthiessen.
forthcoming.
Systemic Linguislics and Text Generation:Experiences from Japanese and English.
London: Pinter.Sateman, J.
& C. Paris.
1989.
Constraining the deployment of lexicogrammatical resourcesduring text generation: towards a computational instantiation of register theory.
Paperpresented at Sixteenth International Systemic Congress.
MS, USCi\[SL To appear in E. Vento\[ated), Selected Papers from the Sixteenth International Systemic Congress.Davey, A.
1978.
Discourse Production.
Edinburgh: Edieborgh University Press.Fawcett, R. 1983.
Language as a semiological system: a re-interpretation of Saussure.
In JMorreaU (ed.).
The Ninth LACUS Forum, 1982.
Columbia: Bornbe~,m Press.Fawcett, R. 1984.
System networks, codes, and knowledge of the universe.
In R. Fawcett,M.A.K.
Halliday, S. Lamb, & A Makkai (eds.).
The Semiotic of Language and Culture.
Volume 1:Language as Social Semiotic.
Volume 2: Language and other Semiotic Systems of Culture.London: Frances P~nter.Fawcett, R. & G. Tucker.
1999.
Prototype Generators 1 and 2.
COMMUNAL Report Number 10,Computational Linguistics Unit, University of Wales College of Cardiff.Halliday, M.A.K 1973.
Explorations in the functions of language.
London: Edward Arnold.Halliday, M.A.K.
1978.
Language as social semiotic.
The social interpretation of language andmeaning.
London: Edward Arnold.Hasan, R. 1978.
Text in 1he systemic-functiona$ model.
In W. Dressier ted.).
Current Trends inText Linguistics.
Berlin: de Gruyter.Hasan, R. 1984.
The Nursery Tale as a Genre, Nottingham Linguistic Circular , No.
13.
SpecialIssue on Systemic Linguistics.Kempen, G 1986.
Language Generation Systems.
In I. Batori, W. Lenders & W. Putschke teals.
),Computational Linguistics.
An International Handbook on Computer Oriented Language Researchand Applications.
Berlin/Now York: Walter de GruyterKempen, G.
ted.).
1987.
Natural Language Generation.
Dordrecht: Martinus Nijhoff.McDonald, D. 1980.
Language Production as a Process of Decision-making under Constraints MITPh.D.
Dissertation.
MIT Report.McKeown, K. 1982.
Generating Natural Language Text in F\]esponse to Queslions about DatabaseStruclure.
Ph.D. Dissertation, Universily of Pennsylvania.McKeown, K. & W, Swartout.
1987.
Language generation and explanation.
Annual Review ofComputer Science.
2: 401-49.Mann, W. 1982.
The Anatomy of a Systemic Choice USC ISI/RR-92-104 Also in DiscourseProcesses.Mann, W. & C. Matthiessen.
1985.
Dernonslration of the Nigel Text Generation ComputerProgram.
In J. Benson & W. Greaves (eds), Syslemic Perspectives on Discourse, Volume 1.Norwood: Ablex.Mann, W., C Matlhiessen & S. Thompson.
1989.
Rhetorical Structure \]beery and Text AnalysisIn Mann & Thompson (eds).
Text description: diverse analyses of a fund raisi~g textAmsterdam: Benjamins.
Forthcoming.Matthiessen, C. 1981.
A Grammar and a Lexicon for a Te?t~Production System In TheProceedings of the 19th Annual Meeting of the Association lor Computational LillguisticsMatthiessen, C. 1983.
Choosing primary lense in English.
Foundations of Language, 73Mattbiessen, C. 1987 Notes on the organization of the environnlent of a text generationgrammar.
In Kempen ted.).
Also as USC ISI/RS-87-177.Matthiessen, C. 1989.
A systemic semantics: the chooser and inquiry framework.
It; 8enson,Cummings & Greaves (eds.
), Systemic Functional Approaches to Discourse: Selected Papersfrom the Twelfth International Systemic Workshop No,wood: Ablex.
Also as USC ISI/RS-87-189.Matthiessen, C. 1889.
Systemic theory and text generation: some cenha\[ design considerationsIn Proceedings of Australla-Japan Joinl Symposium on Naturai Language processing,Melbourne University, Melbourne, Nov. 27-g, 1989.Malthiessen, C. 8, S. Thompson.
1987.
The Structure of Discourse and "Subordination".
USCISIIRS-87.~83.
Also in Haiman & Thompson (eds.
), 1989 Clause combining in grammar anddiscourse.
Amsterdam: Beniamins.Paris, C. & K. McKeown.
1987.
Discourse strategies for describing complex physical objecls InG.
Kempen ted.
).Patten, T. 1998.
Systemic text generation as problem solving.
Cambridge: Cambridge UniversityPress.Tung, Y-W, C. Matthiessen & N. Sondheimer.
1988.
On Parallelism and the Penman NaturalLanguage Generation System.
USC, ISI/RR-98-195.Turner, G. 1973.
Social class and children's language of control at age five and age seven.
InBernstein ted.).
Class, Codes and Control 2: appfied studies towards a sociology of languageLondon: Routledge & Kegan Paul.1 Traditionally, semantics has tended to be modelled from the point of view of comprehension,by reference to rules for interpreting syntactic structures.2 The two directions pertain to the design of the semantics, not to the direction in the flow ofcontrol.
Encoding and decoding are thus not to be equated with generative and interpretivesemantics.
Both generative and interpretive semantics are essentially decoding in that theyreflect the categories of grammar rather than contextual categories.3 Tile survey here is thus not exhaustive; in text generators, we also find the use of parallel,co-ordinated taxonomies (as in Jacobs, 1985), unification of semantic and grammaticalinformation (cf.
McKeown, 1982), and augmented phrase structure rules (cf.
Sowa, 1983).The system network guides the generation process.
In the course of generation, the systemnetwork is traversed from left to right, that is, from more general options towards the morespecific ones that become reachable once the more general ones have been chosen (see the'traversal direction' in Figure 1 below).
Any feature may have a realization statement associatedwith it; that is, a statement that specifies how the choice of the feature is realized structurally(no realization statements are shown in the network in Figure 1).
For instance, the feature'declarative' is realized (in English) by the relative ordering of Subject before Finite (pigs canfly), while 'yes/no interrogative' is realized by the relative ordering of Finite before Subject(can pigs fly).
As an option is chosen, any realization statements associated with it areexecuted, which means that a fragment is added to the grammatical structure being built as arealization of the selections.
As the system network is traversed from left to right, structuralspecifications are accumulated until the network has been fully traversed and the structure fullyspecified by the realization statements that have been encountered and executed along the way.4 If inquiries are interpreted as being concerned with choice conditions (cf.
Matthiessen,1988), we can see that these choice conditions are comparable to Fawcett's (1984: 166; 1983:section 3.2) procedural felicity conditions in his systemic model.5 i have glossed inquiries by using names such as Question?
and Precede?
and by using informalEnglish questions, which is helpful in developing a design of a large system such as the Nigelgenerator.
However, as part of an automatic text-generation system, inquiries are alsoImplemented: the steps for testing an inquiry to see which response is appropriate are spelledout in the generation programme (for more details on generation, see Nebel & Sondheimer, 1986).Thus, for instance, the source of the response to 'Posssesion?
(Henry horse)' -o 'is therelationship between Henry and horse one of generalized possession, i.e.
one of ownership,meronymy, close social association, etc.'
-- might be derived ultimately from a relation in a database.
One important point here is that it is possible to specify different implementations ofinquiries reflecting different types of representation of the information that will be the basis ofthe responses.
This information might be represented in say an extended predicate calculusnotation or in terms of some kind of frame-based network.
In the current version of the Penmansystem of which the Nigel grammar and its chooser and inquiry interface form one part, there is aspecial simple notation for specifying the kinds of information the inquiries need (SPL or sentenceplanning language).6 This does not mean that the various situation-specific semantic systems cannot be derivedfrom a generalized semantic systems, but I won't discuss this important issue here.7 We might undertake this project to test the model, possibly as a pilot for future work.
Thecomputer would simulate the mother.
In other text generation situations, such as expert systemexplanation, the computer's social role is more likely to be that of a computer.329
