Enjoy the Paper: Lexical Semantics via LexicologyTed Briscoe & Ann Copestake Bran BoguraevComputer Laboratory, Cambridge University IBM Thomas J. Watson Research CenterPembroke Street, Cambridge, CB2 3QG, UK PO Box 704, Yorktown Heights, New York 10598, USAAbstract: Current research being undertaken at bothCambridge and IBM is aimed at the construction ofsubstantial lexicons containing lexical semantic informationcapable of use in automated natural language processing(NLP) applications.
This work extends previous researchon the semi-automatic extraction of lexical informationfrom machine-readable versions of conventionaldictionaries (MRDs) (see e.g.
the papers and references inBoguraev & Briseoe, 1989; Walker et al, 1988).
Themotivation for this and previous research using MRDs isthat entirely marina1 development of lexicons for practicalNLP applications ks infeasible, given the labour-intensivenature of lexicography (e.g.
Atkins, 1988) and theresources likely to he allocated to NLP in the foreseeablefuture.
In tiffs paper, we motivate a particular approach tolexicai semantics, briefly demonstrate its computationaltractability, and explore the possibility of extracting thelexical information this approach requires from MRDs and,to some extent, textual corpora.1.
Lexlcal SemanticsA theory of lexical semantics should provide anefficient representation f lexical semantic information inthe paradigmatic plane which is capable of integrating witha genuinely compositional semantic account in thesyntagmatic plane.
Our starting point for this research isthe work of Levin (e.g.
1985) and others on verbalalternations (diathesis), Pustejovsky (e.g.
1989) on lexicalcoercion and qualia theory, and Evans & Gazdar (e.g.1989) on default inheritance within unification-basedformalisms.
It can be seen as a further contribution to theuse of unification-based formahsms in linguistic descriptionand specifically as an enriching of the minimal sort-basedlexical semantic taxonomy incorporated into the EspritACORD system (Moens et al, 1989) and the SRI(Cambridge) CLE system (Alshawi et al, 1989).
Wepropose a system in which a standard graph-basedunification formalism, such as PATR-II, is augmented withminimal disjunction (of atomic terms) and minimal defaultinheritance (allowing only 'orthogonal' multiple inheritancein a manner similar to Evans & Gazdar's DATR).
Usingsuch a system we are able to see the beginnings ofsolutions to three problems concerning the integration oflexical semantics with a general theory of linguisticdescription and processing - alternations, coercion, anddecomposition / representation.The first problem emerges with systems, such as theAlvey Tools grammar (Carroll & Grover, 1989), whichattempt to characterise the grammatical behaviour oflexical items in terms of sets of subcategorisation frames.Intuitively, this often seems arbitrary and inelegant becausethe occurrence of alternation seems to be semanticallymotivated.
This problem has been discussed in connectionwith w~rbs mostly, but also arises with nouns andadjectiw'~a.
For instance, in the Tools lexicon the verbbelieve has eight entries.
Six of these separate ntries relateto the same or a very similar sense of believe; namely,believe3 (Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English,LDOCE) 'to hold as an opinion; suppose' which is arelatlon between an individual (the believer) and aproposition (what is believed).
Treating the variousgrammatical realisations of this sense of believe separatelypredicts that it is pure accident hat they share the samesense.
It also suggests that the range of possiblealternations is unpredictable and must simply be listedfrom verb to verb.
Most of the work on alternations hasconcentrated on attempts to characterise semantic lassesof verbs which undergo similar alternations (e.g.
Levin,1985).
This enterprise has not been particularly successful(Boguraev & Briscoe, 1989b), but in any case ignores orsimply assumes the prior point that it is possible toconstruct a system in which there is just one entry forbelieve3.Nevertheless, it seems correct that examples like Johnbelieved that Mary was clever / Mary (to be) clever /Mary / the rumour should be related to one entry forbelieve because this would allow us to account for theinterpretation of John believed Mary as something like'John believed something(s) that Mary asserted'; thai: is, asstanding for some 'understood' proposition involvingMary.
Pustejovsky (1989b) refers to this process ascoercion and compares it to examples such as Johnconsiders Mary a genius where it is usual (e.g.
in GPSG,Gazdar et al, 1985) to claim that a genius functionspredicatively because the subcategorisation frame forconsider forces this interpretation.
In general, coercion is aproblem in theories which take the syntactic aspect ofgrammatical realisation as primary, but would be a naturalconsequence of a theory which took the sense and rite factthat believe3 is a relation between an individual and aproposition as basic.
In such an account an NPcomplement of a verb denoting a relation between anindividual and a proposition would either denote aproposition 'directly' (the rumour) or be coerced to theappropriate semantic type (Mary).When coercion occurs some additional information isrequired to 'flesh out' the elevated semantic type of thecomplement.
Pustejovsky (1989) dubs this logicalmetonymy.
In the case of believed Mary this is that it issome assertion of Mary's which is believed.
Thisinformation appears to be inherited from the verb.
In othercases, such as John enjoyed (watching) the film, Johnbegan (reading) the book, or John finished (drinking) thebeer, it is more plausible that the missing information isprovided by the lexical specification of the; NPcomplements (cf: John enjoyed (drinking) the beer, Johnfinished (reading) the book).
Pustejovsky (1989, 1989b)and Pustejovsky & Anick (1988) propose that the lexicalrepresentation of nouns is enriched to include aspecification of processes typically associated with theobjects they denote and that, in cases of coercion, thisinformation is utilised.
In their terms, this is the tdic roleof the qualia structure of the noun.We see the inheritance of this information from theverb or complement as a default process which operates inthe absence of more marked pragmatic information.
Forexample, one would normally enjoy (watching) the play,but it would not be difficult to construct a discoursecontext in which someone (say lecturer or student) enjoyed1 42(reading) the play, and so forth.
So we propose that enjoyin this sense is a relation between an individual and mlevent m-Kl that, by default, nouns such as fihn or playinherit 'watch' as a specitication of the typical event(process) in which they participate.
The entry for enjoywill, also by default, state that in cases of coercion thespecification of the process will be imherited from thenominal comt)lement.
In cases where tim defanlt isoverriddm,, by pragmatic information more specificinstances of the entries tot enjoy and/or play are created inwhich the defaults are replaced by pragmaticallyappropriate ';pecitications.
(The precise nature of theprocesses which trigger this or the retxicval of tile relevantintbrnmtion we take to be a lmrt of 'pragmatics' and notlexical semantics,)One tinal (mostly methodological) tx~int is that theapproach we are advocating provides a slightly differentviewtxfinl on the problem of lexical decomposition /represenlation.
Early approaches to lexical semmltics withinthe generative hadition were criticised for the ,'ubitrarinessof the representations produce*t. Following Dowry (1979),Pustojevsky (1989) and others, we suggest that onestrategy for uncovering the optimal lexical representation,or level of 'decomposition', is to tx)sit representationswhich provide elegant accounts of the interaction of lexiegdsemantics with grammatical realisation and withcomtmsitional semantics.
Pursuing this methodology, wehave been led to a model of lexical semantic representationwhich suppo~ts a (somewhat emichexl) comt?
)sitionalaccount of (sentence) meaumg by enrichhlg lexieal~epresentations of nouns and collapsing those for verbswith alternate grammatical realisations.
In this framework,there arc.
still many inferences which are not captured "tl.the level of lexiea\] organisatien, bu!
we argtlt' that theseinferences are.
'pragmatic' i~l the sense  t\]la\[ they art: lh)fb'v-;ed on default processes operating within tim lexicon.Ttms, our position is OplX~S~{.d la lha:: of flobbs ct a1.
(1987)who argue that there is no disti~ction between lexicalsemantic:~ and general knowledge, hi our approach, simpledefault 'lexicat' ifderence l~,rocedure.s do quite a lot ofwork.
Of course, the way is always open to us to arguethat rely inference which cannot be captur~xl by theseprocedures is 'non default'.
New:Ilheless, in section 3 weargue thai this distinction is supt~;rted by natural data bothin terms of the fruity of non-default cases and also themarked, info~mationally-rich nature of the contexts inwhich lexical defanlts ark overridden.
Thus, our approachgives us a handle on which aslxacls el' k;xicN meaningsheukt be represented in the lexicon m~d therefore on thetype of information we wmat e extract from our MRI)s.anyObjPhysObj  Ar te fac t  Abst ract.S ,  ................. /"'..>",  "X "- " \| "-... " .
~Represent  at ion equat ion  lP?ta t?
l  cake2 Xsta tue l  \ lX L i te ra ture  V isua lRepbo6~k \] f i lm3Figure 12.
An ImplementationIt is possible to implement a system capable of'coercion and default specification using a unification-basedformalism extended with 'orthogonal' default inheritance of(paradigmatic) lexical specifications.
We also make use ofminimal disjm~ctive specifications to allow for the range ofgrammatical alternation within one sense of a tmxlicate.Our prototype extend,; PATRolI (Shieber, 1986) withdisjunction of atomic terms and uses the templatemechanism to imt?
)se a natural m~bsumption ordering onthe lcxical taxonomy which defines the inheritancenetwork.
The taxonomy implicit in the fragmentimplemented so far is shown in Figure 1. q\]fis t~monorny isadequate to cover the metonymies discussed in this paperand others discussed in Pustejovsky (1989).
(Numbers onconcepts are relatexl to LDOCE sense numbers.
)An entry for book is given in template from in Figure2a.
Its position in the network in Figure 1 defines thepattmn of inheritance for the qualia structme.Lexica\]  entry  for "book":book -- i N L i te ra ture  PhysObj ;Dag for "the book":\[ CAT : NPSEMt~'S : \[CAT : OBJTYPESHIFTED : FALSE \]TI~ANS: \[DET :DEFINITEPRED : BOOK1VAR: <DAG61> = REF25ARG!
: <DAG61>\]@UAL IA :\[ T S'I'\]:~,UC'.\[' :\[ '?
'RANS : \ [PRED : ?REAl:)VAR:  <DAG,62> =\ [ \ ]EVENT:  <DAG62>ARGI: <DAG63> =\[ \ ]ARG2: <DAG61>\]COMBINES:  \[ FIRST:\[T}{ANS : \ [VAR:<DAG63>\] \] \] \]\]Figure 2aThe relic role fur book is thus inheritexl i'om file defaultrole associated with 'Literature'.
The entry will also inheritreformation from 'PhysObj' lint the orthogonalityconst~aint rules out conflicts with the attributes inlmritedfrom 'Literature'.
In fact the template 'PhysObj' does notcontain any information about the telie part of the qualiastructure.The DAG for rite NP the book is "also shown in Figure2a.
This still denotes an object; when combined with anorrnal, non-amrcing verb the telic role makes nocontribution to the semantic structure.
However somegrmmnar ules allow type-shifting; one allows NPs with anassociated telic role to be type-shiftexl to be equivalent tountensed VPs mad to denote events,Figure 2b shows the NP after application of this rule.Once type-shifted, the logical formula associated with thebook is the same as that associated with reading ttw book,except that the question mark indicates defeasibility andcould be inteq)reted as 'possibly(P = read) & P(e' j x)'.2 43\[CAT:NPSEMFS:\[CAT:EVENTUALITYTYPESHIFTED:TELIC\]\]TRANS:\[PRED:ANDVAR:<DAG39>=REF26ARGI: \[DET:DEFINITEPRED:B00KIVAR: <DAG40>=REF25ARGI:<DAG40>\]ARG2: \[PRED:?READVAR:<DAG39>EVENT:<DAG39>ARGI:<DAG41>=\[\]ARG2:<DAG40>\]\]COMBINES: \[FIRST:\[TRANS:\[ VAR:<DAG41>\]\]\]Figure 2bIn (la) we show the formula which can be read off theDAG in Figure 2b given straightforward assumptions aboutthe semantic interpretation of the formalism (e.g.
Moore,1989).
The lexical entry for enjoy specifies that itscomplement must denote an event which can besyntactically an NP or progressive VP and that, if the NPis type-shifted, the relic role supplies the understoodpredicate.
The resulting formulae associated with the VPand S are shown in (lb,c).
(1)a) ~ x e' ~ y ?read(e' x y) & book(y)b) ~ x 3 e e' y past(e) & enjoy(e x e') &?read(e' x y) & book(y)c) 3 e e' y past(e) & enjoy(e j e') & ?read(e' j y) &book(y)We follow Hobbs (1985), Alshawi et al (1989),Moens et at.
(1989) and others in using an event-basedcalculus for reasons of computational tractability, and alsobecause distinctions amongst ypes of events are likely tobe important in the characrerisation of the recovery ofunc~rstood predicates in logical metonymies.
In a fulleraccount it would be possible to constrain the type of eventselected by a particular verb; for instance, enjoy might beconstrained to unify by default with the telic role of anorm if this specified a process or culminating event.
Thiswould predict the relative oddity of examples uch as Johnenjoys his house, in which we assume that the telic role issomettfing like 'living in' and that this specifies a staterather than process.
It would also be possible to alter theaspect of qualia structure selected by a particular verb.
Anexample like John regrets that book by default receives aninterpretation i  which 'writing' is selected to flesh out themetonyauy.
In this case, we might specify that regret, incontrast o enjoy, selects the agentive path in the noun'squalia structure.Another area in which this approach to lexicalsemantics i  suggestive relates to adjectival modification.
Itis well-known that adjectives uch as good, fast, long, andso forth, have meanings which are hard to specifyindependently of some 'aspect' of the noun they modify.Pustejovsky (1989) suggests that in examples like fast car,fast typist, or fast waltz, fast should be treated as amodifier of the telic role associated with these nouns, sothat: these examples can be paraphrased fast car to drive orfast waltz to dance.
The adjective long appears to be (atleast) ambiguous between a telic role modifier and aforrnal role modifier - a long book can either be acomment on shape, size or number of pages, or a commenton the length of time required for reading.
In the event-based calculus we adopt we could associate the logicalform in (2b) with the interpretation f (2a) where long is atelic role modifier.
(2)a) John enjoyed the long bookb) 3 e e' e" x y enjoy(e j e') & ?read(e' j y) &book(y) & long(e") & ?read(e" x y)However, note that it would be inappropriate toautomatically conflate the events e' and e" because thiswould predict that John's reading of the long book wasnecessarily a long event which, whilst plausible, is notentailed under this interpretation f long.
In order to avoidthis effect using unification-based techniques it is necessaryto explicitly copy the structure that specifies the telic role.We suggested in section 1 that NPs, such as the fact,can denote propositions 'directly'.
Similarly, we think thatthere is no metonymy involved in examples uch as Johnenjoyed the experience /film-making and so forth.
In thesecases, we claim that the NPs in question denote events'directly'.
Thus, we are lead to an 'ontologicallypromiscuous' semantics (Hobbs, 1985).
However, recentdevelopments in model-theoretic semantics which treatproperties as basic entities (e.g.
Chierchia & Turner, 1988)support this position.
Indeed the interpretation of event-denoting NPs in complement position with enjoy stronglysuggests that these NPs must be analysed as denotingpropositional functions ince their 'missing argument' mustbe associated with the subject of enjoy.
For instance, Johnlikes marriage can mean that John likes the institution butJohn enjoys marriage can only mean that he enjoys beingin the state of marriage (to someone).3.
Data concerning Logical MetonymlesThe previous sections have demonstrated the nature ofthe phenomenon of logical metonymy and have outlined acomputationally-tractable unification-based trealment.
Acrucial aspect of this treatment is that, with the predicateswe have considered, the missing information is supplied,by defatflt, by the qualia structure of the head noun in thetype-shifted complement.
In order to demonslrate thepresence of logical metonymies in naturally-occurring textand to evaluate the plausibility of our default approach, weexamined data drawn from the Lancaster-Oslo/Bergen(LOB) corpus containing predicates capable, in principle,of coercing the type of their complements.A set of type-coercing predicates imilar to enjoy wasobtained by extracting verbs coded to take both NP andprogressive or infinitive VP complements in LDOCE (seeBoguraev & Briscoe, 1989b for an account of these codesand the extraction techniques).
Further manual editing ofthis list led to 24 predicates which we felt were capable ofexhibiting logical metonymies parallel to that of enjoy.
Todate, we have analysed all the data obtainable from theLOB corpus for seven of these predicates.
The results ofthis analysis are summarised in Figure 3.
(Numbers afterpredicates refer to LDOCE sense numbers.
)44 3Pred Prog Inf NP Ev Met Pragenjoyl 6 / 59 21 25 4prefer 1 4 30 3(1 10 13 1finishl 8 / 31 8 23 6start/,3 45 28 63 42 21 0tmginl 1 5'1 11 8 3 2miss5 3 / ~A 10 13 4regret1 2 \] 17 14 0 0Figure 3Columns headext NP, lnf(initivc) and Prog(ressive) showthe number of times each predicate occurred with this tYtVeof complement.
(A stroke in fltese eolunms indicates thatthis complement ype w(mld be ungrammatical with aparticuh~r predicate.)
The remaining cohunns give furtherinformation about the NP complements.
Ev(cnt) indicatesthe ntlLmber of times that the NP complentent was judgexlto denote an event (or hi a few cases a proposition)directly: Met(onymic) indicates the ntunbar of times wejudged that coercion had occmred.
And Prag(matic)indicates the number of times that we judged theunderstood predicate was not recovered via the headnoun's qualia structure in the metonymic ases.
In somecases, the number of NP complenmnts i greater than thestun of Event and Metonyntic because we felt unable toclassify some exmnples.
These examples were either (senti)idiomatic, such as miss the boat, or involved NPs whosestatus was unclear because of modification of the headnorm, such as enjoy the warm evening.The first thing to note about Figure 3 is ritecomparatively high numbers of metonymic exmnplesrelative to the complete sets.
It is inslructive that theapparently more complex metonymic omplement patternis selected quite frequently despite the availability, with ~dlttmse 1)redicates, of an explicit VP complement pattern.
Forinstancx~, enjoy and moq~hological vmimlts occurs 65 timesin the relevant sense mid coerces its NP complement in 25of these cases.
The second and crucial ohse~v~,tion, fromthe perspective of our default theory of the recovery of theunderstood predicate in the metonymic eases, is that thenumbers in the 15ragmatic olumn m'e relatively low bycomp~dson with the total nuntber of metonynfic exmnples.Given the defimlt theory, we would expect mostrnetonymie xamples to be resolvable via the head noun'squalia structure and there to be relatively few 'pragmatic'examples involving less constrairted lind ntore complexinferences, and, in fact, these cases represent aixmt 17% ofthe metonymic examples and about 4% of the total set ofexanaples considered.
Further examination of these 17cases revealed that, in most, the hnmediate context wasinformationally-rich arid therefore marked enough for theappropriate pragmatic inference to go through.
Forexample, compare the a) examples with the b) examples in(3).
(3)a) Willie enjoyed the hot sweet te~h standing on thedeck in the cool of the nightb) Site can lie back and enjoy her baby tmtil themidwife, knowing the afterbirth is ready to pop out,a) Loddon paid Iris own account, finished lfiscigarette, and got up.b) The Ix)ok was never finished, for his illness ~mddeath intervened while he was in the course ofwriling it.a) If you prefer a Burgundy try a 1955 CharmesChambertin costing round 1 t?mnd.b) Then again so rnany t~ople much prefer the seaor river to the 1)aths.
Having learned to swim in thesea ...in each of the a) examples we think that the tm(terstoodpredica|c is supplied via the qualia structure of the headnoun in the NP complement, ht the b) cases, it seemsimplausible that the telic role of babies is to be cuddh;d, orthat seas or rivers are (mainly) for swinuning in.
"\['heagentiw."
role of book will specify the predicate 'wriuz', st)we could treat finish as selecting this role by defmdt m~dthis would, in fact, deal with four of the 'pragmatic' cases,but othexs would become 'pragmatic' since in ourimplementation only one unification path hato the qualiastructure c~m be selected by default.
However, hi each ofthese examples the context shown provides enoughinformation to infer the relevant predicate, it is not ~flwaystim case that the (remah~der of the) context provides therelevmit information or intuitively seems so 'rich' in thedefault cases./MLother way in which we can evaluate the defaulttheory is by considering the status of the predicates whichare supplied explicitly when a VP complement is selected.We might expect VPs to be selected precisely in thosesituations when defimlts based on qualia structtue wouldlead to the wrong intewretations.
We tested this idea byexmnining the VP complements of start.
In many cases,the prtxticates were intransitive, dilransitive, and so lbrth,so that rite hypothesis did not apply, tlowever, in thesrraiOtfforwardly trmtsitive cases 21 exmnptes exhibitedclear non-default pre(ficates, such as started to open thebottle, started to play a Waltz, or started flirting with thefirst pretty girl that you met, whilst only 4 cases arguablyinwglv~l defmflt predicates recoverable from the head~otm's qualia structure -- start making a fuss, started tofire disitress rockets, started pulling the commtmicationcord, artd started making bubbling twises.This analysis is hardly conclusive, however it doe';, wethink, demonstrate that logic~d metonymies occur quiteregularly with certain predicates in natural text.
We havealso provided some evklence that default inference basedon lexical organisation (in this case the qnalia structure ofnouns) would succeed in a large number of cases.Furtheimore, there seems to be some support in this datafor the claim that contexts in which 'pragmatic' recoveryof the understood predicate occurs are quiteinfbrmationally-rich mid would therefore constrain m~otherwise rather unconstrained process.
Finally, we haveshown that, in the case of start there is evidence that VPcomplenrentation is chosen when default recovery ofunderstood predicates on the basis of qualia structurewould lead to the wrong interpretation.4.
Acquiring Lexlcal Semantic InformationIn this section, we describe three exploratory studiesaimed at tile (semi-)automatic acquisition of qualiastructure, in particular telic roles, fTom lvlRDs.
The firstinvolves exploiting subject and box codes in the LDOCEMRD (see papers in Boguraev & Briscoe, 1989 fbr a fulldescription), while the second is based on an analysis ofthe LDOCE definitions.
These teclmiques are aimed atallowing qualia structure to be inherited appropriately; theflfird attempts to determine the predicates associated with aword by analysis of dictionary definitions and, to someextent, more general corpus material.4 45The machhae-readable version of LDOCE contains someresidual 'database-like' f atures which do not appear in theprinted dictionary.
These include a taxonomy of manywords in terms of 'subject matter'.
This taxonomy definesa ' fat '  hierarchy of, at most, two levels and manyrelationships are left implicit; for instance, 'sports' is amain extegory with subdivisions uch as 'archery' but'football' is a main category with subdivisions uch as'rugby'.
Nevertheless, this taxonomy can be used toidentify 'lexical conceptual paradigms' (Pustejovsky &Anick, 1988); for example, there is a class 'beverages'(147 word senses), a class 'motion pictures' (113 wordsenses), and a class 'literature' (377 word senses).
Thesewords c.ould straightforwardly be associated with the'deeper' inheritance network given in Figure 1 with defaulttelic (and possibly other) roles, such as 'drinking','watching' and 'reading' associated appropriately.
Thereare a few problems though, for instance the category'beverages' includes publican, and 'motion pictures'includes usherette.
It is possible to exclude these examplesfrom the target network by making use of box codeswhich, amongst other things, associate semantic featureswith nouns, because the exceptions are coded 'animate'and 'hmnan'.
Nevertheless, this approach is limitedbecause the LDOCE semantic taxonomy will undoubtedlynot contain all the classifications which eventually willprove desirable and there will be errors of omission in itsconstruction.
In addition, we are ufilising an idiosyncraticfeature of the LDOCE MRD, wlfilst we would like ourextraction techniques to be generally applicable.An improvement o this approach is to utilisetaxonomies constructed from the dictionary definitions.
Forexample we have built a taxonomy of substances byextracting the genus senses of LDOCE definitions in which145 word senses such as Burgundy appear directly orindirectly under the main nominal sense of drink.
We arecurrently investigating an approach whereby lexical entriesinherit some of their structure from higher nodes in thetaxonomy.
Qualia structure could thus be inherited fromword senses rather than abstract emplates; for exampleBurgundy would inherit its telic role from the noun drink.If abstract templates were still needed they could beinserted into the inheritance hierarchy at the appropriatepoints.The approaches above only specify how the qualiastructure is inherited, rather than how it is initiallydet~'mined.
In recent work, the IBM lexical systems grouphave used their lexical database system (e.g.
Neff &Boguraev, 1989) with a number of MRDs to generate listsof pre~licates which are applied to books by searchingthrough definition fields for the occurrence of book in aposition denoting 'typical object' of the headword.
Forinstance, LDOCE defines sag with '(of a book,performance, tc.)
to become uninteresting during part ofthe length'.
Using these techniques with three dictionariesresulted in the following list of verbs: abridge, abstract,annotate, appreciate, autograph, ban, bang about, borrow,bring out, burlesque, bowdlerize, call in, castigate,castrate, catalogue, censor, chuck away, churn out,classify, collate, commission, compile, consult, cross-index,dramatize, entitle, excoriate, expurgate, footnote, page,pirate.
It is obvious that this technique yields specific,often rare, predications with typical objects.
Whilst qualiastructure is likely to involve typical predications withspecific (classes of) nouns.In Order to automatically obtain typical (frequent)predications of book, four corpora were searched -LDOCE example sentences, the Brown corpus, 1.2 millionwords of Readers' Digest, and 26 million words of tapesfrom the American Publishing House for the Blind.Analysing those citations in which book occurs as directobject revealed that read and write are the two mostcommon predicates across the four corpora, although ~l~reare considerable differences within each corpus '~seeBoguraev et al, 1989 for details).
This approach could andshould be extended in several ways, for instance bydealing with semantically related nouns such as novel, and,of course, by attempting a similar analysis for many morenouns.
Nevertheless, these preliminary results do suggestthat a noun's qualia structure should be recoverable fromMRDs and corpora in a semi-automatic way.5.
ConclusionWe have attempted to motivate an approach to iexicalsemantics which enhances the representation f nouns interms of their qualia structure.
We have shown thatincorporating this information into a default inheritancehierarchy and enriching the notion of compositionality oallow for type-shifting of NPs allows for a computationallytractable and plausible account of logical metonymy.
Wehave, however, said very little about what qualia structureis.
Whilst Pustejovsky (1989) relates this idea back toAristotle's four causes, we think that for the purposes ofthe computational implementation described above we needonly assume that qualia structure constitutes (part of) thelexical information associated with a word sense, in thesense that it is the information which is most accessiblegiven the organisation of the inheritance network.
Onecould imagine that other more general or 'encyclopedic'information concerning concepts would simply be lessaccessible or 'dose' in terms of the same network.
Thepreliminary work with MRDs/corpora suggests that bothtypes are recoverable semi-automatically.6.
ReferencesAlshawi, H., Carter, D., van Eijck, J., Moore, R., Moran,D., Pereira, F., Pulman, S. & Smith, A.
1989.
FinalReport: Core Language Engine.
SRI (Canlbridge)Technical Report, Project No.
2989.Atkins, B.T.
1988.
Course Notes.
ESF Summer School onAutomating the Lexicon.
To appear in Atldns, B.T.
&Zampelli, A. Automating the Lexicon, Oxford UniversityPress, Oxford.Boguraev, B & Briscoe, E. 1989.
ComputationalLexicography for Natural Language Processing.Longman/Wiley, London/New York.Boguraev, B.
& Briscoe E. 1989b.
Ufilising the LDOCEgrammar codes.
In Boguraev & Briscoe 1989.Boguraev, B., Byrd, R., Klavans, J.
& Neff, M. 1989.From structural analysis of lexical resources to se, manticsin a knowledge base.
IBM Research, Mimeo.Carroll, J.
& Grover, C. 1989.
The derivation of a largecomputational lexicon of English from LDOCE.
InBoguraev & Briscoe 1989.Chierchia, G. & Turner, R. 1988.
Semantics and propertytheory.
Linguistics & Philosophy, 11,261-302.Dowty, D. 1979.
Word Meaning and Montague Grammar.Reidel, Dordrecht.Evans, R. & Gazdar, G. 1989.
Inference in DATR.
Proc.of 4th Eur.
ACL., Manchester, pp.66-71.46 5Ga~'Aar, G., Klein, E., Pullum, G. & Sag, I.
1985.Generalized Ptwase Structure Grammar.
Blackwell,Oxford.Hobbs, J.
1985.
Ontological promiscuity.
Proc of 23rdACL., Chicago, pp.61-9.Hobbs, J., Croft, W., Davies, T., Edwards, D. & Laws, K.1987.
Commonsense metaphysics and lexical semantics.Computational Linguistics, 13, 241-50.Levin, B.
1985.
Lexical Semantics in Review.
MYYWorking Papers on the Lexicon & in Walker et al 1988.Moens, M., et al 1989.
Expressing generalisations inunification-based grammar formalisms.
Proc.
of 4th Eur.ACL., Manchester, pp.174-81.Moore, R. 1989.
Unification-based semantic interpretation.Proc.
of 27th ACL., Vancouver, pp.33-41.Neff, M. & Boguraev, B.
1989.
Dictionaries, dictionarygrammars and dictionary entry parsing.
Proc.
of27th ACL.,Vancouver, pp.91-101.Pustejovsky J.
1989.
Current Issues in ComputationalLexical Semantics.
Proc.
of 4th Eur.
ACL., Manchester,pp.xvii-xxv.Pustejovsy, J.
1989b.
Type Coercion and Selection.
Proc.of WCCFL VIII, Vancouver.Pustejovsky, J.
& Aniek, P. 1988.
On the semanticinterpretation of nominals.
Coling88, Budapest, pp.518-23.Shieber, S. 1986.
An Introduction to Unification-basedApproaches to Grammar, U. Chicago Press, Chicago.Walker, D., Zampolli, A.
& Calzohtri, N. 1988, in press.Automating the Lexicon: Research and Practice in aMultilingual Environment.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge.6 47
