Two Principles of Parse PreferenceJerry R. Hobbs and John BearArtificial Intelligence CenterSRI International1 In t roduct ionThe DIALOGIC system for syntactic, analysis and se-mantic translation ha~ been under development forover ten years, and during that time it has been usedin a number of domains in both database interfaceand message-processing applications.
In addition, ithas been tested on a number of sentences of linguis-tic interest.
Built into the system are facilities forranking parses according to syntactic and selectionalconsiderations, and over the years, as various kindsof ambiguity have become apparent, heuristics havebeen devised for choosing the preferred parses.
Ouraim in this paper is first to present a compendium ofmany of these heuristics and secondly to propose twoprinciples that seem to underlie the Jmuristics.
Thefirst will be useful to researchers engaged in buildinggrammars of similarly broad coverage.
The second isof psychological interest and may be a guide for es-timating parse preferences for newly discovered am-biguities for which we lack the experience to decideamong on a more empirical basis.The mechanism for implementing parse preferenceheuristics is quite simple.
Terminal nodes of a parsetree acquire a score (usually 0) from the lexical entryfor the word sense.
When a nonterminal node of aparse tree is constructed, it is given an initial scorewhich is the sum of the scores of its child nodes.
Var-ious conditions are checked during the constructionof the node and, as a result, a score of 20, 10, 3, -3,-10, or -20 may be added to the initial score.
Thescore of the parse is the score of its root node.
Theparses of ambiguous entences are ranked accordingto their scores.
Although simple, this method hasbeen very successful.
In this paper, however, ratherthan describe the heuristics in terms this detailed, wewill describe them in terms of the preferences amongthe alternate structures that motivated our scoringschemes.While these heuristics have arisen primarilythrough our everyday experience with the system, wehave done small empirical studies by hand on someof the ambiguities, using several different kinds oftext, including some from the Brown corpus and sometranscripts of spoken dialogue.
We have counted thenumber of occurrences of potentially ambiguous con-structions that were in accord with our claims, andthe number of occurrences that were not.
Some ofthe constructions were impossible to find, not onlybecause they occur so rarely but also because manyare very difficult for anyone except a dumb parser tospot.
But in every case where we found examples, thenumbers upported our claims.
We present our pre-liminary findings below for those eases where we havebegun to accumulate a nontrivial number of examples.2 Br ie f  Rev iew o f  the  IAtera-tu reMost previous work on parse preferences has con-cerned itself with tile most notorious of theambiguities--the attachment ambiguities of postmod-ifiers.
Among the first linguists to address this prob-lem was Kimball (1973).
tie proposed several process-ing principles in an attempt o account for why certainreadings of ambiguous entences were more salientthan others.
Two of these principles were Right As-sociation and Closure.In the late 1970s and early 1980s there was a greatdeal of work among linguists and psycholinguists (e.g.Frazier and Fodor, 1979; Wanner and Maratsos, 1978;Marcus, 1979; Church, 1980; Ford, Bresnan, and Ks-plan, 1982) attempting to refine Kimbali's initial anal-ysis of syntactic bias and proposing their own prin-ciples govering attachment.
Frazier and Fodor pro~posed the principles of Minimal Attachment and Lo-cal Association.
Church proposed the A-over-A EarlyClosure Principle; and Ford, Bresnan and Kaplan imtroduced the notions of Lexical Preference and FinalArguments.The two ideas that dominated their hypothesesand discussions were Right Association, which saysroughly that postmodifiers prefer to be attached tothe nearest previous possible head, and a strongerprinciple stipulating that argument interpretationsare favored over adjunct interpretations.
This latterprinciple is implied by Frazier and Fodor's Minimal162  \]Attachment and also by Ford, Bresnan and Kaplan'sLexical Preference.In recent computational linguistics, Shieber andPereira (Shieber, 1983; Pereira, 1985) proposed ashift-reduce parser for parsing English, and showedthat Right Association was equivalent to preferringshifts over reductions, and that Minimal Attachmentwas equivalent to favoring the longest possible reduc-tion at each point.More recently, there have been debates, for exam-ple, between Schubert (1984, 1986) and Wilks et al(1985), about the interaction of syntax with seman-tics and the role of semantics in disambiguating theclassical ambiguities.We take it for granted that, psychologically, syn-tax, semantics, and pragmatics interact very tightly toachieve disambiguation.
I  fact, in other work (Hobbset al, t988), we have proposed an integrated frame-work for natural language processing that provides forthis tight interaction.
However, in this paper, we areconsidering only syntactic factors.
In the semanticallyand pragmatically unsophisticated systems of today,these are the most easily accessible factors, and evenin more sophisticated systems, there will be examplesthat semantic and pragmatic factors alone will fail todisambiguate.The two principles we propose mawr be viewed asgeneralizations of Minimal Attachment and Right As-sociation.3 Most  Rest r ic t ive  ContextThe first principle might be called the Most Restric-tive Context principle.
It can be stated as follows:Where a constituent can be placed in twodifferent structures, favor the structure thatplaces greater constraints on allowable con-stituents.For example, inJohn looked for Mary.
"for Mary" can be interpreted as an adverbial signal-ing the beneficiary of the action or as a complement ofthe verb "look".
Since virtually any verb phrase cantake an adverbial whereas only a very few verbs cantake a "for" prepositional phrase as its complement,the latter interpretation has the most restrictive con-text and therefore is favored.A large number of preferences among ambiguitiescan be subsumed under this principle.
They are enu-merated below.1.
As in the above example, favor argument overadverbial intepretations for postmodifying preposi-tional phrases where possible.
Thus, whereas inJohn cooked for Mary.
"for Mary" is necessarily an adverbial, in "Johnlooked for Mary" it is taken as a complement.
Sub-sumable under this heuristic is the preference of "by"phrases after passives to indicate the agent ratherthan a location.
This heuristic, together with the nexttype, constitutes tile traditional Minimal Attachmentprinciple.
This heuristic is very strong; of 47 occur-rences examined, all were in accord with tile heuristic.2.
Favor arguments over mere modifiers.
Thus, inJohn bought a book from Mary.the favored interpretation is "bought from Mary"rather than "book from Mary".
Where tile head nounis also subcategorized for the preposition, as in,John sold a ticket to the theater.this principle fails to decide among the readings, andtile second principle, described in the next section,becomes decisive.This principle was surprisingly strong, but perhapsfor illegitimate reasons.
Of 75 potential ambiguities,all but one were in accord with the heuristic.
The oneexception wasIIDTV provides television images with finerdetail than current systems.and even this is a close call.
However, it is often veryuncertain whether we should say verbs, nouns, andadjectives subcategorize for a certain preposition.
Forexample, does "discussion" subcategorize for "with"and "about"?
We are likely to say so when it yieldsthe right parse and not to notice the possibility whenit would yiehl the wrong parse.
So our results heremay not be completely unbiased.3.
Favor complement interpretations of infinitivesover purpose adverbial interpretations.
InJohn wants his driver to go to Los Angeles.the preferred interpretation has only the driver andnot John going to Los Angeles.Of 44 examples of potential ambiguities of this sortthat we found, 41 were complements and only 3 werepurpose adverbials.
Even these three could have beeneliminated with the simplest seleetional restrictions.One example was the followingtie pushed aside other business to devote allhis time to this issue.2 163which could have been parsed analogously toHe pushed strongly all the young researchersto publish papers on their work.A particularly intriguing example, remembering that"provide" can be ditransitive, is the following:That is weaker than what the Bush admin-istration needs to provide the necessarytax revenues.4.
Favor the attachment of temporal prepositionalphrases to verbs or event nouns.
In the preferred read-ing ofJohn saw the President during the cam-paign.the seeing was during the campaign, since "President"is not an event noun.
In the preferred reading ofThe historian described the demonstrationsduring Gorbachev's visit.the demonstrations are during the visit.
This case canbe considered an example of Minimal Attachment ifwe assume that all verbs and event nouns have poten-tial temporal arguments.
Of 74 examples examined,66 were in accord with this heuristic.
Two that didnot involved the phrase "business in~e August 1".5.
Favor adverbial over object interpretations oftemporal and measure noun phrases.
Thus, inJohn won one day in Hawaii.
"one day in tIawaii" is preferentially the time Johnwon and not his prize.
InJohn walked 10 miles.
"10 miles" is a measure of how far he walked, notwhat he walked.
This is an example of Most Restric-tive Context because noun phrases, based on syntacticcriteria alone, can always be the object of a transi-tive verb, whereas only temporal and measure nounphrases can function as adverbials.
This case is in-teresting because it runs counter to Minimal Attach-ment.
Here arguments are disfavored.Of fifteen examples we found of such ambiguities,eleven agreed with the heuristic.
The reason for thelarge percentage of examples that did not is thatsports articles were among tlmse examined, and theycontained sentences likeSmith gained 1240 yards last season.This illustrates the hidden dangers in genre selection.6.
Favor temporal nouns as adverbials over coin-pound nominal heads.
The latter interpretation ispossible, as seen inIs this a CSLI Thursday?But the preferred reading is the temporal one that ismost natural inI saw the man Thursday.7.
Favor "that" as a complementizer rather than asa determiner.
Thus, inI know that sugar is expensive.we are probably not referring to "that sugar".
Thisis a case of Most Restrictive Context because thedeterminer "that" can appear in any noun phrase,whereas the complementizer "that" can occur onlyafter a small number of verbs.
This is a heuristic wesuspect everyone who has built a moderately largegrammar has implemented, because of the frequencyof the ambiguity.8.
An initial "there" is interpreted as an existential,where possible, rather than as a locative.
We interpretThere is a man in the room.as an existential declarative sentence, rather thanas an utterance with an initial locative.
Locativescan occur virtually anyplace, whereas the existential"there" can occur in only a very small range of con-texts.
Of 30 occurrences examined, 29 were in accordwith the heuristic.
The one exception wasThere, in the midst of all those casinos, is'Ptump's Taj Mahal.9.
Favor predeterminers over separate nounphrases.
InSend all the money.the reading that treats "all the" as a complex deter-miner is favored over the one that treats "all" as aseparate complete noun phrase in indirect object po-sition.
There are very many fewer loci for predeter-miners than for noun phrases, and hence this is alsoan example of Most Restrictive Context.10.
Favor preprepositional lexical adverbs over sep-arate adverbials.
Thus, inJohn did the job precisely on time.we favor "precisely" modifying "on time" rather than"did the job".
Very many fewer adverbs can func-tion as preprepositional modifiers than can functionas verbal or sentential adverbs.
Of 28 occurrences ex-amined, all but one were in accord with the heuristic.The one wasWho is going to type this all for you?_ k164 311.
Group numbers with prenominal unit nounsbut not with other prenominal nouns.
For example,"I0 mile runs" are taken to be an indeterminate num-ber of runs of l0 miles each rather than as exactly l0runs of a mile each.
Other nouns can firnction thesame way as unit nouns, as in "2 car garages", t)ut itis vastly more common to have the mlmber attachedto the head noun instead, as in "5 wine glasses".
Vir-tually any noun can appear as a prcnominal noun,whereas only unit nouns can appear in the adjectival"10-mile" constrnction.
Iience, for unit nouns this isthe most restrictive context.
While other nouns can..~ometirnes occur in this context, it is only through areinterpretation as a unit noun, as in ';2 car garages".12.
Disfavor headless tructures.
Headless struc-l.nres impose no constraints, and are therefore neverthe most re,~trictive context, and thus are the least fa-vored in cases of ambiguity.
An example of this casei,~ the sentenceJohn knows the best man wins.which we interpret as a concise form ofJohn knows (that) the best man wins.rather than aq a concise form ofJohn knows the best (thing that) man wins0.4 At tach  Low and Para l le lThe second principle might be called the Attach Lowand Parallel principle.
It may be stated as follows:Attach constituents as low as possible,and in parallel with other constituents ifpos-sible.The cases subsumed by this principle are quite het-erogeneou S.1.
Where not overridden by the Most RestrictiveContext principle, favor attaching postmodifiers tothe closest possible site, skipping over proper nouns.Thus, where neither the verb nor the noun is subcat-egorized for the preposition, as inJohn phoned a man in Chicago.or where both the verb and the noun are subcatego-rized for the preposition, as inJohn was given a book by a famous profes-SOILthe noun is favored as the attachment point, since thatis the lowest possible attachment point in tile parsetree.
This case is just tile traditional Right Associa-tion.The subcase of prepositional phrases with "of" issignificant enough to be mentioned separately.
Wemight say that every noun is subcategorized for "of"and that therefore "of" prepositional phrases arenearly always attached to the immediately precedingword.
Of 250 occurrences examined, 248 satisfied thisheuristic, and of the other twoSince the first reports broke of the CIA's ac-tivities, .
.
.He ordered the destruction two years ago ofsome records.tile second would not admit an incorrect attachment.in any case.We examined 148 instances of this case not involv-ing "of", temporal prepositional phrases, or preposi-tions that are subcategorized for by possible attach-ment points.
Of these, 116 were in accord with theheuristic and 32 were not.
An example where thisheuristic failed wasThey abandoned hunting for food produc-tion.For a significant number of examples (34), it did notmatter where the attachment was made.
For instance,inJohn made coffee for Mary.both the coffee and the making are for Mary.
Wecounted these cases as being in accord with the heuris-tic, since the heuristic would yield a correct interpre-tation.This is perhaps the place to present results on twovery simple algorithms.
The first is to attach prepo-sitional phrases to the closest possible attachmentpoint, regardless of other considerations.
Of 251 oc-currences examined, 125 attached to the nearest pos-sibility, I09 to the second nearest, 14 to the third, and3 to the fourth, fifth, or sixth.
This algorithm is notespecially recommended.The second algorithm is to attach to the near:est possible attachment point that subeategorizes forthe preposition, if there is such, assuming verbs andevent nouns to subcategorize for temporal preposi-tional phrases, and otherwise to attach to the nearestpossible attachment point.
This is essentially a sum-mary of our heuristics for prepositional phrases.
Of297 occurrences examined, this yielded the right an-swer on 256 and the wrong one on 41.4 1652.
Favor preprepositional readings of measurephrases over readings as separate adverbials.
Thus,inJohn walked 10 miles into the forest..we preferentially take "10 miles" as modifying "intothe forest" rather than "walked", so that John isnow 10 miles from the edge of the forest, rather thanmerely somewhere in tile forest but 10 miles from hisstarting point.
Since the preposition occurs lower inthe parse tree than the verb, this is an example ofAttach Low and Parallel.
Note that this is a kind of"Left Association".3.
Coordinate "both" with "an~", if possible,rather than treating it a~s a separate determiner.
InJohn likes both intelligent and attractivewomen.the interpretation in which there are exactly twowomen who are intel!igmit and attractive is disfa-vored.
Associating "both" with the coordinated ad-jectives rather than attaching it to the head noun isattaching it lower in the parse tree.4.
Distribute prenominal nouns over conjoinedbead nouns.
In "oil sample and filter", we mean "oils,-~i,q>le and oil filter".
A principle of Attach Lowwo,.~i,:l not seem to be decisive in this case.
Would~{.
~,e~m that we attach "oil" low by attaching it to"sample" or that we attach "and filter" low by at-taching it to "sample".
It is because of examples likethis (and the next case) that we propose the principleAttach Low and Parallel.
We favor the reading thatcaptures the parallelism of the two head nouns.5.
Di~.t.ri}mte determiners and noun complementsover conjoined head nouns.
In "the salt and pepper onthe table", we treat "salt" and "pepper" as conjoined,rather than "the salt" and "pepper on the table".
Asin the previous case, where we have a choice of what toattach low, we favor attaching parallel elements low.6.
Favor attaching adjectives to head nouns ratherthan prenominal nouns.
We take "red boat house"to refer to a boat house that is red, rather than toa house for red boats.
Like all of our principles, thispreference can be overridden by semantics or conven-tion, as in "high stress job".
IIere again we couldinterpret Attach Low ~ telling us to attach "red" to"boat" or to attach "boat" to "house".
Attach Lowand Parallel tells us to favor the latter.5 Interaction and OverridingThere will of course be many examples where bothof our principles apply.
In the cases that occurwith some frequency, in particular, the prepositionalphrase attachment ambiguities, it seems that theMost Restrictive Context principle domina.tes AttachLow and Parallel.
It is unclear what the interacti6nsbetween these two principles should be, more gener-ally.These principles can be overridden by more thanjust semantics and pragmatics.
Comma.s in writtendiscourse and pauses in spoken discourse (see Bearand Price, 1990, on the latter) often function to over-ride Attach Low and Parallel, as inJohn phoned the man, in Chicago.Specify the length, in bits, of a word.It is the phoning that is in Chicago, and the specifica-tion is in bits while the length is of a word.
Similarly,commas and pauses can override the Most RestrictiveContext principle, as inJohn wants his driver, to go to Los Angeles.Itere we prefer the purpose adverbial reading in whichJohn and the driver both are going to Los Angeles.6 Cognitive Significance;The analysis of parse preferences in terms of thesetwo very general principles is quite appealing, andmore than simply because they subsume a. great manycases.
They seem to relate somehow to deep princi-ples of cognitive conomy.
The Most Restrictive Con-text principle is a matter of taking all of the availableinformation into account in constructing interpreta-tions.
The "Low" of Attach bow and Parallel is aninstance of a general cognitive heuristic to interpretfeatures of the enviromnent ~ locally as possible.
The"Parallel" exemplifies a general cognitive heuristic tosee similarity wherever possible, a heuristic that pro-motes useful generalizations.AcknowledgementsThe authors would like to express their gratitude toPaul Martin, who is responsible for discovering someof the heuristics, and to Mark Liberman for sendingus some of the data.
The research was funded by tileDefense Advanced Research Projects Agency underOffice of Naval Research contract N00014-85-C-0013,and by a gift from tile Systems Development Founda-tion.166 5References\[1\] Bear, John, and Jerry }Iobbs, 1988, "LocalizingExpression of Ambiguity", Proceedings of the Sec-ond Conference on Applied Natural Language P~v-cessing, Austin, 'I~xas, pp.
235-241.\[2\] Bear, John, and Patti Price, 1990, "Prosody, Syn-tax and Parsing", Proceedings, 28th Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguis-t, ics, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.\[3\] Church, Kenneth, 1980.
"On Memory Limitationsin Natural Language Processing", MIT TechnicalReport MIT/LCS/TI{-245.\[4\] Ford, Marylyn, Joan Bresnan, and Ronald Ka-plan, 1982.
"A Competence-Based Theory of Syn-tactic Closure," in J. Bresnan (Ed.)
The Men-tal Representation of Grammatical Relations, MITPress: Cambridge, Massachusetts.\[5\] Frazier, Lyn and Janet Fodor, 1979.
"Tile SausageMachine: A New Two-Stage Parsing Model", Cog-nilion, Voh 6, pp.
291-325.\[6\] Ilobbs, Jerry R., Mark Stickel, Paul Martin, andDouglas Edwards, 1988.
"Interpretation as Abduc-tion", Proceedings, 26lh Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, pp.
95-103, Buffalo, New York, June 1988.\[7\] Kimball, John, 1973.
"Seven Principles of SurfaceStructure Parsing in Natural Language '' , CognitionVol.
2, No.
1, pp.
15-47.\[8\] Marcus, Mitchel, 1980.
A Theory of Syntac-tic Recognilion for Natural Language, MIT Press:Cambridge, Massachusetts.\[9\] Pereira, Fernando, 1985.
"A New Characteriza-tion of Attachment Preferences," in D. Dowry etal.
(Eds.)
Natural Language Processing, CambridgeUniver,~ity Press: Cambridge, England.\[10\] Schubert, Lenhart, 1984.
"On Parsing Prefer-ences", Proceedings, COLING 1984, Stanford, Cal-ifornia, pp.
247-250.\[11\] Schubert, Lenhart, 1986.
"Are There PreferenceTrade-offs in Attachment Decisions?"
Proceedings,AAAI 1986, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, pp.
601-605.\[12\] Shieber, Stuart, 1983.
"Sentence Disambiguationby a Shifl,-Reduce Parsing Technique", Proceedings,IJCAI 1983, Washington, D.C., pp.
699-703.\[13\] Wanner, Eric, and Michael Maratsos, 1978.
"AnATN Approach to Comprehension," in Halle, Bres-nan, and Miller (Eds.)
Linguistic Theory and Psy~chological Reality.
MIT Press: Cambridge, Mas.Jsachu.~etts.\[14\] Wilks, Yorick, Xiuming Ituang, and Dan Fass,1985.
"Syntax, Preference and Right Attachment",Proceedings, IJCAI 1985, Los Angeles, Califonfia,pp.
779-784.6 167
