O. Abstract*FROM COGRAM TO ALCO(~RAM:TOWARI )  A CONTROLLE I )  ENGI , IS I \ ] f  ( ;RAMMAR C I IECKERGEERT ADRIAENS \[1,2\] I)IRK SCIlREIlRS \[21\[ 11 Siemens-Nixdorf Software ('.enter LiSge, Rue des Foric.s 2, 4020 Liege, Belgium\[21 University of 1,eaven Ceuter for Couqmtational l.iuguistics,Maria-There, siastraat 21, 3000 Leaven, Belgiumgeert@et.kuleuven.ac.bcIn this l~q)er we describe the roots of ControUed English(CE), the analysis of several existing CE grammars, thedevelopment of a wcll-lbunded lS0-rule CE grammar(COGRAM), the elaboration of an algorithmic variant(ALCOGRAM) as a basis for NLP applications, the useof ALCOGRAM in a CAI program teaching writers howto use it effectively, aud the preparatory study into aControlled English grammar and style clmcker within adesktop ublishing (ITI~)) environmeut.1.
IntroductionThe use of controlled or simplified languages for textwriting is a controversial matter, maiuly because it isfelt as an attack of the writer's frecxlom of expression.Still, we see more and more attempts to introducecontrol and simplification in file text writing process,mostly integrated within intelligent ext processingenvironments and complex NLP appieations such asmachine translation (see 2. for an short overview).
Thereare at least two types of motivation that Imve led us andother researchers to pursuing this matter with renewedinteresLFirst, experience with large-scale NLP applications thatshould be capable of handling a wide rouge of inputs (inour case, the METAL MT system, used for thetranslation of technical and administrative t xt.s) hasshown that there are limits to fine-tuniug big grammarsto handle semi-grammatical or otherwise badly writtensentences.
The degree of complexity added to an alreadycomplex NLP grammar tends to lead to a deterioration foverall translation quality and (where relevant) speed.
Onthe other hand, simple pre-editing tools that e.g.
helpsplit up overly long seuteuces into shorter mills (a verymild way of simplifying the inpu 0 have proved to leadto amazing improvements in output quality for theapplication of METAL in administrative t xt translation(Deprez 1991).
In general, the avoidance of lexical,syntactic and stylistic ambiguities i  believed to makemachine translation or other NLP applications easier.Second, there is a growing need in internationalindustrial environments for standardizatiou andsimplification of written commnnieation; the experienceis that the language used in industrial documents such asmanuals needs a thorough revision to be used efficientlyby both native and (especially) non-native writers andreaders.
To ensure that the language of technicaldocuments i unambiguous, well-strnctured, economicaland easily translatable, controlled language has beenthought o be the solution, be it that this solution isThe research reported m this paper Itas been funded byAlcatel Bell in the period 1989-1991.often proprietary to a company and hence difficult toaccess by the NLP re ,arch  conmamity.In this paper, we repor t  {lit ongoing lesearch anddevelopment nf a Cnlltol lcd L:nglish graluular fortechnical documenlatioii (ctmrsl; nlaterlal and systemsdocunlenlatiou) ill the are+( of telecomnninlcation.
Westarted by examining three representative controlledgrammars (AECMA, Ericsson, IBM).
Fimling themiucmnplete and defective in numy ways, we developedour own controlled gfanlu|ar, COGRAM.
Since such apaper gumnuar is riot the most motivaling of texts lbrtechnical writers to use in tht: writing prtg:ess, wedccided to restructure it in an algorithurie way(ALCOGRAM) with an eye to using it in a cmnpnter-aided language learning tool toni a mote anthititmsgrammar and style checking program.
The firstapplication is finish(~l aml currently being lestcd at theAlcatel-Bcll company, We ;ire )alw dcsiguiug the checkerfor operation within the Interleaf I)TI' environment,which ahcady oflk;rs integrated ludinmntaty lexicalcontrol.But let us stall by giviltg a shm-t overview oi the historyand current application (if controlled English iu the NLPresearch ;rod the industrial communities.2.
The rnots of Contrnl led EnglishThe foundation lot most el the current CE umnnals wa.
'-;laid by the Catelpillar Tractm Company (Peoria,Illinois, USA) in the mido1960s.
This company(currently still active in the CE field) introducedCaterpillar Fundamental English (CFE), on which twosignificant derivatives, i.e.
Smart's t'lain EuglishPMgram (PEP) and White's International Laugnage l~nSc~ving and Maintenance (II~SAM) were based.
PEI'gave birth to grammars used by Clark, RnckwellInternational, and ltyster, while II,SAM can beconsidered the root of gramntars nscd by AECMA(Ass(v,:iadon EurolC,~enne de Constractears de Mat(.
'~iciA(~rospatial), IBM, Rank Xerox, and EricssmtTelecramuunieaLioas.
Nowadays, a ctmsidcrable nnmlr~:lof variants of Cmflrolled English can be |inmd in manycorporations.
In the USA, Boeing successlnlly uses anelaborate Simplified English Checker (SEC) to controlaircraft maintenance r porls (Wojcik ct al, 1990).
TheXerox Corporation uses Systran and ALPS inconjunction with a Controlled English input (Kingscott,1990).
In rile UK, Perkins Engiues introduced PelkinsApproved Clear English (PACE) to simplify theirpublications and to aid translation, whether carried outby conventional or computer-aided methods (Pyre,1988).
At Woll~mn College in Cambridge E. Johnsondeveloped Airspeak and Seaspeak, both restrictedlanguages.
Policespeak is currently being developed tnACrEs DI.
: COLING-92, NANIa!S, 23 28 AO(,q' 1992 5 9 5 I'ROC.
O~: COl,ING-92, NANq I!s, Air(i.
23-21;, 1992developed Airspeak and Seaspcak, both restrictedlanguages.
Policespeak is currently being developed toenable fast and accurate communication with the Frenchcounterparts when the Channel Tunnel opens in 1993(Jackson, 1990).
In the Netherlands, the BSO/DLTmachine-based translation project also benefits from thelinguistic confines and standardization f terminology(Van der Korst, 1986).
In the French TITUS system,control led language ("Langage DocumentaireCanonique") is used to improve machine translation ofabstracts of technical papers on textile fabrics (Ducrot1984).CFEPEPIClark, Rockwell, HysterILSAMIAECMA, IBM, Rank Xerox,Ericsson, Boeing SE, PerkinsEngines, B SO,fDLTFig.
1.
The Controlled English heritage treeSince the above-mentioned grammars have been adaptedto the individual needs of each company, they might - tosome extent - differ from one another.
Unfortunately,we were not able to get bold of any grammar of the PEPbranch.
Despite this limitation, three of the above-mentioned grammars, namely AECMA, EricssonEnglish, and the IBM manual were taken as the startingpoint from which our research and development in thedomain of CE could evolve.3, Pre l iminary  l inguistic studyAlthough our study of 3 CE grammars does not claim tobe exhaustive, it does reveal the structural dissimilaritiesbetween the AECMA, Ericsson, and IBM grammars.Moreover, it underscores some of the qualities anddeficiencies of each manual Concerning spelling, syntax,style, and other information such as completeness andreadability.
Whereas the English used in all threegrammars is good, the grammars differ in structureovertly.
The following subsections summarize the study(Lemmens 1989: 10).3.1 Spell ingSpellingword listnew words allowedfree compoundingspelling checkerAECMA ERICSSON IBMyes yes yesyes no nono no  nono no yesGrid 1 : SpellingAs to the lexical organization, all three manuals containa controlled vocabulary list.
In particular, EricssonEnglish uses a two-level exicon : Level 1 documentsmay only contain those lexical items that are marked 1,whereas Level 2 documents can be edited using a moreextended vocabulary.
In the IBM word list a marginal"!"
symbol indicates that "the word has some restriction,either a restriction to one meaning or a caution that theword is not at eight-grade l vel and should only be usedwith care."
Other words are preceded by a marginal "X"indicating "a  word to be avoided".All the words used in the three grammars must conformto the spelling used in the word lists.
EE prefers Britishspelling, whereas AECMA consistently uses Americanspelling rules as prescribed in the Webster dictionary.Obviously, as they were inspired by individual heritageand international business matters, each of thesecompanies have taken pragmatic decisions that matchtheir internal organization.To check lexical terminology and spelling in itsdocuments, IBM supports its writers by means of threecomputer-assisted instruction programs : WORDCHECKER II, SPELL 370, and PROOF.The AECMA grammar reveals a remarkable degree oflexical flexibility : "Besides the words in the dictionary,the writer can also use those words which he decidesbelong to one of two categories : either TechnicalNames or Manufacturing Processes" (AECMA : iv).Nevertheless, controlled rules tell whether or not a termbelongs to the field of Technical Words or aManufacturing Processes.
"Inhouse preferences" can be"defined in your company's house rules, or by youreditors" (AECMA : vi).
In a controlled grammar,however, you cannot deliberately add new meanings tothe vocabulary list, and transfer words from one lexicalcategory to another, e.g.
the Ericsson grammar demandsthat no new lexical items may be listed, unless theEricsson Standards Department gives permission to doso.
Similar authority holds for the IBM DPPGCustomer and Service Information.
Nevertheless,Ericsson describes a special procedure for using non-listed words : "If you need to use a new word that isuseful only in a very specialized context, give adefinition of the word in EE, in the document that youare writing.
If you need to give several definitions in thedocument, make an alphabetical list of the definitions atthe end of the document" (EE : 8).
The IBM grammarrestricts the use of new words heavily.
Writers can, ifreally necessary, use X-marked words, provided theyhave been defined and even illustrated in every line wherethey might be encountered for the first time, andpreferably in a glossary, as well.
All three manualsallow noun clusters or compounds, if the number ofnouns making up the cluster does not exceed three.Adding prefixes or suffixes to items listed in the lexiconis also not allowed.3.2 SyntaxSyntax AECMA ERICSSON IBMverb forms restricted restricted restrictedsubclause nothing limited very littlegrammar checker no no notense distribution nothing nothing nothinglinguistic basis weak weak weakdescriptive little little littleGrid 2 : SyntaxAcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTI~S, 23-28 AOUT 1992 5 9 6 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES.
AUt3.
23-28.
1992As to syntax control, Ericsson English states that "thetwo fundamental principles of writing are : the memfingmust be clear; the language must be simple" (EE : 8).Ericsson, AECMA, and IBM control more or lessidentical grammatical milts, notwithslanding eachcompany has its own way of simplifying syntax.
Allthree grammars control verb torms, but AECMASimplified English (SE) does not allow either a gerundor a participle.
EE only allows gerunds ("EE uses -ingwords ... as nouns to describe activities") and it "doe~snot use present participles or the continuous tenses".IBM in its turn lets file present participle function eitheras an adjective or as a noun.3.3 StyleStyle AECMA ERICSSON IBMpunctuation basic nothing basicsentence structure +/- little littleparagraph structure basic nothing nothingGrid 3 : StyleNext to some elementary ules of imnctuation coutrol,the EE grammar does not lbcus on stylistic control.AECMA Simplified English refers to some panctlmtion,and it discusses sentence l ngth, paragraph length, amlstructure.
IBM has a speciM Information DevelopmemGuidelines manual called "STYLE".
It goes withoutsaying that uniformity of style and layout eahances theoverall quality of documents in coutrollext language.3.4.
Miscel laneousOther information AECMA ERICSSON IBMcheck list no no nocompleteness no uo noreadability +/- ok goodGrid 4 : other iutonnatioaAt times, one of the three grammars prol?lses ..besides arule of control - valuable information, which cannot befound ill the other two grammars.
The AECMAgrammar, for example, instrncts the writer how tochange a passive sentence into an active one and statesthat no verbs should be left out to reduce rite sentencelength.
In addition, one particular grammar sometimesdoes not contain a rule of control which file two othershave : file Ericsson grammar does not refer to control ofarticles; AECMA and IBM do not take into accouutsubordinate clauses (except for controlling file participialadverbial subclause).
Still, although individuallyfocusing on syntax control, all three manuals areincomplete: since EE considers but a few aspects ofsubordinate clause control, the grammar evealsinsufficiency and incompleteness.
"llmre are nosatisfactory answers to questions uch as : What alxmtgapping and elliptic structures?
How about using zero-relative markers and zero-connectives?
Are sententialrelative clauses allowed?
Cau nominal relatives beused?
Tire rules of control are vague as, hlr instance, inthe EE statement "A comma divides a sentence into itsaatmat compoueuts and makes it easier to read".
Whatdoes "aataral COlnlRrUPAIIIS" ineau?
Numerous examplesof rules fllat are not well-defined or vague instructionsindubitably cause confusion and lead to grmnmaticalntistakes.3..~ Collc|llSi()llFirst of all, we concluded that "lhe liuguistic l(madationof these manuals are at times very weak:oversimplifications oth~n lemls to linguistic inaccuracies;frequently linguistic structures are not covered; theinstrnctious are at times vagtve ,'rod ambiguous; and ol/enthe rules disregard liuguistic reality" (Lemmens 1989 :i l l .Secoudly, in all three graimnars there is a lack of cleardistinction between descriptive aud normativeprinciples.
There is uo specification whether thes|ructmes to be avoided are uugrannnatical or simplynon..coutrolled.
Typical of tile three grammars i dienolmative "IX) not use" uleaning "Avoid".
Seldom - ifever - is dlis phrase used to show that the writer shouldnot use a construction becan~ it is ungrammatical.
Forexanlple, tile rules for distributing "when" mid "if" donot laention file iucon'eet use of "when" in conditionalsubclauses.Moreover, sometimes descriptive information tw_.ds tobe included, e.g.
a list o\[ alternative constructious illconnuon English not to be used by the writers.Onfortmtately, to guide the writiug of descriptivedocuments the rules set forth by the ahove~utentionedgralmums Imve to be violated regularly.
To write a newCE gramnmr a clear distinction between the tales h)reditiug, on the one hand, basic instructive technicaldocuments, aud, ou the other hand, "higher-level"descriptive docnments (EE l.evel 1 and 2) will betequhed.Consequently, "... it is not salficient o construct a newgrmnmar hy just melting together the three graummrs,as was mentioned earlier.
The new grammar should alsobe linguistically welLfounded, unambiguous, and,where necessary, descriptively adeqmlte" 0,ennnens 1989: I1).4.
Organization of the COGRAM projectSince the develolnuent ill the Controlled Englishgrammar (C(KIRAM) o as it will be pre~nted in thispallet' - iiiaiuly consisls of two colnlJonelilS, a word listand a grauuuar, a two-dimensional strategy has to betakeu into iu:connt.Ou tile one haud, a lindtod lexical database is beingdevelut~xl.
A basic wold list containing 2000 terms hasbeen constituted to Ire nsed in computer-aided languagelearning exercises.
Receudy, this list has been extendedto a vocabulary package of approximately 50110 words.Moreover, auother 1000 teehuical Ix:ruls were added tomake the eontrulted vocabulary mole complete.
Oa theother hand, rile fiehl of Controlled English has beenstudied to geacmle a selectitm of ad~uate granutlar rulestlmt pertain to multiple aspects of technical writing:lexical structures, syntactic patterns, arid stylisticl('.atnics.Both the lexical dalalmse aud tile grammar need to beintegrated into a powerhd tool tiJr writers.
To ensurethat an in|roduetiou of the grammar at a company willACRES DECOLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 hofzr 1992 5 9 7 t'ltoc, ol: (;OI,ING 92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992take place without many users psychologicallyobjecting to Controlled English, we have thought ofillustrating the grammar rules by means of straight-to-the-point examples, all taken f?om the users' field ofintelest.5.
The Control led Gramnrar  (COGRAM)The development of COGRAM bas been partly directexlby a three-fold ivision into a lexical, syntactic, andstylistic component.
Most of the COGRAM rules canbe characterized bythe following three models : "Do notuse X", "Use only X", and "Avoid X".
At times "Donot use X"-rules are complemented with alternativesuggestions.
Secondly, the difference between "Do notuse"orules and "Avoid"~rules is fundamental iuCOGRAM.
"Do not use"-rules mean "You must notuse", whereas the "Avoid"orules denote "Try not to use".Some cnlcial remarks to be made here are : How is eachtylm of rule related to the others?
To what extent dothey J~ed to complement oue another and how?Unlbrtunately, a dilemma makes an adequate solutioneven more complicated.
On the one hand, from apedagogic point of view it is not useful to add all nou-controlled lbmrs to complement a "Use only"-rule.
Allgrammar rules should be kept as simple as possible.Moreover, file addition of non-controlled torms maycause coufosion on the side of the users; they might heeuticed to use non-controlled forms.
On the otherhand, in view of NLP applications, it is necessary toconsider all correct (+) and incon'ect (-) usages todevelop a powerful grammar checker.
The problems tlmtarise in regard to the modeling of rnles result from tileinability of exactly determining the users' knowledge ofnon-controlled but correct English, and ControlledEnglish : What should the level of ram-controlledEnglish be before one starc~ mastering COGRAM?In the following sections we will focus on eachcomponent in ternls of descriptive approach, linguisticfoundations, and structural organization.
Eachcompooent will lie illustrated by a few COGRAMexmuplcs.5.1 COGRAM : The Icxical componentTo guarantee that COGRAM would systematically coverall major lexical categories in English, the grammaticaldivision by Leech and Svartvik was taken as a startingpoint.
To create the initial frame of the grammar all tenlexical categories as described in tile CommunicativeGrammar of English (Leech 1987 : 307) were dividedinto four major word classes (nouns, main verbs,adjectives, adverbs) and six minor classes (auxiliaries,pronouns, determiners, conjunctions, prepositions, andinterjectious).
All the rules applying to these categorieswere methodically brought together into the lexicalcomponent.F,x.
1 : Avoid splitting infinitives, unless theemphasis i on rite adverb.BOM tries t0accurate ly  l J~  all thesubassenthlies.+ BOM tries ~ a l l  the subassembliesaccurately.Ex.
2 : Use short infinitives of regular action verbs.Make a ohotocoov of the CAD graph.+ 2~?d..OA the CAD graph.Ex.
3 : Use "a" before a noun beginning with aconsonant sound for non-specific reference.Store all numerical information in databaseprogram.+ Store all munerical inlormation in a databaseprogram.5.2 COGRAM : The syntactic componentBeside the lexical component, a syntactic module, whichcontrols coordination, subordination, tense, and aspectdescribes Controlled English sentence patterns.
It shouldbe mentioned that during the development of thecontrolled syntax, two computer-assisted writingprograms, Grammatik  4 (Reference SoftwareInternational 1989) and Right Writer (Right Soft Inc.1987), were analyzed to weigh pros and cons withrespect to controlled syntactic patterns.Ex.
4 : Write all instructions in a chronological order.Press the button on your fight, after you haveset the switch to the middle.+ Set the switch to the middle.
Press the buttonon yoar righLEx.
5 : Do not use a participle to introduce anadverbial clause.MIC manufacturing, electroplate thehousings.+ ~,~,..MIC manufacturing to electroplate thehousings.Ex.
6 : Use only because, never since in a subclauseof reason.a DBCS manages the System 12 database,physical storage is transparent to the users.+ ~ a DBCS manages the System 12 database,physical storage is transparent to the users.5.3 COGRAM : The stylistic componentThe third subsection in the grammar comprisescontrolled punctuation and layout rules to organizetextual material efficiently.
Extensive study ofKirkman's manual on punctuation added to the insightinto the facilities of style control as well (Kirkman1983).Ex.
7 : Use a question mark only at the end of a directquestion.+ Is the component single-sourced or multi-source~?Ac:l~s ~l~ COI.ING-92, NA~rES.
23-28 At)(;r 1992 5 9 8 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992Ex.
8 : Do not divide words.Ex.
9 : Expound major tOlfiCS, restrict minra topics.6.
Testint, and evaluat ing the prototypeThe prototype version of COGRAM comprisedapproximately 100 rules.
To test file efficieucy of theprototype, we analyzed a technical text sample of 450lines (Schreurs 1989).
Because of its linguisticresemblance with other teChltical text files this ~,gmentmight be a suitable representation (if the crucialgrammatical problems to be discnssed.In the Appendix, we show a short eXCelpt front theuncontrolled base text next to its controlk'xl couaterpa~t~A preliminary remark involves the seniautics of theterminology.
During the revision of the smnple fileseveral incomprehensible terms aud phrases had to Ix:decoded.
Since most linguist~ are not technical experts,an irreproachable semantic revision couhl not beguaranteed.
This is a semanlic problcm~ aud thusbeyond the scope of this lexico-syntactic analysis.Nonetheless, the English of the sample text had beenrevised ~ thoroughly as possible to test our prototypicyet controlled English grammar.6.1 Summary  of the sample text aaalysisIn the ~mple of 187 sentences 452 iuaccuracies wetctraced.
This means more thau two errors per ~ntellce onaverage.
Sixty-three percent are Controlled Englishmistakes, 37 % are common English errors.
As to non-controlled English the lexical component reveal:; nnoteworthy lack of precision : 17 % of all mistakes art',lexical, another 13 % covers pelling co'ors and incotrcctabbreviations.Concerning Controlled English 17 % nlall inaccuracies pertained to punctuation: overuse ofbrackets and slashes, lack of clear tahular layouts andimprecise organisation of titles.
In additiou, thedispensable use of passive sentences that can easily ix ~,active and the huge amount of wordiness ace other majorproblems,6.2 l ) iscuss ioaAfter examining rite analysis of the sample text thronghthe COGRAM prototype, we conclmled that thegrammar was still incomplete and uot powelful enoughto transform technical prose into fully controlleddocuments.
Ttle results, us shown above, do not reflectthe linguistic contents of the docmneut in a realisticway.
Obviously, because tile roles of the proUitype werenot explicit enough, a lot of conslxnctions that wereacceptable in Controlled English were flaggednegatively.
The rule "Put a period at the cud of eachsyntactic unit", for instance, was not accnrate uongh.
11led to flagging of all titles, heading, mid subheadings,which obvionsly do not end with a period.Consequently, the number of punctuation mistakesshould be considered with can(ion.In general, this test exercise led to better controlleddefinitions of technical tcrms (the lexical compouent),and to more efficient, clearer and well-illustrated rules(the syntacitc comlxmen0.7.
Au Idgol'ithutic (:ore(trolled grammarAfter a number of ul~ated versions, the invention andclassilication of 150 grammatical rules (COGRAM 1.0It) could function as a solid inlrastiucture from which auew stngc in the development toward a grammar andstyle chc~ker can emerge: the organization of analgorithmic on(foiled grammar (ALCOGRAM).
Thequestion to be answered ia regard to the logicalorganization of the ut'~w grammar is two-fold.
First,cau we keep Ihe thretM'old ivision (lexical, syn "tactic,stylistic) unchanged when storing 150 rules of controlinto role algorithm?
Secondly, how nmch will analgorithmic sh'netnre affect the adequate interactionaurong the componenls?
'lk) find a suitable solulion tothe above-mentioaed questions, the followingtmragt'aphs will deal with tim internal structure of theAI~fY_RqRAM modules.7ol ALCO( ;RAM : A lgor i th ln ie Control ledGrammar  o?
F',laglishWith an eye to NLI' applicalions of COGRAM (beingjust a line~m lisi of carefully designed rules), a differentorganization of the rules had to be developed.AI~COGRAM i~ not a mere blcud of conveationalcoutrolled /4xammar rules; it is an algorithmieallyorganized grammm lhat consists of four m(xlule~s eachcC, vcrillg particular asl~CkS o\[ tile process of controlledw~iting.
'l'hroa~h its division AI~COGRAM does notonly operate at the word or sentence l vel, but also takesinto co)(side)alien the textu'.,fl orgauizafion of technicaldocuments; guided thai,storming ~ules should beregarded as an initial textmd infrastructure graduallyevolving ttlward couitolled text 10rmat standards.The fimr-block swucturc nf AI,CtKiRAM constitutes theel)re of coai~'ollexl writing.
)Tulging from "conciseness"ovcl "exha-.textnality" 11)"lay(m( and puoctnation", lit()Liter words, each level ill the grammar covers ~vctalideas typical ot conhollcd writing, which - in their hunarc )cpresentcd by n \[uunbt:r of lexieal, extm4extnal, ndstyle mles.'
/ .
L t  t?vepavattn'y Textual Control  Algorithm(PTCA)Carehd Ic.d couhol implies spt~cilicadoo f the initialstage, from witch the limitexl aml exactly defined stepshuve to be taken.
This starting point is to Ix'.
situatedwithin a ptetanatoiy phase, i.e~ before the actual text iswritteu.
Whelt a iechnical wliter wants to write a text,guided brainstorming would be the solution to avoidsnperliciality fioiu tht~ initial Vfiut in the process ofwriiinf;.
~nis segntc.t of the algorithm is labeledPrepatz~h, y Textual Control Al~.orithm (PTCA).
Thetel'CA may entail iuhoductoly coutrol, coitla'ol throughadequacy, w~itin~, control, paragraph control, audcxanq,ic ~muol, lit additkm, it generates a textual limnei~!
v,hk:h lh~z syntactic.
COlnpOl|e|lt C~I opt, rate adequately.E:~.
lO : Define |ethnical terats and acl'onyms illa(lvla|?c, l'mvide Rtpafate lists of diem iu llppeadic~s.7./\[.
?, FJy~ltl,letie Coidrol  A lgor i thm (SEA)ALq'ES DI!
COLING-92, NAt'cres, 23-28 AOUr 1992 5 9 9 iqt(~c, oJ: CO1,llq(3..92, NAN rv;s, AlJo.
7%28.
1992The Syntactic Control Algorithm (SCA) controls, at asecond stage, syntax in terms of sentence length,coordination and subordination, tense and aspect, Avariety of syntactic units i.e.
titles and headings,statements, direct and indirect questions are prepared forlexical control.Ex.
11 :single actions.+7.1.3 LexicalWrite one instruction per sentence forInsert he disk.
Enter your password.Control Algorithm (LCA)At the third stage, the Lexical Control Algorithm (LCA)operates on all major and minor classes: noun control,verb control, adjective control, adverb control, auxiliarycontrol, pronoun control, conjunction control,proposition control, and interjection control.
The outputof the LCA is a controlled lexico-syntactic unit.Ex.
12 : Avoid gender-specific language.
Use amore neutral term.For information, contact our localsalesman or saleswoman.+ For information, contact our localsalesmanaeer,7.1.4 Micro Control Algorithm (MCA)Stage four aims at controlling particular microfeatures ofthe lexico-syntactic unit, The Micro ControlAlgorithm (MCA) includes a.o.
numeric control,reference control, series control, omission control,crucial term control, expression control.Ex.
13 : Use words for a number when it is thefirst word in the sentence.+ v$_g~galggdl engineers developed a newhigh-quality expert system.7.2 ALCOGRAM : General algorithmicstructureIn comparison to the paper grammar and its derivatives,the three-block structure could not be kept unchanged :the stylistic component is not a separate unit in thealgorithmic grammar; control of punctuation and stylehas been accurately merged into the textual, syntactic,lexical, and micro control subdivisions.
Moreover, theanswer to our second question can thus be formulated :the link between the PTCA, SCA, LCA, and MCA isdefinitely more compact, even more structured, and, as tothe integration of the stylistic component into thealgorithmic frame, more functional.7.3.
Flow-chart example of ALCOGRAMThe following algorithmic sample has been taken fromthe SCA.
This part of ALCOGRAM controls adverbialsubclauses.
If the users answer the questions generatedby the algorithm correctly, they will be givensuggestions on how to control their adverbial subclaase.What ~ of subordinate clause ?1.
adverbial z, relative J. nominalIWhat type of adverbial subclause ?I1.
time 2. purpose 3. condition 4. reason5.
concession 6. result I 7. place!What kind of condition ?.
/ -  x ,1. positive 2. negativeIUse unlessFig, 4 Algorithmic grammar flow-chart7.4 ALCOGRAM & NLP applications:present and future7.4.1.
Computer-aided Language Learning(CALL)When the controlled grammar (COGRAM) has beenstructured according to strict algorithmic principles(ALCOGRAM), the notion of applying a computer inthe process of technical writing (CAI) is obviouslyclose.
Consequently, a three-level (beginner -intermediate - exper0 computer program has beendeveloped that guides the writer through the algorithmby asking questions and giving suggestions on how tocontrol a specific item.
The user can also retrieveinformation about linguistic terminology from thedatabase by means of a popup-window.
The entirealgorithm - 25 files (2,5 Mb) which may run from MS-WINDOWS's Enhanced Mode - has been programmedand compiled in CLIPPER, and linked by PLINK86 forIBM compatible 386 SX Personal Computers.
It iscurrently being tested at the Alcatel-Bell company inBelgium, to assess both its completeness and usefulnessas well as its degree of acceptance by technical writers.7.4.2 Grammar/sty le checkingAfter the assessment period of the Controlled Grammarvia the CALL application, the next more ambitious tepwill be the development of an intelligent grammar andstyle checking program for Controlled Language.
Weare currently designing the ALCOGRAM checker insuch a way that it can be fully integrated with theInterleaf DTP environment (which already contains aLisp-based rudimentary lexical control componen0.
Itshould be able to transform non-controlled lexico-syntactic units into controlled ones withoutsubstantially affecting the semantic ontent of the units(cp.
Wojcik et al 1990).
Since the development ofparsers and grammars for NLP applications i a costlyenterprise, we will be looking at the potentialintegration of the METAL MT grammar for Englishinto our checker.
Experiments in style checking ofGerman and Spanish using the METAL analysisgrammars and the FrameMaker DTP environment in thecontext of the Translator's Workbench ESPRIT project(Thurmair 1990a/b) have yielded promising resultswhich we might use as a starting point.AcrEs De COLING-92, NAWrEs, 23-28 no(rr 1992 6 0 0 PROC.
oi: COLING-92.
Nnwres, AUG. 23-28, 1992AppendixNon-controlled input sampleAutomatic test circuitsSpecial test tone circuits are often foreseen.
When thetest circuit is called, a test tone with the proper transmitlevel is returned.
When many circuits have to be testedthe use of automatic test circuits is recommended.
Theycan dial the preset number to connect o the special testtone circuit in the distant exchange, and test each circuitfor noise, transmission level, signalling, and answersupervision.
The faulty circuits can be printed out, oralarm can be given to the technician.
The test can bemade not only from exchange to exchange, but alsothrough tandem exchanges to the terminating exchange.The automatic test circuit can also be used to test the LDequipmenLControlled OUtlmt sampleAutomatic test circuitsSpecial test tone circuits are often foreseen.
When thetest circuit is called, a test tone with the propertransmit level is returned.
When many circuits need atest, we recommend automatic test circuits.These circuits can :dial the preset number to reach the special test tonecircuit in the distant exchange;test each circuit for noise, transmission level,signalling, and answer supervision.One can print the faulty circuits, or alarm the technician.One can do the test not only from exchange to exchange,but also through tandem exchanges to the terminatingexchange.
One can also use the automatic test circuit totest the LD equipment.B ib l iographyAdriaens G. & Schreurs D. (1990) - Controlled English(CE) : from COGRAM to ALCOGRAM (presented at"Computers and Writing lIl", Edinburgh 1990).
Leuven,Center for Computational Linguistics.AECMA (1988) - A Guide for the Preparation of AircraftMaintenance Documentation in the AerospaceMaintenance Language.
AECMA Simplified English,Paris.Beeken J.
(1990) - CONST : Computer InstructedWriting Techniques (presented at "Computers andWriting III", Edinburgh 1990).
Leuven, Department ofLiuguistics.Deprez F. (1991) - TARZAN: pre- and post-editing toolsfor rite METAL system in the administrative domain.METAL documentation.Ericsson (1983) - English Writer's Guide.
Stockholm,Ericsson Group.IBM (1989) - Information Development Guidelines,"Content", "On-line Information", Vocabularies forCustomers and Service Information", "Style".Jackson T. (1990) - Less is more, article in "ElectricWord" #19.Kingscott G. (1991) - Applications of MachineTranslation : Study for the Commission of EuropeanCommunities, Praetorius Limited.Kirkman J.
(1983) - Point on Punctuation for Scientificand Technical Writing.
South Glamorgan : JohnKirkman Communication Consultancy.Lemmens M. (1989) - Controlled English Project -Preliminary Research.
Leuven, Department ofLinguistics.Pym P.J.
(1988) - Prc-editing and the use of simplifiedwriting for MT: an engineer's experience of operatingan MT system, ASLIB.Pym P.J.
(1990) - Simplified English and MachineTranslation, Perkins Engines UK.Schreurs D. (1989a) - COGRAM, Controlled Grammar1.0.
Leuven, Department of Linguistics.Sehreurs D. (1989b) - Grammatical Analysis of aDATACOM 2 sample through the Controlled EnglishGrammar COGRAM.
Leuven, Department ofLinguistics.Schreurs D. (1990a) - ALCOGRAM, AlgorithmicControl led Grammar 1.0.
Leuven, Center forComputational Linguistics.Schreurs D. (1990b) - Testing of teu Alcatel-BellAbstracts through the Computer-controlled InteractiveAlgorithmic Grammar ALCOGRAM.
Leuven, Centerfor Computational Linguistics.Thurmalr G. (1990a) - Parsing for Grammar and StyleChecking.
In Proceedings of the 13th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics (Helsinki1990), Volume II, 356-370.Thurmair G. (1990b) - Style Checking in TWB(Translator's Workbench).
Munich : Siemens-Nixdorf.Van der Korst B.
(1986) - A Dependency Syntax forEnglish.
Utrecht, BSO Research.Wojcik R., Hoard J.
& Holzhauser K. (1990a) - OnCreating a Practical Simplified English Checker.Washington : Boeing Computer Services.Wojcik R., Hoard J.
& Holzhauser K. (1990b) - Anautomated grammar and style checker for writers of SE.Washington : Boeing Computer Services.AcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt\]T 1992 6 0 1 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, Aua.
2.3-28, 1992
