AUTOMATIC DICTIONARY ORGANIZATION IN NLP SYSTEMS FORORIENTAL LANGUAGESV.Andrezen, L.Kogan, W.Kwitakowski ,  R.Minvaleev,  R.Piotrowski ,V.Shumovsky, E.Tioun, Yu.
Tovmaeh\[lept.
of Appl ied L inguistcsHertzen Pedagogical  Univers i ty48, Moika, 191186St.
-Petersburg,  USSRAbstractThis paper presents adescr ipt ion of automaticd ict ionar ies (ADs) and dict ionaryentry (DE) schemes for NLPsystems deal ing with Or ientallanguages.
The uni formity of theAD organizat ion and of the DEpattern does not prevent thesystem from taking into accountthe structural  d i f ferences ofisolat ing (analytical),  aggluti -nat ing and internal - f lect ionlanguages.The "Speech Stat ist ics" (SpSt)pro ject  team has been des igning al inguist ic  automaton aimed at NLprocess ing in a var iety of forms.In addit ion to Germanic andRomance languages the systemunder development is to handletext process ing of a number ofOr iental  languages.
The strategyadopted by th~ SpSt ~roup ischaracter ized by a lex ical izedapproach: the NLP algorit}nns forany language are ent i re ly ADdependent, i.e., a large lexicondatabase has been provided, itsentr ies being loaded withinformat ion inc luding not onlylexical, but also morphological ,syntact ic  and semantic data.
Thisinformation concentrated ind ict ionary entr ies (DEs) isessential  for both source textanalysis and target (Russian)text generation.The DE structure is largelydetermined by the typologicalfeatures of the source language.The SpSt group has hi therto hadto deal w.ith European languagesand it was for these languages( inf lect ive and inf lect ive -analytical)  that the prototypeentry schemes were e laborated andadopted.
No doubt, thetypological  character is t ics  ofOr iental  languages requiredcertain modi f icat ions to be made%o the basic scheme.
Hence in thepresent paper each of thelanguage types is givenconsiderat ion.
Agg lut inat inglanguages proved to be the mostsuitable to process according tothe SpSt strategy.
But an isolat-ing language will be the f irstto be proposed for discussion.I.
The AD organizat ion for a~isolat ing language: ChineseFor the purposes of NLP it isp laus ib le  to assume writtenChinese as exc lus ive ly  isolat inglanguage where af f ixat ion isv i r tual ly  non-existent.
The fewinf lect ive word-forms are enteredinto the lexicon as unana l i zab lelexical items, whereas mult ip legrammar formants are t reated asfree structural elements.
Highdegree of lexical ambiguitymaking syntact ic  d isambiguat ion  amust, and the fact that wordboundar ies are not expl ic i t lyAcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AO13T 1992 5 0 5 Paoc.
OF COLING.92, NANTES, AUC.
23-28, 1992marked in the text are wel l -knownproblems with Chinese textanalysis.
(Actually, in theMULTIS project e laborated by theSpSt group Chinese characters aret ransformed into 4-digit  str ingsin conformity with ChineseStandard Telegraph Code).Thus grammatical  and logico -semantic relat ions in the textare expressed by  word order,structural words and semanticvalencies.
In addit ion to theirrole of the labels for syntacticunits (predicate, direct andindirect objects, etc.)
thestructural  words funct ion asdel imitators  s ingl ing outword-forms and phrases.
Aseparate sub- lexicon forstructural  words is accordinglyprovided within the whole lexicondatabase of Chinese as sourcelanguage.
The fi le of not ionalwords comprises lexical items ofvar ious lengths ranging fromone-character  items toeight-character ones, nod i f ferent iat ion being made amongone-stem words, composite wordsand phrases.
A dist inct vers ionof the DE scheme is assigned toeach of the two classes oflexical items: notional words (N/W) and structural  words (S/W).The DE scheme for N/Wincludes, along with syntact icand semantic, the fo l lowing data:i) Part - of - ~pcech assignment;2) Information on the lexicalambiguity.
Thus, by way ofexample, the one-stem word sudan'sultan' and composite beida'Bei j ing University' are codedN00, where N denotes noun, whi leq ianding 'to sign a treaty' iscoded 0S0 where S denotesverb/noun lexicui ambiguity (tobe eventual ly  d isambiguated bysyntactic means).As to the DE schemes forS/Ws, each of these shouldinclude posit ionalcharacter ist ics  of the lexiealitem and provide information onthe way the given part ic leaffects formation of the Russianequivalent.
E.g., in thegrammatical  coding of the verbalaspect S/W le and nominal  S/Ws deand ba the fo l lowing points aremarked: i) part - of - speechdependence; 2) posit ion (pro- orpost -pos i t ion  with respect to theN/W); 3) Russian matching;.4) syntact ic function.The information placed in a DEmay be used in t ranslat ingsentences as i l lustrated below:Sudan ba heyue qi-~sdingThe sultan the peace treaty signedIn carry ing out the lexico -syntact ical  analysis of thissentence two word groups aredel imitated : nominal  group baheyue and verbal  groupquanding le.
In the ba-DE thereare data to define ba as a S/W inpreposi t ion to a direct objectwhich is equivalent  to a Russiannoun in the Accusat ive Case.
Inthe le-OE there are data todef ine le as a verbal index in apost -pos i t ion  to a verbalpredicate and indicat ing thecomplet ion of an action,equivalent  to a Russian verb inthe Past Tense, Perfective.
(Forthe sake of s impl ic i ty thepolyvalent  and polysemant icnature of these part ic les isignored in this example).2.
The AD organizat ion for anagglut inat ing language: TurkishThe agglut inat iveword- format ion technique ischaracter ized by ordered addit iunof aff ixes to the stem to preOuceformant str ings of variouslengths.
An outstanding featureof agglut inat ing languages isthat these word- forms are notreproduced ready-made in speechbut are constructed by thespeaker actual ly 'ad hoc'according to def in i te rules.
Eachof the l imited set of aff ixesimparts 'a semantic quant' orACRES DE COLING-92,  NANTES, 23-28 Aou'r 1992 $ 0 6 PROC.
OF COLING-92,  NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992represents  a grammat ica lcategory,  i<.g.
, see the fo l low ingpat terns  where  t ,he  stem ' SU\].
tan 'and some of it.~ der ivat ives  u, rep r i son  Led  :su l tan  su l tan 'su l tan la r  ' su l tans  'su l tan la r in i z' OUr  su\].tans 'su l tan la r in i zdan' f rom our su l tans  'Word- fo rmat ion  in Turk i sh  iscar r ied  out in accordance  wi the i ther  of the two proto types  :nomina l  or verbal .
Of one nomina ls tem it is theoret i ca l l y  poss ib lebo der ive  an in f in i te  number  ofword - fo rms (actual ly ,  though,  onlysome 200 as reg is tered  in thecorpora)  .
As to the verba lparad igms,  of each s tem it ispotent ia l l y  poss ib le  to form morethan Ii thousand word-:forms.C lear ly ,  Turk i sh  lex icondatabase, wou Jd  inc lude,  bes idesstems, sub- lex icons  ofpos tpos i t i ve  af f ixes.
A long  w i ththe stems of wh ich  both  nouns andverbs  may be der ived  there arethose  a.~; s is'ned to only  onedefinitt~ par t  of speech  c lass  (e.g.
gel ' c~me ' ) , a lsounproduct ive  lexemes such as ve'and' zaten ' genera l ly '  .Each  DE conta ins  codedJ n fo rmat ion  ind icat ing :  i ) thelexeme's  par t  of speech  c lass  andtype of lex ica l  ambigu i ty  ( e.g.,for the stem insan 'man' it isnoun/ad jec t ive  ambig'uity, thatis, NA ); 2) the lexeme'ssemant ic  c lass  ( e.g.
, for thestem insan 'man '  there  is anind icat ion  that  it be longs  toSub jec t  (S) semant ic  class, and,c.onsequenbly, may funct ion  as thesub ject  of a sentence;  3) Russ ianequ iva lent  ( the address  of the"machine"  s tem wi th  necessarylex ico -grammat ica l  in fo rmat ion)  .Turk i sh  a f f i xes  are s t ruc turedso as to form four  connec  t.edgraphs  const ructed  to the ru lesof the grammar  of orders.
Graph  1presents  s imple  noun morpho logy ;Graph 2 ,  f in i te  verb  fo rmmorpho logy ;  Graph  3,  non- f  in i teverb  forms ; Graph  4 , f l omina \ ]prud icabc ;  .
The  word  s~em isass igned  go the  graph root  wh i lea f f i xes  ( their  al\].omorphvar iants )  are ass igned  to graphnodes, each node cor respond ing  tode f in i t~  grammar  rank .Recogn i  Lion andlex ico -morpho log ica i  ana lys i s  oft i le  Turk i sh  text  word isaccompl i shed  as ?ol\].ows: i. Stemrecogn i t ion  and a f f i xesde l imi ta t ion  by meal~s o:k' the AI)search~ if th is  resu l t s  : in therecogn i t ion  o f  the  input  textword, the task  Js fu l f i l l ed ,  andthe  ta rget  word equivalent, ispassed  I;o the output  unit  (e.g.,the text  word 'AnRara' ).
2.
If norecogn i t ion  is acknowledged,  tilesys tem goes on wi thiex ico -morpho log ica l  analys is ,  itis per fo rmed by consecut:i vesuperpos i t ion  of a f f i xes  on theend segments  of the str ing,  1,bea f f i xes  be ing  fed by access  to anappropr ia te  graph.
The opt:rationis accompl i shed  by mask  match ingmethod proceed ing  : I rom r ight  toleft, f rom jun ior  order  to sen io rorder  affixe~i.
Al l  poss ib lea f f i xes  hav ing  been ident i f ied ,J.he in i t ia l  par t  of the text, wordthat  remains  i s  t reated  as thehypothet Jo  s tem and is eventua l lysearched  in the AD.The  search  mayresu l t  in differenl; s i tuat ions .3 .If the  hypothet ie  stem isident i f ied  as one of A\]) stems andits par t  of speech  ass ignmentco inc ides  w i th  that  of af f ixes,then the task  is cons idered  to befu l f i l led .
E.g.,  in ana lys ing  thetext  word tu tanak la r in in  the nounstem tut.anak ' protoco l '  isrevea led : i t  is a jo ined by nominala f f i xus  lar in in.The ta rget  equ iva lent  w i th  itsg'rammatical character i s t i cs  ispassed  to the syntact i c  module.4.
in case of fa i lu re  ( thatis, when the s tem is not found)the s t r ing  is recovered  in itso r ig ina l  form ( ident i f ied  a f f i xesare ' glued ' back) , and theAcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AO?n" 1992 5 0 7 PROC.
Of; COLING-92, NAN'rI~S, Auo.
23-28, 1992analysis  restarts with access toGraph 2 on the assumption thatthe input text word is a f initeverb form, etc.
This sequentialaccess to graphs does not takeplace at random but has beenprogrammed according to thef requency data received by aprel iminary quant i tat ive analysisof some text corpora.3.
The AD organizat ion forinternal - f lect ion languages:Arabic and Hebrew.The word morphology of Arabicand Hebrew is not onlycharacter ized by internalf lect ion but also by a ratherwide use of agglut inat ive formantsand external flection.
Takinginto account these features ofthe Semit ic word-form structurethree di f ferent approaches to ADdesign seem plausible.i.
Representat ion of lexiconitems by word-forms l isted ina lphabet ical  order; in this casethe fo l lowing Hebrew words wouldhave three independent DEs:1 ~f~ SiLTWoN suit.an 6~@ SiLTWoNJ iM sultans S~LT~Ne;.
sultans~ (status constructus)2.
An alphabetical  arrangementof machine stems as has been madefor European languages; in thiscase the above Hebrew wordformsmay be reduced to only one item.3.
Designing the sourcelexicon as a lexicon of roots;all above-ment ioned Hebrewword-forms would then berepresentated by the root ~ .~.~SLTN supplementedwith l ists of internal andexternal  affixes.Since word- format ion and word-bu i ld ing  in Semitic languages arepract ica l ly  l imit less the optionof the f irst or second approacheswould cause a dimension crisiswith respect to the lexicon size:the AD would surpass the cr it icalstorage capacity whi le thedict ionary search would bestrongly impeded.With root-based ADorganizat ion the root-or ig inatedword- form development processfol lows the order:"root-der ivat ion - internalf lect ion types rules ofcombinat ion with def initeexternal  affixes".
Unfortunately,this kind of AD organizat ionrequires, for the purposes of thetext-word lex ico-grammaticalanalysis, a mult ip le access tothe hard disk, and this wouldagain cause a d imension crisis,now with respect to the systemoperat ing speed.To rel ieve the dimensioncrisis a trade-off  may besuggested: combined root-basedand alphabet ic  approach toconstruct ion, operat ion andmaintenance of the AD.
With thisapproach five lists (sub-lexicons) of l inguist ic  units aredist inguished.i.
List of roots actual ly in use(some 500 for Hebrew, 200 forArabic).2.
List of internal f lect ions(some 800 for Hebrew, 900 forArabic).3.
A lphabet ic  list of words withregular word- format ion (nouns,adjectives, also basic forms ofverbs);4.
List of words of Semit icor igin with irrigularword- format ion and borrowed words(i.e., those where tr i l i teralscheme is not observed).
E.g.,,/)t' 'day', , _O '~ days (thisis one of the" few Hebrew nounswhere the internal f lect ion ischanged with word-formation) .~ f ~  'to telegraph'(a borrowed word, not subject toconjugat ion rules).~ 'to take' rootI~4,), two root letters are omittedl -- Arabic: 'father',..~C_~% -Gen i t ive ) j~Accusat iveNominat ive .
.
( an  anomaly  indec lens ion) .ACRES DE COTING-92, NAN'rE.S, 23-28 AO~r 1992 5 0 8 Pgoc.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992/.~9 'not  to be' , a verbhavlnf~ only  Per fec t  forms.5.
L i s t  of externa l  affixes.< pref ixes ,  suff\]  xes,e i rcumf ixes ) .
These are compi ledhav ing  in v iew the i r  ab i i i Ly  toform combinat ions .
L is ts  I and 2be in~ o\]\] a \] imi%ed length  ar~inc luded inzc~ the 1%AM: thi sa\] iowa for the poss ib i l i ty  %oana lyze  the text  word  w i thoutaccess ing  the hard dish.
'\]'he rest.of the l ists  arm entered  into thed isk  database.
Acees ing  to bh~.s~l ists  is to take p lace  a f te r  thepr imary  root  - a f f ix  ~dent i f i ca -t ion oT the text  word  has beendone.S tems of o ther  l i s ts  may beass igned var ious  entr ies .I r regu lar  word- fo rms arespec i f ied  as parad igms where  eachword- fo rm is supp l ied  w i th  the%arge.t language equ iva lent .kecogn i t ion  and \ ]ex ico -morpho-log ica l  ana lys i s  of the Semi t i ctext words  goes on by thefo l low ing  steps:I.
The root  is s ing led  out  andrecogn ized  accord ing  to L ist  I.The operat ion  per fo rmed is infact a combinator ia l -p robab i l i s -t i c  ana lys i s  of poss ib leconsonant  combinat ions  w i th in  theinput  text  word.
The operat ion  isbased on the actua l  consonantsbe ing  used exc lus ive ly  in root,s( so -ca l led  root  consonants \ ]  or inboth  roots  and a f f i xes( s t ruc tura l  consonants )  .2.
In terna l  f\].ection types(der ivat ions)  and the i r  vers ionsare ident i f ied  w i th  the  modelsinc luded in L ist  2.3.
The roots  recogn ized  arereduced to .lexicon forms as inL ist  3: th is  a l lows  one to getthe ta rget  language equ iva lent  ofthe item.
The f inal  synthes is  ofthe ta rget  text  word  is per fo rmedon the bas is  of the in fo rmat ionof  the in terna l  and externa lf leet ions  of the g iven  sourcetext  word.
The externa l  f lec t ionsare determined  by the types  andvers ions  of the in terna lf leet ion:  s ing l ing  out  anin terna l  f \ ]ec t ion  automat ica l lyi dent i l  ies the cor respond in~external.
Ohm wi th  one of theII~c~dt~.i.~<, in L ist  5.if the s y s t t~.m fa i ls  tor~=,".t,6nize the: g iven text  word,wh ich  may be caused by thei r regu lar  word-  format ion,  thisword  is t rans la ted  w i th  the a idof L is t  4.
Bes ides,  thei ex ico -mo rpho 1 o~<i ~.
t~l ana lys i scevta in ly  makes  use of thed ic t ionary  of phrases  though itss t ructure  is not ,  cons idered  inth is  paper.Conc lus ionAs is ev ident ,  the very  not ionof the text  word, wh ich  is soessent ia l  in des ign ing  automat icd ic t ionar ies ,  is qu i te  d i s t inc tin each  of the Or ienta l  languagesand fundamenta l ly  d i f fe rent  f romwhat  we are used -to t reat  as at <~,x-t word i n  i ndo-Europeanlanguages,  in f lec t ing  orin f lec t ing  ana lyt ica l .
If anOr ienta l  language AD is to beJ n te~rated  into a mul t imodu larNLP  sys tem ( such as MULT ISe\].aborated by tht= GpSL group\]  andthe sys tem has to re ta in  i t sbas ic  s t ructure ,  th is  p ro jec trequ i res  deve lopment  of var iousforms of sub- /ex i  con databases .As we have seen the mostcompl ica ted  s t ruc ture  of Arab icand Hebrew text  word  requ i rede laborat ion  of four  vers ions  ofDE whi le  the d i f fe rent ia t ion  ofnot iona l  and s t ructura l  words  inCh inese  requ i red  two vers ions .
Anagg lu t inat ive  word  s t ruc turemode l  such as in Turk ish,  thoughthe most  su i tab le  for  the SpZtgrammar,  requ i red  at ree -s t ruc tured  database andspecial procedures of access.ACaES DE COLING-92.
NANTES, 23-28 AO6"r 1992 5 0 9 PRO(\].
O~ COL1NG-92.
NANTes, AUO.
23-28, 1992
