ASPECT-A  PROBLEM FOR MTby BARBARA GAWRONSKADept.
of Linguistics,University of Lund, SwedenE-mail: linglund@ gemini.ldc.lu.seFAX:46-(0)46 104210IntroductionRussian and Polish, two of the five languagesinvolved in the experimental MT-system SWE-TRA (Dept.
of Linguistics, Lund University;cf.
Sigurd & Gawroriska-Werngren 1988) areknown as typical aspect languages.
The lexicalinventory of both Russian and Polish containsaspectually marked verb pairs, i.e.
each verb(except a small group of biaspectual verbs) isinherently either perfective or imperfective.
Thedistinction is usually marked by a prefix (Pol.czyta(/przeczyta(, R. ~itat'/pro?itat" 'to read'imp/perf) or a change in the stem (Pol.podpisa(/podpisywa(, R. podpisat'/podpisyvat''to sign' perf/imp, Pol.
bra(/wziqF, R. brat'/vzjat' 'to take' imp/perf).
This means that atranslator formulating a Polish/Russian equiva-lent of an English VP almost always has tochoose between two members of a certain verbpair.
Human translators who are nativespeakers of Russian or Polish normally performthis task without difficulties.
What cues are theyusing when deciding which aspectual variantfits into the given context properly?
Can theprinciples for aspect choice be formalized andused in an MT-system?The  aspect  category  as al ingu is t i c  p rob lemDo all languages express the category of aspectin some way?
What exactly is expressed by thiscategory?
Questions like these have been dis-cussed in an enormous number of works ingeneral inguistics.
Nevertheless, little agree-ment has been reached as to the status and themeaning of the aspect category.
Some of themost common controversies in the domain ofaspectology may be summarized as follows:1) Shall aspect be treated as a universal cat-egory or as a language-specific one?2) Is aspect a purely verbal category, asentence operator, or primarily a dis-course strategy?3) Is it possible to ascribe an invariantmeaning to a certain aspect value?
Ormust the meaning of an aspectuallymarked verb be derived from the se-mantic features of the verbal stem?Each of the questions above has been answeredin different ways.
Several aspectologists are fo-cusing on the discourse functions of aspect(Hopper & Thompson 1980, Wallace 1982,Paprott6 1988); others concentrate on aspectchoice in isolated sentences (e.g.
DeLancey1982).
There are arguments for an invariant dif-ference between the perfective and the imper-fective aspect (Forsyth 1970) as well as for in-vestigating verbal stems one by one in order todiscover the meaning of the aspect category(Apresjan 1980).Despite all controversies concerning thestatus and the main function of aspect, most re-searchers agree with the opinion that the perfec-tive aspect is normally chosen when referring toevents, processes or states (the general term"event-situations" will be used from now on),which are limited, complete or countable,whereas the imperfective aspect alludes to un-completed event-situations without clear tempo-ral boundaries.
This way of describing the dis-tinction between the perfective and the imper-fective aspect is to be found both in traditionaldescriptive grammars (the Soviet AcademicGrammar 1954) and in recent papers of cogni-tive grammarians (e.g.
Langacker 1982, Pa-prott6 1988).
The later authors argue especiallyfor a parallelism between mass names and im-perfective verbs and between countable nounsand perfective verbs.
The basic conceptual dis-tinction between spatially limited (countable) re-ferential objects and referents without clear spa-tial limits (denoted by mass names) is assumedto apply 'also to the temporal limits of event-ref-erents: temporally bounded events become"countable", i.e.
perfective, and get the "figure"(fore.ground) status in a discourse, while event-sltuauons which lack temporal limits ("mass"referents) are expressed by imperfective verbsand function as discourse background.The view on the aspect category (at least inPolish and Russian) presented in this paper ispartially related to the interpretation proposedAcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 ao~r 1992 6 5 2 PROC.
ON COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 2.3-28, 1992by cognitive grammarians.
A similarity betweentypical NP-referents and "event-referents" ialso assumed, but instead of treating the perfec-tive/imperfective distinction as reflecting theconceptual difference between "count" and"mass" referents, I prefer to relate the aspect va-lue to another referential feature, namely, to thenotion of uniqueness.The "uniqueness-based" approachThe PROLEK~ implementation f some rules foraspect choice in translation from Swedish orEnglish into Polish/Russian is based on the as-sumption that the choice between the peffectiveand the imperfective aspect in Russian and Pol-ish reflects the distinction between event-situa-tions which are marked as highly specific,unique, and those which are unmarked as totheir uniqueness.
By "unique" I roughly mean"not identical with another referent in the cur-rent universe of discourse from the sender'spoint of view".
In the Germanic languages, thereferents of noun phrases may be marked asunique by the definite article or other definite-ness markers,  e.g.
possess ive anddemonstrative pronouns.
The uniquenessmarking may apply both to countable and un-countable referents: the dog is sick refers to aspecific entity belonging to the species dog; thewine was good alludes to a specific appearanceof the substance in question (e.g.
the wine thathas been drunk at a specific party).
In Russianand Polish, a similar function is fulfilled by theperfective aspect-with the difference that thechoice of a perfective verb marks the referent ofthe whole predication (an event-situation) ashighly specific, unique, i.e.
not identical withother event-situations named in the discourse.The distinction between the uniqueness hy-pothesis and the mass/count interpretation ofaspect proposed by cognitive grammarians mayseem very subtle.
Nevertheless, it is of import-ance.
The mass/count analogy does not accountfor some "untypical" cases of aspect use, whichposes difficulties to adult learners of Russian orPolish, e.g.
the use of the imperfective aspect inRussian/Polish equivalents to a sentence likeHave you already had breakfast/lunch~dinner?(R.
Ty u\[e zavtrakal/ obedal/u~inal?, Pol.Jadte~ ju~ ~niadanie/obiad/kolacj~?).
The eventreferred to is undoubtedly finished and time-li-mited, i.e.
countable, yet in spite of thesefeatures, it is expressed imperfectively.
The useof the perfective variants of the verbsexemplified is more restricted: it is e.g.
possiblein situations where the sender stresses theimportance of the fact that a very specific foodportion has, so to speak, disappeared, or whena sequence of specific events is expressed, as inthe example below:R. My poobedali,we ate-lunch-perfa potom pogli v kinoand later went-perf to cinema'We had eaten lunch and then we went to thecinema'Here, the perfective aspect points out that thelunch referred to was a unique one (it was fol-lowed by the action of going to the cinema),whereas in questions like:R. Ty u~e obedal?you "already ate-dinner-impthe sender is not interested in a unique case ofeating dinner, but merely in whether the ad-dressee is hungry or not; thus, the imperfectiveaspect is a natural choice, although the eventalluded to is a countable one.F ind ing  un iqueness  cuesThe role of the notion of uniqueness can befurther illustrated by a fragment of an Englishtext translated into Russian by a human transla-tor.
To make the example clearer, I do not quotethe whole Russian text, but only specify theaspect values chosen by the translator.Sample text(the initial sentences of the preface to "AnIntroduction to Descriptive Linguistics" byH.A.
Gleason; aspect values from a translationinto Russian):1.1 Language is one of the most importantand characteristic forms of human be-haviour.
(no aspect marking - a verbless predicative)1.2 It has, accordingly, always had a placein the academic world.
(imperf)1.3 In recent years, however, its positionhas changed greatly.
(perf)The sample text shows that there is no clear cor-relation between the English tense and the Rus-sian aspect: the aspect value may vary, althoughthe tense value of the source text is constant (inboth 1.2 and 1.3 the Present Perfect is used).Thus, tense cannot be used as a primary cuewhen generating aspect.
But if we look foruniqueness indices in the source text and treatthem as aspect indices, the result will be quiteAC1T~S DE COL1NG-92, NANT~, 23-28 AO~q" 1992 6 5 3 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES.
AUG. 23-28.
1992adequate.
In sentence 1.2 (It has, accordingly,always had a place in the academic world), theadverb always indicates that the predicationdoes not refer to any unique situation-the stateexpressed by 1.2 may be true at any point intime.
Hence, the imperfective aspect is the onlypossible alternative (Polish and Russian perfec-tive verbs in the past tense normally do not co-occur with adverbs uch as always, often etc.
).The situation expressed in 1.3 (In recent years,however, its position has changed greatly) con-talns several elements that make it contrast withthe one named in 1.2.
The effect of contrast isachieved by the adverb however and by the se-mantics of the finite verb changed.
In addition,the state referred to in 1.3 is placed in a quitedefinite time period (in recent years).
All thesefactors taken together provide a sufficient moti-vation for marking the referent of 1.3, in thegiven context, as an event-situation which isunique in relation to the generally true statementioned in 1.2.
Accordingly, the perfectiveaspect is used.The sample text shows that there are certainadverbials which, on their own, may be suffi-cient as aspect indices (as always) and that theappropriate aspect value may be indicated by aninterplay between adverbial phrases, semanticfeatures of the main verb, and the context of thecurrent predication (1.3).An attempt to formalize someprinciples for aspect choiceA computer program for aspect choice in trans-lation should take into account at least thosetypes of aspect indices that have been observedin the sample text discussed above.
The resultwill obviously not be a full set of aspect gene-rating rules.
Nevertheless, an attempt to designan automatic procedure generating aspect is ofpractical and theoretical interest: he translationquality may be improved, and an analysis of theadvantages and the shortcomings of the proce-dure may provide a deeper insight into the na-ture of the aspect phenomenon.The program presented here is implementedin LPA MacProlog and functions as an inter-mediate (transfer) stage in the translation pro-cess-it intervenes between the parsing of theSwedish or English text and the generation ofits Russian or Polish equivalents ( imilar to theprocedure for definiteness choice, outlined inGawro6ska 1990).
For different languagepairs, slightly different variants of the transferprogram are used, but all modules are based onthe same main principle.The programs used for parsing and genera-tion are written in a modified version of Refer-ent Grammar (Sigurd 1987), called PredicateDriven Referent Grammar (PDRG).
The forma-lism, implemented in DCG, is an eclectic one: itis reminiscent of GPSG (no transformations,use of LP-rules in parsing certain constituents,a GPSG-inspired treatment of relative clauses),LFG (the use of c-representations and f-repre-sentations) and HPSG (the head of the phrase,especially the finite verb, plays the central rolein the selection of the other phrasal elements).
Itis just the treatment of the finite verb (or a verb-less predicative) as the central element of a sen-tence that the name of the formalism alludes to.A PDGRG rule may be written as follows:rsent(d,c_rep(\[advp(A),Cat 1 (RI ,Markl),vfin(Verb,Aspec0,Cat2(R2,Mark2)\]),f_rep(\[Frolel(F_Reprl),pred(Verb),F role2(F_Repr2),advl(Af)\]),sem_rep( \[event nucl(Event),S_role 1 (S Repr  1),S_role2(S Repr2),circumstances(Feat(As))\]))ropadvp(A,Af, As,Feat),rconst(Cat 1 (R 1 ,F Repr 1, S_Repr 1 ,Mark 1 )),vfin(Form,Aspect),{rlex(Form,Verb,v,fin,Aspect .
.
.
.
.
.
.f_roles(\[F_role 1 (Cat 1,Markl),pred(Verb), F role2(Cat2,Mark2)\]),s roles(\[S role 1 (F_role 1 ),S_role2(F_role2),event nucl(Event)\]) },rconst(Cat2(Repr2,F_Repr2,S Repr2,Mark2)).d = declarativersent = Russian sentenceropadvp = Russian optional adverbial phraservfin = Russian finite verbrconst = an obligatory syntactic onstituentrlex = Russian lexical entryropadvp = Russian optional adverbial phrasef_roles = functional roless_roles = semantic rolesevent nucl = the semantic kernel of thep~licationThe rule above is slightly simplified-it containsno agreement conditions and only one optionaladverbial phrase.
In the actual program, theACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt~T 1992 6 5 4 PROC.
Or COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992number of adverbials may vary, and thesubject-verb agreement is controlled.As the result of parsing, three kinds of rep-resentations are delivered:1) a categorial representation (c rep),which is the most language-specificone.
It contains the information aboutthe following facts:a. the surface word orderb.
the syntactic ategory of the com-plements of the verbc.
the case value of the NPs, if presentd.
the form and the case demand ofvalency-bound prepositions, if any(this kind of information is repre-sented by the variables Markl andMark2)2) a functional representation (f rep), in-cluding such traditional functionalroles as subject, object, predicate andadverbial3) a semantic representation (s_rep), con-taining semantic roles like actor, pa-tient, experiencer, stimulus, etc.The rule above is a very general one: both thefunctional and the semantic roles (F rolel/2,S_rolel/2) and the information about heir sur-face realizations (Cat(egory)l/2) are unspeci-fied; in the parsing/generation process they areinstantiated by utilizing the information storedin the lexical entry for the verb (the entity withthe functor "rlex"), which may have thefollowing shape:rlex(udaril,m(hit,past),v,fin,perf,_,agr(Isg,ma\]),_,f_roles(\[subj(np,nom),pred(m(hit,past)),obj(np,acc)\]),s roles(\[actor(subj),patient(obj),event nucl(m(hit,past))\])).The aspect category is represented both in thelexical entry and in the verbal slot of the catego-rial representation.
The Russian/Polish aspect isthus treated as a language-specific categorymarked on the verb, as distinguished from themore abstract category of uniqueness, which,according to our approach, is a universal con-ceptual notion, expressed in different ways bydifferent language systems.In the translation process, the f-representa-tion and the s-representation are utilized.
Afterparsing an English/Swedish sentence, the pro-gram tries to find out the "uniqueness value" ofthe event expressed by the current predicationusing three main kinds of rules:1) rules checking uniqueness indices insidethe functional and the semantic repre-sentation without looking at the con-text or using knowledge representationstored in the data base2) rules comparing the current predicationwith the infommtion about the mosttypical predication containing the cur-rent verb (i.e.
rules using a knowledgerepresentation).
The most typical pre-dication is to be understood as a de-~ription of the most typical event-sit-uation, which may be expressed bymeans of the current verb and its com-plements.
In the data base, such de-scriptions are stored as entities withthe functor proto_event.3) rules comparing the cmTent predicationwith its context and inferring the prob-ability of aspect change.The three kinds of rules apply in the order sug-gested above.
If a rule of type 1) results in in-stantiating the uniqueness value of the event-referent as "uni(que)" or "not uni(que)", theother rule types do not apply.
It means thatrules of type 1) have to discover the strongest"not-uniqueness" indices, like indefinite fre-quency or durativity adverbials, or other "not-uniqueness" indicating markers, like theEnglish progressive tenses, "aspectual" verbslike beg in ,  s top  etc., or, in Swedish,constructions with coordinated verbs (as sattoch liiste, lit.
sat and read - 'was reading')which are semantically similar to the Englishprogressive t nses.This kind of rule may be exemplified by thefollowing one, which may be used for findinghabituality markers like indefinite frequency ad-verbials, adverbials expressing durativity or theverb brukade ('used to') in the Swedish input:uniqueness ind(past,sem_rep(Slist),not_uni):-in list(Functor(Repr,Feature)),Slist),uniqueness_relevant(Fu nctor),not unifl'ense,Functor,Feature).
"Slist" is the semantic representation (formu-lated as a Prolog list).
The predicate "in list"checks if an element is a member of the listSlist.
The functor of a list member (Functor)may be defined (iu the data base) as potentiallyrelevant for the uniqueness value (unique-AC~'ES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOl~q" 1992 6 5 5 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992hess_relevant).
For example, functors like "fre-quency" or "durativity", or "act ionkind" aretreated as uniqueness-relevant.
Thus, if the se-mantic representation Slist contains an elementlike: "action_kind(m(use,past), habituality)",i.e.
the representation f the verb brukade, or"frequency (often,indef)", i.e.
the representa-tion of the adverb ofta ('often'), the programmust check whether the combination of thefunctor, the feature specified inside the brackets(like "indef" or "habituality") and the tensevalue (here: past) results in a specific unique-ness value.
As the data base contains the fol-lowing information:not_uni(past,frequency,indef).not_uni(_,_,habituality).the program will decide that a sentence in thepast tense containing an adverb like ofta or afinite verb like brukade does not refer to aunique event-situation.
As a consequence, theimperfective aspect will be preferred when gen-erating the target equivalent.The next step, given the semantic represen-tation and the uniqueness value, is to create anew functional representation, if needed, andthen the appropriate c-representation.
Some-times, the input and the output may have thesame f-representation, and differ only as tosome details in their c-representations, like e.g.simple transitive sentences:Sw. pojken slog ofta hundenthe-boy hit often the-dogPol.
chtopiec czgsto bit psaboy-nom often hit-imp dog-acc/genR.
malZik ~asto bil sobakuboy-nom often hit-imp dog-acef rep(\[subj(m(boy,sg)),pred(m(hit,past),advl(often,indef)\])But in such cases as the Swedish constructionwith brukade there is a need for changing thefunctional representation, as the most naturalway of expressing the feature "habituality" inthe Russian or Polish equivalent is by using theimperfective aspect and (optionally, if the habit-uality should be emphasized) an adverb likeusually.
Such changes are not especially diffi-cult to implement if the semantic representationis used as a kind of interlingua.
In the s-repre-sentation, the infinitive following the habitualitymarking verb brukade is treated as a semantickernel of the event situation.
The program musttherefore find the target equivalent of thesemantic kernel, make it the main predicate,provide the target representation with the rightaspect value and then, optionally, insert an ad-verbial as an extra habituality marker.
Theseoperations result in translations like:Sw. Han brukade komma f f r  senthe used come to latePol.
Zwykle sig spdlniatusually refl-he-was-late-impR.
On obydno pazdyvalhe usually was-late-impRules belonging to types 2) and 3) take care ofcases lacking such obvious uniqueness indicesas in the example above.
Type 2) has access tothe proto_events, i.e.
representations of typicalpredications containing a certain verb.
Aproto_event may have the following structure:proto_event (become engaged,\[actors(\[specific,limited_reff2)),durativity(limited),frequency(low,def),uniqueness(high)I).A type 2) rule applying to a predication contain-ing the predicate meaning 'be engaged' checkswhether the "actors" involved are two specificindividuals and whether there is no violation ofthe other conditions pecified in the description.If the current predication matches most of theelements specified in the frame "proto_event",the uniqueness value of the "proto event" (here:uniqueness (high), which means: unique with ahigh degree of probability) will be ascribed tothe current event-referent.
This means that,when translating a Swedish meaning like Peroch Lisaffrlovade sig ('Per and Lisa becameengaged') the perfective aspect would be cho-sen, whereas the same Swedish verb used in asentence like: Fi~rr i tiden ffrlovade folk sig pdffrgildrarnas order ('in former times, people gotengaged by order of their parents') would berendered by the Russian/Polish imperfectiveverb.The following is an example of a type 2)rule:uniqueness_ind(past,sem_rep(Slist),not_uni):-in list(event_nucl(m(EventNucl_)),Slist),proto_event (EventNucl ,Condlist),in list(uniqueness(high),Condlist),not(cond matching(Slist,Condlist)).The rule states that if the proto_event containingthe semantic kernel of the current predication(EventNucl(eus)) is specified as unique with ahigh degree of probability and if the relevantACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES.
23-28 Ao~r 1992 6 5 6 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES.
AUG. 23-28.
1992elements of the semantic representation f thecurrent sentence do not match the conditionsstored in the proto_event, hen the uniquenessvalue of the event-situation referred to is ."notunique".
Writing specific rules matchingsemantic representations with proto_events iobviously not a trivial task-there are not manyevent-situations which are as easily described asthe case of being engaged.Type 3) rules are the most complicatedones, as the task performed is to compare thecurrent predication both with the proto eventand with the previously stored semantic repre-sentations (including their uniqueness values) inorder to discover possible motivation for aspectchange.
For the time being, only a restrictednumber of cues have been implemented.
Theprogram utilizes principles like:--It is quite probable that parts of a uniqueevent may also be unique, if nocounter-indices (as e.g.
indefinite du~rativity markers) have been found.--A predication which describes the man-ner of performing an already intro-duced event should probably betreated as imperfective (it expresses aproperty of an event-referent, in a waysimilar to a predicative NP: it does notintroduce a new referent, but ascribesa property to an already introducedone).--Adverbials marking a kind of opposition(however etc.)
and their interplay withother adverbials may be importantcues for aspect change.ConclusionsThe main problems when implementing a pro-cedure for aspect generation are to formulateconcise and coherent descriptions of typicalevents, to design an appropriate hierarchy ofrules comparing the current predication with theproto events and to describe conditions foraspect change.
This is a field for further re-search.
Another area for future investigations isfinding cues for aspect choice in constructionscontaining infinitives where the infinitive is notpreceded by an aspectual verb like the verbsmeaning start or finish.
Nevertheless, omeuniqueness indices are possible to formalize andto implement in an MT-system (obviously, asystem accepting lexical and syntactic restric-tions).
Our approach is a kind of compromisebetween different points of view represented incurrent research on aspect: the overt aspect istreated as language-specific, but the conceptualdistinction behind the aspect choice is assumextto be based on the universal notion of unique-ness; furthermore, both seutence-internal andcontextual factors are taken into consideration.The compromise seems to be quite useful.References:Apresjan, Jn.
D. 1980.
Principy semantig~es-kogo opisanija edinic jazyka.
1: Semantilat ipredstavlenie znanij.
Trudy po iskusstven-nomu intellektu 11.
Tart),: Riikiliku UlikooliToinaetised.DcLancey, S. 1982.
Aspect, Transitivity, andViewpoint.
In: Hopper, P. J.
(ed): Tense-Aspect: Between Semantics & Pragmatics,167-184.
Amsterdam/l)hiladelphia: JohnBenjamins Publishing Company.Forsyth, J.
1970.
A grammar of a.vJect.
Usageand meaning in the Russian verb.
Cam-bridge: University PressGawroliska, B.
1990.
"Translation great prob-lem"-on tbe problem of inserting articleswhen translating from Russian intoSwedish.
Proceedings of COLINGo90,vol.
2, 133-138.Grammatika russkogo jazyka (Soviet AcademicGrammar), vol.
2.
1954.
Moskva: NaukaHopper, P.J.
& S. Thompson.
1980.
Transi-tivity in grammar and discourse.
Language56.2, 251-299.Langacker, R. W. 1982.
Remarks on Englishaspect.
In: Hopper, P. J.
(ed): Tense-Aspect: Between Semantics & Pragmatics.265-304.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: JohnBenjamins Publishing Company.Paprott6, W. 1988.
A Discourse Perspectiveon Tense and Aspect in Standard ModernGreek and English.
In: Rudzka-Ostyn, B.
(ed): Topics in Cognitive Linguistics.
447~505.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benja-rains Publishing CompanySigurd, B.
1987.
Referent grammar (RG).
Ageneralized pbrase structure grammar withbuiltqn referents.
Studia Linguistica 1987:2, 115-135.Sigurd, B.
& B. Gawrofiska-Werngren.
1988.The Potential of Swetra-A MultilanguageMT-System.
Computers" arm Translation1988:3,237-25{).Wallace, S. 1982.
Figure and ground.
The in-terrelationships of linguistic ategories.
In:Hopper, P. J.
(ed): Tera'e-Aspect: BetweenSemantics & Pragmatics.
201-223.
Amster-dam/ Philadelphia: John BenjaminsPublishing Company.Ac~s DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Aofzr 1992 a 5 7 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTEs.
AUG. 23-28.
1992
