Genus  D isambiguat ion :  A S tudy  in  Weighted  Pre ference*Rebecca Bruce and Louise GuthrieCompnting Research LaboratolyBox 30001New Mexico State UniversityLos Cruces, NM 88003-0001ABSTRACTThe atttolnatic oustmction of all IS A taxonomy ofnoun senses from a machine readable dictionary(MRD) has long been sought, but achieved with onlylimited success.
The task requires the solution to twoproblems: 1) To define an algorithm to automaticallyidentify the genres or hypemym of a noun definition,and 2) to define an algorithm for lexical disambigua-tion of the genus term.
In the last ~ew years, effec-tive methods for solving the first problem have beendeveloped, but the problem of creating an algorithmfor lexical disambiguation of the genus terms is onethat has proven to be very difficult.
In COL1NG 90we described our itutial work on the automatic rea-tion of a taxonomy of noun senses from Longman'sDictiorlary of Contemporary English (LDOCE).
Thealgorithm for lexical disambiguation of the genusteml was accurate about 80% of the time aid madeuse of the semantic ategories, the subject area luark-ings and the frequency of use uffonnatiou in LDOCE.In this paper we report a series of experimcuts whichweight the three factors in various ways, and describeour improvements to the algorithm (to about 90%accnracy).1.
In t roduct ionMuch of tile previous research on the construc-tion of networks of ganns terms front MRD's(Amsler and White 1979; Chodorow et al 1985;Nakanmra and Nagao 1988; Vossen 1990) rexluiredhuman intervention 1o distinguish fire sanses.Recantly, several researchers (Veronis and Ide 1990;Klavans et.
al 1990; Copestake 1990; Vossen 1991)have suggested techniques for arttomatic disambigua-tion of these taxonomies based on neural net tech-niques, word overlap, or bilingual dictionaries.
The* ThiB r~t rch  w~ ilupported by NSF Grant No.
IRI-8811108.techniques we have used to construct a network ofrialto senses autoluatically from tile Longman Dic-tionary of Coutenlporaly Falglish (LDOCE) differsnbst~mtialiy t+rom any of \[l'tose methods.In (Guthrie et al 1990), we suggested andalgorithm for disanlbiguating the gentls terms of nout~definitmns in LDOCE.
The procedure we nsed wasbased on the assumption that the semantic relation-ship between the headword and its genus should bereflected m their 1,1X)CE semantic categories.
Inother words, the semantic ategory of tim genus wordshould be identical to, or an ancestor of, the semanticcategory of the headword (an ancestor is a super-ordinate term in tire hierarchy ot semaltic codes).tJsthg a tandont saInplc of 520 noun word sanse fromI,DOCE, we tested this assmnption.The semantic ategories used (them ate thirty-four in all) were detined by tile LlYOCE lexicogra-phers, who placed sixteen of ttle basic categories in ahierarchy.
The notion of a "more general semanticcategoly" was somewhat subjective, as is illustratedin tile next section.The disautbiguation algorithm presented th(Guthrie et at.
1990) utilized three factors in deter-mmmg the correct gcnns sense.
The algorithm isstated as follows:?
Choose tile genns sense with tile same senlalltiCcategory as the headword (or closest more gan-eral category if this is not possible).+ In the case of a tie, chonsca sense with has thesanle pragnlatic (?le" In case there is still a tie,, or no germs sensemeeting tim above criteria, choose the most fle-quently used sense:l: of the gemls word.
:c In lh~ 2nd edition of LDOCE, rio: publidaors st?,t~ fltatthe ot'd~l" ill which word ~lBe8 me liate~l correspondn to amfieatuency with which each ~nne i+ u~e.d (ie.
the tir+t ~naeli~?d in ti le most conmmnly u~d, ate.).
W~ have obnelvadACRES DE COL1NG-92, NAND~S, 23-28 AO~r 1992 1 1 8 7 PROC.
OF COL1NG-92, NANrES, AUG. 23 28, 1992The algorithm was successful abont 80% of the time.In an effort to improve the disambiguationalgorithm, we condncted a series of experimentsdesigned to identify more completely the contributionof each factor consider hi the algorithm.
Since weconsidered three factors in determining the correctgenus sense (the semantic ode relationship, the prag-matic code relationship, and the frequency informa-tion), we designed experiments o first test each fac-tor separately, and then again in combination, weight-ing each input according to its individual predictivevalue.
Below we describe those experiments, begin-ning with the formulation of each factor, and undhigwith the assignment of weights to the contribution ofeach input in file final disambiguation algorithm.2.
Sense  Se lec t ion  Based  on  LDOCE Semant icCodesThis section describes our investigation of theuse of semantic ategory information for disambigua-lion, and outlines the problems in using that type ofinformation.
The basic hierarchical strlmtum of thesemantic odes provided by LDOCE is depicted inFigure 1.
In addition to the codes positioned in thattree structure, seventeen other codes, which we referto as "composite" are defined as follows:E = solid or liquidU = collective and animal or humanO = animal or human (sex tmspecified)K = male (ammal or human)R = female (animal or human)V = plant or animal (not human)W = abstract and inanimateY = abstract or animateX = not concrete or animal (abstract or htunan)Z = unmarked (no semantic restriction)1 = human and solid2 = abstract and solid3 = "it" as subject or object4 = physical quantities5 = organic materials6 = liquid and abstract7 = gas and liquidTo evaluate our assumption that the semanticcategory of the genus word is the same or more gen-that the listing order of senses in the let edition of LDOCE issimilm" to that of the 2rid, tnd  have found empirical evidencein tim work of Guo (19891 mad this Itudy to show that ?
simi-htr connection botwtam the ord*r in which word ~n~ Jrolisted And the, fr~luoney with which they arm uJcd (inLDOCE) holds for the l i t  edition u well.era) than the semantic ategory of the headword, itwas necessary to define what we meant by "moregeneral" for the composite categories.
We did this byincorporating the composite codes into the hierarchi-cal structure display in Figure 1, and defining asemantic distance between word senses based on theplacement of their respective codes in the hierarchy.It was obvious from the start that the addition ofthese cedes te the tree depicted in Figure 1 wouldcreate a tangled hierarchy.
The problem was todecide where these codes should be placed in the treestnlctnre in order to preserve inheritance.
For exmn-pie, shenld "E" (the code for "solid or liquid") beplaced above or below "solid" and "liquid", andwould a similar placement hold for code 7, whichreads "gas AND liquid" (as opposed to "liquid ORsolid")?T C(abstract) (coacrete)\] Q(inanimate) (animate)S L G P A H(mtid) (liquid) (gas) (plant) (animal) (l~umanlJ N B D M F(movable tnotmovable (animal (animal (humnn (buntnnsolid) u~l )  \[emale) male) male} female)Figure 1:Basic Hierarchy of LDOCE Semantic CodesTo answer such questions, two types of studieswere conducted.
The first was an in-depth look at thewords marked with composite codes (nouns markedto identify a semantic ategory and adjectives andverbs marked as to their selection restrictions).
Thesecond was a survey of the genus senses for head-words with composite semantic odes.
As might beexpected, there were inconsistencies in the assign-ment of nouns categories.
For example, within the"liquid" categories, we observed that nouns whichrepresent both liquids and solids can be found in bothcategories L and E, mad abstractions of liquids can befound in categories L, 6, and 7.
This is not surpris-ing, as it is difficult to create distinct categories foroverlapping concepts.ACRES DE COLING-92, NANTEs, 23-28 AOt;l" 1992 1 !
8 8 PROC.
OI: COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992Our proposed placement of composite codeswithin the hierarchy structure provided by LDOCE ispresented in Figure 2.
In constructing Figure 2, weattempted to create a hierardly which would reflectnot only the data gathered on the properties of wordsassigned to each category, but also the most fre-quently occurring superset for each composite code,based on tire results of tile second study.Z(no semantic rlnltriction)/2T,W,X,Y~2,4,6,7 C(abstract) (concrete)LW Q,Y,S(inanimate) (animate)S,E,1,2,5 L,E,~,7 G,7 P,V A,O,V It,O,X,l(Iolid) (liquid) (gas) (plant) (animal) (human)J N F,,R D,K M,K  F,R(movable (m~ movable (msmull (aalmal (human (humansalkl) solid) femnle) male) auk) female)Figure 2:Revised Hierarchy of LDOCE Semantic CodesBased on this study of the semantic odes usedin LDOCE, three inlplelnentations of a partial genussense selection algorittun (partial becanse at this timewe are only considehng the contribution made by thesemantic ode comparison to sense selection) werefound to be possible.
They are as follows:I.
Selection of the genus sense with a minimumsemantic distance fiom the headword sense,where semantic distance is measured by theplacement of the respective codes in the hierar-chy presented in Figure 2.
(This formulation ofa genus sense selection criteria is the basis ofthe algorithm reported in Guthrie et al 1990.)2.
Choose the genus sense with a semantic odebelonging to fire stone code set as fire code ofthe headword, where the code sets are thenodes of the tree structure presented in Figure2.3.
Select the genus sea\]se with a semantic odeidentical to the headword.3.
Sense Select ion Based on LDOCE Pragmat icCodesTile pragmatic codes in LDOCE are another setof terms organized into a hierarchy, although thehierarchy provided by LDOCE is quite fiat.
Asstated earlier, these terms are used to classify wordsby subject area.
The LDOCE pragmatic oding sys-tem divides all possible subjects into 124 majorcategories, ranging frmn aeronautics, aerospace, andagriculture, to winter.sports, and zoology.
The hierar-chy is only two layers deep, and the 124 majolcategories have equal aa~d unrelated status.Slator (1988) m\]plemented a scheme whichimposed eeper structure onto the LDOCE pragmaticcode hierarchy.
He restructured the LDOCE prag-matic code hierarchy by making Communication,Economics, Entertainment, Household, Politics, Sci-ence, and Transportation flmdamental categories, andgrouping all other pragmatic codes under those head-ings.
His restructuring of tile code hierarchy revealedthat words classified under Botany have pragmaticconnectious to words classified as Plant-Names, aswell as connections with other words classified underScience.We investigated four implementations of agerms sea~se selection algorittun based on pragmaticcodes.
The first implementation utilized the hierar-chy developed by Slator.
In that schelne, file prag-matic cedes were arranged in a tree structure inwhich each node of the tree is a single pragmatice(xle.In addition, pragmatic code sets were defineddireedy from Slator's hierarchy by creating sevenlarge groups cort~..sponding to the seven subtrees oftile top level of the hierarchy.
Each of the seve~lcode sets contained all codes descendant from tirecorrespending top level node.
Within this construc-tion, lack of common set menthership is a strongindication of disjoint subject areas.In summa\[y, we proposed four approaches togenus sense selection based on praglnatic codes:1.
Choose the ganus sense with minimmn prag-matic distance from the headword sense, wherepragmatic distance is measured by the place-ment of the respective codes in the hierarchyimplenlented by Slator.2.
Select the genus sense with a pragmatic odebelonging to the sane code set as the code ofthe headword.
Seven code sets were con-stmcted corresponding to the seven major diviosinus of Slator's baerarcby.3.
Rule out all headword/genus sense combina~tions with pragmatic odes that are not in thesame code set.AclT,:s DE COL1NG-92, NANTES, 23-28 AO~I 1992 1 1 8 9 Paoc.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES, AUo.
23-28.
19924.
Select the genns sense with a pragmatic odeidentical to the headword.4.
Resu l ts  o f  the  Exper imentat ionAll tests of the proposed sense selectien 6riteriawere mn on the same random sample of 520definitions.
Table I provides a summary of therelevant test results.
Although each selectionmechanism was evaluated separately, because of thelarge nmnber of word senses having either redundautcode markings, or no markings at all (particularlywith pragmatic odes), it was necessary to introducea default or "tie breaking" mechanism for all selec-tion criteria other than usage frequency.
Usage fie-quency was established as the default selectionmechanism for all tests.
When no sense selection (orno nnique sense selection) could be made based onthe criteria beiug tested, the sense selection wasbased on usage fi'equency (ie., of the competingsenses, the sense cccurrmg first in the listing orderwas selected).The variation in performance between allapproaches developed for genus sense selection wasrelatively small - no more than 8%.
Both the bestmad the worst performance of a single sense selectionparameter was achieved using pragmatic code rela-tionships.
The best performance (80% success rate)resulted from requiring identical code markings forheadword and genus senses.
The worst disambigua-tion performance was the resnlt of sense selectionbased on common pragmatic code set membership.The variation in disambiguation performance wassmall in the experiments which used only the seman-tic code information.
The maximum success rate of77% resulted fi'om stipulating common code setmembership, while the minimmn success rate was75% for identical code designation.Some of the test results were uI~expected: forinstance, we did not expect selectien of the first senselisted to yield a 76% success rate.
Net did we expectsense selection based on a subset/superset relation-ship between codes to be as unsuccessful as it was,yielding no more than a 78% success rate for bothpragmatic and semantic odes.Although the experiments howed that a directinatch of pragmatic codes was the most successfiflsingle selectiou mechanism, the result is somewhatmisleading.
Because many words have no pragmaticcede, the defanlt rule was applied often, resulting inthe selection of the most frequently used sense, l-lav-ing said that, it remains true that the tests show prag-matic code information to be the best predictor of thecorrect genus sense, when it is present.SUMMARY OF DISAMBIGUATION EXPERIMENTSGENUS SENSE SELECTION TEST RESULTSMECHANISM ~,i ?
i iSe.le~on b4u~ oft t~a'mntic codes:,~rupcr t~t  rd~onthip,iml:~,emeaated withcode hiex~chy 75% corn~common code ~t  membership 77% cc~mctidcatiod code dcsigntdon 75%Sclc~ic4a bated o~ Ft, agmatic codea:ootra'noa code set membenhip 72% correctq,,a~,,d)tx~rrmm,n code let membenthip 72% eotre~(exduIive), , id led  txlde deAignalioft 80% correctSeie.oion bated on Usage frequency:Weighted.
3 pammemr S~teetion Algorithmcommon :mnumdc eodc tO.
- weight 1id,mtieal p.mgraatic code - weight I 80%u~ frotu~cy - tie breakereonma, ma *umatntic code v.~ - weight 1ideatiett Intgauttic ode - we/S/at 2 80% correctusage frequency - ti~ b~tkerram.male ~ hierarchy - weight 1 I 2 .
.
.
.potgnuttte code hicnm~hy - weight 2 79% correctu~ frequoacy - ~ ~er,mmmatic code tet - weight 1idmttieal pragmatic eodc - w~ght 2 90% cotretamttgc ft'equea~ - tie hi~k~b~u~l-ca~ ~xcttai~s.indt~ledTable 1: Suatmary ofDisambiguation ExperimentsTable 1 also displays file results of tests per-formed using all three factors in combination.
Theseexperiments were conducted to determine theoptimum weight to assign each of the three factorswhen considering their ctanulative predictive capabil-ity.
The selection of weights was based on the per-formance of each factor individually.
Again, thevariation in performance across all tests of differentweighings was small (less than 1%).
The highestsuccess rate was achieved when pragmatic codeinformation received tile greatest weight.As a result of these tests, our disambiguationalgorithm was forumlated as follows:?
Choese the most frequently used genus senseunless an altemate sense choice is indicated bya strong relationship between headword andgenus codes, either semantic or pragmatic.
* If the sense selection based on semantic odesdiffers from that inferred by the pragmaticACYES DE COLING-92, NANqES, 23-28 AOt~,r 1992 i 1 9 0 I)ROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUtL 23-28, 1992codes, base file seine selection on tile prag-nlatic cedes.?
Select among conlpeting germs senses withidentical code markings by choosing the mostfrequently used sense.By a "strong relationship" in the case ofsemantic odes, we nlean menlbership in file saiuecode set.
This is not surprising due to the limitedscope of the code sets, and the inhel~nt overlap of thecomposite codes.
Strong relationship for pragmaticcodes means an exact ulatch.5.
The Final Disambiguation AlgurlthmReview of tile output data from e, ach disaarbi-guation trial using tile tilrec parmncter algorithmrevealed that tile majority of the failures were on avery small number of frequently occurring germswords.
Often, the pragmatic and senainticclassifications of these word senses were eitherdeficient (lacking in code information), or redrmdant(more than one word sense having the Sanle nmrk-ings).
Such situations frequently arise with veryabstract words (e.g.
pat,  quality, piece, aridntmaber) where fllere are nnnlerous word seaises, andmost (if not all) senses have identical semmltic odesmid no pragmatic codes.The filial modificahon to onr gentts ense selec-tion algorithm was introduced to solve this problenl:the correct sense selections fol words with errors intheir code information, as well as certain very generalwords are pre-selected, and assumed to be constant.Fewer than ten words required haild coding of thecorrect sense and ahnoat all were abstract words suchas part or quality.
While it is tlue that tile majorityof these words are "disturbed heads" (Gnthrie et al1990), and will, in the fnture, not seive as geimsterms but rather as identifiers of alternate link types,we still require that they be sense disambignated toserve as relation descriptors.
This fiiml modificationto the sense selection algorithm mcleased pelfol-malice by 10%, resulting in success rate of 90%.6, ReferencesAmsler, Robert A., and Jotm S. White (1979).DevelopmeJtt of a Computational Methodologyfor Deriving Natural Lairguage Semailtic Struc-tures via Analysis of Maehine-leadable Dic-tionaries.
Technical Report MCS77-01315,NSF.Copestake A.
(1990).
An approach to building thehierarchical element of a lexical knowledgebase from a nmchine readable dictionary,Proceedings of the First InternationalWorkshop on htheritance inNatural LanguageProcessing, Tilburg, The Nethellands, pp.
19-29.Clnxiurow, Martin S., Roy J. Byrd, and George E.lteidorn (1983).
Extracting Semantic Hierar'-cities fiurn a Large On-Line Dichonary.Prot:eedings of the 23rd Annual Meeting of theACL, Chicago, IL, USA, pp.299-304.Gno, Cheng-Ming (1989).
Constructing a MachineTractable Dictionary From Longman Diction-ary of Contemporary Farglish, Memoranda inComputer and Cognitive Science, MCCS-89-156.
Computing Research Laboratory, NewMexico State University.Gutinie, Louise, Brian Slator, Yorick Wilks, andRebecca Bluce (1990).
Is there content illEmpty tleads?
Proceedings of the 13th Interna-tional Conference on Computational Linguis-tics (COLING-90), Helsil~i, Finland, 3,pp.138-143.Klavails, J., Chodorow, M., Wacholder, N. (1990).From Dictionary to Knowledge Base Via Tax-onomy.
Proc.
of tile 6th Conference UWCenter for ttw.
New OED, Waterloo, pp.
110-132.Nakanlura, Jnn-ichi, and Makoto Nagao (1988).Extraction of Semantic hfformation fronl anOJdinary English Dictionary and its Evaluation.Proceedings of the 12th International Confer-enee on Computational ldnguistics (COIJNG-88), Budapest, Hungary, pp.459-464.Slator, Brian M (1988).
Constructing ContextuallyOrganized Lexical Semailtic Knowledge-bases.Proceedings of the Third Annam Rocky Moun-tain CorCercnce on Artificial Intelligence(RMCAI-88), De, nvel, CO, pp.
142-148.lde, N.N.
and J Veronis (1990).
Very Large NeuralNetworks for Word Sense Disambignation.European Conference on Artificial Intelligence,ECAI '90, Stockhohn.Vossen, P. (199l).
Polysemy and Vagueness ofMeailing l)eseiiptions in the Longman Diction-aiy of Contemporary English.
In J. Svartvikmid 11.
Wekkel (eds.
), 7bpics in Englishldnguisties.
Mouton de Gluyter.Acql~s DF COLING-92, NAN'I'ES, 23-28 AOt;r 1992 1 1 9 l PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANq'ES, AUG. 23-28, 1992
