Prevent ing False Temporal  Implicatures:Interactive Defaults for Text Generation*J on  Ober lander  and  A lex  Lascar idesCent re  for Cogn i t ive  Sc ience and I l uman Communicat ion  l{csearch  Cent reUn ivers i ty  of Fd inburgh2 Bucc leuch  P lace ,  F, d inburgh  El l8 91,W Scot landIn t roduct ionGiven the causal and temporal relations betweenevents in a knowledge base, what are the ways theycan be described in text?Elsewhere, we have argued that during interpreta-tion, the reader-hearer H must iufer certain tempe,ra\[ information from knowledge about the world, lan-guage use and prugmatics.
It is generally agreed thatprocesses of Gricean implicature help determine theinterpretation of text in context.
But without a no-tion of logical consequo_nce to underwrite them, thein fercnccs~ftcn  defea~sib\]e in nature will appeararbitrary, and unprincipled, llence, we have exploredthe requirements on a formal model of temporal im-plicature, and outlined one possible nonmonotouicframework for discourse interpretation (La.scarides &Asher \[1991\], Lascarides & Oberlander \[1992a\]).ttere, we argue that if the writer-sllcakcr S is totailor text to H, then discourse generation can beinformed by a similar formal model of implicaturc.We suggest wo ways to do it: a version of \[\[obbs etal's \[1988, 1990\] Generation as Abduction; and theInteractive Defaults strategy introduced by aoshi etal \[1984a, 1984b, 1986\].
In investigating the latterstrategy, the basic goal is to determine how notionsof temporal reliability, precision and coherence callbe used by a nonmonotonic logic to constrain thespace of possible utterances.
We explore a defea.siblereasoning framework in which the interactions be-tween the relative knowledge bases of S and H helpsdo this.
Finally, we briefly discuss limitations of thestrategy: in particular, its apparent marginalisationof discourse structure.The paper focuses very specitically on implicaturesof a temporal nature.
~lb examine tile relevant exam-pies in sufficient detail, we have had to exclude dis-cussion of many closely related issues in the theoryof discourse structure, rib motivate tbis restriction,let us therefore consider first why we might wantto generate discourses with structures which lead totemporal complexities.
*The ~uthors gratefully acknowledge the support ofthe Science and Engineering Research Council throughproject number on/G22077,  tIORO is supported by theEconomic and Social Research Council.
We thank ouranonymous reviewer for their helpful comments.
Emailcontact: jonQcogaci.ed, ac.ukGett ing  Th ings  Out  o f  OrderConsider tile following suggestion for generating tex:tuul descril)tions of causal-temporal structures, I)e-scribe things in exactly the order in which they hap-pened.
If textual order is maAe to match eventual or-der, then perhaps little can go wrong; for the bearercan safely a.ssume that all the texts she bears arenarrative.
Under these circumstances, the problemof selecting adequate regions in the space of utter-ances pretty much (lis~solw~s.
We do not believe thatthis suggestion will work, in general, and considerhere two 0.rgunlelltS against it.Hovy 's  a rgumentBasically, the generation strategy snggested abovefails to emphasise the force of some eventualities overothers (cf.
the nncleus-satellite distinction in RST).A useful device for emphasis is the topic-couuuentstructure: we mention the important event first, andthen the others, which till out or give further detailabout that important event.
These 'comments' onthe 'topic' may be elfects, but they could also bc thecause of the topic.
If the latter, then textual orderand temporal order mismatch; the text is a cmlsalexplanation i  such cases, and having only narrativcdiscourse structure available would preclude its gen--era, ion.
Compare (1) and (2), modified from Ilovy\[199o\].
(1) First, J im bumped Mike once and hurt him.Then they fought.
Eventually, Mike stabbedhim.
As a result, aim died.
(2) aim died in a fight with Mike.
After J im InunpedMike once, they fought, and eventually Mikestabbed him.The textual order in (1) matches temporal order,whereas ill (2) there is mismatctL And yet (2) isnmch better than (1).
This is bccause the 'impor-tant '  event is J im's death.
Everything mentionedin (1) leads up to this.
But because, the events arementioned in their temporal order, the text obscuresthe fact that al l  the events led to J im's death, eventhough syntactic markers like and then  and as a re-suR  are used.The causal groupings are clearer in (2) becauseit's clear during incremental processing that the textfollowing tile mention of J im's death is a descriptionof how it came about.
Th is  is so even thougtl ,toAc'II~,S DE COLlNG-92, NANWI..'S, 23-28 AOt~-r 1992 7 2 1 Pnoe.
or: COLING-92, NnrctT.s, Auo.
23-28, 1992syntactic markers indicate this causal structure.
Bycontrast, in (1) the reader realises what's going ononly at tile last sentence.
The discourse structure istherefore unclear until the whole text is heard, forthe narrative requires a common topic which is onlystated at the end.So (2)'s a better discourse than (1); but we wouldnever generate it, if textual order had to mirror even-tual order.
If a generation system were permitted togenerate (2), however, a price must be paid.
Theproper interpretation of (2) relies on the recruitmentof certain causal information, left implicit by the ut-terance.
The generator thus bas some responsibil-ity for ensuring that the interpreter accomplishes therequired inferences.
A formal model of impticaturemust be folded into the generation process, so thatthe appropriate reasoning can proceed.States |nteract  w i th  causal  in fo rmat ionIll La.scarides and Oberlander \[1992\], we consideredin detail the following pair of examples:(3) Max opened the door.
The room was pitch dark.
(4) Max switched off the light.
The room was pitchdark.Now, no-one would want to say that (3) involved aroom becoming pitch dark immediately after a doorwas opened.
Rather, most accounts (such as thosebased in or around DRT, such as ttinrichs \[1986\]) willtake the state of darkness to overlap tile event ofdoor-opening.
That 's  how one might say states aredealt with in a narrative: events move things along;states leave them where they are.
But if we have apiece of causal information to hand, things axe ratherdifferent.
In (4), it seems that the state doesn't over-lap the previously mentioned event.If one wishes to preserve the assumption about therole of states in narrative, it would have to be weak-ened to the constraint that states either leave thingswhere they are, or move them along.
This is not avery convincing move.
An alternative is to formalisethe role of the additional causal knowledge.
Infor-mally, the basis for the distinct interpretations of (3)and (4) is that the interpretation of (4) is informedby a causal preference which is lacking in the caseof (3): if there is a switching off of the light and aroom's being dark that are connected by a causal,part/whole or overlap relation, then normally oneinfers that the former caused the latter.
This knowl-edge is defeasible, of course.
In generation, suchknowledge will constrain the space of adequate utter-ances; if H lacks the defeasible causal knowledge thatswitching off lights cause darkness, then (4) won't beadequate for H,  who will interpret (4) in the sameway as (3), contrary to S's intentions.
Given this,S must contain a defeasible reasoning component tocompute over such knowledge.The important point for now is that even if we de-scribe things in the order in which they are assumedto happen, this doesn't necessarily make the candi-date utterance a good one.
if the speaker and thehearer possess differing world knowledge, there maybe problems in retrieving the correct causal-temporalstructure.Two Methods  o f  Generat ing  w i thDefeas ib le  KnowledgeGenerat ion  by Defeas ib le  Reason ingThere is a very general way in which we might viewinterpretation and generation in terms of defensiblereasoning.
Consider the process of discourse inter-pretation as one of KB extension.
The K8 containsan utterance-interpretation, and a set of knowledgeresources; the latter may include general knowledgeof the world, knowledge of linguistic facts, knowledgeabout tire discourse so far, and about the speaker'sknowledge state.
We then try to extend the KB soas to include the discourse interpretation.
Considernow the process of generation; it too can be thoughtof as KB extension.
Tills time, the KB contains atemporal-causal structure, and a set of knowledgeresources, perhaps identical to that used in interpre-tation.
We now try to extend the KB so as to in-clude the realization of a linguistic structure's seman-tic features (with predicates, arguments, connectives,orderings), where these features ensure that the finallinguistic string describes the causal structure in theKB.
This view might be described as generation bydefeasible reasoning.Modulo more minor differences, these notions areclose to the ideas of interpretation as abduction(Hobbs et al\[1988\]) and generation as abduction(ltobbs et al\[1990:26-28\]), where we take abduc-tion, in the former case for instance, to be a processreturning a temporal-causal structure which can ex-plain the utterance in context.
Correspondences be-tween a defensible deduction approach and an ab-ductive approach ave been established by Konolige\[1991\]; he shows that the two are nearly equivalent,tire consistency-based approach being slightly morepowerful \[1991:15-16\], once closure axioms are addedto the background theory.
Lascarides & Oberlander\[1992b\] discuss ill detail how such a generation pro-cess produces temporally adequate utterances.In teract ive  defau l tsHere, we turn to another, less powerful but simpler,method of applying defensible reasoning: the Interac-tive Defaults (ID) strategy introduced by Joshi, Web-ber and Weischedel \[1984a, 1984b, 1986\].
Ratherthan considering the defeasible process a.s applyingdirectly to the KS's causal network, we instead con-sider its role as constraining or debugging candidatelinearised utterances, generated by some otimr pro-cess; here we will remain neutral on the nature ofthat originating process.A speaker S and a hearer H interact through adialogue; a writer S and a reader t l  interact hrougha text.
Joshi et alargue that it is inevitable that bothS and H infer more from utterances than is explicitlycontained within them.
Taking Griee's \[1975\] Maximof Quality seriously, they argue that since both .5' andH know this is going to happen, it is incumbent uponS to take into account he implicatures II is likelyto make on the basis of a candidate utterance.
If Sdetects that something S believes to be false will beamong H's  implicatures, S must block that inferencesomehow.
The basic way to block it is for S to useACRES DE COLING-92, NANrF~, 23-28 AotYr 1992 7 2 2 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28.
1992a different utterance; one which S does not believewill mislead H.In terms of defeasible reasoning, the point is thatS must use it to calculate the consequences of thecandidate utterance; if the process allows the deriva-tion of something S believes to be false, the utteranceshould not be used in its current form.
Joshi et alillustrate with tile following example; given the KBin (5), and the question in (6), they want the processto show why the answer in (7b) is preferred to thatin (7a):(5) Sam is an associate professor; most associateprofessors are tenured; Sam is not tenured.
(6) ls Sam an associate professor?
(7) a. Yes.b.
Yes, but he is not tenured.We wish to elaborate this interactive defaults trat-egy 0D), and consider in greater formal detail the de-feasible reasoning al)out causal-temporal strncturesthat S and H are assumed by S to indulge itl; and toconsider which candidate utterances arc eliminatedon this basis.D iscourse  St ructure  and  Tempora lConst ra in tsID requires a theory of implicatnrc in terms of de-faults, and an underlying logical notion of nonrnono-tonic or defensible inference.
We also require a for-mal eharacterisation f the properties an adequatecandidate utterance must possess; we define thesebelow in terms of temporal coherence, reliability andprecision.
Fnrthermore, we assume a model of dis-course structure is required.
For certain discourserelations, such as Narration and Explanation, areimplicated from candidate utterances (cf.
texts (1)and (2)), and these impose certain temporal relationson tile events described.
We turn to this latter issuefirst.Discourse  S t ruc ture  and  In fe renceThe basic model in which we embed ID assumes thatcandidate discourses possess hierarchical structure,with units linked by discourse relations modelledafter those proposed by Hobbs \[1985\].
Lascarides& Asher \[1991\] use Narration, Explanation, llaek-ground, Result and Elaboration.
They provide a log-ical theory for determining the discourse relationsbetween sentences in a text, and the temporal rela-tions between the events they describe.
The logicused is the nonmonotonic logic Common Sense En-tailment (CE) proposed by Asher & Morreau \[1991\].Implieatures are calculated via default rules.
Forexample, they motivate the following rules as man-ifestations of Gricean-style pragmatic maxims andworld knowledge, where the clauses a and/3 appearin that order in the text.
Informally:?
Narrat ionIf clauses ~ and/3 are discourse-related, then nor-mally Narration(c~,/~) holds.?
Ax iom on  Nar ra t ionIf Narration(c~,/3) holds, and c~ and /3 describeevents e1 and e7 respectively, then el occurs beforee2.
* Exp lanat ionIf claus~ ~ and fl are discourse-related, and tileevent described in fl caused that described in ?v,then normally Ezplanalion(e~,\[t) holds.
* Ax iom on Explanat loxtIf Ezplanation(c~,\[t) holds, then event el de-scribed by c~ does not occur bcfore event e2 de-scribed by/3.?
Causal  LawIf clauses c~ and fl are discourse-related, and (~ de-scribes the event c I of x fidling and fl the event e2of y pushing x, then normally c2 causes el.?
Causes  Precede EffectsIf event e~ eanses el~ t\]lell c I doesn ' t  occur  bcforee2.The rules for Narration and l"xplanation constitutedefe~iblc tingnistic knowledge, and the Axioms onthem, indefeasible linguistic knowledge.
Thc CausalLaw is a mixture defea-sible linguistic knowledgeand worhl knowledge: given that tim clauses arediseourse-rclated somehow, the events they describemust he commetcd in a causal, part/wholc or over-lap relation; here, given the events in question, theymust staud i l l a  causal relation~ if things are nor-real.
That Causes Precede the.it Etfcets is in(lethtmi-ble world knowledge.
These rules arc used under thecE inference regime to infer the discourse structuresofcandidate texts.
Two i)atterns of inference are par-ticularly relevant: Defensible Modus Ponens (birdsnormally fly, Twecty is a bird; sn Tweety flies); andthe Penguin Principle (all penguins are birds, birdsnormally fly, penguius normally don't fly, q'weety isa penguin; so Tweety doesn't fly).For example, in thc absence of information to thecontrary, the only one of the rules whose antecedentis satisfied in interpreting text (8) is Narration.
(8) Max stood up.
John greeted hinl.Other things being equal, wc infer via DefeasibleModus Ponens that the Narration relation holds be-tween (8)'s clauses, thus yielding, assuming logicalomniscience, an interprctation where the descriptiveorder of events matches their temporal order.
Onthe other band, in interl)reting text (9), in the ab-sence of further information, two defanlt laws haw~their antecedents satisfied: Narration and the CausalLaw.
(9) Max fell.
John pusbed him.The consequents of these default laws cannot bothhold in a consistent Ks.
By the Penguin Principle,the law with the more specific antecedent wins: theCausal Law, because its antecedent logically entailsthat of Narration.
\]\[lence, (9) is interpreted a.s a ca.sewhere the pushing caused the falling.
In turn, thisentails that the antecedent to Explanation is veri-fied; and whilst conflicting with Narration, it's morespecific, and hence its consequent--Ezplanation--follows by the Penguin Principle.
Compare this with(8): similar logical forms, bnt different discoursestructures, and different emporal structures:IThe formal details of how the logic oE models theseAOrES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Aour \] 992 7 2 3 I)ROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES, AtJ(J.
23-28, 1992Tempora l  Const ra in tsSo against this background, what are tile proper-ties we require of cmldidate utterances?
We concen-trate on those constraints that are central to tem-poral import.
Following Bach \[1986\], we take 'even-tualities' to cover both events and states.
We de-fine lemporal coherence, temporal reliabilily and lera-petal precision--the notions that will characterisethe adequacy of an utterauce--iu terms of a setC of relations between eventualities.
This set in-tuitively describes when two eventualities are con-nected.
The relations ill C are: causation, thepart/whole relation, 2 temporal overlap, and the im-mediately precedes relation (where 'et immediatelyprecedes e2 ' means that el and e 2 stand ill a causal orpart/whole relation that is compatible with el tcmporally preceding e2).
s The definitions are:?
Tempora l  CoherenceA text is temporally coherent if the reader can in-fer that at least one of tile relations in C holds be-tween the eventualities described m tile sentences.?
Tempora l  Rel iabi l i tyA text is temporally reliable if one of the rcla-tions in C which the reader infers to hold doesin fact hold between tile eventualities described inthe sentences.?
Tempora l  Precis ionA text is temporally precise if whenever the readerinfers that one of a proper subset of the relationsin C holds between the eventualities described inthe sentences, then she is also able to infer which.A text is temporally incoherent if the natural inter-pretation of the text is such that there are no in-ferrable relations between the events.
A text is tem-porally unreliable if tim natural interpretation of thetext is such that the inferred relations between tileevents differ from their actual relations in the world.In addition, a text is temporally imprecise, or as weshall say, ambiguous, if the natural interpretation oftile text is such that the reader knows that one ofa proper subset of relations in C holds between theeventualities, but the reader can't infer which of thisproper subset holds.It follows from the above definitions that a text callbe coherent but unreliable.
On the other hand, theremay be no questiou about reliability simply becausewe cannot establish a temporal or causal relation be-tween the two eventualities.
At any rate, a generatedutterance is adequate only if it is temporally coher-ent, reliable and precise.
We intend to apply tile IDstrategy to eliminate candidate utterances that areinadequate in this sense.interpretations, and those of (3) versus (4), are given inLascarides & Asher \[1991\].
Note that although doubleapplications of the Penguin Principle, as in (9), are notvalid in genera\], they show that for the particular caseconsidered here, o~ validates the double application.2We think of 'el is part of e2 ~ in terms of Moens andSteedman's \[1988\] event erminology, as 'el is part of thepreparatory phase or consequent phase of e2'.aWe a~SUllle that an eYeut el precedes an event e2if el's culmination occurs before e2's.
So there arepart/whole relations between el and e~ that are com-patible with el temporally preceding e2.App ly ing  the  ID  s t ra tegyBefore applying ID with temporal constraints, wemust consider the possible relations between theknowledge of speaker S and that which speaker Shas about hearer H's knowledge state.
Notice, in-cidentally, that Joshi et alexplicitly adopt the viewthat \]D is for debugging candidate utterances.
Inprinciple, their framework, however, is more general.Although the idea of debugging is intuitive, we shallsometimes talk in terms of constraining the space ofpossible utterances, rather than of debugging specificutterances.
The definitions of temporal constraintsare relevant either way.Re la t ive  KBsLet B(S) be S's beliefs about the KS, linguisticknowledge (LK) and world knowledge (WK).
LetB+(H) be S's beliefs about what H believes aboutttle KB, LK and WK.
And let B-(H)  be S's beliefsabout what H doesn't know about the KIL LK andWK (so B+(H) and B-(H)  are mutually exclusive).Problems concerning reliability and precision arisewhen B(S) and B+(H) are different, and when S'sknowledge of what H believes is partial (i.e.
for somep, p ?
13+(H) and p q B-(I I)).
Suppcme that S'sgoal is to convey the content of a proposition corntained in his KB, say q.
Suppose also that a WFF pis relevant o generating a particular utterance de-scribing q.
Then there are several possible relationsbetween B(S), B+(H) and B-(H)  that concern p:?
Case 1S knows p and also knows that H does not:p C B(S) and p ~_ B- (H)?
Case 2S knows p and isn't sure whether H does or not:p e 13(S) and p q B+(H) and p q B- (H)?
Case 3H potentially knows more about p than S does:p f\[ B(S) and p ?.
B+(H) and p f\[ 11-(II)?
Case 4S thinks H is mistaken in believing p:p ff 11(S) and p e B+(H)Of course, the cases where both S and H both believep (p E B(S) and p e B+(II)) and where neitherdo (p q B(S) and p C B-(H))  are unproblematic,and so glossed over here.
We look at each of theabove cases in turn, considering tile extent o whichtile definitions of reliability, coherence and precisionhell) us eonstraiu the utterance space (or alternately,debug candidate utterances).Case  1: ~'?
knows  more  about  p than  HWe now examine the problems concerning reliabilitythat arise when p E B(S) and p E B-(H).
Thereare two possibilities: either p represents defeasibleknowledge of tile lmlguage or the world, or p is somefact in the Km We investigate these in turn.p is defeaslble knowledge Let p be a dcfeasiblelaw that represents knowledge that S has and whichS knows H lacks.
~lb illustrate, take the case wherep is the causal preference introduced earlier:ACrEs DE COL1NG-92, NANTES, 23-28 ho~r 1992 7 2 4 PROC.
OF COL1NG-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992?
Causal  LawIf the clauses ,~ and fl are discourse related, antic~ and /7 describe respectively the events el of xfalling aud e2 of y pushing x, then normally e~caused e I ?Consider the ca.qc where S intends to convey theproposition that John's pushing Max caused the lat-ter to fall.
Suppose S has a KB which will allow her togenerate the description in (9), among others.
(9) Max fell.
John pushed llim.We have argued that this text is coherent, preciseand reliable for S because tile causal aw (about theusual causal relation between pushings and failings)is more specific than the linguistic ride (Narration).But since H lacks the causal law, (9) will trigger adifferent inference pattern in H; one in which Nar-ration wins after all.
S must block this pattern bychanging the utterance; she has eascntially two op-tions.
If clause order is kept fixed, then ,5' could shift,tense into the pluperfect im in (10); or else S caninsert a clue word, such as because, into tile surfaceform, to generate (11):(10) Max fell.
John \]lad pushed him.
(11) Max fell because John pushed him.The success of tile latter tactic requires ,'5' and H tonmtually know a new linguistic rule, more specificttlan Narralion, such as the following: 4?
Non-ev ldent ia l  ~Becaus&If c~ and/3 are discourse-related, and the text seg-ment is (r because fl, then normally tile ewmt liescribed in ~ caused that described in/7.On tile otimr hand, if clause order is not taken to befixed, then 5' can simply reorder (9):(12) John pushed Max.
Max fell.So, when 5" bclicves H lacks the relevant causal aw,5" can simply reorder, and let Na~'atiou do the rest.However, recalling the above discussion, in somecases a discourse structure that invokes Explanationis better than one that invokes Narration.
So simplyreordering events and letting the rule for Narrationachieve tile correct inferences won't work successfidlyin all cases.
Furthermore, recaning tile iliscussionabout states and causation above, it becomes appar.ent that this tactic of always letting Narration dotile work will lead to problenls with texts like (3)and (4).
(3) Max opened the dnor.
The roonl was pitcll (lark.
(4) Max switched off the light.
The room was pitchdark.q'lle reason is that, in the absence of the causal awwhich relates light switching to darkness, (4) will beanalysed exactly as (3), giving the wrong result.
Asolution would be to replace the state expression withall event expression:(4/) Max switched off the light.
The room wen~ pitchdark.4This is a pragmatic, rather than semantic rule; it'snot obvious tll~t this is tile best choice of representation.An obviolts alternative is to introduce further cluewords, and appropriate linguistic rules for reasoningabout them.
This means exploiting linguistic knowl-edge to overemne tile gaps in H's world knowledge.This tlelps explain tile observation that texts which(lescribc events ill reverse to temporal order, with-out marking the reverse, may bc quite rare.
It's easyenough 1o interpret such texts, when we have the all:l>ropriate WK.
lhlt if a considerate speaker or writerha~ reason to believe that some or all of her audi-ence lacks that WK, then she will either avoid suchdescriptive reversals, or mark them with thc type ofclues we have discussed.p is a fact in the Krl We now turn to the casewhere p is a fact about tim Kn which S knows andwhich S knows H lacks.
Suppose that p asserts acausal relation between two events (lilt does not rep-resent an excelltion to any (lefi;p~qible causal prefer-ences, and that S wishes to convey tile informationthat p. Then S can simply state p by exploitingH's available LK.
Clue words may not be needed.For example, if p is ttle fact that Max stood up andttlen John greeted him, S can tell H ttlis by uttering(8); Na*~'alion will make (8) reliable and precise forL/.
(8) Max stood Ul).
John greeted him.Similarly, if p is tile fact that Max opened tile door,and wtlile this was going on tile room was pitch dark,then (3) is reliable and precise for 11 :(3) Max opened tim door.
The room was pitch dark.But what if p asserts a causal relation betweentwo events that violates a dcfe~mible causal prefer-ence that H has?
Snppose p asserts that Max's falliumlediately preceded aolln's puslling hinl.
And sup-pose that S knows that H has tile defeasible causallaw mel~tioned above, but lacks p. Then neitller (9)nor (12) are reliable for //,  indicating that S cannotgenerate all atomic text, to assert p.(9) Max fell.
John pushed him.
(12) Jobn pushed Max.
lie fell.tf wouhl interpret (9) a~ an explanation; and (12)as a narrative, for nothing will eontliet with Narra-(inn in that case: tile causal preference for pushingscausing failings would simply reinforce the temporalstructure imposed by Narration.
The obvious optionis to nlove from (9) to 113); anotber option is to re-cruit tile pluperfi:et, ms ill 114); note that 115) is nota sohttion, since so can be read evidentially.
(13) Max fi~ll.
And then John pushed Ilint.
(14) J(?a~ pushed Max.
lie had fallen.
(15) Max fell.
So John pushed him.The seed it) utter (13) rather tllan (9) explains whyit c~Ltl be necessary to use and then, even tlloughth,'~ thll-stop is always available and, by Narration,has the default effect of temporal progression.
So,ill general, one might wish to paraphrase Joshi etall if a relation CtUl be defeasibly referred to hohlbetween two eventualities, and S' wants solnethingdilferent, it is essential to mark the desired relationwith sometlling strunger.ACRES DF.
COL1NG-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt'rl 1992 7 2 5 PROC.
OF COLING 92, NANq ES.
AUG. 23-28, 1992Case  2: 6: knows  p but  isn' t  sure  if HdoesIn general, S will have only partial knowledge aboutH's  beliefs.
This has its drawbacks.p is a defeas ib le  causa l  p re ference  Supposethat S isn't sure whether or not H believes the defea-sible causal law relating falling and pushing.
Thenthere are at least two ways in whicb S's model ofH's knowledge can be expanded to a complete state-ment of H 's  knowledge.
The first, B1, contains thecausal aw.
The second, B2, does not.
Now upposethat S wishes to convey the proposition that John'spushing Max caused Max to fall.
Then, if S assumesH's knowledge corresponds to Bl,  then H will finda reliable interpretation for (9).
(9) Max fell.
John pusbed him.On the other hand, if S assumes that H's knowl-edge corresponds to BT, then H will interpret (9) inan undesirable way, witt, the falling preceding thepushing; as we said before, Narration would win.Under this model, S isn't sure how H will interpret(9), because S doesn't know if H's  knowledge correosponds to B!
or B2.
Hence the ambiguity of(9) man-ifests itself to the generator S, if not to the hearer H,because S doesn't haw.
~sufficient information aboutH to predict wbich of the two alternative temporalstructures H will infer for (9).
This is slightly differ-ent to the previous case where S actually knows Hlacks the causal aw, making (9) unreliable.
"lb avoid uttering unreliable text, S will have toutter something other thmJ (9).
Indeed, it may bepossible for S not to worry about tim ambiguity of(9) at all, if some 'safe' strategy can bc tbund thatwould guide S's expansion of H 's  knowledge in a waythat wmdd ensure the generation of reliable text forH.
A plausible strategy for S's reasoning about Hwould he the following: if S isn't sure whether or notH knows p, then assume H doesn't know p. On theface of it this seen~s plausible.
But just how safe isit?We state it in terms of B+(H) and B- (H) :?
l fp  q B+(H) and p q B-(H),  assume p E B-(H)and generate-and-test under this assumption.But this won't work in general.
If S wants to con-vey a violation of the causal law p, but H actuallybelieves p, tben the strategy will suggest he use of(9), which will actually be unreliable for H.In fact, there is no safe strategy, save tim oucwhere S considers everal alternative xpansions ofH's  knowledge.
As a result, ambiguity of text willmanifest itself to S in certain cases, because of herpartial knowledge of H.  This is perhaps omewhatsurprising.
Nonmonotonic reasoning is designed as amedium for reasoning witb partial kuowledge.
Andyet here we have shown S cannot maintain textualreliability on the basis of a partial statement of H'sKB, even if nonmonotonic nference is exploited.p is a fact about  the KB: Ambigu i ty  Supposethat 5' wants to convey the information that Max'sfall immediately preceded John pushing \]tim, andsuppose S knows that H knows the causal aw, but Sdoesn't know for sure if H knows already that Maxfell before John pushed him.
Then, for similar rea-sons as those mentioned earlier, S isn't sure if (9) isreliable or not.
(9) Max fell.
John pushed him.
'17o be sure that text is reliable in this case, .q willagain have to exploit linguistic knowledge; for exam-pie, by uttering (13) instead of (9).
(13) Max fell and then John trashed him.Case  3: H as  adv isor ,  S as  pup i lSuppose that for a certain proposition p, p ?
B(S),p q B4"(H) and p f/ B-(H).
This corresponds toH potentially knowing more about p than S, butS not knowing what more.
That's pretty much theposition of the tutee in a tutorial dialogue, and theadvice-taker in an advisory dialogue.Case  4: S th inks  that  H is mis takenSuppose that p f\[ B(S) and p E B+(H).
Then Sdoesn't believe p even though site's aware H does.This implies that 5' thinks H is mistaken in believingp.The fact that p q B(S) and p E B+(tt) couldentail that a text that's reliable for S isn't for H.For example, suppose that H believes, by some weirdperception of social convention, that there is a defeatsible cansal preference that greetings cause standingups.
Suppose tbat S wants to describe the situationwhere Max stood up and then John greeted him (i.e.an exception to H's  causal preference).
Then this islike the exception case above concerning falling andpushing: (16) is reliable for S but not for H.(16) Max stood up.
John greeted him.Again, S could compensate for this by explicitlymarking the temporal relation.
Alternatively, thefact that p ?
B(S) and p E B+(H) could entail thata text that's unreliable for S is reliable for H.  Again,let p be the causal aw that says that greetings causestanding ups.
But this time suppose that S wantsto describe the situation where John's greeting Maxcaused him to stand up.
So this time, S wants todescribe an instance of the causal aw.
Then both(16) and (17) are reliable for H,  but only the latteris reliable for S.(17) John greeted Max.
tie stood up.
(16) is unreliable for S. Arguably, it wouldn't bein the set of possible linguistic realisatious, but onlyif this set is assumed to be characterised by whatS finds reliable.
But we bare no argument for thisassumption, and so we don't make it.ConclusionsIlere, we summarise the current state of the model,and briefly discuss two of its limitations.We admitted that that job of defeasible reasoningin generation could be very general; but ttlat we weregoing to look at it in the context of the InteractiveDefaults strategy.
ID applies to the candidate ut-terances (or tile space of utterances), and criticisesthe utterances (or the space), producing better ut-terances, or a smaller space.
The notion of logicalAc-rEs DE COLING-92, NArm.
;s, 23-28 Ao~r 1992 7 2 6 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28.
1992consequence supported by CE was used to make pre-cise how utterances are constrainted by m. Crucially,we used Defensible Modus Ponens and the PenguinPrinciple.
The grounds for criticism were the tempo.ral ramifications of the utterance; if it was incoherentfor / / ,  unreliable for H or dangerously ambiguous(for 5'), it was bad.One limitation of the model is that, although itpermits reasoning about the knowledge or beliefs ofinterlocutors, it neglects their goals and intentionsto do actions.
ID does not deal with the phenom-ena which motivate the work following Cohen andPerrault \[1979\] and Allen and Perrault \[1980\], (cf.Cohen, Morgan and Pollack \[1990\]).
In particular,ID does not let S take into account hose inferencesH will make in attempting to ascribe a plan to S.Hobbs et al\[1990:44-45\] argue that inferences lead-ing to plan recognition are less significant in inter-preting long written texts or monologues, llence,it might be argued that the generation of such dis-courses need not give H's  plan recognition particularweight.
Nonetheless, ID is incomplete, to the extentthat such inferences inflncncc discourse generation.Secondly, discourse structure and temporal struc-ture have become somewhat detached.
Sometimes,it's only the causal-temporal structure derivable frontthe candidate that is being criticized.
It may therefore be thought that the discourse structure is aaidle wheel as things stand, and should be either elim-inated (el.
Sibun \[1992\]), or bc trusted with a greatershare of the work, enriching the discourse with usefulclue words (cf.
Scott and Souza \[1990\]).
Our tenta-tive view is timt tire latter view is plausible, and any-way is closer to the idea of generation by defensiblereasoning, canvassed early on.The |D strategy examined here seems to involve alot of hard work generating simple eamlidates whichalmost always require debugging.
It would be prefer-able if we could do this work in advance, by defanlt.The alternative is explored in Lascaridcs and Ober-lander \[1992b\], in which we abduce discourse struc-tures from event structures, mid then interleave de-duction and abduction to derive linguistic realisa-tions.
But in turning to the more global approach,we should not lose sight of the fact that simpletexts are sometimes best.
(2) illustrates this point:the rhetorical relations inferred aren't syntacticallymarked, arid yet the text is more natural than (1),where the relations are marked.
As might be ex-pected, there seems to be a trade-off between thenaturalness of the output and its computational cost.Re ferencesAllen, J. F. & Perrault, C. R. \[1980\] Analyzing inten-tion in Dialogues.
Artificial Intelligence, 115, 143 178.Asher, N. & Morreau, M. \[1991\] Comnton Sense Entail-ment: A Modal Theory of Nomnouotonic Reasoning.In Proceedings o\] the 12th International Joint Con\]cr-ence on Artificial Intelligence, Sydney, Australia, Au-gust 1991.Bach, E. \[1986\] The algebra of events.
Linguistics antiPhilosophy, 9, 5-16.Cohen, P. It.
& Perrault, C. R. \[1979\] Elements of aPlan-Based Theory of Speech Acts.
Cognitive Science,3, 177-212.Cohen, P. R., Morgan, J.
& Pollack, M. E. \[1990\]Intentions in Communication.
Cambridge, MA: hilTpress.Gtice, H. P. \[1975\] Logic and Conversation.
In Cole, P.and Morgan, J. l,.
reds.)
Synlaz and Semantics, Vol-rune 3: Speech Acts, pp41-58.
New York: AcademicPress.ilinrichs, E. \[1086\] Temporal Anaphora in Discourses ofEnglish.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 9, 63--82.llobbs, J. it.
\[1985\] On the Coherence and Structure of1)iscourse.
Report OSL1-85 ,37, Center for the Studyof Language and htformation, Stanford, Ca., October,1985.Hobbs, 3., Stickel, M., Martin, P. & Edwards, D. \[1988\]Interpretation as Abduction.
In Proceedings of the261h Annual Meetin 9 of the Association \]or Compu?rational Linguistics, suNY, lluffMo, N.Y., June, 1988,pp95 103.flobbs, J., Sticket, M., Appelt, D. & Martin, P. \[1990\]Interpretation asAbduction.
Technical Note No.
499,sl~l lnternationM, Menlo Park, Ca., l)ecember 1990.llovy, E. \[1990\] Pragmatics and Natural Language Gen-eration.
Artificial Intelligence, 43, 153-197.Joshi, A., Webber, B.
& Weisehedel, R. M. \[19849\]Preventing I"Mse Inferences.
In Proceedings of thelOth h~ternatlonal Con.\[vrence on Computational Lin-guistics and the $2nd Annual Meeting o\] the Associa-tion .\[or Computational Linguistics, Stanford Univer-sity, Stanford, Ca., 2-6 July, 1984, pp134~138.Joshi, A., Webber, B.
& Weischedel, It.
\[1984b\]Default reasoning in interaction.
In Proceedings o.\[ theNon-Monotonic tleasoning Workshop, AAAI, N.Y., October, 1984, pp144 150.Joshi, A., Weblrer, B.
& Weischedel, R. \[1986\]Some Aspects of Default Re~oning in Interactive Dis-course, lteport MS-C1S-86-27, University of Pennsyl-vasia.Konolige, K. \[1991\] Abduction vs Closure in CausalTheories.
Forthcoming Research Note in A rtificial In.telligeacc.
Page references to ms.I,ascarides, A.
& Asher, N. \[1991\]Discourse Relations and Couuoon Sense Entailment.Submitted to Journal o\] Logic, Language and In.for-mation.
DYANA deliverable 2.5b, Centre for CognitiveScience, University of Edinburgh.Lasearides, A.
& Oberlander, J.
\[19929\] Temporal Co-herence anti Defeasible Knowledge.
Theoretical Lin-guistics, 18.Lascarides, A.
& Oberlander, J.
\[1992b\] AbducingTemporal Discourse.
In Dale, R. tlovy, E. RSsner,D.
and f<t,ck, O.
reds.)
Aspeets o\] Automated NaturalLanguage Generation.
Berlin: Springer-Verlag.Scott, l).
R. & Souza, C. S. \[19911\] Getting the MessageAcross in nsT-based Text Generation.
In It.
I)Me, C.Mellish and M. Zock reds.)
Current Research in Nat-oral Langua~le Generation.
London: Academic Press.Sibun, P. \[1992\] Generating Text without Trees.
To ap-pear in Computational Intelligence: Speciol Issue onNatural Language Generation, 8.ACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AO(n' 1992 7 2 7 I)ROC.
OF COLING-92, N^NTES, AUo.
23-28, 1992
