Recognizing Topics through the Use of Interaction StructuresTAKESHITA, AtsushiNTI" Human Interface Laboratories1-2356 Take Yokosuka-Shi Kanagawa 238-03 JapanE-mail: take@ntthli.ntt.jpAbstractA crucial problem in topic recognition is howto identify topic continuation.
Domain knowl-edge is generally indispensable for this.
How~ever, knowledge-based approaches are imprac-tical because not all domain knowledge neededfor the identification can be prepared in advance.This paper presents a topic recognition modelusing dialogue interaction structures.
The modelcan deal with both task-oriented and non-task-oriented ialogues in any language.
Topic con-tinuation is identified without domain knowl-edge because utterances of relevant opics areindicated by certain interaction structures.
Themodel avoids the weak point of knowledge-based approaches.
The model is validated bythe result of a topic recognition experiment.1 IntroductionAn aggregation of sentences having local co-herence is called a "discourse segment".
Sucha structure must be recognized to understanddiscourse including dialogues.
The structureconstrains candidates, for example, referents foranaphora resolution and plans for plan recogni-tion.
A topic is a kind of local coherence.
Seg-ments can be recognized in both task-orientedand non-task-oriented dialogues because mostdialogues have explicit topics.Recognized topics can also be used in a topic-oriented video retrieval snpport system.
Thesystem recognizes the topic structures of videosequences such as documentaries, and shows atopic list.
Topic nests are expressed by indenta-tion.
Users can survey the contents of a videolibrary, and play back sequences connected toan interesting topic.This paper describes how to recognize top-ics of both task-oriented and non-task-orienteddialogues without domain knowledge.
First, abasic topic recognition mechanism is discussed.Second, identifying topic continuation throughthe interaction structure is presented.
Finally,coverage of the interaction structure approach isdiscussed.2 A Topic Recognition Mechanism2.1 What Isa Topic?Topics are discourse referents hared by dia-logue participants.
They are things describedby noun phrases and events described by verbphrases.
However, these referents are topic can-didates not topics.
Those referents recognizedas topics by persons must be shared by partici-pants for a while; presented as topics again, orreferred to by pronouns or zero pronouns.A set of utterances having topic coherenceis called a "topic segment".
Topic structuresconsist of topic segments, topics in the segmentand relations between the segments: nests orconjunctions.
Post Office Dialogue in Fig.
1 canbe segmented into topic segments as follows:(A-1 B-1 (A-2 B-2 A-3 B-3 A-4 B-4)) (A-5).~gt~i~ (Mail delivery) is talked about fromutterance A-1 to B-4, N~ (express) from A-2 toB-4 and so on.There are various types of relations betweentopics.
In Post Office Dialogue in Fig.l, thetopic "NL~(express)" in utterance A-2 is asubtopic of the topic " J~9~idi~ (mail deliv-ery)" in A-1 because N~ is a subcategory of J(mail).
In another example where a certainperson Taro had moved to Kyoto recently, Kyotomay be a subtopic of Taro.
Non-task-orienteddialogues may include various topic relations.ACTE$ DE COLING-92, NAMES, 23-28 AOt3"r 1992 l 0 6 4 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUO.
23-28, 1992A-1 .~9~d~_ov ,~-~L?cwo 'v~?oI 'd like to ask you a question aboutmail delivery.B-1 tic,, ~5~oYes, six'.I want to send a letter by express.B-2 Ni${Od<.~-~ ?Special delivery?A-3 ~.Ntc_tJ)\]Ll~-c_.m~\]~ ~ 9-/ , ?Will the letter reach Kyoto bytomorrow?I think it will because the next lettercollection is at noon.Can I drop the letter into that mailbox?B-4 t.t V,oYes.The next question is about a postaldeposit.Figure 1: Post Of lice DialogueTOPIC > EMPATHY > subject> object > othersTOPIC is a noun phrase marked by the postpo-sitional particle " ~ (wa)".
In the sentence "~?.
(Tokyo) t.t ~e)  (Japanese) ~ (capital) -t:.-~- (is)", ~ (qbkyo) is TOPIC.
EMPATHY in-cludes the subject of mental verbs such as tg.~: (yorokobu, be glad), the source of ~< (iku,go), etc..
These verbs indicate the speaker'sperspective.
The subject markers include "/,~(gay', and the object markers" ~ (wo)".These candidates can be used for topic mark-ers.
The candidate priority of topics is the sameas that of focus; if TOPIC exists, it is a topic.If TOPIC does not exist but EMPATHY does,EMPATHY is a topic.Examples of Japanese clue words indicating atopic change am shown in Table 2.
Correspond-ing English clue words are also shown.Japanese pronunciation \]English \]-fgg--ec (mazu daiichi ni) first?~?- (tsugi ni) next-~ ~'~ c~ (sorekara) thenc 7~ -e (tokorode) nowThis variety of topic relations makes it difticultto identify topic relevance by domain knowl-edge prepared in advance.
Thus, the weak pointshould be avoided by a new approach.2.2 Topic Markers and Clue WordsThere are many topic marker expressions inJapanese.
For example, expressions in Table 1indicate topics explicitly.
English expressionssuch as "concerning .
.
. "
and "as regards .
.
.
"are similar to these expressions.Japanese xpression pronunciationTOPIC ~ l  g-c (ni kanshi te)TOPIC ~ow-c  (ni tsuite)TOPIC ~ v, 5 ?~t~t (to iu no wa)TOPIC ti (wa)"TOPIC" means an indicated topic.Table 1: topic marker expressionsFocus candidate priority in Japanese has beenproposed\]l\] \[41:Table 2: clue words2.3 A ~lbpicStackA stack is used to handle discourse segments inthe discourse model by BJ.Grosz\[2\].
A stackelement corresponds to a segment, and is calleda "focus space".
Discourse entities such asobjects are maintained in focus spaces.
Thetop stack element holds the most salient enti-ties.
Discourse segment structures are relatedto the intentional structure.
The "dominance"and "satisfaction precedence" relation betweenintentions decides pushing and popping of focusspaces.A "topic segment" is a discourse segment oflarge size, and "topic stack" is used to handletopics.
However, pushing and popping of topicscannot be determined by the intentional structurein ore approach because both topic-oriented andnon-topic-oriented dialogues are treated, and theintentional structure may be ill-formed.Instead of the intentional structure, only cluewords are allowed to determine the pushingAcrEs DE COL1NG-92.
NANTES, 23-28 Aotrr 1992 1 0 6 5 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NAN'rE.s, AUG. 23-28, 1992and popping.
For example, "~ ~g4--~: (first)"indicates pushing, and "0~:  (next)" popping.To recognize local topic structures, a simplemechanism is used.
Each element of a topicstack is treated as a stack called an "inner stack".Topics are pushed onto the inner stack.
If anexplicit opic indicated by makers in Table.1 isrecognized, non-explicit topics are popped fromthe stack.3 Ident i fy ing  Topic Continuation3.1 The Basic IdeaIn dialogues, topics can be changed naturally atsome utterances, but not at others.
For example,topics unfold naturally in the dialogue in Fig.
1.On the other hand, topic expansion is not naturalin the dialogue in Fig.
2.P-1 Will the letter reach Kyoto bytomorrow?Q-1 The next question is about a postaldeposit.Figure 2: unnatural topic expansion3.2 Topic Expansion and Speech ActsThe unnatural topic expansion in Fig.2 is re-lated to speech act purposes called illocutionarypoints.
Classification of the illocutionary pointswas proposed by J.R.Searle\[3\]: The "assertivepoint" tells how the world is, e.g.
to state andto predict.
The "commissive point" commitsthe speaker to doing something.
A promise isan example.
The "directive point" tries to havethe hearer do things.
Making a request is anexample.
The "declarative point" changes theworld by saying so, e.g, to declare and to name.The "expressive point" expresses the speaker'sfeeling, e.g.
to apologize.A hypothesis i built: ira current utterancefollows a directive utterance, the current opicis relevant to the topic in the directive utterance.This is called "topic forwarding".
The unnaturaltopic expansion i  Fig.2 can be explained by thishypothesis.
The topic of utterance Q-1 must berelevant o one topic of P-1 because the utter-ance P-1 is directive.
However, "0,:~: (next)"Speech Acts \[ Japanese Expressionsask ~-t;.~;o, (desu ka), ~T~(masu ka)request ~ I~ J'~,, (itadake masu ka)confirm ~ (ne)Table 3: Examples ofTopic-Binding Speech ActsI Speech Acts Japanese Expressionsinform ~"-,)- ~ ~" (desu ked0), ~'-e?~: (desu ga)acknowledge ~ w (hai), ~L  (ee)Table 4: Examples ofTopic-Nonbinding Speech Actsindicates a topic change.
This contradictioncauses unnatural topic expansion.Utterance pairs such as "requesting - accept-ing" and "asking - informing" will retain a topiceven if the pairs are nested.
For example, in thefollowing, R-1 - S-2 have the topic of "restau-rant" and S-I and R-2 have the topic of "moneyfor restaurant".R- 1 Do you know a good restaurant?S-1 How much money do you have?R-2 My salary is low.S-2 That reshaurant is cheap and good.However, pairs are not always so formed.
InPost Office Dialogue in Fig.l, utterance A-3performs two speech acts: informing-if and ask-ing.
Deeper dialogue understanding is neededfor correct pair identification.
Therefore, in thiswork, the pairs are not identified and a directiveutterance is regarded as forwarding a topic onlyto the next utterance.3.3 Utterance Types"Topic forwarding" classifies utterances into twotypes: topic-binding and topic-nonbinding ut-terances.
Topic-binding utterances have thedirective point but topic-nonbinding ones donot.
Topic-binding utterance speech acts in-clude to ask, to request and to confirm.
Topic-nonbinding utterance speech acts include to in-form and to acknowledge.In Japanese, the utterance type can be identi-fied by pattern matching with expressions suchas those shown in Table 3 and 4.ACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOUT 1992 1 0 6 6 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES.
AUO.
23-28.
19923.4 ~lbpic RecognitionA set of consecutive utterances in which thesame topics continue is called a "topic unit".A topic unit can be identitied by using "topicforwarding" instead of domain knowledge:1.
The current utterance belongs to the sametopic unit as tire previous utterance if theprevious utterance is topic-binding, or thereis no topic candidate indicated by a topicmarker ill tile current ntterance.2.
Otherwise, a new topic unit is created.The unit is used to validate candidate of topicsand topic changes, and has no clTect on tile topicand the inner stack.Noun phrases indicated by topic markers arcregarded as topic candidates, and utteranceswith clue words are detected as topic changecandidates.
Some of them arc recognized astopics.
Topic cmldidates are preserved in a"candidate list".
Recognized topics arc pushedonto the inner stack of the topic stack describedin 2.3.
Topics can be identitied by using tiretopic unit:a) A topic candidate indicated by a topicmarker such as those listed in Table 1 is ina-mediately recognized as a topic, and pushedonto the inner stack.
This is because suchmarkers indicate topics explicitly.
Thesemarkers are called "explicit topic markers",and the topics "explicit topics".b) A topic candidate indicated by other inarkcrssuch as"/A (ga)" and" ,?
(we)" is l/reservedin tire candidate list.
It is recognized as atopic only when tile candidate continues forn utterances.
If recognized as a topic, it isremoved from the candidate list, and pushedonto the inner stack.
The optimum value ofn is 4 according to the results of a manualtopic recognition experiment.c) lfa new topic unit is generated, the candidatelist is reset to an empty list.d) A topic change candidate is recognized as atopic change only when the candidate is inthe lirst utterance in a topic unit.Ira topic change is recognized, the candidatelist is reset to an empty list and the immrstack is pushed onto or popfmd flom thetopic stack according to clue words.This topic recognition algorithm can be usedfor any language because "topic forwarding" isnot language-specific.
Only dictionaries for thetopic markers, the clue words and ttle utterancetype identification am unique for each language.3.5 All Example of rlbpic RecognitionIn utterance Aol in Post Office Dialogue in Fig.
1,"~{~?.~t~ (yuubin no haitatsu, mail delivery)"is identified as a topic candidate by the topicmarker " m~v,c (ni tsuite)".
This candidate isimmediately recognized as a topic because of theexplicit marker.
Utterance A-1 and B-1 belongto the same topic trait because B-I has no topiccandidate.
The system state after processingt1-1 is the following.
Each element of the topicstack is a inner stack.
The right-most elementof thc topic and the inner stack is the top stackelement.CandidaZ~l)isZ = {}From utterance A-2 to B-3, a topic marker" ~ (we)" is detected in A~2 and B-3, and "~c (ni)" in A-3.
Therefore, "Ni~ (sokutatsu,express)" in A-2, "gg  (Kyoto)" in A-3 and"{~tfs (yuubin butsu, mail)" in B-3 are identified astopic candidates.
Ftuthermom, B-3 is detectedas a topic change candidate because of the clueword "?km (tsugi ni, next)".
A-2 generates anew topic unit because B-1 is topic-nonbindingand there is a topic candidate in A-2.
As arcsuh of the unit generation, the candidate listis reset.
Utterances from 11-2 to B-3 belong totire second topic unit.
This is because there isno topic candidate in B-2, and B-2 and A-3 aretopic-binding.
Therefore, the candidate "N i~"continues for 4 utterances in tire second topicunit and is recognized as a topic.
The topicchange candidate in B-3 is dismissed correctlybecause it is not in the first utterance in the topicunit.
The system state after processing B-3 is:(;andidat.cList = {~,N,~}.Utterance A~4 generates a new topic unit andthe candidate list is reset to an empty set.
InA-4, " ,~ x ~ (posuto, a mailbox)" is detected asa topic candidate.
B-4 belongs to tire unit.
Thestate of the inner stack does not change.ACTES DE COI.JNG-92, NANfES, 23-28 AOtn" 1992 l 06 7 PRec.
OF COLlNG-92, NAm'~S, AUG. 23-28, 1992In utterance A-5, a topic candidate "~1~.
(yuubin chokin, a postal deposit)" is identified.A-5 is detected as a topic change candidate be-cause of the clue word "0~tc (tsugini, next)".The change candidate is recognized as a topicchange correctly because A-5 is the first utter-ance of a new topic unit.
As a result, the innerstack is popped from the topic stack .
Thesystem state after processing A-5 is:TopicSt,,.~, : \[\[ \]J4 DiscussionThe results from a topic recognition experimentusing 207 utterances taken from dialogue tran-scripts is shown in Table 5.
Topics recognizedby our system are compared with the manuallyrecognized topics.Recognition and dismissal of topic changecandidates was peffomaed correctly.
This cor-rectness has the beneficial effect that wrongpopping of the topic stack and the reset of thecandidate list can be avoided.2 noun phrases were wrongly recognized astopics by the system.
These errors occurredwhen current topic T-1 returned to past topicT-2, and T-2 was not described explicitly at thattime.
Although a topic change has occurred, T-1is regarded as a current topic because no topiccandidate was presented.3 topics were not recognized as topics butwere wrongly dismissed.
This error occurredwhen the current topic was rephrased; "topicforwarding" fails in this case.
Synonyms suchas a fridge and a refrigerator are often used.Topic recognition accuracy is sufficient fora topic-oriented video retrieval support system.The recognition method is effective especiallyin dialogues with interaction structures uch as"ask ing-  asking" and "requesting - asking".The experimental results show that such struc-tures are included in many dialogues.
Mixed-initiative dialogues may lbrm the structures.To improve topic recognition accuracy, otherapproaches such as a knowledge-based approachcan be added.
For example, a synonym list and athesaurus would contribute to topic continuationidentification.Recognized Dismissedcorrectly I wrongly correctly I ~glyct,~.g~s II 21 0 II 21 0Topics I \[ explicit 15 3 -- --other 7 2 5 3Table 5: The Number of Recognized and DismissedCandidates5 ConclusionA topic recognition model has been proposed.The model identifies topic continuation by usingdialogue interaction structures instead of domainknowledge.
This is based on the hypothesis thata directive utterance repeats the same topic untilthe next utterance.
The model has been validatedby the results of a topic recognition experiment.References\[1\] S. E.Brennan, M. W.Friedman, andC.J.Pollard.
A centering approach to pro-nounss.
In 25th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,pages 155-162.
ACL, 1987.\[2\] B.J.Grosz and C. L.Sidner.
Attention, inten-tion and the structure of discourse.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 12(3):175-204, 1986.\[3\] J. R.Searle.
Expression and Meaning.
Cam-bridge University Press, 1979.\[4\] M. W.Friedman, M. Iida, and S. Cote.
Cen-tering in Japanese discourse.
In Papers pre-sented to the 13th International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics.
ACL, 1990.ACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt'rr 1992 I 0 6 8 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUO.
23-28, 1992
