Two-Level Morphology with CompositionLauri Karttunen, Ronald M. Kaplan, and Annie ZaenenXerox Palo Alto Research CenterCenter for the Study of language and InformationStanJbrd University1.
Limitations of "Kimmo" systemsThe advent of two-level morphology(Koskenniemi \[1\], Karttunen \[2\], Antworth\[3\], Ritchie et al \[4\]) has made it relativelyeasy to develop adequate morphological(or at least morphographical) descriptionsfor natural languages, clearly superior toearlier "cut-and-paste" approaches tomor-phology.
Most of the existing "Kimmo"systems developed within this paradigmconsist of?
linked lexicons stored as annotatedletter trees?
morphological information on the leafnodes of trees?
transducers that encode morphologicalalternationsAn analysis of an inflected word form isproduced by mapping the input form to asequence of lexical forms through thetransducers and by composing some out-put from the annotations on the leaf nodesof the lexical paths that were traversed.Comprehensive morphological descrip-tions of this type have been developed forseveral languages including Finnish,Swedish, Russian, English, Swahili, andArabic.
Although they have several goodfeatures, these Kimmo-systems also havesome limitations.
The ones we want to ad-dress in this paper are the following:(1) Lexical representations tend to bearbitrary.
Because it is difficult to writeand test two-level systems that mapbetween pairs of radically dissimilarforms, lexical representations i  existingtwo-level analyzers tend to stay close tothe surface forms.This is not a problem for morpho-logically simple languages like Englishbecause, for most words, inflected formsare very similar to the canonical dictionaryentry.
Except for a small number ofirregular verbs and nouns, it is notdifficult to create a two-level descriptionfor English in which lexical forms coincidewith the canonical citation forms found ina dictionary.However, current analyzers for mor-phologically more complex languages(Finnish and Russian, for example) are notas satisfying in this respect.
In thesesystems, lexical forms typically containdiacritic markers and special symbols;they are not real words in the language.For example, in Finnish the lexicalcounterpart of otin 'I took' might berendered as otTallln, where T, al, and I1are an arbitrary encoding of morpho-logical alternations that determine theallomorphs of the stem and the past tensemorpheme.
The canonical citation formottaa 'to take' is composed fromannotations on the leaf nodes of the lettertrees that are linked to match the input.
Itis not in any direct way related to thelexical form produced by the transducers.
(2) Morphological categories are notdirectly encoded as part of the lexicalform.
Instead of morphemes like Plural orPast, we typically see suffix strings like +s,and +ed, which do not by themselves indi-cate what morpheme they express.Different realizations of the same morpho-logical category are often represented asdifferent even on the lexical side.These characteristics lead to some un-desirable consequences:ACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AO~' 1992 1 4 1 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NA~rr~s, AU6.23-28, 1992I.
Generation is more cumbersome andless eff ic ient than analysis.
Because theinformation about morphological cate-gories is available only on the leaf nodes ofthe trees, many paths through the struc-ture may have to be tried before the rightone is found.
Some ways around thisproblem have been invented (Barton \[5\])but in practice their use is limited.II.
Annotated letter trees cannot bemin imized .
Although letter trees, anno-tated with morphological information, area kind of finite-state network, they cannotbe minimized because all the informationassociated with the leaf nodes would getlost when the branching tails are merged.The approach that we describe in thispaper overcomes these problems and al-lows a representation f morphological in-formation that maps more easily to therepresentation found in traditional lexi-cons.
On this basis we have constructedmorphological nalyzers for English andFrench (with Carol Neidle) at Xerox PARC.2.
Desideratalexical level happy +Comp +Adjsurface level happi er 0lexical level good +Comp +Adjsurface level bett er 0Figure 1The stems are presented as the lemmasfound in a dictionary, followed by mor-phological tags.
0 serves here as theepsilon symbol.
Because there is no needto have other annotations on the lexicontrees, problems I and II in Section 1 havebeen eliminated.
Lexical forms are alwayssequences ofmorphemes in their canonicalrepresentation.The only obstacle to this approach isthat the rules that constrain the surfacerealization of lexical forms become moredifficult o write when there is little or nosimilarity between the two levels of repre-sentation.
Designing such rules and under-standing their interactions i  a hard taskeven with the computational ssistanceprovided by a complete compiler for thetwo-level formalism (Karttunen et al \[6\]).We follow two simple principles:(1) Inflected forms of the same wordare mapped to the same canonical dictio-nary form.
This applies to both regularand irregular forms.
For example, in ourEnglish analyzer the surface forms happierand better are directly matched with thelexical forms happy and good, respectively,rather than some nonwords.As the distance between lexical and sur-face form increases, the mapping is easierto describe by allowing one or moreintermediate l vels of representation.
Thesolution we adopted combines the two-level rule formalism with the cascademodel of finite-state morphology dis-cussed by Kaplan & Kay \[7\].3.
Composition oftwo-level rules(2) Morphological categories are repre-sented as part of the lexical form.
Insteadof encoding morphological categories suchas Plural, Comparative, lstPerson as annota-tions on strings that realize them, we in-clude them directly in the lexical represen-tation.
Consequently, our two-level repre-sentation of happier and better are:Ac'rF.s DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Ao0r 1992 1 4 2Our formal understanding of finite-statemorpho logy  is based on thedemonstrations that both rewriting rulesand two-level rules denote regularrelations on strings (Kaplan \[9\]).
Thecorrespondence b tween regular elationsand finite-state transducers and theclosure properties of regular relationsprovide the computat iona l  andmathematical tools that our approachdepends on.
One of the earliest results offinite-state morphology is the observationPROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992that regular relations are closed undercomposition (Johnson \[8\], Kaplan&Kay \[7\],Kaplan \[9\]).
Consequently, a singletransducer can be constructed whosebehavior is exactly the same as a set oftransducers arranged in an orderedfeeding cascade:lexical string lexical string' Tcomposite intermediate string transducersurface string surface stringFigure 2This observation was originally madeabout transducers corresponding tophonological rewrite rules, but it appliesto regular relations or transducers nomatter how they are specified.
Althoughregular elations in general are not closedunder intersection, the subclass ofrelations denoted by standard two-levelrules is closed under this operation(Kaplan \[9\]).
Thus fstl and fst2 inFigure 2 may represent either a single two-level rule or the intersection of anynumber of rules.When the relationship between lexicaland surface forms is complex, the descrip-tive task of setting up rules that relate thetwo levels can be simplified by decompos-ing the complex relation to a series of lessopaque matches.
For efficient recognitionand generation, the resulting cascade canbe reduced to a single transducer.
Al-though it would be possible in principle toproduce the same single transducerdirectly from two-level rules, we havefound many cases in our descriptions ofEnglish and French where the compositionapproach is not only easier but alsoACRES DECOLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 ^ O',3T 1992linguistically more justified.
We describeone such case in detail.4.
French compound pluralsFrench plurals can be formed in a vari-ety of ways.
Some of the most commonpatterns are illustrated in Figure 3.We omit here the actual two-levelrules; what Figure 3 illustrates i  simplythe joint effect of several rules that con-strain the realization of the plural mor-pheme and the shape of the stern in regu-lar nouns.
Note that the constraints hereare local; the stem and the pluralmorpheme are in a fixed position withrespect to each other.message +masc +plmessage 0 s'n~ssage'nez +masc +plnez  0 0cheveu +masc +plcheveu 0 xtnose l'hair'cheval +masc +plchevau 0 x'horse'Figure 3In compound nouns and adjectives,several patterns are possible: (1) only thefirst part of the compound is marked forthe plural, (2) both are, (3) none are or (4)I 4 3 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTEs, AUG. 23-28, 1992only the last is.
The possible patterns andsome examples are given in Figure 4.The interesting cases are those in whichthe first part needs to be pluralized.
In asimple two-level system, the informationabout plural formation summarized inFigure 3 would have to be rewritten andadapted so that the rules could apply overa.
distance in the position just before thehyphen.No plural marking at allun je-ne-sais-quai 'a certain something'des je-ne-sais-quoiPlural marking on the first compoundun chef-d'oeuvre 'masterpiece'des chefs-d'oeuvrePlural marking on the second compoundune mini-jupe 'mini-skirt'des mini-jupesPlural marking on both compoundsune porte-fen~tre 'French window'des portes-fen~tresFigure 4The simple rules for regular plural for-mation illustrated in Figure 3 do not workfor first parts of compounds because theaffected elements are not in the same con-figuration relative to each other.
Althoughit is possible to modify the rules, the newversions would be rather complicated anddo not capture the simple fact that the plu-rals portes and fen~tres in portes-fen~tres inthemselves are regular, the only thing thatis special about the word is that pluralityis expressed in both parts of the com-pound.We avoid these complications by creat-ing a cascade of two-level rules in whichthe first stage is only concerned with theplurals of compounds.
It starts from a lexi-cal form in which the words are markedfor the pattern that they take and createsan intermediate level in which theinformation about number and gender isdistributed over the agreeing parts.
This isillustrated in Figure 5 for the masculineplural of social-ddmocrate, a word in whichboth parts get pluralized.social  0 0 -d~noc r ate+DP L+ma s c+plsocial+mas c+pl -d~mocrat  e 0 +masc+plFigure 5The effect of the first stage of rules is tocopy the morphological tags from the endof the compound to the middle wheneverthe +DPL (double plural) diacritic is pre-sent.The second layer of rules applies uni-formly to simple nouns as well as com-pounds.
In the case at hand, the two plu-rals in sociaux-ddmocrates are realized in theregular way, as shown in Figure 6.sociau 0 x -d~mocrate  0 sFigure 6By first intersecting the rules in each setand then composing the results in the wayshown in Figure 2, we end up with atransducer that eliminates the intermedi-ate level altogether and maps the lexicalrepresentation directly to the correct sur-face form, and vice versa.
Figure 7 illus-trates the final result.social  0 -d/~mocrate +DPL +masc +plIll illsociau x -d~mocrate  0 0 sFigure 7AcrEs DE COLING-92, NAgIES, 23-28 ^ot~r 1992 1 4 4 PRoc.
OF COLING-92, NANTES.
AUG. 23-28, 1992The representation in Figure 7 fulfillsthe desiderata l id out in Section 2 exceptthat it contains a special diacritic +DPL thatmarks the behavior of social-ddmocrate,with respect o plural formation.
In thenext section, we show how that diacriticcan be eliminated.5.
Composition with the lexiconBy choosing the canonical dictionaryform as the lexical form in our English andFrench analyzers and by including mor-phological categories directly as part ofthat representation, we have eliminatedthe need for additional annotations in thelexical structure that are common in exist-ing Kimmo systems.
We can treat he lettertree as a simple finite-state network inwhich all morphological information iscarried on the branches of the tree and noton the leaves.Taking this idea one step further, wemay think of the lexicon as a trivial firststage in a cascade of transducers that mapsbetween the lexical and the surface levels.The second stage is the two-level rule sys-tem.
In the case of our analyzers forEnglish and French, the rule system startsout with three levels but reduces to two byintersection and composition.
The finalstage is the composition of the rule systemwith the lexicon.This progression ofpushing the originalKaplan & Kay \[7\] program to its logicalconclusion isdepicted in Figure 8.Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3I L XIc?N I \[ L.XICON?
?
IFsw;surface string surface stri,~IIoI LEXICONTFST 2surface stringIOStage 4LEXICONoFST 1oFST 21surface stringFigure 8Figure 8 sketches the construction ofour morphological nalyzers for Englishand French.
Arrows labeled with & repre-sent intersection, arrows marked with ostand for composition.
(We have simpli-fied this picture slightly by omitting thecomposition of small bookkeeping rela-tions that are necessary to model properlythe interpretation f epsilon transitions intwo-level rules.
)Ac~s DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOOT 1992Stage 1 consists of two parallel two-level rule systems arranged in a cascade,as illustrated in Section 4.
In Stage 2, therules on each level have been intersectedto a single transducer.
Stage 3 shows thecomposition of the two-level rule systemsto a single transducer and Stage 4 repre-sents the final result: a transducer thatmaps sequences of canonical dictionaryforms and morphological categories to thecorresponding surface forms, and viceversa.
Although the conceptual picture is1 4 5 P~oc.
oF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992quite straightforward, the actual com-putations to produce the structures can beresource intensive, in some cases quiteimpractical.At the last stage, when the idiosyncraticbehavior of particular lexical items hasbeen taken into account in the compositionof the lexicon with the rule transducers, allmorphological diacritics such as the +DPLtag for French nouns with double pluralscan be el iminated because the rules thatdepend on them have been applied.
In fullcompliance with our desiderata in Section2, the resulting transducer maps, amongother  th ings,  social-ddmocrate+masc+pldirectly to sociaux-ddmocrates, and viceversa.6.
DiscussionFinite-state morphology tests on the ob-servation that ordinary morphological al-ternations involve regular elations.
This isthe basis of the early work by Kaplan andKay \[7\] on convert ing ordered rewriterules to a cascade of transducers and theparallel transducers of Koskenniemi's two-level model \[1\].
In recent times the two-level model has been more popular.
It hasturned out (Karttunen \[10\]) that paralleltwo-level constraints are even expressiveenough to account for phenomena thatrequire rule order ing in the classicalphonological rule formalism.
But there isno computational or theoretical reason toinsist on two-level descriptions.
Becausethe mathematical properties of rewrite andtwo-level rules are now well-understood(Kaplan \[9\], Ritchie \[11\]), we can composeany n-level description to just two levels.In our work on English and French mor-phology we came across many instances inwhich the introduction of an extra level isboth practical and linguistically motivated.The case of French compound plurals is atypical example.Our success in composing the rule sys-tem with the lexicon (Stage 4 in Figure 8) isdue to a number of fortunate characteris-tics that morphological alternations andlexicons of natural anguages eem to haveeven though they are not necessary oreven probable from a formal point of view.We at least were surprised by some of ourresults.
The most important  of thesedelightful discoveries are:(1) Small case studies can be mis-leading.
The composition of a rule trans-ducer against a lexicon containing a hand-ful of words is so much larger than theinput lexicon that one is tempted to con-clude that the method can never succeedon a large scale.
However,  this b lowupseems not to occur when the lexicon isalready large.
(2) Intersections and compositions ofrule transducers tend to be large, but notnearly as large as they might be.
Theresult of intersecting a few dozen two-level rules may have thousands or tens ofthousands of states, but not trillions as theworst case scenario predicts.
Many rulestend to apply either in quite similar or inquite different environments.
The finitestate machinery can represent such pat-terns without multiplying state sets.
(3) Composit ion with the lexiconsreduces the complexity of rule inter-actions.
It might  turn out that thecomposit ion of a large lexicon with aneven larger rule transducer is bigger thaneither one of the input structures.
Inreality, the size of the result seems to besomewhere  in the middle.
The rulesconstrain the realization of all possiblelexical forms.
In the composition, theirscope is restricted to just the forms thatactually exist in the language.
It turns outthat this restriction makes the  resultsmaller ather than larger even though thelexicon itself is a very irregular collectionof forms.The fact that it is possible to construct alexical transducer for the whole languageraises interesting theoretical issues.
In lin-guistics it is commonly assumed that lexi-AcrEs BE COLING-92, NANTES, 23.28 AOUT 1992 1 4 6 PROC.
OF COLING-92, N^NTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992cal entries and the rules for realizing themexist independently from one another.That assumption is, of course, also thestarting point of the work that we are re-porting about in this paper.
The initialseparation between the lexicon and therules is useful in constructing a system forword recognition and generation.
Therules are, in a sense, a decomposition f avery complex mapping between lexicaland surface forms to a set of simpler ela-tions that we can comprehend and ma-nipulate.
But in the construction of the fi-nal result individual rules and the distinctlexicon disappear.
The rules play no role atall in the actual generation and recognitionprocess.
They are needed only for the pur-pose of enlarging the lexicon, althoughother acquisition methods can be envi-sioned.
The rules are true generalizationsabout the two-level exicon constructedwith them but they are not a part of it.In linguistics the psychological reality ofrules is often taken to be established by theobservation that a simple listing of allforms would be not only implausible buteven impossible, given that the brain musthave some storage limitations.
The generalorganization of the system like the one wehave described suggests that the role ofrules might be quite different.
Instead ofbeing essential for the production andcomprehension f speech, the rules thatlinguists are trying to discover may be--ifthey exist in the mind at all--only sec-ondary reflections on the generalizationsthat can be encoded in the finite-state l xi-cal structure itself.References\[11 Koskenniemi, K. Two-level Morphol-ogy.
A General Computational Model forWord-Form Recognition and Production.Department of General Linguistics.University of Helsinki.
1983.\[21 Karttunen, L. K1MMO: a GeneralMorphological Processor.
Texas Lin-guistics Forum, 22:217-228.
1983.\[3\] Antworth, E. L. PC-KIMMO: a two-levelprocessor for morphological analysis.Occasional Publications in AcademicComputing No.
16, Summer Instituteof Linguistics, Dallas, Texas.
1990.\[4\] Ritchie, G. D., G. J. Russell, A. W.Black, S. G. Pulman.
ComputationalMorphology.
Practical Mechanisms forthe English Lexicon.
The MIT Press,Cambridge, MA.
1991\[5\] Barton, E., R. Berwick, E. Ristad.Computational Complexity and NaturalLanguage.
The MIT Press, CambridgeMA.
1987.\[6\]\[7\]\[81\[91\[10\]Karttunen, L., K. Koskenniemi, andR.
M. Kaplan.
A Compiler for Two-level Phonological Rules.
In Dal-rymple, M. et al Tools for Morphologi-cal Analysis.
Center for the Study ofLanguage and Information.
StanfordUniversity.
Palo Alto.
1987.Kaplan, R. M. and M. Kay.
Phonolog-ical rules and finite~state transducers\[Abstract\].
Linguistic Society of Amer-ica Meeting Handbook.
Fifty-sixth An-nual Meeting, December 27-30, 1981.New York.Johnson, C. Douglas.
Formal Aspectsof Phonological Description.
Mouton.The Hague.
1972.Kaplan, R. M. Regular models ofphonological rule systems.
AlveyWorkshop on Parsing and PatternRecognition.
Oxford University,April 1988.Karttunen, Lauri.
Finite-State Con-straints.
In the Proceedings of the Inter-national Conference on Current Issues inComputational Linguistics, June 10-14,AcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES.
23-28 AO~I' 1992 1 4 7 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 19921991.
Universiti Sains Malaysia, Pe-nang, Malaysia.
1991.\[11\] Ritchie, Graeme D. Languages Gen-erated by Two-level MorphologicalRules.
Research Paper 496.
Depart-ment of Artificial intelligence, Uni-versity of Edinburgh, 1990.
To appearin Computational Linguistics.R6sum6Cet article d6crit une nouvelleutilisation des transducteurs reguliers enanalyse morphologique.
Les syst6mesKimmo standard se composent d'unlexique en forme d'arborescence decaract6res (trie) avec des sommets finalsannot6s d'information morphologique etun ensemble de transducteurs quitranscrivent les representations lexicalesen formes fl6chies.
Bienque ces syst~messoient sup6rieurs aux techniques an-t6rieures d'analyse morphologique "cut-and-paste", ils ont un certain hombre ded6savantages: les formes lexicales sontsouvent arbitraires et diff6rentes deslemmes d'un dictionnaire normal; l'ana-lyse morphologique n'est pas encod6edirectement dans la forme lexicale.
Ler6sultat est que la synth~se st souventplus ardue que i'analyse t que les struc-tures ne sont pas optimales.Les analyseurs morphologiques con-struits a Xerox-PARC pour le franqais etl'anglais se basent sur deux principlessimples: 1. les formes fl6chies d'un m6memot se basent sur un m6me lemme; 2. lescat6gories morphologiques font partieint6grante de la forme lexicale.
Ainsi lesformes lexicales sont toujours dess6quences de morphemes.
Il est difficiled'achever ces deux r6sultats d6sirablesdans le cadre d'une description classique/~deux niveaux parce que la distance ntreles formes lexicales et les formes de surfaceest longue t tr6s difficile a d6crire avec unseul ensemble de r6gles phonologiquesdeux niveaux.I1 est possible de r6soudre cesprobl6mes en exploitant d'une faqon plusapprofondie l s principes de la phonologiedeux niveaux.
En guise d'exemple,l'article d6crit une cascade de r~glesdeux niveaux qui permet une descriptionsimple du pluriel des mots compos6s enfranqais.
La premi6re serie de r6gles insuredes annotations de nombre et de genreapr6s chaque 61ement de mots /~ plurieldouble (social-ddmocrate ~ sociaux-ddmo-crates), la s6conde s6rie de ri~glesd6termine la r6alisation du nombre t dugenre r6quise par les racines.Les caract6ristiques math6matiques destransducteurs r6guliers ont bien connues.Elles permettent la combinaison de trans-ducteurs correspondant a des syst6mes der6gles a deux niveaux par composition etpar intersection.
Ainsi il est possible der6duire un syst~me ~niveaux multiplesun seul transducteur qui contr61e simul-tan6ment toutes les alternances morpho-logiques d'un langue.
Vu que dans leslexiques anglais et franqais d6velopp6sXerox toute l'information morphologiqueest cod6e directement avec le lemme, il estpossible d'aller plus loin et de composer lelexique entier avec les r6gles.
Le trans-ducteur r6sultant, un lexique a deuxniveaux, transcrit les formes lexicalesdirectement en formes de surface et viceversa.
Les r~gles ne sont utilis6es que dansla phase de construction.
L'analyse t lasynth~se ne font usage que du trans-ducteur lexical r6sultant.ACRES 91i COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOIYr 1992 1 4 8 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23~28, 1992
