A Chinese Corpus for Linguistic ResearchChu-Ren Huanghschuren @twims886.bitnetInstitute of History and PhilologyAcademia SinicaKch-j iann Chenkchcn@iis,sinica.edu.twInstitute of ln lormat ion ScienceAcademia SinicaThis is a project note on the first stage of the con-struction of a comprehensive corpus of both Modernand Classical Chinese.
The corpus is built with the dualaim of serving as the central database for Chinese lan-guage processing and for supporting iJl~lepth linguisticresearch in Mandarin Chinese.I BackgroundThe project being reported on is a sub-project of theon-going research of the CKIP (Chinese KnowledgeInformation Processing) Group.
This group wasfounded by Hsieh Ching-chun in 1986 and is currentlydirected by Keh- jiann Chen and Chu-Ren Huang(Chang et al 1989, Hsieh et al 1989, Chen et al 1991).The CKIP research is divided into three sub-projectsaccording to their goals: 1) An On-line Lexicon forNLP, 2) A Corpus, and 3) A Parser.
The suit-projectsare designed to create a self-sufficient and mutualsupporting environment for Chinese NLI: The corpuswill be the database supporting the electronic lexicon,while the lexicon will be the basic reterence for auto-matically tagging the corpus.
Moreover, both the cor-pus and the lexicon will support he parser.
Our parseradopts the unification-based formalism of ICG (infor-mation-based Case Grammar, Chen and Huang 199{)),which encodes all grammatical information on eachlexical entry.
At this point in time, the lexicon consistsof a fully automated earlier version with limited gram-matical information and an updated version with com-plete grammatical version for parsing, qtaere are morethan 40 thousand entries in the completed electronicdictionary, which is available on-line in "lttiwan and al-lows basic pattern-matching searches.
There is also aPC version with reduced search capacity available fromthe Industrial ' ~echnology Research Institute, the pri-mary funding agency of this pilot dictionary project.The updated version ow contains roughly 30 thousandentries with complete grammatical information andanother60 thousand with basic grammatical categories.Manipulation of lexical information such as addition ofentries and specification ofdetailed grammatical infor-mation with respect to each attribute ismaintained on-line (Jian and Chen 1991).
The completed 90 thousandword lexicon will be our core lexicon fl)r pars- ing.
Thehierarchical rrangement will enable us to efficientlyadd new entries and create special lexicons for sub~lo-mains.Many modules of the parser arc now under con-struction and some of them have been completed, suchas a analyzer-generator f r quantifier-measure com-pouods (Mo et al 1901) and a look-up segmentationprogram (Chen and IAu 1992).
Both the compoundanalyzer-generator and the segmentation programperform well.
The recognition rate fl)r the segmenta-tion program, excluding proper names and derivedwords, is 99.77%.
Since neither proper names nor wordbreaks are marked in the writing system, they will haveto be dealt with separate modules using both morpho-logical and heuristic information.
The analyzer-gener-ator has the perfect recognition rate of 100% while al-lowing over-generation a d ambiguity, which also of-ten involve proper names and derived words.The corpus portion of the project is mainly fundedthrough a grant from the Chiang Ching-kuo Founda-tion lot International Scholarly Exchanges to Acade-mia Sinica and the University of London, and is sup-ported by matching funds from Academia Sinica.
I~aulThompson is the Co-Principle hwestigator attim Uni-versity of London.
The COBUIt,D project of the Uni-versity of Birmingham also offers technical consulta-tion.
Of the 12 linguists working full time in the CKIPgroup, five are assigned to the corpus project in addi-tion to three programmers.II.
Sources and Size of the CorpusA strategical decision was made early in our projectto build separate corpora for both classical and modernChinese.
This is not only because the same lexical com-puting techniques can be used lor both modern andclassical Chinese (data are represented as Chinesecharacters), but also because we think it will be interest-ing to compare the result of an open aud artificially bal-anced corpus (the modern one) with a completed butrandomly balanced corpus (the classical one).
In addi-tion, the impact on linguistic research will probably bemore immediate and obvious in diachronical studiesAcrEs DE COLING-92.
NAN~IdS, 23-28 AOt~,r 1992 1 2 I 4 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992titan in synchronical studies.
Hence, tile classical cot'-pus is defined in terms of time (roughly all existing textwritten before 0 B.C.)
and the modmn corpus is definedby size (7 -l(I million words tagged text in two years).This also sct the direction of future development: heclassical corpora will develop clironologically throughthe time while the modcrn corpora will cxpand both insize and in domain--specific corl~)ra.The following texts are acquired ill the first stage:l) Modern ChineseA.
10 million characters of texts (word breaks are m)tused in Chinese writing systems, but the average wordlength is a little nlore than two characters) from threemonths of the l.iberal Thnes, a daily newspaper.
B.
10million characters fi'om the China Tiates group.Agreement was reached ha October, 1991 with thc Chi-na Times group, one of the two ucwspaper giants in'lhi-wall, to provide daily on-l ine text to our project.
Thuswe will have a dependable and unlimited source of data(up to one million characters a day).
The group pu-.blishes three newspapers, tleveral nlagazines, and has aseparate book-publishing subsidiary.
C. Al~mt onemillion words of data previously input by the CKIPproject.
This includes 10 articles front a magazine andexplanatkm text ft~la a dictionary.
D. 30 thoummdwords of tran.~libed spoken text.
This section will beinput in ltF)2.Newspapers are tile nlainstay of our data source furthe otwious reason that the newspaper texts are online.
But it is also a (xmvenient text containing manyvmieties of writing, including spoken couver~tion (in~terviews), commentaries, translations (foreign dis-patches), and all genres of literary styles (Chinesenewspapers arc different from the Westeln ones in hav-ing daily literature suppleinentaries, and are the mostimportant venue for literary publications), llowevev,because of difficul-- tics ill converting different charac-tcr-ca~ling and mark-up systems, we can only incorpo-rate news from China Tintes to otn corpus o far.
t i thertypes of texts should be available by fall 1092.2) The Classical CorpnsRoughly three million characters of Chinese writtenprose have smvived frmn the years before Christ wasborn (i.e.
from all tile periods up to the Western HartDynasty).
A corpus of roughly 1.5 million characters ofthe text is now available in machine readable formsfrom a previous prolect in Academia Sinica, the re-maining 1.5 million characters arc now being keyed inand will be on-l ine by mid-1992.111.
Funct ions  and  App l i ca t ionsIt is out" hmg term goals for the Corpus to have theautomatic dictionary compiling abilities, fashioned af-tcr COBUILI) (Sinclair 1987, iN)l), adapted for bothparsing and hard- copy publishing.
In the flirt stage,however, we concentrate on developing tools for lin-guistic research.
We will describe the search functionsthat we have developed so far.
Most of the functionsare character-based now and call be upgraded to word-based once we incorporate our tagger and word seg-mentation aKlule.The search utility in our corpus is basically a KWIC(key wtlrd-in~m-- text) search based on Chinese char-acters.
Our search progranl allows the linguists to spec-ify both the size of right-and left-hallO side cxmtextsh(lwn as the search resnlt.
There is also a randomizerto chm)se a more manageable size of data if the searchresult is too big (more than a thou- sand citations).
Theordering of data is done in the traditional way in termsof nu tubers of strokes in tile character inthe immediatecontext.
This is not the ideal methtxl but may be thebest available before we can deveh)p a system which isln)ttt linguistically and hem-istically more ~phisticated.A romanizatiml based articling s~ystem would be evenless desirable fl)r the lack of unifl~rm (and familiar) ro-manization system ill 'lliiwan and h~r the failure to dis-amhiguiate homonyms.In addition to the basic s(~irell procedures, the fol-lowing customized search commands are added toserve tile need of linguistic research.1) # < kw > # : a context where a key word is both pre-ceded and followed by the mime word.2) AA : leduplicatiml (one character)3) AllAll : reduplicatiml (two characters)4) < kwl > * < kw2 > : crax~;urreuces of two key wordsin a (possibly) di~ontinuous context.5) < kwl >/I < kw2 > : context where a key word (kw2)is 'left- disassociatcd' fronl another key word (kwl), i.e.where the sccnnd key word does not (recur in the left-context of the first key word.6) < kwl >/r  < kw2 > : context where a key word (kw2)is 'right-disassociated' from another key word (kwl),i.e.
where tile secured key word does not occur in theright-context of the first key word.t ;ommands 1)-3) are helpful tools in studying mor-phological rules and identifying morphological con-stmctions for Chinese.
Since Chinese writing systemsdo not include word-breaks, and since no lexicon canever offer a complete list of words, word segmentatkmis non-trivial in Chinese Language Processing (Chertand Liu 1992).
Identifying and util~ing morphologicalinformation is therefore ssential Ix)th in lexical com-puting and in natural anguage processing.ACnT.S Dr. COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Ao(rr 1992 1 2 1 5 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NAN-rES, AUG. 23-28, 1992Command 4) is a handy tool to discover cooccur-rence restrictions and their semantic onsequences.Commands 5) and 6) are used to eliminate ambiguityand to cut down the size of search results.It can be noted that since our tagger is not runningyet and since the Chinese running text seldom defines asentence by a period (a whole paragraph often containsonly one period and many commas), the above com-mands use number of characters ather than sentencemarkers to delimit search domains.Concordance programs are also being developed forour project.
The current version runs with our classicalcorpus.
It is able to show both the text source of eachconcordance item as well as page numbers from theprinted version for easy reference.
This is originally de-veloped on the HP workstation, the machine we nowuse, but a version that runs on IBM PC 486 with eitherSUN Unix or CCL Unix is also available now.Another research tool that we developed eal withfrequency counts of characters and words and statisticalpackages to compare linguistics and other textual fea-tures of the corpora.
Like many other modules of ourproject, this module has been developed and com-pleted mdependently.
It has been tested on the un-tagged on-l ine classical Chinese database of the "l~,en-ty-five Dynastic Histories (Hsieh 1991).
This module isready to be incorporated into the system.IV.
Accomplishments and Future DevelopmentsIn this first stage of the development of a Chinesecorpus for NLP and for linguistic research, we haveachieved the primary goals of acquiring the core textdata, and establishing a mutual-supporting environ-ment between the lexical computing research on thecorpus and the computational linguistics research onNLE Our  systems are developed on HP workstationsunder Unix.
The system should be portable to any Unixmachine with compatible Chinese solution.
For in-stance, we are porting each of our modules to a IBM PC486 running Unix for the use of our collaborator inLon-don.In this preliminary stage, the most encouraging signis that our human linguists have established productiveinteraction with the corpus.
Human expertise helpedto design search utilities pertinent to linguistic researchand corpora provided both a convenient source of lin-guistic facts and a solid basis for deducing useful gener-alizations.
With the basic KWIC search utilities, theCKIP project has finished several linguistic studies withthe help of the corpus.
Take Mo et al (1991) for exam-pie, the quantifier-measure rule that our analyzer-generator uses is based on generalizations extractedfrom the corpus, and the program itsetf is tested ontexts randomly selected from the corpus.
Other lin-guistic works based on the corpus include Hong, Huangand Chen (1991) on morphological rules fl)r Chinese,and Mo, Huang and Chen on serial verb construction iChinese (1991).
This corpus is currently used by theCKIP project in their ac- counts of A -not -A  questions,of resultative compounding, of nominalization, and ofvarious reduplications.Incorporation of an automatic tagger and extractionof grammatical information from the tagged corpora isthe most important immediate future goals of this proj-ect.
This, of course, depends crucially on a tagging sys-tem with theoretically well-structured attributes.
A da-tabase for attributes i being developed with the 1N-FORMIX software.
And we will folh)w the TEl  guide-lines (Sperber-McQueen a d Burnard 1990) wheneverpossible.
Our word segmentation program now doublesas a category-tagger.
But this can only be viewed as aresearch aid for the linguists to detect categorical mbi-guities and unlisted words.
We also expect he on-gooing linguistic research to identify more search functionsand refine the existing utilities.
Direct extraction ofdictionaries and grammars hould I)c feasible in fiveyears.Aeknowlegements:Research of this project was partially funded by theChiang Ching-kuo Foundation for International Schol-arly Exchanges.
The first author wants to express hisgratitude to the Center for the Study of Language andInformation, Stanford University for thc surport he re-ceived when he visited there, during which a draft ofthis note was completed.
Responsibility of any errorsremain ours alone.BibliographyChang, LL .
and CKIE 1989.
The Categorical Analysisof Mandarin Chinese (Revised edition, in Chinese).Taipei: Academia Sinica.Chen, K.-J.
and CKIE 1991.
'll le Chinese Knowledgeand Information Project and Chinese Electronic Dic-tionary (in Chinese).
Paper presented at the Joint Chi-nese-Japan Symposium on Information Processing.Taipei.Chen, K.-J.
and C.-R. Huang.
1990.
Information-based Case Grammar.
COLING-90.
Vol.
ll.
54-59.Garside, R., G. Leech, and G. Sampson.
Eds.
1987.The Computational Analysis of English.
London:Longman.ACHES DE COLING-92, NANTEs, 23-28 AO~'T 1992 1 2 1 6 I)ROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES, AuG. 23-28, 1992Hsieh, C.-C. 1991.
Statistics of the "li~xt of the qwenty-Five Dynastic Histories.
Pal~er presented at ROCL-ING IV.Jian, L .
-E  and K.-\].
Chert.
1990.
The Hierarchical Re-presentation and Management of Lexical Information.Proceedings of the Third R.O.C.
Computational Lin-guistics Conference (ROCLING III).
pp.
295-310.Chert, K.-J.
and S.-H. Liu.
1992.
Word Identificationfor Mandarin Chinese Sentences.
"lt~ be presented atCOLING-92.Hong, W.M., C.-R. Huang, and K .q .
(;hen.
~991.
TheMorphological Rules of Chinese Derived Words.
~1~ bepresented at the 1991 International Conference on"lizaching Chinese as a Second Language.
Dec. 1~)l.'l~tipei.Mo, R. J., Y.-R. Yang, K.--J. Chen, and C.-R. Huang.1991.
A Analyzer-Generator for Mandarin ChineseQuantifier-Measure Coml~unds.
Proceedings ofROCLING IV.Mo, R. J., C.-R. Huang, and K.-J.
Chert.
1991.
SerialVerb Constructions in Mandarin Chinese - -  Their Def-inition and Control Relations.
'lh he presented at the1991 International Conference on 'l~aching Chinese asa Second Language.
Dec. 1091.
"laipei.Sinclair, J. M. t987.
Ed.
L(~king Up -All account ofthe COBUILI)  Project in Lexical Computing, London:Collins.Sinclah', J. M. 199l.
Corpus, Concordance, Coll~v~a-tion.
Oxford: Oxford Unwersity Press.Sperberg-McQuecn, C. M. and 1,.
Burnard.
1990.Giudclines for" the Enemy, ling and Interchange of Ma-chine-Readable ' ~:xts.
(I'EI 1'1).
ACI I -ACL-ALI  ,('.AcrEs DE COLING-92, NANII.
;S, 23-28 AO(JT 1992 1 2 l 7 PRO(:.
OF COLING-92, NANTES.
AtJ.
23-28, 1992
