CONCEPT-ORIENTED PARSING OF DEFINITIONSWILLY MARTINFree University of AmsterdamThe Netherlands0.
IntroductionComputational lexicology/lexicographycurrently favours issues related to the~ ,  the reoresentation and theapplication of iexical knowledge functioningwithin a NLP-environment.
Within the firstdomain, that of acquisition, one finds e.g.
suchtopics as the extraction of information fromcorpora and machine readable dictionaries(MRD's).
This paper - which is the result of aproject in which, next to the author, alsoM.Reedijk, E.ten Pas and L.Willekensparticipated -, falls within this first domain asit will explicitly deal with the extraction of(lexicai) knowledge from (dictionary)definitions.
However, it will be evident hatacquisition without a representationalframework does not make (much) sense.Furthermore we will also indicate how to usethe knowledge obtained.1.
Definitions and Meaning Typ?~Our starting-point is the fact that words, withregard to their meaning, can be classified intomeaning _t~zpes.
Words can have meanings thatare predominantly conceptual, collocational,grammatical, figurative, connotative, stylisticand contextual/discursive.
A word such as thegeological term magma typically has aconceptual meaning only, another one such asbloody (as in 'you bloody fool') typicallycombines collocational meaning (intensification)with stylistic meaning aspects (very informal),whereas the same word, bloody, e.g.
in asentence like 'I got my bloody foot caught inthe bloody chair' (example taken fromLDOCE) mainly gets a discursive, acontextual, meaning (functioning as an(emotional) stopword).
Different kinds oflexical meaning types require differentdescriptive treatments.
So e.g.
terms, showing'par excellence' conceptual meaning, willrequire first and foremost conceptual meaningdescriptions i.e.
concept-oriented definitions.
Inwhat follows then we will concentrate on termsand their meaning as expressed in definitions,the typical locus tbr conceptual meaninginformation.
Accordingly the parser we willpresent will be concept-oriented.2.
Conceot-oriented oarsim, of termsThe parser under discussion is set up to analyzedefinitions of medical terms in En~,lish.
Assuch it is but one of the components of asystem which at the moment consists of apreprocessor, a segmentor, a lexicon, a set ofconceptual relations and a parser proper.
Inorder to better understand the approach underdiscussion we willfirst give a general overview of theoverall algorithmthereafter globally comment upon thoseaspects which are most relevant from acomputational linguistic point-of-view(as it is impossible, given the amount ofACTES DE COLING-92.
NANTES, 23-28 AOt3"r 1992 9 g g Prtoc.
OF COLING-92.
NArCrES, AUG. 23-28.
1992space and time, to give a full anddetailed picture of the whole project).2.1 Overall al~,orithmThe basic algorithm can be roughlycharacterized as consisting of the followingsteps:a. read definitionb.
segment definitionc.
look for head of definitiond.
check cluese.
look for subhead(s) of definitionf.
fill frame subhead(s) taking into account(checks on)coordinationcluespostmodificationg.
fill flame headh.
write sense frameA typical input reads like this:"rheumatoid "arthritis: a chronic disease of themusculo-skeletal system, characterized byinflammation and swelling of the joints, muscleweakness, and fatigue" (taken from CollinsDictionary of the English Language 19862 )The corresponding output looks likerheumatoid arthritis:\[disease gaffects musc_skel_syst\]\[disease has_qual chronic\]\[disease hassymptom fatigue\]\[disease has_symptom weaknessl\[disease has_symptom inflammationl\[disease hassymptom swellinglIweakness - gaffects musclellswelling gaffects jointsllinflammation g_affects joints\]In what tbllows we will try to make clear themain features (a system leading to) such aresult implies.2.2 Basic features2,2,1 Input soecificationsUp till now we have only dealt with definitionsfor ~lhS.C,~Cdi (terms for nosoiogy concepts).These definitions can be taken from all kinds ofsources, e.g.
from termbanks or from(terminological) dictionaries.
The examplegiven above should make clear that we workwith analytical definitions exhibiting all kindsof difficulties in both lexis and ~ (such asstructural ambiguities cf.
'inflammation' vs.'inflammation of the joints').2,2,2 Lcmmatizer-tagger as Front-endIt goes without ,saying that a lemmatizer-taggeris a basic requirement for the efficientoperation of the parser.
This way text words( :  word forms occurring in the definitionaltext) can be linked up with the items occurringin the lexicon (see below).
For that purpose weuse an adapted version of Dilemma (see Martine.a.
1988 and Paulussen-Martin 1992).2.2.3 Minimal syntaxAfter having been lemmatized and tagged, thedefinition gets ,split up into smaller parts(segments) by the Ee.g!llgaI~.
This module is aminimal syntactic processor which, on the basisof categorial information (such as Booleanvalues for NP compatibility and NPdelimitation), delimits word groups in the inputstring.
Unlike other approaches (such asAlshawi 1989) which make use of syntacticpattern matching techniques, yntax is kept toa strict minimum as one of our claims is thatACRES DE COL1NG-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOOT 1992 9 8 9 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTEs, AUG. 23-28.
1992much of what is done (by others) syntactically,can be left out when one disposes of morepowerful, i.c.
conceptual, knowledge.
As aresult our input definition ow looks as follows( \[ indicating delimiters, \[ \[ indicatingboundaries):a chronic disease l of the musculo-skeletalsystem I , (characterized) I by inflammation Iand swelling I of the joint(s) I, muscleweakness l, and fatigue I I.2.2.4 Conceptual knowledge and calculationThe knowledge banks which form the core ofthe system are the ilg_xJgg.a nd the set ofconceotual relations.A lexical entry, e.g.
aids, is a three-placepredicate consisting of the actual lexeme, itsconcept type and its word category.
So:(aids, concept (nosology-concept, aids, lu, u,u, u, u, ul), n).As one will observe, the second argument, heconcept ype, consists of a sixtuple, i.c.
sixunspecificied slots.
The parsing of definitions iprecisely aimed at fillinf, or snecifving theseslots.It is the set of conceptual relations that aconcept ype may have that determines thisspecification.
At the moment such aI ~  for diseases (nosology concepts),somewhat simplified, looks as follows:nos-conceptg affects (nos, {macro,embryo})o_affects (nos, organism)caused_by (nos, etiology)has_symptom (nos, finding)transmitted by (nos, trans)has qual (nos, qual)micro, funct,In our approach the universe of discourse issplit up into 22 interrelated ooncepttypes,which, as a rule, form homogeneous subsets.At the center of it one finds nosology conceptswhich show relations with other concepttypeswhich in their turn may show relations withother concepttypes, which in their turn arerelated to other concepttypes, etc.At this point it is important to see that implicitconcepts such as nosology concepts, (and so theconceptual meaning of the iexeme aids e.g.
)can a.o.
be defined/specified by concepts takenfrom the domain of macro- and micro-anatomyand that, in the given case, the relation betweenboth arguments will be established.
In thisrespect it is crucial for the parser to find thehead conceot of the definitional phrase.
It doesso by setting up a syntax-based hypothesis(taking the rightmost noun occurring in front ofthe first delimiter) and checking it withconceptual knowledge.
In case of a definitionof aids as"a group of diseases secondary to a defect incell-mediated immunity associated with asingle newly discovered virus" (taken fromEurodicautom)in a first instance group will be taken up ashead.
Afterwards it will be rejected onconceotual grounds, a.o.
because of the factthat group is not considered a medical concept.In other cases head shiftin~ will take placebecause of the fact that the head candidate cannot be conceptually specified by its subheads(conceptual incompatibility between theassumed head and its subhead(s)).
In the samevein, when being confronted with "classes ofphenomena that present great difficulties for allsyntactic formalisms (...) \[One ofl, the mostimportant of these being conjunction (...)"(Winograd 1983, 257-258), the parser againwill solve (or try to solve) these cases bymaking use of conceptual information.
That, inthe case of rheumatoid arthritis, it does notyield parses such as 'swelling of muscleAcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES.
23-28 AOt~' 1992 9 9 0 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES.
AUO.
23-28, 1992(weakness)' and that it manages to combine'joints' both with 'swelling' and 'inflammation'proves it to be fairly successful in this respect.Other examples of conceptual calculation implythe establishment of new concept ypes out ofold ones.
'Throat' e.g., being a macro-anatomical concept, becomes a finding conceptwhen in combination with a qual concept suchas in 'sore', this way 'sore throat' can 'fill' asymptom relation with a nosoiogy concept.This example also shows that the ~ isconceived as an ~ one: concepts arethought of as atoms from which more complexstructures can be derived; if the latter arecompositional nd can be computed however,they are not taken up as such.
Other examplesof conceptual par~ing include the application ofrules for PP-attachment.
Compare: "a diseasecharacterized by a sense of constrictionchest" vs. "a disease characterized by a senseof constriction i  children".
In the tbrmer casethe PP 'in the chest' will be attached to thepreceding concept 'constriction', in the latterthe PP 'in children' will be attached to the headconcept 'disease'.
Local attachment of PP's(other than those introduced by 'ot ~) onlyprevails on global attachment ( o the head) ifcertain conceptual conditions are met, such asthe nature of the concept types in the PPtollowing a finding concept such as'constriction'.2.2.5 FramesGiven a definition of which the head orconceptual type has been established, the parsertries to fill its conceptual template or frame asmuch as possible.
It does so by lookingrecursively for pre- and postmodifiers (thelatter are called subheads), which 'fit' the head(or its modifiers).
Fitting here means that theconcept type of the governed lexemecorresponds with the concept type of one of thearguments of the template of the governingiexeme.
In the 'rheumatoid arthritis' exampleabove e.g.
the functional concept type of which'musculo-skeletal system' is an instantiation,'fits' or 'fills' the first argument or slot of theconcept ype rheumatoid arthritis belongs to.M.m.
the .came can be ,said tor all the otherslot-fillers.Front the above it will have become clear thatfor the representation of conceptual meaningwe have chosen tbr a frame-based system (seee.g.
Habel 1985): concept types are defined byframes, i.e.
sets of conceptual slots, attributesor features.3.
UsefulnessThe parser described here tries to serve atwofold aim.
In the first place its aim isp_~aJ_Citl.
By making definitions conceptuallyexplicit it is first of all possible to enhance theaccess to data bases (by making search itemsavailable in a systematic way).
Secondlybecause of the fact that definitional knowledgebecomes available in a systematic way, it alsobecomes possible now to generate from pilrtialconceptual knowledge (answering suchquestions as: what is the term for the diseasecaused by HIV?, how is the disease affectingthe immune system called ?
etc.).
Finally, byyielding 'semantically relational knowledge',syntactically ambinuous structures can be morereadily solved (think of PP-attachment, cf.
hetreated the children with epilepsy).In the second place the system-cure-parser wasset up as a pilot project in order to shed somelight Oll such notions as lexicon ~tructure and(power of) conceat-oriented parsing.
Judgingfrom the results obtained up till now, we daresay that, with regard to the former, arelational-conceptual model of the lexiconoffers interesting perspectives (although we stillhave to tackle in more detail such problems asconcept disjunction and non-monotonic defaultAcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOUT 1992 9 9 1 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992reasoning), and that, with regard to theparsing, in as far as analytical definitionsreflect a conceptual structure, syntacticproblems in parsing become by far morefeasible to overcome.4.
Bibliom'aohvM.Reedijk, Een conceptuele oarser voordefinities van medische termen, ms.,Amsterdam, 1991.Winograd, T., l~lneuage as a cognitiv?EtO?_?~.
Vol 1: Svntax,  Addison-Wesley,1983.Alshawi, H., Analysing the dictionarydefinitions, in: B.Boguraev and T.Briscoe,(Eds.
), Comoutational Lexicography forNatural Languaze Processing, london/NewYork, 1989, 153-169.- Burkert G. and P.Forster, Representation fsemantic knowledge with term subsumptionlanguages, ms., Stuttgart, 1991.- Habel, C., Das Lexikon in der Forschung derkiinstlichen Intelligenz, in: C.Schwarze andD.Wunderlich, (Eds.
), Handbu?ta ?lerLexikologie, K/3nigstein, 1985, 441-474.Mars, V.
e.a., Eindrapportage Saoiens-P_r_oj?~, UT-gedeelte, Twente, 1991.Martin, W.
e.a., Over Aflex.
Relset.Conceotor e.a., VU-bijdrage tot bet Sapiens-prototype, Amsterdam, 1991.- Martin, W.
e.a., Dilemma, an automaticlemmatizer, in: .CA/lJllg~, 1988, 5-62.- Martin W. and E.ten Pas, Metatools forTerminology, in: CorpusgebaseerdeWoordanalvse.
Jaarboek 1991, Amsterdam,1991, 83-99.- H.Paulussen and W.Martin, Dilemma-2: alemmatizer-tagger for medical abstracts,conference on Aoolied Natural Lan~,uaeeProcessing.
Trento.
1-3 Aoril 1992, ACLMorristown 1992, 141-146.AcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 ^ O~'r 1992 9 9 2 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992
