O. IntroductionThis article describes a project whose aim is to specifytools to be integrated in an environment for lexicalanalyses.
As a result, a prototype of a workbench can becreated which provides a user with several modulespossessing different functions, in order to approach a textfrom different viewpoints.The prototype has been implemented on Macintosh.Every module can be used autonomously; once integratedin the environment they realize a sort of network of toolsinteracting with one another.Let us take a look at the single components of thesystem.Firstly, the user has at his disposal tools for theprocessing of a text in order to obtain indexes,concordances, lmnmatizations and various types ofstatistic analyses.The prototype also supplies the representational tools forstructuring knowledge.A module containing an ontological reference scheme maybe used to show a network of relationships betweenconcepts or to suggest the description of single concepts.The user is also given a further possibility: access,starting from any node in the ontological network, to alexical archive indicating all the terms that describe aspecific onceptual field, with their relative definitions.In this way, the system helps in the interactive treatmentof texts and nmkes it possible to mmlyze and to organizevarious types of information about a text.The front-end and certain modules have becu implementedby using HyperCard TM.
This has certain cousequences onthe interface to the global system, and on the structure addfunction of any single component.In a hypermedia framework, a text is no more a sequenceof words or sentences, as phenomenologically it appearsto a user, but it is a virtnal network of the associationsimplicit in it.In this way, the substance of a text coincides with theset of its possible readings: its informative content is amagma of fragments whose sense is re-created in thepath of each reading.From a theoretical viewpoint, a hypertext denotes anon-linear writing whose structure is a set of nodes liuk~lby arcs.
Nodes contain informative contents, while arcsrepresent he possible associations between differentinformative contents, in accordance with the logic of thehypertext i self.To sum up, the organization of the diflerent knowledgesources within the system facilitates the behaviour of ahuman operator working on a text from differentviewpoints by using the computational metaphor ofAN INTEGRATED ENVIRONMENTFOR LEXICAL ANALYSES IC.
CALIGAI~IS, A. CAPPELLI, M. N. CATARSI, L. MORE'Iq'Ilstituto di Linguistica Computazionale - CNRPisa, Italyhypertexts as a means of presentation of data: he canconsult a library of electronic books, generate and consultlexical archives and indexes of frequencies, andcontextualize words representing the knowledge of a text,while using knowledge sources of different ypes as acontrol and a guide.
The global ,architecture of the systemis shown in figure 1.Ontok~llc.~l Bodu~Figure 11.
Lexical Treatment of TextsThe user has at his disposal certain tools by which he canbuild and consult several sources, each of whichconstitutes a sub-enviromnent wi h its own specific tools.In particuhtr, a library offers a set of texts to be treated byusing a set of lexicographic tools (..Elaborazione l,,essicaleTesti) (Moretti, 1991).1 This work was partially supported by Progetto Finalizzato Sistemi lnformatici e Calcolo Parallelo fC.N.R.Ac'rEs DE COLING-92.
NAI',rrES, 23-28 AOI~'i" 1992 9 3 S I)ROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992The environment 'text' is composed of electronic books,and it allows the user to perform all classical operations oftext processing with the text 'on line'.
In particular,concordances can be obtained by choosing the length ofthe context, lists of frequencies or variants can be shown,and lemmatization can be performed interactively b  usingthe lexical archive as a guide.Hypermedia technology makes it possible to approach thetext in several ways, since the fragments of a textcan be linked in accordance toa possible reading criterion.In this sense, it is possible to match different criticaleditions or to follow the text in accordance withlinguistic stylistic facts.2.
Knowledge Representation LanguageThe knowledge representation language is a member ofthe family of hybrid systems, and is made up of aterminological component and an assertional one,although certain characteristics make it more similar toclassical KL-One (Cappelli et al, 1983; Bracbman &Scbmoltze, 1985; Nebel, 1989).The terminological part may be used for the definition ofgeneric oncepts, representing classes of objects, while theassertional part is used for the definition of individualconcepts, representing single objects.The structures of the terminological part serve to specifythe properties of the generic oncept that we are defining.The principle of inheritance applies among the concepts ofthe network.
The sub-concept inherits the properties of thesuperconcept, even if these are not expressly declared.Furthermore it is possible to indicate, by means of othergeneric oncepts, the relationships that exist between theproperties of the generic concept hat we are defining:these relationships are known as structural descriptions.The syntax of the terminology is shown in the following<terminology> ::=<generic declarations> ;<role declarations> ;<paraindividual declarations> ;<generic declarations> ::=(<generic dentifier> =<generic>)*<role declarations> ::= (<role identifier> = <role>)*<paraindividual declarations> ::=(<paraindividual identifier> = <pamindividual>)*<generic> ::= <generic dentifier> Ithing I(primC <index>) I(and <generic> <generic>) I(or <generic> <generic>)l(all <role> <generic>) I(atleast <number> <role>)l(atmost <number> <role>)(sd <paraindividual> <generic>)<role> ::= <role identifier> I(primR <generic> <name>)<paraindividual> ::= <paraindividual identifier> I(paraindividual <generic> <name>+)<generic dentifier> ::= stringa di caratteri<role identifier> ::= stringa di earatteri<paraindividual identifier> ::= stringa di caratteri<name> ::= stringa di caratteriThe structures of the assertional part serve to defineindividual concepts by specifying the values assumed bythe properties of the corresponding generic oncept.The language is based on an intensional semantics,formally specified in Mazzeranghi (1991), and itsconstructors are interpreted on a universe of structuredobjects.
In other words, the denotation of a genericconcept is represented byits properties.It is thus suitable to account for complex processesinvolving properties of objects which are specific to thelinguistic analysis of a text and, in particular, to thestructuring of lexical knowledge.The expressive power of the language has been furtherincreased in order to account for other conceptual facts,such as recursive definitions (father~mother) or definitionsexpressed by procedures (length, addition, subtraction)(Mazzeranghi, 1991).As an example, the partial definition of the conceptfootball-team is shown in the following:football-team =(and team(all member football-player)(atleast 11 mertd)er))that is to say, a football-team is a type of team whosemembers are football-players who are at least l 1.
Thedenotation of football-team is the following:I footba!l-tecun =max max nUPR OD(t I(\[T 1\] rain 5,...,t n(\[T r,\] nun ~ )'/Zt~t/0_f_c(\[P\] 11))where:PROD denotes the Cartesian product,max\[An\]min~ denotes the lists of elements belonging to A,whose length is between rain and max(if max=nil then there is no upper bound to the length ofthe lists),m _.~..~, which is the name of the role member, acts as atype constructor,tl ,...,tn are the names of the properties inherited by team,TI,...,Tn are the value-restrictions of the propertiesinherited by team,minl,maxl,...,minn,max n re the number-restrictions fthe properties inherited by team,P is the denotation of football-player.The denotation of football-team is graphically representedin figure 2 (where circles represent denotations of genericconcepts and squares represent denotations of roles).The language can be used to interrogate he ontologicalmodule, which can give information about both thesyntax and the semantics of the definition of a concept,which in turn can be translerred into the body of aprogramme specified in terms of the language itself.3.
Ontological moduleThe ontological module serves to guide the user in theacquisition and structuring of knowledge by suggestingAcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOC'r 1992 9 3 6 DROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23~28, 1992hypotheses about the descriptiou ol coucepls and thci~possible relatiouships.TI (min l ,max l )lm~RuLr, p" ' "  team\]  I I \ [ footba l l - "~y , - - '~  J -ac > a /Tn (minn ,naaxn)Figure 2At present, it contaius a collection el two hundredconcepts organised into the form of a scmiultic uetwnrk,with which it is possible to classify a vast portion ofreality.This leads to a laxonouly which serves its an ontologicalreference guide, snggesting the map of possiblerelationships between concepts untl the most plausibleelements of their structure.3.1.
Ontological TheoriesMany theories have been proposed about ontologicaldescriptions of coucepts (S m ith & Medin, 1981).In the classical model, concepts arc described hy usingnecessary and safficient conditions.
\[u other models,proposed by psychologists, descriptive lements urcpartitioned rote properties and dimensions, the fornlcrbeing labels assmning binary lrulh values, while the latteronly numerical values.
In certain cases, descriptiveelements arc related to their definiendum on tile bilsis ofprobabilistic parameters or fuzzy logic.A taxonomy of part-whole relations has also beenproposed (Winston et al, 1987; Fredcrking & Gehrkc,1988) where properties arc classified into six types(component~integral object, member~collection,portion~mass, tuff/object,fbature/activity, place/area) anddeductions can he performed according to certainprinciples which govern the relation between thedefiniendum and its descriptive parts, such as, \[or iustauce,transitivity.Outologists have propostxl global models ou tile basis oftypes of concepts and of their properties.
The world isthen partitioned lute substances aud accidents and ce~tamclassical notions are dcfiued, snch as genu.~, eidos , etc(Simons, 1983).KCmer (1970) defines a categorial framework as a wholewhere epistemological, logical and ontological aspects ureintertwinexl.Keil (1989) introduces a division rote three general typesof concepts: natural, nominal and art~fact, and describescriteria for their individuation and description.Knowledge-based systems using large kuowlcdgc basesorganized on the basis of ontological principles have beenprnt~Jse.d in Artificial Intelligence (Nirenburg & Moltarch,1987; Lena( & Gnha, 1990; Onyshkevych & Nireubarg,1991)Briefly, efiin ts have been devotexl to finding out criteria forstructurinp the world by individuatiug both general tylmsof coucepts iull)osiug goueral constraints oil subtypes andtypes of properties which are i)ertiueut to specific types ofconceilts.
In i)articular, tile logic has been investigatedwhich goverlls Ihe relationship between a definiemlnm andits definiens, even it so tar results are far from bciugdefinilivc.3,2.
Ontological classtficat#mTo be cpistcmologically adequate, an ontology mustinclude i) a taxonomy of concepts wilh lheil descriptions,it) classification and indivklualion t~riuciples associated toconcepts.L2,I, TaxonomyAs lcgards the coustruction (if 1he taxonomy, certll iuoptious have been adopted, with the aim el accomttingfor aspects el tile inucr ilaturc el cr)ucepts andgtlalauteeing a consistent method of acquisition ofknowledge and, consequently, a plausible level ofiuterential powcl.At the toll of tile taxonolny, as "pule ontological"summa genera, the distinction into: natural (apple, lion),nominal (mayor), al~d artifilct kimls (cat, chair) has beendfawu.Nalural kinds are those existing in nature aud arc descdbexlby natural sciences; lhey "tele, to classes of lhiugs thatoccur m the world iudcpendeillly of hnnlau activities"(Kcil, 1989 1).25).
Artifacts arc elements ii~tentionallybtlilt to IlerfoHn a specific lmlction.
Nonlinal kiuds areinere abstl'act cnlities which collsist of it descliptiou(mayor) which can bc applied lo instunccs belonging todiflk~rcnl kinds.This distinction between tmtohlgical kinds is relevant illorder to slrncture \[be universe iu\[o chunks of knowledgewhich ure homogeneous from all inlereutial pniut of view.l,et us illlfo(ltlce all exualple ill order to clarify thestructure (fl the hi,Ill.The nominal kind "lllayor" can be applied loa person whois a human being - a natural kind , and it denotes atemporary status of such a human beiug.
To be no longera nlayor dogs not inlply the negation of the existence oftill individual, while to uegalc lhe essence as a hulllaubeing does.
"\]'his classificatilm obviously has effects onthe outological existence of objects (Wiggins, 1980;Keil, 1989).
From the point el view of the topologicalSkructure l (lie IIl~lp, this \[)hellolneln)ll creates a complexchunk of knowledge, its shown in figure 3.Only u correct disposition o\[ the concepts involvedguarantees the right instamiation of individuals, thusallewmg trae intetcuces.3.2.2 Descriptions of conceptshi describing a cnnccl:,t, Cell2tiu illhelenl luoperties areexpressed.
To be something means sharing certaiu typesof descriptive parts with a set of other concepls.
Thedescription of a single concept has to express thein'opel(its ou the basis of which it cau be diflcreutiated andindlviduatcxl.AClT~ roe COLING-92, NAbrITS, 23-28 ^ ot'rr 1992 9 3 7 Pt~oc.
o1: COLING 92, NANrlis, AUG. 23-28, 1992In the ontological map, certain types of properties areassociated with a concept which, as a whole, constitutes aguiding reference scheme for the description of all itsdependent subconcepts.Figure 3As an example, the concept "container" isassociated toaset containing the following types of properties: content,stuff, shape,function, and component.It is worth noting that these last are ~ of properties towhich specific values can be associated in the descriptionof each single subconcept or individual.On the basis of these types, a set of constraints can bespecified, such as, for instance:the property 'Stuff' follows the part-whole taxonomicmodel as shown in Winston et al (1987) and Frederking& Gerhke, (1988);the property 'Content' is organized on the basis of the"place/area" model, where the following transitivityprinciple is valid: if in(x,y) ~ in(z,x) then in(z,y);'Shape' in certain cases refers to the shape of one of thecomponents of a container, which may coincide with theshape of the whole;'Component' also follows the part-whole model;'Contextual use' is to be intended as a social and not afunctional use, the latter being the specific use ofcontaining something.To sum up, every type of property is interpreted through aspecific set of rules.
In this way, a sort of infinite latticestructure is realized where different axiomatic systems ofknowledge coexist (see figure 4), each of which has itsown interpreter and interacts with the others (Woods,1990).3.2.3. lndividuation principlesThe map has been created by using the knowledgerepresentation language previously described, whichsupports classification a d individuation principles.The calculus of the properties of a concept makes itpossible to build concepts using constructs, uch as; forinstance, and, or, not, applied to roles of concepts, or tocompare concepts, or to classify concepts on the basis oftheir whole structures.Furthermore, the knowledge representation language hasacquired more "ontological" adequacy by the insertions ofglobal ontological rules concerning the number ofproperties a concept can possess, uch as for instance:- if two concepts each have only one property and theproperties belong to the .same type, then the propertiescannot have the same value;- no value can appear more than once in the description ofa concept, etc..These rules act as integrity constraints in the creation ofPhy~c al ~EventsLiv~g Things Functional~ArtifactsSentient Beings Nonsentient BeingsI Part-WholeTaxonomyContainersI stuffI C?mwn~tl II sha~ IIFigure 4concepts and control both the syntax and the semantics ofthe knowledge base beeing created.
In other words, theresult has been achieved of specifying a sort of "stylechecker" guiding in the manipulation fknowledge.Furthermore, procedures of any kind can be associated toconcepts for their interpretation (Ihooks).In this way the knowledge representation system realizesde facto an object-oriented system.In our system it is possible to specify an assertionalAC'rES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt3"r 1992 9 3 8 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992language which makes it possible to introduce anindividual concept into a programming language, like anyother data type.
For instance, an individual concept ispassed to a function as a l)arameter; once verified that thisindividual is an instance of a generic oncept, or of one ofits subeoncepts, he fimction will be executed.4.
Lexical archiveThe lexieal archive contains a set of lemmas to whichwith the following information is associated: i) a set offorms with morphological categories; ii) etimology; iii)phonological transcription; iv) definitions in form oftext.Every type of information can be usexl for retrieving datainside the lexical archive.
In order to retrieve conceptualknowledge, which can be extracted from definitions, manypossibilities are given.
By applying the ELT tools, whichmake it possible to contextualize l?~rtions of texts, thevisualisation of the definition of a word can be obtained,or the immediate super-ordinates of the word, or the entireconceptual hierarchy implicit in the whole archive can beretrieved, or parts of definitions in order 1o find outdifferences or commonalities can be compared.4.1.
Linking ontology and lexical itemsConcepts in the ontology are linked to lexicul terms of thelexical archive and, vice-versa, from any lexical entry inthe archive, the ontological module can be accessed.
Thisis done by using a set of entry points which correspond tospecific elements in a definition.Certain concepts of the ontological network arc associatedwith a list of operators which map the concept insignificant words inside definitions.
As an example, theconcept of "human being" can be mapped onto theoperators 'person', 'who' which realize the concept of"human being" in the lexical archive.
Accessing thelexical archive starting from the ontological module,lexical tools are triggered which make use of the list ofthe operators as searching criteria.
In this way the explicitorganization of knowledge of the ontological module isvirtually linked to the organization which is implicit inthe lexical archive.5.
ConclusionsTo sum up, we may say that we are trying to create anenvironment composed of various tools, integratedtogether, which allows the treatment of a text, and tofacilitate the construction and the use of knowledge bases,created from the text itself, for a human operator.The construction of each single module and its integrationwithin the global system has been carried out taking intoaccotmt the philosophy of knowlcxlge-bascxl systems andhypertexLs.The latter represent a good tool lot the presentation ofdata, thus allowing 'personal' readings of them: once theyarc integrated with knowledge-based tools, the globalexpressive power of the system substantially increases,since data can be abstractly manipulatc~l.Knowledge representation tools make it possible to buildspecific theories of the world; by using these tools withthe control of an ontological reference schema, any usercan realize his own theory of the world in a continuouscomparison with a 'standard' organization of knowledge.The specific theory is then able to increase the modalitiesof searching through dau~ sto~,.d in different modules, sinceit acts as an intelligent interface to data.
For instance, itcan be used as a filter in searching in the lexical archive,thus overcoming the low degree of expressiveness of itsstored information.
In this way, a more flexibleinteraction with any module can be obtained.ReferencesBrachman R. J., Schmolze J. G., An overview of fileKL-ONE Knowledge Representation System, CognitiveScience 9 (1985).Cappelli A., Moretti L., Vinchesi C., KL-Conc: aLanguage for Interacting with a SI-Nets, in Proceedings ofthe 8th-lJCAl Conference, Los Altos: Kaufmann, 1983.Frederking R. E., Gehrke M., Resolving AnaphoricReferences in a DRT-based Dialogue System, in H.Trostted.
), 40sterreichische Artificial-Intelligence- Tagung,Springer, 1988, 94-103.Keil F. C., Semantic and conceptual development,Cambridge (Ma.
): Harvard University Press, 1979.Keil F. C., Concepts, Kinds, and CognitiveDevelopment, Cambridge: MIT Press, 1989.KOrner S., Categorial FrameworL~, Oxford: Blackwell,1970Lenat D.
t3., Guha R. V., Building LargeKnowledge-Based Systems, Representation a d Inferencein the Cyc Project, Reading (Ma.
): Addison-Wesley,1990.Mazzeranghi D., Una Semantica lntensionale per unLinguaggio di Rappresentazione della Conoscenza, ILC-KRS-1991-3, Pisa: Ist.
di Linguistica Computazionale,1991.Moretti L., Text Processing in un Ambiente lpertestuale,in Atti del Corso Seminariale "Nuove Tecnologie BeniCulturali" a cura dell'Aecademia di Studi Mediterranei dAgrigento, 199l.Nebel B., Reasoning and Revision in IlybridRepresentation Syster~z~, Berlin, 1990.Nirenburg S., Monarch I., The role of Ontology inConcept Acquisition for Knowledge-Based Systems,Carnegie- Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, 1987.Onyshkevych 13.
A., Nirenburg S., Lexicon, Ontologyand Text Meaning, in J. Pustejovsky & S. Bergler (eds.
),Lexical Semantics and Knowledge Representation,Berkeley (Ca.
), 1991.Simons P., A Lesniewskian l ,anguage for theNominalistic Theory of Substance and Accident, lbpoi 2(1983), 99-109.Smith E. E., Modin D. L., Categories and Concepts,Cambridge (Mr.): Harvard Univ.
Press, 1981.Wiggins D., Sameness and Substance, Oxford: BasilBlackwell, 1980.Winston M. E., Chaffin R., Hernnann D., A Taxonomyof Part-Whole Relations, Cognitive Science 11 (1987),417-444.Woods W. A., Understunding Subsumption andTaxonomy: A Framework for Progress, TR-19-90,Harvard Univ.
Center for Research in ComputingTechnology, Aiken Computation Laboratory, Cambridge(Ma.
), 1990.AC'rES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AoL'r 1992 9 3 9 PaOC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992
