Accenting and Deaccenting:a Declarative ApproachArthur DirksenInstitute for Perception l{esearch/IPO1'.O.
Box 513, 5600 MB Eindhoven, The NetherlandsE-m~il: dirksenQheiipo5.bitnet1 In t roduct ionOne of the problems that must be addressedby a text-to-speech system is the derivationof pitch accent, marking the distinction be-tween "given" and "new" information in anutterance.
This paper discusses a language-independent approach to this problem, whichis based on focus-accent theory (e.g.
Ladd1978, Gussenhoven 1984, t3aart t987), andimplemented in my program PRos-a .
Thisprogram has been developed as part of theESPRIT-project POLYGLOT, and providesan integrated environment for modelling thesyntax-to-prosody interface of a multi-lingualtext-to-speech system.The program operates in the followingmanner.
First, the input text is parsed usinga variation of context-free phrase-structurerules, attgmented with information about "ar-gument" structure of phrases.
Next, the syn-tactic representation is mapped onto a met-rical tree.
The metrical tree is then used toderive locations for pitch accents, as well asphonological and intonational phrase bound-aries.in this approach, differences between lawguages are modelled entirely by the syntacticrules.
Also, the system is strictly declaratiw:,in the sense that once a piece of information isadded by a rule, it is never removed.
In thisrespect, our approach differs radically fromsystems which make use of derivational rules(e.g.
Quend & Kager 1992).
Such systemstend to become extremely complex, hard toverify and almost impossible to maintain orextend (Quenb & Dirksen 1990, Dirksen &Quen6 in press).
By contrast, in PROS-3there is a conspicuous relation between theoryand implementation, attd the program can beextended in a number of ways)Below, 1 will focus on two major rulesfrom focus-accent theory: Default Accent andl/.hythn~ic Deaccenting.
The tirst rule is usedto model deaccenting of "given" information,e.g.
the pronouns it, her and cs in the English,l)utch and German sentences of (1), (2) and(3), respectively.
(1)a I should have read a BOOKb I should have READ it(2)a ik had een BOEK moeten 1.ezenb ik had her moeten LEZEN(3)a ich hatte ein BUCII lesen sol lenb ich hatte es LESEN sollenThe second rule is used to provide rtlythmi-cal alternations between accented and deae-cented material in certain well-defined con-texts, as is illustrated by the sentences of (4).
(4 )a  she is a NICE GIRL1One extension we ` are currently considering is the`addition of some kind of discourse model (`along thelines of Hirschberg 1990) to more adequately modelthe "given new" distinction.
Also, some prelimin,arywork tt,as been done on phonological p,arsing (e.g.Coleman 1990, 1991; see ,also his paper in this vol-ume) to derive word stress `and temporal structure ofwords.ACTES DE COLING-92, NA1VH~S.
23-28 AOUr 1992 8 6 5 I'ROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AU6.23-28, 1992b she is REALLY NICEc she is a REALLY nice GIRLd she is REALLY a NICE GIRLThis paper is organized as follows.
Section2 briefly introduces focus-accent theory andhow it may be implemented.
Next, sections 3and 4 discuss Default Accent and RhythmicDeaccenting, respectively.
In section 5, wemake some concluding remarks.2 From Focus  to AccentIn focus-accent heory, metrical trees areused to represent relative prominence ofnodes with respect o pitch accent.
Whethera given node is accented or not is accountedfor in terms of the focus/non-focus distinction.For example, a pitch accent on book in thephrase read a book may be accounted for byassuming the metrical structure (5).
(s)  +F/ \w s/ \w sread a bookIn (5), the entire phrase is marked+F(ocus) ,  iodicating that it is to be inter-preted as a "new" or otherwise important  ad-dition to the discourse.
The relation betweenthe focus-marker and a pitch accent on book ismediated by the labels w(eak) and s(trong),and formally accounted for by the followingrecursivc rule: 2Accent  Ru leFor each node X, X is accented ifa.
X is marked +F,  orb.
X is strong, and the node immediatelydominat ing X is accented.2By convention, only weak or root nodes aremarked +F, thus indicating the upper bound of whatis sometimes called the "focus set".Baart (1987) assumes that the metrical a-beling of a structure is determined by syn-tact ic / thematic  properties of phrases suchas specification and complementation.
Moregenerally, we assume that "arguments" whichare not deaccented are strong.
For example,in (i) the NP a book is an argument of theverb read.
Also, a determiner takes a nounas an argument.
In a PROS-3 grammar,  onemust make this explicit by writing rules suchas those in (6).
(6)a VP -> (V/NP) (English)b VP -> (NP\V) (Dutch/German)c NP -> (Det/N)in such rules, (X/Y)  or (Y \X)  serves toindicate that Y is an argument of X. Ifwe ignore deacccenting, argument structuredirectly determines the geometrical proper-ties of the metrical tree, and we may read(X/Y)  or (Y \X)  as weak-stron.q or strong-weak, respectively.
3Also, a PROS-3 grammar  must  indicatewhich nodes are eligible for focus (normally,all major phrasal categories).
If a node is el-igible for focus, it must either be accented ordeaccented.
Words which are typically deac-cented are specified as such in a lexicon.In our implementat ion,  a binary-branchingmetrical tree is used as the central data-structure, and the relation between focus andaccent is defined by using sharing variables,which may becmne instant iated to a value"true" (:=accented)or "false" (=&accented) ,or remain unspecified (=not  accented).
Thefollowing definitions are used to implementaccenting: 4accented(X) :-X:accent === true.3Even though metrical t rees  are  strictly binary-branching, nnflti-branehing are  accommodated by al-lowing rules such as S ~ (NP/(Infl/VP)).4The notation has been borrowed from Gazdar &Mellish 1989; '=--=' is the unification operator, andNode:Attr indicates a path in a graph (or a field iu arecord).
We assume negation by failure as in standardProlog implementations.ACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 ^ol~r 1992 8 6 6 PRec.
oF COLING-92.
NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992strong(X, Y) :-"X:accent === Y:accent.deaccented(X) i -not accented(X) .focus(X)  :-accented(X) ;deaccented(X).The statement  accented(X)  may be usedto assign accent to a node, or to verifythat the node is acccented.
The state-rnent s t rong  (X, Y), which reads "the strongnode of X is Y" implements condition b ofthe Accent Rule above by unifying the val-ues for accent of X and Y.
The statementdeaccented(X)  succeeds if tile value for ac-cent of X is instant iated to "false", and failsotherwise, so it may be used as a test.
Simi.larly, the statement  not  deaccented(X)  maybe used to test whether it might be possibleto assign accent to X, but will not instantiateany values.
Finally, the statement  :focus(X)is used to assign accent o those nodes markedby the grammar  writer as "eligible for focus",unless they have been deacccented.3 Defau l t  AccentConsider again the sentences in (1), (2) and(3), and observe that when the NP the bookis replaced by the pronoun it, pitch accentappears to "shift" from the NP to the mostdeeply embedded verb, read, of which it isan argument.
Any differences between English, Dutch and German seem to be strictlya matter  of syntax.
Assuming appropriatephrase-structure ules, such as (6)a and b,this is reflected in the corresponding metri-cal tree.
The metrical structure of the verb-phrase of (1)a, is a strictly r ight-branchingstructure which is uniformly labeled as weak-strong.
The metrical trees corresponding tothe verb phrases of (2)a and (3)a, shown in(7) and (8), a~e les~ uni form.
(7) / \s wI \  I \I4 S l~ S...con boek moeten lezen(8) / \sI \  I \W S S W. .
.e in  Buch lesen  so l lenIn order to account for the b-sentences of(1), (2) and (3), in which a (deaccented) pro-noun replaces NP, it seems that all that  isneeded is a reversal of the weak-strong label-ing of the VP-node.
To this end, Baart (1987)assumes the following rule:DEFAULT ACCENTa I \  => I \W S S WA B A Bb / \  => / \S W W SB A B ACondition: B is deaccentedIn PROS-3, this rule is implemented as afilter, called STP, wtfich takes as input a syn-tactic structure assigned by the parser, andproduces as output a metrical tree.
A typicalinvocation might be:VP->(V/NP) => Prosody,focus  (VP).Using the definitions of section 2, STP isdefined by the following set of rules: ~~'l'ake note that we are rather frivolous in usingthe slash-notation to encode both argument structureand metrical structure, though, of course, the two aredistinct.
That is, the metrical tree does not replaceargument structure, but is merely its realization inthe domain of sentence prosody.AcrEs DE COLING-92, NAlVl'l!s, 23-28 AO\[~-r 1992 8 6 7 PRec.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992STPz->(x/Y) => z->(x\Y) :-deaccented(Y),strong(Z, X).b Z->(X/Y) => Z->(X/Y) :-not deaccen%ed(Y),strong(Z, Y).c Z->(Y\X) => Z->(Y/X) :-deaccented(Y),strong(Z, X).Z->(Y\X) => Z->(YkX) :-not deaccented(Y),strong(Z, Y).Cases a and c implement Default Accent,whereas b and d represent the "normal" case.4 Rhythmic DeaccentingRhythmic factors provide a second sourceof deaccenting phenomena.
They apply tostructures such as (9), representing (4)c fromsection 1, and (10), representing the Dutchsentence "er is op VEEL plaatsen REGENvoorspeld" (there is in MANY places RAINpredicted), meaning: it has been predictedthat it will rain in many places.
(9) / \w s/ \w sreally nice girl(10) / \w s/ \w s/ \w sop ree l  p laatsen  regenAlthough the pitch accent patterns impliedby these structures are well-formed, there is astrong preference for deaceenting nice in (9)and plaatsen in (10).
In order to account forthese phenomena, we assume the followingoptional rule (adapted from Baart 1987):RHYTHM RULE/ \ => I \w s w sI \  I \(w s )  (w s )/ \  /1W S S WA B C h B CIn this rule, brackets indicate a substruc-ture which may repeated zero or more times.A further equirement is that nodes A, B andC are not deaccented.The Rhythm Rule differs from Default Ac-cent in that it is not a local rule: its struc-tural change, tile weak-strong reversal of Aand B, is dependent ell the presence of a nodeC whose weak sister-node dominates A andB in a rather complex manner.
One way toimplement such context-sensitive rules in adeclarative framework, is to use feature per-colation.
Space does not permit us to workout the implementation in full detail (thereare also some additional requirements o bemet), but the following should give the readersome idea.First, we add a new case to the STP-filterabove, implementing the structural change ofthe Rhythm Rule, and marking the resultingstructure with a feature annotation i dicatingthat the Rhythm Rule has "applied":Z->(X/Y) => Z->(X\Y) :-not deaccented(X),not deacccented(Y) ,strong(Z,  X),Z:rhyt lm_rule === t rue .Next, we make sure that this feature ispercolated upwards in weak-strong configura-tions, and blocked wherever necessary in or-der to filter out over-generation.ACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt3T 1992 8 6 8 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 19925 Conclus ionAs emphasized above, PROS-3 is a language-independent system for deriving sentenceprosody in a text-to-speech system.
This istrue, of course, only to the extent hat focus-accent heory and its major rules are univer-sals of linguistic theory.
Clearly, the proof ofthe pudding is in the eating.
At IPO, PROS-3is currently being evaluated for I)utch, usinga grammar of about 125 rules ai,d a lexiconof some 80,000 word forms derived from theCELEX lexical database.
Also, we are work-ing on grammars and lexicons of comparablesize and scope for English and German, andPROS-3 is used in the POLYGLOT-projectfor several F, uropean languages.Although preliminary results are encour-aging, there are also problems which needmention.
First, tim focus/non-focus distinc-tion is modelled by rather crude heuristics(i.e.
taking each major phrase as a candi-date for focus, deaeeenting of pronouns etc.by lexical specification).
It would be niceif something more flexible and "discourse-aware" could be built in.
Second, we havedeliberately kept the PROS-3 grammar for-malism rather simple (Mlowing only atomicsyntactic categories), so we could guaranteefairly efficient processing, tlowever, simplecontext-free rules do not disambiguate verywell.
Third, simple rules cannot fully takeinto account verb subcategorization.
As aresult, it is sometimes impossible to makethe distinction between arguments and non-arguments, which is crucial to the metricalrules.
So, what we need to do, is find an op-timal compromise between sophistication ofsyntactic analysis and efficiency of process-ing.
We think that PROS-3 is the right toolto do this.6 B ib l iographyBaart, J.L.G.
(1987), Focus, syntax and ac-cent placement, Diss.
University of Leiden.Coleman, J.S.
(1990), Unification Phonology:another look at "synthesis-by-rule".
COL-ING 90, Vol.
3, 79-84.
ACL.
(1991), Prosodic structure, parameter-setting and ID/LP grammar.
S. Bird (ed.
),Declarative Perspectives on Phonology.
Edimburgh Working Papers in Cognitive Science,Vol.
7, 65-78.Dirksen, A.
& H. Quen~ (in press), Prosodicanalysis: the next generation.
V.J.
vanHeuven& L. Pols (eds.
), Analysis and synthe-sis of speech: strategic research towards high-quality text-to- speech generation.
Mouton deGruyter, Berlin.Gazdar, G. & C. Mellish (1989), Natural lan-guage processing in prolog: an introduction tocomputational linguistics.
Addison-Wesley,Workingham.Gussenhoven, C. (1984), On the grammar andsemantzcs of sentence accents.
Foris Pnbl.,1)ordrecht.Hirschberg, J.
(1990), Accent and discoursecontext: assigning pitch accent in syntheticspeech, in Proceedings of the IEEE, 73-11,1589-1601.Ladd, D.R.
(1978), The structure of into-national meaning.
Indiana University press,Bloomington.Quen~, H. & A. Dirksen (1990), A comparisonof natural, theoretical and automatically de-rived accentuations of Dutch texts.
G. BaillyC.
Benoit (eds.
), Proceedings of the ESCAworkshop on speech synthesis, Autrans, 137-140.Quend, H. & R. Kager (1992), The derivationof prosody for text- to-speech from prosodicsentence structure.
Computer, speech andlanguage, 6, 77-98ACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOVr 1992 8 6 9 PROC.
OF COLING-92, N^wrEs, Auo.
23-28, 1992
