Incrementing Discourse with the Negation RelationMegan MoserUniversity of Pittsburgh, LRDC 8063939 O'Hara StreetPittsburgh, PA 15260, USAmoser@pogo.
i sp .p i t  t .edu1 Negat ion  as a re la t ionLogical translations of English sentences typicallytranslate sentential negation as a unary propositionaloperator.
In this paper, I develop the processing aspectof a rather different ontological perspective on nega-tion: namely, negation as a two-place relation.
Thenegation relation takes one argument, its associate, andrelates it to the rest of the sentence which forms the sec-ond argument, its frame.
The truth conditions of therelation are equivalent to those of the wide-scope unaryoperator.
However, sentences with the same truth con-ditions may be logically distinct due to their distinctarguments to the relation.
For example, (1) and (2)have identical truth conditions, but the distinct logicalstructures hown.
(1) Ann didn't give TIlE INK to Bea\[n ?\] \[a the ink I \[r Az(Ann gave z to Bea)l(2) Ann didn't give the ink to BEA\[n ?~1 \[A Bea\] \[~, Ax(Ann gave the ink x)\]For the purposes here, sentential negation is a neg-ative element in auxiliary verb position, either the neg-ative infection n't or the free not in that position.
Sen-tences with other negative forms are not under con-sideration, even tlmugh they may meet other defini-tions for seutential negation, e.g.
those proposed byKlima (1964) and Jackeudoff (1969).The associate to negation may be distinguishedfrom both stress-focus, a constituent which is markedby relative phonetic prominence, and information-focus, a constituent which conveys new informationor makes the point of the utterance.
Most commonly,information-focus and associates are marked by tile useof stress-focus, tlowever, all three of these things areoften called "focus," suggesting an incorrect identifi-catimL The distinction is necessary because it is notthe ease that information-focus or associates are alwaysmarked by stress-focus.Briefly, I compare the negation relation witlt tworelated proposals, that of lIorn (1989) and the Pragueschool (lIaji~ovll 1984, Sgall et al 1986).
lforn arguesthat tile Aristotelian system of predicate term logic,which analyzes negation as a mode of predication, is amore accurate formulation of linguistic negation.
Ac-cording to this mode analysis, sentential negation ex-presses that the predicate does not hold of the subjectfor any reason, including, e.g., reference failures.
As aresult~ the mode analysis is identical in truth conditionsto the unary propositional operator with wide scope.However, it is distinct ill structure.
Tile mode analy-sis of negation involves a linking of two elements, sub-ject and predicate, to form a distinct kind of element,a sentence or proposition.
This contrasts with unarynegatiml which takes one element, its scope which is aproposition, and forms the same kind of element.
Illeffect, the mode analysis claims that the scope of negwtion is structured as subject and predicate and thatnegation is a way to link these two pieces.Ill propositional logic, the unary operator is all ex-ternal connective, in the same category with and andor.
2~ruth fimctionally, it takes a single formula as anargument and inverts its truth value.
In this logic,then, the affirmative is more basic than the negativebecause the negative takes the affirmative as an ar-gmnent.
The affirmative may be formulated indepen-dently of the negative but not vice versa.
Also, theunary negation may apply to the entire sentence to asubformula.
Under the mode analysis, negation is notderivative on affirmation.
Rather, the two form a cat-egory, the possible ways of linking subject and predi-cate.
Also, the mode negation has a fixed scope.
Assupport for the mode analysis over the unary analysis,Horn points out that negation does not iterate freelyand that languages never have aegation in the exter-nal syntactic position which would suggest he unaryoperator.The relation analysis 1 am advocating is a gener-alization of the mode analysis.
The negation relationlinks two pieces to form a sentence, but these two piecesare not constrained to be the subject and predicate.Without a stress-focus, negation relates subject andpredicate.
If there is a stress~focus, negation relates theALTES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt3"r 1992 3 1 7 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992stress-focus to the rest of the sentence.
The same argu-ments which support he mode analysis over the unaryanalysis also hold for the relation analysis.
The nega-tion relation may select any constituent as its associate,a selection which also determines the frame.
However,the truth conditions remain equivalent o those of awide-scope unary operator; they do not vary with thedifferent argument pairs.
The negation relation intrO-duces a logical structure of two arguments.
All theways of selecting the arguments from a sentence willresult in equivalent ruth conditions.
If we continueto use the term "scope" to mean the argument of theunary operator, the negation relation imposes a logicalstructure on the scope of the unary negation.Work in the Prague school on negation (llajit2ov~.
1984, SgaU et al 1986), explores the inter-action between negation and the information struc-ture.
The framework developed by these authors cen-ters around the relationship of each utterance to theongoing discourse.
Communicative dynamism, a con-cept developed by Firbas, is a gradient property of alinguistic element, its ability to move the communica-tion forward.
For this aspect of interpretation, the rep-resentation of the sentence is linearized so that all theelements of the sentence are arranged in a systematicordering according to their communicative dynamism.With respect to this ranking of the elements of thesentence, a topic-focus articulation is defined which di-vides the sentence into a portion which is contextuallybound and non-bound.
Thus, while communicative dy-namism is gradient, there is a boundary in this order-ing, To the left of the boundary are the contextuallybound elements of the topic and to the right of theboundary are the non-bound elements of the focus.
Theboundary has the same significance as the distinctionbetween ground (= Praguean topic) and information-focus (-- Praguean focus) discussed in ?3.
This hound-ary is crucial to determining the scope of negation.Stated broadly, the central Praguean claim aboutnegation is one which I am defending: "... it is primar-ily the relationship between \[ground\] and \[information-\]focus that is negated: In the unmarked ease, a neg-ative sentence states that its \[information-\]focus doesnot hold about its \[ground\]."
(Sgall et al 1986:83).However, this work claims that the boundary betweenground and information-focus defines the scope of nega-tion rather than an argument structure.
The contentin the ground falls outside the scope of negation andso will be logically entailed.
Wide scope negation is,for these authors, only possible when a sentence lacksa ground.
Contrary to this claim, negation can havewider scope than something in ground.
In (3), everydog is clearly contextually hound, yet it is inside thescope of the negation.
(3) Who walked every dog?Ricki didn't walk every dog(4) Who didn't Ricki give A noNE to?Ricki didn't give a bone to IlER DOGOne difference between tile relation analysis and theothers mentioned is that negation can have an associatewhich is independent of stress-focus or information-focus.
For example, in (4), negation has the directobject as its associate, while the indirect object is theinformation-focus and a stress-focus.
The negation re-lation in this example is embedded in another elation-associate-frame structure.
These examples will not beof concern here.2 Semantic analysisBesides negation and affirmation, focus particles uchas only and even express relations between an associateand frame.
Here I summarize the unified semantic anal-ysis of these particles given by Moser (1992b).
To be-gin with, consider only and its interaction with stress-focus.
A variation in stress-focus in an only sentencecan lead to different ruth conditions.
Note the differ-ent truth conditions for (5) and (6).
Since there is nodiscernible difference between a stress-focus in an onlysentence and one in another context, this systematiceffect of stress-focus on truth-conditions supports theinclusion of stress-focus as part of the formal structureof any sentence, as argued for by Klein (1991) and aswill be assumed here.
Stress-focus i effectively a struc-tural feature along with the position features, the moretraditional structural features relating to placement ina syntax tree.
There is a formal difference betweentwo sentences which have exactly the same sequenceof words based on how they are stressed, a differencewhich is realized by a particular prosodic feature, thatof stress.
Thus, (5) and (6) are not the same sentencewith different intonation, rather, they are formally dif-ferent sentences.In addition to a stress-focus associate, only may oc-cur without a stress-focus as in (7).
In these eases,its associate is the adjacent constituent.
The relationanalysis applies independently of how oaly's associateis determined, through position or stress.
The same ob-servations hold true for the associate of negation, butwithout the truth conditional consequences noted for(5) and (6).
(5) Ann only gave Trim INK to Bea\[1~ unique-El \[A ink\] \[F Ax(Ann gave z to Bea)\](6) Ann only gave the ink to BEA\[a unique-El \[a Bea\] \[e Ax( inn  gave ink to x)\](7) Ann gave only the ink to BEAAcq'ns DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt3T 1992 3 1 8 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992A relation and its associate, regardless of whetherdetermined by position or stress, may be viewed asstructuring the logical proposition.
That  is, therelation-associate-frame structure is a formal object,an instaBce of the structured meanings discussed byCresswell (1985) and yon Stechow (1988).
Tile inter-pretation of these relation-associate-frame structures ia three step process.
First, a set of alternatives to theassociate is determined.
These alternatives are thingswhich are similar to the associate in contextually rele-vant ways.
To determine tile alternatives, the relevantsyntactic-semantic ype is inferred from the ~sociate.Then, starting from the instances of this type, theremay be further contextual restrictions on the membersof the alternatives.
For (5), the syntactic-semantic typemight be art supplies.
Then, tile context could be re-strictive so that only the ink and paint are in tile setof alternatives.
The second step in the interpretationis that tile frame is used to select a subset of these al-ternatives, call it the frame set.
In this case, the frameset will be the subset of tile alternative supplies whichAnn gave Bea.
Third, the only relation nmst hold be-tween the associate and the frame set in order for thesentence to be true.
For (5) to be true, the frame set,those art supplies which Ann gave to Bea, will have theink as their uniqBe element.The two-place relations expressed by focus particlesdo not have their arguments rigidly typed.
Rather, theassociate may be of any semantic type and the framewill be a set of elements of that type.
Semautically,these particles deuote element-to-set relations.
Defin-ing them this way allows for all associate that is eithera stress-focus or an adjacent constituent.
The generaldefinition of focus-particles a  element-to-set relationsraises the question of how the associate, the elementargument to the relation, is determined.
The answerl suggest is that the position of the focus particle de-termines an environment for the associate.
Then, theassociate will be the closest stress-focus in that envi-ronment or it will be the entire environment.
Thus,the syntactic relationslfip between particle and asso-ciate, stress and locality all play a role in determiningtile associate of a focus particle.3 In fo rmat ion  s t ruc tureIn this section, I note the similarity between therelation-associate-frame structure just discussed andinformation structure.
Conceptually, informationstructure is the differentiation of the content of asentence according to tile speaker's beliefs about tileheater's knowledge or current awareness.
Chafe (1976)describes this in terms of the metaphor of packaging,noting that the same logical content can be packaged iuvarious ways depending on what it is being used for.
In-formation structure is a kind of non-truth-conditionalmeaning which is inherently pragmatic because it isdefined with reference to speaker, hearer and context.However, while the meaning conveyed involves contex-tual factors, it does not follow that tile means of con-veying it does.
That  is, while information structure x-presses how a sentence fits in tile context, it is possiblethat context is not a factor in determining the informa-tion structure itself.
Recent work by Vallduvl (1990)suggests that information structure lie viewed as oneaspect of the fornlal structure of a sentence, on a parwith predicate-argument structure and logical form.
'/'he major constituents of information structure arethe information-focus, the portion of content which thespeaker deems will be informative or will make thepoint of the sentence, and the ground, the remainder ofthe content wltich is assumed to be uncontroversial andserves ms a vehicle for the information-focus.
As a sub-part, the ground contains the link, tile particular entitywhich the utterance is about.
The features which markthe information-focus are the same position and stressfeatures described for determining aLL associate.
In fact,in Moser (1992a), I propose the major constituents ofinformation structure be extended to include a rela-tion between information-focus and ground, making ita tripartite structure.
As evidence for this extension, Inote the tendency of negation and only to accompanythe information-focus in constructions which mark in-formation structure by placing tile information-focus inan isolated position.
Thus, information structure is aninstance of a relation-associate-frame structure.While the structure and formal marking of infor-mation structure are identical to the relation struc-tures already discussed, the interpretation is not.
Thesemantic interpretation by generating alternatives, e-lecting a frame set and checking the relation betweenassociate and frame set expresses nothing about thehearer's awareness.
Instead, information strncture is alladditional interpretation of a relation structure, madesimtdtaneously with the semantic one.
Vallduvi pro-poses that the pragmatic interpretation of informationstructure is effectively instructions to the hearer forupdating mental ilt cards for the entities in the dis-course.
Here I take a slightly ditferent perspective, i.e.that tile instructions are concerned with updating a filecard representation which is external to the discour~participants.The link specifies the address at which the informa-tion of the utterance is to be stored, so its pragmaticinterpretation is a ?~O-TO instruction.
The groundspecifies content which is currently known or underdiscussion, a command to RETRIEVE all open propo-sition front a file card.
Finally, I modify Vallduvi'sinstructions to allow for a relation constituent as partof information structure.
Rather than SUBSTITUTE tileinformation-focus into the ground, the more generalAc'Yzs nE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Aofrr 1992 3 1 9 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NAIwrEs, AUG. 23-28, 1992RELATE information-focus to ground using a specificrelation is used.
Consider the example in (8).
Eachconstituent of information structure is interpreted byan instruction; the link is used to locate a file card,the ground is used find an open proposition which isexpected to be there, and the information-focus is usedto fill in the open proposition depending on what re-lation is specified.
The result is a single, unstructuredproposition on the appropriate file card.
If the infor-mation structure used to convey this proposition weredifferent, the file card update would be done differently,although the same proposition would result.
(8) The girls published THE BOOK\[R E\]\[a the book\] \[v \[L the girls\] published x\](i) GO-To(the girls)(ii) RETRIEVE(_ published x)(iii) RELATE(E, the book, x)There are two ways in which these instructions areinadequate.
First, the ground may require distinct in-terpretations depending on the syntactic onstructionused.
Prince (1986) discusses a variety of construc-tions which mark an open proposition as presupposed.The different constructions vary in the way their openproposition is presupposed, however.
Second, this isa literal interpretation of information structure whichdoes not address the more complex possibilities for itsinteraction with the context.4 D iscourse  incrementat ionThe representation of the ongoing discourse has thestructure of a set of file cards.
One file card is main-tained for each entity under discussion, a catalogueof the predications made about that entity.
The dis-course content which is being negotiated is the sumof information on all the file cards.
File cards are ametaphor for a particular organization of information,one which has been independently suggested by authorsconcerned with several areas of inquiry in cognitive sci-ence.
Each file card is arranged with two parts: (i) amarker or index, an element of pure reference distinctfrom any particular predication about the entity, and(ii) a list of unstructured propositions, either affirma-tive or negative.Ina  file card representation f discourse, there is anatural distinction between the function of NPs, whichpick out file cards, and the function of the sentencewhich NPs are embedded in, which specify predica-tions to go on the file cards.
For each NP in an ut-terance, a file card is activated, i.e.
associated with adiscourse marker with the predicates contained in theNP.
The rules for this activation make use of the NP'sform as pronoun, definite or indefinite, and will not bediscussed here.
The distinction between the NP func-tion as file card activators and the rest of the sentenceas adding predications to the file card is a kind of pro-cessing distinction.
No difference in truth conditionsarise from the autonomy of file card activation.
How-ever, Prince (1990) suggests ome linguistic evidencefor this processing distinction.
In Moser (1992a), I sug-gest that this distinction in negative sentences may helpaccount for the tendency of referring expressions to beunderstood as outside the scope of negation.
Negativesentences followed by a denial of existence are arguedto be cases of constructing file cards for entities whichdo not exist.Once the file cards are activated, the process of theirupdating takes the structured proposition and entersthe appropriate fact(s) (=unstructured proposition) onthe activated file cards.
In the process of this updating,the pragmatic interpretation of tile relation structureas information structure arises and may produce infer-ences which connect o the preceding discourse.
Theresult of this updating must be at least the appropriateentries on the file cards to reflect the semantics of thesentence.
A model theoretic semantics for a file cardrepresentation f discourse is defined by Helm (1982) interms of a function for embedding the set of file cardsin a model.
Assuming this embedding function, tiletruth conditions of relation structures are sufficientlyspecified by entries on the file cards.Example (9) will be used to illustrate discourse in-crementation.
Since the activation of file cards takesplace independently, the structured proposition fur theincrement is (10).
Assume that the file cards for thecontext are as shown in Figure 1.
First, a set of alter-natives to the information-focus is constructed.
Recallthat this consists of a set of contextually relevant thingswhich match the associate (=information-focus) in se-mantic type.
In this example, the set in (11) will bederived.
The update to file cards may require these al-ternatives.
Based on the earlier discussion, the initialformulation of the update is the set of instructions in(12).
The GO-TO instruction specifies that the file cardto be updated is d2 and will not be of further concernhere.
(9) WWII  Veteran's description of Germans' surren-der to his battalion by the EIbe River:They swam lhe river lo surrender to usthousands of then*-They didn't want to surrender to TRE RUSSIANS(10) \[n ?1 \[a d41 \[~ ax (\[L as\] want t .
.
.
.
r. to~)\](11) {the Russians, the British, the Americans}(12) (i) Co-To(d2)(ii) RETRIEVE(_. want to surrender to x)(iii) R\]~LATE(~, d4, x)A~ DE COLING-92, NAN'rEs, 23-28 ^ OUT 1992 3 2 0 PROC.
oF COLING-92, NANTES, AUO.
23-28, 1992dlS's battalion __d~Germans ___ _  SWaIU river to sure to Illthousands of __Figure 1: File cards prior to incrementation with (9)Speaking enerally, the update instructions expressa literal information structure interpretation.
That  is,retrieving the ground from tile prior discourt~e or fromthe healer's knowledge store and supplying a value forits variable correspond closely with the questiml testwhidl is often cited ,as a diagnostic for information-focus.
The ground is that part of the utterance whichcordd have been all inunediately preceding question andthe information-focus is the answer to that question.For example, (13) could answer the question shownbut not (14).
Providing the answer to a question is avery literal characterization f being informative.
How-ever, the content of the information-focus is perhapsnot directly informative and the content of the groundis perhaps not directly known.
Instead, in virtue ofbeing presented ,as information-focus and ground, thefunction of these two constituents may be achieved in-directly through inferencing.
Content which is pre-sented as informative \[nay give rise to inferences whichmake it informative.
Similarly for tile ground, infer-ences may arise which transform unknown content intoknown content because the information was presentedby ttle speaker as being known.
Given tile literal inter-pretation of information-focus and ground, and givenparticular content which is inconsistent with this lit-eral interpretation, hearers will repair the discrepancythrough inferencing.
Another way to state this point isthat ttle information-focus conteat, the ground contentand perhaps the relation will support distinct kinds ofinferences.
This is the central idea of Wilson and Sper-her (1979).
(13) Who did they surrender to?They surrendered to TIlE ~USSIANS(14) Who surrendered to tile t~ussians?As was mentioned, the ground is an open proposi-tion which may be presupposed in a variety of senses.Prince (1986) mentions everal distinct kinds of presup-position which arise front various syntactic construe-tions: explicit in prior discourse, inferrable from priordiscourse, currently ill hearer's consciousness alld gen-erally known.
The retrieval of an open proposition froma file card, discussed earlier as tile interpretation ofground, corresponds only to tile first kind of presup-position.
One modification required, theu, is that theretrieval should be from a particular source depend-ing on the construction used, either from the file cards,from the hearer's awareness or from tile hearer's generalknowledge.
Assume that these other sources are avail-able and are also structured as tile cards.
Further, as-sume that tile ground of canonical sentences such as (9)shmdd be retrieved as inferrable from prior discourse..For this example, the retrieval will be successful.
Tileprior discourse stalfiishes that the Germans were sur-rendering to the speaker's battalion and from this itcall be inferred that who they wanted to surrender tois under discussion.Ill many cases, the retrieval of the open proposi-tion front the required source fails.
The simplest wayto address tile failure is accommodation (Lewis 1979),adding tile cxpeeted ground to the source.
In somecases~ accommodation is not appropriate anti an infer-ence nlust be made to connect he ground to the source.These inferences arise from the grormd content heeanscit is intended to be recognized a~s the grmmd, i.e.
as arestatement ofor a connection to the discourse context.\[u (15) (adapted from the Brown corpus), for in-stauce, a news conlrnentator suggests the sarcastic re-ply to Khrushchev.
As shown in (16), the subject isthe informatiun-focus.
The literal interpretation of theground is that someone playing the marimba with hisshoes ill tile UN is retrievable as inferrable from theprior discourse.
This retrieval will fail.
Accommo-dating the failure would add marimba playing to thediscourse as if it had been discussed earlier.
But thisaction cannot be construed as being under discussion.Because playing the marimba with shoes is marked msbeing under discussion, it requires an inference to con-nect it with what actually is under discussion, con-frontations with Khrl, shdmv.
Marimba playing mustbe recognized as a metaphor for table banging.
In or-tier to make sense of this comment, the hearer recog-nizes, in virtue nfthe fact that it is presented as groundcontest and it cannot be accounnodated, that he doesknow of an incident which could be described that way.The hearer will make the analogy between playing themarimba and banging on the table with a shoe andthen accounnodate he ground by assuming that theshoe hanging incident is under discussion.
(15) Khrushchev: l'bols!
What do you think you aredoing?Cornmenta~or: WE aren't playing the marimbawith our shoes in the United Natioas(16) \[R q\] \[A we\] \[,..
Ax (x play the n,arimba etc.
)\]This discussion suggests sew~ral components neededto interpret he ground.
Since wlmt is on the file cardsare simple propositions rather than open propositions,it nmst be specitled what it means to retrieve an opent)roposition from the file card.
"file simplest view toadopt is that it will be a proposition which matches theopen one, except that the.
variable is instantiated withAcrEs DE COLING-92, NAN'rES, 23-28 nour 1992 3 2 1 PROC, OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992one of the alternatives or a general term such as some-thing.
What  is inferrable from prior discourse needsto be specified.
Further, a mechanism for rejecting ac-commodations and inferring another ground is needed.With these components, the ground is interpreted by:*RETRIEVE ground from source(source specified by construction)*if that fails, accommodate ground*if that fails, infer other ground and accommodate itThe semantics of the information-focus and its re-lation to ground are reflected as one or more entries onthe file card.
One entry will be, in either polarity, theproposition formed by substituting the information-focus into the ground.
The polarity of this entry andwhat other entries should be made depend on the re-lation.
The affirmative and negative relations pecifythe single entry in different polarities, while the onlyrelation specifies an entry for each alternative to theinformation-focus.
Using examples which minimallycontrast with (9), the file card entries are in (17)-(19).
(17) They wanted to surrender to TIlE RUSSIANS_ want to surrender to d4(18) They didn't want to surrender to THE RUSSIANS"~_ want to surrender to d4(19) They only wanted to surrender to TIlE I:~USSIANS_ want to surrender to d4-~_ want to surrender to dn (=tile British)-1_ want to surrender to dn (=the Americans)(20) They even wanted to surrender to TIlE RUSSIANS\[R least-likely, non-unique-~\]\[a d4\]\[r Ax(d2 want to surrender to ~)\]In addition to these logical entries, there aretwo kinds of impiicatures based on the relation ofinformation-focus to ground.
Becanse implicatures donot affect truth conditions, they are special entries onthe file cards.
That  is, the embedding fimetion whichdetermines whether the discourse is true in a modelmust ignore the special implicature ntries.
First, con-ventional implicatures are contributed by focus parti-cles sudl a.s even or also.
These particles are analyzedas urodifiers or comments on the logical relation.
Even,for example, contributes the two modifiers shown in(20).
As a result, one regular and two special entriesgo on the d2 file card.
Second, scalar implicatures(Ilirschberg 1985) may relate the alternatives to theframe.
Contextual factors determine whether scalarimplicatures should be generated.
For instance, if thealternatives are ranked in a relevant way, then it isimplicated that stronger values than the associate donot hold.
Or, if the relation of the alternatives to theground is salient, then it is implicated that the alterna-tives instantiate the ground with opposite polarity.
Forexample, (21) has the information structure shown in(22).
The alternatives to the associate will be the setin (23).
The relation of the alternatives to the groundhas been explicitly questioned, and so ttle implicationthat the alternatives cannot instantiate the ground willarise.
(21) Q: Do you have Lana Moro or Bernat yarns?A: We have CASSINO(cited in Hirsehberg 1985:58)(22) \[n El \[a Cassino\] \[F ),x(we have x)\](23) {Lana M .
.
.
.
Bernat, Ca.ssino)Now consider the pragmatic omponent of relatingthe information-focus to the ground.
Pragmatically,tile interpretation is as the informative content.
Aswas noted earlier, the notion of informativeness ex-pressed by the update instructions i too literal for alleases.
It is the same notion which underlies the ques-tion test as a diagnostic for information-focus.
Underthis analysis, the earlier example has the informationstructure it does because it could be used to answerthe question in (24).
Arguably, however, it is beingused to answer the question in (25).
The literal viewof information-focus must be extended from supplyingan unknown value to making the point of the utter-ance, which may require inferencing ( Wilson and Sper-bet 1979).
In some cases, the point will be to supply thehearer with a previously unknown value (or non-value)to the ground.
In other cases, the information-focusmay be literally uninformative and motivate inferences.While the general mechanism which generates the in-ferences that supply tile point of the utterance fromthe relation and information-focus is ill-understood, itis related to the inferences that specify the coherencerelations discussed by Hobbs (1985) and Mann andThompson (1987).
That  is, making the point of theutterance overlaps with making the utterance coherentwith the immediately previous discourse.
(24) Who did they want to surrender to 9.They didn't want to surrender to THE RUSSIANS(25) Why did they swim the river to surrender to us?One fairly well-understood class of these inferencesis the scalar implicatures mentioned above.
Note thatthe exchange in (21) is entirely felicitous in a set-ting where the clerk stands in front of a conspicuous,clearly marked display of Cassino yarn.
The alternativebrand's filling the open proposition is marked as infor-mative, although in the assumed setting it cannot pos-sibly be literally informative.
The information-focusdoes not directly provide the information requested.Therefore, the customer infers that this was marked asthe point because it is the most the clerk could say.Tile customer, based on the information-focus contentAcr~ DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 ^ ofrr 1992 3 2 2 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992and the fact that it was marked as information-focus,infers that the direct answer to her question is negative.In short, the relation-a.ssociate-frame structureswhich underlie sentences receive both a semantic anda pragmatic interpretation i the procesa of discourseincrement a ion.
The truth conditions are expressed a~a list of predications on tile cards.
The pragmatic in-terpretation has both a literal and au extended ver-sion.
The literal interpretation is that the ground isunder discussion and the information-focus' relation toit is informative.
When the content of the informationstructure constituents cannot be construed this way ina particular context, the pragmatic interpretation is ex-tended through inferencing.
Front this perspective, theinformation structure serves the function of differenti-ating the total content into increments of informationfor the purpose of inferencing.
Given an utterance ofthe same basic sentence in the same context, a shift inits information-focus will affect the iufereuces it sup-ports.References\[1\] W.L.
Chafe.
Givenness, contrastiveness, definite-ness, subjects, topics, and point of view.
In C. Li,editor, Subject and topic, pages 25-55.
New York:Academic Press, 1976.\[2\] M. Cresswell.
Structured Meanings.
Cmnbridge,MAr MIT Press, 1985.\[3\] E. llaji~ov;i. Presupposition and allegation revis-ited.
Journal of Pragmatics, 8:155-67, 1984.\[4\] I. lteinL The Semantics of Definite and IndefiniteNoun Phrases.
PhD thesis, U. of Massachusetts,1982.\[5\] J, tIirschberg.
A Theory of Scalar" lmplicatuT~.PhD thesis, U. of Pennsylvania, 1985.\[6\] J. ttobbs.
On the coherence and structure of dis-course.
Tedmical Report CSI, I-85-37, Center forthe Study of Language and Information, 1985.\[7\] L. Horn.
A Natural History of Negation.
Chicago:U. of Chicago Press, 1989.\[8\] R. Jackendoff.
An interpretive theory of negation.bbundations of Langua9e , 5:218-41, 1969.\[9\] U. Klein.
Focus: An idea in motion.
Journal ofSemantics, 8:71-90, 1991.\[10\] E. Klima.
Negation in english.
In Fodor and Katz,editors, The Structure of Language, pages 246323.
Englewood Cliffs, N J: Prentice-lfall, 1964.\[11\] D. Lewis.
Scorekeeping in a language game.
Jour-nal of Philosophical Logic, 8:339-59, 1979.\[12\] W. Mann and S. Thompson.
Rhetorical structuretheory: A theory of text organization.
TechnicalReport ISI/RS-87=190, Information Sciences Insti-tute, 1987.\[13\] M. Moser.
l~beus particles: Their definition andrelational structure.
In Papers firm the 28th Art-nual Meeting of the Chicago Linguistics Society.Chicago: Chicago U.
Press, 1992. qb appear.\[14\] M. Moser.
The Negation Relation: Semantic andpragmatic aspects of a relational analysis of sen-tcnlial negation.
Phi) thesis, U. of Pennsylvania,1992.\[15\] E. Prince.
On the syntactic marking of pre-supposed open propositions.
In Papers fromthe Parasession of the 22nd Annual Meeting ofthe Chicago Linguistics Society, pages 208-22.Chicago: Chicago U.
Press, 1986.\[16\] E. Prince.
Syntax and discourse: a look at resump-rive pronouns.
In Paper,+ from the Parasession ofthe 161h Aanual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguis-tics Society, pages 482-97, 1990.\[17\] P. Sgall, E. llaji~ov,5,, and J. I'anevov?.
The Mean-in9 of the Sentence in its Semantic and P~agmalicAspects.
Dordrecht: Reidel, 1986.\[18\] A. you Stedtow.
Focusing and background opera-tors.
Unpublished ms. from Universit/i,t Konstanz,1988\[19\] E. Vallduvi.
The htformation Component.
Phi)thesis, U. of Pennsylvania, 1990.\[20\] D. Wilson and 1).
Sperber.
Ordered entailments:An alternative to presupposition theories.
In Ohand l)inneen, editors, Syntax and Semantics XI:Presupposilion, pages 299 323.
New York: Aca-demic Press, 1979.AcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOI~'r 1992 3 2 3 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992
