AUTOMATIC PROOFREADING OF' FROZEN PIIRASES IN GERMANRAI ,F KI';S\[';, FRIEDR1CH I)UDI)A, MARIANNE KUGI,F,RTA Triumph-Adler AGTA Research EFFfwther Str.
21211-851111 Nuremberg 8(1Gerlnanye-mail: ralf@triumph-adler.deAbstract\["rozen phrases are introduced as a new levelof automatic proofieadiltg in between thestm,dard level of spelling verification tflist)lated words and tile levcl of grammarchecking.
The design and theiulplenlentatioll of a correspondingproofleading system are described in detail.1 IntroductionEuropean languages contain thousands (ifwhat Mauriee Gross calls "frozen" or"compound words" (G ross, 1986).
111 contrastto "free forms", frozen words - though beingseparable into several words and suffixes -lack syntactic and/or semantic omtlosition-ality.
This "lack of conlpositionality isapparent fiom lexical restrictions" (at night,but: *at day, *at evening, etc.)
as well as "bythe impossibility of inserting material that isa pliori plausil~lc?'
(*at {coming, tlresent,cokt, dark} night) (Gross, 1986).Now, these kinds of co-occurrencerestrictions (ltaxris, 19701 determine notonly the concrete lexical composition of anindividual conlptltnld word but also itsspelling.Consider, as an example, the Gernlan noun"Bezug" which-like any other nolni illGerman- starts with a capital letter andoccurs as a free form--e.g, in contexts like"mit Bezug anl"-such that its co-(iccnrrentscan w~ry freely.
There is a single exceptk/n tothis rule, nalnely the phrase "in bczug auff,which is entirely flozen, in tile sense that itexcludes any variation of its tlarls tit'structure, and which, by the sanle token,restricts the spelling of the noun to lowercase.t:or examples like this we introduce the term"frozen phrases" as referring to (the sub-classof) those frozen words that are compoundsof several words.
As Zimmermanll(Zimmcrmann, 1987) points out for multLwords in general, frozen phrases are clearly(~ttt of scope of standard spelling correctionsystems due to tile fact that these systemsctlcck for isolated words Olfly and disregardthc respective contexts.
Yet, as Gross (Gross,1986) indicates, at least tile entirely andnearly entirely tl-OZell Rirms can berecognized and compared with the hel ) ofsimple string operations.
Thus, these kinds off roze l l  phi%lSCS are accessible t(1 tile lllet\[lOdSof classical autolnatic proofleadillg.Folk)wing Gross (Gross, 1986) andZimlnermann (Zimmermanll, 1987), weprt/posc to further extend standard spellingcorrection systems onto the level of frozenphrases by simply lnaking thenl capable oftreating more than a single word at a time.This implies that we arrive at a context-sensitive system.Focusing (m individttal co-occt, rrences(Harris, 19701, the proposed extenskln willbe a conservatiw: one, ill tile sense that itrequires just widening the scope of the stringmatching/comparing operations thatclassically are used in spelling correctionsystenls.
No deep and time-cousuminganalysis, like palsiilg, is involved.Restricting the systenl that way makes ourapproach different fr(nn tile one consideredin (bLimon and Herz, 1991), where a contextsensitive spelling velificati(lli s proposed tobe done with the help of "local constraintsauttnnata (I.CAs)" which process contextualCOilstraillls on the level of lexical or syntacticcategories rather than on the basic level ofstrings, hi fact, proof-reading with LCAsrather anlounts to genuine granlnlarchecking aim as such Imltmgs to a differentand higher level of lmlguage checking.ACRES DE COLING-92, NANrl.
;S, 23-28 A(:@I 1992 1 0 2 9 I'ROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 19922 Phenomeno logyThe essential feature of the new level ofautomatic proofreading is that lexicalized co-occurrence restrictions determine theorthography of whole phrases beyond thescope of what can be accepted or rejected onthe basis of isolated words alone.For German, these restrictions determine,among other things, whether or not certainforms (1) begin with an upper or lower caseletter; (2) have to be separated by (2.1)blank, (2.2) hyphen, (2.3) or not at all; (3)combine with certain other forms; or even(4) influence punctuation.
Examples are:(t) lch laufe eis.
versusIch laufe aufdem Eis.Er diirfle Bankrott machen, versusEr dfirfle bankrott se&.
(2.1) Sic kann nicht Fahrradfahren, versus(2.3) Sic kann nicht radfahren.
(2.1) Es war bitter kalt.
versus(2.3) Es war ein bitterkalter Tag.
(2.2) Er liebt lch-Romane, versus(2.3) Er liebt Romane in lchforn,.
(3) BetonblOcke vs. *Betonblocks versusHiluserblocks vs. *HduserblOcke(4) Er rauchte~ ohne daft sic dawm wugte.vcrsus*Er rauchlc ohne~ daft sic daVOll wuBle.3 System Des ignLike conventional spelling correction ofisolated words, proofreading of frozenphrases is a lexicon-based process.However, while in conventional spellingcorrection "referencing a dictionary ofcorrectly spelled words" (Frisch and Zamora,1988) is standard, proofreading of thehigher-level orthographic featnresmentioned in 2 above can be done on thebasis of a lexicon that encodes thecorresponding error patterns directly.Thus, each entry in the system lexicon ismodelled as a quintuple <W,L,R,C,E>specifying an error pattern of a (multi-) wordW for which a correction C will be proposedaccompanied by an explanation E just incase a given match of W against somepassage in the text nnder scrutiny differssignificantly from C and the - possibly empty- left and right contexts L and R of W alsomatch the environment of W's counterpart inthe text.Disregarding E for a moment, this istantalnotmt to saying that each such record isinterpreted as a string rewriting nileW- ->C / L Rrephtcing W (e.g.
: Bezug) by C (e.g.
: bezug)in the environment 1_, R (e.g.
: in auf).The form of these productions can best becharacterized with an eye to the Chomskyhierarchy as unrestricted, since we can haveany non-mill number of symbols on the LHSreplaced by any number of symbols on theRHS, possibly by null (Partee et al, 1990).With an eye to semi-Thue o1 extendedaxiomatic systems one could say that alinearly ordered sequence of strings W, C1,C2, ..., Cm is a derivatkm of Cm iff (1) W is a(faulty) string (in the text to be corrected)and (2) each Ci follows from the immediatelypreceding string by one of the productionslisted in the lexicon (Partee et al, 1990).Thus, theoretically, a single mistake can becorrected by applying a whole sequence ofproductions, though in practice the default isclearly that a correction be done in a singlederivational step, at least as long as thesystem is just operating on strings and not onadditional non-terlnimll sylnbols.Occurrences of W, L, and R in a text arerecognized by pattern matching techniques.An error pattern W ignores the particnlarlyerror-prone aspects npper/k)wer case andword separator (sec the examples in 2above).
It thus matches both the correct andincorrect spellings with respect to thesefeatures.Beside wildcards ff)r characters, like "*", apattern for W, l J, or R may contain alsowildcards for words allowing, for example,the specification of a maxinml distance of Lor R with respect to W. Since the types oferrors discussed here only occur withinACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES.
23-28 AObq' 1992 1 0 3 0 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992seuteuces, such a distant match has to berestricted by the sentence boundaries.
Thus,by having the system operate seutencewisc,any left or right context is naturally restrictedto be some string within the same sentenceas W mr to be at bonndary of that sentence(e.g.
: a punctuation mark).Any left or right context is either a positiveor at negative one, i.e., its COUlpOneuts arehomogeneously either required or forbiddenin order for the corresponding rule to fire.
Sofar it has not been necessary to allow tku ?mixed modes within it left or right context.In case a correction C is proposed to theuser, additionally at message will be displayedto him identifying the reason why C is correctrather than W. l)epending on the user'sknowledge of tile language underinvestigation, he can take this either as anopporttulity to learn or rather as a help tierdeciding whether to finally accept or rejectthe proposal.There are two kinds of explanations,absolute and conditional ones.
Whereasabsolute rules indicate that the system hasnecessary and sufficient evidence fi~r W'sdeviance, there clearly are cases whereeither W or C could he correct and thisquestion cannot be decided on the basis ofthe system's lexical infl)rmation alone, hithese cases, a conditiol,al o1 if-thenexplanatkm is given to the user offering ahigher-level deciskm criterion which thesystem itself is unable to apply.Take, as an example, the sentenceDieser Fihn hetrifft exit und Jung.which clearly allows for two readings, ouewhich renders "Alt und Jmlg" as the falsespelling of the frozen phrase "all und juug"meaning "everybody", and another one whichtakes "AIt und Jung" as the correct free formthat literally designates the old aim theyoung while excluding the mktdle-aged.Thus, suhstitutahility by "jedennann" (i.e.
:"everybody") wouM be an adequate decisioncriterion to convey to the user.In its present design, tile system is based onthe simplest possible working hyl~othesis, i.e.the assumption that the higherqevel orcognitive errors in a sentence cau becorrected independently.
The intuitionbehind this assumption is that, normally,cognitive (or orthographical) errors are byfar less frequent han ordinary motoric (ortypographical) errors (for this distinction seeBerkel and Smcdt, 1990), and that, as aconsequence of this, they occur withindistinct contexts uch that it is excluded thatthe correction of one error be conditionalupon the correction of another.According to this assumption, each sentenceof the lext is processed only once in thefffllowing nmnner: The system reads from aplain text copy, T2, of the original formattedtext, T I, processes the errors on T2 one afterthe other, and finally writes thecorresponding corrections to TI, withoutalso writing them to T2.Now, an abstract counterexample to theworking hypothesis can be construed quiteeasily: Given a sentence containing tilesequence of errors... Wl W2 ...and given lcxical rules(RI) Wl-o> e l(R2) W2- -> C2 / C1rewriting (i,e.
correcting) WI as C1 in anycontext, and W2 as C2 if preceeded by CI,then, clearly, tile system will correct Wl  butwill fail to correct W2.For the system to also correct W2, it must beable to take its previous output into accot, ntagain.
That is, it should not only read fromT2 but also write to it.t Iowever, to allow corrections to be writtenalso to q'2 would mean to stepwise introducetleW contexts on W2.
As a consequence, tilesystem woukl halve to redo the checking oftile whtfle sentence ach time a correctionhas been made, tbr this correction might wellbca  relevant context of some previouslycncouutered expression.Thus, giving up the working hypothesiswould result in having the system takemultiple runs through one and the samesentence instead of a single rtul, and this, ofcourse, would drastically reduce systemperformance.Fortunately, we have not yet come acrossany (signi\[icaut atllount el) data that wouldjustify such a redesign of the system.AC'I'ES l)E COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 ^o(rr 1992 1 0 3 1 l'Roc, ov COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992However, since the data captured in thesystem's lexicon covers at present some 50 %of the relevant phenomena compared to theDuden (Berger 1985), the ultimatecomplexity of tile system has to be regardedas an open and empirical question.4 Status of  Imp lementat ionA first prototype of the system describedabove has been developed in C under UNIXwithin the ESPRIT I1 project 2315"Translator's Workbench" (TWB) as one ofseveral orthogonal modules checking basicas well as higher levels (like grammar andstyle; see (Thurmair, 1990) and(Winkelmann, 1990)) of various languages.A derived and extended version - covering3.000 rewriting rules and some 80explanations - has been integrated into botha proprietary text processing software underDOS and Microsoft's WOP, D FORWINDOWS, version 1.1.This extended version has been combinedwith a conventional spelling verifier to forma single proofreader for the user.
Internally,however, its hidden sub-modules are stilltotally independent from one another andprocess a sentence one alter the other.Thus, it may happen that the checkersdisturb each others results by proposingantagonistic corrections with respect o oneand the same expression: Within the correctpassage "in bezug auf', tbr example, "bezug"will first be regarded as an error by thestandard checker which then will propose torewrite it as "Bezug".
If the user accepts thisproposal he will receive the exactly oppositeadvice by the frozen phrases checker.On the other hand, checking on differentlevels could nicely go hand in hand andproduce synergetic effects: For, clearly, anycontext sensitive checking requires that thecontexts themselves be correct antl thuspossibly have been corrected in a previous,possibly context free, step.
The checking of asingle word could in turn profit fromcontextual knowledge in narrowing down thenumber of correction alternatives to beproposed for a given error: While there maybe some eight or nine plausible candidates ascorrections of "Bezjg" when regarded inisolation, only one candidate, i.e.
"bezug", isleft when the context "in auf" is taken intoaccount.The same interdependence s ems to existwith respect to higher levels of languagechecking.
At least it can be argued that agrammar checker will profit from integrationwith a frozen phrases checker: For nothingbut an expert for frozen phrases can verit3,the correctness of (idiomatic) expressionslike "ruhig Blut bewahren" or "auf gutGliick", and thus prevent a grammar checkerfrom flagging the missing inflection of theadjective ("ruhig" or "gut") in attributiveposition.Thus, there is a strong demand for arriving ata holistic solution ff)r multi-level anguagechecking rather than for just having variouslevel experts particularistically hookedtogether in series.
This will be the task forthe near future.5 Conc lus ionAs concerns the German language, we haveshown that there is a well-defined level ofautomatic proofreading in between theclassical level of checking isolated words andthe more advanced level of grammarchecking.
On the basis of work done byZellig Harris (Harris, 1970) and MauriceGross (Gross, 1986) we have identified thislevel as that of so-called "frozen phrases",and we have proposed and implemented anautomatic pmofi'eading system that covers asignificant amount of the frozen phrases ofGerman.We take it that a similar approach is feasiblefor languages other than German as well.Although in comparison with English,French, Italian, and Spanish, German seemsto be unique as concerns co-occurrencerestrictions ff)r upper/lower case st)ellings ina large number of cases, there are at least, asindicated in (Gross, 1986), the thousands ofcompounds or frozen words in each of theselanguages which are clearly within reach fflrtile methods discussed.
In addition, thegeneralizability of our approach as receivedsome confirmation fiom case studies carriedout ff)r English and Italian.Re ferencesDieter Berger, editor.
Richtiges und gutesDeutsch.
WOrterbuch der sprachlic'henZweifel,~/?ille.
Der Duden ill 10 Bfinden.
DasStandardwerk zur deutschen Sprache,ACRES DE COLING-92, NAmxs, 23-28 AO~r 1992 1 0 3 2 PROC.
OF COL1NG-92, NANTES.
AUG. 23-28.
1992vohunc 9.
Bibliogral)hisches lnstitut,Mannhcim, Germany, 3rd ed.
\[985.Brigitte van Berkel and Koeuraad l)e Smedt19911.
Triph(nle Analysis: A combinedmethod for the correction of orthographicaland typographical errors, hi l'roceedings ofthe Second Conferetice olt Applied NaturalLanguage Processhtg, pages 77-83, Austin,Texas, February 1988.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Rudolf l,'risch and Antonio Zamora.
Spellingassistance lbr conlpoulld words.
IBM Journalq\[ Researvh and Development, 32(2): 195-2110,March 1988.Maurice Gross.
Lexicon Grammar.
TheRepresentation of CompouiId Words.
InPtoceedbrl~s ~)\[ the Eleventh biternationalConference on Computational Lhtguistics,pages l~6, Boml, Germany, August 1986.International Cominittee on ComputatioflalLinguistics.Zellig S, ltarris, t'apet:s" in Stnwtural a#tdTran.sJbrmational 1,htguistics.
FornlalLinguistics Series, volume 1.
D. ReidolPub l i sh ing  Con lpa l iy ,  Dordrccht, TticNetherlands, 1970.John E. Hopcrofl and Jeffrey D. Ulhnan.Introduction to Automata Theoo,, l.anguages,and Computation.
Addison-WesleyPublishing Company, Reading,Massachusetts, 1979.Barbara tl.
Partee, Alice ter Meulzn, andRobert 12.
Wall.
Mathematical MeUtods inLinguistics.
Studies in l~inguistics andPhilosophy, volume 311.
Kluwer AcademicPublishers, Dordrecht, The Netherlands19911.Joseph J. Pollock and Antonio Zatllora.Autonlatic spelling correction in scic, ntificand scholarly text.
Communicatiom" of theACM, 27(4): 358-368, April 1984.Mort Pdmon and Jacky tterz.
TheRecognition Capacity of Local SyntacticConstraints.
In Proceedings ()\[" the FifthConference of the European Chapter of theAssociation Jor Comlmtational Lhtguistics,pages 155-1611, Berlin, Germany, April 1991.Asst)ciation for Computatiolml l.inguistics.Gerard Salton.
lltttomatie Tert l'rocessb~g.7he Tran,~\[btmation, Amdysis, aml Retrievalof Information by Computer.
Addison-WesleyPublishing Company, Reading,Massachusetts, 1989.Gregor Thurmair.
Parsing for Grammar andSlylc Checking.
In l'apers presented to the7hirteenth International Conference onComputatiomd Lhtguistics, volume 2, pages365-3711, Helsinki, Finland, August 1990.Hans Karlgren, editor.Gtinter Winkelmann.
SemiautomaticInteractive Multilingual Style Analysis(SIMSA).
In Paper~ presented to theThirteenth International Conference onComputational Lhtguistics, volume 1, pages7%81, l telsinki, Finland, August 1990.
HansKarlgren, editor.l larald Zimmermann.
Textverarbeitung imRahulen modernerBfirokonmmnikationstechniken.
PIK.
t'raxisder lnformationsverarbeitung undKommunikation 10: 38-45, 1987.Acres DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOtn 1992 1 0 3 3 I'ROC.
OF COLING-92, NAN-fF.S, AUG. 23-28, 1992
