A TRANSLATOR'S WORKSTATIONEUGENIO PICCHI 1, CAROL PETERS 2, ELISABETFA MARINAI 3llstituto di Linguistica Computazionale, CNR, Pisa, Italy2Istituto di Elaborazione della Informazione, CNR, Pisa, Italy3ACQUILEX Project, Istimto di Linguistica Computazionale, CNR, Pisa, ItalyABSTRACTA description is given of the present state ofdevelopment of a workstation that has beendesigned to provide the translator with efficientand easy-to-use computational tools.
The aim isto offer translators fast and flexible on-lineaccess to existing dictionary databases andbilingual text archives and also to supply themwith facilities for updating, adding to andpersonalizing the system data archives withtheir own material.1.
INTRODUCTIONOver the last few years, at the Institute forComputational Linguistics in Pisa, an open-ended modular set of tools, known as thePiSystem, has been designed and developed tomeet the various requirements of literary andlinguistic text processing and analyses.
The corecomponent of the system is the DBT, a textualdatabase management and query system that hasbeen implemented in different configurations toperform specific text and dictionary processingtasks.
Other components can be integrated withthis system kernel as required, depending on theneeds of a particular application.
(For a detaileddescription of the DBT in its variousconfigurations see Picchi, 1991.)
Within thisgeneral framework, in the present paper wedescribe the construction of a Translator'sWorkstation.Translators need fast and flexible toolsto assist hem in the task of rendering an L1 textin L2, as fluently and faithfully as possible.They also need tools that are easy-to-use,relatively economic and wherever possibleportable, as many translators are free-lancersand much translating work is done at home.These requirements have been borne in mind inthe design of the Workstation.The Workstation is being constructedaround two main components: a bilingual lexicaldatabase system and a system that creates andmanages bilingual text archives.
In addition,procedures are being provided to permit theusers to update the basic system archives withtheir own data.
At present, the systemlanguages are Italian and English; however, theprocedures are designed to be generalizable:given the necessary lexical components, theycould be transported toother pairs of languages.The user can also access monolingual LDBs,and invoke Italian and English morphologicalprograms to query the dictionary and textdatabases or to check inflectional paradigms.The entire system is menu-driven; the translatoris guided in his use of each component by a setof menus, and context sensitive Helps can beinvoked to explain the functionality of eachcommand.2.
THE B IL INGUAL LEX ICALDATABASE SYSTEMThe bilingual exical database system was firstdescribed in Picchi et al(1990); it now formspart of the MLDB, a multilingual integratedtexical database system implemented within theframework of the ACQUILEX project 1 anddescribed in detail in Marinai et al (1990).
Thelexical components of the MLDB include theItalian Machine Dictionary ~ mainly based on theZingarelli Italian Dictionary -, and LDBsderived from the Garzanti 'Nuovo DizionarioItaliano', and the Collins Concise Italian-English, English-Italian Dictionary; we hope toadd an English LDB shortly.1 ACQUILEX is an ESPRIT Basic Research Actionwhich is developing techniques and methodologies forutilising both monolingual and bilingual machine-readable dictionary sources to construct lexicalcomponents fornatural language processing systems.AcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTF.S, 23-28 AOI3T 1992 9 7 2 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NAN'rES, AUG. 23-28, 19922.1 Querying the Bilingual LDBThe translator will primarily be interested in thebilingual dictionary data.
Using the bilingualLDB system he can retrieve much valuableinformation for a given lexical item at all levels(e.g.
translation equivalents, examples ofusage, syntactic information, etc.)
which isinaccessible using traditional dictionary lookup.The LDB query system offers dynamic searchprocedures that permit the user to navigatethrough the dictionary data and within thedifferent fields of the entry in order to accessand retrieve information i  whatever part of thedictionary it is stored, specifying the languageon which the query is to operate.
Any lexicalitem or combination of items entered as a valueis searched in the database with reference to itsparticular function in the entry and the results(i.e.
number of occurrences of the item) aredisplayed field by field.
The user can thenselect, view and print those results that interesthim.
Morphological procedures can be used inorder to search the entire inflectional paradigmof a word throughout the dictionary; this isparticularly useful when looking for informationon the usage of a given lexical item in theexample fields.
A full description of the LDBquery language and it complete list of all thefunctions implemented is given in Marinai et at.
(1990).The translator can also access and querythe monolingual dictionaries maintained by thesystem.
The different perspective on the dataprovided by a monolingual entry often gives amore complete view of a given lexical item andits usage than is provided by the bilingual entryalone.
A procedure has thus been implementedto permit semi-automatic mapping betweenbilingual and monolingual.LDBs.
Equivalententries from the separate dictionaries can becombined and links are created between themsemi-automatically at the sense level, mainly onthe basis of information that can be extractedfrom definitions, examples and semantic labels.In this way, we create a more completecomposite ntry which represents he sum of theinformation contained in the individualdictionaries (see Marinai et al forthcoming).The translator can use this procedure to access,compare and scan rapidly the lexical informationgiven for the same item in different sourcedictionaries.2.2 Specializing the Bil ingual LDBIn the version of the bilingual LDB that we areimplementing in the Translator's Workstation,the user will also have functions available sothat he can add his own information to thebilingual entry.
This will be particularly usefulfor the translator working in a specific domainwho may well accumulate information on theusage of particular terms and expressions withinthis discipline which is not registered in anydictionary.
He can call the User UpdateProcedure which permits him to add to the datain the lexical entries as he wishes, as long as herespects the data representation schema.The procedure will work in interactivemode.
The user calls the lexical entry to whichhe wishes to add information by entering theheadword on the keyboard.
The structured andtagged entry is displayed on the screen.
Theuser then invokes a Help function to display thedifferent functions that can be used to interveneon the entry.
All the information added by theuser is recorded in a special User MemoSection.
Within this section, he is given achoice of fields in which he can enter his data.These fields are similar to those used in the restof the Entry schema, and consist of fields fortranslations, examples, translations ofexamples, semantic indicators, and variouskinds of semantic labels: subject, usage,geographic and register codes (for a detaileddescription of the data representation schema weuse, see Calzolari et al, 1990).
With theexception of a User Note field used for freecomments by the translator, purpose-written,dynamic indexing procedures will then beexecuted on this new data so that it becomesdirectly accessible for subsequent querying.
Inthis way, the translator is able to exploit andreuse information acquired as a result of hisown experience and activity.3.
PARALLEL TEXT RETRIEVALThe considerable attention ow being given tocorpus-based studies means that there is alsogrowing interest in the creation of bilingualreference corpora.
Such corpora will beimportant sources of information in manystudies of the linguistic phenomena involved inthe process of transferring information, ideas,concepts from one language to another as theycan provide large quantities of documentedevidence on the possible realization of a conceptin two languages, according to a number ofcontextual factors, e.g.
usage, style, register,domain, etc..
The chance to access a corpus ofthis type would be of enormous help to thetranslator in his search for that elusive 'right'translation equivalent which is so often notfound in the bilingual dictionary.ACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AO~f 1992 9 7 3 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES.
AtJc;.
23-28, 1992So far most of the systems tudied tomanage bilingual corpora use statistically basedprocedures to align the texts at the sentencelevel.
Such programs often request he user tosupply not only an SL word but also a TLcandidate translation in order to constructparallel concordances.
Church and Gale (1991)present a system of this type and also describe aword-based concordance tool in which thepossible translations for a given word arediscovered from the corpus on the basis of apre-computed index indicating which words inone language correspond to which words in theother.
Our approach to the problem is quitedifferent.
We use external evidence provided bya bilingual LDB to create links between pairs ofbilingual texts on the basis of SL/TL translationequivalents.
These links are then used by thebilingual text query system to construct parallelconcordances for any form or cooccurrences offorms found in either of the two sets of texts.
Apreliminary version of this system is describedin Marinai et al (1991).At the moment, the system runs on asmall sample set of Italian/English texts chosento be representative of different language stylesand thus to provide a suitable test-bed forperformance evaluation and the definition ofbilingual corpus design criteria.
It is now ourintention to extend these archives.
In theversion of the system which has beenimplemented in the Translator's Workstation,the translator has the possibility of creating areference corpus from his own material andadding new texts to it as they become available.An easy-to-use interface has been prepared toguide the translator step-by-step as he inputspairs of texts to the system.3.1 Creating a Bilingual CorpusGiven a new pair of bilingual texts, the firststage is to structure them in text database formatusing the DBT procedures.
The texts arescanned to recognize and identify the differentelements composing them.
For example, wordforms are distinguished from the other tokens,such as punctuation marks, numbers, line andparagraph breaks; codes are added todistinguish between full stops and abbreviationmarks, between dashes and hyphens, betweenthe different use of the apostrophe in Italian andin English, etc..
This stage is simple, rapid,and once a few preliminary instructions havebeen given, automatic.Once a pair of texts is stored in DBTformat, they must be input to the text"synchronization" procedure which establishesas many links as possible between translationequivalents in the two texts.
This procedure istotally automatic and operates as follows.
Eachword form in the text selected as the Source textis input to the morphological nalyzer for thatlanguage in order to identify its base lemmawhich is then searched in the bilingual LDB.All translations given for this lemma are readand input to the morphological generator for theTL; all the forms generated are then searchedover the relevant zone in the target ext.
If theprocedure finds more than one possible baselemma for a given form the translations for eachwill be read as, in the case of grammaticalhomography, it is quite possible that thetranslation equivalent does not respect thecategory of the .source language and, in the caseof lexical homography, it is presumed unlikelythat the translations of the 'wrong' lemma willfind a correspondence in the target text.
Aschema of the procedure is given in Figure 1.I DBT SYNCHRO JI D6T SYNCHRO QUERY SYSTEM ~Figure 1.
Parallel Text "Synchronization"ProcedureAcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt3"r 1992 9 7 4 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992Articles, pronouns, prepositions and asmall list of stop words are excluded from thissearch procedure as of little significance to thematching procedure and liable to create noise.When one of the translation equivalent forms isfound in the searched section of the L2 text, alink - consisting of a physical address whichlocates the equivalent word in the L1 text - willbe created.
When no entry for a word in the L1text is found in the dictionary, it may be that theform being examined is either a proper noun ora word from a highly specialised vocabularynot included in our bilingual LDB.
An attemptis thus made to match such forms against anyequivalent character strings in the relevant zoneof the L2 text, ignoring the last characters toallow for morphological variations as, in thetwo languages in question, proper nouns andscientific terms frequently resemble ach other.The matching procedure continues, word byword, to the end of the L1 text.The execution of the "synchronization"procedure is rapid and totally transparent.When it is completed, the results are presentedto the user in terms of the number of successful"matches" of translation equivalents between.the Source and Target exts.
The procedure willbe considered to have "failed" if the number ofmatches is less than a given percentage of thetotal text.
This procedure must be executed justonce for each pair of bilingual texts, when theyare "added to the archives.3.2 Querying a Bilingual CorpusWhen the bilingual texts have been processedby the synchronization procedure, all the linksobtained are memorized in the text archives othat they can be used by the parallel querysystem.
The bilingual text system providesfunctions to query the bilingual archives andretrieve parallel contrastive contexts.
Thetranslator querying the corpus must first specifyhis "source" language, i.e.
the language onwhich the search is to be performed.
For eachform or combination of forms he searches, theparallel source and target language contexts areconstructed and displayed on the screen.
Theword(s) for which the contexts are beingcreated will be highlighted and, where a directlink exists, the L2 matched word(s) will behighlighted in the same colour.
Otherwise, thetwo directly linked forms which are closest othe point calculated as the middle of the L2context will be evidenced in a different colour,as indicators of the likely position in the TL textof the translation for the SL form(s) beingsearched.
The user can either search forindividual word forms or, using themorphological generator, for all the forms of agiven lemma.
The indicators help him toidentify the TL equivalents rapidly.
Figure 2gives examples of parallel concordances for theItalian adverbial expression plan piano / planpianino which is used to attenuate or moderatethe action of the verb; its translation i  Englishis thus context-dependent.DBT-Synchro  (Piechi) B i l ingual  Reference  Corpus V~I}P IAN & ({I}PIANINO I {I}PIANO)4 {I} est remo del campo.
L' osserva i  con indolenza mast icando  uno di queif i l l  d' erba col qual i  le ragazze pred icono il futuro.
Camminava p lanp ian ino lungo la scarpata.
Teneva una mano sul f ianco e nell' a l t ra avevaun bastone col quale saggiava il terreno erboso.
I -Dubl in2.197{E}.
I watched him lazi ly as I chewed one of those green stems on which~i~!~i~ tel l  fortunes.
He came along by the bank slowly.
He ~a!~!~ wi th  onehand upon his hip and in the other hand he held a st ick E -Dubl in2 .2115 {I} "C' ~ tempo" r ispose Corley.
"Ci dovrebbe giA essere, ma la facciosempre aspettare ."
Lenehan r idacch i6  p lan piano.
"Accidenti ,  Cor ley,  saisempre come t rat tar le"  disse.
"Li conosco tutt i  i loro I -Dub l in6 .150{E} enough",  said Corley.
"She' ii be there all r ight.
I a lways let herwait  a bit ."
~ laughed quiet ly.
"Ecod, ~ i~,  you know how to takethem", he said~:i~:l~::m up to all their  E -Dubl~n6.1706 {I} si sarebbe aperta la strada.
Sul tavolo davanta a lui g iaceva  unvolume del la  poes ie  di Byron.
L' apri p lan piano con la s in is t ra  per nonsvegl iare il b imbo e cominci6 a ieggere la prima: Tacc iono i vent i  eimmoto l 'aer I -Dubl in8.493{E} might  open the way for him.
A volume of Byron's  poems lay beforehim on the ~ i~.
He opened it caut ious ly  with his ~!~ft hand lost heshould waken?~e chi ld and began to read the first poem in the book:"Hushed E -Dub l inS .536 co .~ ~i~t~rru~t Fl HelpFigure 2 Parallel Concordances for pian piano/pianino from the Bilingual Text ArchivesACrF.S DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AO6T 1992 9 7 5 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES.
AUG. 23-28, 1992"Wrong" links between falsely recognizedtranslation equivalents that disturb contextcalculation are identified and eliminated by thequery system, which then recalculates theparallel contexts on the basis of those linksrecognised as valid.
We are now consideringways to filter the results o that the user has theoption of viewing only that part of them whichmost interests him, e.g.
he could choose toview only those parallel contexts in which thereis no direct (dictionary established) link for theSL word being searched.
During a querysession, bilingual concordances can be selectedfor printing or saved in a separate file for futurereference.The bilingual text retrieval system iscurrently implemented for interactiveconsultation, e.g.
by the lexicographer ortranslator.
However, data derived fromanalyses on bilingual corpora should alsoprovide valuable input for MT systems.
Forexample, Nagao (forthcoming) stresses theimportance of including detailed collocationalinformation in the transfer dictionaries of suchsystems: there are many specific expressionswhich must be translated in a specific way in agiven TL and knowledge of this sort improvesthe quality of an MT system greatly.
To acquireit many collocational expressions with theirtranslations must be accumulated and bilingualtexts are important sources of such data.
Forthis reason, we have begun to examine methodsby which the results can be synthesized so thatthe most probable translation candidates for agiven expression within the TL context can beidentified (semi)automatically.4.
FINAL REMARKSThe components of the translator's workstationare in an advanced stage of implementation.
Weenvisage a final integrated system in which thetranslator creates his document using one of thecommercially available word processingpackages from which he can access and querythe bilingual (and monolingual) lexicaldatabases or the bilingual text archiveswhenever the need arises.
In this way, not onlywill he be able to consult much materialotherwise inaccessible, but the speed of thesystem response times means that, to a largeextent, it is possible to avoid that interruption toconcentration so often involved when it isnecessary to stop work to perform a manuallook-up of a reference work.The rapid recent echnological progressin the computer hardware world means that it isincreasingly possible to provide desk-top toolswith large storage capacities at relatively lowcosts; the workstation is thus beingimplemented on personal computers and runsunder the MS/DOS operating system.REFERENCESCalzolari N., Peters C., Roventini A.
(1990),Computational Model of the Dictionary Entry:Preliminary Report, ACQUILEX, Esprit BRA3030, Six Month Deliverable, ILC-ACQ-1-90,Pisa, 90p.Church K., Gale W. (1991), Concordances forParallel Text, in Using Corpora, Proc.
7thAnnual Conference of the UW Centre for theNew OED and Text Research, OUP, UK, pp40-62.Marinai E., Peters C., Picchi E. (1990), ThePisa Multilingual Lexical Database System,Esprit BRA 3030, Twelve Month Deliverable,ILC-ACQ-2-90, Pisa, 61p.Marinai E., Peters C., Picchi E., A prototypesystem for the semi-automatic sense linking andmerging of mono- and bilingual LDBs, inN.Ide and S. Hockey (eds.
), Research inHumanities Computing, OUP, forthcoming.Marinai E., Peters C., Picchi E. (1991),Bilingual Reference Corpora: A System forParallel Text Retrieval in Using Corpora, Proc.of 7th Annual Conference of the UW Centre forthe New OED and Text Research, OUP, UK,pp 63-70.Nagao M., Dict ionaries for MachineTranslation, Linguistica Computazionale, VolVIII, forthcoming.Picchi E. (1991), D.B.T.
: A Textual Data BaseSystem, in L. Cignoni and C. Peters (eds.
),Computational Lexicology and Lexicography.Special Issue dedicated to Bernard Quemada.H, Linguistica Computazionale, Vol VII, pp177-205.Picchi E., Peters C., Calzolari N. (1990),Implementing a Bilingual Lexical DatabaseSystem, in T. Magay and J.Zig~iny (eds.
),BUDALEX '88 Proceedings, Budapest, 1990,pp 317-329.ACq'Es DE COLING-92.
NANTES, 23-28 ho~" 1992 976 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES.
AUG. 23-28.
1992
