HIERARCHICAL  LEX ICAL  STRUCTURE AND INTERPRET IVEMAPP ING IN MACHINE TRANSLAT IONTeruko Mitamura Eric H. Nyberg HICenter  for  Mach ine  Translat ion Center  for  Mach ine  Trans lat ionCarneg ie  Mel lon Univers i ty  Carneg ie  Mel lon  Univers i tyP i t tsburgh,  PA 15213 USA Pittsburgh,  PA 15213 USAteruko@cs .cmu.edu ehn@cs .cmu.eduAbstractLarge-scale knowledge-based machine translationrequires ignificant amounts of lexical knowledgein order to map syntactic structures to conceptualstructures.
Tfiis paper presents a framework inwhich lexical knowledge is separated into differ-ent levels of representation, which are arranged ina hierarchical model based on principles of knowl-edge representation a d lexical semantics.
The pro-posed methodology is language-independent, a dhas been used to organize lexical knowledge forboth English and Japanese.1 IntroductionThe basic premise of knowledge-based machine translation isthat accurate, high-quality ranslation requires a complete se-mantic interpretation f the input text (Carbonell and Tomita,1987).
Therefore, the analysis and generation components ofa knowlodge-based MT system must have at least he follow-ing functional parts: a grammar for the language, a lexiconfor the language, a shared set of domain concepts, and rulesthat map syntactic structures onto semantic structures (or vice-versa for generation)..The goal of our work has been to develop amethodology forthe hierarchical organization f lexical knowledge (lexical en-tries and mapping rules) for knowledge-based MT (Goodmanand Nirenburg, 1991; Mitamura, 1989).
Interpretive Map-ping refers to the relationship between predicate conceptualstructures and syntactic structures, and involves two kinds ofprocesses: one is a mapping between grammatical fnnctions(e.g., subject, object) and semantic roles (e.g., agent, theme);the other is a mapping between words (e.g., naguru 'hit') anddomain concepts (e.g., *HIT).We have developed a shared hierarchical structure for lex-ical knowledge which can capture significant linguistic gen-eralizations, eliminate rexlundancy, and facilitate both knowl-edge acquisition and efficient processing.
We have imple-mented our hierarchy using FranaeKit, an AI knowledge rep-resentation language that supports frames and multiple inher-fiance (Nyberg, 1988).Our system demonstrates rite integration ofa linguistic for-realism with a frame-based knowledge representation system.We have analyzed a large corpus of Japanese verbs and cre-ated a set of lexical frames, mapping rules, and an inheritancehierarchy for use in a working translation system.2 Linguistic MotivationOur methodology is based in part on recent work in lexicalsemantics (Jackendoff 1983, 1987; Levin, B.
1985, 1987,1989; Hale and Keyser 1986; Fukui, Miyagawa, ,and Tenny1985; Rappaport and Levin, B.
1986).
The field of lexicalsemantics i  concerned with therepresentation of syntacticallyrelevant aspects of word meaning, especially the properties ofargument-taking words like verbs.Many researchers have noticed that semantically similarpredicates tend to be syntactically similar, too.
B. Levin(1987, 1989) examines many systematic semantic-syntacticcorrespondences, including linking regularities and transitiv-ity alternations.
Linking refers to associations between se-mantic arguments and grammatical relations.
Common cor-respondenees between semantic arguments and grammaticalrelations are called linking regularities.2.1 Linking and AlternationFor example, in the causative use of break (e.g., John broke thevase), the subject John is linked to the agent semantic role, andthe object vase maps to the theme semantic role.
Break canbe classified as a change-of-state verb, and the same pattern isobserved in the causative use of other change-of-state verbs,such as crack and melt.
Moreover, it is important to notethat this pattern also holds for other classes of verbs (e.g.,change-of-possession verbs like give).It is also the case that the same verb can have more thanone way of linking syntactic functions with semantic roles.These different linkings are called valency alternations, whichinclude both transitivity alternations and alternate linkings ofsemantic arguments with syntax.For example, break can also appear in sentences like Thevase broke, where the verb assigns the theme semantic roleto the syntactic subject.
This is in contrast to the causativeuse of break, described above, where file verb assigns theagent semantic role to the syntactic subject and a theme se-ACRES OE COLING-92.
N^wrEs, 23-28 ho~r 1992 l 2 5 4 Pgoc.
oF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992mantic role to the syntactic object.
This alternation, known asthe Causative/lnchoative alt rnation, is also associated withchange-of-position verbs like drop (John dropped the ball vs.The ball dropped), change-of-psychological-state verbslikeworry (John worried vs. Bill worried John), etc.
(B. Levin,1989).With some verbs, rite mapping of one syntactic functionmay remain constant while others alternate.
For example,in the sentence John cut the meat, the patient semantic roleis assigned to the syntactic object; in John cut at the meat,tile goal semantic role is assigned to the prepositional object.In both sentences, the agent semantic role is assigned to thesyntactic subject.Classes of verbs which undergo the same alternation tendto be semantically similar.
Verbs like hack and slash, whichbelong to the same verb class as cut, undergo tile same al-ternation mentioned above.
However, semantically differentverbs like break do not exhibit he stone alternation:(I) a.
He broke  the cup.b.
*He broke  at the cup.Linking regularities and transitivity alternations are usedto identify the semantic roles of arguments and the semanticclasses of verbs.
That is, an argument which displays the samelinking regularities a another argument might be assigned thesame thematic role, and verbs which have the same transitivityalternations can be placed in the same class.Transitivity alternations in English are marked in variousways.
Many of them involve the alternation of an argumentbetween object add prepositional phrase.
In Japanese, how-ever.
valency alternations, (including transitivityalternatious)are usually indicated by different case markers lx3rne by theargmnents of the verb.
Every noun phrase in Japanese ismarked postpositionally by a particle, such as ga, o, ni, andde.
These markers indicate tile case or other grammaticalfanction of the nominals they are associated with.For example, the o/de alternation appears with verbs likeoyogu (swim), sanposuru (rake a walk), and hashiru (run)<(2) a, Taro  ga kawa o oyo ida~Taro swam down the r iver 'b.
Taro  ga kawa de oyo ida~Taro swam in the r iver'2.2 Lexical MappingAnother part of building a lexical semantic representation isto foramlate links from lexical items to conceptual meanings;these links are called lcxical mappings.
Since the semanticproperties of relations and objects (which are crucial in stat-ing subcategorization restrictions) reside most naturally in asemantic domain model, it is necessary for a system to inte-grate the lexical level and the domain model so that semanticrestrictions can be satisfied uring parsing and generation.In some cases, a lexical item may be linked to more thanjust a semantic head.
For exmnple, in the sentence The pen-cil rolled off the table, the meaning of roll must be repre-i For further detail and examples, see (Mitamura, 1989).seated by both a semantic head (e.g., *MOVE) and a seman-tic modifier indicating the manner of motion (e.g., (manner*ROTATION)) 2.
As a result, lexical mapping may also requiresemantic feature assignment.2.3 SummaryThe motivation for our work has been the following set of ob-servations, drawn from the linguistic phenontena mentionedin this section.
An appropriate l xical representation must beable to represent tile following:?
The linking of a particuhu" syutactic function with a par-ticular semantic role;?
A set of linking rules that indicate a partianlar lternation;?
A group of alternations that capture the general behaviorof a class of verbs;?
An explicit representation f verb classes, to which par-ticular lexical items may be linked;.
A set of lexical items, which contain both links to verbclasses and links to semantic oncepts in the domainconceptual hierarchy.3 The  Lexica l  H ie rarchyOur lexical hierarchy has five levels of representation, eachcorresponding to a linguistically meaningful nit of structure:(1) Mapping Rule Frames, which capture a particular corre-spondence between a syntactic function and a semantic role;(2) Mapping Pattern Fran|es, which capture a particular setof mapping rules, which correspond to one way of linkingthe arguments ofa particular verb; (3) Mapping "b/pc Frames,which capture tile set of alternations (mapping patterns) al-luwed by a particular class of verbs; (4) Verb Class Frames.
inwhich the generalization in verb linking behavior iscaptured;(5) Lcxical Frames, in which tmrticnlar lexical items (verbs)are represented asframes which are linked both to appropri-ate verb class frames and to conceptual frames in the donminconcept hierarchy.Figure 1 illustrates the inheritance r lations between map-ping rules, mapping patterns, mapping types, verb classes,aml lexical frames in English.3.1 Mapping Rule FramesThe nmpping rule frames each map one grammatical function,such as subject or object, onto a semantic role, such as agentor theme.
Each mapping rule is specified in a separate frame,as in the lollowing:a.
( ~ agent -sub  j -mapp ing( :agent  subj ) )b.
( * theme-ob  j -mapp ing( : theme obj) )c. ( * theme-sub  j -mapp ing( : theme subj) )2This is similar to the nouon of conflation discussed by "litlrny (1985).Ac'lxs DE COLING-92, NANTi{S, 23-28 AOUI 1992 I 2 5 5 PROC.
OF COLIN(i-92, NANTES.
AUO.
23-28, 19923.2 Mapping Pattern FramesThe mapping pattern frames represent particular bundles ofmapping rules.
For example, a mapping pattern frame whichcontains the agent-subject mapping and the theme-object map-ping represents one mapping pattern, whereas a frame whichcontains just the theme-subject mapping represents .anothermapping pattern 3(of.
Figure 1).Syntactic onstraint rules can be written in a mapping pat-tern frame to indicate that the associated mapping rnles canapply only when these constraints are satisfied.
Some exam-pies of mapping pattern frames are shown below:( *mapp ing-pat  tern l( syntact i c -const ra in t(pass ive = -) )(contain *theme--ob j -mapp ing* agent -  sub j -mapping)  )( *mapp ing-pat  tern2(syntact i c -const ra in t(pass ive = -) )(conta in  * theme-sub j -mapp ing)  )The frame *mapping-pattern I captures one way of mappingthe syntactic argument of a verb.
The subject is mapped tothe semantic agent and the object is mapped to the semantictheme.
The *1napping-pattern2 frame indicates a mappingwhere the verb has one argument, the subject, and maps thesubject o the semantic agent.3.3 Mapping Type FramesMapping type frames contain sets of mapping rule pat-terns, and have the ability to capture both transitivity al-ternations in English and case alternations iu Japanese (Mi-~uura, 1989).
The two mapping patterns we mentionedearlier, 1) the agent-subject and the theme-object mapping,and 2) the theme-subject mapping, can be generalized as thecausative-inchoative verb mapping type.
In Figure 1, thecausative-inchoative alternation is represented by *causative-inchoative, hi Japanese, the alternation between an obliqueargument with particle oand an oblique argumeat with particlede is captured by *obl-o/obl-de.An example of a mapping type frame is shown below:( *causat ive - inchoat ive(conta in  *mapp ing-pat  tern l*mapp ing-pat  te rn2 ) )The *causative-incltoative frame contains two mapping pat-tern frames, indicated by a contain link that includes*mapping-patterul and *mapping-patteru2.3This is similar to the notkm of lexicalforms in lexical mappi.g theory(nresnan i d Kanerva, 1989), but fire difference is that we incorporate caseassignment tule~ into argument mspping nlles to make the mapping a o.estep operatitx~ foruse in generating or par~ing sentences.
In LFG, casez aretssigned ineach lexical entry through grammatical encoding theory, whichidentifies ~t.d assigns an appropriate ease for t grammatical l'unction ill eachlexieal ealtry.3.4 Verb Class FramesVerb class frames generalize over verbs with a common coresense and common syntactic behavior, Some example verbclass frames (*verbs-of-breaking, *motion-path-verbs) are il-lustrateA in Figure 1.
The *verbs-of-breaking frame has anis-a link to the *causative-inchoative mapping type, indicat-ing that verbs in the *verbs-of-breaking class can undergo thecausative-inchoative alternation.3.5 Lexical FramesLexical frames represent the language-dependent lexicon, andinclude pointers to corresponding conceptual frames.
Theseframes also have is-a relations which link them to verb classframes, which are organized hierarchically according to theparticular language,The SEMANTICS slot in the lexical frame contains ref-ereaces to the concepttml frames associated with the lexicalitem.
Particular restrictions on the meaning of the lexical itemare captured by semantic role or feature assignment rules thatmay appear along with each SEMANTICS pointer.For example, the SEMANTICS slot shown below for theverb roll points to the conceptual frame *MOVE.
Includedwith the pointer to *MOVE is an assignment rule which in-dicates that the manner of *MOVE must have the meaningindicated by the conceptual frame *ROTATION.
The *roll-1frame has an is-a relation to the verb class frame, *motion-verbs.
(*rol l - i{is-a *mot ion -verbs )(semant ics( * MOVE( :manner  = *ROTATION)  ) ) )More examples of lexical frames are shown in Figures 1.I11 Figure 1, *break-1 is a lexical frame, corresponding to thesemantic notion *BREA'K, which is a member of the *verbs-of-breaking verb class.4 The  Domain  Conceptua l  H ie rarchyConceptual frames represent knowledge of the world that islanguage-independent, lbr example, general concepts such as?
EVENT and *PHYS ICAL-OBJECT, as well as more specificconcepts, like *BREAK and *SWIM 4.
Conceptual frames areorganized hierarchically using inheritance r lations.
Selec?tional restrictions can be specified in conceptual frames, andappear as the fillers of semantic role slots.5 Multiple Inheritance and InterpretiveMapping  in Mach ine  Trans la t ionOar operational goals in constructing this hierarchy and itsinheritance relations include the following:'*An asterisk prefix is used to indicate frame names.
Upper case framenames (e,g,, *BREAK) indicate conceptual frames.
Lower ease is used forall other frame names (e.g,, lexical frames, veal) class frames, etc.
).ACTES DE COLING-92, NAtZI'eso 23-28 AOL'T 1992 1 2 5 6 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUO, 23-28, 1992Mapping (*m- zu).al |*~ rul~ (*a-rt*Im3 ~u~o~ {:,g,~t .ttb:)}) (:tlwm ~9)1 (:tlw,~ ,ub3))conlai~co~ain t ?
?~laink~ap~h30 ( ,l_lmtt~rn I (*m l~t t*=~Pallems (oontab~ *= xattal (c~ntatn *m-ra/.~3) )/contain ,/1-'"g~c.ontainM~PP~O { *~uutlv..-la~eholtiw\[yp~s {o0~tain ~m=i~ttto~nl~-~tt ,xn2  ) )lisaVopb ( *vlrbl -o ?-bzaakin(/Classos {im-a * caul ~t ivo -Inchoat ?v4) )l.oxiCal (*br~k-I (*~m~-%Frafr~s (m~nt l~ *14PX.tl) (~mumt?~ *cl~t~()Figure 1: Lexieal Hierarchy Example: English?
Support of rapid, straightforward acquisition of largeamounts of texical knowledge in an interactive environ~meat;?
Elimination of unuecessary (and costly) redundancy inthe representation f lexical knowledge.5.1 Efficient Knowledge AequisitinnProductivity in the kuowledge acquisition task is greatly ea-hancexl by this hierarchical methodology.
Rather than exlitingan ASCII file containing rednndant mapping rule definitionsfor each lexical entry, the persou entering new lexical con-cepts utilizes a 2-dimensional browsing and editing tool toadd new knowledge to the system (Kaufinann, 1991).Once the initial mapping rules, alternations attd verb classesare specified, the user can easily link new lexical frames toexisting verb classes, perhaps refining some of the knowledgein tile upper portions of the hierarchy, but in general takingadvaltlage of the compact uaturc of the hierarchy to avoidredund,'mt data entry.The fiame representation presented here has a great advtm-rage lot the development of large-scale NLP systems, namely,that each mapping rifle need only be defined once, anti is there-after inherited by all the lexieal frames that require it.
Bypositing intermediate l vels of structure (mapping types andmapping patterns), significant generalizations can be capturedwhich farther enhaace the compactness of tile representationand the ease of knowledge acquisition.5.2 Multiple InheritanceThe delinition of containment, however, is not as straight-lorwm'd as a simple is-a relation in traditional frame-basedknowledge representation.
"lhe containment relation that ob-tains between mappingpattems and mapping rules is the usualconjunctive (nmltiple) type of inheritance, since a mappingpattern contains each and every mapping rule that it is linkedto via a contain link.
On the other hand, the containment rela-tion that holds between mapping types and mapping patternsin disjunctive, since a nmpping tyve contains different typesof alteraations, only one of which can be active at a given timefor a particular verb.
As a result, inheritance is pert'ormed ina different manner at these two levels in the hierarchy.By default, FrameKit supports only conjunctive inheri-lance, which is most common in system where inherit.mteehierarchies are built using simple is-a links.
We have de-veloped user-delined inheritance methods for FrameKit hatperform rite appropriate inheritance operations at each levelin the mapping Itierarchy.
When all of the possible subcate-gorization/nmpping pairs must be retrieved for a given lexi-cal frame, these inheritance methods perform the appropriateconjunctive inheritance, bundliug the mapping rules togetherinto mapping patterns, followed by disjunctive inheritance ofmapping types to create any "alternative r adings of the lexicalitem.
Simply speaking, the inheritance methods must re-create the explicit structure that is implicit in the inheritancehierarchy when it is necessary to represent distinct mappingsfor verbs at system run-time.An extuuple of how iuberitance works at run time is illus-trated in Figure 2.
The two franles shown in the figure areinstantiated by the inheritance methods from the lexical frame*break-l, and represent the two possible alternations ofbreak(the causative reading and file inchoative reading).
( * BF, EAK-  1153(TtlEME OBJ)(AGENT SUBJ )(SEMANTICS  *BREAK)(CREATED-FROM *BREAK- I )  )( *BREAK- I f  54(THEME SUBJ )(SEMANTICS  *BREAK)(CREATF, D-FROM *BREAK- I  ) )Figure 2: lnstantiated Frames for *break-15.3 Interpretive MappingThe architecture in Figure 3 illustrates how our lexieal hier-archy fits into the overall machine translation system.
Duringprosing, tile lexieal entries tored iu the source lexical hievarochy are accessed by the LF(I parser; during the mapping ofsource f-stractures tointerlinguarepresentations, file mappingrules in the lexical hierarchy are accessed by the mapper viainstarlliated mapping structures like those shown in Figure2.
During generation, tile target language lexical hierarchyis utilized in a similar fashion.
First, instantiated ntappingstructures arc used to create target f-structures, a d then tar-get lexieal entries are utilizexl by the LFG generator toproducetarget language strings.6 Statuswe have developed an extensive interpretive mapping hier-archy for Japzmese, which includes 36 mapping rule frames,Acrus DI~ COLING-92, NAtal,S.
23-28 AOUT 1992 I 2 5 7 PRoc.
OF COL1NG-92, NANTI~S.
AUG. 23-28, 1992Data Procnelng KnowledgeFlow Modules SourcesFigure 3: System Architecture for Machine Translation45 mapping pattern frames, 37 mapping type frames, 54 verbclass frames, and 100 lexical frames.
Hundreds of additionallexical frames could be added to the hierarchy without mod-ification of the existing hierarchical structure.
We believethat our mapping frame hierarchy accounts for the syntacticbehavior of a significant number of Japanese verb classes.The hierarchy is based on data for about 1000 verbs, takenfrom (Ishiwata nd Ogino, 1983) and the IPAL report on basicJapanese verbs OPAL, 1987),We have also developed an initial mapping hierarchy forEnglish verbs.
The English and Japanese lexical hierarchieswere utilized in the KBMT-89 system for the interpretation ofJapanese sentences (Mitamura, et al, 1991).
Weare currentlyintegrating our hierarchical structure into a large-scale systemfor translation of service manuals from English to Japanese.Since the argument mapping knowledge represented in ourhierarchy is declarative rather than procedural, it can be usedeither in analysis or generation (cf.
Figure 3).7 ConclusionHigh-quality machine translation requires an adequate s man-tic interpretation of the source text.
To achieve this goal, wefeel it is necessary toincorporate he kind oflexical knowledgeand structure that has been explored in the theory of lexicalsemantics.
We have presented a methodology that can be usedto construct lexical hierarchies which represent lexical knowl-edge in a compact, efficient representation which captures rel-evant linguistic generalizations, as well as providing ausefulframework for knowledge acquisition and system-building.This methodology is declarative and language-independent,and can be used either for parsing or generation.References\[1\] Bresnan.
J and J. M. Kanerva (1989) "Locative Inversionin Chichewa: A Case Study of Factorization i  Grammar,"Linguistic Inquiry, 20:1.1-50.\[2\] Carbonell, J. G. and M. Tomita (1987).
"Knowledge-basedMachine Translation: The CMU Approach," inNirenburg, S.(ed,), Machine Translation: Theoretical and MethodologicalIssues, New York: Cambridge University Press.\[3\] Fukui.
N., S. Miyagawa.
nd C. Tenny (1985) "Verb Classesin English and Japanese: A Case Study in the Interaction ofSyntax, Morphology and Semantics,"LexiconProject WorkingPapers #3, Center for Cognitive Science, MIT, Cambridge,MA.\[4\] Goodman, K. and S. Nirenburg, eds.
(1991) A Case Studyin Knowledge-Based Machine Translation, San Mateo, CA:Morgan Kanfmann.\[5\] Hale, K. and J. Keyser (1986) "SomeTransitivity Altematinnsin English," Lexicon Project Working Papers #7, Center forCognitive Science, MIT, Cambridge, MA.\[6\] Ishiwata, T. and T. Ogino (1983) "Nihongo Yougen o Ket-sugoka," Bunpou to Imi L Asakura-shoten, Tokyo.
226-272.\[7\] Jackendoff.
R.S.
(1983) Semantics and Cognition, MIT Press,Cambridge.
MA.\[8\] Jackendoff, R.S.
(1987)''The Status of Thematic Relations inLinguistic Theory," Linguistic Inquiry, 18:3,369-411.I9\] Johoushori shinkou jigyou kyoukai, ed.
(1987) Keisanki-youNihongo Kihon-doushi J sho IPAL - Basic Verbs: jisho-hen.\[10\] Kanfmann.
T (1991).
The ON'I"OS User's Guide.
TechnicalMmno, Center for Machine Translation, Carnegie Mellon Uni-versity.\[11\] Levin, It.
(1985) "Lexical Semantics in Review: an Introduc-tion."
Lexicon Project Working Papers #1, Center for Cogni-tive Science, MFF, Cambridge, MA.\[12\] Levin, B.
(1987)"Approaches to Lexical Semantic Represen-tation," Unpublished Manuscript.\[13\] Levin, B.
(1989) "English Verb Diathesis," Lexicon ProjectWorking Papers#32, Center for Cognitive Science, MIT, Cam-bridge, MA.\[14\] Mitamura, T. (1989) "The Hierarchical Organization f Pred-icate Frames for Interpretive Mapping in Natural LanguageProcessing," Ph.D. dissertation, University of Pittsburgh.\[15\] Mitamura, T., et al (1991) "Analysis Lexicon," in Goodmanand Nirenburg, eds., A Case Study in Knowledge-Based Ma-chine Translation, San Mateo, CA: Morgan Kaufmann.\[16\] Nyberg, E. (1988) The FrameKit User's Guide: Version 2.0,Technical Report, Center for Machine Translation, CarnegieMellon University, CMU-CMT-88-MEMO.\[17\] Rappaport, M. and B. Levin (1986) "'What to Do with Theta-Roles," Lexicon Project Working Papers #11, Center for Cog-nitive Science, M1T.
Cambridge, MA.\[18\] Talmy, L. (1985) "Lexicalization l'anems: Semantic Structurein Lexical Forms," in T. Shopen, ed.. Grammatical Categoriesand the Lexicon, Language Typology and Syntactic Descrip-tion 3, Cambridge University Press.ACTES DE COLING-92, NAN'rES, 23-28 AOI~T 1992 1 2 5 8 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992
