Interaction between Structural Changes in Machine TranslationSatosh i  K INOSHITAResearch  and  Deve lopment  CenterTosh iba  Corporat ionKomuka i -Tosh iba-cho  1, Sa iwa i -ku ,Kawasak i ,  210 JapanJohn  I 'H ILL IPS  Jun - i ch i  TSUJ I ICent re  h)r Comt)utat iona l  L ingu is t i csUMISTP .O .Box  88, Manchester ,M60 1QD,  U .K .Abst ractThis paper discusses coml)lex structural changes dur-ing transfer within a non-destructive transfer frame-work.
Though the description of each individualstructural change is not difficult, special provisionmust be made when they are combined, because in-teraction between them sometimes causes unexpectedproblems.
Transfer of coordinate structures is alsodiscussed a.q this sometimes necessitates a structuralchange and interacts with other structural changes ina problematic way.1 IntroductionSeveral focal issues have emerged in machine translation (MT) research as the result of recent intensivestudies in the field.
That  is,?
Declarative Frameworks for expressing Bi-lingualKnowledge?
Integration of Knowledge-based Processing andContextual Processing with the Translation process?
Effective Exploitation of Domain/' l~xt Type-Specificity (or Sublauguageness) in MT and Dis-covery Processes for such SpecifieitiesThough new frameworks of MT such as Statistics-based MT (SBMT), F, xample-bascd MT (F, BMT),Analogy-based MT (ABMT), Knowledge-based MT(KBMT) etc.
look radically difihrent from con-ventional liuguisties-based MT (LIIMT) anch asTransfer-based MT, they address role or two of theabove focal issues and ignore the rest\[7\]\[10\].
In par-ticular, the new paradigms of MT tend to ignore t.hefirst issue ie.
declarative representation f bi-lingualknowledge and the complexities involved in the pro-cess of combining units of bi-liagual knowledge.It is our contention that any MT system, whicheverparadigm it belongs to, has to store a set oftranslation-equivalent u its for a pair of languagesand combine these to produce larger units of trans-lation.
In EBMT, for example, a set of translationexamples has to be stored and several of them haveto be combined properly to produce translation.
Be-cause of the declarative nature of translation exam-pies, EBMT inevitably encounters the same complex-itics of combining translation units in declarative rep-resentation o.~ I,BMT does.tLescarch in LBMT\[1\]\[2\]\[3\]\[ll\]\[12\]\[13\] has revealedthat dittieulties in tim declarative representation ofbi-lingual knowledge stem mainly from the treatmentof idiosyncratic structural changes caused by lexiealitems, and interactions of such idiosyncratic struc-tural changes when they co-exist in single sentences.These type of structural changes also cause problemswhen they are combined with general or ordinary lin-guistic phenomena soeh as coordination.
A formalframework to cope with these matters is essential inother aPl)roaches, uch as EBMT, as in LBMT, if thetranslation is produced in a compositional way.In this paper, we discuss problems caused by suchinteraction, and give solutions in our logic-basedtransfer framework\[8\].
Our transfer model views thetransfer process as deduction; it produces the targetlinguistic description without changing the source de-scription.
This giw:s a clear contrast o the conven-tional tree-traasducer model, which gradually tranS-forms the source description, and is therefore hard tocontrol.Because of the logic oriented nature of our frame-work, it can also be extended easily to cope with theother local issue of MT such as the integration ofknowledge-based processing with translation\[4\].2 FormalismWe use a simple formalism, representing a sentenceas a network of semantic dependencies.
The basicunits of the formMism are indices, properlies, and re-Istwna.
A logical form consists of an unordered netof Ierms; each term is either a property predicatedof an it~dex, or ~t relation between two indices.
Thewritten notation depicts properties and relations asunary and binary functors, respectively, and indicesas theiL" arguments, i.e.
within brackets.
A logicalform representing ' John saw Mary' might bee : john(j) & see(el & mary(n 0 & tense(e,past) &subj(e,j) & obj(e,m)This representation i  simplified particularly in thatActxs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Ao~r 1992 6 7 9 I'~oc.
ov COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992the man who Mary saw: x : man(x) & mary(m) & see(el & t .
.
.
.
.
(e,past) & subj(e,m) & obj(e,x)the man who saw Mary: x : man(x) & nrary(m) & see(el & tense(e,past) & subj(e,x) & obj(e,m)I managed to painl my house quickly: m : me(me) & manage(m) & tense(m,past) & subj(m,me) &obj(m,p) & paint(p) & obj(p,h) & of(h,me) & house(h) & qniek(q) & subj(q,p)Mary looked at the brightly painted house: l : mary(m) & look(l) & tense(l,past) & subj(l,m) & at(l,h) &bright(b) & subj(b,p) & paint(p) & obj(p,h) & house(h)Mary's house was painted: p : mary(m) & of(h,rn) & house(h) & paint(p) & tense(p,past) & obj(p,h)Figure 1: Examples of Logical Formsthe relation tense here stands for what should be acomplex representation f tense, aspect, and aktion-sart, related anaphorieally to the preceding discourse.It can be seen that the representation i cludes thenames of the concepts, both objects and events, whichare mentioned in the sentence, aud the semantic re-lationships between them.
Each of the three indices,j, m and e, is a unique label given to a node in thedependency network.
The indices also serve as dis-course referents when the logical form is incorporatedinto a discourse representation.
The root node of thenetwork is specified at the beginning of the represen-tation, in tiffs ease e, the node representing the seeingevent.
In terms of discourse representation theory, eis tim discourse referent of which the logical form is adescription.
As long as the root node of the networkis  specified, it is possible to convert a logical formmechanistically into a structured representation suchas a dependency graph or a feature structure such astense : pastsubject : \[predicate : john\]object : \[predicate : mary\]Some other examples of logical forms are shownin figure 1.
The particular characteristics of theformalism - -  the types of relations and predicatesused and the manner of their use - -  are justifiedelsewhere\[9\].
We only state here that tbe forrualismcan treat the phenomena which are treated by tradi-tional formalisms, along with additional phenomenarelating to discourse structure and lexical semantics.3 Trans ferWe follow the standard ivision of a machine trans-lation system into stages of analysis, transfer, andgeneration.
The parts of the system include algo-rithms for analysis, transfer, and generation, descrip-tions of the strneture of individual anguages (usedby the analysis and generation algorithm.s), and de-scriptions of equivalence relationships between pairsof languages (used by the transfer algorithm).
Itis a requirement for the transfer description that itshould state all and only the equivalence relation-ships between expressions of a pair of languages.
Itshould contain no general inguistic information, el-tiler universal or specific to any single language: thesetypes of information belong ill the formalism and con-tent, respectively, of the descriptions of individuallanguages.
In fact most of our transfer descriptionsconsist of direct equivalences between predicates orgroups of predicates of the language pair.A transfer rule shows a particular translationequivalence between two languages.
It consists ofthree parts: a pair of logical forms, one for eachlanguage, representing tile equivalence, and a thirdlogical form giving the conditions under which theequivalence is applicable.
We call these the equiva~lenee pair and the condition respectively.
Two logicalforms form an equivalence pair if the natural languageexpressions they represent have overlapping denota-tions (using 'denotation' in a very broad sense to en-compass not only the referential possibilities of nounsbut the possibility in general of applying a predicateto a particular index).
The rule can therefore be usedfor translating in either direction: the two logicalforcers of the eqnivalenee pair are always translation-ally equivalent if the condition is satisfied.
The logicalforms of the equivalence pair will be indistinguishablefrom logical forms of the respective languages, usingthe same predicates and relations.
The logical formsof the condition use meta-predieates which allow ref-erence to to the logical form of the current local trans-lation unit (sentence or clause) and to the linguisticcontext.
In practice, most transfer ules have no con-dition; they consist just of an eqnivalenee pair.
Someexamples of rules follow:English Japanese Explanationtable(X) teeburu(X) table = teeburupaper(P) ronb,m(p) paper = ronbunpaper(P) sinbmt(P) paper = sinbunsubj(E,X) ga(E,X ) subject markerobj(E,X) wo(E,X) object markerhypothetical(El,like(El -tai(F),omou(E) would likeiff inLeft(obj(E,F)) ~tal omouThe following is the basic definition of transfer be-tween two texts (sentences, clauses, or whatever):A source logical form and a target logicalform are correctly transferred if tile terms ofeach can be divided into non-overlapping sub-sets such that the source subsets can be placedinto one-to-one correspondence with the targetsubsets by each corresponding pair being 'uni-fied' with the two halves of the equivalence pairAcqEs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt~T 1992 6 8 0 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NAI~rEs, AUG. 23-28, 1992of a transfer ule, and if the accumulated con-ditions of the transfer ules used are satisfied.
'Unification' in this definition is rattmr similar tograph unilication.q~ansfer rules specifying larger sets of terms canbe used to state trauslational equivalences for idiomsand fixed expressions.
Simple idioms present no par-ticular problem.
One translation of the English idiomto kick the bucket into Japanese is sinu 'die', and thiscan be represented by the transfer ulekick(K) $z.
obj(K,n) & the-bucket(B) ~ sinu(K)Fixed expressions, appropriate only to a specific con-text, may require conditions which refer to the dis-course representation.4 'Complex '  t rans fer4.1 Types  o f  complex  t rans ferLindop & Tsujii (1991) list and discuss a variety ofexamples that are alwaYs problematic for machinetranslation systems.
We suggest hat what makesthese examples difficult is that different dependencystructures are associated with otherwise synonymouslexical items.
We break the problem down into foursubparts.i) Argument-switching as in the t rans la t ion  of theGermanDer Wagen gef'~llt mir - -  I like the carThe car pleasen megefallen(E) & nora(O) & dat(S)like(E) & subj(S) & obj(O)In argument-switching, therelations between the lex-ical item and its dependents are not translated stan-dardly.
Although the German nominative normallycorresponds to an English subjcct, it must in this ex-ample be translated as a dative.it) IIead-switching as hi the t rans lat lo l t  of  Ger-n lantlaas sehwimmt gem - -  John likes swinmfingJohn swinm ~ladlylike(L) & obj(L,S)geru(L) & subj(L,S) iyshift(L,S)The Germau sentence is a description of a situationto do with swimming; the English is a description ofa situation to do with liking.
The shift predicate isexplained below.iii) Decomposition as in the  t rans la t ion  of theJapaneseJohn-ga jisatusita -.- John committed suicidejisatu_suru(E)commit(E) & suicide(S) & obj(E,S)llere the single Japanese word jisatusnrn is tra~l~-lated as the English phrase to commit suicide.
Sometypes of decomposition can give rise to special prob-lems when there arc modifiers or dependents involved.These are discussed in detail by Tsujii et al (1992),Shortage of space aml tile variety and complexity ofexamples prevents their discussion here.iv) ttaistng as in the t rans la t ion  of the  WelshFe ddigwydd rod Si6n ymahappells be ~l o|ln hereJohn happens to he heredigwydd(E1) ~ subj(E1,E2) & subj(E2,X).
-+ happen(E1) ,~ subj(E1,X) & obj(E1,E2)In the English, the subject of happen is John, but inthe Welsh, the subject of digwydd ('happen') is thesituation of John's being here.The predicate shift is introduced to define a trans-lation equivalence where certain dependencies are dif-ferently arranged in the target language, as comparedto the source language.
It can be understood in termsof semantic type-shifting - - the types are differentlydistributed in the source- and target-language logi-cal forms.
Shifl(H,E) means that in any instance ofsubj(H,X) or l'(X, tt) (where V stands tbr auy rela~tion) in the logical form representing the English text,the H corresponds to an E in the logical form repre-senting the other language.
The following exampleshows how the example under (it) above would workin practice.lch welt\] Hans schwimmt gern - i know John likesswmuningieh(i) me(i)--~en(wi know(w)sut,j(w,i) subj(w,i)ohj(w,s) obj(w,s)'Hans(j) John(j)sehwimmen(s) swim(s)s.bj(sj) suhj(iQ)gern(g) like(g)subj(g,s) obj(g,s){shift(s,g)}me(i)know(w)subj(w,i)obj(w,g)John(j)swim(s)'subj(gd)like(g)obj(g,s)The columns of the table show tile German sourcelogical form, the English logical form as it would bewithout shift, and tile actual English target logicalform.
The horizontal divisions of the table representthe fields of operation of separate transfer ules.4 .2  In teract ion  between types  o f  com-p lex t rans ferWhen several of these syntactic hanges are combinedin one example, the logical form resulting from trans-fer is incoherent.
The following examples are typeson which most, if not all, existing machine translationAcq~s DE COLING-92, NAN-I~S, 23-28 Aour 1992 6 8 I PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28.
1992systems will fail, as will the mechanism proposed hereso far.English - Welsh; raising with argument-switching:John happens to like swimmingfe ddigwydd fod yn dda gan John nofiohappens be nice by John swim(swimraing-bein~-nice-in-dohn's-opinion ccurs)Dutch - English; verb - head-switching twice:Jan zwemt grnag toevalligJohn Bwims gladly happeninglyJohn happens to like swimming(also 'John likes happening to swim~There are two separate causes of difficulty inthese examples.
Firstly, the long-distance movementcaused by raising canses problems in the transfer ofstructures which have been the target of raising.
Thesimplest way to get rmmd the problem is to requiresyntactically-deleted arguments o be marked explic-itly on all the verbs of wbich they are logical ar-guments, treating the phenomenon syntactically asan example of lexieally-triggered extraction, on a parwith the extractions of syntactic objects in a man Iknowand an easy man to please.
Transfer ules whichintroduce raising predicates will then have to bring inthe new subject explicitly.
For instance, the rule forhappen and digwydd, (iv) in ?4.1, will be re-writtenasdigwydd(E1) & subj(E1,E2)happen(E1) & subj(E1,X) & obj(E1,E2)iff subj(E2,X)The second point is that the shift predicate mustbe defined in such a way that it can cope with re-cursive changes in the dependency structure broughtabout by the occurrence of several interdependenthead-switching translations.
It seems that shift canbe made to do this simply by having e.g.
shifl(H,E)affect all instances of snbj(tl, X) or P(X,H) (includingshifl(X,H)) not transferred by the transfer ule whichintroduced the shift(ll, E).Together, these two stipulations enable the trans-fer of examples involving head-switching, argument-switching, raising, and most types of decomposition.5 Trans fer  o f  Coord inateS t ructures5.1 Problems in transfer of coordi-nate s t ructuresCoordination often reqnires exceptional treatment inparsing and generation of natural anguage.
Transferis no exception.
Transferring a coordinated structuresometimes produces a miserable result due to the ac-companying combination of structural changes or thefact that coordinated linguistic objects require differ-ent target words for a shared source word.
However,few attempts have been reported to formalize thisproblem.We here divide the problem into two categories: t?
Divergence in semantic onstraints?
Combination of complex transfersThe first type of problem occurs when semantic fea-tures of the coordinated source words require a sourceword to be translated into two different arget words.A typical example can be seen in translation of thefollowing English sentence into Japanese.
(la) Site wears a bat and shoes.
(lb) kanojo-ga boushi-wo kaburi, kutsu-woshe-suhj lmt-ohj wear shoe-objhaku.wearAs is understood from its translation, "wear" is trans-lated "kaburu" or "haku" in Japanese, depending onwhether its object is something worn on the head oron the foot(or leg).
This means that, in this example,coordination of objects in English should be alteredto that of verb phrases in Japanese.This type of knowledge for lexical choice is verycommon in a transfer or bi-lingual dictionary, andplays an essential role in lexical transfer of most cur-rent transfer-based MT systems.
The problem is thatueither a transfer program or a transfer-rule writerexpects such an awkward problem caused by coor-dination.
To translate "wear" iuto "kaburu" in theabove example, n rule writer may usually write thefollowing rule in our notationS:wear(X) ~ kaburu(X) iff obj(X,Y)&HAT(Y)But the condition part of this rule is implicitly ex-pected to be interpreted as follows.wear(X) ~ kaburn(X) iff V Y obj(X,Y)&;HAT(Y)The precise definition may change depending onhow the coordinate structure is represented.
But the1 There is eamther type of problem wlfich is baaed on the syn-tactic differences between coordination constructlom in sourcearid target languages.
For example, "2 or 3 potuld~" in En-glish should be trmmlated "2pondo ka 3 pondo'(2 poundJ or 3pounds} inJaF.mlese and "dwybunt ncn clair" (2 pounds or 3) inWelsh.
(The Welsh expression is used only for a sum of money.Another exists for weight.)
This type of problem tlaould altobe solved in transfer, but we do not  mention it here.2In this section, we coltsider t anslation whose source andtarget logical forms are on the left and right sides of a trantferrule.
For the sake of simplicity, trmasfer rules hereafter aredescribed as uni-directional ones.AC'TES DE COLING-92.
NANqT~.
23-28 Ao~r 1992 6 8 2 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES.
AUG. 23-28.
1992point is that "wear" may be trmmlated "kaburn" onlyif all the objects have a feature of being a "HAT".A simple transfer algoritlnn, for example, maychoose the target word when it finds the first ap-plicable transfer rule for a source word: this algo-rithm may produce "boushi-to kutsu-wo kaburu" forthe sentence (la), which memm that tile semantic re-lation between "wear" and "shoes" is ignored.
Theremay be another type of transfer algorithm which sim-ply fails beeanse it cannot provide two dilfcrent argetwords to one identical source word.The second type of the problem occurs when oneof the coordinated objects triggers a complex transferwhich is described in ?3.
This type of problem canbc seen in the following translation.lie connnitted nmrder then suicide.kare-ga satsujin-wo okaslfi, jisatsu-shita.he~subj murder-obj conmlit commit-ed suicideThis problem is more complicated than the previousone because complex ti'ansfer, in this example "many-to-one transfer", causes a structural change.
Our sim-ple transfer algorithm mentione<l in tile previous ec-tion may produce a disastrous result for this type oftranslation.There are several possible solntions to this problem.The simple.st one is that a transfer:rule writer writesall the transfer ules which explicitly describe everypossible sub-structure with coordination.
This is ofcourse unrealistic.Another solution is to make a transfer programwhich modifies the transfer esult dyuanfically when,tbr example, a source word is given two differeut ar:get words.
But such a dynamic modilication of tileresult during transfer is against our policy of logic:based transfer, because this means gradual transfor-mation of the source strueturc and therefore transfercannot be formalized as logical inference.5.2 'lYansfer with Coordinate Expan-s io l l5.2.1 C~xwdlnate Expans iontiereafter we concentrate on a case where coordinatedobjects of a verb cause the problem, though thereis apparently an example where other eases such a.~"snbj" cause the same problem.The basic reqnirement in logic-based transfer isthat coordination of objects should he reorganizedto that of verb phrases or sentences, which is notsupposed to cause problems in transfer.
We call thisreorganization "coordinate xpansion".The following is a part of logical form for (ta),which involves a coordinate structure.wear(w)&obj(w,o)&coord(o,ol)&hat(ol)&coord(o,o2)&shoe(o2)Input Logical FormUExpansi .
.
.
.
.
\[ Expandruleu \], ' runsler +- \[ Transfer ules \]gReductionOutput Logical Formt,'igure 2: Transfer with Coordinate ExpansionIn this form, o is a linguistic object, and a predi-cate coord represents a relation between the linguisticobject and its coustituents.
The following is a r~ultof expansion.coord(w,w 1)&we;tr(w 1)&obj(w l,n l)$zhat(ol)&coord(w,w2)&wear(w2)&obj(w2,o2)&shoe(o2)The most naive and simplest strategy usiug thisexpansion is to expand cvery coordination within asentence and rel)reseut i in sentcnce coordination be-fore transfer.
This transfer esult will be reorganizedagain into an appropriate representation f coordina-tion in tim target language.
But this solution seemsinefficient from the computatioual point of view beoettase caseswhere xpansion is uecessary are rare .Unnecessary expansion and reorganization of coordi-nate structures should be avoided.The strategy wc propose xecutes coordination ex-pansion only if it is necessary\[5\].
Figure 2 shows ageneral view of our modified approach to transfer.Transfer is divided into three phases; in the firstphase, logical forms are expanded if expand rnles (ex-plained below) find tim necessity of coordinate xpan-sion.
This process continues as long as the necessityremains.
In tile second phase, transfer described inprevious sections is executed.
Fiually, in the thirdphase, coordilmtion is reorganized if the target lan-guage has a more appropriate structure for coordi-nation than tile second phase result.
(Consider thetranslation of (lb).
Without reorganizing eoordina~ti(m, the transfer esult will contain two "wear"s .
)Tile following is all expand rule which detects thenecessity of expansion concerned with translation of"wearing a bat".wear(X)&obj(X,Y)&coord(Y,Y1)&llAT(Y1)&coord(Y,Y2)&YleY2&~HAT(Y2)- - -  expand(Y,X)ht tile rule, e~:pand(Y,X) means that coordinationof the level Y should be expanded to that of X. Thisrule suggests that coordinate xpansion is necessaryAClES DE COLING-92, NAI, CrEs, 23-28 AoI~r 1992 6 8 3 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AtnL 23-28, 1992if the object of "wear" is a coordinate structure, andone constituent is a HAT while another isn't.We assume that expand rules are produced auto-matically from transfer ules before the actual trans-fer operation.
The simplest way of extracting sucha rule refers only one transfer ule at one time.
Thismeans that the necessity of expansion can be detectednot by creating expand rules but by referring trans-fer rules in actual transfer phase.
But the formerapproach seems essential if we wish to optimize ex-pansion detection.5.2.3 Discuss ionOur coordinate xpansion detection works even if acoordinate structure has more than two constituents.What wc have to consider is an appropriate xpan-sion algorithm.
For example, in translating (4a),an appropriate xpansion should keep coordinationof "shoes" and "stockings", as shown in (4b), he-cause both satisfy a semantic onstraint on which thesystem chooses "haku" as the translation of "wear".Otherwise reorganizing a coordination i  the genera-tion phase is inevitable.5.2.2 Other  examplesExpand rules from a transfer ule which involves astructural change are little different in forms to theprevious ease.
The following are a transfer ule fortranslating "commit suicide" into Japanese and itsexpand rule.commit(X)&obj(X,Y)&suicide(Y)- -~  jisatsu..suru(X)commit(X)&obj(X,Y)&coord(Y,Y1)&suicide(Y1)&coord(Y,Y2)&Y l#Y2&--,suicide(Y2)expand(Y,X)Another example is the translation of the En-glish "HUMAN have ADJ NOUN" construction intoJapanese.
The sentence (2E) is translated (2J) usingthe rule (3).
(2E) She has beautiful eyes.
(2J) kanojo-no me-ga utsukushii.aho-poas eye-aubj beautiful(3) have(H)&subj(H,S)aobj(H,X)&mod(X,U)poss(X,S)&subj(M,X)iff ItUMAN(S)&PART_OF.BODY(X)(4a) She wears a hat, stockings and shoes.
(4b) She wears a hat and wears stockings and shoes.Reorganization of a coordination i  the target lan-guage does not only occur as outlined in the abovecase.
Since the coordinate xpansion is completelyseparate from the actual transfer process, transferrules which do not cause problems might be used.There is still a problem to be solved with regardto tile transfer of coordination with "expansion"; ex-pansion is not always straightforward.
There is of-ten a ease where coordinate xpansion is impossiblewithout deep understanding of the sentences, or it isimpossible in that it may change their semantic struc-tures.
For example, the sentence (5b) cannot be theexpansion of (5a) though it seems o at first glance.
(5a) I saw a group of men and women.
(5b) I saw a group of men and I saw a group of women.The apparent disadvantage of our approach with"expand rules" is that a large number of expansionrules might be created.
Though it provides an effi-cient way of detecting the necessity of expansion, itconsumes a lot of memory, which will raise an imple-mentation problem.This case is more complicated than the previousones because the transfer ule refers to two semanticfeatures.
Therefore we will get two expand rules, oneof which is the following rule.have(X)&subj(X,Y)&coord(Y,Y1)&HUMAN(Y1) &coord(Y,Y2)&Y I#Y2&-,H UMAN(Y2) &obj(X,Z) & rood(Z,_) & PART-OF-BODY(Z)expand(Y,X)In addition, we need another expand rule whichchecks another type of coordinate construction.
Thisrule will apply when the system translates "she haslong hair and beautiful eyes".have(X) & suhj(X,S) & HUMAN(S) & obj(X,Y)8* -,mod(Y,_) g~ coord(Y,Yl) & rood(Y1,_) &PART_OF_BODY(Y1)---+ expand(Y,X)6 Conclusion and future workIn this paper, we showed how complex structuralchanges in transfer are treated within our logic-basedtransfer mode\[, in which the target linguistic descrip-tion is obtained from tile source description in a non-destructive manner.
These type of structural changescause a problem when they co-occur and their trans-fer rules are interacted.
We also discussed a problemin transferring coordinate structures and presented anextended transfer model with coordinate xpansion.Some of our solutions to these problems are rathersimple and need further investigation when we applyour framework to a practical system.
We also have toevaluate our framework by examining a wider rangeof translation problems.One of our current concerns is to implement ourtransfer model in a parallel processing framework.Our current algorithm for transfer and its implemen-tation have a procedural aspect of operation.
ThatACRES DE COLJNG-92.
NANTES, 23-28 Ao~r 1992 6 8 4 Pgoc.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992is, the sense of "logic" in the name of our model llasnot been fully achieved.
We think that the searchfor parallel implementation will lead to "logic-basedtransfer" in the true sense.References\[1\] H.AIshawi, D.Carter and M.Rayner: 'qYansla-tion by Qua.st Logical Form Transfer', in Proc.of 29th A CL Conference, Berkeley, 1991.\[2\] C.Copeland, J.Durand, S.Krauwerand B.Maegaard: 'The Eurotra Linguistic Spec-ification', in Studies in Machine Translation andNatural Language Processing Vol.
1, Office forOfficial Publication of the European Commmli-ties, 1991\[3\] l{.Kaplan,K.Netter,.l.Wedekind and A.Zaenan:'Translations by Structural Correspondences', inProc.
of 4th European ACL Conference, Manch-ester, 1989.\[4\] S.Kinoshita nd J.Tsujii: 'l~amework for Incor-porating Knowledge into Machine Translation',in Proc.
of International Workshop on Funda-mental Research for the Future Generation ofNatural Language Processing, Kyoto, 1991.\[5\] S.Kinoshita: Transfer of Coordinate Structures,CCL/UMIST Report 91/13, 1991.\[6\] J.Lindop and J.Tsujii: Complez 7~'aasfer in MT:A Survey of Examples, CCL/UMIST Report91/5, 1991.\[7\] S.Nirenburg: Machine Translation, CambridgeUniversity Press, 1987.\[8\] J.D.Phillips, K.Yoshimura, K.Dohsaka and J.Tsujii: 'Linguistic Context for Machine Trans-lation', in Proc.
of SICONLP '90, Seoul, 1990.\[9\] J.D.Phillips: An Architecture for Machine7~nslation, CCL/UMIST i~port 92/7, 1992.\[10\] S.Sato and M.Nagao: 'Memory-based Transla-tion', in Proe.
of COLING 90, llelsinki, 1990.\[11\] J.Tsujii and K.Fujita: 'Lexical Transfer basedon Bilingual Signs: Towards interaction duringtransfer', in Proc.
of 5th European ACL Confer-ence, Berlin, 1991.\[12\] G.van Noord, J.Dorrepaal et al 'The MiMo2Research System', in Proc.
of the 3rd Interna-tional Conference on Theoretical and Method-ological ssues in Machine Translation, Austin,1990.\[13\] If.
Watanabe: 'A Model of a Transfer ProcessUsing Combinations of Transfer Rules', in Proc.of PRICAI '90, 1990.ACTES OE COLING-92, NANT,~S, 23-28 AO(3T 1992 6 8 5 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES.
AUO.
23-28.
1992
