The Automatic Creation of Lexical Entries for a Multilingual MTSystemDavid Farwell, Louise Guthrie and Yorick WilksComputing Research LaboratoryBox 30001New Mexico State UniversityLas Cruces, NM 88003-0001ABSTRACTIn this paper, we describe a method of extractinginformation from an on-line resource for theconsmaction of lexical entries for a multi-lingual,interlingual MT system (ULTRA).
We havebeen able to automatically generate lexicalentries for interlingual concepts corresponding tonouns, verbs, adjectives and adverbs.
Althoughseveral features of these entries continue to besupplied manually we have greatly decreased thetime required to generate ach entry and see thisas a promising method for the creation of large-scale lexicons.1.
IntroductionFor some time, researchers in Computa-tional Linguistics and Natural Language Process-ing (NLP) have eyed machine-readable dic-tionaries with interest because they might pro-vide a practical resource for overcoming the"lexical acquisition bottleneck".
Many research-ers, however, view this problem of lexicalacquisition as too difficult to solve at presentusing a machine-readable dictionary, and theresult has been that the focus of much researchhas shifted to identifying the kind of informationneeded in NLP lexicons \[Atkins, 1990; Miike,1990; McNaught, 1990; Normier & Nossin,1990; Nirenburg et al, 1990; Hanks, 1991;Pustejovsky & Bergler, 1990; Warwick, 1990;Kay, 1989\], the goat being eventually to create alexical data base that will allow the creation of alexicon to be used for processing naturallanguage.
While we agree that it is unlikely thatthe information in machine-readable dictionariesis sufficient for this grand data base of facts thatwill support NLP as a whole, we are optimisticabout making use of the information they doprovide to support he creation of lexical enU'iesfor specific natural language processing systems.In this paper, we present initial results which arespecifically related to extracting informationautomatically from entries in the Longman Dic-tionary of Contemporary English (LDOCE), inorder to construct lexical entries for the ULTRAmultilingual machine translation system.We give an overview ofthe ULTRAMachine Translation System and its lexicon(focusing on the information requirements of itslexical entries), and then discuss the lexical entryconstruction process.
Finally, we offer somesuggestions for fully automating the entire pro-c~ss.2.
ULTRAULTRA (Universal Language TRAnslator)is a multilingual, interlingual machine transla-tion system which currently translates betweenfive languages (Chinese, English, German,Japanese, Spanish) with vocabularies in eachlanguage based on about 10,000 word senses.
Itmakes use of recent AI, linguistic and logic pro-gramming techniques, and the system's majordesign criteria are that it be robust and general inpurpose, with simple-to-use utilities for customi-zation.Its special features include:a multilinguat system with a language-independent system of intermediaterepresentations (interlingual representa-tions) for representing expressions as ele-ments of linguistic acts;Ac'res DE COLING-92.
NANTes, 23-28 AOU'r 1992 S 3 2 PRec.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28.
1992- bidirectional Prolog grammars for eachlanguage incorporating semantic and prag-matic constraints;use of relaxation techniques to providerobustness by giving preferable or "nearmiss" translations;access to large machine-readable dic-tionaries to give rapid scaling up of sizeand coverage;?
multilingual text editing within X-windowsinterface for easy interaction and documentpreparation i  specific domains (e.g., busi-ness letters, pro-forlna memoranda, telexes,parts orders).Below is a sample screen from the ULTRAsystem.
Each of the Spanish sentences in the"SOURCE TEXT" window have been translatexlinto Japanese.
The system has ~cut and paste"facilities which allow a sentence from tim sourcetext to be moved to the bottom left "SOURCESENT:" window where it can then be translatedby selecting a target language from the choicesabove the "TRANSLATION" window (bottomright) and choosing the "TRANSLATE" buttonat the bottom of the screen.
The translation thenappears in the bottom right "TRANSLATION"window.
From there, the translation can then bemoved to the "TARGET TEXT' window.La n.Ia ra ~ ~ l:n#..a n~_.M arade ,lmSa.~m.~a," - .
.
, -~mue.L~tvnta~ttem~,#.mnt=M.~_,~.~ 2.~.t, ~ .
.~-~1~ .~.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
r1ACRES DE COLING-92, NAN'rI.kS, 23-28 hoot" 1992 5 3 3 IIROC.
OF COLING-92.
NAr~"rES, AUG. 23-28, 1992The System of Intermediate RepresentationThe interlingual representation (IR) hasbeen designed to reflect our assumption thatwhat is universal about language is that it isused to perform acts of communication: askingquestions, describing the world, expressing one'sthoughts, getting people to do things, warmngthem not to do things, promising that things willget done and so on.
Translation, then, can beviewed as the use of the taaget language to per-form the same act as that which was performedusing the source language.
The IR serves as thebasis for analyzing or for generating expressionsas elements of such acts in each of the languagesin the translation system.The representation has been formulated oilthe basis of an on-going cross-linguistic com-parative analysis of hand-generated translationswith respect o the kinds of information eces-sary for selecting the appropriate forms ofequivalent expressions in the different languagesin the system.
We have looked at a number ofdifferent types of communication includingexpository texts, business letters, and e-mailmessages and dialogues.
This, coupled with thefact that the languages elected for the initialdevelopment s age are of differem historical andtypological background, has led to a solid foun-dation for developing a flexible and completedescriptive framework.The Language ComponentsEach individual language system isindependent of all other language systems withinULTRA.
Corresponding sentences in differentlanguages must produce the same IR and anyspecific 1R must generate corresponding sen-tences in the five languages.
However, the par-ticular approach to parsing or generation whichis used m each of the languages may differ.Each language has its own procedures for associ-ating the expressions of the language with theappropriate IRs.
These independent systemscommunicate by handing each other IRs, and noactual transfer takes place.Independence of the language-particularsystems is of both theoretical mid practicalinterest.
Given the required equivalence of theinput-output behavior of each of the languagesystems, this paradigm is excellent for compar-ing various approaches to parsing or generationfor their coverage aim efficacy.A new language may be added to the trans-lation system at any time without unpredictableor negative side effects on the previouslydeveloped language systems, or on the system'soverall performance.Furthermore, the addition of any newlanguage system will have the effect of multiply-ing the number of language pairs in the transla-tion system by the number of languages alreadyin the system (having developed an English-Japanese system, we need only develop theSpanish module to have an English-Spanish ys-tem and a Japanese-Spanish ystem, and soforth).At present, we have developed five proto-type language systems for ULTRA.
Each sys-tem has been implemented in PROLOG as abidirectional parser/generator.
That is to say, ina given language system, the same algorithm isused to do either the analysis or the generationof the expressions of the language.The system is capable of handling a widerange of phenomena, including compound andcomplex sentences, relative clauses, complexnoun phrases, questions (yes-no and Wh types)and imperatives.
~lllere will always be certainclasses of non-standard input (e.g.
"Where sta-tion?")
which fall outside the system's normalcapabilities and to deal with such irregular input,we are developing a number of techniques whichtogether we call "relaxation".
Our assumptionis that if a given stying or IR cannot be success-fully processed even though all the lexical itemsare available in the system, it should be repro-cessed with the various constraints ystemati-cally weakened.ULTRA 'S LexiconsThere are two types of entries related tothe specification of a lexical item in the ULTRAsystem: those for intermediate representation(IR) word sense tokens, and those for the wordsof the individual languages.Currently, there are eight IR word sensecategories including entities (often correspond-ing to nouns), relations (often corresponding toverbs and adjectives), entity specifiers (oftencorresponding to determiners), relation specifiers(often corresponding to auxiliaries), case rela-tions (often corresponding to prepositions), pro-AcrEs DE COLING-92.
NAN'rl;s. 23-28 Ao~r 1992 S 3 4 PRoc.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992position specifiers (often corresponding to com-plementizers), proposition modifiers (oftencorresponding to sentential adverbials), and con-junctions.
Each category is associateA with aspecial set of constraints which ranges innumber fiom one for sentential adverbs, to ninefor relations.
The number of lexical categoriesfor the individual language lexicons varies fromeight to fourteen.
There is no simple correspon-dence between the language-particular lexieaicategories and the IR categories although thegross relationships stated above appear to hold.All entries take the general form of simpleProlog unit clauses in (12):(12) category (Form, F1, F2, ...).where FI, F2 and so on, are constraints.
Forlanguage-particular entries, these arc gener',dlysyntactic constraints associated with an ortho-graphic form, Form, such as the gender of anoun, whether a verb is reflexive, and so on.For example, (13) is a simplified and readableversion of a Spanish enlxy for the noun banco.113) noun (banco, thirdsingular, masculine,bank4_ 1 ).Similarly, (14) is a Spanish entry for the verbingreso:(14) verb (ingreso, thirdsingular, finite, past,simple, indicative, active, depositl 3).The final argument represents he IR word sensethe Spanish form is used to express.
This sensetoken is associated with a sense definition inLDOCE and is used to index the correspondingIR entry.For IR entries, tbe features FI, F2, and soon, correspond to universal semantic and prag-matic constraints on the word sense, Form, suchas the classification of an entity as countable ornot, the semantic ase structure of a relation, andso on.
For example the IR entry for bank4 1would look something like:(15) entity (bank4_l, class, countable, institu-tion, abstract_object, economicsbanking).while the IR entxy for depositl 3 would looklike:(16) relation (depositl_3, dynamic, placing,agent, patient, human, amount, human,abstract _object, economies_banking).3.
The Automatic Construction of LexiealItemsThe work on automating lexieal entry hasdrawn upon extensive research at the ComputingResearch Laboratory in deriving semantic strue-threes automatic',dly fiom large machine-readabledictionaries \[Slator, 1988; Wilks & Slator, 1989;Guthfie eL al 1990\].
Much of the core IR lexi-con has been deiived fi'om the 72,000 wordsenses in LDOCE.
Codings fi'om the dictionaryfor such properties as semantic ategory, seman-tic preferences and so on have been used, eitherdirectly o~ indirectly, to generate partialspecifications of some 10,000 IR tokens for thesystem.The partially antomated lexical entry pro-eess proceeds in three steps: 1) given a sense inLDOCE, an entry is constructed by a process ofautomatic extraction and formatting of intorma-tion in the foml of a standardized ata structure,2) any remaining unspecified information in thatstructure is provided interactively, followed by3) the automatic mapping from the fuUyspecified data structure to the corresponding Pro-log facts.
Step 3) is very straightfolward andwill not be de,scribed here.
Below we give ashort description of LDOCE and then discuss thetechniques we have used to accomplish steps 1)and 2).LDOCEThe Longman Dictionary of ContemporaryEnglish \[Procter et al, 1978\] is a filll-sized dic-tionary designed for learners of English as asecond language.
It contains 41,122 headwordenwies, defined in terms of 72,177 word senses,m machine-readable form (a type-setting tape).With few exceptions, the definitions in LDOCEare stated using a control vocabulary of approxi-mately 2,(X)0 words.
The eonn'ol vocabularywords tend to bc highly ambiguous (approxi-mately 17,000 senses are listed in LDOCE fortile 2,1X~.)
s?clling forms).Both tile book and tape versions ofLDOCE use a system of grammatteal codes ofabout 1111 syntactic (sub)categories which varyin generality.
Nouns, for example, may beassigned categories nch as noun, or counl-nollnor count-noun-followed-by-infinitive-with-TO, orvocative-noun-used-in-direct-address.
The syn-tactic categories for verbs are particularly exten-Acres Dr COLING.92, NANa'~, 23-28 AOOT 1992 5 3 5 P~oc:.
ol: COLING-92, Nhbrrt!s, At~6.23-28, 1992sire and include categories uch as transitive-verb-followed-by-the-infinitive-without-TO.In addition, the machine-readable v rsionof LDOCE contains codes which are not foundin the book and among them are codes whichspecify the semantic lass of a noun (as one of34 categories) and the semantic preferences onthe complements of verbs and adjectives.From LDOCE to a Partially Specified EntryThe mapping process from LDOCE toULTRA word sense entries assumes a particularlinguistic context.
All the information containedin the LDOCE defimtion is automaticallyextracted and used in the appropriate ULTRAspecification.
For some parts of speech (e.g.,nouns), most of the information stored in theinterlingual entry can be ex~acted automatically;for others (e.g., verbs and adjectives), only aportion of the information isavailable.For this project we began with a Lisp ver-sion of LDOCE, which formats the informationfrom the type-setting tape \[Boguraev et at.,1987\].
To date, we have extracted informationfrom LDOCE nouns for specifying IR entries forentities, from verbs and adjectives for specifyingIR entries for relations, and from adverbs forspecifying IR entries for relation modifiers andproposition modifiers.
These are the major openclass categories of IR word sense tokens andconstitute over 95% of the tokens defined thusfar.
Below we summarize the informationrequired by the categories corresponding tonouns and to verbs (the information which iscurrently provided automatically is marked by@).Entities:@ the sense token indexes a correspondingI.DOCE word sense definition,@ whether it is a class term, the name of anindividual, or an anaphoric element,@ whether it is countable or not,?
the semantic lass,@ the LDOCE semantic class,@ the LDOCE subject domain;Below is a sample screen of the interactive ses-sion for completing the IR lexical entry for onesense of "bank" in LDOCE.
The first screen iscreated automatically and completed manually toproduce the see?rid screen~Ind ia ?
~ t t mLnxic?i FecN(Count nt~n)Iii tdum: bmk4J.ca~:  mtttya~eaJt~-~; count.able?1 M"cl?ssIldoc~ c l~:  ahs~oct_ob.Jnctldaca damln~ mlcs .
.hanktn l ih i lah  control: Aw-/Mtat/llltr~2/m~t~t.z~txt,,Idoc~~ ~ ?
?.arrtm- Imteonn lacks In the cttWRI t~c=:  m~= 0 atzyptaslneacnwdt?t.m I I~-~mta~mI.macll Far~mun)III tdtmZ Im~d_lmt t~mt~u~r~Z cmnt~lot'y~g clmnJe lm:  tmtl la~|t~ldoce cim: abstract.obJectldo?o do~|n: talcs.banking~!1~ ~nt~t: /u~r / .
t~ l l l t ra2 / .mn.~/ t~.
ld~urkld ~ ?
ccrtm" I~aam Ignke In the a|tVAc'r~s Dl~ COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AolIr 1992 5 3 6 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992Note that for entities (nouns) only one feature,described above as "the semantic lass," is notprovided automatically from LDOCE.
This fieldcorresponds to the semantic ategories used inULTRA prior to the use of LDOCE forautomatic extraction.
These categories werehand crafted, based on surface lingnisticphenomena and are used to satisfy the semanticpreferences of adjectives and verbs.
Theautomatically created entries tot entities containthe LDOCE semantic categories as well, butthese will not be used by ULTRA until we haveexamined the consistency of the LDOCEcategories as a basis for semantic preferences.Relations:@ the sense token indexes a correspondingLDOCE word sense definition,?
whether it is stative or dynamic,?
the semantic class,@ the number of case roles,?
the case roles,?
the semantic preferences for the fillers ofthe case roles,@ the LDOCE semantic preferences for thefillers of the case roles,@ the LDOCE subject domain;In the case of relations, LDOCE does not pro-vide case roles or semantic lasses (for verbs), ora direct marking as to whether a verb is stativeor dynamic.
We have developed a verb hierar-chy from LDOCE, based on the genus (hyper-nym) of a verb definition, and are in the processof disambiguating the terms in this hierarchy.These then will be used as the verb classes forULTRA's relations.
We have been able toextract case role information in some cases\[Wilks et al; 90\] from implicit information inLongman's and will include this in the lexicalentxies.
Again the semantic preferences for thefillers of the case roles are those originally usedin ULTRA.
As in the case of entities above, theLDOCE semantic preferences are also includedin the entry for future use.Extraction is performed by applying asequence of flex programs (a new generationversion of the UNIX lexical analyzer utility, lex)which transform information from the LDOCELisp format into a Lisp association list, the datastructure used by the interactive lcxical entryinterface for the ULTRA system (sample screensappear in the previous ecton).The word senses added to file ULTRA sys-tem using these techniques were chosen first onthe basis of whether they were exemplified inthe dictiona~ 3, entry, and second, whether theywere one of the first three senses of a givenhomonym (the LDOCE senses are listed in orderof frequency of use).
Files containing thedefinitions of all noun.
verb, adverb and adjec-tive senses for which there were example sen-tences were first automatically generated.
Anadditional file containing example sentencestagged by the word sense being exemplified wasalso created.
Next, association lists conespond-ing to IR entries fur each of the word senseswere generated.
Finally, another procedure wasapplied which automatically supplied a pointerto the example context in the example sentencefile.4.
Approaches to Achieving Full SpecilicationIt was clear at the outset of this project hata great deal of lexical acqttisition could be doneautomatically and we have initiated projects toinvestigate whether the missing information canbe identified automatically through furtheranalysis of the defintions, examples, gramatic'dlcategories, etc.Finally, in order to automate the construc-tion of lexical items fully on the fly during trans-lation, procedures must be defined to selectspecific senses on the basis of the sourcelanguage linguistic context of the item beingdefined.
Similarly, procedures must bedeveloped to automatically ,specify the differentlanguage-pazlicular lexical entries (these pro-cedures do exist in English to a limited extent),and these must be adapted to other langnages.Finally, tecbniques for using bilingual dic-tionaries in the language-specific lexicalspecification process must be developed.ReferencesAtkins, B.
(1990) The dynamic database, a col-laborative methodology for developing alarge-scale lectronic dictionary.
Proceed-ings of the International Workshop onElectronic Dictionaries, Japan ElectronicDictionary Research Institute, Ltd., Oiso,Japan.Boguraev, B., T. Briscoe, J, Carroll, D. Carter,and C. Grover.
(1987) lqhe derivation of aACl'ES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt';r 1992 5 3 7 PROC.
of.. COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992grammatically indexed lexicon from theLongman Dictionary of ContemporaryEnglish.
Proceedings of the 25th AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, pp.
193-200.Guthrie, L., B. Slator, Y. Wilks and R. Bruce(1990) Is there content in empty heads?Procedings of the 15th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics(COLING-90) Helsinki, Finland pp.
138-143.Hanks, P. (1991) The role of dictionaries inlanguage engineering, an Oxford view,Preprint.Huang, X-M. (1988) Semantic analysis inXTRA, an English--Chinese machine ~ans-lation system.
Computers and Translation,3:1, pp.
101-120.Jin, W., and R. Simmons.
(1986) SymmetricRules for Translation of English andChinese.
Computers and Translation, 1:3,pp.
153-167.Kay, M. (1989) The concrete lexicon and theabslxact dictionary.
Proceedings of the 5thAnnual Conference of the UW Centre forthe New Oxford English Dictionary,Oxford, England, pp.
35-41.Miike, S. (1990) How to define concepts forelectronic dictionaries.
Proceedings of theInternational Workshop on Electronic Dic-tionaries, Japan Electronic DictionaryResearch Institute, Ltd., Oiso, Japan.McNaught, J.
(1990) Re-usability of lexical andterminological resources: steps towardsindependence.
Proceedings of the Interna-tional Workshop on Electronic Dic-tionaries, Japan Electronic DictionaryResearcfi Institute, Ltd., Oiso, Japan.Nagao, M., J-C. Tsujii, and J-C.
Nakamura.
(1985) The Japanese government projectfor machine translation.
ComputationalLinguistics, 11:2-3, pp.
91-110.Nirenburg, S., L. Carlson, I. Meyer, and B.Onyshkevych.
(1990) Lexicons for KBMT.Proceedings of the International Workshopon Electronic Dictionaries, Japan Elec-tronic Dictionary Research Institute, Ltd.,Oiso, Japan.Normier, B. and M. Nossin.
(1990) Genelexproject: Eureka for linguistic engineering.Proceedings of the International Workshopon Electronic Dictionaries, Japan Elec-l~onic Dictionary Research Institute, Ltd.,Oisu, Japan.Pereira, F., and D. Warren.
(1980) DefiniteClause Grammars for language analysis: -asurvey of the formalism and a comparisonwith augmented transition etworks.
Artif-icial Intelligence, 13, pp.
231-278.Procter, P., R. Ilson, J. Ayto, et al (1978)Longman Dictionary of ContemporaryEnglish.
Harlow, UK: Longman GroupLimited.Pustejovsky, J., and S. Bergler.
(1987) Theacquisition of conceptual structure for thelexicon.
Proceedings of the 6th NationalConference on Artificial Intelligence, pp.556-570.Slator, B.
(1988) Lexical semantics and Prefer-ence Semantics analysis.
Memoranda inComputer and Cognitive Science, MCCS-88-143, Computing Research Laboratory,New Mexico State University, Las Cruces,New Mexico.Uszkoreit, H. (1986) Categorial UnificationGrammars.
Report 66, Center for theStudy of Language and Information, Stan-ford, CA.Warwick, S. (1990) Automated lexical resourcesin Europe: a survey.
University of Genevaworking paper.Wilks, Y., D. Fass, C. Guo, J. McDonald, T.Plate, B. Slator (1990).
Providing MachineTractable Dictionary Tools.
Journal ofMachine Translation, 2.
Also to appear inTheoretical and Computational Issues inLexical Semantics, J. Pustejovsky (Ed.
)AcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES.
23-28 Aot~' 1992 5 3 8 PROC.
Or COL1NG-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992
