Recent  Mode l -Based  and  Mode l -Re la ted  S tud ies  o f  a Large  Sca leLex ica l  Resource  \ [Roget ' s  Thesaurus lSally Yeates SedelowProfessor, Computer Science,University of Arkansas (UA)/Little Rock;Adjunct Professor, Electronics and Instrumentation,UA/Graduate Institute of TechnologyUSAWalter A. Sedelow, Jr.Professor, Computer Science, University ofArkansas (UA)/Little Rock;Adjunct Professor, Electronics and Instrumentation,UA/Graduate Institute of Technology; AdjunctProfessor, UA/College of MedicineUSA(This research & supported by Grant*lRI-9114068 from The National ScienceFoundation.
)In an era when knowledge, if not king, iscertainly an equal partner with the methodologiesdirected toward such eminently desirable goals ascomputer-based commonsense reasoning andunderstandingqn-general, large-scale resources uchas Roget's ~ self-evidently am necessary toadvanced knowledge-based computational systems.In contrast to such efforts as Lenat's to recreateencyclopedic resources to fit currently popularcognitive and computational models, our researchemphasis has been upon models and programs whichneatly finesse re-creation by making explicit andaccessible such resources as people already processeffectively and use effeclively.
Other major researchsites and groups now sham this orientation, and weexpect that our research team's recent work withvarious aspects of our model will be of particularinterest to them.
Specifically, we wish to report hereon three different interpretations of a component ofour topological model (Bryan, 1973, 1974), appliedto its instamiation, ~ International ~ l l l l~ ,3rd edition (1962).The model, itself, has been describedextensively elsewhere (e.g., Sedelow and Sedeiow,1986, 1987).
For this discussion, we need definitionsof an Entry, Word, and Category, as well as of aType 10 Chain.
In the model, a thesaurus, T, is atriple <E,W,C> wheret) E is a non-null, finite set;ti) W and C are non-nuU collections ofsubsets of E;iii) distinct elements of W am disjoint, anddistinct elements of C are disjoint;iv) given any e~E, eew for some wEW and e~;C for some cEC;v) given weW and ceC, w^c ~ 1.Elements of E are called F,.a_tfl_e&, elements of W amcalled ~KO~, and elements of C are called F,.8lR, go.II~.
(Bryan, 1973)'Navigation' within the thesaurus can taketwo basic routes: 1. it can depend upon the explicithierarchy, comprising seven to nine levels(depending upon how fine-grained the distinctionsare); 2. it can move cross-hierarchieally from onecategory to others.
Within the second type ofnavigation, those cross-hierarchical 'hops' of grealestinterest to us are enabled by the multiple occurrence(multilocality property) of given "words" (stringswith identical spelling, wldch do not necessarily havethe same meaning).The model defines the cross-hierarchicalform of navigation in terms of Chains, as well as,within Chain types, Stars and Neighborhoods.Chains range from Type 1, file least restricted, toType 10, tile most restricted.
They consist of entries,each of which represents he intersection of a Wordand a Category.
As might be expected, a Type 1Chain consists of any group of entries.
At the otherend of the restriction scale is the Type 10 Chain,which must be beth word-s~ong and category-strong.Categories are said to be ~ connected if theyhave at least two words in common, and words amstrongly connected if they have at least twocategories in common.
Intuitively, one sees that theconvergence of words and categories In theThesaurus represents a selection of art appropriatesemantic sub-space (meaning) within a largersemantic space representing multiple meanings(ambiguities).
We have spoken and writtenACRES DE COLING-92.
NAmeS.
23-28 Atilt 1992 1 2 2 3 PRt.){:.
OF COLING-92.
NAMES.
AUG. 23-28.
1992elsewhere about the application of this model to anumber of natural-language computational tasks, allof which confirmed our (originally weak) belief thatthe ~ is a quite good model of 'normal' wordassociation patterns in English (Brady, 1988, 1991;Patrick, 1985; S. Sedeiow, 1985; Sedelow andSedelow, In Press; W. Sedelow, 1988; Warfel, 1.972).It is, nonethetess, desirable to study the impact ofvarious interpretations of the model upon the model'srepresentational strengths (and weaknesses); that isthe focus of this presentation.Victor Jacuzzi, our graduate student, has justcompleted a comparison of two approaches to Type10 Chain semantic decomposition f the ~ .Both approaches i olate quartets of words (slxingquartets) which represent s rong connections betweencategories and words; (in these interpretations of theBryan model, categories are taken to be the groupingsof words in the ~ bounded by semicolons,the lowest level of grouping in the explicit hierarchy),For example, in the T-Graph in Figure 1, Entries 1, 2,6, and 4 form a quartet in which Categories 2 and 5have two Words, W~ and W2, in common and WordsW~ and W 2 have Categories C 2 and C 5 in common.C1 c2 c3 c4 c5wtE1 E 2W2 J,E~ E 4 E~ I E6W3W 4W~z,Figure 1.In the earlier study (Talburt and Mooney,1989, now validated by Jacuzzi, 1991), if any enlryforming the quartet functioned as an entry in a~CgJKI (or third, etc.)
quartet, then the second quartetbecame a part of the Type 10 component identifiedby the first quartet, etc.
Much of the time, thisapproach adequately discriminates amonghomographs, as well as discriminating among wordsenses (and parts ol speech within senses).
Forexample, examination of Jacuzzi's recent validationof the Talburt-Mooney results (Jacuzzi's validationutilized an independently developed algorithm)shows the following apropos "nosy" and relatedwords: one component consists of "nosy," "prying,"and "snoopy," all adjectives at the intersection of themeanings Intrusion (#237 in the gJlgiiFdl hierarchy)and Curiosity (#526); another component consists ofthe words "nosy," "odorous," "smelling,""smeUsome," "smellful," smelly," and "whlffy" alladjectives at the intersection of the meanings Odor(#434) and Malodor (#436).
Clearly, the homograph"nosy" is separated out into distinct meanings by thealgorithm.
Now, to explore the second semanticsubspace a little further, we find that the noun,"odorousness" (see the adjective "odorous" above) isgrouped with the norm "smelliness" (again, seeabove) in another intersection of Odor (#434) andMalodor (#436).
But yet another grouping, usingOdor (#434) as a departure point, links the adjective"odoriferous" with the adjective "redolent," supplyingan intersection with Fragrance (#435).
Hence, thecontrasting, more pleasant sense related to "odor" isalso singled out by the algorithm.Many analogous groupings could be cited asexemplifications of the utility of this approach forappropriate word sense identification.
Nonetheless,when looking for the output of the validationprogram, it is impossible to ignore a reason for ourdesire to have such a validation: one enormouscomponent comprising 22,431 entries.
Although atracing of the links among rite quartets pulling allthese entries together would doubtless show anassociatively plausible link between each component,the sum total of these components rangesunacceptably across too many domains; obviously,discrimination of any useful sort, not to mention finegranularity discrimination, is hardly the apposite termfor a group of this size.Faced with this anomaly, Jacuzzi thenproposed a restriction on the Talburt-Mooney quartetapproach: henceforth, at least two words or at leastcategories In the original quartet must appear inthe second quartet in order for the second to beincluded in a component with the first.
Theimplementation f this algorithm produced markedlydifferent results.
In both cases, as would beexpected, the number of individual quartets was thesame: 59,541.
From this number, the originalalgorithm yielded 5,960 components, whereas theJacuzzi algorithm produced 10,341 components.
InACRES DE COLING-92, NANqT..S, 23-28 Ao(~"r 1992 I 2 2 4 Fade.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUC,.
23-28, 1992the original algorithm, the seven largest componentswere, in ascending order: 120 entries, 134, 143, 200,210, 229, and 22,431.
By comparison, the Jacuzzialgorithm produced the following: 282, 388, 427,469, 491,705, and 1490.hlspection shows that the set of the largestJacuzzi components ('all of those just listed plusothers) represent 'breakouts' from the 22,431 entrycomponent produced by the original algorithm.Jacuzzi's largest component (1490 entries) has as itslargest group words encapsulating intersections ofhostility, irritation, disasters, turmoil (includingnoise), and physicai competition (as in "bout").Smaller sets including terms having to do with, forexample, direction (aim, ambit, circle, etc.)
seempuzzling at first; but in this case, for example, theword "course" ties to "flood" which intersects withthe disaster terms.
Another small set including wordshaving to do with "manner" and "mode" ties to wordsintersecting with the sense "irritation."
Hence thislargest Jacuzzi component is clearly explicable,although a further estriction, either on the algoritlmLor on the component produced, might seem desirablefor adequate selection of certain semantic subspaces.
(It should be noted here that although thehas performed remarkably well on a range of tasksand data types, we certainly don't claim that It is'perfect.'
Investigations such as tiffs point the way topossible modifications; but, given the quality ofmuch of the output based solely on the model andalgorithms interpreting it, we strongly feel thatmodifications should be made with caution.
Even asit stands, the ~ provides a very goodfoundation on which to build.
)To take another example from the 'break-out'of the 22,431 entry component, he Jacuzzi outputgave the following group: Geist, bosom, breast,bottom of the heart, cockles of the heart, heart, I~eart'score, inmost heart, heart of hearts, inmost soul, mind,secret recesses of the heart, soul, spirit.
Thisgrouping seems internally consistent, a result ypicalof the smaller groups as well as of ,some of the largestin this restricted algorithm's output; (for example, theJacuzzi component with 388 entries was consistentlyconcerned with the seuse carried by words such as"abhorrent," "abominable," "atrocious," etc.
)Having looked at tile high end of the scale,what about groupings with small ~mmbers of entries?First, we should note the comparative lmmbers: forfour-entry components, the Jacuzzi algorithmproduced 6584 components, compared with 3372 inhis validation of the other algorithm; for fix-entrycomponents, the comparison is 1789 to 925; foreight-entry components, 700 to 342; for nine-entrycomponents, 47 to 163; for ten-entry components,350 to 171, and for eleven-entry components, 35 to92.
Our primary concern here is whether the furtherrestriction hurts us all in the sense that the semanticsubspaces so identified are too small to be useful forinformation retrieval, concept extraction, etc.Although a final answer awaits renewed efforts atapplications, prelindnary inspection suggests thatalthough a four-entry component won't lead usbeyond two closely-related terms (remember thatrepeated "words" within repeated "categories"\[semi-colon groups\] form the strong ties giving us theType 10 definition), at least we certainly won't be ledastray.
Some examples: abreast-alongside;abrade-rub off; Gaucho-vaquero; Fritz-Jerry; Zerohour-H-hour; heaven-providence;Hephaestus-Vulcan; abandon-abandonment(intersection of Freedom and Vice);abandonment-renunciation (intersection ofSubnlission and Relinquishment); abandon-quit(intersection of Departure, Abandonment, andInsufficiency).Referring back to Figure 1, it can beobserved that entry E7 (W 4, C2) does not torm part ofa quartet, and thus would not be picked up by eitheralgorithm.
But given the interpretation of C 2 as asemicolon group and given the fact that thesemicolon group level provides in the explicithierarchy the most closely related grouping of wordssemantically, it may well be desirable to includeentry E7 in the component.
Bryan's model providesfor such inclusion at the Type 9 Chain level(connections must be ~ word-strong orcategory-strong) and we plan to inveadgate thedecomposition of the ~ using that point ofdeparture.
We also have begun work wtth latticerepresentations, in cooperation with Professor Dr.Rudolph Wille and his colleagues at tim TechnischeHochschule, Dmnstadt, but that exploration is toopreliminary to report on here.Another of our graduate students, John Old,has used the concept of "l~ype 10 chains in a way ofexamining, among other properties, thecross-referencing system in the ~ .
That is,first using output produced by the earlier of the twoACTF~ DE COLING.92, NANTES, 23-28 AOL'r 1992 1 2 2 5 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES.
AUG. 23-28, 1992different 'quartet' approaches for the word "lead," hehas then turned to eross-referencing to providesemantic maps showing cormcctodness (and lack ofcormeetedness) among various senses of the word.His comparison of Type I0 output, cross-referencinginformation, and the index in the printed ~aurnswith reference to meanings of "lead" is documentedin Old (1991a).More recently, Old (1991b) has compared"over" (i) as defined associationally in the ~ ,(ii) as defined through "definitions" in the~ ,  and (iii) tlu:ough "CognitiveTopology and Lexical Networks" by Brngman andLakoff (1988).
His approach to the analysis of "over"in the ~ was first to identify all semicolongroups in which "over" occurs.
This process resultedin twenty-two senses (nodes in the network heconstructed).
Links between the nodes were wordsrepeated in two or more of the semicolon groupscontaining "over".
Hence, in his example, the word"on" in the groups "over, on, on top of," and "over,on, upon" would form the link between the groups(Old, 1991b).
When he turned to the OEDdefinitions, the number of definitions haring at leasttwo words resulted in more than a thousand links; forthe puqx~es of graphic representation lie restrictedthe algorithm, requiring that three or more words beshared for links among nodes to occur.
As toBrugman and Lakoff, he worked with the networks asprovided in their report (1988).Old's determination of the central senses inthe two lexlcal treatments of "over" is in fact muchmore complicated than indicated by this brief sketch.The results, though, were reassuring in that theyshowed significant correlations among the threeworks while, at the same lime, there were significantdistinctions.
Brugman and Lakoffidentify the centralsense of "over" as the combination of the "elementsabove and across" (1988).
Interestingly enough,Old's data extraction method for the OED resulted ina central sense of "from side to side; across to."
Oldnotes that the OED's "across to" "closely matchesBrugman and Lakoffs choice of a central sense of9_V.?,?
and is also the sense of the "across" containingsemicolon group in the ~a.gziallla~" (1991b).
As thatobservation implies, the Thesaurus network includesthe "across" and "above" interpretations; but,contrasfively, the central sense in the Thesaurus i"addittonality," closely followed by "excess-related.
"For some applications, it may not muchmatter which senses of a given word are 'central';rather, it is important to be able to place a word in anappropriate semantic space or subspace and thenperhaps to see what specific ties it has to othersubspaces.
It is important, though, to see howinterpretations of a model differentially partitionsemantic space -- important so as to heighten therealization that disappointments with a large-scaleresource are not necessarily due to shortcomings ofthe resource but rather of the model or of theinterpretations/implementations of the model.
Toomany glib assertions were made earlier about theinadequacy of the ~ as well as about otherlarge-sc ale resources.
The experience of human userscertainly would lead one to suppose that suchcnlturally-validated large-scale resources must "bedoing something right."
Our own computationalresearch experience with the ~!
?,,S.alK~, as well as thecomputational experience of others with dictionariesof various sorts, leads us to believe that we arefinding ways to model and then refine our models ofsuch resources o as to make them of far greaterutility to knowledge-based computer systems.This emphasis we are bespeaking on a'differential diagnosis' as to alternative algorithms iin keeping with the generalization of themethodology so successfully employed in AI visionresearch by the late David Marc: clearly establishingthe basic transfer function and then comparingalgorithms for accomplishing it, before anyprogramming is undertaken.
That methodology alsocomports well with the widely employed approachutilized and advocated by Wayne Wymore (1977) forinterdisciplinary efforts directed at solving largesystems-analytic problems.R~ereneesBrady, John.
1988.
"ICSS 0nterlingualCommunication Support System) and aWtttgensteinlan Language Game," Proceedings,European Studies Conference, University ofNebraska/Omaha, pp20.27.Brady, John.
1991.
"Towards AutomaticCategorization of Concordances Using \]gg.g?~International \]Jafz~?l:~," Proceedin~,s.
Third AnnualMidwest Artificial Intelligence and CognitiveScience Society Conference, ed.
Gamble and Ball,Washington University, St. Louis, pp.
93-97.Acres DE COLING-92~ NANTEs, 23-28 ^ot~r 1992 1 2 2 6 Paoc.
OF COLING-92, N.~r,rrEs, AUG. 23-28.
1992Brugman, Claudia, and George Lakoff.
1988.
"Cognitive Topology and Lexical Networks," inSmall, Cottrell, and Tanenbous, eds., LeMc~E, esigallli.~, Palo Alto: MorganKaulinann, pp.
477-508.Bryan, Robert.
1973.
"Abstract Thesauri and GraphTheory Applications in Thesaurus Research," in S.Sedelow, et al, ~ ~ ~ ,/9_22:19.~, pp.
45-89.
Lawrence: University ofKansas Departments of Computer Science and ofLinguistics.Bryan, Robert.
1974.
"Modelling in ThesaurusResearch," in S. Sedelow, et al,L,Bllgllig~ ~ 19_Z3.
:.12.7~, pp.
44-59.Lawrence: University of Kansas Departments ofComputer Science and of Linguistics.Jacuzzi, Victor A.
1991.
"Modeling SemanticAssociation Using the Hierarchical Structure ofRoget's International Thesaurus," Oral Presentation,Dictionary Society of North America BiennialMeeting, University of Missouri, Columbia,Missouri, August, 1991.Man', David.
1982.
Y_iflg~, W. H. Freeman.Old, John, 1991a.
"Analysis of Polysemy andHomography of the Word "lead" in Roget'sInternational Thesaurus," Proceedinus.
ThirdMidwest Artificial Intelligence and CognitiveScience Society Conference, d. Gamble and Ball,Washington University, pp.
98-102.Old, John.
1991b.
"Image Schemas and Lexicons: AComparison between Two Lexical Networks," OralPresentation, Dictionary Society of North AmericaBiennial Meeting, University of Missouri, Columbia,Missouri, August, 1991.Patrick, Archibald.
1985.
An F31p_lg_talJ~ of an~ Instantiation.
M.S.
Thesis,Computer Science Department, University ofKansas/Lawrence.\]L0gg~ International ~ag, sali~, 3rd ed, 1962, NewYork: Thomas Y. Crowell.Sexlelow, Sally Yeates.
1985.
"ComputationallJterary Thematic Analysis: The Possibility of aGeneral Solution," Proceedings, 48th AnnualMeeting of the American Society for InformationScience, Vol.
22, pp.
359-362.Sedelow, Sally Yeates and Walter A. Sedelow, Jr.1986.
"Thesaural Knowledge Representation,"Proceedines.
Advances in Lexicology, UW Centrefor the New Oxford English Dictionary: Waterloo,Canada, pp.
31-43.Sedelow, Sally Yeates and Walter A, Sedelow, Jr. (InPress) "A Topologic Model of the English SemanticCode and Its Role in Automatic Disambiguation forDiscourse Analysis," in Hockey and Ire, eds.,Proceedings, 10th International Conference onComputers and the Humanities, Oxford UniversityPress, Oxford, England.Sedelow, Walter A., Jr. and Sally Yeates Sedelow.1987.
"Semantic Space," ~ and~Iall~l~.9.1!, 2, pp.
231-242.Sedelow, Walter A., Jr. 1988.
"Knowledge Retrievaltlom Domain-Transcendent Expert Systems: I. SomeConcepts from Cognitive Robotics," proceedings,51st Annual Meeting of the American Society forInformation Science, 1988, Vol.
25, pp.
205-208.Talburt, John R. and Donna M. Mooney.
1989.
"TheDecomposition of Roget's International Thesaurusinto Type-10 Semantically Strong Components,"Proceedings.
1989 ACM South Regional Conference,Tulsa, Oklahoma, pp/.
78-83.Warfel, Sam.
1972.
"The Value of a Thesaurus forPrefix Identification," in S. Sedelow, et al,Amamat~ ~ Anakvm, 127a:_19_72, pp.31-49.
University of Kansas Departments ofComputer Science and of Linguistics.Wymore, A. Wayne.
1977.
Malhg, lllatE~ ~ ofEngineering" ~ ;lYAgln.e,l~.
Melbourne,Fla.
: Krieger.ACRES DE COLING-92.
NANTES, 23-28 nOt~'r 1992 I 2 2 7 PRoc.
oF COLING-92, NANTES, AUO.
23-28, 1992
