A Kn0wledge-based  Mach ine-a ided  System for Ch inese  Text  Abst rac t ion  1Benjamin K TsouHing-cheung HoTom Bong-yeung LaiCaesar Suen LunHing-lung LinCity Polytechnic of Hong KongHong KongIntroductionThe production of abstracts from input sourcetexts, using computers, is a subject in naturallanguage processing that has attracted muchattention and investigative study.
It not onlyposes interesting theoretical challenges but alsopromises useful practical applications.
At the CityPolytechnic of Hong Kong, a large-scale researchproject on automated Chinese text abstraction hasentered its third year.
The project aims toinvestigate the issues related to text abstractionthrough the building of a prototype system.Recognising the impracticality, at this stage, ofattempting to construct a fully automatic systemfor abstracting random free texts, we haveadopted a pragmatic approach by defining threedesign parameters at the outset : (1) The inputtexts consist of Chinese newspaper editorials.
(2)The universe of discourse is on the safety of thenuclear power plant at Daya Bay (which issituated some 50 Km to the east of Hong Kong).
(3) The target system will be fully automatic onlyat the final text generation stage, but will enlistinformant input in the text understanding stage.The result of our investigations and efforts is aprototype known as Machine-Aided Chinese TextAbstraction System (MACTAS) \[6\], To begin theprocess of text abstraction in MACTAS, anunsophisticated human informant first reads andunderstands a given Chinese editorial.
Based onhis understanding of the editorial, he win gothrough an open-ended question-answeringsession with the system.
At the conclusion ofthe human-machine dialog, which draws on aprevious project \[7\], MACTAS will generatean abstract of the editorial in Chinese.System ArchitectureThe system architecture of MACTAS isillustrated in the diagram below :Human InformantI EngineRepresentationof AbstractO2:: torOutput TextIResearch reported here has been supported by Earmarked Research Grant No.
904007from the University & Polytechnic Grants Committee of Hong Kong.ACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Aour 1992 l 0 3 9 PROC.
OP COLING-92, NANTEs, AUG. 23-28, 1992The Parser performs linguistic analysis on theresponse provided by the informant, and deliversrelevant syntactic and semantic nformation to theDiscourse Manager.
Guided by the InferenceEngine, the Discourse Manager supervises theinteraction with the informant, producing aninternal representation of the abstract.
TheInference Engine draws on the knowledgecontained in the domain-specific knowledge baseto provide the basis for extracting the flow ofargumentation f the editorial during the dialogsession with the informant.
Finally, the TextGenerator transforms the internal representationof the abstract into output ext.The remaining sections of this paper will discussthe salient features of each of these systemcomponents.Knowledge Base Management and InferencingKnowledge about the universe of discourse isderived from a detailed analysis of newspapereditorials on the subject, and codified into theKnowledge Base, which consists of a set of if-thenrules.
Rules can be used for deductive reasoning,and thus are best suited for capturing the flow ofargumentation in editorials.
In MACTAS, theserules are used to trigger queries to be posed tothe informant, for the purpose of identifyingconclusions in the editorial and the chains ofreasoning leading to such conclusions.The basic building-block of a rule is the predicate,which is an assertion that something is true.Since the Knowledge Base plays a crucial role inthe process of agrumeatation elicitation, afundamental requirement is that the queriesposed to the informant will be in simple naturallanguage.
To this end, nine predicate templateshave been designed.
The design of such templatesis based on linguistic knowledge of Chinese.
Eachpredicate reflects a simple Chinese sentence,based on the subject-predicate sentence structure.On the macro level, a focus structure is used toprovide a framework for partitioning the rules inthe Knowledge Base into logically related groups.The purpose of partitioning is twofold.
Firstly, itenables the Discourse Manager (discussed below)to identify relevant conclusions in the editorial inan efficient manner.
Secondly, it aids the textgeneration process during the production ofthe final abstract.The Inference Engine performs inferencing onthe Knowledge Base to support he DiscourseManager in identifying possible conclusion(s)in an editorial, and in assisting the informantto relate the flow of argumentation leading toeach conclusion.
Key features of theInference Engine, designed to simulate thedialog between two human beings, include :(1) It does not query the informant about factseither deducible from the Knowledge Base orfrom the current dialog.
(2) Within thecontext of a given inferencing goal, consecutivequeries bear a logical relationship to oneanother, thus defining the flow ofargumentation leading to a particularconclusion.
(3) It does not mechanisticallypose queries to follow every step that leads toa conclusion.
Rather, it is possible to jumpahead more than one step, to minimize thenumber of queries asked of the informantbefore a conclusion is reached.Discourse ManagementThe Discourse Manager \[1\] controls theinteractive session with the informant, inaccordance with a discourse model forChinese editorials.
The design of thisdiscourse model is based on the concept ofschemata proposed by McKeown \[5\].
Thereare four schemata for an editorial : (I)Background schema, recording items that arecommon to editorials in general, such as nameof the newspaper.
(2) Identification schema,indicating the conclusions put forward in theeditorial.
(3) Argumentation schema,expounding the logical flow of argumentsleading to each conclusion.
(4)Recommendation schema, containingsuggestions by the editorial writer for possibleactions.
The discourse model provides thebase framework for organising the internalrepresentation of the abstract which issubsequently used by the Text Generator forproducing the output ext.The Discourse Manager performs afour-phasedialog session with the informant, each phasebeing designed to capture relevant informationAcrES DE COLING-92.
NANTES.
23-28 AOt~' 1992 l 0 4 0 PROC.
OI: COLING-92, NAlWrES, AUG. 23-28.
1992for filling a corresponding schema in the discoursemodel.
In particular, it calls upon the services ofthe Inference Engine for filling the argumentationschema, which constitutes the main body of theabstract.~rs~As MACq~AS does not aim at full-textunderstanding for the production of abstracts, themain function of the Parser is to support theDiscourse Manager in the task of responseevaluation.
A data-driven deterministic parser forChinese sentences has been constructed.
"Ihesyntactic rules used are adapted from the syntacticframework for Chinese sentences proposed byZhu \[8\].
Because Chinese sentences do notalways require both subject and predicate in thesurface form, a bottom-up, rather than atop-down, parsing algorithm has beenimplemented.
Moreover, to avoid unnecessarybacktracking and the build-up of non-occurringconstituents, the look-ahead principle of Marcus\[4\] has been adopted to check contextualinformation.
Thus, tests are performed before asuitable path is selected.
For the currentprototype, conjoined sentences can be parsed, butnot complex sentences with multiple verbs.Text GenerationThe Text Generator performs generation ofChinese abstracts at three conceptual levels : (l)Discourse model level.
This determines thestructure and content of an editorial, based on thediscourse model mentioned above.
Its role is tomonitor the progress of succeeding utterances sothat the output text is well organised.
(2)Rhetorical structure level.
This generates aparagraph of logically related multiple-sentencetext using suitable Chinese conjunctions so that acoherent and rhetorically sound output ext can beproduced.
Its design is based on the rhetoricalstructure theory proposed by Mann andThompson \[3\], adapted here for the Chineselanguage \[2\].
(3) Single clause level.
This isresponsible for generating a grammatically correctclause for a given predicate, using the predicatetemplates discussed earlier.ConclusionCommunication using language is a uniqueability which distinguishes humans from theuther members of the animal kingdom.
Theability to simplify information, while retainingessential logical meaning and structure,represents a yet higher order of faculty.
Thesuccessful attempt through MAC-WAS tosimulate some aspects of this process wouldnot have been possible without recognising thetruly interdisciplinary nature of computationallinguistics.
MACTAS, as it now stands, couldoffer significant functional value within thedevoloping language industry.
Thecomparatively low cost associated withunsophisticated 'informants' in using systemssuch as MACTAS for the production ofabstracts could be more cost-effective than theemployment of subject specialists for large-scale and regular monitoring of textualinformation i  specific domains.
The abstractsthus produced provide the initial screening ofinformation contained in a growing corpuswhich may be subsequently selected andexamined at a higher level.
Further efforts inMAC~FAS will be aimed at improving: (1) Therange of natural anguage it can process andgenerate, such as the inclusion of complexsentences with multiply embedded verbs, (2)The refinement of the Discourse Manager onthe basis of an enlarged corpus base, and (3)The deductive ability of the system, includingconsistency checking to cope with infelicitiesnatural to humans.A Note on ImplementationMACTAS was implemented in a personalcomputer environment under DOS, usingTurbo PROLOG and the Eten ChineseSystem.
To circumvent the limitationsimposed by a single PC, the full system runson two PC's interconnected by an RS-232Cinterface.
A single-PC demonstration versionis also available.\]~eferg?l ces\[1\] Ho, H.C., Tsou,T.B.Y.
and Lun, C.S.B.K., Lin, H.L., Lai,"A Knowledge-DrivenAcrEs DE COLING-92.
NANTES.
23-28 ho~rr 1992 1 0 4 l Pltoc.
oF COLING-92, NANTES, AUO.
23-28, 1992Discourse Manager For Chinese Editorials.
"Paper to be presented at the International AMSEConference on Modelling and Simulation (NewOrleans, Oct 1991).\[2\] Lin, H.L., Tsou, B.K., Ho, H.C., Lai, T.B.Y.,Lun, C.S., Choi, C.Y.
and Kit, C.Y.
"AutomaticChinese Text Generation Based On InferenceTrees."
In Proceedings of the ROCLING 1991Computationallinguistics Conference IV (Taiwan,Aug 1991), pp.
215-236.\[3\] Mann, W.C. and Thompson, S.A. "RhetoricalStructure Theory : Description and Constructionof Text Structures."
In Natural LanguageGeneration -- New Results in ArtificialIntelligence, Psychology and Linguistics, G.Kempen (Ed.).
Martinus Nijhoff Publishers(1987), pp.
85-95.\[4\] Marcus, M.P.
A Theory of SyntacticRecognition for Natural Language.
MIT Press(1980).\[5\] McKeown, K. "Discourse Strategies forGenerating Natural-Language T xt."
In Readingsin Natural Language Processing, B.J.
Grosz et al(Eds.).
Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, California(1986), pp.
479-500.\[6\] Tsou, B.K., Ho, H.C., Lin, H.L., Liu, G.K.F.,Lun, C.S.
and Heung, A.Y.L.
"AutomatedChinese Text Abstraction : A Human-MachineCo-operative Approach."
In Proceedings of theInternational Conference on Computer Processingof Chinese and Oriental Languages (Changsha,Apr 1990), pp.
57-62.\[7\] Tsou, B.K., Lun, C.S., and Heung, A.Y.L.
"AnOpen-ended Chinese Question-Answering System(ECQUAS)."
In Proceedings of the 13thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, Helsinki (ed.
H. Karlgren) (1990)Vol.
1.\[8\] Zhu, Dexi.
Yufa Jianyi (Lectures on ChineseGrammar).
Commercial Press, Beijing (1982).Acres DE COLING.92, NANTES, 23-28 AOfn" 1992 1 0 4 2 PROC.
OF COL1NG-92.
NANTES.
AUG. 23-28.
1992
