A REUSABLE LEX ICAL  DATABASE TOOL FOR MACl t lNE  TRANSLAT IONBRI(HTTE BL,~SER ULRIKF, SCHWALLIBM Germany IBM GermanyInstitute for Knowledgc Institute for KnowledgeBased Systems Based SystemsP.O.
Box 10 30 68 P.O.
Box 10 30 68W-6900 lleidelberg W-6900 lteidelbergEmail: alscbwee schwallat dhdibm 1 .bitnet at dhdibm l.bitnetO.
ABSTRACTThis paper describes the lexical database tool LOLA(Linguistic-Oriented Lexical database Approach)which has been developed fur the construction andmaintenance of lexicons for the maclfine translationsystem I,MT.
First, the requirements such a toolshould meet are discussed, then I,MT and the lexi-cal information it requires, and some issues con-cerning vocabulary acquisition are presented.Afterwards the architecture aml the components ofthe I,OLA system are described and it is shown howwe tried to meet the requirements worked out em'-hier.
Although I,OI,A originally has been designedand implemented for the German-English I,MTprototype, it aimed from the beginning at a repre-sentation of lexical data that can be reused for utherLMT or MT prototypes or even other NLP appli-cations.
A special point of discussion will thereforebe the adaptability of the tool and its cumponentsas well as the reusability of the lexical data stored inthe database for the lexicon development for I,MTor for other applications.i.
IntroductionThe availability of large-scale lexical information haswidely been recognized as a bottleneck in the con-struction of Natural Language Processing (NLI')systems.
The lexical database I,OLA has been de-veloped in connection with the Logic-programming-based Machine Translation (LMT)system and shall be presented here.
This work ispart of the objectives of the project Transl,exislaunched in 1991 at the Institute of KnowledgeBased Systems of the IBM Germany ScientificCenter.
Transl,exis aims at the theoretically andempirically well motivated lexical description andthe management of the lexical information of LMTin a database.
It is conceived as a first step towardsa reusable lexical knowledge base.1.1.
Requirements for convenientconstruction and maintenance of LexiconsBased on our experience and existing literature, atool for the construction and maintenance of largeNLP lexicons with a complex entry structure shouldmeet the following requirements:tJ Adequate expressive power of the represen-tation formalism: the expressive power mustbe sufficient to cover the facts of lexical de-scription.ANGELIKA STORRERUniversity of TiibingenSeminar ffirnatfirlichsprachl.
SystemeWilhelmstr.
113W-7400 'Fiibingenstorrer at arbuckle.sns.ncuphilologie.uni-tuebingen.det~ Methodology for the description of lexical in-formation: criteria and guidelines relevant forencoding should be developed and docu-mented.n Orientation towards lexicographic procedure:the design of the tool should take the logicalcourse of the lexicographie work procedure intoconsideration and support it during all its stepsand phases.
The lexicographer should be ena-bled to concentrate on the lexicographic de-scription of lexical units while the tool itselfautomatically takes care of the remaining tasksin lexicon development.n Consistency mid integrity checking of the lexi-cal data: when entries are added or updated,the system should reject invalid values for par-ticular features and check if the input leads toinconsistency of the database.t~ Data independence: An extreme dependencybetween the structuring of lexical data stored inthe database and the structure of the lexicalentries in a given application system should beavoided.
In tiffs way the lexical data will remainresistant to modifications in theNLP/MT-systems that make use of these data.t~ Reusability/Rcversability of the data (cf.Calzolari 1989, tlcid 1991): lexical data shouldbe represented in such a way that it can -- apartfrom its transfer specific components - be re-used for other MT-prototypes with the samesource or target languagc, or with the reverselanguage pair (e.g.
German-English andEnglish-German).
Ideally, the lexical datashould be independent to such a degree thatthey are also reusable for otherNLP-applications.D Multi-user access: it should be possible for se-veral users to work on the lexicon simultane-ously.D llelp facilities: the criteria and guidelines forlexical description should be easily accessible.The availability of monolingnal and bilingualdictionaries are to support he lexicographer'slinguistic ompetence.1.2 LMTLMT, developed by Michael MeCord, is in basicdesign a source-based transfer system in which thesource analysis is done with Slot Grammar (cf.McCord 1989, 1990, forthcoming).
Two maincharacteristics of LMT should be emphas~ed:1. the lexicalism, arising from Slot Grammarsource analysis;ACRES DE COLINO-92.
NANTES, 23-28 AOt'rr 1992 5 1 0 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-98, 19922. a large language-general X4o-Y-translationshell.Both features facilitate the development of proto-types for ncw hmguage pairs I , Versions of I,MT(in wu'ious stages) exist currently for nine languagepairs.I,MT currently requires the lollowing types of in-formation to bc specified k)r lexical units (I,lJ):pat1 of speech;u word SellSCS iu morphological properties;rl agreelnent features;o the valency, i.e.
the li'anlc ofoptiomd/ohligatory complement slots;o the specification of the fillers (Nl)s, suhordinateclauses) for each slot;t~ semantic compatibility constraints andcollocations;n characterization f mulliword lexmncs;u subject area;translation relations;tq lexieal transtbmmtions.In McCord (forthcoming), an external lexical tormat(l';lA:) is prescntcd wtfich allows the representationof the above information.
1Jntil now, however, thelexical data has been kept in sequential files attdupdating tins been done with a text editor.
Thtlsmost of tile above-mentiuncd requirenlents eouklnot be met.1.3 Vocabulary AcquisitionThe hand-coding of dictionaries i  a laborious andtimc-eonsuming task.
Thercforc a nmnbcr of at-tempts have been made to exploit corpora and/ormachine readable dictionaries (MRDs) for thebuild-up of NI A)-lexicons (el.
3.5) 2 .
In many cases,however, the lexical information in MRD's is nci-thor complete nor sufficiently explicit for NLP/MTpurposes anti has to he rcvised hy lexicographers.Ideally, the demands on a lexicograptter shoukl onlybc of linguistic nature.
For this reason a sophisti-cated tool is necdcd to guklc anti suppnrt theNlJ'/MT-lexicographer in revising entries auto-maticaHy converted from machine readable sourcesas well as in buikling up new vocabulary.2.
LOLA - arch i tec ture  and componentsThe lexical data base tool I,OLA aims at meetingthe above mentkmed requirements.
Its design anddevelopment are based on work achieved in thel,EX-project and the COIJ';X-projcct 3 .
LOLAmakes use of automatic onsistency and hltegritychecks as well as of the support of multi-user accessprovided as standard facilities by the relationalI)BMS SQL/I)S. Updates are made with the helpof a user interface tltat supports tim lexicographerduring the encoding process.
The representation fthe lexical data has been worked out to be as inde-pendent as possible of the format of a specific ap-plicatiun lexicon, thus increasing the degree ofreusability of the lexical data.
In additiun, a cata-logue of criteria nd guiddhms for lexical descriptionis being elaborated and will be integrated into timtool.IXlLA L~xtca l  I )ar .aim~ '1"~lk .
.
.
.
.
3/ /  \]~x ~Figure I. IX)I,A - architectureThe main components of the architecture of the1,OI,A system arc tile following (of.
l:igure 1):1.
LO1,A-I)B: the database itself.2.
COI,OI,A (COder's interface to LO1,A):Interface tilt hand-codiug and modificatkm oftim lexical data, stored in I,OLA-I)B.3.
I)B TO LMT: program tll~d generates I,MTlexicon matfies from the lcxieal data stored in1 I ) I ,A - I )B .4.
I,MT TO 1)11: program that loads already ex-isting 1 ,MT lexicons into I,OI,A-I)B.5, I,I)11 TO DB: program that converts datafrom ~M l(l)'s into I ,O 1 ,A-1)B.In the tbllowing we give a brief description of thesecomponents.2.1.
The DatabaseThe database was desi~md iu two steps: develop-merit of the conceptua l  scheme and dcvclopment oftim database scheme.In the conceptual design phase, the lexical objects,ttmir properties, and their interrelations were re-presented in an entity-relatinnship diagram (of.I ,MT  is file technical basis of an international project at IBM wifll cooperation between IBM Researdl, tile IBMScience Centers in lleidelberg, Madrid, Paris, llaifa, and Cairo, and IBM European l.anguage Services inCopenhagen (cf.
Rimon et al 1991).2 Cf.
Byrd et al 1987; for an overview of related activities within file l,MT-project, cL Rimon et al 1991, pp.
14-15.Cf.
Barnett et al 1986; Blumenthal et al 1988; Storrer 1990.Ac~s DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 ao(Tr 1992 5 1 l PROe.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992Chen 1976).
Although the ER-model does not havethe expressive power to cover all aspects of lcxicaldescription, especially complex constraints, it hasbeen chosen here as a compromise between a cmn-plete lexical representation and the realization in atraditional database system.The resulting ER-diagram for the German-Englishlexicon is shown in Figure 2 a .The conceptual scheme is still independent of thechoice of a specific DBMS and of other implemen-tation aspects.
The basic principles of the concep-tual design of our database will be sketched out inthe following.Orientation towards linguistic structure, not towardsthe structure of the application lexicon.The diagram reflects, in the first place, the structureof the linguistic objects, their properties and andtheir interrelations, and it is influenced to a smallerdegree by the structure of the application lexicon.As a consequence, the data is quite resistant ostructural changes hi the format of the applicationlexicon.
The abstraction from the structures of theapplication lexicon has a positive side effect withregard to the exploitation of machine readable lexi-cai resources: on one hand, we can handle cases, inwhich not all information required by LMT is pro-vided in the entries of MRD's.
The informationacquired can be stored as entries to be completedand revised later.
On the other hand, we are free tostore types of lexical information that are of rele-vance for NLP  applications and can be acquiredfrom MRD's  or other NLP lexicons but are notprocessed in a current LMT-version.
We can savethem in the database as coding aids for thelexicographers, for future prototype versions, orother NLP  applications.Analogous structure for source and target languagewherever possible.The lower part of the ER-diagram represents theGerman source, tile upper part tile English targetlanguage.
For both languages, an entity of the typeentry can have one or more homonyms, each ofwhich can have one or more senses.
The sensesthemselves can open one or more sense-specific slots(one-to-many relations).
A sense-specific slot canbe filled by several types of fillers and the same typeof filler can flU several sense-specific slots (many-to-many relation).
The basic types of entities andrelations, which are the same for all languages, aredescribed by their characteristic features representedas attributes.
The number of attributes as well astheir values may differ according to language-specific peculiarities s .Many-to-many relations between the lexical objectsof both languages.We represent the relation of lexical equivalence be-tween source and target senses, as a many-to-manyrelation (one source sense can have multiple targetequivalents and vice versa).
This breaks with thetraditional hierarchical entry structure of bilingualdictionaries (Calzolari et at.
1990), but it avoids re-dundant description and storage of one target sensethat is lexically equivalent to different source senses.Another relation holds for the sense-specific slotsof two senses that are regarded as lexicMly equiv-alent.
We decided to establish this relation betweenslots and not between slot frames.
This way we caaaelegantly describe lexically equivalent senses withnon-corresponding slotframes ~ .
In this way the re-lations between the two languages may be used toa great extent bidirectionally for the XY- as well asfor tbe YX-language pair.The conceptual scheme captured in the ER-diagramwas then mapped into a database scheme and im-plemented in tile relational DBMS SQL/DS.
Wechose a relational DBMS, because -- for the main-tenance of the large LMT-GE lexicon (about 50,000entries) -- we were in need of a stable DBMS whichsupports multi-user access, has facilities for auto-matic checking of consistency and integrity of thelexical data mad allows for the specification of mul-tiple user-specific views on the data.
To avoid re-dundancy and update anomalies we tried tonormalize our relations as far it was useful with re-spect to our approach.
In total, 32 tables are imple-mented: 25 tables describe lexical objects andrelations by means of attributes with associated val-ues, 7 tables serve to store "knowledge about thelexical knowledge", e.g.
the admitted values for at-tributes sucia as semantic type, filler-type, slot-typefor both languages.2.2.
COLOLA:  the user interface to LOLACOLOLA is the user interface to LOLA-DB thatlooks up the lexical data of a given search word anddisplays it on sequentially connected menus.
Thedesign of the menus as well as their sequential orderwas guided by the manner in which lexicographersdescribe lexical entries.
The following operationscan be performed:4 The boxes represent types of entities, the diamonds represent types of relations between entities, the ellipses representattributes which characterize types of entities or relations.
The labels of the connection lines indicate whether therelation in question is a one-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-one or many-to-many relation.The ER-diagram is a simplified version of the actual conceptual model.
For the purpose of this paper, several entitytypes, attributes, and relations have been leR out.s E.g.
: in German a preposition like "auf' can govern either an accusative NP ("warren auf') or a dative NP ("lastenauf') depending on the verb that lakes the prepositional phrase with the respective preposition as a complement.Therefore "case" is a feature, relevant for the description of German slot fillers filling a prepositional complementslot,s E.g.
cases like "like" and "gefallen" where the subject of the English verb corresponds to the dative object of theGerman verb; or cases like "geigen" and "play the violin" where the English direct object filler "the violin" is incor-porated in the semantics of the German verb "geigen".ACTES DE CO\[JNG-92, NAbrl~, 23-28 AOt~'r 1992 5 1 2 PROC.
or COLING-92, NANTES, AUO.
23-28, 1992\]" - " 7 " ~ /~"  1" \ " \  n,F igure  2.
Ent i ty  Re la t ionsh ip  D iagram for \ [ ;e rman-Eng l i , - .hn addition of new source or target entriesn deletion of existing entriesn change of existing or addition of new featuresto existing entries\[\] deletion of features from existing entriesu assigmnent of new or deletitm of existingtransit(inn equivalents for a given source senseN update, insertinn or deletion of transfer infnr-mation for each pair of translation equivalents.For each part of speech, a specific sequence ofmenus is defined.
There are ntcnus for homonymsand senses of source and target entries; the qinkiug"of the source senses and target senses regarded tobe lexically equivalent is clone via transfer menus.This allows lexicographers to spcci~dize on specificparts of speech or on specific fi~atures which can belocally updated.COI ,OLA controls multi-user access to theLOI,A-I)B so tltat several lexicographers (:an up-date the lcxical database simultaneously.
The log-ical unit of work is the source or target homonym:when a lcxicngraphcr rcqucsts to update ahomonynt,  this homonym, together with its senses,is locked tar other users.If a new entry contains blanks, a multiword menuis called where the multiword is split up into itscomponents.
For each component, the followinglexical information is gathered: the part of speech,whether the word may inflect within the multiword,and whether a phrase can be inserted between onemultiword component mKl tire previous one with-out doing away with idiomaticity.If new hotnony lus  o r  8e l l ses  ;:ire inser ted  ou  themultiword menu as well as on other menus, defaultwducs for tcaturcs arc displayed.
They can eitherbe accepted or rejected and overwrittcn by thelcxiengraphcr 7 .
The assumptions on dethult valuesfor attributes nf lcxical intbrmation may differ ac-cording to diffcrcnt grammars and systems.
Wetherefore decided to store the complete lexJcal in-fbrmatinn and use dcfault wdues as proposals in tireuser interface.
With this approach we aUow for twoadvantages: on one hand, the data in thc databasecan be used lot difllsreut appficatinrts having distincttheory specific assumptions on defaults.
On theother hand, the user of CO1,OI,A can bcuetit li'omthe economic advantages ()f default assumptions.C()I~OLA does extensive crmsistency chccking ofthe values entered by tire lexicographers.
Illegal val-ues arc rejected and warning messages are displayedin situations where errors nfight easily occur.
Al-though much of tim consistency cttecking is sup..pnrted by the database management system, someextensions were necessary.Further support for the lexicographers is providedby an interface tn the WordSmith nn-linc dictit)narysystem (cf.
Byrd/Neff 1987).
Several machine read-able dictionaries are available .g.
Collins German-tinglish, F, nglish-German, Longman's I)ictionai T ofContemporary l':uglish, and Webster 7th Collegiatedictionary.
The lexicographer can look up entries inthese dictionaries during the encoding process.Furthermore, help menus are provided in which ttrevMid values tbr specific features can be looked tip.7 Default values are provided, for instance, for slot fillers.
German direct objcct slots get an accusative noun phraseas lhe default filler.
The lexicographers may accept his, add other fillers or write over it with ann(fief iller.AC1T~ BE COLING-92, NAN'fES, 23-28 AOUf 1992 5 1 3 I)ROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUO.
23-28, 19922.3.
DB 7"0 LMTA conversion program I)B TO LMT has been dc-veloped which extracts lexical in-formation stored inthe relations of I ,OI,A-DB and converts it intol ,MT-lbrmat.
1)11 f l 'O _I,MT consists of two com-ponents:u a datalmsc extractor andO a convers ion  programThe database xtractor selects the source entries andthe corresponding target entries and stores them indatabase format.
This format can be regarded as anintermediate representation betwccn databasescheme and I,MT-format.
It consists nf a set ofProh)g predicates which correspond to the relationsof thc database scheme.
Thcrc are, for instance,entry, homonym, sense, and slot predicates whichcorrespond to the entry, homonym, sense, and slotrelations in the database.
The conversion programfinally converts the database format into theLMT-format.
It has to be adapted according to thechanges or extcnsions of" the l,MT-ff~rmat.2.4.
LMT TO DBBefore and during LOLA design and development,I,MT lexicons in EI, F were already crcated andupdated in fdes.
Since these lexicons still need up-dating and since this is much better supported by1,OLA, a conversion program LMT TO DB wasneeded which converts EI, I r entries c~f lextcon filesinto the database format and loads them intoI,OI,A-DB.
I MT_TO_I)I~ consists of three corn-ponents:t~ the lexiemt cmnpiler of LMT,tJ a conversion component, and\[\] a database loader.The lexicon compiler is the component of the I,M'I"system which converts the EI,F into tire internalI ,MT format s .
In the internal format all abbrevi-ation conventions and default assumptions are al-ready interpreted and expanded accordingly so thatthe complete lexical itfformation is represented ex-plicitly.
The convers ion  component  then convertsthe internal l ,MT-format to database forrnat.
Thedatabase loader generates the SQL-statements andupdates the database.
It has to check first whetherthe hmnonym or sense to be inserted is identicalwith ,an homonym or sense stored in the database.If all the features of two homonyms or senses canbe unified, they are regarded to be identical and thealready existing entry is merged with the convertedentry.
In all other cases the homonym or sense isinserted into the database and merging has to bedone by the lexicographers with COI,O1,A.2.5.
LDB TO DBTo supplement the lexical coverage of the LMTsystem, a dictionary access module has been devel-opcd which allows real-time access (cf.Neff/McCord 1990) to Collins bilingual dictionariesawfilable as lexical data bases (l,l)Bs) 9 .
The mod-ule includes a language pair independent shell com-ponent COl ,1 ,XY and laoguage-speeificcomponents ,'rod converts the lexical data of theLl) l l  into the l ,Ml'-format, l,Dll TO l)ll is basedon these programs.
It consists of\[\] a pattern matching component,tJ a restroettrring enmlmnent ,a corrvel'sion eonlllofierrt , andt~ the database loader of 1,MT TO I)B.With the pattern matclfing cmnlmnent, those fea-tures (sub-trees) that are to be converted are selectedfrom the dictionary entries.
In printed dictionaries,features colnnlon tO more th,'m one sub-tree are of.ten factorcd out in order to save space.
With there,structuring component, those features can bemoved 1o the sub-trees they logically belong to.The conversion ennlponent converts the restructureddictionary entry to database format.
The databaseloader of LMT TO I)B merges the entry with apossibly already exit ing one in I ,OI,A-DB antigenerates the SQl,-staternents o update the data-base.
The converted entries can be revised by thelexicographers with COI,OI,A.3.
Reusab i l i ty  o f  the  LOLA sys tem3.1 Reusability of  the tool componentsThe first I,OI,A prototype was tleveloped to sup-port lexicon development for the language pairGerman-English.
In the meantime, work has beenstarted to make the tool usable for lexicon develop-rnent of the Fnglish-I)anish and English-SpanishI ,MT systerns.
As a positive result of the designprinciples described in section 3.1., the databasescheme had to be modified only slightly with regardto prototype-specific differences I?
.
The values for"1,'mguage-specific attributes uch as types of slotsmad fillers will be defined for" the "new" languagesSpanish and Danish and will be stored in the data-base.
Thcy can then bc used fi~r consistency check-ing (only defined valucs can be updated in thedatabase).
In COI,OI ,A we had to take into ac-count the homonym level on thc target side, wheres In tile morpho-lexical processing and compiling phase, I~,I.F entries are converted into an internal format (cf.
McCord(forthcoming): sect.
2) which represents file initial source and transfer analysis of an individual input word string.9 An LI)II provides a tree representation f tile hierarchical structure of tile dictionary entries.
The nodes of tile treeare labeled with attributes having specific values for each individual entry.
The t,DB can be queried wilt the spe-cialized query language LQL (cf.
Neff/Byrd/Rizk 1988).~o English-Daoish and English-Spanish use lexicon driven morphology for the target languages Spanish (cf.
Rimon etat.
1991) and Danish, whereas German-Engllsh uses a rule-based target morphology for English (el', McCord/Wolff1988).ACRES DE COL\[NG-92, NANTES, 23-28 AUra" 1992 5 1 4 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NA.
'CrES, Auo.
23-28, 1992the features of Spanish ,anti l)anish morphologyhave to be specitied.
The programs that convert hedatabase ntries into the timnat of the applicationlexicons and vice versa ( \ ] ) l l f l 'O I,MT mulI,MT_TO DIt) need generalization \]il nrdei toachieve an abstraction from prototype-specific lea-lures of \] ,MT.3.2 Reusabil ity o f  the lexical dataIn order to meet the requirement of data independ-ence, the representation f lexical entries in the da-tabase is highly independent of that in theapplication lexicon.
In the database, the descriptionof linguistic entities and their interrelatkms is givenin a set of tables where specitic values air stored lorthe characteristic attributes of each individual entity.On these tables, different views can be defined fordifferent types of users, l)iffercnt programs (likeI)B TO I,MT) can extract exactly the attributevalues needed fur their respective appficatiou andconvert them into each given format.
This way,from one and the same data base several lexiconscan be generated, in which the same "lhaguisticworld' is structured ifferently or represented in acompletely ditti~rent way.
The possibilities of reus-ability ,are naturally defined and limited by thcnumber of the registered types of lexical informationin the origin',d data base.
As far as the LOI,A da-tabase is concerned, the very detailed escription ofslot frames as well as the information about nmlti-words and the properties of their emnponents maybe reused for other NLP applicatkms with one ofthe languages inwflved.
The reusability of thetranster intormation (specitied in the transfer re-lations between the languages of a given languagepair) for other MT systems depends highly on therespective MT approach.
As to the question ofrcusabilty of the data in the LMT system "family",three different cascs have to be distinguished:1. lexical-data description given for a source lan-guage X is reused for another language pairhaving X as source language,2.
lexical-data description given for a source lan-guage X is reused for another language pairhaving X as target language,3.
lexical-data description given for a target lan-guage Y is reused for another language pairhaving Y as source language.In the tirst two cases, reusability of tim lexical dataof language X is very high.
In tim ttfird case, thedescription of Y as source 1;mguage may have to bemore detailed in order to achieve ml adequate syn-tactic analysis n .
New attributes or even new typesof entities or relationships may be needed mad thedatabase scheme will have to be etd~aneed accord-ingly.4.
Out lookOur long-term goal is a multilingnal database, inwlfich the lexical knowledge tbr each language in-volved in the 1,MT project is represented only once.Application lexicons lor I,MT prototypes with dif-ferent language pairs arc generated by extracting tilerequitvd informatiun from the database and byconverting it into the respective l,MT-format.Furthermore, tim tool is to be extended in such away that it is not restricted to the construction ofMT lexicons, hut c~m also be used as a terminologyworkbench and thus support tim construction andm;dntenance of terminology.
An integra|ed MTand tcrminulogy database would have the advantagethat the Icxical knowledge encoded byterminnlogists aud translators can be used by timtr,'ulslalkm system as wclh For refinement andcompletion of the description of the German lan-guage, it is pl~mned to integrate lurtber i~ffurmationfrom available Gerinan NI,I' lexicons into theI,OI,A-DII.
A basic proldem concerning thisundertaking will bc to identify and to match thebasic categories "entries", "homonyms", "senses",which arc detined in various Icxical resources ac-cording to diffbrent criteria, only some nf which be-ing transparent.
With this erfurt, we hope to gainIhrther knowledge on the limits and possibilitiesconcerning the reusability tff lexical data.5.
ReferencesBarnett, B., 11. l,ehmann, M. Zneppritz (1986): "AWord Database for Natured I,anguage Processing",l'roceedings I l th International Con\]erence on Com-putational Linguistics COLlNG86 Augast 25th to291h, 1986, Bonn, Federal Republic of Germany, pp.435-440.Btumcnthal ct al.
(1988): "Was ist eigentlich einVerweis?-  Konzeptuellc Dateumodellierung alsVoraussctzung computcrgestiilzter Verwcisbehand-lung."
, Ilarras,G.(ed.
): Das WOrlerbuch.
Artikelund Verweisstrukturen.
l)fisseldorf 1988.Byrd, R., N. Calzolari , M. Chodorow, J. Klavans,M.
S. Neff, O. Rizk(1987): "Tools and Methods tbrComputatkmal I,exicography", Computational Lin-guistics,13, 3-4.Byrd, R. J., M. S. Neff" (1987): WordSmith User'sGuide, Research Report, IBM Research Division,Yorktown lleigbts, NY 10598.Chen, Peter P.-S. (1976): "The lintity-RelationshipModel - Towards a Unified View of Data" , ACMTratt~actioas on Database Sy.vtetrtv 1, pp.
9-36.Calzolmi, N. (1989): "The Development of l,argeMuno- and Bifingual I,exical Databases", Contrib-ution to the IBM Europe Institute "Computer basedii ii.g.
in a source-based translation system like LMT, tile information on whether a target slot is obligatory isnot di-rectly encoded in tile I,MT transli~r-lexicon; tile system controls target slot asslgnmeat by tile presence of a corre-sponding source slot in a given input sentence and tile mapping relalion specilied within tim transfer lexicon entry.On the source side, however, the feature of slot obligatorlness i  used for purposes of analysis disambiguation.A~'ES DE COLING-92.
N^I,n"~S, 23-28 ^ ot)r 1992 5 1 5 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992TrarLffation of Natural Language", G~ua'nisch-Partenkirchen.Calzolari et al (1990): "Computational Model ofthe Dictionary F.ntry - Preliminary P, epnrt", Pro/ectAQUILEX, Pisa.IIeid, U.
(1991): A short report on the EUROTRA-7Study, Univ.
of Stuttgart 99t.MeCord, M. C. (1989) "A NEw Version of theMachine 'l'ranslatkm System I,MT", Literary andLinguistic Computing, 4, pp.
218-229.McCord, M. ('.
(1990): "Slot Grammar: A Systemfor Simpler Construction of Practical Natural l~tH-guage Grammars", In R. Studer (ed.
), Natural Lan-guage and Logic: International ScientificSymposium, Lecture Notes in Computer Science,Springer Verlag, Berlin, pp.
\] 18-145.MeCord, M. C. (forthcoming): "The Slot Gram-mar System", In J. Wedekind and Ch.
P, ohrer (ed.
),Unification in Grammar, to appear in MIT Press.McCord, M. C., Wolff, S. (1988): The Lexicon andMorphology for LMT, a Prolog-based MT system,Research P, eport RC 13403, IBM Research Divi-sion, Yorktown lleights, NY 1(1598.Neff/Byrd/Rizk (1988) M. S. Neff, R. J. Byrd, O.A.
P.izk: "Creating and Querying }lierarclficall,cxical Data Bases", l'roceedings of the 2rid ACI.Conference on Applied NLP, 1988.Neff, M. S., M. C. McCord (1990): "AcquiringLcxical l)ata From Machine-readable DictionaryResources for Machine Translation", Proceedingsof the 3rd Int.
Conf.
on Theoretical andMethodological Issues in Machine Translation ofNatural Languages, pp.
87-92.
Linguistics ResearchCenter, Univ.
of Texas, Austin.Storrer, A.
(1990):  "()berlegungen zurReprhsentation der Verbsyntax in einermultifunktional-polythcoretisehen lexikalischenI)atenb.
'mk" , Sehaeder,B./Rieger,B.
(ed.
): Lexikonund Lexikographie: ma.~chinell - maschinell gestatzt.Grundlagen Entwieklungen Produkte,Hildesheim, pp.
120-133.Ri\[non, M., McCord, M. C., SchwaU, U., Martinez,P.
(1991): "Advances in Maehiue Translation Re-search in IBM," Proceedings of MT Summit III, pp.11-18, Washington D.C.ACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES.
23-28 AO~" 1992 5 1 6 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUC.
23-28, 1992
