Aspect-Switching and Subordination:the Role of / t -C lef ts  in Discourse*J udy  De l in  Jon  Ober landerSchoo l  of  Cogn i t ive  and  Comput ing  Sc iences Cent re  for Cogn i t ive  Sc ience  andUnivers i ty  of  SussexFa lmerBr ighton  BN1 9QN Eng landIn t roduct ionIn this paper, we explore a proposal, first put forwardby Prince \[1978\], to the effect that it-clefts serve anapparently subordinating function in discourse.
Inaddition to the cause-and-effect subordination notedby Prince, our own data reveals that clefts are also in-volved in temporal subordination, where the cleftedmaterial appears dissociated from the main time line.Using Scha aud Polanyi's \[1988\] notation, we candraw a local discourse structure that illustrates thegeneral subordination relation involved.
However,this does not coustitute an explanation of why sub-ordination is effected by it-clefts.In an attempt o construct a general explanationfor botb sets of cases, we examine Prince's \[1978\]suggestion that it-clefts serve to mark a piece of in-formation as KNOWN FACT.
We propose that tile AS-PECTUAL EFFECT of using a cleft both explains tbeKnown Fact Effect observed by Prince, and accountsfor the various kinds of discourse subordination as-sociated with it-clefts.We then turn our attention to a third set of data:it-clefts that have a contrastive ffect in the dis-courses in wbicb they appear, and what goes wrongwith those discourses when they are de-elefted.
Insome cases, de-clefting causes no ill-effects.
In othercases, however, no contrastive relation can be re-trieved upon de-clefting and the discourse becomesincoherent.In the final section of the paper, we make somespeculative comments on an apparently related phe-nomenon: the fact that it-clefts cannot ake it as theclefted constituent, which we feel is amenable to adiscourse-structural explanation.The data for the study were drawn from the Sur-vey of English Usage corpus of spoken English, tileLOB corpus of written English, and casually-collecteddata.
*The authors gratefully acknowledge the supportof the Science and Engineering Research Councilthrough a Postdoctoral Fellowship, and Project Granton/Gz2077.
Itono is supported by the Economic andSocial Research Council.
We thank three anonymousreviewers for their helpful comments.
Email contact:judy0coga, ntmx.
ac.
ukHuman Communicat ion  Research  Cent reUn ivers i ty  of Ed inburgh2 Bucc leuch  P lace  Ed inburgh  Scot landC le f ts  and  D iscourse  Subord inat ionBackground,  Cause  and  E f fec tTo our knowledge, Prince \[1978:902\] was the firstto observe that cleft constructions serve a SUBOR-DINATING function in discourse.
She observed thatfor examples like (1) the information conveyed is'background material .
.
.subordinate in importanceto what follows':(1) It is through the writings of Basil Bernsteiuthat many social scientists have become aware ofthe scientific potential of sociolinguistics .
.
.
Yettheir very popularity has often deformed Bern-steiu's arguments; .
.
.he  has been made to saythat lower class children are linguistically 'de-prived' .
.
.
In  fact, Bernstein's views are muchmore complex than that.
First .
.
.She notes in particular that the subordination re-lation involved is often (although not always) oneof cause emd effect, where the clefted proposition isoften intended to be interpreted as the cause.
Shegives the following example:(48a) Here .
.
.
were the ideas which Hitler was laterto use .
.
,  lfis originality lay in his being the onlypolitician of the Right to apply them to the Ger-m~m scene after tile First World War.
It was thenthat the Nazi movement, alone among the na-tionalist and conservative pa*ties, gained a greatmass following and, having achieved this, wonover the support of the Army, the President ofthe Republic, and .
.
,  big business--three 'long-established institutions' of great power.
Thelessons learned in Vienna proved very usefnl in-deed.Prince \[1978:902\] explains the effect of the cleft inher (48a) as follows:?..
If the third sentence of (48a) read Then, theNazi movement .
.
.
,  it would tend to suggest aseparate vent, and we would lose tile notionthat it was all It's doing a notion conveyedvery strongly by tim i/~cleft's ubordinating ef-fect, and underlined (though still not asserted)by the last sentence.\[Prince 1978:902\]Prince's suggestion, then, is that clefts can serveas suitable vehicles for deliveriug information that isbaekgrouudcd to the main flow of the discourse, orthat is contingently related to it, by cause-and-effect.ACIES DE C(IL1NG-92, Nhgll'.
'S, 23-28 AO~t 1992 2 8 1 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NAI, rrES, AUG. 23-28, 1992Tempora l  Regress ionIn addition to the cause-and-effect relations noted byPrince, our own data reveals a further 'background-ing' function: the use of clefts for temporal subordi-nation.
In (2), for example, an //,cleft is being usedto introduce background information elaborating onthe nature of a protagonist in the discourse (Mr. But-ler).
This is done by describing an eventuality thathe was involved in at some previous time:(2) 1.
Mr. Butler, the Home Secretary, decidedto meet the challenge of the 'Ban-the-Bomb'demonstrators head-on.2.
Police leave was cancelled3.
and secret plans were prepared.4.
It was Mr. Butler who authoriscd action whichended in 3Y, members of the Committee of 100being imprisoned.5.
The Committee's president and his wife wereeach jailed for a week.The effect of the cleft is to cause the 'background'information about the anthorisation of action to beinterpreted as as occurring prior to the events intro-duced in lines 1-3- - the decision, the cancellation ofleave, and the preparation of secret plans.If we look at a de-clefted version of the same di~course, we can see that the temporally subordinatingeffect of the cleft is removed, creating a rather differ-ent effect.
The result, (3), has the 'authorisation ofaction' described in the de-clef ted sentence occnrringin simple temporal progression from the 'cancellationof police leave'-- in other words, after the events in-troduced in lines 1-3:(3) 1.
Mr. Butler, the Home Secretary, decidedto meet the challenge of the 'Ban-the-Bomb'demonstrators head-on.2.
Police leave was cancelled3.
and secret plans were prepared.4.
Mr. Butler authorised action which ended in3~ members of the Committee of lO0 being im-prisoned.5.
The Committee's president and his wife wereeach jailed for a week.The  Known Fact  E f fec tExamples uch as (1), (48a) and (2) share a propertythat has been characterised as the KNOWN FACT EF-FECT.
Prince states:Their function, or at least one of their functions,isTO MARK A PIECE OF INFORMATION AS FACT~known to some people although not yet knownto the intended hearer.
Thus they are frequentin historical narrative, or wherever the speakerwishes to indicate that s/he does not wish totake personal responsibility for the truth or orig-inality of the statement being made.\[Prince 1978:899-900\]The cleft can introduce 'new' information to the dis-course, while at the same time signalling that theinformation is to be treated as if it had been thereall along.
A significant feature, then, is that theS<dominan~ <subordina~ ?segment> clefted segment>Figure 1: A discourse parse tree for an it-cleftinformation must be regarded as not open to con-versational negotiation.
Delin \[1991\] proposed thata speaker who uses an it-cleft that conveys new in-formation in the complement is indicating that theinformation they are communicating did not origi-nate with the speaker, and that they are thereforenot to be held responsible for its truth value.This Known Fact account has an intuitive appeal;yet it does not constitute a meehanisable explanationof the role of the cleft in discourse.
One possible av-enue to such an account would be to exploit Polanyiand Scha's \[1988\] Linguistic Discourse Model.
Byadding an appropriate rule to the grammar for dis-course constituent units (DCDS), we could representthe cleft as introducing a DCO to be attached as sub-ordinate to the current node, deriving a local dis-course parse tree such as that in Figure 1.Hence, we can represent the proposition conveyedby the cleft sentence as subordinate to the existingdiscourse structure.
But mere representation doesnot make obvious how the syntactic or semantic fea-tures of the cleft are supposed to drive the assign-ment of discourse structure.
Nor is it obvious thatsuch a subordination structure supports the KnownFact Effect.
There are plenty of other subordina-tion structures in Polanyi and Scha's framework thatdon't indicate that a Known Fact reading should beassociated with the subordinate lements.The  Aspectua l  E f fec t  o f  the  C le f tWhat we want at this point is an account whichcan recruit the syntactic and semantic features ofthe cleft, to explain the background and regress datathat has been observed, feed into the discourse parseprocess, and explain the Known Fact Effect.
Thebasic proposal we explore here is that it is the as-pectual effect of the cleft that provides the requiredexplanation.Aspect  ua l  C lassFollowing Vendler \[1967\], much consideration hasbeen given to the "aspectual types" of utterancesof English sentences (cf.
Hinrichs \[1986\]; Dowty\[1986\]; Moens and Steedman \[19871).
An utterancedenotes an eventuality of some type', the aspectualtype will determine the relation to other eventual-ities mentioned in a discourse.
Vendter's inventoryincludes ACTIVITIES~ ACCOMPLISHMENTS, ACHEIVE-MENTS and STATES, Bach \[1986\] takes the space ofeventualities to include STATES and NON-STATES; inturn, states consist of DYNAMIC and STATIC states,Acr~ DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AnenT 1992 2 8 2 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES.
AUG. 23-28, 1992while non-states consist of PROCESSES and EVENTS.Events are then either PROTRACTED or MOMENTA-NEOUS; momentaneous events are either HAPPEN-INGS or CULMINATIONS.For current purposes, the relevant distinction isthat between states and non-states; in particular,between states and events.
From Bach \[1986:6\],paradigmatic cases of verb phrases exlfibiting thisdistinction include the following:States:  sit, he drunk, own x, love xEvents :  build z, walk to Boston, notice, reach thetopThe aspectual class of an utterance is typically de-termined by the aspectual class of the lexical verb,by other elements within the verb phrase, by tempo-ral adverbials with which the verb phrase co-occurs,and by the noun phrase itself.
Linguistic ontext willalso influence aspectual class assignment.
For exam-ple, a verb normally taken to denote a process, suchas (4), can form part of a verb phrase deuoting aprotracted event, as ill (5); and in combination withcertain noun phrases, tile same verb phrase cau formpart of a sentence (6) de~oting a habitual state:(4) ran(5) ran to the station(6) trains ran to the stationWe can now frame the basic proposal we wish todiscuss: it-cleft sentences are stative; tbe presence ofthe copular in the cleft head ensures this.
We canthus view a cleft as a function taking either non-state-expressions or state-expressions as input, andreturning state-expressions as output.
(Ta) and (8a)denote an event and a state respectively; but both(Tb) and (8b) denote states.
(7) a. Victoria found the body.b.
It was Victoria who found the hody.
(8) a. Victoria knew the killer's identity.b.
It was Victoria who knew the killer's identity.Tempora l  Over lapConsider now theories which attempt o derive thetemporal structure of discourse from the syntacticstructures of a sequence of input sentences.
In theframework of discourse representation theory, workby Partee \[1984\], Kamp and Rohrer \[1983\] and Hin-richs \[1986\] has indicated that it is possible to exploitReichenbach's \[1947\] notions of speech-time, vent-time, and reference-time to drive a process which willadd temporal constraints to a discourse representa-tion structure (DRS).
1In particular, in past tense narrative, simple event-expressions are taken to locate an event at an event-time corresponding to the existing reference-time,and, in addition, to update the reference-time toa point ' just after' that reference-time.
This newtime wil!
constitute the reference-time for the loca-tion of the next input expression.
By contrast, state-expressions firstly locate the state as overlapping the1We do not wish to maintain that a reference-timebased account is the best that can be provided.
It is,however, a convenient representational tool.existing reference-time; and secondly do not updatethat reference time.
Hence, the next input expres-sion (denoting event or state) will be evaluated withrespect o the same reference time again.
In thisway, DRS construction can encode the relative tempo-ral locations of the various eventualities.
In general,one can say that simple event-expressions 'move anarrative along', while simple state-expressions leaveit where it is.
More complex expressions, contain-ing temporal adverbials and perfective or progres-sive aspect, require some complication in the DRS-construction rules.
Take an example like (9):(9) John met Mary in town.
She had broken her leg,but looked well in spite of it.The use of the past perfect can be taken to eitherintroduce a flashback sequence, with a set of 'sec-ondary reference points' (as in Kamp and Rohrer\[1983:260\]), or else to turn an event expression intoall expression denoting tile consequent state of anearlier occurrence of the contained event (adaptingthe somewhat different analysis in Moens and Steed-mall \[1987:4\]).
Assuming the DRT account of statesin general, we would say here that the consequentstate (of Mary having a broken leg) overlapped withthe existing reference time (associated with the eventof John meeting Mary); tile earlier occurrence of anevent (of Mary breaking her leg) being inferrablefrom the perfective description of the leg-breakage.The DRT notion of temporal overlap is a permissiverelation; in a case like (10), we can follow a pair ofevent-expressions with various state-expressions, allof which DRT would say denote states which overlapthe event already introduced.
(10) Someone stole Victoria's car on Friday; theywrecked it.a.
She was very attached to it.b.
She was very annoyed.c.
It was unlocked.In fact, we would want to say that Victoria was at-tached to the car before (and perhaps not after) itwas wrecked; that sbe was annoyed after (and prob-ably not before) it was wrecked; and that its beingunlocked fully overlapped the stealing and wrecking.Arguably, we can view the states in (10a-c) as pro-viding respectively some background, a result and anexplanation for the events ill (10).One approach to representing states is to repre-sent them via intervals of time, bounded by (artefac-tual) begin-events and end-events.
Such an approachis adopted, for example, in Kowalski and Sergot's\[1986\] Event Calculus.
In discourse, of course, it isnot always possible to find explicit reference to anchbeginnings and endings.
Whilst not axlvocating sucha reductivc approach to states here, we note that insome cases, such as the resultant state in (10b) or theperfect state in (9), the event which initiated thatstate may be explicitly mentioned.
In other cases,such as the background in (10a) and tile explanationin (10c), the event which lead to the state may beonly implicit.
2~Capturing these differences in a DRT-based theory ofACFES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Aor~' 1992 2 8 3 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992Exp la in ing  the  DataNow, consider the use of clefts as state-denoting ex-pressions.
We would suggest hat, in this respect,they be treated like the others we have considered.We can say that clefts will denote states which:1.
Overlap with the existing reference time2.
Do not update that reference time3.
Have been initiated by some event, which may beeither explicit or implicit.These facts arise directly from the aspectual typeof the cleft; in turn, they directly account both forPrince's observations, and our own.
Recall examples(1), (48a) and (2).
In the first ease, the informationabout Basil Bernstein's influence is presented via acleft.
Hence, it is presented as a state, overlappingwith  any previously established time.
There is noupdate to the reference time; hence the informationthat follows it temporally overlaps with it as well.What event brought about the influential status ofBernstein's writings is not specified.
Thus, Bern-stein's influence is indeed, as Prince suggests, back-ground to what follows; this is a ease of background,like (19a).In Prince's (48a), the timing of the Nazi move-ment's gathering of mass support is presented via acleft identifying it as the time of llitler's applicationof various ideas.
Hence, the information about thetiming is presented via a s tate- - that  of having gath-ered mass support.
In this case, on the DRT anal-ysis, the state overlaps with a reference-time 'justafter' IIitler's application of the ideas.
Again, thestate does not itself update the reference time forthe next sentence, so what follows overlaps with thestate.
What event brought about the state of masssupport is clear from the context: it is in fact Hitler'sapplication of the ideas, mentioned in the previoussentence.
Thus, this wmdd be a ease of result, like(10b); Prince's suggestion of a causal relation is en-tirely compatible with this.Finally, Mr Butler's authorisation of various ac-tions is presented via a cleft (example (2)).
Hence,we have a state of Mr But ler~of  having authorisedact ion- -and this state overlaps the reference-time es-tablished by the previous sentence.
The state doesnot  update the reference-time, and so tile subse-quent sentence overlaps with this state.
Here, theevent  which brought about the state of Mr Butlerfit clearly his authorisation of action.
It must haveinitiated the state, so it lies before tile current refer-enee time; but we cannot otally order it with respectto the reference-times from the previous entences ofthe discourse.
This explains why there is a feelingof "temporal regression' and the associated removalfrom the main time-line; further world knowledgewould be required to find the actual relative Inca-tree of Mr Butler's action.The reason de-elefting seenm to disrupt the mean-ing of the discourse lies in the fact that it can, ashere, convert a state-expression back into an event-expression.
This then gives the impression thatdiscourse would, of course, require additional theoreticalapparatus; cf.
Lascarides and Asher \[1991\].the speaker-writer is introduciug a new event intothe discourse and updating it in the relevant ways;whereas in the clefted versions, any events intro-duced by the state itself are either implicit, or identi-fiable in the previous context.
Safe de-clefting musttherefore involve the preservation of the stative as-pect of the relevant cleft sentence; replacement witha perfect de-clefted sentence should normally suffice.Note that where the de-clefted sentence is alreadystative, de-clefting should not disrupt the coherenceof the narrative so severely.Exp la in ing  the  Known Fact  E f fec tWe have indicated that the discourse subordinationeffect of clefts can be traced to their aspectual class.This suggests that we can correlate the syntacticconstruction with a semantic feature, and that thisfeature could therefore be recruited by a discourseparsing mechanism, such as the Linguistic DiscourseModel proposed by Seha and Polanyi \[1988\].As we noted earlier, Prince \[1978\] proposed thatwhat the various clefts had in common was that theymarked a piece of information as fact, known to somepeople, but not necessarily to the hearer.
By indi-cating that they do not accept responsibility for thetruth of the statement, the speaker at once deniesthat they are the 'informational origin', and makesit clear that the validity of the statement is non-negotiable.We would like to suggest hat the aspectual ef-fect of the cleft can explain the Known Fact Ef-fect, in the following way.
On one interpretationof Grice's \[1975:46\] Maxim of Quality, we can saythat a considerate speaker's explicit commitmentsmust bc supported by adequate vidence, but thattheir implicit implicatures need not be, so long as thespeaker does not actually believe the implicatures tobe false.
In the discourses we have discussed, eachpiece of information the speaker wishes to conveycan be transmitted via either an event-expression ra state-expression.
When the speaker uses an eventexpression, they are explicitly introducing a new ref-erential element o the discourse: an event.
Let ussay that speakers are 'responsible' for explicit intro-ductions only.
Now, when a speaker uses a stateexpression, they do two things: they explicitly intro-duce a state to the discourse, and they also implicitlyrefer to two further events; the beginning and endingof that state.
But the speaker is not responsible forthose events, because they have chosen to use a con-struction which leaves the events merely inferrable,or loeatable in tile previous discourse context.Lascarides and Oberlander \[1992\] suggest hat ifthere is no 'explicit' indication of where a statestarts- -v ia tile mention of causes or the use of tem-poral adverbials--then the start of the state is as-sumed to be irrelevaut.
Here we may gloss 'irrel-evant' as: unknown, unknowable or simply to betaken for granted.
Thus, conversely, if the speakerdeems the start of tile state to be irrelevant o thediscourse in this sense, then they can use a simplestate-expregsion.
This makes a cleft a natural choicefor a speaker who wishes simply to assert that aneventuality is current at the reference4ime, withoutACRES DE COLING-92.
NANTES.
23-28 ^Oral" 1992 2 8 4 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES.
AUG. 23-28, 1992indicating anything further about it.
So clefts candeliver information which might otherwise have beenstated earlier without disrupting the flow of the dis-course (of.
Polanyi's \[1986:85-87\] 'true starts'); andthey call also deliver information without generat-ing responsibility for an initiating event whose loca-tion may be unknown, unknowable or simply to betaken for granted.
The former type might be assim-ilated to what Prince \[1978\] has termed STIU,;SSED-FOCUS ibclefts, and the latter to her INFOItMAT,VE-PRBSU PPOSITION clefts.Clefts and ContrastThe observation that the cleft initiates a subordinatediscourse segment also provides us with a potentialexplanation for a further set of data, namely thoseclefts which play a eontrastive role in discourse.
3Contrast (cf.
Lyons \[1977\], Werth \[1984\] for a discus-sion) can be described as relationship of oppositionor comparison between two (or more) discourse le-ments that operates on the basis of soine predicate:For example, in tile following case a contrast holdsbetween the cleft head element he angel and a pre-ceding element, Boaz, with respect o the predicateuse this form of greeting:(11) To this the reply is given that from the versedealing with Boaz there is no proof of divine atl-proval, only that Boaz used this form of greeting.But in tile second verse it is the angel that usesthis form of greeting and hence there is evidenceof divine approval.It is important o note that the contrastive rela-tionship t,as two distinct components: the two (ormore) coutrastive lements themselves, and the se-mantic content relating those elements, thereby al-lowing the contrast o take place.
In (11), for ex-ample, the relating semantic ontent is easy to find,since it is explicitly stated twice ill a way that allowsthe commonality between the contrast-supportingpredicates to be retrieved inunediately (used thisform of greeting .
.
.
uses this form of greetiug).
Inother cases, however, the relating semantic ontentis not so simple: understanding the contrast betweendoubling the selling space to 700 square feet and thenewfixturcs and fittings in (12), for example, requiresa contrastive relation to be constructed out of thenon-identical content of the predicates be the great-est e~:pcnse and be costly:(12) Doubling the selling space to 700 square feet wasnot to be tile greatest expense.
It was the newfixtures and fittings ~o fill ~his space that wouldbe costly.A similar effect can be observed in (13), in whicha contrast akes place between tile cleft head ele-ment the lady who obliges and the antecedent a aice3As noted above, while we would hesitate to makea complete assimilation between the two classes, con-trastive clefts seem to fall into the class that P.rince \[1978\]terms STRESSED-FOOUS it-clefts.4The notion that relations of contrast and other kindsof coherence are supported hy inferrable SEAL,S (cf.tlitschberg \[1985\], Ward \[1985\]) wmdd also he a usefulone for this analysis.old-fashioned housemaid in tile following advice tovisitors to grand homes:(13) Quite a few of you have asked about tipping,and these days problems can arise.
A nice old-fashioned housemaid, labelled by cap and apron,is easy enough; when you leave you will give heryour little present as a thankyou for looking af-ter you.
It is the 'lady who obliges' thai can con-found you; on that point, tile simplest way is toquietly consult your hostess.The contrast here operates on the basis of readerperceiving the relationship between the two predi-cates easy enough and can confound yon.
The in-ferrable predicate for the contrast is therefore some-thing like ease of tipping, and the actual predicatesthat appear serve to range the two elements--thehousemaid and the lady who oblige~-at oppositeends of a scale of ease and difficulty:(14) Quite a few of you have asked about tipping,and these days problems can arise.
A nice old-fashioned housemaid, labelled by cap and apron,is easy enough; when yon leave you will give heryour little prczent as a thankyou for looking afteryou.
The "lady who obliges' can confound you; onthat point, the simplest way is to quietly consultyour hoste.
'm.We would suggest hat it is in these more diffi-cult cases, where the contrast-supporting semanticrelation is less obvious, or where the contrastive an-tecedent is less accessible in some other way (forexample, in terms of its embeddedness within thestructure of the discourse) that the cleft comes intoits own.
Evidence for this comes from the fact thatde-clefting in the simpler cases such as (15) does notcause loss of coherence:(15) To this the reply is given that from the versedealing with lloaz there is no proof of divine ap-proval, only that Boaz used this form of greeting.But in tile second verse the angel uses this formof greeting and hence there is evidence of divineapproval.In other eases, however, de-clefting has more dis-ruptive effects.
While contrast is successfully estab-lished by the cleft ill (12), tile de-cleft version, shownin (16), is much less acceptable:(16) ?Doubling tile selling space to 700 square feetwas not to be the greatest expense.
The uewfiz-tu,es and fittings to \]ill this space would be costly.What is happening in the de-clefted cases ill or-der to disrupt the retrieval of the relationship alongwhich the contrast akes place?
In our discussionof subordination abow~., we observed that de-cleftinggives the impression that the speaker-writer is in-troducing a new event into the discourse, while inthe clefted versions, any events introduced by thestate itself are either implicit, or identifiable in theprevious context.
In the same way, in the contrastcases, the loss of the cleft causes the content of thede-cleft to be interpreted as a new and distinct the-matte development.
In this way, the de-clefted infor-mation fails to identify with information already inAcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28/tOOT 1992 2 8 5 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES.
AUG. 23-28.
1992the previous context.
Because of this, the identifi-cation of the contrastive antecedent, and the seman-tic information linking it to the current proposition,are not retrieved.
In situations where this relation-ship is not made clear by means other than the cleft(and it can be effected by intonation, or through theavailability of an obvious and immediately-precedingantecedent--we do not suggest hat clefts are uniquein their contrasting function) the reader's default willbe to introduce a new eventuality into the discourse,probably (in the absence of other signals) as a co-ordination in the discourse structure.
In this way,the information upon which the contrast depends--that the proposition is to be seen as an elaborationon existing content-- is not preserved.Comments  and  Conc lus ionsIn this paper, we have tried to show that variousapparently unrelated aspects of it-cleft funct ion--subordination, the Known Fact Effect, and the factssurrounding contrast- -can be explained in terms ofthe fact that  i~-clefts perform a 'stativizing' function.It is as well at this point, however, to sound a cau-tionary note.
We have not yet examined in full thoeecases where de-elefting leaves a state-expression.
Theprediction is that these cases should not seem as badas when de-clefting reveals an event-expression, butwe have not yet tested the prediction.A related issue which ought to be amenable to apragmatic explanation is the unacceptability of it asclefted constituent3 R-clefts (and wh-clefts, for thatmatter) cannot take it as clefted constituent:(17) *It is it that John has decided he wants.The alternative forms with this and that, however,are acceptable:(18) It is th is / that  hat John has decided he wants.The restriction on if cannot be accounted for bya simple restriction on pronouns in cleft head posi-tion, as personal pronouns can appear, s An obvious,but incorrect, explanation would be that it is theunstressed variant of that (cf.
for example Declerck\[1988:14\], following Kuroda \[1968\]), and so cannotappear in the cleft's 'stressed' position.
However, weknow that it-clefts regularly appear with no stress onthe head constituent (cf.
Delin \[1989\] for an analy-sis); it also appears that it is in any case stressable,as the following (attested) data shows:(19) S: Judy, is there any more soap?J: If yon look in the basket there's that purpleoneS: I thought you were drying some out on theSBall (p.c.)
has pointed out that it is not acceptableas complement of a copular sentence whose subject is itin any case: e.g.
*it's it vs. that's it.SBall \[1991\] and p.c., in her study of the developmentof the it-cleft from Old English to Late Modern English,finds no occurrences of it in focus position either in themodern-day it-cleft or in any of its ancestors.
This is inspite of the fact that the paradigm of personal pronounsin focus position can be considered complete around the15th century, with objective case pronouns (e.g.
it wasme) appearing in the 16th (Ball \[1991:274\]).window.
What happened to IT?J: That 's  itS: Oh, so it isA second plausible explanation may be that it,unique among the pronouns, has no cuntrastive read-ing (el.
Werth \[1984:134\]).
A contrastive function,however, does not appear to he obligatory for il-clefts anyway, as Declerck \[1988\] among others pointsout.
/t-clefts are frequently found with old, non-?ontrastive, anaphoric information in the clefted cou-stituent:(20) A: Joe Wright you meanB: Yes yesA: I thought it was old Joe Wright who'd walkedin at FIRSTand Prince's \[1978:898\] written example:(21) It was also during these centuries that a vastinternal migrat ion .
.
,  from the south northwardstook place, a process no less momentous than theAmhara expansion southwards during the lastpart of the 19th centuryA possible explanation for it-lessness in it-cleftsmay be found in work by Linde \[1979\], who relatesthe alternation of it and thai to the 'in focus' statusof the referent in relation to the structure of the dis-course.
In her study of subjects' descriptions of theirapartments, he notes that it is preferred for 'refer-ence within the discourse node in focus', which Lindetakes to be a continuation of a segment of discoursedescribing the same room in the apartment.
That isused for reference within the discourse node in focusonly when there is some contrast to a preceding node;most of the time, that is used for transitions betweennodes.That is, when a room is being described, a sec-ond room may be described as leading off lhat.
Thattherefore tends to mark progressions from one nodeto the next.
Can we therefore xpect the it-lessnessof it-clefts to relate to their position in the discoursestructure?
That  is, do it-clefts appear only in thesenode-transition situations, and not in the positionsof same-node reference?
We would expect that anexploration of the lack of it in clefts along these linesmight be fruitful.Re ferencesBach, E. \[1986\] The algebra of events.
Linguistics andPhilosophy, 9, 5-16.Ball, Catherine N. \[1991\] The Historical Development ofthe lt.Clett.
PhD Dissertation, Department of Linguis-tics, University of Pennsylvania.Declerck, R. \[1988\] Studies on: Copular Sentences,Cle\]ts, and Pseudo.Clefts.
Volume 5, Series C Lin-guistics, Leaven University Press/Forts Publications.Delin, J.
\[1989\] Cle# Constructions in Discourse.
PhDThesis No.
34, Centre for Cognitive Science, Universityof Edinburgh.Delin, J.
\[1991\] Presupposition,/t-Clefts, and Discourse.Proceedings ofthe ESPRIT Workshop on Discourse Co-herence, University of Edinburgh, April.Dowry, D. \[1986\] The effects of aspectual class on thetemporal structure of discourse: semantics or prag-mattes?
Linguistics and Philosophy, 9, 37-61.ACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Aotrr 1992 2 8 6 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUO.
23-28, 1992Grice, 1I.
P. \[1975\] Logic and Conversation.
In Cole, P.and Morgan, J. L.
(eds.)
Syntax and Semantics, Vol-ume 3: Speech Acts, pp41-58.
New York: AcademicPress.llinricbs, E. \[1986\] Temporal anaphora ill discourses ofEnglish.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 9, 63-82.Hirschberg, J.
\[1985\] A Theory of Scalar hnplicature.PhD Dissertation, University of Pennsylwtnia.Kamp, H. and Rohrer, C. \[1983\] Tense in texts.
InBauerle, R., Schwarze, C. and van Stechow, A.
(eds.
)Meaning, Use and Interpretation of Language, pp250-269.
Berlin: de Gruyter.Kowalski, R. and Sergot, M. \[1986\] A logic-based calcu-lus of events.
New Generation Gomputia9, 4, 67-95.Kuroda, S-Y.
\[1968\] English relativization and certainrelated problems.
Language, 44, pp244-2(16.Lascarides, A. and Asher, N. \[1991\] Discourse relationsand common-sense entailment.
DYAU^ Deliverable2.5b, University of Edinburgh.La-scarides, A. and Oberlander, J.
\[1992\] Temporal Co-herence and Defeasible Knowledge.
Theoretical Lin-guistics, 18.Linde, C. \[1979\] Focusofattention a d thecboiceofpro-nouns in discourse.
Syntax and Semantics Volume 12:Discourse and Syntax.
London: Academic Press.Lyons, J.
\[1977\] Semantics.
Cambridge: CambridgeUniversity Press.Moens, M. and Steedman, M. \[1987\] Temporal Ontol-ogy in Natural Language.
In Proceedings of the ~SthAnnual Meeting of the Association .for ComputationalLinguistics, Stauford, Ca., 6-9 July~ 1987, ppl-7.Partee, B.
1t.
\[1984\] Nominal and temporal anaphora.Linguistics and Philosophy, 7, 243-286.Polanyi, L. \[1986\] The linguistic discourse model: to-wards a formal theory of discourse structure, nBN Re-port No.
6409, Cambridge, MA.
November 1986.Prince, E.F. \[1978\] A comparison of it-clefts and WH-clefts in discourse.
Language, 54, pp883-908.Reichenbach, It.
\[1947\] Elements o\] Symbolic Logic.London: Macmillan.Scha, R. and Polanyi, L. \[1988\] An augmented contextfree grammar for discourse.
In Proceedings COLING-88, Budapest, Hungary, 22-27 August, 1988, pp573-577.Vendler, Z.
\[1967\] Verbs and Times.
In Linguistics andPhilosophy, Z. Vendler, pp97-121.
Ithaca, NY: CornellUniversity Press.Ward, G. \[1985\] The Semantics and Pragmatics ofPreposing.
PhD Dissertation, University of Pennsyl-vania.Werth, P. \[1984\] Focus, Coherence, and Emphasis.
Lon-don: Croom Helm.ACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt3"r 1992 2 8 7 PROC.
OF COLING-92, N^NTrS, AUG. 23-28, 1992
