An A l te rnat ive  to  l )eep  Case  fo r  Represent ing  R ,e la t iomd in format ionNigel WARI) lUniversity of TokyoAbst rac tNo one has come up with a eompletely satisfactory setof deep ca.ses relations (or thematir  rehu.ions).
Theunderlying reason is that any finite set of case relations C&ll capture only some of the gellera\]izatkmsdesired, l prol)ose taste;u\] a feature Sl)aC?
rel)resentation of relational inh)rmation, where tim axes aresuch things as degree of responsibility, degree of nctivity, and degree of alreetxuhless The role of a participant in au ewmt (:all then be described as a pOiltlin tiffs space, allowing more accurate representationof relational information.
The don,ahL of validity ofeach relevant linguist~ic generalizations corresponds toa prototype-centered region in the space.
This proposal is easy to implement.1.
Background'Fhere are sew~ral things thai  a representation ofrelational inforniation should do, and ease does themall, but not w',ry well.1.1 Tit(,.
Prob lo .ms w i th  CaseThe continued failure to come up with a satisfac-tory set of cases is a symptom of the impossibilityof fixing a single set of eases that ham all the desiredproperties.A system of eases should work for the descriptionof more thau a Dw syntactic generalizatious.
Yet,h)r exaruple, the set of things which can be passivesubjects is sot the same rus the set of things that canbe direct objects, and so any definition of patient canae(:oullt for at most oIle of |)nese two.A systmn of eases should reflect similarities ofform.
Yet there are many dimensions of similarity,and any set of cases will account for only some.
Thiscall be seen by considering the fact that many prepositions, for examl)le "with", hal/e meanings whichspan several eases (Tsujii ?'.
Yamanashi 1985).Moreover, similarities of meaning do noi alwaysline tip with similarities of meaning.
For example,whm~ a.ssigning a ease to "w~nd" in "the wind closedthe door", syllta?
suggests agent, as does the semantic feature 'no-covert controller', but the the selnal\]ticfeature 'liot-allilllate' suggests that wind is an mstru-i l lel lt .For two languages the problems gel, worse; choos-ing a set of ea.ses to capture the generalizations ofone language tends to obscure the generalizations ofanother.
To use another old exanq)le, a definition ofagent that works well for English will not suffice torule out inanimate subjects in Japanese.A representation for relational information shouldbe good not only for capturing similarities (generalizations) but also for precise representation, llere too,l thanks Dan aurafsky, atom Edwards, Toshiaki llisada, m~dMitaul)iahi lleavy lnduntries.ctLse often comes/i l) short.
For example, in both "loadthe wagou wzth hay" and "load hay onto the wagon","wagon" is traditioaally *u~signed the same ease, butthis obscures the difference that in the first sentencethe wagon is more a\[fi)cted it; is more likely to befully loaded.
In general, the goal of precise repre,';entatioit suggests lltally specific cases with llarrowill(!anillgs, I)lll t}le goal (if eapt/lrhtg generalizationsSllggeSIs broader c~kse,~.1.2 T im Stat(~ (ff the  Ar t'\[b smnmm'ize, the i)roblem with case is not that'we havell'l l()ltlltl tile right set of ca.se8 yet'  bill thaiit is impossibh~ to find a set of ca-ses which does everything.
The goals of representing wu'ious types ofsimilarity conllict with each other, and these goalsconflir.l, with the goal of being able to precisely represei lt  relat, iona\] intbrlnat.ion.
While ther(!
ill'(!
refi l lemeats which help somewhat (sill) cases ~dlow moreprecision, and multiple inherit~mce from mq)ercasesincreases the Utlluber of generalizations capturable)the problems remain.
(l"or further discussion of pastwork on i:ase see Ward (to ~q)pear) mid the referencescited therein.
)Of course it is always possible to Col)e to uud?cdo with a set of cases which satislles only sonic of thedesiderata.
For one thing, it is possible make do withlimited expressiw!
power, i,'or example, iii;I,Ity tn~>chine translation researchers appear s~ttisfied if theirc~se systeln is just detailed enough to account forchoices among target language prepc~sitions.
It is alsopossible to make do with ~.
system of (:ames that missesgeners./izatioils, l)esigl|ers of Iilaellil|e translatiolt sysLeuls, agaiu, lU'eStllllably luake rough trade offs as tothe relative wdue of sinq)iifying the parser (by choosi l lg a set of c;mcs eo\[iv(}lliellt for t i le source I~mguage)or simplifying the generator (by choosing the eases tosuit the ~argel.
hmguage).Tile probhmis with a system of cases are not always identified as such.
No one ham ever written apaper saying 'I can't make case work for my appliesLion' shortcoutings cau always be COUlpetlsated Rirby t:onq)lie~ting the rules that refl~r to cases. '
i 'hat is,ally I)roposal for a set, of c~mes is un\[~dsifiabl(!
.
.. butit is possible to do betler.2.
P roposa l2.1 Par t i c ipatory  Prot i lesi propose to represent in detail the 'participatoryproperties' of objects.
For ex~Lrnl)h b in the scene involving Jn(l~Ls, Jesus, and a k i t ing ,  Judas can bedescribed as actiwb volitional, very responsible, basically uaafl'ected, a direct-cause, and so ()It.
I willrefer to the set of these properties ~m the 'participa-.tory profile' of that object.
A participatory profile isi l | lp le lnet l ted its it vector  O\]' ra l l ies  over  '(:;~,~e t(-:attlres'.ACRES DE COTING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Aot~Jr 1992 1 1 3 7 Pitoc.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992kissJudas: agentJesus: patientFigure 1 :A traditional representationkissJudas:active .7volitional .7responsible .7affected -.2direct-cause .7Jesus:active -.7volitional -.7responsible -.2affected .5direct-cause .2Figure 2:A 'participatory profile' representation>,aE2~) " Jotm !hn kissed ,' ,Iohn ?stared at Mary.
killed;' himself Mar;.
///'/./ John e?
, ;  got hinlselfJohn " killedaccidentally ,.'"'"
?
Johnkicked " seduced .." .
.
.
.
.
'Y'"Mur~,.
..'"'"" eaail3 .............. .....
.?'""
John ?. "'"
gOlJ~)hn "'"-, %'.
.,/ killed.noticed ',Mary "", ;:l", ?
John~htt ", '; sneezed , was made i John ?'.
to kiss was' i killed.
~ :  the u on iAffectednessFigure 3: A slice of case space, chosen to focus (in causal/inchoative erectsFor example, Judas a.s a kisser may be ( - .2  affected),(+.7 responsible), and so or,, as shown in Figure 2 anda.s contra.sted to the traditional representation shownin Figure 1.A participatory profile is a precise description.To illustrate this with a spatial metaphor, a par, i tipatory profile can be identified with a point in ann-dimensional space, which I will call 'c~me space',where the axes are the ea.se features.
Figure 3 showsan impressionistic projection of this space onto twodimensions, populated with sentences about John,positioned appropriately for his role in them.
Superimposed on this with curved lines is a suggestion ofthe way that a traditional ease account might divideup this space.
This illustrates how case allows onlya relatively coarse description, providing only the op-portunil, y to describe a participant's role a.s being ina certain region of the space.This proposal Mso makes it easy to explain similarities.
For e?ample, comparing the roles of "yeasl"in "yeast makes bread r~se" and "spoon" ill "eat witha ,spoon", they are similar in that both are concreteand directly acting, but different it, that the yea.stis not manipulable, nor is it identifiable as a sep~-rate entity afterwards.
Profile representations of theroles of yea.st and spoor, can show that they are sim-ilar on specific stlared dimensions, while not obscurin K the differences on other dimensions.
Profile rep-resentations also make it easy to quantitatiwdy de-scribe similarity on a single dimension.
For example,it is possible to describe John as active in both "John.~peculated t~i commodities" and in "John watched theducks", but somewhato less active in the latter; thereis no forced choice between assigning John to a casewhere he is active and one where im is not.
(-'.~se is traditionally considered to be a cla.ssific~Lion of tile semantic relations between predicates andtheir arguments, but the proposal replaces it withan account of the roles of participants in events.
Insome languages things like.
individuation or definit, eness, which would seem to have nothing to do with theverb, affect choice of ease markers and constructions(Fillmore 1968; flopper gz Thompson 1980).
q'hus itseems that meaning relations hould relate to the situa,lion, Ilot just to the predicate.
(Here 'situation'is meant in a narrow sense (DeLancey 1991), where"John asked Mar# to leave" involw~s two situations.
)2.2 Prof i les  and  LanguageIamguage refers to regions of case space.
'Fhis istrue, in particular, of 'case markers' ,  constructions,aiid grammatical  roles.Consider for example the Nmily of uses of "of"exemplified in ".lohn died of cancer".
"Of" is usedfor causes which are direct causes, invisible, iInrna-terial, of unknown origin, and at most only slightlycon,toned (Del,ancey 1984).
If direct-cause, visible,and so on are treated a.s ease features, this use of "of"can he described as appropriate for participants in acertain region of ease space.
Ill generM, the meaningsof 'ease markers', that is, words conveying relationalinformation, caa, be identified wit}, regions of easeACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES.
23-28 AO~q' 1992 1 1 3 8 P~.OC.
OF COLING-92, N^NTES, AUG. 23-28.
1992spaceThe tueallings of sonic constructions also can heidentified with regions.
( 'Construction' here is meamin the sense of l"ilhnore, Kay, and (')'('.onnor (1988).
)For a given participant, the extent to which its profih~leads to selection of function words or to mobilization(of constructions (affecting word order), or to bulb,depends entirely on the language.Regions in ca.se space can also he used to describegrammatical  roles.
For examl)le, consider lhe set ofthings which can he subjects of passiw: seld;en(:es.Rather than saying tha.t this includes Iheme.% l)atients, and recipients, provided they meel certahl conditions, we can describe this am the set of things whichare highly topicalized, not very active, alld Inure orless aft'coted; this of course describes a region of (m.sespace.
The set of things which (:~m he direct objectsis another region, ow~rlapping that for t)assive st;b-jeets, but also including the region of highly all'criedthings even if they ~u:e not at all topics, and exchnlingall highly tol)icalized things, and also mildly topical-ized things unless they are highly atfected.
The setof things thai can be tnmsive subjects in Japaneseis yet.
another region, again overlapping but slightlydifferent.'
lb summtwize the ways in which this propos;dsolves the problems raised in Section 1: it allows preelse representation heca/lse instances are rel)resenteda.s points, ;rod this does not conflict with the need t(/capture generalizations, because generMiz;ttlons art:represented as regions; and it can capture all generalizations because there is no assumption of corre-spondence bet, wren the regions required for differentgeneralizations.2.3 Exaln l ) les  and  Deta i l s'.Fo define the regions for various case markers byprecisely specifying their boundaries would he onerous at best.
Instead we can define these inlplicit/yby reference to their prototypica\[ meanings.
For example, the prototypical use of "of" in "die of cati-cer" carl be described as ~ point in case space, ltycomputing the proxinfity of a participator's profiles tosuch prototypes for various case markers it is possibleto determine the m(xst suitable case marker for tha~participant.Similarly for constructions; they are used whena part ic ipant's profile is sufficiently close to tile construction's prototype.
(Polysemous constructions canprobably be amdyzed as having several prototypes.
)For example, one can analyze the Passive Construetion a.s being relevant if a part ic ipant expressed insubject position has a profile is 'closer than 1.2' tothe prototype (affected +1., volitiom:d -1 .
,  responsihie -1 . )
,  as shown in Figure 4.Unlike preposit ions, constructions'  meanings donot form a partit ion of case space; thus a single pointcan fall into the regions of several constructions.
Itis son\]etlnles necessary to elllploy inure than one con-struction to adequately specify the profile of a partic-ipmlt.
For example, to describe a participant who isactive and possibly affected, but not responsible nordirectly affected, the Passive and Causative Construe' lhe t'~asive Coils(ructionexample: "Ma~y wa~, given a fork"('r)l;dd.ioIi (()r i'(deva\[;(:e:expression of a participant closer I.halL 1.2to tile l)rototype, using the we.ights below.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
S?t~?t'Y P(L__weightsaffected -t I.
1volitional ?
I.
.5respolLsihle - l. .5' lhe I)eriphr~usti(: Causative (kmstructionexample: "John nlade Mary go lo C'hzcayo"condition for relewtnce: expression of a participantcloser than 3.5 to the prototype belowprotolype weightsvolitional FI 1.resp(msibh~ -- 1 1.~tctive + I 1.affected -- \[ 1.direct i:;tuse - I \[.The State Ch~mge Constructionex~mqde: ",lohn died"comment: riwd lo the Passive (k)nstruction;prevellts ".\]ohr~ irla.s died"coIIdil, ion for relevaucv: expressloa of a \[)articil)alllcloser than 2.5 to the prototype below;also the availability of a st~tte change-verbprototyI)e weights~fl'e(:ted \] 1 l.voliti(mal - 1 l.responsible -- 1 t.object-of orce 1 1.Figure el: ~olne ronstrllclir)ns whose relevi?ncedepends on profilestiolls lntlst be rise(1 together, a.
~, in a John rllas madelo k~.~s lhe .stalur "; each constructio, expressing SOil|{!dimensions of the participant's profile.
The ide~t of;tdditive colltribntiolts {ronl several constructions callalso be applied Io, for example, "John was k~ssed",where "doh?~" is a perfl~ctly good subject, and also aperfectly good passiw~ s~duect.
This style of aualysis means factoring out infbrmation, which of coursemakes \['or siIHI)~e (OllSIrllctio;ls.\[ise of COllSl.rtlctions provides a way to acc(Hln\[for the 'subcaLegorization' properties of w~rbs.
Toexplain why "John broke the dish" is English but"*lhe magwm~ vanished lhe rabbit" is not, one cansay that the verb %real" can participate m the Lexical Causative ( 'onstructkm but "vanish" can onlyparticipate in the Periphra.stic Causative Construetion.
Thus it is not necessary to directly describe theallowable cases of a verb and their mappings to prep()sitions ~md grammatical  roles; that information canhe factored Oil( into constr:lctions.
That  is~ the caseframe (valence) of a verb ca1 be explained in termsof the constructions the verb can participate in.
(}ralnmatical roles cart ~lso be analyzed in ternLsAC*rES DI.
: COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Aotrr 1992 1 1 3 9 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AU(}.
23-28, 1992feature prototype it)cation weightstopic +1 .6volitional +1 .4active +1 .4responsible +1 .2individuated +1 .2par tial-cause +1 .laffected - 1 .2Figure 5: The first constituent of theSubject-Predicate Constructionof prototypes - for example it haw long been saidthat the prot.otypical direct object is probably thatof "kill" - -  and these prototypes can be mapped intocase space.
Proximity to prototypes can then be com-puted.
This allows, for example, the simple rule: 'forsubject, select tire partieipam which is closest in casespace to the prototypical subject' (to slightly modifya proposal by 1)nwty (1991)).
As sonic fitctors aremore important han others, it is appropriate to as-sign weights to the various case features, to bias thecomputation of proximity.
For example, the weightsfor subject shown in Figure 5 account for subject se-lection (in the context of the system described in Sec-tion 4), explaining:la) John kissed Marylb) Mary made the boy eat a peachlc) Mary was kissed by John (if she is the topic in thelarger context)ld) the wind broke a dtshle) Mary was killed and Mary diedThis account of subject is more parsimonious thana subject hierarchy, that is, a list of cases in orderof preference for which can become the subject (Fill-more 1968), plus rules for overriding it for tire sakeof topics.
This description also ohviat, es the need forexplicit statements that topicness is more importantthan agentivity or that volition is more importantthan activity; such facts are simply encoded in tireweights.In the current implementation of ease space, therange of values for each feature go front -1  to +1.Whereas participants can be located at any point inthe space, it seems appropriate to site prototypes atthe corners or edges of the space.
A few more exan|-pies of profiles are shown in Figure 4, arrd many morein Ward (to appear).3.
Related  WorkAlthough the synthesis is novel, many of the ma-jor components of the proposal have been previ-ously proposed, if in somewhat different guises andfor different purposes For exaanple, Cruse (1973)and Delaneey (1984) studied the components of var-ious meeming relations, Labov (1973) and Miikku-tainen and Dyer (1991) pioneered the use of vectorspaces for describing meaning, Hopper and Thompson (1980) showed how to relate grammatical reflexesto lists of scalar-valued paxameters (features), Ilinton(1981) noted the possibility of using a 'distributedrepresentation f roles', Tsujii and Yamanashi (1985)viewed cases in terms of prototypes and their extensions, Fukuda et al(1986) and Pederson (1991) in-troduced the spatial metaphor for meaning relations,and Dowty (199t) explained how to relate grmnmati-ca\[ relations to prntotype structured clusters of mean-ing relations.4.
Imp lementat ion1 have built a parser (Ward 1992) and a gener-alor (Ward to appear) which use participatory pro-files.
This section discusses the generator, not as apresentation of the best or only way to use profiles,but merely as a demoastration that case profiles areworkable.FIG, a 'Flexible Incremental Generator', producesEnglish and Japanese sentences starting from a mean-ing representation, using spreading activation in aknowledge net, work.
One task of a generator is, givenan input including some items with case profiles, tobuild a sentence whose syntactic form and functionwords reflect those e~e profiles.In FIG case features are implemented ms nodesin the associative network.
They are linked to con-structions and words, with appropriate weights.
Forexample, the node responsible, ,  has a link to thenode by,,,  representing the word "by" , and this linkfias weight +1.The participatory profiles of concepts in the inpntare represented by links to nodes for case fi~atures,appropriately weighted.
For example, the node forMary may have a link with weight .5 to respons ib le ,to represent a given mput.For such an input, when mary, ,  becomes acti-vated, case features will become activated to the degree appropriate for her profile.
In tnrn byw andother prepositions will receive actiw~tion from thesecase features.
The net effect is that the profile fora participant activates prepositions proportionally totheir proximity m case space to that profile.
(Themeasure of proximity computed is, to be precise, thedot product of the vector for the participant and thevector for the prototype.)
The preposition whose prototype is closest will receive the most activatiou, midhence appear in the output.
Like ease markers, colt-structknls receive activation from the profiles of par-ticipants, via case features.
They thus become mobilized to the extent that there is a participant with aprofile matdring that of the construction.
(Some casemarkers appear before the word they flag, others af-ter, and so FIG has a distinction between activationfi'oni the profiles of concepts which remain to be ex-pressed and activation from the profile of the conceptjust expressed.
)Constituents which involve profiles also are linkedto nodes for case features; from these activation flowsto concepts, and so the concept whose participatoryprofile is closest o that activated by a constituent willreceive the most activation.
(Actually the case fea-ture nodes used for activation flow from constituentsto concepts are distinct from those used for activationflow fronl concelpts to ca.se markers and constructions.That is, each case feature is implemented a.s a pair ofnodes; this is for technical reasons.)
There are multi-pie profiles in any non-trivial conceptualization, andACRES DE COL!NG-92, NANTES, 23-28 nOLq" 1992 1 1 4 0 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992it wouht seem that crosstalk aright be a problem, butthis has not been the case in F\[G, primarily hecausegenerally there is one eoltsLruction an(l one (:oncepiwith enough actiwttion to dominate.FI('~ originally expected eep (:as(: relations in itsint)uts , and its grmnrnar and lexicon referred to thosecases.
One problem was that, ~s I extended 1,'lG'scoverage of the two langllages, the nnlnher O\[ cil~seskept growing and the grammar got uglier and uglier.In t)articular, there were lengthening lists of possiblecases for constituents, for example there was at llst offonr possible cruses to nse for subject.
Switching toproliles solved these problems.
Conversion wa.s rela-tively easy; other than the new references to profiles,the grammar did not need to be changed.
Tim addi-tional eomi)utation required is negligible.FIG currently uses 10 (:~use fi~atures: volitional, re-sponsible, active, aflheted, direet-cause, partial cause,individuated, topic, object of-force, and touched;these replace the e~Lses agent, instrument, patient,experieneer, cause and percept.
At this point themeanings of the cause features derive less from theirflames than from the way they are related to the constructions of Jat)anese and English.
This is hecausetbe numeric values for the t)rofiles, although originallychosen according to comlrlon sense arid with referenceto the literature, tlaw~ had to i)e tuned in the courseof making FIG able to generate sentences in both Inn-gnages for a largish mmlber of inputs.
I ascribe nospecial significance to the particular set of profilesenrrentty in nse: they are specific to FIG's currentgramtnar and implementation details.5.
Summary  and  HopesTo summarize the advantages of the prof)osal:Participatory profles are a representation mech~v-nism that allows both precision and generalization-capturing.
Precision is important for being able totel)resent accurately the information that people (:anget from langnage, and it will probably also he useful for artificial intelligence systems in the near fulure.
Better generalization-capturing allows siml)leramt better grammars.
Tbis is important for linguistics, and also for comtmtational linguistic, where thecash vahle will be inq)roved manageability and per-formance for natural anguage systems.
One exampleis machine translation.
If the parser/mMerstanderarrives at a narrow enough eaqe profile for a partici-pant, then it is lmssible to directly find the relewmttarget language constructions t)y cornputmg in whichregions the point lies.
It shouhl thus he posslhle toeliminate the need for contraative knowledge relatingthe regions of the various constrnctions and words ofthe two languages.Judging from my experience converting FIG toprofiles, these advantages may be easy to achieve inpractice.
Of course, to conre u t) with a general theoryof relational information will require agreat deal morework, both on the mechanism and on the analysis oflanguage.This f)ropc,sM is in some ways a logical contin-uation of Fillrrtore's (19681 research i)rogram.
Fill-more wanted to capture linguistic generalizations interms of meaning, not syntactic structures, hi Ward(forthcoming) I suggest hat a processing model candispense with surface syntax struetures also; doingwithout csse eliminates yet another type of intermediate structure typically interposed between thoughtaml hmguage, allowing an even more direct accountof linguistic generalizations in terms of meaning.ReferencesCruse, 11.
A.
(1973).
Sore(: Thoughts on Agentivlty.
Jour-nal o\[ Li):guiMics, 9: I 1 23.Del,ancey, Scott (1984).
Notes ()It Agentivity and Causa-tion.
Studies m Lauguagc, 8121:181 213.DeLaacey, Scott 119911.
|",vent Construal and Case l/.oJeAssignment.
In Berkeley Linguistics Society, Pro-ceediugs o\] the Seventeenth Annual Meeting./)owty, David R. (1991).
Thematic Proto-Roles and Ar-gument Selection.
Lauguagc, 67:547 619.\["ilhnore, Charles J.
(1968).
The Case lot Case.
In E. Bach& It.
Harms, editors.
Urlivcraals in L~nguistic The-ory, f)P. 1 88.
Holt.
Rinehart, New York.Fillmore, Charles J., Paul Kay, & M. C. O'Connor (1988).ilegularity and Miomaticity in Grammatical Con-structions: q?he Cruse of Let Aloim.
Lan9ua9c, 64(3).Fukudlt, I(ttlute, .\[lllt Y~unltguchi, Jun ichi Tsu.iii, &~M~Lsaaki Yamana.~hi 11986).
Kakn Kaishaku toNinchi Kikoo, Sono 2 (Case Interpretation andCognitive Structure, Part 2).
In Proceedings 3rddaparlcse Coguititw Science Society, p. 66.Hinton, Geoffrey E. (1981).
\]lnplementing Semantic Net-works in Parallel Hardware.
In Geoffrey.
E, Hinton& J.
A. Anderson, editors, l)a)nlle.l Models o\] A,q-~ociatioe Memory, pp.
161-188.
Lawrence Erlbaumt\~sociate~.lh)l)per, Paul J.
& Sandra A. Thompson 11980).
Transi-tivity in Grammar and Discourse.
Language, 56:251299.Lahov, William (197:11.
The Boundaries of Words andtheir Meanings.
In Joshua Fishman, editor, NewWays ol Auolyzin9 Variation in English, pp.
340373.
Georgetown University Press.Miikkul~tinen, t/isto & Mich aeI Dyer (1991).
Natural Lan-guage Processing with Modular PDP Networks andDistributed f,exicon.
Cofnitive Science, 15:343 400.Pederson, Eric (19911.
The Ecology of a Semantic Space.In Berkeley Linguistics Society, Proceedings o\] the:Seoenteeulh Annual Meeting.T~,ujii, Jun-ichi & Masaaki Yamanashi (19851.
Kaku tosono Nintei Kijun (Ca~es and Criteria for their Iden-tification).
'I~chnical Report 52-3.
Information Pro-cessing Society of Japan, Natural Language WorkingGroup, Tokyo.Ward, Nigd (1992).
Au Evidential Model of Syntaxfor Understanding.
Technical Report 88-3, Informa-tion Processing Society of Japan, NaturM LanguageWorking Group, TokyoWard, Nigel (forthcoming), A Parallel Approach to Syn-tax h)r Generation.
Artificial h~telligencc.Ward, Nigel (to appear).
A Connectionist Language Gen-erator.
Ablex.
revised and extended version of AFlexil)le, Parallel Model of Natural Language Gen-eration, Ph D. thems and Technical Report UCBCSD 91/629, Contputer Science Division, Universityof California at Berkeley.ACIES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Ao(zr 1992 1 1 4 1 PRO{:.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992
