A HYBRID SYSTEM FOR QUANTIF IER  SCOPING1.
IntroductionA prominent  source of ambiguityconfronting natural language processing systemsis ambiguity of quantifier scope relations.
Forexample, the sentence Some target was hit byevery ar row has one reading on which thequantified noun phrase (NP) some target haswider scope than the quantified NP every arrow(some particular target got hit by all the arrows),and another eading on which every arrow haswide scope (each arrow hit some target or other).Many factors influence preferred scope readings.Semantic factors, for example: in Sam served onebeer to all customers, we prefer wide scope forall because the alternative reading entails theunlikely scenario f patrons huddled around asingle beer mug.
Syntactic factors: e.g.embedded prepositional objects often scope overheads, as in Every teacher at some high schooljoined the union, whereas heads usually assumescope over NPs contained in a relative clause, asin Every teacher who is at some high schooljo ined the union.
Lexical factors (i.e.
the lexicalidentity of quantifiers): e.g.
each tends towardwide scope and a toward narrow scope.
Linearorder is a factor - leftmost quantifiers tend tohave wide scope - and there are others as well.Given the relevance of different factors, aquestion arises: how can a system determine ascope reading based on the combinat ion  offactors present in any given sentence?The standard approach as two parts: f'wst,assign measures to the scoping influences ofspecific factors taken individually, and second,integrate the individual measures.
The first taskis performed by various "specialists".
A systemmay have a lexical specialist which represents hewide scope tendency of each, a specialist whichrepresents the inverse scoping tendency of anembedded prepositional object, a specialist whichrepresents the tendency of quantifiers to scopeaccording to linear order, and so on.
The systemwill prefer those scope orders for whichfint(fspecl, fspec 2 .... ) is optimal, where lint isthe integrating function and each fspec i is aspecialist.
For example, in the system of Groszet.
al.
(1987), the specialists are called "critics.
"Given a candidate scope order, the "left-right"ARNOLD J. CHIENPRC Inc.1500 PRC Dr., 5S3; McLean, VA 22102 USAchien arnold@po.gis.prc.comcritic deducts points for each deviation from left-to-right scope order; the "quantifier strength"critic (i.e.
lexical specialist) uses a numericalranking of quantifiers to add and deduct pointsdepending on how closely the candidate orderrespects the ranking; and so on.
The integratingfunction fint simply adds up the critics' points,though Grosz et.
al.
allow that the critics'judgments may need to be variously weighted insome fashion.
To my knowledge all currentsystems use an "integration of specialists"(henceforth IS) approach, though not always asexplicitly as Grosz et.
al.
; e.g.
lint often isimplicit in the order in which various pecializedrules or preferences are tested in the clauses of acomplex conditional.
See e.g.
van Lehn (1978),Woods (1978), Allen (1987), Hurum (1988),Moran (1988).
(Note that the commoncategorization of IS systems does not deny themyriad differences of detail between systems;indeed the functional characterization is usefulbecause it abstracts over these differences.
)There is an alternative to IS.
In what I willcall "hybridization," different factors areconjoined before any scope judgment is made.
Asystem hybridized for lexical and syntacticfactors has no lexical or syntactic specialists, butrather a single function, call it flex-syn, whoseinput is the conjunction of lexical and syntacticfactors in a sentence.
Given an input withquantifiers ql  and q2 and (relevant) syntacticfeatures s 1, ..., Sn, such a system computesf lex -syn(q l ,  q2,s l  .
.
.
.
.
Sn)  rather thanfint(flex(ql, q2) ,  fsynl(Sl ) ..... fsynn(Sn)).The advantage of this is that scope intuitionscan be recovered irectly.
Take the tendency foran embedded prepositional object o scope over ahead NP.
This tendency varies depending on thequantifiers involved, among other things.
In e.g.Every man on some committee abstained, there isa preference for the embedded NP to assumewide scope, but in A man on many conn,nitteesabstained, the preference seems reversed.
Aprepositional phrase (PP) specialist in an ISsystem will not know how the preferencechanges when a and many quantify the head andthe embedded object; since it is a specialist, itdoes not consider lexical input.
Rather, theACRES DE COL1NG-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt'rr 1992 8 6 0 PROC.
OI: COLING-92, NANIES, AUG. 23-28.
1992system must turn to the lexical specialist, whichfor its part knows e.g.
that a usually takesnarrow scope, but not how the behavior of a andmany varies with specific environments, such asembedded PP constructions.
1t is hard to see,then, how any integration of these specialistscould prescribe a scoping of a over many in anembedded PP context, since both prefer thereverse scoping.
(An additional orderingspecialist may prefer the correct scoping butwithout ad hoc weighting, the integratedpreference will still be incorrect.)
But there is noproblem in a hybrid system, because the valuesflex.syn(every, some, head-embedded-PP) andflex~syn(a, many,  head-embedded-PP) arecoml~letely independent, asopposed to having aPP specialist in common, and can be specifiexthowever intuitions dictate.
Scope judgments arebased on all the lexical and syntactic factorspresent, rather than on each factor taken inabstraction t?om the others.My case for hybridization does not rely oncounterexample, but on the flmdamentallymurky nature of IS.
Consider an analogy.Suppose there is election data showing, for anypair of candidates and any state, the relativevofiug preference when the candidates ran in thestate.
How should we design a system toproduce apreference given two candidates and astate?
A natural approach would be to simplyretrieve the datum based on the candidate andstate input together.
But on an IS approach, a"candidate" specialist would measure a tendencyover all states of the relative performance of thetwo given candidates; a "state" specialist wouldmeasure a tendency over the relativeperformances of all candidates, taken pairwise, inthe given state; then somehow the two measureswould be integrated.
The problem here is thatwhereas the desired datum is a simple, thecomputation is barred on complex abstractionsover much data other than the desired, relevantbit.
That is the basic difficulty of an IS system,which the PP example was meant o illustrate.Though semantic and pragmatic factors alsoinfluence scope, they are not central to mycurrent concern: the design of a "base" scopingunit which can be ported to different domains andadaptively extended, and which can be improvedin~,wementatly as bits of real-world knowledge aregradually added to the system (as with Grosz et.al.
1987, Moran 1988, and Hurum 1988).Hence the focus on syntactic and lexical factors,which make up most of the domain-independentfactors.
I will return to this issue in section 3.2.
\]ImplementationA hybrid scoping system has been fullyimplemented as part of the PRC AdaptiveKnowledge-Ba~d Text Understanding System(Loatman et.
al.
1986).
Figure 1 shows thebasic organization of the PAKTUS scopingmodule (PSM).
I will describe input/output, thedatabase, and the scoping algorithm in turn.logical formdatabaso  1PSMFigure 1.
Organization of Scoping Module2.1 Input /OutputGiven a parse tree, PSM returns a list of thepreferred scope orders of the quantified phrases.No degree of preference is computed.
A scopeorder is represented by an ordered list of thephrases, not by a logical fbrm.Though eventually there will be translationto logical form, there is good reason for delayingthis until after the scope determination.
The.problem with systems which translate a parse treeinto an "unscoped" logical form as input to thescoping module (e.g.
Hobbs and Shieber 1987)is that syntactic influences are not discernible tothe module, since logical structure is notsyntactic structure.
For example, Every teacherwho is at some high school joined the union andEvery teacher at some high scl~ool joined theunion have the same un~oped logical form: forHobbs and Shieber, joined-union( <every t and(teacher(t),at (t,<some h high-school(h)>))>).
Sothe different syntactic influences are invisible.Though syntactic input can of course be added(e.g.
Hurum 1988), doing so amounts to anadmission that the translation was premature.
Itis more efficient o have the input to the moduleconsist just of the parse, postponing thet~mslation to logical form until after the scopingdetermination.
Thus, the translator (not yetimplemented) is not part of PSM.ACrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Ao(;r 1992 S 6 1 Plt~)(!.
oF COIJNG-92, NANrES, AUG. 23-28, 19922.2.
DatabasePSM encodes afunction flex s- defined for -., .vii26 quanti f ier elements, including 9quantificational dverbs uch as always, and 49syntactic environments.
There are three"vertical" environments - embedded PP, reducedand full relatives - and 46 "horizontal"environments, where a horizontal environment isdefined by a combination of grammatical roles,voice, and/or various ordering relations.Defining the mapping from a conjunction ofquantifier pair and environment to a prescribedscope order for the over 9000 mathematically andsyntactically possible conjunctions admittedly isa daunting task.
This may be the main reason toprefer an IS approach.
But while the requiredresearch effort has been lengthy and tedious, ithas paid dividends in a body of data (150 pages,described in the appendix of Chien 1992), whichsubsumes existing consensus on lcxical andsyntactic scoping influences while going deeperand beyond.
However, the corpus is naturallysubject o continual correction and extension, andwhile this upgrading can be accommodated, theprocess is not modular.
It seems to me that thisis the tradeoff for the hybrid's greater precision.Database implementation was motivated bythe desire to make access to the large volume ofdata as efficient as possible.
There are threelevels of data objects.
The first, top-level, objecthas slots corresponding to pairings ofgrammatical roles (subject, direct object, etc.
; fortheir relevance to scope, see Ioup 1975).
In eachslot are pointers to several second-level objects,called "rule groups".
In these, a "conditions"slot contains procedures which test for syntacticproperties such as voice and linear ordering, andanother slot contains pointers to third-levelobjects called "rules".
In these, a conditions lotcontains procedures to test for the lexical identityof a quantifier pair, and an "actions" slot containsprocedures which effect a scope preference.Thus the latter procedures are invoked only afterthe collective syntactic and lexical properties ofthe input are verified.
But checking theconditions in stages via the object hierarchypermits large aggregates ofdata to be eliminatedfrom consideration ateach stage.
Data objects ofall levels total about 325, including asecond top-level object for vertical relations, el.
2.3 below.Database organization is illustrated in Figure2.
If a direct object and adverbial in a clause arequantified, the rule groups in the appropriate slotof RULEGRPS are tested.
If in addition theclause is passive and the adverbial immediatelyprecedes the main verb, then RULEGRtY25 isRULEGRPSsubject-dirobject rgl ,rg2 ....subject-indirobject ...subject-prepobject ...subject -adve~ ...dirobject-indirobject ...dirobject-prepobjectdirobjecl-adverbial "~.~,rg,?.5indirobject-prepobject ... lindirobject-adverbialprepobject-adverbialRULEGRP25conditions adv-preverb,volce-passiverules .... rule112RULE112conditions dirobject-some,adv-decractions setparamsFigure 2.
Database Hierarchyactivated and its rules tested.
If, finally, thedirect object is quantified by some and theadverbial is a "monotone decreasing" quantifiersuch as never, seldom, or rarely (Barwise andCooper 1981) then RULE112 is activated and theprocedure "setparams" invoked.
The effect ofthis - in the context of the algorithm explained inthe next section - is to register a preference forthe object o scope over the adverbial, as e.g.
inHe was seldom seen by some agent.
(Thealternative scoping is awkward, better expressedwith polarity-sensitive any replacing some; forthe treatment of any, see Chien 1991.
)It should not be thought that a hybrid systemcannot exploit generalizations in the data.
PSMcan and must do so, for even with a structureddatabase, search would be relatively slow if therewere as many actual data structures as abstractdata points (i.e.
values of flex-syn).
But in facteach rule represents a cluster'of like points,grouped together by quantifier categories - e.g.
"deer" in RULE112, or the category of universalquantifiers - by boolean combination, or by otherAcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 aotrr 1992 8 6 2 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTEs, AUG. 23-28, 1992generalization, thus gaining economies in thedatabase.
To illustrate generalization bysyntacticinformation alone, consider the verb objects inHe sent a firm each invoice: they appear to scopein order regardless of how they are quantified.To capture this phenomenon, the relevant ruleregisters a preference without checking for thelexical identity of the quantifiers.
Note that thisstrategy subsumes cases which in an IS systemwould be handled by an overriding specialist, i.e.a specialist fo such that fiat fro(X), "") = fo(x) ?In such cases IS is not problematic, buthybridizatiou isequally straightforward.A generalization can also be based onsyntactic information together with partial exicalinfomlation, i.e.
one quantifier only.
It appearse.g.
that sometimes in preverbal position alwaysscopes over a direct object, as in She sometimespolishes each trophy, regardless of how theobject is quantified.
To implement this, the rulegroup that looks for this configuration ofadverbial and direct object has in its rules slot arule whose condition for firing is only that theadverbial is sometimes.
Here is a generalizationover the data points flex_syn(sometimes,x,e), forall NP quantifiers x, where e is this syntacticconfiguration.
Note that the organization of thedatabase precludes an overriding determinationbased on lexical information alone, since syntaxmust always be checked first.
But I amunaware of any lexical preferences which areexceptionless across yntactic environments.The number of rules is farther educed bythe use of a default preference: PSM initiallyassumes cope order to match linear ("natural")order.
This enables the elimination of rulesprescribing natural order, unless the preference isvery strong in that it cannot be undone by anyconflicting preference in a sentence with morethan two quantifiers.
This is explained below.2.3.
Scoping AlgorithmPSM determines the scope order only ofquantificrs all of which arc horizontally related, orall of which arc vertically related (as in Epstein1988).
So, for Every athlete who took somesteroids won a race the system scopes everyathlete and some steroids, likewise every athleteand a race; then the scoping of some steroids anda race is treatext as already indirectly determined.The top-level scoping procedure calls thehorizontal scoping procedure (H-SCOPE) for thetop-level clause of the parsed input.
It thensubstitutes, for each top-level NP in each of theresulting scope orders, an order returned by thevertical scoping procedure (V-SCOPE) for thatNP.
V-SCOPE simply returns its argunmnt NPunless it has an embedded NP.
The recognizedvertical relations are embedded PP, relativeclause, and reduced relative (or any combination).Van Lehn's "embedding hierarchy" (van Lehn1978)  - in which these relations induce inversescope order, natural order, and ambiguity,respectively = is subsumed by the preferences inthe database, which capture the variation ofhierarchy preferences a  quantifiers vary.For sentences with two quantifiers, H-SCOPE basically just does a lookup.
But formore than two, it is non-trivial to determine anoverall order from a set of pairwise orders.
H-SCOPE first assumes the default natural order andinitializes a "record of imposed orders" (RIO).This is a list of quantifier pairs, registering theprescriptions which have been followed to date ina given order; it insures that they will not be laterundone.
RIO is initialized with strong naturalorders, i.e.
naturally ordered pairs which muststay that way.
The main body of H-SCOPE is aloop through the applicable rule groups, then aloop through a group's rules.
If a rule fires, itsets one quantifier to L(eft), the other to R(ight).How this prescription is realized epends on theoverall order under consideration, and on RIO.
Ife.g.
L does not already precede R, R may bepostposed to L or L may be preposed to R, non-equiv',dent options if L and R are not contiguousin the order, an option is not pursued if it undoes apairwise order in RIO.
Resultant new overallorders either eplace or supplement the original,the former if the rule prefers the inverse pairwiseorder to the natural, the latter if the preferences areequal.
The results are then each operated on bythe next applicable rule.For A person in each house on both streetssaw several men who were robbing some bank.v,PSM returns \[both each a several some\] in .7seconds (Macintosh llx Common Lisp 2.0,scoping time only).
Rarely did a park supervisorserving several districts in two counties assigneveryone many trees with no large branches onsome limb which might fall on a passerby gets 4scopings, all with rarely widest and a passerbynarrowest, in 1.283 seconds.3.
ConclusionsAs noted, semantic and pragmatic factorshave deliberately been unaddressed.
But a fewwords are in order on their eventual incorporation.There are of a number of issues that alwaysarise where semantic processing is concerned:compositionality, knowledge representation, etc.But what I want to address is an issue peculiar toACRES DE COIANG-92, NANIES, 23-28 AO~rI 1992 8 6 3 PRO(:.
oV COLING-92, NANTES.
AUG. 23-28, 1992the current system: namely, should semantic(read: semantic/pragmatic) fa tors be incorporatedby hybridization or integration?
That is, shouldleX.sy n be replaced by flex-syn-sem-prag, i.e.
anctaon mat consiaers all relevant tactors beforemaking any scope judgment?
Or should flex-synbe integrated with semantic specialists?
There areproblems with either alternative.The problem with full hybridization is that thedatabase would have to be remade from scratch,since the value flex.s~nosemy~prag(blah) is not afunction of flex syn(btah) lnat is, flex s-n sere ?
- .
.
.~y  -prag(blah) is not the result of combmmg flex-syn(blah) with other judgments based on blah: thatwould be a mixed IS/hybrid model, the secondalternative.
As noted in 2.2, new syntactic orlexical factors cannot be added to PSM in acontrolled way.
The same is true for any newfactors.
My goal in this paper has been to showthat syntactic and lexical factors are well-behavedenough that non-modularity restricted to thesefactors is a burden which however is bearable,and worth bearing.
But if all factors includinginfinite complex meanings are hybridized, theproblems become intractable.
It would be perhapsimpossible to determhae even a large portion of thefunction flex-syn-sem-prag.
And even if it weretroy excrnciatmg out not impossible, the effortwould have to be largely duplicated whenever thedata was extended.
It's not for nothing thatmodularity is a hallmark of good design.
(Notealso, incidentally, that scoping would have toentirely follow translation, unlike Figure I.
)As a working hypothesis I have adopted thesecond alternative.
Yet the argument of section I,extended to semantic factors, suggests that if thesystem is to capture the complex and subtlevariations in human scope judgments, thesefactors should be not integrated but hybridized.To back away from this because it makes theengineering too hard may be understandable, butwe should not forget the joke about the guylooking for lost keys where he knows they aren'tbecause the light is better there.
Modularity maybe imperative for approaching complex problems,but there is no a priori reason why the mind mustbe modular.
Indeed Fodor (1983) has speculatedthat much of it may not be, and hence he ispessimistic about cognitive science.Obviously this is a deep issue, and I do notclaim to have resolved it (for more, see Chien1992).
Nor am I saying either that incomputational linguistics we should model humanminds or that we should just design practicalsystems.
I am suggesting that these goalsultimately may be incompatible - not becauseminds are too imprecise (e.g.
Glymour 1987), butbecause they are too precise.R e f e r e n c e sAllen, J.
1987 Natural LanguageUnderstanding.
Benjamin-Cummings, MenloPark, California.Barwise, J. and R. Cooper.
1981 GeneralizedQuantifiers and Natural Language.
Linguisticsand Philosophy 4(2): 150-219.Chien, A.
1991 How to Scope and TranslateAny.
Georgetown Journal of Languages andLinguistics 2(3-4): 223-233.Chien, A.
1992 Modularity and QuantifierScoping.
Manuscript.Epstein, S. 1988 Principle-Based Interpretationof Natural Language Quantifiers.
Proceedings ofthe Seventh National Conference on ArtificialIntelligence: 718-723.Fodor, J.
1983 The Modularity of Mind.
MITPress, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Glymour, C. 1987 Android Epistemology andthe Frame Problem.
In Pylyshyn, Z., ed., TheRobot's Dilemma.
Ablex, Norwood, NewJersey, 65-75.Grosz, B., D. Appelt, P. Martin, and F.Pereira.
1987 TEAM: An Experiment in theDesign of Transportable Natural-LanguageInterfaces.
Artificial Intelligence 32(2): 173-243.Hobbs, J., and S. Shieber.
1985 An Algorithmfor Generating Quanti f ier  Scopings.Computational Linguistics 13(1-2): 47-63.Hurnm, S. 1988 Handling Scope Ambiguitiesin English.
In Proceedings of the SecondConference on Applied Natural LanguageProcessing: 58-65.Ioup, G. 1975 Some Universals ConcerningQuantifier Scope.
In J. Kimball, ed., Syntax andSemantics, Vol.
4.
Academic Press, New York.Loatman, B., J. Hermansen, S. Post, and C.Yang.
1986 PAKTUS Version 1 User'sGuide.
Report SD-RD-86-2, PRC Inc.,McLean, Virginia.Moran, D. 1988 Quantifier Scoping in the SRICore Language Engine.
In Proceedings of the26th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics: 33-40.Van Lehn, K. 1978 Determining the Scope ofEnglish Quantifiers.
Report AI-TR-483, AI Lab,MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Woods, W. 1978 Semantics and Quantificationin Natural Language Question Answering.
In M.Yovits, ed., Advances in Computers, Vol 17.Academic Press, New York, 2-64.Acres DE COLlNG-92.
NA~zs, 23-28 ho(rL' 1992 a 6 4 PRf)C. ov COLING-92.
NANqTS, AUG. 23-28.
1992
