ANALYS ING DICT IONARY DEF IN IT IONSOF  MOTION VERBSANTONIETTA ALONGEUniversith di Pisa-Dipanimento di LinguisticaVia S. Maria, 36 - 561(X) PISA - ItalyTel.
+39-50-560481; Fax +39-50-589055e-mail: LEM1NTER @ ICNUCEVM.1.
Introductionhi recent years many researchers working in thefield of NLP have turned to large text resourcessuch its machine-readable dictionaries (MRDs)and text corpora, in order to cope with the majorproblem of building a large computationallexicon.
Within the Esprit project "Acquilex ''1the possibility of exploiting existing mono- andbi-lingual MRDs of four languages 2. in order todevelop amulti-lingual nd maximally reusable(by different researchers, for different NLPtasks) lexical knowledge base (LKB) is beingexplored m~d, indeed, we are finding evidencethat important semantic and syntactic informationcan be semi-automatically extracted from thesesources with significant saving in resources,comp,'u-ed to building a lexicon by hand.The task of extracting lexical informationfrom MRDs is a non-trivial one iu that suchinformation is mostly implicit in dictionariesand completely new techniques andmethodologies have to be developed in order toachieve this goal.
Furthermore, it is necessaryboth to take into account the peculiarcharacteristics of dictionary structures and tomake theoretical hypotheses about the kind ofinformation which can be useful for NLPsystems and which therefore should beextracted.
Indeed, these are two of the majorissues being dealt with within Acquilex (anotherone being the issue regarding the representationof the knowledge extracted).
Therefore, ourwork has been guided by theoretical hypothesesand empirical observations at the same time.First of all we assumed the centrality of thelexicon in the organization of natural languages;then, on the basis of the growing interest ofdifferent heoretical frameworks for semanticphenomena and of the fact that contemporarysyntactic theories seem to converge on thehypothesis that syntactic structure is, to a largeextent, determined by word meaning, we tried tosee if it was possible to identify, within ourdictionaries, that kind of semantic informationon verbs which had been described asdetermining fundamental syntactic behaviours ofthe verbs themselves (cf.
Levin 1985; Levin &Rappaport 1991).
Finally, we tried to followsome indications, provided in works such asthose of Pustejovsky (1989) or Boguraev &Pustejovsky (1990), relative to the kinds oflexical data which should be sought withinMRDs and other computerized sources in orderto be able to deal with problems facing thecomputational lingnist aiming at buildingcomponents for NLP.
According to Boguraev &Pustejovsky (1990: 39), i.e., tile followinginformation should be individuated withinsources of lexical data such as MRDs: argumentstructure; event structure (Aktionsart); qualiastructure (Pnstejovsky (1989)); lexicalinheritauce structure.Dictionary definitions are generally structuredso that it is possible to identify two fundamentalparts within them: the "genus term", which isconnected with the entry-word by means of anIS-A (or taxonomical) relation, and the"differentia" part, in which what differenliatesthe entry from its hypernym is indicated 3Within Acquilcx we are improving anddeveloping techniques aimed at exploiting boththe taxonomical organization of information indictionaries and the fact that recurrent structuresand patterns are found in the differentia; suchpatterns are being individuated through apattern--matching procedure (which operates on theoutput of the syntactic analysis of definitions) inorder to associate them with correspondingrelations or semantic / conceptual categories (fordescriptions of methodologies for extractingtaxonomies fiom MRDs, see Calzolari (1984)aud Chodorow, Byrd & fleidorn (1985).
Fordiscussion of this way of analysing thedifferentia, see Calzolari (1991)).
In thefollowing, a research being carried out withinthis project and aimed at developing techniquesfor extracting different kinds of informationrelated to motion verbs is presented.2.
In format ion on motion verbs withindict ionar iesMotion verbs have been the subject of severalstudies by linguists because they presentparticularly interesting semantic and syntacticcharacteristics.
In particular, even if they areoften considered as being a coherent semanticclass (and indeed we speak of "motion verbs" asa whole), we can find verbs displayingdifferent semantic features and syntacticbehaviour in this class.
With our research,ACRES DE COLING-92.
NANTES, 23..28 AOL"r 1992 1 3 1 5 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANrES.
AUG. 23-28, 1992therefore, we have tried to individuateinformation on this class of verbs to be used tofurther classify them according to semanticcharacteristics which subsets of them presentand which are connected with different syntacticbehaviours.By analysing our mono-l ingual Italiandictionaries and the Collins bi-lingual, it ispossible to extract the following kinds ofsyntactic and semantic information on motionverbs, by means of semi-automatic procedures:1) transitivity/ intransitivity/reflexivity4;2) Aktionsart (or "lexical aspect");3) unaccusativity or unergativity (forintransitive verbs);4) components of meaning, typical subjects,thematic roles.While the information in the first point isexplicitly coded within our dictionaries, aprocedure was developed in order to extractinformation on Aktionsart (i.e., to classifyverbs in a Vendlerian fashion (Vendler (1967)))which exploits the taxonomical organization ofdata in dictionaries and the possibility of havinginheritance of information as a consequence ofthe IS-A link.
After classifying "genus term"verbs, we make each hyponym inherit theAktionsart-class from its superordinate verbunless some specific patterns, recognizedthrough a pattern-matching procedure, are foundin the differentia part of its definition.
If this isthe case, the entry-verb considered is classifiedin a different way, according to specific rulesstated in advance (see Alonge (1991)).Information on unaccusativity or unergativity ofintransitive motion verbs (in Perlmutter's (1978)sense) is easily extracted for Italian by takinginto consideration the auxiliary selected by averb (unaccusatives take essere (to be)), whichis indicated in the Collins bi-lingual.Finally, by analyzing the differentia part ofdefinitions, we find information on componentsof meaning of verbs, typical subjects and alsothematic roles.
Components of meaning andtypical subjects are individuated by identifyingrecurrent patterns, clearly referring to specificsemantic ategories, within the differentia.
Forthe time being, a detailed analysis has beencarried out in relation to the verbs within thetaxonomy of muoversi (intransitive tomove) inGRZ (244 entries); we first examined manuallysome of the definitions of verbs within thetaxonomy and individuated recurrent patternsconnected with components of meaning whichwere, therefore, considered potentially relevantto describe the semantics of the whole class ofverbs, even if not every pattern was found ineach definition.
The following are examples ofthe patterns found within the definitionsanalysed and of the components of meaningwhich were connected with them:?
MANNER of MOTION: ~on / come / aNP; AdvP; V-ing?
GOAL: a / incontro a / v~rs9 NP; AdvP?
SOURCE:.
PATH: da .,.
a / da ... verso NP?
MEDIUM: per via di / in / ~.NP?
PURPOSE: ~ VP?
TYPICAL SUBJECT: d~tto di / si ~ti~:g?_LL_,0LY_PA pattern-matching procedure is now beingimplemented which identifies patterns within thedifferentia and relates them to semanticcategories (or typical subjects).
Furthermore,each verb inherits the components of meaningconnected with its superordinate verb(sp.Agitarsi (to toss) is defined (in GRZ, sense 1)as "muoversi con vivacit~t, con irrequietezza, conviolenza" ("to move vivaciously, restlessly,violently"); the genus term muoversi simplyrefers to "the fact of motion" and is notconnected with any other particular componentsof meaning; the PPs which we find in thedifferentia, instead, refer to MANNER ofMOTION, so that our procedure will analyseagitarsi as connected with a MANNER ofMOTION component of meaning.
Fuggire (toescape), then, is defined (GRZ, 1) as"allontanarsi d corsa, per lo pih per evitare unpericolo o un danno" ("to go away at a run,mostly to avoid a danger or a damage"): sincethe genus term allontanarsi is related to a GOALcomponent of meaning, fuggire itself will beconnected with the same component of meaningplus a MANNER of MOTION component (diand a PURPOSE componentv_e~,am~..).Sometimes different semantic ategories may beindicated by the same lexical category / pattern,so that it was necessary to define lists ofspecific (sequences of) words to be connectedwith one of the components of meaning inorder to distinguish instances of it frominstances of the other component related to thesame pattern.
For instance, the same prepositioncan be used in Italian to express differentmeaning categories.
This is the case of thepreposition a (at, in, to...): when coupled withmost nouns (/noun phrases) it indicates GOAL(with motion verbs); however, when it is usedin conjunction with certain nouns, idiomaticexpressions are formed which refer toMANNER of MOTION.
Therefore, in order torecognize the latter cases, we identified a limitedlist of such idiomatic expressions (which can befound with motion verbs) so that when one ofthese xpressions i  found within a definition theverb defined will have a MANNER of MOTIONcomponent of meaning, otherwise, it will have aGOAL component 6.
Andare (to go), e. g., isfound together with "a cavallo" (riding) withinthe definition of cavalcare (GRZ, 1) (to ride)ACTES DE COLING-92, NAN'IT.S, 23-28 AOUT 1992 1 3 l 6 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES, An(;.
23-28, 1992and it is also found with "a letto" (to bed) withintbe definition of coricarsi (GRZ, 1) (to go tobed).
In the first definition the idiomaticexpression "a cavallo" indicates MANNER ofMOTION, while in the second definitiou wehave the indication of a GOAL; therefore,cavalcare will be connected with a MANNER ofMOTION component, while coricarsi will referto motion towards a GOAL.
Similar proceduresare being applied to other cases of ambiguitiesand it seems possible to claim that, even if it isnecessary to do some work by hand, theutilization of MRDs and of such semi-automaticmethodologies of analysis represents asignificant saving both in time and resources.The same information on components ofmeaning was also ntilized to identify thematicproto-roles, according to Dowty's (1988)proposal, whicll has been adopted withinAcqui lex (Sanf i l ippo (1991)).
Dowryindividuated two sets of properties whichcontribute to the definition of "prototypical"agent and patient role and which are entailed byverb meaning:?
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTIES FOR TIlEPROTO-AGENT ROLE:volition, sentience (and / or perception) cansesevent, movement?
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTIES FOR THEPROTO-PATIENT ROLE:change of state, incremental theme, causallyaffected by event, stationary.The argument mving the highest nmnber ofproto-agent properties entailed by the meaning ofthe verb, and inherited by default, is to beassociated with the proto-agent role; timargument of a transitive verb to which thehighest number of proto-patient properties canbe ascribed (inherently via entaihnent relations,and by default), instead, is to be associated withthe proto-patient role (cf.
Sanfilippo (1991)).Thus, since fundamental questions about theidentification, individuation, and even thetheoretical status of "traditional" thematic rolesremain unresolved, we decided to detemfine thesemantic ontent of these basic roles by takinginto account proPerties which are needed forverb classification and which can be identifiedthrough the analysis of definitions describedabove.By examining the verbs within the taxonomy ofmuoversi, we saw that even if they can be eitherstrict intransitives, or strict transitives, orintransitives taking an oblique object, they allimply a subject argument (a proto-agent) whichcorresponds to the "moving object" and forwhich either the manner of motion or thedirection (and therefore, a change of position)can be inherently specified.
The information thatit is the subject of these verbs which is movingis inherited from the genus term muoversi; thespecification relative to the nmnner of motion orthe change of position is found within thedifferentia of definitions and used to encodemore information in relation to the "movingobject" itself.
I.e., if we take into considerationthe definitions of the verbs andare (to go) andoscillare (to swing) given below, we may seethat in relation to the former verb the proto-agentmoves along a path, while in relation to the latterthe manner of motion of the proto-agent isinherently specified:?
andare : muoversi da un luogo verso un altro(GRZ, 1) (to move from one place to another)?
oscillare : muoversi alternamente in qua e in l~to in sue  in gift (GRZ, 1) (to move alternatelybern and there or up and down)3.
Data f rom d ict ionar ies  and theoret icalworksThe data wc have extracted from dictionarieswere indicated as necessary for a computationallexicon within theoretical works (cf.
above).Furthermore, the data related to components ofmeaning can be compared to the results oftheoretical works in which connections amongsemantic and syntactic haracteristics of motionverbs were identified, in order both to verify thevalidity of hypothesis put forward on the basisof observation of limited data and to deriveinformation on syntactic behaviours of largeamonnts of verbs.Tahny (1985) deeply investigated therelationships among surface expressions relatedto tnotion verbs and their semantics acrosslanguages, lie individuated ifferent ways of"conflating" components of meaning acrosslanguages which relate to the different syntacticconfigurations allowed.
The ability to refer tothese lexicalization patterns, ome of which areUlfiversal across languages while some varysystematically defining typologies of languages,can help structure a nmlti-lingual LKB of thesort we are building.
Actually, in dictionarydefinitions we find usefid information i  relationto the kind of "conflation" of components ofmeaning which are allowed in Italian and it ispossible to compare our data with Talmy'sanalyses.
While English (but also Chinese, etc.
)can express at once the "fact of Motion" and itsmanner, (post-Latin) Romance languagescannot, according to Talmy.
However in Italianmany verbs express at once "the fact ofMOTION" and MANNER; what they do notoften express is what Talmy (1985: 141) calls"transhttional motion", i.e.
change of position,and MANNER together 7.
For most verbs inItalian what is relevant is either the manner ofmotion, like, e.g., for camminare (to walk) orthe change of position, like, e.g., for coricarsi(to go to bed).
Actu',dly, in dictionary definitionsACRES DE COLING-92, NANIT..S. 23-28 Ao(rr 1992 13 1 7 I'ROC.
Ol: COI.ING-92, NANrES, AOO.
23-28, 1992we find information on this kind of "conflation"of components of meaning:?
camminare : andare ~ (GRZ, 1)(the pattern underlined refers to MANNER ofMOTION);?
coricarsi: andare aletto (GRZ, 1)(the pattern underlined indicates GOAL).Nevertheless, in Italian there are some manner ofmotion verbs which behave somewhatdifferently.
They are manner of motion verbswhich are both unergative and unaccusative.Correre (to run) has both an unergative and anunaccusative use; when it used in theunaccusative form it refers both to MANNER ofMOTION and GOAL, as can be seen in theexamples below:?
Giovanni ha corso per tre o re /~- Giovanni ~ torsoBoth sentences can indeed be translated as"Giovanni ran", but only with the unaccusativeform (with the auxiliary essere) ,  the goalexpression "a casa" is allowed.
Information onthis characteric of correre can be found withinDMI, where ven if correre is defined as "andarevelocemente" ("to go fast", where the adverbrefers to MANNER of MOTION), it is alsostated that when this verb is used with theauxiliary essere (and, therefore, isunaccusative)it implies a GOAL.Italian may express at once, as noted above, thefact of motion and a GOAL, but also motionplus SOURCE or PATH, with such verbs likeentrare,  uscire,  passare ,  sal i re,  etc., whichhave direct counterparts in English, even if"these verbs (and the sentence patterns they callfor) are not the most characteristic of English",according to Talmy, (1985: 72); indeed verbssuch as enter ,  exit,  pass ,  descend,  etc.
areborrowings from Romance.
The fact that thiskind of conflation is typical of Italian (andRomance) but not of English is furtherdemonstrated by the existence of verbs such asthe above mentioned coricarsi, or esulare (to gointo exile), etc.
which have no directcorrespondent verbs in English.
Also withrespect to these verbs we find useful informationwithin dictionary definitions, as canbe seen in the examples below:?
entrare : andare ~ (GRZ, 1)?
salire : andare vCr,so l'~lto, insu (GRZ, 1)?
uscire : andare f~_~_ (GRZ, 1)(patterns indicating PATH / GOAL have beenunderlined).According to Talmy, then, motion can never beconflated with PURPOSE.
Nevertheless, amongthe verbs we analysed there are some whichseem to incorporate a purpose together withmotion.
Passare  is defined (in GRZ, 1) as:"muoversi attraversando, percorrendo un luogo,per andare in un altro" ("to move crossing oneplace, in order to go to another one"), where"per andare in" refers to the purpose of theaction indicated by the verb.
I fpassare has to beseen as having this component ofmeaning, thenall its hyponyms hould inherit it and so therewould be some verbs indicating at once motionand purpose 8.Levin and Rappaport (1991) further investigatedintransitive motion verbs and claimed that, onthe basis of their syntactic behaviour / semanticfeatures, it was possible to distinguish amongthree classes of intransitive motion verbs:1) arr ive verbs (unaccusative, implying acomponent ofmeaning DIREC'I'ION and telic);2) run verbs (unergative; components ofmeaning MANNER of MOTION +PROTAGONIST CONTROL / NO DIRECTEXTERNAL CAUSE);3) roll verbs (unaccusative; components ofmeaning MANNER of MOTION + NOPROTAGONIST CONTROL / DIRECTEXTERNAL CAUSE).Furthermore, these classes can be relatedsystematically to Vendlerian classification (basedon Aktior~art distinctions; Vendler (1967)).Information found within intransitive motionverb definitions, therefore, was used also fordividing verbs according to the distinctionsindividuated by Levin & Rappaport.By analysing our data we found evidence thatthe component of meaning which is relevant toidentify "arrive" verbs is that of GOAL(DIRECTION); furthermore, the component ofGOAL seems to be relevant also when it ismissing.
That is, the lack of such a componentindicates manner of motion, even if we do notfind patterns related to MANNER within thedefinition.
Vo lare  (GRZ, 1) is defined as"muoversi in aria" ("to move in the air"), where"in aria" indicates the MEDIUM and not themanner of motion.
However, the fact that we donot find an indication of a GOAL componentseems sufficient for classifying the verb as amanner of motion verb and not a change ofposition one.
In order to decide, then, if it is a"run" or a "roll" verb (see above) we use theinformation oll unaccusativity / unergativity,since in our dictionaries we do not find anyreferences tothe existence of control on the partof an agent.
Actually, further study seems to beneeded with respect to such a component ofmeaning and its relation to unaccusativity /unergattvlty, because by analysing our data wefound manner of motion unaccusative verbswhich seem to imply protagonist control (whichwould contradict the hypothesis put forward byLevin and Rappaport).4.
ConclusionIn this paper it has been shown how, byACRES DE COLING-92.
NAN'fI'S.
23-28 AOt~'r 1992 1 3 I 8 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992combin ing  theoret ical  assumpt ions  withempir ical  observat ions,  it is possib le toindividuate information to be used for building acomputat iona l  lex icon for NLP with indictionaries.
At the moment,  we are workingboth for automating the various stages of  theanalysis and for encoding the informationextracted in the multi-lingual LKB which we arebui ld ing (which uses a typed system ofunification as representation language).
At thesame time, our data should be related to datafrom the other dictionaries used within theproject.1 Esprit - BRA 3030 on the "Acquisition of LexicalKnowledge for NLP".
Research teams from theUniversittes of Amsterdam Barcelona, Cambridge,Dublin and Pisa are collaborating w thin this project.2 In Pisa two dictionaries of Italian, ,are being used: theNuovo Dizionario Garzanti (GRZ) and the Dlzionario-Macchina dell'ltaliano (DMI), a MRD mainly based on the"Vocabolario della lingua Italiana" Zingarelli.Furthermore, we also utilize the Collins bi-lingualTtalian-English dictionary.3 As a matter of fact, not all definitions are structured inthis way.
Indeed, other relations (like, e. g., PART-WHOLE relation) are found.
However.
as lar as verbdefinitions are concerned only IS-A relations are found (atleast in our dictionaries).4 In our dictionaries there is no explicit statement aboutthe difference among reflexive verbs inherently reflexiveverbs and those rgahve verbs which h~ve areflexive form(cf.
Burzio (1986:36 ff.)).
Furthermore.
the terminologyused in the two Italian sources is different; however, frrthe time being, we have maintained the terminology whichwe find.5 This information is extracted by analysing thedefinition(s) given for the genus term itself m thedictionary being used.
Then after building taxonomiesautomatically, for each genus term we have to choosemanually (there is no possibility to do it automatically asfar as our mono-lingual Italian dictionaries are concerned)in which sense, among those found within its definitions,the genus term is used in the definitions of its hyponyms.6 Actually, a PP with the preposition a may have othersemantic values; however, within motion verb taxonomiesextracted from our dictionaries it may only have the twovalues hown.7 Talmy (1985: 141) distinguishes between "translational"and "contained" motion: "m the former, an object's basiclocation shifts from one point to another in space.
In thelatter, the object keeps its same basic, or 'average'location".
As a matter of fact.
when he says that Romancelanguages cannot conflate Motion and Manner he ratherseems to refer to "translational motion".8 It is necessary to say that within DMI definition ofpassare there is no reference to a PURPOSE.
However.we are using different mono-lingual sources in order toovercome the limits which each single source present andthat have often been emphasized; so when we findinformation in one dictionary which is missing in theother, we generally keep it and consider it as moresignificant than its lack.ReferencesAlonge,  A.
(1991), "Extraction of  Informationon Aktionsart from Verb Definitions in Machine-Readable Dictionaries", in Proceedings of theI I th International Workshop on Expert Systems& their Applications, Avignon.Boguraev~ B.
& Pustejovsky~ J.
(1990),"Lexical Ambiguity and the Role of KnowledgeRepresentat ion in Lex icon  Des ign" ,  inProceedings of the 13th International COILING,Helsinki.Rurzio,  L. (1986), Italian Syntax, Dordrecht.Reidel.Calzolar i ,  N. (1984), "Detecting patterns in aLexical Database", in Proceedings of the lOthInternational COLING, Stanford (Calif.).id.
(1991), "Acqui r ing and Represent ingSemantic Information in a Lexical KnowledgeBase", in Pustejovsky,  (ed.)
LexicalSemantics and Knowledge Representation.Proceedings of a Workshop Sponsored bythe Special Interest Group on theLexicon of the ACL, Berkeley, Cal.Chodorow,  M. S., R. J .
Byrd  and  G. E.Heidorn (1985), "Extract ing semant ichierarchies from a large on-line dictionary", inProceedings of the 23rd ACL AnnualConference, University of  Chicago.Dowty, D. R. (1988), "Thematic  Protoroles,Subject Selection, and Lexical  SemanticDefaults", 1987 LSA Colloquium PaperLevin B.
(1985) (ed.
),Lexical Semantics inReview, Lexicon Project WPs, 1, Cambridge,MIT.Levin, B. and M. Rappaport (1991) ,"The Lexical Semantics of Verbs of  Motion: thePerspective from Unaccusativity", ms.Per lmut ter ,  D. M. (1978), " Impersona lPassives and the Unaccusat ive Hypothesis",BLS, 4.Puste jovsky ,  J.
(1989), "Current Issues inComputat iona l  Lex ica l  Semant ics" ,  inProceedings of the 4th Conference of theEuropean Chapter of the ACL, Manchester,England.Sanf i l ippo,  A.
(1991), "LKB Encoding ofLexical Knowledge from Machine-ReadableDictionaries", ms.Ta lmy,  L. (1985), "Lexical ization Patterns:Semantic Structure in Lexical Forms",  in T.Shopen (ed.)
Language Typology and Syntacticdescription 3, Cambridge University Press.Vend ler ,  Z.
(1967), Linguistics inPhilosophy, Ithaca, Cornell University Press.ACrEs BE COLING-92.
N^mv:s. 23-28 AOt~q' 1992 l 3 l 9 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES.
AUO.
23-28, 1992
