PRESENTATION OF THEEUROLANG PROJECTB.SEITE, D.BACHUT, D.MARET, B.ROUDAUDSITE12 rue de Reims - 94700 Maisons-Alfort - FRANCEtel : +33 16 1 43 96 72 00e-mail : D Bachut@site-maisons-alfort,frABSTRACTInternational trade in general and particularly theSingle European Market will bring about a considerableincrease in the already huge documentation market.
NLPproducts will contribute to improving thecompetitiveness of industry in this strategic field.The indaslaial objective of EUROLANG is thusto provide fficient NLP tools and to give the Europeanbusiness community a better opportunity to maintain acommand of multilingual technical and commercialcommunication.The technical objective of the EUROLANGproject is to build an MT/NLP toolbox, offering a widerange of 'open' and powerful tools, which reflect thestate-of-the-art in computing and linguistic techniques.These tools will then be validated via the production of amnltilingunl MT system based on second generationprinciples.With respect to the computing aspects, the maintechnical choices are : portability, maintainability,openness, possibility of evolution and ergonomy.
Thisimplies the u~ of standard techniques and tools (UNIX,Xl l ,  MOTIF, C, SQL, SGML).The linguistic developments, based on asyntacticn-semantic analysis, will follow an industrialmethodology, implying formal inguistic specifications.The use of speciatised languages will ensure a betterseparation between software and lingware, and thus bettermodularity.
The three-phase translation processguarantees the multilingual aspect of the MT system.INTRODUCTIONIn the light of the communication society,which is leading industrial companies to becomeinvolved in NLP technology, the EUROLANG parlnexshave decided to pool their technical, human andcommercial resources in order to define and develop anew 'high quality' \] 'low cost' MT system.
This systemwill be based on state-of-the-art computing and linguistictechniques, and is aimed at the market for qualitytranslation with post-editing.To ensure the reusability of the linguisticresources and the possibility of evolution of the system,a powerful toolbox, providing different NLP tools anduseful 'plug and play' functionalities, will be developed.This toolbox will be a linguistic plaffoml providing ausex-liiendly environment to design and davelop differentkinds of NLP applications.In the following paper, we present morespecifically the aims and motivations of the project andthe main technical choices, with regard to bothcomputing and linguistic issues.GENERAL PRESENTATIONA ims  and  mot ivat ions  of  EUROLANGThe technical objective of the project is to buildan MT/NLP toolbox, offering a wide range of 'open' andpowerful tools, which reflect the state-of-the-art incomputing and linguistic techniques.
These tools willthen be validated via the production of a multilingualMT system 'based on second generation principles.
Thissystem will process five European languages (English,French, German, Italinn, Spanish).
Only ten languagepairs (chosen according to the market and partner needs)will be dealt with : the eight pairs involving Englishlanguage, and the two French/German pairs.
Thedictionaries will contain 50 000 terms in each language,and their equivalents in the other 'languages.The general objective is to yield products at theend of the project, which will be targeted on the 'lowcost' / 'high quality' market.
This goal is made possibleby the 1991 state-of-the-art MT technology and willconsiderably increase the share of the nmrket currentlyoccupied by the commercial MT systems.The market is estimated at 12 billion dollars(Gartaer Group figures), and is rapidly increasing.
Thefollowing trends uggest a boom in this market :continuous increase in intematiounl trade,enormous need within the Single EuropeanMarket,shortage and ever increasing cost of qualifiedIranslators,ACTES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AO~ 1992 l 2 8 9 PROC.
OF COLING-92, N^NI"ES, AUt~.
23-28, 1992strategic need for a company involved in acompetitive xport market to possess highquality trauslatinns of techuical and commercialdocuments rapidly available.The Japanese were the fhst to appreciate thestrategic importance of substantial investment in thisfield.
The major coqx)ratious invest considerable sumsarid participate in projects uch as EDR, ATR... Thestate-of-the-art in computing and linguistic technologiesassociated with skills to deM with different Europeanlanguages seems to be a good opportunity for Europe toI>ecome a leader in this sector.The linguistic quality of a translation is ofcourse one of the major criteria involved in theevaluating of nn MT system, however there are others(cf.
\[Roudaud 91\]).
Some linguistic phenomena are verycomplex, and thus very costly, to deal with, whereasanother technical solution, less resource-consuming,could lead to an equivalent (or even better) result, as faras efficiency is concerned.
The industrial issue impliesthat a compromise must be reached, betwean cost,efficiency and linguistic quality : the right solution tothe right problem.
For example, anaphora re a verydifficult linguistic problem to solve, whereas inteclmical docun)eutation the French pronoun il can moreoften he translated iu English by it.
In such it case, abetter solntion would be to propose it, as the defaulttranslation, and he and she as alternatives, o that therevisor can choose one or the other.This last point shows that we must adopt aglobal approach for the design of an MT system.
Notonly is the MT kernel of major importance, but also auser+fiiendly environment, providing many useful toolsfi~r the end-user (IJ'anshator, writer,...), must be desigued.Tiffs is the reason why special attention is paid in thisproject o rite design of the pre- and IX)st-editing tools.For users, an MT system is only a part of thedocume,ttary s stem and integration and connectiou withother tools must be Ioreseen.It is well-known that second geueration MTsystems itre very time-consuming.
Predictions for thecoming years show that workstations will very rapidly)'each 50 or 100 MIPS, and that the cost of MIPS willcontinue to decrease.
All these factors coulribute to thereduction of exploitation costs of MT systems and to theimprovemeut ofdelivery fime/vohane nitio.Organ isat ion  and  main  techn ica l  cho icesEUROLANG is a three-year EUREKA projectwhich began in I~'cember '91.
The first year will mainlyconsist of specifying both computer and linguisticdevelopments.
The two following years will be devotedto development, integrafiou, tests and evaluation.The global cost of the project is 684 MFF(about 14{)M US$).
It involves five Europeancountries: France, Germany, Italy, Spain, UnitedKingdom.
The partners of the project are :- in France :- SITE group (prime contractor)- CAP GEMINI INNOVATIONo CNET- GETA- LADL- MATRA SPACE MARCONI- in Germany :- SIEMENS NIXDORF- KRUPP hidustries- IAI Saarbrilcken- in United Kingdom :- RANK XEROX Ltd.- UMIST (Manchester)- University of Essex- hi Spain :- BDE- Univc~sidad de Barcelona- Universidad anlonoma de Barcelona- in Italy :- LEXICON- THAMUS- Universith di SalernoUinversit~t di Pisa- Universith di TorinoMost of the partners participate in projects inthe field of MT/NLP (EUROTRA, ESPRIT...) and havepractical experience.
The other partners are industmlislswith needs in this area, and they will be very active inthe definition of the end-user stations (pre/post-editing...)and in the evaluation of the products.The project is co-managed by SITE andSIEMENS.SITE, prime contractor of the project, has thetwofold competence : MT/NLP, in particular via itssubsidiary B'VITAL, and industrial documentationmanagement, with respect to writing as well astranslation.
SITE's translators have validated the qualityof die translations produced using the ARIANE MTsystem and SITE is thus convinced that this technologycan be used profitably in an industrial environment (cf.\[Bachut 91a\]).
Unfortuuately, the cost of such machinetranslation is currently so high, that the gain obtained byreducing the translators' work is lost when the cost ofthe CPU used is added to the human cost.
Furthermore,the linguistic quality of the product is not a sufficientcondition for improving the translators' efficiency : thetranslator workstation should be designed to fit thenecessary ergouomic requirements.SIEMENS NIXDORF, which is developing,maintaining, using (SIEMENS' translators use METAL)and Commercialising METAL MT system (cf.
\[Slocum83\], \[Schneider 91\]), is particularly interested by theAc~l~s DE COtiNG-92, NAP?rEs.
23-28 Aot)I 1992 1 2 9 0 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992definition of a common european NLP platform andwishes to improve METAL technology.
This is thereason why SIEMENS NIXDORF decided to play anactive role in the EUROLANG project.
Its commercialexperience is one major advantage ill tile commercialperspective ofEUROLANG.On these bases, SITE and SIEMENSNIXDORF decided that it was neces~try to develop anew MT system, based on a considerably improvedARIANE and METAL technology, considering theadvanced state of cun'ent computer technology and theevolufioo of linguistics.
Technical choices are thusbeing made bearing in mind the industrial needs :portability, maintainability, openness, possibility ofevolution and ergonomy.TECHNICAL  ASPECTSComputer  aspectsAs already mentioned, the main objective is toprovide apowerful toolbox, contahling tools dedicated tolinguistic developments.
One of the most importantcharacteristics of such a toolbox is tile impliedreusability of its components.
A plug and play strategywill thus enable the linguists to develop different kindsof applications using file existing 'components' of thetoolbox.
A 'lingware workbench' will provide all thcfacilities required to specify, implement, test andmaintain these applications.
To facilitate thecommunication between the tools and with externalsystems and titus enable tile plug and play sWategy, anAPI (Application Programming Interface) will bedefined.The toolbox will be designed ill such a way thatnew tools can easily be added, ensuring its durability.Any evolution of the 'state of file art' in computationallinguistics can thus be rapidly takco into account in theEUROLANG product.Most of the initial tools will be specializedlmlguages, allowing the developer (or linguist) to handleconcepts he is used to.
Such linguistic languages willconsist of 4GLs (4th Generation Languages, i.e.specialized progranlming hmguages adapted to specificdevelopments) and the associated compilers andiuterpreters.
This architecture ensures a betterindependance of tile lingware and the softwarc (forinstance, rite pattern matching nmchanism is part of timsoftware and should not be programmed by the linguist),and consequently a better linguistic nlodularity.Lexical and textual data I)ases are also needed inthe toollx)x, to enable an easy management of the lexicaland textual resoumes.
The lexical data base will provide auser-friendly interface to 'add or modify terms.
A flexibleunderlying model is necessary to 'allow modification ofthe linguistic model, and thus modification of thelinguistic information needed in tile dicfiolmarics.l~.eprcsentatiOll of texts and charactels in amull!lingual enviromuent is a crucial issue.
Althoughworks have already been undertaken to solve thisproblem, no general stmtdard exists as yel ,"rod an externaland an inlcmal representation should be designexl, takinginto accouut filly standard of rccolnfl lendation (c.g.
Tex!Encoding hilt!alive rccomlnendation).A geueral exchange humat, bitted on SGML(Standard Generalized Markup I auguage), will thus Iv.
:defined lot both lexical and textual data.
It will guaranteethe openness el the system by allowing the reusabilityof the lingwam.The fiuul MT ciivironnleut will luovide a user~friendly translator's workstation.
Two kinds offunctionalities are fin,'seen : pre-edithlg fntd lU~St-cdilingfunction~dities.
Prc-ediling functionalilies will compriseconveuthmal t~)ls (e.g.
spelling checker) and euhuncedfunctionalities (e.g.
tools to handle \[n;w words andpredict their linguistic behaviour).
Post-editingfunctional!tics will comprise functionalities needed byany ltanslator (even to translate ab in!tie) andfunctionalities specialised 10r MT revisiou.
Among allthe forscen functionalities, the following are worlhultderliuiug : direct accc~ss todictionaries, iu~uulgeulent ofsucccssiw~ annotations, intelligent search and replacemanipulalions, easy access to al~ernalive trauslationsoffered by the MT system, request fl)r informationconceraiu t, the MT system, and other specific wordprocessing functinns.To cnsme that the system is portahle,develoluUents will be umde in C or C++ poitablelauguage (ANSI), under UNIX.
Graphics will heproduced under X-W/NDOW/MOTIt;.
'File staudardscmrenlly ill fuLCe will be respected (St)\] ,, SGMI ,, elc.
).Althuugh UNIX hlt ~', Imcn chosen ttn tile devehllnncnlsduring the pmicct, he I'C world (with WINDOWS) isone of our Inture objectives.L ingu is t i c  aspects'file first applicalion of the toolbox will hc aauiltiliuguai MT system, based on second general!ontechnology :the use by linguists el  specialised languages,e, nsnr i l lg it better Sellaratioll I)etweell theliagwmc aud the st)ltwzue,a Ihree-llhasc hanslal iol l  :: allRlysis, I tansler undyeneration, cn:;uring a better lnulliltilgualaPluOach.The underlying liuguisiic thculy is based on asyntactico-semantic analysis, giving a deeprepresenlaliou f the text ill an atom/died lree structure(ill which each tuxle is ';unlotated' by a set of linguisticfeatutes).
The mail!
tools used in imrfi)rming such anaualysis will bca  slighlly contc:(tnal parser, based onMETAl, pmscr, and a ROBRA.-Iike Ire(: ti'ansducGlAcrEs Dr COLING-92, N^Nt'i!s, 23-28 AO(Yl 1992 1 2 9 1 lq~oC.
OV C()I,ING-92, NANII!S.
At;c;.
23-28, 1992(ROBRA is the tree transtlacor designed by GETA in theARIANE MT system, cL \[Boitet 82\], \[Boitet 86\]).
Thetransfer phase makes it possible to translate words incontext and the generation phase allows the linguist ospecify the surface structure of the text, depending on thedeep sguctm'e calculated.Linguistic development methodology, alreadyused by B'VITAL and SITE linguistic teams, impliesformal inguistic specifications to describe the desireddeep slructure.
These specifications will be perfomedusing a speeialised 4GL inspired by the GETA's staticgrammar formalism (el.
\[Vauquois 85\]).Common linguistic interface structures arebeing defined (in the fast project phase) to facilitate theplug and play mecanism between different linguisticcomponents.
These linguistic interfaces will consist ofthe definition of the minimal requirements which shouldbe followed by the linguistic speficications of all theinvolved languages.
This will also ensure a bettermultilingnalism and make it possible to reduce thetransfe~ phase between two languages.Given that he MT product is designed for use inindustry, acertain umber of characteristics are essentialto the final system :the system should always provide at least onetranslation,when several translations are possible, thepresentation of the different solutions to therevisor should be usex-ffiendly,anpredicted phenomena ornew words should notblock the whole translation process(robustness).CONCLUSIONConsidering the industrial objective of theproject, EUROLANG will provide not only an efficientEuropean MT system, to compete with Japanese andother MT systems abroad, but also an unequalled NLPplatform for large scale NLP application developments.This industrial goal will not prevent alllinguistic and computing developments from being basedon the current state-of-the-art technology.
To ensure thedurability of the toolbox, an R&D stratum will preparefor future versions of the product, in which new toolsmay be added and old ones may be improved.The EUROLANG system will thus give theEuropean business community a better opportunity tomaintain the command of multilingual technical andcommercial eommunication, which is crucial fordeveloping international cooperation and for safegumdingall language specificities.B IBL IOGRAPHY\[Alonso 88\]ALONSO, J., "A model for Transfer Control inthe METAL MT-System", COLING 88,Budapest, 1988.\[Bachut 91a\]BACHUT, D., & at., "Industrialisation d'unsyst~me de TAO fran~ais-anglais pour ladocumentation technique", G6nie Linguistique 91,Versailles, 1991.\[Bachut 91b\]BACHUT, D., & al., "Traduction etTerminologie : exp6rience t perspectivesindustrielles", 2~mes journ6es cientifiques duRL'IT, Mons, 1991.\[Boitet 82\]BOITET, Ch., & al., "ARIANE-78: anintegrated environment for automated translationand human revision", COLING-82, Prague, 1982.\[Boitet 86a\]BOITET, Ch., "The French National MT-Project:Technical organization and translation results ofCALLIOPE-AERO", IBM Conf.
on TranslationMec 'hanization, Copenhague, 1986.\[Boitet 86b\]BOITET, Ch., "Current Machine Translationsystems developed with GETA's methodology andsoftware tools", ASLIB, London, 1986.\[Boitet 871BOITET, Ch., "Current state and future outlookof the research at GETA", MT Summit, Hakone,1987.\[Chandioux 76\]CHANDIOUX, J., "METEO: un syst~meop6rationnel pour la traduction des bulletinsm6t6orologiques destin6s au grand public", Meta21, 1976.\[Chappuy 83\]CHAPPUY, S., "Formalisation de la descriptiondes niveaux d'interpr6tation des languesnaturelles", Th~se 3e cycle informatique,Grenoble, 1983.\[Gross 75\]GROSS, M,, "M6thodes en syntaxe : R6gime descompl6tives", Editions HERMANN, Paris, 1975.\[Gross 90\]GROSS, M., GUILLET, A., "Mod61esLinguistiques", Traitement des LanguesNaturelles, Ecoles d'6t6 du CNET, Lannion,1990.\[Hutchins 86\]HUTCHINS,  W.J .
,  "MACHINETRANSLATION: past, present, future",AL'T~ DE COLING-92, NAN'I~.
23-28 AOt~'l" 1992 I 2 9 2 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES.
AUO.
23-28, 1992Chichester, Ellis Horwood series in Computerand their applications, 1986.\[lsabelle 78\]ISABELLE, P., & al., "TAUM-AVIATION :description d'un syst~me d  traduction automafs6des mannels d'entretien en a6ronantique",COLING, 1978.\[Kugler 91\]KUGLER, M., & al., "The Translator'sworkbench : An Environment for Multi-LingualText Processing and Translation", MT SummitIII, Washington, 1991.\[Perschke 89\]PERSCHKE, S., "EUROTRA", MT Summit II,Munich, 1989.|Roudaud 91\]ROUDAUD, B., "A procedure for the evaluationand improvement of an MT system by the end-user", Workshop on Evaluation of MT Systems,Ste Croix, 1991.\[Schneider 91 \]SCHNEIDER, T.. "The METAL System", MTSummit HI, Washington, 1991.\[Schlitz 91\]SCHOTZ, J., & al., "An Architecture Sketch ofEurotra-II", MT Summit HI, Washington, 1991.\[Scott 89\]SCOTT, B.E., "The LOGOS System", MTSummit II, Munich, 1989.\[S6it6 91\]SEITE, B., "Enjeux du TALN en gestiondocnmentaire : Strat6gie de SITE en ing6nieriedocumentaire", Salon International des Industriesde la Langue, OFIL, Paris, 1991.\[Sloctan 83\]SLOCUM, J., "A Status Report on the LRCMachine Translation System", First Conferenceoll Applied Natural Language Processing, ACL,Santa Monica, 1983.\[Uchida 89\]UCHIDA, H., "ATLAS", MT Summit II,Munich, 1989.\[Vanquois 85\]VAUQUOIS, B., & CHAPPUY, S., "Staticgrammars : a formalism for the description oflinguistic models", International Conference onTheoretical nd M~thodological Issues in MachineTranslation of Natural Language, ColgateUniversity, 1985.AcIES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOl;r 1992 1 2 9 3 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992DiversMisce l laneousACTOrs DE COLING-92, NA~,ql~s, 23~28 At)~JT 1992 1 2 9 4 PRO(:.
OF COLING-92, NA~"rI~S, AUG. 23~28, 1992
