THE ASSIGNMENT OF GRAMMATICAL RELATIONSIN NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSINGLeonardo Lesmo, Vincenzo LombardoDipartimento di Infom~atica - Universila' diTofinoC.~ Svizzera 185 - 10149 Torino - ITALYe-mail: esmo,vincenzo@di.unito.it1.
IntroductionOne of the main goals of an interpreter is to mapthe syntactic descriptions found in the sentenceinto the correct roles that the elements(described by the nominals) play in the situationat hand (described by the verb).
For instance,we must be able to state that in1) The cat ate the mousethe cat is the "eater" and the mouse is the"eaten thing".
Of course, if we only talk aboutroles and situations we miss some significantgeneralizations.
In2) The boy drank the water,if we say that the boy is the "drinker" and thewater is the "drunk thing", we disregard theevident similarity of the roles of "eater" and"drinker" in the two situations.
The notion ofdeep case arises as the common groundunderlying a number of "apparently" differentroles.
Upon this notion some frameworks, thatstand at the core of semantic representation andnatural language processing, are built (see\[Fillmore 68\], \[Bruce 75\] and ISomers 871).The hard task is to devise a mappingbetween the surface descriptions and these deepcases.
The complexity of some syntacticphenomena, like passivization, subject andobject raising, long distance dependencies, hasled many researchers topose an intermediatelevel between the linear string of words and thecase system.
The concept involved is that of"grammatical relation", such as "subject","direct object", "indirect object".
It is claimed,for example, that "passivizatiou" is universally(cross-linguistically) explained if one says thatthe "object" of an active sentence becomes the"subject" in the passive form, rather than bysaying that the NP in the VP is moved toreplace the NP in S (that is a direct mapping).In the latter case it is implicit hat the partictdarlanguage under examination has a Subject-Verb-Object structure (SVO), as it usuallyhappens in configurational languages such asEnglish.
In the example3a) Lo hanno visto gli amici di Piero(Him &tve seen the friends of Piero)3b)  E' stato visto dagli amici di Piero((He) has been seen by l'iero's friends)the passive form does not obey tile law of directmapping.
The example is, however, easilyaccounted fbr by the relational theories.
Thepassivization rule induces only changes offunction: the SUBJ becomes the BY-complement and the OBJ becomes the SUBJ.The importance of grammatical relations,taken as primitives for a universal grammar, isstated by a number of formalisms oftencollected under the label of RelationalGrammar.
The problem is to map the surfaceconstituents into their correct roles.
Withlanguages as Italian, which stands in the middlebetween configurational nd freely orderedlanguages \[Stock 891 some flexibility isrequired to accomplish t is task.
One possibilityis to adopt 11 neutral syntactic structure, open toseveral alternatives in the interpretation process.The head & modifier approach seems to featurethis kind of neutrality, and has effectively beenused for dealing with free word orderlanguages, like the Slavonic languages \[Sgall etal.
861 and Finnish \[Jappinen et al 86\].The dependency formalism we have adoptedis presented in \[Lesmo, Lombardo 91\].
Anexample is reported in fig.l, and concerns thesentence:4) La ragazza ebe lavora al guardarobafu persuasa da un c l iente acomprare una enciclopedia(The girl who works at the wardrobe waspersuaded by a customer to buy anencyclopedia).The daughter nodes that stand on the left oftheir head precede it in the linear order of thesentence, while daughter nodes on the rightfollow it.
The arcs that link the nodes in thedependency tree are of three types: arcs ofstructural and logical dependency (D&S arcs,represented bybold arrows in the figure), arcsof only structural dependency (STR arcs,simple arrows in the figure), and arcs of onlylogical dependency (DEP arcs, dashed arrowsin the figure).
D&S arcs link two words thatstand in a "both structural nd logical" relation.STR and DEP split these two functions of arc:an STR individuatcs a purely superficialAcrEs DE COLING-92.
NAN'~S, 23-28 ^o~r 1992 1 0 9 0 PROC.
or: COLING-92, NANTF.S.
AUG. 23-28, 1992kAPEFISUADEREatRAG~2~ ALAVORARE ~, CLIENTE COMPRb~E\,oo k ./ ~ \.et~', .'
OEld% L~ .,"%%.CI-E A ENCICLOPEDIAGtJ,N:I\[I~V~ UNAJILFig.1 - An example of dependency tree.
Because of space constraints, the figure already in-cludes the grammatical relations that will be described below.
The bold labels (e.g.agt, pat) refer to deep cases.
The labels immediately below them refer to the initialstratum of grammatical relations.
The lowest labels are the last stratum (surfacerelations).
SUB-Goal stands for a GOAL relation expressed via a subordinate sentence.Cho-1 is a chomeur (see text), expressed in Itatian via a BY (DA) complement.attachment, DEP represents a deep dependencybetween two words that are structurallyindependent.
DEP arcs enable us to representlong distance dependencies, the sharing ofdependent odes (i.e.
multiple heads, see fig.
1)and to represent coordinative and comparativeconstructions without violating the adjacencyprinciple \[Hudson 84\], that applies only to STRand D&S arcs l. An arc involving dependency(of DEP or D&S type) is labelled with thegrammatical relation that exists between the twonodes that it links (the arrangement in strata isexplained below).The goal of this paper is to show that theformalism of Relational Grammar can beintegrated in a useful way in a gcneral NLinterpreter, in particular if the surface stntcturesare represented via the dependency formalism.The paper examines the problems associatedwith the use of RG in an interpretive (asopposed to generative) framework, where thephase of surface relation hypothesization iscritical.
The partial configurationality of Italiancan be exploited as heuristic information aidingthe interpreter in selecting the preferable initial1 The adjacency principle intuitively states that a wordB, that stands between the words A and C in thesentence, results in the santo position if we projectIhe related node.~ inthe dependency tree onto a line.hypothesis.
On tile contrary, the RG rulesgoverning the nlappiug between strata airu atconfirming the hypotheses: they are applied onthe basis of the lexical and morphologicalinfonnatioo associated with tile verb, where thelexicon provides tbe first stratum and possibleconstraints on nde applicability.2.
The ass ignment of grammat ica lre lat ionsWe start this section by providing a shortoverview of the main ideas of RG.
Such ideasare shared by many fornlalisms, bttt we.
willmostly refer to the work descr ibed in\[Perlnlutter 83\] and \[l)erhuutter, Rosen 841,where it can be tound a comparison with otherRG fonnalisms.Grammatical relations are arranged in ahierarchy and are usually referred to bynumbers: 1, which is the highest, correspondsto SUBJECT, 2 to DIRECT OBJEC~I ', 3 toINDIRECT OBJECT.
The key principle of RGis the promotion of relations to higher levels inthe hierarchy.
The passive Cml be described as apromotion of 2 to 1 (i.e.
DIR-OBJ to SUB J),leaving the previous 1 element "unemployed".The relation "uuemployed", which is technicallyindicated by the corresponding French wordAcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES.
23-28 AO(n" 1992 l 0 9 1 I)~OC.
OF COLING-92, NAN'rES, AUG. 23 28.
1992(a) (b)give Mary the book John give Mary the book JohnFig.2 - The Relational Networks associated with the sentences "John was given the bookby Mary" (a) and "The book was given to John by Mary" (b).chomeur, is assigned to an element that cannotbe involved in any other promotion.
Consider5a) Mary gave the book to John,where Mary is the 1-element, he book is the2-element and John  is the 3-element.
If weapply the rule for passivization describedabove, the book must be promoted to the 1relation, Mary  becomes a chomeur, whileJohn  is still the 3 element.
The chomeur -1element, i.e.
a chomeur element hat resultsfrom the "unemploying" of a l -e lement ,assumes the surface form of a by-complementin English, thus yielding5b)  The book was given to John byMarywhere Mary cannot be involved in any otherpromotion, because of its chomeur condition.
Asimilar rule applies to double-accusativeconstructions, as shown in fig.2a.At the same level of  promotional rules wecan posit the lexical rules, that account for thedetermination of grammatical relations withinsubordinate untensed sentences, as in 4).
Suchinformation is stored within the lexical entry ofthe verb that governs the subordinate clause.For example, to promise forces the SUBJ ofthe subordinate clause to be the SUBJ elementof the governing clause, as we can see in6) Mary promised John to write him aletter,where the SUBJ of write is Mary,  the same ofpromise .
On the contrary, to persuadeforces the SUBJ of the subordinate to be theOBJ element of the governing clause, as in 4).It must be noted that the lexical rules are relatedto the assignment of relations in the initialstratum, even if they are subsequently changedby promotional rules.
For example, in7) The  gir l  was persuaded by acustomer to buy an encyclopedia,the girl is the element which is still shared bythe two clauses, even if it is the SUBJ now.The semantic interpretation process takesadvantage of the functional analysis, i.e.
theanalysis in terms of grammatical functions:relational structures are easily mapped ontological representat ions,  because of theresemblance between a Relational Network anda Predicate-Argument s ructure: the initialstratum states which are the grammaticalrelations (actually the elements at the sentencelevel) that act as arguments of the predicateidentified by P.From a computational point of  view,syntactic and semantic lues must be taken intoaccount, in order to map the grammaticalrelations onto the surface descriptions.
Themapping is carried out incrementally, i.e.
assoon as the nominal head of the complement isparsed: it is highly language-dependent, andconsiders  features like inf lect ional i ty,conf igurat ional i ty and deep underlyingstructures.
The mapping must also take intoaccount he changes on the surface form that areinduced by the rules on grammatical relations,discussed informally above 2.Unfortunately the mapping raises somedifficulties.
The bias of the rules at the RG levelis of a generative kind.
Rules start from theinitial stratum, the one which is closer to thedeep cases (arguments of the predicate), toproduce the final stratum of the surfacearrangement; on the contrary, in an interpreterof language, the task is to trace what rules havebeen actually applied (and in what order) to theinitial stratum (and the subsequent strata) inorder to achieve the surface realization of thegrammatical relations.
Useful heuristics aredevised to identify the surface clues thatevidence tile application of a particular nile.
Forexample, a passivization is accompanied by apassive form of the verb.Starting from the surface descriptions, the2 Of course, the application of such rules involves alsochanges in focus.
Two expressions that result to bederivable from each other (3a and 3b).
according tophenomena that are explained interms of grammaticalrelations, are therefore not strictly equivalent, even ifboth of them involve the same roles to be played bythe individuals in the ground sentence (or, better, inthe sentence that has been claimed to be ground).Acids DE COLING-92, NANTES.
23-28 AO~r 1992 1 0 9 2 PRec.
OF COLING-92.
N^r,n'I~S.
Auo.
23-28, 1992interpreter is not always able to uniquelydetermine the assignment of grammaticalrelations on the basis of syntactic features.Consider8a) Giovanni il vino Io ha bevuto(John the wine \[it\] has drunk)8b) II vino Giovanni Io ha bevuto(The wine John \[it\] has drunk)Only semantics allows a hearer to realize that inboth cases the "drinker" is John and not thewine.
Hence a flexible interaction betweensyntactic and semantic information (selectioualrestrictions) must be devised.Since in our system the analysis isincremental, in the sense that parsing andinterpretation are synchronous processes, assoon as the dependency tree is extended with ahead of a substructure the semantic interpreter istriggered to interpret i : in the case of verbs, allthe complements that precede the verb areinterpreted when the verb is found, while eachcomplement that follows the verb is interpretedas soon as it is attached to it.The association of the grammatical relationswith the descript ions in the sentence isaccomplished by the rules at the relational level(GR rules), which are divided into threegroups: the first of them deals with the initialproposal of  relations based on syntactic features(Proposal Rules - PR), the second concerns themovement across the strata (Stratal Rules ~ SR),and the third, of  a lexical kind (then LexicalRules - LR), accounts for the sharing ofrelations in unteused subordinate clauses, as in4.
The verbal lexical entry contains, amongother information, its initial stratum ofgrammatical relations.
Once the verb has beenfound, the GR rules are triggered iu order tofind out the roles that are played by the elementsthat precede the verb in the input sentence(incremental interpretation).
It is the actual inputthat determines which of the three groups mustbe applied.
For example, if we have a singleactive sentence (without subordinate embeddedclauses or passive forms), the Proposal Rulesare triggered.
SR and LR rules are activatedonly in presence of special features: a passiveform (was eaten), for instance, activates thePassivization rule (belonging to SR), if we havethe pair <SUBJ,OBJ> in the current stratum,while lexical rules are associated with verbs thatgovern subord inate  c lauses (e.g.
t opersuade).
The result of  the application of oneor more rules is the final stratum, against whichthe assignment of relations guessed by the PRgroup is nmtched.In the PR, the first feature that is taken intoaccount is the syntactic form of the participants.SUBJ  and DIR-OBJ  require that thecorresponding nominals are not preceded by apreposit ion,  and prououns be inflectedappropriately.
For example, in 3a the pronounI0 features an accusative case, thus a DIR-OBJ.If two nominal descriptions are not inflectedand, hence, they cannot be associated witha particular elation via this marking, as in9) 11 gatto mangio' ii topo(The cat ate the n~)use),the position of the nominals can be useful,since, in a partially configuratioual languagesuch as Italian, grammatical relations areusually connected with the canonical positionsof the SVO order: with a transitive verb, theSUBJ precedes the verb and OBJ follows it;witll iutransitive verbs, the position of thenominal without a preposition does not affectthe grammatical relation assigned to, since itwill be surely the SUBJ wherever it is.
If theorder too does not give an unambiguousassignment of grammatical relations, the lastresources are the number agreement for theSUBJ relation and the semantic check.
Insituations uch as10) Le ragazze Giorgio le ha viste(The girls Giorgio \[them\] has seen)even if the nominal descriptions staud on thesame side of a transitive verb, the latter agreesonly with Giorgio in number.
On the contrary,only semantics can solve a situation as 8;moreover, the semantic heck can also reject anassignment made on the basis of the syntacticfeatures that we have described.
Consider, forexample, the sentence11) Un snsso calcio'  il vitello(A rock kicked the calf)Even if the order rules assign an sasso theSUBJ relation and il vitello the OBJ, such anassignment is rejected on the semantic ground.Notwithstanding a system that works correctlycannot be based only on semantics, since asentence like i l  sounds really strange to anative speaker, if we are not in a particularfocussing situation.3.
An exampleIn figure 1, we can find the result of theinterpretation f sentence 4.
When the analysisarrives at lavora, in the relative sentence, itsinitial stratum <SUB J> is retrieved from thelexicon.
Since ehe (who) is a nominal withouta prepositional marker, it (or better the elementrefelTed to) is the SUBJ of lavora, as stated bythe Proposal Rules.
Lavora  has also anadjunct, al guardaroba (at the wardrobe) ,a non-teml relation of type LOC.
The structurefor the nominal description la ragazza chelavora al guardaroba has already been built,ACTES DE COLING-92, NArCrES.
23-28 Aot~q 1992 l 0 9 3 PROC.
Ot: COLING-92.
NAN'IF.S.
At ?;.
23k28 1992when the input word is the verb persuadere .Its lexieal entry provides the parser with aninitial stratum of grammatical relations thatconsists of: a SUBJ, an OBJ and a subordinatesentential Goal (SUB-Goal) 3, i.e.
a persuader,a persuadee and the persuasion.
This basicassignment can be related to the deep cases ofAGT, PAT and GOAL respectively.
Moreover,a lexical rule is contained in the lexical entry:The SUBJ of the subordinate untensed clausegoverned by persuadere is the OBJ elementof the governing clau.~e.Since the verb is in the passive form and thecurrent stratum features a SUBJ and an OBJrelations, the Passivization rule in the SR groupis tr iggered, in order to find the actualarrangement of relations in the input sentence.The new stratum is <SUBJ,  Cho- I ,SUB-Goal>, against which the proposals made bythe PR group are matched.
Since the nominaldescription already found is not inflected and isnot marked by a preposition, the positionalrules suggest that, since it precedes the verb andagrees with it, a possible assignment of relationis SUBJ.
The semantic check, which isactivated on tbe basic relation (i.e.
OBJ)validates uch an assignment, because a girl thatworks at the wardrobe may happen to bepersuaded.
The analysis proceeds to the nextnominal description, with the set of  relations(Cho-1, SUB-Goal) not assigned yet.
Da unel iente (by a cus tomer)  has exactly theform of a Cho-1 in Italian.
The Proposal Rules,whose hypothesis i confirmed by the semanticcheck, are sufficient o deal with this situation.When we find the verb comprare  (buy), thePR group assigns to such a description theSUB-Goal relation and consequently the lexicalrule associated with persuadere  assigns theSUBJ relation of  the initial stratum ofcomprare  to la ragazza the  ....
The initialstratum of comprare  features also an OBJrelation, that will be assigned to eneiclopedia,when it is found.The completeness of the set of foundgrammatical relations is checked when the nodecorresponding to the verb is "closed", i.e.
whenit cannot have further modifiers.4.
Conc lus ionsThe paper illustrates how RG can be used tomap in a principled way surface dependencyrelations into thematic roles.3 '/'he Goal relation, such as Instrument or Location, isa non-term relation and participates only to specialkinds of promotional rules (see \[Perlmutter 83\] fordetails).The main feature of the approach is the strictcooperation among different knowledge sources(lexicon, RG rules and semantics) in carryingout the task: this cooperation is made necessaryby the partial configurationality of  Italian,where the ordering of constituents can only becons idered as the basis for p laus ib lesuggestions, but not as the source of strictsconstraints.
The adoption of an unmarked input(an unlabelled ependency tree) makes availablea flexible starting point that leaves the RGmodule the task of  making the requiredinferences.The ideas expressed herein are implementedin the GULL system (see \[Lesmo, Torasso 83,85al for the syntactic part \[Di Eugenio, Lesmo871 for the basic ideas about semantics): bothlevels of  grammars  are represented viacondi t ion-act ion  rules.
The sys tem isimplemented in Common Lisp and runs onSUN workstations.References\[Bruce 75\] Bruce B., Case Systems for Natural Lang-uage, Artificial Intelligence 6, 1975, pp, 327-360.IDi Eugenio, Lesmo 87\] B.Di Eugenio, L.Lesmo,Representation a d Interpretation fDeterminers inNatural Language, Proc.
10th 1JCAI, Milano, Italy,1987, pp.648-654.IFillmore 68\] Fillmore C., The case for case, in"Universal in Linguistic Theory", (Bach and Harmseds.
), Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1968.\[l-tudson 84\] Hudson R., Word Grammar, BasilBlackwell, Oxford, 1984.\[Jappinen et al 861 Jappinen H., Lehtola A., ValkonenK., Functional Structures for parsing dependencyconstraints, Proc.
COLlNG 86, Bonn, Germany,1986, pp.461-463.\[Lesmo, Torasso 83\] Lesmo L., Torasso P., A FlexibleNatural Language Parser based on a two-level Re-presentation fSyntax, Proceedings of the 1st Con-li~rence ACL Europe, Pi~, Italy, 1983, pp.114-121.\[Lesmo, Torasso 85a\] Lesmo L., Torasso P., Analysisof Conjunctions ina Rule-Based Parser, ProceedingsACL 85, Chicago, USA, 1985, pp.180-187.\[Lesmo, Lombardo 91\] Lesmo L., Lombardo V., ADependency Syntax for the Surface Structure ofSentences, Pro,:.
of WOCFAI, Paris, July 1991.\[Perlmutter 83\] Perlmutter D.M.
(ed.
), Studies in Rel-ational Grammar 1, Univ.
of Chicago Press, 1983.\[Perlmuner, Rosen 84\] Perlmutter D.M., Rosen C.G.,(eds.
), Studies in Relational Grammar 2, The Univ.of Chicago Press, 1984.\[Sgall et al 86\] Sgall P., Haijcova E., Panevova J.,7"he Meaning of the Sentence in its Semantic andPragmatic Aspects, D. Reidel Publ.
Co., 1986.\[Shiners 87\] Somers H.L., Valency and Case in Comp-utational Linguistics, Edinburgh Univ.
Press, 1987.\[Stock 89\] Stock O., Parsing with Flexibility, DynamicStrategies, and Idioms in Mind, ComputationalLinguistics 15, 1989, pp.l-18.ACl'l~.S DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Aot;r 1992 1 0 9 4 PRoc.
OF COL1NG-92, NANTES, AUcI.
23-28, 1992
