TYPOLOGY STUDY OF FRENCH TECHNICAL TEXTS,WITH A VIEW TO DEVELOPING A MACHINETRANSLATION SYSTEMB.ROUDAUDB'VITAL (SITE group)35 rue J. Chanrion - 38000 Grenoble - FRANCEtel : +33 76 51 04 96e-mail : B Roudaud@site-maisons-alfort.frABSTRACTWithin the industrial context of the informationsociety, technical translation represents a considerablecommercial stake.
In the light of this, machinetranslation is considered as being an application ofparamount importance.
It is for this reason that theactivities of B'VITAL have always centered around theprocessing of technical texts.The following article gives an account of thevarious tasks carried oat over the last few years oncorpus analysis.
We have drawn conclusions as to thevalidity of the notion of text typologies, applied inparticular to technical matter, with a view to developinga machine translation system.
The study was conductedusing a fair amount of French documents and has led usto observe in particular, that a same typology may beidentified in texts originating from varying fields.INTRODUCTIONThe technical iterature of a nuclear plantrepresents about 150 000 pages (figure quoted by EDF,France, in 1990).
About 20 000 pages make up themaintenance literature of a an aircraft, of which 5 000are subject to revision every three months on average.In France, the cost per page for a translationvaries from 250 to 400 francs for a translation fromFrench to one of the other European languages(according to Bossard Consultants), which amounts to6 million francs for the maintenance literature of anaircraft.If a machine translation system is able to reduceconsiderably the time spent per page by translators, evenif the result is not perfect, it will signify a gain withrespect to delivery times and costs.To avoid problems concerning non standardisedterminology, we have endeavoured to stick to the termsfamiliar to traditional grammar, even though they maynot always be appropriate.I wiah to thank my colleagues, D. Baehut, O. Gamrat andM.C.
Puerta, for their help.1 - DEF IN IT ION OF THECORPUS STUDYAccording to our method, based on GETA'sworks (Grenoble), if the MT system comes across a nonhandled phenomenon, the sentence is not rejected andtranslation is carried through using those parts of thesentence which have been successfully analysed (CL \[1\]& \[2\]).
Within the framework of an industrialapplication in which the ratio of development costs togain in quality is preponderant, rare phenomena maythus be handled in a very simplified way, or even nothandled at all.Midway between controlled syntax systems andsystems 'which translate verything', our approach toMT favours the development of systems adapted, aposteriori, to the texts to be translated.
This theory goesby the assumption that it is possible to define and thenrecognise the typology of texts, specifying in particulartheir form, the linguistic phenomena present or absentand the general vocabulary used (excluding terminology).The study, which was strongly influenced by theMT application, began in 1984, during the French ProjetNational de Traduction Automatique (PNTAO), with anintensive research phase.
It is still currently in progressalthough only sporadically, with the study of new texts.The first study aimed at proving that it was possible todefine a typology for the given corpus.
Its result was thedefinition of an initial typology (less restrictive than theMETEO typology for instance, see \[6\]), which wasfurther efined (though not radically changed) during theyears which followed.
The definition of file typologyretained consisted of a list of the phenomena handled, inother words, a list of the static grammar charts (Cf.
\[2\]& \[3\]) which are part of the linguistic specifications ofthe system.
We will not give a full formal explanationof the defined typology, however, we will view it from amore informal point of view.The whole corpus was made up of documents inFrench provided by different fh'ms (Sonovision, SITE,A6rospatiale, EDF, Rh6ne Poulenc, Syseca...).
Itconsists mainly of aeronautical documents (maintenancedocuments, job cards...), data processing texts (extractsfrom reference documents or from user guides, orACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AO~T 1992 I 2 8 4 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992software rror messages), minutes of meetings, extractsfrom work schedules or from technico-commercialdocuments.The aeronautical documents which make up thegreater part of the corpus (about 50%), maintenancemanuals and job cards, were initially chosen as the basiccorpus for the PN'fAO for ,several reasons :they were available ill machine readable form, atSouovisiou (which later became the SITE group),they corresponded toa consklerable commercial need,they concerned a sector of strong export activity,they were representative of a large number oftechnologies (mechanics, data processing, fluidmechanics, trength of materials, etc.
).It is for these reasons that they coustitute eventoday, an important source of enrichment for the corpus.The initial corpus was made up of about400 pages taken from maintenance and service guides ofMarcel Dassault aircraft.
Part of the texts, provided withthe English translation, were made up of job cards.
I~tchjob card indicates how to go about a specific servicingoperation.
They contain general recommea&ltions andprecise instructions :NOTA :L'avion dolt ~tre arnarr~ Iorsque la vltessedu vent risque de d~passer bO noeuds.Pour les vents  t res  v io lents ,  i} estpr#f#rable de mettre I'avion sous abrLA - Preparation du travai la.
Proc~dcr au campement de I'avion (voir02.1 I).B - Execution de l'operatlon0 I Deposer" les portes 1905, 1907, 410602 Visser une attache d'amarrage sur chaquererrureThe other texts were ~rvice notes describing anapparatus or a mechanism, how it functions and theservicing procedures tobe followed.
The following is anillustration of this second type of text :section I0 ~ UTILISA\] ION1 I - Description - FonctionnementI ;.I - G~n~ralltesLe raccord auto-obturable d'un {)quipementmtacanlque a pour but d 'assurer  leraccordement  raplde d'une gent)rationl~ydl'aullque ~un banc de test et permet lamlse en fonctlon des d i f f6rents organes decelte g~n~ratlon hydraulique saris perte deI iquide e\[ sans entree d'air.Le raccord auto-obturable sert egalementau rempllssage et au d~gazage des circuits,The study enabled us to pinpoint tilecharacteristic of these two types of texts, It turned outthat their typology was identical.
The main difference isat form level : the first type of text contains enumeratedinstructions, generally described using short phraseswithout fnll stops and which do not exist in the secondtype of text.
'the purpose for extending the study was toiuvestigate the possible existing differences amongstvarious types of documents in various fields.
It turnedout that most of the literature iulended for techniciansCOlXespouds to the original typology.Amongst the other corpora studied (about800 pages form various fields, e.g.
electrical installationmanuals, computer manuals and advetlisiug, softwaremanuals and advertising, aeronautical texts, descriptionof composite materials, maintenance documentation formechanical installations, etc.
), we have classified thetexts into two groups :texts pertinent o the initial corpus, in otherwords those texts whose typology was identicalor closely re~sembled that of the first corpus,non-pertinent texts containing new phenomena.311is econd type of text will probably require asub-categorisatiou into other typologies (a tasknot as yet carried out).Typology is field independent.
We have receivedextracts tiom aeronautical documents, provided byAdrospatiale.
Some of these texts tall into the non-pertinent category, while others fall into rite pertinentcategory.
Furthermore, it was found that textsoriginating h'om different fields (data processing orelectrical engineering, for example) fell into thetypology.Amongst the non-pertinent texts we foundmainly texts which require rewriting rather thanIxanslatinn, lot instance user manuals (at least thoseintended for non specialists), scientific articles,advertising and legal texts.
Such texts are obviously lessadapted to MT.
We a l~ found minutes of meetings andclient service reports, whose syntax is often veryf,.mciful.As far as quantity goes, the volume of technicaltaatter is much greater than that of advertising and legalmatter (Cf.
Van Dijk consultancy figures), Maintenanceand service guides, intended for specialists, and referetlceguides represent a much greater volume than that of userguides, intended for non-specialists (which are lesshoxnogenoas typologically speaking).2 - RESULT  OF  THE CORPUSSTUDYThe study laid rile emphasis on the problemsdirectly related to tn, mslation, in particular with respectto accuracy,The sub-sections wlfich follow illustrate tiledefined typology mid instance the linguistic phenomenanot encountered in the so-called pertinent texts studied.Several points must be underlined :ACRES DI!
COLING-92, NAN'lJ~S, 23-28 AOl~q' 1992 l 2 8 5 PREC.
OF COL1NG-92, NANrES, AUG. 23-28, 19921- any phenomenon classed as being absent maynevertheless bemarginally present in a text ;2- the corpus tudy showed that few of the phenomenaabsent from the initial study were later added.2.1.
FREQUENT PHENOMENAIt is not possible to list fully all the phenomenaencountered.
We will however endeavour to give themain features of the typology of the texts tudied, givingthe most unusual or significant examples (from thepertinent corpus).
The following hence plays more of anillustrative role than a descriptive role.Punctuation1-  CommasGenerally speaking, puntuation is used somewhatirregularly.
There are few commas, and they do notalways appear where they would normally beexpected.
Consequently, it appears pointless to usethem for linguistic purposes, for example, in thedetermining of the limit of a coordination.2 - Full stopsAs previously mentioned, the job cards come in theform of enumerated operations.
Each operation isdescribed by one or more small paragraphscontaining sentences, As a rule, there are no fullstops indicating the end of a paragraph :01 Ouvrir los verr lTresNOTA :L ' lnspect ion  extdr leure  de I 'avions 'e f fectue par le pilot@ accompagn6 dumecanicien.
Ell@ @st exTcut~e darts le sensdes aiguil les d'une montre, en partant de lagauche du poste avant02 Contr61er que...EnumerationsEvery possible type of enumexation can be found.
Ineach case, processing isdelicate :S'assurer que :l 'ass iette de I'avion reste volsine de laligne de vol- la manoeuvre ne pr~sente pas de dangerNOTA :...le mTcanicien doit :s'assurer de l'absence de fultes d'hulle...inspecter le rev~tement : sur les @l~mentsen s t ra t i f i~  l i s t , s  cl-apres, s'assurer deI 'dtat de la peinture et de 1'absenced'ental ie ou blessure- karmans voi lure- fuselage intrados etarMTre- saumons voilureInfinitive clausesThey are veay frequent in the texts, especially asoperations to be carried out are described using theinfinitive form (and not using the imperative form :faites ceci, or personal form : vous faites ceci ).
Theyappear as the main clause of a sentence, as an object oras an adverbial :Apres avow solgneusement ass@ch6 lespart ie externes du raccord, soumettrecelul-c l  a une pression interne de 0,6 barpendant 5 minutes......it est prdfTrable de mettre l 'avion sousabris.Ne pas tendre exag~rement les cordes.Aglr sur la valve pour la faire reculer.Infimtive chuses introduced by file prepositiond, with a passive adjectival value are frequentlyencountered.
They bear a certain modality :f ixer  un obturateur sur la buse d'entree ducircuit d'air iLEe, LFI92~ (to be cooled)?
..
I leffet i~t_gJ2Le,13.~ (to be obtained)Les coupures de f re t tes  ne sont pas ~.Drendre en considerationFinally, the various infinitive clauses can beinter-coordinated or coordinated with different ypes ofclauses (object e* adverbial c auses).
Coordinations (apartfrom enumerations) are generally limited to two or threeclauses.Conjugated verbal clausesWe class a conjugated verbal clause as being anyclause governed by a conjugated verb.
The clausesencountered may appear either as a main (or independen0clause or a subordinate clause (object or adverbial).
Allthe common types of clauses can be found (personal,impersonal, active, passive...).
Coordinations(enumerations aside) are generally limited to two or threeclauses.
Examples of characteristic sentences :Pour les vents tres v io lents ,  i l  estprdferable de mettre l'avion sous abri.S1 le liqulde polluant s ' inf l l t re dans la zonesltu@e entre la jante de la roue et le talon,il faut imperativement d@monter le pneupour le nettoyer.Amongst the remarkable clauses, weencountered several examples of inverted subjects (whichcould pass as a stylistic turn unlikely to be found in atechnical tex0.
For example :Au cadre 19 se trouve un bo~tier etanche...Relative clausesVery few are encountered in the texts (onaverage 1 relative clause very 2 pages), most of themare introduced by the relative pronoun qta (for more than95% of the texts tudied).
Here are a few examples :II est ba~d sur la conduct ib i l i t6thermique.., et sur le mode de c i rculat ionadopt@ qul permettent un 6change... entreles deux circuits d'air qui la traverse.AC'lXS DE COLING-92.
NANTES.
23-28 AOt~q' 1992 1 2 8 6 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES.
AUG. 23-28, 1992,.. el les poss~dent chacune un anneautravers lequel passe la sangle de rappel,..Noun phrasesWe class noun phrases as being all groups witha nominal value whether or not they are introduced by aproposition.
It is likely that all the possible types ofnoun phrases exist in the corpus.
We observed withinterest that in some cases, the groups were quite oftenbarely" grmnmatically acceptable.
The principle ofjuxtaposing nouns in French is a rare phenomena.
Allthe same, juxtaposition is quite a generalised pratice inthe texts studied (this is probably the case for a lot oftechnical texts).
The following juxtapositions arenormally accepted :I'antenne I~ACANI'ensemble raccord-bouchonun syst~me de type ba~onnetteWhereas the following are less acceptablegrammatically speaking :I'ensemble de hissage avionIongueur part i e \] IsseI'axe avlonThe following complex examples inuslrate thedegree of complexity noun phrases may attain (the partof the sentence which is not the noun phrase isbracketed) :(11 proc~de) de la technique desre f ro id i sseurs  9 surfaces secondalres,appel~,s re t ro id i sseurs  a lames etintercalaires ou refroidisseurs compactsqui convlent particuli~,rement bten au gazayant un mauvais coef f ic ient  d'echangethermique.Verb nominalisation (verbiaction nounderivation) isalso frequently used :... e f fectuer  une v~r i f l cat ion  du tarage...(rather than v#rifier le forage),., proc~der ~ la d~pose des panneaux...Faire une ver i f icat ion du reglage...These structures are built using a small numberof French verbs (loire, effectuer,...), and they are usedwith all nominalisations of verbs of action.Id iomat ic  express ionsWe class idiomatic expressions as beingvariable or non-variable xpressions, which requireidentification within a text in order to ensure correcttranslation.
Idiomatic expressions exist in all thesyntactic ategories.
Nominal idiomatic expressions areprobably the most frequent, particularly in specialisedterminology (more than 80 % of the temis are nominalidiomatic expressions, in aeronaalical termiuology).Without going into further detail, it can be saidthat they are all present in the corpus.
However, only arelatively small number of verbal expressions can befound (in comparison with the potential wealth of theFrench language) and there has been no example of atransformation of these expressions (for example lesmesures qui doivent ~tre prises) in the corpus.
They aregenerally made up using a limited number of verbs(prendre, tenir, mettre...) :Malntenlr en place l'embase...Cette pression de rempllssage tlent compted'une perte de charge...... mettre  les commandes du r~gulateuroxyg~)ne sur ON.,,We must bear in mind that expressions of theeffectuer-plus-a-nominalised-verb type do not belong tothe specific idiomatic expression class, and are consideredas being a commonly accepted Wansformation.2.2.
RARE OR NONEXISTENTPHENOMENAThe following is a list of significant examplesof linguistic phenomena r rely or never encountered, it isnot an exhaustive list.Interrogative clausesNo direct nor indirect interrogatives were encounteredin any of the texts.Imperative clausesNo imperatives (imperative mood) were encounteredin the pertinent corpus, they are replaced byinfinitive clauses (such is the case for most serviceor maintenance notes in French) :proc~der au campement de I'avlonne pas tendre exag~rement les cordesAmongst he non-pertinent texts, messages for usersof a data processing system, user guides or trainingguides may contain imperatives or (sometimes)interrogatives.Direct speechNo examples of direct speech were encotmtered.Comparative phrases with a congmrative r ferenceComparative phrases containing a comparativereference were extremely rare in the corpus studied.Only one example was encountered :La b~che ~ eau est plus volumineuse que lacuve d'{)vaporation, composee d'~lement enalliage le, ger, soudes.Concessive clausesNo concessive clauses were encountered.Clausal subjectsNo examples of personal clauses with a syntacticrole of subject were encountered.
It is hence possibleto find :...11 est recommandL ~ de ne pas Inverser lapalette...but not :Inverser la palette n'est pas recommand6...Human personal pronounsACTES DE COLING-92, NANTES.
23-28 AOt~q" 1992 1 2 8 7 PROC.
OF COL1NG-92, NAN'I\]~S.
AUG. 23-28, 1992Although not totally absent, personal pronouns arerare in technical texts (one per page on average).None of the personal pronouns encountered referredto a human (in fact, humans are rarely referred to inthe texts) in the pextinent corpus.This information meant hat for the French-Englishsystem, personal pronouns would always be "it" (or"they") as it is not necessary to search for therefcmmce.Rhetorical figuresRhetorical figures are rare and correspond toestablished usages.Only one metaphor was encountered in the texts :.. les commandes chemlnent sur le cot~ drol lsous le plancher passager..The problem is solved "at dictionary level, given thata cable can cheminer (make its way).The metonyms encountered appear to be acceptedmetonyms which are transposable into the targetlanguage.
Thus, in the above example, the termcommandes which represents he cable or cableswhich propagate the controls, is literally translatedinto English, without shocking the technicians ofthe field.Anaphora re rare, and as with personal pronouns, ifencountered could be handled in a simplified way.Finally, with regard to the aspectualphenomena, in French, syntactically speaking, there isvery little aspectual indication.
English, which was ourtarget language very often uses the progressive form.
Wetherefore paid particular attention to the reconstitution ofthe progressive form.
After having carried out acomparative study of the texts, we were able to draw theconclusion that the progressive form was virtuallynonexisent in the translated texts.5 - CONCLUSIONThe corpus tudy has enabled us to draw severalconclusions.
Firstly, it has enabled the definition of atext typology which is pertinent o a considerablevolume of texts of different origins and differenttechnical fields (although this excludes in particularcomputer user guides and documents for the generalpublic).The definition of this typology has enabled usto draw up accurate linguistic specifications, implifyingand sometimes ignoring the handling of certainlinguistic phenomena.
The specifications were then usedto develop an FAT system (based on GETA's system,ARIANE), whose grammars are less complex, and henceeasier to maintain.
The quality of translation, tested on aimportant number of aeronautical texts (maintenanceguides) and on several specimens ofpertinent texts, haveproved the validity of this approach : revision timesvaried from 20 to 30 minutes per page (averagetranslation times in SITE is about 1 page per hour).The study of texts of different ypologies hasenabled as to pinpoint he limits of a minimal language,used in all types of texts, and hence the indispensablekernel of any new typology.From an economic point of view, the textstargeted by the typology described here represent aconsiderable amount of the documents o be translated.BIBL IOGRAPHY\[1\] BACHUT, D., & al., "Industrialisation d'unsyst~me de TAO fran~ais-anglais pour ladocumentation technique", G6nie Linguistique 91,Versailles, 1991.\[2\] BOITET, Ch., & al., "ARIANE-78: anintegrated environment for automated translationand human revision", COLING~82, Prague, 1982.\[3\] BorI'ET, Ch., "The French National Mr-Project:Technical organization and translation results ofCALLIOPE-AERO", IBM Conf.
on TranslqtionMechanization, Copenhagtm, 1986.\[4\] BOITET, Ch., "Current Machine Translationsystems developed with GETA's methodology andsoftware tools", ASLIB, London, 1986.\[5\] BOITET, Ch., "Current state and future outlookof the research at GETA", MT Summit, Hakone,1987.\[6\] CHANDIOUX, J., "METEO: un syst~meop6rationoel pour la traduction des bulletinsmtttorologiques destints au grand public", Meta21, 1976.\[7\] CHAPPUY, S., "Formalisation de la descriptiondes niveaux d'interprttation des languesnaturelles", Th~se 3e cycle informatique,Grenoble, 1983.\[8\] HUTCHINS,  W. J .
,  "MACHINETRANSLATION: past, present, future",Chichester, Ellis Horwood series in Computerand their applications, 1986.K1TTREDGE, R., & LEHRBERGER, J.,"Sublanguages : tudy of language in restrictedsemantic domains", Berlin, de Gruyter, 1982.VAUQUOIS, B., & CHAPPUY, S., "Staticgrammars : a formalism for the description oflinguistic models", International Conference onTheoretical nd Methodological Issues in MachineTranslation of Natural Language, ColgateUniversity, 1985.\[91\[101Atn'ES DE COLING-92.
NAh'rEs, 23-28 AOm" 1992 1 2 8 8 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992
