An Analysis of Indonesian Language forInterlingual Machine-Translation SystemHammam R. Yusuf*Computer Science DepartmentUniversityofKentucky, Lexington, KY40506yu ~U f~ms.
uky.
eduABSTRACTThis paper presents BlAS (Bahasa Indonesia Analyzer System),an analysis ystemfor lndonesian language suitable for multilin-gual machine translation system.
BIAS is developed with amotivation to contribute to on-going cooperative r search projectin machine translation between I donesia ndotherAsian coun-tries.In addition,it mayserve tofosterNLPresearchinIndonesia.It startwith an overviewofvarious methodologiesforrepresen-ta lion of linguistic knowledg e atwlplausible strategies of automaticr easoningf or lndonesian language.
We examine these methodoio-gies from the perspective of their relative advantage and theirsuitabilityforaninterlingualmochine-translation environment.BIAS is a multi-level analyzer which is developed not only toextract the syntactic and semantic structure of sentences but alsoto provide a unifying method for knowledge r asoning.
Eachphase of the analyzer isdiscussed with emphasis on Indonesianmorphology andcase-grammaticalconstructians.1.
IntroductionBahasa Indonesia (lndonesianlanguage) is anationallanguage fortile Republic of Indonesia which imites 27 cultural backgrounds.It is widely nsed bymore than 100millious speaker but unfortu-nately, does not gain much attention for its automatic processingby computers.
In 1987, aco operative r search inmachine trans -lation with Japan sparks thenatural l nguageprocessingresearchin Indonesia.
In support to the on going project of MultilingualMachine Translation Sytem for Asian Language organized byCenter for International Cooperaliou inComputerization (CICC)-Japan and other Asian cotmtries (China.Indonesia,Malaysia andThailand), we developed BIAS: an analysis prograni for Indone-sian language which output an interlingual representation.
Byincorporating interlingual n',dysis technology, we will be ableto include BIAS as part of multi-language translation system ina very effective way.Tiff s paper describes the design consideration f BIAS from theview point of linguistic theories and knowledge representationformalism, The design is based on an interlingual pproach tomachine !ranslation which accepts input sentences inone lan-guage and produces sentences in other languages \[Figure 1 \].
Inparticular BIAS is a program that akes natural language t xt msinput and produces its tmderlying interlingual representation ata certain level of details that serve as a language-independentrepresentation f rthe machine translation environment.ahasa Indonesia j /Figare 1.
BIAS and lntcrlingual Approach to MTThe approach wtfich being used here is an approximation f basiclinguistic theories such as Chomsky's Standard Theory* Supported by the Agency for the Assessmentand Application of Tectmohigy, Jakarta.
IndonesiaACTES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt3T 1992 1 2 2 8 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28.
1992\[Chomsky,651, C,xse Grmnmar \[Fillmore, 67 \] and Definite ClauseGr;unmar \[Pereira,80\].
We also incorporates theuse of appropri-ate representation f rutalism such as Frames \[Minsky,81 \] attdSemantic Network \[Quillian,68 \] for a suitable type of reasoningsystem.
It is noted that eventhough t ere are many knowledgerepresentation la guages which are theoretically sufficient todescribe any natural language, they need to be modified in theirtheory and implementation for a particular language such asBahasalndonesia.
'l te xistence ofvarions theories and knowl-edge representation techniques lead us to consider sever',dmodels of reasoning formalism.
This in turn may serve as anindicator to the expressive adequacy ofow chosen1 representalion.The rest of tiffs paper is organized as follows.
Section 2 presentsfran~ework ofBIAS front he view point of linguistic theories.
Wewill discuss in detail the language analysis method of BIAS.
\[twill be followed by a discussion on representation formalismand reasoning techniques in Section 3.
The paper ends with aconclusion.2.
Analysis MethodThere are many ways of attacking the problem of natural langu ageprocessing.
Atone end of the spectrum are analyz, ers that read theinput sentences, very closely following every twist in syntax,trying to interpret every bit of information contained in thesentence.
Inmost cases, these analyzers separate the syntacticand semantic parts of the analysis into separate consecutivestages, paying much more attention to the syntactic part at theexpense of semantic \[Gersham,82\].
At the other end are theanalyzers that skim through the text looking for certain types ofioforuaation andpaying attention only to the words and expressionrelevant to the task \[DeJong,79\].
This approach is very effectiveand intuitively corresponds to what people do wlrde skimmingnewspaper stories.
However, the danger in tttis approach lies inthe possibilty of misunderstanding wlmt is being stated.BIAS is a multi-level analyzer, similar to the first type describeabove, with the ability to perfom~ reasoning in each level ofanalysis.
The method used in BIAS is theoretically consistentwith the Standard Theory and Case Grarumar as well as non-monotonic reasoning formalism.
Theprocess tarts with analysisof sound sequences and ends by producing its interlingaalreprc~ntation.
I -depth discnssioo on each of the analysis phasein BIAS and the selection of appropriate linguistic theoriesfollows.2.1 Morphological Analysis Ph&~ePreliminary analysis of Indonesian words poses an especiallydiffic~dt problem : the transformation f word category and itsmeaning as the t'esuIt of ,'fffixation.
Although it seems better tosegment input sentences beforehand, it is not natural in the generalsense to do this process on the first basis, We h ave to combine theprocesses ofphonological nd morphological atvalysis n ord~ toextract the root word from an inflected form.The process will involve the following : an inflected word isan al yzed to give it s root word and affixes, all owing the system torecognize the altered structm'e aud meaning of rite inflected word.This phase uses the lexicon, monphological and phonologicalknowledge inthe form of transform ation rules.Further, we observed the fnllowing word formationrules whichindicate their characteristics :(at A word can be constnlcted using prefix, suffix or confix.
(b) A word can be constructed using a repetition of root word asin 'kura-kura' (turtle), or repeating the word constructed in (at asin the case of 'berlari-lari' (jogging).Our analysis howed that rite complex types of word formationcould lead to some problems while constnlctiog the structure ofthe lexicon \[Yosuf,88\].
It is evident hat iu the lexicon, a wordshould be described briefly, st) that he search can be efficient.Hence, the lexicon should contain only it simple form of wordwhich, in tlds case, is the root form.How can we deal with a word with affixation ?
In our findings,the wnrd with affixation could be processed by using thefollowing procedure.Algorithm: MorphOInput: w ordOutput : root word, affixation and semantic markerso Assume that the word is a root word.If this word is in the dictio,utry, check whether it is in its rootform or purely repetitive form.- Assume that the word is a word with some prefix.Check for the following cotulitions :- The root word is repetitive word and twt an idiomwith afftxation.For example: ~?,?1uri-lari (jogging).- 1'he word with affixation and repetitionFor exanlple: 12?~pukul-ptdculala (hitreciprocally)- A root word with afftxation or idiom with prefix.For exantple: pekerjaalt (occupation)ll?
?.tanggung-jawab (responsible for)- Idiom with sto"tx or confix.For example: 12~mnggung-jawabRa (responsibility)Table 2 summarizes the morphology rules which have beenformulated in BIAS.
These rules are basic ; other ules whichincorporate complex formation of words (,see also \[Tarigeal, 841)are being left for futher improvement, The general structure for amorphological rule of a given root word is described as follow :( \ [Af f ix \ [  + \ [Root Word  + Semant ic \ ]  )- ->  \ [Word + NewSemant lc \ ]Examples :( \[mem +\[pukul + action\] ) - ->  {memukul + active\]( \[mem-i +Ipukul + action\] ) - ->  \[memukuli + repetitive\]( \[mem-kan + Ipukul+ action\] ) - ->  \[memukulkan + causative\]( \[bet-an + \[pukul+ repetition\] - ->  \[berpukul-pukulan +reciprocalaction\]AcI .
'ES DE COL1NG-92.
NANTES, 23-28 AOUI' 1992 1 2 2 9 PROC.
OF COL1NG-92.
NAI'ZrES.
AUG. 23-28, 1992Table 2.
Indonesian Morphological ConstructionRoot form Prefix Sufix Confix Comptmd Term Semanticpukul (hit) me memukul activebawa (carry) di dibawa passivenama (name) ber bernama poasesiveperlu (need) me-kan memerlukan active tran.baca (read) di-kan dlbacakan passivepegang (touch) ter terpegang accidentalguna (use) ter-kan implicativemain (play) memper kan purposedaya (trick) terper kan occidentalTable 3.
Phonological RulesPrefix Root InflectionCeN boatgorengImrangtunggusapucukurpukulhasutbet usaharuanguangternakC = consonant of m and pN = phonological transformationThe new semantic of formed word is derived from the semanticof root word and affixes.
There are several filters being used forextraction of this semantic.
In the examples, mem-i cause theword pukul which has action as its original semantic tobecome repetitive in its meaning when combined.In addition to morphological construction asdescribed above,there are phonological rules which are handled in parallel in themorphological analysis phase, Thephonological ru esdeterminethe transformation of phonetic structure ofa root word for a givencomplex word.
We include some xamples to show its construc-tion as in Table 3.2.2 Syntactic A nalysis PhaseThis phase covers those steps that affect the processing ofsentences into structural descriptions orsyntactical tree by usinga grammatical description of linguistic structure.
The majorcomponents are syntactic knowledge (grammar rules) and lexi-con.
There are several linguistic phenonema worth describingfor Indonesian language.
For instance, the language structuremembuat(make)mellg~oreng (fried)me~gurang (s~bstract)menunggu (wait)meaxapu (sweep)mencakur (shave)pemukul (hitter)pelighasat (agitator)bet'usaha (effort)be~uang(room)be~ang (have money)beternak (lifestock)of Bahasa Indonesia has a different structure compared toEnglish and other languages.
One of the most significantdifference is that the Indonesian language apply various rulesto cozlstruct Adverb Phrase.
Adjective Phrase and RelativeClauses.For example, in constructing Adverb Phrase.
it is allowed tocombine adverb and adjective inaddition to adverb and verb.
It isalso possible to form Adjective Phrase using adjective followedby noun rather than the default order of notre and adjective.
Thisnotion reslflted from tile categorial mbiguity of some words.Examine the following phrases :rumah (N) merah (Adj) panjang (Adj) tangan (N)(house) (red) (long) (hand)cepat(Adv) merah (Adj) berjalan (V) cepat (Adv)(quickly) (red) (walk) (quickly)BIAS use a bottom-up technique IMatsumoto.83\] in the syntacticanalysis phase.
The grammar rule written in ExtrapositiooGrammar \[Pereira.81 \] is translated to a set of Horu clauses whicbACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES.
23-28 AOt3"r 1992 1 2 3 0 PROC.
Or COLING-92, NANTES, Al;o.
23-28, 1992will parse a sentence according to tile original grammar inbottom up and depth first manner.2.3 Semantic Interpretation Phase'Ihis phasewill consistof themapping ofthe structural (syntactic)description of the sentence into an interlingual representationlanguage.
The goal of this phase is to construct a clear epresen-tation of tile exact meaning of a given selulence; hence, it is alan~ua~e-indeoendent rel)resentation suitable fur a generationprocess uf target languages.
In order to achieve this, we needcommonsense knowledge, inaddition to semantic knowledge.In Ballasa Indonesia tile verbal elements of tile sentence are tilemajor source of the structure: tile main verb in the proposition isthe focus around which the other phrase, or cas~,revolve and fileauxiliary verb contain much of the information about modality.Hence, the Case grlu'nmar is tile appropriate selectioa tor thesemantic analysis part.Case frame are the mech~mism for identifying the specific asesallowed for any particular verb.
The case frante fur each verbindicates the relationships which are required in any sentence inwhich the verb ,appears and those relationship which are optional.Let us look at some popular example sentences :Palu itu memukul paku itu.
(the hammer) (hit) (the nail)Pakuitu dipukul oleh paluitu.
(the nail) (was hit) (by) (the hanuner)Sese.rang memukul pakuitu dengan paluit..(someone) (hit) (tile nail) (with) (the hatmner)The verb, memukul(hit), ,allows three primary cases: agentive,instnmlental ,and objective.
We have all three cases in the lastsentence, but only two in the others.
In fact, only one case isrequired with tiffs verb,Paku itu dipukul.
(tile nail) (was hit)Thus the case franle for the verb memukul, by default :I memukul \[O (A) (1)\] 1Further, some other case frames are also determine fnr wordswhich combine pukul and other affixatioo, aa in the case ofme nmkulkan, memukuli, memukul-mukulkan , etc.In addition to the standard cases described by Fillmore andSimmons \[Simruun,73\], we incorporate s veral oilier cases foundin Indonesian language.
These cases occur as the result of wordinflection.
Fur instance theconfix meN-kan, with the root wnrdbeli ereate a wurd, membelikan , which carry themeaningof"being beneficiary of the action".
Someexamptes of these case-stw.cific clul be found in the following sentences :1.
Benefaetive: Saya IItgmb_elit;,a~adik boneka ( I buy a doll forsister)2.
Incidental : Adi l?.
?Rglga~ di tangga ( I felt on the stair)3.
Cansative: Saya mempertanyakan masalah itu.
( I questionedthat problem)4.
Intentional : Saya OZgltZlZ?I?~.~ dia.
( I tricked him)The interligualrepresentalion for (1)isgiven in Figure 5.Notethat each word is represmned by a concept and its attrthutes.3.
Representation and InferenceWe have colue to a point o d \[sctiss variuHs ty~s of representationlanguage being used to represent the theories in each phase of tileanalysis.In tile morphological ~malysis phase, itis appropriate orepresenttile morphology and phonological rules with definite clauseswlfichhave first order logic as its basis.
First order logic providesaclearlanguagetorepresentpropositionsor facts f rthelexiconand also supports production-like rules for tile transformationf \[+activu\]~Figure4.
Example of Interlingual representationAca't::s El': COLING-92.
N^NTES.
23k28 AOt'n" 1992 1 2 3 1 PJtoc.
ov COLING-92, NAN'rES, AUG. 23-28, 1992Table 5.
Level of Analysis, Representations and Inferences in BIASAnalysis Phase Theory Representation InferencePhonologyMorphologySyntacticSemanticStandard TheoryStandard TheoryExtended StandardTheoryCase GrammarDefinite Clause /First order logicDefinite Clause /First order logicDefinite ClauseSemantic Networkwith Slot FillerDeduction/InductionDeduction/InductionDeductionDefaultDefaultrules.
The syntactic part adapts file Extended Standard theoryand hence, it is favorable to use first order logic to representits knowledge.
The u~ of Case Grammar in semantic analysisphase leads us to choose the network-based formalism as therepresentation.
Sinunons and Hendrix \[Simmons,73 \] haveprovided a clear language for semantic network based on theCase Grammar.
However, we also incorporate 'slot fillers'from the frames ystem \[Minsky,81\] as a solution to handleincomplete sentences.As the consequences of the selection ofthe representation methodfor the linguistic knowledge of Bahasa Indonesia, BIAS havemultiple inference methods incorporate in each level of analysis.In syntactic and semantic analysis phase, defanlt reasoning isperformed to solve the problem of incomplete knowledge.
Inthiscase, first order logic must be augmented with defanlt operatorsin order to penuit non-monotouicity.
\[Reiter,78\]Because of space limitation, we leave out in.depth discussion oninference techniques ( ee\[Yusuf,91\] \[Schubert ,79\]), and presentour summary of work in Table 5.4.
Conc lus ionThe use of linguistic theories and appropriate knowledge r pre-sentation techniques provide BIAS anew insight in attacking theproblem of language analysis for interlingua machine translationsystem, especially for Bahasa Indonesia.
Many representationformalism and reasoning system have been brought into consid-eration ot only for a 'pure' sentence analysis but in order to designan effective and efficient intelligent system capable of capturingand reasoning with linguistic knowledge.ReferenceBrachman, Ronald J., On epistemological status of SemanticNetwork, in Associative Networks : Representation and Use ofKnowledge by Computer, Academic Press, New York, 1979.Chomsky, Noam, Aspects of the Tneory of Syntax, MIT Press,Cambridge, 1965.DeJong,G.F., Skimming stories in real time :An experiment illintegrated understanding (Computer Science Report No.150),Yale University, New Haven, May 1979.Fillmore, Charles, The Case for Case, Universals in LinguisticTheory, Ed Emmon Bach and R.T. Harms, Holt,Rinehart,Winston, New York, 1-88, 1967.Gersham, A.V., A Framework for Conceptual Analyzer inStrategies for Natural Language Processing, LawrenceErlbaum, 1982.Lockman, Abe and Klappboz, David, The Control of Inferencingin NLU, Computational Linguistic, ed.
Cercone, Nick., PergamonPress, Oxford, 1983.Matsumoto, Y. et.
al., BUP: A Bottom Up Parser Embedded inProlog, New Generation Computing Vol.
1 No.2, pp.
145 -158,1983.Minsky, M., A Framework for Representing IOlowledge, MindDesign, pp.95 - 128, MIT Press, 1981.Pereira, F and Warren, D., Defiuite CIause Grammars for Lan-guage Analysis-- A Survey ofthe Formalism and aComparisonwith Augmented Transition Networks, Journal of Artificial Intel-ligence 13 (1980)pp.231-278.Pereira, F., Extraposition Granmlars, American Journal of Corn -putationalLinguisticsVol.7No.4 (1981)pp.243-256Quillian, M.R., Semantic Memory, Semautic Infornmtion Pro-cessing, Ed.
Marvin Minsky, MIT Press, Cambridge, 1968.Reiter, R., On Reasoning by Default, Proc.
TINLAP-2, Theoreti-cal Issues in Natural Language Processing-2, University of111inois at Urbana-Champaign, 210-278,1978.Selmbert,Letdmrt K, Randolph G.Goebel attd Nicholas J.Cercone,"The Structure and Organization of a Semantic Network forCorn prehension and Inference", Associative Networks, 121 -175.Academic Press, 1979.Simmons, Robert F.,Semantic Network: Their Computation andUse for Understanding English Sentences, Computer Models o fThought and Language, W.H.Freeman Co., SanFrancisco, 1973.Tarigan,S., Morfologi Bahasa Indonesia, Penerbit Gramedia,Jakarta- Indonesia, 1984.Yusuf, Hammam, Indonesian Elec~onic Dictionary, TechnicalReport, Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technol-ogy, Jakarta, 1988.Yusuf, Hammam, Analyzer for Ballasa Indonesia, MasterThesis, University of Kentucky, 1991.ACRES DE COLING-92.
NANTES.
23-28 AO~r 1992 1 2 3 2 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES.
AUG. 23-28.
1992
