SEMANTIC AND PRAGMATIC INTERPRETATION OFJAPANESE SENTENCES WITH DAKE (ONLY)NAOIIIKO NOGUCIII* YASUNARI tlARADAtCSLIVentura IIa|l, Stan?~rd UniversityStanford, CA 94305-4115, U.S.A.1 In t roduct ionSeparating semantics and pragmaties i important fortile design of natural language systems, a.s well as forlinguistic purposes, because the former is inherentlydependent on particular lexical items involved or theoverall organization of the particular language in ques-tion, titus comprising a language-dependent part of theinterprctiw~ system, whereas the latter is essentiallyrelated to a more general and presumably language-independent reasoning processes of the human or otheragents involved in dialogues.Previous linguistic study on the semantics ofJapanese functional words such as dake did not payenough attention to carefully distinguishing the prag-matic factors involved from the (lexical) semantic on-tents of those words.
In order to build efficient natnrallanguage systems, however, we believe that not only dowe have to account for the semantics of eacb and everylexical items under consideration, but we need to havea general account of certain pragmatic aspects of theinterpretations we obtain.One typical case of this kind of pragmatic inferencesmanifests itself in interpretations of Japanese sentenceswith dake , which roughly corresponds to the Englishword only.
We believe that the kind of analysis we pro-pose here is a prototypical example of what is necessaryfor successful natural anguage interpretation.2 Dif ferences in In terpretat ionof  Dake-sentencesIt has been observed that there is a certain difference inmeaning between the Japanese sentences shown in (1,a)and (1,b), according to the relative positioning of thetwo particles, dake (only) and de (by).
(We will call thefirst type of sentences de-dake-sentences and tile secondtype dake-de-sentences for short.
We will also call themin general, dake-sentences.
)(1) a. de-dake-sentence:*also at Matsushita Electric Industrial, Co., Ltd.lalso at Wa~eda UniversitySoko-ni-wa zitensya de dake ik-eru.tbere-LOC-TOP bike INST only go-can((1) can get there only by bike.)b.
dake-de-sentenee:Soko-ni-wa zitensya dake de ik-eru.there-LOt-TOP bike only INST go-can((I) can get there by bike alone.
)According to Morita\[8\], (1,a) means that "bike is theonly means by which I can get there," i.e.
"1 can't getthere by any means other than bike?'
He called this tile'absolute restriction' meaning.
On the other hand, (1,b)roughly means that "I can get there by bike alone,"i.e.
"the minimally necessary means which enables meto get there is by bike."
This be called tlLe 'minimalrestriction' meaning.
In this case, we have a reading illwhich "I call get there by any other means easier thanbike.
"We can see that there is a similar difference in avail-able readings for the corresponding English sentences,which are shown in (2).
While (2,a) has the 'absoluterestriction' meaning, (2,b) has the 'minimal restriction'meaning, in Morita's terminology.
(2) a.
1 can get there only with a bike.b.
I can get there with only a bike.It might be suggested that the difference in the mean-ings of these sentences are due to the relative position-ing of dake and de, in the case of Japanese, and that ofonly and with, in the case of English, which somehowcauses the difference in the semantic scopes of dake oronly.
But when we look at other examples like (3), inwhich dake interact with particles other than de, it be-comes obvious that the real phenomenon is a bit morecomplicated.
(3) a. Sono-koto-wa haha ni (lake i-eru.that-thing-Tof mother DAT only tell-can((1) ca,, tell it only to iny mother.)b.
Sono-koto-wa haha dake ni i-eru.that-thing-Top mother only DAT tell-can((I) can tell it to only my mother.
)In (3), we see that ni can either precede or followdake, as in the ease of de.
floweret, the difference illACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Aour 1992 2 1 9 I'ROC.
OF COL1NG-92.
NANTES, Ax3U.
23-28, 1992meaning between the two sentences in (3) is not at allclear.
This is also true of the English equivalents givenabove.
Both sentences mean that "I can't tell it to anyperson other than my mother.
"These sentences seem to suggest hat there is some-thing common to Japanese and English, an interpretiveprocedure for sentences involving dake and only, whicheffects in some difference in meaning in the case of pairsof sentences in (1) or in (2), but does not in the case ofpairs of sentences in (3).In this paper, we will focus on these sentences andformulate the interpretive procedure which would ex-plain the differences in these interpretations.3 Prev ious  Accounts  forJapaneseThe difference in interpretation between de-dake-sentences and dake-de-sentenees has attracted atten-tions of Japanese linguists.
We will summarize hereMorita's\[8\] observations and Kuno's\[5\] generalizations.Morita\[8\] was the first to observe this difference andcharacterized these sentences as follows.Mor l ta ' s  observat ions :(4) a. De-dake means 'absolute (exclusive) restric-tion'.b.
Dake-de means 'minimal restriction'.c.
The alternation between dake and particlesother than de doesn't ca use this kind of dif-ference.
Each ordering means 'absolute restric-tion'.Kuno\[5\] generalized Morita's observations to the or-dering of particles in general and ascribed the differencein meaning of de-dake-sentences and dake-de-sentencesto the semantic ontents of these particles and the orderthey appear in the sentence.
His generalizations can besummarized as in (5).Kuno 's  genera l i za t ions :(5) a.
The ordering of particles (particle + quantifier-like particle), such as de-dake, ni-dake, to-dake,de-nomi, de-bakari, etc.
means 'absolute (ex-clusive) restriction'.b.
The ordering of particles (quantifier-like parti-cle + particl e) such as dake-de, dake-ni, dake-to, norai-de, bakarl-de, etc.
means 'minimal re-striction'.c.
The alternation between dake and particlesother than de does cause the difference in mean-ing, but in some cases, the ordering (quantifier-like particle q- particle) have 'absolute restric-tion' meaning as a secondary meaning.From now on, we will call the ordering of particles(particle + dake), as in de-dake, p(article)-dake, theordering (dake + particle), dake-p(article).
And wewill also call sentences with these orderings p.dake-sentences and dake-p-sentenees, respectively.One common feature of these two accounts is thatthey are trying to capture the difference between thetwo types of sentences in the semantic ontents of par-ticular orderings of particles.
On that basis, Moritaclaims that the semantic ontents of de-dake and dake-de are different while relative order of dake and particlesother than de does not affect the semantic ontents ofthese sentences.
Kuno, on the other hand, claims thatthe semantic ontents of p-dake and dake-p are alwaysdifferent, and dake-p has one additional reading in somecases, in which it is equivalent to that ofp-dake.However, sentences like (6) is a straight-forwardcounterexample to their claims.
Here, a dake-de sen-tence does not have the 'minimal restriction' meaning,although what Kuno meant exactly by 'the minimal re-striction meaning' is somewhat unclear.
(6) Soko-ni-wa zitensya dake de i-tta.there-LOt-TOP bike only INST go-PAST((I) got there by bike alone.
)It is clear that the difference in meaning between p-dake-sentences and dake-p-sentences is a difference inthe interpretations of the whole of these sentences, nota difference in the semantic ontents of the particularpart of the sentences.In what follows, we will take another careful ook atthe details of the so-called 'minimal restriction' mean-ing of dake-p-sentences and try to figure out what kindof interpretive procedure is involved in causing thesedifferences.4 Another  Look  at the  Di f fer-ences  in Interpretation4.1  The  'M in imal  Rest r i c t ion '  Mean ingas  a Compos i teIf we look at the original dake-de-sentenee (1,b) care-fully, the intuitive interpretation we obtain is somethinglike "bike provides a sufficient means for getting there,and any other means is not necessary."
Moreover wefeel that "I can get there by any other means easier (insome sense) than bike.
"Thus, what Kuno and Morita called 'minimal restric-tion' meaning can be reformulated in terms of the fol-lowing two statements in (7).
'M in imal  res t r i c t ion '  mean ing :(7) a.
Anything other than X is not necessary.
('ne-cessity' part)b.
Anything "bigger" or "more costly" than X willsuffice.
('scalar' part)In the case of p-dake sentences, we see that the 'ab-solute restriction' meaning is a part of its semantic on-tent.
For instance, in (8), we cannot utter (8,b) afteruttering (8,a).
(8,b) is incompatible with the 'absoluterestriction' meaning of (8,a).
This shows that the 'ab-solute restriction' meaning of p-dake-sentences is notAc /~ DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Ao'\]r 1992 2 2 0 PROC, OF COLING-92, Nhgrl~s, AUG. 23-28, 1992defensible, so it is a part of semantic ontents of de-dake-scntenees.
(8) a. Soko-ni-wa zitensya de dake ik-eru.there-LOC~TOP bike INST only go-can((f) can  get there only by bike.)b.
?
?Zidoosya de rno ik-eru.car INST tOO go-can((I) can get (there) by car, too.
)But how about the 'minimal restriction' meaning ofdake-p-sentenees?
A similar test can be applied.
In thefollowing examples, uttering (10,b) after uttering (9) isweird, whereas uttering (10,a) or (10,c) after (9) is notstrange at all.
(9) Sokoni-wa zitensya duke de ik-eru.there-LOC-ToPbike only INST go-can((I) can get there by bike alone.
)(10) a. Zidoosya de mo ik-eru.car INST too go-can((I) can get (there) by .
.
.
.
too.)b.
?
?Zidoosya mo hituyoc~da.car too necessary-is(A car is necessary, too.)c.
Zidoosya de wa ik-c-nai.car  INST  TOP go-can-not((I) can't get (there) by car,)This shows that the 'necessity' part of the 'minimalrestriction' meaning of dake-p~sentenees is not defensi-ble, and is an inherent part of the semantic ontent,whereas the 'scalar part' is defeasihle, a kind of conver-sational implicature.Given these observations, we propose tile follow-ing hypotheses in order to explain the differences ininterpretation betwecn p-dake-sentenees and dake-p-sentences.Hypotheses:(A) While p-dake-sentences always have the 'absoluterestriction' meaning as a part of their semanticcontents, dake-p-sentences do not bave it in somecases.
(These two types of sentences have a differ-ence in their semantics in this respect.
)(B) Dake-p sentences have the meaning that anythingother than the thing in question is not necessary('necessity' part of the 'minimal restriction' mean-ing), as a part of their semantic ontents, depend-ing on their contexts.
(C) We can get the 'scalar' part of the 'minimal re-striction' meaning from dake-p~sentences in somccontexts.
(D) This meaning of duke-p-sentences an be seenms a kind of eonvcrsational implicature obtainedthrough some pragmatic inference of the hearer.
(A) and (B) above are concerned with the semantics,while (C) and (D) are concerned with the pragmatics.In tile remainder of this paper, we will concentrate onJapanese xamples, but we believe that a similar if notidentical, processes are involved in the interpretation fEnglish counterparts.4 .2  Fur ther  Observat ionsGiven the hypotheses (A)-iD) that explains the dif-ferences in available readings between p-duke-sentencesand duke-p-sentences, the following questions have tobe raiscd.
* With regard to (A) and (B), what are the contextswhere duke-p-sentences do not have 'absolute re-striction' meaning, and in what contexts do theyhave the 'necessity' part as their semantic ontents,and how?
* With regard to (C) and (D), in what contexts dodake-p-sentences g tthe 'scalar' part, and how?In (6) we saw an example where dake-p-sentences donot have the 'minimal restriction' meaning.
In otherwords, (6) have neither the 'necessity' part nor the'scalar' part.
flere are some other examples.
(11) a. Sokoni-wa zitensya de dukethere-Toy bike INST onlyi-tta-koto-ga-aru.go-PAST-that-NO M-exlst((I) have been there only by bike.)b.
$okoni-wa zitenaya duke dethere-TOP bike only INSTi-tta-koto~ga~aru.go-PhST-that-NoM-exist((I) have been there by bike alone.
)( l l ,a)  means that "I haven't been there by any meansother than bike," that is, it has the 'absolute restriction'meaning, and i l l ,b )  clearly does not have the 'absoluterestriction' meaning.
Although this difference in meaming between these two sentences is clear, i l l ,b )  doesnot have the 'minimal restriction' meaning.
That is,this sentence have neither the 'necessity part' nor the'scalar part' of the 'minimal restriction' meaning.But there are other examples in which we can getthe 'necessity part' and 'scalar part' of the 'minimalrestriction' meaning, as in (12).
(12) a. Kotosi-no kaze-wa tyuusya dc dakethis-year-of cold-ToP injection INST onlynaOrL I ,can-be-cured(This year's cold can be cured only byinjection.)b.
Kotosi-no kaze-wa tyuusya dake dethis-year-of cold-ToP injection only INSTnaorn .AcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Aot)r 1992 2 2 1 PROC.
oF COL1NG-92, NAMES, AU~.
23-28, 1992can-be-cured(This year's cold can be cured by injectionalone.
)Even among sentences involving dake and de, thereare differences in available interpretations.
The onlydifference among these sentences lies in the properties oftheir predicates.
We see that the 'minimal restriction'meaning for dake-p-sentences is obtained only when thepredicates involved express ome "possibility," such asik-eru (can go) or naoru (can be cured).Taking into account examples that involve dake alongwith particles other than de, we notice that things getfurther complicated.
We have already seen in (3) thatin sentences involving dake and ni, we can get neitherthe 'necessity' part nor the 'scalar' part of the 'minimalrestriction' meaning for a dake-ni-sentence, even whenwe use a "possible" predicate.
When we do not use a"possible" predicate, we can't get the 'minimal restric-tion' meaning for dake-ni-sentences ither, as shown in(13).
(13) a. Kazoku ni dake siraseru.family DAT only inform((1) will inform (it) only to my family.)b.
Kazoku dake ni siraseru.family only DAT inform((I) will inform (it) to only my family.
)From these observations, we have at least partial an-swers to the two questions we raised at the beginningof this section.
As for the first question, we can saythat when dake-p-sentenees involve certain predicateslike 'ikeru', 'itta-koto-ga-aru', the 'absolute restriction'meaning tends to disappear.
Moreover, when they in-volve de and "possible" predicates, they have the 'ne-cessity' part as their semantic ontents.
For the secondquestion, we would say that when dake-p-sentences in-volve de and "possible" predicates, they also have the'scalar' part as their conversational implicature.
Whenthey involve de but not "possible" predicates, they nei-ther have the 'necessity' part nor the 'scalar' part ofthe 'minimal restriction' meaning.These answers uggest that each part of the 'minimalrestriction' meaning is tightly related, and, the particlede and "possible" predicates both play crucial roles inthis phenomenon.5 The  In terpret ive  P rocedurefo r  Dake-sentences5.1 De and "Poss ib le"  ContextIn the previous section, we observed that de-phrasesand "possible" predicates are crucial to the differ-ence in meaning between p-dake-sentences and dake-p-sentences.
Then what is going on when de-phrasesand "possible" predicates interact with each other?In order to see this, first consider what happens whenwe omit dake from (1) as shown in (14).
(14) Sokoni-wa zitensya de ik-eru.there-TOP bike INST go-can((I) can get (there) by bike.
)Intuitively, this sentence can be paraphrased as (15),without any difference in its interpretation.
(15) Sokoni-wa zitensya-o tukae-bathere-TOP bike-Ace use-ifiku-koto-ga-dekiru.go-that-NOM-can(If (I) use a bike, (I) can get there.
)We can get this conditional interpretation only whenthe sentence has a "possible" predicate as well as ade-phrase.
As sentences in (16) and (17) show, thiskind of interpretation for sentences with a de-phrase isunavailable when we do not have a "possible" predicate.
(16) Zitensya de iki-tai.bike INST go-want((i) want to go (there) by bike.
)(17) Zitensya de iku-bekida.bike INST go-should((You) should go (there) by bike.
)Similarly, if there is no de-phrase, we do not get theconditional interpretation even when we have a "possi-ble" predicate, as the following examples demonstrate.
(18) Zitensya o ka-eru.bike Ace buy-can((I) can buy a bike.
)(19) Tookyo kara okur-eru.Tokyo from send-can((I) can send (it) from Tokyo.
)(20) Taroo ni a-eru.Taroo DAT nleet-ean((I) can meet with Taroo.
)When de-phrases and "possible" predicates interact,the conditional interpretation becomes available.
Note,incidentally, that in English too, similar observationscan be made.
Consider the English equivalent to (14),shown in (21).
This sentence can be interpreted as syn-onymous with a conditional sentence in (22).
(21) I can get there with a bike.
(22) If I use a bike, I can get there.Stump\[10\] discusses this kind of interaction between"possible" predicates and free adjuncts.
His main con-cern is how free adjuncts behave in modal contexts, andthe typical examples he considers are shown in (23) arid(24).
(23) a.
Wearing that new outfit, Bill would fool every-one.b.
If he wore that new outfit, Bill would fool ev-eryone.
(24) a.
Standing on a chair, John can touch the ceiling.ACTES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 aOt~T 1992 2 2 2 PROC.
oF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992b.
If he stands on a chair, John can touch theceiling.According to his observati .
.
.
.
.
(23,a) and (24,a) areinterpreted as their corresl/onding conditional sentencesin (23,b) and (24,b).
Ills proposal is that this kindof conditional interpretation for free adjuncts becomesavailable within semantics of modals.
Free adjm,ctswould be assingcd the same semantic type as condi-tional clauses, and so the conditional interpretation de-rives entirely from the semantic rules necessary for theinterpretation of modals.lie uses Kratzer's\[3\] formalization for the semanticrules for modals; the semantic ontents of (23) and (24)are expressed as follows.
(25) would'(D(cb)(  ^ Bill_w .
.
.
.
.
tbat_new_outtlt'))(~ BillA'ools _ever yo no' )(26) can'(D(ch)(" John-stands_on_a_chair'))(" John_touches_the_ceiling')Kratzer uses a possible world semantics, and a sim-ple way to read these formulae is to understaud that Dis some function which maps the conversational hack-ground, cb, and the antecedent proposition to somepossible worlds nearest o the current world, and tbatwould' and can ~ are truth-functionally relating theseworlds to the worlds where the consequent propositionholds.
Since our main concern here is tire interactionof the conditional irrterpretation arid dake in p-dake-sentences and asks-p-sentences, we will not go into thedetails of her analysis.
It would suffice for us to expressthe relevant semantic ontents in the following way.
(Ineach case, ~woula, and ~can express the modalizedcorrditional operator in Kratzer's sense whicb implic.-itly incorporates the conversational background, cb.
)(27) (Bill wears that new outfit)---~o,~d (Bill fools everyone)(28) (John stands on a chair)~ ,  (John touches the ceiling)Since with-pirrases in English behave semantically asfree adjuncts, we can get the conditional interprets..tion for tim English sentence (21) from the semanticsof "possible" predicates.
The semantic ontent can beexpressed ms in (29).
(29) (1 use a bike) --%~, (I get there)Assuming that de-phrases in Japanese behave semamtically like free adjuncts in English, we can get the con-ditional interpretation for (14) fully from the semanticsof "possible" predicates in a similar way.
The semanticcontent would roughly be the same as (29).5.2 In teract ion  of  dake, de, and "Possi -ble" ContextsNow we have come to a place where we can resolvetire problems about the difference in meaning betweenp-dake-sentences and dake-p-sentences.
But to do so,first we have to take a further look into the nature ofdake.5.2.1 Only as a \]~bcusing OperatorThere has been a fair amount of work on the semanticsof only.
Tim basic semantic ontent of Japanese dake ispresumably ahnost he same as English only.Only is said to be a focusing operator\[I l l .
This isbecause the truth condition of tire sentences with onlydepends on so-called focus, as shown in (30).
(Focuselements are written in capital etters.
)(30) a, John only introduced BILl, to Sue= John introduced only Bill to Sueh.
John only introduced Bill to SUE= John i:rtroduced Bill to only SueEach of these sentences can be paraphrased as thesentences below them, which succinctly show the dif-ference in their truth conditions.The traditional treatment for this fact is provided byformulating the semantic ontents of only as a binaryfunction which maps its focus element and scope ele-ment to something of the appropriate type.
The logicMform of these sentences can be written in the followingway.
(31) a. only(Bil l)(Ax\[John introduced x to Sue\])b .
.
.
.
ly(Sne)(Ax\[Jotm introduced Bill to x\])In these formulae, the first argument is the focas ofonly, and tim second argmnent is its scope.
When yousupply the appropriate lntensional Logic translation tothis function only, the equivalent Intensional Logic ex-pressions for them results, as shown in (32).
(32) a. Vx\ [ in t roduced ' ( j ' ,  ~, s') -~ x = b'\]b. Vx\[ introduced'( j ' ,  b', x) ~ x = s'\]There are problems with this kind of naive approach.See Rooth\[9\] arid yon Stechow\[ll\] for some criticismsand possible extensions.
Ilere, however, we will simplyassume that dake imnmdiately follows its focus element.5.2.2 l low Do They  In teract  in Semant ics?How much of the difference in meaning between p-dake-sentences and dflke-/~sentences can we account for inthe semantics?
From the discussions we gave in tim lastsection, we can obtain the conditional interpretation astheir semantic ontents.A similar paraphrase for (1) will work.
tlere again,we can paraphrase the sentences into sonmthing like(33) without causing any dilference in interpretation.
(33) a. Soko-ni-wa zitensya-o tukatte daketbere-Loc-Toe bike-ace using onlyiku-koto-ga-dckiru.go-that-NOM-can(Only if (I) use a bike, (1) can get there.)b.
Soko-ni-wa zitensya dake o tukattettlere-LOC-TOP bike only ACC usingiku-koto-ga-dekiru.go-that-NOM-can(If (I) use only a bike, (1) can get there.
)AtTIT~S DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Ao0r 1992 2 2 3 Pe, oc.
or COL1NG-92, NANTES, AUO.
23-28, 1992One possible way we can think of (33,a) is that duketakes entire de phrase as its focus and takes the wholesentence as its scope.
Then its logical form can be ex-pressed as in (34).
(34) only((I use a bike))(2P(P --*can (I get the re)))This can be translated into (35).(35).
VP\[\[P "-*ca, (I get there)\] ~ P = (I use a bike)\]In (34), duke takes its scope over the whole modal-ized conditional interpretation, restricting antecedentcondition for enabling me to get there only to "using abike."
This expresses the 'absolute restriction' meaningcorrectly.
Since there is no such condition other thanusing a bike which enables me to get there, / can ' t  getthere without a bike.As for (33,b), its focus is clearly the NP ziiensya andits scope is the whole antecedent sentence.
Thus weobtain (36), and its translation (37).
(36) only((a bike))()~z(I use x)) "-+con (I g et there)(37) (I use a bike)AVy\[(I use y)---* y = bike\]"-'%an (I get there)This time, dake takes scope over the de-phrase, whosesemantic content is roughly "using a bike", and ex-cludes any other means of transportation.
The seman-tic contents of the whole sentence would be somethinglike, "if I use a bike and do not use any other means,I can get there."
In other words, "it is sufficient forgetting there that I use a bike and do not use any othermeans."
This means that "it is not necessary for gettingthere that I use any means other than bike", which isexactly the 'necessity part '  of the 'minimal restriction'meaning.In this way, 'how' part of the first question we raisedin 4.2 is solved.
Although (B) is stating an assump-tion for duke-p-sentences in general, there is only onecase where dake-l~sentences have the 'necessity' partof the 'minimal restriction' meaning, that is the casewhere such sentences have de-phrases and "possible"predicates.
In such cases, these sentences can get con-ditional interpretations due to those two independentfacts.?
De-phrases act like free adjuncts in English.?
Free adjuncts in "possible" context can receive con-ditional interpretations by the semantic nature of"possible" predicates.5.3 Conversational Implicature of Duke-sentencesThe remaining question is 'how' part  of the second ques-tion in 4.2.
We can restate the question as follows:* How can the 'scalar' part of the 'minimal restric-tion' meaning be derived conversationally?For this question, we observed in 4.2 that the 'scalar'part can be obtained when de-phrases and "possible"predicates interact.
We saw in 5.1 that when de-phrasesand "possible" predicates interact, we can get condi-tional interpretations.
These facts suggest that the con-ditional interpretations of duke.de-sentences are some-how related to the 'scalar' implicature.
Let us considerthe original duke-de-sentence, again shown here.
(1) b. Soko-ni-wa zitensya duke de ik-eru.there-Loc-TOP bike only INST ~.
go-can((I) can get there by bike alone.
)To get the 'scalar' implicature, we have to have somecontextually salient scale.
Often, certain specific lin-guistic expressions, uch as (some, all), (bad, good), ornumerals provides such scales, and 'generalized scalarimplicature' is derived\[6\].
But in the particular case weare considering, the 'scalar' implicature is clearly con-textually dependent, i.e., the scale have to be suppliedby the context.Basically, almost all utterances can have the 'scalar'implicature when they are placed in appropriate con-texts.
But how easily we can think of the appropri-ate scale varies.
For (1,b) and its conditional interpre-tation, we can think of such scale rather easily, i.e.,the scale in relative easiness of various means for get-ting there.
For example, bike is easier than walking,car is easier than bike, and airplane is easier than car,etc.
But you call think of a context where this easi-ness changes the direction, i.e.
bike is easier than car,and car is easier than airplane, etc.
So the scale it-self is totally context dependent.
The important pointis that this scale of easiness can be set based on theconditional interpretation of (1,b).
We have an infer-ence pattern according to its conditional interpretationshown in (38).
(I use a bike) "--*e~n (I get there)(38) (I use a car) .
.
.
.
(I get there)(I use an airplane) --~ean (I get there)This means that the inference pattern of this kindcan be made salient by the conditional interpretationof (1,b).
That 's  why the 'scalar' part of the 'mini-mal restriction' meaning comes with its 'necessity' part.These parts are independently derived from its condi-tional interpretation.
The former is obtained semanti-cally, the latter pragmatically.5.4 The Interpretive Procedure: TheWhole PictureThe preceding sections have given an overall picture ofthe procedure for the interpretations of sentences in-volving duke.
We believe that our account is more ef-fective and exhaustive than previous ones.First, for p-duke-sentences, we get the 'absolute re-striction' meaning in their semantics, taking the scopeof duke over the whole sentence.
For de-duke-sentencesin particular, we get the 'absolute restriction' meaningof modalized conditional swhen they have "possible"predicates.Second, for duke-p-sentences, we get the differentsemantic contents from their corresponding p-duke-sentences when certain predicates are involved, due toAcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Aotrr 1992 2 2 4 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992the fact that dake takes scopes over their postpositionalphrases.
Then for dake-de-sentences with "possible"predicates, we get the conditional interpretation andthe 'necessity' part of the 'minimal restriction' mean-ing in their semantics, in addition, the 'scalar' impli-cature can be obtained based on a context-dependentscale which is set by their conditional interpretations.6 Concluding RemarksOur nlain concern in this paper is the difference inintcrpretatlons between p-dake-sentences and dake-p-sentences, and its distribution with regard to particleswith which dake interacts and properties of predicatesinvolved.
We started by reviewing some of the previousaccounts of this phenomenon and pointed out their dif-ficulties, summarizing our basic hypotheses which coverthe semantics and thc pragmatics for these sentences.By taking a closer look at related examples, we demon-strated that both de-phrases and "possible" predicatesplay crucial roles for the difference in available inter-pretations, uggesting interaction of semantic and prag-matic processes that would explain this difference.
Fi-nally, we have presented a general picture of how ourinterpretive procedure works for these sentences.While most of our observations were restricted toJapanese sentences with dake, our approach can nat-urally be extended to the corresponding English sen-tences with only.
We presume that tile interpretiveprocedure we proposed in this paper is a universal one.AcknowledgementsMichio isoda brought our attention to tile interaction ofdake and de in Japanese.
We would like to thank PeterSells, Mark Gawron, and Chris Pinon for helpful com-ments.
Special thanks are due to CSLI for providing anideal environment for research and giving us opportuni-ties to engage in stimulating and insightful discussionswith researchers from various backgrounds.References\[1\] Grice, P.H.
: 1975.
Logic and Conversation.
In P.Cole and J.L.
Morgan (eds.
), Syntax and Seman.lics, Vol.3: Speech Acts.
Academic Press, 41-58.\[2\] Karttunen, L., and Peters, S.: 1979.
Conventionallmplicature.
In C-K. Otl and D. Dinneen (eds.
),Syntaz and Semantics, Vol.11.
Academic Press,New York, 1-56.\[3\] Kratzer, A.: 1979.
Conditional Necessity and Pos-sibility.
In R. Bauerle et al (eds.
), Semantics fromDifferent Point of View.
Springer-Verlag, 117-147.\[4\] Kratzer, A.: 1981.
Blurred Conditionals.
In W.Klein and W. Levelt (eds.
), Crossing the Bound-aries in Linguistics.
Keidel, Dordrecht, 201-209.\[5\] Kuno, S.: 1983.
Shin Nihon Bunpoo Kenkyuu.Taishuukan-shoten.\[0\] Levinson, S.C.: 1983. t'ragmatics.
Cambridge Uni-versity Press.\[7\] Lewis, l).
: 1973.
Counterfactuals.
Harvard Univer-sity Press.\[8\] Morita, Y.: 1971.
Dake, Bakari no Yoohoo.
InBulletin of The Institute of Language Teaching,Vol.10.
Waeeda University.
1-27.\[9\] Rooth, M.E.
: 1985.
Associalion with Focus.
PhD.Dissertation, UMass.\[10\] Stump, G.: 1985.
The Semantic Variability of Ab.solute Constructions.
Reidel, Dordrecht.\[11\] yon Steehow, A.: 1989.
Focusing and Background-ing Operators.
In Fachgruppe Sprachwissenschaftder Universitat Konstanz, Arbeitspapier Nr.6.AcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOI~ 1992 2 2 5 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUO.
23-28, 1992
