SYNCt lRONOUS TAGs  AND FRENCtt  PRONOMINAL  CL IT ICSAnne ABEILLEDdpartement de sciences du langage,Universitd e P~u'is 8,2 me de la libertd, 93526 Saint Denisabedle@ frpSv I l.bimetIntroductionLexicalized Feature-based TAGs have been used fordescribing various syntactic phenomena cross severallanguages, and for writing sizable grammars fer Frenchand English (Abeilld 1988 and 199la, Abeilld et al1990) which have been incorporated into a fullyimplemented pursing systenl (Schabes 1990) 1.
The mainlinguistic advantages of such a forlnaiisnl are that:- it provides u larger donlain of locality than CFG-basedformalisms uch as HPSG or LFG,- it allows factoring recursion from tile domain of localdependencies,- as a consextuence of both above properties, it allows thegrammar to be totally lexicalized (Schabes et al 1988).However, a certain number of syntactic phenomena aredifficult to represent in this framework.
We focus here onFrench pronominal citrics which are cases of noncanonical argufnen\[ realization.
We show how they canbe naturally handled using the "Synchronous TAG"extension of the formalism as a turther set oiwellformedness conditions on tbe language and we extendthis treatment o uther cases of inisnlatch betv,,eensyntactic attachment and senlantic role.1.
Motivat ionFrench pronominal clitics have 'been subject o numerousstudies in both thexwetical and computational linguistics.We restrict here our discussion 1o syntactic properties ofclitics and thus ignore most of their morphological,2 phonological or binding properties , We show that theycannot be handled by existing TAG variants such asFOTAGs or MCTAGs (unless major cMnges are madeto the existing French TAG grammar) but IhutSynchronous TAGs provide an elegant and uncxpensivesolution.1.1.
Some l inguist ic propert ies of Frenchcitrics French pronominal citrics fall into 6 groups: tbenominative ones @'e, or~, iL..), the 1st, 2d person andreflexivc ones (se.
hie..), the accusative ones (le, la..),the dative ones (lui.
leur..) plus en and y which eachforms a class on its own.
They follow each other in arigid order: nora < refl < ace < dat < y <en, and aresubject to numerous corcstrictions3: no identicall.
It is also the basis of an interactive NLF' enviromnent(Paroubek et al 1992).
See Joshi 1987a and Schabes eta\].1988 f~)r an introduction to TAGs.2.
French pronominal clitics are subject to obligatorysandhi phenolnena such ms liaisolI and elision.3.
"I'tmse properties can easily be described with a finiteautomaton; Cf Gross 1989.ACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AoOr 1992 60ambiguous forms can cooccur even if they play different(and compatible) syntactic functions:(Ia) Paul songe c" Marie duns le jardin.
(Paul isdreaming about M~u'ie in the garden)(lb) * Paul y y songe (Paul dreams of her there)(2a) Paul remptit un verre de vin (Paul fills oneghLss with wine)(2b) * l'aal en en remplit un (Paul fills one with it)No tst or 2nd person direct object may coc(:cur with adative clitic: * Paul me leurprdsente (Paul introduces meto them).Citrics do not have tile same syntactic properties as NPs:they do not co~rdiuate with NPs, nor take NP modifiers,and are usually assigned a specific category (Cli0.
It iscommonly agreed upon that French pronominal ctitics(plus the negative marker ne) form a syntactic verbalcluster with the main verb (or with the reflected auxiliary4 if there is one) of the sentenceIn standard French, pronominal  cl it ics are incomplemenlary distribution with syntactic phrases ascomplements of various lexical heads (V, N, A).
Theymay appear t)n a verbal head (rf which they are not anargument:(3) Jean en est aired (cplt of the past participle)(4~ Jean lui est fiddte (cplt of the adjective)They :ire also subject 1o nmnerous lexieal constraints.Object cliticization may be ruled out by certain verbswhich impose a non clitic pronominal form:(5a) Jean (ressemble + pense) d Paul (Jeanresembles/thinks about Paul)(5b) Jean lui (ressemble + * pense),(5?)
.lean (?
* ressembte + pense) d lui(6a) Jean (pense + aline) que Marie h~ti raconte deshistoires.
(Jean thinks/likes it that Marie tells himstories)(6b) .lean lie pense + * l'aime).
(ruled out withintended mexming)Clitics en and y may also behave as adverbial modifiers.Several proposals have been made in computationallinguistics lk)r handliug these phenomena.
Bhs 1988 gavea GPSG treatnmnt of French citric objects, whichessentially cnnsiders them as preverbal NPs (with asDecial <Clit> feature), except for invert~ subject clilicswhich he considers verbal suffixes, lie does not consideradverbial uses nor cases of non kx:al dependencies or ofauxiliary-verb combinations.
Lexical entries for citrics in4 See for example Grnss 1968.
Kayne 1975 for variousargllnlellts t*or a Clilics Verb constittlent in Yrench.
SeeAbeilld 1992 for arguments against a VP constituent.P~aoc.
oF COL1NG-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992dislocated constructions arc duplicated.
Baschung et al1987 present a UCG treatment with a more restrictedcoverage which considers objeet citrics as functors taking(on their right) a verb expecting an NP (or PP) argumenton its right and returning a more saturated verb.
They donot give a uuified treamlent of subject clitics which theyconsider as standard NPs not" do they handle non localdependencies.
BSs et al1989 give a slightly modifiedversion of this treatment allowing for what they cu!lFrench "semi-free" word order.
Miller 1991, using aHPSG-style framework, considers clitics as "phrasalaffixes" on VP and uses optioual lcxical rules to updatethe subcategorization frame of the corresponding verbalentries and foot features to keep track of the presence of aclitic in the tree.
He accnunts lot a lot of non localdependencies (including causative constructions) butneeds extra constraints ohandle locality constraints.
Hedoes not talk about inverted clitics nor dislocatedconstructions.
This treatment is not, to otlr knowledge,implemented in a computational application.1.2.
Difficulties with existing TAG vari,'mtsWe can first put aside "fi'ozen" clitics which are easilyhandled in Lexicalized TAGs: they do not play anysemantic role and "co-head" the elementary trees of theirpredicate ("impersonal" il, se in "middle" constructionsanti various idioms).
Clitics with a semantic role(adverbial modifiers or arguments ofa verb, an adjectiveor a noun) are more difficult to handle.One could think of adding to the existing tree families(associated with the predicams) an elementary tree (with asubstitution node for the citric and an empty argumentnode) for each possible citric (or clitic combination)realiz,ation.
This would be somewhat uuprincipled and5lead to numerous extra trees , unless one generates thenew trees by metarules or lexical rules (Vijay-Shankerand Schabes 1992, Becket 1990).
It would also separatethe syntax of adverbial ctitics from that of argumeutalones attd disallow many non local dependencies.One might also considcr cxtensious of TAGs, such asFOTAG or MCTAG variants.
In MulticomponentTAGs, used for extunple by Kroch and Joshi 1986, theelementary units of the grauunar are tree sets (notexl hcrcwith braces) instead on single trees.
Adjunction (orsubstitutimt) thus becomes imullaneous adjuuction (orsubstitution) of the different members of a tree set into atree (or into the members of another tree set).
Thedifferent members of such a set need not be of the sametype, ~md we could use a set compristhg an auxiliary treebeaded by the clitic and an initial tree headed by tileempty striug for the ct)rrespondiug argument position:S ./-/ V <dotif>= xNO I' v b;?cc:+> NI I '  !
"~/"~V NIvolt \ k la <refl>=- / ex, / /Figure 1..lean la volt with MCTAGsTile substitutien node corresponding to the NPrealization of the ctunplement is thus filled with theempty string when the citric adjoins, ltowevel', this willnot work for PP complements, since in this case, thewhole PP subtree with the prel?mition "co-he4ul" wouklhave to be "zeroed" when the citric adjoins, an opcratiounot provided by the forumlism 6.S (l~ce>=-NO ,I. PP j /~ ._" V t<dat>=+./," 1 ! "
"~"  cc>=-ressemble a luiFigurc 2. llkx:king Jean lid ressernble with MCI'AGs.
"Free Order" TAGs is a variant analogous to the ID/LPformat for GPSG which was first introduced by Joshi1987b and developed by Becket et al 1991.
Argumentclitics would thus N: treated as moved NPs (substitutedat the same NP nodes) according to LI' statements suchas the following: Nl(+Clit) < V. This representationmight he attractive for handling cases of "cliticclimbing" er non local dependencies but facesunescapable problems:I It is similarly unable to account for dm argumentPP/clitic alternation, since the nixie to be substituted isan NP, not a PP in the non citric case.- It prevents from having an unified syntacticrepresentation f the different ittles (it dcms not makeany syntaclic distinction between NP and clitic subjects)- It does not regard tittles-verb as a constituent ill diesyntax, and it is difficult to see how corestrictionsbetween citrics could be handled (the ~uue warning heMstk}r prohibiting adverb insertion between citrics and verb).Current TAGs versions thus do not provide asatisfactoryaccount of die lion trltzen prmmminal c itics.
We nowturn to au alternate representation which will nut bestrictly syntactic but involve the syntactico-scmanticinterl)ce defined in the Synchronous TAGs fimnework.2.
A Synchrnuous 3'At;, representation2.1.
Synchronous TAGs Synchronous TAGs havebeen introduced by Shieher and Schabes 1991) tocharacterize correspondences between Tree-Adjoininglauguages.
They can he used for relating two TAGs fortwo different hutguages for the purpose of machinetranslation (Abeilld et al 1990), or lk~r relating aNI  \e5.
Two different trees would lm needed for Jean le lui donne(/can gives it to him) where first clilic=N1, second clltic=N2, and for Jean me le donne (Jean gives it m me) wherefirst clitic=N2, secemd clitic -N1.6.
We recall that.
due it) their lack of semantic autonomy, weconsider argument marking t)repc~sitions as co-heads of theelementary tree of their predicate, contrary to prepnsitionsheading adjLmcts wifich are autonomous heads of theirauxiliary tree.ACIES Dr COLING-92.
NArgrl~s, 23-28 Ao~r 1992 6 1 PRO(:.
OF COL1NG-92, NAN'iI~S, AUG. 23~28, 1992syntactic TAG and a semantic one for the same language,.7  for the purpose of generation or semantic analysts .
Weconsider here the latter case and assume that bothsyntactic and .semantic TAGs are lexicalized and feature-based 8.In Synchronous TAGs, TAG elementary trees are pairedwith semantic units expressed in a logical form languagewhich is also a lexicalized TAG.
The correspondences arestated as tree pairings with some of the nodes of thepaired trees possibly linked.
The following are examples9 of such pairings :5 F\1 I /  1130an je '~, '  \ ~ /Figure 3.
Pairing with semantic flees for Jean and NOdorrmrThe links between syntactic and semantic nodes meanthat an operation at one node in the syntactic tree has anequivalent combination at the linked node in thesemantic tree (and vice versa).
More precisely, thesemantic interpretation of a sentence is built"synchronously" with its syntactic derivation, bychoosing a pair of elementary trees (a syntactic one:T1, asemantic one:L1) from the grammar and repeatedlyupdating it as follows (Shieber and Schabes 1990):- choose a link between two nodes nl and n2 in the pair(T1, L1),- choose another pai r of trees (T2 and L2), the root nodesof which match the respective categories of the twonodes chosen above,- form a new pair by combining T2 at node nl and L2 atnode n2 and remove the link (if T2 and L2 have links,these are preserved in the resul0.The definition allows for the operations performed ateach node to differ, one being an adjunction and the othera substitution for example.
It also allows for a node tobe linked to several other nodes: in this case, only the"consumed" link is removed (the others are preserved and7.
See Shieber and Schabes 1991 for some arguments for theuse of trees instead of flat structures in Logical Form, and forthe use of adjunction as an alternative to substitution in LF.8.
We refer the reader to Schabes ct al.
1988 for more detailson LexTAGs.
Suffice here to say that the TAG elementarytrees are systematically associated with lexical "heads"anchoring them in the lexicon (and required not to be empty)and are combined together either by substitution oradjunction.
Feature structures are also associated at the nodesof the elementary trees and constraints on combining treescan be expressed in terms of success or failure of unification(Vijay-Shanker and Joshi 1988).
Not all featur/:s are shownhere.9.
The non terminal names in the semantic TAG aremnemonic for Formula, Term and Relation.
Only therelevant links are shown.we adopt here the convention that they are "pushed"?
.
.
10 upwards m the case of an adjunctton) .Since multiple links are allowed, one syntactic node maybe linked to .several semantic nodes, and conversely, onesemantic node to several syntactic nodes.
This allows forthe ability of a given syntactic element to play differentsemantic roles and for differeut syntactic realizations ofthe same .semantic role.
For example, as explained byAbeill6 and Schabes 1990, this formalism naturallyaccounts for file adverbial status of adjectives insertedinto idiomatic expressions: Jean a pris une vraie veste =Jean a vratment pris une veste (Jean has really come acropper).
We want to show here that, provided it is takenas part of the well-formedness conditions of thegrammar, it also accounts for the properties of Frenchpronominal citrics.2.2 .
Augment ing  TAG we l l fo rmednesscond i t ions  w i th  synchron ic i ty  Sofar, well- formedsentences of a TAIL have been defined in the syntax only?In this respect, an input sentence is accepted by the TAGparser iff it obeys the following conditions:- it can be derived from an initial tree rooted in S,- all features unify at each node in the correspondingderived nee.It is however possible to allow for the definition of thewell-formed sentences of the language to be given jointlyby the syntax and by the semantics, so that among theill-formed sentences certain will be accepted by thesyntax but rejected by the semantic rules if they cannotassign any interpretation to them.
Such semanticfiltering is not without history (Cf Pullum 1984) but itseems especially fruitful with the Synchronous TAGformalism because:- the syntax and the semantics use extactly the sameformalism,- the syntactic and semantic derivations are necessarilybuilt up in parallel.The following well-formedness constraint is thus addedto the parser: a sentence is acceptable iff it has at leastone valid semantic interpretation built "synchronottsly"with it.
By valid semantic interpretation, we mean that:- it can be derived from an initial semantic tree,- all features unify at each node in the correspondingderived semantic tree.Several linguists have also suggested such semanticfiltering for cases usually thought of as more syntactic(e.g.
Sag and Klein 1982).
The purpose of this paper isto advocate this device in various cases which all involvethe syntax-semantic nterface among which Frenchpronominal clitics,2.3.
F rench  pronomina l  e l i t i cs  w i thSynchronous  TAGs We rely on the existingelementary trees in the grammar to which we addsubstitution odes for all possible clitics.
Both cliticsand corresponding NP, AP or PP nodes are optional inthe syntax, their alternate realization is triggered by the10.
We refer the reader to Shieber and Schabes 1990 forformal aspects of Synchronous TAGs (which are morepowerful than TAGs).A~s  DE COLING-92.
NANTES, 23-28 AOt3X 1992 6 2 PREC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992associated semantic representation.
We show how we getthe following distribution:(7a) Jean int~resse Marie (Jean is interesting forMarie)(7b) Jean I'int~resse(7c) * Jean int&esse(7d) * Jean l'int&esse MarieS F/r----  A \(~m <(NO)~ V2 (NI)~ ~VI  i TO4, TI~Io)+i, .
.
, .
.
, " "~VOXint res t l />= <Cl2~ I \ "  e V /ace>=?
.
I.
~ /_ j /Figure 4.
Elementary tree pairing for NO intdresser N1Both NP argmuents of intiresser are linked with thecorresponding Terms in the semantic tree.
But the Cliticnodes are also linked to those Temts.
They are thusprevented co~cur  since only one substitution is allowedfor each Term on the semantic side.
Sentence (7b) is thusderived as follows:.of;7---"I / '  I I ~F \]ean' pro" ~ eregt'Figure 5.
Synchronous derived trees for Jean l' int&esseThe four sentences (Ta)-(7d) are allowed in the syntax butonly ,sentences (7a) and (7b) are associated a synchronousinterpretation.
No interpretation is possible for sentence(7c) because its derived semantic tree is incomplete: dteT1 is obligatory in the semantics.
No interpretation ispossible for sentence (Td) because whenever the clitic orthe NP tree is substituted, it synchronously fills the T1term and prevents the other to be substituted.A motivation tor treating cases (7c) and (Td) (i.e, cases ofargument missing or cooccurrence between clitics andfull phrases) as "semantically" deviant is that it seems tobe always possible to construct a context in which theycould be accepted 11.
We thus consider all the argumentnodes to be optional and compatible in the syntax, theirrealization will be incompatible in the semantics (andmight be obligatory if the semantic representationspecifies o),Handl ing elitic corresponding to PPs is nowstraightforward, as shown in the following pairing:S FJr---- A \  (NO) ~I V2 (PP)..---.,o I / jdat>=+ I 6 N.  / .-/Figure 6.
Elementary tree pairing for NO ressembler ~ NlNotice 1hat although N!
is the argument of the verb, itis the PP as a whole which as marked as optional (andwill be prevented to cooccur with a dative clitic).The same result could be achieved if one considers theelitics to be adjoined (instead of substituted) on thesyntactic side but this will necessitate a richer featuresystem to check clitic ordering and compatibility (seeAbcill6 1991a for a previous accomtt along these lines).In order to keep the feature system as simple as possible,we provide in fact nodes for all possil)le clitic realization(argumeulal or adverbial ones) in the correspondingelementary trees.
The complete tree for a transitive verblike voir is thus the following (with clitic numbering asin section 1.1) I 2:SFigure 7.
Elementary trees for NO voir N I .We will titus get Jean yen  voit, Il se volt etc...2.4.
Ambiguity and haplohtgy Ambiguit ies areprovided by the multiple links coming out of a cliticnode: en for example can correspond to an accusative oragenitive complement, y can Ire a dative complement oralocative adjmtct...
If one takes a verb with an optionalcomplement (such as songer) and the ambiguous clitic y,sentence (Sa) below is parsed as ambiguous whereas onlythe adverbial reading is selected fory in sentence (8b)13:(Sa) Jean y songe.
(1:Jean is dreaming there/2:Jeanis dreaming about his)(8b) Jean y songe d ses soucis.
(Jean is dreamingthere about his problems)11.
In fact (7d) is OK in spoken French, which can be shownto exhibit "clitic doubling", and (7c) may be improved as in:?
Si Jean n'est pas intdressara c'est parce qu'il ne salt pasint~resser.12.
See Miller 1991 for arguments for having the subjectclitics separated from the complements ones,13.
Contrary to Miller 1991, we do not consider that (84)has a third "haplology" interpretation (Jean is dreamingthere about it).
nor do sentences uch as Jean en remplit.
(Jean is filling some wiflx it)ACIES DE COLING-92, NANTES.
23-28 Aotlr 1992 6 3 PRO(:.
Or: COLING-92.
NANq'r~S, AUG. 23-28, 1992(I) S F F..A /r" I~I R TO R NOan r vo dream' /jean' loc-pro'(2)s/ '  .2S.
!n ( oor 0y ,Figure 8.
Two possible derivations for.lean y songeNotice that sentences (lb) and (2b) above are notgenerated since there is only one position for y and onefor en in the syntax.2,5, Further constraints Clitic insertion is ruledout in extraction contexts:(9) Je sais qui Jean regarde (I know who Jean islooking at)(9a) * Je sais qui Jean le regarde(9b) C'est Marie que Jean regarde (It is Marie thatJean is looking at)(9c) * C'est Marie que Jean la regardeIn these constructions, which correspond to distiuctelementary syntactic trees (in the tree family of theirhead) the obligatory syntactic realization of the extractedelement naturally prevents the substitution of thecorresponding clitic.This representation is also directly suitable for markingvarious constraints, e.g.
structural ones (ruling out endirect object for PP complements) or lexieal ones (verbswhich forbid cliticization of their complement such aspen.wr & Nhum or aimer que P).
As for feature quations,certain links are structurally defined as part of theelementary trees reg,'u'dless of their lexical head (and therewill be no link between en and the T complement odein the tree family for verbs with a PP complement),other links are brought by the lexical head and onlycertain verbs with a PP complement (ressembler but notpenser) will define a link between the dative Clitic andtheir T complement ode.We now show how the representation sketched abovenaturally extends to some cases of so-called "non local"dependencies and to cases of cooccurrence between theclitic and the corresponding argument.2.6.
Locality constraints and non localdependencies.
As noted by Shieber and Schabes 1990,locality constraints are inherent o the formalism ofSynchromms TAGs.
Contrary 1o Miller 1991, who runsthe risk of allowing too many non local dependencieswith the FFP, we titus do not need to add specificlocality constraints.Notice first that some "non local" dependencies in a PSGare treated locally in a TAG framework.
Examples ofthese are sentences with raising verbs (adjoining to VI)or attxiliaries (adjoining to V0) following the word order: Jean peut le voir, Jean l'a vu.
Adjoining a raising or anauxiliary verb only updates tile links coming out of theVl or V0 node and does not interfer with the links of theclitics.
We straightforwardly get: Jean aurait dtd aimd deMarie= Jean en aurait dtF aimF (Jean would have beenloved by Marie).
The agreement equations are thefollowing (with o-agr for object agreement):S(N0) 11, t:<agr>=x (NI)~,<~gr>=x V2b:<agr>=y(C 10 ~""~ vit:<agr>=y<egr>=x (El ~''~'z)~,- b: <ngr>=w<o-agr>=z V0 t:<agr>=w<o-ogr>zzFigure 9.
Agreement pattern for transitive verbsCliticization of the complement of an adjective isdirectly allowed in copular consmtctions: Jean estfidele g~Marie = Jean lui est fiddle (Jean is faithful to Marie).Copttlar constructions are (independently) treated asextended elementary trees in the TAG grammar, with theadjective co-heading the elementary tree with the verb andthe chic and PP(de) complement odes belonging to thei4same flee .However, such cliticization is ruled out lin modifyingadjectives.
Sentences snch as: J'ai rencontrF une fillefidOle d Jean = * Je lui ai rencontrd une fille fidOle (I meta girl faithful to Jean) are not generated since the T nodecorresponding to the complement of the adjective doesnot belong to the same semantic tree as that of NOrencontrer N1 with which the clitic tree must becmnbined.The same "local" treatment holds for cliticization ofcomplements of nouns.
It is allowed in light-verbconstrnctions such as: Jean a fair le portrait de Marie = Ilen afait le portrait (Jean made a picture of Marie), whichare represented as exl~nded elementary trees with the lightverb and the predicate nominal co-heading the slructure.It is rulod out by our treatment when the NP is in a15productive argument position14.
There are differences in acceptability for cliticizationwith verbs taking adjectival arguments : Je lui (sais +?
*trouve) Jean fiddle.
(I know\]find Jean faithful to her).
Thedifference is the same for extraction out of tile AP : A qui(sais+ ?
*trouves)-tu Jean fidt?le ?
and is acounted for bydifferent syntactic elementary trees (an extended one forsavoir, one with die AP to be substituted for trouver).15.
This is obviously too strong a constraint since there arecases where tile clitic corresponds to a complement of anoun at an arbitrary levet of entbedding, such as: Le bord dela couverture de ce livre est ddchir~e = Le bord de laeouverture n est ddchird (The ctmler of lhe cover of thebook is tom out).AorEs Dr!
COLING-92, NANTIiS, 23-28 AoI%r 1992 6 4 PROC.
Or: COLING-92, NANTES, AU?I.
23-28, 1992en, which al lows a direct object with a null he.~l-noun:Jean achdte deux potatoes = .lean en aehdte deux (Jeanboys two apples).
In such cases, the determiner heads asyntactic N initial tree but its solnantic tree is anattxiliary T tree which adjoins to the T node filled by theclitic.
We also account lot cases where the dative(humml) clitic is semantically equivaleot to a l}ossessive,a construction typical of nouns of inalienable possession(such as t?xly parts) combined with certain action verbs:Ce docteur selene les dents de Jean = Ce docteur luisoigne les dents (This doctor treats JeAufs teeth), llere,the clitic lui will paired with an auxiliary T tree (as thatfor possessive determiners) and its node will be linkedwilh tile T node of the direct comlllement (for tile verbsal lowing this): it may thus cooccur with Ihe NPCOlOpleiIlcnt.For lack of space, we do uot develop here Ilcliticclimbing" in causative constructions which require eithermulticomponent trees on the semantic side or lexicalrules adding causative double-headed lementary trees tothe existing tree families.2.7.
Cuoccurcence  between c l i t i cs  and  I'11tlphrases Such c{?
}Ccorrences are exhibited by invertedcontexts uch its: Qui Jean voit-il ?
Such inverted cliticsare represented ia the syntax as auxiliary trees whichtrigger an mversiou feature (Ahei116 1991 a) and adjoin tothe right of tile inflected verbal form.
On the semanticside, they are reprcsented as ambiguous: they areassociated witii Terms and may thus alternate with uoninverted clitics or NP suhjccts (Qui voit-il ?
), providedthe verbal nodes are linked with the subject T uede.
Butthey are also associated with auxiliary trecs adjoining aquestion marking at the top F node (and thus allowed tocooccur with NP subjects).Otlrer cooccurrences are exhibited hy dislocatedconstructious such as : .lean, Marie l'a vu or Marie l'avu, Jean (Jean, Marie saw) which tend to gencralize inspoken language.
Right dislocation for complementclitics can be accounted lot straightforwardly with thecxisting elementary trees if one allows for an alternativesemantic representation of the clitics, nan~ely anauxiliary emphatic scmantic trec (adjoining to the Term?
.
.
16node already filled by tile NP) instead el a full rerm :5 F~o, ~w , , .
R TO <o7, 2 o .t .X I / ,\[ ~ I R'Y  ;e~".z~ll0 VOlt IDt}FIOFigure 10, Derivation of a right dislocated constructionMultiple dislocations are thus allowed : Je le lui aiconfiE l'argent, ti Jean (I gave Jean the nloncy) :is well its"mediaiP' ones :,lean l'a eonfi?
l'argent, d Marie.
We donot consider here left dislocations which have different16, This alternative represenuttion of clitic l}ronouns assemantically vacuous is similarly used by Grmlshaw 1982for Spanish clitic doubling (optional feature Pred in theclitic entry).syntactic properties and for which a purely semanticprinciple see, ms neces.~ary in order to bind the pre~lNP (Cf Hirschbuhler 1975, Fr'~lin 1988).3.
F.xt ensionsWe show how tile synchronous 'FAG frameworknaturally handles other cases of discrepancies betweensyntactic attachment and semantic role, for various noncanonical configurations, while keeping the semanticcomponent very simple and strictly comlx}siti{mal.3.1 "Argument -ad juncts"  It has often been notedthat syntactic adjuncts may behave semantically as17 arguments .
q't~ese adjuncts may be in complemenulrydistribution with arguments, such as possessivedeterminers and PP(de) coulplement.s: la venue de Jean/sa venue (Jean's coming, his coming) vs * la venue/*savenue de .lean?
Syuebronous TAGs uatorally allow torepresent such possessives as auxiliary trees m thesyntax and as initial trees in tile semantics.
For example,tile above dislrihution with the noun venue is accountedfor by linking the attactonent l?
}tht of the determiner (thetop N) and the substitution ode {11' the PP complementtO one and the S~lllle snbstitlltiou node in tile18 corfespondillg senlantic tree :/ I  (~P~) ~"  TO~Figure 11.
Elementary trees for venueThe phrase * la venue is di~llowed because substitutionis obligatory at "II) and the definite article la is not pairedwith a Term initial tree.
Other such alternations involve"relational" adjectives such as voyage pr&~Mentiel/voyagedu prdsident and are handled sinfilarly (with the relationaladjective paired with a senumtic term).3.2.
"F, xtended" adjuncts It has also been noticedthat a(ljuncts inay \[lave a Selllantic SCOl~ well t}eyoodtheir syntactic attachorent point.
For examl}le, raisingverbs, negative adverbials, quautifiers all llave a semanticsentential scope ahh{}ugh they attach to verbal {}rnominal items.
These discrepancies are easily handledwith Synchronous TAGs provided correst}nnding linksare added to the elementary tree pairs (e.g.
between VIand the F uode for raising verbs; Cf Abeilt6 199 l b).Convcrsely, we can ball{lie cases of I'narftlW" scol)~3 snchas extraposed relative clauses which attach to S allhonghthey semantically modify an NP: tile syntactic S tree oftile relative chnlse is paired with an aaxiliary T rootedtree in tile scmaulics which adjoins t{} the T ilode17.
We leca\[I lhat in TAGs, there is a structural distinctionbetween modifiers (which are adj{}ined) 1ti1(.1 complements(which are substituted).18.
For some linguistic argumePds \[or representingdeterminers as sylttactic adjullcts, see for example Abeill61991aACII!S \]}I!COLIN(I-92, NAN"rE8, 23 28 A{}UI' 1992 6 5 P~(}c. {}F COLING-92, NANrI!s, AI:{I.
23 2g.
1992corresponding to the modified NP (provided S nodes arelinked with the argument T nodes) 19.Conc lus ionWe have shown how some non canonical arguments canbe naturally handled using the formalism of SynchronousTAGs, provided the syntax-semantic synchronicity isincorporated as a well-formednesss condition in thegrammar.
We have applied this treatment to Frenchpronominal clitics and handle the; r complementarydistribution with complements, without increasing thenumber of elementary trees in the grammar.
Thanks tothe extended omain of locality of TAGs, their localityconstraints are handled (similarly as subjaeency) withoutspecific stipulations.
We also handle cases of non localdependencies, provided one adds alternative semanticrepresentation for ambiguous clitic complements.
Thesame idea can be extended to other cases of mismatchesbetween syntactic attachment and semantic role, such as"extended" adverb scoping or exWaposition.ReferencesA.
Abeill6 1988.
A lexicalized Tree Adjoining grammarfor French, Tech.
report, Univ.
of Pennsylvania,Philadelphia.A.
Abeill6, K. Bishop, S. Cote, Y. Schabes, 1990.
"ALexicalized Tree Adjoining Grammar for English", Tech.Report, Univ.
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.A.
Abeill6, Y. Schabes, 1990.
"Non compositionaldiscontinuous constituents in TAG", Symposium ondiscontinuous constituency, Tilburg (forthcoming vanHorck, Wiesjma (eds), Mouton de Gruyter).A.
Abeill6, Y. Schabes, A. Joshi, 1990.
"UsingLexicalized TAGs for machine translation", 13th Coling,Helsinki.A.
Abeill6, 1991a.
Une grammaire lexicalis~e d'arbresadjoints pour le fran#ais: application d l'analyseautomatique, Th~se de Doctorat, Universit6 Paris 7.
(forthcoming Editious du CNRS, Paris)A. Abeill6 1991b.
"Raising verbs in Tree Adjoininggrammar", 26th Linguistik Kolloquium, Poznan(Vetalani, Darski (eds), Springer Verlag).A.
Abeill6, 1992.
"Sur la notion de syntagme verbal enfran~ais", Lingvisticae lnvestigationes, XVI:2.K.
Baschung, G. Bi~s, A. Corluy, T. Guillotin 1987.
"Auxiliaries and clitics in French UCG", 3rd EuropeanACL, Copenhagen.T.
Becker, 1990.
"Metarules lor TAGs", 1st TAGWorkshop, Sarrebriick.T.
Becker, A. Joshi, O. Rambow 1991.
"Long-distancescrambling and Tree Adjoining Grammars", 5thEuropean ACL, Berlin.G.
B~s 1988.
"Clitiques et constructions topicalis6esdans une grammaire GPSG du franqais", Lexique, n?6,Lille.G.
B~s, C. Gardent, 1989.
"French Order withoutorder",4th European ACL, Manchester.J.
Grimshaw, 1982.
"On the lexical representation fromance reflexive clitics", in Bresnan, The mentalrepresentation f grammatical relations, MIT Press.B.
Fradin, 1988.
"Approches des constructions itd6tachement : la reprise interne", Languefraneaise, 78.M.
Gross, 1968.
Syntaxe du verbe, Cantil~ne, Paris.M.
Gross 1989.
"The use of finite automata in thelexical representation f natural anguage" in Gross &Perrin (eds), Electronic dictionaries and automata inComputational Linguistics, Springer Verlag.P.
Hirschbuhler, 1975.
"A non transformational sourcefor left hand NPs", Linguistic Inquiry, 4.A.
Joshi, 1987a.
"An introduction to TAGs" in ManasterRamer, The Mathematics of language, Benjamins.A.
Joshi, 1987b.
"The relevance of TAG to generation",in Kempen (ed), Natural Language Generation,Dordrecht.R.
Kayne, 1975.
French syntax, MIT Press.A.
Kroch, A. Joshi, 1986.
"Analysing Extraposition i aTAG", in Huck and Ojeda (eds): DiscontinuousConstituents, Syntax and Semantics vol.
20, AcademicPress.P.
Miller, 1991.
Clitics and constituents in Phrasestructure grammar, PhD Thesis, Univ.
Utrecht.
(forthcoming Garland, New York)P. Paroubek, Y. Schabes, A. Joshi, 1992.
"XTAG: agraphical Workbench for developing TAGs", 3rd Conf.on Applied NL Processing, Trento, Italy.G.
Pullum, 1984.
"Syntactic and Semantic parsability",lOth COLING, Stanford.I.
Sag, E. Klein, 1982.
"The syntax and semantics ofEnglish expletive pronoun constructions", in Barlow etal.
(eds) Developments in GPSG, vol.
2, Indiana Ling.Club, pp.
92-136.Y.
Schabes, A. Abeill6, A. Joshi, 1988.
"Parsingstrategies with lexicalized grammars: Tree adjoininggrammars", 12th COUNG, Budapest.Y.
Schabes, 1990.
Computational nd MathematicalProperties of Lexicalized Grammars, PhD Dissertation,Univ.
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.S.
Shieber, Y. Schabes, 1991.
"Generation andSynchronous TAGs", Computational Intelligence 7:4.S.
Shieber, Y. Schabes, 1990.
"Synchronous TreeAdjoining Grammars", 13th COL1NG, Helsinki.K.
Vijay-Shanker, A. Joshi, 1988.
"A Feature-based TreeAdjoining Grammar", 12th COUNG, BudapesLK.
Vijay-Shanker, Y. Schabes, 1992.
"Structure sharingin TAGs", 14th COLING, Nantes.19.
This case has been handled by "local" MCTAGs (Krochand Joshi 1986) with "empty" trees for coindexing tile NPand the extraposed relative.
Due to the inherent locality ofSynchronous TAGs, the same ffect of clause boundedness a"local" MC-TAGs is achieved.ACTES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt'rr 1992 6 6 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTFs, AUG. 23-28, 1992
