CONVERTING LARGE ON-L INE  VALENCY D ICT IONARIESFOR NLP  APPL ICAT IONS:FROM PROTON DESCRIPT IONS TO METAL  FRAMESGEERT ADRIAENS \[1,2\] GERT DE BRAEKELEER \[1\]\[1\] Siemens-Nixdorf Software Center LiegeRue Des Fories 2, 4020 Liege, Belgium\[2\] Leuven University Center for Computational LinguisticsMaria-Theresiastraat 21 3000 Leuven, Belgiumgeert@ et.kuleuven.ac be0.
AbstractIn this paper, we report on a large-scale conversionexperiment with on-line valency dictionaries.
Alinguistically motivated valency dictionary in Prolog isconverted into a valency dictionary for a large-scalemachine translation system.
Several aspects of the twodictionaries and their backgroand projects are discussed,as well as the way their representations are mapped.
"/'heresults of the conversion are looked at from an economicperspective (fast coding for NLP), and also from acomputational-lexicographic perspective (requirementsfor conversions and for standardization of lexiconinformation).1.
IntroductionOne of the major bottlenecks for large-scale NLPapplications such as the METAL?
MT system 1 is theacquisition of their lexicons 2.
Whereas the developmentand fine-tuning of the grammars of such systems reachesits saturation point after a few years of R&D, theextension of their lexicons is a constant and evergrowing concern.
In order to speed up the lexicalacquisition process, coding tools are developed toincrease the human lexicographer's productivity andexisting electronic dictionaries are looked for that can beconverted and integrated with the particular NLPapplication at hand.In this paper we report on a large-seale conversion effortwith an eye to enhancing the METAL verb dictionarieswith several thousands of entries.
While the system iscapable of defaulting the necessary morphologicalinformation for verbs on the basis of their surfaceappearance (cp.
Adriaens & Lemmens 1990), it cannotautomatically create the complex syntactic-semanticvalency information, i.e.
the quantitative and qualitativecharacterization f the arguments of a verb.
Still, thisinformation is of crucial importance for the system toparse and translate correctly.
Valency characterizationscan be used to discriminate different readings of asentence during analysis (cp.
e.g.
the different usages ofhail: it is hailing, she hailed curses at me, he hailed mefrom the window, the people hailed him king).Moreover, they are often useful for disambiguatingpurposes with an eye to translation: for Dutch, for1 Metal?
is a Siemens-Nixdorf (SNI) product.
TheUniversity of Leuven co-develops the Dutch-French,French-Dutch and French-English language pairs with SNI.2 Cp.
Walker, Zampolli & Calzolari forthcoming,Boguraev & Briscoe 1989, Zemik 1989.instance, to reach for something is a usage that needs adifferent ranslation from m reach somebody something(pakken versus overhandigen).
(For a detailed iscussionof the importance of valency for NLP and MT inparticular, we refer to Gebraers 1991.)
To recognize theneed for detailed valency descriptions in NLPapplications i one thing, to acquire them is less self-evident.
In a system like METAL, the valency feature onverbs represents the most complex and hard-to-codeelement in its lexical representations.
Hence, toautomate and speed up the acquisition process, we usedelectronic valency dictionaries for Dutch and French ascoded by the PROTON project (see van den Eynde et at.1988, Eggermont & van den Eynde 1990, Eggermont etat.
forthcoming) as our starting point.
The conversionwas a non-trivial exercise in computational lexicographyfor several reasons.
First, the PROTON databases aremainly descriptive and exhaustive in nature; they werenot conceived with particular NLP applications in mind.METAL, on the other hand, seeks parsimony forefficient computational treatment within a machinetranslation application.
More in particular, PROTONcodes one entry per valency frame of a verb, whereasMETAL merges valency patterns into "superframes",storing these only once for each verb.
Second, theirrepresentation formalism is based on a particulardistributional linguistic approach (the PronominalApproach, see 2.2) not completely alien to the METALrepresentation, but not straightforwardly convertibleeither.
And third, the PROTON databases take the formof Prolog clauses, whereas METAL uses Lisp lists.Beside the purely practical goal of fast lexicon extension,there are a few interesting questions to be asked that maybe relevant beyond that goal:- Is such a conversion worth the eflort of defining a"waterproof" mapping between the source and targetformalisms, and of developing the programs to do themapping?
In other words, could we trot simply havecoded the several thousand verbs by hand instead ofspending months on the conversion?- To what extent are these conversion experiments u efulfor an attempt at defining a theory-neutral standard forthe representation of valency information in verbdictionaries for NLP applications?
Or, lessambitiously, can we come up with a set ofrequirements for convertibility of lexieal resources?2.
Verbal valency descriptions2.1 General considerationsACRES DE COL1NG-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOlrr 1992 1 l 8 2 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTtT, S, AUG. 23-28, 1992lu linguistic ternls, veibal valeucy can be characterized aslexically controlled structural potential of a verb; inartificial intelligence terms, one would say that file verbhas a frame structure with different role slols to be.
filledby constituents in the sentcnce.
Since the verb is oftenthe nucleus of infornmtion arom|d which the differentsentential elemeuts are orgtulized, it is inLportant for anNLP system to contain this valency info|mation.
Whatthen are file aspects of representation cue has to take luteaccount, ill llarticular with an eye to NLP applications?The first problem to be solved is what falls within filescope of the verb's valeucy (i.e.
Ihe number and kind ofvalency-bound elements) and what falls outside of it (i.e.the free atljuncts of the sentcnce).
An answer to thisquestion leads to a quantitative classification (if verbs asnmnovalent (only one wllency element), bivalent (two)etc, and a qualitative classification of verbs asintransitive (subject, no ot~ject), Ir~msitive (subject andobject), etc.
Next, one bites tile problem of thedistinction I)etweeu obligatoly and optiomd valency-bound elements (a distinction that is of particularimportance to a role assignment algorithm).
And finally,one must name, categorize and sulx;ategorize theseelements, defining legal fillers lot a certain slot.
If a verbhas several valencies (corresponding to differentsyntact ic /semant ic  readings) ,  an addit iunalrepresentational matter to be handled (at a higher level oflexicou organization) is the way 1o store the differentvalencies.
Are patterns stored ~parately with a repetitionof the verb for each pattern?
Can patterns be collap~dand stored just once with the verb?
Decisions on thesematters influence the database organization andconsultation for NLP applications.
In the next twosubsections, we will show how the two formalismsbetween which the conversion was made try to provideanswers to tile relu'e~ntation questions folmulated here,ill particular lot large ~ts of French and Dutch verbs.2.2 PROTON2.2.1 The PROTON projectThe Proton (Prolog en taalonderzoek, Prolog andlinguistic research) project started in 1986 with as cue ofits major ohjectives die COllStrnction of on-line valencydictionaries tor \[;reach and Dutch.
The starting poiut wasnot a particular NLP application, but rather a linguisticconcern for de~riptive correctness and completmless.Still, computational concerns were I)resent right fronithe start, which led to the choicc of l'rolog as thedeclarative language for storing and processing the verbs(with processing ranging from sinlple retrieval ofspecific subsets of verbs to NLP applications incomputer-aidcd language learning and parsing).
Paperdictionaries, Ix)th gener',d (Le Petit Robert for French,Van Dale Basiswoordenboek tot Dutch) and valencydictionaries (Bus~ & Dubost 1983 for French) were usedas background material.
For the actual coding of theverbs, a particular distributional framework Ibrmed thebasis, viz.
the Pronominal Approach 3.
Although thereare many interesting sides to this approach (e.g.
theexact methodology followed to determine reading3 See Blanche-Benveniste et al1984 or Eggeimont et al1990 for full accounts of the Ih-onomiual Apltroach.distinctinns in verbs), we a~e mainly interested here intile actual output of the lexicographic work, bothquantitatively and for representatinn issues.
A.s far asnunlbers are concerned, the cmrent status of the valencydictionaries of Dutch and French is the following.
TheDutch valency dictionary contains about 4500 verbs;since each syntaelic/~mautic reading is coded separately,there are actually about 6300 valency llatterns coded.
ForFrench the two figures are 4(X)0 and 85004.
(Note, in thepassing that the frame/verb ratio is 1.3 fi~r Dutch and 2.1for French.)
A rough estimate of the effort spent indoing this codiug is 2 man-years Ior French, 1 man-year"for Dutch.
Tile diflerence is mainly due to the fact thatFrench was file first lauguage Proton started out with; bythe time Dutch was handled, coding experience midc(xling Iools were available.2.2.2 The I 'ROTON valency representat ionProton database entries arc l'rolog facts, consisting of athree-place v ln'edicate; the three arguments are anidentification mlml~cr, the verb's iufinitive, and a liststructure containing the informatinn related to onevalency realization.
Due to space limitations, we have 1o~cfer to De Braekeleer 1991 tbr a fornlal account of thislist structure; tor exmnples, we relier file reader tn SKX~tiOll4, For clarity's ake, we informally give the meaning ofimlx)rtaut abbreviategl nt~tions: pO relates to the notionof subject, pl Io that el direct object, p2 to indirectobject, p3 to a slx~cific prepositional object with de(related to French en), pprep to other prepositionalobjects, ploc/pmanner/ptemp/pqt 1o adverbial ofIocation/manner/time/quantitiy respectively.hi genelal, it cua be said that Proton valency entries arcdense in inl{trmatioo, hut (in the other hand souiewhatloosely structured.
We will see below that NLPapplicatkuls ike Metal have a more rigid structure thatis not so dense in information.
For a conversionexperiment this difference is both an advantage mid adisadvantage: the advantage is that one can go fromstructures that conlain more than one needs; ritedi~ldvantage is that the determination f what maps towhat is not straightfi~rwzu'd.2~3 METAL2.3.1.
The METAl ,  systemIn contrast to Proton, Metal is a specific Nl.l'application, viz.
a machine translation system, ItsGerman-English, English-German, German-Spanisll,Dutch-French and French-Dutch systems arcconlmercially available; French-English, German-Danish, English-Spanish, Spanish-English and Russian~German are under development.
Full descriptions of thesystem can be found elsewhere 5.
A brief account of4 In the course of 1991 the Frencll valency database will bectJmnrercially available in electronic h~r~t (Eggermont et alforthcoming).5 See Bennett & Slocum 1988, Thtumair 1989, Adriaens &Caeye~s 199(I fc~r general overviews; a general des~Tiptionof the lexicon tbrmat call Ire found in Adriaens & l-emmens1990.Ac-rlis DE COLING-92, N^Nr~s, 23 28 AO(Yf 1992 l 1 g 3 Pace.
OF COLING-92, NANrI!S, AUG. 23-28, 1992valency in Metal can be found in Gebrners 1988; an in-depth study of valency and machine translation bringingtogether work in the Proton and Metal projects is thetopic of Gebrners 1991.
Here, we will just give a generalidea of the place of valency information in the Metalsystem and of how this information is used in thetranslation process.
Valency patterns are stored as afeature-value pair on verbs in the monolingualdictionaries, in such a way that all patterns are codedonly once with the verb; reading distinctions can giverise to different valency patterns, but even then they areall stored together with the verb.
During analysis by anaugmented context-free grammar (handled by a chartparser), rules at sentence level call a procedure for roleassignment to the constituents of the sentence.
Thisprocess is an intricate combination of general patternmatching algorithms and linguistically definedprocedures (triggered by the valency information) fordetermining the best fitting valency pattern.
In fact, therole assignment process can be said to consist of agrammar within the grammar, and a parser within theparser; it takes up a substantial proportion of the totaltime spent on sentence analysis.
During transfer, valencyinformation is again used (in the transfer dictionary) todisambiguate among different verb readings.
Formapping into the target language, there are twoapproaches within Metal that have implications for theamount of valency-related information in the transferdictionary.
One approach tries to build a minimalhypothetical target language frame on the basis of thesource role assignments and some crucial mappinginformation (e.g.
for to like -> plaire, the subject ismapped into an indirect object, and the direct objectbecomes the subject: 1 like you -> Tu me plais).
It thensearches the monolingual target dictionary for a valencypattern that fits best with its hypothesis.
The otherapproach tries to build the target frame without using thetarget dictionary at all: on the basis of the source roleassignments and mapping information in the transferdictionary, it builds the valency information for thetarget (see Gebruers 1991 for a detailed comparison ofthese approaches,  with their advantages anddisadvantages).
In short, valency plays an important rolein all phases of the translation process 6, involvingcomplicated grammar and coding work.
We concludethis brief sketch of valency in Metal by adding somefigures of the size of the monolingual dictionaries.
Atthe time of the conversion (March 1990), Metalcontained 1600 Dutch verbs with 2050 valency patterns(a frame/verb ratio of 1.3) and 1055 French verbs with1600 patterns (a frame/verb ratio of 1.5).
Let us add rightaway that partly thanks to the conversion effort we wereable to increase these figures drastically in a short periodof time (see section 4).
Currently, there are 3000 Dutchverbs with 3700 valency patterns (frame/verb atio = 1.2)and 2130 French verbs with 2850 valency patterns(frame/verb ratio = 1.3).
In general, all othermonolingual dictionaries of the commercially availablesystems (i.e.
English, Spanish and German) also containover 2000 verbs (2500, 2300 and 4000 respectively).6 See Gebmers 1991, 206-221 for an overview of valencytreatment in other MT systems (TAUM, SUSY, GETA-ARIANE, VAPRE, EUROTRA).2.3.2 The METAL valency representationIn METAL, valency is coded as one of the featare-valuepairs on the lexicon entries for verbs (along with otherinformation about morphology, syntax and semantics).Since the system is written in Lisp, its elements howthe typical Lisp list structure.
As for Proton, we have torefer to De Braekeleer 1991 for a full formal account ofthe METAL valency format; examples can be found insection 4.
The meaning of some important abbreviationsis the following: $SUBJ stands for subject, SDOBJ fordirect object, $10BJ for indirect object, $ADV foradverbial complement, $POBJ for prepositional object,$SCOMP for subject complement, and $OCOMP forobject complement.
N1, NO, IMPS and ADJ indicatenominal, sentential, impersonal and adjectivalsubeategorizations re pectively.
Adverbial complementsare further divided into LOC(ative), MAN(ner),MOV(ement), R(a)NG(e), T(e)MP(oral) and MEA(sure).Further subeategorization information is rendered asfeature-value pairs, e.g.
(TYPE P1) roughly correspondsto +human role fillers.
Metal further uses the "OPT"atom in its valency patterns to indicate the optionalvalency-bound elements.
Obligatory elements come first,those following the "OPT" atom are optional.
Finally,the valency pattern contains General Frame Tests (afterthe "GFT' atom).
These tests am executed before the roleassigning mechanism tries to find fillers; they concernfeatures that if present at the clause level should havespecific values: the auxil iary (values are H/Z,hebben/zijn for Dutch; AlE avoirMtre for French) and thesentence's voice (VC; A/P, active~passive).
It isinteresting to note how in an application like Metal thiskind of information (also present in the Protondescriptions) receives a special status with an eye to anefficient role assignment algorithm: if a valency patterncan be found not to apply because some restriction at theclause level is not satisfied, the pattern is discarded andno computation is wasted on checking the potential rolefillers.3.
Mapping PROTON to METALit was already noted in 2.2.2 that the different origin ofthe two formalisms accounts for certain differencesbetween them.
Proton codes in an application-neutralfashion, exhaustively (aiming at descriptive adequacy),on a one-entry one-pattern basis, and in a relatively freeformat.
Metal codes with an eye to a specific application(MT), pragmatically (what do we need for the applicationto run?
), on a one-entry all-patterns basis (evencollapsing some patterns in a superframe), and in arelatively rigid format easily digestible by software andlingware.
Since the goal of the conversion was to derivethe information eeded in Metal, a f'wst step was to linkall the Metal specifications to the corresponding Protonones.
Given the detailed nature of the Proton valencyschemes, there were very few gaps in this mapping.
Oneis worth mentioning, though.
Proton does not go as faras Metal in the subcategorization f the adverbialcomplements (Metal's $ADVs); range and movementcomplements are not treated in a consistent way.
Below,we show part of the resulting mapping table (not allsubeategorization details are shown; see De Braekeleer1991, 61-62).
It organizes the valency information fromthe Metal point of view: the relevant items areAC'I'ES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt~'r 1992 l 1 8 4 PROC, OF COLING-92, NANTEs, AUO.
23-28, 1992optional i ty,  naming of  roles, categorizat ion,subcategorization and general frame~sts.Proton Dutch Froton FrenchOPT \[\[I ...\] \[\[l ...l$SUBJ t ~) !30$1X)BJ pl pl$1OBJ p2 p2('qui")SPOBJ pprep p2Cy"), p3, pprep$SCOMP (these two must be derived from$OCOMP several elements combined)$ADV advtype ~vtypecf.
typecf.
FCP / \[CPp(p0,\[' t'l) p(pO.\[qlT)related.~par adigmsN1NOIMPSAI)JsubcateeorizationsADXrI'YPE : LOCTMPMEAMANRNG, MOVTYPE ; P1PO~eneral frametests:VC: APAUX Dutch ZIIFrench AE"wie""war"plocptemppqttnnanner"qui""que", "quoi"relatedpar, p(reform,\['pas si f fitre'l)related_par, absence of abovep(mfonn,\['zijn+vd.
', ...\])p(refonn,\['perfectum hcbben', ...\])auxiliary(\['avoir'l)auxiliary(\['b.tre'\] )4.
Aspects of the conversion softwareIdeally, the conversion should be a fully automaticprocess that t'alces the Proton database as input anddelivers a Metal monolingual verb lexicon.
Given thatthe Proton database also contains a field with severaltranslations for each verb reading, we could evenenvisage creating transfer entries for the verbs as well.Yet, there are several reasons why we could only actfievea semi-automatic conversion.
As to the automaticgeneration of transfer entries, this idea had to beabandoned altogether, because it was too hard to pinpointthe distinctive information among the different patternsand translate that into contextual tests and actions in theMetal transfer dictionaries.
Still, the translation field waspreserved in the conversion output, so thatlexicographers coding the transfer entries akeady lind tttetranslations on-line.
As to the fully automatic generationof a monolingual lexicon, several problems could not beovercome.
First, we "already noted in the previous ectionthat not all information eeded for Metal was present inthe Proton database; this implies that manual checks forcompleteness of the frames had to be made in any case.Second (and most important), we could find nosatisfactory algorithmic solution to the problem ofmapping rite one-entry one-valency-pattern organizationof Proton into file one-entry all-patterns organization ofMetal.
Note that this is m)t a simple matter of collectingall the separately coded valency patterns for the sameverb, anti storing them once as a long list with file verbill the target database.
For one thing, Metal does notne.ed all possible valency patterns for its purpose ofmachine translation; the amomtt of patterns is kept assmall as possible for efficient storage and computationrea~ns.
Moreover, the patterns that remain are mergedinto "superpatterns" or "snperframes" as much aspossible; where relevant for translation, the transferdictionaries take them apart again.
The way Mehdlexicographers decide on distingnislting valency patterns(verb readings) monolinguaUy proved hard to trmlslateinto a foolproof algorithm; there are at tile most someintuitions, heuristics or rules of thumb.
Hence, it wasdecided to convert on a per pattern basis, and leave themerging of patterns to rile human lexiGographer.The conversion software itself is written in CommonLisp (about 1000 lines of code).
It works in two phases.First, the Protun Prolog clau~s pass through a finite-state transducer interpretiug them as plain characterstrings.
The output of this pass is "lispified Prolog":Prolog chmses are turned into l.isp lists.
At the sametime, the necessary conversions at the character level arctaken care of: characters that would have a specialmeaning to the "Lisp reader" software (such as a commaor a backquole) are neutralized, and the extended ASCII-character sequences for aecentezl characters are turned intoMetal's ISO-8859-1 characters.
The ~cond pass parsesthe lists and converts them into structures whose mostimportant field is the Metal frame.
Additional softwaretakes care of putting the Metal frames in their canonicalorder (i.e.
a subject is coded before an object, etc.
), andprovides tools fi)r lexicographers to manipulate theconversion outpnt.
As an illustration, we give onesimple example of what the input and the outpot of theconversion look like:v (24720,'ddgager',\[ex('r : ddgager qqn d'une charge'),Ir(\['ontslaan (van)','ontheffen (van)'\]),p(pO,\[je,nous,on,qui,elle,il,ils,'cclui-ci','ceux - i'\] ),p(pl.\[te,vous,'se r~.
','l'un l'autre','se rdfl.
',qui,la,le,les,'en Q','celui-ci','cenx- ci'\]),p(p3 ,\[en,'en~de inf)',quoi, 'celui-ci','ceux-ci','q a','~a(de h~ 0'\] ),p(reform,\['passif bare'\]), pivot(pl,pO,de inf,p3)l ).d~gagerExample : (r : d~gager qqn d'une charge)Transfer : (outs|aan (van) omheffen (van))Proton : ((reform passif bare)(p3 en en(de inf) quoi celui-ci eenx-ci cat qa(de inf))(pl te veus se r&:.
Fun l'aune se r6fl.
qui la leles en Q celui-ci ceux-ci)(pOje uous on qui elte il ils celui-ci ceux~ci))(($SUBJ N1 (TYPE PI))($DOBJ NI (TYPE P1) (PRN RFX))($POBJ NI (PREP de) NO (ICP de) (PIV$DOBJ)))5.
Discussion of resultsUsing the conversion software, the complete Protondatabase (at that time, i.e.
March 1990, consisting of85130 valency structures for French and 600(I for Dutch)ACTES lYE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AO~rr 1992 1 1 8 5 PRec.
OF COL1NG-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992was processed into a database with Metal valencypatterns that could form the basis of manual coding.
Inthe first place, checks were run to compare the results ofthe conversion with the frames already coded in thedictionary.
This already led to an improvement of theexisting database.
In the second place, additional verbcoding is now being done on the basis of the conversionoutput, and not from scratch (i.e.
from paperdictionaries).The total effort spent on developing the software(including the preliminary study phas~ constructing themapping table) was about four man-months.
When wecompared the time needed to code Metal valency framesstarting from scratch (the way the first 1000 verbs wereadded to the system) with the time needed to code framesstarting from the output of the conversion, we found thaton the whole, and subtracting the conversiondevelopment effort, coding productivity isspeeded up bya factor of 2.
In other words, the practical goal of fastextension of the verb dictionaries was certainly reached.As to the more general questions of requirements forconvertibility of lexical resources or standardization flexical information, a few remarks are in place.
First, inour case the input lexical resource was in a fairly easilyconvertible format, viz.
Prolog clauses.
Even so, since itwas the fu'st time the Proton databases were used outsideof the project, several ambiguities and inconsistencieswere found that needed correction before the conversioncould take place.
A basic requirement for convertibilitythen seems to be a rigid description of the syntax andsemantics of the database entries; before the resource ismade available to the outside world, it should be checkedthoroughly against i s own specifications (parsers can begenerated automatically on the basis of a BNF-likesyntax).
More ambitiously, if the formats of valencyinformation in different applications were known, theresource could be made available along with convertersor converter specifications.
As to the long-term goal ofstandardization, we are planning to use the experiencesgathered from the conversion (along with knowledgeabout other formalisms, like that used in EUROTRA orin the databases of the Nijmegen Centre for LexicalInformation CELEX) to study the requirements for atheory-neutral nd application-neutral standard forvalency representation.
Since valency is not restricted toverbs, but also concerns adjectives and nouns, thestandard could even try to be category-neulxal as well.Although the Proton-Metal conversion proved asuccessful experiment in computational lexicography,many linguistic and computational issues concerningvalency and its processing have not been touched uponhere and certainly need further esearch.
To name but afew: nominal and adjectival valency, a foolproofmethodology for making and/or merging readingdistinctions, valency and idiomatic expressions, theinteractions of the different types of valency informationin an NLP application, and the link with moresemantically oriented approaches to valency.
On thebasis of the availability of large amounts of valencydata, and the experience with different formalisms, wehope to be able to tackle some of these issues in thefuture.ReferencesAdriaens, G. & H. Caeyers (1990)p - "Hetautomatisch-vertaalsystcem METAL : van onderzoek totcommercieel produkt" in Ing~nieur & lndustrie, Dec1990, 281-288.Adriaens, G. & M. Lemmens (1990) -- The self-extending lexicon: off-line and on-line defaulting oflexical information in the METAL translation system.In Proceedings of the 13th COLING, Vol 3, 305-307.Bennett, S. & J. Slocum (1988) - The LRCMachine Translation System.
In J. Slocum (ed) MachineTranslation Systems Studies in Natural LanguageProcessing.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,111-140.Blanche-Benveniste t al.
(1984) -- Pronom etSyntaxe, I'approche pronominal et son application aufran~ais.
Paris: Selaf.Boguraev, B.
& E. Briscoe (eds) (1989) --Computational lexicography for natural languageprocessing.
London: Longman.Busse, W. & J.P. Dubost (1983) -- Franz0sischesVerblexicon.
Die Konstruktion der Verben imFranz0sischen.
Stuttgart: Ernest Klett.De Braekeleer, G.(1991) -- De conversie vanPROTON valentiestructuren naar METAL frames :conversie of (contr)aversie.
University of LeuvenMaster's Thesis in Computational Linguistics.Eggermont C., E. Broeders & K. van denEynde (forthcoming) -- Dictionnaire automatis6 desvalences des verbes fran~ais.
University of Leuven.Eggermont, C. & K. van den Eynde (1990) - Aprono-minal basis for computer-assisted ranslation: theProton project.
In Thelen, Lewandowska &Thomaszczyk (eds), Translation and meaning I.Maastrieht: Euroterm, 1-14.Gebruers, R. (1988) -- Valency and MT: recentdevelopments in the METAL system.
In Proceedings ofthe 2nd ACL, Austin, 168-175.Gehruers, R. (1991) -- On valency and transfer-basedmachine translation.
An inquiry into the language-technological applicability of theoretical valencyconcepts.
University of Leuven PhD Thesis.Thurmair, G. (1990) -- Aufgabentyp Linguistik:Projekt METAL.
In D. Nebendahl (ed), ExpertensystemeTeil 2: Erfahrungen aus der Praxis.
Siemens AG,Milnchen.van den Eynde, K. et al (1988) -- The pronominalapproach in NLP: A pronominal feature analysis ofcoordination i  French.
In Computers and Translation3, 177-213.Walker,  D., A. Zampoll i  & N. Calzolari (eds)(forthcoming) -- Automating the Lexicon: Research andPractice in a Multilingual Environment.
Oxford: OxfordUniversity Press.Zernik, U.
(1989) -- Paradigms in lexieal acquisition.In Proceedings of the first international lexicalacquisition workshop, Detroit (Zernik ed.
).ACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES.
23-28 AOt)r 1992 l !
8 6 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUO.
23-28, 1992
