STOCK OF SHARED KNOWLEDGE -- A TOOL FOR SOLVING PRONOMINAL ANAPHORAEVA HAJlt~OVA, VLADISLAV KUBOIq and PETR KUBOIqUFAL School of Computing ScienceCharles University Faculty of Applied SciencesMalostransk6 n~n.
25 Simon Fraser UniversityCS-118 00 Prague Burnaby, B.C.
V5A 1S6Czechoslovakia CanadaABSTRACTThe paper develops further the idea of using thenotion of the stock of shared knowledge (SSK) foranaphora resolution following a more subtletreatment of the influence of the topic/focusarticulation of the sentence on the degrees ofsalience of items of the SSK.
An algorithmicevaluation procedure of the SSK is formulatedtaking into account the notions of contextualboundness, yntactic associations, complexity of thesentences and existence/nonexistence of possiblecompetitors, and a general evaluating function isproposed, essential for the process of anaphoraresolution.
In the present paper the analysis isperformed for Czech; however, the considerationsare claimed to be of a universal validity, the actualrelations between different factors and the values, ofcourse, being language-dependent.
(MAX-l) than the items referred to in the focuspart;(iii) a pronominal reference to an item in thetopic part of the utterance keeps the activationunchanged;(iv) the items not mentioned in the givenutterance subtract two degrees from their previousactivation.As we stated already in the above mentionedpaper, this was only a tentative solution on the wayto a more sophisticated approach to organizing"common knowledge" of' the speaker and thehearer.Supported by a thorough linguistic analysis ofa large amount of Czech prosaic texts Hoskovec(1989), two possible improvements to the procedurehave been suggested Haji~ov~t, Hoskovec, Sgall (inpress), namely:1 .INTRODUCTIONIn our paper at Coling'90 we followed up theinvestigations presented in HajEov~i, Vrbov~ (1982)and proposed an algorithm for solving pronominalanaphora with the use of "stock of sharedknowledge" (SSK) - an abstract representation fthe hierarchy of salience of the items of theknowledge assumed by the speaker to be shared byhim and the hearer.
The changes of degrees ofsalience were dependent solely on the bipolardivision of the sentence into its topic and focusparts, respectively.
In particular, the rules forcomputing the degrees of salience were specified asfollows:(i) the items referred to in the focus part of theutterance be it by a noun or by a stressed pronounreceive the highest degree of salience (MAX);(ii) the items referred to by a noun in the topicpart of the sentence are activated one degree less(i) to replace the binary account of topic/focusarticulation of the sentence by a more atomicdistinction between the contextually bound andnon-bound elements of the sentence, thus enrichingthe numerical system of possible degrees ofsalience;(ii) to account explicitly for the empiricalobservations that items mentioned throughout thediscourse are more likely to be referred to thanthose mentioned only once.In this paper we would like to argue that otherimportant features hould he taken into account inbuilding the new evaluation system for the SSK.
Webelieve that for a more sophisticated treatment ofpronominal anaphora, an account of SSK must alsoallow for:(iii) a reflection of the topology of the surfacestructure of the text, in the simpliest form in termsof the distance of the possible antecedent and aACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Aofrr 1992 1 2 7 Pgoc.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUO.
23-28, 1992refering expression measured by the number ofinterfering objects between them with respect to thesentence and paragraph boundaries;(iv) a capturing of some associations betweenlexieal units describing objects in the text.
We havelimited our attention only to syntactic associationsbetween governing and dependent words in thesyntactic structure of the sentence.
More generaltreatment of associations requires the use ofsemantic and/or pragmatic information (eg.semantic features, knowledge base etc.)
which is nottaken into consideration in the present version of thealgorithm, but forms a promising subject of furtherinvestigations of possible improvements of thealgorithm.Taking these observations into account, wepresent a new, enriched model of SSK here.
InSection 2 we briefly discuss the relevance of theabove mentioned features for anapbora resolution.Section 3 gives a proposal of the organization ofSSK, together with the rules evaluating changes indegrees of salience of its items and a generalalgorithm for reference assignment based on the useof SSK.
The possibility of customizing thealgorithm for the purposes of a special languageunder consideration (i  our case Czech) is discussedin Section 4.2.
MOTIVATIONIn our analysis, we work within the frameworkof the functional generative description (see Sgall,Haji~v~ and Panevovg, 1986).
We represent themeaning structure of a sentence as a dependencytree rooted in the main verb, the nodes of the treebeing labelled by lexical and morphologicalmeanings.
The edges denote the underlyinggrammatical relations between odes.
All nodes ofthe tree can be either contextually bound (CB) - ifthe objects they denote are "given', "known" fromthe context - or non-bound (NB) - if they introducenew information i to discourse.The meaning of a sentence r presented by sucha tree is then viewed as divided into two parts - atopic (T), "stating" what the sentence is about, anda focus (F), commenting or developing the topic.The topic-focus articulation OVA) of a semencecan be specified according to the sentence structureas follows (eL Sgall 1979):(i) F contains the main verb iff the verb is NB;(ii) F contains all daughter nodes of the verbwhich are N'B, together with all nodes ubordinatedto them (which in tam are either NB or CB);(iii) if the verb together with all daughter nodesis CB (and, therefore, none of (i),(ii) applies), F isdefined with respect to a deeper embedded node.
( This ease is rather are and we do not consider itin our analysis for the sake of simplicity.
)(iv) T consists of all the nodes not contained inF.Thus, for the purpose of this paper, only thedifference between NB nodes and CB nodes on thefirst level of dependency is taken into considerationwhile specifying TFA of a sentence.
We would liketo show in the sequel that there is a linguisticevidence which suggests .that deeper levels ofsyntactic embedding (at least the second level) beaccounted for in the resolution of anaphora.For the sake of simplicity, we represent thesentence schematically:VerbI i Io(1) G(2)i i1 I I IG(3) G(4) G(5) G(6)Topic Focuswhere G(I) is a group of CB nodes on the first levelof dependency (belonging to T),G(3), G(5) are CB nodes on the second levelof dependency (belonging to T and F respectively),G(2) is a group of NB nodes on the first levelof dependency (belonging to F) andG(4), G(6) are NB nodes on the second levelof dependency (belonging te T and F respectively).2,1 Level of dependency in a syntactic treeLet us introduce one of the examples whichshow the necessity of further extension of the scalein the SSK.
Consider the following sample of text- Hoskovee (1989):Ex.l:(1) At the railway station I saw a dog with longears.
(2) It was funny to observe them dangling in thewind.
(3) I wondered how he happened to get there.According to our Coling '90 paper there is nodistinction in the SSK between dog and ears.
Bothare contained in focus of (1), which means that heyhave the highest degree of salience in the nextsentence.
Such an account does not explain the fact,that the above introduced order of sentences iACIT.S DE COLING-92, N^NrEs, 23-28 ^O't~T 1992 l 2 8 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992possible and the order (1)-(3)-(2) does not constitutea coherent text - it seems to be impossible to referto ears from the third sentence using the personalpronoun them as a refering expression.The scheme of the syntactic tree as introducedabove offers us a key to the solution of thisproblem.
From this point of view there is adistinction between dog and ears in the sentence(1).
According to our scheme, the word dog standsin the position G(2), the word ears is in the positionG(6).
Both are contextually non-bound.Thus, examples along this line seem to suggestthat the modified SSK has to take into account hedistinction between immediate members of arespective verb frame and words which areembedded on a deeper level of the syntactic tree.2.2 Contextual boundness and non-boundnessThe distinction between contextually bound andnon-bound elements is also significant.
Let usconsider the following example from Hoskovec(1989):Ex.2:(4) At the railway station I saw their dog.
(5) I realized they would look for him the wholeafternoon.
(6) I wondered how he happened to get there.Although this sample text seems to have thesame distribution of pronouns as (1)-(3), thedifference between the two texts shows when wechange the order of sentences to (4)-(6)-(5).
In thelatter case, the change of the order is possible .Since the sentences (1) and (4) differ only incontextual non-boundness of long ears vs.contextual boundness of their, respectively, bothexpressions being on the second level ofdependency, we conclude that the distinctionbetween contextual boundness/nonboundness of thenodes in the syntactic tree of the sentence isimportant for the resolution of anaphora and,therefore, must be captured by the new version ofSSK.2.3 Syntactic associationsThe notion of syntactic associations isintroduced by means of slightly modified examplesfound in technical texts.
Let us start with thefollowing sample text:Ex.3:(7) In the residence quarter of Brno it is possible tofind a villa of professor Sehmidt.
(8) It was built during the thirties.
(9) His other two hgat,S~ are to be found inOlomouc and Jihlava.In this case the assignment of him to itsantecedent is straightforward; although theexpression professor SchmMt is in the focus part of(7), it does not depend directly on the governingverb and, moreover, it is contextually non-bound.At the first sight this seems to be a counterexampleto the above introduced scheme of the role of CBand NB elements of a sentence, namely, to theimpossibility of referring to NB-nodes on thesecond level of dependency by means of personalpronouns across one embedded sentence (see Ex.
1).However, we believe that the differencebetween (1)-(2)-(3) and (7)-(8)-(9) lies in the fact,that his is in the third sentence accompanied by thefull noun reference to the v_~iLusing a similar word(house), which certainly influences the salience ofthe item professor Schmidt.
The structure of a nounphrase governed by villa in (7) is the same as thedependency structure of the noun phrase governedby ~ in (9), therefore also the salience of theitem professor Schmidt is evidently higher thanwithout that association.
We can support ourobservations with the modified example:Ex.4:(7) In the residence quarter of Brno it is possible tofind a v_illa of professor Schrnidt.
(8) It was built during the thirties.
(9a) He was known as a collector of paintings ofyoung local painters.In our opinion, the process of assigning theantecedent professor Schmidt to the referingexpression him is not as straightforward asin Ex.3;indeed, some of the hearers have difficulties withaccepting Ex.4 as a valid tgxt.The degree of the influence of syntacticassociations on anaphora resolution can vary fordifferent languages.
It is also clear that at least asm'all stock of related notions plays a very importantrole in this mechanism.
We will discuss theseproblems more in detail in the Sect.
4 of this paper,where we show the approach for a particularlanguage under consideration (Czech).2.4 TopologyWe can use Ex.3 to show another important factwhich has an influence on the reference assignment.The sentence (8) is a very simple one, in particular,it does not introduce any new element into the SSKexcept the word thirties.
The situation is verydifferent, if we replace (8) by (Sa):AcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 hOlY 1992 1 2 9 PROC, OV COLINGO2.
NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992Ex.5:(7) In the residence quarter of Brno it is possible tofind a villa of professor Schmidt.
(Sa) The buildin~ was built by a group of architectsin late thirties.
(9) His other two ~ are to be found inOlomouc and Jihlava.The reference by him in (9) is in this case stillpossible, but the text is not as clear as in Ex.3.
Anyother new element in (Sa) makes the referencealmost unclear.Supported by this observation, we believe thatalso the linear distance between an antecedent anda refering expression i fluences to some extent hesalience of the referred item.It is clear that the function which expresses thedegree of salience is not continuous.
The end of theparagraph seems to have a strong effect: it leads toa drop of the salience of almost all possibleantecedents except br those the activation of whichhas been established by repeated mentioning in theprevious paragraph.
The exact values of thefunction are now the objects of intensiveinvestigation.
We discuss some results of ourinvestigations into this problem in Sect.
4 below.2.5 Existence of competitorsThe last feature which is considered in oursystem is the role of competing elements.
We candemonstrate the problem by means of a slightchange of (8a), which introduces a new competingelement into the text:Ex.6:(7) In the residence quarter of Brno it is possible tofind a ~ of professor Schmidt.
(Sb) The building was built by architect Hovorka inlate thirties.
(9) His other two ~ are to be found inOlomouc and Jihlava.In this case professor Schmidt is no longeravailable as an antecedent for pronominal anaphoraSince architect Hovorka has a greater degree ofsalience and the same morphological categories.All previous examples how the necessity ofincluding into the evaluation procedure of the SSKnot only the notions of contextual boundness, butalso associations, complexity of the sentences andexistence/nonexistence of possible competitors.Their role in the evaluation procedure is describedmore in detail in the following paragraph.3.
THE GENERAL EVALUATING PROCEDUREBefore we start the explanation of ourevaluation procedure, we must make clear that werestrict ourselves in our considerations to thoseitems of knowledge (i.e.the mental representationsof the objects of the outer world), referred to in thesentence by noun or by a pronoun.
The startingconditions for the evaluating procedure are then asfollows:We assume that our procedure is a part of alarger complex system which is able to provide ourprocedure with the result of syntactico-semanticparsing of any sentence in the form of a dependencytree as a representation of the meaning of thesentence in the sense of Sgall, Haji~ov~l, Panevov~,(1986).
We do not assume the existence of anyspecial knowledge base, any semantic evaluationprocedure or semantic features present in thesyntactic tree.
For the time beeing we restrictourselves to those items (mental objects) that arerendered by nouns or pronouns.The SSK as a basic data structure can be viewedin our modified account as a set of items, whichrepresent all mental objects rendered by nouns orpronouns from the respective text.
Each data entryhas the form of an ordered quantuple:< LEX,MORPH,LAST,SYNT,OCCUR >,whereLEXrepresents he lexical value of the item;MORPHis a set of morphological characteristics ofthe word (e.g.
gender, number, etc.).
Thesecharacteristics are used in so-called morphologicalfilter, which filters out the impossible antecedents ofthe referring expression.LASTare the coordinates 'of the latest occurrenceof the word or of the pronominal reference to it.These coordinates are composed of the "surface"and "deep" part.
The "surface" coordinates containthe number of the sentence and a serial number ofthe node in the sentence structure and they serve asa basis for the "topological" part of the evaluationprocedure.The "deep" part contains the code for theposition of the word in the syntactic tree asintroduced above (G(i)).
This informationdetermines the contextual (non)boundness of theword.ACRES DE COL/NG-92.
NAM'ES, 23-28 Ao(rr 1992 !
3 0 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28.
1992SYNTcontains the data about the syntacticstructure of the sentence where the respective LEXwas mentioned for the last time.
The structure isrepresented only partially, by means of pointers,which point to the governing node and also to alldependent odes if they are contained in the SSK.This system of syntactic pointers erves as a basicdata structure for the simple handling ofassociations.OCCURis a pair of integers which represent thenumber of occurrences of the given item both fromthe beginning of the text and from the beginning ofthe paragraph.The algorithm processes the given text sentenceby sentence.
It receives the dependency tree of anew sentence from the syntactico-semanticalpreprocessor, together with the list of all thepronominal referring expressions contained in thesentence.
Each referring expression in this listcarries the information about its position in thesentence (the same as LAST) and about its form(weak or strong pronoun, etc.).
Using SSK, thealgorithm finds the antecedents for all referringexpressions.
Afterwards, it changes the degrees ofsalience of the items in the SSK and reads the nextsentence from the input.Having stated the general idea of the algorithm,we can describe the evaluation process in moredetail as follows:3.1 Algorithm:(i) Read an input (the syntactic structure of the newsentence and the list of referring expressions).
Forevery referring expression R~, i= 1 ,..,k in the list dothe following (preserve the order of the referringexpressions with regard to hierarchy ofcommunicative dynamism in case that the sentencecontains more than one referring expression):a) Use the morphemic filter to filter out all unitsfrom the SSK which cannot be considered aspossible antecedents of the refering expression 1~.b) Apply the evaluating function E(w) to allpossible ~ 2 kantecedents Wi,Wi,.. .
,Wi i and sort them accordingto the obtained results from the most probableantecedent W~i i to the least probable antecedent W~.
i.
(ii) For all referring expressions P~ and all results ofJevaluation W~, i=l, .
.
,k; j=l,..,l~ find the bestsolution.
'Ihus we are lot~king for the optimalsolution of anapbora for the sentence as a whole,since some "best" solution tbr the particularexpression can block successful referenceassignment for other refering expressions (Cf.examples in Haji~ovg, Kubo/'t, Kubofi, 1990).Generally, this is a computationally expensivesolution but ill practice the nnmber of referingexpression and possible antecedents i stronglylimited and, therefore, this phase does not imposea serious restriction on the performance of thealgorithm.
(iii) Update the data in the SSK- change OCCUR if the item was mentioned orreffered to in the current sentence- add items mentioned for the first time into theSSK- remove all the items with degrees of saliencefunction smaller than some constant THRESHOLD(which may vary with respect to thetype of the text and the particular language).The function of salience has the form:pS(w) = O/(N*(N-L + 1)),where w is the item of SSK under consideration,O is the number of occurrences of the item in thegiven paragraphN is the serial number of the current utterance (inthe given paragraph)L is the serial number of the utterance in theparagraph where this item was mentionedfor the last time3.2 The general evaluating functionThis function is essential for the whole processof anaphora resolution.
Also, it is considerablymore dependent on the language under considerationthan all the other parts of the process.
For thisreason we have divided its description into twoparts, in this section we describe the function onlygenerally.
The method of costomizing all theconstants according to the needs of a particularlanguage (in our case Czech) is described in Sect.4 below.The basic form of the function is:E(W) = ~ (ci* f~},i - Iwhere f~ is a function describing the value of thefactoqq is a constant expressing file weight of thefactoqACRES DE COLING-92.
NAN,S, 23-28 AO't3"r 1992 1 3 1 Prtoc.
or COLING-92.
NANI'ES.
AUG. 23-28.
19924.
THE METHOD OF THE CUSTOMIZATIONOF THE EVALUATING FUNCTIONIn this paragraph we want to show themethod chosen for finding the values of the ~, and f~for the particular language.4.1 First step of the method is to find the form off~ for all factors taken into account.
All functionsshould have a common value range.
The balance ofinfluence of all factors is achieved by the help ofconstants % After a complex examination of Czechtexts (with a special stress on technical texts) wehave come to the following results:a) Contextual boundness - the word w is eitherbound or nonbound, thereforeft(w) = 100 < = > w is contextuallyboundf~(w) = 0 < => w is contextuallynonboundb) Underlying structure - for the definition of thisfunction it is necessary to extend our schema fromthe paragraph 2 deeper than to the second level ofdependency.
The rule for the extension is thefollowing:All deeper levels consist only of nodesbelonging to groups G(3-6) so that any governingnode in the topic governs nodes GO) and G(4), thegoverning nodes from focus govern nodes G(5) andG(6).The function f:has been assigned the following(entative forms:f2(w) = 70 for w in a position of G(1)f2(w) = 100 for w in a position of G(2)f2(w) = 50 for w in a position of G(3)f2(w) = 0 for w in a position of G(4)f2(w) = 50 for w in a position of G(5)f2(w) = 30 for w in a position of G(6)The motivation for this distribution of valuescan be found in Hoskovec (1989).c) Associations - if the word wl depends directly onthe word w:, it shares a part of the value of E(wz).We do not restrict the dependency only to theimmediate dominance, but the words on a deeperlevel share less of the value E(wz).
We also takeinto account that one word can be in principleassociated with more than one other member of theSSK.
Therefore the form of the function f3 is thefollowing:wt .
.
.
.
w, are the governing words of w so thatwi are ordered according to the syntactic level (w, isthe immediate governor of w)f3(w) = ~ (1/2 i) * E(w.)i-1d) Linear distance - this function is quite simple, itis only necessary to count the linear distance of wand the possible refering expression.
The countingis easy - we count only the members of SSK.The function is simple:,f4(w) = 100/((In d)+d)where d is a distance between the word w anda possible refering expression.4.2 There is of course a significant differencebetween the way of computing f~ and % The latteris a constant, which describes the role of particularfactors in the respective language.For the evaluation of weights cl we use thefollowing method:In real texts we look for pieces of text withcomplicated referring structure.
Any such text ismodified by adding or removing items.
The resultsare given to a group of randomly chosen nativespeakers, who should mark the understandability ofall texts.
One example of this method is given hereby the modification of sentences (8) and (9) in Ex.4 and 5 above.The basic constraint on ?, is described in thefollowing equation:~cl  = 1i - Iwhich means that every c~ describes the role offactor i in percents.
This constraint serves for thepurpose of keeping the balance between particularfactors under control.
It is also useful in the case ofsome future extension of the whole system byadding new factors.There can of course be any other constraintsaccording to the needs of a particular language.
Wedo not have any additional constraint for Czech inthe moment.The work on collecting material for the tests onc~ is now in progress.
The following constants werechosen as initial values :- contextual boundness and non-boundness 0.25- syntactic structure of the sentence 0.25- associations 0.25- linear distance 0.255.
CONCLUSIONThe previous analysis has been done for Czech.We are far from claiming that every language wouldACT~ DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOU'r 1992 I 3 2 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992reflect he same relations between factors which canhelp to solve the pronominal anaphora.
We haveonly tried to show how certain factors can result ina more sophisticated treatment of anaphora in NLP.Our mechanism is designed as an open system,the nature of all functions mentioned here enables toadd any number of other phenomena which can helpto solve the problem of anaphora re.solution.Our approach is substantially different from theapproach of e.g.
Alshawi (1987) or Rich,Luper-Foy (1987).
Our system does not need anyknowledge base except the special thesaurus ofrelated notions.
It would be very interesting tocombine our approach and the approach of Alshawiin some experimental NLP system.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTthe work on this paper was carried outunder the project of the IBM Academic Initiative.REFERENCESHyian Alshawi (1987): Memory and context forlanguage interpretation, CambridgeUniversity Press.Eva Haji~ov;f, Petr Kubo~ and Vladislav Kuboi~(1990): Hierarchy of Salience andDiscourse Analysis and Production.
In:Proceedings of Coling '90, HelsinkiEva Haji~ov~t, Tom~ Hoskovec and Petr Sgall (inpress), Discourse Modelling Based onHierarchy of Salience; to appear in PragueStudies in Mathematical Linguistics 11Eva Haji~xjv~l, Jarka Vrbovlt (1982): On the Role ofthe Hierarchy of Activation in theProcesses of Text Understanding.
In:Proceedings of COLING 82, Ed.
byJ.Horeck~, Amsterdam.Tomg Hoskovec (1989): An Activation BasedModel of Discourse ( Towards a negativedelimitation of cognitive problems), InProceedings of the International Workshop qheNotion of Cognitive in Linguistics, Sofia, Svyat- Benjamins (to appear).
Elaine Rich, SusannLuper-Foy (1987): An Architecture f o rAnaphora Resolut ion,  MCC TechnicalReport Number ACA-HI-393-87,Petr Sgall (1979): Towards a Definition of Focusand Topic, Prague Bull.
of MathematicalLinguistics 31,3-25;32,1980,24-32Petr Sgall, Eva Haji~ovii, Jarmila Panevov~t (1986):The Meaning of the Sentence in ItsSemantic and Pragmatic Aspects, DordrechtPrague.AfrlT.
:s DE COL1NG-92.
NANTES.
23-28 AOt'rl' 1992 1 3 3 t)ROC.
OF COLlNG-92.
NANTES.
AUG. 23-28.
1992
