Generation of Extended Bilingual Statistical ReportsL.
Iordanskaja, M. Kim, R. Kittredge, B. Lavoie and A. Polgu~reCoGenTex Inc.810 rue Champagneur, suite 210Montreal H2V 4S3, Quebec, Canada1 IntroductionDuring tim past few years we liave been concernedwith developing models for the automatic planningand realization of report texts wittlin technical sub-languages of English and French.
Since 1987 we havebeen implementing Meaning-Text language models(MTMs) \[6, 7\] for the task of realizing sentencesfrom semantic specifications that are output by atext planner.
A relatively complete MTM implemen-tation for English was tested in the domain of oper-ating system audit summaries in tile Gossip projectof 1987-89 \[3\].
At COLING-gO a report was given onthe fully operational FoG system for generating ma-rine forecasts in both English and French at weathercentres in Eastern Canada \[1\].
The work reportedon here concerns the experimental generation of ex-tended bilingual summaries of Canadian statisticaldata.
Our first focus has been on labour force sur-veys (LFS), where an extensive corpus of publishedreports in each language is available for empiricalstudy.
Tire current LFS system has built on the ex-perience of the two preceding systems, but goes be-yond either of them 1.
Iu contrast to FoG, but similarto Gossip, LFS uses a semantic net representation fsentences as input to the realization process.
LikeGossip, LFS also makes use of theme/theme con-straints to help optimize lexical and syntactic hoicesduring sentence realizatiou.
But in contrast o Gos-sip, which produced only English texts, LFS is bilin-gual, making use of the conceptual level of repre-sentation produced by the planner as an interlinguafrom which to derive the linguistic semantic repre-sentations for texts in the two languages indepen-dently.
Hence the LFS interlingua is much "deeper"than FoG's deep-syntactic interlingua.
This allowsus to iutroduce certain semantic differences betweenEnglish and I,?ench sentences that we observe in nat-ural "translation twin" texts.1The LFS Bystem is being developed by CoGenTex Inc.under contract 36902-O-0749/Ol-XAF wich CommunicationsCanada, Canadian Workplace Automation Research Centre.Tim first four authors have current academic affiliations withthe Universlt6 de Montr~al.
Polgu6re is now at the NationalUniversity of Singapore.LFS is based on a much more detailed text planningprocess than was attempted earlier, and results intexts of much greater length and complexity.
Forexample, sentence order within certain parts of sta-tistical texts depends on data salience, therefore re-quiring locally dynamic text planning.
Text plan-ning also includes tests that allow for appropriateuse of certain quantifier expressions (e.g., all, mosO,evaluative words such as also and only, and intra-sentential pronominalization.LFS also incorporates some substantial extensionsin our use of the Meaning-Text framework.
First,it makes more use of lexical functions (ef.\[8\]), themechanism in MTMs that allows computation of ap-propriate collocations and semautieally related lex-emes needed ill paraphrasing and ill conflict resolu-tion during generation.
Second, the grammar is moreextensive, covering important ypes of conjunctionand ellipsis.Generation in the domain of employment statisticsis not new.
Roesner's Semtex system \[10\] producedGerman (and later, English) summaries of such datathat are remarkably similar in style as well as coutentto our own.
The difference lies in our use of a pow-erflfl linguistic model that promises to simplify theproblem of scaling up the generator to more complexand varied texts, or extend them to other varieties oftext.
Furthermore, the LFS project is using feedbackfrom domain experts to refine tile rules nsed in bothtext planning and realization.2 Text Planning for StatisticalReportsOur approach to planning statistical reports is sim-ilar to that used on tile Gossip project \[2\].
A "con-ceptual frame" tree schema is mstantiated with inputdata to provide an initial characterization f the in-tended content of the reports.
Input data for theemployment domain is in the form of relational ta-AcrEs DE COLING-92.
NANTES.
23-28 not~q" 1992 1 0 I 9 I)ROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES.
AUG. 23-28.
1992bles which provide numerical values for employment,unemployment, participation rate, etc., broken downby age, sex, region and industry, for the current re-porting period (e.g., month), as well as for previ-ous comparison periods (e.g., preceding month, oneyear ago, etc.).
The instantiated tree gives a prelim-inary hierarchical structure for the future text, andprovides a framework for further processing on thecontent to determine the details of text structure.For example, comparisons ofemployment changes invarious labour force groups will lead to ordering mes-sages (future clauses) so as to highlight he most sig-nificant changes.
The tree structure is traversed andmodified as a part of this process.
The conceptualtext tree also carries annotations of theme and themespecifications which will constrain the set of possibletexts which can be derived from it.An important part of text planning is the identifica-tion of messages which can be grouped together intostructures which will give rise to single sentences.This includes conjoining two messages with identicaltheme to give marked structures that will producelinguistic onjunction and subject pronominalizationlater as in:(1) Employment increased by 20,000 among womenwhile it decreased slightly among men.Conceptual conjunction includes checking and mark-ing similarities in thematic elements that may laterlead to ellipsis, as in (2), with the possible introduc-tion of lexical functions uch as in (3) 2.
(2) Employment increased by 5000 in Manitoba, by10,800 in Alberta and by 15,000 in Ontario.
(3) For the week ended November 18, 1989, the sea-sonally adjusted level of employment was estimatedat 12,518,000, up 32,000from October.It has been noticed \[5\] that certain types of reporttexts have complex internal dependencies that putspecial demands on the planning mechanism used.In particular, top-down expansion of rhetorical oper-ators is inadequate for generating statistical reportsin our domain.
Our planning approach, by makinguse of the power of arbitrary tests and operationson tree schemata, allows us to adequately representthe cross-serial dependencies found among the piecesof content of these reports.
However, a more gen-eral, but appropriately constrained language for re-port planning seems to be a desirable goal for futureresearch.ZThe lexeme up is the value of tile lexical function Adv 1applied to the verb ir.crea#e.3 Interlingual RepresentationPublished bilingual reports in our domain occasion-ally exhibit deep differences between correspondingEnglish and French sentences, as in (4a) and (4b):(4a) Employment remained virtually unchanged.
(4b) L'emploi a pen vari4.\["Employment changed little.
"\]Not only are the surface syntactic structures incom-parable in this case, but they cannot be easily relatedon the level of linguistic semantics, because their se-mantic predicates are dissimilar.
We have thereforechosen to use a conceptua l  interlingua (the outputof the text planning process) in order to derive sepa-rate semantic net representations of the sentences ineach language.
Hence the sentences (4a) and (4b) arederived from non-isomorphic Meaning-Text seman-tic networks, which allow us to fully represent thetwo languages' different '~iewpoints" on the sameconceptual material.4 Realizer DesignGrammatical realization in the LFS system is theprocess by which the semantic nets produced by theplanner for the incipient sentences are converted intosurface sentences of each language.
Our realizer forEnglish is based largely on the general Meaning-Textsentence realizer used in Gossip, with some addi-tions to cover structures found in statistical texts.A comparable realizer for French has been built forLFS.
As in the case of Gossip, we use four main lin-guistic levels of representation between conceptualstructures and texts: semantic nets (SemR), deepsyntactic dependency trees (DSyntR), surface syn-tactic dependency trees (SSyntR) and morphologi-cal strings (MorphR).
For each language, the firstlinguistic operation requires earching the semanticnet for a given sentence to determine the commu-nicatively dominant node.
This search is constrainedby the theme/theme specifications which the SemRinherits from the conceptual structure (see \[9, 3\]).The second operation consists of "replacing" sin-gle or complex (configurations of) meauing-bearingnodes in the semantic network by actual lexemesof the language, and replacing semantic features onthose nodes by grammatical features which will beattached to the nodes of the future deep-syntactictree.
These operations lead to a reduced semamtic graph (RSemR), which is intermediate betweenSemR and DSyntR.
In fact, the SemR is not modi~ACIES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 ^ot~r 1992 I 0 2 0 PROC.
or COLING-92, Nhtcrns, AUG. 23-28, 1992fled, but rather it is used as a blueprint for buildingthe RSemR, just as each subsequent representationis built by mapping rules from its ancestor represen-tation.The production of the DSyntR tree out of theRSemR, called "arborization", entails the mappingof predicate-argument relations to deep syntactic re-lations using information about potential dominantnodes of tim RSemR and grammatical features.The SSyntR is built by mapping deep-syntacticnodes and relations into their surface-syntactic coun-terparts.
Single DSyntR nodes corresponding tophrasemes (i.e., locutions) give rise to syntactic sub-trees in SSyntR, and some grammatical lexemes areintroduced, including auxiliary verbs, articles andsyntactically motivated prepositions.The next mapping, to MorpbR structure, determinesword order and all syntactically motivated morpho-logical features.
A final operation produces actualtext by computing the final (graphical) wordformsbased on the morphological features attached to lex-emes in MorphR.5 Lexical FunctionsThe sublanguage of statistical summary reportsshows a certain amount of variation in the syntacticstructure and \[exieal choices used to express a givencontent.
We have used lexical functions to imple-ment this paraphrastic variation in a systematic waywithin our Meaning-Text models, much as was donein Gossip \[3\].
Briefly stated, lexical functions (LFs)can be considered abstract meanings which have dif-ferent lexical values depending on their argumentlexemes.
LFs provide a way of delaying some id-iosyncratic lexical realizations until after major syn-tactic choices have beeu made.
They also allow usto formulate very general paraphrase rules.Our statistical reports, with their emphasis on nu-merical changes and comparisons of change, pro-vide an excellent opportunity to use lexical flmc-tions, such as Magn ("intensifying" word), S O (ac-tion nominal) and Oper  I (agent-oriented supportverb).
For example, sentence (6) can be calculatedto be a paraphrase of (5):(5) Employment decreased sharply in October.
(6) Employment showed asharp decrease in October.A general paraphrase rule states that a verbal exeme(here, decrease), can be paraphrased by a syntacticconstruction where the new verb (i.e., show) is thevalue of Oper  I operating on the nominalizatiou (i.e.,S0) of the old verb.
This computation, carried outby successively ooking up LF values in argumentword lexieal entries, derives the new verb show byfunctional composition.
In the derived paraphrasesentence (6) this new verb takes as its syntactic ob-ject the nominalization of the old verb.
In a separateoperation which if factored out of the paraphrase op-eration, the lexical value of the intensifier sharp iscomputed via the lexical function Magn operatingon lexeme decrease.
It is simpler to delay its evalu-ation until after the change in grmnmatieal categoryof the head word.
The paraphrase rule which re-lates the two verbal constructions of (5) and (6) canbe stated using only lexieal functions, lexical class(part-of-speech) symbols and grammatical relations,without reference to specific lexical |tents.In addition to the above "well-known" lexical func-tions, our domain also makes use of Syn (synonym),Ant iMagn (diminutive modifier), Locin (locativepreposition), Adv 1 (locative adverb) and severalmore "exotic" ones.
Most LFs used in our systemare introduced uring the mapping from RSemR toDSyntR.
Exceptions include Syn, which is used dur-ing reduction of SemR to RSemR.
When there aretwo semantic nodes with identical lexemic meanings,the realizer uses Syn to lexicalize one differentlyfrom the other by finding a synonym.6 Implementat ion and FutureDirect ionsThe LFS system is implemented in Quintus Prologon Sun 4 workstations.
Adaptations to several spe-cific varieties of employment reports have been car-ried out, including the multi-paragraph general sum-mary reports for English and French, given belowin ?6.1 and ?6.2 respectively.
The approach out-lined here is now being extended to produce othervarieties of statistical reports, dealing with differentkinds of data (e.g., retail trade summaries).
The userinterface, which currently allows various choices fromamong a set of options, is being made more flexibleand dynamic by tying tile choices more directly totile tree schemata that guide the planning process.Until now, LFS paraphrasing capability has been im-plemented only for eases where variation is needed toavoid repetition within a given sentence.
The nextstep, now in preparation, is to enforce variation overlonger stretches of text such as whole paragraphs.Ac'r~ DE COLING-92.
NANTES, 23-28 AOt~T 1992 1 0 2 1 PRoc.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES, Auo.
23-28, 19926.1 Sample English output 6.2 Corresponding French outputCOMMENTARYOverviewEst imates  for November 1989 from Statistics Canada's  LabnurForce Survey show th~,t the seasonally adjusted level of employ-ment  r~ae by 32000 and that  the level of unemployment inc losedby 30000.
The unemployment  rate increased by 0.2 to 7.6.EmploymentFor the week ended November 3, 1989, the seasonally adjustedlevel of employment  ~ est imated at 12568000, up 32000 fromOctober.
The increase was concentrated among women aged 25and over.
The  employment / populat ion ratio remained virtuallyunchanged ( 62.1 ).Employment  among women aged 25 and over rose by 44000 andtheir  employment  / populat ion ratio increased by 0.5 to 52.3Employment  among men aged 25 and over fell by 12000 and theiremployment / population ratio decreased by 0.3 to 72.5.Part-time employment increased by 25000.
The increase wasevenly distributed between men and women.Full-time employment remained virtually unchanged.
An  increaseamong women was offset by a decrease among men,The level of employment  fell by 10000 in agriculture, by 12000 int ransportat ion,  communicat ion and other util it ies and by 12000in pr imary industr ies other than agriculture.
The level of employ-ment  rose by 68000 in services and by 20000 in trade.
The  levelof employment  remained virtually unchanged in the other sectors.The  level of employment  rose by 11000 in Quebec, by 8000 inAlberta,  by 6000 in Brit ish Columbia and by 0000 in Ontario.
Thelevel of employment  remained virtually unchanged in the otherlectors.Unemployment  and Part ic ipat ion RateThe a~aaonally adjusted level of unemployment  was est imated at1032000 for November 1989, up 30000 from October.
The un-employment  rate rose by 0.2 to 7.0 and the part ic ipat ion rateincreased by 0.3 to 07.2.The increase in unemployment  was concentrated among men aged25 and over.Unemployment  among men aged 25 and over increased by 24000while unemployment  remained virtually unchanged among womenaged 25 and over.The unemployment  rate among men aged 15 to 24 increaLed by0.7 to 12,9.The  part ic ipat ion rate among men aged 15 to 24 increased by ft.5to 73.4 and the part ic ipat ion rate remained virtually unchangedamong women aged 15 to 24.The  seasonally adjusted level of unemployment remained virtu-ally unchanged in moat provinces.
The  level of unemploymentincrem~d only in Ontar io  ( + 24000 )COMMENTAIREApe~uLea est imations ti~g*es de Penqu6te de Stat ist ique Canada sur lapopulat ion active pour  novembre 1989 indiquent que le niveaud~saisonnaliad de I 'emploi a augment~ de 32000 et que le niveaudu ch6mage a augmentd e 30000.
Le taux  de ch6mage a aagmentdde 0.2 it 7.6.EmploiPour  la semaine ~ terminant  le 3 novembre 1989, le niveaud6aaisonnalia~ d~emploi eat est imd it 12568000, en hauaae de 32000par  rapport  /L octobre, La hausae a pr incipalement touchd leafamines de 25 ans et plus.
Le rapport  emploi  / populat ion n 'aprat iquement  pas vari6 ( 02.1 ).L'emploi chez lea famines de 25 ass et plus a augment~ de 44000et le rapport  emploi / populat ion chez celles de 25 ass et plus aaugment~ de 0.5 /L 52.3.L'emploi chez lea hommes de 25 ass et plus a diminud de 12000et le rapport  emploi / populat ion chez ceux de 25 ass et plus abaissd de 0.3 ~ 7Z5.L'emploi a temps partiel a augmentd e 25000, La hauase a'~tait~galement r6part ie entre lea hommes et lea femmea.L'emploi it temps plein n 'a  prat iquement  pan vari6.
Une haussechez lea famines a 6td compensde par  une balsas chez lea hommes.De niveau d'emploi  a diminu6 de 10000 dana le secteur del 'agriculture, de 12000 dana celui des t ransports ,  communicat ionset autres Jervices publics et de 12000 dana lea industries pr imai~aautres que l 'agrieulture.
Le niveau d~emploi a augment~ de 68000dana lea industries de services et de 20000 dane le aecteur du com-merce.
Le niveau d'emploi  n 'a  prat iquement  pas vari6 dons leaautres secteura.Le niveau d'emploi  a augment6 de 11000 au Quebec, de 8000 enAlberta,  de 6000 en Colombie-Br i tannique et de 5000 en Ontario.Le niveau d'emploi  n~a prat iquement  pan vari6 dana lea autresprovinces.Ch6mage et taux d'activit6Le niveau ddsaisonnalia~ de chTmage eat entire6 it 1032000 pournovembre 1989, en hauaae de 30000 par  rapport  it octobre.
Letaux de ch6mage a augmentd e 0.2 it 7.6 et le taux d*activit6 aaugment~ de 0.3 A 67.2.La hausse du ch6mage a pr inc ipalement touch6 lea hommes de 20ann et plus.Le chSmage cheg lea hommes de 20 ann et plus a augment6 de24000 slots que le chTmage n 'a  prat iquement  pas varid chez leafemmes de 25 ann et plus.Le taux de chTmage chez lea hommes de 15 ~ 24 ass a augmentdde 0.7 it 12.9.Le taux  d'act ivit6 chez les hommes de 15 ik 24 ass a augmentd e0.5 it 73.4 et le taux d'act ivitd n 'a  prat iquement  pan vari~ chez leafamines de 15 /t 24 mls.Le niveau ddsailonnalia~ de ch6mage n 'a  prat iquement  pas vari6dana la plupart  des provinces.
Le niveau de chSmage a augment~aeulement en Ontar io  ( q- 24000 ).AC l~ DE COL ING-92 ,  NANTES, 23-28  AOfff 1992 I 0 2 2 PROC.
OF COL ING-92 ,  NANTES, AUG. 23-28 ,  1992References\[1\] Bourbeau, L., D. Carcagno, E. Goldberg, R.Kittredge and A. Polgu~re (1990) "BilingualGeneration of Weather Forecasts in an Opera-tions Environment", Proceedings of the 13th In.ternational Conference on Computational Lin-guistics, vol.3, pp.
318-320.\[2\] Careagno D. and L. Iordanskaja (1989) "Con-tent Determination and Text Structuring inGOSSIP", Extended Abstracts of the Second Eu-ropean Workshop on Natural Language Genera-lion, Edinburgh.\[3\] Iordanskaja, L., R. Kittredge and A. Polgubre(1991) "Lexical Selection and Paraphrase in aMeaning-Text Generation Model" in NaturalLanguage Generation in Artificial Intelligenceand Computational Linguistics (C. Paris, W.Swartout and W. Mann, eds.
), Kluwer Aca-demic Publishers, pp.293-312.\[4\] Kittredge R.., L.Iordanskaja nd A. Polgubre(1988) "Multi-Lingual Text Generation and tileMeaning-Text Theory", Proc.
of the 2rid Inter-national Conf.
on Theoretical nd Methodolog-ical Issues in Machine Translation of NaturalLanguages, Carnegie-Mellon University.\[5\] Kittredge 1%, T. Korelsky and O. Rambow(1991) "On the Need for Domain Communi-cation Knowledge", Computational lnte!hgencc,7(4): 305-314.\[6\] Mel'~.uk I.
(1981) "Meaning-Text Models", An-nual Review of Anthropology, vol.10, pp.27-62.\[7\] Mel'/!uk I. and N. Pertsov (1987) Surface Syntaxof English, Benjaanins, Amsterdam.\[8\] Mel'~uk I. and A. Polgu6re (1987) "A FormalLexicon in the Meaning Text Theory (or, howto do lexica with words)", Computational Lin-guistics, 13(3-4): 261-275.\[9\] Polgu~re, A.
(1990) Stracturalion el mise en jeuprocgdurale d'un modkle linguistique ddclaratifdans un cadre de gdndration de texte, Ph.D. the-sis, Universit6 de Montr6al.\[10\] Roesner, D. (1987) "The Automated NewsAgency: SEMTEX - A Text Generator for Ger-man" Natural Language Generation: New Re-sults in Artificial Intelligence, Psychology andLinguistics (G. Kempen, ed.
), Martinus NijhoffPublishers, pp.133-148.ACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AO~' 1992 1 0 2 3 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992
