SHAKE-AND-BAKE TRANSLAT IONP.
Wh i te lockSharp  Laborator ies  of  Europe  Ltd.Oxford  Science ParkOxford ,  U.K.pete@uk.ac .ox .prg1.
In t roduct ionIn this paper, I describe a view of MachineTranslation (MT) that promises radical newsolutions to some of the problems of structuralapproaches such as transfer and interlingua.
Thenew approach is based on a lexicalist view ofgrammar in which lexical items are multi-dimensional signs.
Translation equivalence isdefined between bags (multi-sets) of lexical items.Source language analysis determines the bags onone side of the equivalence, and Shake-and-Bakegeneration combines the corresponding TL signsfreely according to the grammar of the targetlanguage.
The sharing of variables between thelogical forms of the signs in the two languagesrealises the necessary semantic onstraints.
It iseasy to formulate statements of equivalencebetween expressions having widely divergentsyntactic or logical structures, and apply thisknowledge decidably for translation in eitherdirection.2.
S t ruc ture -Based  MTPerhaps the fundamental question in MTsystem design is the form in which informationabout the source text is passed to generation.
Suchinformation must include anything relevant fortranslation, but must be expressed in a form thatgeneration can be guaranteed tomake sense of.
Theanswer therefore has important implications forthe extent to which the grammars of thelanguages in the system need be specifically tunedto one another.
The ideal is a completely modularapproach, with no influence of one monolingualgrammar on another - modularity ensures that asystem can be easily extended to new languagesand language pairs.
A satisfactory answer shouldalso provide for reversibility, so that a singlemodular description of a language may beexploited by both parsing and generationalgorithms.The standard assumption is that all textualinformation is organised into a sequence of one ormore linguistic or logical structures.
Transfer-based MT (e.g.
Vauquois and Boitet (1985), Nagaoet al (1985), Alshawi et al (1991), AUegranza etal.
(1991) presupposes a language-pair specificmodule that transforms a structure which is theoutput of analysis into one that is the input togeneration.
An interlingual approach (e.g.Uchida and Sugiyama (1980), Lytinen and Shank(1982), R6sner (1986), Nirenburg et al (1991)) ischaracterised by the assumption that the outputof analysis and the input to generation areisomorphic structures.The notion of a structure which carries all theinformation pertinent to translation is common toboth transfer and interlingual approaches.
In thecase of transfer, this is normally a syntacticdependency structure nriched with various otherrelevant information.
Since the syntacticstructures of t ranslat ional ly  equivalentexpressions (TLEs) may differ in many ways,transfer comprises a complex set of operationsintended to transform source into target structures.If generation is to be under the control of the samegrammatical knowledge as analysis, then theoutput of transfer from L to L' must correspond to apossible output from the analysis of someexpression in L'.
Unfortunately, the only way ofachieving this is by careful hand-crafting of thetransfer grammars.
Furthermore, since theinvocation of transfer operations is controlled bythe structure of the source text, it is problematic tostate structural transformations in a declarative,bidirectional manner.The interlingual approach is seen by itsadvocates as the solution to this sort of problem.An appropriate system of semantic representationis specified, with the assumption that TLEs willmap to identical expressions of such a system.
Butas Ramsay (1991) points out, only a fraction of thepossible sentences of a semantic representationlanguage will correspond directly to naturallanguage xpressions.
There is ample evidencethat the expressions of different naturallanguages may map to different subsets of therepresentation language.
In particular, TLEs maybe assoc iated with d ist inct  semant icrepresentations (cf.
the subset problem ofLandsbergen, 1987).
At minimum, equivalentwords may have overlapping or properlysubsuming senses rather than identical senses (seee.g Tsujii and Fujita (1991)), but more radical,structural differences are commonplace.
Even ifTLEs map to logically equivalent expressions, theAcI~ DE COLING-92.
NANTES.
23-28 AoI~rr 1992 7 8 4 PRec.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES.
AUG. 23.28.
1992inference needed to compute one from the other isclearly undecidable in the general case for logicsrich enough to represent linguistic meaning(Shieber, 1988), and intractable even in thes implest  cases, with associat iv i ty andcommutativity of conjunction (Calder et al 1989).Heuristics to guide such inference can only bespecific to the languages in the system, since it isthese which determine the logical forms thatactually occur.
In this way, the functions oftransfer merely devolve to analysis andgeneration, making the content of each grammardependent on that of the other languages in thesystem.
This weakens the standard argument forthe interlingual approach, i.e.
that the additionof new languages i facilitated by the absence ofcomponents specific to language pairs.In any approach to translation, it is necessaryto state heuristic information concerning thedifferences in structure between TLEs.
In transfersystems this is done explicitly, in interlingualsystems it is implicit.
I have suggested that ininterlingual systems the need for such informationhas an adverse effect on the independence ofdifferent grammars.
In multi l ingual transfersystems, the need for minimal transfer (asadvocated within Eurotra (e.g.
Allegranza et al,1991)) also entails that the form of themonolingual components is sensitive to theparticular languages in the system (cf.
the notionof 'euroversar in Eurotra).
So neither structure-based approach leads to a system in which theknowledge pertinent to the different languages iclearly modularised.
The transfer approach ispreferable in this respect, but it suffers from thedifficulty of formulating declarative statementsof complex equivalences, such as those discussedby Kaplan et al (1989), Odijk (1989), Sadler et al(1989, 1990), Sadler and Thompson (1991).
In ~4below we will look at how such examples aretreated in the Shake-and-Bake approach.3.
Shake-and-Bake  Trans la t ionThe research described in this paper is anapplication to translation of a more generalconstraint-based view of language and languageprocessing (e.g.
Fenstad et al (1985), Pereira(1987), etc.).
In such a view, linguistic structure isdetermined by the accumulation of constraints ordescriptions, leading to compact and declarativegrammars.
In Shake-and-Bake MT, we takeadvantage of the partiality inherent in suchconstraints by radically underspecifying theinformation about the source text's structure thatis passed to generation.A precursor to this view can be identified in anapproach to MT described by Landsbergen (1987).He suggested that the bilingual knowledgeneeded to compute TLEs should be stated ascorrespondances between grammars rather thanbetween languages (that is, the inputs/outputs ofgrammars).
Translation equivalence is statedbetween the meaningful e ements of two granmmrs- in Landsbergen's Montagovian framework,between lexical entries and between grammarrules.
TLEs can be derived from equivalent lexicalentries by applying equivalent rules in the sameway.Rosetta's l inguistic basis in Montaguegrammar, with its stipulated pairings of syntacticand semantic rules, requires TLEs to haveisomorphic derivations.
For this reason, Rosetta isessentially an interlingual system, and the needfor the monolingual grammars to be attuned toeach other (as acknowledged by Landsbergen) hasadverse ffects on modularity.Suppose, however, that the only meaningfulelements of a grammar are its lexical items.
Infact, much recent linguistic work assumes exactlythis conception of a grammar - see e.g Uszkoreit(1986), Karttunen (1989), Pollard and Sag (1987),Zeevat et al (1987), Baschung et al (1987), Gunji(1987), Whitelock (1991b).
in these frameworks,lexical entries are signs, that is, theysimultaneously classify an expression in multipledimensions (orthographic, syntactic, semantic,etc.
), Signs are recursively combined by simplerules which do not themselves introduce lementsof meaning, but merely equate appropriatevariables in the logical forms of the combiningsigns.Therefore in such a grammar, the derivablelogical forms in a language are constructedentirely from templates introduced by lexicalitems.
We can represent sentence meaning as acombination of word meanings and a set ofequational constraints on LF variables asdetermined by derivation.
Now if we applyLandsbergen 's  methodo logy within thisframework, knowledge of bilingual equivalencemay be reduced to statements of equivalencebetween lexical items and their associatedmeanings.
Such equivalences may be many tomany, e.g.
{pay, attention, to} ~ {faire, attention,a}, and may include multiple instances of the samelexical item, e.g.
{as,as} m {aussi, que} 1.
In thegeneral case, therefore, equivalences are stated1 The bilingual exicon is also many-to-many inanother sense.
A single lexical item in L may appear inmany different equivalences with signs in L', and eachof the latter may appear in further equivalences withsigns in L.Acq~s DE COLING-92.
NANTES.
23-28 AO~q" 1992 7 8 5 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NAbrrES, AUG. 23-28, 1992between bags of lexical signs.
The representationof a sentence is a bag of (extensions of) lexicalitems, called its base.
Two bases are equivalent ifthey are the union of equivalent bags.
Twoexpressions are translation equivalents if theyhave derivations whose bases are equivalent bagsand which obey the same constraints on LFvariables.
There is no isomorphism requirement onTLEs - the grammars of the two languages havebeen effectively deeoupled.
(1) shows a Prolog definition of a simpletranslation algorithm based on these principles ( Iis the path constructor for feature structures, and< = > is graph unif icat ion (with pathevaluation)).
(i) t rans la te  (Text, T rans la t ion)  : -SourceS ign lo r th  <=> Text,parse  (SourceSign,  SLBag) ,SourceS ign l  sem <=> Sem,sko lemise  (Sem) ,equ iva lence  (SLBag, TLBag)  ,generate  (TLBag, TargetS ign)  ,TargetS ign \ ]  o r th  <=> Trans la t ion .translate can be glossed as follows: find thesign in SL whose orthography is the source stringText, i.e.
parse it to SourceSign,  recording inSLBag the basic expressions (iexical entries) usedin the parse.
Find the value of semantics inSourceSign and Skolemise the variables.
Theelements of SLBag will be extended by theirparticipation in the analysis stage.
Alternativeextensions may give rise to alternativeequivalences.
Compute the equivalent bag of TLexpressions.
Generate any TargetSign that can bebuilt from TLBag - its orthography is a possibleTranslation of Text.The sharing of those constraints which equateLF variables is realised by Prolog sharing betweenthe variables in Sere and the items in SLBag andTLBag.
The Skolemisation step which replaceseach distinct variable by a unique constant ensuresthat variables not equated in the course ofanalysis are prevented from being incorrectlyequated during generation.
Its ordering beforebilingual lookup realises the restriction that alexical entry is only applicable when its sourcelanguage constraints strictly subsume thoseestablished by parsing.A simple backtracking Shake-and-Bakegeneration algorithm is given in (2).
The bag isrepresented as a Prolog list.
(2) generate (Bag ,  TSign)  :-shake  and  bake  ( \[ \], TS ign,  Bag, \[ \] ) .% te rminat ionshake  and  bake  ( \[Sign\] , Sign, \[\], \[l).% sh i f tshake  and  bake  (P0, Sign,\[Next \] Bag0 \], Bag) : -push  (Next, P0, P) ,shake  and  bake  (P, Sign, Bag0, Bag) .% reduceshake  and  bake(P0 ,S ign ,Bag0,Bag)  :-pop  (First, P0, PI) ,de le te  (Second, P 1, P2 ) ,unordered_ru le  (Mom, F i rs t ,  Second)  ,push  (Mom, P2, P),shake  and  bake  (P, S ign ,Bag0,Bag)  .shake_and bake is a slight but significantvariation on a shift-reduce parser for binarygrammars.
In shift-reduce parsing, an element isrepeatedly taken from the front of the input,looked up in the lexicon, and the result pushedonto a stack.
The top two stack elements may becombined according to the grammar, the resultpushed back on the stack, and the procedurecalled recursively.
When the input has beenconsumed and the stack contains a single element,the parse terminates successfully.In shake_and_bake generation the role of theinput string is played by the bag of targetlanguage signs.
Unlike in parsing, the order ofitems in the bag is immaterial.
Any two signs maybe combined, with the combination determiningthe order of their orthographies in the result.
Aminimal complete algorithm requires randomaccess to the erstwhile stack for one of thearguments to a reduction.
This data structure isrepresented by the variables of the form P0, P1, P.The second element is not popped from the datastructure, but non-deterministically deleted fromit.
Of course, such a move renders the algorithmintractable.
Shift-reduce can complete a well-formed symbol table or chart in polynomial timefor context-free grammars, but Shake-and-Bake isexponential even with a chart.
I will mentionways of addressing this computational drawbackbelow.
Before this, however, I will try to showthat an MT system organised in this way makes itconsiderably easier to correctly state constraintson translation equivalence when TLEs havedivergent structures.
Furthermore, such statementsof equivalence may be exploited in eitherdirection.4.
Translation Equivalence inShake-and-Bake  MT1 will use the PATR-II notation for equations(Shieber 1986), representing constraints on theelements of an equivalence rather than thecategories in a grammar ule.
The substantivetheory could be any of the lexicalist grammarsACTES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOU'I" 1992 7 8 6 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUO.
23-28, 1992mentioned above.
I assume a morpheme-basedlexicon in which each lexical entry (i.e.morpheme) has a feature cite whose valueuniquely picks out that entry.
This feature is usedto distinguish words spoiled the same but withdifferent syntax or semantics, in addition, wherethe orthographic form of a grammaticalmorpheme (such as past tense) is determined on alanguage internal basis (e.g.
by conjugation type ofa verb), all allomorphs will receive the samevalue of cite.
In this way, the notion ofequivalence may be extended to equivalencebetween closed-class grammatical morphemes.
(3) shows  a basic one-to-one quivalencebetween the English verb stem love and theFrench aimer.
(3) XE  m XF<X E c i te> = love  v<X F c i te> ~ a imer<X E sem index> = <X F sem index><X E sem exp  index> =<x F sem exp  index><XE sem obj  index> =<X F sem obj  index>I assume an event-based semantics with a neo-Davidsonian treatment of thematic relations (seee.g.
Parsons (1980, 1991), Hobbs (1986), Dowty(1988)).
The two monolingual signs presupposed by(3) each introduce three LF variables,corresponding to the loving state itself (index),the lover (exp index) and the loved one (objindex).
(3) states the simple pairwise quivalencebetween these.
Despite the identical paths onboth sides of the last two equations, thecorrectness of the method does not rely onthematic identity of equivalent roles.
It mayapply equally to grammars where thematicrelations are verb-specific (e.g.
love_argl,love arg2, aimer argl etc.)
and hence language-specific (sidestepping consistency problems in themonolingual assignment of thematic relations).Furthermore, ven with a substantive theory ofthematic relations applied consistently to twogrammars, the thematic entailments of equivalentargument places may not be identical.
Spaceprecludes discussion of our treatment for suchcases, which is based on the use of sorted LFvariables as described in Moens et al (1989).Assuming equivalences such as (4) for propernames, translation between (5a) and (Sb) will bemediated by the equivalence between bags shownin (6), in which signs are abbreviated by theircitation values.
(4) X E -= X F<X E c i te> = Mary<X F c i te> = Mar ie<X E sem index> = <X F sem index>(Sa) Mary  loves  F rances(5b) Mar ie  a ime FranGo ise(6) (Mary, F rances ,  lover ,  p res}{FranGo ise ,  pres ,  a imer ,  Mar ie}Generation will produce (5a) as tiletranslation of (5b), and vice versa, not becausethat was the structure of the SL text, but because itis the only way of putting together the TL signs in(6) that is compatible with the TL grammar andthe variable bindings established by parsing.This strategy extends straightforwardly tothe 'argument switching' cases of translationequivalence exemplified in (7a and To).
(7a) Mary  l i kes  F rances(7b) F ranGo ise  p la i t  ~ Mar ieThe equivalence between like and plaire ;1 isgiven in (8).
(8) X E ~ X F & X F'<X E c i te> ~ l i ke  v<X F c i te> - p la i re<X F' c i te> = ~_I<X E sem index> = <X F aem index><X E sem exp  index><X F sem exp  index><X E sem obj  index> =<x F sem obj  index><X E sem exp  index> = <X F' aem index>1 have assumed that the path <XF sere obj>picks out the semantic object of the liking state,which is the semantics of plaire's syntacticsubject, but as in the previous example,alternative monolingual assumptions could havebeen made with little import.One point to note here is the treatment of thepreposition ~.
We merely state that one lexicalentry in English corresponds totwo in French.
Theappropriate preposition (<cite> = L I), is anelement with 'identity semantics' (Calder et al1989), so its index is equated in the monolinguallexicon with that of its syntactic object.
It is alsonecessary to equate this index with theexperiencer of like and plaire as in the finalequation.
Then the strict subsumptioninterpretation of bilingual ookup will guaranteethat the elements on the French side are not justunrelated elements of a larger phrase.A~E.S DE COL1NG-92.
NANTES.
23-28 AOt~Z" 1992 7 8 7 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES.
AUG. 23-28, 1992Examples of the argument-switching kind arestandard in the transfer approach as illustrationsof what it does best.
Since a typical transfer MTsystem will process a functional structure byrecursive descent, cases where the translation ofarguments depends on the translation of heads arestraightforward.
However, a major source ofproblems for such transfer schemes are the so-called head-switching cases, in which thesyntactic head-dependent structure in thetranslation equivalents is reversed (see refs.
in?2).
Such a case is illustrated for English/Dutchin (10).
The just/venir de case in English/French issimilar.
(10a) Jan  zwemt  graag(10b) John  en joys  sw immingOnce again, the Shake-and-Bake generationstrategy will correctly compute such TLEs fromstatements of equivalence between simplexexpressions, including that given in (11).
The fullbags are given in (12).
(ii) X E & X E, E X N<X E c i te> - en joy<X E' c i te> - p respar t<X N c i te> = graag<X E sem index> = <X N sem index><X E sem exp  index> =<X N sem exp  index><x E sem obj  index> -<X N sem obj  index><X E, sem index> - <X N sem index>(12) { jan ,pres ,zwemen,graag} m{ john ,pres ,en joy ,prespar t , sw im}The fact that equivalent ense morphemes(pres) occur on non-equivalent stems (enjoy/zwem+) follows immediately from themechanics of generation.
Whitelock (1991a)includes further discussion of these and otherexamples,  which include a further headswitching case in Engl ish/French/ Iapaneseequivalence (13a,b,c), and an example of distinctbut equivalent logical forms in English/Japanese(14a,b)(13a) John  runs  up the  s t reet(13b) Jean  monte  la rue en courant(13c) Zyon wa has i te  toor i  wo  noboruJohn  TOP runn ing  s t reet  ACC goes  up(14a) (p -> q) Mar ia  eats  on ly  f i sh(14b) (~q -> -p)Mar ia  wa sakana  sh ika  tabe-na- iMar ia  TOP f i sh  ?
eat -NEG-PRES5.
Conc lus ions  and  Fur ther  ResearchA small trilingual (English/French/Japanese)system based on the above ideas has beenimplemented and is currently under development.Beaven (1991) describes a similar implementationof an English/Spanish system.
The modularity ofthe monolingual grammars remains uncom-promised even if TLEs have radically differentsyntactic and/or  logical structures, since allcontrastive knowledge is clearly Iocalised in thebilingual lexicon.
Although this paper has onlytouched on the question of complex equivalences, itis clear from our intial implementations that thedeclarative description of these is massivelysimplified by the adoption of a Shake-and-Bakeapproach.
The bilingual lexicographer is notrequired to specify equivalences between abstractstructures at a single (hybrid) level ofrepresentation, as in a transfer system.
Instead,equivalence is stated between bags of multi-dimensional lexical signs.
Constraints on anydimension of such signs may be included (cf.
Tsujii,1986 for the necessity of such multi-dimensionalconstraints).
We believe that the concrete natureof such a task offers interesting possibilities forthe automated acquis it ion of bi l ingualcorrespondences from aligned corpora.
Wetherefore also see Shake-and-Bake as a first stepin the integration of traditional l inguistic(rationalist) and novel statistical (empiricist)approaches toMT (e.g.
Brown et al (1990)).Since Shake-and-Bake generation is an NP-complete problem (see Brew, this conference),there is no tractable general algorithm.
In order toimprove average case performance, we need to beable to impose further structure on the bag whichforms the input to generation.
For example, thesyntactic structure of the source text might becalled upon to provide heuristic controlinformation for generation.
The resulting systemwould be similar in character to a transferorganisation, but avoiding the 'proceduralseduction' of Kaplan (1987), that is, thetemptation to allow or require a grammar writerto state detailed control information.
While itseems that such a possibility would enable agrammar to be applied more efficiently, Kaplanargues that a computer is almost always betterqualified to carry out the task of optimising theprocedural interpretation of a large coveragegrammar.
In the current context, the proceduralseduction is that the bilingual grammar writer isthe one best qualified to define the structural'changes' contingent on the definition of particularACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOI~I" 1992 7 8 8 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992lexical equivalences.
One approach to theefficiency problem will therefore address theautomatic determination of useful controlinformation from the derivation of the source bagand the exploitation of this in generation.
Brew(this conference) presents an alternative approachwhich extends van Benthem's Count Invariant forCategorial Grammars (see e.g.
Moortgat, (1988))to constraint grammars.
In this way, fruitlessbranches of the search space may be pruned early,thus improving efficiency of generation usingmonolingual TL information.In the discussion so far, it has been assumedthat the only functions of syntax in parsing havebeen a) to extend the lexical signs and therebyconstrain the applicable quivalences, and bl todetermine the bindings of LF variables and thusprovide the semantic constraints that are theinvariants for translation.
We have notconsidered a class of invariants that may begrouped under the heading of discourse structure.In fact, logically equivalent discourse variants aretypically associated with non-equivalent bags;for example, the passive morpheme may bepresent in one but not another; word order featuresmay also be constrained in a bil ingualequivalence.
So such invariants can be captured.On the other hand, a more elegant treatmentmight involve a computat ion of a set ofinterlingual discourse constraints on derivations tobe used in generation in the same way as thesemantic onstraints on LF variables.
Clearly suchan approach would be very similar to aninterlingual system, but without the adverseconsequences for grammatical  modular i tycharacteristic of such systems.AcknowledgementsThe ideas and algorithms presented here weredeveloped jointly with Mike Reape.
John Beavenand Evelyn van de Veen in Edinburgh elped byexploring them in their PhD and MSc thesesrespectively.
Sharp Laboratories of Europe gaveme the opportunity to continue working on them,and 1 would like to acknowledge the help of allmy colleagues there, especially ian Johnson, ChrisBrew, Olivier Laurens and Tosh Nomura.ReferencesAllegranza, V. , P. Bennett, J. Durand, F. vanEynde, L. Humphries, P. Schmidt and E. Steiner(1991) "Linguistics for Machine Translation: TheEurotra Linguistic Specifications".
Studies in MTand NLP, CEC.Alshawi, H. r D. M. Carter, B. Gambaeck and M.Rayner (1991) "Interactive Translation usingQuasi-Logical Forms", Proceedings of the 29thACL, Berkely.Baschung, K., G. Bes, A, Corluy and T. Guillotin(1987) "Auxiliaries and Clitics in French UCGGrammar", Proceedings of the Third EuropeanACL, Copenhagen.Beaven, J.L.
(1991) Lexicalist Unification-BasedMachine Translation, PhD Thesis, submitted toDept.
of Artificial Intell igence, Univ.
ofEdinburgh.Brew, C.H.
(1992) "Letting the cat out of the bag:Generation for Shake-and-Bake MT", thisconference.Brown, P., J. Cocke, S. della Pietra, V.J.
dellaPietra, F. Jelinek, J.D.Lafferty, R.L.
Mercer and P.S.
Roossin (1990) "A Statistical Approach toMachine Translation", CL vol.
16, no 2.Calder, J. , M. Reape & H. Zeevat (1989l "AnAlgorithm for Generation in UCG", Proceedings ofthe Fourth European ACL, Manchester.Dowty~ D. (1989) "On the Semantic Content of theNotion 'Thematic-Role'", in G. Chierchia, B.Partee and R. Turner (eds.)
Property Theory, TypeTheory and Natural Language Semantics,Dordrecht, Reidel.Fenstad, J.E., P.K.
Halvorsen, T. Langholm and J.van Bentham (1985) Equations, Schemata ndSituations: A Framework for Linguistic Semantics.CSLI-85-29, Stanford.Gunji ,  T. (1987) Japanese Phrase StructureGrammar, Reidel, Dordrecht.Hobbs, J.
(1986) "Ontological Promiscuity",Proceedings of the 25th ACL.Kaplan, R. M. (1987) "Three Seductions inComputat ional  Psychol inguist ics",  in P.J.Whitelock, M.M.
Wood, H. Somers, P. Bennett, R.Johnson (eds.)
Linguistic Theory and ComputerApplications: Academic Press.Kaplan, R. M., K. Netter, J. Wedekind and A.Zaenen (1989) "Translation by StructuralCorrespondances", Proceedings of the FourthEuropean ACL, Manchester.Karttunen, Lauri (1989) '~Radical Lexicalism", inM.R.
Baltin and A.S. Kroch (eds.
), AlternativeConceptions of Phrase Structure, Chicago.Landsbergen, J.
(1987) "Montagne Grammar andMachine Translation", in P.J.
Whitelock, M.M.Wood, H. Somers, P. Bem~ett, R. Johnson (eds.
)Linguistic Theory and Computer Applications:ACrEs DE COL1NG-92.
NANTES, 23-28 AOt~T 1992 7 8 9 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES, AUtL 23-28.
1992Academic Press.Lytinen, S and R. Shank (1982) "Representationand Translation".
TR 324, Dept.
of ComputerScience, Yale University.Moens, M., I. Calder, E. Klein, M. Reape and H.Zeevat (1989) "Expressing Generalisations inUnif ication-Based Grammar  Formalisms",Proceedings of the Fourth European ACL,Manchester.Moortgat, M. (1988) Categorial Investigations:Logical and Linguistic Aspects of the LambekCalculus.
Foris, Dordrecht.Nagao, M. J. Tsujii and J. Nakamura (1985) 'q'heJapanese Government Project for MachineTranslation", Computational Linguistics, vol.
11#2-3Odijk, J.
(1989) '"I'he Organisation of the RosettaGrammars", Proceedings of the 4th European ACL,Manchester.Parsons, T. (1980) "Modifiers and Quantifiers inNatural  Language",  Canadian Journal ofPhilosophy, supp.
vol.
VI.Parsons, T. (1991) Events in the Semantics ofEnglish, MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass.Pereira, F. C.N.
(1987) "Grammars and Logics ofPartial Information", in Proceedings of the 4thInternational Conference on Logic Programming,Melbourne, Australia.Pollard, C and 1.
Sag (1987)Information-basedSyntax and Semantics: Vol 1: Fundamentals, CSLILecture Notes 13.Pollard, C and L Sag (forthcoming)Information-based Syntax and Semantics: Vol 2, CSLI.Ramsay, A (1991) "A common framework foranalysis and generation", in Proceedings of the5th European ACL, Berlin.R~sner, D. (1986) "When Mariko talks toSiegfried: Experiences from a Japanese/GermanMT project".
Proceedings of the 11th InternationalConference in Computational Linguistics(COLING), Bonn.Sadler, L., I. Crookston and A.
Way (1989) "Co-description, projection and 'difficult' translation",Working Papers in Language Processing #8, Dept.of Language and Linguistics, University of Essex.Sadler, L., I. Crookston, D. Arnold and A.
Way(1990) "LFG and Translation", in ThirdInternational Conference on Theoretical andMethodological Issues in MT, Linguistics ResearchCentre, Austin, Texas.Sadler, L and H. S. Thompson (1991) "StructuralNon-Correspondance in Translation", inProceedings of the 5th European ACL, Berlin.Sheiber, S.M.
(1986) An Introduction toUnification -Based Approaches to Grammar,University of Chicago Press.Shieber, S. M. (1988) A Uniform Architecture forParsing and Generation", Proceedings of the 12thInternational Conference in ComputationalLinguistics (COLING), Budapest.Tsujti, J.
(1986) "Future Directions of MachineTrans la t ion" ,  Proceedings of the 11thInternational Conference in ComputationalLinguistics (COLING), Bonn.Tsujii, J and K. Fujita (1991) "Lexieal Transferbased on Bilingual Signs", Proceedings of the 5thEuropean ACL, Berlin, April 1991.Ushida, H and K. Sugiyama (1980) "A MachineTranslation system from Japanese into Englishbased on Conceptual Structure".
Proceedings ofthe8th International Conference in ComputationalLinguistics (COLING), Tokyo.Uszkoreit, Hans (1986) "Categorial UnificationGrammars", Proceedings of the 11th InternationalConference in Computational Linguistics(COLING), Bonn.van de Veen, E. (1990) Parsing Free Word OrderLanguages, MSc Thesis, Dept.
of ArtificialIntelligence, University of Edinburgh.Vauquois, B. and Ch.
Boitet (1985) "AutomatedTrans la t ion  at Grenoble  Univers i ty" ,Computational Linguistics, vol.
11 #1.Whitelock,  P. (1991a) "Shake-and-BakeTranslation".
in Proceedings of the Workshop onConstraint Propagation and LinguisticDescription.
ed.
C.J.
Rupp, M. Rosner and R.Johnson, IDSIA, Lugano.Whitelock, P. (1991b)A Lexicalist UnificationGrammar of Japanese.
PhD Thesis, submitted toDept.
of Language and Linguistics, UMIST.Zeevat, H., E. Klein and J. Calder (1987) "AnIntroduction to Unification Calegorial Grammar",in N.J. Haddock, E. Klein and G. Morrill (eds.
)Edinburgh Working Papers in Cognitive Science,vol.
1: Categorial Grammar, Unification Grammarand Parsing.
Centre for Cog.
Science, Edinburgh.Ac'u~s DE COLING-92.
NANT1~S.
23-28 hotrr 1992 7 9 0 PROC.
or: COLING-92.
NANTES.
AUG. 23-28.
1992SHAKE-AND-BAKE TRANSLATIONP.
WhitelockSharp Laboratories of Europe Ltd.Oxford  Sc ience  ParkOxford ,  U .K .pete@uk.ae.ox.prgR~-um~Dans cet article, je d&'ris une conception de la Traduction Automatique qui apporte deg'solutionsnouvelles et radicales ~t quelquea uns des probl~mes rencontres par les approches ttucturalesrelies que les modules A transfert ou ~t hangue pivot.
Cette nouveUe appreche st bas6e sur treeconception lexicaliste de la grammaire o~ les unit~ lexicales ont des signes multi-dimensionnels.La relation de traduction est d~qnie comme une &tuivalence ntre des "bags" (multi-ensembles)d 'un i t~ lexicales.
L'analyse de la Langue Source d~ermine lea "bags" d'un c6t~ de l'&tuivalenceet la g6n6ration par l'algorithme Shake and Bake combine librement lea signes correspondants enfonction de ha grammaire de la Langue Cible.
Le partage des variables entre ha forme logique dessignea dans les deux hanguea fournit lea contraintes ,~mantiques nd, ceasaires.
II eat facile deformu|er des d, quivalencea entre des expressions ayant des structures yntaxiquea ou logiqueslargement divergentes et d'utiliser ces connaissances de mani~re dacidable pour ~fectuer destraduction dans l'une ou l'autre direction.Acla~s DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Ao(rr 1992 7 9 1 l'~oc.
OF COL1NG-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992
