A ROBUST APPROACH FOR HANDLING ORAL  D IALOGUESEric Bilange & .lean-Yves Magadt, rCAP GEMINI INNOVATIONParis Research Ceutre118, rue de Tocqueville75017 Paris, FrancePhone : +33 ( 1 ) 40 54 66 66e-mail: bilange@capsogeti.fr & magadur@capsogeti.frABSTRACTPresent limits of speech recognition andunderstandi?,g in the context of freespoken language (alttumgh with a limitedvocabulary) have perverse ffects on thef low of the dialogue with a system.Typically a non robtt~'t dialogue managerwill fail to face with these limits andconversations will often be a failure.
Thispaper presents ome possibilities of astructural approach for  handlingcommunication failures in task-orientedoral dialogues.
Several types ofcommunication failures are presented andexplained.
They must be dealt with by thedialogue manager i f  we strike to have arobt~t system.
The exposed strategies forhandling these failures are based on astructural approach of the conversationand are implemented in the SUNDIAL,wstem.
We first recall some aspects ofthe model and then describe the strategiesfo r  p revent ing  and repair ingcommunicat ion Jai lure in oralconversations with a system.1 INTRODUCTIONDespite the complexity of human-machined ia logue,  the present  l imits of  speechrecognition and understanding techniques addfurther complexity.
The troublesome aspect ofthese limits is clearly that when a dialogue man-ager fails to face properly misunderstandings,and failures in general, the conversation istedious and often of no use.
Thus one mainaspect of a robust oral dialogue system is to beable to cope with misunderstandings of anytype and to respect a minimum of ergonomy inuse.This paper exposes ome techniques developedin the SUNDIAL  1 sys tem (SpeechF" SUNDIAL is partially funded hy the Commission for theEuropean Communities ESPRIT programme, as projectUNDerstanding and DIALogue), a mr, hi-useroral dialogue system over the telephone for da-tabase access.
In this system the main objectiveis that the dialogue with the user must be effi-cient and robust such that computational pro-blems arc not apparent o the user, i.e., shenlust have the feeling to talk with an intelligentand llorulal parmer.The exposed techn iques  are obv ious lydependent of the conversation model we used.Wc recall so far the model in section 2 and 3,but the reader is referred to IBilange 91a, 91b\]for further details.
The rest of  the paperexposes several strategies to tackle withdifferent ypes of communication failure.First, let us introduce the problematic in a moreconcrete  way and the typo logy  ofcomnmnication failures.The dialogue manager  receives as input asemantic representation of what the speechunderstanding layer has recognized from theuser's utterance.
One funct ional i ty is tointerpret he current user's goal(s) in the contextof the conversation and to appropriately react sottmt the rusk progresses on the right track.ltowever, inputs may be corrupted in severalways:?
there may be confusions for some words,?
only a part of the utterance is understood,?
what is understood is not what the usersaid,?
nothing is understood.So whenever the dialogue manager receives aninput, it is aware of these problems.
It mustthen check with the user whether they share thesame information.
In other words, the system2218.
Tile parmers in this project are CAP GEMINIINNOVATION.
CNET, CSEL'I', DAIMLER-BENZ,ERLANGEN University, INFOVOX, IRISA, LOGICA,SARITEI.. SIEMENS, and SURREY Univerity.ACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES.
23-28 AOt\]T 1992 7 9 9 Pgoc.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992has to be careful of providing enough feedbackof its understanding in order to prevent failures.As we said earlier, this must be done in such away that the dialogue remains efficient andnatural.The techniques used for providing feedbackand tackling with communication failure areentirely based on a structural model of theconversation in which we formalized severaldialogue strategies.
Before describing oursolutions, we first give a brief overview of theunderlying theory.2 THE D IALOGUE MODELThe model  is structural and funct ional\[Moeschler 89, Bilange 91a, Bilange 91b\].
Theconversation is structured into four levels:transactions, exchanges, interventions, anddialogue acts.
Each of these levels hasfunctional relationships with the dominatingand adjacent one.
Fig.
1 presents the BNFsyntax of  the model.A Dialogue is made of the following components:Transactions, Exchanges, Interventions, andDialogue Acts (Da).
The syntax of the model is asfollows:D -~, {T} +T ~ (E}+E-~.
{I}+{E}*{I} *I{EI +1 --~ {Da} +" Fig.
I: the BNF lorm of the mode.\[?
T ransact ions :  are the outmost level.Analyses of corpora revealed that task-orienteddialogues are a collection of phases \[Amalbertiet al 84, Ponamal6 et al 90\], so-calledtransactions.
In our domain, we can identifyfour main transactions: dialogue opening, pro-blem formulation, problem resolution, anddialogue closing.
The second and the third onesform a sequence that can be iterated or/and thatcan recursively occnr during a conversation.One can think of transactions as discourse seg-ments \[Grosz and Sidner 861 that denote plantransitions' points at the task managentent level.During a transaction, the dialogue participantstry to achieve a generic goal (open the dialogue,fornmlate the problem...) .
It has been alsoproved that participant roles depend on the typeof the transaction and therefore participants'dialogue stlategies vary according to the currenttransaction \[Bilange 91 b l.?
Exchanges:  are made up of interventionsor of exchanges ( ub-exchanges).
An exchangecarries a specific goal that may contribute to the1 similar to moves inthe litteramre.transaction (the one it belongs to) or a goaldedicated to a communication clarification.
Anexchange has also three possible statuses: open,close or postponed.
Once an exchange isclosed, it is impossible to reenter it (e.g., if onewishes to discuss again about the same goalthen a new exchange is opened).
A postponedexchange is temporarily closed and may be re-opened later.?
Intervent ions:  are the basic componentsof exchanges, and they are made up of dialogueacts.
Three canonical illocutionary functions areattached to interventions: initiative, reaction andevaluation.
Bas ica l ly ,  in i t iat ives 2 openexchanges: they introduce the goal of  the ex-change.
Reactions react to initiatives (they mayor may not be present) and evaluations evaluatethe exchange (e.g., the status of the goalachievement: positive, negative, satisfying...).Things can be a bit more complex sinceinitiatives, reactions and evaluations may not bea mere collection of dialogue acts but rather acollaborative process.
This is why exchangesmay also have these il locutionary functionsattached to them.In oral human-machine interactions, it is crucialthat evaluations can be performed by both userand system.
Evaluating an exchange meansverifying its completion, i.e., whether theunderlying intention (goal) is reached or not.Therefore evaluations are of prime importancesince the main side effect is that whenever thetwo diatoguees agree implicitly (a s impleevaluat ion)  or expl ic it ly (an evaluat iveexchange) then the evaluated exchange can beclosed (and thus all information exchanged in itcan be certified as shared by both dialoguees).?
Dialogue acts are the basic componentsof  in te rvent ions .
D ia logue  acts  (asinterventions) are monological units: they areperformed by one participant as the result of anautonomous process, hi one intervention (saymove) one cart perform more than one dialogueacts.
At least one expresses the il locutionaryfunction of the intervention, it is called the mainact.
D ia logue  acts are act ions  withpreconditions and effects.
We describe them intile next section.From this hierarchical description, one canbuild a structure that dynamically represents hecurrent state of the conversation.
It is called thedialogue structure.
This object is continuouslyupdated as the dialogue goes on.
The dialoguestructnre may be thought as a tree where leaves2 a shortcut m say "interventions that have an initiativeillocutionary function".ACl'ES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOtn' 1992 8 0 0 PRO(:.
Or COLING-92.
NArCrEs, AUG. 23-28, 1992dialogue act label : rcq-fnr-spellmgdialogue act owner : systemstructural preconditions: S = \[... \[E, i(s), r(u), \[E Ev, i(s), contest(u)Jl ... J& E1Ev is a currently open exchangestructural effects : S = l... \[E,i(s),r(u), \[E Ev, i(s), contest(u), \[E2 v, rcq-lor-spelling(s)\]l\] ...\]_F.ig.2 : a system dialogue act definitionare dialogue acts uttered by both speakers, andnodes are intervent ions,  exchanges  aridtransactions ( ee figure 4 for the representationof a dialogue xcerpt).3 DIALOGUE ACTS AS RULESDialogue acts come from the well-knowntheory of  speech acts.
We agree with Bunt,however, that a dialogue act must be definedwith respect o the modifications on the context\[Bunt 89\].
An act is then tittered when thecontext fits the conditions associated to it.
Inturn, the production of  an act modif ies thecontext.
Therefore, a dialogue act is a functionwhich transforms a context into a new one.
ForBunt, the context is the description of bothdialogue participants'  mental  states: theirknowledge, suspicions and beliefs.However, some contextual aspects are difficultto encapsulate in a pure attitude modelrepresentation, especially those coming fromstructural indicators, denoted in the dialoguestructure.
Therefore, our notion of the contextis Bunt's plus the dialogue structure \[Bilange91a\].
The advantage of  this approach is thatsome dialogue acts can be triggered if and onlyif certain patterns are present in the dialoguestructure.
This naturally captures the fact thatperforming dialogue acts must respect structuralconstraints and dialogue norms.So, dialogue acts are triggered when certainconditions are met.
These conditions are of twokinds: structural and/or non-structural.
Astructural precondition enforces tire presertce(or absence) of a certain pattern in the dialoguestructure for the act, if triggered.
A non-structural precondition is tied to the mentalstates of  dialogue participants: task goals toachieve, mutual believes...Figure 2 presents an example of a systemdia logue act which has only structuralpreconditons and effects.S denotes the dialogue structure.
E denotes anexchange, made up here of one initiative (i(s)),one reaction (r(s)) and one evaluative xchangeEv E t .
This evaluative xchange is in turn madeup of one initiative and one reaction that iscomposed of one dialogue act: contest .
("s" and"u" denote the system and the user resp.
).From there, the system dialogue act req-for-spelling is triggered when an evaluation hasbeen uttered by the system and that evaluationis contested by the user (the system'sewduation opens an evaluative xchange (EE"),thus it is an initiative and the user's contest isthe reaction to that initiative).
It is of coursepossible to define other dialogue acts based onthe same idea: another act may be triggeredwhen there are two, or three embeddedevaluative xchanges instead of only one.
Itshould be noticed that for req-for-spelling it isnot necessary  to have non structura lprecondit ions and effects.
Typical ly,  onlystructural evidences me sufficient o trigger thisact.
This is what characterizes dialogue controlacts.4 HANI )L ING COMMUNICAT IONFA ILURES4.2 Fa i lure  prevent ion  with feedbackAs said earlier, evahmtion purpose is mainly toclose an exchange in providing a feedback onthe outcome of the exchange intention.Ewduations are optional in essence, however asafe strategy for the system consists in usingthis opportunity to make clear what itunderstood.One can perfom~ an evaluation in several ways:e i ther  ira exp l i c i t l y  check ing  one 'sunders tand ing  with a request  for anacknowledgment or implicitly with a mereecho.
The first solution blocks the conversationon ,a chtrification whereas the second allowsboth dialogue participants to continue theconversat ion in moving to another topic.Obviously, the first behaviour is less risky forthe system since the user may contest theevaluation anyway.
However,  the secondbehaviour is more natural and fluid.
Therefore,we endowed the system with the capacity ofusing both behaviours with a preference for thesecond.
Basically, in the oral context, thesystem makes its choices on the basis ofAcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt~\[' 1992 8 0 1 PROC.
OV COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992acoustic .scores 3.Three different behaviours aredefined, based on the distribution of scoresamong three categories: high, average, andlow.?
Low scores: only the evaluation isperformed;?
Average  scores: the evaluat ion isperformed and the opening of  a newexchange is allowed.
An example is givenwith S:t (see the dialogue below), where theevaluation concerns the destination and date(parameters obtained in the first exchange ofthe dialogue) and a new exchange is opened(the one conceming the solution).?
High scores: similar to the average scorecase.
However, the system can generate twoacts that can be merged in the same sentencewhich can,  in some c i rcumstances ,strengthen the naturalness of the system'soutput.
If the score were high in ourdialogue, $2 would have been: "there is aflight to Rome which takes off at 10.30 onTuesday, is that ok?
"S1 Flight reservation system.
Form ulate your requesl.UI I'd like to go to Bonn on next Tuesday morning.$2 Rome next Tuesday, there is a flight which lakesoffat 10.30, is that ok?U2 No I want to go to BONN$3 ok, Bonn.
There is a flight...Whatever the scores are the system, whileper forming an evaluat ion,  systemat ical lypredicts a possible user contest.
Thesepredictions are precise since the system knowsexactly where and on what information contestscan occur.
U2, for example, has been predictedand the prediction says that if the user conteststhe arrival city it is out of question to recognizethe same value (i.e., Rome).
Moreover, thesystem knows that if the user accepts anevaluation then the evaluated information iscertified as shared (implicitly).
This is the caseof the departure date in our example (one cannotice that the acceptance is not explicit, this isdiscussed in the next section).
This is why in$3, the system has to conf irm only thedeparture city.Scores are not the only information used by thesystem to plan its behaviour.
The system canevaluate the degree of risk when mergingevaluations with other acts.
in our example, $2is cons idered as r isky s ince there aresimultaneously a twofold evaluation (city anddate), a topic shift and a transaction shift (fromproblem formulation to problem resolution).3 More precisely on a combination f acoustic scores andthe perplexity.The transaction shift is risky since the systemcloses a transaction where some parameters arenot yet confirmed and the evaluation is alsorisky since correctly recognizing a contestmeans recognizing on what the contest is aboutbetween two possibilities.
However, $3 is lessrisky.The evaluation principles enumerated abovewith the notion of risk in one utterance providea good help for preventing failures in a veryergonomic fashion.
This technique is wellperceived by the majority of tested users.4.2 S t ruc tura l  detect ion  of  somefa i lu resIn this section we illustrate how the structure ofthe conversation helps the system to detectfailure situations.Figure 3 (next page) shows two dialogues thatdiffer only because of a failure in the secondone.
The structures of  these dialogues arepresented on the right hand side.The system has tentatively opened a newexchange about the departure date, but beforedoing so, it has uttered an evaluation to closethe previous exchange by echoing what itbelieves the departure and arrival cities are.
Atthis stage, two possible continuations are:?
the user answers the question about thedate; this means that she implicitly agreesone the system's evaluation.
Et can then beclosed;?
the user utters a disagreement about theevaluation.These possible cont inuat ions are shown infigure 3.
In the case of  the user's contest(continuation 1I), the system's evaluat ionbecomes the initiative of an evaluative xchange(E E') and E2 is postponed.
The shape of  thedialogue structure is typical in such a case offailure.
This leads to the idea that one couldexamine the dia logue structure to detectcommunicat ion  fa i lures and to tr iggerappropriate repair strategies.Precisely, through dialogue act definitions, thesystem detects failures in triggering dialoguecontrol acts.
From now, implementing a repairstrategy is easily done in adding new acts.Actually, in the Sundial system a situation likethe one in continuation II is treated as follow:the system triggers a req-for-spell ing (see thepreconditions in figure 2).
This strong dialoguecontrol act permits the system to send veryaccurate predictions, telling the speech un-AcrEs DE COLING-92, NAMES, 23-28 Aot~r 1992 8 0 2 P~OC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES.
AUo.
23-2g, 1992S t Formulate your equestU 1 I would like ~o go to Luton 'S 2 S~ Paris LutonS~ when would you like to leave?U 2November  the 30thS 1 Formulate your equestU 1 I would like Io go to LutonS 2 S~ Paris LondonS~ when would you like to leave?U 2 No Purls LUTONCONTINUATION 1IE  \ [ l s  l Formulate your requestE1 \ [Ru I  i would like to go to Luton\[Evsl  Paris LutonE0 \[Is2 wl .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
ld you like to I .
.
.
.
?2 \ [Ru2 November the 30thCONTINUATION ilI F ls l Formulate your request/ R U 1 I would like to go to l.utonEl / Flsl Pari~ londonF, ~2 '\] F.2 \[Is2 wl ... .
.
.
ould you like to I .
.
.
.
?Fie.
3: Two nossiblc tmtinuationsderstanding layer that the user is about tothe mam~ of ~ ~itY (with forbidden cities: theone misunders tood before).
It has beenobserved that oral spell ing is robust iff thespeech understanding layer tries to recognizethe input with a specific grammar which is donein the Sundia l  speech unders tand ingcomponent.
So this strategy offers a veryrobust approach that can be easily generalizedto proper names.U I would like to go to LtnonS 2 Paris London when would like to leave?U2 No Paris LutonS 3 Could you spell the arrival city plc~se?U 3 L,U, T, O, N_S 4 So Lu~n.. And about he date?Fi~,.4: A r~pair seouenceFigure 4 shows one actual dialogue obtainedwith Sundial with this technique.
In thisdialogue, one can observe that the system hastemporari ly focused on the communicat ionproblem and once it is solved, it reintroducesthe departure date topic.We have examined here some possibilities ofpreventing and repairing failures in intensivelytaking into account the dialogue structure,specially at lhc level of dialogue act definitions.Dialogue control acts arc of prime importancefor obtaining accurate predictions that indeedhelp the speech tmderstanding layer.5 ACCEPTABIL ITY  OF  THESEMANTIC  INPUTWe examine now some cases in which apragmatically doubtful input can be rejected bythe diaktgue manager with the help of structuralevidences.
Let us first examine the followingscellario:During its turn, the system has evaluatedan exchange E 1 and opened a new oneE2.
It is now the turn of the user (thissituation is similar to continuation 1 in./igure 3 bejore U2).A system initiative may be of two types:(i) an initiative such that the user canimplicitly react,(ii) an initiative such that the user can onlyperform an explicit reaction.Figure 5 provides an example where thesystem's initiative in E2 is of type (ii).The last user's input seems quite surprising.S 1 Formulaie your equest ~ 'U 1 I would like to go to Luton / E1S 2 S~ Paris Luton EoS 2 when would you like to leave?U 2 I need a ticket for the return LE 2Is1 Formulate your requestR U l I wtJuld like to go to LutonEVsI Paris Luton\[1S2 wi .
.
.
.
.
.
.
Id y,,u like t,,I .
.
.
.
?\[RIj 2 November the 30thFi~.
5: A w r u n ~Ac'r~ DE COLING-92, NAN'rES, 23-28 AO~r 1992 8 0 3 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992dialogue act label : initiativedialogue act owner : userstructural preconditions : there is no currently open exchange of the form IE, i(s)\] such that i(s)is of type (ii)and other preconditionsstructural effects : an exchange of the form \[E, i(u)l is added in the current ransactionand other effectsFie.6: a skeleton for user's initi~aive definitionsThe user is actually supposed to react to thesystem's initiative in E2 or to the evaluation ofEl, or both.
U2 is a complete topic shift (notrelated to the problem formulation of  the one-way -the current ransaction-).
From the systempoint of view, the most natural interpretation isthat a recognit ion failure most probablyoccurred.
This structural aspect (which capturesnormative evidences of the conversation)allows the inhibition of some user's initiativesinterpretation when there exists, somewhere inthe dia logue structure, a non-answeredsystem's initiative of type (ii).
This leads to thegeneral definition of user's initiatives presentedin figure 6.Conversely, if the system initiative is of type(i), like in figure 7, the user's input can beaccepted.So, once an input has been rejected, the systemmust enter a repair process.
In the case given infigure 5, the real user's utterance could be ananswer on the departure date or a contest o theevaluation as well.
The strategy is then to askthe user to repeat without changing the situation(except hat the system remembers that therewas a failure.
If the failure continues then otherstrong control can be perform such as connectto a human operator).IS At what time would you like to leave?
\]UI 9 p.m. ' \[$2 9 p.m., there is flight BA 123 ... is that ok?
\[(initiative of type i) IU2 1 need a ticket for the return I(acceptable user initiative) IFit,.
7: a user initiativeafter a system initiative of tvve (i)as effects, which al lows us to capturenom~ative and natural aspects of task-orienteddialogues.We have studied and exploited these capacitiesfor at least a small set of possibilities.
Thisapproach has to be enriched to cover mores i tuat ions .
C lear ly ,  this approach  iscomplementary to the ones based on pure atti-tude models of both dialogue participants andthis is where our system should be enlargedtoo.The optimistic onclusion is to say that with theSUNDIAL system, dialogues never totally fail:failure/repair sequences often occur but at leastthe conversation always ends to the resultenvisaged by the user.
This  is what weobserved after having tested a range of 20 naiveusers who were general ly (around 90%)satisfied of the dialogues thay had with thesystem.6 CONCLUSIONThe structural model of the conversation t, sedin the Sundial system offers great capacities todeal with speech pitfalls.We have presented here some techniques toboth prevent and repair misunderstandings.
Thebenefit of the structure of the communication isto enrich, in a practicable way, the notion ofcontext usually based on mental attitudes.
Thisbenefit  a l lows to enr ich d ia logue actpreconditions with structural patterns, as wellAC-q'ES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt~r 1992 8 0 4 PROC, OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992REFERENCESAmalberti, R., Carbonell, ~N., Falzon, P.(1984) "Stratrgies de contrrle du dialogue ensituation d'interrogation trlrphonique", iraCommunication Orale hzmune-machine, GALF-GRECO.Bilange, E. (1991a) "A Task Independent OralDialogue Model", in Proceedings of theEuropean ACL, Berlin, pp, 83-88, April.Bilange, E. (1991b) "Modrlisation du dialogueoral personne-machine par une approchestructurelle", PhD Thesis, Rennes I University,December.Bunt, H.C. (1989) "Information dialogue ascommunicative action in relation to partnermodelling and information processing", in TheStructure of Multimodal Dialogues includingvoice, D. Bouwhuis, M. Taylor, F. Nrel (eds),pp.
1-19, North-Holland.Grosz, B.J, Sidner, C.L.
(1986) "Attention,Intentions, and the structure of discourse", inComputational Linguistics, 12-3, pp.
175-204,July-September.Moeschler, J.
(1989) Moddlisation du dialogue.reprdsentation de l'inf~rence argumentative.Hermes, Paris.Ponamal6, M., Bihmge, E., Choukri, K.,Soudaplatoff, S. (1990) "A computer-aidedapproach to the design of an oral dialoguesystem", in Proceedings of the EasternMulticonference, Nashville, Tennessee, April.ACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Aot'n" 1992 8 0 5 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992
