Parameterization of the Interlingua in Machine TranslationBonn ie  Dorr*Ins t i tu te  for Advanced Computer  S tud iesA .V .
Wi l l i ams Bu i ld ing ,  Room 3157Un ivers i ty  of  Mary landCol lege Park ,  MD 20742e-mai l :  bonn ie@umiacs .umd.eduAbst ractThe task of designing an interlingual machine transla-tion system is difficult, first because the designer musthave n knowledge of the principles underlying cross~linguistic distinctions for the languages under consider-ation, and second because the designer must then beable to incorporate this knowledge ffectively into thesystem.
This paper provides a catalog of several typesof distinctions among Spanish, English, and German,and describes a parametric approach that characterizesthese distinctions, both at the syntactic level and at thelexical-semantic level.
The approach described here isimplemented in a system called UNITRAN, a machinetranslation system that translates English, Spanish, andGerman bidirectionally.1 In t roduct ionWhat makes the task of designing an interlin-gual machine translation system difficult is the re-quirement hat the translator process many typesof language-specific phenomena while still main-taining language-independent information about thesource and target languages.
Given that these twotypes of knowledge (language.specific and language-independent) are required to fulfill the translationtask, one approach to designing a machine trans-lation system is to provide a common language.independent representation tiiat acts as a pivot be-tween the source and target languages, and to pro-vide a parameterized mapping between this formand the input and output of each language.
Thisis the approach taken in UNITRAN, a machinetranslation system that translates English, Spanish,*This paper describes research done at the Uni-versity of Maryland Institute for Advanced ComputerStudies and at the MIT Artificial Intelligence Labo~ratory.
Useful guidance and commentary during theresearch and preparation of this document were pro-vided by Bob Berwick, Gary Coen, Bruce Dawson, Klau-dis Dussa-Zieger, Terry Gaasterland, Ken Hale, MikeKashket, Jorge Lobo, Panla Merlo, James Pustejovsky,Jeff Siskind, Clare Vess, Amy Weinberg, and PatrickWinston.
'7-rFigure 1: Overall Design of the UN|TRAN Systemand German bidirectionally.
The pivot form that isused in this system is a lexical conceptual structure(henceforth, LCS) (see Jackendoff(1983, 1990), Hale& Laughren (1983), Hale & Keyser (1986a, 1986b),and Levin & Rappaport  (1986)), which is a form thatunderlies the source- and target-language sentences.The pivot approach to translation is called in-tcvliugual because it relies on an underlying formderived from universal principles that hold acrossall languages.
Within this framework, distinctionsbetween languages are accounted for by settings ofparameters associated with the universal principles.For example, there is a universal principle that re-quires there to be a conceptual subject for each pred-icate of a sentence.
Whether or not the couceptualsubject is syntactically realized is determined by aparameter associated with this principle: the nullsubject parameter.
This parameter is set to yes forSpanish (also, Italian, Hebrew, etc.)
but no for En-glish and German (also French, Warlpiri, etc.).
Thesetting of the null subject parameter accounts forthe possibility of a missing subject in Spanish andthe incorrectness of a missing subject in English andGerman (except for the imperative form).This paper argues that, not only should the syn-tactic component of a machine translation system beparameterized, but other components of a machinetranslation system would also benefit from the pa-rameterization approach.
In particular, the lexical-semantic omponent must be constructed in such away as to allow principles of the lexicon to be pa-rameterized.
Thus, UNITRAN uses two levels ofprocessing, syntactic and lexical-semantie, both ofwhich operate on the basis of language-independentACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt~r 1992 6 2 4 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUO.
23-28, 1992knowledge that is parameterized to encode lauguage~specific information (see figure 1).Within the syntactic level, the language-independent and language-speeilic information aresupplied, respectively, by the principles and pa-rmnetets of government-binding theory (henceforth,GB) (see Chomaky (1981, 1982)).
Within thelexical-semantie level, the language-independent andlanguage-specific information are supplied by a setof general LCS mappings and the associated pa-rameters for each language, respectively.
Tim inter-face between the syntactic and semantic levels allowsthe source-language structure to be mapped system-atically to the conceptual form, and it allows thetargetdanguage structure to be realized systemati-cally from lexical items derived from the conceptualform.
This work represents a shift away from coln-plex, language-specific syutactic translation withoutentirely abandoning syntax.
Furthermore, the workmoves toward a model that employs a well-definedlexieal conceptual representation without requiringa "deep" semantic onceptualizatiou.Consider the following example:(1) (i) I stabbed Jnhn(ii) Yo le di pufialadas a Juan'I gave knife-wounds to John'This example illustrates a type of distiuctiou (hence-forth called divergence as presented in Dorr (1990a))that arises in machine translation: the source-language predicate, stab, is ,napped to more thanone target-language word, dar puiialadas a. Thisdivergence type is lezical in that there is a wordselection variation between the source language andthe target language.
Such divergeuees are accountedfor by lexical-semantie parameterization, as we willsee in section 3.The following section of this paper will provide acatalog of syntactic divergences between the sourceand target languages.
The set of parameters thatare used to account for these divergences will be de-scribed.
In the third section, we will exanfine thedivergences that occur at tire lexical-semantie level,and we will see how the parametric approach ac-counts for these divergences as well.
Finally, we willturu to the evaluation and coverage of tile system.2 Toward  a Cata log  o f  Syntact i cD ivergencesFigure 2 shows a diagram of the UNITItAN syntac-tic processing component.
The parser of this compo-nent provides a source-language syntactic structureto the lexical-semantic processor, and, after lexical-semantic processing is completed, the generator ofthis component provides a target-language syntac-tic structure.
Both the parser and generator of thiscomponent have access to the syntactic principlesof GB theory.
These principles, which act as con-straints (i.e., filters) on the syntactic structures pro-Figure 2: Design of the Syntactic Processing Com-ponentduced hy the parser and the generator, operate ontim basis of parameter settings that supply certainlauguage-specific iulbrmation; this is where syntac-tic divergences are factored out from the lexical-semantic representation.The Gll principles and parameters are organizedinto modules whtme constraints are applied in thefollowing order: (1) X, (2) Boundiug, (3) Case, (4)'iYace, (5) Ilinding, and (6) 0.
A detailed descriwtiou of these modules is provided in Dorr (1987).We will look t, riefiy at a number of these, /hens-ing on how syntactic divergences are accounted forby this approach.
Figure 3 smmnarizes the syntac-tic divergences that are revealed by the parametricvariations presented here.l2.1 Pr inc ip les  and  Parameters  of the  XModal(,"The X" constraiut module of the syntactic omponentprovides the phrase-structure representation f sen-tenees.
In particular, the fundamental principle ofthe X module is that each phrase of a sentence hasa mazimal projection, X-MAX, lor a head of cate-gory X (see tigure 4).
~ In addition to the head X, aphrasal projection potentially contaius atellites c~1,a~, ill, f12, 71, and 72, where cq attd ~2 are any nuln-ber of maximally adjoined adjuncts positioned ac-curding to the adjuaclion parameter, fll aud f12 arearguments ( ubjects aud objects) ordered accordingto the constituent order parameter, and 71 and 72are any number of minimally adjoined adjuncts p~sitioued according to the adjunctiou parameter.
3tThe syntactic divergences are enumerated with r~spect to the relevant pasametera and modules of thesyntactic omponent.
The figure illustrates the effect ofsyntactic parameter settings on tile constituent s ructurefor each language.
(In this figure, E stands for English,G for German, S for Spanish, and I for Icelandic.
)aThe possibilities for the category X are: (V)erb,(N)oua, (A)djective, (P)reptmition, (C)omplementizer,and (1)affection.
't'ite Complementizer corresponds torelative pronouns uch as that in the matt that I saw.The IntlectionM category corresponds tomodals uch aswould in 1 would eat cttke.3This is a revised version of the "X-Theory presentedin Chomsky (1981).
Tire adjunction par~ueter will notbe discussed here, but see Dorr (1987) for details.ACrEs DE COTING-92, NANTES, 23-28 ^ O~" 1992 6 2 S Paoc.
OF COL1NG-92, NANYV.S, AUO.
23-28, 1992Syntactic Divergence Examples Parameter GB ModuleE, S: V preccd?~ object constituent XG: V followe object orderE: P stranding allowed proper Gov~tS, G: No P stranding allowed governorsE, G: Fronted question word bounding Boundingbeyond |ingle sentence nodeslevel not allowedS: Fronted quenion wordbeyond single sentencelevel allowedE, G: P not ?~quired before type ofverbal object anaoci- governmentated with eliticS: p required before ver-bal object a~aociatedwith eliticE, G: Subject required in ms- null nub-trlx claule jectS: Subject not required inmatrix clau~E, S, G: Anaphor (e.g., him.
governing Bindingself) must have an- categorytecedent inside near-eta dominating clauBeAnuphor (e,g.
, siq)I: may have antecedentoutside nearest domi-nating clauseE: No empty pleonastics NDP 0allowedS: Empty pleonaatica l-lowedG: Empty pleonastics inembedded claunes onlyFigure 3: Summary  of Syntactic DivergencesX-MAX./!\.,A\,IFigure 4: Phrase-Structure RepresentationGiven this general i phrase-structure presenta-tion, we can now "fit" this template onto the phrasestructure of each language by providing the appro-priate settings for the parameters of the X module.For example, the constituent order parameter char-acterizes the word order distinctions among English,Spanish and German.
Unlike English and Spanish,German is assumed to be a subject-object-verb lan-guage that  adheres to tim verb-second requirementin matr ix  clauses (see Safir (1985)).
Thus, for thesentence 1 have seen him, we have the following con-trusting argument  structures:(2) (i) I have seen him(ii) Yo he visto a dl' I  have seen (to him)'(iii) Ich habe ihn gesehen'I have him seen'The X module builds the phrase-structure fromthe general scheme of  figure 4 and the parametersettings described above.
The principles and param-eters of the remaining modules are then applied asconstraints to the phrase-structure presentation.We will now examine ach of the remaining modulesin turn.2.2 P r inc ip les  and  Parameters  o f  theGovernment  Modu leGovernment Theory is a central notion to the Caseand Trace modules.
A familiar example of the gov-ernment principle in English is that a verb governsits object.
4 We will examine the effect of this modulein sections 2.4 and 2.5.2.3 P r inc ip les  and  Parameters  o f  theBound ing  Modu leThe Bounding module is concerned with the distancebetween pairs of co-referring elements (e.g., trace-antecedent pairs).
The fundamental  principle of thebounding module is that the distance between co-referring elements is not allowed to be more than onebounding node apart,  where the choice of boundingnodes is allowed to vary across languages.The bounding nodes parameter  setting accountsfor a syntactic divergence between Spanish and En-glish (and German):(3) ( i)* Whol did you wonder whether ti went toschool?
~(ii) LQui6n, crees tfi quet i  rue a la esenela?The reason (3)0) is ruled out is that the word whohas moved beyond two bounding nodes.
It turnsout that the corresponding Spanish sentence (3)(ii)is well-formed since the choice of bounding nodes isdifferent and only one bounding node is crossed.2,4 P r inc ip les  and  Paranaeters  o f  the  CaseModu leThe Case module is in charge of ensuring that  allnoun phrases are properly assigned abstract case(e.g., nominative, objective, etc.).
The Case Fil-ter rules out any sentence that  contains a non-case-marked noun phrase.The notion of government is relevant o case as-signment since an element assigns case only if it isa governing case-assigner.
Tile setting of the typeof government parameter  for English, Spanish, andGerman characterizes the following divergences:(4) (i) I saw Guile?
I saw to Guile(ii)* Lo vi GuilleLo vi a Guile s(iii) lch sah Gui le?
lch sah zn Guille4See Dorr (1987) for a more formal definition of thegovernment principle.sit who is spoken emphatically, this sentence can al-most be understood as an echo question corresponding tothe statement I wondered whether John went to school.AcrEs DE COLING-92, NANteS, 23-28 ^ O~" 1992 6 2 6 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 19922.5 Pr inc ip les  and  Parameters  of  the  TraceModu leAfter case has been assigned, the Trace moduleapplies the empty category principle (ECP) whichchecks for proper government of empty elements.The ECP is parameterized by means of the null sub-ject parameter.
As discussed in section 1, the nullsubject parameter accounts for the null subject dis-tinction between Spanish, on the one hand, and F,n-glish and German on the other:(5) (i) Vo vi ellibroVi el libro(ii) I saw the book* Saw the book(iii) Ich salt das Buch* Sah das BuchArt additional parameter that is relevant o theTrace module is the proper governors parame-ter.
The choice of proper governor accounts forpreposition-stranding distinctions in the three lan-guages:(t;) (i) \[mMxx What store\]i did John go to ti?
r(fi)* \[N.IdaX Cu~I tienda\]i rue Juan a ti?
(iii)* \[mMAX Welchem Geseha.ft\]i geht Johannzu ti?2.6  Pr inc ip les  and  Parameters  o f  theBind ing  Modu leThe Binding module is tire final module applied be-fore thematic roles are assigned.
This module is con-cerned with the coreference relations among nounphrases, and it is dependent on the governing cat-egory parameter, which specifies that a governingcategory for a syntactic onstituent is (roughly) thenearest dominating clause that has a subject.
Thisparameter happens to have the same setting for En-glish, Spanish, and German, but see Dorr (1987) fora description of other settings of this parameter (e.g.,for Icelandic) based on work by Wexler & Manzini(1986),2.7 P r inc ip les  and  Parameters  o f  the  0Modu leThe 0 module provides the interface between thesyntactic omponent and the lexical-aemantic com-ponent.
In particular, the assignment of themalicroles (henceforth 0-roles) after parsing leads into theconstruction of the interlingual form.The fundamental principle of the 0 module is theO-Criterion which states that a lexical head musteAs noted in Jaeggli (1981), animate objects (e.g.,Guille) are a~ociated with a clitic pronoun (e.9., Io)only in certain dialects such as that of the River Platearea of South America.7The t~ constituent is a trace that corresponds to thenoun phrase that has been moved to the front of thesentence.2~ L .
/  _ _ \Figure ,5: Design of the Lexieal-Semantic Compo~Ilentassign 0-roles in u unique one-to-one correspondencewith the argument positions pecified in thc lexicalentry for the head.
One of the parameters ax~oci-ated with the 0 \[nodule is the unto-drop paradigm(NDP) parameter (based on work by Safir (1985)).This parameter accounts for the distinction betweenEnglish, on the one hand, and Spanish and German,on the other hand, with respect o the subject of anembedded clause:(7) (i) * 1 know that was dancing(ii) Yo sd que hahfa un halle'1 know that (there) was a dance'(iii) Ich weill, daft getanzt wurde'I know that (there) wa~ dancing'Ones all 0-roles are assigned, the lexical-semanticcomponent of the translator composes the interlin-gual representation for the source and target lan-guage.
The next section will describe the lexical-semantic omponent, and it will show how this com~l)onent accounts for a number of divergences outsideof the reahn of syntax.3 Toward  a Cata log  o fLex ica I -Semant ic  D ivergencesFigure 5 shows a diagram of the UNITRAN lexical-semantic processing component.
A detailed descrip-tion of the lexical conccplual structure (LCS) whichserves as the interlingua is not given here, but seeDorr (1990b) for further discussion, s81n general, the LCS representation follows the for-mat proposed by Jackeudoff (1983, 1990) which viewssemautic representation as a subset of conceptual struc-ture.
Jackeudoff's approach includes such notious asEvent and State, which are specialized into primitivessuch as (30, STAY, BE~ GO-EXT, aud ORIENT.
As anexample of how the primitive GO is used to representsentence semantics, consider the following sentence:(s) (i) The ball rolled toward Beth.
(ii) \]Event GO (\[Thing BALI.l,\[Pith TO(lPolitioa AT(\[Thlas BALI,l, \[Thin~ BI~TII\])I)\])IThis representation illustrate~ one dimension (i.e., thespatial dimension) of J~vckendoff's representation.
An-other dimension is the causal dimension, which includesACTES DE COLING-92.
NANTES, 23-28 AOt'n' 1992 6 2 7 l'e, OC.
OV COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992Diuergence Examples \[ (Parameter)E: enter: John entered Structuralthe house (*)S: entrar: Juan entr6en la  cMaG: (hinein)treten: J~harm trat ina HaushineinE: like: I like Mary ThematicS: gustar: Me gusts (:INT, :EXT)MariaG: 9efallen: MariegefKIIt mirE: be: I am hungry CategorialS: tener: Yo tengo (:CAT)hambreG; hubert: lch habeHungerE: like: 1 like eating DemotionalS: gustar: Me gusta (:DEMOTE)comerG: gem: Ich ~ gemE: usually: John usu- Promotionalally goea home (:PROMOTE)S: soler: Juan auele ira cMaG: gewJhnlich: Johanngeht gewShnlichnach HauaeE: stab: I stabbed John ConflatioaalS: dar: Yo le di (:CONFLATED)pufialadaa a JuanG: erJtechen: lch er-atach JohannLinkingrulel\]inkingruleCS'RLinkingruleLinkingruleLinkingruleFigure 6: Summaryof Lexical-Semantie DivergencesWhat  is important  to recognize about tiffs pro-ceasing component is that, just as the syntacticcomponent relies on parameterizat ion to accountfor source-to-target divergences, o does the lexical-semantic omponent.
The parameterizat ion f thiscomponent is specified by means of language-specificlexical override markers associated with the LCSmapping betweeu the syntactic structure and the in-terlingua.We will look briefly at the principles and parame-ters of the lexical-semantic component, focusing onhow a number of divergences are accounted for bythis approach.
Figure 6 summarizes the lexical-semantic divergences that are revealed by the para-metric variations presented here.
9the primitives CAUSE and LET.
A third dimension isintroduced through the notion of f ield.
This dimensionextends the semantic overage of spatially oriented prim-itives to other domains uch as Posssssional, Temporal,Identificational, Circumstantial, and Existeutial.9The divergences are enumerated with respect tothe relevant principles and parameters of the lexical-semantic omponent.
In contrast o the summary of syn-tactic divergences in figure 3, which enumerates the effectof syntactic pixameter settings on constituent structure,the list of divergences presented here is specified in termsof the effect of LCS parameter settings on the realizationof specific lexical items.X-MAX X ~o I X-MAX a 2 / \i.
Syntactic specifier (/gh C B1 0 D2)O l,ogical subject (filL)2.
Syntactic omplements ()ill O~2 - P~)O Logical arguments (B~U B~ - fl~.)S.
Syntactic adjuncts (al O a 2 o "rl O "/2)O Logical Modifiers (a~ U a~ U ~i  u 7~)4.
Syn~tic head (X)O Logical head (X I)Figure 7: LCS Linking Rule Between the SyntacticStructure and the Interl inguayutactic 'atcgory~VZNTSTATETHINGPROPERTYPATHPOSITIONLOCATIONTIMEMANNERADVADVADVINTENSIFIER ADVPURPOSE ADVFigure 8: C,S~ Correspondence Between LCS Typeand Syntactic Category3.1 P r inc ip les  and  Parameters  o f  theLex ica l -Semant ic  ComponentThe algorithm for mapping between the syntacticstructure and the interl ingua relies on the outputof #-role assigmnent (in the analysis direction) andfeeds into 0-role assignment (in the synthesis direc-tion).
Tile 0-roles represent positions in the LCSrepresentations of lexical entries associated with theinput words.
Thus, the construction of the interlin-gun is essentially a unification process that  is guidedby the pointers left behind by 0-role assignment.The mapping, or l ink ing rule between the syn-tactic positions and the positions of the LCS rep-resentation is shown in figure 7.
In terms of 0-roleassignment, he phrasal head X assigns #-roles cor-responding to positions in the LCS associated withX j.
For example, the syntactic subject Bk is assignedthe logical subject position fl~ in the LCS.
Once allthese roles have been assigned, the interlingual rep-resentation is composed simply by reenrsively fillingthe arguments of tile predicate into their assignedLCS positions.ACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOtYr 1992 6 2 8 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUO.
23-28, 1992Ill addition to tile LCS linking rule, there isanother general rule associated with tile lexical=semantic omponent: the canonical syntaclie repre-schist\]on (CSW,.)
function.
This fmtction associatesan LCS type (e.g., TIIIIII3) with a syntactic ategory(e.g., N-MAX)  (see figure 8).The LCS Linking rule and the CS~ functionare the two fundmnental principles of the lexical=semantic omponent.
In order to account for lexical-semantic divergenc~, these principles nmst be pa-rameter\]zeal.
In general, translation divergences oc-cur when there is all exception to one (or both)of these principles in one language, but not in theother.
Titus, the lexical entries have bccn con-structed to support parametric variation that accounts for such exceptions.
The parameters are usedin lexical entries as overrides for tile LCS linking ruleand (JS~ function.
We will now examine xamplesof how each parameter is used.3.1.1 %' ParameterThe '*' parameter refers to an LG'S position that issyntactically realizable in the surfitce sentence.
Thisparameter accounts for sSructural divergence:(9) (i) John entered the house(ii) Juan entr6 en la casa'John entered (into) the house'Here, the Spanish sentence diverges structurallyfrom the English sentence since the noun phrase (thehouse) is realized as a prepositional phrase (en lacuss).
In order to account for this divergence, thelexicon uses tile * marker ill the LCS representationassociated with the lexical entries for enter and en-trnr.
This marker specifies tim pbrasal level at whictlan argument will be projected: in tile Spanish lexicalentry, the marker is associated with all LCS positionthat is realized at a syntactically higher phrasal levelthan that of tile English lexical entry.3.1.2 : INT and  :EXT  ParametersThe :INT and :EXT paraineters allow tile I,CSlinking rule to be overridden by associating a logicalsubject with a syntactic omplement aud a logicalargument with a syntactic subject.
A t)o~iblc effectof using these parameter settings is that there is asubject-object reversal during translation.
Such areversal is called a thematic divergcuee:(10) (i) I like Mary(ii) Me gnats Maria'Mary pleases me'tlere, the subject of the source-language s ntence,I, is translated into all object position, and the ob-ject of the source-language sentence Maria is trans-lated into a subject position.
Ill order to accouut forthis divergence, the lexicon uses the :INT and :EXTmarkers in the LCS representation associated withthe lexieal entries for gustar.
The English lexiealentry does not contain thesc markers ince tile LCSlinking rule does not need to be overridden in thiscase.3.1.3 :CAT ParameterThe :(~AT lllarker provides a syntactic categoryfor all LCS argument.
Recall that the CS'K functionmaps all LCS type to a syntactic ategory (see fig-ure 8).
When this mapping is to bc overridden bya lexicaI entry, the language-specific marker :CAT isused,This parameter accounts for categorial divergence:(11) (i) 1 am hungry(ii) ich hahe Hunger'l have hsnger ~llere, not only are tl~e predicates be and hubert lexi-cally distinct, but the arguments of these two pred-icates are categorially divergent: ill English, the ur-gmnent is all adjectival phrase, and, ill German, theargument is a noun phrmse.
?~'bc :CAT marker isused in the Gernmn definition to force the PROP-EWFY al'glnln~nt tO be realized as a norm rather thanan adjective.
Thus, the (2S~ function is overriddendaring realization of tile word Hunger in this exam-pie.3.1 .4  :DEMOTE and :PROMOTE~lar~tln(~t \[Jr sThe :I)EMOTE and :PROMOTE markers, likethe :INT and :EXT markers, allow the LCS linkingrule to be overridden by iL~sociating a logical headwith a syntactic adjunct or complement.
These lla -t'ameters account, respectively, for demoiioual diver-gence:(12) (i) 1 like to eat(ii) lch ease gem'I eat likingly'and promotional divergence:(13) (i) John usually goes home(ii) Juan sselc ir a I:zLsa~Johlt teltds to go home'in the first case, thc English main verb like cor-responds to tile adjunct geru in German, and theembedded verb eat corresponds to the main verbessen in German.
Ill the second case, tile Englishadjunct usually corresponds to the main verb solerin Spanish.
'Fhese "head switching" divergences areacconnnodated analogously: the :\])EMOTE markeris used in the lexical entry tot ger~t and the :PRO-MO'l'l,; ~.vker is used in the lexical entry for soler.3.1.5 :C .ONFLATED ParameterThe sixth LCS parameter is tile :GONI"LATEDmarker.
This marker is used tbr indicating thata particular argument need not be realized in tilesurhtcc representation.
This parameter accounts forcouflational divergence aa in the sentence I stabbedJohn (see (1) from section 1).
In this example, theAcrEs DE COL1NG=92, NANTES, 23-28 A?
)t~l 1992 6 2 9 I)ROC.
OV COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992Ulass o?
VerbPosition~nge o o .
, t lo~" - -I~irec ted Motion"Mo'tion with MannerExchangePhy$icM StateCh'anse ot  Phy*icalState/brient atlongxittenceCircumstanceRouseIntentionPerteption andCommunicationMenial ProceuCoatLoad/SprayContact /E lectLextcal Prsm|t|~es9TAY.TEMP, STAY-LOC, BF.TgMP,DE.LOC~Q-LOC, GO-TEMPGO-LOC, Go.PaSSGO.LOCCAUSE*EXCHANGEEE-IDENT, STAY-IDENTGO-IDENTO~IENT-LOC .
.
.
.EE-\],~XIST, GO.EXIST, STAY-EXISTBE.CIRC, GO-CIRC, STAY-ClUe-G"c~- EXT- IDENT, OO-EX~, - -GO-EXT-LOCORIENT-CIRC, ORIENT-TEMPB~POS9, STAY-POSS- -  7~E:IDENTHEAP~-P~RC, SEE-PERCB~- PEn.C, GO.PERCORIENT-IDENTGO-LOCFigure 9: Coverage of LexicaI-Semantic Pr imit ivesargument  that is incorporated in the English sen-tence is the \[IIIFE-I/0tlND argument  since the verbstab does not realize this argument;  by contrast, theSpanish construction dar  pn~ialadas a explicitly re-alizes this argument  as the word pnCLaladas.
Thns,the :CONFLATED marker is associated with theI~IiIFE-WOUI~ argument  in the case of stab,  but notin the ease of dar .4 Evaluation and CoverageOne of the main criteria used for evaluation of theparameter izat ion framework described herc is theease with which lexieal entries may be automatical lyacquired from on-line resources.
While testing theframework against this metric, a number of resultshave been obtained, including the discovery of a fun-damental  relationship between the lexical-semantiepr imit ives and aspectnal information.
This  relation-stlip is crucial for demonstrat ing the snceess of theparameter izat ion approach with respect to lexicalacquisition.
Details about the lexical acquisitionmodel and results are presented in Dart  (1992).We have already examined the syntactic andlexieal-semantic coverage of the system (see figures 3and 6 above).
The linguistic coverage of the lexiconis summarized in figure 9.5 ConclusionThe translat ion model described here is built onthe basis of a parametr ic  approach; thus, it is easyto change from one language to another (by set-t ing syntactic and lexical switches for each language)without having to write a whole new processor foreach language.
This  is an advance over other ma-chine translat ion systems that require at least onelanguage-8pecific processing module for each source-language/targetolanguage pair.The approach is interl ingual: an underlyinglanguage-independent form of the source language isderived, and any of the three target languages, Span-ish, English, or German,  can be produced from thisform.
Perhaps the most important  advance of UNI-TRAN is the mapp ing  between the lexical-semantielevel and the syntactic level.
In particular, tile 8ys~tern has been shown to select and realize the appro-priate target- language words, despite the potentialfor syntactic and lexical divergences.
The key to be-ing able to provide a systematic  mapp ing  betweenlanguages is modular i ty:  because the system hasbeen partit ioned into two different processing levels,there is a deeoupling of the syntactic and lexicalosemantic decisions that are made during the trans-lation process.
Titus, syntactic and LCS parametersett ings may be specified for each language withouthindering the processing that  produces, and gener-ates from, the interl ingual form.6 ReferencesChomeky, Noam A.
(1981) Lectures an Government and Bind-ing, Forts Publieations~ Dordrecht.Choranky, Noam A.
(1982) ~Some Concepts and Consequences ofthe Theory of Government and Binding," MIT PresLDorr, Bonnie J.
(1987) "UNITRAN: A Principle-Ba~d App~achto Machine Translation," AI Technical Report 1000, MMterof Science thesis, Department of Electrical Engineering andComputer Science, Mauachusetts Institute of Technology.Dorr, Bonnie J.
(1990a) "Solving Thematic Divergences in Ma-chine Tranalationp" Proceedings of the ?8th Annual Confer-ence of the Association for Computational Linguistics, Uni-verlity of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, 127-134.Dart, Bonnie J.
(1990b) "A Croda-Linguistic Approach to Ma-chine Translation," Proceedings o\] the Third InternationalConference on Theoretical and Methodological Issues in Ma.chine Translation of Natural Languages, Linguistics ResearchCenter, The Univerlity of Texai, Austin, TX, 13-32.Dorr, Bonnie J.
(1992) "A Parameterized Approach to \]ntegrat-in K Aspect with Lexical-Semantics for Mwehine Translation,"Proceedings of the 3Oth Annual Conference of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics, University of Delaware,Newark, DE.Hale, Kenneth and M. Laughren (1983) "Warlpiri LexiconProject: Warlpiri Diction~,ry Entries," Mm~achusetts Instituteof Technology, Cambridge , MA, Warlpiri Lexicon Project.Hale, Kennetb and Jay Keyaer (1986a) "Some qYansitivity Al-ternations in English," Center for Cognitive Science, MEte.sachuaetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, LexiconProject Working Papers #7.Hale, Kenneth and J. Keyler (1986b) "A View from the Middle,"Center for Cognitive Science, Ma~achuaetts Institute of Tech-nology, Cambridge, MA, Lexicon Project Working Papern #10.Jackendoff, Ray S. (1983) Semantics and Cognition, MIT Pre~a~Cambridge, MA.Jackendoff, Ray S. (1990) Semantic Structures, MIT  preaa~ Cam-bridge, MA.Jaeggli , Osv~ldo Adolfo (1981) Topics in tlomanee Syntax, FortsPublications, Dordrecht, Holland/Cinnaminaon, USA.Levis, Beth and Malka Rappaport (1986) "The Forn\]ation of Ad-jectival Passives," Linguistic Inquiry 17, 623-662.S~flr, Ken (1985) "Missing Subjects in German," in Studies inGerman Grammar, Toman, Jindlfich (ed.
), Foria Publications,Dordrecht, Holland/Cinnaminnon, USA, 19::1-229.Wexler, Kenneth and M. Rite Manzini (1986) "Parameters andl.earnability in Binding Theory," pr~ented at tbe Go#nitiueScience Seminar, MIT,  September, Cambridge, MA.Zubiaarreta, Maria Luis~ (1987) Leveb of Representation i theLexicon and in the Syntax~ Foris Publications, Dordrecht, Hol-land/Cinnaminmon, USA.Acr~.s DE COLING-92, NAbrrES, 23-28 AO~-~' 1992 6 3 0 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992
