Generat ion of Informative Texts with StyleStephan M. Kerped j ievInstitute of MathematicsAcad.
G. Bonchev St., BI.81113 Sofia, BulgariaAbst ract :  An approach to the computational treatmentof style is presented in the case of generation of informativetexts.
We regard the style mestly as a me,as of controlledselection of alternatives faced at each level of text generation.The generation technique, as well as the style specification,are considered at four levels - -  content production, discoursegeneration, surface structure development, and lexicai choice.A style is specified by the frequency of occurrence of certainfeatures examined through observation of particular texts.The algorithm for text generation ensures efficient reatmentof the style requirements.1 I n t roduct ionThe manner of presentation, i.e.
the repeating patternof expression produced by a given subject or ill a certaincommunity, is known as style.
Thus each newspaperrenders the weather information in n specific style byadopting n particular scheme of presentation.
We as-sume that a text generator, like humans, should has itsown style.
Furthermore, we regard the style as a meansto control the selection of particular constructs amongthe great variety provided by the language.
In this pa-per, we study what defines a style and how a systemcould produce texts with style.The problem is tackled in the framework of text gener-ation created by some of the pioneering works in the field\[9,10\].
According to this framework, the process of gen-eration is considered at four levels: content production,discourse planning, surface structure generation and lex-ical choice.
We trace out the features that characterizethe texts generated from a given content portion in thecase of informative texts (introduced in section 2) andshow how they can be treated eomputationally.
For illus-tration of our considerations we make use of the class ofweather reports - -  informative texts about which a gooddeal of material has been collected, mostly through MF,-TEOVIS - -  an experimental system for handling multi-modal weather eports.The development of the METEOVIS project beganwith the transformation of weather forecasts from textto map \[5\].
Then we studied the conversion of weatherforecast texts into texts with another discourse structureor in another language \[6\].
This year, the system was re-designed so that multimodal weather products could begenerated from dntasets \[7\].
The domain specific knowl-edge was isolated in knowledge bases (terminological,rhetorical and grammatical), and the processing mod-ules were made independent from the subject domainas much as possible.
At this point we became awarethat additional information was necessary to producehigh quality texts.
Thus we came to the notion of stylewhich was later on generalized to the ease of informativetexts.2 I n fo rmat ive  textsThe considerations in this paper refer to a particularcategory of texts which 1 call informative texts.
Exam-pies, in addition to the weather eports, are war com-munique,  summaries on the ecological situation over agiven region, etc.
An informative text describes a phe-nomenon or a situation, either observed or predicted.
Itconsists of assertions, each one relating an event, obser-vation or prediction to a given location and time period.Informative texts differ from descriptive texts (stud-ied in \[113\]) in that they are not intended to create per-manent long-term memory traces about certain concep-tual structures; instead, they draw a mental picture ofa particular situation.
Informative texts differ also frominstructional (operative) texts in that they are not asso-ciated with particular actions on the part of the reader(a lot of studies on instructional texts have been car-ried out, consider e.g.
\[8\]).
Informative texts are a typeof objective narrative texts well-classified by their sub-jeet domains (e.g.
weather, ecology) and inheriting fromthose domains properly devised models.The source information for the generation of an infor-mative text is a dataset produced by an application pro-gram or collected by humans.
The dataset encodes thesituation comprehensively according to a certain modelcreated to support he research and practical work in thecorresponding field.
Usually, that model defines the pa-rameters, both quantitative and qualitative, that char-acterize the phenomena concerned, as well as some rela-tions between parameters.Since each assertion specifies the value of a param-eter referred to a particular location and time period,territory aud time models are employed as well.
Theydefine the granularity of the territory and the time axis,and certain relations between time periods or regions(e.g.
inclusion, partial order, neighbourhood, paths ofregions).
Depending on the size of grain, either tem-poral or spatial, the assertions are characterized witha certain degree of imprecision which, if greater than agiven threshold, has to be explicitly stated in order toprevent he renders from getting mislead.The predictive character of some informative texts re-quires that the assertions are marked with the probabil-ity of their occurrence.
Similarly to imprecision, this in-formation, called certainty, is necessary for the creationof a proper picture of the situation being presented.Acr~ DE COL1NG-92.
NANT~, 23-28 ^ ot~" 1992 ifl 2 4 Puoc.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES.
Ago.
23-28, 19923 Style of informat ive textsThe concept of style is fundamental in this work.
Inthe light of NL generation systems, the style is a meansof adapting the system to a particular manner of textformulation, thus making possible the expression of thesame content portion as different exts, according to theavailable styles.In \[2\] an approach to tim computational treatmentof style is suggested in the case of machine translation.The internal stylistics of the source language is used todetermine the specilic goals of style such as clarity orconcreteness; then the comparative stylistics for tile twolanguages i employed to infer tile corresponding stylegoals of the target text; anti finally, the internal stylis-tics of the target language says how to construct hetarget text so that the inferred goals be acbieved.
Therelationship between stylistic and syntactic features isexpressed through stylistic grammars.Our approach to using style features in text generationis similar to tile approach in \[9\].
Both allow adopting oneor another generation alternative on the basis of certainstylistic rules.
Unlike our approach, however, their rulesdefine the preferences explicitly (we use features distri-butions) and concern only the surface structure develop-ment (we cover all levels of text generation).
"lb provide an evidence for the existence of styles ininformative texts, we observed a number of weatherforecasts published in different newspapers in three lan-guages --- Bulgarian, English and R.ussian.
Samples ofsuch texts are given below (the translations from Bul-garian and Russian into English preserve the features ofthe original texts as much as possible):qbday it will be cloudy.
In many portions it willdrizzle, turning into snow over the regions higherthan 500 m above the sea level...Outlook for Friday: The rain will stop and it willclear gradually.Trud (translated from Bulgarian)ltaln in south-east England will soon clear anti withthe rest of sonthern and central England and Walesthe day will be mainly dry.
floweret, further rainis likely in southernmost counties by midnight ... Itwill feel cool everywhere in the strong winds whichwill reach gale force in the seuth-east.~17te TimesMuch of Britain will be dry with sunny spells butsouth-west England, the Channel Islands and northand west Scotland will be nmstly cloudy with show-cry r~n ...
Reasonably warm in sunnier parts ofthe West, but cool, especially on the east coast.ObserverIn Moscow, warm weather will remain with occa-sional rain.
Temperatures in the night from 0 to -5Centigrade, in the day about 0.In Leningrad, occasional rain, temperatures in thenight from -3 to +2 Centigrade, in the day 0 - 4.In Irkutsk region, snow, snowstorm, temperature~in the day from -8 to -13 Centigrade.
Towards theweekend the temperatures will fall by 4 - 6 degrees.lzvestia (translated front Russian)The Bulgarian weather forecasts are usually organizedin two paragraphs corresponding to the first and thesecond day of the forecast.
The sentences most oftenare simple.
Complex and compound sentences occurrarely but in various types: complex sentences witha main and a relative clause connected by the adver-bial phrases 'where' and 'when'; compound sentenceswith co-ordinating co ,  unctions of addition 'and', co-occurrence 'with',  or contrast 'but ' .
The use of imper-sonal verbs ('it will be', 'it will rain') is typical whereasverbless entences are rather an exclusion than a norm.Ill English forecasts, impersonal verb phrases arerarely used; instead, the formal subject of the sentencesmost often is the region or the weather element, andless frequently - -  the time period.
Compound sentencesare used intensively for assertions with opposite weathervalues connected by tile co-ordinating conjunction forcontrast 'but '  (cf.
the forecast from Observer).In \]zvesfia, because of the large area of this country,tile text is almcet alays structured by regions and allthe weather information about a given region is renderedin one long compound sentence tile constituents of whichare laconic, verbless clauses divided by commas.
Com-plex sentences rarely occur.The features of the observed weather forecast textsallow us to summarize the basic properties that charac-terize a style:w the extent to which details are provided;* text organization (by regions, time periods, etc.
);o the prevalent ypes of sentences according to \[1\](simple, complex, compound);, tile prevalent length of sentences (short, medium,long);, the most typical patterns of surface structures;, the lexical entries preferred in the expression of theassertions elements.Sittce style features are regarded as typical, prevalent,preferred, they should be defined through the frequenciesof their occurrence rather than as obligatory character-istics.4 Text generat ionIll this section we concisely introduce the principles andtechniques of text generation employed in METEOVISand, as I believe, relevant o other kinds of informativetexts.
Along with this, we show how one or anotheralternative is selected on the basis of certain stylisticrules.4.1 Content productionThe content production (CP) component generates theset of assertions from a dataset using domain-specifictechniques.
In METEOVIS, we employed weather veri-fication techniques that match the generated set of as-sertions with the dataset and evaluate the precision ofthe set as a whole.Although CP is not responsible for the logical consis-tency of tile set of assertions, it is guaranteed that thereare no serious contradictions.
An example of a weaklyinconsistent set of two assertions is given below:Acrl.
'.s Dl~ COLING-92, NANTEs, 23-28 AOt~r 1992 1 0 2 5 PROC.
O1: COLING-92, N^I~q'ES, AUG. 23-28, 1992<clouda=broken, ragion=Bul, tiae=today><clouds=claar, og:Lon=\]Ig_Bul, tilau=noon>This type of inconsistency, easily resolved by the readers,is inevitable because of the roughness of the territory andtime models.
If we required that the generated set ofassertions be absolutely uncontradictory, wemight loosecompleteness ( ome territories or time periods remainuncovered) or conciseness.A style feature at the CP level is the extent to whichdetails are provided - -  from summary information onlyto the finest detail.
It is specified by any of the termssummary, normal or detailed.
In the case of summaryinformation one assertion is extracted for each weatherattribute.
A detailed style requires that the set of as-sertions giving the highest precision rate is extracted,without any restrictions on the number of assertions.The extraction of normal information is limited to nomore than (1 + d)/2 assertions giving the highest preci-sion rate, where d is the number of assertions that wouldbe extracted if the style were detailed.4.2  D iscourse  generat ionThe assertions generated can immediately be trans-formed into simple NL sentences, but the text obtainedmost probably will be awkward, unorganized and inefll-cient.
In order to be coherent, a text has to be organizedaccording to rhetorical schemas that take into accountsemantic relations between entities presented iu the text\[3,10\].
Thus the user will perceive the information withminimal cognitive ffort.For the generation of discourse structures, we employseven rhetorical schemas based on certain semantic re-latious \[7\]:Parameter progression.
An assertion about a given pa-rameter cannot interpose a sequence of assertionsconcerning another parameter.From a summary to details.
An assertion with a regionand a time period containing the regiou and thetime period of another assertion is conveyed beforethe second assertion.Temporal progression.
The assertions are ordered by thesuccessive time intervals they pertain to.Spatial progression.
The assertions are arranged in sucha way that their regions, if taken in this order, makea path defined in the territory model.Coupling related values.
Assertions with co-occurringvalues are rendered in a group.Contrast.
Two assertions with opposite values are con-veyed together to contrast with each other.Value progression.
The assertions about a given param-eter with an ordered domain are conveyed in suc-cessive groups relating to the particular values.For each rhetorical schema there is a rule which de-cides whether the schema is applicable to a given setof assertions, and if it is, structures the set accordingly.This is a hierarchical top-down process tarting from theoriginal set of assertions and resulting in a complete dis-course structure of the text represented as a tree.
Theterminals correspond to the assertions and each noderepresents he discourse relation existing between its suc-cessors; hence the root represents he discourse structureat the highest level.
We also regard the nodes as chunksof assertions that have to be rendered in a group.The following properties ay how the discourse struc-ture influences the surface structure:P roper ty  1.
Each sentence presents all assertions ofa given chunk.P roper ty  2.
The order of tile sentences follows theleft-to-right order of the chunks of the discoursetree.P roper ty  3.
For each type ofdiscourse structure (tem-poral progression, related values, etc.
), there aresentence grammars each of which can convert thecorresponding set of assertions into a sentence sur-face structure.A style at the discourse level specifies the rhetoricalschemas applicable at each level of discourse generation.For example, the following specificationI sPSt-Progr( W-BuI, C-Bul, E-Bul) l1 : spat_progr(N_Bul, S_Bul)temp_progr( day_l , day_?
)2 : relate3 : par-progr(clouds, precip, wind, temp)4 : anyimplies that at the highest level, one of the two spa-tial progressions (by the paths West, Central and EastBulgaria or North and South Bulgaria) or the temporalprogression by the two days of the forecast, should beapplied, depending on the set of assertions.
Thus if itis better stratified by the time periods day_l and day_2than by the two paths of regions, then the temporal pro-gression will be applied, else - -  one of the two spatialprogressions.
At the second level, all assertions withrelated values will be coupled into indivisible chunks.At the next level, parameter progression should be em-ployed to further break down the chunks obtained as aresult of the previous divisions.
Finally, for each termi-nal chunk the schema that best applies to it will be usedto complete the corresponding subtree.4 .3  Sur face  s t ructure  deve lopmentOne of the major problems in the creation of informativetexts is how to avoid text monotony.
Perhaps it is thepoorly designed surface structure that most of all con-tributes to the monotony of a text.
The ever repeatingsanto sentence pattern makes the text artificial, awkwardand boring for the reader.
Adversely, a text with diversesurface structure, expressive function words, alternatingshort and lout sentences helps the reader perceive theimportant elements quickly, extract and memorize thefacts, and enjoy the proper pace of reading.Partially the surface structure of a sentence is pre-determined by the current discourse unit through thecorrespondence discourse structure ---, possible grammarsintroduced in Property 3, section 4.2.
The main vehiclefor the selection of one or another syntactic structurefrom the great variety offered by the grammar is the fo-cussing medlanism.
The idea is that a sentence shouldACRES DE COLING-92, NAN'n~s.
23-28 AO~" 1992 I 0 2 6 PROC.
Or: COLING-92.
NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992begin with some concepts or objects already introduced(topic) and end with new information about them (fo-cus) \[3,4,10\].tlere we put forward a treatment of the focussingmechanism applicable to the generation of informativetexts.
According to the particular discourse structure,one of the assertion elements - -  parameter, time pe-riod or region - -  should be the topic of the current sen-tence.
For example, in a spatial progression, it is thepath of regions that is the common element of the asser-tions unified in the chunk and this path is representedin the separate assertions by their regions.
Therefore, itis natural to construct the corresponding sentences withthe regions being their topics.
This decision puts addi-tional constraints on the possible grammars convertingthe chunk contents into a text surface structure.Even though the discourse structure and the focussingmechanism restrict o a large extent the po~ible surfacestructures provided by the grammar, still more than onealternatives may exist.
At this point the style decideswhich alternative is most suitable as a surface structureof the current chunk.
For example, a discourse structureof type contrast is a very appealing pre-condition forthe creation of a compound sentence iu which the con-stituent clauses (correspmlding to the assertions linkedby the contrast relation) are connected by the conjunc-tion 'but' .
However, the creation of two simple sentenceswithout any function words is acceptable as well.
It isjust a question of style to make oue or another decision- whether a simple or a compound sentence is preferredat this point, if some of the potential surface structureshave priority over the others, which function word is pre-ferred to lead a sentence or to connect wo clauses, etc.The style features at surface level supported by thesystem are sentence type, sentence length and syntacticroles of the assertions elements.
These features charac-terize the style with different levels of detail.
Thus aspecification of the sentence type or length provides lessdetail than a specification of the syntactic roles.Sentence type is specified by the frequencies of thesimple, compound and complex sentences.
For example,the statement:simple : 0.5 \]sentence_type = compound : 0.3complex : 0.2is understood as an instruction for minimizing the func-tion:r : V~.= 0.5) ~ + (Y = 0.3) ~ + (z - 0.2) ~where x, y, and z are the portions of the simple, com-pound anti complex sentences, respectively, in the ac-tually generated text.
As a result, about half of thesentences in the final form should be simple, 3/10 - -compound, and 1/5 - -  complex.Sentence length is treated in a similar manner by spec-ifying the frequencies of the short, medimn attd long sen-tences.
A sentence is considered short, if it contains atmost 4 entities (parameter values, regions or time peri-ods); medium - -  between 5 and 8 entities; mid long - -more than 8 entities.Syntactic roles are specified by enumerating the al-lowed sentence patterns together with their relative fre-quencies as follows:syntactic_roles = g2 : f2g.
: I .where f t ,h , .
.
.
, f ,  are the relative frequencies for thegrammars gl, g'~,..., g , ,  respectively.
This specificationmakes the system minimize the function:r= ~- - f l )  ~+(x2- f2) 2+...+(zn-fn) 2where x I, x~,..., ~, are the portions of sentences actuallygenerated by means of grammam gl,  g~, .--, gn.Only one of the features entence_type, sentence_lengthand syntactic_roles should be specified, for there are cer-tain co-relations between them mad the specifications oftwo features may contradict each other.The following algorithm for surface structure genera-tion makes use of Properties 1, 2 and 3 of the discoursetree (ef.
section 4.2), the focussing mechanism and thestyle requirements.The process begins with counting all grammars thatimplement the chunks of the discourse tree as sentences,using the correspondence discourse str icture ~ possiblegrammars.
Those grammars form the current stock ofcandidates which in the process of generation of the sur-face structure is updated as specified in stelm 5 and 6below.
The generation proceeds in a loop as follows.1.
For each chunk on the path from the root to theleft-most erminal, the grammars candidates to im-plement he chunk are considered.2.
Those grammars that do not satisfy the focussingcondition are left out of consideration.3.
The final selection is performed taking into ac-count the style specification.
Suppose that thestyle specifies n sentence type* with frequency ratesf t ,  f2, ..., f ,  and the portions of these sentence typesin the current stock are el, s2,..., sn, resp.
Then thesystem ~lects from the remaining candidates thegrammar of type k satisfying the conditions:fk - sk = max( f t  -- Sl ..... f .
-- an),f~ > O, sk > O.The heuristics behind this rule is "select the gram-mar that best compromises the frequency rate spec-ified by the style and the deficiency rate in the cur-rent stock".4.
The set of assertions constituting the correspondingchunk is converted into the surface structure of asentence through the selected grammar.5.
The discourse tree is pruned by removing the sub-tree rooting at the chunk that  was converted into asurface structure and the grammars correspondingto this subtree are deducted from the current stock.6.
The portion of grammar candidates deducted fromthe current stock is subtracted from the frequencyrate f+ of the selected sentence grammar,  and theportions st,  s~, ..., sn ace re-calculated.Acids DE COLING-92, NANtl~S.
23-28 A?
)~rf 1992 1 0 2 7 PROC.
OF COLING-92.
NANTES, AUG. 23-28.
19927.
Steps 1-6 are repeated until the discourse tree isexhausted.The selection of a surface structure as described aboveavoids the combinatorial explosion expected uring theexamination of the minimizing conditions.
This effi-ciency is achieved at the expense of a looser treatment ofthose conditions.
Thus the technique nsures an actualdistribution of the surface features that is sufficientlyclose but not necessary the closest o the distributionspecified.
The only drawback of the algorithm is ob-served when short texts are generated.
Then the surfacestructures with low frequency rates either tend to ap-pear at the end of the text or are not generated at all.4.4 Lexical choiceThe last step in text generation is the linearization of thesurface structure into a string.
METEOVIS makes use ofa phrasal exicon to replace the terminals of the surfacestructure tree with entries from the lexicon using theterminal's type and value as a key.
The freedom givento the generator at this level of processing allows it tochoose from two or more synonyms for the same entity.For example, the following strnctureadv_region --~prep(' in') reg_mod( much ) prep(' of') noun( Bul)can be linearized as 'in many portions of the country','in much of Bulgaria ', etc.
The style may give preferenceto one of these expressions specifying the frequency ofeach member of the synonymous groups reg_mod(much)and noun(Bul).Similarly to the selection of sentence grammars, thelexieal choice between synonyms is made on the basis ofa distribution specified by the style.
Thus the statement\ [much :0.5 \]tea_rood(much) = many portions : 0.25many parts : 0.25specifies a distribution of the elements of the synony-mous group representing the entity region modifier ac-cording to which the nmdifier 'much' will occur twice asfrequently as any of the other two modifiers.
Such kindof style specification can be made for each synonymousgroup.
The default is even distribution.5 Conc lus ionThe problem of text generation with style has been de-scribed in the case of informative texts.
We stepped ontile platform of the experimental METEOVIS systemdesigned to handle multimedia weather information.
Inorder to get efficient control over the generated texts,we employed the concept of style, examined the featuresthat make up a style, and adapted the technique of textgeneration to take into account hose features.
This newopportunity makes po~ible the controlled generation ofvarious texts from the same dataset.Style specification is feasible at the four levels of textgeneration - -  content production, discourse generation,surface structure development, and lexical choice.
Itdrives the system to select from the many alternativesoffered by the rhetorical knowledge, grammar and lexi-con those providing text features ufficiently close to thespecified ones.
The algorithm for text generation pro-vides efficient reatment of the style requirements.Acknowkedgement: This work was supported bythe Ministry of Science and Education under grantI23/91 and by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences undergrant 1001003.References\[1\] L. G. Alexander.
Longman English Grammar.Longman, 1988.\[2\] C. DiMareo and G. Hirst.
Stylistic Grammars inLanguage Translation.
In: Proc.
COLING 88, Vol.1,Budapest, 1988, 148-153.\[3\] N. E. Enkvist.
Introduction: Coherence, Com-position and Text linguistics.
In: Coherence andComposition: A Symposium, ed.
N.E.Enkvist, AboAcademy, 1985, 11-26.\[4\] E. Hnji~ovA.
Focussing - a Meeting Point of Linguis-tics and Artificial Intelligence.
In: Artificial Intelli-gence 11: Methodology, Systems, Apphcations, eds.Ph.Jorrand and V.Sgurev, North-Holland, 1987,311-321.\[5\] S. Kerpedjiev.
Transformation of Weather Fore-casts from Textual to Cartographic Form.
Com-puter Physics Communications., 61(1990), 246-256.\[6\] S.Kerpedjiev, V.Noncheva.
Intelligent IIandling ofWeather Forecasts.
In: Proc.
COLING 90, vol.
3,Helsinki, 1990, 379-381.\[7\] S. Kerpedjiev.
Automatic Generation of Multi-modal Weather Reports from Datasets.
In: Proc.3rd Conf.
on Applied Natural Language Processing,Trento, 1992, 48-55.\[8\] K. Linden et at.
Using Systems Networks to BuildRhetorical Structures.
In: Lecture Notes in Artifi-cial Intelligence, 587, 1992, 183-198.\[9\] D. McDonald and J. Pustejovsky.
A ComputationalTheory of Prose Style for Natural Language Gener-ation.
In: Proc.
~nd Conf.
of the European Chapterof ACL, Geneva, 1985, 185-193.\[10\] K. R. MeKeown.
Text Generation.
Cambridge Uni-versity Press, 1985.ACRES DE COLING-92, NA~q'ES, 23-28 hot~'; 1992 1 0 2 8 PRO(:.
OF COLING-92, NaN'rl~s, AUG. 23-28.
1992
