ACTION RELATIONSIN RATIONALE CLAUSES AND MEANS CLAUSES*CECILE T. BALKANSKIAiken Computation Lab, Harvard UniversityCambridge, MA 02138, U.S.AAbstractCommunication among agents collaborating on a taskoften involves complex utterances about multiple ac-tions.
In this paper, we analyze two particular multi-action constructions, utterances with means clausesand utterances with rationale clauses.
We presentthe distinctive features of these constructions, de-scribe their logical form, and define interpretationrules for deriving their meaning in terms of the gener-ation, enablement and Contributes relations betweenactions which have been motivated independently byresearch in plan recognition.
We also demonstrate hatthese rules yield the appropriate properties of ratio-nale clauses and means clauses and show how theseconstructions can be distinguished algorithmically.1 IntroductionCommunication among agents collaborating on a taskoften involves complex utterances about multiple ac-tions, as illustrated in the following example:By going and getting the key and then coin-ing and unlocking the grate, for that you geta ccrtain number of points, and then as youcollect treasures, you get more points.
\[1\]Multi-action utterances like these present wo par-ticular challenges for natural anguage interpretationsystems: determining an appropriate representation ftheir meaning, and defining the process by which thisrepresentation can be derived from natural anguageutterances.
Substantial work has been done on the de-velopment of logical forms as a necessary step towardthe goal of representing the meaning of an utterance.However, very little is yet established on the represen-tation of the information communicated in complexaction utterances like the one given above, and stillless on the interpretation of thc relations tbat connectthe actions described in these utterances.In this paper, we analyze two particular multi-actionconstructions, utterances with rationale clauses andutterances with means clauses, illustrated respectivelyin (la) and (tb) below, with the goal of meeting, at*I would like to thank Barbara Grosz, Andrew I(ehler, l(arenLochbaum, Stuart Shieber and Candy Sidner for helpful com-ments regarding tiffs paper.
This researdt has I)een supportedby U S WEST Advanced Technologies, by the Air Force Officeof Scientific Research under Contract No.AFOSR-89-0273, andby an IBM Graduate Fellowshila.ACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 h0~r 1992 2 6 7least in part, these two challenges.
As their namessuggest, means clauses express the means by whichan action is performed, while rationale clauses expressthe reason, or rationale, of the main clause action.
Inthe last section of this paper, we show how to distin-guish rationale clauses from two superficially similarconstructions: purpose clauses, as in "Mary bought asuit to wear at the meeting", and infinitival relativeclauses, as in " John found the book to give to his sis-ter".
(1) ~.
Mary pressed the button to reset the printer.b.
Mary reset tbe printer by pressing the button.Rationale clauses and means clauses are of interestnot only as exemplars of multi-action utterances, butalso because of the subtle differences in the informationthat can be felicitously inferred from their use.
For ex-ample, despite the similarities between (la) and (lb),the continuation in (2), below, is felicitous after ( la)but not after (lb).
The interpretation task thereforerequires determining the relations between the actionsdescribed in multi-action utterances and drawing ap-propriate inferences about them.
This particular needis one of the issues addressed in this paper.
(2) But that didn't work because she forgot to plug it in.We start by presenting distinctive properties of ut-terances with rationale clauses and means clauses.
Af-ter describing their logical form, we then present hegeneration, enablement and Contributes relations be-tween actions \[3, 13\], arguing for their use in the in-terpretation of these constructions.
We finally defineinterpretation rules for deriving the meaning of thelogical form predicates representing means clause andrationale clauses.
We also show how these rules pre-dict the properties of these constructions mentionedabove.
We end the paper by discussing the scope of theanalysis and showing how the constructions to whichthese rules apply can be distinguished algorithmically.A companion paper \[5\] examines the mental states ofthe speaker and performing agent of such utterances,and describes the interpretation model.2 Propert ies  of rat ionale andmeans clausesA detailed analysis of multi-action utterances in task-oriented ialogues \[3\] and a subsequent examination ofa set of selections from the Associated Press news wirePace.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992revealed the following distinctive features displayed illutterances with rationale clauses and means clauses.2 .1  Semant ic  p roper t iesOver lap :  In utterances with means clauses or ra-tionale clauses, the performance of one of the actionsreferred to in the utterance may result in the simul-taneous performance of the other (but need not, seebelow).
The overlap in meaning between utterances( la)  and ( lb)  exemplifies this property: in both utter-ances, Mary's pressing the button may result in herresetting the printer at the same time.D is t inc t ion :  It follows from past tense utteranceswith means clauses, but not from those with rationaleclauses, that the agent's "goal action" was success-fully performcd.
This action is described in the mainclause of an utterance with a means clause, but in timadjunct clause of an utterance with a rationale clause.This property is reflected in tbe difference between ut-terances ( la)  and ( lb)  with respect o tile continuationin (2): only from ( lb)  can it be concluded that Marysuccessfully reset the printer 1.
Thus (2) is not felic-itous in the context of ( lb),  but it is in that of ( la)because in that context, Mary might have failed toreset the printer.Ambigu i ty :  Utterances with rationale clauses areambiguous with respect to the relative t iming of thetwo actions referred to: the performance of the mainclause action may result in the simultaneous perfor-mance of the adjunct clause action, or it may onlymake possible its subsequent performance.
This prop-erty explains why, in the examples helcw, response(3b) is felicitous whereas the same utterance in tilecontext of (4a) is not.
(3l a. John: I inserted a diskette to back up my file.b.
Mary: Okay, now back up the file.
(4) a. John: I typed 'cp new.txt' to back up my file.b.
Mary: * Okay, now back up the file.2.2 "Algebraic" propertiesI)rawing an analogy with the algebraic properties ofrelations, utterances with means clauses and rationaleclauses are irreflexive, asymmetr ic  and transitive, a~sreflected in the following examples (the first utteranceor utterance pair of each set includes a means clause,th,' second, a rationale clause).I',l a.
*Mary reset tile printer by resetting the printer.
*Mary reset the printer to reset the printer.b.
Mary reset the printer by pressing the button.
*Mary pressed the button by resetting the printer.Mary pressed the button to reset the printer.
*Mary reset the printer to press the button.c.
Mary fixed her problem by resetting the printerby pressing the button.Mary fixed her problem by pressing the button.1 The companion paper \[5\] addresses the issue of embeddinginferences like this one in belief contexts.Mary pressed the button to reset the printer tofix her problem.Mary pressed the button to fix her problem.Similar examples may be found to show that utter-ances with rationale clauses about sequential actionshave tile same properties, e.g., for transitivity:(6) John borrowed the book to bring it back lmlne.John brought he book back home to look forpapers on adjunct clauses.John borrowed the book to look for papers onadjunct clauses.Transit ivity affects utterances with means clausesand rationale clauses in different ways.
The transi-tivity of utterances with means clauses, i l lustrated inthe first utterance pair of (5c), makes it possible to de-scribe actions at lower levels of detail, i.e., with greatergranularity.
The transitivity of utterances with ratio-nale clauses, and in particular those that describe se-quential actions as il lustrated ill (6), increases not tilegranularity of the description, but the "distance" be-tween tile actions described, i.e., the number of stepsin tile sequence of actions linking them.3 Act ions  and act ion  re la t ionsin logical formsLogical forms represent he literal meaning of all ut-terance and are derived cornpositionally by seman-tic interpretation rules based on the syntactic struc-ture of tlre utterance.
Our logical forms are be.sedon Davidson's formalism \[6\], because action reifica-tion facilitates the representation of utterances aboutmultiple actions and relations among thent.
Theselogical forms are existentially quantified sentences offirst-order logic, with predicates that include all ad-ditional argument position for the action being de-scribed.
Davidson's framework is extended for nmlti-action utterances by introducing multiple action vari-ables and by representing connectives like "hy" (intro-ducing means clauses) and "to" (introducing rationaleclauses) using two-place predicates ranging over theseaction variables, as il lustrated in (7) ~.
(7) a. Mary reset the printer by pressing the button.LF: Sz~, x2, reset(zj ) h past(xl ) A ayt(x~, Mary)Aobj(xl, Printer) A by(x1, x2)Apress(x~) A obj(x,z, Button)b. Mary pressed the button to rcsct the printer.LF: 3xl,x2,press(x~ ) A past(xl) A agt(xl ,Mary)Aobj(x,, Button) A i .
.
.
.
.
der_to(z,, x~)^ .
.
.
.
t(x:)  ^  obj(x2, Printer)The following subsections discuss the four maincomponents of these representations: action variables2Extensional representations of propositions, like this one,have difficulties with respect o certain intensional phenomenasucb as substitution of identicals.
Hobbs discusses this problemand a number of possible solutions Ill)l, but these questions liebeyond the scone of the nresent paner.AcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 Aot~'r 1992 2 6 8 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28.
1992(e.g., xl and x2), action descriptions (e.g., tile predi-cates reset and press), tense predicates (e.g., tile pred-icate past), and action relations (e.g., the predicatesby and in_order_to).3.1 Action variablesWhile Davidson's formalism assumes that action vari-ables denote "reM" action tokens, action variables inour formalism correspond to action entities in thediscourse model.
The ability to refer to an entityanaphorieally has been suggested as a test for "dis-course entity hood" \[')0\].
Actions referred to in meansclauses and rationale clauses pass this test, as illus-trated in (8).
The pronoml 'that'  in this utterance isambiguous, but the possibility of its coreferring withthe adjunct clause action is sufficient justification forattributing discourse ntity-hood to that action.
(8) Mary will clone the rhinovirus to make a vaccinefor the connnon cold and that will make her famous.Action entities may represent actual, or "real", ac-tions, i.e., actions that have occurred (e.g., the resetaction in (7a)), or unrealized actions, i.e., actions thathave not yet occurred or might never occur (e.g., thereset action in (7b) that may or may not result frolnthe press action) \[4\].
Quantification in the logicalform is therefore over a universe that contains every-thing that can be talked about, with no commitmentto existence ill the real worhl (as in, e.g., \[10, 17\]).Discourses in collaborative settings often involve dis-cussions about unrealized actions.
Agents, for exam-pie, might make suggestions for future actions, or discuss the advantages and disadvantages of a particularcourse of action.
It is thus crucial to adopt a represen-tation that will account for these actions as well.3.2 Action descriptionsActions arc rcprescntcd by predicates taking a singleaction variable, e.g., reset(x)), and every action argmncnt is rcprescntcd by a scparate predicate, e.g.,agt(xl,Mary).
This type of representation has beenproposed by a number of researchers (e.g., \[21\]) asan alternative to Davidson's representation, i  whichonly the optional arguments arc represented as sepa-rate predicates.
One reason is the arbitrariness that issometimes involved in deciding on thc argument s ruc-ture of various action predicates.
For the present anal-ysls, this type of representation is usefld because itavoids having either to introduce xistential variablesfor missing arguments or to determine how these ar-guments are recovered uring the process of buildingtile logical form.
Missing subject and time argumentsof adjunct clause actions in tile logical forms of meansclauses and rationale clauses (e.g., those in (7)) canhe recovered through the interpretatk)n of the actionrelations (see Section 5.2).
Not all rationale clauses.however, \[lave empty subject positions, e.g., "Maryprepared lobster (in order) for her gnests to have ataste of New Enzland cuisine.
"3.3 Tense predicatesThe tense predicates in our logical forrns capture twopieces of information: temporal information and in-formation about action occurrence.
This distinction isnecessary because actions, whether their time is past,present, or future, need not occur.
For example, agentsmay discuss a future action without ever performingit.
Similarly, agents ruay talk about a past action thatnever occurred, as in "John said that Mary left yester-clay, hut he was wrong".If thc logical form predicate pasl holds of some ac-tion, then that action occurred (in some world or beliefcontext) and its occurrence was in the past.
In (7), pastis predicated of the action variable xt, denoting the ac-tions described in the main clauses of both (Ta) and(7h).
If there is no information to the contrary (e.g.,tam utterance is not embedded in an intensional con-text, established either directly within the utterance,as in "Mary thought she reset the printer", or throughtile discourse context, as when describing a dream),then we call conclude that the action occurred in thereal world.Utterances with rationale chmses and mcans clausesdiffer in what reformation they communicate aboutthe occurrence of the action described in the adjunctclause.
In lmithcr construction does this clause in-volvo a tensed verb, whidl explains why pasl is notpredicated of x2 in the LFs of (7a) and (Tb).
It ispossible, however, to infer from (Ta) that the actiondenoted by that variable did occur, and from (7b) thatit lnight not have occurred, ms illustrated in (1) and(2) m the Introduction.
This information is capturedby the interpretation rules for means clauses and ra-tionale clauses, as explained in Section 4.3.4 Action relationsFinally, the l,Fs in (7) include predicates representingthe connectives that link the two clauses in each ofthe utterances, namely by and in_order_to.
The mean-lug of these predicates is specified by interpretationrules, presented in the next section, that state neces-sary conditions on the use of these constructions.
It isimportant to note that these predicates are used onlyto represent the connectives "by" and "to"introdncingumans clauses and rationale clauses.
Other uses ofthese lexical items are recognizable in a number ofways (e.g., syntactically: "by" followed by a nounphrase, or "to" introducing an infinitival complement(argnment) o a verb, ms in "John wanted to leave"),~s discussed in Section 5.3; these arc assumed to berepresented differently in the I,F.4 In terpret ing  act ion  re la t ionsThree relations between actions -- generation, enablemcnt and (~ontrihutes - -  that have been motivated in-dependently by research ill plan recognition \[15, 3, 13\]can he employed in tile internretation of utterancesAcrEs DE COL1NG-92, NANTES, 23-28 AO~r 1992 2 6 9 PROC, OF COLiNG-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28.
1992with means clauses and rationale clauses.
In this sec-tion we demonstrate this use of these relations, andalso provide a definition of enablement.4 .1  Generat ionThe generation relation, initially defined by Goldman\[8\], holds of two actions when the performance of thefirst results in the simultaneous performance of thesecond.
Generation, however, encompasses more thansimply two simultaneous actions.
For example, Marycan reset the printer by pressing a button only in cer-tain circumstances, namely when the electricity is on,the printer is plugged in, etc.
Performing the gener-ating action when these conditions do not hold doesnot result in the performance of the generated action.Generation, therefore, is a relation that depends uponcontextual constraints, called generation-enabling con-ditions \[15\], that must hold during performance time.This relation was formalized by Pollack \[15\], and sub-sequently revised in previous work of the author's \[3\].The following English gloss of the definition sufficesfor the present discussion and avoids an unnecessarydigression into an explanation of the formalization; Aand B are actions, comprising an act-type, agent andtime.
(9) A generates B if and only if1.
A and B are actions performed by the s~meagent at the same time2.
there is a set of conditions, C, such thata.
these conditions hold during theperformance .time of A andb.
the act-type of A conditionally generatesthe act-type of B under C.Clause (2b) states the requirement that there bc acondilional generation relation between the two act-types and the generation-enabling conditions, C. Thisrelation abstracts away from specific actions to cap-turc the regularities of a generation relation across oc-currences.
It holds between act-types ~ and fl andconditions C if (a) whenever an action of type c~ oc-curs while these conditions hold, an action of typeoccurs at the same time and (b) neither an occurrenceof an action of type a,  nor C holding, is by itself suffi-cient to guarantee the occurrence of an action of type/3 \[15\].
An important property of the generation rela-tion is that if it holds of two actions A and B, and Aoccurs, then so does B.
This follows from the genera-tion relation requiring the relevant conditions to holdduring performance time (as stated in clause (2a) intile definition).In light of the generation relation, we can recon-sider the examples in (1).
Both these utterances referto an underlying conditional generation relation: inthe right circumstances, pressing the button resultsin simultaneously resetting the printer.
They differ,however, in that they do so from different perspec-tives: utterance (lb), with the means clause, assertsthe occurrence of the generated action (the resettingaction), while utterance (la).
with the rationale clause.does not (cf.
example (2)).
Therefore, tbe relevantgeneration-enabling conditions must have held duringperformance time in the context of (lb) bug not neces-sarily in that of (la).
Because the generation relationrequires these conditions to hold during performancetime, it correctly describes the relation between thetwo actions in ( lb) but not necessarily that in (la).Utterances with rationale clauses, like (la), onlyhave the potential for realizing a generation relation,and this potentiality rests on two different factors: (a)the possibility that there is no conditional generationrelation between the two actions, as in "Mary ate anapple to reset the printer", or (b) the possibility thattbe generation-enabling conditions do not hold duringperformance time, as in (la) where the two actions arerelated by a conditional generation relation, but theassociated generation-enabling conditions might nothold during performance time.The following sections, however, will show that ananalysis of rationale clauses based solely in terms ofthe generation relation is too restrictive.4 .2  Enab lementThe interpretation of rationale clauses also requires ap-pealing to the enablemen~ relation; for example, in (10)below (of.
(la)), tile performance of the main clauseaction does not (potentially) result in the simultane-ous performance of the adjunct clause actiou.
Rather,it only makes possible the subsequent performance ofthe adjunct clause action.
The generation relation,tberefore, does not correctly describe the action re-lation in this utterance.
Instead, tile relationship isoue of enablement, a relation we define ms holding oftwo actions when the performance of tile first bringsabout a condition that is necessary for the subsequentperformance of the second \[3\].
(10) Mary inserted a diskette to back up her file.Much of the literature that makes use of tile enable-ment relation has been vague about its intended inter-pretation, using it at different imes to mean differentthings and not explaining wily one action nmst be per-formed before the other (e.g., \[18\]).
In the followingdefinition, the dependency between the enabling andenabled actions is explained by the role of an interven-ing conditional generation relation 3.
A closer exami-nation of utterance (10), for example, shows that theeffect of the enabling action, namely that a diskette bein place, provides the generation-enabling condition ofa conditional generation relation between typing somccommand and backing up thc associated file.
(11) A enables B if and only if1.
the time of A is prior to the time of B,2.
there are a set of conditions, C, and a thirdaction A' such thata.
one of the eonditious in C, Ci, holdsas a result of the performance of A, andb.
the act-type of A' conditionally generatesthe act-type of B under C.3This is not the only oossible type of delpendellcv \[3\],Ac I~ DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOtTtr 1992 2 7 0 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992If Ci, the condition brought about by the perfor-mance of A, is the only element of the set of generation-enabling conditions C, then the performance of A isboth necessary and sufficient for the subsequent I)cr-formance of B.4 .3  Cont r ibutesSo far, utterances with rationale clauses have been in-terpreted as instances of the generation or enablemcntrelation.
This construction, however, can also relatetwo actions when the chain of relations between theminvolves both generation and enablement relations, asillustrated in (12a), or a complex action constructor\[3\], as illustrated in (12b):(12) a. Mary built the table to sell it at the market.Mary sold the table at the market o earn money.Mary earned money to pay her rent.Mary built the table to pay her rent.
(enablement + generation + enablement)b. l picked up the foot end for us to lift the piano.
(simult + generation)Utterances with rationale clauses thus allow for awide range of relations between the main clause andadjunct clause actions.
To capture this phenomenon,we interpret hem as iustances of the Contributes rela-tion.
This relation, also originally introduced for planrecognition purposes, is defined as the transitive clo-sure of the generation and enablement relations, andthe complex action constructors \[13\].
It therefore cov-ers the entire range of relations that can exist betweenthe actions in this type of utterance.5 Analysis5.1  In terpretat ion  ru lesThe inference rules defining the meaning of meansclauses and rationale clauses arc given below.
Tileby and in_order_to predicates in the left hand side ofthe rules are the logical form predicates representingthe connectives introducing these clauses 4.
Tbe verbs"generates" and "contributes" in the right hand sideare used here, as elsewhere in tbe paper, in their tech-nical sense, corresponding to the action relations de-fined in the previous sections.
Note that the orderof the arguments in the by predicate and generationrelation is reversed.
(13) a. LF I :  by(h,B) -~B generates  A and B occurred.b.
LF2:  ia_order_to(A,B)---*A cont r ibutes  to B,within restricted belief contexts.The LF1 rule maps the LF representation f meansclause to the generation relation and specifies that the4This paper does not address the reference problem and as-sumes that the mapping of action variables in the logical form toaction entities in the discourse model has already been aonlied.generating action occurred.
This occurrence is a fea-ture of the means clause construction and not of theuse of the gerund form to describe the action.
Givenan utterance with a means clause, it can therefore beinferred that the generated action occurred as a resultof the generating one and that the relevant contextualconditions held during performance time.The LF2 rule maps the LF' representation of ratio-hale clauses to a Contributes relation within a beliefcontext, capturing the fact that (a) the relation canbe any combination of the generation and enablementrelations, as well ms the complex action constructorsand (b) that the relation between tile two actions isonly potential.
A new set of action relatious is notneeded for representing the potentiality of the actionrelation in these utterances.
Instead, as described inthe companion paper \[5\], it is best expressed in termsof the different beliefs and intentions of the speaker(S) and performing agent (G).
For example, G couldbelieve a Contributes relation between actions A andB, wlfite S does not; or G and S could both believethe relation, but haw~ different beliefs regarding asso-ciated conditions and actions, e.g., G may believe A isnecessary and sufficient for B whereas S believes A isonly necessary.When utterances with rationale clauses involve si-lmlltancous actions, then the Contributes relation de-rived by the LF2 rule specializes to the generation re-lation.
Exactly when such specialization is possible isa plan recognition problem that goes beyond the scopeof this paper.
Utterances ometimes provide tempo-ral or agency information that can be used to opti-mize the plan recognition process.
In particular, if theperformance times, or performing agents, of the twoactions are known to bc different, then a specializa-tion to generation is ruled out.
When temporal andagency information is not available, then recipes pro-vide anotber source of information for disambiguatingrationale clauses \[3, 14\].5.2  Consequences  o f  the  ru lesThe two interpretation rules LF1 and LF2 predict allof the properties of utterances with rationale clausesand means clauses that were presented in Section 2.Semant ic  p roper t ies :  The LF2 rule accounts forthe Ambiguity property of rationale clauses by makinguse of the Contributes relation which can relate eithersimultaneous or sequential actions.
Because the Con-tributes relation may specialize to a generation rela-tion, the LFI and LF2 two rules account for the Over-lap property.
Finally, because tile LF2 rule is basedon potentiality, while tbe LF1 rule is not, these rnlesalso account for tile Distinction property.A lgebra ic  p roper t ies :  It can be shown that thegeneration and Contributes relations are irreflexive,asymmetric and transitive, rellecting the algebraicproperties of the NL utterances that realize them.By describing simultaneous actions performed by thesame agent, the generation relation also captures theincreased ~rannlaritv of the action description: bv de-AcrEs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt3T 1992 2 7 1 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUo.
23-28, 1992scribing sequential (as well as simultaneous) actions,the Contributes relation captures the increased is-tance between the actions described.In addition, these interpretation rules account forthe missing agent and time arguments of the actionsdescribed in means clauses and rationale clauses.
Be-cause the generation relation requires the agents andtimes of the two actions to be identical, the miss-ing arguments in a means clause can be recovered onthe basis of the agent and time information associ-ate'd with the main clause action.
The Contributesrelation, however, imposes no temporal or agency con-straint.
Therefore, without additional information, itis not possible to determine whether the agent (whenmissing) and time of a rationale clause are the same asthose of the main clause, el.
"I brought his miserableMorgon to enjoy with our dinner" \[2\].5 .3  Scope  o f  the  ana lys i sThe LF1 and LF2 interpretation rules predict specificfacts about English, namely a large set of propertiescharacterizing the differences and similarities betweenrationale clauses and means clauses.
They do so bydefining the meanings of the by and in_order_to LFpredicates in terms of independently motivated actionrelations.
These predicates are useful for representingnot only the meaning of rationale clauses and meansclauses, but also that of related constructions.
Forexample, tile in_order_to predicate can be used to rep-resent the connective "so that" in utterances such as"Mary got up early so that she could catch the firsttrain to Montreal".
The by predicate can also be usedfor non-clausal constructions, asin "John got the infor-mation he needed by means of an interview".
Further-more, these predicates are meant o be language inde-pendent.
In French, for example, the in_order_to predi-cate would be used to represent the construction "pour+ infinitive", as in "Marie a regard~ des films pourpreparer son voyage au Japon" (Mary watched moviesto prepare for her trip to Japan), and the by predi-cate, to represent the construction "en + gerund", asm "Marie a pr~par~ son voyage au J upon en regardantdes films" (Mary prepared for her trip to Japan bywatching movies).
Unlike the corresponding Englishconstruction, however, the French "en-clause" is am-biguous between a means clause reading (as given intile English translation) and a temporal reading thatcan be translated as "while watching movies".
Deter-mining how to disambiguate hese two interpretationsis an interesting research question.In the remainder of this section, we show how todistinguish algorithmically the constructions to whichthe LF1 and LF2 rules apply, thereby making it pos-sible for an interpretation system to build the correctLF representations.Rat iona le  c lauses:  These clauses are optional in-finitival adjuncts, introduced either by the infinitivalmarker "to",  or, when the subject is not missing, bythe lexieal item "for" followed by a noun phrase (re-alizinz the subiect\] followed by "to".
Both these cola-structions are optionally preceded by "ill order".
Notethat the LF2 rule applies to rationale clauses with orwithout explicit subjects.
For example, given "Maryprepared lobster (in order) for her guests to have ataste of New England cuisine", Mary's preparing lob-ster contributes to her guests having a taste of NewEngland cuisine.A large number of to-infinitival clauses (with orwithout subjects) to which the LF2 rule does not ap-ply can be distinguished on syntactic grounds, namelyby not being optional infinitival adjuncts.
Utterancesthat are syntactically ambiguous how a correspond-ing semantic ambiguity, and the LF2 rule applies tothe rationale clause reading; e.g.
: "Bush warned hispress secretary to prevent a leak", where tlle infiniti-val clause may function as an optional adjunct (i.e.,realizing a rationale clause) or a complement.Two types of adverbials to which the LF2 rule deesnot apply, but which are syntactically indistinguish-able from rationale clauses, are comment clauses, asin "John is not sure what to do, to put it brietly", andoutcome clauses, as in "Mary awoke one morning tofind the house in an uproar" \[16\].
Given their statusas parentheticals, comment clauses are recognizable intext by a comma, and in speecb by intonation (notethat without the comma, the infinitival clause becomesa rationale clause).
Outcome clauses are restricted toverbs of discovery or to the verbs "be" or "become"(e.g., "She lived to be 10ft'), and are therefore alsodistinguishable.Finally, there are pnrpose clauses, e.g., "Marybought a suit to wear at the meeting".
Purpose clausesare also optional infinitival adverbials, but differ fromrationale clauses in the mnnber and type of gaps theyallow and in their control pattern s \[2, 12\].
They alsodiffer from the superficially similar infinitival relativeclauses by not being attached to a noun phrase.
TileLF2 rule, in fact, makes correct predictious for thisconstruction as well, e.g., Mary's buying a suit con-tributes to her wearing the suit at tile meeting.
Pur-pose clauses with inanimate subjects, however, as in"John bought a shelf to hold his books", require someadjustment with respect to tbe action's role in theContributes relation.
Actions relations are between ac-tions, and actions are assumed to have human agents.Therefore, ratber tban deriving a Contributes relationbetween John's buying a shelf and the shelf's hold-ing his books, the system should derive a relation be-tween John's buying a shelf and his having something(namely the shelf) to hold his books.
This issue iscurrently being investigated.Means  c lauses:  These clauses are very easily dis-tinguishable by their form: the lexical item "by" fol-lowed by an -lug clanse (in this context, "by" may betreated as a preposition or a subordinator).
Appar-ent counterexamples to the LF1 rule are utterances ofthe form "Mary pays her rent by building filrniture",5Fl'om a descriptive point of view, rationale clauses differfro~.
purpose clauses in that only the former Mlow the para-nhrnae with the words "in order to" \[121.AcIXs DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 ^ o',rr 1992 2 7 2 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUG. 23-28, 1992in which the two actions are sequential.
However, thefact that LF1 does not apparently apply to this ex-ample, is a sign that additional pragnmtic reasoning(e.g., conversational implicatures \[9\]) is needed.
Inthis particular example, LF1 does apply, though indi-rectly through the utterance of which it is a metaphor,namely, "Mary makes a living by building furniture".The need for further Gricean reasoning of this sort isreflected in the markedness of such examples.6 Conc lus ionIn this paper, we analyzed utterances with ratio-nalc clauses and means clauses, presented their log-ical form, and defined interpretation rules for thesetwo constructions that make use of independently mo-tivated action relations.
These rules make it possibleto draw appropriate inferences about the actions de-scribed in these utterances, thereby accounting for thcsimilarities and differences between rationale clausesand means clauses.
The algebraic properties of tile action relations were shown to reflect the properties ofthe utterances that realize them.
We also showed howto distinguish thc constrnctions to which thesc rulesapply.This analysis fills an important gap in the naturallanguage interpretation literature.
Surprisingly littleresearch has examined multi-action utterances uchas those with means classes and rationale claases.There is a large body of linguistics research on pur-pose clauses, but it focuses on syntactic aspects of theconstruction and issues of control (e.g., \[2, 12\]).
In thecomputational linguistics literature, Huettner et alswork on the generation of adjunct clauses \[11\] and DiEugenio's analysis of instructions \[7, 19\] iloth examinepurpose constructions, but from different perspectivesthan that of this paper \[5\].This research is being extended ill two main direc-tlons.
One is to examine future tense utterances andother types of utterances about unrealized actions.Another is to cast the interpretation rules in a genera\[processing model that takes into account he mentalstates of the agents involved.
Beliefs and intentions arcnecessary for the treatment of unrealized actions, mswell as for capturing other aspects of rationale clausesand means clauses.
In particular, utterances with ra-tionale clauses, but not necessarily those with meansclauses, communicate he speaker's beliefs about theperforming agent's intention to perform the actionsdescribed in the utterance.
Finally, mental states arcindispensable in any interpretation model that pur-ports to account for inferences that arc drawn on thebasis of utterances, initial progress in these two areasis reported in tile companion paper \[5\].References\[1\] Albert, D. 1990.
Cooperative dialogs while playing adventure.
TR-O2-90, llarvard Univ.\[2\] Bach, E. 1982.
Purpose clauses and control.
IllJacobson, P. & t'ullom, G., ells, The Nature ofSyntactic Representation.
1).
lteidel l'ubl.
(7o.\[3\] Balkanski, C. 1990.
Modelling act-type relationsin collaborative activity.
Technical Report TRo23-90, Ilarvar(I Univ.\[4\] Balkanski, C. 1991.
Logical form of complex ac-tion sentences in ta.sk-orimtted dialogs.
In P1vc.ACL'91, Student Session.\[5\] Balkanski, C. 1992.
Actions, beliefs and inten-tioas in rationale clauses and means claases.
Inf'roc.
AAAU92.\[6\] I)avidson, D. 1967.
Thelogical lbrmofaction sen-tences, ht l~.escher, N., ed, The Logic of Decisionand Action.
University of Pittsburgh Press.\[7\] Di Eugenio, 1t.
1992.
Goals and action in naturallanguage instructions.
Technical Report MS-CIS-92-07, Univ.
of Pennsylvania.\[8\] (;oldrnan, A.
1970.
A Theory of Human Action.Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ.\[9\] (\]rice, \[I.P.
1975.
Logic and conversation.
In Syn-tax ~4 b'emanlics, vol 3, Speech Acts, AcademicPress, NY.\[10\] Ilobbs, J.
1985.
Ontological promiscuity.
In PTve.A CL '85.\[11\] lluettner, A., Vaughan, M., and McDonald, D.1987.
Constraints on the generation of adjunctclauses.
In Proc.
ACL'87.\[12\] Jones, C. 1991. l'urpose clauses: syntaz, themal-ics and semantics of English purpose construe-lions.
Kluwer Academic Publishers.\[13\] l,ochbaum, K., Grosz, B., and Sidner, G. 1990.Models of plans to support communication: Aninitial report, lu Proc.
AAAI'90.\[14\] Lochbamn, K. 1991.
An algorithm for planrecognition in eollaboratiw~ discourse.
In Proc.ACL '9I.\[15\] Pollack, M. 1986.
Inferring domain plans inquestion-answering.
Technical Report 403, SRIInternational, Menlo Park, CA.\[16\] Qnirk, R., Greenbaum, S., Leech, G., andSvartvik, J.
1985.
A Comprehensive Grammarof the English Language.
Longman.\[17\] Schubert, L. K. and Hwang, C. tl.
1990.
Anci)isodic knowledge representation for narrativetexts.
Tcdmical Report 345, Univ.
of Rochester.\[18\] Schuster, E. 1988.
Anaphorie reference to eventsand actions: a representation a d its advantages.In Proc.
COLING'88.\[19\] Webber, B. and Di Eugenio, B.
1990.
Free ad-juncts in natural anguage instructions.
In PTvc.COLING '90.\[20\] Webber, B.
1983.
So what can we talk aboutnow?
In Brady, M., and Berwick, 1L C., eds,Computalional Models of Discourse.
MIT Press.\[21\] Wilensky, I(.
1991.
The ontology and representa-tion of situations.
In Proceedinys of KR'91.ACTES DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOUT 1992 2 7 3 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES.
AUG. 23-28, 1992
