THE KANT SYSTEM:  FAST ,  ACCURATE,  H IGH-QUAL ITYTRANSLAT ION IN  PRACTICAL  DOMAINSEr i c  H. Nyberg  I l lTeruko MitamuraCenter for Machine TrmlslationCarnegie Mel lon Univers i tyPittsburgh, PA 15213 USAProject Note / DemonstrationMajor Topic Area: 5"c (Machine Translation)Minor Topic Area: 7*a (Language Engineering)AbstractKnowledge-based interlingual machine translationsystems produce semantically accurate translations,but typically require massive knowledge acquisi-tion.
Ongoing research and development a theCenter for Machine Translation has focussed on re-ducing this requirement to produce large-scale prac-tical applications ofknowledge-based MT.
This pa-per describes KANT, the first system to combineprincipled source language design, semi-automatedknowledge acquisition, and know ledge compilationtechniques toproduce fast, high-quality ranslationto multiple languages.1 Overv iewAny expert system is only as good as the knowledge pro-grammed into it; the same is true of a knowledge-based trans-lation system.
A KBMT system can only produce accurate,high-quality translations if it can unambiguously determinethe meaning of the input ext and choose an appropriate phras-ing of that meaning in the target language.
This implies asignificant domain knowledge base in addition to the usualsyntactic grammars, lexicons, etc.
The question is, how muchknowledge isenough?It is probably the case that the implementation f a worldknowledge base sufficient to support knowledge-based trans-lation in any domain of discourse issome years from realiza-tion.
Nevertheless, there are significant practical problems intranslation that can be solved with current knowledge-basedtechnology, because they do not require general translation iuall domains of discourse, In particular, we have explored theuse of machine translation for multi-languageoutput in a con-trolled authoring environment for technical documentation.Our goal has been to identify and develop the following:?
Principled esigns for source language t xts that encour-age concise, expressive authoring while supporting effi-cient ranslation;?
Algorithms for knowledge-based interpretation f textthat effectively disambiguate source language sentences;?
A powerful yet efficient rule foraralism for target extgeneration;?
A combination ofautomatic and semi-automatic knowl-edge acquisition tools to streamline the creation of large-scale knowledge bases for translation i a particular ap-plication domain;?
Techniques for the compilation of knowledge bases thatsupport a clear, declarative style of input for the lin-guist/knowledge engineer and produce fficient run-timeknowledge sources for translation;?
A modular system architecture that allows extension toadditional target languages without any change to exist-ing knowledge.In this project note, we describe the development of theseideas in the KANT system, a knowledge-based interlinguatranslation system for multi-lingual document production.
Webelieve that KANT is the first system to bring these ideastogether in a system that provides fast, accurate, high-qualityknowledge-based translation.A complete working prototype of the KANT architecturewhich translates to French, German, and Japanese has beendemonstrated successfully, and KANT is currently being ex-tended in a large-scale commercial pplication for documentproduction i  several languages.1.1 Controlled Input LanguageThere are two broad classes of restrictions which KANTplaces on the source text.
The first concerns the vocabu-lary used by the author.
The general (non-domain specific)words used in the source text are limited to a basic vocabularyof about 14,000 distinct word seuses.
The domain-specifictechnical terms are limited to a pre-defined vocabulary.
Thesecond restriction concerns the level of syntactic complexitypresent in the source text.
KANT limits the use of con-structions that would create unnecessary ambiguity or otherACRES DE COLING-92, NANTES.
23-28 Atilt 1992 1 0 6 9 Pkoc.
OF COLING-92, NANTES.
AUG. 23-28.
1992difficulties in parsing, while still providing the author with asubset of English which is large enough to support authoriugof clear, understandable technical prose.
For example, KANTallows the use of subject-gap relative clauses with an explicitrelative pronoun (e.g., "Clean the ventilation slots which arelocated on the rear of the chassis"), but does not allow reducedrelative clauses.
An example of a controlled input languagetext is shown in Figure 2.Previous attempts to define controlled input languages fortranslation have tried to reduce complexity by either limitingthe vocabulary to a very small size or by limiting syntax tojust a few constructions t. In contrast to systems which limitvocabulary to just a few thousand words, KANT allows alarger vocabulary tobe represented in the lexicon.
KANT alsoplaces principled grammatical limitations on the source textthat are loose enough to allow a degree of stylistic variationwhich supports productive authoring, while controlling thecomplexity of the input in areas that are crucial for accuratetranslation.1.2 Knowledge-Based Parsing and InterpretationAlthough it is possible to reduce ambiguity by limiting theuse of certain kinds of phrases, some phrases which intro-duce a high level of ambiguity (such as prepositional phrases)cannot be ruled out.
To resolve the ambiguity introduced bymultiple possible phrase attachments, KANT uses an explicitdomain model to narrow the set of potential interpretations(cf.
Figure 1).
For every phrase (such as verb phrase or nounphrase) that accepts a potentially ambiguous phrase attach-ment (such as a prepositional phrase), KANT constrains theset of allowable attached phrases to just those that meet thenarrow semantic restrictions of the particular domain.
Thesystem's domain model is rich enough to allow all interpreta-tions possible within the domain, but narrow enough to ruleout irrelevant interpretations, The complexity of the domainmodel is only as deep as required to resolve ambiguity, whichis the appropriate criterion for limiting the size of a domainmodel in a practical KBMT system.By constraining the set of possible syntactic structures andruling out ambiguous interpretations, it is possible for KANTto assign a complete and accurate semantic representationto each input sentence.
Although the creation of a compre-hensive set of mapping rules requires intensive development,we have eliminated redundancy through structure-sharing a dpre-compilation (Mitamura, 1989; Mitamura and Nyberg,1990).
Interpretation rules are organized into an inheritancehierarchy, so that general rules can be shared via inheritance;the hierarchy is then pre-compiled into cached structures forfast access at ran-time.1.3 A Powerful Rule Formalism for GenerationHigh-quality output in an Interlingua-based system presup-poses a generation component that is powerful and flexible,IFor example, the Multinational Customized F.nglish used by XEROXCorporation (De Mauro and Russo, 1984)helped to decrease post-editingto Ihe point where semi-automated translation became 5 times faster thanmanual translation.allowing the system to create accurate target text realizationswhich do not necessarily reflect he syntactic organization ofthe source text or the structure of the Interlingua Text.
TheMapper module of the system makes use of a set of mappingrules and a lexicon to create the appropriate Target F-Structurefor each Interlinguarepresentation (cf.
Figure 1).
Each map-ping rule is intended to apply to a single Interlingua concept,which may contain other Interlingan concepts as slot fillers;the Mapper uses a recursive-descent f-s ructure compositionalgorithm, which is discussed in (Nyberg et al, 1991).A mapping rule combines three types of information: apattern slot, a context that must match the Interlingua conceptto be mapped; a syn slot, a pointer to the lexical item to beused to realize the concept; and a map slot, which specifieshow the embedded components of the Interlingua map togrammatical functions in the Target F-Structure.
For example,the following rule maps the lnterlingua concept * E-REMOVEto the French verb ddposer in the appropriate context:lgle~ *remove(pattern(theme (*or* *o-frame *o-chassis)))(syn(cat verb)(root "d6poser") )(map (theme obj) ) )The English sentence Remove the chassis would be translatedto Drposer le ctMssis using this rule.1.4 Automated and Semi-Automated Tools forKnowledge AcquisitionSince knowledge-based translation systems rely on the use ofcomplex knowledge sources, knowledge acquisition becomesthe single most important (and time-consuming) task duringsystem development.
The system must provide the developerwith an efficient way to specify and incrementally refine bothdomain knowledge and linguistic knowledge.
In addition,those parts of the development process that are most repetitive(such as the extraction of vocabulary lists from a text corpus)should be automated.
The tools that are currently being usedin the development of KANT applications include:,, Structured Tools for Editing Domain KnowledgeSources.
We use the ONTOS knowledge acquisitiontool, developed at the Center for Machine Translation,for the creation and update of our domain model (Kauf-mann, 1991).
ONTOS incorporates a graphic browserinterface for rapid access with an integrated, structurededitor to support development of large-scale domain hi-erarchies (Carlson and Nirenbuig, 1990).?
Automatic Corpus Analysis Tools.
To analyze quicklysample corpora fora domain under development, KANTmakes use of automatic corpus analysis tools that seg-ment the text and pre-proeess it to produce preliminaryvocabulary lists.
The tagged corpora re then availablefor selective on-line development and debugging of lin-guistic knowledge sources.ACl~S DE COLING-92, NANTnS, 23-28 not'rr 1992 1 0 7 0 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTEs, AUG. 23-28, 1992* Semi-Automated Acquisition ~lbols.
Following corpusanalysis, KANT automatically extracts a syntactic lexi-con and set of interpretation rules for the sample corpus.This is achieved by extracting the relevant vocabularyitems from a master lexicon, and using a pre-definedmapping rule hierarchy and default mapping rule tem-plates.
These knowledge sources are then incrementallyrefined by the system developer once the bulk of thetedious work has been done automatically.We are currently extending our tools so that they may beused to partially automate the process of knowledge acqui-sition for generation lexicons, grammars and mapping rules.We anticipate that this should not be difficult, since the for-malisms used for generation knowledge are similar to thoseused in analysis.1.5 Knowledge Ire-compilation for Run-time EfficiencyKnowledge-based translation systems require the use of sev-eral complex knowledge sources (e.g., grammars, mappingrules, domain models, etc.).
It is important to support hedeclarative specification of knowledge sources to facilitateknowledge acquisition by human experts; on the other hand,it is absolutely necessary to encode that knowledge at run-time in the most efficient procedural form possible.
Oursystem uses the Generalized LR Parser-Compiler (Tomita etal., 1988) to compile the LFG source grammar into a last,efficient run-time parsing table.
The GenKit grammar com-piler (Tomita & Nyberg, 1988) is used to compile the LFGtarget grammar into a set of efficient CommonLisp functionsfor generation, which are further compiled into object code bythe CommonLisp compiler.
Our analysis and generation map-ping rules are compiled into decision trees which optimize theamount of processing required to locate and evaluate the mostappropriate mapping rule for a given syntactic structure orInterlingua concept.
Although these compilation techniqueshave afforded us a high degree of run-time fficiency andacceptable translation speed, we are currently investigatingthe cross-compilation f our system into C to achieve furtherspeed-up.1.6 Modular System ArchitectureTo support efficient development of multi-lingual translationcapability, KANT has a modular system architecture.
Theparser and generator a e independent components ( ee Figure1); as a result, any source language supported by the sys-tem can be translated toany target language supported by thesystem.
This architecture allows knowledge sources for dif-ferent languages to be combined easily in new applicationsto support rations ource and target combinations.
It is alsothe case that a modular design decreases development time,since it allows parallel development of knowledge bases forthe source and target language(s).Each linguistic processing module in our system consistsof a procedural nd a declarative component, the proceduralcomponent capturing the general algorithm to be used, andthe declarative component representing the specific knowl-edge required by that algorithm for a particular language.This makes it possible to add new knowledge for additionallanguages without having to re-write the general code for thesystem modules.2 Character i s t i cs  o f  the  KANT SystemThe KANT architecture has the following characteristics:?
Semantic Accuracy and Completeness.
"lb be semantically accurate, a system must produce acomplete, correct and unambiguous Interlingua repre-sentation for each input sentence; it must also produce acomplete, correct and unambiguous output sentence foreach Interlingua representation.
In a narrow technicaldomain, KANT achieves near-perfect semantic accuracy.Once all relevant domain knowledge has been acquiredby the system, the Interpreter is able to disambiguate anypotentiaUy ambiguous structural ttachments to removespurious interpretations of the input.
The Interpreteralso discards any lnteflingua representations which arenot complete interpretations of the Source F-Structure.?
Grammatical Accuracy.To achieve the objective of no post-editing, semantic ac-curacy by itself does not suffice.
Accurate Interlinguarepresentations cannot be produced unless the systemhas an adequate grasp of the source language syntax; norcan the system produce accurate target ext from an ac-curate Interlingua unless it has adequate coverage of thetarget language syntax.
In addition to purely semanticinformation, the Interlingaa must also represent certainfeatures of the input text, such as modality, aspect, dis-course markers, etc.
in order to generate grammaticallyaccurate output exts.
Our system uses explicit syntacticgrammars, written in the LFG grammatical formalism,for the source language and target language(s).
Ourgrammars include rules to handle both the basic semen-tial syntax of the language and discourse-level markers.?
High Quality Output.To go beyond semantic and grammatical ccuracy andproduce stylistically correct output, a translation systemmust have a good grasp of the textual structure of thetarget language as well as its sentential syntax.
Thisrequires an explicit representation f textual relationsbetween clauses and sentences, and the ability to selectand produce complex sentence structures when appro-priate.
The mapping rules used by KANT's Mapper cannot only select the correct single phrase for an Inter-lingua concept, but also create more complex syntacticconstructions when appropriate.
Thus the ability of thesystem to generate stylistically correct output is limitedonly by the amount of effort dedicated to the constructionof mapping rules for the target language.ACTVLS DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOt~T 1992 I 0 7 1 PRO(:.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUO.
23-28, 19923 Current ResultsThe present KANT prototype produces very accurate transla-tions, without human disambiguation r post-editing, such asthose illustrated in Figures 3-5.
The system has been testedon a corpus of several hundred sentences of pre-authored text,with 100% accuracy and good quality.
We intend to extendincrementally the coverage of KANT, while simultaneouslymaintaining the current level of accuracy and speed, in or-der to provide a smooth transition path from prototype to alarger-scale application system.?
The KANT prototype has been implemented in the do-main of technical electronics manuals, and translatesfrom English to Japanese, French and German.?
The current English lexicon contains about 14,000 gen-eral word senses and several hundred technical terms.The target language lexicons contain these technicalterms and a smaller subset of the general terms, andare currently being extended.
The eventual goal is tosupport a lexicon of 30-40,000 terms.?
The current Domain Model contains over 500 conceptframes, which correspond tothe meanings present in thesample corpora currently translated.
We expect he sizeof the Domain Model to grow rapidly as more knowledgeis acquired.?
KANT is implemented in CMU CommonLisp, and runson IBM APC/RT workstations, which are rated at about2.5 MIPS.
Using this hardware, our system has achieveda translation speed of 1-3 seconds per sentence Fastertranslations are expected with newer hardware.References\[1\] Carlson, L. and S. Nirenburg (1990).
World Modelling forNLP.
Technical Report CMU-CMT-90-121, Center for Ma-chine Translation, Carnegie Mellon University.\[21 DeMauro, P. and M. J. Russo (1984).
"Computer AssistedTranslation atXEROX Corporation," Proceedings of the 25thAnnual Conference of the American Translators Association.New York, NY, September 19-23.\[3\] Kaufmann, T. (1991).
The ONTOS User's Guide.
TechnicalMemo, Center for Machine Translation, Carnegie Mellon Uni-versity.\[4\] Mitamura, T (1989).
The Hierarchical Organization of Pred-icate Fraraes for Imerpretive Mapping in Natural LanguageProcessing, PhD thesis, University of Pittsburgh.\[5\] Mitamura, T.andE.
Nyberg (1990).
"Multiple Inheritance andInterpretive Mapping in Machine Translation," unpublishedmanuscript.\[6\] Nyberg.
E., R. MeCardell, D. Gates and S. Nirenburg (1991).
"Target Text Generation," in Goodman and Niranburg (eds),A Case Study in Knowledge-BasedMachine Translation, SanMateo, CA: Morgan Kaufmann.\[71 Tomita, M., T. Mitamura, H. Masha, and M. Kee (1988).
TheLR Parser-Compiler User's Guide, Version 8.1.
CMU-CMT-88-MEMO.
Center for Machine Translation, Carnegie MeUonUniversity.\[8\] Tomita, M. and E, Nyberg (1988).
The GenKit and Transfor-malion Kit User's Guide, Technical Memo, Center for Ma-chine "IYanslation.
Carnegie Mellon University, CMU-CMT-88-MEMO.iE: io,?
?Figure 1: KANT: Knowledge-Based Natural Language"h'anslationSafety WarningsRead the "General Installation Information" section of thismanual.
Then, follow the instructions in the "'Safety Warn-ings" section.In order to prevent a fire hazard, do not overload AC outlets.In the following cases, TV sets can overheat:1.
The ventilation slots are blocked.2.
The 'IV set is placed in a built-in enclosure.Periodically clean the ventilation slots with your vacuumcleaner.If the "IV set has been dropped, a shock hazard may exist.
Inthis case, unplug the TV set.
Then call your dealer.Figure 2: Sample English Source Text Input to KANTAcres DE COLING-92, NArcrEs, 23-28 Aofrr 1992 1 0 7 2 PROC.
OF COLING-92, NANTES, AUO.
23-28, 1992Conseils de s~eurit~Consulter la section de ce manuel intitul~ "Renseignementspour installation".
Ensuite, se conformer anx instructiousfigurant ~t la section intitulOe"Conseils desOcuritC'.Afin d'Oviter tout risque d'incendie, ne jamais surcharger lesprises CA.Dans les cas suivants, un t616viseur peut surchauffer:1.
La grille de ventilation est bloquOe.2.
Le tOl6viseur est plac6 dans un coin renfoncO.D~poussi6rer l~riodiquement la grille de ventilation A l'aided'un aspirateur.La chute du tOtOviseur peut provoquer un risque de choc61ectrique.
En ce cas, d6brancher le t616viseur.
Ensuite fakeappel au dOtaillant.Figure 3: French Target Text Produced by KANTSicherheitsbestimmungenLesen Sie den Abschnitt "Allgemeine Informationen zurInstallation" in diesem Handbuch.
Folgen Sie dann denAnweisungen i dem Abschnitt "Sicherheitsbestimmungen".Vermeiden Sie Feuergefahren, i dem Sie die Netzanschlllssenicht 0berlasten.Femsehger~lte kt)nnen in den folgenden Fftllen ilberhitz~en:1.
Die Ktihlschlitze sind blockiert.2.
I)as Femsehgerlit s eht in einem Einbauschrank.Reinigen Sie regelm/tBig die Ktlhlschlitze mit dem Staub-sauger.Wenn Sie das Femsehgerilt fallenlassen, kann die Gefahr einesElektroschocks bestehen.
Ziehen Sie in diesem Fall den Netz-stecker.
Verst/indigen Sie dann lhren Kundendienst.Figure 4: German Target Text Produced by KANT,)~,,a)#l!~tt~Pliqt.
:~lZ, zl>'~'/blZ'lll;131a)lllt\]~D49~l-l'~'.c~%'T~-~ ,~l~Wl~:t -7-1~ Uhl~--,";- L: -- I-'?.& C ~hl~9 ?T.2.
~ g "9t' i '~ "l'tl:t,::ill'lflz if" L. Ic'hl/) (,.Figure 5: Japanese Target Text Produced by KANT= (translete selltS)"Pevtodicellly, cle~l t l~ vent41ation slots wl~h ~ ~ ctlmillv.
~t X~tJr~B f-structtl~(s) ft3uad in 0,89 ~ec~-ds of rmsi time((MOOD niP) (FORM BOOTFOII4) (GAP -) (VALE/ICY OWLS) (CAT V)(ROOT "clee~")(PBE~((CAr ADV) (Boor "periodically')))(OBJ((COUNt +) (cAr N) $~r "slot") (SL'M tI~.VENTILATION-~t0r) ( !
PL)((CAr ~r )  (Boor "the~)))))(w(IL~, -) (CAT o) (Boor " .
l~" )  ( s l~or  ~tsrmMeer)( ~  +) (CAr N) (~ ,O-VACL J~)  (Boor "cl,...,-")((CAT DEr) (toOl %~,Jr"))))))))1 intei~llriliUa r'eP"osoritlltlon(s) round:/ ~ A:~I;IJENCY ~IOOICALLY) THEME ( ~O-VENr KAT IOM-~_OTI~)DEF~ITE)  ) )( INSTRLI4ENr ( *O-VACLU4-CLE/~PE~ON SECONDt tn~tet f-structure(s) fotm~l:((riME ((mor PBESl3WT))) (rOmtt.
+) (cAu~rivE -) (PASSIVE -)(MOOD ((ROOt iMP))) (BOOr SouJrsUBU) (car V) (SUBCAr TPA~)(VTVPE V-SNEN) (SteJ-ca~ GA) (OB.~A,~ O)(OBJ ((CASE O) (BOOr TLtIKIKOU) (CAT N) (~ -)))(AI~/gfidI.INCT (($~\]OT TEIKIIIgqNI) (cAr ADV)))(PPADJUNCT ((ROOT ~CUJIKI) (CaT N) (~ -) (l~r DE) (O}MPNO~ C/O)))i oJtout strife(s) fourld:,11\]Figure 6: Sample Translation to Japanese of One SelectedSentence, Showing Intermediate F-Structures and Inter-lingua RepresentationACT~ DE COLING-92, NANTES, 23-28 AOU'I" 1992 I 0 7 3 PROC.
OF COL1NG-92, NANTES, AUO.
23-28, 1992
