INTERLANGUAGE S IGNS AND LEX ICAL  TRANSFER ERRORSAtle RoDepartment of Linguistics and PhoneticsUniversity of Bergenro@hLuib.noAbst ractA theory of interlanguage (IL) lexicons is outlined, withemphasis on IL lexical entries, based on the HPSGnotion of lexical sign.
This theory accounts foridiosyncratic or lexical transfer of syntacticsubcategorisation andidioms from the first language tothe IL.
It also accounts for developmental stages in ILlexical grammar, and grammatical variation i  the use ofthe same lexical item.
The theory offers a tool forrobust parsing of lexical transfer errors and diagnosis ofsuch errors.In t roduct ion~ Computational error diagnosis of secondlanguage (L2) input should be based on L2acquisition theory.
In this paper, I outline atheory of second language lexical items whichcan be exploited computationally for robustparsing and error diagnosis.
L2 is interpretedas interlangnage (IL) in the sense of Selinker(1972).
A unification-based lexicalist view ofgrammar is assumed (HPSG theory).
Thepaper has the following outline: first lexicaltransfer is presented, then interlanguage l xicalentries are discussed, and finally someproblems concerned with robust parsing anderror diagnosis based on such lexical entries arepointed out.Lex lea l  t rans ferA theory of IL should account for lexicaltransfer from the first language (L1).
By lexicaltransfer I mean that idiosyncratic properties ofL1 lexical items are projected onto thecorresponding target language (Lt) lexicali tems.
By ' cor respond ing '  I meantranslationally related.
I will consider two typesof lexieal transfer; translational transfer ofidiomatic expressions, and transfer of L1subcategorisation frames.
Translational transferof L1 idiomatic expressions i exemplified in(1), with translational transfer from French(Cf.
Catt (1988)).
(1) *My friend has hunger.Mon ami a faim.In unification-based grammatical frameworks,like HPSG, idiomatic expressions like avoirfaim can be formalised as special cases ofsubcategorisation (for an LFG-style account ofidioms, see Dyvik (1990)) 1, and can thus becovered by the account I give of this type oftransfer, to which we will now turn.
Theexamples in (2)-(3) illustrate negative lexicaltransfer from Spanish in Norwegianinterlanguage.
(2) *Jeg kunne ikke svare til Per.I could not answer to Per.
(3) No podfa responder a Per.Not could- 1 sg answer to Per.
'I could not answer Per'.Tile Norwegian verb svare subcategorises foran object NP, while the Spanish verb with tilesame meaning, responder, subcategorises for aPP headed by tile preposition a ("to").
TheSpanish subcategorisation frame thus admitsthe erroneous VP (w.r.t.
Norwegian grammar)in (2).
i assume that 1L lexical items are linkedto corresponding L1 items by structt~re-sharing.
Thus subcategorisation informationfrom L1 lexical items can be used in generatinginterlanguage strings, and lexical transfer of thekind illustrated in (2) can be accounted for.
Ifurther make the idealisation that LI wordforms are not used as "terminal vocabulary" ininterlanguage strings.Lex ica l  ent r ies  in I LHow can these ideas be formalised?
Wewill first consider the format which will beused for representing L1 lexical entries, that of1 Althot,gh it is not as straightforward asordinarysubcategorisation, oneneeds e.g.
to distinguish between"pseudo-idioms" like avoirfaim and real idioms likekick the bucket, but a discussion of this topic is notpossible within this limited format.134Pollard and Sag (1987), and then outlineinterlanguage l xical entries.
Example (4)illustrates an underspecified lexical entry for thetransitive Norwegian verb svare ("answer").
(4)svareSYNILOC I E :.1\[SUBCAT <NP\[T \], NP\[--~SEMICONT I ANSWERER kANSW RED JIIl HPSG, syntactic ategories are signs and arerepresented as attribute-value matrices, withthree features, PHON(OLOGY) 2, SYN(TAX)and SEM(ANTICS), which (with the exceptionof PHON) can have feature structures asvalues.
The path SYNILOCISUBCAT takes alist of categories as value.
The leftmost elementin this list corresponds to the lexical bead'smost oblique complement (in (4) the objectNP), the rightmost to the least obliquecomplement, (the subject in (4)).
The featureSEM in this simple example is specified for thesemantic relation expressed by the verb, as wellas the roles the verb selects.
The categories inthe subcategorisation list are signs, for whichthe labels in (4) are a shorthand notation.
Theindices in the subcategorisation listindicate thatthe complement signs' SEM values are to bindthe variables with which they are coindexed,and which are associated with the semanticroles in the relation.
The lexical entry for theSpanish verb corresponding to svare ,responder, is illustrated below:(5)-i~HON res ~onder- DA,SYNILOC HEAD LLEXSUBCAT <PP\[\]\], NP~>\['RELN AN~\]WERIISEMICONT I ANSwEREP-_ \[_ANSWEREDThe signs in (4) and (5) are rather similar, withthe exception of the first elements in thesubcategorisation lists)(6)1,1 signIL signThe intuition is that whereas an L1 sign (inthe sense of Saussurean sign 4) has two sides, aconcept side (corresponds to the feature SEMin I IPSG) and an expression side (here calledPIION), an IL sign has three sides: a common2 I follow Pollard and Sag (1987) and, forconvenience, represent the valuc of PllONorthographically.3 Spanish direct objects arc NPs whcn they refer tonon-human entities, while objects which refer tohumans must be expressed as PPs headed by theprel)osition a ("to").
It ,night appear to be a problemflint NP and PP signs arc of the same scmantic type, butI follow Dyvik (1980) and LOdrup (1989) and callprelx)Sitional phrases which have their semantic roleassigned hy all external head, nominal; as opposed tomodifier (adjunct) PPs, which exprcss their ownsemantic roles.
Having the same semantic type,"ht,,nan" direct object PPs can be derived from NPobjects by a lexical rule.4 Cf.
de Saussure (1915).135concept side, a L1 expression side and an Lt(IL) expression side (cf.
(6)).Let us now return to the HPSG format,where it is possible to represent an IL entry andits corresponding L1 entry as a bilingual sign,similar to the concept used in machinetranslation (cf.
Tsujii and Fujita (1991)).Interlanguage l xical entries can have the formwhich is visualised in (7)-(8), which representstwo different alternatives and two differentsteps in the second language acquisitionprocess:(7)"PHON L1 responderPHON IL svareSYNILOCISUBCAT<PP\[a~\] , NP\[~\] >SEMICONT\['RELN ANSWER'\]IANSWERER\[~ /LANSWERED \[ T\]In this first alternative the expression side(PHON) of the IL entry is connected with itscorresponding L1 entry.
In this way lexicaltransfer from the L1 (cf.
example (2)) isaccounted for.
The assumption is that the L1lexical entry is basic at this stage, and the ILPHON is attached to it.In a later developmental stage, where thesyntactic properties of the IL entry are differentfrom that of the corresponding L1 entry, theSYNILOCISUBCAT path of the IL entry(abbreviated below to SUBCAT) is given itsown distinct value.
This is illustrated in figure(8):(8)~I-ION L1 responderPHON LI svareSUBCAT L1 <PP\[a\] \[17' NP \ [ \ ]  >SUBCAT 1C <NP\[~, NP~ >SEMICONTFRELN ANSWER7\]ANSWERER \['2\] \]LANSWERED i-f\] \]The lexical items are still linked because theyhave the same meaning.The above account of lexical entries allowsus to implement different stages in thedevelopment of an interlanguage l xicon.
Whatit does not do, is to account for linguisticvariability, which in L2 acquisition researchgenerally is considered to be a property of L2(cf.
e.g.
Larsen-Freeman and Long (1991)).Inthe case of lexical entries like (7) and (8),variability means that L2 users sometimes willuse this item in accordance with Lt grammar,and sometimes not.
But if we imagine acombination of (7) and (8), with a disjunctiveIL subcat value, as illustrated in figure (9),vltriability is also catered for.
(9)PHON LI responderPHON LI svareSUBCAT L,I\[)\] <PP\[a~\[1- \] , NP\['~-\] >SUBCAT IL <NPv~, NP\[~> v E\]SEMICONT~ELN ANSWEI~IANSWERER ~ |LANSW t ' D m _1Wh,'tt we have just discussed also illustratesa significant difference between first andsecond language acquisition.
As Odlin (1989)points out: " there is little reason to believe thatthe acquisition of lexical semantics in secondlanguage is a close recapitulation of all earlierdevelopment processes".
Ilere we have anexplication of this.
Acquisition of lexical itemsis understood as associating Lt expressionswith LI concepts, either in a one-to-onerelationship when L1 and Lt concepts aresynonymous, or in one-to many relatkms whenLI and IA concepts partially overlap 5.Future  workThe prospect of the present approach to ILlexical items, lies in the possibility which aformalisation in a lexicalist, unification-basedgrammatical fi'amework like HPSG gives forcomputational implementation, for purposeslike anticipatory robust parsing and errordiagnosis.5 In cases where an LI lexical item not even partiallycorresponds toany L1 concept (e.g Japanese bushido,"tile wily of the samurai", if Japanese is Lt and EnglishLI) the meaning of this item carl still be paraphrased bymeans of L1 concepts.136The theory itself can be used for suchpurposes without much revision: the mostimportant one is that in the bilingual signs LIattribute-value matrices must be replaced withL1 ones.
A system for robust parsing and errordiagnosis of lexical transfer errors needs Ltsubcat values for determining whethersentences have the right complements or not,and L1 simple (non-disjunctive) subcat valuesfor making hypotheses about possibleerroneous complements.My idea is to exploit he relation between Ltand L1 subcat values in a chart parser, so if aparse fails because of a mismatch between acomplement in the input string and the Ltcomplement eeded by a lexical head, the chartcan be modified such that a complementlicensed by the L1 subcat specification isintroduced into the chart as an alternative to theincompatible complement specification i the Ltsubcat list.This is not unproblematic, however,because ven in successful chart parses, manyhypotheses fail.
Lexical entries with ahernativesubcategorisation frames (e.g.
SUBCAT<X,(Y),(Z)>, where Y and Z are optional) arecommon.
The longer tim sentence, and themore lexical heads, the larger is the number ofhypotheses which will fail.
In the case oferroneous trings, how can a system decidewhich hypotheses tomodify, in order to acceptsuch strings?
Modifying all edges which failwill even in simple sentences soon lead to anexplosion of new edges.
Deciding which errorhypotheses are the most promising is a centralcomputational question to which future worknmst be dedicated.ConclusionA theory of IL signs, which accounts forlexical transfer, has been presented.
Transferhas been a controversial subject in secondlanguage acquisition (SLA) research, and itsimportance as a property of L2s has beenevaluated ifferently through the history ofSLA research.
Scientists have disagreedwhether properties of L2 production can beattributed to transfer or other factors, such asuniversal developmental sequences (cf.
e.g.Meisel et al (1981)).
In my opinion lexicaltransfer is an interesting aspect of thisdiscussion.
As it is associated with individuallexieal items it has a stronger case that moregeneral types of transfer (e.g.
transfer of wordorder).
When faced with an error wheresyntactic or semantic properties of an IL lexicalitem diverge from the standard of Lt, but arestrikingly similar to properties of thecorresponding L1 lexical item, lexical transferis a likely explanation.AcknowledgementsI would like to thank Helge Dyvik,Torbj~rn Nordgfird and two anonymousreviewers for their valuable comments.
I alsowant to thank P, ichard Pierce for his helpfuladvice with the wording of the paper.Re ferencesCatt, M. E. (1988).
Intelligent Diagnosis ofUngrammaticality in Computer-AssistedLanguage Instruction.
Technical ReportCSRI-218.
University of Toronto.Dyvik, II.
(1980).
Grammatikk og empiri.I)octoral thesis, University of Bergen.Dyvik, I I.
(1991).
The PONS Project.
Featuresof a Translational System.
Skrifseric nr.39, Department of Linguistics andPhonetics, University of Bergen.Larsen-Freenmn, D. and M. H. Long (1991).An Introduction to Second LanguageAcquisition Research.
Longman, London.Lc6drup, 11.
(1989).
Norske hypotagmer.
EnLFG-beskrivelse av ikke-verbale norskehypotagmer.
Novus, Oslo.Meisel, J, fI.
Clahsen and M. Pienemann(1981).
On determining developmentalstages in natural language acquisition.Studies in second language acquisition 3(1): 109-35.Odlin, T. (1989).
Language Transfer.
Cross-linguistic influence in language learning.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.Pollard, C. and 1.
T. Sag (1987).
Information-Based Syntax and Semantics.
Vohtme 1:Fundamentals.
CSLI Lecture Notes,Stanford.Saussurc, I v. de (1915).
Course in GeneralLinguistics.
Published in 1959 byMacGraw Ilill, New York.Selinker, L. (1972).
Interhmguage.
In IRAL,X.3, 219-231.Tsujii, J. and K. Fujita (1991).
Lexical mmsferbased on bilingual signs: Towardsinteraction during transfer.
In Proceedingsof EACL, Berlin, Germany.137Morphology & Tagging
