EXTENDING DRT WITH A FOCUSING MECHANISM FOR PRONOMINAl .
ANAPHORA ANDELL IPS IS  RESOLUTIONJos6 Abraqos, Jos6 Gabriel Lopes - (jea,gpl) @fct.unl.ptCRIA/UNINOVA, Faculdade de Ci6ncias eTccnologia, 2825 Monte da Capafica, PortugalABSTRACTCormack (1992) proposed a framework forpronominal naphora resolution.
Her proposal integratesfocusing theory (Sidner et al) and DRT (Kamp andReyle).
We analyzed this methodology and adjusted it tothe processing of Portuguese texts.
The scope of theframework was widened to cover sentences containingrestrictive relative clauses and subject ellipsis.
Tests wereconceived and applied to probe the adequacy of proposedmodifications when dealing with processing of currenttexts.1.
INTRODUCTIONPronominal anaphora resolution, as part o1' a moregeneral process of anaphora resolution, is a determinantstep in constructing a semantic representation f a text.Although "general cognitive processes DO play a role inestablishing anaphoric dependencies (...)" (Kempson,1990 p.14), inference is, in computational terms, a veryexpensive process, both for the amount of processinginvolved and for the extension of the knowledge basesrequired.
Therefore, any system aiming at efficiency inanaphora resolution should minimize the role ofinference.As far as DRT is concerned, the construction rule forpronouns lates that the referent introduced by thepronoun should be bound to a suitable referent, chosenamong those that are accessible (Kamp and Reyle, 1993p.122).
The accessibil ity is based on semanticconstraints and is expressed by the structure of DRSrepresenting the text.
However the suitability of referentsis ill-defined.Another perspective for anaphora resolution isfounded on the principle of relevance, i.e.
on "thepresumption that every utterance is selected to conveythe intended interpretation while imposing to the hearerthe least amount of processing effort in constructing thatinterpretation" (Kempson 1990 p.17).
Focusing/centering theories (Grosz; Sidner; Brenn,'m, Friedman andPollard et al) can be considered as having thisperspective.
They try to keep track of the focus ofattention along the text and bind pronouns preferentiallyto focused entities.
The choice of antecedents is based onpragmatic constraints, which put an ordering onpreferences between ,antecedent czmdidates.Cormack proposes the integration of focusing andDRT, "(...) adding semantic onstraints to a model ofattention in discourse" (Cormack, 1992 p.5).
Thisintegration compensates for two shortcomings of DRT:it considers too many possibilities for anaphoric bindingand doesn't provide an ordering between antecedentcandidates.
From the focusing point of view, the additionof semantic constraints, provided by DRT, to thepragmatic ordering further estricts the determination fpossible antecedents.We analyzed Cormack's proposal, and found out thatit was lacking some features that we consider moreadequate, as it will be shown in the next few sections.Therefore we adapted it, and applied the modified versionto the processing of texts written in Portuguese.
Thescope of d~osc mcthods was widened to cover sentencescontaining restrictive relative clauses and subject ellipsis.Tests were conceived and applied to probe the adequacy ofproposed modifications when dealing with processing ofcurrent texts.2.
SIMPLE SENTENCES2.1.
Alterations to DRTCor,nack defends that pronouns of the currentsentence can only have access to two groups of referents:focused referents and those unfocused ones that wereintroduced by the preceding sentence.
Referents notfitting any of these two groups can be forgotten.
Let uslook at an example (Connack, 1992 p.350):(la) John took apart he chest 0 f drawers.
(lb) it was full of clothes pegs.The DRS representing the first sentence will be (foct, sedreferents are shown on the left, unfocused ones on theright):5> I< .j c >John0)chest of drawers(c)Iook_apan(j,c)The second sentence introduces another DRS.
Anaphorsare resolved with referents of previous DRS,I <>l<jc> <c>I<P> John(j) 'clothes_pegs(P) chest of drawers(c) \[ full of(c,P) took_apart(i,c),and then previous DRS can be "R~rgotten":1128i , <c>l<P>clothes_pegs(P)t'nll of(c,P)Referent John, who was introduced by (la), was onlyavailable for anaphor esolution in (lb).
Since it wasnever focused, it is "forgotten".
This means that it is nolonger included in the referents of the DRS representingthe text after processing of the second sentence,becoming unavailable as antecedent candidate forpronouns in following sentences.
This claim may seem alittle strange if we look at ( lc) as an acceptable thirdscntenee:(lc) l ie didn't like dmir color.Two other aspects of Cormack's representation led usto prefer to keep to the original DRT formalism.
First,Cormack's representation is too conditioned bypronominal anaphora resolution.
Referents that becomeunavailable for pronominal reference, and are therefore"forgotten", may still be cospecified hy definitedescriptions.
Eliminating them from tbe representationwould be a limit to the possibilities of expanding thesystem in the fltture.
Second, "forgetting" conditionsintroduced by previous sentences leads to a situationwhere the DRS representing Ihe text at a given momentwill contain little information about the text, and noinformation at all about some of the "surviving"referents?
For instance, looking at the last DRSpresented, we no longer know what entity introducedreferent cl.2.2.
Focusing a lgor i thmsMost focusing theories keel) referents that can berelevant in future anaphora resolution in focus stores.Sidner considers two groups of focus stores, which in avery short and simplistic way can be described as:those related to agent tAG) role:actor locus (AF) - AG of current sentence or previousAF, if current sentence has no AG;potential actor focus list (PAFL) - other animatereferents of current sentence;actor focus stack (AFS) - previous AFs;those related to other thematic roles:discourse focus (DF) -?
DF of previous entence, if referred with a pronoun incurrent mntence;?
referent of the highest ranking pronoun 2 in currentmntence;?
theme, in discourse initial sentences;1 We can, of course, overcome this limitation by creating atext knowledge base where all the restrictions uponreferents are present.2 sue (Sidner.
1979), (Cormack, 1992) for details about hisrankingpotential discourse locus list (PDFL) - referents ofcurrent sentence excluding DF;discourse focus stack (DFS) - previous DFs.In determining the antecedent of a pronoun,algorithms go through some preliminary considerations(such as recency rule) and a basic ordering of focusstores.AF - DF distinctionAlthough taking Sidner's algorithms as a startingpoint, Cormack renounces the distinction between actorfocus and discourse focus, in the final part of her work.The algorithms become more simple but they loose indiscriminatory power.
This is particularly moresignificant in a language like Portuguese, wherenominals can only be masculine or feminine (notneuter)?
In a text like(2a) O Jofio escreveu m livro.John wrote a book.
(AF = John, DF = a book)(2b) A Maria lets-().Mary read it.eliminating the distinction between AF and DF wouldlead to Jodo (lohn) being proposed as preferred antecedentof the masculine pronoun o (it).
Rejecting this bindingwould require an appeal to inference, wlfich is somethingthat we want to minimize.
Keeping AF - DF distinctionwill also be significant in dealing with anotherphenomenon very common in Portuguese: subject (SU)ellipsis.Recency rule"if the pronoun under consideration occurs in thesubjcct position, and there is an alternate focus listnoun phrase which occurs as the last constituent inthe previous sentence, test that alternate focus listphrase for co-st)ecification before testing the currentfocus.
(...)" (Sidner, 1979 p.144).Sidner admits that "the recency rule makes focussingseem somewhat ad hoc" (ibid.
), Carter states that "itsinclusion in SPAR led to considerable inaccuracy"(Cartes" 1987 p.114) and Cormack decides to ignore it too(Cormack, 1992 p.54), ttowever, it seems that, inPortuguese, this rule should be considered for pronounsin AG position:(3a) A Maria i deu um livm a Anaj.Mary i gave Annj a book.If tile agent of the ncxt sentence is Mary there are twoix)ssit)ilities of pronominalization: the prontmn ela (she)or the null pronoun (~ (SU ellipsis).
This last optionwill be l)mferrexl:(3b) ~i comprara-o num leilfio.
?i had bought it at an auction?1129But if the agent of the next sentence is Ann, the onlypossibility of pronominalization will be the cxplicitpronoun ela (she):(3b') Elaj Icu-o.Shej read it.So thc speaker will tend to use a null pronoun in AGposition to eospccify the agcnt of the previous entcncc,reserving the explicit pronoun a use that conforms withthc recency rule.Intrasentential  anaphoraCarter inserts intrasentential candidates (ISC) betweencurrent feel and potential oci, in the basic ordering.Cormack distinguishes between focused ISC andremainder oflSC.
In our implementation this distinctionseemed unnecessary and we decided to insert ISC alterpotential foci, in thc basic ordering.
A special casc ofISC is the reflexivc pmn(mn se (himself/herse!f/itself/themselves).
We always bind it to the agent of thescntcnce.
(4) O camelo i dcitou-se i na arcia.The camel i laid (itse!f i) down on the sand.Intrasentential  catapboraIn our implementation, syntatic parsing is doneaccording to grammar (levclopment formalisms hased onbarricrs, movcment and binding (Lopcs 1991).
It is ancxtension of thc extraposition grammar formalism(Pereira 1981) and allows for movement of constituentsof a scntencc in a rcstrictcd area delimited by harricrs.The resulting synUltic trcc will always show the intcrnalarguments of the verb on it's right, no matter whatpositions they had in the original sentence.
For instance,the syntatic trec for(5) Near her, the blond girl saw a man.will be:SNP VPNP PPlhe blond girl saw a man near herThe anaphora resolution process works on the restdtsof the syntatic parser, so this kind of cataphora will betrc~lted as intrasentential anaphora.Subject  ellipsisAs mentioned above, this is a very commonphcnomcnon in Portugncse language.
Null pronoml inAG position seems to behave differently from onc innon-AG position.
In thc first case it cospecifies AF or acombination of foci including AF:(6a) A Maria i dccidiu ofcrcccr aquele perfume hArm.Mary i decided to offer Ann that perfume.
AF = Mary(6b) ~i gostava muito dole.
(b i liked it very much.A null pronoun in non-AO position cospccifics DF or acombination of foci including DF:(7a) O Joao poisou o livro i sobrc o piano.John put the book i on the piano.
DF = the book(7b) (Diem grandee pesado.~i was big and heavy.Ratif ication procedureBoth Sidner and Cormack leave all verifications ofsyntactic agreement and consistency with worldknowlextge to a ratification procedure, to be appliexl aftercompletion of focusing process.
Efficiency can beimproved if inexpensive number and gcnder agreementand reflexivity verificatk)ns arc included in the focusingproccss.
Thus, scvcral inadcqrmte candidates can be ruledout without a call to the ratification procedure.3.
SENTENCES CONTAININGRESTRICT IVE  RELAT IVE  CLAUSESGoing beyond simple sentcnces, we widcncd thcscope of the prescntcd methods to includc sentcnccs withrestrictive relative clauses (for short, we'll just use theform relative clauses in the remainder of this paper).Rules for focus movement and refcrcnts accessibilitywere formulated and tests werc dcsignetl to probe theiradcqt, acy.
In this secti(m we refer to the results of aqucstionnairc answered by 40 collcge students.Focus movement(8a) O Joao leu unl livro i.John read a book i. DF = a book(8b) O homemj que o i cscreveu morreu.The manj who wrote it i died.
(8c) Os eruditos cnalteceram-no i v j ?
muito.Erudite people praised him~it i v j ?
much.According to focusing rules, tile pronoun in (8c)cospecifies DF of (8b).
ff lnXmouns in relative clauseswere able to influence focus then (81)) would confirm abook as DF and this would be the antecedent of thepronoun in (8c).
That doesn't sccm to be the case.
Theintuitively preferred antecedent is the man.
Examples likethis show that pronouns occurring within relative clausesdofft seem to inlluence focus movement.
Thiscolmlusion was confirmed by 83% of the answers to thealx)ve mentioned questionnaire.Access of following sentences to relativeclause referentsReferents introduced 1)y the relative clause arcacccssiblc hut arc not preferred to main clause rcfcrcnts.The qucstionnairc prcscnted the text:1130(9) 0 homem a quem u,n ladr~o roubou o rcldgiochamou a polfcia.
Ele ...The man whom a thief stole the watch from calh:dthe police, l ie ...58% of the continuations proposed bind the pronoun tothe main clause referent the man while only 28% indicatebinding with file relative clause referent a thief.Access of the relative clause to main clausereferents(10) O Joao deu um livro i at) ahmo qnc o i merecia.John gave a book i to the student who deserved iti.Pronouns in the relative clause can cospecify both mainclause referents or focus stores.
The first situation seemsto be preferred except, perhaps, for pronouns in AGposition, that show a weak preference (suplx)rted by 61%of the answers) for cospecification with AF or a memberof PAFL.Access of the main clause to relative clausereferents(11) O homem que escreveu m l ivro i deu-o i a Maria.The man who wrote a book i gave it i to Mary.Pronouns in the main clause, occunilLg after the relativeclause, can cospecify it's rclerents, lake Cormack, weconskler access to focus storcs to be more likely, lint thispreference was not confirmed by the results of thequestionnaire (60% of the answers were against).Access of relative clause to relative clause(12) O homem qtte a Maria i viu escreven um livro title a iimprcssionou.The man who was seen by Mary i wrote a book thatimpressed her i.Pronouns in the second relative clause can cospccifyreferents of the first one.
ttowever, it seems that mainclause referents hould be prelerrtxl as antecedents.
Theexample used to test this preference was not very clearand so we've got 63% of negative answers.Transitive access to a main clause(13) A Maria i casou corn o cliente qlce conlprou 0 livroque ela i e~reven.Mary i married the client who bought the book thatshe i wrote.Pronouns in ,'1 nested relative clause cnt| cospccify mainclause referents.
Preference seems to be given toantcccxlent candidates of the main clause over those el: thenesting relative chmse, but this hypothesis was nottestexl.Transitive access to a relative clause(14) O cliente que comprou () livro que a emprcgada iescrcveu casou corn ela i.The client who bought the book that was writtenby the employee i married her i.Pronouns in the main clause can cospccify nested relativeclntnse referents.
Candidate nnteccxlents occurring in thenesting relative clause seem to be preferred though.
Thispreference is supported by 75% of the answers.Ordering autecedent candidatesWe can summarize this analysis in the followingrules lot predicting antecedents.
These rules wereimplemented without signif icant changes to thealgorithm establishcd lbr simple sentences.Relative clause pronotms:AG position:: main clause AGnot null: Ab', PAFL, main clause refs.,remainder of focus storesnon-AG position: main clause refs., lbcus stores,Main clause pronouns:Prcc(xling a relative clause: focus stores\[q)llowing a l+clative clause: idem excluding stacks,relative clause rel~., slacksFolk)wing sentence pronouns-main clause refs., relativeclause refs., slacksNested relative clauses: They have transitive access tomain clause refs.
Main clause pronouns prefernesting clause refs.
to nested clause ones.Relative clauses as condit ionalsBoth Kamp (1993 p.81) and Cormack (1992 p.347)propose a "flat" treatment of relative clauses.
Both it'sreferents (with the possible exception of proper names)and conditions are introduced in current DRS.
(15) Jones owns a book which Smith adores.
(Kamp and Reyle, 1993 p.78-83)xyzJones(x)\[xx)k(y)Smith(z)z adorcs yX !
)~'I)S y(16) A man who owns a donkey pays.
(Cormack, 1992 p.347)<> I <tn, d>mau(m)donkey(drIll owns  dm paysAccording to Marcus (1979 1).289) the interpretationconveyed hy this kind of representation wouldn't be1131adequate to all kinds of relative clauses in Portuguese,namely those whose verb is in subjunctive mood.
(17) Um agricultor que tenha um burr() bate-lhe.A farmer who (subjunctive of ~ )  a donkey beatsit.This kind of sentences i  associated to non-factual,hypothetical presuppositions and is semanticallyequivalent o an implication relation between twoclauses:(17') Seum agricultor tern um burro entfio bate-lhe.If a farmer owns a donkey then he beats it.So, our implementation represents his kind of sentencesas conditionals:\ [xydonkey(y)owns(x,y)zw=7> Z=Xw=ybeats(z,w)Our rules for anaphora resolution will then be applied asusual, taking in consideration both focusing andsemantic (DRT-detennined) acessihility constraints.4.
TESTINGTests were conceived with the only purpose ofprobing the adequacy of proposed modifications.
One ofthe tests, the questionnaire, has already been inentioned.It consisted of two parts.
In the first one there were shorttexts (2-4 sentences) where some referents wereintroduced.
The last sentence was always incomplete andcontained a pronoun.
The continuation proposed by thestudent was supposed to show which co-specification hehad chosen.
Since the evaluation of this part might beinfluenced by intuition, it was committed to 3independent evaluators, who were found to agree on 80%of the answers.
The second part consisted of texts of thesame kind, but where all sentences were co,nplete.
Thestudent was asked to identify explicitly theco-specification of a pronoun introduced by the lastsentence.
The results concerning relative clauses werepresented in last section.
Recency rule and rules forsubject ellipsis were confirmed respectively by 77% and85% of the answers.The two other tests consisted of applying the rulesfor relative clauses to all anaphome found in currenttexts, and whose antecedent oranapho," were introducedby a relative clause.
"Fhe first target ext was a novel by afamous Portuguese writer of lhe end of last century, Eqade Queiroz (19(/0).
The news of a Portuguese newsagency (Lusa, 1993) provided 637 kbytes of fresh(June93) raw material for the last test.
The rulesperformed correctly in respectively 96% and 92% of thecases.5.
CONCLUSIONWe developed and implemented a mechanism \['orpronominal naphora resolution, integrating focusing andDRT, and adjusted to Portuguese language processing.Modifications to other authors proposals includedrecovering AF - DF distinction and recency rule,handling intrasentential naphora, cataphora, subjectellipsis, restrictive relative clauses and, in particular,Ihose containing subjunctives.Focusing mechanisms enabled the reduction andordering of the set of possible antecedents for eachanaphor.
Final ratification or rejection of each suggestedco-specification would require the use of worldknowledge and reasoning.
That was beyond the aim ofthis work.The analysis made for restrictive relative clausesshould be extended to other constructions ofsubordination and coordination, in order to establishmore general rules.
We believe that many questionsraised here might be relevant o processing of otherromance languages.REFERENCESBrennan, S., M. Friedman and C. Pollard (1987).
Acentering approach to pronouns.
In Proceedings of the25th Annual Meeting of ACL, Sumford University,California, p. 155-162.Carter, D. (1987).
Interpreting anaphors in naturallanguage texts, E. Horwood Limited Ed., Chichester,England.Cormack, S. (1992).
Focus and DiscourseRepresentation Theory, Ph.D. Thesis, University ofEdinburgh,Grosz, B. and C. Sidner (1986).
Attention, intensions,and the structure of discourse.
ComputationalLinguistics, 12 (3), p. 175-204.Kamp, H. and U. Reyle (1993).
From discourse to lo~lic,Kluwer Academic Publishers.Kempson, R. (1990).
Anaphora: a unitary account.
InProceedings of the Workshop on Anaphora, Ofir,Portugal, p. 1-36.Lopes, J.
(1991).
Movement, barriers and bindingformalism for logic Grammars development: parsers,Master Course Lectures on NLP, Universidade Novade l,isboa (manuscript).l,usa (1993).
Files containing news of Lusa newsagency, liom the 41h to the 1 lth June 93.Mateus, M. et al (1989).
Gramdtica da Lingual'ortuguesa.
Camiuho Ed., 3rd ed., IAsboa, Portugal.Pcreira, F. (198 I).
Extrapositiou Grammars.
American,lournal of Computational Linguistics, 7(4), p.243-255.Queiroz, E. (1900).
A ilustre casa de Ramires, Livros doBrasil Ed., Lisbon, Portugal.Sidncr, C. (1979).
Towards a computational theory ofdefinite anaphora comprehension in english discourse,MIT Artificial Intelligence Latx)ratory.Siduer, C. (1986).
Focusing in the comprehension fdefinite anaphora.
In Readings in Natural LanguageProcessing, Morgan Kaufmann Ed., p. 363-394.1132
