Character -based  Co l locat ion  for  Mandar in  Ch ineseChu-Ren l-luangInstitute of ltistory and PhilologyAcademia SinicaNankang, Taipei, Taiwanhschuren@ccvax.sinica.edu.twKeh-j iann ChenInstitute of Information ScienceAcademia SinicaNankang, Taipei, Taiwankchen@iis.sinica.edu.twYun-yan YangComputing CenterNational Taiwan UniversityTaipei, Taiwanyang@iis.sinica.edu.twThis paper describes a characters-based Chinesecollocation system and discusses the advantages of itover a traditiolml word-based systcm.
Since wordbreaksare not conventionally marked in Chinese text corpora, acharacter-based collocation system has the dualadvantages of avoiding pre-proccssing distortion anddirectly accessing sub-lexical information.
Furthermore,word-based collocational properties can be obtainedthrough an auxiliary modttle of automatic segmentation.corpora s they are, we ",viii be able to access ub-lexicalinformation without additional cost.
To take the fulladvantage of the nature of texts, reliable tools can alsobe devised to obtain \[exical collocation.
In this paper,we ,,viii describe the design and implementation era Chi-nese collocational system that does not require the pre-processing of automatic segmentation but is awe toallow both lexical and sub-lexical information beautomatically extracted.PI(OJ1;CT NOTE: I~ARGI; TEXT COI(I'ORA II.
Background: Corpus and Computational P atfonn1.
IntroductionCollocation has been established as an essential tool incomputational linguistics (Church and Mercer 1993).
Inaddition, various col\[ocatiomd programs have beenproven to bc indispensable in automatic acquisition of"\[exical information (e.g.
Sinclair 1991, and Bibcr i993).Sincc words arc the natural and undisputed units inavailable text corpora, virtually all the currentcollocationa\[ programs are word-based.
However, thereare languages where texts do not conventionally markwords, such as Chinese.
l_Jnlcss a large tagged corpus isavailable, a word-based collocation system in theselanguages faces tile following inevitable difficulties.First, hand-segnlentation of a large corpus is tedious andfinancially nearly impossible.
Second, automaticscgmentation prograln can neither identify words notlisted ill tile lexicon nor correctly segment all -Milch arelisted.
Third, estimation of lexical probability relies onword-ficqucncy counts based on the inaccurate resultsof automatic scgmcntation thus the deviation tcnds to begreater than standard tolerance.Text corpora without wordbreaks, nevertheless, alsohas their advantages.
Take Chinese for example, timbasic units of text corpora are zi4 'character', a fairlyfaithful representation of the morphemic level of timlanguage.
In other words, if we take Chinese IcxtThis collocation system is developed on the 20million charactcr modern Chinese corpus at AcademiaSinica (Huang and Chen 1992, lquang In Press).
Thiscorpus is composed mostly of newspaper texts.
It iscstimatcd to have 14 million words.
Followingindustrial standard in Taiwan, our collocation systemcan deal with any corpora encoded by BIG-5 code.
Theprogram is dcvclopcd undcr a UNiX cnvironmcnt on HPworkstation.
It should, howcver, be portable to anyUNIX machiac with compatible Chincse solution.
Thecollocation systcm is currcntly used in research by morethan 10 linguists affiliated with thc Chinese KnowledgeInformation Processing (CKIP) group at AcademiaSinica.
It is also open to any visiting scholar for on-siteUSe.III.
Overall Design of the SystemThere are two major modules in tile collocationsystem: one deals directly with unsegmented texts andthe other which incorporates automatic segmentationbefore collocation.
The two modules share tile pre-process of KWIC search module, which allows user-specitqed linguistic patterns (Ituang and Chen 1992).They also share three common routines to detectcharacter collocation, to identify possible collocationwords through N-grams, and to contextually filter textswith user-sl3ecified strings.540The overall design of the system is schematicallyrepresented in diagram 1.l)il~rain I, S),steni Design\[ l" i t i" i i~' l i& ~" \]1/I 7No: II cat't n(2) Word Colloc~dion(3) CategoricalI)istribution(4) N-\[.,ram(5) l;illcriug wilhC :haiaclor with(6) Filleting withCalcgm its(7) End(1)1(a)1(3)1(4)1(5)1((,) \]\[l /ENDI ItV.
ColIocalion Without Sc!,,mculalionThere arc three collocatiomd tools awfilable in thissystem without segmenting the texts inlo words.
First,character collocation allows automatic acquisition ofsub-lcxical information, sttcll as the conditions on mor-pho-lexical rt, les.
This is attested by the studies on thenotion o1' word in the mental lexicon reported in \[luangct al.
(1993), and the generalizations of productivedcrivational rules in Mandarin offered in I long ct al.(1992).
Take note that when applying KWIC search Iothe corpus, a user has the liee(Iom to specify a key thatis a single character, a multi-character siring, or even adiscontinuous string of characters.
These charactcrstrings may or may not be words.
Thus the extracted col-locationaL relation is not simply between characters.
Itcan also be between characters and either a simplexword, a compound, or a phrase.
'\['he collocationalrelation in our systel)\] is nleastlrcd alld rcl)resented byboth Mutual lnforunation (Church and l lanks I990) andfrequency.
The user can choose to sort and rank thecollocates by cither criteria.
S/lie can also specify thres-hold wlhie by eithe!
criteria.
Usually, the n\]ost effectivemethod is to use licquency threshold and Mutual Inlbr-mation ranking (1 luang In Press).
In addition to the mea-sures of correlation, distribution of the collocates is alsoindicated in terms of positions relative to the key andliequency of occurrences at each position for eachcollocating character.Second, lexical information can also be derived.fi'omthis collocational system regardless of its lack of demar-cation of lexical items.
This is achieved through asilnplc Markov lnodel.
Once the KWIC search ex-tracted the relevant contexts, a simple N-gram routinecan be perlbrrrtcd on lhe context(s) specified by the user.Dcl~cmling on the purpose of the study and the size ofrelcwmt texts, the length of the targct sequence as wellas \[lie Ihreshold l)Ulllbcr Call be specified.
For instance,a linguist may want to look lor all two or three charactersequences that occtlr over 5 times after a key verb.
Thiswould likely lima out a list of possible arguments (i.e.syntactic words) for that verb.
l leuce lexical informa-tion StlCh as semantic restriction of the predicates on itspost-arguments can be indirectly extracted.
In oursystem, the user is allowed to iterate the N-gram searchby desigmttin~, different contexts and string length (N).The lbllowing is an example of collocation withoutsegmentation, t luang ctal.
(1994) argue that Mandarinlight verbs select the verbs they nomiualize.
This issupported by the N-gram collocation restllts in diagram2.
The collocation is extracted from a 20 millionclmracter corpus and the collocation window is 5characters to the right el 'the key word.
It shows that theverbjin4xing2 (ypically nominalizcs a process verb.Diagram 2.
N-granl Collocation (By Frequency)Bi--syllabic Collocation with the verb j in4xing2gon\[,lzuo4 'to work'diao4cha2 'to investigate' 354gong I cheng2 'engineering work' 233437tao31un4 'to discuss' 223l.,ou ltong I 'to communicate' 198xie2tiao2 'to coordinate' 185yan2j iu4 'to study' 185liao3jie3 'to understand' 166guclhua4 'to plan' 156xie2shangl 'to negotiate' 154Last, the user can specify a character string in thecontext as a filter.
The lnost usefill application is tospecify a string that forms a syntactic word.
This is atechnique commonly used to resolve categorical orsense ambiguities.
Combining both N-gram search andstring filtering, fi'equcncy-based word collocatipn isachieved without segmentation.V.
Collocation After SegmentationWhen lexical or phrasal relation is the focus of thestudy, the above collocation module may sometimes be541inadequate.
In tiffs case, we will necd to apply theautomatic segmentation/tagging program such that wecan acquire information involving word pairs as well asgrammatical categories.
The automatic segmentationproccdurc is an revised version of the program reportedin Chen and Liu (1992).
The on-line lexicon is theCKIP lexicon of more than 80 thousand cntries (Chen1994).We did not automatically segment and tag the wholecorpus for very good reasons.
First, without a correctlytagged corpus, no statistically-based tagger can performsatisfactorily yet.Second, tllcrc is no practical way to recover incor-rectly identified words.
That is, when the automatictaggcr takes a character fi'om a target word to form aninal~propriate word with a neighboring character; thattarget word is lost and cannot be identified in thiscontext.
Tiros, it will be linguistically more felicitous toallow KWIC to identify all matching strings and allowfiltering of incorrect matched words in later steps.Last, segmented texts restrict im available collocationinlbrmation exclusively at word levcl.
For instance, notonly morphelne-nmrplaenae collocation will not beavailablc, neither can correlations bctwccn a mnrphcnacand a word be extracted.In contrast, when optional scglnentation is performedon-line on the result of KWIC search, the collocationalsystcnr can be applied to any electronic text corporawithminimal pre-proccssing.
This current approach alsoallows us to mix sub-lcxical, lexical, and extra-lexicalconditions according to our research need.Even though the post-segmentatiou module sharedthree routines with tim module without segmentation,they do differ non-trivially in their applications.
First,the character collocation module is basically tim same.The additional step of segmentation excludes accidentalstring matches.
For instance, with qu4shi4 "to passaway' as the keyword, KWIC may extract he incorrectcontext 'tal qu4 shi4jie4 ge,l di4 lu3 xing2'.
This errorin identifying word boundaries can be easily avoidedwhen the text is correctly segnrented.
In this case, thecorrect segmentation is 'tal qu4 shi4jie4 ge4di4ht3xing2 (s/he go work\[ everywhere travel)'.
Second,N-gram in this module now can include both sequencesof characters and sequences of words.Two additional tools directly utilize grammatical tags.Tim first one is tim computing of tim distribution ofgrammatical categories in the context.
The second iscontextual filte,'ing in terms of grammatical categories.One caution needs to be mentioned here.
As mentionedearlicr, we do not have a highly reliable automatictagger yet because the,'e is no dependably tagged largeChinese corpus, l lence our automatic segmentationprogram looks up the categories of the words but do notattempt to resolve ambiguity.
Since categoricallyambiguous words make up only around 20% of the texts(Chen and Liu 1992, Chen et alIn Preparation), keepingall possible tags seem to be an acceptable compromisefor the moment.
But this also means that a user must beon the lookout for possible errors caused by multipletags.
Our system allows the use," to view the categoricaldistribution of tim whole context, as well as to focus ona smaller context and specific categories.
Diagram 3shows tim categorical collocation of the head of thepost-verbal argument of Imo4de2 'to get/receive.'
Weobtained this information by first perform thediscontinuous KWIC on huo4de2 and the relative clausehead marker de.
After segmentation a d collocatio!L werestrict im disphty to tim first position to tim right of de,and to the two major categories of N and V. The resultshows that this verb typically take subclasses ofcommon noun and (nominalized) transitive verbs asargulr~ents.Diagram 3.
Categorical Collocationl leads of Relative Clause Arguments ofhuo4de2rl ficquency rl fiequencyNab 63 Vc2 62Nac40 Vhl 1 28Nad27 Vkl  20Nca26 Vcl 19Ncb 13 Vc2 16Last, the word-based collocation system is tim part ofour system that will take the most processing capacity.This is also the only part of our system that is still beingtested at this moment.
Word frequencies of our corpushave already been calculated and stored.
Theautomatically segmented word-based collocationmodule should be available for linguistic research withinweeks.VI.
ConclusionIn this paper, we described a collocation system thatworks on text corpora without word marks.
Tiffs systemhas tim advantage of extracting sub-lexical information.This is also particularly useful in studying Chineselanguage co,pora since sociological words are distinctfi'om syntactic words in Chinese (Chao 1968).
Thus inlinguistic and literary computing, it is often necessary toformulate generalizations based on zi4, the sociologicalword.
The teclmiques reported in this paper should alsofind applications in two aspects of future computationallinguistic research.
Fi,st, it can be applied to otherlanguage text corpora for extraction of sub-lexicalcollocation.
Second, it can be applied to text corpora542which do not come with clear word demarcation:including corpora in languages in which sociologicalwords and syntactic words do not coincide and spokencorpora.AcknowledgementsResearch of this project was partially funded by tileChiang Ching-kuo Foundation for InternationalScholarly Exchanges, tile National Science Council ofR.O.C., and Academia Sinica.
We would like to thankl,i-ping Chang and other colleagues fit CKtP for theirhelp and comlrients.
P, esponsibility of filly remainingerrors is ours alone.BibliographyIliller, D. 1993.
Co-occurrence Patterns alnongCollocations: A Tool for Coqnis-Based LexicalKnowledge Acquisition.
Computational l,inguistics.19.3:531-538.Chao, Y. R. 1968.
A Gramniar of Spoken Chinese.Berkeley: University of Calilbrnia Press.Chert, K.-j.
1994. l,inguistic lnlbrmation and l,exi- calData Management in Dictioilary Research.
InvitedPaper preserited are the Internal Conference oilComputer Processing of Oriental Languages.
l)aeionKorea.
May 10-14.___, and S.-II.
Liu.
1992.
Word Identification forMandarin Chinese Sentences.
COIANG-92.
101-105.
Nantes, lrrance.__ ,  S.-h. l,hl, L.-p. Chang, aiid Y.-h. Chin, InPreparation.
A Practical Tagger for Chinese Corpo-ra.
Nankang: Academia Sinica.Chinese Knowledge Informiition I'roeesshig (2roilp.1993.
The CKIP Categorical Classification ofMandarin Chinese (hi Chinese).
CK1P Technical Re-port no.
93-05.
Taipei: Academia Sinica.__  1994.
A Frequency Dictionary o\[" Written Chi-nese.
CKIP Technical Report no.
94-01 Taipei:Academia Sinica.C\]lnl'eh, 1(,,., and P. I \[anks.
1990.
Word Associ-ation Norms, Mutual hdormation, and I,exicogra-phy.
Computational Linguistics.
16.1:22-29., and R. L. Mercer.
1993.
Introduction tothe Special Issue ell Computational l,inguisticsUsing l,arge Corpora.
Computalional Linguistics.19.1:t-24.lhnlg, W.M.,C.-R. lhlang, andK.-J.
Chen.
1991.The Morphological Rules of Chinese DerivedWords.
l','esented at the 1991 International Confer-ence on Teaching Chinese as a Second lmnguage.Taipci.lluang, C.-R.
In Press.
Corpus-based Studies ofMandarin Chinese: Foundational Issues and Pre-liminary Results.
In M. Y. Chen and O. J-l,.
TzengEds.
1993.
Linguistic Essays in l loner of Willian~ S.-Y.
Wang.
Taipei: Pyramid., Kalhleen Ahrens, and Keh-jiann Chen.
1993.
Al)ata-driven Approach to Psychological Reality of tileMental Lexicon: Two Studies in Chinese Corpus Lin-guistics.
Proceedings of the International ConferenceoH the Biological Basis of l,anguage.
53-68.
Chinyi:Center of Cognitive Science, National Chung ChengUniversity.. .
.
.
.
l,.-p.
Chang., and M.-I,.
Yeh.
A Co,'pus-based Study of Nominalization and Verbal Seman-tics: Two Light Verbs in Mandarin Chinese.
Paperpresented at tile Sixth North American Conference onChinese IAnguislics.
May 13-15, USC., and K.-j.
Chen.
1992.
A Chinese Corpus IbrLinguistic Research.
COLING-92.
1214-1217.
Nan-tes, France.Sinclair, J. M. 1991.
Corpus, Concordance, Colloca-tion.
Oxford: Oxlbrd University Press.Sproat, R., and C. Shih.
1990.
A Statistical Me-thod for Iqndirlg Word ll, onndaries in Chinese Text.Conlputer Processhlg o\[' Chinese and Orientall,an{;tlages.
4 4:336-351.Svartvik, J.
1992.
I,',d.
I)irections hi Corpus I,in-guistics.
Proceedings of Nobel Synlposhnn 82, 4-8August 1091.
Trends in l,inguistics Studies and Mo-nographs 65.
Berlin: Moulon.Wang, M.-C., C.-P,.
\[hlang, and K.-,i.
Chen.
1994.The hlentificatioi/ and Classification of Unk~lownWords ill Chinese: a N-grflm-llased Apt)roach.Mantlscript.
Acadelnia Sirlica.543
