EXPLORING TIlE ROLE OF PUNCq'UATION IN PARSING NATURAl, TEXTBernard E M JonesCentre for Cognitive Science, University of l;klinbnrgh, Edinburgh l'~H8 9ITvV, ScotlandEmail: bernieOcogsci.ed.ac.ukABSTR.ACTFew, if any, current NLP systems make anysignificant use of punctuation.
Intuitively, atreatment of lrunctuation seems necessary to theanalysis and production of text.
Whilst thishas been suggested in the fiekls of discoursestrnetnre, it is still nnclear whether punctu-ation can help in the syntactic field.
Thisinvestigation atteml)ts to answer this questionby parsing some corpus-based material withtwo similar grammars - one including rulesfor i)unctuation, the other igno,'ing it.
Thepunctuated grammar significantly outq)erformsthe unpunctnated on% and so the conclnsionis that punctuation can play a usefifl role insyntactic processing.INTRODUCTIONqT'here are no cnrrent text I)ased natural languageanalysis or generation systems that make flfll use ofpunctuation, and while there are some that makelimited use, like the \],klitor's Assistant \[l)ale 1990\],they tend to be the exception rather than therule.
Instead, punctuation is usually stripped outof the text belbre l)rocessing, and is not included ingenerated text.Intnitively, this seems very wrong.
Punctuationis such an integral part of written language that it.is difficult to imagine natnrally producing any signi-ficant body of unpunctuated text, or being al)le toeasily understand any such body of text.IIowever, this is what has been done in the compu-tational inguistics field.
The reason that it has alwaysbeen too difficult to incorporate any coherent accountof punctuation into any system is because no suchcoherent account exists.I)unctuation has long been considered to beintimately related to intonation: that is that difDrentpunctuation lnarks simply give the reader tiles :_ts tothe possible prosodic and l)ausal characteristics of thetext \[Markwardt, t942\].
This claim is questioned byNunberg \[1990\], since such a transcriptional view ofpunctuation is theoretically nninteresting, and alsocorrelates rather lradly with intonation in any case.However, even if we reeognise that punctuationfulfils a linguistic role of its own, it is by no meansclear how this role is defined.
Since there is still noconcise linguistic aeconnt of the flmction of pllltCtU-ation, we have to rely mainly on personal intuitions.This in turn introduces new probhmas, since there isa great deal of idiosyncrasy associated with the useof Imnctuation marks.
Whilst most people may agreeon (:ore situations in which use of a given punctuationmark is desirable, or ewm necessary, there are stilltnany situations where their nse is less clear.In his recent review, lhurlphreys \[1993\] suggestsLlmt acconnts O\['lnmctuation fall into three categories:'"I'he first .
.
.
is  selllessly dedicated to the task ofbringing Punctuation to the Peasantry ,..
The secondsort is the Style (I uide, written by editors and printersfor tile private pleasure of fellow professionals .
.
.Thethird, on tile linguisticsranch the rarest of all.
"Thus whilst we dolmblishers ' style guides,of the punctuation systenr, isnot really want to rely onsince the accounts of i)unctu-ation they contain are rather too proscriptive andconcentrate on tile nse of punctuation rather than itsine~.tnillg, tim academic accounts of l )nnetnat ion arefar from numerous.
In the work of Dale \[1991\], thepotential o1' punctuation in the tiehl of discourse andnatnral hmguage generation is explored.
However,little mention is made anywhere of tile role oflmnctuation within a syntactic framework.
'?hereforethe current investigation tries to determine whethertaldng consideration of lmnetuation can further thegoals of syntactic analysis of natural language.PUNCTUATIONPunctuation, as we consider it, can 1)o defined w~ thecentral part of the range oF non-le?ical orthography.All,hough arguments could Ire made for including themd)-Iexical marks (e.g.
hyl)hens, apostrol)hes ) andstructural marlcs (e.g.
bullets in itemisations), theyare excluded since they Lend to be lexicalised orrather difficult to represent, respectively.
Indeed, itis difficult t,o imagine the representation of struc-tural punctuation, other than through the use of somespecial structural description language such ~m SGM I,.Within our definition o\[' punctuation then, we lindbro~*dly three types of mark: delimiting, separatingand disambigu~tting, as described by Nunberg \[1990\].Some marks, the COlnlna especially, fall into multiplecategories since they can have different roles, and thecategories each per\[brm distinct lingnistic functions.l)elimiters (e.g.
comma, (hush, l)arenthesis) occurto either side of a l)articular lexical expression toremove that exl)ression from the immediate syntactic42"/context of the surrounding sentence (1).
Tiledelimited phr~e acts as a modifier to the adjacentphrase instead.
(1) John, my friend, fell over and died.Separating marks come between similar gramma-tical items and indicate that the items form a list (2).They are therefore similar to conjunctions in theirbehavionr, and can sometimes replace conjunctionsin a list.
(2) I came,  I saw,  I conquered.I want butter, eggs and titan'.Disambiguating marks, usually commas, occurwhere an unintentional ambiguity coukl result if themarks were not there (3), and so perhaps illustratebest why tile use of puncttmtion within NL systemscould be beneliciM.
(3) Earlier, work was halted.In addition to the nature of different punctuationmarks, there are several phenomena described byNunberg \[1990\] which it is useful to consider beforeimplementing any treatment of punctuation:Point absorption: strong point symbols (comma,dash, semicolon, etc.)
absorb weaker adjacentones (4).
Commas are least powerfnl, andperiods t most powerful;(4) It was John, my fi'iend.Bracket absorption: commas and dashes are removedif they occur directly before an end quote orparenthesis (5) ;(5) ... (my brother, ~.he teacher)...Quote tmt, sposition: punctuation directly to theright of an end quote is moved to the left of thatcharacter (6).
This phenomenon occurs chieflyin American English, but can occur generally;(6) IIe said, "I love you.
"Graphic absorption: orthogral)hically, but not lingui-stically, similar coincident symbols are absorbed(7).
Thus the dot marking an abbreviation willabsorb an adjacent period whereas it would notabsorb an adjacent comma.
(7) I wm'k fro" the C.1.A., not the F.B.I.In addition to the phenomena ssociated with theinteraction of punctuation, there are also distinctphenomena observable in the interaction of punctu-ation and lexical expressions.
Thus delimited phrasescannot immediately contain delimited phrases of theIThroughout this paper I shall refer to sentence-final dotsas periods rather than full-stops, to avoid confusion.same type (the sole exception may be with parenthe-tieals, though many people ob.iect to nested paren-theses) and a<buncts such as the colon-expansioncannot contain further similar adjuncts.
Therefore,in tile context of colon and semicolon seeping, (8) isambiguous, but (9) is not.
(8) words  : words ; words  .
(9) words : words ; words : words .THE G I~AMMA1LRecognition of punctuational phenomena does notimply tha.t they can be successfully encoded into aNL grammar, or whether the use of such a punctuatedgrammar will result in arty analytical advantages.Nunberg \[1990\] adw~cates two separate grammars,operatiug at different levels.
A lexical grammaris proposed \['or the lexical expressions occurringbetween l~unctuation marl;s, and a text grammar isproposed for the structure of the punctuation, and therelation of those marks to the lexical expre.ssions theyseparate.
The text gralllluar has within it distinctlevels, such as phrasal and clausal, at which distinctpunctuational phenomena can occur.This should, in theory, make for a veryneat system: l.he lexical syntact, ic processes beingkept separate from those that handle ImnCtUation.llowever, in pracl.ice, this system seems mdikely l,osucceed since in order to work, the lexical expressionsthat occur between punctuation marks must carryadditional information about the syntactic ategoriesoccurring at their edges so that the text grammar canconstrain the function of the punctuation marks.For example, if a sentence includes an itemisednoun phrase (10), the lexical expression before thecomma must be marked as ending with a nounphrase, and the lexleal expression after the commamust be marked as starting with a nottn phrase.A rule in the text grammar could then process thesel)arating comma as it clea,'ly Col nes between twosimilar syntactic elements.
(10) lie lilies Willy, lan and Tom.\[e.d: ,,p\] \[sta,'~,: ,,p\]Ilowever, as (11) shows, the separatingcomina concept could require intbrmation about thecategories at arbitrarily deep levels occurring a.t theends of \]exical expressious urronnding punctuationrllarks,(u) 1 like to walk, skip, and rmt.I like to walk, to sldp, and to rtm.1 like to walk, like to skip, but hate to run.Even with the above edge-category information,the parsing process is not necessarily made any easier(since often the fllll partial parses of a.II the separateexpressions have to be held and joined).
Therefore weseem to be at no advantage if wc use this approach.422In add(lieu, it is dill\]cult o imagine what linguistic orpsychological m0tivatidn such a separation of punctu-ation from lexical text could hold, since it seemsrather unlikely that people process punctuation at aseparate level to the text it surrounds.tIence it seems more sensible to use an integratedgrammar, which handles both words and punctu-ation.
This lets us describe the iuteraction of lulnetu -at(on and lexieal expressions far more logically andconcisely than if the two were separated.
Goodexamples of this are disaml)iguatillg comnlas I ill aunified grammar we can simply write rules with anoptional comma among the daughters (12).
'(t2) .~ -~ np (~o,nm,O ~i'.S 4 lip (eonllna) s.A featnre-based tag grammar was written forthis investigation (based loosely on one written byBriscoe and Waegner \[1992\]), and used in conjun-ction with tile parser inchlded in the Alvey Tools'Grammar Development Environment (ODE) \[Carrolle ta l ,  1991\], which allows for rapid prototyping aude,~sy analysis of parses.
I t  should be stressed thatthis grammar is solely one of tags, aild so is not verydetailed syntactically.In order to handle the additional complications ofpunctuation, tile notion of stoppedness of a categoryliars been introduced.
Thus every category in thegrammar has a stop feature which describes thepunctu~Ltional character following it (13), and defaultsto \[st -\] (unstopped) if there is no such character.
(ca) tll~ man, = \[st elwith the flowers, = \[st, f\]Since the rnles of the grammar further dictatethat the mother category inherits the stop value ofits rightmost daughter, ouly rules to specifically addpnnctuation for categories which could be lexicalisedare necessary.
Thus a rule for the additional of apunctuation marie after a lexicalised nouli would beas in lid).
('\['hc alligraphic letters rel)resellt unili-cation variables.
)(14) n0\[st S\] --4- n0\[st, -1 \[punt N\]We can then specify that top level categories mustbe \[st f\] (period), that items in a list should be \[st c\](comma), etc.
In rules where we want to force a parti-cular punctuation mark to the right of a category,that mark can be included in the rule, with thepreceding category unstopped: (15) illustrates theaddition of a comlna-delimited noun phrase to a ilounllilrase.
Specifically mentioning tile l)unctuation nlarkprevents the delimited phrase from being unstopped,resulting in an unstopped mother category.
Note(,hat Cite phenomenon of point absorption has beeucaptured by unifying the wdue of the st feature of tilemother and the identity of tile final punctuation marie.Thus the possible vahies of st are all the possiblevalues of punt in addition to \[st -\],(15) up\[st S\] -~ up\[st c\] np\[st -\] \[punt S\].
'J2hus the stop feature seems sufficient to cope withtile punctuational phenomena inl;roduccd M)ove.
|liorder to incorporate tile pllenomena of interactionbetweeu plmctuatiou and lexical expressions (e.g.preventing immediate nesting of similar delimitedphrases), we need to iiltroduce it small Ullnlber ofadditioual features into the graunnar.
If, for example,we make a comma-delimited noun phr,~se \[cm +\], wecan then stipulate that any noun phrase that inchidesa comma-delimited phrase has the feature \[cm \], sothat the two cannot unify (16).
Note that the unifi-cation of nmtlter and right-lnost daughter stop valuesis onlitted t7)r clarity of prescntal, ion.
( is) ,~I,\[<:,,: -\] -~ l,V\[.~t (:\] ,,pill,, +, st, \]~,'Ve can iUCOl'porato the relative scoping of coh)nsand semicolons, as discussed previously, into thegranunar w;ry easily too.
The semicolon rule (117)accepts any vahle of co in its arguments, but the eolourule (18) only accepts fee -\].
The mother categoryof the eolou rule bears the feature fee t-\] to preveutinchlsiOll into further cololl-bearing sentences.
Notethat there are more versions of I, he colon rule, whichdeal witll dill'etch( constituents to either side of thecolou, and also that, since the GI)E does not pel'nlitthe disjunction of ligature values, the semicolon rule ismerely an abbreviation of the innltiple rules requiredin the granlmar.
~top unilication is again omitted.
(17) s\[co (dl V B)\] -~ s\[co A, sl, so\] s\[co B\].
(18) s\[,:o +1 -~ s\[<:o - ,  ~t ~,,\] .+o %Ilenc0 the inclusion of a few simph~ extra featuresin it aorlnal granllnar h;_lS achieved an acceptableI.reatnlent of lnu~ctuatioual phenomer:a. ,qincc thiswork ouly represents the initial steps of providing afull aim pl'Ol)er accounb of tile role of puuc.tuatiou, noclaims are lllade for the theoretical validity or colriplc-teness of this approach!THE COI l .PUSFor the current hlw~stigat\[on it was necessary to usea corpus sulliciently rich in lmltctuation to illustratethe possible advantages or (lisadvantages of uLilisingpunctual.ion within the parsing process.
Obviouslya sentence whMl inchldes no lmnctuation will beequally difficult to parse with both punctuated andUlqmnctuated gralniuars.
Sinlihu'ly, for s(~iltCllCesincluding only ()lie or two marks of pllnctilation, l.hellSO of punctliatlon is likely to bc raLller procedural,and hence not necessarily very revealing.Therefore the tagged Spoken English Corpus waschosen \['lh.ylor ,~ Knowles, 1988\].
This featlu'es omevery long seutences, and includes rich and variedpunctuation.
Since IJle corpus has l)cen l)unctnatedIYlallually, by several different people, some idiosyn-crasy occurs ill tile pnnctuatlollal style, I)ul, there is423little punctuation which wonld be deemed inappro-priate to the positidn it'oceurs in.A subset of 50 sentences w~ chosen from thewhole corpus.
Between them these sentences includematerial taken from news broadcasts, poetry readings,weather forecasts and programme reviews, so a widevariety of language is covered.The lengths of the sentences varied from 3 words to63 words, the average being 31 words; and the punctu-ational complexity of the sentences varied from onemark (just a period) to 16 marks, the average being4 punctuation marks.
A sample tagged sentence isshown in (19), where fs denotes a period.
(19) Their_APP$ meeting_NN1 involves~VVZ a_ATIldnd_NNl of_|O life_NN1 swap_NN1 fs_l,'SThe punctuated grammar, developed with thissubset of the corpns, was used to parse the corpussubset, and then an unpunctuated version of thesame grammar was used to parse the same subset.The reason that testing was performed on thetraining corpus was that, in the absence of acomplete treatment of punctuation, the pnnetuationalphenomena in the training corpus were the only onesthe grammar could work with, and although theyincluded almost all of the core phenomena mentioned,slightly different instances of the same phenomenacould cause a parse failure.
For reference, a smallset of novel sentences were also parsed with thegrammars, to determine their coverage outside theclosed test.The unpunetuated version of the grammar wasprepared by removing all the features relatingto specifically punetuational phenomena, and alsoremoving explicit mention of punctuation marks fromthe rules.
This, of course, left behind certain rulesthat were fimetionally identical, and so duplicate ruleswere removed from the grammar.
Similarly for rnleswhich performed the same function at different levelsin tire grammar (e.g.
attachment of prepositions totile end of a sentence with a comma was also cateredfor by rules allowing prepositions to be attached tonoun and verb phrases without a comma).I~ESULTSResults of parsing with the punctuated grammar werevery good, yielding, on average, a surprisingly smallnumber of parses.
The number of parses rangedfi'om 1 to 520, with an average of 38.
This averageis unrepresentatively high, however, since only 4sentences had over 50 parses.
These were, in general,those with high numbers of punctuation marks, allcontaining at least 5, as in (20).
Ignoring the foursmallest and four largest results then, the averagenumber of parses is reduced to just 15.
Example (21)is more representative of parsing.
On examination,a great number of the ambiguities eem to be dueto inaccuracies or over-generality in the lexieal tagsassigned to words in the corpus.
The word more, forexample, is triple ambiguous as determiner, adjectiveand noun, irrespective of where it occurs in a sentence.
(20) (The sunlit weeks between were fifll of maids:Sarah, with orange wig and horsy teeth, was sobad-tempered that she scarcely spoke; Maudwas my hateful nurse who smelled of SOal) , an(Iforced me to eat chewy bits of fish, thrusl;ingme I)ack t.o babyhood with threats of nappies,dummies, and the feeding bottle.
)520 l)unct, uated parses(21) (More news about, the reverend Sun MyungMoon, lbunder of the Unification Church, who'scurrently in jail fox" tax evasion: he was awardedan lmnorary degree lasL week hy the RomanCatholic University of la Plata in l/uenos Aires,Argentina.)
t8 punctuated parsesBesides the ambiguity of corpus tags, a l)roblemarose with words that had been completely mistagged.If these caused the parse to fail completely, thetag was changed in the development phase of tilegrammar, but even so, the number of completemistags was rather small in the sub-corlms used:around 10 words in the 50 sentences used.Initial attempts at parsing the corpus subset usingthe nnpunctuated version of the grammar were unsuc-cessfl, l on even the most powerfifl machine awtilable.This was due to the failure of the machine to representall the l)arses sinmltaneously when unpacking theparse forest produced by the chart parser.
A speciMsection of code written for the (~I)E (grateful thanksare due to John Carroll for supplying this piece ofcode) to estimate the munber of individual parsesrepresented by the packed parse-forest howed that forall but the most basically punctuated sentences, thenumber of parses was ridiculously huge.
The figure forthe sentence in (211.)
w,ts in excess of 6.3x 10 le parses!F, ven though this estimate is an upper bound, sinceeffects of feature value percolation during nnpaeldngare ignored, it has been fairly accura.te with mostgrammars in the past and still indicates that rathertoo many parses are being produced!
Not all sentencesproduced such a massive number of parses: thesentence in (22) yielded only 1.q2 parses with theunpln letuated granlmar which was by far the smallestnnmbcr or nnpttnctuated parses.
Most sentences thatmanaged to pass tile estimation process producedbetween 10 (; and 110 9 parses.
(22) (Ih'otestants, however, are a tiny minority inArgentina, and tile delegation won't beincluding a. I~.oman Catholic.
)9 punctuated parsesOn examination of tile grammar and tile corpus,it is possible to understand why this has happened.
'I'he punctuated grammar had to allow for sentencesincluding comma-delimited noun phrases adjacent oundelimited noun phrases, as illustrated by the rules(15) and (16).
These are relatively easy to mark andrecognise when the punctuation is available, Itowever,424without punctuational clues, and with the under-specific tagging system, any compound noun couldappear as a set of delimited noun phrases with theunpunetuated grammar.Therefore the unpunetuated grammar was filrthertrimmed, to such an extent that parses no longeraccurately retlected the linguistic structure of thesentences, since, for example, comma delimitednoun l)hr~es and compomtd nomls became indistin-guishable.
Some manual preparation of the sentenceswas also carried out to prevent the reoccurrance ofsimple, but costly, misl)arses.
"\['he results of the parse now became nmch moretractable.
For bmsie sentences, as predict,ed, therewas little difference in the performance of punctuatedand unpunetuated gramlnars.
Results were withinan order of magnitude, showing that no signiticautadwmtage w,'Ls gained through the use of lmnctuation.
'l'he sentences in (23) and (24) received t and 11parses respectively with the unpunetuated grammar.
(23) ('vVell, just recently, a (lay conference onmiracles was convened by the researchscientists, Christian Fellowship.
)4 punctuated parses(24) (The assembly will also be discussing the Lit(immigration laws, lIong Kong, teenagers in thechurch, and of course, chur(:h mdl.y schemes.
)2 punctuated parses(25) (They want to know whether, for instance, in ascientific age, Christians can really believe inthe story of the feeding of the five thousmM asdescribed, or was the miracle that those in thecrowd with food shm'ed it with those who hadnone?)
24 punctuated parsesl"or the most complex sentences, however, thenumber of parses with tl,e unlmnctuated grammarwas t,ypically more than two orders of magnitudehigher than with the punctuated grammar.
Thesentence in (25) had 12,096 unpunctuat,ed parses.Parsing a set of ten previously unseen l)UnCtU-ationally complex sentences with the l)uncttmtedgrammar resulted in seven of the ten beingunparsable.
The other three parsed successfully,with the number of parses failing within the rangeof the results of the first part, of the investigation.The parse failures, on examination, were due tonovel punctuational construct,ions occurring in thesentences which the grammar had not been designedto handle.
Parsing the unseen sente,~ces with the.unpunetuated grammar esulted in one parse failure,with the results for the other 9 sentences rel'lectiugthe previous results for complex sentences.D ISCUSSIONThis investigation seems to supl)ort the originalpremise --- that inclusion and use of punctuationalphenomena within natural language syntax can assist,the general aims of natural language processing.We have seen that for the simplest sentences, useof punctuation gives us little or no advantage overthe more simple grammar, but, conversely, does noharm and can reflect the actual linguistic constructiona lit,t,h', more accurately.For the longer sentences of real language, however,a grammar which makes use of punctuation massivelyoutperforms an otherwise similar grammar thatignores it.
Indeed, it, is diiIieult to see how anygrammar that takes no notice of punctuation eouklever become successful ~d.
analysing such sentencesmfless some huge amount of semantic and pragmaticknowledge is used to disambiguate the analysis.I\[owever, as was shown by the attempt at parsingthe novel sentences, knowledge of the role of punet,u-alien is still severely limited.
The grammar onlyperformed reliably on those l)unctuational phelmmenait, had been designed with.
Unexpected constructscaused it to fail totally.
Therefore, following l, herecognition that l)unctuation can play a crucial role innatural anguage syntax, what is needed is a thoroughinvestigation into the theory of lmnCtuation.
Thentheoretically based analyses of lmnctuation can playa full and important part in the analysis of language.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThis work was carried out under Esprit Acquilex-II,lIRA 7315, and an ESRC l/,eseareh Stndentship,1/.004293:1,1171.
'\['hanks tbr instrt{etive and helpfulcomments to Ted Briseoe, John Carroll, Rol)ert Dale,Ilenry 'Fhompson and anonymous CoLing reviewers.R+EFEI~ENCESIh'iseoe, E J and N Waegner (1992).
"RobustStochastic Parsing Using the Inside-OutsideAlgorithm."
In Proceedings, AAAI WorL'shop onStatistically-based NLP Techniques, San Jose, CA.Carroll, J; E J Briscoe; and C (.\]rover (1991).
"A l)evelol)ment, Enviro,mmnt for l,arge Natural\],anguage Grammars."
TechuieaI I{.eport 233,Carol)ridge University Computer Lal)oratory.Dale, I{ (1991).
"l",xploring the Role of l)ulwtu-ation in the Signalling of Discourse Struetm'e.
"In Ibveeedings, Workshop of Text Representationand Domain Modelling, T. U. Berlin, ppll0-120.\])ale, 1~ (1990).
"A Rule-based approach toCouaputer-Assisted Copy Editing."
ComputerAssisted Language Learning, 2, 1)1)59-67.lhmaphreys, l:L L (1993).
"Book Review: The Lingui-stics of Punctuation."
Mochlne Translation, 7.Markwardt, A l I  (1942).
httrodvction to the EnglishLam.luage, Oxford University Press, New York.Nunberg, O (1990).
The Linguistics of Punctuation,CSLI Leetnre Notes 18, Star, ford, CA.Taylor, L J and G Knowles (1988), Mamtal of Infor-mation to Accompany the SEC Corpus, Universityof Lancaster.425
