A System of Verbal Semantic Attributes Focused onthe Syntactic Correspondence between Japanese and EnglishHiromi NAKAIWA, Akio YOKOO and Satoru IKEHARANTI" Communication Science Laboratories1-2356 Take, Yokosuka-shi, Kanagawa-ken, 238-03 JapanE-mail: nakaiwa {yokoo, ikehara} @nttkb.ntt.jpAbstractThis paper proposes a system of 97 verbalsemantic attributes for Japanese verbs whichconsiders both dynamic haracteristics and therelationship of verbs to cases.
These attributevalues are used to disambiguate he meanings ofall Japanese and English pattern pairs in aJapanese to English transfer pattern dictionaryconsisting of 15,000 pairs of Japanese valencepatterns and equivalent English syntacticstructures.1.
IntroductionVarious machine translation systems haveapproached the stage of being put to practicaluse.
However, the quality of the finishedtranslation is not satisfactory in any of thesesystems.
This is due to difficulties in limitinglinguistic phenomena that are handled bymachine translation systems.
In particular, theanalysis of linguistic expressions such as ellipsisand anaphoric references, which requirecontextual nalysis, is imperfect.
To introduceconstraints brought about by context requires anenormous volume of knowledge of wordmeanings that can be used to determine thesemantic relationships between one sentence andanother.To avoid an explosion in the volume ofknowledge, a technique is proposed forclassifying word meanings and determining therelationships between words or betweensentences using the typical attribute values ofeach word.
Particularly in the case of contextprocessing, the verbal semantic attributes thatbecome the key factors in analyzing the flow ofsentences constitute important knowledge.Various efforts have been made inresearching verb classification.
Muraki (1985)suggested a method for grouping Japanese verbsusing their word meanings and their syntacticfeatures.
Tomiura et al (1986) proposed amethod for representing the meaning of verbsdivided into fundamental meanings andreasoning rules.
Ogino et al (1989; EDR 1990)proposed a method for verb classification basedon relations between verbs and co-occurringelements.
Various efforts have been made toclassify English verbs.
For example, Levin(1993) proposed a method for the classificationof 3000 English verbs that uses the relationshipbetween syntactic behavior and shared meaning.The research about verb classification stilltends to be limited solely to classification of thesemantics of verbs per se.
It does not take intoaccount the relationship between word meaningsand their usage within sentences and is notaimed at natural language processing.
Thus, thefull benefits that could be achieved in theanalysis of tracking semantic relationshipsbetween sentences and eliminating the polyscmyof verbs have not been realized.This paper tbcusses on the relationshipbetween word meanings of verbs and theirusage, and seeks to classify the semanticattributes of verbs.
These semantic attributes areused in defining the method of use of each verbin Japanese to English transfer patterndictionaries.
They furnish the key to tracing thesemantic relationships of verbs that are used in atext.2.
Semantic Structure of VerbalPatternsThis chapter examines the relationship betweenthe usage of verbs I and the semantic structure ofverbs.
In machine translation systems, it is wellknown that the translation pattern pairs of sourceIALT-J/E's pattern dictionaries include both verbs andadjectives.
Japanese adjectives are the equivalent ofEnglish 'be Adjective': for example "A-ga utsukushii" =>"A is beautiful".
'verbs' will be used to refer to both verbsand adjectives from now on.672hmguage and target language sentence areeffective in detmrnining the meaning of verbs.Our machine translation system, AI,T-J/E,uses two types of Japanese to English transferpattern dictionaries based on verbs: the semanticvalence pattern transfer dictionary and theidiomatic expression transfer dictionary (Fig.
1).These dictionaries consist of pairs made of\[The semantic valence Imttern transfer dictimmryl(1) NI(SUBJECI'S)-ga N2(F(X)D)-wo taherueat=> N1 eatt N2(2) Nl(*)-ga yomigaerurevive:> NI revive\[The idiomatic expression transfer dictionary l(1) NI(sUBJECTS)-ha se-ga takaiback high=> NI is tall.Fig.
1 Japanese to English Transfer PatternDictionaries(The semantic constraints are shown in parenthesis,* indicates flmre is no senmntic constraint.
)Japanese unit sentence patterns derived fromJapanese verbs 2 with semantic constraints totheir case elements and English patterns whichcorrespond to thc Japanese expressions, t"orexample, pattern(l) in Fig.
1 shows how, if theJapanese verb is "taberu" and the noun phrasewith a "ga" particle, which shows a subject, hasthe semantic attribute SUBJECTS and the nounphrase with a "we" particle, which shows adirect object, has the setnantic attribute FOOl)then the verb should be translated as "eat".
Thenoun phrase with the "ga" particle is translatedas the English subject.
The noun phrase with the"we" particle is translated as the English directobject.
Here, wc exantine the rehttionshipbetween the usage of verbs and the semanticstructure of verbs using verbal patterns that havebeen entered into the Japanese to Englishtransfer pattern dictionaries of ALT-J/ILFig.
2 shows an example of entries inthe Japanese to English transfer patterndictionary which indicate the patterns of the2In the idiomatic expression transfer dictionzu'ies, these arcthe core secg)r of idiomatic exp,essions such as "Abura weuru" literally, "to sell oil", but kliomatically, "to idle awaytime".Japanese verb "tsutsumu".
This verb has threepatterns.\[Japanese Verb : tsutsumu "wrap"l(l) NI(SUBJECTS)-gaN2(CONCRETE OBJECTS or PEOPLE)-woN3(CLOTHES or PAPERS)-deIsuIsumu=> N1 wrap N2 in/withN3Verbal Semantic Attribute: NI's bodily action(2) NI(FIRE, ATMOSI'tlERI~ or AlR)-gaN2(CONCRETE OBJECTS, CULTtJRE or PLACES)-woIsulsumu=> Ni envelop N2Verbal Semantic Attribute: N1 clmnges N2's attributes(3)NI(FOG)-gaN2(CONCRETE OBJECTS or PI,ACES)-woISI~tsIImu=> NI veil N2Verbal Semanlic Attribute: Natural PlmnomenaFig.
2 Example of a Japanese Verb withmultiple patternsThe first example shows a pattern pairindicating that the equiwtlent of the Japaneseexpression "N 1 (SUBJECTS) ga N2 (CONCRETEOBJECTS or PEOPI,E) we N3(CLOTHtiS or I'APERS)de tsutsumu" is the English expression "N1 wrapN2 in/with N3".
When the Japanese verb"tsutsumu" was used with these cases, thissentence gives the impression that NI reallydoes the wrapping action.
So, in this case, thispattern has the w:rb meaning "N1 conductsbcxlily action.
".The second example shows a pattern pairindicating that the equivalent expression of theJapanese xpression "NI (FIRE, ATMOSPIIERE orAIR) ga N2(CONCRETE OBJECTS, CULTtlRE orPLACES) we laulsumu" is the English expression"NI envelop N2".
This sentence gives theimpression that the state of N2 which isn'tusually enveloped by N1 changes to theenveloped state.
So, even though the sameJapanese verb "ISUL~'UmU" was used with thesecases, in this case, the pattern has a verbmeaning of "NI changes N2's attributes.
".The third example shows a pattern pairindicating that the equiwdent of the Japaneseexpression "N 1 (FOG) g(l N 2(C()NCRETF~ OBJECI'Sor PLACES)we tsutxumu" is the Englishexpression "N1 veil N2".
In this case, thissentence gives the impression that a natural6Z3phenomenon, 'fog', has occurred.
So, thispattern has the meaning "Natural Phenomenahave arisen".As shown in these examples, maintainingexpressions in pairs which indicate both thecommon meaning and their usage between theJapanese and English, enables us to eliminatemany conceptual ambiguities and makes itpossible to give detailed and accurate attributevalues to the Japanese verb "tsutsumu".As in the case of the Japanese verb"tsutsumu", one verb normally has several kindsof conceptual structures.
But one verbal patternwhich indicates common word meanings andtheir use between the Japanese and English(which differ so vastly in syntactic structure)corresponds toone conceptual structure.
So, it ispossible to eliminate the conceptual ambiguityof verbs by selecting verbal patterns in syntacticsemantic analysis.
In Japanese to Englishmachine translation, we estimate there are tensof thousands of verbal patterns which need to bedefined.
If the usage of these patterns can beexpressed by a small number of verbal semanticattributes, it is possible to track the semanticrelationships of verbs easily.
When givingverbal semantic attributes to a pair of individualJapanese and English patterns, it is possible torefer to the meaning of verbs not only inJapanese but also in English.3.
System of Verbal  Semant icAttr ibutes3.1 Classification Standards forVerbal Semantic AttributesRegarding the classification of verbs for use inmachine translation, Nishida et al (1980)proposed a system of verbal classification.
Thissystem of classification was introduced toresolve syntactic and semantic ambiguities ofEnglish in English to Japanese machinetranslation.
To this system, they added thesemantic attributes of verbs to the patterns ofEnglish verbs proposed by Hornby (1975) anddetermined the case structures depending on thecombination of these two kinds of information.This system of verbal semantic attributes wasintroduced on the condition that the features ofsyntactic structures are expressed by Hornby'spatterns of English verbs.
So, this system ofclassification focused only on word meaning.Therefore this system can not be applied as suchto the classification of Japanese verbs becauseHornby's patterns can't be applied directly toJapanese verbs.
No one has yet to proposeexhaustive patterns like Hornby's for Japaneseverbs.We expanded our system based on thediscussions in section 2, using the following twofactors.?
Dynamic Characteristics of verbsClassification based on a verb's meaningand its effects on the discourse:This classification is based on the types ofaction that can be understc?
)d to have occurredwhen a verb is expressed and what situationshave been brought about.Ex.
"motsu"(to have) -- Possession"kaihatsusuru"(to develop) -- ProductionThe verb "motsu" indicates that there is anact of possession within the context.
In contrast,the verb "kaihatsusuru" indicates that there issomething being produced within the context.?
Relationslfip of Verbs to CasesClassification based on the role which thecases play with the verbs that govern them:This classification is based on the roles playedby the case elements governed by the verbexpressed.Ex.
"kanseisuru":SUBJ becompleted->SUBJ be produced"kaihatsusuru":SUBJ develop OBJ->SUBJ produce OBJ"kanseisuru" and "kaihatsusuru" "are bothverbs which indicate acts of production.
Butwhereas "kanseisuru" indicates that the SUBJ isbeing produced, "kaihatsusuru" indicates that heSUBJ produces the OBJ.3.2 Semantic Attribute System consideringthe Semantic Relationship between VerbsWe created a system of verbal semanticattributes as explained above.
The semanticattribute values were determined using theusage patterns of typical Japanese verbs.
Firstwe classified verbs focussing on their dynamiccharacteristics.
Next, we classified each groupagain focussing on the relationships of verbs to674their cases.
The top levels of the created systemof verbal semantic attributes are shown in Fig.
3.The left side of this figure lists classifications asbased on the dynamic characteristics of the verbs(their meanings).
The right side lists theclassifications based on the relationship of verbswith their cases (their usage).
On the basis ofthese classification criteria, 97 verbal semanticattributes have been established.EVENTDynamic Characteristics of VerbsSTATEACT I ( )N~Abstract- -  Re la t ion - -__  MenralState- -  Natnre__ Phys ic~dActionExistenceAttribute- -  Possession- -  RelativeRelation__  Relatiou of Causeand F, ffcct___~ Perceptual StateEmotive StateThinking Stale- -  Physical Transfer- -  Possessive 'l'rans\[~:- -  Attribute Transl~r -__  Bodily TransferResultBodily Action- -  Use- -  Connective Action-- Prod uction__  I,;xtinction-DestructionMental F Mental TransferAction " -1  Become \[....._ Perceptual1 Action Cause1 - - - -  Emotive Action EnableS tar t -End- - -~  Sutrt / L .
__  Thinking ActionEnd4.
Result of Applicationfor the SemanticDescriptions of Verbal PatternsWe evaluated the coverage of the verbalsemantic attributes shown in chapter 3 byexamining the verbal semantic attributes foreach Japanese to English pair (about 15,000pairs) in the Japanese to English transfer patterndictionaries 3.Fig.4 shows how many transfer patternswere created for each verb in the semanticRelationship betweenVerbs and Cases- -  SUBJ existSUBJ not existRelation betweenSUBJ and DIR-OBJRelation betweenSUFIJ and IND-OBJSUBJ cause INI) -OBJSUBJ cause I ) IR-OBJtc,;iiiiiiiiiiii.~  SUBJ be acceptedS.U!~.J..p. rovidcs IND-OI~JZ ::::::::::::f: U:EC SUBJ belmxlucedSUBJ pr(xluce OBJC ::::::::::::Fig.
3 System of Verbal Semantic Attributesvalence pattern transferdictionary and theidiomatic expressiontransfer dictionary.
Thisfigure shows the resultsthat were counted foreach different verb.
"Filepercentage of patternsthat came from verbswith more than onepattern was 73.4%.
Inthese verbs that havemultiple patterns, thepercentage that haddifferent kinds of verbalsemantic attributes addedto the patterns were70.1%.
This resultshows that it is possibleto c lass i fy semanticattributes for each verbby add ing  verbalsemantic attributes toJapanese and Englishtransfer pairings.Next we countedthe number of verbalsemantic attribute valuesgivett for each pattern.Fig.
5 shows how manyverbal semantic attributes3Attribute values from ageneral noun attribute systemclassified into some 2,800types have been i)rovidcd asselnantic constraints to thecase elements of these patterns(lkchara ct al.
1991) enablingaccurate selections ofsyntactic structures.675la0454035302015105| ~ i t ?
i i ?
0O3Number of PatternsFig.
4 Ratio of  the number of  patterns toeach verbwere used by how many patterns.
About 90% ofpatterns can be described by just one attributevalue.
This result shows that by giving theverbal semantic attributes proposed in this paperto each pattern in ALT-J /E, even in instanceswhere multiple meanings may exist for a givenJapanese verb, meanings can be selectivelyl imited when verbs are viewed in terms ofpattern pairings.
The verbal semantic attributeswhich were given in each pattern have thepotential to become an important key to trackingsemantic relationships between sentences as isshown in chapter 5.Fig.6 shows the most frequent ten verbalsemantic attributes for all the patterns.
In theseverbal semantic attributes, the patterns thatATTRIBUTE was added can almost all bedescribed by only one attribute value (26.4% outof 27%).
By contrast, the many patterns100908O7060 #so40m3020101 2 3 4 5Number of Added Verbal Semantic AttributesFig.
5 Ratio of  the number of added verbalsemantic attributes to each patternNo.
1 :ATTRIBUTE, Coverage: 27.0%Number of added VSA: 1:26.4%, 2or more:0.6%Ex.
NI(SUBJECTS)oga chikarazuyoi=> N1 be reliableNo.2 :BODILY ACTION, Coverage: 12.7%Number of added VSA: 1:9.9%, 2 or more:2.8%Ex.
NI(HUMAN)-ga odoru=> N1 danceNo.3 :ATTRIBUTE TRANSFER(Subj's attribute),Coverage: 9.4%Number of added VSA: 1:8.1%, 2 or more: 1.3 %Ex.
NI(CONCRETE OBJECTS)-gaN14(FIRE, HEAT or LIGHT)-de tokeru=> N1 be melted by N14No.4 :THINKING ACTION, Coverage: 8.9%Number of added VSA: 1:7.5%, 2 or more: 1.4%Ex.
NI(HUMAN)-ga N2(CULTURE)-wofukushuusuru=> N1 review N2No.5 :ATTRIBUTE TRANSFER(Subj changes Dir-Obj's attribute) ,Coverage: 7.9%Number of added VSA: 1:5.8%, 2 or more:2.1%Ex.
NI(SUBJECTS)-gaN2(PRODUCTS or CULTURE) womoyasu=> N1 burn N2No.6 :EMOTIVE ACTION(Subj acts), Coverage: 7.7%Number of added VSA: 1:6.6%, 2 or more: 1.1%Ex.
NI(SUBJECTS)-ga N2(DEATH)-wokanashimu=> N1 mourn N2No.7 :MENTAL TRANSFER(Subj transfers Dir-Obj to Ind-Obj), Coverage: 4.9%Number of added VSA: 1:4.5%, 2 or more:0.4%Ex.
NI(SUBJECTS)-gaN2(LITERATURE)-woN3(PUBLICATION or BOOK)-nikankousuru=> N1 publish N2 in N3No.8 :EMOTIVE STATE, Coverage: 2.1%Number of added VSA: 1:1.8%, 2 or more:0.3%Ex.
NI(SUBJECfS)-ha N2(ABSTRACT)-gakuyashii=> NI regret N2No.9 :RELATIVE RELATION(between Subj and Ind-Obj), Coverage: 1.8%Number of addcA VSA: 1:1.3%, 2 or more:0.5%Ex.
NI(HUMAN)-ga N2(CULTURE)-woN3(ttUMAN)-ni shijisuru=> NI study N2 under N3No.
10:POSSESSIVE TRANSFER(Subj provides Ind-Obj), Coverage: 1.6%Number of added VSA: 1:1.4%, 2 or more:0.2%Ex.
NI(SUBJECI'S)-ga N3(SUBJECFS)-nizouwaisuru=> NI bribe N3Fig.
6 Coverage of the top 10 verbalsemantic attributes676described by BODILY ACTION or ATTRIBUTETRANSFER was added can't be described by oneattribute value (2.8% out of 12.7% and 2.1% outof 7.9 %, respectively).
These 2 kinds ofattribute values indicate the SUBJECT'S PhysicalAction, and it tends to be difficult to resolve thesemantic ambiguities for these patterns.As shown in Fig.6, a few verbal semanticattributes cover a large proportion of patterns.For example, the sum of the coverage of themost frequent attribute value, A'KFRIBUTE, andthe second most fi'equent attribute value, BODILYACTION, cover 39.7 % of all patterns.
For theseattributes, even if there are several patterns for agiven verb, sometimes the same attribute valuewas given to all the patterns.
So the system ofverbal semantic attributes is not sufficient toresolve the semantic ambiguities.
For suchattributes, we need more detail.
We are plalmingto subdivide these attribute values in the future.5.
Applications fo r  Context  P rocess ingin this chapter, we show examples ofapplications in context processing.5.1 Analysis of Anaphor ic  Reference ofJapanese Zero PronounsUsing verbal semantic attributes to analyzeanaphoric referents of zero pronouns appearingin Japanese texts is one applicati(m that has beenconsidered (Nakaiwa et al 1992).
Thistechnique pays attention to verbal semanticattributes and the relationship between thesemantic attributes of tim verbs which governzero pronouns and the semantic attributes of ttleverbs which govern case element candidateswhich may be anaphoricatly referred to.
Thecontexts are carefully examined to determineanaphoric reference lements.This method has been realized in themachine translation systmn AIA'-J/E.
Theenhanced ALT J /E  was assessed by processingcommon Japanese newspaper articles.
It wasfound that 95% of the Japanesc zero pronounsrequiring anaphoral resolution in the 102sentences from 30 newspapcr articles' leadparagraphs tlad their referents determinedcorrectly using rules tuned for the 102sentences(window test).
In tile case of a blindtest, the rate of success in anaphora resolution inwhich the zero pronoun referent exists within thesentence in another 98 sentences fromnewspaper articles was about 83% using tilerules.
To demonstrate he effectiveness of thismethod, we evaluated the performance of themethod proposed by Walker et.al.
(1990) usingthe 98 sentences.
Its rate of success in anaphoraresolution where the zero pronoun referentsexisted within the sentence was about 74%.
Thisresult shows that our method is more effectivethan Walker's method, and that the rules used inour method determine universal relationshipsbetween verbs.
If a few rules appropriate ff)r tile98 sentences are added, tile rate increases to95%.
This result shows that the load imposed byrule customization is low.Even in the case of sentences in machinetranslation systems for which target meas cannotbe constrained, this method allows theconstruction of rules independent of thetranslation target areas by means of verbalsemantic attribute pairings.
Using the verbalsemantic attributes, anaphoric referenceresolution of zero pronouns can be conductedwith a limited volume of knowledge.5.2 Supplementation of Elements OutsideSentences against Elliptical Case ElementsVerbal semantic attributes can be used withelliptical case elelnents in Japanese texts tosupplement case elements whose referents donot appear within tim texts.
To analyze suchelliptical phenomena, it is possible to use caseelements' semantic constraint conditions toestimate supplementary elements.
Semanticinformation used to estimate supplementingelelnents is a constraint on cases for selecting thetransfer f)attcrn.
With this xnethod, therelbre, themajority of the constraints involve abstractsemantic information, fi 'equently posingdifficulties in pinpointing elements to besupplemented.
For example, if in Fig.
1(2),"Ni(*)--ga yomigaeru(revive)", N l were to beomitted, ttle case element N I has no seman|icconstraint, and supplementary elements to thecase can't be determined.
In this case, it iseffect ive Io complete the case elementcorresponding to S|JBJECT using tilt" verbalsemantic attributes of the pattern, "N i's b(?tilystate is transfcrled".
Thus if a methodpresuming supplementary elements of elliptical677case elements corresponding to the verbalsemantic attributes is used, the deduction ofmore accurate supplementary elements would bepossible.5.3 Application for Other Context ProcessingsThe verbal semantic attributes can be applied toother context processing problems.
Estimatingthe relationship between verbs by pairing of theverbal semantic attributes, analysis of the tensesrelationship of events as indicated by certainsentences and events indicated by another,together with sentence abridgment can beconsidered.6.
ConclusionThis paper has proposed a system of 97 verbalsemantic attributes for Japanese verbs whichconsiders dynamic characteristics and therelationship of verbs to cases.
These attributevalues were used to disambiguate he meaningsof all Japanese and English pattern pairs in aJapanese to English transfer pattern dictionaryconsisting of 15,000 pairs of Japanese valencepatterns and equivalent English syntacticstructures.
As a result of examining the verbalsemantic attributes for each pattern of Japaneseto English paring, 90% of patterns can bedescribed by only one attribute values.
Thisresult shows that the meanings of Japanese verbsdetermined by the verbal semantic attributes canbe effectively limited when verbs are viewed interms of pattern parings.
Further attentions todetails and tightening of standards together withextensive application of this system are nowbeing worked on.Re ferencesEDR (1990) Concept Dictionary, TR-027.Hornby, A. S. (1975) Guide to patterns andusage in English, 2nd edition, London,Oxford University Press.Ikehara, S., M. Miyazaki and A. Yokoo (1991)Semantic Analysis Dictionary for MachineTranslation.
Information Processing Societyof Japan, Natural Language Processing,Vol.84-13 (in Japanese).Levin, B.
(1993) English Verb Classes andAlternations, The University of ChicagoPress.Muraki, S. (1985) Jyutsugo-so niyoru dousi nobunrui (Classification of Verbs byPredicates).
Information Processing Societyof Japan, Natural Language Processing,Vol.48-5 (in Japanese).Nakaiwa, H and S. Ikehara (1992) Zero PronounResolution in a Japanese to English MachineTranslation System by using Verbal SemanticAttributes.
Proc.
of ANLP '92, pp.
201-208.Nishida, F. and S. Takamatsu (1980) English-Japanese Translation through Case-StructureConversion.
Proc.
of COLING '80, pp.
447-454.Ogino, T. et al (1989) Verb Classification Basedon Semantic Relation of Co-occurringElements.
Information Processing Society ofJapan, Natural Language Processing, Vol.7l-2 (in Japanese).Tomiura, Y. and S. Yoshida.
(1986) A Researchof the Polysemy and Description of Verbs.Information Processing Society of Japan,Natural Language Processing, Vol.55-2 (inJapanese).Walker, M., M. lida and S. Cote (1990)Centering in Japanese Discourse.
Proc.
of"COLING'90.678
