MULTEXT : Multi l ingual Text Tools and CorporaNancy  Ide  and  Jean  V6ron isLABORATOIRE PAROLE ET LANGAGECNRS & Universitd e Provence29, Avenue Robert Schuman13621 Aix-en-Provence Cedex 1 (France)e-mail: ide@fraixll .univ-aix.
fr, veronis@fraixll  .univ-aix.
frAbstract, MULTEXT (Multilingual Text "Fools andCorpora) is the largest project funded in the Commissionof European Communities Linguistic Research andEngineering Program.
The project will contribute to thedevelopment of generally usable software tools tomanipulate and analyse text corpora and to create multi-lingual text corpora with structural and linguisticmarkup.
It will attempt o establish conventions for theencoding of such corpora, building on and contributingto the preliminary recommendations of the relevantinternational and European standardization i itiatives.MULTEXT will also work towards establishing a set ofguidelines for text software development, which will bewidely published in order to enable future developmentby others.
All tools and data developed within the projectwill be made freely and publicly available.Keywords.
multi-lingual corpora, text markup, textsoftware, corpus annotation.1.
IntroductionText-oriented methods and software tools have come tobe of primary interest to the NLP community.
However,existing tools for natural anguage processing (NLP) andmachine translation (MT) corpus-based research aretypically embedded in large, non-adaptable systemswhich are fundamentally incompatible.
Little effort hasbeen made to develop software standards, and softwarereusability is virtually non-existent.
As a result, there is aserious lack of generally usable tools to manipulate andanalyze text corpora that arc widely available forresearch, especially for multi-lingual al)plications.At the same time, the availability of data is hampered bya lack of well-established standards for encodingcorpora.
Although the Text Encoding Initiativc (TEI) hasprovided guidelines for text encoding \[Sper94\], they arcso far largely untested on real-scale data, especiallymulti-lingual data.
Further, the TEl Guidelines offer abroad range of text encoding solutions erving a w~rietyof disciplines and applications, and are not intended toprovide specific guidance for the purposes of NLP andMT corpus-based research.MIJLTEXT (Multilingual Text Tools and Corpora) ix arecently initiated large-scale project funded under timCommission of European Communities LinguisticResearch and Engineering Program, which is intended toaddress these problems.
The project will contribute to thedevelopment of generally usable software tools tonmnipulate and analyse text corpora and to create multi-lingual text corpora with structural and linguisticmarkt, p. It will attempt o establish conventions for theencoding of such corpora, building on and contributingto the preliminary recommendations of the relevantinternational and European standardization i itiatives.MULTEXT will also work towards establishing a set ofguidelines for text software development, which will bewklely published in order to enable future developmentby others.
The project consortimn, consisting of eightacademic and research institutions and six majorEuropean industrial partners, is committed to make itsresults, namely corpus, related tools, specifications andaccompanying documentation, freely and publiclyavailable.2.
Project OverviewAt the outset of the project, the consortimn willundertake to analyse, test and extend the SGML-basedrecommendations of the TEl on real-size data, andgradually devch)p encoding conventions pecificallysuited to nmlti-lingual corpora and the needs of NLP andMT corpus-based researcb.
To manipulate largequantities of such texts, the partners will, in collaborationwith the recently established Text Software Initiative(TS\[), develop conventions fo," tool co,~struction and usetbem to build a r:mge of highly language-independent,atomic and cxtensible software tools.These specifications will be the basis for thcdevelopment of two major software resources, namely(a) tools for the linguistic annotation of texts (e.g.segmenters, morphological analysers, part of speechdisambiguators, aligners, prosody taggers and post-editing tools), and (b) tools for the exploitation ofannotated texts (e.g.
tools for indexing, search andretrieval, statistics).
This software will be implementedunder UNIX, while its specific properties shouldfacilitate portability to other systems.
Moreover, it willbe integrated by means of a common user interface into atext corpus manipulation system expected to provide thebasic functionality needed in academic or industrialcorpus research.
For the overall software design as wellas the development of specific components, MULTEXTwill capitalise on the experience and, possibly,preliminary results achieved in the ALEP project.By using the emerging software tools, the consortiumplans to produce a substantial multilingual corpus,including parallel texts and spoken data, in six EC588languages (English, French, Spanish, German, Italian andDutch).
The entire corpus will be marked for grosslogical and structural features; a subset of the corpus willbe marked and hand-validated for sentence and sub-sentence features, part of speech, alignment of paralleltexts, and speech prosody.
All markup will have tocomply to the TEI-based corpus encoding conventionsestablished within the project.
Tim corl)us will also serveas a tcstbed for the project ools and a resource for futuretool development and evaluation.An application programming iuterfime will facilitate thecoupling of the progressively refined software and datacomponents with several existing langt, age applicationsystems or prototypes.
In particular, the industrialpartners phm to develop extraction software fl)r lexiealand terminological infornmtion to complement andimprove their Terminology Management, InformationR.etrieval or Machine Translation systems.
Some effcwtwill also be devoted to a prototypical api)lication fortesting and comparing successive versions of a MachineTranslation system.3.
Background and approach3.1.
Software StandardMULTEXT is strongly committed to "softwarereusability", to avoid the re-inventing of tim wheel anddevelopment of largely incompatible and non-extcnsihlesoftware that is characteristic of much language-analyticresearch in the past three decades.
Therefore, the projectwill establish a software standard for the development ofits tools.
This will enable these tools to be universallyused and extended hy others.We outline here the principles (borrowed from\[IdeV93a\]) nnderlying the MULTEXT approach tosoftware design, which enable flexibility, extendability,and reusability.?
Principle 1: lxmguage independenceThe first goal is to extend existing mctlmds to otlmrEuropean languages.
So far, these methods have beenapplied almost exclusively to English.
Therefore, themethods will be adapted to produce language-independent tools, by using an engine-based approachwhere all hmguage dependent materials arc provided asdata.
Thus, extension of the tools to cover additionallanguages will in most cases involve only providing theappropriate tables and rules.?
Principle 2: AtomicityExisting text analytic software often comprises large,integrated systems that are nearly impossible to adapt orextend.
MULTEXT will produce a set of small tools(often on the order of a few lines of code, with theabsolute minimum of t'unctionality) that researchers canuse alone or combine to create larger, more complexprograms, thereby implementing a "software l.cgo"approach.
In this way, increasingly complex programbundles can be developed without the overhead of largesystem design, and with ease of modification since anyprogram can be de-bundled into its constituent programs,each consisting of small, easily understandable piece ofcode.
MULTEXT will bundle its tools in acomprehensive corpus-handling system, as welt asdemonstrate heir use in several high-level applications,thus showing different ways in which tim "Legos" can berecombined in specific applications.?
Princil/e 3: OperatotZ~'tream pproachMUI.
'I'EXT will adopt the operator/stream apl)roach toscfftware design, which has had widespreadimplementation and use and is generally accepted inresearch and industry.
In particular, it has been usedincreasingly in computational linguistics applications(see, for instance, \[I,ibe92\]).
The operator/streamapproach as served as the basis for the UNIX operatingsystem, which as a result provides a ready-made platformfor its implementation.In the operator/stream approach, data flows in uni-directional "slreams" between functions.
Each of thesefunctions is an "operator" that translbrms the data as itpasses by.
Since everything is understood in terms ofwhat goes in and what comes out, the emphasis is onwhat needs to be done rather than how it is done.
"Fhisenables a focus on overall algorithms rather titanimplementation details.
Component functions areindependent, and at no point are compiled together in asingle program.
This is a key point, since it means thateach operator can be implemcnted in a differentlanguage, developed by different people, testedindependently, etc.
In addition, new functions can bephlgged into the stream as necded, and all ft, nctions arecompletely re-usable in other contexts.?
Princil~le 4: \[hrique &tta typeCommtmication between programs will be by lneaus Offlat, \]roman readable streams and files, apart from well-defined, encapsuhlted binary formats for cases such asspeech signal, images, or indexes.
The only data type istherel'tn'e the stving.
There is some overhead in this;.Ipproilch, since conversion froul string to, s'ty, nulnbcrand back is required I()r numbers that are to bemanipulated arithmetically, but tim speed and storagecapacities of present-day machines virtu:ally eliminatethis concern.
More importantly, the use of string dataonly enables an easy test-modify-test cycle, since theinput and outi)ut of any step can be examined andmanii)ulated using all-purpose tools freely awtilable onmost machines, such as text editors, search software,sorting utilities, etc.
Fi,ially, colnplex data types ticprograms to specific Izmguages that implement hosetypes.
The use of a unique data type eliminates thisdependency.A fe,'dure of lilts strategy which is of major importance isthat any system can accept flat files.
Therefore, data isportable between different systems.
In addition, it islllUCh easier \[O port software from system to system,since tim software accepts lhe same kind of input data.l:()r example, a program in C is likely to work on anysystem with no or very minor modification.589?
Principle 5: Internal standardfi~rmats (ISFs)To write the compatible set of tools we describe, it isessential that all programs communicate effectively.
Thisdemands that internal standard formats (ISFs) for data bedeveloped, to serve as specifications for programdevelopment.
I  is essential that these formats are public,so that any program written anywhere by anyone can usethmn.ISFs, like the functions that process them, are verysimple and straightforward.
Many ISFs will be needed toaccomodate different possible "interpretations" of thedata, and their development will demand carefulconsideration of text types, their structures andproperties.
Therefore, ISF development should buildupon the TErs work on text structures and categories andensure compatibility with it.
Note that because ISFsrepresent only partially the information in an encodedtext (that is, whatever is required for certain operations),they do not replace a TEI/SGML encoding of data, whichrepresents all the information in an encoded text and canbe used for interchange.
Transduction programs toimport TEI-eonformant texts into one or more internalstandard formats, and vice versa, will be essential.3.2 .
ToolsAll MULTEXT tools will be developed according to theprinciples outlined above.
The project will use only well-known, state-of-the-art methods in tool development, inorder to ensure the project's feasibility (e.g., \[Chur88\],\[Cutt92\], [Gale9 l \], \[Hirst93\], [Hirst91\]).
The project willuse these methods to produce a set of tools that is freelyavailable, coherent, extensible, and languageindependent.
The tools will be implemented underUNIX, but will be developed according to principles thatwill facilitate portability to other systems.The high-level tools produced by the project fall in twogeneral categories of corpus-handling fimetions that arebasic across applications (these functions apl)ly to mono-lingual texts, multi-lingual parallel texts, and speech):?
Corpus annotation tools:?
segmentcr: marks sentences, quotations, words,abbreviations, names, terms, etc.;?
morphological nalyser: provides possible lemmas,morpholgical features, and parts of speech;?
part of speech disambiguator: disambiguates part ofspeech where alternatives xist;?
aligner: provides alignments of passages amongparallel texts;?
prosody tagger: derives automatic modelling of F0curve and symbolic coding of intonation from thespeech signal;?
post-editing tools: assist in hand validation ofautomatically annotated corpora.?
Corpus exploitation tools:?
indexing tools: construct indexes for fast access todata;?
search and retrieval tools: browsing, concordancing,retrieval of collocations, etc., based on a givenword, words, pattern, syntactic ategory, etc.;?
statistical and quantitative tools: generate lists andstatistics--basic statistics for words, collocates(pattern or part of speech) such as frequency,mutual information, etc.
Also word lists, lists bysyntactic ategory, etc.To provide support for these tools, several other generalutilities will be required, such as general datamanipulation tools, UNIX shell tool, etc.
In addition, thetools will be integrated by means of a common userinterface into a general-l)urpose corpus manipulationsystem suitable for NLP and MT research.3.3.
Markup StandardOne of the goals of MULTEXT is to develop standardsfor encoding text corpora.We distinguish four levels of document markup:?
Level O. Document-wide markup:?
bibliographic description of the document, etc.?
character sets and entities?
description of encoding conventions?
Level 1.
Gross structural markup:?
structural units or text, such as volume, chapter,etc., down to the level of paragraph?
footnotes, titles, headings, tables, figures, etc., Level 2.
Markup for sub-paragraph structures:?
sentences, quotations?
words?
abbreviations, names, dates, terms, cited words, etc.?
Level 3.
Markup for linguistic annotation:?
nmrphological information?
syntactic information--e.g., part of speech?
alignment of parallel texts?
prosodyLevel 0 provides glohal information about the text, itscontent, and its encoding.
Level 1 includes universal textelements down to the level c,f paragraph, which is thesmallest unit that can be identified language-independently.
1 evel 2 explictly marks sub-paragraphstructures which are usually signalled (sometimesambiguously) by typography in the text and which arelanguage dependent.
Level 3 enriches the text with theresults of some linguistic attalyses.The TEI guidelines \[Sper94\] provide the basis forMUI:FEXT corpus markup for levels 0 (the TEI header),1 and 2 as well as many elements of level 3.
However,the TEl standard will need careful examination andadaptation \[IdeV93b\]:(1) the TEI sclteme is intended to be maximallyapplicable to a variety of encoding purposes andapplications.
Therefore it in many cases specifies everalencoding options for the same phenomena, nd provklesoptions and elements without the specific needs ofcorpus markup in mind.
(2) the TEl scheme is not complete; many areas are yetto he addressed.
For example, no TEI encoding scheme590for some aspects of spoken materials, such as prosodyiF0 modelling, synlbolie coding, etc.
), exists.
(3) the 'l'lZ.l scheme is largely untested on corpora,especially multi-lingual corpora.
Therefore, use of tileTEI scheme for corpus eucoding will ahnost certainlyrequire modification and extension.
For instance, TElmechanisms for aligmnent will require exteusion and/ormodification to handle lnulti-lingual text alignment andaligmnent of different levels of speech representation(signal,  orthographic tra,lscriptiou, i~honelnictranscription, prosody).
(4) the TEl scheme specifically does not aiul to providerecomnlendillions for certain content-related leinents.For example, while the 'tEl provkles several means tomark POS, it is not within tile scope of the TEl toprovide a standardized set of POS category #lanles.hlstead, it provides a flexible incehanism that canaecomodate any set of actual tag uames.
Similarly, tileTEI does not provide guidelines for uames which might,for example, be used as identifiers for texts, textcategories, etc.MULTEXT will use tile TEl scheme as the basis for thedevelopmeut of a "H'\]l-confornlant Corptts Em:oditlgStyle iCES) that is optimally suited to NI,I' research andcan therefore serve its a widely accepted TEl-based styletot European corpus work.3.4.
CorpusTile goal of MUI.TEXT is not to duplicate the variouslarge mulli-lingual data gathering initiatives by collectingraw data.
The intent of the p,oject is to provide avahlable resource that is not provided elsewhere, in tileform of a high quality multi-lingual corpus for sixEuropean languages, annotated for basic struetllralfeatures as well as sub-l)aragraph se,~meiltalioii, POS,and alignment i l l  parallel texts.The priinary goal of tile MULTEXT corpus is to inovide;.ill example and testbed for:(1) multi-lingual tools (especially cnginedmsed tools,aligunlent software, and nlulti-lingual exlr;iction tools);and(2) nlarktlp across a large variety of languages (h/cltldirl~.
;TEl text markup and the NERC panoeurolman part-of-speech tagset \[Mona92\]).MUI.TEXT has a secondary but inlportarlt gt)al toprovide a corF, us of value for geueral inguistic analyticpurposes, a,ld will aim to serve this goal to the extentpossible without compromising or coniplicating theprimary goal.The corpus will aim for three parts, each comprising sixlanguages (English, French, Gernlan, Italian, Spanish,I)utch):(1) a comparable corpus, consisting of 2M words perlanguage, composed of coral)arabic types of texts fronltwo or three different domains.
Ten percent of the corpusfor each language will be nlarkcd aud hand validated ti)lsul)-lmragraph segmentatiou and POS.
(2) a parallel CO#TJIts, composed of fully paralIcl text,;across the six languages and incltiding 2M words perlanguage.
Ilalf of the corpus for each hmguage will bemarked and hand-villidatcd for sentence alignmeut.
Tenpercent of tile corpus for each langtiagc will be markedand hand-wilidated for sub-paragraph scglnentation illldPOS.
(3) a Sillall speech co#7~ltS, consistiug of additiollalniarkup to he tised in conjunction wilh tile F~UROM-Ispeech database.
There is iuoveinenl towards lheintegration of NI.I '  and Slmeeh (see, for oxanlple,I{I.SNI\]'I'); MUI / I ' I iXT wil l  explore the possilfilities forsuch iutegraiion by attenipting to harmonize tools andllleihods froill both <'u'eiis.
MUI .TEXT wil l  pay speeiitlattention to pheilonleua ill the iutorseetion ill' the twodoulilius, in particilhlr prosody, whose supra-segulentalnattlre invites researc\]l iuto the coinplex relatioi~ships itholds with nlorphology alld syntax.To serve its goals, MIJIM'I'\]XT will aim to construct itsCoipUS accoltlillg to the 17111owing principles:?
lJritleip\[e I."
CotlsistetlcyThe salliC six languages wil l  be represented in equalillllotints in all paris of tim corpus.
Simihuly, equalanlouilis of the same typos of texts will tm provided foreach language.?
l'rineiple 2: ?1riely rclther than r?7)resemativenessThe MULTF, XT corpus is small-scale compared tonational efforts aimed at providing balanced,representative corpora ill a sitlgle language.
The projectdoes not therefore aim at representativeness or balance inconstructing its corpus.
Instead, tile MUI,TEXT corpuswill contain a var ie ty  of texls of different types and frontdifferent dolllailas, generally fo l lowing (whereapllroflriate ) knowI1 criteria I'rOlll corptls \]hlgilistics."
I'rim:iple 3."
lligh quail O, oJ',larkupIll Ihe slate of the ilrl, autoiil'llic uiarkup of segnlcntation,POS, iuld aligllllleiit is aboul 90..96% COH'OCi for I{nglish(and French in tile case of the tlansard), lu order toprovide a reference corpus for ftlrthor testing ofinethodologies and tools, MI;II.
'I't~,XT will hand-validatea portion ill' its corptlS to lllake it virtually error-free.?
Prineilde 4" Reuse ofavaihthh, &mrMULTEXT is not committed to the goal of collectingdata, but rather to enhancing with structural andlinguistic annotation data which ulay bc available fromother sources.
The imtiect therefl)rc aims to use existing,clean dala to the exleilt possible, in order to avoid theoverhead of tile acquisition process.l'rilwl'lde 5: Com,li l , lem to StWldwdsMUI,TEXT will use, build upon, and contribute tostandards for text markup, inchiding those of the Tlil as591well as the EAGLES pan-European POS tagset.
Becauseneither of these schemes have been widely tested, theMULTEXT corpus will provide both a testbed and abasis for their evaluation and modification or extension.4.
Exploitation and Future ProspectsIt is expected that the availability of basic multi-lingualtools and data will improve and extend R&D across awide range of disciplines, including not only the variousareas of NLP (language understanding and generation,translation, etc.
), but also fields such as speechtechnology, language learning, lexicography andlexicology, literary and linguistic omputing, informationretrieval, etc.
By feeding the results into severalcommercial pplications systems/prototypes, the projectis expected to show the potential of state-of-the-artmethods in corpus linguistics for improving industriallyrelevant language systems and services.References\[ldeV93a\] Ide, N., Veronis, J.
(1993).
What next alterthe Text Encoding Initiative?
The need for text software.ACtlNewsletter, Winter 1993, 1-12.\[Libe92\] Liberman, M., Marcus, M. (1992).
Tutorialon Text Corpora, Association for ComputationalLinguistics Annual Conference.\[Mona92\] Monachini, M., Ostling, A.
(1992).
Towardsa Minimal Standard for Morphosyntactic CorpusAnnotation, Report of the Network of EuropeanReference Corpora, Workpackage 8.2.\[Chur88\] Church, K. W. (1988).
A stochastic partsprogram and noun phrase parser for unrestricted texts.
InProceedings of the Second Conference on AppliedNatural Language Processing.
Austin, Texas, 136-143.\[Cutt92\] Cutting, D., Kupiec, J., Pedersen, J., Sibun,P.
(1992).
A Practical Part of Speech Tagger,Proceedings of the Third International Conference onApplied Natural Language Processing, Trento, 133-140.\[Gale91\] Gale, W., Church, K.W.
(1991).
A Programfor Aligning Sentences in Bilingual Corpora,Proceedings of the ACL Conference, Berkeley, 177-184.\[Hirst93\] Hirst, D., Espesser, R. (1993) Automaticmodelling of fundamental frequency.
Travaux del'Institut de Phonetique d'Aix, 15, 71-85.\[Hirst91\] Hirst, D., Nicolas, P., Espesser, R. (199l)Coding the F0 of a continuous text in French : anExperimental Approach.
12eme Congres Internationaldes Sciences Phonetiques, Aix-en-Provence, 5,234-237.\[IdeV93b\] Ide, N., Vdronis, J.
(1993).
Background andcontext for the development of a Corpus EncodingStandard, EAGLES Working Paper, 30p.\[Sper94\] Sperberg-McQueen, C. M., Burnard, L.(1994) Guidelines for Electronic Text Encoding andInterchange, Text Encoding Initiative, Chicago andOxford (in press).Appendix - Descriptive overviewMULTEXT (Multilingual Text Tools and Corpora)CoordinatorDr.
Jean VdronisLaboratoire Parole et LangageCNRS & Universitd e Provence29, Avenue Robert SchumanF-13621 Aix-en-Provence Cedex 1tel: +33 42 95 20 73fax: +33 42 59 50 96e-mail: vcronis@fraixll.univ-aix,frStart Date Jan. 1994Duration 26 monthsResources 238.5 person-monthsEstimated total cost 3.210.000 ECUPartners CountryCNRS FREUROLANG-SITE FRINCYTA ESDigital Equipment B.V. NLCAP debis Systemhaus KSP DEUniversity of Pisa (ILC/CNR) ITUniversity of Edinburgh (HCRCfl~TG) UKISSCO CIIAssociated Partners CountrySiemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG DEUniversitaet Muenster DERank Xerox Research Center I:1~Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona ESUniversitat Cen(ra\[ tie llareelona (FBG) ESUniversiteit Utrecht NL592
