COLLABORATION ON REFERENCE TO OBJECTSTHAT ARE NOT MUTUALLY KNOWNPhilip G. EdmondsDepartment of  Computer Science, University of TorontoToronto, Ontario, Canada M5S 1A4pedmonds@cs, toronto, eduABSTRACTIn conversation, a person sometimes has to refer toan object that is not previously known to the otherparticipant.
We present a phm-based model of howagents collaborate on reference of this sort.
In makinga reference, an agent uses the most salient attributesof the referent.
In understanding a reference, an agentdetermines his confidence in its adequacy as a meansof identifying the referent.
To collaborate, the agentsuse judgment, suggestion, and elaboration moves torefashion an inadequate r ferring expression.1 INTRODUCTIONIn conversation, a person sometimes has to refer toan object that is not previously known to the otherparticipant.
One particular situation in which thisarises is in giving directions.
For example:Example 11 A: Go straight ahead until you get to a funny-looking building.The hearer has to understand the reference wellenough that when he later reaches the building, hewill recognize it as the intended referent.A reference of this sort is often achieved through acollaboration between the conversants.
In such cases,the speaker has the goal of having the hearer know howto identify an object.
The speaker attempts to achievethis goal by building a description of the object thatshe believes will give the hearer the ability to identifyit when it is possible to do so.
The hearer needs tobe confident that the description will be adequate as ameans of identifying the referent, but because of theinevitable differences in beliefs about the world, hemight not be.
When the hearer is not confident, thespeaker and hearer collaborate omake a new referringexpression that the bearer believes is adequate.
Thiscan be seen in the following portion of a telephoneconversation recorded by Psathas (1991, p. 196).Example 21 A: Yajust stay on 2A, until ya get to Lowell Street.2 B: Is it marked?3 A: Yeah, I think there's a street sign there, it's anintersection with lights.4 B: Okay.In this dialogue, speaker B is not confident that he willbe able to identify the intersection at Lowell Street,and so suggests that the intersection might be marked.Speaker A replies with an elaboration of the initialexpression, and B finds that he is now confident, andso accepts the reference.This type of reference is different from the type thathas been studied traditionally by researchers who haveusually assumed that the agents have mutual knowl-edge of the referent (Appelt, 1985a; Appelt and Kro-nfeld, 1987; Clark and Wilkes-Gibbs, 1986; Heemanand Hirst, 1992; Searle, 1969), are copreseut with thereferent (Heeman and Hirst, 1992; Cohen, 1981), orhave the referent in their focus of attention (Reiter andDale, 1992).
In these theories, the speaker has theintention that the hearer either know the referent oridentijy it immediately.Although the type of reference that we wish tomodel does not rely oll these assumptions, we can nev-ertheless draw from these theories.
Thus, we base ourmodel on the work of Chtrk and Wilkes-Gibbs (1986),and Heeman and Hirst (1992) who both modeled (thefirst psychologically, and the second computationally)how people collaborate on reference to objects forwhich they have mutual knowledge.
We will brieflydiscuss these models, before we describe our own.2 COLLABORATION ON REFERENCEIn their t'nndamental experiment, Clark and Wilkes-Gibbs (1986) demonstrated that conversants use a setof inherently collaborative procedures to establish themutual belief that the hearer has understood a refer-ence.
In the experiment, two subjects were each givena set of hard-to-describe tangram figures that werekept hidden from the other.
One subject was requiredto get the other subject to rearrange his set to match theordering of her set, and to do so through conversationalone.
Thus, the two subjects were obliged to collab-orate on constructing descriptions of the figm'es thatwould allow them to be unambiguously identified; forexample, the one that looks like an angel with a stick.Clark and Wilkes-Gibbs developed the followingprocess model to explain their findings.
To initiatethe process, speaker A presents an initial version of areferring expression on which speaker B passes jndg-ment.
13 can either accept it, reject it, or postponehis decision until later.
If B rejects o1" postpones, then1118the expression must be refashioned by either A or 13.Refashionings are accomplished in three main ways:repairing the expression by correcting speech en'ors,expanding the expression by adding more qualifica-tions, or replacing part or all of the expression withnew qualifications.
Each judgment/refashioning pairoperates on the current referring expression, replacingit with a new one.
This process continues until theexpression, kept in the participants' common ground,is mutually accepted.This excerpt from Clark and Wilkes-Gibbs's dataillustrates rejection (line 2), replacement (line 2), andacceptance (lines 3 and 4):Example 31 A: Okay, and the next one is tile person that lookslike they're carrying something and it's stick-ing out to the left.
It looks like a hat that'supside down.2 B: The guy that's pointing to tile left again?3 A: Yeah, poiuting to the left, that's it\[ /laughs/4 B: Okay.Heernan and Hirst (1992) rendered Clark andWilkes-Gibbs's model computationally b casting itinto the planning paradigm.
Their model covers boththe initiator of areferring action, and the recipie/~t wbotries to understand the reference.
In this moctel, theinitiator has the goal of having tire recipient identifythe referent, and so constructs a referring plan givena set of beliefs about what the recipient believes.
Theresult of the initiator's plan is a set of surface speechactions, and hearing only these actions, the recipienttries to infer a plan in order to uuderstand the ref-erence.
Thus, referring expressions are representedas plan derivations, and an unsuccessful referring ex-pression is an invalid plan in whose repair the agentscollaborate.An agent can infer a plan even if it is invalid in thatagent's view (Pollack, 1990).
The evahmtion processattempts to find an instantiation of the variables uchthat all of the constraints are satisfied and the mentalactions executable with respect o the hearer's beliefsabout he speaker's beliefs.If tile recipient linds the initial referring expressionphm invalid, then the agents will collaborate in itsrepair.
Heeman and Hirst used plan repair techniquesto refashion an expression, and used discourse phms,or recta-plans, tocommunicate he changes to it.
Thus,a collaborative dialogue is modeled in terms of theevolution of tile referring plan.First, an agent lnust comnmnicatc that she hasnot understood a phm.
Depending on how the re-ferring plan coustrains tile choice of referent, sheconstructs an instance of either re jec t -p lan  orpostpone-p lan ,  whose resulting surface speech ac-tions arc s - ro jec l ;  and s -postpone  respectively.Next, one agent or tile other must refashion the re-ferring expression plan in the context of the judg-ment by either eplacing some of its actions (by usingrep lace-p lan)  or by adding new actions to it (byusing expand-plan) .
Tile result of both plans is thesurface speech action a -act ions .Because the model can play the role of both theinitiator and the recipient, and because it can performboth plan construction and inference, two copies ofthe model can converse with one another, acting al-ternately as speaker and hearer.
Acting as hearer, ouecopy of the system performs plan in ference on each setof surface speech actions that it observes, and updatesthe state of the collaboration.
It then switches rolesto become the speakel, and looks lot a goal to adopt,and constructs a plan that achieves it.
After respond-ing with the surface actions of the phm, it updates thestate of the collaboration, presupposing that the othercopy will accept he plan.
The system repeats the pro-cess until it can lind no more goals to adopt, at whichtime it switches back to being the hearer and waits fora response from the other copy.3 CONFIDENCE AND SAL IENCEA crucial assumption of Clark and Wilkes-Gibbs'swork- -and of l~leeman and Hirst's model-- is that therecipient of the initial referring expression alreadyhas some knowledge of ttle referent in question.
InClark and Wilkes-Gibbs's experiments, for: example,it is one of the tangram figures.
In other words, tilehearer can understand a referring expression if its con-tent uniquely describes an object hat he knows about.Obviously, an agent cannot use this criterion to under-stand the reference to the building in Example l---hehas never heard of the buildiug before.
What criteria,then, does he base his understanding on?The basis of our model is that the hearer can accepta referring expression plan if (1) the plan contains adescription that is use./M for making an identificationplan that tile hearer can execute to identify the referent,and (2) the hearer is confident hat the identificationplan is adequate.The first condition, originally described by Ap-pclt (1985b), is important because the success of therefen'ing action depends on the hearer formulating auselifl identilication plan.
We take the referring ex-pression plan itself to be the identification plan.
Themental actions in the plan will encode only useful de-scriptions.
For the second condition to hold, the hearermust believe that he identification plan is good enoughto tmiquely identify the referent when it becomes visi-ble.
This inw)lves giving enough information by usingthe most salient atributes of the referent.hl otrr model, each agerlt associates a numeric on-fidence value with each of tile attributes in the relSr-ring expression, and by composing these, computes a1119level of confidence in the adequacy of the completereferring expression plan that can be interpreted asranging from low confidence to high confidence.
Thepresent composition function is simple addition, butone could envision more complex systems to com-pute confidence, such as an algebra of confidence or anon-numeric system.
If the overall confidence valueexceeds ome set value, the agent's confidence thresh-old, then the agent believes the plan is adequate.
Thatis, if the agent is the initiator, she believes that theother will be able to understand the reference; if theagent is the other, he believes that he has understoodthe reference.Now, the confidence value of each attribute isequiv-alent o its salience within the context of the referringexpression.
Salience, for our purposes in direction-giving, is primarily visual prominence, but can alsoinvolve identifiability, familiarity, and functional im-portance (Devlin, 1976; Lynch, 1960).
One approachis to encode the salient properties in a static hierar-chy as Davis (1989), and Reiter and Dale (1992) havedone.
I But, ideally, salience should depend on thecontext sun-ounding the referent.
For example, theheight of a tall building would normally be salient,but not if it were surrounded by other tall buildings.This computation Would be quite complex, so we haveadopted a middle ground between the simple context-independent approaches, and a full-blown contextualanalysis.
The middle ground involves taking the typeof object into account when choosing attributes andlandmarks that relate to it.
For example, height andarchitectural style can be very salient features for de-scribing a building, but not for describing an intersec-tion, for which having a sign or traffic lights is impor-tant.
This approach still allows us to encode saliencein a hierarchy, but it is dependent on the referent.Table 1 shows an example of a simple salience hi-erarchy that an agent might have.
The hierarchy isactually a set of partial orderings of attributes, repre-sented by lambda expressions, indexed by object ype.In the table, the confidence value of using architecturalstyle to describe abuilding is 4.
The confidence valueof a tall building is 3, and so this attribute is lesssalient han architectural style.
The other rows (fordescribing intersections) follow similarly.
2Each agent has his own beliefs about salience.
It isthe difference in their beliefs that leads to the necessityfor collaboration on reference.
Ideally, the initiatorshould construct referring expressions with the recipi-ents' (believed) beliefs about salience in mind, but wehave chosen to avoid this complexity by making thesimplifying assumption that the initiator is an expertIThese models assmne that all agents have identical beliefs,which is clearly insufficient for modeling collaborative dialogue.2Given information about salience, we could construct such ahierarchy, but we do not presume that it would be easy to knowwhat is salient.
(and thus knows best what is salient).4 PLANS FOR REFERRINGAn agent uses his salience hierarchy for two relatedpurposes: the first to determine what is salient in a par-ticular situation, and the second to determine the ade-quacy of a description.
So, the hierarchy is accessedduring both plan construction and plan inference.In plan construction, the hierarchy is used for con-structing initial referring expression plans, and forelaborating on inadequate plans by allowing an agentto choose the most salient properties of the referentfirst.
The agent constructs an initial referring expres-sion plan in almost he same way as in Heeman andHirst's system.
Mental actions in the intermediateplans of a referring expression plan allow the speakerto choose the most salient attributes that have not yetbeen chosen, and constraints in the surface speech ac-tions make sure the speaker believes that each attributeis true.
3 Other mental actions in the intermediate plansadd up the confidence values of the attributes, and afinal constraint makes sum that the sum exceeds theagent's confidence threshold.
So, for a referring planto be valid, it must describe a unique object, and itmust be adequate with respect to the speaker's beliefs.This means that attributes beyond those required \['or aunique description could be necessary.
For example,to construct he reference to the building in Exam-ple l, the speaker consulted her salience hierarchy(in table 1) and determined that architectural style issalient.
Hence, she described the building as Jknny-looking.
This single attribute was enough to exceedher confidence threshold.During plan inference, the salience hierarchy isused when evaluating a recognized plan.
The men-tal actions in the intermediate plans determine theconfidence values of each attribute (from the heamr'ssalience hiemmhy), and add them up.
The final con-straint in the plan makes sure that the hearer's confi-dence threshold is exceeded.
Thus, judging the ade-quacy of a referring expression plan falls out of theregular plan evaluation process.
If the final constraintdoes not hold, then the invalidity is noted so that theplan can be operated on appropriately b  the discourseplans.For example, after recognizing the reference in Ex-ample l, the hearer evaluates the plan.
Assuming hebelieves the salience information in table 1, he com-putes the confidence value of 4.
If this value exceedshis confidence threshold, then he will accept he plan.If not, he will believe that them is an error at theconstraint that checks his confidence threshold.~ln tleeman and Itirst's model, an attribute has to be mutuallybelieved to be used.
Here, mutual belief is not possible becausethe bearer has no knowledge ofthe referent, but mutual belief isan intended effect of using this plan.1120Table 1: A salience hierarchy for an agent.salient-attribute(4, building, lX.architectural-style(X,Style)).salient-attribute(3, building, AX.height(X,tall)).salient-attribute(3, intersection, AX.called(X,Name)).salient-attribute(2, intersection,sign, AX.AY.has(X,Y)).salient-attribute(2, intersection,traffic-lights, AX.~Y-has(X,Y)).5 SUGGESTION AND ELABORATIONIf the recipient is not confident in the adequacy of theplan, he uses an instance of postpone-p lan  to inlbrmIhe initiator that he is not conlident ol' its adequacy,thereby causing tile initiator to raise her own confi-dence threshold.
Now, allhough he cannot refashionthe expression himself, he does have the ability tohelp the initiator by suggesting a good way to expandit; suggestion is a conversational move in which anagent suggests a new attribute that he deems wouldincrease his confidence in the cxpressiou's adequacyif the expression were expanded to include the at-tribute.
Coutinuing with the example, if the hearerwere uol confident about the adequacy of the.fitnny-looking building, hc might suggest hat the initiatoruse height (as well as architectural style), by asking Isit tall?.
Frmn this suggestkm the initiator might ex-pand her expression to the tallftmny-looking building.So, in our sense, a suggestion is an illocutionary actof questioning; along with actually suggesting a wayto expand a plan, the agent is asking whether or nottile referent has lhe suggested attribute.To decide what suggestion to make, tile agent usesan instance of suggest-expand-plan, which has amental action in its decomposition that chooses theattribute that he believes is the most salient hat hasnot been used ah'eady.
Tile result of tile plan is thesurface speech action, s - suggest ,  that communicatesthe suggestion.However, only the initiator of tile referring expres-sion can actually elaborate a referring expression, be-cause only she has tile knowledge to do so.
Depend-ing on whether the hearer of the expression makes asuggestion or not, the initiator has two options whenelaborating a plan.
If no suggestion was made, thenshe can expand the plan according to her own beliefsabout the referent's attributes and their salience.
Onthe other hand, ira suggestion was made, she could in-stead attempt to expand the plan by aflinning or deny-ing the attribute suggested.
\[f possible, she shouMuse the suggestion to elaborate tile plan, lhus awfidingunwanted conversational implicature, but its use maynot be enough to make tim plan adequate.Tile decomposition of expand-p lan  calls the planconstructor with the goal el'constructing a modif ie rsschema and with the suggested attribute as input--in a sense, continuing the construction of tim initialreferring plan.
The plan constructor attempts to find aplan with the surface speech actions for the snggestedattribute in its yield, but this might not be possible.
Inany case, the speaker constructs an expansion that willmake the plan adequate according to her beliefs.
4The response to a suggestion depends, obviously,on whether or not the suggestion was used to ex-pand tile plan.
The speaker can (1) affirm that theplan was expanded with the suggestion by using thes -a f f i rm speech act; (2) aflirm that the suggestionwas used, along with additional attributes that weren'tsuggested, by using s -a f f i rm and s -ac t ions ;  or(3) deny the suggestion with s -deny,  and inform theother by s -ac t  ions as lo how the plan was expanded.By repeatedly using the postponement, elaboration,aud suggestion moves, the two agents collaboratethrough discourse on refashioning the referring ex-pression until they mutually believe tlmt the recipientis conlidcnt hat it is adequate.6 EXAMPLEWe have implemented tile model in Prolog.
Table 2shows the input/output of two copies of the system cuegaging in a simplified version of Example 2.
Note thatthe system generates and tmderstands utterances intheform of descriptions ofthe smTace speech actions, notsurface natural anguage forms.
The existence of aparscr and a generator that can map between the twoforms is assumed.
Complete details of this exampleand of the model are given by Edmonds (I 993).7 CONCLUSIONWhen an agent refers to a particular object that isnot previously known to another agent, she has tileintentiou that tile agent be able to identify the object(when it is possible to do so) by means of the referringexln'ession.
Because of the inevitable differences intheir beliefs about he world -specifically about whatis salient--the agents may have to collaborate omakethe expression adequate.4Recall that she raisect her confidence thrcshoM as a result ofthe heater's postponement move, so now she must meet Ihe flewthreshold.1121Table 2: Example of suggestion and elaboration.1 A:  Gotothe  Lowe l lS t reet in tersect ion .s -goto (Ent i ty )s-refer(Entity)s-attrib(Entity,~X.category(X,intersection))s-attrib(Entity,~X-called(X,'Lowell Street'))2 B: Does i thave  as ign?s -pos tpone(p l )s - suggest (p l , \ [ s -a t t r ib - re l (Ent i ty ,Ent i ty2 ,AX.AY .has(X ,Y ) ) ,s - re fe r (Ent i ty2) ,s-attrib(Entity2,AX.category(X,sign))\])3 A:  Yes, i tdoes ,  and i ta l sohast ra f f i c l ights .s-affirm(pl,\[s-attrib-rel(Entity,Entity2,AX.AY.has(X,Y)),s-refer(Entity2),s-attrib(Entity2,AX-category(X,sign))\])s-actions(pl,\[s-attrib-rel(Entity,Entity3,AX.AY.has(X,Y)),s-refer(Entity3),s-attrib(Entity3,AX.category(X,traffic-lights))\])4 B: Okay.s -accept (p123)We have implemented a computational plan-basedmodel that accounts for the collaborative nature of ref-erence in the domain of interactive direction-giving.An agent constructs a referring expression plan byusing the referent's most salient features.
An agentunderstands areference once he is confident in the ad-equacy of its (inferred) plan as a means of identifyingthe referent.
To collaborate, the agents use judgment,suggestion, and elaboration moves to refashion the re-ferring expression until they mutually believe that therecipient has understood.AcknowledgmentsOur wm'k is supported by the University of'lbronto and by the Nat-nral Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada.
Weare gratefld to Peter Heeman, Graeme llirst, and Jeffrey Siskindfor many helpful discussions.ReferencesDouglas E. Appelt (1985a).
Planning English referring expres-sions.
Artificial Intelligence, 26( 1 ): 1-33.Douglas E. Appelt (1985b).
Some pragmatic issues in the plan-ning of definite and indefinite noun phrases.
In Proceedingsof the 23rd Annual Meeting of the Association Jbr Compu-tational Linguistics, pages 198-203.Douglas E. Appelt and Amichai Kmnfeld (1987).
A computa-tional model o1' referring.
In Proceedings of the Tenth Inter-national Joint Conference on Arli\[icial hltelligence (lJCA1-87), pages 640-647.Herbert H. Clark and Deanna Wilkes-Gibbs (1986).
Refen'ing asa collaborative process.
Cognition, 22:1-39.
Reprinted inCohen, E R., Morgan, J., and Pollack, M. E., editors.
(1990).Intentions h~ Communication.
MIT Press.
pages 463-493.Philip R. Cohen (1981).
The need for referent identification as aplanned action.
In Proceedh~gs ofthe Seventh aernationalJoint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (HCAI-81 ), pages31-36.James Raymond Davis (1989).
Back Seat Driver: Voice As-sisted Automobile Navigation.
l'h.D, thesis, MassachusettsInstitute of %chnology.Ann S. Devlin (1976).
The "small town" cognitive map: Adjust-ing to a new environment.
In G.T.
Moore and R.G.
Golledge,editors, Environmental Knowing: Theories, Research andMethods.
Dowden, tlutchinson and Ross.Philip G. Edmonds (I 993).
A computational model of collabora-tion on reference in direction-giving dialogues.
M.Sc.
the-sis, published as technical report CSRI-289, Department ofCompnter Science, University of Toronto.Peter A. Heeman and Graeme Hirst (1992).
Collaborating onrefen'ing expressions.
Technical Report TR 435, ComputerScience Dept., Univ.
of Rochester, Rochester, New York.Kevin Lynch (1960).
The hnage of the City.
M1T Press.Mm~ha Pollack (1990).
Plans as complex mental attitudes.
InR R. Cohen, J. Morgan, and M. E. Pollack, editors, Inten-tions in Communication, pages 77-103.
MIT Press.George Psathas (1991 ).
The structure of direction-giving in inter-action.
In Deirdre Boden and Don I1.
Zimmermau, editors,Talk and Social Structure, pages 195-216.
Polity Press.Ehud Reiter and Robert Dale (1992).
A fast algorithm for thegeneration of referring expressions.
In Proceedings of theldth International Conference on Computational Linguis-ticks I (COLING-92), pages 232-238.John.
R. Searle (1969).
SpeechActs: An Essay in the Philosophyq\[Language.
Cambridge University Press.1122
