Encoding standards for large text resources:The Text Encoding InitiativeNancy  IdeDepartment of Computer ScienceVassar CollegePoughkeepsie, New York 12601 (U.S.A.)LaboratoirE Parole et LangageCNRS/Universitd e Provence29, Avenue R.obert Schuman13621 Aix-en-Provence Cedex 1 (France)e-maih ide@cs,  vassar ,  eduAbstract.
The Text Encoding Initiative (TEl) is aninternational project established in 1988 to developguidelines for the preparation and interchange ofelectronic texts for research, and to satisfy a broad rangeof uses by the language industries more generally.
Theneed for standardized encoding practices has becomeinxreasingly critical as the need to use and, mostimportantly, reuse vast amounts of electronic text hasdramatically increased for both research and industry, inparticular for natural language processing.
In January1994, the TEl isstled its Guidelines for the Fmcoding andhiterehange of Machine-Readable Texts, which providestandardized encoding conventions for a large range oftext types and features relevant for a broad range ofapplications.Keywords.
Encoding, markup, large text resources,corpora, SGML.1.
IntroductionThe past few years have seen a burst of activity in thedevelopment of statistical methods which, applied tomassive text data, have in turn enabled the dcvelopnmntof increasingly comprehensive and robust models oflanguage structure and use.
Such models are increasinglyrecognized as an inwduable resource for natural angu:lgeprocessing (NLP) tasks, inch,ding machine translation.The upsurge of interest in empricial methods forlanguage modelling has led inevitably to a need formassive collections of texts of all kinds, including textcollections which span genre, register, spoken andwritten data, etc., as well as domain- or application-specific collections, and, especially, multi-lingualcollections with parallel translations.
In tile latter half ofthe 1980's, very few appropriate or adequately large textcollections existed for use in computational linguisticsresearch, especially for languages other than English.Consequently, several efforts to collect and disseminatelarge mono- and multi-lingual text collections have beenrecently established, including the ACL Data CollectionInitiative (ACL/DCI), the European Corpus Initiative(ECI), which has developed a multilingual, partiallyparallel corpus, the U.S. Linguistic Data Consortium(LDC), RELATOR and MULTEXT in EuropE, etc.
(seeArm.strong-Warwick, 1993).
It is widely recognized thatsuch efforts constitute only a beginning for the necessarydata collection and dissemination efforts, and thatconsiderable work to develop adequately large andappropriately constituted textual resources still remains.The demand for extensive reusability of large textcollections in turn requires the development ofstandardized encoding formats for this data.
It is no longerrealistic to distribute data in ad hoc formats, since theeflbrt and resources required to clean tip and reformat thedata for local use is at best costly, and in many casesprohibitive.
Because much existing and potentiallyavailable data was originally formatted R)r the purposesof printing, the information explicitly represented in theencoding concerns a imrticular physical realization of atext rather than its logical strttcture (which is of greaterinterest for most NLP applications), and thecorrespondence b tween the two is often difficult orimpossihle to Establish without substantial work.Further, as data become more and more available and tileUSE of large text collections become more central to NLPresearch, general and publicly awdlable software tomanipt, late tile texts is being developed which, to heitself reusable, also requires the existence of a standardencoding format.A standard encoding format adequate for representingtextual data for NLP research must be (1) capable ofrepresenting the different kinds of information across thespectrum of text types and languages potentially ofinterest to tile NLP research community, including prosE,technical documents, newspapers, verse, drama, letters,dictionaries, lexicons, etc.
; (2) capable of representingdifferent levels of information, including not onlyphysical characterstics and logical structure (as well asother more complex phenomena such as intra- and inter-textual references, aligtunent of parallel elements, etc.
),but also interpretive or analytic annotation which may beadded to the data (for exainple, markup for part of speech,syntactic structure, Etc.
); (3) application independent, thatis, it must provide the required flexibility and generalityto enable, possibly siumltaneously, the explicit encodingof potentially disparate types of information withiu thcsame text, as well as accomodate all potential types ofprocessing.
The development of such a suitably flexibleand cornprehensivE encoding system is a substantialintellectual task, demanding (just to start) thedevelopment of suitably complex models for the wirioustext types as well as an overall model of text and ,'marchitecture for the encoding scheme that is to embody it.5742.
The Text Encoding InitiativeIn 1988, the Text Encoding Initiative ('I'EI) wasestablished as an international co-operative researchproject o develop a general and tlexible set of guidelinesfor the preparation and interchange of electronic texts.The TEI is jointly sponsored by the Association lotComputers and the Hmnanities, the Association forComputational Linguistics, and the Association forLiterary and Linguistic Computing.
The proiect has hadmajor support from the I_I.S.
National Endowment fortile Humanities (NEH), 1)irectorate XIII of theCmmnission of tile F.tlropean Colmnunities (CIJ.C/I)(J -XIII), tile Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, and tile SocialScience and tlumanities Research Council of Canada.In January 1994, the "I'E\]~ issued its Guidelines for theEncoding and hiterchange of Machine-Readable Texts,which provide standardized encoding conventions for alarge range of text types and features relevant for a broadrange of appl ications, inchlding natural languageprocessing, infommtion retrieval, hypertext, electronicpublishing, various forms of literary and historicalanalysis, lexicography, etc.
The Guidelines are intendedto apply to texts, written or spoken, in any naturallanguage, of any date, in any genre or text type, withoutrestriction vn form or content.
They treat bothcontinuous materials (rttnning text) and discontinuousmaterials uch as dictionaries and linguistic corpora.
Assuch, the TEl Guidelines answer the fundamental needs ofa wide range of users: researcher~'; in cmnputationallinguistics, the humanities, sciences, and socialsciences; lmblishers; librarians and those concernedgenerally with document retrieval and storage; as well asthe growing language technology community, which isamassing sttbstantial multi-lingual, multi-modal corporaof spoken and written texts and lexicons in order toadvance research in ht, man hmguage understanding,production, and translation.
"File rules and recommendations made in the 'I'I:AGuidelines conform to the ISO 8879, which defines theStandard Generalized Markup 1.,anguage, and IS() 646,which defines a standard seven-hit character set in termsof wt,ich tile recommendations on character-levelinterchange are formulated, l SGMI, is an increasinglywidely recognized international markup standard whichhas been adopted by the US Department of Defense, theCoinmission of Et,ropcan Communities, and ntmlerouspublishers and holders of large public databases.2.1.
OverviewPrior to the establishment of the TEI, most projectsinvolving the capture and electronic representation ftexts and other linguistic data developed their own1 For more extensive discussion of tim project's history,rationale, and design principles see Tlil internaldocuments EDP1 and EDP2 (awdlable fi'om the TEl) andIde and Sperberg-McQueen (1994) and Burnard andSperberg-McQueen (1994), both forthcoming in a specialtriple issue on the TEl in Con,puters and theHumanities.encoding schemes, which usually could only be used forthe data for which they were designed.
In many cases,there had been no prior analysis of the required categoriesand features and the relations among them for a giventext type, in the light of real and potential processing andanalytic needs.
The TEl has motiwlted and accomplishedthe substantial intellectual task of completing thisanalysis for a large number of text types, and providesencoding conventions based upon it for describing tilephysical and logical structure of many classes of texts, aswell as features particular to a given text type or notconventionally rep,csented in typogral)hy.
The TElGuidelines also cover COlllnlOll text encoding problems,including intra- and inter-textual cross reference,demarcation of arbitrary text segments, alignment ofparallel elements, overlapping hierarchies, etc.
Inaddition, they provide conventions for linking texts toacoustic and visual data.The TEI's specific achievements include:1. a determination that the Standard GeneralizedMarkup I4mguage (SGML) is tile framework fordevelopment of the Gnklelines;2. the specif icat ion of restr ict ions on andrecommendations for SGML use that best servesthe needs of interchange, aswell as enables maximalgenerality and flexibility in order to serve the widestpossible range of research, develol)ment , andapplication eeds;3. analysis and identification of  categories and featuresfor encoding textual data, at many levels of detail;4. specification of a set of general text structuredel'inititms that is effective, flexible, and extensihle;5. specification of a method for in-file documentationof electronic texts compatible with librarycataloging conventi(ms, which can he used to tracethe history of the texts and thus assist inauthent icat ing their provenance and themodifications they have undergone;6. specification of encoding conventions for specialkinds of texts (n" text features, including:a. char~lcter setsb.
language COlp(+ritc.
general inguisticsd.
dictionariese.
terminological dataf.
spoken textsg.
hypermedklh.
literary prosei.
versej.
dramak.
historical source materials1.
text critical apparatus3.
Basic architecture of the TE l  scheme3.1.
General  archi tectureThe 'I'EI Guidelines are built on the assumption thatthere is a common core of textual features hared byvMually all lexts, beyond which many different elementscan be encoded.
Therefore, the Guidelines provide anextensible framework containing a common core (~l575features, a choice of frameworks or bases, and a widevariety of optional additions for specific applications ortext types.
The encoding process is seen as incremental,so that additional markup may be easily inserted in thetext.Because the TEl is an SGML application, a TEIconformant document must be described by a documenttype definition (DTD), which defines tags and provides aBNF grammar description of the allowed structuralrelationships among them.
A TEl DTD is composed ofthe core tagsets, a single base tagset, and any number ofuser selected additional tagsets, built up according to a setof rules documented in tile TEI Guidelines.At the highest level, all TEI documents conform to acommon model.
The basic unit is a text, that is, anysingle document or stretch of natural language rcgm'ded asa self-contained unit for processing purposes.
Theassociation of such a unit with a header describing it as abibliographic entity is regarded as a single TEI element.Two variations on this basic structure are defined: acollection of TEl elements, or a variety of compositetexts.
The first is appropriate for large disparatecollections of independent texts such as language corporaor collections of unrelated papers in an archive.
Thesecond applies to cases such as the complete works of agiven author, which might be regarded simultaneously asa single text in its own right and as a series ofindependent texts.It is often necessary to encode more than one view of atext--for example, the pbysical and the lingtfistic or theformal and the rhetorical.
One of the essential features ofthe TEl Guidelines is that they offer the possibility toencode many different views of a text, simultaneously ifnecessary.
A disadvantage of SGML is that it uses adocument model consisting of a single hierarchicalstructure.
Often, different views of a text define multiple,possibly overlapping hierarchies (for example, thephysical view of a print version of a text, consisting ofpages sub-divided into physical lines, and the logicalview consisting of, for example, paragraphs sub-dividedinto sentences) which are not readily accomodated bySGML's document model.
The TEI has identified sever:dpossible solutions to this problem in addition toSGML's concurrent structures mechanism, which,because of the processing complexity it involves, is nota thoroughly satisfactory alternative.The TEI Guidelines provide sophisticated mechanisms forlinking and alignment of elements, both within a giventext and between texts, as well as links to data not in theform of ASCII text such as sound and images.
Much ofthe TEI work on linkage was accomplished inco l laborat ion  with those working on theHypermedia/Time-based Document Structuring Language(HyTime), recently adopted as an SGML-basedinternational standard for hypermedia structures.3.2.
The TEI  base tagsetsEight distinct TEI base tagsets are proposed:1, prose2.
verse3.
dntma4.
transcribed speech5.
letters or memos6.
dictionary entries7.
terminological entries8.
language corpora nd collectionsTbe first seven are intended for documents which arepredominantly composed of one type of text; the last isprovided for use with texts which combine these basictagsets.
Additional base tag sets will be provided in tileflrtnre.Each TEl base tagset determines the basic structure of allthe documents with which it is to be used.
Specifically,it defines the components of text elements, combined asdescribed above.
Almost all the TEI bases defined aresimilar in their basic structure (although they can vary ifnecessary).
However', they differ in their components: forexample, the kind of sub-elements likely to appearwithin the divisions of a dictionary will be entirelydifferent from those likely to appear within the divisionsof a letter or a novel.
To accomodate this variety, theconstituents of all divisions of a TEl text element arc notdefined explicitly, but in terms of SGML parameterentities, which behave similar to a variable declaration ia programming language: the effect of using them bere isthat each base tag set can provide its own specificdefinition for the constituents of texts, which can bemodified hy the user if desired.3.3.
The core tagsetsTwo core tagsets are available to all TEl documentsunless explicitly disabled.
Tile first defines a largenumber of elements which may appear in any kind ofdocument, and which coincide more or less with the setof discipline-independent textual features concerningwhich consensus has been reached.
The second defines theheader, providing something analogous to an electronictitle page for the electronic text.Tire core tagsel common to all TEl bases provides meansof encoding with a reasonable degree of sophistication thefollowing list of textual features:1.
Paragraphs2.
Segmentation, for' example into ortbographicsentences.3.
Lists of various kinds, including glossaries andindexes4.
Typographically highlighted phrases, whethertmqualified or used to mark linguistic emphasis,foreign words, titles etc.5.
Quoted phrases, distinguishing direct speech,quotation, terms and glosses, cited phrases etc.6.
Names, numbers and meastnes, dates and times, andsimilar data-like phrases.7.
Basic editorial changes (e.g.
correction of apparenterrors; regularization and normalization; additions,deletions and omissions)8.
Simple links and cross references, providing basichypertextual features.9.
Pre-existing or generated annotation and indexing57610.
Passages of verse or drama, distinguishing forexample speakers, stage directions, verse lines,stanzaic units, etc.11.
Bibliographic citations, adequate for mostcommonly used bibliographic packages, in either afree or a tightly structured format12.
Simple or complex referencing systems, notnecessarily dependent on the existing SGMLstructure.There are few documents which do not exhibit some ofthese features, and none of these features is particularlyrestricted to any one kind of document.
In most cases,additional more specialized tagsets are provided tit encodeaspects of these features in more detail, but the elementsdefined in this core should be adequate fro" mostapplications most of the time.Features are categorized within the TEl scheme based onshared attributes.
The TEl encoding scheme also uses itclassification system based upon structural properties ofthe elements, that is, their position within the SGMI~document structure.
Elements which can appear at thesame position within a document are regarded as forminga model class: for example, the class phrase includes allelements which can appear within paragraphs but notspanning them, the class chunk includes all elementswhich cannot appear within paragraphs (e.g., paragraphs),etc.
A class inter is also defined for elements uch aslists, which can appear either within or between chunkelements.Classes may have super- and sub-classes, and properties(notably, associated attributes) may be inherited.
Forexample, reflecting the needs of many TEI users to treattexts both as documents and as input to databases, a snb-class of phrase called data is defined to include data-likefeatnres such as names of persons, places ororganizations, numbers and dates, abbreviations andmeasures.
The formal definition of classes in the SGMI,syntax used to express the TEI scheme makes it possiblefor users of the schente to extend it in a simple andcontrolled way: new elements may be added into existingclasses, and existing elements renamed or undefined,without any need for extensive revision ~t tile TEldocument type definitions.3.4.
The  TEl headerThe TEl |leader is believed to he the first systcmaticattempt to provide in-file documentation f electronictexts.
The TEl header allows tbr the definition of a fullAACR2-compatible hihliographic description for theelectronic text, covering all of the lbllowing:1. the electronic document i self2.
sources from which the document was dcrivcd3.
encoding system4.
revision historyThe TEI header allows for a large ammmt of structured orunstructured information under the above headings,including both traditional bibliographic material whichcan be directly translated into an equivalent MARCcatalogue record, as well as descriptive inlormation suchas the languages it uses and the situation within which itwas produced, expansions or formal definitions for anycodcbooks used in analyzing the text, the sctting andidentity el participants within it, etc.
The amount ofencoding in a header depends both on the nature and theintended USE of the text.
At oae extreme, an encoder mayprovide only a bibliographic identification of the text.At the other, encoders wishing to ensure that their textscan be used for the widest range of applications canprovide a level of detailed ocumentation approximatingto the kind most often supplied in tile form of a manual.A colic(lion of "I'L:I headers can also be regardcd as adistinct document, and an auxiliary 1)'I'13 is provided tt~support interchange of headers alone, for example,bEtweEn libraries or archives.3.5.
Addit ional tagsetsA number of optional additional tagsets are defined by tileGuidelines, inlcuding tagscts for special application areassuch as alignment and linkage of text segments to formhypertexts; a wide range of other analytic elements andattributes; a tassel for detailed manuscril)l transcriptionand another for the recording of an electronic variorummodelled on the tradition,'d critical apparatus; tagscts fc)rthe detailed encoding of names and dates; abstractionssuch as netw?~rks, graphs or trees; nmthematic-d formulaeand tables Etc.In addition to these application-specific specializedtaSSelS, a general purpose tagset based tm featurestructme notation is proposed fnr the encoding of entirelyabstract intcrpretati(ms of a text, either in parallel orembedded within it.
Using this mechanism, encnders candefine arbitrarily complex bundles or sets of featuresidentified in a text.
The syntax defined by the Guidelinesformalizes the way in which such features are encoded andprovides for a detailed specification of legal featurewdue/pair combinations and rules (a feature systemdeclaration) determining, for example, the implication ofunder-specified or defaulted features.
A related set ofadditional elements i also provided for the encoding ~1degrees of uncertainty or ambiguity in the encoding of atext.A user of Ihe TEl scheme may combine as many or asfew additional tagsets as suit Isis or her needs.
Theexistence of tagsets for particular application areas in tileGuidelines reflects, to some extent, accidents of history:no claim to systematic or encyclopedic overage isimplied.
It is expected that new tagscts will be defined itsa part of the continued work of the "I'EI and in relatedprojects.
For example, tile l~ltropean project MULTEXT,in collaboration with EAGLIiS, will develop aspecialized Corpus Encoding Standard for NLPapplications based on the "I'E1 Gnidelines.
22 See Idc and Vdronis, MULTEXT : Multilingual TextTools and Corpora, in this vohnne.5774.
Information about the TEITo obtain further information about the TEI or to obtaincopies of the TEl Guidelines, contact one of the TEIeditors:C. M. Sperberg-McQueen, (Editor in Chief)University of Illinois at Chicago (M/C 135)Computer Center1940 W. Taylor St.Chicago, Illinois 60612-7352 USU35395@uicvm.uic.edu+I (312) 413-0317 Fax: +1 (312) 996-6834Lou Burnard, (European Editor)Oxford University Computing Service13 Banbury Road, Oxford OX26NN, UKlou@vax.ox.ac.uk+44 (865) 273200 Fax: +44 (865) 273275Tim TEI also maintains a publicly-accessible ListServlist, TE I -L@uicvm.u ic .edu  or TE I  -L@uicvm.
bitnet.Acknowledgments  -- The TEI has been funded by tileU.S.
National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH),Directorate XIII of the Commission of the EuropeanCommunities (CEC/DG-XIII), the Andrew W. MellonFoundation, and the Social Science and HumanitiesResearch Council of Canada.
Some material in this paperhas been adapted from TEl documents written by variousTEl participants.ReferencesArmstrong-Warwick, S. Acquisition and Exploitation ofTextual Resources for NLP.
Proceedings of theInternational Conference on Ruilding and Sharing ofVery Larrge Knowledge Bases '93, Tokyo, Japan,December, 1993, 59-68.Burnard, L., Sperberg-McQueen, C.M.
TEI DesignPrinciples.
Computers and the Ilumanitites SpecialIssue on the Text Encoding Initiative, 28, 1-3(1994), (to appear).Bryan, M. SGML: An Author's Guide, Addison-WesleyPublishing Company, New York (1988).Coombs, J.H., Renear, A.It., and DeRose, S.J.
Markupsystems and the filttlre of scholarly text processing.Communications of the ACM 30, 11 (1987), 933-947.Goldfarb, C.F.
The SGMI, Ilandbook, Clarendon Press,Oxtord (1990).van Herwijnen, E. Practical SGML, Kluwer AcademicPublishers, Boston (1991).Ide, N., Sperberg-McQueen, C.M.
The Text EncodingInitiative: History and Background.Computers andthe Humanitites Special issue on the TextEncoding Initiative, 28, 1-3 (1994), (to appear).Ide, N., Vdronis, J.
(Eds.)
Computers and thetlumanitites Special issue on the Text EncodingInitiative, 28, 1-3 (1994), (to appear).International Organization for Standards, 1SO 8879:information Processing--Text and Office Systems--Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML).ISO (1986).International Organization for Standards, ISO/IEC DIS10744: Hypermedia/T ime-based DocumentStructuring Languagc (Hytime).
ISO (1992).Sperberg-McQueen, C.M., Burnard, L., Guidelines forElectronic Text Encoding and Interchange,Text Encoding Initiative, Chicago and Oxlbrd,1994.Appendix: TEl Guidelines ContentsPart I: Introduction1.
About These Guidelines2.
Concise Summary of SGML3.
Structure of the TEl Document Type DeclarationsPart I1: Core "Fags and General Rules4.
Characters and Character Sets5.
The TEl I leader6.
Tags Available in All TEl DTDsPart Ill: Base Tag Sets7.
Base Tag Set for Prose8.
Base Tag Set for Verse9.
Base Tag Set for Drama1 0.
Base Tag Set for Transcriptions of Spoken TextsI 1.
Base Tag Set for Letters and Memoranda1 2.
Base 'rag Set for Printed Dictionaries1 3.
Base Tag Set for Terminological Data14.
Base Tag Set for Language Corpora and Collections1 5.
User-Defined Base Tag SetsPart IV: Additional "Fag Sets16.
Segmentation a d Migmnent17.
Simple Analytic Mechanisms1 g. Feature Structure Analysis19.
Certainty20.
Mannseripts, Analytic Bibliography, and PhysicalDescription of tile Source Text21.
Text Criticism and Apparatus22.
Additional Tags for Names and Dates23.
Graphs, Digraphs, and Trees24.
Graphics, Figures, and Ilhlslrations25.
I:ormulae and Tables26.
Additional Tags Ibr the TEl l leaderPart V: Auxiliary Document Types27.
Structured Ileader28.
Writing System Declaration29.
Feature System Declaration30.
"Fag Set DeclarationPart VI: Technical Topics31.
TEl Conlbrmance32.
Modifying T\[il DTDs33.
l,oeal Installation and Support of TEl Markup34.
Use of TEI Encoding Scheme in Interchange35.
Relationship of TEl to Other Standards36.
Markup for Non-llierarchical Phenomena37.
Algorithm fi~r Recognizing Canonical ReferencesPart VII: Alphabetical Reference List of Tags and ClassesPart VIII: P, et~rence Material38.
Full TEl Document Type Declarations39.
Standard Writing System Declarations40.
Feature System Declaration for Basic GrammaticalAnnotation41, Sample Tag Set l)echnation42.
Formal Grammar for tire TEl-Interchange-FormatSubset of SGML578
