Toward,q Automatic Extraction of Monolingual and Bilingualq?erminologyB(atr icc I)AILLI';* - l::,'ic OAUSSIEl l  - J(.
'ali-Mal(; LANCI;;( * )TALANA Univ.
Pa,'is 7 k IBM-France, See 3099, 75592 Paris Cedcx 12Emaih j ml((.0vnet.ibm.conlAbstractIn this paper, we make use of linguisticknowledge to identify certain noun phrases,both in English and French, which are likelyto be terms.
We then test and cmnl)are (lifl'e.r-ent statistical scores to select the "good" onesamong tile candidate terms, and finally proposea statistical method to build correspondences ofmulti-words units across languages.AcknowledgementMost of this work was carried out underproject EUII.OTP~A ET-10/63, co-sponsored bythe European Economic Conmmnity.1 Introduct ionA technical lexicon consists of simple as wellas complex lexical units.
Complex lexical unitsare mainly compounds, commonly character-ized by a set of morphosyntactic and semanticcriteria (see for example \[llenveniste, 1966\] forDench and \[tlatcher, 1960\] for English).
Theconstitution of a list of technical terms from aspecific domain is an important issue in Nat-urM Language Processing, for example in ap-plications such as Machine Translation.
Sev-eral methods for the extraction of terms havebeen proposed, relying on linguistic or statisticalapproaches.
To build a monolingual terminol-ogy bank, \[Bourigault, 1{)92\] has implemented asoftware package which provides it list of likelyterminologicM units, based on linguistic spec-ifications.
Different statistical methods haveMso been tested to extract collocations fromlarge corpora, as \[Church and lianks, 1990,Smadja aim McKeown, 1990\].
Our work makesuse of both linguistic and statistical knowledge.The outline of this paper is the following: lirst,given linguistic specifh:ations of English andl;'rencli terms, we select noun phrases which arelikely ta be terms, and which we will call can-didate terms.
To build a monolingual termi-nology bank, we then apply different statisticalscores to select the good ones among the candi-date terms.
Finally, we.
test statistical ineth-ods to obtMn ;~ list of bilingual terms, usingaligned corpora in l"cench and Ex@ish.
All workand tests are carried out on a parallel bilin-gual corpus that is tagged by the words' part-of-speech and lemma.
This corpus consists ofMmut 20(I,000 words for each language in thetieht of telecommunications.
Simil,~r work canbe found in \[Van der Eijk, 1993\].2 Linguistic specif ications ofFrench and English terms2.1 Basic mul t i -words  un i tsFrom an investigation of the cori)us, andfrom the tenninologists' point of view (for exam-pie \[Nkwenti-Azeh, 1992\]), it appears that mostof tile terms encountered in technical tiehls arenoun phrases corresponding to ~t limited num-I}er of syntactic patterns.
These patterns detinethe morphosyntactic structures of multi-wordsunits (MWU) which are likely to be terms.
Wedetine the length of a MWU as the number ofmain items it contains.
A main item is either anoun, an adjective, a verb or an adverb; thus,neither deternliners nor prepositions are consid-ered main items.
MWU of length 1 often corre-spond to words connected with a hyphen or anapostrophe, and are easy to identify.
We will notdeal with them in this paper.
Nor are we con-cerned with mono-word terms (e.g.
telematics),the extraction of which is a different -possibly515516snore complex- problem.
We present below thepatterns retained for MWU of length 2, whichwe will refer to as base MWU.
For each patternwe give an example followed by its translationin parentheses.
The interpretation of the abbre-viations is strMgthforward.French?
N Adjorbite gdostationnaire(geostationary orbit)?
N1  N2diode tunnel (tunnel diode)?
N1 de (det)  N2bande de frdquenee (frequency band)?
N1 prep (det)  N2assignation e't la demande(demand-assignment)Engl ish?
Ad jNmultiple access (ace,s multiple)?
N1  N2data transmission(transmission de donndes)2.2 Operat ions  on base  MWUAlthough MWU of length greater than 2 doexist, they are most of the time built from baseMWU by one of the following operations, en-countered both in French and English (the baseMWU is bracketed in the examples):?
overcomposition:rdgdngration des \[lobes latdraux\]\[side lobe\] regrowth?
modification:\[station terrienne\] brouilleuseinterfering \[earth(-)station\].
coordination:assemblage et dgsassemblage d paquetspacket assembly/disassembly0vercomposition and modification do notalways preserve the base-MWU structure: inFrench, an adjective modifier is often insertedinside a base-MWU of Igl prop /q2 structure;for example, national (domestic) cast be insertedinside rdseau fi satellites (satellite network) toproduce r'dseau national it satellites (domesticsatellite network) (notice that in English, theadjective precedes the base MWU most of thetime); in l';nglish, the Adj Ig structure is alteredwhen two base-MWU, one of Adj N1 struc-ture and one of N2 N:t structure, are overcom-posed: geostationnary satellite and telecommu-nication satellite yield geostationnary telecom-munication satellite.
Coordination, which re-quires two base-MWU, always breaks the struc-ture of one of them.
These operations are notused with the same frequency, composition andmodification being more frequent than coordi-nation.From the preceding considerations, it seemsnatural to focus on base MWU.
But, we tat~einto account he cases where base-MWU struc-ture is broken ms well as their variants.
Vari-ants of base-MWU are mainly graphical, ortho-graphical and morphosyntactic (for more detailssee \[l)aille, 1994\]).
In English, we have also ac-eel)ted the transformation of a base-MWU of N2lql structure into a N:I. of lg2 structure.2.3 Ext rac t ion  of  base  MWUTo extract and count the occurrences of baseMWU (under their various forms) we use theirmorphosyntactic structures.
IIappily enough,our corpus is tagged: we can rely on tile se-quences of part-of-speech to extract the rele-vant candidates.
For this purpose, we have im-plemented finite automata ssociated to regularexpressions covering most occurrences of mor-phosyntactic structures, including modilicationsclue to the afore mentionned operations.
Theoutput of the program is a list of pairs composedof two lemmas.
Under each pair are stored alloccurrences of the base MWU extracted fromthe corpus: for example, for the pair(interference, level),we get the following sequences:interference l vel, interference levels, level of in-terference, levels of interference;for the pair(circuit, num6rique),we get:circuit numdrique, circuits numdriques, ciTvuitenti~rement numdrique, circuits analogiques etnumdriques.Unfortunately, the pairs obtained throughthis method are not always "good" terms; wetherefore have to introduce additional filters:statistical scores which use the number of oc-currences of the pairs as input.Stat i s t i ca l  scores to se-lect  good  mono l ingua l  can-d idatesSince the MWU extracted after the lin-guistic specifications still contain noise, we usestatistical scores as an additional tilter in o fder to choose the ~good" ones among the can-didate base MWU (or candidates for short).These scores apply on candi&~tc lcmma pairsfor a given morphosyntactic pattern.
We con>puted different scores: frequencies, associa.tiol~criteria, Shaflnon diversity and distance mea~sures.
We discuss frequencies and associationcriteria below.
Informations provided by Shan-non diversity and distance measures are pre-sented in \[Daille, 1994\].
Most of the associa-tion criteria can be found in the classic liter-ature, such as \[Clifford and Stephenson, 1975\],and are based on the so-called "contingency ta-bles".
In the field of eomputationa.1 linguis-tics, mutual information \[Brown et al, 1988\],?2 \[Church and Hanks, 1990\], or a likelihood ra-tio test \[Dunning, 199a\] are suggested.Our testing method consists in comparingour result list, sorted according to a specifiedscore, with a reference list containing only validterms.
In order to l)uild the reference list,we augmented an existing terminology database(EURODICAUTOM) with hand work: we se-lected those candidates for which at least twojudges out of three agreed on their goodness,and included them in the reference llst.
A candi-date will be considered "good" when it is foundin this reference list.The program for the extraction of candi-dates was run on a 240,000 words French corpus,divided into 9,541 sentences.
It yiehled 2,400candidates that appear at least three times inthe text.
After sorting the candidates accord-ing to the particular score examined, we builda graphic representation of the prol)ortion of"good" candidates per range of score w~lues, inthe form of a histogram.
Figure 1 shows the his-tograms obtMned on the French Iqt de 1~2 can-didates with two different scores: the likelihoodratio and mutuM information.
The vertical axis,which represents the proportion of good candiodates, is bounded between 0 and 1. l lut, sincewe do not pretend to have built an exhaustivereference list, we can't actually expect values ofmore than 0.8.
The horizontM axis grows withthe score.
The likelihood ratio test (LOG) (theuse of a likelihood ratio test leads to a log likeli-hood statistics, which explains tile LOG abbre-vi:ttion) shows a curve that grows slowly at tirst,and then decidedly.
There is a true ol)positionill the behaviours of small and big v~Llues, therepresentativity of good candidates approaching0.8 in that case.
On tile contrary, mutual infor-mat, ion (MI) is quite uniformeiy distributed, andthe representativity never exceeds 0.5.
Thus, ifone had to choose between these two scores, thefirst one would undoubtedly be selected.The outcome of tile study of tile histogramsis that very few searing methods will meet ourobjective.
The most signilicant seem to be tit('.likelihood ratio test, and the number of occur-fences of the pair.
If it were for the sole his-tograms, one could be tempted to keep only thefrequency of the pair, but due to its definitionunfrequent terms won't stand out; therefore, wehave to keep several methods.
Anyhow, the per-formance of our scoring functions indicate tilebest method to follow: start any task (humanpost-editing for example) with the highest fre-quency values on monolingual candidates pre-viously identified via linguistic patterns, thusmaximizing the odds that the candidates willindeed be "good" candidates.Is the  best  score  a combinat ion  ofs(:ores?
An  ext ra  data  ana lys i s  methodTo complete the evaluation and comparisonof the different scores used to select actual ternlsfrom our candidates list, we have applied tothese scores specific data analysis methods.
Inour case, tile techniques of data anMysis can pro-vide at least two things: a probabillstic studyof the correlations between scores, in order toselect tile relevant ones, and the possibility ofcoml)ining scores, in order to improve the re-sults.We carried out Principal Component Analy-sis (PCA) with a set of fifteen variables, i.e.
tilescores, on a set of 1,230 individuals, i.e.
the can-5170.80.60 .40.200.50 .40.50.20.10 t ....Figure 1: It istograms corresponding to the log likelihood (left), and to mntnal information (right)didates.
The first objective of PCA is to reducethe number of variables with as little loss of in-formation as possible.
Doing so shouhl enableus to visualize our data more easily.
From thestudy of the correlation matrix of variables andtheir part in the principal axis, it appeared thatvariables could be divided into four classes.
Ineach class, we wanted to retain the most signifi-cant variable with regard to our task.
This wasdone by selecting in each class the variable withthe best score-histogram.
All other w~riablescan be confidently connected to one of these.With the remaining four variables we triedto investigate the set of candidates.
The diffi-culty of this task comes from the high nulnberof candidates, o we decided to work on smallersets.
We divided the whole set of candidatesinto six subsets depending on the number of oc-currences of the candidate (respectively with anumber of occurrences in the text equal to 2, 3,4, 5, between 6 and 10, and over 10).
This di-vision was used to counterbalance the fact thatmost scores tend to privilege low frequencies.We then visualized the candidates graphically(with different tick marks distinguishing termsand non-terms) on several two-dimensional dia-grams, the axis of which are linear combinationsof the different variables.
The results show seriesof marks overlapping each other, without anyclear separation between terms and non-terms.The PCA allowed us to go further in thestudy of the statistical scores, and confirmedthat only a few are relevant o our task; more-over, we found no satisfactory combination ofvariables that could account for termhood.4 Bilingual candidate termalignmentThe problenl is now one of finding correspon-dences between candidates across languages (be-tween English and I"rench in our case).
As it hasbeen shown in the previous ection, it is difllcultto restrict the set of candidates to the "good"ones.
l'~urthermore, if a candidate is really aterm, it shouht be easy to find the equivalent inother languages, or more precisely, in our case,in aligned sentences (supposing that terms arealways translated into the same lexical unit).For these reasons, we tried to pick out associa-tions between the whole sets of candidates, bothl?rench and English.
Sticking to our general phi-losophy of harmonizing linguistic and statisticalcontributions, we made experiments with twomethods.4.1 A s imple  count  method,  and  aposs ib le  improvementThis method basically counts how often asource candidate and a target candidate occurin aligned sentences; we shall cMl the resultingscore bilingual count.
For a given source lan-guage candidate, the most frequently alignedtarget candidates are sorted according to thescore; one can then apply the criterion definedin \[Gaussier et al, 1992\], which consists in ex-tracting a bilingual pair only when the targetcandidate has no stronger association with anyother source candidate.
Such a naive frequencycollection gives satisfactory results, providing asorted list where the top half candidates are518mostly good.
We can however try to improve onthat result by taking adv,'tntage of available lin-guistic inforIffation, namely the part-of-speechpatterns of the candidates.
We estimated, bycounting pattern alignments on a bilingual cor-pus, pattern aJfinity, which we define as theprobability that the pattern of the source candi-date gets translated into the pattern of the tar-get candidate (e.g.
terms with pattern NdcN inFrench get translated to terms with pattern NNin English in 81% of the eases).
Now, instead ofsimple counts of the occurrences of the sourceand target candidates, we use counts that areweighted with a function of the pattern aftin-ity of candidates, as explained in the followingformula:p,,o:,~.~(p, t 7,.,) x c(t)C(s ,  t) = ~, .
~.p,.ol,~4> 1>) x c (>)where C() means "count of", and p "patternof"; probes stands for the probabilities we es-t imated, and sent represents the set of alignedsentences in which both the source candidate, s,and the target candidate, t, appear.
Results arediscussed below.4.2 Another  method:  us ing  worda l ignment  scoresThis method consists essentially in align-ing terms using bilingual associations ofsingle words, that have been previouslycmnputed through statistical methods (see\[Gaussier et al, 1992\]).
Let wordcnl andworden2 denote the two words composing anEnglish candidate an(l, similarly, wordfrl andwordfr2 those for a given French candidate.Each time a source and target candidate occurin aligned sentences, we define the associationscore between the two candidates as the sum ofall the possible single-word-associations betweenthe words composing the candidates:Assoc(wordenl, wordf rj)L)3This method relics on the assumption that iftwo terms are translation of one another, thenwordfrl is likely to be the translation of, or atleast associated to, either wordcnl or wordcn2,and so is wordfr> For example, l)oth Frenchwords station and terrienne belong to the listsof single-word translation candidates associatedto the English words earth and station.4.3 I t \ ]va luat ion  and  resu l tsTo evaluate the results, we manually con-structed a reference list which contains 1,238correspondences of MWU2 we believe to beterms (a.ppearing at least twice).
For any listof candidate pairs to be tested (extracted andsorted according to some scores), we define itsprecision as the ratio of the number of elementsfound in the reference list to the total numl)erof elements, and its recall as the ratio of thenumber of dements found in the reference listto the total number of elements in the referencelist.
In so far as these parameters ;u'e affected bythe length of the list, we divided each list intounits of the same length, considering the first100 elements, the lirst 2(}0 elements and so on,till we reach the end of one list.
For each unit,we calcula.ted its recall a.nd its precision.
Thescores can then be compared in graphs showingthe evolution of precision and recall with thenumber of candidates considered.
Using suchgraphs, we found out that adding pattern prob-abilities gives only slightly better or equal re-sults than the silnple frequency method, whichdoes not entirely satisfy our expectations as totheir role on the quality of term alignment.The second method presented above, whichdoes not make use of pattern probabilities, be-haves better for candidates of rank 1,00(} andmore, hut worse for the first 100 best candi-dates.
The examination of the top 100 candi-dates for both methods brings another surprise:only 6 term pairs are cmnmon to the two metLods.
Of course this could be due to the restric-tion to the very hest candidates; but, suspectingthat there is nmre to it, we combined the can-didates from both methods and thus obtainedan improvement of precision in all the range ofcandidates.
The comparison between this com-bination of methods and the method involvingpattern atlinities is shown in figure 2.
The plainline in figure 2 shows precision and recall for thefirst method involving pattern aftinitles (whichis referred to as normal on the figure).
We thinkthat such results could be even better if we chosethe right combination of two -or, possibly, morethan two- scoring methods.All in all, our method provides 70% preci-sion for a list of more than 1,00(} candidates,or 80% if one restricts to the topmost 500. itgives a good starting point for terminologists51910080g~- 60 ,q.o"~ 4020"~ Precision,1""....J" \[__~_ normal method \]/ .
.~a  "j~" \[ _ , .
combined melh0dsJ, I , \] , I , .
I250 508 750 1000 1250N" of candidatesFigure 2: Precision and Recall when using first method vs. combined methods.520seeking to extract bilingual terms from texts.It has to be noted that the remaining "wrong"alignments are generally somehow relevant, buteither incomplete because one of the candidateshas a length of more than 2, or trivial becausewe also extract pairs such as following formula/ formule suivante.5 ConclusionFor monolingual terminology extraction, wehave first defined the linguistic specifications ofmulti-word unit terms.
These specifications areused to extract candidate pairs from the cor-pora.
I~om these pairs and using frequencycounts, we have applied a range of statistic~dscores, in order to find the score that wouldbest discriminate between terms and non-termsamong the candidates.
The simple frequencycount of the pair turns out to be the bestscore.
We then carried out bilingual terminol-ogy extraction using results from the nmnolin-gum step.
Two scoring methods augmented bythe use of prior knowledge about the bilingualcorrespondences of linguistic patterns were ap-plied to bilingual pairs of monolingua\[ candidatepairs.
In this case, the best way to proceed isderived from the combination of the two meth-ods.With regard to the future, we will focuson monolingual extraction of MWU of lengtha and more (based on the identified base MWUand linguistic specifications on term composi-tion), and on the improvement of term align-ment in order to deal with terms of heteroge-neous length.References\[Benveniste, 1966\] Benveniste B.
(1966).Formes nouvelles de l~t composition omi-nale.
\[n Gallimard Ed., Probldmes de lin-gulstique gdndrale, pp.
163-173.\[Bourigault, 1992\] Bourigault D. (1992).
Sur-face Grammatical Analysis for the Extrac-tion of TerminologicM Noun Phrases.
Pro-ceedings of the l~lh International Confer-ence on Computational Linguistics.\[Brown et el., 1988\] Brown, P. F., Co&e, J.,I)ellaPietra, S. A., DellaPietra, V. J., 3t-linek, F., Mercer, R. L., and Roossin, P. S.(1988).
A statistical approach to languagetranslation.
Proceedings of the 12th In-ternationol Conference an ComputationalLinguistics.\[Church and llanks, 1990\] Church K. W. andIlanks P., 1990\] (1990) Word AssociationNorms, Mutual Information, And Lexicog-raphy.
Computational Linguistics, Vol.
16,Number I.\[Olifford and Stephenson, 1975\] CliffordII.T.
and Stephenson W. (1975) An Intro-duction to Numerical Classification, Aca-demic Press.\[Daille, 1994\] Daille B.
(1994).
Study and fin-plementation of combined techniques forAutomatic Extraction of Terminology.
InThe Balancing Act: Combining Symbolicand Statistical Approaches to Language.Workshop at the 32nd Annual Meeting ofthe ACL.\[Dunning, 1993\] Dunning T. (1993).
Accurat,,Methods for the Statistics of Surpriseattd Coincidence.
Computational \],inguis-tics, Vol.
19, N~m~ber 1.\[G,~ussier t al., 1992\] Gaussier E., Langd J.-M.and Meunier F. (1992).
Towards BilingualTerminology.
Proceedings of ALLC/ACHCO@FCT"tCe,\[Ilatcher, 1960\] Hatcher A. J.
(1960).
An in-troduction to the analysis of English nouncompounds.
In Word, i6, 356-373.\[J,~cquemin, 1991\] Jacquemin C. (1991).
Trans-formation des noms composds.
Th~se dedoctorat en Informatique Fondamentale,Universitd Paris Z\[Mathieu-Colas, 1988\] M,~thieu-Colas M.(1988).
Typologie des noms composds.Technical l~.eport of the "Programme deReeherches Coordonn~es Informatique Lin-guistiquc', C.N.R.S.\[Nkwenti-Azeh, 1992\] Nkwenti-Azeh B.
(1992).Positional and Combinational Characteris-tics of S~tellite Communications Terms.
In-terim Report, CCL-UMIST.\[Smadja nd McKeown, 1990\] Slnadja I".
A.and McKeown K. 11~.
(1990).
AutomaticallyExtracting And Representing CollocationsFor Language Generation.
Proceedings ofthe 28th annual Meeting of thc A CL.\[Van der Eijk, 1993\] V~m der Eijk P. (I903) Au-tomating the Acquisition of BilinguM Ter-minology.
Proceedings of Em'opean A CL.521Computational Linguistics
