Ant ic ipat ing the Reader 's  P rob lemsand the Automat ic  Generat ion of ParaphrasesNils LenkeGerhard-Mercator-Universitact-Gtt Duisburg FB3 - ComputerlinguistikLotharstr.
65, D-47048 Duisburgvoice: +49 (0)203-379-2007; c-mail: he2331e@unidui.uni-duisburg.de0.
ABSTRACTThe notion of paraphrase is discussed ,'rod compared withthe similar notion of periphrase, qhe role of paraphrasesin oral communication is described, and the results of astudy on the role of paraphrases in texls are given.
Fi-nally, a system which models the use of p~aplu-ases intexts is described.1.
PARAPt lRASES IN I ) IALOGUESIf you look at ordinary dialogues you will find that com-munication failures - i.e.
different ypes of misunderstan-dings - happen frequently, cf \[Ringle & Bruce 1982\].
Oneimportant techaique for the participants of the communi-cation to solve these problems is paraphrasing, that is,saying it again in other words.
Parapla-ases can be offeredby the hearer ("Is it this what you want to say: ...") or re-quested from the speaker by five hearer ("Iluh?
1 don't un-derstand.").
These kind of paraphrases may be calledcotmnunicative or pragmatic paraphr,~tses.2.
OTHER NOTIONS OF "PARAPI IRASE"Notions of "paraphrase" xist which differ fiom the onepresented above.
In linguistics, especially Trimslbnnatio-nat Grammar, cf.
e.g.
(Smaby 1971), (Nolml 1970), theparaphrase r lation is induced by the rules of the limguagesystem.
Two formulations count as paraphrases of eachother if they can be derived from a common deepstructure, e.g.
the active and the passive version of asentence.
So, the paraphrase r lation is completelyindependent of the situation and communicationparticipants.
This view has been heavily criticiscd, cf.
(Ungeheuer 1969).In CI,, the generation of a surface form from ameaning representation is sometimes called paraphrasegeneration, especially if different surface forms can Ix:generated for the same meaning representation.
An,'unbiguity exists here, because the paraphrase r lation canbe meant o hold (a) between the mcaning representationand the NL text derived from it or (b) between twoalternative formulations which could both be derived fromthe meaning representation.1 will shnply call case a) "generation" because that iswhat it means: deriving a text from an underlying mea-ning representalion.
Case b), exemplified by (Gokhn~m1975) and most wolk in the area of Meaning-Text Mo-dels, cf.
e.g.
(lordanskaja, Kittredge & Polgut3re 1991),(Mercuk 1981), stresses the possibility of an alternativeformulation which could be uttered instead of anotherformulation, whereas in seclion 1 we talked of paraphra-sing as uttering a formulation in a&lition to imother for-mulation.
To differentiate between these cases I will notcall case b) tutraphrase but - in accord:race with classicalrhetoric - periphrase.3.
RELATED WORK IN CLQuite a lot of work exists on the use of paraphrases inconnection with Nl.-database frontentks, cf.
e.g.
(McKeown 1979), (Meteer & Shaked 1988).
"ll~e formalrepresentation g~fined from the user's query is translatedback to NI, ag~dn and the user is requested to indicate ifthe system understood him correctly.
This fits nicely intothe framework from section 1.As indicated atxwe, much of the work presenlcd underthe title "p,-uaphmse generation" should better be called"periphrase generation".
Reiter's (1990) system INgenerates - depending on the user model entry for theproblematic word "shark"- one of the following alternativefonnulations:I a) 'll~crc is a shark in the waterlb) There is a dangerous fish in the waterSimilarly, the system WISBER (Iloracek 1990) generatcsone of the following formulations, where the problematicword is "Notgroschctf' (nfiuy day fund):2a) 1 \[aben Sic cinch Notgroschen?
\[Do you have a rainy&ly lhnd't\]2b) 1 laben Sic ein Sparbuch mit zwci Ncttomonatsein-kommcn?
\[l)o you have a savings account with twomontlfs net income?\]In the terminology advocated here, the b)-c,-tses ,are peri-phrases of the a)-cases.
Real tormulations with p~u'a-phrases would look so,nethiug like this:lc) There is a shark,that is, a dangerous fish, in the water2c) l tabcn Sic einen Nolgroschcn, d.h. ein Sparbuch nfitzwei Ncltomonatseinkommcn?\[1)o you have a rainy day fund, that is, a a savingsaccount with two mouth's net income?It will be discussed below under which circumstances suchuttcnmccs could be superior to the ~0- or b)-cases.4.
ANT IC IPAT ION OF MISUNDER-STANDINGS AND TI IE IR  AVOI I )ANCETurning now to the geaeratiou of written texts it seems tobca  bit paradox to do this in connection with paraphrases,since in scction 1 we showed them to be a phcnomcmmof dialogue, i.e.
oral communication.
But parapla-ases doplay a role in texts as well, especi,'dly when anticipationis considered.
This elm ,'already be noted in the cage ofsi?
)kcn l~mguage.
A well known model of the preductionof spoken language is the one of I,evelt (1989).
One of itsmzfiu aspects is the existence of control and revision loopswhich can be used to monitor the planned or re,'dizcdutterm~ce and detect errors in it.
So, part of the errors c,'m319already be anticipated inadvance by the speaker before thehearer even gets to hear the problematic utterm~ce.When we now turn to written language again, we alsofind the concept of problem anticipation and revisionloops.
These are of even greater importance here becausethe reader normally has no chance of signalling his pro-blems with a text to the author.
So, the author has to takethe role of the reader and anticipate problems he mighthave with the text.
Most models of the writing processthus include a revision loop, cf.
the well-known model ofHayes and Flower (1980).
In CL, this mechanism isknown under the name anticipation-feedback loop, cf.
(Jameson & Wahlster 1982), and in the form of revision-based generation systems, cf.
(Gabriel 1988), (Vaughan &McDonald 1986).What are the options for an author if he detects troublesources in his planned text?
lte may choose toa) add a meta-comment; the addition of meta-conunents(Sigurd 87) like "loosely speaking", "to say itfrankly", "a kind of", etc.
is often used to indicate tothe reader how to interpret aproblematic utterance.b) add a futaher, alternative formulation (a paraphrase) orc) replan the text (formulate a periphrase).The rest of the paper will solely deal with b) mid c).
Whatwas said so far leads to the following hypothesis:Writers of texts anticipate reader problems, anti, in somecases, include paraphrases to avoid these troubles.5.
A STUDY ON PARAPI IRASES IN TEXTSA study, cf.
(Lenke, in preparation) for details, was con-ducted in order to find occurrences ofparaphrases in textsand analyse them with the aim of checking the hypothesismentioned at the end of section 4.First, a small corpus of German texts was scannedmanually for paraphrases; the major results were:?
Paraphrases of the kind described above can indeed befound.
Typical examples of such paraphrases are1:(3) "... introduces the notion of multiple inheritance- that is, the ability of a class to have more than 0hedirect base class - and presents ..." \[p. 182\](4) "A language is said to support a style of progr,'unmingif it provides facilities that make it convenient(reasonably easy.
safe.
and efficient) to use that style."\[p.
14\]?
only part (roughly 50%) of the paraphrases ,'u'eannounced by indicators like "that is", "in other words",parentheses orhyphenation.
The other paraphrases aresimply added as an apposition to the pm'aphrased term.?
the total number of paraphrases differs vastly betweentext types: in narrative texts few and mostly un-announced paraphrases occur; in more technical texts,1 the following English examples all stem from\[Stroustmp 1991\] and were collected just to be Englishexamples suitable for the presentation i  this paper.especially manuals and introductory texts, many para-phrases.In the second phase of the study, the I JMAS corpus ofGerman (1 million running words from 500 texts of diffe-rent types) was then scanned automatically for the mostconunon German paraphrase indicators (a.o.
"d.h.", "dasheiBt", in anderen Worten", "also") Well above 1000occurrences ofparaphrases were found and analysed.
"\[heresults of the first phase could be confirmed.
Other resultswel~:?
the syntactic form of the paraphrases i  in most caseseither a complete sentence (in which another completesentence isparaphrased) oran apposition, which be-longs to the same syntactic ategory ,as the word/phraseit belongs to.?
Paraphrases are directed to quite different problemsources which were anticipated by the author.
Amongthe different ypes found were the following:1. problematic lexical itemsa) unknown words (cf.
examples 3 above)b) ambiguous words;c) words of abstract nature which obtain their concretemeaning through the context in which they occur.
Theparaphr,'tses indicate the direction in which this concretemeaning should be sem'ched.
Cf.
example 4 above.2.
reference problemsa) ,ambiguous anaphoric references, e.g.
pronouns;b) anaphoric expressions where the referent is very distant(causing memory problems)c) missing knowlcdge to understand referring expression.3.
problems induced by rhetoric figures (metaphors,metonymy).4. inference problemsa) problems of ,'k,;pcctualization.
(only some aspects of themeaning of a word are relevant in a certain contex0.b) preblems of logical inferences.
(Obvious and relevantinferences from an utterance might be too difficult todnaw by tile intended reader).Thus, one can conclude that paraphrases ,are indeed used byauthors to avoid auticipated reader problems.
Theseproblems can be of all those types that have since longbeen noticed in file ,area of NL understanding.6.
IM I ' LEMENTED MODELThe next step in the project was to design and implementa model which describes this use of paraphrases in texts.It should answer tile following questions:?
I low can problems of the reader be anticipated??
Under which circumstances are paraphr,xses file adequateanswer to this problems (and not, say, periphrases ormeta.-co~mnents)??
I low can p,araphrases be genenlted?Three well known approaches toNL generation are com-bined in the model : user modelling, anticipation-feedback320loops ,'rod revision-b,'t~d text generation, its architecture isshown in Fig hFig 1: tile system's architectureqlae main feature is the revision/mlticipalion-feedbackloop, which is highlighted in tile figure.The types of problems for which paral)hntses c,'m begenerated by file system are restricted to problems whichoccur during lexicalization and involve only conceptualknowledge (no assertiomtl knowledge) in order to restrictcomplexity.
These are (in terms of seclion 5) tile typesla, lb, 3a, and - with restriclions - 4a, which are (togetherwith type lc) by flu" the most flequent ypes occurring innatural texts.
"llae other types could princip.
'dly be dealtwith in a similar lhshion.
A corpus of about 25 cxmuples,,all collected from the s,'une somce, the manual fl)r theApple Macintosh operating system 7, were used as abasis.
The advantages of this approach is that .
'illexmnples are based on a common domain (knowledgeabout Macintosh computers), so that a common lexiconand a common knowledge base can be used tot all ofthem.
Of course, the techniques and principles used arenot restricted to this ~t  of ex~nnples ,'m(l could betransfeffed to other dom~fins.6.1 An exampleTo demonstrate how the components of the systems worktogether consider example 7, from the co~pus on whichthe system is based:(5) Alle Macintosh Modelle sind mit einem Steekplatzoder &r t~f / i r  Gerlite ausgestattct, tier die SCSI-Schnittstelle (Small Computer System Interlace)unterst0tzt.
\[all Macintosh models fire cqtfil~pcd witha slot or ~ for SCSl-devices\]qtLe content pl,'mner of the system is only implemented asan oracle, that is, it is preset o produce tile concepts to beformnlated ,-rod to answer certain questions by tile formpl,'mner as if it were a full-fledged content planner in acomplete NL system.
In the concrete x,'unple, it wouldfirst inform the other components hat the linguistic on-text of the target item consists of the concept Macintosh(the only concept hat precedes slot in the lthmnedsentence) ,and would then request the form phmner toverb,'dize tile concept slot.The form planner would then look up tile firstpossible linguistic items for tim concept slot in thelexicon.
The lexicon not only iucoq~rates inlommtionabout the linguistic items but also about theirconnections to items of tile concept-base, qlmseconnections take the form of ZOOM-schemata, sknownfrom the WISBER system, cf.
(lloracek 1~)0).
Briefly,Z(X)Ms are links between concepts or slmdl sub-slrticltlres Of tile concept-netwo,k onthe one h,-md andlinguistic items (words) on the other hand.In our example, the first choice to verbalize slot would be'AnschluB'.
This proposal is then put torward to the re-vision component which tries to anticipate reader trouhle.To do this, it uses a simple user model, which employsthe well known stereotype approach (Wahlster & Kobsa1989).
All concepts, lcxical entries and ZOOMs belong toone of the three categories common vocabulary, computerjargon and Macintosh specific jargon, qlle static part ofthe user lm~lcl then simply consists of three variableswhich indicate if the intended reader is expected to befiuniliar with tile respective jargon.This user models dilfem from other approachesbecause it allows tile special wdue "?"
which indicatesincomplete (you never know ~dl about he readers) orinconsistent (a text can be meant simultaneously fornovices and experts) knowledge.
From this static part ofthe u~r  model a delault value can be c~dculated which c,'mbe ovcLTidden through learning (see below).
"lkl be a bitmore exact, two wdues are calculated in a kind of "worst-cw~e-amdysis" due to the "?"
values in tile user model.In our example two Z(X)M-schemata exist for slot:slot <-> 'Anschlug'slot <-> 'Steckphttz''Anschhff~' (and tile ZOOM connecting it with slot) ismarked Macintosh, the alternative lexical entry 'Steck-platz' is marked comttlon.
So, if the user model indicatedthat Macintosh w~cabulary was yes, the revision compo-nent would judge tile wording 'Anschlug' ok and therealization COmlmnent would output"Alle Nac in tosh  Mode l le  sind mit  E INEMANSCIILUSS for Ger~te ausgestattet ,  derdie SCSI- .Schnittstel le unters tQtzt .
"B ut now consider a user model which indicates timt theknowledge of computer aml Macintosh jargon is knownto be no.
Of course, the revision component would indi-cate that the term 'Anschlug' cmmot be used.
A possiblesolution would be to generate a periphrase, i.e.
replacing'Anschluss' by 'Stcckltialz' which would be the nextchoice of the fonu planner.
This would then be acceptedby the revision component.
In some cases, however, tiffswouhl be less than perfect: (a) if the concept has repea-tedly to be verbalized in tile course of the text, (b) if themare stylistic reasons to use the first choice term (here:'Anschluss'), (c) if there are pedagogical reasons to use thefirst choice.
(a) consider a case in which the periphmse is a longish de-Iinilion.
It would be a Ixlre to replace a short term bythis dcllnition 15 times around the text.
So you do itonce and simltiy use the now learned term in the restof tim text.
(b) Cerlain texls can loose their "feel" if slripped of e.g.tile expert wycabulary of a ce~lain area.
(c) Manutds and inmxluctory texts are oftcn mc,'mt toteach tile vocabulary in addition to the concepts.
Inthis ease it would be nonsense to replace the to-be-taught vocabulary by e~tsier "terms".321All these conditions can only be determined by thecontent planner (demonstrating the need for an interactionbetween form planner and content planner); in the system,the form planner asks the content planner, which worksas an oracle, i.e.
gives the correct answers (by forwardingthe questions to the human operator).
If one of theconditions holds, it would be unwise to formulate aperiphrase.
The next choice of the form planner wouldthen be to ask the content planner to completely replanthis part of the text, namely to include a new sentencedef'ming the problematic term.
The system output lookslike this:ANSCHLUSS BEDEUTET STECKPLATZ.
Al leMac in tosh  Mode l le  s ind mit  E INEM AN-SCHLUSS f~r Ger&te  ausgestattet ,  derdie SCS I -Schn i t t s te l le  unterst~tzt .Even this solution doesn't work in some cases and that iswhere paraphrases come into play.
If stylistic variation isnecessary or if the problematic term is embedded in thedefinition of still another term it is the right place to usea paraphrase:Al le Mac in tosh  Mode l le  s ind mit E INEMANSCHLUSS D.H. E INEM STECKPLATZ f~rGer&te  ausgestattet ,  der die SCSI-Schn i t t s te l le  unterst~tzt .6.2 A second exampleJust another path may lead to the generation of para-phrases for an unknown term, as the next example willshow:(6) "Mit der MR~-  dem Ger~it zum Zeigen und Klicken -werden die meisten Macintosh Funktionen aktivicrt.
"\[With the mouse - the device for pointing and clicking- most Macintosh fimctions am activated\]Fig.
2 shows the part of the conceptual network under-lying this example:Fig.
2: the concept mouset.Instr forThe term 'Maus' is classified computer jargon and maynot be known to the user.
The replacement of the term bya definition (no synonym is available) yields the danger ofencouraging false conversational implicatures by thereader, cf.
(Reiter 90).
Consider auser model wherecomputer and Mac jargon are indicated as "?".
A worstcase analysis by the revision component would show thatthe use of 'Mans' is inappropriate because some noviceswouldn't know the term, but that the pcriphrase 'Gerfitzum Zeigen (und Klicken)' is inappropriate either, becausesome experts will know the tenn 'Mans' and concludefrom its absence that some other pointing device, but notthe mouse, was meant.
2 So, a paraphra~ would again bethe best solution.
The system thus generates:Mit  DER MAUS D.H. DEM GERAET DESCOMPUTERSYSTEMS ZUM ZE IGEN werden diemeis ten  Mac in tosh  Funkt ionen  akt i -viert.11ere the paraphrase is a definition of the form per genusproximum et differentia specifica which results from partof the systems' concept net shown in figure 2.
The sy-stem is capable of generating two other forms of definiti-ons (paraphrases), definition by antonymy and by enume-ration.6.3 Detect ion  and resolution of arnhigui tyUp to now, only the problem type of unknown words hasbeen discussed.
Due to lack of space only one more pro-blem type which leads to the generation of paraphr,'tsescan be discussed, n;unely the problem of ambiguouswords.
This problem type has since long been discussedin the area of NL understanding.
Techniques for its solu-tion include the use of spreading-activation mechanismsworkiug on conceptual networks, cf.
(llirst 1987).
Thiscan now be used for the purpose of problem anticipation.We just try to disambiguate rms and interest ourself inthe c,xses in which it fails: these are candidates for para-phrase generation.
Cf.
the following ex,'unple from thecorpus:(7) "l)as aktive Fenstcr stcht im Vordergrund\[,\] alsoyor allen anderen ee~l'flleten Fenstcrn.
"\[llm active window stands iu the foreground, that is,in front of all other open windows\]1 lere, for beginners two readings of 'ira Vordergrund' ,-Irepossible: a literati (this is file correct reading) ,and a meta-phorical (in the sense of "important, o be regarded")which are equally propable.
The revision componentcomes to this conclusiou by conducling a worst case ana-lysis using the concept net, an activation-spreading ai o-rithm and the user model.
Only Ihose concepts and linksthat are known to at reader may forwmd energy, so in tilecase of "?"
values in the user model, both alternativeshave to be tested (hence the term "worst case anaysis").
Ifcomparable quantities of the activalion energy inducedinto the net by the liuguistic ontext find their way toboth (or more) readings (concepts) of the ,'unbiguousterms it is concluded (and then indicated to tile lbrmplanner by the revision compo,mnt) hat the ambiguitymight not be resolved by the reader.
Then, a paraphrasecould eventually (in a process imilar to that describedabove) be generated, efining the correct reading.
See(Lenke, in preparation) for derails of the spreading-acti-wttion mechanism used.2 cf.
Reiter's (1990) "dangerous fish" vs. "shark"example.3226.4 Two more features of the systemThese can only be discussed brietly.
See (I.enkc, inpreparation) 1or details.?
Paraphrases of the aspoctualization type (see above,section 5) can ,also be generated, llere, only one of thedefining elements of a concept, either the superclass(genus plx)xhnum) or one of the roles (differentiae) isverbalized.
At the moment, this kind of paraphrase isonly generated when requested by the content planner; inthe future, it will be necessary to model the anticipationof inference processes based on relcvmlcc by the readerto correctly predict he need for such paraphrases.
Anexmnple from the corpus, the mtderlying concept netand the equiwdeut produced by the system ,are shownbelow.
(8) Durch das Klicken werden die Objekte akti-viert, d.h., sic werden nun sd~warz (?~!
?~anderen Farbe) dargestellt und somit hervor~ehobcn.\[Caused by the clicking the objects are activated, thatis, printed in black (or another colour) and so high-lightedlh.~.. ~-k~- -~_  ~______~ b~qtt% )Fig.
3: the concept actiwtteDurch  das K l i cken  werden d ie  Ob jekteAKT IV IERT D.H.  SCHWARZ DARGESTELLT  .?
if a p,-u'aphrase for ,an unknown term has been generated,it can be concluded tlmt the reader now knows this temtqlais is modelled by an active component of the usermodel which overrides the default values computed bythe static component decribed above.
So, only for thetkst (or first ,and second) appe~ucnce ofa term a para-phrase is generated.
"ll~cre:dter the term is simply used.This nicely mimics the obserwitions made in naturallyoccurring texts.7.
IMPLEMENTATION DETAII ,SThe system is implemented in an object-oriented pro-gramming language and runs on Macintosh computers.
Itcont~dns a conceptual network similar to KL-ONE, con-sisting of approx.
130 concepts ,'rod 65 roles.
Its lexiconconsists of 70 ZOOM schemata and 50 lexieal entries.8.
FUTURE WORKSome possibilites for future work have ~dready been indi-cated in the text, most notably the embedding of the pro-cedures descrilx-.d into a full-fledged NL-system.
Theapproach described could a l~ be transferred to oilier kindsof possible reader problems as enumerated in section 5.Since these are the problem areas of NL-undefstanding,algorithms exist which try to solve the understandingproblems posed by these language features.
These couldbe used to predict f~filure (as w,'ts demonstrated above forthe actiw~tion-spreading mechanisms).9.
RI~FERENCI~SGabriel, R.P.
(1988).
Deliberate Writing.
In: McDonald& Bole F.ds.
Natural Language Generation Systems.pp.
1-46.Goldman, N.M. (1975) Conceptual Generation.
Ill: R.C.Sclmnk 1.21.
Conceptual Information Processing.Hayes, J. R. & L. S. Flower (1980).
Identifying theOrganization of Writing lhocesses, lu 1 ,W. Gregg &E.R.
Steinberg Eds.
Cognitive t'rocesses in Writing.pp.
3 - 30.tlirst, (;.
(1987) Semantic interpretation and theResolution of Ambiguity.lloracek, II.
(1990).
The Architecture of a GenerationComponent in a Complete NL Dialogue System.
In1)ale, Mellish, Zoek Eds.
Current Research inNatural Language Generation.
pp.
193-227.Iordanskaja, L., R. Kittredge & AI.
Polgut3re (lt~)l).l.exical Selection and l'araphm~ in a Meaning-Text(;eneration Model.
In Paris, Swmlout, Mann Fxls.Natural Language Generation in AI and CL.Jameson, A.& W.WMdster (1982).
User Modeling inAnaphora Generation: FAlipsis and l)efinite1)escription In: Proc.
of ECAI 82. pp.
222-227,McKcown, K. R. (1979) "Paraphrasing Using Given andNew Infommtion in a Question-Answer System", inProc.
of the 7th Confereuce of the ACL, La Jolla,1979, pp.
67 - 72.Lcuke, N. (in prep.).
Paraphrascn - L6sungen f/Jrantizipie~ae I.,cseq~robleme Ix~i tier automatischcnTextgenerierung.
l)issertation, Univ.
of Duisburg.Levelt, W. (1989).
Speaking.
l:rom Intention toArticulation.Mel'cnk, 1.
A.. Meaning-Text M~?lcls (1982): A RecentTrend iu Soviet Linguistics.
Ann.
Rev.Anthropology 10:27-62.Mcteer, M. & V. Shaked (1988).
Slrategies h>r Effectivel~araphrasing.
Proc.
of Coling '88.
pp.
431 -436.Nohm, R. (1970).
Foundations for an Adequate Criterionof l~araphntse.Rotter, E. (1990).
Generating Descriptions that Exploit aUser's I)omain Knowledge.
Iu l)~de, Mellish, ZockEds.
Current Research in Natttral LanguageGeneration.
pp.
257 - 285Riuglc, M. II.
& B. C. Bruce (1982).
ConversationFailure In Lehuert; Ringle Eds.
Strategies for Naturall_xmguage Processing.
pp.
203- 221.Sigurd, B.
(1987).
Mctacommcnts in Text Generation.
InG.
Kempen 1.21.
Natural xmguage Generation.
pl t.453-461.S maby, R. M. (1971).
Paraphrase Grammars.Stroustrup, B.
(1991) The C++ Progr,'unming Language.2d.
1'21.\[lngcheucr, G. (1969) i)araphmse und syntakliseheTicfcustruktur.
Folia Ling.
3. pp.
178-227.Vauglmn, M. & I).
Mcl)onald (1986).
A Model ofRevision in Natural Language Geuemtion.
Proc.
ofthe 241h Annual Meeting of the ACL.
pp.
90-96.W:dflster, W. & A. Kobsa (1989) User Models in DialogSystems.
In A. Kobsa & W. WahlsterFxls.
UserModels in Dialog Systems.
pp.
4 - 34.323
