Countability and Numberin Japanese to English Machine TranslationFrancis Bond,  Kentaro Ogura ,  Satoru IkeharaNTT  Communicat ion  Sc ience Laborator ies1-2356 Take, YokosUka-shi, K~nagawa-ken, JAPAN 238-03{bond,ogura,ikehara} @nttkb.ntt.jpAbstractThis paper presents a heuristic method thatuses information in the Japanese text alongwith knowledge of English countability andnumber stored in transfer dictionaries to de-termine the countability and number of En-glish.noun phrases.
Incorporating this methodinto the machine translation system ALTJ/E,helped tO raise the percentage ofnoun phrasesgenerated with correct use of articles and num-ber from 65% to 73%.1 IntroductionCorrectly determining number is a difficultproblem when translating from Japanese toEnglish.
This is because in Japanese, nounphrases are not normally marked with respectto number.
Japanese nouns have no equivalentto the English singular and plural forms andverbs do not inflect to agree with the numberof the subject (Kuno 1973).
In addition, thereis no grammatical marking of countability, tIn order to generate English correctly, itis necessary to know whether a given nounphrase is countable or uncountable and, ifcountable, whether it is singular or plural.Deciding this is a problem even for humanstranslating from Japanese to English, but theyhave their own knowledge of both languagest Japanese does not have obligatory plural mor-phemes.
Plurality can be marked but only rarely is, forexample by adding asuffix such as tachi "and others"(this can normally only be used with people or mfimals).tO draw on.
A machine translation systemneeds to have this knowledge codilied in someway.
As generating articles and number is onlyimportant when the rest of the sentence hasbeen correctly generated, them has not been alot of research devoted to it.
Recently, Murataand Nagao (1993) have proposed a methodof determining the referentiality property andnumber of nouns in Japanese sentences formachine translation into English, but tim re-search has not yet been extended to includethe actual English generation.This paper describes a method that extractsinformation relevant to countability and num-ber from the Japanese text and combines itwith knowledge about countability and num-ber in English.
First countability in Englishis discussed at the noun phrase and then thenoun level.
As a noun phrase's countability inEnglish is affected by its referential property(generic, referential or ascriptive) we presenta method of determining the referential use ofJapanese noun phrases.
Next the process ofactually determining noun phrase countabilityand number is described.
This is followedby some examples of sentences translated bythe proposed method and a discussion of theresults.The processing described in this paper hasbeen implemented in NTI" CommunicationScience Laboratories' experimental machinetranslation system ALTJ /E  (\[kehara et al1991).
Along with new processing for thegeneration of articles, wifich is not discussedin detail in this paper, it improved the percent-32age of noun phrases with correctly generateddetemfiners and number flom 65% to 73%.2 Countability2.1 Noun Phrase Countab i l i tyWe adopt the definition of countability inEnglish given in Allan (1980:541-3).
Acountable noun phrase is defined as follows:I If the head constituent of an NP falls withinthe scope ofa denumerator it is countable.I I  If the head constituent of an NP is plural itis countable.Where "the phrase 'fiflls within tile scope\[or domain\] of a denumerator' means 'is de-numerated' by it; i.e tim NP reference is quan-tiffed by the denumerator as a number ofdiscrete ntities.
"Not all nouns in English can become thehead of a countable noun phrase.
In particu-lar, noun phrases whose heads fall within thescope of a denumerator ('denumerated' nounphrases) must be headed by a noun that hasboth singular and plural forms.
Nouns thatdo not have both forms, like equipment orscissors, require a classifier to be used.
Theclassifier becomes the head of a countablenoun phrase with the original noun attachedas the complement of a prepositional phraseheaded by of.. a pair of scissors, a piece oJ"equipment.Whether a noun can be used to head acountable noun plu'ase or not depends bothon how it is interpreted, and on its inherentcountability preference.
Noun countabilitypreferences are discussed ill the next section.2.2 Noun Countab i l i ty  P re ferencesA noun's countability preference determineshow it will behave in different environments.We classify nouns into seven countabilitypreferences, live major and two minor, asdescribed below.The two most basic types are 'fully cotmt-able' and 'uncountable'.
Fully countablenouns, such as knife have both singular andplural forms, and cannot be used with deter-miuers such as mttclt .
2 Uncotmtable nouns,such as Jiirniture, have no plural form, andcan be used with much.Between these two extremes there are avast number of nouns, such as cake, that canbe used in both countable and uncountablenoun phrases.
They have both singular andplural forms, and can also be used with much.Whether such nouns will be used countably oruncountably depends on whether their referentis being thought of as made up of discrete unitsor not.
As it is not always possible to explicitlydetermine this when translating from Japaneseto English, we divide these nouns into twog,'oups: 'strongly countable', those that aremore often used to refer to discrete entities,such as cake, and 'weakly countable', thosethat are more often used to refer to unboundedreferents, such as beer.The last major type of countability prefer-ence is 'phlralia tanta': nouns that only have aphn'al form, such as scissors.
They can neitherbe denumerated nor modilied by much.
Wefurther subdivide pluralia tanta into two types,those that can use the classifier pair to be de~numerated, such as a pair of scissors and thosethat can't, such as clothes.
'pair'  pluralia tantahave a singular lorm when used as modifiers(a scissor movement).
Pluralia tanta such asclothes, use the plural form even as modifiers(a clothes horse), and need a countable wordof similar meaning to be substituted when theyare denumerated: a garment, a suit .
.
.
.
.The two minor types are subsets of flfllycountable and uncountable nouns respec-tively.
Unless explicitly indicated, they willbe treated the same as their supersets.
'Col-lective' nouns share all the properties of fullycountable nouns, in addition they can havesingular or plural verb agreement with thesingular form of tile noun: The governmenthas/trove decided.
'Semi-countable' nounsshare the properties of uncountable nouns, ex-cept that they can be modiffed irectly by alas;for example a knowledge l of.lapanese\].I2The determiners much, 'little, a little, less andovermuch, can all be used for this test33Table 1: Lexical information for nounsNoun Countability Default DefaultEnglish Japanese Preference Number Classifier-~ i fe  houchounoodles mengroup murecake ke-kibeer bi-rufurniture kaguknowledge chishikiscissors hasamiclothes ifukuFULLY COUNTABLF~ SINGULAR - -FULLY COUNTABLE PLURAL - -(COLLECTIVE) SINGULAR - -STRONGLY COUNTABLE SINGULAR - -WEAKLY COUNTABLE SINGULAR - -UNCOUNTABLE SINGUI,AR piece(SEMI-COUNq<ABLE) SINGULAR piecePLURAL IA  TANTUM PLURAL pairPLURAL IA  TANTUM PLURAL - -Examples of the information about count-ability and number stored in the Japanese toEnglish noun transfer dictionary are given intable 1.
The information about noun count-ability preferences cannot Joe found in stan-dard dictionaries and must Ix: entered by anEnglish native speaker.
Some tests to helpdetermine a given noun's countability prefer-ences are described in Bond and Ogura (1993),which discusses the use of noun countabilitypreferences in Japanese to English machinetranslation.3 Determination of NP Ref-erentialityThe first stage in generating the count-ability and number of a translated Englishnoun phrase is to determine its referentiality.We distinguish three kinds of referentiality:'generic', referential' and 'ascriptive'.We call noun phrases used to make generalstatements about a class generic; for exampleMammoths are extinct.
The way generic nounphrases are expressed in English is describedin Section 3.1.
Referential noun phrases areones that refer to some specific referent; forexample Two dogs chase .a cat.
Their num-ber and countability are ideally determined bythe properties of the referent.
Ascriptive nounphrases are used to ascribe a property to some-thing; for example I lathi is an elephant.
Theynormally have the same number and count-ability as the noun phrase whose propertythey are describing.2.3.if restrictively modilied then 'referential'my book, the man who came to dinnerif subject of extinct, evolve ... 'generic'Mammoths are extinctif the semantic ategory of the subject of acopula is a daughter of the semantic ate-gory of the object hen 'generic'Mammoths are animalsat, Jbr .
.
.then 4. if modified hy aimed' generic'' A magazine for women5.
if object of l ike.
.
,  then 'generic'I like cake6.
if complement ofa copula then 'ascriptive'N77' is a telephone company7.
if appositive then 'ascriptive'NT/, a telephone company ...8. default 'referential'Figure 1: Determination f NP refemntialityThe process of determining the referential-ity of a noun phrase is shown in Figure 1.The tests are processed in the order shown.As far as possible, simple criteria that can beimplemented using the dictionary have beenchosen.
For example, Test 4"  if a NP is mod-ilied by aimed at , fo r .
.
,  then it is 'generic'" is34applied as part of translating NPl-muke into"for NPI".
The transfer dictionary includesthe information that in this case, NPI shouldbe generic.
"li~sts 2 a3 show two more heuristic methodsfor determining whether a noun phrase hasgeneric reference.
In Test 2, if the predicateis marked in the dictionary as one that onlyapplies to classes as a whole, such as evolveor be extinct, then the sentence is taken tobe generic.
In "lest 3, AUI',I/I,:'s semantichierarchy is used to test whether a sentence isgeneric or not.
For example in Mamnloths areanimals, mammoth as the semantic ategoryANIMAL so the sentence is judged to be statinga fact true of all mannnoths and is thus generic.3.1 Gener ic  i i oun  phrasesA generic noun phrase (with a countable headnoun) can generally be expressed in threeways (Huddleston 1984).
We call these GEN'a',  where the noun phrase is indefinite: Amammoth is a mammal; GEN 'the', where thenoun phrase is definite: The mammoth is amammal; and GEN ~/5, where there is no arti-cle: Mammoths are mammals.
Uncountablenouns and pluralia tanta can only he expressedby GEN </~ (eg: Furniture is expensive).
Theycannot take GEN 'a'  because they cannot bemoditied by a.
They do not take GEN 'the',because then the noun phrase woukl normallybe interpreted as having detinite reference.Nouns that can be either countable or un-countable also only take GEN (,: Cake isdelicious/Cakes are delicious.
These combi-nations are shown in Table 2, noun phrasesthat can not be used to show generic referenceare marked *.Table 2: Genericness and CountahilityCountableit mammof l l\] ' the ' |  the mammothI ...4'.
/ ,  ,mmott,Noun Countability PreferenceBoth Uncounlable*a cake*the cakecake/cakes*a furniture*the furniturefurnitureThe use all three kinds of generic nounphrases is not acceptable in some cofltexts, forexample * a mammoth evolved.
Sometimes anoun phrase can be ambiguous, for example 1like the elel~hant, where the speaker could likea particular elephant, or all elephants.Because the use of GEN (~ is acceptablein all Contexts, AI,T-J/E generates all genericnoun phrases as such, that is as bare nounphrases.
The number of the noun phrase isthen determined by the countability preferenceof the noun phrase heading it.
Fully countablenouns and pluralia tanta will be plural, allothers are singular.4 Determination of NPCountability and NumberThe following discussion deals only with ref-erential and ascriptive noun phrases as genericnoun phrases were discussed in Section 3.1,The delinilious of noun phrase countabilitygiven in Section 2, while useful for analyzingEnglish, are not suf\[icient for translating fl'omJapanese to English.
This is hecause in manycases it is impossible to tell fl'om the Japaneseform or syntactic shape whether a translatednoun phrase will fall within the scope of adenumerator not.
Japanese has no equiva-lent to a/an and does not distinguish betweencountable and uncountable quantifiers suchas many/much and little/J'ew.
Therefore todeternfine countability and generate numberwe need to use a combination of iuformatioufrom the Japanese original sentence, and de-\['ault itflBrmation from the Japanese to EnglishIransfer dictionary.
As much as possible, de-tailed intbrmation is entered in the lransierdictionaries to allow the translation processitself to be made simple.The process of determining a noun phrase'scountability and ntnnl)er is shown in Figure 2.The process is carried out during the transferstage so information is available from boththe .lapanese original and the selected Englishtranslation.To make the task of determining countabil~ity and number simpler,' we deline combina-tions of dil'fereut countabilities for nouns with35Table 3: Noun Phrase Countability and NumberNoun TypeFully CountableStrongly CountableWeakly CountableUncountablePluralia TantumDenumeratedSingular t Plural a dog two clogsa cakea beera piece of informationa pair of scissorstwo cakestwo beerstwo pieces of informationtwo pairs of scissorsMassCotmtable Uncountabledogscakesbeerin formationscissors(logscakebeerin format ionscissors1.2..4..if the Japanese is explicitly plural thencountable and pluraldetermine according to determinerone dog, all dogsdetermine according to classifiera slice of cake, a pile of cakesdetermine according to complementschools all over the countryaseriptive NPs match their subjectsA computer is a piece of equipment6.
determine according to verbI gather flowers7.
use default value(a) uncountable, weakly countable be-come:uncountable and singular(b) pluralia tanta become:countable and plural(c) countable and strongly countable be-come:countable and singular or pluralaccording to the dictionary defaultFigure 2: Determination of English noun phraseCountability mid Numberdifferent countability preferences that we canuse in the dictionaries.
The effects of the fourmost common types on the five major nouncountability preferences are shown in Table 3.Noun phrases modi fled by Japanese/Englishpairs that are translated as denumerators wecall denumerated.
For example a noun mod-ified by onoono-no "each" is denumerated -singular, while one modilied by ryouhou-no"both" is denumerated - plural.
Uncountableand pluralia tantum nouns in denumerated en-vironments are translated as the prepositionalcomplement of a classifier.
A default classilieris stored stored in the dictionary for uncount-able nouns and pluralia tanta.
Ascriptive nounphrases whose subject is countable will alsobe denumerated.The two 'mass '3 environments shown in Ta-ble 3 are used to show the countability of nounsthat can be either countable or uncountable.Weakly countable nouns will only be count-able if used with a denumerator.
Stronglycountable nouns will be countable and pluralin such mass - countable nvironments as timobject of collect (vt): I collect cakes, and un-countable and singular in mass -uncountableenviromnenls uch as I ate too much cake.In fact, both I collect cake and I ate toomany cakes are possible.
As Japanese doesnot distinguish between the two the systemmust make the best choice it can, in the sameway  a human translator would have to.
Therules have been implemented to generate thetranslation that has the widest application, forexample generating I ale too much cake, whichis true whether the speaker only ate part or all3We called these nvironments 'mass' because theyboth can be used to show a mass or unboundedinterpretation.36of one cake or if they ate many cakes, ratherthan I ate too many cakes which is only true ifthe speaker ate many cakes,Sometimes the choice of the English trans-lation of a modifier will depend on the count-ability of the noun phrase.
For example,kazukazu-no and takusan-no can all be trans-lated as "many".
kazukazu-no implies that it'smodificant is made up of discrete entities, sothe noun phrase it modifies should be trans-lated as denumerated  - plural, takusan-nodoes not carry this nuance so ALT-J/E willtranslate a noun phrase modified by it as mass- uncountable, and takusan-no as many il' thehead is countable and much otherwise.Rules that translate the nouns with differ-ent noun countability preferences into othercombinations of countable and uncountableare also possible.
For example, sometimeseven fully countable nouns can be used irauncountable noun phrases.
If an elephant isreferred to not as an individual elephant but itsa source of meat, tben it will be expressed inan uncountable noun phrase: I ale a slice qfelephant.
To generate this the following rule isused: "nouns quantilied with the classilier kire"slice" will be generated as tile prepositionalcomplement of slice, they will be singularwith no ,article unless they are pluralia tanta,when they will be plural with no article".Note that countable indefinite singular nounphrases without a determiner will have a/angenerated.
Countable indelinite plural nounphrases and uncountable noun phrases mayhave some generated; a full discussion of thisis outside the scope of this article.5 Experimental ResultsTiffs processing described above has been im-plemented in ALT-J/E.
It was tested, togetherwith new processing to generate articles, ona specially constructed set of test sentences,and on a collection of newspaper articles.
Theresults are summarized in Table 4.In the newspaper articles tested, there werean average of 7.0 noun phrases in each sen-tence.
For a sentence to be judged as correct%ble 4: Correct Generation of Articles andNumberTest Sentences \[~ewspal)er ArticlesNPs \[Sentences-Vl;qPs Sentences~7 I - -  90o/'o 173% 12~y ~ _  46?/,, 165% 5%all the uoun phrases nmst be correct.
The in-troduction of the proposed method improvedthe percentage of correct sentences from 5%to 12%.Some examples of translations before andafter tile introduction of the new processingare given below.
The translations beforethe proposed processing was implemented aremarked O1.D, the translations produced byAI;I'-J/I,; using the proposed t)rocessing aremarked NEW.
(1) taitei-no kodomo-ha ototm-nimost child adultllill'UbecomeOI.D: "Most children becomean adult"NEW: "Most children become adults"In (1), the noun phrase beaded by otona"adult" is judged to be prescriptive, as it is tilecomplement of tile coptflar narlt "become".Therefore the proposed method translates itwith the same number as the subject.
(2) manmo.~u-ha zetumetu-shitamammoth died-outOLI): "A mammoth died out"NEW: "Manamoths died out"zetumettt "die out", is entered in the lexiconas a verb whose subject must be generic.manmosu "mammoth" is fully countable sothe gene,ic noun phrase is translated as a bareplural.
(3) tolil 3-chou, ha.~ami l-chou,tofu =3, scissors 1,i houchou 2-chou~Ea ruknife 2 is3738OLD: "There are 3 piece tofu,1 scissors,and 2 knives"NEW: "There are 3 pieces oftofu,1 pairof scissors and 2 knives"The old version recognizes that a denumer-ated noun phrase headed by ,an uncountablenoun tofu requires a classifier but does notgenerate the correct structure neither does itgenerate a classifier for the pluralia tanta scis-sors.
The version using the proposed methoddoes.
(4) sore-ha dougu dathat equipment isOLD: "That is equipment"NEW: "That is a piece of equipment"As the subject of the copula that is countableit's complement is judged to be denumeratedby the proposed method.
As the complementis headed by an uncountable noun it must beembedded in the prepositional complement ofa classifier.There are three main problems till remain-ing.
The first is that currently the rules fordetermining the noun phrase referentiality areinsufficiently fine.
We estimate that if refer-entiality could be determined 100% correctlythen the percentage ofnoun phrases with cor-rectly generated articles and number couldbe improved to 96% in the test set we stud-ied.
The remaining 4% require knowledgefrom outside the sentence being translated.The biggest problem is noun phrases requir-ing world knowledge that cannot be expressedas a dictionary default.
These noun phrasescannot be generated correctly by the purelyheuristic methods proposed here.
The lastproblem is noun phrases whose countabilityand number can be deduced flom informa-tion in other sentences.
We would like toextend our method to use this information inthe future.6 ConclusionThe quality of the English in a Japanese toEnglish Machine Translation system can beimproved by the method proposed in this pa-per.
This method uses the information avail-able in the original Japanese sentence alongwith information about English countability atboth the noun phrase and noun level that canbe stored in Japanese to English transfer dic-tionaries.
Incorporating this method into themachine translation system ALT-J/E helpedto improve the percentage of noun phraseswith correctly generated articles and nmnberfrom 65% to 73%.ReferencesAllan, K. (1980).
Nouns and countability.Language 56.541-67.Bond, F., and K. Ogura.
(1993).
Determina-tion of whether an English noun phraseis Countable or not using 6 levels of lex-ical countability (in Japanese).
In 46thTransactions of the Information Process-ing Society of Japan, 3:107-108.Huddleston, R. (1984).
Introduction to theGrammar of English.
Cambridge text-books in linguistics.
Cambridge: Cam-bridge University Press.lkehara, S., S. Shirai, A. Yokoo, and1t.
Nakaiwa.
(1991).
Toward an MTSystem without Pre-Editing - Effects ofNew Methods in ALT-J/E -.
In Proceed-ings o/'MT' Summit III, 101-106.Kuno, S. (1973).
The Structure of theJapanese Language.
Cambrige, Mas-sachusetts, and London, England: MITPress.Murata, M., and M. Nagao.
(1993).
Determbnation of referential property and numberof nouus in Japanese sentences for ma-chine translation i to English.
In 7'hefifthinternational confef'ence on Theoreticaland Methodological Issues in Machine7)'anslation, 218-25.
