Machine TranslationIMPROVEMENT IN CUSTOMIZABI I , ITY  US ING TRANSI~ATION TEMPLATESSatosh i  K INOSHITA,  Ak i ra  KUMANO,  l t idek i  I l lRAKAWAR & D Center ,  Tosh iba  Corporat ion .Abst rac tThis paper outlines customization of a machinetranslation system using translation templates, whichenable usm~ to represent the bilingual knowledgeneeded for complex translation.
To evaluate theireffectiveness, we analyzed a bilingual text to estimatetire improvement in eustomizability.
The resultshows that about 60% of mistranslated sentences canbe translated as nrodel translations by combining theproposed fra,nework with the conventionalcustomizing functions.1.
In t roduct ionThe ability of natural language processing (NI.P)systems is limited due to the knowledge they have,not their framework.
This is reflected by recentintensive research on acquisition of linguisticknowledge from a corpus\[2\]\[6\]\[91.Machine translation (MT) systems are noexception.
Conrpared with monolingual knowledge,knowledge needed for translation is difficult tocollect.
Knowledge acquisition from a bilingual orparallel corpus is considered to be a promising way toreduce tile painstaking task\[l \]\[10\].Without customization, no general-purpose MTsystem can output satisfactory translations; thereforeit is essential to tune the system by developing a user-oriented lexicon or by registering al)propriate targetwords.The kind of customization eeded depends on howthe system is used.
If a user translates a document oskim it, he can judge the ability of his MT system bysemantic invariance: what percentage of the content ofthe source text is preserved in its t,anslation.
If, ontile other hand, he requires translation o1" publicationqtmlity, semantically correct tnmslation is notsufficient; that is, translations hould be wcllq'ormedso as to conform to a documcntational style?
Tominimize post-editing, more elaborate customizingfunctions than in the former ease are required.In this paper, we will describe a customizingframework which uses 'translation templates.'
Thisenables users to represent bilingual knowledge forcomplex translation where a drastic change inlingt, istic structures occu,s to generate naturaltranslations.
Then we will discuss the effectivenessof this framework by comparing it witl~ thepractically used customizing functions based on theanalysis of a bilingual text?2.
Mach ine  Trans la t ion  Us ing  Trans la t ionTemplates2.1 A im of T rans la t ion  TemplatesIf a user wants publication-quality translations,stylistic wcll-fonnedness i as important as semanticinvariance.
Consider translating the Japanese sentence(1).
Although its Iranslation (2), which is the resultof our current MT system, is correct, (3) sounds morenatural than (2); in (.3), the verb phrase "using thesedetectors" is nominalized to function as a subject torepresent tile cause of the 'reduce' event.
If tire userprefelx (3) to (2) as a translation of (1), (2) needs tobe post-edited.
(1) korera-no kenshutsuki-wo tsukau kotoniyorithese detectors-OP;J use bykakaku-ga teigen-shitaprice-SUBJ reduce-PAST(2) The price dropped by using these deteetm,'s.
(3) Use of these detectors reduced the price.As the above example illustrates, when source andtarget languages have a significant difference in theirlinguistic features, linguistic structures of sourcesentences are drastically changed to generate naturaltranslations.
In this paper, we will call translationwhich requires complex structural changes 'complextrallslalion.
'This type of knowledge is stored in all MTsystems, but hlsuJ'ficiently.
Therefore, a frameworkfor ct, slomizing complex translation should beincorporated into the system.
For this purlmse, wehave introduced a framework which uses 'translationtemplates' to represent such knowledge.Using translation templates, a user can customizehis MT system to deal with complex translationwithout any knowledge on the system's transkltionprocess because translation templates are created oncethe user specifics corresponding expressions in a source?
\] .sentence and its expected trans\]atlon.2.52.2 Trans la t ion  TemplatesA 'translation template' contains at least a pair ofpatterns, namely 'source' and 'target' patterns, each ofwhich consists of 'constants' and 'variables.'
A sourcepattern (SP) is a template to be compared with asource sentence, while a target pattern (TP) is used togenerate a target sentence.Several reports on machine translation usingtranslation templates uggest that they are useful fortranslating fixed expressions\[4\]\[7\]\[8\].
Our translationtemplate is more expressive in the following points:?
More parts of speech can be specified for variables.?
Conditions on translating expressions matchedwith variables can be specified.These points will be explained below.Fig.
1 shows an example of a translatkmtemplate.
'$1' and '$2', which appear in both thesource and target patterns, are variables, and theremaining elements are constants.
All constants inthe source pattern should appear in a source sentence inthe same order.
Strings which match with variablesshould satisfy parts of speech designated in the 'sourcecondition.'
In this example, the strings should beanalyzed as 'rip' (noun phrases).The 'part of speech(POS)' of a template representsa syntactic ategory of a string matched with a sourcepattern.
Currently, 'sentence' and 'sentence modifier'can be specified.The 'source condition(SCND)' representsconditions on variables in the 'source pattern.'
Thegrammatical categories of variables currently in useare noun, noun phrase, number, clause and verbphrase.
A string matched with a variable should beparsed as the specified category.The 'target condition(TCND)' representsconditions on variables in tile 'target pattern.'
Twotypes are available: 'attribute' and 'relation.
'Attributes specify information on one variable.
Forexample, variables for nouns can be specified as havinga 'default article' and a 'default number' to be used ifthere are no explicit clues to determine the article andthe number.
Similarly, the form of verb phrases ingeneration can be specified as 'to-infinitive' or'gerund.'
Relations represent he number agreementsbetween a subject and a verb in the target pattern, forexample.Variables may appear only in tile source or targetpattern.
Variables which appear only in the sourcepattern are used to represent expressions which haverelations with another variable but disappear in thetarget sentence.
Variables which appear only in thetarget pattern are used to represent a target wordwhich is inflected by tile number agreement with tilePOS : s(wo tsukau kotoniyori) (ga teigen shita)TP : use of $I reduced $2SCND : $1 .pos=np/$2.pos=npFig.
1 Template ExamplePOSSPTPSCNDTCNDPOSSPTPSCNDTC N Ds(no settei wa) (kotoniyori okonaeru)$1 can beset by $2$1 .pos =np / $2.pos=vp$2.vpgcnd=ING(a) Template with a variable for verb phrase: s(no jokyo wa) (niyori okonawareru ): $1 $3 eliminated by $2: $1 .pos=np / $2.pos=np: $3.tw=be / s_v(1,3)(b) Template with a variable appearing only ina target patternFig.
2 Template  Examplescontents of other variables.Fig.
2 shows other examples of translationtemplates.
Fig.
2(a) shows a template which has avariable for a verb phrase.
This template is created byreferring to sentence (4) and its model translation (5)The target condition specifies that a verb phrase tobe matched with the wniable '$2' is generated as agerund.
(4) jokyoshuuhasuu-no settei-wa,'frequency to be eliminated'-of setting-TOPtorimakondensa-de C-no atai-wotrimmer capacitor-lNST C-of value-OBJtyousei-suru kotoniyori okonaeru.adjust by can be done(5) The frequency to be eliminated can be set byadjusting tile value of C by a trimmer capacitor.The introduction of variables which match withverb phrases improves the flexibility of translationtemplates.
Without these variables, we must createrestricted source patterns, in which the word order ofpostpositional phrases like "-de" and "-wo" is fixed.Fig.
2(b) shows a template which has a variableappearing only in the target pattern.
Tiffs template iscreated by referring to sentences (6) and (7) below.The target word (tw) of variable '$3' is specified as'be' and its surface form is determined according tothe 'numbe," feature of the exp~ession of variable '$1 '26(6) kyariaseibun-no jokyo-wa,carrier component-of elimination-TOPT-gata roopasufiruta-niyori okonawareru.T-type low-pass filter-by be done(7) The carrier component is eliminated by T-typelow-pass filters.2.3 Translat ion ProcessFig.
3 shows a conceptual flow of translationprocess using translation templates.
(The actualimplementation is different from the flow.)
Fil.
'st,the 'translation template dictionary' is searched forapplicable templates.
If no applicable template isfound, the source sentence is translated using theconventional translation module; if found, stringsmatched with variables are parsed and translated.Finally, translations of variables are embedded intothe target pattern.This process is implemented in the conventiom, Itranslation module of our transfer-based MTsystem\[3\].
(a) Morphological AnalysisTile morphological analyzer first constructs aword lattice for an input sentence by referring to theword dictionaries and the Japanese morphologicalgrammar, and then produces a sequence of words fromthe lattice until the syntactic analyzer parses itsnccessfully.Constants in tile source pattern of translationtemplates are stored in the 'template constantdictionary' used in the first phase of morphologicalanalysis to create the word lattice.
Fig.
4 shows asimplified example of a word lattice for sentence (1).Constants of transhltion templates in a wordlattice should be selected if and only i\[" all theconstants of a particuk~r template are selectedsimultaneously to form a valid sequence of words.
InFig.
4, we can obtain two valid word sequences frolnthe word lattice.The present implementation permits one al3plicabletemplate for each source sentence.
If more than onetemplates are applicable, the priority for eachtemplate is calculated based o,i the total length ofconstants and tile scope of the source sentence coveredby the template, and a word seqt,ence is produced inthe order of their priorities.
(b) Syntactic AnalysisWhen a translation template is applicable, thesyntactic analyzer plays two roles.
First is toanalyze part of the word sequeuce which should bematched with variables of the template.
Words in theword sequence, except \['or template constants, shouldbe parsed as syntactic categories specified in eachSource.
selltel lce {I Tomplate Sea ch I1No~ YesTranslat ion ofVar iables\[Embedding into TP 1OutputFig.
3 Translat ion ProcessConvent iona l  MTvariable.
The second role is to derive a syntacticstructure for the sentence.
(c) TransFer and (;enerationIn the transfer phase, a translation template istransfornmd into a lexical transfer rule in theconventional form, so that the new matching patternmatches with the struelure produced by tile syntacticanalyzer.
The result of applying this rule is a targetstructure;* its direct constitt, ents are given tile wordorder and ready to output as a target sentence.3.
Criteria for Using Translat ion TemplatesIn principle, all translation can be described bytranslation templates.
That is, users can make alranslalion template by substituting correspondingexpressions in source and target sentences wilhvariables.
The question is the appropriateness ofte m plates.The fi~.
'st criterion is its 'applicability.'
ill thefollowing cases, translation templates areinal)propriate because the sonrce pattern is too specificto be applied to other sentences.
(C1) A source sentence is translated into two targetsentences or a compound sentence.
(C2) Two source sentences are translated into onet:,rget sentence.
(C3) A source sentence contains a parenthesis or agapping.In slJcb cases, the source pattern may contain moreconslants than that of the ordinary translationtemplates.27c_;rt.o .
.
.
.
.
--~.,--~,..q,,,i~,,;,.,'~...~'m'"'"" / (wo).
(tsukau) (koton iyor i )~  { i ' l i , l '~ .
(ga) (teigenshita)(korera) (no) (kenshutsuki) ~ ~ {'~ 5 ~- 2: if- ,~ 0 ~ (kakaku) ~ ~?
{~J~ L/c(wo tsukau kotoniyori) (ga teigenshita)Fig.
4 Example of a Word LatticeSentence (8) and its model translation (9) show anexample of (C3), where the source sentence contains agapping.
The source pattern created from this sentencewill be of low applicability.
(8) puriampu-wa, Pl-ni 8soshi,preamplifier-TOP Pl-in 8 elementP2-ni 24soshi bunsan-sareteiruP2-in 24 element decentralize-PASSIVE(9) The preamplifiers are decentralized for 8 dementsin P1 and for 24 elements in P2.Another criterion is the 'contextual independence.
'It is often the case in Japanese-to-English translationthat a zero-pronoun in a source sentence is resolvedfrom the context and its translation equivalentappears in the target sentence.
A translation templatecreated from such translation may generate acontextually inappropriate ranslation.Note that these criteria are not absolute; templateswhich do not meet these criteria should be used if theylead to correct translation of other sentences.
Astatistical method could be introduced to objectivelydetermine the appropriateness.4, Conventional Customizing FunctionsThis section briefly describes customizingfunctions which have been adopted ill our MTsystem\[3\]\[5\].?
User-defined word dictionaryA user-defined word dictionary (or simply a userdictionary) is the basis for improving the quality ofMT output.?
Translation parametersTranslation parameters are introduced to givepreference or default interpretation in the translationprocess.
In general, all of the processing are based onthe system's linguistic knowledge, which is not opento users.
For example, users cannot change theapplication order of syntactic rules used by the parser.Therefore the system derives the same syntactic treefor a given sentence to generate one particulartranslation.
Translation parameters enable usm~ topartially control the t,'anslation process.One of the parameters used in Japanese-to-F.nglishtranslation treats subjectless sentences, which arecommon linguistic phenomena ill Japanese.
With thisparameter, users can specify the sentence type of atarget sentence (imperative or declarative) and, ifnecessary, the voice and translation equivalents for theomitted subject (personal pronouns, "it" or a user-defined string).
For example, sentence (10) istranslated into sentences (11) to (15) according to thespecified parameter vah,es.
(I0) sono botan-wo oshimasuthe button-OllJ press(11) Press tim button.
(I 2) Tile button is pressed.
(13) I press the button.
(14) It presses the bt, tton.
(15) It presses the button.
(imperative)(passive)(personal pronouns)("it")("#" as user-definedstring)?
User-defined rulesUser-defined rules are used for representingknowledge to determine an appropriate translationequivalent for a source word (or an expression) byreferring to its related words.
There are three typesof user-defined rt, les available:(R1) Rules for verbs(R2) P, ules for functional phrases(R3) Rules for conjunctional phrasesRule (R1) determines a translation equivalent of averb based on its case fillers.
A translation for afunctional phrase is determined based on its precedingnoun vnd tile verb phrase it modifies, whereas atranslation for a conjunctional phrase is based on itspreceding verb phrase and the verb phrase it modifies.Additionally, rules (R2) and (R3) can specify wheretranslation eqvivzdents for functional andcon junctional phr.
'lses are generated.Sentences (16) to (18) below show a customizationexample using a user-defined rule for a functionalphrase.
In sentence (17), which is the initial ot, tputby our system, the functional phrase "hi doukishite"is translated into a verb phrase.
Contrast this withthe customized sentence (18), in which tim phrase istranslated into the prepositional phrase "insynchronisnt with.
"(I6) kono kairo-wa shingmL-ni doukishitethis circuit-TOP signal-with synchronizeparttxll-wo hass#i-sltrltpulse-OBJ genehate28(17) This cirenit genm,ates a pulse synclu-onizing witha signal.
(18) This circuit genenltes a pulse in synchronism witha signal.User-defined rules have limitations in that theycannot represent complex structural changes.However, this is intentionally designed to preventmistranslation possibly caused by adding thesestructural rules into tile system's knowledge.Alternatively, the proposed framework has beenintroduced to represent knowledge for more complextrartslation.5.
Evaluat ion of Customizabi l i ty5.1 Out l ine  o f  Ana lys i sTo confirm tile effectiveness of translationtemplates, we analyzed a parallel text, namely aservice mant, al on an electronic eqvipment written inJapanese and its English translation, and estimated theimprovement in cvstomizability.The analysis was done as follows:(i) Translate the sot,rce sentences using the MTsystem, which is in the default state except thatundefined words are registered in tile userdictionary.
(ii) Compare the 'sentence structure' of the MToutput in (i) aqd its cmresponding sentence in tileEnglish manual, and find out sentences forcustomization.
(iii) Categorize the above sentences according to thetype of customization needed to translate theminto sentences Itaving tile same sentence structuresas the model translations.The 'sentence structure' used for judging tilenecessity of customization includes tile followinglinguistic features:?
Sentence types:declarative I imperative I othe~.'s?
Clause patterns:simple I complex \[ compound?
Case frames of a main clauseTwo different case frames are treated as the sameas long as tile difference can be resolved with auser-defined word and/or a user-defined rule forverbs.?
Voice of a main clause:active J passiveIf all of tile above are identical, tile MT output andthe model translation are considered to have the samesentence structure.
Othexwise, the MT system needsTab le  1 Rest ,  It o f  Compar i sonTranslated as Models 209(42%)Needs Customization 283(58%)Total 492Tab le  2 Resu l t  o f  C t , s tomizat ionParamete,x 21 (7%)User-defined Rules 20(7%)Templates 126(45%)Cannot Customize 116(41%)custonfization.
For example, sentences (2) and (3) aredifferent in their sentence slrt,ctures because they havedifferent case frames.
Similarly, sentences (20) and(21), which are the MT oulpnt of sentence (19) andthe model translatio,l respectively, are different intheir sentence structlnes because of their differentclause patterns and case fraules.
(19) FMbu-niwa 2real-no fureemumemori-ga ariFMunit-in 2 framememory-SUl l J  existkotonaru 2tsu-no gazou-wo kioku-dekirudifferent 2 image-OIU can memorize(20) Two frame memories are in the FM unit and itcan memorize two different images.
(21) Tim FM unit has two frame memories tlmt canstore two different i,nages.5.2 A na lys is  Resu l tWe have analyzed 492 sentences excluding titlesand figure captions.
The average sentence length was52 Kanji characters.Table I shows the overall result.
Out of 492sentences, 42% have tile same sentence structures asthe model translations, while the remaining 58% ilavedifferent sentence stnmtures and require customizationof the system.
The latter is further divided into fonrcategories according to the type of customizationneeded to improve the MT output, as shown in Table2.
By the conventional customizing functions,namely, translation parametens and user-defined rules,14% are customizable.
In addition, translationtelnplates can improve 45%, which suggests that 59%will improve in tolzd.
This also means that, t,sing allcustomizing functions, 76% of the given sentences canbe translated as in the Fnglish ,nanual, while only51%, can be done so t,sing the conventional ft, nctions.Tlmse figures suggest that a translation template is29useful to deal with complex translation.Sentences which cannot be ct, stomized are dividedinto four categories:?
Failed application of parameters (20%)?
Inadequate syntax for templates (9%)?
Inappropriate mplates (65%)?
Others (6%)First, a translation parameter does not work whenthe condition on its application is not customizable.One example is a translation parameter of sentencetypes for enumerated items.
If the system canrecognize such a specific form, its translation can becustomized.
Otherwise tile specified parameter is notused.Second, an extended syntax for translationtemplates is needed to represent more complextranslation.
An example is to extend the syntax sothat conversion of grammatical categories, such asnominalization of verb phrases, can be specified.Third, translation templates are not utilized inlight of the criteria explained in 3.
The statistics ofthe rejected sentences i as follows.?
Division or concatenation f sentences (57%)?
Resolution of zero-pronouns (24%)?
Parenthesis / gapping (11%)?
Others (8%)5.3 Discussion?
Flexibility of translation templatesA translation template proposed in this paper ismore flexible than others due to variables to matchwith 'verb phrases' and 'clauses.'
Basically, a patternmatching approach like the template-based translationhas a disadvantage on word order when it is applied toa language that has relatively free word order likeJapanese.
This problem is partially solved by usingthese variables because the word order of theconstituents of verb phrases and clauses is not fixed.?
Appropriateness of translation templatesThe question about the appropriateness of atranslation template is also raised in case of atranslation example in Example-based MachineTranslation (EBMT).
It is easy to measure the systemperformance, but is difficult to evaluate tileappropriateness of examples based on their amount andthe performance.
Tbis issue Ires been ignored so far.Our criteria will be the first approacb to thisissue.
Although every translation can be describedusing translation templates, some criteria todetermine its appropriateness hould be providedbecause without them automatic template learningwill soon lead to tile explosion of the templatedatabase.6.
ConclusionIn this paper, we have presented a framework forcustomizing a machine translation system using user-defined translation templates.
This enables users torepresent bilingual knowledge for complextranslation.
We have conducted a preliminary analysisto evaluate tile effectiveness of the proposedframework based on a bilingual text.
Tile resultshows that about 60% of mistranslated sentences canbe properly translated by combining the proposedframework with the convention:d ct, stomizingfunctions, while only 14% can be achieved using tbeconventional customizing functions.One of our current concerns is to extendtranslation templates and make them more expressiveto deal with more complex translation.
The proposedframework does not permit variables in a template tobe changed into other grammatical categories.Another concern is to improve the user interface forregistering translation templates.
Through tileanalysis of source and target sentences, initial valuesin the interface will be more acct,rate and need lesscorrection.References\[1\] 1)agan, I., Itai, A. and Scbwall, U. : Twol,anguages Are More Informative Than One, Proc.
cfACI,-91, pp.
130-137, 1991.\[2\] Grishman, R. and Sterling, J. : Acquisition ofSelectional Patterns, Proc.
rf COLING-92, pp.
658-664, 1992.\[3\] Hirakawa, II., Nogami, II.
and Amano, S. : EJ/JEMachine Translation System ASTRANSAC--Extensions toward Personalization, Proc.
of MTSUMMITIII, pp.
73-80, 1991.\[4\] Kaji, It., Kida, Y. and Morimoto, Y. : LearningTr:inslation Templates from Bilingual Text, Proc.
rfCOLING-92, pp.
672-678, 1992.\[5\] Kumano, A., Kinoshila, S. and llirakawa, II.
:Customiz:ltion of Machine Translation System withUser-defined Rules, Japan Soc.
Artif Intell.Technical Report, SIG-SI,UD-9301-6, 1993 (inJapanese).\[6\] Manning, C. D. : Automatic Acquisition of al.arge Snbeategorization Dictionary from Corpora,Proc.
rfACL-93, pp.
235-242, 1993.\[7\] Maruyama, H.: Pattern-Based Translation:Context-Free Transducer and Its Applications toPractical NLP, Proc.
of Natural Language ProcessingPacific Rim Symposium, pp.
232-237, 1993.\[8\] lJratani, N., Katoh, N. and Aizawa, T. :Extraction of Fixed Patterns from AP EconomyNews, Proc.
of the 42th t4nmml Convention IPS30Japan, 6E-4, 1991.\[9\] Utsuro, T., Matsumoto, Y. and Nagao, M. :Lexical Knowledge Acquisition from I~ilingualCorpora, Proc.
of COLING-92, pp.
581-587, 1992.\[10\] Watanabe, 1t.
: A Method for ExtractingTranslation Pattern from Translation Examples, l'roc.of TMI-93, pp.
292-301,1993.31
