WORD SENSE AMBIGUATION:  CLUSTERING RELATED SENSESWilliam B. DolanMicrosoft Researchbilldol @ microsoft.cornAbstractThis paper describes a heuristic approach toautomatically identifying which senses of a machine-readable dictionary (MRD) headword aresemantically related versus those which correspondto fundamentally different senses of the word.
Theinclusion of this information in a lexical databaseprofoundly alters the nature of sense disambiguation:the appropriate "sense" of a polysemous word maynow correspond to some set  of  related senses.
Ourtechnique offers benefits both for on-line semanticprocessing and for the challenging task of mappingword senses across multiple MRDs in creating amerged lexical database.1.
IntroductionThe problem of word sense disambiguation is onewhich has received increased attention in recentwork on Natural Language Processing (NLP) andhfformation Retrieval (IR).
Given an occurrence of apolysemous word in running text, the task as it isgenerally formulated involves examining a set ofsenses, defined by a MRD or hand-constructedlexicon, and examining contextual cues to discoverwhich of these is the intended one.
This paperconsiders a problem with the standard approach tohandling polysemy, arguing that in many cases thiskind of "forced-choice" approach to disambiguationleads to arbitrary decisions which have negativeconsequences for NLP systems.
In particular, weshow that a great deal of potentially usefulinformation about a word's meaning may be missedif the task involves isolating a single "correct" sense.We describe an approach to the construction of anMRD-derived lexical database that helps overcomesome of these difficulties.We begin by reviewing two difficulties with thisapproach, then go on to suggest our approach tosolving these difficulties in creating a large MRD-derived lexical database.
Our method might betermed "ambiguation", because it involves blurringthe boundaries between closely related word senses.Alter describing the algorithm which accomplishesthis task, we go on to briefly discuss its results.Finally, we describe the implications of this workhas for the task of merging multiple.The arbitrm'iness of sense divisionsThe division of word meanings into distinctdictionary senses and entries is frequently arbitrary(Atkins and Levin, 1988; Atkins, 1991), as acomparison of any two dictionaries quickly makesclear.
For example, consider the verb "mo(u)lt",whose single sense in the American HeritageDictionary, Third Edition (AHD3) corresponds totwo senses in Longman's Dictionary ofContemporary English (LDOCE): 2AHD3!y: part :or a!l of a coat or...covering; sucli:as feathers;cuticle or  skin 'LDOCE(1) "(of a biid ) to !0se o r thro TM off  (tleatberS) at theseasoii when new feathers grow'.
i (2) {of an anima!
; eSpl ad6g or cat)to lose or throw0ff(hair or fur)The arbitrary nature of such divisions iscomponnded by the fact that dictionaries typicallyprovide no information about how the differentsenses of a polysemous headword might be related.Examination of dictionary entries shows that theseinterrelationships are ol)en highly complex,encompassing senses which differ only in someslight shade of meaning, those which are historicallybut not synchronically related, those which arelinked through some more or less opaque process ofmetaphor or metonymy, and finally, those whichappear to be completely unrelated.A typical case is the entry liar the noun "crank",which includes one "apparatus" sense (1) and two"person" senses (2) and (3).
Nothing in this entryindicates that (2) and (3) are more closely related toone another than either is to (1).I 1 would like to extend my thanks to Robert Dale and Lisa Braden-ltarder, aswell as the naembers of theMicrosoft NLP group: George Heidorn, Karen Jensen, Joseph Pentheroudakis, Diana Peterson, Steve Richardson,and Lucy Vanderwende.2 All examples are fi'om LDOCE, except as noted.712(!)
"an apparatus fl~r c ranging movement in astraight line into circular nlovenmnt..."(2,) "a person with.,stnmge, odd, or peculiar ideas"(3) "a nasty bad4empered person,Usi!
!g MRI)s  forSe+nse l) isatnbiguationAtkins (1991) argues that dictionary-derivedlexical databases will be capable of supporting high-quality NI+P only if they contain highly detailedtaxonomic descriptions ol' the interrelationshipsamong word senses.
These rchttionships are oftensystematic (see Atkins, 1991), and it is possible toimagine strategies tot autonmtically or at least semi-iUltomatically identi(ying them.
One such proposal isdue to Chodorow (199t)), who notes 10 recnrringtypes of inter-sense relationships in Webster's 7th,inchlding PROCESS/RESUI+T, FOOI)/PI+ANT, andCONTAINEP,/VOI+UME, and suggests that seineinstances of these relationships might beautolnatically identified.
Ideally, such strategy mighlallow the autolnated construction of lexical databaseswhich explicitly characterize how individual sensesof a headword are rehttcd, with theseil+terrclationships described by a fixed, general set ofsemantic isssociations which hold between wordsthroughout the lexicon.In practice, however, attempts It) antomaticallyidentil}?
systematic polysemy in MRDs will captureonly a slnall subset of the clsses in which word sensesoverlap semantically.
()flen, distinctions among aword's senses are so fine or so idiosyncratic that theysilnply ca!mot bc characterized in a general way.
Forinstance, while the two LI)OCF, senses of "moult"arc closely related, the film distinction they reflectbetween "bird" lind "animal" behavior is not onewhich recurs systematically thronghont the Englishlexicon.In short, the task of identil+ying and atlaching amealfingful label to each of tim links alnong relatedwords senses in a largo lexical database is a dauntingone, and one that will ultinultely require it great dealof hand-coding, l)erhaps lot these teasel/S, we knowof no large-scale attempts to autolnatically createlabeled links among serlses of polysemous words.Moreover, it is not clear that isttaching alncanil~gful label Io the rehstionstfil~ between twosemantically rclated senses of a word will necessarilyaid in perforlning NI+P tasks.
Krovetz and Croft(1992) snggest jnst the opposile, claimil~g that inlnany cases, dictionary elltries for polyselnons wordsencode film-grain semantic distinctions that arcunlikely to be of practical valnc for specificispl)tications+ Our expcrience suggests a silnilarconclusion.
Consider, for instance, tile following pairof senses lor tile tloun "stalk":(1) "the m,,ain upright part of a plant (not a tree)".
(Ex: abeansta ik )(2) 'a long narrow part of a plant suppor, ting one or\[ inore leaves, fruitS, or flowers; stemThe differences between these two senses aresubtle enough that for many tasks, including sensedisambiguation i  running text, the two are likely tobe indistinguishable from one another.
In a sentencelike "Tile stalks remained in the farmer's field longafter summer", lor instance, the choice of someparticular sense of "stalk" as the "correct" one will beessentially arbitrary.S~nsc \])jsambkguatiQ!~ ve!
'sus l!fformation lmssSense disambiguation algorithms arc l~equentlyfaced with mnltiple "conect" choices, a siluationwhich increases their odds of choosing a reasonablesense, hut which also has bidden negativeconsequences for selnanlic processing.
First of all,the task of discrimilmting between two or moreextremely similar senses can waste processingresonrces while providing no obvious benefit.tlowever, there are more problematic effects nfcombining a lexicon which makes unnecessarily finedistinctions between word senses with adisambignation algorithm which sets up the iSltiI'icialtask of choosing a single "correct" sense Ibr a word.The probleln is that this strategy means thal theinnonnt of senlantic inflmnation retrieved los' a wordwill always be lilnited to just that which is availablein some individual sense, and valuable backgroundinlormation about a word's meaning nlay be ignored.In the cltse of "stalk", for instance, choosing the firstsense will mean losing the fitct that "stalks" are"steins", that they lue "mmow", lind that they"support leaves, fruits, or flowers".
Choosing thesecond sense, on the other band, will mean losingtim fact that stalks arc upright, that one example of astalk is a "beanstalk", and that the main upright partof a "tree" cannot be called a "stalk".lhunan dictionary users never encounter thisproblein.
The reason is that instead of treating theentry tot a word like "stalk" its a pail el' entirelydiscl'ele senses, a hulnan looking this word np wouMtypically arrive at nlore abstract notion of itsmeaning, one which encompasses infol+lnatiol~ flomboth senses, llow call we refommlate tile problem ot:sense disalnbigualion its a computational context sothat Selnantic processing can do a better job ofnlinficking the hunlan user?
Our solution involvesencoding in our 13)OCE-derived Icxical databaseinforlnatiol~ isbout how a word's senses overlapsemantically.2.
Ment i fy ing Semant ica l ly  S imi lar  SensesThe relnahuler of tile paper describes a heuristic-based algnrithln which antomatically determineswhich senses of a given I J )OCE headword are713closely related to one another vs. those which appearto represent fundamentally different senses of theword.
While no attempt is made to explicitly identif}?the nature of these links, our program has theadvantage of generality: no hand-coding is required,and the techniques we describe can thus be applied(with some modification) to on-line dictionariesother than LDOCE.
This work has an importanteffect on the formulation of the sense disambiguationtask: by encodiug information of this kind in onrLDOCE-derived lexical database, we can now permitthe sense disambiguation component of our system toreturn a merged representation of the semanticinformation contained in multiple senses of a wordlike "stalk".
Making available more backgroundinformation about a word's meaning increases thelikelihood of correctly interpreting sentences whichcontain this word.Our method involves pertbrming an exhaustiveset of pairwise comparisons of the different senses ofa polysemons word with one another, with the aim ofdiscovering which pairs show a higher degree ofsemantic similarity.
Comparisons are not limited bypart of speech; for example, noun and verb sensesare compared to one another.
A variety of types (ffinRnmation about a sense's meaning are exploited bythis comparison step, including:?
LDOCE Syntactic Subcategorization Codes,, LI)OCE BoxcodesThe program uses a taxonomic lassification ofthese codes based on Bruce and Guthrie (1992) toallow partial matches between senses with non-identical but related Boxcodes.
In addition, certainBoxcode specifications (e.g., Iplant\]) match againstsets of keywords in definition strings (e.g., {plant,soil} }.?
LDOCE Domain CodesA taxonomic lassification of the 124 Domaincodes like that in Slator (1988) is used to identifycases in which two senses have similar but non-identical codes.
As with the Boxcodes, certainDomain specifications (e.g., BB, "baseball"\]) matchagainst sets of keywords in definition strings (e.g.,{baseball, ball, sports}).?
Features Abstracted from LDOCE Definitious:A number of binary features, inch, ding \[locative\]and \[human\] have been automatically assigned toLDOCE senses, based on syntactic and lexicalproperties of their definitions.
Matches betweenthese features increase the likelihood that two sensesare semantically related.?
Semantic RelationsThe most important source of evidence about theinterrelationships among senses has beenautomatically derived fi'om LDOCE definitionsentences.
The program consults a lexical databasewhich contains approximately 150,000 semanticassociations between word senses, the result ofautonmtically parsing the definition text of eachnoun and verb sense in LDOCE and then applying aset of heuristic rules which antomatically attempt oidentify any systematic semantic relationshipsholding between a headword and the (base forms of)words used to define it (Jensen & Binot, 1987;Montemagni and Vanderwende, 1992).Approximately 25 types of semantic relations arecurrently identified, including Hypernym (genusterm), Location, Manner, Purpose, ttas Part,TypicalSubject, and Possessor.
Finally, each of.these links is automatically sense-disambiguated.The resulting associations are modeled as labelededges in a directed cyclic graph whose nodescorrespond to individual word senses (Dolan et al1993; Pentheroudakis and Vanderwende, 1993).Matching two senses involves comparing anywdues which have been identified for each of thesemantic relation types.
One of the most importantcomparisons is of Hypernyms, which have beenidentified lbr the wtst majority of noun and verbsenses.
An exact Hypernym match generally signalsa close semantic relationship between two senses, asin the following senses of the noun "cat":( ! )
w i t h  S0f( fur and sharp teeih and \]claws (naiis), 0ften kept as a pet , i " :  \[rel!t!ed to this, \[:suCh as :the l i0n o r : t i g e r , .
.
\]Comparisons are not limited to Hypernyms, ofcourse: in comparing two senses, the programattempts to identify shared values tot each of thedifferent semantic attributes present in a word'slexical representation.
For instance, in each of thefollowing verb senses of "crawl", the word "slowly"has been automatically identified as the value of aManner attribute.
( I )"tomgves!oWlywith e body c!0se t0 tlie \[ground or floor 0r 0n tlie hands and kneeS" I(2) "tO gO very Siowly" IEach time an identical value is found for a givensemantic attribute, the algorithm increments thecorrelation score for that pair of senses.
If no exactmatch is found, the program checks whether thevalues for this attribute in the two senses have ahypemym or hyponym in common.
The followingsenses of the noun "insect", lbr example, are linkedthrough the Ilypernyms "creature" .
'md "animal":(1) "a small Creature with no bones and: a hard outercovering..." \[(2) "a very Sinall animal that creeps along the \[groundl such as a spider or worm" \[According to the network implicit in LDOCE,"creatm'e" is a hyponym of "animal", while "animal"is a hyponym of "creature".
(For discussion of this714kind el: circularity in dictionary detinitions, seeCalzolari, 1977?
)In addition to such straightlorward comparisons,a number of "scrambled" colnparisons are attempted.For instance, any value for the lngredientOf attributeis automatically compared to tile Itypernym wflue(s)lk)r each other senses.
This comparison reflects tilefact that maBy nouns are both the nalne for asubstance and tor something which is made li'omthat substance.
An exanrple of this is the noun"coffee": in one sense, "coffee" is hlgredientOf of a"drink", while in another sense it has been klentifiedas a Hypernym of the noun "drink".
( ! )
'a brown p0wder made by crushing coffee beans,~\]used fo{i mak!g drmks: \](2) !
'(a cupful of)a hot br0wn drittk made,by adding \]\[ hot water am!/or, milk to this powder' \[3.
DiscAIssion and Ewthtat ionThe sense clustering prograln was run over tileset of 33,0(10 single word noun defintions and 12,000single word verb definitions in I,DOCE (45,000total) in a process that took approximately 20 hourson a 486/50 I'C.
Given a set of senses tot apolysemous word such as "crank", tile result of theexhaustive pairwise comparisons performed by theprogram is a (synnnetrical) matrix of correlationscores:~ ~II~0 v(!b) zd .2  ,,3v (1 a ;~" -~(lb) I V5 "~.. .
.
.
.~ I \] 41 35 .
..3 /3 _z 2Since our conlparison are heuristic in nature, therelative rankings of the pairwise comparisons for apolysemous word's senses are the relevant measnreof semantic similarity, rather than any absolutethreshold.
In the case of "crank", (21ustel'ing hascorrectly indicated a high correlation between thetWO "hu lna i l "  senses  o f  the II()l.in "c i 'ank",  anti a highcorrelation between the two verbal subsenses and the"apparatus" noun sense.
Mo,eover, tire two "hnman"noun senses are not semantically correlated with anyof tile three "apparattls" enses.Negative scores are also common, reflectingcertain kinds of incompatibilities between senses(e.g., one sense is \[+animate\] while the other is\[-animate\]).
As a rule of thumb, however, it is mucheasier to identify commonalties between senses thanto identify definite mismatches.Zero DerivationOne of the most useful products of clustering isthe identification of many cases of zero-derivednorm/verb pairs.
For instance, tile comparison of tilevarious senses of the word "cook" shows the verbsense "to prepare (toed) for eating..." to be highlycorrelated with the noun sense "a person whoprepares and cooks a~od".
This kind of cross.-classification, which dictionaries generally fail toprovkte, has interesting implications tot normalizingtilt semantics of superficially very differentsentences.
For example, a concept which isexpressed verbally in one sentence can now berelated to the same general concept expressednominally in anoflmr, even if LDOCE does notexplicitly link the definitions ff)r the two parts ofspeech.
(Pentheroudakis & Vanderwende (1993)describe a general approach to identifying semanliclinks among lnorphologically-rehited words.
)MetaphorInterestingly, the tact that many conventionalmetaphors tire lexicalized in diclionary definitionscan lead to difficulties with our strategy ofcomt,aring different definitions to one another.
3Consider the lbllowing senses of the noun "nmuth":( i )  "the oPening onthe face through which an  1animal or hmnan being may take food::."
/ " "r (2) an opemng, entrance, or way out...... (Ex:" "mouttt of a cave") ,In considering these two senses, Clusteringreturned a correlation score ?ff 26, snggesting areasonably close semantic relationship betweenthem.
l~:mm one perspective this is simply wrong: alnunan or anilnal "month" is fundamentally differentfrom a cave "mouth", and we wotfld like our MRD-derived lexicon to indicatc this fact.
Once theobvious metaphorical ssociation between these twosenses of "mouth" is noted, however, the reason fortile clustering program's result becomes clear: bothsenses are defined as kinds of "npenings".
The caselor treating the two senses as semantically similar isstrengthened by other evidence: one sense of"entrance" (which is the tlypernym of the secondsense) has "opening" as its own Hypernym: "a gate,door, or other opening by which one enters".Such metaphorical associations between wordsenses add a considerable degree of complexity todisambiguation and other kinds of reasoningprocesses that operate by identifying semanticrelationships between different words.
More workaimed at identifying tire systematic natnre of such3 This same problem crops up in any task whichinvolves comparing different words/senses, includingdisambiguation f running text?715relationships will be required before metaphor-basedconfusions of the kind described above can beautomatically resolved.4.
Conc lus ions and Future WorkInterestingly, the machinery used to identifycommon semantic threads among a polysemousword's senses was originally constructed withanother purpose in mind -- namely, disambiguatingLDOCE genus terms.
As it turned out, exactly thesame set of tests used to compare a word sense to theset of possible senses of its Hypernym proved usefidin comparing the different senses of a single word.While the current instantiation of the Clusteringprogram relies partially on information which isidiosyncratic to LDOCE (e.g., Domain codes), mostof the information it uses for inter-sense comparisonshas been extracted from the text of their definitions.For this reason, the techniques we have describedhere are can be readily applied to other MRDs.In addition, we plan to experiment withaugmenting the results of out' sense clustering withstatistics derived from running a sensedisambiguation program over a large fiee-textcorpus.
In particular, we are interested indiscovering whether the "hard cases" encountered bythis sense disambiguation program (i.e., those casesin which the program consistently has difficulty inchoosing among two or more competing senses)correlate with cases of significant semantic overlapamong senses, if this hypothesis i  borne out, theninformation about which senses are difficult todistinguish in flee text can be used to help usestablish the taxonomic relationships among thedifferent senses of a polysemous word.Finally, the work we have described here hasimportant implications for the task of mergingmultiple MRDs into a single lexical database.
Thistask is greatly complicated by arbitrary sensedivisions encountered in different dictionaries (seeAtkins and Levin, 1988; Byrd, 1989).
Consider theverb "mo(u)lt" again: since the single AHD3 sensefor this word subsumes both LDOCE senses, noobvious mapping strategy is available.
Should theAHD3 sense be mapped into just one of the LDOCEsenses?
Each of them?
Or should the AHD3 sense beleft separate, resulting in a merged lexical eutry withthree separate entries?
As more sources ofinfor,nation about word meanings arc folded in, thislast strategy can only increase the complexity ofsemantic processing, since it will become more andmore difficult to deternrine which of an ever-largerset of semantically-related senses is the appropriateone in a given context, Clustering offers a simpleway to begin to approach this problem.
By poolingand clustering senses for words fi'om both LDOCEand AHD3, we can provide a rough indication of thesemantic iuterconnections between the two entries.As our techniques for automatically extractingsemantic information from the text of definition andexample sentences gradually improve, we expect ourability to automatically identify semantic overlapsand differences to improve as well.5.
ReferencesAtkins, Beryl (1991) "Building a Lexicon: thecontribution of lexicography", InternationalJournal of Lexicography 3:167-204.Atkins, B. and B. Levin (1988) "AdmittingImpediments", Proceedings of the Fourth AnnualConference of the UW Centre for the New OED,Oxford.Bruce, R. and L. Guthrie (1992) "GenusDisambiguation: a Study in Weighted Preference",In hvceedings of COLING92, pp.
1187- I 191.Byrd, R. (1989) "Discovering Relationships amongWord Senses", Proceedings of the Fifth AnnualConference of the UW Centre for the New OED,Waterloo, Canada.Calzolari, N. (1977) An Empirical Approach toCircularity in Dictionary Definitions", in Cahiersde Lexicologie 3l : 118-128.Chodorow, M. (1990) "Making Sense of WordSenses: detecting and analyzing systematicpolysemy in noun definitions", CUNY,unpublished ms.Dolan, W., I,.
Vauderwende, and S. Richardson(1993).
"Automatically Derived StructuredKnowledge Bases from On-line Dictionaries",Proceedings of the First ConJerence of the PacificAssociation for Computational Linguistics, April21-24, Simon Fraser University, Vancouver,Canada.Jensen, K. and J.-L. Binot (1987).
"Disambiguatingprepositional phrase attachments by using on-linedictionary definitions".
Computational Linguistics13: 3-4, pp.
251-260.Krovetz, R. and B. Croft (1992).
"l,exical Ambiguityand Information Retrieval", ACM Transactions onInJormation Systems, 10: 2, pp.
115-141.Montemagne, S. and L. Vanderwende (1992).
"Structural patterns vs. string patterns \[brextracting semantic iniormation fromdictionaries."
In Proceedings of COLING92, pp.546-552.Pentheroudakis, J. and L. Vanderwende (1993)"Automatically Identifying MorphologicalRelations in Machine Readable Dictionaries", inProceedings of the Ninth Annual Conf.
of the UWCentre for the New OED and Text Research,Oxford, England.pp.
114-131.Slator, B.
(1988) "Constructing ContextuallyOrganized I,exical Semantic Knowledge-Bases",Proceedingx o/" the Third Annual Rocky MountainCor~'erence on ArtoCicial hztelligence (RMCAI-88), Denver, CO, pp.
142-148.716
