Noun Phrasa l  Ent r ies  ill the 1,3)17, Eng l i sh  Word  D ic t ionaryA.
Koizumi, M. Arioka, C liar\]d\], M. SugimotoJapan L:lectronic Dictionary Research Institute, IAd.Tokyo, Jap:mL.
(htthrie, C. WattsComptfling Research LaboratoryNew Mexico State UniversityLas Cruces, NM, USAR.
Cat~zone, Y. Wilksl)epartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of SheffieldSheffield, U KKeywords: Lexicon construction, tmiversal features,resources for eL.1.
IntroductionThe dictionary construction project at tile Japan FlectronicDictionary Research Institute, Ltd. (El)R) in Tokyo beganin 1986 and is ahnost certainly the largest lexicon construc-tion project for computational purposes it\] tile world.
Thispaper describes ome aspects of the construction of the En-glish language dictionary, in particular a project to verifyand enh,'mce information on noun phrases in the EnglishWord Dictioniuy undertaken by the Computing ResearchLaboratory at New Mexico State University and the Univer-sity of Sheffield.
We believe the work so far raises issues ofwider linguistic interest which require practical solutions othat the large scale lexicon project can proceed.
We hopethat this palter will show the complexity, diversity, attd rich-ness of the content of the EI)R English Word Dictionary.Tile key idea has beet\] to construct a system of features, cat-egories and structures for encoding English words andphrases that is, at the same time, universal, or at least suffi-ciently universal to code both English and Japanese, twovery different languages indeed.
This is particuhMy evidentin the use of left and right "adjacency attributes" in both theEnglish and Japanese dictionaries.
This general idea is avery natural outcome of the general state of linguistictheory, at least in tile generative tradition, in its broadestsense: one which emphasises universality in its feature setsand structural conslraints, but which has also evolved by along and tortuous route to the current position where tilelexicon is primary in a linguistic system, and all other levelsof linguistic analysis can be seen as a projection from thatlevel.
The alphabet-soup grammar theories that are nowcurrent all share that assumption to some degree.Thus, a practical attempt to construct alexicon on i)rinciplesas universal as possible for computational use.
is indeed aproject broadly consistent with the state of generativetheory.
Almost all other lexicon construction projects underway with computation as a main goal (e.g.
COMLEX, CUP,Procter 1992 att(I see Wilks, Slator and Guthrie, it\] press) aredesigned principally for I?nglish, although CUP intends toaugment i s structures l"ron\] non-English corpora \[IS soon asis feasible, and a COMI,I';X tbr Spanish is already underdiscussion.
Nonctlmless, the sheer scale of the EDR enter-prise (see below) and its explicitly universalist assumptions(1o make it unique.
We will now outline briefly tile generalstructure of the dictionaries it\] the project and then proceeddirectly to some of the theoretical :rod computationalchoices that have been nlade ill tile Fnglish lexicon.2.
The EDR DictionariesThe EI)R I-lectronic l)ictionary (El)R, 1993; Yokoi, 1990)is designed as the first true machine-readable dictionary thatcontains, it\] a readily qccessible lorm, tile information re-quired for a colnputer to understand and generate naturalhmguage.
As such, the EDR Electronic l)ictionary is in-tended to be universally apl\]licahle and is not restricted to ap;trticuhtr application system.
The part of the dictionary thathandles surface information is kept separate from the sec-tion that handles emantic intbrlnation: surface inlormationthat is heavily dependent upon a particular language isstored in the Word I)ictionary, attd sclnantic infornmtion isstored in the Concept Dictionary.There arc lbur different dictionaries that comprise the El)I?,l:!lectronic Dictionary: the Word Dictionary, the ConceptI)ictionary, the Co-Occurrence Dictionary and the BilingualDictimmry.
The different dictionaries that make np theEDR lilectronic Dictionary and the EDR Corpus are set in astructure of mutual interrelatedness.
Four types of constitu-ent data are contained in the Ifl)R electronic dictionaries:word entries, concept entries, co-occurrence entries and bi-lingual entries.
Word entries consist of headwords, gram-matical information that indicates tile grammatical charac-teristics of tile word, and concept identifiers that indicate tileconcepts represented by a given word in different contexts.Concept entries represent the relationship between two dif-257ferent concepts.
Co-occurrence entries use co-occurrencerelation labels to describe the possible co-occurrence r la-tions between headwords.
Bilingual entries describe theword correspondences between headwords in differentlanguages.
Thus, each of the EDR electronic dictionaries irelated to the others, and by using the different componentdictionaries as a single entity, they can usefully be appliedto many forms of natural anguage processing.3.
The EDR Word DictionaryThe role of the Word Dictionary is to provide morphologi-cal, syntactic and some semantic informatio,~: the WordDictionary is divided into a General Vocabulary Dictio-nary and a Technical Terminology Dictionary and theformer is further subdivided into a Japanese General Vo-cabulary Dictionary and ,an English General VocabularyDictionary, each of which contains 200,000 words.
Thevocabulary covers words, compounds, and idioms used inordinary documents.
The Technical Terminology l)ictio-n,'u'y covers words or terms that are specific to infornmtionprocessing and related fields, and is also split into a Japa-nese Technical Terminology and an English TechnicalTerminology Dictionary.
Each contains 100,000 words.The main characteristics of the General Vocabulary Dic-tionary are:(1) surface level information and deep (semantic) levelinformation are stored separately;(2) surface level information isdescribed independent ofany specific application system or algorithm;(3) a large-scale vocabul,'u'y contains lexical items usedin general writing.The Word Diction,'uy is a collection of word entries thatcontain entry information as shown in Fig.
1.Fig.
1 Structure and Content of Word EntriesIleadword GrammaticalInformation InformationlteadwordNotationAdjacency AttributesExtra NotationPronunciationPart of speechSyntax treeInflectionGrammatical ttributesFunction word informationSemanticInformationConcept identifierConcept illustrationS npplement,'u'yInformationUsageFrequencyTile lleadword Information provides headword, extra no-tation, and pronunciation.
A headword consists of notation(the orthographic spelling of a word - containing all thecharacters common to all inflected forms of tile word) andadjacency attributes.
For phrasal entries, the headword is alist of the pairs of notation and adjacency attributes of eachconstituent of the phrasal entry.
The adjacency attributesindicate the possibility of joining one inorpheme to anotherand ,are used to create adjacency rules for morphologicalanalysis and generation.
EDR employs a bidirectionalconnection grammar which divides the adjacency con-straint attributes into possible connectivity othe left of tileword and possible connectivity to the right of the word.This information is not nor,nally described in this form forEnglish, but EI)R employs the same method in both WordDictionaries o that morphological nalysis of Japaneseand English can be made by the same algorithm.
The extranotation information stores headwords in kana for entriesin the Japanese Word Dictionary and in a character stringform with syllable markers for hyphenation for entries inthe English Word Dictionary.Grammatical information consists of part of speech, syntaxtree, inflection information, grammatical ttributes andfunction word information.
The grammatical informationcan be used to find tile syntactic stn, cmre of a sentence insyntactic analysis.
A syntax tree is provided for compoundwords or idioms consisting of multiple words.
The fimc-tion word code corresponding to the notation of the bead-word is provided for fimction words.A concept (listed under semantic information) in additionto being a flmdamental component of the Concept Dictio-nmy, describes tile semantic ontent of any word entry inthe Word l)ietionary.
If the same headword has two ormore different concepts, separate word entries are used inthe Word Dictionaries.
This information is used to distin-guish between the various meanings a given word mayhave.
The concept is the link between the Word Dictionaryand the Concept l)ictionary.Supl)lementary inforlnation provides information on theusage as well as the frequency of the headword entry.4.
Noun Phrase Entries in the EDR English Word Dic-tionaryPortions of the English Word Dictionary have been sub-jected to rigorous verification through proiects at the Com-puting Research Laboratory (CRL) at New Mexico StateUniversity, and the University of Sheffiekt.
Following is areport on one phase of the verification project at CRLwhich was aimed at describing the grammatical informa-tion as well as verifying the morphological information.The objects of this phase of tile verification project con-sisted of 37,039 entries initially coded by EI)R as nounphrase expressions.
Among these entries, 2,389 weretreated as single word entries and 34,650 were treated as258phrasal entries (see below for tile distinction between ,l.3 Aim of Verificationsingle word and phrasal entries).4.1 Phrasal Entries vs.
Single Word Entries in the lil)R IV.n -glish Word DictionaryIn the EDR English Word Dictionary, headwords aretreated as either single lexical item, while 'phrasal' ,efersto a word that is coml)osed of more than one lexieal item.In addition to the difference made on lexical units, somewords are 'treated as' single word entries even though they,are composed of more tllan one lexical item.
The type ofinformation that is provided for headwords varies accord-ing to the type of headword.
Phrasal entries are given thesame information given to single word entries but they arealso coded with additional information that indicates theirinternal syntactic structure.
The adjacency attributes andthe grammatical ttributes are given to each of the constitu-ents of the phrasal.
Phrasal expressions t~'eated as singleword entries ~:tre uot segmented into constituent words.
In-cluded under those words tbat are treated as single wordentries are the following tylx~s of words:-foreign words-proper nouns-common nouns derived from prope,' nouns ("NewMexican")-idiomatic expressions which do not fit into a general-ized phrase structure l)atteru ("on the cheap," "opensesame")-function word equivalents4.2 Information Provided for Notre Phrase EntriesFor noun phrase entries in the English Word Dictionaryinformation isprovided for the phrase as a whole as well asfar the individual constituents hat comprise the F, hrase.Whole phrase information inch,des designation as either acommon oun or proper noun (proper norms are treated assingle word entries and constituents are not separately ana-lyzed), countability, collectivity, gender, verb agreementand article usage.
In addition, the head noun is designaled.The constituent information provided for phrasal entriesincludes left and right adjacency attributes, part of speech,inflection information, and grammatical attributes.
Thegrammatical ttributes that are provided for each of tileconstituents varies according to the part of speech of theconstituent.
Information reg,'u'diug collectivity and count-ability is provided for nouns and information on possiblecomparative, superlative, or positive degree forms is givenfor both adjectives and adverbs that appear as constituentsof the phrase.
Constituent information is provided withinthe context of the whole phrase.
Syntax trees are also de-scribed for noun phrase ntries.4.3.1 Coding of Grammatical InformationThe primary objective of the verification project was tocode thc grammatical information for the noun phrase n-tries.
The specific information given for the noun phraseentries included etermining the intrn-phrasa\] structure ofthe phrasal, the grammatical ttributes of the constituents.
'rod also the grammatical attributes of the entire nounphrase.4.?,.
1.1 Syntactic Relationship Between ConstituentsThe basic principle used in coding imra-phrasal syntacticinformation is th:~t the information should clarify the syn-tactic structure of the phrasal entry.
\[:or example, the lol-lowing phrases look simihu' on the surface, i.e.
adjective +noun + noun, hut actually the internal syntactic structure ofeach phrasal is different.
(iii) traveling post office (iv) dead letter boxThe adjective "traveling" modifies the noun phrase "postoffice" itl the phrase "traveling post office" while the nounphrase "dead letter", con,posed of an adjective and a norm,modifies the nouu "box" in the phrase "dead letter box.
"\[:or building a source of \[exieal iuformation to be used inlanguage processing, in?lication of the head noun of aF, hrase is useful as hyl~ernyrn i formation.
Location of thehead noun cannot be determined automatically from thephrase structt,rc.
That is to say, it is often the case that lhchead noun is the noun occurring in the final position of aphrasal composed of two (or more) lexical items, but thisrule does not always apply as there are also cases in whichthe head noun is the first norm of the phrasal e.g., cou,tmartial.l)tuing the actual task, the distinction between the syntac~tic relationship between constituents was car,ied out by in-dicatin\[, the inlra-phrasal synlax lay parentllesizing the im-mediate constituents with categorical labels.
The categori-cM labels used to mark the grouping of the phrasal areshown in the example below:EAJ(traveling)/EN 1 (post)/EN 1 (o ffice)~> EAJ(traveling)/EN 1 (F,N 1 (post)/EN 1 (@office))In this syntactic notation a slash (/) divides constituents atthe same level, ENI is an English common noun, EAJ auEnglish adjective, etc.
; and lhe bracketing structure is a lin-earized tree in a standard for,n, e.g., in (iii) above the treeexpands to the right, while in (iv) it expands to tile left.
Thesymbol "6.~" indicates the head noun.4.3.1.2 Grammatical Inl'ornlation for tile ConstituentsOnce the intra-phrasal syntax structure of the phrasal has259been determined, the inflection information and grarmnati-cal attributes of the constituents are determined.
The grmn-matical attributes of the constituents are determined byconsidering the constituent as part of the phrase.
Given theinformation of the constituent words coded as separate dic-tionary entries in the EDR English Word Dictionary, thecoding is given based on the behavior of the constituentwhen it is nsed in the phrase.traveling:EAPOS ;EANOCMP;EANOS UP-> EAPOS ;EANOCMP;EANOSUPpost: ENSG;ECNI;ENC -> ENSG;ENUoffice: ENSG;ECN 1 ;ENC -> ENSG;ECN 1 ;ENCThe coding ECN1 (takes plural ending -s) and ENC(Countable) is changed to ENU (Uncountable) to indicatethat the word "post" when used in the context of thephrase, does not inflect.4.3.1.3 Grammatical Information for tile Noun Phrase UnitThe final process in the coding of tile syntactic informationfor noun phrasals involves marking the grammatical t-tributes for the noun phrase as a whole.
The grammaticalattributes marked for the whole phrase include: part ofspeech, countability, collectivity, gender, verb agreementand article usage.
The ex,-unple given in the previous ec-tion, "traveling post office", was coded as a commoncountable noun that may be preceded by both the definiteand indefinite articles and is referred to by the pronoun 'it'.Since the phrase "traveling post office" does not have anyspecial requirements on verb agreement, that is, when tilenoun is used in the singular form it is followed by a singu-1,-u" verb and conversely, when it is used in the plural form itis followed by a plural form verb, the verb agreementmarking is left blank for the entry.4.3.2 Verifying Morphological lufor,nationAlthough decisions for the descriptions of the intra-phrasalsyntax structure were based on initial coding phases of theEDR Word Dictionary development, verification and cor-rection of that morphological information dr, ring the veri-fication project was essential.
The coding of the syntacticinformation for the phras,-d may affect the morphologicalinformation for the entry thus requiring the verification ofmorphological information as well.
The decisions regard-ing the morphological information including segmentationand p,'u't of speech of the constituents could be made withmore precision if the syntactic structure of the phrase wastaken into consideration.Tim basic principles of headword etermination and seg-mentation are as follows:(1) a headword unit should be determined on the basis ofwhether the phrasal expression comprises a single unitof meaning;(2) phrasal headwords hovld be segmented into thoseconstituents which are also found as single headwordsin EDR's English Word Dictionary.In view of the second basic principle, tim part of speech ofa phrasal constituent is decided according to the lexicalpart of speech consistent with the part of speech of the con-stituent as a single word entry in the dictionary.
For ex-ample, nouns flmctioning as adjectives in phrases like"corn stalk" are coded as nouns and verbs modifying nounsas in the phrase "jam session" are coded as verbs.The treatment of hyphenated words as single words orwords which should be broken down into separate con-stituents is a significmlt segmentation issue.
Hyphenatedwords which are used on their own in Standard Englishshould be treated as single constituents and hyphenatedwords which are not used on their own should be brokendown into separate constituents.
In the examples below,the constituents are separated by the slash (/) notation.
"X-ray//spectroscopy""deep-sea//angler""directed/-/energy//weapon""Bose/-/Einstein//statistics"A decision on segmentation for some hyphenated words inphrasal entries is difficult to judge purely by intuition fromlooking at the individual phrasal entries.
These types ofentries have to be looked at as a whole with attention beinggiven to wider usage, and in particular to consistency withother headwords in the dictionary.
For example, adecisionto correct "yellow/--/green" to "yellow-green" cannot bemade purely by intuition.
The decision here is more an is-sue of the selection of headwords rather than one of hy-phenation.
The verification task of morphological infor-mation also included ,'aising possible additional head-words to be added to the EDR English Word Dictionarythrough the analysis of tim entries.
After a decision hasbeen made regarding entering tile hyl)henated word of tilephrasal as a headword in the dictionary, tbe phrasal is fedback to the segmentation process.4.4 Some Results of the Work4.4.1 Syntactic PatternsTim result of the coding shows that 98% of tile 34,650phrasal entries could be covered in approximately 40 dif-ferent patterns.
Tim following seven patterns are the mostfrequent and cover over 80% of the total entries.260# Entries Pattern ExamAl~le1.
174222.
108473.
9934.
7075.
4566.
3267.
294EN10/ENI(@) tmmmock chairEAJ0/EN 1 (@) blue jay*EN20/ENI (@) Doppler effect*EN 1 (@)/EPP(EPR0/EN 10)piece of cakeEAJ(EVE0~EV())~NI  (@)circulating libraryENI (EVE0/EEV0)/EN 1(@)changing room*EN 1 (EN 10/EEN:ENPOS 0)/EN 1 (@)teacher' s pet*ENI denotes a common noun, EN2 denotes a propernoun, EEN:ENPOS a noun possessive nd ing 's  and ',EPR a preposition, and EPP a prepositional phrase.
Thelocation of the head of tile phrasal is indicated by the @notation.4.4.2 Grammatical Attributes of the ConstituentsAs mentioned em'lier one of the tasks of the coding was toindicate the grammatical ttributes of the constituents.
Thedata show that of the adjective + noun pattern tEA J0/EN 10), the adjective constituent of the noun phrase did notinflect to form the superlative or comparative degreeforms, but rather most often occurred in the positive degreeform.The grammatical ttributes fcu' nouns other than the headnoun also showed some interesting results.
Nouns otherthan those designated as the head noun do not inflect inmost of the cases.
One of the exceptional cases is "the timeof w#one's life," where "w#one's" is a word class namefor any noun in the possessive form.
In this example, "life"inflects in accordance with the content of "w#one's" wordclass, though it is not the head noun of tile phrase.
Sincephrases like this are very rare, it is also possible to treat"the time of w#one's life" and "the time of w#one's lives"as individual headwords and not its tile inflected forms ofthe same headword.
Another exceptional case in whichmore than one constituent coukl inflect would be phrasescontaining the conjunction 'and.'
llowever, most of thephrasal entries in the form of 'A anti B' are uncount:d)leand the final noun inflects if the phrase is countable, suchas "gin and tonics.
"Therefore, we can assume that the grammatical behavior ofconstituents of noun phrase entries can be properly de-scribed by indicating the head noun and coding tile inflec-tion information and grammatical attributes of tile headnoun,4.4.3 Grammatical Attributes for the Notul f'hrase UnitThe coding of grammatical ttributes for tile entire nounphrase unit also provided some interesting results oncountability and the usage of articles with the noun phrase.As is expected, the most typic:d combimttion of cotmtabil-ity shows the following combinations:If the noun is countalfle it may be lneceded by tim definitearticle or the indefinite article; If the norm is tmcountable itmay be preceded by the definite article or no article.Approximately 10% of the nouns coded as countableshowed a wtriation on the foremeutioned pattern.
Thesecoutltable notms were coded its allowing the definite ar-ticle, indefinite article as well as no article.
Nouns with thistype of coding included mass nouns, names of phmls antianimals, metals, food, titles etc.
or other nouns whichcould refer to both the group or a member of the group.Examl)les of such nouns included "Leconte's parrow","Madagascar jasmiue", "assembler language", and"atomic weight".
Though this held for the majority of thesetypes of nouus, it was not unive,sally applicable; the use ofno article with "Nubian goat", "Oregon grape" and "arcticloon" is questionable.The significance of this data is that it implies perMps anew code is necessary to cover cases of countable (ENC)nouns becoming uncountable (I-';NU) nouns and vice versa.Instead of coding a single entry as both, or providing twoentries which correspond to the ENC and ENU usage we,night better express the grauunatical behaviors which arecommonly slmred by particular types of not, ns by using anew code,4.4.4 Verification of Morphological hfformationIn tile morphological data some entries of the original datawere segmented into constituents anti some were not.
Thiswas particularly the case with '-ing' and '-ed' forms ofwords.
The segmentation was not always consistent.
Butthrough syntactic analysis, verificatiou of tim segmenta-tion and part of speech assignment could be carried out.The El)P, English Word Dictionary does not contain ger-nuds or p.'uticiple forms of a verb its separate headwordentries (except for irregular inflected lbrms).
If a word intire '-ing' form is regarded as a gerund or a present parti-ciple, it is to be segmented into a verb and a verb ending.There are some cases where gerund forms or participleforms have been accepted as lexical items and not as in-flected forms of a verb.
In such cases, they are klentifiednot as verbs, but as notms or adjectives.Noun phrases consisting of a word in the '-ing' form antianother noun are treated by using one of the following fourpatterns, where EVE denotes an English verb and EEV averb ending:(l) EN 10/EN 1(@)"hunting knife"261(2) EAJ0/ENI (@)"flying fox""man-eating shark"(3) EAJ(EVE0/EEV0)/EN 1 (@)"intervening sequence""circulating medium"(4) EN 1 (EVE0/EEV0)/EN 1 (@)"changing room""participating insurance"If a phrasal in the form of '-ing + noun' could be rewordedas 'a noun that is v-ing' or 'a noun that v-s' the entry wascoded using either pattern 2 or pattern 3.Through the verification of the morphological informationwe were able to gain more consistency in the segmentationof the constituents of phrasal headwords.
Also we wereable to indicate possible additional headword entriesthrough the verification of the constituents hat comprisethe phrasal.5.
ConclusionThe syntactic structure of noun phrasal entries is describedin a relatively small number of patterns.
By coding a largenumber of noun phrasal entries it is possible to obtain anexhaustive list of syntactic patterns for noun phrases thatwould be listed as headword entries for English dictionar-ies.
By describing the syntactic structure it is possible toobtain the syntactic information which is necessary toiden-tify the internal structure of the phrasal as well as confirmand improve upon the segmentation f constituents andpm-t of speech assignment to each constituent ofthe phrasalentry.The vast majority of additional vocabulary, not only in theEDR English Word Dictionary, but in dictionaries in gen-eral will most likely be noun phrases.
By utilizing tile re-sults from the current improvement project, the list of syn-tactic patterns for noun phrase ntries can be used to checkthe appropriateness of the phrases as dictionary headwordsas well as provide screening in order to prevent tile record-ing of ill-formed structures, and finally to indicate syntacticambiguity in the noun phrase itself.Wilks, Y., Slator, B., Guthrie, L. (in press) Electric words:dictionaries, computers and meanings.
Cambridge, MA.M1T Press.Yokoi, T. (1990)Towards information technology.Kyoritsu Shul)pan.ReferencesEDR Electronic Dictionary Technic,.d Guide (EDR, 1993)Procter, P. (1992) The Cambridge Language Survey.
Cam-bridge; Cambridge University Press.Suematsu, H., Sugiura, M., Arioka, M. (1992) "A Distribu-tive Representational Framework for English Collocationsin an Electronic Dictionary," in: LingvisticaeInvestigationes, XVI:2.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam.Pages 373-394.262
