DII, EMMA-  AN INSTANT LEXICOGItAP I lERIIANS KAItLGREN, JUSSI I(~AII.I,GREN, NIAGNUS NORDSTR()M, PAUL PETTI,;R, SSON, P, ENGT ~'VAIlItOI,I{Nd i?
-emma~s?cs ,  eSwedish  Ins t i tu te  of Computer  Sc ienceBox  1263, 164 28 K is ta ,  S tockho lm,  SwedenIntroductionDilemma is intended to enhance quality and increaseproductivity of expert human translators by prese,,ti,,gto the writer relewmt lexical information ,necha,dcallyextracted from comparable xisting translations, thusreplacing - or compensating for the ahsence of-  a lex-icographer and stand-by terminologist rather than thetranslator.
Using statistics and crude surface analysisand a minimum of prior information, Dihnn,,,a identi-ties instances and suggests their counterparts in I)aralh!lsource and target texts, on all levels down to individualwords.Dilemma forms part of a tool kit for t,'anslationwhere focus is on text structure and over-all consis-tency in large text volumes rather than on framing sen-tences, on interaction between many actors in a largeproject rather than on retriewd of machine-stored dataand on decision making rather than on application ofgive,) rules.In particular, the system has been tuned to theneeds of the ongoing translation of European Con,n,u-nity legislation into the languages of candidate me,,,hercountries.
'/'he system has been demonstrated to andused by professional translators with promising results.Ins tant  Lex icographerThe design of translation aids beyond ordinary texl.
pro-cessing and database accession and maintenance toolsis mostly based on the same sinai)lifted view which ....for compelling reasons - -  has been the worki,,g hyl>oth-esis of machine translation: that the source text.
has awell-determined meaning and that there exists in thetarget language at least one correct and adequate waysof expressing that meaning.When these assumptions are reasonably well justi-fled, translation is relatively easy, fast and cheap withtraditional methods and mechanization not rarely fea-sible with methods now known or envisaged.
Typi-cally, however, the translator must do more tha.n re-trieve and operate on we-established a,,d in principlepre-storable correspondences.
Thus, lexical correspon-dences do not exist for all items; it is an essential partof translation to establish them.
Legal texts, factualand stereotype though they may see,n, re.gularly repre-sent thoughts, attitudes and arguments which do nothaw'.
any counterparts in the.
target language prior totranslation.
This is particulary true in the huge projectto translate the European Community legislation intothe languages of countries which are not yet membersof tile ( \]omnmnity and which currently have a partlydifferent legal conceptual framework.What human translators need is decision supl)ort.The most imlmrtant tools are telelfl,ones , electroni-cal ?'onfi.
'rencing systems and good and relevant dic-tiol,aries.
Unfortunately, there are not always at ew~'rypoint of time ltnowledgalAe and cooperative colleaguesor othe.r experts to call, eh.
'ctronical networks ~tre onlyrecently being established in some domMns, and theintelligent and comprehensive dictionaries, which canserve as a writer's digest to the cumulative literatureit, a fiehl are few and far between.
Answers are ofl.ento be found in a text translated late at night the daybeR)re - or in the preceding sections of the text at hand.R.ather than all autolnated writer, we need an instanth!xicographer.Recycling TranslationsIn practh:e, existing translations are being used as amajor source (Shgvall llein et at, 1990; Merkel 1993).Often in the hope to be able to avoid duplication ofcosts - or of getting paid twice for the same ellbrt -by findirlg identical or near-identical texts or passages,hut, more hnportantly, to ensure consistency or gettinggood suggestions, to follow or argue against.
Synonymywu'ial.iou for the salne concept is not al)lU'eclated intechnical and legal prose and avoided as anxiously :milOlllOnyllly, The ideal is I: I corresllondeltces \])etweellexpressions at least within one pair of documents andto eliminate "forks", i.e.., one expression being trans-lated hlto or beil,g the trm,slation of more than onecounte.rpart in the other language (Karlgren, 1988).We slmll call a c.o,,pled pair of source and target texta bitc~'Z (Isabelle, 1992).
Wlmt is said here abou't bitextsca,, be generalized to n-tnples of parallel texts, claimedto dilfer "only" in hmguage.
Such n-tuph.
's exist: in thel!htropean Comnn,nity, a major part of the legislatiouis available in 9 "authenth:" versions, which in (legaland political) theory are equivalent, and according toplans the number of "authentic" will soon rise to 12or more.
l,ittle efforts have previously been made tosystematically exploit this redunda,,cy by means of po-82tent multi-l ingual procedures for retrieving faet.s or ex-l)ressions, even when surprisingly simple methods howl)romise of surprisingly useful results (l)ahlqvist, 1994).Steps  in the  ' \ ]h-anslat ion P rocessl 'roducing target language text is only a small l)ropor -lion of the translation l)rocess.
Eml)irically, good econ-omy is achieved if about the same proportion of workis put into each of the stages Preparation, Text p roductiou and Verification, a trichotomy reminiscent oftile classical person-time breakdown of software development (Brooks, 1975).
The Dilemma tool is usct'ul forsome t~usks in each of the three stages.Funct ; iona l i tyA typical question for translators while actually wt'it.inu,is how a word or phrase has been used or translated inl)reviously processed texts.
Conversely, they may askfor the source languages counl.erl)art:; of given targetlanguage expression, to lnal?.e sure that homonyn,y isnot introduced.
Similarly, during the I)reparation andverification phases, a translator or editor scans throughthe text for words and phrases that need to be resolw>dor treated specially.Text  P roduct ion  PhaseNav igat ing  in B i textsThe first service is to enM)le the translator to I)rowsethrough the bitext and look at text elements pairwise,to cheek |br conventions of usage that are unfamiliar orunexpected.Pointing at a shorter or longer string ill eitl,cr lan-guage the user can film successively larger contexts andtheir counterparts or covnler lezls  in the other l;mguageversion.
This service is available to the user from withina word processor, tile allsWeF pres(.qlted ill a selmi'atewiudow.COll l l t  i!
l ' IVor(|sThe second service is to assess the word-lcwq COlllltol'-parts or "eounterwords" so far used for a given word.llere the system performs, crudely but instantly, thejob of a terminologist or lexic.ographer.
It uses a statis-tical matching process which offers the translator a list,of candidate counterl)arts.Ver i f i ca t ion  phaseTrans la t ion  Vm' i l leat lonIn this l)hasc a revisor reads the text to detect inad-equacies and inconsistencies.
Often, there is no (.rueanswer to a terminological question: either one of afe.w options may be equally good i)er se but unintelMedvariation is disturbing and lnay be misleading.
Verifi-cation, therefore, is not a matter of local eorrecl.ll(?ss orof compliance with a given dictionary or otll~r norm,and reading one passage at ;~ Lime ,,v}\[} not reve;d thedc(iehmcy of the translation (Karlgrenl 1988).One way of resolving or detecting dubious cases isto compare how a word or phrase has been used in amultitude of previous contexts aim how it was remleredin their respective countertcxts.P reparat ion  phaseText -and  Domain-spec i lh ' .
1)hrase L istsin the preparation phase the translator or editor hasto estal)lish text lind domai,l-spccilic word and phraselists.
In a batch mode, l)ile.mma produces draft lists onthe basis of previously translated material ill the samedomain.S t ructur ing  B i textsl,'or bltexts to be exploitable as information sources,text constituents in t.lm two versions must I)e pairedOil SOtll(!
hicrarchicM levels - l)hl'aSC., ClallSg~, Selll,(?llce,paragraph, etc.
~Ve lllllst creat.e a structured bitext,with links fro,n eacl~ constituent not only to its prede-Ce,qSOl' illld SllCCessor bill also tO its (;Otlllterl)itrt ill theother  language version.
This cross-latlglla,gc slA'llCtllre(:;Ul I)e rather easily captured when the translation islining typed, but we ueed to be al)le to derive the pairsfrom two given coluplete texts.
I)i lemma does so auto-maritally.We Inake three linguistic assumptions:1.
'l'he two texts c~m I)e segmented into hierarchicalcons(.ituenl.s so Il ia| most constituents in one (.cxthltve a COllllterl)art ill I, he other.2.
For all levels, except the lowest level, co,mterpartsoccur in the sa.me mutual order.3.
The counterp~rt.s on the lowest level, "counter-.words", appear apl)roxinmtely in the saIlle tl-ltlt, ll&lord(w.We do not assume every (:onstil.u(ml.
on any level tollavc it ('OUllt,~'rl)al't , ilor collstitl letlts 1,o I)e sel);wate(Iby uniqlm delhlliters.
Thus, i\[' I)aragral)hs are separated})y a blank line and sentences I)y a full stop folh)wed bya sl)aee , we do l ie| exchlde that ,  say, ~ paragra l )h  in()lie lallgllage is SOilletilll(}S i'ell(ler{}(I as all enlll-flcration,separated by blank lines and that  "i,\[')" is Ilow and |helltyped as "1.
5".
The procedure is robust in that it,tolerates gaps all(l llOllC too \['rC(lllCllt deviations fromthe prevalellt lmttern.We al)l)ly two statistical procedures, ore.' of align-mmfl.
for higher levels :rod one of assignllmnt for thelowest, "ph rasc", level.A l ignment ;The general i)robleln of order-i)reserving alignment on(me linguistic level reduces to the string correction l)rob -hnn (Wagner and l,'ischer, 1974).
The l)ractical solutio,iis not trivial, however, duc to the extremely large sere'ohspace ew'n for small texts.
We use.
:m algorithm with83search space constraining heuristics not entirely unlikethe one published by Church and Gale (1990) but us-ing linguistic information on more levels.
Using a min-imum of prior information, texts are aligned down tophrase level.
Recognizing identity or similarity of a fewpnnetuation marks, mlmerals and tile nmnber of wordsbetween these suffices for a crude alignment.Word AssignmentWhen the two texts have been aligned on higher levels,correspondences are established between counterwor<ls,which do not necessarily appear in the same order in the;"two language versions.
For this purpose Dilemma use.~an association function which is a weighte<l sum of mea-sures of agreement of word position within the phrase,relative frequency of occnrrence, al,d, optionally, someother properties.
The weighting of the parameters iset after text genre specific experimental.ion.
/>airs ofterrns with a high association value are candidate coun-terwords (NordstriSm and Petterson, 19!t:1).The procedure is self-evaluating since uncertainty isreflected by a low maxinmm association wtlue.
Onlyitems which have a score above a cut-off threshold arepresented to the user.
The proeednre yields sonre 90per cent successfifl assignments among those presentedon the basis of as little material as a single 10 page doc-ument, but for rare words the assignment becomes lesscertain.
In a material of 10 000 pages of legal documentsrelated to the European Economic Space as much as 50per cent of the word tokens were hapax legomena and 75per cent occurred less than 5 times, providing a meagrebasis for statistical analysis.
These.
results can be im-proved if other properties are taken into account.
Whena word length was included as a parameter in the asso-ciation evaluation, the results became marginally moreadequate.
Syntactical tagging, vide infra, is expectedto affect assignment more.TaggingIn tim llrst release of l)ilemma, alignment and as-signment was perfornled on umnodified tyI)ogr;q)hie;dstrings but naturally tim procedures were intended tobe applied after monolingual preproressing.
Trivially,results become l)ractically much more ade(luat(' and thestatistical analysis more effective if, say, making andmade and the infinitive make are subsumed under oneitem and the infinitive and the noun make are kel>t sei>a-rate.
Without any change of method, the p,'ocedure canbe applied to strings of words tagged morphologicallyand syntactically.
The tools chosen for this l>urpose arethe parsers for English, French and Swedish develol>edat Ilelsinki University (Voutilainen el al, 1993).hnplementational StatusDilemma has been iml>lernented in C-I--I- aim runs ira--de,' Microsoft Windows on a regular-size personal C(ml-puter.
Dilemma is currently being ewduated and testedby translators currently involve(1 in the translation oflarge amounts of legal docnments info Scandinavianlanguages in tile context of the proposed accession tothe l';nr(>pean Economic Commu,fity.Referencesl,?e<lerlek Phil l ips Brooks.
1975.
"lTle mythical man-month essays on software ngineering, Reading, Mas-sachusetts: Addison-Wesley.Bengt Dahlqulst.
1994.
TS,'SA 2.0 A PC Program forText Segmentation and Sorting, \])epartment of Lin=guistics, Uppsala University, Uppsala.Gale, W.A.
and K.W.
Church.
;1991.
"ldentifyiagWord CorrespoiMences in Par;dlel Texts", in Proeecd-in\[is of the/dh ?
'peech and Natural Language l'Vorkshop,I)ARPA, Morgan Kaufinann.Brian Harris.
1!)92.
"l~itext", in Proceedings of "'l}'ans-latiorl and the Em'opean Communities", lliskops:Arld~,.qtockhohn: \["AT ('\['he Swedish Assoclatiol, for Autho=rized 'l'r~mslators).Pierre Isabelle.
19!)2.
"Bitexts: Aids for Transhttors',Screening Words: User hlteTJacc, for Text, 8th AnmtalConferen<:e of the L'W centre of the New OED and TextResearch, Walerloo, Canada: W;d.erloo University.Ihms Karlgren.
1987.
"Making Qood Use of I>oor "Pra.ns-lotions", in \[NTEI|NATIONAI.
}?OlllJl'vl ()N \[NFOItMATIONAND I)OCUMENTATION, 12:4, Moscow: I"ID.I lans I(arlL, ren.
1988.
"Terni-Tuning, a lVletlmd I'(ir theCompl~tel'-Aidcd Revision of Multi-l,ingual Texts", inINTEnNA'\['IONAL I;'OI~UM ON INFORMATION ANO I)OC-UMICN'I'A'I'ION, 13:~, Moscow: l"II).I lans Km'lgren.
1,<t81.
"(-,'()Jill)tiLer Aids in ?\]'r~tnsl;t-tlon" with the llanzhlelle l)ccl~tration, in Sigurd andSvartvik (eds.
), AILA F'roceedings, pp 86-101, Lund:AILA.Mart in l(ay.
|980.
"The Proper Place of Men and Mr=chines in I,angllage Translation", Xerox report (/$1,-80-11, PMo Alto: Xerox l>alo Alto llesear<:h Center.Magnus Merkel 1993.
"When and Wily Should Transla-tions I>e Reused?
", Papers fl'om the 18lh UAA KI .gym.posium on I,.<;P, Thcorg of 7}'anshltion and ()Omlmlers,VSyri.Magnus Nordstrihu and Paul Petterson.
1993.
"ATool I'or Rapid ManuM Translation", Master5 Thesisal the University of Uplmala , Upl)sala:lJnivcrsity of lJp-psala.Amu~ S,igvall Iteln , Amw.tte (;}stling~Eva Wlklmhn.
1990.
"Phrases i,i the Core Voeabn-lary".
A Report fi'OUl 7'he Project Multilingual Supportfor "l}'anslation and Writing.
Report no.
U(~I)I,-l/-90-1.
Center for C<>nllmtational I,inguistics.
UppsahtU n iw~rsity.Atro Voutihfinen an(l Pasi Tapanainen.
1993.
"Am-biguity l\[esohl/.ion in a I(cductionistie Parser", Pro=ccc.dings of the 6th Confl?rencc of the l';uropcar~ Chapterof the AC'L, pp.
39,1-,103, Utrecht:ACL.Rol)ert A. Wagner and M. J. Fischer.
1974.
"The.qtring-to-Strlng Corre<:tion Prol)lem", JOIJRNAL ()F'l'm.
: ACM, 21:I, pp 168-173, New York:ACM.84
