TOWARDS A MORE USER-FR IENDLY CORRECTIONDamien GENTHIAL, Jacques COURTIN, Jacques MEN\[~ZOEquipe TRILAN, LGI-IMAG Campus, BP 53, F~38041 Grenoble Cedex 9E-Mail: Damien.Genthial@imag.~ABSTRACTWe first present our view of detection andcorrection of syntactic errors.
We then introdncea new correction method, based on heuristiccriteria used to decide which correction shouldbe preferred.
Weighting of these criteria leads toa flexible and parametrable system, which canadapt itself to the user.
A partitioning of thetrees based on linguistic criteria: agreementrules, rather than computational criteria is thennecessary.
We end by proposing extensions tolexical correction and to some syntactic errors.Our aim is an adaptable and user-friendlysystem capable of automatic correction for someapplications.RI~SUMI~Nous prdsentons d'abord notre position parrapport h la dttection et '2t la correction deserreurs syntaxiques.
Nous introduisons ensuiteune nouvelle mtthode de correction qui s'appuiesur des crit~res heuristiques pour privildgier unecorrection plut6t qu'une antre.
La pondtmtionde ces crit~res permet d'obtenir un syst~mesouple et param6trable, capable de s'adapterl'utilisateur.
Un ddcoupage des arbres bas6 surdes crit~res linguistiques: les r~gies d'accord,plut6t que sur dcs crittres informatiques estalors ndcessaire.
Nous terminons en proposantl'extension ~t la correction lexicale et ~t certaineserreurs syntaxiques.
Notre objectif est unsysttme adaptable, convivial et capable, pourcertaines applications, de faire des correctionsautomatiques.1.
INTRODUCTIONSince 86, the TRILAN 1 team has taken anactive interest in detection and correction oferrors in French written texts.
First centered onlexical errors (Courtin, 89), research work hassince turned towards syntactic errors.
Latter1TRILAN : TRaitement Informatique de la LAngueNaturelle (Computational Treatment of Natural'Language)developments aim at building a complete systemfor detection and correction of errors (Courtin,91), and even to define a more extensiveComputer Aided Writing system (GenthiaL 92).In this kind of system, we have at ourdisposal a large number of modules, each withits own linguistic competence (morphology,phonetic, syntax).
In this paper, we areinterested in the correction process: the aim is tointegrate at best the linguistic knowledge of eachmodule in order to lead to a system capable ofmaking automatic corrections (in a naturallanguage man-machine interface), or almostautomatic (in a computer aided writing system).The paper is centered on agreement errorscorrection, specially frequent in French, but wehope to widen the technique to other kinds oferrors.2.
DETECT ION AND CORRECTIONOF SYNTACTIC  ERRORSAny error which prevents the system fromproducing an interpretation (or more simply aparsing) for the input sentence is considered tobe a syntactic error.
These errors may be ofvery different kinds, but we can give two roughclasses:(a) errors due to the system: the input is correctbut the linguistic overage is insufficient;(b) errors due to the user:, the input is incorrect.This classification, which can "also be usedfor lexical errors, is far more relevant for tilesyntactic level because type (a) errors at thislevel are very frequent in free texts, such asnewspaper articles for example.
In order toavoid deadlocks due to these errors, one mustbuild robust parsers, with wide coverage(Chanod, 91; Genthial, 90).
We are going toconcentrate here on type (b) errors.We suppose the system has "all the requiredcompetence and the deadlock is due to a misuseof the language by the user.
We may thenconsider two ways to proceed:1083?
either we relax constraints in order to obtainresults, even incorrect, then we filter theseresults to find the origin of the error andfinally correct it (Douglas, 92; Weischedel,83);?
or we try to foresee the errors and weintegrate in the grammar a'way to express allpossible types of  errors, thus avoidingdeadlocks of the parsing process (GoOser,90).We have chosen the first way because therichness of  natural language makes it verydifficult to describe all correct utterances.Therefore, it is in our opinion, impossible toenumerate xhaustively all possible errors,especially if we intend to verify texts read byautomatic devices (scanners and charactersrecognition software).The first method can be encountered forexample in systems which aim to build a logico-semantic interpretation f the input sentence: inthese systems, syntactic onstraints are almostcompletely relaxed and parsing is based onsemantic information (Granger, 83; Wan, 92).We have therefore built a prototype(Courtin, 91) which can detect and correctagreement errors in number, gender and person,in simple French sentences.
The mostinteresting feature of this prototype is not itscoverage, which is limited, but the exhaustivedesign and implementation of all agreementrules of French grammar.
It works as follows:we first make a morphological nalysis of theinput sentence, then we build all possibledependency structures for the sentence.Fol lowing the principle of relaxation ofconstraints, the process of building dependencystructures does not take into accountmorphological variables, it uses only the lexicalcategory of words.
The resulting trees are thenpassed on to a checker which will attempt overify the variables borne by the nodes,examining them by pairs, each pair composedof a governor and a dependant.So to verify lesplu calculsin scientifiquesin z(scientific omputations), we will first verify thepair (calculsin, Iespl.u) which is incorrect becauseof a disagreement m number between calcul~n,and leSplu.
We will then ask the user to choosebetween the two solutions : les calculs (plural)and le calcul (singular).
In order to generatethese solutions, we use a morphological2As it is not easy to find good examples of complexagreement errors in english, we use French examples butwe make xplicit he variables causing trouble : here thenumber with sin for singular and plu for plural.generator which is of course based on the samedata as the morphological parser mentionedabove.The user's choice is then introduced in thetree and the verification process resumes.
If theuser chose the plural, we will have an erroragain with (calculsplu, scientifiquesin) leading toa new, obviously useless, question to the user.This traversing of trees using pairs hasproved useful to design agreement rules, but isclearly not adapted to a user-friendly correction.Moreover, it does not take into account thecontext of the incorrect pair.
We thereforepropose f"st the use of correction strategies andthen a new way of traversing the trees which areto be verified.3 .
US ING CORRECTIONHEURIST ICSBy definition of the concept of agreementerror, every such error always gives two lexicalunits which may be corrected.
The choice of theunit to be corrected is left to the user but wethink that in most cases the proper correctioncan be chosen automatically.
Actually, when ahuman being rereads a text, even if he is not theauthor, he very rarely hesitates between the twopossible corrections of an agreement error.
Onecan always say that a human reader tmderstandsthe written text but we can "also imagine simpleheuristics (i.e.
machine computable), whichcould allow correction without hesitation.3.1.
HeuristicsFor examples of such heuristics, we couldhave (V6ronis, 88, quoted in Genthial, 92):a) number of errors in a group: lesi n vdlospt ueStsin redevenusin d la mode will becorrected in the singular le v~lo est redevenucila mode (only one word corrected), ratherthin1 the plural les v~los ont redevenus d lamode (three words corrected with,moreover, an alteration of the meaning,very hard to detect with simple techniques);b) it is better to correct in a way that does notmodify the phonetics of the sentence:Lesmasfem chiensmas dressgesfem.., will becorrected in the masculine Les chiensdresses.., rather than the feminine Leschiennes dressdes... We find here again theidea, often used at the lexical level, thatincorrect written utterances follow thephonetics of the correct form.c) writer laziness: a writer sometimes omits ans where one is necessary, but rarely adds1084one where it is not" les lu enfantrin is thus .
p ~ ...corrected as leSplu enfantSplu ....d) one cml give priority to the head of thephrase (underlined): IeSplu petitSptu ~ inqui ontplu.., becomes ingular le petit enfantqu/a...
The idea here is that the writer takesmore care of the main word of a phrase thanof the others.We could also find other criteria, bystudying corpora or by interv iewingprofessionals uch as teachers of French orjournalists.These heuristics are of course open tocriticism, the main argument against hem beingthat they am no longer valid with the use of texteditors because cutting and pasting of portionsof text may introduce rrors which would nothave been made in linear writing.Moreover, they are often conflicting:consider for example the sentence j'aime lesplucalculsin scientifiquesin which includes anagreement error in number.
The (a) criterionleads to correct lesplu in lesin because 2 wordsamong 3 are singular.
The s not beingpronounced at the end of French words, the (b)criterion leads to correct plural les calculsscientifiques, without phonetic alteration.
The(c) criterion imposes the plural and the (d)criterion the singular of calcul, which is thegovernor.3.2 .
We ight ingsDespite everything, we can hope to obtainautomatic orrections thanks to the use of morethan one criterion and if we are able to weightthe various criteria in order to compute aconfidence factor for each correction.Consider for example, for the abovecriteria, that the confidence factor is computedwith the following formulae:1 +# of correct wordsa) Ka*l + # of corrected_wordsKbb) 1 +#_of  phonetic_alterationsc)d) Kdwhere the Ki are weights assigned to eachcriterion.
We will take Ka = 2, K b = 2,Kc = 2 and K d = 1.If we apply these weightings to lesplucalculsin scientifiqUesin, we get Table 1.Table I "Exat~, s(a) (b) (c) .
.
.
.
(d),singular.
3 1 0 1p lura l  , , .4/) 2 _ 2 ~ oA null value fits a case where the confidencefactor can not be evaluated: thus for the (c)criterion we can only correct in plural and forthe (d) criterion, on this example, singular isimposed by the governor.If we sum the factors of each row, thecorrection j'aime les calculs scientifiques(plural) wins by 5,33 (51,6%) against 5(48,4%) for j 'aime le calcul scientifique(singular).
It is true that in this case, theweakness of the difference makes it advisable toask the user to choose his correction, but wecan decide to use a threshold T such that, if theabsolute value of the difference between the twoconfidence factors (0.3 on the example) isabove T, correction will be automatically donefor the solution with tim higher confidencefactor.3.3 .
Adaptab i l i tyOne of our hypotheses i  that the value ,andthus tile weight of a correction criterion dependson a given user or at least on a given class ofusers (scientists who master the language butnot the keyboard, children or foreignerslearning the language, secretaries who masterboth keyboard and language but areinattentive .... ).Consequently, we want to build a systemwhere the criterion weights are not fixed, butmay be dynamically updated by means of asimple learning mechanism.
Initially, weightsare either arbitrarily chosen, or chosenfollowing the assignment of the user to aparticular class, and the automatic orrectionthreshold is set very high.
With thatconfiguration, most errors lead to a consultationof the user and his answer is used to increasethe weight of those criteria which would haveselected the proper answer and to weaken theweight of the others.In the above example, if the user forces thesingular, the system will increase the weight ofthe (a) and (d) criteria nd weaken the weight of(b) and (c).In the same way, the threshold will decreaseeach time the weights ,are modified until itreaches a lower limit, arbitrarily fixed or chosenby the user.However, the implementation of thesecorrection criteria in a verification-correctionsystem for agreement errors assumes that thelOtlZ;minimal unit of correction, which was a pair(governor, dependant) in the prototypedescribed in ?2, must be redefined in order torender possible the evaluation of the confidencefactor for each correction proposal.4.
A NEW CORRECTION METHODConsider for example the sentence:leSplu jeuneSplu cyclistesin que J'sinaisinrencontr~sin montaientplu d bonmas allurefem 3.It contains an agreement error in genderbetween bonmas and allurefem, and twoagreement errors in number: one-in the nominalphrase-, les lujeunes, plu cyclistesin, and the otherbetween ~e subject cychstesin and the verbmontaienttTlu.
If we choose to correct thissentence b~; forcing the plural, we introduce anew error between the past participlerencontrdsin, and its object complementcyclistes, which has became plural.
Theassociated dependency tree is shown in Fig.
1.Fig.
1: Example of a dependency treemontaient j .,,,pl?
~/Tc l i s tes~ allure/Senles jeunes que bonplup lu  ~/~s in  masJ'sin rencontr6 sinThe agreement rules which apply are then:?
agreement between determiners, adjectivesand noun inside a nominal phrase;,~ agreement between the past participle of therelative clause rencontr~ and its objectcycliste because it is placed before;?
agreement between the subject and the verb;?
agreement between the subject and theauxiliary a/in the relative clause.Reading these rules suggests dividing theverification-correction problem according toagreement dependency existing between thenodes of the tree.
We then apply the followingmethod:1) Partitioning of the tree in three sub-trees,each one connected, but not necessarilydisconnected two by two.
There must exist a3Something like: the young cyclist I have met wereclimbing at good speed.dependency between the variables (gender,number, person .... ) of the nodes of a sub-treebut no dependencythemselves:between the sub-treesallul~ed sin / fern / andJ'sin bon mosmontaient/ pluj y i c l i s te  sinles jeunes queplu ptu "~rencontr~ sinandAgree-ment innumber2) Checking of agreement rules for eachsub-tree obtained: here we exploit he previouswork by verifying only those rules which havedecided that a sub-tree was actually one.
Weverify by the classical method of tree traversingwith unification of the values of variables.
Wethen eliminate the groupj'ai, which is correct.3) ff at least one error is detected in a group,we must attempt o correct it by using theheuristics defined above.
For bonmas allurefem,we will correct in the feminine bonne allurebecause allure has no masculine.3.1) However, it is interesting to dividecomplex groups into more simple ones, alwaysaccording to the agreement rule involved.
In theexample, we will divide the first group, whichincludes the relative clause, into the three sub-trees of Fig.
2.Fig.
2: Partitioning of the treecycliste__sin (2)1 ~ cycliste, ques , .
\les jeunes \plu plu rencontr6sin( 3 ) montaientJ plucycliste sinSuch a partitioning is interesting because theagreement error in number, detected on thewhole group does not appear in all the sub-groups.
If we attempt to correct separately eachsub-group (with the criteria and the weightsdefined above) we obtain Table 2.I086Table 2: Confidence fa(a) "ib)sin plu sin plu(1) 4/3 3 1 2(2) 6 2/3 2 2(3) 2 2 2 2rtors by su(c)sin piu0 20 2L0 2~-Sr~d?Ssin piu1 01 00 1When summing the confidence factors ofthe various criteria, we obtain Table 3.Table 3: Sums of the cot~,sin~aflar(1) 3,33 (32,25%)(2) .9 (65,859'0)?
(3)  4 (4o9'0)'ence factors.... plural7 (67,75%).4,66 (34,15%)6 (6o%)If the threshold T is small enough (< 2), wecan consider les jeunes cyclistes (plural) as thegood correction for the first sub-group, thesecond sub-group is correct and the pluralcorrects the third.
But these results leave anerror on the whole group.3.2) So we must evaluate the whole groupcorrection by using the results of each sub-group.
Here again, we can exploit variouscriteria of evaluation:?
simple majority: we choose the mostfrequently selected correction in the sub-groups.
Plural wins by 2 to 1.
We could alsoweight each group according to the numberof words or to statistical criteria on errors:agreement errors on past participles usedwith the auxiliary avoir (have) are especiallyfrequent in French, due to the complexity ofthe rules involved; so the weight of thesecond sub-group would be lowered.?
proportional majority: we sum the confidencefactors of all sub-groups for each possiblecorrection.
This leads to correction in theplural (17,66) rather than the singular(16,33).
We can here again use a thresholdbelow which the conclusion is notconsidered reliable.?
weighted proportional majority which usesthe percentages and so is a mixture of thetwo previous ones: we sum the percentage ofeach sub-group.
Plural wins by 161,9against 138,1 for the singular.
Comparingwith the previous method, we weaken theimportance of the second sub-group which,being correct, has a big difference betweenthe two confidence factors.In the example, the plural wins, but when itis not possible to automatically choose the goodcorrection, the choice is left to the user.
It isthen very interesting to exploit the partitioningof the tree to ask a very relevant question to theuser:, the intersection of the three sub-trees i theword cycliste, so we can question the user asfollows:In the sentence:les jeunes cycliste que j'ai rencontrdrmmtaient d bonne allure.Did you want to say un c~ycliste (singular)or des cyclistes (plural) ?According to the answer, the wholesentence is corrected and possibly the weightsand the threshold axe updated.5.
EXTENSIONSWith these correction methods, theorganisation of the correction system is lessdeterministic.
By this, we mean that it is easierto modify its behaviour by updating the weightsor the thresholds or by adding new verificationrules.
This flexibility should make it easier toprocess syntactic ambiguities due to therelaxation of constraints during the parsingprocess.
For example the sentence: la maison del'oncle que nous avons vu(e) (the house theuncle we have seen) produces two trees inFrench if we do not consider agreement rules ingender, but produces only one if we do,depending on the gender of the past participlevu(e).
If it is feminine then we have seen thehouse, if it is masculine then we have seen theuncle.
A correction system must then, wheneverone of the two trees is correct, apply correctionrules to both of them in order to detect apossible error.
This implies that we imagine ati:aversing method of all the trees of the samesentence at the same time.
We are at presentworking on this question.The techniques presented above and thecorrection module which will result aredesigned for a complete correction systemwhere many modules cooperate in aclient/server a chitecture.
We shall then extendthe use of weights to the lexical evel, for whichwe have implemented 3 correction techniques:similarity keys, phonetics and morphology(Courtin, 91; Genthial, 92).
Each of thesetechniques proposes, for an incorrect word, alist of correction hypotheses which must besorted in decreasing likelihood order so that wegive the user only the more likely ones.
We willweighting each technique and the values ofweights will follow dynamically the types oferrors of a given user, thus allowing analternative implementation f the architectureproposed in (Courtin, 89).1087Some lexical errors can only be detected atsuperior levels (syntactic even semantic) like \[to not want for I do not want or the doc barksfor the dog barks.
These errors, named hiddenerrors (Letellier, 93), lead to a blocking of thesyntactic parsing.
Here again, the use ofprediction mechanisms (syntactic parser orstatistical model based on Markov chains),coupled with a weighting of  the proposedsolutions must al low some automaticcorrections below a given threshold.Finally, we think it is possible to implementa system making completely automaticcorrections.
The ?4 example is described in theframework of a computer aided writing system,able to deal with free texts for which it is veryhard and even impossible to produce acompletesemantico-pragmatic interpretation.
On the otherhand, if we try to build a robust man-machineinterface, then we can hope for a completelyautomatic correction because:?
in this type of applications, the lexicon isvery limited, so the number of correctionsfor a lexical error will be small;?
lexical ambiguities will also be lessnumerous and therefore the number of treesproduced will be lower;,?
we can use, to resolve syntactic ambiguitiesor to refine the above criteria, some semanticor pragmatic information which can be welldefined because of the restricted omain.6.
CONCLUSIONThe TRILAN team has at its disposal thebasic tools necessary in order to build such asystem: we have the morphological tools(analysis and generation), the phonetic tools(graphic ~ phonetic transducers) and thesyntactic tools (dependency structure builderand agreement rules).
We have started a projectof "lingware" engineerin.g to make all thesetools work together m a cl ient/serverarchitecture.
We will integrate in all thelinguistic servers the possibility of weightingtheir results each time they give multiplesolutions.
The detection and correction systemitself will be basically a controller, managing theansw.ers of  the various servers and thevariations of weights and thresholds, in order tomake the system fit to a particular user.
Our aimis to obtain a general and flexible system whichcould fit into various applications (textprocessing, man machine interface, computeraided translation).REFERENCESCarbonell, LG.
and Hayes, P.J., (1983).
RecoveryStrategies for Parsing Extragrammatical Language.AJCL, 9:3-4, pp 123-146Courtin, J., Dujardin, D., Kowarski, I., Genthial, D. andStrube de Lima, V.L., (1989).
Interactive Multi-Level Systems for Correction of Ill-Formed FrenchTexts.
2nd Scancfinavian Conference on ArtificialIntelligence, Tampere, Finland, pp 912-920.Courtin, J., Dujardin, D., Kowarski, I.. Genthial, D. andStrube de Lima, V.L., (1991).
Towards acompletedetection/correction system.
InternationalConference on Current Issues in ComputationalLinguistics, P enang, Malaysia.Chanod, J.P., (1991).
Analyse automatique d'erreurs,strat6gie linguistique et computationnnelle.Colloque lnformatique etLangue Naturelle, Nantes,France.Douglas, S. and Dale, R., (1992).
Towards RobustPATR.
15th CoLing, Nantes, France, July 92,Vol.
1. pp 239-245Genthial, D., Courtin, J. and Kowarski, I., (1990).Contribution of a Category Hierarchy to theRobustness of Syntactic Parsing.
13th CoLing.Helsinki, Finland, VoL 2, pp 139-144Genthial, D. and Courtin, J., (1992).
FromDetection/Correction  Computer Aided Writing.14th CoLing, Nantes, Vol.
3, pp 1013-1018Goeser, S., (1990).
A Linguistic Theory of Robustness.13th CoLing, Helsinki, Finland, Vol.
2, pp 156-161Granger , R.H., (1983).
The NOMAD System:Expectation-Based Detection and Correction ofErrors during Understanding of Syntactically andSemantically Ill-Formed Text.
AJCL 9:3-4, pp188-196Lapalme, G. and Richard, D., (1986).
Un syst~me decorrection automatique d s accords des participespasses.
Techniques tSciences lnformatiques 4"Letellier, S., (1993).
ECLAIR, un syst~me d'analyse tde correction lexicales multi-experts et multi-lexiques.
Th~se de Doctorat.
Paris Xl-OrsayV6ronis, L, (1988).
Contribution /1 l'6tude de l'erreurdans le dialogue homme-machine en langagenaturel.
Thdse de Doctorat, Aix-Marseille 111Wan, J., (1992).
Syntactic Preferences for RobustParsing with Semantic Preference.
15th CoLing,Nantes, France, Vol.
1, pp 239-245Weischedel, R.H. and Sondheimer, N.K., (1983).
Meta-Rules as a Basis for Processing Ill-formed Input.AJCL 9:3-4, pp 161-1777088
