LEXICAL KNOWLEDGE REPRESENTATION IN AN INTELLIGENT DICTIONARY HELP SYSTEME.
Agirre, X. Arregi, X. Artola, A. Diaz de Ilarraza, K. SarasolaInformatika Fakultatca (Univ.
of the Basque Country)P. K. 649, 20080 DONOSTIA (Basque Country - Spain) E-mail: jiparzux@si.ehu.es1 INTRODUCTION.IDItS (Intelligent Dictionary l ielp System) isconceived as a monolingual (explanatory) dictionarysystem for hum,'m use (Artola & Evrard, 92).
The factthat it is intended for people instead of automaticprocessing distiuguishes it from other systems dealingwith semantic knowledge acquisition fromconventional dictiouaries, ql~e system provides variousaccess possibilities to the data, allowing to deduceimplicit knowledge from the explicit dictionaryinformation.
IDIIS deals with reasoning mechanismsanalogous to those used by humans when they consulta dictionary.
User level functionality of the system hasbeen defined ,'rod is partially hnplementcd.q'he starting point of IDIIS is a Dictionary Database(DDB) built from an ordinary French dictionary.Meaning definitions have been analysed usinglinguistic information from the DDB itself andinterpreted to be structured ,as a Dictionary KnowledgeBase (DKB).
As a result of the parsing, differentlexical-semantic relations between word senses areestablished by means of semantic rules (attached to thepatterns); this rules are used for the initial constructionof the DKB.This paper describes tile knowledge rcprcsentatioumodel adopted in IDIIS to represent he lexicalknowledge acquired from the source dictionary.
Oncethe acquisition process has been performed and theI)KB built, some enrichment processes have becnexecuted on the I)KB in order to enhance itsknowledge about the words in the language.
Besides,the dynamic exploitatiou of this knowledge is madepossible by means of specially conceived eductionmechanisms.
Both the enrichment processes and thedynamic deduction mechanisms are based on theexploitation of the properties of the lexical semanticrelations represented in the DKB.In the following section an overview of II)IIS isgiven.
Section 3 briefly presents the process ofconstruction of the DKB.
The knowledgerepresentation model and the enrichmeut mechanismsare fully described in sections 4 and 5.
Section 6describes some inferential aspects of the system.Finally, in section 7, some figures about he size of tileprototype built are presented.2 TIIE IDIIS DICTIONARY SYSTEM.IDIIS is a dictionary help system iuteuded to assist ahuman user in hulguage comprehension r productiontasks.
The system provides a set of functions that havebeen inspired by the different reasoning processes ahuman user performs when consulting a conventionaldictionary, such as definition queries, search ofalternative definitions, differences, relations andanalogies between concepts, thesaurus-like wordsearch, verification of concept properties andinterconceptual re ationships, etc.
(Arregi et at., 91).II)IIS can bc seen as a repository of dictionaryknowledge apt to be accessed and exploited in severalways.
The system has been implemented on asymbolic architecture machiue using KEE knowledgeengineering environment.Two plmscs are distinguished in the construction oftile DKB.
Firstly, information containcd in the DDB isused to produce an initi,-d DKB.
General informationabout the cntries obtained from the DDB (POS, usage,examples, etc.)
is conventionally represented--attribute-value pairs in thc frame structure-- whilethe semantic omponent of the dictionary, i.e.
thedefinition scntenees, has been analysed andrepresented as an interrelated set of concepts.
In thisstage the relations established between concepts couldstill be, in some cases, of lexical-syntactic nature.
In asccond phase, the semantic knowledge acquisitionprocess is complcted using for that the relationsestablished in the initial DKB.
The purpose of thisphase is to perform lcxical and syntacticaldisambiguation, showing that semantic knowledgeabout hierarchical relations between concepts c,'ul bedeterminant for this.3 BUILDING TIlE DICTIONARY KNOWLEDGEBASE.
'File starting point of this system is a smallmonoliugual French dictionary (Le Plus PetitLarousse, Paris: Librairie Larousse, 1980) consistingof nearly 23,000 senses related to almost 16,000entries.
The dictionary was recorded in a relationaldatabase: the Dictionary Database (DDB).
This DDBis the basis of every empirical study that has beendeveloped in order to design the final model proposedfor representation a d intelligent exploitation of thedictionary.The definition sentences have been analysed in theprocess of transformation f tbe data contained in theDDB to produce the DKB.
The analysis mechanismused is based on hierarchies of phrasal patterns(Alshawi, 89).
The semantic structure associated toeach analysis pattern is expressed by means of aSemantic Structure Construction Rule (SSCR).
The544prncess oF construction of the I)KB is automatic andbased on these SSCR's (Artola, 93).The intcrconcelmml lexical-semantic relationsdelcclcd li'om Ihe analysis of the source dictionary areclassified into paradigmatic and synlagmatic...Mnongthe paradigmatic rclalions, the followiug have bccnfound: sylu)uy~ny au(l antonymy, laxonomic relalionsas hyperuymy/hyponymy --obtained from definitionsof type "gcnt,s et differenlia"--, aud taxonymy itself(expressed by nlcaus of specific relators uch as sortede aad espbce de), mcronymy, and others as gradation(for adjectives and verbs), equiwdcnce (betweenadjectives and past pmticiplc), factitive and rcllexivc(for verbs), lack and reference (to the previous ense).Whereas among the synlagmalic relations, i.e.
thosethai relate concepls belonging to different POS's,derivation is the most important, I)ut also relationshipsbctweell concepts without auy morphological relationits case relations, attributivc (for verbs), lack andcouforlllily have Ix3eil dclccle(l,The hierarchies created have already been used toparse all Ihe noun, verb, and adjective definitions inthe \])l)B.
The hierarchy devoted to aualyze nountit',f tuitions is formed with 65 l)attcrns, 49 differcutpatlerns have been dcfiued lo analyze verb delinilion,%aud 45 for a(\[jectives.
Although it is a partial parsingprocedure, 57.76% of noun dcfinitious, 79.8% o1 verbsand 69.04% of those corresponding toa(!jeclivcs havebeen Iotally "caught" it, Ihis al)plication, l lowcver,wilh this technique of partial parsing, the parse isconsidered successful when all initial phrase slructureis recognized, which iu general contains Ihe gCllUS orSul)erordinatc oF Ihe delincd sense.
This is not so lbrI hc  case  oF l cx ioograph ic  mela - langt lage  cons l ruc t io l !
s(specific relators), whose corresponding semanticstructure is built in a specific way and which deservealso spccilic patterns in the hierarchk:s.4 Ili,~PRI,;SI,;NTATI\[ON OF TI lE I) ICTIONARYKN(IWLI,;I)(;E: T I lE  I)KB.As we have just seen, the knowledge reprcscntadouscheme chosen for the I)KB of IDIIS is composcd ofthree clemenls, each of thetn structured as a dilTerentknowledge base:KI3-TIII~SAURUS is the reprcsentatio,l el  thediclionary as a semautic network of frames, whereeach li'alne rcprcsenls a Olle-word collcepl (wordseuse) or a phrasal concept.
Phrasal conceptsrcpresent phrase structures associated to theoccurrence of concepts in meaning definilions.Frames ..... or trails--- are interrelated by slotsrcpreseutiug lexical-semanlic rclati(ms such assynonymy, taxonomic relations (hypcrnymy,hyponymy, and taxonymy ilselD, mertmymicrelations (parl-of, cl('menl-of, sctoof, member-oD,specific rclalions rcali:;cd by nleallS of lllela-.linguistic relators, casuals, elc.
Olhcr :;lois col|laiuphrasal, inetadinguislic, and general itfformali(m.KB-I) ICTIONARY allows access from thediclionm-y word level lo the conesponding conceptlevel in Ihc DKBo Ihfils in Ihis kuowledge 1)asercp,'esem Ihe elltries (words) of flu: dictionmy andare directly linked to their corresponding senses inKB-TI IESAURUS.
* KB-STRUCTURES contains recta-knowledgeabout concepts and relalions in KB-DICTIONARYaud KB-'IIIESAURUS: all the different structuresin tim DKB arc defined here specifying thecorresponding slots aud describing the slots bymeans of facets Ihat specify their value ranges,inherilaucc modes, etc.
Units in KB-TIIESAURUSaud KB-I)ICTIONARY m'e subclasses or instancesof classes defined in KB-STRUCI'URES.Fig.
1 gives a parlial view of tim three knowlcdgebases which form the DKB with their correspondentunits and Ihcir inter/inlra relationships.In tim KB-TIIESAURUS, some of the linksrepresenting lexicat-semmltic relations are createdwhen buildiug Ihe initial version of the knowledgebase, while others are deduced later by means ofspecially conceived eduction mechauisms.When a dictionary entry like spatule I I: aerie decuiller plate (a kind of flat Sl)Oon) is treated, newconcept unils arc created in KB-TIII';SAURUS (audsubsidiarily iu KB-DICTIONAR.Y) and linked toolhers previously included in il.
l)uc to the ellct:l ofthese links new wflucs lot some l)roperlies arcpropagaled flmmgh the resulliug taxonomy.~--  KB 'S ' fRUCTURI~'S  LKII .STRUC ( I I R E-~4 .
.
.
.
i.~- ....... C tIN C,,21"ft/ ~ .x  ~ ...... N \[ .... ---" f J "  \ " -~  -.\Ra:e~u~scJ~.s Iz"  ~.
\ AMB GIJOUS- !I!NIIRIILS . '
/ /  I TYlq~: UONCEIZFS DF.FINFI'IONS \]Fig.
1.- The l)ictionary Kliowlcdge Base.'
~ SUB(2I,ASS link- - - MI:.MP, I';R-OF liuk (instance)(1) Taxollomic Relalion: IIYPERNYM/t|YI'ONYM(2) Specili?
(melaqlngulsllc) relaiknl: SORTP;.DE/SO|rfI';-DF, INV(K\[ND-OlqKINI)-OF+INV)(3) CARACfERISTIQUI~,/CARA(YEERISTI(2UI{#INV(PROI)I/RTY/PROPI;.RTY+IN V) relafiou(4) MOTS-FNTRIiE/SENS (I'2NTRY--WORD/WORD.SENSE) rclatiolxIn tile example, although it is not explicit in fl~cdefinition, spatuh, is "a kind oF' ustensile m~d so it willinherit ,;ome of its characteristics (depending upox~ theiuheritance role of each attribnte).
Fig.
1 lose showsthe types of couecpts used: spatule 1 1 and cuiller l Iare uoun definitions and considered subclasses ofENTITII'~S while plat I 1 (an adjective) is a sulx:lass ofQUALITIF.S.
The phrasal concept unit representingthe noun phrase cuiller plate is treated as a l,yponymof its nuclcar conccpt (cuil&r 1 1).4.1 KII-STi{UCTURES: the recta-knowledge.This knowledge base reflects the hierarchicalorgauisation of tile knowledge included in the I)KB.We will focus on the LKB-STRUCTURES classwhich defines the data types used in KB-DICTIONARY and KB-TIIESAURUS, and thatorganises the units belonging to these knowledge basesinlo a taxonomy.Slots defined in KB-STRUCTURI';S haveassociatcd aspects such as the value class, theinheritance role detcrmiuing how values in children'sslots me calcttlated, and so ou.
Each lcxical-scmanticrelation --xeprcs(-ntcd by an attribute or slot--  has itsown inheritance role.
For instance, the inheritance roleof the CARACTI~.RISTIQIJL: relation slates that everyconcept inherits the union of the valucs of thehypenlyms lot tltat relation, whilc the role dclincd fi)rIhc SYNONYMES relation inhibits value inheritancefrom a concept o ils hylxmyms.The subclasses defined under LKB-STI(UCTURFSare the following:o ENTRII~,S, that groups dictionary entries belongingto KB-DIC~I'IONARY;I)ElqNITIONS, that groups word senses classifiedaccording to their lOS;o REFI~;RI~:;NCI~;S, concepts created in KB-TI IESAURUS due to their occuncnce in definitionsof other concepts ("definitionlcss");?
CONCEVFS, that groups, under a conceptual pointof view, word senses aud other conceptual utfits ofKB-TIIESAURUS.The classification of conceptual units under this lastclass is as follows:?
TYPE-CONCEPTS correspond to Quillian's(1968) "type nodes"; this class is, in fact, like asupcrclass under which every concept of KB-TIII2SAURUS is placed.
It is fi~rthcr subdivided inthe classes ENTITII'?.S, ACTIONS/F.VF.NTS,Q\[JALITIES and STAq'ES, that classify differenttypes of concepts.?
P I IRASAL-CONCEPTS is a class that includesconcepts s imi lar  to Qui l l iau's "tokens".--occurrences of type concepts in the delinitio,iscnlcnccs--.
Phrasal concepts ,'u'e the representationof phrase stn~ctures which are composed by severalconcepts with semantic ontent.
A phrasal couccptis always built as a subclass of the class which,cpresents its head (the nouu of a noun phrase, theverb of a verb phrase, and so on), and integrated inthe conceptual taxonomy.
Phrasal concepts arec lassi f ied into NOMINALS,  VERBALS,A1)JFL;TIVALS, ~md AI)VERBIALS.For iustance,' Iplaute I 1#31 is a phrasal concept (seeFig.
2), subclass of the type concept Iplaute I 11, andrepresents he noun phrase "une plante d'ornement".?
Finally, the concepts that, after the analysis phase,are not yet completely disambiguated (lexicalambignity) ,  are placed under the classAMBIGUOUS-CONCEI rFS ,  which is furthersubdivided into the subclasses I IOMOGRAPIIE(e.g.
Ifacult6 ?
?1), SENSE ( IpanserI  ?1), andCOMPLEX (Idouner I 5/61), in order to distinguishthem according to the level of ambiguity theypresent.The links between units iu KB-TIII\]SAURUS andKB-DICTIONARY are implemented by means of slotstagged with the n,'une of the link they represent.
Theseslots are defined in the different classes of KB-STI~.UC~I'URI:S.The representation model used in the system ismade up of two levels:?
Definitory level, where the surface representation fthe def in i t ion of each sense is made.Morphosyntactic features like verb mode, dine,determination, etc.
arc represented by means offaeets attached to the attributes.
The defiuitory levelis implemented using representational ttributes.Examples of this kiud of attributes are: DEF-SORTI:D, 1) t'."
F-QUI, CARACTERISTIQUE andAVEC.o Relational level, that rellccts the relational view ofthe lexicon.
It supports the deductive behaviour ofthe system and is made up by means of relationalattributes, that may eventu,'dly contain deducedknowledge.
These attributes, defined in the classTYPE-CONCEPTS, are the implementation f theiuterconceptual relations: ANTONYMES, AGENT,CARACTI~.RISTIQUE, SORTI:.-I)E, CE-QUI, etc.4.2 KB-I)ICT1ONARY: from words to COliCepl,',;.This knowledge base represents he links between eachdictionary entry and its senses (see link 4 in Fig.
1).4.3 KB-T I IESAURUS:  the concept network.KB-TIIESAUI~,US stores the concept network that isimplemented asa network of frames.
Each node ill thenet is a fnune that rcpresent.s a conceptual unit: one-word concepts and phrasal concepts.The ~cs interconnect |lie concepts and representlexical-semantic relations; they are implemented bymeans of frame slots containing pointers to otherconcepts.
I Iypcruym and hyponym relations have beenmade explicit, making up a concept axotlonty.
Thesetaxonomic relations have bccn implemented using theenvironment hierarchical relationship, in order to getinheritance automatically.Let us show an example.
The representatiou f thefollowiug dclinitiongdranium I 1: une plante d'ornement546rcqltires the el'cation of two new conccplual units inTIII ';SAURUS: Illo OIkO which coircspotlds to Ihcdcfiuicndum and Ihc phrasal COlkCCpt which rcpresculsIhc nOkltk phrase of  t im dclinition.
Morcovcr, the IInilswhich rcprcsen!
plante and ornement  are lo be createdalso (if they have not been previously crcatcd becausetheir occuklence ill another definiiiou).l , c t  us suppose that three new trails arc created:Igdranium I 11, Iplamc 1 11131 mid lonmnmnt 111.Altdbutes ilk tile units may contain laccts (attribulesfor the allribtllcs) used in the dcfinitory level to recordaspects like dctcrmination, genre and so on, but also toestablish the relations bclwccn delinitory allrihuleswith their corresponding rclalitmal, el to specify thecertainly that the value in a rcprcscntational thibutchas to be "promoted" It) a con csponding rclational (scchclow like case of like slol I)F, in Iplanlc I 11131).Following is given Ihe COmlX)sition of tim liamcs ofdmsc three unils at Ihc dcf in i lory level ofrcprcsentatkm (slots ave in small capitals whereas lacctidcn|ificrs are ill italics):Igfranium I 11MEMBIr.R.OF: NOMS( ;I)OUI'F,-(TNfEGOR II*~L: NOMCIASSI?-AITRIII\[H': INI"O-(il';NERAId'~TI:XTF,-I)I':FIN1TION: "llII,J t~hmtc d'orncmcnt"CIASSI'LA'I'IRIIIU1;" INFO (;I,~VERALI:I)I;.F-CI,ASSIQUF,: Iplantc I 1#31C'IA.%'EA1TRIBUI': DEFINITOIRI'SDI;fFRMINAIION: UNt;k'NRE: FI~EIA'ITONN1"IS-CORRI(SI'ONDANI"S: DI';FINIq'ARIplante i 1#31b;IJBCI,ASS.OF: Iplantc l 11MISMIII{IGOF: NOMINAI,ESTI(XTI;,: "\[:.\]alltl3 d'Olllclnell1"CIASSI'~ ATI'RlflUT: INI"O-(;I,?NliRALI iI)P2 Iornement I ItCIASSF~-ATfRIItIH?
SYNI)I(13b'(FIQUI:;'~"RI'3A11ONNEL%CORRESPONDANI'S: Oh'It;INK.
POSSI!'S,Yl;,UR,,MAIIERI';.
OIUliCflF011.11,~c7"11,': 0,9lovnemenl I 11MI"MIW, R.OF: RI".FliRI!NCFSBefore showing Ihe representation f these units atthe rclalional evel, it has It) be said that after the inilkdI)KB has been built some deductive procedures havebeen cxccutcd: e.g.
dcduclion of inverse relationships,taxonomy formation, etc.
It is to say that in l;ig.
2,where the rehktional view is presented, Ihc relationsdeduced by Ihesc procedures arc also rcprcscntcd.The coaccptual units in TIIF, SAUI(US am placcd ilktWO layeks (see Fig.
2), rccallillg tile two plalles ofQuillian.
The upper layer coffesponds to tylv conceptswhereas ill the lower phrasal concepts are placed.Every phrasal concept i,,; phlccd in |he taxonomydirectly depending from its nuclear concept, as ahyl~mym of it.It is inlcrcsling {o nolicc it) tile ligurc the relation ofconceptua l  equ iva lence  establ ished betweenIg6ranium I 11 and Iplanlc 1 11131 (link labelled (3)).These units represent, in fact, Ihc same conceptbecause Iplantcl  11131, standing IOf "title p lanted 'ornement" ,  is lhc dclinition of Ig&anium I 11.f -(1) 'l'axolm role r?lado.:Fig.
2.
Relational view of Ihc concept Iv6rauium 1 11(in the TIIILSAURUS net).The lianlc of Ig6ranium 1 II at the relational level ofrepresentation lakes the hkllowing aspect, once therelational atlxibules have been (partially) COmlfletcd:Ig6ra,dum 111SUn(:I,ASS.Ot;: F,N'I1TF, S, Iplante I 11MEMBER.OF: NOMS(;Rokaq~ 4 ~ATI:GORII'~I,: NOMCIASSI'.ATI'RIIIUT" INI,'O-UI:WEI~I3:'I'I~X'I'I'~ I)I'~\],INIII()N: "Ulle plante d'ornelnent"CIASSF.-AYTRIBUI~ INFO-GENERAIJgDEF-CI.ASSIQUE: fl,lante I l#31CIA&TE-ATTRIBIH9 ItI(I'TNIJ'OIRI"~"DKITqI?MINA'I7ON: UNGENRt';: I"II EIA TIONNI'~I.% CORRIL~I'ONDANI;~: DI?FINI-I~A RDEHNIopAR: Iphmte I 1#31CIASSF.oA'ITRIB(/I:" RI';IAITONNEIS"INVEI?SkL%CORRI(SI'ONDANIS: DI'Lt;INI'lION-DEt)BJI;.CIIF: Iornement IIIC'IAGYE-AITRIBI/I': RI'~IATIONNI'~LYINVFRSI~%UORRFSI'ONDANTS: 0IUECTIF41NVLet us show now another exmnlfl?.
It is the case oftwo definitions stated by means of  two difR:rekktstcrcotylmd lbmullac belonging to lhe lexicographicmcta-hmguage.
Mauy verbs in the LPPI, are dclinedby means of a formula beginning with "rendre" andmany notms with one beginning with "qui".
Thedcliailions selected for this example correspond to theChilies pub l ie r  I 1 aml a jus teur  I 1, which arereprescuted al II ,c definilory level using the mela-.language attributes I) EILIH;,NDRI{ and 1) E F-QUIrcswctively:pub l ie r  1 1: remlre pub l i ca jus teur  I 1:  qui a juste des p i~ces de radialThe tranm con'csponding to Ipublier I 11 is ritefollowin g:Ipubller 1 11MFMBFR.OF: VERBI~,S( i I,~ OUPI{-C ATI'X; O1Ul';\[ ,: VI;,RIt F,CIASSI?-AITRIBU'f : INI.
'O-GF.NERAIZTI';XTF, q)EIqNITR)N: "ren(h'e public"CIASSI';-AITIClBUI'; INI"O-GbXVERAI d*;DEF-I)I'~NI)RFZ Ilmblic I IICIASSI'LAITRIBUf : DEI,'INII"OIR 'I~';REIA ITONNI(IS - CORRIL~I'ONDANI"S: RlhVDREwhere it can be sceu that no phrasal concept ixinvolved because the l ink 0)EF-RF.NI)IU';) isestal)l ished directly between Ipubliel I 11 and/;47Ipublic I 11.
Ilowevcr, in the case of the definition ofajusteur 1 1, two phrasal concepts are created: timattribute DEF-QUI points to the phrasal concept lajusterI 1 # 1 I, representing "ajuster des pi?
:ces de mdtal", andthis phrasal concept, in turn, has a syntagmaticattribute (OBJE'I) pointing to a nominal Ihat represents"piece de mdtal", l~et us show the frames involved inthis last case:laJustettr \[ I IM EMIn.iR.OF: NOMSG ROUPE-CATI~AJORIEL: NOMCIASSE-AITRIBUT: INFO-GENERALETEXTE-DEIqNITION: "qui ajuste des pib.ces de radial"CIASSF-ATI'RIBfZY: INFO-GFAVERALEDEF-QUI: hjuster I l# IICIASSF-A?TRIBIZf : DEFINITOIRF~MODE: 11'41)ASI'FCI': NI'TFAtPS: I'RI'~"I'ERSONNE: 3RHATIONNEIS'-CORRI-~'PONDAP\[?S: QUIIn luster  I i f l lSUBCLASS.OF: \[njustcr 1 IIMEMBF.R.OF: VI" .RBALESTEXTE; "ajuster des pisces de radial"CIASSI:~A 1TRIB 07:.
tNI,'O- G~ERA IJSOUJE-r: IpR~,ce I 1#21CIASSE~A~\[TRIBU?
: SYNFAGMATIQUI'~7DIQ'ERMINATION: UNNOMBRE: PI.RELAllONNEL~'.CORRI:SI'ONDANT& TIIEMEIlri~ce 1 1#21SUBCLASS.OF: Ipi~ce I IIMEMItER.OF: NOMINALESTEXTE: "piece tic mdtal"CIASSE-ATI'RIBUI~: INFO-GI'hVERAI EDE: Imdtal I ItCIASS'E-A11'RIBIfK: SYNI"AGMA'ITQUI,L7REI ATIONNEL,';;oCORRESPONDANFS: ORIGINE, POS,e, lfSSE(IR,MATIERE, OBJI'JCTIFMATIFRE: 0.9Frequently, phrased concel)tS represent "mllabcllcd"concepts, i.e., they iudeed represent concepts that donot have a significant in the language.
For instance,there is not, at least in French, a verbal conceptmeaning 'ajuster des pi~ces de radial' nor a nouumeaning 'piece de radial'.
I Iowevcr, tiffs is not the c~L~,cof tim phrasal concepts that are linked to type conceptsby means of the relation I)EFINI-PAI~,/DEFINrrlON-I)F.,because there, the phrasal concept is, in fact, anotherrcprcsemation f Ihc concept bcing defincd (see abovetim example of the definition of gdranium I i).
In therepresentation model proposcd in this work, phrasalconcepts denote concepts that are typically cxpressedin a periphrastic way and that do not have necessmilyany corresponding entry in the dictionary 1.Another intcrcsting lmint related to the creation ofthesc phrasal couccpts is the maintenance of directlinks bclwc?,u a concept and ~dl tile occnrrences of tiffsconcept in the definition sentences of other eonccpts.
It1 "nits coohl bc very interesting also, in tile opinion of tile authors, in amultilingual environment: it is l~ssible that, in auother language, tire conceptequivalent o that which has beer~ represented by tire phra.~al conceptIpit~ce I 1#21 Ira.,; ils own sigltificant, a word that denotes it, In this case, thephrasal concept based representation may be useful to represent heexluivalence b tween both concepts.gives, in fact, a virtual set of usage examples that maybe useful for different functions of the final system.5 ENRIC I lMENT PROCFSSES PERFORMEDON THE DKB.In this section tim cnrichment processes accomplishedon the DKB are explained.
Two phases aredislinguished: (a) the enrichment obtained during theconstruction of the initial DKB, and (b), wheredifferent tasks concerning mainly tim exploitation ofthe properties of synonymy and taxonymy have beenperformed.5.1 Enrichment obtained during the construction ofthe initial I)KB.KB-TI IESAURUS itself, represented - -as  anetwork--- at the relational level, can be considered anenrichment of the definitory level becanse, while theDKB was built, tim following processes have beenperformed:.
Values coming from file definiiory k;vel have beenpromotcd to the relational level.?
Values coming from the nnit which represents thetiefiniens havt: been transferred to thecorresponding definiendum unit.The maintcnancc of the relations in both directionshas been antomalically guamntccd.?
"Ille concepts included in REFERENCES have becndirectly related to other concepts.The taxonomy of coneepls has bccn made explicit,thus obtaining wduc iuhcritanee.5.2 Second phase in tile enr ichment of the DKB,Several processes have tmeu carried out in order toinfer new facts to be asserted in tile DKB 2.
"lheenrichment obtained in this phase concerns tim twofollt)wing aspects:o Exploitation of the properties of the synonylny(symmetric and transitive).
* Enlargement of the concept taxonomy based onsynonymy.Another aspect that has been considered to beexploitexl in this phase is that of disambiguation, qheuse of the lexical-sentantic knowledge abouthierarchical relations contained in the DKB can bedetcnninant in order to reduce tim level of lexical andsyntactical ambiguity 3. l leuristics based on thetaxonomic and synonymic knowledge obtainedpreviously have been considered in tiffs phase.
Someof them have been designed, implemented andcwlluatcd in a sample of the DKB.2 By tnear~s of rules fired following a forward chaining strategy.3 Lexical ambiguity comes from tile definitions themselves; yntacticalambiguity is due lroinly to the anadysis process,5486 INFERENTIA l ,  ASPECTS:  DYNAMICDEDUCTION OF KNOWLEI )GE.I)ynalnie acquisition of knowlcdgc deals with theknowledge not explicitly represented ill the 1)KB aqdcaptured by means of especial ly conceivedmechanisms which ,arc aelivaled when thc system is toanswer a question posed by the user (Arregi et al, 91).Thc lollowing ,aspect,,; 'u'e considered:?
Inheritance (concept taxouomy).Composition o1 lexic~d relations.Links bctweeu concepts and relations: users areallowed to use actual concepts to denoterelationships (and not only primitive rclatious).. Anlbiguity ill file DKB: trealnlent of reraainingimccrlainty.In the following, some aspects couccnliug to Ihesecoud point will be discusscd.lu IDIIS, Ihe relationships atnoug the diffcrenllcxical-semautic relations can be easily expressed in adeclarative way.
It is tile way of expressing these,elationships that is cMled Ihc composition of lexicalrelations.
From an operative poiat of view, thismechanism permits the dyuamic exploitation --underIhc user's requests--- nf Ihe tnopcrties of Ihe lexicalrelations in a direct maturer.
It is, in fact, a way ofacquiring iml)licit knowledge Ii'om II,c DKB.The declarative aspect of the mcchanism is basedon the definilion of triples: each llil)le expresses arelationship among difli'.reut lcxical-scmanlic relations.These Iriples have thr, form (R l R 2 R3), where R ireprescnls a lexical rehdiou 4.
The opel alive eflgct ofthese declarations is Ihe dynalnic crealiou ofIrausitivity rules based on the triples stated.
Thel, cueral fornl of these rules is file lbllowing:i fXR  lYandY I (  2ZthenXR 3ZWhea the value(s) of the attribute R3 are asked, areading demon (attached to the attribute) creates therule aqd tires the reasoning l)rocess with a backward-chaitling strategy.
The deduced lhcts, if ;lily, will notbe asserted in lint: I)KB, but in a telnpora\[y context.l"or instance, tile prol)lenl of Irausitivily inmcronymic relations (Cruse, 86; Winston et al, 87)can be easily expressed by slating the triple (PARTll';~I)F, PARTIE-I)F PARTIE-I)\[!)
but not slating, furitlslat~ce, (I'AR'IIE-I)I'; MI~MBRIM)P; PARTII;iq)I';), lhllscxprcssiug that the Irmlsilivity in tile secolld case is nottrue.
Examples of uther triples that have been staled intilt; sys len l  a re :?
( \ ] t ) l l l b i l l a t io l l  ()1" l / l e ronyn l i c  aud  ln ) l l - luc ro l ly l l l i crelalioas:(PARTIF,-|)I'; L(X2ATII; I..OCATII ;)(I.OCATIF IIYPEI(ONYME IX~K;ATIF)(MEMBRE-I)E I1YPEF, ONYMI'2 MEMBI~d';-I)I';)4 The rcsull of tim hau,silivity iule that will Ire cJe~tcd witi bc the dcductimt elvalues lilt tile.
R 3 attlibute.. "llle Iriple.
'; arc t,lored ill a facet of It 3.?
Combinat iol l  of  relations derived front thedelinilion metaolanguage:(CARA(TI'I';RISTIQUE QItI-A I'OSSESSION)(OBJEC'I IF CE-QUI OBJECTIF)Explicit rules of lexical composition cau Ix~ ilsc(lwhen the general form of the triplcs is not valid.
Theserules are uscxl following the same re`asoning strategy.Following is givcn the rule dcrived tYom the lastIriple and one insl;mee of it.
By means of this ruleinstance, the lact that tile purpose of a gdranium is theaction of orner is deduced from the delinitions ofgdranium and orttemettt:if X OBJFCrIF Y and ;;; the objective of X is Y (entity)Y CE-QUI Z ;,;; Y "est ce qui" Z (action)then X ouJt.
:c-rll~Z ;;; the objective of X is Z (action)If Ig&anium 1II oBnKYI'|F Iornement I II andIonlcment II I  CF.-QUI orner IIIthen Igdraniunl I II OltJF.Orll zIorner III7 T I lE  I 'ROTOTYPE OF  IDIIS: SIZE OF TI IEI)KILFollowing some ligures are given in order to showthe size of tim prototype obtained alter the initialconshuction of the DKB.
This l)rotntype contains auimporlant subset of the source dictionm y.KIM)ICrIONNAIRI~ contains 2400 entries, eachone rcprcsentiug one word.
KB-TI IESAURUScomains 6130 conceptual units; 1738 units of these arcphrasal concepts, in this Kilt there arc 1255 mnbig~lousconccpls.
Once the initial coastmction phase wasfinished, 19691 relatioual arcs -- intercouceptualrclalionships--- had been established.After Ihe enrichment llroccsses, the mnnbcr ofrelational links have been incremented up to 2180{)(10.7%).
it has been estimated that, using themechanism of lexical composition, the numberintcrconceptual relations could reach an incremcnt ofbetwccn 5 and 10% 5.8 CONCLIISIONSoA frame-based kuowlcdge representation model hasbeen described?
This model has been m;ed in anIntelligent Dictionary llelll System to represent thelexical knowledge acquired automatically I'ronl aconventional dielionm-y.The characterisadon f the different iuterconcepm~dlcxical-semantic relations is tile basis lot the prolx~stxlmodel and it has becu established as a result of timanalysis process c,'micd out on dictionary delinitkms.SewaM emichmcnt pmta~sscs have bccn pcrlbnnedon the DKB ~--after tile initiM consh'uction--- in orderto add new l~lct,'; to it; these processes are bascxl on theexploitatiou of the properties of lexical--scmanficrelalious.
Moreover, a mechanism li)r acquiring ~--4n a@namic way- -  knowlcdgc not explicitly reprc~etttcd3 Considering o, ly  fl,~ set o!
|ripk~..~ dcdarcd tmtil no,v.549in lit(: DKB is proposed.
'lhis mechanism is based onthe composi\[ion t)l lcxicai relations.I~ I~;ICEREN ( ~,ES,AlshawL Iio (1989).
Al~alysi~g dictionary deihfitionsm B. Boguraev, T. Briscoe eds., pp.
153-.169~Computational l,e?icography for Natnral LanguageProcessing.
New Yolk: I ,ongman.Amsler, R.Ao (1981)o A. Ta?onomy fur English Nounsand Verbs, Plot.
19th Annual Meeting A(_Z, pp.
133-1:38.Arango Gaviria, G. (15)83).
Une approche pouramomer le pwcessus & comprdhensiota el d'utilisa*iot,du sens des mo~s en langage nagurel.
These tie 3~mecycle (P~nis VI).
Pnblica/ious du Gtou~ tic Rcz:hcr(:hc( liat~de Fr~m~ois Pic~ud.Arrcgi X?, X. A~tola, A. Diaz tie lkura~a, F. Evrard, KoSarasola (1991).
Apmximaci6n funcitmal a I)IAC:l)iccionark) inteligen(~: de ayuda a la cemprcnsi6tLPro< SEPLN, 11, pp.
127=138oA~:tola X., I v. Evrard.
(1992)o l)ictiommire intelligen!d'aide h la compr6hension, Aclas I1/ Congreso Int.EURALEX'90 (Benalm,/tdena), pp~ 45-57.
Barcekma:B iblograph?Artola Xo (1993)o "ilIZTSUA: lIiztegi-sistema urDrt.lca(lime~dunaren sorkuntza eta eraikuntza /Conccptiond'un syst~,me intelligent d'aide dictionnarialc (SIAl))"Ph.D. Thesis.
UPV-I?,tlU.Boguraev B., T. Briscoe eds.
(1989).
ConqmtationalLexicography for Natural Language Processing.
NewYolk: 1 .ongman.Byrd R.J., N. Calzolari, M.S.
Chodomw, .I.L.
Klavmls,M.S.
Nell, O,A.
Rizk (1987).
Tools and Mclhods forComputational l.exicography, ComputationalLinguistics 13, 3-4, pp.
219-240.Calzolmi, N. (1984).
Machine-readable diction~u'ics,lexical data bases and the lcxical system, Prec.COLING (SUmdford Univ.
), p. 460.Calzolari N., E. Picchi (1988).
Acquisition of semanticinlbnnation liom an on-line dictionary, Prec.
COLING(Budapest), pp.
87-92.Chtxlorow M.S., R.J. Byrd (1985).
Exuacting semantichierarchies from a large on-line dictionary, Prec.
A CL,pp.
299-304.Chouraqui E., E. Godbert (1989), Rcprdsen|alion tiesdescriptions ddfitlies dans un r6scau s6mantique, Actes7&he Congr~s Reconnaissance des Formes etIntelligence Artificielle (AFCET-INRIA, Paris), pp.855-868.Copestake, A.
(1990).
An approach to building tilehierarclfical element of a lexical knowledge base froma machine-readable dictionm'y, paper ead at First Int.Workshop on Inheritance in NLP (Tilburg).Crnse D.A.
(1986).
Lexical Semantics.
Cambridge:Cmnbridge University Press.wm den llurk I., W. Meijs.
The dictionary as a coqms:analyzing i.DOCE's definition-language, CorpusLinguistics II, pp.
9%125.l.itkowsky K.C.
(1978)o Models of.tim semanticstructure of dictionarics,"American Journal o\[Computational Linguistics, ME 81, ppo 25-74.Ma~kowi~z J.0 T?
Ahlswcdc, M. Evens (1986)oScman|ieaHy significant pat~cn~a m dictionarydelinitious, Proco 24th Annual Meeting ACL (NewYork), pp.
112d 19?Pazienza M.T., 1'.
Velardi (1987)o A structuredrepresentation u\[ word.senses for semantic analysis,l)rec, grd Europe.an Cotgerence A CI, (Copenhagt~en),pp.
2/t9-.257.Quillian M.R, (1968).
Semanlie Memory in M.
Minskyed., pp.
227-270, Semam'ic Information Processing.Cmxlbrklge 0Vlas&): MIT Press?Tsurumam ll?, T?
llitaka, S. Yoshida (1986).
Anattempt to au/omatic thesatm~s conslraelion froln anordinary japanese language dicthmary, Prec.
COLING(Bonn), pp.
445+447+Vossen P., W. Meijs, M. den Breeder (1989)+ Mcanin)+m~d structure in dicliona~y deiinltions in B. Boguracv,T.
Briscoc eds., pp.
171.-192, ComputationalLexicography.lbr Natural Language Processing?
NewYork: l.,ongmm~.Wilks Y., 1).
Fass, G. (ihcng.-Ming, J?E.
Mcl)onald, T?Plate, B.Mo Slator (1990).
Providing MachineTractable l)ictionary Tools, Machine 2)anslalion, no.5, pp.
99.I54oWioston M.E?, R. Chaffin, D. Ilemmnm (198'1).
ATaxonomy of Pmt-Whoh~ Relations, CognitiveScience, no.
12, pp.
417o444,550
