Constituent lloundary Parsing for Exanll)lo-lkised Maclhine Tr,'inslationOsamu FUI,~I.JSF.
and l l i toshi \ [ IDAATR Interpreting Telocomnlunicat ions Research LaboratoriesAbst ractThis paper i)roposes an effective parsing nicthod forexamlile-based machine transhltiOl~.
In this method, aninput string is parsed by the tOl)-down aplflication oflinguistic patterns consisting ol  variables andconstituent boundaries.
A constituent boundary isexpressed by either a functional word or a l)art-of..speechbigram.
When structural ambiguity occurs, the mostplausible structure is selected usin b, tile total values ofdistance calculations in tile oxanll)le-basod Iraillework.Transfer-Driven Machine Translation (TDMT) achievesefficient aitd robust ranslation within the example-basedframework by adopting this parsing method.
Using bi-directional translation between Japanese and Vnglish> tileeffectiveness of this method in TDMT is nlso shown.1 I n t roduct ionI-xample-basod franieworks are increasingly beingapplied to machiilo translatioi/, since th0y c~.ill )rovidoefficient and robust processing (Nagao, 1984; Sate,1991; Sumita, 1992; Furuse, 1992; Watanabe, 1992).However, in order to make tilt best use o1 the a(.lv:.lnlagesof an example-based fl'amcwork, it is essential toeffectively integrate an example-based method anti sourcelanguage analysis.
Unfortunately, whcll all exainl)le-based nletiiod ix combined with a SOUFC0 lnnguagoanalysis inelhod having cOlnl)lox l~r~illilliflr rules, pullinga heavy load eli translalion, the advai/lai;os of lheexample-based franiowork iilay l)e ruined.
To achieveefficient and robnst processing by the exanii)lc-basodframework, a lot of sttldies have beell nlado for thepui\])ose of combining source lal!gtiage analysis with allexample-based method, lind of efficiently covering theanalyzed source langilllge strtiCttlro by me;illS of trailsfcrknowledge (Grishman, 1992; Jollcs, 1992; McLean,1992; Manlyama, 1992, 1993; Nirenburg 1993).One wily to reduce tilt load of source langua!,,canalysis ix to directly apply trallSl'cr knowledge to allinput siring, which sinlultaneously executes bothsiruciinal parsing aiM transfer knowlc.dgo al)lHicationthrough pattorll-il/atchii/g, l:'allerll-nlalchi~ig does liot risegrainillaticaI symbols such as "Notlil Pliraso", but usessurfi.ice words an(\] non-granlmalical synlbols.
Therefore,in patlern-matching, rule coml)otition is reduced, andlinguistic structure is expressed in a simpler mannerthall ill gramnmr-based parsing.
Thus, pattern-nlatcifingachieves efficient 1)arsing.
It is also useful in treatingspoken language, which sometimes deviates fromconvcntion:ll grammar, while grammar-based p,'lrsing hasdifficulty treating ilnreslricle(l spoken I\[ingllll,ge.This pal)Or proposes a constituom boundary parsingmethod based on paltorn-niatching, and shows itseffeclivonoss for spoken langnago translation within theexaniple-I)asod framework.
In otlr parsing method, aiiinl)Ut string .is applied linguistic patterns e?pressingsome linguistic constitticnts and their bonnds-lrios, in atop-down f:.tshion.
\Vhon structural anlbiguity occurs,tile most phlusi/)lo structure is selected rising the totalvahios of dislanco calculations in ti lt example-basedlrs-Illiowork.
Shico the description of a linguistic ps-itternis sinlplo, it is easy to update by adding f0etlback.A constiLuonl boundary ixusing method using nuituali l lfoii l lation i~ l)roposed in (M,'lgerlflan 1990).
Thismethod accouilts for the unrestricted lls-ltLlra\] langtlage andis efficient, llowever, it tends to be illacctirate> anddifficult, to ad(l feedback to, since it completely dependson st'ltistical information withoul, resort to a linguisticviewpoint.
On the cont,ary> in order to achieve accurateparsing and Iransb'ition, our conslituent boundary parsingmethod implicitly incorporates grammatical informationinto p'ltterns, e.g.
constituent boundary description by ai)art-of-sl)eech bigrani, and classification of i)ailernsaccording lo linb, uislic levels such s.ls simple sentence,tlrld tlOtHI l)hrase.Tlal lsfer-Orivell  Maehillo TranslatiOll (T I )MT)(\[:tlrtiso> 1992, 1994) uses tile COl/Stil.llont botlndary1)a~sint ,, liielhod l)l'eSollto(l in this paper, as an alternativeto glamliiar-based ali:.ilysis, aiKI lliakos the i)ost ilSe ofthe ex:lmplo-based framework.
A bidirectional translationsyslcnl between Jap,'lnesc lind English for dialoguesentences concerning international conferenceregislralions has been illlplenlented (Sobashima, 1994).l~xperimonts with the systonl have shown ollr parsingiiicthod I() t~ effcctive.Section 2 defines patterns expressed by variables andcon.<;liluont boundaries.
Section 3 OXl)lains a method forderivin{, possible English structures.
Soelion 4 explain'4structural disanibi,gnaliOti using tlislanco calculations inIho o?anilflo-b,'lsed framework.
Section 5 exphlins anexample of Japanese sent0nee analysis using ourconsliluont boundary parsing method> and Section 6705reports on the experimental resulLs.2 PatternA pattern represents meaningful units for linguisticstructure and transfer in TDMT, and is defined as asequence that consists of variables and synrbolsrepresenting constituent boundaries.
A variablecorresponds to some linguistic constituent, and aconstituent boundary does not allow any two variablesto be adjacent.
A constituent boundary is expressed byeither a functional word or a part-of-speech bigrammarker lThe explanations in this anti the subsequent twosections, use English sentence parsing.2.1 Part -of -speechTable 1 shows tile English parts-of-speech, currentlyused in our English-to-Japanese TDMT system.
Thispart-of-speech system does not necessarily agree withthat of conventional grammar.Table 1 English parts-of-speech~of -speech  abbreviation exampleadjective adj largeadverb adv exactlyinterjection i nterj ohcommon noun noun busnumeral num elevenproper noun propn Kyotopronotm pron Iwh-word wh whatverb verb gobe-verb be isauxiliary verb aux crmpreposition prep caconjunction co nj btadeterminer det thesuffix suffix a.m.In this part-of-st)eech system, a be-verb, auxiliaryverb, preposition, conjtmction, deterntiner, and suffix,are classified into a functional word.2.2 Constituent I)()ulldary marke," exl)ressedby a functional wordOne problem with pattern descriptions using surface1 In this paper, variables, actual words, and part-of-speech abbreviations are expressed in calfital etters,italics, and gothic, respectively.words is the necessity for a large number Of patterns.
Tosnppress the nnnecessary patterns, the surface words inpatterns are in principle restricted to functional words,which occur frequently, and which modify or relatecontent words 2.Fnr instance, the expression, "go to the station" isdivided into two constituents "go" and "the station",and the l)reposition, "to" can be identified as aconstituent boundary.
Therefore, in parsing "go to thestation", we use tile l)attem, "X to Y ", which has twovariables X and Y, and a constituent boundary, "to.
"2.3 Constituent I)oundary marker  expressedby a pa,'t-nf-sl)eech ig,'anlThe expression "1 go" can be divided into twoconstituents 'T' and "go."
But it has no surface wordthat divides tile expression into two constituents.
In thiscase, a part-of-speech bigr,'un is used as a constituentboundary.Suppose th,qt a constituent X is immediately followedby a constituent Y.
We express a boundary-markerbetween X and Y by A-B, where A is a part-of-speechabbreviation of X's last word, and B is a 1)art-of-speechabbreviation of Y's first word.
For instance, 'T' and"go" are a pronoun and a verb, respectively, so themarker "pron-verb" is inserted as abot, ndary marker into"1 go".
Namely, "I pron-verb go", i.e.
with theboundary marker inserted into the original input,matches tile pattern "X pron-verb Y.
"2.4 Linguist ic levelPatterns are classified into (lffferent linguistic levelsto limit the explosion of structural ambiguity duringparsing.
Table 2 shows typical linguistic levels inF.nglish patterns.Table 2 Typical levels in English patternslevel exan_!p_lebeginning phrase excuse me but Xconlpotlnd sentence X when Vsimple sentence I would like to Xverl) phrase X at Ynoun phrase XofY ,  XatYc()mpound word X o'clock2 Exceptions are canned expressions such as '7 wouldlike to" and "in front of', or frdquent content wordssuch as "what.
"106In Table 2, beginning phrase is the highest level, andcompound word is the lowest.
A variable on a givenlevel is instantiated by a string described on that samelevel or on a lower level.
For instance, in the nounphrase "X of Y ", the variables, X and Y cannot beinstantiated by a simple sentence.3 Der ivat ion  of  Possible StructuresThe algorithnl for constituertt l)oundary parsing is asfollows;(A) Assignment of morphological inRn'nmtion to eachwoM of an input string(B) Insertion of constituent boundary nmrkcrs(C) Derivation of possible structures by top-downpattern matching(D) Structural disambiguation by distance calculationNote: we will explain (A), (B) and (C) in this section,and (D) in the next section, usirlg die following Englishsentence;(1) "The bus leaves Kyoto at eleven a.m,"3.1 Assignment of nlorphohlgicalint'ormathtnFirst, each word of the input string is assignedmorphological information, such as its part-ol'-sl)eechand conjugation fc.rm.
Through tiffs assignnient, we canget the lollowing part-of-speech sequence for (1).
(2) dot, noun, verb, propn, prop, num, suffixhi addition, each word is also assigned a thesauruscode for distance calcnhltions ,'lnd ,'ill index for retrievingl)atterns.
For instance, "bits" has a thesaurus codecorresponding to tile semantic attribute 'car.'
Moreover,from the word "(it", we can obtain the index to thepattern "X (at Y", whicll is found for both verb phraseand nOl.ln phrase..3.2 Marker  hiserl ic,  nA constituent boundary marker is inserted in an inputstring for pattern-matching.
The marker is extracted \[reinthe part-of-speech sequence of an input sentence.
Sincesuch bigrams as dot -noun belong to the sameconstituent, marker insertion by a part-of-sl)eech bigramis restricted according to the items below.
(a) Neither A nor B is a part-of-speech relating twoconstituents, uch as a preposition(b) A is not a l)art-of-speech nlodifying a latterconstituent, such :.is a dotorinh/or.
(c) B is not a l)art-of-sI)eech modifying a previousconstituent, such as a suffix.We mainttlin a list of p:lrt-of-speech bigrams that areeligible as marke,'s because they satisfy the aboveconditions.
Of the bigrams in (2), "det-noun", "propn-prep", "prop-nora", and "nun>suffix", vioklte the aboveconditions, and are of course excluded.
Thus, only"noun-verb" and "verb-propn" are inserted into sentence(1), as shown in (3).
(3) "The bus noun-verb leaves verb-propn Kyotoat eleven a.tn.
"3.3 al) l ) l iealhm of Ilaltel'nsOur pattern-nlatchhlg nlethod parses an inpiltsentence in a top-down fashion.
The highest levelpatterns of the input sentence :.ire applied first; thenlmtterns at lower levels are applied.
The applicationprocedure is as follows.
(I) Get indices to patterns from each woM of thesentence.
With these indices, patterns are retrievedand chocked to determine if each of them can matchtile sentence.
Then exectlte (II).
( l l)Try to apply the highest-level patterns first.
Ifthere is a pattern tlmt can be applied, execute (1II)with respect o the variable bindings.
Otherwise,exectite (IV).
( I l l )Try to apply surface words (content wordsregistered in a dictionary).
If lhe al)lflicalionsucceeds, the application fo, that portion isfinished successfully.
()thcrwise, execute (I1).
(IV) If the pattern to be applied is at the lowest level,the api)lication fails.
Otherwise, lower tile level ofthe patterns and execute (II).If pattern al~plication finishes successfully for allportions o\[" an input sentence, one or more sourcestrttctures are obtained: since there is a possibility thatmore ttmn one pattern can be apl)lied to an expression istep (II), structural ambiguity may occur.
We seek allpossible structures by breadth-first application, andselect the most plausible structure by the total distancevalue (See Section 4.4).107In step (I), indices to possible patterns :-ire obtainedfrom several words and bigrams in the marker-insertedsentence (3), as shown in Table 3.Table 3 ReUieved patterns from (3)wordthenoun-verbverb-propnata .
?l'l.retrieved pattern (lilmuistic level)_tt, e X (compound word)X noun-verb Y (simple sentence)X verb-propn Y (verb pltrasc)X at Y (verb phr:~se, noun phrase)X a.m. (corot?rand word)After step (I) is finished, steps (II)-(IV) are repeatedrecursively.
First, the highest level pattern of the inputsentence is applied.
This is "X noun-verb Y ", which isdefined at the simple sentence level.
Next, an attempt ismade to apply patterns to the variable bindings "thebus" and "leaves verb-propn Kyoto at eleven a.m.",which are bound to variables X and Y, respectively.
To"the bus", at compound word level p'tttern "the X " isapplied first, and the surface word "bus" is applied toproso "tile bus."
Likewise, patterns and suri'aee wordsare appliecl Io tile remaining part, and tile al~plic:-nion isfinished successfully.The pattern "X at Y " is found for both verb phraseand noun phrase.
"leaves verb-propn Kyoto at elevena .m."
thus has two possible structures, by theapplication of "X at Y."
"X verb-propn Y " at the verbphrase level and "X a.m." at compotmd word level, arealso applied.
Fig.
1 is tile tree representation derivedfrom the structure for sentence (1) where "X at Y " is aveal) phrase, while Fig.
2 is a tree representation derivedfrom the slrnctllre in which "X at Y " is a noun phrase.A boldfilce denotes the head part in each pattent.
Thisinfer,nation is t, l i l izcd for extracting an input fordistance calculations (See section 4.3).X noun-verb Y/ kthe X X at YI / \bus X verb-propn Y X a.m.I I Iloaves Kyoto elevenFig.
1 Structure in wltich "X at Y " is a verb phraseX noun-verb Y/ \the X X verb-propn YI Ibus loaves\X atYI \Kyoto X a.m.IelevenFig.
2 Struclure in which "X at Y " is a noun phrasetile thes:mrus, and varies from 0 to 1.
Tim value 0indicates that two semantic attributes belong to exactlythe same category, and 1 indicates that they :-/retmrclated.An expression consists of words.
The distancebetween expressions i the sum of the (listance betweenwords multiplied by each weight.The distance is calculated quickly bectutse of thesimple mechanism employed.
(Sumita, 1992) and(Furuse, 1992, 1994) give a clctailcd account of tiledistance calculation mechanism we are aclopting.4 Distance CalculatitmIn this ,ruction, a nlethod for structuraldisaml)iguation utilizing dist,'mce calculation, isdescribed.4.1 DistanceThe distance between two words is retluced to thedistance between their respective sem;mtic attributes in athesaurus.
Words have associated thesaurus codes, whichcorrespond to partietflar semantic attributes.
The distancebetween the semantic attributes i  determined accordingto the relationship of their positions in the hierarchy of4.2 Best-match by distance calcul:ltinnThe advantages of an example-based framework aremainly due to the distance calctdation, which achievesthe bcst-malch operation between tile input and providedexamples.In TDMT, translation is performed by applyingstored empirical Iransl'er knowledge.
In TDMT transferknowledge, each source pattern has example words ofvariables and possible target patterns.
The most?
qppropriate target pattern is selected according to thecalculated istance between, the input words and theexample words.
The English pattern "X at Y " at theverb phrase level, corresponds to several possible108Japanese expressions, as shown in the folhlwingEnglish-to-Japanese transfer knowledge:XatY  => Y' de X' ((present, conference)..),Y' ni X' ((stay, hotel)..),Y' we X' ((look, it)..)The first possible target pattern is " Y' de X' ", withexample set ((present, cotg'erenee)..).
We will see thatthis target pattern is likely to be selected to the extentthat the input variable bindings are semanticqlly similarto the example elements "present" and "coati're|Ice.
"Within this pattern, X' is the target word correslx)ndingto X, tile result of transfer.
"preset, l" and "con/~reaee"are sample bindings for " X at Y ", where X ="present", and Y = "conference".
The al)ove transferknowledge is compiled from such translation examplesas the source-target pair of " presem a paper at theconference" and "kaigi de ronbun wo happ),ou-st~ru",where "kaigi" means "conference" and "happyou-sltru"means "present".Tilt semantic distance from the input is calculated forall examples.
Then lhe example with the least distancefrom the input is chosen, and the target expresskm ofthat example is extracted.
If the input is closest to(stay, hotel), "Y' ni X' " is chosen as the targetexpress ion.The enrichment of examples increases tile aCc,lracy Ofdetermining the target expression and structure becauseconditions become more dclailed.4 .3  lnl)ut of' distance calculationAn input for distance ealcuh.ltion consists of headwords in variable parts.
In "X at Y " for the structure inFig.
l, X and Y are substitumd \[or the compoundexpressions, "leaves verb-propn Kyoto" a1~d "elevena.m.
", respectively.
In such eases, it is necessary toextract head words as the input for the disEmcecalculation about "X at Y ".In order to get head words, tile head part is (lcsignawdin each pattern (boldface in Figs.
1 and 2).
For inslance,the t)attern "X vorb-propn Y I I e(li)t;lillg the informationthat X is a head part.
So the head of "leaves verb-propnKyoto" is "leaves", and tile head or "x a.m." is"a.m.".
Thus, in "X at Y " for Ihe strncture in Fig.
1,the ini)ut of the distance calculation is (leaves, a.m.).Table 4 shows tile result of distance cqlculation in "Xat Y " in Fig.
1.
The most plausible target structure"Y' ni X' " and its distance value 0.17 are obtained bythe dislance calculation.Head words are passed upward from lower palterns tohigher 1)atterns.
Since the head of the verb phrasepattern, "X at Y " is assigned te X, the head of "leavesverb-propn Kyoto at eleven a.m." is "leaves", whichis tile head of "leaves wrb-propn Kyoto".
The head of"the bus" is "bus" fi'om the head information that theTable 4 Result of distance calculation in"X a/Y " in lqg.
1input:(leave, a.m.)AL~J?ELeXxl)ression closest example and |IS value :~Y' de X' (arrive, a.m.) O.
17Y' ni X' (serve, reception) 0.67Y' we X' (look, it) 1.00head of "the X " is X.
Thus, rite input of tile distancecalculation of "X noun-verb Y " is (bits, leave).4.4 SI , 'uetural  d is :mlbignat ionDistance calculqtion selects not only the mostl)lausible target expression but also the most plausiblesource structure.
When .strtlcttlral aml)iguity occttrs, themost apllrOl)riate structure is selected by comt)uting tl~ototals for all possible combinations of partizfl distancevalues.
The structure with the least total distance isjudged most consistent wilh empirical knowledge, and ischosen as Ihe most 1)lausil)le structure (Furuse 1992,1994; Sumita 1993).Table 5 shows the result of each partial distancetalc|Ha|ion for tile structure in Fig.
1. l:mm Table 5, weV.Ct Ihe total distance value 1.17 for the structure inl:it;.
1.Table 5 Result of each partial distance calculationfor tile slructure in I,'ig.
1souiee chosen l~lr..~c:\[ distance val,lgthe X X' 0.33X rlotJrl-vorb Y X' wa Y' 0.67X verb-propn Y Y' we X' 0.00X .t Y Y" ni X' 0.17X a.m. gozeJ~ X'j i  0.00The difference in total distance value I)etween twol)OSsible structures for sentence (1) is due only to thedistance value of "X at Y ", for the structure in Figs.
1and 2.
For the strucltne in Fig.
2, the distance valtl0 of"X at Y " at tile neun phrase level is given as 0.83, asshown in Table 6, and is given a total distance f 1.83.Thus, the structure in Fig.
1 is selected as the3 The:.
;e vii\]ties were col//pu,ed based on Ihe presenttransfer knowledge of the T1)MT system.appropriate restflt because it has the least total distance knowledge for the pattern "X pron-noun Y ";value.Table 6 Result of distance calcul,ltion in"X at Y " in Fig.
2input:(Kyoto, a.m.)target expression ?losest exampl0 and its valueY' no X' (room, hotel) 0.83Y' deno X' (language, conference) 1.00In macbine translation, it ix important todisambiguate be possible structures, l)ecause a differencein structure may bring about a translation difference.
Forinstance, the structures in Figs.1 and 2 give differentJapanese translations (4) and (5), respectively.
(4) isselected because it is generated from the best structurewith the least total distance value.
(4) basu wa gozen 11 ji ni Kyoto we de masu 4(5) basu wa gozen \] 1 ji ~_ Kyoto we de masu5 Constituent Boundary Parsing inJapaneseSince a postposition is quite often used as a case-particle in Japanese, tim botmdary markers expressed bya part-of-speech bigram may not be used less frequentlythan in English.
However, in spoken Japanese,postpositions are frequently omitted.
The Jqpanesesentence "Kochira wa jimukyoku" where kochirameans this and j imukyoku  means "office", istranslated into the English sentence "77fis is the office"by applying transfer knowledge such as thefollowing5:XwaY => X'be Y'But postpositions are often omitted in natural six)kenJapanese, e.g.
in the sentence "Kochira jimukyoku.
"The sentence can thus be divided into two noun phrases,"kochira" and "jimukyoku."
kochira" is a pronotm,and "jimukyoku" is a noun.
So, using the bigrammethod of marking boundaries, we get "Kochira pron-noun jimukyoku", where the bigram "pron-noun" wasinserted.
The English sentence "77fis is the oJfice" canthen be produced by applying the following transfer4"basu", "de", and "masu" mean "bus", "leave", anda polite sentence-final form, respectively.5 For simplicity, examples and other possible targetexpressions are omined.X pron-noun Y => X' be Y'In Japanese adnominal expressions, too, constituei~tbonndary markers ,'Ire inserted between the modifier andthe modified.6 ResultsWe have evaluated tim efficiency of our parsingmethod by utilizing a Japanese-lo-English (Jg) andEnglish-to-Japanese (EJ) TDMT prototype system(Furuse 1994; Sobashima 1994), which ix ,'unning on aSymbolics XL120(I, a LISP machine with IOMIPSperformance.
The system's domain is inquiriesconcerning international conference registrations.
Theefficency is evaluated with 154 Japanese sentences and138 corresl)onding English sentences, which areextracted from 10 dialogues in the domain.
The systelnhas al)out 500 source p,'llterns for JE translation andabout 35(1 source patterns for EJ transhttion.The test sentences mentioned above have already l)eentr:tined to investigate the efficiency of the method, andcan be p-lrse(l correctly by the system.
Table 7 outlinesthe 154 Japanese sentences and 138 correspondingEnglish sentences.Table 7 Outline of test senlences_ Japanese E_j1Aj_I ishwords per inpnt sentence 9.8 8.7average numl)er of ix)ssible structures 1.5 4.8An l-nglish sentence tends to have more strucluralambiguities than a Japanese sentence, bec,'tnse of PF'-altachment, the phenomenon that an English prepositionf)rodtlCCS \[)()\[h a noun verb p\]lrasc \[Ilia a \[iolln phasc.
Incontrast, tile Jai)aneso l)ostposition does not generallyproduce different-level constituents.Table 8 shows how ,nuch time it takes to reach thebest structure and translation output in our JE and EJTDMT system.
The processing time for distancecalculation includes trnctnral disaml)iguation i  additionto ktrget pattern selection.Tiffs demonstrates that the ot~r parsing method canget the best structure and translation output quicklywit\]fin the examl)lo-/xlsed framework.110Table 8 Processing time for the TI)MT system6 JF.
E,Iderivation of possible structures 0.25 (scc) 0.l 7dislance calculation 1.32 0.14whole tr,'lnsl;ition 2.17 1.077 Conc lu{ lh lg  Ren l l i rksA constituent boundary parsing method for cxaniplo-based in;ichinB translation has been propose{I, l,inguisliopatterns consisthlg of variables and constituentboundaries, are applied to an input string in a top-downfashion, and the possible structures can bc{lisambigutated using distance calculation by theexaml}le-based framework.
This nlothod is cll'icicut, anduseful for parsing bolh Japanese and Knglish sentences.TIle "\['DMT system, which bidirectionally translatesbetween Jal/anese and English within the eXaml)le-b:~sedframework, utilizes this parsing method and achievesefficient and robust spokel) larlguage translation.By introducing linguistic information to morepatterns, there is a possibility that this method can alsobe utilized for ruled}ased MT, deep soinantic analysis,and so on.
We will improve our parser by increasing thenumber of lraining sentences, and test its accuracy onolvn dala.AcknowledgementsThe authors wotlld like to th-lnk the menlbors of ATP,Interpreting Telecomnlllilicatioiis P, esoarch Laboratoriesfor their colnlrlOnls oi1 variotls p,'irts of lhi~, research.Special thanks are due 1o Kohei \[labara and g:lsuhiroYamazaki, for their snl)l)ort of this research.Bib l iographyFuruse> O., arid lida, H. (1992).
Cool)er:ltion betweonTransfer aild Analysis in Example-Based Framework.Prec.
of COTING-92, pp.645-65 I.Fnrnse, O., Sumita, E., and Ii(la, I1.
(1994).
Transfer-Driven Machine Translation Utilizing IimpiricalKnowledge.
Transactions of hiformation ProcessingSociety of Jal)an, Vol.35, No.3, 17t}.414-425 (inJapanese).Grishman, R., and Kosaka, M. (1992).
Combinhlg6 The distance calculation time in F.J transhltion is short,since the system has llOt yet learned crlough trai/s\]:lliOllexamples cmlcerning EJ translation.Rationalist and liml)iricist Aplnoachos to Machine"l'ransNilioin.
Prec.
of TMI-92, pp.263-274.Jones, D. (1992).
Non-hybrid l-xample-baso(l MachineTranslation Architectures.
Prec.
of TMI-92, i)p.163-171.McI.ean, i. J.
(1992).
F.x,'uni}le-Based MachineTranslation using Counectionist Matching.
Prec.
ofTMI-92, pI).35-43.M:u?,ernlan, D. M., and Marcus, M. P. (1990).
Parsinga Naltlr;ll \],allgtiage Using Mtlttial lnfornialionSl:ltistic~.
l'roc, of AAAI 90, I}p.984-989.Maruyalna, 11.> and Watanal)e, I1.
(1992).
Tree CoverSearch Algorithin for l';x,'lmple-llased "Franslaliom Proc.of TMI-92, Pl).
173- 184.M:.uuyan/a, 11.
(1993).
Pattern-Based Translation:Conlcxt-Free Transducer and Its Al}t)lication to PracticalNI.P.
Prec.
of Natural l,anguago Processing Pacific P, imSylnpO.
'-;itlln '93, i)P.232-237.Nqgao, M. (1984).
A franlework of a mechanicalIranslalion between Japanese and l-nglish by analogyprinciple, in Artificial and lhunan Intelligence, ods.Elithorn, A. and Banerji> P,., North-Ilolland , pp.173-180.Nirenburg> S., I)omashnov, C., and Grannes, D.J.(1993).
Two Al}proaches to Matching in l-xample-Base{lMachine Translation.
Prec.
of TIVlI-93, pp.47-57.Sale S. (1991).
Examl)le-P, asod Machine Translali{)n.l)oclorial Thesis, Kyoto University.Sobashima, Y., Furuse, O., Akamine, S., Kawai, J.,and Iida> I1.
(1994), A l.lidirectional Trnasfer-DrivenMachine "l~ransl:ltion Syslein for Spoken Dialogues.Prec.
of COI.IN(i-94.Sumita, E. and lida> 11.
(1992).
Examl)le-P, ase{l Transferof Japanese Adnoinin,:il Particles into f~2nglish.
IEICI~TITANS.
INV.
& SYST., Vol.li75-D, N(}.4, pi).585-59-'1.Stunita, F,., \]-'uruse, O.,and lid,q, t\[.
(1993).
Alll{xainple-llasod Disaulbiguation of Prepositional PhraseAitachn~ont.
Prec.
ofTMI-93, pi).80-91.Watanal)e, 11.
(1992).
Similarity-l)riven TransferSystoln.
Prec.
of COTING-92, pl}.77{1-776.111
