AN ARCHIT I~CTURI , ;  FO I l  A UNIVFRSAI ,  L I , :X ICONA Case Study on Shared Syntactic hfformatlml in Japanese, l lindi, Bengali, (;reel<, and EnglishNaoyuk i  Nomura ,  Doug las  A. Jones, Robert  C. Bcrwicl<Massachuset ts  Irtstitute of Techno logyArtif icial  intel l igertce I ,aboratorynomura@ai .mi t .eduI n t roduct ion .
ltindiGiven the prominence of the lexicon in most current (3)!inguistic theories (I.FG, HPSG, GB), lhe inventory oflanguage particular information left in the lexiconteserves special  attention.
Construct ing largecomputerized lexicons remains a difficult problem,milding a large array of apparently arbitrary information.I'his papers shows that this arbitrariness can bcmn,;trained more than might have been previouslyhought.
In particular, arbitrariness of argument slructure, Bengalixord sense, and paraphrasability will be shown not only (4)o be constrained, hut also to be integrally rchttcd.
Ourradical) view is that wu'iation of lexical behavior acrossanguages is exactly like lexical variation withinanguages, specifically, the difference lies in the presence~r absence of certain morphemes.
For cxatnple, the facthat Japanese has richer possibilities it\] certain verbalmtterns is derived solely from its morphological  (;reeknventory.
~ Put another way, language parameters (5);imply are the presence or absence of lexical material inhe morphological  componet\]t. Observed hmguagc~ariation patterns reflect morphological systematicity.I'he generative machinery for producing argutnent;tructure positions is fixed across languages.iAnguist ie Mot ivat ion .A striking example underscoring universality oft rgument structure is the famil iar  Spray/Load2 tlternation, shown in example (1).
Despite the manym'l'acc differences in these data across htnguages, they,hare several essential properties.1 ) a. John loaded tile hay on the wagon.b.
John loaded tile wagon with the hay.
'(l\[)atlese2) a.taroo-wa teepu-o boo-ni mait,{i.Taro-NOM tape-ACC stick-DAT wrap-PRF'Tam wrapped the tape around the stick.
'ttlroo-wa boo-o teepu-de Illaita.Tan>NOM stick-ACC tape-WITIl wrap-PRl;'Tam wrapped the stick with tim tape.
'See Miyagawa, Uukui, and Tenny (1985) for at discussion of this'ffect.
Also see Mat'titt ( 1975, pp 441-.455), tor 56 such morphemes+;co below for additiotml discussion o1' these alternations and for analternative analysis.See, e.g., Levin (1993) and sources cited thcre, for example,ackendoff (1990) and Emends (1991 ).a.
shyam lathi--ko kagaz-sc lape..taShyam stick-ACC paper-with wral).PRl ?
'Shyam wrapped the stick with paper.'b.
shyam lathi-par kagaz lape-taShyam stick--on paper wrap.Pl,H:'Shyam wrapl)ed paper around tile stick'a.
jodu lathi-ta kaagajh-dic muriecheJodu stick-l)F3" paper-with wrap.PST'Jodu wrapped the stick wilh the paper.'13.
jodu lalhi Ic kaagaj IlluriecheJodu stick-on paper wrap.PST'Jodu wrapped the paper around the stick'a.
o 7tc~vwE ~I~op'tm~r oczvo oxo 1~,{,7ovto janis fortwse sane sto bagoniJanis I)I';T load.PST hay on.the wagon'Janis loaded the hay on the wagon'b.
o Tt(xvwlg ~()p'ccocre 'to\[laTovt bte oavoo jatfis fortwse to bagoni lllC SallOJanis I)ET load.P,qT the wagon wilh hay'Janis loaded tile wagon with hay'All of these hmguages have exactly the same alternationtype.
Why?
Let us locus orl tilt role of  f igure andground 3 in lhese examples.
By "alternation", we meanthat in each language they}'~,,ure, asexpressed as a directobject in the (a) cases, alternates wilh the fi'gure asexpressed in an equivalent PP in the (b) cases, l)espitethe differences in word order and case marking, all sharethe properly that the direct object is subject o a so-calledl lolistic l~,ffect: 4 Crucially, tim (a) sentences differ fromthe (b) sentences in exactly the same way in each ofthese languages.
In (lb), where John loads the wagonwith hay, the wagon is understood to have a wl_jole loadof hay, likewise if John smears the wall with paint, the:~By ' g ro t l l /d ' ,  we  mean the surface background involved in tileaction represented by the verb.
By 'figure', we mean the objectthat is brought into contact with tile ground, l:or example, in (1),the hay is the figure which is brought into contact with the wagon,in tills case, the ground.
See Tahny (1978) and Emends (1991) fordiscussion of figure and ground in this connection..t Note that his property is not overtly grammatically marked, as,say, the case of the direct (~bject is.
See l,evin (1993) and thereferences there for additional discussion of the Holistic l",ffect.243wall is understood to have more paint than if John merelysmears paint on the w~dl.
Thus we may assume throughoutthat the word sense of  the verbs as used in the (a) and(b) cases are essentially identical, s The goal of theremainder of  this paper is to analyze and implement thisinsight in a particular representation given by bothlinguistic and computational theory, and apply it to MT.Basic Building Blocks: The Syntax of  Word  FormationWe propose to replace idiosyncratic language p,'u'ticularinformation with a new generative component that linksuniversal abstract lexical structures with the surfacethat derives words from a small set of primitives) Thesestructures are assumed to be identical across languages.VpJohn put ppthe hook on the shelfJohn put the book on the shelf.forms of words for each language.
This generative VPmachinery is based on work by Hale and Keyser (1993) / / / ' ~and Pustejovsky (1991a).
The basic architecture is shown / :< / "in Figure 1.
John % ; 'P, ~ ~ - - ~ - - -  "'....Lexicon l \[~)nl lgormation: Generative Mechani.,,m \] \]~,--\[J Rules ?fC?mp?sit i?n~tl 'asie l~;'i'aingl/J ,,eboo~II II"'?cks: tl':"t?r' JJjFig.
1. i S l ~  Syntax of Word  Fornmt ionCrucially, only a restricted number of  argumentstructures can be generated.
The basic idea is that lexicalX-bar structures are composed from the lexical categoriesN, A, V, and P (see fig.
2), into trees whose Spec(ifier)and Comp(lement) positions after movement yield therange of possible ,argument structures.
The lexical entriesare subject o a series of filters, as follows.Basic Building Blocks Rules of Composit ionLexical Categories * X-bar ProjectionN (Noun) = entity ?
Move-AlphaA (Adjective) = state (including HeadV (Verb) = event Movement)P (Preposition) = relationFilters (in lime and Keyser (1993))HMC: Head Movement Constraint (Baker, 1988)ECP: Empty Category Principle (Chomsky, 1981)FI: Full Interpretation (Chomsky, 1986)UP: Unambiguous Projection (Kayne, 1984)PL: Predication Locality (Williams, 1980)To give a concrete xample of the system, we derivethe thematic properties of  the denominal verb shelvefrom compositional machinery operative in the lexiconby composing the noun form shelf with an emptypreposition and an empty verb to yield the form shelve.The structures are as shown in Fig.
2.
In short, argumentstructure is produced by syntax operative in the lexicons If an interlingua-based system does not constrain the number ofword senses, it faces some serious computational problems as isshown in section 3.Fig.
3 shows the detailed schema for producinglexical entries for verbs.
We only note briefly here afew important properties of  the system in Fig.
3.
Firstof all, the main verb V is formed by Head Movementof  X, and Y if it exists, to V. The categorial wdue of Xand Y are selected from the set {N,A,V,P}.
For example,the denominal verb shelve is built as shown above ivOne can view the work by Dor.
(1993) and, previously, ethelattempts at lexical decomposition ranging hack through Scbank a~essentially the same in spirit, bt, t without the detailed constrai)mprovided by Figure 2.
Wc regard similar proposals regardin~"promotion" and "demotion" of arguments as essentially a reflectiorof Move-:llpha.
The novelty of our proposal is that it is not ad hoethat is, the same constraints independently justified in syntax allappear in lexic:d constructioll.
The need for at non-arbitrary, i.e., arexplanatory, account of lexical argument structure should b(apparent.
If lexical entries varied arbitrarily, we would Iogicall~expect at least he following space of lexical possibilities, requMn 1upwards of a quarter-million diacritics.
Let m be the number osemantic/thematic roles, such as Agent, Patient, Theme, RangeDuration, and so on, and let n be tbe number of grammatical functionsThen, when n=4 and m=50 (a typical number for traditional NLIsystems) we have 251,176 differenttypes of lexical entries (Zi=0 t(n m/li!(m-i)!
).
While some theories might propose this mandistinctions, it seems clear that Ibis imposes a very considerabllearning and engineering burden.
Many researchers, includinMakino (1991) and others, have noticed tim drawbacks of encodinthematic rules, but in the absence ofa clear alternative, still requirthem for representing lexical intormation.
Furthermore, it is commoknowledge that verbs pattern into certain equiwdence classes withilanguages (e.g., Levin, 1993), but arbitrary verb classes woulimply arbitrary variatkm across languages.244Figure 2, by selecting P as X and N as Y.
The deadjectivalverb redden is built by selecting A as X and selectingnothing as Y.
The ditransitive verb give selects V for:)oth X and Y, following Larson (1988).
NP1, if it:xists, is the agent of the action, and NP2, if it exists, is:he affected object of the verb, tollowing Hale and Keyser~1993).
(vp)(NPI) ((~,'~) XPQ~~X,Y  E { N,A,V,P,~ }(NP2)((.S.))Fig.
3.
Schema for producing verb lexical entries.From the point of view of lexical representation a dMT, the key constraint is that the entry for shelve has.
:lements that correspond irectly to the verb put and the:)reposition on in its representation.
These elements then:~ecome awfilable for interpretation and for lranslation.We show below that this is also part of the difference:)etween English, Japanese, Hindi, mid Greek verbs.Analysis and Applications for the Universal LexiconComputational Motivation.There have been some controversies about the meritsmd demerits of transfer-based MT and interlingua-basedMT.
Typical transfer-based MTs prepare completelyJifferent sets of word senses for component languages~o that mapping among the word senses is completelyarbitrary, i.e., the complexity may be calculated as~ipartitc graph matching.
We will assume an interlingua-9ased MT, which supposedly makes all the componentangt, ages share common word senses or so-called:oncepts and thus is constrained regarding word senses.\[towever, interlingua-based MT still has substantial)roblems in making up word senses.
The number of0vorcl senses, their well-definedness, and the p,oblemabout linking surface words depend on excellent.exicographers.
To give just one example here, the:filingual dictionary Sanseedoo (1990) lists all the{bllowing English translations tbr a Japanese verb kazaruWecorate)"h~,~?7~ :kazaru: ornament; decorate; adorn; dress;embellish; exhibit; display; put articles on show;affect; be affected; grace a ;use fair words; writean inflated style; mince; not being plain or flat21ustering these into well-defined word senses is not an.-asy task; thus, it is hard to answer the word sense.luestion.
Suppose we have a symbol to represent the:ore meaning of kazaru, which is shared by the Englishcounterpart decorate.
Since kazaru has the syntacticnature of a Spray/Load type alternation, the lexicon of atypical interlingua-based MT essentially provides theinformation described below.word sense :KAZARU-DECORATEsyntactic information:Verb Alternation Type 1:{ \[AGENT\]NOM(/Y:),\[TI IEME\]ACC(~),\ [MATERIAL\]WlTH(~) }Verb Alternation Type 2:{ \[AGENT\]NOM(/0::), ITHEME\]ACC(~),\[ GOAL\]DAT/ON/OVEI~.
(}E.)}AGF, NT, THEME, GOAL and MATERIAL arethematic roles that are the key elements in the interlingua.NOM, ACC, WITII and DAT/ON/OVER are case-marking functions mapped to the surface case markers '/Y;', '~r',  '-Q:' and '~C'.
Assuming a self-containedthematic role system and case-marking system, thesemarkings are to be ewtluated on the correspondingexample sentences and be decided independent of eachother.
I Iowever, the two argument structures in the abovediagram are actually incolnpatible with each other becausethe same thematic role THEME is assigned to differentreferents: grotmd, the patient o be decorated, andfigure,the decoration to be attached to the patient.
In effect,the MT system makes serious errors clue to its confusionof thematic roles derived from tim lexicon.Example Input:(6)Output:Taro-ga hana-o kazatta.Taro-NOM flower-ACC decorate-PRFTaro decorated the flower.In most contexts, the default reading of the inpntsentence above should be interpreted as 'Taro decoratedsomething with flowers.'
This error was caused by thesemantic lash in the lexicon.
In order to avoid sucherrors, lexicographers could overwrite some thematicroles disregarding semantic riteria, but thus would spoilthe interlingual \[oundalion.
The remaining possiblesohltion t%r this problem is to artificial divided the wordsense (WS) into two syinbols: WSwith and WSon, twocompletely artifical word senses.Those two artil'icial word senses are essentially verysimilar to each other, if not identical, and will posedifficulties for lexicographers because they will have toput arbitrary links among word senses for similar wordsin two languages or within the same language.
The twoword senses put the two different argument structures incomplete isolation once the analysis is completed andtim interlingua is fixed; the only thing the generationmodule of MT can do is accept the given word sense(WSwith or WSon)and generate only one argnment structure.This rigidity has a potential to generate sentences that245are unacceptably unnatural.The result for MT and lexicon construction is that thecomputational machinery will stay fixed across languagesand thus uniformly constrain the complexity of argumentstructures eliminating most of the related arbitrariness.It is well known that word-for-word translations arenot the paradigmatic case.
The architecture we proposeentails a significant improvement in isomorphic mappingsbetween languages.
However, the isomorphism is not atthe level of words, but rather, at the level of morphologicalelements that enter into the lexical syntactic formationof  words.
Thus it is no accident hat 'put the book onthe shelf' is a near paraphrase of  'shelve the book',  andit is no accident that 'put the book on the shelf' is acloser isomorphic map for the Japanese translations of' John shelved the book'  shown in (1).
The entailment isthat 'shelve the book' has the same morphological materialas 'put the book on the shelf' ,  but the former has anempty preposition and an empty verb that incorporates anoun.In particular, we show how to replace thematic roleswith the lexical syntax proposed in Hale and Keyser(1993) and augmented by work in Pustejovsky (1991 a)\]This technique yields several potential benefits: (i)robustness of  the lexicon, (ii) greater flexibility inselecting more natural renditions of  target languagestructures in translation, as in (7) below.
Let us considereach of these in turn with specific examples.
(7) a.John-wa hon-o tana-no ue-ni oi-ta.John-TOP book-ACe shelf-GEN upper place-AT put-PRI ~John put the book on the shelf.b.John-wa hon-o tana-ni simatta.
(more accurate)John-TOP book-ACC shelf-DAT pt, t.away-PRFJohn put away / stored the book on the shell'.if  paraphrasability and translation must conform tothe lexical syntactic structures in Figures 2 through 4,we have a natural method for producing a constrainedspace of possible translations, namely, the only structuresthat are allowed are those produced by thc mechanismoutlined in Fig.
4.
To highlight the relationship betweenparaphrasabi l i ty  and transhttabil ity, consider thealternation behavior of  several verbs within English,shown in (2).
Notice in particular that different verbsparticipate in one or both halves of  the alternations, orin neither half.
As we will see, the same facts holdacross distinct languages.Nonalternat ion:Not all verbs that participate in one half of theSpray/Load alternation participate in the other half, as(8) and (9) and (10) from English, Japanese, and Hindiillustrate.
Interestingly, in these cases verbs acrossVAlong with Emonds (1992), we propose shifting a significantportion of the machinery out of the semantics and into syntax, inthe |brm of syntactically enriched lexical entries.languages also pattern alike in terms of nonalternation ~.This gives additional support for our representationproposal.English(g) a. John covered the baby with the blanket.b.
*John covered the blanket {over,onto,... } the baby.Japanese(9) a..k;~l~;)l'~/~,13i~g-gli~F3<,?~otaroo-wa akanboo-o moofu-de oot-taTaroo-TOP baby-ACC bhmket-WITtt cover-PRF'Taro covered the baby with the bhmket.
'taroo-wa mool'u-o akanboo-ni oot-taTaro-TOP hhmket-ACC baby-I)AT cover-Pl~,l:'Taro covered the blanket over the baby.
'Hindi( I 0) a. jOn-ne kaprc-se bacce-ko dlmkaJolm-ERG cloth-WlTI 1 child-ACC cover'John covered the baby with a cloth'b.
* jOn-ne kapre-ko hacce-ke-upar dhakaJolm-ERG cloth-ACC baby-ON.TOP.OF coverThus there are fot.tr logical possibilities for alternationand nonalternation, as illustrated in Fig.
4Type (a)SubjectType(b)SubjectttolisticV NP I \[with NP2\]Ground FigurellolisticVFigureNI' 2 \[{onto/into/... NPtlGroundVcrb Class i.
(a) John loaded Ihe wagon with hay.
(b) Jolm lo.
'~ded the hay ohm Ihe wagon.Verb Class ii.
(a) * John poured the glass with water.
(b) John poured lhe water into theglass.Verb Class iii.
(a) John covered the baby with the blanket.
(b) *John covered the blanket onto the baby.Verb Class iv.
*(a) *John gurgled lhe glass with water.
(b) * John gurgled the water into the glass.Fig.
4.
The Spray -Load  alternation.The nonalteruations arc critical clues to discoverinXSee Levin (1993) for an extensive survey of such phenomena.246he correct lexical representation for tim verbs and hencehe structures that translate a more direct mapping acrossanguages.
We propose that the key to the solution ishat in the non-alternating cases, prepositions arerworporated into the verb in lexical syntax just as shelven Fig.
3.
For exmnple, the lexical entries for pout, and'over contain prepositions as shown in (10).
We assumehat the lcxical representation for the prepositions encodespeeifications for figure and ground, represented as F~nd G in (10).
In essence, whatX on Y means is that Xafigure on the ground Y. ht fact, this is tim essence~f what prepositions "mean", at an abstract level.
Thushe prepositions are the primitives in our system, andoncepts uch as figure and ground are deriwttive.
Thisntaihnent is illustrated by the linking lines in Fig.
5.cover(X,Y)+with(G,F)Fig.
5 An Explanation For The Spray-LoadAlternationThe lexical entry for load does not contain a prepositionnd hence is free to alternate.
Thus the reason why aerb does not participate in part of an alternation ix that: incorporates lexical material which clashes withotential complements.
The reason that 'cover the blanketn the baby' is bad is that covet" already encodes theigure and ground relationship by incorporating with into:s representatoin--that is, he preposition with is frozen"lto the verb's representation.
Adding an overt PP withn creates aclash in figure and ground relations.
Addingcompatible PP to a verbal structure with an incorporated' introduces redundancy, but is the structure ix still well-:~rmed.alternation Mismatches Across Languages.So far, then, we have seen only that verbs acrossiffcrent languages pattern alike.
Surely the,e must be'ifferences or else MT efforts wonld have succeeded:rag ago .
Fig.
6 displays all the logically possible~lationship between verbs across two languages.Types A, F, and K verbs behave identically in alanguage pair.
For example, the introductory sentences(1)-(5) illustrated Type A correspondences, whereL,=English and L2c {Japanese,Hindi,Bengali,Greek}.
9We have found (B,C,G,E,I,H) - - the  unshaded cellsin the Figure 5--to be the richest source of cross-linguisticinformation, namely, the verbs that do not con'esponddirectly are the most informative regarding the nature ofword formation, given the model that we have adopted.Not accidentally, they are precisely the ones that arc notonly of particular interest for our framework, they arcpolentially very difficult for machine translation, simplybecause, for some of them, the,'e is no way to takeadvantage of the surfitce similarity of argument structures.Recall that wc assume that the word sense for theseverbs ix fixed across hmguages.
Consider, then, theType C alternation correspondence below, whereL,=English and 1,2< { Japanese,Hindi,Bengali } :'~(21carly, type P verbs should constitute most of the verbalw~cabnlary, since most verbs do not participate in the Spray/LoadAlternation, or in any given alternation, for that maner.
Types(D,II,I,,M,N,O) do not correspond atall--- actually, we expect thatthese verbs do not exist, given the considerations regarding likelycandidates across languages.
'_l'ype- ._l, l~,iObj=Oround,~ Pp=l%ureL2=ai: Obj=Ground, PP=Figure AL2-~.ii: *Obj=Ground, PP=Figure E1.2::aiii: Ol~j=Ground, *PP=Figure lL2=c~iv: *Obj=Gmund, *PP=FigureI.l~ii Ll-~.iii Ll=~iv*Obi=Ground Ol~j=Ground *Obj=GmundPP=l;igureB .
.
.
.
.
*lq~=Figurec .I1F ig .
6.
Cross-Linguistic alternation model: 16 logical types for tile Spray-Load "alternation.Classification of patterns in Fig.
4 for a given verb in languages 1,l and 1,2 into tile following types A-P:(Shaded cells are exact cmsslingtfistic c!?\[respondences.
)247English(a) John decorated the wall with posters.
(b) * John decorated the posters {over,onto .... } the wall.Bengali(a) raam ghar-e pht, l sajiecheRam room-ON flowers decorate'Ram decorated the room with flowe,'s'(b) ramn phul-die ghar sajiecheRam flowers-WITH room decorate'Ram decorated the room with flowers'.Hindi(b) raam phul-se ghar sajayaRam flower-WITH room decorate'Ram decorated the room with flowers'Japan eseJohn-wa kabe-o posutaa-de kazat-ta.John-TOP walI-ACC poster-WITH'John decorated the walt with posters.
'John-wa posutaa-o kabe-ni kazat-ta.John-TOP poster-ACC wall-DATdecorate-PRl vdecorate-PRFrepresentation, though it is not visible at the surfacelevel.
Let us consider another case for MT:Japanese to English:kono heya-wa kabe-ni hana-o kazar-oothis room-TOP waI1-DAT flower-ACC decorate-LET'S(coarsely) translated into:"As for this room, let's decorate the wall with flowers,'but with UL techniques might be more fluently translatecas, "Let's decorate this room by putting flowers on thewall."
Even more broadly, we would like to suggestpromising direction for the development of  our systemConsider the wel l -known diff iculty of  translatin~Japanese -wa phrases into English.
Given the ubiquit)of -wa phrases as compared with the relative rarity oEnglish as-for phrases, we can conclude that renderin t-wa as as-jbr is not the best translation.Let us now consider cases in Japanese and Hindi fiwhich the preposition type element ix visible, and whiclovertly affects the alternation type.Alternat ion Type Change:There are additional crosslinguistic differences, whictmay be observed in the surface form of the verbal structureIn Japanese, one can add the verbal morpheme kake t~oou.
This change, from alternation type F to type H, ishown below.raam ghar-me phul sajaya (a) ~l~lI}-2)Jli/uJ)J~;~,{\[i~C}~ <~ \]coRam room-WITH flowers decorate taroo-wa akanboo-o moofu-de oot-ta'Ram decorated the room with flowers' Taroo-TOP baby-ACC blanket-WITH cover-PP, F'Taro covered the baby witb the blanket.
'As in the case of cover discussed above, the explanationis quite simple within our framework.
For the English (b)* ~f'l~}~.
(li~gJj?/~,JJi}c_N.<,?C_overb decorate, there is an incorporated preposition, * tamo-wa mooft,-o akanboo-ni oot-tanamely with, in its lexical representation.
There is a Taro-TOP bhmket-ACC baby-DAT cover-PRFtype clash because the direct object cannot be both f igure 'Taro covered the blanket over the baby.
'and ground, in the case of  "*John decorated posters onthe wall"; see Fig.
7.
* laroo-wa akanboo-o llloo\['tl-de, ooi-k,'lke-taTaro-TOP blanket-ACC baby-DAT cover-OVIHGPRI:' Taro covered the blanket over the baby.
'ii \[ 0 ~ taroo-wa moofu-o akanboo-ni I John Idec?rate( ) posters on( , Taro-TOP blanket-ACC baby-l)AT I 'Taro cove,'ed tim bkmket over the baby.'
ooi-kake-ta cover-OVER-PP, IFig.
7.
Type clash with "decorate posters on the In Japanese, kake acids an aspect of  'trajectory' t,wall", tile verb sense.
More precisely, as the gloss 'oversuggests, kake rescues oou from its type clash just aTo address one of our main points, cases like the one the preposition with does in English.
ltowever, 'cormin Fig.
7 pose special problems for machine translation cannot be so rescued in English simply because there ibecause the translation of  the word sense of English no morphological life raft.
Note further that the exampldecorate into its Japanese counterpart kazeru does not in (a) just above also behaves as expected with ,'espechave a similar type clash.
Thus the problem is that the to the llolistic effect.
In (a) akanboo-o 'haby'  is thEnglish verb has a preposition frozen,into its lexical248direct object, and the baby is understood to be whollycovered.
Sentence b' has no such effect regarding thebaby.
mIn Hindi, one can replace dhaknaa ('cover') withdakh-denaa ('give cover').
This morphological changeturns a type F alternation contrast into a type B, asdescribed in Fig.
6.
(a) jOn-ne kapre-se bacce-ko dhakaJohn-ERG cloth-WlTtl chihI-ACC cover'John covered the baby with a cloth'(b) *jOn-ne kapre-ko baccc-ke-upar dhakaJohn-ERG cloth-ACC baby-ON.TOP.OF cover(a)' jOn-ne kapre-se bacce-koJohn-ER(\] cloth-WlTll child-ACC'John covered the baby with a clotlfdhak-di-yaacover-give-PRF(b)' iOn-he kapre-ko bacce-ke-upar dhak-di-yaaJohn-ERG cloth-ACC baby-ON.TOP.OF covcr-givePl>,FPut briefly, our view is that variation of lexicalt:~ehavior across languages is exactly like lexicalwtriationwithin languages, specifically, the differencelies in the presence or absence of certain morphemes.Ontologically speaking, then, what language parametersare is the presence or absence of lexical material in themorphological  component.
The observed patterns inlanguage variation is then reflected in morphologicalsystematicity.
For example, the fact that Japanese hasricher possibilities in certain verbal patterns is derivedfrom its morphological inventory.
In specific, the reasonthat it is impossible for English verbs to behave likecertain corresponding Japanese verbs is that English lacksan equivalent of tim Japanese aspectual morphetnests'ukusu 'exhaust' ,  kakeru ' trajectory verb',  etc) ~ Butrecall, we find that load, for example does behaveprecisely like its corresponding verbs in Japanese, llindi,Bengali, and Greek.
in cases where verbs do m)tappear to behave alike, apparent differences are resolvedhy a process of language particula," morphologicalbehavior: lor example, the verbal suffixes (and prefixes)of Japanese such as - t sukusu 'exhaust '  alter verbargument  structure enough to bring them intocor respondence with their former Engl ish non-counterparts.ConclusionWe believe that our approach is applicable universally.Future work to be done is to complete our survey o1' theapproximately 150 types of verbal alternations of Levinmlt might be tmderstood pragmatically to entail that perhaps theparents were wo,'ried about covering the baby too much, and wantedto allow the baby to breathe asily by allowing its bead, Ibr example,to remain uncovered.
In brief, here it is the compositional belmviorof morphemes that yields different alternation pa!adigms.
(1993), and augment our analysis with further ideas fromHale and Keyser (1993), Pustejovsky (1990, 1991 b), andothers, and to extend the coverage to Japanese and otherlanguages.
Our highly constrained system should alsoprov ide  h igh ly  des i rab le  c i rcumscr ip t ion  ofcomputational lexicons.
Given the universal aspects ofour lexical representations, we also expect manageableapplications to machine translation, along the lines thatwe have suggested.References\]hnonds, J.E.
(1991).
Subcategorization a d Syntax-BasedTheta-Role Assignment.
Natttral xmguage andLinguistic Theory.
9.llale, K. andS.J.
Keyser (1993).
On Argument Structure and theI+exical F, xpression of Syntactic Relations.
In 77re Viewfi'om Bulding 20: F+ssays in Linguistics in Honor ofSyh,ain Bromberget, Kenneth 1 lale and Samuel JayKeyser (eds), MIT Press.Jackendoff, R. (1993).
On the Role of Conceptual Slructure inArgument Selection: A Reply to lhnonds.
NaturalLanguage attd Linguistic 7?leory, I I.I,evin, B.
( \[ 993).
F, nglish Verb Classes arid Alter, ations ~ AI'reliminary Investigation '" The University of ChicagoPress.Marlin, S.I';.
(1975).
A ReJelence Grammar of Japanese, YaleUniversity Press.Makino, T. (1991).
Natural I,anguage Processing (in Japanese),pi).84, Oomu-sha lad., ISBN4-274-07658-Xl:ukui, N., S. Miyagawa, aml C.. Tenny.
(1985).
Verb Classes inl';nglish and Jap,'mese: A Case Study in the ltlteraction ofSyntax, Morphology and Semantics.
Lexicon l"rojcetWorking F'apers ++13, MIT.Pustejovsky, J.
( 1991 a).
The Gerterative Lexicon.
ComputationalLinguistics, 17.4.Pustgiovsky, .I.. (1991b).
The Syntax of Event Structure.Cognition.
41.3.Sanseedoo.
(1990) New Crown Japanese-l{nglish Dictionmy I?ev.5,Sanseedoo l+td.
JapanTalmy, l,.
(1978).
Figure and Ground inComplcx Sentences, in,losel)h (hecnhcrg (ed.)
Uttiversalx oJ' l htman Lan2uage :Syntax, Vol 4.
Stardord.249
