A TREATMENT OF FUNCTIONAL DEFINITE DESCRIPTIONSHajime WadaIntelligent Text Processing, Inc.1310 Montana, Suite 201, Santa Moniea, CA 90403, USAhw@itpinc.com1.
INTRODUCTIONFunctional anaphoric expressions are referring expres-sions whose references are identified with respect to refer-ences of other objects in a discourse.
Among a few types offunctional anaphoric expressions such as Wh expressionsand pronouns (Cooper 1979, Engdahl 1984, Kamp 1984,Chierchia 1993), definite descriptions provide alocution forfunctional expressions.
A typical example is as follows:(1) Every book about Picasso made the author ich.In (1), 'the author' does not have its usual sense of theantecedent, such as 'an author', anywhere in the discourse.Instead, the reference of 'the author' is detomined withrespect o the reference of 'book'.
In other words, thedescription, 'author', works as a function that akes a referentfor 'book' as an argument and returns a value that is thereferent for 'author'.
Kamp (1984) calls this kind of expres-sions Functional Definite Descriptions (hence, we followhim here, mid call them FDD for short, and DD for definitedescriptions).
In this paper, I will call 'book' a functionalantecedent of FDD 'author' and its resulting anaphoric linkbetween 'book' and 'author' a functional anaphoric link.This paper describes a classification of FunctionalDefinite Descriptions and proposes an analysis of FDDbased on a claim that FDD behave more like pronominaisthan definite descriptions.
This paper also reports an imple-mcnu~tion of the U'eatment described here in an English textunderstanding system, Interprctext, atITI J.2.
RANGE OF FDDWhen we process real texts, it is apparent that FDD isa non-trivial part of the use of definite descriptions.
FDDconstitutes a large portion of l)l) use among so-called first-mention use.
In a recent study of a Swedish corpus, Fraurud(1990) reports that 60.9% of toted I)D occurrences me first-mention use, aud such complex 1)1) as the ones in the formof ' the X of Y' in corresponding English structures (a typicalform of Iq)D) accounts for 41.2% among the first-mentionuse.
Since FDD can be found among simple DD, thepercentage of FDD further increases.
Although Fraurud'sstudy reveals its importance in Swedish, it is easy to assumea comparable situation in English.
In literature, FDD isusually regarded as a limited phenomenon that is difficult oformalize.
Itowevcr, such a view toward I,Z)D is short-sighted since it not only undermines the importance of I'\])Dwith respect to other use of DI), but also misses the importantrelations to functional anaphoric expressions in other cat-egories.Hawkins (1978) studies various usage of definite de-seriptions and proposes an analysis based on the theory ofFamiliarity.
Two of his usage of the first-mention tel'mitesare FDD under consideration here: an associative use such as'a car' - 'the steering wheel', and a larger situation use suchas 'a town' - 'the church', l ie claims that in these casescommon knowledge shared by a speaker and the hearer isvery general and inferable from lexical information withoutpragmatic information.
Hawkins' study signifies the impor-tance of Familiarity presupposition f definite descriptionsas well as the range of definite descriptions although isstudy covers only file major usage and misses ome impor-tant issues, which we will examine below.Kamp (1984) provides the first but very insightfulformal semantic analysis of FDD.
In Kmnp's DiscourseReprcsentation theoretic treatment of FDD, a head noun ofFDD always introduces a new reference marker for theindividual that it denotes and a functional anaphoric referentinto a universe of the DRS.
t ie notes that FDD ranges overtypes of functional referents.
That is, if the functionalreferent of FDD is pronominal, the l~7)D needs to utilizepronominal resolution mechanism, and if demonstrative,then demonstrative r solution mechanism.
Kamp's worksuggests the range of FDD distribution is wider than thatsuggested by ltawkins mid shows us a point of departure.Lobner(1985) proposes an analysis of DD based on alexical distinction among nouns; sortal nouns, functionalnouns, and non-functional relational nouns.
Sortal nouns aretypical nouns that denotes individuals.
Functional nouns arerelational nouns with situational arguments.
Ile studies awide range of FDDs and classifies many of them into a bagof functional nouns.
As a result, functional nouns include'weather', 'time', 'sun', 'speaker', 'hearer', 'president','referee', bride', 'head', 'top', 'surlace', height', weight','birth', 'death', 'beginning', end', etc.
l ie points out thattimctionai nouns allow modifications with pp, adjectives andadverbs, but non-functional nouns do not.
Thus, the fact that'the present wife' is acceptable but 'the present son' is notindicates the difference between functional nouns and non:functional relational nouns.
However, even seemingly non-controversial relational noun such as 'daughter' can fredcertain situation where it is modified by a pp.
For example,a man has two daughters, one studying in L.A. and the otherworking in Seattle.
We may refer to his daughters 'thedaughter in L.A. and the daughter in Seattle'.
This difficulty789in distinguishing functional and non-functional nouns is oneof the major problems in Lobner's treatment.
Another majorproblem is the lack of constraining mechanism on linking.For example,(2) John's friend got married.Usually John takes pictures of a wedding.The bride hesitated to be photographed.It is not difficult for normal English speakers to identify thefunction of the second sentence as a background information.Therefore, the intended functional link from 'the bride' in thethird sentence should be to the first sentence, tlowevcr,Lobner's analysis incorrectly allows a link between 'thebride' in the third sentence and 'a wedding' in the secondsentence.In a recent study, Chierchia (1993) proposes a treat-ment of FDD based on his theory of Dynamic Binding.Chierchia represents functional anaphoric links by co-index-ing a functional antecedent with a superscript and FDD witha subscript as shown below.
IIe calls this a-indexation.
(1') Every book i about Picasso made the author i rich.l ie claims a-indexed anaphoric links are comparable topronominal anaphoric links.
This means that FDD shouldfollow the same constraints on the pronominal anaphoriclinks.
The idea behind this claim is very similar to Kamp'sidea for elliptic DI)D. qhat is, both studies note certainsimilarity between FDD and pronominal possessives.
Ineffect, both studies can explain why the following FDD linkis not felicitous in terms of accessibility of pronominalanaphora.
(3) Every book i about Picasso was published byMr.King.#The author i became rich.However, Chierchia's tudy does not consider other FDD,those that Kamp analyzes.
Also, it fails to explain a pair ofsentences such as follows:(4) a.
Usually it" John meets every pastor who a&ninis-ters a wedding i, he writes to the bride i.b.
#Usually if John meets every boy who has aninteresting book i, he writes to the author i.Notice that (4-a) and (4-b) are structurally identical whileFDD is felicitous in (4-a) but infelicitous in (4-b).In what follows, I will present aclassification of I'T)Ds andtheir analyses based on DRT.3.
TWO CLASSES OF FDDIn this paper, I propose that FDD should be classifiedinto two basic types according to their semantic haracteris-tics.
The first class is called relational 1~73D and the secondnon-relational FDI).
Relational FDD denotes relations be-tween objects and these relations are lexical properties ofhead nouns of FDD.
Kinship terms uch as 'son', 'mother','sister', etc.
are typical examples of relational nouns.
Non-relational FDD denote functions from sets of individuals toindividuals.
A typical example is a superlative noun phrasesuch as 'the tallest ree'.
Ordinal number modification suchas 'the third man' and identifying adjective modificationsuch as 'the identical book' are other possible xamples ofthis type.
The distinction between relational and non-relational 1,7)D is characterized below:l-i) relational FDD takes an object in a givendiscourse as its functional antecedent and forms afunctional anaphoric link,1-ii) such a functional anaphofic link is licensed bylexical characteristics of the functional description ofthe head nouns,and l-ili) relational FDD and their functionalantecedents can form a construction of "FDD of(anteceden0",while2-i) non-relational lq)D takes a selection set insteadof all object as a fimctional antecedent,and 2-ii) the link is licensed by a modifier such assuperlative, ordinal number, or identifying adjectiverather than a head uoun of FDD.4.
RELATIONAL FDDFunctional anaphoricity of Relational FDD is markedby a head noun's lexical property.
That is, only relationalnouns can be heads of relational FDD.
There are certainsubclasses of relational FDDs.
I propose three subclasses:FDD based on i) lexical relations, ii) temporal/locational,and iii) situational roles.
Lexical relational FDD is charac-terized by their paraphrasability wilh true possessives (thatis, both forms of "X's Y" and "Y of X").
In effect, thissubclass constitutes the largest group mnong l-7)Ds.
Situ-ational Role FI)D is marked by social roles and professionssuch as 'judge' and 'bride'.
Another subclass, temporal/locational I71)1) is marked by relations with time and loca-tion.4.1.
FDD based on Lexical RelatiorLsPossessives and RelationsThis class is marked by the paraphrasability to posses-sive constructions.
That is, I assume that FDD with lexicalrelations must be paraphrased by both forms of"X'  s Y" and"the Y of X".
In other words, if English lexicon includesconcepts such as relations denoted by certain class of nouns,this information must be shared by many constructions inEnglish, and I assume that it is the case that possessives,compound nouns, and FDD utilize this information.
Further-more, possessive paraphrasability of this type of FDD cap-tares their similarity to the pronominal anaphor that appearinpossessiveconstructions aspossessorpronominals.
If thisis con'ect, then it predicts that this type of FDD obeys theconstraints on anaphoric links that prouominals obey.Barker (1991) proposes a semantic analysis of posses-sive constructions based on an ,assumption that all posses-790sives are base generated.
Following Abney's (1987) DI'hypothesis, Barker proposes the following syntactic analysisof possessives.
(5) Johu's motherDP~ss \ ]  D' /,,,..l ie claims that a relation from a possessor to a possessee islexically detenniuedifthepossessee i  arclational noun suchas 'sou', 'mother', etc.
Such relations are represented bynon-monadic predicates.
For example, 'mother' will betranslated by a dyadic predicate 'mother' such as follows:(6) \[\[motherl\] = ~.x~y \[mother(x,y)\]When a possessee is not a relational noun, then thepossessive denotes a l~lation based on general ownership orsome sort of closeness relations, aud Barker calls suchrelations an extrinsic relation.
Ileproposes the following twosemat~tic r~mslations lbr possessive determiners correspond-ing to the above distinction.
(7) a.
\[\[0\[poss\]l\] = ~RIR\]b.
\[\[0\[poss\]\]\] = kl'~xky\[p(x,y) & P(y)\]qhe la'anslation i  (7-a) is used in the case ofa lexical relation,while p in (7-b) denotes ml extrinsic relation such as owner-ship.
When they are used in the ~malyses of"Johu' s mother"and "John's human", resulting trmlslations are as lollows:(8) a.
\[\[John's mother\]l =~y\[mother(j,y)\]b.
\[\[John's hunum\]\] = kYlPO,Y) & hunmn(y)\]Note that 'mother' is a relational noun while'humau' is not.The above translations explain why the "bureau of John" isungrmmnatical asopposed to the gnunmatical counterpart,"the mother of John".
A noun, 'Y' in the toml of "X's Y",cau be either elational or non-relational, but 'Y' in file formof "the Y of X" must be relational.
Therefore, a uon~relational lOUU such as 'hnn|au' C~UlUOt form all expression"the human of X".
Barker's analysis provides a g~dtbundation lot our insight on relations in functional descrip-tions in general.
Now, we say a noun X is relational if ~mdonly if it allows both "Y's X" and "X of Y".
All relationalnouns are tr,-mslated into nou-nlonadie predicates.ill the above discussion, we did not inquire on the statusof definite articles in the lonn of"the Y of X".
One may askwhether or not ",ill relation~d nouns in the lbnn of "Y of X"require definite articles, and file auswer is obviously NO.
Itseems that only a certain sct of relations possess the unique?uess presupposition  the arguments of the relations.
Forexample, arelalion 'mother~of(X,Y)' that means that Y is themother of X possesses the uniqueness presupposition thesecond argument but not on the first argmneut.
In conuast,a relation 'sou-of(X,Y)' thin means Y is a son of X h~ts theuniqueness pl~esuppositiou n the first argument but not tintile secoud.
Relations generally deseribe property/character-istic of one individual that occupies ORe argument of therelatiou.
Let us call this argument the primary argument ofa rclatilai as oppose to the referential rgument that links toa rctcrent of the functioual antecedent.
In 'mothcr-of(X,Y)'Y is the prhnary argmneut and in 'son-of(X,Y)' Y is theprhnary argument, q\]ms, ifaprhnary argument ofarclationY is presupposed asunique, a definite ,'u'ticle is required inthe Ibnn of "Y of X".
This is the reason why 'mother' in'mothcrof' rcquircs adefinite articlebut not 'son' in 'sonof'.Uuiqucncss presuppositi(ms on certain arguments ofrelations are clearly lexical in natnre.
Definite articles in1"1)1) rellcct this lexically marked presupposition.
Caseswithout uuiqueness presupposition such as 'son-of should becalled Functional Indefinite l)escriptions (FID) (See Wada(fotfllcoming) lot further discussion on this type of Func-tional Anaphora).AccessibilityNow, we extend the scope of ore' examiuation fl'olnpossessive-based sliuctures to other cases uch as 'a book''the author'.
Siucc 'author' is a relalion',d noun, we anliciopate that tile same kind of analysis is possible to the analysisof 'the author'.
From file previous discussion, we know thatthe relational fuuctional auaphotic link between 'a book' ,'rod' the author' is possible provided that"the author of file book"~md "the tx~k's author" are both legitimate xpressions.
Inother words, 'auti~of is a relational noun that denotes adyadic lexical 1"clarion 'author'.
The two arguments of therelation are a relcreut for a salient book in a diseour~ aud areferent that is the nuiquely identifiable author of tile book.However, the expression "the author" needs to be linkedanaphoricaly to its functional antecedent, n~mlely 'a book'.Kamp assumes timt there is a selection set lbr this definitedescription and the most salient individual hi the set will beselected as its antecedent.
This is no different from regul~ttdefinite description s~zsolution.
Nonetheless, we need to addsonic details It this.As poiuted out by Chiefchia (1993), tile functional,'umphoric lille must be conslaained.
Both KampaudChierchiaassume that lq)l) can be ~malyzable as pronominal posses~sives.
The axmphorie links that are interpreted li'om para-phr,'tsed pronomiuals and their antecedents mnst lollowgeneral constraints on pronominals.
In I)RT, such a con-straint is called tile accessibility condition based on weaksubordin~Uioa relation (_>) between DRSs.
Keanp and Reyle(1993:120) define it as follows:(9) Accessibility Conditionl~et K be a DRS, x a discourse referent and ~ a l)RS~couditioLL We say that x is accessible froin 3t ill K iffthere are K _> K 1 and K 1 > K 2 such that x belongs toUK1 and 3t belongs to COnK2.The above cxmdition roughly tells that wheu ,'in expressioncan be interpreted as anaphoric to a certain entity, thatauaphoric expression must reside within some extention of7~)1tile DRS in which the antecedent entity resides.
FDD is noexception to this condition.
Let us repeat he example of( I )and its variation here.
(10 a.
Every book about Picasso made the author ich.b.
Every book about Picasso was published by Mr.King.#The author became rich.The contrast shown in the above sentences i  comparable tothe following pair.
(11) a.
Every book about Picasso made its author ich.b.
Every book about Picasso was published byMr.King.#Its author became rich.The pronominal possessive, 'its', appears in exactly the samelocation in the above sentences a  the FDD s in (10).
It seemsunarguable toassume that the two obey the same constraint.Indeed, it is more consistent to treat FDD as pronominalanaphora than to treat it as definite anaphora when weconsider that referential arguments introduce regular dis-course referents such as pronominals.In sum, we observed that lexical relational FDD islicensed by lexical relations of the head nouns.
The relationsforce uniqueness presupposition  the primary argumentsof the relations.
Furthermore, like pronominal anaphoriclinks, functional anaphoric links obey accessibility condi-tion.
In the following section, we examine other relationalFDDs and see whether the above observed characteristicshold.4.2.
FDD based on Situational RolesCertain relations do not keep regular sense of relationsthat would typically be held between two individuals.
Thatis, those that we consider here usually do not allow para-phrasing "X's Y" and "the Y of X" interchangeably.
In thissection, we consider agroup of nouns that denote a relationbetween asituation and its unique clement.
Let us examinean example first.
(12) John attended a wedding last week.The bride was his ex-giflfriend.Hawkins pointed out that both a speaker and a hearer musthave a shared knowledge about a common situational set-ting.
In (12), it is non-controversial to assume generalknowledge that 'the bride' is a unique and necessary role inthe situation of 'a wedding'.
I claim that role nouns such as'bride' are closely related to certain situations and that due tothis close relationships, functional anaphoric links are pos-sible.
Nouns of typical social roles and professions such as'president', referee', 'judge', 'lawyer', 'driver', 'victim','murderer' satisfy for this use ofFDD (Lobner (1985:294)).I assume asituational role noun is non-monadic predi-cate whose first argument (referential argument) holds areferent for a situation.
For example, 'the bride' is repre~sented in the following way.bride(S,x)'S' in (13) is a discourse referent for a situational rolereferential rgument of"bride".
Like functional antecedentsof relational nouns, 'S' will be resolved with a functionalantecedent.
Some examples of situation ,setting nouns are'wedding', court', 'case', 'incident', accident', 'class room','restaurant', etc.
I call these words situation triggers.
Iassume that ypical situation triggers and their FDDs must beavailable in the lexicon as part of common-sense knowledgeof English.
For example, 'bride' should mark its situationtrigger 'wedding' in the lexicon.
Of course, this is a trivialsolution and we need to determine formal characterization ofsituation and situation triggers as well as more generalsolution based on common sense reasoning.Subordination and Situational Role FDDBecause Situational Role FDD always appear with acertain situational setting, it is often the case that we see thefollowing kind of contrast.
(14) a.
Usually if John meets every pastor who adminis-ters a wedding, he writes to the bride.b.
#Usually if John meets every boy who has aninteresting book, he writes to the author.Notice that since (14-a) and (14-b) are structurally identical,both 'wedding' and 'book' should not be accessible to'bride' and 'author', respectively.
As we see in (14), it is notthe case.
Presumably, (14-a) is represented in the followingI)RS.
(14'-a)bt de(S, z) I adn~ister(x,y) \[~ K 4  KKK1'y' is in UK4 and is subordinated in K2.
Therefore, it is clcarthat 'y' is not accessible to S in UK3.
The question hem iswhy seemingly impossible link is allowed in (14-a) but notin (14-b).It has been known that here arc several cascs in whichthe accessibility condition violation does not result in infe-licitous anaphoric links.
Roberts (1987) provides a DRTbased analysis for a similar phenomenon with pronominalanaphora.
Consider the following example.
(15) I larvey courts a girl at every convention.She always comes to the banquet with him.She claims that a pronominal 'she' is linked to 'a girl' sincetile second sentence is modally subordinated in the conse-792quent of the DR conditional in the first sentence.
In otherwords, the second sentence isunder the quantification f thesituation in the first sentence due to the lact that he modalilyappears in the second sentence.
Notice that even in (15), anincidence of FI)D is apparent: 'the banquet' is functionallylinked to 'convention'.In (14-a), we c,'m safely assume that the consequentsentence is subordinate othe DR condilional' s consequent,while in (14-b) such explanation does not seem to be avail-able.
Once again, we see a certain simih-uity bctwecnpronominal anaphora nd situational role lq)D.4.3.
FDD Imsed on Temporal/Lncational RelationsThe third group to consider here consists of the follow-ing kinds of expressions.
(16) a. the mottling of December 31the spring of 1988b.
the midst of Rmnadanthe beginning of thc war(17) a. the top of the housethe edge of the bridgethe side of the cat'the bottom of the bottleb.
the north of Londonc.
the middle of the bridgeNote that all of the head nouns in the above FDI) denoteeither temporal as in (16) or locational points as in (17) withrespect o oilier temporal ~w locative lXfints.
What makesthese FI)D distinctive from file two other relational Fl)l)sexamiucd so lar is 1) that Ihey caimot be p,'uaphrascd bypossessivc conslnlclion of the form "X's Y" although "the Yof X" form is acceptable as shown at)eve; that is, they are no|lexical relations, and 2) that they arc not situaliomd roles.Furthcrmorc, as a group, these nouns typically link to func-tional antecedents that arc anchored expressions.Notc that his obscrvation allows us It consider certainclose relationship bctwccn this subclass and expressionssuch as l~)llows:(18) the city of New Yorkthe port of Los AngelesExprcssions in (18) arc usually considcrcd as proper names,i.e., anchored cxprcssions.
Noncthclcss, it is possible toconsidcr 'lhc city o1" as a fnnclion.4.4.
DRT Treatment  of  Relat ional  F I )DAll of the relational FDI)s are translated into non-monadic relational predicates.
The number of argmnentsdepend upon relations toxically sp(y.:ificd in the lexicon forrelational nonns, l:or example, most ()1' kinship terms aredyadic predicates but some derived nominals will have thesame numhcr of arguments as the mmlber of arguments hatIheir verbal countcrpmls X)SSeSS.Nonetheless, at the time of traqslating a telatiomdnoun, whether or not the noun is used anaphorically, func-tional anaphorically, or non-anaphorically is not known.
"l'herefore, we cannot select an appropriate DRS construc-tion principle at the time ofWanslation ofFDD.
What I wouldlike to propose is that we lranslate FDD into non-monadierelation predicates but do nothing more than the translationat this time.
I hypothesize that any un-instantiated referentialargument introduces all anaphoric type reference marker.This rcfcrencc marker can be processed further in threeways: finding its antecedent, linding its functional anteced-cnt, and finding neithcr its m~teeedent or its functionalantecedent.
The lbllowing FDD construction rule states theabove scnario.
(19) FDD CRGiven a relational FDD phrase 'the N',1) Introduce a relational condition, R, with anappropriate argument structure in Con K.2) Introduce a new reference marker, n, for aprinciple m'gument of R in U K.3) Introduce a set of new reference markers for therest of the argnments of R in U K.4) Substitute u for 'the N' in p.Let us take an cx,'unple of relational IT)l) and see how theabeve CR will be applied.
(20)/lsmdly if John buys an interesting book, he writesto the author.At the time of translating the phrase, 'to the author', we havethe following DRS under constx~ction.
(21-l)Jot.~ 0) I /N .
Ibuy(el,j,al) l",.
/ '1  x=\[\] book(M) I v / write(e2,x,Y)interesting(al) \] \[ 'to the author'Since 'author' is a relational noun, the lexicon providesinformation coneenting its lexical denotation of the relation,n,'unely a predicate 'author' with two argument position.
Theabove lq)D conslrnction rule produces a DRS as follows:(21~2)j, al, el \] \[ x, e2,thel,y ,j,)r~(j) " - IA I -x=EI  'buy(el,j,al) \ [ /  ~ wdte(e2,x,lhel)bookOl) IV  I y=l\]interesting(al) JKI \[ author(y,lhel)  lK0At Ihis moincnt, three things must be done: 1) resolve 'x',which is lk)r the pronoun, 'he', 2) resolve 'thel ' ,  which strandslot the entity of'authod, and 3) resolve 'y', that stands for thefimctional antecedent lot 'author'.Resolving 'x' with 'j' is trivial.
'j' is the only entity thatis accessible to 'x' with gender, number satisfaction.
}low-793ever, 'thel' cannot be resolved with any antecedent sincethere are no previously mentioned 'author' or deicticallysalient antecedent available from the above DRS.
What wehave to do is to accommodate it.
Thus, we leave 'thel' inUK2 without doing anything.
Now, we resolve 'y' with 'a l ' ,an entity that stands for 'book'.
'a l '  is accessible to 'y' dueto the extension ofDRS K 1 to K 2.
Note that this functionallink is only possible when the lexicon provides commonsense information that specifies the kind of relation that isheld between 'book' and 'author'.
After these resolutionoperations, we have the following completed DRS.
(21-3)John (j) x=jbuy(e I ~j,a l) wfite(e2,x,the 1)book(at) y=alinteresting(at) author(y,thel)K2K0What happens when there is a previously mentioned phrase?Consider the following example.
(22) Usually if John meets the author of a book, hepraises the author.The first incident of 'author' is the case of explicit FDD inKmnp (1984).
Its functional antecedent is provided by 'of'phrase.
The second occurrence of 'author' is non-function-ally linked to the initial mention of 'author'.
I assume that hesecond incidence of 'author' introduces the same relationalcondition.
And, due to the non-functional link to the initialincidence of 'author', the arguments will be filled with theexact copies of the arguments of the initial 'author'.
There-fore, we have the following DRS.
(23)x i I John (j) x=j meet(el,j,lhe 1) praisc(e2,x,thel) book(al) author(y,the2)author(a l,the 1) the2 = the 1y=al KK0Note that when 'y' is linked to 'a l '  via a regular anaphoriclink of 'the2' to 'thel', it is not nccessury to invoke anotheranapbora resolution procedure for 'y'.
The situation is justthe s,'une ,'ks in the case of explicit FDD such as 'the motherof John'.
The first argument of a relation 'mother(A,thel)'is syntactically connected to entity denoted by the 'ogphrase.5.
NON-RELATIONAL FDDA group of FDD that we call non-relational FDD areIT)Ds such as "the tallest man", "the third book", and "thesame girl".
They all lake obligatory definite articles but arelirst mentions without having regular sense of antecedents.However, the references of the three exmnples are deter-mined with respect o some sets of individuals in the dis-course.
This cetlainly satisfies our definition of FDD.Nonetheless, the function and the mechanism underlying thefunction differ substantively from relational FDD discussedso far.
In this section, we will see how they differ and I willsketch atreatment for this class of FDD briefly.
I would liketo refer eaders to the work (Wada (forthcoming)) for furtherand detailed iscussion on non-relational FDD.First of all, relational H)D and non-relation FDD differstructurally.
A typical syntactic structure of relational FDDis an NP of the form \[np \[dot the\], \[nbar \[n A\]\]\].
N (lexically'A' in the form) must be a relational noun and it can take acomplement 'of' phrase.
Non-relational FDD, on the otherhand, must contain an adjunct phrase headed by one ofelements uch as superlative adjectives, ordinal numerals,and identifying adjectives like 'very' and 'same'.
Thus, itstypical form is \[np \[det the\], \[nbar \[x, 'A'\], \[n 'B'\]\]\].
'A' isthe FDD licensing lexical element and 'B' is any noun.Second, the functional link of non-relational FDD islicensed by a head of the adjunct phrase such as a superlativeadjective, an ordinal number, or an identifying adjectiverather than ahead noun (relationalnoun) ofFDD.
I call theseheads of adjunct phrases functional modifiers.
Functionalmodifiers denote functions that introduce discourse referentswhich will be resolved with functional m~tecedents in adiscourse.Third, non-relational FDD takes a selection set insteadof an object as their functional antecedents.
A selection setis a maximal set of objects in a given discourse that satisfiesdescriptions in the head nouns of the non-relational FDD.The phenomenon is reminiscent toplural anaphora where theantecedents are usually maximal sets.Finally, the uniqueness presupposition f the referentof non-relational FDD is provided by the lexical/semanticcharacteristics of the functional modifiers while it is due tothe lexical relation of the head noun in relational l~7)D.In this paper, we examine three subclasses ofthis FDD:superlatives such as 'the strongest man', ordinal ntmabermodification such as 'the third book', and identifying adjec-tive modification such as 'the stone car'.Basic Analysis of Non-relational FDDKamp (1984) provides an analysis of superlative con-structions.
In that, he treats superlatives as a set ofcomparatives under a universal quantifier that introduces aDRT-conditional.
The set of comparatives are distributedover members of the selection set given in the discourse.Kamp shows this selection sot as analogous to 'among them'.Consider the following.
(24) Three men came to harvest rice.The weakest man operated a combine machine.The superlative 'the weakest man' takes maximal set of 'thethree men who came to harvest rice' as its functional anteced-ent and returns the unique individual thatsatisfies a conditionthat this individual is weaker than any member of the setexcept himself.
The following DRS represents Kamp's794treatment of superlatives.
(24') Xt the l  , .man(X)card ina l i ty (X ,3)X came to harve,gt r iceman( f l te l )x g X le l  is  weaker  than xx ?
the lIn our treatment, we add a dyadic predicate 'weake st(X, the 1 )'to the above representation to indicate that he the set of threemen is the functional antecedent of this lq)D and the set isdislxibuted over members of the set.Both ordinal numeral phrases and identifying adjec-tives a~e analyzed to have the s,'une logical structures as thesuperlative adjectives discussed above.
The ordinal numeralcase is based on enumeration operations via DRT-condi-tional instead of a set of comparisons under an universalquantifier.
Once enumeration peration takes place, each ofthe members of a set can be refen'ed with an index, the ordinalnumber.
The identifying adjective case is treated exactly likethe case of superlatives.6.
IMPI,EMENTATION dE FDD RESOLUTION1TP's Interprctext natural language understanding sys-tem has been under development ill the past few years.
Wereported some early results in MUC3 Conference and else-where (Dahlgren, et at.
1991).
The system includes a largeNaive Semantic lexicon, a principle-based wide coverageparser with a sense disambiguation mechanism, a DRSconstruction module, an anaphora resolver, mid lexical anddiscourse database handlers.
FDI) resolution was imple-mented as part of a large anaphora resolution mechanism.hi file implementation, searching order antong hypoth-eses is very hnportmit.
Certain ordering eliminates possibili-ties of available resolution, mid other cases cause increase illprocessing load of the resolution.
Thus, our goal is to reducethe processing load as much as possible by reducing searchspace and to reduce resolution errors by setting item specifichypotheses ordering at the stone time.All of tim FDI) arc potential instances of shnple subse-quent-mention I)D. For exmnplc, a DI) with a lexicalrelational noun such as 'the mother' may have a regularantecedent such as 'a mother' in the discourse.
Althoughfirst-mention DDs that include l:Dl)s arc statistically morecommon than typical subsequent-mention l)Ds, a possibilityof being subsequent-mcntion DD should be tested first, qhisis because of tile fact that the range of description satisfyingantecedents are more constrained than the range of function-ally satisfying antecedents.Generally, we should hypothesize more restricted as-sumption before general ones.
In our implementation, eachFDI) subckLss possesses its own set of ordered hypotheses.For cxmnple, temporal/Ideational re ation FDD typicallyhave anchored expressions as their lunctitmal antecedentsand our resolution module searches in this restricted area (ananchored object Its0 before it searches in the previousdiscourse.
For another exmnple, situational role FDD checkssimple subsequent-mention case first; if it falls, then it triesto find a situation-trigger in the accessible universe ofdiscourse.
Cun'ently, we have been conducting a large scaleevaluation on anaphora resolution.7.
CONCLUSIONThis paper examined Functional Definite Descriptionsand proposed two types of FDD, relational and non-rela-tional.
The analysis presented here was based on claims thatFDD introduce discourse referents of pronominal type, andthat functional anaphoric links obey the same accessibleconditions that pronominal anaphoric links obey.
FDD isclosely related to functional anaphoric expressions in othercategories such as Functional Indefinite Descriptions.
Tounderstand FDD better, more research on functionalanaphodcexpressions in general will be needed in the future.Asher, N. (1993) Reference to Abstract Objects inDiscourse, Kluwer Academic Publishers.Barker, C. (1991) Possessive Descriptions, Ph.D. thesis,University of California Santa Cruz.Chierchia, G. (1993) Anaphora nd Dynamic Interpreta-tion, LSA Smmner Institute Course material.Cooper, R. (1979) "The Interpretation f Pronouns", inSyntax and Semantics, Vol.
10, eds.
F. IIeny and II.Schnelle, Academic Press: New York.Dahlgren, K. et al (1991) "ITP: Description of theInterpretext System ,'ks used for MUC-3," in Proceed-ings of Third Message Understanding Conference,pp.
79-83, Morgan Kaufinan Publishers.Engdahl, E. (1986) Constituent Questions, Reidel:Dordrecht.Franrud, K. (1990) "Definiteness and the Processing ofNoun Phrases in Natural Discourse" in Journal ofSemantics, Vol.7:pp.395-433.ttawkins, J.
(1978) Definiteness and Indefiniteness,Cl'OOm I Iehn: I,ondon.Kamp, II.
(1984) "SID Without Time and Questions",manuscript.Kamp, II.
and U. Reyle (1993) From Discourse to Logic,Kluwer Academic Publishers.Lobncr, S. (1985) "l)efinitencss", in Journal of Semantics,Vol.
4: pp.279-320.Roberts, C. (1987) Modal Subordination, Anaphora, andDistributivity, Ph.D. thesis, University of Massachu-sells.Wada, H. (lorthcoming) "Functional Anaphoric Expres-sions", manuscript.79,5
