A HYBRID APPROACH TO THE AUTOMATIC PLANNINGOF TEXTUAL STRUCTURESGang Zhu and Nigel ShadboltA.I.
Group, Psychology l)epartment, Nottingham University, Nottingham, U.K.1.
IntroductionOver the last decade, the research goals innatural language generation have shi fred fi'om the gen-eration of isolated sentences tothe production of coher-ent multi-sentence paragraphs.
Two major aspects ofthe generation process have been focused on: deciding'what o say' (the strategic level) and deciding 'how tosay it' (the tactical evel).In 1985, McKeown designed one of the firstsystems to produce paragraphs using so-called sche-mata to describe conventional text structures in termsof patterns.
Schemata are used to determine the contentand order of the clauses in paragraphs (McKeown,1985).
However, these structures have a major limita-tion (Moore and Paris, 1988): schemata do not containa description of tim intentional and rhetorical role thateach part of the paragraph plays with respect o thewhole paragraph.In 1988, How first employed RST (PdmtoricalStructure Theory) relations, which state the relation-ships between individual elements of a text, to controlthe construction of texts (How, 1988).
In developingthis RST-based method, Ho W has discovered that RSTrelations are a powerful tool for planning pa,'agraphs.They support reasoning about he intentions of writersand readers in a very natural way.
Planning with rhe-torical relations affords more flexibility than schcnmta.This method of planning paragraphs builds a tree struc-ture that represents the internal organisation and rhe-torical dependencies between clauses in a text.
P, ntthere is a cost: it is more difficult to assemble an RSTparagraph tree from a set of independent relations thanit is to instantiate and traverse aschema (Hovy, 1991 ).In 1992, Hovy et.
al.
described a new textplanner (Ho Wet.
al., 1992) that identifies the distincttypes of knowledge necessary to generate coherentdiscourse in a text generation system.
These knowl-edge resources are integrated under a planning processthat draws from appropriate resources whateverknowledge isneeded to construct a text.
Though Itovyet.
al.
do not claim to have identified all the knowledgesources required to produce coherent discourse, theirplanner sets a trend for applying multi-knowledgeresources for more complete and flexible phmning oftext.So far, planning techniques have developedfrom the direct application of schemata toward thewider implementation f multi-knowledge r sourcesand diverse l)hmning architectures (McKeown, 1985;Paris, 1987; How, 1988; Moore, 1989; McKeown etal., 1990; Suthers, 1991; Hovy et.
al., 1992).
Whenthese planning mechanisms are implemented in aworking system, efficiency is still an important factorin developing a workable model.
One of the problemsin generation is that of designing aphmning architec-ture that can achieve a good balance between theefficiency of the schema-based approach and the lqex-ibility o1' the RST-based one.
This paper presents ucha hybrid architecture.2.
A llybrid ApproachBoth schema-based and RST-based planningpa,'adigms have advantages and disadvantages.
Ahybrid of the two approaches that preserves their bestaspects - -  the efficiency of tile schema-based para-digm and the flexibility of the RST-based one - -would clearly be usefnl.
What are the possibilities forsuch a hybrid approach?Though the two paradigms seem very differ-ent, tile fact is that a close relationship exists betweenthem.
Schemata re nothing other than stereotypicallyoccurring collections of phms, whereas the plans andtheir plan elements are simply the elementary buildingblocks of schemata (Mann, 1987).
Schcrnata can beviewed as the result of a process where the plans for allof the steps in the process have been compiled into asingle structu re (Moore and Swartout, 1991 ).
Schematacan be used for plmming relatively invariant aspects oftext content and structure.
RST-based plans can copewith less predicable and more volatile.
Both planningparadigms can be inlplementcd if they are properlyrepresenled and manipulated in a hybrid architecture.Two features are of importance in this hybridappro'~ch: (t) different planning mechanisms are re-quired to deal with different extual phenomena and(2) explicit use of multi-knowledge r sources indis-pensable to these n~echanisms.In knowledge resources, there are two types ofpresc,'iptive knowledge: domain-dependent and thedomain-independent knowledge.
Both domain-de-33420+18+16+13 14-15 17 19Nuclear Satellilcs: l{labc.ration13.
The Five Sttu" stipport package,14.
costing 35% of Ihe licorice fee15.
(with a iliiliinltiln of J2500),16. also hlcltldeS free, aUtOlllalic tlpgrades17.
(i.e.
Ill;Ijor releases)I 8. to the products19.
thai you have registered,20.
prel\~rential r les for adding extra copiesof those or <'lily ol\]ler products and Illel/l-Imrships of the new I+l>A User gl'ou I)21.
I~ olh stt ppott packages include discou ntson m~y training or ctmsultancy22+ ordered uring the support periud.Fig.
1: A sample RST "uialysispendent and domain-independent knowledge resourceswill consist of intentional and rhetorical operatorswith associated hierarchical networks.In the hybrid planning rnechanisni advocatedhere, top-down hierarchical expansion is used as tilebasic planning meclmriism.
It retrieves as ll/tlch i.t'or-mation as possible from relewmt knowledge rcsources.In general it does this in a donmin-dcpendent-to-domain-independent order.
This order rel+lecls theidea that an efl'icient planuing mechanism should seekto exploit, whenever possible, stereotypical domain-dependent knowledge resources.
This top-down plan-ning mechanism is combined with other heuristicmeehanistns uch as atl atlgmetlted transitiot/networktraversal, constructive critics and focus modul0s.
Thisapproach makes use of different knowledge rcsOill+eOsand planriing mechanisms and is capable of handlinga number of different extual pbenomeria.3.
A PrototypeA prototype lias been designed to delllOll-strate tiffs hybrid approach to die problem of phlnningtextual structures.
We will first describe how the textdata were collected and analysed.
Based on this data,we will then discuss the kuowledge resources lhatwere identified as important as well as how they are,'epresented.
lqnally we indicnte how the i+lulmitlgmechanisnis are iml:,lenu:nted.3.1.
Test l)ataThe test data are a selection of l:inglish sah:sletters.
These letters are rehltively formalised, in thatsome paragral)hs are fixed while others are morewtried as to whether they appear mid where theyappear.
The letters were written for a restricted read-ership on a specific subject " " i  namely, certain comptt+tot" software products.The textual analysis has bcen carried outaccording to RST, although several modificationshave had to be made.
An exatnple o1' part of a RSTanalysis is given hi Fig.
1.Although RST provides a framework for de-scribing rhetorical relations ali\]Ollg parts of a text, itlacks ;ill explicit representation of the coummnicativeintentions undcrlyhlg the generation of cohol+OiltIiltlltisententiaI text.
In order to COllstrtlct a hybridisedprocessor for various knowledge bases and plannhigilioclialliSlils, we callnot implelnellt RST dh'ectly withits rhctoric'al rotations, but llave to develop additionalhlcntional rol;itions.
RST has to be supplenlontedwith a richer hltoulional context.3.2.
l(nowledt4e I~,esources"Fo plan otlr s;tles letters, we need to developdistinctive domain-dcl)endent and domain-independ-ent knowledge reseurces and thoh" associatedproeosshlg nlcchanisms in a plaunhlg system.l:{;lcll lesourcc represeuts both domaiu+de-pendeltt hlfornr, ttion :.uM donlahl-hldepondout hlfor-tllaliOll, tlierarchical /etworks describe relationsliil+sLII/1OII,~ r,the (:OlltOllts of  otlr knowledge  resources.In this section, we present tim main knowl-ed~o i'ost)tll'CCS that we have st) far Meniifiod, namely:intentional operators, rlietorical operators, and ilet-works over theln.3.2.1.
lntention:d Operatorsh+llClltiOl1~tl ol)(21"~Itt)l+S ~+ll+e Ol'g~Illlscd ;+trOLllldtim intentions of the writer, and tlmir decornpositionsare used to select t'elevant rhetorical operators orapprol-Jrhite speech acts as defirted by Allen (1987).An hlentioruil operator is represented using the for-real theory o f t'ational interaction developed by Coben,1,cvesque, and Perraut (1985).
Each operator has agoal, prerequisites, consh'airlts, ubgoals, and a type.The goal wil l  be brought abotlt by a,i application ot'theOl~JCrtltor.
The stlbgo:.llS mtlst be achieved for stibse-quent application el'the operator.
The prerequisites areconditions which must be.
salisfied, and coustr;ihltsare Colld it ions which Call be ignored if there is rio otherintention:ll operator which has the desired goal.
Thetylx; in eacli operator is either domain-dependent orZ75domain-independent.
Thecriteria for the division be-tween the domain-dependeut and the domain-inde-pendent operators i based on the stereotypic patternsof our analysed texts.
For example, Fig.
2 represents adomain-dependent i tentional operator, Pe,'suade.
Inour system, this operator may be instantiated as anattempt by an agent X to persuade a client Y to take anAction such as buying the agent's Products.
This isachieved by making the client aware of the productsand increasing his desire to take the action of buyingthe product.
The prerequisites indicate that both theagent X and the client Y mutually believe that Informa-tion is about Products, the agent believes hfformation,and the client does not know it.
These prerequisitesnmst be satisfied within the existing knowledge re-sources before the intentional operator can be applied.The constraints, in this case that the client Y is notcompetent to fulfil Action, need to be satisfied at thisstage of processing.
When the constraints happenednot to be satisfied within the existing knowledgeresources, the constraints are then set as a new subgoalfor later expansion.GOAL: persuade(X, Y Action)PREREQUISITES:bmb(X, Y, is(Information, Products))bel(X, hfformation), not(know(Y, hfformation))CONSTRAINTS: not(competent(Y, Action))SUBGOALS: bmb(X, Y, and(bel(Y, l~roducts),increase_desire(Y, Action))TYPE: domain-independentFig.
2: An intentional operator: Persuade3.2.2.
Rhetorical OperatorsRhetorical operators are associated with in-tentional operators.
This association reflects the factthat there are certain rhetorical means of achievingparticular intentional goals.
P, hetorical operators con-sist of seven components: Prerequisites, Constraints,Effects, Nuclear, Satellite, Order and Type.
As wflhour intentional operators the prerequisites must alwaysbe satisfied.
Constraints may be ignored but if they areprocessed they have the same potentkd as constraintsin intentional operators -- they may become new goalsfor the system.
Rhetorical operators as expected tohave clear effects on intended recipients.
Our rhetoricaloperators also possess the important constituents of anuclear and satellite.
They concern how the goalsexpressed in the calling intentional operators are to beachieved-- the actions to be carried out.
There are twotypes of rhetorical operators--  domain-dependent a ddomain-independent:Domain-independent rhetorical operators aregeneral rhetorical operators applicable across a widerange of types of texts.
There are about hirty of themdescribed to date (Mann and Thompson 1987).
Plan-ning with these operators affords more flexibilitythan schemata, because individual operators typi-cally control ess of a paragraph than schemata do;Domain-dependent rhetorical operators arederived fi'om our RST analysis of our task-orienteddata.
l-laving analysed our sales letters we haveklentified those rhetorical operators that seem par-ticular to such computer product sales texts.
Oftenthey arc rather schematic in that one can expectcertain material to be expressed in particnlar ways atcertain parts in the text.3.2.3.
Intentional and Rhetorical NetworksThe intentional network is a hierarchicalstructure that embodies a preferred control structurefor the use o f on r in ten tio nal operators.
The intent ion alnetwork can be used for giving possible developmentof conmmnicative goal(s) with heuristic ordering foran efl'icient schema-based approach.The rhetorical network is derived fi'om severalmain sources: the relations defined in RST (Mann andThompson 1989), which were extended in Hovy'staxonomization l'relations (Hovy et.
al.
1992), andothers as determined by our sldes-letter domain.
This,hetorical network operates together with the otherknowledge resources, by posting the hierarchicalpatterns of intentional operator(s), selecting relewmtspeech act(s), or specifying aspects of g,'ammaticalrealisation.3.3.
l ' lanning MecllanisnlsA text phnumr, in the form of a heuristicplanning process adopted from the layered architec-ture JAM (Carletta 1992) and a top-down hierarchi-cal expansion system based on NOAH (Sacerdoti1977), has been ilnl~lcmentcd tophm cohel'ent para-graphs which achieve agoal.
The goal is configuredwith initial stales designed to affect a reader in aspecified way.During tile main planning process, top-downhierarchical phnming takes place.
This occurs whenintentional operators are expanded into a network ofsubgoal(s), or rhetorical operators are expanded intoa network of aclions.
Planning is also involved whenunsatisfied constraints become new subgoals.
Theremay be several alternative expansions tobe explored.At this point, the organisation of the plan expressedby one or more structure trees may have to be criti-cised to account for interactions between parts ofwhat were previously unanalysed subgoals and ac-tions.
If there exist a g,'oup of structure trees, thesetrees have to be focused through selective heuristics.336InlOU{ ~/o.r \[ Intlial.~jc, a,(bmb(agec,t, client, ?onvincecl(dietd, intonnation(lpa ctelt~ba~)))~\] (k)aI ill all intentional operator~ cite r,t, inlllaLgoal(...)) -~ Ti/~nd~tLf~; tmtiuelil~n dle ~ LP~\] stla si'le: ~ Constraint a~ a subgc, al y~ Decomposition1 F l r  l- ' - - "~_~{ cleric opcr to'\[bmb(agent, client, and(bel(Client,information),increase dedre))\] r - -~- - - - -7  \[ Preser'tati?nalsequenee I- ~ jbmb(egent client and(exped(a?1ent aelion) e0e,-,t(elie,'lt, achon)))\] ~ ~ ~ .
_"- .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
~ " - - ' "  ....... ' ...... ' - '  ~ ' ~  ~/  { 1-21,. , , _  I I / bmb(agent client and(present believe)) .
.
.
.
~ 3,1-38 Nucleus Nucleus1-33 j Nucleus Salellit e 1-25Satellite ~ ~1-33 1-21IVD \]\]VA\]\]ON El&43 L Ef...EI..J T FVESEI,KA'IIONf, LSEQUENCEFig.
3: A simplified tol>-Icvcl planning process for |we alternative l xtua\[ structuresThese heu,'istics prefer structures with less subgoalsremaining or lower cost estimates in the knowledgehierarchical networks.
We call these critic processesheuristic ordering mechanisms.For example, Fig.
3 shows a simplified top-level planning process for two alternative t xtual struc-tures.
The initial goal is that the writer or agent wishesto convince the client about in formation concerning onLPA database products.
The two alternative structuresof Fig.
3 represent two different plans that our systemcan generate so as to achieve the initial goal.
The twoplans vary in terms of whether the text is lengthy andpersuasive, lse short and informative.
The persuasive,lengthy setting results in an olmrator being selected toincrease the client's desire to buy tile products.
But aconstraint oftheoriginal persuade operato,'is expanded.The operator attempts to increase the client's ability totake advantage of his strengthened desire to buy theproducts.
This will result in text lmt attempts o producea means of cnablement to increase the ability to satisfythe desire.
Motivation and Enablemcnt are used toproduce a partial textual structure on the left side ofFig.3.
Otherwise, when an Infornmtive mode and aShort time setting are required, the system selects anintentional operator with a rhetorical operator to fulfilits initial goal as shown on the right side of Fig.
3.
Thisis a simplificd presentation f informing material aboutthe prodttcts.The output for the hybrid phmner is a singlestructure tree, with speech acts associated with each ofthe terminal nodes.
The termiual nodes specify propo-sitions discharging those speech acts.
This inlbr,nationis chosen st) that, with minor supplementation, it issufficient o specify sentences to be generated by afunctional grallllllar (see Fig.
4)During the process of developing the hybridphuining protolype, we have found that it possesses thefollowing adwlniage.
I leuristic strategies can be imple-lnlbml(Volitional Result)~lntentional/Volitional Result operators/ 2 Inform(Elaboration) I!
I / / ..--.
El Ibo itionRhetorical 3 hfform(l~labc, r;l l ion)opora \ [o rs  "4"" x x \]i"~F,\]aboration4 5:2.
\[I IlI bml)(agcnt,clienl,and(agent is pleased, present(agent,agent isplcascd)))l,* I,PA is pleased3.
\[ \[ \[ \[l',In b(agcnl,clicnt,and(anncmlmc(agcrd,wir@.
:,w series)bcl(clicnt,window_scrics))) I,* \[O allllOtlllCe ils lies,,, ~,Villdn,,vs series,4.
\[l\[\[bmb(agent,client,and(inform ol)jecl(agcnt,lnachin?
386 /486),hal(client,machine 386 / 486)))1,* a rnnge of software tools for 386 :rod 486 machines5.\[I;inb(agcnl,clierd,ai~d(in/iwrn_attribute(agcnl,windows_3 in c hancedj'n~le),bcl(clicrd,windows 3 in enhanccd_mc, dc)))\]llllllll,* running 'Windows 3.0 in Enh'lnced Mode.Fig.
4: A smnplc partial OUtlmt ree337mented within a non-linear hierarchical p anning pro-cedure and multi-knowledge r sources can be em-ployed selectively at each level of abstraction.
Its top-down hierarchical expansion process provides an ef-ficient non-linear planning mechanism.
Its heuristicstrategy flexibly chooses not to expend all of the effortneeded to employ various resources unless it is abso-lutely necessary.4.
ConclusionThis paper has presented a hybrid approach tothe planning of textual structm'es.
It is based on theidea that a variety of explicit knowledge resources andplanning mechanisms are needed for an efficient butflexible text planner.
By describing a hybrid planningprototype, it identifies various knowledge resourcesrequired in the domain of business letters.
It suggestsassociated planning techniques for manipulating in-tentional and rhetorical information.
Since tile re-search is still in progress, this paper cannot claim tohave identified all the necessary knowledge resourcesand requisite planning mechanisms.
Consequently,certain problems, such as how to evaluate wniousplanning critics in detail, remain unsolved.
The nextstage of the research isto capture richer knowledge inthe domain and further develop tile critic modules andtheir controlling mechanisms.
Nevertheless we feelthat the system as it stands represents a linguisticallymotivated and coherent computational rchitecturefor the generation of text.
The generated text is,moreover, hetorically compelling given the intention'flgoals of the originator.ReferencesAllen, J.
1987.
Natural Language Understanding, TheBenjamin/Cummings Publishing Company, Inc..Carletta, J.
1992.
Risk-taking and Recovery in Task-OH-ented Dialogue, PhD thesis, University of EdintmrghCohen, P. R. and Levesque, H. 1985.
Speech "lets andnationality, hz Proceedings oftile 23rd Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics.Hovy, E. H. 1988.
Planning coherent multisententinl text.hi Proceedings ofthe twenty-sixth Annual Meeting o\['lheAssociation for Computational I.inguistics, State Univer-sity of New York, Buffalo, New York.Ho W, E. H. 1990.
Unsolved issues in paragraph phuming.hi R. Dale, C. Mollish and M. Zock Eds., Current Researchin Natural Language Generation.
Academic Press Lim-ited, London.Hovy, E.H. 1991.
Approach to tile planning of coherenttext.
ht C.L.
Paris, W.R. Swartout and W.C. Mann Eds.,Natural Language Generation in Artificial Intelligenceand Computational Linguistics.
Kluwer Academic Pub-lishers, USA.Hovy, E., Lavld, J., Maier, E., Mittal, V. and Paris, C. 1992.Employing knowledge r sources ina new text planner archi-tecture.
In R. Dale, F,.
llovy, D. Rosner and O.
Stock Eds.,Aspects of Autmnated Natural Language Generation.Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg.Mann, W.C. 1987.
Text Generation: the Problem of TextSmlcture.
Technical Report No.
RS-87-181, ugc/in\[brma-lion Science Institute, Marina Del Rey, CA.Mann, W. C., Matthiessen, C. and Thompson, S. A.
1989.P, hetoricaI Structure Theory for text analysis, USC/lnforma-lion Sciences Institute, Technical Report ISI/RR-89-242.McKeown, K. R. 1985.
Text Generation : Using DiscourseStJwtegies and Focus Constraintx oGenerate Natur_al Lzm-guage Text.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, Eng-land.McKeown, K. R; Elhadad, M.; Fukmnoto, Y.; Lira, J.;Immbardi, C.; Robin, J. and Smaadja, F. 1990.
Naturallanguage generation i COMET.
In R. Dale; c. Mellish andM.
Zock Eds., Current Research in Natural Ixmguage Gen-eration.
Academic Press Limited, LondonMoore, J. I).
1989.
A reactive approach to explanation iexpert ancl advice giving systems.
PhD.
dissertation, Univer-sity of California, Los Angeles, CA.IVloore, J .D.
and Paris, C.I_ 1988.
Constructing coherent textusing rhetorical relations.
In Proceedings of tile NationalConference oil Artificial Intelligence, Moston, MA.Saeerdoti, E D. 1977.
A Structure Ibr Plans and Behaviours.New York: North l lolland,Suthers, D. S. 1991.
A task-appropriate hybrid architecturefor explanation.
Comput:ttional Intelligence, 7(4).338
