BLENDING SEGMENTATION WITH TAGGINGIN CHINESE LANGUAGE CORPUS PROCESSING ~Zhou Qiang, Yu ShiwenInstitute of Computation LinguisticsPeking UnivErsity, Beijing 100871, P.R.ChinaABSTRACTthis paper proposes a new method for Chineselanguage corpus processing.
Unlike the past researches,our approach as following charactericstics : it blendssegmentation with tagging and integrates nile-basedapproach with statistics-bascd one in grammatical dis-ambiguation.
The principal ideas presented in the paperare incorporated in the development of a Chinese corpusprocessing system.
Expcrimcntal results prove that theoverall accuracy for segmentation is 97.68% and thatfor tagging is 94.55% in about 400,000 Chinesecharacters.1.
In t roduct ionProcessing a Mandarin Chinese corpus needs to gothrough several stages.
From initial text corpus,through word segmentating, grammatic categorytagging, syntactic analysis (bracketing), semantic andpragmatic analysis, one can get coq3ora with differenttags, such as segment-ational t gs, word categories,phrase categories and so on.
In current paper, we willfbcus on the first two stages, i.e.
word segmentationand category (i.e.
part of speech) tagging.Word segmentation is essential in Chineseilfformation processing because there are no obviousdelimiting markers betwecn Chinese words except forsome punctuation marks.
Matching input charactersagainst the lexical entries in a large dictionary ishelpful in identifying the embedded words.
Howeversome ambiguous segmentation strings(ASSs) andunregistered words (i.e.
the word that is not registeredin the dictionary) in the text will lower thesegmentation accuracy.
To resolve these problems,various knowledge sources might have to be consulted.In the past decade, two different mcthodologics wereused for word segmentation: some approaches are rule-based(ll--5\]), while others are statistics-based(16--8\]).Many automatic word segmentation systems adoptingthe above models have been developed and significantresults have been achieved.
But these systems weredeveloped only on word level.
They did not take large-scale corpus category tagging into account and wereshort of a objective cvaluaton for segmentation accuracyfrom category level.
So the development of theseautomatic segmentation systems i  restricted.Grammatical catcgory tagging for Chinese languageis very difficult, because Chinese words are frequentlyambiguous.
One ChinEse word can represent lexicalitems of different categories.
Apart from this, unlikeEnglish and other Indo-European languages, Chinesehas no inflexions and therefore there arc not obviousmorphological variations in Chinese text which arehelpful to distinguish one grammatic ategory fromothers.In some Chinese category tagging systems, statistics-based algorithms were used(\[10--12\]).
The basicprocessing procedure of these systems i : First, a taggedcorpus was made through editing.
Then, a dictionarycontaining category tagging entries and a matrix ofcategory collocational probabilities were derived fromthe tagged corpus.
Using these arguments, a probabilitymodel was built and category tagging was completedautomatically.
Up to now, there are not any reportsabout rule-based approach to Chinese language categorytagging.Comparing with the above researches onsegmentation a d tagging, our method has the followingnew characteristics:First, it blends egmentation with tagging.
We use asegmentation dictionary, in which every word is markedwith its word category, to complete segmentation andinitial tagging simultaneously.
The category becomes abridge linking segmentation a d tagging.Second, it integrates nde-based approach withstatistics-based approach in category tagging.
Thereforeit inherits the advantages of the two approaches andovercome their respective disadvantages.The following sections will 5iscuss this method indetail.i The project is support by National Science Fundation of China12742.
Corpus processing blending segmentationwith taggingIn practice of segmenting many Chinese sentences, weffi}d that it is helpfid to make use of word category inautomatic segmentation processing.
In general, there arethree advantages:1).
Using category collocational relation of differcntwords in ASSs and the contextnal word categories, one canresolve most segmentation ambiguities.As we know, there are two types of ASS : intersectingASS (IASS) and combining ASS(CASS).An lASS S=ABC has two possible segment-ation :AB+C and A+BC.
Thus it results in two categorycombinations : CaB + Cc and CA + CBC.
But the probilityfor them to appear in a given context is not the same.Depending on their context and the difference betweentwo category collocational probabilities (P(CM~\]Cc) andP(CA\]Cnc) , we can select a correct segmcntatim,.Sometimes a CASS S=AB can be segmented into twowords: A+B, but occasionally it is only one word S. Sincethe CASS itself can not provide the special informationR~r correct segmentation, it is necessmy to lake the relationbetween it and its fonvard word or its backward word intoconsideration.
In this sense, the categories of the words inthe CASS and those one beside tim CASS play a veryimportant role.2).
llelp to compound new words by using Clfincscword-lbrmation theoryIn Chinese, a word is composed of morplmmes.
Thecombination of morphemes has its special rt, les.
Theserifles tell us which and what kind of morphcmes can becombined into a word.
Using these roles, we can find outsome tmrcgistercd words and segment them correctly fi'oma sentence.
For example, typical word-compovnding casesof nouns are :A).
mono-syllablie noun + mono-syllablic nounma(horsc) + che(car) -->mache(carriage)B).
mono-syllablie noun + bi-syllablie nounshou(hand) + zhijia(nail) -->shouzhijia(finger nail)C).
bi-syllablic noun + mono-syllablic noundianliu(current) + biao(lable) -->diaoliubiao(galvanometer)D).
bi-syllablic verb + mono-syllablic nounzhengming(prove) + xin(letter) -->zhengmingxin(testimonial)From such word-compounding cases, we can sum upmany nsefifl word lbrmation rules that are based oncategoly combination.
Therefore, we will achieve a bettersegmentation effect in spite of using a smallersegmcntation dictionary.3).
Be helpful to discover some segmentation crrorsIn Chinese sentence, the frequency of some categmycollocations i very low, such as d+n+$, v+u+d+$ and soon, where d is advclb, n is noun, v is verb, u is auxiliary, $is the ending mark of a sentence.
Therefore, if there issuch a category combination in the segmented sentence,we will ahnost be certain that this segmentation may bewrong, in the following examples, there are such Errors :i).
mailv le/u yitou/d niu/n ./w(btty -ed head cowcorrect result :bought a cow )it).
ta/r qiu/n da/v de/u zuihao/d ./w(he ball play Prt hadbettercorrect result : lie plays basketball best.
)liore, we can see that the categmy information providesa t)owerful means to check seg,ncntation errorsatttomatically.Based on all the above understandings, we proposed amethod combining segmentation with tagging and used itin the practice of segmentation a d category tagging on alarge-scale Chinese language corpus.
The basic processingprocedures are :First, complete automatic segmentation by using asegmentation dictionary with word categories.
On themeantime, assign an initial tag(all possible categories fora word) to every segmentation u it.Second, cart3' out seine basic word-compounding words,such as combining stems with affixes , combiningoverlapping morphemes, integrating Clfinesc numberalwords and so on.Third, implement automatic ategory tagging throughgrammatic atcgmy disambiguation and assign a singlecategory tag to every word.Fourth, find and coinbinc unregistered words whichaccord with Chinese word formation rules and assign asuitable categmy to t11e combined new words.Fiflh, check the catcgmy combination in segmentedsentences, find some possible errors and then go back tothe segmentation process.3.
The  des ign ing  s t rategy of  categm T taggingComparing with many past automatic atcgmy taggingsystems(t10--12\]), our current processing has some newproperties.
The basic idea can be briefly summarized asfollowing:l).
13e based on a dictionary with word categories1275In current process, the initial category tagging was madeby looking up the segmentation dictionary with wordcategories during segmentation.
The category is derivcdfrom the "Grammar Knowledge Base for Chinese Words"(GKBCW), which has been developed by the Institute ofComputational Linguistics of Peking University in the pastfive years\[13\].
Since the information i the dictionary wasprovided by linguists who refer themselves tothe standardof classification based on the distribution of grammaticalfunctions\[14\], it is of high accuracy.
Therefore, applyingthis information to initial category tagging, the coherenceand reliability of the tagging results can be guaranteed.This has laid good foundation for the followingdisambiguation processing.2).
Use a small tag setIn our current system, category tagging is restricted tothe basic categm-y descriptions, i.e.
26 categories.Meanwhile, in order to keep the new information that wasfound during manually proofreading, such as propernames, proper addresses, and so on, we add up severalsubcategories: ng(proper noun), ngp(,proper noun for aperson), and Ng(noun morpheme), Ag (adjectivemorpheme) and Vg(verb morpheme).
All these categoriesand subcategories form a tag set of 31 tags.A small tag set can help us concentrate on theambiguous words that appear the most frequently in asentence.
Therefore, the processing complex can bereduced and tagging accuracy will be improved.3).
Form a stereo knowledeg base by combining taggedrcsults with the information in the dictionaryAlthough our tag set is small, we can easily expand thetag set for the different application by linking with theGKBCW.
Because in our GKBCW, each category hasmany features, which were proposed by liguists.
Thesefcaturos help to describe the grammatic functions anddistributions of every category completely.
For example,verb category has about fm-ty features, and noun categoryhas twenty-five features(\[13\]).
In general, thesegrammatic features are also one kind of information forclassification.If we use the word and its basic category in taggedcorpus as a keDvord to look up GKBCW, we can get thedetailed grammatic features of each word.
Therefore,taking all tagged words as a plane, and the grammaticfeatures of every word as a depth, we will give a stereoknowledge base.
According to different needs, we can tagdifferent grammatic ategories or subcategorics to thewords in corpus by using the grammatic features inknowledge base.
In addition, using the stereo knowledgebase, we can also analyse the phrase structure of sentencein corpus.4).
Integrate rule-based approach with statistics-basedapproach in disambiguationBecause rule-based approach and statistics-basedapproach have their respective advantages, we tried tointegrate them in our category tagging system.
Our methodis: First, through statistical analysis (manually orautomatically) in a large-scale corpus, find the tile mostfrequent ambiguous phenomena, study their context, andextract some contextual frame rules to eliminate thosemost frequently appearing and comparatively simplerambiguities.
Then, using the arguments trained bycorrectly tagged corpus, make a probability model todisambiguate some ambiguous category combination oflower frequence and deduce the category of theunregistered words.But during actually processing, we lay different particularemphasis on these two approaches at different stages.
Atfirst, because there was not a large-scale corpus taggedwith correct category, a small-scale corpus had to betagged using rule-bascd approach and its remainingambiguities and some tagging errors were correctedmanually.
After statistic analysis on the correctly taggedcorpus, the rule base was adjusted and some trainedarguments were given.
Then some new sentences wereadded to the old corpus to form a new middle-scale corpus,Using the new adjusted rules and trained arguments, thenew corpus was tagged through both rule-based approachand statistics-based approach.
In this way, the scale of thecorpus was increased gradually like a snowball.
Due to theincrease in corpus scale, the descriptions of rule becamemore and more accurate and the statistic informationbecame more and more comprehensive.
Therefore thcmanual proofreading work will decrease drastically.
As aresult, a best integration of these two approaches wasachieved.4.
Disambiguation in automatic categoo'tagging4.1.
rule-based approachTile basic strategy of rule-based approach is to determineone category for a categorically ambiguous word based onits syntatic or semantic ontext.
In our system, in order tohightcn the tagging effect, the task is divided into thrcestages:1).
disalnbiguato against special wordIn Chinese running text, some multi-tag words appearfrequently, especially the mono-syllablic words, such as,"yi", "zhe", "le", "guo", "ba", "lai", "hao", "jiu", and so on.For these words, we set some special disambiguation rules,which describe the different context for these words withdifferent category.
Therefore, t/to category of words in onesentence can be determinated easily.
This is a word-oriented isambiguation.2).
disambiguation against special multi-tag7276According to statistic analysis, some nmlti-tagcombinations, uch as v-q, p-v,v-n,q-n,v-d,a-v and so on,appear li'cquently in corpus, lit order to construct hedisambiguation rides for these multi-tag combinations, theprobability that one special tag is selected from a multi-tag set in the difI~rent context is counted.
At the sametime, the grammatic function featnres of category,especially the distribution i foramtion which distinguishesone category from the oflmrs are snnlmed till andextracted.
Then the ambiguities can be eliminated by theserifles.
This is a multitag-oriented disambiguation.3).
disambiguate bycontext constraintThe approach applies a set of context flame rules.
Eachrtfle, when its context is satisfied, has the effect of deletingone or more candidates from the list of possible lags forone word.
if the nmnber of the candidalcs is reduced toone, disambiguation is considered successful.
This is afiame-oriented disambiguation.4.2.
statistics-based al JproachFormally, the statistic schcme can be described asfollowing:Let W=Wb..Wn be a span of ambiguous words inscntence and Wl,W n are unanlbiguous, C--Ct...Cn be apossible tag sequence for the span, where Ci is a categoryof Wi.
P(CIW) is conditional probabilily fiom W to C.Therefore, the goal of disambiguation is equivalent to linda list of category sequence C' with the largest scoreP(C'lW), i.e.P(C'lW)=,nax P(CIW)C'GCComputing tile above fornmla with bi-g,'am model, wegct:I1P(ClW),= 11~ P2(C~ IC~.~ ) p(w~ IC~)where P(Ci ICiq) are the contextual probabilities andP(W i ICi) are the lexical probabilitics.
The approximationof two probablities can be calculated from the trainedargmnents.During actual process, the category of the unregisteredword is deduced firstly.
Let Cu is a possible tag set forunregistered word, CI is the tag of its left word and the Cris the tag of its right word.
q' is the set of total tags incorpus.
Therefore, Cu={CI, C2}, where :C1 = argmax P(Ci \]Cl )Ci GTC2 = argmax P(Cr \]Cj )cj ~'l'So the unregistered word phenomenon is changed intocategorically ambiguous problem.For a span of ambiguous words (bounded bytmambiguous words), if we arrange the diffcrent ags ofcvcry word vertically and the different words horizontally,we will form a direct chart whose nodes are tagged withP(Wi ICi ) and whose arcs are tagged with P(Ci ICj ).
UsingVOLSUNGA algorithm (\[9\]) to get the best path in directchart, we will complete the automatic categorydisambiguation.5.
Exper imenta l  results  and  fu ture  workA segmentation a d tagging system was built based onthe above mentioned.
The programs of the system arewritten by C language.
Using this system, a verb usagecorpus with abont 400,000 Chinese characters or 300,000Chinese words was segmented and tagged.
The test resultsare: segmentation accuracy --- 97.68%, lagging accuracy --- 94.55%.Some better processing results of previous egmentationsystems and tagging systcrms are : about 99'%segmentation acctu'acy on 150,000 Chinese characters(\[5\[) and 94.82% tagging accuracy by close test on150,000 words of taggcd corpus (\[121).
Compared withthese systems, the result of our system is promising.I11 our future research, we try to make filrtherimprovement on our method and add some now fimtionsto our seglnentation and tagging system, such as,unregistered word deduce during segmentation, identitymanagement i  knowledl,e base, analysis belief degree ontagging results.
Then we will extend our corpus' scale toabout five milliou words.In addition, we will pcrst,e research on Chinese phrasestructure analysis and try to tag phrase category in corpus.We hope the work will be l~elpful for the study onMandarin Chinese grammar.References11\], Liang N.Y., (1987).
An Autonmtic WordScglnentatiou System of Written Chinesc---CDWS../ow'nal of Chinese lrybrmation lS'ocessing (,\]CIP), V o\[2.12J.
Li G.C., Liu K.Y.
& Zhang Y.K.
, (1988)=Segmenting Chinese Word and Processing DifferentMeaning st,-uctures.
JCIP, Vol 3.131. iIuang Y.X., (1989).
A 'Produce-Test' Approach toAutonmtic Segmentation f Written Chinese.
JC7P, Vol4~141.
Yao T.S.
, Zlmng G.P.
& Wu Y., (1990).
A Rule-Based Chinese Word Segmentation System.
JC1P,YgL!,\[51. tie K.K.
, Xu 1I.
& Suu B. , (1991).
The Implementof Automatic Segmentation Expert System of WrittenClfinese.
JCIP, Vol 3.1277\[6\].
Li B.Y.
& i.e.
, (1992).
A MM AutomaticSegmentation Algorithm using Corpus tag toDisambiguation.
Proc ofROCLING IV, P14%165.\[7\].
Zhang J.S.
,Chen Z.D.
, Shen S.D.
, (1992).
Amethod of word identification for Chinese by ConstraintSatisfaction and Statistical Optimization Techniques.Proc.
of ROCLING IV, P147-165.\[8\].
Sun M.S., Lai T.B.Y., Lun S.C. & Sun C.F., (1992).Some Issues on the Statistical Approach to Chinese WordIdentification.
1CCIP 92, Vol 1, P246-253\[9\].
Stevcn J. DcRose, (1989).
Grammatical categoo,disambiguation by statistical Optimization.
ComputionalLinguistics, Vol 14, P31-39\[10\].
Liu K.Y., Zhen J.H.
& Zhao J., (1992).
A Researchon Several Algorithms for the Assignment Parts of Speechto Words in Corpus.
Advances on Research of MachineTranslation, P378-386.\[11\].
Bai S.H, , Xia Y.
& Huang C.N.
, (1992).
TheMethordic Research of Grammatical tagging ChinesCorpus.
Advances on Research of Machine Translation,P408-418\[12\].
Bai Shuanhu & Xia Ying, (1991).
A Scheme ForTagging Chinese Runing Text.
NLI'RS'91, P345-349\[13\].
Yu S.W,, Zhu X.F,, Guo L., (1992).
Outline of theGrammar Knowledge Base for Chinese Words and itsDeveloping Approachs.
ICCIP92, P186-191\[14\].
Zhu Dexi , (1979).
Xufa Jianxi (Lectures ofGrammar).
Business Press.1278
