A CD-ROM Retrieval System with Multiple Dialogue AgentsKe i i ch i  Sakai, Tsuyoshi Yagisawa, and Minoru FujitaCanon Inc.,  Media.
Techno logy  Laboratory890-12 Kash imMa,  Saiwai -ku,  I (awasak i ,  211, Japan{ke i i ch i ,  yag428 ,rainoru}?cis.
canon, co. jpAbstractIn this paper, we proposed a new diMogue systemwith multiple dialogue agents.
In our new system,three types of agents: a) domain agents, b) strat-egy agents, and c) context agents were realized.They give the follmving advantages to the user:?
the domain age.nts make the user aware of theboundary between the domains.?
the strategy agents make the user aware ofthe difference between the strategies.?
the context agents help the user to deal withmultiple goals.We expect that the complex behaviors of the sys-tem will become more visible to the user in dif-ferent situations.
The experimental results showthat the user can retrieve effectively and obtainthe expected goals easily by using these multipleagents.1 I n t roduct ionRecently, research into 'multi-agent systenF is in-creasing.
The multi-agent systeln is now one ofthe promising solutions to achieve a complicatedsystem (Maes, 91; Nishida and Takada, 93; Nagaoaud Takeuchi, 94).The multi-agent system which silnulates co-operation between qmman-agents' i  realized byan integration of simplified autonomous flmctions.And ms a result it achieves a complicated systemin total.
It also has a latent potential to make avery flexible system.Thus, we believe that if we introduce the con-cept of the nmlti-agent system into a dialogue sys-tem, we are able to construct a more sophisticatedsystem which is able to treat various linguisticphenomena nd to understand or to solw., nmrecmnplicated problems.Focusing on dialogue systelns, while most cur-rent dialogue systems can treat only one domain(a small world for a single service), some re-search(Goddeau et al, 94; Nalnba et 31., 94) whichaims at increasing the domains, what is called atransportable system(Grosz, 83; Paris, 89) arelmW on-going.
Ill such systems, information re.-trieval across multil)le domains is realized usingthe relational databases.
However in our systeln,it is difficult to retrieve information across nmlti-pie donlains, I)ecause the information is retrievedfrom CD-ROMs in which a large amount of textsare contained, 1)y using full-text retrieval tech-niques.And while there are robust and useful strategiesin certain goals, there isn't an all-powerful sterat-egy which covers all goals.
If a robust strategy ina certain goal is introduced into tile system, theuser misunderstands that the system hKs an all-powerful strategy.
Thus, in our system the usersometimes gets into trouble as follows:?
the user misunderstands that the informationcontained across several data sources call beobtained at once.?
the user is confused between a certain re-trieval strategy which is robust in a certaingoal and another siml)le but rather redmldantstrategy.Furthernmre, it is difficult to manage a dis-course involving multiple goals in current diMoguesystems.
This is because most current systemsaren't robust enough for anaphora nd they areable to manage only a single and simple context.This sometimes causes the following problem:?
the user has to manage the nmltiple contextsinvolving multiple goals, because the systemonly ma.nages a single context.
And ithismakes it hard for the user to use the system.As the result, the user also gets lost in the system.In this paper, we focus on how to make theuser aware of what the system Call or cannot do.Thus, we propose a nev?
dialogue system with mul-tiple agents, in which we introduce the concept ofmulti-agent system into our dialogue system.
Illour system, three types of dialogue agents are re~alized: 1) for each domain, 2) for each strategyand 3) for each context.
These agents take turnsand play their roles according to the discourse sit-uations.
With these agents, our system will haw;the following characteristics:?
the domain agents mM~e the user aware of the1)oundary between unintegrated domains.?
the strategy agents make the user aware ofthe difference, between the don lain orientedstrategies.400?
the context agents make it ea.sy for the user todeal with tit(; coml)licatcd iscourse involvingmultiple goals.In this pal)er, we first Cxl)lain our l)aseline spo-ken dialogue systeln TARSAN which deM withmultiple domains.
Secondly, we describe the prob-lems which arise when wc extend the system intomultiple domains.
After that, we propose a newdialogue systeln with nmltiple diMogue agents.We ,also describe the results of the examinationson the l)rOl)OSC(l system.
Finally, we conclude thepal)cr.2 The base l ine  sys tem:  TARSANWe have been constructing a spoken diah)guesystem which retrieves inforlnatlon froln a largeanlount of texts contained ill CD-ROMs, namedTARSAN(Sakai et al, 94; Sakai et al, 95).
Fig-ure 1 shows the contiguration of the baseline sysotern TARSAN for multiple domains.
(,o,.,,,'oo \] t /(uttoranct, pair~ ~triova~( cordrollor ) L_  makor _ JFigure 1: The configuration of TARSAN ft." mul-tiple domainsTARSAN retrieves the information using thefolh)wing processes:1.
Tile inlmt analyzer analyzes the result of thespeech recognition or the sentence re(:eivedfrOlll keyboard.2.
The intention extractor extracts the user'sintcntion (i.e.
question, answer, (:ondition(:hange, and so on) 1)ased on the analysis ofthe modality.3.
The uttera.nce l)air controller deals with notonly a silnl)le pair of QA I)ut also deals withtollow-u 1) questions bused on utteran(:e lmircontrolling.4.
The retrieval (:ondition maker makes retrievalconditions which is sent to the fnll text re-trieval 1)rocess by.
the dialogue controller de.-scribed below.
The retrieval conditions arecreated 1)y refl'xring the 'text-models', whichdefine the relation betwcell the inlmt wordsand the retrieval conditions.5.
The 1)araphr~user t anslates various CXl)res-sions of the inputs into a single donlain ori-ented con(:el)t.6.
The diah)gue controller dctcrlnines the sys-tem's l)ehavior (to retrieve and to answer theresult, or to request lnorc rctricvM conditionsto the user) by referring the retrieval condi-tions and the diMogue strategy.7.
The outlmt generator generates the outputsentence, to be announ(:ed by the text-to-speech 1)rocess and the information to be dis-1)layed on the monitor.Our current system TARSAN is able to accessthe folh)wing four CD-ROMs:CD-ROMI :  sight-seeing infl)rmation in Japan(i.e.
name, locat.ion, explanation, and so onof temples, hot springs, golf courses, and soon)(Kosaido, 90).CD-ROM2:  hotel inforlnation in Japan (i.e.name, telel)hone number, room charges,equip,nent, and so on)(JTB, 92).CD-ROM3:  Japanese and foreign cinema infor-mation(i.e, tith', cast, director, story, and so,,n)(PIA, 90).CD-ROM4:  Jalmnese professional base-ball player information(i.e, name, belongingteam, records, and so on)(NMfigai, 90).TARSAN treats cD-ROM1 and 2 as a singletravel domain, CD-R,OM3 as a cinema domain,and CD-ROM4 as a baseball domain.3 P roMemsAs we described ill the introduction, we have ad-dressed three main l)robh'ms ill our (liMogue.
sys-tenl.
Two problmns derive froln the e?tension ofthe system to multil)h', domains.
And the last Ollederives from the single path contextual manage-lllellt,1.
The first problem is that the user nfisunder-stands that the information contained acrossseveral data sources call be obtaincd by a silt-gle input sentence.
The fl)llowing are exam-1)les of requests ac(:ross domains: The first e.x-ample is contained in the cinema (lomain andin the travel domain, and the second exam-l)le is contailmd ill the b~Lseball dolnmn andin the cinema domain.l'\]xamph~ l: " tStm, ag,..ch, i MoTnoe.
ga .sh..uen s i ta  cigano b'utai "hi nat ta  onacv, wo  ,shir itai .
"(i want to know tim hot sl)ring which is th(~ sceneof the cinema whose s|,ar is Ymnaguchi Momoe.
)Example 2: "Puro yakyu.u acn.shu dat~.a haiywlt flaah'u,t,vu, en sita eiga wo o,shiete.
"(Tell m(" the cilteln;t whore ;nl actor who was aprofestdonM 1)~usel)all player performs.
)401Figure 2: Three types of agents2.
The second problem is that the user nfisun-derstands that the system h~ an Ml-powcrfifistrategy, if it has a robust strategy for a cer-tain purpose.
Suppose that several discoursestrategies exist in a single dialogue agent:one is a very sophisticated but very goal spe-cific strategy which allows the user to reachthe goal immediately, and another is a verysimple but redundant strategy which has theability to achieve any kind of goal.
In thiscase, the user may conflme the potential ofthese strategies and feel uncomfortable aboutthe gap.3.
The last problem is that the user has to man-age multiple contexts concerning to multiplegoals, because the system isn't enough ro-bust for anaphora and only manages a sin-gle context.
And this makes it hard for theuser to use the sys tem.
Table 1 is an exam-ple that the user compares the informationbetween Hakone and Nikko 1.
The exampleshows that the user ha.s managed the contexthimself, which seems very complicated.We have ,also assmncd that these three problemsarise because the system only has a single diMogueagent.
A single dialogue agent usually deals witheverything and this makes the user invisible whatthe system can or cannot do.
Thus, we propose anew diMogue system with multiple agents whichmake the system's ability more visible to the user.4 Dialogue system with multipledialogue agentsIn this section, we introduce a new dialogue sys-tem with multiple, dialogue agents.
The purposeis to make the user aware of what the system canor cannot do.
In our system, three types of di-alogue agents are realized: 1) for each donaain,2) for each strategy and 3) for the each context.Here, we call these agents as 1) domain agents, 2)strategy agents, 3) context agents, respectively.Figure 2 shows a brief sketch of these three typesof agents.
These agents take turns and play their1 They are famous sight-seeing places in Japan.Table 1: An example that the user manage themultil)le-goals by oneself'usrl: Hakonc ni aru onscn wo oshiete.
(Tell me the hot springs in Hakone Town.
)sysl: 16 ken arimasu.
(There are 16 hot springs.
)usr2: Nikko deha.
(How about in Nikko?
)sys2: Chuuzenj i  onsen, Nikko yumoto onsen gaarimasu.
(There are Chuuzenji onsen and Nikko yumotoonsen.
)usr3: Hakone niha j i in  ga arimasuka.
(Are there any temples in Hakone?
)sys3: Amida dera, Kuduryu Myoj in,  Saunj i  nado 7ken arimasu.
(There are 7 temples; Amida dera, KuduryuMyojin, Saunji, and so on.
)usr4: Nikko niha.
(How about in Nikko?
)sys4: Nikko Toshoguu ga arimasu.
(There is Nikko Toshoguu.
)usr5: Sono setsumci wo kikitai.
(Please explain it.
)sys5: Tokugawa Ieyasu no rei wo matsuru .
.
.
.
(The soul of Tokugawa Ieyasu is worshipped....)roles according to the discourse situations.
Thedetails of these agents are as follows.4.1 The  domain  agentsTo solve the first problem, we realized domainagents which perform information retrieval i l eachdifferent domain.
Figure 3 shows a brief sketchof the domain agents.
The domain agents per-form the basic interaction between the user andthe system to retrieve the information in the ba-sic manner specific to each domain.
In every do-main agent, indispensable and basic conditionsfor information rctrievM are defined.
Using theseconditions, the domain agent communicates withthe user and performs the information retrievM.And when the user's input 1-noves from one do-main to another domain, the domain agent willalso change.
Thus with the domain agents, theuser is made aware of the boundary between thedomains.
We expect this mechanisnl to preventthe user from asking the question across uninte-402UserAgentsFigure 3: The donmin agents/UserAgentsFigure 4: The strategy agentsTable 2: An examl)le of two agents try to makean actionllsr:C.agt:T.agt:" Yamnguchi Momoc ga shuen ,sita ciga nobutai ni natta onsen we ~qhiritai.
"(I want to know the hot spring wlfich is thescene of the cinema whose mmn (:rest is Ya-maguchi Mom<)e. )"Izu no odoriko, Shunkinsho, nado 13 kenarimasu.
"(There are 13 cinemas: Izu no Odoriko,Slmnkinsho, and so on)" Joukcn ni gaitou,~uru onscn ha arima.~en.
"(There is no hot spring satisfying thecondition.
)grated multiple domains.
For exmnl)le, in the caseof the example 1 in section 3, two agents dealingwith the <:inema domain and the travel domain tryto make each action as Table 2 shows 2.
Thus the,user will be aware of the boundary between thetwo domains.4.2 The strategy agentsTo solve the second probleln, we reMized the strat-egy agents which 1)crforins informatioll retrievalaccording to each specific strategy for the infor-mation retrieval.
Figure 4 shows a brief sketch ofthe strategy agents.
The strategy agents handlethe interaction between the user and the systemto retrieve the information in the manner specificto each task.
In every strategy agent, task spe-cific conditions for tim information retriewd aredefined.
Using the task specifc conditions, thestrategy agent is al)le to use the default conditionspecific to the task and is able to give advice ort<> give choices to the user.
Thus with the strat-egy agents, the user is made aware of the strategywhich is specific to the task an<l this mechanismprcvcnts the user using the task specific strategyfor other tasks.In the current system, there are two strategyagents for the travel dmnain:2Travel agent is able to retrive and find "the hotspring which is the scene of Izu no odoriko".business tr ip s t ra tegy  agent:  indispensablec<mdition for the inlmt is the destination, andthe optional con<liti<)ns are the room chargeand the circumstances.
When the optionalcon<litions arc not defined by the user, thestrategy agent will rex:olmncnd some choicesto the user.
The default responses arc thename of the hotel and its telephone numberin this task.recreat ion  s t ra tegy  agent:  indisl)ensablc on-dition for the input is the recreation equip-ment and the number of participants andthe other conditions are optional.
When theoptional conditions are not defined by theuser, the strategy agent will recommend somechoices to the user.
The default responses arealso the name of the hotel and its telephonelmnJ)er in this task.These strategy agents not Olfly allow the userto use the system easily 1)ut ~dso hell> the userto 1)e aware of the <:haraeteristies of the diah)guestrategy specific to the task.Table 3 ct)mpares the difference between usingthe domain agent for travel and the business tripstrategy agent.
As you can see from the table,more frielldly discourse is achieved when using thestrategy agent.4.3 The context  agentsTo solve the last l)rol)lem, we realized the contextagents which perform the information retrieval dc-lmndent ill different contexts.
The context agentis defined when the user n mves from one contextto another.
Figure 5 shows a brief sketch of thecontext agents.
Using the context agents the usercan easily compare the re, sults relating to lnultiplcgoals.Table 4 is the dialogue which aims at the samegoal ~us table \] by using multil)le contex:t agents.As you can see from the table 1 and 4, more sim-1)lified discourse: is achieved when using contextagents.403Table 3: The comparison between the discourseusing the domain agent and the strategy agentdomain agent for travelagt0: Hal, Ryokou eejent desu.
(Hello, I'm travel agent.
)usrl: Toitori ahi no hoteru wo shiritai.
(I want to know the hotels in Tottori city.
)agtl: 34 ken arimaau.
(34 rows exist.
)usr2: Ekimae ni aru hoteru.
(Land cireulnstatlee is neat' the station.
)agt2 :8  ken arimasu.
(8 rows exist.
)usr3: shukuhaku ryou ga 8000yen ika deha.
(And room charge is under 8000yen.
)agt3: Hoka no jouken "Ricehi jouken ga ekimae"wo nokoshi masulca.
(Do you keep another condtion, "Land cir-emnstanee is near the station"?
)usr4: Hal.
(Yes.
)agt4: AAA h, oteru, hoteru BBB desu.
(AAA hotel and hotel BBB exist.
)usr5: Sono denwabangou wo oshiete.
(Tell me the telephone nmnhers.
)agt5: AAA hoteT~t no dcnwabangou ha XXX-XXXX,  ho~er~ BBB no denwabanou haYYY .
YYYY  dean.
(The telephone numher of AAA hotel isXXX-XXXX, and the one of hotel BBB isYYY-YYYY.
)agt0:usrl:agtl:usr2:agt2:business trip strategy agentHai, Shucchou eejen~o dean.
Dochira nishucchou nasai masu ka.
(Hello, I'm business trip agent.
Where at'eyou goingo to go?
)Tot~ori shi dean.
(Tottori city.
)Riechi joukcn ha ekimae, shukuhaku ryou ha80OOyen ika de yoro.shii des'uka.
(Circumstance is near the station, and roomcharge is under 8000yen.
Are these OK?)Hal.
(Yes.
)2ken arimaau.
AAA hoteru no denwabangouha XXX-XXXX,  hoteru BBB no denwabanouha YYY-  YYYY  desu.
(2 hotels exist.
The telephone number ofAAA hotel is XXX-XXXX, and the one ofhotel BBB is YYY-YYYY.
)5 Examinat ionsIn this section, we described the examinations ofthe prol)osed system.
In order to examine the ef-fectiveness of the multiple dialogue agent system(new system), we compare it with the single dia-logue agent system (old system).
Here the singledialogue agent is the domain agent for the traveldomain.We evaluated the system by counting the nun>ber of the interactions between the user and thesystem (Tnrns), the number of inl)ut charactersof the users (Characters), and session time (Sec-onds) that subjects took to reach the same goalwith new system and the old one.
Eight sul)jectsexamined these systems.
They are all typists, butnovices with diah)gue systems.
They were given abrief explanation of both systems and practiced onthem for about quarter an hour each.
We divideUserAgentsFigure 5: The context agentsTable 4: The dialogue using two context agents(to ttakone agent and Nikko agent)usrl: Onsen wo sMritai.
(I want to know the hot springs.
)H.agtl: 16 ken arimasu.
(There are 16 hot springs.
)N.agtl: Gh.uuzenji onsen, Nikko gumoto onsen gaari?~a3,1l,.
(There are Chuuzenji onsen and Nikko yu-moto onsen.
)(to both agents)usr2: Jiin ha arimas'u, ka(Are there any temples?
)H.agt2: Amida dera, Kuduryu Myojin, Saunji nado7 ken arimaau.
(There are 7 temples; Amida dera,Kudnryu Myojin, Saunji, and so on.
)N.agt2: Nikko Toahoguu 9 a arimaxu.
(There is Nikko Toshoguu.
)(to Nikko agent)usr3: Sono aetaumei wo kil~itai.
(Please explain it.
)N.agt3: Tokugawa Ieyasu no rei wo matsuru .
.
.
.
(The soul of Tokugawa Ieyasu is wor-shipped ....  )tile subjects into two groups.
Group 1 examinednew system first and old one next, and group 2did old system first and new one next.5.1 Examinat ion  1The following goal is given to every subject:Goa l  1: You will go to Kurashiki City on busi-ness.
Find a suitable hotel a.
(You may selectdifferent hotels with each system.
)The relevant agent in the new system is the busi-ness trip agent.
Table 5 shows the results (aver-ages of Turns, Characters, and Seconds) of exam-ination 1.
These results show not only that bothgroups needed less diMogue using new systeln thanusing old system, but also that group 1 needed lessdialogue, especially less session time (360:640),when they used old system than group 2.
ThisaThere are 41 hotels in Kurasldki City.404nmans that the user is Mile to learn how to usethe old (strategy-less) ystenl by using new sys-tem with a typical strategy.
~rc also lnenti}m thatall six subjects who selected different hotels werehappy about the hotel using the new system.Table 5: The results of cxanlination 1Lohl --4 new new ~ old'Tm'ns /;7.3 3.0" 3.5 5.5Characters / 75 18 25 56Seconds \[640 175 190 3605.2 Examinat ion  2The following goal is given to every subject:Goa l  2: You have to sele(:t Kanazawa or Sendaifor sight-seeing.
Colnl)are them using someretrieved inlbrlmtti<)n, and seh'ct one.The relevant agents in the new systeln arcKanazawa agent and Scndai agent.
Tal)le 6 is theresults of examination 2.
These results show aninteresting phenomenon that in the ca.se of the dia-logue comparing multiple goals with these Colnpli-cared processes, the user tends to stop comparingby session time (from five nfinutes to ten minites)in favour of the obtained retrieval results.
Andthc new system is able~ to obtain more ret:riewdresults than thc old system.
Thus the new systemis better than the old system in the case of dealingwith multil)le goals.Table 6: The results of exalnination 2old --* new new ~ oldTurns 7.0 10.3 9.3 8.5Chm'actcrs 79 54 51 96Seconds 442 420 458 5266 Conc lus ionIn this paper, we proposed a new dialogn(' sys-tem with multiph' diah)gue agents.
In our newsystem, three types of agents were realized.
Theywere' a) domain agents, b) stratcgy agents, and e)context agents.
These agents give the fl)lh)wingadvantages to the user:* the domain agcnts prevent the user fi'omasking the questions across unintegrated o-mains.. the strategy agents make the user aware ofthe difference between the domain orientedstrategies.?
the context agents make it e~Lsy for the user todeal with the complicated iscourse inw)lvingmultiple goals.Using these agents, we exl)ect the user to nnder-stand what the system can or eanlmt do.
The ex-perilnental resnlts show that the user can retrieveeffectively and obtain the expected goals easily byusing these multiple agents.AcknowledgementThe, authors wish to thank l)r. Hideyuki Tamura,head of the Me(lift Tcchnology Lab., for giving theol)portunity of this study, Dr. Yasuhiro Komoriand Tom Wachtel for suitable advice in translat-ing this paper into English, and members of theIntelligcl~t Media Div.
for usefifl discussions.ReferencesCdeile L.Paris.
1989.
The Use of Exl)licit UserModcls in a Generation System for Tailor-ing Answers to the User's Level of Exl)crtisc.User Models in Diah)g Systems, l)p.200 pp.232.S1)ringel'-V-erlag , A.Kobsa, \V.\Vahler (t;Ms.).God(lean I)., Brill E., Glass J., Pao C., Phillips M,Polifroni .\]., Sem~tf S., and Zue V. 1994.GAW~A XY: A tlnman-langn;tge Interfitce to On-line Travel Information.
In Proceedinqs ofICSLP-94, S13-11.Grosz B.J.
1983.
A Transl)ortable Natural-Language Interface System.
In Proceedings ofCoT@;rence on Applied Natural Language Pro-ee,~sing, pp.25 pp.30.JTB.
1992.
JTB's Accommodation I formation(Electronic Book YRRS-094).
ed.
by Nakwjime R. JTB.
Tokyo.Kosaido.
1990.
TAB\[GURA (Electronic BookYl/RS-028).
ed.
by Nihon-Kanko-Kyokai Co l1)oration.
Tokyo.Maes P. 1991.
The Agent Network Architecture(ANA).
SIGART bulletin (2), 4.Nagao K. and Taken(:hi A.
1994.
Social Inter-action: Multimodal Conversation with SocialAgents.
In Proceedings of AAAI-94, pp.
22- 28.Namba Y., Tsuji H., and Kinngawa H. 1994.
Nat-ural Language Interface for Multil)le SystemsSequential Control (In Japanese).
IPSJ Vol.35No.l, 1)1).20 34.Nichigai.
1990.
Th, e pr@ssional baseball (Ele(:-tronic Book YRRS-023).
Morioka It.
and Nichi-gai Asscoeiates Co. Tokyo.Nishida T. and Takeda H. 1993.
Towards theKnowledgeable Commnnity.
In Proceedings of\[nternation, al Conference on Building and Shar-ing of Very-Large Scale Knowledge Bases '93(KB ~ KS '93), pp.
157-166.
()hnlsha.PIA.
199(}.
PIA cinema club (Electronic BookYRRS-016).
ed.
by Watanabe K. PIA Co.Sakai K., Ikcda Y., and Fujita M. 1994.
RobustDiscourse Processing Considering Misrecogni-tion in Sl)oken Diah)gne System.
In Proceedingsof \[CSLP-94, S17-7.Sakai K., Ikeda Y., and Fujita M. 1995.
GaidansuSisutemu no Maruehi Domein-ka no Kokoromi(In Japanese), (A trial to increase Domains inGuidance System).
In Proceedings of The FirstAnwaal Meeting of Th, e Association for NaturalLanguage Processing, pp.
301-304.405
