Korean Language Engineer ing:  Current  Status  of  theIn format ion  P la t fo rm *Kim,  Seongyong and Cho i ,  Key-Sunl )epar tment  of Computer  Sc ienceKorea  Advanced h is t i tu te  of Sc ience and ~\[7"~chnologyTae jon ,  Koreasykim@csking.kaist.ac.kr, kschoi@worhl.kaist.ac.krAbstractLanguage engineering implenicnts func-tions of a language and inforillation viacomputers.
'\['he need for language en-gineering plattbrms has been generallyrecognized and several researches are be-ing undertaken around the worhl.
Ourgoal is to establish Korean inforn-iationplatform of linguistic resources and toolsfor Korean language and informationcolnumnities.
The platform will sup-port researchers and engineers with well-developed and standardized resourcesand al)plication tools thereby avoidingduplicate activities fi'om scratch a.nd ani-plifyiilg overall effort on the domain.This paper reports tile components andthe current status of the project, and theimportance of the effort.1 Korean Language Engineering1.1 Language Eng ineer ingLanguage ngineering is slich an activity that im-plements various fnnctions related to a languageand builds lip an information base.
It realizeslinguistic activities of everyday life and linguis-tic competence of human beings with the aids ofcomputer science, thereby supporting people's in-tellectual linguistic productions.
The language n-gineering not only collects and disseminates tileinformat, ion and knowledge of ~t language, amongthe linguistic society but also serves as a Younda-tion on which linguistic culture and ~echnologiescan be based (Oh et al, 1994).1.2 Korean  Language Eng ineer ingKorean language engineering is one for Koreanlanguage.
It came into birth in early 1980's withthe emergence of personal comt)uters (PCs).
hi*'Fhis work is fimded by Ministry of Science and7~,clmology and Ministry of Education and Athletics,as a part of a contract by Center for Korean LanguageEngineering.the beginning, they focused on Korean alphabetsand sonw scrappy parts of character processing,lacking the global view of the engineering ap-proaches.
Technical approaches to Korean beganwith the formation of the special interest groupon Korean information processing under tile Ko-rea Information Science Society.
And in 1994(;enter for Korean Language Engineering (KLE)was founded to serve as a centrM organization forKorean language engineering, which aims to planand progranl related projects an(i works in a con-sistent, systeinlttic way with long-teiun gems.
Italso incorporates academic and research institutesand hidustries into comnion goals: the etticientand imrmonious (lriw~ toward research and devel-opment, and establishment of long-range policiesand strategies for Korean la.ngu~tge engineering.2 Areas of Korean LanguageEngineering ResearchesAccording to the level of technologies, KLE par-titioned its projects into ttiree classes.Fundamental technology deals with radical andtheoretical researches, collection and nlanipula-tion of data, and standardization.
In linguis-tic viewpohlt, these include language \[ornialisms,text corpora, and statistical int'ormation of a lan-guage.
On infornlation enginee.ring side, the tech-nology covers information interchange and com-pression techniques, basic techniques of artifi-cial intelligence such as knowledge representation,searching, and tools for manipulating Korean al-phabets.
From the cognitive ngineering point ofview, the research focuses on the structure of Ko-rean alphabets, fonts, command structures, andinterdisciplinary works of cognitive science.
A/>o~her division handles standardization issues forcode schemes and w)cabnlaries, keyboard layout,standard text formats, and internationalization.
"Pile second class is called basic technology,which is related to the basic software libraries forKorean language processing.
Included in this classare natural anguage analysis, pattern recognition,multimedia data base, and data conversion tools.The third class is applications technology.
It1049network.~.o~r~sp, etto,'m =1/  ac:c~ss ~ ,~h~p s~rvor ~v ' ' v  ~ ~ ftp serverl ~ ~ ~  C(31 Olcb'Tenn~lin c~ ol.
U: Unix"TexI/Di:MS 1 S: Solelris W: V~4 nd a,w ~,Mgt b~y~,t~rn U/..~.t,~ Developing for Unix 11rs't,V~n4o.
;~s Platform then for S end WFigure 1: The Conceptual Diagram of the Infor-mation Platformconsists of systems for text interchange and com-pression, hypertext, multimedia, word processingand others.
For knowledge processing, it will coverdocument paraphrasing, indexing and retrieval,computer-based instruction/education, etc.3 In format ion P la t formFor Korean language ngineering, it is necessaryto develop systematically all the projects of eacharea and integrate them into a uniform frame,called an information platform (IP).
1 KLE pro-grams each project according to its priority andstate-of-the-art technology.
Consequently, \]P re-flects the status of ongoing projects and is an as-isframework on which further researches and devel-opment works can be performed.Figure 1 shows the conceptual diagram of IP.This platform doesn't integrate all the projectoutcomes but some of the 5mdamental resourcesand basic tools, since it reflects the current config-uration that is not concrete but open to changes.The whole integration of the project outcomes willbe available at the end of the first phase in 1997.This platform is different from ALEP (Ad-vanced Language Engineering Platform) (Simp-kins, 1994) in that ALEP is an environment thatcan be provided to users as a form of a (customiz-able) package whereas our platform is a server-client model in pursuit of a web-based service forresources and tools.Worldwide web is composed of hyperdocumentsand hyperlinks to handle multimedia data as wellas to provide easy and timely access to elec-tronic information.
It uses hypertext markup lan-guage (HTML) based on standardized generalizedmarkup language (SGML).
Therefore, it guaran-tees the standardization and straightforward de-1 "ltttp://world.kaist.ac.kr/KLE/KIBS/" isSunOS, version 1 platform and web pages are onlyin Korean.
The 2nd version will be released on Solarisat the address "http://kibs.kaist.ac.kr/KLE/KIBS/.
"sign characteristics, which lead to the ease of sys-tem design and tlexibility of the system config~rations (Berners-Lee ~5 Connolly, 1993).
Its othercharacteristic lies in the common gateway inter-face (CGI) which makes it possible to interfacewith various shell scripts and program codes with-out difficulties.
Yet another point is that theserver-client model makes the platform transpar-ent to the users.IP consists of three parts.
First, text corpora,voice and handwritten scripts DBs, dictionariesand a set of terminological DBs constitute the in-formation base.
The information base may di-rectly be distributed through ftp server or indi-rectly accessed by the language tools on the higherlayer of the http server configuration.Secondly, language tools are running on thehttp server with the aids of CGI as well as be-ing ftp-ed to users as executable codes.
Since weaim to provide software versions on Unix, Solaris,and PC Windows altogether, initial hardware re-quirements for each tool may be different.
~Finally, documentation preparation will also beaccompanied with the project's progress.4 In fo rmat ion  Base4.1 Text  CorpusText corpora are essential to statistical modeling,in developing formal theories of the grammars,investigating prosodic phenomena in speech, andevaluating or comparing the adequacy of parsingmodels (Marcus et al, 1993).
There are four sortsof corpora from contemporary Korean texts.?
Raw corpusTwo factors are the genre of each source textthat is related to the objective(s) in usingthe corpus, and the category of the text thatrepresents the internal structure of the text.Major sources of the corpus inchlde books,magazines, and newspapers; up to date threemillion word phrases are gathered.?
Part-of-speech (POS) tagged corpusPOS tagset for Korean originated from (KilnL~ Seo, 1994).
In version 1 platform weyielded 2.5 million automatically tagged wordphrases and 1.5 million post-edited wordphrases.?
Tree-tagged corpusThis can be produced by applying syntactictagset to the POS tagged corpus.
The syn-tactic tagset is being studied using 100,000sentences out of POS tagged corpus, and theresultant ree-tagged corpus using a tree tag-ger will appear at the end of this year.2For example, the text and dictionary manage-ment system is currently being built upon PC Win-dows so that Unix and Solaris executables are not yetavailable.1050?
Categorized corpusKorean verbs and adjectives are classified intoover seventy categories, and a set of sentencestyles are investigated for 940 basic verbs ofthose categories.
About thirty five thousandsentences are tangible in version 1 platform.4.2 Voice Data BaseThis resource can be used \['or speech recognitionand synthesis applications.
We initially focusedon word-level voice data.
It includes phoneti-cally balanced words, phonemic sequences pro-nounced by four different speakers, and narrationof sample stories.
It also stores the sounds of sin-gle syllables, diphones, numerics, high-frequencywords, gazetteers, flmctional words, and consecu-tive word sequences.
The data are stored in serverdisks and CD-ROMs as a wave form.
This ef-fort will be extended to sentence-level collectionssuch as phonetically balanced sentences, speechdialogues, and scenarios.4.3 Handwritten Scripts Data BaseSince character ecognition systems are under thecontrol of applications engineers, the objective ofthis work is to provide well-tbrmed ata and eval-uation criteria for those recognition systems.
Westepwise our data collection into three phases: toscan, with 300 dpi resolution, one thousand sets of590 high-frequency syllables in the first year, thenof 990 syllables and 2,350 syllables in the follow-ing years, a At each phase, we develop both thesquare-hand (:haracters and free-style characters.4.4 Dictionaries and Terminological DataBase?
Multilingual technical dictionaryThe objective is to set up mappings betweentechnical terms of Korean and other lan-gnage(s) in both directions.
'\['he first work isdone for computer science domain, and it has35,000 entries each for Korean and English.
Itwill be extended to cover Chinese, Japanese,and German as well as more domains includ-ing electrical/electronic engineering, medicalscience, law, etc.?
Monolingual terminology data bankUsers need definitions and explanations oftechnical terms during their work on specificdomains.
This work provides users such ter-minological details.
We assorted 15,000 en-tries each for culture/art and Korean classicalliterature.- Ontology-based lexiconCurrently awnlable dictionaries are seman-tically oriented.
They don't provide pools3It is possible to compose up to 11,172 syllables outof ea<:h Korean alphabet, but Korea/, Standard CodeKSC-:5601 prescribes 2,350 complete codes for Koreansyllables.of target language expressions but offerbasic meanings for entries together withsome syntactic and morphological informa-tion.
Ontology-based lexicon is lexically ori-ented in that it guides the user to find a prag-matically or contextually equivalent expres-sion corresponding to the source language x-pression.
The work is on the phase of feasi-bility study with intensive locus on collectingKorean-English bilingual information sourcesand developing tools for lexicon construction.Lexicon for morphological nalysisThe lexicon for Korean morphological anal-ysis is currently being built to have 30,000entries with oil'-line management tools, andwill grow to 100,000 entries with on-line toolsafter two more years.
45 Language Eng ineer ing  Too lsBasically, the tools that we present here are fortext corpus and dictionaries, except for voice andcharacter ecognizers.
The latter two programsare currently under the develol)ment and will beintegrated later.5.1 Morpho log ica l  Ana lyzerMorI>hological analysis is an important but dilfi-c, lt  t)art of the analysis ince Korean is an aggluti-native language with sophisticated morpheme seg-mentation rules and morphotactic rules.
The n\]or.-phological analyzer is based on the Korean chartparsing (Lee, 1993).
Its' current precision is over92 percent for the grammatical inl)ut sentences.
Itaims to achieve 98 percent accuracy in two nroreyears.
It will be extended to cover special sym-bols, alien strings, elliptical or abbreviated words,and spell errors to earn higher accuracy.5.2 TaggerBecause the output of morphological analysis israther complex due to the characteristics of Ko-rean, the use of a tagger to reduce ambiguitiesseems important for further processing.
(Shinet al, 1995) adopts the hidden Markov modeland takes into account the characteristics of Ko-rean word phrase structures for more accurate tag-ging: a word phrase contains one or more roofphemes, syntactic information (grammatical rela-tions by bound morphemes), and semantic infofmation (case roles by postpositions).
The exper-iments revealed 98 % accuracy for the test set of5,500 word phrases out of 55,000 training data,and 94.7 % tbr 5,500 untrained test data.~We can conceive much nlore types of dictionar-ies: for example, lexicons for syntactic attd semanticanalyses, and dictionaries tha.t are to be created or ex-tracted from existing ones upon users' or developers'nee(Is.
These will be i,clhded after the tirst phase ofthe project, following future direction of the project.1051Another approach is based on the Markov ran-dom field (MRF) theory (Jung, 1996), whose Ko-rean version will be added to IP this year.5.3 Tree Tagger(Kim, 1995) is a prototype using dependencygrammar and adopting statistical methods forranking the parse trees to get k-best parsing re-sults.
Its current accuracy is about 80 % for thetrained data.
While this is a working prototype,we need a tree tagger with better performanceso that another tree tagger using partial parsingmethod (Abney, 1991) is on breadboard.5.4 Korean/Engl ish Al ignment SystemAn alignment system gathers correspondencesbetween surface representations of both lan-guages.
(Shin, 1996) experimented xpectation-maximization algorithm with 68.7 % accuracy atphrase level, and this will be incorporated intoversion 2 platform.5.5 KWIC ManagerKeyword-in-context (KWIC) manager deals withword usage of text corpus.
Its functions include in-dexing and searching word phrases, morphemes orunigrams, applying logic operations (AND, OR,NO2) to them, and sorting the results.5.6 Text /Dict ionary ManagementSystemTI)MS' goals are twofold: to provide customi>able information extraction/indexing/search toolsand managerial functions for text data base; andto provide an environment for dictionary devebopment and management as well as converting ormerging existing dictionaries to the intended oneaccording to user's specification.Because of the big size of each text to bestored and lots of keywords to be indexed andsearched for each text, it requires special stor-ing and managing mechanisms.
This is also theease for the dictionary management.
For theextensibility and adaptability, we have devisedstandard ictionary markup language based onSGML.
Templates (dictionary features, text de-scriptors, and relations among those), specifica-tions for text/dictionary editor and format rans-lator have been also being designed and low-leveldesign is being undertaken.
This work is beingcoded on PC Windows and will output the firstdraft version this year.6 Conc lus ionTo this point we described the motivation and cur-rent status of the Korean IP, and took a brief lookat resources and tools.
We started the projectin 1994 to yield version I platform in 1995 andare working on version 2 platform.
The projectwill continue till the years of twenty first century.Although the current status is just an openingspot, the long-term goal is to bltikLfully automaticservers for Korean language information.
Since IPplays a key role in the effort, we hope that ourendeavors would be well geared to the needs ofnation-wide language ngineering.Re ferencesAbney, Steven.
1991.
Parsing by Chunks.Berwick, R., Abney, S., and Tenny, C.
(eds.
),Principle-Based Parsing.
Kluwer AcademicPublishers.Berners-Lee, Tim, and Connolly, Daniel.
1993.Hypertext Markup Language: A Representationof Textual Information and Mctainformationfor tletrieval and interchange.
CERN, USA.Jung, Sung-Young.
1996. it Markov Random Fieldbased English Part-of-rlhgging System.
M. S.Thesis, Korea Advanced institute of Science.and Technology.
(to appear in COLING96.
)Kim, tliongun.
1995.
Korean Syntactic Analysiswith Probabilistic Dependency Grammar.
M. S.Thesis, Korea Advanced Institute of Scienceand Technology.Kim, aae-Hoon, and Seo, Jungyun.
1994.
A Ko-rean Part-@Speech 7hg Set for Natural Lan-guage Processing.
Technical report no.
CAIR-TR-94-55.
KAIST: Center for Artificial Intelli-gence Research.Lee, Eun-Chul.
1993.
An hnproved Method on Ko-rean Morphological Analysis Based on CYK Al-gorithm,.
M. S. Thesis, Pohang Institute of Sci-ence and Tcdmology.Marcus, Mitchell P., Santorini, Beatrice, andMarcinkiewicz, Mary A.
1993.
Building a LargeAnnotated Corpus of Fmglish: The Penn Tree~hank.
Computational Linguistics, 19(2): 31.3-330,Oh, Gil-R,ok, Choi, Key-Sun, and Park, Se-Young.1994.
ftangul Engineering.
Seoul, Korea: Daey-onngsa.Shin, Jung-lto, Ilan, Young-Seok, Park, Young-Chan, and Choi, Key-Sun.
1995.
An HMMPart-of-Speech Tagger for Korean Based onWord-phrase.
Recent Advances in Natural Lan-guage Processing, Bulgaria.Shin, Jung-Ho.
1996.
Aligning a Parallel Korean-English Corpus at Word and Phrase Level.
M. S.Thesis, Korea Adwmce Institute of Science andTechnology.
(to appear in COLING96.
)Simpkins, N. K. 1994.
ALEP (Advanced LanguageEngineering Platform): An Open Architecturefor Language Engineering.
CEC and Cray Sys-tems, Luxembourg.1052
