Interpretation of Nominal Compounds: CombiningDomain-Independent and Domain-Specific InformationC6cile FabreIRISACampus de Beaulieu35200 Rennes\[~r&IICecfabre~irisa.ft"AbstractA domain independent model is pro-posed for the automated interpretationof nominal compounds in English.
Thismodel is meant o account for productiverules of interpretation which are inferredfrom the morpho-syntactic and seman-tic characteristics of the nominal con-stituents.
In particular, we make exten-sive use of Pustejovsky's principles con-cerning the predicative information asso-ciated with nominals.
We argue that it isnecessary to draw a line between gener-alizable semantic principles and domain-specific semantic information.
We ex-plain this distinction and we show howthis model may be applied to the in-terpretation of compounds in real texts,provided that complementary semanticinformation are retrieved.1 Mot ivat ionInterpreting nominal compounds consists in re-trieving the predicative relation between the con-stituents.
In many cases, no surface information isavailable to deduce the relation, and in particularno morphological evidence of a link between theconstituents and the underlying predicate.
Thisproblem has been tackled in several types of NLPsystems, mainly:- domain-dependent systems.
Such systems arevery efficient but are limited to the domain theyare built for: interpretation rules are inferredfrom the observation of specific semantic patterns(Marsh, 1984) or from a fine-grained conceptualrepresentation (Ter Stal, 1996).domain-independent systems (Finin, 1980;Mac Donald, 1982), built to account for any kindof interpretation patterns, including rules thatare not inferred from the properties of the con-stituents (what Finin calls productive rulcs, in op-position to structural rules).
Frequency and prob-ability scores are added to the rules.
Such numericweighting of general semantic rules is hardly de-fensible in the absence of any reference to a do-main.Consequently, the questions that we proposeto answer are: how far Call we go in design-ing a model of interpretation rules which accountfor productive patterns of interpretation, indepen-dently of any domain?
Couversely, what domaimspecific information must be available to enrichthis general model?
The aim of our research is todefine as precisely as possible the border line be-tween what can be regularly described with gen-eral linguistic mechanisms, and what has to dowith subregular or irregular phenomena which de-pend on corpus characteristics.
This is a crucialissue when dealing with compound semantics be-cause regular semantic patterns (involving rela-tional properties of nominMs) and extralinguisticdata are mingled.We have designed a model 1 that accounts forstructural rules (in Finin's terminology) of in-terpretation of N N compounds 2, i.e.
domain-independent rnles that are deduced from thernorpho-syntactic and semantic haracteristics ofthe nominal constituents.
The interest of this gen-eral model is to base the interpretation of com-pounds exclusively on general principles regard-ing the association between ouns and predicativeinformation.
Besides, this non-specialized modelof interpretation allows us to draw a comparisonwith nominal sequences across languages, and es->Phis project is supported by the CNE'P (contractCNET-INRIA n?951B030).
Our model of interpreta-tion of nominal compounds will be used to enrich imformation retrieval in a system that is open-domaln.2In this work, we only focus on non-recursiveterms.
The same interpretation mechanisms can beextended to compounds with three constituents ormore, but furthermore these compounds raise theproblem of ambiguous bracketing (Resnik, 1993).364pecially with l)?ench sequences of the form "N deN" and "N g N", in which tile l)repositional linkis semantically weak (l,'abre and Sdbillot, 1994).We first describe this model, showing how com-l)ound interl)retation must rely on an accurate de-scription of the predicative prol)erties of n()minalconstituents.
We then suggest how this generalmodel may be apl)lied to the interpre.tation ofcompounds in texts, provided that it is made morespecilic wil, h domain-dependent or text-specific in-formation.2 Domain - independent  lnode lIn this section, we briefly explain how the inter-pretation is carried out when conlpoullds containexplicit predicative information.
We then focuson the interpretation of compounds in which theconstituents are root nonainals.Ill what follows, semantic features are adaptedfront the WordNet lexical database :~ which pro-vides a rich but non-specialized semantic taxon-omy.
We use a small part of this hierar(:hy in orderto define, a set of semantic features that lat)el non>inal constituents.
Sen:laaltic labels are also used I,oexpress seleetional restrictkms on arguments.2.1 Compounds  w i th  a devea'lmlconst i tuentCompounds including a deverbal constituent thatsubcategorizes the other (:onstitueut have beenprecisely descril)ed, in particular within the, gen-erative franmwork (Selkirk, 1982; IAeber, 11983).These results have been integrated in our model.The predicati(:e relation between the con-stituents is given by the verbal root of the (lever-bal noun.
We differentiate two types of deverbals:a deverba\] may refer to the accomplishment orthe result of the process denoted by the verb (e.g.parsing) or it may saturate the role assigned toone of the a rgunmnts of the verb and thus referto one of the actors of the process (mainly agentor instrument, e.g.
parser).
In the former ease(action deverbals), the deverbal inherits the en-tire ~rgument s ructure of tile w~'rb; in the latter(subject devcrbals), it inherits the structure mi-mls the agent saturated by the sutfix.
When thedeverbal noun occupies the head position of thecompound, the non-head may saturate one of theroles of the argument structure of the deverbal,either the theme role, a.s in sentence parsing --yparsc(theme: sentence4), or a semantic role (illaWordNet is a trademark of lh'inceton University.4'l'he semant;ic interpre|;ation is ,'epresented in atormula that exhit)its both t, he underlying pr(:dicateand the roles thaC each constitucnl, plays in th(" m'gu-the sense of Selkirk (1982)), referring to a cir-cmnstance of tile action (location, time, means,etc.
}: hand parsing ~ parse(means: hand).
Whenthe deverbal noun is the non-head, it cannot sat-urate an internal argument within tile compound(Lieber, 1983); in this case, the head may onlyfill a semantic or an external argument: parsingprogram --~ pacsc(instrument: program).This first series of compounding patterns hasoften be considered as the only type of compoundwhich can be described in semantic terms (Selkirk,1982).
Our own position is to argue that the samepredicate-argument pattern IIlay be used to dealwith other types of compounds, provided that werely on a richer semantic representation of nomi-na.ls, when no morpho-syntactic clues are availableto constrain the semantic interpretation.2.2 Root  conlponndsNominM compounds illustrate the distributionalproperties of nouns in the absenee of any ex-plicit verbal ln'edicate.
They attest an rattier-lying event structure associated to nominal con-stituents, which makes it possible to derive a pred-icative relation from the mere collocation of twosimple nouns.
The idea that noun meaning in-volves ewmt-based escription has been particu-larly emphasized by J. Pustejovsky (1991).
Wepropose to apl)ly a crucial component of his gener-ative lea:icon, tile qualia st'ructurc, to tile semanticinterpre~tation f conlpOullds.The key idea tllnt underlies the qualia sl,'uctu,vis that nouns are implicitly related to predicativeinformation, and that a noun selects tbr the tyl)eof predicate, that can govern it.
The four typ-ical nominal relations that constitute the qualiastruetmv are tile telic role, that refers to the pur-pose and function of the referent, the agentive role,that concerns the factors involved in its origins,the constitutive role, that captures the relation be-tween an object and its constituent parts, and theJormal role, that distinguishes the ol)ject within alarger domain.We illustrate the use of this theoretical flame-work R)r the interpretation of nolnitm.l contpounds.Telic role.
The notion of telic role is directlyapplicable to the treatment of COml)ounds.
It; re-calls Finin's notion of role nominals (Finin, 1980).A role nominal is typically linked to a verbal pred-ica.te that denotes its purpose; it, fills one of theroles included in the argument structm:e of theverb.
For example, the noun pipeline typicallyrefl'.rs to the external argument of tile verb trans-menl; structure o\[ that predicate: NI N2 -+ V(role_i:IN2, role_j: N1).
The head constituent is underlined.365port (cf.
WordNet textual gloss: '% long pipe usedto transport liquids or gases").
Unlike subject de-verbals, role nominals are not provided with anargument structure that may be syntactically sat-isfied.
Nevertheless, the argument structure of theunderlying verb provides a clue for the distribu-tional properties of the noun within compounds.The verb tTunsport requires a subject and an ob-ject argument; since the noun pipeline refers to itsfirst argument, the position which is left empty(the theme) may be occupied by the first con-stituent of a compound of the form N pipeline, asin oil pipeline -+ transport(instrument: pipeline,theme: oil).Agent ive  role.
The agentive role is also se-lected by the compounding mechanism: the non-head may refer to the origin of the head noun,as in pancreas ptyalin -+ produce(agent: pan-creas, theme: ptyalin), in compiler message -+emit(agent: compiler, theme: message), or in bul-let wound ~ cause(agent: bullet, theme: wound).We see that this relation covers different kinds ofpredicates which are instances of a more generalrelation of creation.Const i tu t ive  role.
The constitutive role in-cludes various kinds of semantic associations, uchas part-whole relations (outrigger canoe) or sub-stance relations (stone house).Formal  role.
The formal role involves a re-lation of characterization which concerns differ-ent aspects of an object (its size, shape, color,etc.).
The nouns that denote such information aremostly elements of the ATTRIBUTE class, which isdefined in WordNet as "an abstraction belongingto or characteristic of an entity".
Each member ofthis class may appear at the head position of com-pounds in which the non-head denotes the entitythat is characterized: desk height --+ character-ize(attribute: he_ight, entity: desk).
These nounsare uni-relationM nouns that can appear as thehead of "N1 of N2" groups, where N2 is a syn-tactic argument of N1 (e.g.
height of the desk)(Isabelle, 1984).Consequently, Pustejovsky's notion of noun'squalia helps to characterize implicit predicativelink in compounds.
This semantic frameworkdemonstrates that the association between nomi-nal constituents and underlying predicative rela-tion in root compounds is not arbitrary: it in-volves conceptual mechanisms that are triggeredin other linguistic phenomena such as type coer-cion (Pustejovsky, 1991), anaphora (Fradin, 1984)or adjectival constructions (Bouillon and Viegas,1993).2.3 Imp lementat ion  and  resu l t sThe implementation of these principles in ourmodel is based on a conceptual framework in or-der to associate predicative information with nom-inal constituents.
Two cases arise: when the linkbetween a noun and a predicate is characteristicof a single noun, it is expressed in its lexical en-try.
When it is shared by a whole class of nouns,it is seen as a characteristic feature of that classwhich accounts for a relational property that anymember of the class inherits.
For example, thetelic role of the word pipeline, which involves theverb transport, cannot be generalized to a wholeclass of nouns.
On the contrary, the predicateCONTAIN is a characteristic feature of the classCONTAINER.
Consequently, several predicates andseveral roles are potentially associated with nom-inal constituents, either as instances of differentattributes, or as a consequence of this inheritancemechanism.We have tested our model on a list of 100 com-pounds randomly picked up from a list of N Nsequences in isolation 5.
Our program generatesany interpretation that can be calculated on ac-count of the mechanisms that we have described.Firstly, the list of predicates that are associated tothe head constituent 6 is retrieved.
Secondly, onlythe predicates that can provide a role to the otherconstituent are retained.It is difficult to assess the correction of the an-swers that are produced, since we are dealing withcompounds in isolation.
Other answers are some-times conceivable, if we apply less regular princi-ples of semantic associations (Downing 1977), sothat we cannot compare our results with a closedset of correct answers.
Moreover, we cannot set aclear-cut border line between probable and hardlyconceivable interpretations.
Having said this, wecan estimate our results as follows: 71% of ~hecompounds that we have examined receive accept-able answers.
For example, our program generatestwo clearly acceptable solutions for the compoundmissile range:1) characterize(agent: range_7, theme: missile)2) shoot(locative: range_9, theme: missile)Contrary to Finin's and Mac Donald's models,5This list of 9000 binary nominals has been kindlyput at our disposal by R. Sproat.
The corpus is de-scribed in (Sproat, 1994).6 In most cases, the predicative information is asso-ciated with the head, except when the non-head is de-verbal, as in hunting lodge, or when the head refers toan under,pecified event structure, ,as in malaria pro-gram (fight) vs crop program (develop).
Such com--pounds illustrate the notion of co-compositionality(Pustejovsky 1991).366we are dealing with ambiguous constituents: ninemeanings of the word range are listed, which cor-respond to the description given by WordNet forthis noun.
Only senses 7 ("scope", ATTmBUTE)and 9 ("a place for shooting projectiles", AaTE-FACT) are related to a predicative informationthat is compatible with the non-head, namely theformal role in the first case, and the relic role inthe other.
Some answers are more questionable:cardboard box --1) constilutc(agent: cardboard, theme: box_/t,box_5, box_6, box_7) - objects made of cardboard(constitutive role)2) contain(locative: box_7, theme: cardboard) -box that contains cardboard (telic role)3) produce(agent: box_3, theme: cardboard) --plant that produce cardboard (telic role)4) measure(agent: box_2, theme: cardboard)- aquantity of cardboard (formM role)Interpretations 2, 3 and 4 are surely mistakenin a standard context, if we refer to extralinguis-tic: knowledge (box_3 - a kind of shrub - does notprodnce cardlooard the way gum trees l)rodncegum) or to lexicalization (the compound card-board box has only one usual meaning, namelyconstitute(agent: cardboard, theme: box_7, wherebox_7 refers to the container).
Yet, each answeris conceivable because it corresponds to produc-tive semantic patterns and therefore to existingcognitive strategies.6% o f  the answers miss expected answers and23% give no answers at all.
If we compare ourresults with those of Mac Donald (1982), we seethat the part of silence is undoubtedly less im-portant in his system (no meaning is producedfor 10 % of the compounds).
Nevertheless, onecrucial distinction must be emphasized: in Macl)onMd's system, slots are defined in relation tonominals, and an interpretation is identified if oneconstituent can fill a slot of the other.
These slotsare supposed to represent any piece of real-worldknowledge that is necessary to understand nouncompomMs, but nothing precise is said about theinformation that needs to be stored.
The solu-tion to improve this resnlt is unclear in such asystem: missing interpretations correspond to ab-sent slots, but no indication is given regarding theslots that must be added.
On the contrary, wehave shown that a few general principles of pred-icative attachment to nominal constituents are in-volved in the interpretation of Compounds in ourmodel; consequently, the analysis of incorrect an-swers allow us to determine in what cases domain-independent rnechanisms are unsulticient o per-form the interpretation and what kind of knowl-edge must be added to improve these results, ei-ther from domain-dependent or froln contextualinformation.
One can classify the problems in twocategories:Inappropriate selectional restrictionsOnly selectionM features can constrMn the in-terpretation when several predicates are possible,in order to distinguish between different roles (e.g.shoulder wound-  the non-head affects a BODYPART VS bullet wound - the wound is caused by aWEAPON).
Consequently, no interpretation is gen-erated when the semantics of the non-head doesnot match the constraints on the arguments ofthe predicate, and particnlarly in case of semanticshifts: stadium is a CONSTI~UCTION, but in sta-dium clo~sh, it is viewed as a LOCATION or 3.s aGI{OUP of people.
This is a general issue in lex-ical semantics; yet, the problem is all the moredifficult to handle in compounds as no syntacticclue (i.e.
no prepositional link) is available to dis-tinguish between different (semantic or thematic)roles.
It is also particnlarly problematic to solveambignons role assignment when semantic rolesare concerned (as in fear voters).Missing pred icat ive  l lnk A general modelcannot account for all possible compounding rela-tions.
Not to mention contextual links (Downing,1977), some productive relations cannot be con-strained from the semantics of the constituents.Specific links such as ressemblance (carpet shark)or subclass relations (marathon tour) cannot bedescribed with structural rules.
Moreover, a pred-icative information may be missed when it entailsfine extralinguistic knowledge (e.g.
fl'uit fly: in-sect whose larvae feed on ft'nits).Generation of multiple interpretations and un-predicted patterns due to selectional violationor extralingnistic information are thus the twoinherent limits of a domain-independent modelof interpretation.
Our aim is to give sugges-tions about the possibilities of refining this modelwhen domMn-specific or contextual informationare available.3 Domain-specif ic semantici n fo r lnat ion3.1 Detect ion  of  specif ic  patternsPre ferent ia l  pat terns  Statistical methods havebeen experimented by psycholinguists uch asPamela Downing (Downing, 1977) and Mary Ellenl{yder (Ryder, 1984): their purpose is to use sta-tistical knowledge to interpret new compounds.Ryder argues that a set of semantic rules is notsufficient to deal with the productivity of thecompounding process, since the creation of new3 6'7compounds involves extralinguistie knowledge andcognitive strategies.
According to her, "the pre-dictability is probabilistic", and she shows thatthe creation and interpretation of new compoundsis based on knowledge about productive semanticpatterns.
For example, she lists highly frequenttemplates uch as:N -t- PRODUCT : PRODUCT used on N (petshampoo, laundry detergent)This pattern illustrates only one facet - the relicone - of the head noun (and is irrelevant for exam-ples such as egg shampoo r dishwasher detergent).This statistical result may differ considerably fromone corpus to another.
Consequently, fi'equencyscores cannot be part of a domain-independentmodel.From our results, we see that two types of spe-cific information must be available to refine ourdomain-independent rules: firstly, we must spec-ify the relative frequence of each role to assess thebest interpretation tbr a compound when severalsemantic relations apply.
Secondly, we want todetermine the semantic features that characterizethe non-head for one given role; P.Resnik's aim issimilar when he illustrates the use of selectionalassociation in compounds (Resnik 1993), in orderto find N N semantic patterns which help to per-form adequate bracketing of sequences with threeconstituents or more.
Ite shows that it is diflicnltto find clear-cut semantic groups in unrestrictedtexts.
Yet, such techniques, that combine statis-tic measures and conceptual knowledge, are verypromising to exhibit typical patterns of associa-tion in specific domains.Unpred ie ted  pat terns  Exhibiting unpre-dieted patterns is a first step towards the determi-nation of specific interpretation schemes in a givendomain.
For example, let us consider a list of com-pounds matching the N pump pattern, such as: airpump, beer pump, breast pump, cattle pump, gearpump, piston pure,p, sand pump, stomach pump,drainage pump.
In this list, we find compoundsexhibiting:- the telic role of the noun:SUBSTANCE + pump --+ pump(instrmnent:pump, theme: SUnSTANCP 0 (sand, air)ACTION -t- pump ~ ACTION(instrument: pump(drainage)-.
the constitutive role of the nounOBJECT + pump -+ constitute(theme: pump,agent: OBJECT)  (gear, piston)These patterns are predicted and interpretedby our set of rules.
Other types of associa-tions, too specific to be taken into account by ourmodel, appear in the list: ANIMAL + pump (cat-tie pump) and ORGAN + pump (stomach pump,breast pump), in which the missing predicates arerespectively feed - i.e.
pump food Jor - and clean- i.e.
pump the contents of.
We see that the un-derlying relic relation is more complex, becauseit includes also an implicit argument (food, con-tents) of the predicate.
These are typically theSpecific patterns that cannot be taken into ac-count in a general model.
Exhibiting semanticpatterns in the texts is thus a way to autolnati-eally learn more specific patterns of associations insublanguages.
We are currently experimenting theway techniques of computer-aided acquisition forlearning conceptual relations fi'om syntactic ollo-cates (Velardi et al 1991) can be applied to N Nassociations.3.2 Ident i f i ca t ion  of  the  pred icat ive  l inkOur model associates a fixed verbal predicate withnouns or nominal classes to account for a givensemantic facet.
This predicate corresponds to thetypical predicative information that occur ill theWordnet textual gloss, when it is available.
Infact, this predicate may vary fl'om one corpus toanother, and we nmst take into account this vari-ation which corresponds to specific conceptual de-scriptions.
Contextual information can contributeto identify the predicative relation by looking else-where in the text to see if the constituents ofthe compound are involved in another kind of lin-guistic construction, where their semantic relationwould be explicit.
Given a compound N1 N2, wemay look for strings in which the couple (N1, N2)occurs in a different relation.
In the following ex-amples, the context provides the missing verbalpredicate:compiler warnings: (compiler,warning) = "it isreasonable for the compiler to emit a warning"In this example, which corresponds to the agen-tive role, we see that the two nouns are argmnentsof the predicate that instantiates the underlyingrelation, which means that corpus-based methodscan use a rich linguistic structure to identify thepredicate.
Pustejovsky et al (1993) show howstatistical techniques, such as mutual informationmeasures can contribute to automatically acquirelexical information regarding the link between anoun and a predicate.
Similar techniques are usedby (Grefenstette and Teut~l 1.995) to determiuethe support verb associated with deverbal nouns.ConclusionThis paper describes a domain-independent modeltbr the ,interpretation of nominal compounds; itshows how general knowledge and domain-specific368itiforinal;ion inay be combined for the interpreta-tion of nolnitlal colllpoulids.
Otlr goal is to ac-count for l)roductive and actress-domain rules ofinterpretal,ion, l'\]xperimentation shows that thedelinition of general rules, which inchide concep-tual description of the norninal constituents, im-plies the generation of multiple interpretations, es-pecially since we are dealing with arnbiguous nom-inal constituerits.We have \])reposed several ways of incoq)orat-ing specific 8elnantic inforination in our model,and we have suggested how corl)us observationscan detect l)referential semantic relations and llll-predicted semantic patterns.
Statistical observa.-tions can contribute to identify the most produc-tive compounding strategies for a given corl)us ,and are especially very proniising a.s a way to (lea\[with technical texts, in which the semantic vari-ety of cOinl)ounding relation is limited.
'.l'his workis currently experinmnted in lPrenc\]l, where it el)-pears that tile saine eon(:el)tua\] franlcwork holdsto account for the semantic role of prel)ositions (~and de in binoininal sequences.ReferencesPierrette l~ouillon and l,;velyl,e Viegas.
1993.Semantic I,exicons: the Cornerstone tbr l,exicalChoice in Natural I,anguage (Jeneration, Prec.of tl~e sew'ulh I~d, ernational Workshop (4N,tu~'alLang'ua.qc (;cnc'raLion.Pamela Downing.
1977.
On the Creation andUse of English Compound Nouns.
Language ,53(4): 810-842.Cdcile Fabre and Pascalc Sdbillot.
1994. ln-terprdtation sdmantique des composds noniinauxanglais el; fran~a.is, l'roc, oJ the.
Workshop onCompound Norms: Multilingual Aspects of Nomi-nal (7omposition, Genbve.
'l' imothy Wilking 1,'inin.
1980.
'Phe SemanticInterpretation of Nominal Compounds, Prec.
ofthe first co~@rcnce of AI.Bernard l,'radin.
1984.
Anaphorisation etst&dotypes nominaux, Liugua, North-llolland,64: 3:x5-31i9.
(h'egory ( \ ] l  eR:nstette and Siinone 'l'eut%l.
1995.Corl)us-based lnethod for auLoniatic idenLilicationof ,nil)port verbs for noininalizations, l"roc, ofEA CL, 1)ublin.Pierre lsabelle.
1984.
Another Look at Nominal(\]otnpoullds, 13vet.
of Colin q-.S4.I/,ochelle l,ieber.
71.983.
Argument Linking andCompounds in I!
',nglish, Linguistic lnqui'w, il d(2):2571-285.Da.vid 1t.
Mac Donald.
1982, I/ndc,'s&mdi~lg(7o'mpounds Nouns, l 'hD Thesis, (3arnegie Mellon/ Jniversity.Elaine Marsh.
11984.
A Computational Analy-sis of Complex Noun Phrases in Navy Messages,P'~vc.
of Colin q-84.James Pusteiovsky.
19911.
The Generative I,ex-icon, Computational Linguistics, 1714): 408-441.James Pustejovsky, Peter Anick and SabineBergler.
11993. l,exical Semantic 'l%chniqnesfor Corpus Analyses.
Computational Lmg,i~tics,;I 9(2).Philil) Stuart Resnik.
1993.
Selection alzd lr~-Jb'rmaliou: a Class-\]lascd Approach go l,emical ~c-l, lionships.
PhD Thesis, University of Pennsylva-nia.Mary Ellen Ryder.
1994.
O~de,wd Chaos: theinterpretatiol~ ofEuglish Noun-Noun Compotmds.University of California Press.l~',lisabeth Selkirk.
1982.
71~e S~\]ntaa: of Wo'rd,%M1T I'ress.Richard Sproat.
1!)94.
l,;nglish Noun-PhraseAccent Prediction for Text-to-Speech, (\]ompulc.,",5'peech (rod Language, 8: 79-9/1.Wilco Ter Stal.
1996.
Automated hd, e,cp.cctal, ionof Nominal Co'mpounds in a Technical Domain,Phi) Thesis.
University of Twente, the Nether-lands.Pa.ola Velardi, Michela Fasolo and M aria 'l'cresal'azienza.
1991. llow to l'hieode Semantic Knowl-edge: A Method \['or Meaning l{el)resentation a d(Joml)uter-Aided Acquisition, Computatioual Li~t-9uisl, ics, 11712): 153-1170.369
