On Inference-Based Procedures for Lexical DisambiguationJ i i rgen  Wedek indI ns t i tu te  for Natura l  Language Process ingUn ivers i ty  of S tut tgar tAzenbergst r .
12D-70174 Stut tgar t ,  FRGj uergen(0) ims .un i - s tu t tgar t .deAbstractIn this paper we sketch a decidableinference-based procedure for lexical dis-ambiguation which operates on semanticrepresentations of discourse and concep-tual knowledge, In contrast o other ap-proaches which use a classical logic forthe disambiguating inferences and runinto decidability problems, we argue onthe basis of empirical evidence that theunderlying iifference mechanism has tobe essentially incomplete in order to be(cognitively) adequate.
Since our con-ceptual knowledge can be representedin a rather restricted representation lan-guage, it is then possible to show that therestrictions atisfied by the conceptualknowledge and the inferences ensure inan empirically adequate ww the decid-ability of the problem, although a fullyexpressive language is used to representdiscourse.1 Int roduct ionThe determination of the contextual appropriate-hess of a reading of a lexically ambiguous entenceis conlmonly called lexical disambiguation.
Lexicaldisambiguation presents a particular problein forany sort of natural anguage processing, but espe-cially for machine translation, since the seInanticgrids of the source and the target may divergein such a way that one has to disambiguate incases where it, is not required for applications ofthe source alone.
1 Resolving lexical ambiguitiesis a problematic task, since it, involves differentsources of linguistic and nonlinguistic information:intbrmation about the context of a sentence in adiscourse, about the meanings of the words andabout the world.iFor the translation from German to English e.g.
it;is necessary to disambiguate 'Uhr' (clock/watch), but1lot for knowledge retrieval or other 1,atural languageprocessing tasks based on German alone.Approaches to model the lexical disambigua-tion process formally differ as to the degree towhich they consider the information of tile varioussources needed to disambiguate properly.
We candistinguish two classes of approaches: "surface-oriented" approaches and "inference-based" ap-proaches.
Surface-oriented approaches rely onselectional restrictions (of.
e.g.
McCord 1989)(sometimes upplied by an external type hierar-chy/ontology (e.g.
Nirenburg 1989) or are statis-tical (e.g.
Kameyama, Peters, and Schiitze 1993).Although quite useful for some purposes, theperformance of surface-oriented approaches i in-herently limited in that their context sensitivity isalways locally bounded (see e.g.
Kay, Gawron, andNorvig 1994 for details).
Since we cannot assumefixed finite context, boundaries within each lexicalambiguity can be locally resolved, inference-basedapproaches seem more promising for handling lex-ical disambiguation, hfference-based approachesassume thai; the language of a logic is used to rep-resent the meaning of a discourse, that the samelanguage is used to store our conceptual and worldknowledge and that resolution is achieved on thebasis of the underlying logic by special inferences.The most promineut inference pattern (whichis also the center of the discussion here) is e.g.the proof of a contradiction from a given read-ing in a given context and our conceptual andworld knowledge which allows us to rule out thatreading.
Although these approaches can handlethe problem of disambiguating information arbi-trarily far away (the whole context is available asa premise), without any fllrther restrictions theyrun into tractability problems which exclude apractical application.
Since we need - as we willshow below a representation language which isat least as expressive as the language of first-orderpredicate logic for an adeqm~te representation ofdiscourse meanings, an inconsistency test is notcomputable anymore if a classical (sound and asfar as possible complete) calculus is used for thetest: the underlying problem is simply undecid-able.Although it ,nay turn out that the disambigua-tion problem is in fact undecidable if world knowl-980edge is also used for disambiguating inferences,we assmrm~ that resolut;ion restricted to concep-tual knowle.dge constitutes an important subprob-lem froln a cognitive point of view, which is solv-able in eonl:rast o the general problem.
Thai; allknown approaches which are confined to concep-tual knowledge nevertheless rtm into probletns isdue to an empirically false estimation: they donot take into account that humans are able.
todisalntfiguate ven without a fllll understmMingof the discourse} Lexical disambiguation workseven very well in most of those cases where tilediscourse is inconsistent; or its consistency ix notknown, and the inconsistency test wouht either failor ltot necessarily terminate.
Thus, the kind ofreasoning which is involved ill lexieal disambigua-lion has to be.
essentially incoml)lete.
Since ourconceptual knowledge, on the other hand, can beret)resenl;e.d in a rift;her restricted ret)resentationlanguage, it is possible to restrict infere.n(:ing inan emt)irically adequate way which ensures decid-ahility of tile problem all;hough a flflly expressive,language in used to represent discourse.2 The  Idea of In fe rence-BasedLexica l  D isambiguat ionLexical disambiguation is a procedm'e determin-in~ r for a (le.xically) amhiguous entence within adiscourse which reading of the selttellce is contex-tually api)ropriate.
Iq'om a logicM point of view,the resolution of a lexical amtfiguity is usually re-constructed by an inference process which rulesout a reading if our concet)tual knowledge contra-dicts this readiug in the given ('ontext.
'~ In orderto illustrate this type of inference-based resolutiont)rocedure let us consider the German sentence (1)(1) Einige Arzte haben eine Schwester.which contains the ambiguous lexical item'Sehwester'.
Let us consider the two readingsof (1) which have to be expressed in English by(2a,b) .4(2) (a) Some physicians haw; a sister.
(b) Some physicians have a nurse.These two readings are represented by the two(oversimplified) predicate-calculus forinulas givenin (3).
'5(a) (a) 3~:( S'h>~i,.i~4~;) A ~:j( si.,.t~r.
(:/, :,:)))(I,) ~:( l'h>~i,:i,,~(~.)
^ ~:,j(m,,,.~e(,)))2Approaehes which employ worhl knowledge in anontrivial way m'e not; known, by the way.SAn overview on the, different methods is given inKay, Oawron, and Norvig 1994.4Sentence (1) has, of course, more readings.
Butwe abstract away fl'oln the others R)r the sake ofsimplicity.SSince we are primarily interested in the process,we abstract fi'om furtl,er details, like temporal aspects.ll,esolution of an ambiguity as in (1) is possibleif it; is embedded in a discourse which providesdisambiguating information.
If the discourse werecontinued as in (4)(4) Einige Arzte haben eine Schwester, mit der sicverheiratet sind.we could rule out the mMesired reading givenin (5).
(5) 3a:(Pi~ys.
(x) A 3y(Sister(y, x) A Married(x, y)))This reading which is expre, ssed in English by (6)(6) Some physicians have a sister to whom they aremarried.can he ruled out, since according to our concep-tual system nobody can be married to his sister.Since this part of our conceptual knowledge canbe formalized, as in (7)(7) VxVy( Xistc.r(y, x) -~ -Married(x, y) )the inapl)roprial:eness of reading (5) can be ex-plicated front a logical point of view by the factthat we can deriw; a contradiction fl'Oln that read-ing of (4) and our conceptual knowledge (meaningpostulates).a3 The  In t ractab i l i ty  P rob lemOur inference-based reconstruction of the disam-biguation process given in the previous section re-quires oil the one hand that the meaning of thetext is adequately represented in an apt)ropriate(formal) representation language, which allows theencoding of conceptuM knowledge as well.
By re-quiring on l;he other hand the underlying logic tobe sound and as far as possible complete, we run,of course, into well-known decidability prot)lems.Without any flu'ther restrictions on tile expres-sive power of 1;he representation language and/orthe underlying logic the inconsistency of the repre-sentation of an arbitrary text and our conceptualknowledge is not decidable.
Thus a natural lan-guage system whose re.solver is based on such aninference system is not very useflfl, since an at-tempt to resolve an ambiguity is not guaranteedto terminate.Since the field of AI which deals with knowl-edge represenl;ation and rel, rievM has heen worry-ing about the same problem for quite a hmg time,it is not surprising that approaches to eope with~>Phere is, of course, another procedure which isdual to the given one.
The.
dtml variant allows us torule out a reading if this reading of the discourse con-rains redundant intbrmation, i.e., inlbrmation whichalready follows fl'om the meaning postulates.
Thisprocedure would exchlde e.g.
for 'Einige Arzte habe.neine Schwester, rail; der sie nicht w'xheiratet sind' theSister" reading which is expressed in English by 'Somephysicians have a sister to whom they are not mar-ried', since (7) implies for physicians who 1,aw~ a sisterthat they are not married to her.981this problem within lexical disambiguation weredirectly adopted from knowledge representation.According to the subject of the restriction used toensure the traetabilty of the problem, we have todistinguish three main approaches.The simplest way to guarantee tractability ofthe disambiguation problem is by restricted com-putations.
If the underlying logic of a resolver isknown to be undecidable (e.g.
the inference ma-chine used in LILOG (Bollinger, Lorenz, and Ple-tat 1991)) the only chance to ensure terminationis by stopping the computation after a limitedamount of resources (inference length, computa-tion time, etc.)
is consumed.
Since the termi-nation behavior of such a system is without anyfurther empirical evidence not in any way corre-lated with our cognitive capabilities and withoutany further formal evidence not in any way cor-related with the behavior which we would expect,if the disambiguation problem were neverthelessdecidable, we have to rule out these approachesfrom a scientific point of view.The second class of approaches achievestractability by restricted representation languages.These restrictions allow one to base retrieval on atractable logic which is sound and complete.
In or-der to support he distinction between terminolog-ical and assertional knowledge, most formalisms ofthis class provide two different (restricted) repre-sentation languages: the terminological languageand the assertional language.To use one of these knowledge representationformalisms (especially the tractable descendantsof KL-ONE) for lexical disambiguation leads toproblems which disqualify language restrictions asthe only means to ensure tractability of the dis-ambiguation problem.
On the one hand it is, ofcourse, possible to find examples of meaning pos-tulates which are inexpressible in the restrictedterminological languages (see e.g.
the list given inDoyle and Patil 1991).
But these counterexam-ples do not provide conclusive arguments, sincethe expressive power needed in order to formulatethese eounterexamples is till rather weak, and onecould counter by moving a little bit of expressivepower around.
Much more crucial for disambigua-tion are the restrictions imposed on the assertionallanguage.In BACK (Hoppe et al 1993), for example, whichis used by Quantz and Schmitz 1993 for disam-biguation by storing the text representation in theABox (assertional knowledge base) and the mean-ing postulates in the TBox (terminological knowl-edge base) it is e.g.
not possible to represent (4)in an adequate way.
We can only find represen-tations whose models include the models of (5),but not a representation with exactly the samemodels.
In order to see this, consider the set-theoretic versions of the satisfiability conditionsof (5) and (7) (for a model with interpretationflmction Z) given in (8) and (9).
7(8) (~Phys.\]ZN{x I ~y((y, x)e ~Sist.\]Zn~Marr.\]Z)}) # 0(9) \[Sister\] z n \[Married\] z =According to these conditions the BACK expres-sions (10) and (11) were adequate representationsof" (5) and (7).
(10) X :: Phys.
and some(Sister and Married)(11) Sister and Married :< nothingAlthough (10) contradicts the TBox representa-tion (11) of (7), it is not possible to use BACKto establish this inconsistency (incoherence), sinceBACK does not allow the conjunction of roles inthe ABox (cf.
Hoppe et al 1993, p. 5{)) which isof course needed in (10) (the conjunction of theroles Sister and Married).Example (10) is, of course, just beyond the bor-der of the permitted expressions, since it is inprinciple expressible but not allowed, and muchmore problematic (e.g.
for 'donkey' sentences) iscertainly the fact that variables are not explicitlyavailable in these representation languages.
Butit should indicate the lack in expressive power atleast inasmuch as it is possible without a moregeneral formal proof (which we cannot give herefor lack of space).
Since the correct disambiguat-ing inferences cannot be performed anymore if thetruth conditions of a discourse are boiled down ina way that allows to represent it (somehow) insuch a restricted assertional language, approacheswhich model exical disambiguation  the basis ofthese knowledge representation formalisms mustfail.Since an extension of the expressive power ofthe assertional languages would lead immediatelyto our original tractability problem, we have togive up the implicit assumption that lexical dis-ambiguation presupposes the consistency of thediscourse, if we don't want to give up lexical dis-ambiguation at all.
Thus, we end up in the thirdclass of approaches which provide us with fully ex-pressive languages to represent discourse and en-sure tractability by limited inferences.
In orderto see whether the requirements of soundness andcompleteness can be adequately weakend wehaveto study the inferences involved in lexical disam-biguation more carefully.4 Towards  Tractab le  Lex ica lDisambiguationTo limit inference is a well-known strategy em-ployed for knowledge retrieval (e.g.
Frisch andAllen 1982).
By using incomplete theorem proversit is certainly possible to ensure tractability, butincompleteness i  always a compromise which can7We assume Married to be a symmetric relation.982be a(:cet)ted as long as the prover computes the de-sired inferences completely (which is in fact hardto show).In contrast o knowledge retrieval where incom-pleteness is assumed for utility reasons, inferencesystems used for lexieal disambiguation have to beessentially incomplete.
Otherwise we wouht getwrong results.
In order to motivate our restric-tions we proceed in three steps.
In the first stepwe show that we need an incomplete (but souIld)inli?rence mechanism for lcxical disambiguation,since a complete mechanisin leads to wrong re-sults.
We st)ecify a class of inconsistency l)rooNwhich contains the disamt)iguating inferences as asubclass.
In the second step, we separate out thoseprooN which are in fact disamt)iguating and illus-trate in the last step tidal the discourse structureimposes further restrictions on the accessibility ofpremises.4.1 The Incompleteness  and  Dec idab i l i tyof Lexieally DisambiguatingI n fe rence  Mechanismsin order ~o develop our approach to lexical dis-ambiguation, we work successively through some.adequacy conditions which have to be.
satisfied byan adequate procedure.
According to the discus-sion in section 3 we have to assume a fully exl)res-sive language for the representation of discourse.Assuml)tion (I) is therefore as follows:(I) We have to assume a fully expressive lan-guage for the representation of texts.
Se-mantic representations of natural languagetexts in this language do in general not sat-isfy conditions which make them de<-idable(see e.g.
Rabin 1977 for standard condi-tions).To illustrate which kind of iimoinpleteness weneed, we assume that the meaning postulates andthe discourse can be e, xt)ressed in a first-order lan-guage without flmction symbols and identity.
Al-though we think that one needs a more expressivelanguage for an adequate representation of dis-course, and that very ofl;en nonmonotonic reason-ing is involved, the.
first,-order case seems neverthe-less representative, since we have to (teal with thedecidability problem.
Moreover, we expect thatdm methodology we used can be applied to moreexpressive discourse rel)resentadon hmguages in asimilar way.For our conceptual knowledge on the other handwe make the much stronger assumption (1I).
(H) Conceptual knowledge is represented by a fi-nite consistent and decidable set of meaningpostulates MP that does not contain logi-<:ally valid subsets of formulas, s8Since this condition is certainly not satisfed byour world knowledge, its integration in the disam-biguation process would he a much harder prohlem.Decidability of MP, i.e.
the decidability of MP ~- (/~for a given formula (/~, results fi'oIn the fact thatMP does not make any absolute existential claimon the entities in the world, especially on the, Jrcardinality.
9In order to be able to specify the incompletenessof our inference machinery in terms of a resolutionlogic, let us in the following assume that MP andthe discourse is given in Skolem conjunctive form(SCF).
I.e., as two uniw~'rsally quantified formulaswhose matrices are in conjunctive normal form.Let us fllrthermore assume that we wouhl knowthat the given discourse is consistent (we abstracthere first fi'orn the i)rohlem that this t)roperty isundecidable).
We were then able to determinethe m, satisfiahility of the discourse and MP byresolution.Let us take, for example, the set of clauses ob-tained fi'om the SCFs of the memfiilg postulate (7)aim the discourse (5) by the standard preparationpro<:edures.
If we abbreviate Physician by P, Sis-ter by S and Married by M and use clause set no-tation (each conjunct of the matrix is representedas dm set of its disjunctively connected litenJs)tt~e unsatisfiability of (5) and (7) can be shown,since there is a resolution refiltation depicted as arefills<ion tree in (l 2).
(12) {P(a)}{S(b, a)} {2kl(a, 1,)} {~S(V ,a:),~M(:r, y)}..,a)}\[\]The whole problem is now that despite of the de-(-idability of MP the lexical disamtfiguation prob-lem would still be undecidable if it wouhl pre-SUl)pose a consistent discourse.
Decidability ofthe lexical disamhiguation problem results nev-ertheless from the fact that lexical disambigua-don does not involve a complete understanding ofthe discom'se.
In order to illustrate that, let us'aBy checking several examples we found out thatthis t)rot)erty can I)e characterized model-theoreticallyas follows.
There is a finite set of (up to isomorphismunique) tinite models {M1, ..,Mu} of MP such thateach other finite model M~ of MP can successively bereduced to a model M G \[Mk\] by a chain of modelsM = M E -< M~ -< .. ~ M~.
~ of MP such that for eachpair of models /VI~ = (lal',%:i), M~ +1 = (L/i+1,53 :I+1}dmre is a (partial) isomorphism f from l, ti+l\bli inla # such that ,9~(R) is the set of tuples (at,.., a,,~)with (bl, .., b,,~) 6 c3:{+1 (R), and al = bl if bt C b?
i, andat = f(bt) if bt G U~+~\U ~, for every relation symbolR.
Since the infinite models of MP correspond tounions of infinite chains of such models (i.e.
MP is arather restricted W-theory), we can reduce the test ofM~.
p q~ tbr each model M~.
of Me to a test of Mk ~ (b.Thus, we can decide MP L- ~/) by checking M \[=- q5 forall models M E {M1, .., Mn}.
But note that this doesnot allow us to test whether q5 is valid or not.983consider the inconsistent lexically ambiguous sen-tences (13a,c) whose Sister" readings are expressedin English by (13b,d).
(13) (a) Es gibt keine Sehwestern, aber einige Arztehaben eine, mit der sic nieht verheiratetsind.
(b) There are no sisters at all, but some physi-cians have one to whom they are not mar-ried.
(c) Es gibt keine Schwestern, aber einige Arztehaben eine, mitder sie verheiratet sind.
(d) There are no sisters at all, but some physi-cians have one to whom they are married.Although it is possible to derive from the semanticrepresentations of (13a,c) a contradiction, theseproofs are by no means disambiguating inferences,since the meaning postulates are not involved.
Inorder to be able to explain by inconsistency proofswhy the Sister reading is excluded for (13c) butnot for (13a) one has to assume an incomplete in-ference system} ?
Otherwise the system would notwork correctly and would, of course, not necessar-ily terminate.
Thus, our third assumption is:(III) Lexical disambiguation is very often possiblealthough the discourse is inconsistent or itsconsistency is not known.What we are in fact looking for is a procedurewhich tests whether there is a consistent set ofinformation pieces of the discourse which contra-dicts MP.
In order to isolate tile consistent in-formation pieces provided by a (possibly inconsis-tent) discourse we use a discourse representation(and meaning postulates) in clause form.
Sinceeach single clause of such a representation mustbe satisfiable, we can identify the set of consistentinformation pieces provided by a discourse withthe set of clauses of the discourse in SCF.
On thebasis of this set we can then test whether there is aconsistent subset of these pieces which contradictsMP.
Take as an example the clause representationof (13a) and our meaning postulate (7) depictedin (14a,b).
(14) (a) {-,S(u,v)} {P(a)} {S(b,a)} {~M(a,b)}(b) {~S(y,x),-~M(x,y)} ..That the Sister reading is not excluded for (laa)is then explicable by the fact that there is noconsistent subset of clauses of (14a) which is in-consistent with MP.
What is consistently said inthe (inconsistent) discourse does not violate tilemFor the sake of simplicity we were confined toshort and simple examples and could therefore notavoid stone artificiality.
Moreover, an additional testbased on the procedure sketched in footnote 6 wouldcertainly exclude the Sister reading for (laa).
But itis, of course, easy to construct more realistic exampleswhere the inconsistency is much more hidden and doesnot affect the disambiguation.meaning postulates in this case.
In order to testthis kind of incompatibility we have to demandthat each resolution deduction starts with a clausefrom MP.
This restriction prevents the attempt oprove the inconsistency of the discourse alone (atleast if MP does not contain logically valid sub-sets of formulas that we assume and are able todecide).
It prevents us Dora proving the unsatis-fiability of (14a,b), but we can still show the in-consistency of the clause representation of (13c)and (14tl) as in (12).4.2 D isambiguat ing  In ferencesThe restriction introduced above is by no meanssufficient, since the proof procedure is not yet sen-sitive to the predicates representing the readingsof an ambiguous lexical item.
In order to illus-trate this insufficiency let us consider the Englishtranslation of tile Sister" reading of (4), repeatedin (15).
(15) Some physicians have a sister to whom they aremarried.If we also assume (7) for English then a contradic-tion would result although we did not regard 'sis-ter' as ambiguous (at least in our oversimplifiedlanguage domain), ttence, if (15) were embeddedin a larger discourse we would have no chance todisambiguate other ambiguous lexical items, sincewe would get a contradiction for every reading ofthese items.
That disambiguation is neverthelesspossible in many of those cases can be made ob-vious e.g.
by continuing (15) as in (16).
(16) Some physicians have a sister to whom theyare mm'ried.
Some of these sisters admire starswho got an Oscar.The disambiguation of the ambiguous item 'star'should make no problems, given we had the right;meaning postulates.
Thus, we have to assume:(IV) Lexical disambiguation is very often possi-ble although the discourse contradicts ourconceptual knowledge.In order to disambiguate properly we have t6consider only those consistent sets of informationpieces which contain at least one occurrence ofthe predicate that represents one reading of t, heambiguous lexical item.
Therefore we have to de-mand in addition that each resolution deductionstarts with a pair of clauses A E MP and B fromthe discourse representation where B contains anoccurrence of the predicate representing one read-ing of the ambiguous lexical item.
This preventsdisambiguating inferences for cases where there isno choice with respect o the interpretation of tilediscourse ('sister' has to be interpreted as Sisteralthough there is a contradiction).4.3 Ref lec t ing  D iscourse  S t ructureFor lexical disambiguation we assumed so far thatthe underlying inference machinery operates on984the set of consistent information pieces t)rovidedby the discourse.
This set was crucially dependenton what is said and not on what follows, sincewe were (especially in case of inconsistencies) notinterested in the set of all logical consequences ofa discourse.
Hence, our procedure already reflectsin a very weak sense the discourse structure, sincewe did not allow all conversions preserving logicalequivalence, but only those needed to constructan SCF froln the discourse.By converting the whole discourse into SCF wemade all consistent information pieces providedby the discourse accessible for lexical disambigua-tion.
Whether we need this entire set or justa rather limited subset of pieces which can bemade accessible by locally restricted conversionsinto SCF, is for a first-order discourse an empir-ical trot no formal problem.
But if we considerdiscourse representations in more expressive lan-guages (e.g.
the language of an intensional logic)it becomes cleat" that we have to make only thoseconsistent pieces accessible which result froln tlrst-order consequences of the discourse representa-tion.
Information in the scope of the intensionalverb in (17a) whose Sister reading is expressed inEnglish by (17b) is, for example, not accessible forlexical disambiguation.J 1(17) (a) Einige .Arzte versuchten ihre Schwestern zuheiraten.
(b) Some physicians tried to marry their sis-ters.Since we cannot get an SCF  of the first-order con-sequences of a (possibly inconsistent) discourserepresented in a more  expressive representationlanguage, it is necessary to find exactly those logi-cal equivalence preserving conversions which allowus to convert the discourse representation in sucha way  that the adequate set of consistent infor-mat ion  pieces can be made accessible for the dis-ambiguat ion  by locally restricted conversions intoSCF .
But  we  must,  of course, admit  l;hat furtherstudy is needed in order to be able to determinethese conversions.5 ConclusionLexical disambiguation is a procedure whichworks according to the communicative conventionto interpret he discourse as consistent as possible,if there is a choice.
It allows us to decide for twoalternative readings of the discourse which one isless contradictory to what is said consistently inthe discourse and to our conceptual knowledge.As the analysis of the examples in this paper hasshown, there is a striking similarity between lexi-cal disambiguation and anaphoric resohltion.
NotnMore complex examples can be found e.g.
inKalnp 1992, Kamp and Rofldeutseher 1994a,b.a complete understanding of the discourse is re-quired, but only an incomplete one that is re-stricted to a set of accessible consistent informa-tion pieces.
The only difference is that; lexical dis-ambiguation requires a little bit more understand-ing.AcknowledgmentsThanks to Ede Zimmerinann an(l Hans Kamp foruseflll discussions and to the anonymous reviewersfor (;oinulel/ts.ReferencesBollinger, T., S. Lorenz, art(1 U. Pletat.
1991.
TheLILOG Inference Engine.
ht O. Herzog and C.Rollinger, eds., ~/'(::ut Understanding in LILOG.Berlin: Springer.Doyle, J., and I{.
Patti.
1991.
Two Theses of Knowl-edge Representation: Language i{estrictions, Tax-onomic Classification, and the Utility of Represen-tation Services.
Artificial Intelligence 48, 261 297.bhisch, A., and J. Allen.
1982.
Knowledge Retrievalas Limited hfference.
In D. Loveland, ed., 6th Con-fcrence on Automated Deduction.
Berlin: Springer.tIoppc, T., C. Kindermam~, J. Quantz, A. Schmiedel,and M. Fischer.
1993. nA(:K V5 'lhltorial &: Manual.KIT.
l~eport 100.
TU Berlin.Kameyama, IVl., S. Peters, and H. Sehiitze.
1993.Combining Logic-Based and Corpus-Based Meth-ods for Resolving Translation Mismatches.
InWorking Notes: AAAI  Spring Symposium Series,Symposium "Building Lexicons for Machine Trans-lation", Stanfl)rd.Kamp, tt.
1992.
Disambiguation i  Discourse.
In IVl.Aurnague t al., eds., Semantics of Time, Spaceand Movement.
Working Papers on the 4th Inter-national Workshop, Chateau de Bonas, l~'anee.Kamp, H., and A. Rofldeutscher.
1994a.
Remarks onLexical Structure and DRS-Construction.
Theoret-ical Linguistics 20, 98 164.Kamp, H., and A. Rofldeutscher.
19941).
DRS-Construction and Lexically Driven hfference.
The-orctical Linguistics 20, 166 235.Kay, M., J. Gawron, and P. Norvig.
1994.
VERBMO-BIL: A Translation System for Face-to-Face Dialog.Stanford: CSLI Lecture Notes.McCord, M. 1989.
Design of LMT: A Prolog-B~usedMachine Translation System.
Computational Lin-guistics 15, 33--52.Nirenburg, S. 1989.
Knowledge-Bmqed Machine Trans-lation.
Machine ~l}-anslation 4, 5-24.Quantz, J., and B. Sehmitz.
1993.
Knowledge-BasedDisambiguation for Machine Translation.
Mindsand Machines.
Special Issue on 'Knowledge Repre-sentation for Natural I,anguage Processing'.Rabin~ M. 1977.
Decidable Theories.
In J.
Barwise,ed., Handbook of Mathematical Logic.
Amsterdam:North Holland.985
