DISTORTION OR IMPROVEMENT- Effects of information technology on the development of natural languagesOn some occasions during Colingconferences we should raise our gazefrom the hows of our trade to regard thewhys and whynots.Ever since the first Coling was arrangedand the term computational linguisticswas coined, our undertaking has hadtwo faces: research, where computationis used for better understanding oflanguage, and application, whereunderstanding of language is used forbetter computation.
It has been taken forgranted that practical effects, if any, arepositive.
In particular, it has been tacitlyassumed, the languages in use betweenhumans, what engineers ee as someunique next to metaphysical entity whichthey call "natural language" - in singular!- would be unaffected.
Is that really so?Of course, human/machine interactioncreates new genres: we adapt o whoeveror whatever is our interlocutor, that is awell-known feature of our  linguisticcompetence.
Whether or not they claimto be "NLP", machines typically behaveconspicuously differently than humansin communication, employing eithersome explicitly declared machinese orsome unspecif ied superset of someunspecified subset of some humanlanguage.
This fact will presumablyremain true in the next century.
Humansadapt  accord ing ly .
Themachinese-induced human habits willspread to human/human situations, andHans KarlgrenKvalSkeppsbron 26S-111 30 StockholmSweden+46 8 715 32 46 (voice)+46 8 715 36 75 (fax)karlgren @ sics.seI f  we do not yet have an answer, let us hope thatthe question is premature.more so as machines get better and morecentrally placed in the community.
-Besides, the dist inct ion betweenman/machine and man/man tends to beblurred as communicat ion becomesmachine-mediated to an increasingextent.
Will there remain any significantamount of writing, say a century fromnow, which is not at some step machine-supported?Which are the long-time effects ofexposure to machinese or machinese-likelanguage?
More consistent and lessambiguous use of terms and phrases?Greater clarity of sentence, discourseand argument structure?
And/or: Decayof finer shades of meaning, emotionalovertones and the social subtletiesbetween information and command,between "\[ tell you" and "I tell you to"?Damping of innovation, humour andirony?
Esthetic deterioration?Empirical evidence is scanty, of course.We are only at the beginning of abeginning.
Can we note more than mildtendencies towards tereotypisation a d,slightly more ominously, an increasingverbosity?In some fields we can sense the writers'anxiety to catch the eye of current poorre t r ieva l  sys tems.
Es tab l i shedformulations are preferred, particularlyin titles, to please not the reader but thecomputerised reader's digest.
Thus, in997some branches of legal informatics, theefforts made by today's writers to attracttomorrow's readers by paving the wayfor yesterday's retrieval technology hasa stultifying effect.We can also note how writersintentionally simplify their style to makeit amenable to existing unsophisticatedtranslation tools.
That has animpoverishing effect - not necessarilyworse, though, than the self-imposeddiscipline of writers mindful of humantranslators or non-native readers who areless familiar with the language used.Is the distortion of human language aphenomenon of a passing phase?
Willimproved language technology reducethe effects by narrowing the gapbetween human and machinecompetence?
Or rather promotemechanisation, making programmedagents more influential?
Are certainkinds of technological advancesparticularly urgent because of theirconsequences for human usage?
Or,conversely, are there particular featuresof artificial systems which we shouldrefrain from introducing because of suchside-effects even though they may becost-effective for their immediatepurposes?The impact on normal human behaviourmay be intended.Some countries the Scandinaviancountries being very clear examples -have a national anguage policy withrules and recommendations generallytaught and widely accepted, to promoteconsistency, clarity and continuitycombined with adequate doses ofmotivated changes.
Many privatecompanies,  publ ishing houses,newspapers and other organisationshave an elaborate house policy on styleof writing and speaking.
Typically, suchregulation refers to low linguistic levels:spelling, terminology, name forms,certain phrases and headings, documentlayout &c.One reason for the preoccupation witheditorial detail is the legislators' lack oflinguistic sophistication: they do notpossess the intellectual tools to describethe desired text properties, nor havelinguists, if consulted, so far had muchof substance to offer on higher levels ofstructure.The other reason is technical.
Rules onhigher level than spelling and vocabularyhave been hard to enforce.
Large-scalesupervision has not been feasible.
Weare just beginning to see non-trivialcomputational support alerting writersand editors of, e.g., provincialisms(such as Americanisms in BritishEnglish and vice versa), "Eurospeak"jargon in the European nationallanguages, he when women are meant obe included, high-brow words and stylewhen a broad audience is addressed.Now, as computational linguistics willprovide the intellectual and operationaltools it will be possible to specify andenforce style guides worth the name.If virtually all text is crunched throughthe same corporate, national or globalnetwork mill, norm adherence andstandardisation can be warranted on amany levels.
Exhaustive relevant in-depth real-time analyses will bepractically and economically justifiableon as large text flows as the populationcould possibly type or pronounce.Deviants can be automatically identified,commented upon, amended, returned,censored and/or punished (say, inexcusable cases, by some intentionaldelay).That sounds like a brave new world forthose who care about languagedevelopment.
When writer's supportand verification tools have gone farbeyond present myopic spellers andgrammar checkers, text production maybecome a controlled process, where theneeds for clarity, consistency, continuityand innovation are skillfully balanced byuniquely well-informed planners witheffective tools at their command to steerdevelopment along rational ines.
Willcomputational linguistics contribute to998enhancing human communication aboveanything we have so far imagined?And/or shall we expect a trend towardsconstrained languages in a morecontrolled society?Will computational linguistics play a keyrole in changing human languages andthe rules of the language gaines insociety?
If not in a decade or two, thenin a remote but conceivable future?As toohnakers, is it our duty to suggestopportunities and issue early warningsas well as to supply on demand?999
