A Computat iona l  Modelfor Generat ing Referring Expressionsin a Mult i l ingual  Appl icat ion DomainElena NotIRSTLoc.
Pant~, 1-38050 Povo - Trento, Italynot@irst.itc.itAbstractIn this paper we analyse the problemof generating referring expressions in amultilingnal generation system that pro-duces instructions on how to fill outpension forms.
The model we pro-pose is an implementation of the the-oretical investigations of Martin and isbased on a clear representation of theknowledge sources and choices that con-tribute to the identification of the mostappropriate linguistic expressions.
Tocope effectively with pronominalizationwe propose to augment the CenteringModel with mechanisms exploiting thediscourse structure.
At every stage ofthe referring expressions generation pro-cess issues raised by multilinguality areconsidered and dealt with by means ofrules customized with respect o the out-put language.1 In t roduct ionAn automatic generation system that is to pro-duce good quality texts has to include effectivealgorithms for choosing the linguistic expressionsreferring to the domain entities.
The expressionshave to allow the reader to easily identify the re-ferred objects, avoiding ambiguities and unwantedimplications.
They have to conform to the expec-tations of the reader according to his evolving flowof attention and they have to contribute to the co-hesion of the text.In this paper, we describe a component, devel-oped inside the GIST project 1, building referring1The GIST consortium includes academic and in-dustrial partners -IRST (Trento, Italy), ITRI (Uni-versity of Brighton, Great Britain), OFAI (Vienna,Austria), Quinary (Milano, Italy), Universidade Com-plutense de Madrid (Spain)- as well as two user groupscollaborating actively to the specification and evalua-tion of the system -INPS (the Italian National SecurityService) and the Autononm Province of Bolzano.expressions for automatically generated multilin-gum (English, German, Italian) instructions inthe pension domain.
The overall decision makingmechanism for the referring expressions choices isbased on the theoretical investigations of Martin(Martin, 1992), for which we propose a possibleimplementation.
The implemented model provedto be particularly suitable to work in a multilin-gum domain.
For the generation of pronouns wedefine an extension of the Centering Model ex-ploiting the contextual information provided bythe rhetorical structure of discourse (Not and Zan-canaro, 1996).At every stage of the referring expressions gen-eration process issues raised by multilinguality areconsidered and dealt with by means of rules cus-tomized with respect o the language.
In section2 we first present he results of observations madeon the corpus texts with the aim of identifying thetypical referring expressions occurring in our do-main.
Section 3 details the solutions implementedin the GIST system.
Specifications for the imple-mentation are given in terms of data structuresand required algorithms.2 Refer r ing  express ions  inmul t i l ingua l  pens ion  fo rmsOre" work on the specification for the referring ex-pressions component started from an analysis ofthe collected multilingual (English, German, Ital-ian) corpus of texts containing instructions on howto fill out pension forms.
From this study, a gen-eral typology of entities referred to in the domainemerged together with an indication of how suchentities are typically expressed in the different lan-guages (see figure 1).
The classification includes:Specif ic ent i t ies.
These are extensional entities:individuals or collections of individuals (plu-rals).
In KL-One knowledge representationlanguages they are represented as instancesin the A-box.Gener ic  ent i t ies .
These entities are intensionaldescriptions of classes of individuals andare often mentioned in administrative doc-848__ specificentitlesuniqueindividuals ~ retbrence (INPS, DSS)1_  variablereference (a benefit)unique< reference (the statesphmds in the EU)variablereference (some benefits)__ anchored f _cntiticsuniquereference (the applicant, the form)variable reference (one of applicant's previous jobs)- -  gener icentities (/,ousewives, widows)Figure 1: Types of entities referreduments, since the entities (persons or inan-imate objects) addressed in this kind of textsare not usually specific individuals in themind of the public administrator but ratherall the individuals that belong to a certainclass, as in the following example:( l) Married women should send their marriagecertificate.In K1,-()ne knowledge representation lan-guages generic entities are represented as con-cepts in the T-box.Anchored  ent i t ies .
These are entities that, al-though generic in nature, can be interpretedus specific whet, they are considered in thespecific communicative situation in which theactual applicant reads the instructions tocomplete the pension form he has in hishands.
Consider {br example the followingtext: "The applicant has to provide all the re-quested information".
In this situation, thespecific person who is reading the form in-stun,tares the generic applicant.
All the enti-ties directly related to the applicant or to theform itself can be considered anchored, as forexample: the applicant's name, the applican-t's spouse, any applicant's previous job, see-,ion 3 of the h) rm, .
.
.
.
The plausibility of thisanchoring operation is confirmed by the factthat the linguistic realization choices madefor anchored entities (definite tbrms, singularindefinite forms, .
.
. )
resemble very much thelinguistic choices made tbr specific entities.Further investigations on the corpus texts havebeen conducted to identify language-dependentreferring phenomena and general heuristics for thechoice of the most appropriate linguistic realiza-tion.
In general, we found that language style hasgreat influence on the realization choices.
Whenan informal style is used (like in most English doc-uments and in some recent Ital ian/German forms)the personal distance between the interlocutors(the citizen and the public institution) is reducedusing direct references to interlocutors, by meansof personal pronouns ("you", "we").
When thelanguage is more formal, impersonal forms or in-direct references are preferred ("the applicant","INPS", "DSS").Apart from style differences, there do exist alsodifferences in realization that depend on the out-put language.
For example, in administrativeforms, in full sentences, for entities anchored tothe reader English and German typically use pos-sessive noun phrases (like "your spouse") whereasItalian prefers simple definite forms (e.g.
"il cent-age" \[the spouse\]).3 The  adopted  approachThe linguistic expressions that refer in the text.
totile (tomain entities have to fulfill several proper-ties:?
they must allow the non-ambiguous iden-tification of the entities 2;?
they should avoid redundancies thatcould hamper lluency;?
they should contribute to the cohesionof the text by signaling semantic linksbetween portions of text;?
they should conform to the formMity andpoliteness requirements imposed to theoutput texts.When we choose to realize a referring expressionwith an anaphora we fulfill a double fnnction: weintroduce some form of economy for the reference,avoiding the repetition of a long linguistic expres-sion, and we enhance the coherence of the textsince we signal meaning relations (cohesive ties)between portions of the discourse.The choice of the correct referring expressiondepends on two major factors:(A) the cohesive ties that we want to signal toimprove the cohesion of the text;(B) the semantic features that allow the identi-fication of the object in the domain (distin-guishing semantic features).Another relevant factor is the pragmatic settingof the discourse (formality and politeness).To decide on (A), data structures are main-tained that keep track of the evolving textual con-text (discourse structure and focus history) andrecord the seato-cultural background of the reader2In some genres the use of ambiguous referencesmay be possible or desirable, for exantple in jokes, butin administrative g nre clearness and unambiguity arethe primary goals.849IDENTIFICATIONreference <~ generic eferenceanchored referencespecific reference_1 individual reference plural reference (- -  presentingpresuming 1~( assertingquestioningtotalpartial- -  variable referenceunique referencevariable referencenominal{pronominalinterlocutors (INPS / we the applicant / ~ou)non-interlocutors (Gianni Billia)pronominal (he~she) ~ proximate (this~these..)directed I--nominal -~  distant (that~those ..)t _  undirected (the..)Figure 2: How semantic features combine to identify the entity in the context(user model).
Inquiries on these data structuresare performed to verify whether the identity ofthe entity can be recovered from the context orwhether there exist semantic relations with othercited entities that; are worth being signaled (e.g.cotnparative r lations).Once the ties have been determined, the distin-guishing semantic features are identified.
Thesesemantic features depend on the entity type -whether generic, anchored or specific - and on therelationships between the entity and the context -whether the entity is new with respect o the con-text (presenting) or its identity can be recovered(presuming).
Figure 2 illustrates a fine graineddistinction of semantic features whose combina-tion specify how a referring expression can bebuilt.
This network of choices is an adaptation tothe GIST application domain of the results pre-sented in (Martin, 1992).
'\['he total/partial opposition is used to distin-guish references to sets of elements from referencesto portions of sets.
The linguistic form of the ex-pression also varies according to the type of speechact that is to be realized, and this justifies the as-serting~questioning distinction.Entities may be presented as new in the dis-course context hrough references composed by anominal expression or a pronoun (presenting).A presupposed element (presuming) may be-long to the cultural/social context, and thereforebe described with a unique reference, or it maybelong to the textual context.
The presuming-variable option corresponds to a textual anaphora.In this case a pronoun or a definite expressioncan be used.
In our system, pronominalizationis decided according to new rules extending theCentering Model, as explained in the followingsection 3.3.
Definite expressions are built select-ing the appropriate determiner (the, this, that .
.
.
)and the information (head, modifiers) to put inthe noun phrase.
This latter information is deter-mined through the algorithm explained in section3.2.3.1 The global algorithmThe submodule for the generation of referring ex-pressions is called during the final stage of thetext planning process, when the so called micro-planning (or sentence planning) takes place (Notand Pianta, 1995).
The global algorithm imple-mented has been derived from the network ofchoices presented above, as emerging from thecorpus analysis.
The formal approach adoptedproved to be particularly suitable to cope withmultilinguality issues, since the tests performed atthe various choice points can be easily customizedaccording to the output language.
The algorithmis activated on each object entity to be referredand accesses the following available contextual in-formation:Background - the cultural and social context ofthe reader.
At present his is represented by alist of all the entities the reader is supposed toknow (e.g.
the Department for Social Security,the anchored entities);850RT - the rhetorical tree, specifying how the se-lected content units will be organized in the finaltext and which are the semant.ic relations betweentext spans that will be signaled to enhance the co-herence;AlreadyMentioned - the history of Mready men-tioned entities;StylePars - the l)arameters that define l,he styleof the output  text,;FocusState - the state of the attention of tilereader, organized as (tetailed in section 3.3.To model the rhetorical structure of discoursewe consider the Rhetorical Structure Theory asdeveloped in (Mann and Thompson,  1!)87).
Ac-cording to this theory, each text can be seen asa sequence of clauses linked together by (seman-tic) relations.
These relations may be grammati -cMly, lexically or graphically signaled.
About 20such relations have t)een identified by (Mann andThompson,  t987), e.g.
I!\]I,AI~OH, ATION, whichoccurs when one clause provides more details fora topic presented in the previous clause, C()N~TI{AST which links two clauses describing similarsituations differing in few respects, and so on.llere follows a sketch of the globM algorithmimplemented (Not, 1995).
~\[b make the readingeasier, labels in italics have been introduced toidentify the steps of the algorithm correspondingto tile main choice points in figure 2.Prelimina.ry step:?
(For English) if e iv an anchored entity treat it asif it was a specific entity in Background?
(For Italian and German) if e is an anchored entityinside a concept descriptionthen treat it as a presenting of ~ generic entitywith a nominM expression (goto presenting-nominal-generic)else treat it as if it w;m a specific entity in Back-groundIll case :?
e is referred to in a title ~md is anchored to thereader(English, German) if *|'ormMity* ~ inlbrmMthen use a noun phrase with the possessiveadjective "your"else use a b;Lre nou\[\[ phrase(ItMian) use a bare noun phrase?
e is referred to in a title (but is not anchored tothe reader) or in a labeluse a bare noun phrase (singular or plural ac-cording to the nunlber of e)?
e C- AlreadyMentioned U Backgroundthen \[presuming\]: if e C Backgroundthen \[unique\]: if e is-a interlocutorthen \[interlocutor\]: if *formMity* = in-\[orma.lthen use a pronounMse;,use a proper noun (if it exists) ora definite descriptionelse \[non-interlocuto@(English, German) if *formality* =informal and e is anchored to thereaderthen use a noun phrase with the pos-sessive adjective "your"else use a proper name or a definitedescription(Italian) use a proper name or a deft-nite descriptionelse \[variable\]: attempt pronominalizationusing the algorithm described in section3.3 accessing FocusState and RT.
If e ispronominalizablethen \[pronominal\]: use a pronounelse \[nominal: build an anaphoric ex-pression.
Test FocusState to identifythe ntost appropriate determiner forthe noun phrase.
Compute the headand the modifiers using the algorithmdescribed in section 3.2.else \[presenting\]: if e stands for a generic person(collection of persons) without any specifi(:propertythen \[pronominal\]: use im indefinite pro-l !
.ounelse \[nominal: build a noun phrase, choos-ing the appropriate linguistic formIf e is a:- specific entity, build an indefinite sin-gular description or an indefinite plu-ral description according to the nutn-her of e- generic entity, in ease:* e is a concept whose meaning is be-ing defined by syntesis, use the baresingular term.
e is a concept 1)eing definedthrough a listing of its components,use a definite singular noun phrase.
e appears in a list inside a conceptdefinition,(German, Itdian) use a bare singu-lar or bare plural noun phrase(English) use a definite singular ordefinite plural noun phrase.
e is in a question, use a singularindefinite noun phrasee e is used in procedural descrip-tions,(Italian, German) use a definite phl-rM description.
(English) use a bare plural.3.2  Generat ing  nomina l  express ionsIn this section we focus on the choice of the headand the modifiers tbr noun phrases.
(Dale andReiter, 1995) contains the following list of require-ments for a referring expression to obey to Grice'sMaxims of conversational irnplicature:8511.
The referring expression should not in-clude unnecessary information (the Maxim ofQuantity).2.
The referring expression should only spec-ify properties that have some discriminatorypower (the Maxim of Relevance).3.
The referring expression should be short (theMaxim of Brevity).4.
The referring expression should use basic-level and other lexically preferred classeswhenever possible (Lexical Preference).l~equirement (4) suggests that the head of thenoun phrase should be chosen among terms ofcommon use or, more in general, among termsthat the user is likely to know.
In our domain,however, often technical terms can not be avoidedsince the precise type of document or legal re-quirement have to be specified.
Therefore, for thechoice of the head of non-anaphoric expressionsthe GIST system adopts the strategy of using themost specific superconcept of the entity that hasa meaningful lexical item associated (e.g.
the spe-cific term "decree absolute" is used instead of themore basic term "certificate").Requirements (1),..,(3) suggest hat the modi-fiers in the noun phrase should not introduce un-necessary information that can hamper the textfluency and yield false implications.
The task ofselecting the correct modifiers for a non-anaphoricexpression is not an easy task, since in the Knowl-edge Base attributive and distinguishing (restric-tive) properties are mixed.
In GIST, the se-mantic relations that are relevant in the defi-nition of distinguishing descriptions have beenidentified through an accurate domain analysis.For example, we have chosen relations like has-partnership, owned-by or attribute-of, characteriz-ing distinguishing descriptions like "the applican-t's spouse" or "the applicant's estate".When an anaphora occurs but a pronoun cannot be used, a nominal anaphoric expression isbuilt.
The head and the modifiers included in thenoun phrase have to allow the identification of theentity among all the ones active in the reader's at-tention (potential distractors).
In GIST we adoptan algorithm which is a simplified variation of theone Dale and l:teiter call the "Incremental Algo-rithm" (Dale and Reiter, 1995): whenever a newnominal anaphoric expression has to be built, dis-criminant modifiers are added to the expressionuntil the set of the potential distractors (contrastset) is reduced to an empty set.3.3 Generat ing  pronounsFor the generation of pronouns an extension to theCentering Model (Grosz et M., 1995) has been de-fined that captures how the rhetorical evolutionof the discourse influences the flow of attentionof the reader.
The choice of this solution hasemerged from the observation that anaphora playstwo roles in the discourse: it is not sufficient hat apronoun identifies unambiguously its referent butit has to reinforce the coherence of the text as well,supporting the user's expectations.In the Centering Model for each utterance U,~a list of forward looking centers, Cf(Un), made upof all the entities realized in the utterance, is asso-ciated.
This list is ordered according to the likeli-hood for the elements of being the primary focusof the following discourse.
The first element in thelist is called the preferred center, Cp(U,~).
Amongthe centers another significant entity is identified:the backward looking cen~er, Cb(Un).
This repre-sents the primary focus of Un and links the currentsentence with the previous discourse.The basic constraint on center ealization is for-mulated in the following rules:RULE 1 : If any element of Cf(U,~) is realizedby a pronoun in U,+I then the Cb(U,~+I) must berealized by a pronoun also.
(Grosz et al, 1995)RULE 1' : If an element in Cf(Un+I) is coref-erent with Cp(U,~) then it can be pronominalized.
(Kehler, 1993)These rules can be used to constrain pronominal-ization in the text generation process.The Centering Model was first conceived for En-glish, a language where pronouns are always madeexplicit.
But as soon as we consider languagesthat allow null pronominMization (like Italian)new extensions to the original model have to bedesigned in order to deal with pronouns with nophonetic ontent.
For Italian, we defined the fol-lowing rule (Not and Zancanaro, 1996) which iscompatible with the results of empirical researchpresented in (Di Eugenio, 1995):RULE 1" : If the Cb of the current utter-ance (Cb(U,,+I)) is the same as the Cp of theprevious utterance (Cp(U~)) then a null pronounshould be used.
If, instead, Cb(U,~+I) # Cp(U,~)and Cb(U,,+I) = Cb(U,~) then a strong pronounshould be used.3.3.1 The  proposed  extens ion  to theCenter ing  Mode lUnfortunately, the Centering Model does notcapture completely the reader's flow of attentionprocess ince it fails to give an account of the ex-pectations raised by the role the clause plays inthe discourse.
For example consider the followingsentences:(2) a.
If you are separated,b.
\[your spouse\]i should send us \[this part ofthe form\]j properly filled in.c.
\[They\]i should use \[the nclosed envelope\]k.d.
ek does not need a stamp.According to the Centering rules it would notbe possible to use a pronoun to realize ek sincethe main center of utterance d. (the envelope) is852different from the main center of utterance c. (thespouse).
But the use of a definite noun phrase torefer back to the envelope would sonnd rather oddto a native speaker.Itowever, the rhetorical structure of the text,providing information on the semantic links be-tween utterances, helps understanding how thecontent presentation progresses.
Therefore, weclaim that it can be used to explain exceptionsto the Centering rules and used to define repairingstrategies (Not and Zancanaro, 1996).
The advan-tage of this solution is that it allows us to treatwith a uniform approach different types of excep-tions that in literature are solved with separatedad-hoc solutions (e.g.
parallelism, empathy).For exa.inl)le, in (2) above sentence d. is anevident ELABORATION on the envelope that ap-pears in sentence .
When elaborating the de-scription of an object the focus of attention movesonto the objecL itself.
Therefore, the rhetorical re-lation that links e. and d. signals that among theelements in Cf(c) the envelope is the best can-didate to be the primary focus of the followingsentence d. This means that the rhetorical infor-mation ('an "project" the default ordering of theelements in /;he potential focus list Cf(c) onto anew order tha~ reflects more closely the contentprogression.From a computational point of view, the re-suiting algorithm h)r pronominalization can besketched as follows.
The reader's attentional stateis recorded in two stacks: the Centers tlistoryStack and the BackwaTq Centers Stack collect-ing respectively the Cf and the Cb of the alreadyproduced utterances.
Whenever a new utteranceis processed, the corresponding Cf and Cb arepushed on the top of the two stacks.
The Cf list isranked according to the default ranking strategy:clause theme > actor > benefic.> actee > otherspossibly modified by a "projection" imposed bythe rhetorical relation.
Rules 1' (for English andGerman) and Rule 1" (for Italian) arc then usedto decide wllethcr a pronoun ('an be used or not.4 Conc lus ionWe have presented the computational model im-plemented in the GIST system for referring ex-pressions generation.
The model is based on aclear distinction of the various knowledge sourcesthat come into play in the referring process andprovides an implementation tbrMartin's theoret-ical invesl~igatious.
An extension of the CenteringTheory has been proposed to deal with pronom-iualization effectively, exploiting the informationprovided by the discourse structure on how thereader's flow of attention progresses.
Issues ofmultilinguality are treated by ('ustomizing the se-lection rules according to the output language.5 AcknowledgmentsThe global approach to the generation ofanaphoric expressions presented in this paper, andin particular the treatment of pronominalization,has been developed together with Massimo Zan-canaro, whose help I gratefully acknowledge.ReferencesRobert Dale and Ehud Reiter.
1995.
Computa-tional Interpretations of the Gricean Maxims inthe Generation of Referring Expressions.
Cog-nitive Science, 19:233-263.Barbara Di Eugenio.
1995.
Centering in Italian.In Ellen Prince, Aravind Joshi, and Lyn Walker,editors, Centering in Discourse.
Oxford Univer-sity Press.Barbara J. Grosz, Aravind K. Joshi, and ScottWeinstein.
1995.
Centering: A Frameworkfor Modelling the Local Coherence of Discourse.Computational Linguistics, 21(2), June.Andrew Kehler.
1993. lntrasentential Constraintson Intersentential Anaphora in Centering The-ory.
In Proceedings of Workshop on Centering,University of Pennsylvania.William C. Mann and Sandra A. Thompson.1987.
Rhetorical Structure Theory: A Theoryof Text Organization.
In Livia Polanyi, editor,The Structure of Discourse.
Ablex PublishingCorporation.J.
R. Martin.
1992.
English Text.
System andStructure.
John Benjamins Publishing Com-pany.Elena Not and Emanuele Pianta.
1995.
Issues ofMultilinguality in the Automatic Generation ofAdministrative Instructional Texts.
In M. Goriand G. Soda, editors, Topics in Artificial ht-telligenee, Proceedings of the Fourth Congressof the Italian Association for Artificial Intelli-gence, Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence.Springer.
Also available as IRST Technical Re-port #9505-17, May 1995.Elena Not and Massimo Zancanaro.
1996.
Ex-ploiting the Discourse Structure for AnaphoraGeneration.
in Proceedings of the DiscourseAnaphora nd Anaphor Resolution Colloquium,DAARC96, Lancaster University, 17-18th July.Elena Not.
1995.
Specifications for the Refer-ring Expressions Component.
TechnicM ReportGIST LRE Project (062-09), Deliverable TSP-4, IRST, September.853
