LEXICAL ACCOMMODATION IN MACHINE-MEDIATEDINTERACTIONSLaurel FaisATR Interpreting Telecommunications Re earch Laboratories2-2 Hikaridai, Seika-cho Soraku-gunKyoto, Japan 619-02email: fais@itl.atr.co.jpAbstractWe report results of lexical accommodation studiesinvolving three different interpretation settings:human-human monolingual; human-interpretedbilingual; and machine-interpreted bilingual.
Wefound significant accommodation i  all threeconversational settings, with the highest rate in thehuman-interpreted s tting.
There is evidence for long-range mutual accommodation i that setting, ascompared to short-range accommodation i themachine-interpreted s tting.
Motivations discussed inthe accommodation literature, including speakers'concern for social standing and communicationalefficiency, are examined in the light of the resultsobtained.
Finally, we draw implications for thedesign of multimedia human-computer interfaces.1 IntroductionFor real-time, real-situation, human-computerinteraction to approach reality, the burden ofunderstanding and conveying information cannot beshared equally between the two interaetors.
Humansneed to make allowances for features of the computerinterface such as synthesized speech, limitations onrange of knowledge base, and imperfect speechrecognition.
However, in order for naive users toaccept and use computers effectively in an interactiveformat, the restrictions placed upon them need to be asminimal and as natural as possible.
Exploring thelinguistic behavior of humans interacting withcomputers in an unrestricted environment allows us todetermine how humans are natural ly inclined toaccommodate o the current limitations of human-machine interaction.
Encouraging those naturalinclinations in real human-machine systems will havea better chance of success than imposing artificialrestrictions.
In addition, systems designers can takeadvantage of the accommodations that humans makenaturally to improve the performance of their systems(Fais et al, 1995)Below, we will discuss a particular kind ofaccommodation in conversational interaction, amelylexical accommodation.
In lexical accommodation,one conversant adopts the lexical items used by theother conversant.
This type of accommodation is oneway in which users adapt to the limitations ofcomputer interfaces, i.e., they converge to the limitedlexicon of the computer.
Thus, it has importantimplications for the design of workable human-computer interfaces.
We discuss experiment resultsfrom three conversational settings: human-humanmonolingual; human-interpreted bilingual, andmachine-interpreted bilingual.1.1 BackgroundOf course, there is no a priori reason why interactorscould not conduct conversations in completelydifferent styles, using different phonologies, entencestructures, vocabulary, etc.
However, it has beenwidely demonstrated that they do not.
Lexicalaccommodation is only one instance of a diverse rangeof convergence behaviors that humans display inconversation.
Giles eta l .
(1987) cite studiesdemonstrating convergence of speech styles, dialect,non-verbal behavior, vocal intensity, prosody, speechrate and duration, and pause length.
Garrod andDoherty (1994) report on a study in whichconversational interactors in a language communityshowed a high level of convergence on a particulardescription language over the course of the task (amaze game).
Fais (1994a) discusses both lexical andsyntactic accommodation over a range of naturalconversational styles.Accommodation has also been shown to be presentin human-computer interactions.
Zoltan-Ford (1991)and Leiser (1989) demonstrate accommodation byusers to the phrasing and vocabulary of theconfirmation output of a computer in informationmanipulation and retrieval tasks.
Speakers alsounconsciously adapt their speaking behavior to thelimitations of a speech recognition system, asdemonstrated by Mellor and O'Connor (1995).But while the phenomenon of accommodation, bothbetween humans and between human and computer, isamply demonstrated, the motivations behind thephenomenon are less often discussed.
Those in thefield of human-computer interactions usually notesimply that accommodation exists.
They expressrelief when it is found to act as a natural constraint onthe user's vocabulary or syntax (e.g., Leiser, 1989;Zoltan-Ford, 1991), and distress when accommodationto the "natural speech" style of some computer outputencourages matching casual speech from the userwhich is difficult o process (e.g., Spitz et al, 1991).Speech Accommodation Theorists, who fall under abroad category which might be called socio-linguistics, tend to ascribe one of three motivations tospeakers who accommodate: "evoking listeners'social approval, attaining communicational efficiencybetween interactors, and maintaining positive socialidentities."
(Giles et al, 1987) p.t5).
Thesemotivations can be grouped into two major categories:concern with social standing and identity, and concern370with communicational efficiency.
2 Methods1.2 HypothesesSpecifically, then, if we base our predictions on thesestandard accounts in the literature, we should expectthe following results concerning both level anddirection of accommodation:?
In human-human i teraction, we should findsignificant lexical accommodation.
Because this isessentially an information-giving and -receiving task,we expect that the receiver of the information willaccommodate o the giver, adopting the lexical itemsused by the speaker who imparts information..
The human-interpreted setting constitutesboth a human-human i teraction and a more stressfulcommunicat ion environment, one in whichcommunicational efficiency is a concern.
For thatreason, we expect an even greater level ofaccommodation in the human-interpreted setting thanin the human-human setting.
In the human-interpreted setting, we examine the accommodationbetween client and interpreter.
The client isinibnnation receiver, and the interpreter is the imparterof information, not the originator; thus, neither clientnor interpreter is in a dominant role.
For this reason,we cannot predict whether the client will accommodateto the interpreter or vice versa.?
The machine-interpreted setting onlyindirectly involves human-human interaction; alldialogue is mediated by the "machine" interpreter.Therefore, we conjecture that interactors in this settingwill not be concerned with social standing.
On theother hand, this is the most difficult communicationenvironment of the three, involving as it does notonly the limited understanding of the machinetranslator but also limited speech recognition, adifficult-to-understand modulated speech signal, andrigid turn-taking constraints.
For this reason,communicational efficiency wi l l  be a concern.However, whether this will generate more or lessaccommodation than concern for social standinggenerates in the human-human case is an openquestion.Since users in the machine-interpreted s tting shouldnot be concerned with social standing, we mightpredict a lower rate of accommodation than in thehuman-interpreted setting.
However, again, thegreater difficulties in communication i  the machine-interpreted setting might make up for a lack ofconcern with social standing, resulting in a rate ofaccommodation comparable to that in the human-interpreted setting.
Results discussed below will shedsome light on the interaction of these two factors., We expect hat clients will accommodate othe machine to some extent, that clients' word choicewill be affected by their perception of "what works,"or "what the machine knows."
Given this possibility,then, we predict that the results will show clientaccommodation to the machine-interpreter, but at alower level than in the human-interpreted s tting.We conducted three experiments o evaluate lexicalaccommodation in various interpretation settings.
Inthe first experiment, native English-speaking subjectsacting as "clients" were instructed that their task wasto get directions to the site of a conference they were"attending" by engaging in a cooperative dialoguewith a native English-speaking "conference agents.
"Their interaction was humml-human.
In two other,similar experiments, English-speaking clientsinteracted with Japanese-speaking agents, both to getdirections and to make hotel reservations.
In one ofthese experiments, peech was translated by humaninterpreters; in the other, by a simulated automaticmachine translation system ('Ngizard of Oz" style; see(Fais, 1994b) and (Fais et al, 1995) for further detailsof these two experiments).
We will refer to this lattersetting as the "machine-interpreted" setting; keep inmind, however, that translation was actually done bytrained interpreters mimicking a computer-basedsystem.1 The experimental configurations are shownin Figure 1.2.1 MeasuresLexical Accommodat ion:  We measured lexicalaccommodation by exmnining the number of lexicalitems which were used by both interaetors in thecourse of a conversation.
The accommodation rate foreach conversation in the three experiments wascalculated by dividing the number of (different) lexicalitems the two speakers had in common by the totalnumber of (different) lexical items in the conversation.We calculated lexical accommodation rates for clientand agent in the same-language, human-humanexperiment setting; for client and (Japanese-to-English) interpreter in the human-interpretedexperiment setting; and for client and (Japanese4o-English) "Wizard" interpreter in the machine-interpreted experiment setting.
Although the actualmeasurement of lexical items was done for theEnglish speech of the Japanese-to-English interpreters,these interactors in the conversation will be referred tobelow as "agents," to conform to the human-humansetting in which we assessed the lexicalaccommodation f the agents directly.Direction of Accommodation: Accommodationis not necessarily a mutual phenomenon (Giles,1987).
In order to determine if one conversant wasaccommodating more than the other, we examined thenumber of words used first by the client and thenumber used first by the agent.
We reasoned that thesubject who used a particular lexical1At no time did any subject doubt that he/she wasinteracting with an actual machine translator.In each experiment, subjects interacted in two modes:via a standard telephone, and via a computer-based,multimedia environment in which subjects could interactby voice, text, and drawing (Loken-Kim et al, 1993).The results discussed below did not differ for these twomodes; thus, we will not distinguish them here.371Eng glishagent c.entHtm~an-human settingInterpreterHuman-interpreted experimentitem first was not accommodating, and, by extension,then, the subject who did not use an item first, wasaccommodating.The following objection to this definition might bemade: the fact that interactors use words that theirpartners have used does not necessarily mean that theyare accommodating to the other's prior use of thatword.
But what other justification could there be forsaying that accommodation is taking place?
Becauseeven lexical accommodation is rarely a conscious act,speakers' intuitive judgments are not helpful.
On theother hand, there is no other external evidenceavailable.
Thus, we will use the quantitative criteriondescribed above.
We will argue that accommodationis a real phenomenon i dialogue; it follows, then,that at least some of the instances in whichconversants use lexical items previously used by theirpartners are instances of accommodation.Re la t ive  Impor tance  o f  Words - in -Common:  We also looked beyond the initial use oflexical items to determine what role was played insubsequent conversation by the words that agent andclient both used.
That is, once one conversantaccommodates to the other by adopting a lexical item,does that conversant continue to use that lexical itemin a significant way in the remainder of theconversation?
In order to explore this question, weestimated the percent of usage for each worddn-common, for both client and agent.
That is, for eachword-in-common, we divided the number of timeseach subject used the word by the total number ofwords uttered by that subject in order to determinewhat proportion of the subject's conversationconsisted of the uses of that word.
By comparingthese proportions for the roles of client and agent, weascertained the relative frequency of the word for eachrole, giving us some idea of the "importance" of theword for that role.Coinc identa l  Over lap:  Of course, a certainamount of lexical overlap is inevitable as a simpleartifact of cooperative conversation.
In order toiMachine-interpreted experimentI I LMJE/itzlish/61ientFigure 1.
Speech and visual data configurations foreach experiment.
Computers were used only in themultimedia condition.
Telephones replacedheadphones in the telephone condition.
Subjectscould not see one another or the interpreter/Wizards.determine file extent of coincidental overlap, wemeasured the lexical overlap in the speech of clientsand agents from the first experiment who had notparticipated in the experiment together.
That is, thespeech of clients who had participated in theexperiment with Agent A was compared with thespeech of Agent B.
Likewise, the speech of clientswho had participated in the experiment with Agent Bwas compared with the speech of Agent A. Becausethese conversants were not talking to one another, thelexical overlap in their speech could not be a result ofaccommodation to one another.
However, because theoverlap was calculated for speakers engaging incooperative dialogues concerned with the same taskand via the same media, it reflects the extent o whichoverlap occurs simply because these are speakers insimilar situations talking about similar topics.3 Resu l ts3.1 Lexical Accommodat ion.4.35 .~.3.25(9(9 .2~d 15O9m .05oFigure 2.
Rates of accommodation for coincidentaloverlap and all three settings.372Table 1.
Significance levels for differences in lexical accommodation (two-way ANOVA).Coincidental overlapHuman-humanIhlman-interpretedhuman-human human-interpreted machine-inte~re~dp<.03 p<.0001 p<.001p<.00m P<.0?p<.01"\[%e rates for lexical accommodation for all threeexperiments were significantly different from the levelestablished for coincidental lexical overlap (Figure 2,Table 1; data were subjected to two-way analyses ofvariance).
In addition, the lexical accommodationrates for each experiment also differed significantlyfrom those for each of the other two experiments.Human-human accommodation was higher thancoincidental overlap, but lower than both of theinterpreted settings.
The human-interpreted settinghad the highest rate of accommodation.3.2 Direct ion of  Accommodat ionWhen we examined the percentage of words-in-common used first by each role (agent or client), thefollowing patterns emerged (Figure 3; data weresubjected to three-way analyses of variance).
In thehmnan-human setting the agent used a significantlyhigher percentage of words first (p<.03); the clientaccommodated to the agent.
In the human-interpretedsetting, there was no difference.
It is not possible tosay that one or the other interlocutor was responsiblefor the accommodation found.
In the machine-interpreted setting, the agent used a significantlyhigher percentage of words first (p<.005); the clientaccommodated to the agent.6O50~: 40"~ 3O ?2O10--1 AgentClient - -i~g,~?i~- -- - ...........
i!!~i!!!ii~i!~!~i!
!i :::::::::::::::::::::::i~iiiiii~i/i;:i:::.
~!iii~ ~ i~Ji~,~.~~iiiiiiiiiiiiNiiHumaniiii==iiiii~{!ii%H-interp.. .
.
.
:~ , .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.~ ~ !~ ~J~:-:: i}ii  # {ziiii::::::::::::::::::::::M-interp.Figure 3.
Percent of first use of words-in-common foragent and client in each setting.3.3 Re lat ive  Impor tance  o f  Words - in -commonAn examination of the use of each word-in-commonwith respect o overall word use for client and agent,i.e., the word's "importance," showed the followingresults (Figure 4; three-way ANOVA).
In the human-human setting, client use of words-in-common madeup a significantly greater percent of total word usethan agent use of these words (p<.0003).
There wasno significant difference between client and agent inthe hnman-interpreted setting or in the machine-interpreted setting.1.6?1.4=1.2o 1'S .8cD c~ .4.20I-'1 Client\ [ \ ]  AgentHuman H-interp.
M-interp.Figure 4.
Frequency of use of words-in-common foragent and client in each setting.4 D iscuss ionWe analyzed lexical accommodation i  a variety ofinteractions in order to determine how accommodationcan be expected to operate in a machine-interpretedcontext, and learn ways in which to support lexicalaccommodation i the design of human-machineinterfaces.
It is encouraging that lexicalaccommodation happens spontaneously.
As ourinitial results show, it is not simply a coincidentalbyproduct of conversing about common topics.
Thereis a significant difference between that case (what wehave called "coincidental overlap") and the case of twopeople talking about the same topic to one  another .While lexical accommodation has been shown fortyped human-computer interactions (Leiser, 1989), andlexical and structural accommodation has beendemonstrated for typed and spoken human-computerinteractions in constrained contexts (Zoltan-Ford,1991), these results demonstrate lexicalaccommodation for unconstrained, spoken, machine-mediated human-human interactions.
Given thatlexical accommodation is a "real" phenomenon, then,how can we characterize the patterns ofaccommodation for each experimental setting, andwhat can we learn from them?In the human-human setting, there was a non-trivial, but low level of accommodation.
The clientaccommodated to the agent, using the words-in-common more frequently in subsequent conversationthan did the agent.
This is consistent with theinterpretation that the agent acted as information-provider and the client acted as information-receiver ina non-stressful communication environment, as ourinitial hypothesis stated.
The interactors maintained alevel of accommodation high enough to satisfy their373concern for social standing, but since they were nativespeakers of the same language and the communicationchannel was clear and direct, they had minimal concernfor communicational efficiency.
There was noincentive to extend lexical accommodation.On the other hand, the human-interpreted settingpresented a more difficult communication e vironmentin which concern for communicational efficiency waspresent.
Since the interaction was also human-human, social standing continued to be a concern.
Weexpected that the addition of the concern for efficiencyto that for social position would result in a higherlevel of accommodation; in fact, the level ofaccommodation bserved in the human-interpretedsetting was the highest in all three experimentalsettings.More specifically, the human-interpreted settinginvolved speakers from two different languagebackgrounds, both of whom were capable ofrecognizing the differences in their linguisticbehaviors, and of reducing those differences tofacilitate communication.
Lexical choice is a surfacelevel phenomenon, open to manipulation.
Thus,lexical accommodation is an important conversationalstrategy for speakers who do not share linguisticconventions.
The interpreters in the human-interpreted setting were native speakers of Japanese,and, though they were fluent in English, the range ofoverlap between their English linguistic habits andthose of the native English-speaking clients was muchsmaller than that between two native speakers.Lexical choice was an obvious strategy forestablishing shared linguistic behavior, and thuspromoting effective communication.
So, concern forsocial standing and communicative fficiencycombined to generate a high rate of mutualaccommodation.Because neither client nor interpreter had a dominantrole in the conversation, we could not predict thedirection of accommodation.
In fact, our results howthat it was not possible to single out a primaryaccommodator in the human-interpreted s tting, eitherin terms of proportion of words used first or thefrequency with which words-in-common were used.Does this mean that both speakers accommodated orthat neither did?
Considering the high accommodationrates for this setting (Figure 1), we conclude that, infact, both client and agent were accommodating to oneanother.In the machine-interpreted s tting, we saw a rate ofaccommodation higher than that of the human-humansetting, but lower than that of the human-interpretedsetting, as expected.
The machine-interpreted s ttingis an even more stressful communication e vironmentthan the human-interpreted setting; concern forcommunicational efficiency resulted in a higher levelof accommodation than concern for social standing didin the human-human setting.
However, we do notexpect humans to be concerned about their socialstanding with a machine, unlike in the human-interpreted setting.
This explains why the rate forlexical accommodation i  the machine-interpretedsetting is lower than that of the human-interpretedsetting.
The greater concern for communicationalefficiency in the machine-interpreted s tting was notenough to generate as high a level of accommodationas that found in the human-interpreted s tting, wherethere was the additional factor of concern for socialposition, though it did generate a higher level ofaccommodation than did concern for social standingalone (the human-human setting).As we conjectured above, clients accommodated tothe machine as part of a strategy for effectivecommunication.
However, given the fact that therewas a lower rate of accommodation than in thehuman-interpreted setting, coupled with the strongdirectionality observed, we conclude that this is not acase of mutual accommodation.
Instead, as in thehuman-human setting, clients were the primaryaccommodators.
Clients in the machine-interpretedsetting may have perceived the machine to be in thedominant role, just as the agent played the dominantrole in the human-human setting.Recall that clients in the machine-interpretedsetting, unlike those in the human-interpreted s tting,did not use words-in-common more than the agent didin subsequent conversation.
Since clients were notconcerned with social standing, including establishingmutual inguistic conventions, accommodation in themachine-interpreted s tting was a local phenomenonwhich did not extend throughout the conversation.5 Conclusions and Future DirectionsWhat does this tell us about the design of human-computer interfaces?
Recall that these conversationswere unconstrained; neither agents, clients norinterpreters, whether human or "machine," were underinstructions to limit or modify their speech in anyway.
Thus, what we see in these results is the naturaltendency of humans to accommodate to theirinterlocutors in a variety of communicationenvironments.
This tendency resulted in the highestlevel of accommodation i  the human-interpretedsetting.
That level was achieved as a result of mutualaccommodation between the two humans involved,both of whom felt a concern for both social standingand communicational efficiency.
The level ofaccommodation bserved in the machine-interpretedsetting was both lower and less extensive, i.e., it didnot persist hroughout the conversation.We can take advantage of even the moderately highlevel of accommodation found in the machine-mediated setting by building into a languageprocessing system a preference for the lexical itemsused by the machine.
Coupled with accommodationsin other aspects of language such as discourse andsyntactic omplexity, fluency, and speaking rate (Faiset al, in press), lexical accommodation can inform alanguage model to improve language processingperformance by exploiting the relationships betweenhuman speech and the speech of the machine interface.Specifically, candidates for speech recognition orparsing could receive higher preference scores if theyinclude lexical items or structures previouslyencountered in the discourse.
Alternatively,374preferences based on accommodation could be builtdirectly into a language model for speech recognitionor decision tree for parsing.We would like to investigate the possibility ofincreasing the level of accommodation in the machine~mediated setting.
Ideally, we would like users'accommodation to a machine interface to be as high aspossible so that the lexical variability of users' speechcan be as constrained as possible.
One way is to usethe resources of a multimedia environment toreplicatethe effect of the human-interpreted setting byproviding the machine interface with a human-likepersona.
A number of human-computer systemsalready include such a feature (e.g., Ball and Ling,1995; Bertenstam et al, 1995; Webber, 1995); itremains to be seen if it will have the desired effect onlexical accommodation.
On the other hand, there isevidence that encouraging users to interact withmachines as if they were humans may actuallyundermine the quality of the users' speech from thepoint of view of language processing.
Work in thearea of disfluencies in human-to-machine speechsuggests that humans do, in fact, "clean up" theirspeech for machines (Suhm et al, 1994).
Theseadvantages may be lost if humans are encouraged totreat a machine interface as if it were human.Empirical investigation is required to determine if anoptimal balance can be reached.We have suggested that the design of speechrecognition and language processing systems can takeadvantage ofusers' lexical accommodation to machineinterfaces to improve system performance.
This, inturn, would allow the construction of systems whichmake fewer demands on the willingness of users toadjust o misrecognitions and nfisunderstandings, andwhich encourage users to interact with computerinterpreters as if they were interacting with humaninterpreters.
This result would also have the effect offurther increasing lexical accommodation from users.AcknowledgmentsThe author would like to thank Kyung-ho Loken-Kim, Yoshinori Ohkubo, and Tsuyoshi Morimoto fortheir encouragement, help, and support.ReferencesBall, J. Eugene, and Daniel T. Ling.
1995.Spoken language processing in the PersonaConversational Assistant.
In Proceedings of theESCA Workshop on Spoken Dialogue Systems,pages 109-112, Vigs0, Denmark, May-June.Bertenstam, Johan, et al 1995.
Tim Waxholmsystem: A progress report.
In Proceedings of theESCA Workshop on Spoken Dialogue Systems,pages 81-84, Vigs0, Denmark, May-June.Fais, Laurel.
1994a.
Conversation ascollaboration: Some syntactic evidence.
SpeechCommunication, 15:231-242.Fais, Laurel.
1994b.
Effects of communicativemode on spontaneous English speech.
TechnicalReport of the Institute of Electronics, Information andCommunication E gineers, NLC94-22(1994-10): 1-8.Fais, Laurel, Kyung-ho Loken-Kim, and TsuyoshiMorimoto.
(in press) Linguistic and para-linguisticdifferences between multimodal and telephone-onlydialogues in English and Japanese.
J. AcousticalSociety of Japan (E), (in press).Fais, Laurel, Kyung-ho Loken-Kim, and Young-Duk Park.
1995.
Speakers' responses to requests forrepetition in a multimedia cooperative dialogue.
InProceedings of the International Conference onCooperative Multimodal Communication, pages 129-144, Eindhoven, The Netherlands, May.Garrod, Simon, and Gwyneth Doherty.
1994.Conversation, coordination, and convention: Anempirical investigation of how groups establishlinguistic onventions.
Cognition, 53:181-215.Giles, Howard, Anthony Mulac, James J. Bradac,and Patricia Johnson.
1987.
Speech accomtnodationtheory: The first decade and beyond, ill M.L.McLaughlin, editor, Communication Yearbook 10,pages 13-48.
Sage Publications, London, UK.Leiscr, R.G.
1989.
Exploiting convergence toimprove natural language understanding.
Interactingwith Computers: The Interdisciplina<y Journal ofHuman-Computer Interaction, 1(3):284-298.Loken-Kim, Kyung-ho, Fumihiro Yato, KazuhikoKurihara, Laurel Fais, and Ryo Furukawa.
1993.ATR Technical Report TR-IT-0018.
ATR InterpretingTelecommunications Research Laboratories, Kyoto,Japan.Mellor, Brian, and Cian O'Connor.
1995.
Useradaptation tovoice input interfaces.
In Proceedings ofthe ESCA Workshop on Spoken Dialogue Systems,pages 97-100, Vigs0, Denmark, May-June.Spitz, Judith.
1991.
Collection and analysis ofdata from real users: hnplications for speechrecognition/understanding systems.
In Proceedings ofthe 4th Darpa Workshop on Speech and NaturalLanguage, pages 164-169, Asilomar, California,USA, February.Suhm, B., L. Levin, N. Coccaro, J. Carbonell, K.Horiguchi, R. Isotani, A. Lavie, L. Mayfield, C. P.Ros6, C. Van Ess-Dykema, and A. Waibel.
1994.Speech-language integration i a multi-lingual speechtranslation system.
In Proceedings of the AAAIWorkshop on Speech and Language Processing,Seattle, Washington, USA.Webber, Bonnie.
1995.
Instructing animatedagents: Viewing language in behavioral terms.
InProceedings of the International Conference onCooperative Multimodal Communication, pages 5-15, Eindhoven, The Netherlands, May.Zoltan-Ford, Elizabeth.
1991.
How to get peopleto say and type what computers can understand.International Journal of Man-Machine Studies,34:527-547.375
