CALL: THE POTENTIAL OF LINGWARE AND THEUSE OF EMPIRICAL LINGUISTIC DATADan TuftsRomanian Academy & Research Institute for Informatics13, "13 Septembrie", 74311, Bucharest 5, ROe-mail :tufts @ u I .ici.roLanguage technology has significantly evolvedduring the last decade.
However, the community oflanguage learning seems to ignore this development,most of the existing language learning systemsdrawing their enhancements from other sources, suchas hypertext, nmltimedia, interactive video,information retrieval.
Despite some spectacuhuprogress made at the level of interface, severalfundamental language learning principles, are onlypartially met.
Nevertheless, the hypermediatechnology did solve one very important aspect ofcomputer-assisted l arning by putting the student in avisual environment.
Minimizing cultural differencesthey've been able to draw on shared backgroundknowledge (microworld immersiveness).
Otherimportant aspects of typical immersion-basedapproaches, i.e.
natural learning, such as mixed-initiative, fault-tolerance, dialogue repair,cooperative behaviour, etc.
are still in their infancy.In real settings learners freely interact with theirenvironment (parents, tutors), taking turns, asking forexplanations, shifting topics, etc.
The languageproduced by the learner is more often than notagrammatical, yet this does not prevent he tutor toproceed with the dialog.
Error correction is usuallydone contextually, by drawing either explicitlyattention to the deviation, by producing a similar butcorrect sentence, or by simply ignoring the mistakeleaving its correction for later.There are many AI and CL programs olving variousspecific CALL-relevant problems.
If assembledproperly, these pieces could result in very powerfullanguage learning systems.Lexical thesauri Since word acquisition is a crucialpart of language learning, a thesaurus such asWordNet is practically a must in a broader CALLsystem.
Such a tool could provide, lists of syno-nyms, antonyms, hyper/hyponyms, meronyms andcontexts in which these words are used.Parsers While finding a freeware parser is not aproblem anymore (if you don't know where to gethold of one, --just send me an e-mail,-- we havedeveloped ifferent parsers), it is no easy to find theright kind of grammar for teaching purposes.
Such agrammar should have at least the following qualities:parsing the student's input it should be error tolerantyet having a broad enough coverage for being usefulboth for beginners and for advanced students.
Inorder to deal with the student's errors in a principledway, the grammar should anticipate typical errorsand annotate them for automatic recovery andexplanation generation.
While introspection andobservation are a first step in determining typicalerrors, data gathered in a corpus are a nmch morereliable approach.
Corpus linguistics has become elvery promising and active area of investigation.However, few corpora (if any) have been gatheredwith respect o register.
Such corpora should containamong other things: native tongue of the speaker, thecomplexity of the text under consideration;error/correction markup, etc.Generators In order to communicate with thestudent, the CALL system should be able to producenatural anguage output.
It is debatable whether thesystem should communicate with the student only inthe target language, or, whether under specificcircumstances ( uch as error correction mode) itshould also be able to generate texts also in thestudent's mother tongue.
Such a pedagogical decisionhas of course important consequences on thesystem's architecture: a bilingual approach, requiringseveral components of a MT system.
Again, there areseveral NL generators (most of them head-driven)available in the public domain.Semantic interpreters/generators Unlike theprevious modules, the one in charge of the bidirec-tional mapping of the syntactic structures onto theknowledge structures of the microworld, is verysensitive to factors such as discourse universe,tutorial strategies, tudent profile etc.
That's why it isnot easy to find a ready made plug-in module forCALL systems.
Yet, there are several genericprograms that support he contextual interpretation fthe student's input (linguistic or graphical), trackinghis/her goals and providing cooperative responses.Intelligent planners (linear or nonlinear) could beused in plan-based tutorials, with the microworldsdefining the possible limits of departure from theexpectation-based tutorial phms.
User modelling sub-systems, tuned to the language learning problemscould provide valuable support in dealing withnotorious difficult problems (discovering student'smisconceptions, tailoring explanations to the level ofthe student's expertise, tc.
)Speech synthesizers and prosody processorsSpeech technology is definitely a valuable candidatei010for CALL tools.
In spite of the current gap betweenspeech technology and natural language processing,language learning is a very promising area where tiletwo fields could meet One could easily imagine ascenario where the student is asked to utter a word ora sentence, which are then compared and correctedagainst the tutor's pronunciation.
With a graphicalrepresentation of the two pronunciations (waveform,pitch, duration etc.)
and a means to operate on them(e.g.
mouse dragging the waveform, followed by thesynthesized result) the pedagogical value and useracceptability of a CALL system would certainly begreatly enhanced.i011
