Const ruct ing  Verb  Semant ic  C lasses  for French: Methods  andEva luat ionPatrick Saint-DizierIRIT-CNRS118 route de Narbonnc F-31062 3bulouse Cedex Frances td iz ie r@i r i% .frAbst rac tIn this paper, we study a reformulation,which is better adapted to NLP, of thealternation system developed for Englishby B. Levin.
We have studied a set of1700 verbs from which we explain howverb semantic classes can be built in asystematic way.
The quality of the re-sults w.r.t, semantic hLssifications suchas WordNet is then evaluated.1 AimsPredicative forms are complex to describe; it isindeed necessary to describe in detail their symtactic behavior, the different meanings they mayconvey, preferably at different levels of granular-ity (e.g.
argument structure, thematic grids, con-ceptual representations (aackendofr 90)), and therelations between syntactic forms and meaning(s)(Levin 93), (Williams 94).
It is also important ohierarchically organize these predicative forms sothat syntactic and semantic descriptions are min-imal and coherent.Our work focusses on verbs and is primltrilybased on B. Levin's work (Levin 93) for English,where she shows that, the syntactic behavior ofverbs is in a large part predictable from some as-pects of their semantics.
13y syntactic behavior,she means the way arguments are syntacticallyrealized with respect to the predicate.
This in-cludes the description of the basic distrihution ofthe arguments, the description of the other posi-tions they may occupy (e.g.
ergative and passiveforms) and when they can be conjoined or deleted.These descriptions are called alternations.
Thiswork results in the creation of organized w'.rb st-mantic classes, mainly based on their syntactic lm-havior (alternations may also include specific se-mantic restrictions).
It is an extremely usefifi anddetailed study of the syntactico-semantic relationsbetween a predicate and its arguments.We show here how the alternation system canbe reformulated in a more Nl,P-oriented way,and develop for French a set of syntactic descrip-tions, called contexts, which sh~re many simi-larities with alternations, and propose principlesthat help defining their form and contents.
Next,we show how verb semantic classes can be con-structed in a systematic way and evaluate themw.r.t.
WordNet-like classifications.
The implicitsemantic conveyed by contexts is also analysed.The work presented here is applied to French, butcan be transposed to other languages.2 The context system2.1 Genera l  approach  and  mot ivat ionsWe.
have refornmlated Beth Levin's notion of al-ternation into a more declarative one: the notionof context.
A context is a Dame where the cate-gory and some additional syntactic is used to de-scribe a precise form and position the argmneutsof a verb may have in a sentence.
Verb classesare then formed from verbs having similar sets ofcontexts .Very briefly, compared to the alternation sys-tem, our approach avoids having to detlne a basicform from which alternations are produced and tohave to explain what is the relation between a ba-sic and an alternated form.
Moreover, it avoids usto have to account for changes in meaning provo-qued by alternations (e.g.
by the adjunction of apreposition).l)etining contexts has led us to formulate a fewprinciples:+ contexts should be of general purpose, thismeans that: exceptional forms should beavoided, only non-mnbiguous and easy-to-useforms are acceptable, and theory-neutral de-scriptions hould be used.- c.ontexts hould minimally overlapp,?
they must only describe lexical properties;the scope of a context is nsuMly a proposLtion?
as less semantic data as possible should bcused, otherwise the classification will also bebased on semantic riteria,1127?
the exact level of granularity of a contextshould be defined by feedback and retro-evaluation on verbs,?
consider generalizing two contexts into one, iftheir discriminatory power is low.These principles allow us to partly automate thedetermination those of contexts which can be asso-ciated with a given verb (for example by corporainspection).
However, there will always remainquite a lot of manual work to check and improvethe results, in spite of some promising research inthis direction (Dorr et al 95a).As shall be seen below, the context system(which is not really a new concept) provides uswith a very powerful tool for specifying and or-ganizing the syntax and the semantics of verbs.Our contribution at this level is the way a contextis defined, at what level of generality, with whatformal means, and the way contexts are used toform verb classes.From a methodological point of view, contextsfor French have been defined from a transposi-tion of some English alternations (about 1/3 ofour contexts), from French syntactic descriptions,among which (Gross 75), from corpora and fromour own intuitions of language.
Context cover-age has then been validated on corpora to ensurethat we cover most of the syntactic behaviors ofarguments w.r.t, predicates.2.2 Descr ipt ion of contextsContexts and the detailed criteria used to definethem are presented in (Saint-Dizier 95).
A contextis a set of 'extended' distribution frames:l. a set: a cluster of syntactic forms which mustall be valid for a given verb-sense.
A verb ac-cepts a certain context if it accepts all thedistributions the context is composed of.
Adistribution is a list of syntactic onstructions(NPs, PPs and sentences); this list is orderedand corresponds to the way these construc-tions are linearly realized in the surface formas arguments or modifiers.2.
'ex tended ' :  syntactic ategory distributionsare expressed as a Type Feature Structure(written in Login (hit-Ka~i and Nasr 86)).We have identified several types of con-straints:?
Local conslrainls on arguments or on ~heverb: thematic roles (including those definedin (Pngeault et al 94), from (Dowty 89, 91)),the verb subcategorization frame, the arity ofthe verb, and a few commonly-admitted se-lectional restrictions.?
Introduction of syntactic forms: coordinationof arguments, introduction of reflexive pro-nouns and of a few modifiers.?
Relations between arguments: thematicgrids, modifier-modifiee r lation between .ar-guments (e.g.
noun complements), andexpression of essential semantic relations:container-containee, and part-whole of vari-ous types.Our descriptions are more declarative than al-ternations, however, it is clear that this formalismallows us to introduce some forms of constraintsbetween basis forms (via constraints on the verb)and the form being described.
Similarly, the useof clusters of descriptions permits us to relate twoforms.We have defined 70 contexts, including 'basic'contexts (corresponding to 'direct' realizations ofargument structures) and non-basic ones.
Wehave grouped the non-basic ones according tosome similitudes into 17 subclasses.
We have atotal of 23 basic contexts (of general purpose)and 47 non-basic ones (there are 89 alternationsin English).
Non-basic contexts include the de-scription of: middle reflexives, passives, inchoat-ives, place-subject inversion, introduction of thesenti-auxiliary faire, support verbs with nominal-ization of the predicate (e.g.
crier - pousser uncri), various forms of argument deletion, prepo-sition change, reciproquals, body-part reformu-lations, means-instrument raising, reflexives, ar-gument 'des-incorporation', perspective change,there insertion, etc.For example, we have the famous Englishspray/load alternation, which also exists mFrench, which is described as follows:context ( \ [d i s t ( l l l ,  7, context  ID i s  111verb( I \ ] ) ,  7, no const ra in t  on verbphrases  ( \[xp(syntax=>syn(cat=>n) ) ,  7, d i s t r ibut ionxp (syntax=>syn(cat=>p)) ,xp (synt  ax=>syn (cat=>n,type-prep=> \[sur,dana\] ),semant ics=>sem(themat ic=> \[\[loc\] \] ) ) \] ),constraints ( \[\] ) ,ex ( \[j e, pulverise, l a ,peinture, sur, le, mur\]) ) ,7, I spray paint on the walldist(lll, verb(I\]),phrases( \[ xp(syntax=>syn(cat=>n) ),xp (syntax=>syn(cat=>n) ,semant ics=>sem(themat ic=> \[\[loc\] \] ) ) ,xp(syntax=>syn(cat=>p, type-prep=> \[de\] ),semantics=>sem(thematic => \[ \[tg\] \],sem-type=>t sem (semp=>substance)) )\] ),constraints ( \[\] ) ,ex( \[je, pulverise ,le ,mur ,de ,peinture\] ) )\] ) .7, I spray the wall with paint(tg : general theme and loc : localization).3 Construct ion of verb classes3.1 Typo logy  of  the  verb  sampleThe experiment presented here has been realizedon a set of 1700 usual verbs which are the mostfrequently used in French.
Our aim is to classify11283000 to 4000 verbs.
The size of the sample con-sidered so far is however sufficiently large to allowus to draw significant and precise conclusions.It should be noticed that contexts are associatedwith a given word-sense, not wilh all the sensesof a verb.
Each sense of a polysemous verb isassociated with a different set of contexts.
Thedescription of a verb is the following:verb(\[verb\],arity, \[basic context number\],\[thematic grid\],\[prepositions\],\[list of contexts\]).verb(\[admirer\],3,\[20\],\[ae,tib,src\],\[pour\],\[50,51,61,i02,150,171,180\]).
(ae = effective agent, tib = incremental bene-ficiary theme, src = source).
Contexts have beenassociated with verbs on the basis of a nmnberof linguistic analyses of French (e.g.
(Gross 75)),of already existing lexicons, and from corpora in-spection and our own intuitions.3.2 A s imple  verb  c lass i f icat ionWe have carried out a simple classitication wherea verb class contains all the verbs which acceptexactly the same set of contexts.
This is not theclassification method adopted by Beth Levin: herverb classes are constructed from subsets of alter-nations, intuitively selected, which are sufficientlyselective to allow for the characterization of a setof semantically related verbs.
Exceptions are al-lowed in order to elt>ctively gather all the verbswhich are intuitively semantically related.
Herclassification method, based on a large number oflinguistic analyses involving some subtle semanticcriteria (e.g.
intentionality), can only be carriedout manually and is therefore not adapted to ourapproach.We obtain a total of 953 classes.
We get a largenumber of classes with just one element (about77%), this is not surprising, however, since con-texts can be combined in a large number of ways.56% of the verbs appear in classes with at least 2elements, and 33% of them are in classes with atleast 5 elements.This number of classes is quite large comparedto Beth Levin's results (about 200 classes), how-ever, our classes have been constructed on a strictequivalence class basis, without any exceptions,and all the contexts have been taken into account.We have an average of 1.8 verbs per class.
A sim-ilar result was also obtain by (Gross 75), on adifi'erent basis (including morphology) and withmore criteria (about 200).A very informal study of the progression of thenumber of classes tends to indicate that the in-crease of the number of new classes is not linear,but progressively decreases.
It seems that beyond2500 verbs almost no new verb class should becreated, defining about 1100 to 1200 classes.
Butthis is clearly too much.3.3 Eva luat ion  of  the  semant icre la tedness  of  verb  gemant ic  c lassesThe overall quality of the verb classes are stud-ied in detail in (Saint-Dizier 95).
With the sameset of verb-senses, we have carried out a classi-fication similar to the classification proposed inWordNet.
Besides the main categories presentedin (Fe\]lbaum 93), we have added two classes: as-pectual verbs and verbs expressing causality.
Wehave then subdivided these main categories ac-cording to different types of properties or con-straints following as much as possible those de-fined in WordNet.
In our current classification, weconsider 198 hierarchically organized classificationcriteria, instances of the is-a (or troponymy) rela-tion, the depth of the decomposition is 3 (Saint-Dizier 96).
We therefore get 198 verb classes(called WN classes) for levels 1 to 3.
For exam-ple, a three level decomposition is for raovemcn!verbs (level 1), directed motion, local motion, etc.
(level 2) and upward motion, downward motion,etc.
(level 3).If we now compare the degree of overlapp be-tween the classes (with at least 2 elements) formedabove from syntactic ontexts (called VS classes)and those of WN, we get the following results:WN level overlapp VS/WN-1 17 120 5-4o%-~2 75 41 47%- -3 106  18 32%-o- -(1): number of WN classes, (2): average size ofa WN class at this level.Classes where verbs are associated with at least5 contexts are of a much better quality (seman-tic relateuess with WN classes above 64%) thanthose under 5.
The best classes contain an aver-age of 4 to 7 verbs, larger classes (above 10 ele-ments) are often of a lower quality or may containseveral subsets of semantically related verbs: ina large number of classes with more than 8 ele-ments we tbund 2 or 3 subsets of classes of WN.These classes are often formed from a small nmn-bet of contexts (1 to 3), which explains their lowsemantic relatedness rate.Globally, these results aren't very good.
If wewant to explore in more depth the cooperationbetween syntax and semantics, and if we want tobe able to construct verb semantic classes on arigourous basis, it is necessary to develop methodsthat improve the quality of VS classes (consider-ing that syntactic riteria are the most 'rigourous'ones a priori).
The first approach, which is thesimplest, is to make the classification more flexibleby allowing exceptions: a verb in a class may haveone more or one less context han the norm of theclass.
This approach gives however very bad re-sults, with an overlapp VS/WN rate below 35%.To improve that rate, exceptions hould depend1129on the VS class, but this is extremely subjectiveand hard to carry out.
The second type of solutionconsists in analyzing the implicit semantics con-veyed by contexts and to form classes from sets ofcontexts, on the basis of their implicit semantics.Then all the verbs accepting exactly an a priorigiven set of contexts will belong to the same VSclass, even if they accept many other contexts.4 Analysis of the semanticsconveyed by contextsSome contexts are quite general and are not re-lated to precise semantic notions, while othersconvey clearly identifiable meaning components.First, there are contexts which convey very pre-cise meaning components, which are not takeninto account, for various reasons, in WordNet clas-sifications.
For example, the context of the form'pousser + nominalization of verb' is associatedwith verbs of sound emission: painful sounds forhumans and any sound for animals; verbs whichaccept he 'dans/en-de preposition change' conveyan idea of putting something into something else( bourrer le tuyau de papicr, bourrer le papier dausle tuyau).Next, a second type of context conveys meaningcomponents which can directly be associated withWN criteria.
We have carried out a detailed anal-ysis of the correlations between WN criteria andcontexts.
There are 19 non-basic ontexts (out of47), which can very clearly be associated with 1or 2 WN criteria.
For example, context 91, (je fatsatterir l'avion ('I make land the plane')), is at 90%associated with verbs of body care.
Context 151,(alternation 2.13.4 in Beth Levin: Les grimaces deJean terrifient Sophie), is associated at a rate of60% with psychological verbs.
This is studied indetail in (Saint-Dizier 96).5 PerspectivesThe semantic haracterization f contexts houldallow us to construct verb semantic lasses on astronger basis, and with a clear method.
We havecarried out preliminary experiments on transferof possession verbs which confirm this hypothe-sis.
Besides these results, it is of much interestto study how WN and VS classification systemscan cooperate and can contribute to defining thesyntax and the semantics of verbs, in a quite com-prehensive and fine-grained way.
It should benoted that we consider that the syntax-based ap-proach (VS) is the most stable and the most for-real approach, it should therefore be the centralelement of our classification strategy.
WN criteriaare extremely useful, but they remain everthelesssomewhat intuitive and less connected to languagerealizations.Our ultimate goal, from this perspective, is toassociate with families of verb classes, verb classesand possibly individual verbs, hierarchically orga-nize.d semantic representations, under the form ofpartially instanciated LCS-based semantic repre-sentations (a sucessfull experiment in this direc-tion has been carried out for English by (Vossand Dorr 95), and also by ourselves on verbs oftransfer of possession) and ontological knowledge.Acknowledgements I thank Bonnie Dorr,Martha Palmer, Beth Levin, Doug Jones andPahnira Marrafa for discussions that helped im-proving this research.
Many thanks also to AldaMart who carried out parts of the syntactic de-scriptions of verbs.ReferencesA'/t-Ka?i, H., Nasr, R., LOGIN: A Logic Pro-gramming Language with Built-in Inheritance,journal of Logic Programming, voh 3, pp 185-215,1986.Dorr, B., Garman, J., Weinberg, A., From Syn-tactic Encodings to Thematic Roles: Building Lex-ical Entries for Interlingual MT, Machine Trans-lation, 9-3, Kluwer Academic, 1995Dowty, D., On the Semantic Content of the No-tion of Thematic Role, in G. Cherchia, B. Partee,R.
~hrner (eds), Properties, Types and meaning,Kluwer, 1989.Dowty, D., Thematic Proto-roles and ArgumentSelection, Language, vol.
67-3, 1991.Fellbaum, C., English Verbs as Semantic Net,Journal of Lexicography, 1993.Gross~ M., Mdthodes en syntaxe, Masson, Paris,1975.Jackendoff, Ft.,  Semantic Structures, MITPress, 1990.Levin, B., English verb Classes and Alterna-tions: A Preliminary Investigation, Chicago Univ.Press, 1993.Pinker, S., Learnability and Cognition, MITPress, 1993.Pugeault, F., Saint-Dizier, P., Monteil, M.G.,Knowledge Extraction from Texts: a methodfor extracting predicate-argument structures fromtexts, in proc.
Coling 94, Kyoto, 1994.Saint-Dizier, P., Verb Semantic Classes inFrench, IR1T research report, December 1995, (re-vised and extended May 1996).Saint-Dizier, P., Semantic verb classes based on'alternations' and on WordNet-likc semantic ri-teria: a powerful convergence, in proc.
workshopon Predicative Forms, univ.
of Toulouse, August1996.Voss, C., Dorr, B., Toward a Lexicalized Gram-mar for Interlinguas, Machine Translation, 9-4,Kluwer Academic, 1995.Williams, E., Thematic Structure in Syntax,Linguistic Inquiry monograph no.
23, MIT Press,1994.1130
