Zero Pronouns  and Condit ionalsin Japanese Instruct ion ManualsTatsunori Mor i  and Hiroshi NakagawaDivision of Electrical and Computer Engineering, l"acnlty of Engineering, Yokohama National University,Tokiwa-dai 156, llodogztya-kn, Yokoh,~ma 240, JAPANE-maih mori@forest.dnj.ynu.ac.jp, nakagawa@naklab.dnj.ynu.ac.jpAbstractThis paper proposes a method of thezero pronoun resohition, which is oneof the essential processes in understand-ing systems for Japanese manual sen-tences.
It is based on pragmatic proper-ties of Japanese conditionals.
We exam-ined a uumber of sentences appearing inJapanese manuals according to the clas-sillcation based on the types of agent andthe types of verb phrase.
As ~ result, weobtained the following pattern of usagein matrix clauses: 1) The connective par-ticles TO and REBA have tt, e same distri-bution of usage.
TARA and NARA havethe same distribution of usage.
2) '\['hedistribution of usage of TO and REBA,and that of TARA and NARA are com-plementary to each other.
We show thatthese distributions of usage can be usedfor resolution of zero subjects.1 IntroductionFrom simple electrical appliances to complex com-puter systems, almost all machines are accom-panied by instruction manuals.
Since recentlythere are many machines whose operating pro-cedures are complicated, we have much troublein many cases including translating their manualsinto other languages, maintaining consistency be-tween the description in manuals and the actualbehavior of the machines.
To solve these prob-lems, we have to have a computer assisted systemtbr processing Japanese manual sentences, espe-cially tbr understanding manual sentences.A large number of researchers have gotten togrip with the method of understanding some typesof text inehlding instruction lanuals(Abe t al.,1988; Nomura, 1992; Eugenio, 1992).
One of themost important matters of concern in tliese typesof system is how we can fix ambiguities in seman-tic representations and fill uuderspecified parts ofthem.
Generally speaking, almost all systems de-scribed above take the following scheme, l"irstly,each sentence in'a text is translated into a seman-tic representation, hi this process, the system usesonly non-defeasible syntactic and semantic coll-straints.
Most of pragmatic information and coln-rnousense knowledge are not used here, becausethe result of these knowledge would be overrid-den by some other information such as contex-tual intbrmation.
Therefore the semantic repre-sentation would include some undetermined partswhich would be fixed by other kind of informationincluding context.
This way of analysis is knownas the Noudcfeasibility Thesis(Kameyama, 1995).Secondly, all of undetermined parts of the seman-tic representation are filled or settled by some kindof inferences based on ttie donlain knowledge.This type of method, which uses a, large ~%lnollutof domain knowledge, seems to be dominant fronithe viewpoint of disambiguation.
Moreover itscarcely depends on the language in use becmlscthe way of disambiguation is based oil the infer-ence with a certain knowledge base.
On the otlLerhand, ill order to use this method, we have to pre-pa.re the amount of knowledge being large euoughto cope with various type of described objects.Unfortunately, so far we have not had such a com-monsense knowledge base.One of ways to get rid of this situation is toadopt some knowledge which hardly depends onsome particular domain.
As such a kind of knowl-edge, we pay our attention to pragmatic con-straints, which haw.'
not been used sufficiently inthe former methods.
We expect that by prag-matic constraints the ambiguity in manual sen-tences would be resolw;d to some extent not inthe process of inference but in the process of thetranslation of manual sentences into semantic rep-resentations.We do not commit ourselves to the domain spe-citlc knowledge, but use some ontological knowl-edge in general manuals.
For example, the co lrespondence of objects in the mamlal sentencesto the objects in linguistic coustra.ints, like thespeaker, the hearer, and so on.
Note tha.t tile on-tology in this paper does not refer to all of objectsin the world described by manuals, like a certainpart of machine.
Aiming at iridependence fromthe doniain knowledge of objects, we adopt erie ofgeneral ontologies which is applicable to almost allmanuals.
In short, our scheme consists of tile fol-lowing three parts: 1) a parser based on tim non-defeasiblity thesis, 2) pragmatic onstraints pe-cific to linguistic expressions, and 3) the generalontology of the worhl described by tnanuals.In the rest of this paper, we will focns onthe zero pronoun resolution.
In Jal)anese , zeropronouns frequently make a sentence ambiguous.Zero pronouns are ellipsis of obligatory ca.ses,which very frequently appear in Japanese sen-782tences.
F, specially, subjects are omitted very o1:ten.
It is called "zero subject."
In some sense, theresolution of zero pronouns' referents, especiallythe resolution of "zero subject", is the essentialpart of the knowledge xtraction fi'om JaI)atmsei l lanuals~ becanse once referents of zero prOllOtlllSare identified, we can use w~rious methods alreadybeen l)roposed to recognize the structure of sen-tence and to map it into the suitable knowledgerepresentation.
To capture pragmatic onstraints,we have paid our attention to conditionals, whichoccur very frequently in instruction manuals.
Inthis paper, we will show that in instruction man-uals, the constraint of conditionals can I)e used toidentify the referents of zero subjects.
Although,of course, not all the zero pronomls can t)e solvedwith the constraints hown in the paper, our ex-amination for a lot of manual sentences howsthat the constraints work very effectively and ac-curately in sentences with conditionals.Now we have to deline the term 'subject' weused in this paper.
Generally, the term 'subject'd('notes a nominative from the grammatical pointof view.
In this paper, however, we will use theterm SUBJECT to denote a main participant of thesentence.
Roughly speaking, in tile active voice,the SUBJECT is the nominative., on the other hand,in the passive voice, the SUBJECT is the nomina-tive of the corresponding sentence in the activevoice.2 Zero pronouns  in manua lsentencesLet's consider the following Japanese sentence,which shows a certain instrnction.
(1) ?~, kono-botan-o osu -to,(~a-N()M this-button-ACe push -TO?b der -are -mas -u.qSb-NOM go ollt -car| -I'Ol,-NONPAST.If lb, push(es) this button,then ?b can go oul..Native speakers of Japanese have the following in-tuitive interpretation for (1) without any specialcontext.
(2) ?
.
: = the hearer (= the u, er)Here, 'TO' is a Japanese conjunctive particlewhich represents a causal relation.
'MASU' showspoliteness, Milch is expressed by cot, iu( l ) .
The'ARE' shows ability or permission.On the other hand, the following sentence,which does uot have the verbal suffix of possi-bility 'ARE' in the matrix clause, has a differentinterpretation.
(3) ?c kono-botan-o osu -to,(~c-N()M this-button-Ace push -TO,Ca de -mas -u.q~d-NOM conic out  -POL -NONPAST.
1If ??
push(es) this button, then Ca will comeout.The zero pronoun Ca does not refer to timhearer(the user), even though qS~ refers to the useras well a.s (1).
The intuition of native sl)eal~ers ofJapanesc for (3) is that Cd refers to a machine or acertain part of the machine.
Note that when onlythe matrix clause of (3) is use(t as shown in (4),?,.
can lie interpreted as either the hearer or themachine ~,(4) gb e de - lnas -u .
(/)e-NOM go out  -POl, -NONPAST.
?~ will go out.These examples how that the expressions TO andARE impose some constraints on the referents ofSUBJECTS of the sentences.
As described above,there are many cases that linguistic expressionsgive us a key information to resolve some tyl)e ofambiguity like the a.nal)hora of a zero pronoun.
Inthe rest of this paper, we will show several prag-matic constraints, which can aceonllt for the interpretations of these sentences described above.I)ohsaka(l)ohsaka, 1994) l)roposes a similar ap-proach, in which pragmatic onstraints are usedto determine rethrents of zero pronouns.
Whilehis apl)roach treats dialogue, our targets are man-ual sentences.
His approach utilizes honorific ex-pressions and the speaker's point of view.
Sincethe constraints are efl'ective in the (lifferent argetfrom ours, the accuracy of identifying the referentsof zero pronouns would be improved much moreby using both of his constraints and the constraintwe proposed.
As for the identifying methodavailable in general discourses, the centering the-ory(Brennan et al, 1987; Walker et al, 1990) andthe property sharing theory(Kameyama, 1988) areproposed.
Although this kind of theory has agood point that it is independent of the type o17discourse, the linguistic constraints specitic to ex-pressions like the pragmatic onstraints l/roposedby Dohsaka or us are more accurate than theirswhen the speeitlc constraints are applicable.3 Genera l  onto logy  in manua ls  andprinmry constraintsIn this section, we consider the general ontologywhich can be used in ,dl types of manuals.We shouhl consider two types of information asthe parts of ontology: the properties of the ob-jects in manuals and the discourse situation thatis characterized by linguistic roles like a writer anda reader.Const ra in t  1 (Objects)User has intention.Manutheturer  has intention.Mach ine  has no intenl ion.1The English translation of 'DERU' ill (3) is dif-ferent from the translation ill (1).
It is due to theditference of tile viewl)oint be.tweei, Japanese and Eli-glish.
The difference has no effect on the selection ofzero prOllOllll~S refercllt.2It seems to be more natural that Ce is interl)retedas the hearer.783Constraint 2 (Discourse Situation)Speaker (Wr i te r )  = ManufacturerHearer(Reader)  = UserFrom these constraints of the ontology, we canobtain the constraint of persons as follows.Const ra in t  3 (Persons)F i rs t  Person  = ManufacturerSecond Person  -- UserTh i rd  Person  = MachineBefore considering the constraints of Japaneseconditionals, we had better mention the more ba-sic expressions in manuals.
In Japanese, simpleoperation procedures, like those which do not in-elude some conditions, are often described as sim-ple sentences with no subjects whose verbs arc ofone of the following types: the RU form, the re-quest form or the solicitation form.
The RU form isthe basic form of verbs and it denotes the non-pasttense.
Since the RO form has a neutral meaning, itdoes not impose any restriction on the SUBJECT.On the other hand, the request form and thesolicitation form have some constraints.
Thespeaker uses the sentences to prompt hearers todo an action described by the sentence.
There-fore, we have the following constraint.Const ra in t  4 (SUBJECT of  sentence  in therequest fo rm)The SUBJECT of a sentence in either the requeslform or the solicitation form is the hearer,Manual sentences may have a kind of modal-ity expressing the permission, the possibility, theobligation, and so on.
Sentences which have theexpressions of ability or permission mean not.
onlythat it is possible for the SUBJECT of the sentenceto do the action, but also thai; the SUBJECT hastheir choice of whether to do the action or not todo it.
Therefore, we have the following.Const ra in t  5 (SUBJECT of  sentence  w i thab i l i ty  express ions)A SUBJECT of a sentence with the expressions ofability or permission must have his~her intentionto make a choice about the action described by the.sentence.4 Semant ics  of JapaneseCond i t iona lsJapanese has four conditional particles, TO, REBA,TARA and NARA, which are attached to the end ofsubordinate clauses as described in (1).
The sub-ordinate clause aud the matrix clause conjoinedby one of these particles correspond to the an-tecedent and the consequence, respectively.
Eachexpression has its own meaning as shown in Ta-ble l(Masuoka, 1993).
TARA and NARA are veryrarely used in manual sentences as far as we exam-ined.
For example, the rates of use of each condi-tional in over a dozen of instruction manuals are asfollows3: TO is 77.6 % (385 sentences) of all condi-tionals, REBA is 19.4 % (96 sentences), TARA is 2.63As descr ibed later, we have examined severalother  manuals  especially for the considerat ion of the% (13 sentences) and NARA is 0.4 % (2 sentences).Roughly speaking, TO and REBA show causalityrelations, namely some general rules, and TARAand NARA are used in the case that the the an-tecedent is an assumption.
The fact that not as-sumptions but general rules are usually describedin the context of instruction is the reason whyTARA and NARA are used less fi'equently than TOand REBA.The difference of constraints of these expres-sions are shown in the following sentences, whichare the variants of the sentence (3).
(5) ?i kono-botan-o use -ba,(~i-NOM this-button-ace push -REBA,ej de -mas -u.
(fij-NOM come out  -POL -NONPAST.If ?i push(es) this button, then ej will comeout.
(6) ?k kono-botan-o osi -tara,ek-NOM this-button-Ace push -TARA,et de -mas -u.~/-NOM come out/go out -POL -NONPAST.If ek push(es) this button, then et will comeout/go out.
(7) em kom>botan-o osu -nara,em-NOM this-button-Ace push -NARA,en de -mas -u.en-NOM come out/go out -POL -NONPAST.If em push(es) this button, then ?,~ will comeout/go out.As well as the sentence (3), for Japanese nativespeakers, the SUBJECT of the matrix clause of (5)should be a machine.
On the other hand, in thecase of the sentences (6) and (7), the SUBJECTSof the matrix clauses can be either users or ma-(:hines.
These phenomena probably due to the na-ture of each conditionals.
Since a causal relation,which is shown by TO or REBA, expresses a generalrule, the consequence cannot include speaker's at-titude, like volition and request.
Therefore, theSUBJECT of the matrix clause should be a ma-chine.
In contrast, in the case of assumptions,that is TARA and NARA , there are no such re-strictions on the SUBJECT .It depends on the volitionality of the verbwhether a sentence shows a speaker's attitude, ornot.
Therefore, we consider each Japanese condi-tionals in terms of volitionality of the verb.
Notethat the electronic dictinary IPAL provides the in-formation of volitionality for each Japanese verbentry(IPA Te.chn01ogy center, 1987).
We can useit to analyze sentences based on our proposal.4.1 SUBJECTS of  complex  sentences  w i ththe eond i t iona l  TOA matrix clause of the sentence with TO expressesa consequence of a causal relation.
Consequently,conditionals REBA , TARA and NARA, since they oc-cur less frequently than TO in manuals and we haveto collect more examples to estimate their property innralluals.784TOREBATARANARATable h (\]haracteristics of Japanese Conditionalsshows successi{;eness of two"e;eents observed in a real situation.shows a universal causal relation. '
.
.
.
.
.It becomes more assurnlStive when the subordinate clause shows a state.shows l) two individual events occur with ~ie l)assing of tile time, or2) an event which is expected to occur on the uncertain assumption expressedin the subordinate clause.shows that the antecedent of the senl.e.nce is an ~ssumpi, i0n .
.
.
.
.and tire consequence holds on that ;~ssmnption.in matrix clauses, we can use either the mood ofthe description of fa.cts or the mood of evidentialslike conjectures, judgment  and so on.
In contrast,we may not use the expressions of volition, re-quests and so on.
We consider only the moodof the description of facts, because manual sen-tences should describe only facts and must notin('ludc sl)eaker's at, titude.
The sentences havingthe mood are classified into two types: tile (le-scription of an action and the description of a statelike an expression for the ability of some action.The former type is problematic, because the RU-l'orm~ which is the normal inflection form of verbsand describes an action, is ambiguous in its mean-ing.
The RU-fonn can show one of tit(', followings:speaker's volition, speaker's request ,o hearers, orthe action done hy a third party.In the analysis of the description of an action, it,is important  o examine whether the verb phraseexpresses a volitional action or not.
Accordingto the classitlcation by IPA( IPA Technology een-ter, 1987), all of Japanese verbs are classitiedinto two types, volitioual verbs, which usually ex-press int, entional actions, and non-volitional verbs,which express non-intentional actions.
Althoughnon-volitional verbs only exl)ress non-volitionalactions, volitional verbs are cb~ssitied into twokind of verbs.
One is the type of verbs whichcan be used tbr not only volitional actions butalso non-volitional actiorts.
The other is the typeof verbs which are used only for volitional ac-tions.
For example, ITAMO(havc a pain) is anon-volitional verb, OTOSO(drop/loose) is a voli-tional verb which has also the non-volitional use,SAGASU(scarch) is a volitional wM) which has onlythe volitional use.Let us consider the interpretations of the ma--trix clauses of the sentences with 1-O.
The firstcase is that verbs in the matrix clauses are in voli-tional use.
If the SUBJECT is the speaker, the verbin volitional use expresses peaker's volition.
Ifthe SUBJECT is the hearer, the st)eaker expresseshis/her expectation that the hearer makes a vo-litional action shown by the sentence.
This isthe case of requests.
Consequently, the SUBJECTshould be neither the speaker nor the hearer dueto the constraint hat we cannot express sortie vo-lition o1: request in a matrix clause of the TO sen-tence.
On the other hand, a third paJ'ty can 1)ethe SUBJECT, because a sentence whose SUBJECTis a third party does not express any volition, in-vitations, requests or injunctions.
Since tile man-ufactm'e is the speaker and the user is the heareraccording to the constraint of the discourse sit-uation, the mauufacture Ltll(l tile user cannot bethe SUBJECT of the matrix clause.
Therefore, theonly possible interpretation is that the SUBJECTof the matrix clause is the machine.The second case is thal, verbs in the nlatrixclauses are in nell-volitional use.
If a verb of thematrix chmse has a non-volitional use, thai, is, it'it is possible for the action of the clause to bedone unconsciously, the constraint is not applied,because the w:rb in non-volitional use does notexpress any volition, invitations, requests and imjunctions.
For example, the SUBJECT of the ma-trix clause of the following sentence refers to theusers.
(8) ~b\] O.q fllreru-l,o,qSj-NOM q59-ACC touch-TO,'/'h kandenshi-mas-u.
(~h-NOM get_an_eh~ct ric~shocl~-p OL-N O N I'AST.\[1'@ touch(es) qSq, then 4h will get an eh'.etricshock.To examine the accuracy of interpretationsbused on our estinmtion we have collected about400 sentences, which include TO and some ofwhich also inch.Me possibility expressions, fromseveral types of inanuals, l/y these sentence.s,we check Constraint 5 and our estimati(m of TO.Then, it is contirmed that there are no excel)tionto them, at least in the collected sentences.4.2 SUBJECTS o f  comI)h~.x s(mten( 'es w i ththe  cond i t iona ls  REBA,TARA and  NARABecause of the characteristics of each conditionalsdescril)e(t in Table 1, we expect that a) the con-junctive REBA, which shows a causal relation, hasthe same constraint as TO has, which also expresscausality, b) since both of TARA and NARA ex-press an assumption, they have the same type ofconstraint, which is difl'erent fi'om the constraintof TO and REBA.
As the first step to confirm thisexpectation, let us examine whether the matrixclause may have a request form, or not, in thecruses of REBA,TARA and NARA.
At lirst, note thatthe hearer, namely the use.r, is the agent of Cite re-quested action if the matrix clause is a. re(luestform.
In the case that the conjunctive showscausality, the matrix chmse should show someinevitable result of tile event expressed by the785subordinate clause.
Therefore, tile matrix clauseshould not express the judgement and attitude ofthe speaker.
As for the conjunctive REBA, thefact that tile conjunctive represents some causal-ity means that the matrix clause does not havea request form.
Note that the exception is tilecase that the subordinate clause is stative, or anon-volitional action.
As described in 'Fable 1,in those eases, the subordinate clause shows anassumption rather than a cause, and the matrixclause may be a request as shown in the followingexample.
(9) hitsuyou-ga nake -reba,Necessity-NON there-is-no-REBA,?o Cp sutete -kudasa -i.Co-NON Cp-ACC discard -REQPOL -NONPAST.If there is no need of Cp, please discard Cp.The usages of the conjunctives TARA and NARA,which express assumptions, are explained as fol-lows.
Since the assumptions are introduced by thespeaker, the matrix clause is to describe speaker'sexpectation or desire.
Therefore, it is quite prob-able that not only the normal form but also somerequest form, which is considered as a kind ofwish, appears in the matrix clause.In order to ascertain our estimation, we haveexamined a bunch of real sentences, which appearin real instruction manuals.
First of all, in about400 TO sentences, all of tile matrix clauses have norequest form.
In the REBA case, few request formappear in the matrix clauses.
The exceptions arethe same type of sentences as (9).Next, we consider the usage of TARA and NARA.Even if the conjunctive REBA in the sentence (9)is changed for TARA or NARA, the sentences arestill acceptable.
As we exepcted, it shows that thematrix clause of the sentence with TARA or NARAmay have a request form, that is , the SUBJECTof the matrix clause may be a user.
Then, canthe SUBJECT of the matrix chmse be a machine?We expect that there are few cases that the SUB-JECT of the matrix clause is a machine, becausethe highly context specific assumption, which isexpressed by TARA or NARA, is not suitable fortile description of general rules.
Moreover, fi'omthe fact that the matrix clause of TO and REBAcannot express the speaker's attitude, we prag-matically infer that TARA and NARA are expectedto be used only for expressing the speaker's atti-tude.
Our expectation is summarized in Table 2.Note that a SUBJECT should be either a user or amachine because manufacturers have finished allthe actions appeared in the context of instructionbefore shipment.Our estimation about TO has been already con-firmed in Section 4.1.
In order to confirm ourestimation about REBA,TARA and NARA, let usexamine real examples.
Since tile constraints wepursue here are those which restrict the types ofSUBJECTS, we examined the correlation amongthe types of conjunctives, the types of verbs andthe SUBJECT.
As for the types of SUBJECTS, aSUBJECT should be either a user or a machine.Table 2: Our estimate of the usage of tile matrixclauseSpeaker's attitude =User's Volitional Act.TO,REBA Not availableTARA,NARA AvailableOthersAvailableNot availableAs for tile types of verbs, each clause is classifiedinto two classes according to volitionality of verb.One of them is tile cl;~ss of verbs in volitional use,the other is the class of other non-volitional predi-cates.
Therefore ach clause belongs to one of thefollowings:?
SUBJECT = user and Predicate = verb in vo-litional use (U/V, hereafter)?
SUBJECT = user and Predicate = others(u/o)?
SUBJECT = machine and Predicate = verb involitional use (M/V)?
SUBJECT = machine and Predicate = others(M/O)Table 3, 4 and 5 show the distribution of usageof each conjunctive.
Each number shows the fre-quency of use in the examples we examined.
Notethat to create 'Fable 3,4 and 5, several Japanesenative speakers determine referents of zero SUB-JECTS according to contexts.Table 3: Distribution of use of REBAMatrix ClauseU/V U/O M/V M/O TotalU/V 1 65 52 14 1320.4% 26.9% 23.1% 6.2% 58.7%U/O 4 12 1 0 171.8% 5 .3% 0.4% 0.0% 7.6%M/V 0 0 1 4 50.0% 0 .0% 0.4% 1.8% 2.2%M/O 6 20 38 7 712.7% 9 .0% 16.9% 3,1% 31,9%11 97 92 25 225rotal 4.9% 43.1% 40.9% 11.1% 100%First of all, as we expected before, the distri-bution of the use of REBA is different from thoseof TARA and NARA.
While we call see several dif-ferences of use, the most remarkable one is thedifference of use of the matrix clause.
The matrixclauses of REBA are hardly any user's volitionalaction.
The exceptions are only about 5% of allexamples.
The distribution of use of the matrixclauses of TARA and NARA is complementary tothe distribution of REBA, that is, the majority ofthe matrix clause of TARA(about 90% of all exam-ples) and NARA(100% of all examples) are user'svolitional actions, although the number of the to-tal examples of NARA is not so numerous.
Theempirical result supports the our estimation.786Table 4: l)istribution of use of TARAM atrix ClauseU/V U/O M/V M/O Total'25 0 0 0 25U/V 42.4% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 42.4%7 1 0 0 8 ....U/O 11.9% 1.7% 0.0% 0.0% 13.6%8 2 O 1 11M/V 13.6% 3.4% 0.0% 1.7% 18.6%13 0 2 0 15M/O 22.0% 0.0% 3.4% 0.0% 25.4%53 3 2 1 59\]'ot a\] 89.8% 5.1% 3.4% 1.7% 100%SUI)TMJe 5: Distrilmtion of use of NARAMatrix ClauseU/V U/O M/V M/O Total0 0 0 0 0U/V 0.0% 0.o% 0.0% o.o% 0.0%8 0 0 0 8U/O 88.9% 0.0% 0.
(l% 0.0% 88.9%0 0 0 0 0M/V 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%I 0 0 0 1M/O 11.1% 0.0% 0.0% o.0% 11.1%9 0 0 0 9Tot;ill 100% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 100%4.3 Defau l t  rules of  usage of REBA, TARAand NARAThe tendency of use of the conjunctives gives us acouple of strong defimlts to resolve the zero pro-noun in tit(; matrix clauses.
We propose the fol-lowing defaults.Defau l t  1 (SUBJECT of sentem:e wi th  TO orREBA)In a complex sentence with the connectzve parti-cle TO orREBA, the matrix clause does not empressuser's volitional action.
Therefore, the SUBJECTof the matriz clause should be a machine, if theverb of the matrix clause does not have the non-volitional use.Defau l t  2 (SUBJECT of  sentence  wi th  TARAor NARA)In a complex sentence with.
the connective par-ticle TARA or NARA, the matrix clause e~:pressesonly user's volitional action.
7'h.erefore, the SUB-JECT of the malrix clause should be a user.The accuracy of the default rules of-I-O,REBA,TARA and NARA is 100%, 95.1%, 89.8%and 100%, respectively, as far as we examined.5 Conc lus ionIn l;his pat)er , we proposed a scheme which closelydepends not on domain knowledge of objects de-scribed in manual but on pragmatic constraintswhich linguistic expressions innately have.
Thismethod uses only the linguistic constraints andthe general ontology of the world described bymanuals.
Especially, we have shown that we candeternfine the referents of zero pronouns to someextent with our linguistic constraints, like the constraint of the Japanese Conditionals.
llowew~'r,we do not have enough knowledge about the foblowing l)oints.
They are important portions of ourfuture work.?
Utilization of discourse, structure.?
Analysis for the other types of manual sen-tences, like definitions.ReferencesNorihiro Abe, Tomohiro lshikawa, and TsujiSalmro.
1988.
Generating an asscnfl)ly pro-cedure from asselnbly instruction.
Journalof Japanese Society for Artificial intelligence,3(5):590-598, September.
(in Japanese).Susan E. F/rennan, Marilyn Walker Friedman, andCarl 3.
Pollard.
1987.
A centering approachto pronouns, In Proceedings of th.e 25th AnnualMeeting of the American.
Association of Compu-tational Linguistics (ACL 87), pages 155:162.Kohji Dohsaka.
1994. hlentifying the referentsof Japanese zero pronouns based on pra.gmaticcondition interpretation.
7Yansactions of In formalion Processing Society o\] Japan, 35(5):768778.
(in Japanese).Barbara Di Eugenio.
1992.
Understanding natu-ral language instructions: The case of purl)useclause_ In Proceedings of 30th Annual Meetingof A CL, pages 120 127.II'A Technology center, 1987.
Th.e lexz-eon of the Japanese basic verbs for Com-lrulers, hfformation-teehnology I'romotionAgency(IPA), lapan, March.
(in :lapanesc).Megumi KarneyaIna.
1988.
Japanese zeropronominal binding: Where syntax and dis-course meet.
In W. Poser, editor, Japanese 5'yn-tax, pages 351-369.
CSIA,Stantbrd.Megumi Kameyama.
1995.
The syntax and se-nm.utics of the .lal)anese language engine.
InR,.
Mazuka and N. Nagai, editors, JapaneseSyntactic Processing.
Lawrence l,\]rll)aum Asso-ciates.
'Fakashi Masuoka, editor.
1993.
Nihongo-no Joken-llyogen (Conditional t'2~:pr'essions i,/apanese).
Kurosio Publishers, Tokyo.
(inJapanese).llirosato Nomura.
1992. l,inguistic analysis of lawsentences.
In Proceedings of the 6th Interna-tional Symposium: Legal (nowledge and LegalReasoning Systems, pages 10 18. l,egal Exl)ertSystem Association, October.Marilyn Walker, Masayo 1ida, a.nd Sharon Cote.1990.
Centering in Japanese discourse.
In Pro-ceedings of COLING 90.787
