Discover ing the Sounds of Discourse Structure*Extended AbstractBarbara  J. GroszDiv is ion of Eng ineer ing  and App l ied  SciencesHarvard  Un ivers i ty33 Oxford  S t reetCambr idge ,  MA 02138 USAgrosz (~eecs .harvard .eduIt is widely accepted that discourses are com-posed of segments and that the recognition ofsegment boundaries is essential to a determina-tion of discourse meaning (Grosz and Sidner,1986).
Written language has orthographic uessuch as section headings, paragraph boundaries,and punctuation which can assist in identifyingdiscourse structure.
In spoken language, into-national variation provides essential informationabout disconrse structure.
For instance, it maybe used to mark structural features of discourseat the global level, such as segment boundaries.Intonation also provides more local informationabout relations among utterances within a seg-ment, for example indicating whether phrases areparenthetical.
It can also help distinguish betweendifferent interpretations of phrases that can func-tion either as cue phrases that indicate discoursesegment bomldaries or sententially to convey do-main information.
Finally, variations in intona-tional prominence may be used to convey informa-tion about the discourse status of entities referredto by definite noun phrases and pronouns.An understanding of intonational variation andthe ways in which it carries information about dis-course characteristics of spoken language is impor-tant for computer-based interpretation and gener-atien of speech.
From the interpretation perspec-tive, this understanding may provide new tech-niques for identifying discourse structure.
Fromthe generation perspective, it would lead to morenatural synthetic speech, making it possible toproduce comtmter speech that is easier for peopleto understand and less susceptible to misinterpre-tation.Three major challenges have faced researchersattempting to discover the relationship betweenintonational features and the structure of spokendiscourse.
First, the collection of corpora of spon-taneous speech has required the development of* The research described in this presentation wassupported by the National Science Foundation, GrantIRI 94-04756.
The research as been done collabora-tively with Julia Hirschberg and Christine Nakatani.David Ahn provided invaluable technical musistance.new experimental methodologies.
Whereas it isstraightforward to have the same text read bymany speakers, it is much more difficult to ob-tain similar samples of spontaneous speech fromnmltiple speakers.
Second, techniques must be de-veloped to obtain reliable segmentations and la-belings of the corpora.
Because discourse struc-ture is rooted in semantics rather than syntax, thishas proved more difficult than tagging corpora forsentence structure.
Third, measures of agreementamong segmentations must be designed.
In thisarea too, the semantic nature of discourse struc-ture leads to a more complex problem than com-paring sentence parse structures.This talk will begin with a summary of pi-lot studies that demonstrated reliable correla-tions of discourse structure and intonational fea-tures (Grosz and Hirschberg, 1992; Hirschbergand Grosz, 1992; Hirschberg and Grosz, 1994).It will then tbcus on a new corpus of direction-giving monologues, the Boston Directions Corpus(Nakatani et al, 1995a; Hirschberg and Nakatani,1996).
I will describe the methodology we devel-oped to elicit fluent spontaneous direction-givingmonologues ranging over a spectrum of planningcomplexity.
Next I will describe the developmentof annotation instructions used to train labelersto segment spoken discourses (Nakatani et al,1995b) and will discuss agreement among segmen-tations on the Boston Directions Corpus obtainedusing these instructions.
Then I will describe re-sults of our analyses of the correlation betweendiscourse structure and intonational features.
Fi-nally, I will present, a list of challenges for flltureresearch in this area.ReferencesBarbara Grosz and Julia Hirschberg.
1992.
Someintonational characteristics of discourse struc-ture.
In John Ohala et al, editor, Proceedingsof the 1992 International Conference on SpokenLanguage Processing (ICSLP-92), pages 429432, Edmonton, Canada.
Personal PublishingLtd.Barbara Grosz and Candace Sidner.
1986.
Atten-tion, intentions, and the structure of discourse.Computational Linguistics, 12(3):175k-204.Julia Hirschberg and Barbara Grosz.
1992.
Into-national features of local and global discoursestructure.
In Proceedings of the Speech andNatural Language Workshop, pages 441-446.Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency,February.Julia Hirschberg and Barbara Grosz.
1994.
Into-nation and discourse structure in spontaneousand read direction-giving.
In Proceedings ofthe International Symposium on Prosody, pages103 109.
Japan Society for the Promotion ofScience.Julia Hirschberg and Christine H. Nakatani.
1996.A prosodic analysis of discourse segments indirection-giving monologues.
In Proceedings ofthe Annual Meeting o/ the Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Christine Nakatani, Julia Hirschberg, and Bar-bara Grosz.
1995a.
Discourse structure in spo-ken language: Studies on speech corpora.
InWorking Notes of the AAAI-95 Spring Sym-posium on Empirical Methods in Discourse In-te~Tretation, pages 106-112, Menlo Park, CA.American Association for Artificial Intelligence.Christine H. Nakatani, Barbara J. Grosz,David D. Ahn, and Julia Hirschberg.
1995b.Instructions for annotating discourse.
Techni-cal Report TR-21-95, Harvard University.2
