Formal  Descr ip t ion  of Mu l t i -Word  Lexemes  w i th  theF in i te -S ta te  Formal i sm IDAREXElisabeth BreidtSeminar ffir SprachwissenschaftUniversit?t TfibingenWilhelmstr.
113D-72074 TfibingenGermanybreidt@sfs.nphil.uni-tuebingen.deFrfddrique Segond, Giuseppe ValettoRank Xerox Research Centre6, chemin de MaupertuisF-38240 MeylanFrancesegond@grenoble.rxrc.xerox.comvaletto@mailer.cefriel.itAbst rac tMost multi-word lexemes (MWLs) allowcertain types of variation.
This has to betaken into account for their descriptionand their recognition in texts.
We sug-gest to describe their syntactic restric-tions and their idiosyncratic peculiaritieswith local grammar ules, which at thesame time allow to express in a generalway regularities valid for a whole class ofMWLs.
The local grammars can be writ-ten in a very convenient and compactway as regular expressions in the formal-ism IDAREX which uses a two-level mor-phology.
IDAREX allows to define varioustypes of variables, and to mix canonicaland inflected word forms in the regularexpressions.
~1 IntroductionMost texts are rich in multi-word expressionsthat cannot be properly understood let alne beprocessed in an NLP system, ff they are not recog-nized as complex lexical units.
Such expressionswhich we call multi-word lexemes (MWL) rangefrom idioms (to rack one's brains over sth), overphrasal verbs (to come up with), lexical and gram-matical collocations (to make love, with regard toresp.)
to compounds (on-line dictionary).While certain MWLs only occur in exactly oneform, e.g.
out of the blue or G:um Haaresbreite('by a hair's breadth', lit.
by hair's breadth), andcan thus be easily recognised with simple pat-tern matching techniques, it is well-known (seee.g.
Gross 1982, Brundage et al 1992, Nunberget al 1994) that most MWLs cannot be treatedlike completely fixed patterns, since they may un-dergo some variation.
However, only a subset of1Part of this work was funded under LRE 62-080by the EEC.the variations allowed by general rules is valid:outside that subset, the expression loses its spe-cial, idiomatic meaning, either reverting to its lit-eral meaning or losing any significance altogether.In certain cases, MWLs can even contradict nor-mal syntactic rules, as with by and large, or G:vonHaus aus ('originally', lit.
from house out), wheregeneral rules would require an article between thepreposition and the noun.The identification of MWLs is essential for anynatural language processing based on lexical infor-mation, ranging from intelligent dictionary look-up over concordancing or indexing to machinetranslation.
Therefore, the restricted lexical andsyntactic variability of MWLs and their idiosyn-cratic peculiarities need to be expressed in thecomputational lexicon in order to be able to recog-nize the full range of their occurrences.
We pro-pose to use local grammars for this, written asa special type of regular expressions (REs) inthe finite-state formalism IDAItEX which makesuse of a two-level morphological lexicon.
So far,we have successfully applied this approach to ap-proximately 15,000 English, French and GermanMWLs (see also Segond and Breidt 1995).2 Restricted Variability of MWLsBasically, we recognize four types of variability(see also Fleischer 1982, Brundage t al.
1992, En-gelke 1994) that a description of MWLs, both forNLP and for human use, should cover.
Thoughpart of the variability of MWLs may follow fromtheir semantic properties as argued in recent work(e.g.
Nunberg et al 1994), it is difficult to estab-lish such a relationship on a large scale, and a lotof remaining idiosyncratic haracteristics of indi-vidual MWLs need to be represented.Morpho log ica l  Var iat ion:  Particular wordsin the MWL may undergo certain inflections.For instance, in G:durchschlagender Erfolg('sweeping success', lit.
rubbing--offsuccess), noun1036and adjective can vary in case and in numbcr,and comparative and superlative form are possiblefor the adjective, whereas G:griine Welle ('phasedtraffic lights', lit.
green wave) may only vary incase, but not in number or adjective comparisonwithout loosing its idiomatic meaning.Lexical  Var iat ion:  One or more words can besubstituted by other terms without changing theoverall meaning of the MWL.For instance, in F:perdre la tdte ('to lose one'smind', lit.
to lose the head), the noun can be sub-stituted by la boule (lit.
ball, coll.
head) or lespddales (lit.
pedals) without loosing its idiomaticmeaning, but not by la tronche (lit.
slice, coll.head).Modi f icat ion:  One of the MWL's constituentscan be modified, preserving the idiomatic mean-ing.For instance, in G:den (schgnen) Schein wahren('to keep up appearances', lit.
the (nice) pretencepreserve) the presence or absence of the adjectivedoes not change the meaning at all, whereas inG:das Handtueh werfen ('to throw in the towel',lit.
the towel throw) any modification would evokethe literal meaning.S t ructura l  F lexib i l i ty:  This includes phenom-ena like passivization, topicalization, scrambling,raising constructions etc.For instance, whereas in German standard wordorder variation applies to all verbal MWLs, top-icalisation of lexically fixed components i onlyrarely po~ible, as in G:den Vogel dabei hat danaJan abgeschossen ('finally, Jan surpassed every-one', lit.
the bird with it has then Jan shot).3 IDAREX: Encoding Idioms AsRegular EXpressionsThe IDAREX formalism and the correspondingFSC Finite State Compiler have been developedat Rank Xerox Research Centre by L. Karttunen,P.
Tapanainen and G. Valetto 2.3.1 Morpho log ica l  Var ia t ionBecause IDAItEX use8 a two-level morphology,words can be presented either in their base format the lexical level or in an inflected form at thesurface level.
The surface form is preceded by acolon and restricts occurrences of the word to ex-actly this form, e.g.2 For a more detaileddescription of the formalism see Kaxttunen and Yam-pol (1993), Tapanainen (1994), Uaxttunen (1995), andSegond and Tapanainen (1995).
: WelleThe lezical form is followed by an IDAREX morpho-logical variable specifying morphological featuresof the word, and a colon, e.g.durchschlagend A :This represents any occurrence of the word withthe specified morphological properties.
The mor-phological variable can be very general, such a.u'A' for ally adjectival use, or more specific, suchas Abs0 for adjectives that may not be used incomparative form and i sg  to restrict nouns to thesingular, as ingrim Abse: Welle Nsg:This way, the restricted morph(~syntactic flexi-bility of MWLs can bc expressed very elegantly.3.2 Mod i f i ca t ionMWL modifications with particular words are rep-resented as optional expressions with parentheses,as ill:den ( :sch6nen)  :ScheinThe definition of word-class variables allowsto express lexically unrestricted modifications ofan MWL such as insertion of any adverb(s) (theKleene star operator indicates that the item mayoccur any number of times):perdre  V: ADV* :la :t@teOn the basis of simpler word-class variables morecomplex ones may be defined for complex syntac-tic categories suclt as NP, ADVP or PP.3.3 Lexieal  and  St ructura l  Var ia t ionThe formalism provides a set of RE operators tocombine the descriptions of single words.
Squarebrackets '\[ \]' and the bar ' - - '  are used to describelexical variants and alternations of more complexsequences such as word order variation in German.For instance, for the French example above wewriteperdre  V: ADV* \[:la : t~te  I :la :bouleI : l es  :p6da les  \] ;To express German verb-front and verb-finalword order as in'dabei wahrt er (immer) den Schein'('in this, he always keeps up appearances')and 'urn den Schein zu wahren'('in order to keep up appearances')we write\[ wahren Vfin: (kDV* NPnor.)
/d)V* :den( :schSnen) :Schein I :den ( :schSnen):Schein ( : zu)  wahren \] ;1037In addition, IDAREX allows the definition ofmacros to capture generalisations onthe syntacticlevel.
Any position in the macro that we want toinstantiate differently for each use is indicated bya parameter $4.
Instantiations of parameters canbe single words in lexical or surface form, vari-ables, operators or other macros.For example, instead of explicitly writing thecomplicated RE above, we define a word ordermacro WOVltrg that may be used for all Germanverbal MWLs having no additional idiommxternalarguments:WOV1Arg:\[ $2 Vfin: (ADV* NPnom) ADV* $1\[$1 (:zu) $2 v: \]In addition, we define auxiliary macros f i x ( i )because we want to instantiate the parameter $1,which stands for the lexically fixed components ofthe MWL, with expressions of variable length:fix5:$1 $2 $3 $4 $S fix2:$1 $2 etc.Using this word order macro, the MWLs den(schSnen) Schein wahren and die Ohren spitzen('to prick up one's ears', lit.
the ears sharpen) cannow both be expressed very simply according tothe same schema sWOVlArg( f ixS( :den ( :schSnen ):Schein) vahren )WOVlhrg( fix2(:die :Ohren) spitzen )Further macros are defined for German forMWLs with a reflexive or particle verb, to expressscrambling of an idiom-external PP complementor topicalisation.
In French, macros describe forexample the verb complex for MWLs involving areflexive verb.4 D iscuss ionNLP treatments of MWLs in so-called high levelgrammar formalisms have for example been pro-posed in Abeill6 and Schabes (1989) in the frame-work of lexicalised TAGs, Erbaeh (1992) andCopestake (1994) in HPSG, Van der Linden(1993) in CG.
These approaches to our knowl-edge cannot satisfactorily represent lexical vari-ants, nor the restricted flexibility and modifiabil-ity of MWLs.Instead of using a high-level grammar formal-ism we describe ,MWLs with finite-state localgrammars.
Although finite-state techniques areknown to be unable to represent all the depen-dencies found in natural anguage, they have theadvantage of allowing a very efficient reatment ofa great number of phenomena and the implemen-tation of robust, large-scale NLP systems.
How-ever, the use of these techniques i usually ham-pered by the unwieldiness in notation that thesetechniques usually lead to.The presented approach overcomes this prob-lem: instead of having to specify local grammarsdirectly as finite state networks or as graphs (e.g.Maurel 1993, Roche 1993, and Silberztein 1993),IDAKEX REs provide a convenient way to mix in-flected and uninflected word forms, morphologicalfeatures and complete word classes, thus greatlyrelieving lexicographers from the burden of explic-itly listing all the possible forms.
Furthermore,our formalism allows the use of a bigger set of op-erators such as conta ins  ($), not (~), and (&),etc.
This provides us with the possibility to ex-press certain things in a very compact way.
Forexample, in the definition of German verbs we ex-clude contracted forms of verbs and the pronounes such as geht's ('it goes') , we simply state "anyexpression with the morphological feature +V, fol-lowed by anything that must not contain a letter(i.e.
additional morphologicalfeatures), andwhichdoes not contain the feature +ca in any position"def ine V ~.+V "$Letter k "$Y.+esWith macros, generahzations about patternsthat can occur for a whole class of MWLs can beexpressed.
This compactness and flexibility are,as far as we know, specific to our approach.Encoding the local grammars as REs instead ofencoding them directly as networks does of coursenot change the expressive power of the formal-ism, but it conveniently abstracts the handling ofMWLs from the graph manipulation level, allow-ing to develop and employ devices that operate onstring representations and map them to the un-derlying finite state networks.
As we have shownabove, this simplifies considerably the descriptionof the different patterns of variation oecuring inMWLs.Once the MWLs listed in the dictionary havebeen manually changed into their canonical baseform, including possible lexical variants and mod-ifiers and indicating morphologically flexible com-ponents and the scope of alternative components,the IDAaEX REs describing all possible contextsin which the MWLs can occur can be producedautomatically.
For instance, the canonical formsfor the examples from section 2 can be specifiedas:durchschlagender ?
Erfolg ?grfine ?
Welle (sg)perdre ?
(ADV)^la t~te/la boule/les p6dales ^T: den Vogel (bei etw) abschieBen ?den (schSnen) Schein wahren ?1038das Handtuch werfen ?out of the blueum HaaresbreiteSuch canonical base forms, somewhat similar inspirit to the notation used in Longman's 'Dic-tionary of English Idioms' (1979), do not onlyform the basis for the automatic processing andrecognition of MWLs.
Human users as well wouldprofit from a careful description of the variabil-ity of MWLs, so it should be worthwhile to alsoinclude the canonical forms in dictionaries for hu-man users.The presented approach is successfully used inthe COMPASS project 3 to represent MWLs in dic-tionary databases converted from standard bilin-gual dictionaries.
The COMPASS system, basedon the LOCOLEX engine (Bauer, Segond and Zae-hen 1995) developed at RXRC, allows look-up ofwords in the dictionary database directly out ofan on-line text.
When the user clicks on an un-known word in a foreign language, LOCOLEX eval-uates the context of the queried word.
Currently,the system determines the word's part of speechand whether the word is part of an MWL.
In thelatter case, the translation for the entire MWL isreturned, otherwise a selection of translations forthe most appropiate part of speech.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Annie Zaenen, Lauri Kaxttunen, TedBriscoe, and Irene Maxwell for their comments on anearlier draft of this paper.Re ferencesAbeilld Anne ; and Schabes Yves, (1989).
"Pars-ing idioms in lexicalized TAGs".
Proceedings ofthe 4th EACL, Manchester, UK.Bauer Daniel ; Segond Fr~ddrique ; and ZaenenAnnie, (1995).
"LOCOLEX: the translationrolls off your tongue".
Proceedings of ACH-ALLC, Santa Barbara, CA.Brundage Jennifer ; Kresse March ;Schwall Ulrike; and Storrer Angelika, (1992).
"MultiwordLexemes: A Monolingual and Contrastive Ty-pology for NLP and MT'.
IWBS Report 232,IBM TR-80.92-029, IBM Deutschland GmbtI,Institut fiir Wissensbasierte Systeme, Heidel-berg, September.Copestake Anne, (1994).
"Idioms in general andin HPSG".
Presentation given at the Work-shop 'The Future of the Dictionary', Uriage-Les-Balns, France, September 1994.Z'Adapting bilingual dictionaries for COMPrehen-sion ASSistance', LRE-62-080.Engelke Sabine, (1994).
Eigenschaften yonPhraseolexemen: Eine Uniersuchung zur syn-taktischen Variabilildt und internes Modifizier-barkeit yon somatischen verbalen Phraseolexe-men.
Master's Thesis, Universit~it Tiibingen,Germany, April.Erbach Gregor, (1992).
"Head-Driven LexicalRepresentation of Idioms in HPSG".
In M.Everaert et al, editors, Proceedings of the In-ternational Conference on Idioms, Tilburg, NL,September.Fleischer Wolfgang, (1982).
Phraseologie der den-tschen Gegenwartssprache.
VEB Bibliographis-ches Institut, Leipzig, Germany.Gross Maurice.
(1982).
"Use classification dephrases fig6es fran~ais".
Revue Quebecoise deLinguistique, Vol.
11, No.
2.
Montreal.Karttunen Lanri, (1995).
"The Replace Oper-ator".
Proceedings of the Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics(ACL-95), Boston, MA.Karttunen Lanri ; and Yarnpol Todd, (1993).
"In-teractive Finite-State Calculus".
Technical Re-port ISTL-NLTT-1993-04-01, Xerox Palo AltoResearch Center, California.van der Linden Erik-Jan, (1993).
A CategorialComputational Theory of Idioms.
OTS Disser-tation Series, Utrecht, NL.Maurel Denis, (1993).
"Passage d'un auto-mate avec tables d'acceptablilit~ hun automatelexical".
In Acres du colloque Informatiqueet langue naturelle, pages 269-279, Nantes,France.Nunberg Geoffrey ; Wasow Thomas ; and SagIvan, (1994).
"Idioms".
Language, 70/3:491-538.Roche Emmanuel, (1993).
Analyse syntaxiquetransformationneile du franfais par transduc-tents et lezique-grammaire.
Th~e de doctorat,Universit~ Paris 7.Segond FrSd~rique ; and Breidt Elisabeth, (1995).
"Description formelle des expressions h motsmultiples en fran~ais et en allemand duns lecadre de la technologic des dtats finis".
Lex-icomatique l Dictionnairiques, Aetes des IVeJourn6es Scientifiques du reseau "Lexicologie,Terminologie, Traduction" de I'UREF, Lyon,Septembre 1995.Segond Fr6d~rique ; and Tapanalnen Past, (1995).
"Using a finite-state based formalism to identifyand generate multiword expressions".
TechnicalReport MLTT-019, Rank Xerox Research Cen-tre, Grenoble, France, July.1039Silberztein Max, (1993).
Dictionnaires dlectro-niqnes et analyse automatique de textes - Lesyst~me INTEX.
Masson, Paris, France.Tapanainen Pasi, (1994).
"RXRC Finite-Staterule Compiler".
Technical Report MLTT-020,Rank Xerox Research Centre, Grenoble, France.1040
