Semant ic -based  Trans fer*Michael Dorna and Mart in C. EmeleInstitut fiir Maschinelle SprachverarbeitungAzenbergstralle 12D-70174 Stuttgart{dorna, emele} @ims.
uni-stuttgart, deAbstractThis article presents a new semantic-based transfer approach developed andapplied within the Verbmobil MachineTranslation project.
We give an overviewof the declarative transfer formalism to-gether with its procedural realization.Our approach is discussed and comparedwith several other approaches from theMT literature.
The results presented inthis article have been implemented andintegrated into the Verbmobil system.1 IntroductionThe work presented in this article was developedwithin the Verbmobil project (Kay et al, 1994;Wahlster, 1993).
This is one of the largest projectsdealing with Machine Translation (MT) of spo-ken language.
Approxinmtely 100 researchers in29 public aad industrial institutions are involved.The application domain is spontaneous pokenlanguage in face-to-face dialogs.
The current sce-nario is restricted to the task of appointmentscheduling and the languages involved are English,German and Japanese.This article describes the realization of a trans-fer approach based on the proposals of (Abb andBuschbeck-Wolf, 1995; Caspari and Schmid, 1994)and (Copestake, 1995).
Transfer-based MT 1, seee.g.
(Vauquois and Boi~et, 1985; Nagao et al,1985), is based on con~rastive bilingual corpusanalyses from which a bilingual lexicon of trans-fer equivalences is derived.
In contrast o a purely*This work was funded by the German FederalMinistry of Education, Science, Research and Tech-nology (BMBF) in the framework of the Verbmobilproject under grant 01 IV 101 U.
We would liketo thank our colleagues of the Verbmobil subprojectTransfer, our IMS colleagues Ulrich Heid and C.J.Rupp and our anonymous reviewers for usefltl feed-back a~ld discussions on earlier drafts of the paper.The responsibility for the contents of this paper lieswith the authors.1For a more detailed overview of different ap-proaches to MT, see e.g.
(Hutchins and Solners, 1992).lexicalist approach which relates bags of lexicalsigns, as in Shake-and-Bake MT (Beaven, 1992;Whitelock, 1992), our transfer approach operateson the level of semantic representations producedby various analysis teps.
The output of transfer isa semantic representation for the target languagewhich is input to the generator and speech synthe-sis to produce the target language utterance.
Ourtransfer equivalences abstract away from morpho-logical and syntactic idiosyncracies of source andtarget languages.
The bilingual equivalences aredescribed on the basis of semantic representations.Since the Verbmobil domain is related to dis-course rather than isolated sentences the modeltheoretic semantics i based on Kamp's DiscourseRepresentation Theory, DRT (Kamp and Reyle,1993).
In order to allow for underspecification,variants of Underspecified Discourse Representa-tion Structures (UDRS) (Reyle, 1993) are em-ployed as semantic formalisms in the differentanalysis components (Bos et al, 1996; Egg andLebeth, 1995; Copestake t al., 1995).Together with other kinds of information, suchas tense, aspect, prosody and morpho-syntax,the different semantic representations are mappedinto a single multi-dimensional representationcalled Verbmobil Interface Term (VIT) (Dorna,1996).
This single information structure serves asinput to semantic evaluation and transfer.
Thetransfer output is also a VIT which is basedon the semantics of the English grammar (el.Copestake t al.
(1995)) and used for generation(see Kilger and Finkler (1995) for a description ofthe generation component).Section 2 of this paper sketches the seman-tic representations we have used for transfer.
Insection 3 we introduce transfer rules and dis-cuss examples.
In section 4 we compare ourapproach with other MT approaches.
In sec-tion 5 we present a summary of the implemen-tation aspects.
For a more detailed discussion ofthe implementation of the transfer formalism seeDorna and Emele (1996).
Finally, section 6 sum-marizes the results.3162 Semantic RepresentationsThe different Verbmobil semanti(: constructioncomponents use variants of UDRS as their semas>tic formalisms, el.
(Bos et al, 1996; Egg and Le-beth, 1995; Copestake t al., 1995).
The abilityto underspecify quantifier and operator scope to-gether with certain lexical ambiguities is impofrant for a practical machine translation systemlike Verbmobil because it supports ambiguity pre-serving translations.
The (lisambiguation of dif-ferent readings couht require an m'bitrau'y amountof reasoning on real-world knowledge and thusshould be avoided whenever possible.In the following examples we assume an ex-plicit event-based semantics (Dowry, 1989; Par-sons, 1991) with a Neo-Davidsonian representa-tion of semantic argument relations.
All seman-tic entities in UDRS are uniquely labeled.
A la-bel is a pointer to a semantic predicate nmking iteasy t,o refer to.
The labeling of all scntantic enti-ties allows a fiat ret)resentation f the hierarchicalstructure of arguinent an(1 ot)erator and quantifierscope embeddings as a set of labeled conditions.The recursive embedding is expressed via addi-tional subordination constraints on labels whichoccur as arguments of su(:h olmrators.Example (la) shows one of the classicalVerbmobil examples and its possible Englishtranslation (lb).
(1) a. Das paflt echt scMecht bei 'mir.b.
That really doesn't suit me well.The corresponding semat)l,ic representations aregiven in (2a) and (2b), respectively.
2(\[2) a.
\ [ l l :echt (12) ,  12:sch lecht ( i l ) ,13:passen( i l ) ,  13:arg3( i l , i2 ) ,14:pron(i2), 15:bei(il,i3), 16:ich(i3)\]b.
\[ll:real(12), 12:neg(17), 17:good(il),13:suit(il), 13:arg3(il,i2),14:pron(i2), 15:arg2(il,i3), 16:ego(i3)\]Scnlantic entities in (2) are reprc, scnted as a Pro-log list of laImlcd conditions.
After the unification-t)ased s(~illantic onstruction, the logical wu'iablesfor labels and nmrkers, such as events, states andindividuals, are skolemize(l with special constantsymt)ols, e.g.
11 for a label att(t ?1 for a state.
Ev-ery condition is prefixed with a lal)el serving as aunique identifer.
Labels are also useflll for group-ing sets of conditions, e.g.
for i)artitions whidt be-long to the restriction of a qmmtifier or whichare part of a specific sub-DRS.
Additionally, allthese special constants can be seen as pointers foradding o1" linking informal, ion within ml(t betweenmultiple levels of the VIT.Only the set of semantic onditions is shown in(2); the ot;her levels of the multi-dimensional VITret)resentation , whidt contain additional senmntic,2For l)resentaJ;ion purposes we have simplilied theactmd VIT representations.pragmatic, morpho-syntactic mid prosodic infor-mation, have been left, out here.
If necessary, suchadditional information can be used in transfer andsem;mtic evaluation for resolving ambiguities or ingeneration for guiding tile realization choices.
Fur-thermore, it .allows traasfer to make fine-graineddistinctions between alternatives in cases wherethe semantic representations of source mid targetlmlguage do not match up exactly.Semantic operators like negation, modals or in-tensitier adverbials, such as really, take extra labelarguments fi)r referring to other elements in theflat; list which m'e in the relative scope of theseoperators.aThis form of semantic representation has thefollowing adwmtages for transfer:?
It; is possible to preserve the underspecifica-tion of quantifier amd operator scope if thereis no divergence regarding scope ambiguitybetween Sollrce and target languages.?
Coindexation of labels and markers in thesource and target parts of transfer rules en-sures that the semantic entities are correctlyrelated and hence ()bey any semantic con-straints which may be linked to dram.To produce an adequate target utteranceadditional constraints whirl1 arc importantfor generation, e.g.
sortal, topic/focus con-straints etc., may be preserw;d.* There need not be a 1 : 1 relation betweensemantic entities and individual exical items.Instead, lexical units may be decomposed int;oa set of seinantic entities, e.g.
in the case ofderiwztions arid fi)r a nmre line grained lexicalsemantics.
Lexical decomposition allows us toexpress generalizations attd to apply transDrrules to parts of the decomposition.3 Our Transfer ApproachTransfer equivalences are stated as relations be-tween sets of source language (SL) and sets of tar-get language (TL) senlantie ntities.
They are usu-ally based on individual lexical items but mightalso involve partial phrases for treating idioms andother collocations, e.g.
verb-noun collocations (seeexample (8) below).
After skolemization of the se-n, antic representation the input to transfer is vari-able free.
This allows the use of logical variablesfor labels and markers in transfer ules to expresscoindexation constraints between individual enti-ties such as predicates, operators, quantifiers andaFor tim concrete exaanple at hand, the relativescope ha.s been fully resolved by using the explicit la-bds of other conditions.
If the scope were underspeci-fled, explicit subordination constraints would be usedin a speciM scope slot of the VIT.
The exact detailsof subordination are beyond tim scope of this paper,of, Prank aa~d Reylc (1995) and Bos et al (1996) forimplementations.317(abstract) thematic roles.
Hence the skolemiza-tion prevents unwanted unification of labels andmarkers while matching individual transfer ulesagainst he semantic representation.The general form of a transfer ule is given bySLSem, SLConds Tau0p TLSem, TLConds.where SLSem and TLSem are sets of semantic enti-ties.
Tau0p is an operator indicating the intendedapplication direction (one of <->,->,  <-).
SLeondsand TLConds are optional sets of SL and TL con-ditions, respectively.
All sets are written as Prologlists and optional conditions caa be omitted.On the source language, the main difference be-tween the SLSem and conditions is that the for-mer is matched against he input and replaced bythe TLSem, whereas conditions act as filters on theapplicability of individual transfer ules withoutmodifying the input representation.
Hence condi-tions may be viewed as general inferences whichyield either true or false depending on the context.The context might either be the local context asdefined by the current VIT or the global contextdefined via the domain and dialog model.
Thoseinferences might involve arbitrarily complex infer-ences like anaphora resolution or the determina-tion of the current dialog act.
In an interactivesystem one could even imagine that conditions areposed as yes/no-questions to tile user to act as anegotiator (Kay et al,  1994) for choosing the mostplausible translation.K the translation rules in (3) are applied to thesemantic input in (2a) they yield the semantic out-put in (2b).
We restrict the following discussionto the direction from German to English but therules can be applied in the other direction as well.
(3) a.
\[L:echt(A)\] <-> \[L:real(h)\].b.
\[L: passen (E) ,L: arg3 (E,Y) ,LI : bei (E,X)\] <->\[L:suit (E) ,L:arg2(E,X) ,L:arg3 (E,Y)\].c.
\[L:schlecht(E)\], \[Ll:passen(E)\] <->\[L:neg(A),A:good(E)\] .d.
\[L:ich(X)\] <-> \[L:ego(X)\].e.
\[L:pron(X)\] <-> \[L:pron(X)\].The simple lexical transfer rule in (3a) relates theGerman intensifier echt  with the English rea l  4.The:variables L and A ensure that the label andthe argument of the German echt are assigned tothe English predicate rea l ,  respectively.The equivalence in (3b) relates the Germanpredicate passen with the English predicate su i t .The rule not only identifies the event marker E,but unifies the instances X and Y of the relevantthematic roles.
Despite the fact that the Germanbei-phrase is analysed as an adjunct, it is treatedexactly like the argument arg3 which is syntacti-cally subcategorized.
This rule shows how struc-tural divergences can easily be handled within thisapproach.4The semantic predicate real abstracts away fromthe adjective/adverbial distinction.
(4) \ [L:passen(E),  L l :be i (E ,X) \ ]  <->\[L: su i t  (E), L: arg2 (E,X)\].The rule in (3b) might be further abbreviated to(4) by leaving out the unmodified arg3, because itis handled by a single metarule, which passes onall semantic entities that are preserved betweensource and target representation.
This also makesthe rule for (3e) superfluous, ince it uses an inter-lingua predicate for the anaphor in German andEnglish.The rule in (3c) illustrates how an additionalcondition (ILl  :passen(E) \ ] )  might be used totrigger a specific translation of schleeht into notgood in the context ofpassen.
The standard trails-lation of schlecht to bad is blocked for verbslike suit, that presuppose a positive attitudeadverbial.
5 One main advantage of having suchconditions is the preservation of the modularityof transfer equivalences because we do not have tospecify the translation of the particular verb whichonly triggers the specific translation of the adver-bial.
Consequently, the transfer units remain smalland independent of other elements, thus the in-terdependencies between different rules are vastlyreduced.
The handling of such rule interactions iknown to be one of the major problems in scalingup MT systems.A variation on example (1) is given in (5).
(5) a. Das paflt mir echt schleeht.b.
That really doesn't suit me well.Tile translation is exactly the same, but tile Ger-man verb passen takes an indirect object mir in-stead of the adjunct be/-phrase in (1).
The appro-priate transfer ule looks like (6a) which can bereduced to (6b) because no argument switchingtakes place and we can use the metarule again.
(6) a.\[L:passen(g) ,L:arg2(E,X) ,L:arg3(E,g)\]<->\[L: suit (E), L:arg2(E,X) ,L:arg3(E,Y)\] .b.
\[L:passen(E)\] <-> \[L:suit(E)\].In a purely monotonic system without overridingit would be possible to apply the transfer ule in(6b) to sentence (1) in addition to the rule in (4)leading to a wrong translation.
Whereas in theunderlying rule application scheme assumed here,the more general rule in (6b) will be blocked bythe more specific rule in (4).The specificity ordering of transfer rules isprimarily defined in terms of the cardinality ofmatching subsets and by the subsumption orderon terms.
In addition, it also depends on thecardinality and complexity of conditions.
For thepassen example at hand, the number of match-ing predicates in the two competing transfer ulesdefines the degree of specificity.~Instead of using a specific lexical item like passenthe rule should be abstracted for a whole class of verbswith similar properties by using a type definition, e.g.type (de, pos_att i tude_verbs,  \[gehen, passen .
.
.
.
\] ).For a description of type definitions ee (11) below.318The following example illustrates how condi-tions are used to enforce selectional restrictionsfrom the domain model.
For example ~rmin  inGerman might either be translal;ed as appointmentor as date, depending on the context.
(7) a.
\[L:termin(X)\] <-> It :appointment(X)\] .b.
\[L : terrain (X) \ ] ,\[sort(X)=<'temp_point\] <-> \[L:date(X)\].The second rule (7b) is more specific, because ituses an additional condition.
This rule will betried first by calling the external domain modelR)r testing whe.ther the sort assigned to X is notsuhsumed by the sort, letup_point.
Here, the firstrule (7a) serves as a kind of default with respect othe translation of Terrain, in cases where no spe-cific sort information on the marker X is awfilableor the condition in rule (7b) Nils.In (8), a light verb construction like einen Ter-minvorsehlag aachen is translated into su.qgest adate by decomposing the compound and light verbto a simplex verb and its modifying noun.
(8) \[L : machen (E) , L : arg3 (g, X) ,LI : terminvorschlag (X) \] <->\[L : sugge st (E) , L : arg3 (E, X), LI : date (X) \] .We close this section with a support verb example(9) showing the treatment of head switching in ourapproa.ch.
The German comparat;ive construct,ionlieber sei'n (lit.
:bc more liked) in (9a) is t;ranslatedby the verb prefer in (9t)).
(9) a. Diensta9 ist a i r  lieber.h.
\[ would l, refer Tuesday.
(IO) \[L : suppore (S, LI ), L2 : exper ioncer (S, X)LI :lieb(Y) ,LI: comparative(Y)\]  <->\[L:prefer (S) ,L: argl  (S,X) ,L: arg3 (S,Y)\] .The tra.nsfer ule in (10) matches the decoinposi-lion of the comI)at'at;ivt; form lieber into its posi-tive forin lieb atnt an additional comt)arative pred-icate toget;her with l;he.
support verb sei'n such t;IKtl;tile comparative construction lieber sein (g ist XliebeT) is translated as a whoh; to the English verbprefer (x prefers Y)..4 Discuss ionThe main motivation for using a senmntic-basedat)proach for transfer is the abilil;y to abstractaww froln morplioh)gical and syntactic idiosyn-crasies of individual languages.
Many of the, tra-ditional cases of divergences discussed, e.g.
byDorr (1994), at'e already handled in the Verbmobilsyntax-seniantics interface, hence they (lo notshow up in our transfer at)proach.
Examples in-clude cases of categorial and thematic divergences.These are treatt;d in tile linking between syntac-tic arguments and their corresponding thematicroles.Another advantage of a semantic-based t;rans-fer approach over a pure interlingua apt)roach,e.g.
Dorr (1993), or a direct sl;ructural c()rrespon-dence approach, e.g.
Slocum el; al.
(1987), is thegain in modularity by allowing language indepen-dent grammar development.
Translation equiva-lences relating semantic entities of the source andtarget grammars can be fi)mmlated in a grmnmarindependent bilingual semantic lexicon.
In caseswhere the semantic representations of source, andtarget language are not isomorphic, a nontrivialtransfer elation between the two representationsis needed.
But it is cleat'ly much easier to niap be-tween fiat semantic representations than betweeneither syntact;ic trees or deeply nested semanticre, presentationsAn inl;erlingua approadt presumes thai; a siregle representation for arbitrat'y languages existsor can be developed.
We believe fi-om a grammarengineering point of view it is unrealistic to cometip with such aai interlingua representation with-out a strict coordination between the monolingualgrammars.
In general, a pure interlingua pproachresults in very application and domain specificknowledge sources which at'e difficult to maintainatM extend to new languages anti domains.
Thisholds especially in the Verbmobil context with itsdistributed gratnmat- development.Whereas our approach does not preclude the useof interlingua predicates.
We use interlingua rep-resentations for time and date expressions in theVerbmobil domain.
Sinfilarly for prepositions, cf.Buschbeck-Wolf and Niibel (1995), it makes sense1,o use inore abstract relations which express tim-dmnental relationships like temporal location orspatial location.
Then it is left to the language spe-cific grammars to make the right lexical choices.
(11) a. type(de  , leap  lea ,  \ [an,  in ,um,zu \ ]  ) .b.
am Dienstag, im Mai, um drei, zu Osternc.
type(en , temp loc , \ [on , in ,a t \ ] ) .(t.
on Tuesday, in May, at three, at E~Lster'File class deiinitions in ( l la)  arid ( l lc)  clustertogether those prepositions which can be used t,oexpress a temporal location.
The names de and enare the SL and TL modules in which the (:lass isdeiined, temp loc  is the (:lass natne and the listdenotes the extension of the class.
(11b) and (11d)show possible German and English lexicalizations.
(12) \ [ temp_ loc (E ,X) \ ]  , \ [ sor t (X)=<t ime\ ]  <->\[temp loc (E ,X) \ ] .The interlingua rule in (12) identifies the abstractteinl)oral ocation predicates under the conditionthat the internal argument is more specitlc thanthe sort t ime.
This condition is necessary be-cause of the polysemy of those prepositions.
Dur-ing comt)ilation the SL class definition will be au-tomatically expanded to the individual predicates,whereas the TL class dclinition will be kept unex-panded such that the tat'get gratnmar might beable to choose one of the idiosyncratic preposi-tions.Mixed approaches like Kaptan et al (1989) canbe characterized by mapping syntax ,as well asa predicate-m'gument structure (f-structure).
As319already pointed out, e.g.
in (Sadler and Thomp-son, 1991), this kind of transfer has problems withits own multiple level mappings, e.g.
handling ofverb-adverb head switching, and does not cleanlyseparate monolingual from contrastive knowledge,either.
In Kaplan and Wedekind (1993) an im-proved treatment of head switching is presentedbut it still remains a less general solution.A semantic approach is much more indepen-dent of different syntactic analyses which axe thesource of a lot of classical translation problemssuch as structural and categorial divergences andmismatches.
In our approach grammars can be de-veloped for each language independently of thetransfer task and can therefore be reused in otherapplications.At first glance, our approach is very similarto the semantic transfer approach presented inAlshawi et al (1991).
It, uses a level of underspec-ified senmntic representations a  input and outputof transfer.
Tile main differences between out' ap-proach and theirs are the use of flat semantic rep-resentations and tile non-recursive transfer ules.Tile set-oriented representation allows much sim-pler operations in transfer for accessing individualentities (set membership) and for combining theresult of individual rules (set union).
Furthermore,because the recursive rule application is not partof tile rules themselves, our approach solves prob-lems with discontinuous translation equivalenceswhich tile former approach cannot handle well.
Atransfer ule for such a case is given in (4).Out" current apt)roach is strongly related totile Shake-and-Bake approach of Beaven (1992)and Whitclock (1992).
But instead of usingsets of lexical signs, i.e.
morpho-syntactic lex-emes as in Shake-and-Bake, we specify trans-lation cquivalences on sets of arbitrary seman-tic entities.
Therefore, before entering tile trans-fer component of our system, individual lex-emcs can already be decoinposcd into sets ofsuch entities, e.g.
for stating generalizations onthe lexical semantics level or providing suit-able representations for inferences.
For example,the wh-question word when is decomposed intotemp loc (E ,X) ,  whq(X,R), t ime(R,X) (lit.
: atwhich time), hence no additional transfer ules arerequired.
Similarly, German composita like Ter-minvorschlag axe decomposed into its compounds,e.g.
te rmin( i2 ) ,  n n ( i l ,?2) ,  vorsch lag( i l )where n_n denotes a generic noun-noun relation.As a result a compositional translation as proposalfor a date is possible without stating any addi-tional translation equivalences to the ones for thesimplex nouns.Another major difference is the addition of coil-ditions which trigger and block the applicability ofindividual transfer ules.
For instance in the spe-cific t,'anslation of schlecht o not good as definedin (3c), without conditions, one would have to addtile verb passen into the bag to test for such aspecific context.
As a consequence the translationof the verb needs to be reduplicated, whereas inour approach, the translation of the verb can bekept; totally independent of this specific transla-tion of tile adverbial, because the condition func-tions merely as a test.These examples also illustrates the usefulnessof labeled conditions, because the negation op-erator can take such a label as an argumentand we can use unification again to achievethe correct coindexation.
If we would use a hi-erarchical semantics instead, as in the origi-nal Shake-and-Bake aproach, where the negationoperator embeds the verb semantics we wouldhave to translate sch lecht  (e ) ,  passen(e)  intonot (su i t (e ) ,  we l l (e ) )  in one rule becausethere is no coindexation possible to express thecorrect embedding without the unique labeling ofpredicates.Finally, we have filled the lack of an adequatecontrol strategy for Shake-and-Bake by develop-ing a nonmonotonic control strategy which ordersmore specific rules before less specific ones.
Thisstrategy allows the specification of powerfifl de-fanlt translations.
Whereas without; such an or-dering special care is needed to prevent a compo-sitional translation in cases where a more specificnoncompositional translation also exists.The same argument about control holds in com-parison to the unification-based transfer approachon Mimimal Recursion Semantics (MRS) (Copes-take et al, 1995; Copestake, 1995).
In addition, weuse matching on first order terms instead of fea-ture structure unification.
Full unification mightbe problematic because it is possible to add ar-bitrary information during rule application, e.g.by further unifying different arguments.
The othermain difference is our nonmonotonic control com-ponent whereas tile MRS approach assumes amonotonic computation of all possible transferequiv'&lences which are then filtered by the gen-eration grammar.
It is difficult to judge the feasi-bility of their approach given the fact that only alimited coverage has been addressed so far.5 ImplementationA more detailed presentation of the implementa-tion aspects of our transfer approach can be foundin Dorna and Emele (1996).
The current transferimplementation consists of a transfer ule compilerwhich takes a set of rules likc the one presented insection 3 and compiles them into two executableProlog programs one for each translation direc-tion.
The compiled program includes the selectionof rules, the control of rule applications and callsto external processes if necessary.Because both the transfer input and the match-ing part of the rules consist of sets we can ex-ploit ordered set operations during compilation as320well as at runtime to speed up the matching pro-cess and for computing common prefixes which axeshared between different rules.The compiled trazlsfcr program is embcdded inthe incremental and parallel axchitecture of theVerbmobil Prototype.
Interaction with externalmodules, e.g.
the domain model and dialog mod-ule or other inference components, is done via a setof predefined abstract interface functions whidlmay be called in the condition part of transferrules.
The result is a hilly transpaxent and modu-lax interface for filtering the applicability of trans-fer rules.6 SummaryThis pai)er presents a new declarative transfi'.rrule forlnalisin, which provides an iInplementationplatform for a selnantic-based transfer approach.This approa(:h contl)ines ideas fronl a nunlber ofre('cnt MT proposals and tries to avoid many ofthe well known problems of other transfer and in-terlingua approaches.The deelaxativc trtmsfer correspondences m'ecompiled into an executable Prolog program.
Theconlpiler exploits indexing for more efficient searchof matching rules.
There is a nonnlonotonic butrule-independent control strategy based on riflespecificity.Currently, the transfer conlponent containsabout 1700 transfer ules.
Thanks to the set ori-entation and indexing techniques we did not en-counter any scaling problenls aald the average run-time pcrfornlanec for a 15 word sentence is about30 milliseconds.Fhture work will include tim automatic acqui-sition of transfer ules fronl tagged bilingual cor-pora to extend tim coverage and an integration ofdomain specific dictionaries.Re ferencesB.
Abb and  B. Buschbeck-Wol f ,  1995, A Minimal  TransferConcept ion  for Verbmobi l .
Vcrl)~nobil Repor t  84, Inst i tutefor Logic and  L inguist ics ,  IBM h l fo rn la t ionssysteme Gnfl)l lne ide lberg ,  Germany.\[t. Alshawi,  D. Car ter ,  M. nayner ,  and  B. Gamb~i.ck.
1991.T rans la t ion  by Quas i  Logical  Form Transfer .
In Proceedingsof the 29th Annual Meeting of the Association for" Compu-tational Lingnistics (ACL '91), pages 161-168, Berkeley.J .
L. Beaven.
1992.
Shake-and-Bake  Machine Trans lat ion .
InProceedings of the 14th International Conference on Corn-putational Linguistics (COLING '9~), Nantes,  France.J.
Bos, B. Gambaek ,  C. Lieske, Y. Mort, M. F inkal ,  andK.
Worm.
1996.
Compos i t iona l  Semant ics  in Verl)mobil.In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference onComputational Linguistics (COLING '96).B.
Busehbeck-Wol f  and  R. Niibel.
1995.
Die Behandhmg iiber-se tzungsambiger  P i4posit ionen im Transfer  des Verbmobi l -Demonst ra tors .
Verbmobil Repor t  87, IBM, t le ide lberg andIAI, Saarbr i icken,  Germany.n .
Caspar i  and  L. Schndd.
1994.
Pars ing  und Gener ie ruug inqYUG.
Verbmobil Repor t  40, Siemens AG, Munich,  Ger-IOal,y.A.
Copestake,  11.
F l ickinger,  R. Malouf,  S. l/.iehemamm, and1.
Sag.
1995.
Transfer  and  Minimal  Recurs ion Semant ics .In Proceedings of the 6th International Conference onTheoretical and Methodological Issues in Machine 7~rans -Is|ion (TM!
'95), Leuven,  Belg ium.A.
Copes|eke.
1995.
Semant ic  T rans fer  in Verbmobi l .Verbmobil Repor t  93, IMS, Universit i i t  S tu t tgar t ,  Germanyand CSLI ,  S tanford  University.M.
Dorna  and  M. Emele.
1996.
Emc ient  iml f lementat ioaof a semant ic -baaed t ransfer  approach .
In Proceedings o\[the 12th European Conference on Artificial Intelligence(EC'AI '96).M.
Dorna.
1996.
Ttle ADT-Package for the Verbmobil In-terface Term.
Verbmob/ /  Repor t  104, IMS, Universit i i tS tu t tgar t ,  Germany.
(to appear ) .B.
J .
Dorr.
1993. ln ter l ingua l  Machine Trans lat ion:  a Parame-ter ized Approach .
volume 6311-21 of  Artificial Intelligence,pages 429-493.B.
J .
Dorr.
1994.
Machine "lYanslation Divergences:  a For-mal  Descr ipt ion and Proposed Solut ion.
volmne 20(4) ofComputational Linguistics, pages 597-633.D.
Dowty.
1989.
On the Sen,ant ic  Content  of the Not ion of'Themat ic  Role' .
In G. Chierehia,  B.
Par tee ,  and  R. Turner ,editors,  Property Theory, 7Ope Theory and Natural Lan-guage Semantics.
Dordrecht ,  Reidel.M.
Egg and  K. Lebeth.
1995.
Semant ic  mtderspec i f icat ionand  modit ier  a t tachment  ambigui t ies .
In Beitrligc zur 5.l,'achtaguug der Sektion (\]omputerlingnistik der 1)~fS.A.
F rank  and  U. Reyle.
1995.
Pr inc ip le  Based Semant ics  fort IPSG.
In Proceedings of the 7th Conference of the Euro-pean Ghapter of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics (EAUL '95), Dubl in ,  I re land.W.
J. l lu tch ins  and H. L. Somers.
1992.
An Introduction toMachine Translation.
Academic  Press,  London,  UK.Hans  Kamt l  and  Uwe Reyle.
1993.
From Discourse to Logic:An Introduction to Modeltheoretic Semantics of NaturalLan9nage.
Kluwer,  Dordrecht ,  t to l land.tt.. M. Kap lan  and  J. Wedekind.
1993.
Restr ic t ion andeorrespondance-ba.qed t rans lat ion.
In Proceedings of the6th Conference o\] the European Chapter of the Associ-ation for C~omputational Linguistics (EAUL '931, pages193 202, Utrecht ,  The Nether lands .t?.
Kap lan ,  K. Netter ,  J .
Wedekind,  and  A. Zaenen.
1989.qYans\]at ion by St ructura l  Cor respondences .
In Proceedingsof the 4th Uonfereuce of the European Chapter of tht:Association for Computational Linguistics (EACL '891,pages 272-281,  Manchester ,  UK.M.
Kay,  M. Gawron ,  and  'I J. Norwig.
1994.
Verbmobil: aTranslation System for Face-to-Face Dialogs.
CSLI Lec-ture Notes; No.
33.
CSLI  Center  for the Study  of Languageand  In format ion ,  S tanford  University.A.
Ki lger and  W. F inkler .
1995.
Incrementa l  Generat ion  forRea l -T ime Appl icat ions.
Research Repor t  RR-95-11,  I)FK1GmbH,  Saarbr i ieken,  Germany.M.
Nagao,  U. Tsuji i ,  and U. Nakamura .
1985.
The  JapaneseGovernment  P ro jec t  for Machine Trans lat ion .
vo lmne l 1 (2-3) of (:ornputational Linguistics, pages 91-110.T.
Parsons.
1991.
Events in the Semantics of English.
M1TPress,  Cambr idge ,  Mass.U.
Reyle.
1993.
Deal ing with Ambigu i t ies  by Underspec i -l ication: Const ruct ion ,  Representat ion  and  Deduct ion.
InJonnal of Semantics, volume 10(2), pages  123 179.L.
Sadler and  II.
S. Thompson.
1991.
S t ructura l  Non-cor respondence  in Trans lat ion .
In Proceedings of thee 5thConference of the European Chapter of the Associationfor Computational Lin.quistics (EAC~L '91), pages 293298, Ber l in,  Germany.3.
S locum, W. S. Bennet ,  J.
Bear,  M. Morgan,  and  R. Root.1987.
METAL:  The  LIt.C Machine Trans la t ion  System.
InS.
Michaelson and  Y. Wilks, edi tors ,  Machine Translationtoday: the state of the art, pages 319-350.
Ed inburgh  Uni-versity Press.B.
Vauquois  and C. Boitet.
1985.
Automated  Trans la t ionat  Grenob le  Univers i ty.
vo lume 1111) of ComputationalLinguistics, pages 28-36.W.
Wahlster .
1993.
Verbmobi l  - -  "lYanslation of Face-to-FaceDialogs.
In Proceedings of the 4th Machine TranslationSummit, Kobe,  Japan .P.
White lock.
1992.
Shake-and-Bake  Trans lat ion .
In Proceed-ings of the Igth International Conference on (Jornpnta-tional Linguistics (C*OLING '9~), pages 784-791,  Nantes,France.321
