Instrumental Technologies vs Teaching Instruments:A challenge for Computational LinguistsRobert  DebskiThe Horwood Language CentreThe Univers i ty  o f  Me lbourneGrattan StreetParkvi l le,  Vic 3052, Austral iadebsk i@le land.stanford.eduAs language learning theories shifted fi'ombelief in rote practice to communicativeapproaches, CALL--initially in consonance withthe on-going practice--found itself increasinglyat odds with teaching oals, and, consequently,was placed outside of the classroom.
In order toincrease the quality of human-computerinteraction, CALL specialists turned to CL andAI.
This resulted in the creation of simulationsand text manipulation programs designed toexpand students' exposure to a foreign languageoutside of the classroom, or to take over theteaching of chosen language skills lendingthemselves to computerization.
Emphasis oncognitive processes in language learninginspired the building of small environments inwhich students could learn through explorationin ways similar to those proposed formathematics by Logo advocates.
Computertechnology, however, did not fulfill theexpectations of language teachers.Networking and multimedia seem to offer ananswer to the issue of making CALL morecompliant with communicative teaching byfostering human to human communication andcreative endeavor, as students engagethemselves in learning driven by goal-orientedtasks.
Computer mediation has stopped beingsynonymous with language practice in alinguistically impoverished environment.
Justthe reverse, contemporary network-basedmultimedia environments can increase theamount of comprehensible input both in and outof the classroom, supporting languageacquisition from diversified input.
This newlanguage learning notion has already had impacton teaching practice.Although emphasizing the importance ofbringing language learners together, network-based environments will continue to containthesauri and lexicons, such as GLEn-D. Housedin Stanford's Sybase, this Polish-Englishlearners' dictionary offers lookup of word flwmsreturning sound and graphics, and offeringaccess to a discourse database.
The currentlyavailable Macintosh front-end can easily beported to other platforms, including the Web.Future network-based teaching/learningenvironments may contain personalizedinformation filtering systems, determiningcontents and language levels of availablematerials.
Software employing NLP methodsmay track communication between distancedlearners, keep logs of errors, and suggest areasof further study.
The fast development of theInternet has increased the availability ofresources for sell'instructed language study.Although interpersonal connections shouldremain at the core of any learning environment,interactive instruments of linguistic inquiry,individualization, and assessment are importantelements of such systems in the absence ofteachers.
In addition to investigating human-computer interactions, CALL employing CLmethods will focus on the mediational use ofcomputers in which identification, access andsharing of resources, and human-to-humancontact play a significant role.Networks connect not only learners andteachers, but also resources.
SKRYBA--amodule for self-adaptive practice of Polishorthography--is part of a whole system ofapplications.
It is responsible for rule-basedanalysis of texts and preparation of code to bepassed over and executed by a blankingapplication (Zippity-Zap), producing anexercise with deletions in places identified bythe system as succeptible to orthographic errors.Student completions are returned to SKRYBAand analysed.
GLEn-D is consulted bySKRYBA whenever specific information (e.g.,part of speech) is needed to facilitate blankingor interpretation.1014Developing network-based learningenvironments calls for collaboration.
Newsolutions to issues surrounding language and itsacquisition are more likely to emerge fromexchange of ideas between disciplines, ratherthan from convictions entrenched within asingle field.1015
