Multiple Discourse Relationson the Sentential Level in JapaneseYoshiki Mori*Depar tment  of  Computat iona l  L inguist icsUn ivers i ty  of  the  Saar landPost fach  151150D-66041 Saarbr f lcken,  Germanye-mail: mori~coli.uni-sb.deAbst ractIn the spoken language machine trans-lation project Verbmobil, the seman-tic formalism Language for Underspec-ified Discourse representation structures(LUD) is used.
LUD describes a num-ber of DRSs and allows for underspec-ification of scopal ambiguities.
Dealingwith Japanese-to-English translation be-sides German-to-English poses challeng-ing problems.
In this paper, a treatmentof multiple discourse relation construc-tions on the sentential level is discussed.These are common in Japanese but causea problem for the formalism.
It is shownthat the underspecification is to be rep-resented for them, too.
Additionally, itis possible to state a semantic onstrainton the resolution of multiple discourserelations which seems to prevail over thesyntactic -command constraint.1 In t roduct ionIn the Verbmobil project, a spoken languagemachine translation system is being developed.Its dialogue domain is restricted to appointmentscheduling.
For the semantic analysis, a versionof Discourse Representation Theory is used whichcan express underspecification a d take composi-tionality into account.
The semantic onstructionis represented by LUD, Language for Underspec-ified Discourse Representation Structures (Bos etal., 1996), which takes discourse representationThis research was funded by the German FederalMinistry of Education, Science, Research, and Tech-nology (BMBF) under grant number 01 IV 101 R.A big bunch of thanks goes to Johan Bos, Bj6rnGamb?ck, Claire Gardent, Christian Lieske, ManfredPinkal and Karsten Worm for their valuable com-ments, and to Feiyu Xu and Julia Heine for a kindhelp editing the text.structures (henceforth DRSs) as its object lan-guage.The main focus of the project is on translationfrom German to English, but it also treats thatfrom Japanese to English.
As for the semanticconstruction, it is aimed at that semantic analy-ses of Japanese as well as German should be donein the same formalism, which is especially chal-lenging, taking differences of the two languagesinto account: compared to languages like Germanand English, peculiarities of Japanese such as theabsence of definite articles seem to invite commonsemantic analyses based on underspecification.For example, in the current LUD-formalism it isassumed that a discourse relation has the widestscope among the scope-taking elements in a sen-tence except for the scope of sentence mood.
ThusLUD allows for only one discourse relation ineach sentence.
Discourse relations contain notonly such relations expressed by subordinate con-junctions as explanation relations (because), ad-verse relations (though) and temporal relations(before, after etc.
), but also purpose, conditionaland topic-comment relations.
We interpret hemas relations between two DRSs, consisting of re-striction (the antecedent part) and scope (the con-clusion part).In Japanese, it is possible and even common touse a number of discourse relations in one sen-tence.
Lexical entries which realize discourse rela-tions occur in various grammatical positions.
Dis-course relation elements can be also classified ac-cording to the anaphoricity of the elements ex-pressing the antecedent part and those expressingthe conclusion part.
In Fig.
1 an explanation re-lation in the subordinate conjunction and anotherone in the modality auxiliary are used togetherwith a topic relation.For this case, the current reatment of LUD im-plies that the widest scope should be assigned toany discourse relation.
This extension of the for-malism poses a serious problem: every discourse788getsuyoubi-wa seminaa-ga haitteiru-node zikan-ga na-i nodamonday-top seminar-nora insertasp-pres-conj time-nora fail-prcs aux-presMonday (isn't good) because I don't have any time,since some seminars have been inserted (then)Figure h Three discourse relations in a sentencerelation introduces a partition into the antecedentand the conclusion part for the sentence in whichit occurs .
1If there are a number of discourse relation ele-ments contained in a sentence, the partitions theyintroduce can differ from each other (see Sec.
2).While scopal relations of quantifiers normally canbe aligned, scopal relations can, but do not haveto be built between discourse relations, and be-tween scope-taking elements in general.
Seman-tically, this is one of the main reasons that un-derspecification should be introduced rigorously.Nevertheless, some regular scopal relations maybe found among discourse relations (and again ingeneral among scope-taking elements).
These re-lations are determined not only syntactically, butalso by way of semantics and discourse structure.The paper outlines a treatment of multiple dis-course relations on the sentential level in two as-pects.
First, it proposes an underspccified treat-ment also for these cases along the lines of quanti-tiers and other operators.
Secondly, it suggestssome typical orders in which the scopal under-specification among discourse relations can be re-solved.
The paper is organized in tile followingway.
In Section 2, multiple discourse phenomenaarc presented in terms of an example.
In Section 3,tile formalism of LUD is introduced.
In Section 4,a representation for multiple discourse relationsis proposed.
Section 5 discusses possible resolu-tions, in which a relationship between semanticsand discourse structure plays an important role.2 D iscourse  Re la t ions  in  JapaneseAs mentioned above, it is apparent in Japanesethat a sentence can include a number of discourserelation elements (Fig.
1).
Keeping track of the as-sumption that all discourse relations in a sentencetake a wider scope than the other scope-taking el-ements in a sentence, we are confronted with thel Since the Verbmobil project deals with spokenlanguages, the unit treated is in reality not a sen-tence but an utterance which constitutes a turn ina dialogue and includes ellipsis mM other typical phe-nomena which need special treatments.
Here, how-ever, the linguistically abstract unit of sentence willbe presupposed.next question which kind of relative scope holdsamong discourse relations.
The treatment of dis-course relations should thus be modified at leastin these respects.A discourse relation is represented in LUD as apredicate with three arguments; the first one is aterm for the type of the concerning discourse re-lation, the second one is an underspecified scopedomain of the antecedent part, and the last one isanother underspecified scope domain for the con-clusion part.
An underspecified scope domain isrepresented by a hole.In Japanese sentences, discourse relations occurin various grammatical positions.
The sentence inFig.
1 contains at least three different discourserelations.
First, there is a topic relation which isexpressed by a so-called topic phrase marked bywa.
It is encoded in tile LUD as in (1) (of.
Asher'selaboration relation (Asher, 1993)).
In Japanese,the antecedent part can be syntactically deter-mined, so far as the topic phrase is expressed withthe topic marker.
In Fig.
1, getsuyoubi amountsto this part.
(1)(2)(3)12-d iscre l ( top ic ,h l ,h2)14-discrel(explanation-noda,hS,h6)13-discrel(explanation-node,h3,h4)Fig.
1 also contains a discourse relation ex-pressed by the auxiliary noda in the modality po-sition of the verbal complex of the conclusion partof the sentence.
Semantically, it is an subordinaterelation of explanation.
It consists of a functionalnoun for the senteutial nominalization o and thecopula.
The use of noda is dif\[crent from the nor-real use of the copula in that it takes a temporal-ized sentence as a complement and, at the sametime, lacks the argument of the copular predica-tion.
It is this lacking argument which makes upthe conclusion part of the discourse relation (h6in (2)).
h5 will be bound to a DRS which is con-structed out of the sentence subordinated to noda,that is, the whole sentence.Finally, a discourse relation expressed by a sub-ordinate conjunction node can be found in Fig.
1,too (3).
This form can be seen as a participle form(re-form) of noda mentioned above.
Semantically,the meaning is restricted to explanation.
There-fore, the term for the discourse relation type isbasically the same as (2).Even taking these pieces of information into ac-count, the scope relations both between wa anduoda and between wa and node seem to be un-derspecified, whereas noda always has scope overnode.
Since every discourse relation has two scope789domains, this observation leads to the followingpossibilities of scopal relations for Fig.
1.2 Thesescopal relations are at least theoretically able tobe forced onto the sentence in Fig.
1 (see See.
5).
(4) wa (monday ,noda (node (h3 ,h4) , anaphoric) )(5) noda (wa(monday,node (h3 ,h4) ) , anaphoric)(6) noda(node (wa(monday,h2) ,h4) ), anaphoric)(7) noda (node (h3, wa (monday ,h2) ) ), anaphoric)3 Theoret i ca l  F ramework :DRT and  LUDSince the Verbmobil domain is spoken dialoguesrather than isolated sentences, it is natural tochoose a variant of Discourse Representation The-ory, DRT (Kamp and Reyle, 1993), as the frame-work of its semantic formalism.
To treat scopeambiguities and other underspecification phenom-ena adequately, we have, however, needed to ex-tend the formalism to one which suits for repre-senting underspecified structures (Bos, 1995).
Asfurther described in (Bos et al, 1996), LUD isa declarative description language for underspeei-fled DRSs.
The basic idea is that natural anguageexpressions are not directly translated into DRSs,but into a representation that describes a numberof DRSs.
It is different from UDRS (Reyle, 1993)in that not only DRSs, but all predicates and dis-course markers are labeled.
Moreover, holes forscope domains are discerned from other labels.A LUD-representation U is a triple U =<Hu, Lu, Cv >, where Hu is a set of holes (vari-ables over labels), Lu is a set of labeled conditions,and C~r a set of constraints.
Holes are special la-bels for the slot of an operator's cope domain.
Ahole will be bound by means of a plugging func-tion to a standard label which stands for a DRSof a certain element.The set of constraints is divided into a l fa  con-ditions and leq  (less-or-equal) conditions, a l faconditions define presuppositions and anaphorierelations.
They stipulate relations of those DRSswhich do not come into scope relations to thoseDRSs which do.
leq  conditions, on the otherhand, define partial order constraints betweenholes and labels which give a semi-lattice struc-ture on Hv  UCcr with a hole at the top (tophole).
They should be maintained in the defini-tion of a consistent subordination relation.
Thelatter, called a possible plugging, fully specifies2In tl~s example, each discourse relation elementis taken as a predicate with the antecedent and theconclusion part as its arguments.the relations of holes to labels by way of an injec-tive plugging function from holes to labels, whichdetermines which hole is instantiat'ed into by (oris bound to) which label.
The interpretation ofa possible plugging at the top hole is the inter-pretation of the matrix DRS.
In this way, a LUD-representation describes a set of possible pluggingsat once.There are two main exceptions to this charac-terization of LUD.
First, modifiers share its in-stance with the modified DRS and show no differ-ent scopal behavior.
Secondly, DRSs for discourserelations are assumed to always instantiate intothe top hole.
In the current version, the top holeis simply assumed to be the hole argument of thesentence mood predicate of the main clause.4 Representat ions  fo r  mul t ip led i scourse  re la t ionsIn the Verbmobil semantic onstruction, Japanesedialogues are analysed within the same theoreti-cal framework and with largely identical semanticmacros as German ones.
In order to apply thetheory and implementation of LUD to Japanese,some modifications are needed.
As for discourserelations, a major source of complication comesfrom the assumption that predicates for discourserelations have two holes as their arguments.
Thefirst problem lies in the fact that everything thatgoes into a leq  relation to one hole cannot be ina leq  relation to the other hole of the same dis-course relation predicate because of its partition-ing character.
Another problem is the treatmentof multiple occurrences of discourse relations in asentence.
We will be concentrated on the latterproblem in the following sections.For the problem of processing multiple dis-course dependencies there are a few approaches(Mann et al, 1992; Kurohashi and Nagao, 1994).
(Gardent, 1994) uses Tree Inserting Grammarbased on the feature-based Tree Adjoining Gram-mar (Vijay-Shanker and Joshi, 1988) to developa formal theory about a discourse semantic repre-sentation.
This paper is distinguished from theseworks in two perspectives: First, it concentrateson the sentential level and offers a treatment ofmultiple discourse relations in terms of a formal-ism for underspecified structures of DRSs.
Sec-ondly, it does not concern multi-functions of onediscourse relation element, but multiple occur-rences of various discourse relation elements.As suggested above, discourse relation elementshave the following characteristic n LUD.
The twoholes which are contained in each of them parti-tion the sentence in which the element occurs into790two parts, whereas it will be subordinated to an-other hole by way of a leq  constraint as a "unit".This has lead to the decision that a discourse re-lation element should be directly subordinated tothe top hole.
Other labels for DRSs should besubordinated to the discourse relation element inthe way in which each of them is unambiguouslysubordinated to one of its two holes.
The firstproblem mentioned at the beginning of this sec-tion can be dealt with in this manner if only onediscourse relation element occurs in a sentence.At least two problems remain when there area number of discourse relation elements in a sen-tence.
First, if we keep the solution above, dis-course relation elements in the sentence are allcandidates for the directly subordinated positionto the top hole in a semi-lattice structure.
Sec-ondly, each discourse relation element introducesa different partition of the given sentence.For a general solution, the paper proposes a de-vice to introduce a special kind of predicate modewhich has a hole as the only argument for the bot-tom of a lattice structure which is built by the tophole and discourse relation elements.
This enablesus to keep the decision, on the one hand, that dis-course relation elements are in a next-to-top osi-tion in a possible plugging and to keep DRSs forother parts of the sentence underneath the modepredicate, on the other.
Every discourse relationis situated above any other scope-taking element.This proposal crucially relies on the fact that forevery discourse relation element which occurs ina sentence, one of its two holes can be pluggedby a DRS in a lexically determined way.
Addi-tionally, it is assumed that we have a syntacticstrategy in which the topic phrase is dealt withas an adjunct modification which should be in-terpreted in the discourse structure with respectto the main predicate of a sentence.
Therefore,what is subordinated to the hole introduced bythe mode predicate amounts to the matrix clauseof the given sentence.
In this way, an ordinaryunderspecification treatment of multiple discourserelations among each other gets possible.For the sentence in Fig.
1, the LUD-representation can be implemented like in(8).
Labels are represented under lud preds.lud_grouping and lud_mota show among otherswhich labels are to be treated together to con-struct DRSs.
Under lud_scoping,  a l fa  and loqconditions are found.
The labels 112 and 113 arepresuppositions of 18 and 111. leq relations readthat labels are always less or equal to labels in thegiven order.
Fig.
2 is a graphical representationof the loq constraints of (8).
Discourse relationsand discourse markers are abbreviated to d i sc ro land din, respectively.
(8) index: (i8,118,h0)lud_preds: ll-mood (deal ,hO)12-discrel (topic, hl, h2)13-discrel (node ,h3 ,h4)14-discrel (noda ,h5 ,h6)16-dm(iD17-predicate (get suyoub i, i I )19-dm(i2)1 lO-predicate (halite, i2)11 O-role ( i2, art3, i3)lll-role(i2,tloc,i4)112-dm(i5)114-dm(i6)115-predicat e (seminaa, i6)116-dm(i~)117-mo de (h7)119-dm(iS)120-predicat e (zikan, i8)122-dm(i9)ll3-neg (i9,h8)lud_grouping : 15-inc ( \[16,17\] )18-inc (\[19,110\])113-inc ( \[114,115\] )ll8-inc ( \[119,120\] )121-inc ( \[122,123\] )lud_meta: modifies(18,111)lud_scoping : alfa(i6,udef, 18,113)alfa(iS,pron,lll,112)leq(12 ,hO)leq(13 ,hO)leq(14,hO)leq(15,hl)leq(18,h3)leq(ll6,h6)leq(llZ,h2)leq(117,h4)leq(llT,h5)leq(ll8,hT)leq(118,h8)leq(121 ,h7)The mode predicate can be seen as a secondarysentence mood predicate.
For example, it servesin a similar way to the predicate used for the intro-duction of a propositional complement of propo-sitional attitude verbs.
This kind of use of themode predicate does not seem to be restricted todiscourse relations.
For example, multiple oc-curences of modal expressions how a concertedbehavior as regards copal relations as in "we canperhaps meet there".
The mode predicate is ap-plicable when multiple occurrences of predicatesin one semantic lass take a scope over any otherscope-taking elements together but the scope re-lations among each other are underspecified.5 Poss ib le  Reso lu t ionsIt is sometimes possible to resolve scopal un-derspecifications of discourse relations on severalgrounds.
Actually, there seems to be only one79112-discrel(wa, hi, h2) 13-discrel(node,h3,h4 14-discrel(noda,hS,h6)15-inc\[16,17\] ~06)  ........ / 1-~7_mLoderh7 ' unbound16-dm(il) 115-pred(~emin~,i6) / H/-: ~17-pred (getsugoobi ,il) - k, // 112-inc\[122,123\]alfa(i6,udef,18,113) '~ /ll2-dm(i5) " ' " ', / 122-dm(t9)" " .
al fa(i5,pron,111,112) ' /  123.:.aeg(i9,h8)" ' -  18- inc\[19,110\]111- ro le ( i2 , t loc , i4 )  ~ 19 -dm 02) 118-inc\[119,120\]modifies ll0 -pred(haitte, i2) ll9-dm(i8)110 - role(i2,arg3,i3) 120-pred(zikan,i8)Figure 2: A graphical representation f the sentence in Figure 1plausible resolution possibility for the sentence ofFig.
1.
This resolution possibility corresponds to(5).
The plugging function for this case is as fol-lows (9).
It should be read such that a label isbound to (plugged into) a hole.
(9) plug_into (14,hO)plug_into (12,h5)plug_into (13,h2)Confinement of resolution possibilities dependson various factors.
One of the most important fac-tors is lexical determination of the scope domainsof the antecedent part or the conclusion part of adiscourse relation.
Especially when one of the twois determined as anaphoric, that is, sentence x-ternal, the scope of this discourse relation seemsto be wider than the others, noda in Fig.
1 is anexample for this.
In the same vein, the scope ofnoda supercedes that of a conditional discourse re-lation nara in Fig.
3.
The latter's scope domainsof the antecedent as well as the conclusion partare sentence internal.gogo-nara yamada-ga i-ru nodaafternoon-cond PN-nom be-pres aux-pres(If you mean) the afternoon, Yamada will be hereFigure 3: Discourse relations with and withoutanaphoric forceAmong discourse relations with sentence xter-nal anaphoric binding there are two types: thosewhose antecedent part is bound sentence xter-nally and those whose conclusion part is boundsentence externally.
Discourse relation parti-cles like dakara (therefore) belong to the former(Fig.
4), subordinate xplanation relations likenoda belong to the latter.dakara getsuyoubi-de daijoubu-des-utherefore monday-oblwith okay-cop-pres(I) am therefore ready for mondayFigure 4: A relation with auaphoric antecedentThough the semantics of so-called topic phrasesmarked by wa goes beyond the scope of this paper,we assume that their discourse relations belongs tothose whose antecedent part and conclusion partare both plugged sentence internally.
This pre-dicts a narrower scope than that of the subordi-nate relation noda.
This not only corresponds tothe intuition in (9), but is also the case in Fig.
5.gogo-wa yamada-ga i-ru nodaafternoon-top PN-nom be-pres aux-pres(as \]or) the afternoon, Yamada will be hereFigure 5: A topic relation getting narrow scope792On the other hand, scope underspecificationamong discourse relations cannot be disam-biguated straightforwardly if they are of the sametype according to the above classification.
Theycan all be of the type whose antecedent and con-clusion part are both bound sentence internally.In this case, the resolution seems to depend on thesyntactic -command information.
This explainsthe stipulated scope relation between the topic waand the explanative node in (9).
(In (9), the scoperelation is also influenced by antecedent resolutionof the temporal-local modification which is neededfrom the syntactic information.)
The same ex-planation holds for the scope difference which isobservable between the two sentences in Fig.
6.getsuyoubi-wa gogo-nara daijoubu-damonday-top afternoon-cond okay-coppresAs \]or Monday, it is ok i\] it is in the a\[ternoongogo-nara getsuyoubi-wa daijoubu-daaftcrnoon-cond monday-top okay-cop-prcsI\] it is in the afternoon, the Monday is okayFigure 6: Topic and conditional relationsDiscourse relations can, in contrast, all be of thetype whose antecedent part or conclusion part isbound sentence xternally.
This can be observedin Fig.
7.
Not only the syntactic modality auxil-iary noda, but also the discourse particle dakaraincludes a part which is bound sentence xternally.To the extent that the c-command relation is un-clear between them, the resolution remains un-clear here.dakara ike-na-i nodes-utherefore gomid-auxneg-pres aux-pres(It is since) (0 could ,,ot go because of itFigure 7: Two relations with anaphoric force6 Conc lus ionsThe LUD formalism that describes DRSs in an un-derspecified way also pertains to dealing with mul-tiple discourse relation constructions, which arecommon in Japanese.
The problem is to distin-guish the discourse relations which take the widescope relative to other scope-taking elements onthe one hand and to have them underspecifiedamong each other, on the other.
The solution hasa general character; several scope-taking elementscan go into scope relations collectively if they be-long to the same semantic lass.
The scope amongthem is underspecified again.
This treatment re-flects the fact that each element can introduce adifferent partition of the same sentence.We have also stated an interesting semantic on-straint on the resolution of multiple discourse re-lations which seems to prevail over the syntacticc-command constraint: discourse relations houldbe scopally compared with each other on the crite-ria whether the restriction (antecedent part) or tothe scope (conclusion part) of a discourse relationhas an anaphoric force.Re ferencesNicholas Asher.
1993.
Reference to Abstract Ob-jects in Discourse.
Kluwer, Dordrecht, Holland.Johan Bos, Bj6rn GambKck, Christian Lieske,Yoshiki Mori, Manfred Pinkal, and KarstenWorm.
1996.
Compositional semantics in Verb-mobil.
In Proceedings of the 16th Interna-tional Conference on Computational Linguis-tics, Koebcnhavn, Denmark, August.
ACL.Johan Bos.
1995.
Predicate logic unplugged.In Proceedings of the lOth Amsterdam Collo-quium, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam,tIolland.Claire Gardent.
1994.
Discourse multiple de-pendencies.
ILLC-report, University of Ams-terdam, Amsterdam, Holland.Hans Kamp and Uwe Reyle.
1993.
From Dis-course to Logic: An Introduction to Modelthe-oretic Semantics of Natural Language, FormalLogic and DRT.
Kluwer, Dordrecht, Holland.Sadao Kurohashi and Makoto Nagao.
1994.Automatic detection of discourse structure bychecking surface information in sentences.
InProceedings of the 15th International Confer-ence on Computational Linguistics, pages 1123-1127, Kyoto, Japan, August.
ACL.William C. Mann, Christian M.I.M.
Mathiessen,and Sandra Thompson.
1992.
Rhetorical struc-ture theory and text analysis.
In W.C. Mannand S.A. Thompson, editors, Discourse De-scription.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam, Hol-land.Uwe Reyle.
1993.
Dealing with ambiguities by un-derspecification: Construction, representationand deduction.
Journal of Semantics, 10:123-179.K.
Vijay-Shanker and A.K.
Joshi.
1988.
Featurestructure based tree adjoining grammars.
InProceedings of the 12th International Confer-ence on Computational Linguistics, volume 2,pages 714-719, Budapest, Hungary, August.ACL.793
