Human Language Technology can modernize writing and grammar instructionGerard KempenUniversity of LeidenP.O.
Box 9555, 2300 RB Leiden, The Netherlandskempen @rulfsw.leidenuniv.nlThe recently published Survey of the State of theArt in Human Language Technology does notspend a single word on computer-aided languagelearning (CALL).
Indeed, present-day CALLsystems hardly employ Natural LanguageProcessing (NLP) techniques.
Reasons for thisstate of affairs are not hard to find.
First of all,current language teaching methods tend toemphasize oral language skills, especially insecond-language instruction.
But automaticrecognition of speech, in particular speech bynon-natives, has only taken its first steps outsidethe laboratory; and many language teachers tilljudge synthesized speech of insufficient qualityto serve as a model for language learners.Secondly, modern language pedagogy stressescommunicative success rather than formalcorrectness.
This, too, works against theprofitable deployment of NLP tools in CALLbecause automatically generating non-trivial,communicatively interesting and instructivedialogues does not yet seem within reach of NLPtechnology, let alne the evaluation of studentresponses from the point of view of successfulinterpersonal communication.
More congenialwith these priorities were multimediainnovations.
If anything has brought about ametamorphosis in second-language t achingpractices, it was the introduction of affordablevideo, audio and other graphical and acoustictools that, under the control of flexible software,can create an illusion of 'total immersion'--thesupposedly ideal language learning situation.However, language proficiency includes morethan conversational skills alone.
Equallyimportant are writing skills: orthography,formulating well-formed sentences, composingclear and well-organized texts.
It is in the area ofwritten language instruction that NLPtechnology can find a wealth of extremelyvaluable applications.
Teaching first- andsecond-language writing skills is very labor-intensive because teachers need to mark largenumbers of test papers.
NLP software holds thepotential of alleviating this burden considerably,and even of outperforming teachers in the speedand quality of feedback to learners, and in thecapability of generating well-targeted andattractive xercises.A particularly important reason why humanlanguage technology should begin to takewritten hmguage instruction seriously, derivesfrom the following argument.
Many instructionalscientists ubscribe to the view that languageskills are best acquired in a situation similar tothat of children learning their mother tongne.This explains not only the bias in favor of oraland conversational language skills in currenthmguagc pedagogy but also the reluctance towork with explicit grammar ules.
The negativeattitude toward grammar is strengthened by thegenerally disappointing outcomes of grammar-based language teaching methods.However, these negative results may have acompletely different origin.
Although thereasoning that language acquisition can dowithout explicit rules may hold for orallanguage proficiency, there is no evidence that itgeneralizes to the acquisition of written languageskills.
If writing skills do require the applicationof explicit orthographic, morphological,syntactic, etc., rules by the learner, then anti-grammar attitudes must be detrimental.
Learnerswill be deprived of knowledge that in fact isessential to solving writing problems.
Moreserious is the ensuing lack of interest in theimprovement of grammar instruction methods.Taught by age-old methods, many learners onlyhave an inkling of the meaning of importantgrammatical concepts.
Grammar rulesreferencing these terms are hard to applysuccessfully in written composition.The response by most linguists andinstructional scientists to this state of affairs hasbeen misguided.
Instead of initiating researchinto improved grammar teaching methods, theyhave tended to play down the importance ofgrammar rules and linguistic awareness inlearning how to write.1005Modern NLP techniques for the analysis andgeneration of written language, in combinationwith graphical tools for visualizing andmanipulating the structure of words, sentencesand texts, afford excellent possibilities forcreating integrated curricula for grammar andwriting instruction.
Language ngineers, take upthe challenge, seize the opportunity!1006
