Parsing decomposable idiomsIngr id F ischer  and Mar t ina  Ke i lIMMDI I ,  Un ivers i ty  of E r langenMar tenss t r .
391058 Er langen,  Germany{ id f i sche ,  keil}@informat ik.
uni-erlangen, deAbst rac tVerbal idioms can be divided into twomain groups: non-compositional id-ioms as kick the bucket and composi-t ional/decomposable idioms as spill thebeans.
In the following we will pointto the fact that there are German de-composable idioms which can be decom-posed into components, having identifi-able meanings contributing to the mean-ing of the whole.
These idiom compo-imnts are taken to have referents.
Takingthese facts into account we propose anadequate way to represent the idiomaticmeaning by Kamp's Discourse Represen-tation Theory (DRT).
Furthermore, weshow how to parse idiomatic sentencesand how to process the proposed seinan-tic representation.
While parsing id-ioms, the necessary idiomatic knowledgeof the idioms' syntax and semantics i ex-tracted from a special idiomatic knowl-edge base called PIIRASEO-LI.\]X.1 In t roduct ionToday it becomes more and more evident that atoo restricted view on idiomatic phenomena is oflimited use for the purpose of natural languageprocessing.
Therefore, it is now widely acceptedthat we have to distinguish at least two groupsof figurative verbal phrasal idioms: first, thereis a group of syntactically frozen idioms as kickthe bucket, meaning "die", which are called non-compositional.
Second, there is a group whichshows more syntactic and semantic flexibility.
Anexample for the ,latter group, often called compo-sitional or decomposable I idioms, is spill the beans1 By classfying idioms with the terms compositionalrespectively decomposable the same property is de-cribed by two different point of views.
The first notionis a more structural term, the second notion a moreprocess oriented term.
See (Geeraerts, 1992).nleaning "divulge infbrnmtion".
With this groupwe are dealing here in depth.
In this paper wepropose an adequate semantic representation foridiomatic knowledge and show a way of processingsyntax and semantics of decomposable idioms.In the following we will first; deal with the ideaof decomposability of idioms in section 2.
In sec-tion 3 we will present our proposal of an ade-quate representation of the idioms' meaning bymeans of DRT.
Before we will outline a way ofprocessing decomposable idioms in section 5, wewill briefly introduce the necessary tools for theparsing process in a few brief words in section 4.Finally, in section 6 we show some possible exten-sions.2 Decomposab le  id ioms and  there ferent ia l  s ta tus  o f  the i r  i d iomchunkshi contrast o non-compositional idioms, decom-posable idioms arc; able to undergo several syntac-tic operations that lead to the opinion that "piecesof an idiom typically have identifiable meaningswhich combine to produce the meaning of thewhole" (Wasow, 1982).As example, we consider the syntactic behaviorof the German verbal idioms cinch Bock schieflcn(lit.
: "shoot; a buck", fig.
: "make a mistake",fig.
eq.
: "make a bloomer") 2 and jmdm.
einenB&'cn aufbindcn (lit.
: "tie sb.
a bear on", fig.
:"tell a tall tale to sb.
", fig.
eq.
: "pull sb.
's leg";"spin sb.
a yarn")In the following examples ew:ral modifications2Since a high degree of language competence isnecessary when judging about grammaticality of id-iom const ruct ions ,  we  ?
as German native speakerschoose German idioms as examples.
We establishthe following convention for translation: literal: lit-eral English word-by word translation of the Germanidiom; figurative: English paraphrase of the figurativemeaning; fig.
equivalent: English idioms with an equiv-alent meaning.388(1) Tom hat mtf der Sitzung cinch groflen \]dock geschossen.Tom has on the meeting a big |)uek shot.einige 135eke gcschossen.several bucks shotTom made ;t big mistake on the meeting.
(2) ~lbln hat in seineI,l Leben sehonTom has in his liti~ alreadyTom already made several mistakes in his life.
(3) :l)ic.ser~ Pcml~ hat Toni 9cschosscn.This bu(:k has '\['om shot.q.bnl made.
this misl;~ke.
(4) ' lTom binder; Kin\] cinch 'l*'ngla'ablich, enTom t;ies Kin\] ;t mdmlievabh~''Pom |;ells Kim an mfl)eliev;tble tall tale.
(5) Was fiir cinch IKiren h, at Tom Kim a'ufqcb,lmden?What for a t)em' has 'Ibm Kim ~ied..otf?Wh~t~ kind of l;a.ll tah; did Tom tell to Kim?lffiren a'@bear on.can be found: adjectival modifications in (1, 4),(lu;mtifieation in (2), and focussing \])y (lemonstr;>tive determiner (3) and by question in (5) apply C()the idioms internal NPs .
It is ilnl)orta.tfl; to notice.that these oi)erations mid mo(lili(:;ttions in (I) (5)are not result of tmns or word l)lays but gratnmat-ieally a.nd stylistically unmarked ('onstructions.Similm" examples (:an be ~bttnd in other lan-guages, too.
The first German exmnple has aDutch equivalent: een bok ~schicten, where inter-na\] inodifications mul quantific;~tion are 1)ossible.A french decomposable i(liom is lever u'n li&n'e(lit.
: "raise a hm:e", fig.
: "touch a (lelieate sub-jeet"); p','cndcre una cantonata (lit.
:"take a cor-Iler') incmling "to make a mistake" is &it italianone.
Therefore, internal modifiability of idiolnsseems not to be restri(:ted on the ( ;enmm lan--guage.2.1 Decomposabh,.
idioms are structuredent i t iesIt ix evident f, hat a component like bucket of anon COml)ositional idioln as kick the bucket (:an-not undergo such kind of synta(:ti(: operations.Therefbre, the ineanillg of non eompositional \]d-loins is seen :4.8 aAl tlnstrllctllred ('.om\]\[)lex.
(,~otnt)o-nents like bucket which do not carry a.ny individualmea.ning are called quasi-argument.s with a nonreferential function (Chomsky, 1981).
In oppositeto this, components of decolnI)osa.ble idioms d()carry some individual meaning!
"Of" (:ourse, thesememfings ;~re not the literal memfings of the parts"is stated in (Wasow, 1982).
q?hen, the questionsarise, which kind of inemfing do these pm:ts carry?Which is the hidden semantic stuff of Beck or 13&"rest)e(:tively, that is modified, inquired, quantified,and emphasized?We adopt the i)oint of view that itenis as l\]ockor /\]a~' C3dlllOt be (:onsidered as quasi argmnentsbut as Jigurativc.
awumcnts,  lhlrthermore, we fol-low th(~ el)in\]on that such idiomatic strings m'e1lOt llllSLrll(;tlll'e(\[ (:()lIlplexe~,q: bill strll(:tltre(1 en-I;ities.
Their sla'ueturing takes t)la(:e in t)ar;fi-M to the structuring of the literally interpwtedsLring (l}urger, 1973).
()ur intuition suggests toparaI)hrase cinch I3ock schicflen t)y "e, inen ~%hlermachen" (lit.
: "make ;t misl;ake") a.nd jmdm.
einen13&'en aufbinden by "jlll(hn.
eille Liigenges(:hieltteerzithlen", (lit.
: "tell a tall tale to sb.
"), lilt ix evi-dent for tim t)m:al)hrase and the idiom to hnve atleast the same syntactic stru(;ture as showl l  ill thenext table.\[ -(.
'\]imn \] \[ 1~()(:1~ s(:t~iet3(;i,a __H t,.,,:a: .~hooteinen ~ Fehler m~tehena ~L  .
.
.
.
.
mistake, makei ?,'b.
~>_ _l b~.a,.
,,i,,,-o~jmdm.
I eine | I,iigengeschichte~ erziihhmo , s~z  ___\[ tall tale tellIn addition it; is importmlt that also the seman-I;i(-s of the paraphrase and the idiom can be struc-I;ured in paralM.2.2 Figurat iw, .
re fe rents  o f  id iom chunksTo explain this, lel; us now consider the prob-lem Dora I;he referential point of view.
We claimthat individu~fl components of decolnposable ill-iotas can lm (:onsidered figurative arguments andthat these figurative t~rgmnents lmve referents ontheir own.Following (Nunberg, \].978) who first discussedthe referential aspect of idioms let "us considerthat verb phn~ses 'refer' to states and ~mtivi-\[;ies, and transitive verb phrases normally referto states and activities thn,t are best identified as%pen relations' of tile form ll, xb where tt~' stands\['or \],he relation referred to 1)y the ve.rb, 'x' is a.variable for the referent of the sentence subje(:t,and 'b' stands for the referent of the object NP.
"389(6)xyzKim(x)Tom(y)bear(z)incredible(z)tic-on(x,y,z)xyKim(x)(7) To, (y)incredible(?)lic-to(z,y)xyvwuKim&)Tom(v)incredible(?
)(8) lic-to(x,y)V~--Xw-- - -ytall-talc(u)bclicvc(w,v,u)u- - - - ?
(9)zyzKim(x)Tom#)incT~dible (z)tall-tale(z)tcll-to(x,y,z)(10)xyzuvwKim (x)incredible (z)tall-talc(z)tcll(x,y,z)v~2g~t =Zbdicve(w,v,u)On this basis, an idiom is called decomposable b -cause the situation to which it refers can be seenas an open relation Rxb.For the idiom eincn Book schicflen this meansthat schicflcn is a two-argument relation with avariable tbr the subject NP, the noun phrase cincnBock referring to the concept a mistake and theverb schicflen denoting a situation where someoneis acting.
Extending this idea to the decomposableidiom jmdm.
cinch Biiren aufbinden, it is neces-sary to suppose a three-argument--relation Rxybwith two open variables: x represents the sub-ject NP and y the indirect object NP.
The idiomjmdm.
einen B&'en anfbinden is now decompos-able into the noun phrase cinen Biiren, referringto a tall tale, and the verb aufbinden, referring tothe activity of telling.By paraphrasing decomposable idioms, theidentifiable parts of nmaning are taken into ac-count.
That  means that the concept of the un-derlying referent, which often may be an abstractentity lacking a physical extension, should be ver-balized and included into the paraphrase.Notice that in the above cases the relation be-tween the idiom components Bock, Biir and itsparaphrased referents Fchler, Liigcngcschichte isnot a metaphorical one, but a conventional one.There are also decomposable idioms where decom-posability is based on metaphoriocal knowledge.Besides our introspective intuition, evidence forthe proposed paraphrases i found through textanalyses.
The strongest support comes from theeveryday usage of language being observed for ex-ample in textcorpora with newspapers, literatureetc.
(Keil, 1.995).3 Semant ic  representat ion  o fdecomposab le  id ioms v ia  DRTIn the following, we will point out the problematicnature of meaning representation f idiomatic lml-guage with the help of DIRT (Kamp, 1993).
Wewill show the advantages of our theoretical con-siderations above, that can be best illustrated byDRT already including mechanisms to handle ref-erents.Consider example (4) Kim bindet Tom einenunglaublichen Biiren an/(fig.
:"Kim tells Tom anincredible tall tale").
DRS (6) shows the resultof processing the in this case senseless - -  lit-eral reading of sentence (4) without any idiomhandling procedures, a DRS (7) represents a noncompositional solution: after analysing the struc-ture syntactically, the literal meaning of the multi:word lexeme jmdm.
einen Biiren aufbindcn is sub-stituted by the "complex meaning" of the simpleverb phrase as "jmdn.
belfigen" ("lie to sb.
").Note that it is now a problem to represent heinternal adjectival modifier incredible correctly.There is no discourse referent for that the con-dition incrcdible as semantic representation f theadjective unglaublich olds.
Furthermore, if wewant to represent the sentence Er glaubte ihr dieLiigcngeschichtc ("He believes her the tall tale")continuing example (4) - - ,  the connection ofthe discourse referents cannot be made correctlyas shown in DRS (8).
The connection of the re-sumed constituent cincn unglaublichcn Biiren andthe resuxning definite description dic unglaublicheLiigcngeschichtc, which definitively exists, cannotbe mapped into the DRS.We claim that a more appropriate semantic rep-resentation of this idiom should respect its kindof composition and take its referents into con-sideration.
On the base of the discussed para-phrase "eine Liigengeschichte erz~ihlen", we of-fer the solution shown in (9).
This representa-tion now includes the condition incredible(z), tall-talc(z), tell(z,y,z) to represent the idiom, in (10)the continuation of our sentence is shown.
Refer-ence identity between bear' and tall-tale is estab-lished by the equation u=z.What decomposable idioms concerns, now theaFor the reason of simplification, we chooseEnglish predicate names for the conditions in theDRSs, e.g.
instead of logical clmlses a~s b&'(x), auf-bindcn(x,y,z), or bdiiqen('x,y) we present he sentencemeaning with bear(x), tie-on(x,y,z), or lic-to(x,y).This way the expenditure of translation c~m be re-duced in this paper.390base for adequate anapllora resohltion and reso-lution of definite deseriplions resuming em'lier in-troduced iscourse material is created.4 Used Tools: The Basic Parserand the LexiconIn |;lie following we introduce the tools we haveused R)r parsing idiomatic sentences.
We give ashort description of the underlying chart parsingsystem (Fischer, 1995) and our idiomatic lexicaldatabase, called PIIRASEO-LEX, that we use inthe sense of an additional idiom list proposed by(Wcinreich, 1969).
'\['he, design of our l)arsing system was governedI)y two main goals: paralh'lism and incrcmcntality.Nevertheless different formalisms m'c used to rap-resent syntactic and semantic features, having theadwmtage that for syntax as well as for semanticsthc most appropriate tbrmalism can be chosen.
4Conseqnently, to guarantee parallelism, this alsorequires a connection lechanisnl t)etween theseformalisms is necessary.
In the following sectionstim structure of I, hc parser will t)e describe(l alongthese lines.The grammar  fo rmal i sm of our systenl isan extension of the well known I)ATR-H. Synta(:-tic inibrmation is encoded in feature structures.With the help of constraint equations these fea-ture structures can be modified.
The underlyingunification mechanism is enriched with sequencesas well as simple wflue disjunctions.For our application the se, mant ic  fo rmal i sm isof more interest.
We de, cided to adopt l)inkal's at)-l)roach (13os, 1996) of I)I//F.
In contrast O Karat)l)llSs are not constructed in a to t) down fashionfrom a phrase structure tree, but bottom-up ltS-ing a version of A calculus.
When coml)ining ~-cah:ulus and I)RT, two different kinds of abstrac-tion are possible.
First one can abstract over acomplete DRS (partial DRS) or one can abstractonly over a single discourse, referent (predicativeDRS).
The h)llowing example shows both kind ofabstraction with the A 1)RS for the indetinite tie-term|net and the noun mistake, aFeature structures are, use(t to encode the A-I)li,Ss.The main operation on A DRSs is the, fltnctional4This is the so called co-descriptive apprvach.
Us-ing the stone fl)rmalism for syntacl;ic and scman~i(:construction is called the integrated approach, in tit(',descriptive approach they are build up sequentially.-b indicates the union of DRSs.compost|on on a partial DR S as flmctor and apredicative DRS as argument.
It is implementedwith the helt) of unification on the feature struc-tures.Our parsing engine is an act ive chart  parser.
'1)he chart edges arc marked, as usual, with cat-e, gory symhols.
Additionally, syntactic %aturestructures and )v I)RSs are attached to every edge,.1,br the extension of active edges according to theflmdamental rule of active chart parsing, all syn-ta('tic and semantic onstraints of the resi)ectivegranunar ule must be satisfied.A grammar  rule consists of three parts:Context free rule, s over category symbols (',onsti-tutc the l)aekt)onc of every grammar.
They are an-notate, d with equations, the solutions of which re-sult in syntactic feature stractures.
Iil the, so equa-tions the category symbols are used as projectionsto mark the structures to be used.
The categorysymbols are also used in the, senmntic operationson DllSs.
For semanl;ics, besides an operator com-pose for functional composition, an operator id foridentity is used.An interface module he, lps to connect (lifl~realtlexicons to the, t)arse, r. At the inoment, a synt;ac-tic lexicon containing t'e, atllrC strllCtllres, a senlan-l;ic lexicon with A- I)RSs and a special exicon foridioms, calle, d PIIRASI~:o-LEx (Keil, 1994), (Kcil,1995) are commcted to the parser.Phraseo-Lex  is a computational lexicon whichwas specially develot)ed for idiomatic knowledge.Of all dive, rsed syntactic, semantic, and pragmaticiifformal,ion provided by 1)IIRASI.
;O-LEX, we onlyne, c(l for our i)url)ose h'mmata, base lexemes, (id-iom t)artMt)ating lcxi(:al words: Bock, ,schicfl(,n),tim inte~rnal syntacti(: structure ncoded as a syn-tactic tre, e, the internal sclnantic structure ell-coded as predicate argument structure and thelogical tbrm.As example, we show the lexical entries of ourfirst examplary decomt)osablc idiom.len,nta: einen Bock schieBenbase lexelnes: Boek, schie\]3eninternal syntactic structure:(vpll(np-acc (det einen)(n Bock))(v schieBen))internal semantic structure:Idiom Paraphrasesubje, ct subjectx > X-dlre~ct object direct objecteinen Bock -7 a mistakepredicate 1)red|careschieJ3en ~ makelogical form: make (x,y), mistake (y)391During the parsing process this necessary id-iomatic information is extracted from PHRASEO-Ll,~x and mapped into feature structures theparser can handle.5 Process ing  decomposab le  id iomsWhen parsing decomposable idioms with theparser described in the previous section, the fol-lowing steps are taken:While in i t ia l iz ing the  ehart ,  it is importantto control whether potential parts of an idiom arefound or not.
For ('.very word of a sentecne tobe parsed it is checked if it is a base lexeme of anidiom.
If this test was positive, an additional chartedge is inserted for every idiom the word can occurin.
This edge is marked as usual, but with tilesyntactic feature structure and the A DRS builtfrom the idiomatic information of PtIRASEO-LI,',X.The feature  s t ruc ture  of this idiom edge con-tains information al)out how the idiom has to becompleted and its underlying syntactic structure.This information is extracted from tile PHRASEOLEX syntax tree.
The following examples howthe feature structures of schicflcn and Bock of ore"running example.case: nominative-agrm: |number:singularkperson: twostem: sehieBen_vpll3\[head \[stem: b?ck-vple31 1\[rest: nilFcase: nominative-\]number:singularagrm.
\]person: twogender: maststem: boek_vpl l3vpl: \[verb:schieflen_vpll3\]The features val (for valency) respectively vpl(for verbal phraseologism) contain the informationnecessary to find other relevant parts for build-ing the idiom.
While in the case of verbs thefeature val just contains more information thanusual, namely the stems of the missing parts of theidiom, the feature vpl is used to mark idiomaticinformation in other syntactic feature structures.Every part of the idiom is marked with an extraending, in our example _vpll& This is due to thefact that the same words can occur in different id-ioms and should not be mixed up during parsing,because of the corresponding semantic structures.For example, the words Katzc and Sack occur aswell in die Katzc aus dcm, Sack lassen (fig.
eq.
"letthe cat out of the bag") as in die Katze im Sackkm@n (fig.
eq.
"buy a pig in the poke").The A -DRS of the idiomatic edge already con-tains the literal referent of the part of the idiomthey represent.
This means the senmndc entry forschicficn as part of cinch Bock schicflen alreadycontains the predicate make(z,y).
?xAy \[ make(x,y) \] ?x mistake(x)For the same reasons the A DRS for bock con-tains the predicate mistake(x).
This informationis take.n from the internal semantic structure ofthe idiom encoded in PIIRASEo-LEx aS shownabove and translated into the A-DRS.It is important o notice that the informationconcerning decomposable idioms is distribute.damong all its base lexemes.
Nevertheless, we onlyhave one entry for every idiom in our idiomaticdatabase.
Only when initializing the chart, thisinformation is spread over several edges.In the grammar, special rules must he writtento handle the idiomatic edges.
In these rules itmust be checked whether a complete idiom can beconstructed.
This is done with the help of extraequations over the special features val and vpl ofthe idiomatic featm'e structures.
The followingexample shows a rule connecting an object andthe verb phrase of a sentence, checking if both theverb and the noun are 1)arts of the same idiom.
(~(VP --~ V NP((V val hcad) =- (NP agrm)(V val head stem) = (NP stem)(NP vpl verb) - (VP stem)(VP val) = (NP val rest)(VP obj head) = NP(VP stem) = (V stem))(compose NP V))No changes were necessary neither to the chartparser itself nor to the fundamental rule.
All fea-tures concerning idioms are handled in the lexi-cons or the grammar.The resul t  o f  the pars ing  process  are tworeadings of the sentence: the literal one, and theidiomatic one.
The syntactic feature structures ofthe literal and the idiomatic reading are the same,as there is no pure syntactic difference between tiletwo readings.
Only the semantic structures differ:one DRS represents the literal idiomatic and onethe idiomatic reading.6Feature structures and rules are reduced to a min-imum in our examples to keep the structures cleat'.392This technique allows us to pm'se sentences like(1) (5) where, one part of the idiom is modifiedail(1 ilot the idiom as whole.
A discom'se referentfor biir or hock respectively tall tale or mi,stakcis already introduced dm'ing the initialization ofthe chart.
This referent can serve as an anchorfor an I)ossible adjectival modifier as unglanblich.With the help of the rule connecting a(ljeetivesand nouns (not especially written for idioms!
),the predicates incredible(z) and tall-tale(z) are in-serted in the DRS.
This approach also works foranaphoras.
The discourse referent introduce.d forB"ar  is the.
antecedent for the anapher in l;he.
nextsentence\]6 Extens ionsIt is quite simt)le to add the t)rocessing of non-compositional idioms to our parser.
In this (:as(;,the whole literal meaning is bound to the mainpart of the idiom, in inost eases the verb.
The se-mantic of all the other parts is considered empty,l;he empty k I)RS is bound l;o the eorresi)ondingedges.
Whe, n parsing a sentence where a part ofa non-composit ional idiom is modified, the corre-sponding rules fail, t)e(:ause no discourse referentcan be found this modification mw be bound to.The only result will be ttm literal meaning of the~;e l l tenee .Our sysl;em starts processing a potential idiomas soon as one base lexeme was foutl(1.
An im-proved version of our approach will lmndle anidiom after some inore base lexeines appeared.This will reduce the munber of lexical lookups toPItRASI,;O LEX as well as the number of edges inthe t)arser.ReferencesBos, .h)han; GambS~ck, Bj6rn; l,ieske, Christian; Mori,Yoshiki; Pinkal, Maiffred and Worm, Karsten.
1996Compositional Semantics in Verbmobil, in this vol-l I Ine.Burger, ltarald.
1973 \[diomatik des Dcutschcn.Tiibingen.Chomsky, Noaln.
1981 Lectures on Government andBinding: The Pisa lectures.
Dordrecht/NL.Fischer, Ingrid; Geistert, Bernd and GSrz, Giinther.1995.
Chart t)~tsed Incremental Semantics Con-stru(:timl, with Anaphora Resolution Using A-DRT.rSimilar results can be found in (Stock, 1989)where Italfiut idioms are the base.
Hers the mappingof parts of the idiom to parts of the ImraI)hrase isdone with the help of special referent substitutionsbetween the literal and paraphrased meaning.
Unfor-f, unately, it; is not described in detail how their nmeh-anism would work for anaphor~us or modifications ofparts of the idiom.In Proceedings of the fourth International Workshopon Parsing Technologies, Prag and Karlsbad: 8788.Geeraerts, Dirk.
1992 Specialisation and Reinterpre-tation in idioms.
In M. Everaert, E.-J.
van der Lin-den, A. Schenk, 11.. Schreuder (eds), Proceedingsof IDIOMS.
International Conference on Idioms,Tillmrg/NL: 39 52.Kamp, Ilans and Reyle, Uwe.
1.993 From Discour,sc toLogic.
Kluwer Academic Press.Keil, Martina.
1994 Systematische Repr:,isentationverl)ah,.r Phraseologislnen mid deren Eigenschaftellim Lexikon.
In Trost, Harald.
(ed.)
Proceedings ofKONVENS'9Jt, Springer, Wien/Austria: 181 t90.Keil, Martina.
1995 Modell zur Repriisentation vet-baler PhTnseologismen (Phrasco-Lcx).
PhD thesis,University of Erlangen-Nuremberg.Nunberg, Geoffrey D. 1978 The Pragmatics of Refl'.r-ertcc.
PhD thesis.
Reproduced hy the Indiana Uni-versity Linguistics Club, Bloomington.Nunberg, Geoffrey D., Iwm A.
Sag, Thomas Wasow.1994 Idioms.
'I%chnicat report, University of Stan-fbrd.I)ulman, Stephen G. 1993.
The Recognition, Interpre-tation of Idioms ht M. Everaert M, E.-il.
Van derLinden (eds.)
Proccedin.qs of the fir'st Tilburg Work-shop on Idioms, Tilburg/NL: 249 270.Stock, 0.
1989 Parsing with flexiblity, dynamic strate-gies, idioms in mind.
In Cornp'lttational linguistics,:15, 1:1 18.Wasow, Thomas, ivan A.
Sag, and Geoifrey Nunl:mrg.1982 hlioms.
An Interim Report.
In S. Ilattori,I.
Kazuko, (eds.)
Proceedings of the XIIIth inter-national congress of linguists, Tokio: 102-115.Weinreich, Uriel.
1969 Problems in analysis of Idioms.In a. I'uhvel (ed.)
Substance and Structure of lan-guage, Berkeley, University of California Press: 23-81.393
