A Sign Expansion Approach to Dynamic,  Mul t i -PurposeLexiconsJon Atle GullaGMD - IPSIDolivostratle 15D-64293 Darmstadt, Germanygulla0gmd, de.Sjur NCrsteb?
MoshagenComputing Centre for the HumanitiesHarald H?rfagres gt.
31,N-5007 Bergen, Norways ju t .
mo shagen0hd, uib.
noAbstractTwo problematic issues in most lexi-con systems today are their size and re-stricted domain of use.
In this paper, weintroduce a new approach to lexical or-ganization that leads to more compactand flexible lexicons.
The lexical en-tries are conceptual/phonological fr mesrather than word entries, and a num-ber of expansion rules are used to gen-erate entries of actual words from theseframes.
A single frame supports not onlyall forms of a word, but also words of dif-ferent categories that are derived fromthe same semantic basis.
The wholetheory is now being implemented in theTROLL lexicon project.1 IntroductionDue to the complexity and wide coverage of lex-ical information, full-fledged lexicon systems eas-ily grow undesirably big and must cope with in-tricate ~ nets of dependencies among lexical items.For keeping the speed of access at a satisfactorylevel, lexical information is often repeated in dif-ferent entries to reduce the number of consulta-tions needed for a single user query.
This sim-plifies and speeds up the access of lexical infor-mation, but also blows up the size of the lexi-con and leads to huge maintenance problems.
Inmany cases, it also clutters the lexicon structure,so that important lexical relationships and gener-alizations are lost.Structuring the lexicon in inheritance hierar-chies opens for more compact lexicon represen-tations.
So far, lexicons have been structured insyntactic inheritance hierarchies, in which moreor less abstract syntactic lasses form the uppernodes and actual words are associated with theleaf nodes (Flickinger and Nerbonne, 1992; Rus-sell et al, 1992).
However, the nature and num-ber of these abstract syntactic lasses are not veryclear, and it seems difficult to come up with asound method for how to decide on such classes.At the same time, there are also good reasonsfor assuming a similar hierarchy based on seman-tic properties (Hellan and Dimitrova-Vulchanova,1994).
Representing many competing hierarchiesin the lexicon is a problem in itself and is hereeven more problematic as there are many com-plex relationships between semantic and syntac-tic properties (Gropen et al, 1992; Hellan andDimitrova-Vulchanova, 1996).Another problem is related to the notions andstructures adopted in the lexicon systems.
Mostlexicons today are constructed within the frame-work of some syntactic theory.
This theory guidesthe structuring of lexical information and also de-cides what information should be available to theuser (Andry et al, 1992; Flickinger and Nerbonne,1992; Mel'Suk and Polgu~re, 1987; Russell et ~l.,1992; Krieger and Nerbonne, 1991).
Some lexiconsystems try to be reasonably theory-independent,though they still have to adopt some basic syn-tactic notions that locate them into a family oftheories (Gofii and GonzAlez, 1995; Grimshaw andJackendoff, 1985; Grishman et al, 1994).The Sign Expansion Approach forms a basis forcreating non-redundant lexicon systems that arestructured along semantic lines.
The stored lexicalentries are sign frames rather than actual words,and a whole system of expansion rules and consis-tency rules are used to generate dynamic entriesof words that contain all the necessary semantic,syntactic, and morphological information.In Section 2, we give a brief introduction to asign expansion theory called the Sign Model.
Sec-tion 3 explains the use of lexical expansion rules,whereas ome concluding remarks and directionsfor further work are found in Section 4.478/paintNpaint(($ SUB.I))paint((~ SUBJ)(\]" OBJ)} -~ paint((t SUBJ)(J" OBJ)(J" XCOMP)>paint((~ SuB J)(\]" OBL)}Figure 1: The stored frame PAINT is expanded into actual words with syntactic properties.2 The Sign ModelIn the sign expansion approach, the lexicon isviewed as a dynamic rule system with lexicalframes and various kinds of expansion rules.The Sign Model (SM) by Hcllan and Dimitrova-Vulchanova (Hellan and Dimitrova-Vnlchanova,1994) is a semantically based sign expansion the-ory and is used as the lexical basis of our lexicon.It posits an abstract level of sign representationthat is not associated with any word classes andestablishes a framework, within which word rela-tionships as well as relationships between differentkinds of linguistic properties can be described ina systematic way.
At the abstract level of rep-resentation, one defines conceptual/phonologicalfi'ames that underly the actual words found in alanguage.
The fi'ames combine with lexical ex-pansion rules to create dynamic entries of actualwords with morphological and syntactic proper-ties, as illustrated by the LFG representations inFigure 1.
No particular syntactic terminology isassumed, since the theory is intended to fit intoany syntactic theory.2.1 M in imal  S ignsThe conceptual/phonological frame, which is re-ferred to as a minimal sign, is made up of a se-mantic (conceptual) part and a realizational part.As we do not have very much to say about phono-logical representations here, we assmne in thefollowing that tim realizational part is a simplegraphemic representation.
The semantic part is aconceptual structure of the sign, which is to cap-ture all grammar-relevant aspects of its meaning.The meaning of a sign is analyzed as a situationinvolving a number of participants (also called ar-guments), and these participants as well as the sit-uation as a whole are modeled in terms of aspec-tual values, semantic roles, criterial factors, andrealizational and selectional properties.Consider the minimal sign PAINT in Figure 2,which is the lexical entry underlying the re-lated words paintv , paintN ,paintingN , paintableA,etc.
The realizational part is the string "t)aint",whereas the semantic part denotes a situationwith two arguments, indexed as 1 and 2.
TheRea l  :Sem :"paint"- JunctualSOURCECONTROLLERDIMLIMITGOALMONOTONICcoloringnoncriterial2-dimcoloringnoncriterialcoloringFigure 2: Stored entry for minimal sign PAINT.aspectual value ( -punctuaO describes the situa-tion as durative, whereas the selectional restric-tion DIM states that argument 2 is to serve assome two-dimensional surface.
Argument 1, thepainter, possesses the semantic roles SOURCE andCONTROLLER.
SOURCE means that this argumentis the source of energy for the force involved ina painting process, whereas CONTROLLER indi-cates that the argument is in control of the pro-cess.
Correspondingly, argument 2 is the entityon which the force is used (LIMIT) and the entitybeing controlled by argument 1 (GOAL).
Argu-ment 2 is also given the MONOTONIC role, whichmeans that it undergoes ome monotonic hangein the course of painting.
The change, of course,is that the surface is gradually covered by somepaint.
Each semantic role is further characterizedby means of a criterial factor that imposes cer-tain role-related observational properties on theargument.
Specifying SOURCE and LIMIT as col-oring means that the painter's use of force in-volves some observable actions that identifies himas painting, and that the surface being paintedis recognizable from the same force.
The gradualcovering of the surface with paint, which is mod-eled by MONOTONIC, is also of the coloring type,since we can verify the covering by looking at thesurface.
CONTROLLER's and GOAL'S factor non-criterial means that no particular observable be-havior is required for an argument o play these479Rea l  :Sem :"walk"- punctualCONTROLLER noncriterialMONOTONIC 1-dim tFigure 3: Stored entry for minimal sign WALK.particular oles.
In general, the criterial factorsaffect, the implicitation of arguments in syntac-tic expressions (e.g.
argument 2 in ,Ion painted)and the introduction of new ones (e.g.
red in Jonpainted the house red).As shown by the lexical entry of WALK inFigure 3, naturally intransitive verbs are rootedin minimal signs with only one conceptual argu-ment.
The argument of WALK is a SOURCE anda CONTROLLER, and it undergoes a monotonic de-velopment with respect to some one-dimensionalpath.
In a sentence like Jon walked to the school,the phrase to the school describes this mono-tonic development of argument 1.
Away in gonwalked away is another optional constituent, hatcan describe argument l 's nmvement along a one-dimensional path.2.2  Lex ica l  Ru lesThe general format of the expansion rules is asfollows:(1) X IF Y COMPOSITION SX contains the information to be added and Ythe requirement for using the rule.
S concerns thestructure on which the rule is used and specifieswhich parts of this structure should be consideredby the rule.
Interpretationally, the rule in (1) canbe applied on a structure Z if Y is a substructureof Z and X unifies with the selection of Z specifiedin S. The result of the operation is exactly this uni-fied structure, and the operation itself is referredto as a derivation.
If the whole lexical entry is tobe addressed by the rule, the COMPOSITION part isomitted in the rule specification.
Similarly, if theIF Y part is not present, it means that there isno requirement for using the rule.
The expansionrules fall into five categories, depending on whatkind of information they insert into the lexicalrepresentations: (1) Morpho-syntactic augmenta-tions, (2) inflections, (3) conceptual expansions,(4) syntactic mappings, and (5) compositions.Morpho-syntactic augmentation rules add aword category and an inflectional paradigm to aminimal sign.
The morpho-syntactic augmenta-tion rule shown in Figure 4(a), for example, de-rives the basic entry for the verb paintv from tileminimal sign PAINT.Assuming that tile lexical entry has alreadybeen given a word class and a paradigm, the inflec-tional rule expands the graphemic representationinto a particular inflected word form.
The rulein Figure 4(b) expands the basic entry for paintvinto the more specialized entry for the past formpaintedv.
The inflectional rules m'e grouped to-gether into paradigms that are associated with theappropriate words (e.g.
vl is linked to paintv).Conceptual e,r, pansion rules are rules that ex-tend the semantic part of the signs without com-bining them with other sign structures.
Theserules are semantically conditioned and typicallyexplain how a particular sign can support a vari-ety of subcategorization frames.
The rule in Fig-ure 4(c) shows how a resultative construction likeJon painted the wall red is supported by a mini-mal sign like PAINT.
If the conceptual structurecontains an argument that undergoes ome mono-tonic development, he conceptual structure canbe expanded with a new argument hat servesas the medium for this development and has adimension matching the criterial property of theMONOTONIC role.
When an argument is a mediumfor some other argument, it means that its mono-toni(: development is manifested or materializedthrough this other argument.
Hence, as argument2 of PAINThas a MONOTONIC role, the rule is ableto add an argument hat describes the resul}ingmonotonic change of the surface being painted.The realization of this argument as an adjective(like red) comes from the fact that the new argu-ment, is of dimension coloring.
For a minimal signlike WALK (see Figure 3), which contains an argu-ment (the walker) that monotonically moves alongsome one-dimensional path, the rule adds a newargument of dimensionality 1-dim.
The mediummust then describe a one-dimensional path, as forexample to the school in Jon walked to the school.Syntactic mapping rules are rules that derivesyntactic properties from conceptual structures.Since no special syntactic notions are assumed,we must here decide on an existing syntactic the-ory before the mapping rules can be defined.
Therule shown in Figure 4(d) is based on Gulla's rules(Gulla, 1994) for mapping from SM conceptualstructures to LFG grammatical functions (Kaplanand Bresnan, 1982).
It states that if a verb is used480Cat :  VlIlft: \[ paradigm: vl \].
.
.
.
.
( a )lnfl: \[ form: past, \]R,eah insert "ed" at end.
.
.
.
.
(b )~elIlt: I)\]M (~MH)IUM - } i j1F.
.
.
.
.
.
.
( ,9  .
.
.
.Syn: \[ XCOMP.i \[\] \]WSere:4. completedI)\[MMEI)IUMcoloring()l{existence>j.
.
.
.
.
( ,0\ [ \ ]kIFI punctualSeIll-" \[ CONTROI,LFAI,COMPOSITION main Suttixwh, ere (t ?
no'ucriterial.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.Figure 4: (a) Morpho-syntactic augmel~tation.
(b)Inflectional rule.
(c) Conceptual expansion.
(d)Mapping rule.
(e) Compositiolml rule.in a completed seIIse 1, MEDIUM arguments of (ti-mensionality coloring or existence can be mappedonto the XCOMP flmction.
Used together with rule4(c) on PA\[N~I; it introduces an XCOMP elementthat des(:ribes the resulting state of the surfacebeing painted.
A similar al)proaeh to the assign-meat of synt;u:tic flmct, ions in LFG can be foundin (Alsina, 1993).The compositional rules combine two sign stru(>I;ures attd create a new compound structure thatincludes parts of l)oth of them.
The rule in Fig-ul'c 4(e) uses a suffix to create a noun \[;hat re\[ersto some controlled, durative activity.
Except tbrl;hc control and duration requirement, l;he conc:ep~tua.1 structure must also contain a criterially an-chored argument, i.e.
mt argument hat includesat least one semantic role that is not noneritc-rial.
The (\]OMI'OSITION part says that there aretwo structures involved, a main stru(:ture and as'u,J.l~x strucl,urc, whei'cas the cxpansioll i)art turnsl;he whole conceptual structure into an &rgulilentk.
()n the basis ot" the minimal signs PAINT andWALK, l;he rule (:an create I;he notms paintingNand 'walkingN .3 The Expand ing  Lex iconIn a sign extmnsion le, xi(:on system, we must dis~tinguish between stored lexical entries and gen-erated lexical entries.
The stored entries are allminimal signs, and I;hey are usually not very in-I;eresdng to the lexicon user.
The generated en-tries are produ(:ed by combining stored entrieswith one or more ext)ansion rules, and these cn-t;ri(;s at'(; more or less elaborate spe(:ifica~,ions ofactual wor(ls.
A simple generated entry is theresult of combining th(; minimal sign PAINT inFigure 2 with the morpho-syntactic auginen~ationrule in Figure 4(a).
This yMds dm basic verbentry paintv, which (loes not contain any infor-mation abou|, syntactic realization.
More elabo.-rat(; entries are then generated by expanding thepaiutv entry with the different subcategorizationframes that are possible for paintv.
For a user re-questing information fl'om the lexicon, l;he storedentries m W be completely hidden and only theelaborate generated ones may be made available.Consider the rather elaborate ntry in Figure 5,which rel)resents the past form painted used in thefollowing resultative constru(:tion:lt, bllowing the ideas of felicity in (Depraetere,1995), we define a clause to 1)e completed if it reachesa natural or intt;nded endpoint.
A non-repetitive r -sultative (:ons~ruction is always completed, whereasconstructions like ,Ion is painting and Jon paints ev-e.ry day are incompleted.481Cat :Infl :Real :Sem :Syn :Vparadigm: vlform: past"painted"- punctual+ completedSOURCE coloring \]CONTROLLER noncriterial 1DIM 2-dim 1L IMIT  coloringGOAL noncriterialMONOTONIC4 coloring 2DIM coloring \]MEDIUM --~ 4 3suRJl: \[\] \]o,J : \[ \]XCOMP : \[\]Figure 5: Generated entry for resultative use ofpaintedv .
(3) Jon painted the house red.The entry specifies a particular word form, con-tains a conceptual structure with three arguments,and lists the syntactic functions realizing these ar-guments.
Indexing SUBJ with 1 means that argu-ment 1 of the conceptual structure is to be real-ized as the subject.
The whole entry is generatedby a series of derivations, where each derivationadds a piece of information to the final lexical en-try.
Starting with the minimal sign PAINT, weuse the rules in Figure 4(a) and 4(b) to generatea simple entry for paintedy.
Then we expand theconceptual structure into a completed escription(+ completed) using a rule called Completed andapply the rule in Figure 4(c) to add a third argu-ment.
The syntactic functions are added by therule in Figure 4(d) plus two rules that we here cancall Subjl and Objl.
Subjl  assigns the SUBJ func-tion to arguments that contain SOURCE or CON-TROLLER roles, whereas Obj l  requires a + com-pleted description and assigns the OBJ fimction toarguments that have a MONOTONIC role.
The gen-eration of the lexical entry in Figure 5, thus, canbe written as the following derivational sequence:(4) PAINT ++ 4(a) ++ 4(b) +-t- Completed ++4(c) ++ Subjl ++ Objl ++ 4(d)When the system is to create a derivational se-Cat:Infl:Real:Sem:N\[ paradigm: nl  \]"paint(ing) "- ~unctualSOURCECONTROLLERDIML IMITGOALMONOTONICcoloringnoncriterial2-dimcoloringnoncriterialcoloring 2 3Figure 6: Lexical entry for suffix ingN and gener-ated entry for paintingN.quence like that, we first have to indicate whichmorpho-syntactic rule to use.
The system thenchooses the correct inflectional paradigm, and itcan start trying out the different expansion rulesto generate complete lexical entries.
The searchspace for this is restricted, since the rules are se-mantically conditioned and monotonic, and well-formedness conditions decide when to stop ex-panding the structure.In a similar vein, the noun paintingN (referringto a painting process) is derived from the minimalsign PAINT and the suffix ingN.
The composi-tional rule from Figure 4(e) combines these twostructures and produces the lexical entry shownin Figure 6.
Category and Infect ion stem fromingN, Realization is a combination of the valuesin PAINT and ingN, and Semantics is the min-imal sign's conceptual structure xpanded into acomplex argument indexed as 3.
Instead of stor=ing two entries for paintv and paintingN --  thatpartly contain the same information - -  we derivethe entries dynamically from a single PAINT en-try.4 Conc lus ionsThe Sign Model (SM) gives a theoretical founda-tion for structuring lexical information along se-mantic lines?
It prescribes a strong semantic basisand suggests various kinds of expansion rules forgenerating complete word entries.
The sign ex-pansion approach is now used as a basis for theTROLL lexicon project in Trondheim.
In thisproject, a formalism for lexical representation aswell as mechanisms for executmg lexical rules areimplemented in LPA Prolog (Gulla and Mosha-gen, 1995).
A lexicon of Norwegian verbs is un-der construction, and SM-based analyses of En-482glish, German, and Bulgarian have been used inthe design of the lexicon (Hellan and Dimitrova-Vulchanova, 1996; Pitz, 1994).
Due to speed con-cerns, the stored entries and the expansion rulesare in the TROLL lexicon supplemented with in-dexes that refer to well-defined erivational se-quences for complete word entries.
The work inthe TROLL project is now concentrated on theconstruction of a complete lexicon for Norwegian,and this work is also to serve as an evaluation ofboth the lexicon structures and the Sign Model.The theory is still at a development s age when itcomes to psychological nd perceptional matters,even though some suggestions have been made(Gulla, 1994).
The filture work also includes es-tablishing proper interfaces to various syntactictheories, so that the system can be integrated withexisting parsers and generators.ReferencesAlsina, A.
(1993).
Predicate Composition: A The-ory of Syntactic Function Alternations.
Ph.
D.thesis, Stanford University, San Fransisco.Andry, F., N. M. Fraser, S. McGlashan, S. Thorn-ton, and N. J. Youd (1992).
Making DATRWork for Speech: Lexicon Compilation in SUN-DIAL.
Computational Linguistics 18(3), 245-268.Coopmans, Everaert, and Grimshaw (Eds.)(1996).
Lexical Specification and Insertion.Lawrence Erlbaum Ass., Inc.Depraetere, I.
(1995).
(Un)boundedness and(A)telicity.
Linguistics and Philosophy 18, 1-19.Flickinger, D. and J. Nerbonne (1992).
Inheri-tance and Complementation: A Case Study ofE~y Adjectives and Related Nouns.
Computa-tional Linguistics 18 (3), 269-310.Gofii, J. M. and J. C. GonzAlez (1995).
A frame-work for lexical representation.
In AI95: 15thInternational Conference.
Language Engineer-ing 95, Montpellier, pp.
243-252.Crimshaw, J. and R. Jackendoff (1985).
Reportto the NSF on grant IST-81-20403.
Technicalreport, Waltham, Department of Linguistics,Brandeis University.Grishman, ll., C. Macleod, and A. Meyers(1994).
Comlex Syntax: Building a Computa-tional Lexicon.
In Proceedings of the Interna-tional Conference on Computational Linguistics(COLING-94), Kyoto.Gropen, J., S. Pinker, M. Hollander, and R. Gold-berg (1992).
Affectedness and Direct Objects:The role of lexical semantics in the acquisitionof verb argument structure.
In B. Levin andS.
Pinker (Eds.
), Lexical fJ Conceptual Seman-tics, Cognition Special Issues, Chapter 6, pp.153-196.
Elsevier Science Publishers.Gulla, J.
A.
(1994).
A Proposal for LinkingLFG F-structures to a Conceptual Semantics.Master's thesis, Department of Linguistics, TheUniversity of Trondheim, Trondheim.Gulla, J.
A. and S. N. Moshagen (1995, January).Representations and Derivations in the TROLLLcxicon.
In H. Ledrup, I. Moen, and H. G. Si-monsen (Eds.
), Proceedings of The XVth Scan-dinavian Conference of Linguistics, Oslo.Ilellan, L. and M. Dimitrova-Vulchanova (1994,July).
Preliminary Notes on a Framework for'Lexically Dependent Grammar'.
Lecture se-ries at International Summer Institute in Syn-tax, Central Institutue of English and ForeignLanguages, Hyderabad, India.Hellan, L. and M. Dimi.trova-Vulchanova (1996).Criteriality and Grammatical Realization.
libappear in (Coopmans et al, 1996).Kaplan, R. M. and J. Bresnan (1982).
Lexical-Functional Grammar: A Formal System forGrammatical Representation.
In J.
Brcsnan(Ed.
), The Mental Representation f Grammat-ical Relations, Chapter 4, pp.
173-281.
MITPress.Krieger, H. U. and J. Nerbonne (1991).
Feature-Based Inheritence Networks for ComputationalLexicons.
Technical Report DFKI-P~R-91-31,German Research Center for Artificial Intelli-gence (DFKI), Saarbrucken.Mel'~uk, I. and A. PolguSre (1987).
A FormalLexicon in Meaning-Text Theory (Or How toDo Lexica with Words.
Computational Linguis-tics 13(3-4), 261-275.Pitz, A.
(1994).
Nominal Signs in German.
Ph.D. thesis, Department of Linguistics, Universityof Trondheim, Trondheim.Russell, G., A. Ballim, J. Carroll, and S. Warwick-Armstrong (1992).
A Practical Approach toMultiple Default Inheritance for Unification-Based Lexicons.
Computational Linguis-tics 18(3), 311-337.483
