I s sues  in  Communicat ion  GameHASIDA K6itiElectrotechnical Laboratory1-1-4 Umezono, Tukuba, Ibaraki 305, Japan.hasida@etl.go.jpAbstractAs interaction between autonomousagents, communication can be analyzedin game-theoretic terms.
Meaning gameis proposed to formalize the core ofintended communication in which thesender sends a message and the re-ceiver attempts to infer its meaning in-tended by the sender.
Basic issues in-volved in the game of natural languagecommunication are discussed, such assalience, grammaticality, common sense,and common belief, together with somedemonstration of the feasibility of game~theoretic account of language.1 IntroductionCommunication is a game (interaction among au-tonomous agents) by definition.
So it can be ana-lyzed in game-theoretic terms} In this paper westudy a fundamental aspect of linguistic commu-nication from the point of view of game theory,and enumerate some basic issues involved in thecommunication games of natural language.Let I be the proposition that the sender S in-tends to communicate a semantic ontent c to thereceiver R. Then I entails that S intends thatR should both recognize c and believe I. Thisis the core of nonnatural meaning (Grice, 1957;Grice, 1969).
Grice's original notion of nonnatu-ral meaning further entails (S's intention of) R'sbelieving (when e is a proposition or a reference)or obeying (when it is an order or a request) c,but we disregard this aspect and concentrate onthis core.This restricted sense of nonnatural meaning im-plies that communication is inherently collabora-tive, because both S and R want that R shouldrecognize c and I.
S of course wants it, and sodoes R because it is beneficial in general to knowwhat S intends to make R believe or obey.
Smight be lying or trying to mislead R, but even in1See Osborne and R.ubinstein (1994), ~mong oth-ers, for general reference on game theory.such a case S is still intending to communicate acontent c by way of making R recognize this inten-tion.
Even if R doubts S's honesty, R will try toknow what c is, because knowing what e is wouldhelp R infer what the hidden intent of S may be,among others.
For instance, when S tells R thatit is raining, R will learn that S wants to make Rbelieve that it is raining.
R would do so even if Rknew that it is not raining.
Even if R were unsin-cere and misunderstood S's message on purpose, 2the nonnatural meaning is still properly conveyed,because otherwise the intended misunderstandingwould be impossible.The present study concerns this aspect of com-munication, the nonnatural meaning in the re-stricted sense, which is a core of intended commu-nication.
Lies, ironies, indirect speech acts, and soforth (Perrault, 1990; Perrault and Allen, 1980)all share this core.
Our understanding about itwill hence help us understand basic workings ofnatural communication systems.
As an example,centering theory (Grosz et al, 1995) could be at-tributed to game-theoretic accounts, as demon-strated l~ter in this paper.2 Communicat ion GamesCommunication has been discussed in the game-theory literature.
A signaling game consists ofsender S's sending a message (or a signal) to re-ceiver R and R's doing some action in responseto that message.
Here S knows something that Rdid not know before receiving the message.
Thisis formulated by assuming that S belongs to sometype, which S knows but R does not know at first.Let T be the set of the types, P be the proba-bility distribution over T. Let M be the set ofthe messages and A be the set of R's possibleactions.
Finally, let Ux be the utility functionfor player X.
Us(t,m,a) and UR(t,m,a) are realnumbers for t E T, m 6 M and a E A.
A signal-ing game with T = {h,t~}, M : {ml,m2} andA = {al, a2} is illustrated by a game tree as shown~If /~ is sincere and unintentionally misunder-stands, that is just a failure of sharing the same con-text with S.531in Figure 1.
Here the game proceeds downwards.tl t2ml m2 ml m2A A A A~1 a2 a l  a 2 a l  a2 a l  a2Figure 1: A signaling game.The top branch is the nature's initial choice of S'stype according to P, the middle layer is S's de-cision on which message to send, and finally thebottom layer is R's choice of her action.
When Rhas just received ml (i = 1, 2), she does not knowwhether the game has been played through tl ort2.Let as  and ~n be S's and R's strategies, 3 re-spectively.
That is, as(mlt ) is the conditionalprobability of S's sending message m providedthat she is of type t, and an(aim ) the conditionalprobability of R's doing action a provided thatshe has received m. The combination (~s, an)of strategies i an equilibrium 4 of a signaling gamewhen as  and a~ are the optimal responses to eachother; that is, when az  maximizes X 's  expectedutilityg(t) ~s(mlt) ~n(alm) Ux( t, m, a)given ay ,  for both X = SAY = R and X =RAY=S.In typical applications of signMing game, T, Mand A are not discrete sets as in the above ex-ample but connected subsets of real numbers, andS's preference for R's action is the same irrespec-tive of her type.
In this setting, S should send acostly message to get a large payoff.
For instance,in job market signaling (Spence, 1973), a worker Ssignals her competence (type) to a potential em-ployer R with the level of her education as themessage, and R decides the amount of salary tooffer to S. A competent worker will have higheducation and the employer will offer her a highsalary.
In mate selection (Zahavi, 1975), a deerS indicates its strength by the size of its antlers3Or mixed strategies, which are probability distri=butions over the simple strategies (actions).4Or complete Bayesian equilibrium, in a more pre-cise, technical term.to potential mates R. A strong deer will grow ex-tra large antlers to demonstrate its extra survivalcompetence with this handicap.Cheap-talk game is another sort of communi-cation game.
It is a special case of signalinggame where Us and UR do not depend on themessage; that is, composing/sending and receiv-ing/interpreting message are free of cost.
In acheap-talk game, S's preference for R's actionmust depend on her type for non-trivial commu-nication to obtain, because otherwise S's messagewould give no information to R about her type.3 Mean ing  GameNow we want to formulate the notion of mean-ing game to capture nonnatural meaning in therestricted sense discussed in Section 1.
Let C bethe set of semantic ontents and P the probabilitydistribution over the linguistic reference to the se-mantic contents.
That is, P(c) is the probabilitythat S intends to communicate semantic ontentc to R. As before, M is the set of the messages.A meaning game addresses a turn of communi-cation (cs,m,c~>, which stands for a course ofevents where S, intending to communicate a se-mantic content Ks, sends a message m to R and Rinterprets m as meaning CR.
CS = cn is a neces-sary condition for this turn of communication tobe successful.
It seems reasonable to assume thatthe success of communication is the only source ofpositive utility for any player.So a meaning ame might be a sort of signalinggame in which S's type stands for her intendingto communicate some semantic ontent, and R'saction is to infer some semantic content.
Thatis, both T and A could be simply regarded as C.Strategies ors and an are defined accordingly.In a simple formulation, the utility function Uxof player X would thus be a real-valued functionfrom C ?
M ?
C (the set of turns).
It would besensible to assume that Ux(cs,m,  eR) > 0 holdsonly if es = cn.
Ux reflects the grammar of thelanguage (which might be private to S or R to var-ious degrees).
The grammar evaluates the (corn=putational, among others) cost of using content-message pairs.
The more costly are (cs, m I and(m, cR), the smaller is Uz(cs, m, cn).
The notionof equilibria in a meaning game is naturally de-rived from that in a signaling game.If the players want something like commonbelief, 5 however, meaning games are not signalinggames.
This is because cs = cn is not a suffi-cient condition for the success of communicationin that case.
Ux should then depend on not justKS, m, and c~, but also the players' nested beliefs5People have common belief of proposition p whenthey all believe p, thcy all believe that they M1 believep, they all believe that they all believe that they allbelieve p, and so on, ad infinitum.532about each other.
We will come back to this issuein Section 4.Note also that the typical instances of meaninggame in natural language communication is notlike the typical applications of signaling ame suchas mentioned before, even if meaning games arespecial sort of signaling games.
That is, meaninggames in natural anguage would normally involvediscrete sets of semantic ontents and messages.Natural-language meaning ames are not cheap-talk games, either, because we must take into con-sideration the costs of content-message pairs.
Itis not just the success of communication but alsovarious other factors that account for the players'utility.
S and R hence do not just want to maxi-mize the probability of successful communication.To illustrate a meaning game and to demon-strate that meaning games are not cheap-talkgames, let us consider the following discourse.
(1) ul: Fred scolded Max.u2: He was angry with the man.The preferred interpretation of 'he' and 'the man'in u~ are Fred and Max, respectively, rather thanthe contrary.
This preference is accounted for bythe meaning game as shown in Figure 2.
In thisprobability: /)1 > P2Fred Max'he' ~the inall'utility: U~ > U2Figure 2: A meaning game about references ofNPs.game, Fred and Max are semantic ontents, and'he' and 'the man' are messages.
6 We have omit-ted the nature's election among the semantic on-tents.
Also, the nodes with the same label are col-lapsed to one.
S's choice goes downward and R'schoice upward, without their initially knowing theother's choice.
The complete bipartite connectionbetween the contents and the messages means thateither message can mean either content grammat-ically (without too much cost).-Pl and P2 are the prior probabilities of refer-ences to Fred and Max in u2, respectively.
SinceFred was referred to by the subject and Max bythe object in ul, Fred is considered more salientthan Max in u2.
This is captured by assumingP1 > P2.
U1 and /72 are the utility (negative6Perhaps there are other semantic ontents andmessages.cost) of using 'he' and 'the man,' respectively, rUtilities are basically assigned to content-messagepairs, but sometimes it is possible to consider costsof messages irrespective of their contents.
We as-sume U1 > U~.
to the effect that 'he' is less com-plex than 'the man' both phonologically and se-mantically; 'he' is not only shorter than 'the man'but also, more importantly, less meaningful in thesense that it lacks the connotation of being adultwhich 'the man' has.There are exactly two equilibria entailing 100%success of communication, as depicted in Figure 3with their expected utilities ~1 and ?2 apart fromthe utility of success of communication, s P, > P2Fred Maxqle' 'the man'Fred Max X'he' 'the man'& = P~u, + P2U2 ?2 = P1U2 + I?2U1Figure 3: Two equilibria of the meaning game inFigure 2,and/71 > U2 imply ~1 -~2 = (P1 -/)2)(U1 -U2)0.
So the equilibrium in the left-hand side ispreferable for both S and R, or Pareto superior.This explains the preference in (1).
It is straight-forward to generalize this result for cases withmore than two contents and messages: A moresalient content should be referred to by a lightermessage when the combinations between tile con-tents and the messages are complete.
A generalconjecture we might draw from this discussion isthe following.
(2) Natural-language meaning games are playedat their Pareto-optimal equilibria.An equilibrium is Pareto optimal iff no other equi-librium is Pareto superior to it.Note that we have derived an essence ofcentering theory (Joshi and Weinstein, 1981;Kamcyama, 1986; Walker et al, 1994; Grosz et al,1995).
Centering theory is to explain anaphorain natural language.
It considers list Cf(ui )  offorward-looking centers, which are the semanticentities realize~ in ui, where ul is the i-th utte>ance.
The forward-looking centers of utterance u7For the sake of simplicity, here we assume that Usand U~ arc equal.
See Section 4 for discussion.SCommon belief about the communicated contentis always obtained in both cases.
So the current dis-cussion does not depend on whether the success ofcommunication is defined by cs = cR or commonbelief.9A linguistic expression realizes a semantic ontentwhen the former directly rcfers to the latter or thesituation described by the former involves the latter.533are ranked in Cf(u) according to their saliences.In English, this ranking is determined by gram-matical functions of the expressions in the utter-ance, as below.subject > direct object > indirect object> other complements > adjunctsThe highest-ranked element of Cf(u) is calledthe preferred center of U and written Cp(u).Backward-looking center Cb(ui) of utterance uiis the highest-ranked element of Cf(ui-1) thatis realized in ui.
Cb(u) is the entity which thediscourse is most centrally concerned with at u.Centering theory stipulates the following rule.
(3) If an element of Cf(ui_J is realized by a pro-noun in ui, then so is Cb(u{).In (1), Cb(u2) : Fred because Cf(ul) : \[Fred,Max\], if either 'he' or 'the man' refers to Fred.Then rule (3) predicts that Fred cannot be realizedby 'the man' if Max is realized by 'he' - -  the sameprediction that we derived above.
Moreover, (3)itself is a special instance of our above observationthat a more salient content should be referred toby a lighter message, provided that the backward-looking center is particularly salient.
(3) is common in all the version of centeringtheory, but of course there are further details ofthe theory, which vary from one version to an-other.
To derive all of them (which are right) in aunified manner equires further extensive study.4 P lay ing  the  Same GameWe have so far assumed implicitly that S and Rhave common knowledge about (the rule of) thegame (that is, P, Us and UR).
This assump-tion will be justified as a practical approximationin typical applications of signaling games (andcheap-talk games).
For instance, there may wellbe a body of roughly correct, stable common-senseknowledge about the correlation between the com-petence of workers and the degree of effort theymake to have higher education, about how muchan employer will offer to an employee with a cer-tain competence, and so on.However, common knowledge on the gamemight be harder to obtain in natural-languagemeaning ames, because the game lacks such sta-bility of the typical signaling games as mentionedabove.
A natural-language meaning game is al-most equivalent to the context of discourse, whichchanges dynamically as the discourse unfolds.In general, to figure out her own best strategy,S (R) attempts to infer R's (S's) strategy by sim-ulating R's (S's) inference.
If S and R do not havecommon knowledge about the game, this inferencewill constitute an infinite tree.
1?
For instance,For instance, after an utterance of 'a house,' 'the door'realizes the house referred to by 'a house.
'1?This is not a game tree but a tree of beliefembedding.Figure 4 depicts S's inference when she wants tocommunicate cl, where the players have commonknowledge of C : {Cl, c2\] and M : {ml, m2} butnot of their utility functions.
The nodes labeledby c~ represent S when she wants to communicatec~, and those labeled by m~ represent R when shewants to interpret mi, for i = 1, 2.
The inferenceby R when interpreting message mi is a similartree rooted by mi.Although it is impossible to actually have com-mon knowledge in general (Halpern and Moses,1990), there are several motivations for the play-ers to pretend to have common knowledge aboutthe game.
First, they can avoid the computationalcomplexity in dealing with infinite trees such asabove.
Second, common belief on the game isa simple means to obtain common belief on thecommunicated content.
Third, the best payoff isobtained when the players have common knowl-edge about the game, if their utility functions areequal.
In fact, the utility functions are proba-bly equal, because language use as a whole is arepeated game.
That is, provided that commu-nicating agents play the role of S and R half ofthe time each, they can maximize their expectedutility by setting their utility functions to the av-erage of their selfish utilities.
Fortunately, thisequalization is very stable, as long as the successof communication is the only source of positiveutility for both the players.In communication games, common knowledgeon which message S has sent should help theplayers converge on common belief on the game.That is, when the players have common knowl-edge that message m was sent, they may be ableto detect errors in their embedded beliefs.
In fact,an embedded belief turns out wrong if it implies~rs(mlc ) = 0 for every c in the embedded context.This common knowledge about m may be evenincorporated in the meaning game.
That is, itmay affect the cost of retrieving or composing var-ious content-message pairs, thus biasing the scopeof the game towards those content-message pairsclosely associated with m. Contents and messagesvery difficult to envisage given m will be virtuallyexcluded from the game.
Once the game is de-fined, however, both players must take into con-sideration the entire maximal connected subgraphcontaining the content she wants to convey or themessage she wants to interpret.5 Compos i te  GameNatural-language communication is a compositegame in two senses.
First, as mentioned in theprevious ection, it is considered a repeated game,which is a sequence of smaller games.
Second,each such smaller game is a compound game con-sisting of temporally overlapping meaning ames.These facts introduce several complications intothe communication game.534Clmlcl c2Zl~ l Tt%2 Tfg l m2hA AACl C2 Cl C2 C1 C2 C1 C2: : : : : : : :m2C1 C 2ml m2 ml m2?h AAC1 C2 C1 C2 CI  C2 C l  C 2: : : : : : : :Figure 4: Inference by S to communicate semantic ontent cl.In a repeated game, one stage may affect thesubsequent stage.
In natural-language communi-cation, a meaning game can influence the nextmeaning game.
For instance, if a semantic on-tent c is referred to by a message with a low cost,then the probability of reference to c may increaseas a sort of accommodation, 1~ because a referenceby a lightweight message presupposes high priorprobability of reference, as discussed in Section 3.For instance, a reference to Fred by 'he' will raisethe salience of Fred.Another type of contextual effect shows up thefollowing discourse.
(4) ul: Fred scolded Max.u2: The man was angry with him.Here 'the man' and 'he' in u2 are more readilyinterpreted as Fred and Max, respectively, whichviolates (3) and hence our game-theoretic a count.This preference is accounted for by the prefer-ence for parallelism concerning the combinationof semantic ontent and grammatical function: Inboth ul and u~.
Fred is realized by the subjectNP and Max is realized by the object NP.
This isthe same sort of preference that is addressed byproperty-sharing constraint (Kameyama, 1986).This effect is attributed to the utility assignmentas shown in Figure 5.
That is, the utility U1 ofassociating t he proposition angry(Fred, Max) (thatl~ed is angry with Max) with the sentence 'Theman was angry with him' is greater than the util-ity (/2 of associating angry(Max,Fred) (the propo-sition that Max is angry with Fred) with the same11Lewis (1979) discusses everal types of accommo-dation for conversationM score, of which the most rel-evant here is accommodation forcomparative salience:x becomes more salient han y when something is saidwhich presupposes x to be more salient han y.probability: /91 ~ P2angry(Fred,Max) angry(Max,Fred)utility:'The man was angry with him'Figure 5: A meaning ame about propositions andsentences.sentence.
This game might involve other possibleassociations such as that between angry(Max,Fred)and 'The man made him angry,' but as mentionedat the end of Section 4 contents and messagesother than included in Figure 5 probably accom-pany great costs and hence may be neglected.In general, several meaning games are playedpossibly in parallel during linguistic communica~tion using a compound expression.
A turn of corn=munication with an utterance of 'the man was an-gry with him' consists of the sentence-level gamementioned above, the two noun phrase-level games- -  one concerning the subject NP (shown in Fig-ure 2) and the other the object NP of 'with' - -and so on.
A strategy of each player in sucha compound game associated with a compoundexpression is a combination of her strategies forall such constituent games.
Each player attemptsto maximize the expected utility over the entirecompound game, rather than for each constituentgame.Different constituent games often interact.
Forinstance, if the speaker chooses to say 'the man'for the subject NP, then the whole sentence can-535not be 'he was angry with the man.'
So a globalsolution, which maximizes the utility from the en-tire game, may maximize the utility from someconstituent games but not from others.
In theabove example, the global solution, which involvessaying 'the man was angry with him' and inter-preting it as angry(Fred,Ma?
), maximizes the util-ity from the sentence-level game but not from theNP-level games.
Incidentally, the players will gaingreater utility if they use the combination of an-gry(Fred,Max) and 'he was angry with the man,'which is consistent with the optimal equilibriumof the NP-games.
When 'the man was angry withhim' is used despite the smaller default utility as-sociated with it, Max will probably be assigned agreater salience than otherwise, which is again asort of accommodation.Extralinguistic context enters sentence-levelgames and plays an important role in languageuse.
For example, if it is known that Maxnever gets angry and that Fred is short-tempered,then both in (1) and (4) the second utterancewill preferably be interpreted as meaning an-gry(Fred,Max).6 Conc lus ionMeaning game captures nonnatural meaning inthe restricted sense which obtains in basicallyall the cases of natural-language communication.The factors which define a meaning ame includegrammatical function, reference by lightweightmessage, extralinguistic nformation (these affectP), grammar, cost of recalling (these affect theutility), and so on.
To have a more completegame-theoretic a count of natural language, weneed a quantitative characterization f how thosefactors contribute to the game.We have almost restricted ourselves to refer-ences of nouns phrases, but the seemingly promis-ing targets of game-theoretic a count of naturallanguage apparently include binding theory, con-vcrsational implicature (Parikh, 1992), and so on.Since our account is very general in nature, how-ever, it should apply to language as a whole.
Forinstance, the notion of grammaticality may wellbe attributed to the computational difficulty inconvergence to a common game-theoretic equilib-rium.
Also, abductive inference involved in lan-guage understanding (Hobbs et al, 1993) (hencein language production, too, fl'om the game-theoretic, reciprocal viewpoint) is closely relatedwith our theory.
That is, the particular usefulnessof abduction in natural anguage communicationcould be ascribed to the fact that language use inessence is a collaborative interaction such as dis-cussed so far.Re ferencesH.
Paul Grice.
1957.
Meaning.
Philosophical Re-view, 66:377-388.H.
Paul Grice.
1969.
Utterer's meaning and in-tentions.
Philosophical Review, 68(2):147= 177.Barbara J. Grosz, Aravind K. Joshi, and ScottWeinstein.
1995.
Centering: A frameworkfor modeling the local coherence of discource.Computational Linguistics, 21(2):203-225.Joseph Y. Halpern and Yoram Moses.
1990.Knowledge and common-knowledge in a dis-tributed environment.
Journal of the ACM,37(3):549-587.Jerry R. Hobbs, Mark E. Stickel, Douglous E. Ap-pelt, and Paul Martin.
1993.
Interpretation asabduction.
Artificial Intelligence, 63(1-2):69-142.Aravind K. Joshi and Scott Weinstein.
1981.Control of inference: Role of some aspects ofdiscourse structure - -  centering.
In Proceed-ings of the 7th International Joint Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence, pages 385-387.Megumi Kameyama.
1986.
A property-sharingconstraint in centering.
In Proceedings of the2~th Annual Meeting of ACL, pages 200-206.David Lewis.
1979.
Scorekeeping in a languagegame.
Journal of Philosophical Logic, 8:339359.Martin J. Osborne and Ariel Rubinstein.
1994.A Course in Game Theory.
The MIT Press,Cambridge, Massachusetts.Prashant Parikh.
1992.
A game-theoretic a countof implicature.
In Proc.
of the Fourth Confer-ence on Theoretical Aspects of Reasoning AboutKnowledge, pages 85-94, Monterey, CA.C.
Raymond Perrault and James F. Allen.
1980.A plan-based analysis of indirect speech act.American Journal of Computational Linguis-tics, 6(3-4):167-182.C.
Raymond Perrault.
1990.
An application ofdefault logic to speech act theory.
In Philip R.Cohen, J. Morgan, and Martha E. Pollack, edi-tors, Intentions in COMMUNICATION, pages161-185.
MIT Press.A.
Michael Spence.
1973.
Job market signaling.Quartery Journal of Economics, 87:355-74.Marilyn Walker, Masayo Iida, and Sharon Cote.1994.
Japanese discourse and the pro-cess of centering.
Computational Linguistics,20(2):193-232.A.
Zahavi.
1975.
Mate selection - -  a selectionfor a handicap.
Journal of Theoretical Biology,53:205-214.536
