Bridging Textual EllipsesUdo Hahn Michael Strube Katja MarkertFreiburg University(~ Computational Linguistics LabEuropaplatz 1, D-79085 Freiburg, Germany{hahn, struhe, markert}@coling.uni-freiburg.deAbstract (1) a.We present a hybrid text understandingmethodology for the resolution of textualellipsis.
It integrates language-independentconceptual criteria and language-dependentfunctional constraints.
The methodologi-cal framework for text ellipsis resolution isthe centering model that has been adaptedto constraints reflecting the functional infor-mation structure within utterances, i.e., thedistinction between context-bound and un-bound discourse lements.b.e .Der 316127" wird mit einem Nicke l-Metatt-llydride-Akku bestfickt.0"he 316LT is - with a nickel-metal-hydride accu-mulator - equipped.
)Der Rechner wird durch diesen neuartigen Akkuftir 4 Stunden mit Strom versorgt.
(l'he computer is- because of this new type of ac-cumulator - for 4 hours - with power - provided.
)Dariaberhinmls ist die Ladezeit mit 1,5 Smndensehr kurz.
(Also - is - the charge time of 1.5 hours quiteshort.
)1 IntroductionText phenomena, e.g., textual forms of ellipsis andanaphora re a challenging issue for the design ofparsers for text understanding systems, since lack-ing recognition lacilities either esult in referentiallyincoherent or invalid text knowledge representations.At the conceptual level, textual ellipsis (also calledfunctional anaphora) relates aquasi-anaphoric expres-sion to its extrasentential antecedent by conceptualattributes (or roles) associated with that antecedent(see, e.g., the relation between "Ladezeit" (chargetime) and "Al&u" (accumulator) in (lc) and (lb)).Thus, it complements he phenomenon of nominalanaphora, where an anaphoric expression is related toits antecedent in terms of conceptual generalization(as, e.g., "'Rechner" (computer) refers to "'316LT",a particular notebook, in (lb) and (la)).
The resolu-tion of text-level nominal (and pronominal) anaphoracontributes to the construction of referentially validtext knowledge bases, while the resolution of textualellipsis yields referentially coherent text knowledgebases.
Both phenomena tend to interact, as evidencedby the examples below.
"Akku" (accumulator) in(lb) is a nominal anaphor referring to "Nickel-Metall-llydride-Akku" (nickel-metal-hydride accumulator) in(1 a), which, when resolved, provides the proper efer-ent for relating "Ladezeit" (charge time) in (lc) to it.In the case of textual ellipsis, the missing conceptuallink between two discourse lements occurring in ad-jacent utterances must be inferred in order to establishthe local coherence of the discourse (for an early state-merit of that idea, cf.
Clark (1975)).
In sentence (lc)the information is missing that "Ladezeit" (chargetime) links up with "Akku" (accumulator).
This re-lation can only be made explicit if conceptual knowl-edge about he domain, viz.
the relation charge-time-ofbetween the concepts CIIARGE-TIMF, and ACCUMU-LATOR, is available.The solution we propose is embedded within thecentering model (Grosz et al, 1995).
In this approach,discourse ntities linking successive utterances ~in adiscourse segment are organized in terms of centers.Local coherence in discourse is established whenevera center element of the previous utterance is associ-ated with an expression that has a valid semantic in-teq~retation (i.e., is realized) in the following utter-ance.
Textual ellipsis has only been given insufficienttreatment within the centering model in terms of rathersketchy realization conditions as opposed to the moreelaborated constraints for (pro)nominal naphora.
Theheuristics we propose include language-independentconceptual criteria and language-dependent infor-mation structure constraints reflecting the context-boundedness or unboundedness of discourse lementswithin the considered utterances.4962 Constraints on Conceptua lL inkageThis section provides a highly condensed expositionof the conceptual constraints underlying the resolu-tkm of textual ellipses.
A much more detailed pre-sentation is given by H~dm et al (1996).
The con-straints we posit require a domain knowledge base toconsist of concepts and conceptual roles linking theseconcepts.
Concepts and roles are hierarchically or-dered by subsumption (a terminological knowledgerepresentation framework is assumed; cf.
Woods &Schmolze (1992)).In order to determine suitable conceptual links be-tween ~m antecedent and an elliptic expression, wedistinguish two modes of constraining the linkage be-tween concepts via conceptual roles.
In the processof path finding an extensive unidirectional search isperformed in the domain knowledge base and formalwell-formedness conditions holding for paths betweentwo concepts are considerexl, viz.
complete connec-tivity (compatibility of domains and ranges of the in-cluded relations), non-cyclicity (exclusion of inversesof relations) and non-redundancy (exclusion of includ-ing paths).The mode of path evaluation incorporates empiri-cally plausible criteria in order to select he strongestsof the ensuing Imths.
Based on mmlyses of approxi-mately 60 product reviews from the informatkm tech-nok)gy domain and experimental evidences from sev-eral (psycho)linguistic studies (e.g., Chaffin (1992)),we state certain predefined path patterns.
From thosegeneral troth patterns and by virtue of the hierarchicalorganizatkm of conceptual relations, concrete concep-tual role chains cau atttomatically be derived in a ter-minological r~tsoning system.
As a consequence, wemay distinguish between a subset of all types of well-lormed paths, which is labelext "plausible", anothersubset which is labeled "metonymic", and all remain-ing paths which are labeled "implausible".
Examplesof plausible paths are all paths of length 1 - -  they areexplicitly encoded in the domain's concept descrip-tkms and are therefore "plausible", by definition - -or any series of transitive relations, e.g.
has-physical-part relations.
Following well-established typologiesof metonymies (Lakoff, 1987) we include producer-for-product, part-for-whole, and whole-for-part pat-terns among the metonymic paths.The computation of paths between an antecedentz and an elliptic expression 9, however, may yieldseveral types of well-lormed paths, viz.
"plausible","metonymic" or "implausible".
For proper selectionwe define a ranking on those path labels according totheir intrinsic conceptual strength in terms of the re-lation ">~-~,t,."
(conceptually stronger than) (cf.
Ta-ble l).As a consequence of this ordering, "metonymic"1~:t ~ausiblc'' >~.-.,t,.
"mctonymic" >c-st,.
"implausible" \]Table 1: Path Labels Ordered by Concepttml Strengthpaths will be excluded from a path list iff "plausible"paths already exist, while "implausible" paths will beexcluded iff"plausible" or "metonymic" paths alreadyexist.
At the end of this selection process, only pathsof the strongest type are retained in the tinal path list.All conceptual paths which meet the above link-age criteria for two concepts, z and y, are containedin the final list denoted by CP<v.
As, in the caseof textual ellipsis, we have to deal with imths lead-ing fi'om the elliptical expression to several altenmtivcantecedents, we usually have to compare pairs of pathlists CP~,, vand CP,:,~, where x, y, z are concepts.
Ob-viously, the criterion which ranks conceptual paths ac-cording to their associated path markers is applicableas all paths in a single CP list have the same marker.A function, PathMarker(CPi,j), yields either "plausi-ble", "metonymic" or "imphmsible" depending on thetype of lmths the list contains.
Hence, the same or-dering of path markers as in Table 1 can be applied tocompare two CP lists (of.
Table 2).
: .
.
.
.
.
1 PathMarker(CP,,,j) > .... z,.
PathMarker(CP.,: ~) \[asStrongAs (CPx ;:, C1),~: ~) :?~, \]PathMarker((','P.~, v) ~- PathMarker(CP~, z) 1Table 2: Path Lists Compared by Conceptual Strength3 Constraints on CentersConceptual criteria re of tremendous importance, butthey are not sufficient for proper ellipsis resolution.Additional criteria have to be supplied in the case ofequal strength of CP lists for alternative antecedents.We therefore incorporate into our model criteria whichrelate to the fimctional information structure of ut-terances using the methodological framework of thewell-known centering model (Grosz et al, 1995).
Ac-cordingly, we distinguish each utterance's backward-looking center (Cb (U,~)) and its forward-looking cen-ters (Cf(U~)).
The ranking imposed on the ele-ments of the CI rellccts the assumption that the mosthighly ranked element of Cy (U,~) is the most preferredantecedent of an anaphoric (or elliptical) expresskmin IJ,,+~, while the remaining elements are orderedby decreasing preference for establishing refereutiallinks.The main difference between Grosz et al's workand our proposal (see Strube & Hahn (1996)) con-cerns the criteria for r~mking the forward-looking cen-ters.
While Grosz et al assume that grammaticalroles are the major determinant for the ranking on the497C t, we claim that for languages with relatively freeword order (such as German), it is the functional infor-mation structure (IS) of the utterance in terms of thecontext-boundedness or unboundedness of discourseelements.
The centering data structures and the no-tion of context-boundedness can be used to redefineDane~' (1974) trichotomy between given information,theme and new information (or rheme).
The Cb(Un),the most highly ranked element of Cf (U,~ _ 1 ) realizedin U~, corresponds tothe element which represents hegiven information.
The theme of U,~ is represented bythe preferred center Cp (U,~), the most highly rankedelement of C!
(Un).
The theme/rheme hierarchy of Unis determined by the C\] (U,~_ 1): the most rhematic el-ements of U,~ are the ones not contained in C!
(U,~_ J(unbound iscourse lements), they express the newinformation in U,~.
The distinction between context-bound and unbound elements i important for the rank-ing on the Cf, since bound elements are generallyranked higher than any other non-anaphoric elements(cf.
also Hajieovfi et al (1992)).bound element(s) >rsb,,, unbound element(s)anaphora >XSbo,,~ elliptical antecedent>XSbo,,d elliptical expressionnom headt >p~,~ nom head2 >p~,~ ... >p~,~ nom head,~Table 3: Functional Ranking Constraints on the CfThe constraints holding for the ranking on the Cffor German are summarized in Table 3.
They areorganized at three layers.
At the top, ">,Sbo,o" de-notes the basic relation for the overall ranking of in-formation structure (IS) patterns.
The second relation,">r ~bo un d "' denotes preference r lations dealing exclu-sively with multiple occurrences of bound elements inthe preceding utterance.
Finally, ">~.~o" covers thepreference order for multiple occurrences of the sametype of any information structure pattern, e.g., the oc-currence of two anaphora or two unbound elements(all nominal heads in an utterance are ordered by lin-ear precedence in terms of their text position).
Giventhese basic relations, we may formulate the compositerelation ">,s" (Table 4), It summarizes the criteria forthe ordering of the items on the Cf (x and y denotelexical heads).>rs :: { (x, y) I/fx and y represent the same type of IS patternthen the relation >p.,c applies to x and yelse ifx and y represent different formsof bound elementsthen the relation >iSbo, nd applies to x and yelse the relation >rsb,,, applies to x and y }Table 4: Information Structure Relation4 Predicates for Textual EllipsisThe grammar formalism we use (for a survey, cf.Hahn et al (1994)) is based on dependency rela-tions between lexical heads and modifiers.
The de-pendency specifications allow a tight integration oflinguistic (grammar) and conceptual knowledge (do-main model), thus making powerful terminologicalreasoning facilities directly available for the parsingprocess.
1 The resolution of textual ellipses is basedon two major criteria, a conceptual and a structuralone.
The conceptual strength criterion for role chainsis already specified in Table 2.
The structural condi-tion is embodied in the predicate isPotentialElliptic-Antecedent (cf.
Table 5).
A quasi-anaphoric elationbetween two lexical items in terms of textual ellipsis ishere restricted to pairs of nouns.
The elliptical phrasewhich occurs in the n-th utterance is restricted to bea definite NP and the antecedent must be one of theforward-looking centers of the preceding utterance.isPotentialElliptieAntecedent (y, x, n) :?~-y isac* Nominal A x isac* NounA 3 z: (x headz A z isac* DetDefinite)A x E U,~ Ay.r E Cf(U,~-x)Table 5: Potential Elliptic AntecedentThe predicate PreferredConceptualBridge (cf.
Ta-ble 6) combines both criteria.
A lexical item y is deter-mined as the proper antecedent of the elliptic expres-sion x iff it is a potential antecedent and if there existsno alternative antecedent z whose conceptual strengthrelative to z exceeds that of y or, if their conceptualstrength is equal, whose strength of preference underthe IS relation is higher than that ofy.PreferredConceptualBridge (y, x, n) :?~isPotentialEllipticAntecedent (y, x, n)A -~3 z : isPotentialEllipticAntecedent (z, x, n)A (StrongerThan (CP ........ CP .... y.~)V (asStrongAs (CP ........ CP .... ,j.~) A z >,s Y ) )Table 6: Preferred Conceptual Bridge5 Resolution of Textual EllipsisThe actor computation model (Agha & Hewitt, 1987)provides the background for the procedural interpre-tation of lexicalized grammar specifications, as those1We assume the following conventions to hold: C ={Word, Nominal, Noun, PronPersonal,...} denotes the set ofword classes, and isac = {(Nominal, Word), (Noun, Nomi-nal), (PronPersonal, Nominal),...} C C ?
g denotes the sub-class relation which yields a hierarchical ordering amongthese classes.
Furthermore, object.r efers to the instance inthe text knowledge base denoted by the linguistic ,item ob-ject and object.c refers to the corresponding concept class c.Head denotes astxuctural relation within dependency trees,viz.
x being the head of modifier y.498given in the previous section, in terms of so-calledword actors.
Word actors communicate via asyn-chronous message passing; an actor can only sendmessages to other actors it knows about, its so-calledacquaintances.
The arrival of a message at an actortriggers the execution of a method, a program com-posed of grammatical predicates.The resolution of textual ellipses depends on the re-sults of the foregoing resolution of nominal anaphors(Strube & Hahn, 1995) and the termination of the se-mantic interpretation of the current utterance.
It willonly be triggered at the occurrence of the definite nounphrase NP when NP is not a nominal anaphor and (thereferent of the) NP is only connected via certain typesof relations (e.g., has-property, has-physical-part) 2 oreferents denoted in the current utterance at the con-ceptual level.The protocol level of text analysis encompassesthe procedural interpretation of the grammatical con-straints from Section 4.
We will illustrate the protocolfor text ellipsis resolution (of.
Fig.
1), referring to thealready introduced text fragment (1) which is repeatedat the bottom line of Fig.
1.
(lc) contains the definite noun phrase "dieLadezeit".
Since "Ladezeit" (charge time) does notsubsume any word at the conceptual level in the pre-ceding text, the anaphora test fails; the definite nounphrase "die Ladezeit" has also not been integrated interms of a significant relation into the conceptual rep-resentation of the utterance as a result of  its seman-tic interpretation.
Consequently, a SearchTextEllip-sisAntecedent message is created by the word actor for"Ladezeit".
Message passing consists of two phases:1.
In phase 1, the message is forwarded from its ini-tiator "Ladezeit" to the forward-looking centersof the previous entence (an acquaintance of thatsentence's punctation mark), where its state is setto phase 2.ZAssociated with the set of conceptual roles is the set oftheir inverses.
This distinction becomes crucial for alreadyestablished relations like has-property (subsuming charge-time, etc.)
or has-physical-part (subsuming has-accumu-lator, etc.).
These relations do no__tt block the triggering ofthe resolution procedure for textual ellipsis (e.g., ACCUMU-LATOR -- charge-time - CI IARGE-T IME) ,  whereas instanti-ations of their inverses, we here refer to as POF-type rela-tions, e.g., property-of(subsuming charge-time-of, etc.)
andphysical-part-of(subsuming accumulator-of, etc.
), do (e.g.,ACCUMULATOR- accumulator-of- 316LT).
This is simplydue to the fact that the semantic interpretation of a phraselike "the charge time of the accumulator" already leads tothe creation of the POF-type relation the resolution mecha-nism for textual ellipsis is supposed to determine.
This is op-posed to the interpretation of its elliptified counterpart " hecharge time" in sentence (1c), where the genitive object "\[ofO J~ the accumulat r\] is zeroed and, thus, the role charge-time-of remains uninstantiated.'2.
In phase 2, the forward-looking centers of theprevious entence are tested for the predicate Pre-ferredConceptualBridge.In this case, the instance 316LT (the conceptual refer-ent of the nominal anaphor "der Rechner" (the com-puter), which has already been properly resolved)is related to CHARGE-TIME (the concept denoting"Ladezeit") via a metonymic path, viz.
(charge-time-of accumulator-of) indicating a whole-for-partmetonymy, while the concept ACCUMULATOR is re-lated to CHARGE-TIME via a plausible path (viz.charge-time-of).
As plausible paths are the strongesttype of conceptual paths, only an element which ismore highly ranked in the centering list and is linkedvia a plausible path to the elliptical expression couldbe preferred as the elliptic antecedent of "Ladezeit"(charge time) over "Akku" (accumulator) accordingto the constraint from Table 6.
As this can be ex-cluded the remaining concepts associated with the cur-rent forward-looking centers (namely, TIME-UNIT-PAIR and POWER) need no longer be considered.Hence, "Akku" is determined as the proper ellipti-cal antecedent 3.
As a consequence, a TextEllipsis-AntecedentFound message is sent from "Akku" tothe initiator of the SearchAntecedent message, viz."Ladezeit".
An appropriate role filler update linksthe corresponding concepts via the role charge-time-ofand, thus, local coherence is established at the concep-tual level of the text knowledge base.In order to illustrate our approach under slightlyvarying conditions, consider text fragment (2):(2) a.
Der 316LT geht sparsam it Energie um.
(The 316LTuses - sparingly - energy.
)b.C.Ne~unabh~a-agig w rd er fiir ca.
2 Stunden mitStrom versorgt.
(In a power supply-independent mode it is - forapproximately 2 hours - with power - provided.
)Wenn die Taktfrequenz herabgesetzt wird, reichtdie Energie sogar ~r 3 Stunden.
(When the clock frequency - is reduced - suffices- the power - even for 3 hours.
)Here, the elliptical expression "Taktfrequenz" (clockfrequency) can tentatively be related to three an-tecedents in the preceding sentence: "er" (it) (whichis an anaphoric expression for "316LT"), "Stun-den" (hours), and "Strom" (power).
Thus, in thepath finding mode paths from CLOCK-MIIZ-PAIR(the conceptual representation for "Taktfrequenz") to316LT, TIME-UNIT-PAIR (representing "Stunden"),3Note that only nouns and pronouns are capable of re-sponding to the SearchTextEllipsisAntecedent m ssage andof being tested as to whether they fulfill the required criteriafor an elliptical relation.499.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.Forward-looking cenber~- -~._  ~- -  SearehAnteaedent meJnage'~'', ~ ~ 3 1 6 L T  " ' ' ' - i ,  -~ ' " "  Anteced~ntFound men,age" ACCUMULATOR ................... ",TIME- UNI T~PAIR "'''"... "",Reckner ku~Dex/ /  durch fur mit die Stunden sehrAkku St~nden St r0m 1,5dlesen n euartlgen(ib) Der Beohner wird dur~h dienen neuar~igen Akku f~z 4 Stunden mlt Strom v~rnorgt.
(Ic) Daz~berhlnaus int dlm 1~dmzoit mit 1,5 Stunden nehr kurz.
(lh) The ~omputer i. bacauBe of thIB new typ.
of ac~mulator for 4 hours with powar provided.
(Ic) Alao.
i. the charge time of 1.5 hour.
quite ~hoxt.Figure 1: Sample Parseand POWER, respectively, are searched.
As only a sin-gle well-formed role chain from CLOCK-MIIZ-PAIRto 316LT can be determined (viz.
(clock-mhz-pair-ofcpu-of motherboard-of central-unit-oJ) ), "316LT" isselected as the valid elliptic antecedent.
Under thesecircumstances, conceptual linkage could not be estab-lished via a plausible path, but only via a metonymicpath, corresponding to a whole-for-part metonymy.This is due to the fact that "Taktfrequenz" (clock fre-quency) (conceptualized asCLOCK-MHZ-PAIR) is aproperty of the CPU of COMPUTER-SYSTEM and,therefore, only a mediated property of computers asa whole (hence, the whole-for-part metonymy).Evaluation.
A small-scale evaluation experimentwas conducted on a test set of 109 occurrences of tex-tual ellipses in 5 different exts taken from our cor-pus.
The evaluation used our knowledge base fromthe information technology domain, which consists of449 concepts and 334 relations.
Among 46 (42.2%)false negatives (no resolution triggered though textualellipsis occurs), the ellipsis handler encountered 42(38.5%) cases of lacking concept specifications (halfof which were gaps that can easily be closed, the otherhalf constituted by "soft" concepts (e.g., referring tospatial knowledge) which are hard to get hold of).
In4 of the 46 cases the conceptual model was adequatebut the triggering conditions were inappropriate.Among the 63 cases where the ellipsis handlerstarted processing 60 were correctly analyzed (recallrate of 55.05%), 2 modelling bugs were encounteredin the knowledge base, and one case was due to in-correct conceptual constraints.
Considering the per-formance of the criteria we propose - -  disregardingeffects that come from deficient knowledge ngineer-ing, i.e.
restricting the evaluation to the 63 cases runby the ellipsis handler - -  the precision rate amountsto 95.2%.With respect o accuracy, however, we still haveto consider the actual number of textual ellipses pro-cessed including false positives, i.e., cases where thefor Text Ellipsis Resolutionellipsis resolution iscarried out although no textual elmlipsis actually occurs.
Altogether, the ellipsis handlerwas triggered 82 times, thus it was incorrectly trig-gered in 19 cases (23.2%).
12 of these 19 false posi-tives were due to insufficiencies of the parsing process(it failed to create suitable semantic/conceptual repre-sentations blocking the triggering of the ellipsis han-dler).
In 4 cases the anaphora resolution process failedto resolve an anaphor, thus leading to an incorrect callof the ellipsis handler, and in the 3 remaining cases thetriggering condition was not restrictive nough.
Thiscondition gives an overall accuracy score of 73.2%.6 Comparison with Related ApproachesAs far as text-level processing isconcerned, the frame-work of DRT (Kamp & Reyle, 1993), at tirst sight,constitutes a particularly strong alternative to our ap-proach.
The machinery of DRT, however, might workwell for (pro)nominal anaphora, but faces problemswhen elliptical text phenomena are to be interpreted(though Wada (1994) has recently made an attemptto deal withrestricted forms of textual ellipsis in theDRT context).
This shortcoming is simply due tothe fact that DRT is basically a semantic theory, nota full-tledged model for text understanding.
In par-ticular, it lacks any systematic onnection to well-developed reasoning systems accounting for concep-tual domain knowledge.
Actually, the sort of con-straints we considered seem much more rooted in en-cyclopedic knowledge than are they of a primarily se-mantic nature anyway.As far as proposals lot the analysis of textual ellipsisare concerned, none of the standard grammar theories(e.g., HPSG, LFG, GB, CG, TAG) covers this issue.This is not at all surprising, as their advocates pay al-most no attention to the text level of linguistic descrip-tion (with the exception of several forms of anaphora)and also do not seriously take conceptual criteria be-yond semantic features into account.
Hence their in-determination with respect o conceptually driven in-ferencing in the context of text understanding.500Actttally, only few systems exist which deal withtexttml ellipsis in a dedicated way.
For example, thePUNDIT system (Palmer et al (1986)) provides afairly restricted solution in that only direct conceptuallinks between the concept denoted by the antecedentand the elliptical expression are considered ("plausi-ble" paths of length 1, in our terminology).
A pattern-based approach to infereucing (inchtding textual el-lipsis) has also been put forward by Norvig 11989).The main dillerence to our work lies in the fact thatthese path patterns (to not take the compositional prop-erties of relations into accotmt (e.g., transitive rela-tions).
Furthermore, numerical constraints like pathlength restrictions am posited without motivating theirorigin, whereas we state fomml well-formedness andempirical criteria the evidence for which is derivedli'om psycholinguistic studies.
The abduction-basedapproach to in ferencing underlying the TACITUS sys-tem (ltobbs et al (1993)) also refers to weights andcosts and, thus, shares some sinfilarity with Norvig'sproposal (Hobbs ct al., 1993, p. 122).
Moreover,the crucial problem still unsolved in this logicallyvery principled framework concerns a proper choicemethodology lor fixing appropriate costs for specificassmnptions on which, among other factors, textualellipsis resolution is primarily based.
The approachreportexl in this paper also extends our own previouswork on textual ellipses (H~flm, 1989) by the incor-poration of an elaboratexl model of ftmctional prefer-enccs on (/1 elements.7 ConclusionWe have outlined a model of textual ellipsis resolution.It conskters conceptual criteria to be o1' primary impor-tance and provides linkage constraints for role paths ina terminological knowledge base in order to assess theplausibility of possible, antecexlents as proper bridges(Clark, 1975) to elliptical expressions.
In addition,futtctional information structttre constraints contributefurther restrictkms on proper elliptical antecedents.Tim particular advantage of our approach lies in theintegrated treatment of textual ellipsis within a singlecoherent grmnmar lormat that integrates linguistic andconceptual criteria in terms of general constraints.The ellipsis handler has been implemented inSmalltalk as part of a comprehensive t xt parser lotGerman.
Besides the intormation technology domain,expcriments with ottr parser have also been success-fully run on medical domain texts, thus indicating thatthe heuristics we have been developing arc not boundto a particular domain, The current lexicon containsa hierarchy of approximately 100 word class spec-ilications with nearly 3.000 lexical entries and co lresponding concept descriptions available from theLOOM knowledge representation system (MacGregor& Bates, 1987) --- 800 and 500 concept/role spccifi-cations for the inlormation technology and medicinedomain, respectively.Acknowledgments.
We would like to fllank our colleaguesin tim C?Z9 r group for fmitfifl discussions.
This work hasbeen funded by LGFG Baden-Wiirttemberg (M. Stuff)e).Katja Markert is supported by a grant from DFG within theFreiburg University Graduate Program on "tluman and Ar.tificial Intelligence".
We also gratefully acknowledge timprovision of tim LOOM system f:mm USC/ISI.ReferencesAgha, G. & C. \[lewitt (1987).
Concurrent programmingusing actors.
In A. Yonezawa & M. rlbkoro reds.
),Object-Oriented Concurrent Progrwnming, pp.
37- 53.
(?aml)ridge, Mass.
: Mrl' Press.Chaffin, R. (1992).
The concept of semantic relations.
InA.
Imhrer & E. Kittay rEds.
), Frames, Fields and Con-trasts, pp.
253-288.
Hillsdale, N.J.: 1,.
Erlbaum.Clark, H. H. (1975).
Bridging.
In TINLAP-I, pp.
169- 174.Dane.~, F. (1974).
Functkmal sentence perspective andtim organization of tim text.
in F. Dancg rEd.
), Pa-pers on FunctionalSentence Perspective, pp.
11)6- 128.Prague: Academia.Grosz, B. J., A. K. Joshi & S. Weinstein (1995).
Centering: A t}amework for modeling file local coherence ofdiscourse.
Computational Linguistics, 21 (2):203-225.Hahr,, U.
11989).
Making understanders out of parsers: Se-mantically driven parshlg as a key concept tot realistictext understanding applications.
InternationalJoumralof Intelligent Systems, 4(3):345-393.Hahn, U., K. Markert & M. Strube 11996).
A conceptualreasoning approach to the resolution of textual ellipses.In Prec.
of ECAI-96.Hahn, U., S. Schacht & N. Br6ker 11994).
Concurrent,object-oriented dependency parsing: The ParseTalkmodel.
International Journal of lluman-ComputerStudies, 41(1/2): 179-222.l laji&wfi, E., V. Kubofi & P. Kubofi (1992).
Stock of sharedknowledge: A tool for solving pronominal anaphora.In Prec.
ofCOLING-92, Vol.
1, t)p. 127 -133.Hobbs, J. R., M. E. Stickel, D. E. Apl)elt & P. Mmlin(1993).
Interpretation as abduction.
Artificial lnteLligence, 63:6%142.Kamp, H. & U. Reyle (1993).
\[')'om Discourse to Logic.I)ordrecht: Kluwer.Lakoft, G. (1987).
Women, Nre, and Dangerous Things.Chicago: Chicago University Press.MacGregor, R. & R. Bates (1987).
The LOOM KnowledgeRepresemationLanguage.
(1S1/RS-87-18) USC/ISI.Norvig, P. (1989).
Marker passing as a weak melhod forinferencing.
Cognitive Science, 13(4):569 620.Pahner, M. S., D. A. Dahl, R. J. Schiffman & L. 1 lirschman(:1986).
Recovering imt)licit infornlation, hi l'roc, ofACL-86, pp.
10-19.Strube, M. & U. Hahn (1995).
ParseTalk about sentence-and text-level atlaphora.
In Prec.
of EACL05, pp.
237-244.Stnfl~e, M. & U. ltahn (:1996).
Functional centering.
In Prec.of ACL-96.Wada, 1|.
(1994).
A Irealment of functional dctinite descrip-tions.
In Prec.
ofCOLING-94, Vol.
2, pp.
789 -795.Woods, W. A.
& J. O. Schmolze (1992).
The KL-ONEfmnily.
Computers & Mathematics with Applications,23(2-5): 133-177.501
