Arguments desperatelyseeking Interpretation:Parsing German InfinitivesChr i s topher  Laenz l ingerMar t in  S. U lmannEr ic  Wehrl i*LATL  - Depar tment  of  L ingu is t icsUn ivers i ty  of  Geneva  CH-1206 Genevalaenz l inger@lat l .un ige .ch ,  u lmann@lat l .un ige .ch ,  wehr l i@lat l .un ige .chAbst ractIn this paper we present a GB-parsingsystem for German and in particularthe system's strategy for argument in-terpretation, which copes with the dif-ficulty that word order is relatively freein German and also that arguments canprecede their predicate.
In this lattercase, the parser makes a provisional in-terpretation, which is checked when theargument structure of the predicate isavailable.
Moreover, a strategy of argu-ment transfer is used in eases of long-distance scrambling, according to whicharguments and adjuncts are attached tothe domain of the coherent verb, ECMverb, or raising verb, and transferred tothe infinitival complement for interpre-tation.1 In t roduct ionFree word order languages raise difficulties forparsing systems based on phrase-structure ulegrammars, where the constituents are ordered.
In-deed, to list all the possible orders leads to an in-crease in the grammar size and a correspondingdecrease in performance.
There have been severalapproaches to this problem, notably those basedon the ID/LP (immediate dominance/linear prece-dence) grammars (eft Gazdar et al 1985) or func-tional unification grammars (cf.
Karttunnen &:Kay 1985).
Within the Government and Bindingframework, Kashket (1991) presents a parser forWarlpiri, a non-configurational l nguage, whereword order and its variation depends mainly oncase marking.Although German is a partially free word or-der language, we will assume that it has a fixedbase word order, which is modified by a set ofmovement ransformations.
In this paper, wewill present he argument interpretation strategy*Thanks to Scott Fergusson for comments.
Thiswork has been supported in part by a grant from theFNRS, grant no 11-33731.92of our parser for German, which is able to han-dle the difficulties arising from word order vari-ations, focusing on the treatment of infinitivalconstructions.
12 The  D IPS  Parser2.1 Genera l  P roper t ies  o f  D IPSDIPS (Deutsches Interaktives Parsing System'German Interactive Parsing System') is a large-scale interactive GB-based 2 parsing system.
Itsarchitecture is basically similar to that of IPS(Wehrli 1992) and FIPS (Laenzhnger 8z Wehrli1991).
The parser produces a set of GB S-structures (trees) from an input sentence.
Thesestructures are associated with information con-cerning traces, argument structure, and case fea-tures.The syntactic structure of constituents corre-sponds to the GB X-schema.
We consider Ger-man to be an SOV-language (i.e.
objects precedetheir predicates in their base position).
Thus, theX-schema is parameterized in German as follows:The complement (Compl) precedes the head X ?for the categories V, A, I, whereas it follows thehead for the categories C, D, P, N, Adv.
3 Asthe specifier (Spec) is always on the left, the X-schema has the structure given in (1).
(1) XP --, Spec X-~ X ?
Compl, if X?
:{C ?, D O , po, N O 'Adv ?
}-~ Compl X ?, if X?={V ?, A ?, I ?
}On the basis of this schema, the clause structurein German has the general representation given in1 There are other proposals to deal with infinitivalconstructions in German: Netter 1986 discusses anLFG approach, and ~ambow 1994 uses a variation ofTAG.2 C/.
Chomsky & Lasnik 1992, Haegeman 1994for a presentation of Government and Binding The-ory (GB), and Berwick et al 1991, Wehrll 1988 for apossible implementation f the theory.aWe assume Abney's 1987 DP-hypothesis, accord-ing to which the head of a noun phrase is the deter-miner (D O ).681Figure 1.CPSpec CSpec IVPSpee VCompl V ?Figure 1: Structure of a German clause2.2 Genera l  Pars ing  St ra tegyThe parsing strategy is data-triggered (mainlybottom-up), proceeds from left to right, and treatsalternatives in parallel by using a chart (cf.
Kay1980/1986 and Kaplan 1973).
The analysis ofa sentence proceeds at two levels: the lexicallevel and the syntactic level.
The lexical analy-sis looks up the words in the lexicon; each lexicalitem (word) projects the node corresponding toits category; thus, the lexieal features are trans-ferred to the syntactic level in accordance withthe Projection Principle (Chomsky 1981).
Theprojected node is then inserted into the chart asan edge.
The syntactic analysis builds all possiblestructures by making use of cross-category projec-tions (similar to Grimshaw's 1991 "extented pro-jections") and attachments, which are further fil-tered by grammatical constraints; structure build-ing is incremental, as the current constituent isimmediately integrated into the existing hypothe-ses.A cross-category projection creates a new con-stituent with the same start and end vertex in thechart as the subconstituent from which it is pro-jected.
This kind of projection is limited to somecategories and triggered by intrinsic features.
Forinstance, an infinitival verb projects the structurein Figure 1 from VP to CP.Attachment combines the current constituentwith the constituents which immediately precedethis current constituent in the chart.
Attachmentscan be divided into two different ypes of combi-nation:1.
A constituent of the left context is attachedto the current constituent (left attachment).2.
The current constituent is attached to a con-stituent of the left context (right attach-ment).In order to keep track of where a constituent canbe attached in the structure, a list of active nodesspecifics the potential attachment sites; this list issystematically updated.
Attachments are furtherconstrained as follows:?
Formal attachments are restricted to adja-cent constituents and are licensed by lexi-eal properties uch as selection or agreement(e.g.
auxiliary-verb selection, determiner-noun agreement).?
Non-formal attachments concern thematiccomplements and are licensed by subcatego-rization and theta properties.The second type of attachment requires a specificargument interpretation strategy (AIS) to estab-lish the link between the argument and the pred-icate which subcategorizes it.2.3 The  Argument  In terpretat ionS t ra tegyThe aim of the AIS is to match the arguments withthe subcategorization properties (argument struc-ture) of the predicate, and thus to establish an in-terpretation, which corresponds to the assignmentof the thematic roles.
The argument structure ofa verb (predicate) is provided by the lexicon andspecifies the number and type of arguments thatthe predicate can take; while there can be morethan one argument structure for a verb at the lex-ical level, there is only one argument able for a(verb) node at the syntactic level, which containsthe arguments of the clause.
This argument a-ble is matched with the corresponding argumentstructures, which has the effect of filtering the in-appropriate argument structures.The AIS has to deal with two types of difficul-ties: first, the predicate (with its argument struc-ture) is not always available at the time the argu-ment is attached; second, the large number of pos-sible word orders in German makes the argument'sgrammatical function difficult to determine.The argument structure is only available ff themain verb (predicate) occurs in C o , that is thesecond position in the clause (verb second withthe main verb), and thus at most one argumentprecedes the verb.
In this case, a final interpreta-tion of the arguments is established immediately(at the moment of attachment); the argumentsare inserted into the definitive argument able ofthe clause and interpreted by being matched withthe argument structure of the verb (theta assign-ment); if more than one interpretation is possible,different hypotheses are considered in parallel.
Ifthe verb follows the arguments, they are also in-serted into the argument table, with a provisionalinterpretation.
4 The matching between the argu-4This strategy seems to have psycholinguistic sup-682ment table and the argument structure ventuallytakes place at the time the main verb is attached.The task of identifying the grammatical func-tion of an argument is complicated by the largenumber of possible word orders, which resultsfrom the interaction of three syntactic processes:verb second, scrambling, and extraposition.
Theverb second constraint requires that the tensedverb occupies the second position of the mainclause; for the first position, however, a large num-ber of constituents (XP) is possible, such as thesubject, an object, an adjunct, an empty opera-tor.
Scrambhng is a process that modifies the or-der of clause-internal rguments and adjuncts un-der some constraints (cf.
for instance, Uszkoreit1987).
Extraposition is the occurrence of preposi-tional or sentential complements or adjuncts afterthe verb in its base position V ?.
Thus, the gram-matical function of an argument depends not onlyon its position, but also on case and agreement in-formation and (scrambling) ordering constraints.The interpretation module works as follows:The first step is to check whether there are ar-guments to be interpreted.
If so, it is furtherchecked whether the main verb is available, withthe argument structures.
In ease it is not avail-able, the new argument is inserted into the provi-sional argument able (and its interpretation canbe checked only later, when the argument struc-ture is available).
If it is available, the new ar-gument is matched with the argument structures;if there is a provisional argument able instead ofone argument, the matching is effeeted for each ar-gument in turn.
Thus, the list of argument struc-tures is filtered and a list of new argument tables isreturned.
For each of these argument ables, it ischecked whether its arguments obey the orderingconstraints.
If so, the new structure is completedand for each argument that is not in its base posi-tion, a chain is created to hnk the argument withthat position, in which a trace is inserted.Let us illustrate how the analysis proceeds onthe basis of the sentence in (2).
(2) Die Kinder haben dieseu Bericht gelesen.
'the children have this report read'the children have read this report.When the parser reads the verb haben, the gen-eral clause structure (el.
Figure 1) is projectedfrom 7P to CP, triggered by the tensed verb, whichis placed in C o leaving a head trace in V ?
and in I ?.Then, the first constituent die Kinder is attachedas the specifier of the CP.As this first constituent is morphologically am-biguous between ominative and accusative, it canbc interpreted a priori as a subject or as a directobject.
For the hypothesis of haben as a main verbport:  German speakers assign an in terpretat ion  toarguments even before the predicate is available (el.Bader & Lasser 1993).or of a verb with particle, the argument structureis available: diesen Bericht is the direct objectand die Kinder the subject.
This hypothesis, how-ever, fails when the parser arrives at the participlegelesen.
For the hypothesis of haben as an auxil-iary, die Kinder is inserted into the provisionalargument able as the subject or the direct ob-ject of a forthcoming verb and diesen Bericht isinserted as direct object.
When the past partici-ple is read, the arguments are matched with theargument structure of gelesen: die Kinder as sub-ject and diesen Bericht as direct object.
A traceis inserted into the specifier of IP for the subject,and another trace into the complement of VP forthe direct object, as illustrated in (3).
(3) \[el,  \ [Dr die Kinder \ ] j \ [~  habeni l ip  \[Drt \] j \[ DP diesen Bericht \] k \[ $ \[ Vr \[ VP \[ Drt \ ]k  gelesen \]tl \ ] \ ] t ' /  233In the following section, we will show how theAIS works in the ease of infinitival constructions.3 The  Treatment  o f  In f in i t i ves3.1 D i f fe rent  In f in i t iva l  S t ructuresGerman displays two types of infinitives: infini-tives introduced by the conjunction zn and infini-tives without zu.8.1.1 In f in i t ives  w i thout  zuInfinitives without zu occur as the complementof modal verbs (e.g.
m(tssen 'must') and excep-tional case marking (EelS) verbs (e.g.
sehen 'see',lassen ' let/make').
Modals are treated on a parwith auxiliaries, i.e.
they are taken to select an in-finitival VP as complement and are not associatedwith an argument table.
In compound tenses, theinfinitival form of the modal is usually used in-stead of its past participle form; in example (4a),the infinitive wollen substitutes for the participlegewoll~.
This phenomenon is called infini~ivus proparLicipio (IPP) or Ersatzinfini~iv.
If the verb se-lecting the IPP is in its base position, the orderof the verbs differs from the usual one: auxiliariesthat would be at the right of the IPP immediatelyprecede the final predicates, as illustrated in ex-ample (4b), where h~te precedes besuchen wollen.(4)a.
Das Kind hat die alte Frau besuchen wollen.
'the child had the old woman visit want'The child wanted to visit the old woman.b.
Wenn das Kind die alte Frau h/~tte be-suchen wollen...'if the child the old woman would-have visitwant  'If the child had wanted to visit the oldwoman.
.
.From a structural point of view, this reorderingcan be analyzed as verb raising (VR): the verbs683which whould precede the uppermost final auxil-iary (without VR) are attached to the right of theauxiliary head (right-adjoined position), forminghead chains with their base positions, as repre-sented in (5).
(5) \[ vt' \[Vv \[ vv t i \ ] t j \ ]  h&tte besuehenl wollenj\]The phenomena of IPP and verb raising also oc-cur with F.CM verbs, as example (6) shows.
Unlikemodals, ZCM verbs are analyzed as taking an infini-tival CP as complement and assign (accusative ordative) ease to the subject of the infinitival clause,e.g.
the accusative case to ihr~ in (6).
(6) Nachdem ihn die Polizei hatte fliehen sehen...'after him the pofiee had escape see'After the police had seen him escape...Furthermore, the subject of the infinitivalclause (ihrt) can be attached to a position higherthan the subject of the main clause as a result ofscrambling.3.1.2 In f in i t ives  w i th  zuThe subject of infinitival clauses with zu is anempty constituent.
In control constructions, thesubject is a null pronoun PRO, which can be coref-erential with (controlled by) the subject (exam-ple (7a)) or the object (example (Tb)) of the up-per clause according to the lexicai property of themain verb.
In raising constructions, the subject ofthe infinitive is a trace coindexed with the subjectof the higher clause (example (7c)).(7)a.
Erl behauptete, \[ Cl ~ PROi sic gesehen zuhaben\].
'he claimed PRO her seen to have'he claimed to have seen her.b.
Sic hat ihmi tj erlaubt, \[ cv PRO; das Buehanzusehen\] j .
'she has allowed him, PRO the book to-look-at'she allowed him to look at the book.c.
Siei sehien \[ cP ti ihn gesehen zu haben\].
'she seemed him seen to have'She seemed to have seen him.The infinitival clause can be extraposed in con-trol constructions (Tb), but not in raising con-struction.Among subject-control verbs, there is a class ofverbs, called 'coherent verbs', which form a clauseunion with their infinitival complement (by re-structuring).
As a consequence, arguments andadjuncts attached to the upper clause can be in-terpreted with respect o the infinitival clause.
(8) Gestern hat siei der Professor versucht\[ ti zu kfissen\].
cp'yesterday has her the professor tried to kiss'Yesterday the professor tried to kiss her.In the example (8), the pronoun sic is the di-rect object of the infinitival clause, although it isattached to the main clause.b.
\[c .
\ [  \[vPwollenj \]3.2 Treatment  o f  Inf in i t iva lPar t i cu la r i t ies3.2.1 Verb  Ra is ingThe main problem with VR is that the verbsoccur on the right of the uppermost final auxiliary,while their maximal VP constituents remain on theleft and contain a head trace.
As a solution to thisproblem, we propose attaching the structure thatcontains the verb to the left and extracting allof the heads, which are adjoined to the right ofthe upper verb.
Take for instance the VP in (9a)and the complex VP in (9b); the latter is attachedas the complement of the former, i.e.
to its left.However, to account for the surface word order,the heads besuchen and wol leu must be extractedand attached to the right of hStte, as shown in(9c).(9)a.
\[ VP hKtte\]\[ besuchen\] wollen\]YP vPVV \[ VV t{\]tj\] h/itte besuchemThis solution also works for verb raising in P.CMconstructions, although the verbal head of the in-finitival clause is deeper in the structure.3.2.2 Cont ro lAn infinitive with zu projects a non-finite clause(CP) to which an empty subject is added (SpecIP).
If the infinitival clause is a complement of acontrol verb, the empty subject must be eoindexedwith the controlling argument (lexically specified).As illustrated in (10), an infinitival clause can pre-cede or follow its controller.
Therefore, the coin-dexation only applies when both arguments (con-troller and eontrollee) are available (the infinitivalCP and the indirect object in (10)).(10)a.
Die Mutter erlaubte ihrer Toehteri nicht,\[ PROI ins Theater zu gehen\].
CP'The mother allowed her daughter not tothe theatre to go'The mother did not allow her daughter togo to the theatre.b.
\[ PRO/ Ins Theater zu gehen\] ~rlaubte CPdie Mutter ihrer Tochteri nicht.
'to the theatre to go allowed the mother herdaughter not'The mother did not allow her daughter togo to the theatre.3.2.3 Argument  res t ructur ingSince restructuring allows arguments and ad-juncts to be attached to the clause containing a684coherent verb, while being interpreted with re-spect to the infinitival clause, the AIS needs tobe extended.
The first modification concerns thematching procedure: An argument hat may beinterpreted with respect o the infinitival comple-ment is left in the argument able of the coher-ent verb - -  for this reading, no matching takesplace and this argument is marked as 'uninter-preted'.
The second modification occurs after ar-gument race insertion.
At this stage, it is checkedwhether there are arguments marked as 'uninter-preted' and whether the infinitival complement isavailable.
If both of these conditions are fulfilled,the uninterpreted arguments are transferred fromthe argument able of the main verb to a provi-sional argument able, which is matched with thepredicate of the infinitival complement.Consider example (8): the pronoun sie and thenominative DP der Professor are attached to themain clause.
When the parser reads versucht, itinterprets the DP unambiguously as the subject.For the pronoun, two analyses are taken into ac-count (in parallel).
On the one hand, it can bethe direct object of the main verb (Gestern hatsic der Professor versucht 'Yesterday, the profes-sor has tried them'); this analysis fails when theinfinitival complement cannot be attached.On the other hand, the pronoun sic is regardedas the argument of a following infinitival clause,i.e.
marked as 'uninterpreted'.
When the infiniti-val complement zu k(tssen is attached, this unin-terpreted argument is treated as a new argumentof the infinitival verb and interpreted as its directobject, resulting in the structure (11).
(11) \[ ep \[ tdvr Gestern\] [ ~ hat/ \ [  1T \[ vpsie\]3" \[Dr der Professor\] k \[ ~ \[ VP \[ VP \[ ePt\]t versucht\] ti\] \[ cP \[ xp PROk \[ vP \[ DP t\]jzu kiissen\]\]\]l I t ' \ ] \ ] \ ]Example (12a), discussed by Rainbow (1994:17-23), is a sentence containing multiple coherentverbs, which illustrates the recursive applicationof argument ransfer.
The structure of the sen-tence is given in (12b).(12)a.
?...weil das Fahrrad niemand zu reparierenverspricht zu versuehen.
'because the bicycle (ace) no-one (nom) torepair promises to try'...because no one promises to try to repairthe bicycleb.
\[ CP1 well \[ DP das Fahrrad\] i niemand \[ CP3ti zu reparieren\]j tk verspricht \[ eP2 tj zuversuchen\] kThe direct object das Fahrrad of the mostdeeply embedded infinitive zu reparieren is at-tached to the main clause CP1 (long-distancescrambling).
In addition, the CP3 is scrambled outof CP2, which is extraposed after the finite mainverb.The parser proceeds as follows: The three ar-guments preceding the main verb verspricht areattached and inserted into the provisional argu-ment table.
When the parser reads verspricht,the matching procedure applies.
Das Fahrrad canbe nominative or accusative.
Therefore, threereadings are temporarily possible: subject, directobject and uninterpreted (direct object of a fol-lowing infinitival complement).
Since rtiemand isnon-ambiguously interpreted as the subject of ver-sucht, the subject reading for das Fahrrad fails.On the one hand, the CP3 zu reparieren can beinterpreted as sentential complement of the mainverb versucht, which produces an interpretation ofdas Fahrrad as the long-distance scrambled argu-ment of zu reparieren, resulting in the grammati-cal sentence (13).
(13) ...weft \[ DP das Fahrrad\]i niemand \[ eP ti zureparieren\] verspricht.because no one promises to repair the bicycleThis interpretation will fail, since the CP2 zuversuchen cannot be attached.
On the other hand,CP3 can be left uninterpreted; when the Cp2 zuversuchen is attached; and interpreted as the sen-tential complement of versprichi, the two uninter-preted arguments das Fahrrad and zu reparierenare transferred to the CP2 for interpretation.
TheCP3 zu reparieren is interpreted as sentential ob-ject of versuchen, while das Fahrrad is regarded asuninterpreted again, and thus is transferred to theCP3, where it is interpreted as the direct object ofreparieren.The same strategy of argument ransfer holdsfor ECM constructions in which a subject isscrambled to the upper clause (el.
example (6)).In almost the same way, this strategy applies tothe arguments of the infinitival clause in raisingconstructions.
While the complements of the in-finitival clause are treated in the same way as inthe restructuring case, the subject is inserted intothe argument able of the raising verb with thegrammatical function 'subject', but without the-matic role; thus, it is inserted a second time intothe argument table as 'uninterpreted'; therefore, itcan be treated like other restructuring arguments,i.e.
it is transferred to the infinitival clause andinterpreted as the logical subject of the embeddedclause.
(14) ...dab ihn die Frau zu schlagen scheint.'
that him the woman to beat seems'that the woman seems to beat him.In (14), the direct object ihn of the infinitivalverb schlagen, being in a scrambled position, isinserted into the argument able of the raisingverb and marked as 'uninterpreted'.
The subjectdie Frau is inserted into this argument able asthe surface subject of scheirtt without a thematic685role and, in addition, as an uninterpreted argu-ment of a following infinitival complement.
Whenthe infinitival clause zu schlagen is interpreted asthe sentential complement of scheint, the uninter-preted arguments ihn and die Frau are transferredto this clause in order to be interpreted with re-spect to the verb schlagen; die Frau is taken as thesubject of schlagen with the thematic role 'agent'and ihn as the direct object of the same verb withthe thematic role 'patient'.4 Conc lus ionThe task of our DIPS parser consists of not onlybuilding one or more trees for an input sentence,but also of determining the grammatical functionand the thematic interpretation farguments.
Wehave discussed the parsing strategy in detail andshown that it is adequate for the treatment notonly of finite clauses, but also of non-finite clauses.This strategy relies on the following steps: im-mediate attachment, provisional and definitive in-terpretation, the testing of constraints, creationof chains, and restructuring.
An argument in-terpretation strategy has been developed, whichanalyses arguments in a uniform fashion, regard-less of whether they precede or follow the verb.This strategy has been extended to handle long:distance scrambling, so that arguments are trans-ferred from the clause in which they are attachedto an embedded clause in which they receive aninterpretation.DIPS is a practical system under develop-ment, which uses a large-sized lexicon (over150,000 entries) and which, at present, cov-ers a large range of grammatical constructionssuch as simple and complex sentences, finiteand non-finite clauses, active and passive voice,wh-constructions, topicalization, extraposition,scrambling, long-distance dependencies, and verbraising.ReferencesAbney, S. 1987.
The English Noun Phrase in itsSentential Aspect, doctoral dissertation, MIT,Cambridge, Mass.Bader, M & I. Lasser.
1993.
"German verb-finalclauses and sentence processing: evidence forimmediate attachment", ms., in C. Clifton, L.Frazier & K. Rayner (eds.
), Perspectives in Sen-tence Processing, Lawrence Erlbaum, HillsdaleN.J.Berwick, R., S. Abney & C. Tenny (eds.).
1991.Principle-Based Parsing: Computation andPsycholinguistics, Kluwer, Dordrecht.Chomsky, N. 1981.
Lectures on Government andBinding, Foris Publications, Dordrecht.Chomsky, N. & H. Lasnik.
1992.
"Principlesand Parameters Theory", in J. Jacobs, A.van Stechow, W. Sternefeld & T.
Vennemann(eds.
), Syntax: An International Handbook ofContemporary Research, Walter de Gruyter,Berlin.Haegeman, L. 1994.
Introduction to Governmentand Binding Theory Blackwell, Oxford.Gazdar, G, E. Klein, G. Pullum & I.
Sag.
1985.Generalized Phrase Structure Grammar, Har-vard University Press, Cambridge, Mass.Grimshaw, J.
1991.
Extended Projections, ms.Brandeis University.Kaplan, R. 1980/1986 "Algorithm Schemataand Data Structures in Syntactic Processing",technical report CSL-80-12, Xerox PARC, 1980.reprinted in B. Grosz, K. Sparck Jones & B.Lynn Webber (eds.
), Readings in Natural Lan-guage Processing, Morgan Kaufmann Publish-ers, Los Altos, 1986, 35-70.Karttunen L. & M. Kay.
1985.
"Parsing in a freeword order language", in D. Dowry, L. Kart-tunen et A. Zwicky (eds.)
Natural LanguageParsing, Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge, 279-306.Kashket, M. 1991.
"Parsing Warlpiri, a free wordorder language", in Berwick et al (eds.
), 123-151.Kay, M. 1967.
"Experiments with a powerfulparser", in COLING-67.Laenzlinger, C. & E. Wehrli.
1991.
"FIPS: Unanalyseur interactif pour le fran~ais", TA infor-mations, 32.2, 35-49.Netter, K. 1986.
"Getting things out of order(An LFG-proposal for the treatment of Germanword order)", in COLING-86, 494-496.Rambow, O.
1994.
"Formal and computationalaspects of natural language syntax", IRCS Re-port 94-08, University of Pennsylvania.Uszkoreit, H. 1987.
Word Order and ConstituentStructure in German, CSLI, Lecture notes 8,Stanford University.Wehrli, E. 1988.
"Parsing with a GB grammar",in U. Reyle and C. Rohrer (eds.
), Natural Lan-guage Parsing and Linguistic Theories, Reidel,Dordrecht, 177-201.Wehrli, E. 1992.
"The IPS System", in COLING-92, 870-874.686
