Adjectival Modification in Text Meaning RepresentationVictor Raskin and Sergei NirenburgComputing Research LaboratoryNew Mexico State UniversityLas Cruces, N.M. 88003, U.S.A.raskin, sergei@crl.nmsu.eduAbstractTiffs work belongs to a family of research efforts,called nficrotheories and aimed at describing thestatic inemfing of all lexical categories in severallanguages in the fr,'unework of tile MikroKosmosproject on computational semantics.
The latteralso involves other static microtheories describ-ing world kalowledge and syntax-semantics map-ping as well as dynamic microtheories comlectedwith the actual process of text analysis.
Tiffs pa-per describes our approach to detecting ,'rod re-cording adjectival meaning, compares it with thebody of kalowledge on adjectives in literature andpresents a detailed, practically tested methodolo-gy for the acquisition of lexical entries for adjec-fives.
The work was based on the set of over6,000 English and about 1,500 Spanish adjectivesobtained from task-oriented corpora.1.
The Ontological ApproachThe work on adjectives reported in tlfis paper constitutesa descriptive "microtheory" in the MikroKosmos eman-tic analyzer (Onyshkevych and Nirenburg 1994; andBeale et ,'d.
1995), designed to serve as a component ofalolowledge-based machine translation system (Nircn-burg ct al.
1992).MikroKosmos combines findings from a variety ofquasi-antonomous microtheories of language phenom-ena, world knowledge organization and proceduralknowledge at the level of coinputer system arclfitectnrc.The basic motivation for this organization is the contin-ued inability of the fields of lingnistics and NLP to pro-duce a general-coverage, unified theory of trealment oflanguage phenomena,  failure especially pronoanced in,areas beyond computational syntax.The purpose and result of the MikroKosmos mmlysisprocess is the derivation of an interlingnal representationfor natm'al language inlmts.
The langtmge in which theserepresentations arc expressed is called file "text meaningrepresentation" (I'MR) langlmge, mid "texts" in dais lan-guage are called, simply, TMRs.
TMR is a fr,'une-basedlanguage, where frame names typically refer toinstances of ontological concepts, lot names are derivedfrom a set of ontological properties and slot fillers ,areeither elements of property value sets or pointers to con-cept instances.An ontology, a world model containing ilfformationabout ypes of things, events mid properties in the world,is a necessary prerequisite for a TMR language.
"Anontology for NLP purposes is a body of knowledgeabout the world (or a domain) that a) is a repository ofprimitive symbols used in meaning representation; b)organizes these symbols in a tangled subsumption hier-archy; ?and c) further intercom~ects these symbols usinga rich system of semmltic and discourse-pragmatic rela-tions defined among the concepts" (Mahesh and Niren-burg 1995: 1).
The function of the ontology is to supply"world knowledge to lexical, syntactic, and semanticprocesses" (ibid).The lexicon in MikroKosInos "mediates between theTMR ,and ontology" (Onyshkevyeh and Nirenburg 1994:2).
Lexicon entries for most open-class lexieal itemsrepresent word and plu:ase senses, which c~m be eitherdirectly mapped into ontological concepts or derived bylocally (that is, in the lexicon entry itself) modifyingconstraints on property wducs of concepts used to spec-ify the meaning of the given lexical item.
L6xical-senmntie information as well as clues for contextualsemantic and pragmatic processing are typically locatedin the lexicon, adjectives being no exception.
In the fol-lowing section we illustrate file structnre of those partsof the lexicon entry in MikroKosmos which bear on thedescription of adjectival memfing.2.
The Ontological Approach to theMeaning of a Typical AdjectiveA simple, l~rototypical case of adjectival modification isa scalar adjective, which modifies a noun both syntacti-cally and semantically.
Our microtheory associates itsmeaning with a region on a scale which is defined as therange of ml ontological property (cf.
Carlson and Nix~en-burg, 1990).
Tile contribution that the adjective makes tothe construction of a semantic dependency structure842(FMR) typic'ally consists of inserting its meaning (aproperty-value p,'fir) as a slot filler in a frame represent-ing the me,-ming of the noun whidl this adjective syntac-tically modifies.Thus, in big house, big will assigu a high value as thefiller of the property slot SIZE of the frame for the me,'m-ing of house.
The range of the ontological property SIZEis a numerical and continuous scale.
Each nmnerical0I ~ ~  ~.
.
nlodlUlll- SlTX~Big, will, then, be assigned a vahte of '> 0.75' value onthe SIZE scale.
These values ,arc a crucial pmt of the lex-ical mapping (LEX-MAP) from language milts to TMRunits included in the senmntics (SEM-STRUC) "zone" oftheir lexical entries.
Equally cruci,'d is the syntactic-se-m,'mtic delrendency nmppiug (linking) between the syn-tactic-sm~eture (SYN-STRUC) and s F,M-STRUC zones,which in MikroKosmos is canied out with the help ofspecial variables.
The syntactico-scmantic informationin file lexicon entry for big is as follows: t(1) (big(big-Adjt ;the tirst adjectival sense of BIG(CAT adj)(SYN-STRUC ;syqtactic characteristics:(1 ((root $varl) ;sulxzategodzation F~atern(cat n) ;1 (attributive); $varl is(mcxls ((root $wlrO))))) ;bound to the noun;the adjective modi ties;;$var0 is bound to the ad-;jective itself(2 ((root $varO) ;subcategorizatiou pattern(cat adj) ;2 (predicative)(subj ((root Svarl) ;this standard Adj;SYN-STRUC is(cat n)))))) ;omitteA from the other;examples(SEM- S'FRUC(LI%X-MAP ;the syntax-semantics map-((1 2) (size-attribute ;ping valid for both(domain (value ^ $varl) ;patterns; ' ^ ';means "the meaning of"(sem physical-object)) ;selectional;restriction(range (value (> 0.75)) ; the value is;in the top 25 percentile;of the scale(relaxabte-to (value (>0.6))))))))));re-;la?ed values are for pro-;cessiug metonymiesThe standard tn'ocedurc for representing adiecliwdmodification in TMRs is, then, to insert the scale name1 Many zones which are actually present in the en-tries for these adjectives in the MikroKosmos lexi--con art., omitted from the examples.scale can be measured in an absohtte mmmer (e.g., LIN-EAR-SIZE ill feet, yards, or millimeters, or TIME ill sec-onds).
But often natural language xpressions do notrefer to absohttc magnitudes but rather to abstract rela-tive ones, as in file case of big,.
We assume a 0 to 1nulncfical range for such abstract scales.
For abstractreferences to SIZE, lhe fillers in English e~m Ire:1and scale value for an adjective as a prolrerty-valuc pairin the frame describing the meaning of the noun theadjective meMifies.
For a noun like house, whose appro-pilate sense (2) is directly mapped into an ontologicalconcepl, the me,'ufing of big house will be represented asit TMR fragment shown in (3):(2) (house(house-N 1(CAT n(SYN-STRUC(1 ((root $vat0)(cat n))))(SEM- ffFP, UC(I,EX-MAP(2 (private-home))(3) (priwlte-home(size-attribute (value > 0.75))More complex cases of adjectival moditication arediscussed in Section 4.3.
Semantic and ComputationalTreatment of Adjectives: Old andNew TrendsThe literature on adjectives hows a scarcity of system-atic semantic analyses or lexicx~graplfic descriptions ofadjectives.
Most of file linguistic scholarslfip focuses ontile taxonomies of adjectives, on file differences betweenthe attrihutive and predicative syntactic usages as wellas other syntaclic mmsformations associated with vari-.ous adjectival usages, on the qualitative/relative distinc-tions among adjectives, which is re lated to thepredicative/attributive usages, and on the gradability/comparability of qualitative adjectives (for a detailedsurvey, see Raskin and Nirenhurg 1995: 3~20).As colnputational semantics m~wes to large-scalesyslcms serving non-toy dom~fins, the need for large let-icons with entries of all lexical categories is Ireconfingincreasingly acute, and the attention is turning moretowards such previously neglected or avoklcd categoriesas the adjectives.
Recently, there have appeared somefirst indications of lifts attetlfion.--sce, lk)r instance,843Smadja (1991), Beekwith et al (1991), Bouillon andViegas (1994), and Pustejovsky (1995).
This research isa step in the same direction.Our analysis of adjectives, with the goal of support-ing semantic analysis, shows that the issues importantfor adjective meaning representation are quite differentfrom those debated in literature on adjectives.
Thns, itbecomes clear that the scalar~non-scalar dichotomy,and not the attributive~predicative distinction whichdominates the literature, is the single most importantdistinction in semantic treatment of adjectives.
The con-tinuous numerical scales associated with the true scalarsalso render the issue of gradability and comparabilityrather trivial (see Raskin and Nirenburg 1995: 25-26).Another essential issue is the grain size of descrip-tion.
In (3) the linking attribute (SIZE) is selected ratherhigh in the hierarchy of attributes, because in the ontol-ogy SIZE-ATTRIBUTE is the parent of such properties asLENGTH-A TT R I BUT E, WlDTtI-AqTRIBUTE, A R E A-ATTRIBUTE, WEIGHT-ATTRIBUTE, etc.
If the context doesnot allow the analyzer to select one of those, a coarser-grain solution is preferred.
In other words, we representthe meaning of big house without specifying whetherbig pertains to the length, width, height or area of ahouse.
This is the result of a principled ecision, basedon the principle of practical effability 2(Raskin andNirenburg 1995: 46ff), which stipulates that, in MT, thetarget l,'mguage should be expected to have a corre-sponding adjective of a comparably arge grain-size.This issue has been often discussed on the exampleof the adjective good (cf.
Katz 1972, Pustejovsky 1995).We deliberately settle on a grain size of descriptioncoarser than the most detailed semantic analysis possi-ble (4).
(4) (good(good-Adj 1(CAT adj)(SYN- STRUC(1 ((root $varl)(cat n)(mods ((root $vatO)))))(2 ((root $var0)(eat adj)(subj ((root Svarl)(cat n))))))(SEM-STRUC(LEX-MAP(attitude(type evaluative)(attitude-value (value (>0.75))(relaxable-to (value (>0.6))))2 Derived from Tarski's and Katz's effability princi-ple (Tarski 1956: 19-21; Katz 1978: 209) and extendedto NLE(scope ^$varl)(attributed-to *speaker*))))))The finest grain-size analysis requires that a certainsalient property of the modified noun is contextuallyselected as the one on which the meaning of the nounand that of the adjective is colmected.
In our approach,the representation solution for good would be to intro-duce an evaluation attitude, with a high value andscoped over this property.
Salient properties are, how-ever, hard to identify formally, as is well known, forinstance, in the scholarslfip on metaphor, where salienceis the determining factor for the similarity dimension onwhicll metaphors (,and similes) are based, It is, therefore,wise to avoid having to search for the salient property,and the principle of practical effability offers a justifica-tion for tiffs.4.
Non-Property-Based AdjectivalModificationThis section contains abrief discussion of the senmntictreatment of adjectives which cannot be reduced to thestandard property-based type of adjectival modification.This discussion illustrates an important point in ourapproach, namely, that syntactic modification does notnecessarily imply semantic modification.4.1 AttitudesGood is, of course, a scalar.
Nevertheless, unlike in thecase of big (2), the LEX-MAP for (4) does not contain aproperty-value pair that can be attached to the frame oftile modified noun like house in tile TMR.
Instead, themeaning representation f good introduces an attitudeon the part of the speaker with regard to the modifiednoun.
In the TMR, the attitudes characterize the wholeproposition, and thus the semantic link between themodified noun and the adjective is weakened.There areother types of adjectives which challenge the conunon-sense view that the memfing of the adjective somehow"amalgamates" with the memfing of the modified noun,and most of these types are non-scalar or only margin-ally scalar.4.2 Temporal AdjectivesThe purely temporal knowledge in MikroKosmos isrecorded with the meaning of the entire proposition, andadjective ntries are not marked for it.
Some temporaladjectives, of file kind that Levi presents as derived fromadverbs rather than nouns (examples (1.9) in Levi 1978:7, repeated here as 5), are analyzed in a different manner844precisely because they do not modify semantically thenouns they modify syntactically--in other words, thetemporal meaning of the adjective characterizes theproposition.
Thus, occasional visitor (5iii) is analyzedas a rhetorical paraphrase of visit occasionally.
(5) (i) former oommate(ii) early riser(iii) occasional visitor(iv) eventual compromise4.3 Membership adjectivesTim membership class has been largely ignored in theliterature.
There has been a sporadic interest in theadjective fake (see Iw,'mska 1995--cf.
Raskin 1981)because it clearly violates the silnplistic subset-formingnotion of adjective meaning, such that red houses are asubset of all houses.
But there are many other adjectiveswhich use exactly the same type of lexical entry, andtheir similarity to each other and to fake had not beennoticed before.The most typical adjectives in the member subclassare authentic (6),fake (7), and nominal (8).
Many othersare their synonyms and near-synonyms.
The lexicalentry for Otis subclass focuses on two major elements:first, wheflmr tile modified norm is a member of a certainset--anthentic and nominal members ,are but fake mem-bers are not; and, second, whether the properties of tiffsnoun intersect significantly with those of tile set mem-bers--the properties of authentic members overlap withthe common properties of the set meinbers on mostimport,'mt properties; the properties of fake membersoverlap with those of the set members only on unimpor-tant properties, such as physical resembl,'mce--e.g.fakegun; and the properties of nominal members overlapmore significantly with those of the set members bat noton the most important ones.The first element is represented ill a set notation: setlshows that ^ $varl belongs to the set, whose typicalmember is denoted by a variable refseml, in tile ease ofauthentic and nominal but not in file case of fake.
Set2 isthe set of ,all properties of the members of setl; set3 istile set of all properties of ^ $var 1; set4 is, essentially, theintersection of set2 and set3.The second element is represented as the value of asal iency (importance) attitude to the intersectionbetween the properties of the modified noun and thoseof the set members it is purported to belong to: thesaliency v~due is 1.0 for authentic, still lfigh for nominal,and low for fake.
This representation is based on theassumption that functioning as a member, which differ-entiates between authentic and nominal, in that theformer does ,'rod tile latter does not function as a mem-ber should, is the most salient featttre, while sometlfinglike physical similarity (a fake gun only looks like agun) is the least salient one.
(7) and (8) below are shownonly partially, where they conWast with (6).
(6) (authentic(authentic-Adj 1CA'\[" adj)(SEM-STRUC(I.F2(-MAP((1 2) (setl(member refseml) ;refsem X are vari-(member ^$varl)) ;ables not used by(set2 ;the linking process(member refseml.
*)) ;"*" means all(set3 ;properties ina(member ^$varl.
*)) ;a concept(set 4(member (AND (set2.memberset3.member))))(attitude(type salience)(attitude-value 1.0)(scope set4(attributed-to *speaker *)))))))(7) (fake(fake-Adjl((1 2)(setl(member refsem 1)((member ^$varl)(polarity negative)))(attitude-value (value (< 0.25)))(8) (nominal(nominal-Adjl(attitude-value (wdue (< 0.75)))4.4 Event-Related AdjectivesTo derive file semantic part of ,'m adjectival entry from avel'b,'fl entry, first one must identify the case, or thematicrole (such as agent, theme, beueficiary, etc.)
filled by thenolal modifiexl by the adjective ill qnesfion.
We illustratethis process using file lexical entries for abusive andabuse.
The superentry for abuse includes at least threesenses, roughly, abuse-V1 "insult verbally" abuse-V2'violate a law or a privilege" and abuse-V3 'assaultphysically" ,'rod the adjective may be derived from anyone of them.
What is abusive is either file event (E)itself, as ill abusive speech or abusive behavior, or theagent (A) of the event, its in abusive man or abusiveneighbor.
AbusivelE is then tile eventive sense of theadjective formed from abuse-V1 (9), and abusive is 1Athe agentive sense of the adjective in the same sense ofabuse.
The difference between file two is, essentially, inthe position of ^ $varl in the LEX-MAI' and ill the scopeof atlribntion of the two attitudes inherited from file ver-bal entry.
Natla'aUy, file adjective ntries replace the ver-bal SYN- STRUC below wifll the standard Adj one (see845(1) above--for more data and discussion see also Raskinand Nirenburg 1996).
(9) (abuse(abuse-V 1(CAT V)(SYN- STRUC((root Svar0)(cat v)(subj ((root $varl)(eat n))(obj ((root Svar2)(cat n))))))(SEM-STRUC(LEX-MAP(communicative- event(agent (value ^ $varl)(sere human))(benef (value ^ $var2)(sem human))(theme (value refseml))(attitudel(type evaluative)(attitude-value (value (< 0.25)))(scope refsem 1)(attributed-to (OR (^$var'2 speaker))))(attitude2(type evaluative)(attitude-value (value (< 0.25)))(scope ^$var2)(attributed-to ^$varl))))))4.5 Relative (Denominal) AdjectivesRelalive adjectives ,are denourinal, object-related, intheir meaning.
The following example illustrates theconnection between ominal mid adjectival meanings.
(10) (i) (medicine(medicine-Nl)(CAT n)(SYN-STRUC(root Svar0)(cat n)))(SEM-STRUC(LEX-MAPmedicine))))(ii) (medical(medicabAdj)(CA'Fad j)(SEM-STRUC(L~X-MAP(^Swirl(pertain-to medicine))))))As file default property connecting file modifier tothe modifiexl, the MikroKosmos analyzer uses file catch-all relation PERTAIN-TO.
We have identified several mornspecific relations.The frst such relation is OWNED-BY, as in federal-Adjl in the sense of "owned by a federation."
Anotherspecific relation is HAS-AS-PART, as in malignant-Adj3in the sense of containing cancer cells.
LOCATION is alsoa conunon relation, as in international-Adj 1, "takingplace in a set of two or more comltries."
It is interestingthat another sense of international utilizes the OWNED-BY property noted above, as in "owned by a set of two ormore countries;' and yet another combines LOCATIONwith event-relatedness, a  in "manufactured in a set oftwo or more eounlries.
"The disambiguation mnong such multiple senses isnot a simple matter, and in an unusual contraposition tothe standard semantic problem of infinite polysemy, amove up, rather than down, to the undifferentiatedgeneric meaning of an adjective like international is rec-ommended in case of disambiguation problems.
In otherwords, while we continue to discover more specific rela-tions between the lexical entries of denominal adjectivesmid the nouns they are derived from, file generic PER-TAIN-TO property should not be discarded.
This move is,again, related to file issue of grain-size of semanticdescription.5.
Adjectives and Other ModifiersThe MikroKosmos analyzer treats modification byattempting to merge the meanings of the modifiers intothe meanings of the modified.
For those modifierswhose memfings are (possibly, sets of) property-valuepairs, the method is to insert file values riley carry intofile same property slot in the modified.
For inst,'mcc, filesense of smooth as in smooth silk will be a r,'mge on fileTEXTURE scale.
If TEXTURE is defined as a property ofPIIYSICAL-OBJECF or MATERIAL, and SILK is a descen-dent of either of them, then the v',duc carried in the lexi-con entry for smooth will be inserted by the analyzer asthe TEXTURE property value for file instance of silk intim TMR.Our apwoach covers ,all property modification i  lan-guage, not only adjective-noun combinations.
Thus, itwould be applicable to noun-noun combinations,adverb-verb combinations and other mollification situa-tions, as illustrated in (11):(11) Modified ModifiersVerb Adverb, Noun, Prepositional PhraseNoun Adjective, Prepositional Phra~Adjective Adverb, Prepositional PhraseAdverb AdverbThe most challenging cases in all kinds of modifica-tion would be those where syntactic dependency doesnot i~redeternfine s mantic dependency.
In lhis pawr wehave illustrated a method, based on ontology and textmemfing representation, of lreating such discretxmciesin dependency for adjectiwd modification.
This method886has been tested in the MikroKosmos emantic analyzerbased on the iexical entries for 6,000 Spanish mid 1,500English adjectives.The method is based on the discovery of a smallnumber of basic types of adjectival lexical entries and itsnse, with minor modifications, with a l~wge number ofspecific lexical entries, thus nmking tile acquisition ofadjectives cognitively easier, faster, and cheaper.
Eachtype of lexical entry (lctennines a type of mtxlilicationrelationship between the adjective ~md the kind of nounsit modifies, most significantly, whether this relationslfipis property-based or not-property-based.
We have alsodiscovered that this approach to adjectival me,ruing islanguage-independent: what varies from language tolanguage is the adjectival superentries, i.e., the variouscombinations of different meanings of the same adjec-tive, as well as adjectival availability for a certain metal-ing.
i.e., whether a specific meaning c,'m Ire expressedadjectivally in a language.
Most adjectiwd meanings ofone language are, however, expressed adjectiwdly aswell in another language, and the lexical entry for thisme,ruing is then unchanged.In m,'my languages, adjectives and adverbs are thesanle.
Is our approach to adjectival moditication ofholms applicable to adverhi~d mcxlilication of ved~s?
Ini-tial research shows that the property-/non-l~roperty-based dichotomy holds there as well.
We intend to testthe hypothesis flint this method extrapolates to ~dl theabove types of modification as well.AcknowledgmentsThe research reported in this paper was suplxJrtcd byContract MDA904-92-C-5189 with the U.S. Depart-ment of Defense.
Victor Raskin is gratefid to PurdueUniversity for pemfitting him to consult CRL/NMSU onthe MikroKosmos project.
Both authors feel indebted tothe other members of the MikroKosmos team.ReferencesBeale, Stcphcn, Sergei Nircnburg, and Kavi Mahesh1995.
Scmantie Analysis in the MikrokosmosMaehinc Translation Project.
In Proceedingsof the Second Symposium on Natural Lan-guage Processing (SNLP-95),August 2-4.Bangkok, Thailand.Beckwith, Richard, Christimle Fellbaunl, Derek Gross,and George A. Miller 1991.
WordNet: A lexicaldatabase organized on psyeholinguistic princi-ples.
In: Uri Zenfik (ed.
), Lexical Acquisition:Exploiting On-line Resources to Build aLexicon.
Ilillsdale, N.J.: Erlbanm, pp.
211-232.Bouillon, Pierrette, and Evelyne Viegas 1994.
A scnfi-polymorphic approach to the interpretation fadjectival constructions: A cross-linguistic per-SlUCctive.
In: Proceedings of the Sixth EU-RALEX Intei~aational Congress, Amsterd,qan:Free University of Amsterdmn, pp.
36-44.Cm'lson, Lynn, and Sergci Nircnburg IcY)0.
World Mod-eling for NLE Technical Report CMU-CMT90-121, Center for Machine Trailslafion, C,'u'n-egie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA.lwm~ska, l ncja 1995.
Semantics, pragmaties, and con-text of intensional negative adjectives: Not atoy problem, l'aper presented at fl~c Context inNatural I,anguage Processing.
IJCAI '95Workshop, Montre~d, August 1995.KaY, Jerrold J.
1972.
Semantic flleory and the memfingof good.
Journal of Philosophy 61, pp.
736-760.Katz, Jen'old J.
1978.
Effability and translation.
In: I:.Gucnflmcr and M. Guenthner-Reuttcr (eds.
),Meaning and Translation: Philosophical andLinguistic Approaches.
London: Duckworth,pp.
191-234.I,evi, Judith N. 1978.
The Syntax and Semantics ofComplex Nominals.
New York: AcademicPress.Mahesh, Kavi, and Sergci Nircnbmg 1995.
A situatedontology for practical NLP.
A paper prcscntc~lat the IJCAI ' 95 Workshop on Basic Ontologi-cal Issues in Knowledge Sharing.
Montreal,August 19-21.Nircnburg, Scrgci, Jaime Carboncll, Masmu qbmita, andKcimeth Goodnmn 1992.
Machine Transla-t ion: A Knowledge-Based Approach.
SanMateo, CA: Morgau Kanfmmm.Onyshkevych, Boyml, and Sergei Nircnlxlrg 1994.
TheLexicon in the Scheme of KBMT "llfings.Memoranda in Computer and Cognitive Sci-euce MCCS-94-277.
I,as Cruces, N.M.: NewMexico State University.lhistejovsky, James 1995.
The Generative Lexicon.Cmnbridge, MA: MIT Press.Raskin, Victor 1981. tIow to handle fake guns.
Meetingllandbook, Annual Meeting of the IingnisticsSociety of America, New York.Raskin, Victor, and Sergei Nirenburg 1995.
Lexical Se-mantics of Adjectives: A Microtheory of Ad-jectiwd Me,'ming.
Memoranda in Computer andCognitive Science MCCS-95-288.
Las Cruces,N.M.
: New Mexico State University.Raskin, Victor, and Sergei Nirenburg 1~)6.
I.exicad rulesfor deverbal adjectives.
Paper presented at theACL ' 96 Workshop on the Breadth and Depfllof Semanlic Lexicons.
S~mta Cruz, CA.Smadja, Frank 1991.
Macrocoding the lexicon with co-occurrence knowledge.
In: Uri Zernik (ed.
),Lexical Acquisition: Exploiting On-line Re-sources to Build a Lexicon.
ltillsdale, N.J.:F, rlbaum, pp.
165~189.847
