Yes!
NLP-based FL-ITS will be ImportantHenry HamburgerDepartment of Computer ScienceGeorge Mason UniversityFairfax VA 22030 USAhenryh@cs.gmu.eduIn this note, a straw man is destroyed, optimism isexpressed, an existing system is sketched, and someissues are laid out.A Direct Approach.It is useful to consider a straightforward argumentfor according NLP a central role in CALL.
I willcall it SCW, since it is simple, clear and wrong.
Itruns like this: intelligent tutoring systems (ITS)with simulated problem environments arepotentially excellent for learning; a key module ofan ITS is a computational model of expertise in thedomain; NLP systems are such models in thedomain of hmnan languages; so let's use NLPknowledge bases as the expert module of a foreignlanguage ITS.see Chanier et al (1992).
For a rule to be learned oreven to be useful in explanation, it should becongruent with learners' cognition and expressed ina way that is meaningful to them.
Anyone familiarwith NI,P knowledge bases could hardly thinkseriously about promoting their direct use inexplanations to learners.Stay the Course.The lailure of SCW certainly does not mean weshould all go home.
On the contrary, I stronglybelieve that valuable ITSs will be built and thatthey will use NLP, or I would not spend so much ofmy time on one.
It does, however, suggest hat itwill take significant work, in design as well asimplementation, to create an NLP-driven ITS forlanguage that engages students and helps ttlemlearn efficiently.But Language is Different.But language use is different fl'om most ITSdomains, in a way that invalidates SCW.
In atypical domain a student shows progress by successin explicit stepwise reasoning to a solution.Successful language use, in contrast both to otherITS domains and to the ability to state grammaticalrules, need not demand articulating the stepwisereasoning about sentence construction, but it doesrequire the capacity to arrive quickly at a result(either a sentence that expresses one's currentthought or the meaning of someone else'ssentence), and moreover to do so while thinkingabout something else, namely the substance of theconversation.
Such a capacity may well imply agrammar in the brain but not awareness andarticulation of it.Expertise and ITS.Even for explicit teaching of grammatical, lexicalor other knowledge of a particular language, SCWis flawed.
Experience teaches that a performance-oriented representation f domain knowledge maybe tmsuitable tbr direct use in an ITS; see Ciancey(1987) and in the world of language specifically,Let Many Flowers Bloom.Proclaiming a future for NLP in ITS is not to denybenefits from other kinds of devices or thecontinuing importance of hmnan teachers, tutorsand other conversational partners.
Indeed N1,Pitself may have variegated ways of contributing tothe mix of learning resources, by systems that usedifferent modules of NLP and that aim to fostervarious kinds of language knowledge in thestudent.
Automated aid has been undertaken lotparts of languages all the way from spelling,pronunciation and morphology, through syntax andsemantics, to discourse and cultural knowledge.
Forthe most part, the NLP-based work has been at thelow end, rarely going above syntax.Two-Medium Conversation.A sketch of our own (Hamburger, 1995) two-medium conversational system will give a concretesense of one approach to NLP-intensive CALL.FLUENT-2 is a language learning and tutoringsystem, helping students learn and letting teachersinfluence what is learned.
It has features of bothintelligent tutoring systems and microworldlearning environments.
Using a pedagogical1007strategy of situational immersion, the systemengages the student in meaningful multi-mediacommunicative acts in graphically depicted realworld situations.The student interacts with the system by direct useof the target language.
The system uses Felshin's(1993) multilingual NLP system, which can exposestudents to a wide variety of linguistic forms.
Theintent is that new words, phrases and grammaticalusage will become comprehensible throughmeaningful exposure and use.
The system makesthis possible by tightly coupling the language tographical acts and system generated animationswithin a realistic ongoing situation.
Actionsavailable to both the student and the system includeselecting and moving objects and making humanfigures walk, turn, point, grasp and release objects,and so on.The teacher interacts with the system throughgraphical (GUI) tools that facilitate the designing ofexercises and the construction of appropriatemicroworlds.
These tools let a teacher constructexercises that invoke specific linguistic concepts inthe target language without having to deal directlywith the NLP system.
One parameter of an exercisecan be a plan for a goal in a situation, a capacitythat makes exercises portable across microworlds.Real language teachers have given design adviceand now use the system.Three Issues.Fidelity and interactiveness are key issues tbr ITS.Extensibility has been a key issue in NLP.
All threewill be important for NLP-based CALL.
I'llsubdivide each, mention some interplay amongthem and comment on Fluent-2 in light of them.Fidelity is the accuracy of a presentation.
Forexample the visual fidelity of a photo or videoexceeds that of simple graphics or animation.
Atechnical drawing may have good conceptualfidelity if it connects related concepts.
Two aspectsof fidelity that may rightly concern languageeducators are cultural authenticity and thesituational continuity of a conversation.Interactiveness of an ITS can include its immediateresponsiveness by faithfully updating the visiblesituation after a student makes some kind of moveas well as longer-range responsiveness to anindividual student, based on a model that it buildsof that student's knowledge.
In addition, the studentmay be offered control over parameters of thesystems behavior, including subject matter,difficulty and style.
We have used this lastapproach, in response to arguments made by Self(1988).A system can be designed to be extendable within alanguage.
It takes extra effort to make it possiblefor a teacher to do so, as opposed to a programmer.Portability across languages is familiar to NLPresearchers, and, as noted above, portability canalso refer to moving exercise types into newsituations.
Schoelles and Hamburger (1996) showhow this capacity lets one present a languageconcept in one situation and test it in another.There are tradeoffs here.
As an example, Murray's(1995) video system achieves exceptionally finecultural fidelity, but for that reason little of it islanguage portable.
Interactiveness also is difficultto achieve with video, since there is a finite amountof video material produced in advance.
Ourgenerative, recombinative animation approach doesnot encounter this constraint.In the End.It will not be easy, but I hope and believe thatbefore too long there will be a variety of exciting,effective NLP-based CALL systems.ReferencesChanier, T., Pengelly, M., Twidale, M. and Self, J.
(1992) Conceptual modelling in error analysis incomputer-assisted language learning systems.
InSwartz, M.L.
and Yazdani, M.
(Eds.)
IntelligentTutoring Systems for Foreign Language Learning.Berlin: Springer-VerlagClancey, W. (1987) Knowledge-Based Tutoring:The GUIDON Program.
Cambridge, MA, USA:MIT Press.Felshin, S. (1993) A Guide to the Athena LanguageLearning Project Natural Language ProcessingSystems.
MIT.Hamburger, H. (1995) Tutorial tools for languagelearning by two-medium dialogue.
In Holland,V.M., Kaplan, J.D.
and Sams, M.R.
(Eds.
)Intelligent Language Tutors.
Mahwah, NJ, USA:Erlbaum.Murray, J.
(1995) Lessons learned from the AthenaLanguage Learning Project.
In Holland, V.M.,Kaplan, J.D.
and Sams, M.R.
(Eds.)
IntelligentLanguage Tutors, Mahwah, NJ, USA: Erlbaum.1008Schoelles, M. and Hamburger, H. (1996) Teacher-usable xercise design tools.
Montreal: Proceedingsof ITS-96.Self, J.A.
(1988) Bypassing the intractable problemof student modelling.
Montreal: ITS-88.1009
