The Power  of  Words  in Message  P lann ingMichae l  ZockLanguage & CognitionLIMSI - C.N.R.S., B.P.
13391403 Orsay, Francezock@|imsi.frAbstract: Before engaging in a conversa-tion, a message must be planned.
While thereare many ways to perform this task, I believethat people do this in the following way, inparticular if the message is going to be long:first an outline is planned (global, or skeletonplanning), which is then filled in with details(local planning, elaboration).
Planning pro-ceeds thus from general to specific (breadthfirst), that is, sentences are planned incremen-tally by gradual refinement of some abstractthought rather than in one go (one-shot pro-cess) where every element is planned own toits last details.While global planning is largely lan-guage independent, local planning can be lan-guage dependent: the dictionary acts a media-tor, interfacing language and thought.
Giventhe fact that words can be used to specify nonlinguistic thought, there is feedback from thelexical to the conceptual component.
Thisbeing so, dictionaries may play a fundamentalrole in guiding and potentially modifying nonlinguistic thought.
If my view is correct, thiscould have implications on the design of ge-neration architectures: instead of separatingmessage planning and realization, viewing theprocess as being strictly sequential, we couldallow for feedback loops (interleaved process),whereby the linguistic component could feedback to the conceptual component.1 Introduct ionA major step in natural language-generation (NLG)consists in choosing content words for expressing theplanned message.
While this sounds self evident, itcontains at least two assumptions that are easily over-looked: (a) thought precedes language; (b) thought isentirely encoded or specified before lexicalizationtakes place.
My contribution i this paper consists inproviding evidence for the following three claims: (a)thought is underspecified at the onset of lexicaliza-tion; (b) language can feed back on thought, i.e.words can specify the conceptual component; (c) ourmental dictionaries are the interface between languageand thought.NLG has often been viewed as a two step process.During the first (deep generation) conceptual choicesare made (content determination, discourse planning),during the second (surface generation) linguistic ope-rations are performed (word choice, determination ofsyntactic structure).
While this kind of decompositionhas proven useful for practical purposes, ---dividingthe process into separate components increased thecontrol, - -  it has also encouraged researchers to buildinto their systems wrong assumptions: content is ge-nerally determined in one go (one-shot process), andinformation flow is one-directional, going downwardsfrom the conceptual level to the linguistic level.
As Iwill show by taking an example from the lexicon,both these conclusions are ill-lbunded, as they sug-gest that there is no feedback between the differentcomponents.2 A naive view of generationNLG can be viewed as the process of finding a lin-guistic form for a given conceptual fragment.Obviously, there are certain dangers with this view.First of all, the order of thought, i.e.
the order inwhich conceptual chunks become available, and theutterance order, i.e.
the order in which words have tobe uttered in a given language is not necessarily thesame.
Second, words cannot be directly mapped ontheir conceptual coun-terpart, that is, there is no one-to-one correspondance b tween concepts and words: agiven word may ex-press more than a single concept:leave vs. go away; unhappy vs. not happy (for moredetails ee Nogier & Zock, 1992).
Third, there is nofeedback from the linguistic to the conceptualcomponent.
In the remainder of this paper I shallconcentrate precisely on this latter problem byshowing the interaction between these twocomponents.3 How is content planned?Suppose we wanted to produce the following sentence:<,~clen the old man saw the little boydrowning in the river, he went to his canoein order to rescue him.>>.
Figure 1 here belowcan be considered as the underlying planning tree.
Buthow is such a tree built?succEVENT-I EVENT-I..... ,1 ..... IGOA L DI RECTF.D ACTIONGOAl,/ \  I t Imall AGE.
DROWN GO TO R}~CUEI / \  / \  / \old PERSON-I PLACE PERSglN-I MEANS OF |'ERSON-I pERoSON-I/ \  I I ........./\ I Ibny SIZE river man can~ BELONG TO man L'~)Y.,,L.
ImallFigure 1990There are several good reasons, --psychologicaland linguistic,-- to believe that this sentence has notbeen planned from left to right and in one go.p~ychological re!sons: The sentence is simply toolong for a speaker to hold in short-term-memory allthe information to be conveyed.
It is highly unlikelythat the speaker has all this information available atthe onset of verbalization.
The need of planning, thatis, the need to look ahead and to plan in generalterms, increases with sentence length and with thentnnber and type of embeddings (for example, centereml~xtded sentences).
There is also good evidence inthe speech error literature for the chtim that peopleplan in abstract erms.
False starts or repairs, like<< I 've turned on the stove switch, I mean the heaterswitch >> suggest hat the temperature increasing de-vice has been present in the speakers mind, yet at anabstract level (see Levelt, 1989; Fromkin 1993).Linguistic reasons: as mentionned already, tile otr/erof words does not necessarily parallel the order ofthought.
For example, the generation of the first wordof the sentence here above, --ti le temporal adverbial"when",--  requires knowledge of the fact that there isanother event taking place.
Yet, this informationappears fairly late in the sentence.Figures 2 and 3 here below illustrate a reasonableway to plan such a message.
Starting with somethingfairly general ike, --there are two temporally relatedevents: EVENT-I preceding EVENT-2 (st@p-i),-- thespeaker expands gradually each element (steps 2-8).1Step 1: The are two temporally related eventsEVENT-1 PRECEDING EVENT-2Step 2: When PERSON-I saw EVENT-3Figure 2t 1 will use the following conventions in the figures: textwith gray background in white box: currently expandedelement; viileo inverted question mark: not yet fullyspecified element; gray box: processed elements;pointer: element o be elaborated.My comments under the figures should be read in thefollowing way: underlined element: currently obtainedresult; capital letters: variable, hence not yet fullyspecified element.Step-2: Since there are two events, the speaker liftsto choose.
Let's assume he wants to begin withEVENT-I.
This allows the generation of the firstelement "wheW', and the fact that there is a PERSONwho saw some EVENT.
Both person and event are stillunspecified elements, hence written in capital letters.Having two unspecified elements (PERSON, EVENT-3)we have to choose.S tep-3 :  Suppose we decided to elaborate PERSON.This could yield something like man + ATTRIBUTE,meaning, that the person who sees the event is a man(a terminal element) whom we want to describe furtherby providing a elmmcterizing attribute.
Please uote,that I consider both man and the variable ATTRIBUTEas sister nodes, hence, in principle there could be alinearization problem.
Whether predicates (in our case,the attribute) can, or are determined before the argu-ment they qualify (here man) remains an empiricalquestion.
The situation seems clearer during lexieali-zation where a head noun may constrain an adjective,hence the noun has to be generated first (colloeationalconstraint).S tep-4  :During this step we decide on the attribute,the result might be "old".
One could object that anintermediate step is necessary in order to decide on thekind of attribute (size, age, etc,).
This is correct, butlot reasons of economy (size of the figures), we'veskipped this step.S tep-S :  During this step we elaborate the nodeEVENT-3 which yields : someone drowns somewhere,where the person and the place are still unspecified.Again we have to choose which element o elaborate.Suppose we started with PERSON-2.Step-6 :  This could yield boy + ATTRIBUTE.
Boybeing a terminal element it needs no fnrther refi-nement, but we do still need to specify its attribute.S tep-7  : I f  we were to characterize the boy in termsof size, we might get "small".Step-E: The instanciation of the variable (PLACE)might yield river.Having completed the description of EVENT-1 we stillhave to specify EVEN'r-2.
We will leave this as nexercice lbr the motivated reader (ben courage!
)4 Possible implicationsLet us see some of the advantages of our approach.Top-down, left-to-right expansion gives the speaker agood control over the whole process, minimizing tiledanger of forgetting some information because ofmemory overload.
Of course, the tree can be built indifferent ways, top-down, bottom-up, or bycombining both methods.
2For related appl'oaches on2 I believe, that the way how the tree is built depends onwhether tile speaker has at the onset of messageplanning a clear picture of the object or scene todescribe, or whether he has to build it from scratch.
Inthe first case he could build the tree from top to bottom.991Step 3: When the man + ATTRIBUTE saw...Step 4: When the old man saw...Step 5: When the old man sawPERSON-2 drowning in PLACE-X, EVENT-2Step 6: When the old man saw the ~ + ATTRIBUTEdrowning in PLACE-X, EVENT-2Step 7: When the old man saw the l i t t le  boydrowning in PLACE-X, EVENT-2chosen node for elaborationStep 8: When the old man saw the little boydrowning in the river, EVENT-21not yet specified node I ~ currently elaborated node mIFigure 3992bidirectional tree growth, see the work on segmentgrammar (de Smedt & Kempen1991), or 7?eeAdjoining Grammar (Joshi 1987).If my line of reasoning concerning messageplanning is correct, - -namely that planning is basi-('ally a two-step process where l'irst a skeleton isplanned (general plan), and then its constituents ( pe-cific plan),-- then this should have consequences onthe overall architecture o1' generators, as well as onthe infornmtion flow (control, process).
We shall seethis in the next section on lexical choice.
The basicquestion that arises in this context is the following:when do we process what'?
This suggests thecorrolary questions: Is all information pertaining to agiven module processed in one go (one shot), or amobjects gradually refined (several passes)?For example,l.
is everything related to meaning processed entire-ly and once and for all --- hence messages canneither be changed not" be refined --- or2.
are the objects to be talked about only specified tothe degree to which they need to be at this stage ofthe process (limited commitment planning)?Actually, it is quite easy to find arguments infavor of this second hypothesis.
Why should we camat an early stage of the process about details, if wearen't sure at that point, whether the global messagewill meet the goal defined?
Put differently, why camat that stage about the specificity of a word or a relY-rent (how great a detail to give in order to ch~u'ac-lcrizc an object) if we areffl even sum whether theplanned message contains all and only the inlor-nmtion we wish to convey?
In a similar vein, whybother about style, spelling and punctuation, and soforth, if syntactic structure is likely to he changtxl?The point 1 am trying to make is that, people pro-bably start by planning things globally, filling thisplan with details at a later stage (local planning).We cycle through the same kind of process but atdifferent levels of detail.
Having built a global planwe Ilesh it out with details as soon as this becomesnecessary.
The speech error literature abounds withexamples supporting this point of view.
Blends,substitutions, or speech repairs like 'tie conqueredBabylon, the great Alexander', seem all to suggest,that the speaker plans his message in abstract erms.For details see (l,evelt 1989; Fromkin, 1993).Genuine examples, as the lbllowing from Maclayand Osgood (1959:25) clearly show that the speakerhas not necessarily everything planned at the onsetof articulation: kruger stretches of spontancous dis-course are full of pauses, stutters and mistakes:<< As far as l know, no one yet has done the / in away obvious now and interesting problem ofIpausel doing a/  in a sense a structural frequencystudy of the alternative \[pause\] syntactical \[uhl /in a given language, say, like English, thealternative \[uhl possible structures, and how /what their hierarchical Ipausel probability ofoccurrence structure is.
>>5 Lexical choice as paltem matchingHaving planned the underlying content, let's see howthe dictkmary may feed back on the conceptual com-ponent.
The process of finding words for conceptualstructures can be viewed as lexically nrediated, henceindirect structure mapping: conceptual li'agments ~uemapped onto words via the lexicon (see figure 4), thelatter serving as an interface between thought (con-cepts) and language (words).This view raises a number of interesting problems:(a) What shall we do if not all of the plannedmessage can be expressed by the words available at agiven moment?
Should we backtrack (try to lindanother word); change the underlying meaning (replanFigure 4: The lexicon (I,L) as mediator between theconceptual level (CL) and word level (WIO.the content by adding or deleting some inlbrnmtion);or carry over to the next cycle (word or sentence) thespecific parl that couldn'l be expressed (cany-overphenomenon) '?
For an atl:cmpt o solve this problem,see Nicolov et al (1996).
(b) On what basis do wechoose among a set of potential candklates?
(c) Whatinformation is available at the onset o1' lexicalization(all or only part), i.e.
at what moment is the word'sunderlying meaning fully specified?In order to answer these questions, let me take anexample.
Suppose we warned to express the fact thata person moves on a given surlhce in a givendirection (see GI in Figure 5 next page, or, the leftbranch of second EVENT of our example in section 3on message phmning: ...he went to his canoe...).
3Obviously, there is more than one way.
According tothe input specifications we could consider either 'tomove, to swim, to walk', or 'to run'.
All these wordsexpress the notion of movement.
Yet, not all of themfit equally well the initial message, and lor quitedifferent reasons.
While the second cmldidate ('1oswim') is simply in contradiction with tmrt of thcinitial specification (location: ground), the last one('to run') expresses more than the initial messagephnmcd.
Now, what cot, kl motivate the choicebetween the two remaining candidates, 'to move' ~u~l'to walk"?
Both of them m'e subgraphs of theutterance graph, that is, both of them express part ofthe message planned.
Yet 'to walk' expresses more of:~ Figure 5 is to be read counterclockwise.993GI  : In i t ia l  Ut terance graphilh.
G2 : New Utterance graphi::~:ii~:ii ~:i ~?
:i~i~i~i:~~:'i ~ii i~iiii i!i~i~i~i!i{ii!~i~/~i` .i~ii~/ii` ~i~.~i!~ii!i~i~i~!~i{i~i ::~, iii~i~i ~:~: : :i :ii: i: i:~iii~iiii~!ii ;i~:ii:~: i~i:ii::~i:VERB : " to  move" ?
VERII : "to move" Correlation factor : 2?
VERB : " to  sw im"I P,~.~?,'.'~.
?l--<~--I .o~,~.~.:.
~?
lr-finn ~?
VERB : " to  sw im"  Cor re la t ion  fac tor  : 2VERB : "to walk" ?
VERB : "to walk" Correlation factor : 4?
VERB : " to  run"  ?
VERB : " ta  run"  Cor re la t ion  fac tor  : 4message (concept) p lannedbefore the lexical izat ion phasenot matched,  henceunexpressed conceptFigure 5matched, henceexpressed conceptconcept added afterthe lexical izat ion phase994the message graph, hence, all things being equal, itwill be preferred.Actually, the choice of a specific word will dependto a large extend on pragmatic factors like speaker'sgoals, time and space constraints, hearer's expertise,and so forth.
Of course, all these factors can beinterrelated.
If conciseness i what we are looking for,then the most specific word ('to walk') is to bepreterred to the more general term ('to move').
Thereason is simply economy: more of the message isexpressed by using the given resources, hence timeand space is gained.
There is a limitation though.
Thewords chosen have to match the user's expertise.
Acooperative speaker uses dense words 4 or technicalterms ('computer', 'space shuttle') only for peoplewhose lexical competency allows them to understandtheir meaning, otherwise he will decompose thesewords.Now let me get back to the last candidate ('torun'), as it raises an interesting problem.
The word'sunderlying meaning is not in contradiction with theinitial message.
Yet it does not express exactly whatwas planned.
Actually, it expresses omething more:the notion of speed.
5 This being so, the questionarises, whether 'to run' can be considered as a validcandidate.
I believe that it does, provided that theadditional information (speed) is consistent withsome belief about the state of the world, and that thespeaker considers it worthwhile mentioning, if that isso, then we have here evidence for feedback of thelexical component to the conceptual component.
Thedescribed situation may seem somehow artificial, yet,1 believe it occurs quite often in spontaneousdiscourse, even if we are not aware of it.
When weget to the point of choosing a word, it is the powerof the language that drives us to say something thatwas not initially planned.
Of course, we are ti'ee notto mention the additional piece of information, butthis is not really the point.
The point is, that not allinformation ultimately expressed by a word has beenavailable in the speaker's mind at the onset oflexicalization.6 DiscussionThe approach taken here raises an interestingproblem.
When choosing words we express not onlya given meaning, but we may end up adding to theconceptual structure (message) meanings thin initiallywe had not planned.
While there are good reasons tobelieve that at an early stage of processing thetmderlying meaning of words is underspecified ',rod4 Dense words are generally abstract words like inflation-rate, superstition, belief.
They carry a lot of informa-tion.Please note that this example serves only for illustra-tive purposes.
Actually, 'to run' and 'to move fast onthe ground" do not refer exactly to the same kind oflocomotion.
For more details, see Nogier & Zock(1992).abstract, hence language independent, the questionarises whether the information added during theexpansion phase is not language specific to a largeextent.
Much of the information to be ~:ted isprecisely intbrmation required by the lexicon.
Whileit is possible that for syntactic and other reasons wecannot use or retrieve the word planned, it is lessobvious why one would want to add at this stageinformation for which we don't have words (see alsoMeteer, 1990).
Obviously, subscribing to ourreasoning is taking a stance with regard to thelanguage-thought debate (Whorl, 1956), namely,language may drive thought.
Surprisingly, this is allthe more likely as we get close to the surface, that is,relatively late in the process.7 ConclusionIn this paper I have tried to give evidence for threeclaims, namely that thought is not completelyspecified at the onset of lexicalization; that there isfeedback from the lexical to the conceptualcomponent; and that the dictionary plays aflmdamental role in guiding and potentially modifyingnon-linguistic thought.
Hence, it is during thelexicalization phase that language can play thisimportant role over thought.
This is what I meant tosay, when I wrote in my title: the power of words inmessage planning.REFERENCESK.
de Smedt & G. Kcmpen: Segment grammar: a l'orma-lism for Incremental Sentence Generation, In, Paris,C.
& W. Swartout & W. Mann (Eds.).
Natural Lan-guage Generation in Artificial Intelligence and Com-putational Linguistics, K\[uwer Academic Publishers,Boston, 1991V.
Fromkin: Speech Production.
In J. Berko, Gleason &N. Bernstein Ratner (eds.)
Psycholinguistics.
FortWorth, TX: Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovich.
1993A.
Joshi: Tree Adjoining Grammars and their Relevanceto Generation, in: Kempen (Ed.).
Natural LanguageGeneration: New Results in Artificial Intelligence,Psychology and Linguistics, Martinus Nijhoff Pbs,Dordrecht, 1987W.
Levelt: Speaking : From Intention to Articulation.Cambridge.
Mass.
: MIT Press; 1989M.
Meteer: The 'Generation Gap': the problem of expres-sibility in text planning., BBN Rep. n ?
7347, 1990.J.F.
Nogier J.F.
& M. Zock: Lexical choice by patternmatching.
In Knowledge Based Systems, 5 (3), 1992.N.Nicolov, C.Mellish and G.Ritchie, ApproximateGeneration from Non-Hierarchical Representations,8th International Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration, Herstmonceux Castle, 13-15 June 1996.B.Whorf: Language, thought, and reality.
Cambridge.Mass., MIT Press, 1956995
