Computational Linguistics and its Use in Real World:the Case of Computer Assisted-Language LearningMichael ZOCKLangage & CognitionL IMSI -CNRS,  B. P. 13391403 ORSAY - FRANCEe-mail :zock@limsi.frSurprising as it may be, one of the biggest marketsfor products of computional linguistics (CL) has beenlargely overlooked: the classroom.
While machinetranslation has attracted a considerable amount ofresearch, hence resources, CALL, ~ a domain with acomparable potential, has hardly ever received theattention it deserves.
Actually there seems to be acommunication problem and a mutual ack of interestconcerning the work done in the neighbouringdisciplines.Computational linguists don't show much interestfor CALL, and CALL experts ignore the work doneby computational linguists.
Strangely enough, evenwithin the ITS, CAI, CBI OR ICAI communities,little, if any reference is made to work done in CALL(4, 10, 13, 15, 18, 24, 25, 26, 28, 30, 33, 35).
Thisbeing so, it is hardly surprising to see that the domainis never mentioned in textbook on Artificial Intelli-gence or Psycholinguistics.
Yet there are a number ofpublications in psychology that deal with relatedissues such as learning theory (12), languagelearning (5, 6, 11, 14, 20), language teaching (6, 16,19, 27), educational technology, i.e.
programmedinstruction (9, 12, 31), theory of writing (3),algorithmization of the learning process (17),learning strategies, i.e.
learning how to learn (23),etc.It is also worth mentionning that no cross fertili-zation has taken place between the CALL communityand people working in the Machine Learningparadigm (7, 21).
2 While there are fundamentaldifferences in terms of goals and methods, there arealso some important overlaps.
Books on moresophisticated CALL systems are still scarce (13, 32),so is the work that shows how current NLPtechnology could be used in the classroom (1, 22, 34)Yet CALL is a field with considerable potential.
Itis both a challenge and a chance to bring NLP' Unlike 17S (Intelligent Teaching Systems), CAI (Com-puter Assisted Instruction), CBI (Computer Based Instruc-tion) and ICAI (Intelligent Computer Aided Instruction),which use language \['or communicating domain specificknowledge, CALL has langage learning as its primary goal.Obviously, NLP-technology may be relevant for all thesesystems, but in different ways.For a slightly outdated bibliography on CALL, see (2).technology from the research laboratories to the realworld.
While computational linguists will certainlyhave to play an important role in providing linguisticresources (grammars, lexicon) and processing tools,it is not clear yet how to decide on the adequacy ofthe tools (browser, editors).
Also, there are goodchances that within this context new problems arise,while old solution turn out not to be good at all, inwhich case the following two questions arise: what isthe nature of these new problems?, and in what termsdo these new problems have to be rethought?
Otherrelated issues of interest are the following:?
what can current NLP technology contribute tocomputer-assisted language learning?how can this technology meet the demands ofpedagogical theory for communicative languageteaching in a natural environment?what can NLP-based systems teach us aboutlanguage acquisition, linguistic theory andNATURAL language processing in general?what effect can a domain like CALL, or theinvolved disciplines have on the development ofNLP technology??
what lessons have been, or can be learned bylooking at the available CALL systems?In order to get a clearer picture of these problems,and in order to draw the community's attention to thefact that there is a REAL need and potential forintegrating NLP technologies in CALL systems, wepropose a panel discussion between specialists in theconcerned disciplines (linguistics, artificialintelligence, psychology, language teaching).
Theexpected results of such a discussion are not only anincrease of resources (manpower) in the CALLdomain, but also an increase of awareness, that is, asharpening of the researchers' understanding of whatthe problems are that people encounter whenprocessing language.
All too often we look atlanguage only from the point of view of the machine,i.e.
how can languages be processed by computers.
Indoing so we tend to forget the obvious : naturallanguages are used by people.1002In building CALl,  systems we will realize thatthere are ninny problems in the area of naturallanguage processing that have been eitheroverlooked, or been posed in inadequate terms.
Yet,if we really want to get a real tmderstanding of thefimctioning of natural languages, - -how they areused, how they are learned?--  we have to look at theconstraints of the system for which they have beendesigned: man.
This is the price we have to pay if wewant to produce programs that are of interest not onlyin the research labs but also into the arena of realworld.Strangely enough, in the past we had neither theright tools, nor a decent theory (see 8, 27, 31), yetpeople were optimistic and went ahead.
Today we aremuch better off.
We do have very powerfid tools (fastcomputers with well designed graphical interfaces,browsers, CD-Roms, authoring languages), and awhole set of quite promising theories, yet we hesitate.But, what are we waiting lot'?References:Abeill6, A.
1990.
A Lexicalized Tree AdjoiningGrammar for French and its Relevance to LanguageTeaching.
In M. Swartz & M. Yazdani (eds.
)Bailin, A, C. Chapelle, L. Levin, G. Mulford, (2Neuwirth, A. Sanders, R. Sander & ,I. Underwood.1989.
A Bibliography of Intelligent Computer-AssistedLauguage Instruction.
Computers and the lhunanities.85-90.
Kluwer Academic PublishersBereiter, C. & M. Scardamalia.
1987 The Psychologyof Written Composition.
Hillsdalc, NJ: LawrenceErlbaum4.
Bierman, D., J. Breuker & J. Sandberg (Eds.)
1989.Artificial Intelligence and Education.
Proceedings ofthe 4th Intenrational Conference on AI and Education,Amsterdam5.
Brooks, N. 1964 l,anguage and l,auguage I,earning.Chicago, Harcourt Brace & Workl6.
Brown, H. 1987 Principles of Language l,carning andLanguage Teaching.
Englewood Cliffs, N J: Prentice-Hall7.
Carbonell, J.
(ed.)
1990.
Machine Learning: Para-digmsand Methods.
Cambrklge Mass., the MIT Press8.
Chastain, K. 1969.
The audio-lingual habit learningtheory vs. the code-cognitif learning theory, lleidel-berg, IRAL, 7, 2, 97-1079.
De Cecco, J.
(ed.).
1964.
Educational Technology:Readings on Programmed Instruction.
New York, l lolt,Rinehart & Winston10.
Frasson, C. & G. Gauthier (Eds.).
1990 IntelligentTutoring Systems.
Norwood, N J: Ablex11.12.13.14.15.16.17.18.19.20.21.22.23.24.25.26.27.Gethin, A.
& E. Gunnemark.
1995.
The Art andScience of l,earning Languages.
Intellect books,Headington, OxfordHilgard, E. & G. Bower.
1975.
Theories of learning.Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice HallIlolland, M., J. Kaplan & M. Sams (Eds.
).1995.Intelligent Language Tutors.
llillsdale, NJ.
: LawrenceErlbaum Associates.Jakobovitz, L. 1970.
Foreign Language Learning: aPsycholinguistic Analysis of the Issues.
Rowley,Newbury HouseKearsley, G. 1987.
Computer Aided Instruction.
In,Shapiro (ed.)
Encyclopedia of Artificial lntellige,ce.Vol.
1.
New York John Wiley & SonsLade, R. 1969. l,anguage Teaching a ScientificApproach.
New York, ltarper & RowLanda, L. 1974.
Algorithmization in Learning andInstruction.
New Jersey, Euglewood Clifl%Lawler, R. & M. Yazdani (Eds.).
1987.
ArtificialIntelligence and Education.
Learning Enviromnents andTutoring Systems.
Vol.
l, 413~427.
Norwood, NJ:AblexLcont'cv, A.
A.
1974.
Psycholinguistik und Sprach-unterricht (Psycholinguistics and l,anguage Tea-ching).Stuttgart, KohlhammerLeont'ev, A.N.
1981.
Psychology and the Languagel.,earning Process.
Pergamon PressMichalski, R., J.Carbonell & T. Mitchell (eds.).
1983.Machine Learning: an Artificial Intelligence Approach.Pale Alto, Tioga PublishingMiller, G. & C. Fellbaum.
199(/WordNet and the Or-ganization of Lexical Memory.
In M. Swartz & M.Yazdani (cds.
)Novak, J.
& 1).
Gowin.
1984.
Learning how to I,earn.Ca,nbridge.
Cambridge University PressO'Shea T. & J. Self.
1983.
Learning and Teaching withComputers: Artificial Intelligence in Education.Englewood Cliffs.
NJ: Prentice-ItallPoison, M. & J. Richardson (eds.).
1988.
Founda-tionsof Intelligent Tutoring Systems.
ltillsdale, NJ.
:Lawrence Erlbamn Associates.Psotka, J., Massey, D., Mutter, S.
(eds.)
1988.Intelligent Tutoring Systems: Lessons I,ea,ned.ltillsdale, NJ.
: tmwrencc Erlbamn Associates.Rivers, W. 1964.
The Psychologist and the ForeignLangnage Teacher.
Chicago, University of ChicagoPress100328.
Self, J.
1988, Artificial Intelligence and Human Lear-ning.
London, Chapman and Hall Computing.29.
Skinner, B.
1968.
The Technology of Teaching.
NewYork, Appleton Century Crofts30.
Sleeman, D. & J.
Brown (eds.).
1982.
Intelligent Tu-toring Systems.
London, Academic Press3l.
Spolsky, B.
1966.
A Psycholinguistic Critique ofProgrammed Foreign Language Instruction.
Heidel-berg, IRAL, 4, 232.
Swartz, M. & M. Yazdani (Eds.)
1990.
IntelligentTutoring Systems for Foreign Language Learning: theBridge to International Communication.
Berlin,Springer Verlag33.
Wenger, E. 1987.
Artificial Intelligence and Tutoringsystems, Computational nd Cognitive Approaches tothe Communication of Knowledge.
Los Altos, CA:Morgan Kaufmann Publishers34.
Wilks, Y.
& D. Farwell.
1990 Building an IntelligentSecond Language Tutoring System from Whatever Bitsyou Happen to Have Lying Around.
In M. Swartz & M.Yazdani (eds.)35.
Woolf, B.
1988.
Intelligent Tutoring Systems: aSurvey.
In H. Shrobe & American Association forArtificial Intelligence (Eds.).
Exploring ArtificialIntelligence: Survey Talks for the National Confe-rences on Artificial Intelligence, Los Altos, CA:Morgan Kaufmann Publishers.
1-431004
