The Internet a "natural" channel for language learningINUI  KentaroDept.
of  Computer  ScienceTokyo Institute of Techno logy2 -12-10-okayama Meguro  152 Japane-mai l : inui@cs.t i tech.ac.
jpThe network as a motivational source for using aforeign language.
Electronic networks can be useful inmany ways for language learners.
First of all, networkfacilities (e-mail, news, WWW home-pages) minimize notonly the boundaries of time and space, but they also help tobreak communication bar-tiers.
They are a wonderful toolfor USING a foreign language.
E-mail, for example, can beused not only for interaction between teachers and students,but also for interaction among students (collaborativelearning).
Students can even ask for help from friends or"ex-perts" living elsewhere, on the other side of the globe.There have been quite a few attempts to introduce thesenew tools into the classroom.
For example, there are severalwell established mailing lists between Japanese and foreignschools.
This allows Japanese kids to practice, let's sayEnglish, by exchanging messages with students from"abroad", chatting about their favorite topics like music,sport or any other hobby.
Obviously, this kind ofcommunication is meaningful for the student, since s/hecan talk about hings /he is concerned with.What role then can CALL system play in this newsetting?
Rather than trying to play the role people are verygood at (answering on the fly questions on any topic,common sense reasoning, etc.
), CALL system should assistpeople by providing the learner with information humansare generally fairly poor at.
One way to help the user is byproviding him with infor-mation (databases) he is lookingfor.
For example, all language l arners are concerned withlexicons.
Having fabulous browsing tools, computers havea great advantage over traditional dictionaries.
Also, peopleare not very good in explaining the contexts in which aword may be used, or in explaining the difference betweentwo words.
Last, but not least, existing NLP technology,such as parsing or machine translation, could beincorporated into the development of 'intel-ligentdictionaries'.
However, before doing so, we have toconsider several basic issues : what information is useful,that is, what in-formation should be provided to the learner,when and how?
For example, rather than killing the user byan information overflow, -like these long list of translationsthat most electronic dictionaries provide, lists in which theuser has to dig deeply in order to find the relevant word,-one could parametrize the,level of detail, scope and grainsize of trans-lations for a given text or text fragment.
Insum, there should be a balance between the informationprovided by the system and the user's competence.Following this line of reasoning we have started towork on a user friendly interface for a bilingual exicon(English-Japanese).
Two features of our prototype areworth mentioning: (a) the tool is implemented asa WWWapplication (http://tanaka-www.cs:titech.ac.j p/-inui/JLD.html), hence lexical information is pre-sented ina hypertext lashion, i.e.
the user can jump from oneinformation toanother; (b) the system has a mechanism forexample retrieval.
The dictionary consists of a lexicon anda database of examples, the latter being a collection ofcollocations extracted from text corpora such as newspaperarticles.
When looking for a particular word, the user caninput in English or Japanese any word that is semanticallyrelated with the one he is looking for.
The system searchesthen its database, displaying those examples that exhibitthis kind of relation.
The examples are displayed inhyptertext format in terms of similarity, that is; theexamples are grouped or ordered in terms of member-shipor proximity.
Each example being linked to that part of thecorpus from which it has been taken, each word in theexample being linked to the corresponding dictionary entry.The net as facility for resource sharing anddevelopment.
The advantages of networks for sharingresources are obvious.
For example, the CONJUGATEproject between Melbourne universi-ty and TsukubaUniversity having started to put Ja-panese CALL softwareon an FTP server (http://www.intersc.tsukuba.ac.jp/conjugate.html).
Al-though it is still ata preliminary stage, people from all over the world canaccess this information.
This tendency will certainlyincrease with the development of platform independentlanguages such as JAVA.
Yet, networks are also useful forresource development as they allow to reduce the gapbetween the developing team and the end user.
Theelectronic dictionary of Japanese developed at MonashUniversity is a good exampleJ The dictionary and referencetool are distributed as freeware(ftp://l'tp.cc.monash.edu.au/pub/nihongo/).
Note t~at thedictionary has currently more than 170,000 entries withEnglish glosses and Kanji trans-criptions.
What enabledthis research group to build so quickly such a huge lexiconwas the network.
The users provided the developers withfeedback, by adding new lexical items to the originaldictionary.
Due to this tight coupling, i.e.
connectionbetween the developers and the users, the dictionary grewi Actually, MacJDic was developed by a graduate studentfrom Harvard, whereas the body of the dictionary was firstdeveloped and maintained by the center administrator atMonash University.
There have been also several groups ofjapanese teachers across the world who have contributed tothe ddvelopment.
The final maifltenance was under thecontrol of Jim Breen.1012very quickly.
There is another eason to plead for this kindof feedback loop: software users are generally the ones whoknow best what their needs are, that is, what is useful.Such schemes where learners directly participate inresource development allow for authentic ommuni-cation,hence there is a benefit tbr the learner, they also show theengineer the kind of information the learner is interested in,inlbrmation which is usually hidden.
In order to maximizethe over-all benefits we have decided to develop ourJapanese lexicon tool as a WWW application.
This allowsfor feedback fiom the users during the development phase.The next stage consist in moving away fiom a fully client-server set np, to a semi-stand alone implementation, basedon the platform independent language, JAVA.1013
