Corpus-based annotated test set for Machine Translationevaluation by an Industrial UserEva DAUPHIN and V~ronika LUXAEROSPATIALE - CCR12, rue Pasteur, BP 7692152 Suresnes Cedex - Franceeva.dauphin@siege.aerospatiale.frveronika.lux@siege.aerospatiale.frAbstractThis article is concerned with the building of a test dataset for assisting the industrial user in machine translationevaluation.
The emphasis is laid on the interest of anapproach based on the study of bilingual corpus pragmaticcharacteristics.
The study of one chapter of themaintenance manual of the Super Puma helicopter made itpossible to identify the pragmatic characteristics relevantin the choice of the morpho-syntactic structures andtranslation processes actually used.
The textual test setconsists in a SGML file including the source text sequencesaligned with the reference translation sequences and alsoincluding the pragmatic, formal and translationalcharacteristics in the form of annotations (labels andformal descriptions).IntroductionCorpus studies appear to be one of the most appropriatetechniques to identify the linguistic constraints and needswhich will be used as evaluation measurements and criteriato judge the adequacy of a machine translation system to anindustrial user's environment.
In this article, the linguisticconstraints correspond to the linguistic characteristics ofthe corpora to be treated by the machine translationsystem.
These constraints are illustrated in the sourcelanguage corpora to be submitted to machine translation.The linguistic needs correspond to the minimal level ofquality required for the produced translation.
These needsare illustrated in a human attested translation of thechosen source corpora.
The identification and formalisationof the linguistic constraints and needs illustrated incorpora represent a major step during the evaluationprocess of machine translation applications by an industrialuser.
Corpus study is not a new concept in the NLP domain,but the methods used can be quite different depending onthe expected results and applications.
In this article, we willdescribe how we built a reusable annotated test setthrough the study of a bilingual corpus.1 A highly structured documentationThe corpus we chose to study is the maintenance manual forthe Super Puma helicopter written in French and itsattested human translation in English 1.
An importantcharacteristic of this corpus is that it is written and usedin compliance with the so-called ATA 2 100 specification.1.1 ATA 100: a short presentationTile ATA 100 specification role is to provide a set of rulesfor the writing and exploitation of aircraft after-saledocuments.
Both document writers and users are supposedto be familiar with this specification.
As such, the ATA 100specification defines the document production and useenvironment.
In particular, the specification imposes a verystrict way of structuring the text in terms of topical anddiscursive organisation, and also in terms of practicaldocument production by providing a dedicated SGML DTDfor the maintenance manuals (ATA 100 DTD).
Therelevance of ATA 100 in the writing and exploiting processof the document encouraged us to consider the corpus froma quite new point of view in the NLP domain: the pragmaticapproach.
The ATA 100 specification can indeed beconsidered as a sociolectal system or standard (i.e.
asystem that rules the communicative usage inside arestrained community of persons).From a communicative point of view the ATA specificationdefines the types of discursive genres (illocutionary forceof the utterances) the writer has to adopt according to apre-defined document structure.
For example, all themaintenance documents must be divided into tasks andsubtasks.
Each maintenance task description should bepreceded by a definition of this task.
Any task to beperformed should be described as a succession of subtaskswhich are explained in the form of a succession of orders.Each task and subtask has a precise denomination thattakes the form of titles in the document.
Because themaintenance manuals are submitted to annual updates, thedocument contains also a large number of factualinformation such as dates, version numbers, aircraft typereference, page numbers etc.
The production and1 Because of the huge volume of the document (7 Mo of plaintext), we chose to select a representative sample of it :chapter 10.
Parking and Mooring.2 Air Transport Association of America \[ATA:92\]1061exploitation environment having a strong impact on the waythe documents are written, it was quite natural to firstcharacterise the corpus we were intending to study from apragmatics point of view.12 Pragmatic labelling of sequencesFor us, the pragmatic labelling was a first step in theclassification of utterances based on their communicativevalue.
Practically, we decided to assign to each utteranceof the text a label indicating its textual and discursivestatus according to the ATA 100 indications.
Thepragmatic study of the corpus resulted in the definition of4 types of labels: the meta-textual indicators, the topicalmeta-utterances, the discursive meta-utterances and theillocutionary typed utterances (orders, definitions, etc.
).For example, the METNORM and METXNORM labelscorrespond to the Task and Subtask titles in the text:Stockage des instrumentsD#stockage des atterrisseursRemise en service de I'appareilThe illocutionary aim of the METNORM or -XNORM is tohelp the user understanding the topical organisation of thedocument.
They actually illustrate the operationalorganisation of the maintenance work to be done by theuser.2 Underlying syntactic behavioursThe second step of the corpus study consisted in theobservation of the formal structures of the utterancespreviously labelled from a pragmatic point of view.
As wecan notice in the above examples, the pragmatic value of theutterances has a very clear incidence on their morpho-syntactic structure.2.1 Some observationsIn our corpus, we observed that the Meta-TextualIndicators usually present a phrasal structure (they are notcomplete sentences) and include a large number ofbrachygraphical signs (acronyms, codes, alpha-numericalreferences, etc.).
The meta utterances are all nominalphrases resulting from the nominalisation of verbal groups:Stockage des instrumentsDestockage des atterrisseursor from the topicalisation of an object:E-16ments tockfis en containers pressuris6sNominalisation and topicalisation can thus be considered asprocesses used by the writer to "textualise" knowledge forits reader.As far as the Directive - Operation Utterances (EDOPER)are concerned, we also could observe very strongregularities which are all based on the same morpho-syntactic basic scheme: VERB + OBJECT, the verb isalways an infinitive one, the real subject (the reader) isnever mentioned and adverbial complements may beinserted at specific places in the sentence depending ontheir semantic value (time, manner, place, mean, etc.
).22 Typical morpho-syntactic schemesThis type of morpho-syntactic observations has beencarried out for all the utterances of the text and resultedin the definition of twelve morpho-syntactic basic schemespresenting the characteristics of the linguistic structuresused by the writer.
Our morpho-syntactic schemes arebased on the concept of syntagmatic omponents which arefurther specified using a set of features.
We used twokinds of features: morphological features (tense, mode,voice, derivation, etc.
), and functional features (manneradverbial complement, direct object, subject, agent, etc.
).For example, most of the Topical Meta-Utterances (MET)correspond to the morpho-syntactic scheme SNDEV whichis the following:N + (AJ) + (SN1) + (SPIISN2) 3 + (SAVISP2) 4with the following features:?
N: deverb = +, indicating that the noun (N) is theresult of the nominalisation of a verb (deverb)?
A J: fonction = #pith#te, indicating that the adjective(AJ) has the function of modifier,?
SNI: fonction = COMPADV and type = temps,indicating that the nominal phrase has a function ofadverbial complement (COMPADV) with a "time"semantic (type = temps)?
SPI: fonction = dev-OBJ and prep = de, indicatingthat the prepositional phrase has a function of objectof a nominalisation (dev-OBJ) introduced by thepreposition de (prep = de).?
SN2: fonction = dev-OBJ, indicating that the nominalphrase has a function of direct (there is noprepositional introducer) object of a nominalisation(dev-OBJ)?
SAV and SP2: fonction = COMPADV and type =mani#re, indicating that the SAV and/or the SP2 havethe function of adverbial complement (COMPADV)with a "manner" semantics (type = maniere).The scheme presentation reflects the results of a textualstudy and in order to formalise some particular phenomena,we had to introduce some specific features such as"deverb" for the nouns resulting from the nominalisation ofverbs.
These schemes are actually generic representationsthat allow us to characterise all the textual sequences ofour corpus using only 12 scheme labels.2.3 Co-descriptionThe study of the possible co-description of an utteranceby a pragmatic label on one hand and by a morpho-syntacticscheme on the other hand made it possible to assesscompatibilities and incompatibilites between the pragmaticvalue of an utterance and its linguistic structure.
Thefollowing table shows that for each pragmatic value, we canfind a typical underlying morpho-syntactic structure.3 The sign 'T' means an "or".4 The brackets indicate that the component is optional.1062SNI)EVSNDEV2SNTIIEMSNTIIF, M2SNADI{T.~NA1)I{'\[2SPADVPACTPPASPCOI ~lJNFSBRAIMTF, NT IMTPI)P IM'I'I.APX XX.
, ,  |X XIM1TI)M 1 M'I'I~.I)TX XX XX XX XEAI)FJ: f{AI)ESCRXxxI'DINI) F,I)O PE\]~.XIVIF, TNoRM METXNORMX X'X' XX?,x!
MI':I)At this stage of the corpus study, we described eachtextual sequence of our text with two labels: a pragmaticone (indicating the textual and illocutionary status of thesequence) and a morpho-syntactic one (describing itsformal behaviour).3 Underlying translational behavioursThe third step of the corpus study intended to show thatit was possible to add translational information on thealready obtained pragmatic and morpho-syntacticinformation.
To get these translational information, wecarried out a contrastive study of our French text with itsattested human translation.3.1 Some observationsThe pragmatic characteristics of the text apparentlyimplied some translation choices.
Indeed, for us, only thedirective illocutionary value of utterances could explain thechoice of translating the French infinitive verbs in Englishimperative verbs.
Infinitive, in French has no intrinsic valueof imperative ; all the infinitive verbs in French are notnecessarily translated by an imperative verb in English.Also, the pragmatic phenomena of "terminologisation"which are not the same in French and in English explain thepossible structural non correspondence between somenominal phrases:Appareil entrepos6 non stock6--> Aircraft Stored-No Preservation Measuresor between some sentences.
The keeping of the pragmaticvalue from French to English can also lead to the restitutionin English of some missing elements in French:rotation des roues--> rotate the wheels.3.2 Translational annotationsThe contrastive study led us to identify some recurrent (inour corpus) translational consequences due to thepragmatic value preservation from French to English.
Thispart of the study resulted also in the identification of somephenomena that ffave to be strictly formalised if we wantthem to be correctly handled by a machine translationsystem.
This is the case for the terminological elementsthat may have quite unpredictable translations (orequivalents):GTM--> EnginesCircuits an&no..barom#triques --> Air Data SystemsConcerning the problem of term translation, the bestsolution we found for annotating the test set consists intagging them in the French sequence and in the Englishcorresponding sequence using SGML tags (<T> and </T>):Verifier la <T>BTP</T>--> Check < T>MGB</T>Concerning the morpho-syntactic translationalobservations, we chose to express them in the form of an"oriented rule" attached to the French-English pair ofcorresponding sequences.
If we take the example ofdetermination in the Topical Met&Utterances (topicaltitles), we observe that the nominal phrases which are theobject of a nominalisation are nearly always determined:Destockage de la structureNettoyage des parties m#talliqueswhereas they are systematically undetermined in English:Depreservation of airframeCleaning of metal partsThe annotation concerning the omission of determiner inEnglish is the following:V + SP --> V + SP(DT-) 5and is attached to the concerned pairs of English-Frenchsequences.4 Building an annotated test setThe corpus study allowed us to get a large number ofinformation concerning the French text on one hand, and theEnglish text on the other hand.
We also have information onthe corpus-specific translational processes used fromFrench to English.
In order to build the test set, itappeared necessary to structure this information so that itcould be exploited by the industrial evaluator.4.1 Defining an annotation schemeTo structure our annotated test set, we defined a so-called "annotation scheme" and we adopted the descriptivelanguage SGML.
The test set is based on the notion ofequivalent textual sequence pairs directly extracted fromthe aligned French-English original studied corpus.
Eachpair of aligned sequences compose what we called a testunit.
The information concerning the French sequence isdirectly attached to it (morpho-syntactic scheme,5 V for Verb, SP for Prepositional Phrase,Determiner.DT for1063complete morpho-syntactic description and taggedterms) ;the information concerning the English sequence isdirectly attached to it (complete morpho-syntacticdescription and tagged terms) and the informationconcerning the sequence pair (pragmatic label, factualdata) is attached to the created test unit.4.2 The use of SGMLTo really get a structured file of annotated test data, wechose to build it in compliance with the SGML ISOstandard.
We thus wrote an SGML DTD in order toformalise the conceptual annotation scheme.
The resultobtained for the following sequence pair:Stockage appareil complet--> Storage of complete aircraftis the following:<UTEST NUM="0001" CHAPNUM="10"PRAGTYPE="METNORM" PARTRAD="I-I"><SEQS STRGEN="SNDEV"><LIB>Stockage appareil complet<LIBD>N_deverbatif + dev-OBJ\[SN(N + AJ)\]<SEQC> LANG="EN"><LIB>Storage of complete aircraft<LIBD>N_deverbatif lex + dev-OBJ\[SP(PP + SN(AJ +N))\]><ETRAD CDLANG="FR-EN"><TRADN NUM="01">N_deverbatif--> N_deverbatif_lex<TRADN NUM="02">dev-OBJ\[SN\] --> dev-OBJ\[SP\]This format, though a bit complex for an human eye, has theadvantage to clearly separate annotations from the originaltextual data.
Moreover, this format allows an easyexploitation of the contained data provided the evaluatoruses SGML tools with which selection and extraction ofsubset of data become really easy (each tagged data is apotential selection criteria).ConclusionThe interest of building this kind of annotated test setfrom corpora is multiple.
First, it allows the evaluator tohave at his disposal a whole set of potential test data whichare clearly representative of his real industrial needs.Being enriched by pragmatic and morpho-syntacticannotations, it considerably helps the evaluator to clearlyidentify the phenomena well or badly handled by a machinetranslation system.
Indeed, using the annotations, theevaluator can easily link the mistakes of a machinetranslation system with the concerned linguistic units.The presence of a reference annotated translation is alsoof great help for keeping the evaluator as impartial aspossible (even if a r~ference human translation may notalways be the best one).
This is particularly true whendealing with terminology.
Finally, using SGML for thebuilding of the test set file allows one to perform targetedevaluations by giving extraction criteria such as themorpho-syntactic schemes or even the pragmatic labels: anevaluator can decide to select all the test units includingthe pragmatic METNORM label in order to carry out aspecific evaluation of the MT system performances whentranslating the task and subtask titles of the Super Pumahelicopter maintenance manual.As stated above, our initial aim in this corpora study wasthe building of a corpus-based annotated test set, to beused for the evaluation of MT systems.
The resultsnevertheless seem interesting for some other purposes.Firstly, these results are potential contributions to thespecification of dedicated NLP systems.
In particular theyallow one to suggest heuristics for the processing oflinguistic phenomena which, in general, are known to becomplex problems for NLP.
One example, in the case of MT,is the translation of French determiners into English.Another example, in the case of automatic analysis, is theresolution of anaphora: more than 80% of the pronouns inour corpus refer to the object complement of the lastsentence.On the long run, future MT systems could take advantageof the pragmatic information contained in the SGML tagsof the source text, to drive both the analysis and thetransfer phases.
For example, a verbal form in theinfinitive, when occurring in a procedural part of Frenchtext (identified as such via SGML tags) would be analysedas a sequence with injunctive value, and translated intoEnglish by a verbal form in the imperative.
When occurringin a tittle, a similar infinitive verbal form could betranslated by an "ing" verbal form.ReferencesADAM J.-M., E-16ments de finguistique textuelle, th#orie tpratique de I'analyse textuelle, Liege, Uardaga, 1990.Traitement de I'information, systemes bureautiques,Langage normalis# de balisage g6n6ralis# (SGML), NF EN28879, ISO 8879, Paris, AFNOR 1990.ARNOLD D., Text typology and machine translation: anoverview, in Translating and the computer, n?10, London,ASLIB, 1990.Bureau de Normalisation de rAeronautique et de rEspace,Sp6cification ATA n?lO0, Traduction fran~aise de la mise &jour n?29.
Issy les Moulineaux: BNAE, 1992.AUSTIN J.-L., Quand dire, c'est faire, Paris, Seuil, 1970.BEAUGRANDE R. de, Text, discourse and process,Norwood, Ablex Publishing Corporation, 1980.BUHLER K., Sprachtheorie, Stuttgart, Fischer, 1965.DAUPHIN E., F_tude de corpus: un prealable pourI'adaptation des syst~mes de traduction automatique auxbesoins des utilisateurs, in Actes des 5#mes journ#esscientifiques TA-TAO, Novembre 1993, Universite deMontreal, Uontr6al, UREF, 1993.DAUPHIN E.: E-laboration d'un support de donn#estextuelles bilingues annot6es pour I'aide ~ I'#valuation de latraduction automatique par un utilisateur industriel:I'apport de la pragmatique, These de Doctorat enlinguistique, Universit6 de Paris 7, 1995.FLICKINGER D. et al, Toward evaluation of NLP systems,Special session at the 25th annual meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics, 1987.HUMPHREYS L., User-oriented MT evaluation and textetypology, in Falkedal K.
ed., Proceedings of the evaluator'sforum, Les Rasses, Vaud, 21-24 avril 1991, Gen~ve,ISSCO, p.55-64, 1991.1064ISABELLE P. et WARWICK-ARMSTRONG S., Les corpusbilingues : une nouvelle ressource pour le traducteur, inBOUILLON P. et CLAS A.
ed., La traductique, Montreal,Presses de I'Universit~ de Montreal, p.288-306, 1993.KAY M., ROSCHEISEN U., Text translation alignment,COMPUTATIONAL LINGUISTICS, 19/1, p.t21-142,1993.KING M. et FALKEDAL K., Using test suites in evaluationof machine translation systems, in H. Karlgren ed.,Proceedings of COLING, University of Helsinky, p.211-216,1990.KITTREDGE R. et LEHRBERGER J., Sublanguages,studies of language in restricted semantic domains, Berlin,De Gruyter, 1982.KOCOUREK R., La langue fran?aise de la technique t de lascience, Wiesbaden, Brandstetter verlag, 1991.MARCUS P.M. et al, Building a large annotated corpus ofEnglish: The Penn Treebank, COMPUTATIONALLINGUISTICS, 19/3, p.313-330, 1993.MELBY A., La typologie des textes : son importance pour latraduction autornatique, in BOUILLON P. et CLAS A. ed.,La traductique, Montreal, Presses de I'Universite deMontreal, p.35-40, 1993.SAGER J.C., A practical course in terminology processing,Amsterdam, John Benjamins, 1990.SPERBERG-McQUEEN C.M.
et BURNARD L. ed.,Guidelines for Electronic Text Encoding and Interchange:TEl P3, Oxford, ACH, ACL ALLC, 1994.VANDERVEKEN D., Les acres du discours, Liege,Mardaga, 1988.1065
