Evaluating and comparing three text-production techniques.Ios~ CochGSI-Erlil, pl.
dos Mal:seillaisF-94227 Charcnton-lc-Pont CodexFrancej ose .
coch@er l i ,  frAbstractWhat al+c the benefits of ttsing Natural\[~anguagc (;cneratio,t in an industrialapl+lication?
We have attempt t<) answerpart (}f this qttcsti{}n with at descripti(}n ofan assessment {}f three techniques forproducing multiscntcntial text: senti-atutomatic fill-in-lhc-blank interfacing,automalic linguistic-and-tcmphltes hybridgeneration, and hunlall writing.
ThisasscssIllol\]l used a black b(}xmotlmdology, with ain independetlt blind-tested jury that gave difforent qualitylevels in relation to a sot o1' criteria.
Thetexts used for tile assessl i icnt wcfcbusiness reply letters.1 Introduct ionThct'c arc many m{}re industrial proiccts in Analysisthan in Natural l,anguagc (;cneration.
Therclorc thebencl:ils {}f using applied N1 ,(; would a\]}pcal + a crucialissue.
We have l}r{}vidcd a partial rCSl)onsc It} thisissue by analysing the asscsslnent o\[" three differenttcclmiqucs for producing multiscntential text (in thiscase, business reply letters).In the lollowing section, we have describe{l tile threetechniques under assessment: semi-automatic non-linguistic fill-in-the-blank intcrlhcing, atut(}maticlinguistic-and-tentphtte hybrid gerlct'ation, and humanwril:ing.The third section deals with the black-b{}xmcthodol(}gy and qttality critcria used for tileaISSBSSIlICII\[,"\['lie lk)urth section descl+ibcs the results {}f thealsscssntcn\[.The fiftll section givcs examl}les of letters prt~luccdby both the semi-autonutlic system, and thelilU_Btistic-and-tempIate hybrid system.The hlst section analyses tile results of tileassessment.2 Three techniques for produc ingmultisentential textThis section describes tile three text-productiontechniques under assesslllelt\[.2.1 F i l l - in-the-blank semi-automat ictechniqueSince 1975, the mail department el' lea Redoule (al~;uropcan mail-order colnpany) has been using asemi ;automatic reply system, referred to below as"SA", consisting of a nutnbel +of predelined attd fill-in-the-blank sentences or paragraphs which areidentified by codes that the writers memorisc.
Writinga letter thcrcfore involves typing the code thatcorresponds to the desired pm'agraph and inserting therelevant elcnlents.
The sentences or paragraphs thusproduced are thcl'clbre concatenations o1'predefined andillSertcd texts.l.
A relatively high number of prcdefined sentencesand paragraphs have to be provided, to cover thewriters' needs, but:2.
In fact, writers use only a reduced set of predefined13aragraphs, Ihe nunlber of which depending on tilewriter.3.
The quality of tile t+esulting style of reply varieswidely.2.2  Automatic Hybrid Generation( IAnguistic + Template approach)lea Rcdoutc and GSI-Erli have developed a real-situation pilot system (for details on this project, see(Coch, David, and Magnolcr, 1995)) which builds upa text (i.e.
a letter) fronl data entered by tile humanoperator who processes the request; a custonlcfdatabase; and knowledge bases.
It uses GSi-Erli'sAlcthGen text generation toolbox (see (Coch, 1996)).The overall system is composed of two Inainmodules: thc I)ccision module and the Generationmodule.The Decision module has the following functions:249?
it allows the writer (who reads the request letter)to identify the author and subject of the requestletter;?
it asks the writer for relevant information;?
it suggests a decision (for example, ordercancellation, renewal, etc.
), after consulting thecustomer database and the domain knowledge;?
it asks the writer to validate the decision (or makea different choice);?
it communicates the relevant information to theGeneration module.The Generation module automatically produces thereply letter in a standard l~rmat (SGML).
Thismodule consists of several submodulcs (for moredetails, see (Coch, David and Magnoler 1995) and(Coch and David, 1994)): the direct generator; the textdeep-structure planner (or conceptual planner); thetext surface-structure planner (or rhetorical planner);and linguistic realisation, inspired by the Meaning-Text Theory.The direct generator has two functions:1. planning the text in direct mode (top-down), anti2.
generating more or less fixed expressions or non-linguistic texts (i.e.
tables, addresses, lists, etc.
).The direct generator could be used without the othersubmodules to generate texts in an automatic butnon-linguistic way (manipulation of characterstrings).
Reiter (Reiter, 1995) calls this technique"the template approach".The output of the conceptual planner is the text'sdeep structure, in which the events to be era'tied outare not yet in a definitive order.
The conceptualplanner uses logical, causality, and time rules (see(Coch and David, 1994)).The rhetorical module chooses concrete operators,modalities and surlace order, according to rhetoricalrules.
The choices made depend on certain attributes,e.g.
whether the addressee is aware of an event,whether an event is in the addressee's favour, and soon,Lastly, the linguistic generation submodule realiseseach event li'om the text surface structure.
It usesanaphora (see (Coch, David and Wonsever, 1994)),semantic, deep-syntactic, surface-syntactic, andmorphological rules.
This sub-module is inspiredmainly by the Meaning-Text Theory (as developed forexample in (Mel'euk, 1988) and (Mel'euk andPolgubre 1988)).In accordance with Reiter (Reiter, 1995), La Redouteand GSI-Erli's system can be defined as "hybrid",because it uses both linguistic and templatetechniques.2.3 Human writingThe third technique used was human writing in"ideal" conditions: one of La Redoute's best writerswrote the letters with no time constraints.2.4 Functional differencesIt is to be noted that the three techniques describexldiffer from an external functional point of view:?
in the semi-automatic approach, the writercompose the letter themselves, even if assisted bya set of predefined-paragraph codes;?
in the autonmtic hybrid approach, the operatorenters data on the addressee and letter, but does nothave to compose the reply letter;?
in the third case, the writer has to write the letter.Reiter (Reiter, 1995) studied the difference betweenthe linguistic generation anti template approaches.The two techniques do not differ from an externalfunctional point of view.3.
Methodo logy3.1 Evaluation TestsBlack-box methodology was used for the assessmcm,which was era'tied out by an independent jury of 14people, who were representative of end users, in ablind-test context.
The jury was not informed of theautomatic generation project.Each member of the jury examined the quality of aset of 60 letters (20 produced by the SA system, 20by the automatic hybrid system, and 20 human-written, for identical cases).
No member of the juryknew which technique had been used for producingeach of the letters.Each member o1' the jury wrote a report on cad1letter, with assessment values according to qualitycriteria.
Examples of these criteria are:?
correct spelling,?
good grammar,?
comprehensiveness,?
rhythm and llow,?
appropriateness of the tone,?
proximity, personalisation,?
absence of repetition,?
correct choice and precision of the terminologyused.The first three criteria were considered as eliminatory,and were marked 0 or I.
The other criteria weremarked out of 20.There were also other criteria, but they were tooapplication-oriented and confidential.2503.2  Reprcsentat iv i ty  of  the resultsGiven that the tests used only 20 letters of each type,one might question their representativity.In fact, representativity is ensured by the projectionof the results of the previous phase (system tests)which used the same quality criteria, involved areductxl Jury (2 to 6 members), and was based on200 test cases (200 letters of each type).The test cycle was performed six timcs:Delivery7 ",,,Correction\ ,/TestDiagnosisAfter the sixth cycle, the average quality scoresshowed thai the results wottld be sufficientlyrepresentative.For example, for the following criteria:?
rhythm and flow1.21 precision of terminology0 absence of rel)ctitions16~ 44"~ 12< 10I '1 I '12 3 4 5StepWe can thus conclude that, for the automatic letters,the results are representative,The semi-automatic letters were produced hy \[ittnlan"writers" in a real situalion.
There is no proo\[ o1" this,but several people who know the semi-autotnaticsystetn were of  tim opinion that the scmi-automaticletters ttsed in the test were butter than the averagesemi-atttomatic letter.4.
Assessment results4.1  E l iminatory  cr i ter ia and overal laverageAll the automatic and human letters met theeliminatory criteria standards.
However, this was notthe case for the senti-automatic system, in particulardue to problems of comprehension, but also due togrammatical mistakes in the fill-in-the-blanksystem.The overall averages of the entire jury, for all thequality criteria (including application-orientedcriteria), and for all the letters were as follows.?
semi-automatic system: I 1 out of 20?
automatic hybrid system: 14.5 out of 20?
human-written letters: 15.5 out of 20.It can be seen that the quality of the letters generatedby the pilot systeln using AlethGen was lar superiorto that of the senti-automatic system using predetinexlparagraphs.These tests show that the "Ideal" human-writtenletters are, obviously, thc best.
However, thedifferences between the hmnan-written letters andthose produced by the automatic hybrid system ,'uerelatively slight.4.2  Deta i led resultsBelow are the averages for the whole jury and all theletters, as regards the non-eliminatory criteria:4 .2 .1  Rhythni  and flow?
scmi-automatic system: 12.8 out o1'20?
automatic hybrid system: 14 out of 20?
human-written letters: 16.8 out of 20I I i f f c rcnces  :, ideal human letters 2.8?
atttomatic letters 1.2?
kleal httnmn letters 4The difli:rence between the ideal human letters midthose obtained with the automatic hybrid system isconsiderable: 2.8 out of 20.vs.
automatic letters:vs. SA lcttcrs:vs. SA letters:4.2 .2R ight  tone?
Selni-automatic system:* autonmtic hybrid system:* huma,>written letters:Di f fe rences :.
ideal human letters, automatic lettersI 1.6 out of 2013.6 out of 2014.4 out of 20vs.
automatic letters:vs. SA letters:0.82251?
ideal human letters vs. SA letters: 2.8The results obtained by the ideal human letters ~mdthose generated automatically are close.
However, theditTemnce between automatic and semi-autonmticletters is considerable: 2 out of 20.4.2.3 Proximity, personalisation?
semi-automatic system 12 out of 20?
automatic hybrid system 15.2 out of 20?
human-written letters 17.6 out of 20Differences:?
ideal hunmn letters vs. automatic letters: 2.4?
automatic letters vs. SA letters: 3.2?
ideal human letters vs. SA letters: 5.6Here, all the difli:renccs are considerable.
The humanletters are obviously the best, but the dil\]~rencebetween the automatic and semi-automatic letters isvery great: 3.2 out of 20.4.2.4Absence of repetition?
semi-automatic system 11.2 out of 20?
atttomatic hybrid system 14.8 out (11" 20?
human written-letters 17.6 out of 20Differences:?
ideal human letters vs. automatic letters: 2.8?
automatic letters vs. SA letters: 3.6?
ideal human letters vs. SA letters: 6.4For this last point, all the difl~rcnces mcconsiderable, but that between the automatic andsemi-automatic letters is very great: 3.6 out of 2(i).4.2.5Correct choice of terminology?
semi-automatic system I 1.6 out of 20?
automatic hybrid system 14 out of 20?
human written-letters 16 out of 20Differences:?
ideal human letters vs. automatic letters: 2?
automatic letters vs, SA letters: 2.4?
ideal hunmn letters vs. SA letters: 4.4Here, all differences are relatively great.
That betweenthe atmmmtic and semi-automatic letters isconsiderable: 2.4 out of 20.5.
ExamplesBelow are several examples o1' letters produced usingthe semi-automatic \['ill-in4hc-blmlks system and theautomatic linguistic-and-template hybrid system.5.1 Semi-automatic letterChOre Madame,J'ai bien fe(~u votre courrier du 30tohre  \[sic\]et je eomprends tout h fait votremdcontentement.Nous faisons le maximum pour contenter nosclients, mais nous sommes ddpcndants desddlais de liw'aison que nous imposent certainsfournisseurs.Je suis ddsolde de no pouvoir vous donner unedate prdcise de livraison, croyez bien clue jeregrette vivcment ce retard.Restans 5 votre enti~re disposition, je vousprie de croire, Ch6rc Madame, h l'expressionde rues sentiments ddvouds./Dear Madam,In reply to your letter of 3rd Owber \[sicL 1can completely undetwtand yourd#sati,sfaction.W(-: do our ulmost to satisJS, our customer:v,but are dependent ott the delivery timesimposed on us by certain suppliers.l ant q/kaid that 1 cannot give you an exactdelivery date, and sincerely apologise for thisdek(y.I remain at your entire dLvposal should yourequire any jitrther assistance.Yours sincerely, \]5.2 Linguistic and template exampleChOre Madame,Je suis ddsolde que vous n'ayez pas re(2u leschaussurcs de sport blanches.Comme vous en avez dtd informdc lots deI'enrcgistremcnt de votre commando, ellcsn'dtaient pas disponibles.
La livraison dtaitdiffdrde de deux semaines.Cc ddlai sera un peu plus long que prdvu.I)?~s la rentrde n stock de ces ehaussurcs desport, jc vous lcs envcrrai mmddiatement, cnpriorit,5.J'esp~re que vous nous pardonnerez celteattente t que vous voudrez bien patienter.Je vous prie d'agrdcr, Chbre Madame,l'expression de men entier ddvouement.252/Dear Mac&m,\] ant very sorry/hat you have 1tot received lhewhite sports shoes.These items were not available when yottrorder wax ivcor(led, as 3,oil were injbrmed atthe time.
The deliver was postponed by twoweeks.The delivery will in Jact take a little longerthan planned.As soo~ cts these .S'l)orts 'hoe.s' city in sleek 1will send them to you ill i)rioriO '.1 helle that you will forgive us ./or this delay,and are prel)ared to wait.fin your deliveo'.YoHI'S sill('ere\[),, /5.3 Commentsa) Spelling errol" ill tile semi-automatic letter' due tothe dale writlen by the r)perat(rr in a blank of apredefincd senlcnceb) Personalisation: the article and its colour mementioned only in the automatic letterc) Precision of terminology (precision of theexplanalion): clearly, tile autonnltic loller is muchmore precise5.4 Sent i -automat ic  exampleThe following example shows the typical problem o1'~?~)ctition i the semi-automatic letters.Cher Monsieur,J'ai bien regal w)tre lettre qui a lelenu touler l \ ] ( ) r l  attention.Je r@onds h w)trc demande concernant lamarchandise diffdrde suiwmte : cardigan4566654 lai\[le 114.La marchandise a did enrcgistr@ sous le no176 788956.Un envoi a dld fait le 23 juin.Norlnalement, wins dewiez ddjh awfir req;u laliwaison de ce paquet, veuillez m'adresser deprdfdrence un cheque pour rdgler lal/\]archandise que rlous VOtlS av(rllS ellVOy~e.Rcstant a w)lre enli,Sre disposition, je vouspric de or(tire, Chcr M(msieur, en ruessentiments ddvouds./Dear Si~,I have received your lettel, which I have n'gdwith great attention.I am writing in ~W~I 3, to your requestconcerning the ,/o/lowing postponedmerchandise: alzligan 4566654 size 114.771e merchandise was recorded with thenumber 176 788956.~<Sending oeetued>~ o i l  June 23rd.You shouhl ahvcMy have received this parcel,ther@n'e would you please send me a chequeiH paymeHt of the merchandise that we have,vellt lo yell.I remain at your entire disposalYomw sineerely,/.
Ana lys i s  of  resu l ts  andConc lus ion6.1 Analysis of resultsThe order of results for tile different techniques isalways tile same for all tile criteria: first, trumanwriting; second, the automatic hybrid approach; trodthird, tile senti-automatic system.
Let us nowexamine the salient points of each type o1' technique.Sent i -automat ic  system'File principal weak points of the semi-automaticsystem are as follows, in decreasing order of variationin relation to the human averages.?
l:,liminalory criteria not always reel due loproblems of comprehension a d gramlnar.?
Excessive repetition (a diflcrence of 6.4 out of 20ill relalion Io human writing, and of 3.6 irarehrtion to tire automatic system).?
l,ack of pcrsonalisation (5.6 and 3.2).?
Lack of precision in the choice of vocabulary (4.4and 2.4).Automatic hybrid systemThe principal strong points of the automaticlinguistic-and-templates sy tem based on AlethGenare as follows, in decreasing order of variation inrelation to lhe semi-automatic averages.?
Eliminatory criteria always met.?
Absence of repelition (3.6 out of 20 better thantile semi-automatic system).
* Proximity, personalisation (3.2 better than thesemi-automatic system).
* Precision in the choice of vocabulary (2.4 better').The main points for improvement for lhe automaticsystem are as follows, in decreasing order of variationin relation to the human averages.253?
Absence of repetition (human letters 2.8 out of 20better).?
Rhythm and flow (human letters 2.8 better).?
Proximity, personalisation (human letters 2.4better).Human writingThe best characteristics of the human letters wereabsence of repetition, and proximity /personalisation, which were both given scores of17.6 out of 20.it can be seen that the jury considers the tone of thehuman letters as being not very good: only 14.4 outof 20.
This would appear to be mainly \['or easonsrelated to commercial communication rather thancomputational linguistics.6.2 Conc lus ionThe first conclusion is that semi-automatic systems(just as real-situation human writing) are subject tohuman mistakes, and that the texts they produce maybe difficult to understand.The second conclusion is that the weak points of thesemi-automatic systems are the strong points of theautomatic hybrid systems, in the same order.We can conclude that, even if current automaticgeneration systems could do better (and we believethat this will soon be the case), one of the two mainreasons for using linguistic-and-template hybridsystems uch as that developed by La Redoute ~mdGSI-Erli, rather than using semi-automatic systems,is the improvement in quality (the other being, ofcourse, productivity).Although there are more research and industrialprojects in Analysis than in Natural LanguageGeneration, Generation has great potential, since thegains in terms of quality and productivitylargely justify the investment.ReferencesJose Coch and Raphael David.
1994.
Representingknowledge 1"o1: planning multisentential text.Proceedings of the 4th Conference on AppliedNatural Language Processing, Stuttgart,Germany.Jose Coch, RaphaEl David, and Dina Wonsever.1994.
Plans, rhetoric and anaphora in a textgeneration tool.
Working papers of the IBMInstitute fin" Logic and Linguistics.
Special Issueon Focus and Natural ~cmguage Processing, IBMDeutschland hfl"0rmationssysteme GmbH,Scientific Centre, Heidelberg, Germany.Jose Coch, RaphaEl David, and Jeannine Magnoler.1995.
Quality test for a mail generation system.Proceedings of Linguistic Engineering 95,Montpellier, France.Jose Coch.
1996.
Overview of AlethGen.Proceedings of the International Workshop onNatural Language Generation (INLG-96).Herstmonceux, England, 1996.Igor Mel'~uk.
1988.
Dependency Syntax: Theory andPractice.
State University of New York Press,Albany, NY, USA.Igor Mel'euk and Alain Polgu~re.
1987.
A FormalLexicon in the Meaning-Text Theory (or How toDo Lexica with Words).
ComputationalLinguistics, 13(3-4):276-289.Ehud Reiter.
1994.
Has a consensus NL Generationarchitecture appeared, and is it psycho-linguistically plausible?
In Proceedings of theSeventh International Workshop on NaturalLanguage Generation, pages 163-170.Ehud Reiter.
1995.
NLG vs. Templates.
InProceedings of the 1995 European NL GenerationWorkshop, Holland.254
