An Overview of the EDR Electronic Dictianary and the Current Status of Its UtilizationHideo Miyoshi, Kenji Sugiyama, Masahiro Kobayashi, and Takano OginoJapan Electronic Dictionary Research Institute, LTD. (EDR)Daini-Abe Bldg., 78-1, Kanda-Sakumagashi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101, Japan{miyoshi, kenji, kobayasi, ogino}@edr.co,jpAbstractIn this paper we present the specification and the struc-ture of EDR Electronic Dictionary which was developedin a nine-year project.
The first version of EDR dictio-nary (V1.0) and its revised version (V1.5) are "already re-leased and are now utilized at many sites for both aca-demic and commercial purposes.
We also describe thecurrent status how the EDR dictionary is utilized.
Finallywe will give the outline of the new R&D project whichEDR will launch in fiscal 1996.1 IntroductionThe EDR Electronic Dictionary\[ 1,2,31 is the result of anine-year project (from fiscal 1986 to fiscal 1994),funded by the Japan Key Technology Center and eightcomputer manufacturers* aimed at establishing an infra-structure for advanced processing of natural language bycomputers and knowledge information processing.The features of the EDR Electronic Dictionary can besummarized as follows:(1) A large scale that covers all the vocabulary used inordinary writing(2) Aimed at general purpose applications without biastowards aparticular application system or algorithm(3) Provided with the knowledge base required for truesemantic analysis(4) A high degree of objectivity based on large volumesof text(5) Fundamental content hat is highly generalizedacross different languages and fieldsThe EDR Electronic Dictionary, which is composed ofeleven sub-dictionaries, catalogues the lexical knowledge* Fujitsu, Ltd., NEC Corporation, Hitachi, Ltd., Sharp Corporation,Toshiba Corporation, Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Elec-tric Corporation, and Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd.of Japanese and English (the Word Dictionary, the Bilin-gual Dictionary, and the Co-occurrence Dictionary), andhas unified thesaurus-like concept classifications (theConcept Dictionary) with corpus databases (the EDRCorpus).
The Concept Classification Dictionary, asub-dictionary of the Concept Dictionary, describes the simi-larity relation among concepts listed in the Word Dictio-nary.
The EDR Corpus is the source for the informationdescribed in each of the sub-dictionaries.
The basic ap-proach taken during the development of the dictionarywas to avoid a particular linguistic theory and to allow foradoptability o various applications.The first version of EDR dictionary (VI.0) and its re-vised version (V1.5) are already released and are now uti-lized at many sites for both academic and commercialpurposes.
This paper outlines the specification ofEDRElectronic Dictionary and describes the current status ofits utilization.2 The Structure of the EDR ElectronicDictionaryThe EDR Electronic Dictionary is composed of five typesof dictionaries (Word, Bilingual, Concept, Co-occur-rence, and Technical Terminology), as well as thb EDRCorpus.EDR Electronic Dictionary-Word DictionaryL Japanese Word DictionaryEnglish Word Dictionary- B.ilingual Dictionary~-Jpn.-Eng.
Bilingual Dictionaryt.
Eng.-Jpn.
Bilingual Dictionaryoncept DictionaryHeadconcept DictionaryConcept Classification DictionaryConcept Description Dictionary- Co-occurrence Dictionary~ Japanese Co-occurrence Dictionary1090L English Co-occurrence Dictionary-Technical Terminology Dictionaryf Jpn.
Technical Terminology Dictionary(Information Processing)Eng.
Technical Terminology Dictionary(Information Processing)Others (Concept Classification,Bilingual Dictionary,Co-occurrence Data, etc.
)EDR Corpust Japanese CorpusEnglish CorpusThe Japanese Word Dictionary contains 250,000 words,and the English Word Dictionary contains 190,000 words.The Bilingual Dictionary lists the correspondences be-tween headwords in the different languages.
The Japanese-English Bilingual Dictionary contains 230,000 words, andthe English-Japanese Bilingual Dictionary contains190,000 words.The Concept Dictionary contains information on the400,000 concepts listed in the Word Dictionary and is di-vided according to information type into the HeadconceptDictionary, the Concept Classification Dictionary, and theConcept Description Dictionary.
The !
leadconcept Dictio-nary describes information on the concepts themselves.The Concept Classification Dictionary describes the super-sub relations among the 400,000 concc, pt,;.
The ConceptDescription Dictionary describes the semantic (binary) re-lations, such as 'agent,' 'implement,' and 'place,' betweenconcepts that co-occur in a sentence.The Co-occurrence Dictionm'y describes collocational in-formation in the form of binm'y relations.
The Japanese Co-occmTence Dictionary contains 900,000 phrases, and theEnglish Co-occurrence Dictionary contains 460,000phrases.The Technical Terminology Dictionary covers the field ofinfbrmation processing, attd is split into four types of dic-tionaries of Word, Bilingual, Concept (Classification), andCo-occurrence.The linguistic data which the EDR Corpus contains hasbeen obtained by collecting alarge number of example sen-tences and analyzing them on morphoh)gical, syntactic,attd semantic levels.
The Japanese Corpus contains220,000 sentences, and the English Corpus contains160,000 sentences.3 Role of Each DictionaryThis chapter describes the roles of the majorsubdictionaryies of the EDR Electronic Dictionary andshows some examples.3.1 Word DictionaryThe role of the Word Dictionary is to provide part of theinformation on the morphological, syntactic, and seman-tic revels that is requited for natulal anguage processing.Morphological  information relates to headword(morpheme) mid intbrmation on the connectivity of roofphemes.
This is used in morphological nalysis to findthe morphemes, and also used in morphological genera-tion to produce output sentences.Information on the syntactic level includes parts ofspeech as well as surface case information and othergrammatical ttributes.
This information is used in syn-tactic analysis and generation, and provides the basis forthe formulation of parsing rules and production rules.Semantic information includes concept identifiers.Headconcept and concept explications are provided asaccampanying information.
The concept identifier is anumerical expression and the basic constituent of theConcept Dictionary.
The headconcept is a representativeword that is the most appropriate in expressing the corncept identified by the concept identifier.
The concept ex-plication is an explanation written in natural language torthe p.,i,o,~;c of assisting humans in differentiating one~:,~nccpl Imm another.
Every Word Dictionary record hasa concci)t identifier to link the Word Dictionary and theConcept Dictionary.The following is an example of English Word l)ictio-nary record:lleadword: dogCormoct .
J v i t :y  : I!
',I,N\] , I , ' , ( ' ,N1Part o\[ Speech: I,',NI (common noun)CrammaLJcal  At.t.ribut.
()s: \],:CN\] ;I:NSG, I,:NC;I,:NNI,:CoI Ic : ( :p t  I 1): ?
;dbc6 ' /lloadconcept : doqConcept  l,:x~)l icat ion: an anima\] ca\ ] led dog3.2 Bilingual DictionaryThe Bilingual Dictionary is designed to give appropriatecorrespondence words to the headwords contained in theWord Dictionmy, in machine processings.
The headwordinformation of the Bilingual Dictionary is a subset of theWord Dictionary, that is, headword notations, parts ofspeech, concept identifiers, headconcepts, and concept1091explications.
The eoricept identifiers and concept expli-cations are used to indentify the meaning of thepolysemous headwords.
Some of the correspondencewords include additional information which describes theconstraints where the correspondence words are u~d.The following is an example of English JapaneseBiligual Dictionary record:Headword : dogPart of Speech: ENI (common noun)Concept_ ID : 3dbc67Headconcept : dogConcept Explication: an animal called dogCorrespondence Word:3.3 Concept DictionaryThe role of the Concept Dictionary is to provide the datarequired for computer processing of the semantic on-tents or the concepts, expressed innatural language sen-tences, uch as:(1) Generating appropriate s mantic representations forsentences(2) Determining the similarity (equivalence) of seman-tic contents(3) Converting a semantic ontent into a similar(equivalent) contentFor this reason, the Concept Dictionary contains threetypes of subdictionaries: Headconcept Dictionary, Con-cept Classification Dictionary, and Concept DescriptionDictionary.
In the Concept Dictionary, each concept isuniquely identified by a concept identifier which is ahexadecimal number.
The Headconcept Dictionary con-tains the concept identifier and the headconcept, and theconcept explication.
The headconcept is a word whosemeaning is close to the content meaning of the concept.The concept explication is an explanation which ex-presses the meaning of the concept.
The Concept Classi-fication Dictionary contains the set of pairs of conceptsthat have super-sub (is_a) relation.
For example, the su-per-concepts of 'school' are 'organization,' 'building,' and'function.'
The sub-concepts of 'school' are 'elementaryschool,' 'university,' and so forth.
The Concept Descrip-tion Dictionary contains the set of pairs of concepts hathave certain semantic relations other than super-sub rela-tions.
The following eight semantic relations are used:object agent goal implementa-object place scene cause,~, 30f6ae<physical object>30f801 g "**m ?'
<movement> g *%Concept DictionaryI30f802 agent ~ 30f6b<spatial movement> <person>/ /~dc67 k<follow> ~ "  ( <dog> \] N J\ ~ f ~  i < o n a r yEnicgtliShnaWO r~ EV JN ~apanese Word~~' -~ ~ CO'Occ~'- Bilingual Dict ionary D/Ct io t /%~O.o~9~c6O~JFigure 1.
Relationships between sections of EDR Electronic Dictionary1092Table 1: Number of User Sites of the EDR Electronic Dictionaryuniversitygovermentinstitution nalion',d and public private48 18privatecompany total ove rse asNo.
of User Sites 1 3 23 933.4 Co-occurrence DictionaryThe Co-occurrence Dictionary includes the type of wordconbinations used to construct a sentence, that is,collocational information.
This type of information isused to select he appropriate correspondence words inmachine translation.3.5 EDR CorpusThe EDR Corpus is composed of the record number, ~n-tence information, constituent information, morphologi-cal information, syntactic information, and semantic in-formation.
The basic role of the EDR Corpus is first toidentify the sentence constituents of sentences, and thento indicate how the constituents combine to form the mor-phological, syntactic and semantic structure of the sen-tence using a large number of actual examples.
The datain the Concept Description Dictionary and the Co-occur-rence Dictionary is extracted from the EDR Corpus.These subdictionaries are not indendent, but are organi-cally connected (Figure 1).4 The Current Status of UtilizationAs we mentioned in chapter 1, we have already releasedthe first CD-ROM version of EDR Electronic dictionary(V1.0) in April 1995 after the nine year R&D project.They are now being utilized at many sites for both aca-demic and commercial purposes (Table 1).
In fiscal 1995,furthermore r finement and improvement were done andthe revised version (V1.5) is available since April 1996.One of the users, Fujitsu, released a commercial productusing the EDR Electronic Dictionary in 1995.
The prod-uct is called "Denjikai for Windows V2.0," which re-trieves the word information from various dictionariesincluding EDR Electronic Dictionary.5 Conclusion and Future WorkA number of dictionaries are currentry being developedunder the name of electronic dictionaries (machine-read-able dictionaries).
These dictionaries consist of informa-tion li'om published ictionaries that has been stored on arecording medium, and which can then be referred to andused by mechanical means.
However, these electronicdictionaries are referred to and used by people, unliketrue electronic d ict ionar ies (machine- t ractab ledictionaries), which in the strict sense are intended foruse in machine processing.
True electronic dictionariesare not simply machine-readable editions of dictionriesfor use by people.
They must include all the informationnecessary for a computer to understand a natural an-guage.
We think that the EDR Electronic Dictionary sat-isfies those conditions and hope that it will be widelyused for various natural anguage processing applica-tions.Finally we would like to make a short remark on the newproject which EDR will launch in fiscal 1996.
The newproject will be funded by Information Technology Pro-motion Agency (IPA) of Japan and will be carried out inconjunction with Tokyo Institute of Technology and To-kyo University.
The objective of the project will be thecreation of a software that will allow the linguistic knowl-edge base to automatically expand by feeding the outputof analyzed text into the knowledge base itself.
We hopethis will help refine and extend the EDR Electronic Dic-tionary.References\[ 1 \] EDR, Proceedings of the International Workshop onElectronic Dictionaries, EDR TR-031, 1991.\[2l EDR, EDR Electronic Dictionary Version 1 Techni-cal Guide, EDR TR2-003, 1995.\[3l EDR, Summary for the EDR Electronic DictionaryVersion 1 Technical Guide, EDR TR2-005, 1995.1093
