Mental State Adjectives: the Perspective of GenerativeLexiconP ier re t te  Bou i l lonISSCO,  Un ivers i ty  of Geneva54, route  des Acac ias1227 Geneva ,  Swi tzer landpb~divsun, un ige ,  chAbst ractThis paper focusses on mental state ad-jectives and offers a unified analysis inthe theory of Generative Lexicon (Puste-jovsky, 1991, 1995).
We show that, in-stead of enumerating the various syntac-tic constructions they enter into, withthe different senses which arise, it is pos-sible to give them a rich typed semanticrepresentation which will explain boththeir semantic and syntactic polymor-phism.1 In t roduct ionRecently, work in computational semantics andlexical semantics has made an interesting shift.Motivated by a concern for lexical organizationand global coherence in the structure of lexicon,some researchers have moved towards nlore ex-pressive semantic descriptions, as well as morepowerful methods of combining them (see for ex-ample Pustejovsky, 1991, 1995; Briscoe, 1993).This article will exploit one of these theories,The Generative Lezicon (GL: Pustejovsky, 1995),and extend it for the treatment of French mentaladjectives.
The following section summarizes theproblematic behaviour of these adjectives.
TheGL approach is then described, and a GL analysisof the data.2 The  DataMental adjectives which denote an emot iona ls ta te  or a competence  (agent -or iented,  fol-lowing Ernst, 1983) present interesting syntacticand semantic polymorphic behaviour, as noted inthe literature (see for example Leh~er, 1990 andCroft, 1984).
In this paper, we focus on the rep-resentative members of these classes in I and IhWe would like to thank James Pustejovsky for exten-sire discussions on the data presented in this article.Thanks also to Laurence Danlos and Graham Russellfor their conunents.I Emot iona l  adject ives:  triste 'sad', furieuz'angry, furious', irritg 'irritated', heureuz'happy', ennuyg 'bored'.II Agent -or lented  adject ives:  intelligent,ingdnieuz 'clever', habile 'skilful', adroit 'dex-trous'.Both classes of adjectives exhibit the propertyof syntact ic  po lyva lency,  being able to appearin several distinct contexts, with optional com-plement structures (as illustrated in (1), (2) and(3)).
In the case of agent -or iented  adjectives,the complement expresses the man i fes ta t ion  ofthe state and call be realized as an infinitive withd/pour or de (examples (2a,b)) or a prepositionalphrase (2c): (2a,b,c)means that somebody is skil-ful in what he does or how he does it (see Croft,1984).
(1) Cet homme est triste/habile/furieux"This man is sad/clever/angry TM(2) a. Cet homme est habile de partir"This man is skilful to leave"b. Cet homme est habile ?/pour tricher"This man is skilful at cheating"c. Cet homme est habile au bridge"This man is skilful at bridge"In the case of emot iona l  s tate  adjectives, thiscomplement typically expresses the cause of theemotional state and may be realized as an de-infinitive or a que-sentence: (3a,b), for exam-ple, means that somebody is sad/angry because ofsomething.
Notice however that, in some contexts,the complement can also refer to the mani festa-t ion of the state, as for agent -or lented  adjec-tives (3c).
(3) a. Cet homme est triste/furieux de partir"This man is sad/angry to leave"b. Cet homme cst triste/furieux que tupartes"This man is sad/angry that you are leav-ing"1 We give in quotes a literal translation of the Frenchexamples.143c.
Cet hoInme est triste en jouant an piano"This man is sad at playing piano"Another property exhibited by these adjectivesis that of mu l t ip le  semant ic  select ion: thatis, they are able to predicate of different semantictypes (examples (4) to (7)), namely nouns denot-ing ind iv iduals  (the 'a'  examples), ob jec ts  (b)and events  (c).
This can however not be general-ized to the whole class of mental states adjectives,as shown by (7), for example.
(4) a. Un homme triste "A sad man"b. Un livre triste "A sad book"e. Un examen triste "A sad exam"(5) a. Un homme furieux "An angry man"b. Un livre furieux "A furious book"c. Une destruction furieuse "A furious de-struction"(6) a. Un homme ingdnieux "A clever man"b. Un livre ing6nieux "An clever book"c. Un examen ing~nieux "An clever exam"(7) a. Un homme irritfi/ennuyfi"An irr itated/bored man"b.
*Un livre irrit~/ennuy6"An irr itated/bored book"c. *Une destruction irritde/ennuyfi"An irritated/bored estruction"Finally, the third interesting property mani-fested by these adjectives is their pattern of pol-ysemy.
They exhibit different senses dependingon the semantic type of the item modified: whenthey predicate of an individual, they normally de-note the mental state of this individual (8) (butsee example (12)).
(8) Un homme triste/ing~nieux/furieux"A sad/clever/angry nlan"-~ which is in a sad/clever/angry stateWhen they modify an event or an object, theycan take either a causat ive  (gb) or a man i fes ta -t ion sense (9c, 10e and 11c).
In the former case,the object or event is the cause of the stat% whilein the latter it is the manifestation of the state.
Insome specific contexts, the causative sense is alsopossible with individuals (12).
(9) Un livre/voyage triste"A sad book/travel"a.
- -  *which is in a state of sadnessb.
-~ which causes somebody to be sadc.
--~ which is a nranifestation ofsomebody'ssadness(10) Un livre/voyage ingfinieux"A clever book/journey"a.
~ *which is in a state of clevernessb.
-~ *which causes somebody to be clevere.
-~ which is a manifestation of the some-body's cleverness(11) Un(e) livre/destrnction furienx(se)"A furious book/destruction"a.
--, *which is in a state of angerb.
--~ *which causes somebody to be angrye.
-~ which is a manifestation ofsomebody'sanger(12) Un holnnle triste h voir"A sad man to see"a.
-~ *who is in a state of sadnessb.
~ the sight of whom causes somebody tobe sadA complication arises with respect to the pol-ysemous behaviour of emotion adjectives, in thatwhen they modify an object or an event (9, 10),they can have both the causal and the manifesta-tion senses (gb,e).
For some emotion adjectives asfurieux (11), the manifestation sense is even theonly one available ( l lc).The remainder of this paper will present an ex-planation of the syntactic and semantic behaviourof these adjectives within the framework of Gen-erative Lexicon theory (henceforth GL).
In par-titular, instead of enumerating all syntactic con-structions and the different senses for these ad-jectives, we will provide a rich typed semanticrepresentation which explains both the semanticand the syntactic polymorphism associated withthese classes.
This representation and the way toproject it at the syntax level will be the focus ofthe following section.3 Mental Adjectives in GenerativeLexicon3.1 Genera l  approachIn the rest of the article, we will propose the foplowing approach:(a) to distinguish emot ion  ad jec t ives  andagent -or iented  ad jec t ives  by means oftheir qualia structure;(b) to represent he semantic ambiguity of men-tal adjectives by use of dot ted  types  (Puste-jovsky 1995, chapter 6.2);(e) to explain specific semantic selection by thenotion of headedness  (Pustejovsky 1995,chapter 5.3).The two first points will be the object of section3.2 and the third one of 3.3.
Section 4 will thenfocus on emotion adjectives.,3.2 Two k inds of  ad jec t ive  w i th  dot tedtypeThe emot iona l  s ta te  (I) and agent -or lented(Ii) adjectives will be given the GL representa-tions (13) and (14), respectively.144(13)" emotian_adjEVENTSTR =ARGSTR :: IQUALIA = \[E1 = e l : s ta teD_E :  = e2 :exper ienc ing_ovD_E2 = e3 : inte l lec-act_svRESTR = e2 < el < e3ARGI  = x:human \]D_ARG\] = e2/e3 l(et.e2).
(eLe3)aep 1 FOIrMAI~ = Ad j (e l ,x )Tma(; = P(e3,x,...)AGI~NTIV I~ m P(e2,x,..
.
)(\]4)agent-or iented adjEl :: e l : s ta teEVI.
;NTS'PR : D_E1 :: e3 :intellsc-act_evRleSTII_ = el < 03\[AI\[G 1 :: x : human \]AIrGSq.
'tt = \])_ARG1 := 03e l .egAcp \]QUALIA = FORMAL = A(\[\](e\]\[,x) \[TgI.IC = P(e.3,x,y) JThese structures encode several different aspectsof the semantics for these adjectives.The event  s t ruc ture  (EVENTSTtL) indicatesthat mental adjectives have a complex event struc-ture.
They denote n, cntal s ta te  (el) (examlJes(1) to (3)), but they are also able to make refer-ence to events ,  the cause of the state (c2) and/orits manifestation (ca) (as shown in examples (4)to (7)).
The Restr(iction) relation indicates thetemporal precedence between the state and thetwo events: the cause (e2) must precede the stateand the manifestation (e3) must follow it.
Thetwo events are default events, as the adjective ~:e-mains a state, even when it; has a causative sense,contrary to real transitions (a.ecomplishnw.nt orachievement), like eouler 'sink', for example (aspointed out in Pustejovsky, 1995, chapter \]0)The argument  s t ruc ture  (AltC~STIQ specifiesthat mentM adjectives select; for two arguments,one for human (argl) and a second for event(see Croft, 11984, for a similar view).
The secondis a default argument (D_argJ) as it need not to bepresent at the syntactic level (as shown in exam-pies (1)).
As agent -o r iented  ad jec t ives  referto the manifestation of the state (examples (2)),the second argmnent is e3, the event which followsthe state.
It is subtyped as an intellectual act.
Foremot ion  ad jeet lves ,  the second argument is c2or e3, as they can refer either to the manifestationof the.
state (example (3e)) or its cause (examples(3a,b)).
e2 is subtyped as an experiencing event,as we consider that the cause of an emotion cor-responds to the experiencing of sonlething.
I,'ol-lowing Croft (1990), we think that there are twoprocesses implied in a causal emotional state: ancxperiencer must direct his or her attention to astimulus and this causes the experiencer to enterill a mental state.The qua l la  s t ruc ture  (QUALIA) encodes thebasic semantic type of a word (its Lexical Coil-ceptual Paradigm, or LCP) and specifics how it islinked to other events and arguments of the eventand argument structures (see Pustejovsky, 1995,chapter 6).
To do this, it call use four possible dif-ferent roles: the FORMAL role encoding the basicsemantic type(s) of the word, the CONsTrru'rIw,;role its constitutive elements, the TELIC role itspurpose or function and the AGENTIVE ro le  thefactors involved in bringing it about.
In terms oftemporal relations, the qualia encode specific con-straints on the relative temporal ordering of thewducs of tile quMia.
That is, the event involvedin the AGENTIVE role precedes that state existingill the FORMAL) alld the associated CONSTITUT1VI,)vMne, shonhl there be one.
Finally, the T\]~LIC roleis inherently a tcinporal consequence of the FOlt-MAI,, cf.
(15).
(15) AGENTIVE < FORMAl, and CONST < TEL1CIn the case of mental adjectives, the qualia in(13) and (14) makes explicit that they denote acomplex or dot ted  type (written ~ype.type), whichis the product of basic types, st and e2 for agent -o r iented  adjectives and el, e2 and e3 for emo-t ive ones.
Each of these types can be projectedindependently, if no other constraints apply (see3.3).
The s ta te  cl is encoded in the ~'OttMAL; anevent  encoded in the AGENTIVE role (e2) denotesthe cause  or origin of the state, i.e.
the experi-encing event; encoded in the TEL IC  role (e3), itdenotes then the man i fes ta t ion  of the state, i.e.the intellectual act.In other words, the (ll, representation for emo-t i (m adjectives (13) stipulates that somebody (a:)is in a state because of an experiencing ewmt (e2),which can have a further manifestation (e3); 2 thatlot agent -o r iented  adjectives (14) specifies thatsomebody is in n state which can have ~L manifes-tation.3.3 The  not ion  o f  headHowever, not all mental adjectives will be able toproject the two types they denote (i.e.
state andevent), depending on the event headeduess, inGL, the notion of head provides a way of indicat-ing a type of foregronnding and baekgronnding ofevent arguments.
In doing this, it specifies howto project the qualia representation and acts asa filter to constrain the set of projectable qualia:the headed event projects the tbrnlula associatedwith that event and it; is this formula which needsto be saturated at the syntax level (Pustejovsky,1995, (Jhapter 6.2.5).2 For ~L similar view see Anscombres (1995) whodistinguishes internal feeling and external attitude.I\]e considers then that a feeling can have a externaln tanif'e sl;at ion.145For mental adjectives, two kinds of headednessare possible.
The adjective can be headed eitheron the state or the event it denotes.
Moreover,some adjectives will be unspecified regarding thehead and will therefore be able to be headed onany of the subevents of the event structure.
In thefollowing, we will first focus on the two differentkinds of headedness, applying to the state or oneof the events, and then show the consequences ofan headless tructure.3.3.1 Event  s t ruc ture  headed on the stateThe adjective is projected via the templateP(el,z) in the formal role.
It therefore denotesthe mental state of an individual (16a, 17a) and re-quires only one argument z of type human.
Com-plements are however possible if they make directreference to the agentive (as in (16b,c), where thecomplement is the cause of the emotional state)or relic roles (as in (17b,c), where it is the mani-festation).
(16) a. Je suis triste/furieux "I'm sad/furious"b. Je suis triste/furieux de partir"I'm sad/furious at leaving"c. Je suis triste/furieux qua tu partes'Tm sad/furious that you are leaving"(17) a. Je suis ing6nieux 'Tm clever"b. Je suis ing6nieux aux &hecs"I'm clever at playing chess"c. Je suis ing$nieux de partir"I'm clever to leave"The qualia representation is rich enough to ex-plain the syntactic polyvalency shown in (16)and (17).
There are indeed two ways of referringto a quale role:Direct  sa turat ion  of  a quale role.
The com-plement is identified as a subtype of the experi-encing event or the intellectual act.
In (16b) and(17b), for example, the complement directly sat-urates the event e2 or e3 (as the qualia structuresin (18) and (19) make explicit).
Partir is indeeda subtype of the experiencing event sort (par-fir < ezperiencing_event) and les dchecs (chess)of the intellectual act one (les dchecs < creative-intellectual_act).
By contrast, in order for (20)to be an acceptable sentence, ~tre malade 'be ill'must be reconstructed, non-standardly, as an in-tellectual act.
(18)(19)FORMAL ?
triste(el~je) )TBmC = P(ea,je)AGENTIVZ = partir(e2de)FOCAL = ing6nieux(el je) \]TELIC = jouer(eaje,4checs)(20) *Je suis habile & ttre malade"I'm skilful at being ill"Saturat ion  of  the ob ject  of  the exper ienc ingor intel lectual  act event.
In (16c) and (17c),the complement is the object (y) of an implicitevent and the saturation of the quale is only pos-sible because the complement can be coerced tothe type expected for the complement ( he experi-encing event or intellectual ct): (16c) means thatI'm sad~furious because I ezperience your leaving(as (21) makes explicit) and (17c) that I'm in-genious at performing ~he intellectual ac~ whoseobject is the departure (as in (22)).
There is nofurther specification available for the ezp_ev orintellectual-acLev variable.
(21)FORMAL = t r is te(e l je)  1 TBMC = P(e3je)AGENTIVE  = exp_ev(e2je,que-tu-partes)(22)\[ FORMAL = ing6nieux(el je)  \]TEL IC  = intellec-act_ev(e3je,partir)These two ways of saturating a quale explainwhat Croft (Croft, 1984) and Ernst (1985) havecalled the verbal/factive ambiguity of two argu-ments agent-oriented a jectives (see also Kiparskyand Kiparsky, 1979).
When the event is saturated,we get the eventual sense: in (17b), cleverness ipredicated of the manner of playing chess (struc-ture 19); when the object of the event is saturated,we get the faetive sense so that in (17c) clevernessis predicated of the fact of leaving (structure 22).3.3.2 Event s t ruc ture  headed on an eventRecall that the adjective denotes one or twoevents, i.e.
e2 or e3 in (13) and (14).
When theevent structure is headed on one of these, the ad-jective is projected via the agentive or the relicrole, i.e.
the template P(e2, z, .
.
.)
or P(e3, z,...).It therefore selects for an event and gets thecausative or manifestation sense (examples (23)and (24)).
However, that does not mean that thenoun must be an event, but only that its seman-tic representation, or general knowledge concern-ing its semantic type, should provide an event, asshown in the next examples (23) and (24).
(23) Ce livre est triste "The book is sad"a.
~ whose reading causes omebody to besadb.
-~ whose wr i t ing causes omebody to besadc.
-~ whose wr i t ing is the manifestation ofsomebody's sadness(24) Ce sapin est triste "The pine tree is sad"a.
~ whose exper ienc ing causes some-body to be sad146In (23), the modification by the adjective is pos-sible as livre (book) contains in its qualia structuretwo events, namely life (to read) (relic of livre)and derire (to write) (agentive of livre) (see Puste-jovsky and Bouillon, 1995, for the qualia repre-sentation of livre).
Two causative interpretations(23a,b) and one manifestation (23c) are thereforepossible.
Notice that when the events are definedin the lexical semantics of the word, the experi-encing and the manifestation are intentional andcontrolled (the experiencing is act ive,  followingLehrer, 1990).In (24) on the other hand, there is nothing con-tributed by the ~ree per se to how the experiencingis achieved (as the noun has no telic nor agentive),except for it being a physically manifested objectwith extension.
In this case, it is the propertiesinherited through the formal (and not the lexicalsemantics of the word) that suggests how it can beexperienced.
For this reason, the experiencing isnot controlled, nor intentional (it is stat ive).
Themanifestation sense is impossible as sapin (versusbook) has no intellectual act in its qualia.8.3.8 Unheaded event  s t ruc ture .If certain adjectives can be restricted to be headedeither on the event or the state, others can be leftunderspecified regarding the head.
In this lastcase, the adjective can then be projected via theformal or the telic/agentive roles and combines thetwo or three different senses: stative, causativeand/or manifestation, depending on the numberof events it can refer to (one for agent-orientedadjectives (see (14)), two for emotional ones (see(13))).
This is the case of the adjectives triste andingdnieuz which will get respectively the three andtwo senses, as illustrated in (8) to (10); in (8),triste and inggnieu~ have the head on the formalrole and the adjectives have a stative sense; in (9c)and (10c) on the telic: they have a manifestationsense.
In (9b), triste has the head on the agentiveand receives its causative sense.
Their semanticpolymorphism is then explained, without havingto list the different senses.Remember however that all emotional state ad-jectives which combine a stative and a eventualmeaning will not be able to get the three mean-iugs: the emotion adjective furieuz, for example,cannot have the head on the agentive, as shownin ( l lb):  un livre furieu~ cannot get the causativemeaning.
The question is then what prevents thisadjective from having the head on the agentiverole?
A first attempt at tackling the problem fol-lows from the observation that most emotion ad-jectives ending in -euz (with causal complementand not derived from psychological verbs, as en-nuyeu$, ouirageu~, etc.)
behave in the same way(see the list in (25)) and that, more generally, thesuffix plays a drucial role in restricting the head(see Anseombres, 1995, for a similar view and sec-tion 4 for other examples o f  the influence of thesuffix).
It seems therefore not too preliminary tothink that the -euz suffix acts as a filter on thehead for this kind of adjectives.
However, the for-mal representation of the suffixes and the way itinteracts with the representation of the stem re-main to be investigated.
(25) heureuz, anzieuz, malheuT'euz, honteu~,soucieuz, etc.In this section, we explained the polyvalency ofmental adjectives.
We are now able to show howthe head distinction is relevant o classify emo-tional states adjectives and explain their semanticselection.4 Semant ic  se lec t ion :  the  case  o femot ion  ad jec t ivesOn the basis on the headedness configuration, wewill distinguish three classes of French emotionadjectives, exemplified in (26), (27) and (28):(26) Ad ject ives  headed on the  state:fdchg 'angry', ennuyg 'bored', irritd 'irri-tated', etc.
(27) Ad ject ives  headed on the agent ive:ennuyan~ 'boring', prdoccupan~ 'worrying',agrdable 'nice', admirable 'wonderful', effroy-able 'appalling', etc.
(28) Headless adject ives:triste 'sad', heureuz 'happy', furieuz 'angry','furious', etc.Those in (26) will have the head on the stateand will get only the stative sense.
As predicted,they will not be able to modify an event or anobject, as illustrated in (29).
(29) *Vn livre f?ch~/ennuy~/irrit~"An angry/bored/irr itated book"The ones in (27) will have the head on the agen-tive and will receive only a causative sense.
As aresult, they will keep this causative sense, evenwhen they modify a noun of type human (30).
(30) Un homme ennuyant/pr6occupant/admirable/effroyable-+ which causes somebody's trouble/anxiety/admiration/frightFinally, those in (28) will not be specified re-garding the head (they are headless) and will beable to combine the three senses (except when thesuffix acts as a filter, as shown in (25)).
They cantherefore modify nouns of type human, objec~ andeveng (5) and will be ambiguous when they modifya noun of type human, as an hmnan can be eitherin a mental state or the object of an experiencingevent (31a,b).
In the case of ambiguity, it is strik-ing to see that French syntax distinguishes clearlythe two senses.
In (31a), it is the prenominal posi-tion of the adjective and in (31c) the choice of the147preposition d (versus de as in (5b)) which give riseto the causative sense (versus the stative one).
(31) a.
De tristes enfants "Sad children to see"--~ which cause the sadness of the personswhich experience themb.
Des enfants tristes "Sad children"which are in a sad statec.
Un homme triste k voir"A sad man to see"which causes the sadness of the per-sons which see himAs a result of this, (32a) (vs. (32b)) will be im-possible: in (32a), the prenominal position of theadjective forces the causative sense, giving rise toan incompatibility as two different nouns (namelyenfant (children) and mort de leur m~ve (death ofthe mother)) try to saturate the same variable y,i.e.
the object of the experiencing.
(32) a.
*De tristes enfants de la mort de leurlnereb.
Des enfants tristes de la mort de leurInereTo finish, notice that in (28), (29) and (30), therole of the suffix appears clearly: for emotion ad-jectives, the -d suffix constrains the head to be onthe state and -anti-able on the causative vent.
Italso explains possible divergences between Frenchand English.5 Conclus ionIn this article, we extended GL to the treatmentof French mental state adjectives.
We showed howGL can adequately account for the following:(a) Avoid ing the  mul t ip l i ca t ion  of  entr ies.The different senses of the mental adjectives(examples (11)to (14))and their polyvalency(examples (3) to (5)) follows from the qualiarepresentation.
(b) Exp la in ing the  links between the dif-fe rent  senses of  menta l  adject ives.
Thequalia structure we proposed in (15) and (16)makes explicit the links between the ditl~rentsenses of mental adjectives (mental state of anindividual, causative and manifestation).
In(15), the qualia structure specifies that emo-tional states are caused by a causal event andcan have a further manifestation; in (16), thatthe agent-oriented state can have a fnrthermanifestation.
(c) Exp la in ing the  semant ic  select ion ofmenta l  s tate  adject ives.
The specific se-mantic selection of mental adjectives followsfrom the headcdness system.
(d) D is t inguish ing two kinds of  adject ives:those which denote simple type (rouge (red),grand (big), etc.)
and those like mental adjec-tives which denote dotted type.
This distinc-tion is in accordance with the classical dis-tinction drawn between stative adjectives anddynamic ones, which, following Quirk et al,1994:434, denote qualities that are thoughtto be subject to control by possessor.
GL al-lows this distinction to be characterized andgiven a more formal representation, an adjec-tive being dynamic if it refers to the cause orits further manifestation.Re ferencesJ.C.
Anscombres (1995) "Morphologie et re-p%sentation ~v~nementielle: Le cas des nomsde sentiment et d'attitude".
In LangucFrangaise 105.M.
Bierwiseh and K.E.
tIeidolph (1979) Progressin Linguistics.
Mouton, The Hague.T.
Briseoe, V. De Paiva and A. Copestake (1993)Default Inheritance in the Lexicon.
CUP, Cam-bridge.W.
Croft (1.984) "Representation f Adverbs, Ad-jectives and Events in Logical Form".
SRI In-ternational Technical Notes 344.W.
Croft (1993) "The Semantics of mentalverbs".
In Pustejovsky (ed).T.
B. Ernst (1984) Towards an Integrated Theoryof Adverb position in English.
Indiana Linguis-tics Club, IndianaP.
Kiparsky and C. Kiparsky (1979) "fact".
InBierwiseh and Heidolph (eds).A.
Lehrer (1990) "Polysemy, conventionality andthe structure of the lexicon".
In Cognitive Lin-guistics 1-2.J.
Pustejovsky (1991) "The Generative Lexicon".In Computational Linguistics 17(1).J.
Pustejovsky (1993) Semantics and the Lexicon.Kluwer, Dordrecht.J.
Pustejovsky and P. Bouillon (1995) "AspeetualCoercion and Logical Polysemy".
In Journal ofSemantics 2.J.
Pustejovsky (1995) The Generative Lexicon.MIT, Cambridge.R.
Quirk, S. Greenbaum, G. Leech; J. Svartvik(1994) A Comprehensive Grammar of the En-glish Language.
Longman, London and NewYork.148
