An ascription-based approach to Speech ActsAbstract:The two principal areas of natural language processingresearch in pragmatics are belief modelling and speechact processing.
Belief modelling is the development oftechniques to represent the mental attitudes of a dia-logue participant.
The latter approach, speech actprocessing, based on speech act theory, involves view-ing dialogue in planning terms.
Utterances in a dia-logue are modelled as steps in a plan whereunderstanding an utterance involves deriving the com-plete plan a speaker is attempting to achieve.
How-ever, previous peech act ba~sed approaches have beenlimited by a reliance upon relatively simplistic beliefmodelling techniques and their relationship to plan-ning and plan recognition.
In particular, such tech-niques assume precomputed nested belief structures.In this paper, we will present an approach to speechact processing based on novel belief modelling tech-niques where nested beliefs are propagated ondemand.1.
IntroductionThe use of simplistic belief models has accompaniedcomplex accounts of speech acts where highly nested beliefsels accompany any speech act.
We believe that by utilisinga more sophisticated view of mental attitudes, asimpler andmore elegant theory of speech acts can be constructed.
Also,as previous work has pointed out (Wilks et al 1991) pastmodels have failed to differentiate explicitly between thespeaker's and hearer's belief sets.
Such a failure causesproblems in dealing with misconceptions and badly formedplans (Pollack, 1990).This paper augments ViewGen, a computer programoriginally developed by Ballim and Wilks (1991) to modelthe beliefs and meta-beliefs of a system using nested beliefstructures.
ViewGen is able to reason about its own andother agent's beliefs using belief ascription and inferencetechniques, The current version of ViewGen is implementedin Quintus Prolog.The structure of this paper is as follows: in Section 2, wereview and discuss previous peech act approaches and theirrepresentation of mental attitudes.
We argue that precom-puted highly nested belief structures aren't necessary.
InSection 3, we describe how ViewGen represents mental atti-tudes and computes nested structures by a process of ascrip-Mark Lee and Yorick WilksDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of SheffieldRegent Court, 211 Portobello StreetSheffield S 1 4DP, UKM.Lee@ dcs.shef.ac.ukY Wilks @ dcs.
shef.
ac.
uktion and in Section 4, show how such techniques can be usedto represent speech acts for use in planning and plan recog-nition.
Finally, in Section 5, we discuss ome implicationsand future directions of our work2.
Speech acts and mental attitudesIt is clear that any understanding of an utterance mustinvolve reference to the attitudes of the speaker.
For exam-ple, the full understanding of the utterance "Do you knowwhere Thomas is?"
depends upon whether the speakeralready knows where Thomas is and whether he or shebelieves the hearer knows.Speech act based AI approaches normally make refer-ence to mental attitudes and often provide links between thesurface form of the utterance and the mental attitudes of boththe speaker and hearer.
For example, Appelt (1985)describes asystem which generates discourse from an inten-sional logic representation f a set of beliefs.
However, aspointed out by Pollack (1990), they have typically used rela-tively simple models of such attitudes.
In particular, previ-ous approaches have lacked any way to model thepropagation of belief within the system itself and insteadhave made use of precomputed and fixed nestings of mentalattitudes.One widely used concept in speech act accounts ismutual belief.
Following work in philosophy by Lewis(1969), Clark and Marshall (1981) introduced the notion ofmutual belief to account for hearer attitudes.
A proposition Pis a mutual belief if shared by two agents A and B such that:A believes PB believes PA believes B believes PB believes A believes Petc., ad infinitumThere cannot be a logical imit to the number of levels ofregression since, as Schiffer (1972) argued, for any level ofnested belief, a dialogue xample can be constructed whichrequires an additional level of belief nesting.
Because of thispotentially infinite regression, ithas proven difficult to usean axiomatic definition of mutual belief based in terms ofsimple belief in computational implementations.
Alternativeapproaches have either avoided efining axioms for mutualbelief, e.g.
Taylor and Whitehill (1981) or defined it as aprimitive operator without reference to simple beliefs, e.g.Cohen and Levesque (1985).699Despite such work, it appears that the mutual beliefhypothesis, i.e.
that agents compute potentially infinite nest-ings of belief in comprehension, appears to be too strong ahypothesis to be realistic.
It is impossible that agents per-form this kind of potentially infinite nesting during real dia-logue and no clear constraint can be given on how manyiterations would be necessary in a real dialogue situation.Though examples can be artificially created which require nlevels of nesting for large n, during a study of dialogue cor-pora, Lee (1994) found no need for highly nested beliefmodels.
In fact, it appears that no dialogue exchangerequired more than a two level belief nesting.
Also, mistakesin assuming what was common to both agents in a dialogueoccurred but were quickly repaired through the use of cor-rections and repetitions and other dialogue control acts.
Sim-ilar results have been reported by Taylor and Carletta (1994)in analysing the HCRC Map Task corpus.Rather than compute nested beliefs to some fixed levelduring comprehension.
It is far more plausible that agentscompute nested representations on so that highly nestedbelief representations areonly constructed if required in thedialogue.
This is the basic principle behind ViewGen.3.
The ViewGen systemViewGen is a nested attitude model which constructsintensional environments to model the attitudes of otheragents.
Previous work on ViewGen has been concerned withonly modelling belief attitudes (Wilks, Barnden and Ballim,1991).
We have extended ViewGen to model and represent,in addition, goals and intentions.
In this section, we brieflydescribe ViewGen's operation.3.1 ViewGen representations ofmentalattitudesViewGen assumes that each agent in a dialogue has abelief environment which includes attitudes about whatother agents believe, want, and intend.
Such attitudes arerepresented ina nested structure.
Each nesting is an environ-ment which contains propositions which may be grouped bya particular topic or stereotype.
The particular topic is givenon the top left corner of the environment while the holder ofa belief is given at the bottom of the environment.ViewGen represents all attitudes in environments withthe attitude type labelled on the far right bottom of the box.Though different attitude types are separated by environ-ments, they can be nested so that agents can have beliefs,goals, and intentions about these attitudes.
For example,suppose the System believes that John intends to buy a car,but wants to convince him otherwise by getting him tobelieve correctly that the car is a wreck.
This is illustrated inFigure 1.In ViewGen, different attitudes have different ypes.Beliefs and goals refer to propositions which the agent eitherbelieves is true or wants to be true at some point in thefuture.
Intentions, however, are represented as connectedplanning actions which represent the plans the agent intendsto pursue to achieve his or her goals.3.2 Ascription of attitudesAs noted above, ViewGen avoids using a concept ofshared or mutual beliefs.
Rather, ViewGen attributes beliefs,goals and intentions toother agents as required.
This processis termed ascription.
There are two methods of ascription:default ascription and stereotypical scription.
Each methodis briefly described below.3.2.1 Default AscriptionDefault ascription applies to common beliefs.
Mostbeliefs in any set held by an agent are common beliefs aboutthe world, and can be assumed to be common to any otherrational agent unless marked otherwise.
For example, anagent may believe that he world is round and therefore,without any evidence, guess that any other agent probablyshares this belief.
To model this, ViewGen uses a defaultascription rule i.e.Default Ascription rule:Given a System belief, ascribe it to any other agent asrequired, unless there is contrary evidence.Such a rule results in beliefs being pushed from outerbelief environments to inner belief environments.
For exam-ple, Figure 2 illustrates ViewGen assuming that John sharesits belief that he world is round.Evidence against ascription isnormally an explicit beliefisa, arWrec ,BeliefGoal/~  buy(John,Car)John IntentionSystem BeliefSystemFigure h Meta-attitudes on other attitudes700JohnSystemround(world)round(world)BeliefBelief - -SystemFigure 2: ViewGen default ascriptionthat an another agent believes the opposite of the ascribedbelief.
For example, an agent might already be believed byViewGen to believe the world is fiat and thus block anyascription of ViewGen's belief.
It is important for ViewGento reason about other agent's beliefs about other agents.
Forexample, it is plausible that an agent who believes the worldis round may well also believe by default hat other agentsbelieve the same.Unlike beliefs, the assumption that other agents haresimilar goals and intentions cannot be made by default.Goals and intentions are more dynamic than beliefs in thatan agent will try to achieve goals and carry out intentions inthe future which once achieved are dropped from the agent'sattitude set.
Also, goals and intentions are often highly stere-otypical.
Therefore, adefault rule of ascription cannot beapplied to such attitudes.
However, acombination of stereo-typical ascription and plan recognition can be used to pro-vide sensible ascriptions of goals and intentions.Stereotypical ascription is discussed next while plan recog-nilion is discussed in 4.3.3.2.2 Stereotypical AscriptionA stereotype is a collection of attitudes which are gener-ally applicable to a particular class of agent.
For example,Doctors tend to have expert medical knowledge and havegoals to diagnose diseases and cure patients.
To model thisViewGen uses a stereotypical ascription rule:Stereotypical Ascription rule:Given a System stereotypical belief ascribe it m anyother agent o which the stereotype appliesas required, unless there is contrary evidence.In ViewGen, stereotypes consist of sets of attitudeswhich an agent who tits a particular stereotype might ypi-cally hold.
Such stereotypical beliefs can be ascribed to anagent by default - i.e.
unless there is explicit evidence thatthe agent holds a contrary belief.
For example, in Figure 3,the System has a stereotypical set of beliefs for doctors and,since it believes John is a doctor, ascribes these to John.4.
Ascription based Speech act rep-resentationIn this section, we will outline our theory of speech acts.In 4.
I, we outline a list of features which we believe any the-ory should possess and in 4.2 we describe a theory based onbelief ascription.4.1 Desideratum for a theory of speechactsWe believe that a theory of speech acts should have atleast he following features:1, The theoly shouM be solipsistThe notion of mutual knowledge was introduced to pro-vide a realistic account of the effects of a speech act on ahearer.
However, as has argued above and elsewhere (Ballimand Wilks, 1991), mutual belief is too strong a notion to beused.
Instead, a theory of speech acLs should be solipsistic inthat it refers olely to finite belief representations of eitherthe speaker or hearer of the dialogue act.~ JohnDoctorisa(pneumonia, bacteria)treatment(bacteria, anti-biotics)isa(pneumonia, bacteria))treatment(bacteria, anti-biotics)Belief lBelief ~Stereotype - -Systemisa(John,Doctor)SystemFigure 3: Stereotypical ascription of medical knowledgeBelief b7012, The theory must provide separate interpretations for thespeaker and hearerA theory must, however, take into account the attitudesof both the speaker and hearer by allowing the separate deri-vation of the effects of a speech act from the speaker's andthe hearer's points of view.3, Speech acts should be minimalisticAny theory should assume only the minimal conditionsfor any utterance to be successful.
This means avoiding theascription of precomputed attitude nestings beyond theessential conditions of each act for the act to be achieved.4, Speech acts should be extendableDespite assuming only the minimal conditions andeffects for any speech act, they should in principle beextendable todeal with problematic examples involvinghigh degrees of belief nesting proposed by work in philoso-phy.5, The theory must provide a means to derive generalisedeffects f~'om each acts conditionsAs argued by Searle (1969), any classification ofspeechacts must be based on the conditions of each act and not itseffects.
However, we also want a principled way to derivethe conventional effects of any act from its conditions.
Thisis necessary so that we can then provide a clear distinctionbetween an act's conventional il ocutionary effect and itscontext-specific perlocutionary effect.We believe that our account of speech acts satisfies theabove criteria.
In the next two sections we will outline howwe represent speech acts in terms of belief ascription andhow we use these in planning and plan recognition.4.2 An ascription based theory of speechactsWe represent 20 different speech acts types in fourclasses: questions, answers, requests and inform acts.
Thisset is partially based on Bunt's taxonomy of 24 speech acts(1989).
While not claiming that such a set of acts is com-plete, we have found it sufficient for the dialogue corpora wehave analysed.
Every act is classified with respect to its pre-conditions which are the mental attitudes a speaker mustadopt o felicitously perform the speech act.
Acts areordered by specificity: more specific speech acts inherit orstrengthen the preconditions of more general ones.
Forexample, an inform act requires that the speaker believes theproposition i question and has a goal that the hearer alsobelieves the proposition, i.e.
:Inform(Speaker, Hearer, Proposition)Preconditions: believe(Speaker, Proposition)goal(Speaker, believe(Hearer, Proposition)A correction act is a more specific type of informingand, therefore, inherits the preconditions of informing plusthe condition that the speaker believes that the hearerbelieves the opposition of the proposition, i.e.
:Correction(Speaker, Hearer, Proposition)Preconditions: believe(Speaker,Proposition)goal(Speaker, believe(Hearer, Proposition)believe(Speaker, believe(Hearer,not(Proposition)))Rather than specify individual effects for each dialogueact, we provide separate update rules based on belief ascrip-tion.
Our update rule from the speaker's point of view is:Update on ~h?
Sneaker's belief setFor every condition C in dialogue act performed:default_ascribe(Speaker, H arer, believe(C))That is, for every condition in the speech act, the speakermust ascribe abelief to the hearer that the condition is satis-fied.
For example, Figure 4 shows the conditions for aninform act: the speaker believes the proposition to be com-municated and wants the hearer to believe it too.
To achievethis goal, the speaker intends to use an inform speech act.After performing the inform act, the speaker can ascribe tothe hearer the belief that each of the preconditions were meti.e.
the speaker believes that the hearer believes the speakerbelieves the proposition and has the goal of getting thehearer to believe it too.
The effects of the inform act on thespeaker's attitude set are shown in Figure 5.
Note that afterthe inform act is performed, the intention to perform it isdropped.
However, the speaker's goal of getting the hearerto believe the proposition remains.
This is because weassume only the minimal conditions for the act to be suc-cessful i.e.
if the speaker can successfully ascribe achspeech act precondition tothe hearer.
For the hearer tobelieve the proposition, he or she has to perform a mentalL Speaker in form(Speaker, Hearer, on(coffee,stove)) Intention -~ L on(coffee, stove) _~Hearer BeliefSpeaker Goalon(coffee, stove)Speaker BeliefSpeakerFigure 4: Representation f a speaker's attitudes before performing an inform actJJ702~\[~ on(coffee, stove) B e ~efal_~lHearerSpeaker Speaker on(coffee, stove) Belief~~i i i !
!
!
on(coffee, stove) ~\ ]Belief --on(coffee, stove)- -  Speaker BeliefSpeakerFigure 5: Representation of aspeaker's attitudes after perfin'ming an inform actact.
Mental acts are detailed in the next section.
The updaterule for the heater is the converse of the speaker's:Update on the He.arer's belie, f setFor every condition C in dialogue act performed:default ascribe(Hearer;Speaker, C)That is, given that he speaker has performed an infolxnact, the hearer can ascribe to the speaker the preconditions ofthe inform act assuming that he speaker isbeing coopera-tive.
The effects of the inform act are shown in Figure 6.Note that he bearer's update rule is one level ess nested: thepreconditions rather than beliefs about he preconditions areascribed.4.3 Planning and plan simulation in nestedbelief environmentsViewGen uses a non-linear POCL planner (McAllesterand Rosenblatt, 1991) to plan actions to achieve goals.
Sucha planner is provably correct and complete so that it is guar-anteed to find a solution if one exists and only generatesvalid sohttions.Since ViewGen represents the attitudes of agents innested environments, i  is able to use the planner to simulateother agent's planning.
This simulation can be applied to anydepth of nested belief e.g.
ViewGen can simulate John simu-lating Mary generating a plan to achieve agiven goal byconsidering its beliefs of John's beliefs of Mary's beliefs,goals and intentions.Which plan is constructed depends on what the nestedagent is believed to believe.
Therefore, during nested plan-ning, ViewGen has to reason about which beliefs are held tobe true at that level of nesting.
However, as mentionedabove, belief a~ription only is performed as requited: wecannot predict which beliefs will be relevant to a plan beforethe plan is constructed and therefore, aseription must be per-formed as the plan is generated.
Toachieve this, both types~ ~ Hearer.Speaker~ Speakeron(coffee, stove) ~~on(coffee, stove)Belief--Hea~rHea~rBelief - -Figure 6: Representation of abearer's attitudes after an inform act703of ascription are represented in plan operator notation asmental acts.
For example, default belief ascription asdetailed in section 3.2.1 is represented as:Default_belief_ascription(Agentl, Agent2, Proposition)Preconditions: belief(Agentl, Proposition)belief(Agentl, not(belief(Agent2,not(Proposition))))Effects: belief(Agentl, belief(Agent2, Proposition))In addition to pushing outer nested beliefs into innerenvironments, we require amethod of adopting other agent'sbeliefs by pushing inner nested beliefs into outer environ-ments.
For this, we have an accept-belief operator:Accept belief(Agent 1, Agent2, Proposition)Preconditions: belief(Agentl, belief(Agent2, Proposition)',not(belief(Agent 1, not(Proposition)))belief(Agent 1,trustworthy(Agent2))Effects: belief(Agentl,Proposition)That is, if an Agent2 has some belief and Agentl doesn'thold a contrary belief and believes that Agent2 is trustwor-thy, then it is acceptable for Agentl to also believe Agent2'sbelief.
This plays a role in informing where a hearer mustdecide whether or not to believe the communicated proposi-tion.During planning, plans are constructed based on thebeliefs, goals and intentions which are explicitly present atthat level of nesting.
However, if a proposition isn't repre-sented at this level of nesting, then the POCL planner mustplan ascription actions to determine whether the simulatedagent holds the relevant attitude.
Therefore, simulated plan-ning involves two types of planning: planning by the agentsimulated and planning by ViewGen itself to maintain itsbelief representation f the agent.In addition to plan simulation, we have extended thebasic POCL algorithm to allow other agent's plans to be rec-ognised.
This involves inferring from an agent's performedaction, the agent's et of goals he or she is trying to achieveand the plan he or she intends to follow to achieve thesegoals.
This is achieved by collecting together the ascribablegoals at the particular level of nesting and attempting tofinda plan which achieves at least one of the ascribable goals.Once a plan is generated, any goals achieved by the plan areascribed.In both simulation and recognition, once an acceptableplan is generated, the actions and goals in the plan areascribed to the agent at that level of nesting.5.
Conclusions and future workWe have argued that the computation ofhighly nestedbelief structures during the performance orrecognition of aspeech act is implausible.
In particular, the concept ofmutual belief seems too strong.
Instead, we have put forwarda theory of speech acts where only the minimal set of beliefsis ascribed at the time of the utterance.
If further belief nest-ings are required then they can be derived using beliefascription techniques as required.We believe that, for the most part, during normal dia-logue, the minimal effects of any speech act are all that arerequired.
However, our approach allows highly nested beliefstructures to be computed on demand if required, for exam-ple, to understand non-conventional l nguage use.Future work includes the attachment ofa robust dia-logue parser.
We also intend to link ViewGen to the LaSieinformation extraction platform (Gaizaukas et al 1995) soas to develop atestable belief set empirically derived from asmall medical domain corpus.ReferencesD.
Appelt.
(1985) Planning English Sentences.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge.A.
Ballim and Y. Wilks (1991).
Artificial Believers.
Law-rence Erlbaum Associates, Hillsdale, New Jersey.H.C.
Bunt (1989).
Information dialogues as communicativeaction in relation to partner modelling and informationprocessing.
In M.M.
Taylor, E Neel, and D.G.
Bouwhuis,editors, The Structure of Multimodal Dialogue.
Elsevier Sci-ence Publishers, North Holland.H.
Clark and C. Marshall (1981).
Definite reference andmutual knowledge.
In A. Joshi, B. Webber, and I.
Sag, edi-tors, Elements of Discourse Understanding, pages 10 - 62.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK.ER.
Cohen and H. Levesque (1985).
Speech acts and ration-ality.
In Proceedings of the 23erd Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics.
University ofChicago Press.R.
Gaizauskas, T. Wakao, K. Humphreys, H. Cunningham,and Y. Wilks (1995).
University of sheffield: Description oflasie system as used.
In Proceedings of the Sixth MessageUnderstanding Conference (MUC-6), Columbia, Maryland.Morgan Kaufman Publishers Inc.M.
Lee (1994).
Conjunctive goals as a cause of conversa-tional implicature.
Technical Report 94-10-05, Dept.
ofComputer Science, University of Sheffield.D.K.
Lewis (1969).
Convention.
Harvard University Press,Cambridge, Mass.D.A.
McAllester and D. Rosenblatt (1990).
Systematic non-linear planning.
In Proceedings of AAAI90, pages 634~639.M.E.
Pollack (1990) Plans as complex mental attitudes.
InER.
Cohon, J. Morgan, and M.E.
Pollack, editors, Intentionsin Communication.
Bradford/MIT press, Cambridge, Mass.S Schiffer (1972).
Meaning.
Clarendon Press, Oxford.J.R.
Searle (1969) Speech acts.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge.G.B.
Taylor and S.B.
Whitehill (1981).
A belief representa-tion for understanding deception.
In Proceeding oflJCAl-81, pages 475-479, Los Altos, CA.J.
Taylor and J. Carletta (1994).
Limiting nested beliefs incooperative dialogue.
In A. Ram and K. Eiselt, editors, Pro-ceedings of the 16th annual conference ofthe cognitive sci-ence society, pages 858-863, Hillsdale, New Jersey.Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.Y.
Wilks, J. Barnden, and A. Ballim (1991).
Belief ascrip-tion, metaphor and intensional identity.
Cognitive Science,15(1).704
