Anaphor Resolut ion and the Scope of Syntactic ConstraintsRo land  StuckardtGerman Nat iona l  Research  Center  for In fo rmat ion  Techno logy  (GMD)K( )NTEXT - Natura l  Language SystemsDol ivostraf ie  15, D-64293 Darmstadt ,  Germanystuckar( l (o)darmst adt  .grad.deAbst ractAn anal)hor esolution algorithm is pre-sented which relies on a combination ofstrategies for narrowing down and select-ing ti'om antecedent sets fl)r reflexive pro-nouns, nonreflexive pronom~s, and com-mon 11011118.
~lqle work focuses on syn-tactic restrictions which are derived froinChomsky's Binding Theory.
It is dis-cussed how these constraints can be in-corporated adequately in an anaphor es-olution algorithm.
Moreover, by showingthat t)ragmatic inferences may t)e neces-sary, the limits of syntactic restrictionsare ehleidated.1 In t roduct ionIt is by now widely agreed upon that tile process ofresolving anaphors in natural anguage text is sup-ported by a w~riety of strategies employing differ-ent kinds of knowledge.
The t)rocess of determin-in9 the set of possible antecedents i  governe, d bymorphosyntactic, syntactic, semantic, and prag-Inatic restrictions.
The same holds for preferencesapplie, d in the antecedent selection process: simplesurface criteria are involved as well as more elab-orate syntactic, semantic, or focusing heuristics.As a consequence, recent approaches to anaphorresolution apply a careflflly selected blend of con-straints and preferences, thus constituting Inulti-strategy approaches in the sense of Carbonell andBrown (Carbonell and Brown, 1988).There are, however, implementability limita-tions.
At discourse level, determining the set ofadmissible antecedents requires a representationwhich is ordered according to pragmatic relations(Grosz and Sidner, 1986; Wehber, 1989).
Al-though various theoretical frmneworks have beensuggested, the recognition of these relations inthe case of unrestricted iscourse is still beyondthe state-of the-art.
Moreover, there arc cases illwhich antecedent decisions can only be made onthe grounds of domain knowledge and inferencing,and although there have been various attempts tointegrate components of these kinds into anaphorresolution approaches, a satisfying solution l;o thisproblem is not available by now.As a conseqllence, c/ l rrent anaphor resolutionimplementations rely oil constraints and prefer-ence heuristics which employ information origi-nating from morphosyntactic, syntactic, or shal-low semmltic analysis (of.
(Carter, 1987)).
Theseapproaches, however, perform remarkably well.An early case study revealed that a 'naive' algo-rithm for resolving nonre\[texive pronouns, by re-lying merely on morphosyntactic, syntactic, andsurface criteria, yields correct results for morethan 80 percent of pronoun occurrences, and thattile incorporation of selectional constraints re-suits in a gain of another 3.5 percent of accuracy(Hobbs, 1978).
These results have been confirmedby recent work (Lappin and Leass, 1994).
The lat-ter approach is based on a more elaborate, theory-oriented, declarative, forlnulation of the syntacticconstraints, and handles reflexive pronouns too.
Itproved that the incorporation of statistically mea-sured lexical preference patterns (a dynamic, do-main specific suhstitute R)r the static encoding ofsele('tional t)references) yields a gain of only 3 pe.rcent, and a sol(; application of lexical preferencet)atterns resulted in a performance below 35 percent.
Hence, there is strong evidence that syntac-tic restrictions in combination with surface basedand syntactic prefe, rence criteria play the centralrole in realistic approaches to anaphor esolution.In this I)aper, an anaI)hor esolution algorithinis described which has t)een implemented as partof the KONTEXT text analysis system for theGerman language (Haenelt, 1994).
The empha-sis lies on the description of imt)lementation tech-niques for syntactic onstraints.
Section 2 worksout strategies whi(:h are applied, focusing on the937theoretical background from which the syntacticconstraints emerge.
Section 3 describes how thesestrategies are coined into an algorithm for the res-olution of reflexives, nonreflexive pronouns, anddefinite common nouns, thereby elucidating de-tails which have to be taken into account in an ad-equate implenmntation.
In section 4, a theoreticalevaluation is performed, and application resultsare given.
Section 5 points out that the structuralconstraints may depend on circumstances whichare not a matter of syntax alone, but rather ne-cessitate semantic and pragmatic infereneing.
Asa consequence, limitations concerning the imple-mentability show up, and the scope of syntacticconstraints proves to be restricted.2 Const ra in ts  and Pre ferences2.1 Morphosyntactic AgreementA quite strict constraint requires the pronoun toagree with its antecedent in person, number, andgender.
In example 1(1) The father visited his daughter.She had invited him on Sunday.the antecedents for hint and size are identifieduniquely as father and daughter', respectively.2.2 Syntactic ConstraintsThe following data substantiate the syntactic re-strictions which are to be employed:(2a) The barbe~ shaves hirnselfi.
(2b) * The clienti appreciatesthat the barbcr shaves himselfi.These examples uggest that reflexive pronounschoose their antecedents in some kind of local do-main.
On the other hand, examples(3a) * The barberi shaves himi.
(3b) The elienti appreciatesthat the barber shaves himi.indicate that the admissible structural positionsof antecedents for nonretiexive pronouns are dis-tributed complementarily, i.e.
these pronounschoose their antecedents outside of their local do-main.
An even more stringent restriction holdsfor nonpronominal nouns:(/ta) * The barber) shaves the barberi.
(~b) * The client,i appreciatesthat the barber sttaves the clicnt,i.But even here, configurations exist in which in-trasentential ntecedents are possible:*The examples are given in English.
The phenom-ena and its implications translate directly to German.
(4c) The barber who shaved the clientitold the elienti a story.Ctlomsky provides a formal description of theseobservations as part of his Government and Bind-lug (GB) Theory (Chomsky, 1981; Chomsky,1986).
Binding Theory (BT) distinguishes threetypes of NP, namely type A ('anaphor', compris-ing reflexives and reciprocals2), type B (nonreflex-ire pronouns), and type C ('referring' expressions,comprising common nouns and names).
The re-strictions are stated as binding principles:Definition 1 (binding principles)(A) An anaphor is bound in its binding category.
(B) A pronominal is free (i.e.
not bound) in itsbinding category.
(C) A referring expression is free (i.e.
not bound)in any domain.where binds is a relation which is defined on theNP nodes of the (surface) phrase structure tree:Definition 2 (the binding relation) Node Xbinds Node Y if and only if X and Y arc coin-dexed and X e-commands Y.where (definitions vary slightly):Definition 3 (the c-command relation)Node X e-commands node Y if and only if the nextb~nnehing node which dominates X also dominatesY and neither X dominates Y, Y dominates X norX=Y.The central part of the Binding Theory developsthe notion of local domain to which binding prin-ciples A, B, and C refer as binding category:Definition 4 (binding category) Node X isbinding category of node Y if and only if X is thenext node which dominates Y, and which containsa subject that e-commands Y.Due to these definitions, the acceptability judge-ments for the data presented above are reproducedby binding principles A, B, and C. For each exam-ple, the subject demarcating the (local) bindingcategory is just the ordinary subject of the subor-dinate clause.
(One has to recall that, in phrasestructure trees, the subject c-commands the con-tent of the VP.)
The notion of subject, however,is a more general one, applying also to some kindsof nominal phrase attributes, in particular certainvariations of genitives and possessives:(,5) Peter listens to Sam'si story about himself.2In this paper, the notion of anaphor is used moregenerally.
When referring to anaphor in the Chom~skyan sense, the notion reflexive/reciprocal (pronoun)is used.9382.3 Antecedent Predictabi l ityFor eataphorie pronominal resumptions, a con-straint is applied which has l)een described l)yKuno (Kuno, 1987).
According to(6@ The barber who shaved himitold the: client| a story.
(6b) * The barber who shaved him|told a clienti a story.a dcJiniteness requirement has to be fulfilled, rul-ing out antecedents which are not predictable, i.e.not a.lready introduc, ed in the.
discourse?2.4 Case Role I ner t iain g(meral, the constraint applicatioil will not sin-gle out a uifique antecedent.
Depending on thetyl)e of anaphor to be resolved, preferenc(,s areapplied, coinprising the rather superficial and self-exf)lanatory criteria of recen(:y, cataphor penalty,and sul)ject preference.
The case role inertia cri-terion, which proved to/)e very useful in practice,is explainal)h; by the following e?amt)le:(7) Peter visited his brvther.lte showed him his ne'.w car.Unless given further information, there see, ms toI)e a strong tendency to choose the antecedentsin a way that the, syntactic and/or semantic aseroles of the pronouns re, produce the correspond-ing roles of the, it antecedents.
Thus, the pre, fer-ence rule suggests Peter as the, ~mtecedent for lie,and brother as the antecedent for him.
As can t)edemonstrated by fllrth(,'r e, xamples (e.g.
changingfrom active, to passive voice or vice versa), retain-ing the semanti(: case role should outvote retainingthe synta(:tic (:as(; role.
In cases in whi(:h semantic(:ase is not available, however, promoting syntactic(:as(', t)arallelism serves as a good at)proximal|on.In its effect, this prefl;rence rule al)proximat(;sthe' often suggested heuristic of ke, eping ratherthen shifting ret?
;rential focus (of.
(Sidner, 1983)).3 Towards  the  A lgor i thmThe lnaill question concerns the adequate imple-mentation of Chomsky's I)inding t)rinciples.
Somea l)riori remarks on theoretic subtM;ies and on theeml)loyed ret)resentation are in t)lace.3.1 lnterdei)endency Sensi t ivenessAs state(l t)y (Correa, 1988), an immediate imI)le-men|at|on of th(; constraints proposed in BindingTheory is unlbasil)le.
Chomsky states, merely as athe()rctical device, a flee, inclexing rule wlfich ran-(lomly assigns reference in(lexes to surface struc-ture NP nodes.
During inapt)lug to the seinanti(:LF (logical form) representation, the t)inding prin-ciples s()~'ve as restrictions tbr filtering out the imdex distributions which are considered valid whenintert)re, ted as eorefL'rence markers.
A direct im-l)leme, ntation of this generate-~md-test 1)ro(:edureyields an exponential time complexity.Current approaches avoid gen('rate-and-te~st |)yresorting to different strategies.
According to 1;11(;most colnmon tectmiquc, for anat)horic NPs, aseparate antecedent search is t)ertbrmed, resultingin a quadratic time complexity (e.g.
(Hot)bs, 1978;Strube and Hahn, 1995)).
Because, howev(;r, theante(:edent decisions are performed in isolation,invalid index distributions may m'ise.
In examph;(Sa) The barbcri told the elientj a story,while hek shaved himl.neither of the t)ronouns is confined structurally toone of the intrasenttmtial ntece.
(lent eandi(tates int ie  matrix clause.
But, afl, e ra  first decision, e.g.
(Sb) The barberi told the clientj a story,while he| shaved himz.the situation changes, for one of the antect;dentoptions of the still unresolved l)ronoun is no longeravailable.
Binding principle B may bc violat(.
'd:(8c) * The barberi told the.
clientj a story,while he| shaved him|.An interdepemlen(:y 1)el;we(;it antecedent; choi(:esmay arise as well when choosing/)etween discourseal l tece( le i l tS~ OF as  a COllSeqll(;llc( ~, ()f relative, clauseattachment, which 1)redetermines coindexing.The at)proach presented below is sealsitive tothese, decision interdependencies, while avoidingthe exponential time comi)lexity of an immedLate l)inding constraint implem(mtatioil.
This isachieved by supplementing the straightforward se,-quential strategy with a dynamic reveritication ofthe binding restrictions in the antecedent selectionstet).
To avoid that (te.sirable antecedent optionsare ruled out l)y interdependency, the choices wil;hhighest plausibility is given preference to.3.2 Representing Surihce StructureThe original statement of Binding Theory formspart of GB Theory, in which a broader set <)1' in:tera<:ting l)rin(:iph~s is f<)rmulated.
Because theaim of aimi)hor resolution for a specific languageis restricted, the reI)resentation (:an be simplifiexl.Complicating details which result fl'om the Gllclaim to mfiversality may t)e emil;ted.lies|des being efficiently searchable, the simpli-fied surface structure has to represent the stru(:-t;ural details wtfich are necessary for th(,' verifica-.tion of the 1)in(ling restrictions.
In particular, this939comprises ubject-object-asymmetry, the demar-cation of local domains, and surf.ace order depen-dent structural variations 3.Because the KONTEXT text analysis ystem isbased on a dependency grammar, a mapping pro-cess generates the required representation froma dependency trees which is not suitable for astructural verification of the binding principles,because vital details are not structurally visible.The attempt of directly Verifying BT restrictionson dependency structure, as suggested by Strubeand Hahn (Strube and Hahn, 1995), does not seemadequate, because important details are ignored.The structures which were generated for someof the above examples are as follows: 4(ga) (S barber (VP himself)) -+ (2a)(gb) client(VP (STHAT barber (VP him)))) -+(3b)(9c) (S barber (SREL who (VP client))(VP client (VP story))) -+(4c)The marker nodes STHAT and SREL are delim-iters of local domains, to which the binding prin-ciple verification functions are sensitive.Special techniques are employed in representinglocal NP domains, which are introduced by de-verbative NPs and NPs with possessive markers(saxonian genitive, genitivus possessivus, posses-sive pronoun, or certain attributive PPs), e.g.
(10) The barber hears hisi story about himselfi.
(S barber(VP storyj(SVATT x_storyj(ATT his (ATT (PP himself)...)A domain SVATT enforcing local reflexivation isopened.
The NP barber and the reflexive pronounhimself may be coindexed only indirectly via thepossessive pronoun his, which is of type B, andhence forced to take a nonlocal antecedent.
Inaccordance with intuitive judgement, a local in-stance of the NP storyj blocks the eoindexing ofthe possessivc pronoun and its dominating noun.Here again, the mechanism which copes with in-terdependencics is appliedfi Technically, new NPtypes C' (example (10)) and B' (relative pronoun,3This concerns certain cases of subject and ob-ject clause extraposition as well as, in particular, theobject NPs contained in the VP, for which a rightbranching structure is generated, yielding a base fora structural determination of admissible antecedentsfor reflexive pronouns, which is mainly governed bysubject-object asymmetry and surface order.4Implementation details are ignored.5This technique resembles the use of traces inChomsky's GB theory.
Because of its restricted aim,however, it is nmch simpler.cf.
section 3.1) are introduced for which bindingprinciples C and B are verified, respectively, butfor which no antecedent search is performed.3.3 The Algor i thmThe KONTEXT anaphor esolution algorithm, asshown in figure 1, consists of three phases: con-straint application, preference criteria applicationand plausibility sorting, and antecedent selectionincluding reverification of constraints which maybe involved in decision interdependencies.Two binding constraint verification proceduresare employed which differ in the handling of typeA NPs.
According to binding principle A, a re-flexive pronoun requires 'constructively' a localantecedent (step l(b)i).
Example (10), however,illustrates that further nonloeal coindexings areadmissible.
This gives rise to a weak version ofbinding constraint verification, the usage of whichis of vital importance to the fimctioning of theinterdependency test step 3b.4 Evaluat ionAs a proper base for comparison, the theoreti-cal analysis is restricted to the contribution of in-trasentential ntecedent search.
Let n be the num-ber of NP nodes in the surface structure represen-tation.
Because the number of anaphoric NPs andintrasentential candidates is bounded by n, andthe individual a priori verifications of the bind-ing principles contribute costs proportional to thenumber of nodes in the surface structure tree, theworst case time complexity of step 1 is O(n3).
Asimilar analysis, assuming a clever handling whichprevents individual interdependency hecks frombeing done more then once, reveals that the com-plexity of step 3 is O(n 3) too.
Therefore, sincethe scoring and sorting step 2 does not exceed thislimit, the overall worst case complexity is O(n3).In tests on architect biographies drawn from(Lampugnani, 1983), the algorithm correctly re-solved approximately 90 per cent of type B pro-nouns (including possessives), and, as expected,all occurrences of reflexives, which occur quitescarcely in the test corpus.
The set of possibleantecedents tends to be reduced rastically duringconstraint application.
Interdependency collisionsdid not happen too frequent.
This tendency isstrongly supported by the case role inertia heuris-tic, which promotes a complementary distributionof preferred antecedents for type B pronouns cooc-curring in a domain of binding.The strategy of considering the more plausibleantecedent choices first does not eliminate inter-dependency collisions in general, and, moreover,9401.
For each anaphoric NP Y, determine the set of possible antecedents X:(a) Verify morphosyntactic or lexical agreement with X (congruence in person, number, and gender,lexical recurrence ete, depending on the type of Y)(b) If the antecedent candidate X is intru.sentential, check whether the binding l)rinciples of Y and Xare satisfied: for the proposed eoindexing,i.
verify that the binding principle of Y is satisfied constructively,ii.
verify that the binding principle of X is not violated.
(c) If Y is a type B 1)ronoun, antecedent candidate X is intr~scntential, nd, according to surfa(:eorder, X follows Y (i.e.
tit(.'
resumption would be cataphorie), verify that X is definite.2.
Plausibility scoring and sorting:(a) For each surviving pair (Y/, A~) of anaphor and antecedent candidate: deterinine the munericalplausibility score v(Y/, Xj), which ranks Xj relatively to Y/, based on case role inertia, recency,cataphor penalty, and subject prefe.rence, deI)ending on the type of I~.
(b) (local sorting) For each anai)hor Y: sort their individual antecedent cm, didates Xj according todecreasing plausibility v(Y, X a ).
(c) (global sorting) Sort the anaphors V according to decreasing I)lausibility of their individual bestantecedent candidate.Antecedent Selection: Consider anaphors Y in the order determined in step 2c.
Suggest antecedentcandidates X(Y) in the order determined in step 213.
Select X(Y) as candidate if there is no interde-pendency, i.e.
if(a) the morphosyntactic featmes of Y and X(Y) are still compatible%(b) for each NP Z whose coindexing with X(Y) has been determined in the current invocation ofthe anaphor esolution algorithm: the coindexing of Y anti Z which results as a side effect whenchosing X(Y) as antecedent for Y does not violate the binding 1)rincil)les.To allow for m, efficient detection of intex(let)endencies , store the selected antecedent separately fl'omcorefercnt occurrences contributed by earlier invocations of the algorithm.Figure \]: The KONTEXT Anaphor Resolution Algorithm3.does not guarantee that the global maximum ofplausibility is reached.
Because of its practicalperformance, however, it proved to be a satisfac-tory substitute for the generate-and-test strategy.5 Exploring the LimitsThe determination of the substructure describinga local domain iv not always easy.
Whereas forNPs with possessive markers (of.
example (10))the matter tends to be clear, a common source ofdifficulties emerges from adjectivally used partici-ples and from deverbative NPs.
In the latter case,e.g.
a genitival attribute may instantiate, depend-lug on the NP, either the subject (.qenitiwts ub-jectivus) or the object (.qenitiwts objectivus) (forGerman, cf.
(Teubert, 1979)).
As the followingexaml)les demonstrate, it iv insufficient o knowmerely about the existence of a h)cal domain.
Ingeneral, it is necessary to determine the instantia=tion of its participants, but this, at least in certain<:ases, involves pragmatic inferencing.
( l la) Pauli accepts the decision for himi.
(l lb) * Pauli accepts the decision for himselfi.According to accet)tability judgements, decisionintroduces a local binding domain.
But a change6In German, this kind of interdependency mayarise, due to lnorphosyntactic ambiguity, in case ofmultiple occurrences of the pronoun sic.of tile matrix clause verb leads to a different judge-ment, while tile syntactic structure is preserved:(12a) Pauli revises the decision for himi.
(12b) Pauli rcviscs the decision for himselfi.The clue lies in the observation that a pragmaticrestriction is governing the instantiation of theimplicit local subject in exmnples (11), but notin examples (12).
in (11@, duc to the obviousconclusioil that someone who accepts an action isnot the conscious actor of it, .Paul is pragmati-(:ally ruled out as the local subject of the decisiondomain.
On the other hand, revise leaves openwhether Paul or someone lse is the decider.
Thisexplanation is confirmed by the following data:(13a) Paull revises Sarn'sj decision for h, imi.
(13b) * Pauli revises Sam 'sj decision fi)r himselfi .
(13e) *Pauli revises hisi decision for himi.
(13d) Pauli revises hisi decision for himselfi.Current approaches (Strube and Hahn, 1995; Lap-pin amt Leass, 1994) ignore this subtlety bymerely taking into account NP domains Which areestablished by possessive determiners.
As a con-sequence, wrong results may be obtained, e.g.
incase of example (l la), as there is no t)ossessivemodifier, Paul will not be considered to be an mt-tecedent candidate for him.
With these difficultiesin mind, questionable antecedent decisions may t)e941marked as depending on particular local instanti-ations, by this means providing a starting pointfor more comprehensive considerations which takeinto account he relation between structural re-strictions and the resolution of ellipsis.6 Conc lus ionStarting with a recapitulation of current work onanaphor resolution, it was argued for an approachwhich bases on syntactic restrictions.The original formulation of Chomsky's BindingTheory proved to be unsuitable for immediate im-plementation.
Straightforward approaches mayfail in cases in which interdependencies b tweenantecedent decisions arise.
Based on this observa-tion, an algorithm has been presented which, onthe one hand, is interdependency-sensitive, but,on the other hand, avoids computational unfeasi-bility l)y following a strategy according to whichthe choices with the highest plausibility are con-sidered first.
For each decision, its dynamic om-patibility with the earlier (more plausible) deci-.sions is verified.
The practical behaviour of thealgorithm fulfilled the expectations.There are, however, limitations to the scope ofsyntactic onstraints.
It has been demonstratedthat, in general, the construction of appropriaterepresentations for binding domains may necessi-tate semantic or pragmatic inferencing.A topic which should be subject of further e-search is the interdependency between parse treeconstruction and anaphor esolution.
Up to now,it has been assumed tacitly that, at the time ofbinding constraint application, the surface struc-ture representation is available.
The constructionof this representation involves disambiguation de-cisions (relative clause attachment, prepositionalphrase attachment, and uncertainty of syntacticflmction), which, due to their structure determin-ing effects, may interfere with the antecedent op-tions of anaphor resolution (cf.
(Stuckardt, 1996)).At current, the KONTEXT text analysis ystememploys a processing model according to whichparsing is performed prior to anaphor esolution.Because of the interdependency between parsingand anaphor esolution, however, these two prob-lem (:lasses hould be handled at one stage of pro-cessing rather than sequentially.ReferencesJaimc G. Carbonell, Ralf D. Brown.
1988.
Ana-phora Resolution: A Multi-Strategy Approach.In: Proc.
I2th Int.
Conf.
on ComputationalLinguistics, COLING, Vol.
I, 96-101, Budapest.David Carter.
1987.
Interpreting Anaphors inNatural Language Texts.
Ellis Horwood Seriesin Artificial Intelligence, Chichester.Noam Chomsky.
1981.
Lectures on Governmentand Binding.
Foris Publications, Dordrecht.Noam Choinsky.
1986.
Knowledge of Language.Praeger, New York.Nelson Correa.
1988.
A Binding Rule \]or Go-vernment-binding Parsing.
In: Proc.
12th Int.Conf.
on Computational Linguistics, COLING,Vol.
I, 123-129, Budapest.Barbara J. Grosz, Candace L. Sidner.
1986.
At-tention, intention and the Structure of Dis-course, in: Computational Linguistics, Vol.
12,Number 3, 175-204.Karin Haenelt.
1994.
Das TextanalysesystemKONTEXT.
Konzcption und AnwendungsmSg~lichkciten.
In: Sprache und Datcnvcrarbeitung,18, 1, 17-31, 1994.Jerry Hobbs.
1978.
Resolving Pronoun Refer-enccs.
In: Lingua, 44,311-338.Susmnu Kuno.
1987.
Anapho~t and DiscoursePrinciples.
In: Makoto Nagao (ed).
Languageand Artificial Intelligence.
Elsevier, 1987.Vittorio M. Lampugnani (ed).
1983.
Lexikonder Architektur des 20. ,Iahrhundcrts.
Hatje,Stuttgart.Shalom Lappin and Herbert J. Lea~s.
1994.
AnAlgorithm for P~vnominal Anaphora Resolu-tion.
In: Computational Linguistics, 20 (4),535-561.Candace L. Sidner.
1983 I,bcusing in the Com-prehension of Definite Anaphora.
In: MichaelBrady, Robert C. Berwick (eds).
ComputationalModels of Discourse.
M.I.T.
Press, Cambridge,MA, 267-330.Michael Strube, Udo Hahn.
1995.
ParscTalkabout Sentence- and Text-Level Anaphora.
In:Proc.
~th Conf.
of the European Chapter ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics,EACL, 237-244.
Dublin, March 28-31, 1995.Roland Stucl~trdt.
1996.
An Interdependency-Sensitive Approach to Anaphor Resolution.
Toappear in: Proc.
of DAARCg6 - DiscourseAnaphora and Anaphor Resolu, tion Colloquium,.Lancaster University, 17-18th July, 1996.Wolfgang Teubert.
1979.
Valenz des Sub-stantivs.
Attributive Ergiinzungen nd Angaben.P~idagogischer Verlag Schwann.Bonnie L. Webber.
1989.
Deictic Reference andDiscourse Structure.
Department of Computerand Information Science, University of Pennsyl-vania, Philadelphia PA 19104-6389.942
