Goa l  Formulat ion  based  on Communicat ive  P r inc ip lesKr is t i ina  Jokinen*Computat iona l  L ingu is t i cs  LaboratoryGraduate  School  of  In fo rmat ion  ScienceNara  Ins t i tu te  of  Sc ience and  Techno logy8916-5 Takayama,  Ikoma,  Nara630-01 JAPANkr i s~ is .a i s t -nara .ac .
jpAbstractThe paper presents the ConstructiveDialogue Model as a new approach toformulate system goals in intelligent di-alogue systems.
The departure pointis in general communicative principleswhich constrain cooperative and coher-ent communication.
Dialogue partici-pants are engaged in a cooperative taskwhereby a model of the joint purpose isconstructed.
Contributions are plannedas reactions to the changing context,and no dialogue grammar is needed.Also speech act classification is aban-doned, in favour of contextual reasoningand rationality considerations.1 IntroductionTwo general approaches can be distinguished indialogue management: the structural approach,which uses a dialogue grammar to capture regu-larities of the dialogue in terms of exchanges andmoves (Bilange, 1992; Cawsey, 1993; Grosz andSidner, 1986), and the intention-based approach,which classifies the speaker's beliefs and intentionsinto speech acts, and uses planning operators todescribe them (Appel% 1985; Allen and Perrault,1980; Bunt et al, 1984).
Both regard natural an-guage as purposeful behaviour, but differ in howthis behaviour is to be described.
The former seesdialogues as products and compiles participants'beliefs and intentions into a predefined ialoguestructure, whereas the latter focusses on the par-ticipants' goals, and hides the structure in the re-lations between acts which contain appropriatelychosen sets of beliefs and intentions as their pre-conditions and effects.We will not go into detailed evaluation of theapproaches, ee e.g.
(Jokinen, 1994), but draw at-tention to three aspects of dialogues which have*I am grateful to Yuji Matsumoto for providing anexcellent resem'ch environment during my JSPS Post-doctoral Fellowship, and Graham Wilcock for helpfuldiscussions.not been properly addressed before, althoughwidely acknowledged in literature, and importantin building robust Natural Language interfaces:1. dialogue is a collaborative process and itsstructure is recognised by external observa-tion, not prescribed as an internal constraintof dialogue management (Sacks et al, 1974;Clark and Wilkes-Gibbs, 1990),2. the speakers' beliefs and intentions in a givendialogue situation are various, and cannot allbe checked when deciding oil the next re-sponse (Cherniak, 1986),3. communicative acts are part of social activ-ity, constrained by normative obligations ofrational agency (Allwood, 1976).We discuss these aspects from the point of viewof cooperative goal formulation and present theConstructive Dialogue Model as a new approachto plan system responses.
Our departure pointis in general conmmnicative principles which con-strain cooperative and coherent communication,and radical steps are taken in two respects: thedialogue grammar is abandoned as an infeasibleway to describe dialogues, and also speech actrecognition is abandoned as a redundant labellingof intention configurations.
The first step meansthat the structure is not built according to struc-turing rules, but emerges from local coherence asthe dialogue goes on.
The second step means thatbeliefs and intentions are dealt with by reasoningabout the utterance context and communicativeconstraints instead of speech act types.
The deci-sion about what to say next falls out as a result ofthe agent complying with the communicative prin-ciples which refer to the agent's rationality, sirecerity, motivation and consideration.
Combinedwith contextual knowledge, they account for theacceptability of different alternative responses.The paper is organised as follows.
The theoret-ical framework and its formalisation as the Con-structive Dialogue Model are discussed in Section2.
Section 3 presents how the system's commu-nicative goal is determined, and Section 4 providescomparision with related work.
Finally, conclu-sions and filture directions are given in Section 5.5982 Constructive Dialogue Mode l2.1 Rat ional ,  (:()operative way to reactRational agents try to follow the principles of IdealCooperation (Allwood, 1976) in comimmication:(1) assume a joint l)urpose, (2) show cognitiveconsideration (epistemic rationality regarding ap-propriate ways to react) and ethical consideration(intention to react in a way that does not preventthe partner fi'om fiflfilling her goals), and (3) trust,that the partner is acting according to the sameprinciples.
Ideal cooperation does not mean thatthe agents always react in the way the partner in-tended to evoke, but rather, it sets the normalityassumptions for the way the agents would behaveif no disturbing factors were present.
As (Gal-liers, 1989) points out, conflict resolution formsan important part of human conmmnication, andif systems are always ready to adopt the user'srole, they becolne rigid and unrealistic.
However,if the conflict becomes o serious that it makes anycooperation impossible, communication will breakdown as well.
Rational agents thus try to conlnlu-nicate so as to conforln to the shared assumptionsabout operationally appropriate and ethically ac-ceptable acts in a given situation (Jokinen, 11995).Empirical dialogue research as emphasised col-laborative nature of dialogues (Sacks et al, 1974;Clark and Wilkes-Gibbs, 1990).
Also computa-tionally oriented dialogue studies show that theusers express themselves vaguely and continuewith follow-up questions (Moore and Paris, 1993),and our  corpus 1 supports the view that even sin>ple information seeking dialogues resemble nego-tiations rather than straightforward question-ans-wer sequences.
Based on these obeservations andthe theoretical assumptions of Ideal Cooperation,we distinguished the main factors in rational, co-operative dialogue management as follows:Surface form Expressive intentionsDeclarative express a belief:want (Sp ,know(He ,P) )Interrogative desire for information:want (Sp,know(Sp, P) )hnperat ive desire for action:want (Sp,do(ge,P))Exclamative express action:want (Sp, do (Sp,P))whereas the information seeker is not ex-pected to teach the information provider howto look for the information.
The roles can befurther difl'erentiated with respect to socialfactors such as acquaintance of the addresseeand fornlality of the situation.?
Communicat ive  obl igat ions.
Social, nor-mative requirements hat concern the agent'ssincerit'9 (exchange information which is trueor for which evidence can be provided), mo-tivation (exchange information which is re-lated to one's goals and strategies), and con-sideration (exchange information which the.partner is able to deal with).?
Task.
Gives rise to communication.
Taskgoals are planned to complete a real workttask (rent a car, book ~ flight, repair a pump)but because of uneven distribution of knowl-edge, the agents usually need to collaborateto achieve the goal, and thus formulate com-,nunicative goals to obtain missing informa-tion, el.
(Guilm, 1994).B.
Commmf icat ive  act:?
Express ive  and evocat ive  att i tudes.
Todistinguish between the effects of an utter-ance and the intentions behind it, Austin'sconcept of illocution is split up into two: ez-pvession of the speaker's attitude and evoca-tion of a reaction in the partner; perlocutioncorresponds to what is actually achieved bythe act: the evoked respoT~se, cf.
(Allwood,1976).
Expression may differ fl'om evoca-tion (irony, indirectness), aud the evokedresponse fi'om the evocative intentions (theagent requests ilfformation that the partnercannot or does not want to disclose; the agentfa.ils to fi'ighten the partner becmme this hasguessed the agent's malicious intentions).Evocative intentionsshare the belief:want (Sp, want (He, know(He, P) ) )provide the desired information:want (Sp, want (He, know (Sp, P) ) )(provide) action:want (Sp, want (He, do (He, P) ) )attend to the action:want (Sp, want (He, do (Sp, P) ) )Figure 1: Conventional association of expressive and evocative intentionswith surface form, modified fi'om (Allwood, 1992).A.
Communicat ive  s ituat ion: C. Communicat ive  context:?
Role.
Characterised by global communica- ?
Expectat ions .
Evocative intentions putlive rights and obligations of the agents.
E.g.the information provider is expected to giveinformation which is relevant for the task,1The corpus was collected by the Wizard-of-Oztechnique with users trying to find information on car-\[tire companies and restaurants in a particular area,and is reported in (Nivre, 1992).pressure on the agent to react in a particularway.
Conventional expectations, carried bythe surface form (Fig.
1), serve as anchoringpoints in reasoning about the partner's com-municative goal (Cohen and Levesque, 1990).In it iat ives.
If the agent has initiated a con>municative goal, she "has the initiative" and599also the right to pursue the goal until it isachieved or not relevant anymore.
She alsohas the right to expect the partner to collab-orate or at least not prevent he agent fromachieving her goal.?
Unful f i l led goals.
If the expressive attitu-des of the partner's response match theevocative intentions of the agent's contribu-tion, the communicative goal of the agent'scontribution is fulfilled.
An unfulfilled goal ispushed forward or stored for later processing.When the agent has the right to take the ini-tiative, a previously unfulfilled goal can betaken up.
If the goal is still unfulfilled andrelevant, it is resumed, otherwise dropped.?
Themat ic  coherence .
A competent agentrelates the topic of her contribution to whathas been discussed previously or marks anawkward topic shift appropriately; otherwisethe agent risks being understood.
Thematicrelatedness i based on the types of relation-ships which occur in the domain.2.2 The  CDM SystemThe theoretical framework is formalised as an ap-proach to dialogue management called the Con-structive Dialogue Model, CDM (Jokinen, 1994).In CDM, the dialogue is an instrument o ex-change new information on a particular topic tocomplete a real world task, and it is managed lo-cally by reacting to the changed ialogue context.The task division and information flow in aCDM system 2 is shown in Fig.
2.
The dialoguemanager operates on the Context Model which isa dynamic knowledge base containing facts aboutthe agents' goals, expressive and evocative atti-tudes, central concepts (topic), and new informa-tion.
It also has access to three static knowl-edge bases: Communicative Principles (knowl-edge about rational, cooperative communication),Application Model (knowledge about tasks androles), and World Model (general knowledge aboutthe entities and their relations in the world).
3Dialogue contributions are constructed in threephases corresponding to the three main process-ing tasl~s.
Analysis of the input message resultsin the user's communicative goal, and containsfour subtasks: determine the explicitness level, in-terpret he propositional content, check coherenceand verify obligations.
Evaluation of the user goalconcerns an appropriate joint purpose and deter-mines the next system goal.
Response specifies thesystem's communicative goal up to the semanticrepresentation using the same subtasks as analysisbut in a reverse order.
Evaluation and responseform the agent's reaction.2The prototype is implemented in SICStus Prolog2.1, running under UNIX TM on a Sun SPARCStation.3 Linguistic knowledge isencoded in a linguistic lex-icon and grammar, and not discussed here.Input messageI Semantic RepresentationI ANALYSE ~ New tnfolicituess ~ User CGoaliositionrence~ationsUser CGoalLCT~ATEpurposezationSystem CG al \]OND~ationsrenceositionCentralConcept 1UserAttitudesNew-Info2SystemCGoalSystemAttitudesCONTEXTMODELicitness __, CentralI Semantic RepresentationOutput messageFigure 2: Information flow in the CDM system.The Context Model is represented as a parti-tioned Prolog database and the predicates havean extra argument referring to the contributionwhose processing introduced them.
In the attitudelanguage the predicates know, want and do repre-sent belief, intention and action, respectively, srefers to the system and u to the user.
Communi-cative Principles are reasoning rules of the fort0:if cntxtFactl  .
.
.
.
, cntxtFactNthen cntxtFactM+1,.
.
.
,cntxtYactK.The World Model uses neo-Davidsonian eventrepresentation, and the Application Model provi-des mappings from World Model concepts to taskand role related facts.3 Cooperat ive  Goa l  Formulat ionIn CDM, joint purpose represents the communica-tive strategy that an agent has chosen in a particu-lar situation to collaborate with her partner.
It isdetermined by evaluating the partner's goal withrespect to the communicative context: expecta-tions, initiatives, unfulfilled goals and coherence.Assigning binary values to these aspects, we get2 4 = 16 joint purposes, summarised in Fig.
3.
The600goalsfulfilledunfulfilledinitiativespeakerpartnerspeakerpartnercentral conceptrelatedrelatedunrelatedrelatedunrelatedunrelatedexpected responsef in ish/startfinish/sp-eeify~ p - n e wnew-requestbaektorepeat -newfol low-up-oldnew-q~- - -nml-expected response l\]cont inue /s tar to b j e e ~~ g e l s enew- indir - requestsubquest ion~\]-eet~ e d  iFigure 3: Possible joint purposes if the contextual factors are assigned binary values.reasoning rules are as follows (examples of the al-ternatives can be found in (aokinen, 1994)):1.
The  agent  has fulf i l led goals  only,  andthe  in i t ia t ive :  Finish the dialogue or start anew one depending on the pending task goals(finish/start/continue/obj ect/spe elf y).Maintain the initiative if the response is re-lated, give the initiative if unrelated.2.
The  agent  has fulf i l led goals  only,  butno in i t iat ive:  Adopt the partner's goal.Maintain the initiative if the response is ex-pected (follow-up-new,new-request), takethe initiative if the response is non-expected(somethingelse ,new- indir-request).3.
The  agent  has  unfn l f i l led goals ,  andthe  in i t ia t ive:  Adopt the partner's goal ifthe response is thematically related (backto ,subquest ion) ,  persist with the own goal ifunrelated ( repeat -new,ob jec t ) .
Maintainthe initiative if the response is expected, givethe initiative if non-expected.4.
The  agent  has  unfu l f i l led  goals,  but  noinitiative: Adopt the partner's goal.
Main-tain the initiative if the response is themat-ically related ( fo l low-up-o ld ,cont inue) ,take the initiative if unrelated (new-quest ion ,  uot re la ted) .The joint purpose describes coinnmnieative in-tentions in a context where no speaker obligationsor considerations hold.
In order to attend the re-quirements of a particular communicative situa-tion, the joint purpose needs to be specified withrespect to the agent's role, task and communica-tive obligations.Specification of the joint purpose via the Ap-plication Model captures the cognitive consider=ation of Ideal Cooperation: the agent plans herresponse to be operationally appropriate in thecurrent situation.
The result is a communicativegoal (c-goal), a set of communicative intentions in-stantiated according to the current task and role.The c-goal is then filtered through communica-tive obligations which impleinent he ethical consi-deration of Ideal Cooperation: the agent's com-municative competence shows in the ways she canrealise the same c-goal in various situations.
Somecommunicative obligations are listed in Fig.
4.Sincerity: "do I know this or can provide evidence?"1.
Everything that the speaker asserts or implies istrue unless otherwise xplicitly stated.Mot ivat ion:  "can I say this?"1.
Everything that the speaker wants to know orwants the partner to do is motivated except ifthe speaker cmmot take the initiative on it.2.
Everything that addresses what the partnerwanted to know or wanted the speaker to do ismotivated, except if the speaker emmot disclosethe information or do the act.3.
Everything that is related to CC is motivated ifnot already known.4.
Everything that informs of inconsistency is mo-tivated if not already known.Considerat ion:  "may I say this?"1.
If the partner's goal cammt be fulfilled (presup-positions are false, facts contradictory, no infor-mation exists), it is considerate to inform why(explain, compensate, initiate repair).2.
If the response would repeat previous informa-tion, it is considerate to leave this implicit unlessthe information is assigned a special emphasis.3.
If the partner's response is unrelated, it is con-siderate to inform of the irrelevance, given thatthe speaker has unfulfilled goals.4.
\[f the partner did not request a piece of relatedinformation, it is considerate to include this ex-plicitly in the response, given that the speakerintends to close the topic.Figure 4: Some communicative obligations.3.1 ExampleConsider the following sample dialogue where tilesystem's task is to provide service information tothe user:Uh I need a car.$1: Do yon want to buy or rent one?Ui: Rent.$2: Where?U3: In Bolton.$3: OK. ttere are the car hire companiesin Bolton: ....The analysis of the first user contribution U1 isgiven in Fig.
5.
The content of the user's c-goalis inferred from the World Model which says that'needing a car' can be interpreted as 'wanting tohave a cl~r'.601NEW INPO: needE(n,u,c), user(u), car(c)USER C-GOAL:  want(u, want(s, know(s,\ [want~e E(h, u, e )\]) )CENTRAL CONCEPT:  needE(n,u,c)EXPRESSIVE ATTITUDES:intention: user intend that system know P:want(u, know(s,\[needE(n,u, c ), user(u), car(c)\]))assumptions: user know that system not know P:know(u, not know(s,\[needE(n,u,d, user(u),car(e)\]))EVOCATIVE ATTITUDES:intention: user intend that system intend thatsystem know P:want(u, want#, know(s,\[.eed E(n, u, c ), user(u ), ear(c)\])))want(u, want(s, know(s,\[wantHave E(h,u,c )\],user(u ),~a,'(~ )\]) )Figure 5: Context Model after the user contribution1 need a car.
The constants n,u,c,h identify instanti-ated concepts.In the beginning of the dialogue the system hasno unfulfilled goals, and its role as an obedient in-formation provider does not allow it to have theinitiative.
Moreover, any contribution is triviallyunrelated to the previous topic, since no previ-ous topic exists.
According to the Joint Purposerule (2), the user's c-goal is thus adopted, and thesystem also takes the initiative, since the user con-tribution is non-expected (an information seekeris expected to start with a question or a request).The joint purpose becomes new-indir-request with"user wants to have a car" as the content, i.e.
thecommunicative strategy is to share the user's wantto have a car, and check if this want can be satis-fied within the Application Model.The system cannot provide the user with a car,but it can provide information about the servicesthat, enable the user to have a car.
ApplicationModel lists car hire companies and car garages aspossible services, so the communicative goal is for-mulated as to know which is the preferred service.The services are associated with renting or buyingcars, thus the disjunction is realised as 5'1.The system responses $2 and 5"3 are based onthe same strategy baclcto: the system 'goes back'to adopt the user's previous unfulfilled goal andtries to satisfy this in the updated context.
4 How-ever, they carry different c-goals due to differentspecification in the Application Model: $2 aimsat narrowing down the database search, 5,3 com-pletes the original task.
Finally, the communica-tive obligation Consideration (4) requires that theapplication service (car hire company) and loca-tion (Bolton) are explicitly expressed in $3 beforethe list of services.4The user response fulfills expectations and is the-maritally related, and the system has the initiativeand unfulfilled goals, at least one based on the origi-nal task to provide information.4 D iscuss ion  and  re lated workIn Section 1 we pointed out three important as-pects of dialogues which have been insufficientlyaccounted for in the earlier approaches to dialoguemanagement.
In CDM, these aspects form the ba-sis of the system's functionality: dialogues are re-garded as collaborative activities, planned locallyin the changed context as reactions to the previ-ous contributions and governed by the rationalityprinciples of Ideal Cooperation.
The logical omni-science assumption is tackled by partitioning theContext Model and focussing on specific knowl-edge with the hel f ) of thematic oherence; also ra-tionality considerations constrain reasoning.By adhering to general communicative princi-ples, CDM provides a new and uniform way totreat various phenomena that have been sepa-rately studied in previous research: goal formula-tion, coherence and cooperativeness.
Communica-tive principles fimetion on the following levels:1.
Determinat ion  of  the jo int  purpose :reasoning about a communicative strategy inthe context (expectations, initiatives, unflfl-filled goals, thematic coherence)2.
Se lect ion of the  communicat ive  goal:filtering the joint purpose with respect o theagent's role and task.3.
Rea l i sa t ion  of the  goal: specifying thegoal in regard to the communicative obliga-tions sincerity, motivation and consideration.However, we also use insights from the hugebody of research that exists on dialogue man-agement and natural language planning.
For in-stance, the negotiative nature of dialogues is em-phasised in (Moore and Paris, 1993) who showhow rhetorical knowledge can be combined withthe knowledge about the speaker's intentions andcommunicative goals so that the system can un-derstand follow-up questions or justify its expla-nations.
Our work differs from this in thatwe study general requirements of communicationrather than rhetorical relations and their augmen-tation with speaker intentions, to determine @-propriate responses.
It is possible to modify ourjoint purpose algorithm with information aboutrhetorical relations o as to check expectations inregard to argmnentation, or to include rhetoricalknowledge in the obligations used when reason-ing about multisentential contributions, but as ourprimary goal has been to specify communicativeprinciples and use them in the formalisation of thecooperative and rational nature of dialogues, thiskind of extension is left for future.
(Guinn, 1994) presents a model of mixed-initative negotiation as collaborative problemsolving.
His Missing Axiom approach demonstra-tes collaboration and communication between twoagents wl~o possess complementary knowledge: ifthe agent's information is not sufficient to allow602completion of the proof the agent is set to do,the agent attempts to provide the missing axiomsthrough interaction.
This is similar to our basic as-sumption of how domain tasks give rise to eonlinu-nication.
The differences lie again in our einphasison 'Rational and Cooperative Communication' asopposed to 'Interaction as a FMlure to Prove'.In abandoning dialogue grammar and speechact classification, we agree with the common viewcurrently held among researches: dialogue struc-ture is constructed on the basis of the partici-pants' beliefs and intentions, and speech act typesare at most convenient abbreviations for a setof attitudes held by the speakers, but do notconstitute an explanation of the dialogue (Co-hen and Levesque, 1990; Galliers, 1989).
We Msouse contextual knowledge xtensively, and connectintention-based approaches to practical dialoguemanagement: rationality and cooperation are notonly tied to the agent's beliefs and intentions ofthe desidered next state of the world, but also tothe wider social context in which the communica-tion takes place.5 Conc lus ion  and future  d i rect ionsThis paper has presented a new way to formulatesystem goals in intelligent dialogue systems.
It ad-vocates a view-point where the system's fnnction-ality is iml)roved by relating the dialogue situationto communication i general.
The constraints ofrational, cooperative communication p,:ovide theframework in which to deal with contributions:communicators have a joint purpose, they obeycommunicative obligations and they trust that thepartner behaves o that these constraints are tiff-filled.
Dialogues are dynamic constructions, andcontributions are locally planned and realised sothat the communicative r quirements of the dia-logue us a whole are respected.Current interests concern the extension of thecommunicative principles into different activitiesand agent roles.
This contributes to the generalityof the model by spelling out specific requirementsof different communicative situations.
It also en-ables us to study strategic planning and how dif-ferent roles affect the obligations that the agentswant to obey (e.g.
in conflict situations).
Work isnow in progress to cover other types of task dia-logues, and to enhance the impleinentation.ReferencesJ.
F. Allen and C. R. Perrault.
1980.
Analyzingintention in utterances.
Artificial Intelligence,15:143 178.J.
Allwood.
1976.
Linguistic Communication asAction an, d Cooperation.
Department of Lin-guistics, University of GSteborg.
GothenburgMonographs in Linguistics 2.J.
Allwood.
1992.
On dialogue cohesion.
Tech-nical Report Gothenburg Papers in TheoreticalLinguistics 65, University of Gothenburg.D.
Appelt.
1985.
Planning Natural Language Ut-terances.
Cambridge University Press, Cain-bridge.E.
Bilange.
1992.
Dialogue personne-machine.
Mod~lisation et r&disation informa-tiquc.
Ilerm~s, Paris.It.
C. Bunt, R. J. Beun, F. J. H. Dols, J.
A. van derLinden, and G. O. thoe Sehwartzenl)erg.
1984.The TENDUM dialogue system and its theoretical basis.
Technical Report 19, IPO.A.
Cawsey.
1993.
Explanation and Interaction.~lT~e Computer Generation of Explanatory Dia-logues.
The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.C.
Cherniak.
1986.
Minimal Rationality.
TheM1T Press.
Cambridge, MA.it.
It.
Clark and D. Wilkes-Gibbs.
1990.
Refer-ring as a collaborative process.
In P. R. Cohen,J.
Morgan, and M. E. Pollack, editors, Inten-tions In Communication, pages 463-493.
TheMIT Press.
Cambridge, MA.P.
R. Cohen and It.
J. Levesque.
1990.
Rationalinteraction as the basis for communication.
InP.
R. Cohen, J. Morgan, and M. E. Pollack, ed-itors, Intentions in Communication, pages 221255.
The MIT Press.
Cambridge, MA.J.
R. Galliers.
1989.
A theoreticM frameworkfor computer models of cooperative diMogue,acknowledging multi-agent conflict.
TechnicalReport 172, University of Carat)ridge.B.
a. Grosz and C. L. Sidner.
1986.
Attention, in-tentions, and the structure of discourse.
Com-putational Linguistics, 12(3): 175-204.C.
I. Guinn.
1994.
Mcta-Dialogue Behaviors: Im-proving the Efficiency of Human-Machine Dia-logue.
A Computational Model of Variable Ini-tiative and Negotiation in Collaborative Prob-lem-Solving.
Ph.D. thesis, Duke University.K.
Jokinen.
1994.
Response Planning in Informa-tion-Seeking Dialogues.
Ph.D. thesis, UMIST.K.
Jokinen.
1995.
Rational agency.
In M. Fehling,editor, Rational Agency: Concepts, Theories,Models, and Applications, pages 89--93.
Pro-ceedings of The AAAI-95 Fall Symposium.J.
D. Moore and C. L. Paris.
1993.
Planningtext for advisory diMogues: Capturing inten-tional and rhetorical information.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 19(4):651-694.J.
Nivre.
(Ed.)(1992).
Corpus collection an'd anal-ysis.
Technical Report D2.1, PLUS deliverable.It.
Sacks, E. A. Schegloff, and G. Jefferson.1974.
A simplest systematies for the organiza-tion of turn-taking in conversation.
Language,50(4):696-735.603
