Proceedings of the 2007 Joint Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and ComputationalNatural Language Learning, pp.
12?21, Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsUsing Semantic Roles to Improve Question AnsweringDan ShenSpoken Language SystemsSaarland UniversitySaarbruecken, Germanydan@lsv.uni-saarland.deMirella LapataSchool of InformaticsUniversity of EdinburghEdinburgh, UKmlap@inf.ed.ac.ukAbstractShallow semantic parsing, the automaticidentification and labeling of sentential con-stituents, has recently received much atten-tion.
Our work examines whether seman-tic role information is beneficial to questionanswering.
We introduce a general frame-work for answer extraction which exploitssemantic role annotations in the FrameNetparadigm.
We view semantic role assign-ment as an optimization problem in a bipar-tite graph and answer extraction as an in-stance of graph matching.
Experimental re-sults on the TREC datasets demonstrate im-provements over state-of-the-art models.1 IntroductionRecent years have witnessed significant progress indeveloping methods for the automatic identificationand labeling of semantic roles conveyed by senten-tial constituents.1 The success of these methods, of-ten referred to collectively as shallow semantic pars-ing (Gildea and Jurafsky, 2002), is largely due to theavailability of resources like FrameNet (Fillmore etal., 2003) and PropBank (Palmer et al, 2005), whichdocument the surface realization of semantic roles inreal world corpora.More concretely, in the FrameNet paradigm, themeaning of predicates (usually verbs, nouns, or ad-jectives) is conveyed by frames, schematic repre-sentations of situations.
Semantic roles (or frame1The approaches are too numerous to list; we refer the inter-ested reader to Carreras and Ma`rquez (2005) for an overview.elements) are defined for each frame and corre-spond to salient entities present in the evoked situ-ation.
Predicates with similar semantics instantiatethe same frame and are attested with the same roles.The FrameNet database lists the surface syntacticrealizations of semantic roles, and provides anno-tated example sentences from the British NationalCorpus.
For example, the frame Commerce Sell hasthree core semantic roles, namely Buyer, Goods, andSeller ?
each expressed by an indirect object, a di-rect object, and a subject (see sentences (1a)?
(1c)).It can also be attested with non-core (peripheral)roles (e.g., Means, Manner, see (1d) and (1e)) thatare more generic and can be instantiated in sev-eral frames, besides Commerce Sell.
The verbs sell,vend, and retail can evoke this frame, but also thenouns sale and vendor.
(1) a.
[Lee]Seller sold a textbook [toAbby]Buyer.b.
[Kim]Seller sold [the sweater]Goods.c.
[My company]Seller has sold [morethan three million copies]Goods.d.
[Abby]Seller sold [the car]Goods [forcash]Means.e.
[He]Seller [reluctanctly]Manner sold[his rock]Goods.By abstracting over surface syntactic configura-tions, semantic roles offer an important first step to-wards deeper text understanding and hold promisefor a range of applications requiring broad cover-age semantic processing.
Question answering (QA)is often cited as an obvious beneficiary of semantic12role labeling (Gildea and Jurafsky, 2002; Palmer etal., 2005; Narayanan and Harabagiu, 2004).
Facedwith the question Q: What year did the U.S. buyAlaska?
and the retrieved sentence S: .
.
.before Rus-sia sold Alaska to the United States in 1867, a hypo-thetical QA system must identify that United Statesis the Buyer despite the fact that it is attested in oneinstance as a subject and in another as an object.Once this information is known, isolating the correctanswer (i.e., 1867 ) can be relatively straightforward.Although conventional wisdom has it that seman-tic role labeling ought to improve answer extraction,surprising little work has been done to this effect(see Section 2 for details) and initial results havebeen mostly inconclusive or negative (Sun et al,2005; Kaisser, 2006).
There are at least two goodreasons for these findings.
First, shallow semanticparsers trained on declarative sentences will typi-cally have poor performance on questions and gen-erally on out-of-domain data.
Second, existing re-sources do not have exhaustive coverage and recallwill be compromised, especially if the question an-swering system is expected to retrieve answers fromunrestricted text.
Since FrameNet is still under de-velopment, its coverage tends to be more of a prob-lem in comparison to other semantic role resourcessuch as PropBank.In this paper we propose an answer extractionmodel which effectively incorporates FrameNet-style semantic role information.
We present an auto-matic method for semantic role assignment which isconceptually simple and does not require extensivefeature engineering.
A key feature of our approachis the comparison of dependency relation paths at-tested in the FrameNet annotations and raw text.
Weformalize the search for an optimal role assignmentas an optimization problem in a bipartite graph.
Thisformalization allows us to find an exact, globally op-timal solution.
The graph-theoretic framework goessome way towards addressing coverage problems re-lated with FrameNet and allows us to formulate an-swer extraction as a graph matching problem.
As abyproduct of our main investigation we also exam-ine the issue of FrameNet coverage and show howmuch it impacts performance in a TREC-style ques-tion answering setting.In the following section we provide an overviewof existing work on question answering systems thatexploit semantic role-based lexical resources.
Thenwe define our learning task and introduce our ap-proach to semantic role assignment and answer ex-traction in the context of QA.
Next, we present ourexperimental framework and data.
We conclude thepaper by presenting and discussing our results.2 Related WorkQuestion answering systems have traditionally de-pended on a variety of lexical resources to bridgesurface differences between questions and potentialanswers.
WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998) is perhaps themost popular resource and has been employed ina variety of QA-related tasks ranging from queryexpansion, to axiom-based reasoning (Moldovan etal., 2003), passage scoring (Paranjpe et al, 2003),and answer filtering (Leidner et al, 2004).
BesidesWordNet, recent QA systems increasingly rely onsyntactic information as a means of abstracting overword order differences and structural alternations(e.g., passive vs. active voice).
Most syntax-basedQA systems (Wu et al, 2005) incorporate somemeans of comparison between the tree representingthe question with the subtree surrounding the answercandidate.
The assumption here is that appropriateanswers are more likely to have syntactic relationsin common with their corresponding question.
Syn-tactic structure matching has been applied to pas-sage retrieval (Cui et al, 2005) and answer extrac-tion (Shen and Klakow, 2006).Narayanan and Harabagiu (2004) were the firstto stress the importance of semantic roles in an-swering complex questions.
Their system identifiespredicate argument structures by merging semanticrole information from PropBank and FrameNet.
Ex-pected answers are extracted by performing proba-bilistic inference over the predicate argument struc-tures in conjunction with a domain specific topicmodel.
Sun et al (2005) incorporate semantic analy-sis in their TREC05 QA system.
They use ASSERT(Pradhan et al, 2004), a publicly available shallowsemantic parser trained on PropBank, to generatepredicate-argument structures which subsequentlyform the basis of comparison between question andanswer sentences.
They find that semantic analysisdoes not boost performance due to the low recallof the semantic parser.
Kaisser (2006) proposes a13SemStruc ac1SemStruc ac2SemStruc aciSemStruc qSent.
Model IQ Model IModel II AnswerFigure 1: Architecture of answer extractionquestion paraphrasing method based on FrameNet.Questions are assigned semantic roles by matchingtheir dependency relations with those attested in theFrameNet annotations.
The assignments are used tocreate question reformulations which are submittedto Google for answer extraction.
The semantic roleassignment module is not probabilistic, it relies onstrict matching, and runs into severe coverage prob-lems.In line with previous work, our method exploitssyntactic information in the form of dependency re-lation paths together with FrameNet-like semanticroles to smooth lexical and syntactic divergences be-tween question and answer sentences.
Our approachis less domain dependent and resource intensive thanNarayanan and Harabagiu (2004), it solely employsa dependency parser and the FrameNet database.
Incontrast to Kaisser (2006), we model the semanticrole assignment and answer extraction tasks numer-ically, thereby alleviating the coverage problems en-countered previously.3 Problem FormulationWe briefly summarize the architecture of the QAsystem we are working with before formalizing themechanics of our FrameNet-based answer extractionmodule.
In common with previous work, our over-all approach consists of three stages: (a) determiningthe expected answer type of the question, (b) retriev-ing passages likely to contain answers to the ques-tion, and (c) performing a match between the ques-tion words and retrieved passages in order to extractthe answer.
In this paper we focus on the last stage:question and answer sentences are normalized to aFrameNet-style representation and answers are re-trieved by selecting the candidate whose semanticstructure is most similar to the question.The architecture of our answer extraction mod-ule is shown in Figure 1.
Semantic structures forquestions and sentences are automatically derivedusing the model described in Section 4 (Model I).
Asemantic structure SemStruc = ?p,Set(SRA)?
con-sists of a predicate p and a set of semantic role as-signments Set(SRA).
p is a word or phrase evok-ing a frame F of FrameNet.
A semantic role assign-ment SRA is a ternary structure ?w,SR,s?, consist-ing of frame element w, its semantic role SR, andscore s indicating to what degree SR qualifies as alabel for w.For a question q, we generate a semantic struc-ture SemStrucq.
Question words, such as what, who,when, etc., are considered expected answer phrases(EAPs).
We require that EAPs are frame elementsof SemStrucq.
Likely answer candidates are ex-tracted from answer sentences following some pre-processing steps detailed in Section 6.
For eachcandidate ac, we derive its semantic structureSemStrucac and assume that ac is a frame ele-ment of SemStrucac.
Question and answer seman-tic structures are compared using a model based ongraph matching detailed in Section 5 (Model II).We calculate the similarity of all derived pairs?SemStrucq,SemStrucac?
and select the candidatewith the highest value as an answer for the question.4 Semantic Structure GenerationOur method crucially exploits the annotated sen-tences in the FrameNet database together with theoutput of a dependency parser.
Our guiding assump-tion is that sentences that share dependency rela-tions will also share semantic roles as long as theyevoke the same or related frames.
This is motivatedby much research in lexical semantics (e.g., Levin(1993)) hypothesizing that the behavior of words,particularly with respect to the expression and in-terpretation of their arguments, is to a large ex-tent determined by their meaning.
We first describehow predicates are identified and then introduce ourmodel for semantic role labeling.Predicate Identification Predicate candidates areidentified using a simple look-up procedure whichcompares POS-tagged tokens against FrameNet en-tries.
For efficiency reasons, we make the simplify-ing assumption that questions have only one predi-cate which we select heuristically: (1) verbs are pre-14ferred to other parts of speech, (2) if there is morethan one verb in the question, preference is given tothe verb with the highest level of embedding in thedependency tree, (3) if no verbs are present, a nounis chosen.
For example, in Q: Who beat Floyd Pat-terson to take the title away?, beat, take away, andtitle are identified as predicate candidates and beatis selected the main predicate of the question.
Foranswer sentences, we require that the predicate is ei-ther identical or semantically related to the questionpredicate (see Section 5).In the example given above, the predicate beatevoques a single frame (i.e., Cause harm).
However,predicates often have multiple meanings thus evo-quing more than one frame.
Knowing which is theappropriate frame for a given predicate impacts thesemantic role assignment task; selecting the wrongframe will unavoidably result in erroneous semanticroles.
Rather than disambiguiting polysemous pred-icates prior to semantic role assignment, we performthe assignment for each frame evoqued by the pred-icate.Semantic Role Assignment Before describingour approach to semantic role labeling we definedependency relation paths.
A relation path R is arelation sequence ?r1,r2, ...,rL?, in which rl (l =1,2, ...,L) is one of predefined dependency relationswith suffix of traverse direction.
An example of arelation path is R = ?sub jU ,ob jD?, where the sub-scripts U and D indicate upward and downwardmovement in trees, respectively.
Given an unanno-tated sentence whose roles we wish to label, we as-sume that words or phrases w with a dependencypath connecting them to p are frame elements.
Eachframe element is represented by an unlabeled depen-dency path Rw which we extract by traversing thedependency tree from w to p. Analogously, we ex-tract from the FrameNet annotations all dependencypaths RSR that are labeled with semantic role infor-mation and correspond to p. We next measure thecompatibility of labeled and unlabeled paths as fol-lows:s(w,SR) =maxRSR?M [sim(Rw,RSR) ?P(RSR)](2)where M is the set of dependency relation pathsfor SR in FrameNet, sim(Rw,RSR) the similarity be-tween paths Rw and RSR weighted by the relativew SRw SR(a) (b)Figure 2: Sample original bipartite graph (a) and itssubgraph with edge covers (b).
In each graph, theleft partition represents frame elements and the rightpartition semantic roles.frequency of RSR in FrameNet (P(RSR)).
We con-sider both core and non-core semantic roles instan-tiated by frames with at least one annotation inFrameNet.
Core roles tend to have more annotationsin Framenet and consequently are considered moreprobable.We measure sim(Rw,RSR), by adapting a stringkernel to our task.
Our hypothesis is that the morecommon substrings two dependency paths have,the more similar they are.
The string kernel weused is similar to Leslie (2002) and defined asthe sum of weighted common dependency rela-tion subsequences between Rw and RSR.
For effi-ciency, we consider only unigram and bigram sub-sequences.
Subsequences are weighted by a metricakin to t f ?
id f which measures the degree of asso-ciation between a candidate SR and the dependencyrelation r present in the subsequence:weightSR(r) = fr ?
log(1+ Nnr)(3)where fr is the frequency of r occurring in SR; N isthe total number of SRs evoked by a given frame;and nr is the number of SRs containing r.For each frame element we thus generate a setof semantic role assignments Set(SRA).
This initialassignment can be usefully represented as a com-plete bipartite graph in which each frame element(word or phrase) is connected to the semantic roleslicensed by the predicate and vice versa.
(see Fig-ure 2a).
Edges are weighted and represent how com-patible the frame elements and semantic roles are(see equation (2)).
Now, for each frame element w15Q: Who discovered prions?S: 1997: Stanley B. Prusiner, United States, discovery of prions, ...SemStruc qp: discoverOriginal SR assignments:Optimized SR assignments:0.06 CognizerPhenomenonGroundStateEvidenceEAPprions00000.010.10.050.050.020.06 CognizerPhenomenonGroundStateEvidenceEAPprions0.10.050.050.02SemStruc ac (ac: Stanley B. Prusiner)p: discoveryOriginal SR assignments:Optimized SR assignments:0.25 CognizerPhenomenonTopicEvidenceacprions0.150.20.160.25 CognizerPhenomenonTopicEvidenceacprions0.150.20.160.120.070 0Figure 3: Semantic structures induced by our modelfor a question and answer sentencewe could simply select the semantic role with thehighest score.
However, this decision procedure islocal, i.e., it yields a semantic role assignment foreach frame element independently of all other ele-ments.
We therefore may end up with the same rolebeing assigned to two frame elements or with frameelements having no role at all.
We remedy this short-coming by treating the semantic role assignment asa global optimization problem.Specifically, we model the interaction between allpairwise labeling decisions as a minimum weightbipartite edge cover problem (Eiter and Mannila,1997; Cormen et al, 1990).
An edge cover is a sub-graph of a bipartite graph so that each node is linkedto at least one node of the other partition.
This yieldsa semantic role assignment for all frame elements(see Figure 2b where frame elements and roles areadjacent to an edge).
Edge covers have been success-fully applied in several natural language processingtasks, including machine translation (Taskar et al,2005) and annotation projection (Pado?
and Lapata,2006).Formally, optimal edge cover assignments are so-lutions of following optimization problem:maxE is edge cover ?
(ndw,ndSR)?E s(ndw,ndSR)(4)where, s(ndw,ndSR) is the compatibility score be-tween the frame element node ndw and semantic rolenode ndSR.
Edge covers can be computed efficientlyin cubic time using algorithms for the equivalentlinear assignment problem.
Our experiments usedJonker and Volgenant?s (1987) solver.2Figure 3 shows the semantic role assignmentsgenerated by our model for the question Q: Whodiscovered prions?
and the candidate answer sen-tence S: 1997: Stanley B. Prusiner, United States,discovery of prions.
.
.
Here we identify two predi-cates, namely discover and discovery.
The expectedanswer phrase (EAP) who and the answer candi-date Stanley B. Prusiner are assigned the COGNIZERrole.
Note that frame elements can bear multiple se-mantic roles.
By inducing a soft labeling we hope torender the matching of questions and answers morerobust, thereby addressing to some extent the cover-age problems associated with FrameNet.5 Semantic Structure MatchingWe measure the similarity between a question andits candidate answer by matching their predicatesand semantic role assignments.
Since SRs are frame-specific, we prioritize frame matching to SR match-ing.
Two predicates match if they evoke the sameframe or one of its hypernyms (or hyponyms).
Thelatter are expressed by the Inherits From and Is In-herited By relations in the frame definitions.
If thepredicates match, we examine whether the assignedsemantic roles match.
Since we represent SR assign-ments as graphs with edge covers, we can also for-malize SR matching as a graph matching problem.The similarity between two graphs is measuredas the sum of similarities between their subgraphs.We first decompose a graph into subgraphs consist-ing of one frame element node w and a set of SRnodes connected to it.
The similarity between twosubgraphs SubG1, and SubG2 is then formalized as:(5) Sim(SubG1,SubG2) =?ndSR1 ?
SubG1ndSR2 ?
SubG2ndSR1 = ndSR21|s(ndw,ndSR1 )?
s(ndw,ndSR2 )|+1where, ndSR1 and ndSR2 are semantic role nodes con-nected to a frame element node ndw in SubG1 and2The software is available from http://www.magiclogic.com/assignment.html .161757[11, 20]2117[21, 50]439[51, 100] 40[101, INF)338001175[1, 5]1287[6, 10]Figure 4: Distribution of Numbers of Predicates andannotated sentences; each sub-pie, lists the numberof predicates (above) with their corresponding rangeof annotated sentences (below)SubG2, respectively.
s(ndw,ndsr1 ) and s(ndw,ndSR2 )are edge weights between two nodes in correspond-ing subgraphs (see (2)).
Our intuition here is thatthe more semantic roles two subgraphs share for agiven frame element, the more similar they are andthe closer their corresponding edge weights shouldbe.
Edge weights are normalized by dividing by thesum of all edges in a subgraph.6 Experimental SetupData All our experiments were performed on theTREC02?05 factoid questions.
We excluded NILquestions since TREC doesn?t supply an answer forthem.
We used the FrameNet V1.3 lexical database.It contains 10,195 predicates grouped into 795 se-mantic frames and 141,238 annotated sentences.Figure 4 shows the number of annotated sentencesavailable for different predicates.
As can be seen,there are 3,380 predicates with no annotated sen-tences and 1,175 predicates with less than 5 anno-tated sentences.
All FrameNet sentences, questions,and answer sentences were parsed using MiniPar(Lin, 1994), a robust dependency parser.As mentioned in Section 4 we extract depen-dency relation paths by traversing the dependencytree from the frame element node to the predicatenode.
We used all dependency relations providedby MiniPar (42 in total).
In order to increase cov-erage, we combine all relation paths for predicatesthat evoke the same frame and are labeled with thesame POS tag.
For example, found and establishare both instances of the frame Intentionally createbut the database does not have any annotated sen-tences for found.v.
In default of not assigning anyrole labels for found.v, our model employs the rela-tion paths for the semantically related establish.v.Preprocessing Here we summarize the steps ofour QA system preceding the assignment of seman-tic structure and answer extraction.
For each ques-tion, we recognize its expected answer type (e.g., inQ: Which record company is Fred Durst with?
wewould expect the answer to be an ORGANIZA-TION ).
Answer types are determined using classi-fication rules similar to Li and Roth (2002).
We alsoreformulate questions into declarative sentences fol-lowing the strategy proposed in Brill et al (2002).The reformulated sentences are submitted asqueries to an IR engine for retrieving sentences withrelevant answers.
Specifically, we use the LemurToolkit3, a state-of-the-art language model-drivensearch engine.
We work only with the 50 top-rankedsentences as this setting performed best in previ-ous experiments of our QA system.
We also add toLemur?s output gold standard sentences, which con-tain and support an answer for each question.
Specif-ically, documents relevant for each question are re-trieved from the AQUAINT Corpus4 according toTREC supplied judgments.
Next, sentences whichmatch both the TREC provided answer pattern andat least one question key word are extracted and theirsuitability is manually judged by humans.
The set ofrelevant sentences thus includes at least one sentencewith an appropriate answer as well as sentences thatdo not contain any answer specific information.
Thissetup is somewhat idealized, however it allows us toevaluate in more detail our answer extraction mod-ule (since when an answer is not found, we know itis the fault of our system).Relevant sentences are annotated with theirnamed entities using Lingpipe5, a MUC-basednamed entity recognizer.
When we successfullyclassify a question with an expected answer type3See http://www.lemurproject.org/ for details.4This corpus consists of English newswire texts and is usedas the main document collection in official TREC evaluations.5The software is available from www.alias-i.com/lingpipe/17(e.g., ORGANIZATION in the example above), weassume that all NPs attested in the set of relevantsentences with the same answer type are candidateanswers; in cases where no answer type is found(e.g., as in Q: What are prions made of?
), all NPsin the relevant answers set are considered candidateanswers.Baseline We compared our answer extractionmethod to a QA system that exploits solely syntac-tic information without making use of FrameNet orany other type of role semantic annotations.
For eachquestion, the baseline identifies key phrases deemedimportant for answer identification.
These are verbs,noun phrases, and expected answer phrases (EAPs,see Section 3).
All dependency relation paths con-necting a key phrase and an EAP are compared tothose connecting the same key phrases and an an-swer candidate.
The similarity of question and an-swer paths is computed using a simplified versionof the similarity measure6 proposed in Shen andKlakow (2006).Our second baseline employs Shalmaneser (Erkand Pado?, 2006), a publicly available shallow se-mantic parser7, for the role labeling task instead ofthe graph-based model presented in Section 4.
Thesoftware is trained on the FrameNet annotated sen-tences using a standard feature set (see Carreras andMa`rquez (2005) for details).
We use Shalmaneserto parse questions and answer sentences.
The parsermakes hard decisions about the presence or absenceof a semantic role.
Unfortunately, this prevents usfrom using our method for semantic structure match-ing (see Section 5) which assumes a soft labeling.We therefore came up with a simple matching strat-egy suitable for the parser?s output.
For questionand answer sentences matching in their frame as-signment, phrases bearing the same semantic role asthe EAP are considered answer candidates.
The lat-ter are ranked according to word overlap (i.e., iden-tical phrases are ranked higher than phrases with no6Shen and Klakow (2006) use a dynamic time warping al-gorithm to calculate the degree to which dependency relationpaths are correlated.
Correlations for individual relations are es-timated from training data whereas we assume a binary value (1for identical relations and 0 otherwise).
The modification wasnecessary to render the baseline system comparable to our an-swer extraction model which is unsupervised.7The software is available from http://www.coli.uni-saarland.de/projects/salsa/shal/ .overlap at all).7 ResultsOur evaluation was motivated by the following ques-tions: (1) How does the incompleteness of FrameNetimpact QA performance on the TREC data sets?
Inparticular, we wanted to examine whether there arequestions for which in principle no answer can befound due to missing frame entries or missing an-notated sentences.
(2) Are all questions and theircorresponding answers amenable to a FrameNet-style analysis?
In other words, we wanted to assesswhether questions and answers often evoke the sameor related frames (with similar roles).
This is a pre-requisite for semantic structure matching and ulti-mately answer extraction.
(3) Do the graph-basedmodels introduced in this paper bring any perfor-mance gains over state-of-the-art shallow semanticparsers or more conventional syntax-based QA sys-tems?
Recall that our graph-based models were de-signed especially for the QA answer extraction task.Our results are summarized in Tables 1?3.
Table 1records the number of questions to be answered forthe TREC02?05 datasets (Total).
We also give infor-mation regarding the number of questions which arein principle unanswerable with a FrameNet-style se-mantic role analysis.Column NoFrame shows the number of questionswhich don?t have an appropriate frame or predicatein the database.
For example, there is currently nopredicate entry for sponsor or sink (e.g., Q: Whois the sponsor of the International Criminal Court?and Q: What date did the Lusitania sink?
).
ColumnNoAnnot refers to questions for which no semanticrole labeling is possible because annotated sentencesfor the relevant predicates are missing.
For instance,there are no annotations for win (e.g., Q: What divi-sion did Floyd Patterson win? )
or for hit (e.g., Q:What was the Beatles?
first number one hit?
).
Thisproblem is not specific to our method which admit-tedly relies on FrameNet annotations for performingthe semantic role assignment (see Section 4).
Shal-low semantic parsers trained on FrameNet wouldalso have trouble assigning roles to predicates forwhich no data is available.Finally, column NoMatch reports the number ofquestions which cannot be answered due to frame18Data Total NoFrame NoAnnot NoMatch RestTREC02 444 87 (19.6) 29 (6.5) 176 (39.6) 152 (34.2)TREC03 380 55 (14.5) 30 (7.9) 183 (48.2) 112 (29.5)TREC04 203 47 (23.1) 14 (6.9) 67 (33.0) 75 (36.9)TREC05 352 70 (19.9) 23 (6.5) 145 (41.2) 114 (32.4)Table 1: Number of questions which cannot be answered using a FrameNet style semantic analysis; numbersin parentheses are percentages of Total (NoFrame: frames or predicates are missing; NoAnnot: annotatedsentences are missing, NoMatch: questions and candidate answers evoke different frames.mismatches.
Consider Q: What does AARP standfor?
whose answer is found in S: The AmericanAssociation of Retired Persons (AARP) qualify fordiscounts.
.
..
The answer and the question evoke dif-ferent frames; in fact here a semantic role analysis isnot relevant for locating the right answer.
As can beseen NoMatch cases are by far the most frequent.The number of questions remaining after excludingNoFrame, NoAnnot, and NoMatch are shown underthe Rest heading in Table 1.These results indicate that FrameNet-based se-mantic role analysis applies to approximately 35%of the TREC data.
This means that an extractionmodule relying solely on FrameNet will have poorperformance, since it will be unable to find answersfor more than half of the questions beeing asked.
Wenevertheless examine whether our model brings anyperformance improvements on this limited datasetwhich is admittedly favorable towards a FrameNetstyle analysis.
Table 2 shows the results of our an-swer extraction module (SemMatch) together withtwo baseline systems.
The first baseline uses onlydependency relation path information (SynMatch),whereas the second baseline (SemParse) uses Shal-maneser, a state-of-the-art shallow semantic parserfor the role labeling task.
We consider an answercorrect if it is returned with rank 1.
As can be seen,SemMatch is significantly better than both Syn-Match and SemParse, whereas the latter is signifi-cantly worse than SynMatch.Although promising, the results in Table 2 are notvery informative, since they show performance gainson partial data.
Instead of using our answer extrac-tion model on its own, we next combined it with thesyntax-based system mentioned above (SynMatch,see also Section 6 for details).
If FrameNet is indeedhelpful for QA, we would expect an ensemble sys-Model TREC02 TREC03 TREC04 TREC05SemParse 13.16 8.92 17.33 13.16SynMatch 35.53?
33.04?
40.00?
36.84?SemMatch 53.29??
49.11??
54.67??
59.65?
?Table 2: System Performance on subset of TRECdatasets (see Rest column in Table 1); ?
: signifi-cantly better than SemParse; ?
: significantly betterthan SynMatch (p < 0.01, using a ?2 test).Model TREC02 TREC03 TREC04 TREC05SynMatch 32.88?
30.70?
35.95?
34.38?+SemParse 25.23 23.68 28.57 26.70+SemMatch 38.96??
35.53??
42.36??
41.76?
?Table 3: System Performance on TREC datasets (seeTotal column in Table 1); ?
: significantly better than+SemParse; ?
: significantly better than SynMatch(p < 0.01, using a ?2 test).tem to yield better performance over a purely syn-tactic answer extraction module.
The two systemswere combined as follows.
Given a question, we firstpass it to our FrameNet model; if an answer is found,our job is done; if no answer is returned, the ques-tion is passed on to SynMatch.
Our results are givenin Table 3.
+SemMatch and +SemParse are ensem-ble systems using SynMatch together with the QAspecific role labeling method proposed in this pa-per and Shalmaneser, respectively.
We also comparethese systems against SynMatch on its own.We can now attempt to answer our third ques-tion concerning our model?s performance on theTREC data.
Our experiments show that a FrameNet-enhanced answer extraction module significantlyoutperforms a similar module that uses only syn-tactic information (compare SynMatch and +Sem-Match in Table 3).
Another interesting finding is that19the shallow semantic parser performs considerablyworse in comparison to our graph-based models andthe syntax-based system.
Inspection of the parser?soutput highlights two explanations for this.
First, theshallow semantic parser has difficulty assigning ac-curate semantic roles to questions (even when theyare reformulated as declarative sentences).
And sec-ondly, it tends to favor precision over recall, thus re-ducing the number of questions for which answerscan be found.
A similar finding is reported in Sun etal.
(2005) for a PropBank trained parser.8 ConclusionIn this paper we assess the contribution of semanticrole labeling to open-domain factoid question an-swering.
We present a graph-based answer extrac-tion model which effectively incorporates FrameNetstyle role semantic information and show that itachieves promising results.
Our experiments showthat the proposed model can be effectively combinedwith a syntax-based system to obtain performancesuperior to the latter when used on its own.
Fur-thermore, we demonstrate performance gains over ashallow semantic parser trained on the FrameNet an-notated corpus.
We argue that performance gains aredue to the adopted graph-theoretic framework whichis robust to coverage and recall problems.We also provide a detailed analysis of the appro-priateness of FrameNet for QA.
We show that per-formance can be compromised due to incompletecoverage (i.e., missing frame or predicate entriesas well as annotated sentences) but also because ofmismatching question-answer representations.
Thequestion and the answer may evoke different framesor the answer simply falls outside the scope of agiven frame (i.e., in a non predicate-argument struc-ture).
Our study shows that mismatches are rela-tively frequent and motivates the use of semanticallyinformed methods in conjunction with syntax-basedmethods.Important future directions lie in evaluating thecontribution of alternative semantic role frameworks(e.g., PropBank) to the answer extraction task anddeveloping models that learn semantic roles di-rectly from unannotated text without the supportof FrameNet annotations (Grenager and Manning,2006).
Beyond question answering, we also plan toinvestigate the potential of our model for shallowsemantic parsing since our experience so far hasshown that it achieves good recall.Acknowledgements We are grateful to Sebastian Pado?for running Shalmaneser on our data.
Thanks to Frank Kellerand Amit Dubey for insightful comments and suggestions.
Theauthors acknowledge the support of DFG (Shen; PhD stu-dentship within the International Postgraduate College ?Lan-guage Technology and Cognitive Systems?)
and EPSRC (Lap-ata; grant EP/C538447/1).ReferencesE.
Brill, S. Dumais, M. Banko.
2002.
An analysis of theaskMSR question-answering system.
In Proceedingsof the EMNLP, 257?264, Philadelphia, PA.X.
Carreras, L. Ma`rquez, eds.
2005.
Proceedings of theCoNLL shared task: Semantic role labelling, 2005.T.
Cormen, C. Leiserson, R. Rivest.
1990.
Introductionto Algorithms.
MIT Press.H.
Cui, R. X.
Sun, K. Y. Li, M. Y. Kan, T. S. Chua.2005.
Question answering passage retrieval using de-pendency relations.
In Proceedings of the ACM SIGIR,400?407.
ACM Press.T.
Eiter, H. Mannila.
1997.
Distance measures forpoint sets and their computation.
Acta Informatica,34(2):109?133.K.
Erk, S. Pado?.
2006.
Shalmaneser - a flexible toolboxfor semantic role assignment.
In Proceedings of theLREC, 527?532, Genoa, Italy.C.
Fellbaum, ed.
1998.
WordNet.
An Electronic LexicalDatabase.
MIT Press, Cambridge/Mass.C.
J. Fillmore, C. R. Johnson, M. R. Petruck.
2003.Background to FrameNet.
International Journal ofLexicography, 16:235?250.D.
Gildea, D. Jurafsky.
2002.
Automatic labeling of se-mantic roles.
Computational Linguistics, 28(3):245?288.T.
Grenager, C. D. Manning.
2006.
Unsupervised dis-covery of a statistical verb lexicon.
In Proceedings ofthe EMNLP, 1?8, Sydney, Australia.R.
Jonker, A. Volgenant.
1987.
A shortest augmentingpath algorithm for dense and sparse linear assignmentproblems.
Computing, 38:325?340.M.
Kaisser.
2006.
Web question answering by exploitingwide-coverage lexical resources.
In Proceedings of the11th ESSLLI Student Session, 203?213.J.
Leidner, J. Bos, T. Dalmas, J. Curran, S. Clark, C. Ban-nard, B. Webber, M. Steedman.
2004.
The qed open-domain answer retrieval system for TREC 2003.
InProceedings of the TREC, 595?599.C.
Leslie, E. Eskin, W. S. Noble.
2002.
The spectrumkernel: a string kernel for SVM protein classification.In Proceedings of the Pacific Biocomputing Sympo-sium, 564?575.B.
Levin.
1993.
English Verb Classes and Alternations:A Preliminary Investigation.
University of ChicagoPress, Chicago.20X.
Li, D. Roth.
2002.
Learning question classifiers.
InProceedings of the 19th COLING, 556?562, Taipei,Taiwan.D.
K. Lin.
1994.
PRINCIPAR?an efficient, broad-coverage, principle-based parser.
In Proceedings ofthe 15th COLING, 482?488.D.
Moldovan, C. Clark, S. Harabagiu, S. Maiorano.2003.
COGEX: A logic prover for question answer-ing.
In Proceedings of the HLT/NAACL, 87?93, Ed-monton, Canada.S.
Narayanan, S. Harabagiu.
2004.
Question answeringbased on semantic structures.
In Proceedings of the19th COLING, 184?191.S.
Pado?, M. Lapata.
2006.
Optimal constituent alignmentwith edge covers for semantic projection.
In Proceed-ings of the COLING/ACL, 1161?1168.M.
Palmer, D. Gildea, P. Kingsbury.
2005.
The Propo-sition Bank: An annotated corpus of semantic roles.Computational Linguistics, 31(1):71?106.D.
Paranjpe, G. Ramakrishnan, S. Srinivasa.
2003.
Pas-sage scoring for question answering via bayesian infer-ence on lexical relations.
In Proceedings of the TREC,305?210.S.
Pradhan, W. Ward, K. Hacioglu, J. Martin, D. Jurafsky.2004.
Shallow semantic parsing using support vectormachines.
In Proceedings of the HLT/NAACL, 141?144, Boston, MA.D.
Shen, D. Klakow.
2006.
Exploring correlation of de-pendency relation paths for answer extraction.
In Pro-ceedings of the COLING/ACL, 889?896.R.
X.
Sun, J. J. Jiang, Y. F. Tan, H. Cui, T. S. Chua,M.
Y. Kan. 2005.
Using syntactic and semantic re-lation analysis in question answering.
In Proceedingsof the TREC.B.
Taskar, S. Lacoste-Julien, D. Klein.
2005.
A discrim-inative matching approach to word alignment.
In Pro-ceedings of the HLT/EMNLP, 73?80, Vancouver, BC.M.
Wu, M. Y. Duan, S. Shaikh, S. Small, T. Strzalkowski.2005.
University at albany?s ilqua in trec 2005.
InProceedings of the TREC, 77?83.21
