Proceedings of the 2008 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 707?714,Honolulu, October 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsAutomatic inference of the temporal location of situations in Chinese textNianwen XueCenter for Computational Language and Education ResearchUniversity of Colorado at BoulderColorado, U.S.A.Nianwen.Xue@colorado.eduAbstractChinese is a language that does not have mor-phological tense markers that provide explicitgrammaticalization of the temporal location ofsituations (events or states).
However, in manyNLP applications such as Machine Transla-tion, Information Extraction and Question An-swering, it is desirable to make the temporallocation of the situations explicit.
We describea machine learning framework where differ-ent sources of information can be combined topredict the temporal location of situations inChinese text.
Our experiments show that thisapproach significantly outperforms the mostfrequent tense baseline.
More importantly,the high training accuracy shows promise thatthis challenging problem is solvable to a levelwhere it can be used in practical NLP applica-tions with more training data, better modelingtechniques and more informative and general-izable features.1 IntroductionIn a language like English, tense is an explicit (andmaybe imperfect) grammaticalization of the tempo-ral location of situations, and such temporal locationis either directly or indirectly defined in relation tothe moment of speech.
Chinese does not have gram-maticalized tense in the sense that Chinese verbs arenot morphologically marked for tense.
This is notto say, however, that Chinese speakers do not at-tempt to convey the temporal location of situationswhen they speak or write, or that they cannot inter-pret the temporal location when they read Chinesetext, or even that they have a different way of repre-senting the temporal location of situations.
In fact,there is evidence that the temporal location is rep-resented in Chinese in exactly the same way as it isrepresented in English and most world languages: inrelation to the moment of speech.
One piece of evi-dence to support this claim is that Chinese temporalexpressions like 8U (?today?
), ?U (?tomorrow?
)and ?U (?yesterday?)
all assume a temporal deixisthat is the moment of speech in relation to whichall temporal locations are defined.
Such temporalexpressions, where they are present, give us a clearindication of the temporal location of the situationsthey are associated with.
However, not all Chinesesentences have such temporal expressions associatedwith them.
In fact, they occur only infrequently inChinese text.
It is thus theoretically interesting toask, in the absence of grammatical tense and explicittemporal expressions, how do readers of a particularpiece of text interpret the temporal location of situa-tions?There are a few linguistic devices in Chinese thatprovide obvious clues to the temporal location ofsituations, and one such linguistic device is aspectmarkers.
Although Chinese does not have grammat-ical tense, it does have grammaticalized aspect in theform of aspect markers.
These aspect markers oftengive some indication of the temporal location of anevent.
For example, Chinese has the perfective as-pect markerand L, and they are often associatedwith the past.
Progressive aspect marker X, on theother hand, is often associated with the present.
Inaddition to aspect, certain adverbs also provide cluesto the temporal location of the situations they are as-707sociated with.
For example, ?
or ??
(?already?
),often indicates that the situation they are associatedwith has already occurred and is thus in the past.
3,another adverbial modifier, often indicates that thesituation it modifies is in the present.
However, suchlinguistic associations are imperfect, and they canonly be viewed as tendencies rather than rules thatone can use to deterministically infer the temporallocation of a situation.
For example, while ?
in-deed indicates that the situation described in (1) isin the past, when it modifies a stative verb as it doesin (1b), the situation is still in the present.
(1) a.
?he[?]already?finishTthis?8project".
?He already finished the project.?b.
?IChina[?]alreadyPkhas)produce?.?world-class^?softwareDE?:foundation".
?China already has the foundation to pro-duce world-class software.
?More importantly, only a small proportion of verbinstances in any given text have such explicit tempo-ral indicators and therefore they cannot be the wholestory in the temporal interpretation of Chinese text.It is thus theoretically interesting to go beyond theobvious and investigate what additional informationis relevant in determining the temporal location of asituation in Chinese.Being able to infer the temporal location of a situ-ation has many practical applications as well.
Forexample, this information would be highly valu-able to Machine Translation.
To translate a lan-guage like Chinese into a language like English inwhich tense is grammatically marked with inflec-tional morphemes, an MT system will have to in-fer the necessary temporal information to determinethe correct tense for verbs.
Statistical MT systems,the currently dominant research paradigm, typicallydo not address this issue directly.
As a result, whenevaluated for tense, current MT systems often per-form miserably.
For example, when a simple sen-tence like ?
?/he ?
U/tomorrow ?
?/return ??/Shanghai?
is given to Google?s state-of-the-artMachine Translation system1, it produces the out-put ?He returned to Shanghai tomorrow?, instead ofthe correct ?he will return to Shanghai tomorrow?.The past tense on the verb ?returned?
contradictsthe temporal expression ?tomorrow?.
Determiningthe temporal location is also important for an Infor-mation Extraction task that extracts events so thatthe extracted events are put in a temporal context.Similarly, for Question Answering tasks, it is alsoimportant to know whether a situation has alreadyhappened or it is going to happen, for example.In this paper, we are interested in investigatingthe kind of information that is relevant in inferringthe temporal location of situations in Chinese text.We approach this problem by manually annotatingeach verb in a Chinese document with a ?tense?
tagthat indicates the temporal location of the verb2.
Wethen formulate the tense determination problem asa classification task where standard machine learn-ing techniques can be applied.
Figuring out whatlinguistic information contributes to the determina-tion of the temporal location of a situation becomesa feature engineering problem of selecting featuresthat help with the automatic classification.
In Sec-tion 2, we present a linguistic annotation frameworkthat annotates the temporal location of situations inChinese text.
In Section 3 we describe our setupfor an automatic tense classification experiment andpresent our experimental results.
In Section 4 wefocus in on the features we have used in our exper-iment and attempt to provide a quantitative as wellas intuitive explanation of the contribution of the in-dividual features and speculate on what additionalfeatures could be useful.
In Section 5 we discussrelated work and Section 6 concludes the paper anddiscusses future work.2 Annotation frameworkIt is impossible to define the temporal loca-tion without a reference point, a temporal deixis.As we have shown in Section 1, there is con-vincing evidence from the temporal adverbialslike ?
U(?yesterday?
), 8 U(?today?)
and ?
U1http://www.google.com/language tools2For simplicity, we use the term ?tense?
exchangeably withthe temporal location of an event or situation, even though tenseusually means grammatical tense while temporal location is amore abstract semantic notion.708??tomorrow?)
that Chinese, like most if not all lan-guages of the world, use the moment of speech asthis reference point.
In written text, which is the pri-mary source of data that we are dealing with, thetemporal deixis is the document creation time.
Allsituations are temporally related to this documentcreation time except in direct quotations, where thetemporal location is relative to the moment of speechof the speaker who is quoted.In addition to the moment of speech or documentcreation time in the case of written text, ReferenceTime and Situation Time are generally accepted asimportant to determining the temporal location sinceReichenbach (1947) first proposed them.
SituationTime is the time that a situation actually occurswhile Reference time is the temporal perspectivefrom which the speaker invites his audience to con-sider the situation.
Reference Time does not nec-essarily overlap with Situation Time, as in the caseof present perfective tense, where the situation hap-pened in the past but the reader is invited to look atit from the present moment and focus on the state ofcompletion of the situation.
Reference Time is in ourjudgment too subtle to be annotated consistently andthus in our annotation scheme we only consider therelation between Situation Time and the documentcreation time when defining the temporal locationof situations.
Another key decision we made whenformulating our annotation scheme is to define anabstract ?tense?
that do not necessarily model the ac-tual tense system in any particular language that hasgrammatical tense.
In a given language, the gram-matical tense reflected in the morphological systemmay not have a one-to-one mapping between thegrammatical tense and the temporal location of a sit-uation.
For example, in an English sentence like ?Hewill call me after he gets here?, while his ?gettinghere?
happens at a time in the future, it is assignedthe present tense because it is in a clause introducedby ?after?.
It makes more sense to ask the annota-tor, who is necessarily a native speaker of Chinese,to make a judgment of the temporal location of thesituation defined in terms of the relation between theSituation Time and the moment of speech rather thanby such language-specific idiosyncracies of anotherlanguage.Temporal locations that can be defined in terms ofthe relation between Situation Time and the momentof speech are considered to be absolute tense.
Insome cases, the temporal location of a situation can-not be directly defined in relation to the moment ofspeech.
For example in (2), the temporal location ofk?
(?intend?)
cannot be determined independentlyof that of ??(?reveal?).
The temporal location ofk?
is simultaneous with ??.
If the temporallocation of ??
is in the past, then the temporallocation of k?
is also in the past.
If the temporallocation of ??
is in the future, then the temporallocation of k?
is also in the future.
In this spe-cific case, the situation denoted by the matrix verb??
is in the past.
Therefore the situation denotedby k?
is also located in the past.
(2) ?he?also?
?reveal?dRussiak?intend3in8 next?cten yearsSwithin,,?to?KIranJ?provide??weapons..
?He also revealed that Russia intended to pro-vide weapons to Iran within the next ten years.
?Therefore in our Chinese ?tense?
annotation task,we annotate both absolute and relative tenses.
Wedefine three absolute tenses based on whether the sit-uation time is anterior to (in the past), simultaneouswith (in the present), or posterior to (in the future)document creation time.
In addition to the absolutetenses, we also define one relative tense, future-in-past, which happens when a future situation is em-bedded in a past context.
We do not assign a tensetag to modal verbs or verb particles.
The set of tensetags are described in more detail below:2.1 Present tenseA situation is assigned the present tense if it is true atan interval of time that includes the present moment.The present tense is compatible with states and ac-tivities.
When non-stative situations are temporallylocated in the present, they either have an imperfec-tive aspect or have a habitual or frequentive readingwhich makes them look like states, e.g.,(3) ?he~~often?\attendroutdoors??activities".
?He often attends outdoors activities.
?7092.2 Past tenseSituations that happen before the moment of speech(or the document creation time) are temporally lo-cated in the past as in (4):(4) ?
?Chinese<personnel9and{?Chinese nationalsSsafely?lwithdraw from?Chad".
?Chinese personnel and Chinese nationalssafely withdrew from Chad.
?2.3 Future tenseSituations that happen posterior to the moment ofspeech are temporally located in the future.
Futuresituations are not simply the opposite of past situa-tions.
While past situations have already happenedby definition, future situations by nature are charac-terized by uncertainty.
That is, future situations mayor may not happen.
Therefore, future situations areoften linked to possibilities, not just to situations thatwill definitely happen.
A example of future tense isgiven in (5):(5) ?
?conference?cnext year3in#\?Singapore?1hold".
?The conference will be held in Singapore nextyear.
?2.4 Future-in-pastThe temporal interpretation of one situation is oftenbound by the temporal location of another situation.One common scenario in which this kind of depen-dency occurs is when the target situation, the situa-tion we are interested in at the moment, is embeddedin a reference situation as its complement.
Just as theabsolute ?tense?
represents a temporal relation be-tween the situation time and the moment of speechor document creation time, the relative ?tense?
rep-resents a relation between the temporal location of asituation and its reference situation.
Although theo-retically the target situation can be anterior to, simul-taneous with, or posterior to the reference situation,we only have a special tense label when the targetsituation is posterior to the reference situation andthe reference situation is located in the past.
In thiscase the label for the target situation is future-in-pastas illusrated in (6):(6) ?icompany?personnel??reveal5?
(S2Star 26???trial?version=?soon?
?face the world".
?The company personnel revealed that ?Star 2?trial version would soon face the world.
?2.5 No tense labelModals and verb particles do not receive a tense la-bel:(7) ???Kosovo??independence?Umay?ucause??riot?.??IUN<personnel?alreadyOprepare?lwithdraw".
?Kosovo independence may cause riot.
UNpersonnel have already prepared to leave.
?The ?situations?
that we are interested in are ex-pressed as clauses centered around a verb, and forthe sake of convenience we mark the ?tense?
onthe verb itself instead of the entire clause.
How-ever, when inferring the temporal location of a sit-uation, we have to take into consideration the en-tire clause, because the arguments and modifiers ofa verb are just as important as the verb itself whendetermining the temporal location of the situation.The annotation is performed on data selected fromthe Chinese Treebank (Xue et al, 2005), and moredetailed descriptions and justifications for the anno-tation scheme is described in (Xue et al, 2008).
Dataselection is important for tense annotation because,unlike POS-tagging and syntactic annotation, whichapplies equally well to different genres of text, tem-poral annotation in more relevant in some genresthan others.
The data selection task is made eas-ier by the fact that the Chinese Treebank is alreadyannotated with POS tags and Penn Treebank-stylesyntactic structures.
Therefore we were able to justselect articles based on how many constituents in thearticle are annotated with the temporal function tag-TMP.
We have annotated 42 articles in total, andall verbs in an article are assigned one of the fivetags described above: present, past, future, future-in-past, and none.7103 Experimental resultsThe tense determination task is then a simple five-way classification task.
Theoretically any standardmachine learning algorithm can be applied to thetask.
For our purposes we used the Maximum En-tropy algorithm implemented as part of the Malletmachine learning package (McCallum, 2002) for itscompetitive training time and performance tradeoff.There might be algorithms that could achieve higherclassification accuracy, but our goal in this paper isnot to pursue the absolute high performance.
Rather,our purpose is to investigate what information whenused as features is relevant to determining the tem-poral location of a situation in Chinese, so that thesefeatures can be used to design high performancepractical systems in the future.The annotation of 42 articles yielded 5709 verbinstances, each of which is annotated with one ofthe five tense tags.
For our automatic classificationexperiments, we randomly divided the data into atraining set and a test set based on a 3-to-1 ratio, sothat the training data has 4,250 instances while thetest set has 1459 instances.
As expected, the pasttense is the most frequent tense in both the trainingand test data, although they vary quite a bit in theproportions of verbs that are labeled with the pasttense.
In the training data, 2145, or 50.5% of theverb instances are labeled with the past tense whilein the test data, 911 or 62.4% of the verb instancesare labeled with the past tense.
The 62.4% can thusbe used as a baseline when evaluating the automaticclassification accuracy.
This is a very high baselinegiven that the much smaller proportion of verbs thatare assigned the past tense in the training data.Instead of raw text, the input to the classifica-tion algorithm is parsed sentences from the ChineseTreebank that has the syntactic structure informationas well as the part-of-speech tags.
As we will showin the next section, information extracted from theparse tree as well as the part-of-speech tags prove tobe very important in determining the temporal loca-tion of a situation.
The reason for using ?correct?parse trees in the Chinese Treebank is to factor outnoises that are inevitable in the output of an auto-matic parser and evaluate the contribution of syntac-tic information in the ?ideal?
scenario.
In a realisticsetting, one of course has to use an automatic parser.The results are presented in Table 1.
The overallaccuracy is 67.1%, exceeding the baseline of choos-ing the most frequent tense in the test, which is62.4%.
It is worth noting that the training accu-racy is fairly high, 93%, and there is a steep drop-offfrom the training accuracy to the test accuracy al-though this is hardly unexpected given the relativelysmall training set.
The high training accuracy never-theless attests the relevance of the features we havechosen for the classification, which we will look atin greater detail in the next section.tense precision recall f-scorepresent 0.51 0.62 0.56past 0.75 0.81 0.78future 0.33 0.45 0.38future-in-past 0.76 0.18 0.30none 0.86 0.83 0.84overall 0.93 (train), 0.671 (test)Table 1: Experimental results4 What information is useful?Our classification algorithm scans the verbs in a sen-tence one at a time, from left to right.
Featuresare extracted from the context of the verb in theparse tree as well as from previous verbs the tenseof which have already been examined.
We view fea-tures for the classification algorithm as informationthat contributes to the determination of the temporallocation of situations in the absence of morpholog-ical markers of tense.
The features we used for theclassification task can all be extracted from a parsetree and the POS information of a word.
They aredescribed below:?
Verb Itself: The character string of the verbs,e.g., Pk(?own?
), ?(?be?
), etc.?
Verb POS: The part-of-speech tag of the verb,as defined in the Chinese Treebank.
There arethree POS tags for verbs, VE for existentialverbs such as k(?have, exist?
), VC for cop-ula verbs like ?(?be?
), VA for stative verbs likep(?tall?
), and VV for all other verbs.?
Position of verb in compound: If the targetverb is part of a verb compound, the position711of the compound is used as a feature in com-bination with the compound type.
The possi-ble values for the position are first and last, andthe compound type is one of the six defined inthe Chinese Treebank: VSB, VCD, VRD, VCP,VNV, and VPT.
An example feature might be?last+VRD?.?
Governing verb and its tense: Chinese is anSVO language, and the governing verb, if thereis one, is on the left and is higher up in the tree.Since we are scanning verbs in a sentence fromleft to right, the tense for the governing verb isavailable at the time we look at the target verb.So we are using the character string of the gov-erning verb as well as its tense as features.
Incases where there are multiple levels of embed-ding and multiple governing verbs, we selectthe closest governing verb.?
Left ADV: Adverbial modifiers of the targetverb are generally on the left side of the verb,therefore we are only extracting adverbs on theleft.
We first locate the adverbial phrases andthen find the head of the adverbial phrase anduse character string of the head as feature.?
Left NT: NT is a POS in the Chinese Treebankfor nominal expressions that are used as tem-poral modifiers of a verb.
The procedure forextracting the NT modifers is similar to the pro-cedure for finding adverbial modifiers, the onlydifference being that we are looking for NPsheaded by nouns POS-tagged NT.?
Left PP: Like adverbial modifiers, PP modifiersare also generally left modifiers of a verb.
Ifthere is a PP modifier, the character string ofthe head preposition combined with the char-acter string of the head noun of its NP com-plement is used as a feature, e.g., ?3+?m?(?at+period?).?
Left LC: Left localizer phrases.
Localizersphrases are also called post-positions by someand they function similarly as left PP modifiers.If the target verb has a left localizer phrasemodifier and the character string of its head isused as a feature, e.g., ?5(?since?).?
Left NN: This feature is intended to capture thehead of the subject NP.
The character string ofthe head of the NP is used as a feature.?
Aspect marker.
Aspect markers are grammati-calizations of aspect and they immediately fol-low the verb.
If the target verb is associatedwith an aspect marker, the character string ofthat aspect marker is used as a feature, e.g.,??.?
DER: DER is the POS tag for , a charac-ter which introduces a resultative constructionwhen following a verb.
When it occurs togetherwith the target verb, it is used as a feature.?
Quantifier in object: When there is a quantifierin the NP object for the target verb, its characterstring is used as a feature.?
Quotation marks: Finally the quotation marksare used as a feature when they are used toquote the clause that contains the target verb.We performed an ablation evaluation of the fea-tures to see how effective each feature type is.
Ba-sically, we took out each feature type, retrained theclassifier and reran the classifier on the test data.
Theaccuracy without each of the feature types are pre-sented in Table 2.
The features are ranked from themost effective to the least effective.
Features thatlead to the most drop-off when they are taken out ofthe classification algorithm are considered to be themost effective.
As shown in Table 2, the most ef-fective features are the governing verb and its tense,while the least effective features are the quantifiersin the object.
Most of the features are lexicalizedin that the character strings of words are used asfeatures.
When lexicalized features are used, fea-tures that appear in the training data do not neces-sarily appear in the test data and vice versa.
Thisprovides a partial explanation of the large discrep-ancy between the training and test accuracy.
In or-der to reduce this discrepancy, one would have touse a larger training set, or make the features moregeneralized.
Some of these features can in fact begeneralized or normalized.
For example, a temporalmodifier such as the date ?1987?
can be reduced tosomething like ?before the document creation time?,and this is something that we will experiment with in712our future work.
The training set used here is suffi-cient to show the efficacy of the features, but to im-prove the tense classification to a satisfactory levelof accuracy, more training data need to be annotated.Feature accuracy (w/o)Governing verb/tense 0.620verb itself 0.635Verb POS 0.656Position verb in compound 0.656left ADV 0.657left NT 0.657Quotation mark 0.657left PP 0.663left LC 0.664Right DER 0.665Aspect marker 0.665left NN 0.665Quantifier in object 0.669overall 0.671 (test)Table 2: Feature PerformanceFeatures like adverbial, prepositional, localizerphrase modifiers and temporal noun modifiers pro-vide explicit temporal information that is relevant indetermining the temporal location.
The role of thegoverning verb in determining the temporal locationof a situation is also easy to understand.
As we haveshown in Section 2, when the target verb occurs in anembedded clause, its temporal location is necessar-ily affected by the temporal location of the govern-ing verb of this embedded clause because the tempo-ral location of the former is often defined in relationto that of the latter.
Not surprisingly, the governingverb proves to be the most effective feature.
Quota-tion marks in written text change the temporal deixisfrom the document creation time to the moment ofspeech of the quoted speaker, and the temporal lo-cation in quoted speech does not follow the samepatterns as target verbs in embedded clauses.
As-pect markers are tied closely to tense, even thoughthe contributions they made are small due to theirrare occurrences in text.The relevance of other features are less obvious.The target verb itself and its POS made the mostcontribution other than the governing verb.
It is im-portant to understand why they are effective or use-ful at all.
In a theoretic work on the temporal inter-pretation of verbs in languages like Chinese whichlacks tense morphology, Smith and Erbaugh (2005)pointed out that there is a default interpretation forbounded and unbounded situations.
Specifically,bounded situations are temporally located in the pastby default while unbounded situations are locatedin the future.
The default interpretation, by defini-tion, can be overwritten when there is explicit evi-dence to the contrary.
Recast in statistical terms, thismeans that bounded events have a tendency to be lo-cated in the past while unbounded events have a ten-dency to be located in the present, and this tendencycan be quantified in a machine-learning framework.Boundedness has many surface manifestations thatcan be directly observed, and one of them is whetherthe verb is stative or dynamic.
The target verb it-self and its POS tag represents this information.
Re-sultatives in the form of resultative verb compoundand the DER construction, quantifiers in the objectare other surface reflections of the abstract notionof boundedness.
The fact that these features havecontributed to the determination of the temporal lo-cation of situations to certain extent lends support toSmith?s theoretical claim.5 Related workInferring the temporal location is a difficult problemthat is not yet very well understood.
It has not beenstudied extensively in the context of Natural Lan-guage Processing.
Olson et al(2000; 2001) realizedthe importance of using the aspectual information(both grammatical and lexical aspect) to infer tensein the context of a Chinese-English Machine Trans-lation system.
They encoded the aspectual informa-tion such as telicity as part of the Lexical ConceptualStructure and use it to heuristically infer tense whengenerating the English output.
This rule-based ap-proach is not very suited for modeling the tempo-ral location information in Chinese.
As they them-selves noted, aspectual information can only be usedas a tendency rather than a deterministic rule.
Webelieve this problem can be better modeled in a ma-chine learning framework where different sources ofinformation, each one being imperfect, can be com-bined based on their effectiveness to provide a morereasonable overall prediction.713Ye (2007) did approach this problem with ma-chine learning techniques.
She used Chinese-English parallel data to manually map the tense in-formation from English to Chinese and trained aConditional Random Field classifier to make predic-tions about tense.
She used only a limited number ofsurface cues such as temporal adverbials and aspectmarkers as features and did not attempt to modelthe lexical aspect information such as boundedness,which we believe would have helped her system per-formance.
Her data appeared to have a much largerpercentage of verb instances that have the past tenseand thus her results are mostly incomparable withthat of ours.6 Conclusion and future workWe have defined the automatic inference of the tem-poral location of situations in Chinese text as a ma-chine learning problem and demonstrated that a lotmore information in the form of features contributesto the solution of this challenging problem than pre-viously realized.
The accuracy on the held-out testis a significant improvement over the baseline, theproportion of verbs assigned the most frequent tense(the past tense).
Although there is a large drop-offfrom the training accuracy to the test accuracy dueto the lexical nature of the features, the high trainingaccuracy does show promise that this challengingproblem is solvable with a larger training set, bet-ter modeling techniques and more refined features.In the future we will attempt to solve this problemalong these lines and work toward a system that canbe used in practical applications.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank Hua Zhong and Kaiyun Chenfor their efforts to annotate the data used in our ex-periments.
Without their help this work would ofcourse be impossible.ReferencesAndrew Kachites McCallum.
2002.
Mal-let: A machine learning for language toolkit.http://mallet.cs.umass.edu.Mari Olson, David Traum, Carol Vaness Dykema, AmyWeinberg, and Ron Dolan.
2000.
Telicity as a cue totemporal and discourse structure in Chinese-EnglishMachine Translation.
In Proceedings of NAACL-ANLP 2000 Workshop on Applied interlinguas: prac-tical applications of interlingual approaches to NLP,pages 34?41, Seattle Washington.Mari Olson, David Traum, Carol Vaness Dykema, andAmy Weinberg.
2001.
Implicit cues for explicit gen-eration: using telicity as a cue for tense structure ina Chinese to English MT system.
In Proceedings ofMachine Translation Summit VIII, Santiago de Com-postela, Spain.Hans Reichenbach.
1947.
Elements of Symbolic Logic.The MacMillan Company, New York.Carlota S. Smith and Mary Erbaugh.
2005.
Tempo-ral interpretation in Mandarin Chinese.
Linguistics,43(4):713?756.Nianwen Xue, Fei Xia, Fu dong Chiou, and MarthaPalmer.
2005.
The Penn Chinese TreeBank: PhraseStructure Annotation of a Large Corpus.
Natural Lan-guage Engineering, 11(2):207?238.Nianwen Xue, Zhong Hua, and Kai-Yun Chen.
2008.Annotating ?tense?
in a tenseless language.
In Pro-ceedings of the Fifth International Conference on Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation, Marrakech, Mo-rocco.Yang Ye.
2007.
Automatica Tense and Aspect Transla-tion between Chinese and English.
Ph.D. thesis, Uni-versity of Michigan.714
