Proceedings of the 2009 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 1046?1055,Singapore, 6-7 August 2009.c?2009 ACL and AFNLPGazpacho and summer rash:lexical relationships from temporal patterns of web search queriesEnrique Alfonseca Massimiliano Ciaramita Keith HallGoogleZ?urich, Switzerlandealfonseca@google.com, massi@google.com, kbhall@google.comAbstractIn this paper we investigate temporal pat-terns of web search queries.
We carry outseveral evaluations to analyze the proper-ties of temporal profiles of queries, reveal-ing promising semantic and pragmatic re-lationships between words.
We focus ontwo applications: query suggestion andquery categorization.
The former showsa potential for time-series similarity mea-sures to identify specific semantic relat-edness between words, which results instate-of-the-art performance in query sug-gestion while providing complementaryinformation to more traditional distribu-tional similarity measures.
The query cat-egorization evaluation suggests that thetemporal profile alone is not a strong in-dicator of broad topical categories.1 IntroductionThe temporal patterns of word occurrences in hu-man communication carry an implicit measure oftheir relationship to real-world events and behav-ioral patterns.
For example, when there is an eventaffecting a given entity (such as a natural disasterin a country), the entity name will turn up morefrequently in human conversation, newswire arti-cles and web documents; and people will searchfor it more often.
Two entities that are closelyrelated in the real world, such as the name of acountry and a prominent region inside the coun-try are likely to share common events and there-fore be closely associated in human communica-tion.
Finally, two instances of the same classare also likely to share common usage patterns.For example, names of airlines or retail stores aremore likely to be used by day rather than by night(Chien, 2005).In this paper we explore the linguistic relation-ship between phrases that are judged to be sim-ilar based on their frequency time series correla-tion in search query logs.
For every phrase1avail-able in WordNet 3.02(Miller, 1995), we have ob-tained its temporal signature from query logs, andcalculated all their pairwise correlations.
Next,we study the relationship in the top-ranked pairswith respect to their distribution in WordNet and ahuman-annotated labelling.We also discuss possible applications of thisdata to solve open problems and present the resultsof two experiments: one where time series corre-lations turned out to be highly discriminative; andanother where they were not particularly informa-tive but shed some light on the nature of temporalsemantics and topical categorization:?
Query suggestion, i.e.
given a query, generatea ranked list of alternative queries in whichthe user may be interested.?
Query categorization, i.e.
given a predefinedset of categories, find the top categories towhich the query can be assigned.Finally, we illustrate with an example another ap-plication of time series in solving information ex-traction problems.Although query logs are typically proprietarydata, there are ongoing initiatives, like the Lemurtoolbar3, which make this kind of informationavailable for research purposes.
Other work(Bansal and Koudas, 2007b; Bansal and Koudas,2007a) shows that temporal information can alsobe extracted from public data, such as blogs.
Moretraditional types of text, such as news, are also typ-ically associated with temporal labels; e.g., datesand timestamps.This paper is structured in the following way:1We use the term phrase to refer to any single word ormulti-word expression that belongs to a synset in WordNet.Examples of phrases are person, causal entity or williamshakespeare.
We focused on the nouns hierarchy only.2http://wordnet.princeton.edu3http://www.lemurproject.org/querylogtoolbar/1046Section 2 summarizes the related work.
Section 3describes the correlation analysis between all pairsof phrases from WordNet.
Next, Section 4 de-scribes the application to query suggestion, andSection 5 the application to labelling queries intopical categories.
Section 7 summarizes the con-clusions and outlines ideas for future research.2 Related workThe study of query time series explores a particu-lar instance of the so-called wisdom of the crowdseffect.
Within this area, we can distinguish twokinds of phenomena.
Knowledge and resourcesassembled by people explicitly, either individu-ally, such as the case of blogs, or in a collabora-tive way, as in forums or wikis.
These resourcesare valuable for human-consumption and can alsobe exploited in order to learn computational re-sources (Medelyan et al, 2008; Weld et al, 2008;Zesch et al, 2008b; Zesch et al, 2008a).
Onthe other hand, it is possible to acquire useful re-sources and knowledge from aggregating behav-ioral patterns of large groups of people, even inthe absence of a conscious effort.
There is exten-sive ongoing research on the use of web searchusage patterns to develop knowledge resources.Some examples are clustering co-click patterns tolearn semantically related queries (Beeferman andBerger, 2000), combining co-click patterns withhitting times (Mei et al, 2008), analyzing queryrevisions made by users when querying search en-gines (Jones et al, 2006), replacing query wordswith other words that have the highest pointwisemutual information (Terra and Clarke, 2004), orusing the temporal distribution of words in docu-ments to improve ranking of search results (Jonesand Diaz, 2007).Within this second category, an important areais dedicated to the study of time-related featuresof search queries.
News aggregators use real-timefrequencies of user queries to detect spikes andidentify news shortly after the spikes occur (Mu-rata, 2008).
Web users?
query patterns have alsoproved useful for building a real-time surveillancesystem that accurately estimates region-by-regioninfluenza activity with a lag of one day (Ginsberget al, 2009).
Search engines specifically devel-oped for real-time searches, like Twitter search,will most likely provide new use cases and sce-narios for quickly detecting trends in user searchquery patterns.Figure 1: Time series obtained for the queries[gazpacho] and [summertime] (normalizedscales).Our study builds upon the work of Chien(2005), who observed that queries with highly-correlated temporal usage patterns are typicallysemantically related, and described a procedurefor calculating the correlations efficiently.
Wehave extended the analysis described in this work,by performing a more extensive evaluation of thekinds of semantic relationships that we can findamong temporally-similar queries.
We also pro-pose, to our knowledge for the first time, areasof applications in solving well-established prob-lems which shed some light on the nature of time-based semantic similarity.
This work is also re-lated to the analysis of temporal properties ofinformation streams in data mining (Kleinberg,2006) and information retrieval from time seriesdatabases (Agrawal et al, 1993).3 Time-based similarities betweenphrasesSimilarly to the method described in Chien (2005),we take a time interval, divide it into equallyspaced subintervals, and represent each phrase ofinterest as the sequence of frequencies with whichthe phrase was observed in the subintervals.
Inour experiments, we have used as source datathe set of fully anonymized query logs from theGoogle search engine between January 1st, 2004and March 1st, 2009.4.These data have been aggregated on a daily ba-sis so that we have the daily frequency of the4Part of this data is publicly available from http://www.google.com/trends1047queries of interest for over five years.
The frequen-cies are then normalized with the total number ofqueries that happened on that day.
The normaliza-tion is necessary to avoid daily and seasonal varia-tions as there are typically more queries on week-days than on weekends and fewer queries duringholiday seasons than in the rest of the year.
Italso helps reducing the effect deriving from thefact that the population with Internet access is stillmonotonically growing, so we can expect that thenumber of queries will become higher and higherover time.Given two phrases and their associated time se-ries, the similarity metric used is the correlationcoefficient between the two series (Chien, 2005).For illustration, Figure 1 shows the time series ob-tained for two sample queries, gazpacho and sum-mertime, whose time series yield a correlation of0.92.
Similar high correlations can be observedwith other queries related to phenomena that oc-cur mainly in summer in the countries from whichmost queries come, like summer rash.3.1 WordNet-based evaluationIn this section, we describe a study carried outwith the purpose of discovering the traditionallexico-semantic relationships which hold betweenthe queries that are most strongly related accord-ing to their temporal profiles.For this evaluation, we have taken the nomi-nal phrases appearing in WordNet 3.0.
Given thatusers, when writing queries, typically do not payattention to punctuation and case, we have normal-ized all phrases by lowercasing them and remov-ing all punctuation.
Next, we collected the time se-ries for each phrase by computing the normalizeddaily frequency of each of them as exact queriesin the query logs.
The computation of the pair-wise correlations was performed in parallel usingthe MapReduce infrastructure running over 2048cores with 500 MB of RAM each.
The total ex-ecution (including data shuffling and networkingtime) took approximately three hours.Next, we represented the data as a completegraph where phrases are nodes and the edge be-tween each pair of nodes is weighted by their timeseries correlation.
Using a simple graph-cut weobtained clusters of related terms.
A minimumweight threshold equal to 0.9 was applied;5thus,5This threshold is the same used by Chien (2005), and wasconfirmed after a manual inspection of a sample of the datatwo phrases belong to the same cluster if there isa path between them only via edges with weightover 0.9.The previous procedure produced a set of 604clusters, with highly different sizes.
The first ob-servation is that 70% of the phrases in WordNetdo not have a correlation over 0.9 with any otherphrase, so they are placed alone in singleton clus-ters.
There are several reasons for this.
The clus-ters obtained are very specific: only phrases thathave a very strong temporal association have tem-poral correlations exceeding the threshold.
This iscombined with the fact that we are using a veryrestricted vocabulary, namely the terms includedin WordNet, which is many orders of magnitudesmaller than the vocabulary of all possible queriesfrom the users.
Few phrase pairs in WordNethave a temporal association and popularity strongenough to be clustered together.
Finally, many ofthe phrases in WordNet are rare, including scien-tific names of animals and plants, genuses or fami-lies, which are not commonly used.
Therefore, theclusters extracted here correspond to very salientsets of phrases.
If, instead of WordNet, we choosea vocabulary from known user queries (cf.
Sec-tion 4), there would be many fewer singleton clus-ters, as the options of similar phrases to choosefrom would be much larger.From the phrases that belong to clusters, 25%of the WordNet phrases do not have strong dailytemporal profiles.
The typical pattern for theseterms is an almost flat time series, usually withsmall drops at summertime and Christmas (whenseasonal leisure-related queries dominate).
There-fore, these phrases were collected in just one clus-ter containing them all.
Typical examples of theelements of this set are names of famous scientistsand mathematicians (Gauss, Isaac Newton, Al-bert Einstein, Thomas Alva Edison, Hipprocrates,Gregor Mendel, ...), common terms (fertilization,famine, macroeconomics, genus, nationalism, ...),numbers and common first names, among otherthings.
It is possible that using sub-day intervalsmight help to discriminate within this cluster.The items in this big cluster contrast with pe-riodical events, which display recurring patterns(e.g., queries related to elections or tax-returns),and names of famous people and other entitieswhich appeared in the news in the past few years.All of these are associated with irregular, spikytime series.
These constitute the final 5% of the1048Type Pairs ExamplesSynonyms 283 (angel cake, angel food cake), (thames, river thames), (armistice day, Nov 11)Hyponym/hyperonyms 86 (howard hughes, aviator), (muhammad, prophet), (olga korbut, gymnast)Siblings in hyponym taxonomy 611 (hiroshima, nagasaki), (junior school, primary school), (aids, welt)Meronym/holonyms 53 (tutsi, rwanda), (july 4, july), (pyongyang, north korea)Siblings in meronymy taxonomy 7 (everglades, everglades national park), (mississipi, orleans)Other paths 471 (maundy thursday, maundy money), (tap water, water tap), (gren party, liberal)Not structurally related 1009 (poppy, veterans day), (olympic games, gimnast), (belmont park, horse racing)Table 1: Relationships between pairs of WordNet phrases belonging to the same cluster.phrases belonging to small, highly focused, clus-ters.Table 1 shows the relationships that hold be-tween all pairs of phrases belonging to any of thesmaller clusters.
Out of 2520 pairs, 283 belongto the same synset, 697 are related via hyponymylinks, 60 via meronymy links, and 471 by alternat-ing hyponymy and meronymy links in the path.When the phrases were polysemous, the short-est path between any of their meaning was used.About 40% of the relations do not have a clearstructural interpretation in WordNet.The majority of pairs are related via more orless complex paths in the WordNet graph.
Inter-estingly, even the structurally unrelated terms arecharacterized by transparent relations in terms ofworld knowledge, as it is the case between poppyand veteran day.
Note as well that sometimes aWordNet term is used with a meaning not presentin WordNet or in a different language, which mayexplain why aids has a very high correlation withwelt (AIDS and welt are both hyponyms of healthproblem, but the correlation may be explained bet-ter by the AIDS World Day, Welt Aids Tag in Ger-man), and it also has a very high correlation withsida, defined in WordNet as a genus of tropicalherbs, but which is in fact the translation of AIDSinto Spanish.
These observations motivated an ad-ditional manual labelling of the extracted pairs.3.2 Hand labelled evaluationAs can be seen in Table 2, most of the terms thatconstitute a cluster are related to each other, al-though the kinds of semantic relationships thathold between them can vary significantly.
Exam-ples of the following kinds can be observed:?
True synonyms, as in the case of novemberand nov, or architeuthis and giant squid.?
Variations of people names, especially if aperson?s first name or surname is typicallyused to refer to that person, as in the case ofjohn lennon and lennon, or janis joplin andjoplin.
Sometimes the variations include per-sonal titles, as it is the case of president carterand president nixon, which are highly corre-lated with jimmy carter and richard nixon.?
Geographically-related terms, referring tolocations which are located close to eachother, as in the clusters {korea, north ko-rean, south korea, pyongyang, north korea}and {strasbourg, grenoble, toulouse, poitiers,lyon, lille, nantes, reims}.?
Synonyms of location names, like bahrainand bahrein.?
Derived words, like north korea and northkorean, or lebanese and lebanon.?
Generic word optionalizations, which hap-pen when one word in a multi-word phraseis very correlated to the phrase, as in thecase of spanish inquisition and inquisition,or red bone marrow and red marrow, wherethe most common interpretation for the short-ened version of the phrase is the same as forthe long version.?
Word reordering, where the two relatedphrases have the same words in a different or-der, as in the case of maple sugar and sugarmaple, or oil palm and palm oil.?
Morphological variants: WordNet does notcontain many morphological variants in themain dataset, but there are a few, like stationof the cross and stations of the cross.?
Acronyms, like federal emergency manage-ment agency and fema.?
Hyperonym-hyponym, like fern and plant.?
Sibling terms in a taxonomy, as in the clus-ter {lutheran, methodist, presbyterian, unitedmethodist church, lutheran church,methodistchurch, presbyterian church,baptist, baptistchurch}, which contains mostly names ofChristian denominations.?
Co-occurring events in time, as is the caseof hitch and pacifier, both titles of movieswhich were launched at almost the same1049hydrant,fire hydrantinauguration day,inauguration,swearing,investiture,inaugural address,inaugural,benediction,oathindulgence,self indulgenceinsulation,heatinginterstate highway,interstate, intestine,small intestineiq,iq testirish people,irish,irish potato,irish gaelic,gaelic,irish soda bread,irish stew,st patrick,saint patrick,leprechaun,march 17,irish whiskey,shillelaghironsides,old ironsidesjames,joyce,james joycejanis joplin,joplinjesus christ,pilate,pontius pilate,passion of christ,passion,aramaicjewish new year,rosh hashana,rosh hashanah,shofarjohn lennon,lennonjulep,mint julep,kentucky derby,kentuckykeynote,keynote addresskickoff,time offkorea,north korean,south korea,pyongyang,north koreal ron hubbard,scientologyleap,leap year,leap day,february 29left brain,right brainleftover,leftovers,turkey stewlinseed oil,linseedlisteria,listeriosis,maple leaflobster tail,lobster,tailslohan,lindsayloire,rhone,rhone alpeslooking,looking forlutheran,methodist,presbyterian,united methodist church,lutheran church,methodist church,presbyterian church,baptist,baptist churchmahatma gandhi,mahatmamalignant hyperthermia,hyperthermiamaple sugar,sugar maplemartin luther,martin luther king,luther,martin,martin luther king daymatzo,matzah,matzoh,passover,seder,matzo meal,pesach,haggadah,gefilte fishmestizo,half blood,half and halfmeteorology,weather bureaumoslem,muslim,prophet,mohammed,mohammad,muhammad,mahometmovie star,star,revenge,film star,menace,george lucasmt st helens,mount saint helens,mount st helensmyeloma,multiple myelomaness,loch ness,loch ness monster,loch,nessienew guinea,papua new guinea,papuanovember,novpacifier,hitchpapa,pope,vatican,vatican city,karol wojtyla,john paul ii,holy see,pius xii,papacy,paul vi,john xxiii,the holy see,vatican ii,pontiff,gulp,pater,nostradamus,ii,pontifexparietal lobe,glioma,malignant tumorparticle accelerator,atom smasher,hadron,large,tallulah bankhead,bankhead,tannerpledge,allegiancepresident carter,jimmy carterpresident nixon,richard nixon,richard m nixonsept 11,september 11,sep 11,twin towers,wtc,ground zero,world trade centerslum,millionaire,pintostrasbourg,grenoble,toulouse,poitiers,lyon,lille,nantes,reimsvalentine,valentine day,february 14,romanticaeon,fluxalien,predatoranne hathaway,hathawayarchiteuthis,giant squidbasal temperature,basal body temperatureexecution,saddam hussein,hussein,saddam,hanging,husainflood,floodinggeorge herbert walker bush,george walker bushintifada,palestinemay 1,may day,maypoleTable 2: Sample of clusters obtained from the temporal correlations.1050Type ClustersTrue synonyms 19Variations of people names 42People names with and without titles 4First name and surname from the same person 4Geographically-related terms 18Synonyms of location names 4Derived words 4Word optionalizations 87Word reordering 7Morphological variants 1Acronyms 1Cross-language synonyms 3Hyperonym/hyponym 10Sibling terms 10Co-ocurring events in time 8Topically related 38Unrelated 72Table 3: Results of the manual annotation of 2-item clusters.time.
A particular example of this is whenthe two terms are part of a named entity, as inthe case of quantum and solace, which havea similar correlation because they appear to-gether in a movie title.?
Topically-related terms, as the cluster{jesus christ, pilate, pontius pilate, passion ofchrist, passion, aramaic}, or the cluster con-taining popes and the Vatican.
A similar ex-ample, execution is highly correlated to sad-dam hussein, because his execution attractedmore interest worldwide during this time pe-riod than any other execution.
Interestingly,topical correlation emerges at very specificgranularity.For the manual analysis of the results, we ran-domly selected 332 clusters containing only twoitems (so that 664 phrases were considered in to-tal).
Each of these pairs has been classified in oneof the previous categories.
The results of this anal-ysis are shown in Table 3.4 Application to query suggestionQuery suggestion is a feature of search enginesthat helps users reformulate queries in order to bet-ter describe their information need with the pur-pose of reducing the time needed to find the de-sired information (Beeferman and Berger, 2000;Kraft and Zien, 2004; Sahami and Heilman, 2006;Cucerzan and White, 2007; Yih and Meek, 2008).In this section, we explore the application of a sim-ilarity metric based on time series correlations forfinding related queries to suggest to the users.As a test set, we have used the query sugges-Method P@1 P@3 P@5 mAPRandom 0.37 0.37 0.37 0.43Web Kernel 0.51 0.47 0.42 0.51Dist.
simil.
0.72 0.63 0.60 0.64Time series 0.74 0.63 0.53 0.67Combination 0.79 0.68 0.60 0.69Table 4: Results for the query suggestion task.tion dataset from (Alfonseca et al, 2009).
It con-tains a set of 57 queries and an average of 22 can-didate query suggestions for each of them.
Eachsuggestion was rated by two human raters usingthe 5-point Likert scale defined in (Sahami andHeilman, 2006), from irrelevant to highly relevant.The task involves providing a ranking of the sug-gestions that most closely resembles the humanscores.
The evaluation is based on standard IRmetrics: precision at 1, 3 and 5, and mean averageprecision.
In order to compute the precision- andrecall-based metrics, we infer a binary distinctionfrom the ratings: related or not related.
The inter-annotator agreement for this dataset given the bi-nary classification as computed by Cohen?s Kappais 0.6171.We used three baselines: the average values thatwould be produced by a random scorer of the can-didate suggestions, Sahami and Heilman (2006)?ssystem (based on calculating similarities betweenthe retrieved snippets), and a recent competitiveranker based on calculating standard distributionalsimilarities (Alfonseca et al, 2009) between theoriginal query and the suggestion.
Please refer tothe referenced work for details.In order to produce the ranked lists of candi-date suggestions for each query, due to the lack oftraining data, we have opted for the unsupervisedprocedure described in the previous section:1.
Collect the daily time series of each of thequeries and the candidate suggestions.2.
Calculate the correlation between the originalquery and each of the candidate suggestionsprovided for it, and use it as the candidate?sscore.3.
For each query, rank its candidate sugges-tions in decreasing order of correlation.Finally, taking into account that the source ofsimilarity is very different to the one used for dis-tributional similarity, we tested the hypothesis that1051a combination of the two techniques would be ben-eficial to capture different features of the queriesand suggestions.
We have trained a linear mixturemodel combining both scores (time series and dis-tributional similarities), using 10-fold cross vali-dation.The results are displayed in Table 4.
For eval-uating the results, whenever a system produced atie between several suggestions, we generated 100random orderings of the elements in the tie, andreport the average scores.Using distributional similarities and the tempo-ral series turned out to be indistinguishable for theprecision scores at 0.95 confidence, and both aresignificantly better than the similarity metric basedon the web kernel.
The combination produced animprovement across all metrics, although not sta-tistically significant at p=0.05.This is quite a positive finding as the time seriesmethod relies on stored information requiring onlysimple and highly optimized lookups.5 Application to query categorizationThe results from the manual evaluation in Sec-tion 3.2 support the conclusion that time seriesfrom query logs provide powerful signals for clus-tering at a fine-grained level, in some cases un-covering synonyms (may 1st, may day) and evencausal relations (insulation, heating).
A naturalquestion is if temporal information is correlatedwith other types of categorizations.
In this sec-tion we carry out a preliminary exploration of therelation between query time series and query cat-egorization.
To this extent we adapt the data fromthe KDD 2005 CUP (Li et al, 2005), which pro-vides a set of queries classified into 67 broad topi-cal categories.
Since the data is rather sparse (678queries) we applied Fourier analysis to ?smooth?the time series.5.1 The KDD CUP dataThe KDD Cup 20056introduced a query catego-rization task and dataset consisting of 800,000 un-labeled queries for unsupervised training, and anevaluation set of 911 queries, 111 for developmentand 800 for the final evaluation.
The systems sub-mitted for this task can be quite complex and madefull use of the large unlabeled set.
Our goal here isnot to provide a comparative evaluation, but only6http://www.sigkdd.org/kdd2005/kddcup.html?101234567TIMESTANDARDIZED FREQUENCYFigure 2: RDFT reconstruction for the query?brush cutters?
using the first 25 Fourier coeffi-cients.
The squares represent the original timeseries datapoints, while the continuous line repre-sents the reconstructed signal.to use the labelled data7in a simplified manner tobetter understand the semantic properties of querytime series.
Each query in the dataset is assessedby three editors who can assign multiple topic la-bels from a set of 67 categories belonging to sevenbroad topics: Computers, Entertainment, Informa-tion, Living, Online Community, Shopping andSports.
We merged the KDD Cup developmentand test set, out of the 911 queries we were able toretrieve significant temporal information for 678queries.
We joined the sets of labels from each as-sessor for each query.
On average, each query isassigned five labels.5.2 DFT analysisAssessing the similarity of data represented astime series has been addressed mostly my meansof Fourier analysis; e.g., Agrawal et al (1993) in-troduce a method for efficiently retrieving timeseries from databases based on Discrete FourierTransform (DFT).
Several other methods havebeen proposed, e.g., Discrete Wavelet Trans-form (DWT), however DFT provide a competitivebenchmark approach (Wu et al, 2000).We use DFT to generate the Fourier coefficientsof the time series and Reverse DFT (RDFT) to re-construct the original signal using only a subsetof the coefficients.
This analysis effectively com-presses the time series producing a smoother ap-proximate representation.
DFT can be computedefficiently via Fast Fourier Transform (FFT), with7The KDD Cup dataset is probably the only public querylog providing topical categorization information.1052Method Accuracy ?
std-errRandom 0.107 0.03MostFrequent 0.490 0.07DFT-c10 0.425 0.06DFT-c50 0.456 0.05DFT-c100 0.502 0.05DFT-c200 0.456 0.04DFT-c400 0.506 0.05DFT-c600 0.481 0.06DFT-c800 0.478 0.04DFT-c1000 0.466 0.05Table 5: Results of the KDD dataset exploration.complexityO(n log n) where n is the length of thesequence.
The approximate representation is use-ful not only to address sparsity but can also be usedto efficiently estimate the similarity of two timeseries using only a small subset of coefficients asin (Agrawal et al, 1993).
As an example, Fig-ure 2 shows the original time series for the query?brush cutters?
and its reconstructed signal usingonly the first 25 Fourier coefficients.
The recon-structed signal captures the essence of the period-icity of the query and highlights the yearly peaksregistered for the query in spring and summer.5.3 Experiment and discussionTo explore the correlation between the structuredtemporal representation of queries provided by thetime series and topical categorization we run thefollowing experiment.
Each KDD Cup query wasreconstructed via RDFT using a variable numberof coefficients.
The set of 679 queries was parti-tioned in 10 sets and a 10-fold evaluation was per-formed.
For each fold we trained a classifier on theremaining 9 folds.
We used an average multi-classperceptron (Freund and Schapire, 1999) adapted tomulti-label learning (Crammer and Singer, 2003).Each model was trained on a fixed number of 10iterations.
The accuracy of each model was eval-uated as the fraction of test items for which theselected highest scoring class was in the gold stan-dard set provided by the editors.
As a lower boundwe estimated the accuracy of randomly choosinga label for each test instance, and as a baseline weused the most frequent label.
The latter is a pow-erful predictor: baselines based on class frequencyoutperformmost of the systems that participated inthe KDD Cup (Lin and Wu, 2009).Table 5 reports the average accuracy over the10 runs with relative standard errors.
Each DFT-based model is characterized by the number of co-efficients used for the reconstruction.
Two mainpatterns are noticeable.
First, none of the differ-ences between the frequency-based baseline andthe DFT models is significant, this seems to indi-cate that temporal structure alone is not a good dis-criminator of topic, at least of broad categories.
Inretrospect, this is somewhat predictable.
The tem-poral dimension is a basic semantic component oflexical meaning and world knowledge which is notnecessarily associated with any broad, and to someextent subjective, categorization.
An inspection ofthe patterns found in each category shows in factthat similar patterns often emerge in different cat-egories; e.g., ?Halloween costume?
and ?cheese-cake recipe?
have a similar yearly periodical pat-tern with spikes in early winter, while monotoni-cally decaying patterns are shared across all cate-gories; e.g., between computer hardware and kidstoys.The second interesting finding is the trend ofthe DFT system results, higher at low-intermediatevalues, providing some initial promising evidencethat DFT analysis generates useful compressedrepresentations which could be indexed and ap-plied efficiently.
Notice that the sequences recon-structed using 1,000 coefficients reproduce almostidentically the original signals.6 Applications in information extractionTime series from query logs are particularly rel-evant for phrases that refer to entities which areinvolved in recent events.
Therefore, we expectthem to be useful for solving other applicationsthat require handling entities, such as named en-tity recognition and classification, relation extrac-tion or disambiguation.To illustrate this point, we mention an exampleof relation extraction between actors and movies:movies usually have spikes when they are re-leased, and then the frequency again drops sharply.At the same times, when a movie is released, thesearch engine users have a renewed interest intheir actors.
Figure 3 displays the time series forthe five most recent movies by Jim Carrey (as ofmarch 2009), and the time series for Jim Carrey.As can be seen, the spikes are at exactly the samepoints in time.
If we add up the series (a) through(e) into a single series and calculate the correlationwith (f), it turns out to be very high (0.88).1053(a) (b) (c)(d) (e) (f)Figure 3: Time series obtained for the five most recent movies with Jim Carrey, and (f) time serie for thequery [jim carrey] (normalized scales).System Precision Recall F-measureRandom 0.24 0.14 0.17Time series 0.53 0.66 0.57Table 6: Results for the query suggestion task.To validate the hypothesis that this data shouldbe useful for identifying related entities, we haveperformed a small experiment in the followingway: by choosing five popular actors8and the cin-ema movies in which they appear since the year2004, obtained from IMDB9.
Using the time se-ries, for each actor we choose the combination ofmovies such that, by adding up the time series ofthose movies, we maximise the correlation withthe actor?s time series.
It has been implementedwith a greedy beam search, with a beam size of100.
The results are shown in Table 6.
The randombaseline randomly associates the movies from thedataset with the five actors.We do not believe this to be a perfect feature as,for example, actors may have a peak in the time se-ries related to their personal lives, not necessarilyto movies.
However, the high correlations that canbe obtained when the pairing between actors andmovies is correct, and the improvement with re-spect a random baseline, indicates this is a featurewhich can probably be integrated with other re-lation extraction systems when handling relation-ships between entities that have big temporal de-pendencies.8Ben Stiller, Edward Norton, Jim Carrey, Leonardo Di-caprio, and Tom Hanks.9www.imdb.com.7 Conclusions and future workThis paper explores the relationships betweenqueries whose associated time series obtainedfrom query logs are highly correlated.
The useof time series in semantic similarity has been dis-cussed by Chien (2005), but only a very prelimi-nary evaluation was described, and, to our knowl-edge, they had never been applied and evaluatedin solving existing problems.
Our results indicatethat, for a substantial percentage of phrases in athesaurus, it is possible to find other highly-relatedphrases; and we have categorized the kind of se-mantic relationships that hold between them.We have found that in a query suggestiontask, somewhat surprisingly, results are compara-ble with other state-of-the-art techniques based ondistributional similarities.
Furthermore, informa-tion obtained from time series seems to be com-plementary with them, as a simple combination ofsimilarity metrics produces an important increasein performance..From an analysis on a query categorization taskthe initial evidence suggests that there is no strongcorrelation between broad topics and temporalprofiles.
This agrees with the intuition that timeprovides a fundamental semantic dimension possi-bly orthogonal to broad topical classification.
Thisissue however deserves further investigation.
An-other issue which is worth a deeper investigationis the application of Fourier transform methodswhich offer tools for studying the periodic struc-ture of the temporal sequences.1054ReferencesR.
Agrawal, C. Faloutsos, and A.N.
Swami.
1993.
Ef-ficient similarity search in sequence databases.
InProceedings of the 4th International Conference onFoundations of Data Organization and Algorithms,pages 69?84.E.
Alfonseca, K. Hall, and S. Hartmann.
2009.
Large-scale computation of distributional similarities forqueries.
In Proceedings of North American Chap-ter of the Association for Computational Linguistics- Human Language Technologies conference.N.
Bansal and N. Koudas.
2007a.
BlogScope: a sys-tem for online analysis of high volume text streams.In Proceedings of the 33rd international conferenceon Very large data bases, pages 1410?1413.N.
Bansal and N. Koudas.
2007b.
BlogScope: Spatio-temporal analysis of the blogosphere.
In Proceed-ings of the 16th international conference on WorldWide Web, pages 1269?1270.D.
Beeferman and A. Berger.
2000.
Agglomerativeclustering of a search engine query log.
In Proceed-ings of the sixth ACM SIGKDD international con-ference on Knowledge discovery and data mining,pages 407?416.S.
Chien.
2005.
Semantic similarity between searchengine queries using temporal correlation.
In Pro-ceedings of the 14th international conference onWorld Wide Web, pages 2?11.K.
Crammer and Y.
Singer.
2003.
Ultraconservativeonline algorithms for multiclass problems.
Journalof Machine Learning Research, 3:951?991.S.
Cucerzan and R.W.
White.
2007.
Query sugges-tion based on user landing pages.
In Proceedingsof the 30th annual international ACM SIGIR confer-ence on Research and development in informationretrieval, pages 875?876.Y.
Freund and R.E.
Schapire.
1999.
Large margin clas-sification using the perceptron algorithm.
MachineLearning, 37:277?296.J.
Ginsberg, M.H.
Mohebbi, R.S.
Patel, L. Brammer,M.S.
Smolinski, and L. Brilliant.
2009.
Detectinginfluenza epidemics using search engine query data.Nature, 457, February.R.
Jones and F. Diaz.
2007.
Temporal profiles ofqueries.
ACM Transactions on Information Systems,25(3):14.R.
Jones, B. Rey, O. Madani, and W. Greiner.
2006.Generating query substitutions.
In Proceedings ofthe 15th international conference on World WideWeb, pages 387?396.J.
Kleinberg.
2006.
Temporal dynamics of on-line in-formation streams.
In Data Stream Management:Processing High-Speed Data.
Springer.R.
Kraft and J. Zien.
2004.
Mining anchor text forquery refinement.
In Proceedings of the 13th inter-national conference on World Wide Web, pages 666?674.Y.
Li, Z. Zheng, and H. Dai.
2005.
KDD Cup-2005report: Facing a grat challenge.
SIGKDD Explor.Newsl., 7(2):91?99.D.
Lin and X. Wu.
2009.
Phrase clustering for dis-criminative learning.
In Proceedings of the AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics and the International Joint Conference onNatural Language Processing of the Asian Federa-tion of Natural Language Processing.O.
Medelyan, C. Legg, D. Milne, and I.H.
Witten.2008.
Mining meaning from Wikipedia.
Dept.
ofComputer Science, University of Waikato.Q.
Mei, D. Zhou, and K. Church.
2008.
Query sug-gestion using hitting time.
In Proceeding of the17th ACM conference on Information and knowl-edge management, pages 469?478.G.A.
Miller.
1995.
WordNet: a lexical database forEnglish.
Communications of the ACM, 38(11):39?41.T.
Murata.
2008.
Detection of breaking news fromonline web search queries.
New Generation Com-puting, 26(1):63?73.M.
Sahami and T.D.
Heilman.
2006.
A web-based ker-nel function for measuring the similarity of short textsnippets.
In Proceedings of the 15th internationalconference on World Wide Web, pages 377?386.E.
Terra and C.L.A.
Clarke.
2004.
Scoring missingterms in information retrieval tasks.
In Proceedingsof the thirteenth ACM international conference onInformation and knowledge management, pages 50?58.D.S.
Weld, F. Wu, E. Adar, S. Amershi, J. Fogarty,R.
Hoffmann, K. Patel, and M. Skinner.
2008.
In-telligence in Wikipedia.
In Proceedings of the 23rdConference on Artificial Intelligence.Y.
Wu, D. Agrawal, and A. El Abbadi.
2000.
A com-parison of DFT and DWT based similarity searchin time-series databases.
In Proceedings of the 9thInternational ACM Conference on Information andKnowledge Management, pages 488?495.W.
Yih and C. Meek.
2008.
Consistent Phrase Rel-evance Measures.
Workshop on Data Mining andAudience Intelligence for Advertising, page 37.T.
Zesch, C. Muller, and I. Gurevych.
2008a.
Extract-ing lexical semantic knowledge from Wikipedia andWiktionary.
In Proceedings of the Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation.T.
Zesch, C. Muller, and I. Gurevych.
2008b.
UsingWiktionary for computing semantic relatedness.
InProceedings of the Conference on Artificial Intelli-gence, pages 861?867.1055
