Proceedings of the 2009 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 1446?1454,Singapore, 6-7 August 2009.c?2009 ACL and AFNLPConstruction of a Blog Emotion Corpus for Chinese EmotionalExpression AnalysisChangqin QuanFaculty of EngineeringUniversity of Tokushima2-1 Minamijosanjima Tokushima Japanquan-c@is.tokushima-u.ac.jpFuji RenFaculty of EngineeringUniversity of Tokushima2-1 Minamijosanjima Tokushima Japanren@is.tokushima-u.ac.jpAbstractThere is plenty of evidence that emotionanalysis has many valuable applications.In this study a blog emotion corpus is con-structed for Chinese emotional expressionanalysis.
This corpus contains manual an-notation of eight emotional categories (ex-pect, joy, love, surprise, anxiety, sorrow,angry and hate), emotion intensity, emo-tion holder/target, emotional word/phrase,degree word, negative word, conjunction,rhetoric, punctuation and other linguisticexpressions that indicate emotion.
An-notation agreement analyses for emotionclasses and emotional words and phrasesare described.
Then, using this corpus,we explore emotion expressions in Chi-nese and present the analyses on them.1 IntroductionTextual emotion analysis is becoming increasinglyimportant due to augmented communication viacomputer mediated communication (CMC) inter-net sources such as weblogs, email, websites, fo-rums, and chat rooms.
Especially, blogspace con-sists of millions of users who maintain an onlinediary, containing frequently-updated views andpersonal remarks about a range of issues.Despite the increased focus on analysis of webcontent, there has been limited emotion analy-sis of web contents, with the majority of studiesfocusing on sentiment analysis or opinion min-ing.
Classifying the mood of a single text is ahard task; state-of-the-art methods in text classi-fication achieve only modest performance in thisdomain (Mishne, 2005).
In this area, some ofthe hardest problems involve acquiring basic re-sources.
Corpora are fundamental both for devel-oping sound conceptual analyses and for trainingthese emotion-oriented systems at different lev-els: to recognize emotions, to express appropriateemotions, to anticipate emotions, and other emo-tion processing applications.In this study we propose a relatively fine-grained annotation scheme, annotating emotion intext at three levels: document, paragraph, and sen-tence.
We select eight emotion classes (expect,joy, love, surprise, anxiety, sorrow, angry and hate)for this annotation, and explore various linguis-tic expressions that indicate emotion in Chinese.The annotation scheme has been employed in themanual annotation of a corpus containing 1,487documents, with 11,255 paragraphs, 35,096 sen-tences, and 878,164 Chinese words.
Then, usingthis corpus, we explore and present data analy-ses on emotions, involving emotion states, accom-panying emotions, transfer emotions, independentemotions in texts.The remainder of this paper is organized as fol-lows.
Section 2 describes the emotion corpus an-notation scheme.
Section 3 presents the inter-annotator agreement study.
Section 4 describesthe analysis of emotion expressions.
Section 5presents a review of current emotion corpora fortextual emotion analysis.
Section 6 concludes thisstudy with closing remarks and future directions.2 Blog Emotion Corpus AnnotationSchemeWeblogs are an increasingly popular mode ofcommunication in the ever changing online world.Writing suits the recording of facts and the com-munication of ideas, and their textual basis makesthem equally suitable for recording emotions andopinions.
So, we select blogs as object and datasource for this emotion corpus annotation.2.1 Emotional Expression in TextAn important starting point in constructing thiscorpus is to represent emotion in text.
One of thebiggest questions in affect recognition is, ?What1446are the couplings between affective states and theirpatterns of expressions?
(Picard, 1997).In this study we propose an emotional expres-sion space model to represent emotion in text,which is hierarchical in consistent with the naturalstructure of a document.
Emotion of a documentis represented by a vector?
?d =< e1, e2, ..., ei, ..., en> (1)Here, eiis a basic emotion class contained in doc-ument d. The values of eirange from 0.0 to 1.0(discrete), indicating the intensities of the basicemotion classes.
Similar to a document, emotionof each paragraph and each sentence in a docu-ment is represented by an emotion vector.Basic emotions may be defined in many ways.To decrease confusions on emotion categories?
se-lection and to contain the most common emotionclasses in blogs, we select eight emotion classes(expect, joy, love, surprise, anxiety, sorrow, angryand hate) for this manual annotation, and they areagreed by eleven annotators through a testing an-notation period.
Table 1 shows the numbers of theeight emotion classes in documents, paragraphs,and sentences in this corpus.Emotions Doc Para SenExpect 656 2,145 4,588Joy 565 2,740 6,211Love 911 4,991 11,866Surprise 124 503 1,118Anxiety 732 4,128 10,115Sorrow 693 3643 8,166Angry 189 900 2,221Hate 335 1,589 3,555Sum 4,205 20,639 47,840Table 1: Num.
of the eight emotion classesAs shown in Table 1, we have reasonably largecounts for all 8 emotions in all 3 units of text.
Andwe also can get the average value for the numbersof emotion classes in each document, each para-graph and each sentence; they are 2.83, 1.84, and1.36 respectively.2.2 The Multi-level Annotation FrameThe annotation frame includes 3 levels: docu-ment, paragraph, and sentence.
Sentence levelis the basic level for emotion annotation; the an-notation includes intensities of the eight basicemotion classes, emotion holder/target, emotionalwords/phrases, rhetoric, emotional punctuations,emotion objective/subjective and emotion polarity.Paragraph level is the upper level of sentence level;the annotation includes intensities of the eight ba-sic emotion classes, topic words to reflect the topicof a paragraph, and the number of topic sentencethat can express the main points of this paragraph.Document level is the uppermost level; its anno-tation is similar to paragraph level.
The tokenizedtext files are organized into XML documents.
Anexample document is listed in Figure 1.Figure 1: An annotated document in XML format14472.3 Sentence Level AnnotationSentences are basic units for emotional expres-sion.
The central aim of sentence level annotationis to explore as much linguistic expressions for re-flecting emotion in Chinese as possible.a) Emotion holder/targetIn the task of opinion analysis, the problem ofopinion holder identification has also been stud-ied, (Bethard, Steven et al, 2004; Choi, Cardie,et al, 2005; Kim and Hovy, 2005).
As for emo-tion holder/target identification, little research hasbeen conducted, but we believe it is important forexploring emotional expression and emotion anal-ysis.
Emotion holder is the one who holds theemotions, and an emotion target is the object ofan emotion holder.
For instance,(1) ????????
(English: I like thisteacher.)
In sentence (1),??
(English: I)?
is theemotion holder, and ?????
(English: thisteacher.)?
is the emotion target.In this corpus, not every sentence is annotatedwith emotion holder or emotion target, and emo-tion holder or emotion target may not appear inpairs in one sentence.
If one sentence has morethan one emotion holders or emotion targets, theyare all annotated.b) Emotional words and phrasesLexicon-based methods have received a lot ofattention in opinion analysis task.
There are manylexical resources for these tasks.
For emotion anal-ysis tasks, the function of words is equally funda-mental.
In most sentimental lexicons, the wordsusually bear direct emotions or opinions, such ashappy or sad, good or bad.
However, there are alot of sentences can evoke emotions without directemotional words, for example,(2) ??????????????????
(English: Spring is in children?s eyes, and intheir hearts.
)In sentence (2), we may feel joy, love or ex-pect delivered by the writer.
Indeed, as (Ortony,Andrew, et al, 1987) indicates, besides words di-rectly referring to emotional states and for whichan appropriate lexicon would help, there are wordsthat act only as an indirect reference to emotionsdepending on the context.In this annotation scheme, direct emotionalwords and indirect emotional words in a sen-tence are all annotated.
In sentence (2), ???
(English: spring)?, ????
(English: chil-dren)?
are labeled.
An emotional word or phraseis represented as a vector to record its intensi-ties of the eight basic emotional classes.
For in-stance, the vector for the word ???(English:like)??
?w = (0.0, 0.3, 0.9, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0)indicates the emotions of weak joy and stronglove.
For indirect emotional words, we anno-tate their emotion vectors according to their con-texts, for example, the possible emotion vec-tor for the word ???
(English: spring)?
?
?w =(0.1, 0.3, 0.3, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0) indicates theemotions of weak expect, joy and love.
(The emo-tions and intensity values may be different becauseof different annotators).Emotional phrases are combination of words,such as Chinese proverbs, like ????????????
(English: Where there is a will, thereis a way) ?.
For an emotional phrase, the positionsof its first and character in a sentence are labeled,and also for emotional words if there are Chineseword segmentation mistakes.The statistics show that 84.9% of all emotionalwords have one emotion, and 14.7% have twoemotions, only 0.4% have three or four emotions,but they are indispensable for expressing complexfeelings in use of language.Table 2 shows the numbers of emotional wordswith different POS (part-of-speech) tags.
The setof POS includes 35 classes; Table 2 lists the topfive classes.POSNum.
of words(have repeat)Verb 37,572Noun 21,308Adj.
20,265Adv.
4,223Gerund 2,789Table 2: Emotional words with different POSAs shown in Table 2, verbs, nouns, adjectivesand adverbs are strong markers of emotion in Chi-nese.c) Degree words, negative words, conjunc-tionsDegree words are associated with the intensi-ties of emotions.
In Chinese, degree words ap-pear with high frequency.
In this corpus, thereare 1,039 different degree words annotated, the to-tal occurring number of them is 16,713, in which,8,294 degree words modify emotional words orphrases directly.
Degree words and the modifying1448contents are all labeled.Negative words can be placed almost every-where in a sentence to change the meaning, alsoto change the emotions.
Negative words are fre-quently used in Chinese.
The statistical data showsthat there are 645 different negative words anno-tated in this corpus, the total occurring number ofthem is 13,750, in which, 3,668 negative wordsmodify emotional words or phrases directly.Besides, conjunctions may change the emotionof a sentence.
for example,(3)?????????????????????
(Jin guan wo men xi huan zhe ge lao shi,dan ta yi jing li kai le wo men; English: Althoughwe like this teacher, she has leaved.
)Sentence (3) uses the conjunctions ???...?...
(jin guan...dan..., English: although)?express emotions of love and sorrow.
Thereare 297 different conjunctions annotated in thiscorpus.
Conjunctions and the modifying contentsare all labeled.
If conjunctions appear in pairsin a sentence, the position of pairing wordsfor each conjunction are also labeled.
For theabove sentence (3), conjunctions are annotated asfollows (Figure.
2).Figure 2: An example of conjunctions annotationFigure 3 shows the growth curve of word num-ber with document number from 300 to 1487.
Ascan be seen from Figure 3, the increase numbers ofemotional words/phrases slow down with the in-crease in the number of documents, and the num-bers of negative words, degree words and conjunc-tions basically remained stable.
We can look for-ward to containing most of common emotional ex-pressions in weblogs articles.d) Rhetorics, punctuationsChinese rhetoric has been well studied fromthe view of linguistics and literature.
We se-lect nine common rhetoric categories to anno-tate: ??
(English: metaphor), English: ??
(exaggeration), ?
?
(English: personifica-tion), ??
(English: antithesis or parallel), ?Figure 3: Growth curve of word number?
(English: parallelism sentence), ??
(English:rhetorical question with answer), ??
(English:rhetorical question), ??
(English: repeat), ??
(English: irony).
Especially, ??
(English:irony) is a way as to imply the contrary of what onesays, if a sentence is annotated with irony, its emo-tions maybe totally different from the emotions ofwords that it contains.
We annotate rhetoric cate-gory and the corresponding emotion category.Punctuation is the use of standard marks andsigns in writing to separate words into sentences,clauses, and phrases in order to clarify meaning.Some punctuation marks can express emotions,for example, an exclamation mark (!)
or a questionmark (?)
is used at the end of a sentence to showstrong emotion.
Balog, Mishne, et al (2006) sug-gests that people relied on four strategies includ-ing punctuation to express happiness versus sad-ness.
Punctuation effect is also shown in (Leshedand Kaye, 2006) to extend to emoticon placementin website text messages.
We annotate punctua-tion with emotion and the corresponding emotioncategory.e) Emotion objective/subjective, emotion po-larityDistinguishing a sentence between factual andsubjective information could support for manynatural language processing applications.
Objec-tive and subjective in our annotation scheme is todistinguish a sentence between writer?s emotionand non-writer?s emotion.There is a positive side or a negative side onemotion.
We call this an emotional polarity.
Emo-tion polarity of a sentence is determined by inte-grating its emotions.
A sentence without emotionis annotated with neutral.An annotation tool is developed for this corpus1449annotation.
Input files are text files with Chinesesegmentation and part-of-speech tags, the anno-tated output files are XML files.3 Annotation Agreement analysisEmotion annotation is a hard task because the na-ture of emotion is inherently ambiguous.
In theprocess of annotation, annotators were encouragedto follow their ?first intuition?.
To measure agree-ment on various aspects of the annotation scheme,three annotators independently annotated 26 doc-uments with a total of 270 paragraphs, 701 sen-tences.3.1 Agreement for Emotion ClassesThe kappa coefficient of agreement is a statisticadopted by the Computational Linguistics com-munity as a standard measure for this purpose(Carletta, 1996).
We measured two agreements foremotion classes?
annotation:Agreement (a): the agreement on classifi-cation of containing or not containing someemotions.
In this case, we distinguish twoclasses: emotion intensity ei?
{0.0} or ei?
{0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0};Agreement (b): the agreement on classifica-tion of emotion intensity.
In this case, we dis-tinguish four classes: ei?
{0.0} or ei?
{0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4}, or ei?
{0.5, 0.6, 0.7}, or ei?
{0.8, 0.9, 1.0}.Table 3 shows Agreement (a) and (b) measureon documents, paragraphs and sentences.Agreement(a) Agreement(b)documents 0.831 0.695paragraphs 0.705 0.616sentences 0.756 0.648Average 0.764 0.653Table 3: Agreement on emotion classesAs shown in Table 3, it is easier for annotatorsto agree at the coarser levels of granularity, and itis more difficult to agree on the level of emotionintensity.3.2 Agreement for Emotional Words andPhrasesMeasuring agreement for emotional words andphrases is to verify that annotators agree on whichexpressions should be marked.
To illustrate thisagreement problem, consider the emotional wordsand phrases identified by annotators a and b. Thissentence was preprocessed by Chinese segmenta-tion and tagged with part-of-speech.
(4) ?
?/t ?/w ?/d ?/v ?
?/n ?/u ??/n?
?/v ?
?/n ?/Ng ?/w ?
?/v ?
?/ad ??/v?/v??/m??/d?/u??/a?
?/n?/w?/r ?/d ?/v ?/w ???
?/n ?/w ?
?/n ??/z?
(English: This morning, when I walked tothe meeting with sunshine, some wonderful wordsthat have not been used for many years crossed mymind, which are ?the autumn sky is clear, the airis crisp?
and ?shinning with gold color?
)a: ??,??,????,??,??
;b: ??,??,??,????,??
;In sentence (4), the two annotators agree that???
?, ???
?, ??????
and ????
can ex-press emotion.
In addition, annotator a marked theword ???
?, and annotator b marked the word???
?.In this task, there is no guarantee that the an-notators will identify the same set of expressions.Thus, to measure agreement we want to considerhow much intersection there is between the setsof expressions identified by the annotators.
Weuse the following voting-agreement metric to mea-sure agreement in identifying emotional wordsand phrases.Metric voting-agreement is defined as follows.Let A, B and C be the sets of expressions anno-tated by annotators a, b and c respectively.
Theexpert coder is the set of expressions that agreedby at least two annotators, see Equation 2.voting agreement = Avg(count(ti= ej)count((ti))(2)In which, ti?
T, ej?
E, T = A?B?C,E = (A?B)?(A?C)?
(B?C).The agreement for emotional words and phrasesis 0.785.4 Emotional Expressions Analysis4.1 Emotion State?Emotion state in text?
is the state of combinedemotions in a text unit.
An emotion state is repre-sented by 8 binary digits, each digit correspondingto a basic emotion class respectively.
As an exam-ple, a document emotion state ?01100000?
is thestate of combined emotions by joy and love.The statistics show that, in this corpus, thereare 149 different emotion states in all of the 1,4871450documents, 165 different emotion states in all ofthe 11,255 paragraphs, and 143 different emotionstates in all of the 35,096 sentences respectively.That indicates the set of emotion state in texts isrelatively small.
We also found some basic emo-tions tend to combine together, such as {expect,joy, love}, {anxiety, sorrow}, {angry, hate}.
How-ever, some emotions have small or scarce possibil-ity appear together, such as joy and hate, surpriseand angry.4.2 Accompanying EmotionsIn an emotion state, some basic emotions aremixed together.
When an emotion ejarise, emo-tion ei(i 6= j) arise with accompany, then, eiisan accompanying emotion of ej.
To compute theprobability of the accompanying emotion given anemotion ej, we count the cooccurrence of eiandejin a text unit (a document, a paragraph, or asentence).P (ei|ej) =count(eiwith ej)count(ej)(3)Table 4 shows the accompanying emotions withthe highest probabilities for the eight basic emo-tions in documents, paragraphs and sentences.Emotions Docs Paras SensExpect Love Love LoveJoy Love Love LoveLove Joy Joy JoySurprise Anxiety Love LoveAnxiety Sorrow Sorrow SorrowSorrow Anxiety Anxiety AnxietyAngry Anxiety Hate HateHate Anxiety Sorrow AngryTable 4: Accompanying emotionsIn Table 4, the accompanying emotions hasshown a high uniformity in the 3 units of text.4.3 Transfer EmotionsWhen emotion change from one emotion class toanother one, we call this emotion transfer.
Usingthe context relation of paragraphs and sentences,we compute the probability P (ei?
ej).P (ei?
ej) =count(et= ei, et+1= ej)count(et= ei)(4)In which, etis an emotion class in paragraph t(or sentence t), and et+1is another emotion classin paragraph t + 1 (or sentence t + 1).
Table 4shows the transfer emotions with the highest prob-abilities for the eight basic emotions in paragraphsand sentences.Emotions Paras SensExpect Love ExpectJoy Love LoveLove Love LoveSurprise Love LoveAnxiety Anxiety AnxietySorrow Sorrow SorrowAngry Anxiety AngryHate Hate HateTable 5: Transfer emotionsSimilar to this, we can compute the probabilityof emotion state transfer P (e statei?
e statej).This may help a lot for emotion prediction, forexample, if we know the current emotion state is?00000110?
(sorrow an angry), we can estimatethe probability of this emotion state to anotheremotion state ?00000001?
(hate).4.4 Independent EmotionWhen a text unit (a document, a paragraph, ora sentence) only contains one emotion class, thisemotion class is an independent emotion.
Thestatistics show that emotion of love has high in-dependence, however, joy, surprise and angry hasrelative low independence.
The intuition is lovecan be the only topic emotion in a text unit, butemotions of joy, surprise and anxiety more inclineto combine with other emotions.5 Related workPrevious approaches to textual emotion analysishave employed some different corpora.
Mishne(2005) experimented mood classification in blogposts on a corpus of 815,494 blog posts from Live-journal (http://www.livejournal.com), a free we-blog service with a large community.
Livejour-nal also used as data source for finding happi-ness (Mihalcea and Liu, 2006), capturing globalmood levels (Mishne and De Rijke, 2006), clas-sifying mood (Jung, Park, et al, 2006; Jung,Choi, et al, 2007), discovering mood irregu-larities (Balog, Mishne, et al, 2006), recogniz-ing affect (Leshed and Kaye, 2006).
A similaremotion corpus in Chinese is Yahoo!
?s Chinesenews (http://tw.news.yahoo.com), which is used1451for Chinese emotion classification of news read-ers (Lin, Yang, et al, 2007) and emotion lexi-con building (Yang, Lin, et al, 2007).
Tokuhima(2008) also use web as data resources to obtaina huge collection of emotion-provoking event in-stances for Japanese emotion classification.
Moreand more weblogs have added mood column torecord blog users?
moods when they read or writea blog.Two merits let them well accepted as emotioncorpora: a large number of weblogs contained andmoods annotated by blog users.
However, there isa great inconsistency on emotion categories givenby different websites.
Livejournal gives a pre-defined list of 132 common moods, while Ya-hoo!
?s Chinese news provides readers 8 emotioncategories.
Too many mood classes may confuseusers, and Mishne (2005) also pointed out one ob-vious drawback of the mood ?annotation?
in thiscorpora is that they are not provided in a consistentmanner; the blog writers differ greatly from eachother, and their definitions of moods differ accord-ingly.
In addition, some words are not fitted to betaken as emotion classes, such as ?useful?
in Ya-hoo!
?s emotion categories.
These corpora may behelpful for analyzing the global moods on a fulltext, but the inconsistent emotion categories is aproblem, and no more labeled information can beexploited from them.The emotion analysis on sentence level mayalso be important for more detailed emotion anal-ysis systems.
Alm, Roth, et al (2005) ex-plore the text-based emotion prediction problem;they annotated a corpus of 22 Grimms?tales onsentence level with eight emotion categories (an-gry, disgusted, fearful, happy, sad, positively sur-prised, negatively surprised), contain 1580 sen-tences.
Neviarouskaya, Prendinger et al (2007)address the tasks of recognition and interpreta-tion of affect communicated through text messag-ing.
They collected 160 sentences labeled withone of nine emotions categories (anger, disgust,fear, guilt, interest, joy, sadness, shame, and sur-prise) from a corpus of online diary-like blogposts and a corresponding intensity value.
Amanand Szpakowicz (2007) classify emotional andnon-emotional sentences based on a knowledge-based approach.
They used a corpus with tagsof emotion category, emotion intensity and thewords/phrases that indicate emotion in text.
Anemotion corpus for Japanese was built for rec-ognizing emotions and emotion estimation (Ren,2009; Matsumoto, 2006).
However, the sizes ofthese corpora seem not enough for large scale tex-tual emotion analysis, a lot of linguistic featuresare not reflected from them.
A more fine-grainedopinion and emotion corpus is the MPQA Corpus(Wiebe, Wilson, et al, 2005), which contains 535news articles (10,000-sentence) from a wide va-riety of news sources, manually annotated at thesentential and subsentential level for opinions andother private states.
But emotion categories are notincluded in it.To the best of our knowledge, at present, there?sno relatively large corpora annotated with detailedlinguistic expressions for emotion in Chinese, andwe believe that such corpora would support the de-velopment and evaluation of emotion analysis sys-tems.6 Conclusions and Future WorkIn this study we proposed an emotional expres-sion space model.
Emotion of a document, a para-graph, a sentence, or even a word is representedby an emotional vector.
Based on this model,we described a relatively fine-grained annotationscheme and annotated emotion in text.
We alsogave the inter-annotator agreement study on an-notation.
Then, we explore the emotional expres-sions in texts.This annotated dataset can be obtained for freewith license1.
Eleven annotators made effortson it spanning a period of ten months (They arePh.D and M.S.
candidates specialize in NaturalLanguage Processing and Emotion Analysis).
Toensure the quality of this dataset, each documentwas performed a three pass annotation, in whichthe first pass is annotated by one annotator andthen the second and the third verification pass wereperformed by other two annotators.
The processof this corpus annotation is easy to make mistakesbecause of a lot of information should be anno-tated.
The verification pass is to check the an-notation mistakes (such as the start and end po-sitions of emotional phrases in sentences), but notto change the choices of emotion classes or emo-tional words which had been annotated by otherannotators.Using this corpus, we will make a more exten-sive study of textual emotion analysis in Chinese,1http://a1-www.is.tokushima-u.ac.jp/member/ren/Ren-CECps1.0/Ren-CECps1.0.html1452for example, the influence of degree words, nega-tive words, or other elements on emotional expres-sion; the difference between subjective emotionand objective emotion; emotion transfer tracking.More applications also will be explored, such asemotional summarization, emotional question an-swering; emotional topic discovering.
At the sametime, new research problems will arise, for exam-ples, how to acquiring more emotional words andto generate their emotional vectors automatically;how to generate emotional vectors for sentences,paragraphs and documents with known emotionalelements in them?
There is need to immerge fur-ther into these problems.AcknowledgmentsWe are grateful to our annotators: Huana Li,Ye Wu, Lei Chen, Yu Zhang, Ji Li, Ziliang Du,Yuanlu Fu, Rong Mu, Yan Sun, Cheng Wang,Yunong Wu, and other participants and support-ers.
We are also grateful to Dr. Suzuki and Dr.Matsumoto for the helpful advice.
This researchhas been partially supported by Ministry of Edu-cation, Science, Sprots and Culture, Grant-in-Aidfor Challenging Exploratory Research, 21650030.ReferencesAlena Neviarouskaya, Helmut Prendinger, MitsuruIshizuka.
2007.
Textual Affect Sensing for Socialand Expressive Online Communication.
Proceed-ings of the 2nd international conference on AffectiveComputing and Intelligent Interaction, pp.
218-229.Bethard, Steven, Hong Yu, Ashley Thornton, VasileiosHatzivassiloglou, and Dan Jurafsky.
2004.
Auto-matic Extraction of Opinion Propositions and theirHolders.
AAAI Spring Symposium on Exploring At-titude and Affect in Text: Theories and Applications, pp.
133?136.Changhua Yang, Kevin Hsin-Yih Lin, Hsin-Hsi Chen.2007.
Building Emotion Lexicon from Weblog Cor-pora.
Proceedings of the ACL 2007 Demo and PosterSessions, pp.
133?136.Cecilia Ovesdotter Alm, Dan Roth, Richard Sproat.2005.
Emotions from text: Machine learning fortext-based emotion prediction.
Proceedings of Hu-man Language Technology Conference and Con-ference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing, pp.
579-586, Vancouver, BritishColumbia, Canada.Fuji Ren.
2009.
Affective Information Processing andRecognizing Human Emotion.
Electronic Notes inTheoretical Computer Science, 225: 39-50.Gilad Mishne.
2005.
Emotions from text: Machinelearning for text-based emotion prediction.
Proceed-ings of Style2005 in SIGIR?05, pp.
15-19.Gilad Mishne and Maarten de Rijke.
2006.
Captur-ing global mood levels using blog posts.
AAAI 2006Spring Symposium on Computational Approaches toAnalysing Weblogs, pp.145-152.Gilly Leshed and Joseph Kaye.
2006.
Understandinghow bloggers feel: recognizing affect in blog posts.Conference on Human Factors in Computing Sys-tems CHI ?06 extended abstracts on Human factorsin computing systems, pp.
1019- 1024.Janyce Wiebe, Theresa Wilson, Claire Cardie.
2005.Annotating expressions of opinions and emotions inlanguage.
Language Resources and Evaluation.
39:164?210.Jean Carletta.
1996.
Assessing Agreement on Classi-fication Tasks: The Kappa Statistic.
ComputationalLinguistics.
22(2):249-254.Kazuyuki Matsumoto, Fuji Ren, Shingo Kuroiwa.2006.
Emotion Estimation System based on Emo-tion Occurrence Sentence Pattern.
ComputationalIntelligence, Lecture Notes in Computer Sciences,pp.902-911.Kevin Hsin-Yih Lin, Changhua Yang, Hsin-Hsi Chen.2007.
What emotions do news articles trigger in theirreaders?
Annual ACM Conference on Research andDevelopment in Information Retrieval, pp.
733- 734.Krisztian Balog.
Gilad Mishne.
Maarten de Rijke.2006.
Why are they excited?
identifying and ex-plaining spikes in blog mood levels.
Proceedings11th Meeting of the European Chapter of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics, pp.
207-210.Ortony, Andrew, Gerald L. Clore, and Mark A. Foss.1987.
The referential structure of the affective lexi-con.
Cognitive Science, 11: 341-364.Rada Mihalcea and Hugo Liu.
2006.
A corpus-basedapproach to finding happiness.
Proceedings of theAAAI Spring Symposium on Computational, pp.139-144.Rosalind Picard.
1997.
Affective Computing.
The MITPress, MA, USA.Ryoko Tokuhisa, Kentaro.
Inui, and Yuji.
Matsumoto.2008.
Emotion Classification Using Massive Exam-ples Extracted from the Web.
Proceedings of COL-ING 2008, pp.
881-888.Saima Aman and Stan Szpakowicz.
2007.
IdentifyingExpressions of Emotion in Text.
Lecture Notes inComputer Science.
4629: 196-205.Soo-Min Kim and Eduard Hovy.
2005.
IdentifyingOpinion Holders for Question Answering in OpinionTexts.
Proceedings of AAAI-05 Workshop on Ques-tion Answering in Restricted Domains, pp.
1367-1373.1453Yejin Choi, Claire Cardie, Ellen Riloff, and SiddharthPatwardhan.
2005.
Identifying Sources of Opinionswith ConditionalRandom Fields and Extraction Pat-terns.
Proceedings of HLT/EMNLP-05, pp.
355-362.Yuchul Jung, Hogun Park, Sung Hyon Myaeng.
2006.A Hybrid Mood Classification Approach for BlogText.
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pp.1099-1103.Yuchul Jung, Yoonjung Choi, Sung-Hyon Myaeng.2007.
Determining Mood for a Blog by Combin-ing Multiple Sources of Evidence.
IEEE/WIC/ACMInternational Conference on Web Intelligence, pp.271-274.1454
