Proceedings of the 2009 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 900?909,Singapore, 6-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPStatistical Estimation of Word Acquisition withApplication to Readability PredictionPaul KidwellDepartment of StatisticsPurdue UniversityWest Lafayette, INkidwellpaul@gmail.comGuy LebanonCollege of ComputingGeorgia Institute of TechnologyAtlanta, GAlebanon@cc.gatech.eduKevyn Collins-ThompsonMicrosoft ResearchRedmond, WAkevynct@microsoft.comAbstractModels of language learning play a cen-tral role in a wide range of applica-tions: from psycholinguistic theories ofhow people acquire new word knowledge,to information systems that can automati-cally match content to users?
reading abil-ity.
We present a novel statistical ap-proach that can infer the distribution ofa word?s likely acquisition age automati-cally from authentic texts collected fromthe Web.
We then show that combiningthese acquisition age distributions for allwords in a document provides an effectivesemantic component for predicting read-ing difficulty of new texts.
We also com-pare our automatically inferred acquisitionages with norms from existing oral stud-ies, revealing interesting historical trendsas well as differences between oral andwritten word acquisition processes.1 IntroductionWord acquisition refers to the temporal process bywhich children learn the meaning and understand-ing of new words.
Some words are acquired ata very early age, some are acquired at early pri-mary school grades, and some are acquired at highschool or even later in life as the individual under-goes experiences related to that word.
A relatedconcept to acquisition age is document grade levelreadability which refers to the school grade levelof the document?s intended audience.
It appliesin situations where documents are written with theexpressed intent of being understood by childrenin a certain school grade.
For example, textbooksauthored specifically for fourth graders are said tohave readability grade level four.We develop and evaluate a novel statisticalmodel that draws a connection between documentgrade level readability and age acquisition distri-butions.
Based on previous work in the area, wedefine a model for document readability using alogistic Rasch model and the quantiles of the ac-quisition age distributions.
We then proceed to in-fer the age acquisition distributions for differentwords from document readability data collectedby crawling the web.We examine the inferred acquisition distribu-tions from two perspectives.
First, we analyze andcontrast them with previous studies on oral wordacquisition, revealing interesting historical trendsas well as differences between oral and writtenword acquisition processes.
Second, the inferredacquisition distributions serve as parameters forthe readability model, which enables us to predictthe readability level of novel documents.To our knowledge, this is the first publishedstudy of a method to ?reverse-engineer?
individ-ual word acquisition statistics from graded texts.By obtaining such a fine-grained model of howlanguage evolves over time, we obtain a new,rich source of semantic features for a document.The increasing amounts of content available fromthe Web and other sources also means that theseflexible models of authentic usage can be eas-ily adapted for different tasks and populations.Our work serves to complement the growing bodyof research using statistics and machine learn-ing for language learning tasks, and has appli-cations including predicting reading difficulty forWeb pages and other non-traditional documents,reader-specific example and question generationfor lexical practice in intelligent tutoring systems,and analysis tools for language learning research.2 A Model for Document Readabilityand Word AcquisitionFor a fixed word and a fixed population of indi-viduals T the age of acquisition (AoA) distribu-tion pwrepresents the age at which word w was900acquired by the population.
Existing AoA normstudies almost universally summarize AoA ratingsin terms of two parameters: mean and standarddeviation, ignoring higher-level moments such asskew.
For direct comparison with these studies wefollow this convention and thus our goal is to esti-mate AoA for a word w in terms of mean ?wandstandard deviation ?wparameters using the (trun-cated) normal distributionpw(t) ?
N(t ;?w, ?w) =e?(t??w)2/(2?2w)?2?
?2w(1)where the proportionality constant ensures that thedistribution is normalized over the range of agesunder consideration e.g., t ?
[6, 18] for schoolgrades.
It is important to note that our model isnot restricted by the assumption of (1) and can bereadily extended to the Gamma family of distribu-tions, if modeling asymmetric spread in the distri-bution is appropriate.For a fixed vocabulary V of distinct words theage acquisition distributions for all words w ?
Vare defined using 2|V | parameters{(?w, ?w) : w ?
V }.
(2)These parameters, which are the main objects ofinterest, can in principle be estimated from datausing standard statistical techniques.
Unfortu-nately, data containing explicit acquisition ages isvery difficult to obtain reliably.
Explicit word ac-quisition data is based on interviewing adults re-garding their age acquisition process during child-hood and so may be unreliable and difficult to ob-tain for a large representative group of people.On the other hand, it is possible to reliably col-lect large quantities of readability data defined aspairs of documents and ages of intended audience.As we demonstrate later in the paper, such datamay be automatically obtained by crawling spe-cialized resources on the Web.
We demonstratehow to use such data to estimate the word acqui-sition parameters (2) and to use the estimates topredict future readability ages.Traditionally, document readability has beendefined in terms of the school grade level at whicha large portion of the words have been acquiredby most children (Chall and Dale, 1995).
We pro-pose the following interpretation of that definition,which is made appropriate for quantitative studiesby taking into account the inherent randomness inthe acquisition process.Definition 1.
A document d = (w1, .
.
.
, wm) issaid to have (1 ?
?1, 1 ?
?2)-readability level t ifby age t no less than 1?
?1percent of the words ind have been acquired each by no less than 1 ?
?2percent of the population.We denote by qwthe quantile function of the cdfcorresponding to the acquisition distribution pw.In other words, qw(r) represents the age at whichr percent of the population T have acquired wordw.
Despite the fact that it does not have a closedform, it is a continuous and smooth function of theparameters ?w, ?win (1) (assuming T is infinite)and can be tabulated before inference begins.Following Definition 1 we define a logisticRasch readability model:logP (d is (s, r)-readable at age t)1 ?
P (d is (s, r)-readable at age t)= ?
(qd(s, r) ?
t) (3)where qd(s, r) is the s quantile of {qwi(r) : i =1, .
.
.
,m}.
An equivalent formulation to (3) thatmakes the probability model more explicit isP (d is (s, r)-readable at age t)=exp(?
(qd(s, r) ?
t))1 + exp(?
(qd(s, r) ?
t)).
(4)In other words, the probability of a document dbeing (s, r)-readable increases exponentially withqd(s, r) which is the age at which s percent of thewords in d have been acquired each by r percentof the population.The parameter r = 1 ?
?2determines what itmeans for a word to be acquired and is typicallyconsidered to be a high value such as 0.8.
Theparameter s = 1 ?
?1determines how many ofthe document words need to be acquired for it tobe readable.
It can be set to a high value such as0.9 if a very precise understanding is required forreadability but can be reduced when a more mod-est definition of readability applies.We note that due to the discreteness of the set{qwi(r) : i = 1, .
.
.
,m}, neither qd(s, r) nor theloglikelihood are differentiable in the parameters(2).
This raises some practical difficulties withrespect to the computational maximization of thelikelihood and subsequent estimation of (2).
How-ever, for long documents containing a large num-ber of words, qd(s, r) is approximately smoothwhich motivates a maximum likelihood procedureusing gradient descent on a smoothed version of901qd(s).
Alternative optimization techniques whichdo not require smoothness may also be used.In the case of a normal distribution (1) we havethat a word is acquired by r percent of the pop-ulation at age w = ?
+ ?
?1(r)?, where ?
isthe cumulative distribution function (cdf) of thenormal distribution.
To investigate the distribu-tion of acquisition ages we assume that the ?, ?parameters corresponding to different words in adocument are drawn from Gamma distributions?
?
G(?1, ?1) and ?
?
G(?2, ?2).
The normaland Gamma distributions are chosen in part be-cause they are flexible enough to model many sit-uations and also admit good statistical estimationtheory.
Noting that ??1(r)?
?
G(?2,?
?1(r)?2),we can write the distribution of the acquisitionages as the following convolutionfW(w) =w?1+?2?1e?w/?2?(?1)?(?2)??11??22??10t?1?1e(?1?
?2)tw?1?2(1 ?
t)1?
?2dtwhich reverts to a Gamma when ?1= ?2.The distribution of the s-percentile of fW,which amounts to (r, s)-readability of documents,can be analyzed by combining fWabove with astandard normal approximation of order statistics(e.g., (David and Nagaraja, 2003))X?mp??
N(F?1W(p),p(1 ?
p)m[fW(F?1W(p))]2)where m is the document length and FWis the cdfcorresponding to fW.Figure 1 shows the relationship between docu-ment length and confidence interval (CI) width inreadability prediction.
It contrasts the CI widthsfor model based intervals and empirical intervals.In both cases, documents of lengths larger than100 words provide CI widths shorter than 1 year.This finding is also noteworthy as it providesempirical support for the long-standing ?rule-of-thumb?
that readability measures become unreli-able for passages of less than 100 words (Fry,1990).3 Experimental ResultsOur experimental study is divided into three parts.The first part examines the word acquisition dis-tributions that were estimated based on readabil-ity data.
The second part compares the estimatedDocument Length95%CI Width0.51.01.52.02.53.050 100 150 200Figure 1: A comparison of model (dashed) vs. em-pirical (solid) 95% confidence interval widths as afunction of document length (r = 0.9 and s =0.7).
CI widths were computed using 1000 MonteCarlo samples generated from the fWmodel fit tothe data and from the empirical distribution.
Worddistributions correspond to a 1577 word documentwritten for a 7th grade audience taken from theWeb 1-12 corpus.
(written) acquisition ages with oral acquisitionages obtained from interview studies reported inthe literature.
The third part focuses on using theestimated word acquisition distributions to predictdocument readability.
These three experimentalstudies are described in the three subsections be-low.In our experiments we used three readabilitydatasets.
The corpora were compiled by crawl-ing web pages containing documents authored foraudiences of specific grade levels.
The Web 1-12 data contains 373 documents, with each doc-ument written for a particular school grade levelin the range 1-12.
The Weekly Reader (WR)dataset, was obtained by crawling the commercialwebsite www.wrtoolkit.com after receiving spe-cial permission.
That dataset contains a total of1780 documents, with 4 readability levels rang-ing from 2 to 5 indicating the school grade lev-els of the intended audience.
A total of 788 doc-uments with readability between grades 2 and 5and having length greater than 50 words were se-lected from 1780 documents.
The Reading A-Zdataset, contains a set of 215 documents was ob-tained from Reading A-Z.com, spanning grade 1through grade 6.The grade levels in these three corpora, whichcorrespond to US school grades, were either ex-plicitly specified by the organization or authors902who created the text, or implicit in the class-room curriculum page where the document wasacquired.
The pages were drawn from a widerange of subject areas, including history, science,geography, and fiction.To reduce the possibility of overfitting, we useda common feature selection technique of eliminat-ing words appearing in less than 4 documents.
Inthe experiments we used maximum likelihood toestimate the model parameters {(?w, ?2w) : w ?V } for the Rasch model (3).
The maximum likeli-hood was obtained using a non-smooth coordinatedescent procedure.3.1 Estimation of Word AcquisitionDistributionsFigure 2 displays the inferred age acquisition dis-tributions and empirical word appearances of threewords: thought (left), multitude (middle),and assimilate (right).
In these plots, the em-pirical cdf of word appearances is indicated by apiecewise constant line while the probability den-sity function of the estimated AoA distribution isindicated by a dashed line.
The vertical line in-dicates the 0.8 quantile of the AoA distributionwhich corresponds to the grade by which 80% ofthe children have acquired the word.The word assimilation appears in 2 doc-uments having 12th grade readability.
The highgrade level of these documents results in a high es-timated acquisition age and the paucity of observa-tions leads to a large uncertainty in this estimate asseen by the variance of the acquisition age distri-bution.
The word thought appears several timesin multiple grades.
It is first observed in the 1stgrade and not again until the 4th grade resulting inan estimated acquisition age falling between thetwo.
The variance of this acquisition distributionis relatively small due to the frequent use of thisword.
The empirical cdf shows that multitudeis used in grades 6, 8, and 9.
Relative to thoughtand assimilation the word multitude wasused less and more frequently respectively, whichleads to an acquisition age distribution with alarger variance than that of thought and smallerthan that of assimilation.The relationship in Figure 2 between the em-pirical word appearances and the age acquisitiondistribution demonstrates the following behavior:(a) The variance of the age acquisition distribu-tion goes down as the word appears in more doc-uments, and (b) the mean of the AoA distributiontends to be lower than the mean of the empiricalword appearance distribution, and in many caseseven smaller than the first grade in which the wordappeared.
This is to be expected as authors usespecific words only after they believe the wordswere acquired by a large portion of the intendedaudience.3.2 Comparison with Oral StudiesAmong the related work in the linguistic commu-nity, are several studies concerning oral acquisi-tions of words.
These studies estimate the ageat which a word is acquired for oral use basedan interview processes with participating adults.We focus specifically on the seminal study of ac-quisition ages performed by Gilhooly and Logie(GL) (1980) and made available through the MRCdatabase (Coltheart, 1981).There are some substantial differences betweenthese previous studies and our approach.
We an-alyze the age acquisition process through docu-ment readability which leads to a written, ratherthan oral, notion of word acquisition.
Further-more, our estimates are based on documents writ-ten with a specific audience in mind, while the pre-vious studies are based on interviewing adults re-garding their childhood word acquisition processwhich is arguably less reliable due to the age dif-ference between the acquisition and the interview.Finally, the GL study was performed in the late1970s while our study uses contemporary internetdata.
Conceivably, the word acquisition processchanged over the past 3 decades.Despite these differences, it is interesting tocontrast our inferred age acquisitions with the GLstudy and consider the differences and similari-ties.
Figure 3 displays the relationship betweenthe GL age of acquisition (AoA) and the acquisi-tion ages obtained from readability data based onthe s = 0.8 quantile.
Some correlation is present(r2 = 0.34) but the two measures differ consid-erably.
As expected, the acquisition ages obtainedfrom written readability data tend to be higher thanthe oral studies.
The distributions of differencesbetween the GL acquisition ages and the ones in-ferred from the readability data appears in Fig-ure 4.Comparing the acquisition ages obtained fromreadability data to the GL study results in a meanabsolute error of 0.9 to 1.5, depending on the spe-9035 10 15mu: 1.9sigma: 0.55 10 15mu: 5sigma: 1.25 10 15mu: 9sigma: 3.4Figure 2: A comparison of empirical word appearances and AoA distributions for three words:thought (left), multitude (middle), and assimilation (right).
The empirical cdf of word ap-pearances appears as a piecewise constant line and the estimated pdf is indicated by the dashed curvewith its 0.8 quantile indicated by a vertical line.cific value of the Rasch parameter ?.
Interestingly,the tendency for the written acquisition age to ex-ceed the oral one diminishes as the grade level in-creases.
This represents the notion that at highergrades words are acquired in both oral and writtensenses at the same age.Predicted versus Oral Acquisition AgeGL AoAPredictedAoA2468102 4 6 8 10Figure 3: A scatter plot (s = 80, n = 50) of pre-dicted age of acquisition versus Gilhooly and Lo-gie?s values reveals the tendency for the writtenestimate to exceed the oral estimate (r2 = 0.34).A comparison to two more recent studies con-firms relationships that are similar to those ob-served with GL AoA.
The Bristol Norm study(Stadthagen-Gonzalez and Davis, 2006) was per-formed in an identical way to the GL study andcomparing the lists of acquisition ages resultsin a mean absolute error of approximately 0.5which is much lower than the .9 to 1.5 relative toGL.
The recent AoA list of Cortese and Khanna(2008) showed an increase in correlation relativeto the GL study (r2 = 0.43) potentially reflectingchange in the acquisition process due to temporaleffects.Residual Distribution: Predicted AoA versus Oral AoAS?percentile=80Error (Predicted AoA ?
Actual AoA)Percent05101520?4 ?2 0 2 4Figure 4: The difference distribution betweenthe GL and the inferred AoA from Web 1-12 isskewed to the right as would be expected sincewritten AoA is higher than oral AoA.
Relaxingthe definition of readability by decreasing s re-sults in higher inferred acquisition ages.
Valuesof s in [0.5, 0.9] produced reasonable results, withs = 0.65 achieving smallest mean absolute error.Those words that have the same written andverbal acquisition age are partially attributable tothose words learned prior to first grade.
Manywords are learned between the ages of 2 and 5,while reading materials are typically not assigneda grade level of less than 1 or age 6.
Approxi-mately 40% of the words assigned the same gradelevel by both Gilhooly and our prediction had anAoA of 1st grade.In some cases, the ages of acquisition obtainedfrom readability data is actually lower than theages reported in the older oral studies.
This phe-nomenon is likely caused by a combination ofa shift in educational standards, a change in so-cial standards, or estimation errors due to samplesize and modeling assumptions.
Approximately90430 years have passed since Gilhooly and Logie?sstudy was conducted.
Specifically, society hasmade efforts to enhance the safety and health ofchildren and to increase the attention to scienceeducation in very early grades.
For example, theword drug appeared in writing 0.94 grades ear-lier than the age in which it was acquired orallyaccording to the GL study.
The newer BristolNorm study confirms this observation as it pre-dicts a decrease in grade level for drug of 0.88over GL as well.
A similar decrease in acqui-sition age relative to the GL norms was notedfor many other words such as hypothesis,conclusion, engineer, diet, exercise,and vitamin.3.3 Global Readability PredictionOnce acquisition age distributions are available,whether estimated statistically from data or ob-tained from a survey, they may be used to predictthe grade level of novel documents.
Specifically,the model predicts readability level t?
for a noveldocument d if it is the minimal grade for whichreadability is established:t?= min{t : P (d is readable at age t) ?
?
(t)}(5)where ?
(t) is a parameter describing the strictnessof the readability requirement.
Note that we allow?
(t) to vary as a function of time (grade level).
Wediscuss the justification for this below.A critical issue for reading difficulty predic-tion is how to handle words that appear in a newdocument that have never been seen in the train-ing/development texts.
In a statistical approach,the solution to this smoothing problem has twosteps.
First, we must decide how much total proba-bility mass to allocate to all unknown words.
Sec-ond, we must decide how to subdivide this totalmass for individual words or classes of words us-ing word-specific priors.Our experience suggests that the first step ofestimating total probability mass is particularlyimportant: the likelihood of seeing an unknownword increases as a function of total vocabularysize, which is continuously growing with time.We model this by defining the following dynamicthreshold?
(t) =exp(at?
0.5)1 + exp(at?
0.5).
(6)We learn the growth rate parameter a in (6) fromthe data at the same time as we learn the read-ability model?s quantile parameters s = 1 ?
?1,r = 1 ?
?2.
The range of the resulting ?
(t) istypically 0.5 in lower grades, increasing to 0.9 inhigher grades.
We discuss fitting these parametersand their optimal values further in Sec.
3.3.1.
Wefound that using any fixed ?
value for all gradeswas generally much less effective than a dynamic?
(t) threshold, and so we focus on the latter in ourevaluation.For the second (word-specific) smoothing step,we simply assign uniform probability acrossgrades, once the total unseen mass is determined.More sophisticated word-specific priors incorpo-rating word length, morphological features, se-mantic clusters and so on are certainly possibleand an interesting direction for future work.In the following section we conduct three exper-iments involving readability prediction.
First, weconfirm the effectiveness of the AoA-based modelcompared to other predictive models.
Second, weexamine how prediction effectiveness is affectedwhen our learned (written) acquisition ages are re-placed with existing oral AoA norms.
Third, weexamine the ability of our model to generalize tonew content by training and testing on different(non-overlapping) corpora.3.3.1 Effectiveness of Readability PredictionIn order to assess the effectiveness of our modelin predicting the readability grade levels of noveldocuments we apply the model to two corpora.First, we use the Web 1-12 corpus to learn opti-mal parameter values for a , r, and s and then as-sess prediction error using a test-training paradigmfor the proposed model, Naive Bayes, and supportvector regression.
Second, the trained model is ap-plied with to the Reader A-Z corpus and the resultsare compared with alternative semantic variables.Because corpora can vary significantly in text ho-mogeneity, amount of noise, document size, andother factors, training and testing across differentcorpora ?
rather than relying on cross-validationwith a single pooled dataset ?
gives valuable in-formation about how a prediction method mightbe expected to perform on data with widely differ-ent characteristics.
This particular choice of Web1-12 for training and ReadingA-Z for testing wasarbitrary.To evaluate the best values for the a parameterin (6) and s, r parameters in Definition 1 we gen-905Readability Level Prediction: MAE and CorrelationS?th PercentileMeanAbsoluteError1230.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.900.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.80.91CorrelationFigure 5: Mean absolute error (MAE) and correla-tion coefficient as functions of the quantile param-eter s at optimal levels of a and r, averaged over100 training/test samples.
The MAE is displayedas the solid line and is aligned with the left axiswhile the correlation is displayed as a dashed lineand is aligned with the right axis.
90% bootstrapconfidence intervals are displayed.erated 100 independent test and training samplesand computed the mean absolute prediction error(MAE) and the correlation coefficient between thepredicted and actual levels.
Figure 5 (left) showsthese two quantities: in each group of three lines,the top and bottom lines delineate the upper andlower 90% confidence bounds for the middle line.Each middle line gives mean error or correlationas a function of the quantile parameter s at opti-mal levels of r and a, averaged over the 100 train-ing/test samples.
The optimal value of s for bothquantities is around 0.6 (0.65 for the MAE).
Theoptimal value for parameter a was approximately1.55.
The best MAE is 1.4 which compares favor-ably to the 2.92 MAE obtained by always predict-ing Grade 6 which is the optimal ?dumb?
classifierin the sense that of all constant predictors it pro-vides the smallest expected MSE over a uniformgrade distribution as is the case with the Web1-12 corpus.
Figure 6 is a scatter plot comparingpredicted grades vs. actual grades, with a strongcorrelation of 0.89.We compared the predictions of model (3) totwo standard classifiers: naive Bayes and supportvector regression (SVR).
SVR was applied twiceusing different sets of features - once with the doc-ument word frequencies and once with the esti-Predicted v Actual Grade LevelActual Grade LevelPredictedGradeLevel246810122 4 6 8 10 12Figure 6: The scatter plot demonstrates the strongrelationship between predicted and actual globalreadability levels.Prediction Rule MAE LB UBAge of Acquisition 1.40 1.19 1.67Naive Bayes 1.98 1.71 2.26SVR (word frequency) 1.86 1.69 2.06SVR (AoA percentiles) 1.36 1.22 1.58Grade 6 2.92 - -Figure 7: A comparison of mean absolute error(MAE) across prediction algorithms shows the ageof acquisition model compares favorably.
Theconfidence bounds (LB,UB) were computed by re-peating each model building procedure 100 times.mated AoA percentiles for the document words.The document word frequency vector is compa-rable to the semantic component of the machinelearning approach used by (Heilman et al, 2008).The 75-25 training-test model building paradigmwas used over documents from grades 1 to 12to obtain predicted values.
The MAE for thesepredictors and their 90% confidence intervals areshown in Figure 7.
Predicting readability usingword frequencies had inferior performance, withthe naive Bayes model performing poorly and theSVR and Rasch model obtaining MAE around 1.4.In the second experiment, we compared ourmodel to published correlation results (Collins-Thompson and Callan, 2005) for multiple alter-native semantic variables using the same ReadingA-Z corpus, with the results shown in Fig.
8.
De-tails on these semantic variables, which have beenused in previous statistical learning approaches,are available in the same study.
Interestingly, thecorrelation of the model was comparable to ex-906Correlation CorrelationGL (Web) .65 UNK .78GL (WR) .40 Type .86Bristol (Web) .76 MLF .49Bristol (WR) .57 FK .30Inferred (Web) .59 Unigram .63Figure 8: Comparison of the correlation of AoAand other semantic variables with grade level forthe Reading A-Z corpus, showing the AoA modelwith the dynamic threshold compares well to ex-isting methods.
The competitor methods usedare from (Collins-Thompson and Callan, 2005)and comprise the Smoothed Unigram, UNK (rel-ative to revised Dale-Chall), TYPE (number ofunique words), MLF (mean log frequency), andFK (Flesch-Kincaid readability).isting variables, but did vary depending upon thesource of AoA.
Note that because the Reading A-Ztexts were assigned grades by their creators usingsome of the same semantic variables (e.g.
Type),it is not surprising that those variables perform es-pecially well on this dataset.High quality readability prediction is a worth-while result in itself; however, we can also use theprediction mechanism to study the validity of Def-inition 1 and the Rasch model.
We do so by apply-ing other predictive algorithms using the inferredacquisition age distribution for each document asthe predictor variables and comparing the MAEwith the MAE obtained by the estimated Raschmodel.
In particular, we examine the performanceof support vector regression (SVR) using the esti-mated AoA percentiles for each document as pre-dictor variables.
The results displayed in Fig-ure 7 show that SVR and the dynamic thresholdprediction rule perform similarly well, suggestingthat Definition 1 and the Rasch model are suitablemodels for readability prediction.3.3.2 Prediction with Existing AcquisitionAge NormsWe now examine how predicting readability ofnovel documents using acquisition ages obtainedin surveys perform in comparison to the ages ob-tained from the maximum likelihood estimation.We use the GL and Bristol age of acquisitionnorms.
The intersection of AoA norm data and theWeb Corpus are 1217 and 1012 words respectivelyfor the GL and Bristol measure; additionally, thehighest grade level associated with these word setsS-th DynamicPrediction Rule Percentile ThresholdAge of Acquisition 1.69 1.40GL Norms 1.73 1.42Bristol Norms 1.97 1.79Figure 9: The Gilhooly and Logie AoA norms andthe Bristol norms are independent sources for agesof acquisition.
A comparison of the predictionquality using these norms shows two things: 1) thedefinition provides comparable prediction qualityusing expert norms, and 2) the dynamic threshold?
(t) improves prediction over the static threshold(optimal s-th percentile) for the norms.AoA WeeklySource Web 1-12 ReaderInferred (Weekly Reader) - .91Inferred (Web 1-12) 1.89 -GL 2.05 1.14Bristol 1.57 1.34Figure 10: The readability of WR documents waspredicted using 4 sources of AoA data.
The pa-rameters of the prediction model were fit usingonly the Web data, or the WR data, or both sourcesin the case of the GL and Bristol norms AoA data.are eight and seven respectively.
When applyingthe prediction rule using AoA norms r is implic-itly selected in the norming process as the resultis a single value instead of a distribution.
Interest-ingly, the optimal ranges of s-percentile, from 92to 100, were the same for both the GL and Bristolnorms.
Table 9 shows that the prediction accuracyobtained using the GL Norms was almost identicalto that obtained with the inferred AoA, while theBristol Norms performed as well as some of thecompetitor procedures.3.3.3 Prediction Effectiveness acrossDifferent CorporaTo provide additional evidence for our model?sability to generalize to new corpora, we exam-ine how the learned r and s values vary when themodel is learned on one corpus and evaluated onanother, and how this affects the accuracy of thereadability prediction.Figure 10 demonstrates the corpus used for tun-ing the readability prediction has a large impacton the quality of the prediction.
Comparing theMAE of the readability predictions on WR data907when the age of acquisition is inferred from Webdata to the MAE when the AoA is inferred fromWR data shows the error rate more than doublesfrom 0.90 to 1.89.
The increase in error rate alsoappears when the age of acquisition for WR datais predicted using the AoA norm data.
In this casethe prediction was performed using the parametersidentified when the model was trained on Web dataand when the model was trained on WR data.
Ineach case a tendency to overfit appears as the MAEincreases from 1.14 to 2.05 for the GL norms and1.34 to 1.57 for the Bristol norms.
Interestingly,the Bristol norms perform better on WR data whenfit using the Web data, while the GL norms per-form better when fit using the WR data.4 Related WorkAge of acquisition for word reading and under-standing has been extensively studied as a learn-ing factor in the psycholinguistics literature, whereAoA norms have been obtained using surveys.
Ex-amples of relevant literature are (Gilhooly and Lo-gie, 1980; Zevin and Seidenberg, 2002).
Our ap-proach differs by connecting AoA to readabilitythrough Definition 1 and using readability data toestimate AoA norms from large amounts of au-thentic language data.
A related study is that byCrossley et al (2007) who used AoA to help dis-criminate between authentic and simplified textsfor second-language readers.In the past decade, there has been renewed in-terest in corpus-based statistical models for read-ability prediction.
One example is the popularLexile measure (Stenner, 1996) which uses wordfrequency statistics from a large English corpus.Collins-Thompson and Callan (2005) introduced anew approach based on statistical language mod-eling, treating a document as a mixture of lan-guage models for individual grades.
Further re-cent refinements in methods for readability predic-tion include using machine learning methods suchas Support Vector Machines (Schwarm and Os-tendorf, 2005), log-linear models (Heilman et al,2008), k-NN classifiers and combining semanticand grammatical features (Heilman et al, 2007).The growing number of features investigated bythese machine learning approaches reflect the factthat reading difficulty is a complex phenomenoninvolving many factors, from semantic difficulty(vocabulary) to syntax and discourse complex-ity, reader background, and others.
While a full-featured comparison between previous approachesthat includes AoA features would be very inter-esting, our goal in this study was to provide aclear analysis of the most fundamental factor ofreadability, semantic difficulty, which accounts for80-90% of the variance in readability predictionscores (Chall and Dale, 1995).
Because AoA isa semantic, vocabulary-based representation, wecompare its effectiveness with the correspond-ing semantic components from previous machine-learning approaches in Sec.
3.3.1.5 DiscussionWhile there have been several recent studies re-garding word acquisition and readability our workis the first to provide a quantitative connection be-tween these two concepts in a statistically mean-ingful way.
The core assumption that we makeis Definition 1 which is consistent with standardreadability definitions e.g., (Chall and Dale, 1995)and states that document readability level is deter-mined by most people understanding most words.The connection between word acquisition andreadability is both intuitive and useful.
It allowstwo degrees of freedom s = 1?
?1and r = 1?
?2to handle situations where different readability no-tions exist.
Experiments validate the model anddemonstrate interesting trends in word acquisi-tions as compared to older oral acquisition stud-ies.
Experimental results show that the proposedmodel is also effective in terms of predicting read-ability level of documents on multiple datasets.It compares favorably to naive Bayes and sup-port vector regression, the latter being one of thestrongest regression baselines.AcknowledgmentsThe authors thank Joshua Dillon for downloadingthe weekly reader data and pre-processing it.
Thework described in this paper was funded in part byNSF grant DMS-0604486.ReferencesJ.
S. Chall and E. Dale.
1995.
Readability Revisited:The New Dale-Chall Readability Formula.
Brook-line Books, Brookline, MA.K.
Collins-Thompson and J. Callan.
2005.
Predictingreading difficulty with statistical language models.J.
of the American Soc.
for Info.
Science and Tech.,56(13):598?605.908M.
Coltheart.
1981.
The MRC psycholinguisticdatabase.
Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psy-chology, 33A:497?505.M.
Cortese and M. Khanna.
2008.
Age acquisitionratings for 3000 monosyllabic words.
Behavior Re-search Methods, 40:791?794.S.
A. Crossley, P. M. McCarthy, and D. S. McNa-mara.
2007.
Discriminating between second lan-guage learning text-types.
In Proc.
of the Twenti-eth International Florida Artificial Intelligence Re-search Society Conference.H.
A. David and H. N. Nagaraja.
2003.
Order Statis-tics.
Wiley, Marblehead, MA.E.
Fry.
1990.
A readability formula for short passages.Journal of Reading.K.
J. Gilhooly and R. H. Logie.
1980.
Age of acquisi-tion, imagery, concreteness, familiarity and ambigu-ity measures for 1944 words.
Behaviour ResearchMethods and Instrumentation, 12:395?427.M.
Heilman, K. Collins-Thompson, J. Callan, andM.
Eskenazi.
2007.
Combining lexical and gram-matical features to improve readability measures forfirst and second language texts.
In Proc.
of the Hu-man Language Technology Conference.M.
Heilman, K. Collins-Thompson, and M. Eskenazi.2008.
An analysis of statistical models and featuresfor reading difficulty prediction.
In The 3rd Work-shop on Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educa-tional Applications.S.
E. Schwarm and M. Ostendorf.
2005.
Reading levelassessment using support vector machines and sta-tistical language models.
In Proc.
of the Associationof Computational Linguistics.H.
Stadthagen-Gonzalez and C. J. Davis.
2006.
Thebristol norms for age of acquisition, imageabil-ity, and familiarity.
Behavior Research Methods,38:598?605.A.
J. Stenner.
1996.
Measuring reading comprehen-sion with the Lexile Framework.
Metametrics, Inc.,Durham, NC.J.
D. Zevin and M. S. Seidenberg.
2002.
Age of acqui-sition effects in word reading and other tasks.
Jour-nal of Memory and Language, 47(1):1?29.909
