Proceedings of the 2010 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 953?960,MIT, Massachusetts, USA, 9-11 October 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsAn approach for generating personalized views from normalizedelectronic dictionaries : A practical experiment onArabic languageAida KhemakhemMIRACL LaboratoryFSEGS, B.P.
1088,3018 Sfax, Tunisiakhemakhem.aida@gmail.comBilel GargouriMIRACL LaboratoryFSEGS, B.P.
1088,3018 Sfax, Tunisiabilel.gargouri@fsegs.rnu.tnAbdelmajid Ben HamadouMIRACL LaboratoryISIMS, Cit?
Ons,3021 Sfax, Tunisiaabdelmajid.benhamadou@isimsf.rnu.tnAbstractElectronic dictionaries covering all naturallanguage levels are very relevant for the hu-man use as well as for the automaticprocessing use, namely those constructedwith respect to international standards.
Suchdictionaries are characterized by a complexstructure and an important access time whenusing a querying system.
However, the needof a user is generally limited to a part of sucha dictionary according to his domain and ex-pertise level which corresponds to a specia-lized dictionary.
Given the importance ofmanaging a unified dictionary and consider-ing the personalized needs of users, we pro-pose an approach for generating personalizedviews starting from a normalized dictionarywith respect to Lexical Markup FrameworkLMF-ISO 24613 norm.
This approach pro-vides the re-use of already defined views fora community of users by managing their pro-files information and promoting the materia-lization of the generated views.
It is com-posed of four main steps: (i) the projection ofdata categories controlled by a set of con-straints (related to the user?s profiles), (ii) theselection of values with consistency check-ing, (iii) the automatic generation of thequery?s model and finally, (iv) the refinementof the view.
The proposed approach was con-solidated by carrying out an experiment on anLMF normalized Arabic dictionary.1 IntroductionElectronic dictionaries are very useful in nowa-days society, with the globalization and the in-crease of world communication and exchanges.There are clearly identified needs of dictionariesfor human use as well as for automatic processinguse.Given the importance of having recourse tostandards when constructing such lexical re-sources in order to promote the reuse and the fu-sion, the standardization committee ISOTC37/SC4 has recently validated the LexicalMarkup Framework norm (LMF) project underthe standard ISO 24 613 (Francopoulo and George2008).
LMF provides a common and shared repre-sentation of lexical objects that allows for the en-coding of rich linguistic information, includingamong others morphological, syntactic, and se-mantic aspects.
The LMF proposal is distin-guished by the separate management of the hierar-chical data structure (meta-model) and elementarylinguistic descriptors (data categories) which pro-motes to cover several languages.A normalized dictionary covers wide areas thatinclude all lexical information of a given languageand which are useful both for human use and forNatural Language Processing use in accordancewith the kind of the user (linguist, lexicographer,developer,  etc.
),  the level of the user (learner,expert, etc.)
and the domain of the use (linguistic,medicine, biology, etc.).
These dictionaries arecharacterized by a complex structure that supportsthe richness of natural languages.
Therefore, deal-ing with a unique and complete dictionary is wellfor the manage task.
However, such dictionariesare large and can be time consuming when query-ing their contents especially on the web.
Moreo-ver, displaying all details when some of which arenot useful for the field of the query research is a953nuisance for the user.
So, it will be interesting toreduce the displayed details according to the do-main or to the expertise level of the user by gene-rating personalized views (virtual or materialized)in order to appropriate the use of such dictionariesto the user needs.The idea of creating document views is not anew concept but applying it on LMF normalizeddictionaries is a new one.
Indeed, it has been someattempts for dictionary creating in accordance tothe TEI consortium (V?ronis and Ide 1996) but theproblem was the fact that created textual views(corresponding to the surface structure) or database views (corresponding to the deep structure)were not customized.
Others propositions are veryinteresting but they concern the ontology domainwhen dealing with the concept of point of view(Corby and al 2005).In this paper, we propose an approach that favorsthe use of normalized dictionaries by generatingvirtual/materialized personalized views.
This ap-proach is based on the profiles information asso-ciated to user?s community which helps to retrievealready defined views stored in a library of views.For the illustration, we use an Arabic LMF norma-lized dictionary (Baccar and al.
2008, Khemak-hem and al., 2009) developed in the framework ofan Arabic project supervised by the ALECSO(The Arab League Educational, Cultural andScientific Organization) and founded by the Uni-versity of King Abdul-Aziz in the Kingdom ofSaudi Arabia1 .
An environment supporting theproposed approach was implemented.
At present,it concerns the Arabic language.The present paper is outlined as follows.
We willstart by giving an overview of projects that useLMF notably for the construction and the exploi-tation of electronic dictionaries.
Then, we willpresent the foundation of the proposed approachrelated to the profile and the view concepts.
Afterthat, we will explain the different steps of theview?s generating approach.
Finally, we will bringback the experimentation that we carried out on anormalized Arabic dictionary using the proposedapproach.2 State of the art of projects using LMFAfter the emergence of LMF, some projects werelaunched in order to construct or exploit electronic1 www.almuajam.orgdictionaries in accordance with this norm.
Amongothers we note LEXUS (Kirsch 2005) (Kemps-Snijders and al 2006), LIRICS (LIRICS 2005) andLMF-QL (Ben Abderrahmen and al 2007).
Allthese labors have been recourse to Web servicetechnology that favors to invoke, locally or afar,appropriate services for the management or theexploitation of a normalized dictionary.LEXUS offers an interface permitting to the userto define formats of lexical bases with a perspec-tive to enable the construction of lexical bases ac-cording to the LMF model.
However, it does notallow the verification of the compliance betweenthe model and the norm.LIRICS proposes some APIs that focus especial-ly on the management of lexical data base.
TheseAPIs offer the possibility to work on the structureof the LMF base by adding, modifying or deletingcomponents of LMF model.
However, there is nointerface which facilitates the use of these APIs.LMF-QL provides Web services to be usedwhile developing lingware systems.
These servic-es offer the exploitation of a normalized lexicalbase without having any piece of informationabout its content and its structure.
The results ofthese services may be personalized dictionariesgiven in an XML format.
However, it covers onlythe morphological level.Concerning the construction of personalized dic-tionaries using the works mentioned above, wecan notice that the user must have an idea aboutthe content of the desired dictionary and its struc-ture.
He must also have acquaintances with que-ries generation to satisfy his requirements.Finally, we note an absence of works dealingwith the generation of views starting from LMFstandardized dictionary.3 Foundation of the approachAn electronic dictionary can be used by many us-ers who have different requirements.
Indeed, bybeing a language learner, a researcher in linguis-tics or a teacher?s, needs and uses are not thesame.
Therefore, it will be better to have a tool(editor) allowing generating a suitable view.
Themaking of a view of the dictionary might be diffi-cult for some kinds of users, so the recourse touser profiles may facilitate this task.
One can notethat the user profile is very important to guide theuser through the retrieval and the reuse of existentviews corresponding to his profile.9543.1 A user profile definitionGenerally, all features characterizing a user or agroup of users can be grouped under the term of auser profile.
For electronic dictionaries, a userprofile is a dataset that concerns a community ofusers of the dictionary.Every profile is characterized by a category, a lev-el of expertise and a field.
Indeed, we classify theviews of the dictionary according to a profile thatis based on a selection of these three criteria.
Theformal representation of a profile is the following:P : < K, L, F>K: the kind of user: lexicographer, linguist, ling-ware system developer, etc.L: the level of the expertise: beginner, student,expert, etc.F: the field of user: medicine, sport, biology, gen-eral, etc.3.2 A View definitionA view of a dictionary is a synthesis of a dictio-nary interrogation query.
We can consider it as aspecialized or lexical dictionary, supported by aquery.A dictionary view allows to filter some lexico-graphic information and to hide others that areuseless for some users.The formal representation of a view:View : < D, P, C >D: dictionary: each view is specific to a norma-lized dictionary.P: profile of the view (see previous section).C: it is a set of properties which characterizes themodel of the view.
Each property has the follow-ing representation:C : <A, V, W>A: attribute is a simple representation of a charac-teristic model.
This characteristic may be a class(Lemma, Sense?
), a feature (definition, pos, ge-nre,?)
or a relationship (RelatedForm, SenseRe-lation?)
as indicated in Figure 3.V: value: each attribute can have a set of values.For example, the values verb and noun for theattribute POS (Part Of Speech).W: weight of a property.
It may take the values 0or 1.?
If the weight equals to 0, then this proper-ty is mandatory only for part of the lexicalentry.?
If the weight equals to 1, then this proper-ty is mandatory for each lexical entry of thisview.3.3 Different types of viewsThere are two types of views:?
Virtual view: the results of this view arecalculated upon request.
In this case, inter-rogating queries of this view might generatea composed query that interrogates directlythe principal dictionary (underlying).?
Materialized view (physical): a physicalcopy faithful to the view definition which isstored and maintained.4 Proposed approachIn this section we describe the proposed approachthrough the detail that we will give for each one ofits four steps.
These steps are illustrated in Figure1.?
Projection of the view model: includes thespecification of data categories (linguistic in-formation), controlled by constraints in orderto build a suitable normalized and valid mod-el.
It can be started by already existing pro-files.?
Selection and checkout of the coherence:concerns the specification of some values fordata categories (DC) already specified.
Weuse coherence rules to check the constancyknowing that there are strong dependenciesbetween some DCs and values of other DCs(see section 4.2).?
Automatic generation of the model and thequery: includes the model refinement and thechecking of constraints by priority.?
Refinement of the view: involves the valida-tion of a new view of dictionary, by addingthe elements that are related to the lexical en-tries of this view.955Figure 1.The approach for generating personalized dictionary views.4.1 Projection of the view modelThe UML model of the dictionary is difficult tounderstand.
So, we suggest a simpler represen-tation which is more abstract.
The choice can bestarted by already existing profiles in order toavoid views redundancy by the reuse of the pre-vious ones and help users.a.
The specification of a profileA user profile is a description that correspondsto a user community.
We use the features ofprofile to filter the DCs.
Indeed, we offer to theuser only DCs that correspond to its field and itslevel based on the weight assigned to each DC.We assigned these weights according to a studyon the needs of each user level.
This study isbased on the specific documents and dictiona-ries for each user level.
By example for begin-ner level, we studied the school books to extractthe information (root, schema,?)
needed at thislevel.It also facilitates and accelerates the task ofneeds specification and permits to avoid viewsredundancy.
The projection phase is started bythe specification of the user profile that requiresthe choice of its category, its level and its field.Then, if the user wants to consult the previousviews of his profile, we display all the viewsassociated to this profile.
Otherwise, we offerthe DCs specific to its field and its level.b.
ConstraintsThe abstraction of the model can hides relationsbetween DCs.
Indeed, during their specificationthere is a risk of having views with a non validRefinement of theviewno yesSpecification of a profileSpecification of the view modelAutomatic generation of the DTD andthe queryView creationrequestvirtual viewFilter storageGeneration of the new ver-sion of the dictionaryView filterMaterialized viewDictionaryProfilesConstraintsCoherencerulesSelectionandcheckout of thecoherenceProjectionOf theviewmodelviewSpecification of valuesCoherence checkout956model.
So, the DC specification must be con-trolled by constraints rules such as:?
If we select the field, the semantic class orthe nature then the definition must be se-lected.?
If the relation between syntactic behaviorsand senses is selected then the definitionmust be selected.4.2 Selection and checkout of the cohe-renceMost of data categories use a list of values suchas part-of-speech (pos), scheme, field, etc.
Val-ues specification of some DCs might influencethe presence or the absence of the other DCs.For example, if the user has chosen DCs: pos,root, scheme, gender and number; then, he hasfixed the value du pos =?particle?
(it means thathe needs only particles) and the value of thenumber =?singular?.
In this case, we note anincoherence problem since the DC ?number?
isamong particles characteristics but it concernsnouns.
In this case, we must request the user torectify the specifications.
The selection mustcontain a checkout phase of coherence of DCsspecified with the already existing data in thedictionary.
This phase is based on coherencerules which ensure consistency between DCsand the specified values.4.3 Automatic generation of the DTD andthe queryWe use the Document Type Definition (DTD)of the LMF norm and DC specifications of themodel to automatically generate the DTD of theview.
We use algorithms to generate DTD ele-ments, respecting the order of the participatingclasses and ensuring classes relations.The automatic generation of the query (i.e.
us-ing XQuery) involves two steps: the first oneconcern the specification of conditions for theselection of a lexical entry and its related infor-mation (i.e., semantic, syntactic).
The secondstep permits the definition of an XML represen-tation of a lexical entry.
This step is based onthe projection specified by the user and thepriority order of DCs.
There are DCs that influ-ence the presence of the lexical entry and othersthat only influence the presence of the sense.4.4 Refinement of the viewThe steps of this phase depend on the type ofthe view.
If it?s a virtual one, then it?s necessaryto save the query already generated.
This querywill be used during the operation of this view.
Ifit?s a materialized one, then query results are apart of the dictionary and must be saved for theoperation of the view.
The second case maygive us a non valid XML base, especially whenthere are two lexical entries in relation and ourquery will select one of them that have an iden-tifier of the other entry that is not selected.
Werecall that the lexical entries may have morpho-logical links with other lexical entries and se-mantic links with other senses.Indeed, after recording query?s results, wemove to the step of refinement.
This step con-sists to valid the new personalized dictionary,adding lexical entries, senses and syntacticframe in relation with these results.5 Experimentation5.1 The normalized Arabic dictionaryIn order to experiment our approach, we aregoing to use the normalized Arabic interactivedictionary containing more than 38000 lexicalentries and developed in the framework of anArabic project 2  supervised by the ALECSO.This dictionary is modeled according to the me-ta-model proposed by LMF3 (ISO 24613) anduses data categories generated by the DCR 4norm (ISO 12620).
The dictionary pattern iscomposed of classes selected from the kernel orfrom one of its extensions (morphological, se-mantic, syntactic, MRD) in order to see a dic-tionary covering most of new dictionary?s needs(Baccar and al 2008).
Since there are many in-formation that can be classified in multi exten-sions in the same time, the norm?s editor havechosen to put them in one of these extensions.For this reason, we did not use only MachineReadable Dictionary (MRD) extension.
Thispattern valorizes derivation phenomenon inArabic language and neutralizes the differencesbetween lexicographical schools, ensuring lan-guage evolution.
In fact, we have considered2 www.almuajam.org/3 www.lexicalmarkupframework.org/4 www.isocat.org/957roots (?
?
?
?k t b?
), derived forms (  ?????
?kata-ba?
(write), ??????
?k?tib?
(writer)), invariablewords ( ???
?inna?
(indeed), ?????
?hatt??
(in order))and non-Arab origin words (???????????
?computer?,????????????
?internet?)
as lexical entries that can havemorphological relations (i.e., RelatedForm rela-tion).In addition, this dictionary is rich with seman-tic information (i.e., definitions, examples, sub-ject field, semantic class) and syntactic informa-tion (i.e., subcategorisation frame).
It ensuresthe link between senses and their possible syn-tactic behaviors.The Figure 2, given below, shows a part of thelexical entry ?
??????
?kataba?
(write) which givesan idea about the structure of this dictionary.Figure 2.
Example of a lexical entry of the normalized Arabic dictionary.In this Figure, we highlight some properties ofthe used dictionary such as:?
The diversity of information: morphology,semantics, syntax, image, video, etc.?
The sense relations (i.e., synonym) link twosenses and not two lexical entries?
The precision of the syntactic behavior.
In-deed, each syntactic behavior has a type; theparticles needed an example and its defini-tion.?
The structure of a lexical entry varies ac-cording to its part of speech5.2 Experiment of the approachWe illustrate in this section the generationprocess of a personalized dictionary view.
Wehave setup a computing system online, that al-lows the user to make his view of the dictionaryin the format of an interactive Web page (soindependent of all material or software owner)in which he will be able to define, create andenhance his personal view.Before starting the generation of the view, theuser must specify his profile.
If the views areassociated with this profile, we will display theirdescription to reuse the existing views and toavoid redundancy.pos : part of speechnat : nature      inf Morp : Morphlogical piece of informationclass : class      def : definitionfield : field       expSyn : example of using a typeexp : example for a sense    type : type of a syntactic framedefnatclassroot pos inf Morp schemefieldexptypeexpSynparticulelemma958Figure 3.
Specification of the user profile.The user must set its category, its level and itsfield.He can select an existing view correspondingto its needs or he can specify its purpose with-out using the existing.
Then, he chooses the cat-egories of data needed.
Next, he can set theirvalues.Figure 4.
Representation of some categories of data and the list of values for selected DCsIn the following Figure 5, we present the keyinformation in the dictionary.
We give an ex-ample of view that includes only the schema,the derivational relations, sense, examples of allthe Arabic verbs (pos = verb).
Then from 38000lexical entries, our view has 7000 verbs and3000 roots i.e.
only 10,000 entries.Figure 5.
Interface for creating a view.In the Figure 5, the user has selected the lem-ma, pos, schema, the derivational relations,etymology, sense, definition and example.
Forpos, he fixed the value of ???????
(verb).
Accord-ing to the specification of requirements, the userclicks the save button.
The system checks thecategory level fieldlemmaposschemerelated formetymologyphoneticlist of posschemetypes of related formlanguage list959consistency of the chosen data categories andvalues, then, it generates a query in the XQuerylanguage (see Figure 6).Figure 6.
Example of a generated queryIf the user chooses a materialized view, thesystem must save the query result in the user'scomputer after refinement (add missing infor-mation to validate the XML document).For the verification of results, the user mustchoose the view before starting the search in thedictionary.
In the following Figure 7, we presentthe results of research in the view already speci-fied in Figure 5.Figure 7.
Displayed results of query appliedon a generated view.6 ConclusionThe construction of specialized dictionaries isan old concept.
However, it has not been usedafter the publication of LMF standard in spite ofthe complexity and the richness of normalizeddictionaries.
In this paper, we proposed an ap-proach allowing the generation of specializedand personalized views of dictionaries accord-ing to users?
profiles in order to benefit from themanagement of a unique dictionary and giveappropriate services.A Practical experiment was carried out on anormalized Arabic dictionary using an appro-priate tool that permits to manage users?
profilesand views?
generation.
We successfully per-formed some empirical illustrations startingfrom the normalized dictionary.In the future, we will consider the experimen-tation of the developed tool in the generation ofvarious personalized views both in virtual andmaterialized versions.
Also, we plan to put upour system on the Web.
Also, we plan to expe-riment our approach on others languages.ReferencesBaccar, F., Khemakhem, A., Gargouri, B., Haddar,K.
and Hamadou, A.B.. 2008.
LMF StandardizedModel for the Editorial Electronic Dictionaries ofArabic.
In Proceedings of NLPCS?08, pp.
64?73.Barcelona, Spain.Ben Abderrahmen M., Gargouri B. and Jmaiel M.2007.
LMF-QL: A Graphical Tool to Query LMFDatabases for NLP and Editorial Use.
BookChapter In: Human Language Technology.
Chal-lenges of the Information Society, Third Lan-guage and Technology Conference, LTC 2007,Poznan, Poland.Corby O., Dieng-Kuntz R., Faron-Zucker C., Gan-don F., Giboin A.
2005.
Le moteur de recherches?mantique Corese.
In Proc.
of the WorkshopRaisonner le web s?mantique avec des graphes,AFIA platform.
Nice.Francopoulo G. and George M. 2008.
ISO/TC 37/SC4 N453 (N330 Rev.16), Language resource mana-gement- Lexical markup framework (LMF).Kemps-Snijders M., Nederhof M.-J.
and WittenburgP.
2006.
LEXUS, ?A web-based tool for manipu-lating lexical resources?.
In LREC 2006.Kirsch K. 2005.
LEXUS Manual.
LEXUS version1.0.LIRICS (Linguistic Infrastructure for InteroperableResource and Systems).
2005.
?Guidelines andtools for producing standards, test-suites andAPI(s)?.V?ronis, J. and Ide, N.1996.
Encodage des diction-naires ?lectroniques: probl?mes et propositionsde la TEI.
In D. Piotrowsky (Ed.
), Lexicograpbieet informatique - Autour de l'informatisation duTr?sor de la Langue Fran?aise.
Actes du ColloqueInternational de Nancy (1996) (pp.
239-261).
Pa-ris: Didier Erudition.960
