Proceedings of the 2013 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 1337?1347,Seattle, Washington, USA, 18-21 October 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsMining New Business Opportunities: Identifying Trend related Products byLeveraging Commercial Intents from MicroblogsJinpeng Wang1, Wayne Xin Zhao1, Haitian Wei2, Hongfei Yan1 and Xiaoming Li11School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science, Peking University, China2Daton Securities Co., Ltd., No.93 Jianguo Rd, Chaoyang District, Beijing, ChinaJooPoo@pku.edu.cn, {batmanfly,haataa.wei,yhf1029}@gmail.com, lxm@pku.edu.cnAbstractHot trends are likely to bring new businessopportunities.
For example, ?Air Pollution?might lead to a significant increase of the salesof related products, e.g., mouth mask.
For e-commerce companies, it is very important tomake rapid and correct response to these hottrends in order to improve product sales.
Inthis paper, we take the initiative to study thetask of how to identify trend related products.The major novelty of our work is that we au-tomatically learn commercial intents revealedfrom microblogs.
We carefully construct a da-ta collection for this task and present quite afew insightful findings.
In order to solve thisproblem, we further propose a graph basedmethod, which jointly models relevance andassociativity.
We perform extensive experi-ments and the results showed that our methodsare very effective.1 IntroductionA trend is a hot topic (e.g., the release of a popularmovie) which is being widely discussed by the pub-lic.
Hot trends usually attract much attention fromthe public, and they are likely to bring new businessopportunities.
Consider the following e-shopping s-cenario.
A user in Beijing would like to buy some-thing to reduce the health impacts of Beijing air pol-lution1.
Different from traditional e-shopping sto-ries, in this case the user may not have a clear idea ofwhat she should buy, and cannot even formulate the1See http://www.nytimes.com/2013/04/04/world/asia/two-major-air-pollutants-increase-in-china.html to find more details about thetrending topic ?Beijing Air Pollution?.purchase needs into a clear query.
Faced with trend-driven business opportunities, e-commerce compa-nies typically ask workers to manually identify relat-ed products and make heuristic rules to match userqueries (e.g., incorporating trending keywords intorelated product titles).To improve trend-driven e-commerce, in this pa-per, we propose to study the novel task of automat-ically identifying trend related products.
Why isit compelling to understand and study trend-drivenproduct purchase?
Because hot trends are closelyrelated to business opportunities directly or indirect-ly.
As a case of direct causal relationship, the world-wide popularity of the movie series ?Harry Potter?created the great success of the original novels of?Harry Potter?.
As a case of indirect causal rela-tionship, the stock rise or salary increase might exertpositive effects on product sale.
Based on our empir-ical analysis (See Section 3), a considerable propor-tion, i.e.
50%, of hot trends discussed on the largestChinese microblog (i.e.
Sina Weibo) indeed havecorresponding product entries in the largest ChineseC2C e-commerce website (i.e.
Taobao), which in-dicates a strong correlation between hot trends andproduct sale.Although the task is important and emergent, ithas at least two major challenges.
First of all, how toinfer users?
trend-driven purchase intents promptly.A trend usually happens unexpectedly.
Without pri-or knowledge and experiences, it is particularly diffi-cult to make rapid response to relate the trend to can-didate products.
Our solution is to leverage trend-related commercial intents from microblogs by min-ing users?
real-time response to a trending topic.
Weadopt the solution based on two key considerations:(1) Microblogs are fast.
As previous studies showed,1337the first story of a trending topic indeed was usu-ally reported in microblogs rather than traditionalnews media (Sakaki et al 2010; Kwak et al 2010;Leskovec et al 2009).
(2) Microblogs contain user-s?
commercial intents.
The microblogging servicehas become one of the most popular social networkplatforms, where users may tweet about their needsand desires (Hollerit et al 2013).
E.g., a microbloguser may complain about the air quality and evincethe desire to buy a mouth mask in a tweet.
The ex-ample indicates we can make use of tweet-level re-latedness to capture the correlation between trendsand products.Second, how to achieve a comprehensive cover-age of related products but not hurting precision.The above solution will miss the related productswhich have not been discussed in microblogs.
Ouridea is to take the associativity between products in-to consideration.
Our definition about associativityis very general and can have different instantiation-s in specific settings.
For example, we can defineproduct associativity to be the similarity betweenproduct descriptions, or the ratio of historical pur-chase records in e-commerce companies.
Howev-er, one-step associativity may not fully discover theunderlying relatedness between products due to thefact that the product associativity is indeed transi-tive.
Thus, a transitable associativity model is need-ed.To address these two challenges, we propose a u-nified graph based ranking algorithm which jointlymodels the above two aspects, i.e., relevance andassociativity.
Given a trend, the algorithm runs inan iterative way and seeks a trade-off between rel-evance and associativity by propagating the scoreson the product graph.
Our contribution can be sum-marized as follows: (1) we introduce the novel taskof identifying trend related products, most of all, wepropose to leverage trend-related commercial intentsfrom microblogs; (2) we present insightful empiri-cal analysis to illustrate the correlation between hottrends and product sale (See Section 3); (3) we pro-pose a novel graph based ranking algorithm whichjointly considers relevance and associativity; (4) wecarefully construct the test collection based on re-al data of the largest microblog and the largest C2Ce-commerce website in China.
(5) we perform ex-tensive experiments and present some important im-plications for practice.To the best of our knowledge, our work was thefirst to consider identifying trend related products byleveraging commercial intents from microblogs.
Webelieve the current work will have important impacton industry and inspire more follow-up research s-tudies.
The rest of this paper is organized as fol-lows.
We present the data collection and empiri-cal analysis of the impact of hot trends on productsale in Section 3.
We present a novel graph-basedmethod in Section 4.
Experimental setup and result-s are discussed in Section 5 and Section 6.
Finally,the related work is discussed in Section 7.
And theconclusions and future work are given in Section 8.2 Problem DefinitionA trend is a hot topic widely discussed by the public,e.g., the release of a hot movie.
Usually, a trend ecan be described by a small set of keywords denotedby Ke and a corresponding time span Te.Trend-related Products Identification: Given atrend e, we assume that the following inputs areavailable: 1) tweets that contain trend keywords Keand 2) a product database which provides a set ofcandidate products P = {p1, p2, ..., pn} with nec-essary detailed information, e.g., titles and descrip-tions.
The objective of trend-related products iden-tification is to identify products in P that are relatedto trend e within the time span Te, denoted by PR.For convenience, we will not explicitly mention thetime span unless needed.To better understand the problem, we first presentan illustrative example in Table 1, which will be dis-cussed as the running case throughout the paper.
Inthis example, we can see that a few users tweet theirproduct needs related to the trend ?Air Pollution?.We take Taobao as the product database and presenta few related products in it.Table 1: An illustrative example for the studied task.Trend keywords: Air PollutionTweets:What bad air!
We need to buy masks ASAP!!
!I am planing to buy an air purifier.
Hoping it can defend air pollution.#air pollution I will recommend to keep some houseplants at home.Product database: Taobao2Related products: Mouth Mask, Air Purifier, Houseplant2The biggest C2C e-commerce site in China, similar to eBay.13383 Data and ObservationsAs discussed earlier, hot trends may exert positiveeffects on the sale of related products.
In this sec-tion, we will construct a deep analysis on this pointby presenting quantitative answers to the followingtwo problems:?
Q1: What is the proportion of hot trends thatpotentially lead to business opportunities, andhow is their impact on related products??
Q2: How is the associativity between relatedproducts?These findings are key and fundamental to developour models.3.1 Data CollectionTo perform the above analysis, the key is how to con-struct an experimental data collection which relateshot trends to corresponding related products.
Wejointly consider microblogs and e-commerce plat-forms: we obtain hot trends in microblogs and man-ually identify trend-related products in e-commercewebsites.
In this paper, we adopt Sina Weibo3as the microbloging platform and Taobao4 as thee-commerce platform, which are the biggest mi-croblogging service and the largest C2C company inChina respectively.
The analysis method is generaland can equally apply to other platforms.
For both t-wo data signals, we consider a two-month time span,i.e.
from May 2013 to June 2013.Trend detection.
Since trend detection is not ourfocus, we directly obtained trends from ?trendingtopics?
provided by the microblog platform.
Ourwork can be easily extended to incorporate a trenddetection component.
Similar to ?trending topic-s?
in Twitter, Sina Weibo provides a public list oftop searched keywords which can be obtained bythe Weibo search API5.
In the list, top 50 keyword-s are presented and ordered by the number of be-ing searched.
Weibo classifies these keywords in-to five categories: China, movie, business, personand sports.
We consider these keywords to be trendkeywords.
These keywords are dynamically updatedand we monitor the trend lists in the considered time3http://www.weibo.com/4http://www.taobao.com/5http://s.weibo.com/top/summaryspan.
We define the start and end time of a trend tobe the first day and the last day on the trend list re-spectively, which spans the active interval of a trend.We only keep the trend which has an active intervalwith more than one day.
For each trend, we use thetrend keywords to retrieve all related tweets in theactive interval, and use the pattern based method in(Hollerit et al 2013) to extract all mentioned prod-uct keywords.
We present a few example patternsused for extracting product keywords in Table 2.
Af-ter that we can obtain a set of product keywords foreach trend.Table 2: Example patterns for extracting product key-words.Patterns Example segments of tweets?
(buy) ?
?|?SLxI?bought father a Philips PT720 (Electric Razor).
?^(use) ?^N95??
?$?/use N95 (mouth mask) to reduce the impact of bad air? ?Galaxy S4(recommend) recommend Galaxy S4 (cell phone)Related product identification and annotation.For each trend, we have the product keyword set to-gether with the trend keywords as described above.We use these keywords to retrieve candidate prod-ucts in the product search engine of Taobao with-in the active interval of the trend.
For each can-didate product, we further crawl its product pageand obtain corresponding related products suggest-ed by Taobao, which are treated as candidate, too.We invite two senior post-graduate students majorin economics as human judges.
The judge is re-quired to make a binary decision whether a productis related to a trend by following a detailed guide-line compiled by a senior officer of an e-commercecompany in Beijing.
For each trend, we provide thetrend keywords, product keywords in tweets, relat-ed tweets, related news articles from China Daily6.Web access is available during the annotation pro-cess.
Due to space limit, we do not present the an-notation guideline here.
We use Cohen?s kappa tomeasure the agreement of these two judges, whichhas a high value of 0.75.
To speed up the work,we further group all products which have the samelowest categorial label (e.g., leaf label) 7, and we6http://www.chinadaily.com.cn7Taobao has provided a category tree for products:http://list.taobao.com/browse/cat-0.htm).1339will treat a group as a product in later experiments.We only keep the products with the same judgmentsand the trends with at least one related product.
Wepresent the statistics of data set in Table 3 8.
Sincecurrent e-commerce search engines mainly adop-t keyword matching based retrieval method, we fur-ther examine the performance of simply using trendkeywords as queries.
We compute the percentageof related/unrelated products with at least one trendkeyword in their description.
We can see that on-ly 29.7% related products can be found on average.These statistics indicate that more effective methodsare needed for the current task.Table 3: Statitics of the data set.# business-related trends 113average candidate products per trend 55.1average related products per trend 7.3average perc.
of rel.
prod.
with trend keywords 29.7%average perc.
of unrel.
prod.
with trend keywords 6.3%3.2 ObservationsNow we analyze the data collection and present ourobservations.A1: First of all, it is important to find out the pro-portion of hot trends that potentially leads to busi-ness opportunities.
Recall that each trend has a cat-egory label and possibly a set of related products i-dentified by the judges.
We refer to a trend withrelated products as a business-related trend.
Wepresent the statistics in Fig.
1.
We can see thatabout 36% of all trends have corresponding relat-ed products in Taobao, which indicates that thesetrends highly relate to business.
Movies and Sport-s have higher proportions of business-related trend-s, i.e.
81% and 52% respectively, while the othercategories have lower proportions but still with asubstantial number of business related trends.
It isnoteworthy that Business has the lowest proportion,the major reason is that trends in Business are usual-ly general events, i.e., the release of new economicpolicy, which do not directly correspond to relatedproducts.
As we discussed earlier, these trends mayhave indirect impact on product sales.
Currently,we only focus on direct impact, and indirect impactswill be considered in future work.8The data set can be downloaded at http://sewm.pku.edu.cn/?wjp.Next we continue to examine the impact of hottrends on the sale of related products.
We obtainproduct sales from Taobao product pages.
As we cansee in Fig.
2, the average sale of related products inall categories gradually increased with trends goingon.
Interestingly, we can see that categories Moviesand China achieved very significant increase.
Prod-ucts related to Movies trends are usually related tothe movie itself, e.g., movie tickets; while prod-ucts related to China tend to be commodities (e.g.,the mouth masks for the trend of ?Air Pollution?
)or trending products (e.g., Shenzhou-10 SpacecraftModel for the trend of ?the launch of Shenzhou-10?
).business person sports China movie# trends020406080100120140160% business-reatedtrends0%20%40%60%80%100%busi.-related trendsother trend% busi.-reated trendsFigure 1: The proportion and volume of business-relatedtrends in five categories.A2: Recall we have discussed that product asso-ciativity is useful for improving the coverage of re-lated products.
Here we would like to quantitativelyexamine the associativity between related productsgiven a trend.
For a trend, we first compute the av-erage pairwise similarity between related productsin terms of their descriptive texts (e.g.
title and de-scription).
Since there are more unrelated products,we randomly sample an equal number of unrelatedproducts from the candidate products we previouslygenerated.
Then we compute the average similaritybetween a related product and an unrelated product.We further average these values over all the trendsof each category.
The average similarity of related-related product pairs is 0.112, while the average sim-ilarities of unrelated-unrelated and related-unrelated1340Days0 1 2 3 4 5 6Growthrate ofsales volume1.001.021.041.061.081.101.121.141.161.18businesspersonsportsChinamovieFigure 2: An illustrative analysis of the impact on relatedproducts in five categories.
We measure the impact bycomputing the average growth ratio of sale in Taobao.product pairs are 0.039 and 0.058 respectively.9In summary, A1 indicates that a large proportionof hot trends are potentially related to products andwill exert positive effects on product sale; A2 in-dicates that there is a strong associativity betweenrelated products, which can be utilized to improveboth precision and recall of the algorithm.4 The Proposed MethodIn this section, we present a graph based ranking al-gorithm jointly models the relevance of a productand the associativity between products.
Recall thatwe have collected a set of product keywords and aset of candidate products for each trend.
Our aim isto re-rank these candidate products to obtain a betterranking of related products.
We adopt a biased ran-dom walk algorithm: 1) relevance is modeled as bi-ased restart probability and 2) associativity is mod-eled through random walk on the product graph.4.1 Modeling the Product RelevanceRecall that in Section 2 we use the pattern basedmethod to extract product keywords from tweets re-lated to a trend.
However, to stimulate the real sce-nario that we want to identify the related products atthe beginning of a trend, we only keep the keyword-s which were contained in tweets published in thefirst three days when a trend began.
These extracted9The difference was tested to be statistically significant.product keywords directly reveal users?
commercialintents on the trends.
Instead of modeling person-alized intents, we consider learning a unified trend-driven intent by representing the intent as a weightedvector over these product keywords.
And the key ishow to set the keyword weight.Keyword weighting.
A good weighting methodshould be able to leverage commercial interest-s/intents of users well and emphasize the keyword-s users really focus on.
Thus we consider makinguse of the retweeting (a.k.a.
forwarding) mechanis-m in microblogs.
Retweet links are shown to be bet-ter in revealing relevance and interests (Welch et al2011).
Formally, we use the following weightingformula for a keyword k:Weight(k) =?t?Cklog10 (#rtt + 1), (1)where Ck is the set of all originally-written tweets(i.e., not a retweet) that contain the keyword k inthe considered time span, and #rtt is the retweetnumber of a tweet t. We further normalize and buildthe weight vector over all the considered keywords,called as intent vector.
We denote the intent vectorof a trend e by ~e.Product relevance.
Having the intent vector, nowwe discuss about how to define the product rele-vance.
Given a product p, we extract all the words inthe title and description parts of a product.
We rep-resent it as a vector using the widely tf-idf weightingmethod.
We denote the weight vector of product pby ~p.
We measure the product relevance between eand p as rel(e, p) = ~e?~p|~e||~p| .4.2 Modeling the Associativity betweenProductsTo start this part, we first present an illustrative ex-ample in Fig.
3.
We can see there are four relat-ed products for the trend ?Air Pollution?.
We as-sume that only ?mouth mask?
was mentioned in mi-croblogs.
Now we expect to mine more related prod-ucts with ?mouth mask?
as a known related produc-t. We can compute the similarity between a pair ofproducts.
Intuitively, if the similarity between a can-didate product and ?mouth mask?
is higher than apredefined threshold, we can consider it to be relat-ed, too.
In this example, ?air detector?
and ?air pu-rifier?
are similar to ?mouth mask?
in terms of prod-1341Figure 3: An example to illustrate the importance of as-sociativity.
Products which were mentioned in tweets related to ?AirPollution?
are marked in red circles while the others are marked in bluecircles.
The link between products indicate the similarity between twoproducts.
Links with weights lower than a predefined threshold are notconsidered.
Although ?green plants?
is related to this trend, it was notmentioned in tweets and did not have a direct link to ?mouth mask?.uct descriptions and considered to be related, while?Green plants?
is determined to be unrelated sinceit has very little overlap words with ?mouth mask?in the description.
It indicates one-step similaritymethod is not able to fully capture the real associa-tivity between products.Thus, we propose to use the random walk methodto propagate the relatedness score on the produc-t graph.
Let P denote the number of all the can-didate products, and rP?1 denote the relatedness s-core vector where ri denote the relatedness score ofproduct pi.We first construct the product graph.
We repre-sent each candidate product as a vertex in the graphand built the link with the cosine similarity betweenthe descriptive texts of two products as the linkweight.10 We denote the similarity matrix byMP?Pand Mi,j denotes the similarity between products piand pj .
Formally, we formulate the problem in a s-tandard PageRank formr(n+1) = ?
?
r(n) ?M+ (1?
?)
?
y, (2)where y is the restart probability vector usuallyset to be uniform.
With this method, it is easy tosee that relatedness score can be propagated on theproduct graph, which better captures underlying as-sociativity between products.10Other similarity methods can be used, e.g., co-purse historyrecord.4.3 Jointly Modeling Relevance andAssociativityHaving discussed about how to model both rele-vance and associativity, now we are ready to presenta joint model to capture these two factors.
By fol-lowing (Zhao et al 2013), the main idea is that in-stead of using a uniform restart distribution y, weuse an relevance biased restart distribution in E-q.
2.
We set the restart probability of a produc-t to its corresponding relevance.
Formally, we setyi = rel(e, pi).
Let us further explain the idea.
Atthe beginning of each iteration, each product is firstassigned to its relevance score: the more relevant itis, the larger score it has.
During the iteration, eachproduct begins to collect relevance evidence from itsneighbors on the product graph: the more relevan-t neighbors it has, the larger score it obtains.
Andthe final score is indeed a trade-off between its ownrelevance score and neighboring relevance scores itreceives.
In order to obtain an ergodic walk, we adda small value, i.e.
1e ?
4, to each entry of y andthen normalize this vector.
We denote our algorithmas JMRA (Jointly Modeling Relevance and Associa-tivity).To have an intuitive understanding of our algo-rithm, let us turn to the example in Fig.
3 again.
Atthe beginning, only ?mouth mask?
has a large rele-vance score, with the iteration going on, the related-ness score will be propagated between products onthe graph.
Although ?green plants?
has not a directlink with ?mouth mask?, it can obtain relatedness s-core from its neighbors, i.e.
?air detector?
and ?airpurifier?.
JMRA is able to discover such latent asso-ciativity between products.5 Experimental SetupWe use the test collection which have been describedin Section 3.
The statistics of the data set is shownin Table 3.5.1 Evaluation MetricsFor a real product search engine, top results are par-ticularly important, thus we adopt precision@5 andprecision@10 as the evaluation metrics.
Similar toInformation Retrieval, we also consider using MeanAverage Precision (MAP) as metrics to measure theoverall quality of retrieved products.13425.2 Methods to CompareWe compare the following methods for inferring re-lating products:SALES: we rank the candidate products by theirhistorical sales volume descendingly.TREND: we use trend keywords as queries and rankthe products by their relevance.TREND+fb: based on TREND, we further incorpo-rate pseudo-relevance feedback (Salton, 1971;Salton and Buckley, 1997).
After some tun-ing (See Section 6.5), top 3 search results wereused to update the query.JMRAr: it is our method which only considersproduct relevance in Section 4.1.JMRAr + fb: we further apply pseudo-relevancefeedback to JMRAr.JMRAr+a: it is our method which considers bothrelevance and associativity in Section 4.3.JMRAr+a+fb: we further apply pseudo-relevancefeedback to JMRAr+a.6 Experimental Results and AnalysisIn this section, we first evaluate the performance ofthe proposed approach and the comparison method-s. Next, we analyze a problem in real e-commercesearch engines, i.e., the cold start.
Then, we givea qualitative case study to further demonstrate theeffectiveness of the proposed approach.
Finally,we examine the parameter sensitivity to the perfor-mance.6.1 Comparison of PerformanceWe present the results of various methods in Table4.
We first examine the performance of baselinesSALES, TREND and TREND+fb.
First, SALES hasthe worst performance due to the fact that a trendusually happen unexpectedly and historical recordsmay not predict it well.
The second observation isthat the improvement of TREND+fb over TREND islittle.
This is mainly because that very few relatedproducts can be identified only based on trend key-words so feedback method does not work very wellon it.Then we compare our relevance based method-s with the above three baselines.
Note that themajor difference between JMRAr and TREND isthat JMRAr makes uses of both trend keywordsand product keywords extracted from microblogs.We can see that JMRAr performs better than al-l three baselines.
It proves the effectiveness of lever-aging commercial intents from microblogs.
An-other interesting point is that the relative improve-ment JMRAr+fb over JMRAr is larger than thatTREND+fb over TREND.
The reason is that pseudorelevance feedback relies highly on top results and asystem with better search quality will benefit morefrom it.Finally, we consider evaluating our full modelswhich jointly consider relevance and associativity.
Itis easy to see JMRAr+a yields a significant improve-ment over JMRAr and even outperforms JMRAr+fb.This observation supports our assumption that prod-uct associativity is very important in this task.
A-gain, pseudo relevance feedback has also improvedJMRAr+a.In summary, our results have shown some impor-tant implications for trend-related product retrievalon e-commerce search engines: 1) microblogs arevery good signals to learn users?
commercial intents;2) product associativity is particularly important; 3)other advanced retrieval methods are potentially use-ful, e.g., pseudo relevance feedback.Table 4: The overall performance of all the methods.Models P@5 P@10 MAPSALES 0.345 0.379 0.225TREND 0.543 0.325 0.327TREND+fb 0.550 0.325 0.328JMRAr 0.611 0.527 0.336JMRAr+fb 0.661 0.552 0.348JMRAr+a 0.733 0.609 0.392JMRAr+a+fb 0.734 0.624 0.4046.2 Cold StartIt is noteworthy that we have considered all the can-didate products within the entire active interval of atrend when constructing the test collection.
This ismainly to obtain a good coverage of related product-s since some e-commerce companies might releasenew products as the response to a trend.
During theactive interval of a trend, the e-commerce companiesmay make some heuristic rules to enhance the re-trieval of related products, e.g., incorporating trendkeywords into product titles and descriptions.
In the1343real application scenario, an effective method is ex-pected to identify related products at the beginningof a trend when the e-commerce workers may notmake any response to the trend.
How would it beif we do not have the manually generated trend key-words from workers in product titles and descrip-tions?To answer the question, in this part, we contin-ue to examine the impact of cold start on differentmethods.
We select three methods as comparisons,i.e., TREND+fb, JMRAr + fb and JMRAr+a + fb.We first use keyword matching methods to obtainall the products that related to trend keywords.
Thedescriptive text (i.e., title and description) of theseproducts has been refined to match trend queries bysellers in e-commerce websites.
We further removedall the trend keywords in the desriptive text of theseproducts, and gradually add the trend keywords backto original products.
In such a process, we wouldlike to examine how cold start affects the perfor-mance of different methods.0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%P@100.00.10.20.30.40.50.60.7JMRAr + fbJMRAr+a + fbTREND + fbFigure 4: The impact of cold start for different meth-ods.We present the results in Fig.
4.
First, per-formance of all these methods improve with theincrease of products with trend keywords.
Sec-ond, cold start does not affect the relative perfor-mance order of different methods, i.e., TREND+fb< JMRAr + fb < JMRAr+a + fb.
Finally, all themethods display similar impact patterns: ?signifi-cantli increasing?
?
?stable?.
An interesting ob-servation is that JMRAr + fb and JMRAr+a + fbhave much more stable performance compared toTREND+fb.
It indicates that our methods are veryrobust to the cold start, and potentially applicable inreal e-commerce search engines.6.3 Case StudyIn order to have a intuitive understanding of howdifferent method perform, we present a case studyin this part.
We select JMRAr, JMRAr+fb andJMRAr+a+fb as comparisons.
The results are shownin Table 5.
We can see that JMRAr+a+fb have iden-tified the most related products.
We further analyzethe contribution of different factors.
Compared withJMRAr, JMRAr+fb has got one more related prod-uct ?Houseplant?
due to the reason pseudo feedbackcan make use of top related search results to im-prove the queries.
In this case, ?Houseplant?
is i-dentified to be related because it is very similar to?Air Detector?
(We have presented the correspond-ing most associative products in brackets in Table 5).Similarly, the comparison between JMRAr+fb andJMRAr+a+fb shows the effectiveness of product as-sociativity.6.4 Error AnalysisTo further understand the shortcomings of the pro-posed methods, we use the example in Table 5 for er-ror analysis.
Based on our manual inspection, errorsmay arise from two major sources for our method:?
Product keyword extraction errors: we usea pattern-based product keyword extractionmethod, and it tends to incorporate some irrel-evant words.
For example, given the topic ?airpollution?, users would talk about the impactof ?car exhaust?
on air quality and advocate toreduce automobile usage and sale.
The currentkeyword extraction method might mistake theword ?car?
for a product related keyword.?
Search engine retrieval errors: in this paper,we rely on the Taobao product search enginefor candidate product generation.
It is high-ly based on surface-form matching to retrieverelated products.
Therefore, given a query?mouth mask?, it might return some irrelevantproducts, e.g., ?party mask?.
Clearly, pseudo-relevance feedback will also bring additional ir-relevant products if top search results containirrelevant ones.1344Table 5: A qualitative comparison of three methods on the topic of ?Air Pollution?.
We mark related products in bold.Sample keywords learnt from microblogs:air pollution, mouth mask, air, air purifier, respirator, house, mask,warm, bus, car, purified waterJMRAr JMRAr+fb JMRAr+a+fbMouth Mask Mouth Mask Mouth MaskAir Detector Air Detector Air PurifierAir Purifier Air Purifier Air DetectorToy House Humidifier RespiratorRespirator Respirator Oxygen Bag (Mouth Mask)Toy Car Party Mask HumidifierEnvironment-friendly Bags Toy Car Houseplant (Air Detector)Humidifier Houseplant (Air Detector) Anti-pollution Medicine (Oxygen Bag)Purified Water Environment-friendly bags Purified WaterWarmer Purified Water Party Mask(a)0 2 4 6 8 10P@100.540.560.580.600.620.64 JMRAr + fbJMRAr+a + fb(b)Figure 5: Parameter sensitivity.
a) The impact of thedamping factor ?
and b) the impact of the number of topproducts used for pseudo feedback.To solve these problems, one promising way is toleverage more context information about the candi-date products and construct deep semantic analysis.We will leave it as future work.6.5 Parameter SensitivityThe only parameter for JMRA is the damping fac-tor in the random walk model, i.e., ?.
Intuitively,a larger value of ?
emphasize the associativity morewhile a smaller value emphasize the relevance more.We tune this parameter at a step of 0.1 and presentthe results in Fig.
5(a).
We can see the performanceof JMRAr+a+fb is consistently better than that ofJMRAr+fb and peaks at around ?0.8?.
It indicatesthe robustness of JMRAr+a+fb and the importanceof product associtivity.We further examine the impact of the num-ber of top products used for pseudo feedback forJMRAr+fb and JMRAr+a+fb.
In Fig.
5(b), we cansee that both JMRAr+a+fb and JMRAr+fb achievedtheir best at ?3?.
It indicates that we only need toconsider very top results for pseudo feedback.6.6 Title or Description?In previous experiments, for each product, we usedthe descriptive text in both title and description.
Inthis part, we consider examining the individual ef-fect of title and description.
We use JMRAr+a+fb asthe examined method since both relevance and asso-ciativity relies on the text information.Table 6: Evaluating the performance of JMRAr+a+fbwith different text sources.sources P@5 P@10 MAPtitle 0.690 0.591 0.364description 0.711 0.602 0.387title+description 0.734 0.624 0.404As shown in Table 6, we can see that the perfor-mance of only using description is better than thatof only using title and a combination of both partsachieve the best.
title is usually carefully compiledby e-commerce sellers, thus it reveals the most high-lights of the products but very short; while descrip-tion contains more informative text but tends to in-corporate noise.
In future work, we will consider amore principled way to combine title and descrip-tion, e.g., weighted combination.13456.7 EfficiencyFinally, we present a few discussions about the issueof efficiency.
All codes were implemented in Python2.7, and all experiments were performed on a PCwith Intel(R) Core(TM)i5 CPU 760 @ 2.8GHz and8GB memory.Sicne we group products by the categorial label,the number of candidate products is usually very s-mall.
Thus, our method JMRA runs very efficiently.Even on an extremely large set of candidate product-s, the iterative random walk algorithm can be easilyimplemented in a distributed way (Bahmani et al2011) and would have very good efficiency.7 Related WorkOur work is mainly related to the following lines:Mining the microblogs.
Microblogs have beenone of the most popular social networking platform-s, and they have recently attracted much attentionfrom research communities.
The studies on trend(or event) detection (Benson et al 2011; Weng andLee, 2011; Sakaki et al 2010; Zhao et al 2012)tried to make use of the rapid response of microblogsusers as the signal to automatically identify exter-nal events.
Another important aspect is the contentanalysis of tweets, including the recommendation ofreal-time topical news (Phelan et al 2009), senti-ment or opinions analysis (Meng et al 2012), eventsummarization using tweets (Chakrabarti and Puner-a, 2011; Lin et al 2012; Zhao et al 2013), etc.
Ourwork do not explicitly incorporate a trend detectioncomponent, instead we make use of the trending top-ics provided by the microblogs platforms.
It will beeasy to incorporate other trend detection methods asour input.Identifying online users?
commercial intents.The identification of online users?
commercial in-tents has been quite an important research prob-lem in the past.
Most researches focus on captur-ing commercial intention from search queries (Daiet al 2006; Strohmaier and Kro?ll, 2012), click-through behaviors (Ashkan and Clarke, 2009), user-s?
mouse movements or scrolling behaviors (Guoand Agichtein, 2010) and search logs (Strohmaierand Kro?ll, 2012).
The most related to our work isthe work in (Hollerit et al 2013), which attempts todetect commercial intent on twitter.
But we havevery different focus.
They aim to identify tweet-level commercial intents while ours aim to identifytrend-driven commercial intents.
In addition, we al-so present how to make use of these identified intentsand our paper focuses on how to identify trend relat-ed products for e-commerce companies to improveservice when faced with hot trends.8 ConclusionsIn this paper, we make the first attempt to identifytrend related products by leveraging commercial in-tents from microblogs.
We propose a way to con-struct the evaluation set for this task and presentsome insightful findings.
We propose a graph basedmethod to joint model relevance and associativity.We perform extensive experiments, including quan-titative and qualitative analysis.Currently, our approach is indeed a frameworkto solve this task, and we may consider improvingthe individual components in it, e.g.
consider non-product keywords in tweets.
For future work, wewill consider incorporating a trend detection com-ponent into our method, which can be more flexibleto adapt to various trend signals.
We can also refinethe method of the product keyword extraction by us-ing more principled solutions.AcknowledgmentsWe thank the anonymous reviewers for the construc-tive comments.
The work was partially supported byNSFC Grant 60933004, 61073082 and 61272340.Jinpeng Wang was supported by the Singapore Na-tional Research Foundation under its IDM FuturesFunding Initiative and administered by the Interac-tive & Digital Media Programme Office, Media De-velopment Authority.
We thank Taobao for the ac-cess to the product data and all Taobao data in thispaper will be only used for research purpose.ReferencesAzin Ashkan and Charles LA Clarke.
2009.
Term-based commercial intent analysis.
In Proceedingsof the 32nd international ACM SIGIR conference onResearch and development in information retrieval,pages 800?801.
ACM.Bahman Bahmani, Kaushik Chakrabarti, and Dong Xin.2011.
Fast personalized pagerank on mapreduce.
In1346Proceedings of the 2011 ACM SIGMOD Internation-al Conference on Management of data, SIGMOD ?11,pages 973?984, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.Edward Benson, Aria Haghighi, and Regina Barzilay.2011.
Event discovery in social media feeds.
In Pro-ceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics: Human LanguageTechnologies-Volume 1, pages 389?398.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Deepayan Chakrabarti and Kunal Punera.
2011.
Eventsummarization using tweets.
In Proceedings of the 5thInt?l AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media(ICWSM), July.Honghua Kathy Dai, Lingzhi Zhao, Zaiqing Nie, Ji-RongWen, Lee Wang, and Ying Li.
2006.
Detecting onlinecommercial intention (oci).
In Proceedings of the 15thinternational conference on World Wide Web, pages829?837.
ACM.Qi Guo and Eugene Agichtein.
2010.
Ready to buy orjust browsing?
: detecting web searcher goals from in-teraction data.
In Proceedings of the 33rd internation-al ACM SIGIR conference on Research and develop-ment in information retrieval, pages 130?137.
ACM.Bernd Hollerit, Mark Kro?ll, and Markus Strohmaier.2013.
Towards linking buyers and sellers: detect-ing commercial intent on twitter.
In Proceedings ofthe 22nd international conference on World Wide Webcompanion, pages 629?632.
International World WideWeb Conferences Steering Committee.Haewoon Kwak, Changhyun Lee, Hosung Park, and SueMoon.
2010.
What is Twitter, a social network or anews media?
In WWW ?10: Proceedings of the 19thinternational conference on World wide web, pages591?600.
ACM.Jure Leskovec, Lars Backstrom, and Jon Kleinberg.2009.
Meme-tracking and the dynamics of the newscycle.
In Proceedings of the 15th ACM SIGKDD inter-national conference on Knowledge discovery and datamining, KDD ?09, pages 497?506, New York, NY, US-A.
ACM.Chen Lin, Chun Lin, Jingxuan Li, Dingding Wang, YangChen, and Tao Li.
2012.
Generating event storylinesfrom microblogs.
In Proceedings of the 21st ACM in-ternational conference on Information and knowledgemanagement, pages 175?184.
ACM.Xinfan Meng, Furu Wei, Xiaohua Liu, Ming Zhou, SujianLi, and Houfeng Wang.
2012.
Entity-centric topic-oriented opinion summarization in twitter.
In Proceed-ings of the 18th ACM SIGKDD international confer-ence on Knowledge discovery and data mining, pages379?387.
ACM.Owen Phelan, Kevin McCarthy, and Barry Smyth.
2009.Using twitter to recommend real-time topical news.
InProceedings of the third ACM conference on Recom-mender systems, pages 385?388.
ACM.Takeshi Sakaki, Makoto Okazaki, and Yutaka Matsuo.2010.
Earthquake shakes twitter users: real-time eventdetection by social sensors.
In Proceedings of the 19thinternational conference on World wide web, WWW?10, pages 851?860, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.Gerard Salton and Chris Buckley.
1997.
Readings ininformation retrieval.
chapter Improving retrieval per-formance by relevance feedback, pages 355?364.
Mor-gan Kaufmann Publishers Inc., San Francisco, CA,USA.Gerard Salton, editor.
1971.
The SMART Retrieval Sys-tem - Experiments in Automatic Document Processing.Prentice Hall, Englewood, Cliffs, New Jersey.Markus Strohmaier and Mark Kro?ll.
2012.
Acquiringknowledge about human goals from search query logs.Information Processing & Management, 48(1):63?82.Michael J. Welch, Uri Schonfeld, Dan He, and JunghooCho.
2011.
Topical semantics of twitter links.
In Pro-ceedings of the fourth ACM international conferenceon Web search and data mining, WSDM ?11, pages327?336, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.Jianshu Weng and Bu-Sung Lee.
2011.
Event detectionin Twitter.
In Proceedings of the Fifth InternationalConference on Weblogs and Social Media (ICWSM),Menlo Park, CA, USA.
AAAI.Wayne Xin Zhao, Baihan Shu, Jing Jiang, Yang Song,Hongfei Yan, and Xiaoming Li.
2012.
Identifyingevent-related bursts via social media activities.
InEMNLP-CoNLL, pages 1466?1477.Wayne Xin Zhao, Yanwei Guo, Rui Yan, Yulan He, andXiaoming Li.
2013.
Timeline generation with so-cial attention.
In Proceedings of the 36th internationalACM SIGIR conference on Research and developmentin information retrieval, SIGIR ?13, pages 1061?1064.1347
