Proceedings of the 2013 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 1022?1031,Seattle, Washington, USA, 18-21 October 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsAssembling the Kazakh Language CorpusOlzhas Makhambetov, Aibek Makazhanov, Zhandos Yessenbayev,Bakhyt Matkarimov, Islam Sabyrgaliyev, and Anuar SharafudinovNazarbayev UniversityResearch and Innovation System53 Kabanbay batyr ave., Astana, Kazakhstan{omakhambetov, aibek.makazhanov, zhyessenbayev, bmatkarimov,islam.sabyrgaliyev, anuar.sharaphudinov}@nu.edu.kzAbstractThis paper presents the Kazakh Language Corpus(KLC), which is one of the first attempts madewithin a local research community to assemble aKazakh corpus.
KLC is designed to be a large scalecorpus containing over 135 million words and con-veying five stylistic genres: literary, publicistic, of-ficial, scientific and informal.
Along with its pri-mary part KLC comprises such parts as: (i) anno-tated sub-corpus, containing segmented documentsencoded in the eXtensible Markup Language (XML)that marks complete morphological, syntactic, andstructural characteristics of texts; (ii) as well as asub-corpus with the annotated speech data.
KLC hasa web-based corpus management system that helpsto navigate the data and retrieve necessary informa-tion.
KLC is also open for contributors, who arewilling to make suggestions, donate texts and helpwith annotation of existing materials.1 IntroductionThis article describes theoretical and practical issues ex-perienced during the construction of the Kazakh Lan-guage Corpus.
Kazakh is an agglutinative and highly in-flected language which belongs to the Turkic group.
It isofficial state language of Kazakhstan and a mother tonguefor more than 10 million people all around the world.However, up until the early 90?s of 20th century, due tohistorical reasons of the Soviet era, Russian language wasthe predominant language in spoken and written commu-nication in Kazakhstan.
This fact in turn caused the prob-lem of underrepresentation of Kazakh language in var-ious fields such as science, entertainment, official doc-umentation, etc.
For this reason, while assembling thecorpus, we had to group categories that are generally pre-sented as separate in other corpora into five stylistic gen-res.
Also, in contrast to other corpora (Aksan et al 2012;Chen, 1996), we included texts as they were available,i.e we did not try to fill a predefined set of categories.Substantial part of materials was collected using source-customized web crawlers and donated texts.KLC also contains a manually annotated sub-corpuswith morpho-syntactic and structural markups encodedin XML following general notions outlined in CES (Ide,1998).
Our syntactic tagset comprises a set of syntacticcategories well-defined in a classical Kazakh grammar,and the part of speech (POS) tagset is based on a posi-tional system in which the tags are formed by concatena-tion of POS of a word form and a chain of encoded lin-guistic properties, such as number, case, voice etc.
Theannotations have been carried out manually by philologystudents specializing in morphology and syntax.
Tryingto make the annotation process as comfortable as possi-ble, we have designed a web-based annotation tool witha user-friendly interface.
We took a great care for the an-notation quality, and to do that we (i) arranged the valida-tion process, and (ii) equipped the tool with a recommen-dation system that, as we will show, improves the inter-annotator agreement.As a part of KLC we have also compiled the annotatedread-speech corpus (RSC), which includes audio record-ings of words, phrases, sentences (from all genres), newsarticles and excerpts from books, that were carefully cho-sen from the primary part of the corpus.
All text materialswere read by volunteers who represented different age,gender, region and education backgrounds in a balancedway.
Each audio file is accompanied with a label file anda corresponding text transcript.
Moreover, some of thetranscripts have been grammatically annotated, i.e.
in ad-dition to a word-level segmentation of audio informationa portion of our data has lexical, and morpho-syntacticannotations.
In total RSC contains 10GB or more than 40hours of speech.This paper is organized as follows.
Section 2 reviewsthe existing work.
Section 3 provides detailed informa-tion about the primary corpus.
Sections 4 and 5 thor-oughly describe annotated text and speech sub-corporarespectively.
Finally, we draw conclusions and discussfuture work in Section 6.10222 Related WorkSince the pioneering corpus of Brown University wascompleted in 1964 by Francis and Kuc?era (1979), cor-pus linguistics has become a thriving research field.
Overthe past two decades researchers all around the worldreleased many corpora, including well known BritishNational Corpus (BNC) (Burnard, 2007) developed be-tween 1991 and 1994, and containing more than 100million words of written and spoken language from awide range of sources (Ide and Macleod, 2001; Al-Sulaitiand Atwell, 2006).
All materials were selected on a ba-sis of three independent criteria (medium, domain andtime), where each criterion had predefined target propor-tions.
The spoken part (remaining 10%) consists of or-thographic transcriptions of unscripted informal conver-sations and spoken language collected in different con-texts.
BNC is tagged for part of speech (POS) usingthe CLAWS4 (Constituent Likelihood Automatic Word-tagging System) (Leech et al 1994) tagging system de-veloped at Lancaster University.
BNC is generally ac-cepted as a balanced corpus, and many researchers, suchas the creators of Turkish National Corpus (Aksan et al2012), Korean National Corpus (Kim, 2006) etc., adoptedit as a model for compiling their own corpora.The Russian National Corpus (RNC) has been re-leased by the group of specialists from different organi-zations led by the Institute of Russian language, RussianAcademy of Sciences (Ruscorpora, 2003).
The corpuscovers primarily a period from the middle of the XVIIIto the early XXI centuries.
It includes both written texts(fiction, memoirs, science, religious literature and others)and recorded spoken data (public speeches and privateconversations).
Currently RNC contains over 350 mil-lion word forms that are automatically POS-tagged andlemmatized.
The corpus also includes semantic tags forwords and texts (Apresjan et al 2006).
Along with itsmain part, RNC contains such subcorpora as: DeeplyAnnotated Corpus, that contains sentences with a com-plete morphological and syntax structure markup, wherethe syntax structure is largely based on the Meaning-Text Theory introduced by Aleksandr Z?olkovskij andIgor Mel?c?uk; English ?
Russian, German ?
Russian,Ukrainian ?
Russian, Belorussian ?
Russian parallel cor-pora; Dialect corpus; Poetry corpus and others.Unfortunately, up until now, not too much work hasbeen accomplished in developing a corpus that will rep-resent Kazakh language.
To the best of our knowledgethere has been a limited number of attempts to compileone, but resulting corpora are too small in size and scope,or not available to the public.
A Kazakh corpus has beeninitiated by the Committee on Languages of the Ministryof Culture of the Republic of Kazakhstan (CLMCRK,2009).
This corpus is small in size and not annotated, as itremains in its very early stage of development.
The newsub-corpus for Kazakh has been recently built by Baisa etal.
as a part of larger corpus of Turkic languages (Baisaand Suchomel, 2012).
This corpus was compiled usinga web crawler that selected texts based on a languagemodel trained on Wikipedia texts.
Although the obtainedcorpus is relatively large in size, the data was not cate-gorized by genres.
Also, since a crawler was not source-customized, the corpus may contain some noise comingin the form of text in Russian or other languages.
We alsocould not find enough information about a Kazakh corpusthat has been developed at Xinjiang University and usedin their research (Altenbek and Xiao-long, 2010).
The ab-sence of an available corpus that will be large enough torepresent Kazakh language decelerates many research ac-tivities (Mukan, 2012).
We believe that building an openKazakh corpus will have a significant impact and it willbe very useful tool in the analysis of Kazakh.3 KLC Primary CorpusKLC is one of the first attempts to build a large scale,general purpose corpus that represents the present stateof Kazakh language.
Currently, the size of the primarycorpus is more than 135 million words and it containsapproximately more than 400 000 documents classifiedby genres into the following five sections: (1) literarysection contains Kazakh literary texts that were pub-lished in the range from the beginning of the XX cen-tury till present; (2) official section includes mainly of-ficial statutes, orders, acts and other materials producedby the governmental organizations within the period of2009-2012; (3) scientific section includes books, researchmonographs, dissertations, articles and essays from vari-ous fields (informatics, biology, chemistry, etc.
); (4) pub-licistic section contains periodicals and articles from on-line sources, i.e.
newspapers and magazines publishedover the last ten years; (5) informal language section in-cludes documents with colloquial Kazakh texts extractedfrom the popular blog platforms starting from 2009.
Wehave to note that while compiling this corpus we inten-tionally relaxed the document selection criteria by not re-stricting the collected data to particular domains, media,and time.
This was mainly dictated by the lack of ma-terials, and partially due to the reasons mentioned in theintroduction.Our main sources of data were Internet websites aswell as digitized forms of books, dissertations and arti-cles from public and personal libraries.
For each websitewe designed a source-specific crawler, thereby increas-ing the precision of the meta data (e.g.
authors, newscategories, etc.)
extraction.
Additionally, we filtered outdocuments with a high consistency of Russian texts byaligning them to a language model trained on pure Rus-sian texts.
We also filtered out all documents with the size1023Genre # docs # all words # unique wordsLiterary 8 255 7 733 456 423 445Publicistic 404 884 79 302 154 951 659Official 25 302 44 670 856 335 264Scientific 527 2 227 878 153 877Informal 6 110 1 337 953 162 074TOTAL 445 078 135 272 297 1 365 202Table 1: A quantitative description of the corpus.less than 1kB.
It took about 7 months to grow the corpusto its current size.
Table 1 provides a general quantitativedescription of the corpus.We release the data under a license that in accordancewith Kazakhstan?s law allows distribution of some ma-terials in whole (official documents, news articles) andsome only in part (literature, scientific texts, analytics)provided that sources are properly cited.
This licensedoes not allow printed or electronic publications or simi-lar use of substantial portions of text drawn from the cor-pus without the permission of its original publisher(s) orcopyright holder(s).3.1 Text Documents DescriptionEach document is stored in a plain text format in the UTF-8 encoding.
Documents contain both the content and themeta-data in a single file, and have the following simplestructure:?
TITLE ?
the title of a document;?
SOURCE ?
the source of a document?
AUTHOR ?
the author(s) of a document;?
DATE ?
the date when a document was published;?
META ?
additional information;?
TEXT ?
the content of a document.Provided that the corresponding information is presentin a source, the <META> tag contains both the name ofthe section of the corpus to which a document belongsand a further categorical sub-division, such as the type ofa literary work, e.g.
a poem.
That is, whenever possi-ble such categories are assigned automatically, e.g.
somewebsites provide this information.
For sources that lackmeta data, such as the digitized books, dissertations andscientific papers, the corresponding categories (informat-ics, biology, chemistry, etc.)
are assigned manually.3.2 Writing System of Kazakh languageKazakh adopts different writing systems depending onthe regions where it is spoken (Cyrillic alphabet in Kaza-khstan, Arabic and Latin graphics in other countries).Recently the government of Kazakhstan has decided toadopt Kazakh alphabet to a Latin graphic.
In this regardwe believe that KLC could become a valuable tool.
In-documents, total 1213documents, % 0.3all words, total 613 511all words, % 0.4unique words, total 80 368unique words, % 5.9lemmata, total 42 901Table 2: A quantitative description of the annotated datadeed, we have already provided a group working on thisproblem with statistical information about letter distribu-tions in Kazakh texts.
This information could also aidin designing various speech corpora as well as a properKazakh keyboard layout.
It can be stated that the latterwas done rather carelessly just as a simple adjustment toa Russian keyboard (Wikipedia, 2012).
Current KazakhCyrillic alphabet consists of 42 letters, whereas 9 of themare pure Kazakh letters and the others adopt the Russiansymbolic.
Figure 1 shows the distribution of Kazakh let-ters in the corpus.
It can be seen that there is a smallnon-zero distribution of pure Russian letters (underlined).This can be explained by the ineluctable use of Russianwords due to the lack of a proper translation or inheri-tance of Russian vocabulary.4 The Annotated Sub-corpusIn order to enhance the effectiveness of the corpus as aresearch tool, we have annotated a portion of the datafor syntactic and POS tags, lemmata, and for morphemetypes and boundaries.
Table 2 provides net amount andthe percentages (with respect to the current size of thecorpus) of the annotated data in terms of documents,words, unique words, and lemmata.The annotation process has been carried out com-pletely manually.
We favored a manual annotation overa semi-automatic one, for the following two reasons:(i) finding language independent tools (not to mentionKazakh-specific) which support a fine grained level ofannotation that we employ turned out to be rather chal-lenging; (ii) though we refused and partially could not af-ford a semi-automatic annotation we provided the anno-tators with a semi-automatic-like annotation experienceby equipping our annotation tool with a fairly advancedrecommendation system.
The annotation was performedmainly by the undergraduate students majoring in Kazakhphilology.
As a quality control measure, two validators (agraduate student majoring in Kazakh philology and oneof the authors) were assigned to check a random sam-ple of about 10% of the annotated data.
Validators didnot just fix errors, we also held regular ?work-through-errors?
sessions in an attempt to synchronize annotations.Our analysis of validated data suggest that the annotation1024Figure 1: The distribution of letters across the corpus, in %.Tag Description PTBequivalentsS Simple declarative clause SBSS Independent clause SBGS Dependent clause SBAR(Q)BAS Subject NPBND Predicate VPTOL Object (WH)NPANT Modifier ADJPPYS Adverbial (WH)ADVP(WH)PPX Void, unknown, uncertain XTable 3: The syntactic tagset descriptionquality was fairly high, as roughly only 6% of annotatedtokens were fixed.To the best of our knowledge this is the first attemptto annotate Kazakh texts with various linguistic markups.Given this, in the following subsections we would like todescribe the tagsets (syntactic and POS), the annotationscheme (the format in which the annotated data is storedand distributed), and the annotation tool itself.4.1 Designing the TagsetsThe syntactic tagset.
At the initial stage of the corpusdevelopment we did not plan to build a detailed treebank,leaving this task for the future work.
Therefore, our syn-tactic tagset comprises a compact set of syntactic cate-gories well-defined in a classical grammar.
Table 3 con-tains the tagset description along with the equivalent tagsdefined in a widely used Penn Treebank (Marcus et al1993) tagset1.
In addition to that, we also label prover-bials which are rather common elements of Kazakh lan-guage.
We do not treat them as a separate syntactic cat-1For ease of presentation we used bracketing instead of listing, i.e.SBAR(Q) should be read as SBARQ, SBAR; (WH)NP as WHNP, NP;etc.# Linguistic property Code Cardinality1 Animacy A 22 Number N 23 Possessiveness S 104 Person P 85 Case C 76 Negation G 27 Tense T 38 Mood M 49 Voice V 5Table 4: Linguistic properties considered in the POS tagset de-signegory, for they typically serve as a single syntactic unit(e.g.
predicate, adverbial, clause, etc.)
Instead each syn-tactic tag has a corresponding binary property that marksthe proverbial case.The POS tagset.
Kazakh is an agglutinative Turkiclanguage, in which word forms are generated by meansof the affix inflection.
Different affix types mark differentlinguistic properties.
For instance, consider a translationof a simple Kazakh sentence:Mektepke bardym.
- school.Dat go.Past.1sg - I went toschool.In this example pronoun ?I?
and preposition ?to?
are?hidden?
in the affixes of case and person, i.e.
:Mektep(NN = a school) + ke (dative case = to school)bar(VB, imperative = go) + dy (past tense = he/shewent) + m (1st person = I went)As the example shows, inflected affix chains containimportant information that is not always present in thecontext, hence a tagset should be designed in a way tocapture this information to the extent possible.
For thisreason, we design a positional tagset (Oflazer et al 2003;Hajic?
and Hladka?, 1998; Hana and Feldman, 2010), inwhich the final tags are constructed by the concatenationof the basic tag (often POS of a word form) and the en-1025# Tag Description LPs Cap.
# Tag Description LPs Cap.Noun: Pronoun:1 ZEP non-personal ANSPC 314 20 SIMZ personal3 NSPC 2292 ZEQ personal ANSPC 314 21 SIMU demonstrative NSPC 157Verb: 22 SIMS interrogative NSPC 1573 ET regular GTMVP 840 23 SIMD reflexive NSPC 1574 ETU infinitive GSC 196 24 SIMB indefinite NSPC 1575 ETK auxiliary P 8 25 SIMY indefinite, negative NSPC 1576 ETB auxiliary, negative P 8 26 SIMP indefinite, universal NSPC 1577 KEL auxiliary, desiderative GT 6 Adposition:8 ESM present participle GNSPC 314 27 KOM auxiliary nominal C 79 KSE past participle G 2 28 SHS preposition - 1Adjective: 29 SHZ conjunction - 110 SE regular P 8 30 SHD particle - 111 SES comparative P 8 Interjection:12 SEA superlative P 8 31 OSP vocative - 1Numeral: 32 OSQ thought - 113 SN cardinal NSPC 157 33 OSO emotion - 114 SNR ordinal NSPC 15715 SNZ collective NSPC 157 34 ELK Onomatopoeia - 116 SNB fraction NSPC 157 35 MOD Modal word - 1Adverb:17 US regular - 1 36 BOS foreign word - 118 USS comparative - 119 USA superlative - 1 Total capacity: - 3844Table 5: The POS tagset descriptioncoded chains of linguistic properties (LPs).
Table 4 con-tains main LPs defined in Kazakh grammar along withtheir codes and cardinalities, i.e.
a number of values theyaccept.
Although integrating a rich set of LPs may con-siderably enlarge the size of a tagset, we tried to con-sider as many LPs as possible for the following two rea-sons: (i) previous research shows that increasing the sizeof a tagset does not necessarily decrease the tagging ac-curacy (Elworthy, 1995) and that for agglutinative lan-guages omitting grammatical aspects may hurt the accu-racy of n-gram tagging (Feldman, 2008); (ii) it is easierto reduce a detailed tagset than to re-annotate data for themissed information.
Table 5 provides a detailed descrip-tion of the designed tagset (not including punctuation)both qualitatively and quantitatively.
The table contains alist of tags grouped by the ten major POS (in bold).
Foreach tag we provide a set of LPs it accepts and generativecapacities, i.e.
the upper bound on a number of possibletags that can be generated from a given basic tag and thedifferent combinations of the corresponding LPs2.
The2The multiplication of cardinalities of LPs does not always give theexact number of possible tags, for there are rules that restrict certaincombinations of LPs.
Moreover, some LP combinations may be techni-cally valid but semantically incorrect as they would make no sense, e.g.bala + m + myn - I am a son of my son.
Where possible we tried toaccount for such exceptions, checking the combinations and providinglist of 36 basic tags was compiled following the best prac-tices of Penn tagset design (Marcus et al 1993), andbearing in mind the specifics of Kazakh grammar.
Par-ticularly, we broke down the major POS categories insub-categories, in order to capture semantic distinctionsand various usage patterns.
For instance, negative (tag#6) and desiderative (tag #7) auxiliary verbs in conjunc-tion with main verbs are used to mark uninflected nega-tion (via no and not) and desiderative mood construction(via usage of to come in the meaning of to want) respec-tively.
Similarly, auxiliary nominals (tag #27) are usedas prepositional phrases such as, in front of, at the top of,etc.
Also, apart from the ordinal and cardinal numeralswe distinguish collectives (tag #15), that are used to em-phasize completeness of quantities as in both, all three,etc.
; and fractions (tag #16) as in half, quarter, etc.
Fi-nally, following classical Kazakh grammar, we treat ono-matopoeias (tag #34), i.e.
sound imitations as in tic-tacor knock-knock, as a distinct part of speech.The maximum size of the tagset equals to the total gen-erative capacity, or 3844 tags.
However, depending on theexact numbers.3Unlike any other part of speech that accepts the NSPC LP chain andmust be in the third person (singular or plural) to be in any case otherthan nominative, personal pronouns can be in any case for any person,thus having a larger capacity.1026morpheme?
token direct speech?
sentencetoken?
syntactic unit sentence?
direct speechsyntactic unit?
sentence list item?
sentencesentence?
paragraph sentence?
list itemparagraph?
chapter dialog?
sentencechapter?
document sentence?
dialogFigure 2: Structural markup hierarchylevel of granularity required for an application, some oreven all LPs may be dropped or added back in, providingadditional flexibility.
Even the minimal tagset of 36 basictags can be further reduced to a universal tagset (Petrovet al 2011) that consists of 11 tags, with the first sevenmajor POS groups being mapped to their direct equiv-alents, and the latter four (Interjection through Foreignword) being mapped to the catch all category.Lastly, given the designed tagset the aforementionedKazakh sentence can be tagged as follows:Mektepke/ZEP A0N0S0P3C3 (ZEP - non-personalnoun; A0 - inanimate; N0 - singular; S0 - nopossessor; P3 - 3rd person; C3 - dative case)bardym/ET G0T3M1V0P1 (ET - regular verb; G0 - notnegated; T3 - past tense; M1 - indicative mood; V0 - ac-tive voice; P1 - 1st person) ./.4.2 The Annotation SchemeWe have developed an XML-based annotation schemethat follows paradigms of the CES (Ide, 1998) and isconvertible into the XCES standard (Ide et al 2000).The main difference with the latter is that in our schemethe raw text and all markup types (i.e.
lexical, syntac-tic and structural annotation; cf.
Section 4) are stored ina single document.
For the morpho-lexical and syntac-tic markups we have corresponding tags, i.e.
<TOK> -token and <SU> - syntactic unit, respectively.
Main lin-guistic characteristics, such as POS, lemmata, morphemesegmentation and syntactic labels are marked through thecorresponding sub-tags and properties.
All the afore-mentioned tags have their place in the global hierarchyof the structural markup.
In turn, this hierarchy is in-tegrated into the structure of an XML document itself.Figure 2 shows the schematic representation of the devel-oped structural markup.
A statement A ?
B represents?A is contained by B?
relation.4.3 The Annotation ToolTo ease the process of annotation we have developed aspecial tool that was designed as a web application witha logging and a document management system.
The toolallows for (auto)saving current work and reviewing andrevising the already annotated documents.Functionality-wise the tool consists of the followingthree modules: (1) the syntactic module is designedBefore Afterinter-annotator agreement 0.81 0.84average MAE 0.08 0.07average speed, words/hour 212.1 322.6Table 6: Various characteristics of the annotation process beforeand after introducing the recommendation systemto parse sentences using the syntactic tagset describedin subsection 4.1, and to simultaneously mark sentenceboundaries; (2) the morpho-lexical module is designed toperform a morphological analysis, and to comprise suchfunctionalities as morpheme segmentation, POS taggingand lemma identification; (3) finally, the structural mod-ule is designed to mark up the logical structure of a docu-ment, i.e.
paragraphs, dialogues, direct speech, lists, etc.Annotation of a given document is performed in the orderin which we described the modules.
The decision on suchan order, as many other major design decisions, was madeaccounting for the annotators?
feedback, suggestions andrequests, thus making the annotation experience as con-venient as possible.
The validators have almost identicalinterface with additional functionality, such as a quicklook up and correction of word-level (morphology) andsentence-level (syntax) markups.
Also, both the valida-tors and the annotators have means to correct orthographyand punctuation.
However, the originals of each and ev-ery annotated document are kept.
In fact we have alreadycollected data on misspellings to use in our ongoing re-search in spelling correction.We have also developed a recommendation system formorphological analysis based on the already annotateddata.
For a given word or a given morpheme, the systemgenerates a list of recommended markups ordered by thedecreasing frequency of the previous usage.
While thisapproach arguably has a potential to propagate errors, ourexperiments suggest the opposite.
We have measured theinter-annotator agreement, average mean absolute error(MAE), and the annotation speed with and without therecommendation system.
All measurements were takenfor five annotators, who had been working with the toolfor two weeks.
For the experiments the annotators weregiven a randomly chosen news article containing about300 words.
The agreement was calculated using Fleiss?kappa (Fleiss and others, 1971).
The average MAE wascalculated as?MAE =1|A|?a?AW ?
CaWwhere A is a set of annotators, W is a number of words ina test document, and Ca is a number of words correctlyannotated by the annotator a.
The golden truth annota-tion was provided by the validators.
The comparison ofthe measurements is given in Table 6.
As we can see1027Age group I II III IVRegion F1 M1 F2 M2 F3 M3 F4 M4 Sum1 3 3 2 1 2 1 2 1 152 2 3 2 1 2 1 113 1 1 2 3 2 1 1 114 3 2 1 1 75 2 2 2 1 2 2 2 1 146 2 2 2 2 2 1 2 137 2 2 1 2 2 2 1 128 2 1 1 2 1 1 2 1 119 3 2 2 1 3 1 1 1 1410 1 1 2 2 1 1 2 1 1111 2 1 2 1 1 2 912 2 2 2 2 1 2 1 1213 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1114 2 1 1 1 1 2 1 2 1115 1 3 1 2 7Total 30 28 23 20 22 12 21 13 169Age group, % 35% 25% 20% 20%Table 7: The distribution of the speakers.the inter-annotator agreement improves with the incorpo-ration of the recommendations, while, in contrast to theerror propagation assumption, the error rate slightly de-creases.
Moreover, we get more than 100 words/hour in-crease in the labeling speed.
Thus, we conclude that aslong as the quality of the already annotated data is high,the recommendation system will help to produce qualityannotations at a higher speed.
One can argue that we useda rather small sample of data to evaluate our recommen-dation system.
However, we drew conclusions not onlyfrom the experimental results but also from opinions ofvalidators, who confirmed that they noticed that after in-tegrating the recommendation system annotations grewmore coherent and synchronized.Finally, let us provide a brief technical descrip-tion of the tool.
The design and structure ofthe front end is based on HTML5 and CSS3.We also use JQuery for HTML elements manipu-lation and various event handling.
The tool canbe tried out at http://kazcorpus.kz/klcweb/annotated/#annotsample, and the detailed infor-mation about it can be found at http://kazcorpus.kz/klcweb/annotated/#annotdemo.5 Read Speech CorpusMost of the modern speech processing systems require alarge amount of audio and text data for training acousticand language models.
Depending on the type of an appli-cation required data varies from high quality microphoneread speech (Garofalo et al 2007) to conversational tele-phone speech (Godfrey and Holliman, 1997; Canavanand Zipperlen, 1996), from continuous speech (Garo-folo et al 1993) to connected (Leonard and Doddington,1993) and isolated words (Pitrelli et al 1995).
In our cur-rent work, we collected a corpus of more than 40 hours ofhigh quality microphone read Kazakh speech of 169 na-tive speakers for the large vocabulary continuous speechrecognition tasks.5.1 Text MaterialsThe text materials to be uttered were carefully selectedfrom the primary section of the corpus and divided intotwo parts: sentences and stories.
The ?sentences?
parthas more than 12 000 different sentences randomly andequally extracted from all of the five genre specific sec-tions of the corpus.
The sentences are chosen so that intotal they contain more than 120 000 words which be-long to the set of the most frequent words that cover the95% of all the texts in the corpus.
Additionally, the sen-tences were grouped according to their length in words.Thus, we have ten groups of sentences, so that the firstgroup contains the sentences of length six, the second ?of length seven, and so on up until the length of 15.The ?stories?
part contains short online news extractedfrom publicistic genre section of the corpus.
Each storyconsists of up to 300 words.
All the materials weresubdivided into non-intersecting sets of texts and dis-tributed among the speakers in the following manner.Each speaker was assigned exactly 75 sentences and onestory.
Of the 75 sentences 50 belonged to the first five1028?short-sentenced?
groups (10 sentences per each group),and the remaining 25 belonged to the last five ?long-sentenced?
groups (5 sentences per each group).5.2 SpeakersThe main criteria of a speaker selection were the follow-ing: a region where (s)he learned Kazakh or spent most ofhis/her life; age; gender; and the ability to read Kazakh.The first criterion helped us to capture various accentsattributed to speakers?
settlement both local and exter-nal.
From the regional perspective we divide the speakersinto 15 groups: 14 domestic (one per each administra-tive region, i.e.
?oblast?, of Kazakhstan) and one abroad(all foreign countries).
Furthermore, the speakers are di-vided into the following four age groups (not includingchildren and school students): (i) 18-27 years, (ii) 28-37years, (iii) 38-47 years, (iv) 48 years and above.
We didnot strictly balance the speakers by their gender due tothe difficulties in finding the volunteers, but still tried tochoose no more than three speakers of the same genderper one age-regional group.
A female-to-male distribu-tion of speakers is 57% to 43%, respectively.The other important criterion is the ability to readKazakh, since not all of the interviewees could read inKazakh sufficiently fluent, which is a common issue in abilingual country such as Kazakhstan.
Additionally, wekept a record of the speakers?
education, i.e.
whether theyattended and graduated from a university, or graduatedfrom a school or a college without attending any univer-sities.The speakers were encoded using the fol-lowing scheme: <Region><Gender><Year ofbirth><Initials><Education>, where ?Region?
holdsthe values in the range of [1-15], ?Gender?
?
F or M,?Year of birth?
?
the last two digits of a year of birth,?Initials?
?
initials of a name followed by a surname,?Education?
?
1 for school, 2 for college, and 3 foruniversity, e.g.
06F70ZK3.In total, we have recorded 169 speakers.
Table 7presents a distribution of the speakers across the age,gender and regional groups.
The blank spots show thespeaker profiles that we could not recruit.
Mostly, thesecases correspond to the distant regions and elder malegroups.5.3 Recording SetupThe actual recording sessions took place in a sound-proofstudio of the university with the assistance of a soundoperator.
Before the recordings, the speakers were in-structed, documented and given some time to prepare, aswell as asked to fill in the copyright transfer form for theaudio data with their voice.
They were not constrainedon the manner, speed or time except for the correctnessof reading.
The average time for a recording sessionFigure 3: ASCII version of the Kazakh letters.per speaker was about 40-45 minutes, though there werecases that lasted for two hours.
Audio data was capturedusing a professional vocal microphone Neumann TLM49 and digitized by LEXICON I-ONIX U82S sound card.The format of the recorded audio files is 44.1 kHz 16-bitPCM-encoded mono WAVE file format.
All the recordedaudio files were manually post-processed to have each ut-terance (sentences and stories) in a separate file and in thecorresponding directories.
The size of the speech corpusis about 8.5 GB on disk.
A collective duration of the au-dio files is more than 40 hours long.5.4 Transcription and AnnotationEach audio file is provided with its corresponding or-thographic transcription and TIMIT-style word-level seg-mentation, as well as morpho-syntactic annotation files.Both the transcript generation and the annotation wereperformed manually by trained linguists.
The transcrip-tion files contain the exact orthographic transcriptionsof the utterances, which may differ from the originaltext.
For example, the numbers, abbreviation, foreignwords and dates are expanded depending on how theywere uttered by the speakers.
In addition, the transcrip-tion of the stories have the sentence boundaries labeledwith <s> and </s> tags.
For the segmentation weused WaveSurfer (2013), an open-source tool for sound1029visualization and manipulation, which supports TIMITword-level transcription format.
Although, it supportsUnicode, it does provide a proper support for Kazakhsymbols.
Therefore, we used an ASCII version of theKazakh letters depicted on Figure 3.
Also, we used the #symbol for the pauses and silence, and ?
symbol for othernon-speech events.6 Conclusion and Future WorkIn this work we have described the design and compila-tion process of the Kazakh Language Corpus.
KLC isoriented for a wide range of users and we believe that itwill be a valuable tool for research communities, espe-cially given that a portion of the data has been labeledwith multiple levels of annotation, including word-levelsegmentation of audio information.
We are already usingthe annotated data in our initial experiments in morphemesegmentation and error correction.One can explore the corpus through the website(http://kazcorpus.kz) that was designed to pro-vide the best experience in the analysis of data.For the future work we plan to use the corpus as a re-search tool to tackle the following problems: (i) auto-matic part of speech tagging, (ii) morphological disam-biguation, (iii) statistical machine translation.
For thelatter we have already started collecting parallel text inRussian and English.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank the Ministry of Education andScience of the Republic of Kazakhstan for supporting thiswork through a grant under the 055 research program.We express our gratitude to Dr. A. Sharipbayev forhis valuable advice on methodology of constructing theread-speech corpus.We also would like to sincerely thank our validatorsand annotators: Bobek A., Asemgul R., Aidana Zh., Naz-erke G., Nazym K., Ainur N., Sandughash A., ZhuldyzaiS., Dinara O., Aigerim Zh.
The annotation and valida-tion work they have done helped a great deal in designingtagsets.
This work would not be possible without theircontribution.ReferencesYesim Aksan, Mustafa Aksan, Ahmet Koltuksuz, Taner Sezer,Umit Mersinli, Umut Ufuk Demirhan, Hakan Yilmazer, Gul-sum Atasoy, Seda Oz, Ipek Yildiz, and Ozlem Kurtoglu.2012.
Construction of the turkish national corpus (tnc).In Nicoletta Calzolari, Khalid Choukri, Thierry Declerck,Mehmet Ugur Dogan, Bente Maegaard, Joseph Mariani, JanOdijk, and Stelios Piperidis, editors, Proceedings of the EightInternational Conference on Language Resources and Eval-uation (LREC?12), Istanbul, Turkey, may.
European Lan-guage Resources Association (ELRA).L.
Al-Sulaiti and E.S.
Atwell.
2006.
The design of a corpus ofcontemporary arabic.
International Journal of Corpus Lin-guistics, 11:135?171.Gulila Altenbek and WANG Xiao-long.
2010.
Kazakh seg-mentation system of inflectional affixes.
In Joint Conferenceon Chinese Language Processing, pages 183?190.
CIPS-SIGHAN.Juri Apresjan, Igor Boguslavsky, Boris Iomdin, Leonid Iomdin,Andrei Sannikov, and Victor Sizov.
2006.
A syntacticallyand semantically tagged corpus of russian: State of the artand prospects.
In The fifth international conference on Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2006), Genoa, Italy.Vt.
Baisa and Vt. Suchomel.
2012.
Large corpora for tur-kic languages and unsupervised morphological analysis.
InProceedings of the Eight International Conference on Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation (LREC?12), pages 28?32,Istanbul, Turkey.
European Language Resources Association(ELRA).Lou Burnard, editor.
2007.
Reference Guide for the BritishNational Corpus.
Research Technologies Service at OxfordUniversity Computing Services, February.Alexandra Canavan and George Zipperlen.
1996.
Callhomejapanese speech.K.-j.
Chen.
1996.
Sinica corpus: Design methodology for bal-anced corpora.
In B.S.
Park and J.B. Kim, editors, Proceed-ing of the 11th Pacific Asia Conference on Language, Infor-mation and Computation, pages 167?176, Seoul.
Kyung HeeUniversity.CLMCRK.
2009.
The corpus of kazakh language.
[visited29/08/2012].David Elworthy.
1995.
Tagset design and inflected languages.In In EACL SIGDAT workshop iFrom Texts to Tags: Issuesin Multilingual Language Analysis, pages 1?10.Anna Feldman.
2008.
Tagset design, inflected languages, andn-gram tagging.
Editors: Paul Robertson and John Adam-son, 3(1):151.J.L.
Fleiss et al1971.
Measuring nominal scale agreementamong many raters.
Psychological Bulletin, 76(5):378?382.Winthrop Nelson Francis and Henry Kuc?era.
1979.
Manualof information to accompany a standard corpus of present-day edited American English, for use with digital computers.Brown University, Department of Lingustics.John Garofalo, David Graff, Doug Paul, and David Pallett.2007.
Csr-i (wsj0) complete linguistic data consortium,philadelphia.John S. Garofolo, Lori F. Lamel, William M. Fisher,Jonathan G. Fiscus, David S. Pallett, Nancy L. Dahlgren,and Victor Zue.
1993.
Timit acoustic-phonetic continuousspeech corpus.JJ Godfrey and E Holliman.
1997.
Switchboard-1 release 2.Linguistic Data Consortium, Philadelphia.Jan Hajic?
and Barbora Hladka?.
1998.
Tagging inflective lan-guages: prediction of morphological categories for a rich,structured tagset.
In Proceedings of the 36th Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics and17th International Conference on Computational Linguistics1030- Volume 1, ACL ?98, pages 483?490, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.Association for Computational Linguistics.Jirka Hana and Anna Feldman.
2010.
A positional tagset forrussian.
Proceedings of LREC-10.
Malta.Nancy Ide and Catherine Macleod.
2001.
The american na-tional corpus: A standardized resource of american english.In Paul Rayson, Andrew Wilson, Tony McEnery, AndrewHardie, , and Shereen Khoja, editors, Proceedings of the Cor-pus Linguistics 2001 Conference, pages 274?280.
LancasterUniversity (UK).N.
Ide, P. Bonhomme, and L. Romary.
2000.
Xces: An xml-based standard for linguistic corpora.
In Proceedings ofthe Second Annual Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation, pages 825?830, Athens.Nancy Ide.
1998.
Corpus encoding standard: Sgml guidelinesfor encoding linguistic corpora.
In Proceedings of the FirstInternational Language Resources and Evaluation Confer-ence, pages 463?70.
Citeseer.H.
Kim.
2006.
Korean national corpus in the 21st century se-jong project.
language corpora:their compilation and appli-cation.
In Proceedings of the 13th NIJL International Sym-posium, pages 49?54, Tokyo, March.Geoffrey Leech, Roger Garside, and Michael Bryant.
1994.Claws4: the tagging of the british national corpus.
InProceedings of the 15th conference on Computationallinguistics-Volume 1, pages 622?628.
Association for Com-putational Linguistics.R.
Gary Leonard and George Doddington.
1993.
Tidigits.Mitchell P. Marcus, Mary Ann Marcinkiewicz, and BeatriceSantorini.
1993.
Building a large annotated corpus of en-glish: the penn treebank.
Comput.
Linguist., 19(2):313?330,June.Akmaral Mukan.
2012.
A Learner?s Dictionary of Kazakh Id-ioms.
Georgetown University Press.Kemal Oflazer, Bilge Say, Dilek Zeynep Hakkani-Tu?r, andGo?khan Tu?r.
2003.
Building a turkish treebank.
In Tree-banks, pages 261?277.
Springer.Slav Petrov, Dipanjan Das, and Ryan McDonald.
2011.A universal part-of-speech tagset.
Arxiv preprintArXiv:1104.2086.John F. Pitrelli, Cynthia Fong, Suk H. Wong, Judith R. Spitz,and Hong C. Leung.
1995.
Phonebook: A phonetically-rich isolated-word telephone-speech database.
In ICASSP,volume 1, pages 101?104.Ruscorpora.
2003.
Russian national corpus.
[visited29/08/2012].WaveSurfer.
2013. http://www.speech.kth.se/wavesurfer/.
Accessed: 2013-03-30.Wikipedia.
2012.
Kazakh alphabet.
[visited 29/08/2012].1031
