Proceedings of the 2013 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 369?379,Seattle, Washington, USA, 18-21 October 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsUnsupervised Induction of Contingent Event Pairs from Film ScenesZhichao Hu, Elahe Rahimtoroghi, Larissa Munishkina, Reid Swanson and Marilyn A. WalkerNatural Language and Dialogue Systems LabDepartment of Computer Science, University of California, Santa CruzSanta Cruz, CA, 95064{zhu, elahe, mlarissa, reid, maw}@soe.ucsc.eduAbstractHuman engagement in narrative is partiallydriven by reasoning about discourse relationsbetween narrative events, and the expectationsabout what is likely to happen next that resultsfrom such reasoning.
Researchers in NLPhave tackled modeling such expectations froma range of perspectives, including treating it asthe inference of the CONTINGENT discourserelation, or as a type of common-sense causalreasoning.
Our approach is to model likeli-hood between events by drawing on several ofthese lines of previous work.
We implementand evaluate different unsupervised methodsfor learning event pairs that are likely to beCONTINGENT on one another.
We refine eventpairs that we learn from a corpus of film scenedescriptions utilizing web search counts, andevaluate our results by collecting human judg-ments of contingency.
Our results indicate thatthe use of web search counts increases the av-erage accuracy of our best method to 85.64%over a baseline of 50%, as compared to an av-erage accuracy of 75.15% without web search.1 IntroductionHuman engagement in narrative is partially drivenby reasoning about discourse relations between nar-rative events, and the expectations about what islikely to happen next that results from such reason-ing (Gerrig, 1993; Graesser et al 1994; Lehnert,1981; Goyal et al 2010).
Thus discourse relationsare one of the primary means to structure narrativein genres as diverse as weblogs, search queries, sto-ries, film scripts and news articles (Chambers andJurafsky, 2009; Manshadi et al 2008; Gordon andSwanson, 2009; Gordon et al 2011; Beamer andGirju, 2009; Riaz and Girju, 2010; Do et al 2011).DOUGLAS QUAIL and his wife KRISTEN, areasleep in bed.Gradually the room lights brighten.
the clock chimesand begins speaking in a soft, feminine voice.They don?t budge.
Shortly, the clock chimes again.Quail?s wife stirs.
Maddeningly, the clock chimes athird time.CLOCK (continuing)Tick, tock ?.Quail reaches out and shuts the clock off.
Then he sitsup in bed.He swings his legs out from under the covers and sitson the edge of the bed.
He puts on his glasses and sits,lost in thought.He is a good-looking but conventional man in his earlythirties.
He seems rather in awe of his wife, who isattractive and rather off-hand towards him.Kirsten pulls on her robe, lights a cigarette, sits fishingfor her slippers.Figure 1: Opening Scene from Total RecallRecent work in NLP has tackled the inference ofrelations between events from a broad range of per-spectives: (1) as inference of a discourse relations(e.g.
the Penn Discourse Treebank (PDTB) CON-TINGENT relation and its specializations); (2) as atype of common sense reasoning; (3) as part of textunderstanding to support question-answering; and(4) as way of learning script-like or plot-like knowl-edge structures.
All these lines of work aim to modelnarrative understanding, i.e.
to enable systems to in-fer which events are likely to have happened eventhough they have not been mentioned in the text(Schank et al 1977), and which events are likelyto happen in the future.
Such knowledge has prac-tical applications in commonsense reasoning, infor-369mation retrieval, question answering, narrative un-derstanding and inferring discourse relations.We model this likelihood between events bydrawing on the PTDB?s general definition of theCONTINGENT relation, which encapsulates relationselsewhere called CAUSE, CONDITION and ENABLE-MENT (Prasad et al 2008a; Lin et al 2010; Pitler etal., 2009; Louis et al 2010).
Our aim in this paperis to implement and evaluate a range of different un-supervised methods for learning event pairs that arelikely to be CONTINGENT on one another.We first utilize a corpus of scene descriptionsfrom films because they are guaranteed to have anexplicit narrative structure.
Moreover, screenplayscene descriptions tend to be told in temporal or-der (Beamer and Girju, 2009; Gordon and Swan-son, 2009), which makes them a good resource forlearning about contingencies between events.
Inaddition, scenes in film represent many typical se-quences from real life, while providing a rich sourceof event clusters related to battles, love and mys-tery.
We carry out separate experiments for the ac-tion movie genre and the romance movie genre.
Forexample, in the scene from Total Recall, from theaction movie genre (See Fig.
1), we might learn thatthe event of sits up is CONTINGENT on the eventof clock chimes.
The subset of the corpus weuse comprises 123,869 total unique event pairs.We produce initial scalar estimates of poten-tial CONTINGENCY between events using fourpreviously defined measures of distributional co-occurrence.
We then refine these estimates throughweb searches that explicitly model the patterns ofnarrative event sequences that were previously ob-served to be likely within a particular genre.
Thereare several advantages of this method: (1) events inthe same genre tend to be more similar than eventsacross genres, so less data is needed to estimateco-occurrence; (2) film scenes are typically nar-rated via simple tenses in the correct temporal order,which allows the ordering of events to contribute tothe estimation of the CONTINGENCY relation; (3)The web counts focus on validating event pairs al-ready deemed to be likely to be CONTINGENT inthe smaller, more controlled, film scene corpus.
Totest our method, we conduct perceptual experimentswith human subjects on Mechanical Turk by askingthem to select which of two pairs of events are themost likely.
For example, given the scene from To-tal Recall in Fig.
1, Mechanical Turkers are askedto select whether the sequential event pair clockchimes, sits up is more likely than clockchimes followed by a randomly selected eventfrom the action film genre.
Our experimental dataand annotations are available at http://nlds.soe.ucsc.edu/data/EventPairs.Sec.
2 describes our experimental method in de-tail.
Sec.
3 describes how we set up our evaluationexperiments and the results.
We show that none ofthe methods from previous work perform better onour data than 75.15% average accuracy as measuredby human perceptions of CONTINGENCY.
But afterweb search refinement, we achieve an average accu-racy of 85.64%.
We delay a more detailed compari-son to previous work to Sec.
4 where we summarizeour results and compare previous work to our own.2 Experimental MethodOur method uses a combination of estimatingthe likelihood of a CONTINGENT relation betweenevents in a corpus of film scenes (Walker et al2012b), with estimates then revised through websearch.
Our experiments are based on two sub-sets of 862 film screen plays collected from theIMSDb website using its ontology of film genres(Walker et al 2012b): a set of action movies of 115screenplays totalling 748 MB, and a set of romancemovies of 71 screenplays totalling 390 MB.
Fig.
1provided an example scene from the action moviegenre from the IMSDb corpus.We assume that the relation we are aiming to learnis the PDTB CONTINGENT relation, which is de-fined as a relation that exists when one of the sit-uations described in the text spans that are identi-fied as the two arguments of the relation, i.e.
Arg1and Arg2, causally influences the other (Prasad etal., 2008b).
As Girju notes, it is notoriously dif-ficult to define causality without making the defi-nition circular, but we follow Beamer and Girju?swork in assuming that if events A, B are causallyrelated then B should occur less frequently when itis not preceded by A and that B?A should be muchless frequent than A?
B.
We assume that both theCAUSE and CONDITION subtypes of the CONTIN-GENCY relation will result in pairs of events that arelikely to occur together and in a particular order.
Inparticular we assume that the subtypes of the PDTBtaxonomy of Contingency.Cause.Reason and Con-tingency.Cause.Result are the most likely to occurtogether as noted in previous work.
Other related370work has made use of discourse connectives or dis-course taggers (implicit discourse relations) to pro-vide additional evidence of CONTINGENCY (Do etal., 2011; Gordon et al 2011; Chiarcos, 2012; Pitleret al 2009; Lin et al 2010), but we do not becausethe results have been mixed.
In particular these dis-course taggers are trained on The Wall Street Journal(WSJ) and are unlikely to work well on our data.We define an event as a verb lemma with its sub-ject and object.
Two events are considered equal ifthey have the same verb.
We do not believe wordambiguities to be a primary concern, and previouswork also defines events to be the same if they havethe same surface verb, in some cases with a restric-tion that the dependency relations should also bethe same (Chambers and Jurafsky, 2008; Chambersand Jurafsky, 2009; Do et al 2011; Riaz and Girju,2010; Manshadi et al 2008).
Word sense ambigu-ities are also reduced in specific genres (Action andRomance) of film scenes.Our method for estimating the likelihood of aCONTINGENT relations between events consists offour steps:1.
TEXT PROCESSING: We use StanfordCoreNLP to annotate the corpus docu-ment by document and store the annotated textin XML format (Sec.
2.1);2.
COMPUTE EVENT REPRESENTATIONS: Weform intermediate artifacts such as events, pro-tagonists and event pairs from the annotateddocuments.
Each event has its arguments (sub-ject and object).
We calculate the frequency ofthe event across the relevant genre (Sec.
2.2);3.
CALCULATE CONTINGENCY MEASURES: Wedefine 4 different measures of contingency andcalculate each one separately using the resultsfrom Steps 1 and 2 above.
We call each re-sult a PREDICTED CONTINGENT EVENT PAIR(PCEP).
All measures return scalar values thatwe use to rank the PCEPs (Sec.
2.3);4.
WEB SEARCH REFINEMENT: We select the top100 event pairs calculated by each contingencymeasure, and construct a RANDOM EVENTPAIR (REP) for each PCEP that preserves thefirst element of the PCEP, and replaces the sec-ond element with another event selected ran-domly from within the same genre.
We thendefine web search patterns for both PCEP andREPs and compare the counts (Sec.
2.4).2.1 Text ProcessingWe first separate our screen plays into two sets ofdocuments, one for the action genre and one for theromance genre.
Because we are interested in theevent descriptions that are part of the scene descrip-tions, we excise the dialog from each screen play.Then using the Stanford CoreNLP pipeline, we an-notate the film scene files.
Annotations include tok-enization, lemmatization, named entity recognition,parsing and coreference resolution.We extract the events by keeping all tokens whosePOS tags begin with VB.
We then use the depen-dency parse to find the subject and object of eachverb (if any), considering only nsubj, agent,dobj, iobj, nsubjpass.
We keep the orig-inal tokens of the subject and the object for furtherprocessing.2.2 Compute Event RepresentationsGiven the results of Step 1 we start by generalizingthe subject and object stored with each event by sub-stituting tokens with named entities if there are anynamed entities tagged.
Otherwise we generalize thesubjects and the objects using their lemmas.
For ex-ample, person UNLOCK door, as illustrated inTable 1.We then integrate all the subjects and objectsacross all film scene files, keeping a record of thefrequency of each subject and object.
For example,[person (115), organization (14),door (3)] UNLOCK [door (127),person (5), bars (2)].
The most frequentsubject and object are selected as representative ar-guments for the event.
We then count the frequencyof each event across all the film scene files.Within each film scene file, we count adjacentevents as potential CONTINGENT event pairs.
Twoevent pairs are defined as equal if they have the sameverbs in the same order.
We also count the frequencyof each event pair.2.3 Calculate Contingency MeasuresWe calculate four different measures of CONTIN-GENCY based on previous work using the resultsof Steps 1 and 2 (Sec.
2.1 and Sec.
2.2).
Thesemeasures are pointwise mutual information, causalpotential, bigram probability and protagonist-based371causal potential as described in detail below.
Wecalculate each measure separately by genre for theaction and romance genres of the film corpus.Pointwise Mutual Information.
The majority ofrelated work uses pointwise mutual information(PMI) in some form or another (Chambers and Ju-rafsky, 2008; Chambers and Jurafsky, 2009; Riazand Girju, 2010; Do et al 2011).
Given a set ofevents (a verb and its collected set of subjects andobjects), we calculate the PMI using the standarddefinition:pmi(e1, e2) = logP (e1, e2)P (e1)P (e2)(1)in which e1 and e2 are two events.
P (e1) is theprobability that event e1 occur in the corpus:P (e1) =count(e1)?x count(ex)(2)where count(e1) is the count of how many timesevent e1 occurs in the corpus, and?x count(ex) isthe count of all the events in the corpus.
The nu-merator is the probability that the two events occurtogether in the corpus:P (e1, e2) =count(e1, e2)?x?y count(ex, ey)(3)in which count(e1, e2) is the number of times thetwo events e1 and e2 occur together in the corpusregardless of their order.
Only adjacent events ineach document are paired up.
PMI is a symmetricmeasurement for the relationship between twoevents.
The order of the events does not matter.Causal Potential.
Beamer and Girju proposed ameasure called Causal Potential (CP) based on pre-vious work in philosophy and logic, along with anannotation test for causality.
An annotator decid-ing whether event A causes event B asks herself thefollowing questions, where answering yes to bothmeans the two events are causally related:?
Does event A occur before (or simultaneously)with event B??
Keeping constant as many other states of affairsof the world in the given text context as possi-ble, does modifying event A entail predictablymodifying event B?As Beamer & Girju note, this annotation test isobjective, and it is simple to execute mentally.
Itonly assumes that the average person knows a lotabout how things work in the world and can reliablyanswer these questions.
CP is then defined below,where the arrow notation means ordered bigrams,i.e.
event e1 occurs before event e2:?
(e1, e2) = pmi(e1, e2) + logP (e1 ?
e2)P (e2 ?
e1)(4)where pmi(e1, e2) = logP (e1, e2)P (e1)P (e2)The causal potential consists of two terms: thefirst is pair-wise mutual information (PMI) andthe second is relative ordering of bigrams.
PMImeasures how often events occur as a pair; whereasrelative ordering counts how often event orderoccurs in the bigram.
If there is no ordering ofevents, the relative ordering is zero.
We smoothunseen event pairs by setting their frequency equalto 1 to avoid zero probabilities.
For CP as with PMI,we restrict these calculations to adjacent events.Column CP of Table 1 below provides samplevalues for the CP measure.Probabilistic Language Models.
Our third methodmodels event sequences using statistical languagemodels (Manshadi et al 2008).
A language modelestimates the probability of a sequence of words us-ing a sample corpus.
To identify contingent eventsequences, we apply a bigram model which esti-mates the probability of observing the sequence oftwo words w1 and w2 as follows:P (w1, w2) ?= P (w2|w1) =count(w1, w2)count(w1)(5)Here, the words are events.
Each verb is a singleevent and each film scene is treated as a sequence ofverbs.
For example, consider the following sentencefrom Total Recall:Quail and Kirsten sit at a small table,eating breakfast.This sentence is represented as the sequence of itstwo verbs: sit, eat.
We estimate the probabilityof verb bigrams using Equation 5 and hypothesizethat the verb sequences with higher probability are372Row # Causal Potential Pair CP PCEP Search pat-ternNumHits Random Pair REP Search pat-ternNumHits1 person KNOW person -person MEAN what2.18 he knows * means 415M person KNOW person -person PEDDLE papershe knows * ped-dles22 person COME - personREST head2.12 he comes * rests 158M person COME - personGLANCE windowhe comes *glances413 person SLAM person -person SHUT door2.11 he slams * shuts 11 person SLAM person -person CHUCKLEhe slams * chuck-les04 person UNLOCK door -person ENTER room2.11 he unlocks * en-ters80 person UNLOCK door -person ACT shothe unlocks * acts 05 person SLOW person -person STOP person2.10 he slows * stops 697K person SLOW person -eyes RIVET eyeshe slows * rivets 06 person LOOK window -person WONDER thing2.06 he looks * won-ders342M person LOOK window -person EDGE hardnesshe looks * edges 987 person TAKE person -person LOOK window2.01 he takes * looks 163M person TAKE person -person CATCH personhe takes * catches 311M8 person MANAGE smile -person GET person2.01 he manages * gets 80M person MANAGE smile- person APPROACHpersonhe manages * ap-proaches169 person DIVE escape -person SWIM way2.00 he dives * swims 1.5M person DIVE escape -gun JAM personhe dives * jams 610 person STAGGER person- person DROP person2.00 he staggers *drops33 person STAGGER per-son - plain WHEEL per-sonhe staggers *wheels111 person SHOOT person -person FALL feet1.99 he shoots * falls 55.7M person SHOOT person -person PREVENT per-sonhe shoots * pre-vents612 person SQUEEZE person- person SHUT door1.87 he squeezes *shuts5 person SQUEEZE per-son - person MARK per-sonhe squeezes *marks113 person SEE person - per-son GO1.87 he sees * goes 184M person SEE person - im-age QUIVER hipshe sees * quivers 2Table 1: Sample web search patterns and values used in web search refinement algorithm from action genremore likely to be contingent.
We apply a thresholdof 20 for count(w1, w2) to avoid infrequent anduncommon bigrams.Protagonist-based Models.
We also used a methodof generating event pairs based not only on the con-secutive events in text but on their protagonist.
Thisis based on the assumption that the agent, or protag-onist, will tend to perform actions that further herown goals, and are thus causally related.
We calledthis method protagonist-based because all eventswere partitioned into multiple sets where each set ofevents has one protagonist.
This method is roughlybased on previous work using chains of discourseentities to induce narrative schemas (Chambers andJurafsky, 2009).Events that share one protagonist were extractedfrom text according to co-referring mentions pro-vided by the Stanford CoreNLP toolkit.1 A man-ual examination of coreference results on a sampleof movie scripts suggests that the accuracy is onlyaround 60%: most of the time the same entity (in its1http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/corenlp.shtmlnominal and pronominal forms) was not recognizedand was assigned as a new entity.We preserve the order of events based on their tex-tual order assuming as above that film scripts tendto preserve temporal order.
An ordered event pairis generated if both events share a protagonist.
Wefurther filter event pairs by eliminating those whosefrequency is less than 5 to filter insignificant and rareevent pairs.
This also tends to catch errors generatedby the Stanford parser.CP was then calculated accordingly to Equa-tion 4.
To calculate the PMI part of CP, we combinethe frequencies of event pairs in both orders.2.4 Web Search RefinementThe final step of our method is WEB SEARCH RE-FINEMENT.
Our hypothesis is that using the filmcorpus within a particular genre to do the initial esti-mates of contingency takes advantage of genre prop-erties such as similar events and narration of scenesin chronological order.
However the film corpus isnecessarily small, and we can augment the evidencefor a particular contingent relation by defining spe-cific narrative sequence patterns and collecting web373counts.Recall that PCEP stands for predicted contin-gent event pair and that REP stands for randomevent pair.
We first select the top 100 event pairscalculated by each CONTINGENCY measure, andconstruct a RANDOM EVENT PAIR (REP) for eachPCEP that preserves the first element of the PCEP,and replaces the second element with another eventselected randomly from within the same genre.
Wethen define web search patterns for both PCEP andREPs and compare the counts.
PCEPs should be fre-quent in web search and REPs should be infrequent.Our web refinement procedure is:?
For each event pair, PCEPs and REPs, create aGoogle search pattern as illustrated by Table 1,and described in more detail below.?
Search for the exact match in Google gen-eral web search using incognito browsing andrecord the estimated count of results returned;?
Remove all the PCEP/REP pairs with PCEPGoogle search count less than 100: highly con-tingent events should be frequent in a generalweb search;?
Remove all PCEP/REP pairs with REP Googlesearch count greater than 100: events that arenot contingent on one another should not befrequent in a general web search.The motivation for this step is to provide addi-tional evidence for or against the contingency of apair of events.
Table 1 shows a selection of the top100 PCEPs learned using the Causal potential (CP)Metric, the web search patterns that are automati-cally derived from the PCEPs (Column 4), the REPsthat were constructed for each PCEP (Column 6),the web search patterns that were automatically de-rived from the REPs (Column 7).
Column 5 showsthe results of web search hits for the PCEP patternsand Column 8 shows the results of web search hitsfor the REP patterns.
These hit counts were thenused in refining our estimates of CONTINGENCY forthe learned patterns as described above.Note that the web search patterns do not aim tofind every possible match of the targeted CONTIN-GENT relation that could possibly occur.
Instead,they are generalizations of the instances of PCEPsthat we found in the films corpus that are targeted atfinding hits that are the most likely to occur in nar-rative sequences.
Narrative sequences are most re-liably signalled by use of the historical present tense,e.g.
as instantiated in the search patterns He knowsin Row 1 and He comes in Row 2 of Table 1 (Swan-son and Gordon, 2012; Beamer and Girju, 2009;Labov and Waletzky, 1997).
In addition, we usethe ?*?
operator in Google Search to limit searchto pairs of events reported in the historical presenttense, that are ?near?
one another, and in a particularsequence.
We don?t care whether the events are inthe same utterance or in sequential utterances, thusfor the second verb (event) we do not include a sub-ject pronoun he.
These search patterns are not in-tended to match the original instances in the filmcorpus and in general they are unlikely to matchthose instances.For example, consider the search patterns andresults shown in Row 1 of Table 1.
ThePCEP is (person KNOW person, personMEAN what).
The REP is (person KNOWperson, person PEDDLE papers).
Ourprediction is that the REP should be much less likelyin web search counts and the results validate thatpredication.
A paired t-test over the 100 top PCEPpairs for the CP measure comparing the hit countsfor the PCEP pairs vs. the REP pairs was highlysignificant (p < .00001).
However, consider Row7.
Even though in general the PCEP pairs are morelikely (as measured by the paired t-test compar-ing web search counts for PCEPs vs REPs), thereare cases where the REP is highly likely as shownby the REP (person take person, personCATCH person) in Row 7.
Alternatively there arecases where the web search counts provide evidenceagainst one of the PCEPs.
Consider Rows 3, 4, 10and 12.
In all of these cases the web counts NumHitsfor the PCEP number in the tens.After the web search refinement, we retain thePCEP/REP pairs with initially high PCEP estimates,for which we found good evidence for contingencyand for randomness, e.g.
Row 1 and 2 in Table 1.We use 100 as a threshold because most of the timethe estimate result count from Google is either avery large number (millions) or a very small num-ber (tens), as illustrated by the NumHits columns inTable 1.We experimented with different types of patternswith a development set of PCEPs before we settledon the search pattern template shown in Table 1.
We374decided to use third person rather than first personpatterns, because first person patterns are only onetype of narrative (Swanson and Gordon, 2012).
Wealso decided to utilize event patterns without typicalobjects, such as head in person REST head inRow 2 of Table 1.
We do not have any evidence thatthis is the optimal search pattern template becausewe did not systematically try other types of searchpatterns.3 Evaluation and ResultsWhile other work uses a range of methods for evalu-ating accuracy, to our knowledge our work is the firstto use human judgments from Mechanical Turk toevaluate the accuracy of the learned PCEPs.
We firstdescribe the evaluation setup in Sec.
3.1 and then re-port the results in Sec.
3.23.1 Mechanical Turk Contingent PairEvaluationsWe used three different types of HITs (Human Intel-ligence Tasks) on Mechanical Turk for our evalua-tion.
Two of the HITS are in Fig.
2 and Fig.
3.
Thedifferences in the different types of HITS involve:(1) whether the arguments of events were given inthe HIT, as in Fig.
2 and (2): whether the Turkerswere told that the order of the events mattered, asin Fig.
3.
We initially thought that providing thearguments to the events as shown in Fig.
2 wouldhelp Turkers to reason about which event was morelikely.
We tested this hypothesis only in the actiongenre for the Causal Potential Measure.
For CP, Bi-gram and Protag the order of events always matters.For the PMI task, the order of the events doesn?tmatter because PMI is a symmetric measure.
Fig.
2illustrates the instructions that were given with theHIT when the event order doesn?t matter.
In all theother cases, the instructions that were given with theHIT are those in Fig.
3 where the Turkers are in-structed to pay attention to the order of the events.For all types of HITS, for all measures of CON-TINGENCY, we set up the task as a choice overtwo alternatives, where for each predicted contin-gent pair (PCEP), we generate a random event pair(REP), with the first event the same and the secondone randomly chosen from all the events in the samefilm genre.
The REPs are constructed the same wayas we construct REPs for web search refinement,as illustrated by Table 1.
This is illustrated in bothFig.
2 and Fig.
3.
For all types of HITS, we ask 15Turkers from a pre-qualified group to select whichpair (the PCEP or the REP) is more likely to oc-cur together.
Thus, the framing of these Mechani-cal Turk tasks only assumes that the average personknows how the world works; we do not ask them toexplicitly reason about causality as other work does(Beamer and Girju, 2009; Gordon et al 2011; Do etal., 2011).For each measure of CONTINGENCY, we take 100event pairs with highest PCEP scores, and put themin 5 HITs with twenty items per HIT.
Previous workhas shown that for many common NLP tasks, 7Turkers?
average score can match expert annotations(Snow et al 2008).
However, we use 15 Turkersbecause we had no gold-standard data and becausewe were not sure how difficult the task is.
It isclearly subjective.
To calculate the accuracy of eachmethod, we computed the average correlation coef-ficient between each pair of raters and eliminate the5 lowest scoring workers.
We then used the percep-tions of the 10 remaining workers to calculate accu-racy as # of correct answers / total # of answers.In general, deciding when a MTurk worker is un-reliable when the data is subjective is a difficultproblem.
In the future we plan to test other solu-tions to measuring annotator reliability as proposedin related work (Callison-Burch, 2009; Snow et al2008; Karger et al 2011; Dawid and Skene, 1979;Welinder et al 2010; Liu et al 2012).3.2 ResultsWe report our results in terms of overall accuracy.Because the Mechanical Turk task is a choose-one question rather than a binary classification,Precision = Recall in our experimental results:True Positive = Number of Correct AnswersTrue Negative = Number of Correct AnswersFalse Positive = Number of Incorrect AnswersFalse Positive = Number of Incorrect AnswersPrecision =True PositiveTrue Positive + False PositiveRecall =True PositiveTrue Positive + False NegativeThe accuracies of all the methods are shown inTable 2.
The results of using event arguments(person KNOW person) in the Mechanical Turkevaluation task (i.e.
Fig.
2) is given in Rows 1 and2 of Table 2.
The accuracies for Rows 1 and 2 are375Figure 2: Mechanical Turk HIT with event arguments provided.
This HIT also illustrates instructions where Turkersare told that the order of the events does not matter.Row#Contingency Estimation Method ActionAcc%RomanceAcc%AverageAcc%1 CP with event arguments 69.30 NA 69.302 CP with event arguments + Web search 77.57 NA 77.573 CP no args 75.20 75.10 75.154 CP no args +Web Search 87.67 83.61 85.645 PMI no args 68.70 79.60 74.156 PMI no args +Web Search 72.11 88.52 80.327 Bigram no args 67.10 66.50 66.808 Bigram no args +Web Search 72.40 70.14 71.279 Protag CP no args 65.40 68.20 66.8010 Protag CP no args +Web Search 76.59 64.10 70.35Table 2: Evaluation results for the top 100 event pairs using all methods.considerably lower than when the PCEPs are testedwithout arguments.
Comparing Rows 1 and 2 withRows 3 and 4 suggests that even if the argumentsprovide extra information that help to ground thetype of event, in some cases these constraints onevents may mislead the Turkers or make the eval-uation task more difficult.
There is an over 10% in-crease in CP + Web search accuracy for the task thatomits the event arguments (i.e.
Fig.
3 as can be seenby comparing Row 2 with Row 4.
Thus omitting thearguments of events in evaluations actually appearsto allow Turkers to make better judgments.In addition, Table 2 shows clearly that for ev-ery single method, accuracy is improved by refin-ing the initial estimates of contingency using thenarrative-based web search patterns.
Web search in-376Figure 3: Mechanical Turk HIT for evaluation with no event arguments provided.
This HIT also illustrates instructionswhere Turkers are told that the order of the events does matter.creases the accuracy of almost all evaluation tasks,with increases ranging from 3.45% to 12.5% whenaveraged over both film genres (Column 5 AverageAcc%).
The best performing method for the Ac-tion genre is CP+Web Search at 87.67%, while thebest performing method for the Romance genre isPMI+Web search at 88.52%.
However PMI+WebSearch does not beat CP+Web Search on averageover both genres we tested, even though the Me-chanical Turk HIT for CP specifies that the order ofthe events matters: a more stringent criterion.
Alsooverall the CP+WebSearch method achieves a veryhigh 85.64% average accuracy.It is also interesting to note the variation acrossthe different methods.
For example, while it iswell known that PMI typically requires very largecorpora to make good estimates, the PMI methodwithout web search refinement has an initially highaccuracy of 79.60% for the romance genre, whileonly achieving 68.70% for action.
Perhaps this dif-ference arises because the romance genre is morehighly causal, or because situations are more struc-tured in romance, providing better estimates with asmall corpus.
However even in this case of romancewith PMI, adding web search refinement providesan almost 10% increase in absolute accuracy to thehighest accuracy of any combination, i.e.
88.52%.There is also an interesting case of Protag CP forthe romance genre where web search refinement ac-tually decreases accuracy by 4.1%.
In future workwe plan to examine more genres from the film cor-pus and also examine the role of corpus size in moredetail.4 Discussion and Future WorkWe induced event pairs using several methods fromprevious work with similar aims but widely differentproblem formulations and evaluation methods.
Weused a verb-rich film scene corpus where events arenormally narrated in temporal order.
We used Me-chanical Turk to evaluate the learned pairs of CON-TINGENT events using human perceptions.
In thefirst stage drawing on previous measures of distribu-tional co-occurrence, we achieved an overall averageaccuracy of around 70%, over a 50% baseline.
Wethen implemented a novel method of defining narra-tive sequence patterns using the Google Search API,and used web counts to further refine our estimatesof the contingency of the learned event pairs.
Thisincreased the overall average accuracy to around77%, which is 27% above the baseline.
Our resultsindicate that the use of web search counts increasesthe average accuracy of our Causal Potential-basedmethod to 85.64% as compared to an average accu-racy of 75.15% without web search.
To our knowl-edge this is the highest accuracy achieved in tasks of377this kind to date.Previous work on recognition of the PDTB CON-TINGENT relation has used both supervised and un-supervised learning, and evaluation typically mea-sures precision and recall against a PDTB annotatedcorpus (Do et al 2011; Pitler et al 2009; Zhou etal., 2010; Chiarcos, 2012; Louis et al 2010).
Weuse an unsupervised approach and measure accuracyusing human perceptions.
Other work by Girju andher students defined a measure called causal poten-tial and then used film screen plays to learn a knowl-edge base of causal pairs of events.
They evaluatethe pairs by asking two trained human annotators tolabel whether occurrences of those pairs in their cor-pus are causally related (Beamer and Girju, 2009;Riaz and Girju, 2010).
We also make use of theircausal potential measure.
Work on commonsensecausal reasoning aims to learn causal relations be-ween pairs of events using a range of methods ap-plied to a large corpus of weblog narratives (Gordonet al 2011; Gordon and Swanson, 2009; Manshadiet al 2008).
One form of evaluation aimed to pre-dict the last event in a sequence (Manshadi et al2008), while more recent work uses the learned pairsto improve performance on the COPA SEMEVALtask (Gordon et al 2011).Related work on SCRIPT LEARNING induceslikely sequences of temporally ordered events innews, rather than CONTINGENCY or CAUSALITY(Chambers and Jurafsky, 2008; Chambers and Ju-rafsky, 2009).
Chambers & Jurafsky also evaluateagainst a corpus of existing documents, by leavingone event out of a document (news story), and thentesting the system?s ability to predict the missingevent.
To our knowledge, our method is the firstto augment distributional semantics measures froma corpus with web search data.
We are also the firstto evaluate the learned event pairs with a human per-ceptual evaluation with native speakers.We hypothesize that there are several advantagesto our method: (1) events in the same genre tend tobe more similar than events across genres, so lessdata is needed to estimate co-occurrence; (2) filmscenes are typically narrated via simple tenses in thecorrect temporal order, which allows the orderingof events to contribute to estimates of the CONTIN-GENCY relation; (3) The web counts focus on vali-dating event pairs already deemed to be likely to beCONTINGENT in the smaller, more controlled, filmscence corpus.Our work capitalizes on event sequences narratedin temporal order as a cue to causality.
We expectthis approach to generalize to other domains wherethese properties hold, such as fables, personal storiesand news articles.
We do not expect this techniqueto generalize without further refinements to genresfrequently told out of temporal order or when eventsare not mentioned consecutively in the text, for ex-ample in certain types of fiction.In future work we want to explore in more de-tail the differences in performance of the differentcontingency measures.
For example, previous workwould suggest that the the higher the measure is, themore likely the two events are to be contingent onone another.
To date, while we have only tested thetop 100, we have not found that the bottom set of20 are less accurate than the top set of 20.
Thiscould be due to corpus size, or the measures them-selves, or noise from parser accuracy etc.
As shownin Table 2, web search refinement is able to eliminatemost noise in event pairs, but we would still aim toachieve a better understanding of the circumstanceswhich lead particular methods to work better.In future work we also want to explore ways of in-ducing larger event structures than event pairs, suchas the causal chains, scripts, or narrative schemas ofprevious work.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank Yan Li for setting up au-tomatic search query.
We also thank members ofNLDS for their discussions and suggestions, espe-cially Stephanie Lukin, Rob Abbort, and Grace Lin.ReferencesB.
Beamer and R. Girju.
2009.
Using a bigram eventmodel to predict causal potential.
In ComputationalLinguistics and Intelligent Text Processing, p. 430?441.
Springer.C.
Callison-Burch.
2009.
Fast, cheap, and creative: eval-uating translation quality using amazon?s mechanicalturk.
In Proc.
of the 2009 Conference on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing: Volume 1 -Volume 1, p. 286?295.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.N.
Chambers and D. Jurafsky.
2008.
Unsupervisedlearning of narrative event chains.
Proc.
of ACL-08:HLT, p. 789?797.N.
Chambers and D. Jurafsky.
2009.
Unsupervisedlearning of narrative schemas and their participants.
In378Proc.
of the Joint Conference of the 47th Annual Meet-ing of the ACL and the 4th International Joint Confer-ence on Natural Language Processing of the AFNLP:Volume 2-Volume 2, p. 602?610.C.
Chiarcos.
2012.
Towards the unsupervised acquisi-tion of discourse relations.
In Proc.
of the 50th AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics: Short Papers-Volume 2, p. 213?217.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.A.
P. Dawid and A. M. Skene.
1979.
Maximum likeli-hood estimation of observer error-rates using the EMalgorithm.
Journal of the Royal Statistical Society.
Se-ries C (Applied Statistics), 28(1):20?28.Q.
X.
Do, Y. S. Chan, and D. Roth.
2011.
Minimallysupervised event causality identification.
In Proc.
ofthe Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing, p. 294?303.
Association for Com-putational Linguistics.R.J.
Gerrig.
1993.
Experiencing narrative worlds: Onthe psychological activities of reading.
Yale Univ Pr.A.
Gordon and R. Swanson.
2009.
Identifying personalstories in millions of weblog entries.
In Third Interna-tional Conference on Weblogs and Social Media, DataChallenge Workshop.A.
Gordon, Cosmin Bejan, and Kenji Sagae.
2011.
Com-monsense causal reasoning using millions of personalstories.
In Twenty-Fifth Conference on Artificial Intel-ligence (AAAI-11).A.
Goyal, E. Riloff, and H. Daume?
III.
2010.
Automat-ically producing plot unit representations for narrativetext.
In Proc.
of the 2010 Conference on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing, p. 77?86.Association for Computational Linguistics.A.
C. Graesser, M. Singer, and T. Trabasso.
1994.
Con-structing inferences during narrative text comprehen-sion.
Psychological review, 101(3):371.D.
R. Karger, S. Oh, and D. Shah.
2011.
Iterativelearning for reliable crowdsourcing systems.
In JohnShawe-Taylor, Richard S. Zemel, Peter L. Bartlett,Fernando C. N. Pereira, and Kilian Q. Weinberger, ed-itors, NIPS, p. 1953?1961.W.
Labov and J. Waletzky.
1997.
Narrative analysis:Oral versions of personal experience.W.
G. Lehnert.
1981.
Plot units and narrative summa-rization.
Cognitive Science, 5(4):293?331.Z.
Lin, M.-Y.
Kan, and H. T Ng.
2010.
A pdtb-styledend-to-end discourse parser.
In Proc.
of the Confer-ence on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Pro-cessing.Q.
Liu, J. Peng, and A. Ihler.
2012.
Variational inferencefor crowdsourcing.
In Advances in Neural InformationProcessing Systems 25, p. 701?709.A.
Louis, A. Joshi, R. Prasad, and A. Nenkova.
2010.Using entity features to classify implicit relations.
InProc.
of the 11th Annual SIGdial Meeting on Dis-course and Dialogue, Tokyo, Japan.M.
Manshadi, R. Swanson, and A.
S Gordon.
2008.Learning a probabilistic model of event sequencesfrom internet weblog stories.
In Proc.
of the 21stFLAIRS Conference.E.
Pitler, A. Louis, and A. Nenkova.
2009.
Automaticsense prediction for implicit discourse relations in text.In Proc.
of the 47th Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics.R.
Prasad, N. Dinesh, A. Lee, E. Miltsakaki, L. Robaldo,A.
Joshi, and B. Webber.
2008a.
The penn discoursetreebank 2.0.
In Proc.
of the 6th International Confer-ence on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC2008), p. 2961?2968.R.
Prasad, N. Dinesh, A. Lee, E. Miltsakaki, L. Robaldo,A.
Joshi, and B. Webber.
2008b.
The Penn DiscourseTreeBank 2.0.
In Proc.
of 6th International Confer-ence on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC2008).M.
Riaz and R. Girju.
2010.
Another look at causal-ity: Discovering scenario-specific contingency rela-tionships with no supervision.
In Semantic Computing(ICSC), 2010 IEEE Fourth International Conferenceon, p. 361?368.
IEEE.R.
Schank and R. Abelson.
1977.
Scripts Plans Goals.Lea.R.
Snow, B. O?Connor, D. Jurafsky, and A.Y.
Ng.
2008.Cheap and fast?but is it good?
: evaluating non-expertannotations for natural language tasks.
In Proc.
ofthe Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing, p. 254?263.
Association for Com-putational Linguistics.R.
Swanson and A. S. Gordon.
2012.
Say anything:Using textual case-based reasoning to enable open-domain interactive storytelling.
ACM Transactions onInteractive Intelligent Systems (TiiS), 2(3):16.M.
A. Walker, G. Lin, and J. Sawyer.
2012b.
An anno-tated corpus of film dialogue for learning and charac-terizing character style.
In Language Resources andEvaluation Conference, LREC2012.P.
Welinder, S. Branson, S. Belongie, and P. Perona.2010.
The multidimensional wisdom of crowds.
InAdvances in Neural Information Processing Systems23, p. 2424?2432.Z.-M. Zhou, Y. Xu, Z.Y.
Niu, M. Lan, J. Su, , andC.
L. Tan.
2010.
Predicting discourse connectives forimplicit discourse relation recognition.
In In Coling2010: Posters, p. 1507?1514.379
