Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 1810?1815,October 25-29, 2014, Doha, Qatar.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Model of Individual Differences in Gaze Control During ReadingNiels Landwehr1and Sebastian Arzt1and Tobias Scheffer1and Reinhold Kliegl21Department of Computer Science, Universit?at PotsdamAugust-Bebel-Stra?e 89, 14482 Potsdam, Germany{landwehr, sarzt, scheffer}@cs.uni-potsdam.de2Department of Psychology, Universit?at PotsdamKarl-Liebknecht-Stra?e 24/25, 14476 Potsdam OT/Golmkliegl@uni-potsdam.deAbstractWe develop a statistical model of saccadiceye movements during reading of isolatedsentences.
The model is focused on rep-resenting individual differences betweenreaders and supports the inference of themost likely reader for a novel set of eyemovement patterns.
We empirically studythe model for biometric reader identifica-tion using eye-tracking data collected from20 individuals and observe that the modeldistinguishes between 20 readers with anaccuracy of up to 98%.1 IntroductionDuring skilled reading, the eyes of a reader donot move smoothly over a text.
Instead, read-ing proceeds by alternating between brief fixationson individual words and short ballistic movementscalled saccades that move the point of fixation to anew location.
Evidence in psychological researchindicates that patterns of fixations and saccades aredriven partly by low-level visual cues (e.g., wordlength), and partly by linguistic and cognitive pro-cessing of the text (Kliegl et al., 2006; Rayner,1998).Eye-movement patterns are frequently studiedin cognitive psychology as they provide a richand detailed record of the visual, oculomotor, andlinguistic processes involved in reading.
Com-putational models of eye-movement control de-veloped in psychology, such as SWIFT (Engbertet al., 2005; Schad and Engbert, 2012) or E-ZReader (Reichle et al., 1998; Reichle et al., 2012),simulate the generation of eye movements basedon physiological and psychological constraints re-lated to attention, visual perception, and the ocu-lomotor system.
Recently, the problem of mod-eling eye movements has also been approachedfrom a machine-learning perspective.
Matties andS?gaard (2013) and Hara et al.
(2012) study con-ditional random field models to predict whichwords in a text are fixated by a reader.
Nilssonand Nivre (2009) use a transition-based log-linearmodel to predict a sequence of fixations for a text.A central observation made by these studies, aswell as by earlier psychological work (Erdmannand Dodge, 1898; Huey, 1908), is that eye move-ment patterns vary significantly between individ-uals.
As one example of the strength of indi-vidual differences in reading eye movements, wecite Dixon (1951) who compared the reading pro-cesses of university professors and graduate stu-dents of physics, education, and history on read-ing material in their own and the two other fields.He did not find strong effects of his experimen-tal variables (i.e., field of research, expertise in re-search) but ?if there is one thing that this studyhas shown, it is that individual differences in read-ing skill existed among the subjects of all depart-ments.
Fast and slow readers were found in everydepartment, and the overlapping of distributionsfrom passage to passage was enormous?
(p. 173).Even though it is possible to predict across a largebase of readers with some accuracy whether spe-cific words will be fixated (Matties and S?gaard,2013), a strong variation between readers in at-tributes such as the fraction of skipped words andtotal number of saccades has been observed (Haraet al., 2012).Some recent work has studied eye movementpatterns as a biometric feature.
Most studies arebased on an artificial visual stimulus, such as amoving (Kasprowski and Ober, 2004; Komogort-sev et al., 2010; Rigas et al., 2012b; Zhang andJuhola, 2012) or fixed (Bednarik et al., 2005) doton a computer screen, or a specific image stimu-lus (Rigas et al., 2012a).
In the most common use1810case of biometric user identification, a decision onwhether access should be granted has to be madeafter performing some test that requires the user?sattention and therefore cannot take a long time.
Bycontrast, our work is motivated by a less intrusivescenario in which the user is monitored continu-ously during access to, for instance, a device ordocument.
When the accumulated evidence sup-ports the conclusion that the user is not authorized,access can be terminated or additional credentialsrequested.
In this use case, identification has tobe based on saccadic eye movements that occurwhile a user is reading an arbitrary text?as op-posed to movements that occur in response to afixed, controlled visual stimulus.
Holland and Ko-mogortsev (2012) study reader recognition basedon a set of aggregate features derived from eyemovements, irrespective of the text being read;their work will serve as reference in our empiri-cal study.The paper is organized as follows.
Section 2 de-tails the problem setting.
Section 3 introduces thestatistical model and discusses parameter estima-tion and inference.
Section 5 presents empiricalresults, Section 6 concludes.2 Problem Setting and NotationLet R denote a set of readers, andX = {X1, ...,Xn} a set of texts.
Each r ?
Rgenerates a set of eye movement patternsS(r)= {S(r)1, .
.
.
,S(r)n} on the set of texts X , byS(r)i?
p(S|Xi, r)where p(S|X, r) is a reader-specific distributionover eye movement patterns given a text X.
A pat-tern is a sequence S = ((s1, d1), .
.
.
, (sT, dT)) offixations, consisting of a fixation position st(posi-tion in text that was fixated) and duration dt?
R(length of fixation in milliseconds).
In our experi-ments, individual sentences are presented in a sin-gle line on a screen, thus we only model a hori-zontal gaze position st?
R.At test time, we observe novel eye move-ment patterns?S = {?S1, .
.
.
,?Sm} on a novel setof texts?X = {?X1, ...,?Xm} generated by an un-known reader r ?
R. The goal is to inferr?= arg maxr?Rp(r|?S,?X ).
(1)?20 ?10 0 10 2000.10.20.30.4AmplitudeDensityRefixationEmpirical DistributionGamma Fit?20 ?10 0 10 2000.10.2AmplitudeDensityNext Word MoveEmpirical DistributionGamma Fit?20 ?10 0 10 2000.050.10.15AmplitudeDensityForward SkipEmpirical DistributionGamma Fit?20 ?10 0 10 2000.050.10.150.2AmplitudeDensityRegressionEmpirical DistributionGamma FitFigure 1: Empirical distributions over amplitudesand Gamma fits for different saccade types.3 Statistical Model of Eye MovementsWe solve Problem 1 by estimating reader-specificmodels p(S|X;?r) for r ?
R, and solving forp(r|?S,?X ; ?)
?
(m?i=1p(?Si|?Xi;?r))p(r) (2)where all ?rare aggregated into a global model ?.Assuming a uniform prior p(r) over readers, thisreduces to predicting the reader r that maximizesthe likelihood p(?S|?X ;?r) =?mi=1p(?Si|?Xi;?r).We formulate a model p(S|X;?)
of a sequenceS of fixations given a text X.
The model definesa dynamic probabilistic process that successivelygenerates the fixation positions stand durations dtin S, reflecting how a reader generates a sequenceof saccades in response to a text stimulus X. Thejoint distribution over all fixation positions and du-rations is assumed to factorize asp(s1, .
.
.
, sT, d1, .
.
.
, dT|X;?
)= p(s1, d1|X;?
)T?1?t=1p(st+1, dt+1|st,X;?
).The conditional p(st+1, dt+1|st,X;?)
models thegeneration of the next fixation position and du-ration given the current fixation position st. Inthe psychological literature, four different sac-cadic types are distinguished: a reader can refix-ate the current word (refixation), fixate the nextword in the text (next word movement), move the1811fixation to a word after the next word (forwardskip), or regress to fixate a word occurring ear-lier than the currently fixated word in the text (re-gression) (Heister et al., 2012).
We observe em-pirically, that modeling the amplitude as a mixtureof four Gamma distributions matches the empiri-cal distribution of amplitudes in our data well?see Figure 1.
Modeling the amplitudes as a sin-gle distribution, instead of a mixture of four dis-tributions, results in a substantially lower out-of-sampling likelihood of the model.
Therefore,at each time t, the model first draws a saccadictype ut+1?
{1, 2, 3, 4} from a multinomial dis-tribution and then generates a saccade amplitudeat+1and fixation duration dt+1from type-specificGamma distributions.
Formally, the generativeprocess is given byut+1?
p(u|pi) = Mult(u|pi) (3)at+1?
p(a|ut+1, st,X;?)
(4)dt+1?
p(d|ut+1;?).
(5)Afterwards the model updates the fixation positionaccording to st+1= st+ at+1.
The joint param-eter vector ?
concatenates parameters of the indi-vidual distributions in Equations 3 to 5.
Figure 2shows a slice in the dynamical model.Given the current fixation position st, the textX, and the chosen saccadic type ut+1, the am-plitude is constrained to fall within a specificinterval?for instance, within the characters of thecurrently fixated word for refixations.
Therefore,we model the distribution over the saccade ampli-tude given the saccadic type (Equation 4) as trun-cated Gamma distributions, given by1G(x|[l, r];?, ?)
={G(x|?,?)?rlG(x?|?,?
)dx?if x ?
[l, r]0 otherwisewhere G(x|?, ?)
=1???(?)x?
?1e?x?is the Gamma distribution with shape parameter?
and scale parameter ?, and ?
is the Gammafunction.
For x ?
G(x|?, ?)
it holds thatG(x|[l, r];?, ?)
is the conditional distribution ofx given that x ?
[l, r].
The distribution over a sac-1The definition is straightforwardly generalized to opentruncation intervals.tu 1tu ?ta 1ta ?td 1td ?t 1t ?Xts 1ts ?Figure 2: Graphical model notation of a slice inthe dynamic model.
Parameters are omitted toavoid notational clutter.cade amplitude given the saccade type is given byp(a|ut+1= 1, st,X;?)
={?G(a|[0, r];?1, ?1) if a > 0(1?
?
)G(?a|[0, l]; ??1,?
?1) otherwise(6)where the parameter ?
reflects the probability fora forward saccade within a refixation, andp(a|ut+1= 2, st,X;?)
= G(a|[l+, r+];?2, ?2)p(a|ut+1= 3, st,X;?)
= G(a|(r+,?
);?3, ?3)p(a|ut+1= 4, st,X;?)
= G(?a|(?l,?
);?4, ?4).
(7)Here, the truncation intervals reflect the con-straints on the amplitude at+1given ut+1, standX.
Let wl(wr) denote the position of the left-most (right-most) character of the currently fix-ated word, and let w+l, w+rdenote these positionsfor the word following the currently fixated word.Then l = wl?
st, r = wr?
st, l+= w+l?
st,and r+= w+r?
st.
The parameter vector ?contains the parameters ?, ??1,?
?1and ?i, ?ifori ?
{2, 3, 4}.The distribution over fixation durations givensaccade type is modeled by a Gamma distributionp(d|ut+1;?)
= G(d|?ut+1, ?ut+1)with type-specific parameters ?u, ?uforu ?
{1, 2, 3, 4} that are concatenated into aparameter vector ?.It remains to specify the distribution over initialfixation positions and durations p(s1, d1|X;?
),which is given by additional Gamma distributionss1?
G(d|?0, ?0) d1?
G(d|?0, ?0)18120 10 20 30 40 50 60 7000.20.40.60.81number of training sentences nidentification accuracyAccuracy Over Training Sentences n (m=72)full modelsaccade type + amplitudesaccade type onlyHolland & K. (weighted)Holland & K. (unweighted)random guessing0 10 20 30 40 50 60 7000.20.40.60.81number of test sentences midentification accuracyAccuracy Over Test Sentences m (n=72)full modelsaccade type + amplitudesaccade type onlyHolland & K. (weighted)Holland & K. (unweighted)random guessingFigure 3: Reader identification accuracy as a function of the number of training sentences (left) and testsentences (right) read for different model variants.
Error bars indicate the standard error.where the parameters ?0, ?0, ?0, ?0are aggregatedinto the joint parameter vector ?.4 Parameter Estimation and InferenceGiven a set S(r)of eye movement observations forreader r ?
R on texts X , the MAP estimate of theparameters is?r= arg max?p(?|S(r),X )= arg max?(n?i=1p(S(r)i|Xi;?))p(?).
(8)A Dirichlet distribution (add-one smoothing) is anatural, conjugate prior for the multinomial distri-bution; we use uninformative priors for all otherdistributions.
The structure of the model impliesthat the posterior can be maximized by fitting theparameters pi to the observed saccadic types un-der the Dirichlet prior, and independently fittingthe distributions p(at|ut,X, st;?)
and p(dt|ut;?
)by maximum likelihood to the saccade amplitudesand durations observed for each saccade type.The resulting maximum likelihood problems areslightly non-standard in that we have to fit Gammadistributions that are truncated differently for eachdata point, depending on the textual content atthe position where the saccade occurs (see Equa-tions 6 and 7).
We solve the resulting optimizationproblems using a Quasi-Newton method.
To avoidoverfitting, we use a backoff-smoothing techniquefor p(at|ut,X, st;?)
and p(dt|ut;?
): we replacereader-specific parameter estimates by estimatesobtained from the corresponding data of all read-ers if the number of data points from which the dis-tributions are estimated falls below a cutoff value.The cutoff value is tuned by cross-validation onthe training data.At test time, we have to infer likelihoodsp(Si|X;?r) (Equation 2).
This is done by evalu-ating the multinomial and (truncated) Gamma dis-tributions in the model for the corresponding ob-servations and model parameters.5 Empirical StudyWe empirically study the proposed model and sev-eral baselines using eye-movement records of 20individuals (Heister et al., 2012).
For each indi-vidual, eye movements are recorded while read-ing each of the 144 sentences in the Potsdam Sen-tence Corpus (Kliegl et al., 2006).
The data setcontains fixation positions and durations that havebeen obtained from raw eye movement data byappropriate preprocessing.
Eye movements wererecorded with an EyeLink II system with a 500-Hz sampling rate (SR Research, Osgoode, On-tario, Canada).
All recordings and calibrationwere binocular.
We randomly sample disjointsets of n training sentences and m test sentencesfrom the set of 144 sentences.
Models are esti-mated on the eye movement records of individu-als on the training sentences (Equation 8).
Theeye-movement records of one individual on all testsentences constitute a test example; the model in-fers the most likely individual to have generatedthese test observations (Equation 2).
Identifica-tion accuracy is the fraction of times an individ-ual is correctly inferred; random guessing yieldsan accuracy of 0.05.
Results are averaged over 20training and test sets.We study the model introduced in Section 31813training sentences ntest sentences mAccuracy Over Training and Test Sentences0 20 40 60010203040506070accuracy00.20.40.60.810 5 10 15 200.50.60.70.80.91number of individualsidentification accuracyAccuracy Over Number of Individualsfull modelsaccade type + amplitudesaccade type onlyHolland & K. (weighted)Holland & K. (unweighted)Figure 4: Identification accuracy as a function of the number of training and test sentences read forfull model (left).
Identification accuracy as a function of the number of individuals that have to bedistinguished for different model variants (right).
Error bars indicate the standard error.
(full model), a model variant in which the variabledt+1and corresponding distribution is removed(saccade type + amplitude), and a simple modelthat only fits a multinomial distribution to saccadetypes (saccade type only).
Additionally, we com-pare against the feature-based reader identificationapproach by Holland & Komogortsev (2012).
Sixof the 14 features used by Holland & Komogort-sev depend on saccade velocities and vertical fix-ation positions.
As this information was not avail-able in the preprocessed data set that we used, weimplemented the remaining features.
There is ex-tensive empirical evidence that saccade velocityscales with saccade amplitude.
Specifically, therelationship between logarithmic peak saccade ve-locity and logarithmic saccade amplitude is lin-ear over a wide range of amplitudes and veloci-ties; this is known as the main sequence relation-ship (Bahill et al., 1975).
Therefore, we do not ex-pect that adding saccade velocities would dramat-ically affect performance of this baseline.
Holland& Komogortsev employ a weighted combinationof features; we report results for the method withand without feature weighting.Figure 3 shows identification accuracy as afunction of the number n of training sentencesused to estimate model parameters (left) and asa function of the number m of test sentences onwhich inference of the most likely reader is based(right, cf.
Equation 2).
The full model achievesup to 98.25% accuracy, significantly outperform-ing the Holland & Komogortsev (2012) baseline(91.25%, without feature weighting) and simplermodel variants.
All methods perform much betterthan random guessing.
Figure 4 (left) shows iden-tification accuracy as a function of both trainingsize n and test size m for the full model.We finally study how identification accuracychanges with the number of individuals that haveto be distinguished.
To this end, we perform thesame study as above, but with randomly sampledsubsets of the overall set of 20 individuals.
In theseexperiments, we average over 50 random train-testsplits.
Figure 4 (right) shows identification ac-curacy as a function of the number of individu-als.
We observe that identification accuracy dropswith the number of individuals for all methods;our model consistently outperforms the baselines.6 ConclusionsWe have developed a model of individual differ-ences in eye movements during reading, and stud-ied its application in a biometric task.
At test time,individuals are identified based on eye movementson novel text.
Our approach thus provides poten-tially unobtrusive biometric identification withoutrequiring users to react to a specific stimulus.
Em-pirical results show clear advantages over an exist-ing approach for reader identification.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank Christoph Sawade for in-sightful discussions and help with the eye move-ment data.
We gratefully acknowledge supportfrom the German Research Foundation (DFG),grant LA 3270/1-1.1814ReferencesA.
Terry Bahill, Michael R. Clark, and Lawrence Stark.1975.
The main sequence: a tool for studying hu-man eye movements.
Mathematical Biosciences,24:191?204.Roman Bednarik, Tomi Kinnunen, Andrei Mihaila, andPasi Fr?anti.
2005.
Eye-movements as a biometric.In Proceedings of the 14th Scandinavian Conferenceon Image Analysis.W.
Robert Dixon.
1951.
Studies in the psychology ofreading.
In W. S. Morse, P. A. Ballantine, and W. R.Dixon, editors, Univ.
of Michigan Monographs inEducation No.
4.
Univ.
of Michigan Press.Ralf Engbert, Antje Nuthmann, Eike M. Richter, andReinhold Kliegl.
2005.
SWIFT: A dynamicalmodel of saccade generation during reading.
Psy-chological Review, 112(4):777?813.Bruno Erdmann and Raymond Dodge.
1898.
Psy-chologische Untersuchungen ?uber das Lesen.
Halle:Max Niemeyer.Tadayoshi Hara, Daichi Mochihashi, Yoshino Kano,and Akiko Aizawa.
2012.
Predicting word fixationsin text with a CRF model for capturing general read-ing strategies among readers.
In Proceedings of theFirst Workshop on Eye-Tracking and Natural Lan-guage Processing.Julian Heister, Kay-Michael W?urzner, and ReinholdKliegl.
2012.
Analysing large datasets of eye move-ments during reading.
In James S. Adelman, editor,Visual word recognition.
Vol.
2: Meaning and con-text, individuals and development, pages 102?130.Corey Holland and Oleg V. Komogortsev.
2012.
Bio-metric identification via eye movement scanpaths inreading.
In Proceedings of the 2011 InternationalJoint Conference on Biometrics.Edmund B. Huey.
1908.
The psychology and peda-gogy of reading.
Cambridge, Mass.
: MIT Press.Pawel Kasprowski and Jozef Ober.
2004.
Eye move-ments in biometrics.
In Proceedings of the 2004 In-ternational Biometric Authentication Workshop.Reinhold Kliegl, Antje Nuthmann, and Ralf Engbert.2006.
Tracking the mind during reading: The in-fluence of past, present, and future words on fix-ation durations.
Journal of Experimental Psychol-ogy: General, 135(1):12?35.Oleg V. Komogortsev, Sampath Jayarathna, Cecilia R.Aragon, and Mechehoul Mahmoud.
2010.
Biomet-ric identification via an oculomotor plant mathemat-ical model.
In Proceedings of the 2010 Symposiumon Eye-Tracking Research & Applications.Franz Matties and Anders S?gaard.
2013.
With blink-ers on: robust prediction of eye movements acrossreaders.
In Proceedings of the 2013 Conference onEmpirical Natural Language Processing.Mattias Nilsson and Joakim Nivre.
2009.
Learningwhere to look: Modeling eye movements in reading.In Proceedings of the 13th Conference on Computa-tional Natural Language Learning.Keith Rayner.
1998.
Eye movements in reading andinformation processing: 20 years of research.
Psy-chological Bulletin, 124(3):372?422.Erik D. Reichle, Tessa Warren, and Kerry McConnell.2012.
Using e-z reader to model the effects ofhigher-level language processing on eye movementsduring reading.
Psychonomic Bulletin & Review,16(1):1?21.Ioannis Rigas, George Economou, and Spiros Fotopou-los.
2012a.
Biometric identification based onthe eye movements and graph matching techniques.Pattern Recognition Letters, 33(6).Ioannis Rigas, George Economou, and Spiros Fotopou-los.
2012b.
Human eye movements as a trait for bio-metrical identification.
In Proceedings of the IEEE5th International Conference on Biometrics: The-ory, Applications and Systems.Daniel Schad and Ralf Engbert.
2012.
The zoom lensof attention: Simulating shuffled versus normal textreading using the swift model.
Visual Cognition,20(4-5):391?421.Youming Zhang and Martti Juhola.
2012.
On biomet-ric verification of a user by means of eye movementdata mining.
In Proceedings of the 2nd Interna-tional Conference on Advances in Information Min-ing and Management.1815
