Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 1930?1936,October 25-29, 2014, Doha, Qatar.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsCTPs: Contextual Temporal Profiles for Time Scoping Facts usingState Change DetectionDerry Tanti WijayaCarnegie Mellon University5000 Forbes AvenuePittsburgh, PA, 15213dwijaya@cs.cmu.eduNdapandula NakasholeCarnegie Mellon University5000 Forbes AvenuePittsburgh, PA, 15213ndapa@cs.cmu.eduTom M. MitchellCarnegie Mellon University5000 Forbes AvenuePittsburgh, PA, 15213tom.mitchell@cs.cmu.eduAbstractTemporal scope adds a time dimension tofacts in Knowledge Bases (KBs).
Thesetime scopes specify the time periods whena given fact was valid in real life.
With-out temporal scope, many facts are under-specified, reducing the usefulness of thedata for upper level applications such asQuestion Answering.
Existing methodsfor temporal scope inference and extrac-tion still suffer from low accuracy.
In thispaper, we present a new method that lever-ages temporal profiles augmented withcontext?
Contextual Temporal Profiles(CTPs) of entities.
Through change pat-terns in an entity?s CTP, we model the en-tity?s state change brought about by realworld events that happen to the entity (e.g,hired, fired, divorced, etc.).
This leads toa new formulation of the temporal scopingproblem as a state change detection prob-lem.
Our experiments show that this for-mulation of the problem, and the resultingsolution are highly effective for inferringtemporal scope of facts.1 IntroductionRecent years have seen the emergence of largeKnowledge Bases (KBs) of facts (Carlson 2010;Auer 2007; Bollacker 2008; Suchanek 2007).While the wealth of accumulated facts is huge,most KBs are still sparsely populated in terms oftemporal scope.
Time information is an importantdimension in KBs because knowledge is not static,it changes over time: people get divorced; coun-tries elect new leaders; and athletes change teams.This means that facts are not always indefinitelytrue.
Therefore, temporal scope has crucial impli-cations for KB accuracy.Figure 1: Behavior patterns of context uni-gramsfor the US presidency state change as seen in theGoogle Books N-grams corpus: the rise of ?elect?,immediately followed by the rise of ?administra-tion?
and ?president?.Towards bridging the time gap in KBs, wepropose a new method for temporal scope infer-ence.
Our method is based on leveraging aggre-gate statistics from a time-stamped corpus.
Firstwe generate Contextual Temporal Profiles (CTPs)of entities from contexts surrounding mentions ofthese entities in the corpus.
We then detect changepatterns in the CTPs.
We then use these changesto determine when a given entity undergoes a spe-cific state change caused by real world events.
Ourmain insight is as follows: events that happen toan entity change the entity?s state and therefore itsfacts.
Thus by learning when a given entity under-goes a specific state change, we can directly inferthe time scopes of its facts.
For example, in the di-vorce event, the person?s state changes from ?mar-ried?
to ?divorced?
hence the hasSpouse relationno longer applies to it, signaling the end time ofits current hasSpouse value.
In a country electionevent, the country?s state changes and it obtains anew value for its hasPresident relation.1930Our method involves learning context units(uni-grams and bi-grams surrounding mentions ofan entity) that are relevant to a given state change.For this we use a few seed examples of entities thathave gone through the state change.
For example,for the US presidency state change denoting thebeginning of a US presidency, given seed exam-ples such as (Richard Nixon, 1969) and (JimmyCarter, 1977), relevant context units include uni-grams such as ?administration?
and ?elect?, whichare common to both CTPs in 1969 and 1977 re-spectively.
Secondly, we learn the mention behav-ior of these context units for an entity undergoinga given state change (section 3 has more details).Figure 1 shows a motivating example, we see thebehavior patterns of context uni-grams for the USpresidency state change: the rise of ?elect?
at thebeginning of presidencies, immediately followedby the rise of ?administration?
and ?president?
inthe context of the entities, Nixon and Carter.2 Related workPrior work mainly falls into two categories: i)methods that extract temporal scope from text,at the time of fact extraction; ii) methods thatinfer temporal scope from aggregate statistics inlarge Web corpora.
Early methods mostly fallunder category i); Timely YAGO (Wang 2010),TIE (Ling 2010), and PRAVDA (Wang 2011) arethree such methods.
Timely YAGO applies regu-lar expressions to Wikipedia infoboxes to extracttime scopes.
It is therefore not applicable to anyother corpora but Wikipedia.
The TIE (Ling 2010)system produces a maximal set of events and theirtemporal relations based on the text of a given sen-tence.
PRAVDA uses textual patterns along witha graph-based re-ranking method.
Methods fallingunder category i) have the downside that it is un-clear how they can be applied to facts that are al-ready in the knowledge base.
Only one other ap-proach learned time scopes from aggregate cor-pus statistics, a recent system called CoTS (Taluk-dar 2012b).
CoTS uses temporal profiles of factsand how the mentions of such facts rise and fallover time.
However, CoTS is based on frequencycounts of fact mentions and does not take into ac-count state change inducing context.
For exam-ple, to find the time scope of Nixon presidency,CoTS uses the rise and fall of the mention ?nixon?and ?president?
over time.
To improve accuracy,CoTS combined this frequency signal with manu-ally supplied constraints such as the functionalityof the US presidency relation to scope the begin-ning and end of Nixon presidency.
In contrast, theproposed system does not require constraints as in-put.There have also been tools and competitionsdeveloped to facilitate temporal scope extraction.TARSQI (Verhagen 2005) is a tool for automat-ically annotating time expressions in text.
TheTempEval (Verhagen 2007) challenge has led toa number of works on temporal relation extrac-tion (Puscasu 2007; Yoshikawa 2009; Bethard2007).3 MethodGiven an entity and its Contextual Temporal Pro-file (CTP), we can learn when such an entity un-dergoes a specific state change.
We can then di-rectly infer the begin or end time of the fact asso-ciated with the state change.The CTP of an entity at a given time point t con-tains the context within which the entity is men-tioned at that time.
Our method is based on tworelated insights: i) the context of the entity at timet reflects the events happening to the entity andthe state of the entity at time t. ii) the differ-ence in context before, at time t ?
1, and after, attime t, reflect the associated state change at timet.
However an entity can undergo a multiplicity ofchanges at the same time.
Thus both the contextsand the differences in contexts can contain infor-mation pertaining to several state changes.
Wetherefore need a way of determining which partof the context is relevant to a given state changesci.
To this end, we generate what we refer to asan aggregate state vector, V s(e, sci) for a hypo-thetical average entity e undergoing state changesci.
We generate V s(e, sci) from the CTPs of aseed set of entities at the time they undergo statechange sci.3.1 Learning State and State Change VectorsTo build CTPs for entities, we use two time-stamped corpora: the Google Books Ngram cor-pus (Michel 2011); and the English Gigaword(Graff 2003) corpus.
The Google Books Ngramcorpus contains n-grams for n = 1?5; along withoccurrence statistics from over about 5 milliondigitized books.
The English Gigaword (Graff19312003) corpus contains newswire text from 1994-2008.
From these corpora, we use the time granu-larity of a year as it is the finest granularity com-mon to both corpora.Definition 1 (Contextual Temporal Profile)The Contextual Temporal Profile (CTP) of anentity e at time t, Ce(t), consists of the contextwithin which e is mentioned.
Specifically Ce(t)consists of uni-grams and bi-grams generatedfrom the 5-grams(Google Books Ngram) orsentences (Gigaword) that mention e at time t.Notice that the CTPs can contain context units(bi-grams or uni-grams) that are simply noise.
Tofilter the noise, we compute tf-idf statistics foreach contextual unit and only retain the top k rank-ing units in Ce(t).
In our experiments, we usedk = 100.
We compute tf-idf by treating each timeunit t as a document containing words that occurin the context of e (Wijaya 2011).Furthermore, CTPs may contain context unitsattributed to several state changes.
We thereforetease apart the CTPs to isolate contexts specificto a given state change.
For this, our methodtakes as input a small set of seed entities, S(sci),for each type of state change.
Thus for the USpresidency state change that denotes the begin-ning of a US presidency, we would have seeds asfollows: (Richard Nixon, 1969), (Jimmy Carter,1977).
From the CTPs of the seeds for statechange sci, we generate an aggregate state vector,V s(e, sci).
To obtain the few dozen seeds requiredby our method, one can leverage semi-structuredsources such as Wikipedia infoboxes, where rela-tions e.g., spouse often have time information.Definition 2 ( Aggregate State Vector for e)The aggregate state vector of a mean entitye for state change sci, V s(e, sci), is madeup of the contextual units from the CTPs ofentities in the seed set S(sci) that undergostate change sci.
Thus, we have: V s(e, sci) =1|S(sci)|?e,t:(e,t)?S(sci)Ce(t).Thus, the state vector V s(e, sci) reflects eventshappening to e and the state of e at the time itundergoes the state change sci.
Additionally, wecompute another type of aggregate vector, aggre-gate change vector 4V s(e, sci) to capture thechange patterns in the context units of e. Recallthat context units rise or fall due to state change,as seen earlier in Figure 1.Definition 3 ( Aggregate Change Vector for e)The aggregate change vector of a mean entity efor state change sci, 4V s(e, sci), is made up ofthe change in the contextual units of the CTPsof entities in the seed set S(sci) that undergostate change sci.
Thus, we have: 4V s(e, sci) =1|S(sci)|?e,t:(e,t)?S(sci)Ce(t)?
Ce(t?
1).The aggregate state vector V s(e, sci) and theaggregate change vector 4V s(e, sci) are thenused to detect state changes.3.2 Detecting State ChangesTo detect state changes in a previously unseen en-tity enew, we generate its state vector, Cenew(t),and its change vector, 4Cenew(t) = Cenew(t) -Cenew(t ?
1), for every time point t. We considerevery time point t in the CTP of the new entity tobe a candidate for a given state change sci, whichwe seek to determine whether enewgoes throughand at which time point.
We then compare thestate vector and change vector of every candidatetime point t to the aggregate state and aggregatechange vector of state change sci.
We use cosinesimilarity to measure similarities between the statevector and the aggregate state vector and betweenthe change vector and the aggregate change vector.To combine these two vector similarities, we sumthe state vector and change vector similarities.
Infuture we can explore cross validation and a sepa-rate development set to define a weighted sum forcombining these two similarities.The highest ranking candidate time point (mostsimilar to the aggregate state and aggregate changevector) is then considered to be the start of statechange scifor the new entity enew.4 ExperimentsWe carried out experiments to answer the fol-lowing questions: Is treating temporal scopingas state change detection in Contextual TemporalProfiles(CTPs) effective?
Do CTPs help improvetemporal scope extraction over context-unawaretemporal profiles?4.1 Methods under ComparisonWe answer these questions by comparing to thefollowing methods.1.
CoTS a state-of-the-art temporal scopingsystem (Talukdar 2012b)19322.
MaxEnt a baseline to which CoTS was com-pared.
It is a Maximum Entropy classifiertrained separately for each relation using nor-malized counts and gradients of facts as fea-tures.
An Integer Linear Program (ILP) isused to predict which facts are active at whichtimes.
This is done based on the output ofthe MAXENT classifier together with tem-poral intra-relation constraints that regulatethe temporal scoping of one or more fac-sts from a single relation (e.g., FUNCTIONALconstraints on US President relation that reg-ulate that at most one fact from the relationcan be true at any given time i.e., there is onlyone US President at any given time).3.
MaxEnt + Intra Relation ConstraintsMaxEnt with cross relation constraintsadded: constraints that couple facts frommultiple relations e.g., a constraint that AlGore?s vice presidency is aligned exactlywith Bill Clinton?s presidency.We evaluate on the same set of facts as CoTSand its baselines: facts from the US Administra-tion domain ( US President, US Vice President,and US Secretary of State); and facts from theAcademy Awards domain (Best Director and BestPicture).
The number of facts per relation are asfollows: US President, 9; US Vice President, 12;US Secretary of State, 13; Best Director, 14; andBest Picture, 14.
Our method however is not spe-cific to these relations from these two domains.Since our method does not depend on temporalconstraints, the method can work a very differentdomain, for example one where many facts can ex-ist for any time span without being superseded byanother, as long as the entities involved experiencea change of state.
Thus, it can be applied to re-lations like spouse, even though many people aremarried in a year as these people change state fromsingle or engaged to married.Similar to CoTS, the datasets from which theCTPs were generated are as follows: The GoogleBooks Ngram (1960-2008) dataset (Michel 2011)for the US Administration domain and the En-glish Gigaword (1994-2008) dataset (Graff 2003)for Academy Award domain.Figure 2: Precision @ k using Contextual Tempo-ral Profiles.Figure 3: Comparison of F1 scores with CoTS andother baselines.4.2 CTPs Begin time precisionTo compute precision we used cross validation,in particular, leave-one-out cross validation due tothe small number of facts per relation.We predictthe begin time of each fact, the time the fact startsto be valid.
True begin times were determined bya human annotator.
This human annotated dataformed the gold-standard which we used to deter-mine Precision (P), Recall (R), and the F1 mea-sure.
All evaluations were performed at the yearlevel, the finest granularity common to the twotime-stamped datasets.For our first experiment, we report the aver-age precision@k, where k=1 to n, where n=47 isthe number of years between 1960 to 2008 to se-lect from.
As can be seen in Figure 2, precisionquickly reaches 1 for most relations.
The true be-gin time is usually found within top k=5 results.19334.3 Comparison to baselinesFor our second experiment, we compared to the F1scores of CoTS and other baselines in (Talukdar2012b).
As can be seen in Figure 3, our CTPs ap-proach gives comparable or better F1 (@k=1) thansystems that use only plain temporal profiles, evenwhen these systems are supplemented with manycarefully crafted, hand-specified constraints.We note that the performance on the US Secre-tary of State relation is low in both CoTS (Taluk-dar 2012b) and in our approach.
We found that thiswas due to few documents mentioning the ?sec-retary of state?
in Google Books Ngram dataset.This leads to weak signals for predicting the tem-poral scope of secretary of state appointments.We also observe that the uni-grams and bi-grams in the train CTPs and change vectors reflectmeaningful events and state changes happening tothe entities (Table 1).
For example, after ?becom-ing president?
and ?taking office?, US presidentsoften see a drop in mentions of their previous (jobtitle state) such as ?senator?, ?governor?
or ?vicepresident?
as they gain the?president?
state.4.4 DiscussionOverall, our results show that our method ispromising for detecting begin time of facts.
In itscurrent state, our method performs poorly on in-ferring end times as contexts relevant to a fact of-ten still mentioned with the entity even after thefact ceases to be valid.
For example, the entityAl Gore is still mentioned a lot with the bi-gram?vice president?
even after he is no longer a vicepresident.
Prior work, CoTS, inferred end timesby leveraging manually specified constraints, e.g.,that there can only be one vice president at a time:the beginning of one signals the end of another(Talukdar 2012b).
However such methods do notscale due to the amount of constraints that must behand-specified.
In future, we would like to inves-tigate how to better detect the end times of facts.5 ConclusionThis paper presented a new approach for inferringtemporal scopes of facts.
Our approach is to re-formulate temporal scoping as a state change de-tection problem.
To this end, we introduced Con-textual Temporal Profiles (CTPs) which are entitytemporal profiles enriched with relevant context.Relation CTP StateContextUnigrams and Bigramsin CTP Change VectorsUS President waselected,took office,becamepresidentvice president (-), bypresident (+), adminis-tration (+), senator (-),governor (-), candidate(-)Best Picture nominatedfor, towin, wonthe, wasnominatedbest picture (+), hourminute (-), academyaward (+), oscar (+),nominated (+), won (+),star (-), best actress (+),best actor (+), best sup-porting (+)Table 1: Example behavior of various contex-tual units (unigrams and bigrams) automaticallylearned in the train CTPs and change vector.
The(+) and (-) signs indicate rise and fall in mentionfrequency, respectively.From the CTPs, we learned change vectors that re-flect change patterns in context units of CTPs.
Ourexperiments showed that the change patterns arehighly relevant for detecting state change, whichis an effective way of identifying begin times offacts.
For future work, we would like to investi-gate how our method can be improved to dp betterat detecting fact end times.
We also would like toinvestigate time-stamped corpora of finer-grainedgranularity such as day.
This information can beobtained by subscribing to daily newsfeeds of spe-cific entities.AcknowledgmentsWe thank members of the NELL team at CMUfor their helpful comments.
This research wassupported by DARPA under contract numberFA8750-13-2-0005 and in part by Fulbright andGoogle Anita Borg Memorial Scholarship.ReferencesA.
Angel, N. Koudas, N. Sarkas, D. Srivastava:Dense Subgraph Maintenance under StreamingEdge Weight Updates for Real-time Story Identi-fication.
In Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment,PVLDB 5(10):574?585, 2012.S.
Auer, C. Bizer, G. Kobilarov, J. Lehmann, R. Cyga-niak, Z.G.
Ives: DBpedia: A Nucleus for a Web ofOpen Data.
In Proceedings of the 6th InternationalSemantic Web Conference (ISWC), pages 722?735,Busan, Korea, 2007.M.
Banko, M. J. Cafarella, S. Soderland, M. Broad-head, O. Etzioni: Open Information Extraction from1934the Web.
In Proceedings of the 20th InternationalJoint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI),pages 2670?2676, Hyderabad, India, 2007.S.
Bethard and J.H.
Martin.
Cu-tmp: Temporal relationclassification using syntactic and semantic features.In In SemEval-2007, 2007.K.
D. Bollacker, C. Evans, P. Paritosh, T. Sturge, J.Taylor: Freebase: a Collaboratively Created GraphDatabase for Structuring Human Knowledge.
InProceedings of the ACM SIGMOD InternationalConference on Management of Data (SIGMOD),pages, 1247-1250, Vancouver, BC, Canada, 2008.A.
Carlson, J. Betteridge, R.C.
Wang, E.R.
Hruschka,T.M.
Mitchell: Coupled Semi-supervised Learningfor Information Extraction.
In Proceedings of theThird International Conference on Web Search andWeb Data Mining (WSDM), pages 101?110, NewYork, NY, USA, 2010.A.
Carlson, J. Betteridge, B. Kisiel, B.
Settles, E. R.Hruschka Jr., T. M. Mitchell: Toward an Architec-ture for Never-Ending Language Learning.
In Pro-ceedings of the Twenty-Fourth AAAI Conference onArtificial Intelligence (AAAI) 2010.L.
Del Corro, R. Gemulla: ClausIE: clause-basedopen information extraction.
In Proceedings of the22nd International Conference on World Wide Web(WWW), pages 355-366.
2013.A.
Das Sarma, A. Jain, C. Yu: Dynamic Relationshipand Event Discovery.
In Proceedings of the ForthInternational Conference on Web Search and WebData Mining (WSDM), pages 207?216, Hong Kong,China, 2011.A.
Fader, S. Soderland, O. Etzioni: Identifying Rela-tions for Open Information Extraction.
In Proceed-ings of the 2011 Conference on Empirical Methodsin Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages1535?1545, Edinburgh, UK, 2011.D.
Graff, J. Kong, K. Chen, and K. Maeda.
English gi-gaword.
Linguistic Data Consortium, Philadelphia,2003.C.
Havasi, R. Speer, J. Alonso.
ConceptNet 3: a Flex-ible, Multilingual Semantic Network for CommonSense Knowledge.
In Proceedings of the Recent Ad-vances in Natural Language Processing (RANLP),Borovets, Bulgaria, 2007.J.
Hoffart, F. Suchanek, K. Berberich, E. Lewis-Kelham, G. de Melo, G. Weikum: YAGO2: Ex-ploring and Querying World Knowledge in Time,Space, Context, and Many Languages.
In Proceed-ings of the 20th International Conference on WorldWide Web (WWW), pages 229?232, Hyderabad, In-dia.
2011.X.
Ling and D.S.
Weld.
Temporal information extrac-tion.
In Proceedings of AAAI, 2010.Jean-Baptiste Michel, Yuan Kui Shen, Aviva PresserAiden, Adrian Veres, Matthew K. Gray, The GoogleBooks Team, Joseph P. Pickett, Dale Holberg, DanClancy, Peter Norvig, Jon Orwant, Steven Pinker,Martin A. Nowak, Erez Lieberman Aiden: Quantita-tive Analysis of Culture Using Millions of DigitizedBooks.
Science, 331(6014):176182.N.
Nakashole, M. Theobald, G. Weikum: ScalableKnowledge Harvesting with High Precision andHigh Recall.
In Proceedings of the 4th InternationalConference on Web Search and Web Data Mining(WSDM), pages 227?326, Hong Kong, China, 2011.N.
Nakashole, T. Tylenda, G. Weikum: Fine-grainedSemantic Typing of Emerging Entities.
In Proceed-ings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics (ACL), pp.
1488-1497, 2013.N.Nakahsole, T. M. Mitchell: Language-Aware TruthAssessment of Fact Candidates In Proceedings ofthe 52nd Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL), pp.
1009-1019,2014.G.
Puscasu.
Wvali: Temporal relation identification bysyntactico-semantic analysis.
In Proceedings of the4th International Workshop on SemEval, 2007.J.
Pustejovsky, J. Castano, R. Ingria, R. Sauri, RGaizauskas, A. Setzer, G. Katz, and D. Radev.Timeml: Robust specification of event and temporalexpressions in text.
In Fifth International Workshopon Computational Semantics, 2003.P.
P. Talukdar, D. T. Wijaya, Tom M. Mitchell: Acquir-ing temporal constraints between relations.
In Pro-ceeding of the 21st ACM International Conferenceon Information and Knowledge Management, pages992-1001, CIKM 2012.P.
P. Talukdar, D. T. Wijaya, T. Mitchell: Coupledtemporal scoping of relational facts.
In Proceedingsof the fifth ACM international conference on Websearch and data mining.
ACM, 2012.M.
Verhagen, I. Mani, R. Sauri, R. Knippen, S.B.
Jang,J.
Littman, A. Rumshisky, J. Phillips, and J. Puste-jovsky.
Automating temporal annotation with tarsqi.In Proceedings of the ACL Session on Interactiveposter and demonstration sessions, 2005.M.
Verhagen, R. Gaizauskas, F. Schilder, M. Hepple,G.
Katz, and J. Pustejovsky.
Semeval-2007 task 15:Tempeval temporal relation identication.
In Proceedings of the 4th International Work-shop on Semantic Evaluations, 2007.D.
T. Wijaya, and R. Yeniterzi: Understanding seman-tic change of words over centuries.
In Proceedingsof the 2011 international workshop on DETectingand Exploiting Cultural diversiTy on the social web.ACM, 2011.1935F.
M. Suchanek, G. Kasneci, G. Weikum: Yago: aCore of Semantic Knowledge.
In Proceedings of the16th International Conference on World Wide Web(WWW) pages, 697-706, Banff, Alberta, Canada,2007.Y.
Wang, M. Zhu, L. Qu, M. Spaniol, and G. Weikum:Timely yago: harvesting, querying, and visualizingtemporal knowledge from wikipedia.
In Proceedingsof the 13th International Conference on Extending-Database Technology, 2010.W.
Wu, H. Li, H. Wang, K. Zhu: Probase: AProbabilistic Taxonomy for Text Understanding.
InProceedings of the International Conference onManagement of Data (SIGMOD), pages 481?492,Scottsdale, AZ, USA, 2012.Y.
Wang, B. Yang, L. Qu, M. Spaniol, and G. Weikum:Harvesting facts from textual web sources by con-strained label propagation.
In Proceedings of CIKM,2011.K.
Yoshikawa, S. Riedel, M. Asahara, and Y. Mat-sumoto.
Jointly identifying temporal relations withmarkov logic.
In Proceedings of ACL, 2009.1936
