Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 1459?1464,October 25-29, 2014, Doha, Qatar.
c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsIntrinsic Plagiarism Detection using N-gram ClassesImene BensalemMISC LabConstantine 2 University,Algeriabens.imene@gmail.comPaolo RossoNLE LabPRHLT Research CenterUniversitat Polit?cnica deVal?ncia, Spainprosso@dsic.upv.esSalim ChikhiMISC LabConstantine 2 University,Algeriaslchikhi@yahoo.comAbstractWhen it is not possible to compare the suspi-cious document to the source document(s)plagiarism has been committed from, the evi-dence of plagiarism has to be looked for in-trinsically in the document itself.
In this pa-per, we introduce a novel language-independent intrinsic plagiarism detectionmethod which is based on a new text repre-sentation that we called n-gram classes.
Theproposed method was evaluated on three pub-licly available standard corpora.
The obtainedresults are comparable to the ones obtainedby the best state-of-the-art methods.1 Introduction and Related WorksIntrinsic plagiarism detection is an essentialalternative in situations where the plagiarismsource does not have a digital version, e.g.
an oldbook, or the plagiarized text was directly writtenby another author without copying from anysource, e.g.
the case of a student who askedsomeone else to write for him parts of his essayor thesis.
Hence, the task of detecting plagiarismintrinsically is to identify, in the given suspiciousdocument, the fragments that are not consistentwith the rest of the text in terms of writing style.The automatic analysis of the writing style isan important component of many NLP applica-tions.
For some of them, when analyzing thestyle, a document is considered as a whole,which is the case of the authorship identification(Stamatatos, 2009a) and the authorship verifica-tion (Koppel and Seidman, 2013).
For other ap-plications, a document is perceived as a set offragments, for each of them the writing styleneeds to be analyzed individually.
Examples ofsuch applications include: paragraph authorshipclustering (Brooke and Hirst, 2012), authorialsegmentation of multi-author documents (Akivaand Koppel, 2013), detection of stylistic incon-sistencies between consecutive paragraphs(Graham et al., 2005) and plagiarism directionidentification (Grozea and Popescu, 2010).For intrinsic plagiarism detection, it is crucialto analyze the writing style at fragments level.However, the majority of methods tend to ana-lyze the whole document writing style as well.Indeed, intrinsic plagiarism detection puts to-gether, in one research problem, many difficul-ties that are not present, or present separately, inthe aforementioned related problems.
Its maindifficulties are listed below.In contrast to multi-author documents relatedproblems, the number of authors in the suspi-cious documents is unknown, i.e., it might be oneauthor if the document is plagiarism-free ormany unknown authors if it contains plagiarism.Unlike the authorship attribution and verifica-tion, where the examined text and the potentialauthor text are separate (and hence their writingstyles could be readily characterized and com-pared), these two parts are both merged in thesame document with unknown boundaries.
Fur-thermore, the plagiarized fragments in a suspi-cious document might stem from different au-thors, which renders the computational characte-rization of plagiarism difficult.As opposed to the problem of authorship clus-tering, where the task is merely to attribute al-ready defined fragments of a given document todifferent authors, the segmentation is a crucialand inevitable task in a real scenario of intrinsicplagiarism detection.
Indeed, a granular segmen-tation may lead to an undependable style analy-sis, and a coarse segmentation may prevent theidentification of the short plagiarized texts.Due to the aforementioned difficulties, intrin-sic plagiarism detection is still a challenging1459problem.
This is evidenced by the still low per-formance scores of the majority of methods1.
Tothe best of our knowledge, just two methods,namely Stamatatos (2009b) and Oberreuter et al.
(2011), reached an f-measure greater than 0.30on a standardized corpus.
Other methods, forinstance (Stein et al., 2011) and (Tschuggnalland Specht, 2013), obtained better performancescores.
Nonetheless, they have been evaluated ononly selected documents from the whole standar-dized evaluation corpus which makes their re-sults not comparable to the others.Although the writing style analysis is an oldresearch area and has been applied successfullyto solve many problems, notably authorship at-tribution, it is obvious that its application to iden-tify the plagiarized fragments still needs to beinvestigated further.
In this paper, we addressthis research problem by proposing a novel wayof quantifying the writing style that we called n-gram classes.
We show that our method, which issupervised classification-based, is able to discri-minate between the plagiarized and the originaltext fragments with a performance comparable tothe best state-of-the-art methods despite it uses asmall number of features when building the clas-sification model.The remainder of the paper is organized as fol-lows.
Section 2 presents our motivation.
Sections3 and 4 present the new features and the pro-posed method.
Section 5 provides the evaluationresults.
Finally, Section 6 draws our conclusions.2 MotivationThe idea of our method is inspired by the workof Grozea and Popescu (2010), in the context ofplagiarism direction identification.
They reportedthat the character 8-grams of a plagiarized textfragment are more frequent in the source docu-ment (because the author is the same) than in theplagiarized document.
Thus, we believe that, it ispossible to distinguish the plagiarized fragmentsfrom the original ones on the basis of the fre-quency of their character n-grams in the suspi-cious document.
That is, if many of the charactern-grams of a fragment are infrequent in the doc-ument, it would be probably a plagiarized frag-ment.
However, if many of them are frequent,then the fragment is likely to be original.On the other hand, according to the authorshipattribution researches, character n-grams are a1 See for instance PAN workshop (http://pan.webis.de) se-ries, from 2007 to 2012, where several papers on intrinsicplagiarism detection have been published.powerful tool for characterizing the writing style(Stamatatos, 2009a).
Moreover, they have beenused in one of the best intrinsic plagiarism detec-tion methods (Stamatatos, 2009b).Generally, in n-gram based methods the text isrepresented by a vector of n-grams with theirfrequencies.
The shortcoming of this text repre-sentation is the increase of its size with the in-crease of the text or the n-gram length.Our method proposes a novel way of usingcharacter n-grams 2  for text representation.
Theidea is to represent the fragments of the suspi-cious document in a reduced vector where eachfeature value is the frequency of a class of n-grams instead of a particular n-gram.
Therefore,the dimension of any fragment vector is alwaysequal to the number of classes rather than thenumber of n-grams.
The class of an n-gram isdetermined according to its frequency level inthe given document as we will show in the nextsection.3 N-gram  ClassesFormally, we define an n-gram class as anumber from 0 to m?1 such that the class labeled0 involves the least frequent n-grams and theclass labeled m?1 contains the most frequent n-grams in a document.
If m > 2, classes between 0and m?1 will contain n-grams with intermediatefrequency levels.Concretely, to assign the n-grams of a givendocument to m classes, first, the document isrepresented by a 2 ?
l matrix (l is the total num-ber of n-grams), where the first row contains then-grams ngi (i =1..l) and the second one containstheir number of occurrences freqi (raw frequen-cy).Let max_freq denotes the maximum frequen-cy, so:max_freq = argmax   freqi ;    i=1..l (1)Then, the class of a n-gram ngi is computed asfollows:Class ngi = Log base (freq i);           (2)Given that:base =   ???_??????1.
(3)By computing the base of the logarithm asshown in the equation (3), the most frequent n-grams (i.e.
the n-grams with the maximum num-ber of occurrences) will be in the class m?1, and2 In the rest of the paper, when not said differently, the termn-gram is always used to denote character n-gram.1460the least frequent n-grams (e.g.
the ones that ap-pear only once) will be in the class 0, and the n-grams with intermediate levels of frequency willbe in the classes between 0 and m?1.
Figure 1illustrates an example of computing the n-gramclasses of a document.
The chosen number ofclasses m in this example is 3.Figure 1.
Steps for computing the n-gram classesof a document.
The number of classes in this ex-ample is 3 (class labels are from 0 to 2).Note that, what we explained above is solelyhow to compute the class of each n-gram of adocument.
However, our purpose is to representthe document fragments using these classes.
Tothis end, for each fragment, first, its n-grams areextracted.
Then, each n-gram is replaced by itsclass obtained from the document model builtpreviously.
Finally, the proportion of each classin the fragment is computed.
So, the fragmentcan be represented by a vector of m values,where the first value is the proportion of the class0, the second value is the proportion of the class1 and so on.
Figure 2 illustrates these steps.
Forthe sake of simplicity, we suppose that the frag-ment contains only 5 n-grams.Figure 2.
Steps for representing a documentfragment by the proportion of 3 n-gram classes.4 The Proposed MethodOnce the suspicious document has been seg-mented to fragments and these latter have beenrepresented by a set of features, an importantphase in the process of the intrinsic plagiarismdetection is to decide whether a fragment is pla-giarized or original.
This phase  has been imple-mented in the literature methods using differenttechniques, notably clustering (Akiva, 2011),supervised classification (Meyer zu Eissen et al.,2007), distance functions with thresholds(Stamatatos, 2009b; Oberreuter et al., 2011) anddensity-based methods (Stein et al., 2011).In our supervised method, the classificationmodel is trained with a small number of featureswhich are the proportions of the n-gram classesdescribed in the previous section.In detail, our method is composed of the fol-lowing steps:1.
Segment each document d into fragments si byusing the sliding window technique.
Let S de-notes the set of these fragments.2.
Build the n-gram class document model (seeFigure 1) without considering numerals.
Wechoose to consider the frequency of a n-gramngi as the number of its occurrence in d suchthat it is counted once per fragment.
Therefore,the minimum value that could take a frequencyis 1 if ngi appears only in one fragment, and itsmaximum value is |S| (the number of fragmentsin d) if ngi occurs in each fragment si ?
S.3.
Represent each fragment si by a vector of mfeatures fj , j ?
{0,?, m?1}.
So that, each fj isthe proportion of the n-grams that belong to theclass labeled j to the total number of n-grams in si.4.
Combine into one dataset the fragment vectorsobtained from all the training corpus docu-ments.
Then, label each vector with its authen-ticity state, i.e.
plagiarized, if the fragment pla-giarism percentage exceeds 50% and originalotherwise.5.
Build a classifier using the training set pro-duced in the previous step.
For this purpose, wetrained and tested several classification algo-rithms implemented on  WEKA software (Hallet al., 2009).
The best results were obtainedwith the Na?ve Bayes algorithm3.The aforementioned steps represent the train-ing phase of our method, which aims to constructthe classifier.
In practice, in order to detect theplagiarism in a given document, this classifier is3 Consult the arff file from the archive file associated to thispaper which contains the fragments class proportion modeland the plagiarism prediction for each fragment.1461directly applied to the document fragments afterthe step 3.5 Evaluation5.1 DatasetsWe evaluated our method on 3 corpora: PAN-PC-094 and PAN-PC-115 which are the corporaused in the international competition of plagiar-ism detection in 2009 and 2011 respectively6, aswell as InAra corpus7, which is a publicly availa-ble collection of artificial suspicious documentsin Arabic (Bensalem et al., 2013).
The threedocument collections include XML annotationsindicating the plagiarized segments positions.For the evaluation on English and Spanishdocuments, the classifier has been trained onPAN-PC-11 test corpus and evaluated on thissame corpus using 10-fold cross validation aswell as PAN-PC-09 test corpus.
For the evalua-tion on Arabic documents, the classifier has beentrained and tested on InAra corpus using 10-foldcross validation.5.2 ResultsAs evaluation measures we used macro-averaged precision, recall, f-measure, granularityand plagdet as they were defined in (Potthast etal., 2010).In order to choose the parameters of our me-thod, we trained the classifier using various train-ing sets generated by using the different combi-nations of the n-gram length n (from 1 to 10) andthe number of classes m (from 2 to 10).
Weadopted the parameters that yielded the higher f-measure, namely n = 6 and m = 4.With regard the sliding window parameters,we used three different options for the windowsize, which are 100, 200 and 400 words, with astep equal to the quarter of the window size.
On-ly one option is applied to a given document de-pending on its length.We deliberately use similar sliding windowparameters as the method of Oberreuter et al.4 http://www.uni-weimar.de/en/media/chairs/webis/research/corpora/corpus-pan-pc-09/5 http://www.uni-weimar.de/en/media/chairs/webis/research/corpora/corpus-pan-pc-11/6 We used only the corpora parts that are dedicated to theevaluation of the intrinsic approach.7 http://sourceforge.net/projects/inaracorpus/(2011) 8  in order to compare the two methodswithout being much affected by the segmentationstrategy.Table 1 compares the results of our method tothe one of Oberreuter et al.
(2011) being thewinner in PAN 2011 competition and consideredone of the best intrinsic plagiarism detection me-thods.Our method Oberreuter et al.9PAN-PC-09Precision 0.31 0.39Recall 0.49 0.31F-measure 0.38 0.35Granularity 1.21 1.00PAN-PC-11Precision 0.22 0.34Recall 0.50 0.31F-measure 0.30 0.33Granularity 1.13 1.00InAra Precision 0.24 0.29Recall 0.69 0.25F-measure 0.35 0.27Granularity 1.27 1.44Table 1.
Performance of the n-gram frequencyclass method on 3 corpora.From Table 1 it can be appreciated that ourmethod in terms of recall noticeablyoutperforms Oberreuter et al.
(2011), althoughprecision and granularity still needs to be furtherimproved.
Nonetheless, in comparison with othermethods such as the one of Stamatatos (2009b),that obtained the best results in PAN 2009 com-petition on plagiarism detection, precision is stillvery much competitive: 0.31 vs. 0.23 (PAN-PC-09) and 0.22 vs. 0.14 (PAN-PC-11).
In terms off-measure, Oberreuter et al.
(2011) method issignificantly higher than our method on PAN-PC-11 corpus, but both methods have statistical-ly similar results on InAra10.Considering plagdet, which is a score thatrepresents the overall performance of a plagiar-8 Oberreuter et al.
(2011) used mainly 400 words as thewindow size that may change according to the documentlength.9 The results of Oberreuter et al.
method (2011) on PAN-PC-09 and PAN-PC-11 are taken from his paper.
However,we re-implemented this method in order to evaluate it onInAra.
Note that our re-implementation maybe not perfectlysimilar to the original one since the authors did not providedetails on the parameters tuning.10 The Kolomogorov Smirnov test with a significance levelof 5% has been used to compare the two methods f-measures on PAN-PC-11 and InAra.
Unfortunately, on thePAN-PC-09 corpora we were unable to carry out this testsince we do not have the results of Oberreuter et al.
per eachdocument.1462ism detection method, our method could beranked the 2nd, after Oberreuter et al.
(2011) andbefore Stamatatos (2009b) as it is shown in Table2.Table 2.
Plagdet of our method in comparisonwith the two best methods on PAN competitioncorpora.6 ConclusionIn this paper we have shown that representingthe text fragments of a given suspicious docu-ment  by  the proportion of character n-gramclasses (the most frequent, the least frequent andintermediate levels) is a promising way for de-tecting plagiarism intrinsically.The experiments described in this paper wereperformed on three corpora comprising docu-ments in English, Spanish and for the first timeArabic.
We obtained comparable results to thebest performing systems.Our method best configuration is 6 as the n-grams length and only 4 as the number of classes(i.e.
4 features).
As future work, it would be in-teresting to combine the most precise classes ofdifferent n-gram lengths in order to improve theprecision.
It would be important as well to tryother segmentation strategies and post-processing techniques in order to improve thegranularity.
Another interesting experiment weplan to carry out in the future is to use the n-gram classes along with the traditional stylisticfeatures such as the vocabulary richness, averagesentence length, etc.AcknowledgmentsThe first author would like to thank ParthGupta for his helpful feedback and GabrielOberreuter for providing some implementationdetails of his method.The work of the second author was carried outin the framework of DIANA APPLICATIONS-Finding Hidden Knowledge in Texts:Applications (TIN2012-38603-C02-01) andWIQ-EI IRSES (Grant No.
269180 within theEC FP 7 Marie Curie People) research projects,and the VLC/CAMPUS Microcluster onMultimodal Interaction in Intelligent Systems.ReferencesNavot Akiva.
2011.
Using Clustering to IdentifyOutlier Chunks of Text - Notebook for PAN atCLEF 2011.
In Notebook Papers of CLEF 2011LABs and Workshops, September 19-22,Amsterdam, The Netherlands, pages 5?7.Navot Akiva and Moshe Koppel.
2013.
A GenericUnsupervised Method for Decomposing Multi-Author Documents.
Journal of the AmericanSociety for Information Science and Technology,64(11):2256?2264.Imene Bensalem, Paolo Rosso, and Salim Chikhi.2013.
A New Corpus for the Evaluation of ArabicIntrinsic Plagiarism Detection.
In Pamela Forner,Henning M?ller, Roberto Paredes, Paolo Rosso,and Benno Stein, editors, CLEF 2013, LNCS, vol.8138, pages 53?58, Heidelberg.
Springer.Julian Brooke and Graeme Hirst.
2012.
ParagraphClustering for Intrinsic Plagiarism Detection usinga Stylistic Vector-Space Model with ExtrinsicFeatures - Notebook for PAN at CLEF 2012.
InCLEF 2012 Evaluation Labs and Workshop ?Working Notes Papers, 17-20 September, Rome,Italy.Neil Graham, Graeme Hirst, and Bhaskara Marthi.2005.
Segmenting Documents by StylisticCharacter.
Natural Language Engineering,11(04):397?415.Cristian Grozea and Marius Popescu.
2010. Who ?
sthe Thief??
Automatic Detection of the Direction ofPlagiarism.
In CICLing 2010, Ia?i, Romania,March 21-27, LNCS, vol.
6008, pages 700?710.Springer.Mark Hall, Eibe Frank, Geoffrey Holmes, BernhardPfahringer, Peter Reutemann, and Ian H. Witten.2009.
The WEKA Data Mining Software: AnUpdate.
SIGKDD Explorations, 11(1):10?18.Moshe Koppel and Shachar Seidman.
2013.Automatically Identifying Pseudepigraphic Texts.In EMNLP 2013, pages 1449?1454,Seattle,Washington, USA.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Sven Meyer zu Eissen, Benno Stein, and MarionKulig.
2007.
Plagiarism Detection withoutReference Collections.
In Reinhold Decker andHans -J. Lenz, editors, Advances in Data Analysis,Selected Papers from the 30th Annual Conferenceof the German Classification Society (GfKl),Berlin, pages 359?366, Heidelberg.
Springer.Gabriel Oberreuter, Gaston L?Huillier, Sebasti?n A.R?os, and Juan D. Vel?squez.
2011.
Approaches forIntrinsic and External Plagiarism Detection -Notebook for PAN at CLEF 2011.
In CLEF 2011Evaluation Labs and Workshop ?
Working NotesOberreuteret al.OurmethodStamatatosPAN-PC-09 0.35 0.33 0.25PAN-PC-11 0.33 0.28 0.191463Papers, September 19-22, Amsterdam, TheNetherlands, pages 1?10.Martin Potthast, Benno Stein, Alberto Barr?n-Cede?o, and Paolo Rosso.
2010.
An EvaluationFramework for Plagiarism Detection.
In Chu-RenHuang and Daniel Jurafsky, editors, Proceedings ofthe 23rd International Conference onComputational Linguistics (COLING 2010), pages997?1005, Stroudsburg, USA.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Efstathios Stamatatos.
2009a.
A Survey of ModernAuthorship Attribution Methods.
Journal of theAmerican Society for Information Science,60(3):538?556.Efstathios Stamatatos.
2009b.
Intrinsic PlagiarismDetection Using Character n-gram Profiles.
InBenno Stein, Paolo Rosso, Efstathios Stamatatos,Moshe Koppel, and Eneko Agirre, editors,Proceedings of the SEPLN?09 Workshop onUncovering Plagiarism, Authorship and SocialSoftware Misuse (PAN 09), pages 38?46.
CEUR-WS.org.Benno Stein, Nedim Lipka, and Peter Prettenhofer.2011.
Intrinsic Plagiarism Analysis.
LanguageResources and Evaluation, 45(1):63?82.Michael Tschuggnall and G?nther Specht.
2013.Using Grammar-Profiles to Intrinsically ExposePlagiarism in Text Documents.
In NLDB 2013,LNCS, vol.
7934, pages 297?302.
Springer.1464
