Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 1924?1929,October 25-29, 2014, Doha, Qatar.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsCombining Visual and Textual Features for Information Extraction fromOnline FlyersEmilia ApostolovaBrokerSavant Inc2506 N. Clark St.Chicago, IL 60614emilia@brokersavant.comNoriko TomuroDePaul University243 S. Wabash Ave.Chicago, IL 60604tomuro@cs.depaul.eduAbstractInformation in visually rich formats suchas PDF and HTML is often conveyedby a combination of textual and visualfeatures.
In particular, genres such asmarketing flyers and info-graphics oftenaugment textual information by its color,size, positioning, etc.
As a result, tradi-tional text-based approaches to informa-tion extraction (IE) could underperform.In this study, we present a supervised ma-chine learning approach to IE from on-line commercial real estate flyers.
Weevaluated the performance of SVM clas-sifiers on the task of identifying 12 typesof named entities using a combination oftextual and visual features.
Results showthat the addition of visual features suchas color, size, and positioning significantlyincreased classifier performance.1 IntroductionSince the Message Understanding Conferences inthe 1990s (Grishman and Sundheim, 1996; Chin-chor and Robinson, 1997), Information Extraction(IE) and Named Entity Recognition (NER) ap-proaches have been applied and evaluated on a va-riety of domains and textual genres.
The majorityof the work, however, focuses on the journalistic,scientific, and informal genres (newswires, scien-tific publications, blogs, tweets, and other socialmedia texts) (Nadeau and Sekine, 2007) and dealswith purely textual corpora.
As a result, the fea-ture space of NER systems involves purely tex-tual features, typically word attributes and char-acteristics (orthography, morphology, dictionarylookup, etc.
), their contexts and document features(surrounding word window, local syntax, docu-ment/corpus word frequencies, etc.)
(Nadeau andSekine, 2007).At the same time, textual information is oftenpresented in visually rich formats, e.g.
HTML andPDF.
In addition to text, these formats use a vari-ety of visually salient characteristics, (e.g.
color,font size, positioning) to either highlight or aug-ment textual information.
In some genres and do-mains, a textual representation of the data, exclud-ing visual features is often not enough to accu-rately identify named entities of interest or extractrelevant information.
Marketing materials, suchas online flyers or HTML emails, often containa plethora of visual features and text-based NERapproaches lead to poor results.
In this paper, wepresent a supervised approach that uses a combi-nation of textual and visual features to recognizenamed entities in online marketing materials.2 Motivation and Problem DefinitionA number of broker-based industries (e.g.
com-mercial real estate, heavy equipment machinery,etc.)
lack a centralized searchable database withindustry offerings.
In particular, the commercialreal estate industry (unlike residential real estate)does not have a centralized database or an estab-lished source of information.
Commercial realestate brokers often need to rely on networking,chance, and waste time with a variety of commer-cial real estate databases that often present out-dated information.
While brokers do not often up-date third party inventory databases, they do createmarketing materials (usually PDF flyers) that con-tain all relevant listing information.
Virtually allcommercial real estate offerings come with pub-licly available marketing material that contains allrelevant listing information.
Our goal is to harnessthis source of information (the marketing flyer)and use it to extract structured listing information.Figure 1 shows an example of a commercialreal estate flyer.
The commercial real estate fly-ers are often distributed as PDF documents, linksto HTML pages, or visually rich HTML-based1924Figure 1: An example of a commercial real estateflyerc?
Kudan Group Real Estate.emails.
They typically contain all relevant listinginformation such as the address and neighborhoodof the offering, the names and contact informationof the brokers, the type of space offered (build-ing, land, unit(s) within a building), etc.
Similar toother info-graphics, relevant information could beeasily pinpointed by visual clues.
For example, thelisting street address in Figure 1 (1629 N.
HalstedSt., upper left corner) can be quickly identified anddistinguished from the brokerage firm street ad-dress (156 N. Jefferson St., upper right corner) dueto its visual prominence (font color, size, position-ing).In this study we explored a supervised machinelearning approach to the task of identifying list-ing information from commercial real estate fly-ers.
In particular, we focused on the recognitionof 12 types of named entities as described in Table1 below.3 Related WorkNadeau and Satoshi (2007) present a survey ofNER and describe the feature space of NER re-search.
While they mention multi-media NER inthe context of video/text processing, all describedfeatures/approaches focus only on textual repre-sentation.Broker Name The contact information of allBroker Email listing brokers, including full name,Broker Phone email address, phone number.Company Phone The brokerage company phonenumber.Street The address information of theCity listing address including street orNeighborhood intersection, city, neighborhood,State state, and zip code.ZipSpace Size Size and attributes of relevant spacesSpace Type (e.g.
27,042 SF building, 4.44 acressite, etc.
); Mentions of space typedescriptors, e.g.
building, land/lot,floor, unit.
This excludes space typeand size information of non-essentiallisting attributes (e.g.
basement sizeor parking lot size).Confidential Any mentions of confidentiality.Table 1: Types and descriptions of named enti-ties relevant to extracting listing information fromcommercial real estate flyers.The literature on Information Extraction fromHTML resources is dominated by various ap-proaches based on wrapper induction (Kushmer-ick, 1997; Kushmerick, 2000).
Wrapper induc-tions rely on common HTML structure (based onthe HTML DOM) and formatting features to ex-tract structured information from similarly format-ted HTML pages.
This approach, however, is notapplicable to the genres of marketing materials(PDF and HTML) since they typically do not shareany common structure that can be used to iden-tify relevant named entities.
Laender et al.
(2002)present a survey of data extraction techniques andtools from structured or semi-structured web re-sources.Cai et al.
(2003) present a vision-based segmen-tation algorithm of web pages that uses HTMLlayout features and attempts to partition the pageat the semantic level.
In (Burget and Rudolfova,2009) authors propose web-page block classifica-tion based on visual features.
Yang and Zhang(2001) build a content tree of HTML documentsbased on visual consistency inferred semantics.Burget (2007) proposes a layout based informa-tion extraction from HTML documents and statesthat this visual approach is more robust than tradi-tional DOM-based methods.Changuel et al.
(2009a) describe a system forautomatically extracting author information fromweb-pages.
They use spatial information based onthe depth of the text node in the HTML DOM tree.In (Changuel et al., 2009b) and (Hu et al., 2006),1925the authors proposed a machine learning methodfor title extraction and utilize format informationsuch as font size, position, and font weight.
In(Zhu et al., 2007) authors use layout informationbased on font size and weight for NER for auto-mated expense reimbursement.While the idea of utilizing visual features basedon HTML style has been previously suggested,this study tackles a non-trivial visually rich datasetthat prevents the use of previously suggested sim-plistic approaches to computing HTML features(such as relying on the HTML DOM tree or sim-plistic HTML style rendering).
In addition, we in-troduce the use of RGB color as a feature and nor-malize it approximating human perception.4 Dataset and MethodThe dataset consists of 800 randomly selectedcommercial real estate flyers spanning 315 USlocations, 75 companies, and 730 brokers.
Theflyers were collected from various online sourcesand were originally generated using a variety ofHTML and PDF creator tools.
The collection rep-resents numerous flyer formats and layouts, com-mercial real estate property types (industrial, re-tail, office, land, etc.
), and transactions (invest-ment, sale, lease).All flyers were converted to a common format(HTML)1.
The HTML versions of all documentswere then annotated by 2 annotators.
Figure 2shows an example of an annotated flyer.
Annota-tion guidelines were developed and the 2 annota-tors were able to achieve an inter-annotator agree-ment of 91%2.
The named entities with lowestinter-annotator agreement were entities describ-ing Space Size and Type because of the some-what complex rules for determining essential list-ing space information.
For example, one of thespace size/type rules reads as follows: If the list-ing refers to a building and mentions the lot size, includeboth the land size, the building size, and corresponding spacetypes.
Do not include individual parts of the building (e.g.office/basement) as separate spaces.
If the listing refers to aUNIT within the building, not the whole building, then DONOT include the land site as a separate space.A supervised machine learning approach was1PDFs were converted to HTML using the PDFTO-HTML conversion program http://pdftohtml.sourceforge.net/.2The inter-annotator agreement was measured as F1-scoreusing one of the annotator?s named entities as the gold stan-dard set and the other as a comparison set.Figure 2: The HTML versions of the flyers wereannotated by 2 annotators using a custom web-based annotation tool.then applied to the task of identifying the 12named entities shown in Table 1.
Flyers were con-verted to text using an HTML parser while pre-serving some of the white space formatting.
Thetext was tokenized and the task was then modeledas a BIO classification task, classifiers identify theBeginning, the Inside, and Outside of the text seg-ments.
We first used a traditional set of text-basedfeatures for the classification task.
Table 2 liststhe various text-based features used.
In all cases,a sliding window including the 5 preceding and 5following tokens was used as features.Feature Name DescriptionToken A normalized string representation ofthe token.
All tokens were convertedto lower case and all digits wereconverted to a common format.Token Orth The token orthography.
Possible valuesare lowercase (all token characters arelower case), all capitals (all tokencharacters are upper case), upper initial(the first token character is upper case,the rest are lower case), mixed (anymixture of upper and lower case lettersnot included in the previous categories).Token Kind Possible values are word, number,symbol, punctuation.Regex type Regex-based rules were used to markchunks as one of 3 regex types:email, phone number, zip code.Gazetteer Text chunks were marked as possibleUS cities or states based on US CensusBureau city and state data.www.census.gov/geo/maps-data/data/gazetteer2013.html.Table 2: List of text-based features used for theNER task.
A sliding window of the 5 precedingand 5 following tokens was used for all features.1926As noted previously, human annotators wereable to quickly spot named entities of interestsolely because of their visual characteristics.
Forexample, a text-only version of the flyer shown inFigure 1, stripped of all rich formatting, will makeit quite difficult to distinguish the listing address(shown in prominent size, position, and color)from the brokerage company address, which israrely prominent as it is not considered importantinformation in the context of the flyer.
Similarly,the essential size information for the listing shownon Figure 2 appears prominently on the first page(square footage of the offered restaurant), whilenon-essential size information, such as the size ofthe adjacent parking lot or basement, tend to ap-pear in smaller font on subsequent flyer pages.To account for such visual characteristics we at-tempted to also include visual features associatedwith text chunks.
We used the computed HTMLstyle attributes for each DOM element containingtext.
Table 3 lists the computed visual features.Feature Name DescriptionFont Size The computed font-size attribute ofthe surrounding HTML DOM element,normalized to 7 basic sizes (xx-small,x-small, small, medium, large, x-large,xx-large).Color The computed color attribute of thesurrounding HTML DOM element.The RGB values were normalizedto a set of 100 basic colors.
Weconverted the RGB values to theYUV color space, and then usedEuclidian distance to find themost similar basic colorapproximating human perception.Y Coordinate The computed top attribute of thesurrounding HTML DOM element, i.e.the y-coordinate in pixels.
The pixellocations was normalized to 150 pixelincrements (roughly 1/5th of thevisible screen for the most commonscreen resolution.
)Table 3: List of visual features used for the NERtask.
A sliding window of 5 preceding and 5 fol-lowing DOM elements were used for all features.Computing the HTML style attributes is a com-plex task since they are typically defined by acombination of CSS files, in-lined HTML styleattributes, and browser defaults.
The complex-ities of style definition, inheritance, and over-writing are handled by browsers3.
We used the3We attempted to use an HTML renderer from the Cobrajava toolkit http://lobobrowser.org/cobra.jspto compute HTML style attributes.
However, this rendererChrome browser to compute dynamically the styleof each DOM element and output it as inlinestyle attributes.
To achieve this we program-matically inserted a javascript snippet that inlinesthe computed style and saves the new version ofthe HTML on the local file system utilizing theHTML5 saveAs interface4.
Details on how wenormalized the style attribute values for font size,RGB color, and Y coordinate are shown in Table3.We then applied Support Vector Machines(SVM) (Vapnik, 2000) on the NER task using theLibSVM library (Chang and Lin, 2011).
We choseSVMs as they have been shown to perform wellon a variety of NER tasks, for example (Isozakiand Kazawa, 2002; Takeuchi and Collier, 2002;Mayfield et al., 2003; Ekbal and Bandyopadhyay,2008).
We used a linear kernel model with thedefault parameters.
The multi-class problem wasconverted to binary problems using the one-vs-others scheme.
80% of the documents were usedfor training, and the remaining 20% for testing.5 ResultsResults are shown in Table 4.
We compared clas-sifier performance using only textual features (first3 columns), versus performance using both textualand visual features (next 3 columns).
Results wereaveraged over 2 runs of randomly selected train-ing/test documents with 80%/20% ratio.
We usedan exact measure which considers an answer to becorrect only if both the entity boundaries and en-tity type are accurately predicted.The addition of visual features significantly5increased the overall F1-score from 83 to 87%.As expected, performance gains are more signif-icant for named entities that are typically visu-ally salient and are otherwise difficult (or impossi-ble) to identify in a text-only version of the fly-ers.
Named Entities referring to listing addressinformation showed the most significant improve-ments.
In particular, the F1-score for mentions ofNeighborhoods (typically prominently shown onthe first page of the flyers) improved by 19%; F1-score for mentions of the listing State improved by9%; and Street, City, Zip by roughly 4% each, allproduced poor results on our dataset and failed to accuratelycompute the pixel location of text elements.4https://github.com/eligrey/FileSaver.js5The difference is statistically significant with p value <0.0001% using Z-test on two proportions.1927Named Entity Pt Rt Ft Pv+t Rv+t Fv+t SBroker Name 82.7 91.7 87.0 95.0 91.6 93.2 YBroker Email 92.3 92.8 92.6 97.2 90.2 93.6 NBroker Phone 90.2 86.1 88.1 94.7 85.2 89.7 NCompany Ph.
95.2 67.4 78.9 89.8 65.4 75.7 NStreet 87.4 70.5 78.1 87.3 77.3 82.0 YCity 92.5 88.5 90.5 94.9 92.8 93.8 YNeighborhood 68.2 52.8 59.5 85.3 72.9 78.6 YState 77.4 97.5 86.3 95.8 95.0 95.4 YZip 89.7 94.5 92.1 96.1 97.1 96.6 YSpace Size 80.2 65.0 71.8 87.0 70.6 77.9 YSpace Type 76.0 74.7 75.3 78.6 72.2 75.3 NConfidential 100 60.0 75.0 75.0 85.7 79.9 NOVERALL 84.8 81.3 83.0 91.2 83.2 87.0 YTable 4: Results from applying SVM using thetextual features described in Table 2, as well asboth the textual and visual features described inTables 2 and 3. t=textual features only, v+t=visual+ textual features, P=Precision, R=Recall, F=F1-score, S=Significant Differencestatistically significant.
Visual clues are also typi-cally used when identifying relevant size informa-tion and, as expected, performance improved sig-nificantly by roughly 6%.
The difference in per-formance for mentions used to describe confiden-tial information is not statistically significant6be-cause such mentions rarely occurred in the dataset.Similarly, performance differences for CompanyPhone, Broker Phone, Broker Email, and SpaceType are not statistically significant.
In all ofthese cases, visual features did not influence per-formance and text-based features proved adequatepredictors.6 ConclusionWe have shown that information extraction in cer-tain genres and domains spans different media -textual and visual.
Ubiquitous online and dig-ital formats such as PDF and HTML often ex-ploit the interaction of textual and visual elements.Information is often augmented or conveyed bynon-textual features such as positioning, font size,color, and images.
However, traditionally, NERapproaches rely exclusively on textual featuresand as a result could perform poorly in visuallyrich genres such as online marketing flyers or info-graphics.
We have evaluated the performance gainon the task of NER from commercial real estateflyers by adding visual features to a set of tradi-tional text-based features.
We used SVM classi-fiers for the task of identifying 12 types of namedentities.
Results show that overall visual featuresimproved performance significantly.6p value = 0.7323% using Z-test on two proportions.ReferencesRadek Burget and Ivana Rudolfova.
2009.
Webpage element classification based on visual features.In Intelligent Information and Database Systems,2009.
ACIIDS 2009.
First Asian Conference on,pages 67?72.
IEEE.Radek Burget.
2007.
Layout based information extrac-tion from html documents.
In Document Analysisand Recognition, 2007.
ICDAR 2007.
Ninth Inter-national Conference on, volume 2, pages 624?628.IEEE.Deng Cai, Shipeng Yu, Ji-Rong Wen, and Wei-YingMa.
2003.
Extracting content structure for webpages based on visual representation.
In Web Tech-nologies and Applications, pages 406?417.
Springer.Chih-Chung Chang and Chih-Jen Lin.
2011.
LIB-SVM: A library for support vector machines.
ACMTransactions on Intelligent Systems and Technol-ogy, 2:27:1?27:27.
Software available at http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/?cjlin/libsvm.Sahar Changuel, Nicolas Labroche, and BernadetteBouchon-Meunier.
2009a.
Automatic web pagesauthor extraction.
In Flexible Query Answering Sys-tems, pages 300?311.
Springer.Sahar Changuel, Nicolas Labroche, and BernadetteBouchon-Meunier.
2009b.
A general learningmethod for automatic title extraction from htmlpages.
In Machine Learning and Data Mining inPattern Recognition, pages 704?718.
Springer.Nancy Chinchor and Patricia Robinson.
1997.
Muc-7named entity task definition.
In Proceedings of the7th Conference on Message Understanding.Asif Ekbal and Sivaji Bandyopadhyay.
2008.
Namedentity recognition using support vector machine: Alanguage independent approach.
International Jour-nal of Computer Systems Science & Engineering,4(2).Ralph Grishman and Beth Sundheim.
1996.
Mes-sage understanding conference-6: A brief history.
InCOLING, volume 96, pages 466?471.Yunhua Hu, Hang Li, Yunbo Cao, Li Teng, DmitriyMeyerzon, and Qinghua Zheng.
2006.
Automaticextraction of titles from general documents usingmachine learning.
Information processing & man-agement, 42(5):1276?1293.Hideki Isozaki and Hideto Kazawa.
2002.
Efficientsupport vector classifiers for named entity recog-nition.
In Proceedings of the 19th internationalconference on Computational linguistics-Volume 1,pages 1?7.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.Nicholas Kushmerick.
1997.
Wrapper induction forinformation extraction.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofWashington.1928Nicholas Kushmerick.
2000.
Wrapper induction: Ef-ficiency and expressiveness.
Artificial Intelligence,118(1):15?68.Alberto HF Laender, Berthier A Ribeiro-Neto, Alti-gran S da Silva, and Juliana S Teixeira.
2002.
Abrief survey of web data extraction tools.
ACM Sig-mod Record, 31(2):84?93.James Mayfield, Paul McNamee, and Christine Piatko.2003.
Named entity recognition using hundreds ofthousands of features.
In Proceedings of the seventhconference on Natural language learning at HLT-NAACL 2003-Volume 4, pages 184?187.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.David Nadeau and Satoshi Sekine.
2007.
A sur-vey of named entity recognition and classification.Lingvisticae Investigationes, 30(1):3?26.Koichi Takeuchi and Nigel Collier.
2002.
Use ofsupport vector machines in extended named entityrecognition.
In proceedings of the 6th conferenceon Natural language learning-Volume 20, pages 1?7.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Vladimir Vapnik.
2000.
The nature of statistical learn-ing theory.
springer.Yudong Yang and HongJiang Zhang.
2001.
Html pageanalysis based on visual cues.
In Document Analysisand Recognition, 2001.
Proceedings.
Sixth Interna-tional Conference on, pages 859?864.
IEEE.Guangyu Zhu, Timothy J Bethea, and Vikas Krishna.2007.
Extracting relevant named entities for auto-mated expense reimbursement.
In Proceedings ofthe 13th ACM SIGKDD international conference onKnowledge discovery and data mining, pages 1004?1012.
ACM.1929
