Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), page 1,October 25-29, 2014, Doha, Qatar.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsIBM Cognitive Computing - An NLP Renaissance!Salim RoukosSenior Manager of Multi-Lingual NLP and CTO for Translation TechnologiesIBM T. J. Watson Research Centerroukos@us.ibm.comAbstractElectronically available multi-modal data(primarily text and meta-data) is unprece-dented in terms of its volume, variety, ve-locity, (and veracity).
The increased in-terest and investment in cognitive comput-ing for building systems and solutions thatenable and support richer human-machineinteractions presents a unique opportunityfor novel statistical models for natural lan-guage processing.In this talk, I will describe a journey atIBM during the past three decades in de-veloping novel statistical models for NLPcovering statistical parsing, machine trans-lation, and question-answering systems.Along with a discussion of some of the re-cent successes, I will discuss some diffi-cult challenges that need to be addressed toachieve more effective cognitive systemsand applications.About the SpeakerSalim Roukos is Senior Manager of Multi-LingualNLP and CTO for Translation Technologies atIBM T. J. Watson Research Center.
Dr. Roukosreceived his B.E.
from the American Universityof Beirut, in 1976, his M.Sc.
and Ph.D. fromthe University of Florida, in 1978 and 1980, re-spectively.
He joined Bolt Beranek and Newmanfrom 1980 through 1989, where he was a SeniorScientist in charge of projects in speech compres-sion, time scale modification, speaker identifica-tion, word spotting, and spoken language under-standing.
He was an Adjunct Professor at BostonUniversity in 1988 before joining IBM in 1989.Dr.
Roukos has served as Chair of the IEEE Digi-tal Signal Processing Committee in 1988.Salim Roukos currently leads a group at IBMT.J.
Watson research Center that focuses on vari-ous problems using machine learning techniquesfor natural language processing.
The group pi-oneered many of the statistical methods for NLPfrom statistical parsing, to natural language under-standing, to statistical machine translation and ma-chine translation evaluation metrics (BLEU met-ric).
Roukos has over a 150 publications in thespeech and language areas and over two dozenpatents.
Roukos was the lead of the group whichintroduced the first commercial statistical lan-guage understanding system for conversationaltelephony systems (IBM ViaVoice Telephony) in2000 and the first statistical machine translationproduct for Arabic-English translation in 2003.He has recently lead the effort to create IBM?soffering of IBM Real-Time Translation Services(RTTS) a platform for enabling real-time transla-tion applications such as multilingual chat and on-demand document translation.1
