Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 1159?1168,October 25-29, 2014, Doha, Qatar.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsExploiting Community Emotion for Microblog Event DetectionGaoyan Ou1,2, Wei Chen1,2,, Tengjiao Wang1,2, Zhongyu Wei1,3,Binyang Li4, Dongqing Yang1,2and Kam-Fai Wong1,31Key Laboratory of High Confidence Software Technologies, Ministry of Education, China2School of Electronics Engineering and Computer Science, Peking University, China3Shenzhen Research Institute, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, China4Dept.
of Information Science & Technology, University of International Relations, Chinapekingchenwei@pku.edu.cnAbstractMicroblog has become a major plat-form for information about real-worldevents.
Automatically discovering real-world events from microblog has attractedthe attention of many researchers.
Howev-er, most of existing work ignore the impor-tance of emotion information for event de-tection.
We argue that people?s emotion-al reactions immediately reflect the occur-ring of real-world events and should be im-portant for event detection.
In this study,we focus on the problem of community-related event detection by community e-motions.
To address the problem, we pro-pose a novel framework which includethe following three key components: mi-croblog emotion classification, communityemotion aggregation and community emo-tion burst detection.
We evaluate our ap-proach on real microblog data sets.
Exper-imental results demonstrate the effective-ness of the proposed framework.1 IntroductionMicroblog has become a popular and convenientplatform for people to share information about so-cial events in real time.
When an external even-t occurs, it will be quickly propagated betweenmicroblog users.
During propagation process ofan event, sufficient amount of users will expresstheir emotions.
Taking Sina Weibo1as an exam-ple, more than 12 percent of users use emoticons2when reposting an event-related microblog mes-sage.The emotion information can not only help usbetter understand a given event, but also be u-tilized to discover new events.
Figure 1 shows1http://weibo.com/2An icon to indicate user?s emotion, as shown in Table 1.                       KDSS\ DQJHU VDG IHDU   ?????
   ?????
   ?????
   TDWDU    UDRQDOGR    EDFHOROD    00.10.20.30.40.50.60.71 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31Emotion DistributionDay (in March 2011)Happy AngerSad FearFigure 1: The global emotion dynamicsthe emotional distribution dynamics of the over-all microblog messages in March 2011.
Thesudden change of the public emotion distribu-tion on March 12 indicates a public event: 3.11Earthquake in Japan.
We can see that emotionalchanges immediately reflect the occurring of real-world events, thus it is reasonable to use them toperform event detection.Most existing research on microblog event de-tection (Weng and Lee, 2011; Sakaki et al., 2010;Becker et al., 2010) only account for the factu-al information (e.g., burstness of topic keyword-s).
They usually ignore the importance of emo-tion information for event detection.
Althoughthere have recently been a few papers (Zhao et al.,2012a; Nguyen et al., 2013; Akcora et al., 2010)in this direction, they have a number of disad-vantages.
Firstly, they can not detect community-related events.
Since they all aggregate emotionat global level, they can only discover national at-tention events, such as public holidays ( ?Christ-mas?
and ?Spring Festival?)
or natural disasters.In many applications, discovering events relatedto a certain group of users or a certain topic ismore meaningful.
Consider the following ques-tions: ?what happened in the football communi-ty last week??
and ?what are the most significantevents in the lawyer community last month??
Sec-ondly, they assign equal weight to each microblogmessage or user when aggregating them to a glob-al emotion score.
Such approaches may lead toincorrect results when a user posts emotion spam1159in the community.
Thirdly, there is a lack of quan-titative evaluation using real-world events in exist-ing work.
For example, there is only case study in(Zhao et al., 2012a) and (Akcora et al., 2010).In this study, we focus on a new task of de-tecting community-related events via communityemotion.
Our intuition is inspired from the so-cial psychology theory of group emotion.
In socialpsychology, group emotion refers to the moods,emotions and dispositional affects of a group ofpeople3.
It can arise as a result of group-relevantevents (Smith et al., 2007).
For example, peoplewill feel happy when their favorite football teamwins a game and feel sad when their team losesa game.
Thus we can use the community emo-tion as signals to detect community-related events.To achieve good performance of this new task, thefollowing two factors must be considered: 1) howto measure the community emotion based on mi-croblog message or user emotion and 2) how toperform event detection based on the sequence ofcommunity emotion.To measure community emotion, we argue thatin a given community, different users have differ-ent emotional authorities.
The emotion of highlyinfluential people in the community may be moreimportant in determining the community emotion(Bars?ade and Gibson, 1998).
We propose to usethe user?s emotion authority computed by the so-cial network of the community to weight the us-er when aggregating community emotion.
Sincespam user is unlikely to have high emotion au-thority in the community, our method can reducethe effect of emotion spam.
Based on the com-munity emotion, we present an emotion burst de-tection algorithm for the community emotion dis-tribution sequence.
We identify two emotional s-tates of the community: ?emotion stable?
state and?emotion burst?
state.
We use the Dirichlet dis-tribution to model the generation process of thecommunity emotion distribution.
An efficient e-motion burst detection algorithm is presented todetect community-related events.We evaluate our approach on large-scale mi-croblog data sets by using real-world event listfor each community.
Experimental results demon-strate that the community emotion is an effectivesignal for community-related event detection.
Incomparison with several baseline methods, our e-motion burst detection algorithm also improves3http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Group emotionthe event detection performance in terms of pre-cision, recall and F-measure.2 Related WorkIn this section, we review the related work on sen-timent analysis and event detection in microblog,respectively.Sentiment Analysis in Microblog: Sentimentanalysis (Pang and Lee, 2008; Liu, 2012) is main-ly about analyzing people?s opinions, sentimentsand emotions towards a given event, topic, produc-t, etc.
Microblog platforms like Twitter and Wei-bo, provide people a convenient way to post theiremotional reactions towards social events in al-most real time.
This leads to increasing numberof interests on sentiment analysis in microblog da-ta (Davidov et al., 2010; Liu et al., 2012; Go etal., 2009; Agarwal et al., 2011; Pak and Paroubek,2010; Jiang et al., 2011; Speriosu et al., 2011;Bermingham and Smeaton, 2010).
The trainingdata for microblog sentiment analysis are usual-ly obtained in an automatic manner by utilizingemoticons, hashtags and smileys.
Davidov et al.
(2010) propose an approach to automatically ob-tain labeled training examples by exploiting hash-tags and smileys.
Liu et al.
(2012) proposed an e-moticon smoothed method to integrate both manu-ally labeled data and noisy labeled data for Twittersentiment classification.Different from existing microblog sentimen-t analysis work, which aims at discovering senti-ments and emotions for an event or topic given inadvance, we are interested in utilizing the emotioninformation in microblog messages for real-worldevent detection.
Our work use sentiment analysisas a tool to perform microblog emotion classifi-cation.
Then we propose an event detection algo-rithm based on the sequence of community levelemotion distribution.Event Detection in Microblog: Event detec-tion from microblog data has attracted increas-ing attention recently.
We divide existing workinto the following two categories: non-emotion-based methods and emotion-based methods.
Non-emotion-based methods try to exploit keyword oractivity patterns to discover events (Weng and Lee,2011; Sakaki et al., 2010; Becker et al., 2010;Mathioudakis and Koudas, 2010).
Mathioudakisand Koudas (2010) first identify ?bursty?
key-words and then discover events by grouping burstykeywords together.
Zhao et al.
(2012b) focuses on1160identifying event-related burst from social mediabased on multiple activities.
They propose a uni-fied optimization model to integrate multiple cor-related activity streams based on the state machinein (Kleinberg, 2003).Emotion-based methods try to exploit the emo-tional reactions to discover events (Zhao et al.,2012a; Akcora et al., 2010).
Akcora et al.
(2010)model public emotion as an emotion vector com-puted by counting emotion words and then use arule-based method to identify public breakpoints.Zhao et al.
(2012a) use a simple top-k method todetect abnormal events based on sequence of sen-timent variance.Our method is also an emotion-based method.However, our approach is different from existingemotion-based methods in the following aspect-s. Firstly, while existing work aggregates emotionfor all users, we focus on emotion for a certaincommunity to discover community-related events.Secondly, existing methods assume that the emo-tions of different users are of equal importance.We distinguish user?s emotional authority basedon the community structure of users.3 Preliminary DefinitionsIn this section, we first give some basic conceptsbefore formally defining our problem.Topical Community: A group of connectedusers that are interested in a specific topic.
A topi-cal community can be denoted asC = {V,E,M},where V is the set of community users, E isthe set of relationships of between users.
M ={M1,M2, ...,MT} is the microblog message col-lection in the community, which is segmented ac-cording to time.
Mtis the microblog message col-lection in time interval t.Emotion Distribution: An emotion distribu-tion etis a real-valueN -dimension vector sampledfrom the emotion space, satisfying the constraint?Ni=1eti= 1.
It indicates the emotional state of amicroblog message, a user or a community at timet.
At a given time interval t, a user emotion distri-bution et(u) is computed by an aggregation func-tion over the emotion distribution of the microblogmessages posted by u in time interval t. Commu-nity emotion distribution et(c) is computed by anaggregation function over the emotion distributionof the community users in c at time interval t.Community Emotion Burst: Given an emo-tion distribution sequence etfor community c, anemotion burst is defined as period [ts, te] in whichsome event relevant to c takes places.
During thetime period, the emotion distribution of c is :1) sig-nificantly different from its average emotion distri-bution, or 2) extremely uneven distributed.Given the above definitions, our object is then todetect community-related events from the emotiondistribution sequence of the community.4 The Proposed FrameworkIn this section, we describe our microblog eventdetection framework.
The framework aims to de-tect community-related events based on the com-munity emotion.
The overview of our frameworkis shown in Figure 2.
In particular, we define thefollowing four main components:1) Microblog emotion classification: We trainemotion classification model by automatically ac-quiring training data using the emoticons.2) Community emotion aggregation: We as-sume that in a given community, different usershave different weights when aggregating commu-nity emotion.
Thus we propose a novel weightingapproach based on the user?s authority.3) Community emotion burst detection: Giv-en the community emotion, we propose an emo-tion burst detection algorithm to detect communityemotion bursts.4) Event extraction: The function of this com-ponent is to extract event keywords for each com-munity emotion burst.
We count the documentfrequency (DF) of each term contained in the mi-croblog messages in the burst period.
Then thetop-5 DF terms are used to describe the event oc-curring during the burst period, although there ex-ist alternative techniques (Ritter et al., 2012; Li etal., 2010).Since the last component is not the main focusof this work, we only introduce the first three com-ponents in detail in the following subsections.4.1 Microblog Emotion ClassificationWe build an emotion classifier using the multino-mial Na?
?ve Bayes classifier for each communityto classify microblog messages into different emo-tion classes.
Here we are interested in the settingwhere the microblog messages arrive as stream,thus it is not appropriate to use a constant set ofmanually labeled messages.
To avoid manual an-notation cost, we adopt a distant supervision ap-proach (Go et al., 2009; Davidov et al., 2010; Hu1161Microblog EmotionClassificationCommunity EmotionAggregationCommunity EmotionBurst DetectionCommunityNetworkMicroblogStreams Event ExtractionFigure 2: Overview of our community-relatedevent detection frameworkTable 1: List of emoticonsHappy(26)good laugh love smile cuteAnger (19)anger hate curse despise crazySad(13)sad disappoint cry unhappy unwellFear(11)fear surprise shame doubt frightet al., 2013) to acquire labeled microblog mes-sages automatically by using the emoticons.
Wefirst select a set of emoticons which are most fre-quently used to express emotion in microblog.Then we manually map each emoticon into fouremotion classes (26 for happy, 19 for anger, 13for sad and 11 for fear).
We only show the topfive emoticons for each emotion type in Table 1.The labeled emoticons can then be used to acquiretraining data to train an emotion classifier for acommunity in any time period.We combine the features which have beenproven effective by previous work, such as punc-tuation and emotion lexicons.
Specifically, we usethe following features : 1) Words appearing inthe microblog message serve as word features, 2)Number of ?!?
characters and ???
in the microblogmessage, and 3) Each term in a general emotionlexicon serves as an emotion lexicon feature.The emotion distribution e(m) of a microblogmessage m is represented by a N -dimension dis-tribution vector.
For example, if a microblog mes-sage m is classified as happy, then its emotion dis-tribution e(m) is [1, 0, 0, 0].
The emotion distribu-tion of e(u) of user u at time t is average emotiondistribution of the microblog messages posted byhim during time t.et(u) =1NutNut?m=1e(m)(1)where Nutis the number of microblog messagesposted by user u at time t.4.2 Community-level Emotion AggregationA common strategy to measure community emo-tion is to compute the average emotion of the com-munity users.
It is based on the assumption that theemotion of different community users are with e-qual importance.
This is implemented by employ-ing an average aggregation function on the indi-vidual emotion distribution et(u):et(c) =1Nc?u?cet(u)(2)where Ncis the number of users in community c.Intuitively, the emotion of user with higher au-thority in community should be more important indetermining community emotion.
Thus we esti-mate community emotion by taking into accountuser?s emotional authority, which is based on theassumption that different users in a communityhave different emotional authorities.We employ HITS algorithm(Kleinberg, 1999)to compute the user authority auth(u) based onthe user network {V,E} of the community.
Thenauth(u) is used to represent the emotional author-ity of user u.
This authority-based community e-motion aggregation approach can also reduce theeffect of spam users, since they usually have lowauthorities in the community network.
For sim-plicity and computation efficiency, we assume thatauth(u) is time independent, which means that weonly need to run the HITS algorithm once for eachcommunity.
Given the user emotion distribution-s and the user emotional authorities, the emotiondistribution for a community c in time interval tcan be measured as:et(c) =1Act?u?cauth(u)et(u)(3)where Act=?u?ctauth(u) is the normalizationterm.4.3 Community Emotion Burst DetectionWe formulate our problem into the binary statemodel framework (Kleinberg, 2003).
For a giv-en community c, there are T time intervals intotal, with community emotion distribution se-quence e = (e1, e2, ..., eT) and state sequenceq = (q1, q2, ..., qT).
Each qtcan be one of the fol-lowing two states: qt= 0 (?emotion stable?
state)and qt= 1 (?emotion burst?
state).
Our objective1162(a) ?emotion stable?
state (b) ?emotion burst?
stateFigure 3: Emotion probability density for ?emo-tion stable?
state and ?emotion burst?
stateis to find an optimal state sequence q?given theemotion distribution sequence e.Since each etis a distribution rather than pos-itive integer, the emotion generation process canno longer be modeled by a Poisson distribution.We choose to model the emotion generation pro-cess by the Dirichlet distribution.
This process isanalogous to the document-level topic generationin the LDA topic model (Blei et al., 2003).If community c is in an ?emotion stable?
state intime interval t, its emotion distribution etshouldbe close to the average emotion distribution ea.The density function is defined as f(et, ea, st=0) = Dirichlet(?0ea), where st= 0 indicatesthat the community is in an ?emotion stable?
s-tate and ?0is a positive parameter.
To ensurethat etcloser to eawill get higher probability,?0should satisfy the constraint ?0?
min ea> 1.An example of the probability density function off(et, ea, st= 0) in a three dimension emotion s-pace is shown in Figure 3(a).If community c is in an ?emotion burst?
s-tate in time interval t, the emotion distributionof c is : 1) significantly different from its av-erage emotion distribution, or 2) extremely un-even distributed.
For example, assume ea=[0.25, 0.25, 0.25, 0.25], if community is in burstin time interval t, its emotion distribution is morelikely to be [0.1, 0.4, 0.1, 0.4] (significantly dif-ferent from ea) or [0.1, 0.7, 0.1, 0.1] (extremelyanger).
The density function is then defined asf(et, ea, st= 1) = Dirichlet(?1ea).
st= 1indicates that the community is in an ?emotionburst?
state and ?1should satisfy the constraint:?1?
max ea< 1.
An example of the probabili-ty density function of f(et, ea, st= 1) in a threedimension emotion space is shown in Figure 3(b).Based on above discussion, the cost function foran emotion state sequence q can be defined as:cost(q|e) =T?t=1?
ln(ft(et, ea, qt)) + b ln(1 ?
pipi)(4)where pi is the probability the community willchange the emotion state in two consecutive timeintervals t and t + 1. b denotes the number of e-motion state changes in the whole time intervals[1, T ].Equation 4 is exactly the objective function weneed to optimize.
This optimization problem canbe efficiently solved by using a dynamic program-ming procedure, as summarized in Algorithm 1.Algorithm 1 mainly consists of two phases: aforward phase (line 5 - line 10) which calculatesthe minimal cost for emotion distribution sub-sequence and a backward phase to construct theoptimal emotion state sequence (line 11 - line 14).For convenience, we use ft(s) to denoteft(et, ea, s).
pis?s= pi if s?
?= s, otherwisepis?s= (1 ?
pi).
ct(s) denotes the minimal cost ofgenerating the emotion distribution sub-sequence{e1, ..., et} with qt= s. q?t(s) stores the state oftime interval t ?
1 for the most likely state sub-sequence so far with qt= s.Algorithm 1 Emotion Burst ExtractionInput: The emotion distribution sequence e =(e1, e2, ..., eT), the state transition cost pi and theparameters ?0and ?11: for each s ?
{0, 1} do2: Initialize c1(s) = ?
ln f1(s)3: Initialize q?1(s) = 04: end for5: for each t = 2, ?
?
?
, T do6: for each s ?
{0, 1} do7: ct(s) = mins?(ct?1(s?)
?
ln ft(s) ?lnpis?s)8: q?t(s) = argmins(ct?1(s?)
?
lnpis?s)9: end for10: end for11: q?
(T ) = argminscT(s)12: for each t = T ?
1, ?
?
?
, 2 do13: q?
(t) = q?t+1(q?
(t + 1))14: end forOutput: The optimal emotion state sequence q?1163Table 2: Basic statistics of data setsCommunity #User #Link #Microblog #Eventlegal cases 4937 97639 269871 31football 9928 105483 416631 75economy 2657 65403 179584 46singer 3759 79458 478265 535 Experimental Setup5.1 Data SetWe use a large microblog data set crawled fromSina Weibo, which is the most popular mi-croblog service in China.
This data set contains212,859,466 Chinese microblog messages postedby 916,126 users in a period of about 8 month-s (1/12/2010?
20/7/2011).
We also crawled thefollowing network, which resulted in 15,681,296following relationships for the 916,126 users.We choose four communities: ?legal cases?,?football?, ?economy?
and ?singer?.
To obtain themembers for each topical community, we manu-ally selected several keywords and input them asqueries to the user search page4.
After filtering outthe users whose microblog messages are not col-lected in our corpora, we extract the sub-networkof the users from the whole following network.We use a simple but efficient method to extractmicroblog messages for each topical community:1) If a microblog message is posted by the com-munity members and also contains keywords ofthe community, it belongs to the community; 2)If a microblog message is posted by communitymember u and it is reposting, commenting on orreplying to another microblog posted by commu-nity member v, then it belongs to the community.The basic statistics of our data sets are shown inTable 2.5.2 Ground Truth GenerationAlgorithm 1 generates a list of emotion burstsfor each community.
Since our goal is to identi-fy community-related events, we need to evaluatehow well the generated emotion bursts correspondto the ground truth real-world events.
To gener-ate the ground truth for evaluation, we utilize thenews website Sina News5.
Two PhD students areinvited to manually generate a list of real eventsfor each community by referring to the annual top-4http://s.weibo.com/user/&tag=keyword5http://news.sina.com.cnic summary page6of Sina News.
The annotationagreement is higher than 90%.
Each event is al-so associated with its occurred date.
The numberof events for each community is shown in the lastcolumn of Table 2.
For each community, the even-t list is then used to evaluate the performance ofdifferent event detection models.5.3 Evaluation MetricWe use precision, recall and F-measure as evalu-ation metric.
For each community, we comparethe event list Ecand the generated burst list Bctocompute the above metric.
Specifically, the preci-sion, recall and F-measure for a community c aredefined as follows:P =?|Ec|j=1?|Bc|k=1I(Ecj?
Bck)|Bc|(5)R =?|Ec|j=1?|Bc|k=1I(Ecj?
Bck)|Ec|(6)F =2 ?
P ?RP + R(7)where Ecjis the occurring time of the j-th eventin community c, Bckis the k-th identified burst forcommunity c.
I(.)
is the indicator function (whichequals 1 if its argument is true and 0 otherwise).The final precision, recall and F-measure are av-eraged over different communities.5.4 Compared MethodsWe now introduce four methods used for compar-ison as follows:EmoPeakFind: The method proposed in (Ak-cora et al., 2010), which aims at discoveringbreakpoints from public emotion.
They use thefollowing simple rule to find breakpoints from e-motion sequences:Sim(et?1, et) < Sim(et?2, et?1) (8)Sim(et?1, et) < Sim(et, et+1) (9)where Sim is a similarity function.
We use thecosine similarity function in our evaluation.TopKEmoVar: The method used in (Zhao et al.,2012a).
They first derive a sequence of relativevariation Vnfor each single emotion sequence en.Then they define a sequence of emotion variationas (?4n=1|Vnt|).
This sequence is sorted in de-scending order and the top-k t is selected as burst6http://news.sina.com.cn/zt/1164Table 3: Event detection performance of differentmethodsMethod Precision Recall F-measureEmoPeakFind 0.313 0.625 0.417TopKEmoVari 0.423 0.423 0.423KLB 0.575 0.702 0.632MBurst 0.534 0.497 0.515Our Method 0.654 0.715 0.683state points, where k is set to be the size of theevent list for each community.KLB: The method proposed in (Kleinberg,2003).
Note that KLB can only deal with a singlesequence en= (en1, ..., ent, ...enT) for emotion typen.
We first apply KLB to find the optimal state se-quences for each emotion type.
Then we performan OR function to merge the N state sequences toa global emotion state sequence.MBurst: The method proposed in (Zhao et al.,2012b) for multi-stream burst detection.
MBurstis evaluated on three activity streams in (Zhao etal., 2012b).
Here we apply MBurst to the N emo-tion streams.
Then we perform an OR function tomerge the N state sequences to a global emotionstate sequence.6 Experimental Results6.1 Performance Comparison ResultsIn this experiment, we compare our method withdifferent baseline methods as introduced in Sec-tion 5.4.
We use Equation (3) to aggregate com-munity emotion for all the compared methods.The parameter ?0and ?1are empirically set to be5minnenaand0.5maxnena, respectively.
The experimen-tal results are shown in Table 3.Table 3 shows that EmoPeakFind and TopKE-moVari are less effective than other methods.
Thesimple rule used in EmoPeakFind produced manynoisy bursts, leading to low precision.
TopKE-moVari only considers the relative variation of t-wo consecutive time intervals.
The choose ofk is also nontrivial since it is hard to know thenumber of events before the events are identi-fied.
Note that EmoPeakFind and TopKEmoVariare both rule-based methods, while KLB, MBurstand Our Method are state machine based method-s.
This demonstrates that for community-relatedemotion burst detection, it is more appropriate touse a state machine based model.It looks surprising that MBurst performs worsethan KLB, since MBurst is specifically designedTable 5: Performance of different weightingschemes in terms of F-measureCommunityWeighting schemaequal HITS-basedlegal cases 0.517 0.590football 0.674 0.765economy 0.642 0.712singer 0.589 0.665avg 0.605 0.683for multiple streams.
However, MBurst is basedon the assumption that the states of multiplestreams in the same time interval tend to be thesame (i.e., there is positive correlation between t-wo different streams).
This assumption no longerholds in the context of different emotion stream-s. For example, if a negative event occurs in thecommunity, while sad emotion is likely to be in aburst state, happy emotion is not likely to be in aburst state.We can see from Table 3 that our method out-performs the four baselines.
The main reason isthat our burst detection method is based on the se-quence of community emotion distribution.
Mod-eling community emotion as a distribution is moresuitable than modeling several different emotiontypes.We further show some example events detectedby our model in Table 4.
Since the event keyword-s are manually translated from Chinese, one key-word may include more than one English word-s. We can see that community emotion can helpto detect emotionally significant events for differ-ent communities.
For example, the ?legal cases?community is in a strong anger emotional state onDecember 25, 2010, which indicates an importantevent ?Qian Yunhui?s case?.6.2 Effect of Emotion Aggregation FunctionsIn this experiment, we show the importance of cor-rectly aggregation community level emotion forcommunity-related event detection.
We comparethe two aggregation approaches introduced in sec-tion 4.2.
The first approach assigns equal weight toeach community users, while the second approachassigns weights to users based on their authoritiesin the community.The performance in terms of F-measure isshown in Table 5.
It is obvious that, for all commu-1165Table 4: Examples of events and the corresponding community emotions for two communities.
The fouremotion types (happy, anger, sad and fear) are mapped to green, red, blue and yellow color, respectively.Community Date Emotion Event keywordslegal cases25/12/2010 Qian Yunhui, village head, Yueqing, run over, Zhejiang22/4/2011Yao Jiaxin, death penalty, first instance, Xi?an,intentional killing9/5/2011 Xia Junfeng, final judgment, death penalty, pedlar, Shenyangfootball2/12/2010 Qatar, 2022, world cup bid, win, FIFA14/2/2011 Ronaldo, retire, legend, football, Brazil29/5/2011 Barcelona, 2011, Champions League final, win, UEFAnities, HITS-based weighting approach perform-s better than equal weighting approach.
Thus wecan conclude that user authority is important whenaggregating community emotion.We further perform an empirically analysis ofthe events that successfully identified by HITS-based approach but failed by equal weighting ap-proach.
By manually analyzing the microblogmessages of the corresponding time intervals, wefound that most of the errors of equal weightingapproach were caused by emotion spam.
Users oflow authority post many microblog messages withextreme emotion to claim the attention of the com-munity.
Since there is no significant community-related events at that time interval, we do not ob-serve emotional changes of the high authority us-es.
In the equal weighting method, the existenceof emotion spam lead to wrong result of com-munity emotion.
Since the weights of users whopost emotion spam are small in the HITS-basedapproach, they have little effect on the communi-ty emotion.
This is the main reason why HITS-based weighting method is more effective than e-qual weighting method.6.3 Parameter SensitivityIn this experiment, we test the sensitivity ofour model by different choices of the param-eters ?0and ?1.
?0minnenais set to be[2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8] and ?1maxnenais set to be[0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8].
The event detec-tion results of different parameter settings areshown in Figure 4.It can be seen from Figure 4 that: 1) The per-formance is relatively good in a particular rangeof the parameters.
When2minnena?
?0?7minnenaand0.3maxnena?
?1?0.7maxnena, the F-measure isDOSKDB   DOSKDB                 24680.30.40.50.60.70.80.60.40.2?
0mineaF-measure?1mineaFigure 4: F-measure of our method for event de-tection in different parameter settingsconsistently larger than 0.55.
2) In general, theperformance is more sensitive to ?1than to ?0.Note that ?1controls the generation process ofthe emotion distribution when the community is inthe ?emotion burst?
state, thus it is relatively moreimportant to tune ?1than ?0.
The experimentalresults demonstrates that when0.3maxnena?
?1?0.7maxnena, the performance can be relatively good.7 ConclusionMicroblog has become a popular and convenien-t platform for people to share information aboutsocial events in real time.
In this paper, we focuson the problem of community-related event detec-tion by community emotions.
We propose a novelmethod to compute community-level emotion byconsidering the user authority in the communitynetwork.
Then we present an effective emotionburst detection algorithm for the community emo-tion distribution sequence.We evaluate our approach on real microblogdata sets.
Experimental results demonstrate thatit is important to take into account the user au-thority when aggregating community emotion for1166community-related event detection.
Our emotionburst detection algorithm also achieves better per-formance than several baseline methods.AcknowledgmentsThe authors would like to thank the anony-mous reviewers for their insightful commentsand suggestions.
This research is support-ed by the National High Technology Researchand Development Program of China (Grant No.2012AA011002), Natural Science Foundation ofChina (Grant No.
61300003).
This researchis partially supported by General Research Fundof Hong Kong (417112), Shenzhen FundamentalResearch Program (JCYJ20130401172046450)and Shenzhen International Cooperation FundingGJHZ20120613110641217.
This work is partial-ly supported by Huawei Noah?s Ark Lab, HongKong.
The contact author of this paper, accordingto the meaning given to this role by Peking Uni-versity, is Wei Chen.ReferencesApoorv Agarwal, Boyi Xie, Ilia Vovsha, Owen Ram-bow, and Rebecca Passonneau.
2011.
Sentimentanalysis of twitter data.
In Proceedings of the Work-shop on Languages in Social Media, pages 30?38.Association for Computational Linguistics.Cuneyt Gurcan Akcora, Murat Ali Bayir, Murat Demir-bas, and Hakan Ferhatosmanoglu.
2010.
Identify-ing breakpoints in public opinion.
In Proceedings ofthe First Workshop on Social Media Analytics, pages62?66.
ACM.Sigal G Bars?ade and Donald E Gibson.
1998.
Groupemotion: A view from top and bottom.
Research onManaging Groups and Teams, 1:81?102.Hila Becker, Mor Naaman, and Luis Gravano.
2010.Learning similarity metrics for event identificationin social media.
In Proceedings of the third ACM in-ternational conference on Web search and data min-ing, pages 291?300.
ACM.Adam Bermingham and Alan F. Smeaton.
2010.
Clas-sifying sentiment in microblogs: is brevity an advan-tage?
In CIKM, pages 1833?1836.David M. Blei, Andrew Y. Ng, and Michael I. Jordan.2003.
Latent dirichlet allocation.
Journal of Ma-chine Learning Research, 3:993?1022.Dmitry Davidov, Oren Tsur, and Ari Rappoport.
2010.Enhanced sentiment learning using twitter hashtagsand smileys.
In COLING (Posters), pages 241?249.Alec Go, Richa Bhayani, and Lei Huang.
2009.
Twit-ter sentiment classification using distant supervision.CS224N Project Report, Stanford, pages 1?12.Xia Hu, Jiliang Tang, Huiji Gao, and Huan Liu.2013.
Unsupervised sentiment analysis with emo-tional signals.
In WWW, pages 607?618.Long Jiang, Mo Yu, Ming Zhou, Xiaohua Liu, andTiejun Zhao.
2011.
Target-dependent twitter sen-timent classification.
In ACL, pages 151?160.Jon M Kleinberg.
1999.
Authoritative sources ina hyperlinked environment.
Journal of the ACM(JACM), 46(5):604?632.Jon Kleinberg.
2003.
Bursty and hierarchical structurein streams.
Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery,7(4):373?397.Zhenhui Li, Ding Zhou, Yun-Fang Juan, and JiaweiHan.
2010.
Keyword extraction for social snippets.In Proceedings of the 19th international conferenceon World wide web, pages 1143?1144.
ACM.Kun-Lin Liu, Wu-Jun Li, and Minyi Guo.
2012.
E-moticon smoothed language models for twitter sen-timent analysis.
In AAAI.Bing Liu.
2012.
Sentiment analysis and opinion min-ing.
Synthesis Lectures on Human Language Tech-nologies, 5(1):1?167.Michael Mathioudakis and Nick Koudas.
2010.
Twit-termonitor: trend detection over the twitter stream.In Proceedings of the 2010 ACM SIGMOD Inter-national Conference on Management of data, pages1155?1158.
ACM.Thin Nguyen, Dinh Q. Phung, Brett Adams, and SvethaVenkatesh.
2013.
Event extraction using behaviorsof sentiment signals and burst structure in social me-dia.
Knowl.
Inf.
Syst., 37(2):279?304.Alexander Pak and Patrick Paroubek.
2010.
Twitter asa corpus for sentiment analysis and opinion mining.In LREC.Bo Pang and Lillian Lee.
2008.
Opinion mining andsentiment analysis.
Foundations and trends in infor-mation retrieval, 2(1-2):1?135.Alan Ritter, Oren Etzioni, Sam Clark, et al.
2012.Open domain event extraction from twitter.
In Pro-ceedings of the 18th ACM SIGKDD internationalconference on Knowledge discovery and data min-ing, pages 1104?1112.
ACM.Takeshi Sakaki, Makoto Okazaki, and Yutaka Matsuo.2010.
Earthquake shakes twitter users: real-timeevent detection by social sensors.
In WWW, pages851?860.Eliot R Smith, Charles R Seger, and Diane M Mackie.2007.
Can emotions be truly group level?
evidenceregarding four conceptual criteria.
Journal of per-sonality and social psychology, 93(3):431.1167Michael Speriosu, Nikita Sudan, Sid Upadhyay, and Ja-son Baldridge.
2011.
Twitter polarity classificationwith label propagation over lexical links and the fol-lower graph.
In EMNLP, pages 53?63.Jianshu Weng and Bu-Sung Lee.
2011.
Event detec-tion in twitter.
In ICWSM.Jichang Zhao, Li Dong, Junjie Wu, and Ke Xu.
2012a.Moodlens: an emoticon-based sentiment analysissystem for chinese tweets.
In KDD, pages 1528?1531.Wayne Xin Zhao, Baihan Shu, Jing Jiang, Yang Song,Hongfei Yan, and Xiaoming Li.
2012b.
Identifyingevent-related bursts via social media activities.
InProceedings of the 2012 Joint Conference on Empir-ical Methods in Natural Language Processing andComputational Natural Language Learning, pages1466?1477.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.1168
