Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 1391?1395,October 25-29, 2014, Doha, Qatar.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsPredicting Dialect Variation in Immigrant ContextsUsing Light Verb ConstructionsA.
Seza Do?gru?ozNetherlands Institute for Advanced StudyWassenaar, Netherlandsa.s.dogruoz@gmail.comPreslav NakovQatar Computing Research InstituteTornado Towerfloor 10, P.O.
Box 5825, Doha, Qatarpnakov@qf.org.qaAbstractLanguages spoken by immigrants changedue to contact with the local languages.Capturing these changes is problematic forcurrent language technologies, which aretypically developed for speakers of thestandard dialect only.
Even when dialec-tal variants are available for such technolo-gies, we still need to predict which di-alect is being used.
In this study, we dis-tinguish between the immigrant and thestandard dialect of Turkish by focusing onLight Verb Constructions.
We experimentwith a number of grammatical and contex-tual features, achieving over 84% accuracy(56% baseline).1 IntroductionHuman languages are in constant evolution, drivenin part by contact with other languages (Uriel,1953; Thomason, 2008).
In immigrant contexts,bilingual and multilingual speakers act as agentsof change by transmitting borrowed words and ex-pressions across languages (Grosjean, 2014).
De-pending on social factors such as duration and in-tensity of contact with the local languages, large-scale spread of borrowed elements could lead todifferences between the contact and non-contactdialects of the same language (Winford, 2005).For example, Spanish spoken by immigrants inUSA sounds different in comparison to Spanishspoken in South America (Corval?an, 2003).In this study, we focus on the immigrant di-alect of Turkish as spoken in the Netherlands(NL-Turkish), which differs from Turkish spo-ken in Turkey (TR-Turkish).
In contact situa-tions, it is common for verbs to be borrowedacross languages and integrated as nominal com-plements of Light Verb Constructions (LVCs) (Ed-wards and Gardner-Chloros, 2007; Butt, 2010).NL-Turkish LVCs are changing due to Dutch in-fluence (Do?gru?oz and Backus, 2007; Do?gru?oz andBackus, 2009; Do?gru?oz and Gries, 2012).
How-ever, assessing Dutch influence is not always easysince NL-Turkish LVCs still co-exist with the TR-Turkish LVCs.
This study aims to automaticallyidentify the features that can distinguish betweenNL-Turkish and TR-Turkish LVCs.Our study would benefit Machine Translationsystems targeting dialectal variation.
It differsfrom studies concerning the well-established di-alectal variations of Arabic, e.g., Levantine, Gulf,Egyptian, Maghrebi (Salloum and Habash, 2012),EU vs. Brazilian Portuguese (Marujo et al., 2011)or Turkish vs. Tatar (Altintas and Cicekli, 2002).In contrast, we are interested in developing lan-guage technologies for immigrant dialects, whichare often understudied and lack written resourcesdue to their unofficial status.
When immigrantspeakers face communication difficulties (e.g., bu-reaucratic affairs with the local officials, teacher-parent meetings, doctor-patient conversations) inthe local languages (e.g., Dutch) of the host coun-try, they are often provided with translation equiv-alents in the standard dialect (e.g., TR-Turkish)of their native languages.
However, these trans-lations ignore the evolution of the immigrant di-alect.1By identifying the differences between twodialects of the same variety, we aim to improveMachine Translation systems targeting immigrantspeakers.
Our contributions are the following:?
We are the first to predict on-going dialectvariation in immigrant contexts as opposed tostudying established dialect variations.?
We are also the first to compare bilingualLVCs with the monolingual ones across twodialects of the same language.1One of the authors failed the driving test in the Nether-lands due to the dialect variation in the Turkish translation.1391?
Our comparison of grammatical versus con-textual features reveals context to be muchmore important.?
We experiment with LVCs extracted fromnatural spoken data rather than relying on iso-lated occurences, out of context.2 MethodWe follow Baldwin and Kim (2010) and Butt(2010) in their definitions of LVCs, which statethat there is a unity between the nominal and theverbal complements, but the meaning of the verbis somewhat bleached.
In this study, we focuson Turkish LVCs with the verbal complements ofyapmak/etmek, which both can be translated as?make/do?.
LVCs with these verbal complementsare undergoing change in NL-Turkish (Do?gru?ozand Backus, 2009).We experiment with the following features topredict NL-Turkish vs. TR-Turkish LVCs.2.1 Nominal FeaturesIn addition to traditional LVCs (e.g.
[?ut?u yap-mak] ?iron do?
(to iron) with both complementsof Turkish origins), there is also foreign influ-ence on Turkish LVCs.
Section 2.1.1 describesthe foreign influence on both NL-Turkish and TR-Turkish nominal complements based on their ety-mological origins.2.1.1 Influence on Nominal ComplementsDutch Influence In example (1), the Dutch verboverplaats is nominalized through the infinitivemarker (-en) and precedes the Turkish verb yap-mak to form a Turkish-Dutch bilingual LVC.Example 1:O arkadas?
[overplaats-en yap-?l-acak-t?.
]That friend [replace-inf2do-pass-fut-past].That friend would have been replaced.In addition to borrowing nominalized Dutchverbs to form bilingual LVCs, Dutch LVCs arealso translated as a chunk into NL-Turkish.
Thesetranslated LVCs sound unconventional to TR-Turkish speakers (Do?gru?oz and Gries, 2012).
Inexample (2), the LVC [s?nav yapmak] ?exam do?is a literal translation of the Dutch [examen doen]?exam-pl do?, which is used to describe how stu-dents take high school exams to graduate.2acc: accusative, fut:future, inf:infinitive, past:past tense,part: participle, pres: present tense, pl: plural, poss: poss-esive, prog:progressive tense, sg: singularIn a similar context, TR-Turkish speakers wouldhave used [s?nav-a girmek] ?exam enter?
instead.These LVCs are also classified as having their ori-gins in another language.Example 2:?Uc?
g?und?ur [s?nav yap-?yor-uz].Three day [exam do-prog-1pl].We are having exams for the last three days.Other Foreign Influences Although Dutch in-fluence is clearly present in NL-Turkish LVCs,TR-Turkish LVCs are also not free of foreign in-fluence.
We have come across Arabic, Persian,French and English influences on Turkish LVCswith nominalized foreign verbs or literally trans-lated LVCs as chunks.
Example (3) illustrates howa borrowed Arabic verb (hitap, ?address?)
is in-tegrated as a nominal complement into a TurkishLVC [hitap etmek] ?address do?.Example 3:Hoca-m diye [hitap edi-yo-z] biz.Teacher-poss.1sg like [address do-prog-1pl]we.We address (him) as the teacher.Example (4) illustrates how an English LVC [dosports] is borrowed into Turkish as a chunk [sporyapmak] ?sports do?.Example 4:Yaz?n [spor yap-?yo-z].summer spor do-prog-1plWe do sports in summer.We have identified the etymological origins ofLVCs in both corpora using an online etymolog-ical dictionary.3Although LVCs of Dutch originonly occur in NL-Turkish, LVCs borrowed fromother languages (e.g., Arabic, English, French) oc-cur both in NL-Turkish and in TR-Turkish.2.1.2 Case MarkingWe also came across Turkish [N V] constructionswith ?yapmak?
and ?etmek?
where the nominalcomplement acts as the object of the verb.Turkish marks the direct objects with accusativecase marking if they are definite (Enc?, 1991).
Inexample (5), the nominal element is the object ofthe verb, and thus it has the accusative marker.Example 5:Ben kendi [is?-im-i yap-?yor-um.
]I own [work-poss.1sg-acc do-prog-1sg].I do my own work.3http://www.nisanyansozluk.com/1392However, indefinite objects of the verb are leftunmarked for case.
In example (6), yapmak takesan indefinite object (food) as the complement.
Theboundary between [N V] constructions with in-definite nominal objects and LVCs are somewhatblurry.
In both cases, the meaning of the verbalcomplement is bleached out and the nominal com-plement weighs heavier than the verbal one.
Wewill not dwell further on this subtle distinction, butwe plan future work on this topic following Cooket al.
(2007) and Vincze et al.
(2013).Example 6:Bazen [yemek yap-ar-d?-m]Sometimes [food do-pres-past-1sg]I used to sometimes prepare food.Since Dutch does not mark objects of the verbmorphologically, NL-Turkish speakers have diffi-culty (e.g., unnecessary addition or omission ofcase markers) in determining the definiteness ofthe nominal complements in [N V] constructions(Do?gru?oz and Backus, 2009).
Therefore, we ex-pect this feature to differentiate well between NL-Turkish and TR-Turkish [N V] constructions andLVCs with yapmak/etmek as verbal complements.2.2 Verbal Complements2.2.1 FinitenessThe verbs in LVCs are assumed to be flexible forinflection (Baldwin and Kim, 2010).
However, weknow little about how fineteness contributes to theformation of LVCs.
To the best of our knowledge,finiteness has not been tested as a feature for iden-tifying LVCs earlier.
Therefore, we encoded thefiniteness on yapmak/etmek as a binary (yes/no)feature in both data sets.
Example (7) illustrates anon-finite LVC where the verb stem (et) is accom-panied with an infinitive marker (-mek).Example 7:Misafir-ler-e [ikram et-mek] ic?in al-d?-kGuest-pl-dat [serve do-inf.]
for buy-past-1plWe bought (it) to serve the guests.2.2.2 TypeNL-Turkish speakers could use other light verbsthan TR-Turkish speakers for the same LVC con-struction.
In example (8), the NL-Turkish speakeruses [do?gum etmek] ?birth do?
instead of [do?gumyapmak] ?birth do?, which is commonly preferredby TR-Turkish speakers.
To capture this differ-ence between the two dialects, we include the verbtype as a feature as well.Example 8:Orda kad?n [do?gum et-ti].There lady [birth do-past].The lady gave birth there.2.3 Word Order in LVCsTo the best of our knowledge, the influence ofword order in LVCs has not been investigated asa feature.
Although Turkish has a relatively flexi-ble constituent order, object-verb (OV) is the mostfrequent word order for both NL-Turkish and TR-Turkish (Do?gru?oz and Backus, 2007).
NL-Turkishspeakers have adopted Dutch word order verb-object (VO) for some syntactic constructions, butwe know little about the word order variation forLVCs.
Encoding the word order of LVCs as abinary feature (OV vs. VO) could give us cluesabout differences or similarities of LVC use in NL-Turkish and in TR-Turkish.
In example (9), thenominal complement (one thing) follows the ver-bal complement instead of preceding it as seen inearlier examples.Example 9:[Yap-acak bir s?ey] yok.[Do-part.
one thing] exist.notThere is nothing to do.2.4 ContextSo far, most studies were carried out ignoringthe context of LVCs but focusing on their inher-ent grammatical features (e.g., lexical, syntactic,semantic or morphological).
However, the con-text of an utterance could potentially provide addi-tional useful cues.
Since our data comes from nat-ural conversations, we also experimented with thecontextual information (words surrounding LVCs)as a feature for both data sets.3 DataOur data comes from spoken NL-Turkish (46speakers from the Netherlands, 74,461 words)and TR-Turkish (22 speakers from Turkey, 28,731words) corpora collected by one of the authors.LVC?s are automatically extracted from the datausing their stem forms (?yap-?, ?et-?
without theinfinitive -mEk).
Table 1 illustrates the frequencyof [N V] constructions with etmek and yapmak inboth data sets.# etmek # yapmak # TotalNL-Turkish 449 543 992TR-Turkish 527 755 1282Total 976 1298Table 1: Distribution of etmek and yapmak.13934 ExperimentsOur aim is to build a classifier that can determinewhether a particular utterance containing an LVC(with the verbs yapmak or etmek) is uttered by anNL-Turkish or a TR-Turkish speaker.We make use the following features in ourclassifier: (1) words from the context of theLVCs, (2) type of the light verb (yapmak oretmek), (3) the nominal complements, (4) finite-ness of the verb (finite/non-finite), (5) casemarking on the nominal complement (yes/no),(6) word order (VO/OV), and (7) etymolog-ical origins of the nominal complement (Ara-bic/Dutch/French/English/Persian/Turkish/mixed).For the contextual features, we experiment withtwo models: (a) we distinguish between a wordextracted from the context to the left or to the rightof the verb (yapmak or etmek) in the feature space,and (b) we do not make a distinction in terms ofcontext.
The reason to experiment with option(a) is due to the potential importance of the wordorder.
While the word order variation is alreadymodeled through feature (6), we also include thecontext as an additional feature to test its effect.On the down side, adding context doubles the fea-ture space size and could lead to data sparsenessissues.
For the context words, we did not filter outstopwords since they are part of natural speech.For our experiments, we used an SVM classifieras implemented in LibSVM.
We used a linear ker-nel; more complex kernels did not help.
We reportresults for a 5-fold cross-validation.5 ResultsTable 2 illustrates the results of our experiments.All models outperform the majority class base-line of always predicting TR-Turkish (which is56.38% accuracy) by a sizable margin.
Further-more, splitting the context into left/right yields ap-proximately 1.5% absolute drop in accuracy.Split the Context?Features Left vs.
Right No SplitBaseline 56.38Full model 82.81 84.30no context 70.67no nominal complements 82.19 83.64no info about etymol.
origin 82.10 83.99no finiteness 83.03 84.35no case marking info 82.76 84.43no word order info 82.89 84.43no verb type 82.94 84.39Table 2: Cross-validation accuracy (5 folds).The lower part of the table shows the resultswhen turning off each of the feature types.
Thecontext seems to be the most important featuresince its exclusion leads to a drop from low-to-mid eighties to about 70% accuracy.
Except thenominal complements and the information aboutetymological origins, most other features seem tohave marginal impact on accuracy.
Excluding thetwo features (nominal complements and etymo-logical origins) lead to approximately 0.5% ab-solute drop in accuracy.
The impact of the lastfour features in the table is tiny; excluding someof them even leads to a tiny improvement.Overall, we can conclude that by far the mostimportant features are the context features (with-out the left/right context split).
The other use-ful features are the nominal complements and theinformation about the etymological origin of theborrowed LVCs.
The remaining four linguisticfeatures seem to be largely irrelevant.6 Conclusion and Future WorkLanguage technologies are usually developed forstandard dialects, ignoring the linguistic differ-ences in other dialects such as those in immigrantcontexts.
One of the reasons for this is the dif-ficulty of assessing and predicting linguistic dif-ferences across dialects.
This is similar to ef-forts to translate well-established Arabic dialects(Bakr et al., 2008; Sawaf, 2010), or to adapt be-tween Brazilian and European Portuguese (Marujoet al., 2011), Czech?Slovak (Haji?c et al., 2000),Spanish?Portuguese (Nakov and Ng, 2009; Nakovand Ng, 2012), Turkish?Crimean Tatar (Altintasand Cicekli, 2002), Irish?Scottish Gaelic (Scan-nell, 2006), Bulgarian?Macedonian (Nakov andTiedemann, 2012), Malay?Indonesian (Wang etal., 2012) or Mandarin?Cantonese (Zhang, 1998).In this work, we have built a classifier that usesLVCs to differentiate between two different Turk-ish dialects: standard and immigrant.
The resultsindicate that contextual features are most usefulfor this task.
Although this requires further inves-tigation, we can explain it by the thousands of fea-tures context generates: each contextual word is afeature.
Thus, it is very hard for our grammaticalfeatures to compete against contextual features butthey do have an impact.We are planning to extend our study to dialectsin other immigrant settings (e.g., Turkish in Ger-many) and to other types of multiword expressions(e.g., [N N] compounds).1394ReferencesKemal Altintas and Ilyas Cicekli.
2002.
A machinetranslation system between a pair of closely relatedlanguages.
In Proceedings of the 17th InternationalSymposium on Computer and Information Sciences,ISCIS ?02, pages 192?196, Orlando, FL, USA.Hitham Abo Bakr, Khaled Shaalan, and IbrahimZiedan.
2008.
A hybrid approach for convertingwritten Egyptian colloquial dialect into diacritizedArabic.
In Proceedings of the 6th InternationalConference on Informatics and Systems, INFOS ?08,Cairo, Egypt.Timothy Baldwin and Su Nam Kim, 2010.
In NitinIndurkhya and Fred J. Damerau (eds.
), Handbookof Natural Language Processing, chapter Multiwordexpressions, pages 267?292.
CRC Press, Boca Ra-ton, USA, second edition.Miriam Butt, 2010.
In Mengistu Amberber, BrettBaker, and Mark Harvey (eds.
), Complex predi-cates: cross-linguistic perspectives on event struc-ture, chapter The light verb jungle: still hackingaway, pages 48?78.
Cambridge University Press.Paul Cook, Afsaneh Fazly, and Suzanne Stevenson.2007.
Pulling their weight: Exploiting syntacticforms for the automatic identification of idiomaticexpressions in context.
In Proceedings of MWE ?07,pages 41?48, Prague, Czech Republic.Carmen Silva Corval?an.
2003.
Otra mirada a la ex-presi?on del sujeto como variable sint?actica.
Lengua,variaci?on y contexto: Estudios dedicados a Hum-berto L?opez Morales, 2:849?860.A.
Seza Do?gru?oz and Ad Backus.
2007.
Postverbal el-ements in immigrant Turkish: Evidence of change?International Journal of Bilingualism, 11(2):185?220.A.
Seza Do?gru?oz and Ad Backus.
2009.
Innova-tive constructions in Dutch Turkish: An assessmentof ongoing contact-induced change.
Bilingualism:Language and Cognition, 12(01):41?63.A.
Seza Do?gru?oz and Stefan Gries.
2012.
Spread ofon-going changes in an immigrant language: Turk-ish in the Netherlands.
Review of Cognitive Linguis-tics, 10(2).Malcolm Edwards and Penelope Gardner-Chloros.2007.
Compound verbs in codeswitching: Bilin-guals making do?
International Journal of Bilin-gualism, 11(1):73?91.M?urvet Enc?.
1991.
The semantics of specificity.
Lin-guistic Inquiry, 22(1):1?25.Franc?ois Grosjean.
2014.
Bicultural bilinguals.
Inter-national Journal of Bilingualism, pages 1?15.Jan Haji?c, Jan Hric, and Vladislav Kubo?n.
2000.
Ma-chine translation of very close languages.
In Pro-ceedings of ANLP ?00, pages 7?12, Seattle, WA,USA.Lu?
?s Marujo, Nuno Grazina, Tiago Lu?
?s, Wang Ling,Lu?
?sa Coheur, and Isabel Trancoso.
2011.
BP2EP -adaptation of Brazilian Portuguese texts to EuropeanPortuguese.
In Proceedings of EAMT ?11, pages129?136, Leuven, Belgium.Preslav Nakov and Hwee Tou Ng.
2009.
Improvedstatistical machine translation for resource-poor lan-guages using related resource-rich languages.
InProceedings of EMNLP ?09, pages 1358?1367, Sin-gapore.Preslav Nakov and Hwee Tou Ng.
2012.
Improvingstatistical machine translation for a resource-poorlanguage using related resource-rich languages.
J.Artif.
Intell.
Res.
(JAIR), 44:179?222.Preslav Nakov and J?org Tiedemann.
2012.
Combin-ing word-level and character-level models for ma-chine translation between closely-related languages.In Proceedings of ACL ?12, Jeju Island, Korea.Wael Salloum and Nizar Habash.
2012.
Elissa: A di-alectal to standard Arabic machine translation sys-tem.
In Proceedings of COLING ?12, pages 385?392, Mumbai, India.Hassan Sawaf.
2010.
Arabic dialect handling in hybridmachine translation.
In Proceedings of AMTA ?10,Denver, Colorado.Kevin Scannell.
2006.
Machine translation forclosely related language pairs.
In Proceedings of theLREC 2006 Workshop on Strategies for developingmachine translation for minority languages, pages103?107, Genoa, Italy.Sarah Thomason.
2008.
Social and linguistic factorsas predictors of contact-induced change.
Journal oflanguage contact, 2(1):42?56.Weinreich Uriel.
1953.
Languages in contact: Find-ings and problems.
Publications of the LinguisticCircle of New York, vol.
1.Veronika Vincze, Istv?an Nagy, and Rich?ard Farkas.2013.
Identifying English and Hungarian light verbconstructions: A contrastive approach.
In Proceed-ings of ACL ?13, pages 255?261, Sofia, Bulgaria.Pidong Wang, Preslav Nakov, and Hwee Tou Ng.2012.
Source language adaptation for resource-poormachine translation.
In Proceedings of EMNLP-CoNLL ?12, pages 286?296, Jeju Island, Korea.Donald Winford.
2005.
Contact-induced changes:Classification and processes.
Diachronica,22(2):373?427.Xiaoheng Zhang.
1998.
Dialect MT: a case study be-tween Cantonese and Mandarin.
In Proceedings ofthe COLING ?98, pages 1460?1464, Montreal, Que-bec, Canada.1395
