Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 2094?2104,October 25-29, 2014, Doha, Qatar.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsResolving Referring Expressions in Conversational Dialogs forNatural User InterfacesAsli Celikyilmaz, Zhaleh Feizollahi, Dilek Hakkani-Tur, Ruhi SarikayaMicrosoftasli@ieee.org, zhalehf@microsoft.comdilek@ieee.org, ruhi.sarikaya@microsoft.comAbstractUnlike traditional over-the-phone spokendialog systems (SDSs), modern dialogsystems tend to have visual rendering onthe device screen as an additional modal-ity to communicate the system?s responseto the user.
Visual display of the system?sresponse not only changes human behav-ior when interacting with devices, but alsocreates new research areas in SDSs.
On-screen item identification and resolutionin utterances is one critical problem toachieve a natural and accurate human-machine communication.
We pose theproblem as a classification task to cor-rectly identify intended on-screen item(s)from user utterances.
Using syntactic, se-mantic as well as context features from thedisplay screen, our model can resolve dif-ferent types of referring expressions withup to 90% accuracy.
In the experiments wealso show that the proposed model is ro-bust to domain and screen layout changes.1 IntroductionTodays natural user interfaces (NUI) for applica-tions running on smart devices, e.g, phones (SIRI,Cortana, GoogleNow), consoles (Amazon FireTV,XBOX), tablet, etc., can handle not only simplespoken commands, but also natural conversationalutterances.
Unlike traditional over-the-phone spo-ken dialog systems (SDSs), user hears and sees thesystem?s response displayed on the screen as anadditional modality.
Having visual access to thesystem?s response and results changes human be-havior when interacting with the machine, creatingnew and challenging problems in SDS.
[System]: How can i help you today ?
[User]: Find non-fiction books by Chomsky.
[System]: (Fetches the following books from database)[User]: ?show details for the oldest production?
or?details for the syntax book?
or?open the last one?
or?i want to see the one on linguistics?
or?bring me Jurafsky?s text book?Table 1: A sample multi-turn dialog.
A list of second turnutterances referring to the last book (in bold) and a new searchquery (highlighted) are shown.Consider a sample dialog in Table 1 between auser and a NUI in the books domain.
After the sys-tem displays results on the screen, the user maychoose one or more of the on-screen items withnatural language utterances as shown in Table 1.Note that, there are multiple ways of referring tothe same item, (e.g.
the last book)1.
To achieve anatural and accurate human to machine conversa-tion, it is crucial to accurately identify and resolvereferring expressions in utterances.
As importantas interpreting referring expressions (REs) is formodern NUI designs, relatively few studies haveinvestigated withing the SDSs.
Those that do fo-cus on the impact of the input from multimodalinterfaces such as gesture for understanding (Bolt,1980; Heck et al., 2013; Johnston et al., 2002),touch for ASR error correction (Huggins-Dainesand Rudnicky, 2008), or cues from the screen(Balchandran et al., 2008; Anastasiou et al., 2012).Most of these systems are engineered for a specific1An item could be anything from a list, e.g.
restaurants,games, contact list, organized in different lay-outs on thescreen.2094task, making it harder to generalize for differentdomains or SDSs.
In this paper, we investigate arather generic contextual model for resolving nat-ural language REs for on-screen item selection toimprove conversational understanding.Our model, which we call FIS (Flexible ItemSelection), is able to (1) detect if the user is re-ferring to any item(s) on the screen, and (2) re-solve REs to identify which items are referred toand score each item.
FIS is a learning based sys-tem that uses information from pair of user utter-ance and candidate items on the screen to modelassociation between them.
We cast the task as aclassification problem to determine whether thereis a relation between the utterance and the item,representing each instance in the training datasetas relational features.In a typical SDS, the spoken language under-standing (SLU) engine maps user utterances intomeaning representation by identifying user?s in-tent and token level semantic slots via a seman-tic parser (Mori et al., 2008).
The dialog man-ager uses the SLU components to decide on thecorrect system action.
For on-screen item selec-tion SLU alone may not be sufficient.
To correctlyassociate the user?s utterance with any of the on-screen items one would need to resolve the rela-tional information between the utterance and theitems.
For instance, consider the dialog in Ta-ble 1.
SLU engine can provide signals to the di-alog model about the selected item, e.g., that ?lin-guistics?
is a book-genre or content, but may notbe enough to indicate which book the user is refer-ring.
FIS module provides additional informationfor the dialog manager by augmenting SLU com-ponents.In ?3, we provide details about our data as wellas data collection and annotation steps.
In ?4, wepresent various syntactic and semantic features toresolve different REs in utterances.
In the exper-iments (?6), we evaluate the individual impact ofeach feature on the FIS model.
We analyze theperformance of the FIS model per each type ofREs.
Finally, we empirically investigate the ro-bustness of the FIS model to domain and displayscreen changes.
When tested on a domain thatis unseen to the training data or on a device thathas a different NUI design, the performance onlyslightly degrades proving its robustness to domainand design changes.2 Related WorkAlthough the problems of modern NUIs on smartdevices are fairly new, RE resolution in naturallanguage has been studied by many in NLP com-munity.Multimodal systems provide a natural and ef-fective way for users to interact with computersthrough multiple modalities such as speech, ges-ture, and gaze.
Since the first appearance of thePut-That-There system (Bolt, 1980), a number ofmultimodal systems have been built, among whichthere are systems that combine speech, point-ing (Neal, 1991), and gaze (Koons et al., 1993),systems that engage users in an intelligent con-versation (Gustafson et al., 2000).
Earlier stud-ies have shown that multimodal interfaces enableusers to interact with computers naturally and ef-fectively (Schober and Clark, 1989; Oviatt et al.,1997).
Considered as part of the situated interac-tive frameworks, many work focus on the prob-lem of predicting how the user has resolved REsthat is generated by the system, e.g., (Clark andWilkes-Gibbs, ; Dale and Viethen, 2009; Giesel-mann, 2004; Janarthanam and Lemon, 2010; Gol-land et al., 2010).
In this work, focusing on smartdevices, we investigate how the system resolvesthe REs in user utterances to take the next correctaction.In (Pfleger and J.Alexandersson, 2006) a refer-ence resolution model is presented for a question-answering system on a mobile, multi-modal inter-face.
Their system has several features to parsethe posed question and keep history of the dia-log to resolve co-reference issues.
Their question-answering model uses gesture as features to re-solve queries such as ?what?s the name of that[pointing gesture] player?
?, but they do not re-solve locational referrals such as ?the middle one?or ?the second harry potter movie?.
Others such as(Funakoshi et al., 2012) resolve anaphoric (?it?
)or exophoric (?this one?)
types of expressions inuser utterances to identify geometric objects.
Inthis paper, we study several types of REs to builda natural and flexible interaction for the user.
(Heck et al., 2013) present an intent predictionmodel enriched with gesture detector to help dis-ambiguate between different user intents related tothe interface.
In (Misu et al., 2014) a situated in-car dialog model is presented to answer drivers?spoken queries about their surroundings (no dis-play screen).
They integrate multi-modal inputs of2095speech, geo-location and gaze.
We investigate avariety of REs for visual interfaces, and analyzeautomatic resolution in a classification task intro-ducing a wide range of syntactic, semantic andcontextual features.
We look at how REs changewith screen layout comparing different devices.To the best of our knowledge, our work is first toanalyze REs from these aspects.3 DataCrowdsourcing services, such as Amazon Me-chanical Turk or CrowdFlower, have been exten-sively used for a variety of NLP tasks (Callison-Burch and Dredze, 2010).
Here we explain howwe collected the raw utterances from Crowd-Flower platform (crowdflower.com).For each HITApp (Human Intelligence TaskApplication), we provide judges with a written ex-planation about our Media App, a SDS built on adevice with a large screen which displays items ina grid style layout, and what this particular sys-tem would do, namely search for books, music,tv and movies media result2Media App returnsresults based on the user query using an alreadyimplemented speech recognition, SLU and dialogengines.
For each HIT, the users are shown a dif-ferent screenshot showing the Media App?s searchresults after a first-turn query is issued (e.g., ?findnon-fiction books by Chomsky?
in Table 1).
Usersare asked to provide five different second turn textutterances for each screenshot.
We launch severalhitapps each with a different prompt to cover dif-ferent REs.3.1 HITApp Types and Data CollectionA grid of media items is shown to the user witha red arrow pointing to the media result we wantthem to refer to (see Fig.
1).
They can ask to play(an album or an audio book), select, or ask detailsabout the particular media item.
Each item in eachgrid layout becomes a different HIT or screenshot.3.1.1 Item Layout and Screen Type VariationThe applications we consider have the followingrow?column layouts: 1?6, 2?6 and 3?6, asshown in Fig.
1 (columns vary depending on thereturned item size).
By varying the layout, we ex-pect the referent of the last and the bottom layeritems to change depending on how many rows, or2Please e-mail the first author to inquire about thedatasets.
(a) A two row display.
(b) A three row display.
(c) Single row display.
(d) Display forcing locationbased referring expressions.Figure 1: Sketches of different HITApp Screens.The red arrows point to the media we want the an-notators to refer.columns exist in the grid.
In addition, phrases like?middle?, or ?center?
would not appear in the datawhen there are only one or two rows.
Also, we ex-pect that the distribution of types of utterances tovary.
For example, in a grid of 1?6, ?the secondone?
makes sense, but not so much on a 2?6 grid.We expect similar change based on the number ofcolumns.We use two kinds of screenshots to collect ut-terances with variations in REs.
The first type ofscreenshots are aimed to bias the users to refer toitems ?directly?
using (full/partial) titles or ?indi-rectly?
using other descriptors, or meta informa-tion such as year the movie is taken, or the au-thor of the book.
To collect utterances that indi-rectly referred to items, we need to show screenshots displaying system results with common ti-tles, eventually forcing the user to use other de-scriptors for disambiguation.
For example, giventhe first turn query ?find harry potter movies?, thesystem returns all the Harry Potter series, all ofwhich contain the words Harry Potter in the title.The user can either refer in their utterance with theseries number, the subtitle (e.g.
The prisoners ofAzkaban) or the location of the movie in the gridor by date, e.g., ?the new one?,Because some media items have long titles, orcontain foreign names that are not easy to pro-nounce, users may chose to refer these items bytheir location on the display, such as ?top right?,?first album?, ?the movie on the bottom left?, etc.The second type of screen shots contains a tem-plate for each layout with no actual media item(Fig.
1(d)) which simply forces user to use loca-tional references.20963.1.2 Interface Design VariationIn order to test our model?s robustness to adifferent screen display on a new device, weemploy an additional collection running anotherapplication named places, designed for hand-held devices.
The places application can assistusers in finding local businesses (restaurants, ho-tels, schools, etc.).
and by nature of the de-vice size can display fewer media items and ar-ranges them in a list (one column).
The num-ber of items on the screen at any given time de-pends on the size of the hand-held device screen.Figure 2: A HitAppscreen of places app.
Itemsreturned by the system re-garding the first-turn utter-ance ?burger places nearme?
?The user can scrolldown to see the restof the results.
Ourcollection displays theitems in a 3, 4, and5-rows per 1 columnlayout as shown inFig.
2.
We use thesame variations inprompts as in ?3.1.
Togenerate the HitAppscreens, we searchfor nearby places, inthe top search engines(Google, Bing) andcollect the results tothe first turn natural language search queries(e.g.,?find me sushi restaurants near me?
).3.2 Data AnnotationWe collect text utterances using our media andplaces application.
Using a similar HitApp welabeled each utterance with a domain, intent andsegments in utterance with slot tags (see Table 2).The annotation agreement, Kappa measure (Co-hen, 1960) is around 85%.
Since we are building arelational model between utterances and each itemon the screen, we ask the annotators to label eachutterance-item as ?0?
or ?1?
indicating if the utter-ance is referring to that item or not.
?1?
meansthe item is the intended one.
?0?
indicates the itemis not intended one or the utterance is not refer-ring to any item on the screen, e.g., new searchquery.
We also ask the annotators to label eachutterance whether they contain locational (spatial)references.Domain Intents (I) & Slotsmovie I: find-movie/director/actor,buy-ticketSlots: name, mpaa-rating (g-rated), date,books I: find-book, buy-book,Slots: name, genre(thriller), author, publisher,music I: find-album, find-song,Slots: song-name, genre, album-type,...tv I: find-tvseries/play/add-to-queue..Slots: name, type(cartoon), show-time....places I: find-place, select-item(first one)..Slots: place-type, rating, nearby(closest)....Table 2: A sample of intents and semantic slot tagsof utterance segments per domain.
Examples forsome slots values are presented in parenthesis asitalicized.3.3 Types of Observed Referring ExpressionsWe observe four main categories of REs in the ut-terances that are collected by varying the promptsand HITApp screens in crowd-sourcing:Explicit Referential : Explicit mentions ofwhole or portions of the title of the item on thescreen, and no other descriptors, e.g.,?show me thedetails of star wars six?
(referring to the item withtitle ?Star wars: Episode VI - Return of the Jedi?
).Implicit Referential : The user refers to theitem using distinguishing features other than thetitle, such as the release or publishing date, writ-ers, actors, image content (describing the item im-age), genre, etc.
?how about the one with KevinSpacey?.Explicit Locational : The user refers to theitem using the grid design, e.g., ?i want to pur-chase the e-book on the bottom right corner?.Implicit Locational : Locational references inrelation to other items on the screen, e.g., ?the sec-ond of Dan Brown?s book?
(showing two of theDan Brown?s book on the same row).4 Feature Extraction for FIS ModelHere, provide descriptions of each set of featuresof FIS model used to resolve each expression.4.1 Similarity Features (SIM)Similarity features represent the lexical overlapbetween the utterance and the item?s title (thatis displayed on the user?s screen) and are mainlyaimed to resolve explicit REs.
We representeach utterance uiand item-title tkas sequence ofwords:ui={wi(1), .
.
.
, wi(ni)}tk={wk(1), .
.
.
, wk(mk)}2097item bigrams <bos> call five guys and fries <eos><bos> fivefive guysguys burgersburgers andand friesfries <eos>Table 3: Bigram overlap between the item ?five guys burg-ers and fries?
and utterance?five guys and fries?.where wi(j) and wk(j) are the jth word in the se-quence.
Since inflectional morphology may makea word appear in an utterance in a different formthan what occurs in the official title, we use boththe word form as it appears in the utterance and inthe item title.
For example, burger and burgers, orwoman and women are considered as four distinctwords and all included in the bag-of-words.
Us-ing this representation we calculate four differentsimilarity measures:Jaccard Similarity: A common feature thatcan represent the ratio of the intersection tothe union of unigrams.
Consider, for instance,ui=?call five guys and fries?
and the item tk=?fiveguys burgers and fries?
in Fig 2.
The Jaccard sim-ilarity S(i,k) is:S(i,k)=1- ( c(ri?
rk)/c(ri?
rk) )where the riand rkare unigrams of uiand tkre-spectively.
c(ri?
rk) is the number of commonwords of uiand tk, c(ri?
rk) is the total unigramvocabulary size between them.
In this case, theS(i,k)=0.66.Orthographic Distance: Orthographic dis-tance represent similarity of two text and can beas simple as an edit distance (Levenshtein dis-tance) between their graphemes.
The Levenshteindistance (Levenshtein, 1965) counts the insertion,deletion and substitution operations that are re-quired to transform an utterance uiinto item?s titletk.Word Order: This feature represents how sim-ilar are the order of words in two text.
Sentencescontaining the same words but in different ordersmay result in different meanings.
We extend Jac-card similarity by defining bigram word vectors riand rkand look for overlapping bigrams as in Ta-ble 3.
Among 6 bigrams between them, only 2are overapping, hence the word-order similarity isS(i,k)=0.33.Word Vector: This feature is the cosine sim-ilarity between the utterance uiand the item-title tkthat measures the cosine of the an-gle between them.
Here, we use the uni-gram word counts to represent the word vec-tors and the word vector similarity is defined as:S(i, k)=(ri?
rk)/?ri??
?rk?.4.2 Knowledge Graph FeaturesThis binary feature is used to represent overlap be-tween utterance and the meta information aboutthe item and is mainly aimed to resolve implicitREs.First, we obtain the meta information aboutthe on-screen items using Freebase (Bollacker etal., 2008), the knowledge graph that containsknowledge about classes (books, movies, ...) andtheir attributes (title, publisher, year-released, ...).Knowledge is often represented as the attributesof the instances, along with values for those prop-erties.
Once we obtain the attribute values ofthe item from Freebase, we check if any attributeoverlaps with part of the utterance.
For instance,given an utterance ?how about the one with KevinSpacey?, and the item-title ?House of Cards?, theknowledge graph attributes include year(2013),cast(Kevin Spacey), director(James Foley),... Weturn the freebase feature ?on?
since the actor at-tribute of that item is contained in the utterance.We also consider partial matches, e.g., last nameof the actor attribute.This feature is also used to resolve implicit REs,with item descriptions, such as ?the messenger boywith bicycle?
referring to the media item Ride LikeHell, a movie about a bike messenger.
The syn-opsis feature in Freebase fires the freebase metafeature as the synopsis includes the following pas-sage: ?...
in which real:::::::::messenger:::::boys are usedas stunts... ?.4.3 Semantic Location Labeler (SLL)FeatureThis feature set captures spatial cues in utterancesand is mainly aimed to resolve explicit locationalREs.
Our goal is to capture the location indicatingtokens in utterances and then resolve the referredlocation on the screen by using an indicator fea-ture.
We implement the SLL (Semantic LocationLabeler), a sequence labeling model to tag loca-tional cues in utterances using Conditional Ran-dom Fields (CRF) (Lafferty et al., 2001).We sampled a set of locational utterances fromeach domain to be used as training set.
Weasked the annotators to label tokens with fourdifferent semantic tags that indicate a location.2098The semantic tags include row and column in-dicator tags, referring to the position or pivotalreference.
For instance, in ?
::::::second from the:::top?, ?second?
is the column-position, and?top?
is the row-pivot, indicating the pivotalreference of the row in a multi-row grid dis-play.
Also in ?
::::third from the:::last?, the ?third?is the column-position, and the ?last?
is thecolumn-pivot, the pivotal reference of the col-umn in a multi-column grid display.
The fourthtag, row-position, is used when the specificrow is explicitly referred, such as in ?the HarryPotter movie in the:::first row?.To train our CRF-based SLL model we usethree types of features: the current word, windowwords e.g., previous-word, next-word, etc., usingfive-window around the current word, and syntac-tic features from the part-of-speech (POS) taggerusing the Stanford?s parser (Klein and Manning,2003).Row Indicator Feature: This feature sets therelationship between the n-gram in an utterance in-dicated by the row-position or row-pivottag and the item?s row number on the screen.
Forinstance, given SSL output row-pivot(?top?
)and item?s location row=1, the value of the featureis set to ?1?.
If no row tag is found by SLL, thisfeature is set to ?0?.
We use regular expressions toparse the numerical indicators, e.g., ?top?=?1?.Column Indicator Feature: Similarly,this feature indicates if a phrase in utteranceindicated by the column-position orcolumn-pivot tag matches the item?s col-umn number on the screen.
If SLL model tagscolumn-pivot(?on the left?
), then using theitem?s column number(=1), the value of thisfeature is set to ?1?.4.4 SLU FeaturesThe SLU (Spoken Language Understanding) fea-tures are used to resolve implicit and explicit REs.For our dialog system, we build one SLU modelper each domain to extract two sets of semantic at-tributes from utterances: user?s intent and seman-tic slots based on a predefined semantic schema(see examples in Table 2).
We use the best in-tent hypothesis as a categorical feature in our FISmodel.
Although FIS is not an intent detectionmodel, the intent from SLU is an effective seman-tic feature in resolving REs.
Consider second turnutterance such as ?weather in seattle?, which isa ?find?
intent that is a new search or not relatedto any item on the screen.
We map SLU intentssuch as find-book or find-place, to more specificones, so that the intent feature would have valuessuch as find, filter, check-time, not specific to adomain or device.
The intent feature helps us toidentify if user?s utterance is related to any itemon the screen.
We also use the best slot hypothesisfrom the SLU slot model and search if there is fulloverlap of any recognized slot value with either theitem-title or the item meta-information from free-base.
In addition, we include the longest slot valuen-gram match as an additional feature.
We adda binary feature per domain, indicating whetherthere is a slot value match.
Because we are us-ing generic intents as categorical features insteadof specific intents, and a slot value match featureinstead of domain specific slot types as features,our models are rather domain independent.5 GBDT ClassifierAmong various classifier learning algorithms, wechoose the GBDT (gradient boosted decision tree)(Friedman, 2001; Hastie et al., 2009), also knownas MART (Multiple Additive Regression Trees).GBDT3is an efficient algorithm which learns anensemble of trees.
We find the main advantageof the decision tree classifier as opposed to othernon-linear classifiers such as SVM (support vec-tor machines) (Vapnik, 1995) or NN (neural net-works) (Bishop, 1995) is the interpretability.
De-cision trees are ?white boxes?
in the sense that per-feature gain can be expressed by the magnitudeof their weights, while SVM or NN?s are gener-ally black boxes, i.e.
we cannot read the acquiredknowledge in a comprehensible way.
Addition-ally, decision trees can easily accept categoricaland continuous valued features.
We also presentthe results of the SVM models.6 ExperimentsWe investigate several aspects of the SISI modelincluding its robustness in resolving REs for do-main or device variability.
We start with the detailsof the data and model parameters.We collect around 16K utterances in the me-dia domains (movies, music, tv, and books) andaround 10K utterances in places (businesses and3Treenet: http://www.salford-systems.com/products/treenet is the implementation of the GBDT which is used inthis paper.2099Movies Tv Music Book Overall Media PlacesFeature Description GBDT SVM GBDT SVM GBDT SVM GBDT SVM GBDT SVM GBDT SVMSLL 79.6 77.1 62.0 62.0 77.1 76.5 63.7 63.0 83.6 82.7 67.9 68.9SIM 86.6 85.7 78.7 74.1 84.9 84.0 81.6 77.3 88.5 88.3 67.1 66.5Knowledge Graph (KG) 81.0 82.0 64.8 65.6 86.3 85.4 77.8 77.9 84.4 84.1 76.5 76.5SLU (Gold) 91.7 91.8 89.1 88.5 87.8 87.5 86.3 84.9 83.7 83.2 77.8 71.1SLU (Pred.)
75.8 72.6 80.3 79.8 84.3 84.1 82.4 82.4 81.4 80.9 71.4 67.8SIM+SLL 90.9 90.2 87.2 87.1 85.9 86.2 88.5 87.6 91.9 91.9 78.9 73.4SIM+SLL+KG 91.7 91.3 89.9 89.1 89.1 87.7 91.4 90.3 93.0 92.7 85.9 82.3SIM+SLL+KG+SLU(Gold) 96.2 95.01 95.2 95.09 90.3 89.9 94.6 94.0 93.7 93.2 86.3 84.3SIM+SLL+KG+SLU(Pred.)
90.9 90.8 92.3 92.00 86.9 85.7 93.1 93.0 89.3 88.9 85.7 83.9Table 5: Performance of the FIS models on test data using different features.
Acc:Accuracy,.
SIM: sim-ilarity features; SLU:Spoken Language Understanding features (intent and slot features); SLL:SemanticLocational Labeler features; Gold: using true intent and slot values, Pred.
: using predicted intent andslot values from the SLU models.Model: Movies TV Music Books PlacesIntent Acc.
84.5% 87.4% 87.6% 98.1% 89.5%Slot F-score 92.1F 89.4F 88.5F 86.6F 88.4FTable 4: The performance of the SLU Engine?sintent detection models in accuracy (Acc.)
and slottagging models in F-Score on the test dataset.locations) domain.
We also construct additionalnegative instances from utterance-item pairs us-ing first turn non-selection queries, which mainlyindicate a new search or starting over.
In totalwe compile around 250K utterance-item pairs formedia domains and 150K utterance-item pairs forthe places domain.4We randomly split each col-lection into 60%-20%-20% parts to construct thetrain/dev/test datasets.
We use the dev set to tunethe regularization parameter for the GBDT andSVM using LIBSVM (Chang and Lin, 2011) withlinear kernel.We use the training dataset to build the SLU in-tent and slot models for each domain.
For the in-tent model, we use the GBDT classifier with n-gram and lexicon features.
The lexicon entries areobtained from Freebase and are used as indicatorvariables, e.g., whether the utterance contains aninstance which exists in the lexicon.
Similarly,we train a semantic slot tagging model using CRFmethod.
We use n-gram features with up to five-gram window, and lexicon features similar to theintent models.
Table 4 shows the accuracy and F-score values of SLU models on the test data.
Theslot and intent performance is consistent accroess4In the final version of the paper, we will provide anno-tated data sets on a web page, which is reserved due to blindreview.domains.
The books domain has only two intentsand hence we observe much better intent perfor-mance compared to other domains.6.1 Impact of Individual FIS FeaturesIn our first experiment, we investigate the impactof individual feature sets on FIS model?s perfor-mance.
We train a set of FIS models on the entiremedia dataset to investigate the per-feature gain onthe test dataset for each domain.
We also train an-other set of FIS models with the same feature sets,this time on the places dataset and present the re-sults on the places test set.
Table 5 shows the re-sults.
We measure the performance starting withindividual feature sets, and then incrementally addeach feature set.
Note that the SLU feature setincludes the categorical intent, binary slot-valuematch and the longest slot value n-gram matchwith the item?s title or meta information.
The SLLfeature set includes two features indicating the rowand column (see ?4.3).As expected, larger gains in accuracy are ob-served when features that resolve different REsare used.
Resolving locational cues in utter-ances with SLL features considerably impacts theperformance when used together with similarity(SIM) features.
We see a positive impact on per-formance as we add the knowledge graph features,which are used to resolve implicit REs.
Usingonly the predicted SLU features in feature gener-ation without golden values degrades the perfor-mance.
Although the results are not statisticallysignificant, the GBDT outperforms the SVM foralmost all models, except for a few models, wherethe results are similar.
However, the models which21000.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1Knowledge-GraphSIM-WordOrderSLLSIM-JaccardSLU-SlotSIM-LevensteinSIM-WordVectorSLU-intentFeature WeightsPlaces Domain N All Media DomainsFigure 3: A sample of normalized feature weights of theGBDT FIS models across domains.combine different features as apposed to individ-ual feature set (the above the line models versusubelow the horizantil line models) are statisticallysignificant (based on the student t-test p?0.01).Next, we illustrate the significance of individualfeatures across domains as well as devices.
Fig.
3compares the normalized feature weights of me-dia and places domains.
Across domains there aresimilar features with similar weight values such asSLU-intent, some similarity features (SIM-) andeven spatial cue features (SLL).
It is not surpris-ing to observe that the places domain knowledge-graph meta feature weights are noticeably largerthan all media model features.
We think that thisis due to the way the REs are used when the de-vice changes (places app is on a phone with asmaller screen display).
Especially, places appli-cation users refer items related to restaurants, li-braries, etc., not so much by their names, but moreso with implicit REs by using: the location (refer-ring to the address: ?call the one on 31 street?)
orcuisine (?Chinese?
), or the star-rating (?with themost stars?
), etc.6.2 Resolution Across REsWe go on to analyze the performance of differ-ent RE types.
A particularly interesting set of er-rors we found from the previous experiments arethose that involve implicit referrals.
Table 6 showsthe distribution of different REs in the collecteddatasets.Some noticeable instances with false positivesfor implicit locational REs include ambiguouscases or item referrals with one of its facets thatrequire further resolution including comparison toother items, e.g., ?the nearest one?.
Table 7 showsfurther examples.
As might be expected, the lo-cational cues are less common compared to otherAll Media PlacesUtterance Type % Acc.
% Acc.All utterances 100% 93.7% 100% 86.3%Direct/Indirect RE 81% 93.9% 73% 86.9%Locational RE 19% 92.5% 28% 85.2%Explicit RE 60% 94.3% 45% 88.4%Implicit RE 21% 83.4% 28% 72.2%Explicit Locational RE 15% 75.2% 24% 86.2%Implicit Locational RE 3% 56.6% 2% 56.7%Table 6: Distribution of referring expressions(RE) in the media (large screen like tv) and places(handheld device like phone) corpus and the FISaccuracies per RE type.Utterance Displayed on screen?the most rated restaurant?
FFF?s next to each item?first thomas crown affair?
original release (vs. remake)?second one over?
(incomplete row/col.
information)Table 7: Display screen as user utters.expressions.
We also confirm that the handheld(places domain) users implicitly refer to the itemsmore commonly compared to media app, and usethe contextual information about the items such astheir location, address, star-rating, etc.
The mod-els are considerably better at resolving explicit re-ferrals (both non-spatial and spatial) compared toimplicit ones.
However, for locational referrals,the difference between the accuracy of implicitand explicit REs is significant (75.2% vs. 56.6%in media and 86.2% vs. 56.7% in places).
Al-though not very common, we observe negative ex-pressions, e.g., ?the one with no reviews?, whichare harder for the FIS to resolve.
They requirequantifying over every other item on the screen,namely the context features, which we leave as afuture work.6.3 New Domains and Device IndependenceIn the series of experiments below, we empiricallyinvestigate the FIS model?s robustness to when anew domain or device is introduced.Robustness to New Domains: So far wetrained media domain FIS models on utterancesfrom all domains.
To investigate how FIS modelswould behave when tested on a new domain, wetrain additional models by leaving out utterancesfrom one domain and test on the left out domain.We used GBDT with all the feature sets.
To setup an upper bound, we also train models on eachindividual domain and test on the same domain.Table 8 shows the performance of the FIS mod-2101Models tested on:Model trained on: Movies TV Music BooksAll domains 96.2% 95.2% 90.3% 94.6%All other domains 94.6% 92.4% 89.7% %Only *this domain 96.4% 96.8% 93.4% %Table 8: Accuracy of FIS models tested on domains thatare: seen at training time (all domains), unseen at trainingtime (all other domains) and trained on individual domains.0 50 1009394959620%% of Movies instances in training data0 50 10094959610%% of TV instances in training data0 50 100899015%% of Music instances in training dataFigure 4: The accuracy (y-axis) versus the percentage (%)of in-domain utterances used in the training dataset.
Thedashed vertical line indicates an optimum threshold for theamount of in-domain data to be added to the training data.els in accuracy on each media test domain.
Thefirst row shows the results when all domains areused at training time (same as in Table 5).
Thesecond row represents models where one domainis unseen at training time.
We notice that the ac-curacy, although degraded for movies and tv do-mains, is in general not significantly effected bythe domain variations.
We setup another experi-ment, where we incrementally add utterances fromthe domain that we are testing the model on.
Forinstance, we incrementally add random samplesfrom movies training utterances on the dataset thatdoes not contain movies utterances and test on allmovies test data.
The charts in Fig.
4 show the% improvement in accuracy as in-domain data isincrementally added to the training dataset.
Theresults are interesting in that, using as low as 10-20% in-domain data is sufficient to build a flexi-ble item selection model given enough utterancesfrom other domains with varying REs.Robustness to a New Device: The differencebetween the vocabulary and language usage ob-served in the data collected from the two devicesMedia?only the new movies?
; ?second one on the left?
?show me the thriller song?
; ?by Lewis Milestone?
?the first harry potter book?Places?directions to Les Schwab tire center?
?the closest one?
;?show me a map of ...?
?get hours of Peking restaurant?
; ?call Mike?s burgers?Table 9: Sample of utterances collected from media andplaces applications illustrating the differences in language us-age.Trained on Tested on Media Tested on PlacesMedia 93.7 % 85.9%Places 85.9% 86.3%Media+Places 92.7% 85.8%Table 10: Accuracy of FIS models tested on two separatedevices (large screen media, and small screen places) that areunseen at test time.is mainly due to changes in: (i) the screen design(places on phone has one column format wheresthe media app has multi-column layout); (ii) thedomain of the data.
Table 9 shows some exam-ples.
Here, we add a little bit of complexity, andtrain one FIS model using the training data col-lected on one device and test the model on a dif-ferent one, which is unseen at training time.
Table10 shows the comparisons for media and phoneinterfaces.
The results are interesting.
The perfor-mance of the places domain on phone does not getaffected when the models are trained on the mediadata and tested on the phone device (86.3% downto 85.9% which is statistically insignificant).
Butwhen the data is trained on the places and testedon the media, we see a rather larger degradationon the performance (93.7% down to 85.9%).
Thisis due to the fact that the media display screensare much complicated compared to phone result-ing in a larger vocabulary with more variation inREs compared to places domain.6.4 ConclusionWe presented a framework for identifying and rec-ognizing referring expressions in user utterancesof human-machine conversations in natural userinterfaces.
We use several on-screen cues to in-terpret whether the user is referring to on-screenitems, and if so, which item is being referred to.We investigate the effect of different set of fea-tures on the FIS models performance.
We alsoshow that our model is domain and device inde-pendent which is very beneficial when new do-2102mains are added to the application to cover morescenarios or when FIS is implemented on new de-vices.
As a future work, we would like to adapt ourmodel for different languages and include otherfeatures from multi modality including gesture orgeo-location.ReferencesDimitr Anastasiou and Cui Jian and DesislavaZhaekova.
2012.
Speech and gesture interaction inan ambient assited living lab.
In.
Proc.
of the 1stWorkshop on Speech and Multimodal Interaction inAssitive Environments at ACL?2012.Rajesh Balchandran, and Mark E. Epstein, and Gerasi-mos Potamianos, and Lsadislav Seredi.
2008.
Amulti-modal spoken dialog system for interactive tv.In.
Proc.
of the 10th International Conference onMultimodal Interfaces.Christopher M. Bishop.
1995.
Neural networks forPattern recognition.Kurt Bollacker and Colin Evans and Praveen Paritoshand Ttim Sturge and Jamie Taylor.
2008.
Free-base: A collaboratively created graph database forstructuring human knowledge.
In.
Proc.
of the 2008International Conference on Management of Data(SIGMOD-08).Richard A. Bolt.
1980.
Put-that-there: Voice and ges-ture at the graphics interface.
Computer Graphics.Chris Callison-Burch and Mark Dredze.
2010.
Cre-ating speech and language data with amazons me-chanical turk.
In.
Proc.
of NAACL.Chih-Chung Chang and Chih-Jen Lin.
2011.
LIB-SVM: A library for support vector machines.
ACMTransactions on Intelligent Systems and Technology,2:27:1?27:27.Herbert H. Clark and Deanna Wilkes-Gibbs.
Referringas colloborative processes.Jacob Cohen.
1960.
A coefficient of agreementfor nominal scales.
Educational and PsychologicalMeasurement, 20.Robert Dale and Jette Viethen.
2009.
Referring ex-pression generation through attribute-based heuris-tics.
In Proc.
of the 12th European Workshop onNatural Language Generation (ENLG).Jerome H. Friedman.
2001.
Greedy function approx-imation: A gradient boosting machine.
Annals ofStatistics, 2001.Kotaro Funakoshi, Mikio Nakano, Takenobu Toku-naga, and Ryu Iida.
2012.
A unified probabilis-tic approach to referring expressions.
In Proc.
ofthe Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialog(SIGDIAL).Petra Gieselmann.
2004.
Reference resolution mecha-nisms in dialogue management.
In Proc.
of the 8thWorkshop on the semantics and pragmatics of dia-logues (CATALOG).Dave Golland, Percy Liang, and Dan Klein.
2010.A game-theoretic approach to generating spatial de-scriptions.
In Proceedings of the 2010 Conferenceon Empirical Methods in Natural Language Pro-cessing, pages 410?419, Cambridge, MA, October.Association for Computational Linguistics.Joakim Gustafson, Linda Bell, Jonas Beskow, JohanBoye, Rolf Carlson, Jens Edlund, Bjorn Granstrom,David House, and Mats Wiren.
2000.
Adapt -a multimodal conversational dialogue system in anapartment domain.
In Proc.
of the 6th InternationalConference on Spoken Language Processing (IC-SLP), pages 134?137.Trevor Hastie, Robert Tibshirani, and Jerome H. Fried-man.
2009.
The Elements of Statistical Learning(2nd ed.)
Chapter 10.
Boosting and Additive Trees,2009.Larry Heck, Dilek Hakkani-Tur, Madhu Chinthakunta,Gokhan Tur, Rukmini Iyer, Partha Parthasarathy,Lisa Stifelman, Elizabeth Shriberg, and Ashley Fi-dler.
2013.
Multi-modal conversational search andbrowse.
In Proc.
of the IEEE Workshop on Speech,Language and Audio in Multimedia.Dvaid Huggins-Daines and Alexander I. Rudnicky.2008.
Interactive asr error correction for touch-screen devices.
In Proc.
of ACL, Demo session.Srinivasan Janarthanam and Oliver Lemon.
2010.Adaptive referring expression generation in spokendialog systems: Evaluation with real users.
In Proc.of SIGDIAL 2010: the 11th Annual Meeting of theSpecial Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue.Mark Johnston, Srinivas Bangalore, GunaranjanVasireddy, Amanda Stent, Patrick Ehlen, MarilynWalker, and Steve Whittaker and Preetam Maloor.2002.
Match: an architecture for multimodal dialogsystems.
In.
Proc.
of the ACL.Dan Klein and Christopher D. Manning.
2003.
Accu-rate unlexicalized parsing.David B. Koons, Carlton J. Sparrell, and Kristinn R.Thorisson.
1993.
Integrating simultaneous inputfrom speech, gaze and hand gestures.
In Proc.
ofthe In Maybury, M.
(Ed.
), Intelligent Multimedia In-terfaces, pages 257?276.John Lafferty, Andrew McCallum, and Fernando C.N.Pereira.
2001.
Conditional random fields: prob-abilistic models for segmenting and labeling se-quence data.
In Proc.
ICML.Vlademir Levenshtein.
1965.
Binary codes capa-ble of correcting deletions, insertions and rever-sals.
In Proc.
of the Doklady Akademii Nauk SSSR,163:845?848.2103Teruhisa Misu, Antoine Raux, Rakesh Gupta, and IanLane.
2014.
Situated language understanding at 25miles per hour.
In.
Proc.
of the SIGDIAL - AnnualMeeting on Discourse and Dialogue.Renato De Mori, Frederic Bechet, Dilek Hakkani-Tur,Michael McTear, Giuseppe Riccardi, and GokhanTur.
2008.
Spoken language understanding: A sur-vey.
IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, 25:50?58.Joseph G. Neal.
1991.
Intelligent multimedia inter-face technology.
In Proc.
of the Intelligent User In-terfaces: In Sullivan, J., and Tyler, S.
(Eds.
), pages45?68.Sharon Oviatt, Antonella DeAngeli, and Karen Khun.1997.
Integration and synchronization of inputmodes during multimodal human-computer interac-tion.
In Proc.
of the Human Factors in ComputingSystems: CHI, pages 415?422.Nobert Pfleger and Jan Alexandersson.
2006.
To-wards resolving referring expressions by implicitlyactivated referents in practical dialog systems.
In.Proc.
of the 10th Workshop on the Semantics andPragmatics of Dialog (SemDial-10).Michael F. Schober and Herbert H. Clark.
1989.
Un-derstanding by addressees and overhearers.
In Proc.of the Cognitive Psychology, pages 211?232.Vlademrr Vapnik.
1995.
The nature of statisticallearning theory.2104
