Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 2105?2114,October 25-29, 2014, Doha, Qatar.
c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsBuilding Chinese Discourse Corpus with Connective-drivenDependency Tree StructureYancui Li1,2 Wenhe Feng2 Jing Sun1 Fang Kong1 Guodong Zhou11Natural Language Processing Lab, School of Computer Science and Technology, SoochowUniversity, Suzhou 215006, China2Henan Institute of Science and Technology, Xinxiang 453003, China{yancuili, wenhefeng}@gmail.com {20104027009, kongfang, gdzhou}@suda.edu.cnAbstractIn this paper, we propose a Connective-driven Dependency Tree (CDT) schemeto represent the discourse rhetoricalstructure in Chinese language, with ele-mentary discourse units as leaf nodesand connectives as non-leaf nodes, large-ly motivated by the Penn DiscourseTreebank and the Rhetorical StructureTheory.
In particular, connectives areemployed to directly represent the hier-archy of the tree structure and the rhetor-ical relation of a discourse, while the nu-clei of discourse units are globally de-termined with reference to the depend-ency theory.
Guided by the CDT scheme,we manually annotate a Chinese Dis-course Treebank (CDTB) of 500 docu-ments.
Preliminary evaluation justifiesthe appropriateness of the CDT schemeto Chinese discourse analysis and theusefulness of our manually annotatedCDTB corpus.1 IntroductionIt is well-known that interpretation of a text re-quires understanding of its rhetorical relationhierarchy since discourse units rarely exist inisolation.
Such discourse structure is fundamen-tal to many text-based applications, such assummarization (Marcu, 2000) and question-answering (Verberne et al., 2007).
Due to thewide and potential use of discourse structure,constructing discourse resources has been at-tracting more and more attention in recent years.In comparison with English, there are muchfewer discourse resources for Chinese whichlargely restricts the researches in Chinese dis-course analysis.The general notion of discourse structuremainly consists of discourse unit, connective,structure, relation and nuclearity.
However, pre-vious studies on discourse failed to fully expressthese kinds of information.
For example, theRhetorical Structure Theory (RST) (Mann andThompson, 1988) represents a discourse as atree with phrases or clauses as elementary dis-course units (EDUs).
However, RST ignores theimportance of connectives to a great extent.
Fig-ure 1 gives an example tree structure with fourEDUs (e1-e4).
In comparison, Penn DiscourseTreebank (PDTB) (Prasad et al., 2008) adoptsthe predicate-argument view of discourse rela-tion, with discourse connective as predicate andtwo text spans as its arguments.
Example (1)shows an explicit reason relation signaled by thediscourse connective ?particularly if?
and animplicit result relation represented by the insert-ed discourse connective ?so?, with Arg1 in ital-ics and Arg2 in bold.
However, as a connectiveand its arguments are determined in a local con-textual window, it is normally difficult to deducea complete discourse structure from such a con-nective-argument scheme.
In this sense, thePDTB at best only provides a partial solution tothe discourse structure.
[Catching up with commercial competitors in retailbanking and financial services,] e1 [they argue,] e2[will be difficult,] e3 [particularly if market condi-tions turn sour.
]e4 e4e2e3conditionsame-unite1-e4e1-e3attributione1-e2e1Figure 1: An example of discourse structure in RSTExample (1): An example of the connective-argumentscheme in PDTBA)[Catching up with commercial competitors in retailbanking and financial services will be difficult ]Arg1,they argue, will be difficult, particularly if [market2105conditions turn sour ] Arg2.
(Contingency.Condition.Hypothetical) (0616)B) So much of the stuff poured into its Austin, Texas,offices [that its mail rooms there simply stopped de-livering it.
]Arg1 (Implicit = so)[Now, thousands ofmailers, catalogs and sales pitches go straight intothe trash.
]Arg2 (Contingency.Cause.
Result) (0989)Obviously, both RST and PDTB have theirown advantages and disadvantages in represent-ing different characteristics of the discoursestructure.
In this paper, we attempt to propose anew scheme to Chinese discourse structure,adopt advantages of the tree structure from RSTand connective from PDTB.
Meanwhile, thespecial characteristics of Chinese discoursestructure are well addressed.First, it is difficult to define EDU in Chinesedue to the frequent occurrence of the ellipsis ofsubjects, objects and predicates, and the lack offunctional marks for EDU.
Second, the connec-tives in Chinese omit much more frequently thanthose in English with about 82.0% vs. 54.5% inZhou and Xue (2012).
In Example (2), there areeven no explicit connectives.
Third, previousstudies have shown the difference in classifyingChinese discourse relations from English (Xing,2001; Huang and Liao, 2011).
This suggests thatthe discourse relations defined for English (bothRST and PDTB) are not readily suitable forChinese.
Finally, the nucleus of a Chinese dis-course relation is normally not directly related toa particular relation type but should be dynami-cally determined from the global meaning of adiscourse.Example (2): An example of discourse with 4 EDUs[       ???
??
??
?
?
?According to reports,Dongguan Customs  total accept??
??
??
???????
]e1 [?
?
?company contract record 8400 plus class, than  pilot?
?
?
???
]e2 [   ??
??
???
]e3before a slight increase, company responses well,[??
??
???
]e4generally acknowledge acceptance.?
[According to reports, Dongguan District Cus-toms accepted more than 8400 records of companycontracts,] e1 [a slight increase from before the pi-lot.
]e2 [Companies responded well,]e3 [generallyacknowledging acceptance.
]e4?In this paper, we present a Connective-drivenDependency Tree (CDT) discourse representa-tion scheme, which takes advantage of both RSTand PDTB, with elementary discourse units(limited to clauses) as leaf nodes and connec-tives as non-leaf nodes.
Especially, we defineEDU from three aspects, and employ the con-nective?
level and semantic to indicate the rhe-torical structure and the discourse relation.
Be-sides, the nuclearity of discourse units in a dis-course relation is decided on the overall dis-course meaning.
On the basis, we adopt the CDTscheme to annotate a certain scale corpus, calledChinese Discourse Treebank (CDTB) thereafterin this paper.
Evaluation shows the appropriate-ness of the CDT scheme to Chinese discourseanalysis.The rest of this paper is organized as follows.Section 2 overviews related work.
In Section 3,we present the CDT discourse representationscheme.
In Section 4, we describe the annotationof the CDTB corpus.
Section 5 compares CDTBwith other major discourse corpora.
Section 6gives the experimental results on EDU recogni-tion, the crucial step for discourse parsing.
Final-ly, conclusion is given in section 7.2 Related WorkIn the past decade, several discourse corpora forEnglish have emerged, with the RhetoricalStructure Theory Discourse Treebank (RST-DT)(Carlson et al., 2003) and the Penn DiscourseTreebank (PDTB) (Prasad et al., 2008) mostprevalent.In the RST framework, a text is represented asa discourse tree, with non-overlapping text spans(either phrases or clauses) as leaves, and adja-cent nodes are related through particular rhetori-cal relations to form a discourse sub-tree, whichis then related to other adjacent nodes in the treestructure.
According to RST, there are two typesof discourse relations, mononuclear and multi-nuclear.
Figure 1 shows an example of discoursetree representation, following the notationalconvention of RST.
Among the four EDUs (e1-e4), e1 and e2 are connected by a mononuclearrelation ?attribution?, where e1 is the nucleus,the span (e1-e2) and the EDU e3 are furtherconnected by a multi-nuclear relation ?same-unit?, where they are equally salient.
Annotatedaccording to the RST framework, the RST-DTconsists of 385 documents from the Wall StreetJournal (WSJ).
Besides, the original 24 dis-course relations defined by Mann and Thompson(1988) are further divided into a set of 18 rela-tion classes with 78 finer grained rhetorical rela-tions in RST-DT.As the largest discourse corpus so far, thePenn Discourse Treebank (PDTB) contains overone million words from WSJ.
With EDUs lim-ited to clauses, the PDTB adopts the predicate-2106argument view of discourse relations, with con-nective as predicate and two text spans as itsarguments.
Example (1) shows two annotationtokens for the connective ?particularly if?
and?so?.
The current version of PDTB 2.0 annotates40600 tokens, including 18459 explicit relationsof 100 distinct types (e.g.
?particularly if?
and?if?
are the same type) and 16224 implicit dis-course relations of 102 distinct token types.
Be-sides, PDTB provides a three level hierarchy ofrelation tags with the first level consisting offour major relation classes (Temporal, Contin-gency, Comparison, and Expansion), which arefurther divided into 16 types and 23 subtypes.In comparison, there are few researches onChinese discourse annotation (Xue, 2005a; Chen,2006; Yue, 2008; Huang and Chen, 2011; Zhouand Xue, 2012), with no exception employingexisting RST or PDTB frameworks.
For exam-ple, Zhou and Xue (2012) use the PDTB annota-tion guidelines to annotate Chinese discoursewith 98 files from Chinese Treebank (Xue et al.,2005b) of Xinhua newswire.
In particular, theyadopt a lexically grounded approach and makesome adaptation based on the linguistic and sta-tistical characteristics of Chinese text, with Arg1and Arg2 defined semantically and the senses ofdiscourse relations annotated besides connec-tives and their lexical alternatives.
The agree-ment on relation types reaches 95.1% and theagreement on implicit relations with exact spanmatch reaches 76.9%.Instead, Chen (2006) and Yue (2008) use RSTto annotate Chinese discourse.
Chen (2006) se-lects comma as the segmentation signal of EDUs(in Example (2), ???
(According to reports)?will be segmented as an EDU), and finds thatRST fails to deal with some special features ofChinese.
Yue (2008) manually annotates a set of97 texts according to RST and shows the cross-lingual transferability of RST to Chinese.
How-ever, it also shows that EDUs in Chinese aremuch different from those in English, and manyrelation types in Chinese have no correspond-ence to English, and vice versa.3 Connective-driven Dependency TreeAn appropriate representation scheme is funda-mental to linguistic resource construction.
Withreference to various theories and representationscheme on the tree structure and nuclearity ofRST, the connective, relation and discoursestructure of Chinese complex sentence (Xing,2001), the sentence-group theory (Cao, 1984),the connective treatment of PDTB, the conjunc-tion dependent analysis (Feng and Ji, 2011) andthe center theory of dependency grammar (Hays,1964), we propose a new discourse representa-tion scheme for Chinese, called Connective-driven Dependency Tree (CDT), with EDUs asleaf nodes and connectives as non-leaf nodes, toaccommodate the special characteristics of theChinese language in discourse structure.For instance, Example (3) consists of 2 sen-tences, which is part of a paragraph from?chtb_0001?, and its corresponding CDT repre-sentation is shown in Figure 2.
Here, the numberof ?|?
in Example (3) stands for the level ofEDUs in CDT and the numbers marked in Fig-ure 2 (such as 1, 2 etc.)
distinguish EDUs.
Whilean arrow points to the main EDU or main dis-course unit (called nucleus), the combination ofdifferent EDUs can be considered as EDUs in ahigher level and the new discourse units can thusbe combined into higher-level units from bottomto up.
In this way, the discourse structure can beexpressed as a tree structure via bottom-up com-bination of EDUs.Obviously, such discourse structure is con-structed by two kinds of basic units, EDUs (leafnodes) and connectives (non-leaf nodes).
On theone hand, connectives can represent the dis-course structure by its hierarchical level in thetree.
The discourse structure is independent onthe connective level essentially, rather than thereverse.
On the other hand, connectives them-selves can represent the discourse relation.
Thisis why we call the scheme ?Connective-driven?.As for the abstract discourse relation, we canconstruct a set of discourse relations, mapping aconnective to discourse relation, according to theusers?
specific requirements.Example (3): CDT example from CTB1 ??
??
??
?
??
??
????
?Pudong development open up is a promote Shanghai, construct???
??????
??
??
?
??
?modern economy, trade, financial century De cross-century??
?|| 2 (??)
??
????
??
?
?project, therefore a large number arisen De previously never????
?
?
?????
?|  3 (??)?
??
{??
}encounter DE new situation, new problem.To this, Pudong not??
?
??
??
??
????
??
?simply DE adopting ?does a period time, wait accumulate Le??
?????
??
???
?
??
?|| 4{??
}experience after re-enactment laws regulations De approach,but??
??
??
?
??
?
??
?learn developed countries and Shenzhen etc.
special zone DE??
??
?|||| 5<??>??
???
???
?experience lesson, Invite at home and abroad revlant expert??
?|||| 6<??>??????
??
?
?
?2107scholars,               actively, timely DI formulate and issuing???
??
?||| 7 {?}
??
??
??
?
???
?statutory file, make these economic activity as soon as appear bei??
??
??
?bring into legality track.
?1 Pudong's development and opening up is a century-spanning undertaking for vigorously promoting Shanghai andconstructing a modern economic, trade, and financial center.
||2 Because of this, new situations and new questions that havenot been encountered before are emerging in great numbers.
| 3In response to this, Pudong is not simply adopting an approachof "work for a short time and then draw up laws and regula-tions only after experience has been accumulated.
?|| 4 Instead,Pudong is taking advantage of the lessons from experience ofdeveloped countries and special regions such as Shenzhen, ||||5by hiring appropriate domestic and foreign specialists andscholars, ||||6 actively and promptly formulating and issuingregulatory documents.
||| 7 So these economic activities areincorporated into the sphere of influence of the legal system assoon as they appear.
?1 2 3 4 5 6 7??(therefore?
{can be deleted}??
(for this){can be deleted}??
(and)<inserted, bad language sense>?
(cause){cann?t be deleted}??...??
(is not... but){cann?t be deleted}Figure 2: CDT representation of Example (3)3.1 Elementary Discourse UnitAs the leaf nodes of CDT, EDUs are limited toclauses.
In principle, EDUs play a crucial role todiscourse analysis.
Since from bottom-up dis-course combination, EDUs are the start of dis-course analysis, while from top-down discoursesegmentation, they are the end of discourseanalysis.
Unfortunately, since there lacks obvi-ous distinction between Chinese sentence struc-ture and phrase structure, it is rather difficult todefine Chinese EDU (clause).
Till now, there isstill no widely accepted definition in the Chineselinguistics community (Wang, 2010).
Inspiredby Li et al.
(2013a), we give the definition ofChinese EDU from three perspectives.
First,from the syntactic structure perspective, an EDUshould contain at least one predicate and expressat least one proposition.
Second, from the func-tional perspective, an EDU should be related toother EDUs with some propositional function,i.e.
not act as a grammatical element of otherEDUs.
Finally, from the morphological perspec-tive, an EDU should be segmented by somepunctuation, e.g.
comma, semicolon and period.We use punctuation because there usually has apause between clauses (EDUs), which can beshown in written commas, semicolons etc(Huang and Liao, 2011).
Normally, it is easy tohandle complex sentences and special sentencepatterns (e.g.
serial predicate sentences).
ForExample (4), A) is a single sentence with serialpredicate; B) is complex sentence with twoEDUs (clauses):Example (4): EDU examplesA) He opened the door and went out.
(single sentence,serial predicate, one EDU)B) 1 He opened the door,| 2 and went out.
(complex sen-tence, two EDUs)Take as example, there exist 7 EDUs in Ex-ample (3), each marked with a number in front.According to our definition, the fragment ????????????
?
(?work for a shorttime?has been accumulated? )
in EDU 3 is notsegmented as a EDU since: 1) it acts as a gram-matical element of other EDUs and has no directrelationship with other EDUs on propositionalfunction; 2) it is marked by a pair of quotationmarks and does not end with any punctuation.
Incontrast, the fragment ????????????
?
(?but learn developed?legality track.?)
issegment as 4 EDUs since it meets the three crite-ria in our EDU definition.3.2 ConnectiveAs non-leaf nodes in the CDT representation,connectives connect EDUs or discourse units.Thus, the main criterion of determining whetheran expression is a connective is to check wheth-er the two fragments it connects are EDUs (ordiscourse units).
In our scheme, the list of ex-plicit discourse connectives is judged by a datadriven approach, i.e.
with any discourse-likeword or phrase marked as connective in the an-notation practice, e.g.
???
(therefore)?, ???
(to this)?, ???...??...
(is not...but....)?, ??
(sothat), ????
(just because)?
in Example (3),??
...??
(first...then) ?, ????
(and at thesame time)?
in Example (5).Example (5): Connective examples from CTBA) 1<?????>??????
?| 2??????????????
?|| 3??????????????
(chtb_0001)1<If ; As long as>The construction company enters theregion, |2 first the appropriate bureau delivers these regu-latory documents,|| 3 Then there is a specialized contin-gent that carries out a supervisory inspection.B) 1????
?, 2??
?
???????????????
(chtb_0031)21081 The processing trade ?, | 2 and at the same timeis important content in the economic and trade coop-eration between Guangdong, Hong Kong, Macao andTaiwan.It is worthy of mention that from the part-of-speech perspective, connectives are notnecessarily conjunctions.
For example, inExample (3) and (5), adverbs ??...??
(first?then)?, verb phrases ??????
(is not?but)?,and preposition phrases ???
(to this)?
aredetermined as connectives.
From themorphological perspective, a connective maycontain more than one word, even discontinuous.As a common occurring phenomenon in Chinesediscourse, there exist many paired Chineseconnectives, e.g.
??????
(is not?but)?
inFigure 2.
Even in some paired connectives, suchas ??????
(because?so)?, a word in apaired connective can appear independently as aconnective.
Please note that this may not beapplied to other cases, e.g.
??????
(isnot?but)?
as appeared in Example (3).
Moreo-ver, in many cases whether an expression is aconnective or not depends on its meaning, e.g.,??
(in order to)?
is a connective, while ??(for)?
is not.
For the positional distribution, aconnective may appear anywhere, i.e.
in the be-ginning, middle, or the end of the first or secondEDU.
Example (3) and (5) show some of casesin different positions.
The above characteristicspose special challenges on connective determi-nation in Chinese language.According to the appearance of a connectiveor not, a discourse relation can be either explicitor implicit.
Previous studies have shown the dif-ficulty of implicit relation recognition in Englishdue to the omission of connectives (Pitler et al.,2009; Lin et al., 2009).
This becomes evenworse in Chinese since compared with the im-plicit ratio of 54.5% in English connectives, thisratio rises up to about 82% in Chinese (Zhou andXue, 2012).
It is worth noting that the majorityof discourse relations in Chinese are implicit, sothe insertion of a connective in an implicit posi-tion can significantly ease the understanding ofthe discourse.
That is, a connective driven repre-sentation scheme is still applicable to a discoursewith implicit connectives.
To help determineimplicit relations, two special strategies are pro-posed.First, for each explicit connective, a decisionis made whether or not it can be deleted withoutchanging the rhetorical relation of a discourse.
Itshould be emphasized that this constraint islargely semantic.
The motivation behind the re-moval of explicit connectives is to enlarge im-plicit instances and help recognize implicit rela-tions.
As shown in Figure 2, we use the pairedmark ?()?
to indicate that a connective can bedeleted, e.g.
connectives ?(??
to this)?, ?(?
?therefore)?, ?(???
just because)?, and thepaired mark ?{}?
to indicate that a connectivecannot be deleted, e.g.
connectives ?{?
sothat}?, ?{?????
is not?but}?.Second, since a connective can be inserted torepresent an implicit relation, our scheme tries toinsert a connective which can be easily inter-preted from the semantic perspective with littleambiguity into the most appropriate place.
Mostof the connective insertions for implicit relationsoccur between adjacent discourse spans.
It isworth noting that not all implicit connectives aresubjective to the language sense.
To mark thisdifference, we cluster implicit connectives intotwo categories according to their language sens-es, either ?good language intuition?
or ?bad lan-guage intuition?.
In our scheme, we use thepaired mark ?<>?to indicate inserted implicitconnectives, e.g.
connectives?<??
e.g.>?, ?<?
but>?
with ?good language sense?, connec-tive ?<??
and>?
with ?bad language sense?, asshown in Figure 2.In some cases, it is possible that there existseveral insertion options for an implicit connec-tive due to the ambiguity in a discourse.
For ex-ample, in Example (5A), connectives ???
(if)?and ???
(as long as)?
are inserted into the firstlevel to show the two discourse relation options.As far as this happens, connectives are insertedand ordered according to annotators?
first intui-tion.3.3 Discourse StructureIn Figure 2, the paragraph is organized as a treestructure, in which EDUs appear in the leafnodes and the connectives appear in the non-leafones.
The adoption of tree structure conforms totraditional Chinese discourse theories and prac-tice.
For example, a native Chinese speakertends to determine the overall level boundaryfirst and then the analysis goes on step by step tothe individual clauses, when understanding acomplex sentence.
This process naturally formsa tree structure.
Besides, tree structure is easierto formalize, compared with graph.More specifically, the hierarchical structure ofconnectives indicates the hierarchical structureof discourse units.
Apparently, discourse struc-2109ture analysis can be viewed as hierarchical anal-ysis of connectives, with hierarchical connectivestructure reflecting hierarchical combination ofdiscourse units.
Essentially, the discourse hierar-chy indicates the correlation degrees of semanticrelations in the discourse, the deeper tree level oftwo discourse units, the higher correlation de-gree of their semantic relation.
Therefore, a dis-course relation is the ultimate factor for thechoice of hierarchical discourse structure.
For areference, please take Sentence 2 in Figure 2 asan example.3.4 Discourse RelationFor discourse relation representation, a generalapproach is to assign an abstract relation type toa discourse relation directly, such as cause, con-junction, condition, purpose, etc, as done inRST-DT and PDTB.
In our CDT scheme, weavoid to directly assign an abstract relation typeto a discourse relation.
Instead, we use the con-nective itself to express the discourse relation, asshown in Figure 2.
In this way, the difficulty ofpre-defining a set of acknowledged discourserelations and selecting an exact discourse rela-tion can be avoided during the corpus annotationprocess.
Since a Chinese discourse relation islargely controlled by connective (Xing, 2001),the key to determine a relation is to identify asuitable connective.
Normally, most of relationannotations can easily map from connectives toabstract semantic classes of relations, if neces-sary, with the help of the discourse context.
Themajority of discourse relations in Chinese areimplicit, but it makes sense to insist on a con-nective driven representation.
With connectiveas a bridge, at least it makes discourse represen-tation easier.For the abstraction of discourse relations, weleave it in a later separate stage.
Of course, thereare cases where a connective may representmore than one discourse relation.
For example,connective ???
can denotes the continuous rela-tion ??
(especially)?
and the transitional rela-tion ??
(however)?.
Compared with annotatingdiscourse relation directly, annotator's intuitionis more accurate for specific connective.
Wedon't object to label discourse relation, referringto the general work and Chinese analysis prac-tice, give a set of relations (Figure 3), regardingit as connective's semantics, and then annotatethe connective with it.
In this way, we can obtaina general relation set and resolve the connec-tive's polysemy problem.
We believe that theconnective itself is the foundation of discourserelation, and the relation set can be adjusted dy-namically according to the application require-ments.Figure 3 shows a three-level set of discourserelations example.
In the first level, this set con-tains four relations of causality, coordination,transition and explanation, which are furtherclustered into 17 sub-relations in the second lev-el.
For example, relation causality contains 6sub-relations, i.e.
cause-result, inference, hypo-thetical, purpose, condition and background.
Inthe third level, the connectives are under eachsub-relation.
For example, cause-result relationcan be represented by ?because?, 'therefore' etc.The numbers shown in the parentheses illustratethe distributions of different relations in our cor-pus.
For example, there are 1335 causality rela-tions in the first level, including 686 cause-resultrelations, 38 inference relations, 70 hypotheticalrelations, 335 purpose relations, 72 conditionrelations and 134 background relations.causality(1335) coordination(4148)cause-result(686)because...inference(38)so that...hypothetical(70)if...purpose(335)in order to...condition(72)only?background(134)background...transition(217)transition (200)but...concessive(17)altough...coordination(3503)and...continue(517)first...second...progressive(59)in addition..selectional(10)or...inverse(59)compared with...explanation(1617)explanation(911)which including...summary-elaborationin a word...(234)example(252)e.g....evaluation (220)evaluation ...Figure 3: A three-level set of discourse relations3.5 Nucleus and SatelliteOnce discourse units are determined, adjacentspans are linked together via connectives tobuild a hierarchical structure.
As stated above,discourse relations may be either mononuclearor multi-nuclear.
A mononuclear relation holdsbetween a nucleus and a satellite unit.
Normally,the nucleus usually reflects the intention focus ofthe discourse and is thus more salient in the dis-course structure, while the satellite usually rep-resents supportive information for the nucleus.In comparison, a multi-nuclear relation usually2110holds two or more discourse units of equalweight in the discourse structure.For nucleus determination, we adopt the de-pendency grammar, and select the unit whichcan stand for the relationship with other dis-course units in a discourse.
As shown in Figure2, on the first level, discourse relation ???
(tothis)?
has the latter unit ????????
(Pudong?as soon as they appear.)?
as nucleus andthe former unit ???????
(Pudong ?newproblem)?
as satellite, since the latter unit agreeswith the main purpose of the discourse, whichemphasizes some methods for the progress ofPudong.
Moreover, since the combination of 4, 5and 6 has the cause relation with 7, we choose 7as nucleus because it can stand for the combina-tion of 4, 5, 6 and 7, and has the selection rela-tionship with 3.4 Chinese Discourse TreebankGiven above the CDT scheme, we choose 500Xinhua newswire documents from the ChineseTreebank (Xue et al., 2005b) in our ChineseDiscourse Treebank (CDTB) annotation.
In par-ticular, we annotate one discourse tree for eachparagraph.In this section, we address the key issues withthe CDTB annotation, such as annotator training,tagging strategies, corpus quality, along with thestatistics of the CDTB corpus.4.1 Annotator TrainingThe annotator team consists of a Ph.D. in Chi-nese linguistics as the supervisor (senior annota-tor) and four undergraduate students in Chineselinguistics as annotators (two pairs).
The annota-tion is done in four phases.
In the first phase, theannotators spend 3 months on learning the prin-ciples of CDT and the use of our developed dis-course annotation tool.
In the second phase, theannotators spend 2 months on independentlyannotating the same 50 documents (about 260paraphrases), and another 2 months on cross-checking to resolve the difference and to revisethe guidelines.
In the third phase, the annotatorsspend 9 months on annotating the remaining 450documents.
In the final phase, the supervisorspends 3 months carefully proofread all 500documents.4.2 Tagging StrategiesIn the CDTB annotation, we employ a top-downstrategy.
That is, we determine the overall levelfirst and then the analysis goes on step by step tothe individual EDUs.
This strategy is adopted inour annotation tool.
The advantages of the top-down strategy are three folds.
First, such a strat-egy can easily grasp the whole discourse struc-ture.
This conforms to the global nature of dis-course analysis.
Second, due to the lack of cleardifference between Chinese sentence and phrasestructure, such a strategy can largely avoid theerror propagation in Chinese EDU segmentation.Since in such a top-down strategy, EDU seg-mentation becomes an end question, and even ifan EDU segmentation error happens, its impactis localized, i.e.
with little impact on the wholediscourse structure.
Our annotation practiceshows that such strategy is effective.
Third, sucha strategy accords with the cognitive of Chinesecharacteristics, and conforms to the mental pro-cess of Chinese discourse understanding (Huangand Liao, 2011).
However, we do not excludethe bottom-up strategy.
In some cases, on thecognitive psychological process, annotator iscombine top-down and bottom-up strategies.Take Example (3) as an example, an annotatorfirst finds the first level, with the period at theend of sentence 1, and chooses discourse rela-tion (either explicit or implicit), connective, andconnective related information (e.g.
whether canbe added, deleted, and the language sense, etc.
),nuclearity etc.
Then, the annotator turns to sen-tence 1 and marks the second comma as level 2with necessary information annotated, and goeson to sentence 2, recursively, until all EDUs aremarked.
In this way, a discourse tree with theCDT representation is constructed.4.3 Quality AssuranceA number of steps are taken to ensure the qualityof CDTB.
These involve two tasks: checking thevalidity of the trees and tracking inter-annotatorconsistency.4.3.1 Tree validationWe first manually check if a tree has a singleroot node and compare the tree with the docu-ment to check for missing sentence or fragmentsfrom the end of text.
Then we check the attachedinformation such as connectives, relations andnuclearity in the tree.
We also check the treewith a tree traversal program to find the errorsundetected by the manual validation process.Finally, all of the trees work successfully.4.3.2 ConsistencyTo ensure the quality of CDTB, we adopt theinter-annotator consistency using Agreementand kappa on 60 documents (chtb0041-chtb21110100).
Table 1 illustrates the inter-annotatorconsistency in details.As shown in Table 1, we measure the agree-ment of EDU segmentation by determiningwhether punctuation (all period, comma etc.
areconsidered) is treated as an EDU boundary.
Itshows that the agreement reaches 91.7% withCohen's kappa value (Cohen, 1960) 0.91.
Thisjustifies the appropriateness of our EDU defini-tion.
Explicit or Implicit agreement 94.7% iscalculate by the same EDU boundary (intersec-tion) of two annotators.
For the same explicitrelation, the connective identification agreementis 82.3%, because this is strict measure whentwo annotators choose the same connective word.If we relax the measure to contain the sameword, the agreement can reach 98%.
For exam-ple, one annotate ????
(also?and)?, and theother annotate ??(and)?
is wrong with our strictmeasure.Agreement  KappaEDU segmentationExplicit or ImplicitExplicit connective identifi-cationImplicit connective insertionMononuclear or MultinuclearNuclearityStructure91.7      0.9194.7      0.8182.3        --74.6        --80.8        --82.4        --77.4        --Table 1: Inter-annotator consistencyIt is not surprising that the agreement on im-plicit connective insertion with the same posi-tion and the same connective only reaches74.6% since for some discourse relations, theremay existing several connective alternatives.
Forexample, both ?so?
and ?therefore?
can expressthe same causation relation.
If we relax the con-straint to the compatible connective, the agree-ment on implicit connective insertion can reachup to 84.5%.Finally, it shows that the agreement on overalldiscourse structure (with the same connectivesas non-leaf nodes, the same EDUs as leaf nodes)reaches 77.4%.
This justifies the appropriatenessof our CDT scheme, given the inherent ambigui-ty in Chinese discourse structure.4.4 Corpus StatisticsCurrently, the CDTB corpus consists of 500newswire articles from Chinese Treebank, whichare further divided into 2342 paragraphs with aCDT representation for one paragraph.?
For EDUs, CDTB contains 10650 EDUs withan average of 4.5 EDUs per tree.
On average,there are 2 EDUs per sentence and 22 Chi-nese characters per EDU.?
For discourse relations, CDTB contains 7310relations, of which 1812 are explicit relations(24.8%) and 5498 are implicit relations(75.2%).
This indicates that implicit relationsoccur much more frequently in Chinese thanin English, e.g.
75.2% in CDTB (Chinese) vs.~50% in PDTB (English).?
With the deepest level of 9, most (98.5%) ofdiscourse relations occur in level 1 (2342),level 2(2372), level 3(1532), level 4(712),and level 5(242).
It also shows that 3557(48.7%) relations are mononuclear relationswith 2110 nucleus ahead, while the remain-ing 3754 relations are multi-nuclear.
Thenumbers shown in the parentheses of Figure3 illustrate the distributions of different rela-tions.
In comparison with the top 2 most fre-quently occurring relations in PDTB (Eng-lish), i.e.
the coordination and explanation re-lations, there exist 3503 (47.9%) and 911 in-stances respectively, with regard to the ab-stract relation set as shown in Figure 3.?
CDTB contains 282 connectives, amongwhich 274 (140 can be deleted) appears asexplicit connectives and 44 can be inserted inplace of implicit connectives.
Table 2 liststhe top 10 frequent explicit connectives andimplicit connectives.Explicit connectives Implicit connectivesconnectives   frequency connectives   frequency?
(and)                     208??
(among them)   154?
(also)                     131?
(however)              70?
(but)                       69?
(also)                      68?
(so that)                  56?
(in order to)            52?
(in order to)            49??
(meanwhile)       46??
(so)                    368?
(and)                      354??
(and)                  259??
(e.g)                   140?
(in order to)             68?
(in order to)             61??
(then)                   55??
(among them)      48?
(while)                     47??
(because)             32Table 2: The most frequent connectives in CDTB5 Comparison with other DiscourseBanksTable 3 compares the difference of CDTB withRST-DT and PDTB from various perspectives,such as EDU, connective, relation, structure andnuclearity.2112RST-DB PDTB CDTBEDUClear defined; start ofcombination; one relationhas two or more EDUsPredicate-argumentview; one relationhas two argumentsClear defined from three aspects; end oftop-down segmentation; one relation hastwo or more EDUsConnective --Mark explicit con-nectives and insertimplicit connectivesMark whether an connective can be deletedwithout changing the rhetorical relation;insert implicit connective with good intui-tion and bad intuition differentiatedRelationAbstract set of relationtypes; annotate the rela-tion typesAbstract set of rela-tion types; annotateconnective and rela-tion typeRepresent relation by connective; annotateconnective and it?s attribute; mapping ofconnective to the set of discourse relationsin a later stageStructure Complete treePartial tree, deducedby connective andit?s argumentComplete tree; top-down segmentation;structure can be represented by the connec-tive hierarchyNuclearityDetermined by certainrhetorical relation--Determined by the global meaning of adiscourseTable 3: The comparison of RST-DT, PDTB and CDTB6 Preliminary ExperimentationIn order to evaluate the computability of CDTB,we give the experimental results on EDU recog-nition, which is crucial in discourse parsing.
Af-ter excluding sentence end punctuations (such asperiod, question mark, and exclamatory mark),which are certainly EDU boundaries, there re-mains 7625 punctuations as EDU boundaries(positive instances) and 4876 punctuations asnon-EDU boundaries (negative instances).
Withvarious features as adopted in Xue and Yang(2011) and Li et al.
(2013b), Table 4 shows theperformance of EDU recognition on the CDTBcorpus with 10-fold cross validation.Gold standard parse      Automatic parseAccuracy  F1(+)  F1(-)  Accuracy  F1(+)  F1(-)MaxEnt 90.6     91.1   90.5 89.0    90.3    87.2C45 90.2    90.5    90.1 88.7    90.0    87.7NiveBayes 90.2    89.9   88.9 88.0    89.0    86.9Table 4: Performance of EDUs recognitionAs shown in Table 4, MaxEnt performs best,with accuracy up to 90.6% on gold standardparse tree, close to human agreement of 91.7%,and with accuracy up to 89% on automatic parsetree.
This suggests the appropriateness of ourdefinition of clause as EDU.
Table 4 also givesthe performance on both positive and negativeinstances.
It shows better F1-measure on recog-nizing positive instances than negative instances.7 ConclusionsIn this paper, we propose a Connective-drivenDependency Tree (CDT) structure as a represen-tation scheme for Chinese discourse structure.CDT takes advantage of both RST and PDTB,and well adapts to the special characteristics ofChinese discourse.
In particular, we describeCDT in detail from various perspectives, such asEDU, connective, structure, relation and nucle-arity.
Given the CDT scheme, we annotate 500documents in a top-down segmentation processto keep consistent with Chinese native?s cogni-tive habit.
Evaluation of the CDTB corpus onEDU recognition justifies the appropriateness ofthe CDT scheme to Chinese discourse structureand the usefulness of our CDTB corpus.In the future work, we will focus on enlargingthe scale of the corpus annotation and develop-ing a complete Chinese discourse parser.AcknowledgmentsThis research is supported by the Project2012AA011102 under the National 863 High-Tech Program of China, by the National NaturalScience Foundation of China, No.61331011,No.61273320.Classifier2113The contact author of this paper, according tothe meaning given to this role by Soochow Uni-versity, is Guodong Zhou.
The complete corpusis available for research purpose upon request.ReferenceZheng Cao.1984.
Primary exploration on sentencegroup.
Zhejiang Education Press, Hangzhou,CN(inChinese).Lynn Carlson, Daniel Marcu, and Mary Ellen Oku-rowski.
2003.
Building a Discourse-tagged Corpusin the Framework of Rhetorical Structure Theory.Springer Netherlands.LiPing Chen.
2006.
English and Chinese discoursestructure dimension theory and practice.
Ph.D.thesis, Shanghai international studies universitydoctoral dissertation.Liping Chen.
2008.
Chinese text structure annotationtheory support?Journal of Nanjing university ofaeronautics and astronautics, 10(3):69-71(in Chi-nese).Jacob Cohen.
1960.
A coefficient of agreement fornominal scales.
Educational and PsychologicalMeasurement, 20 (1): 37?46.Wenhe Feng and Donghong Ji.
2011.
Parallel struc-ture analysis of the coordination structure and thecontroller status of connective.
Linguistic Sciences,2:168-181(in Chinese).David G Hays.
1964.
Dependency theory: formalismand some observations.
Language, 40(4):511-525.Hen-Hsen Huang and Hsin-Hsi Chen.
2011.
ChineseDiscourse Relation Recognition.
In Proceedings of5th International Joint Conference on NaturalLanguage Process, pages 1442?1446, Chiang Mai,Thailand, November 2011.Borong Huang and Xudong Liao.
2011.
Morden Chi-nese (volume two, updated 5th edition).
HigherEducation Press.
Beijing,CN(in Chinese).Yancui Li, Wenhe Feng, and Guodong Zhou.
2013a.Elementary discourse unit in Chinese discoursestructure analysis.
In Chinese Lexical Semantics,pages 186-198, Wuhan, China, Springer BerlinHeidelberg.Yancui Li, Wenhe Feng, and Guodong Zhou et al.2013b.
Research of Chinese Clause IdentificationBased on Comma.
Acta Scientiarum NaturaliumUniversitatis Pekinensis, 49(1):7-14 (in Chinesewith English abstract).Ziheng Lin, Min-Yan Kan, and Hwee Tou Ng.
2009.Recognizing implicit discourse relations in thePenn Discourse Treebank.
In Proceedings of the2009 Conference on Empirical Methods in NaturalLanguage Processing, pages 343?351, Singapore,6-7 August 2009.Daniel Marcu.
2000.
The theory and practice of dis-course parsing and summarization.
MIT Press.William Mann and Sandra Thompson.
1988.
Rhetori-cal structure theory: Toward a functional theory oftext organization.
Text, 8(3):243-281.Emily Pitler, Annie Louis, and Ani Nenkova.
Auto-matic sense prediction for implicit discourse rela-tions in text.
2009.
In Proceedings of the 47th An-nual Meeting of the ACL and the 4th IJCNLP ofthe AFNLP, pages 683?691, Suntec, Singapore, 2-7 August 2009.Rashmi Prasad, Nikhil Dinesh, and Lee et al.
2008.The Penn Discourse TreeBank 2.0.
In Pro-cessdings of Sixth International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation (LREC),pages 2961-2968, Marrakech, Morocco.Susan Verberne, Lou Boves, Nelleke Oostdijk, andPeter-Arno Coppen.
2007.
Discourse-based an-swering of why-questions.
Traitement Automa-tique des Langues, special issue on ComputationalApproaches to Discourse and Document Pro-cessing, 47(2):21-41.Wenge Wang.
2010.
The Current Research Situationof the Clause in Modern Chinese.
Chinese Lan-guage Learning, (1): 67?76(in Chinese).Fuyi Xing.
2003.
Research of Chinese complex sen-tence.
The Commercial Press, Beijing, CN (inChinese).Nianwen Xue.
2005a.
Annotating the Discourse Con-nectives in the Chinese Treebank.
In Proceedingsof the ACL Workshop on Frontiers in Corpus An-notation, pages 84-91, Ann Arbor, Michigan.Nianwen Xue, Fei Xia, Fu-Dong Chiou, and MarthaPalmer.
2005b.
The Penn Chinese Treebank:Phrase Structure Annotation of a Large Corpus.Natural Language Engineering, 11(2): 207-238.Nianwen Xue and Yaqin Yang.
2011.
Chinese sen-tence segmentation as comma classification.
InProceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics:HumanLanguage Technologies, pages 631-635, Portland,Oregon,USA, June 2011.Ming Yue.
2008.
Rhetorical Structure Annotation ofChinese News Commentaries.
Journal of ChineseInformation Processing, 22(4): 19-23(in Chinesewith English abstract).Yuping Zhou and Nianwen Xue.
2012.
PDTB-stylediscourse annotation of Chinese text.
In Proceed-ings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pages 69-77, Jeju,Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012.2114
