Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 196?201,October 25-29, 2014, Doha, Qatar.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsBetter Statistical Machine Translation through Linguistic Treatment ofPhrasal VerbsKostadin Cholakov and Valia KordoniHumboldt-Universit?at zu Berlin, Germany{kostadin.cholakov,kordonieva}@anglistik.hu-berlin.deAbstractThis article describes a linguistically in-formed method for integrating phrasalverbs into statistical machine translation(SMT) systems.
In a case study involvingEnglish to Bulgarian SMT, we show thatour method does not only improve trans-lation quality but also outperforms simi-lar methods previously applied to the sametask.
We attribute this to the fact that, incontrast to previous work on the subject,we employ detailed linguistic information.We found out that features which describephrasal verbs as idiomatic or composi-tional contribute most to the better trans-lation quality achieved by our method.1 IntroductionPhrasal verbs are a type of multiword expressions(MWEs) and as such, their meaning is not deriv-able, or is only partially derivable, from the se-mantics of their lexemes.
This, together with thehigh frequency of MWEs in every day communi-cation (see Jackendoff (1997)), calls for a specialtreatment of such expressions in natural languageprocessing (NLP) applications.
Here, we con-centrate on statistical machine translation (SMT)where the word-to-word translation of MWEs of-ten results in wrong translations (Piao et al., 2005).Previous work has shown that the applicationof dedicated methods to identify MWEs and thenintegrate them in some way into the SMT pro-cess often improves translation quality.
Gener-ally, automatically extracted lexicons of MWEsare employed in the identification step.
Further,various integration strategies have been proposed.The so called static strategy suggests training theSMT system on corpora in which each MWE istreated as a single unit, e.g.
call off.
This im-proves SMT indirectly by improving the align-ment between source and target sentences in thetraining data.
Various versions of this strategy areapplied in Lambert and Banchs (2005), Carpuatand Diab (2010), and Simova and Kordoni (2013).In all cases there is some improvement in transla-tion quality, caused mainly by the better treatmentof separable PVs, such as in turn the light on.Another strategy, which is referred to as dy-namic, is to modify directly the SMT system.
Renet al.
(2009), for example, treat bilingual MWEspairs as parallel sentences which are then addedto training data and subsequently aligned withGIZA++ (Och and Ney, 2003).
Other approachesperform feature mining and modify directly theautomatically extracted translation table.
Ren etal.
(2009) and Simova and Kordoni (2013) employMoses1to build and train phrase-based SMT sys-tems and then, in addition to the standard phrasaltranslational probabilities, they add a binary fea-ture which indicates whether an MWE is presentin a given source phrase or not.
Carpuat andDiab (2010) employ the same approach but theadditional feature indicates the number of MWEsin each phrase.
All studies report improvementsover a baseline system with no MWE knowledgebut these improvements are comparable to thoseachieved by static methods.In this article, we further improve the dynamicstrategy by adding features which, unlike all previ-ous work, also encode some of the linguistic prop-erties of MWEs.
Since it is their peculiar linguisticnature that makes those expressions problematicfor SMT, it is our thesis that providing more lin-guistic information to the translation process willimprove it.
In particular, we concentrate on a spe-cific type of MWEs, namely phrasal verbs (PVs).We add 4 binary features to the translation tablewhich indicate not only the presence of a PV butalso its transitivity, separability, and idiomaticity.We found that PVs are very suitable for this studysince we can easily extract the necessary informa-1http://www.statmt.org/moses/196tion from various language resources.To prove our claim, we perform a case studywith an English to Bulgarian SMT system.
Bul-garian lacks PVs in the same form they appear inEnglish.
It is often the case that an English PV istranslated to a single Bulgarian verb.
Such many-to-one mappings cause the so called translationasymmetries which make the translation of PVsvery problematic.We perform automated and manual evaluationswith a number of feature combinations whichshow that the addition of all 4 features proposedabove improves translation quality significantly.Moreover, our method outperforms static and dy-namic methods previously applied to the same testdata.
A notable increase in performance is ob-served for separable PVs where the verb and theparticle(s) were not adjacent in the input Englishsentence as well as for idiomatic PVs.
This clearlydemonstrates the importance of linguistic informa-tion for the proper treatment of PVs in SMT.We would like to point out that we viewthe work presented here as a preliminary studytowards a more general linguistically informedmethod for handling similar types of translationasymmetries.
The experiments with a single phe-nomenon, namely PVs, serve as a case study thepurpose of which is to demonstrate the validity ofour approach and the crucial role of properly inte-grated linguistic information into SMT.
Our work,however, can be immediately extended to otherphenomena, such as collocations and noun com-pounds.The remainder of the paper is organised as fol-lows.
Section 2 describes the asymmetries causedby PVs in English to Bulgarian translation.
Sec-tion 3 provides details about the resources in-volved in the experiments.
Section 4 describesour method and the experimental setup.
Sec-tion 5 presents the results and discusses the im-provements in translation quality achieved by themethod.
Sections 6 concludes the paper.2 Translation AsymmetriesWe will first illustrate the main issues which arisewhen translating English PVs into Bulgarian.
Formore convenience, the Bulgarian phrases are tran-scribed with Latin letters.An English PV is usually mapped to a singleBulgarian verb:(1) Tojheotmenicancelledsreshtata.meeting-the?He called off the meeting.
?In the example above the PV called off has tobe mapped to the single Bulgarian verb otmeni,i.e.
there is many-to-one mapping.
Other casesrequire a many-to-many type of mapping.
Onesuch case is the mapping of an English PV toa ?da?-construction in Bulgarian.
Such construc-tions are very frequent in Bulgarian every daycommunication since they denote complex verbtenses, modal verb constructions, and subordinat-ing conjunctions:(2) Tojhetrjabvashouldda skasabreak offswithneja.her?He should break off with her.
?Here, da skasa should be mapped to the PV breakoff.
Other such cases include Bulgarian reflexiveverb constructions.Note that such many-to-many mappings in thecase of Bulgarian pose an additional challenge forthe SMT system because, for a good translation, itneeds to guess whether to add a ?da?
particle or notwhich further complicates the treatment of PVs.Also, Bulgarian is a language with rich morphol-ogy and often translations with very good seman-tic quality lack the proper morphological inflec-tion.
This affects negatively both automated andmanual evaluation of translation quality.3 Language ResourcesWe employ the data used in the studies reported inSimova and Kordoni (2013).
The authors experi-mented with both static and dynamic methods forhandling PVs in an English to Bulgarian SMT sys-tem.
This allows us to compare the performanceof our linguistically informed approach to that ofmethods which do not make use of the linguisticproperties of PVs.The data for the experiments are derived fromthe SeTimes news corpus2which contains par-allel news articles in English and 9 Balkan lan-guages.
The training data consist of approximately151,000 sentences.
Another 2,000 sentences areused for the tuning.
The test set consists of 800sentences, 400 of which contain one or more in-2http://www.setimes.com197stances of PVs.
There are 138 unique PVs with atotal of 403 instances in the test data.
Further, alanguage model for the target language is createdbased on a 50 million words subset of the Bul-garian National Reference Corpus.3All Englishdata are POS tagged and lemmatised using theTreeTagger (Schmid, 1994).
For Bulgarian, thesetasks were performed with the BTB-LPP tagger(Savkov et al., 2011).Simova and Kordoni (2013) create automati-cally a lexicon containing English PVs.
It is em-ployed for the identification of such verbs in thedata used in the experiments.
The lexicon is con-structed from a number of resources: the En-glish Phrasal Verbs section of Wiktionary,4thePhrasal Verb Demon dictionary,5the CELEX Lex-ical Database (Baayen et al., 1995), WordNet(Fellbaum, 1998), the COMLEX Syntax dictio-nary (Macleod et al., 1998), and the gold standarddata used for the experiments in McCarthy et al.
(2003) and Baldwin (2008).
English PVs are iden-tified in the data using the jMWE library (Kulkarniand Finlayson, 2011) as well as a post-processingmodule implemented in the form of a constrainedgrammar (Karlsson et al., 1995) which filters outspurious PV candidates.
For the identification ofPVs, Simova and Kordoni (2013) report 91% pre-cision (375 correct instances found) and a recallscore of 93% for the 800 test sentences.The Moses toolkit is employed to build a fac-tored phrase-based translation model which op-erates on lemmas and POS tags.
Given the richBulgarian morphology, the use of lemma informa-tion instead of surface word forms allows for abetter mapping between source and target transla-tion equivalents.
The parallel data are aligned withGIZA++.
Further, 2 5-gram language models arebuilt using the SRILM toolkit6on the monolingualBulgarian data to model lemma and POS n-graminformation.
Note that the Bulgarian POS tags arequite complex, so they can account for a varietyof morphological phenomena.
Automated trans-lation is performed by mapping English lemmasand POS tags to their Bulgarian equivalents andthen generating the proper Bulgarian word formby using lemma and POS tag information.3http://webclark.org/4http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/Category:English\_phrasal\_verbs5http://www.phrasalverbdemon.com/6http://www-speech.sri.com/projects/srilm/1 0feature 1 PV present no PVfeature 2 transitive intransitivefeature 3 separable inseparablefeature 4 idiomatic (semi-)comp.Table 1: Values for the 4 new features.4 Addition of Linguistic FeaturesThe resources from which the PV lexicon is con-structed also contain various types of linguistic in-formation.
Wiktionary provides the most detailssince the entries there contain information aboutthe valency of the verb (transitive vs intransitive)and whether a particle can be separated from thePV in particle verb constructions.
Consider fell offhis bike and *fell his bike off vs turn the engine onand turn on the engine.Further, Wiktionary indicates whether a givenPV is compositional or idiomatic in nature.
Themeaning of (semi-)compositional PVs can be (par-tially) derived from the meaning of their lexemes,e.g.
carry in.
The degree of compositionality af-fects the productivity with which verbs and parti-cles combine.
Verbs with similar semantics oftencombine with the same particle, e.g.
bring/carryin.
This is not the case for fully idiomatic PVs, e.g.get/*obtain over.
Therefore, the notion of compo-sitionality plays a very important role in the treat-ment of PVs and MWEs in general.
The datasetdescribed in McCarthy et al.
(2003) also indicateswhether a PV is idiomatic or not.We were able to acquire the PV lexicon andwe augmented it with the information obtainedfrom the various resources.
Then, once the sys-tem is trained, we add 4 binary features to eachentry in the automatically created translation table.The values those features take are shown in Table1.
If a given property is not specified for somePV in the lexicon, the value of the correspondingfeature is 0.
Naturally, if no PV is identified ina source phrase, the value of all 4 features is 0.This is different from previous work where onlyone feature is added, indicating the presence of aPV.
By adding those new features, we want to biasthe SMT system towards using phrases that do not?split?
PVs during decoding.198with PVs no PVs allbleu nist bleu nist bleu nistbaseline 0.244 5.97 0.228 5.73 0.237 6.14static 0.246 6.02 0.230 5.76 0.239 6.18dynamic-1 0.250 5.92 0.226 5.54 0.244 6.02dynamic-4 0.267 6.01 0.232 5.74 0.256 6.16Table 2: Automatic evaluation of translation qual-ity.5 Results and DiscussionAutomatic Evaluation.
Table 2 presents the re-sults from the automatic evaluation, in terms ofBLEU (Papineni et al., 2002) and NIST (Dodding-ton, 2002) scores, of 4 system setups.
The base-line has no MWE knowledge, while the static andthe dynamic-1 system setups are reproduced fromthe experiments described in Simova and Kordoni(2013).
Dynamic-1 includes only a single binaryfeature which indicates the presence of a PV whileour method, dynamic-4, includes the 4 features de-scribed in Table 1.Our method outperforms all other setups interms of BLEU score, thus proving our point thatadding features describing the linguistic propertiesof PVs improves SMT even further.
Also, the re-sults for the 400 sentences without PVs show thatthe 4 new features do not have a negative impactfor PV-free contexts.In terms of NIST the static strategy consistentlyperforms best, followed closely by our method.NIST is a measure which weights the translatedn-grams according to their informativeness.
Dueto the nature of this measure, less frequent cor-rectly translated n-grams are given more weightin the evaluation process because NIST considersthem ?more informative?.
Such less frequent n-grams, or in our case PVs, are likely to be cap-tured better by the static setup.
Therefore, thissetup achieves the highest NIST scores.
This factalso suggests that dynamic and static strategies in-fluence the SMT process in different ways, withour method tending to capture more frequent (andthus less informative) n-grams.
Interestingly, theother dynamic method, dynamic-1, has the worstperformance of all setups in terms of NIST.Manual evaluation.
To get a better insight onhow the different setups deal with the translationof PVs, we also performed a manual evaluation.A native speaker of Bulgarian was asked to judgethe translations of PVs for the 375 test sentences ingood acceptable incorrectbaseline 0.21 0.41 0.38static 0.25 0.5 0.25dynamic-1 0.24 0.51 0.25dynamic-4 0.3 0.5 0.2Table 3: Manual evaluation of translation quality.which such verbs were correctly identified duringthe identification step.
The human subject takesinto account the target PV and a limited contextaround it and judges the translation as:?
good - correct translation of the PV, correctverb inflection?
acceptable - correct translation of the PV butwrong inflection, or wrongly built da- or re-flexive construction?
incorrect - wrong translation which changesthe meaning of the sentenceTable 3 shows the results.
Our method dynamic-4 produces more good translations and less incor-rect ones than all other setups.
This illustrates fur-ther the benefits of adding linguistic features tothe translation model.
The results achieved by thestatic approach are attributed to the better handlingof separable PVs in sentences where the particlewas not adjacent to the verb.
The dynamic-1 ap-proach and the baseline often interpret the particleliterally in such cases which leads to almost twicethe amount of wrong translations.
Our method, onthe other hand, performs slightly lower than thestatic approach in this respect but still much betterthan the other 2 setups.Compared to dynamic-1 and the baseline, thestatic approach also handles better idiomatic PVsbut performs slightly worse for sentences withcompositional PVs.
However, the addition of aspecific feature to encode idiomaticity in the trans-lation model enables our method dynamic-4 toachieve the best performance for idiomatic PVswhile still handling successfully many composi-tional PVs.
To summarise, the improved resultsof our method in comparison to previous work areattributed to the better handling of separable PVswhich occur in a split form and even more to theimproved ability to differentiate between compo-sitional and idiomatic PVs.Feature combinations.
Our method performsbest when all 3 linguistic features described above199are taken into account by the SMT system.
How-ever, we also experimented with different combi-nations of those features in order to get some in-sight of the way each feature influences the trans-lation quality.
Adding only the feature denot-ing verb transitiveness did not lead to any sig-nificant improvement compared to the dynamic-1 setup.
Also, the combination which leaves outthis feature and uses the remaining ones rankssecond, achieving only a slightly worse perfor-mance than dynamic-4, the setup in which all fea-tures are employed.
It seems that the transitive-ness feature does not contribute much to the taskat hand.
Adding only the feature denoting sepa-rable vs inseparable PVs and adding only the onedenoting idiomaticity led to results slightly higherthan those of the dynamic-1 and static setups butstill, those results were significantly lower than theones presented in Tables 2 and 3.6 Conclusion and OutlookIn this article, we showed that the addition of lin-guistically informative features to a phrase-basedSMT model improves the translation quality of aparticular type of MWEs, namely phrasal verbs.In a case study involving SMT from English toBulgarian, we showed that adding features whichencode not only the presence of a PV in a givenphrase but also its transitiveness, separability, andidiomaticity led to better translation quality com-pared to previous work which employs both staticand dynamic strategies.In future research, we will extend our methodto other language pairs which exhibit the sametype of translation asymmetries when it comes toPVs.
Such language pairs include, among others,English-Spanish and English-Portuguese.Further, we will apply our linguistically in-formed method to other phenomena which causesimilar issues for SMT.
Immediate candidate phe-nomena include other types of MWEs, colloca-tions, and noun compounds.
When it comes toMWEs, we will pay special attention to the com-positionality aspect since it seems to have con-tributed most to the good performance achieve byour method in the study presented here.ReferencesR H Baayen, R Piepenbrock, and L. Gulikers.
1995.The CELEX lexical database (CD-ROM).Timothy Baldwin.
2008.
A resource for evaluating thedeep lexical acquisition of english verb-particle con-structions.
In Proceedings of the LREC 2008 Work-shop: Towards a Shared Task for Multiword Expres-sions, pages 1?2, Marakesh, Morocco.Marine Carpuat and Mona Diab.
2010.
Task-basedevaluation of multiword expressions: a pilot studyin statistical machine translation.
In Human Lan-guage Technologies: The 2010 Annual Conferenceof the North American Chapter of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics., HLT ?10., pages242?245, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association forComputational Linguistics.George Doddington.
2002.
Automatic evaluationof machine translation quality using n-gram co-occurrence statistics.
In Proceedings of the secondinternational conference on Human Language Tech-nology Research, pages 138?145, San Francisco,CA, USA.Christiane Fellbaum.
1998.
WordNet: An electroniclexical database.
The MIT press.Ray Jackendoff.
1997.
The Architecture of the Lan-guage Faculty.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Fred Karlsson, Atro Voutilainen, Juha Heikkila, andArto Anttila.
1995.
Constraint grammar: Alanguage-independent system for parsing unre-stricted text.
Natural Language Processing, 4.Nidhi Kulkarni and Mark Alan Finlayson.
2011.JMWE ?
a Java toolkit for detecting multiword ex-pressions.
In Proceedings of the 2011 Workshop onMultiword Expressions, pages 122?124.Patrik Lambert and Rafael Banchs.
2005.
Data in-ferred multi-word expressions for statistical machinetranslation.
In Proceedings of the X Machine Trans-lation Summit, pages 396?403.Catherine Macleod, Adam Meyers, and Ralph Grish-man, 1998.
COMLEX Syntax Reference Manual.New York University.Diana McCarthy, B Keller, and John Carroll.
2003.Detecting a continuum of compositionality inphrasal verbs.
In Proceedings of the ACL 2003Workshop on Multiword Expressions: analysis, ac-quisition and treatment, Sapporo, Japan.Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney.
2003.
A sys-tematic comparison of various statistical alignmentmodels.
Computational Linguistics, 29(1):19?51.Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu.
2002.
BLEU: A method for automaticevaluation of machine translation.
In Proceedingsof the 40th Annual Meeting on Association for Com-putational Linguistics, pages 311?318, Stroudsburg,PA, USA.200Scott Songlin Piao, Paul Rayson, and andTony McEnery Dawn Archer.
2005.
Com-paring and combining a semantic tagger and astatistical tool for MWE extraction.
ComuterSpeech and Language, 19(4):378?397.Zhixiang Ren, Yajuan Lu, Jie Cao, Qun Liu, andYun Huang.
2009.
Improving statistical machinetranslation using domain bilingual multiword ex-pressions.
In Proceedings of the ACL Workshop onMultiword Expressions: Identification, Interpreta-tion, Disambiguation and Applications, pages 47?54, Singapore.Aleksandar Savkov, Laska Laskova, Petya Osenova,Kiril Simov, and Stanislava Kancheva.
2011.
Aweb-based morphological tagger for Bulgarian.
InProceedings of the Sixth International Conferenceon Natural Language Processing, Multilinguality,pages 126?137, Bratislava, Slovakia.Helmut Schmid.
1994.
Probabilistic part-of-speechtagging using decision trees.
In Proceedings of theInternational Conference on New Methods in Lan-guage Processing, Manchester, UK.Iliana Simova and Valia Kordoni.
2013.
Improv-ing English-Bulgarian statistical machine translationby phrasal verb treatment.
In Proceedings of MTSummit XIV Workshop on Multi-word Units in Ma-chine Translation and Translation Technology, Nice,France.201
