Proceedings of the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 846?855,Austin, Texas, November 1-5, 2016. c?2016 Association for Computational LinguisticsSolving and Generating Chinese Character RiddlesChuanqi Tan?
?
Furu Wei?
Li Dong+ Weifeng Lv?
Ming Zhou?
?State Key Laboratory of Software Development Environment, Beihang University, China?Microsoft Research Asia +University of Edinburgh?tanchuanqi@nlsde.buaa.edu.cn +li.dong@ed.ac.uk?
{fuwei, mingzhou}@microsoft.com ?lwf@buaa.edu.cnAbstractChinese character riddle is a riddle game inwhich the riddle solution is a single Chi-nese character.
It is closely connected withthe shape, pronunciation or meaning of Chi-nese characters.
The riddle description (sen-tence) is usually composed of phrases withrich linguistic phenomena (such as pun, sim-ile, and metaphor), which are associated todifferent parts (namely radicals) of the so-lution character.
In this paper, we proposea statistical framework to solve and generateChinese character riddles.
Specifically, welearn the alignments and rules to identify themetaphors between phrases in riddles and rad-icals in characters.
Then, in the solving phase,we utilize a dynamic programming methodto combine the identified metaphors to obtaincandidate solutions.
In the riddle generationphase, we use a template-based method anda replacement-based method to obtain candi-date riddle descriptions.
We then use Rank-ing SVM to rerank the candidates both in thesolving and generation process.
Experimentalresults in the solving task show that the pro-posed method outperforms baseline methods.We also get very promising results in the gen-eration task according to human judges.1 IntroductionThe riddle is regarded as one of the most uniqueand vital elements in traditional Chinese culture,which is usually composed of a riddle description?The work was done when the first author and the thirdauthor were interns at Microsoft Research Asia.and a corresponding solution.
The character rid-dle is one of the most popular forms of various rid-dles in which the riddle solution is a single Chinesecharacter.
While English words are strings of let-ters together, Chinese characters are composed ofradicals that associate with meaning or metaphor.In other words, Chinese characters are usually posi-tioned into some common structures, such as upper-lower structure, left-right structure, inside-outsidestructure, which means they can be decomposedinto other characters or radicals.
For example, ???
(good), a character with left-right structure, can bedecomposed into ???
(daughter) and ???
(son).
Asillustrated in Figure 1(a), the left part of ???
is ??
?and the right part is ???.
???
and ???
are calledthe ?radical?
of ???.
Figure 1(b) is another exam-ple of the character ???
(miss) with an upper-lowerstructure.??
?gooddaughter son(a) Left-Right Structure?
?
?fieldm issheart(b) Upper-Lower StructureFigure 1: Examples of the structure of Chinese charactersOne of the most important characteristics of char-acter riddle lies in the structure of Chinese charac-ters.
Unlike the common riddles which imply theobject in the riddle descriptions, character riddlespay more attention to structures such as combinationof radicals and decomposition of characters.
Ac-cording to these characteristics, metaphors in the846?
?
?
?
?thousand kilometer meet thousand gold?
?
?horse daughtermotherFigure 2: An example of Chinese character riddle: The solution???
is composed of the radical ???
derived from ????
and???
derived from ???
?.riddles always imply the radicals of characters.We show an example of a Chinese character rid-dle in Figure 2.
The riddle description is ???????
and the riddle solution is ???.
In this exam-ple, ??
??
(thousand kilometer) aligns with ???
(horse) because in Chinese culture it is said that agood horse can run thousands of kilometers per day.Furthermore, ??
??
(thousand gold) aligns with???
(daughter) because of the analogy that a daugh-ter is very important in the family.
The final solution???
is composed of these two metaphors becausethe radical ???
meets the radical ???.
Radicals canbe derived not only from the meaning of metaphors,but also from the structure of characters.
We will de-scribe the alignments and rules in detail in Section 3.In this paper, we propose a statistical frameworkto solve and generate Chinese character riddles.
Weshow our pipeline in Figure 3.
First, we learn thecommon alignments and the combination rules fromlarge riddle-solution pairs which are mined from theWeb.
The alignments and rules are used to identifythe metaphors in the riddles.
Second, in the solvingphase, we utilize a dynamic programming algorithmon the basis of the alignments and rules to figure outthe candidate solutions.
For the generating phase,we use a template-based method and a replacement-based method based on the decomposition of thecharacter to generate the candidate riddles.
Finally,we employ Ranking SVM to rank the candidates inboth the solving and generation task.
We conductthe evaluation on 2,000 riddles in the riddle solvingtask and 100 Chinese characters in the riddle gener-ation task.
Experimental results show that the pro-posed method outperforms baseline methods in thesolving task.
We also get very promising results inthe generation task according to human judges.2 Related WorkTo the best of our knowledge, no previous work hasstudied on Chinese riddles.
For other languages,there are a few approaches concentrated on solv-ing English riddles.
Pepicello and Green (1984) de-scribe the various strategies incorporated in riddles.
(De Palma and Weiner, 1992; Weiner and De Palma,1993) use the knowledge representation system tosolve English riddles that consist of a single sen-tence question followed by a single sentence an-swer.
They propose to build the relation between thephonemic representation and their associated lexi-cal concepts.
Binsted and Ritchie (1994) imple-ment a program JAPE which generates riddles fromhumour-independent lexical entries and evaluate thebehaviour of the program by 120 children (Binstedet al, 1997).
Olaosun and Faleye (2015) identifymeaning construction strategies in selected Englishriddles in the web and account for the mental pro-cesses involved in their production, which showsthat the meaning of a riddle is an imposed mean-ing that relates to the logical, experiential, linguistic,literary and intuitive judgments of the riddles.
Be-sides, there are some studies in Yoruba(Ak??nyem?
?,2015b; Ak??nyem?
?, 2015a; Magaji, 2014).
All ofthese works focus on the semantic meaning, whichis different from Chinese character riddles that focuson the structure of characters.Another popular word game is Crossword Puzzles(CPs) that normally has the form of a square or rect-angular grid of white and black shaded squares.
Thewhite squares on the border of the grid or adjacent tothe black ones are associated with clues.
Comparedwith our riddle task, the clues in the CPs are derivedfrom each question where the radicals in solution arederived from the metaphors in the riddles.
Proverb(Littman et al, 2002) is the first system for the au-tomatic resolution of CPs.
Ernandes et al (2005)utilize a web-search module to find sensible candi-dates to questions expressed in natural language andget the final answer by ranking the candidates.
Andthe rule-based module and the dictionary module arementioned in his work.
The tree kernel is used torerank the candidates proposed by Barlacchi et al(2014) for automatic resolution of crossword puz-zles.From another perspective, there are a few projects847Riddle SolvingOffline LearningRiddle/Solution PairsPhrase-Radical Alignmentand Rule LearningAlignmentTableRule TableSolutionSolutionRankingSolution CandidateGenerationRiddle DescriptionRiddle GenerationRiddle DescriptionRiddleRankingRiddle CandidateGenerationSolution (ChineseCharacter)Figure 3: The pipeline of offline learning, riddle solving and riddle generationon Chinese language cultures, such as the coupletgeneration and the poem generation.
A statisticalmachine translation (SMT) framework is proposedto generate Chinese couplets and classic Chinese po-etry (He et al, 2012; Zhou et al, 2009; Jiang andZhou, 2008).
Jiang and Zhou (2008) use a phrase-based SMT model with linguistic filters to generateChinese couplets satisfied couplet constraints, usingboth human judgments and BLEU scores as the eval-uation.
Zhou et al (2009) use the SMT model togenerate quatrain with a human evaluation.
He et al(2012) generate Chinese poems with the given topicwords by combining a statistical machine translationmodel with an ancient poetic phrase taxonomy.
Fol-lowing the approaches in SMT framework, it is validto regard the metaphors with its radicals as the align-ments.
There are several works using neural networkto generate Chinese poems(Zhang and Lapata, 2014;Yi et al, 2016).
Due to the limited data and strictrules, it is hard to transfer to the riddle generation.3 Phrase-Radical Alignments and RulesThe metaphor is one of the key components in bothsolving and generation.
On the one hand we need toidentify these metaphors since each of them alignsa radical in the final solution.
On the other hand,we need to integrate these metaphors into the rid-dle descriptions to generate riddles.
Thus, how toextract the metaphors of riddles becomes a big chal-lenge in our task.
Below we introduce our methodto extract the metaphors based on the phrase-radicalalignments and rules.We exploit the phrase-radical alignments as to de-scribe the simple metaphors, e.g.
??
??
aligns??
?, which aligns the phrase and the radical by themeaning.
We employ a statistical framework witha word alignment algorithm to automatically minephrase-radical metaphors from riddle dataset.
Con-sidering the alignment is often represented as thematching between successive words in the riddle anda radical in the solution, we propose two methodsspecifically to extract alignments.
The first methodin according with (Och and Ney, 2003) is describedas follows.
With a riddle description q and corre-sponding solution s, we tokenize the input riddleq to character as (w1, w2, .
.
.
, wn) and decomposethe solution s into radicals as (r1, r2, .
.
.
, rm).
Wecount all ([wi, wj ], rk)(i, j ?
[1, n], k ?
[1,m])as alignments.
The second method takes into ac-count more structural information of characters.
Let(w1, w2) denote two successive characters in the rid-dle q.
If w1 is a radical of w2 and the rest parts ofw2 as r appear in the solution q, we strongly sup-port that ((w1, w2), r) is a alignment.
It is identicalif w2 is a radical of w1.
We count all alignments andfilter out the alignments whose occurrence numberis lower than 3.
Some high-frequency alignmentsare shown in Table 1.
For example, ????
(square)aligns ???
(mouth) because of the similar shape and?????
(two decades) aligns ???
(grass) because???
looks like two small ??
?s.Besides alignments are represented as commoncollocations, there is another kind of commonmetaphors concentrating on the structure of char-acters.
We define 6 categories of rules shown inTable 2 to identify this kind of metaphors.
A848Bigram Alignments Radical Frequency Trigram Alignments Radical Frequency??
?
77 ???
?
21(west lake) (water) (two decades) (grass)??
?
40 ???
?
19(square) (mouth) (center of party) (mouth)??
?
36 ???
?
16(thousand kilometer) (horse) (sweetheart) (sun)Table 1: The high-frequency alignmentsCategory Description ExamplesHalf take half of the matched placeholder as radicals [????](.)[half,snap,break,side](.
)A-B remove the B as radical in A to compose a new Chinese character [????](.)(.)[subtract,leave,not,lack](.)(.
)UpperRemove remove the upper-side radical of the matched placeholder (.)[?]0,1[??](.
)[character](0,1)[lower,south]LowerRemove remove the lower-side radical of the matched placeholder [????](.)[top,front,up,north](.
)LeftRemove remove the left-side radical of the matched placeholder (.)[?]0,1[??](.
)[character](0,1)[right,east]RightRemove remove the right-side radical of the matched placeholder (.)[?]0,1[??](.
)[character](0,1)[left,west]Table 2: The descriptions and examples of rulesrule is often represented as an operation that ap-plies to a character for obtaining parts of it as rad-icals.
For example, the character ???
(up) is usu-ally represented as an operation to get the upperradical of the corresponding character.
We extractthe rules from the phrase-radical alignments we justobtain.
In a phrase-radical alignment, if a radi-cal appears in the one part of a character, we sup-port that this radical is derived from this charac-ter, which means the other words in the phrasemay describe an operation to this character.
Wereplace this radical to a placeholder and generatea candidate rule with the corresponding directionby the radical position in this character.
Thus,for each phrase-radical alignment ([w1, wn], r), wecount (w1, .
.
.
, wi?1, (.
), wi+1, .
.
.
, wn) as a poten-tial rule only if r is a radical ofwi.
We count all ruleslearned from data, and filter out the rules whose oc-currence number is lower than 5.
Some rules areshown in Table 2.
The word or phrase in the rule?A-B?
mostly has the analogous meaning of ?re-moving?.
The word or phrase in the rule ?Half?mostly has the analogous meaning of ?half?.
Asfor the rules ?LeftRemove?, ?RightRemove?, ?Up-perRemove?
and ?LowerRemove?, there are usuallya word or phrase that means ?removing?
as well asthe others mean the ?position?
and ?direction?.We mine 14,090 phrase-radical alignments in to-tal.
More than 1,000 Chinese characters have at leastone alignment, and there are 27 characters with morethan 100 alignments.
Common radicals are almostall contained in our alignments set.
Chinese char-acter is mostly composed of these common radical,so these alignments are enough for our task.
We ex-tract 193 rules in total for all categories of rules, allof them are applied to the riddle solving and the rid-dle generation.4 Riddle Solving and Generation4.1 Solving Chinese Character RiddlesThe process of solving riddles has two components.First, we identify the metaphors in the riddle asmuch as possible by matching the phrase-radicalalignments and rules, and integrate these metaphorsto obtain a candidate set of solutions.
Each candi-date contains the corresponding parsing clues thatimply how and why it is generated as its features.Second, we employ a ranking model to determinethe best solution as output.
Below we introduce ourmethod to generate solution candidates, and we will849RSAFPath[1,2]- >  ?Path[1,7] - >Path[3,3]- >  ?Path[5,7]- >  ?on  sentry  must  wear  safety  helmet???
?1          2          3          4          5          6          7?
?
?
?
?
?
?SPath[4,4]- >  ?
?Figure 4: The decoding process of ??
?
?
?
?
?
?
?.-R: Path[1,2] records the clue that ??
??
matches ???
bythe rule.
-S: Path[3,3] records the clue that ???
matches itselfand Path[4,4] records ???.
-A: Path[5,7] records the clue that??
?
??
matches ???
by the alignment.
-F: We get a finalsolution candidate in Path[1,7] by above clues.
In this example,the character ???
from Path[4,4] is irrelevant to the solution.introduce the ranking model in Section 4.3.It is common that two metaphors do not share acharacter and the metaphor is composed of succes-sive characters.
Therefore, we utilize a dynamic pro-gramming algorithm based on the CYK algorithm(Kasami, 1965) to identify the metaphors with thehelp of the learned alignments and the predefinedrules.
We describe the algorithm in Algorithm 1.An example to illustrate our algorithm is ??
??
?
?
?
?
?, where the corresponding solutionis ???.
As shown in Figure 4, ??
??
(on sentry)aligns ???
by matching the rule ??
(up) (.)?
whichmeans to take the upper part of the character ???.???
and ???
aligns itself.
And the phrase ??
???
(safety helmet) aligns to the radical ???
by thealignments because of the analogical shape.
Ourranking model will get the final solution ???
bythese clues.4.2 Generating Chinese Character RiddlesTwo major components are required in the processof riddle generation.
The first step is to generate alist of candidates of riddle descriptions for a Chi-nese character as the solution.
The second step is torank the candidate riddle descriptions and select thetop-N (e.g.
10) candidates as the output.
Below weAlgorithm 1: Candidate generation for riddlesolvingInput : Riddle q, Alignment, RuleOutput: Path[1,n]1 Tokenize the input riddle q to w1, w2, .
.
.
, wn;2 for len?
0 to n?
1 do3 for j ?
i = len do4 if len = 0 then5 Character can align itself ;6 Path[i, j].Add([wi, wi]?
wi) ;7 end8 else if [wi, wj ] in Alignment then9 Obtain the corresponding radical rin Alignment ;10 Path[i, j].Add([wi, wj ]?
r) ;11 end12 else if [wi, wj ] matchs Rule then13 Run the predefined operation of theRule, obtain radical r ;14 Path[i, j].Add([wi, wj ]?
r) ;15 end16 foreach k in [i,j-1] do17 Path[i, j].Add(Path[i, k]?Path[k + 1, j]) ;18 end19 end20 endintroduce our method to generate candidates of rid-dle descriptions, and we will introduce the rankingmodel in Section 4.3.We propose two strategies to generate the candi-date riddle descriptions for a given Chinese charac-ter, called the template-based method and the re-placement based-method, respectively.
First weshow our template-based method to generate rid-dles.
The most natural method is to connect themetaphor of each radical.
For a character and itspossible splitting RD = rdi, we select a correspond-ing metaphor by the alignment or rule, and then weconnect all metaphor without any other conjunctionwords to form a riddle.
The further method is to adda few conjunction words between each metaphor,which can make the riddle more coherent.
We re-move the recognized metaphors in riddle sentences,850Feature DescriptionCorrect Radical number of radicals matchedMissing Radical number of radicals not matchedDisappearing Radical number of radicals that disappear in all characters of riddle descriptionsSingle Matching number of clues derived from character itselfAlignment Matching number of clues derived from alignmentsRule Matching number of clues derived from rulesLength Rate ratio of the length of cluesFrequency prior probability of this character as a solutionTable 3: Features for riddle solvingFeature DescriptionRiddle Length length in characters of the candidate riddleRiddle Relative Length abs(Riddle Length-5) because the length of common riddles is between 3 and 7Number Radical number of radicals that the character decomposeAvg Freq Character average number of frequencies of characters in riddleMax Freq Radical maximized number of frequencies of characters in riddleNumber Alignment number of alignments used for generating the candidateLength Alignment length of words from alignmentsNumber Rule number of rules used for generating the candidateLength Rule length of words from rulesLM Score R score of language model trained by Chinese riddles, poems and coupletsLM Score G score of language model trained by web documentsTable 4: Features for riddle generationand count the unigram and bigram word frequencyof the rest words.
These words are usually commonconjunctions.
We sample these words based on thefrequency distribution and add them into the riddlesto connect the metaphor of each radical.Second, we use an alternative replacement-basedmethod to generate the candidate riddle descriptions.Instead of generating the riddle descriptions totallyfrom scratch, we try to replacement part of an ex-isting riddle to generate a new riddle description.Let w = (w1, w2, .
.
.
, wn) denote the word se-quence of a riddle description on our dataset, wheren denotes the length of the riddle in character.
Let[wi, wj] (i,j ?
[1,n]) denote the word span that canbe aligned to a radical rd, and let X=(x1, .
.
.
, xm)denotes the corresponding phrase descriptions of rd.We then replace [wi, wj ] ?
X with the other alter-native phrases descriptions of rd in X.
We try all thepossible replacements to generate riddle candidates.This method can generate candidate riddles that aremore natural and fluent.4.3 Ranking ModelAbove we introduce the algorithm to solve and gen-erate candidates, respectively.
Then, we develop aranking model to determine the final output.
Belowwe show the ranking model.The ranking score is calculated asScore(c) =m?i=1?i ?
gi(c) (1)where c represents a candidate, gi(c) represents thei-th feature in the ranking model, m represents thenumber of features in total, and ?i represents theweight of the feature.
The features of riddle solvingand riddle generation are in Table 3 and Table 4, re-spectively.
We use Ranking SVM (Joachims, 2006)1to do the model training to get the feature weights.The weights of the features are trained with riddle-solution pairs.
Specifically, in the riddle solvingtask, for the set of solution candidates, we hold thatthe original solution as the positive sample and oth-ers are the negative samples.
Using the dynamicprogramming algorithm to obtain a list of solutioncandidates, the training process try to optimize thefeature weights so that the ranking score of the orig-inal solution is greater than any of the ones from the1https://www.cs.cornell.edu/people/tj/svm_light/svm_rank.html851candidate list.
In the riddle generation task, we se-lect 100 characters on the basis of the frequency dis-tribution of characters as a solution.
For each char-acter we use the riddle generation module to gener-ate a list of riddle candidates.
And we label thesecandidates manually where the better riddle descrip-tions get the higher score.
Then the training processoptimizes the feature weights.5 Experimental Study5.1 DatasetWe crawl 77,308 character riddles including riddledescriptions with its solution from the Web.
All ofthese riddle-solution pairs concentrate on the struc-ture of characters.A stroke table, that contains 3,755 characters en-coded in the first level of GB2312-80, is providedto describe how a Chinese character is decomposedinto its corresponding radicals.
Characters may havemore than one splitting forms and a character is typ-ically composed of no more than 3 radicals.The data for training language model in riddlestyle include two parts: One is the corpus of rid-dles mentioned above, and the other is a corpus ofChinese poem and Chinese couplets because of thesimilar language style.
We follow the method thatproposed by (He et al, 2012; Zhou et al, 2009),to download the <Tang Poems>,<Song Poems>,<Ming Poems>, <Qing Poems>, <Tai Poems>from the Internet, and use the method proposed byFan et al (2007) to recursively mine those datawith the help of some seed poems and couplets.It amounts to more than 3,500,000 sentences and670,000 couplets.
Besides the language modeltrained in riddle style, we also train a general lan-guage model with the web documents.5.2 Evaluation on Riddle SolvingWe randomly select 2,000 riddles from the riddledataset as the test data, and 500 riddles as the de-velopment data, while the rest as training data.Our system always returns a ranking list of candi-date solutions, so we use the Acc@k (k = 1, 5, 10)as the evaluation metric.
The Acc@k is the fractionof questions which obtain correct answers in theirtop-k results.Giza++ (Och, 2001) is a common tool to extractFeature Set Acc@1 Acc@5 Acc@10G 10.3 12.0 13.6G+A 17.0 19.2 19.9A 18.7 22.7 24.2G+A+R 28.4 31.0 31.4A+R 28.8 31.8 32.1Table 5: Results of evaluation on test dataset with 2,000 rid-dles.
-G: The alignments from GIZA++.
-A: The alignmentsextracted following our method in Section 3.
-R: Using the rulesto identify the metaphors between the phrase and the radical fol-lowing our method in Section 3.
Our method (A+R) achievesbetter performances than the baseline methods from GIZA++.Ranking Method Acc@1 Acc@5 Acc@10Jaccard Similarity 26.2 30.2 31.2Ranking SVM 28.8 31.8 32.1Table 6: Results of evaluation between ranking methods us-ing the feature set (A+R).
The Ranking SVM achieves betterperformances than the baseline metric from Jaccard similaritycoefficient.the alignment between bilingual corpuses.
We useit as our baseline system that extracts the alignmentsautomatically.
And we use the Jaccard similarity co-efficient as the baseline ranking metric.
The Jaccardsimilarity coefficient is defined as:J(A,B) = A?BA?B (2)where A means the radicals set of the solution and Bmeans the radicals set of the candidate.The results are reported in the Table 5 and Ta-ble 6.
The baseline method can only give aboutone-tenth correct solution at the Acc@1.
Comparedwith the baseline model, by using the alignmentsextracted by our method, the system can improve6.7% at the Acc@1 and 6.3% at Acc@10.
A phe-nomenon is that only using the alignments we ex-tract has the better results than combining it with thealignments from Giza++ because metaphors match-ing between phrases and characters are particularin our riddle task.
Small changes in the phrasecan affect the character that it implies and it maybe not a metaphor even if a character in phrase ischanged.
Furthermore, by using rules to identifythe metaphors in riddles, we get an improvement of10.1% at Acc@1, which proves the validity of the852Score Criterion5 Elegant metaphors, totally coherent4 Correct metaphors, mostly coherent3 Acceptable metaphors, more of less coherent2 Tolerable metaphors, little coherent1 Wrong metaphors, incoherentTable 7: The criterion of riddle evaluationrule we define.
The results prove that it is valid touse the alignments and rules that we extract to iden-tify the metaphors in our character riddle task.
Thecomparison between Jaccard similarity coefficientand our Ranking SVM method shows that the Rank-ing SVM is better with an improvement of 2.6% atAcc@1, which prove that compared to the Jaccardsimilarity coefficient, the Ranking SVM determinethe solution more correct if we successfully iden-tify all metaphors in riddle descriptions.
Moreover,there is less improvement beyond Acc@5, whichmeans the ranking model gets better results even ifthe system cannot identify all metaphors in riddledescriptions.
We think that unlike the Jaccard sim-ilarity coefficient which only uses the features be-tween the candidate character and the correct solu-tion, the ranking model uses extra features in theriddles descriptions, e.g.
the number of disappear-ing radicals, which helps to exclude obvious wrongcandidates.5.3 Evaluation on Riddle GenerationBecause there is no previous work about Chineseriddle generation, in order to prove its soundness,we conduct human evaluations on this task in accor-dance with the following two reasons.
Firstly, thegenerated riddles, which is different from the certainand unique solution in the riddle solving task, arevaried.
So it is hard to measure the quality of gen-erated riddles with a well defined answer set.
Sec-ondly, small differences in riddles have a great effecton the corresponding solution.
It may imply distinctradicals even if only a character in the metaphors ischanged.
The existing metrics such as BLEU, arenot suitable for our task.
Based on above analysis,each riddle that the system generates is evaluated byhuman annotators according to a 5 division criteriondescribed in Table 7.We randomly sample 100 characters followingthe distribution of the character as a solution.
TheMethod Avg(Score)Template-based Method 3.49Replacement-based Method 4.14Riddle from dataset 4.38Table 8: Human evaluation of different methodssystem generates riddle descriptions following themethods in Section 4.2 for each character.
Some-times the riddles we generate exist in our trainingdata.
We remove these riddles for the reason thatwe want to evaluate the ability of generating newriddles.
In order to avoid the influence of annota-tors and compare the riddles generated by the sys-tem with the riddles written by human beings, theriddles are randomly disordered so that the annota-tors do not know the generating method of each rid-dle.
For each character, we select 5 riddles generatedby the template-base method, 5 riddles generated bythe replacement-based method, and 2 riddles fromthe riddles dataset written by human beings, whichform a set of 12 riddles in total.
The annotators scoreeach riddle according to the above criterion.The result is shown in Table 8.
The riddles writ-ten by human beings from the riddle dataset getthe highest score than the riddles generated by thesystem.
The riddles generated by the replacement-based method have a greater improvement than thebasic template-based method.
We consider that thereplacement-based method retains some human in-formation, which makes the generated riddles morecoherent.Another result is that the riddle whose solutionis a common character or is composed of commonradicals gets the higher score, which is explicit thatwe can get the better results if we have the morealternative metaphors of a radical.Below we show two examples of the riddle de-scriptions generated with the solution ???
(miss)which often decompose into ???
(field) and???
(heart) shown in Figure 1(b).?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
(Three stars with themoon, like in the picture): The radical ???
isthe inside part of ???.
The shape of ???
isthree points and a curved line, which looks likethree stars around a crescent.?
???????
(Every day in my heart):853The radical ???
is composed of two ??
?s, and???
occurs in the riddle description.
The char-acter ???
(top) means the radical ???
is on thetop position.6 ConclusionWe introduce a novel approach to solving and gen-erating Chinese character riddles.
We extract align-ments and rules to capture the metaphors of phrasesin riddle descriptions and radicals in the solutioncharacters.
In total, we obtain 14,090 alignmentsthat imply the metaphors between phrases and rad-icals as well as 193 rules in 6 categories formedas regular expressions.
To solve riddles, we utilizea dynamic programming algorithm to combine theidentified metaphors based on the alignments andrules to obtain the candidate solutions.
To gener-ate riddles, we propose a template-based method anda replacement-based method to generate candidateriddle descriptions.
We employ the Ranking SVMto rank the candidates on both the riddle solving andgeneration.
Our method outperforms baseline meth-ods in the solving task.
We also get promising re-sults in the generation task by human evaluation.AcknowledgmentsThe first author and the fourth author are sup-ported by the National Natural Science Foundationof China (Grant No.
61421003).ReferencesAk??ntu?nde?
Ak??nyem??.
2015a.
Riddles and metaphors:The creation of meaning.
pages 37?87.
Springer.Ak??ntu?nde?
Ak??nyem??.
2015b.
Yoru`ba?
riddles in perfor-mance: Content and context.
In Orature and YorubaRiddles, pages 11?35.
Springer.Gianni Barlacchi, Massimo Nicosia, and AlessandroMoschitti.
2014.
Learning to rank answer candi-dates for automatic resolution of crossword puzzles.In CoNLL, pages 39?48.Kim Binsted and Graeme Ritchie.
1994.
An imple-mented model of punning riddles.
Technical report,University of Edinburgh, Department of Artificial In-telligence.Kim Binsted, Helen Pain, and Graeme Ritchie.
1997.Children?s evaluation of computer-generated punningriddles.
Pragmatics & Cognition, 5(2):305?354.Paul De Palma and E Judith Weiner.
1992.
Riddles:accessibility and knowledge representation.
In Pro-ceedings of the 14th conference on Computationallinguistics-Volume 4, pages 1121?1125.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Marco Ernandes, Giovanni Angelini, and Marco Gori.2005.
Webcrow: A web-based system for crosswordsolving.
In AAAI, pages 1412?1417.Cong Fan, Long Jiang, Ming Zhou, and Shi-Long Wang.2007.
Mining collective pair data from the web.In Machine Learning and Cybernetics, 2007 Interna-tional Conference on, volume 7, pages 3997?4002.IEEE.Jing He, Ming Zhou, and Long Jiang.
2012.
Generat-ing chinese classical poems with statistical machinetranslation models.
In Proceedings of the Twenty-SixthAAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, July 22-26,2012, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.Long Jiang and Ming Zhou.
2008.
Generating chinesecouplets using a statistical mt approach.
In Proceed-ings of the 22nd International Conference on Compu-tational Linguistics-Volume 1, pages 377?384.
Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics.Thorsten Joachims.
2006.
Training linear svms in lineartime.
In Proceedings of the 12th ACM SIGKDD inter-national conference on Knowledge discovery and datamining, pages 217?226.
ACM.Tadao Kasami.
1965.
An efficient recognition and syntaxanalysis algorithm for context-free languages.
Techni-cal report, DTIC Document.Michael L Littman, Greg A Keim, and Noam Shazeer.2002.
A probabilistic approach to solving crosswordpuzzles.
Artificial Intelligence, 134(1):23?55.Maryam Yusuf Magaji.
2014.
Morphology, syntax andfunctions of the kilba folk riddles.
International Jour-nal on Studies in English Language and LiteratureI-JSELL.Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney.
2003.
A system-atic comparison of various statistical alignment mod-els.
Computational linguistics, 29(1):19?51.Franz Josef Och.
2001.
Training of statistical translationmodels.Ibrahim Esan Olaosun and James Oladunjoye Faleye.2015.
A cognitive semantic study of some english rid-dles and their answers in amidst a tangled web.
AsianJournal of Social Sciences & Humanities Vol, 4:2.William J Pepicello and Thomas A Green.
1984.
Lan-guage of riddles: new perspectives.
The Ohio StateUniversity Press.E Judith Weiner and Paul De Palma.
1993.
Some prag-matic features of lexical ambiguity and simple riddles.Language & communication, 13(3):183?193.854Xiaoyuan Yi, Ruoyu Li, and Maosong Sun.
2016.Generating chinese classical poems with rnn encoder-decoder.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1604.01537.Xingxing Zhang and Mirella Lapata.
2014.
Chinesepoetry generation with recurrent neural networks.
InEMNLP, pages 670?680.Ming Zhou, Long Jiang, and Jing He.
2009.
Generat-ing chinese couplets and quatrain using a statistical ap-proach.
In PACLIC, pages 43?52.855
