Proceedings of the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 690?699,Austin, Texas, November 1-5, 2016. c?2016 Association for Computational LinguisticsIdentifying Dogmatism in Social Media: Signals and ModelsEthan Fast and Eric Horvitzethaen@stanford.edu, horvitz@microsoft.comAbstractWe explore linguistic and behavioral featuresof dogmatism in social media and constructstatistical models that can identify dogmaticcomments.
Our model is based on a corpus ofReddit posts, collected across a diverse set ofconversational topics and annotated via paidcrowdsourcing.
We operationalize key aspectsof dogmatism described by existing psychol-ogy theories (such as over-confidence), find-ing they have predictive power.
We also findevidence for new signals of dogmatism, suchas the tendency of dogmatic posts to refrainfrom signaling cognitive processes.
When weuse our predictive model to analyze millionsof other Reddit posts, we find evidence thatsuggests dogmatism is a deeper personalitytrait, present for dogmatic users across manydifferent domains, and that users who engageon dogmatic comments tend to show increasesin dogmatic posts themselves.1 Introduction?I?m supposed to trust the opinion of a MS min-ion?
The people that produced Windows ME, Vistaand 8?
They don?t even understand people, yet theythink they can predict the behavior of new, self-guiding AI??
?anonymous?I think an AI would make it easier for Patients toconfide their information because by nature, a robotcannot judge them.
Win-win?
:D??
?anonymousDogmatism describes the tendency to lay downopinions as incontrovertibly true, without respect forconflicting evidence or the opinions of others (Ox-ford Dictionary, 2016).
Which user is more dog-matic in the examples above?
This question is sim-ple for humans.
Phrases like ?they think?
and ?theydon?t even understand,?
suggest an intractability ofopinion, while ?I think?
and ?win-win??
suggestthe opposite.
Can we train computers to draw sim-ilar distinctions?
Work in psychology has calledout many aspects of dogmatism that can be modeledcomputationally via natural language, such as over-confidence and strong emotions (Rokeach, 1954).We present a statistical model of dogmatism thataddresses two complementary goals.
First, we val-idate psychological theories by examining the pre-dictive power of feature sets that guide the model?spredictions.
For example, do linguistic signals ofcertainty help to predict a post is dogmatic, as the-ory would suggest?
Second, we apply our model toanswer four questions:R1: What kinds of topics (e.g., guns, LGBT) at-tract the highest levels of dogmatism?R2: How do dogmatic beliefs cluster?R3: How does dogmatism influence a conversa-tion on social media?R4: How do other user behaviors (e.g., frequencyand breadth of posts) relate to dogmatism?We train a predictive model to classify dogmaticposts from Reddit, one of the most popular discus-sion communities on the web.1 Posts on Reddit cap-ture discussion and debate across a diverse set of do-mains and topics ?
users talk about everything fromclimate change and abortion, to world news and re-lationship advice, to the future of artificial intelli-gence.
As a prerequisite to training our model, wehave created a corpus of 5,000 Reddit posts anno-tated with levels of dogmatism, which we are releas-ing to share with other researchers.1http://www.reddit.com690Figure 1: We crowdsourced dogmatism labels for 5000 com-ments.
The distribution is slightly skewed towards higher lev-els of dogmatism.
For example, crowdworkers unanimously la-beled 206 comments as highly dogmatic (5?
3 = 15), but only47 as minimally dogmatic (1?
3 = 3).Using the model, we operationalize key domain-independent aspects of psychological theories ofdogmatism drawn from the literature.
We find thesefeatures have predictive power that largely supportsthe underlying theory.
For example, posts that useless confident language tend to be less dogmatic.We also discover evidence for new attributes of dog-matism.
For example, dogmatic posts tend not toverbalize cognition, through terms such as ?I think,??possibly,?
or ?might be.
?Our model is trained on only 5,000 annotatedposts, but once trained, we use it to analyze millionsof other Reddit posts to answer our research ques-tions.
We find a diverse set of topics are colored bydogmatic language (e.g., people are dogmatic aboutreligion, but also about LGBT issues).
Further, wefind some evidence for dogmatism as a deeper per-sonality trait ?
people who are strongly dogmaticabout one topic are more likely to express dogmaticviews about others as well.
Finally, in conversation,we discover that one user?s dogmatism tends to bringout dogmatism in their conversational partner, form-ing a vicious cycle.2 Dogmatism dataPosts on Reddit capture debate and discussion acrossa diverse set of topics, making them a natural start-ing point for untangling domain-independent lin-guistic features of dogmatism.Data collection.
Subreddits are sub-communitieson Reddit oriented around specific interests or top-ics, such as technology or politics.
Sampling fromReddit as a whole would bias the model towards themost commonly discussed content.
But by samplingposts from individual subreddits, we can control thekinds of posts we use to train our model.
To collect adiverse training dataset, we have randomly sampled1000 posts each from the subreddits politics, busi-ness, science, and AskReddit, and 1000 additionalposts from the Reddit frontpage.
All posts in oursample appeared between January 2007 and March2015, and to control for length effects, contain be-tween 300 and 400 characters.
This results in a totaltraining dataset of 5000 posts.Dogmatism annotations.
Building a useful com-putational model requires labeled training data.
Welabeled the Reddit dataset using crowdworkers onAmazon Mechanical Turk (AMT), creating the firstpublic corpus annotated with levels of dogmatism.We asked crowdworkers to rate levels of dogmatismon a 5-point Likert scale, as supported by similarannotation tasks in prior work (Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al, 2013).
Concretely, we gave crowdwork-ers the following task:Given a comment, imagine you hold a well-informed, different opinion from the com-menter in question.
We?d like you to tell ushow likely that commenter would be to engageyou in a constructive conversation about yourdisagreement, where you each are able to ex-plore the other?s beliefs.
The options are:(5): It?s unlikely you?ll be able to engage inany substantive conversation.
When you re-spectfully express your disagreement, they arelikely to ignore you or insult you or otherwiselower the level of discourse.
(4): They are deeply rooted in their opinion,but you are able to exchange your views with-out the conversation degenerating too much.
(3): It?s not likely you?ll be able to changetheir mind, but you?re easily able to talk andunderstand each other?s point of view.
(2): They may have a clear opinion about thesubject, but would likely be open to discussingalternative viewpoints.
(1): They are not set in their opinion, and it?spossible you might change their mind.
If thecomment does not convey an opinion of anykind, you may also select this option.To ensure quality work, we restricted the taskto Masters workers and provided examples corre-sponding to each point on the scale.
Including ex-amples in a task has been shown to significantlyincrease the agreement and quality of crowdwork691(Doroudi et al, 2016).
For instance, here is an ex-ample of a highly dogmatic (5) comment:I won?t be happy until I see the executivesuite of BofA, Wells, and all the others, frog-marched into waiting squad cars.
It?s AL-READY BEEN ESTABLISHED that...And a minimally dogmatic (1) comment:I agree.
I would like to compile a playlist forus trance yogi?s, even if you just would like toexperiment with it.
Is there any preference onwhich platform to use?Each comment has been annotated by three indepen-dent workers on AMT, which is enough to producereliable results in most labeling tasks (Sheng et al,2008).
To compute an aggregate measure of dogma-tism for each comment, we summed the scores of allthree workers.
We show the resulting distribution ofannotations in Figure 1.Inter-annotator agreement.
To evaluate the reli-ability of annotations we compute Krippendorff?s ?,a measure of agreement designed for variable levelsof measurement such as a Likert scale (Hayes andKrippendorff, 2007).
An ?
of 0 indicates agreementindistinguishable from chance, while an ?
of 1 indi-cates perfect agreement.
Across all annotations wefind ?
= 0.44.
While workers agree much morethan chance, clearly dogmatism is also subjective.In fact, when we examine only the middle two quar-tiles of the dogmatism annotations, we find agree-ment is no better than chance.
Alternatively, whenwe measure agreement only among the top and bot-tom quartiles of annotations, we find agreement of?
= 0.69.
This suggests comments with scores thatare only slightly dogmatic are unreliable and oftensubject to human disagreement.
For this reason, weuse only the top and bottom quartiles of commentswhen training our model.3 Approaches to Identifying DogmatismWe now consider strategies for identifying dog-matism based on prior work in psychology.
Westart with the Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count(LIWC), a lexicon popular in the social sciences(Pennebaker et al, 2001).
LIWC provides humanvalidated lists of words that correspond to high-level psychological categories such as certainty orperception.
In other studies, LIWC has uncoveredlinguistic signals relating to politeness (Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al, 2013), deception (Yoo andGretzel, 2009), or authority in texts (Gilbert, 2012).Here, we examine how dogmatism relates to 17 ofLIWC?s categories (Table 1).To compute the relationships between LIWC cat-egories and dogmatism, we first count the relevantcategory terms that appear in each annotated Redditcomment, normalized by its word count.
We thencalculate odds ratios on the aggregate counts of eachLIWC category over the top and bottom quartiles ofdogmatic comments.
As we have discussed, usingthe top and bottom quartiles of comments providesa more reliable signal of dogmatism.
We check forsignificant differences in categories between dog-matic and non-dogmatic comments using the Mann-Whitney U test and apply Holmes method for cor-rection.
All odds we report in this section are signif-icant after correction.Dogmatic statements tend to express a high de-gree of certainty (Rokeach, 1954).
Here we considerLIWC categories that express certainty both posi-tively (certainty) and negatively (tentativeness).
Forexample, the word ?always?
is certain, while ?possi-bly?
is tentative.
Conforming to existing theory, cer-tainty is more associated with dogmatic comments(1.52 odds), while tentativeness is more associatedwith the absence of dogmatism (0.88 odds).Terms used to verbalize cognition can act as ahedge that often characterizes non-dogmatic lan-guage.
LIWC?s insight category captures this effectthrough words such as ?think,?
?know,?
or ?believe.
?These words add nuance to a statement (Pennebakerand Francis, 1996), signaling it is the product ofsomeone?s mind (?I think you should give this papera good review?)
and not meant to be interpreted asan objective truth.
Along these lines, we find the useof terms in the insight category is associated withnon-dogmatic comments (0.83 odds).Sensory language, with its focus on descriptionand detail, often signals a lack of any kind of opin-ion, dogmatic or otherwise.
LIWC?s perception cat-egory captures this idea through words associatedwith hearing, feeling, or seeing.
For example, thesewords might occur when recounting a personal ex-perience (?I saw his incoming fist?
), which even ifemotionally charged or negative, is less likely tobe dogmatic.
We find perception is associated with692Strategy Odds ExampleCertainty 1.33* Be a hate monger all you want...
Your life will never truly behappy though, and you will never know peace.Tentativeness 0.88* Most are likely to be more technically advanced and, if still usingradio, might very well be emitting signals we could detectInsight 0.83* I think stating the obvious is a necessary function.
Informationlike this is important to consider...Perception 0.77* I saw four crows on that same branch, staring at the deceased.The silence of the crows was deafening.Relativity 0.82* I?ve known a number to go into shock during the procedureComparison 0.91 This may be more than a coincidence.I (pronouns) 0.68* Like I said, I want to believe the former.
I?m glad it worked out.You (pronouns) 2.18* I don?t give a fuck what you do.
You can get drink yourself todeath, you can get yourself pregnant...We (pronouns) 0.96 We need a bigger, better, colder fridge.
We have worked hard...They (pronouns) 1.63* They want the ability to prosecute who they please.Past 0.69* I was walking past and thought about asking if they needed help.Present 1.11* Can I steal your organs and nutrients if I need them and you don?twant to give them up?Future 1.06 Trump?s thugs will be pretending to be Bernie supporters and willset fire to Philadelphia.Interrogatory 1.12* Gee, where was the NY Times back in the day?
Why didn?t wehear of the Kennedys, LBJ and FDR?Negation 1.35* If you didn?t know the woman well enough to know she didn?ttake BC regularly, you certainly don?t know her well enough toknow she doesn?t have an std.Negative emotion 2.32* A prank?!?
You arrogant son of a bitchPositive emotion 0.96 They were excellent fishermen - they built fine boats.Table 1: Linguistic features that capture high level psychological categories and their relationship with dogmatic comments.Strategy describes the psychological category.
Odds describes the likelihood that a category will appear more often in a dogmaticcomment (e.g., dogmatic comments are 2.18 times more likely to mention you-oriented phrases).
Example illustrates a commentthat matches the category.
* indicates significance (p < 0.05) after correction with Holmes method.non-dogmatic comments at 0.77 odds.Drawing comparisons or qualifying something asrelative to something else conveys a nuance that isabsent from traditionally dogmatic language.
TheLIWC categories comparison and relativity capturethese effects through comparison words such as?than?
or ?as?
and qualifying words such as ?dur-ing?
or ?when.?
For example, the statement ?I hatepoliticians?
is more dogmatic than ?I hate politicianswhen they can?t get anything done.?
Relativity is as-sociated with non-dogmatic comments at 0.80 odds,but comparison does not reach significance.Pronouns can be surprisingly revealing indicatorsof language: for example, signaling one?s genderor hierarchical status in a conversation (Pennebaker,2011).
We find first person singular pronouns area useful negative signal for dogmatism (0.46 odds),while second person singular pronouns (2.18 odds)and third person plural (1.63 odds) are a useful pos-itive signal.
Looking across the corpus, we see I of-ten used with a hedge (?I think?
or ?I know?
), whileyou and they tend to characterize the beliefs of oth-693ers, often in a strongly opinionated way (?you are amoron?
or ?they are keeping us down?).
Other pro-noun types do not show significant relationships.Like pronouns, verb tense can reveal subtle sig-nals in language use, such as the tendency of medi-cal inpatients to focus on the past (Wolf et al, 2007).On social media, comments written in the presenttense are more likely to be oriented towards a user?scurrent interaction (?this is all so stupid?
), creatingopportunities to signal dogmatism.
Alternatively,comments in the past tense are more likely to re-fer to outside experiences (?it was an awful party?
),speaking less to a user?s stance towards an ongoingdiscussion.
We find present tense is a positive sig-nal for dogmatism (1.11 odds) and past tense is anegative signal (0.69 odds).Dogmatic language can be either positively ornegatively charged in sentiment: for example, con-sider the positive statement ?Trump is the SAVIORof this country!!!?
or the negative statement ?Areyou REALLY that stupid??
Education is the onlyway out of this horrible mess.
It?s hard to imaginehow anyone could be so deluded.?
In diverse com-munities, where people hold many different kindsof opinions, dogmatic opinions will often tend tocome into conflict with one another (McCluskey andHmielowski, 2012), producing a greater likelihoodof negative sentiment.
Perhaps for this reason, neg-ative emotion (2.09 odds) is a useful positive signalof dogmatism, while positive emotion shows no sig-nificant relationship.Finally, we find that interrogative language (1.12odds) and negation (1.35 odds) are two additionalpositive signals of dogmatism.
While interrogativewords like ?how?
or ?what?
have many benign uses,they disproportionately appear in our data in theform of rhetorical or emotionally charged questions,such as ?how can anyone be that dumb?
?Many of these linguistic signals are correlatedwith each other, suggesting that dogmatism is thecumulative effect of many component relationships.For example, consider the relatively non-dogmaticstatement: ?I think the reviewers are wrong in thisinstance.?
Removing signals of insight, we have:?the reviewers are wrong in this instance,?
whichis slightly more dogmatic.
Then removing relativ-ity, we have: ?the reviewers are wrong.?
And fi-nally, adding certainty, we have a dogmatic state-Classifier In-domain Cross-domainBOW 0.853 0.776SENT 0.677 0.646LING 0.801 0.728BOW + SENT 0.860 0.783BOW + LING 0.881 0.791Table 2: The AUC scores for dogmatism classifiers within andacross domains.
BOW (bag-of-words) and SENT (sentimentsignals) are baselines, and LING uses the linguistic featuresfrom Table 1.
We compute in-domain accuracy using 15-foldcross-validation on the Reddit dataset, and cross-domain accu-racy by training on Reddit and evaluating on comments on arti-cles from the New York Times.
Chance AUC is 0.5.ment: ?the reviewers are always wrong.
?4 Predicting dogmatismWe now show how we can use the linguistic featuresets we have described to build a classifier that pre-dicts dogmatism in comments.
A predictive modelfurther validates our feature sets, and also allows usto analyze dogmatism in millions of other Redditcomments in a scalable way, with multiple uses inongoing, downstream analyses.Prediction task.
Our goal is (1) to understandhow well we can use the strategies in Section 3to predict dogmatism, and (2) to test the domain-independence of these strategies.
First, we test theperformance of our model under cross-validationwithin the Reddit comment dataset.
We then eval-uate the Reddit-based model on a held out corpusof New York Times comments annotated using thetechnique in Section 2.
We did not refer to this sec-ond dataset during feature construction.For classification, we consider two classes ofcomments: dogmatic and non-dogmatic.
As in theprior analysis, we draw these comments from the topand bottom quartiles of the dogmatism distribution.This means the classes are balanced, with 2,500 totalcomments in the Reddit training data and 500 totalcomments in the New York Times testing data.We compare the predictions of logistic regressionmodels based on unigram bag-of-words features(BOW), sentiment signals2 (SENT), the linguistic2For SENT, we use normalized word counts from LIWC?spositive and negative emotional categories.694features from our earlier analyses (LING), and com-binations of these features.
BOW and SENT providebaselines for the task.
We compute BOW featuresusing term frequency-inverse document frequency(TF-IDF) and category-based features by normaliz-ing counts for each category by the number of wordsin each document.
The BOW classifiers are trainedwith regularization (L2 penalties of 1.5).Classification results.
We present classificationaccuracy in Table 2.
BOW shows an AUC of 0.853within Reddit and 0.776 on the held out New YorkTimes comments.
The linguistic features boost clas-sification results within Reddit (0.881) and on theheld out New York Times comments (0.791).
Whilelinguistic signals by themselves provide strong pre-dictive power (0.801 AUC within domain), senti-ment signals are much less predictive.These results suggest that linguistic features in-spired by prior efforts in psychology are usefulfor predicting dogmatism in practice and generalizeacross new domains.5 Dogmatism in the Reddit CommunityWe now apply our dogmatism classifier to a largerdataset of posts, examining how dogmatic languageshapes the Reddit community.
Concretely, we ap-ply the BOW+LING model trained on the full Red-dit dataset to millions of new unannotated posts, la-beling these posts with a probability of dogmatismaccording to the classifier (0=non-dogmatic, 1=dog-matic).
We then use these dogmatism annotations toaddress four research questions.5.1 What subreddits have the highest andlowest levels of dogmatism?
(R1)A natural starting point for analyzing dogmatism onReddit is to examine how it characterizes the site?ssub-communities.
For example, we might expect tosee that subreddits oriented around topics such asabortion or climate change are more dogmatic, andsubreddits about cooking are less so.To answer this question, we randomly sample 1.6million posts from the entire Reddit community be-tween 2007 and 2015.
We then annotate each ofthese posts with dogmatism using our classifier, andcompute the average dogmatism level for each sub-reddit in the sample with at least 100 posts.Highest Score Lowest Scorecringepics 0.553 photography 0.399DebateAChristian 0.551 DIY 0.399DebateReligion 0.540 homebrewing 0.401politics 0.536 cigars 0.402ukpolitics 0.533 wicked edge 0.404atheism 0.529 guitar 0.406lgbt 0.527 gamedeals 0.406TumblrInAction 0.524 buildapc 0.407islam 0.523 techsupport 0.410SubredditDrama 0.520 travel 0.410Table 3: Subreddits with the highest and lowest dogmatismscores.
Politics and religion are common themes among themost dogmatic subreddits, while hobbies (e.g., photography,homebrewing, buildapc) show the least dogmatism.We present the results of this analysis in Table 3.The subreddits with the highest levels of dogmatismtend to be oriented around politics and religion (De-bateAChristian or ukpolitics), while those with thelowest levels tend to focus on hobbies (photogra-phy or homebrewing).
The subreddit with the high-est average dogmatism level, cringepics, is a placeto make fun of socially awkward messages, oftenfrom would-be romantic partners.
Dogmatism heretends to take the form of ?how could someone bethat stupid?
and is directed at the subject of the post,as opposed to other members of the community.Similarly, SubredditDrama is a community wherepeople come to talk about fights on the internet orsocial media.
These fights are often then extendedin discussion, for example: ?If the best you cancome up with is that something you did was legal,it?s probably time to own up to being an ass.?
Thepresence of this subreddit in our analysis providesa further sanity check that our model is capturing arobust signal of dogmatism.5.2 How do dogmatic beliefs cluster?
(R2)Dogmatism is widely considered to be a domain-specific attitude (for example, oriented towards re-ligion or politics) as opposed to a deeper personalitytrait (Rokeach, 1954).
Here we use Reddit as a lensto examine this idea more closely.
Are users whoare dogmatic about one topic likely to be dogmaticabout others?
Do clusters of dogmatism exist aroundparticular topics?
To find out, we examine the re-695Libertarianism business conspiracy science Christianity lgbtAnarcho Capitalism Bitcoin Republican Christianity DebateAChristian feminismsBitcoin economy conspiritard relationship advice DebateReligion Equalityronpaul entertainment ronpaul worldpolitics science SubredditDramaConservative TrueReddit collapse MensRights videos TwoXChromosomesAndroid socialism guns IAmA news MensRightsukpolitics bestof worldpolitics TwoXChromosomes Libertarianism offbeatEquality philosophy occupywallstreet WTF atheism fffffffuuuuuuuuuuuuTable 4: Clusters of subreddits that share dogmatic users.
For example, users who are dogmatic on the conspiracy subreddit (aplace to discuss conspiracy theories) are also likely to be dogmatic on guns or occupywallstreet.lationships between subreddits over which individ-ual users are dogmatic.
For example, if many usersoften post dogmatic comments on both the politicsand Christianity subreddits, but less often on world-news, that would suggest politics and Christianityare linked per a boost in likelihood of individualsbeing dogmatic in both.We sample 1000 Reddit users who posted at leastonce a year between 2007 and 2015 to construct acorpus of 10 million posts that constitute their entirepost history.
We then annotate these posts using theclassifier and compute the average dogmatism scoreper subreddit per user.
For example, one user mighthave an average dogmatism level of 0.55 for the pol-itics subreddit and 0.45 for the economics subred-dit.
Most users do not post in all subreddits, so wetrack only subreddits for which a user had posted atleast 10 times.
Any subreddits with an average dog-matism score higher than 0.50 we consider to be auser?s dogmatic subreddits.
We then count all pairsof these dogmatic subreddits.
For example, 45 usershave politics and technology among their dogmaticsubreddits, so we consider politics and technologyas linked 45 times.
We compute the mutual informa-tion (Church and Hanks, 1990) between these links,which gives us a measure of the subreddits that aremost related through dogmatism.We present the results of this analysis in Table 4,choosing clusters that represent a diverse set of top-ics.
For example, Libertarianism is linked throughdogmatism to other political communities like An-archo Capitalism, ronpaul, or ukpolitics, as well asother topical subreddits like guns or economy.
Sim-ilarly, people who are dogmatic in the business sub-reddit also tend to be dogmatic in subreddits for Bit-coin, socialism, and technology.
Notably, when weapply the same mutual information analysis to linksdefined by subreddits posted in by the same user, weFeature Directiontotal user posts ?proportion of posts in most active subreddit ?number of subreddits posted in ?average number of posts in active articles ?Table 5: User behavioral features that are positively and nega-tively associated with dogmatism.
?
means the feature is pos-itively predictive with dogmatism, and ?
means the feature isnegatively predictive.
For example, the more subreddits a userposts in, the less likely they are to be dogmatic.
All features arestatistically significant (p < 0.001).see dramatically different results.
For example, thesubreddits most linked to science through user postsare UpliftingNews, photoshopbattles, and firstworl-danarchist, and millionairemakers.Finally, we see less obvious connections betweensubreddits that suggest some people may be dog-matic by nature.
For example, among the users whoare dogmatic on politics, they are also disproportion-ately dogmatic on unrelated subreddits such as sci-ence (p < 0.001), technology (p < 0.001), IAmA(p < 0.001), and AskReddit (p < 0.05), with p-values computed under a binomial test.5.3 What user behaviors are predictive ofdogmatism?
(R3)We have shown dogmatism is captured by many lin-guistic features, but can we discover other high-leveluser behaviors that are similarly predictive?To find out, we compute metrics of user behaviorusing the data sample of 1000 users and 10 millionposts described in Section 5.2.
Specifically, we cal-culate (1) activity: a user?s total number of posts, (2)breadth: the number of subreddits a user has postedin, (3) focus: the proportion of a user?s posts thatappear in the subreddit where they are most active,and (4) engagement: the average number of posts auser contributes to each discussion they engage in.696We then fit these behavioral features to a linear re-gression model where we predict each user?s averagedogmatism level.
Positive coefficients in this modelare positively predictive of dogmatism, while nega-tive coefficients are negatively predictive.We find this model is significantly predicitive ofdogmatism (R2 = 0.1, p < 0.001), with all featuresreaching statistical significance (p < 0.001).
Activ-ity and focus are positively associated with dogma-tism, while breadth and engagement are negativelyassociated (Table 5).
Together, these results suggestdogmatic users tend to post frequently and in spe-cific communities, but are not as inclined to continueto engage with a discussion, once it has begun.5.4 How does dogmatism impact aconversation?
(R4)How does interacting with a dogmatic comment im-pact a conversation?
Are users able to shrug it off?Or do otherwise non-dogmatic users become moredogmatic themselves?To answer this question, we sample 600,000 con-versations triples from Reddit.
These conversationsconsist of two people (A and B) talking, with thestructure: A1 ?
B ?
A2.
This allows us to mea-sure the impact of B?s dogmatism on A?s response,while also controlling for the dogmatism level ini-tially set by A.
Concretely, we model the impact ofdogmatism on these conversations through a linearregression.
This model takes two features, the dog-matism levels of A1 and B, and predicts the dogma-tism response of A2.
If B?s dogmatism has no effecton A?s response, the coefficient that corresponds toB will not be significant in the model.
Alternatively,if B?s dogmatism does have some effect, it will becaptured by the model?s coefficient.We find the coefficient of the B feature in themodel is positively associated with dogmatism (p <0.001).
In other words, engagement with a dog-matic comment tends to make a user more dogmaticthemselves.
This effect holds when we run the samemodel on data subsets consisting only of dogmaticor non-dogmatic users, and also when we conserva-tively remove all words used by B from A?s response(i.e., controlling for quoting effects).6 Related WorkIn contrast to the computational models we have pre-sented, dogmatism is usually measured in psychol-ogy through survey scales, in which study partic-ipants answer questions designed to reveal under-lying personality attributes (Rokeach, 1954).
Overtime, these surveys have been updated (Shearmanand Levine, 2006) and improved to meet standardsof psychometric validity (Crowson, 2009).These surveys are often used to study the rela-tionship between dogmatism and other psychologi-cal phenomena.
For example, dogmatic people tendto show an increased tendency for confrontation (El-Nawawy and Powers, 2010) or moral conviction andreligiosity (Swink, 2011), and less likelihood of cog-nitive flexibility (Martin et al, 2011), even amongstereotypically non-dogmatic groups like atheists(Gurney et al, 2013).
From a behavioral standpoint,dogmatic people solve problems differently, spend-ing less time framing a problem and expressing morecertainty in their solution (Lohman, 2010).
Here wesimilarly examine how user behaviors on Reddit re-late to a language model of dogmatism.Ertel sought to capture dogmatism linguistically,though a small lexicon of words that correspondwith high-level concepts like certainty and compro-mise (1985).
McKenny then used this dictionary torelate dogmatism to argument quality in student es-says (2005).
Our work expands on this approach,applying supervised models based on a broader setof linguistic categories to identify dogmatism in text.Other researchers have studied topics similar todogmatism, such as signals of cognitive style inright-wing political thought (Van Hiel et al, 2010),the language used by trolls on social media (Chenget al, 2015), or what makes for impartial languageon twitter (Zafar et al, 2016).
A similar flavor ofwork has examined linguistic models that capturepoliteness (Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al, 2013),deception (Ott et al, 2011), and authority (Gilbert,2012).
We took inspiration from these models whenconstructing the feature sets in our work.Finally, while we examine what makes an opin-ion dogmatic, other work has pushed further into thestructure of arguments, for example classifying theirjustifications (Hasan and Ng, 2014), or what makesan argument likely to win (Tan et al, 2016).
Our697model may allow future researchers to probe thesequestions more deeply.7 ConclusionWe have constructed the first corpus of social me-dia posts annotated with dogmatism scores, allowingus to explore linguistic features of dogmatism andbuild a predictive model that analyzes new content.We apply this model to Reddit, where we discoverbehavioral predictors of dogmatism and topical pat-terns in the comments of dogmatic users.Could we use this computational model to helpusers shed their dogmatic beliefs?
Looking forward,our work makes possible new avenues for encourag-ing pro-social behavior in online communities.ReferencesJustin Cheng, Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, andJure Leskovec.
2015.
Antisocial behavior inonline discussion communities.
arXiv preprintarXiv:1504.00680.Kenneth Ward Church and Patrick Hanks.
1990.
Wordassociation norms, mutual information, and lexicogra-phy.
Computational linguistics, 16(1):22?29.H Michael Crowson.
2009.
Does the dog scale measuredogmatism?
another look at construct validity.
TheJournal of social psychology, 149(3):365?383.Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, Moritz Sudhof, DanJurafsky, Jure Leskovec, and Christopher Potts.
2013.A computational approach to politeness with applica-tion to social factors.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1306.6078.Shayan Doroudi, Ece Kamar, Emma Brunskill, and EricHorvitz.
2016.
Toward a learning science for complexcrowdsourcing tasks.
In Proceedings of the 2016 CHIConference on Human Factors in Computing Systems,pages 2623?2634.
ACM.Mohammed El-Nawawy and Shawn Powers.
2010.
Al-jazeera english a conciliatory medium in a conflict-driven environment?
Global Media and Communi-cation, 6(1):61?84.S Ertel.
1985.
Content analysis: An alternative approachto open and closed minds.
The High School Journal,68(4):229?240.Eric Gilbert.
2012.
Phrases that signal workplace hierar-chy.
In Proceedings of the ACM 2012 conference onComputer Supported Cooperative Work, pages 1037?1046.
ACM.Daniel J Gurney, Shelley McKeown, Jamie Churchyard,and Neil Howlett.
2013.
Believe it or not: Explor-ing the relationship between dogmatism and opennesswithin non-religious samples.
Personality and Indi-vidual Differences, 55(8):936?940.Kazi Saidul Hasan and Vincent Ng.
2014.
Why are youtaking this stance?
identifying and classifying reasonsin ideological debates.
In EMNLP, pages 751?762.Andrew F Hayes and Klaus Krippendorff.
2007.
An-swering the call for a standard reliability measure forcoding data.
Communication methods and measures,1(1):77?89.Margaret C Lohman.
2010.
An unexamined triumvi-rate: dogmatism, problem solving, and hrd.
HumanResource Development Review.Matthew M Martin, Sydney M Staggers, and Carolyn MAnderson.
2011.
The relationships between cogni-tive flexibility with dogmatism, intellectual flexibil-ity, preference for consistency, and self-compassion.Communication Research Reports, 28(3):275?280.Michael McCluskey and Jay Hmielowski.
2012.
Opin-ion expression during social conflict: Comparing on-line reader comments and letters to the editor.
Jour-nalism, 13(3):303?319.John McKenny.
2005.
Content analysis of dogmatismcompared with corpus analysis of epistemic stance instudent essays.
Information Design Journal & Docu-ment Design, 13(1).Myle Ott, Yejin Choi, Claire Cardie, and Jeffrey T Han-cock.
2011.
Finding deceptive opinion spam by anystretch of the imagination.
In Proceedings of the 49thAnnual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics: Human Language Technologies-Volume1, pages 309?319.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.English Oxford Dictionary.
2016.
Definition of dogma-tism.James W Pennebaker and Martha E Francis.
1996.
Cog-nitive, emotional, and language processes in disclo-sure.
Cognition & Emotion, 10(6):601?626.James W Pennebaker, Martha E Francis, and Roger JBooth.
2001.
Linguistic inquiry and word count:Liwc 2001.
Mahway: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates,71:2001.James W Pennebaker.
2011.
The secret life of pronouns.New Scientist, 211(2828):42?45.Milton Rokeach.
1954.
The nature and meaning of dog-matism.Sachiyo M Shearman and Timothy R Levine.
2006.Dogmatism updated: A scale revision and validation.Communication Quarterly, 54(3):275?291.Victor S Sheng, Foster Provost, and Panagiotis G Ipeiro-tis.
2008.
Get another label?
improving data qual-ity and data mining using multiple, noisy labelers.Proceedings of the 14th ACM SIGKDD internationalconference on Knowledge discovery and data mining,pages 614?622.698Nathan Swink.
2011.
Dogmatism and moral convictionin individuals: Injustice for all.Chenhao Tan, Vlad Niculae, Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, and Lillian Lee.
2016.
Winningarguments: Interaction dynamics and persuasionstrategies in good-faith online discussions.
InProceedings of WWW.Alain Van Hiel, Emma Onraet, and Sarah De Pauw.2010.
The relationship between social-cultural atti-tudes and behavioral measures of cognitive style: Ameta-analytic integration of studies.
Journal of per-sonality, 78(6):1765?1800.Markus Wolf, Jan Sedway, Cynthia M Bulik, and HansKordy.
2007.
Linguistic analyses of natural writtenlanguage: Unobtrusive assessment of cognitive stylein eating disorders.
International Journal of EatingDisorders, 40(8):711?717.Kyung-Hyan Yoo and Ulrike Gretzel.
2009.
Compari-son of deceptive and truthful travel reviews.
Informa-tion and communication technologies in tourism 2009,pages 37?47.Muhammad Bilal Zafar, Krishna P Gummadi, and Cris-tian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil.
2016.
Message impar-tiality in social media discussions.
In Tenth Interna-tional AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media.699
